TEMPLE HONORS FATHER HESBURGH
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, G.S.G., president of
Notre Dame, delivered the principal address and received
an honorary Doctor of Laws degree at Temple Univer-
sity’s 76th annual commencement in June.
Earlier last spring Father Hesburgh received honor-
ary degrees from the University of California at Los
Angeles and Gonzaga University, Spokane, Wash. He
was the commencement speaker at Gonzaga and delivered
the baccalaureate sermon at Indiana University where
he previously received an honorary degree.
PEACE CORPS VOLUNTEERS CITED
The University of Notre Dame ranks seventh in the
nation among large universities in producing Peace Corps
volunteers, according to an announcement by R. Sargent
Shriver, Peace Corps director.
Shriver said the rate of Peace Corps enrollment at
Notre Dame is 11.9 volunteers per each 1,000 students.
Stanford University in California was tops in the large
university division with 22.3 per 1,000. It has contributed
240 volunteers to the Peace Corps.
Notre Dame is the only Catholic school among the
top ten in either the large university or small college cate-
gories, according to the figures released by Shriver.
Among small schools, Swarthmore College in Pennsyl-
vania ranked first, with 40.2 volunteers for each 1,000
students.
HOLD 12TH LOCAL SUPERIORS INSTITUTE
The 12th annual Theological Institute for Local Su-
periors, attracted 1,700 nuns to the University of Notre
Dame campus August 9-14, according to Rev. Albert L.
Schlitzer, C.S.G., head of the theology department and
Institute chairman.
Father Schlitzer said “Redemption in the Modern
World” was the general theme of the Institute which
was sponsored by the theology department in coopera-
tion with the Conference of Major Superiors of Women
in the United States and the Sister Formation Con-
ference.
MICROFILM GRANT RECEIVED
The University of Notre Dame has received a $21,-
660 grant from the U. S. General Services Administration
for the microfilm publication of certain documentary
sources of national significance in the University Archives.
Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., Notre Dame ar-	■
chivist, said the collections to be microfilmed as part of a
two-year project include the letters and papers of Orestes
A. Brownson, the 19th-century publicist and critic; the
papers of General William Tecumseh Sherman of Civil	।
War fame; the family correspondence of Thomas Ewing,	|
U. S. Senator from Ohio and onetime Secretary of the
Interior; and the early letters of Edward N. Hurley, the	j
builder of the “Bridge to France” in World War I.
THREE GET SLOAN AWARDS
Three students who enrolled as freshmen at the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame this September have been awarded
four-year scholarships by the Alfred P. Sloan Founda-
tion of New York City.
The scholarship winners are David L. Coulter, Dear-	I
born, Mich.; John E. Dougherty, Mount Holly, N.J.; and
Edward J. Filusch, Cincinnati, Ohio. Each Sloan Scholar
receives a stipend ranging from $200 to $2,400 per year	,*<
depending on his need for assistance.	Ij
FATHER HESBURGH RE-ELECTED
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, G.S.C., president of
the University of Notre Dame, participated in meetings	1
in Tokyo of the International Federation of Catholic	I
Universities and the International Association of Uni-
versities.
Father Hesburgh was re-elected president of the
Federation after presiding at its general conference and	(
administrative board meetings.
RADIATION DATA CENTER BEGUN	i
The establishment of a Radiation Chemistry Data	J
Center at the University of Notre Dame’s Radiation	j
Laboratory was announced by Prof. Milton Burton, di-	|
rector of the campus research organization.	j
The Center, which will serve as an international focal	|
point for the collection, storage, evaluation and dis-
semination of radiation chemistry data, is sponsored
jointly by the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission and the
National Bureau of Standards.
GABRIEL SPEAKS, WRITES BOOK
Professor A. L. Gabriel, Director of the Mediaeval
Institute, University of Notre Dame, was invited by the
Southeastern Institute of Medieval and Renaissance
Studies to deliver a lecture at the University of North
Carolina, Chapel Hill, in August on the Iconography of
Mediaeval Universities. A specialist of the history of
(Continued on page 18)
Mwi
• EDITOR: JOHN H. JANOWSKI
2 NOTRE DAME
NOTRE DAME VOL. 18, No. 3, FALL, 1965
Published quarterly by the University of Notre
Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second
class matter May 10, 1928, at Post Office at Notre
Dame, Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.
1
than
Nuns representing more
Sister
IHII
30 orders were on hand for the
Lewis Hall dedication and
posed with Mrs. Lewis and
Father Hesburgh prior to the
luncheon. Above: Father Hes-
0

LEWIS HALL
dedicated
On August 10, dedication ceremonies
were held on campus for the University’s
newest residence hall, Lewis Hall. The
gift of the Frank J. Lewis Foundation,
Chicago, the new four-story building is
a center of scholarship where 143 Sisters
from all over the nation live, study and
exchange ideas on Catholic education.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.,
University President, was the celebrant of
the dedication Mass in the Lewis Hall
chapel. Following the Mass, Father Hes-
burgh blessed the building and tours of
the facility were given to the dedication
guests by resident nuns.
At the dedication luncheon held at the
Morris Inn on campus, Father Hesburgh
expressed the University’s thanks to the
Lewis Foundation and particularly Mrs.
Julia Lewis, widow of the late Frank J.
Lewis, who also spoke. And speaking on
behalf of the teaching nuns of America
was Sister Mary Ann Ida, B.V.M., presi-
dent of Mundelein College, Chicago.
Thus, Lewis Hall became the 18th res-
idence hall on the Notre Dame campus
— a truly unconventional convent for
the development of better teaching Sisters
throughout our country.
burgh, Mrs. Lewis, and
Mary Ann Ida.
r
Ik
Facilities in
Lewis Hall include a kitchen on each floor
where the nuns can prepare
individual meals.
A basement laundry room features
washers,
dryers and
c
homily during
Father Hesburgh delivers
the
and
meditation.
*
A nun studies in
while the chapel
to come and go
the quiet of a private room (left)
(below) is designed to permit Sisters
without disturbing others in prayer
the dedication Mass held in the Lewis Hall
chapel August 10.
W
II
LEWIS HALL
Sister Grace Durkin, O.P.
Lewis on behalf of the
(below)
residents
presents a gift to Mrs.
of Lewis Hall during
the dedication luncheon. The entrance of Lewis Hall
(right) faces a new mall north of the Administration
Building.

A main floor lounge, with comfortable chairs, books
and periodicals, opens off the courtyard and overlooks
the lake.

ironing equipment for the convenience of the student nuns.


CATHOLIC SCHOOL STUDY
NEARING COMPLETION
The following interview with Reginald A. Neuwien,
Director of the Catholic Education Study currently under
way at the University of Notre Dame, is intended to
present personal insights of the survey, rather than a
formal report. The complete study will be published
later this year by Harper & Row.—Editor.
In 1962, the Carnegie Corporation made a grant
to the University of Notre Dan^e to conduct a nation-
wide survey of Catholic elementary and secondary ed-
ucation. Mr. Neuwien, as director of this study, can
you tell us about the status of the study today?
At this time, we have completed all of our field work,
processed all of our data and for the better part of the
past year we have been writing our materials for publi-
cation. This would mean that we have spent approxi-
mately two years in our collection and processing of
data and approximately one year in writing. All of our
data was processed at the Computing Center on campus
and all of our offices are in the Center. We have been
there since January, 1963.
But wasn’t some of the data you obtained impossible
to analyze with the computer?
Yes, there are certain kinds of data that do not lend
themselves to computer or data processing, such as our
firsthand views of schools and visitations and con-
ferences with the various people connected with Cath-
olic education. And this is a sort of subjective type of
data processing which lends itself to statistical analysis.
But, basically, if it hadn’t been for the facility of the
computer, it would have been impossible to do this kind
of a study. We would have had to try something else
if we had been working 10 or 15 years ago.
Our principal effort was to get statistical information
about each of the Catholic elementary schools, each of
the Catholic secondary schools, and each of the indi-
vidual staff members throughout the nation.
In the course of this gigantic project, approximately
how many persons were contacted and what was the
response of the schools for the data you requested?
As you know, there are 145 dioceses in the United
5
States and approximately 11,000 elementary schools,
approximately 2,350 secondary schools, and more than
165,000 teachers working in Catholic schools. We made
a contact with each of these schools and asked for infor-
mation and we also contacted each of the individual
staff members in each of the schools. This took quite
a while for accumulation. We had returns from approxi-
mately 92% of the elementary teachers, and about 84%
of the secondary teachers. And we had about the same
return percentagewise from the schools.
Now each of these responses was transferred, accord-
ing to our specification, to punch cards. And all this
information cross-tabulated and cross-referenced. So, our
quantity of information was mountainous.
In addition to gathering all this material, and tab-
ulating and processing it to get a national picture, we
are able to focus on any particular aspect of Catholic
education in the U.S. or any geographical area.
What about the second part of the study?
The second part of the study was designed to see the
schools at work and a group of 13 dioceses were chosen
because they were representative of all the 145. Now
this was not a scientific sample, it was representative.
And we have large dioceses, small ones, we have rural
dioceses, metropolitan dioceses, and the ones that have
both high and low potential of financial support. We
also have geographic distribution. In these studies we
made personal visits and conducted depth interviews.
How many schools in these 13 dioceses participated
in this “depth-interviewing”?
We had 322 schools in the 13 dioceses, 104 secondary
schools and 218 elementary schools.
What were some of the areas covered by these
“depth interviews”?
One was called the inventory of religious outcomes.
This was done because Catholic schools have to justify
themselves. If they just do everything public schools do,
then there is no reason for their existence, and if
the difference is only that they teach religion, then we
can do that other ways, too. We could send children
to public schools and have CCD classes. But there are
spiritual influences which go far beyond the formal
instruction in religion. We assume this, otherwise they
wouldn’t be in existence. And so we look for three
things: One was to determine what kind of religious
knowledge and understanding the students in these schools
were getting, not just the catechism answers, but the
kind of understanding they have. Second, we wanted
to find out what kind of attitudes — social attitudes,
religious attitudes, vocational attitudes and so forth, did
the students in Catholic schools have. This will be part
of this report. And the third part was a pupil opinionaire,
where we were asking the same young people what
were their opinions about their experiences in Catholic
schools. Then we questionnaired 32,000 parents to get
their opinions about* Catholic schools.
In advance of the complete printed study, can you
point out any significant findings that support or re-
ject previously held opinions about Catholic schools?
Yes, I believe I can. From much literature and from
many stated opinions, I’ve read them and heard them,
there has been a pretty strong feeling on the part of large
numbers of people, that one of the characteristics of
Catholic schools is their monolithic type structure. The
closer we get to look at our Catholic schools, the more
Education Study Director Neuwien (left) discusses plans with school officials.
6 NOTRE DAME
we reject this as a concept. And this is the reason. There
are 145 dioceses in the United States and there is no pro-
gram of 145 dioceses getting together or 145 heads of
the dioceses getting together and making decisions. There
is a National Catholic Welfare Conference, but even
that used to be called the National Catholic Welfare
Council. There is no indication that there is any real
common school structure decided upon, guided and
molded to one design. We don’t find this. We find that
there is a great deal of difference between the schools.
Now the greatest differences occur within the dioceses.
Within an individual diocese there is a much greater dif-
ference than you would find from one diocese to another.
And there is more commonality, however, between the
elementary schools in a diocese. Even here it is not a
strict and strongly guided program. And there are many
reasons for this. For example, the influences of the in-
dividual religious communities are probably among the
greatest influences that operate on the schools. And indi-
vidual religious communities are pretty strong in their
individual differences. But as they work in the schools
there is very little interaction between religious communi-
ties. They develop their own outlooks and their own
training programs for their teachers. Now at the sec-
ondary school level, a very large number of secondary
schools, as a matter of fact, better than one third of all
the Catholic secondary schools are, what are referred
to as private schools. They are owned and operated by
individual religious communities. And so they have their
own method of approach. Then you have parish high
schools, and they have the local control at the parish
levels. Then you have the diocesan school, which is owned,
operated and controlled by the diocese. And so you have
this great wide difference between the schools, their
character and also theii' general operation. What I am
saying here is that there isn’t some mold into which all
of the ingredients are poured and out comes a Catholic
school. And in many ways, this is very healthy. But in
some other ways it is not productive, because there could
probably be many of the very fine things that are going
on in one group of schools which might leak over into
another group of schools. But because of this rank indi-
viduality that doesn’t happen too often.
What, in your opinion, is the biggest problem facing
the Catholic schools today?
Well, the biggest problem that we have identified and
as I try to process our findings, I have become pretty well
convinced that our major problem is this: In the
United States presently, less than 50% of all Catholic
youngsters are in Catholic schools. The problem is re-
lated to that. A total of 52% of the eligible Catholic chil-
dren were in Catholic elementary schools in the ’62-’63
school year. And 32% of the eligible secondary school
Catholic children were in Catholic schools in that year.
That adds up to 46%, if you put them all together.
If Catholic schools are good, and I believe they are, they
should be available for all children. Now, of the children
who are not in Catholic schools, a large number of them
are not able to be in Catholic schools. Not because their
parents or they make the decision not to attend, but they
just can’t get in. There are just not enough facilities to
provide the Catholic educational opportunity for all
Catholic youths who seek this opportunity.
Every month, or so the Wranglers., Notre Dame’s pres-
tigious undergraduate discussion group, get together in a
dismal room atop the Law Building and, well, wrangle.
In the early ’fifties one of the best of them was an English
major named John Elson, who could turn a critical phrase
about T. S. Eliot as smoothly as most scholars do in
learned journals.
Elson graduated from Notre Dame in 1953. Since then
he has demonstrated that his talent for shaping prose
extends to broader horizons: reporting a Michigan State-
Notre Dame football game for Sports Illustrated, writing
a dozen cover stories for Time, (including President Ken-
nedy, Barry Goldwrater, Douglas Dillon, the Archbishop
of Canterbury', Karl Barth, Cardinal Cushing, Methodist
Bishop Gerald Kennedy, Pope John and Pope Paul), and,
for the past three and a half years, staffing Time's religion
desk.
lu that spot Elson is the managing and writing mem-
ber of a many-faceted team. Example: during a Monday
story conference last fall, Elson and Senior Editor William
Forbis decide to give the week’s major play to a develop-
ment at the Vatican Council’s third session. Elson sifts a
stack of reporting provided by Israel Shenker, of Time's
Rome bureau, and Michael Novak, a consultant for Time
during the session’s first month. Elson queries bureaus in
Bonn and Paris for more information and sends Monica
Dowdall, his talented researcher, to the morgue to verify
details. After a winnowing and checking process that may
take a couple days (or a couple hours, if there’s a rush)
Elson writes the piece, then consults with Forbis.
No matter how much time is spent on a story, there is
always the pressure of a Saturday deadline. For six
straight days Elson worked till midnight on the Cushing
cover story. Yet he pumped out Pope John’s obituary
cover in eight hours. He did the same with Pope Paul’s
election, which took place on a Friday. At his typewriter
Saturday morning, he finished the job by early evening.
Though most of his writing is hard news with an inter-
pretive slant, Elson gets an intellectual kick out of doing
deeper stuff. “I like to do trends and ideas,” he says,
“stories that may have no perceptible impact on the pub-
lic for years.” As an example he cites a May 7 piece on
“Process Theology,” an abstruse movement gaining ground
among some Protestant thinkers.
On major stories. Elson tries to do a share of the re-
porting. He interviewed Cardinal Cushing and Bishop
Kennedy personally and flew to Switzerland to spend an
afternoon with Karl Barth. Elson recalls that the great
Protestant theologian offered him a cigar, observing that
one could discern a theologian’s point of view by what he
smokes: liberals, cigarettes; conservatives, pipes; Barth-
ians, cigars. Elson accepted the cigar; doesn’t say whether
he smoked it.
8 NOTRE DAME
Time,
Newsweek,
Religion Desks...
Time's John Elson: a cigar from Karl Barth
I
Newsweek’s Kenneth Woodward: thinking like a Presbyterian
are manned
by Notre Dame
graduates
This article appealed in the August, 1965, issue of
THE SIGN, a monthly magazine published by the Pas-
sionist Fathers, Union City, N.J., and is reprinted with
permission. The author was Michael Long, associate edi-
tor of THE SIGN, a 1954 graduate of Notre Dame. Our
thanks to THE SIGN and Mr. Long.—Editor.
A little over a year ago, Kenneth Woodward shucked
his job at the North Omaha Sun and headed to
New York City for a trial shot at Newsweek’s religion
editor’s post. Six weeks later, he had the job. It was a
big step from tall corn to tall buildings, but in his twenty-
nine years Woodward has done his share of stepping
around.
After getting a B.A. in English from Notre Dame in
1957, he studied briefly at the University of Michigan
and State University of Iowa (English') but soon suc-
cumbed to a desire to see Europe. He and his wife.
Betty, enrolled at the University of Strasbourg in 1959
and took time out from studies to visit places of interest.
After the birth of a daughter, Woodward taught part-time
in the University of Maryland overseas extension program
to shore up family finances. Back in the United States in
1960, he sat on the rim of the Rochester Post-Bulletin
copy desk foi' six months and contributed egghead book
reviews on Maritain and Rilke to the Davenport Mes-
3 sen ger.
| He later joined the staff of the Sun newspapers, a
cr string of five tabloid weeklies in Omaha. Editor of one.
w he was also reporter, photographer, deskman, and some-
t time proofreader. Aftei' a three-week checkup on shady
8- real-estate shenanigans in Omaha’s Negro ghetto. Wood-
2 ward documented his findings in a series of articles that
f gave him his first sniff of journalistic combat. “You had a
sense of fighting something,” he recalls. “It was crusading
journalism.” The Urban League gave him an award for
the series. Woodward also initiated “Pioneer Day,” an
annual hoedown at which Omahans celebrate their fron-
tier past. His articles and book reviews began appearing in
The Nation, Christian Century, Critic, Commonweal, and
Perspectives.
After one year at Newsweek, Woodward has barely
had time to hang up his hat, but he looks back on some
notable stories, including Pope Paul’s India trip, inter-
views with Episcopal Bishop John Hines and Greek
Orthodox prelate Archbishop lakovos, and a solid report-
ing job on Norman Vincent Peale’s election to New York’s
Protestant Council.
After a Woodward story fathomed the intricacies of a
Presbyterian church document, an elated Presbyterian
historian phoned congratulations. “When I write about
Presbyterians, I tiy to think like a Presbyterian,” he ex-
plains, adding, “I wrote that one twice.”
Woodward views his weekly task as a “difficult” brand
of journalism. “It’s a constant search to find the illuminat-
ing metaphor, to give a sense of the human feeling of the
tbing.” Alluding to space limitations, he adds, “You’re
writing on the head of a pin.”
A recent example of Woodward’s pin-writing is on
view in his sensitive obituary last month of Martin Buber.
In it he distilled the Jewish thinker's complex “I-It,”
“I-Thou” intuition into 101 readable words.
9
DEANS’ P'JTLOOK...
College of Arts and Letters
The Liberal Arts College opened in
September, 1965, with a new department,
Psychology, presenting its first courses to
undergraduates. Dr. John Santos, recently
co-director of the Program in Reality
Testing at the Menninger Foundation, is
the acting head of this new department.
In the fall of 1966 a major sequence of
psychology courses will be available, and
graduate work in this discipline will be in
full swing by 1970.
The Art department has this year as
Artist-in-residence, Enrique Echeverria, a
highly respected Mexico City painter. The
following school year William Congdon,
distinguished American painter living in
Italy will be in residence at Notre Dame.
The faculty of Arts and Letters, made
up always of male members during the
regular semesters, happily welcomed two
women scholars to its ranks in September.
One is Sister Suzanne Kelly, O.S.B., who
will teach the history of science in the
General Program of Liberal Education.
Sister Suzanne is a native of Tulsa who
received her doctorate at the University
of Oklahoma. The other new faculty
member is Miss Joan Massingberd-Ford,
a doctor of scriptural studies, who joined
the department of Theology. This young
English scholar taught last year at the
University of Makerere in Uganda.
The College of Arts and Letters began
the school year with several administra-
tive changes. Devere T. Plunkett, assistant
dean in the College since 1953, was ap-
pointed associate dean. Robert J. Waddick
of the department of testing and guidance
was named assistant dean in the College.
Father Ernan McMullin, a member of
the department of Philosophy since 1954,
is now head of the department. The En-
glish department is also under new leader-
ship this year, with Ernest E. Sandeen as-
suming the headship of that department
faculty.
College of Business Administration
Alumni and friends of Notre Dame
will be happy to know of the University’s
decision to embark on graduate work in
the area of Administration. The time-
table calls for opening of the graduate di-
vision in the College of Business Adminis-
tration in the Fall of 1967 with a two-
year program for some fifty students work-
ing toward the Master of Business Admin-
istration degree. It is the plan of the
College to provide Master’s level work
in both business and public administra-
Norman R. Gay
College of Engineering
Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C.
College of Arts and Letters
Frederick D. Rossini
College of Science
tion while continuing undergraduate work,
and to begin graduate business adminis-
tration in the Fall of 1967 and to add
graduate public administration in the Fall
of 1969. It is the intention of the Dean to
visit a number of cities during the next
year in order to acquaint alumni and
friends with the plans and needs of the
new graduate operations of the College of
Business Administration.
The year ahead has a number of ex-
citing plans in the College. The American
Association of Collegiate Schools of Busi-
ness, Mid-Continent East Section, will
hold its annual meetings on campus on
October 14-15. The New York World
Trade Center will present a program on
October 28 for students of international
finance and marketing; Trade Center Di-
rector Guy Tozzoli will be the principal
speaker. The O’Hara Memorial Lecture
Series of 1965-66 will include addresses
by J. E. Wolfe, National Railway Labor
Conference, January 13; Lee Loevinger,
Federal Communications Commissioner,
February 17; Isaiah Frank, Johns Hopkins
International Economics Professor, March
14; Robert C. Weaver, Administrator,
Housing and Home Finance Agency, (date
to be announced).
There are three College academic pro-
motions, effective September, 1965. Dean
Murphy and Dr. John R. Malone, As-
sistant Dean, have been promoted to the
rank of Professor and Dr. 0. Joseph Se-
quin promoted to the rank of Associate
Professor.
Dean Murphy has been appointed to
the Export Expansion Council by Secre-
tary of Commerce Connor and has been
named to the Undergraduate Accredita-
tion Committee of the American Associa-
tion of Collegiate Schools of Business. Dr.
Edgar Crane, author of a new book on
Marketing Communications (Wiley, 1965),
spent the summer in a Marketing Work-
shop at the University of California Berke-
ley. Other new books published by College
faculty during the past three months in-
clude: Accounting for Management Pian-
ning and Control (McGraw-Hill, 1965),
by Dr. Richard M. Lynch; Managerial
Cost Control (Richard D. Irwin, 1965),
by Dr. James M. Fremgen.
Professor Wesley C. Bender went on a
study tour of EEG and EFTA countries
of Europe during the summer. A quan-
titative-methods-in-research workshop is
planned for September 7-17 for members
of the faculty of the College. It will be
conducted by Dr. John J. Kennedy, Head
10 NOTRE DAME

of the Marketing Department, and has
been opened by Dean Murphy to inter-
ested faculty from social and life sciences.
New faculty members who will begin
their work in the College in September,
1965, include Assistant Professors James S.
Beadle (Continuing Education and Busi-
ness Organization and Management);
James H. Cho (Finance and Business
Economics); Charles L. Olson (Business
Organization and Management); and B.
Man Yoon (Business Organization and
Management); and Instructor James L.
Donahue (Business Organization and
Management).
College of Science
The University and its College of
Science will conclude the Centennial of
Science at Notre Dame in December,
1965. The observance has been a very
fruitful one for the Faculty and students,
through lectures, exhibits, and the Spe-
cial University Convocation at which
twelve eminent world scientists received
honorary degrees. We hope that the next
century will be as fruitful in science for
Notre Dame as the past one. This will
call for continued efforts to recruit able
Faculty, to enroll capable science-moti-
vated students, and to provide adequate
facilities for teaching and research.
New members of the teaching Faculty
of the College of Science beginning in
September, 1965, include the following:
In the Department of Biology, Assistant
Professors Harald C. Esch and Thomas
C. Griffing; in the Department of Chem-
istry, Assistant Professor Marino Martinez-
Carrion; in the Department of Mathe-
matics Instructors Roger F. Haberman,
Stanley B. Hanson, Arnold A. Johnson,
Jesse E. Moore, and Maurice C. Rayer,
Assistant Professor Mario Borelli, As-
sociate Professors Abraham Goetz and
Gerhard J. Neubauer (visiting), and
Professors Hans Grauert (visiting), Wolf-
gang Walter (visiting), and George W.
Whaples (visiting, from February 1,
1966); in the Department of Physics, In-
structors Alfred M. Buoncristiani (to
January 31, 1966), Neal M. Cason, Imee
J. D’Haenens (from February 1, 1966),
John J. Matese, and Ronald T. Torger-
son, Assistant Professors Nripendra Biswas
and Eugene R. Marshalek, and Associate
Professor William D. McGlinn.
Additions to the full-time Professional
Research Staff in the College of Science
include the following: In the Department
of Physics, John B. Annable as Associate
Research Scientist; in the Lobund Labo-
ratory, Bandaru S. Reddy as Research
Scientist in Biology; in the Radiation
Laboratory, Frank D. Feiock as Associate
Research Scientist in Physics, William P.
Hauser and Alberta B. Ross as Associate
Research Scientists in Chemistry, Susanne
R. Norton as Associate Research Scientist
in Computing Science, Margaret E. Scan-
lan as Associate Research Scientist in
Mathematics, and Kaoru Iguchi and Aso-
kendu Mozumder as Visiting Research
Scientists in Chemistry.
College of Engineering
The College of Engineering welcomes
a number of new faculty members joining
the University during the fall semester of
the academic year 1965-66. In the De-
partment of Civil Engineering: Associate
Professor Keith A. Yarborough, Assistant
Professor Wayne F. Echelberger, and Mr.
Ramon S. LaRusso, an Instructor. In the
Department of Electrical Engineering: As-
sistant Professor Garabet J. Gabriel. In
the Department of Engineering Science:
Assistant Professors Raymond W. Flumer-
felt, and Raymond M. Brach. In the De-
partment of Mechanical Engineering: As-
sistant Professors John W. Lucey, Jerome
L. Novotny and Victor Nee. In the De-
partment of Metallurgical Engineering:
Mr. McIntyre R. Louthan, an Instructor.
Also beginning his first full academic year
with the College will be Dr. Thomas J.
Mueller, an Associate Professor in the
Department of Aero-Space Engineering,
who joined the faculty last April and who
had been a senior research scientist with
the United Aircraft Corporation.
During Dr. Saxe’s absence for a year’s
leave in England, Dr. Bruce B. Schimming
will be acting head of the Department of
Civil Engineering for the coming aca-
demic year. Also on leave during 1965-66
will be Dr. Ruey-wen Liu, Associate Pro-
fessor of Electrical Engineering who will
be a visiting faculty member at the Uni-
versity of California at Berkeley.
A College committee composed of Pro-
fessors Massey, Carberry, Seeler and Allen
have proposed the participation of the
undergraduate Engineering students in the
collegiate seminar offered by the College
of Arts and Letters and plans are being
made to implement such a program. An-
other committee composed of Professors
Schimming, Crandall and Timko are
working on an interdisciplinary program
in the area of Engineering Systems Design.
Last June, a Conference on “Sintering
and Related Phenomena” was held under
the sponsorship of the U.S. Army Re-
search Office and Dr. George G. Kuczyn-
ski was general chairman of the program.
Participants and lecturers included repre-
sentatives from Universities in France,
11


“. . . the pursuit
of excellence ..
DEANS’ OUTLOOK...
England, Germany and Japan, as well as
representatives from American universi-
ties, industry and government. Also during
the past summer, 28 students completed
the Summer Institute in Mechanics of
Engineering Structures for College Teach-
ers sponsored by the National Science
Foundation under the direction of Profes-
sors Saxe, Henry and Schimming.
Research and graduate programs have
increased rapidly in the College and be-
ginning with the next academic year, all
of the engineering departments have been
authorized to grant the Ph.D. degree.
From a previous level of awarding one or
two Ph.D.’s per year, the College of En-
gineering awarded ten such degrees at the
June commencement exercises.
Graduate School
In 1965 a total of 596 advanced de-
grees were awarded by the University in
the Graduate School. Of these, 88 were
doctorates and 508 were Master’s degrees
of various kinds. It might be of interest
to note that in the six years, 1945 to 1950
inclusive, a total of 87 Ph.D.’s were
awarded.
Approximately 70% of the Master’s
degrees in 1965 were awarded at the
August graduation. The enrollment in the
Summer School in the past few years
has stabilized at approximately 3200, of
which about 2750 are graduate students
and 450 are undergraduates at various
levels in the different colleges. Approxi-
mately 300 of the graduate students of
the academic year remain during the
summer to carry on their courses or re-
search. Most of the other graduate stu-
dents of the summer session keep return-
ing for five summers until they have
earned the Master’s degree. Thus, the
Summer School is largely a graduate
operation concentrated at the level be-
tween the Bachelor’s degree and the Mas-
ter’s.
In 1965, 14 Sisters were awarded the
Ph.D. In the coming years the number of
Sisters receiving the doctorate will in-
crease because the attractive residence
facilities for Sisters provided by the new
Lewis Hall, dedicated on August 10, will
be an additional reason for Sisters to
choose to study at Notre Dame. This new
hall can accommodate 143. Until Lewis
Hall was opened, we had been able to
provide rooms for only 75 on campus
during the school year.
The old Notre Dame Convent complex
has not fallen into disuse. Renamed
Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S C.
Graduate School
Joseph O'Meara, Jr.
Law School
William M. Burke
Freshman Year of Studies
Thomas P. Bergin
Continuing Education
Brownson Hall and refurbished, it now
provides room for student Priests and
Brothers as well as some badly needed
apartments for priest faculty members
who are not Holy Cross Fathers.
Law School
The Harvard University Press published
Professor Noonan’s book entitled “Con-
traception: A History of Its Treatment
by the Catholic Theologians and Can-
onists.” This is making and will make
a profound impression. Time’s review of
the book includes the following:
“. . . during the worldwide debate on
[birth control] few Catholics have had the
chance to examine the full record of what
Popes and theologians of other centuries
really said about birth control. Now they
have. In his book Notre Dame Law Pro-
fessor John T. Noonan, Jr. . . . has pro-
duced a magisterially documented history
of church teaching on birth control, from
Genesis to genetics. Noonan conclusively
proves that Catholic doctrine has con-
sistently anathematized contraception —
yet also suggests that there are good rea-
sons why the traditional stand, can change.”
As a result of the publication of his
book Professor Noonan was appointed a
consultant to the Papal Commission on
Population and attended the Commission’s
meeting in Rome last spring.
Professor Noonan has now been
awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship to
make a study of matrimonial causes in
the courts of the Roman Catholic Church.
This, of course, will involve canon law.
Apparently for the first time, however,
the subject will be approached from the
procedural point of view. That is, Profes-
sor Noonan will be asking whether the
parties to these causes receive what
Anglo-American lawyers call procedural
due process. He will have to spend several
months each year in Rome, working at
the Vatican.
Mr. Edward W. Kuhn of Memphis,
newly elected president of the American
Bar Association, will be the featured
speaker at the Law Honors Banquet next
spring. Mr. Kuhn’s visit will mark the
ninth consecutive year in which the Law
Honors Banquet has been addressed by
the president of the American Bar As-
sociation.
Each year for a number of years there
has been a symposium at The Law School
dealing with a highly controversial prob-
lem of urgent national concern. The sym-
posium next spring will be devoted to one
or other of two subjects, either “Law and
Poverty” or “The Crisis in Crime and
Crime Control.”
12
NOTRE DAME
Reverend William M. Lewers, C.S.C.
has joined the faculty of the Law School.
Before entering the seminary Father
Lewers taught at the University of Ken-
tucky College of Law and at the Uni-
versity of Illinois College of Law. His
field of special interest is Torts and he
is teaching that subject.
Professor Thomas L. Shaffer attended
a five-week workshop on the law of
Trusts at New York University Law
School. The workshop was open only to
those especially invited.
As enrollment rises the need for
scholarships will intensify. For the aca-
demic year 1965-66 scholarships awarded
and accepted totaled almost $100,000.
Nothing could be more obvious than that
substantially more will be required as the
enrollment grows to the expected maxi-
mum of 260-275. Modifications are being
made in the Law Building this summer
to enable it to accommodate comfortably
that many students. Moreover, and most
important, steps are being taken to pro-
vide adequate fight and comfortable fur-
niture in the library reading room.
Freshman Year of Studies
At the end of each academic year, one
studies figures and statistics to try to de-
termine weaknesses and strengths in a
program such as ours. It was a bit en-
couraging to review the three-year results
of the Freshman Year of Studies Program
regarding the performances of our better
students.
In 1961-62, when freshmen were mem-
bers of individual colleges, the total num-
ber of students who made the Dean’s List
at the end of the Freshman Year was 81.
The total number of students who made
B averages, but did not quite make the
Dean’s List, was 100.
In 1962-63, the Freshman Year of
Studies Office became operative. The fol-
lowing figures reveal the steady growth
over the past three years in the number
of our Dean’s List students and also in the
number of our B to Dean’s List students.
DEAN’S LIST
1962-63	1963-64	1964-65
114	183	233
B AVERAGE TO DEAN’S LIST
1962-63	1963-64	1964-65
124	133	156
Perhaps some reasons for this jump in
the number of Dean’s List students within
a period of four years from 81 to 233
would be: the establishment of the Fresh-
man Office itself, effectiveness of its coun-
seling system, the emphasis on excellent
classroom teaching, and the facilities of
the new Library and the general overall
emphasis on the pursuit of excellence by
the students themselves.
Certainly one of our constant responsi-
bilities in the Freshman Office is to con-
tinually encourage our freshmen to reach
their highest level of academic excellence.
Continuing Education
An important aspect of the new pro-
gram in Continuing Education at Notre
Dame involves our participation in the
significant associations devoted to adult
education. Through such associations the
University will be able to share its pro-
grams with others and, at the same time,
receive some of the benefits accruing in
the work conducted at other institutions.
As the responsible officer for our program,
I felt it important that we seek institu-
tional membership in some of these orga-
nizations. I am happy to report that within
the past few months the University of
Notre Dame has been admitted to mem-
bership in (a.) The National University
Extension Association, (b.) The Adult
Education Association of the United
States and (c.) The International Con-
gress of University Adult Education.
One of the early rewards of member-
ship in the International Congress was the
opportunity it presented for the Univer-
sity to participate in the First World
Conference which was held June '20-26,
just outside Copenhagen, Demnark. This
World Conference was focused upon en-
couraging and activating universities
around the world to assume their proper
responsibility for carrying on effective
programs in Continuing Education.
In addition to the International Con-
gress meeting, I represented Father Hes-
burgh at the dedication of Wroxton Col-
lege at Oxford, England, and attended a
three-day International Conference on
Higher Education.
Following this, I participated in a series
of discussions held at Unesco House in
Paris concerning the wrays and means
through which University Continuing
Education programs might assist in the
important work of UNESCO. Needless
to say, the experience and rewards of this
European trip and the conference work
associated with it were most worthwhile
and will continue to provide new ideas
and contacts for the future work to be
undertaken within the Center.
There is some very good news to be re-
ported concerning the Center itself. In
March of this year I was indeed fortunate
in being able to secure the addition of
(Continued on page 17)
13
. •
to
M

fr ' . ' -	—-.
UWVBSTV or NOTO
a Universtiy
Press comes



*
* rzazmv> hmm
In an age where education has obtained the most
prominent place in the thinking of men, and where higher
education is developing at vertiginous speed, one kind
of publishing, for decades considered the long-haired
stepchild of the book industry, has recently become most
influential: the university press has come into its own.
The university as publisher has its precedents in the
two venerable institutions, Oxford and Cambridge, whose
imprint, well-nigh 500 years old, is still influencing in-
tellectual life all over the world. It was only during the
end of the last century that American universities began
to consider the importance of an imprint of their own,
partly to provide an outlet for faculty research publica-
tion, partly for matters of prestige. Thus Cornell Uni-
versity was the first to use books under their imprint,
soon followed by Chicago (which in 1964 celebrated its
75th anniversary as a publisher) and Johns Hopkins.
In the first decade of the present century Harvard, Prince-
ton and Yale followed suit, imitated by close to two
dozen universities, among them quite a few land-grant
colleges in the Midwest, the University of New Mexico
and, of course, the famous West Coast establishments,
the University of California and Stanford University.
14 NOTRE DAME
The outstanding characteristic of a university press
is the fact that its imprint is guarded by a board of
scholars. It is they who pass on every manuscript sub-
mitted and their only concern is with quality. The ques-
tion they ask is: “Does this book make a definitive con-
tribution to scholarship?” Here lies the main difference
between the academic and the commercial publisher:
the latter who by force has to have the profit motive
in mind, must think of salability and distribution, where-
as the academic publisher must consider quality first,
even to financial detriment, because it is the obligation
of a university to further scholarship and make its results
known.
Shortly before World War II as the older, established
presses strove to become more professional academic pub-
lishers, more and more university officials thought the
time ripe to provide a publishing outlet for the research
conducted on their campuses. But it was the tremendous
upsurge in educational concerns after World War II
which brought a specific kind of development. The com-
mercial publishers, pressed by mounting costs of manu-
facture and distribution, could no longer afford the short-
run, nonfiction book interesting only to a narrow circle
of specialists, or even the book of wider appeal, unless
it was sure to sell so many thousand copies. This was
the great opportunity for the scholarly publishers to
widen their scope and take a more important part in the
intellectual life of the nation.
Up to that time the “typical university press book”
was not much different from a monograph, and often
published, i.e., printed and presented, without any fan-
fare and few people knowing about it. The “typical
university press book” was very highly specialized, hard
to find, abhorred by booksellers because it had to be
Emily Schossberger, director of the University of Notre Dame Press
for the past five years and author of this article, discusses a manu-
script with an author.
1


special-ordered which involved extra expenses, and usual-
ly sold at a “short” or textbook discount. And it was
expensive. But when opportunity knocked — in the form
of increased interest in the fruits of learning — and uni-
versity presses were faced with the challenge of reaching
wider audiences, they went to work on their own pro-
fessionalization, by sharpening their skills and taking on
the techniques of the industry.
No longer could a press director be a professor of
English who did his directing on a part-time avocational
basis; no longer could a graduate student think of editing
as a job to increase his meager earnings. University
presses, going far afield, are now staffed with specialists
in many subjects and people who are knowledgeable in
the many techniques of successfully reaching the reading
public for which a book is intended, as well as technicians
thoroughly acquainted with the graphic arts and pro-
duction.
The last two decades have seen a tremendous de-
I-

velopment of the academic presses, skilled in distribution,
advertising and sales. Statistics now prove that one out
of every ten books published in the nation comes from
a university press. Publishing lists from eight to 135 books
a year are no longer rare (see Chicago, California and
Columbia), but the bulk of university press publishing
— by the 65 members of the Association of American
University Presses — is still done in the 25-50 books-a-
year range. Among the more than 2,000 titles published
by them during 1964, many have won awards, such as
a Pulitzer Prize or National Book Award, or even have
been bestsellers [The Rise of the West, Chicago; Man,
Golem and God, M.I.T.).
N.D. PRESS STARTS !N 1946

When the authorities at the University of Notre
Dame in 1946 gave their consent to the establishing of
a University Press, they did not yet have these lofty ideals
in mind. As a matter of fact, the first book to bear the
University Press imprint was a Football Review. Then,
the business office for the student publications — Dome,
Juggler, and Scholastic, were located with those of the
Press. The distribution of symposia and lectures in bi-
ology and sciences were published at irregular intervals
and sold by the Press. Some of the publications of priests
were brought out, notably PhD dissertations, as were
paperbacks of two of Fr. John O’Brien’s most famous
convert-making books. Other efforts are the famous
liturgy series of Fr. Matthis, founder of the Notre Dame
Summer Liturgy School and the most respectable series
of publications in Mediaeval Studies. Each of these series
was edited
ments and
them.
Among
books, was
and controlled by separate people or depart-
the Press
the first
the series
acted solely as a service agency for

of the modern University Press
of International Studies under the
editorship of Waldemar Gurian, then Stephen Kertesz,
which reflected the strength of the University proper in
the field of international relations. The series, for a
while subsidized by a Rockefeller Foundation grant, has
now reached 27 different titles and is self-supporting, that
is, every new book is underwritten by the Press which
hopefully looks towards sales to recoup the out-of-pocket
investment within the space of three years. For the
nature of University Press publishing lies in the slow-
moving book which costs much initially to produce and
advertise, but which should go on selling over many years,
because its content does not lose interest (often increases
interest with the years), because it was selected as a
“book that endures.”
In 1960, tire University Administration decided to
have the Notre Dame Press reorganized and start pub-
lishing on a more solid basis, with a definite program
for the future. It was then that the “professionalization”
of the Notre Dame Press was begun.
MANY CHANGES BY 1961
By July, 1961, with a professional editor and a staff of
five, the Press started the serious business of “list build-
ing” and at the same time, of “projecting the image of
Notre Dame” as an institution where academic excellence
was the order of the day. Though Notre Dame is widely
known for its accomplishments in science and engineering,
tile University Press publication list limits itself to the
humanities and the social sciences — the perennial step-
children of publishing. Slowly and painfully, the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame Press emerged from obscure be-
ginnings into a full-fledged publishing house, under very
competitive conditions. One of the necessities for such
an undertaking was to assemble a core of independent
sales representatives. They would then be able to sell to
book wholesalers and retailers, who would stock and
handle University Press titles. To achieve this purpose
and make carrying our “line” more attractive for com-
mission salesmen, the Press launched its Quality Paper-
back Series in the Fall of 1961 and has at present 55
titles on its list, many of them issued as original paper-
backs.
From a list of about 70 books in 1961, the Press now
has grown to over 220 active titles on its list. The titles’
range of interest is significant for the University as a
whole and span such fields as Art and Architecture,
Biography, Education, History, Literature, Mediaeval
Studies, Mathematics, Philosophy, Political Science, Psy-
chology and, of course, Religion and Theology. (There
are also several series, such as Social Studies, Interna-
tional Studies, Liturgy Studies, etc.)
From the start, the accent has been on the word
“University” in our title. The concern has been with
scholarly books, but Notre Dame is still, above all, a
Catholic University. Therefore, the intent of the Press
ft
TI!WX"


15
Updating the University Press' production board which governs all
editorial and mechanical work on a book are John Ehmann, editor, and
Harriet Kroll, assistant editor.
has been to present the most respectable scholarship of
Catholic scholars, thus giving the lie to a contention,
often heard in the recent years, that Catholic scholarship
is inferior. In this effort, Notre Dame is joining forces
with the other Catholic University Presses in an associa-
tion. The others are: Loyola of Chicago, Fordham in
New York, Duquesne in Pittsburgh, Catholic in Wash-
ington, and the Canadian member, Presses Universitaires
de Laval in Quebec.
As a Catholic university press, it is small wonder that
some of our best-received books show a definite Catholic
slant. This is the case especially in the Catechetics books,
where Notre Dame is leading in the “new” approach
to teaching the Christian Doctrine. A book by the Aus-
trian Jesuit, Joseph Hofinger is one of the leading and
best-selling titles on the list, as is the paperback culled
from it, Imparting the Christian Message. This year
the Press has initiated a pocketbook-size series on Con-
temporary Catechetics under the editorship of the famous
German psychologist, Fr. Joseph Goldbrunner, who, to-
gether with the profound French theologian, Rev. Louis
Bouyer, is one of the most renowned authors on the
Notre Dame list.
GREAT SUCCESS IN TWO FIELDS
Among the fields into which the University of Notre
Dame Press has ventured with great success are English
Literature and Philosophy. With the publication of two
Chaucer anthologies in paperback: An Anthology of
Criticism of the Canterbury Tales and another on Troilus
and Creseyde, NDP paperbacks entered the classroom
as required reading of many colleges and universities.
But such books as The Confidante in Henry James, by
Sister M. Sharp; An Anthology of Beowulf Criticism, by
Lewis Nicholson of the ND faculty; The Human Meta-
phor, by Elizabeth Sewell; Faith and Fiction, by Philip
Stratford; The Curious Frame, by John E. Hardy of the
ND faculty; The Victorian Age in Literature, by G. K.
Chesterton, have spread the reputation of Notre Dame
as a university publisher far and wide, not only in the
United States, but overseas where the Press maintains
sales representation all over the world. Beginning Sep-
tember 1, 1965, the University of Notre Dame Press,
together with seven other university presses, will be
represented by their own sales office in London, for the
British Commonwealth, and our books will carry the
imprint: Notre Dame, Indiana, and London.
Another strong field for the Press is Philosophy and,
of course, Theology. In the latter, the Press is about to
present to American scholars the work of a profound
Dutch theologian, Piet Schooneberg, S.J., whose orig-
inal thinking has earned him a tremendous reputation
in Holland. His Man in Sin will be a Fall, 1965, publi-
cation. A new Introduction to College Theology takes
into account the most recent scholarship in Bible exegesis,
and the liturgy series is steadily being enhanced by pub-
lications such as Proclaiming God’s Message: A Study
in the Theology of Teaching, by the Roman Jesuit
Father, Domenico Grasso, Fall, 1965, and Pastoral Psy-
chology, by Goldbrunner, for Spring, 1966.
A recent publication, Philosophical Trends in the
Contemporary World, presents the thinking of the dean
of Italian philosophers on many of the lesser known
philosophical trends of our times. The Concept of Mat-
ter, edited by Fr. E. McMullin, was the first and success-
ful foray into the field of philosophy of science being
followed up by such books as Modeling of Mind, by
Crosson and Sayre of our faculty, and Recognition, by
Kenneth Sayre, soon to be followed with a Symposium
on Cybernetics and Society. In the same field, but in a
lighter vein, the paperback by Jean Guitton, the famous
French philosopher and lay observer at Vatican II, A
Student’s Guide to Intellectual Work is winning many
friends for the Press. Finally we want to mention a
slightly different and more popular venture, a series of
24 short character sketches of Men Who Make the Coun-
cil, under the general editorship of Michael Novak,
among which the booklet on Albert Cardinal Meyer, the
late and mourned Archbishop of Chicago, written by
George N. Shuster, is one of the most outstanding. This
series was issued to acquaint the general reading public
with the background and ideas of some of the men who
during the four sessions of Vatican II will have influenced
the making of Church history for decades to come.
But with all this growth during the past four years,
the financial worries of carrying out the mandate of a
true university press — to publish the book that endures
— and yet not overstraining the university budget, have
been weighing heavily on the minds of those who direct
the fortunes of the Press. Six years ago the Ford Founda-
tion accorded grants to help the scholarly presses. But
these grants were very restricted and hardly worked out
to more than half a dozen books which otherwise would
not have been published because of the inability to get
the investment back. University of Notre Dame Press,
though a nonprofit business, still has to see that income
and assets do not lag behind the cash output from its
mother institution, the University of Notre Dame.
Hence, we make a constant search for subsidies or
grants on such books where investment never stands a
chance to be recouped by sales, books which nevertheless
deserve publishing as a service to scholarship. For, to-
gether with the other university presses, the University
of Notre Dame Press has come of age, because it pub-
lishes the books which are beyond the ages.
16 NOTRE DAME
Hofman	Raphael
During the summer, several appointments were an-
nounced in the University’s faculty and administration
by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, G.S.G., Notre Dame’s
president.
Professor Ernest E. Sandeen was named head of the
English department. Sandeen, who is a poet and a spe-
cialist in American literature, succeeds Prof. Alvan S.
Ryan who is relinquishing the post to become chairman
of humanities and professor of English at the University
of Massachusetts-Boston.
Prof. Thomas F. Broden, Jr., has been appointed
assistant dean of the Notre Dame Law School. Broden,
a native of Indianapolis, Ind., succeeds Prof. John J.
Broderick, Jr., assistant dean since 1949, who will devote
his full time to teaching.
Rev. Joseph B. Simons, G.S.C., was named dean of
students succeeding Rev. Leonard A. Collins, G.S.G.,
who received a new assignment in New Orleans, La.
Father Simons had been assistant dean of students in the
1964-65 school year.
In the department of mathematics, Professor O.
Timothy O’Meara was named head succeeding Professor
Thomas E. Stewart, recently named associate vice presi-
dent for academic affairs.
Father Hesburgh also announced that Professor
Wilhelm Stoll will assume the chairmanship of the
mathematics department for a one-and-a-half-year period
beginning June 16, 1966. He also named Professor George
Kolettis as assistant head of the department for a three-
year period.
The appointment of Dr. Emil T. Hofman as assistant
dean of the College of Science came in July. Hofman,
who has been assistant head of the department of
chemistry will relinquish that post to assume his new
administrative duties, but he will continue to teach and
direct several activities and programs in the chemistry
department.
In announcing Hofman’s appointment, Father Hes-
burgh said Professors Lawrence Baldinger and Bernard
Waldman will continue to serve as associate deans in the
College of Science.
Rev. Ernan McMullin was named head of the de-
partment of philosophy at Notre Dame. He succeeds
Dr. Harry A. Nielsen, who will devote his full time to
teaching. Father McMullin is a native of Donegal, Ire-
land and joined the University faculty in 1954. He is a
specialist in the philosophy of science and during the
past academic year served as a visiting professor at the
University of Minnesota.
In September, Father Hesburgh named Brother
Raphael Wilson, G.S.G., as director of admissions. A
specialist in radiation physiology at Notre Dame since
1959, Brother Raphael has been serving as assistant head
of the biology department, director of its teacher training
program and a member of the Lobund Laboratory staff.
As Notre Dame’s admissions officer, Brother Raphael
succeeds Rev. James Moran, G.S.G., who has been on
sick leave since 1963. Father Moran has been named
a counselor in the office of the Freshman Year of
Studies. Rev. Joseph Hoffman, G.S.C., who has been
serving as acting admissions director, was recently named
University chaplain.	'
Simons	Sandeen
Deans' Outlook
(Continued from page 13)
two very capable staff members. Dr. John Reinbold joined
the staff as an Assistant Professor, as did Dr. James
Beadle.
At the present time, we have some thirty conferences
scheduled for 1966, several for 1967 and a few others
projected as far as 1969. The following is just a sample
of the types and varieties of programs we will be pre-
senting the first year:
Marx and the Western world
Theological Issues of Vatican II
o
Indiana Personnel and Guidance Association
Conference on Stereochemistry
International Conference on Nonlinear Systems
17


‘ -------- '
president of
C.S.C., [left], executive
vice
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce,

the University of Notre Dame, is presented a Military Proficiency Award
by Col. John J. Stephens, professor of military science at the University.
The award was won by the Notre Dame Army ROTC students at Fort
Riley, Kansas, in competition with 37 other schools from the Midwest.
If is presented annually to the institution attaining the highest average
scores in military subjects at summer camp. Another Notre Dame award
was presented to Cadet Michael C. Rush of Notre Dame by the Associa-
tion of the U. S. Army for receiving the highest rating at summer camp
in competition with more than 1500 cadets.
Create Artificial Intelligence Institute
The creation of the Philosophic Institute for Artificial
Intelligence at the University of Notre Dame was an-
nounced recently by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, G.S.G.,
University president.
The new institute will have a twofold purpose, he
said, “interpreting advances in computer technology and
applied science generally to the humanities and, on the
other hand, providing the traditional insights of the
humanities for the advancement of computing science.”
Father Hesburgh said the institute will be inter-
disciplinary in its approach, involving specialists in
philosophy, computing science, the biological sciences, the
several branches of engineering and the fine arts. It will
be “research-oriented,” he said, and will offer graduate-
level instruction.
He named Dr. Kenneth M. Sayre, assistant professor
of philosophy, as director of the new Notre Dame in-
stitute, and Dr. Frederick Crosson, head of the Uni-

—
versity’s General Program of Liberal Education, as its
associate director.
Population Study Begun
Notre Dame will sponsor a series of regional popula-
tion conferences and in-depth studies of certain popula-
tion problems with the support of a $100,000 grant an-
nounced by The Ford Foundation.
Dr. George N. Shuster, assistant to the president and
director of Notre Dame’s Center for the Study of Man
in Contemporary Society, said three conferences are
planned in the Southwest, New England and South
Atlantic area. The projected research, he said, will deal
with a number of population issues which have theological
or moral impheations. Dr. William Liu, recently ap-
pointed as the Center’s director of population studies, will
administer the two-year program which will include a
number of case studies of population dynamics in de-
veloping countries.
The regional meetings will continue and extend a
series of discussions on population problems and family
life held at Notre Dame in September, 1963, February,	J
1964, and March, 1965. The sessions were co-sponsored	•
by the Cana Conference of Chicago with the support of
The Ford Foundation. Participants included theologians,
philosophers, sociologists, demographers and other spe-
cialists in marriage and family life representing the laity
and a cross section of religious communities. Shuster is
editor of the proceedings of the sessions including the
forthcoming third volume, The Problem of Population:
Educational Considerations (University of Notre Dame
Press).
Shuster said the core of participants for the regional
population conference will be drawn from those who
attended the earlier campus sessions. The sites and dates
of the regional meetings are to be announced later.
Notre Dame News
(Continued from page 2)
mediaeval universities, Professor Gabriel is author of a
new book written entirely in Latin, The History of the
English-German Nation at the University of Paris in the
Fifteenth Century (1425-1494). The volume deals with
the political and intellectual history of the English, Irish,
Scotch, German, Swedish, Hungarian and Polish stu-
dents grouped in a so-called Nation at Paris.
CAMPUS HOSTS CFM CONFAB
More than 1,200 married couples from the United
States, Canada, Mexico and 20 other countries attended
the 14th conference of the Christian Family Movement
at the University of Notre Dame this summer.
The conference, addressed by theologians, educators
and specialists in marriage and family life from through-
out the world, launched the GFM’s 1965-66 program
which is focused on international life and the creative
use of leisure time.
CATHOLIC BIBLICAL GROUP MEETS
The Catholic Biblical Association of America held
its 28th general meeting at the University of Notre Dame
August 31-September 2.
Members of the hierarchy and biblical scholars from
throughout the country participated in the sessions at
the Morris Inn on the campus. The program for the
three-day meeting included the presentation of 16
scholarly papers, a business session and a banquet.
BENDER TO CAL TECH
Dr. Harvey A. Bender, associate professor of biology
at the University of Notre Dame, has been granted a
leave of absence to serve as Gosney Research Fellow in
the division of biology at the California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, during the 1965-66 school year.
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1960,
Bender has specialized in physiological and develop-	,
mental genetics and histochemistry. His research has
been supported by the National Institutes of Health and
the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission.
ABRAM JOINS LAW COUNCIL
Morris B. Abram, prominent New York City attorney (
who practiced law in Atlanta until 1962, has been ap-
pointed to the Notre Dame Law School Advisory Council. |
He is U. S. representative to the United Nations Human	।
Rights Commission and national president of the Ameri-	j
can Jewish Committee. He is a member of the New ;
t
I
18 NOTRE DAME
York law firm of Paul, Weiss, Riflfind, Wharton and
Garrison and formerly was a partner in the firm of
Heyman, Abram and Young in Atlanta.
NOTRE DAME TO HELP PERUVIAN SCHOOL
The University of Notre Dame has announced a
three-year program in which it will assist in the academic
and administrative development of the Pontifical Catholic
University of Peru. It is Notre Dame’s first venture in
inter-university cooperation involving a Latin American
institution.
Dr. George N. Shuster, assistant to the president of
Notre Dame, said a $577,700 Ford Foundation grant, to
be administered by the two universities, will enable the
Lima institution “to develop its central administration,
rebuild its curricular offerings, especially in the natural
sciences, and establish an office of university development.”
GIBBONS MEETS FRESHMEN
James V. Gibbons, assistant director of public rela-
tions at Notre Dame, spoke at gatherings for campus-
bound freshmen and their parents in ten cities September
1-15. Sponsored by the local alumni clubs, the affairs
were held in Boston, Pittsburgh, Newark, Asbury Park
(N. J.), New York City, Louisville, Indianapolis, Chi-
cago, Cleveland and Minneapolis.
FATHER LADEWSKI TOURS EUROPE
Rev. Roman S. Ladewski, C.S.G., assistant dean of
the Freshman Year of Studies at the University of Notre
Dame, served as chaplain for members of the National
Federation of Catholic College Students on a seven-
week tour of Europe this summer.
SINTERING CONFERENCE HELD
A three-day International Conference on Sintering
and Related Phenomena was held at the University of
Notre Dame in June.
More than 125 college faculty members and govern-
ment research personnel from the United States, Europe,
Asia, South America and Australia, attended the sessions
in the Notre Dame Memorial Library auditorium.
TWO WIN REGENTS SCHOLARSHIPS
Two June, 1965, graduates, who completed their pre-
medical studies at the University of Notre Dame, have
been awarded four-year Regents Scholarships by the
University of California.
They are James J. Murphy, III, Phoenix, Ariz., and
James C. Tedford, Burbank, Calif. They will study at
the University’s Los Angeles Medical Center.
SIX N.I.H. GRANTS TOTAL $153,240
The National Institutes of Health recently awarded
six grants totaling $153,240 to faculty members at the
University of Notre Dame, it was announced by Francis
X. Bradley, Jr., research administrator for the University.
McALPIN AT MILLSAPS CONFERENCE
Dr. Archie J. McAlpin, associate professor of geology
at the University of Notre Dame, participated in a Na-
tional Science Foundation-Millsaps College Summer Con-
ference on the Geology of the Mississippi Sound at the
Gulf Coast Research Laboratory in Ocean Springs, Miss.
UNIVERSITY PRESS PUBLISHES AURORA
The first printed edition of Peter Riga’s Aurora^ a
mediaeval verse commentary on the Bible, has been
published here by the University of Notre Dame Press.
Rev. Paul E. Beichner, G.S.C., dean of the Notre
Dame Graduate School and a professor in the Univer-
sity’s Mediaeval Institute and English department, is the
editor of the two-volume work which was one of the
most frequently copied books of the Middle Ages.
SEVEN N.S.F. GRANTS AWARDED
The University of Notre Dame received grants total-
ing $526,140 from the National Science Foundation to
support seven summer teachers’ institutes held at the
University June 21 to August 7.
MONTANA GOES TO EUROPE
Prof. Frank Montana, head of the architecture de-
partment at the University of Notre Dame, spent the
summer in Europe, where he visited several schools of
architecture, including schools in London, England, and
Karlsruhe and Stuttgart, Germany.
Prof. Montana also represented the University at the
meeting of the Union Internationale de Architects in
Paris, France, July 4-10.
FATHER O’CONNELL DIES
Rev. John P. O’Connell, C.S.C., 59, formerly a mem-
ber of the Holy Cross Fathers’ Mission Band and the
University of Notre Dame faculty, died June 21 in Holy
Cross House on the campus.
A native of Indianapolis, Ind., Father O’Connell was
a 1930 graduate of the University and held the degree
of Master of Science in Social Work from the Catholic
University of America.
Father O’Connell served as a member of the Mission
Band, preaching retreats and missions, from 1952 to
1964. He taught at Notre Dame from 1936 to 1939 and
again during the 1946-47 school year.
ELIEL GETS $40,000 GRANT
Dr. Ernest L. Eliel, professor and head of the chem-
istry department at the University of Notre Dame, has
been awarded a $40,000 unrestricted grant for estab-
lished scientists conducting fundamental research in the
petroleum field. The grant, which covers a four-year
period, was made by the Petroleum Research Fund of
the American Chemical Society.
BAND NAMED OUTSTANDING
The University of Notre Dame concert band was
named the 1965 Outstanding Catholic College Band in
a recent national competition sponsored by the National
Catholic Bandmasters’ Association. The University band
is under the direction of Robert F. O’Brien.
ARCHITECTURE STUDENTS SELECTED
Two senior architecture students at the University of
Notre Dame have been selected to participate in a sum-
mer European Exchange Program sponsored by the Asso-
ciation of Collegiate Schools of Architecture.
Francis D. Ching of Honolulu, Hawaii, and John
Dobie of Jamaica Plain, Mass., spent the summer in
Europe working in the offices of European architects.
19
Mr. Eduard J. J- Tracey, Jr.
PoO. Box 22
State College Pa. 16801
A Century of Science at Notre Dame was highlighted during its third
quarter, 1915-1940, by a rapid expansion of the physical plant of the Col-
lege of Science.
In 1918, Chemistry Hall was built, and Father Nieuwland became pro-
fessor of Chemistry. In 1924 Science Hall was enlarged to accommodate a
rapidly increasing student body pursuing scientific courses.
Another "first" for Notre Dame Science occurred in 1930, when Pro-
fessor James A. Reyniers started germfree life research on the campus. As
a result of this start, Notre Dame's famed Lobund Laboratory today is one
of the leading research organizations in the world.
In 1933, the Cushing Hall of Engineering was completed, and a cur-
riculum in Metallurgical Engineering was begun. In 1935, research in
nuclear physics was initiated at Notre Dame, with the construction of a
high-voltage electrostatic generator, more commonly called an "atom-
smasher."
Also in 1935, a curriculum in Aeronautical Engineering was started,
and Professor Frank N. M. Brown began his pioneer experiments on the
visualization of aerodynamic flow.
Finally, in 1937 the Wenninger-Kirsch Biology Building was com-
pleted.
Thus, another 25 years of Science at Notre Dame saw many changes —
each important in making Science at Notre Dame a dynamic and integral
part of the University's academic world.
“EXTENDING THE TRADITION OF GREAT TEACHING”
As members of the Notre Dome family, the year 1965 is very im-
portant to each of us. It begins the second half of the University’s
$20,000,000 program to strengthen the areas of faculty development,
new academic programs and student aid. If also calls for the construction
of a new Athletic and Convocation Center and two undergraduate resi-
dence halls.
if you have not already participated in this program to help build an
even better Notre Dame, please contact the office below for additional
information about the part you can play. There is no obligation, of course.
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION
P.O. BOX 555
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556