THREE FACULTY MEMBERS AT BROOKHAVEN
Three Notre Dame faculty members visited the
Atomic Energy Commission’s accelerator facility at the
Brookhaven National Laboratory, Long Island, N.Y., in
July to conduct experiments in particle physics as part
of a research program under a National Science Foun-
dation grant.
Dr. V. Paul Kenney, associate professor of physics,
and Dr. William D. Shepherd and Dr. Ivan Derado,
assistant professors of physics, have been awarded a grant
of $137,200 by the National Science Foundation to sup-
port a program of particle physics experiments at Notre
Dame.
FATHERS MULCAIRE AND BACHOFER DIE
Death came to two Holy Cross priests during the
summer months. Rev. Cletus S. Bachofer, C.S.C., 51,
professor of biology at Notre Dame, died on August 30 at
St. Mary’s Hospital, Rochester, Minn., and Rev. Michael
A. Mulcaire, C.S.C., 70, former vice president of the
University, passed away September 10 at Holy Cross
House on campus.
Notre Dame alumni and friends throughout the na-
tion join the University in mourning the loss of these
two dedicated priests.
HOLD FINANCIAL INSTITUTE FOR RELIGIOUS
Approximately 50 priests, brothers and nuns, repre-
senting religious communities throughout the United
States and Canada, attended the fourth annual Summer
Institute for Religious on Financial Management and
Administration at Notre Dame in August.
According to Dr. Ray M. Powell, Institute director,
the enrollment was made up of treasurers and other
fiscal officers of Catholic congregations, schools, colleges,
hospitals and other institutions. He said they took a series
of four institute courses on Financial Management, Man-
agement Principles, Accounting Procedures and Cost
Analysis and Budgeting.
Conducting the Institute courses were five regular
faculty members of the College of Business Administra-
tion. In addition to Powell, they were Dr. Adam S.
Arnold, Dr. Salvatore J. Bulla, Dr. James N. Fremgen
and Dr. Bernard J. Kilbride.
TWO SPEAK AT NON-METALLIC INSTITUTE
The Summer Institute on the Science of Non-Metallic
Materials held at the University of Notre Dame had two
guest lecturers for the final week of the Institute in July.
V. P. Puzinauskas, associate research engineer of the
Asphalt Institute at the University of Maryland, dis-
cussed “Asphaltic Materials” and Dr. George F. Pez-
dirtz, head of the spacecraft materials section, applied
materials and physics division, of NASA Langley Re-
search Center, Hampton, Va., lectured on “Develop-
ment and Uses of Non-Metallic Materials in the Space
Program.”
Dr. Pezdirtz, who has been with NASA since 1960,
was responsible for the ultrathin inorganic coating used
for the thermal control of the 135-foot diameter Echo
II passive communications balloon.
SUMMER COMMENCEMENT FOR 421
The University of Notre Dame awarded 375 graduate
and 46 undergraduate degrees at its summer commence-
ment exercises on August 1st. More than half the degree
recipients were nuns representing religious communities
throughout the country.
Dr. Robert W. Strickler, head of the University’s
department of education, was the principal speaker at
the outdoor exercises held at the Grotto of Our Lady
of Lourdes on the campus. The degrees were conferred
by Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice presi-
dent of Notre Dame.
START BUILDING CONTINUING EDUCATION CENTER
Construction began in September on a new Center
for Continuing Education at the University of Notre
Dame. Situated at the entrance to the campus opposite
the Morris Inn, the adult education facility is being
erected with a $1,543,000 grant from the W. K. Kellogg
Foundation, Battle Creek, Michigan.
A University spokesman said the two-story, buff brick
building is scheduled for completion in September, 1965.
Its major components will include a lobby and registra-
tion area, an auditorium seating 350-400 people, a series
of seminar, conference or meeting rooms, a library and
exhibition area, audio-visual facilities, limited food serv-
ice, and offices and quarters for visiting professors and
research personnel.
GRADUATE WORK FOR 10 ND ENSIGNS
Of 71 newly commissioned ensigns selected by the
U.S. Navy for graduate study, ten are 1964 graduates of
the University of Notre Dame.
According to a Navy spokesman, the 71 officers bound
(Continued on page 18)
• EDITOR: JOHN H. JANOWSKI
NOTRE DAME VOL. 17, No. 4, FALL, 1964
Published quarterly by the University of Notre
Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second
class matter May 10, 1928, at Post Office at Notre
Dame, Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.
2 NOTRE DAME


f
4
I
I
I
... For God, Country, and Notre Dame
Father Hesburgh
Receives Nation’s
Highest Award
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh., C.S.C., president of
the University of Notre Dame, was among 30 distin-
guished men and women who received the Presidential
Medal of Freedom at a White House ceremony on
Sept. 14.
President Johnson made the presentation in the East
Room in the presence of members of the Supreme Court
and the Cabinet, the leadership of the Congress, and
other key executive branch officials. A White House
luncheon honoring the medal recipients followed the
presentation ceremony. They were also honored at a
State Department reception in the evening, sponsored by
the Distinguished Civilian Service Awards Board.
The gold Presidential Medal of Freedom is the
highest civilian honor the President of the United States
can bestow for service in peacetime. It is given to a
person who has made “exceptionally meritorious contri-
butions to the security or national interest of the United
States, to world peace, to cultural or other significant
public or private endeavors.”
Father Hesburgh came to the Washington ceremony
from Europe where he was attending the Conference
on the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy in Geneva and
the annual meeting of the International Atomic Energy
Agency in Vienna. Joining him at the White House ex-
ercises was his mother, Mrs. Theodore B. Hesburgh,
Syracuse, N. Y., and a sister, Mrs. Robert O’Neill,
Cazenovia, N. Y.
Other Freedom Medal winners who joined Father
Hesburgh in this year’s presentations were:
Former Secretary of State DEAN ACHESON
DR. DETLEV BRONK, president, Rockefeller Institute for
Medical Research
AARON COPLAND, composer and conductor
Associated Press Photo
Father Hesburgh after presenting the
President at the Sept. 14 White House
President Johnson congratulates
Freedom Medal to Notre Dame's
ceremonies
ssnsssns?'
WILLIAM de KOONING, the abstract-impressionist painter
WALT DISNEY, the motion picture producer
J. FRANK DOBIE, author of books on the folklore of the
Southwest
DR. LENA EDWARDS, obstetrician
T. S. ELIOT, the poet and playwright
ALFRED LUNT and LYNN FONTANNE of the American
stage
DR. JOHN W. GARDNER, president, Carnegie Corporation
of New York
CLARENCE L. JOHNSON, vice president, Lockheed Air-
craft Co. and designer of the U-2 reconnaissance
plane
FREDERICK R. KAPPEL, chairman of the American Tele-
phone and Telegraph Co.
MISS HELEN KELLER, lecturer and author
3
JOHN L. LEWIS, president emeritus of the United Mine
Workers
WALTER LIPPMANN, columnist and author
RALPH E. McGILL, publisher and columnist
SAMUEL ELIOT MORISON, Harvard historian
LEWIS MUMFORD, authority on architecture and civic
planning
EDWARD R. MURROW, the veteran commentator and
former USIA director
REINHOLD NIEBUHR, Protestant theologian
MISS LEONTYNE PRICE of the Metropolitan Opera
A. PHILIP RANDOLPH, president of the Brotherhood of
Sleeping Car Porters and a civil rights leader
CARL SANDBURG, the poet and biographer of Lincoln
JOHN STEINBECK, the novelist
Mr. I. A. O’Shaughnessy and Father Hesburgh have a private audience
with Pope Paul VI.
DR. HELEN B. TAUSSIG, professor of pediatrics at the
Johns Hopkins University
REP. CARL VINSON, retiring after fifty years in Congress
THOMAS J. WATSON, president of International Busi-
ness Machines Corp.
DR. PAUL DUDLEY WHITE, authority on heart disease
In a statement last July, President Johnson said:
‘"Each person we honor has previously honored his fel-
low man by setting for himself a standard of excellence
only he was able to achieve.
“Collectively, they have made man’s world safe, his
physical body more durable, his mind broader, his leisure
more delightful, his standard of living higher, and his
dignity important.
“They are creators; we are the beneficiaries.”
Pope Paul Asks Father Hesburgh
To Head Theology Research Study
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of
the University of Notre Dame, has been asked by Pope
Paul VI to assume background and research work on a
study center of comparative theology which the Pope
plans to have built in Jerusalem.
The center is intended to further the cause of Chris-
tian unity, a Vatican source said. The project was de-
scribed as a personal one on which Pope Paul has worked
since he met last January in the Holy Land with Ortho-
dox Patriarch Athenagoras.
o
The Vatican source said Christians would join with
non-Christians in religious studies at the proposed center
The project was seen as a major step toward Christian
unity as well as improved relations between Christianity
and other faiths.
The center would be involved in research into the
ABC RADIO NETWORK
TO AIR IRISH GAMES
The Notre Dame football squad will again be most
widely reported via radio and television, as the Amer-
ican Broadcasting Company will broadcast all Irish
games, and the National Broadcasting Company will
nationally televise the Notre Dame-Michigan State
game at Notre Dame, November 14.
Veteran announcer Jim Gibbons will team with
ex-lrish halfback and captain Jim Morse to handle
the ABC coverage of all Irish games — the 1964 sea-
son marks the 17th consecutive campaign that all
Notre Dame football games have been broadcast na-
tionally. Prior to that, certain Notre Dame games had
been broadcast nationally, dating back to the mid-
twenties.
The Notre Dame games will be sponsored by the
Schick Razor Company and B. F. Goodrich Company.
More than 200 radio stations in the United States
will report on the Notre Dame football season game
by game under the leadership of new head coach
Ara Parseghian.
Check your local radio listing for the times of all
Notre Dame games.
4 NOTRE DAME
comparative doctrines of the major religions, with special
focus on the Orthodox faith. Non-Christian scholars
would take part.
“The idea is that it should be staffed not only by
Roman Catholics but rather that there should be a cer-
tain openness to scholars of non-Christian faiths,” the
Vatican official said.
,	> r, «■

Phyllis McGinley Accepts Laetare Medal
In a July 30 private ceremony in her home at Weston, Conn., poet Phyllis
McGinley accepts the Laetare Medal for 1964 from Father Hesburgh and
Dr. George N. Shuster, assistant to the president of Notre Dame.


M
i.



0

V’v^
Sr


ll
^3



1




a
*
■
1
®gfir


9
3®
’■i

3WS



The following excerpts are from Father
Hesburgh’s address, “The Cultural and Educa-
tional Aspects of Development” delivered at the
Biennial Interfederal Assembly of Pax Romana.
— Editor.
Our final consideration concerns the con-
tribution of the university faculties of philos-
ophy and theology to the course of human
development on earth. Hitherto we have con-
sidered truths mainly of the temporal order
common to most universities and most uni-
versity people. These final considerations are
the special, though not exclusive, concern of
the Catholic intellectual, the Christian philos-
opher and theologian. This is our most impor-
tant contribution. Here man himself in his
deepest perspectives is at issue. Development
in this context must be relevant to man’s
nature and destiny, in eternity as well as in
time, for it is this total man who is both the
subject and the object of development. We
believe that especially in our day, when man
is so often at the mercy of sudden and
precipitous change, he needs more than ever
the inspiration and the guidance of philosophi-
cal and theological principles that transcend
the changes of time and space, that give order,
and meaning, and an eternal dimension of
understanding to the hopes and fluctuations
and the anguishes of the human situation. With-
out such principles, development lacks a spirit-
ual and moral dimension, and man is left
anchorless and adrift on a sea without shore
or harbor.
What are the great and changeless principles
and perspectives that philosophy and theology
offer to guide human development? One might
well begin with the basic principle of human
dignity, inherent and inalienable in man since
he receives it in his very nature as a creature
made in the image and likeness of the Eternal
God. Any plan for development which does
not respect human dignity is a bad plan what-
ever its beneficial immediate results in the
material order.
An important corollary of human dignity
is human equality. Just as no man is more
worthy of respect, as man, than any other man,
so too no man is more equal by nature than
any other man. If human equality means any-
thing, it means all that is implied in the
wonderful phrase — the right to life, liberty,
and the pursuit of happiness. This means
specifically the right to all that is necessary to
develop oneself as a human person. Negatively
it means that a person should not be used as
a mere tool, a means to someone else’s purposes.
This equality cannot be abridged by reason of
race, or religion, or nationality, or color, be-
cause it does not originate with these.
Man is a social person, so that his develop-
ment takes place in a social context. What is
true of his dignity and equality and freedom
as an individual person is likewise’true of him
as a member of society, the state exists for
him, not he for the state. And the state or
nation he creates to buttress his rights and
more easily fulfill his responsibilities to the
common good is free to determine by com-
posite will its own destiny. No state should be
made the tool of any other state — even in
the name of development.
We have seen how meaningless this human
dignity and equality are in much of the world
today, when so many millions of human per-
sons, living in what is euphemistically termed
the less-developed nations, suffer the greatest
human indignity and slavery by reason of their
blinding ignorance, debasing poverty, wasting
illness, wretched homelessness, and heartbreak-
ing hoplessness.
The Christian philosophers and theologians
— and all Catholic intellectuals should be
such to some extent — must bring the mes-
sage to all the world that when one man
suffers, all of us must suffer; when one man
is not free, the freedom of all is impaired;
when one man, however distant, undergoes
inhuman indignity, the human dignity of all
is debased. Each and all of us are members
of one family, at the highest level, members
of the Body of Christ, Our Lord. Development
of man and human society is not merely a
fad of our times, not merely a movement of
political or economic advantage, not a move
in the game of cold war, it is a duty demanded
by human nobility, Christian charity, and social
justice. To be unconcerned is to be inhuman
and unchristian. To be concerned only on the
material, social, political, economic, or legal
level is to forget the true roots of
personal
human dignity and equality, and the true
eternal destiny of man.
There is then a philosophical and
theologi-
cal, a moral and spiritual dimension, to de-
velopment. Novelists have written about man’s
inhumanity to man. Our task is to make of
our age a true work of man’s humanity to man
in the total dedication of our university re-
sources to this task: to create a new world on
earth, yet not oblivious of the world to come;
to create a new material human situation in
which man’s spiritual dignity and equality can
be a reality and not a frightful travesty.
Any development less than this would be a
truncated development unworthy of the high
inspiration and guidance to be expected of
university people. A university is interested
in all knowledge. If students of development
learn all else and are left devoid of the philo-
sdphical and theological dimensions of knowl-
edge, then we may expect some horrible new
wounds in the body of an already badly suf-
fering humanity.







^WjW'


Ba,
V



v'r
7


NOTRE
DAME
IN URBAN AMERICA	I	Zhe Necessity I	of Urban Study
► During a week-long cruise through the Aegean Sea
and meetings on the Greek Island of Delos last summer,
an outstanding group of men and women from 15 coun-
tries grappled with the problems of planning for a new
world. This conference was remarkable because it brought
together some of the world’s renowned figures in such
diverse fields as sociology, economics, anthropology, law,
urban planning, history, science, and engineering. Their
purpose was to point up and analyze the greatest danger
facing man today, barring nuclear war — that is, man’s
failure to adapt his urban environment to change.
In the ‘Declaration of Delos,'’ the participants, many
of whom are leaders in the academic world, were critical
of their own institutions for failing to lead the way in
meeting new problems of urban life. The Declaration
said: ‘Tn the universities the application of the basic
sciences to human welfare has been fragmented. They
have dealt with parts of man — his health, his nutrition,
his education — not with the whole man, not with man
in community.” What is needed, they said, is the estab-
lishment of an academic discipline of “human settle-
ments,’’ the initiation of basic research in that discipline,
and the bringing together of specialists in other fields to
work on projects about urban planning.
► Cosmopolis — An Ideal or a Nightmare?
What is the force which shapes and unifies our life
today? In certain centuries it was religion, in others
industrialization, in still others social revolt. What is it
today? That is the question to be answered by anyone
putting his thoughts to the subject of urban life in
today’s world.
The answer comes down to this: People living to-
gether — that is, the urbanization of the world. Because
of advances in means of transport and the exploration
of space, we are realizing more and more how small the
world is. Established organizations and country boun-
by
JULIAN KULSKI
Visiting Professor
of Urban Planning
and Architecture
daries are losing their old meanings. We need new con-
cepts to replace present ones. What we are talking about
is the Catholicism of the world. It is within this context
that we should view the problems of urban life.
Historian Arnold Toynbee describes it as Cosmopolis.
He states that in its original Greek meaning the word
“cosmopolis” was a great idea that the universe and all
its members, animate and inanimate, constitute one great
society, bound together by a common law and a common
ideal, but that today, in the formidable process of urbani-
zation throughout the world, with new conditions that
cannot be evaded and have no precedent, that ideal is
becoming a menace.
Industrialization has meant that the machine has
enslaved the human being rather than man enslaving
man. The problem of the Negro in America, for ex-
ample, is very much an urban problem. One reason
why it exists is not so much color but the fact that today
the Negro represents in a most vivid form the transition
from rural to urban life. Some of the same problems
were faced by the Polish peasants, for example, who
came to this country 50 years ago and were thrown into
factories and assembly lines.
One can cite many examples of the slavery of man
to a “modern” metropolis. What city has not been built
by workers who come in from rural areas to build a
6 NOTRE DAME
place which is not for them, is alien to them, and does
not want them, and in which they must all the same
somehow find a way to exist?
This problem — but one facet of the many every
T	urban area is plagued with — is a dramatic indication
of the void of our cities today. Cities are not a human
place to live in. Can new migrants to the cities be blamed
|	for not adjusting? Actually, the blame lies with those
who have adjusted. We have put up as humans with
what none should have put up with, whereas these people
have rebeled.
Take the problem of old age as another example. It
did not really exist earlier because of the pattern of
।	social organization. Old people lived in the same house
with the younger ones; family life was more tightly knit.
|	Now we are encountering an entirely different phenom-
enon. There is a splitting up of the family unit and an
increased segregation across economic lines and age
groups. This creates tremendous problems for com-
munities of millions of people.
Although the basic values of family life as a nucleus
of our Western civilization become more and more im-
congestion and expansion of today’s jet age, we today
are still doing comparatively little creative thinking to
prepare the coming generation for the life ahead. And
yet the very success or failure of our civilization depends
upon the degree of this training and preparation.
► What Is Being Done?
In his March 1961 Message to Congress on our na-
tion’s housing, President Kennedy acknowledged the
importance of the problem of urbanization when he said:
“To encourage the study of these pressing [urban]
problems, and to train a sufficient supply of skilled
manpower will require a substantial commitment of
our resources. Universities, private research groups,
professional and business organizations can all con-
tribute. . . . The Federal Government must play a
key role in support of these activities through leader-
ship and financial assistance.’’
The Federal Government’s activity in this field is
already voluminous. Nearly every department of the
government is now involved to some degree in matters
which touch vitally upon urban life. Numerous agencies
have large programs in operation to deal with such
problems as urban renewal, housing, transportation in
the urban complex, comprehensive regional and munici-
pal planning, and many health, education, and welfare
activities. The importance of the whole field of urban
activity has been graphically demonstrated by President
Kennedy’s proposal to establish a cabinet-level Depart-
portant, the actual form and adjustment to present-day
problems is not forthcoming. The Ten Commandments
have not changed; there is a greater need for them than
ever before. But their application in modern society has
become more complex. Somehow one must find the way
to apply them to modern life.
The mid-twentieth century has launched us upon a
course which is generating more profound changes in
man’s way of life than any of the great revolutions of
the past. Never before in the history of mankind were
there large sections of a continent which constituted
contiguous, densely populated urban communities. In
America the postwar period, with its urban sprawl and
increased migration to the city, has caught us unpre-
pared. We were educated for and prepared to live in
towns and cities but not in megalopolises. Just as those
before us did not plan our urban areas for the rapid
ment of Urban Affairs in Washington. The reaction
which this proposal has aroused is in itself a measure of
the importance of this field in our present-day life.
On a regional and local level the formation in recent
years of many urban planning commissions or govern-
ment bodies dealing with planning indicates the growing
awareness on the part of local communities of the need
for new legislation to meet urban growth.
The rapidly increasing number of government organs
administered by professionally trained persons, as opposed
to elected officials, points up the fact that urbanization
requires highly skilled professionals to coordinate its
many activities and guide its growth. One can, in fact,
point to a whole range of jobs of relatively recent vintage
which illustrates that a number of new professions have
been created to answer the needs of urban life. To name
but a few: urban planner, city administrator or manager,
zoning expert and urban legislator, urban designer, land-
use expert. These are, of course, professions tied to tradi-
tional academic disciplines, but they are new specializa-
tions which have revolutionized the disciplines themselves.
► The University Must Lead
To recognize and guide this changing trend is one of
the major responsibilities of the university. Today many
of the major universities have programs which deal spe-
cifically with the urban affairs field.
Education for planners has closely followed the grad-
ual awareness of and need for urban planning in Amer-
ica. The emergence of planning as a new profession at
the turn of the century (Harvard, for example, initiated
a city planning program
in 1909) was caused
by the



rapid industrialization and dramatic growth of our com-
munities without planning, resulting in conditions which
the country could not afford and culturally and eco-
nomically was not willing to accept.
With the Depression of the 1930’s and the Second
World War, the economic and social problems attendant
upon urban life became widely recognized and led to
new and significant activity in this field. At the end of
the war, eight universities in the US and Canada were
offering city planning programs. In a little over a
decade thereafter there was a dramatic expansion in
planning education, indicated by the fact that 23 new
university programs were established. Among them were
most of the outstanding institutions of higher learning
in the country. At present 33 universities have such pro-
grams.
The Need for Planners
The existing university programs are turning out
approximately 200 graduates a year in city planning but
are unable to meet present-day needs — to say nothing
of future needs — for qualified professional people in
this field. Governmental programs alone are generating
today a demand for nearly a thousand professional people
a year in the planning field. In 1960 the American
Society of Planning Officials alone advertised for 534
openings for planners, which was — to use a conservative
figure — about 80 per cent of the professional planning
jobs available that year. By 1962 this figure had risen
to 929 positions offered.
These data — which are by no means comprehensive
— cover only the needs for operational activities — that
is, for “doers,” as opposed to research and teaching.
The scope of governmental programs further demon-
strates the need for planning officials. At the present
moment the Federal Government is generating a demand
for professional city planning work of almost $90 million
a year. This sum is for planning connected with the
various government programs — urban planning assist-
ance, urban renewal, and housing. Furthermore, both
the foreign assistance programs of the United States and
the rapid expansion of Federal home programs indicate
job opportunities in this rapidly growing field.
Illustrating the recognition of the need for planners,
several nationwide scholarship and fellowship programs
were announced for the 1963-64 academic year for study
in the field of planning, urban renewal, and housing.
These programs all are of a continuing nature. Without
going into details as to their provisions, it is sufficient to
cite here the following data to indicate their scope: The
Sears Roebuck Foundation of Chicago., the Loula D.
Lasker Fellowship Trust of Washington, D.C., and the
Pittsburgh Plate Glass Foundation all offer a substantial
number of graduate fellowships in this field. The Federal
Government, under the National Defense Education Act,
also offers some fellowships in planning. More such aids
are likely. A far-reaching proposal for graduate fellow-
ships in the planning field was contained in a bill pre-
sented to the Senate by Senator Clark of Pennsylvania
in 1961 (S.2145). It called for 300 fellowships annually
for graduate training in city and regional planning. Some
such program is likely to come up again in the future,
given the present demand for planners.
►	Urban Studies As a Unifying Program
The universities today — despite the effort toward a
more catholic outlook — are still turning out thousands
of specialists with narrow interests. Not enough people
are interested in and concerned with the problems of life
today. The university should not be an institution di-
vorced from life — useless in solving practical problems.
Nowhere is this more true than in the field of planning.
Urban studies have among their aims the understand-
ing of the community’s economy, its social and political
systems, and the underlying causes and processes of urban
growth. Economics, sociology, geography, liberal arts,
architecture, and law are among the academic disciplines
to be drawn upon in an urban studies program.
Many of the university programs now in operation
started as subsidiary courses within an established univer-
sity department — usually architecture, sometimes land-
scape architecture — but subsequently developed into
independent or semi-independent emits. With the gradual
broadening of planning education, the curricula have been
adjusted to take into account not only the physical form
of the community but a whole new variety of academic
courses — social sciences, public administration, law, and
various inter-disciplinary courses. Because of the tre-
mendous variety of academic backgrounds necessary for
urban ecology, the study of our cities is best conducted
at the graduate level. By far, most of the existing pro-
grams are two-year programs beyond the normal bach-
elor’s degree.
We have outlined here only quantitatively the present
programs and have not discussed the standards of these
programs — their weaknesses and their need for improve-
ment. In any new field, particularly one which dynam-
ically expresses the rapid change in our mode of life,
there is bound to be great opportunity for improvement
and constant reanalysis. This, needless to say, is one of
the major responsibilities of our universities.
►	Urban Studies at Notre Dame
Notre Dame has long been in the ranks of the leading
universities and a pioneer among the Catholic institu-
tions of higher education. In this tradition Notre Dame
will presently offer a program of urban studies and play
an increasingly significant role in the spiritual and civic
future of our communities in this era of accelerated
urbanization.
McCORMICK JOURNALISM SCHOLARSHIP ESTABLISHED
The Robert R. McCormick Charitable Trust, Chicago,
Ill., has awarded a $50,000 grant to the University of
Notre Dame to endow an undergraduate scholarship in
journalism.
Describing scholarship assistance as “one of our
greatest needs,” Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.G.,
University president, said that in today’s world of ten-
sions and misunderstanding there are “few areas more
important than journalism and communications.” He
said the new Notre Dame scholarship will be named in
memory of Colonel Robert R. McCormick, the late
publisher of the Chicago Tribune. Where possible, he
said, it will be awarded to a student from one of the
five states primarily served by the Tribune'. Illinois, Indi-
ana, Iowa, Michigan and Wisconsin.
In a letter to the trustees of the McCormick Trust,
Father Hesburgh expressed the appreciation of the Uni-
versity and of “all the future scholars who will benefit by
this magnificent gift.” He pointed out that the Mc-
Cormick Scholarship endowment will trigger an addi-
tional matching grant of $25,000 for scholarships from
the Ford Foundation. Notre Dame currently is seeking
$5,500,000 in student-aid funds as part of its three-year,
$20,000,000 Challenge II Program.
Prof. Thomas J. Stritch, head of the department of
communication arts, cited the McCormick Trust grant
as “a splendid example of newspapers’ growing interest
in journalism education.” The McCormick Scholar-
ship, he said, will help develop in outstanding and de-
serving young men “those high professional standards of
journalism which his life and career and the Chicago
Tribune organization exemplify.”
TWO CIVIL-RIGHTS SCHOLARSHIPS GIVEN
Two new University of Notre Dame scholarships,
established by a New York couple in memory of the late
President John F. Kennedy, were presented to yo’”:g men
from Illinois and Texas on September 14 in the office
of Speaker of the House John W. McCormack.
First recipients of the President John F. Kennedy
Civil Rights Scholarships are Jacques Frank Yates, a
Notre Dame sophomore from Waukegan, Ill., and Leon
John Roos, of Houston, Tex., who begins his senior year
at the University.
The scholarships have been established with a $20,000
gift from Mr. and Mrs. John Bundschuh of New York
City. They specified that the scholarships be earmarked
for Negro and white upperclassmen at Notre Dame who
are studying political science and interested in civil-rights
problems. Bundschuh is president of the J. M. Louden Go.
9
“. . . the pursuit
of excellence .. ."
dew ounaoft...
Graduate School
In the Graduate School a modest in-
crease in enrollment is expected for the
1964-65 school year. Of more significance
is the fact that an increasing proportion
of our students are studying for the Ph.D.
degree.
Last spring the University approved the
offering of the Ph.D. degree in Civil Engi-
neering. Several students who now have
the M.S. will continue in this field.
The National Science Foundation estab-
lished a new program of Graduate
Traineeships in Engineering to begin with
the 1964-65 school year. Eleven trainee-
ships have been awarded to the Uni-
versity for students in the various branches
of engineering.
The NASA Traineeship Program in
Science and Engineering, which began a
year ago with eight trainees, has been
augmented to provide for eight additional
trainees to begin in September.
A new graduate program in Latin
American Studies has been granted three
National Defense Education Fellowships
to begin in September. The total number
of NDEA Fellows in the various pro-
grams at all levels is 26.
The new residence hall for graduate
student Sisters will be completed this year
and ready for use by September, 1965. We
can therefore expect to receive more ap-
plications from Sisters than we have in
the past.
Law School
The prospect is for an increase in the
entering class in September. Projections
based on past experience indicate that the
class will number about 110 as against 76
in September of 1963 — a gain of ap-
proximately 44%. Along with the ex-
pected increase in enrollment, there has
been an increase in applications for
scholarship assistance. 41.4% of the ap-
plicants accepted for admission have
sought a scholarship, many if not most
saying they could not afford to come to
Notre Dame without such help. Thus, as
enrollment grows, the need for scholar-
ships becomes more and more acute.
Mr. Justice Arthur Goldberg of the
Supreme Court of the United States will
preside over the final argument in the
annual Moot Court Competition on Oc-
tober 10. He will be the seventh of the
present members of the Supreme Court
to serve in that capacity.
Mr. Lewis Powell of Richmond, Presi-
CREDITS
The majority of pic-
tures in this issue were
taken by M. Bruce Har-
lan, University photog-
rapher.
The cover art is the
work of Edward E. Herr-
mann.
Other design and lay-
out features were exe-
cuted by Alden C. Bal-
mer.
Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S C.
Graduate School
Joseph O’Meara, Jr.
Law School
William M. Burke
Freshman Year of Studies
dent of the American Bar Association,
will be the featured speaker at the annual
Law Honors Banquet on May 3, 1965.
Mr. Powell’s visit will mark the eighth
consecutive year in which the Law Hon-
ors Banquet has been addressed by the
president of the American Bar Associa-
tion.
The annual meeting of the Editorial
Board of the Natural Law Forum has
been scheduled for October 31. In con-
nection with the meeting a series of lec-
tures will be delivered by Professor David
Daube, Regius Professor of Roman and
Civil Law at Oxford University in Eng-
land.
An extremely successful meeting of the
Notre Dame Law Association was held
in connection with the annual meeting
of the American Bar Association in New
York on August 13. Mr. Joseph A. Tracy
was in charge of arrangements and pre-
sided at the meeting. Mr. Churchill
Rogers, General Counsel of the Metro-
politan Life Insurance Company, was
present as a representative of the Ameri-
can Bar Association and spoke briefly.
The only other speaker was Dean
O’Meara.
Professor Noonan’s book, Contracep-
tion: A History of the Teaching of the
Catholic Theologians and Canonists, has
been accepted for publication by the Har-
vard University Press.
Freshman Year of Studies
Recent statistics place the drop-out ratio
at 62% to 64% of all young men and
women who entered college this Septem-
ber. In other words, only 36 to 38 stu-
dents out of every 100 manage to achieve
their college degrees. These statistics are
tragically high and every dean is very
much aware of this major problem in
American education.
When the Freshman Year of Studies
Program was established three years ago,
three of the basic reasons for its forma-
tion were based on the knowledge that,
1) students frequently enroll in the wrong
college program, 2) that students need
academic guidance by experienced fac-
ulty, and 3) that many students must
be taught techniques of studying effec-
tively. Keeping these three factors con-
tinually in mind, the faculty personnel in
the Freshman Office have contributed
most effectively toward the splendid suc-
cess of Notre Dame’s Freshman Program.
Specifically we have learned from ex-
10 NOTRE DAME
perience that between 250 and 300 stu-
dents will change their intent during the
Freshman Year. When we find such
changes can best benefit the academic
future of our freshmen, these changes
are implemented at the end of the first
semester, or at the end of the second
semester. We are constantly striving to
get each student in an area best fitted to
his own particular talents.
Notre Dame is unique among Ameri-
can colleges for its excellent faculty coun-
seling program. Three assistant deans and
four representatives from the upper-level
colleges — all members of the faculty —
are available to meet with freshmen for
a minimum of 150 hours a week. As a
matter of fact, the Freshman Office’s per-
sonnel interviews between 30 and 40
students a day throughout the school year.
These students run in ability from the
top Dean’s List Students, to the young
men facing probation. It is this personal
interest in the individual student that is a
basic feature of Notre Dame’s Advisory
Program for freshmen.
Even the best-prepared freshmen com-
ing to Notre Dame can improve their
study techniques. An important phase of
the Freshman Office is to offer to small
groups and to individuals, methods to
enable the first-year students to study
effectively and efficiently.
During the initial year of operation,
1962-63, there were 114 students who
made the Dean’s List, and 30 out of 1500
students were dismissed for academic de-
ficiency. During the past year, with a
slightly larger student body of 152'2, 182
students were placed on the Dean’s List
at the end of their Freshman Year, and
25 were dismissed for academic deficiency.
Incidentally, this dismissal rate for poor
performance is one of the lowest in the
country. It has been achieved by excellent
teaching on the freshman level by ex-
perienced faculty, and by individual super-
vision of each freshman’s progress by the
faculty personnel of the Freshman Office.
Continuing Education
Since having been appointed Dean of
our new Center for Continuing Educa-
tion, I have spent a considerable amount
of time visiting and studying the opera-
tions of the existing Kellogg Centers at
the Universities of Chicago, Oklahoma,
Nebraska, Georgia and Michigan State.
In addition to these, I have visited other
Centers which are operated by the uni-
versities themselves. Following this ex-
posure considerable changes were made
in the design of our Center — changes
which will provide greater flexibility and
Thomas T. Murphy
College of Business Administration
ART GALLERY HOURS
The Art Gallery of the
University of Notre Dame
is located in O’Shaugh-
nessy Hall and is open
to the public Monday
through Friday from noon
until 5 p.m.
On Saturday and Sun-
day, the Gallery is open
from 1 p.m. until 5 p.m.
Exhibits in the East
wing are from the Uni-
versity’s Collection. Ex-
hibits in the West wing
change periodically and
feature a variety of works
from artists throughout
the world.
Thomas P. Bergin
Continuing Education
Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C.
College of Arts and Letters
versatility in the use of the facilities.
The new Center will be located across
from the Morris Inn. We plan to break
ground around the first of September and
it should be completed in the latter part
of 1965. It will provide some 22 nicely
appointed seminar rooms, an audio-visual
center and theater, and an auditorium
which will accommodate approximately
400 people. We hope to attract a good
number of international conferences and
then be able to provide an atmosphere
for discussion through simultaneous trans-
lation facilities in the auditorium similar
to the procedures used at the United
Nations. We expect to do some new and
creative work in the area of educational
T.V. All the seminar rooms will have
closed-circuit television and some will
have facilities enabling us to initiate live
T.V. programs through WNDU-TV.
Once the Center is well established, we
anticipate having as many as 300 dif-
ferent conferences scheduled each year.
The seminar rooms and conference facili-
ties will accommodate as many as 800
at any one time.
The objectives of the Center will be
focused primarily upon providing new
emphasis on the important knowledge
currently emerging in so many specific
areas of study. It can be a window on
the world, providing as it -will not only
new vistas for the academic community
at Notre Dame but also opportunities
for extending knowledge to our alumni,
the nation and the world.
We plan to have a great variety of
programs. Conferences which will have
as their main theme the problems of
mankind in contemporary society rang-
ing from problems of poverty, mental
health and birth control to problems
on cancer research, world demography,
jurisprudence oi' the philosophy of sci-
ence. To these conferences or symposia
we would expect to attract the most dis-
tinguished men in the field and then pro-
vide for the dissemination of this type of
information and study.
We expect to schedule meetings of the
many existing scholarly organizations
representing the various academic dis-
ciplines. In addition to these traditional
or established associations, we plan to
provide the opportunities which may
bring about new associations and new
syntheses — attracting individuals as well
as groups.
One of the most encouraging aspects
of this new assignment has been the
genuine enthusiasm and support which I
have received from my fellow faculty
members, the Administration, the Alumni
and friends of Notre Dame.
11
College of Arts and Letters
The College of Arts and Letters will
have more than 600 seniors this school
year, the largest single class in the his-
tory of the college. With 575 juniors and
565 sophomores coming into the College
from the Freshman Year of Studies, the
3-year enrollment of liberal arts will be
the highest ever.
Dr. John J. Kennedy, formerly a pro-
fessor of political science at Notre Dame
and in recent years at the University of
Virginia, returns as head of the Depart-
ment of Government and International
Studies. Dr. Kennedy is a specialist in
Latin American studies and in public
administration.
Father Albert L. Schlitzer, C.S.C. will
be head of the Department of Theology
replacing Father Robert Pelton, C.S.C.
Dr. Harry A. Nielsen assumes the duties
of department head in philosophy, and
Dr. Frederick J. Crosson becomes the
director of the General Program of Lib-
eral Studies.
The history department will have Dr.
James W. Silver as a visiting professor
for 1964-65. Dr. Silver has served on the
University of Mississippi faculty for sev-
eral years and recently has published his
controversial book Mississippi: A Closed
Society.
The College will expand further the
practice of students selecting optional
courses within a discipline instead of all
being placed in a single multi-section
course. For example, seniors this fall may
meet their Theology requirement by
electing one of five different courses. The
Department of Philosophy is following a
similar pattern.
College of Business Administration
The College of Business Administra-
tion enters the 1964-65 academic year
with few faculty changes. Rev. Chester
Prusynski, C.S.C., was transferred to Port-
land University and has been replaced by
Rev. Michael Heppen, C.S.C. Dr. Robert
Taylor resigned as of June, 1964. Dr.
Richard M. Lynch will join the Account-
ing faculty on a part-time basis, sharing
the balance of his time with the Univer-
sity Comptroller’s office.
The student body of the College for
the upper three years stands at 1,002 as
compared with 902 one year ago. The
sophomores account for this over-all Col-
lege enrollment increase of 11%.
Assistant Dean John R. Malone was
awarded the Ph.D. from the University of
Chicago in December, 1963, and Professor
Edward Trubac will be awarded the
Ph.D. from Syracuse University in Sep-
ANNOUNCE SCHEDULE
FOR LIBRARY TOURS
Guided tours of the
new Notre Dame Me-
morial Library will be
conducted daily accord-
ing to an announcement
by Victor A. Schaefer,
director of libraries at
the University.
Schaefer said visitors
are cordially invited to
tour the library Monday
through Friday between
1 1 a.m. and 1 p.m., on
Saturday from 9 a.m. to
1 p.m., and on Sunday
between 4:30 and 6:30
p.m. Individuals or groups
should contact the re-
ceptionist in the library
concourse, he said.
While tours will be
conducted intermittently
during the time periods
indicated, group tours
may be arranged for a
specific time by writing
or calling Victor A.
Schaefer, director of li-
braries, Notre Dame,
Ind. (284-7317).
Frederick D. Rossini
College of Science
Norman R. Gay
College of Engineering
tember, 1964. Professor George Viger
will add the C.P.C.U. professional quali-
fication to his G.L.U. and G.P.A. in Sep-
tember, 1964. Faculty members of the
College delivered papers at a number of
professional organizations during the year
just past; these included American Mar-
keting Association, American Manage-
ment Association, Financial Executives In-
stitute, Midwest Economic Association,
Southwestern Economics Association, Tri-
State Marketing Association and Indiana
Academy of the Social Sciences.
Several of the faculty participated in
workshops and seminars during the 1964
summer season: Y. Furuhashi at New
York University; John Malone at Mich-
igan; Edgar Crane at Carnegie; S. R.
Reid at the University of Chicago; and
P. T. Brady at Tulane.
Professor James Dincolo lectured on tax
problems at the University of Puerto Rico
during the 1964 summer session and Pro-
fessor E. J. McCarthy extended his year-
long Ford Foundation study of marketing
in underdeveloped countries by touring
Europe during the summer. Dean Mur-
phy, at the invitation of Secretary of Com-
merce Luther Hodges, participated in a
Venezuelan Trade Mission in February,
1964.
A faculty task force, which studied in-
ternational business in order to recom-
mend action to the Dean, will continue its
study during the 1964-65 academic year.
A new task force to explore ways of im-
proving instruction in the area of the
behavioral sciences, will begin its delib-
erations in October. A special committee
to study and make recommendations on
graduate study in business to the Presi-
dent will begin its work in October; this
is an interdisciplinary committee com-
posed of outsiders and University faculty
members.
A number of College lecturers are
scheduled for the coming academic year.
Visitors include Michael Harrington, Ray-
mond Hilliard, John Brademas, Harry
Schwartz, J. Fred Weston, Justice William
J. Brennan, and Herbert Striner. Two
symposia are scheduled during the aca-
demic year: “Poverty in the United
States,” and “The Kennedy Administra-
tion and the American Economy.”
College of Science
During the past year, the College of
Science established several new records:
The total number of Members of the
Faculty passed the one hundred mark.
In the year ending June 30, 1964, the
Members of the Faculty had a total of
151, publications appear in the scientific
literature of the world.
12
NOTRE DAME
The amount of support for basic re-
search investigations in the College of
Science, from government agencies, pri-
vate foundations, and industrial organiza-
tions, climbed to near 2.5 million dollars,
in the Departments of Biology, Chemistry,
Geology, Mathematics, and Physics, and
the Lobund Laboratory and the Radia-
tion Laboratory.
During the year ending June 30, 1964,
the Members of the Faculty delivered a
total of 178 lectures off campus, in 29
states of the United States and in 11
countries abroad.
In the two Commencements (June and
August) of 1964, the Departments of the
College of Science awarded a total of 47
degrees of Doctor of Philosophy — seven
in Biology, 23 in Chemistry, six in Mathe-
matics, and 11 in Physics.
In the same two Commencements,
there were a total of 118 degrees of Mas-
ter of Science awarded, mostly to High
School Teachers for work in Summer
Sessions — 22 in Biology, 35 in Chem-
istry, 46 in Mathematics, and 15 in
Physics.
Also, in the same two Commencements,
there were a total of 138 degrees of
Bachelor of Science awarded — seven in
Biology, nine in Chemistry, five in Ge-
ology, 15 in Mathematics, 16 in Physics,
and 86 in Preprofessional Studies.
The year 1965 will mark the centen-
nial of the College of Science at the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame.
We hope to continue and accelerate
our progress in science at Notre Dame.
College of Engineering
Approximately 875 students will be
enrolled in the College of Engineering for
the academic year 1964-65 at the sopho-
more, junior, senior, and fifth-year levels.
The incoming sophomore class will be the
smallest to enroll in the College of Engi-
neering during the recent past years. How-
ever the incoming freshman class will
have a more typical number of Engineer-
ing intents (approximately 400) so that
our enrollment should be back to a more
normal pattern next year.
Our undergraduate laboratories are be-
ing remodeled and furnished with new
equipment as rapidly as the financial sup-
port becomes available. Four matching
grants have been received from the Na-
tional Science Foundation for undergrad-
uate instructional equipment which will
aid several of the departments in our lab-
oratory modernization program. The re-
modeling of the third floor of the Gush-
ing Hall of Engineering has been com-
pleted and a new mezzanine area has
been constructed on the first floor of the
building to provide some much-needed space for instruction and research.
The Department of Architecture is scheduled to move into the old
Main Library building this September. The building interior has been
completely refurbished to provide classrooms, offices, drafting, exhibi-
tion rooms, etc., necessary for the proper functioning of the Department.
Undergraduate research participation programs are under way in
three of the departments of the College and new programs in other
departments will be added next year. These programs provide oppor-
tunities for undergraduates of high ability to engage in independent
study or to participate directly in research with a view toward facilitating
their transition from undergraduate to graduate studies.
The Department of Civil Engineering will inaugurate a Ph.D. pro-
gram to begin with the academic year 1964-65. This brings to six the
number of departments in the College offering graduate programs
through the doctorate. Our graduate student enrollment for this academic
year should be approximately 180, with about one-third of this number
registered for the Ph.D. degree. The College has been granted eleven
National Science Foundation pre-doctoral traineeships, and these, to-
gether with the regular N.S.F. fellowships, the traineeships sponsored by
the National Aeronautics and Space Administrator, research assistant-
ships under faculty members having contracts with various governmental
agencies, a few industrial fellowships, and teaching assistantships spon-
sored by the University provide the main means of support for our
graduate students.
"The Spirit of Notre Dame"
This abstract water color was produced this past summer by Sister M. Vernona Welsh,
a graduate student in the Art Department. Easily identifiable are the Dome, the steeple of
Sacred Heart Church, the Memorial Library mural, the Grotto and the Stadium. Sister Vernona
is currently stationed at St. Bede's Priory and teaching the first and second grades at St.
Patrick's School, Eau Claire, Wis. She plans to return to Notre Dame next summer in pursuit
of her master's degree.
13
a
SCHOLARSHIPS
A growing need in a growing University
When the University of Notre Dame was founded more than 120
years ago, the problem was attracting the right young men to enroll
in the University and subsequently enable them to accrue the greatest
possible benefits of a Notre Dame education.
The problem was ever thus.
Today, hundreds of promising applicants are necessarily turned
away because of the unavailability of funds for scholarships—grants-
in-aid for deserving students.
As part of the University of Notre Dame’s CHALLENGE II program,
scholarships, fellowships, student loans and campus employment form
the second largest area of priority development. To expand these vita!
areas, the University has earmarked $5,500,000 to be obtained from
Notre Dame’s alumni, friends, corporations and foundations.
Reports of recent scholarships being established at the University
appear in other pages of this issue. While encouraging and significant,
these new scholarships are only a fraction of those necessary in today’s
growing University structure.
Notre Dame needs more scholarships today! If you can help in any
way, please contact:
SCHOLARSHIP CHAIRMAN
NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
P.O. BOX 555
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556
Additional information about a variety of plans enabling you to
assist deserving young men in obtaining a Notre Dame education will
be forwarded to you without obligation.
14 NOTRE DAME
WATCH
THAT
WELDING TORCH, SISTER!
Art classes at Notre Dame this past summer were
unusual, as evidenced by these pictures of nuns
executing contemporary sculpture by welding.
Sisters may not have similar equipment in
schools
and
convents across the nation, but at
These
their
Notre
Dame’s Art Department they study and work with
the very latest in art forms every year.
South Bend Tribune Photos.
neers
the
can
the
and
and also where the poorer solutions erred. Hence,
concept of the design contest has been developed
tried in our program with great success.
The difficulty in carrying out this concept is
development of a design problem whose solution

by DR. EDWARD W. JERGER
Head, Department of Mechanical Engineering
Traditional engineering or machine design courses
tend to use stereotype problems, such as to determine
the diameter of a shaft to carry a certain load within a
certain stress range.
For this reason, many engineering students avoid de-
sign for areas where more challenging problems are en-
countered. Many design courses are failing to motivate
students because they are not taught as modern design.
But in Notre Dame’s Department of Mechanical
Engineering design courses are revitalized with annual
competitions.
Design is synonymous with decision and engineering
with compromise. Hence, a machine can be designed
with endurance beyond its usefulness but at an out-
rageous cost. Therefore, there is an optimum endurance
and cost, though arbitrary to one’s own decision. Also,
with today’s expanding technology, there are many good
solutions to design problems. Therefore, a difficult prob-
lem is encountered to determine the “best” or optimal
solution.
How does one “get across” the concept of decision
and compromise? Easy! One simply uses modern, real-
istic problems with multi-solutions, which immediately
brings one a tremendous difficulty, that of deciding which
design is better than another.
While the university is no place to build prototypes,
the student can build small prototypes out of easy fash-
ioned materials. These models can then be tested and
the results compared to demonstrate the better solutions
take form in an easily constructed model. The testing
of this model should produce meaningful results. Balsa
wood and glue, baling wire and solder, shim stock and
solder are possible model materials.
In arranging the details of our contest last year, the
following rules were observed:
—
balsa wood, the cry immediately went up that the “stuff’
could not carry one pound, let alone five or 50. This non.
engineering observation was smashed after three struc-
tures easily supported 50 pounds.
The contest was simply the design of a structure to
carry the maximum load-to-structure-weight ratio.
The structure had to be built within a specific area,
with a maximum overall height of 10 inches, an over-
all width of 20 inches, and a center arch of 5 inches.
There was no limitation to the size of the third dimen-
sion. The load could be applied anywhere along the cen-
terline. The model was to be made of 3/32 in. square
balsa wood, purchased by the Mechanical Engineering
Department, to insure some uniformity of material, and
glued together with airplane glue. The model also had
to hold a minimum of five pounds with 50 pounds the
maximum load to be applied. Also, an analysis of the
structure was to be submitted with the model.
When the students received their supply of fragile


Reading the rules and noting the evaluation is placed
on the ratio of load over structure weight, many deci-
sions came to mind. Which shape of structure will give
the best ratio? Will the load increase more rapidly than
an increase in weight for strength in the structure? How
narrow can the structure be made and still have sta-
bility? Should the weight be applied to the tsp, center,
or bottom of the center section? What is the longest
length of balsa stick that can be used for a given com-
pressive load without it buckling? And so on.
Hence, the students were forced to become design
engineers. They had to make decisions and compromises.
And even more so, they had to live with their decisions
in their models. Then each observed how well his model
stood up to his classmate’s through an impartial test.
Needless to say the students showed enthusiasm for
the contest. And in the process, many concepts of design
were changed.
The project was conceived and executed by Dr.
Charles Timko, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engi-
neering, and should become a regular feature of the
Mechanical Engineering curriculum.
17
OTTO’S "JEREMIAH" CHOSEN
Waldemar Otto, artist-in-residence at Notre Dame
who is noted for his expressionistic bronze religious works,
has received word from Germany that his latest sculpture,
Jeremiah, has been chosen by German architect Bodo
Fleischer for a parish center he is building in Kloster-
felde.
The 72-inch high plaster figure, depicting Jeremiah
bearing the burden of his yoke with strong and forced
determination, is presently being cast in bronze in a
Berlin art foundry.
As a result of this commission, Otto has also been
asked to execute a bronze door for the main entrance
of this new church with figures of the Old Testament
on the outside and the New Testament on the inside.
NOTRE DAME NEWS
(Continued from page 2)
for graduate school were drawn from among approxi-
mately 1,600 graduates of 52 colleges and universities
where the Navy maintains ROTC units.
Six Notre Dame graduates, who received ensign’s
commissions in the regular Navy last June, are among
those designated for graduate study. They are Donald
Del Hanzo, Southampton, Pa.; Ronald Radbavny, Can-
ton, Ohio; Charles O’Neill, Jr., Wayne, Pa.; John B.
Halligan, Rockville Center, N.Y.; Donald T. Twomey,
Orange, Calif.; and James J. Sullivan, Bay Shore, N.Y.
Four other Notre Dame graduates, commissioned
ensigns in the Navy Reserve last June, also will take
advanced studies. They are David McCaffrey, Bloom-
field, N.T.; Daniel P. Dencze, East Chicago, Ind.; Robert
Johnston, Harrisburg, Pa.; and Eugene Lynch, Oakmont,
Pa.
FISCHER GIVES ADDRESS, MAKES FILM
Edward Fischer, associate professor of communication
arts at Notre Dame, addressed the national conference of
the University Film Producers Association at the Univer-
sity of Oklahoma in August. Fischer, who is a director of
the association and editor of its quarterly magazine, dis-
cussed “How to Develop a Discerning Film Audience.”
The Notre Dame communications specialist recently
returned from Hollywood where he wrote, directed and
appeared in a film, The War on Gobbledygook. It
will be released to 200 television stations during the
winter months.
STAUDER ELECTED TO BOARD
Prof. Lawrence F. Stauder, of the department of
electrical engineering at Notre Dame, has been elected
to the national board of directors of Eta Kappa Nu, the
electrical engineering honor society. He attended a di-
rectors’ meeting in Los Angeles in August and also par-
ticipated in the West Coast international convention of
the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
o
SMELSER GETS ENCYCLOPEDIA COMMISSION
Professor Marshall Smelser, professor of history at
Notre Dame, has been commissioned to write 24 articles
on early American history for the World Book En-
cyclopedia, published by Field Enterprises of Chicago.
Dr. Smelser, who has been a member of the Notre
Dame faculty since 1947, is a specialist in early American
history and the naval history of the United States.
LOCAL A.C.S. GROUP HONORED
The student chapter of the American Chemical
Society at the University of Notre Dame has been named
one of the outstanding campus affiliates in a nationwide
survey by the society.
The Society’s Committee on Chemical Education re-
viewed the activities of its student affiliate chapters in
more than 400 colleges and universities, and cited the
Notre Dame group as one of those having outstanding
programs.
Rev. Joseph L. Walters, G.S.G., assistant professor of
chemistry, is the faculty sponsor of the Notre Dame
chapter.
18
NOTRE DAME
HAMILL VISITS EUROPE
Dr. William H. Hamill, professor of chemistry at
Notre Dame, participated in a series of conferences in
Europe during September.
Prof. Hamill delivered a paper on “Ionization Effi-
ciency Measurements by the Retarding Potential Dif-
ference Method” at a conference on mass spectrometry
in Paris as part of the A.S.T.M. annual meeting. He
then went to Berlin to present a paper on “Ionic Processes
in Gamma-Irradiated Organic Glasses” at the Hahn-
Meitner-Institut fur Kernforschung.
BARTHOLOMEW ATTENDS MEETING
Prof. Paul G. Bartholomew, professor of Government
and International Studies at Notre Dame, attended the
American Political Science Association meeting in Chi-
cago in September.
He was chairman of a panel on public law, “The
Choice of Federal and State Judges.”
SHUSTER NAMED KEYNOTER
Dr. George N. Shuster, assistant to the president of
Notre Dame, has been named the keynote speaker for
the 37th annual conference of the Catholic Association
for International Peace opening in Washington, D.C.,
October 22. The program of the four-day conference
will center on the problem of population growth.
FATHER WALSH AT NASHVILLE CONFERENCE
Rev. John E. Walsh, G.S.G., vice president for public
relations and development at Notre Dame, participated
in the 18th Institute of Higher Education at Nashville,
Tenn., in July. The Institute is a workshop for college
and university administrative officials and was sponsored
by the Board of Education of the Methodist Church.
The theme of this year’s sessions was “The Christian
College in a Day of Moral Crisis.” Father Walsh served
as counselor at a series of workshop sessions for college
and university development officers.
FOUNDATION, ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
WIN MAJOR AWARDS
During the past year, programs of the Notre Dame
Foundation and the Notre Dame Alumni Association
earned major awards in nationwide competitions con-
ducted by the American College Public Relations Asso-
ciation and the American Alumni Council.
The Foundation’s presentation, “A Fund-Raising Pro-
gram Commensurate With the Needs and the Oppor-
tunities of Our Times,” won a certificate of special merit
in the AGPRA’s National Honors competition.
The American Alumni Council’s Grand Award, which
included a $5,000 cash award, was given to Notre Dame
for the improvement of its alumni-giving program.
In the Direct Mail competition, Notre Dame won a
second place in the special events category with its series
of mailings connected with the annual alumni reunions.
YANK AND KELLEHER SPEAK
Dr. Kwang-Tzu Yang, professor of mechanical engi-
neering at the University of Notre Dame, and Matthew
Kelleher, research fellow in mechanical engineering at
the University, presented a paper to the Seventh National
Heat Transfer Conference in Cleveland, Ohio in August.
Their paper treated “Response of Laminar Free-Gon-
vection Boundary Layers along a Vertical Plate to Sur-
face-Temperature Oscillations.”
The Conference was sponsored jointly by the Energy
Conversion and Transport Division of the American In-
stitute of Chemical Engineers and the Heat Transfer
Division of the American Society of Mechanical En-
gineers.
WOSTMANN GIVES TOXICOLOGY TALK
Dr. Bernard S. Wostmann, associate professor of bi-
ology at the University of Notre Dame, was a speaker
at the Gordon Conference on Toxicology at Meridien,
N.H., in August.
Dr. Wostmann attended the International Congress
of Biochemistry in New York earlier, and also visited
three major government research organizations in the
Washington, D.G. area: the Office of Naval Research,
the National Science Foundation, and the National In-
stitutes of Health in Bethesda, Md.
MISSION CRUSADE DRAWS 4,200
A total of 4200 young people representing high
schools, colleges and seminaries throughout the country
attended the 21st national convention of the Catholic
Students’ Mission Crusade at Notre Dame in August.
Members of the hierarchy of the United States, the
Philippine Islands and China joined missionaries from
many other lands at the sessions whose general theme was
“A World United.”
Thomas Cardinal Tien, exiled archbishop of Peking,
was the ranking prelate at the GSMG convention, and
Bishop Leo A. Pursley of Fort Wayne-South Bend served
as episcopal host.
Major convention addresses were given by Archbishop
Karl J. Alter of Cincinnati, national GSMC president,
and Bishop John J. Wright of Pittsburgh, the keynote
speaker.
GRANTS OF $396,431 AWARDED
Training program grants, research grants and fellow-
ships totaling $396,431 have been awarded to the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame in recent weeks, it was announced
by Francis X. Bradley, research administrator for the
University.
The National Aeronautics and Space Administration
awarded the University $153,600 for training of graduate
students in space-related sciences and technology, and
$44,166 in institutional grants was received from the
National Science Foundation for the 1964 science pro-
gram. Dr. Morris Pollard, director of Lobund Labora-
tory, received $'27,540 from the National Institutes of
Health for a training program in Multidisciplinary Bi-
ology.
The biology department and Lobund Laboratory
received three of the eight research grants made to the
University. Dr. Morris Pollard was awarded $8,000 from
the Cancer Society of St. Joseph County to support can-
cer research. Dr. Bernard Wostmann, associate professor
of biology, received a $1,200 grant from the Indiana
Heart Association for the Study of Cholesterol Metabolism
with Gnotobiotic Animals, and Dr. Ronald J. Downey,
assistant professor of biology, received $17,375 from the
National Institutes of Health for a study of Oxidative
Metabolism of Inorganic Compounds.
19
vr. Kdmrd J. J. Tracey, Jr.
P. 0. 'hx 436
Qv«r,e College, Pa.
With the advent of Fall, the leaves turn color and the crowds pour
into the Notre Dame Stadium to witness the exploits of the
'"Fighting Irish" on a gridiron already legendary with examples of
a spirit that reigns supreme "though the odds be great or small".
In this Fall of 1964, Head Football Coach Ara Parseghian will lead
Notre Dame men in their 76th year of intercollegiate football
competition. And to Notre Dame's new coach and all the players —
Notre Dame fans everywhere wish them every success.
But in other areas throughout the campus, Notre Dame men
compete daily in athletic endeavors that more often than not,
never make the headlines of the sports pages.
In Wrestling, Weightlifting, Rugby, Gymnastics and Bowling
Notre Dame men continue a tradition as old as the University itself.
Notre Dame men participate in athletics eagerly — and they will
continue to benefit from the discipline and lessons learned only on
the fields and courts of athletic competition as long as Notre Dame
can continue to provide the best in athletic facilities for all students.
Since Notre Dame began, more than 120 years ago, the spirit
of sports and physical development has permeated the University
and its men.
The tradition of great teaching — and great learning — is ex-
tended in the athletic arena, as well as the- classroom at Notre Dame.
In order to extend this tradition for ali Notre Dame men of the fu-
ture, the new Athletic and Convocation Center is an integral part of
the Challenge II program. It will provide headquarters for all sports,
and give students much needed, year-round facilities for every
athletic endeavor.
For additional information on this new building as well as the
other important portions of Notre Dame’s $20,000,000 Challenge J!
program please write:
The University of Notre Dame Foundation
P. O. Box 555
Notre Dame, Indiana