
•	Dr. Frank L. Keegan, assistant dean of the
College of Arts and Letters at the University of
Notre Dame, has been appointed a U. S. Peace
Corps training officer for a co-operative summer
training program involving seven universities in
the Washington, D.C. area.
•	Edward Fischer, associate professor of com-
munication arts at Notre Dame, was a juror for
the American Film Festival in New York City in
April.
® Dr. Gerhart Niemeyer, professor of political
science at Notre Dame, will be a lecturer at an
Institute on Communism for Teachers and School
Administrators to be held at the University of
Southern California June 25 - August 3.
•	Kev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of
the University of Notre Dame, was the commence-
ment speaker at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology on June 8, and delivered the bacca-
laureate sermon at St. Mary’s College on June 2.
He also received honorary degrees from Indiana
University and Brandeis University.
•	More than 400 persons attended the 20th annual
meeting of the Midwest Conference of Political
Scientists at Notre Dame in April.
•	Admiral George W. Anderson, Jr., U.S.N., Chief
of Naval Operations, was the ranking visiting of-
ficer when 1,850 University of Notre Dame BOTC
cadets and midshipmen marched in the annual
President’s Review.
•	Anthony G. DeLorenzo, vice president in charge
of public relations for The General Motors Corpo-
ration has been appointed to the Advisory Council
for the College of Business Administration at the
University of Notre Dame.
MW
A DIGEST OF IMPORTANT HAPPENINGS
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
AND NEWS BRIEFS ON THE ACTIVITIES
OF NOTRE DAME MEN.
•	Dr. Alvan S. Ryan has been appointed head of
the English department at the University of Notre
Dame, succeeding Professor John T. Frederick
who is retiring from the faculty after 32 years’
service. Frederick had been head of the depart-
ment since 1958.
•	Funeral services were held in Sacred Heart
Church at Notre Dame on May 11 for Francis W.
Kervick, 78, professor emeritus of architecture and
long-time head of the department of architecture
at the University of Notre Dame.
•	The retirement of nine University of Notre
Dame faculty members was announced at the
annual President’s Dinner for the faculty and
administration in the North Dining Hall in May.
Those retiring from the University’s classrooms
were: Herbert J. Bott, marketing management;
Paul I. Fenlon, English; Rev. Peter P. Forrestal,
C.S.C., modern languages; John T. Frederick,
English; Steponas Kolupaila, civil engineering;
Paul M. Nastucoff, mathematics; Raymond J.
Schubmehl, assistant dean of engineering; Rev.
Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., philosophy; and James A.
Withey, communication arts.
•	Robert E. Rodes, Jr., associate professor of law
at the University of Notre Dame, gave a series of
three lectures here on “Religious Establishment
in England,” based on research he conducted at
Oxford University in England during the past
year.
•	Dr. Karl Sax, visiting professor of genetics at
North Carolina State College, spoke on “The
World’s Exploding Population” at the University
of Notre Dame on March 20. His lecture was
sponsored by the Notre Dame chapter of Sigma Xi.
• Henry M. Hogan, recently retired vice president
and general counsel of The General Motors Corpora-
tion, has been appointed to the Advisory Council
of the Notre Dame Law School. The advisory group
is composed of 22 judges, lawyers, and business-
men who meet semi-annually on the campus with
(Continued on page 18)
• EDITOR: JOHN H. JANOWSKI
NOTRE DAME VOL. 15, No. 2, SUMMER, 1962
Published quarterly by the University of Notre
Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second
class matter May 10, 1928, at Post Office at Notre
Dame, Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.
2 NOTRE DAME
The principals of Notre Dame’s Radiation Laboratory include: (left to
right) Dr. Milton Burton, Director; Dr. William H. Hamill, Research Di-
rector; Rev. Thomas J. Lane, C.S.C., Research Director; Dr. James S.
Kohn, Research Director; Mr. John J. Risser, Assistant Director, Adminis-
tration; Dr. Patrick A. McCusker, Research Director; Brother Columba
Curran, C.S.C., Research Director; Dr. John L. Magee, Associate Director;
Dr. Rudolph Bottei, Research Director; Dr. Harvey A. Bender, Research
Director; Dr. George S. John, Research Director; Dr. George B. Craig,
Research Director; Dr. Ernest L. Eliel, Research Director; Dr. Robert E.
Gordon, Research Director; and (front) Dr. Kenyon S. Tweedel, Research
Director. Dr. George D. Kuczynski, Research Director, was absent when
this picture was taken.
Notre Dame's
Radiation
Laboratory
While construction proceeds noticeably on the thir-
teen-story Notre Dame Memorial Library, other workers
are busy building two structures immediately south of
the Library site — the Computing Center and a Radia-
tion Laboratory building.
While the completed Radiation Laboratory building
will be new to the Notre Dame scene, the activities of
the Laboratory in basic research will continue with the
same dedication and skill that has characterized it since
its inception on the campus.
Early History
The history of the Radiation Laboratory really dates
back to the World War II years. At that time Professor
Milton Burton was in charge of radiation chemistry
research at the Metallurgical Laboratory of the University
of Chicago and the Clinton Laboratories at Oak Ridge,
both of which were instruments of the Atomic Energy
effort which culminated in the creation of the atomic
bomb.
This research was conducted throughout the country
wherevei' facilities were available, and one group was
organized at Notre Dame under the supervision of Pro-
fessor William H. Hamill.
After the war, Professor Burton joined the faculty of
the University of Notre Dame and made application to
the Office of Naval Research for support of a broad
program organized in February, 1947, under the title
“Radiation Chemistry Project.” The Office of Naval
Research supported the effort very generously but it be-
came apparent late in 1948 that the effort was on too
large a scale for that office.
Because of the nature of the activities of the Project,
the Atomic Energy Commission established a direct con-
3
Dr. Frank Mellows, a research associate, works with a
radioactive source of 1000 curies of Cobalt-60.
tractural relationship on February 1, 1949 and, since that
time, has been the principal source of support of the
program. However, in any detailed history of the Project
the generous support received also from such industries
as Sinclair Refining Co., Olin-Matheson, Monsanto and
America Oil Go., as well as from the Wright Air De-
>	o
velopment Division must be recorded.
At the outset, the members of the Radiation Labo-
ratory were Professor Milton Burton, the Director, and
Professors William H. Hamill and Russell R. Williams,
Jr. Shortly afterwards, Professor John L. Magee came
to the Chemistry Department at Notre Dame and joined
the Project.
The impact of the Project on radiation chemistry
throughout the world was evident at its very beginning.
The first symposium on photochemistry and radiation
chemistry was held at Notre Dame in 1947. The members
of the Radiation Project were involved in the creation
of the Radiation Research Society in 1952. They parti-
cipated both in the symposia preceding and the one
immediately following the creation of the Society.
The Faraday Society (United Kingdom), subsequent
to conferences with Professor Burton, organized a meet-
ing on radiation chemistry at Leeds, England, in April
1952, at which the participants included Professors Magee
and Burton as well as others who had visited previously
at the University of Notre Dame.
4 NOTRE DAME
The first Gordon Research Conference (an American
Association for the Advancement of Science venture) was
organized by Professor Burton in 1953. This conference
on radiation chemistry has met annually since that time;
to a larger and larger degree, the participants in the
conference have included people who have been trained
at Notre Dame or who have visited the Radiation
Laboratory in. the course of their studies. Other inter-
national meetings on radiation chemistry have occurred
with increasing frequency since that date. Uniformly,
members of the Radiation Laboratory and scientists who
have come from that Laboratory have played an im-
portant part in the proceedings. Indeed, people have
been identified at such meetings as people belonging to
or not belonging to the group “that have gone to Mecca,”
the allusion, of course, being to the Radiation Labora-
tory at Notre Dame.
Early in the 50’s, the Director of the Research Division
of the AEG suggested an expansion of the activities of
the Project into related fields; the Project in turn en-
couraged faculty from disciplines other than chemistry,
with interests allied, or related, to established interests
of the AEG, to join its membership. Up to that time
the entire membership had been drawn from the area
of physical chemistry. As the result of such encourage-
ment, the Project gained members in the fields of or-
ganic, inorganic and analytical chemistry, biology, chemi-
cal engineering and metallurgy. In recognition of its
expanded range of interest, its name was changed to
“Radiation Project.”
The Pressure for a New Building
By 1958, the activities of the Project had so expanded
and its membership had so increased, that it had become
evident that lack of space was hampering both future
expansion and current efficiency. Further, it was be-
coming obvious that the University itself would be
unable to provide funds for the additional space re-
The crowded conditions of the present physical chemistry
lab will be relieved with
completion of the new
building.

George Hennion, Jr., a technician, operates a
mass spectrometer which analyzes volatile
organic compounds. The unit was
purchased in 1953 for $40,000.
quired. Impelled by the realities of the situation, the
University appealed both to the AEC and to the NSF
for support of new construction with government funds.
This request was received with sympathy and, indeed,
with enthusiastic support by both AEC and NSF but
its fulfillment awaited a clear statement of policy re-
garding use of federal funds for construction on private
university campuses. This statement of policy led to
the authorization act of June, 1960. Initial funds were
appropriated by the U.S. Congress in August 1960 and
the final appropriation for construction, totalling $2.2
million, was made a year later.
In recognition of expanded status, the University
administration changed the name of the Project to “Ra-
diation Laboratory” on September 22, 1960.
Laboratory Members and Their Activities
The members of the Radiation Laboratory now in-
clude the following faculty, whose names and depart-
mental connections are listed as follows:
Harvey A. Bender, Assistant Professor of Biology;
Rudolph S. Bottei, Assistant Professor of Chemistry;
Milton Burton, Professor of Chemistry, Director; George
B. Craig, Jr., Associate Professor of Biology; Bro. Co-
lumba Curran, Professor of Chemistry; Ernest L. Eliel,
Professor of Chemistry; Robert E. Gordon, Assistant Pro-
fessor of Biology; William H. Hamill, Professor of Chem-
istry.
Also, James P. Kohn, Associate Professor of Chemical
Engineering; George D. Kuczynski, Professor of Metal-
lurgy; Rev. Thomas J. Lane, Associate Professor of
Chemistry; John L. Magee, Professor of Chemistry, As-
sociate Director; Patrick A. McCusker, Professor of
Chemistry; Kenyon S. Tweedell, Assistant Professor of
Biology; John J. Risser, Assistant Director for Adminis-
tration.
Dr. John Falconer looks at one of four
chromatographs which determines changes
produced by radiation in liquids. His
assistant is his wife, Della.
An effort toward understanding of the effects of
radiation continues to be the raison d’etre of the Radia-
tion Laboratory. However, it is appreciated that funda-
mental understanding of such effects is not gained ex-
clusively from studies involving radiation. Many fields
of effort, the pertinence of which is not immediately
apparent to one outside the area of radiation chemistry,
are investigated fundamentally because of their im-
portance to studies in radiation chemistry. One result
is that the Radiation Laboratory is now making its in-
fluence felt in areas distinctly outside of radiation
chemistry.
Members of the Laboratory have been invited to par-
ticipate in, and to chair, numerous symposia in ap-
parently unrelated fields. In 1961, for example, mem-
bers of the Laboratory participated in meetings at:
American Chemical Society, St. Louis, Missouri; Sixth
International Conference on Coordination Chemistry,
Detroit, Mich.; American Chemical Society, Chicago,
Ill.; International Conference on Nuclear Electronics,
Belgrade, Yugoslavia; Symposium on Radiation Effects
and Milieu, Montreux, Switzerland; XVIIIth Inter-
national Congress of Pure and Applied Chemistry,
Montreal, Canada; Fourth Japan Conference on Radio-
J]
isotopes, Kyoto, Japan; Gordon Research Conference on
Radiation Chemistry, New Hampton, N. H.; Research
Institutes in Moscow, Belgrade and Osaka; Pittsburgh
Conference on Applied Spectroscopy, Pittsburgh, Penn-
sylvania; Miller Conference, Wales.
Also, the Conference of the Subcommittee on Effects
of Ionizing Radiations (Committee on Nuclear Science,
National Research Council), Paris; Radiation Research
Society, Washington, D.C.; Oak Ridge National Labo-
ratory; Brookhaven National Laboratory; Tenth Pacific
Science Congress, Honolulu, Hawaii; Annual Meeting of
the Entomological Society of America, Miami, Florida;
Woods Hole, Mass. ; Highlands, North Carolina. Indeed,
members delivered lectures at universities and laboratories
simply too numerous to list in detail.
Members of the Laboratory have been, or are, on
the Editorial Boards of the Journal of Physical Chemistry,
the Journal of the American Chemical Society, the
Journal of Organic Chemistry, Radiation Research and
the Midland Naturalist and have authored or edited
200 or more publications including several books.
The New Building
The new building of the Radiation Laboratory is now
in course of construction. It will be fully devoted to
studies of the effects of radiation. A three-story building
168 ft. long and 81 ft. wide, with a fully useful basement
and 3 stories of laboratories, shops, offices and con-
ference rooms will embrace approximately 64,000 square
feet and will contain about 50,000 square feet of useful
space. It is in many respects, both internally and ex-
ternally, revolutionary in its construction. For example,
it will have on the basement level (but external to the
main body of the building) a Van de Graaff generator
room and a 10 kc Co 60 source room in which the
effects of radiation at high intensities can be studied un-
der a variety of adjustable conditions. The 10 kc source
room is really unique in two respects: a} it enables use of
high intensity irradiation under conditions which can be
adjusted to the needs of the experimentalist (i.e., so far
as temperature, pressure and other conditions are con-
cerned) ; b) it is so constructed that it is not possible
A vast area of the new Radiation Laboratory build-
ing will be underground. As the concrete walls
are formed in the excavation, the Stadium
looms in the distance.
Charles Bennett, job superintendent, checks the
blueprints for the new Radiation Laboratory with
Messrs. Risser, Hamill, Magee, and Burton on
the building foundation.
to perform any large-scale technological experiments.
The laboratory is planned to produce information for
people who would like to engage in technological activi-
ties elsewhere. It is deliberately planned to prevent the
Laboratory from engaging in efforts which industry itself
can more conveniently, more properly and more profit-
ably undertake.
The building itself was designed by Skidmore, Owings
and Merrill (SOM), who are architects for the
Union Carbide Building in New York City and the Air
Force Academy at Colorado Springs. They are known
for startling and exciting features in building construe-
tion. The new Radiation Laboratory building follows
the SOM tradition. The outside walls will be composed
of concrete slabs 38' high and 6' wide, precast with
rectangular holes in the slabs into which window glass is
to be put (in reality, to be “zipped”). The slabs will
be transported over 100 miles and hung in place. The
gaskets around the windows will be of neoprene. The
gaskets between the slabs will be of polyurethane. The
construction is novel and exciting and promises to be
architecturally very impressive.
Very deliberately, the Radiation Laboratory does not
promise to do anything which will have industrial impact.
However, it is interesting to note that both neoprene and
polyurethane were discovered in the Chemistry Depart-
ment of the University of Notre Dame by people who had
a primary interest in fundamental research but a very sec-
ondary interest in possible industrial applications.
The future occupants of the new Radiation Labo-
ratory building are not planning to do anything useful,
as generally accepted by the public. Their aim and mis-
sion is basic research. However, if neoprene and poly-
urethane teach us anything, it is that the intelligent and
devoted scientist, concerned exclusively with basic en-
deavor, nevertheless produces results which are of funda-
mental importance and value and which can acquire
obvious technological utility in the future.
35?®^
M
1





On June 8
1962, Father Hesburgh
livered the commencement address at
de-
the


bW


g



K'' •
4* J
*' " 'xs £
Si
mW
*SR>

Oj,




Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cam-
bridge, Mass. The concluding portion of his
remarks on that occasion should be of
interest to all members of the Notre Dame
family.—Editor.
. . . What do you want from life?
Another way of asking this question is:
What are your values? These values represent
what you really intend to live and work for,
or if needs be, to suffer and die for. These
values define the kind of person you wish to
be, the kind of life you intend to live, the
best hoped-for meaning of your life in the
days ahead. I would suggest some enduring
values that have made human existence
worthwhile in every age and that could
make your life most meaningful in our times.
First of all, commitment to truth in all its
forms: the joy of ever seeking truth, the peace
of finding truth everywhere, the courage of
living truth always. Open-mindedness is the
prelude to this commitment, intellectual hon-
esty is its truest spirit, and purity of life is
essential to both possession of the truth and
commitment to what it demands of us.
Commitment to what is good and excellent.
I mean here no narrowly selfish good, but
that every good and noble inspiration might
find in you a champion and a defender, and
indeed a personification. What is good for
your own moral integrity, yes, but also the
realization that you will often find yourself
and your good in spending yourself and your
talent for the good of others who need you.
To avoid the taint of intellectual and moral
mediocrity, to be willing to stand for some-
thing, even something unpopular, if it is good;
to be willing to be a minority of one if needs
be, this is part of the commitment. But not
to be a neutral where principle is involved, a
moral cipher, a pragmatic compromiser who
easily takes on the protective coloration of
whatever moral environment happens to be
at hand, this also is ruled out by commitment.
Is it too much to expect of you? Anything
less is all too little.
A passion for justice in our times. Again,
not merely justice for yourself, or your family,
or your profession, but especially a passion for
justice as regards those who have few friends
and fewer champions. There are great and
festering injustices in our country and in our
world. You can side step them if you wish,
you can close your eyes and say it is none
of your business. Then remember that free-
dom and equality of opportunity in our times
are quite indivisible. If one class, or nation,
or race of men is not really free, then the free-
dom of all men is endangered. Injustice
breeds more injustice, disorder begets more
disorder. You do not need a suit of armor, or
a white horse, or a sword, but just a sensi-
tivity to justice wherever it is endangered,
a quiet passion to be concerned
tice in our times, a compassion for
for jus-
all men
who suffer injustice, or the fruits of injustice.
Why suggest this to scientists and engineers?
Indeed, why not?
Lastly, I would suggest a value that could
have many names, but the simplest name of
all is Faith. Faith is not an easy virtue for
scientists and engineers who in their own pro-
fession instinctively take nothing on faith.
But in the broader world of man’s total
voyage through time to eternity, faith is not
only a gracious companion, but an essential
guide. Let us face the matter frontally and
in its deepest dimensions. Faith begins with
belief in God, He who is, the ultimate eternal
Source of all else that is: all truth, all good-
ness, all beauty, all justice, all order. Science,
as science, tells us nothing of this, nor does
science deny any of this, unless you take
seriously the prattling of Cosmonaut Titov
about not seeing God while in orbit.
On the other hand, one should observe, as
Whitehead did, that the world of faith is not
uncongenial to science. God is not only a God
of omnipotence and freedom, but also a God
of rationality and order. While He was free
to create or not create a cosmos, and in
choosing to create was free to create this
cosmos or some other, when He did create it
was a cosmos and not a chaos that was
created, since it had to reflect His own per-
fection.
Because God is rational, His work is order-
ly, and because He is free, there is no pre-
dicting absolutely just what that precise order
will be. The world of faith is then a world
congenial to empirical science with its twin
method of observation and experiment. Un-
less there were regularities in the world, there
would be nothing for science to discover, and
being contingent regularities, they must be
open to hypothesis and verified by experimen-
tation. This is the rhythm of modern physics:
experimental expansion and theoretical de-
velopment.
Every year in Vienna, at the Atoms for
Peace Conference, I have to assure my Rus-
sian scientist friends that I do indeed believe
in God and that this does not preclude my be-
lieving in science, too — for entirely different
reasons, but without becoming schizophrenic
about it either. Much would be gained, I be-
lieve, if the scientists and engineers in our
day were men of faith as well as men of
science. Too long has there been an imagined
chasm between the very real values of the
physical and spiritual worlds. Faith I take
to be a gift of God, but one that is amen-
able to rational foundations and prayerful
preparation. It is not just a blind leap into
the dark on no evidence whatever. It is
rather a luminous opening on another world,
that adds new personal dimensions to one’s
life and wider vistas to one’s highest en-
deavors, in science or in any other field of in-
tellectual interest. For these reasons, I have
added faith to my list of the values that make
life more meaningful.
^y.

1
9

3
«


SR!
&
1
\ J
^5^ JRj
I
S8

&


*
anwi 4962
DELIVERS
PRINCIPAL ADDRESS AT
AZOV'S—John T. Frederick
(center) retiring professor of
English and head of the
department of English at
Notre Dame receives an
honorary Doctor of Letters
degree from Rev. Theodore
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., while
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce,
C.S.C., adjusts the
academic cape.
RIGHT—Professor Milton
Burton, director of the
Universityjs Radiation
Laboratory, receives the $500
_ Lay Faculty Award for
distinguished service to the
University from Father
Hesburgh.

On June 3, a total of 1,378 degrees were awarded
to graduates of the University of Notre Dame during the
University’s 117th annual commencement exercises.
The graduates, which included 148 master’s and 41
doctor’s degree recipients, heard former United States
U.N. Ambassador Henry Cabot Lodge deliver the com-
mencement address calling for the establishment of “a
confederation of the nations of the whole free world.”
Ambassador Lodge said at the conclusion of his re-
marks, “. . . With such global issues at stake, regional
or continental organizations of nations, though they
might be stepping stones to a larger confederation, seem
inadquate — if they remain purely regional. Also, or-
ganizations where every nation, large and small, has one
vote — and one veto — cannot cope. And the United
Nations, although utterly indispensable, is the place where
(Continued on page 18)
LOWER LEFT—Most Rev. Paul J. Hallinan, recently installed as the first Archbishop of
Atlanta and a 1932 Notre Dame graduate, is escorted from the altar by Rev. Chester A.
Soleta, C.S.C. Archbishop Hallinan was celebrant of the Mass for graduates and their
guests on the morning of commencement day and delivered the baccalaureate sermon.
BELOW—The 1962 honorary degree recipients pose with University President Father Hes-
burgh. They are: (first row, I. to r.) Henry Cabot Lodge; Mrs. Fiank J. Lewis, Chicago,
III.; Father Hesburgh; Archbishop Hallinan; Judge James Skelly Wright, U.S. Court of
Appeals, Washington, D.C.; (second row) Frederick Seitz, president of the National Academy
of Sciences and head of the department of Physics at the University of Illinois, Uibana. 111.;
Teodoro Moscoso, U.S. coordinator, Alliance for Progress; Frank M. Fieimann, president of
the Magnavox Co., bort Wayne, Ind.; Dr. Peter Debye, Nobel Prize winner and professor
emeritus of chemistry at Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.; and Piofessor Frederick.
Jwhe b^a/meh
Rev. Patrick Peyton, c.s.c.,
Travels the World With
Family Rosary Crusade
A South American family joins Father Peytor
in recitation of the rosary during recent crusade
By James O'Shea
Notre Dame lias manv sons who have seen the four
corners of the world during their tours of duty with the
armed forces of our nation.
Few have, however, said the Rosary with Hindus in
India, Negroes in Kenya, Eskimos of the north country,
people from each of the five continents of the globe.
Notre Dame’s lad from County Mayo, Ireland, Rev.
Patrick Peyton, C.S.C., has done this and more during
the more than twenty years of his priesthood dedicated
to the glory of God and spread of devotion to His Blessed
Mother in the Rosary.
How are things in Glocamora? Father Peyton can
tell you. He has been there, and most every other nook
and cranny in between. It is not the extent of his travels,
the names in his phone book, the lists of his movie credits,
the frequency of his interviews, the circle of friends —
large and small, grand and lowly — that make him
unique. He is welcome at the homes of million-record
recording stars, million-dollar picture movie stars, net-
work tycoons, industrialists, financiers — men of the
world. But it is the record that counts, and this record
proves that fame has not changed Father Pat Peyton,
Notre Dame ’37. His spiritual message and its effect
on the life of the families, parishes, homes and nations
that it has reached has been astounding.
No Holds Barred
All is fair in love and war, they say, and in the
spiritual combat for souls, no holds are barred. Father
Peyton has used every conceivable means of communica-
tion, publicity, propaganda and persuasion. He has a
small dedicated organization of priests and volunteer
workers who use a cell technique to reach every parish,
block, town and city in a crusade area. Like an incom-
ing tide, they dominate every medium of communication
with the one message until it permeates the consciousness
and conscience of every Christian with ears to hear and
eyes to read with. And it works with a vengeance!
Last fall on a Sunday in San Francisco, while the
49’ers were playing at home, while the World Series
was on TV, over 500,000 people went to the polo field
to hear Father Peyton, to pray the Rosary, to dedicate
themselves to family prayer.
In February in Manila, the Philippines, three-quar-
9

ters of a million Filipinos flocked to hear Father Peyton
preach on the Family Rosary during the first half of
his Rosary Crusade.
More than 40,000 attended the first rally at Balanga
in the Bataan peninsula. A crowd of well over 50,000
jammed the rally grounds at Cabanatuan, also on the
island of Luzon.
200,000 At Rally
Then a rally in San Fernando, 35 miles northwest
of Manila, drew at least 200,000. Thousands of these
people took the route of the Bataan Death March.
Some of them came from Capas where the American
and Filipino soldiers who survived the march were in-
terned by the Japanese invaders.
More than 400,000 came to hear the Irish-born Holy
Cross priest speak at Iloilo City. This was the largest
crowd ever assembled on the Island of Panay.
Many men and women walked throughout the night
to reach the rally. The railroad improvised a shuttle
service to handle the crowds, but hundreds clambered
to the roofs of the railway cars to avoid being left behind.
A rally in Panay’s mountainous province of Antique
brought more than 40,000 pilgrims. Among them was
a woman 110 years old who set out from her remote
mountain home the day before the rally, bringing with
her four great-great-grandchildren. The youngest was a
girl of five.
The ancient lady and her young wards walked 11
hours to reach the highway to the rally. They crossed
streams at least 20 times.
Father Peyton also made a brief trip to Colombia
to prepare for a Rosary Crusade there before resuming
his preaching in the Philippines.
This was Father Peyton’s second crusade in the
Philippines. The Philippines Herald recalled his earlier
visit in one of the many editorials by which newspapers
welcomed Father Peyton back to the islands.
The Herald said: “Father Peyton — a name greatly
loved and respected by many Filipinos — brought the
Family Rosary Crusade here for the first time several
years ago.”
“It has since become an integral part of Catholic
life in the country, binding families together in prayer
and inspiring an increasing number of people to re-
cite the Rosary daily, as the ‘most potent weapon’ they
could avail of in ‘winning for them and their loved
ones the gift of peace that God has bestowed.’ ”
Recently, a new national headquarters for the Family
Father Peyton's recent crusade in San
	
Rosary Theatre was opened in Los Angeles . . . the gift
of the John J. Raskob Foundation, it will serve as the
production and distribution center for the Family Theatre
radio programs and films with an estimated contact with
25'000,000 persons per year.
On Radio Free Europe
The rating of the Family Theatre program over Radio
Free Europe shows that it is the second most popular
program broadcast behind the Iron Curtain — the first
is a news program. Basically, the format is a dramatic
sketch with famous Hollywood and European stars il-
lustrating some moral topic and family problem resolved
with the aid of family prayer and faith.
Pope John XXIII has blessed the Family Rosary
work of Father Peyton in these words,
“ . . . The undertaking of such a step has given
us paternal joy. Everything which tends to in-
crease devotion to the Mother of God, and at the
same time make more devout the Faithful, re-
echoes in Our Soul feelings of joy ...”
Notre Dame has many success stories among its
alumni, and is proud of them all. Surely, Father Peyton’s
is in the Horatio Alger tradition, but I am sure he would
prefer to say, the tradition of St. Paul.
Father Pat Peyton came to this land in the early
ra m i in
Cardinal McIntyre blesses the new Family
Theatre building recently built in Hollywood
to help promote devotion to the Family Rosary.
Father Peyton conducts Family Rosary
Crusade in Front of state capitol building
in St. Paul, Minnesota.
1920’s, another rawboned Irish lad with dreams of gold
and fortunes to be made “buyin’ and sellin’ real estate.”
But it was the trolley cars of Scranton that were for the
likes of him, big, strong and Irish. A mission by the
Holy Cross Fathers decided his vocation, and he was off
to Notre Dame and the long seminary studies. TB
flattened him, but Father Con Hagerty told him to pray
to Our Lady, and to rely on her and fight. He did, and
consecrated his priesthood to her honor. He won and
was ordained by dispensation in the same class as his
brother, Tom, also a Holy Cross priest.
A lot of real estate, good and bad, has been sold
since Father Pat stepped out of the market. The price
of souls has always been high, and it takes a sharp
trader to get some of the more reluctant sellers to admit
there is really a hell of a way to live. To convince them,
Father Pat has used the power of communal family
prayer, the Family Rosary, blessed in tradition, hallowed
in maces,
o
If life for many is a three-ring circus of pleas, ex-
hortations, promotions, productions, and campaigns to
buy this or sell that, Father Pat uses the devil’s own tricks
to outwit him. And so he has said,
“There is no greater hope for earth than the
sight of father, mother, brothers and sisters on
their knees together in the quiet of their home
saying the Rosary. On their lips, the Words of
God ... In their hearts, the Love of Mary . . .
Within their home, all the special graces and
blessings God pours on those who make their
home a home of the daily Family Rosary.”
County Mayo’s gift to Notre Dame is Notre Dame’s
gift to the world. Notre Dame with its research in
atomic energy and germ-free life, its scholars, seminars,
and computers, still knows that prayer is the heart of
all action, the family the root of all society, and the
home the rock of the nation. To warm this heart, to
root this family, and anchor these homes, it sends its
son, Father Patrick Peyton, C.S.C., whose big brogans
have tramped the globe and whose large hands have
raised the Rosary in benediction over countless thousands
of the sons of God.
WE ARE FREQUENTLY ASKED ABOUT HAVING MASSES
Masses are promptly offered by Holy Cross Priests
on the Notre Dame Campus in:
The Main Church — Sacred Heart Church
The many Chapels in the basement Church
The Altars in Corby Hall
In the chapels of 17 Residence Halls
•
Priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross are most happy
to take care of your intentions.
Please send Mass intentions to:
Superior of Corby Hall	Alumni Office
c/o Rev. Ferdinand Brown, C.S.C. . c/o Rev. T. J. O’Donnell, C.S.C.
University of Notre Dame	01 University of Notre Dame
Notre Dame Indiana	Notre Dame, Indiana
COVER — Some will recognize the design immediately. Others will recall
it during their next visit to the Notre Dame campus. It’s symbolic of the
roof of the geodesic Stepan Center, recently erected north of the Notre Dame
Memorial Library site. Art by A. C. Balmer.
OFFERED ON THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS
12
NOTRE DAME
From Bach to Irving Berlin ...
The Notre Dame Glee Club
Sings Everything, Everywhere
By Thomas H. DeLay
God . . . Country . . . and Notre Dame.
This traditional motto is the hallmark of a spirit
unchanging even though the campus skyline changes to
make room for a newer and greater University. No mat-
ter what new building an alumnus might find himself
in, he will hear in its corridors the echoes of the strains
of a song which symbolizes a great University to a great
country — the Notre Dame Victory March. And through-
out that country many people have been introduced to
that song by one of Notre Dame’s finest student organiza-
tions, the Notre Dame Glee Club.
The Notre Dame Glee Club’s national prestige has
grown tremendously since its beginning in 1915. Travel-
ing thousands of miles each year, singing from coast-to-
coast and border-to-border, they have entertained mil-
lions from the concert stage, and on radio and television.
The Notre Dame Glee Club, now celebrating its
47th birthday, was originally organized in 1915 by Ward
Perrot, a law student, to sing for informal song-fests.
For many years the Glee Club was confined to making
appearances on campus where it entertained at various
school functions.
In 1928, under the direction of Prof. Joseph J.
Gasasanta, the Irish choraliers were organized and they
undertook their first major tour — a trip to the West
Coast. In the ensuing years the Club progressed a great
deal in showmanship, choral technique, interpretation,
and acquired a varied repertoire.
Professor Daniel H. Pedtke assumed the duties of
Glee Club director and coordinator in 1938. Before com-
ing to Notre Dame he had enjoyed a distinguished career
in vocal and instrumental music.
A pupil of such outstanding musicians as Alexander
Raab and Sergei Tarnowsky, Mr. Pedtke studied at the
Bush and American Conservatories of Music, besides
earning degrees at the Universities of DePaul and Chi-
cago. Today, Professor Pedtke is well known for his ef-
fective innovations with all-men choruses, as well as an
outstanding composer, conductor, teacher and leader;
but most important, he is liked and respected by former
and present Glee Club members, and is affectionately re-
ferred to as “The Dean” by all Glee Clubbers.
Last fall, 77 former Glee Club members turned out
for an impromptu “reunion” at Dean Pedtke’s home
just north of the University following the Notre Dame-
Navy football game. And as was true during their under-
graduate years, the Glee Club alumni were at their best
singing under the direction of Professor Pedtke, whose
magical hands capture the spirit of every musical of-
fering from Bach to Irving Berlin.
Between 1948 and 1955, the Notre Dame Glee Club
was featured every Easter Sunday on Ed Sullivan’s
TV show, “Toast of the Town.” In 1950, before an
audience of 20,000 in Chicago stadium, the Glee Club
sang a benefit with movie stars, Pat O’Brien and Ann
Blyth.
13
Professor Daniel H. Pedtke
Glee Club Director since 1938
While visiting Jackson, Miss., Glee Club
President John Crowe presents memento
to Mrs. Patrick Harkins who
provided lunch for the University songsters.
The Club entertained their largest non-TV audience,
85,000 people, at the Philadelphia Music Festival in
1953, when they appeared with Jeanette MacDonald, Jose
Ferrer, Eddie Fisher, and with Arthur Fiedler directing
the Robin Hood Dell Orchestra in Philadelphia’s Mu-
nicipal Stadium.
In recent years, the Club has been heard on several
CBS, NBC and Mutual network radio programs. In ad-
dition, they have recorded an album of religious songs
with MGM.
Last year, 1960-61, the Club had one of its most
successful years. They toured the East Coast during the
Thanksgiving holidays; Virginia and Ohio during the
semester break in January; and made an extensive tour
of the West Coast during the Easter vacation, appearing
in Phoenix, Las Vegas, San Francisco, Los Angeles,
Disneyland, San Diego and Long Beach.
Today the Notre Dame Glee Club is composed of 90
students, 40 of whom travel after being chosen on the
5	o
basis of voice, knowledge of music, and general character.
The 1961-62 officers of the Glee Club were John W.
Crowe, Eden, N.Y., president; Frederic W. Weber,
Rochester, Minn., vice president; Thomas W. Fabish,
Garden City, N.Y., secretary; P. Nicholas Harkins, Jack-
son, Miss., treasurer; William C. Weinsheimer, Chicago,
Ill., business manager; and Thomas H. DeLay, Norfolk,
Nebr., publicity manager.
Unique among major college glee clubs, the Notre
Dame Glee Club is entirely student managed. The of-
ficers, guided by Prof. Daniel Pedtke, arranged the de-
tails of every appearance, be it a pep rally, an intermis-
sion program in the Student Center, a one-night stand
in Chicago, or a two-week tour of the Southern states.
This past year — 1961-62 — the “Singing Irish”
toured the New York City area during the Thanksgiving
week end where two concerts were successfully sponsored
by the Notre Dame Club of New York. They also made
an extensive two-week concert tour of Florida, Missis-
sippi, Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky and Ohio, during the
spring vacation.
A group of “Singing Irish” enjoy the
swimming pool at a Ft. Lauderdale motel
during concert tour break.
With the Morris Inn in the background,
the tired Glee Clubbers
disembark at the Notre Dame Circle.
14 NOTRE DAME
Director Pedtke is welcomed at airport
by Glee Club members who
arrived earlier via chartered bus.

Waiting for their chartered bus, Glee Club members
stand at a typical hotel entrance prior to departing
into the night for one more concert in another town.
In addition to making two major tours this year, the
Glee Club has appeared for several week-end engage-
ments in Indiana and Michigan, and given joint concerts
with Maryville College of the Sacred Heart in St. Louis;
Ursuline College For Women in Cleveland; and the
University of Illinois Varsity Men’s Glee Club in Cham-
paign, Ill.
In preparing for next year’s concert tours, the Glee
Club elected new officers before departing for summer
vacation. Each of the officers will be anxious to hear
from alumni and friends of the University who may be
interested in sponsoring an appearance of the Glee Club
in their city during the 1962-63 school year. The new
officers are: P. Nicholas Harkins, Jackson, Miss., presi-
dent; Gerald A. Witt, Long Beach, Gal., vice president;
David M. Stasa, Owosso, Mich., secretary; Mark S. Laboe,
Monroe, Mich., treasurer; Thomas W. Fabish, Garden
City, N.Y., business manager; and Philip J. Jones, Wil-
mette, Ill., publicity manager.
The concert stage is not the only place where mem-
bers of the Notre Dame Glee Club entertain. For many
years the Club has given a special Christmas concert for
the orphanages and nursing homes in the South Bend
area. On concert tour Club members enjoy giving im-
promptu concerts in such places as the beaches of Fort
Lauderdale, a night club in Las Vegas, a reception in
New York, or singing for their dinners in a restaurant.
Often, Club members are found bringing happiness to
the ill in hospitals, or serenading a girls’ school. But for
their most important off-stage performance, the Club
provides the singing for Sunday Masses when on tour.
Thus, this fine organization represents the greatness
that is Notre Dame to the listening public across the
nation. And this chance to sing for Notre Dame con-
stitutes a rich reward for the long hours of weekly prac-
tice put in by the Club members throughout the year.
In their concert programs the Glee Club begins with
the Ave Maria, progresses to such American classics as
This Is My Country, and traditionally ends with the
Notre Dame Victory March. This program — and group
of young men and performing it — truly embodies the
spirit of, “God . . . Country . . . and Notre Dame.”
With the Manhattan skyline in the
distance, a group of Notre Dame songsters
“sightsee” between concerts.
A Civil War song is sung by
Notre Dame Glee Club soloist clad in
white tie, tails and fatigue hat.
15
Nolle Danie's Laetaie Medal lor 1962 was awarded
to Di. Fiancis J. Bi aceland. psychiatrist in chief at the
Institute foi Living. Hartfoid. Connecticut.
Di. Bi aceland is the first psychiatiist to icceive this
spe< ia! award of the Univeisitv of Notre Dame which
has been given to an outstanding Catholic layman an-
nually since 1883. He is. however, the eighth physician
to leieive tin* honor, which is announced each year on
Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday in Lent.
In announcing Dr. Bi aceland's award. Rev. Theodore
M. Hesbmgh. C.S.C.. said, “As a physician, educator
and naval officer. Dr. Braceland has served with rare
distinction. Tlnoughout his professional life he has ex-
emplified tin* competence ol modern medical science and
a compassion born of his ancient Christian faith. In these
times of prolonged anxieties and tensions, he symbolizes
the concern of psychiatry and the Church for those who
are troubled in mind and spirit.”
In addition to his duties with the Institute for Liv-
ing. Dr. Brat eland is a clinical professor of psychiatry at
Yah* University. He was president of the* American
Psychiatric Association in 1956.
The Laetaie Medal was presented to Dr. Braceland
at the 1962 Commencement exercises and on that oc-
tasion Di. Braceland said. ”... Magnanimity, that is
the word for Notre Dame’s action today, for she has
chosen to honor a representative of a medical specialty
not too often singled out for approbation. The youngest
of medical disciplines, it treats of man’s oldest ills and
yet it is often icgai ded with hostility and suspicion. As
you honor a representative of psychiatry today, therefore,
you do something which would have widespread reper-
< ussions and it can only redound to the benefit of
patients, families and practitioners alike ...”
Throughout the years, Notre Dame has recognized
the many contributions of Catholic* doctors to the better-
1962 Laetare Medal
ment of mankind. The total ol eight doctor, awarded
the Laetare Medal exceeds all other professions includ-
ing law and education.
The first doctor to receive the Laetare Medal was
Thomas Addis Emmett in 1897. The Notre Dame Alum-
nae of June 1933 said of this famous gynecologist, “He
probably saved more pain and suffering to women from
the* unfortunate results of complications in the precious
process of motherhood than any other man who lived.’'
In 1902, Dr. John Benjamin Murphy, world-renowned
for his inventions, discoveries and observations in sur-
gery, was the Laetare Medal recipient. At the Inter-
national Medical Congress of Medicine in Moscow in
1897. Dr. Murphy was declared the “greatest surgeon
for the last 300 years.” Dr. Murphy was president of
the1 American Medical Association and the American
College of Surgeons.
The 1906 Laetare Medalist was Dr. Francis J. Quin-
lan. a specialist in diseases of the eye. ear. nose and
tin oat.
In 1916, Dr. James Joseph Walsh was named. Dr.
Walsh was former dean of the Fordham University-
Medical School and author of more than 50 books on
medicine, religion and history. He also served as medical
editor of the New York Herald and was an outspoken
ciitic of birth control.
Dr. Lawrence Francis Flick received the Laetare
Medal in 1920. In waging a vigorous fight in his life-
time to reduce the mortality rate from tuberculosis. Dr.
Flick organized several tubercular hospitals in the United
States. In addition, he founded the American Catholic
Historical Society* in 1884.
The Laetare Medal for 1932 went to Dr. Stephen
J. Maher, of New Haven, Connecticut. Dr. Maher also
gained fame in his efforts to wipe out tuberculosis as the
nation's greatest “killer disease.”
The most recent doctor to receive the Leatare Medal
from the University of Notre Dame prior to this year
was Dr. Irvin William Abell in 1938. Dr. Abell, who
practiced in Louisville. Kentucky, had a long and dis-
tinguished career in surgery. He served as president of
16
NOTRE DAME
Univeisitv of Notie Danie at it'. 117th
1962-
belie te it has inizitzb’i that you
“W,
be tilth us at Xotie Dann in order to
•o doing, add to out re oiling. The Laetare
in
a Sunday didiiated to
.Mt dal is announced on
the
of mental
most noted unit is
things you haz i
to us that you haze
of gnat significance
.Medal for Mid.
its honors, the Lactate
b\ the
annual
made manifest something
namely that Science and
you a master and
most eminent of
than that
ezeiything
to pioze
been de-
to assuage
not done
you hat e
you tould
other
tee do
should
tee tit e
the anguish of
disguises zt Im h
But Ze hen Zee
Christian faith complement each othei be st zc hen
they an united in one pc non. In this you haze
resembled Fasteui.
he alth.
•‘The se
anything
te i mined
that a Catholic uni-
stizice of Faith and of
"It is most suitable
zersity de die a'cd to the
The Citation atcontpaiiMi.t: ’the Laetaie Medal
fot 19(>2 piesented to Di Kiantis J. Btateland
toy in a
comment enient exentses June 3
the noblest emb:em of esteem zee can gilt and.
human suffering in that of its
is perhaps most akin to despair
think of those zi ho because ol
Science should n cognize in
therefore e outer on you the
se Ison Ze hull probes deeply into the
you note stand erect after hating been bent
double ruth infirmity of the spint, it does seem
1938 and also contributed greatly to the
the A.M.A. in


meaning of lite. It is titling that zie should
remember this today.
"You hue spent your years in tin 'tudy of
the mystny of man's spirit, seeking to under-
stand as' only a gifted physician can that ezery
humin bung is a zeoild unto himself, unfathom-
able' and changing, ea-like in storm izen as
in tranquillity. Knotting and lezcnncing the
truth that each one is also God's child, hkezcisc
bclozed from eternity, you hate' also seen many
lose' their nay in strange abysses of doubt and
illusion. Your hand has been held out to them
■— the hand blest by Christian purpose as ziell
as by the science of heal.ng.
“.tf a distinguishc d practitioner of psychiatric
medicine' you hate mastered .ihatezei .science
can prozide by it ay of insight and experience.
Indeed, you haze contributed to the enrichment
of that science in distinguished and memorable
nays, 1 ou hate also taught it m gnat uniter-
sities, Minnesota, Loxo'a and Pcnnsyltania among
them You haze directed admirably one of the


development of Kentucky’s eleemosynary institutions
caring foi the sick and infirm.
The addition of Dr. Francis J. Braceland this year to
this distinguished list of Catholic physicians who have re-
ceived the Laetare Medal is in keeping with the tradition
of the award. As the citation presented to General 'Wil-
liam Starke Rosecrans in 1896 states, “The Laetare Medal
has been worn only by men and women whose genius
has ennobled the arts and sciences, illustrated the ideals
of the dim ch. and emiched the heritage of humanitv.’'
COMMENCEMENT—1962
(Continued from page 8)
the free world and the Communists meet and is not the
free world forum where the forces of freedom can be
rallied.
“With these and many other considerations in mind,
perhaps we should now be thinking of a confederation
of the nations of the whole free world. Its beginning
might be a relatively compact group, because experience
has shown that an organization of large numbers of
nations is cumbersome and incapable either of prompt
and effective reaction or of well-planned initiative. Such a
coalition should not be limited to any region, because
the problems today are world-wide. Japan, for example,
would be as integral a member as a big NATO nation.
If some nations found themselves unable to join, so be it.
The group, like the sheriff’s posse of old, could start with
those who were willing and able.
“I am not suggesting that such a group would be
exclusive, but its nucleus might be those free nations
with a high degree of economic sophistication as revealed
in such factors as national per capita income.
“As all free, modernized nations worked together
toward common objectives, they would most certainly
find a close and growing association with the lesser-de-
veloped countries — and these, in turn, would have a
place to which they could go for support as they them-
selves progress.
“A center of responsibility would be fixed. The coali-
tion would be based on the proposition that it would
be a good thing for all the free world — the small and
poor nations as well as the big and rich — if there were
one place in the world where power and responsibility
meet. There is no such place today. Indeed there is no
free world forum anywhere in the world.
“The coalition’s headquarters would have to be ad-
ministered by leading statesmen of the member nations,
with adequate staff. The coalition might have a Secre-
tary General — a Dag Hammarskjold, if such could be
found, whose single-minded preoccupation would be free
world unity. The coalition might adopt some such name
as the Confederation of the Free.
“The coalition’s function would be unified action.
One purpose would be not only to thwart Soviet economic
and subversive offensives, but, for its own sake, to aid
the underdeveloped countries. Education, effective ac-
tion against poverty and disease, technical knowledge and
machinery, realistic planning — these would be some of
the ways in which help would be given. Another purpose
would be energetic forward planning, notably about Sino-
Soviet relations. Had there been forward planning five
years ago about Africa, much division among the free
world would have been avoided. The coalition would
also originate the tactics which the Communists’ waging
of the Cold War forces on us.
“But the basic aim would be to get a deep commit-
ment to the idea of timely and effective unified action.
If such a commitment existed, more ambitious actions
would become possible ...”

(Continued from page 2)
Dean Joseph O’Meara and other Notre Dame officials
to review the law school’s progress and programs.
•	Dr. W. J. Wagner, associate professor of law at
the University of Notre Dame addressed faculty
members and students at the Air Force Institute of
Technology, Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio, on
“Peaceful Settlement of International Disputes and
Historical Reality.”
Q Stig M. Claesson, professor of physical chemistry
and director of the Institute of Physical Chemistry
at the University of Uppsala, Sweden, gave a three-
day lecture series on “High Intensity Photochemis-
try” at Notre Dame in April as part of the Peter
C. Reilly Lecture series.
® Dr. Dietrich Bodenstein, professor and head of
the department of biology at the University of
Virginia, delivered. Nieuwland Lectures in Biology
at the University of Notre Dame recently.
•	Dr. Sperry E. Darden, assistant professor of
physics at the University of Notre Dame, has been
awarded a two-year unrestricted research grant by
the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation of New York City.
He will conduct neutron polarization experiments
as part of his department’s research in low energy
nuclear physics. Another Notre Dame scientist,
Dr. Louis Pierce, assistant professor of chemistry,
received a similar fellowship last year. He is con-
tinuing his’ study of molecular structure through
the use of microwave spectroscopy.
•	Lt. Gen. Arthur G. Trudeau, U.S.A., Chief of
Research and Development, United States Army,
addressed an assembly of students and attended
a dinner during a recent visit to the University of
Notre Dame in March.
•	Dr. Robert J. Lordi, assistant professor of Eng-
lish at the University of Notre Dame, has been
awarded a research fellowship by the Folger Shake-
speare Library, Washington, D.C.
•	A two-year study of the political history of the
Third Congressional District of Indiana will be un-
dertaken by Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, professor of
political science at the University of Notre Dame.
His research, which will get under way this sum-
mer, will cover the history of Democratic and Re-
publican party activity in St. Joseph, Elkhart,
Marshall and LaPorte counties from the turn of
the century to the present.
•	An insight into “what makes a Catholic tick”
is provided in The Catholic Way of Life^ a new book
by Rev. John A. O’Brien, research professor of
theology at the University of Notre Dame.
•	Two members of the University of Notre Dame
18 NOTRE DAME

debating team, Christopher Lane, Yonkers, N.Y.,
and James Murray, Pittsburgh, Pa., appeared on
“Championship Debate” over the NBC Television
Network on March 17.
A superb group of 51 paintings by the Old
Masters, from the Clowes Fund Collection, Indian-
apolis, Ind., were exhibited during a Lenten Show
at the University of Notre Dame Gallery. The ex-
hibition featured works by the foremost artists of
the 14th through the 18th centuries, including
such works as El Greco’s paintings of Saints Simon,
Matthew and Luke, Lucas Cranach’s “Crucifixion”
and “Ecce Homo” by Bosch. Other artists repre-
sented at the Notre Dame exhibition include Bellini,
Velazques, Goya, Zurbaran, Van der Weyden,
Rubens, Nardi, Reynolds, Constable, Hals, Rem-
brandt, Holbein, Cloust, Titian, Durer and Duccio.
The University of Notre Dame has received
permission to microfilm the entire manuscript col-
lection of the famed Ambrosian Library in Milan.
The mammoth microfilming project, which will cost
an estimated $500,000 and require several years to
complete, will be under the direction of Prof. A.
L. Gabriel, head of the University’s Mediaeval
Institute. For the first time more than 30,000 clas-
sical, mediaeval and Renaissance manuscripts will
be readily accessible in America to scholars and
libraries. The collection will be housed in the
thirteen-story, $8,000,000 Notre Dame Memorial
Library now under construction.
Dr. Bert F. Hoselitz, professor of social science
at the University of Chicago, delivered a Cardinal
O’Hara Memorial Lecture at Notre Dame on “The
Social Implication of Economic Development: The
Impact of Industry.”
Research grants totalling more than $90,000
have recently been awarded to scientists in Notre
Dame’s biology department and its Lobund Lab-
oratories, according to Prof. Ralph E. Thorson, de-
partment head. The grants will support cancer and
hepatitis research and continuing studies on the
nutrition of germfree animals.
Nine Notre Dame seniors have been awarded
fellowships for the first year of graduate study by
the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Founda-
tion of Princeton, N.J. The new Woodrow Wilson
fellows and the graduate fields they will enter are:
Edmund Burke III, Greenwich, Conn., Near Eastern
Studies; Michael L. Iribarne, San Rafael, Calif.,
Slavic Literature; William J. Irvin, Memphis, Tenn.,
English; Richard J. Jensen, Tucson, Ariz., Ameri-
can Studies; William P. Moran, Tulsa, Okla.,
physics; Paul A. O’Bryan, Jr., Kedsington, Md.,
English; Michael F. Pajak, Jr., Chicopee, Mass.,
Linguistics; William R. Veeder, Arlington, Va.,
English; and Michael J. Zwetter, Upland, Calif.,
Middle Eastern Studies.
® Rev. John H. Miller, C.S.C., assistant professor
of theology at Notre Dame and a specialist in the
liturgy of the Roman Catholic Church, appeared
on the “Look Up and Live” program on the CBS
Television Network February 25 and March 4. He
discussed various aspects of the liturgy with John
B. Mannion, executive secretary of The North
American Liturgical Conference.
•	Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., head of the depart-
ment of art, was the author of an illustrated
article on sacred sculpture by contemporary
American artists in a recent issue of CATHOLIC
BUILDING AND MAINTENANCE. His essay
was entitled, “New Chords from Olden Harps Re-
called,” and examined the sculpture of Hillis
Arnold, Deris Caesar, Jean de Marco, Koren der
Harootian, Oleb Derujinsky, Alfco Faggi, and
Henry Kreis. It also described the work of Oronzio
Maldarelli, the late Ivan Mestrovic, Suzanne Nicho-
las, Henry Rox, Charles Umlauf and Jane Wasey.
•	Dr. William F. D’Antonio, assistant professor of
sociology, has been awarded a $1,000 grant by the
Social Science Research Council for a summer study
of local elections in northern Mexico.
•	Comedian Bob Hope received the ninth annual
Patriotism Award of Notre Dame’s senior class on
Feb. 27. Hope accepted the award and delivered
an address during the University’s traditional
Washington’s Birthday Exercises in the Notre
Dame Gymnasium.
•	Dr. Robert E. Gordon, editor of the University
of Notre Dame’s AMERICAN MIDLAND NATU-
RALIST, participated in a Conference of Biological
Editors held in New Orleans, La., under the spon-
sorship of the American Institute of Biological
Sciences.
•	Funeral services were held in Sacred Heart
Church on March 3 for Rev. Robert J. Sheehan,
C.S.C., 62, former head of Notre Dame’s depart-
ment of biology, who died in Holy Cross House on
the campus February 28. Father Sheehan headed
the biology department from 1945 to 1955 and
had devoted his full time to teaching since then.
He was a specialist in histology and medical ethics.
• Two faculty members have been appointed to
the newly created post of assistant dean of fresh-
men, according to an announcement by Rev. Chester
A. Soleta, C.S.C., vice-president for academic af-
fairs. They are Rev. Daniel J. O’Neil, C.S.C., as-
sistant professor of theology, and Vincent R.
Raymond, assistant professor of business organiza-
tion and management. Father O’Neil and Professor
Raymond will aid Dr. William M. Burke, dean of
freshmen, in the administration of the new Fresh-
man Year of Studies which becomes operative in
September.
• Dr. Emil T. Hoffman, assistant professor of
chemistry at Notre Dame, addressed the New
Orleans Archdiocesan Teachers’ Institute on the
subject, “Pre-Service and In-Service Training of
High School Science Teachers.”
19
oauL
P. 0. Box 436
State College
C-minus ,
375days
Just like Cape Canaveral, there's a
"Count-down" going on at Notre Dame.
It does, in fact, count the days which re-
main in the "Challenge" campaign to raise
$18,000,000, so vitally needed for the future
growth of this great Catholic institution of
higher learning.
Many of Notre Dame's alumni and
friends have already met this challenge
with generous gifts, which are "matched"
on a one-for-two basis by the Ford Foun-
dation grant.
Some have not yet responded to the
University's call for participaiton in this
Before June 30, 1963 rolls around, Notre
Dame expects to meet its $18,000,000 Chai-
than $5,300 a day must be received from in-
terested alumni and friends of Notre Dame,
such as yourself, in order to go over the
top.
If you've given already, thanks.
If not, why not today?
Dotre Dame’s
*