To Our beloved son
Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.
President of the University of Notre Dame
Recalling the happy memory of Our visit to your
University, beloved son, and the honorary doctorate
by which We became an alumnus, We gladly send
you Our greetings and felicitations on the dedication
of the new Memorial Library at Notre Dame.
We pray that this additional repository of wisdom
and knowledge may serve as a valuable instrument in
the pursuit of truth and the defense and development
of faith. It will undoubtedly enhance the prestige of
the University, and increase its efficiency in the aca-
demic mission so highly praised by Our illustrious
Predecessor, Benedict XV: "Nothing can be more
opportune than to teach youth in such a way that,
guided by virtue and led by the light of religion, they
may eventually go forth into life to defend, zealously
and wisely, both truth and faith.” (A.A.S. XIII, 1921,
p. 196)
The quest for truth requires freedom; but it must
be borne in mind that the freedom of a Catholic uni-
versity in seeking and spreading truth must always
respect the limits imposed by the law of charity, of
justice, and of human dignity. It is the sacred duty
of Catholic professors and students to follow the
Church’s authentic magisterium in matters of faith and
morals, or in fields intimately connected with either
of these. Nor will this prove to be a detriment to
science or to freedom; rather will it be a safeguard for
the supreme human and Christian values, and exalt
the prestige of the Catholic universities. For, as Our
venerated Predecessor, Pius XII has said: "The term
Catholic does not of itself exclude anything except sin
and error; indeed, it embraces the entire field of intel-
ligence, and the whole of life throughout time and
space. The Apostle Saint Paul in his Letters often
describes the true Catholic spirit: 'Test all things; hold
fast that which is good.’ (I Thess. V, 21)” (Discorsi
e Radiomessaggi, XVI, p. 960).
Rejoicing, therefore, on the inauguration of the new
Memorial Library, and praying that it will contribute
richly to the advancement of truth, We invoke upon
the University of Notre Dame an abundance of illu-
minating divine graces; and, in pledge thereof, We
lovingly bestow upon you, beloved son, and impart to
the professors, students and personnel, Our particular
paternal Apostolic Blessing.
From the Vatican, November 19, 1963.
• EDITOR: JOHN H. JANOWSKI
NOTRE DAME VOL. 17, No. 2, SPRING-SUMMER, 1964
Published quarterly by the University of Notre
Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second
class matter May 10, 1928, at Post Office at Notre
Dame, Indiana, under the act of August 24, 1912.
2 NOTRE DAME
Notre Dame Memorial Library
Dedication Ceremonies Impressive
The Notre Dame Memorial Library, the world’s larg-
est college library building, was dedicated on May 7 with
solemn religious rites and colorful academic ceremonies
that attracted an audience of nearly 5,000 persons.
Eminent prelates and distinguished educators figured
prominently in several events marking the dedication of
the thirteen-story building which dominates a new mall
on the University of Notre Dame campus. The $8 million
library was made possible by gifts from more than 23,000
individuals and organizations whose names will be in-
scribed in its foyer.
The first of the dedication day events was an outdoor
Solemn Pontifical Mass celebrated by Eugene Cardinal
Tisserant, Dean of the Sacred College of Cardinals and
Prefect of the Vatican Library. Albert Cardinal Meyer,
Archbishop of Chicago, delivered the sermon during the
Mass which was offered on the mall in front of the
library. Another Prince of the Church, Joseph Cardinal
Ritter, Archbishop of Saint Louis, blessed the new library
following the afternoon convocation.
Dr. Grayson Kirk, president of Columbia University,
and Dr. Herman B Wells, Chancellor of Indiana Univer-
sity, gave addresses at major dedication events. Kirk was
the principal speaker at the academic convocation on the
mall and Wells addressed the dedication banquet that
evening.
Presidents of 15 colleges and universities, ranging from
Princeton in the East to California in the West, were
among 25 celebrated figures who received honorary de-
grees from Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre
Dame’s president, at the convocation. Representatives
of 200 colleges and universities, learned societies and
educational associations marched in a colorful academic
procession prior to the convocation.
A highlight of the convocation was a message from
Pope Paul VI on the occasion of the library dedication.
It was read by Cardinal Tisserant. The Holy Father, as
Cardinal Montini, visited Notre Dame and received an
honorary degree on June 5, 1960, about a year before
the library construction began.
The dedication banquet was preceded by a reception
in the library foyer and included greetings from repre-
sentatives of the community and several segments of
the University family.
The Notre Dame Glee Club sang at the banquet,
and the Notre Dame Band performed at the reception.
3
PRAYER FOR THE DEDICATION
Lord, Jesus Christ, Word of the Father, Teacher of
Mankind, Sender of the Paraclete, You alone are the Way,
the Truth and the Life.
With the written word You rebuked the tempter in
the desert when You said: “It is written: ‘Not by bread
alone does man live, but by every word that comes forth
from the mouth of God.’ ”
At Your visit with Martha and Mary You commended
the one who listened to Your word and had chosen the
better part.
On the road to Emmaus You made the hearts of
Your disciples bum within them as You explained the
Scriptures concerning Thyself beginning with Moses and
the prophets.
Kindly bless and sanctify this library constructed to
Notre Dame Memorial Library
Opened Sept. 18, 1963; formally dedicated
May 7,1964.
Believed to be the largest college library build-
ing in the world.
Capacity of 2,000,000 volumes; present collec-
tion of more than 500,000 volumes.
Seats 2,900 plus persons, more than half of the
undergraduate students, at one time.
Thirteen stories plus glass-enclosed, roof top
President’s Lounge.
Built of Mankato stone, buff brick and marble.
Ellerbe Architects, St. Paul, Minn.; H. G.
Christman Co., South Bend, contractor.
First and second floors, covering two acres
each, house the College Library, the 200,000 books
used most often by most undergraduates.
Upper floors in the tower section constitute the
Research Library, books and materials most likely
to be used by graduate students and faculty mem-
bers.
Offices for 248 faculty members in the basement.
Also housed in library: University Archives,
Mediaeval Institute, Jacques Maritain Center,
Committee on International Relations, etc.
Librarian: Victor A. Schaefer.
collect, preserve, and make available divine and human
knowledge contained in books, records and documents.
Aid its continued increase in volumes and in depth of
wisdom. May it safely withstand fire, winds, and buffets
of damaging elements, and preserve its wealth from de-
struction by man or time.
Favor with the riches of the sevenfold gift of Thy
Spirit, all who, whether students or teachers, humbly
desire within its walls to taste deeply of the knowledge
of truth and wisdom, or who mine new treasures by ever
advancing methods of research. May they grow in justice,
peace and in love so that the word spoken and written in
time may find fulfillment in truth eternal.
Reward also with Your heavenly favors the munifi-
cence of the donors who in their good will have generously
contributed to the erection of this majestic arena of the
human spirit on the campus of the university dedicated
to Thy Immaculate Mother, Our Lady, Notre Dame du
Lac. May their names be written indelibly in the book
of life for all men and angels to read in the eternal halls
of the blessed. Through Thee, Jesus Christ, Teacher and
Savior of the world, Who livest and reignest, God, for-
ever and ever. Amen.
Joseph Cardinal Ritter
Archbishop of St. Louis
May 7, 1964
Father Hesburgh greets the Dedication guests.
“Word of Life” — Notre Dame Memorial
Library Mural
Dimensions: 132 feet high (from 3rd to 13th
story) and 65 feet wide.
Material: 7,000 pieces of granite, 81 kinds and
171 different finishes, from 16 different countries
and several states in the U.S.
Central figure: Christ the Teacher, surrounded
by His Apostles and a multiplicity of saints and
scholars who have contributed to knowledge thru
the ages.
Head of Christ alone is 9 feet tall, 115 pieces.
Artist: Millard Sheets, Claremont, Calif., who
receives an honorary degree today.
Granite assembled, installed, etc., by Cold Spring
(Minn.) Granite Co.
4 NOTRE DAME
Cardinal Ritter blesses the Memorial Library building.
Symposium-.
The Person in Contemporary Society
A symposium on “The Person in the Contemporary
World” was held in the Memorial Library Auditorium
in conjunction with the dedication ceremonies the fol-
lowing day.
Rev. Chester A. Soleta, G.S.G., vice president for
Academic Affairs, who arranged the symposium, had
as its theme “the person, his sorrow and loneliness but
also his unique dignity and his enduring sense of
identity.”
Dr. Kenneth W. Thompson, vice president of the
Rockefeller Foundation, was chairman of the Notre
Dame symposium, and his Eminence Eugene Cardinal
Tisserant served as its honorary chairman.
French theologian Rev. Louis Bouyer of the Oratory
and the Abbey of Lucerne, la Haye-Pesnel, opened the
symposium with a paper entitled, “Conflicting Christian
Interpretations of the Situation of Man in the World
Today and Their Possible Reconciliation.” Father
Bouyei' has been a professor of spiritual theology at the
Institut Catholique in Paris and a faculty member in
Notre Dame’s Summer Liturgy Program.
The second speaker was Professor John E. Smith,
chairman of the department of Philosophy at Yale Uni-
versity. His address was entitled, “The Person: Solitude
and Community.” Professor Smith is a specialist in
American philosophy and the philosophy of religion and
the author of The Spirit of American Philosophy. He
joined the Yale faculty in 1952 after teaching at Vassar
College, Barnard College, Union Theological Seminary
and the University of Michigan. He was the Dudleian
Lecturer for 1960 at Harvard University and Suarez
Lecturer for 1963 at Fordham University.
In the Wednesday afternoon session two more
speakers appeared at the symposium, Sir Hugh Stott
Taylor and Dr. Dana Farnsworth. Sir Taylor’s address
was entitled “Science and the Person” and Dr. Farns-
worth’s “A Psychiatrist’s View.”
Sir Hugh Taylor, born in England, was a member
of Princeton’s chemistry faculty from 1922 to 1958,
serving as head of the department from 1926 to 1951.
He was also dean of Princeton’s Graduate School for
thirteen years and on retirement became head of the
Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation. He
has received many honors from scientific organizations
in this country and abroad and is a former president of
The Faraday Society and Sigma Xi.
Dr. Farnsworth was named Henry K. Oliver Profes-
sor of Hygiene and director of the Harvard Health
Services in 1954. A Diplomate of the American Board
of Psychiatry and Neurology, he has conducted extensive
research on how college students react to various pres-
sures. He is the author of Mental Health in College
and University.
In the concluding address of the Symposium Dr.
Farnsworth commented as follows:
“Anything that diminishes the human spirit is of spe-
cific concern to the psychiatrist. Everything that enhances
the human spirit is also of interest to him and this con-
cern should be shared by all responsible persons.
“I believe that psychiatry as a discipline is just be-
ginning to realize how important human values are to
the individual looking for a meaning and purpose in his
life. Nearly two centuries ago, the founder of the two
Phillips Academies at Exeter and Andover said, ‘Goodness
without knowledge is weak and feeble, yet knowledge
without goodness is dangerous; both united form the
noblest character and lay the surest foundation of use-
fulness to mankind.’ In the intervening period, we have
seen many tragic results of failure to recognize this prin-
ciple. To continue to ignore it will be perilous indeed.
Perhaps the time has now come to take these words of
wisdom seriously and to use the knowledge we have gained
for the betterment of man.”
5
New York Pro
Musica
Motet Choir
The New York Pro Musica Motet Choir, augmented
by the Abbey Singers, presented a program of Renais-
sance music as a highlight of the Notre Dame Memorial
Library dedication on the evening of May 6.
Conducted since its founding in 1958 by Noah Green-
berg, the Choir models itself on the choral organizations
of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries and performs a
repertory of Renaissance sacred and secular works. Its
program included works by such great figures as Dufay,
Ockeghem, Brumel and Des Prez who composed music
for the leading courts and chapels of France, Italy, Spain
and Flanders.
The Abbey Singers, also organized by Mr. Green-
berg, include soprano Jan DeGaetani, tenor David Dodds,
countertenor John Ferrante, baritone George Papps and
Marvin Hayes, bass. They presented music by several
sixteenth century composers including Lassus, Arcadelt,
Verdelot and Willaert. They joined the Choir for the
evening’s major work, “Missa Mater Patris” by Des Prez.
As a performing musician, lecturer and editor, Mr.
Greenberg has introduced the musical literature of the
five centuries before 1700 to musicians and concert goers
throughout the world. His publications include The Play
of Daniel, An Elizabethan Song Book and An English
Song Book, an anthology of choral music antedating
1650.
A Program of Renaissance Music
I
Kyrie — Guillaume Dufay	(ca. 1400-1474)
Motet Choir
Gloria—Johannes Ockeghem (ca. 1420-ca. 1495)
Motet Choir
Deo Gratias — Pierre de La Rue	(d. 1518)
Motet Choir
>-o<
II
Bergerette Savoyenne — Josquin Des Prez
(ca. 1450-1521)
Abbey Singers
Mignonne, allon voir — Guillaume Costeley
(ca.1531-1606)
Abbey Singers
O vin en vigne— Orlandus Lassus	(1532-1594)
Abbey Singers
Il est bel et bon—Passereau	(fl. ca. 1530)
Abbey Singers
HI
Salve Regina — Martin de Rivaflecha (d. 1528)
Motet Choir and Arthur Burrows
Riu, riu, chiu — Anonymous
4 Men — Brayton Lewis, Soloist
IV
O felici occhi miei — Jacques Arcadelt
(ca. 1504-ca. 1570)
Abbey Singers
Madonna non so dir-—Philippe Verdelot (d. ca. 1540)
Abbey Singers
O bene mio — Adrian Willaert	(ca. 1490-1562)
Abbey Singers
Non e lasso — Cipriano de Rore	(1516-1565)
Abbey Singers
V
A Robin, gentle Robin — William Gornysh
“	(ca. 1468-ca. 1523)
Motet Choir
Quid petys O fili? — Richard Pygott (ca. 1485-1552)
Motet Choir with Abbey Singers
Nowell sing we both all and some —• Anonymous English
(xv century)
Motet Choir
Soloists: John Ferrante and Arthur Burrows
INTERMISSION
VI
Mater patris et filia-—Antoine Brumel
(ca. 1460-ca. 1520)
Motet Choir
Missa Mater Patris — Josquin Des Prez
Motet Choir
Kyrie, Gloria, Credo, Sanctus, Agnus Dei
Soloists: John Ferrante, David Dodds, Arthur Burrows,
and Marvin Hayes
6
NOTRE DAME
The Solemn Pontifical Mass begins on the Library Mall.

The audience as seen from the Radiation Research Bldg.
The procession leaves the Computing Center.
Solemn Pontifical Mass
THE WORD OF LIFE
(Excerpts from the sermon given at the dedication of
the new Notre Dame Memorial Library, May 7, 1964,
by His Eminence, Albert Cardinal Meyer.)
The opening words of the First Epistle of St. John
have given a name and title to the great granite mural
of Notre Dame’s Memorial Library: THE WORD OF
LIFE.
The Word of Life is our Savior, Jesus Christ. He is
called “the Life,5' because He came into the world and
lived and died for us to give us eternal life. Here is the
totality of Christian doctrine in the words of St. John's
epistle:
“In this has the love of God been show in our case,
that God has sent his only-begotten Son into the world
that we may live through him. In this is the love,
not that we have loved God, but that he has first
loved us, and sent his Son a propitiation for our sins.
Beloved, if God has so loved us, we also ought to love
one another” (1 John 4, 9-11).
Christ is called “the Word” because He is God's
utterance, the “image of the invisible God, the firstborn
of every creature” (Col. 1, 15), “full of grace and truth”
(John 1, 14), “who has become for us God-given wis-
dom” (1 Cor. 1, 30), “through whom all things have
been created, and who is before all creatures, and in
whom all things hold together” (Cor. 1, 17). All the
words of men, if they are true words, reflect and repro-
duce the riches of the one eternal Word of Life, because
“it has pleased God the Fathei' that in him all his fulness
should dwell, and that through him he should reconcile
to himself all things, whether on the earth or in the
heavens, making peace through the blood of his cross”
(Col. 1, 19-20).
It is this same "Word of Life which provides a
theme for us today, for our prayer and reflection on this
day of dedication.
The library is a storehouse of words, — a torrent of
words, a tumult and clamor of words. Words agree with
each other, modify, clarify, illustrate and thus enlarge
our view and confirm our understanding of the truth.
But words also contend and strive and contradict, quarrel
among themselves, and set up hostile rivalries. As Car-
dinal Newman stated it: “Nothing is more common than
for men to think that because they are familiar with
words, they understand the ideas they stand for” (Paro-
chial and Plain Sermons, I). We would like to quiet
the clamor of words, and to secure some unity and peace
out of this contention. We believe, with St. Augustine,
that “the peace of all things is the tranquillity of order,”
and that “order is an arrangement of components equal
and unequal, assigning the proper place to each.”
Speaking of this well-known quotation of St. Augus-
tine, our Holy Father, Pope Paul VI, said last Christmas
in his message to the world, that the saint’s words are
“applicable today in the sense that tranquility and
security of peace are the products of well-ordered move-
ment of component parts, rather than being something
static and fixed. “Peace,” he said, “is well-balanced
motion.” The Holv Father said that he spoke about
peace, because ‘“it is necessary to heed the yearnings of
the new generation: youth desires peace.” Again, he
emphasized that it is necessary to speak of peace because
“we see that peace is still weak, fragile and threatened,
and that in not a few, fortunately limited, regions of the
earth, peace is violated.” Peace, he continued, “in the
present moment is based more on fear than on friend-
ship. It is maintained more by the terror of deadly
*
7
Cardinal Tisserant celebrates the Mass.
The Moreau Seminary Choir provides the music.
The Knights of Columbus form the honor guard.
weapons than by mutual harmony and faith among
peoples.” Asking the question: “Why are men not at
peace with one another?” he replied: “Because their
minds are not united. Union of minds is the great need
of contemporary man. Culture, which awakens and in
great part fills this want, in the end does not satisfy it. . . .
Men lack unity in their principles, in their ideas and in
their view of life and of the world. As long as they are
divided, they will continue to be ignorant of one another,
to hate and to fight against one another. . . .”
The university community, in particular, the world of
scholars and students, must seek and preserve this spirit
of peace and unity if the important work of truth is to
move forward with stable progress, and bring unity to
men’s minds. And the scholar can find the unity of truth
in his strong holding by faith and love to the one Word
of Life. Who came into the world “to enlighten every
man who comes into the world” (John 1, 9).
God spoke only one Word, made one utterance,
and in that one Word He established all truth: “the Life
Eternal which was with the Father, and has appeared
to us” (1 John 1, 2). In the prologue to the Fourth
Gospel, the same beloved disciple had written: “All things
were made through him, and without him was made
nothing that has been made. In him was life” (John
1, 3-4). And that other great apostle, St. Paul, had put
the same truth in other words when he wrote: “In him
are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge”
(Col. 2, 3).
This one divine truth is marvellously dispersed
throughout all creation, in world and worlds, in universe
and universes. The truth is in the skies and in the space
beyond the skies. It is in the mighty mountain and the
deserts and the seas; and of this entire creation the truth
is in the tiniest particles that men discover and observe,
and even manipulate.
The same truth is in the great ideas that move men’s
minds to deepest philosophical thought: ideas of being
and the good, of freedom and order, of justice and right.
And the truth is in creative imagination also, in the
luminous insight of poetry, in the tragic vision of drama,
in the sound of music, in the talented shorthand of the
pictorial arts and sculpture, and in soaring architecture.
This truth is one and undivided in its origin, in the
one Eternal Word. It is divided only in our discovery of
it, and in the resources and methods of our search.
Therefore, the searcher in love with truth will never
say, “This truth is my truth only, mine is the only way.”
He will respect and esteem the ways of other searchers;
he will seek to understand their ways, and incorporate
them into his own search, as well as he is able. Thus a
man, from being a mere learner, can become a seeker
after wisdom. This was expressed in another way by
Pope Paul VI, in his address opening the second period
of the Council, when he said:
“Human thought moves forward. Man advances
from empirically observed facts to scientific truth,
from one truth he derives another by logical deduc-
tion, and, confronted by the complexity and per-
manence of reality, he bends his mind now to one
of its aspects, now to another. It is thus that thought
evolves. The course of its evolution can be traced
in history.”
Nothing, of course, can ever be gained by compromise
with the truth. Truth is an absolute which cannot be
diminished, as witnessed by so many martyrs in the
Church. What was true formerly cannot now be not
true. But the perspectives from which we view the truth,
and the angles from which we approach it, are con-
tinually changing, and thus our knowledge is inwardly
growing. The renewal which is the expressed objective
of the Second Vatican Council is not in the truth itself,
which we have in the Word of Life, but in our more
perfect possession of it, our wider interpretation of it,
our fuller living of it!
Constantly, therefore, we must seek after that wis-
dom and knowledge, the fulness of which is in the Word
of Life. Wisdom is more than a quality of a man’s char-
acter, more than a talent or a sought-after skill. Wisdom
is really a gift, of highest value, a calm and easy spiritual
insight. The wise man knows the truth and does the
8
NOTRE DAME
truth. His knowledge is alive, it lives by love, and knowl-
edge becomes for him a source of action. If a man has
wisdom as well as knowledge, he is able to relate his
knowledge to other knowledge, and to evaluate all knowl-
•>*	edge in a comprehensive vision of the meaning	of life
।	and the destiny of man. St.	John does not bless an
i	exclusiveness of knowledge or	a separation into	closed
j	cultures. He guides us to the	truth that is one	in the
Eternal Word, and he wants us to search with humble
love and magnanimity.
The life eternal which the Word gives to us is life
as children of God. This life we possess right now, in
this present moment, if we love God and keep His law.
Here is the way St. John expresses it so beautifully:
“Behold what manner of love the Father has bestowed
upon us, that we should be called children of God;
and such we are. . . . Beloved, now we are children
of God, and it has not yet appeared what we shall
be. We know that when he appears, we shall be like
to him, for we shall see him just as he is. And every-
one who has this hope in him makes himself holy,
just as he is holy” (1 John 3, 1-3).
The eternal life, therefore, is the life of children in a
I	family, a fellowship, a community. Love, communion,
fellowship are overworked religious words, but we must
।	give them new and vital meaning. God surely wants to
।	see love active among all men, and therefore also—we
,	might even say, especially-—-in the intellectual commu-
!	nity, the family of scholars. St. John calls the fellowship
'	“koinonia,” a partnership, a common enterprise. How
।	applicable this is to the university community! We see
this partnership at its best when students are honestly
1	devoted to each other and help each other, when facul-
ties advance the work as one united body, when the
whole family is at one in the common search for truth.
Even a further extension of the university fellowship
takes place when wealthy and established universities give
aid and assistance to the poorer universities in new and
developing countries. We see this generous work of love
going forward now in many heartening ways. St. John
places the test of love in the sharing of resources: “He
who has the goods of this world and sees his brother in
need and closes his heart to him, how does the love of
God abide in him? My dear children, let us not love in
word, neither with the tongue, but in deed and in truth”
(1 John 3, 17-18). It is in the spirit of the apostle that
American universities should be openhearted towards
their co-workers in other parts of the world, lending men
i	and giving money and materials in a world-wide sharing
I	of the goods of the Eternal Word.
And even more, it is a healing love in times not healthy
that sends college students and graduates in the thousands
into far places, to work with no thought of privilege or
gain in urban slums and destitute places throughout the
world. Thus they plant hope and courage among men
and women who have seen little enough of love. And
among themselves these student-workers form commu-
nities that transcend religious differences and make it
possible for them to work together in the name of Christ.
“These things we write to you that you may re-
joice, and our joy may be full” (1, 4). We do not ordi-
narily think of joy as the quality of the scholar. We
think of patient, solitary labor, hidden, often painful
striving. Cardinal Newman wrote that he found the
work of writing actually equivalent to physical pain.
But if joy is not often the quality of the scholar’s
work, it is sometimes his reward. He reaches at times
those “moments of plenitude” that Father Sertillanges
wrote about in his inspiring book, “The Intellectual Life.”
Every student has had the experience of a slow, laborious,
seemingly endless climb suddenly arriving at a peak, and
then a long glad moment of looking at the truth. The
contemplation of the truth which comes at a high moment
of fulfillment is not work, but it is a happy outcome of
work. These moments of contemplation are a gift of
God to the scholar, and they are highly prized.
There is that other joy, of teaching, the joy of the
scholar sharing his learning with his students. The goods
of the spirit are not diminished by being given away. We
have the highest divine example of that axiom that good-
ness is diffusive of itself. In the eternal Trinity, God utters
His Word, and sees Himself totally imaged in His Son.
In mutual love, Father and Son breathe forth the Holy
Spirit. And in these indescribable processions the serene
unity of God remains. In the most humble and human
way, every good and loving teacher imitates the proces-
sions of God, giving all he has of knowledge and love, and
at the same time conserving all the riches of his thought
in undiminished unity.
Now, finally, we come to the close of our reflec-
tions on the opening words of the Epistle of St. John. We
will use for our conclusion a paraphrase of the great com-
mentary of St. Augustine on these same opening words:
“That which we have seen and heard we announce
to you,” St. John begins. And St. Augustine quickly adds
that we have not seen, we learn from witnesses. The
doubting Apostle Thomas said, “Unless I see in his hands
the print of the nails, and put my finger into the place
of the nails, and put my hand into His side, I will not
believe” (John 2, 25). He saw, and touched, and be-
lieved: “My Lord and my God!” he said. And Jesus
said to him: “Because thou hast seen me, thou hast be-
lieved. Blessed are they who have not seen, and yet have
believed” (John 20, 29).
St. Augustine continues. Let us hold firmly, he tells
us, to that which we do not see. Because those who have
seen tell us, “You will have fellowship with us.” Is it a
great thing to have fellowship with men? With students,
let us say, with faculty members, with deans and presi-
dents, with parents, with committees, with colleagues and
fellow workers in all wide-ranging acquaintanceships of
the university world? But listen to the apostle. Our fel-
lowship does not end here. See what he adds: "Our
fellowship is with God the ^Father, and with his Son
Jesus Christ. And this we write you that you may re-
joice, and your joy may be full.” This full joy the
Apostle places in the fellowship, in love, in unity.
Let it be our prayer today that the faculty and stu-
dents of the University of Notre Dame, using this great
library, will always carry on their work in the spirit of
the disciple whom Jesus loved, and in faithful love of the
WORD OF LIFE.
9
The Academic
(Excerpts from an address, “The University and the
Explosion of Knowledge,” by Dr. Grayson Kirk, Presi-
dent of Columbia University.)
No person interested in the life of the mind and the
spirit could fail to be moved by the occasion that has
brought us together this afternoon. In our day a uni-
versity must have at its disposal a formidable array of
physical facilities. Many of them, such as nuclear re-
actors, electron microscopes and language laboratories,
were unknown to the past generation. But not one of
these splendid, useful and costly new adjuncts to teaching
and research can be compared in fundamental importance
with the oldest of all university instrumentalities, the
library. Here, if anywhere, is the intellectual core of the
institution. Here, if anywhere, is the yardstick by which
the true dedication of a university to the highest ideals
of teaching and research is to be measured. A great
library system is an institutional commitment to a great
future: it is a warning to those who are content with
intellectual mediocrity and a comfort to those who are
not. For this reason, Father Hesburgh, your colleagues
from sister institutions salute you and your associates on
this splendid achievement and the significance which it
embodies for higher education in America.
In these days when all academic budgets, enrollments
and collections have been growing at such an unprece-
dented rate we tend to forget how recently and how
rapidly we have developed our great university library
systems. Not until late in the nineteenth century did the
movement really begin, and then it came only when and
as our institutions undertook new commitments to post-
graduate teaching and research. As colleges grew into
universities, their libraries were obliged to transform them-
selves from simple teaching aids to research tools. At my
own institution, for example, when John W. Burgess
came in 1876 to help found the Graduate Faculty of
Political Science he discovered, as he wrote later, that
The color guard leads the Academic Procession an
the college possessed a library of only 25,000 volumes,
an inadequate author-catalog and a single untrained
librarian “who crept up to the building about eleven
o’clock in the morning and kept the library open for the
drawing of books about one hour and a half daily. He
generally seemed displeased when anyone asked for a book
and positively forbidding when asked to buy one. He used
to boast that the trustees appropriated fifteen hundred
dollars a year to the library and that he turned back
nearly half of it at the end of the period.”
But the winds of change in American higher educa-
tion soon began to blow away these dusty traditions of
the past. Pushed by Burgess and his other new colleagues,
Columbia acquired eight times as many books in the next
two decades as it had accumulated in the entire first
century and a quarter of its history. And sixty years later,
when the total collections passed the three-million mark,
the Director of Libraries reported that one out of every
four books in the thirty libraries on campus had been
acquired in the past dozen years.
This single example, cited to you because it is the
J he Honorary Degree recipients pose for formal portrait.
one I know best, is illustrative of the change that has
taken place in our time and in all American academic
institutions. And the rate of acceleration continues to a
degree that staggers the imagination and confounds all
our budget-makers and even our planners. It is perhaps
out of place, in this setting, for me to liken what has been
occurring to the work of an intellectual Sorcerer’s Ap-
prentice, but I must confess that the comparison does at
times seem apt, particularly when on my own campus I
begin to wonder what we are to do with the half million
new pieces of library material that at Columbia we now
acquire yearly.
Today, we ought to move back from effect to cause
and concern ourselves with the basic phenomenon in the
intellectual life of our time which is so dramatically re-
flected in these burgeoning library collections. I refer,
of course, to the sudden, almost incredible growth, in our
generation, of the sheer quantum of human knowledge.
It is this, and not merely our high-speed printing presses
and the affluence of our society, that has placed such a
strain upon our library facilities.
Convocation
The popular term, of course, is the “explosion of
knowledge,” and this is appropriate as well as graphic
because its effect upon many of our traditional academic
methods and procedures is certain to be disruptive, even
shattering. In nearly all scientific fields, the trickle of
academic research that existed a few decades ago now
has become a veritable flood. It has been estimated that
today more than 1,200,000 articles of significance in the
physical and life sciences appear annually in more than
50,000 professional journals. In the nonscientific dis-
ciplines the change may not be so dramatic but it is sub-
stantial and impressive. So many more scholars . . . and
in so many more countries . . . are busy with their type-
writers and their computers. So many more professional
journals, and in many languages, appear year by year.
Thus, today, it has become increasingly difficult for a
scholar to keep abreast of developments in any large aca-
demic field; to maintain mastery and possibly leadership
in anything but a small segment becomes almost impos-
sible. It is true, of course, that much of this vast scholar-
ly printed output may be either trivial or ephemeral or
both. It is equally true that some of it mav read as if
it had been written in a foreign language and translated
into English by a computer. But our harassed scholars
have no simple Geiger counter with which to test the
value of a book or monograph before reading, and so their
professional labors . . . and those of our university li-
brarians . . . grow apace.
With this new phenomenon, we are all reasonably
familiar. We recognize that we are witnessing in our
generation . . . and particularly in science and technology,
a rate of development for which there has been no
parallel in human history. Caryl Haskins has said that
“in our contemporary world there live and work more
scientific investigators than the total in the two and a
half centuries after Newton.” Because such activity is
(Continued on page 18)
Nearly half a century ago Notre Dame dedicated its
first Library Building. The centenary historian of the
University, recalling the event, observed that it was
doubtful if Notre Dame at any time would exceed the
brilliance and beauty surrounding that day. It is satis-
fying to those who are proud to claim the Notre Dame
tradition as theirs that the first event to challenge the
dedication of the old Library is this, the dedication of
the new one. And we are especially glad to welcome
here the distinguished assembly of scholars and uni-
versity administrators, who know most keenly what this
event means to us, and who share our pride in this great
building dedicated to the service of learning and the
greater glory of God.
At this special convocation, then, we honor especially
those who have made their lives a service to learning,
those whose work it has been to seek out what is new
and significant in human knowledge, to cherish the best
of what we have, and to hand on to future generations
our Judeo-Christian and humanist sense of the past. In
their hands education has never been demeaned to a
trade, never debased to special pleading, never vulgarized
by the demands of popularity. In them honor and ex-
ploit have been fused, passion turned to service, insight
to vision. But even more than what they are we honor
what they stand for: the habit of perfection. They are
the founders and guardians of libraries everywhere.
The University of Notre Dame takes great pride on
this occasion in bestowing the degree of Doctor of Laws,
honoris causa,
Honorary
Degrees
Conferred
TISSERANT
On an eminent Churchman, a distinguished scholar
of languages and history, interpreter of early Christian
documents, expert in the liturgical art of the Eastern
rites, world authority on Oriental languages, but above
all significantly for us today, Librarian and Archivist of
the Catholic Church. Notre Dame is proud to join its
energies and services with those of the intellectual
Catholic world as symbolized by the presence here today
of the Chief Librarian of the Church. On the Dean
of the Sacred College of Cardinals,
Eugene Cardinal Tisserant
On a prelate and scholar, whose thoughtful and ap-
propriate words graced this occasion this morning. Him-
self an educator, he knows, as he told us, that all the
words in this Library are the radiance of that Word
Which is Christ. As a theologian, seminary President
and prelate he has lived close to this Great Word, and
brought this wisdom to the leading part he plays in
renewal within the Church. And as Archbishop of one
of the largest dioceses in the world and Cardinal Priest
of the diocese of Rome, he is the stalwart upholder of
the tradition established by his Cardinal predecessors
of progressive leadership of the Church in America.
On His Eminence Albert Cardinal Meyer,
Archbishop of Chicago
On the President of Columbia
City of New York.
University in the
The life of every university must turn two ways,
inward toward its students and faculty, and outward,
toward the common good. Perhaps no university in the
United States has made this more usefully clear than
Columbia and her presidents. Our speaker is a quietly
perfect exemplar of this tradition. Long before he be-
came Columbia’s President his teaching and administra-
tive abilities brought him national recognition. Since
his appointment to the Presidency he has, in many ways,
made his University, his city and the English-speaking
world realize how truly a great University President is
an ambassador to the courts of leadership.
On our speaker for this occasion, the President
of Columbia University, Grayson Kirk
On a theologian, a priest who has placed the best
of his scholarship and intelligence to the service of the
12
NOTRE DAME
DICKEY	FARNSWORTH
GOHEEN	HENRY
knowledge of God. He feels in his deepest life the
transcending and transforming spirit of the liturgy of
the Church, and, forsaking both antiquarianism and
sentimentality, has sought to bring it to bear, with the
grace of good sense and the charity of true understand-
ing, on the urgencies of our time.
On Louis Bouyer, priest of the Oratory, Paris, France
On the President of Georgetown University. Under
his wise guidance his University has taken on an exciting
new flexibility. He has given to it a fresh awareness
of its key location in the nation’s capital. To its fine
professional schools he has brought resurgent energy and
direction. Especially has he strengthened its admirable
work in the vital area of training public servants. His
various efforts have gained for Georgetown deserved
recognition as a Catholic University alive to the legacy
of the past yet committed to the urgent needs of the
future, as befits the oldest Catholic University in the
United States.
On Edward B. Bunn of the Society of Jesus,
President of Georgetown University
On a college president, who, oddly enough, devotes
almost all of his time to education, one whose insight and
drive has helped higher education in America face up to
its contemporary task. As the able administrator of one
of the country’s oldest and noblest private colleges he
has greatly strengthened its resources and its structures.
But most of all he has quickened its mental life by his
challenging insistence on public service, student re-
sponsibility and the virtues of democracy, qualities he
has best exemplified in his own person.
On the President of Dartmouth College,
John Sloan Dickey
of national service. He has developed its resources in
spectacular fashion, improved its facilities, and strength-
ened its academic programs. Above all he has insisted
with forceful eloquence on the twofold reason for a
university’s existence: the education of the young and
the pursuit of new knowledge.
On Robert F. Goheen, President
of Princeton University
On the President of a neighboring university, a man
distinguished for his long and productive service in the
cause of higher education. While ably guiding his own
University through a period of major expansion, he
has continued to write widely about education and to
perform yeoman service on numerous groups concerned
with education in his state, region and nation. Today
we proudly add our name to the score of colleges and
universities that have honored him in the past.
On David D. Henry, President
of The University of Illinois
The President of Purdue is a refreshing sight to
behold among his fellows. He is an athlete of nearly
Hall-of-Fame distinction. He is an engineer who be-
came a Rhodes scholar. He is a research chemist who
is also a notably expert businessman. He is also notably
durable: still in his prime, he has been President of
Purdue for over eighteen years, to the eminent satisfac-
tion of that University community and, more remarkably,
to the taxpayers of Indiana. With perhaps no other
University has Notre Dame enjoyed such close ties of
friendship for so many years, and we honor no other
today with more joy and neighborly good feeling.
On the President of Purdue University,
Frederick Lawson Hovde
On a wise and far-seeing physician, whose dedication
to his University and the well-being of its students had
led him to pioneer a health service which ministers
to minds as well as bodies, and counts moral virtues no
less than intellectual and physical ones in the education
of youth. In his person he has exemplified the answer
to medical science’s greatest challenge today, the joining
of the highest level of scientific knowledge to the deepest
humanity, compassion and sense of service. On
Doctor Dana L. Farnsworth
Director of the Student Health Service
at Harvard University
On the President of one of America’s great private
universities. Since his appointment at the age of 37 as
its sixteenth President, he has labored with energy and
imagination to add new luster to its historic mission
13
MUMFORD	O’BYRNE
With awe and wonder, like the Lilliputians inspecting
Gulliver, do we private schools look upon the chief
executive of the University of California. He oversees
the operations of seven campuses, although this time
next week the figure may be eight or nine; he has only
to wave his wand, and a new one springs up. No one
dare count his students, for fear of frightening the
Russians. Amid all these magnitudes he remains wise
and man-size, a sane voice and a good heart reminding
his students, his state and his country that Babel must
be humble before the Lord if it topple not.
On the President of the University of California,
Clark Kerr
On a distinguished university librarian. As the long-
time Librarian of Harvard College and Director of the
University Library, he made significant contributions to
Harvard’s pre-eminent place among our institutions of
higher learning. The dedication and skill which he
brought to his particular tasks have made her libraries
a model for collegiate libraries everywhere. He has,
besides, reduced the burden of his fellow librarians by
the broad light he has shed, through warm personal
contacts over the years and in numerous publications,
on the complex problems of modern library adminis-
tration.
On the Dean of University Librarians,
the Librarian Emeritus of Harvard College,
Keyes D. Metcalf
Friendly neighbors are a benison among universities
as well as families, and Notre Dame has had a long
'	o
and happy relation with Northwestern University. We
honor its President today as an old friend, a good neigh-
bor who helps to make the commonwealth of education
a true unity. Not even a medical degree could quell the
administrative abilities of Northwestern’s President, and
he has greatly advanced the already great prestige of his
institution by enriching his faculty and setting greater
challenges to his students, as well as advancing his
campus, like Moses parting the waters of the Red Sea,
right into Lake Michigan. On a distinguished physician,
a distinguished administrator and a cherished friend,
Roscoe Miller,
President of Northwestern University
On our national librarian, the eleventh Librarian of
Congress in the nation’s history. He is a bookman who
has labored with singular success to maintain the govern-
ment archives as, in the words of a predecessor, “universal
in scope, national in service.” A former director of the
Cleveland Public Library and a man notable for a total
dedication to his profession, he offers to libraries every-
where the highest example of a commitment to scholar-
ship fused with broad public service.
On L. Quincy Mumford,
Librarian of Congress
Among the shining works of the Church in this
country are the Catholic women’s colleges, and Manhat-
tanville College of the Sacred Heart has been among
the foremost in uniting for its students intellectual and
religious virtues with womanly grace and charm. The
breadth of this achievement is a direct reflection of its
energetic president, an educator who has shown herself
14 NOTRE DAME
SMITH	STAHR	THOMPSON	WELLS
keenly aware of both the special opportunities and the
complex 'demands that await the educated young woman,
and the tender charity required of them to help redeem
the time.
On the President of Manhattanville College of the
Sacred Heart, Mother Eleanor O’Bryne
On the dynamic president of St. Louis University. In
the tradition of the Jesuit pioneers who came down the
Mississippi,, he has blazed new trails in education in St.
Louis. He has rearranged the city to expand his Uni-
versity, to the admiring and overwhelming approval of
his fellow townsmen; and he has rearranged the Univer-
sity to expand its educational reaches, to the cheers of
his faculty and students. For fifteen years he has
zealously attacked the problems of faculty, financing and
the future, and, thanks to him, his city, his University
and the Catholic world face it with more confidence.
On Father Paul C. Reinert, of the Society of Jesus,
President of St. Louis University
On the first President of our country’s first Jewish-
sponsored, nonsectarian university. Bringing to his un-
charted tasks an immense intellectual vitality and a pas-
sionate idealism, he has guided Brandeis University on
a breathtaking climb from its beginnings in 1948 to the
very top level of American universities. Long before this
he had distinguished himself as a teacher and author
as well as a pioneer in the Hillel Foundation movement.
Today we eagerly honor him for the proud challenge he
throws down to educators everywhere: the challenge
of quality.
On Abram Leon Sachar,
President of Brandeis University
On the President of the College of St. Thomas. Ap-
pointed to his position at the age of 35, he has proved
himself a gifted administrator and an energetic promoter
of good teaching and productive scholarship. He has
maintained the rich religious traditions of his college
while forging new and dynamic goals for his college.
Himself a distinguished historian, he has been deeply
concerned with the particular problems of Catholic
education while forming broad and stimulating relation-,
ships with his community and state. In so doing he has
made of St. Thomas a bright exemplar of the modern
Catholic college.
On Monsignor James P. Shannon,
President of the College of St. Thomas
On a versatile artist and designer. As a watercolorist
and easel painter, he won early distinction as one of the
foremost in the emerging group of American artists who
found their subject matter in their own native vistas.
Later, as an illustrator, he made vivid to Americans the
war experiences their sons were undergoing in faraway
places. Still searching for new ways of expressiveness,
he developed a third career as designer and muralist.
He has combined the artist’s vision, in all of these, with
a craftsman’s feeling for materials and American in-
genuity and exuberance. May his crowning work, the
immense and splendid mural of Christ the Teacher
which dominates our setting today, inspire for hopeful
future years the work of our University.
On Millard Sheets, of Claremont, California
On a philosopher who refuses the comfort of philo-
sophical shibboleths which would assert the unhistorical
or independent status of philosophy. He is especially
aware of the historical dimensions of philosophy in
America, and has drawn heavily on them in reaching
his own critical positions. He seeks to remind our age
of the traditional connection between religious faith and
philosophical thought as the most fundamental spiritual
relationship in human life. In urging a renewal of the
ancient dualism of philosophy and religion, he brings
thoughtful men of all persuasions to a new awareness of
the ultimate questions of existence.
On John Edward Smith, of Yale University
On a neighbor and friend, the President of our State
University. He brings to his high position not only an
enlightened concern for education but wide experience
as a lawyer and as a public official. A Rhodes scholar
in law at Oxford, he later interrupted a distinguished
practice to make a career of meteoric brilliance in the
Second World War. Since then, while holding various
academic posts, he has continued to give himself to gov-
ernment service, most recently and most fittingly as
Secretary of the Army. We honor him today for that
rare example he offers us of personal accomplishment
easily at home with a dedication to the public good.
On Elvis J. Stahr, President
of Indiana University
On a searching student of the moral problems in inter-
national relations, whose idealism is tempered with a
wise realism, a devotion to the is and the ought in the
conduct of our foreign affairs. Inspirer and abettor of
(Continued on page 18)
15
Library
Dedication
Banquet
ALLEN	GRACE	RAUCH	ELLIS
The Dedication Banquet was held on the evening
of May 7 in the North Dining Hall on campus.
Kev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.G., chairman of the Dedica-
tion, was master of ceremonies and greetings were ex-
tended by Hon. Lloyd M. Allen, Mayor of South Bend;
J. Peter Grace, president of the Board of Lay Trustees;
Rufus Rauch, professor of English; and David J. Ellis,
president of the student body.
The Notre Dame Glee Club provided the musical
entertainment for the evening.
Dr. Herman B Wells, chancellor of Indiana Univer-
sity, gave the principal address which appears below:
Reverend Clergy, Distinguished Guests, Ladies
and Gentlemen:
I welcome the privilege of participating in this din-
ner program, for it gives me an opportunity to express
the honor and pride which I feel in receiving a degree
from this distinguished University and. at the hand of
my dear friend and companion, Father Hesburgh. As
many in this auditorium know, I have a special affection
and interest in all things Hoosier. This University is one
of the brightest jewels in the Hoosier diadem as well as
one of the outstanding institutions in the nation and in
the world of scholarship. I, therefore, take special satis-
faction in being privileged to join your fellowship as a
Hoosier, to forge new ties of friendship with Father
Hesburgh, and to renew my ties of friendship with
Father Cavanaugh and others on this faculty.
We have dedicated today a library building of such
quality that it assures Notre Dame’s continued march
onward and upward to greater heights of teaching, re-
search, and public service. As many in this room know,
I have long been as deeply concerned for the welfare,
growth, and vitality of privately-supported higher educa-
tion as I have for publicly-supported institutions. Much
of the academic freedom we enjoy in teaching and re-
search in both types of institutions is the result of our
plurality of governance, support, and mission. So long
as we preserve this plurality we can in time of danger
rally in each other’s defense. I further believe that the
best days for privately-supported higher education are
ahead. There could be no more dramatic physical evi-
dence of my belief than the magnificance of this new
library building made possible by a great private founda-
tion and the sacrificial giving of those who believe in
Notre Dame.
The last previous multiple degree “letting” which
I attended occurred last summer in London at the
brilliant 50th anniversary meeting of the Association of
Commonwealth Universities. Her Royal Highness, the
Queen Mother, as Chancellor of the University of
London, addressed the convocation and conferred the
degrees. The audience consisted of some hundreds of
university vice-chancellors (the British equivalent of a
university president), some American presidents, conti-
nental rectors, and other assorted academic gentry. The
Queen Mother made a gracious and effective speech.
Later when I had a chance to greet her at a reception,
I complimented her on the appropriateness of her speech
and the effectiveness of its delivery. She replied, “When
I looked out over the audience and saw all those vice-
chancellors sitting before me ready to criticize my every
word I was so frightened I was nearly speechless.”
I can’t say that I am exactly speechless when I look
out to this audience and see all of these active presidents
resting comfortably in their chairs. Instead I am merely
wondering, what doth it profit a man to retire as presi-
dent when the active members of the fraternity may
doze in their seats while the retired must sing for his
supper.
This occasion stimulates me to add another to my
maxims for the guidance of new presidents.
Never miss a great academic festival where many
presidents are invited. If many presidents are present
the law of averages will probably enable you to escape
making a speech, you will undoubtedly have a good
time, pick up a few ideas, and while you are away from
your office no mistakes will be made. Hence the well-
being of your institution will be advanced.
The American after dinner speech is a devilish in-
vention anyway. It is a curse of our Puritan inheritance.
Today we have had a colorful and inspiring ceremony.
Tonight we have enjoyed an excellent dinner, have had
appropriate greetings from the lay trustees, the faculty,
students, and the Mayor. We have listened to delightful
music by the glee club. The sensible thing would be to
now adjourn. But no, tradition holds that an evening
cannot be all pleasure. The old Puritans felt that any
pleasure must be balanced by pain. And what originally
started out long ago in Europe to be a toast and a
response to the toast ends up in our Puritan setting as
the painful part of an otherwise pleasant occasion. It
is a shocking thing to realize that even here in Notre
Dame the Puritan influence is felt.
Father Ted, however, gave me some detailed instruc-
tions designed in part to overcome this shocking state of
affairs. When he first called to ask me to speak (it cost
little to telephone from South Bend to Bloomington and
that is undoubtedly the reason I was invited) he said
that he would like for me to say something about the
University and World Affairs. Just after we talked he
took off for South America and in succeeding weeks I
understand he made a couple of trips around the world.
He must have found the world in good shape or he put
it in good shape in the course of his travels, for upon
his return a few days ago in sending me detailed written
instructions, he made no reference to the University and
16 NOTRE DAME
World Affairs. Instead he wrote and I quote, “the
subject matter is up to you, although we hope the
treatment will be light.” Now I was not exactly built
for light treatment. I usually add weight rather than
grace to an occasion. In fact, when my good friends in
Thailand wished to confer an honor upon me, they
concluded that the Order of the White Elephant would
be extraordinarily appropriate. Although I may not be
light on foot I do remember that brevity is the soul of
wit, and I can at least be brief. So I shall say just a
very few words about the World, the University, and
the Library.
Recently I have had the privilege of reading a
preface prepared by Senator Fulbright for a volume as
yet unpublished dealing with the cultural and educational
aspects of our foreign policy. I wish to share a small part
of his statement with you.
“Foreign policy cannot be based on military posture
and diplomatic activities alone in today’s world. The
shape of the world a generation from now will be in-
fluenced far more by how well we communicate the
values of our society to others than by our military or
diplomatic superiority. The question of whether the
highest aspirations of mankind can best be fulfilled
under a totalitarian or a democratic society will ulti-
mately be decided in the minds of men — not on a
battlefield or in a conference room.”
If this be true, and I believe it, the role of the
University in World Affairs is crucial and decisive.
The winds of change which have swept through the
entire world during this century have altered the lives
of every living person, or soon will do so. Science and
technology have drastically reduced the size of the world.
The radio has destroyed the isolation of the remotest
village. Civilizations dormant for thousands of years
have suddenly erupted demanding their place in the
twentieth century political and economic sun. This cen-
tury has been dynamic, explosive, painful, yet pregnant
with opportunity.
This revolutionary century is of far-reaching im-
portance for our nation. It has brought about a shift in
the location of power, influence, obligation, and decision
which has thrust us into the thinly populated center of
world affairs. It has given this nation the opportunity
to influence decisively our own future and that of
humanity if we have the reason and will to do so.
I recently heard the late Dwight Morrow quoted
as saying that in the field of international relationship,
“we judge ourselves by our ideas and aspirations, but
we judge others by their actions.” As I have reflected
on this observation, its meaning has become clear. Not-
withstanding our excellent position of power, we have
been looking at the world through blinders of ignorance
and underdeveloped morality.
Thus great obligation and power came to us before
we were prepared to assume it. We have yet to achieve
the requisite knowledge, skills, outlooks, and under-
standing.
Two great national reports or academic White
Papers have been produced and published, The Morrill
Report on Universities and World Affairs, and the
recently distributed report on the College and World
Affairs. Countless books have been written, conferences
held, and special reports prepared, dealing with the new
importance of the international dimension in higher
education. As a result of all of this, changes are occur-
ring in our colleges and universities. Here at Notre
Dame with its indigenous global orientation as a creature
of the world’s most ancient and effective international
organization, the Catholic Church, and under the leader-
ship of an exceptional world citizen and scholar, much
has been accomplished, but I am sure that even here
much remains to be done.
In fact we require a new national strategy for higher
education. This will mean adjustments in curriculum,
teaching methods, faculty and student outlook and total
institutional awareness of our new role in influencing
World Affairs.
Our curriculum must be greatly broadened to include
a wider range of languages and a renewed understanding
of their importance. We must also include courses
which will enable the student to leam that there are
other great cultures in addition to our own. To enable
the student to understand his own culture in this era
as well as its relationship to the world, I believe the
comparative method must be infused into the teaching
of nearly all undergraduate subjects. Somewhere Kipling
said, “He who has not seen the world has not seen
England.”
Some of you may remember one of Whitney
Griswold’s maxims: “A people that is afraid to expose
its political and social institutions to the curiosity and
criticism of the rising generation . . . shouts its in-
security to the world.” This could well be paraphrased
to say: “A people that is afraid to expose its political
and social institutions to comparison and contrast with
other cultures shouts its insecurity to the world.”
The reordering of the curriculum which is in order
will require not only new courses in languages, area
studies, philosophy, geography, etc., but will also re-
quire painstaking effort on the part of our faculties, and,
in fact, in many instances additional training and new
opportunities for study and orientation. The faculty and
administration, with the help of the great foundation and
other sources of income, must be willing to invent all
types of unconventional arrangements which will make
this retooling and retreading possible.
Finally, we need a radically new concept of the sup-
A group of head table guests include Victor Schaefer, left, at the May 7 affair.
The Notre Dame Glee Club presents vocal selections during the banquet.
17
port required to achieve adequate range and depth of
our library collections. I have lately begun to believe that
this perhaps is our most urgent and important need.
For generations we have been developing our library
book collections in our traditional areas of study. Tradi-
tional programs have staked out continuing claims against
the library budget. Library budget totals rise slowly. As
a consequence, newer fields have been able to secure
only minor support for their needs. There is little
reason, however, to introduce Arabic and Middle Eastern
studies, Far Eastern and Oriental Studies, African and
Latin American studies unless the library collections es-
sential to the teaching and research in these fields are
given high priority. Since the traditional fields must
not be neglected, the only answer it seems to me is to
increase drastically our total library expenditures. The
library, therefore, with its specialized staff, its collections,
and its buildings, is a crucial ingredient in the new
strategy required of higher education to perform its
proper service to the nation in this revolutionary era.
The bold planning and brilliant execution of the
library building which we have dedicated today gives
dramatic proof that Notre Dame realizes the paramount
importance of the library in the new strategy required of
higher education and is determined to meet the challenge
and opportunities of this era.
May the students and faculty of Notre Dame dis-
cover in the books and manuscripts lodged in the
skyward soaring tower of this great library the wisdom
and inspiration to attempt the impossible. May they
gain here the determination to create a world of justice,
peace, and brotherhood to the end of that God’s will
shall prevail on earth in our time.
•••> —<•••
Academic Convocation
(Continued from page 11)
cumulative in its results, we sense that we are truly living
in an intellectually expanding universe.
What are to be the consequences of this expansion of
knowledge upon the organization and life of the univer-
sity? Thus far we have all been so busy with the sheer
effort of trying to cope with new developments that we
have not found the time to look ahead into the future.
Operationally speaking, this may be inevitable, but such
a development guided only by ad hoc decisions and ad-
ministrative adaptations is the negation of planning. Since
we now know the flood will continue to rise, we ought
to make every effort, not to try to dam the stream of
events . . . which would be undesirable and impossible
. . . but so to channel it that our universities can be the
power stations from which our society can derive the
greatest possible benefit from the expenditure of so much
time, money and energy. . . .
Today, we see that future exemplified here. We
can see tangibly an impressive evidence of the generosity
of our people and the commitment of our institutional
leaders to the task before them. Knowing this, observing
this, we know in our hearts how shallow are those who
see in our contemporary world only the portents of
despair, decay and doom. Change is not to be feared
but to be grasped and used, for therein lies the only
hope of our progress. As Father Hesburgh has so well
said on another occasion, “Change is indeed the lot of
all of us. It is inescapable, inevitable and omnipresent.
But its direction is up or down. And the thrust of change
is, with God’s grace, at our disposal.” Under his leader-
ship the change here is indeed up and all our people are
enriched thereby.
Honorary Degrees
(Continued from page 15)
study and deliberation of the tangled snarls of diplomacy
in American universities, he is godfather to many more
publications than his own writings. To all these he
brings moral insight and force, and an unwavering sym-
pathy and understanding of the human condition.
On Kenneth E. Thompson, of New York City
On the former President of our great state University,
the man whose wisdom and tact through twenty-five
years of leadership brought it to its present high posi-
tion. His inspired vision of the proper aims of a public
university, to which he has been steadfast with un-
wavering loyalty, has been a beacon and a comfort to
the wise and good of his state. In this spirit he has in
his unceasing work for international understanding,
made himself a citizen of the world and our state uni-
versity a center for international studies and the foremost
American University in music and art.
On the only specimen in the world of a species
hitherto unknown to science, a completely satisfying
University President,
The Chancellor of Indiana University,
Herman B Wells
On the president of a great Midwestern university.
He has confronted the hard problems that beset the
modern state university — spiraling enrollment, inade-
quate facilities, proliferation of services — and has
managed through it all to maintain enviable standards
of achievement. His firm and inspired efforts have
demonstrated anew the inherent vitality of the American
public university, and have highlighted the crucial role
Z it can and must play in our contemporary society.
On; O. Meredith Wilson, President
-	'	, of the University of Minnesota
il
Qn .‘a foremost Negro educator, the vigorous presi-
dent !of a Southern university, a scholar who in numerous'
publications has sought to explore the historic role
of the Negro in America, a man of high courage and
firm ideals who, in these days of rapid and often violent
change, has steadfastly served the cause of education as
offering that last best hope for effecting the only true
revolution — that to be found in the minds and hearts
of men.
On Stephen J. Wright,
President of Fisk University
18 NOTRE DAME
dedication officials
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C.
Executive Vice President
General Chairman
Mr. James V. Gibbons
Assistant Director of PubEc Relations
Assistant to the General Chairman
committee chairmen
Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C.
Vice President—Academic Affairs
Symposium
Rev. Carl Hager, C.S.C.
Head, Department of Music
Music Coordination
Rev. Thomas J. O’Donnell, C.S.C.
Director, Notre Dame Library Association
Solemn Pontifical Mass
Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C.
Vice President—Public Relations
i	Convocation
I
i	Mr. Leo M. Corbaci
■	Assistant to Vice President—
;	Academic Affairs
J	Academic Procession
i	Rev. Paul G. Wendel, C.S.C.
'	Assistant Vice President—Business Affairs
j	Luncheon and Banquet
Mr. Armand Lysak
Manager, The Morris Inn
Reception
Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, C.S.C.
Vice President—Business Affairs
Special Arrangements
Rev. Charles McCarragher, C.S.C.
Vice President—Student Affairs
Student Participation
Mr. Victor Schaefer
Director of Libraries
Library Tours and Exhibits
Mr. J. Arthur Haley
Director of Public Relations
Housing and Transportation
Mr. James E. Murphy
Director of Public Information
Program and Press Relations
r. Jd'vard j. J, Tracey, Jr.
P. 0. Boi: 436
State College, Pa.