UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
WOMEN’S ADVISORY COUNCIL

Mr. John N. Cackley, Jr.,
Editor, Notre Dame,
Notre Dame, Indiana.

r
Dear Mr. Cackley:
It is indeed gratifying to note that others as well as
members of the Women’s Advisory Council feel the need
of more books for our library at Notre Dame. The for-
mation of the Notre Dame Library Association will need
a great deal of organization in order to get the idea
spread wherever there are friends and alumni of Notre
Dame. As we are appealing for $5.00 memberships that
will be paid on a yearly basis as dues, with the thousands
of friends the University has, one can readily see how
far this very worthy project might extend.

.»
4

The members of the Women’s Advisory Council
(which numbers about one hundred and forty women and
is made up of wives of the members of the Board of Lay
Trustees, and of wives of the members of the Science and
Engineering, Commerce, Law, and Liberal and Fine Arts
Councils of the University of Notre Dame) have agreed
to put forth every effort to make this new undertaking a
great success. They are extremely eager to get the project
under way.
The meetings of the women’s Advisory Council are
held twice a year at the University of Notre Dame. These
meetings are scheduled at the same time as the various
councils meet. At each of the Fall meetings in 1958, pre-
pared material will be given out so that the women will
have something tangible with which to work. The idea
of the council members inviting a few of their friends to
their homes or elsewhere in small informal meetings seems
to be a good one. The idea beyond this undertaking will
be to explain to their friends and friends of Notre Dame
the purpose of the Notre Dame Library Association. Also,
to ask these friends to do the same with their friends,
has also been suggested that the members may phone
write letters so that in the due course of time hundreds
people will be reached, near and far, and will be asked
subscribe $5.00 annually for the future development
the Notre Dame Library which is so necessary.
Other universities are carrying out similar projects
It
or
of
to
of
in
different ways, only not through a women’s organization.
I believe Notre Dame is the only University that has such
a council; however, the members of the Women’s Advisory
Council are so very anxious to take an active part in
something that will be of real value to a University that
has gone so far and is destined to go much farther. That
is why the Women’s Advisory Council does not want to
leave undone anything that will help in the long run to
make a greater success of the University of Notre Dame.
I am sure the women as well as the men want for the
University of Notre Dame a library of which everyone
will be very proud. So let us bend our every effort in
that direction.
Sincerely yours,
MRS. E. M. MORRIS,
Chairman, Women’s Advisory Council
HE library has been variously described as the heart,
or the nerve center of a university—as the campus
work-shop—the real gateway to learning. It has been
called a laboratory for the arts and sciences. Carlyle has
said that “the true University ... is a collection of books.”
However the library may be defined, its vital im-
portance to the university is obvious. Without an ade-
quate library the process of teaching is hampered. With-
out a quality library a competent faculty will not be
attracted and retained. Through the medium of books
the student may enter a hundred fields of knowledge,
explore the unbarricaded countries of the mind. From
the printed page the scholar draws insight and truth
illumined by the great minds of past and present.
The needs of the University of Notre Dame Library
are obvious and acute. The rapid expansion of the Uni-
versity in its outlook and in its outreach, the increasing
size of its student body and faculty, have outdistanced the
resources of the library in spite of the best that could be
done from a budgetary standpoint, to keep it abreast of
the advancing needs.
When Notre Dame’s scattered collections were first
gathered into a central library by Father Augustine Lem-
monier, President of the University, in 1873 there were
approximately 20,000 volumes. At the rate of growth
which is fairly standard for University libraries, the
number of volumes doubles approximately every 15 years.
The Assistance of Alumni


NOTRE DAME
LIBRARY
ASSOCIATION
Women’s Advisory
Council Sponsors
Special Project
Had it followed this general pattern, Notre Dame’s library
should have totaled at least 640,000 volumes in 1955.
Actually there are approximately 397,463 volumes in the
University library, excluding the Law Library.
It is obvious, of course, that a library cannot be evalu-
ated entirely by the number of its volumes. The quality
of its collection is more difficult to assay, but certainly is
of equal importance with the number of volumes. And
quality becomes more important as the University moves
further into graduate fields, with the accompanying re-
quirements in research.
Expansion and revision of the curricula and the
growth in size of the student body have greatly increased
the demands on the Notre Dame library. Today, over
1,700 undergraduate courses are taught at Notre Dame.
The graduate courses number approximately 300. In
the revision of the curricula and the development of new
programs of study, there has been a move away from the
textbook-type of course and more emphasis on wide
reading in the subject. Most courses are heavily weighted
toward the use of many books, and greater use is made of
the library than ever before. The curriculum in the
College of Arts and Letters now calls for a senior essay as
a requirement for graduation. This year 281 seniors are
writing such an essay, placing a heavy demand upon
library materials within a brief period of time.
Total registration at Notre Dame prewar, was 3,003;
today it is 6,022. The summer session enrollment has in-
creased from 210 in 1918 to 2,056 in 1957, and of the
latter number, 1,583 were graduate students.
These figures point up the exceedingly rapid growth at
Notre Dame in contrast to the more gradual development
in many other large universities. The growth has not
only been rapid but many-sided and complex as well.
The increase in the number of students, reorganization of
graduate schools and the offering of courses leading to
O	o	o
the doctorate in addition to the master’s degree, the
establishment of the Mediaeval Institute, the development
of research and publication in international relations,
germfree life, and other fields have all combined to tax
the library beyond its present resources.
These demands are not only on the central library
but on the four others maintained in connection with
the special schools—the Architectural and Engineering
Library—the Biology Library—the Science Library—the
Law Library.
Because the necessity of greater support is obvious,
the Women’s Advisory Council has selected this problem
as its special project. The Notre Dame Library Asso-
ciation was formed to stimulate and encourage the sup-
port of the University library by alumni and other friends.
Problems of the library will be interpreted to those
interested and it is hoped that additional, needed aid
for the library will result from these efforts.
Success of the organization will be measured by the
number who are attracted to its membership. There are
three classifications: Annual Membership, renewable each
year; Life Membership.
In addition to the annual and life memberships, pro-
vision has been made for a memorial roll for gifts to the
Notre Dame Library Association made in memory of a
deceased person. The amount of the memorial contribu-
tion is to be determined by the donor. Such gifts will be
appropriately acknowledged by the Notre Dame Library
Association to the family of the person memorialized and
showing the name of the person making the memorial
contribution.
Funds obtained through all memberships will be
devoted to the purchase of books and to the growth and
expansion of the library. Books will be purchased from
membership subscriptions and will be marked with a
Notre Dame Library Association plate.
In addition to the enlistment of memberships, the
Notre Dame Library Association encourages and solicits
the gift of private collections of books and other suitable
material. Such collections, after approval by the library
committee, are added to the resources of the library.
In embarking upon the organization of the Notre
Dame Library Association, the Women’s Advisory Council
confidently looks forward to the enthusiastic support, not
only of alumni, but of all non-alumni friends of the
University and the friends of learning in general.
I
I
i PLEASE ACCEPT MY APPLICATION FOR MEM-
•	BERSHIP IN THE NOTRE DAME LIBRARY
J	ASSOCIATION AS CHECKED
i
|	( ) Annual Membership ($5.00)
J	( ) Life Membership ($100.00 or more)
l	(	) Memorial Membership (Donor determines amount)
J	ENTER NAME OF PERSON TO BE MEMORIALIZED HERE
I	(Funds obtained through all memberships are devoted to the pur-
I	chase of books and the growth and expansion of the library.
J	Each member, in consideration of his contribution, will have placed
I	in the library a new volume with a Notre Dame Library Association
J	book plate.)
Ml	Name of Applicant ........................................
rV	Address ...................................................
Ill	City ..........................................................
11 i
i w

and Non-Alumni Is Needed
DURING the last year I have been delighted by the
letters appearing from time to time in the ALUM-
NUS magazine concerning the library—one by Walter
Trohan, ’26, chief of the Chicago Tribune’s Washington
(D. C.) bureau; another by Vern Sneider, ’40, whose
novel, “Teahouse of the August Moon,” won the 1954
Puhtzer Prize for drama; and a third by Professor John
Frederick of the University’s Department of English. In
this issue of NOTRE DAME there is a significant letter
from our dear friend and benefactor, Mrs. E. M. Morris,
Chairman of the Women’s Advisory Council. And there
is an article on the new Notre Dame Library Association.
I am impressed by the intelligent and general concern
shown in these expressions for our Library and its books,
for, certainly, as we work towards a greater and greater
University we must do so in terms of an ever-greater
Library.
The president of a university is, as you know, a
traveller. For committees and councils, for degrees and
director’s meetings, for speeches and conferences the
president frequently leaves the campus. Fortunately, on
such trips I have visited many of the world’s famous
universities and have seen the libraries created by these
universities. May I say that as I have studied such in-
stitutions a new Library for Notre Dame has taken high
priority in my dreams for the future.
The new Library is so far only in the talking stage.
But we must all pray for it and hope and dream that it
will soon go up on the campus. It must be the place
where students of the future will be delighted to spend
many hours of every day. There in silence they will meet
the best of books from the greatest of minds; there in the
quiet by themselves they will carry on the search for
knowledge and truth that will change their whole lives.
In the past few years we have revised our curricula
and developed new programs of study. Two thousand
separate courses are now being taught at Notre Dame.
These courses require the use of an ever increasing num-
ber of books. The Women’s Advisory Council, recogniz-
ing our need, conceived and launched the Notre Dame
Library Association. I express my heartfelt thanks to all
the members of our Women’s Advisory Council, and
especially to Mrs. Morris the chairman, for the work they
are doing, because the Library Association will perform
a service of universal significance to Notre Dame. I urge
all of you, our Notre Dame Family, to become members
of the Library Association and support our program. The
success of the organization depends on enlisting your
interest and support. We need your membership if we
are to expand our Library. On your part, as members
of the Library Association, you should find great con-
solation in the fact that every new volume purchased with
your help will have a Notre Dame Library Association
plate.
You should find wonderful satisfaction in knowing
you helped, not only to build a great Library, but also to
influence the lives of students for many years to come.
Great libraries, as you know, exist apart from univer-
sities but no university can ever be great without a great
library.
This is my first chance to greet you since my reappoint-
ment to the Office of the President. I extend best wishes
to all of you from all at Notre Dame. Pray for us.
And may the Good Lord bless you and yours.
V
er
n
NEW APPOINTMENTS ON CAMPUS
Father Grimm Named Religious Superior
At the conclusion of a triennial Provincial Chapter on
the Notre Dame campus: Rev. Richard Grimm,
C.S.G., was named superior of the Holy Cross priests
and Brothers associated with the University. He succeeds
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, G.S.C., whose term as
superior was limited to six years by canon law. Father
Hesburgh was re-appointed Notre Dame president last
April. A native of Peoria, HL, Father Grimm has served
as assistant superior and professor of religion at Notre
Dame since 1953.
Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., head of Notre Dame’s
English department since 1953, has been appointed vice
president for academic affairs. He succeeds Rev. Philip
S. Moore, C.S.C., who will serve as academic assistant
to the president. Father Soleta is a native of South Bend,
Ind., and a specialist in critical theory and the English
literature of the Romantic period.
Rev. George G. Bernard, G.S.G., was named vice
president for student affairs at Notre Dame succeeding
Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., who becomes director of
the University of Portland (Ore.) Foundation.
Rev. Glenn R. Boarman, C.S.C., a native of
Springfield, HL, was appointed Notre Dame’s prefect of
religion. A member of the philosophy faculty, he succeeds
Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., who will resume teaching at
the University.
Other Holy Cross priests receiving new appointments
at Notre Dame include Rev. Ferdinand Brown, C.S.G.,
assistant religious superior; Rev. John H. Wilson, C.S.C.,
administrative assistant to the president; and Rev. Robert
Lochner, C.S.C., assistant prefect of religion.
Father Grimm, who holds an electrical engineering
degree from Notre Dame, entered the novitiate of the
Holy Cross Fathers in 1929. He joined the Notre Dame
faculty following his ordination in 1937. From 1941 to
1950 he was superior of Holy Cross Seminary on the
campus and from 1950 to 1953 he was prefect of religion
at Notre Dame.
Father Soleta joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1946
after receiving his doctorate at Yale University. He
entered Holy Cross Seminary in 1929 and was graduated
from Notre Dame in 1938. He was ordained to the
priesthood in 1942.
Father Bernard, a specialist in moral theology, began
teaching at Notre Dame in 1952 after receiving a doctor-
ate in sacred theology from the Catholic University of
America, Washington, D. C- He enrolled at Notre Dame
as a layman in 1939 and entered the Holy Cross Fathers’
novitiate in 1942. He was graduated from Notre Dame
in 1945 and was ordained four years later.
Father Boarman, who will coordinate religious activi-
ties on the campus and edit the Religious Bulletin, has
been serving as assistant director of admissions and assist-
ant professor of philosophy at the University. In earlier
years he was coordinator of summer conventions. He
began his studies for the priesthood in 1941, was gradu-
ated from Notre Dame in 1946, and was ordained in
1950.
Father Brown, a native of Portsmouth, Ohio, has been
a member of Notre Dame’s mathematics faculty since
1946. He began his studies for the priesthood at Notre
Dame in 1930 and holds three degrees, including a
doctorate, from the University. He was ordained in
1942.
Father Wilson, bom in Chicago, was graduated from
Notre Dame and the Kent College of Law, Chicago.
He has served as associate editor of THE CATHOLIC
BOY and as director of vocations and assistant director
of province development for the Holy Cross Fathers. He
entered the novitiate in 1934 and was ordained in 1941.
NOTRE DAME	VOL. 11, NO. 3, FALL, 1958
Published quarterly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Entered as second class matter May 10, 1928, at Post Office at Notre Dame,
Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.
. . . Each Student Hall Has A Chapel

4
>

«
• -
Televised to Teachers
Attending Summer School
By James E- Murphy
a
'^13
4
-
CLOSf%.
CiRcU,I
Mathematics Lectures
The author is Director of Public Information
at the
University of Notre Dame.





Dr. Ross prepares for telecast lecture. He uses chess set as a “prop.
All lectures were telecast over University’s station. WNDU-TV.
Class views Dr. Ross on television screen.
4

Notre dame^s first experiment with TV as a medium
for academic instruction was held during the
Summer School sessions when two hundred and fifty high
school teachers attended a series of two-week lectures in
mathematics via closed circuit television.
Dr. Arnold Ross, head of the mathematics department,
lectured on “Boolean Algebra” from the studios of
WNDU-TV, the University-operated television station.
His students, many of them nuns, took notes in several
TV-equipped classrooms in the O’Shaughnessy Hall of
Liberal and Fine Arts across the campus. The project
was arranged with the cooperation of Bernard Barth, vice
president and general manager of the campus station.
For some time, Dr. Ross disclosed, Notre Dame offi-
cials have been eager to determine the problems involved
in teaching via television. The actual lectures, he said,
represented only one part of the experiment. They were
followed by several round-table discussions, off-camera, in
which the high school teachers evaluated TV as a medium
foi' instruction, particularly in mathematics. Ross
observed that those enrolled in the class “are not only
interested in mathematics; they also have a professional
interest in teaching and teaching methods.”
He stressed that the experiment was not just to put
the classroom on television. Rather, he continued, “we
will try to take advantage of the opportunities of the
medium as well as cope with its difficulties. There is a
lot to be learned.”
At the conclusion of the lecture series, Dr. Ross stated:
“I feel that something very significant can be done with
this new medium if we proceed with intelligence and
imagination. The students have shown great interest and
enthusiasm in our experiment.”
gs
. . Educational Television
jr_
ZTTTT
High school teachers enrolled in Mathematics
courses included many nuns.
Evaluation of the experiment was made by Dr. Ross,
his associates and the class.
CLOSED
CIRCUIT
CIAS5RO°*
However, he and his associates point out that the
medium of educational television, while exciting and
fascinating, has inherent limitations. Ross remarked, “The
problem is that in treating a large number of students as
a unit in the televised lecture, the teacher' loses that
contact with the individual student and his problems that
is a vital part of education.”
“One result,” he continued, “of completely televised
educational systems would be that the professor would
have no way of spotting and working with the gifted
students in his class.”
Group discussions with the students in the experi-
mental program leads Ross to believe that speed of learn-
ing and retention of material is about as fast as in the
normal classroom lecture. However, he feels that several
more years of experimentation are necessary before edu-
cational television can be adequately evaluated.
WWW
"WWW*!
wW-Sf


cMEPMecmmw r>**i*-




Planning
FOR
College
Professional Counselor
Should Be Consulted
By Rev. Richard D. Murphy, C.S.C.
The author is Director of Admissions at Notre
Dame and previously was a member of the faculty
at the University of Portland and at St. Edward’s
University. He graduated from Notre Dame in
1931 and was ordained to the priesthood three
years later. Father Murphy is a member of the
American Council of Admissions Counselors, the
College Entrance Examination Board and the
General Motors Scholarship Board.
We would like to offer you some specific recom-
mendations to help in your preparation for college.
They apply to any boy who will continue his studies,
either at Notre Dame or at some other college, or in one
of the professions or technical schools.
Reading is of fundamental importance to persons seek-
ing a college education. Most of our knowledge comes
through reading. It is suggested that students preparing
for college take a reading test to ascertain ability to read
with speed and ease and to comprehend what is read.
If such tests are not available in your school, or if a
reading clinic is not established in your community, this
examination can be achieved through reading a para-
graph or a chapter of an unfamiliar book and then with-
out reference to the book, attempt to summarize its
contents in your own words. If the student has diffi-
culty doing this, it is recommended that the effort be
continued until the ability is mastered to pick the im-
portant thoughts out of a paragraph.
The amount of reading is highly important for general
background. It need not be confined to the classics, but
students should develop a daily habit of reading some-
thing not required. The material may be from history,
biography, travel, or fiction—in other words, any type
of wholesome book. Perhaps there may be an interest
in one special field of reading—the history of a country,
or the development of certain forms of government, or
the background of an important scientific discovery.
In selecting a high school program, students should
be certain that they have the required academic courses.
For almost any college program, the following is manda-
tory: minimum of three years of English, two years of
mathematics, two years of foreign language, one or two
years of history or other social science, and at least one
year of a laboratory science. It is suggested that college
prep students take a course in English and one in mathe-
matics for each of the four years in high school.
If an adequate counseling service is available in the
school be certain to take advantage of it. An interest
inventory test should be completed early in the high
school curriculum, and if possible, this should be re-
peated in the junior year or early in the senior year. A
counselor will discuss the results of these tests with each
student. If tests are unavailable in your school, write to
the college in which you are interested for information
on the subject. For many years, educators have upheld
the validity of these tests, and recently, industry has
become more and more aware of their importance.
Results of interest tests, in addition to College Boards and
high school transcript, provide the Admissions Office with
8 NOTRE DAME
$5,000,000 Is Needed For
Father Richard Murphy, Director of Admissions.
necessary data on which to predict the individual’s
success in college.
It is extremely important that good study habits be
developed as soon as possible. Admission to college will
be based partly on the complete high school record, not
on just the last year. Of those denied admission to
college, only about one out of eight is rejected because of
lack of ability, but almost two out of three are not ad-
mitted because of low grades in high school. Approxi-
mately one out of four is denied because of lack of
proper subject matter.
Write to the college of your choice, at least in the
junior year, to allow ample time to satisfy all the require-
ments for admission.
applicant will have in college. Under certain circum-
stances he can predict that the student is not likely to
succeed as an Engineer or as a Fine Arts major. His
decision will be made by comparing the applicant’s
record with that of thousands who have entered the
University and have succeeded or failed. Standard apti-
tude and interest tests, given by many high schools, are
extremely helpful in determining the applicant’s real
interests—what future will be brightest for him—rand
deciding on certain courses of study.
The importance of selecting the proper course in
college cannot be overstressed. Many students who have
the ability to do well in one field of endeavor are com-
pletely unprepared for some other program, either because
of lack of interest or lack of background. For example,
the mere fact that a boy’s father is a successful doctor
does not necessarily indicate that the son has sufficient
interest or background for the medical profession.
While students certainly should discuss vocational
interests with their parents, our experience over many
years has taught us that parents are often not the best
counselors for their sons in regard to the choice of a pro-
fession. For the selection of a college career, a pro-
fessional counselor, armed with all the information obtain-
able from the best tests, is an indispensable help and he
will be happy to discuss the results of these tests with
students and with parents.
Success in college depends on intellectual capacity,
achievements in school, motivation or the will to win
over obstacles, and the selection of a proper college pro-
gram.
Native ability or intellectual capacity is measured by
the 'College Board tests. The Scholastic Aptitude Test is
indicative, first, of the student’s comprehension of Eng-
lish, use of words, and in general the ability to learn;
and second, an ability to reason, that is the capacity to
think logically. The College Board exams are admin-
istered by the Educational Testing Service of Princeton,
New Jersey.
Academic achievement is measured by high school
grades—not for the senior year only—and by the Achieve-
ment Tests of the College Boards. In the evaluation of
grades, the size of high school attended, honors, courses,
and academic load are taken into account. An A" in
Physical Education will not offset a D in English or
Math. The average will be based on the academic sub-
jects (English, Math, Science, Language and History).
Student motivation is measured by rank in class,
activities, and by the recommendation received from your
principal or counselor. Excessive social or athletic
activities will not offset a low average, nor will a straight
A transcript offset a total neglect of social life or a
healthy sports interest. In other words, the ideal ap-
plicant should have time for books, for play, for fun and
for prayer and should give himself completely to each
in its time and place.
With this information available, the Admissions
Officer can best estimate what chances of success the
Entrance Requirements
College of Arts and Letters
or
College of Commerce
1.	all required:	units
English -------------   3
History  1
Algebra -------------   1
Geometry, Plane ------ 1
Science (Lab.) ....... 1
Language, Foreign ----- 2
2.	At least three units required
from Group A.
3.	Not more than three units
accepted from Group B.
4.	Minimum of 15 units total.
College of Engineering
or
College of Science
1.	all required:	units
English 3
History ----------------- 1
Algebra  1
Inter, or Adv. Algebra—%
Geometry, Plane ----------1
Trigonometry -------------%
Physics* -----------------1
Language, Foreign .-------2
* (Physics or Chemistry	for
the College of Science)
2.	At least three units required
from Group A.
3.	Not more than three units
accepted from Group B.
4.	Minimum of 15 units total.
GE.OUP A: English, Latin, Greek, German, Trench, Spanish, His-
tory, Intermediate or Advanced Algebra, Solid Geom-
etry, Trigonometry, Physiography, Physiology, Astron-
omy, Botany, Zoology, Chemistry, Physics.
GROUP B: Commercial, vocational, music, art, and similar
subjects credited toward graduation.
The Unit is the credit for a year of satisfactory work in an accred-
ited secondary school.
Less than % unit in any subject is not accepted. The two required
units in a language must be in the same language.
Scholarships, Fellowships . . .
THE GREATEST YEAR
IN SPORTS at Notre Dame
f


a
FOOTBALL:
0
of xAthletics;
Control
W. Krause. Director
rence H. Baldinger.
of Athletics: (3) Dean Law-
member of Faculty Board in
(41 J. Arthur Haley, member



BASEBALL: Won
A.A.
Tournament:
1 □, Lost 6.
Won 2,
Lost 2.

SWIMMING: Won


6, Lost 5.

TRACK:
Won 5, Lost 1.
CROSS COUNTRY:
Won 2, Lost 1.
N.C.A.A. Cross
Country Champions.

WRESTLING: Won 7, Lost 2.



(11 Rev. Edmund P.
Joyce. C.S.C.. Chairman of Faculty
Board in Control of Athletics; (2) Edward
of Faculty Board in Control of Athletics; <5, John Mc-
Allister. superintendent of athletic equipment: * 61 Eugene
S. Paszkiet. trainer: : 7 Len Kahler, assistant ticket man-
ager; 8; Roger Valdiserri. administrative assistant to
Coach Brennan: i 9 < Joseph F. Dierickx. stadium superin-
tendent: i 10’ Robert Cahill. Ticket Manager; 111' Rev.
James E. Norton. C.S.C., member of Faculty Board in
Control of Athletics: (12) Terry Brennan, head coach of
football: tT3‘i .Alex Wilson, head coach of track and
cross country’; (14) Gilfred A. Burdick, swimming coach;
10
NOTRE DAME
4
otre dame atliletic teams enjoyed their greatest
season when more than 100 victories were achieved during
the 1957-58 school year. The indoor track and fencing
squads were undefeated while participants in tennis, cross
country’ and outdoor track each suffered only one setback.
Coach Alex Wilson’s cross country runners were crowned
National Collegiate Athletic Association champions: the
basketball, fencing and baseball teams also had excellent
records in N.C.A.A. competition. Including post-season
tournaments, Notre Dame’s ten varsity squads won 107
victories while losing 24. The scores of two non-
varsity groups, swimming and sailing, are listed below.
3.
TENNIS: Won 17, Lost 1.
GOLF:
Won 12, Lost
SAILING:
Won three meets, placed
in three others.
>n 7, Lost 3.
FENCING:
Won 16, Lost 0.
N.CAA. Tournament:
Notre Dame, sixth.




115) Michael A. Decic- ‘	.
assistant fencing coach:
Bill Fischer, assistant football
coach: i 17 । Bernie Crimmins, assistant
football coach: (18) Bernie Witucki. assistant
football coach: (19' Henry Stram. assistant football
coach: (20) Rev. Robert Pelton. C.S.C.. swimming team
BASKETBALL: Won 22, Lost
4.
N.C.A.A. Tournament: Won 2, Lost 1.

moderator: <21 1 Rev. George L. Holderith. C.S.C.. golf
coach: 122) Bill Walsh, assistant football coach: <23
Jack Zilly. assistant football coach: i 24 1 Clarence ‘'Jake”
Kline, baseball coach; (25 ) Captain Michael A. Fucci. as-
sistant wrestling coach: (26' Thomas A. Fallon, head
o
coach of wrestling and tennis: 27 Walter M. Langford,
head coach of fencing: 28) John Jordan, head coach of
basketball: । 29 Pat Singleton, grounds superintendent:
130) Charlie Callahan. Sports Publicity Director: 31
Herb Jones, Business Manager of Athletics.
11
I
Heading the department
is Professor Thomas J. Stritch.
(Below) Professor Edward J. Fischer
lectures to future journalists.
This student is working on a layout
stressing creative design.
12
NOTRE DAME
The new Department of Communication Arts is the
recognition of a fact and the expression of a hope.
The fact is the interdependence of communications
in the mid-twentieth century. For years, the word
“journalism,” the name of a department of studies at
Notre Dame since 1913, was sufficient to indicate the
nature of communications. To reach a large audience,
you printed.
Several things happened to change that. With the
coming of radio, writing for the ear became as important
as writing for the eye. Pictures, still and motion, became
more and more helpful as a way of communicating
information. Television came along to make use of all
existing modes of reaching people’s minds. Somewhere
along the line drama stepped through the proscenium
arch to embrace a mass audience. And as this widening
and overlapping took place a demand grew for men who
could communicate not just in one medium but in several.
The hope of the new department is to help raise the
level of all communications media by educating 'Catholics
of talent to work in them. To realize this hope the de-
partment must test every course by what it contributes to
developing an educated man, as opposed to a gimmick-
user. Reading, writing, and knowledge are the basis of
a liberal education, and this should be especially true in
Communication Arts.
A student who wishes to major in Communication
Arts must in his freshman and sophomore years take the
regular liberal arts courses prescribed for all students in
the College of Arts and Letters. He does not begin his
major until his junior year. Even then he continues to
take background courses, but he adds to them whatever
specialized courses will be needful in his life’s work:
Training the Speaking Voice, Acting, Directing, Writing
Gifts To Notre Dame

Writing, Acting, Designing,
Public Relations and Public
Speaking Will Be Taught
In New Department
for the Press, Design, Magazine Writing, Public Relations,
Public Affairs Reporting, Telecommunications, and Con-
temporary Culture.
For students not majoring, the department offers
electives in speech, forensics, and several drama and
writing courses.
The head of the new department, Professor Thomas
J. Stritch, a native of Nashville, Tenn., has had varied
experience in press and public relations work. During
World War II he was a lieutenant commander in the
Navy. He first joined the Notre Dame faculty after
getting his Master of Arts degree here in 1935 and was
named head of the Journalism Department in 1947.
Establishment of the Communication Arts Department
underscores the unity of the entire communications field,
according to Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., presi-
dent. He noted the easy passage of personnel from the
daily press to advertising and public relations or to tele-
vision and radio. The trend in American universities
toward communication arts departments “reflects the
search for essential educational disciplines rather than
narrow technical training in these areas,” he asserted.
Father Hesburgh re-emphasized the liberal character
of Notre Dame’s education for communications. “Tech-
niques must not be used to conceal thin substance,” he
said.
Exceptionally broad opportunities for practical ex-
perience are available to Notre Dame students at WNDU-
TV and WNDU, the University’s commercial television
and radio stations, WSND, the student-operated radio
station, the highly successful University Theater, the stu-
dent news magazine and yearbook and many special
publications published on campus.
(Top) Prof. Fischer’s class pro-
duces motion picture film featuring
world-famous University song,
Notre Dame Victory March.
(Right) Drama plays an
important role in the
Communication Arts Department.
Student debaters prepare for extensive schedule under the
direction of Prof. Leonard F. Sommer, coach.

Are Tax Deductible
13

MANAGEMENT
PROGRAM
By John Thar in
The author is a senior at Notre Dame and
is editor of the Dome, student yearbook.
(Top, left) Professor John R. Malone emphasizes points on Marketing Management.
(Bottom photo) Class listens to professorial panel.
College of Commerce
Sponsors Sessions


*
Corporate executives, ranging from presidents to
department heads, have received specialized train-
ing in a unique course offered by the College of Com-
merce. Known as the Management Program it was
started last year, resulting in an over-capacity registra-
tion for the 24-week cycle. Leading companies in the
area, including Bendix, Whirlpool, and Associates In-
vestment among others, sent representatives to the campus
for the once-each-week class session.
Faculty members, led by Dean James W. Culliton and
Assistant Dean Thomas Timothy Murphy who serves as
director of the Program, were chosen for this assignment
because of their business experience as well as academic
training. Those who assisted on the staff were Professor
John R. Malone, head of the Department of Marketing;
Professor LeClair H. Eells, head of the Department of
Finance; Professor James Dincolo, head of the Depart-
ment of Accounting; Vincent R. Raymond, assistant pro-
fessor of business administration; Professor Frank O’Mal-
ley of the English Department; and Professor A. Robert
Caponigri, of the Philosophy Department.
Essentially the course is intended to broaden the
executive’s understanding of business enterprises and to
help them prepare for opportunities at higher managerial
levels. Instruction is given in business economics, market-
ing management, business finance and control, human
relations, communications and business policy.
14 NOTRE DAME
At the completion of the first regular semester
schedule, certificates were presented to sixty businessmen
employed by forty-two firms. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce,
G.S.'C., executive vice president, officiated at the ceremony
while Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., director of the
Notre Dame Foundation, delivered an address to the
group. This particular program extended over a 24-week
period.
As part of the University’s program of continuing
responsibility to its graduates, the Summer Management
Program was based upon the idea that a successful
executive is more than a technically proficient man. It
consisted of three one-week sessions with a new group of
alumni entering each week.
The sessions, held from 9-11:30 a.m. and 1:30-4 p.m,
each day, were divided into classes limited to thirty
persons for complete discussion.
Although the Management Program is relatively new,
Notre Dame has conducted several similar courses. For
the last six years the College of Commerce has held a
foremanship school for area supervisory personnel.
These College of Commerce programs are part of a
national trend at Notre Dame to assist alumni and other
friends of the University to “better” their standard of
living and help them to take advantage of opportunities
in the business world.
For A Greater Notre Dame . . .


Broadcast Irish Grid Gaines
On ABC Network This Fall
Taking over the rights for broadcasting Notre Dame’s
ten football games this Fall is the American Broadcasting
Company radio network. This marks the third straight
year that Notre Dame’s entire schedule will be broadcast
to every part of the United States by a national network.
Handling the microphone will be veteran sportscasters
Joe Boland and Harry Wismer. The series is sponsored
by the Pontiac Division of General Motors.
As a service to Notre Dame’s alumni and non-alumni
friends, this magazine lists the following radio stations
which will feature Fighting Irish grid games in 1958:
KENTUCKY
Lexington	WLAV
Louisville	WKLO
LOUISIANA
Alexandria	KALB
New Orleans	WSMB
Opelousas	KSLO
Shreveport	KRMD
MAINE
ALABAMA
Birmingham	WCRT
Florence ARIZONA	WOWL
Bisbee	KSUN
Douglas	KAWT
Flagstaff	KVNA
Globe	KWJB
Kingman	KAAA
Nogales	KNOT
Phoenix	KOY
Safford	KGLU
Sierra Vista	KHFH
Tucson	KTUC
Winslow	KVNC
Yuma	KVOY
ARKANSAS El Dorado CALIFORNIA	KBLD
Bakersfield	KPMC
Blythe	KYOR
Brawley	KROP
Fresno	KARM
Indio	KREO
Los Angeles	KABG
Modesto	KFIV
Porterville Redlands-	WTIP
San Bernardino	KCAL
Sacramento	KFBK
San Diego	KBAB
San Francisco	KGO
Santa Barbara	KTMS
Stockton	KWG
Yreka COLORADO	KSYG
Denver	KVOD
Pueblo CONNECTICUT	KGHF
Bridgeport	WNAB
Hartford	WPOP
New Haven	WNHG
Stamford	WSTC
Waterbury DELAWARE	WATR
Wilmington	WDEL
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA	
Washington FLORIDA	WMAL
Daytona Beach	WNDB
Key West	WKWF
Miami	WKAT
Orlando Tampa-	WHOO
St. Petersburg	WSUN
GEORGIA	
Augusta	WGAC
Atlanta	WYZE
Brunswick	WGIG
Gainesville	WGGG
Moultrie	WMGA
Rome	WLAQ
Savannah	WFRP
IDAHO	
Burley	KBAR
Idaho Falls	KIFI
ILLINOIS	
Canton	WBYS
Chicago	WLS
Moline	KFMA
Springfield	WGVS
INDIANA	
Evansville	WJPS
Fort Wayne	WGL
Indianapolis	WFBM
Richmond	WKBV
South Bend	WNDU
South Bend	WSBT
IOWA	
Davenport	KFMA
Des Moines	KWDM
Sioux City	KSCJ
KANSAS	
Wichita	KANS
Lewistown-Auburn	WLAM
Waterville	WTVL
MASSACHUSETTS	
Boston	WTAO
Pittsfield	WBEG
Springfield	WTXL
Worcester	WAA:
MARYLAND	
Baltimore	WWIN
Hagerstown	WJEJ
MICHIGAN	
Detroit	WXYZ
Flint	WTAC
Grand Rapids	WLAV
Muskegon	WKBZ
MINNESOTA	
Minneapolis-St. Paul WISK
Winona	KWNO
MISSISSIPPI
Hattiesburg	WHSY
Jackson	WSLI
MISSOURI
St. Louis	WAMV
NEVADA
Las Vegas	KENO
Reno	KOLO
NEW MEXICO
Los Alamos	KRSN
Raton	KRTN
NEW YORK Albany	WOKO
Binghamton	WENE
Buffalo	WGR
Corning	WCLI
Jamestown	WJTN
Massena	WMSA
University of Notre Dame
1958 Football Schedule
Sept. 27—Indiana at Notre Dame
Oct. 4—Southern Methodist at Dallas
Oct. 11—Army at Notre Dame
Oct. 18—Duke at Notre Dame
Oct. 25—Purdue at Notre Dame
Nov. 1—Navy at Baltimore
Nov. 8—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh
Nov. 15—North Carolina at Notre Dame
Nov. 22—Iowa at Iowa City
Nov. 29—So. California at Los Angeles
New York	WABC
Olean	WHDL
Plattsburg	WEAV
Poughkeepsie	WKIP
Rochester	WVET
Saranac Lake	WNBZ
Syracuse	WFBL
Utica	WTLB
NORTH CAROLINA	
Asheville	WLOS
Charlotte	WCGG
Fayetteville	WFLB
Raleigh	WKIX
Reidsville	WFRC
Washington NORTH DAKOTA	WRRF
Fargo OHIO	KFGO
Akron	WHKK
Cincinnati	WCKY
Cleveland	WSRS
Columbus	WOOL
Springfield	WIZE
Toledo	WTOD
Youngstown OKLAHOMA	WBBW
Oklahoma City OREGON	KBYE
Eugene	KASH
Portland PENNSYLVANIA	KGW
Erie	WERC
Harrisburg	WKBO’
Lancaster	WLAN
Philadelphia	WFIL
Pittsburgh	KQV
Reading	WEEU
Scranton	WARM
Wilkes-Barre	WILK
Williamsport	WMPT
York RHODE ISLAND	WSBA
Providence	WPAW
SOUTH CAROLINA	
Columbia SOUTH DAKOTA	WCOS
Aberdeen	KSDN
Sioux Falls TENNESSEE	KSOO
Nashville	WNAH
Memphis TEXAS	WHHM
Austin	KNOW
Beaumont	KFDM
Brownsville	KBOR
Lufkin	KRBA
Nacogdoches	KOSF
San Antonio UTAH	KMAC
Provo VERMONT	KIXX
Montpelier VIRGINIA	WSKI
Danville	WBTM
Fredericksburg	WFVA
Marion	WMEV
South Boston WASHINGTON	WHLF
Walla Walla	KTEL
Wenatchee	KPQ
Yakima WEST VIRGINIA	KIMA
Charleston	WHMS
Fairmont	WTCS
Parkersburg	WCOM
Wheeling WISCONSIN	WKWK
Milwaukee	WISN
Green Bay	WDUZ
LaCrosse	WKTY
$66.6 Million in 10 Years
Classes in Russian
Offered at Notre Dame
During Past 12 Years
Bv Paul A. Decker
NOTRE DAME
The University Was Founded
Department Head Walter M. Langford is also
coach of Notre Dame’s excellent fencing team.
The author is a senior in the College of Arts and
Letters. His home is in Oakmont, Pa.

Tape recorder assists student to distinguish
“sounds” of foreign language.



he curriculum in modern languages at Notre Dame
provides the student with a unique cultural experi-
ence, a broadening of liberal knowledge and a deepen-
ing of his human sympathies. Named head of the De-
partment in 1946, Professor Walter M. Langford has
stressed the practical spoken language and arranged for
N.D. students to take summer courses at Mexico City
College.
Since starting an accelerated freshman program in
1954 there has been a definite increase in the enthusiasm
for languages. Under this plan, freshman take six hours
of language each week for two semesters.
The most popular languages are French, German and
Spanish while the newest trend is an avid interest in
Russian.
Notre Dame has offered classes in Russian since 1946
and was one of the first universities to realize its possi-
bilities. In 1959 the Department hopes to start a summer
workshop in the language and civilization of Russia.
The Department plans to reintroduce Polish and
Portuguese in the near future as well as Celtic. The
’ -
&
1
courses in Celtic will be taught by Professor Robert D.
Nuner, who received a doctorate from Harvard and is one
of the few men in this country who is thus qualified.
During the past 12 years, about 300 students have
increased their fluency in Spanish by taking summer work
in Mexico. This has been one of the most attractive
phases for those vitally interested in learning a foreign
language. If the money becomes available, the Depart-
ment is planning to install an electronic language labo-
ratory within the next two years. The laboratory will
contain recording booths and tape machines to be used
as teaching aids. Another project that is in the “hoped
for stage” is the acquisition of opaque projection equip-
ment for film strips, slides, and opaque projections.
At present the Department has a 16mm movie pro-
jector and screen and a library of about 20 foreign films
including sound reels in French, German and Spanish.
The Department also has two tape recorders and a
3-speed record player. Approximately 200 records and
300 tapes are available for students enrolled in modem
language classes.
These items are particularly useful during the summer
session to train teachers for the FLES program (Foreign
Languages in the Elementary School). More than half
a million children in grade schools across the country are
now taking foreign language as part of their regular
studies. Notre Dame was a pioneer in this program.
Summer school classes are designed to aid teachers in
speaking various languages besides describing the latest
classroom methods. The director of the summer work-
shop is Dr. Charles E. Parnell who has gained much
experience over the last three years by teaching French to
four hundred children at Holy Cross Grade School in
South Bend.
The faculty consists of sixteen full-time teachers plus
nine who hold fellowships and instruct on a part-time
basis. In addition to teaching, the members of the staff
have a wide range of talents and interests: Professor
, Adrien Theriault has published novels and short stories
i	and has written plays for presentation over GBF in Mon-
treal; Professor William H. Bennett, is one of the top
linguistic scientists in the country having lectured at uni-
versities overseas and in the U. S. The staff and the
5	students have won many grants and awards. Professor
William J. Grupp and Professor Bennett have studied and
lectured in Spain on a grant from the Spanish Govern-
ment.
I
The spirit of the Department stems from the enthu-
siasm of students and faculty which is often reflected in
special awards and grants given to both groups. For
example, Professors Grupp and Bennett are recipients of
study grants in foreign countries. Rhodes, Fulbright, Ford
’i	and other scholarships have been presented to department
:	students. This enthusiasm is felt in the expanding courses
of the standard languages, the introduction of new
languages, the demand of better facilities, and the number
of awards and grants received by students and faculty.
In 18^ By A French, Priest
an..AMUlH
The notre dame student body has presented a check
for $9,000 to the University administration to
establish a series of scholarships beginning with the 1958-
59 school year. Designated the Notre Dame Student
Body Scholarship Fund, the money represents a sub-
stantial portion of the receipts from last year’s Mardi
Gras Campus Carnival and it is the first major student
gift in the University’s ten-year, $66,600,000 development
program.
According to Jerry Brady, retiring Student Body presi-
dent, $6,000 of the new fund will provide scholarships
for freshmen entering Notre Dame this Fall. Three
incoming freshmen will be awarded $500 grants for each
of their four years at the University. Grants totaling
$3,000 have been allocated to sophomores, juniors and
seniors at the discretion of the University’s scholarship
committee. Brady and William D. Shaul, newly-elected
Student Body president, indicated that the scholarships
will be continued in future years and financed by Mardi
Gras receipts.
The scholarships are to be awarded, they explained,
on the basis of academic excellence, financial need and
personality factors. Freshmen scholarship recipients must
maintain an academic average of 85% to remain eligible
for the grants in succeeding years.
Shaul pointed out that the rising costs of higher
education, especially in private schools, are making it
increasingly difficult for gifted students of moderate means
to attend the college of their choice. He cited “a tremen-
o
dous need for more scholarships.” The allocation of
student funds for this purpose, he said, represents the
highest ideals of student government and dramatizes its
real purpose—“to make a significant contribution to the
academic process.”
Brochure Omissions
The preparation of voluminous data for the
new brochure, announcing Notre Dame’s 10-year
$66.6 million program, was completed in a
relatively limited period of time. It was in-
evitable that some mistakes would occur since
research was compiled from more than 70,000
records. For these inadvertent oversights, the
editor expresses his sincere apologies and lists the
following omissions which have been referred to
the Foundation office:
1842-1946—
Bequest—Peter G. Bums, $25,000 for Grad-
uate Fellowships (1928).
Scholarships—New York City Alumni Club.
1947-1957—
Corporation Contributors — Office Engi-
neers; King, Easley & Co. (both of South
Bend, Ind.)
Contributors of $500—and more—Gustave
M. Kerndt (now deceased); William O’Neill,
Cleveland, O.; Class of 1928.
Scholarships—■
Alumni Clubs:
Cleveland,
Detroit,
Philadelphia,
St. Louis.
Student Body
Establishes
Scholarship
Fund
Father Hesburgh receives Student Body scholar-
ship check from Jerry Brady (center)
and William D. Shaul.
18
NOTRE DAME


GIFTS RECEIVED
THROUGH
ESTATE PLANNING
A contribution to the University of Notre Dame
through the execution of a carefully prepared Will
perpetuates the memory of the donor, or the memories
of relatives and friends specified by the donor. These
memorials provide a means of achieving many major
objectives for the University and whether the gift be
munificent or modest it is accepted with sincere grati-
tude. Only through a Will can probate expense and
taxes pertaining to the deceased be held to a minimum.
Notre Dame’s 10-year program to obtain $66.6 million
offers hiany possibilities for those who may desire to
remember the University in their Will. Contributions
can be restricted for faculty development, research, stu-
dent aid, special administrative funds and new buildings.
Generous benefactors to the University, through the
form of Wills and Bequests, have included alumni and
non-alumni friends as listed below. Three recent gifts
have been received from the estates of Mr. Emil V.
Molle, a member of the 1910 class, Mr. John McFadden,
a loyal friend who attended the University of Penn-
sylvania, and Mrs. Elise K. John.
WILLS AND BEQUESTS
$40,000 from Mr. William J. Corbett for the Medi-
aeval Library (1949)
$1,115 from Lt. Elmore C. Smith, ’50, for Student
Center (1952)
$11,000 from Mr. Thomas Carey for the Thomas
and Margaret Carey Memorial Fund (1952)
$3,000 from Mr. Charles F. L. Heineman for Schol-
arship Fund (1953)
$2,500 from Mr. Anton A. Rosenberger, ’07, for
Unrestricted Purposes (1953)
$22,705 from Mrs. Alwilda Harvey for the Prin-
cipal Fund (1955)
★ $50,000 from Mr. Charles Williams for the Law
School (1955)
■fa $56,327 from Mr. Arthur S. Funk, ’06, for Endow-
ment (1955)	•
★ $131,691 from the Joseph N. Podrasnik Foundation
for Scholarships (1955-1956-1957)
$225,000 from Dr. Albert F. Zahm, ’83, for Gradu-
ate Study and Unrestricted Purposes (1956)
$1,000 from Mr. Paul Rush, ’12, for Faculty De-
velopment (1956)
$1,000 from Mrs. Bessie B. Lewis for Scholarship
Fund (1956)
$140,000 from Mrs. Claribel O. Hering for Scholar-
ships ($40,000—valuable articles) (1957)
$54,224 from Mrs. Anna C. Slavin for Scholarship
Fund (1957)
$1,000 from Professor Henry C. F. Staunton for
Unrestricted Purposes (1957)
$150 from Mr. Emil V. Molle, ’10, for Unrestricted
Purposes (1958)
$5,000 from Mrs. Elise K. John for Unrestricted
Purposes (1958)
$6,475 from Mr. John McFadden for Unrestricted
Purposes (1958)
For the guidance of those considering making a bequest to the
University of Notre Dame, the following form is suggested:
I hereby give and bequeath to the University of Notre Dame du Lac, an Indiana corporation, at
Notre Damej Indiana, the sum of______________dollars.
All the rest, residue, and remainder of my estate, both real and personal, I give, devise, and
bequeath to the University of Notre Dame du Lac, a corporation, located at Notre Dame, Indiana.
4
. Jr
Edward J
offered to those who
program of
bonds, real
estate or
Estate Planning—includes creation of a
revocable
Student Aid needs $5,000,000 for
scholarships, fellowships, direct loans.
Many deserving young men are unable
to attend college without financial
assistance. In reality, the University
defrays about one-third of the cost of
each student's education.
New Buildings will cost a minimum
of $18,600,000 to construct.
The proposed structures include
additions to Commerce, Engineering and
Law; a Library, (2) Graduate Halls,
Priests’ Faculty Building, Maintenance
Center, Auditorium and Fieldhouse.
Endowment for Increased Faculty
Salaries will require $27,000,000.
Funds will be used to stabilize and
strengthen the present faculty as well as
to attract some of the world's outstanding
teachers to the Notre Dame campus.
Contributions for Research must total
at least $11,000,000.
Scientific investigations are already being
conducted here in heart disease, cancer,
radiation sickness, tooth decay,
electronics, aeronautics, nuclear studies—
all directly related to the
welfare of mankind.
educating
Administrative Special Funds for
lay employees will equal $5,000,000.
The University must establish a
retirement plan and increase salaries
for the administrative staff, particularly
during the next decade.
For additional information please address:
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION
Notre Dame, Indiana

IN announcing the University s 10-year program for
$66.6 million. Father Hesburgh stated, “Notre
Dame’s progress has been aided by many factors, chief
of which have been the dedicated lives of its faculty and
the financial support received from its alumni and other
friends, from corporations and foundations . . . whose
growing generosity provides the means to realize Notre
Dame’s hopes for tomorrow.”
The following “means'5 are
o
wish to support Notre Dame’s
American vouth:
Direct Gift—money, stocks,
physical things :

living trust, gifts of life insurance, remembering
Notre Dame in your will, execution of agreement
covering purchase and sale of business interests in
the estate, and numerous others;
Gifts of art, equipment, books, miscellaneous objects
—these may be of special interest to certain donors.
