
SUMMER-] 96 1
EDITOR — JEROME PARKER
^etare medalists
1883-1961
1883	John Gilmary Shea, historian	1909		Frances Tiernan (Christian Reid), novelist	1935	Francis Hamilton Spearman, novelist
1884	Patrick Charles Keeley,		1910	Maurice Francis Egan,	1936	Richard Reid,
	architect			author and diplomat		lawyer and journalist
1885	Eliza Allen Starr,		1911	Agnes Repplier,	1937	Jeremiah Denis M. Ford,
	art critic			author		scholar
1886	General John Newton,		1912	Thomas M. Mulry,	1938	Irvin William Abell,
	engineer			philanthropist		surgeon
1887	Edward Preuss,		1913	Charles B. Herberman,	1939	Josephine Van Dyke
	publicist			editor-in-chief of the		Brownson, catechist
1888	Patrick V. Hickey,			Catholic Encyclopedia	1940	General Hugh Aloysius
	founder and editor of		1914	Edward Douglas White,		Drum, soldier
	The Catholic Review			jurist and chief justice of the	1941	William Thomas Walsh,
1889	Anna Hansen Dorsey,			United States Supreme Court		journalist and author
	novelist		1915	Mary V. Merrick, philanthropist	1942	Helen Constance White,
1890	William J. Onahan,		1916			author and teacher
	organizer of the			James Joseph Walsh,	1943	Thomas Francis Woodlock,
	American Catholic Congress			physician and author		editor
1891	Daniel Dougherty,		1917	Shepherd Benson,	1944	Anne O’Hare McCormick,
	orator Henry F. Brownson,			admiral and chief of naval operations		journalist
						
1892			1918		1945	G. Howland Shaw,
	philosopher and author			Joseph Scott, lawyer		diplomat
1893	Patrick Donohue,		1919	George L. Duval, philanthropist	1946	Carlton J. H. Hayes,
	founder of the Boston	Pilot				historian and diplomat
1894	Augustine Daly, theatrical producer		1920	Lawrence Francis Flick, physician	1947	William G. Bruce, publisher and civic leader
			1921		1948	Frank C. Walker,
1895	Mary A. Sadlier,			Elizabeth Nourse,		Postmaster General and
	novelist			artist		civic leader
1896	General William Starke		1922	Charles Patrick Neill,	1949	Irene Dunne,
	Rosecrans, soldier			economist		actress
1897	Thomas Addis Emmett,		1923	Walter George Smith,	1950	General Joseph L. Collins,
	physician			lawyer		soldier
1898	Timothy Edward Howard,		1924	Charles D. Maginnis,	1951	John Henry Phelan,
	jurist			architect		philanthropist
1899	Mary Gwendolin Caidwell, philanthropist		1925	Albert Francis Zahm, scientist	1952	Thomas E. Murray, member, U. S. Atomic Energy Commission
1900	John A. Creighton,		1926	Edward Nash Hurley,	1953	I. A. O’Shaughnessy,
	philanthropist			businessman		philanthropist
1901	William Bourke Cockran,		1927	Margaret Anglin,	1954	Jefferson Caffery,
	orator			actress		diplomat
1902	John Benjamin Murphy,		1928	John Johnson Spaulding,	1955	George Meany,
	surgeon	!		lawyer		labor leader
1903	Charles Jerome Bonaparte,		1929	Alfred Emmanuel Smith,	1956	General Alfred M.
	lawyer	1		statesman		Gruenther, soldier
1904	Richard C. Kerens,	i	1930	Frederick Philip Kenkel,	1957	Clare Boothe Luce,
	diplomat			publicist		diplomat
1905	Thomas B. Fitzpatrick,		1931	James J. Phelan,	1958	Frank M. Folsom,
	philanthropist			businessman		industrialist
1906	Francis J. Quinlan,		1932	Stephen J. Maher,	1959	Robert D. Murphy,
	physician			physician		diplomat
1907	Katherine Eleanor Conway,		1933	John McCormack,	1960	George N. Shuster,
	journalist and author			artist		educator
1908	James G. Monaghan,		1934	Genevieve Garvan Brady,	1961	John F. Kennedy,
	economist			philanthropist		President of the United States
R
s
9
%
I
£
5*
^Ijgeralef
United
■iBIII


IIML



vv
<4 >*
<=»C_ogic dictated the Honorable John Fitzgerald Kennedy
as the seventy-ninth recipient of the Laetare Medal awarded
annually by the University of Notre Dame to an outstanding
American Catholic layman. The nation’s First Citizen personi-
fies the ascendancy of Catholic leadership, and has put forever
to rest for all Catholics the fallacy of political discrimination.
In an era marked by a questioning of an adequate Cath-
olic leadership, the President adds both lustre and focus to
a distinguished company of Catholic soldiers, statesmen, and
artists; to industrialists, diplomats, and philanthropists, who
have worn the Laetare Medal through the years — men and
women whose genius has ennobled the arts and sciences,
illustrated the ideals of the Church, and enriched the heritage
of humanity.
But all of this objective intellectual inevitability of the
1961 nomination and award is only a part of the story of
this year’s Laetare Medal. Its roots spread from the mind
of Notre Dame to its heart, where three generations of
the President’s family are enshrined in the history of the
University.
continued
3 generations CiteeL

HON. JOHN F. FITZGERALD
Honorary Doctorate of Law
Commencement, 1915
continued
In 1915 the University of Notre Dame bestowed upon Hon. John
F. Fitzgerald, Boston, Massachusetts, an honorary Doctorate of Laws.
This was the 1961 Medalist’s grandfather.
In 1941, the University of Notre Dame awarded its honorary Doc-
torate of Laws to one of its Lay Trustees, Honorable Joseph P. Ken-
nedy. This was the 1961 Medalist’s father.
The Senior Class of the University of Notre Dame elected as its
Patriot of the Year in 1957 a member of the United States Senate,
and gave him the award in the traditional Washington’s Birthday exer-
cise on the campus. The Senator is the 1961 Laetare Medalist. This
honor was also given to a crusading young attorney on a similar occa-
sion in 1958 — the attorney was Hon. Robert F. Kennedy, now United
States Attorney General, the 1961 Laetare Medalist’s brother.
So the Laetare Medal is not to go really outside the Notre Dame
family in 1961, though a few months have elevated its recipient to
a post of unique and historical distinction, heretofore denied to any
Catholic layman in the long history of unlimited political opportunity
in the United States of America.
HON. JOSEPH P. KENNEDY
Honorary Doctorate of Law
Commencement, 1941
with Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.
President of the University
The story of the 1961 Laetare Medal is effectively told in the short
statement issued by the President of the University, Reverend Theodore
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.:
“The Laetare Medal has traditionally been regarded as the highest
University award to a Catholic layman in America. It has been con-
ferred annually since 1883 by the University of Notre Dame on a long
list of Catholic laymen and lay women who have distinguished them-
selves in their chosen profession and way of life.
“Among Laetare Medalists there have been distinguished generals,
like William Rosecrans, J. Lawton Collins and Alfred Gruenther; Ad-
mirals like William S. Benson, Chief of Naval operations; jurists like
Edward Douglas White, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court; authors
like Maurice Francis Egan, Agnes Repplier, Helen White and Carleton
Hayes; artist”, like actress Irene Dunne and singer John McCormack;
diplomats like Robert Murphy and Clare Boothe Luce. There have
also been those who have distinguished themselves in public life, like
Alfred E. Smith and Frank C. Walker.
“The Laetare Medal for 1961 is awarded to the new President
of the United States, the Honorable John F. Kennedy. There is no
question that in a most unusual way, at a most unusual age, and against
unusually long odds, he has risen to the top of his profession. He stands
there today as a kind of landmark for the place of young men in our
times, as a symbol of the new energy, vision and dedicated service of
youth to the public welfare. These qualities were born and tempered
in the fires of global war, but are dedicated today in the highest sense
-JkM.
CONGRESSMAN JOHN F. KENNEDY
Honorary Doctorate of Laws
January Commencement, 1950
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
center^ President of the University
♦’ *	• **	V • ,	— —	*
to a new order of peace with justice and to the burgeoning hope of
a better life for men everywhere.
“Because of what he has accomplished in so few years, because of
his unique position in the long list of distinguished American Catholic
laymen, and because of the sincere hope placed in his vision, energy
and dedication by so many Americans of all races and faiths, the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame is pleased to confer this year upon John F.
Kennedy, the highest honor within her power to bestow: The Laetare
Medal.”
The Medalist, in 1957, when accepting the Notre Dame Senior Class
Patriot of the Year Award, spoke of the value of dedication to public
service by young men:
“This is a great university, the University of Notre Dame. Its
establishment and continued functioning, like that of all great univer-
sities, has required considerable effort and expenditure. I cannot be-
lieve that all of this was undertaken merely to give the school’s grad-
uates an economic advantage in the life struggle. ‘A university,’ said
Professor Woodrow Wilson, ‘should be an organ of memory for the
state for the transmission of its best traditions. Every man sent out
from a university should be a man of his nation, as well as a man of
his time.’
“I do not say that our political and public life should be turned
over to college-trained experts who ignore public opinion. Nor would
I adopt from the Belgian Constitution of 1893 the provision giving
three votes instead of one to college graduates. Nor would I give Notre
Dame a seat in the Congress as William and Mary was once represented
in the Virginia House of Burgesses.
“But I do urge the application of your talents to the public solu-
tion of the great problems of our time — and I urge you to act with
the same steadfastness and courage that characterized an unhappy but
determined politician named George Washington just 161 years ago
tonight, who was willing to oppose the people in order to save the
people. Bear in mind, as you leave this university and consider the
road ahead, not the sneers of the cynics or the fears of the purists,
for whom politics will never be an attraction — but bear in mind
instead these words which are inscribed behind the Speaker’s desk
high on the Chamber Wall of the United States House of Repre-
sentatives, inscribed for all to remember, these words of the most
famous statesman Massachusetts ever sent to the Halls of Congress,
Senator Daniel Webster:
‘Let us develop the resources of our land,
call forth its power, build up its institu-
tions, promote all its great interests and
see whether we also, in our day and
generation, may not perform something
worthy to be remembered.’ ”
—James E. Armstrong
SENATOR JOHN F. KENNEDY ’
Recipient of Patriotism Award
of Senior Class, Washington Day =
Exercises, 1957
HON. ROBERT F. KENNEDY '
Presented the Patriotism
Award of Senior Class,
Washington Day Exercises, 1958,
with Rev. Edmund P: Joyce, C.S.C.
Executive Vice-President
by KATE DOOLEY
•f
The Golden Dome with the statue of Our Lady is
more than a landmark. It is a symbol of the hopes of the
founder of the University and all who carry on his work
in the accomplishment of his inspired dreams. It stands
for the cherished memories of thousands of alumni, and
for the tremulous expectations of incoming freshmen.
Brilliant in gold, it lifts the spirit of everyone to whom
this Dome and Our Lady mean Notre Dame.
The periodic regilding of the Dome is now under way
for the eighth time in nearly 80 years, and will be finished
before classes convene in September. It was last reno-
vated in 1948 at a cost of $20,000. The present work will
cost about $50,000, but use of an improved base metal
should lengthen the life of regilding to fifteen or twenty
years, according to Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, C.S.G., Vice
President for Business Affairs.
The present renovation, the most extensive ever done,
will begin with removal of the tarnished gold leaf and
o	o
salvaging of the precious metal. The entire sheet metal
base will then be removed and replaced with monel metal,
a nickel-copper alloy that is heavier, stronger, and more
corrosion-resistant.
The new metal base, and the work of repainting the
supporting structure of the Dome down to the fourth floor
of the Administration Building, will account for most of
the present cost. The 23-karat gold leaf will cost $7,000.
After the monel metal base is in place over the Dome’s
wooden frame, it is prepared with several compounds,
last of which is a sizing to which the gold leaf adheres.
Special tradesmen known as gilders apply the gold foil
which is but one ten-thousandth of an inch thick, and
comes in tissue paper-back rolls three-quarters of an inch
wide and 67 feet long. Each roll covers approximately 16
4
T'



square feet of the Dome’s 3,500 square feet of surface.
Father Edward Sorin spoke of the way he envisioned
the Dome just two years after he founded Notre Dame:
“When this school, Our Lady’s School, shall grow a bit
more, I shall raise her aloft so that, without asking, all
men shall know why we have succeeded here. To that
lovely Lady, raised high on a Dome, a Golden Dome,
men may look and find the answer.”
The first Dome built in 1865 was white, not gold. It
was destroyed in the disastrous fire of 1879. Rebuilding
of the college began immediately but the new Dome was
not finished until 1882 when it was crowned with the
present statue of brilliant gold.
The new statue was the gift of St. Mary’s college
students, executed by Signor Giovanni Meli of Chicago.
It is a replica of that erected by Pope Pius IX in the
Piazza di Spagna in Rome, to commemorate the pro-
mulgation of the dogma of the Immaculate Conception.
Made of cast iron, the statue is 19 feet high and
weighs more than two tons. Its heroic size is of such
proportion that a workman can sit in the outstretched
hand while regilding that portion of the statue. Hoisting
the statue to the top of the Dome became a problem
of which professional engineers despaired. Finally, an un-
known but not unsung Holy Gross Brother devised a
mathematical formula by which the feat was accom-
plished! The crest of the statue is 125 feet above the
roof of the Administration Building, and 206 feet from
the ground.
“Wonder what it’s like way up there,” is the thought
in the minds of gapers on the ground as they watch
workmen walking on the scaffolding or swinging in bosun
chairs. It is always cool, for one thing, according to a
contractor who has spent a good bit of time aloft.
Weather is the big and unpredictable problem. Rain
and high wind delay the work causing the fragile gold
leaf to blow about. An unexpected frost can create havoc,
preventing the leaf from adhering properly. But once
finished, the newly gilded Dome is an object of beauty.
Father Sorin could hardly have foreseen the mil-
lions of travelers who would glimpse this Dome from
the network of highways and Indiana Toll Road that
converge on this countryside; that the early planes would
use the Dome for directional bearing, and that thousands
of tourists would look for this landmark first when
visiting the campus each year. What was to the founder
just a prayerful hope has come true. Today the Golden
Dome of Notre Dame is known throughout the nation
and abroad.
The future will bring the addition of beautiful and
impressive buildings to the Notre Dame campus, but
not even the soaring tower of the new Memorial Library
will rise higher than the Golden Statue. It seems safe
to predict that none ever will. For it is always to the
Lady of the Golden Dome that her sons first raise their
eyes when returning to the University. It is this indelible
image Notre Dame men carry through life: vita, dulcedo,
spes — “our life, our sweetness, our hope.”*
* Motto on the base of Our Lady’s Statue.
Photo left, Regilding the Dome, 1948.
NOTRE DAME
VOL. 14, NO. 2, SUMMER, 1961
Published quarterly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame,
Indiana. Entered as second class matter May 10, 1928, at Post Office at
Notre Dame, Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.



mmmMkw
There are two objectives that
Catholic higher education must pursue
simultaneously today: to hold to the
permanent, unchanging values that
have made our higher learning some-
thing special; and to adapt to the
dynamic changing realities of our times
which need these unchanging values if
rapid change and explosive new reali-
ties are to have any dimension of mean-
ing and direction. In other words,
Catholic higher education must be
neither a dinosaur nor a changeling,
but a vital and vigorous force in our
times, both ancient and contemporary,
both conservative and radical, both
traditional and modern. Either value
to the exclusion of the other will either
date us on the one hand, or make us
shabbily imitative on the other. We
must cherish both values.
I have always shared the honest pride
that legitimately attaches to our proud
intellectual heritage. I have likewise
always been uneasy at the correlative
pattern of looking backward more often
than forward, of holding to the tradi-
tion of what has been, rather than
striving mightily to make the traditional
values more relevant, more vital, more
meaningful today. I have always been
chary of so many intellectual giants of
another day, often many centuries past,
while the crying need is for men and
women of equal wisdom and vision
today.
Personally, I have no ambition to be
a mediaeval man. I suspect that St.
Thomas in his day had no hankering to
be classified as belonging to the golden
age of the Latin Fathers of the Church,
then long past. Whatever the value
of the various ages of Catholic higher
learning, there is only one age whose
value we can in any measure influence:
our own. We can see ourselves as part
of a long tradition. We can measure
the vitality of our current contribution
against the intellectual contribution
of other ages, but one factor is ab-
solutely essential to any judgment or
any comparison: the vitality of Catholic
higher learning in any particular
age
must be viewed mainly in relation to
its intellectual influence and effective-
ness in that particular age.
It is futile comfort for a Catholic
university in the second half of the
Twentieth Century in the United States
of America to point with pride to the
lively intellectuality and critical vitality
of the Catholic University of Paris in
Mediaeval France. Let the dead bury
their dead. We of the living have our
work at hand. It is vital, intellectual,
and exciting work that only a university
can do. Perhaps the most exciting
feature of all is the valid presumption
that some of the work can most fruit-
fully be undertaken only by a Catholic
institution of higher learning in the
o	o
best tradition of the peak eras of
Christian wisdom.
If we are to create a peak for the
Catholic higher learning today, two
essential requirements at least are
crystal clear: One, we must understand
the present day world in which we live,
with all of the forces and realities that
make it what it is; and, two, those two
best and most unique assets we have,
philosophy and theology, must begin to
be more relevant to the agonizing, very
real, and monumental problems of our
times.
The key word for the task, as I see
it, is mediation. Catholic higher edu-
cation can, in our times, perform an
important mediatorial function. Cath-
olic higher education stands for some-
thing definite, definable, and, I trust,
something true, good, beautiful, and
timeless. The world is disjointed today
in so many ways, fragmented into so
many disparate parts, that one might
look far to find a more inspiring, more
important, or more central task for the
Catholic higher learning than the
exalted work of mediation in our times.

Advance of
Excellence
Dr. Frederick D. Rossini
Dean of the College of Science
Administrative Units Formed
Humanistic Studies Advanced
We have grown to a point, as a University, where our growth,
must be ordered and organic. At the same time, emphasis
should always be upon stimulating and facilitating growth that is
vital to the total mission of the University, which is to push for-
ward the field of knowledge in a vital and productive way, and to
transmit to the students at the University the wisdom, knowledge
and understanding that is our proud heritage.
— Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.
The formation, of two important new administrative
units, and the assignment of working capital for
humanistic research at the University have been an-
nounced by the President of the University.
Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, Dean of the College of
Science, was appointed chairman of the newly established
University Research Council, and Rev. Chester A. Soleta,
C.S.C., Vice President for Academic Affairs, was named
to head a committee of Deans which will study and ap-
prove all sponsored educational and research programs
and meetings at the University. These two administrative
units will, Father Hesburgh believes, “be of greatest profit
to the present and future growth of this University.”
Purpose of Research Council
The Research Council was formed to advise the
President on research policy, and to oversee the admin-
istration of sponsored research. It will become operative
on July 1, and will consist of members serving ex-officio,
and members appointed from the faculty for terms of
three years.
8 NOTRE DAME
The ex-officio members, in addition to Dr. Rossini, will
include Mr. F. X. Bradley, Jr., who has been named the
Executive Officer of the Council with the title of Research
Administrator for the University. The others will be:
Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., Vice President for Aca-
demic Affairs; Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, C.S.C., Vice
President for Business Affairs; Rev. Paul E. Beichner,
C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School; and Dr. Norman
R. Gay, Dean of the College of Engineering.
The appointed members will be: Dr. Milton Burton
of the Department of Chemistry, Dr. Ralph E. Thorson
of the Department of Biology, and Dr. Francis M.
Kobayashi of the Department of Engineering Science.
They will serve for terms of one, two and three years
respectively in order to make rotation possible in the
future.
Whenever the scope of sponsored research in any Col-
lege or School, not presently represented on the Council,
warrants it, the President may add the Dean of such Col-
lege or School to membership on the Council, also to
serve ex-officio.
Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C.
Dr. George N. Shuster
Vice President for Academic Affairs
Assistant to the President
Second Administrative Unit	'
The second administrative unit, headed by Father
Soleta, was formed to review and act on the growing
number of requests for meetings at Notre Dame. In the
future, all proposals for sponsored educational programs,
conferences, symposia and similar meetings will be pre-
sented to this committee, which will include the Deans
of all the Colleges,
o
In addition to Dr. Rossini and Dr. Gay they are:
Mr. Joseph O’Meara, Jr., Dean of the Law School; Rev.
Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Arts
and Letters; and Dr. James W. Culliton, Dean of the
College of Commerce. The group will be augmented by
Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, C.S.C., Vice President for Busi-
ness Affairs, and Rev. Joseph S. McGrath, C.S.G., Di-
rector of the Summer Session, who will serve as its Execu-
tive Secretary.
The duties of this committee will be to formulate a
set of procedures to be used in considering proposals for
sponsored programs and meetings, to determine whether
such proposals are feasible, and whether or not they fit
into the instructional objectives of the University.
Great Increase of Awards
“Sponsored research is now a substantial part of Notre
Dame, as it is of every other important university in
the country,” Father Hesburgh pointed out. “It can have
serious repercussions in other areas of the University, the
fiscal, the administrative and the instructional.”
The increase in awards to Notre Dame for research
and educational programs during the past ten years has
been impressive. In 1949-50, these amounted to $250,000.
Ten years later, the University was awarded $3,081,600
for 98 separate projects. The indications are that Notre
Dame will continue to receive substantial increases in
support of research.
An indication of this national upward curve, partic-
ularly in the sciences and engineering, is evident in grants
of the National Science Foundation. In 1953, this federal
agency supported research grants amounting to a total of
$1,813,000. By 1960, this support had mounted to
$57,213,000.
Problems of Growth
The gratifying growth and development at Notre
Dame of research sponsored by the government, by the
various foundations and by business and industry have
brought also an increasing number of problems to which
the University Research Council will address itself. Father
Hesburgh has spelled out some fundamental principles:
1.	Research must always be kept in ordered relation
with the teaching purposes of the University.
2.	The future consequences of various research pro-
posals must be anticipated so that they do not grow too
large and unmanageable for the University’s staff after
a few years.
3.	As much as possible, research throughout the Uni-
versity must be encouraged to grow on some organic
basis so that all of the spheres of knowledge are adequately
represented.
4.	Grants which are accepted must be consonant with
sound fiscal policies and practices.
5.	The freedom of the individual investigator to select
his problem and study it in a proper academic atmosphere
must be protected.
Importance of Humanistic Studies
Father Hesburgh pointed out the desirability of seeking
additional support for research in law, social sciences, art
and the humanities in order to achieve a balance with
present sponsored research which is more than 90%
dedicated to the sciences and engineering.
Toward this purpose, Dr. George N. Shuster, Assistant
to the President, has been assigned a part of the initial
grant made by the Ford Foundation as working capital
to coordinate plans for research on the problems of man
in contemporary society. Impressive work in this area
has already been done at Notre Dame, and now the Ford
Foundation has supplied a portion of the substantial
financing necessary to proceed on a broader basis.
A vast number of foundations are multiplying every
year to support humanistic research as well as research
in the sciences and engineering. For example, the Nation-
al Science Foundation has just established a Division
for Social Science Research that will soon operate on a
level of about $8,000,000 annually.
The program headed by Dr. Shuster is meant in no
way to preclude a faculty member from working on his
own research concerned with the same questions. A large
part of research in the arts and humanities is done by
individuals working alone.
“We hope that more understanding and generous
patrons arise for this essential kind of humanistic re-
search,” said Father Hesburgh. “At any rate, in the years
to come the University must try seriously, in every way
possible, to increase the support of the social sciences,
law, the arts and the humanities.”
9
by
Reverend
James J. Maguire, Ph.D.
Assistant Professor of Theology
Father Maguire relaxing in his study at Notre Dame
n this age of dialogue Masses and evening Masses it is
hard to realize that a scant twenty-five years ago the Litur-
gical Movement was generally regarded as a faddish and
possibly dangerous innovation. Nowadays the idea of
popular participation seems so natural and so urgently
needed, that one wonders why there had to be so many
articles and speeches defining and defending the whole
idea of liturgical activity. But twenty-five years from now
a similar wonder may perhaps be expressed at our current
haggling about the notion of ecumenical activity.
The truth of the matter is that a Christian can hardly
be anything but ecumenically minded. “Ecumenical” is
derived from a Greek root meaning world wide in extent
and influence. In this basic sense the original charter of
ecumenical activity is Christ’s command to make disciples
of all nations. In the more immediate sense, however,
ecumenism refers to zeal and work for the cause of Chris-
tian unity. This zeal is something more special and more
poignant than the general missionary zeal basic to the
Chrisitan spirit. It should never be easy for the Christian
to live with the realization that there are countless mil-
lions who “know not Christ”: but it should be actually
soul-searing to realize that there are other millions who
acknowledge one Lord and one Baptism, but who share
neither a common faith nor a common table.
And the devastating thing is that this lack of Christian
unity cannot simply be attributed to bad faith. Chris-
tians are separated and have remained separated for
centuries not because they are lax, indifferent and con-
sciously disloyal to Christ, but precisely because they are
endeavoring to remain loyal to Christ.
There is no question here merely of individual Chris-
tians who have isolated themselves from the Christian
community. What we have are large organized bodies
of Christians with centuries of history and tradition behind
them. “All aberrations are founded on,” wrote Cardinal
Newman, “and have their life in, some truth or other —
and Protestantism, so widely spread and so long enduring,
must have in it and must be witness for, a great truth or
much truth. It could never be,” he says, “that so large
a portion of Christendom should have split off from the
communion of Rome and kept up a protest for three hun-
dred years for nothing.”
The basic premise of ecumenism is, therefore, that
there is something to talk about. That is why ecumenical
activity is so often — and rightfully — called “dialogue.”
And dialogue it should be noted is something more than
just instruction or even argument. When we instruct and
when we argue we do not really listen: we use the interval
when the other person speaks as a time for formulating
our own next remark. There is a world of difference
between genuine dialogue and the kind of parallel mono-
logue in which children so frequently engage. To agree
to engage in dialogue is to admit the possibility that we
have something important to learn. If we do not care to
admit this possibility, it is seriously misleading to use the
word “dialogue” as freely as it is used today.
All of this seems to suggest that ecumenical activity
properly speaking is the business of specialists. This sup-
position is entirely correct, however undemocratic it may
sound. In a recent symposium in America Dr. William
Lee Miller, consultant to the Fund for the Republic, ex-
pressed his misgivings about the fact that the dialogue so
far had been carried on “by religious professionals and
10
NOTRE DAME
intellectuals without reaching very deeply into the lay
communities.” Undoubtedly there are many who share
this sentiment. Americans generally have an almost over-
weening faith in conference tables and the therapeutic
value of “getting to know the other fellow.” Yet, as we
are sadly beginning to realize, there are difficulties and
problems that cannot be dissolved by the broad smile and
the hearty handshake. But though there can be no doubt
that “intellectual ecumenism” does presuppose a broad
grass-roots base of practical charity, understanding and
spiritual good-will, confusion of the two levels could con-
ceivably cheapen and confuse the whole notion of ecu-
menical dialogue itself.
If
-<Jn the last analysis the ecumenical problem is a doc-
trinal one, the problem of “faith and order” and not
merely of “life and work.” The experience of European
Protestantism in this regard is very illuminating. Under
the influence of Swedish Lutheran Archbishop Soder-
bloom, Continental Protestantism in the Twenties sought
to solve its own intra-mural ecumenical problem by by-
passing theological problems in the “Life and Work Move-
ment.” In the Thirties this approach was abandoned and
the movement was finally merged in the “faith and order”
emphasis of the World Council of Churches. In all such
“practical,” grass-roots approaches there is the ever-
present danger of reductionism, of relegating dogma to a
position of secondary importance, and reducing Christi-
anity to the least common-denominator platform of the
ethical teaching contained in the Sermon on the Mount.
It was undoubtedly this kind of ecumenical approach that
Pius XI had in mind when he issued his 1928 directives
against Catholic ecumenical participation.
The prevalent danger here in America is even less
subtle. This is the danger of losing the very meaning of
ecumenism itself. Father Avery Dulles, S.J., put his
finger on it (in the America symposium) when he declared
that “Protestants, Catholics and Orthodox have not con-
fronted each other as believers in the same Lord but
merely as fellow citizens of the same republic.” Con-
frontation and charitable cooperation in common civic
concerns are of course large and wonderful forward steps.
Yet when Protestants and Catholics work together on
matters of urban rehabilitation or remedies for juvenile
delinquency, they are still a long way from ecumenical
dialogue.
The sad and final revelation, however, is that even at
the professional and intellectual level we are still a long
way from ecumenical interchange. This may seem like
an odd observation in view of the perfect spate of articles
and books addressed to this topic, of the veritable deluge
of inter-faith symposia and carefully unpublicized con-
ferences. Most of the exchange even at a supposedly high
theological level is of a groping adolescent sort. Attend-
ing such conferences, one is inevitably reminded of Saint
Exupery’s description of “liberal fraternity,” that of a
group of porcupines of endless good will but with their
quills still stuck out. And even when the quills are not
so apparent, the general impression is still that of parallel
monologues, as preliminary as first day conversation in a
new school. According to Professor Lindbeck of Yale
University, typical attempts at dialogue simply “give
evidence of America’s theological backwardness.” In-
terestingly enough this devastating verdict emerges in his
review (Saturday Review, March 4, 1961, p. 24) of “An
American Dialogue” by Robert McAfee Brown and Gus-
tave Weigel, S.J. — two of the men commonly regarded
as the giants of American Ecumenical effort.
Yet though this book is a breakthrough, it also gives
evidence of America’s theological backwardness. The
point here reached was already passed more than
thirty years ago in France, Germany and the Low
Countries. Weigel’s version of cool Thomistic in-
tellectualism is not popular there, and so the Eu-
ropean conversation with Protestants is carried on in
more existentialist and Biblical terms. Both sides find
themselves uncomfortably challenged and forced to
a creative rethinking of their fundamental positions
on man and sin, grace and the church. Brown and
Weigel, engrossing though they are, represent an
introductory stage of the discussion in which the
emphasis is more on the exchange of information
than on real debate.
^Nevertheless, recognition of our theological backward-
ness may point the way to the real breakthrough in ecu-
menical activity. If America is theologically backward,
the prime factor is surely the fact that there has been
little public market or grass-roots demand for genuine
theology. When the common man becomes aware of the
tragic dimensions of the ecumenical problem, theologians
will be raised up (by Providence operating through the
law of supply and demand) to answer his questions about
the riddle of divided Christianity. Right now the
common man’s prime contribution to ecumenical effort
will be to bring himself and others to the genuine realiza-
tion that divided Christianity is a tragically ironic thing,
to the realization that civic cooperation and suburban
pemutlichkeit, however desirable are no substitute for the
unity in communion and fellowship for all those who
acknowledge the same Lord and the same Baptism.
11
COLLEGE -
a boy's dreamworld!
a father's nightmare**
STUDENT AID may be the answer
THE cost of college education today can be a finan-
cial problem, especially for the father of a large
family. This problem is being helped, and in many in-
stances resolved, by student aid provided at Notre Dame.
Just a few years ago, a third of the country’s high-
school graduates in the top 30 per cent of their class
did not go to college for financial reasons. Mindful of
this restriction on deserving boys, and to save the loss
of this potential brain power to the nation, Notre Dame
has striven through the years to help superior students in
financial need to attain higher education. It is for this
very reason that Notre Dame is appealing for two million
dollars to enlarge its program of Student Aid in the
current drive which the Ford Foundation is matching
fifty-cents on the dollar.
The experts in the departments of Student Aid at
Notre Dame tell you here what they can do to help
realize a boy’s dream, and save his father sleepless nights
— through financial assistance of scholarships, loans and
student employment — providing, of course, the boy is
a superior student in actual need.
freshman scholarships
BY REV. ROMAN S. LADEWSKI, C.S.C.
Assistant Director of Admissions and Scholarships
Notre Dame will lose 140 incoming freshmen of
superior quality this year for lack of adequate scholar-
ship funds. Of the total number (675) applying for
academic scholarships, 260 were declared superior by
the Scholarship Committee. Using
percentages of other years it is pos-
sible to project figures about this
group of 260: 100 will enter Notre
Dame through “outside” scholarships,
through the 35 University scholar-
ships, or by making other financial
arrangements; an additional 20 will
come on Honorary scholarships
awarded to applicants who are aca-
demically qualified but who have no
actual financial need. This leaves 140. If sufficient
funds were available, the names of these 140 would ap-
pear in 1965 among those graduating from Notre Dame
in the upper third of the class. Actually they will not
arrive on campus this fall because they received a sad
notice from our Committee stating, “Since our funds are
exhausted we regret to inform you that we cannot fill
your request for scholarship aid.”
At Notre Dame scholarships are awarded not as
prizes or rewards for outstanding performance in high
school but as financial aids to superior students in actual
need. In practice when assigning scholarships the Com-
mittee answers the question of who gets a scholarship by
judging the applicant’s anticipated performance as a
student and as a person. That anticipated performance
must be not merely average but definitely superior ac-
cording to Notre Dame standards.
Consequently, the Committee gives careful attention
to the applicant’s high school record, to his College
Board’s Test results, and to the recommendations from
his high school. Personal contact is made if pos-
sible by the Director of Scholarships or by a designated
Notre Dame alumnus. The Committee further looks be-
yond the benefit of college education to the individual
recipient and awards the scholarship to a student who
has, at heart, not only his personal interests and career,
but who has in mind to contribute of his talents to the
welfare of the community. The Committee, therefore,
looks for evidence of this interest in others.
After the awardees are selected the amount each will
receive is determined by his individual need as a stu-
dent at Notre Dame. This is done with the help of the
College Scholarship Service of Princeton, New Jersey,
an impartial organization set up for this very purpose. If
the awardee is found to have no need he is given an
Honorary scholarship without stipend.
Consequently, it is not the student whose need is
greatest who is selected first, nor is it the student with
the best intelligence who will receive the highest stipend.
Anticipated academic and personal excellence determines
who is to receive a scholarship; individual need deter-
mines the amount that he is awarded.
Incidentally, parents and applicants are warned to
keep in mind that according to College Scholarship
Service principles the contribution towards college ex-
penses which is expected of parents will be the same no
matter which school the scholarship holder attends. But
the amount given in scholarships by a particular school
will vary with the expenses at that school. Hence, for
example, a $400 scholarship at Notre Dame where tui-
tion amounts to $1,100 is of the same value as a $1,000
scholarship at a school where tuition amounts to $1,700.
12
NOTRE DAME
Actual computation of the financial need of these 140
Notre Dame freshman “ghosts” reveals that the com-
mittee would need the following scholarships:
21 stipends of $1800
47 stipends of $1400
39 stipends of $1000
21 stipends of $ 600
12 stipends of $ 300
The total amounts to $158,800. This is the immediate
need, but since it represents only one year, while the
students will require assistance for four years, the actual
fund should be more than half a million dollars.
This is a grave challenge, but the situation will not
improve. The number of superior students applying for
scholarships this year increased by 30%. If this trend
continues, Notre Dame may next year expect as many
as 175 genius “ghosts” — unless by the magic of gen-
erous benefactors they are made to appear as actual
realities in the halls and classrooms within the shadow
of the Golden Dome.
loans
BY REV. PAUL G. WENDEL. C.S.C.
Director of Student Aid
Many students and their parents already have in-
dicated that they like the idea of financing education the
way they finance such things as automobiles, homes and
household appliances. This may be a possibility for
alumni of Our Lady’s University who would like to send
their son to their Alma Mater but cannot because of lack
of funds. The idea of installment financing of a college
education is catching on with a bang. The idea: Go to
college now and pay later. . . . College on the Cuff.
Borrowing for higher education in the United States has
grown from 13 million dollars in 1956 to 230 million
dollars in 1960.
A variety of loan plans is offered. The borrowing can
be done by the student, or by the parents. Interest rates
are generally low and wide latitude is allowed in the
time for repayment. Some of the types of loans that are
available are from banks or non-educational lending
agencies, from a state agency or from the Federal gov-
ernment through the University.
Banks have done much to swell the lending boom.
They have set up systems of installment financing under
which a parent contracts to pay a fixed amount monthly
to the bank. The bank meets all the college bills when
they become due — up to an agreed amount. Install-
ment-payment programs are also financed by loan com-
panies whose interest rates range from 4 per cent for a
one-year plan to 6 per cent for a four-year plan.
In some States, bank loans are encouraged by agen-
cies chartered by the State government. These agencies
guarantee all or most of a loan that a bank makes to
a student. Maine, Massachusetts and New York are
among the pioneers in this form of aid to higher edu-
cation. In a few other States, such as Wisconsin and
North Dakota, loans to students are made from State
funds at low rates of interest. Indiana has a Higher
Education Loan Plan which assists in raising money to
use in protecting Indiana banks against losses on loans
to Indiana students.
The biggest boost to college lending has come from
the Federal Government through the National Defense
Education Act of 1958. As it was designated, Public
Law 84-864 provides for the creation, at American col-
leges and universities, of loan funds from which needy
undergraduate and graduate students may borrow on
reasonable terms for the pm pose of completing their
higher education. Congress is aware especially of the
critical shortages which now exist and are likely to in-
crease in several professional fields closely related to our
national security. Therefore, higher educational institu-
tions are to use part of the National Defense Student
Loans to accelerate the enrollment in colleges of such
superior secondary school graduates who express a de-
sire to teach in elementary and secondary schools or
who indicate a superior capacity or preparation in
science, mathematics, engineering or a modern foreign
language, and would be unable to continue their studies
because of financial consideration.
Students at the University of Notre Dame made wide
use of this program in the 1959-1960 and during the
present school year. These loans varied in amounts from
$100.00 to $1,000.00. The big advantage of these loans
is that they are essentially long-term loans, and that
interest does not begin to accrue on them, nor does the
repayment period begin until one year after the person
has ceased to be a full-time student, and then a per-
son has up to ten years additional time in which to
pay them off.
The money for this loan fund is contributed 9/10’s
by the Government and 1/1 Oth by the University. To
be eligible for a loan a student must be a United States
National (a citizen or a permanent resident) and a full-
time student in an institution of higher education such
as the University of Notre Dame.
The following are the general provisions:
1.	A student may borrow up to $1,000.00 in any
year, with a maximum limit of $5,000.00 for
any one student over his entire academic
career.
2.	Repayments may be made over a ten-year
period, beginning one year after the person
ceases to be a full-time student.
3.	Interest begins to accrue at the rate of 3%
per year at the same time as the repayment
period begins.
4.	Military service postpones the repayment and
13
interest charge for the period during which the
person is actually engaged in full-time military
service. There is a maximum limit on this,
however, of three years.
5.	Death or permanent disability cancels the
debts.
6.	Those who teach in a public elementary or
high school for a period of five years have one-
half of the debt cancelled. (This is prorated
10% per year for each of the five years.)
There is a special committee at the University which
reviews all applications for these loans and makes the
final decision according to whether he is in one of the
preferred categories as set up by the National Defense
Education Act loan program (teaching, modern foreign
language, mathematics, science, engineering, etc.). While
the law stipulates that a student may borrow in one year
a sum not exceeding $1,000.00, the actual amount avail-
able to each borrower will depend upon the total amount
the University receives from the Government and the
number of qualified borrowers. Usually the Loan Com-
mittee is forced to limit the amount of the loan to in-
dividual students.
Alumni and prospective students interested in know-
ing more about the Notre Dame-National Defense Stu-
dent Loan Program should write the Director of Stu-
dent Aid, Notre Dame, Indiana.
student employment
FRED E. FREEMAN
Personnel Assistant
JOHN CACKLEY RESIGNS ASSISTANT
DIRECTOR FOUNDATION FOR NEW POST
John N. Cackley, Jr., resigned his position as as-
sistant director of the Notre Dame Foundation
and editor of Notre Dame magazine on March 1
to become Director of De-
velopment at Fairleigh Dickin-
son University, Rutherford,
New Jersey. Mr. Cackley had
been a member of the execu-
tive fund-raising staff of the
Foundation for 14 years, since
its establishment in 1947. He
had helped to found the quar-
terly Notre Dame, serving as
managing editor, and had been
, ,	T editor-in-chief for the past
John N. Cackley, Jr.
Following his graduation from Notre Dame in
1937, Mr. Cackley was associated with the General
Motors Corporation, represented the United States
government in Marseilles, France, as vice-consul,
and was with the Treasury Department’s Savings
Bonds Division as its Deputy Director in West
Virginia. He is a veteran of World War II, whose
tour of duty with the U. S. Army included assign-
ments in Africa, Italy and France. His wife and
eight children joined him in Rutherford at the
completion of the school year this June.
Notre Dame and his many friends join in wish-
ing Mr. Cackley every success in his new and im-
portant assignment.
The tradition of helping students to finance their
education through part-time employment is as old as
Notre Dame itself. Approximately one out of five stu-
dents is employed by the University for an average of
12 hours a week. Earnings vary with job requirements
and time involved but the average is $180 a semester
or $360 the academic year.
Student aid is now regarded as help for superior
students in need of -financial aid. Jobs cannot be offered
to those who wish only additional spending money, but
normally the University can assign work to all who ful-
fill the requirements. Students are considered for em-
ployment on the basis of financial need, skill, academic
standing and disciplinary record.
Eighty-three departments utilize the services of stu-
dents in 48 classifications of work ranging from student
supervisor in the North Dining Hall to animal caretaker
at Lobund. The greatest number, 721, work as clerks,
technicians and student assistants. The dining hall service
employs 173 students as bus boys, dishwashers and counter
attendants.
Ninety students work in the laundry, as swimming
pool attendants, life guards at the lake, student watch-
men and custodians. Others are employed as laboratory
technicians, mimeograph and photo-stat operators, sports
managers and photographers.
Some jobs give specific experience or training for the
student’s future career. All of them help him to learn
some practical work habits and good use of time. And
the very fact that he is working for part of his edu-
cation is looked on with favor by prospective employers
as an indication of initiative, self-reliance and maturity.
The immediate benefit of part-time employment is ob-
vious — it lifts a part of the financial burden of higher
education from the student’s parents.
Student employment has been provided since the Univer-
sity was founded. In 1845, Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C.,
founder of Notre Dame, wrote that, “In order to extend
to every individual of good will the invaluable benefit
of a sound and complete education, the University will
allow young men, unable to do otherwise, to pay for
their schooling with their own labor.” Though the cost
of education today does not permit a student to employ
himself to the extent of working his way through college
without scholastic impairment, the part-time employment
helps to defray a portion of his expenses.	A
14 NOTRE DAME
Notre Dame Man-1961
being the product of the age, he is
best conditioned to cope with this age
by JEROME PARKER
AS NOTRE DAME completes its one-hundred-nine-
teenth academic year, time steps aside that one may
survey the extent and intent of this enterprise called a
university — a way of life dedicated to the spiritual and
intellectual refinement of one’s God-given talents that
endow man with the dignity of an individual and prepares
him for specific purpose.
This campus complex of a thousand acres peopled by a
faculty of nearly five hundred and a student body ex-
ceeding six thousand, the ageless sacrifice of priests and
religious is — a great dynamo of human energy designed
to generate intellectual light and spiritual insight.
From this complex emerge in this year nineteen-hun-
dred-sixty-one, 1,182 graduating seniors. Their work at
Notre Dame is completed, their formal education is
history. As this academic year grinds to a halt, what is
the purpose of all this dedication and human effort?
It is the end product — the Notre Dame Man - 1961,
the man of today.
Who and what is this man? Has the student changed?
Has the University changed? The best answer is that
the whole social and economic pattern of the world has
changed, and the student of today reflects the condition-
ing environment of life in 1961. The University adjusts
to requirements and demands of the time. Notre Dame
is no longer just the sylvan glen of casual walks around
the lake where the disciplined student seeks simple
pleasure in simple things as life and mind mature in
a normal world. Military uniforms color the campus of
today. Wars, the jet and space age have left their scar
and robbed the student of carefree youth of yesteryear.
By a strange paradox of time, he knows no comparison
— he embraces his fate.
The student today reflects a world he did not create
but into which he has been thrust. The student of to-
day is only different to the degree that the world in
which he lives is different. He cannot be judged by fixed
standards. Being the product of the age, he is best con-
ditioned to cope with this age.
Of the more than eleven hundred graduates, the fol-
lowing forty seniors of the Glass of 1961 have been se-
lected by then? respective colleges and administrative de-
partments of the University as highly representative men
in the best educational traditions of the University for
academic achievement, Christian principle, and active
participation in university activity. This number could
be many more, but the primary purpose here is to ex-
emplify the Notre Dame Man.
It is not intended that the selection of these men is
to say these are the best. No one can determine this for
the long road of life, and for this reason their academic
record is omitted. But by the yardstick at hand at the
conclusion of their collegiate life, these seniors measure
highly in the Notre Dame tradition of the educated
Christian man, prepared by specialized talents to take
their place among men in their world today.
Accordingly, ten men have been selected by each of
the four colleges of Arts and Letters, Commerce, Science,
and Engineering. The first five of each college are identi-
fied by photograph and their activities listed. For reasons
of space, the second five are fisted by name only. Equity
dictates that they be placed alphabetically in the two
categories.
All of these graduates are on the Deans’ List. All
the Dome Award winners are among them. The Dome
Award is the highest honor that can be conferred upon
an undergraduate by his fellow students, and is presented
annually to outstanding seniors who have contributed to
Notre Dame in the academic, extracurricular and sports
areas and possess high qualities of personal character.
By coincidence, all four Colleges of the University are
represented in the top four seniors of the Class of ’61.
All four men are maxima cum laude.
The graduates, in the following pages include the
Valedictorian, Class Orator, Breen Medalist for Oratory;
among them are participants from every aspect of uni-
versity activity: sports, music, student government, debate,
ad infinitum, that encompass the pageantry of collegiate
victory and victor.	Continued
The following men are in the second group submitted by their respective Colleges
Arts and Letters: JOHN C. CAHALAN, Wyandotte, Michigan;
LAWRENCE J. GALLIC, East Aurora, New York; JEROME
T. KRIEGSHAUSER, St. Louis, Missouri; ROBERT C. LUND,
New Rochelle, New York; CHARLES L. RIECK, Chicago,
Illinois.
College of Commerce: FRANK M. GEDDES, Tucson, Arizona;
ANDREW J. KOPKO, Hobart, Indiana; WILLIAM LEHR, Jr.,
Silver Springs, Maryland; RICHARD P. MILLER, Cleveland
Heights, Ohio; CHARLES F. SCHULER, Muskegon, Michigan.
College of Engineering: DANIEL F. LUECKE, Los Angeles,
Calif.; GEORGE L. NIEMEYER, Jr., Lake Forest, Illinois;
DAVID C. PETRE, East Aurora, New York; CHARLES J.
RAMSDEN, Beloit, Wisconsin; RONALD LEE SAMPSON,
Davenport, Iowa.
College of Science: PAUL GUY DEROSA, Angola, Indiana;
MICHAEL D. GADWELL, Detroit, Michigan; FRANCOIS
W. SEGUIN, Southbridge, Mass.; COLIN T. SUTHERLAND,
Detroit, Michigan; JAMES F. WIRTH, San Francisco, Calif.
15
Thomas E. Carroll
Garden City, New York
Arts and Letters
History
Continued
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS
THOMAS CARROLL is a man of unusual talents and circumstances. Entering Notre
Dame in February 1954 on a baseball scholarship, he was signed by the New York
Yankees the following year, played ball each spring and attended Notre Dame for seven
fall semesters in as many years, acquiring the full 124 credit hours and academic
excellence.
JOHN ENGLER is Valedictorian of the Class of 1961. Recipient of the Dome Award,
and president of the Wranglers campus discussion group, he was also associate editor
of the Juggler, member of the A.B. Advisory Council, and Bookmen. Mr. Engler is
winner of a Woodrow Wilson Fellowship for one year, and the Danforth Fellowship
for four years of graduate study which he will pursue following an extended study
tour of Europe.
John H. Engler
Tenafly, New Jeisey
Aits and Letteis
English
John P. Keegan
Kearny, New Jersey
Arts and Letters
General Program
Donald E. Ralph
Bethesda, Maryland
Arts and Letters
English
JOHN KEEGAN was President of the Student Body, represented Notre Dame at the
Peace Corps Conference, Washington, D. C., and was Chairman, U. S. National Students
Association. He received the Academic ROTC Honor Award for three years, and was
Lt. Colonel, Fourth Battle group Commander. His student government activity included
freshman president of Farley Hall, sophomore president, and student body secretary,
junior year.
FRANCIS McGRATH was president of the Arts and Letters Business Forum, and a
Distinguished Military Graduate, Army ROTG. He was a member of the Sorin Cadet
Club, the University Film Society, and Westchester Club.
DONALD RALPH a member of the Advisory Council of the College of Arts and Letters,
served on the Washington Day Exercises Committee on which occasion Vice-Admiral
Hyman G. Rickover was presented the 1961 Patriot of the Year Award. Mr. Ralph
co-captained this year’s All-America Tennis Team, and was president of the Washington-
Maryland-Virginia Geographical Club.
Francis G. McGrath
Scaisdale, New Yoik
Arts and Letteis
Economics
Lawrence T. Brekka
Tarrytown, New York
Aeronautical Engineering
Gregory A. Gehred
Fort Atkinson, Wise.
Chemical Engineering
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
MICHAEL AUSTIN, Orator of the Class of 1961 is first in the College of Engineering
graduates, and second in his Class. He received the Reverend Thomas A. Steiner Prize
for all around excellence as a student, and the Institute of Radio Engineers Student
Award. Mr. Austin was the recipient of the National Science Foundation, and the
Hughes Master’s Fellowship. He will study for his doctorate in electrical engineering at
Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
LAWRENCE BREKKA has been the recipient of the Notre Dame Club of New York
Scholarship for four years. He has been awarded a United States Naval Ordnance
Laboratory Scholarship at White Oak, Maryland for three months, and a teaching
assistantship for graduate studies in aeronautical engineering at Notre Dame where
he will study for his doctorate. A member of the Tau Beta Pi, Institute of Aerospace
Sciences, and American Rocket Society, Mr. Brekka’s objective is to work on the de-
velopment of manned re-entry vehicles.
ANTHONY CHESSICK, a Dome Award winner, and station manager of WSND, student
radio station, was active in Tau Beta Pi honorary engineering society. A platoon leader
in the NROTC, and winner of the Chicago Tribune Award for Navy performance, he
has assisted in the organization of the Notre Dame Peace Corps project. As a Navy
regular next year, he will work on the staff of Vice-Admiral G. Hyman Rickover’s Naval
Reactor Development Program.
GREGORY GEHRED has held scholarships from the University since his sophomore
year, a Universal Oil Products Scholarship, and was awarded grants in the National
Science Foundation program for undergraduate research. He was a member of Tau
Beta Pi, Chairman of Midwest Regional Convention of A.I.Ch.E. student chapters, and
on the senior staff of Technical Review. Mr. Gehred has been offered teaching assisfant-
ships at Northwestern, Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
He will take his graduate work at M.I.T.
JOHN WHITNEY, winner of the Breen Medal for Oratory, 1961, was president of
the Notre Dame Debate Team, participating in over two-hundred and fifty intercollegiate
debates and won over twenty speakers awards including Top Speaker, 1961 Notre Dame
Debate Tournament. A recipient of the Dome Award, Mr. Whitney was president of
Tau Kappa Alpha honorary debate fraternity on campus, and Blue Circle parlimentarian.
His National Science Foundation research fellowship and background as company com-
mander NROTC well qualifies him for a position on Vice-Admiral Rickover’s Naval
Reactor Development Program where he will serve his tour of duty.
Michael E. Austin
Weymouth, Mass.
Electrical Engineering
Anthony W. Chessick
North Arlington, N. J.
Engineering Science
John W. Whitney
Burbank, California
Chemical Engineering
16 NOTRE DAME
Michael C. Farrar
Wateibuiy, Connecticut
Commei ce—Accounting
COLLEGE OF COMMERCE
MICHAEL FARRAR was a chemistry major during his first two years and a member
of the American Chemical Society-Student Affiliates. Changing to commerce in his junior
year as an accounting major, he continued on the Dean’s List for his undergraduate
years. He played interhall and interclub basketball and softball, and served as an officer
of the Connecticut Club.
JOHN HYNDS was active in the Accounting Club, the Commerce Forum, and served
on the Student Senate subcommittee. He played intermural basketball, and bowled with
the Kampus Keglers.
John W. Hynds
Morris, Illinois
Commerce—Accounting
James F. Martin
Chicago, Illinois
Commerce—Accounting
JAMES MARTIN a member of the Accounting Club, tutored in accounting and sta-
tistics for three years. An officer of the Chicago Club, he competed in the Club’s
softball league, and bowled with the Kampus Keglers.
JOSEPH PICHLER was a member of the Commerce Forum, and the Blue Circle Honor
Society. A professor’s assistant for two years, Mr. Pichler worked through four years
of college and fourteen jobs, found time to play interhall sports and win the Hudson,
Walsh, Cavanaugh Scholarship, and the United States Rubber Company Scholarship.
He is the recipient of the graduate Woodrow Wilson Fellowship, and the Chicago
University Honor Scholarship.
Charles P. Sacher
Miami, Florida
Commei ce—A c counting
CHARLES SACHER, a varsity football player, led his Commerce class for which he
received the Hamilton Award. A Dome Award winner, he also received the Haskins
and Sells award for excellence in accounting. Mr. Sacher won numerous Army ROTC
awards including the Chicago Tribune Medal, twice, for scholastic achievement and
the Quartermaster’s Award for distinguished ROTC men given to ten cadets annually
on the basis of nation-wide competition. He has been awarded a full scholarship to the
Notre Dame Law School, and a teaching fellowship in the accounting department.
COLLEGE OF SCIENCE
DENNIS CANTWELL heads the senior graduates in the College of Science. He attended
Notre Dame on a four year scholarship from General Motors Corporation. Active in
the campus pre-medical organization, the Aesculapian Club, Mr. Cantwell was co-
chairman of the Club’s tour of Washington and St. Louis University Schools of Medi-
cine. He was Chairman of the Science Advisory Council, and a senator from the College
of Science.
Robert B. Burckel
Louisville, Kentucky
Science—Mathematics
ROBERT BURCKEL came to Notre Dame on a National Merit Scholarship sponsored
by International Business Machine Corp., and caught his stride in winning the Borden
Freshman Prize for highest academic standing, the Sophomore Mathematics Compe-
tition, and has been awarded the Woodrow Wilson and National Science Foundation
Predoctoral Fellowships A member of the William Lowell Putnam Mathematics Com-
petition which placed seventh among U. S. and Canadian universities, Mr. Burckel will
enter Yale Graduate School for mathematical research in topology.
RONALD HERM completed Notre Dame in just three years on a National Merit
Foundation Scholarship, and was graduated with honors as a junior — fifth in the
Class of ’61. Mr. Herm has been offered teaching assistantships at Harvard, Princeton,
Chicago, California, Illinois, and the California Institute of Technology. He was awarded
and accepted the National Science Foundation Fellowship to the University of California,
Berkeley, for graduate work in physical chemistry.
Joseph A. Pichler
St. Louis, Missouri
Commerce—Marketing
Dennis P. Cantwell
Saint Louis, Missouri
Science—Pie-Medical
Ronald R. Herm
Louisville, Kentucky
Scien ce—C h emistry
William J. O’Connell
Biooklyn, New Yoik
Science—Physics
WILLIAM O’CONNELL was offered five scholarships to attend Notre Dame and chose
the General Motors National Scholarship. He distinguished himself immediately in Fresh-
man and Sophomore Mathematics Competitions, and won the Notre Dame Beginning
Physics Achievement Award in 1958. He placed twice in the William Lowell Putnam
Mathematics Competition, and was awarded the National Science Foundation Fellow-
ship for doctorate study in theoretical physics in preparation for a career in basic re-
search. In addition to tutoring, he was active in the Physics Club, and Science Open
House.
JOHN WILSON is a National Science Foundation Fellowship award winner, and a
Distinguished Military Student in Army ROTC. He will use his fellowship to work
for a doctorate in biochemistry at the University of Illinois. Mr. Wilson won the Fresh-
man Chemistry Achievement Award, 1958, and was a member of the Knights of Columbus
and the Sorin Cadet Club.
John E. Wilson
Celina, Ohio
Science—C hemistry
17
SOVIET STRATEGY
and FREE WORLD DEFENSE
This is the last of two installments;
the first appeared in the Spring issue.
by GERHART NIEMEYER
The author is professor of political science at Notre
Dame and has been a member of the faculty since 1955.
The appeal to masses of people has been made chiefly
under the slogans of peace and disarmament, which
proved quite suitable for this operation in the Russian
revolution in 1917. National independence and eco-
nomic development are other mass appeals. The fear of
atomic destruction has been the main device by which
the Soviets have sought, with considerable success, to pro-
mote neutralism, that is, to move both masses of people
and national governments to indifference in the struggle.
The will and capacity of the governing elements of
the West has been attacked mostly through civil wars,
as, e.g., in Greece, Iran, China, the Philippines, Malaya,
Vietnam, Algeria, etc. It would stand to reason that
the recent riots in Korea, Turkey, and Japan are another
phase of the same pattern. Another form of attack
against the capacity to rule is the fomentation of inter-
national tensions and quarrels in which the Western
will-to-power is challenged, as, e.g., in the Near-East
and Latin America. Each of these attacks aims, in a
different sense, at the wills of both ruling and ruled ele-
ments, with the objective of producing a process of dis-
integration resembling what the Communists call a “re-
volutionary situation.”
The occupation of key positions has been the least
successful part of Soviet strategy. The Soviet plan for
the reunification of Germany by means of a commission
composed of East and West German Government rep-
resentatives is obviously designed to deliver key positions
in a unified Germany into Communist hands. So have
been their attempts to obtain recognition for Communist
China and Communist Germany. Communist infiltra-
tion in front organizations as well as governments is, of
course, an old method.
Another method of indirect attack on free world
armed strength is to create the impression that the entire
conflict is over, in one way or another. With the cause
removed, the possession of masses of armaments in an
age of atomic weapons is then likely to be considered a
liability rather than an asset. Disarmament would become
the preferred policy and might be so eagerly sought that
unilateral disarmament and disengagement might appear
to some governments the supreme counsel of wisdom.
The impression that the conflict is over could be pro-
moted in one of several ways:
(a)	The free world might possibly be persuaded that
the changing balance of power has at one moment de-
finitely tipped in favor of the Soviet camp. Such an im-
pression could be promoted by means of spectacular feats
of military weaponry, as well as by economic statistics
coupled with displays of alleged productive power.
(b)	The free world might be convinced that the over-
whelming majority of the world’s population has de-
finitely embraced the Soviet order, so that the complete
communization of the world is only a matter of time.
(c)	The impression that the conflict is over could also
be created if the United States (or one or several of
the other key nations in the free world) should, by
establishing an understanding of friendship and agree-
ment with the Kremlin, signify to the world that the
days of resistance to the Soviets are past.
Ideological Levers
In all these strategies, the Soviets make use of a num-
ber of ideological levers with which they hope to pry
loose the power structure of the free world. These levers
can best be identified in terms of the concepts to which
they are attached:
(a)	Peaceful coexistence, as formulated by Khrush-
chev at the XX Party Congress. This includes the
ostentatious abandonment of the inevitability of war con-
cept, the doctrine of peaceful competition, the prospect
of the peaceful victory of socialism.
(b)	Imperialism, or the wickedness of the power of
the West. The rule of the West represents supposedly
exploitation, greed, selfishness, oppression, and war.
(c)	Socialism as the wave of the future. The mo-
mentum of history moves against the Western World
and favors both socialism and the colonial peoples.
(d)	The greater efficiency of the Socialist system.
Soviet Russia allegedly has made greater achievements
than any capitalist country, as attested by its supposedly
higher rate of economic growth and more advanced mili-
tary weapons.
(e)	Disarmament, as the key to enduring peace.
Permanent peace between nations is possible and de-
pends only on a universal disarmament pact.
Strategic Foreign Policies
In order to be able to influence and manipulate world
events with the help of these ideological levers, the
Soviet Union seeks to create, through its foreign policies,
repeated situations which favor the application of ideo-
logical leverage. The method can best be characterized
as push-and-pull, a violent rocking movement from peace
to war, tension to relaxation, accusation to conciliation,
with the intent of loosening the fabric of the Western
order on which the armed strength of the West depends.
This is achieved by repeated international crises, none
of which is an end in itself. The crises, which might of
course yield some kind of windfall gain for the Soviets,
have the main purpose of shaking the confidence of the
West in itself, deepening its sense of guilt, increasing its
fear of war, and quickening its desire of final agreement
18 NOTRE DAME
with the Soviets. Each crisis would be followed by offers
of settlement; agreement, and relaxation of tensions. The
objectives, which in each case (including Berlin) are
tactical rather than strategic, could be any of the fol-
lowing :
(a)	To maneuver the West into repeated situations
where it becomes persuaded that it is defending an un-
justifiable cause (e.g., Berlin looked upon as an abnormal
situation).
(b)	To increase, for a period, and over some con-
crete issue, the fear of total atomic war, and to put gov-
ernments under the strain of having to face the ultimate
decision. The repetition of such moments could lead to
nervous exhaustion.
(c)	To repeat the basic moral charges of “imperial-
ism,” “militarism,” “warmongering,” “Wall Street wire
pulling,” “exploitation,” and “colonialism” against the
West.
(d)	To display publicly the Soviet “will to peace,”
to insist on the practicality of peaceful coexistence and
disarmament.
(e)	To move the West nearer to an over-all settle-
ment with the U.S.S.R., implying “peaceful acceptance”
of the Soviet empire and its interest.
The strategy of Soviet foreign policy consists in the
plan to bring about, by a series of such tactical engage-
ments, the gradual self-demobilization of the anti-Com-
munist bloc.
Some Requirements of Western Strategy
At this point, only a few scattered conclusions will be
drawn from the above analysis of Soviet strategy.
One conclusion is obviously that Western military
policy should not be designed in purely military terms.
Given the strategic outlook of the two main antagonists,
an all-out atomic war is not likely. Defense arrange-
ments are rather likely to have considerable significance
in the context of political warfare. A good case can be
made for the thesis that the pattern of Soviet military
policy has been designed as much for maximum political
rather than purely military effect. We could not, of
course, imitate the Soviet Union in this, since our poli-
tical objectives are quite different from those of the
Kremlin. But we would do well to realize that a most
important, if not at present the most important, utility
of our military preparations is their effect in countering
the enemy’s indirect (political) attack against the poli-
tical foundations of our defensive strength. In other
words, we have to learn something that is quite alien to
our way of conducting our national affairs: the strategy
and tactics of a special kind of limited war, the cold war.
Defensive cold war strategies include plans to keep
our military capability from falling below the balance
point, to guard and maintain our fighting will, and to
cultivate the solidarity of the free world alliance system.
Offensive cold war strategies would aim at a reduction
of Soviet power, at the recuperation of territories and
peoples which have fallen under Communist rule,
and eventually, at the ousting of communism from all
centers of public power.
As we guard our military capability from falling be-
low par, we should remember that political reputation
for superior power is, both in Soviet eyes and in the
logic of cold war operations, more important than the
actual test of capabilities in open warfare. It would
therefore seem highly advisable not to underestimate the
effect of spectacular achievements suited to keep up the
world’s respect for our technological prowess.
A far more difficult task is the guarding of our de-
fensive will against deterioration. Under the present
conditions of public opinion, it would seem a rather
hopeless task to try to get ourselves into a mood where
we will bravely face atomic destruction in order to de-
fend ourselves against the Soviet Union. The public
has been too deeply saturated with the fear of indescrib-
able horrors which the use of atomic weapons of mass
destruction would bring about. Hence our continued
fighting will depends decisively on the development of
both clean and tactical atomic weapons. It is not so
much the desirability of “limited wars” which should
prompt us to develop such weapons with utmost speed,
but rather the need to regain our own willingness to
use modem weaponry at all. The destructive power of
fission and fusion exists in our age. The problem is to
get it under our control, instead of allowing it to master
our will.
Apart from this, our defensive will must be guarded
by a continued effort to recognize the Soviet threat for
what it is, and to beware of all temptations to enter into
a summit agreement that would in fact amount to a
“peaceful acceptance” of the Soviet Empire.
Offensive cold war strategies can and should not be
discussed in a public document. It may, however, be
said that some public preparations must be made before
we can think of engaging in offensive cold war strategies.
First among these is a reversal of the public sense of his-
torical momentum.
The communist view of history has been allowed a
virtual monopoly in. the modem world. According to
that view, we represent the (already half dead) past
and the Communists, together with the colonial peoples,
the budding and hopeful future. We must restore to the
Western World a sense of historic reality. To this end,
we must place the Soviet power itself into the perspec-
tive of history and begin publicly to envisage a world
that has been delivered from the Soviet threat. We
must begin to speak of a future beyond communism, of
things as they would be when Communists have been
toppled from their dictatorial seats of power, of the de-
velopment of their social and political legacy toward
justice and freedom. We must display public confidence
that we shall see this day, and see it without total atomic
destruction.
We must also publicly develop a concept of genuine
peace. We seem to have left this term to the Soviets as
their exclusive possession. At any rate, we have not
spelled out, in fairly precise terms, under what kind of
conditions peace could be restored. We no longer specify
certain political terms in Central Europe as prerequisites
of an acceptable order. We also should, for our own
use, have a list of priorities of things we should like to
accomplish internationally, as opportunities offer them-
selves. Such a list could begin with items like “free ac-
cess to Berlin” and culminate in items like “non-Com-
munist governments in all satellite states.”
Our chances of winning a limited war fought by po-
litical strategies and tactics are excellent. But, first, we
must develop the will to win this war. At present we
have at best a will to survive.
19
To advance Notre Dame’s position
of leadership in the acadtmic world . . .
Yr, Edward J, J. Tacey,
p. 0.	436
State College,,
for
FACULTY
DEVELOPMENT
early one-fifth of the $18,000,000
currently being sought by Notre Dame will be used
to stabilize and strengthen its faculty of 483 scholars,
.scientists and artists.
Your support will enable the University to recognize
the achievement and loyalty of its present teachers and
attract outstanding new figures to its permanent teach-
ing corps.
Faculty development funds also will make it possible
for widely recognized scholars to come to Notre Dame
as visiting professors, lecturers or participants in campus
symposia.
By establishing endowed chairs or participating in
the “living chair” plan, donors can help assure the
faculty's growth in excellence. An individual or com-
pany can establish a “living chair” at Notre Dame by
underwriting approximately one third of a faculty mem-
ber's salary on an annual basis. This form of annual
giving helps close the gap between students’ tuition
and the actual cost of their education.