HOWETT GETS ENCYCLOPEDIA POST
John Howett, curator of the University of Notre Dame
gallery, has been appointed a member of the Advisory
Committee on Art of The New Catholic Encyclopedia.
$40,200 NSF GRANT AWARDED
Notre Dame has been awarded a $40,200 National
Science Foundation errant to conduct a summer institute
for collegiate engineering teachers on “Fundamentals of
Automatic Control Systems.” Approximately 30 engi-
neering educators from colleges and universities through-
out the country are expected to attend the Institute from
June 17 to August 2. Dr. E. W. Jerger, acting head of the
Mechanical Engineering department, will be the director
of the Institute, and Dr. F. H. Raven will serve as asso-
ciate director.
TUITION COST RISES $100
A $100 increase in tuition for undergraduates effective
next September was announced recently by Rev. Edmund
P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice president and treasurer.
The University is raising its undergraduate tuition to
$1,300 for the 1963-64 school year because of “con-
tinually increasing educational costs.”
STEVENSON WINS PATRIOTISM AWARD
Adlai E. Stevenson, U. S. ambassador to the United
Nations, was named recipient of the 10th annual Patriot-
ism Award of the University of Notre Dame’s senior class.
Glass president Edgar C. Eck, Jr., of Richmond, Va.,
made the announcement. Stevenson accepted the award
and delivered an address at the University’s traditional
Washington’s Birthday Exercises on February 18 in the
Stepan Center.
SMELSER PRESIDES
Prof. Marshall Smelser, head of Notre Dame’s History
department, presided at a joint session of the American
Historical Association and the Mississippi Valley Histori-
cal Association, the nation’s two largest professional histor-
ical societies, at the Conrad Hilton Hotel in Chicago in
December.
NEW ALUMNI DIRECTORS CHOSEN
Four new directors of The Notre Dame Alumni Asso-
ciation were elected by 30,000 Notre Dame alumni.
Named to three-year terms were George A. Bariscillo, Jr.,
Bradley Beach, N. J., attorney; Paul I. Fenlon, Notre
Dame, Ind., retired professor of English at the University;
Morton R. Goodman, Los Angeles, Calif., attorney; and
W. Lancaster Smith, Dallas, Tex., attorney.
STANDARD OIL GIVES $10,000
The University of Notre Dame received a $10,000
grant as part of the Standard Oil Foundation’s expanded
program in support of higher education.
DUPONT MAKES TWO GRANTS
The University of Notre Dame has received two grants
from the DuPont Company, Wilmington, Del., as part of
its annual $1,780,000 aid to education program. The
chemical manufacturer has awarded a $4,000 grant to
Notre Dame to help maintain excellence of teaching in
Chemistry and other courses. It has also provided funds
for a postgraduate teaching assistantship in the Univer-
sity’s Chemistry department.
SHAPIRO APPOINTED CONSULTANT
Dr. Sherman Shapiro, associate professor of Finance
and Business Economics at Notre Dame, has been ap-
pointed a consultant to the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency, U. S. Treasury Department, Washington,
D. C.
ARMSTRONG GIVES A.A.C. SPEECHES
James E. Armstrong, executive secretary of the Notre
Dame Alumni Association and president of The Ameri-
can Alumni Council, addressed five A.A.C. district meet-
ings during January and February. He spoke at the
University of New Mexico at Albuquerque, Jan. 13-15;
the LaQuinta Hotel, Palm Springs, Calif., Jan. 16-19;
Yale University, New Haven, Conn., Jan. 24-26; the Bilt-
more Hotel, Atlanta, Ga., Jan. 27-29; and the Pocono
Manor Inn, Pocono Manor, Pa., Jan. 30-Feb. 1.
SCIENCE BOARD HEARS FATHER HESBURGH
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of
Notre Dame, made the principal address at a California
Institute of Technology dinner, recently held in Pasadena,
California, honoring members of the National Science
Board.
PROFESSOR SZCZESNIAK EDITS BOOK
Prof. Boleslaw Szczesniak of the History department
is the editor of a new book, The Opening of Japan.,
A Diary of Discovery in the- Far East, 1853-56, by Rear
Admiral George Henry Preble, U.S.N., which depicts
the epic events which led to the opening of Japan to
Western commerce by Commodore Perry.
(Continued on page 18)
• EDITOR: JOHN H. JANOWSKI
NOTRE DAME VOL. 16, No. 1, SPRING, 1963
Published quarterly by the University of Notre
Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second
class matter May 10, 1928, at Post Office at Notre
Dame, Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.
2
NOTRE DAME
NOTRE DAME MEETS
IALLENGE
J
S-v *
A - r .

$18,000,000

Greatest Fund Drive
Successful Before Deadline
The mid-February announcement of success
in the $18,000,000 Challenge Program of the
University of Notre Dame is spurring alumni and
friends to fulfill their pledges and make additional
gifts before June 30, 1963 — the deadline of the
Ford Foundation Matching Gift Program.
IMPORTANT
If you have not already responded to this
greatest development program in Notre Dame
history, you are more than welcome to do so
now. Just send your check—large or small—to
the University of Notre Dame Foundation, Box
555, Notre Dame, Indiana. Additional informa-
tion on the program is also available without
obligation.
To date, alumni gifts and pledges total
$6,001,321.22, representing an average alumnus
gift of $365.00. As additional alumni gifts are
received, the alumni participation figure — now
hovering at 72.9%, a new Notre Dame record —
rises steadily.
In addition, 3,761 nonalumni friends contrib-
uted $4,750,476.87; corporations and companies
gave $3,346,463.84; and 150 foundations made
gifts totaling $3,906,298.27.
Today, on the campus, the physical develop-
ment made possible by the Challenge Program’s
success is quite evident. The 13-story Memorial
Library construction proceeds rapidly, with the
scheduled opening of the facility this fall. The
new Computing Center and Mathematics Build-
ing is operational and the new Stepan Center is
being used regularly by students for a variety of
3

concerts, convocations, dances, assemblies and
other activities.
Other benefits resulting from this fund-
raising campaign include additional faculty devel-
opment, student aid, and a retirement plan for
nonacademic employees of the University.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Univer-
sity president, reminded the loyal and sacrificing
alumni and friends of Notre Dame that the Chal-
lenge goal is still not completely met in terms of
cash gifts. He also urged each and every alumnus
and friend of Notre Dame to join in the “final
thrust” toward the $18,000,000 goal and the June
30 deadline.
Father Hesburgh also praised the Ford Foun-
dation, saying that its Special Program in Educa-
tion “has had the greatest single impact of any-
thing that has happened in Notre Dame’s 120
years of life to spur us on with unexpected speed
toward our total goal of academic excellence.”
When Notre Dame was named a participant
in the Special Ford Foundation Program in 1960,
alumni and friends of the University recognized
at once the importance of this program. When
plans for the Notre Dame Memorial Library
were announced and the Challenge Campaign
rolled into “high gear” with a nationwide tele-
phone “kickoff” program in 1961, the response
was immediate.
1
Never before in the history of Notre Dame
have alumni and friends of the University re-
sponded with gifts so generously or in such
numbers.
In the future accounts of Notre Dame history,
the period from July 1, 1960 to June 30, 1963
will stand as a monument to the loyalty and
devotion of those who recognize Our Lady’s
school as “something special.”
As construction proceeds on the 13-story Notre Dame Memorial Library (center), a new quadrangle starts to take form
on the east campus. The Computing Center and Mathematics Building (right), will be dedicated later this spring. The
March 5, 1963.
I
I
' .V •
Mx-
This time, instead of writing to you, I
am going to reproduce a letter that was
recently written to me. We often speak
with gratitude, as we should, of the great
financial contributions to the University.
This letter speaks of the human contribu-
tion made by so many of you, and for
which we are also both proud and grateful.
Dear Father Hesburgh:
I feel quite certain that the overwhelming
majority of Notre Dame men realize that it
takes “big money” to maintain, operate, and
expand the facilities, the curricula, the staff
and the vital research of our University.
When we have a reputation for excellence,
and we have, we attract men of stature, com-
petence, skill, talent and the greatly gifted, who
further add to our greatness as a university.
We are, in my opinion, the outstanding Cath-
olic center of higher learning in North America.
I like to believe, and I do believe, that we are
one of the finest universities in the world.
Our growth, our progress, our position of pre-
eminence I believe are attributable to Notre
Dame men. Notre Dame men are proud of
Notre Dame. Sons for Our Lady come from
loyal and dedicated Notre Dame men.
And, dear Father, there are some Notre
Dame men in the far reaches of the vineyard
doing their daily duty to God and family who
go unnoticed. Solid, sound, religious and reli-
able people doing their jobs day after day are
the ones we count on. When they are “on
duty” we don’t worry. We trust them and we
know the job will get done. There isn’t a
service, or profession or university in any state
or all of the good old U.S.A, that doesn’t have
from one to a hundred of these unsung heroes.
Like the beautiful and constant love of a
devoted husband and wife, unfortunately, but
almost universally, we take them for granted.
How easy it is to deceive one who loves you
so deeply! How easy it is to overlook those
who are always on the job, never complaining,
never asking for favors.
How terribly wrong we are to overlook these
unsung heroes and heroines. We all want rec-
ognition. It is a basic need as compelling as
hunger, or security or love. These are wonder-
ful people. These are real people. These are
our people.
This is not an apology, or alibi, or rational-
ization. This is a true portrayal of one facet
of a many-sided picture. We, too, have our eyes
uplifted toward eternity. Amidst our daily
chores, our struggle to keep our heads above
water financially; in trying to be exemplary
parents to eight children; in trying not to be
remiss in any of our duties or obligations to
our community, state, nation and to God—we,
too, try ever so hard and consistently to keep
our souls and minds and hearts in readiness
for the awesome grandeur of the Redemptive
Promises.
After fighting my way gladly and willingly
through eight years of military service; giving
15 years to Boy Scout leadership; 5 years to
teaching; mayor of Vetville; 1 year of individual
and group counseling for an alcoholic institute;
9 years as a Sociologist and Criminologist
dedicated to the “resurrection” of our youth;
and now the last two as an Administrative
Director of a beautiful new Retirement Home,
I know that I have my basic values in proper
focus and order of importance.
When I received my M.A. in Correctional
Administration on August 8, 1952, handed to
me by you, I knew that in the face of numerous
difficulties and obstacles I had accomplished
something that few achieve. At that moment
in time I had a wife, four children, no more
G.I. Bill, no money and no job; yet I was
the proudest man in the world. I had nothing
(according to some standards) yet I had every-
thing. The Triune God had indeed been most
generous to me and I was truly grateful.
At this moment in time my intense loyalty
and love of Notre Dame has in no way
diminished. Not meaning to be facetious but
just to point to one minute item which is
characteristic of my total dedication to, and
pride in, Notre Dame, i.e., my Illinois license
plate reads N. D. 1234!
Surely what I have said speaks for itself.
If I had a million dollars I would share it
equally with you. I would love to give; I want
to give; I pray that the day will come when
may give and give generously.
So, forgive me, Father, and pray lor me as
pray for all of you.
I hope this means as much to you as it
does to all of us here.
Ever devotedly in Notre Dame,
(The First of a two-part Report from Chile)
by WALTER M. LANGFORD
Professor Langford is co-
ordinator of the Chilean
Peace Corps Project. He has
been a member of the
Notre Dame faculty for 30
years, and has spent the
last two years in Chile with
the Peace Corps volunteers
he describes in this article.
In mid-September of 1961 forty-five Peace Corps
Volunteers completed a period of intensive training at
Notre Dame and some days later sailed off for Chile. It
is now almost a year and a half later and a sort of report
on our doings in that time seems to be in order. We have
since been joined by 57 other Volunteers, some of these
augmenting our own group and the remainder being dis-
tributed among two new projects. These new PCVs, how-
ever, have all arrived in recent months, so that this
resume is going to concern itself only with the original 45
who comprised Chile Peace Corps Project I.
This Project is administered for the Peace Corps by
the Indiana Conference of Higher Education. As such it
is one of a small number of projects whose direction has
been entrusted by the Peace Corps to private agencies
(besides the Indiana Conference, others include CARE,
YWCA, Heifer, Inc., and a few universities). Projects so
administered are no different otherwise than projects run
directly by the Peace Corps, all of whose regulations and
directives we, of course, follow closely. Our host organiza-
tion here in Chile is the Instituto de Educacion Rural (or
IER), into whose work our Volunteers have rather com-
pletely integrated themselves.
WHAT IS CHILE LIKE?
Chile is a geographical oddity wedged between the
fabled Andes and the Pacific for a stretch of some 2800
miles, with the average width of the country being a scant
100 miles. The northern third lies mostly in the world’s
driest desert and is sparsely populated except for a few
port cities and the copper and nitrate mining centers.
The southern third is a sort of never-never land of rain
forests, islands, lakes, fjords, and volcanoes, and is hardly
inhabited at all other than for the world’s southernmost
city of Punta Arenas. It is in the central valley (lying be-
tween the Andes and a coastal range) that the vast bulk
of Chile’s 7,000,000 people live and it is here that nearly
all of our Volunteers are working (the remaining handful
barely spills over into the northern and southern zones
already mentioned).
The climate in the central valley ranges from magnifi-
cent in the area of the capital city, Santiago, to quite wet
and cold as you move towards the southern end of the
valley. This part of Chile is about as far south of the
equator as the U.S. Midwest is north of it, and the trees,
vegetation, and agricultural products are pretty similar.
Obviously, the seasons here are exactly the reverse of the
ones we know in the States.
PHENOMENAL BEAUTY
Chile’s phenomenal natural beauty is spearheaded by
the Andes, ever white-topped and veritably cascading in
snow during the winter months. In the south of the cen-
tral valley it is common to find lakes of stunning beauty
nestled against the base of perfect volcano cones. At times
the eye can discern as many as six or more of these volcano
peaks at once. Ski resorts are numerous, fishing is re-
putedly terrific, and the countryside is deluged with
millions of poplars, willows, eucalypti, and pines. Added
to this are coastal jewels such as Concepcion, Valparaiso,
and the fabulous resort spot, Vina del Mar, a showcase
gem of the rarest quality. There are very few to brave
the ocean swimming, however, for the water’s far too cold
for comfort practically all the time.
Chile, like all Latin-American nations, is primarily an
agricultural country. Industry is still scant and prospects
for its rapid development are not especially bright. Cop-
per, nitrates, and sulphur provide practically all of Chile’s
foreign exchange commerce. And the difficulty with her
agriculture is that it doesn’t produce enough to supply
6 NOTRE DAME
i
the domestic needs. The fact is, though, that it could do
so by a fuller utilization of the small percentage of the
land that is tillable, by the use of fertilizers, and by some
updating of farming techniques.
Along with Argentina, Uruguay, and Costa Rica, Chile
is known as one of the “white” nations of Latin America.
Originally populated by the fiercest-fighting Indians of the
New World, the Araucanians, Chile’s racial strain now
shows no Indian influence except for some thousands of
Mapuches (descendants of the Araucanians) who are
squeezed mostly into coastal and mountain regions to-
wards the far south. Negroes are nearly unknown in Chile,
so much so that our several colored Volunteers are the
object of intense curiosity. No discrimination, mind you,
just overpowering curiosity which impels youngsters and
even adults to follow them along streets staring merciless-
ly. Chile received very heavy German immigration, espe-
cially in the latter part of the 19th century, and this ethnic
influence is everywhere visible.
CHILE STANDS IN CONTRAST
Politically Chile stands even more in contrast with
most of her sister Latin-American states, for she can point
with pardonable pride to a history of political stability
and freedom not equalled elsewhere below the Rio
Grande. It is nothing short of ironic that Chile’s democ-
racy — one of her strongest assets — places her in the
grave danger of becoming a communist state. This ap-
parent contradiction is explained by the fact that her
free elections, respect for the ballot, and the tradition of
military nonintervention may lead to a legal triumph in
the 1964 elections by the FRAP, a coalition of the ex-
treme left parties dominated by the socialists and the
communists. In 1958 the FRAP candidate lost through a
sort of freak circumstance by only 35,000 votes to Jorge
Alessandri, whose government represents a coalition of the
Conservatives, Radicals, and Liberals (all right-of-center
parties). The third strong force is that of the Christian
Democrats, now the largest single party but not at the
moment aligned with any other group. It is expected
that the municipal elections of April 7 (in which each
party must run its own candidates) will clear the political
air by provoking some shifts in alignments that may make
the outcome of the 1964 elections more predictable.
In Chile we find the traditional small but very
wealthy and powerful upper class which owns nearly all
the land and has ruled the country up to now. There is
also a small middle class, though only a fraction as large
as it needs to be and growing too slowly. The under-
privileged masses, then, make up the immense bulk of the
seven million people. They are found either in the slums
mushrooming alarmingly around the larger cities (espe-
cially Santiago ) or in the rural regions. It is this bulging
lower class which condemns Chile to continued existence
as an underdeveloped nation until such time as social and
economic betterment reaches all of these people to some
extent. There is evident in the rural areas an awakening
of the campesinos or peasants, a yearning for something
different and better that will have to be satisfied in the
coming decade.
THE WORK OF THE IER
The Institute de Education Rural is a young organiza-
tion (only some eight years old, with most of its growth
coming in the past three years) which is committed pre-
cisely to promoting and hastening the better life for the
campesinos. Its activities and efforts are two-pronged. It
now has 16 Centrales or schools (five shiny new ones
erected this past year with $575,000 of USAID funds
under the Alliance for Progress) in which campesino boys
and girls receive special 5-month courses in basic and prac-
tical training. The practical skills for the girls include
cooking and preserving, sewing, weaving, and gardening,
and for the boys carpentry, farm mechanics, gardening,
farming, and small-animal husbandry. With a capacity of
50 students in each school, approximately 1,600 young-
sters get this “booster” course each year. Of this number
about 200 are given second-level training from which
some of them are chosen for a role as campesino leaders
known in the IER as delegados.
The other aspect of the IER work is one of community
development among the campesinos. This program is
During Father Hes-
burgh’s visit to Chile
in 1962, Tom Scanlon
(N.D. ’60) discusses
conditions in his liv-
ing quarters in Rio
Negro, 600 miles
south of Santiago.
7

built around the delegados who, being rural people them-
selves, have a definite psychological advantage in ap-
proaching and influencing the campesinos. The delegados,
working in teams that include the majority of our Volun-
teers, launch a program of action in given areas designed
to arouse the interest of the campesinos and to get them to
organize for the sake of collective action. This effort of
the IER has stimulated the formation of hundreds of
centros campesinos and has sparked all sorts of new activ-
ities, such as the formation of cooperatives, many phases
of homemaking (cooking, food preserving, child care,
sewing, improvement of sanitary facilities, etc.), the pro-
motion of home industries like shirt making and rug
weaving, the use of fertilizers, the value of building fences
around planted fields, modern methods of poultry and
hog raising, practical experience in effective marketing
of products, and many others. A good number of these
activities was added to the repertoire by our own Vol-
unteers.
INITIAL PROBLEMS OF THE VOLUNTEERS
o’clock, and dinner at anywhere from 8:30 on. This
means that the evening is practically gone by the time
dinner is disposed of. The diet of the campesinos runs very
heavily towards bread, potatoes, and rice, with some vege-
tables but not much meat, fruit, fish, eggs, or milk.
Keeping warm has been one of the bigger problems for
Volunteers. The central valley of Chile is not hot to
begin with. It can get warm in the middle of the summer
days, but there is always a sharp drop in temperature at
sundown, and the nights are quite cool in summer and
rather bone-chilling the rest of the time. The difficulty is
that central heating is most uncommon even in Santiago
and largely unheard of among the campesinos. If you
think this isn’t such a great problem, why not turn off
your automatic thermostat in late fall or early spring and
see how much fun it is to come rolling out of bed in the
morning with the thermometer standing at about 40° or
less. When the rains come in the south (our PGVs are
distributed over a north-to-south expanse of more than
1,000 miles), it’s not only hard to keep warm but nearly
impossible to get dried out.
It took several months for our Peace Corps Volunteers
to make countless adjustments to the reality of Chilean
life. In fact, it can’t be claimed that everyone is perfectly
adjusted even yet, for complete assimilation into another
culture is surely a matter of years rather than months. It
must be remembered, too, that these PGVs not only have
had to fit themselves into a different culture far from
home but also have had to live on a socio-economic level
considerably distinct from what they have known before.
Nearly all of our young people are from middle-class
American homes, but here in Chile they are living pretty
much the life of the rural campesinos they are hoping to
help. This, of course, has not been easy. The facilities,
conveniences, and luxuries of home are conspicuously ab-
sent. In fact, their living conditions are primitive at
worst and crowded at best. Little things like personal
privacy are simply impossible.
One of the earlier adjustments concerned the eating
habits and hours of the Chileans. Here there are four
meals per day: breakfast, lunch, “tea” at about five
(Continued in the next issue.)
Advantages of Government Work
Outlined to Student Prospects
Another type of government service — summer
employment in various government agencies in
Washington, D.G. — has been explained to Notre
Dame students recently by U.S. Secretary of Com-
merce Luther H. Hodges and Dean Stephen K.
Bailey, of the Maxwell Graduate School of Citizen-
ship and Public Affairs, during campus visits.
The student internship program is being coordi-
nated by Professor Thomas P. Bergin. On March
9, more than 130 Sophomores, Juniors and Seniors
who will go to graduate school took examinations
to qualify for work this summer under the program.
Joe Keyerleber (N.D.
’61 ) teaches a couple of
Chilean youngsters the
art of tying knots while
Dave Coombs (N.D.
’61) looks on approv-
ingly.
The residents of the smallest and most remote hall
on the Notre Dame campus will someday play key roles
in the administration of the University and of many
other institutions in this country and abroad. Located
“across the lake,” St Joseph Hall is the first training
ground for many future Holy Cross priests. Within a
few years they will fill posts as teachers and administra-
tors, as missionaries in Asia and Africa, as pastors,
preachers, writers, editors, publishers, and in all the
other world-wide activities of the Holy Cross Fathers
and Brothers. These young men are all “Notre Dame
students — with a difference.”
St. Joseph Hall is the current home of an interesting,
unique and much-travelled program which began in the
closing years of World War II when the first veterans
began to drift back to the campus following their dis-
charge from service. Among them were some who were
considering the priesthood as their vocation. Their war
years had given them time for serious thought about the
future, and they wanted a place where they could study
and pray — and decide. At Notre Dame they followed
an ordinary program but their classes, especially in
Latin and Philosophy, were under seminary auspices.
They met regularly at Holy Cross Seminary on the
campus for week-end retreats and spiritual direction.
They were looking forward to parish work, teaching,
perhaps to returning as missionaries one day to the
lands where they had fought for Uncle Sam. Many
were not sure of their vocation but they found the whole
atmosphere of the Notre Dame program conducive to
making the right decision.
As the program gradually jelled in the years following
1945, the candidates were housed in various halls, notably
“Old College,” the first building erected at Notre Dame
after its founding in 1842. Finally, in 1958 with the
construction of the new Moreau Seminary, the old
Seminary, its name changed to “St. Joseph Hall,” be-
came available, and the program moved into its present
quarters. There an annual average of 40 young men,
most of them candidates for the Holy Cross priesthood
but a few lay Brother candidates, live, pray, study, work,
eat and sleep and in general pursue a life which, at
first glance, very much resembles that of the regular
students on campus. Like their counterparts in the
other residence halls, the St. Joseph “Saints” are of all
sizes and shapes, ages and backgrounds. They come
from many states — last year there were two from
Ireland. Arnone; other entrants there have been an
Annapolis graduate, a professional barber, a teacher at
a leadine; law school in the South, a valedictorian of a
Notre Dame class, the greatest “Cyrano” ever to tread
Washington Hall’s venerable boards, two German youths
who had been members of Hitler’s “Youth Corps” —
and many others. Veterans are fewer these days, the
majority of the students being just out of high school.
In 1962, seventeen regular Notre Dame students moved
“across the lake” to begin their studies for the priesthood
in St. Joseph Hall.
9
and a native of East Pakis-
tan, points out missionary
stations of Holy Cross priests
in his country. Rev Lawrence
LeVasseur, C.S.C., superior
of St. Joseph hall (left),
counsels one of the students
in his office. Study in the
reading room of St. Joseph
hall (above), is an impor-
tant part of every resident’s
day.
Rev. Joachim
C.S.C. (lower
dent priest at
J
J. Rozario,
left), a stu-
Notre Dame

Some of the men are college graduates — others are
at various stages of their college careers. The under-
graduates are in pursuit of an Arts and Letters degree
from Notre Dame — all, both grads and undergrads,
concentrate heavily on Latin, Philosophy, English and
History, with enough Math and the social and physical
sciences to provide the balanced education their future
priesthood will require.
Despite these similarities, the St. Joseph Hall resident
does differ from other Notre Dame students. He rises
at 5:55 a.m. (except on Sundays and holidays when he
is allowed the luxury of an extra half hour’s sleep)
and proceeds with all deliberate speed, considering the
hour, towards the chapel for morning prayer and Mass.
Breakfast is followed by a period of housework ranging
from “kitchen police” to caring for the sacristy. Then
comes the usual schedule of class and study until time,
for visit to the Blessed Sacrament and lunch. In the
afternoon, there are more classes and study plus a liberal
amount of recreation, inside or outside the house depend-
ing on the vagaries of Indiana weather. There are
periods for church music, spiritual reading and rosary in
chapel, regular conferences by the superior. After' supper
at six, an hour of recreation (cards, billiards, reading,
bull sessions) is followed by night prayer, study and
lights out at 11 p.m. Other parts of the spiritual program
are weekly confession, monthly retreats, regular consul-
tation with a spiritual director and nocturnal adoration
before each First Friday.
The candidates enjoy frequent visits with relatives
and friends. Often they invite fellow students from the
campus, perhaps a little weary of the institutional “chow”
in Notre Dame’s two huge dining halls, for a meal home-
cooked by a Holy Cross Brother. Saturday afternoons in
the fall find the St. Joseph Hall contingent in the Notre
Dame Stadium or crowded around the TV or radio
to live or die with the fortunes of the “Fighting Irish.”
Thursday afternoons and evenings are free — the students
are at liberty to go to town to shop, take in a movie,
eat in one of the downtown restaurants. Their vacations
are at the usual times: Thanksgiving, Christmas, be-
tween semesters, Easter and in the summer.
Normally a candidate remains a year in St. Joseph
Hall. After that he goes to Sacred Heart Novitiate,
Jordan, Minnesota, then returns to Moreau Seminary
to complete his Notre Dame education. Following that
come four years of theology at one of the Congrega-
tion’s theological seminaries (Washington, D.C., Rome,
France, Chile) and ordination to the priesthood. Every
priestly apostolate will be open to him: teaching or
administrative work at Notre Dame or some other school
10 NOTRE DAME
convocation
chapel.
Father LeVasseur
(right), speaks to all
the residents of St. Jo-
seph hall in a special
hall
forms
and
are
in the
Many
of recreation
athletic activity
made available
for St. Joseph hall stu-
dents (below), as
part of their overall
training. Work de-
tails (lower right),
enable the students of
St. Joseph hall to
handle all the house-
keeping chores them-
selves.
J'



of the community, home or foreign missions, parish work,
preaching missions and retreats, writing, editing, publish-
ing. The Brother alumni of St. Joseph Hall will work
in offices, in shops — as electricians, carpenters, cooks,
and in many other essential occupations in the community.
How has this unique program succeeded? Is it
actually providing priests — and Brothers — for the
work of the Church and of Holy Cross? Since it received
formal status, some 550 young men have been enrolled.
While the program is still so young that most of the
classes are still in the seminary on the way to the priest-
hood, over 50 of the early arrivals have been ordained.
Among them are priests whose present occupations and
achievements offer eloquent proof of the success of the
program so far and of its solid promise for the future.
Here are a few examples:
Several young administrators and teachers of the
University of Notre Dame and other Holy Cross schools
are products of the program, including one who joined
up following his discharge from the Army where he
served as a captain in the “Battle of the Bulge” and the
Nuremberg Trials. Another alumnus is now on the
Holy Cross mission band preaching retreats and missions
from Miami to Seattle. A former Army captain, a
pilot in World War II, casts an anxious eye at troubles
in the Congo and Tanganyika from his mission church
in nearby Uganda. A member of the first group mans
another vast parish in that country while a classmate
travels rivers and rice paddies to search out his 3500
parishioners in East Pakistan. Other young priests are
now preparing themselves for teaching through doctoral
studies at some of the great universities of the world,
among them, Harvard, Yale, Fribourg, Chicago, Inns-
bruck, and in Jerusalem and Rome. Another product
of the program, though still a seminarian, played an active
role as a secretary at Vatican Council II.
Who knows? Perhaps someday one or more of this
year’s class will be back where he started, in St. Joseph
Hall, only this time as teacher, counsellor or superior of
a new group of fledgling seminarians eagerly beginning
their new careers as Notre Dame students — with
a difference.
*
11

”7

“ “39*"
■p
T


DEANS’ OUTIOOK...
Graduate School
Because of the administrative organiza-
tion of the University, many of the activi-
ties of the Graduate School involve
departments within the several colleges.
Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.G., Dean of
the Graduate School, returned to the Uni-
versity for the spring semester after having
spent the fall doing research at Yale. The
spring semester is the time that students
are selected to come to Notre Dame the
following fall. An increase in the number
of graduate programs and in the number
of fellowships available will enable the
University to attract more good graduate
students. The University has been awarded
eight 3-year predoctoral fellowships by
NASA to be awarded to students intend-
ing to do graduate work in any area of
science or engineering related to the space
sciences.
Seven NDEA 3-year fellowships were
awarded to the Departments of Philoso-
phy, Chemical Engineering, and Political
Science.
For the first time a Notre Dame gradu-
ate student will be selected to receive the
Scott Paper Company Foundation Award
for Leadership at the University of Notre
Dame. This award will be given to a first-
year graduate student in chemistry or
chemical engineering and will extend over
the last two years of the student’s doctoral
program. To be eligible for the award, a
student must have demonstrated the qual-
ities associated with the well-known
“Rhodes Scholar.”
When the Department of Electrical
Engineering inaugurates its doctoral pro-
gram in September of 1963, Notre Dame
will be the first Catholic university to offer
this type of program.
Sixty-nine nationals of foreign countries
are currently enrolled as graduate students.
There are 25 postdoctoral fellows from
ten foreign countries doing advanced re-
search on campus during the spring
semester.
William F. Eagan
Acting Dean, The Graduate School
Law School
Two events of outstanding interest are
plarmed for the spring semester. Early in
the spring there will be a conference re-
garding reapportionment, which has raised
Rev. Pau! E. Beichner, C S.C.
Graduate School
Joseph O’Meara, Jr.
Law School
Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C.
College of Arts and Letters
Thomas T. Murphy
College of Business Administration
many perplexing legal questions. For a
little later a symposium is planned on the
problems of interstate organized crime. The
Attorney General of the United States has
accepted an invitation to take part. Par-
ticipants include, in addition, distinguished
legal scholars as well as former Justice
Department lawyers now in private
practice in New York and Washington.
The President of the American Bar
Association, Mr. Sylvester G. Smith of
Newark, New Jersey, will be the featured
speaker at the annual Law Honors Ban-
quet in May. Mr. Smith’s visit will mark
the sixth consecutive year in which the
Law Honors Banquet has been addressed
by the President of the American Bar As-
sociation.
Professor Broden is the author of a
book on the Law of Social Security and
Unemployment Insurance, recently pub-
lished by Callahan & Company. He and
Professor Rodes are at work on a textbook
on Jurisprudence, and Professor Murphy
has in preparation a casebook on Con-
tracts. It is anticipated that both volumes
will be ready for classroom use next fall.
Professor Kellenberg is the author of a
new book on Real Property, now being
used for the first time.
College of Arts and Letters
Much of the activity in the senior year
for both students and teachers is not de-
voted to the student’s immediate goal,
June graduation, but to his proper place-
ment in advanced studies after June. Be-
cause eighty per cent of our liberal arts
seniors now enter graduate, law, or pro-
fessional business schools, all parties con-
cerned are most anxious that the right
prospects reach the right schools.
Admission authorities at the professional
schools are asking steadily for more criti-
cal and illuminating appraisals of appli-
cants. Our seniors are actively searching
for placement in the best schools that fit
their needs and capabilities. And the
faculty is the source of the information
requested by the other two parties in this
triangular exchange. The faculty regards
this matter as one of its most important
functions, and therefore devotes an im-
mense amount of time in writing critical
evaluations of nearly 400 seniors headed
toward graduate and professional studies.
Devere T. Plunkett
Assistant Dean
12
NOTRE DAME
College of Business Administration
In June the College of Business Ad-
ministration will graduate nearly 350
seniors — to Business (50%), to Gradu-
ate and Law Schools (25%), and to the
Armed Services (25%) and in September
will welcome approximately 300 students
from the first year of the Freshman Pro-
gram. . . .The basic 50-50 division of
liberal and professional study will con-
tinue with the new 1- and 3-year pro-
gram . . . increasing emphasis is planned
in the areas of quantitative analysis and
international business relations. . . . Recent
off-campus activities of faculty include:
Dean Thomas Murphy’s appointment by
Governor Welsh to Task Force on Indiana
Highway Control; Thomas Bergin, con-
sulting with Department of Commerce;
Sherman Shapiro, consultant to the Con-
troller of the Currency; E. J. McCarthy,
and Yusaku Furuhashi, consulting to the
Governor of Hawaii; John Houck, Dan-
forth Grant at Harvard; Jerome Mc-
Carthy, Ford postdoctoral year-long study
grant for independent marketing research.
. . . During the year two new honorary
business fraternities established chapters
on campus, Beta Gamma Sigma and
Beta Alpha Psi. . ..
College of Engineering
Several departments in the College of
Engineering are participating in programs
concerned with the development of new
approaches to undergraduate education
both in the classroom and in the labora-
tory. The objective of one of the experi-
mental programs, sponsored by the Special
Projects Section of the National Science
Foundation, is to offer research and inde-
pendent study experience to superior
undergraduate students under the direc-
tion of college faculty members, thereby
aiding in the development of these stu-
dents as creative engineers. Selected
students in the departments of Chemi-
cal, Civil and Metallurgical Engineering
are now engaged in this program which
will hopefully point the way to the broad
use of this type of training among all the
undergraduates and in all departments.
In Electrical Engineering, senior stu-
dents are now taking a required course
in Servo-mechanisms involving both class-
room and laboratory instruction. The
laboratory facilities were much improved
with the acquisition of several transisto-
rized analogue computers and other equip-
ment purchased on a matching grant basis
under the National Science Foundation’s
Undergraduate Instructional Scientific
Frederick D. Rossini
College of Science
William M. Burke
Freshman Year of Studies
CREDITS
Most of the photo-
graphs appearing in
this issue are the work
of M. Bruce Harlan,
University photogra-
pher.
The Peace Corps
pictures were taken in
Chile by Peace Corps
staff photographers.
Cover and inside
artwork by A. C. Bal-
mer.
Norman D. Gay
College of Engineering
Equipment program. Other new under-
graduate and graduate laboratory areas
are being developed and equipped for in-
struction and research in space formerly
occupied by the machine shop in the Engi-
neering building.
Following last summer’s successful sym-
posium on the Mechanics of Engineering
Structures sponsored by the department
of Civil Engineering, the department of
Mechanical Engineering is making plans
for a 1963 summer institute for college
teachers of engineering on the Fundamen-
tals of Automatic Control Systems.
College of Science
The year 1963 brings evidence of new
advances for the College of Science in its
undergraduate curricula. In 1961, it was
clear that the curricula for the under-
graduate students majoring in the six
Departments of the College of Science
(Biology, Chemistry, Geology, Mathemat-
ics, Physics, and Preprofessional Studies)
needed to be reviewed and revised to
capitalize on the higher capabilities of
undergraduate students entering the Uni-
versity, to place greater emphasis on the
fundamental principles in all subjects, to
bring about more coordination in the first
and second years of the several curricula
in science, and to improve our interdisci-
plinary instruction. The establishment of
the Freshman Year of Studies, to begin
in the fall of 1962, gave the final impetus
for a wholesale review and revision of the
curricula in the College of Science. In
order to insure that the new curricula
would be developed in an orderly fashion,
each Department established its own Com-
mittee on Undergraduate Studies, with
the primary mission of developing a cur-
riculum for the Sophomore, Junior, and
Senior years. To bring about appropriate
coordination and review on a college-
wide basis, a Committee on Undergradu-
ate Studies of the College of Science was
established. The new curricula for the
Departments of the College of Science
were approved by the University Academ-
ic Council in May, 1962.
In the new University Freshman Year
of Studies, students intending to major
in science oi' engineering are taking five
courses: English, Philosophy - Theology.
Mathematics, Chemistry and Physics.
Successful completion of these courses
permits a student to proceed directly as
a Sophomore into any one of the sciences,
completely in step with the required pro-
gram. On the basis of the record over the
past years, this new procedure will elim-
inate a great many of the difficulties
13
“ ... the pursuit
of excellence . . . ”

formerly confronting students in the first
year who found that the University major
which they had selected while in high
school was not the best one, and a change
had to be made, difficult as it was. In
the new program, much counsel and
advice is being given the Freshmen to
help them make the best selections for
their future careers.
facts involved in a particular academic decision. The faculty advisor has
before him the student’s high-school record, his College Board scores,
his mid-term and semester Notre Dame grades, along with the tests taken
by each, freshman during the week of orientation. Usually, also, personal
letters from parents and interview comments are part of this student’s
personal file. With all this pertinent material in front of them, the aca-
demic advisors are then in an excellent position to give the young student
meaningful advice,
o
Freshman Year of Studies
National Art Gallery Director Lectures
In the fall of 1959. Father Chester A.
Soleta, Vice President of Academic Af-
fairs, appointed a committee to gather
data on freshman programs in our major
universities. This committee w’as asked to
be particularly conscious of the advisory
and counseling systems at these schools.
During the next year and a half, repre-
sentatives of this committee met with the
deans and the administrative personnel of
outstanding universities on the East and
West Coasts, in the South and South East,
and in the Midwest. Course curriculums
were discussed in detail and advisory pro-
grams for freshmen were covered as com-
pletely as possible. One of the results of
this committee's activity is the present
Freshman Advisory Program.
The administration is most aware of
the fact that many students frequently
enroll in a college not best fitted for their
particular talents. Poor advice by well-
meaning friends, glamour of certain popu-
lar courses, and even parental pressure,
are causes for this. Instead of being ad-
mitted to one of our four undergraduate
colleges — Arts and Letters, Business Ad-
ministration, Engineering or Science —
the first-year student at Notre Dame is
now accepted into the Freshman Year of
Studies Program. It is the task of the
Freshman Office to help these 1,500 stu-
dents find areas of study best suited for
them, so that by late May, they will be in
a position to apply for admission as
sophomores into one of our four upper-
class colleges,
o
Available for appointment on a 100
hours a week basis are seven faculty men,
all professors of wide experience in the
classroom and on advising students. Dean
Father Daniel O’Neill and Dean Vincent
Raymond represent the Arts and Letters
and Business Administration areas; Doctor
John Scannel, Arts and Letters; and Doc-
tors Ernest Wilhelm and Michael DeCicco,
Engineering; Dr. Darwin Mead, Science.
The purpose of the faculty advisory
program is to alert the student to all the
John Walker (right), Director of the National Gallery of Art, Wash-
ington, D.C., showed colored slides of many of its paintings and other
treasures during a lecture at the University of Notre Dame in December.
Greeting him were Mrs. E. M. Morris (left), chairman of the Women’s Ad-
visory Council at the University, and Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., head of
the Notre Dame Art Department and Director of the University gallery. Mr.
Walker spoke at a tea which introduced the new Notre Dame Library
Association to more than 200 women of the South Bend area.
LEON MEDINA, GALLERY BENEFACTOR, DIES
Leon Medina of New York
City, who for the past several
years has been a friend and bene-
factor of the Notre Dame Art
Gallery, died on Feb. 16.
Mr. Medina maintained art
galleries in New York and was
adviser and buyer with the Du-
veen Gallery in London.
He was instrumental in bring-
ing to Notre Dame many rare and
beautiful objects of stone sculpture
representing the early Christian
eras of art — Byzantine, Roman-
esque and Gothic.
His interest in the Notre Dame
gallery also prompted many other
art collectors to present paintings
and sculpture to the University.
14 NOTRE DAME
By Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C.
Father McAvoy is University Archivist. He is also
an authority on the history of the Church in the United
States. This article., which appeared originally in Com-
monweal, the weekly journal of opinion edited by Catho-
lic laymen, is reprinted with permission and should be
of interest to all members of the Notre Dame family.
In the forty-three years since the formation of the
National Catholic Welfare Council after World War I,
the political distinction between Catholic and non-Cath-
olic has just about disappeared., especially since a Catholic
has now achieved the Presidency — an attainment con-
sidered impossible in 1920 and perhaps doubly so after
the campaign of 1928. No one denies that there were
voters in 1960 who drew a line politically for or against
Mr. Kennedy for religious reasons, but the political dis-
tinction of the Catholic minority has been practically
eliminated.
It is generally agreed that the United States is no
longer a Protestant country and the phrase “post-Protes-
tant” is used with no malice by such a noted Protestant
historian as Winthrop Hudson. There will always be a
tendency for noliticians to play on religious sentiment in
any community in which Catholics are numerous, but
that is just the usual political appeal towards any social
or economic as well as religious group. The question
facing American Catholics now is how to remove the
social and economic barriers to religious harmony. Prac-
tically speaking, distinctions in citizenship in the United
States are made chiefly according to economic and social
privileges.
The use of economic and social advantages as instru-
ments of discrimination has not entirely disappeared
from the press or from public discussion. Somehow the
Puritan devotion to thrift has not passed from American
life — indeed, it seems to be accepted by many who have
no Puritan ancestry, including many Catholics. The old
phase “from poor but honest parents” may have dis-
appeared from the obituary notices but there seems to
be some notion that failure to attain cultural and social
heights must imply some moral fault. As a matter of
fact, the historian of the social and cultural United
States is baffled by the unwillingness of various groups
to admit that their parents or- grandparents were poor,
or that they could not read and write, because of some
moral stigma that may be implied thereby.
Nowhere is the assumption that low attainments
socially or financially imply guilt more fallacious than
in the religious sphere, yet this moralizing about success
is usually implicit in most of the current Catholic self-
criticism. Besides the fact that such judgments are re-
ligiously unjustifiable, they actually create a great handi-
cap in the efforts of the less privileged to advance. It
is a strange development that the “rags to riches” tribute
to success is not considered much of a compliment.
A SERIOUS MATTER

This is a serious matter among Catholics because the
grandparents or great-grandparents of so many millions
of American Catholics were poor and ignorant. Cer-
tainly they were not American and, despite some vague
nationalistic boasting, these ancestors were not cultured
or noble. Catholics who act this way about then' an-
cestors are not really different from so many other
American citizens, but the percentage of Americans
with poor or uncultured ancestors is higher among
Catholics than among most American groups, just as the
percentage of urban Catholics has been almost nine
times as high as that of country Catholics.
A few years ago a group of history teachers at a
large Midwestern state university questioned the incom-
ing freshmen to find out why they were not interested
in history. They found that these youngsters said that
they were not interested in the European origins of their
families or Europe generally because that past to them
meant poverty and ignorance, if not oppression and
misery.
This turning against the past is perhaps a youthful
expression of American pragmatism — it was predicted
by Charles A. Beard in the preface to his history of
American civilization — but it has helped create a young
America which is getting more and more ignorant of its
cultural traditions and more and more secular in its




ideals. Perhaps the widening horizon of the current
social studies which talk frequently of Asian, African,
Near Eastern, and Latin American cultures and history
would be an advance if these cultures and histories
were studied seriously and with depth, but in fact the
number of youths who seriously want to know more
than how to build a happy home in suburbia is small.
The most attractive social studies and the most notable
publications discuss marriage or business problems.
Perhaps it is unfair to test the mind or thought of
American Catholics by their expression in the press, in
books, or in radio and television. In general Catholics
15

*
of opinion
among
arc
produced affairs is the differences
16 NOTRE DAME
£
not responsible for much that the public sees by
means of public communications media. There is little
that Catholics read or hear or see in the theater that
has been produced by Catholics. On the contrary, Cath-
olics seldom hear or see anything Catholic.
In the overwhelming power of our national capital-
istic and mechanized information, it has become almost
impossible for any group in the United States to main-
tain a distinct cultural tradition. Many a working Cath-
olic never reads anything Catholic besides his prayer-
book or hears anything religious besides the brief Sun-
day sermon. The chief hope in this world of mass-

those who dominate the communications media. Yet if
Catholic culture as well as the Catholic faith is to sur-
vive, there must be organs of Catholic thought and ex-
pression as well as Catholics to see and hear them.
In past generations there were several distinctions
among Catholic groups in the United States. Some-
times these differences were in political and sometimes
in economic status, but the chief difference at the turn
of the century was between the Anglo-American Cath-
olic and the non-English groups, of which only the Irish
had the native use of the English language.
In the welter of foreign tongues and old national
customs among American Catholics there was the basic
unity of Catholic doctrine and a sacramental system
centered in the same altar and usually the Latin serv-
ices. Outside of the essential liturgical services in Latin
these services gradually became English through the
preaching of English sermons, the use of English in the
parish schools and in the parish societies, and eventually
by civic participation when their lay leaders began to
be active in local politics. The Americanization process
outside of the Anglo-American group began with the
Irish and extended to the Germans, to the Poles, to the
Italians, even to the more recent immigrants with foreign
language services.
THE ARGUMENT WILL GO ON
The argument can and will go on for centuries
whether the foreign language churches and schools kept
the immigrant more Catholic or just hindered him cul-
turally, but in the Protestant America of the nineteenth
century the Catholic groups, primarily because of this
retention of foreign languages and customs, were gen-
erally considered culturally and economically a bit back-
ward. The too-seldom-recognized exceptions were chiefly
the Catholic families of English ancestry, including the
hundreds of thousands of American converts and their
descendants. In this Anglo-American group there was
a constant absorption of Irish, French, Germans, and
others who, after a generation or so, no longer thought
of themselves as anything but American Catholics. Cath-
olic cultural leadership in the United States during the

nineteenth century usually arose only in this group.
As leaders in this group, totaling nearly a million
before World War I, one might classify the Spaldings,
the Elders, the Mileses, the Clarkes, the Brownsons, the
McCloskeys and many other iamilies and individuals.
As Catholics they have one essential characteristic: they
know no contradiction between their Anglo-American
culture and their Catholicism, and they have had no
foreign culture to lay aside. And even if this group
has not furnished its full share of Catholic cultural lead-
ers this deficiency can be explained by a limitation in
their inheritance of English Catholicism since the Refor-
mation — a sort of acquiescence in being a Catholic
minority — loyal and strong but quiescent.
FREQUENTLY CONFUSED
Being non-English in origin, the more aggressive
Catholics in the United States in the nineteenth century
were frequently confused in their notions about English
culture, thinking that it was originally Protestant. They
were too sure that the crudities and irreligious mani-
festations in American life of the nineteenth century
were something American if not English and quite un-
Catholic. But after a generation of American life the
protecting shields of the Irish, German, Polish, Italian,
or Hungarian traditions have yielded to eventual
Americanization almost universally. The non-English
majority of American Catholics are still refreshingly
Catholic in practice and fidelity, but they are often the
culturally uprooted, having the culturally negative men-
tality the quizzing professors found among the young-
sters entering college. Oscar Handlin’s term “the up-
rooted” lacks the claritv of the French term deracine
but is better than “rootless” for the newer generations.
They are not interested in anything old or foreign, and
particularly so if hard efforts arc required to learn about
it.
The more aggressive Catholic leadership in the nine-
teenth and early twentieth centuries in America came
from the parents and grandparents of these same young
people. No longer, however, does the new generation
have an Irish or German or Polish or Italian tradition
on which to lean. Will Herberg has suggested that the
rise of religious membership in recent times is primarily
a searching for some identification to take the place of
that national culture that has been lost. This is hardly
true of the American Catholics of the younger genera-
tions, because the reintroduction of frequent Com-
munion and the increased participation in the liturgical
services have given a physical reality to their member-
ship in the Church, although one may reasonably ask
if these manifestations can be continued without Cath-
olic education.
There can be no doubt about the dropping away of
the foreign nationalisms. Of the thousands of Catholics
of Italian descent in colleges or high schools today

scarcely a handful know more than a few phrases in
Italian and most of them know nothing of Italian his-
tory. The youth of Polish ancestry, even if he has not
shortened or altered his name, knows nothing of Polish
history or literature. Among the Germans, the Central
Bureau of Saint Louis and Catholic laymen in other
German Catholic centers have found no successor to
Frederick Kenkel. Few Irish know anything of tire spirit
of the Easter Rebellion of 1916. Nor among the Irish
does the Irish name imply the Celtic spirit of John
Boyle O’Reilly or Peter Finley Dunne. Yet, if there is a
bright future for Catholicism in the United States it lies
in the accomplishments of the younger generations of
non-English ancestry, especially in their preservation
beyond any foreign language or custom of the faith and
the practice of Catholicism.
In discussing any religious activity in the United
States the observer must be content with mere estimates
because no government agency is allowed to collect re-
ligious data, and no foundation •—• excepting a recent
grant of the Carnegie Foundation—-has been willing to
subsidize such religious research. Perhaps no accurate
figures will ever be available in some religious and cul-
tural fields. The tendency towards an American na-
tionalism has, certainly, toned down the efforts to
enumerate the size of minority groups.
Catholics are present on most of the faculties of the
leading universities, we may say, but not in proportion


to the Catholic population or in proportion to the
number of their Catholic students. It is true that Cath-
olics are overwhelmingly dominant in Catholic colleges
and universities, but these arc not yet the cultural leaders
of the country. Catholic memberships in the leading
associations of physical, biological, and social scientists
are quite few compared to the Catholic population and
Catholics are almost unknown on the directorates of
those foundations from which these scholars draw most
of their support.
Catholics have very few voices in the great press of
the country, either in personnel or in ownership of the
agencies of public information to whom the public has
to listen. There are undoubtedly many Catholic phy-
sicians, lawyers, and businessmen, but not very many
leaders in those areas are also considered Catholic
leaders. The hierarchy is perhaps the most American
group of Catholics in the nation, but its obligation to
remain impartial to all national origins and classes has
kept most bishops silent.
NO DISTINCTIVE EXPRESSION
Neither in the Anglo-American descendants nor the
non-English descendants of our earlier Catholics today
do we find a distinctive Catholic expression of Ameri-
can life. It is true that all Catholic doctrines have been
quite clearly defined throughout the ages and that their
preachment has been reserved to the clergy officially,


£q|
it
but the fact that most of these doctrines are encased in
official Latin and even when translated are not always
immediately interesting or locally acceptable calls for
more attempts at Catholic expression.
Here the layman has a special obligation. The domi-
nant Puritan ethic in the United States is not merely a
perspicacious feeling about the value of thrift; it is his-
torically also a desire not to recognize a priestly class.
Given this very important American tradition, there is
a special work for the Catholic layman to defend and
perhaps to extend the Catholic faith and culture where
the clergyman is unwelcome. Such expression is notice-
ably absent despite the zeal of a few of the younger
generation.
The Anglo-American Catholic has no doubt about
his Catholicism, but he sees no need to be excited about
a situation of numerical and cultural inferiority that has
existed since the seventeenth century in the English-
speaking world. Properly content in his own national
culture, he is not particularly enamored of Irish, German,
Polish, or other non-English Catholic desire to create a
Catholic atmosphere. As a result the non-English Cath-
olic descendants, who have not been absorbed into the
Anglo-American groups, are potentially the leaders of
present-day Catholicism in the United States.
IN A HALF-WAY HOUSE
Intellectually the members of this group are today
in a half-way house, being neither part of their old cul-
tural ancestry nor having yet acquired a new one. The
great problem among them today is the preservation of
their Catholicism by a renewal of their belief in Cath-
olic things, partly by distinguishing between the good
and the bad in their old cultural traditions and partly
by a new expression of that Catholic faith which en-
abled their parents and grandparents to preserve so
much that is best in American Catholicism.
The present strength of American Catholicism lies in
the strong faith of these non-English Catholics, pro-
vided they remain loyal to their ancestral traditions. No
one now questions their citizenship. They especially
have the opportunity to lead in a true internationalism
— sc consonant with their Catholicism, and so American
in its lack of discrimination — by retaining the better
traditions of their ancestral cultures, even those whose
ancestors never rose high in those cultures; at the same
time they should be most appreciative of the rise in liv-
ing and social possibilities that they and their parents
have achieved in American democracy. Because their
parents and grandparents overcame the handicap of a
foreign language and culture to preserve their religious
faith, that faith should be more precious to them as the
one thing unchanged in a changed world. It is about
the only thing that can save them from cultural medioc-
rity and secularism.
Perhaps the present conservatism of the Anglo-
American Catholics — their so-called reserve — is but a
temporary reaction to a world that seems to travel too
fast, rather than a return to the beaten Catholicism of
England of the eighteenth century. They too need to
go deeper into their ancestral traditions.
These differences, when they are openly discussed,
are evidences that American Catholicism is in ferment,
and that is a hopeful sign. The conflict, or rather dis-

S'
r~"	-	.	I
i w	TSaaq !

I
agreement, between these two forces, and other differ-
ences of environment and social situations, can only
bring out eventually a better understanding of the uni-
versality of the Catholic heritage. If this ferment would
cease and American Catholics would abandon their
heritages, Catholicism would tend to disappear in fol-
lowing generations into the cultural negativism and
secularism which seem to flow from the mechanism of
modern life.
There seem to be many contradictions in American
Catholicism in the present day. There is the excitement
of modern living and the cultural emptiness of neglected
cultural heritages. The cultural uprootedness of so many
young American people — and that includes Catholics
as well as others — contrasts likewise with the outlook
of those conservatives who cannot see a brighter future
for Catholicism than that of the beaten minority of the
past. There is some excuse for cultural emptiness in
those newly mature men and women who were formed
in the years of depression and war — those roughly
between the ages of forty and sixty — but that same
generation must be on the alert to save the newer
generations.
i
*i
ii
HISTORY OF PAST 30 YEARS
It is perhaps time to begin to write the history of the
past thirty years of the Church in this country. The
biography of Cardinal Spellman is an important first
step and needs to be followed by studies of Cardinals
Mooney and Stritch, of Bishop Edwin V. O’Hara, of
Fathers John A. Ryan and George Johnson; but there
should be also biographies of the lay Catholic leaders:
of Charles G. Herbermann, of Frank C. Walker, of
Jeremiah Ford, of Thomas Murray, of Joseph P. Grace,
of Frederick Kenkel, of Frank Murphy, and of Catholic
lay and cleric in the rank and file. There are too many
studies of Knute Rockne and Al Smith. Catholic scholars
have not yet learned to separate the good from the bad
in the Catholic labor leaders, politicians, and business-
men.
There is need also of a closer survey of what was ac-
tually done in our schools and colleges. We need to know
why so much talent went too quickly into journalism,
insurance, and small businesses, why so few learned the
languages of their ancestors or the literature of those
languages, why the name Thomism got attached to dead
memorization in philosophy.
To prevent much of the confused talk about the
future of American Catholicism, there must be more
appreciation of the fact that American Catho-
lics have come a long way. Continuation of that
progress requires an effort not to jettison the
Catholic heritage for either the emptiness of the
culturally uprooted or the cultural defeatism of
a man-made mechanical world. Catholicism is
more than a tradition, but all cultural advances
and Christian culture, too, have grown through
many traditions, not the least of which are those
of Western Christendom — whether English,
French, German, Italian, Polish, or even Irish.
During a recent visit to Rome, Father
McAvoy had the opportunity to visit
briefly with Pope John XXIII.
NOTRE DAME NEWS
(Continued from page 2)
EVERS WINS FELLOWSHIP
A postgraduate fellowship in Physical and Engineering
Science at Notre Dame, sponsored by the U. S. Rubber
Co. Foundation, has been awarded to Robert C. Evers,
St. Henry, Ohio.
TWO NEW VISITING PROFS
Two theologians are serving as visiting professors at
Notre Dame during the spring semester, according to Rev.
Robert Pelton, C.S.C., head of the department of Theol-
ogy. They are Rev. Augustine P. Leonard, O.P., director
of studies at the Dominican College de la Sarte, Huy,
Belgium, and Rev. Charles Corcoran, C.S.C., professor of
Dogmatic Theology at Holy Cross College, Washington,
D. C.
PRESS PUBLISHES “DEATH IN THE FOREST”
In Death in the Forest, published by the University
of Notre Dame Press, Professor J. K. Zawodny, Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania political scientist, accuses the Soviet
Secret Police of committing one of the great “unsolved
crimes” of World War II — the Katyn Forest Massacre,
which involved the slaying of thousands of Polish officers
and enlisted men in the Katyn Forest near Smolensk.
MOSQUITO RESEARCHERS ATTEND MEETING
Research scientists associated with the Mosquito
Genetics Project in Notre Dame’s Biology department
presented papers at the annual meeting of the Ento-
mological Society of America at Phoenix, Ariz., in De-
cember. The seven participants were: Dr. George B.
Craig, Jr., project director; Usman H. Adhami, William
A. Hickey, G. A. H. McClelland, Sister Alma Louise
Mescher, Sister M. Gerald Leahy, and K. S. Rai.
SEVEN N.D.E.A. FELLOWSHIPS AWARDED
Notre Dame has been awarded seven graduate fellow-
ships for the 1963-64 academic year under terms of the
National Defense Education Act, according to an an-
nouncement by the U. S. Office of Education. Two of
the NDEA fellowships will be in the Philosophy depart-
ment’s program in symbolic logic, two will be for studies
of the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe and Communism,
and three will be in the field of Chemical Engineering,
o	o
HfaMSMBHS!
18 NOTRE DAME
SCIENCE QUARTERLY MAKES DEBUT
The Notre Dame Science Quarterly, a journal pub-
lished by students of the College of Science, was published
for the first time in December. J. Roberto Ramirez, a
senior Chemistry major from Miramar, Puerto Rico, is
editor of the new publication.
BIOLOGY SEMINAR FEATURES FOUR
Four scientists lectured in the seminar program of
Notre Dame’s Biology department during January. They
were Dr. William Klemm, a postdoctoral fellow at the
University; Dr. Clarence J. Goodnight, professor of Bio-
logical Sciences at Purdue University; Dr. A. H. McClel-
land, a research associate at Notre Dame; and Dr. Hewson
Swift, professor of Zoology, University of Chicago.
NSF GRANTS $65,000 FOR MICROFILMING
A $65,000 grant for microfilming scientific manuscripts
at the famed Ambrosian Library in Milan has been
awarded to the University of Notre Dame’s Mediaeval
Institute by the National Science Foundation. Prof. A. L.
Gabriel, Institute director, said the NSF grant is the
largest received to date in support of a Notre Dame proj-
ect to microfilm 30,000 classical, mediaeval and Renais-
sance manuscripts at the 350-year-old library. The
manuscripts, never before microfilmed in toto, will be
available to scholars at the 13-story Notre Dame Memorial
Library scheduled for completion next fall.
FATHER MILLER NAMED EDITOR
Rev. John H. Miller, C.S.C., assistant professor of
theology at Notre Dame and a specialist in the liturgy,
has been named associate staff editor of theology of
The New Catholic Encyclopedia.
FISCHER LECTURES AT SALZBURG
Edward A. Fischer, associate professor of Communica-
tion Arts at Notre Dame, went to Austria on February 6
to deliver a series of 11 lectures at the Salzburg Seminal'
in American Studies. He spoke on the general subject of
motion pictures during the four-week seminar whose
theme was “Mass Communications in the United States.”
JERGER AND YANG PRESENT PAPERS
Dr. E. W. Jerger, acting head of the Mechanical
Engineering department, and Dr. K. T. Yang, professor
of Mechanical Engineering, presented papers at the
annual winter meeting of the American Society of Me-
chanical Engineers in New York City.
TRUSTEES BEACOM AND BYRNE DIE
Thomas H. Beacom, of Winnetka, Ill. and Joseph
M. Byrne, Jr., of Newark, N.J., both members of the
Notre Dame Associate Board of Lay Trustees, died
recently after collectively serving the University for 28
years. Mr. Beacom was a 1920 graduate of Notre Dame
and was elected a trustee of the University in 1944. Mr.
Byrne graduated in 1915 and was a trustee for the past
10 years.
CREDIT UNION ISSUES ANNUAL REPORT
The University of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union
reported a 31% increase in assets and a 41% growth in
loans outstanding during 1962 at its annual meeting at
The Morris Inn. At year’s end, the organization’s assets
totaled $868,000 and loans amounted to $732,000. Dur-
ing 1962, membership in the Notre Dame Credit Union
grew to 1,565, an increase of 24%.
PAUL M. BUTLER PAPERS RECEIVED
The papers of former Democratic national chairman
Paul M. Butler were presented to the University of Notre
Dame by his widow and children. Butler, who died De-
cember 30, 1961, was a native of South Bend, Ind., and
a 1927 Notre Dame Law school graduate.
UNIVERSITY SPONSORS SEMINAR
A four-day seminar on “Religion and United States
Foreign Policy” was sponsored by the University of Notre
Dame with approximately 40 persons representing reli-
gion, education, communications, business and the profes-
sions participating. The event was scheduled in coopera-
tion with The Council on Religion and International Af-
fairs, an independent, nonsectarian organization, founded
by Andrew Carnegie in 1914, which is concerned that
the world’s major religions should apply their ethical
principles to problems of international relations.
FRENCH INSTITUTE SLATED FOR CANADA
A summer institute for elementary and secondary
schoolteachers of French will be conducted by the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame at Trois-Rivieres in Quebec, Can-
ada. Dr. Charles Parnell, institute director, said 24
elementary and 40 secondary school French teachers will
be enrolled for the eight-week program, July 1 - August
23. The institute will be held at the College Seraphique,
a Franciscan secondary school midway between Montreal
and Quebec, with the support of a grant under the Na-
tional Defense Education Act.
PHALIN NAMED TO ADVISORY COUNCIL
Howard V. Phalin, executive vice president of the
Field Enterprises Educational Corporation, Chicago, HL,
has been appointed to the Advisory Council for the
Liberal and Fine Arts at the University of Notre Dame.
GETTYSBURG CENTENNIAL PLANNED
Notre Dame alumni will commemorate the 100th
anniversary of the Battle of Gettysburg with a Field Mass
and program there Saturday, June 29th, at noon. A new
plaque will be unveiled at the statue of Rev. William
Corby, C.S.C., who gave general absolution to troops of
the Irish Brigade as they entered the historic battle. Father
Corby served as president of Notre Dame from 1866 to
1872 and from 1877 to 1881. Rev. Thomas J. O’Donnell,
C.S.C., is in charge of arrangements for the event to
which alumni in the East are particularly invited.
PRESIDENT VISITS SWITZERLAND AND MEXICO
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the
University of Notre Dame, participated in international
conferences in Switzerland and Mexico. Father Hesburgh
was a Vatican City representative at a United Nations
Conference in Geneva on “The Application of Science
and Technology for the Benefit of the Less Developed
Areas.” He also attended a Conference on Higher Educa-
tion in the American Republics in Cuernavaca and
Mexico City.
UNIVERSITY PRESS HONORED
The University of Notre Dame Press received the 1962
Pierre Charles Mission Book Award of Fordham Univer-
sity, for its publication of Generation of Giants by Rev.
George Dunne, S.J. The book tells the story of the Jesuit
missionaries in China during the last decades of the Ming
dynasty in the early 17th century.
19
Mr. Edward J. J. Tracey, Jr.
P. 0. Box 436
State College, Pa.
The College of Arts and Letters. the oldest college of the University of
Notre Dame, has been in existence since the University was founded in 1842.
Currently the College is headed by Rev. Charles E. Sheedy. C.S.C.. the dean,
who is assisted by Prof. Devere T. Plunkett and Prof. Richard J.
Thompson, assistant deans.
Sophomores. Juniors and Seniors currently enrolled in the College cf Arts
and Letters number 1,761. In addition. 481 Freshmen have indicated an
A B. preference, bringing the undergraduate college total enrollment
to 2.242. an all-time high.
The faculty of the College of Arts and Letters is composed of approximately
228 full-time members.
The departments of the College include: Art. Classics.
Communication Arts. Economics. Education. English. General
Program of Liberal Studies, History. Modern Languages. Music,
Philosophy. Physical Education, Political Science. Sociology.
Theology. Military Science. Naval Science, and Air Science.
Headquartered in the O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts,
the College of Arts and Letters continues to serve the University of Notre
Dame with distinction and zeal.
Today, Notre Dame's ability to provide scholarships to de-
serving students is limited by a lack of funds for this purpose.
As an alumnus or friend of the University, you can recognize
the importance of maintaining the high level of students coming
to Notre Dame, and making sure that financial problems do not
exclude deserving students from the opportunity of obtaining a
degree from Notre Dame.
To assist these deserving young men, memorial scholarships
are available through the Notre Dame Foundation at remarkably
low cost.
For additional Information please contact:
SCHOLARSHIP CHAIRMAN
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION
P. O. BOX 555
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA