
Enrollment in the University of Notre Dame’s 123rd
academic year for the Fall semester reached a total of
6,982, according to the Office of Academic Affairs.
Included in the totals were 5,831 undergraduates,
190 Law School students and 961 graduate students.
The Freshman class in 1964 totaled 1,593 represent-
ing more than 750 high schools in the United States and
foreign corm tries.
COUSINS AND WHITE JOIN LIBRARY COUNCIL
Norman Cousins, president and editor of The Satur-
day Review, and Professor Helen Constance White, chair-
man of the English department at the University of Wis-
consin, have been named members of the Notre Dame
Library Council by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.,
University president. The Council consists of book col-
lectors, bibliophiles and authors who assist the University
in obtaining rare books and outstanding collections for
o	o
the new Notre Dame Memorial Library.
P. C. REILLY LECTURES STARTED
Dr. Stuart A. Rice, professor of chemistry and direc-
tor of the Institute for the Study of Metals at the Uni-
versity of Chicago, opened the annual P. C. Reilly Lec-
ture Series at Notre Dame with three talks October 5,
7 and 8.
Dr. Rice discussed the “Excited States of Molecular
Solids” at all three sessions.
The annual series of lectures by outstanding chem-
ists and chemical engineers was established in 1945 by a
gift of more than one million dollars from the late Peter
C. Reilly, Indianapolis industrialist and a member of
Notre Dame’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees.
CAPONIGRI IN MADRID
Dr. A. Robert Caponigri, professor of philosophy at
Notre Dame, has been named a visiting professor of
philosophy at the University of Madrid for the 1964-65
academic year.
Caponigri will lecture on American political philos-
ophy at Madrid and will prepare a book on the history
of Spanish thought since the revolution in 1939. His
Modern Catholic Thinkers has been translated into
Spanish and Portuguese.
LOBUND GETS $9,900 GRANT
The Michigan Cancer Foundation of Detroit has
awarded the Lobund Laboratory at the University of
Notre Dame a $9,900 grant to support a program of re-
search on viral leukemia.
The investigations, conducted on germfree animals,
will pay particular attention to the mechanism of the
disease and its prevention, Dr. Morris Pollard, director
of Lobund, reported. The role of endocrinological mecha-
nism in initiating and controlling the disease also will
be studied.
FATHER WARD’S BOOK PUBLISHED
Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., professor emeritus of
philosophy at the University of Notre Dame, has written
a new book, Federal Aid to Private Schools (Newman
Press, Westminster, Md.). Father Ward reports an in-
credibly rapid change in the climate of opinion on this
controversial subject, but states, “the tide of better-
informed opinion at this time is running to the side
of reconsidering the possibility and advisability of some
aid to private schools.”
PRESS PUBLISHES BOOK ON THEOLOGIANS
The lives and work of 12 towering Catholic and Prot-
estant scholars are sketched in Theologians Of Our Time,
a book recently published by the University of Notre
Dame Press.
Edited by Leonhard Reinisch, the volume presents
profiles of Karl Barth, Rudolf Bultmann, Emil Brunner,
Paul Althaus, Paul Tillich, Reinhold Niebuhr, Karl
Adam, Romano Guardini, Heinrich Schlier, Hans Urs
von Balthasar, Yves Congar and Karl Rahner. It in-
cludes a complete bibliography of their books, essays,
articles and pamphlets.
FATHER WALSH WRITES EDUCATION VOLUME
Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., vice president for public
relations and development at the University of Notre
Dame says democracy is “unworkable and even un-
thinkable” unless it is linked with a strong and free
educational system.
Writing in his new book, Education and Political
Power (published by The Center for Applied Research
in Education, Inc., New York), Father Walsh says educa-
tion prepares men “to rule themselves and to share and
participate in governing.” He observes that people in the
new nations of Africa and Asia may not be “educationally
ready” for democracy.
COMPUTING SCIENCE COURSE INTRODUCED
An undergraduate course in computing science, using
the UNIVAC 1107 computer as an integral part of the
(Continued on page 18)
• EDITOR: JOHN H. JANOWSKI
NOTRE DAME VOL. 17, No. 5, WINTER, 1964
Published quarterly by the University of Notre
Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second
class matter May 10, 1928, at Post Office at Notre
Dame, Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.
-
■■■’■Y-' 'SL’i./UVs	■ - ■■ .•.q"- Air! ■ ■_	- ■ ■■ r-r. - P ' T "‘ a
* ’ - .	*	£ tor	? - A. ’	_ .	<4 e 7	\T .	‘C3	o ex r M	X 5U „ $ 50


2 NOTRE DAME
by REX LARDNER
Captain Carroll
Coach Parseghian
For Notre Dame football, 1964 was the year of the
miracle worker — Ara Parseghian. In the course of one
year, Notre Dame went from a dismal 2-7 record to a
position of national prominence. The success of this
year’s team is the result of many things: a competent
group of assistant coaches, headed by John Ray and
Tom Pagna; the development of three All-Americans,
one of whom won the Heisman Trophy; the spirit, pride,
and confidence generated by the entire team; and most
important, Ara Parseghian.
By accepting the position as head football coach at
Notre Dame last December, Parseghian met the greatest
challenge of his coaching career. After signing a four-
year contract the new Irish coach immediately went to
work.
Parseghian brought a few assistant coaches with him
from Northwestern to the Notre Dame campus. He also
hired John Ray as defensive line coach, previously the
head mentor at John Carroll College of Cleveland.
This article appeared originally in the Notre Dame
Scholastic Football Review. Mr. Lardner, a senior from
Great Neck, N.Y., is one of the Sports Editors of the
Scholastic.—Editor.
Coach Parseghian Rekindles
a Fire and the Fighting Irish
Fight Again
In early January, a team meeting was held in which
the coaches were introduced to the squad members and
Parseghian’s philosophy explained. “Football games are
won by teams that are both physically and mentally alert.
We will be at our peak for every game we play this
year.”
Likewise, disciplinary action was taken. Every team
member was to abstain from alcohol and cigarettes 12
months of the year. An honor system was then arranged
in order to enforce the rules. Workouts began the next
day.
By February, a new atmosphere was present — stu-
dents and faculty members thought the possibility of a
winning season might not be a dream. Thoughts became
even more optimistic when the first February pep rally
was staged at the steps of Sorin Hall.
AN ELECTRIFYING MAN
A dynamic, electrifying man was introduced to the
Notre Dame student body for the first time. Parseghian
held the mike and 2,500 students in his hand. A forceful,
persuasive speaker, the new coach promised a “well-
coached, well-conditioned team that would -win football
games.”
When spring practice began, flocks of faithful stu-
dents observed weekly scrimmages. From an analysis of
game films and actual performance in contact work, ad-
justments were made both offensively and defensively.
Still, the Varsity was barely able to beat the Old-Timers
in their traditional game, 30-23.
Sports Illustrated commented unfavorably about
Notre Dame’s football prospects in September. “Ara
Parseghian is an impatient, determined man, convinced
he can return Notre Dame to its position of dominance
in college football, and he undoubtedly will one day —

ILSI
aSKW
4
»»
iikiiTl
JI
I


1964 Notre Dame Fighting Irish

Front Row — (left to right): Joe Farrell, Jim Snowden, John Huarte, Tom Kostelnik’ Paul Costa, Captain Jim Carroll, Ken
Maglicic, Joe Kantor, John Meyer, Dave Humenik, Jack Snow. Second Row — (left to right): Alex (Sandy) Bonvechio, Tony
Carey, Norm Nicola, Dick Dupuis, Vince Mattera, Kevin Hardy, Vince Dennery, Tom Mittelhauser, John Atamian, Tom Harding,
Tom Longo, Jerry Tubinis. Third Row — (left to right): Paul McCarthy, Manager, Don Gmitter, Dan McGinn, Bob Merkle, Alan :
Loboy, Nick Rassas, Bill Zloch, Bill Wolski, Nick Eddy, Pete Duranko, Tom Regner, Pete Andreotti, Harry Long, Dick Arrington,
Mike Fitzgerald, Senior Manager. Fourth Row — (left to right): Alan Page, Bob Papa, Pete Thornton, Denny Conway, Tom
Taloga, Mike Webster, Arunas Vasys, Phil Sheridan, Ken Ivan, Mike Wadsworth, Tom Sullivan, Bob Meeker, Vic Paternostro,
Paul Seiler, Al Frenzel, Manager. Fifth Row — (left to right): Jim Garrison, Hugh O'Malley, John Lium, Larry Conjar, Jim
DiLullo, Jim Lynch, John Horney, Bob Hagerty, Tim Wengierski, Ron Jeziorski, Joe Marisco, Dick Swatland, Dave Zurowski,
Tom Rhoads, John Zenner, Harry Alexander, Ed Zewinski. Sixth Row — (left to right): Joe Smyth, Mike Earley, Tom Klump, Jim
Kelly, Allen Sack, Tim Devine, Larry Mauch, John Reisert, Bill Riley, Jerry Kelly, Fred Schnurr, Jack Meyer, Tim Gorman, Angelo
Schiralli, Dick Sauget, Jim Smith, Mike Krach, Jim Brocke, Dave Odlaug. Back Row —(left to right): Coaches Richard "Doc" Urich,
- Joe Ypnto, George Sefcik, Head Coach Ara Parseghian, Dave Hurd, Tom Pagna, Paul Shoults.
but not in 1964. This year he will hope for the best,
which could be a break-even season.” Yet, the following
months illustrate one of the greatest comebacks in foot-
ball history.
Parseghian came to Notre Dame where recent foot-
ball teams had a losing tradition. The basic problem
was one of morale, teaching beaten players they could
win. Notre Dame failed to produce winning teams since
1958, and her image had suffered. With 16 lettermen
back, Parseghian hoped to start producing, “consistently
winning seasons.”
o
The 1964 Fighting Irish were a self-confident group,
exemplifying pride and enthusiasm in everything they
did. More unity and teamwork was shown in this year’s
squad than in the past three seasons combined.
One of Parseghian’s achievements was the develop-
ment of John Huarte. In September it was thought that
Huarte would be lucky if he received a monogram this
year. As it turned out, he got the Heisman Trophy.
Parseghian instilled confidence and desire into his non-
letterman passer, and Huarte responded superbly: he
completed 114 of 205 passes for 2,062 yards and 16
touchdowns. He also directed the team flawlessly, faked
expertly, and besides the Heisman award, made several
All-America teams.
The Jack Snow Story also has a Parseghian copyright.
Snow was switched from halfback to split-end where he
could make use of his speed, size, and moves. As a result
the All-America end broke almost every pass-catching
record in Notre Dame history, though his 70 career
catches fell one short of the all-time record, held by Joe
Heap.
Captain and linebacker Jim Carroll, Notre Dame’s
third All-American, played offensive and defensive guard
as a sophomore and junior. By an analysis of game films
and Carroll’s overall performance in spring practice, the
Irish captain became a center linebacker. The switch
proved to be worth it. Carroll led the defensive squad
deftly, developed into one of the finest linebackers in the
country, and averaged over 14 tackles a game.
TWO STRONG UNITS
By forming a separate offense and defense, Parseghian
came up with two strong units, one always ready to play.
The two-platoon system fit right into his plans.
Lack of depth at certain key positions hurt the Irish
4 NOTRE DAME
somewhat during the course of the season. The loss of
Jim Lynch at left corner linebacker was a definite weak-
ness in the Pitt game. A shoulder injury to Alan Page
midway through the Southern Cal game considerably
hampered the Notre Dame defense. But overall team
speed, which Parseghian said was poor at the start of
1964, was more than adequate.
On offensive, Coaches Doc Urich and Tom Pagna
helped develop a potent attack. In Phil Sheridan, the
Irish had an excellent tight end; someone big who could
0	5	o
block effectively yet be a threat as a pass receiver.
LINEMEN SUPERB
Interior linemen John Meyer, Jim Snowden, Bob
Meeker, and Norm Nicola gave the Irish excellent inside
blocking. Guards Dick Airington and John Atamian
blocked superlatively downfield as well as on end sweeps.
In the backfield, Eddv and Wolski gave the Irish a
potent inside-outside4 running attack. The two combined
for over 1,000 yards rushing. Fullback Joe Farrell had
his best year, and Joe Kantor was an adequate replace-
ment in the Southern Cal game.
The forward wall of John Ray's defense was com-
posed of four sophomore linemen — Alan Page, Kevin
Hardy, Tom Regner, and Don Gmitter. Though inex-
perienced, the four played like veterans, accounting for
over 200 tackles. Seniors Carroll, Tom Kostelnik and
Ken Maglicic handled the linebacking chores expertly.
Converted end Jim Lynch was outstanding as a sopho-
more, and Aranas Vasys, who replaced Lynch late in the
season, filled in well.
A unit of its own Paul Shoults' defensive secondary
-accounted for 13 interceptions. Unheralded star Nick
Rassas, besides leading the team in punt returns, was
one of the surest tacklers on the team. Tom Longo
played the left cornerback position well, and Tony Carey
developed into one of the finest pass-coverage artists in
the nation. Carey himself finished the season with eight
interceptions.
Besides the dynamic, forceful influence of Parseghian,
the work of his assistants, and the performance of the
team themselves, success in 1964 was also a result of the
psychological build-up for each game.
Stars on the helmets of those defensive players that
intercepted passes was an idea uniquely Parseghian's.
Signs on lockers and bulletin boards helped prepare the
team mentally for each game. Even Parseghian’s own
participation in practice sessions livened spirits and
strengthened the unity of the team.
The "Buzzer System’’ was an added incentive during
practice drills. Daily workouts were planned so that a
player did not have an idle moment. New drills such as
the “50-second count'5 were also instituted by Parseghian.
There were also symbols of the 1964 season — various
"Hate State" and other buttons, pre-midnight pep rallies
on the main quad, and articles concerning the resurgence
of Notre Dame football in national magazines. During
the season, Life, Sports Illustrated, Newsweek, Time, and
The Saturday Evening Post all ran features on the “New
Era of Irish Football.'5
NATIONAL PROMINENCE RESTORED
All of these ingredients were a part of Notre Dame
football this fall. But what was most important was the
team's actual performance -a 9-1 record and a national
rating.
For the quality of ND football, Duffy Daugherty can
speak truthfully: “If there is a better team in the world,
I’d sure hate to play them.'5 Ara Parseghian-—the miracle
worker — ha~> restored Notre Dame football to national
prominence.
'J
THEOLOGY DEPARTMENT
Notre Dame s theology department sponsored two symposia during the
Fall semester, the first on biblical theology and the second entitled,
' Christ and Conscience Today.
On the left, below, Rev. Albert L. Schhtzer, C.S.C., head of the
theology department greets some of the participants: Rev. Roland DeVaux,
O P., director of I Ecole Bibhque in Jerusalem, Dr John Strugnell, assist-
ant professor of the Old Testament at Duke University Divinity School,
Durham, N C , Dr. William F. Albright, professor emeritus of Semitic lan-
guages at Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore; Dr. James B. Pritchard,
professor of religious thought at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia;
SPONSORS TWO SYMPOSIA	:
and Rev. Thomas Barrosse, C S.C , of Holy Cross College, Washmgfon, D.C.	•
In the picture at the right, below. Father Schhtzer talks with: Rev.	.*
Richard McCormick, S.J., Bellarmine School of Theology, North Aurora, III •
Dr. Louis Duprem, associate professor of philosophy at Georgetown Univer-	|
sity, Rev. John Romanides, professor of theology at Holy Cross Orthodox
Seminary, Brookline, Mass. Dr. Mary Calderone, executive director of the	।
Sex Information and Education Council of the USA, and Dr. Paul Heyne,
professor of philosoohy at Valparaiso University. Another speaker, not	1
pictured was Dr. John C. Bennett, pres'den* of Un<on i heological Seminary,	j
New York City.


an opportunity
for service...
by Peter Collins and Cary Shaffer
The Council for the International Lay Apostolate
(GILA) was born on the Notre Dame campus in the
spring semester of 1961. It is a student organization con-
cerned with the role of Catholic university students in
today’s world. It wants to help its members understand
some of the complexities of this worlds some of their
responsibilities; and some of their opportunities. It stands
on the principles of two great encyclicals of Pope John
XXIII: Mater et Magistra, and Pacem in Terris. CILA
believes it can contribute to this end by a program of
education, personal formation, and service. Some of its
service projects are on the campus, some in South Bend,
others in summer work in the United States, in Mexico
and in Peru. This article concerns itself with GILA’s
Peru and Mexico projects of this last summer.
Seventeen Volunteers to Mexico
CILA sent seventeen students to Mexico and all of
us lived in the same town, Tacambaro, and worked on
the same project. Tacambaro is a rural town west of
Mexico City in the mountains, more than a mile high.
It has ten thousand people of all classes. We lived and
ate most of our meals with Mexican middle-class families
during the eight weeks that we were there. At Tacambaro,
the project was coordinated by a young Mexican priest,
who earlier had selected the families for whom we were
to build houses.
When we arrived in town, we were amazed by the
friendliness of all the townspeople. We couldn’t even pass
someone on the street without saying “Buenos dias” to
them. If we didn’t they would just repeat it until we did.
With our problems of communication, people were very
understanding, and this huge reserve of courtesy and
friendliness never failed to touch us deeply.
We worked in a slum area in the town. The town
rests on a shelf on the slope of a small mountain, and
the slum was far down the slope. We planned and built
three duplexes, dividing ourselves into small teams, all
working within a hundred yards of each other. The
houses were built on small lots that were steeply pitched.
Often at the foot of these small lots was the refuse and
dung of several years’ accumulation, a breeding place for
disease. In most instances, miserable tar paper shacks
had to be torn down. To these people who possessed so
This article originally appeared in the Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC. Mr. Col-
lins, a Junior from Sioux City, Iowa, worked in Mexico. Mr. Shaffer, a
Senior from San Marino, California, was in Peru, as was the photographer,
Daniel Scott, a Junior from Jersey City, New Jersey. Many thanks to all
concerned All persons interested in CILA can obtain additional informa-
tion by writing Box 401, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, and since CILA
depends entirely on voluntary contributions, any help you can provide
will be sincerely appreciated—Editor.
-7^;-f.
j	little, even the walls to these shacks were saved for later
|	use. In fact, an old lady who sold mangos built her shack
(	out of the empty lime and cement sacks that remained
I	after each day of work.
|	There was no such thing as a typical workday for us.
However, each day we started work at about nine o’clock,
|	and knocked off for dinner at one-thirty. After dinner
।	we worked from three until dusk, and there were times
when the last of the mortar was virtually used by moon-
'	light. We made stone foundations, and constructed the
I	floors of concrete. The walls were of cinder block, made
from the coarse volcanic sand of the area. The roof was
,	a wooden beam and tar paper combination. We also put
in a basin, a shower and toilet; and also provided a
J	septic tank, running water and electricity.
I	But we had no typical day. When the people of the
slum found out that one of the students was a pre-med
major, he soon spent many of his afternoons looking after
their ailments. Another day, an old woman wanted a bit
of cement, which she didn’t even know the word for,
|	to put over the steep path to her hut. It is indeed difficult
|	to say such sad words, “We can’t,” to such suffering
people.
i	We were, however, constantly exposed to the extremes
n
।
।
Notre Dame's CILA members in Peru last summer were: (Standing L to R),
Keith Boulac, Brian Boulac, Mike Caruso, Bob Lehmann, Charlie O'Hara,
Jim Lynch, and Dan Scott. (Below) Cary Shaffer, John Connor, C.S.C., Tom
Borders, Frank Quinlivan, C.S.C., and Nick Vitalich.

Seven Weeks in Peru
Fourteen of us from the Notre Dame campus traveled
to Peru this summer to work for seven weeks in the
altiplano of the Andes Mountains. We lived wherever
accommodations were available. Our work was so varied
that it is impossible to detail it all here, but a typical
day would begin at Mass in the parish church. Then
there would be helping to prepare and distribute early
morning breakfast of hot milk and hard rolls for the
children, followed by physical education and recreation
program “clinics” in the schools. After lunch came re-
pairing, painting, putting in window glass, landscaping,
electrical wiring, helping in the dispensary, packaging
and distributing viviendas, the foodstuffs sent to Peru
by the U.S. Government and Catholic Relief Services.
Evenings were spent visiting Peruvian homes, conducting
English classes, supervising youth centers, discussion clubs,
and the like. All of our work was done under the direc-
tion of the Carmelite and Maryknoll missionaries. Much
emphasis was put on meeting the people, talking with
them, exchanging ideas, learning about another culture.
There was time for travel and sightseeing, too. After
a plane flight over the rugged mountains, we landed at
ancient Cuzco, once the capital of the great Inca empire.
We made a trip northward from Cuzco through the
Urubamba Valley to the incredible ruins of Machu
Picchu, the famed “Lost City of the Incas.” We explored
the museum, churches, and markets of Lima, the modern
and beautiful capital. We found also that Lima is now
surrounded by barnadas oi' slums. We met and visited
with Peruvian and foreign residents, with the Papal
Nuncio, with the American ambassador, with students
of Mexico during our stay of eight weeks. On many
weekends we went travelling, visiting other places off the
beaten track. We went to a small village in which the
people for the most part couldn’t speak Spanish, and who
had never seen electric lights. We also went to small
provincial cities. We were impressed by the work of the
government; the modern buses and new semis on the
highways, and diesel trains. Mexico, we thought, is a
country conscious of its progress. The extremes of wealth
were best illustrated to me by the fact that the family
I stayed with bought a new 1964 Chevrolet, worth $6,000
in Mexico, while one of the families for whom we built
a house was subsisting on next to nothing so that they
could save $14 for a school uniform for their daughter.
There was the day w’hen we took the picture of our
new homeowners — the father, mother, and a baby
girl 14 months old. They got into their Sunday best for
this picture, and yet how different was their world and
the rich, easv one that we live in the United States!
They, unlike us, w’ould never escape the tar paper shacks
that formed the background to their picture.
When we left the new homeowners, they had only
5 pesos, or forty cents, and enough com flour to last
them until Monday, when the father could work in the
fields. He made eighty cents a day. Such a grinding
poverty is inconceivable until it is seen. Why was his
daily life not our daily life? What inscrutable plan of
God made us students, living in a wealthy country, not
poor hired hands with lives of many heavy crosses? Is
it not perhaps that our lives of many talents cannot
remain jealously kept, but must be shared with others?
We only hope that we were able to return a small part
of all that was given us in Mexico this summer.
and businessmen.
Bob Lehmann,
8 NOTRE DAME

last year’s football captain, writes:

“The main job Tom Borders and I had was to help with
the building of houses in a harriada. This was Padre
Jose’s ‘self-help’ program, involving the parish co-ops
and the credit union. We worked on seven houses, along
with the Peace Corps. The people worked on the rail-
road all day, came home and worked on the houses in
the evening. Sunday was a busy day: about twenty-five
men would join to roof the three-room houses. It took
a lot of manpower; a lot of concrete had to be mixed.
Everyone worked hard, and working with the people was
a wonderful way for Tom and me to get to know them.
We made many good friends . . . and felt very much a
part of the community.”
Frank Quinlivan and Dan Scott worked in Puon,
13,000 feet up in the Andes. Frank writes of his impres-
sions of Lima: “The contrasts of Peru struck me from
the night we landed at Lima International Airport. The
land looked cold and desolate; it was dust. The slums
swept past and out of the night a picture of the Sacred
Heart flashed in and out of view. I felt lonely and a
little afraid, but oddly I felt close to home. There are
the contrasts of the capital city: the slums of Fray
Martin, the great market, full of crowds and noises and
strange smells. There was fish and meat and fruit, chil-
dren playing, swarms of flies, the sounds and smells of
Poverty. And there was dinnei’ in the Crillon Hotel's
Sky Room, high above the city’s lights, where violins
played to us as we looked out over the city, with neon
lights flashing below us.”
I worked in a small, poorly equipped state hospital in
the altiplano town of Sicuani. Sometimes I was given a
ward to take care of, other times I “circulated,” helping
out where I could. The older patients were amazingly
stoic and enduring, reconciled to their most often in-
escapable situation and incurable condition. The children
in the hospital made the place happy. Dominga and
Aurelio, Casiano and Carmencita, each full of fun.
Sophomore Jim Lynch, linebacker on this year’s foot-
ball team, tells about his orphan friends at Sicuani’s
hospital. “Not many kids in Sicuani ever get spoiled.
They have to work too hard, and even very young ones
have jobs to do. One exception was Aurelio. . . . He
had just been dropped off one day at the hospital.
Dominga had been there with big stripes on her back
from beatings, and huge sores on her body from tuber-
culosis. She is a pretty girl, always happy.”
Why did we go? What were we trying to do? The
idea of an exchange, a dialogue, was a dominant reason.
Of course the lure of travel and adventure was present
also, but at the bottom was the understanding that our
group came to Peru not as tourists, but to give ourselves
and to be open to receive. We tried our best to exemplify
the fundamental truths of the Christian fife, as lived
by young Catholic college students: ideas, ideals, con-
victions, practice. In turn, we found that the Latin
Americans had much to teach us.
When we left Peru in August, we hoped for two
things. First, to be able to bring home what we had
learned and begun to understand, in order to share this
with others in our homes and communities, and on the
Notre Dame campus. We believe our own lives have
been deepened and enriched, and that we should be
better Catholics, better neighbors, and better men. Sec-
ond, we hope that some of those wre met and lived with
in Peru will be similarly affected, and will know' that
the “gringo” cares about them. Whatever small material
assistance we could give, we hope will be not only of
some practical value, but also a sign and pledge that
our efforts and interest will continue in future years.
A common note runs through each of our reports: the
discovery of friendship in a new country and in the
middle of a strange culture, and the strong conviction
that when the summer’s work was over, we were the
ones who were the most ben efitted. For all members of
this third Peru project, as for those who took part the
first two years, the story is not ended. There are moun-
tains still to climb.
J
0

K
\\V
?6O0
£
• r
* $
J?
,'i .
w-
— - —.iU^
msssssssgs
*■-, i K-
Of


noo
hr Higher iducaioi
tn
io
tn
I
co
to
by John E. Walsh, C.S.C.
Vice President, Public Relations and Development
The idea that a federal income tax credit should be
granted to those who pay tuitions and fees in both tax-
supported and nontax-supported institutions of higher
education has recently been widely discussed and earn-
estly advanced. The idea has had the backing of leading
citizens., educators, and legislators but it has also en-
countered prominent and powerful opposition. It has
been embodied in various legislative proposals, one of
which, the Ribicoff Amendment (Amendment 329 to
HR 8363), failed to pass in the United States Senate by
only three votes. The future of American higher educa-
tion might very well depend on whether the tuition tax
credit plan is accepted or rejected.
To be understood properly, the tuition tax credit
proposal must be considered in the full light of what it
is and what it seeks to accomplish. Further, there is an
important distinction between the theory of the tax credit
plan and its diverse practical formulations.
In its simplest outlines, the tuition tax credit plan
is one attempt to meet the problem of financing Ameri-
can higher education and of fostering and extending the
American system in which both public and private col-
leges and universities contribute to the nation’s prosperity
and progress. In an era of rapidly rising costs and rapidly
increasing enrollments, how can we best make sure that
the quality of American higher education — both public
and private — remains high and continues to improve?
There is widespread agreement that higher education, as
one of America’s greatest assets and achievements, must
be made stronger and more widely available.
In general, public higher education in this country
has always been regarded as a responsibility of the local
or state governments. It has been, by careful design,
financed through local and state taxation. Private higher
education, on the other hand, has been financed through
a combination of tuitions, private philanthropy, and
contributed services.
Though the principle of local and state autonomy in
higher education has remained sacrosanct, the federal
government has shown in itself in many ways a friend
and ally of higher education. The G.I. Bill, the National
Science Foundation, the National Defense Education
Act, and the many different kinds of research sponsored
by one or the other of the federal agencies at American
colleges and universities, are examples of the ways in
which the federal government has aided higher educa-
tion. However, these actions or measures and others have
raised basic questions about the way in which federal
assistance to higher education determines the directions
and emphases in higher education. They also raise funda-
mental policy questions about the fact that certain fed-
eral programs assist some colleges and universities and
not others. Especially, they raise questions about how
directly involved the federal government should become
in higher education.
The tuition tax credit plan is basically a form of
federal assistance to American higher education. It calls
for a clear recognition of the fact that the federal gov-
ernment is rightfully vitally interested in the quality and
quantity of higher education. But the tuition tax credit
plan seeks to avoid or ameliorate the problem of federal
control of higher education. It seeks to guarantee that
all colleges and universities share to a greater or lesser
degree — or better each in its own way — in the benefits
of federal assistance through a system of tax relief. The
tax credit plan, in short and in essence, grants a federal
income tax credit or exemption to those who make an
important and lasting contribution to the nation’s welfare
through paying the tuitions and fees demanded by higher
education.
All those who pay tuitions and fees in higher educa-
tion would be eligible for a federal income tax credit,
whether these tuitions and fees are paid at public or
private institutions. The program is aimed both at help-
ing colleges and universities meet the soaring costs of
first-quality higher education and at making it possible
for parents, guardians, and friends, to cope with the
necessarily increasing tuition rates in both public and
private colleges and universities. The frequently, but
unfortunately, made assumption that public colleges and
universities do not charge tuitions never was entirely true
and will be much less true in the future.
It will be helpful in seeing the need for a tuition
tax credit plan to cite a particular example, in this case
the University of Notre Dame. Ten years ago the tuition
alone at Notre Dame was $375 a semester. The tuition
for the school year 1964-65 is $700 a semester. In other
words, tuition at Notre Dame has gone up on an average
more than $30 per semester for the last ten years. Al-
though tuition covers only between one-half and two-
12 NOTRE DAME


thirds of the actual cost of educating a young man at
Notre Dame, it is almost inevitable, if Notre Dame is to
remain competitive and to advance and if costs continue
to mount, that tuitions will have to go up still further.
There is, in fact, no reason to think tuition will not go
up as much in the next ten years as it has in the last ten
years. Comparatively speaking, most private and most
public colleges and universities find themselves in the
same situation in which Notre Dame finds itself.
During this same ten-year period, of course, family
income has shown a dramatic rise. It is true that many
families can afford more for higher education now than
they could have ten years ago. But family income has
not, by any means, kept pace with increased educational
costs. The demands for new and expensive facilities to
meet increased enrollments, i.e., libraries, laboratories,
classroom buildings, new curriculums — all aimed at im-
proving the quality of education — have forced educa-
tional costs to exceed far the relative gains in family in-
comes.
The University of Notre Dame merely illustrates the
point. The same skyrocketing of costs prevails generally
throughout higher education. The simple fact is that
parents are falling further and further behind, and will
continue to do so, in their ability to pay the tuitions
required by higher education as it seeks to maintain
quality and to expand enrollment. The tax credit plan
would enable parents, especially at the middle-income
level, better to meet these rising costs.
The tuition tax credit plan is as simple as it is
realistic. On his presenting proof that he had, in fact,
paid tuitions or fees in higher education, the taxpayer
would be allowed a certain prorated percentage of these
tuitions and fees as a tax credit. This would be an actual
tax credit rather than a tax deduction. After determining
the amount of his federal income tax, the taxpayer would
subtract the tuition tax credit to which he is entitled from
his total tax bill. For example, the taxpayer who had a
tax bill of $1,000 and was entitled to a $300 tuition tax
credit would pay $700 in federal income tax.
But in addition to assisting parents to meet higher
education’s rising costs and helping to make it possible
for them to send their college-age boys and girls to col-
leges of their own choice, the tuition tax credit plan has
many other distinct advantages. Principally, it would en-
able colleges and universities to raise their tuitions, in
keeping with their needs and the needs of this nation,
without the fear of pricing themselves beyond the ability
of parents to pay. Secondly, while the federal govern-
ment would be directly assisting American higher edu-
cation, there would be no danger of its controlling it.
Thirdly, although many private colleges and universities
are church-related, it does not appear that a tuition tax
credit plan would violate in any way the constitutional
doctrine of separation of church and state. Fourthly, the
full value of each tax credit dollar would flow directly
and immediately to higher education. Fifthly, the pro-
gram would be comparatively easy to administer and the
federal government would become a genuine partner in
American higher education in that it would give all
colleges and universities an equal chance to share in this
form of federal support.
There are difficulties, to be sure, with the tuition tax
credit plan. Some of its opponents, both individuals and
official groups, are opposed in principle to any form of
federal assistance and they feel that higher education
must work out its own financial problems on a local, state,
or private basis. Others maintain that the plan would
mean too heavy a loss of revenue to the federal govern-
ment. Some hold there are other, and more effective,
forms of federal assistance to higher education; they
think the tuition tax credit plans already proposed would
not, in reality, produce sufficient funds for the needs of
American higher education. Others say the tuition tax
credit plan would open the floodgates to all other special-
interest groups who even now are also seeking tax credit.
And still others hold that such a plan would not help
those who most need help, namely the sons and daughters
of nontaxpaying parents.
However, the proponents of the tuition tax credit	j
plan feel they can forcibly counter these arguments and	j
all others. They point out, for example, that the tuition	j
tax credit plan is not designed for nontaxpaying parents.	*
Other plans and programs might be or must be set up	1
to give assistance to the sons and daughters of those who	j
do not pay taxes. And, in fact, the tuition tax credit plan	j
would, in itself, activate the setting up of various forms	i
of scholarships since the tax credit would not be limited	?
to one’s own children or dependents.	•
Whatever the advantages of the tuition tax credit
plan may be in theory, the practical problem of how	;
much of a tax credit should be allowed remains a per-	<
plexing one. How can a plan be worked out that will be
fair to all? Several different answers have been advanced
and they range all the way from a complete tax credit	j
for tuitions and fees to a credit of a relatively modest
percentage, based on income tax levels. Here again, those
who favor the tuition tax credit plan feel that a reason-
able compromise could be worked out with the help
of the government’s fiscal experts.
The tuition tax credit plan, in one form or another,
is sure to be weighed from every point of view in the
months and years ahead. It is of vital importance that
all citizens be as fully informed as possible about its
merits and its possible disadvantages as they strive to	;
reach a decision. For further information write to: Citi-	f
zens National Committee for Higher Education, Inc.,	;
P.O. Box 1146, South Bend, Indiana.
ND at National Electronics Conference
Three Notre Dame faculty members from the Electrical Engineering De-
partment man a display booth at the recent National Electronics Confer-
ence in Chicago. They are, [I. to r.) Arthur J. Quigley, James L. Mas-
sey, Basil R. Myers and Philip Ryan, a graduate student.
13
cansi^
by DR. MORRIS POLLARD
Professor and Associate Head,
Biology Department; Director
of Lobund Laboratory
There are two types of investigators: one devotes his
energies to the recombination of known facts., by which
he publishes frequently on material of questionable basic
value. The other engages in revolutionary developments
of which the majority are failures; however, the successes
are significant. I refer to the latter type of investigator in
this presentation.
The traditional ivory tower of the academic com-
munity now has windows and doors through which its
insular character has been altered. Students and the com-
munity now have mutual interests in science; but we
wonder if either has been clearly benefited. I have mixed
emotions on the employment of academic scientists as con-
sultants; it is comforting to have the money and the
implied recognition, but it may interfere with programs
requiring intense concentration in a research program.
Increasing numbers of scientists have assumed the role of
consultant, part time or full time, for prestige or for
service. Since it involves money, the motivation has finan-
cial or political implications. We live in a materialistic
society, and scientists find that indifference to its pres-
sures is unrealistic.
ASSUMES PRACTITIONER’S ROLE
When an academician becomes a consultant he as-
sumes the role of a practitioner, and his responsibilities
are more and more that of satisfying the needs of his
clients. I don’t imply an immoral or distasteful connota-
tion to such a situation; but the transition requires a
14 NOTRE DAME
change in basic philosophy. The practitioner in science
represents applied and practical interests. He is often the
antithesis of the theoretician and the experimentalist. He
translates and implements basic science for those who
require solution of pressing problems. Such activities may
thus lead him away from his basic responsibilities, and he
may even become an administrator.
I regret that scientists are being weaned from aca-
demic pursuits to the practical aspects of consultation,
temporary or otherwise. As a result of this transition in
purpose some become politicians — manipulating people
rather than facts. Some cover mediocrity in the cloak of
respectable university appointment, and use both for
personal benefit.
One does not hire a consultant without a present or
impending problem. He may represent a precise scientific
capability, a source of psychological stabilization (a tran-
quilizing effect), or a form of respectability through asso-
ciation. (Consultants maneuver into employment, too.)
Some organizations have a sincere desire for elevation of
scientific standards and practices and seek outside aid to
attain such a commendable goal.
I am opposed to the use of scientists as long-time con-
sultants, when they are intensely involved in programs of
fundamental nature, and when students who depend on
them are deprived of their supervision and guidance.
Outside employment diverts and dilutes their energies,
and they become preoccupied with activities far removed
from their primary interests and needs. Scientists who
seek consultation assignments should recognize the hazards
in flitting from job to job; they become so involved in
organizational problems that they drift away from the
very activity which qualified them for such work. Eventu-
ally they show political inclinations, and practice an
empirical form of science. Such a consultant finds him-
self in the position of an entrepreneur, a middle man,
who neither creates nor executes the programs for which
he is employed. Further, a consultant may have to enter
into a pact of confidence which tends to restrict his intel-
lectual freedom.
EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES COUNT
The universities should assume the responsibilities for
the social and financial satisfactions of its staff, instead of
subsidizing and encouraging outside activities for financial
relief. Too often, university administrators assess the
value of a faculty member by the extent of his extracur-
ricular activities; and if he becomes burdened with as-
signments to impressive-sounding committees, whose
major contributions are frustration and confusion, this
too is considered important to the university.
The employer should recognize that the consultant is
not a substitute for a permanent staff, merely an adjunct
for a special need. He may abuse the privileges of con-
sultation in using him for purposes of improving public
relations or public image, urging representation to agen-
cies for special favor, pressing for a decision or opinion
which the employer finds unpolitic. I doubt that most
administrators, and scientists, know what is wanted in a
consultant; further, what should be the attributes of
a consultant. Certainly they cannot be equated with spe-
cific university background, physique or mannerisms.
Who decides on the qualifications of a consultant and on
what basis is he selected?
OBJECTIVITY IS LOST
Although I here express an unrealistic viewpoint, no
man should be employed as a consultant who needs the
income, otherwise he loses his most valuable attribute,
objectivity. His term of employment should not extend
beyond the completion of the problem. If he has plenty
of time for consultations then he is not much of a sci-
entist. If he merely provides respectable “window dress-
ing” to an organization, and if he deprives himself of
vital work time, then he is deceiving himself and his em-
ployer. Since the employer does not provide the scientist
with working facilities, continuity of support, and retire-
ment benefits, remuneration should be high, thereby
prohibiting also the careless employment of a man for
an indefinite need.
A disturbing development in science is the appearance
of a new breed of research administrator who has had no
experience in research. His basic interest is acquiring and
accounting for large budgets; and surrounding himself
with buffer personnel, regulations, and committees so that
he neither receives nor considers the problems which are
the concern of the scientist. This is related to the use of
consultants whose main contact is with the isolated admin-
istrators, and whose advice may be considerably distorted
before it reaches the individuals who would most benefit
from it. I offer as an extreme example the appointment
of a physician-administrator for a large medical center in
this country. He was in charge of hospital, of teaching,
and of research activities. He never cared for patients,
he never taught a course, and he never engaged in a re-
search program. He maintained a balanced budget in a
sterile institution. He did not know how to recognize
the need for a consultant, nor use one correctly after he
arrived.
INCREASING NEED FOR CONSULTANTS
The trend to ultraspecialization in science has and will
require increasing need for consultants. Scientists do have
an inclination for service, but this should be in modera-
tion. They are in a way a privileged group — endowed
with a specialized intellectual capacity which cannot be
manufactured; and yet not necessarily brilliant in other
matters. Employers do not benefit science by prostituting
its servants, but they can help science and the scientist by
utilizing his services only to the extent of his interest in the
problem. With our complex economy, the employer may
someday find himself employed as a consultant, and an
appreciation of each will yield benefits to all concerned.
What help do research administrators expect from a
university? In discussions held earlier, a fallacy was
exposed. Universities should educate, not train. Profes-
sional schools train and if their graduates were not edu-
cated at an earlier time, then they emerge as technicians.
Most scientists in this country are trained. A man who
stops seeking knowledge, loses it.
The picture I portray is an extreme one and not an
attractive one. I have offered little in the form of a solu-
tion to the dilemmas of consultative practices. If present
trends continue, perhaps the scientific community would
be better off if all such exsanguinating influences were
prohibited.
A GIFT NOW . . .
• permits you liberal tax deduction
• makes you donor and beneficiary
• allows you to see your gift at work
. . . there are many reasons for giving, what-
ever is yours—add a bit of immortality to the list
why not an outright gift to Notre Dame?
Assistant Director Deferred Giving
University of Notre Dame Foundation
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556
15
by Dean Norman R. Gay
College of Engineering
In September 1963, eleven American universities and
institutes of technology, and Educational Services In-
corporated (ESI) formed a Consortium to assist the
Royal Government of Afghanistan in the development
of engineering education at Kabul University. Financial
support is provided under Contract between the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID)
and E.S.I. — which administers the Kabul Afghan-Ameri-
can Program — and Supplementary Agreements between
E.SJ. and the other members of the Consortium. The
University of Notre Dame is one of the Consortium mem-
bers along with Carnegie Institute of Technology, Geor-
gia Institute of Technology, Illinois Institute of Tech-
nology, Lehigh University, North Carolina State of the
University of North Carolina at Raleigh, Purdue Univer-
sity, Rice University, Stevens Institute of Technology,
the University of Cincinnati and Washington University.
Afghanistan is a land of rugged beauty and sharp
contrasts, of desert wastes and lush green valleys, a re-
mote mountainous area of 246,000 square miles (about
the size of Texas) that stretches across the towering
heights of Central Asia. It is bounded on the north by
Soviet Russia, on the east and south by Pakistan, on the
west by Iran, and with the extreme northeastern corner
touching Chinese Sinkiang. The country is dominated
topographically by the lofty snow-capped ranges of the
16 NOTRE DAME
Hindu Kush, an extension of the Himalayas. Mountain-
ous terrain limits access to Kabul, except through sev-
eral passes. East of Kabul, on the much-used road to
Peshawar, Pakistan, some 185 miles distant, one drives
through the scenic Kabul River Gorge, then to Sarobi	\
and Jalalabad and eventually over the famed Khyber
Pass.
Kabul, the capital city, with a population estimated
at 400,000, is a busy thriving metropolis and in eleva-
tion and climate is quite similar to Boulder, Colorado.
As the seat of government, a constitutional monarchy,
Kabul has several imposing buildings which include Par-
liament House, the King’s Palace, various Ministry
buildings and the national University.
Kabul University is the country’s only center of higher
learning. Several European countries such as France and
Germany were instrumental in aiding the University to set
up facilities and programs in law, medicine and the
sciences. Soviet Russia has been pouring aid into the
country in the form of roads, dams, industrial plants and
military assistance and more recently has provided the	|
funds for setting up a Polytechnic Institute. The United	|
States has actively engaged in a direct education assistance	I
effort in agriculture and now more recently in Engi-
neering.
When A.I.D. requested E.S.I. to implement a pro-
gram of Engineering educational assistance, the Car-
negie Institute of Technology and the University of Notre
Dame agreed upon the choice of a Program Director
who is Dr. O. P. Bergelin, formerly a professor of Chemi-
cal Engineering at Texas A. and M. who had previously
spent a number of years in Pakistan. Representatives of
y.g.Wi.uWMWM
At the left, Dean Gay presents a certificate of accomplishment to Afghan-
istan's Habiburahman, who studied at Notre Dame. Above, Dean Gay
and other members of the consortium meet at Georgia Tech to discuss
plans.
the Consortium institutions met for the first time on
February 28, 1963 to discuss the situation and at that
meeting Dr. Norman R. Gay, Dean o[ the College of
Engineering at the University of Notre Dame was elected
Chairman of the Steering Committee for the Kabul
Afghan-American Program.
At the meeting it was agreed that there existed at
Kabul University a need and an opportunity for United
States universities to participate in a development in
engineering education which would be significant in
terms of the national interests of the United States. The
Universities agreed that their role would require several
functions in providing the technical and educational re-
sources necessary for execution of the project, as fol-
lows: 1) to provide the services of about ten U.S. profes-
sors per year over a period of from five to ten years at
Kabul and to provide for Afghan participant training
in the U.S. for selected students and faculty members;
2) to encourage faculty participation in the project, to
look for individuals whose professional competence is
complemented by outstanding personal qualifications for
service on the project, and to treat this participation as
regular faculty service with respect to promotion, salary
increases, etc.; 3) to undertake to make arrangements
for Kabul faculty to obtain “on the job” teacher train-
ing; 4) to participate in meetings and symposia that may
be held from time to time in the United States in con-
nection with the project and 5) to agree to advise about
equipment, teaching methods, library acquisitions, and
related educational matters for Kabul.
The academic year in Afghanistan runs from April
to December with the three months’ vacation being the
winter months of January, February and March instead
of the summer months as they occur in the United States.
Lack of central heating in the buildings makes such an
arrangement necessary although the new Engineering
building on the Kabul University campus, built with U.S.
and counterpart funds, has its own central heating system
and the United States Engineering faculty members use
the winter months to install laboratory equipment, hold
seminars for the Afghan teachers and are planning a
pre-engineering program for high school applicants dur-
ing this period. At the present time, there are eight U.S.
faculty members in Kabul including Professor C. Robert
Egry of the Mechanical Engineering Department of the
University of Notre Dame who went to Afghanistan in
September 1963 and is due to return about December of
The old and the new stand in sharp contrast at Kabul University in Af-
ghanistan. At the left is a typical American house and above is the En-
gineering building of Kabul U. Below is a bazaar scene in the native
quarter of town.
4*	 ’

1964, and Mr. George Janicek also of the Department of
Mechanical Engineering at Notre Dame who went to Af-
ghanistan in September 1964 and will return at the end of
the present academic year. During these same periods,
nine participants have been sent from Afghanistan for
programs at U.S. universities. Two of these students are
studying at the University of Notre Dame. One, Habi-
burahman, studied in the department of Mechanical
Engineering during the past academic year and spent
the summer getting industrial experience by working in
the laboratories of the Deere and Company in Moline,
Illinois. The other, named Frydoon Shairzay, is presently
a student in Notre Dame’s Department of Electrical
Engineering and hopefully both will become members
of the Afghan faculty at Kabul University upon their
return.
MAKE TEN-DAY VISIT
In April 1964, Mr. Gilbert Oakley, vice-president and
managing director of E.S.I. and Dr. Norman R. Gay,
of the University of Notre Dame, made a ten-day visit
to Afghanistan and met with members of the American
and Afghan faculties in the College of Engineering, with
the Chancellor of Kabul University, with the Minister
of Education and other Afghan officials, and with the
United States Ambassador, and the Director of the AID
Mission. During this visit, the progress of the Faculty
of Engineering was reviewed and, with the assistance of
the field staff, a six-year projection for the program was
made.
At the present time, there are 267 students enrolled
in the Faculty of Engineering, divided about equally
between students in the Civil Engineering and Electro-
Mechanical Engineering options. Instruction and text-
books are in English in Engineering but in other Facul-
ties of the University, instruction may be in French or
German or the native language which is Farsi or Pushtu
(closely related to Persian). Since Afghan students
normally study only one foreign language in primary
and secondary schools, students for the Engineering
Faculty must have studied English and, in addition, in-
struction by the Engineering faculty must include mathe-
matics and the basic physical sciences. Graduates of the
program, at least for the present, go principally to the
various government ministries such as those of Public
Works and Mines and Industry. A new single-story
engineering building was completed last winter on the
University campus and equipment for the various labora-
tories has been arriving steadily. The equipment arrives
from the United States by both sea and air shipments.
A TYPICAL STAFF HOUSE
The typical house in Kabul occupied by the Ameri-
can staff is located within a compound enclosed by high
brick walls. Most compounds have a spacious yard, with
shade and fruit trees. It is possible to buy many essential
foods from the bazaars although there is also a com-
missary operated by the American Embassy. Household
servants are commonly used and are paid the Afghan
equivalent of $15 to $35 per month depending on the
type of services rendered. There are International schools
in Kabul at the primary and secondary levels in which
the instruction is excellent. Church services for Catholics
are held in the Italian Embassy.
LEWIS HALL CORNERSTONE BLESSED
Sister Edmond Ann, S.S.N.D., a current graduate student nun al Notre
Dame presents a bouquet of roses to Mrs. Frank J. Lewis, donor of the
Lewis Nun's Residence Hall, during cornerstone blessing ceremonies on
campus November 21 as Father Hesburgh looks on.
NOTRE DAME NEWS
(Continued from page 2)
instruction, was introduced at Notre Dame this fall.
According to Dr. Don Mittleman, director of the
University’s Computing Center, the interdepartmental
course is open to undergraduates from all of Notre
Dame’s colleges with certain prerequisites in mathematics.
It is designed to teach the student how computers can
be used effectively in his major field.
The course consists of two lectures each week plus
one recitation period. The latter is sectioned departmen-
tally so that students may program problems in their
respective fields from the various branches of science
to the humanities.
JOHNSTON ATTENDS CONGRESS
Dr. Herbert L. Johnston, associate professor of phi-
losophy, attended the 12 th World Congress of UNIAPAC,
the International Union of Catholic Employers’ Associa-
tion, in Mexico City in October.
Professor Johnston is a member of the national Board
of Governors of the National Conference of Christian
Employers and Managers, the American affiliate of the
international group.
SMELSER AND McCOLLESTER WRITE BOOK
Dr. Marshall Smelser, professor of history at Notre
Dame, and Charles W. McGollester, editor of the Uni-
versity Press, are the authors of New Frontiers of Free-
dom, a History of the United States Since 1877, which
was published recently by Silver Burdett Co., Morristown,
N.J.
The book is the fourth in a series on “The Quest for
Freedom,” which aims to provide a complete body of
social studies materials for Catholic elementary schools
for grades 5 through 8.
18 NOTRE DAME
BRADLEY ATTENDS MEETING
Francis X. Bradley, Jr., research administrator at the
University attended a conference on “Research Admin-
istration in Colleges and Universities” in Washington,
D.C., in October.
FATHER O’BRIEN WRITES “DIGEST” ARTICLE
The improved relations between Protestants and
Catholics in recent years are “profound” and “without
precedent in almost 2,000 years of Christianity,” accord-
ing to Rev. John A. O’Brien, research professor of
theology at the University of Notre Dame.
Father O’Brien documents the “far-reaching and
even revolutionary” change in attitude in an article,
“New Warmth Between Protestants and Catholics,” in
the October issue of Reader’s Digest. He suggests that
the ecumenical spirit “spills over to the relations of
Christians with Jews.”
“Suspicion, antagonism and hostility are changing to
understanding, good will and brotherhood,” Father
O’Brien writes. He attributes the rapprochement largely
to “the immensely warm personality of Pope John
XXIII” and to the Ecumenical Council, still in session,
which he convened.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS IN TOKYO
Two members of the University’s electrical engineer-
ing faculty participated in the International Conference
on Microwaves, Circuit Theory and Information Theory
in Tokyo in September.
Prof. Basil R. Myers, head of Notre Dame’s electrical
engineering department, presided at a conference session
on “Active Networks” and delivered papers on “Analy-
sis of Flow in Weighted, Directed Graphs” and “Ladder
Realization of Biquadratic Driving-Point Functions.” Dr.
Ruey-wen Liu, associate professor of electrical engineering,
was chairman of a conference session on “Time-Varying
Systems” and presented a paper on “The Self-Sustained
and the Forced Oscillations of Time-Invariant Nonlinear
Networks at Large.”
BURTON GIVES NORTH CAROLINA SEMINARS
Dr. Milton Burton, director of the Radiation Lab-
oratory and professor of chemistry at Notre Dame, con-
ducted a series of seminars in October at colleges in
North Carolina under the visiting-scholar program of the
Piedmont University Center.
Dr. Burton gave six lectures on “Experimental
Studies of Ultra-Fast Reactions” and “Elementary Proc-
esses in Radiation Chemistry.”
NICOLAIDES GIVES SPACE LECTURE
Dr. John D. Nicolaides, head of the newly designated
department of aerospace engineering at the University
of Notre Dame, recently lectured on “A Review of the
Space Program.” The lecture was sponsored by the Notre
Dame chapter of Sigma Xi.
Prior to coming to Notre Dame in September, Dr.
Nicolaides was a special assistant to the associate ad-
ministrator for Space Sciences and Applications of the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)
in Washington, D.C. He also served as technical director
for the Navy Astronautics Program in the Bureau of
Naval Weapons. At Notre Dame, Dr. Nicolaides is teach-
ing courses in missile flight and astro-dynamics.
EASTMAN KODAK GIVES $2,400
Notre Dame has received an unrestricted direct grant
of $2,400 from Eastman Kodak under the company’s aid-
to-education program for 1964.
Notre Dame is one of 62 privately supported colleges
and universities to receive direct grants from the com-
pany this year.
CARDINAL O’HARA LECTURES BEGIN
The Notre Dame College of Business Administration
inaugurated its 1964-65 Cardinal O’Hara Memorial Lec-
tures on October 7 with a symposium on “Poverty in the
United States.”
The speakers included Michael Harrington, sociolo-
gist and author; Rep. John Brademas of Indiana’s Third
Congressional District; and Raymond M. Hilliard, direc-
tor of the Cook County (Ill.) Department of Public Aid.
CANON GABRIEL PUBLISHES BOOK
Rev. A. L. Gabriel, director of The Mediaeval In-
stitute at the University of Notre Dame, has published
a study on Metaphysics in the Curriculum of Studies of
the Mediaeval Universities. The book was edited by the
Thomas Institute of the University of Cologne, Germany.
Father Gabriel returned to the Notre Dame campus
this fall from Harvard University, where he had served
as the Charles Chauncey Stillman Guest Professor of
Roman Catholic Studies for the 1963-64 academic year.
TWEEDELL PRESENTS PAPER
Dr. Kenyon S. Tweedell, associate professor of biology
at Notre Dame, presented a paper at a conference spon-
sored by the New York Academy of Sciences at the Wal-
dorf Astoria Hotel in September.
Dr. Tweedell discussed “The Cytopathology of a
Frog Renal Adenocarcinona Studied in Vitro with Fluo-
rescence Microscopy” at a session on viral diseases of
amphibia. The research for this study was supported by
a grant from the Allen County (Ind.) Cancer Society
of Fort Wayne.
UNIVERSITY JOINS SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM
The University of Notre Dame is one of 30 institu-
tions which will participate in a Latin American Scholar-
ship Program of American Universities. The program is
similar to one initiated in 1960 to aid African students.
The institutions, in cooperation with three Colombian
universities and the Institute Colombian© de Especializa-
cion Tecnica en el Exterior of Bogota, will select and
support with scholarships an experimental group of
Colombian youths for study in the United States begin-
ning in the fall of 1965.
MONTANA HONORED BY ARCHITECTS
Prof. Frank Montana, head of the department of
architecture at Notre Dame, was an honored guest at a
dinner in New York City in October marking the golden
jubilee of the Paris Prize in Architecture.
Prof. Montana in 1936 was the 29th recipient of
the Paris Prize which is awarded annually in a nation-
wide competition sponsored by the National Institute for
Architectural Education. As a Paris Prize fellow, he
studied at the Ecole Nationale des Beaux Arts, receiving
his architect’s diploma from the French government in
1939.
19
•r
.ryside, the
As anuuid
.. ie > ■
• •
Athletic picture at Notre Dame turns from a wonderful football
season to a brand new basketball picture in the antiquated
Notre Dame Fieldhouse.
—rr
£
Since Notre Dame began, more than 120 years ago, the spirit
of sports and physical development has permeated the University
and its men.
The tradition of great teaching — and great learning — is ex-
tended in the athletic arena, as well as the classroom at Notre Dame.
In order to extend this tradition for all Notre Dame men of the fu-
ture, the new Athletic and Convocation Center is an integral part of
the Challenge II program. It will provide headquarters for all sports,
and give students much needed, year-round facilities for every
athletic endeavor.
For additional information on this new building as well as the
other important portions of Notre Dame’s $20,000,000 Challenge II
program please write:
Mr. Edward J. J. Tracey, Jr.
P. 0. Box 436
State College, Pa.



This year, under new head coach Johnny Dee, the Fighting Irish
hoopsters face a formidable array of opponents. But with several
lettermen returning, the Irish could once again start up the path to
greatness in the basketball world.
In other sporting events around the campus in Winter, great
numbers of students engage in the following sports:
Hockey, Handball, Skiing, Fencing, and Volleyball.
And while the hockey players have to content themselves with
unofficial games on the frozen expanse of St. Mary's Lake when the
weather permits, and the handball players sign up days in advance
for a chance to use the overcrowded Rockne Memorial Courts,
the new Athletic and Convocation Center will feature additional
handball courts and an ice-skating arena, the latter to be used
not only for intercollegiate hockey matches, but for general
recreational ice-skating for all students.

The University of Notre Dame Foundation
P. O. Box 555
Notre Dame, Indiana