




>d>l
ft
LAFAYETTE HONORS FATHER HESBURGH
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.,
Notre Dame, received an honorary Doctor
president of
of Laws de-
gree at the annual Founders Day convocation at La-
fayette College, Easton, Pa., on October 26. The degree
was conferred by Dr. K. Roald Bergethon, president of
the Presbyterian institution.


I
J
।
SIX AFRICANS HOLD SCHOLARSHIPS
Six students from African nations are currently en-
rolled at the University of Notre Dame under the African
Scholarship Program of American Universities, according
to Rev. Joseph McGrath, C.S.C., adviser to international
students.
The group includes Thomas Echewa, a junior Chem-
istry major from Nigeria; Samuel Iwobi, a Nigerian soph-
omore majoring in Mechanical Engineering; Eliud
Ndirangu, a sophomore pre-professional student from
Kenya; Callisto Madavo, a junior Liberal Arts student
from Southern Rhodesia; George Padambo, of Nyasa-
land, a freshman pre-Medical student; and Oleseinde
Sawyerr, also a pre-Medical freshman, from Nigeria.
JERGER GIVES SPACE SEMINAR
Dr. Edward W. Jerger, head of the Mechanical Engi-
neering department, presented a seminar on “Sub-Normal
Gravity Effects on Free Convection” in the Space-Science
Seminar at Michigan State University, East Lansing,
Mich.
DEAN BURKE ON PANEL
Dr. William M. Burke, dean of the Freshman Year
of Studies at Notre Dame, was a featured panelist at a
national conference held in October at Williston Academy,
Easthampton, Mass. Representatives of more than 85 col-
leges and universities from 30 states and 35 independent
schools from 20 states attended the conference for fresh-
man deans.
CARDINAL O’HARA LECTURES BEGIN
Two of the four speakers in this year’s annual Cardinal
O’Hara Memorial lecture series in the Notre Dame Col-
lege of Business Administration have made campus ap-
pearances recently.
Professor Richard A. Musgrave of Princeton Univer-
sity spoke on “Federal Tax Reform” on October 10 and
Mason Haire, professor of Psychology and research asso-
ciate of the Institute of Industrial Relations, University
of California, spoke on November 13.
On April 9, Richard N. Gardner, deputy assistant
Secretary of State for International Organization Affairs
will speak and on April 29, Andrew Barr, chief accountant
of the Securities and Exchange Commission, will be
featured.
Dr. Herbert E. Sim, associate professor of Finance
and Business Economics is chairman of the Cardinal
O’Hara Memorial Lecture Committee, which is named
after Notre Dame’s 13th president and first dean of the
College of Business Administration.
CANON GABRIEL LECTURES
Rev. A. L. Gabriel, director of the Mediaeval Insti-
tute at Notre Dame, addressed the staff of Quincy House,
Harvard University, in November on “The Mediaeval
Origin of Modern University Terminology.” Father Ga-
briel is on leave from Notre Dame during the 1963-64
school year to serve as Charles Chauncey Stillman Guest
Professor of Roman Catholic Studies at the Harvard
Divinity School.
Father Gabriel lectured at Regis College, Boston,
Mass., in October on “Academic Freedom at the Mediae-
val Universities.” He is the author of two books and
numerous articles in the field of mediaeval education.
FATHER LANE DIES
Rev. Thomas J. Lane, C.S.C., associate professor of
।	Chemistry at Notre Dame, was found dead in his room
■	in Corby Hall on the campus on September 25. A native
of Merrill. Wisconsin, he was 57.
'	J
Father Lane was a specialist in Inorganic Chemistry
and had been a Notre Dame faculty member since 1951.
i	He was associated with the University’s Radiation Lab-
:	oratory and was currently directing two Chemistry de-
*	partment research projects supported by the National
’	Institute of Health.
I
• EDITOR: JOHN H. JANOWSKI
SIX SENIORS AWARDED NSF GRANTS
Six seniors majoring in Chemical Engineering at Notre
Dame have been awarded National Science Foundation
grants to participate in research programs currently un-
der way in the department of Chemical Engineering.
The recipients are: William K. Blake, Franklin Lakes,
N.J.; John P. Clark, Glenside, Pa.; Charles L. Hemler,
Hanover, Pa.; Edward A. Maciula, Waco, Tex.; David S.
McCaffrey, Bloomfield, N.J.; and Joseph V.- Wig. Mil-
waukee, Wise.
(Continued on page 181
NOTRE DAME VOL. 16, No. 4, WINTER, 1963
Published quarterly by the University of Notre
Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second
class matter May 10, 1928, at Post Office at Notre
Dame, Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.
2 NOTRE DAME

NOTRE
DAMES
by GEORGE N. SHUSTER
When somebody asks, which happens frequently enough, where
the Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society is, I answer,
“In Father Hesburgh’s head and mine.” That would seem to indicate
that the second part of the housing leaves very much to be desired. To
be sure, the answer is not correct in the absolute literal sense. We have
housed one of our major research projects in a building primarily occu-
pied by the University’s mathematicians, and the central office for an-
other project is in New York. Nevertheless the Center as such has no
fixed habitat other than a small office. It is the idea which counts, and
all that is needed is somebody who will take that idea seriously and try
to make a reality of what would otherwise necessarily be just a dream
which ought to come true. Naturally the situation may change. As
you will see, I am later on suggesting the erection of a building to
house one of the most important of the Center’s potential undertakings.
Today the Natural Sciences, the Liberal Arts and the Social Sci-
ences all have two dimensions insofar as the modern university is con-
cerned. The first dimension is that of instruction in both the under-
graduate college and the graduate school. The second dimension is
what I have sometimes called the “area of inquiry.” For example,
most courses offered provide information based on what is known
about part of a given field of study. Thus a professor may teach or-
ganic chemistry, medieval history, or American literature. But though
some instructors (naturally not any at Notre Dame!) may not act as
if they realized it, “what is known” about any of these subjects changes.
The mathematics now taught in college or even in high school is very
different from what it was thirty years ago, for example. Even in the
fields which once seemed relatively static — English literature of the
sixteenth century, for instance — textbooks used in 1933 are now hope-
lessly out of date and as a matter of fact misleading.
THE “AREA OF INQUIRY”
This is because of the “area of inquiry.” University scholars are
constantly at work digging deeper into every kind of reality. Sometimes
the results are revolutionary in the most precise sense of the term. We
live in the kind of world we know because quantum physics superseded
Newtonian physics, because depth psychology has been added to other
kinds of psychology, and because (to take just one more example)
medicine has reduced infant mortality and lengthened the span of life.
Notre Dame as a distinguished university must be and is hard at work
in the “area of inquiry.” Sometimes the effort is that of an individual
scholar, but sometimes also it may be that of a Department either as a

whole or in part. Upon occasion we call the part an “Institute.” The
expectation of course is always and must be that the results will trickle
down and improve the instruction offered at all levels. Life is too short
and education too expensive to justify giving the student anything but
the very best.
The Study of Man in Contemporary Society is an overall designa-
tion for the “area of inquiry” insofar as the Social Sciences and the
Humanities are concerned. It is of course not all-embracing and de-
prives no individual scholar of his freedom. Let us look at the terms.
The “Study of Man” is a phrase which describes what many notable
thinkers about education have said concerning the range of interest in
the university. Man is a creature who both is and ought to be. “HE”
is the one who explodes a bomb in a Birmingham church, is the victim
of that bombing, is the shocked American citizen who reads about the
outrage, and is the native of Rhodesia who forms a picture of the
United States on the basis of what he reads in his newspaper. But
“HE” is also one who should be concerning himself with trying to make
human life, both his own and that of others, nobler, richer, more re-
warding than it is now. Literature in the broadest sense is the record
of man as he really is and has been, but it is also the blueprint of what
he might sometime become if he really so desired.
The university necessarily underlines the word Study. For example,
it is not an institution for the writing of novels, plays and poems, but
rather one which makes an effort to find out what is of value in the
literature so written. Nor is it a vast army of social workers concerned
with improving conditions in urban neighborhoods. Its function in this
respect is to be a place where social workers can be trained in the light
of the best information research can supply about the community, what
is happening in it, and what methods have proved best in dealing with
people. That such study must be contemporary goes without saying,
just as it would be impossible to deny that what is always most contem-
porary is the Society in which we live.
THE STUDY OF CATHOLIC EDUCATION
A Center such as we are now establishing at Notre Dame does not,
of course, accept responsibility for all study that goes on in the Human-
ities and the Social Sciences. It assumes that the Faculty have been
recruited from among men who have done first-rate graduate research
in their fields of interest and who are continuing to keep in the fore-
front of constantly expanding knowledge. No effort is made by it to
guide, control or influence anything done by the scholars so assembled.
What the Center attempts to do is to open up areas of inquiry and to
develop resources with which to make possible work in these areas,
with the thought in mind that as a result wider opportunities will be
made available to Departments. Of course it may also respond to the
requests of individual scholars and so make it easier for them to accom-
plish what they set out to do.
A good example is one of the Center’s most ambitious undertakings
to date, the Study of Catholic Education in the United States. During
more than a year the directors of the Study have been gathering and
sifting data about this important American educational effort. The
result is a vast accumulation of information on the basis of which it
will for the first time be possible to tell the public what the Catholic
elementary and high schools really are like. And as a consequence we
shall also know a great deal more about what still needs to be explored,
as well as have a basis for making attempts at evaluation. Therefore,
we are now able to predict that the Department of Education at Notre
Dame is sure to possess opportunities for teaching and research which
it could not have acquired otherwise. Granted certain definable devel-
opments in financial resources and teaching personnel, the Department
will become second to none in its field.
How was this Study undertaken? First of all, we drew up a pro-
posal in which the objectives sought and the methods to be adopted
(Continued on page 18)
JOHN
FITZGERALD KENNEDY
1917-1963
“On behalf of the students, faculty members and the entire Notre Dame family,
I wish to express to Mrs. Kennedy, to the children and to the entire Kennedy family
our most profound sympathy on the sudden and tragic death of the President.
Two years ago this very day, on November 22, 1961, Notre Dame presented to
Mr. Kennedy, an honorary alumnus of this University, the highest honor within its
power to bestow, The Laetare Medal. At that time the University saluted the Presi-
dent for his ‘calm determination and imaginative courage’ in this age of prolonged
and ever-increasing danger. Today, calmly and with courage, the President met
his death. In the spirit of his religious faith, we pray for the eternal repose of his
soul and for the nation he led and served.’’
REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C.
President, University of Notre Dame
*<
lb
During the past years I have on many
occasions attempted to thank our alumni
for their magnificent participation in our
Challenge Program. I believe there are
few, if any, universities in the country that
have had the alumni loyalty represented
by more than 80participation. Now,
I would like to recognize those other non-
alumni who have contributed mightily to
our success in the campaign just com-

All of these others might be listed as
Notre Dame friends. In this category, we
have many thousands of people, parents,
friends of alumni, and long-standing sup-
porters of the University’s goals. Then
there are the hundreds of corporations
throughout the country, 926 to be exact,
among whom there were two giants who
contributed $100,000 apiece. We should
also mention the foundations, beginning
with the Ford Foundation that has given
over ten million dollars to this University
during the past ten years and gave great
impetus to this past campaign by its match-
ing program, and then all of the others,
such as the Alfred P. Sloan. Jr., Founda-
tion which contributed one million dollars
for Engineering Education, the Carnegie
Corporation which contributed $350,000
for the Catholic Education Study, the con-
tinued support of the Rockefeller Founda-
tion of which I have served as a Board
member during the past two years, and
then the Kresge Foundation, too, which
contributed $100,000. To these must be
added a million-dollar donation from the
Frank J. Lewis Foundation which made
possible the Sisters’ Residence Hall which
will be constructed early next year.
Viewed together, these non-ahunni con-
tributors to the University have been in-
creasing to a point which must attract our
utmost gratitude and confidence for the
future. Put in a column, these non-alumni
sources manifest a very striking generosity
indeed, during the past three years:
Notre Dame Friends—$5,316,446.51
Corporations
Foundations
Total
—$3,660,157.72
—$4,113,473.82
—$13,090,078.05
It would not be proper as we close one
campaign and look forward to Challenge
If if I "did not give special acclaim and,
on your behalf as well as my own, a sincere
word of thanks to all of these Notre Dame
Friends and corporations and foundations
who have manifested by their generosity
how deeply they believe in the goals and
achievements of our University. To all of
these, one might hope that it could be said
that what is past is prologue, and in the
achievement of these years just completed
we may find the indication of a broad
understanding and support of what Notre
Dame stands for in our country and in our
world. We cannot hope to construct here
at Notre Dame the greatest Catholic uni-
versity of all time without the broadest
kind of support from our alumni and
friends. I have put the alumni first be-
cause I believe that the magnificent record
of alumni giving is the solid base upon
which all other giving must be built. Our
alumni are our proudest product, and it
would be fictitious to look for support else-
where if we did not have support from the
closest members of our own family. I
know that all of you would want to join
with me in thanking our friends, new and
old, and in telling all of them that we are
proud to have them associated with us in
this great endeavor.
When all of this is said, I am always left
with the impression that there is much
more that ought to be said, but then how
can one formulate adequate tvords to ex-
press our appreciation for what all of this
generosity has made possible here. Per-
haps the best thanks of all is to tell our
alumni and friends that they are ever wel-
come here, to see for themselves what their
generosity has made possible, and to assure
them that in the Providence of God we
share with them the eternal merit for all
that has been accomplished and will yet
be accomplished over the years to come
because of their interest and their dedica-
tion to this University. To all of our
family and friends then, many, many
thanks and may the good Lord and His
Blessed Mother thank you all in the way
that only They can.
With all best wishes, I am
Ever devotedly in Notre Dame,

matching GIFTS
w
NoWe
to
help YOU
help NOTRE
DAME
(A ci 2()D American companies now ha\e Matthinn Gilt Programs to
.issisi \otie Dame The companies listed will match usually dollar for
dollai \oiu ( onti ibution to Aotie Dame In main instances you do not
ha\c to be a gtadnate in older to be eligible Jot this piogiam.
Some (oinpanies will match gilts made1 b\ membeis of the Board of
Diiedois Plc'.ise consult with these companies il this applies to you.
Ktmherly-Cl
Kingsbury
Lehigh Portl
H. M. Long, I
9
■ill
MX
H
Y
Ji
s
e
*
4
«
sS
w
IDE
X
If
Ek y
t > . । >
l-V.
aSGlSs
A ®1 •
General Foods Corp.
General Foods Limited
General Mills
General Public Utilities Corp.
Georgia-Pacific.Corp.
M. A. Gesner o
Gibbs & Hill
Ginn and Cc
Glidden Co.
B. F. Goodri
W. T. Grant
Gulf Oil Cori
Gulf States
Harris-lntert
Harsco Corp
Hercules Po\
Hewlett-Pac
Hill Acme Cc
Hooker Cher
J. M. Huber
Hughes Aircr
Hussman Rei
Insurance Cc
Internationa
Internationa
Jefferson Mi1
Jewel Tea G
Johnson & F
S. C. Johnso:
Jones & Laui
Kaiser Steel
Kern County
Walter Kidd<
Walter Kidd
Kidder, Peak


Uyiuj
P. Lorillard 1
Lubrizol Co
Lummus Co.
Lustra Plastics Cor|
M & T Chemicals I
Mallinckrodt Chemical Work:
P. R. Mallory & Co., Inc.
Manufacturers Hanover Trust
Marine Midland Trust Co. of N. Y.
Matalen
Maytag C
McCormick & Co., Inc
McGraw-Hill Publishing Co.
Medusa Portland Cement Co.
Mellon Nat. Bank and Trust Co.
Merck & Co., Inc.
Middlesex Mutual A
Midland-Ross Corp.
Miehle-Goss-Dexter, Inc.
Monticello Life Ins. Co.
Morgan Engineering Co.
Mutual Boiler and Machinery I
National Cash Register
p
National Distillers and Chemical Corp.
National Lead Co.
Natural Gas Pipeline Co. of America
New England Gas/Electric Assoc. Syst
New England Merchants Nat. Bank
New England Mutual Life Ins. Co.
New York Trap Rock Corp
rthrop Corp
rton Co., Mass.
twiGg



cl--,.
1.*».	;S1i. :	.S)
These corporations will match both cash payments on pledges or out-
right gifts, if you notify them that such a donation has been made. This
is done by completing a brief form provided by your employer and mailing
the entire form with your check. Notre Dame then certifies receipt of the
gift and returns the form to your company. The company will then remit
the proper amount to the University.
If you have already made a gift in 1963 and did not notify your com-
pany, check to see if the gift will be matched.
Remember, you are the reason for these matching gift programs. Your
employer is offering support to Notre Dame in recognition of the contribu-
tion you, as an educated person, are making to your company.
Detailed information on your company's plan may be
obtained by consulting with the Personnel Dept, or
writing:
Mr. Dennis F. Troester
Foundation Office
Notre Dame, Indiana

Simmons Co., N. Y. ‘
Simonds Saw and Steel Co.
Sinclair Oil Corp.
Singer Manufacturing Co.
Smith Kline & French Laboratories
Smith-Lee Co., Inc., N. Y
Sperry & Hutchinson Co.







w.
SYBURG
A BALANCED PROGRAM
it
In
Dame
by FREDERIC
August, 1963, the University Theatre of Notre
climaxed nine years of growth and development


by presenting three productions at the National Catholic
Theatre Conference convention in Miami Beach, Florida.
Rev. Gabriel Stapleton, SDS, general chairman of the
convention and former president of the conference, had
invited Notre Dame to participate in recognition of the
Theatre’s achievements and the quality of Notre Dame
productions. Two plays were presented for the conven-
tion audience at the Deauville Hotel: Eugene O’Neill’s
Long Day's Journey Into Night and Edward Albee’s
The Zoo Story. In addition, the two-hour videotape re-
cording of Shakespeare's Hamlet which had been pro-
duced by University Theatre in conjunction with WNDU-
TV was broadcast over Miami television station WLBW
during the convention. With these presentations came
national recognition of the dedicated efforts of the
Theatre staff and the many Notre Dame students who
have worked so hard to achieve the high quality char-
acteristic of University Theatre productions.
The University Theatre was organized under its pres-
ent director, Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C., in 1953. At
that time Father Harvey put into effect a plan which
he had prepared in the course of a year’s consultation
and study before he was named to head the Theatre.
This plan viewed the Theatre both as a training ground
for students interested in the theatre arts and as a me-
dium of cultural education for the University and the
community. Although not a professional school of drama,
the University Theatre has attempted to maintain the
highest possible professional standards in production and
both staff and students have been expected to live up to
these standards.

For the University as a whole and for the commu-
nity the Theatre has tried to present a balanced program
of classical and modern plays and musicals. Within each
student “generation” of four years the major periods of
dramatic activity have been represented. Plays have been
chosen for theh’ historical importance and literary merit
rather than primarily for box-office popularity. Not that
the plays have been unsuccessful at the Washington Hall
box office.
Broadway successes such as Death of a Salesman and
Detective Story, Oklahoma! and South Pacific have
been presented along with Hamlet and Othello. Shake-
9
Hank Whittemore (Billy) and Richard Kav-
anaugh (Captain Vere) in a scene from
the ’62-’63 production of Billy Budd.
"When I take you out in the surrey" —
Dan Ferrone (Curly) sings to Ann Rody
(Laurie) in Oklahoma!
Marilyn Petroff (The Girl) and Richard
Kavanaugh (The Narrator) singing and
dancing in the musical, The Fantasticks.
“Honey Bun" Myrna Walker as Ensig
Nellie Forbush in the highly successfi
production of South Pacific.
speare and Shaw, Ben Jonson and T. S. Eliot have all
been represented in University Theatre productions and
the audience has responded and grown in size with each
succeeding year. The plays were originally performed
on four nights; now each production is given at least
seven performances and in some cases more — South
Pacific was presented ten times. Season ticket sales have
trebled in ten years and student attendance has more
than doubled.
DEDICATION AND HARD WORK
What is behind this growth? Mostly dedication and
hard work which have produced results in the form of
polished productions. Father Harvey believes that theatre
work deserves to be treated seriously and to be given the
best efforts of students and staff. Hard work is the key-
note; each production is rehearsed for six weeks (musi-
cals for seven) and the weekly rehearsal schedule calls
for five evenings and Sunday afternoon. Thus each pro-
duction is the result of over one hundred hours of prep-
aration in rehearsal plus the work done in set construc-
tion, costuming and lighting.
Along with the hard work, of course, there is the
excitement which always accompanies theatrical produc-
tion. For the theatre staff this excitement often comes
from the discovery and encouragement of talented stu-
Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C. (left)
has been director of the
University Theatre since 1953, and
has compiled a long list
of successful productions.
Frederic W. Syburg (right) is an
assistant professor at the University
of Notre Dame and assistant director
of the University Theatre.
dents. University Theatre alumni have gone on to a
variety of careers connected with theatre. Some have
chosen the professional theatre; among those who have
appeared in professional productions in New York are
Dan Ferrone, Jerry Dodge, Tom Karaty, and Hank
Whittemore. Ferrone, Dodge and Whittemore have also
been seen on network television from New York. Two
students — Michael Kennedy and Richard Kavanaugh
— received Fulbright awards for study at the London
Academy of Music and Dramatic Art. Other students
have gone on for graduate work in drama at such schools
as Yale University, Catholic University of America,
Tulane University, and the University of Arizona. Reg-
inald Bain, William Clark and John Kent entered the
field of educational theatre.
For most of the students who work on University
Theatre productions, of course, theatre is a stimulating
extracurricular activity. Here they can exercise talents
which complement and enhance their academic achieve-
ments. Here, in a practical way, they make contact with
some of the major examples of dramatic art. Here they
learn the cooperation and teamwork so necessary for good
ensemble theatrical production. Here they feel that thrill
and excitement that go with actual performance: the
tension in the Green Room before the opening, that first
entrance, the response of the audience, the release of
tension and the gayety backstage after the final curtain
call. For these students, theatre is an important and
worthwhile segment of their university life.
REUNION PLANNED FOR JUNE
When the theatre reunion commemorating these ten
years takes place next June, there will be many memories
of plays and individual performances. The “old-timers”
will remember that first season when the theatre, oper-
ating in inadequate shop space and with a minimum of
lighting equipment, opened the season with Detective
Story, a production which made a bare $36.00 over op-
erating expenses. They will also remember the moving
performance by Gene Gorski, now Rev. Eugene Gorski,
C.S.G., as Cyrano de Bergerac, and the performances by
Gayle Baumer in leading roles in all three of those first-
year productions.
A university theatre often depends on a “fortuitous
find”: a student who shows up for his first tryout and
proves to be just right for a major role. Such a find was
Bob Sasseen, who walked into Washington Hall a stranger
but remained to become an unforgettable Captain Queeg
in The Caine Mutiny Court-Martial, the hit of the 1955-
10 NOTRE DAME
with
FULL ORCHESTRA USED
Michael Kennedy as Macbeth. His work
in Shakespeare earned him a Fulbright
award to study acting in London.
Robert Sasseen on the witness stand as
Captain Queeg in The Caine Mutiny Court-
Martial.
show-
Two”
56 season. Also memorable that year was Sue Brown, the
little girl with the big voice, who sang about “Glocca
Morra” in Finian’s Rainbow. 1956-57 will be remem-
bered as a year of great tragedy — Arthur Miller’s Death
of a Salesman, with George O’Donnell as Willy and Phil
Donahue as Biff, and Shakespeare’s Macbeth
Michael Kennedy playing the title role.
But also, no one will forget Dave Shanahan’s
stopping song-and-dance routine with “Five Foot
in Good News. The high point of the following season
was the production of Rodgers’ and Hammerstein’s
Oklahoma! For the first time a full orchestra was used,
conducted by Dr. Charles Biondo of the music depart-
ment. Dan Ferrone as Curly, Ann Rody as Laurie, and
Barbara Benford as Ado Annie gave outstanding per-
formances. There were more of those “fortuitous finds”
during the season of 1958-59. Freshman Joe Harrington
got the coveted role of Johnny Pope, the narcotics addict
in A Hatful of Rain and Father Peter Sweisgood, O.S.B.,
a graduate student in the department of philosophy, gave
a powerful and dignified performance as Thomas a
Becket in T. S. Eliot’s Murder in the Cathedral.
For some theatre alumni the high point of the 1959-60
season will be the “tour” to Chicago where Jean Gir-
Below, top—Angela Schreiber (Mary Tyrone), Richard Kavanaugh (Edmund
Tyrone), Hank Whittemore (Jamie Tyrone) and James Cooney (James
Tyrone) in the final scene of Eugene O'Neill’s Long Day's Journey Into
Night.
Below, bottom—The duel scene from Hamlet. The production in 1962 was
staged in Washington Hall and also televised over WNDU-TV.
Production List
1954-55
Detective Story by Sidney Kingsley
Cyrano de Bergerac by Edmond Rostand
Seventeen by Sally Benson, Kim Gannon, and Walter
Kent
1955-56
The Alchemist by Ben Jonson
The Caine Mutiny Court-Martial by Herman Wouk
Tinian’s Rainbow by E. Y. Harburg
1956-57
Death of a Salesman by Arthur Miller
Macbeth by William Shakespeare
Good News by Laurence Schwab, B. G. DeSylva, Lew
Brown and Ray Henderson
1957-58
Time Limit by Henry Denker and Ralph Berkey
The Importance of Being Earnest by Oscar Wilde
Oklahoma! by Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammer-
stein
1958-59
A Hatful of Rain by Michael Gazzo
Murder in the Cathedral by T. S. Eliot
The Boy Friend by Sandy Wilson
1959-60
andoux’s Tiger at the Gates was performed at the Eighth
Street Theatre, sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of
Chicago. For others the highlight will be the big musical
— The Most Happy Fella — with its 46 musical num-
bers. 1960-61 was marked by the production of Shake-
speare’s Othello. Richard Kavanaugh gave a stunning
performance as Iago and James Loula, a member of the
football squad, displayed a magnificent voice and great
physical power as Othello. Unquestionably, most mem-
ories of the 1961-62 season will cluster around South
Pacific. The Theatre’s outstanding box-office success, it
has given a total of ten performances to near-capacity
houses. Myra Walker, a St. Mary’s student, had played
leading roles in two previous Notre Dame musicals as
well as in two musicals at St. Mary’s, but she topped
them all with her performance as Nellie Forbush and her
unforgettable rendition of such songs as “I’m in Love
with a Wonderful Guy” and “Honey Bun.”
MOST OUTSTANDING ACTOR
Richard Kavanaugh is probably the most outstanding
actor to have worked with University Theatre during the
past ten years. In 1962-63 Kavanaugh played four major
roles which demonstrated his versatility as well as his
maturing talent. The most demanding of these roles, of
course, was Hamlet. No one produces Hamlet without
some qualms, for to do this most famous of all plays is
to announce that your theatre has arrived. Over a year
of preparation went into the Notre Dame production.
Father Harvey had dreamed for a long time about doing
this play and all the creative effort and talent available
was utilized in the production. In addition to directing
the play for the stage, Father kept in mind the prepara-
tion of the play for a telecast.
The Hasty Heart by John Patrick
Tiger at the Gates by Jean Girandoux
The Most Happy Fella by Frank Loesser
1960-61
Holiday by Philip Barry’
Othello by William Shakespeare
Babes in Army by Richard Rodgers and Lorenz Hart
1961-62
The Cocktail Party by T. S. Eliot
Arms and the Man by Bernard Shaw
South Pacific by Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammer-
stein
1962-63
Hamlet by William Shakespeare
Billy Budd by Louis O. Coxe and Robert Chapman
Long Day’s Journey Into Night by Eugene O’Neill
The Fantasticks by Harvey Schmidt and Tom Jones
1963-64
The Visit by Friedrich Duerrenmatt
Tartuffe by Moliere
The Caretaker by Harold Pinter
The Threepenny Opera by Bert Brecht and Kurt Weill
The versatile Richard Kavanaugh, playing a character role as Ma|or Pet-
koff, in a scene with Peggie Hess (Louka) in G. B. Shaw's Arms and the
Man, presented in the 1961-62 season.
Working with the staff of WNDU-TV and with Dr.
Terence Spencer of the English department, who was to
be the television director, Father Harvey brought into
being a production which was not only effective on stage
but also could be televised without loss of dramatic power.
The Theatre performances were highly acclaimed and the
telecast proved very successful — a 16 mm film of the
telecast has been rented many times by high school and
college groups. The performance of Richard Kavanaugh
in the title role was praised for its youthful vigor as well
as its sensitivity. Kavanaugh’s other roles that season
were Captain Vere in Billy Budd, Edmund Tyrone in
Long Day’s Journey Into Night, and the Narrator in
The Fantasticks. There were other memorable perform-
ances that year, notably Hank Whittemore as Billy Budd,
and James Cooney as James Tyrone in Long Day’s Jour-
ney Into Night.
FOUR PRODUCTIONS THIS YEAR
The 1963-64 season promises to be a successful cul-
mination of Father Harvey’s first ten years as director
of University Theatre. The schedule calls for productions
of The Visit, by Friedrich Duerrenmatt, Moliere’s Tar-
tujje, The Caretaker by Harold Pinter, and The Three-
penny Opera by Bert Brecht and Kurt Weill.
Future plans include more television presentations
and further experimental productions. Plays on the list
for future production include King Lear, A Man for All
Seasons, and My Fair Lady.
The hotel room scene from Arthur Miller's
Death of a Salesman George O'Donnell
(Willy Loman, right) pleads with Phil
Donahue (Biff Loman) for understanding.
Joseph Harrington (Johnny Pope) tells Lee Lagessie (John Pope, Sr.) that
he is a narcotics addict in a climactic scene from A Hatful of Rain. Betsy
Finneran (Celia) and James Cooney (Polo) look on in sympathy.

Reflections
an
by REV. JOHN E.
WALSH,
Relations and
Development
'1



Vice-President, Public
Whatever their intrinsic worth, several recent develop-
ments and tendencies in American life have forced the
colleges and universities in this country to some serious
soul-searching. This reappraisal, however agonizing, is
all to the good for higher education in our time. It is
long overdue.
I am not referring simply to such obvious, though
ominous, developments as the “tidal wave” of enrollment
projected to hit the colleges and universities in the 1970’s
and to keep pounding at the shores for the indefinite
future. Quite clearly the task of financing higher educa-
tion in the coming decades will be monumental. Neither
am I thinking, for example, of the various forms of
cooperation between and among colleges and universi-
ties that are already far-reaching enough in some cases
to be changing the concept of the self-contained adminis-
trative unit formerly called a college or university.
Rather, I am thinking about such developments as
the following:
1.	It used to be taken for granted that one of the
reasons for a student’s going to college or a university
was that it would help him later to make more money.
Few were ever quite this blunt about it, but most worked
on this assumption. The typical college graduate will
still make more money during his lifetime than the man
without a college degree. There are many positions and
careers open only to college graduates. But the gap, the
differential, between what a college graduate makes and
is able to keep and what, for example, an electrician or
a truck driver makes and is able to keep, is rapidly
diminishing. Making money as a reason for going to
college is losing its appeal.
2.	Many used to consider the college or university
was in some ways a private club or even a fairly close-
knit family unit. The years of study were akin to the
initiation or apprenticeship and the years that followed
were filled with happy memories., friendly relationships,
mutual business-assistance pacts, and a high degree of
social prestige. In a friendly, gregarious, and mobile
society such as that of present-day America the typical
person finds all kinds of associations, other than college
ones, which necessarily occupy his time and are adequate
to him.
3.	It used to be thought by some that the college or
university owed it to its students, alumni, faculty mem-
bers and the public at large to provide recreational and
entertainment thrillers in the form of public sports spec-
taculars. The rise of professional baseball, basketball,
football, and almost every form of organized sport has
brought this proposition into serious question.
4.	It used to be thought that the young man or
woman went “off or away” to college and university.
This was his first real break with the family and going
to college was a way of “growing up.” Now the situa-
tion is quite different. On the one hand, boys and girls
do a lot of traveling, they see many things, and they
get used to life away from home long before college age.
On the other hand, more and more students are getting
their higher education in their own home cities while
they continue to live at home.
5.	It used to be thought that a man went to college
or university to acquire the skills and techniques necessary
in the business and professional world. It has lately been
discovered that these skills and techniques are even more
14 NOTRE DAME
effectively mastered “on the job.” The whole new
development on the American scene of business and
profession-sponsored training and educational programs,
orientation courses, and executive seminars has changed
the thinking about the college and university’s responsi-
bility for skills and techniques.
6.	Finally, it used to be held that one of the main
purposes of a college or university was to supply the
leadership for the nation. It is now quite clearly recog-
nized that there are many other avenues to leadership
positions and that there aie many other ways of acquiring
leadership abilities. Furthermore, if, as anticipated, larger
and larger numbers of students continue on into higher
education, it is certain that not all of them can be leaders.
These developments and others that could be men-
tioned have served a much-needed and valuable end.
They have forced and are forcing educators to take a
new look at higher education with a view toward more
sharply defining its genuine and essential purposes and
finding ways of moving toward accomplishing them. No
longer is it possible to escape the hard questions and no
longer is it possible to justify or sell higher education,
either within the academic world itself or before the
constituencies from which we seek moral and financial
support, on grounds that are nonessential, if not altogether
spurious and dishonest.
WHAT ARE THE PURPOSES?
This leads us to the question: what are the purposes
of higher education and how do we put the case for
higher education convincingly before the American and
the world public?
I hope I will not appear facetious when I say it is
becoming clear at long last that the purpose of the college
and the university is to provide a good education. And
may I also add I suspect we’re getting closer to the time,
though it may still be somewhat distant, when alumni
and friends will support higher education for the right
reasons.
Let me attempt to state what I consider the purposes
of higher education. This analysis is submitted for your
consideration. Some may agree with it; others will find
it useful in furthering their own thinking.
First of all, it should be perfectly obvious that higher
education is distinctively different from elementary and
secondary education. It is not just more of the same.
Though it is clearly dependent on these and must be
closely articulated with them, it has its own principles
and its own purposes. If we roughly characterize ele-
mentary education as that which provides the introduc-
tion to learning and the rudiments of it — the ability
to read well, to write well, to figure or calculate well,
and, if we characterize secondary education as that which
provides general knowledge or cultural or liberal educa-
tion, then how do we characterize formal higher educa-
tion?
What is the unique purpose of higher education?
I am using the term “higher education” here to refer to
that education which in this country typically begins
with what we call “the major” and extends through
the Ph.D. or first professional degree. As you know, our
system of higher education in this country is different
from that found in any other part of the world. Some
of what we call higher education is really a part of sec-
ondary education.
MUST BE BASED ON LIBERAL EDUCATION
I can’t emphasize enough that higher education must
be based on a solid and meaningful general or liberal
education. Personally, I prefer to think of liberal edu-
cation as preceding higher education both logically and
chronologically, though I’m willing to admit a good case
can be made for holding that liberal or general education
and specialized education could well take place simul-
taneously. It is during the period of his secondary edu-
cation rather than that of his higher education that a
student encounters and comes to grips with philosophy
and theology, with the humanities, the arts and sciences,
and in which he develops an appreciation and under-
standing of the fine arts. Secondary education is the
work of what we call “natural intelligence” or what the
Greeks called Paideia culture. Higher education is the
work of intellectual virtue or what the Greeks called
arete, that which makes a thing to be most perfect or
excellent in its class.
The unique purpose of higher education is to make
it possible for the student to acquire a mastery of a speci-
fied area of knowledge. Higher education really means
deeper education. It means coming to know some sub-
ject matter or discipline thoroughly and profoundly, or,
as the students say “backwards and forwards.” Our
students give one of our faculty members credit for
knowing his subject backwards and forwards, but they
claim he insists on teaching it backwards. Higher edu-
cation means a familiarity with and a grasp of the dis-
cipline principles, its relationships with other disciplines,
its organization and its methods, and eventually it means
pushing back still further the frontiers and horizons of
this particular discipline.
DEFECTIVE WITHOUT TOTALITY
Higher education is concerned primarily with the
forming, developing, and perfecting of man’s mind —
it is a work of our intellect — but it is also concerned,
as is all education, with the moral and spiritual dimen-
sions of human life. Man is not pure mind; indeed he
is heart and soul as well. Any education, including
higher education, which takes place without reference
to the unity in man of mind and heart, body and soul,
— without reference to his totality as a human person,
without reference to man’s dignity, his freedom, and his
place in the world of God’s creation — is defective.
I think, too, that higher education should be mostly
a matter of coming to see and to understand. It is de-
scriptive and speculative rather than practical. Its func-
tion is not primarily one of doing or of making it pos-
sible to get things done. That may or may not come
later. This is just another way of saying that the college
or university is genuinely and properly the “home of
theory.” You may recall that among the Greeks of
classical times the theoroi were the persons sent out from
15
Recent development on the Notre Dame campus is illustrated by this latest aerial photo. Built within the past two years are Stepan Center (1), the
Memorial Library (2), the Radiation Research Building (3) and the Computing Center and Mathematics Building (4). Other campus landmarks include
Drlion and Alumni Halls (5) and (6), Sacred Heart Church and the Administration Building (7) and (8). At the entrance to the University is the Morris
Inn (9), with the Law School {10) and the Engineering Building (11) east of the circle.
the city-state to observe and to study how other people
lived and thought. Our modern word theory, as con-
trasted with practice, implies the effort to get at the
principles, the causes and reasons of things. Higher edu-
cation is not at all exclusively informational. It seeks to
find why things are as they are and why and how they
could or should be different.
Higher education, properly conceived has both a
personal and a social aspect. As far as the student him-
self is concerned, he is engaged in the pursuit of knowl-
edge as a means of perfecting and fulfilling himself. He
is more fully human, more properly a man, to the extent
he knows more, for man is essentially distinguished from
other forms of life precisely by his rational and spiritual
powers. The perfecting of man depends on the perfecting
of his reason. This perfecting takes place both in breadth
and depth. Granted, as was said before, that higher
education must be based on the possession of a good
general or liberal education, then higher education is the
only way possible in our day for a man to continue to
perfect himself in knowledge.
So vast and complex has knowledge become that no
man can now hope to be a “universal” man, knowing
all there is to know. Unless he is to spend his life as a
dilettante, he must move into some fairly restricted area
of knowledge and make it his own. Higher education
protects us against what might be called “the superficial
man.”
On the social side, higher education gives birth to
those ideas and movements which most profoundly affect
the life of society. Though the university is the home
of theory, there is a constant interchange between theory
and practice. The processes of evaluation and criticism
provided by higher education are not only inescapable —
they are essential for the vitality and strength of both
higher education and society. The confirmation of old
ideas and the coming to life of new ideas are further
direct correlatives of the interplay between higher edu-
cation and society.
Higher education produces for society the man of
knowledge — the man of deep, genuine and sure knowl-
edge. And no society can long exist without such
knowledge and without such men. It also produces
thoughtful, alert, cooperative citizens who realize the
importance of ideas and knowledge in the life of society.
Some of these men may become the leaders of society;
others will not. But society will be stronger and more
secure by reason of the fact that both the leaders and
the led have had a gjood higher education.
Now, if all of this is true, what does it mean for
alumni directors and development officers and their
important work in the years ahead? I am as convinced
as you are that the support of a particular college or
university by alumni and friends is not just a matter of
logic and conviction. It is often a matter of emotion and
affection, and this is perfectly proper and to be expected.
The motives which prompt either an alumnus or a friend
to interest himself in a college or university, to work
for it, and to support it financially, are often obscure,
subtle, and even darkly hidden from the man himself.
But insofar as logic does enter into the question of
assistance and support, it is the logic of realizing that a
particular college or university is doing well what higher
education should be doing. Even many who have finished
colleges and universities do not realize what higher edu-
cation is all about. They are pleased with the experiences
they had in colleges or universities and they know how
much their higher education has meant to them, but
they do not realize fully or sharply the inner nature and
commitment of higher education. They have a vague
realization of the importance of higher education but
they have not analyzed its proper claim to their support.
They have not contemplated, for example, the life of a
society in which there would be no formal higher educa-
tion. Such a society would soon shrivel up and dry out
because its wellsprings of knowledge had been closed.
Higher education performs a noble and crucially im-
portant service to the individual and to society. If we
are to expect the support of alumni and friends, we must
represent this service to them as it truly is. In speaking
for higher education or for a particular college or uni-
versity, we are not, obviously, selling a tangible com-
modity; we are not appealing to the health and cure of
the body as a hospital or a heart fund might; we are not
16
NOTRE DAME
talking of social or financial advantage as a country club
mightj we are not enlisting aid for the training and
disciplining of students as an army camp might; we are
not running colleges and universities to keep the boys
off the streets, or off the labor market, or even out of
the clutches of the Communists; we are not even ap-
pealing to alumni and benefactors on the basis of the
beauty of the campus and the ties of sentiment. Rather,
we are suggesting that higher education has a distinctive
life of its own which in our day is essential to the per-
fecting of man and society. Our best case for higher
education comes from our own understanding of this
life and mission. In the final analysis, the best case for
higher education is good higher education.
And finally, what is to be said of the Catholic college
or university?
Recently in reading a novel, I came across what I
consider to be the best possible statement of the case for
a secular university:
J
Professor Smith clasped his hands and gazed up-
ward in a posture curiously reminiscent of the con-
ventional attitude of prayer. “This is a great Uni-
versity,” he said quietly. “One of the greatest. And
to me a great university is nothing less than the
noblest achievement of man. I do not happen to
believe in the existence of God. There may be a
God, but if there is, He has never chosen to reveal
Himself to me. In the absence of such revelation, I
have no choice but to believe that man is alone in
the universe — or at least in this very tiny corner
of it. I believe that whether or not man is to edure,
and if so, under what conditions, is in his own hands.
And I believe that the knowledge with which man
must face this challenge is discovered and disseminated
primarily by the company of scholars — the citizenry
of the few great universities.”
The case for a Catholic college or university is, of
course, fundamentally different. We do believe in God
and in His Revelation. We do not believe that man
stands alone. To us the building of a great secular uni-
versity, whatever its contributions and accomplishments,
rings strangely hollow. But if the building of a great
university is the noblest achievement of secular man, how
much more true is it that the building of a great uni-
versity is the noblest achievement and the finest flowering
of Catholic man and his Church.
PROFESSOR KENNEDY APPOINTED CHAIRMAN
The appointment of Professor John Joseph Kennedy
as chairman of the Department of Government and Inter-
national Studies at the University of Notre Dame was
announced recently by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh,
C.S.G., University president.
Kennedy, a Latin-American specialist who taught at
Notre Dame from 1951 to 1959, returns to the campus
from his current post as professor of foreign affairs at
the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va. His ap-
pointment is effective July 1, 1964.
Currently, Dr. Stephen Kertesz is acting head of the
Department of Government and International Studies at
the University.
Father Hesburgh also announced that Kennedy will
become director of the interdepartmental program of
Latin-American Studies at Notre Dame.
MURPHY NAMED DEAN OF COLLEGE
The appointment of Thomas T. Murphy as dean of
the College of Business Administration at Notre Dame
was announced in October by Rev. Theodore M. Hes-
burgh, G.S.G., University president.
Murphy, who is a specialist in investments and busi-
ness finance, had been serving as acting dean since De-
cember 1, 1962, when Dean James W. Culliton relin-
quished the post to become a member of the U. S. Tariff
Commission.
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1946,
Dean Murphy holds two degrees from Boston University
and has taken additional graduate studies at the Uni-
versity of Michigan, Indiana University and Notre Dame.
LIBRARY COUNCIL ESTABLISHED
The establishment of The Notre Dame Library
Council and the appointment of eight charter members
were announced recently by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh,
G.S.G., University president.
The Council, Father Hesburgh said, will consist of
book collectors, bibliophiles and authors who will assist
the University in obtaining rare books and outstanding
collections for the new Notre Dame Memorial Library.
Believed to be the largest college library building in the
world, the thirteen-story facility opened in September
and will be formally dedicated in the spring.
Charter members of the Notre Dame Library Council,
all of whom have an active interest in the world of
books, include John Paul Cullen, regional manager, U. S.
Veterans Administration, Milwaukee, Wise.; John T.
Frederick, retired head of the Notre Dame English de-
partment, Iowa City, la.; Paul Horgan Pulitzer Prize-
winning author, Roswell, New Mexico; and Senator
Eugene McCarthy of Minnesota.
Also Ralph G. Newman, owner of The Abraham
Lincoln Bookshop, Chicago, Ill.; Lester W. Olson, a re-
tired official of the Nunn-Busch Shoe Co., Milwaukee,
Wise.; John Bennett Shaw, Tulsa, Okla., businessman;
and Walter Trohan, chief of The Chicago Tribune’s
Washington bureau.
17
The Study of Man
(Continued from page 4)
for reaching them were outlined. This proposal was modified after
discussion with the Carnegie Foundation, which then made a substan-
tial grant to the University. We next had to assure ourselves of the
good will of Catholic educators, who had until then not participated in
an inquiry of this kind. Very fortunately we found an eminent patron
in Cardinal Albert G. Meyer of Chicago. The profound interest and
support of at least three other men occupying key positions in the
Catholic school world were secured — Archbishop Lawrence J. She-
han, Monsignor Frederick G. Hochwalt and Monsignor William
McManus. Notre Dame could then immediately proceed to recruit the
necessary staff and to organize the Study. The cooperation since re-
ceived from dioceses, superintendents, religious communities and schools
has been extraordinary in terms both of candor and cordiality.
More generally, the manner in which the Center functions may be
described as a threefold one. It explores, it promotes discussion and it
fosters research. Let me define these briefly. By “exploration” I mean
the plotting out of an area of inquiry which happens to be of natural
interest to Notre Dame, as an American and Catholic university. This
is never an easy task and involves lengthy discussions with members of
the Faculty and many others. Among the areas we have thus far
looked into are ecumenical discussion, particularly in Scripture study,
African education, Social Change in Latin America, the Mass Media,
Demography, Religion and Education and above all the American
Community and Race Relations.
The next step is discussion, which we stimulate by organizing
conferences. These bring to the University for several days groups of
distinguished authorities. Such meetings can be very lively and some-
times produce quite startling results. Thus a conference we held on the
subject of African Education led to active cooperation between Cath-
olic and Protestant schoolmen in Africa. For each of these we have
had benefactors, ranging all the way from Cardinal Spellman to the
Rockefeller, Ford and Hazen Foundations. If as a result we find that
active continuing research is desirable, we proceed to the drawing up
of proposals for promoting it. Sometimes we succeed and then again
we do not. But we keep on trying and as a result lead busy lives. Of
special value has been the friendly cooperation of the Notre Dame
Foundation.
At the present time our principal immediate hope is to establish as
the continuing core of the Center’s activities an Institute of Higher
Christian Studies. The underlying reason why is this: like its univer-
sity peers, Notre Dame is dedicated to Liberal Education in the deepest
and richest sense, but its special and secure place among American in-
stitutions of higher learning is in large measure determined by its
commitment to the convergence of Religion and Education. The value
of this commitment depends of course on the relative excellence of
each part of the educational program, and yet its total success can be
secured only by the quality of the work done in the general field of
Religion. This field is not limited to Theology alone but embraces
areas of inquiry and exploration which are scientific, historical, socio-
logical and humanistic in character.
It is not difficult to see why Higher Christian Studies in this sense
are of the greatest practical importance. First, thinking about Reli-
gion in our time has taken on a new dimension, namely ecumenical
thinking, often popularly referred to as the “dialogue,” which explores
the possibilities of conciliation and common action rather than those
of conflict. Second, higher education in the United States will within
the foreseeable future largely be conducted under public auspices. This
means that if Religion is to be a part of that education, centers must
be established, the influence of which can be felt throughout the insti-
tutions they serve. Those who conduct the work of such Centers must
be adequately trained. Third, progress is being made throughout the
world in recognizing a measure of conso-
nance between the great religious traditions
and therewith in setting the Christian mis-
sion in a new context. We need to study
the nature of that progress and the setting
in which it takes place.
I cannot outline this proposal in detail
here because it would be quite inappropriate
to impose to that extent on the hospitality of
the editor of Notre Dame. It must suffice
to say that nearly everything the center has
so far done points to the need for such an
Institute and demonstrates also that Notre
Dame is the ideal place in which it could
be established. The University provides above
all a place in which men and women of
widely divergent convictions and back-
grounds can feel at home. It can also make
it relatively easy for Catholic scholars, both
clerical and lay, to speak and write with a
measure of freedom they might not enjoy
elsewhere. Finally, the resources at the Uni-
versity’s disposition are very considerable.
Perhaps one ought to stress just another
fact which we often take for granted and
which is nevertheless of the greatest impor-
tance. Notre Dame is an extraordinarily
beautiful place. It haunts the imagination of
those who come even when, as is not infre-
quently the case, the infamous climate of
Northern Indiana makes its mark on body
and soul.
These then are a few reflections of the
Center for the Study of Man in Contempo-
rary Society which it is hoped will give you
who are so deeply interested in the well-
being of Notre Dame some idea of what it
is and strives to become.
NOTRE DAME NEWS
(Continued from page 2)
NSF MAKES $616,000 GRANT
The University of Notre Dame has been
awarded a grant of $616,000 by The Nation-
al Science Foundation to expand the research
facilities of its Lobund Laboratory.
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive
vice president, said the NSF grant will en-
able the University to triple the experimental
laboratory facilities of its famed germfree
animal research center.
A new Lobund Laboratory building will be
erected, Father Joyce said, as part of a larger
complex of biology facilities on the mall near
the new Notre Dame Memorial Library.
Architectural details of the 20,000 square foot
building and related structures are not com-
plete, he said.
UNIVERSITY AT ELECTRONICS CONFERENCE
In October, the University of Notre Dame
and several faculty members of the De-
partment of Electrical Engineering par-
18
NOTRE DAME
ticipated in the National Electronics Conference in Ghi-
; cago.
J	Dr. Eugene W. Henry, associate professor of Electrical
Engineering, coordinated the University’s participation
in the three-day conference which included more than
200 technical papers, exhibits by 500 electronics firms
1	and a wide range of seminars, symposia and refresher
courses.
Three Notre Dame Electrical Engineering professors
appeared on the conference’s technical program. Prof.
I	Basil R. Myers, head of the department, served as a
;	panelist for a discussion on “The Role of the Humanities
I in Engineering Education.” Dr. Harry G. Lafuse, de-
I	livered a paper on “A Wideband Communication System
I	Using Frequency Scope Modulation.” Dr. James L.
i	Massey spoke on “Error Correcting Codes Applied to
J Computer Technology.”
CROTEAU PUBLISHES BOOK
‘	Dr. John T. Croteau, professor of Economics at Notre
Dame and a specialist in the field of cooperative credit,
is the author of a new book, The Economics of the Credit
Union, which was published by the Wayne State Uni-
versity Press, Detroit, Mich.
TWO LOBUND SCIENTISTS FEATURED
Two research scientists from the University of Notre
Dame’s Laboratories of Bacteriology (LOBUND) were
featured in programs in Fort Wayne and Indianapolis
recently.
Dr. Morris Pollard, director of LOBUND, addressed
the Isaac Knapp Society in Fort Wayne, describing the
research program of LOBUND in the areas of cancer,
viral infections, dental caries and radiation disease. Broth-
er Raphael Wilson, C.S.C., also a member of the LO-
BUND staff, conducted a workshop on testing and evalua-
tion at St. Vincent’s Hospital, Indianapolis, for the In-
diana Conference of Catholic Schools of Nursing.
SMELSER ADDRESSES PIONEERS
I	Dr. Marshall Smelser, professor of History at Notre
1	Dame, was the principal speaker at the annual dinner of
:	the Society of Indiana Pioneers in November. The dinner
;	was the closing event of the 45th annual Indiana History
Conference.
THREE PROFESSORS AT ANNUAL MEETING
Three University of Notre Dame faculty members
participated in the annual meeting of the Indiana Acad-
emy of the Social Sciences recently at Butler University,
,	Indianapolis.
!	They were Peter T. Brady, associate professor of Ac-
j	countancy in the College of Business Administration, Dr.
!	John J- Kane, professor of Sociology and acting head of
!	the Sociology department, and William F. Eagan, asso-
i	ciate professor of Business Organization and Management
j	and acting dean of the Graduate School.
LAWLESS NAMED TO LAW COUNCIL
Judge William B. Lawless, of the Supreme Court of
the State of New York, has been appointed a member of
the Notre Dame Law School Advisory Council by Rev.
1	Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president.
:	Lawless, who is a 1944 Notre Dame Law graduate, pre-
।	sides over the Court’s Eighth Judicial District in Buffalo.
CRAIG PARTICIPATES IN SYMPOSIUM
Dr. George B. Craig, associate professor of Biology
and director of the Mosquito Genetics Laboratory at the
University of Notre Dame, participated in a World
Health Organization symposium at Gainesville, Fla., re-
cently. Thirty-five authorities from throughout the world
attended the symposium which dealt with bioengineer-
ing for biological control of insects. Dr. Craig presented
a paper on “Application of Genetics to Mosquito Pro-
duction.”
POWELL NAMED NATIONAL CHAIRMAN
Dr. Ray M. Powell, head of the department of Ac-
countancy in Notre Dame’s College of Business Admin-
istration, has been named national chairman of the Ac-
counting Careers Council.
The Council was created in 1959 by five professional
organizations to coordinate accounting careers guidance
among young people. Recently, under Dr. Powell’s di-
rection, the Council sent letters to 32,000 mathematics
teachers in public and private high schools and colleges
pointing out the opportunities for good mathematics stu-
dents in the accounting field.
LUDWIG ATTENDS POLISH CONFERENCE
Dr. Peter K. Ludwig, a research scientist in the Radia-
tion Laboratory at the University of Notre Dame, de-
livered a paper at the International Conference on Lu-
minescence held at Torun, Poland, in September. His
subject was “Fluorescent Decay Time Measurement in
the Nanosecond Region.”
FATHER O’BRIEN DISCUSSES BIRTH CONTROL
Rev. John A. O’Brien, research professor of Theology
at the University of Notre Dame, proposed a White
House conference to discuss measures that would “help
the underdeveloped nations deal effectively with their
urgent population problems,” and also called on the
federal government “to conduct a crash research pro-
gram on human reproduction in all its phases.”
Father O’Brien made the two proposals in an article,
“Let’s End the War Over Birth Control” which appears
simultaneously in the current issues of The Christian Cen-
tury and the Ave Maria. An earlier article by the noted
priest-author, “Family Planning in an Exploding Popu-
lation,” appeared in the same Protestant and Catholic
magazines in late August and attracted world-wide in-
terest.
HOLD SIX BIOLOGY SEMINARS
A series of six seminars were held in Notre Dame’s
Biology department in September and October under the
direction of Dr. Ralph Thorson, head of the department.
The speakers for the public lectures included Dr.
Charles Ehret, of the Division of Biological and Medical
Research at the Argonne National Laboratory; Dr. Rez-
neat M. Darnell, associate professor of Biology at Mar-
quette University; Dr. A. G. Leopold, professor of Phys-
iology of Horticultural Crops, Purdue University; Dr.
Charles S. Thornton, chairman of the Zoology depart-
ment, Michigan State University; Dr. Earl Savage, assist-
ant professor of Biology at Notre Dame; and Dr. Philip
Hauser, chairman of the department of Sociology at the
University of Chicago.
19
Miss Mildred Baumgartner
23638 Edison Rd.
South Bend 28, Ind.
The College of Business Administration until 1961 the College of
Commerce was officially organized in 1921 although courses in business
were offered as early as 1913.
Currently the College of Business Administration is headed by Thomas
Timothy Murphy, dean, who is assisted by Professor
John R. Malone, assistant dean.
Sophomores. Juniors and Seniors currently enrolled number 925. In ad-
dition approximately 300 Freshmen have indicated a Business preference,
bringing the total enrollment to 1225. As well, a summer graduate program,
leading to the MBA degree, is inter-departmental, and currently has 120
students enrolled.
The faculty of the College of Business Administration is composed of 42
members who offer the professional areas of the liberal program for business
responsibility leading to the BBA degree. Approximately half of the
Business School’s program is offered by the faculties of the College of Arts
and Letters and the College of Science.
The Departments include: Accountancy. Business Organization and Man-
agement. Finance and Business Economics, and Marketing Management.
The College is headquartered in the Hurley Building of Foreign and
Domestic Commerce.
*	Today, Notre Dame’s ability to provide scholarships to de-
► serving students is limited by a lack of funds for this purpose.
As an alumnus or friend of the University, you can recognize
the importance of maintaining the high level of students coming
” to Notre Dame, and making sure that financial problems do not
exclude deserving students from the opportunity of obtaining a
j degree from Notre Dame.
To assist these deserving young men, memorial scholarships
f are available through the Notre Dame Foundation at remarkably
low cost.
For additional Information please contact:
SCHOLARSHIP CHAIRMAN
j	THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE	DAME FOUNDATION
?!	P. O. BOX 555
l
i	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE	DAME
I	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
1
I
!
f
I