
*
■i
3
Father Basil Anthony Moreau, C.S.C., founded the
Congregation of Holy Cross, and died in 1873. This
statue is by Professor Ivan Mestrovic, internationally-
known sculptor and member of the Notre Dame
faculty.
Named in tribute to Rev. Basil Anthony Moreau,
founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross, the new
$3,000,000 Moreau Seminary was recently dedicated on
the Notre Dame campus. Father Moreau died in 1873
and his cause for beatification has been introduced at
the Vatican.
The present structure replaces an older building by
the same name and will provide much-needed space for
approximately 200 Holy Cross seminarians, as well as for
30 faculty members, student priests and Brothers. Ground
for the new seminary was broken two years ago and the
cornerstone was laid in 1958.
Archbishop Egidio Vagnozzi, Apostolic Delegate to
the United States, officiated at the dedication rites on
campus. It marked the initial public function of his new
position. Following the blessing of the building by Arch-
bishop Vagnozzi, a Solemn Mass was sung by the Most
Rev. Paul Schulte, Archbishop of Indianapolis. Bishop
Leo A. Pursley, of Fort Wayne, preached the sermon on
this special occasion. He stated: “In the whole process of
priestly formation, there is no single human factor more
Accommodations are available for
important than the seminary. . .Every priest reflects in his
personal life and in his active ministry the spirit, the tra-
ditions, the ideals, the quality of teaching, the type of
training, which he has received from the seminary. . .”
The dedication of the seminary closed the centennial ob-
servance marking the Vatican’s approval of the Congre-
gation of Holy Cross on May 13, 1857.
Moreau Seminary is a ‘college in itself,5 and is the
newest structure on the Notre Dame campus. Standing
majestically overlooking St. Joseph’s Lake its facilities
include a main chapel, six small memorial chapels, class-
rooms, library, auditorium-lecture hall, dining room and
kitchen, gymnasium, recreation rooms, workshops and
sleeping accommodations.
Particularly impressive is the main chapel with its
stained glass wall behind the altar. The wall is sixty feet
in width and twenty-nine feet high, and is believed to
be the largest of its type in the world. Directly in front
of the building is a tremendous cross towering eighty-six
feet into the sky with a base sunk eight feet into the earth.
The cloister walk and courtyard on the lower level
facing the lake are bordered on two sides by the glass walls
of the recreation rooms and the library. The main en-
trance hall opens onto the auditorium, seating approxi-
mately 200 people and containing a projection booth for
showing films. A unique feature of the building is its
curved corridors.
Students in Moreau Seminary study for a bachelor’s
degree at Notre Dame while preparing for a four-year
theology program in Washington, D.C., or abroad. Then
they are ordained priests in the Congregation of Holy
Cross for assignment in the United States or in a foreign
land.
Holy Cross Fathers and Brothers are active in the for-
eign mission fields of Pakistan, Chile and Uganda. Many
Moreau Seminary-trained priests are stationed in parishes
The altar in the main chapel of Moreau Seminary. A
stained glass wall 60 feet wide and 29 feet high is visible
in the photograph.
Archbishop Egidio Vagnozzi (center) Apostolic Delegate
to the United States, officiated at the dedication rites on
campus. Other participants included, from left to right.
Very Rev. Christopher J. O’Toole, C.S.C., Superior General,
Congregation of Holy Cross, Rome, Italy; Most Rev.
Leo A. Pursley, Bishop of Fort Wayne; Most Rev. Paul
Schulte, Archbishop of Indianapolis; and Rev. Theodore J.
Mehling, C.S.C., Provincial Superior of the Indiana Pro-
vince, Congregation of Holy Cross.
3
I
NOTRE DAME
VOL. 12. NO. 3. FALL. 1959
Published quarterly bv the L'niversits of Notre Dante. Notre Dame, Indiana.
Entered as second class mattei May 10.
Indiana, under the Act of August 24.
1928, at Post Office at Notre Dame.
1912.
jy Jj p| p| p| Hl
A’AVi?

located throughout the U.S., while others work with mis-
sions in this country. Most often a seminarian who at-
tended classes at Notre Dame prior to receiving his un-
dergraduate degree, returns here as a priest member of
the faculty. In addition to the University of Notre Dame
the Holy Cross Fathers also administer and teach at the
University of Portland. King’s College. St. George's Col-
lege s Chile and Stone Hill College. St. Edward's LTni-
versity in Austin. Tex., is operated by the Brothers of
Holv Cross.
Dedicatory Dinner
More than 1100 persons attended a special dedicatory
dinner of the Moreau Seminary at the Conrad Hilton
Hotel in Chicago where Bishop Fulton J. Sheen was the
principal speaker. Toastmastered by Don McNeill, of
"Breakfast Club" fame, the program also included ad-
dresses by Mayor Richard Daley. Rev. Theodore J. Mehl-
ing, C.S.C.. provincial of the Indiana Province, Rev.
Alfied F. Mendez. C.S.C.. Director of Province Develop-
ment who supervised the Seminary campaign fund, and
Rev. Harold AV. Riley. C.S.C.. Director of the Associate
Family of the Holy Cross Fathers. Archbishop William
David O’Brien, of the Extension Society, gave the invo-
cation.
Notre Dame contributed $1,000,000. through alumni
benefactions, for the construction of the new seminary
while the remaining .$2,000,000 is being raised by friends
of the Holy Cross Fathers, throughout the nation, in their
parishes and schools. Many memorials, such as altars and
rooms, are still being donated.

Bishop Fulton J. Sheen, principal speaker at the dedicatory din-
ner in Chicago, confers with Rev. Alfred F. Mendez, C.S.C.,
Director of Province Development for the Holy Cross Fathers.
More than 1100 persons attended a special dedicatory dinner of
the Moreau Seminary at the Conrad Hilton Hotel in Chicago.
• W

T If
I***
c
served in the main dining room to senn-
Meals are
narians.
Six small
Seminary,
memorial chapels are located in Moreau
This is the chapel of St. Thomas Aquinas.






The seminary’s library is attractively designed on several dif-
ferent levels.
5*
%
.' * _ ■
Seminarians take courses in fine arts featuring sculpturing and
painting.

T? ' 4
■


am’
aim
awn
law
IS 131




I-
—
this present instance is particularly com-
plicated by the general confusion regard-
of no other spot on earth
might make a better begin-
here at Notre Dame, where
inaugurate a new center of
I know
where we
ning than
we might
Christian culture to effect a re-awaken-
ing of the potential of Christian wisdom
applied to the problems of our age. To
this we devote ourselves.
Throughout the nation many univer-
sities are larger than Notre Dame, some
of them older. The significant question,
though, is: How many of them are bet-
ter than Notre Dame as universities?
Excellence as such has no direct relation
to size or age. A small diamond is better
than a huge rhinestone, and a youthful
saint is better than an aged sinner. Ex-
cellence in the case of universities, how-
ever, does have a direct relation to what
universities are supposed to do and how
they are performing their proper func-
tion. It is highlv significant to ask in
this context: How do we compare?
Comparisons are said to be odious. I
suspect that this dictum was coined by
those w’ho compared poorly with the
best of their kind. The comparison in
ing the purpose of university education:
the only valid standard by which univer-
sity excellence may be judged. Before
we compare ourselves with any others,
we should at least be clear ourselves as
to what we are aspiring to do, and the
adequacy of our means.
We have grown greatly in the past
117 years. We have our own power
plant, fire station, laundry, hotel, shop-
ping center and television station. How-
ever related these are to the general op-
eration here, it would be ridiculous to
see in them, or even in our magnificent
academic buildings, an indication of ex-
cellence in our primary objective as a
great Catholic university. In any con-
sideration of physical plant, we compare
favorably with many of the best univer-
sities, but ultimately the physical com-
parison is fruitless and somewhat unre-
lated to excellence as a university. The
inner burning question is still pressing
for an answer. What are we primarily
trying to do and how are we doing it?
The question might be rephrased and
asked in more familial’ form: Why have
a great Catholic university, or any Cath-
olic university at all? The only legiti-
mate answer would have to demonstrate
that a Catholic university has a func-
tion, as university and precisely as Cath-
olic, fulfilled by no other. This function
would have to meet a real and vital
need in the world today.
Universities, like all other human in-
stitutions, came into being because men
saw in them an answer to an urgent
human need. These needs vary some-
what from age to age. This shifting of
priorities, of prime urgencies, results in a
varied emphasis on the part of the uni-
versity. This much though, I think,
should be stated as a matter of stable
principle regarding university objectives,
irrespective of the actual cultural, polit-
ical, religious, or economic climate of
any age: The university is by its essen-
tial nature committed to the mission of
learning and teaching. The university is
born when human minds are at work to-
gether for intellectual purposes. The
university prospers when men are willing
to stand firmly for the value of things
intellectual, to devote themselves whole-
heartedly to study and learning and
teaching that the human intellect may
“become richer and stronger, broader in
appreciation and sympathy, more firm
in judgment, more sure in action ... to
gain at last some measure of wisdom,
some vision of truth, some understanding
of the Will of God.”



Atomic power in Caesar’s day?
Certainly!
Yet this is the case
It was there, in the ground, in the air and water. It
always had been. There are no more “raw materials”
today than there were when Rome ruled the world.
The only thing new is knowledge . . . knowledge of how
to get at and rearrange raw materials. Every invention
of modern times was “available” to Rameses, Caesar,
Charlemagne.
In this sense, then, we have available today in existing
raw materials the inventions that can make our lives
longer, happier, and inconceivably easier. We need only
knorvledge to bring them into reality.
Could there possibly be a better argument for the
strengthening of our sources of knowledge—our colleges
and universities ? Can we possibly deny that the welfare,
progress—indeed the very fate —of our nation depends
on the quality of knowledge generated and transmitted
by these institutions of higher' learning?
It is almost unbelievable that a society such as ours,
which has profited so vastly from an accelerated accumu-
lation of knowledge, should allow anything to threaten
the wellsprings of our learning.
The crisis that confronts our colleges today threatens
to weaken seriously their ability to produce the kind of
graduates who can assimilate and carry forward our
rich heritage of learning.
The crisis is composed of several elements: a salary
scale that is driving away from teaching the kind of
mind most qualified to teach; overcrowded classrooms;
and a mounting pressure for enrollment that will double
by 1967.
In a very real sense our personal and national progress
depends on our colleges. They must have our aid.
Help the colleges or universities of your choice. Help
them plan for stronger' faculties and expansion. The
returns will be greater than you think.
If you want to know what the college
crisis means to you, write for a free book-
let to: HIGHER EDUCATION, Box 36,
Times Square Station, New York 36,
New York.
KEEP IT BRIGHT
Sponsored as a public service, in cooperation with the Council for Financial Aid to Editcation, by
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION
1958 ® TEN-YEAR PROGRAM, $66,600,000 • 1967
L SOPH0CL&Z
newrwv
ffasosF* Fe*»®c®
«
3
GENERAL PROGRAM
&
fA

I

Great Books of Western Civilization
are Read and Discussed in
Seminars and Tutorials ...
by Frank Keegan
The author is an assistant professor at Notre Dame in
the General Program. He has received academic degrees
from this University as well as the University of Santa
Clara. Prior to joining the Notre Dame faculty, Mr. Kee-
gan taught at City College of San Francisco and at St.
Mary’s College (Calif.).
.1	.	.
The General Program of Liberal Education began its
life on the Notre Dame campus ijn the fall of 1950 during
the presidency of Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
From the beginning it was recognized that the promise
of the General Program was very great, for it was a bold
innovation in liberal arts education. On the other hand,
the ways of evaluating its progress were few and difficult
to apply. General Program students would read and dis-
cuss — in an orderly sequence of seminars and tutorials
— most of the greatest books of Western civilization.
Would a student who spent his undergraduate years on
Plato and Aristotle, Chaucer and Dante, the U. S. Consti-
tution and Karl Marx profit more than a student taking
a lecture-course in Greek philosophy, medieval poetry and
modern politics? Like other collegiate programs placing
primary emphasis on the student’s growth and develop-
ment, the General Program agreed to let itself be judged
by its graduates. But, in typical fashion, the General Pro-
gram took a long view of the matter. As the Director of
the Program, Dr. Otto Bird, said in 1951: “For a full and
complete answer to the question of how the program will
do, you need to examine nothing less than the whole life-
time of the student.”
No graduate of the General Program has lived out his
whole lifetime, but many have begun to do so. Since its
inception in 1950, the General Program has graduated a
total of 125 students in six graduating classes (1954
through 1959). This statistic is not large when placed
alongside the number of graduates in departmental majors
at Notre Dame or in American colleges and universities
generally. Yet it is a huge statistic when compared with
the number of graduates of Catholic colleges and univer-
sities which attempt an undergraduate education through
8
NOTRE DAME
90 students are enrolled in 3-year
3
Dr. Otto Bird meets with members of his General Program
staff. From left to right are: John B. Logan, Frank Keegan,
Willis D. Nutting, Frederick Crosson, Edward J. Cronin, Dr.
Bird, Joseph Roberts, Richard J. Thompson, Rev. Roman La-
dewski, C.S.C., and Journet Kahn.
reading and discussing the master works of Western civili-
zation. The 125 graduates of Notre Dame’s General Pro-
gram have pursued the “great books” in courses like the
lyric, tragedy, psychology, metaphysics, theology, physics,
mathematics, politics, logic and the philosophy of science.
No other Catholic institution and few secular ones, at-
tempt a program as ambitious as this.
What has happened to the 125 students graduated so
far? About 60 per cent have gone, or plan to go, to
graduate school. Law is the most popular subject for ad-
vanced study — over 30 students have entered law schools
in this country and one of these is currently on the edi-
torial staff of the Harvard Law Review. The balance of
the 60 per cent who elect graduate study intend to work
for advanced degrees on their way to university teaching
careers. One of these recently won a coveted First in the
course of “Modern Greats” at Oxford University, Eng-
land.
The remaining 40 per cent of General Program gradu-
ates enter military service or professions like business,
writing and publishing or government work. There is rea-
son to believe that the number of students who elect the
General Program as a preparation for business and in-
dustry will increase in the next decade. As men like Clar-
ence Randall of the Inland Steel Co. and Alfred P. Sloan
of the General Motors Corporation have been saying for
a long time: “Give us educated men. We can train them
ourselves, but we can’t educate them.” These executives
know that a young man with a promising future in busi-
ness is not hired for what he knows upon graduation, but
for his proven capacity to learn. Or as a railroad execu-
tive once stated: “We need young men of broad, rather
than narrow, gauge.”
One of Notre Dame’s graduates, Mr. Donald O’Toole,
president of the Pullman Trust and Savings Bank of Chi-
cago, is thoroughly convinced that the best practical edu-
cation is liberal education. Mr. O’Toole recently insti-
tuted a weekly seminar for his senior banking executives.
This seminar, led by Dr. Bird of the General Program, is
one among many signs in the business community that
liberal education has a role to play in American society
at large as well as in the area of undergraduate instruc-
tion.
Perhaps the most successful graduating class in the
history of the General Program was the class of 1958.
This group of 20 young men included a total of eight
graduate scholarships and fellowships: 4 Woodrow Wil-
son Fellowships, 3 Fulbright Fellowships and 1 Danforth
Scholarship. One of these 1958 graduates, William Grif-
fith, was awarded three graduate fellowships at the end
of his senior year, a feat achieved only once before at
Notre Dame. Two short story writers were also included
in this class: James Brunot had his work accepted by
the Evergreen Review and other magazines while Robert

Jungels won the annual short story contest sponsored by
Today magazine in Chicago.
These student accomplishments highlight what is
probably the chief defect in the General Program so far
as its students are concerned. It is clear enough that
superior young men who graduate from the Program will
receive the opportunity for advanced study. What is less
certain is that deserving young men will continue until
graduation and thus be eligible for graduate awards. In
the past two years, several promising students have, be-
cause of insufficient funds, dropped out of the Program.
In the opinion of their professors, these students were
likely winners of graduate scholarships. The loss here is
incalculable. It is a truism that scholars today need scho-
larships, but it is necessary to repeat it at a time when
collegiate education comes at a price too high for many
parents of excellent students.
As it nears the end of its first decade at Notre Dame,
the General Program can note its progress in several ways.
In this article little attention has been given to the se-
quence of courses in the “great books,” to the diversity
of methods employed in the teaching of these courses, or
to the quality of the teaching staff itself. The faculty is
distinguished' by its commitment to effective teaching
through discussion and analysis, and it has achieved a.
remarkable degree of academic informality in its classes.
The men who teach and the students who learn know
that close collaboration and a friendly spirit of enquiry
are often necessary to draw out from a great work its
full measure of truth. Out of such intimate intellectual
collaboration has resulted a community of teachers and
students who learn together.
At the present time, however, the General Program
is especially pleased with the performance of its students.
The success of its first 125 graduates is a source of en-
couragement, not only to the faculty, but to the 90 young
men who are currently enrolled in the Program. These
young men may confidently expect an undergraduate ex-
perience as rich as those who have preceded them just
as they may hope for similar, challenging post-graduate
opportunities. In many cases, however, the lack of scho-
larship aid will prove a hardship for excellent students.
If this material problem is solved, a future progress report
on the students in Notre Dame’s General Program may
be even more significant than the present one.
integrated liberal studies program
9

by Edward Butler, Jr.
The author will be a senior at Notre Dame during the
1959-60 school year. He was president of the Junior Class
and his home is in Akron, O. Mr. Butler is enrolled in
the College of Commerce.
Managerial Decision Making, is the final course of a
program of mathematics and statistics which the Notre
Dame College of Commerce hopes will develop an aware-
ness of quantitative analysis in future businessmen. Its
purpose is to integrate the program’s mathematics and
statistics courses with the basic business courses, enabling
the students to adapt business problems for quantitative
solutions.
James Wysocki, a junior accounting major from Chi-
cago, Ill., enrolled in this program, didn’t wait until the
course was over to adapt one of the techniques he was
learning to a minor “business problem” he had to solve.
Jim, who was business manager for the 1959 Junior Prom,
realized that he could use IBM punch card accounting to
make the many necessary lists of students who were at-
tending the dance.
Wysocki approached his professor, Dr. E. J. McCar-
thy, and asked if these lists could be processed as a class
project. Professor McCarthy agreed and the work began.
Wysocki estimated that the use of the IBM system re-
duced the time element by 25 to 1. More important to
Professor McCarthy and the faculty members of the Col-
lege of Commerce who have worked on this program is
the indication that it is producing the desired results.
The program, which is a year old, started because Dr.
Arnold Ross, head of the Department of Mathematics,
wanted to increase the amount of math taught to Com-
merce students. Dr. Ross, Dean James Culliton of
Commerce, and Professors E. J. McCarthy and Sherman
Shapiro planned the program.
Since World War II there has been a growing aware-
ness of the possible applications of mathematics and sta-
tistics to business problems. This movement, called “Op-
erations Research,” has grown steadily as the so-called
electronic brains have been developed and applied to
business. In the many articles written about this develop-
ment the lack of college courses in these techniques has
been stressed again and again. At the present time most
of the training in “Operations Research” is done on the
graduate school level or in engineering colleges. Such
training, even in graduate business schools, is relatively
new.
The continued growth of the use of quantitative tech-
niques in business seems to be hinged on the training of
management personnel with sufficient knowledge of
mathematics, statistics and related talents. It is neces-
sary for persons to adapt business problems to quantita-
tive techniques and who can communicate with techni-
cians in solving these problems. The development of these
liaison men is the main objective of the College of Com-
merce program.
Students who did well in their freshmen math courses,
and who are interested in this program, take two semes-
ters of calculus and two semesters of statistics the follow-
ing year. These two courses are designed to give them
at least a working knowledge of the mathematics needed
in a business career.
10
NOTRE DAME
. . .education must meet changing
TT v Paddock, representing manage-
Guest lecturer Harold peat-Marwick-Mitchell account-
ment service division	students,
ing firm in New York, speaks to N. v
■iiiirhi wwnm
■MUDLILl	J / ITT!
'--- *	Da

In the junior year the program consists of Managerial
Decision Making and Economics. The former, which may
be called the keystone of the program, surveys the use of
electronic accounting machines, electronic computers,
quality control techniques, linear programming and
model building under various conditions. It attempts to
integrate quantitative techniques with the traditional
business methods.
However, this course is not geared to any of the usual
business divisions of accounting, marketing, production or
finance. Prof. McCarthy, who developed and teaches the
course, visualizes business as one big problem having two
aspects, internal operation and external operation. Ex-
ternal operation handles the goods from the plant loading
dock to the consumer and includes not only distribution,
but financing, warehousing, etc. Internal operation in-
cludes all of the factors that go into the production of
the product. Data processing and analysis is necessary to
control both operations. Such a view of business opera-
tions is a direct result of quantitative techniques, which
gives business a more general view of its operations. Quan-
titative analysis, in effect, puts values on the factors of a
business decision which in the past had to be weighed
intuitively, so that a mathematical answer to the problem
can be found. Such things as the selection of lowest cost
warehouses, the most economical routing of salesmen, the
most profitable product “mix” and the best use of man
or machine hours, can be found by using mathematical
formulas.
Prof. McCarthy’s course is designed to give the stu-
dents an idea of what can be done with quantitative
techniques and acquaint them with the electronic equip-
ment which has been developed to make these techniques
practical.
The students begin by studying IBM accounting ma-
chines which are used by businesses and institutions to
speed up clerical tasks. In this part of the course they
use manuals supplied by IBM and work with the Univer-
sity’s accounting machines. On a couple of occasions tech-
nicians from IBM visited the classes and gave instructions
on the use of the machines. The next part of the course
covers electronic computers. Here most of the work is
done in the classroom, since no machines are available.
The second half of the junior year program is Profes-
sor Shapiro’s economics course. In order to take statistics
sophomores have to drop the normally required economics
course because it is felt that with the mathematical-statis-
tical background they can go more deeply into some of
the analytical techniques of economics. In this course an
attempt is made to show the student how to use data from
past periods to predict the future. As Mr. McCarthy puts
it, “The idea is prediction, or forward planning, through
the integration of economic theory with business plan-
ning.”
Should quantitative analysis live up to the predictions
of its advocates, it will probably become as much a part
of the basic commercial education as accounting. When
this day comes, Notre Dame’s College of Commerce will
have a head start on other undergraduate business schools.
But until then, business needs what Prof. McCarthy
calls executive liaison men who can communicate with
both managers and technicians to develop these tech-
niques and, as they are developed, integrate them with
other business methods.
requirements of students, society
11
sSESSSSSI
bare ground was opened in 1945.
:Notre Dame” after the famed University in
The first “Notre Dame”
school with thatched roof
high
and
Unique Project
Develops in the
Southern Philippines
ALL
in the
NAME
What’s in a name? A great deal, according to Bishop
Gerard Mongeau,	Bishop of Gotabato in the
southern Philippines.
Speaking in Vancouver recently, the Bishop attributed
the phenomenal progress of the Church in the southern
Philippines to the name by which every Catholic institu-
tion there is known — Notre Dame.
In 1939 the Bishop, then Father Mongeau, was
superior of the first seven-man team of Oblate mission-
aries sent to the Philippines. At that time there were
60,000 Catholics and 150,000 Mohammedans in the Pro-
vince of Cotabato.
In the same year the Philippine government opened
up the territory with a gigantic “Land for the Landless”
program. Immediately thousands of Filipinos from the
north began pouring into Gotabato. Most of them were
baptized Catholics, but knew little or nothing about their
faith. Most could neither read nor write.
Between 1942 and 1945 the Oblates were among 4,000
allied prisoners of war held in a Japanese internment
camp in Manila. On their release, they decided that the
only way in which such a small group of priests could
hope to instruct even a minute portion of the hundreds
of thousands of Catholics in their care was through the
training of good Catholic citizens and leaders educated
in Catholic high schools.
Their first high school, with thatched palm leaves for
a roof and the bare ground for a floor, was opened in the
town of Cotabato in July, 1945.
Canadian-born Father Mongeau discussed the ques-
tion of a name with his fellow Oblates, all of whom were
American.
They decided, promptly and unanimously, to call it

NOTRE DAME
Indiana.
12 NOTRE DAME
. . .golden is thy fame and our
They even ‘borrowed’ the University’s well-known victory
march, adapting the words to suit “Notre Dame of Cota-
bato.” At flag-raising ceremony each morning the 250
students sang their own Notre Dame victory song. The
student’s uniforms were green skirts and white blouses for
the girls, and khaki shirt and pants, with a green stripe
down each side, for the boys.
Every year more high schools were built throughout
the southern Philippines -— all called Notre Dame, all
with the same uniforms and victory march.
A tremendous spirit of unity developed among all
Notre Dame students and their parents. “Notre Dame
NEVER loses!” became the proud cry of every youngster
during inter-high school basketball championships and
athletic meets.
Once a truckload of American soldiers drove up to
Notre Dame of Cotabato and, on seeing the name, started
There are 22 Notre Dame high schools in Cotabato, Philippine
Islands.
singing the ‘original’ Notre Dame victory march. A small
Filipino boy immediately protested to an Oblate mis-
sionary. “Hey Father, how come they’re singing our
song?” he wanted to know.
Today there are 22 Notre Dame high schools and
three Notre Dame colleges in Cotabato, attended by 9,000
Catholic and Mohammedan students. In the neighbor-
ing, predominantly-Mohammedan diocese of Jolo, cared
for by Bishop Francis McSorley, O.M.I., there are now
six Catholic high schools. These, also, are all called No-
tre Dame ■—- even though the student body is entirely
Mohammedan and religion is not taught in the schools.
“In ten years we’ll have 20,000 Notre Dame alumni,”
says Bishop Mongeau.
Press, then proceeded to publish Cotabato’s one and only
newspaper, covering everyday world and local news “with
quite a bit of religious news sandwiched in between.”
Still the Bishop was not reaching the many thousands
of Catholics who couldn’t read. So he dreamed up an-
other project. In 1946 he built his own 1000-watt radio
broadcasting station. The call letters are NDBC (Notre
Dame Broadcasting Corporation). The station is on the
air 16 hours a day with newscasts, music, educational and
religious programs. In order to support itself the station
is a commercial one. “Thanks to sponsors like Colgate
Bishop Mongeau erected his own 1000-watt radio station in
1946 with the call letters NDBC (Notre Dame Broadcasting Co.).
and deem, we’re just about breaking even,” says the
Bishop. Soon NDBC will be stepped up to 5000 watts
so that their programs will reach more people and, in
turn, attract more sponsors.
The Bishop’s latest project is a 45-bed hospital in
Cotabato which is named Notre Dame.
Next, the Bishop intends to establish Notre Dame
clinics throughout his diocese.
Today there are 700,000 Catholics in Cotabato. With
only 40 Oblate priests to help him, it is still a physical
impossibility for the Bishop to instruct them all. But
Medical facilities in the southern Philippines include a 45-bed
hospital, named “Notre Dame.”
The Notre Dame Printing Press was established by Bishop Mon-
geau in 1947.
through his mushrooming network of modern Catholic
communication he is making strides in the right direction
and, at the same time, starting to break down the bar-
rier between Mohammedans and Christians.
While the efforts of the missionaries, the teaching
Sisters and Brothers, the lay teachers and lay apostles can-
not be discounted, the Bishop gives most of the credit to
a name — Notre Dame.
“This has been our success,” he declares. “One name
— and what a beautiful name!”
But high schools are not the only means by which the
Bishop is endeavoring to reach and instruct his flock.
In 1947 someone gave him an old newspaper printing
press. He immediately named it Notre Dame Printing
Material for this article was submitted through the cour-
tesy of the Canadian Catholic Conference Information
Service.
hearts forever praise thee. . . .
13

ls!
READ/N
&
W^frnririWwiTVi--1
AMERICAN
MIDLAND
NATURALIST
«««*
t
Scientific
Famed
Journal Founded
at
COIWT&/CS
4*
J
*
Jr’
I
1
Dr. Robert Gordon (seated, second from left), editor of “The
American Midland Naturalist,” meets with members of the
journal’s executive board. Notre Dame scientists associated with
the publication include (left to right) Prof. George Bernard,
Gordon, Prof. George Craig (standing), Rev. Cletus Bachofer,
C.S.C., and Prof. Robert McIntosh.
13^
•rhe
.

Notre Dame in 1909
r
i.
by Janies E. Murphy
The author is Director of Public Information at Notre
Dame and has contributed previous articles to this maga-
zine.
The American Midland Naturalist, a quarterly bio-
logical journal published by the University of Notre
Dame, has recently observed its 50th year in the field of
scientific journalism.
The publication was founded in April, 1909, when
Notre Dame was a small and relatively unknown school
with less than 450 students. Today the University enjoys
international prestige, and The American Alidland Nat-
uralist numbers subscribers in 45 foreign countries as well
as throughout the United States.
The founder of the Notre Dame journal was the late
Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, G.S.C., an unusually gifted
Holy Cross priest who was equally competent in both
botany and chemistry. The Belgian-born priest later was
to achieve world-wide acclaim for his research which led

to the development of synthetic rubber. The principal
home of Notre Dame’s College of Science is Nieuwland
Science Hall which was dedicated in 1953.
Father Nieuwland edited The American Midland
Naturalist for 25 years until 1934. His successors in the
editor’s chair have been Dr. Theodore Just (1935-47),
Dr. John D. Mizelle (1947-53), Prof. Arthur Schipper
(1953-58) and the incumbent, Dr. Robert E. Gordon.
The editorial policy of the quarterly remains substan-
tially the same as when it was founded although its in-
terests are more cosmopolitan than in its early years. Its
editors describe it as a general biological periodical em-
bracing a wide selection of fields in botany, paleontology
and zoology. It features articles of a descriptive, analy-
tical and experimental nature as well as preview articles
on topics of current interest.
The American Midland Naturalist was so named be-
cause, particularly at the outset, its articles dealt largely
with the fauna and flora of the Midwest. However, the
journal has published scientific articles dealing with plants
and animals in Pakistan, Patagonia, Greenland and other
distant lands. A number of its contributors are associated
with educational and research institutions in foreign
countries.
Dr. Gordon, who currently edits the quarterly, joined
the University faculty in September, 1958. A specialist
in ecology, he was educated at Emory University, the Uni-
versity of Georgia and Tulane University, which awarded
him a doctorate in 1956.
Working with Gordon on The American Midland
Naturalist are four other biology department faculty mem-
bers who make up its executive board. They are Rev.
Cletus Bachofer, G.S.G., and Profs. George R. Bernard,
George B. Graig, and Robert P. McIntosh.
The journal also has sixteen associate editors through-
out the country, each an authority in a specialized field.
They are D. B. Burks, U.S. National Museum; Fred R.
Cagle, Tulane University; Aureal T. Gross, Pan-American
Petroleum Go.; Albert L. Delisle, Sacramento State Col-
lege; Theodosius Dobzhansky, Columbia University; Car-
roll Lane Fenton, Rutgers University; David Frey, Indi-
ana University; Theodore L. Jahn, University of Califor-
nia; George N. Jones, University of Illinois; Remington
Kellogg, U.S. National Museum; Paul J. Kramer, Duke
University; Jean Myron Linsdale, University of Califor-
nia; George W. Martin, State University of Iowa; Robert
W. Pennak, University of Colorado; Hugh M. Raup, Har-
vard University, and Loren P. Woods, Chicago Natural
History Museum.
14 NOTRE DAME




DESEGREGATION


In a recent Notre Dame Law School symposium on
“The Problems and Responsibilities of School Desegrega-
tion,” two major political figures from southern “border
states” agreed that the primary responsibility in school de-
segregation should be left to local communities and they
made pleas for southern leaders to solve the problems in
their own states. Former governor Theodore R. McKel-
din of Maryland and U. S. Senator John Sherman Cooper
of Kentucky were the principal speakers at the opening
session of the symposium.
Other nationally prominent figures participating in
the symposium included Bishop Vincent S. Waters of Ra-
leigh, N. G.; Dr. Carl H. Hansen, Superintendent of
Schools, Washington, D. C.; Rev. J. J. Murray, visiting
professor at the Louisville (Ky.) Presbyterian Theological
Seminary; Mayor William D. Hartsfield of Atlanta, Ga.;
George M. Johnson, new member of the Federal Civil
Rights Commission and former Dean of the Howard Uni-
versity Law School in Washington; Dr. Harvey Wheeler,
Professor of Political Science, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, Lexington, Va.; Dr. Rufus Clement, President of
Atlanta (Ga.) University; Rev. Albert D. Mollegen, Pro-
testant Episcopal Theological Seminary, Alexandria, Va.;
Omer Carmichael, Superintendent of Schools, Louisville,
Ky.; and Howard G. Westwood, Washington, D. G., at-
torney. This group represented a cross section of Ameri-
can life including the churches, government, educators,
school administrators, the Negro community and the le-
gal profession. Each of the speakers addressed himself to
the problems and responsibilities of the group he repre-
sented.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, G.S.G., President of the
University and a member of the Civil Rights Commis-
Nationally
Prominent
Persons Discuss
Problems and
Responsibilities
of This Vital,
Current
Subject
Senator John Sherman
Cooper of Kentucky.
Most Rev. Vincent S.
Waters, Bishop of Ra-
leigh, North Carolina.
Honorable Theodore R.
McKeldin, former gov-
ernor of Maryland.
Rev. J. J. Murray,
visiting professor at
the Louisville (Ky.)
Presbyterian Theologi-
cal Seminary.
Dr. Rufus Clement,
President of Atlanta
(Ga.) University.

sion, spoke during the initial session and welcomed the
participants to the campus. Dean Joseph O’Meara of the
Notre Dame Law School described the purpose of the
symposium to the audience and introduced the various

speakers.
Dean O’Meara stated that it was not the intention
of the symposium to debate the merits or demerits of the
“Supreme Court’s school integration decisions which we
support. The whole point of the symposium was to
approach the matter constructively with the idea of illus-
trating the problems involved and making practical sug-
gestions for their solution, so that we can go forward again
as one united people.”
Mr. McKeldin, who served as governor of his state
when the first desegregation moves were made there,
charged that “men active in politics, taken as a class,
have not measured up to their full responsibility” in as-
suming desegregation leadership. The failure, he added,
occurred in northern as well as southern states. Southern
officials did not prepare then' people “for the inevitable
decision of 1954” but leaders in northern states did brief
theirs for the “furious resistance of the South.” The re-
sult, said Governor McKeldin, is “a division that has em-
barrassed the nation in its foreign relations and cuts far
(Continued on page 17)
15
Notre Dame’s 1959 varsity tennis team: (left to right) Coach Tom
Ralph, Charles Stephens, Ray Bender and Bill Heinbecker.
Fallon, Co-captain Ron Schoenberg, Co-captain Max Brown, Don
Undefeated Irish Netmen Also
Score High in Classrooms
by Tbomas Bates
The author is a student assistant writer in Notre Dame’s
Department of Sports Publicity. He will graduate from
the University in 1960 and his home is in Meadville^ Pa.
Notre Dame’s 1959 varsity tennis team proved itself
one of the strongest in Irish net history as it won all 14
of its dual matches, was first in a quadrangular tourna-
ment with Ohio State, Denison and Ohio Wesleyan and
tied Tulane for the National Collegiate Athletic Associa-
tion team championship in Evanston, Ill. Co-captain
Max Brown and his doubles partner Bill Heinbecker lost
to Tulane’s Davis Cuppers Holmberg and Henry in the
final doubles match. Brown previously had advanced in
the singles to the semi-finals before losing to Whitney
Reed of San Jose State who then conquered Yale’s Don
Dell for the singles championship.
Ten of the Irish victories were by 9-0 scores, three
others were 8-1, and the only close match was a 5-4 win
over Michigan, the Big Ten champion. Among the shut-
out victims of Notre Dame were Toledo University,
Western Michigan, Kalamazoo (twice), Indiana Univer-
sity, Purdue University, Northwestern University, South-
ern Illinois University, University of Detroit and Mar-
quette University. The three 8-1 wins were over Iowa,
Wisconsin and Michigan State.
This marked the fifth unbeaten season for Irish tennis
teams since the spring sport was begun at Notre Dame
in 1926. This was also Coach Tom Fallon’s first unde-
feated campaign, in three years of tutoring the varsity.
A senior from Louisville, Ky., Max Brown, who played
three years with the Irish varsity, was the number one
man for the Notre Darners during this season. He ended
the campaign with a 13-1 record in match competition
and won 27 of 31 sets. Ranked eighth in the Southern
Lawn Tennis Association, Brown served as co-captain of
the Irish along with senior Ron Schoenberg. A former
member of the National Junior Davis cup team, Brown
has a Dean’s List Average of 88.05 as a pre-medical major
in the College of Science at Notre Dame.
The number two position was held by Don Ralph, a
sophomore from Bethesda, Md. Ralph finished unbeaten
in 15 matches and was the only member of the team to
close the season without losing a set. He was ranked
seventeenth in the Junior Division two years ago, but was
unable to participate in the circuit last summer because
of illness. He has attained a 94.42 Dean’s List average
as a mathematics major in the College of Arts and Letters.
Schoenberg, a senior left-hander from Los Angeles,
played the number three position, winning 13 of 14
matches and copping 26 of 30 sets. He was the California
Interscholastic champion in 1955 and has been a member
of the Irish varsity for three years. A political science
major in the College of Arts and Letters, Schoenberg has
an 89.91 Dean’s List average.
A sophomore from St. Louis, Mo., Bill Heinbecker,
handled the number four spot. Heinbecker is ranked
fourth in the Junior Division of the Missouri Valley Ten-
nis Association. This spring he won 15 straight matches
without a loss and 30 of 31 sets. His brother, Peter, a
junior, is also a member of the Irish team. Heinbecker
has a 90.58 Dean’s List average as an accounting major
in the College of Commerce.
Ray Bender, a junior from Burlington, N. C., who
played the number five singles position, finished the cam-
paign with a 16-0 record in matches and a 32-1 set mark.
A former North Carolina Jaycees Junior champion, Ben-
der has an approximate 80 average as a student in elec-
trical engineering.
A monogram winner as a junior in 1958, Chuck Ste-
phens, from Louisville, Ky., returned to hold down the
number six position. Stephens won 11 matches and drop-
ped three and had a 22-7 set record. He also is a pre-
medical major in the College of Science, maintaining an
85 average.
16
NOTRE DAME
Forty-six Sisters representing 21 Orders attended classes at Notre
The Orders are: Srs. of Charity of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Congre-
gation of the Srs. of Charity of the Incarnate Word, Srs. of Divine Provi-
dence, Srs. of the Most Precious Blood, Srs. of St. Joseph, Srs. of the Holy
Family of Nazareth, Felician Sisters, Srs. of Charity of Providence, Srs.,
Servants of the Immaculate Heart of Mary, Dominican Sisters, Benedictine
Sisters, Institute of the Sisters of the Third Order of St. Francis, Phila.
Dame during the 1958-59 school year.
Foundation, Urusuline Nuns, Sts. of the Presentation of the Blessed Virgin
Mary, Sisters of Mercy, Mother Seton Sisters of Charity, Srs. of Charity
of Nazareth, Srs. of Loretto at the Foot of the Cross, Srs. of Providence
of St. Mary-of-the-Woods, Ind., Srs. of St. Joseph and School Sisters of
Notre Dame.
School Desegregation
(Continued from page 15)
deeper than the simple issue of administration of the
public schools.” Both McKeldin and Senator Cooper de-
fended President Eisenhower’s action in sending troops
to the Little Rock integration crisis. Senator Cooper said
that it would be impossible for Congress “to adopt a na-
tional timetable for desegregation.” He asserted that the
courts have made a “magnificent record” in individual de-
segregation cases. He urged, however, that Congress
adopt the administration’s proposal “to impose criminal
sanctions upon those who willfully obstruct court orders
in school desegregation cases.”
Bishop Waters described racial segregation as “a mor-
ally wrong and sinful practice which may not be approved
by any Catholic.” The southern prelate who recently or-
dained the first Negro priest in North Carolina said that
Catholics may not “formally cooperate in the violation of
a Negro’s rights,” despite pressures of his local commu-
nity. Rev. Murray stated that “a segregated church can-
not speak with any sincerity or power about integration
in education. The first duty of the churches in relation
to integration is to refuse to assist in any effort to evade
or delay the processes of integration in our public schools.”
Speaking via a special telephone circuit to the sym-
posium from Atlanta, Mayor Hartsfield predicted that if
a showdown comes, the state officials of Georgia will close
public schools rather than integrate them. He described
himself as a moderate and said that the Supreme Court’s
desegregation decision of 1954 “must be recognized as an
accomplished fact and the law of the land.” Professor
Wheeler of Washington and Lee University advocated the
establishment of a special federal auxiliary school system
for all unintegrated areas of the South. President Clem-
ent from Atlanta University told the symposium that the
American Negro is not seeking “social associations” with
other people. He emphasized, however, that the Negro is
expecting to achieve “first-class citizenship in a dem-
ocracy.”
The school superintendents of Louisville and Wash-
ington, D. C., described the successful desegregation of
schools in their cities. In Louisville Dr. Carmichael stated
that there has been a significant improvement in the
achievement of Negro children without any adverse ef-
fect on their white classmates as far as tests can measure.
Dr. Hansen of Washington stressed the importance of
community readiness and a broad educational program
to implement the Supreme Court’s desegregation order.
Attorney Howard C. Westwood told the Notre Dame
symposium that defiance of the Supreme Court’s decision
is “impossible.”
In his introductory remarks Dean O’Meara stated
that “the decisions of the Supreme Court in the school
integration cases have created enormous problems.” The
dearth of leadership, said the Dean, only increases the
obligation which all of us would have anyhow. The sym-
posium is intended to make some contribution toward the
resolution of these grave problems, which menace our
unity and waste our strength in a world wherein, as
Thornton Wilder has said, “every good and useful thing
. . . stands moment by moment on the razor edge of dan-
ger. . . .”
17
/	\	zZ	'
z \' u v .\
/ ■ \ '
NOTRE DAME’S
NAVAL
\
ROTC
UNIT
The bond of friendship and respect between the
United States Navy and the University of Notre Dame
is of long duration. The Middies of the Naval Academy
and the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame inaugurated one of
football's most colorful and continuing intersectional rival-
ries beginning in 1927. Several years ago Rev. Theodore
M. Hesburgh, G.S.C., was president of the Academy’s
Board of Visitors and Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, G.S.G., the
University's Executive Vice-President, is currently a
member of the Board. Admiral Arleigh Burke, Chief of
Naval Operations, was the commencement speaker for
Notre Dame's 1956 graduating class and also the recipient
of an honorary degree.
However, this is not a review of the relations of the
Naval x\cademy and Notre Dame but rather a story of
the Navy program at the University. In the spring of
1941 the first nucleus of what was to become an all-out.
Navy training program arrived at Notre Dame. The
NROTG staff of four officers and eight enlisted men un-
der the command of Captain H. P. Burnett, USN, re-
ported to establish a program which has continued to this
day. The initial class was composed of 165 students from
which 81 graduated after completing their regular course
of study.
On December 7, 1941. with the outbreak of war, the
nation was quickly united as never before. Immediately
upon our entry* into the war, Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell,
G.S.G.. who was then President of the University, offered
all of the facilities of this institution to the government.
In April of 1942 the V-7 Indoctrination School was cre-
ated and the first group of 900 men, all college graduates,
enlisted for one month as apprentice seamen. Those that
passed the rigorous examinations and physical fitness tests
later were sent to Abbott Hall in Chicago for twelve ad-
ditional weeks of midshipmen’s training before receiving
their commissions.
After more than five thousand V-7 trainees had com-
pleted the cycle, the scope of training was increased to
include the midshipmen’s courses. At that time Notre
Dame officially became a United States Naval Reserve
Midshipmen’s School.
More than two thousand “specialists,” principally en-
gineers and graduates of technical schools, took special
courses on the campus and later these men were assigned
to supply depots, Navy yards and shore duty in engineer-
ing.
When a complement of sailors and Marines arrived in
July of 1943 it was significant in that Notre Dame then
sponsored three separate training programs. These men
had already seen active service and were returning to do
undergraduate work in the fields of mathematics and phy-
sics. Captain Burnett was reassigned in 1943 and his
successor was Captain J. R. Barry.
In 1944 the first group of NROTG students who had
entered Notre Dame historically so long ago, but chrono-
logically only three years before, graduated and received
their commissions. During World War II Notre Dame
trained almost 12,000 ensigns for various types of duty and
provided indoctrination courses for 5,000 more. The num-
ber of “specialists” who graduated from the University
exceeded 2,000 men.
18 NOTRE DAME
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., (left), president of Notre
Dame, received the Navy’s Distinguished Public Service Award
at the annual Presidential ROTC Review on campus. Rear Ad-
miral William A. Dolan, U.S.N. (right), representing the Sec-
retary of the Navy, conferred the honor which is the highest
award the Navy can give to a civilian.
Admiral Arleigh Burke, USN, (left) Chief of Naval Operations,
addressed the 1956 commencement class; Notre Dame awarded
him an honorary degree. Captain Leonard T. Morse, USN, is
Admiral Chester Nimitz, World War II hero in the South Pacific,
inspected personnel and facilities on campus following V-J Day.
The Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps passes in
review.

A fitting climax to the story of Notre Dame’s wartime
effort was contained in a message received by Father O’-
Donnell on May 15, 1946, from Admiral Chester Nimitz,
USN: “Father O’Donnell, you sent forth to me as to
other naval commands on every ocean and continent, men
who had become imbued with more than the mechanical
knowledge of warfare. Somehow, in the crowded hours
of their preparation for the grim business of war, they
had absorbed not only Notre Dame’s traditional fighting
spirit, but the spiritual strength, too, that this University
imparts to all, regardless of creed, who come under its
influence.”
The University had not only supplied the campus fa-
cilities to the Navy, but her scientists and engineers had
conducted research and experiments for the government
and private industries engaged in war production. In the
physics laboratory, work contributing to the development
of atomic energy was carried on and in other departments
significant work was done in electronics, biology, bacteri-
ology and chemistry.
Since the close of World War II the Naval ROTC
at Notre Dame has remained vigorous and active. Today,
the unit is commanded by Captain Leonard T. Morse,
USN, a 1929 graduate of the Naval Academy. The cur-
rent unit is one of the largest of the 52 established at in-
stitutions of higher learning throughout the United States.
The program, which requires four years to complete, leads
to a commission in the U S. Navy, U. S. Naval Reserve,
U.S. Marine Corps or U. S. Marine Corps Reserve. Dur-
ing the 1958-59 school year 380 Notre Dame students
were enrolled in the Naval Reserve Officer Trainina;
Corps. Commissions were awarded in June of this year
to 64 Navy ensigns and 7 Marine lieutenants.
*


unit.
commanding officer of Notre Dame’s ROTC
Notre Dame students were included in the Summer cruise of
NROTC units.

STUDENT AID
(Scholarships and Fellowships, Campus Employment, Loans)
mg
in this important and vital Program.
Dame needs unrestricted monies for student loans and campus employment.
For
aid
some students of limited means, t,he University of Notre Dame has financial
available in the form of scholarships, employment and Ioans. In the award-
of scholarships, the determining factors are superior academic performance.
In addition to scholarships and fellowships, Notre
During the next decade, Notre Dame has determined that a minimum amount of $5,000,000
will be required for Student Aid on the undergraduate and graduate levels. Benefactors
who wish to provide an ‘avenue of opportunity’ for deserving youths are invited to invest
a bdsard J
Xi
200 Bradley Avenue,
State	pa


high character, leadership potential and financial need. Employment on
campus is offered for approximately 700 students (preference is given to up-
perclassmen) who need to earn part of their college expenses. In 1950, the
Fisher Education Fund was established as a revolving loan fund by a gift of
$250,000 from Mrs. Fred Fisher of Detroit, Michigan. Other loan funds are
also available, and various individuals, alumni clubs and organizations have
generously contributed toward scholarships and fellowships.
NOTRE DAME’S 1958-1967 PROGRAM
1.	Endowment for Increased
Faculty Salaries
2.	Contributions for Research
527,000,000
3. Student Aid
$11,000,000
$ 5,000,000
4.	Special Funds for
Administrative Purposes
5.	New Buildings
S 5,000,000
518,600,000
Additions to
a)	Commerce
b)	Law
c)	Engineering
Library
(2) Graduate Halls
Priests' Faculty Building
Maintenance Center
Auditorium
Fieldhouse
$ 500,000
$ 500.000
S 500,000
$5,000,000
$2,500,000
$1,500,000
$ 600,000
$3,500,000
$4,000,000
&
$


ft
• 'k