
1
FATHER WILSON
ASSIGNED TO
ND FOUNDATION
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., has been granted
an indefinite leave of absence from his post as director
of The Notre Dame Foundation and head of the Uni-
versity’s $66,600,000 development program, it was an-
nounced recently by the office of Rev. Theodore M.
Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame president. Father Cava-
naugh has been suffering from a chronic vascular ailment.
Rev. John H. Wilson, C.S.C., administrative assistant
to Father Hesburgh, has been named acting director of
the Foundation, Notre Dame’s fund-raising organization.
He wall coordinate all the University’s public relations
and development activities.
The University also announced the appointment of
Rev. Thomas J. O’Donnell, C.S.C., to a newly created
alumni liaison post. Father O’Donnell, who has been
associate director of the Foundation, will travel widely
in his new assignment, meeting at regular intervals with
Notre Dame’s 175 local alumni clubs in this country
and abroad.
Father Cavanaugh served as Notre Dame’s president
from 1946 to 1952, and he has been the University’s
Father Cavanaugh
_, principal public relations
and development officer
since 1953. The Notre
Dame Foundation, which
he established during his
presidency in 1947 and
which he has actively led
during the past six years,
has received more than
$30,000,000 in gifts and
grants. Fifteen major build-
ings have been erected on
the campus since the Foun-
dation was inaugurated twelve years ago.
Father Wilson, a native of Chicago, Ill., was ap-
pointed administrative assistant to the president of
Father Wilson
Notre Dame in 1958. Pre-
viously, he had served for
two years as assistant direc-
tor of the Holy Cross
Fathers’ Office of Province
Development. In earlier
years he was vocation direc-
tor for the Holy Cross
Fathers and promotion and
advertising director of The
Catholic Boy. Father Wil-
son was graduated as a lay-
man from Notre Dame in
1932 and received a law degree from the Chicago-Kent
o	o
College of Law in 1934. He entered the Congregation
of Holy Cross that year and was ordained to the priest-
hood in 1941.
Father O’Donnell
Father O’Donnell, also
born in Chicago, was grad-
uated from Notre Dame in
1941 and was awarded a
master’s degree by the
Catholic University of
America, Washington, D.C.
He was named assistant to
the director of the Notre
Dame Foundation in 1953
and subsequently became
associate director of the or-
ganization. Father O’Don-
nell
and
entered the Holy Cross Fathers’ novitiate in 1936
was ordanied to the priesthood in 1945. He is a
former faculty member at Holy Cross College, Wash-
ington, D.C., and also served as associate editor of The
Catholic Boy.
Cover Design:
who have been
Listed on the front cover are names
of priests and laymen, all deceased,
associated in one way or another with
the greatness of Notre Dame. Rev. Edward F. Sorin,
C.S.C., with seven Brothers of Holy Cross, founded the
University in 1842 and was its first president; Rev. John
A. Zahm, C.S.C., teacher of distinction, had a far-
reaching influence on furthering scientific investigation
and research at Notre Dame in the 1870’s; Rev. John
W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., ninth president of the University
in 1905-1919, was an exceptionally talented writer and
speaker; Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C., Chemistry pro-
fessor, tenth president (1919-1922), provincial; Rev.
Charles O’Donnell, C.S.C., twelfth president (1928-
1934), poet and inspiring professor of rhetoric; Rev.
Alexander Kirsch, C.S.C., priest-scientist and member of
the Notre Dame faculty following ordination in 1880;
Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., famed as the dis-
coverer of neoprene, the first commercially successful
synthetic rubber in America, died in 1936; Rev. Francis
Wenninger, dean of the College of Science (1926-1940)
and organizer of the Notre Dame Academy of Science;
James F. Edwards, professor of History and head of the
University Library (1874-1924); Maurice Francis Egan,
professor, poet, novelist and editor (1889); Col. William
Hoynes, dean and professor of Law at Notre Dame for
half a century (beginning in 1883); Albert F. Zahm,
founder of modern aeronautical science (1880), profes-
sor, chief of the aeronautical division of the Library of
Congress (brother of Father John A. Zahm); Jerome J.
Green, the first American to send a wireless message
(1899) and professor of electrical engineering at Notre
Dame; Knute K. Rockne, Chemistry teacher and builder
of men (died in 1931); Waldemar Gurian, internation-
ally-famed political scientist, editor, professor (at Notre
Dame, 1937-1954); Bernard C. Barth, first general man-
ager and vice-president of Notre Dame’s commercial
television station (1955-1959).
NOTRE DAME	VOL. 12, NO. 4, WINTER, 1959
Published quai-terly by the University of Notie Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Entered as second class mattei Mav 10, 1928, at Post Office at Notre Dame,
Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.
?***•*!»
Every new synthesis of old ideas,
every new scientific discovery, every
human creation of a new form is noth-
ing more than the creature’s elabora-
tion in time of the Creator’s eternal
plan. In a special way, Notre Dame
has a heavy responsibility to pursue
these activities constituting, in effect, a
natural revelation through which the
Divine Word is embellished. That is
why scholarly research takes on an in-
creasingly important role in the intel-
lectual life of our faculty and students.
Research in the contemporary world
has become the way of life of true
scholars. It is increasingly character-
ized by the elaboration of physical re-
sources needed to support the efforts
of its devotees. In fact, the resources
needed to support any truly creative
group of men such as a university fac-
ulty are simply stupendous. Consider
the current frantic attempts to de-
velop automatic language translators
as a means of keeping up with the
scholar’s insatiable demand for com-
munication; or the burgeoning traffic in
all kinds of audio-visual aids to accele-
rate the pace of learning. The massive
accumulations of the printed word call
not only for bigger libraries but also
sophisticated and elaborate means for
making these words immediately avail-
able to the scholar. In the natural and
social sciences, the application of the
scientific method results in the gene-
ration of raw data in quantities un-
manageable but for the electronic com-
puters with their capacity fox' storing,
recalling and organizing this data at
the behest of their expert operators.
The proliferation of magnificently
conceived instruments to extend the
senses of man into space in one direc-
tion and into the heart of the atom in
the other reflects the pressure generated
by research for resources proportioned
to the creative abilities of scholars and
scientists. Anything less than what can
be conceived in the mind of man as
good and useful in pursuit of know-
ledge is an unacceptable compromise.
Our problem at Notre Dame is, at
least, to minimize this compromise by
finding the resources proportioned to
the ambitions and abilities of our own
faculty. Obviously, they cannot en-
gage in every productive form of
scholarship and research. Their parti-
cipation is necessarily confined to their
current interests and competence.
Their interests are being increasingly
served by the burgeoning programs of
the federal government in support of
university research. Although concen-
trated mainly in the natural sciences,
there are nevertheless an increasing
number of federal programs for spon-
sorship of research in the humanities
and the social sciences. Noteworthy
among these are the recently inaugu-
rated programs under the National De-
fense Education Act. Also the Na-
tional Science Foundation has em-
barked cautiously upon a program to
support some aspects of social science
research. I have for the past two years,
been chairman of the National Science
Board’s Committee for this research.
Recognizing the overriding interest of
the federal government in research re-
lated to national defense, health and
economic welfare, the private founda-
tions have channeled their funds into
fields not covered by federal support.
As a means of augmenting our own
limited resources, we are encouraging
faculty members with appropriate
interest and qualifications to partici-
pate in these federally and privately
sponsored research programs.
j^otre ^Barne, man anti fns toorlli—
Rev. James A. Burns, G.S.C.
Albert F. Zahm
Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland,
C.S.C.
Bold vision and solid Christian fortitude
inspired Father Edward F. Sorin to found
Notre Dame in the Indiana wilderness in
1842. Indeed his vision and fortitude be-
came indelible marks forever stamped on
the character of this University.
Down through the succeeding 117 years,
the members of his Notre Dame family —
priest, brother, and layman alike — have
faced their many challenges with the same
characteristic virtues. One of these chal-
lenges, only dimly discernible in Father
Sorin’s day, has now emerged almost ex-
plosively to create a host both of oppor-
tunities and of problems. Carrying on in
Father Sorin’s tradition, Notre Dame has
no choice but to grasp these opportunities
while grappling with the problems they
create.
More specifically, the opportunities are
for the faculty to augment their profes-
sional stature as scholars by pushing for-
ward the boundaries of knowledge, by syn-
thesizing the old and discovering the new,
through individual and collaborative re-
search. The problems are mainly for the
University to provide the means and in-
centives for research while striking that
delicate balance between its traditional
functions of preserving and disseminating
knowledge as well as of discovering it.
And all of this must be done within that
precious framework of academic freedom
that is the hallmark of any university
worthy of the name.
Because it has been so regularly used in
a narrow sense to describe the highly
specialized methods of modern science, “re-
search” has taken on an unnecessarily re-
strictive meaning in the popular mind.
Within the University, research is best de-
fined as those freely chosen activities of the
professor not directly involved in his teach-
ing function and which have the effect of
broadening his personal grasp of an intel-
lectually respectable body of knowledge.
This definition encompasses a whole host
of intellectual activities. All book reading,
except that done for entertainment or di-
version, is research. Meditation is research
of a very powerful sort. Out of it comes
new insights into the essential relationships
between God and man, between man and
his fellow man, between man and the cre-
ated universe. Much of the theoretical
framework of such disciplines as psychology
and sociology grow out of informalized and
unsystematized introspective interludes. In
RESEARCH
and Notre
Commitment
Francis X. Bradley
Ed. Note: This is a special issue of
Notre Dame highlighting research activi-
ties on campus in science, engineering,
arts and letters,
law and com-
merce. Material
has been submit-
ted and written
by Francis X.
Bradley, Jr., as-
sistant dean for
research in the
Graduate School
since 1957, and
members of the
Notre Dame fa-
culty. Mr. Brad-
ley is also Acting
Administrative
Director of the
University’s Lo-
bund Institute.
Mr. Bradley considers his proper func-
tion to help the University create the en-
vironment, opportunities and incentives for
faculty research and scholarship. He tries
to keep the faculty informed of the many
developing interests of government agen-
cies, foundations and private organizations
in sponsoring research and faculty scholar-
ship. He also serves the sponsors, the
faculty and the University administration
by coordinating the many details involved
in administering sponsored activities.
Mr. Bradley was awarded a bachelor of
science degree in aeronautical engineering
at Notre Dame in 1939. After serving as
a lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Army Air
Corps during World War II he returned
to the campus to receive a master’s degree
in mathematics and a Juris Doctor degree
from the Notre Dame Law School in 1949.
A year later Mr. Bradley was awarded a
master of laws degree by the Yale Law
School.—J.N.C.
fact, the exciting story of modern scientific
discovery is replete with examples of basic
theory discovered through sudden flashes
of intuition.
But research in the twentieth century
means much more than book browsing and
meditation. With the means of communi-
cation so marvelously at hand, Christian
charity dictates that they be used for the
4 NOTRE DAME
a*
Dame’s
to Excellence
By Francis X. Bradley
widest possible dissemination of knowledge
and truth in furthering the welfare and
happiness of mankind. Christ’s injunction
to go forth and teach all nations was His
directive to insure the benefits of Divine
Revelation and the Mystery of the Re-
demption to all men. The fact that God’s
continuing revelation of Himself and His
Creation proceeds laboriously in time
through man’s successive discoveries only
lends weight to this injunction. Thus the
mark of a Christian scholar has become his
willingness to share and to expose for cri-
tical evaluation the results of his scholar-
ship.
Research in the twentieth century is
aided by powerful tools. The refined ap-
।	plications of mathematics and logic to sci-
entific investigation, the power of empirical
methods in the study of nature, the syste-
matic organization of specialized bodies of
knowledge — these have radically accel-
erated the pace of discovery in the natural
sciences and, to a lesser extent, in the social
sciences. The faculties and facilities in-
volved in this research pose formidable
problems for the University.
The systematic organization of specia-
lized bodies of knowledge presents major
f	responsibility not only for the student faced
' with the task of mastering one of these
specialities but also for the University and
;	the faculty in providing him the oppor-
tunity to do so. The University in its neces-
I sary magisterial role must guide the student
। away from narrow specialization without
compromising his professional preparation
and must insist on breadth of vision with-
out encouraging diffusion of effort and
interest. In fact, with the advent of spe-
cialization, this has become the classical
educational problem in the modern uni-
versity.
The application of empirical methods,
particularly in the natural sciences where
there value has been amply demonstrated,
places great demands on the University’s
resources to provide the essential equip-
ment. Wind tunnels, shock tubes, particle
accelerators, biotrons, mass spectrometers,
radiation sources — these are things mod-
ern research are made of. Some of them
transcend the resources of a private Uni-
versity and have to be provided by public
funds for research in the national interest.
Others are within the financial reach of the
University but only at the expense of its
other ambitions and responsibilities. The
demands grow daily for more sophisticated
and expensive equipment. Certainly but
for the federal support provided through
sponsored research much of this equipment
would not be here and, as certainly, with-
out it many of our best faculty members
would not be here either.
Even the applications of mathematics
and logic to research problems can no
longer be sketched out on the back of an
old envelope. More likely they will have
to be programmed on an IBM 704 com-
puter — an intricate, electronic marvel
with an unsatiable capacity for solving
problems and for using good men and
much money in the process.
The real scientific and technological
problems of man in space are only now
being discovered with all their staggering
implications. Beset by threats ranging from
lethal radiation belts to psychological
trauma, man’s life in space may indeed be
an unhappy one for a long time to come.
Despite these demons charted in space,
Notre Dame has, nevertheless, a firm com-
mitment to engage as a cooperative partner
in the Christian intellectual tradition that
has brought man to this new threshhold.
Our capability to engage is enhanced by
our identification with the centuries old
dedication of the Catholic Church to the
optimistic notion that man, with God’s
grace, is intellectually and morally per-
fectible. The pages that follow are intended
to give you an impression of Notre Dame’s
commitment to this evolving intellectual
tradition of research as one ingredient in
her drive toward excellence.
Rev. John A. Zahm, G.S.C.
Waldemar Gurian
Rev. Francis Wenninger,
C.S.G.



Research and Scholarship
at Notre Dame—1959
Within the short compass of the following ten pages it is not possible to describe even briefly all of
the sponsored and unsponsored research and scholarship now in progress at Notre • Dame. Also
many valuable educational and spiritual programs, not strictly classifiable as research, are features
of the intellectual life of the campus. Characteristic of these are the Institute of Spirituality, Father
Mathis' Liturgy Program, National Science Foundation sponsored teacher training institutes and
many distinguished symposia and lecture series. These are the proper subject of a separate survey
to be published in a later issue of Notre Dame.
Probing the Human Spirit
Some Theologians
Their Current Interests
Rev. Robert S. Pelton, C.S.C.
A continuing preoccupation of a theology faculty is
the role of theology in the intellectual life of the
University and in forming the spiritual life of the
layman. As part of this study, five professors in the
Theology Department are carefully designing a new
approach to graduate training.
Rev. Philip L. Hanley, O.P.
This desire to stimulate students of theology leads
to an attempt to integrate the thought of St. Thomas
Aquinas with modem Encyclicals, on the one hand,
and the Fathers of the Church, on the other, into
a text for study groups at the collegiate and alumni
level.
Rev. John S. Dunne, C.S.C.
Two approaches go hand in hand: one modern,
attempts to mark out the common grounds of
Catholic and Protestant theologies as a first step on
the long, difficult road to Church unity; one ancient,
studies the religious ideology of the Hellenic city-
state.
Rev. Edward D. O’Connor, C.S.C.
Among several challenging subjects in view are the
problems of Catholicism and academic freedom,
the .historical evolution of the theology of Faith and
early scholastic Mariology.
Rev. Charles H. Henkey
Aesthetics and the metaphysics of love are taken as
a philosophical basis for the better understanding
of this sacramentality. The Incarnation, source of
the Church’s sacramental character, is studied as
the unifying element of Catholic theology.
Rev. Roman S. Ladewski, C.S.C.
What psychology and pastoral theology have to say
about the role of parents in the moral guidance of
their children.
Rev. William J. Hegge, O.S.C.
G. K. Chesterton, his apologetic method and the
leading idea in all his writings command attention as
illuminating the broader problem of the apologetics
appropriate to the “newer theology.”
Some Philosophers
Their Present Intellectual Exercises
Rev. Herman Reith, C.S.C.
The intellectual life and the teaching profession is
one pole and the philosophy of Communism as de-
veloped in the writings of Lenin is the other.
John James Fitzgerald
The formulation and evaluation of the substance of
Jacques Maritain’s theory of knowledge as revealed
in his works now treasured in Notre Dame’s
Maritain Center.
Joseph Evans
A critical edition of the philosophy of Maritain is
a primary goal for the director of the Maritain
Center.
John A. Oesterle
Studies the texts of Albertus Magnus in formal
logic to evaluate their significance for logic in both
medieval and modem thought.
Boleslaw Sobocinski
Launches the new “Notre Dame Journal of Formal
Logic” as a labor of his love for symbolic logic and
the foundations of mathematics.
Herbert Johnston
The philosophical implications of such diverse de-
velopments as subliminal advertising and strikes not
involving work stoppages attract the Thomist in-
terested in business ethics.
6 NOTRE DAME
Those attending the opening of the Maritain Center at Notre
Dame included, (left to right): Victor Schaefer, Director of the
University Library; Joseph Evans, Director of the Center;
Professor Jacques Maritain, world-renowned philosopher; and
Father Herman Reith, C.S.C. and Frank Keegan, both of
the N.D. faculty.
Rev. Ernan McMullin
The philosopher of science trying to reconcile philo-
sophically the multiple formulations of the physicist’s
uncertainty principle and to shed some light on the
famous Galileo attempt to prove the motion of the
earth with all its repercussions.
Joseph Bobik
The challenging intellectual exercise is to identify
the sets of objects suitable to metaphysical inquiry
as a refinement of the methods of metaphysics.
Journet Kahn
Attempts to contrast the basic assumptions of ex-
istential analysis with those of Sigmund Freud and
to evaluate the assumptions attributable to each
school of thought philosophically.
Otto Bird
From the viewpoint of modem logic analyzes the
history of medieval logic to show what the great
medieval logicians were up to in their treatises on
the subject, to trace the development of the tradi-
tion they established and to show its relevance to
contemporary accounts of the laws of nature and of
argument.
Frank Keegan
Looks into the earliest political ideas of Maritain
during his “Action Francaise” days and into his
commitment to the conservative, monarchical tra-
dition in French politics.
Some Historians
Their Resurrections
Rev. Astrik L. Gabriel
Medieval education as exemplified by the University
of Paris and as reflected in the lives of great medi-
eval educators occupies the center of interest as a
part of the program of the Medieval Institute.
Rt. Rev. Philip Hughes
Profound and prolific scholarship ranging over “The
General Councils of the Church,” “The Returns of
the Catholic Church to the English State 1829-51,”
“Lingard, Pioneer of Scientific Historical Writing,”
“The Catholic Reformation” and others.
Marshall Smelser
American historian recording especially the era
1801-1817 for a multi-volume history of the United
States.
William O. Shanahan
Researches the German Protestant effort to come
to terms with the social changes caused by the in-
dustrial revolution during the latter part of the
nineteenth century for a book to be published under
the auspices of Notre Dame’s Committee on Inter-
national Relations.
Boleslaw Szczesniak
Organizing a volume, or two, of information about
Soviet Russian Central Asia with special interest in
the formation of the new nationalism and in ten-
dencies toward self-determination among the Asiatic
republics dominated by the Russians.
James A. Corbett
Delves into medieval commentaries on the Bible.
Walter D. Gray
The political beliefs and activities of the “notables”
in France from the Revolution of 1848 to the 16th
of May, 1877.
Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C.
A medieval classicist reports on Chaucer “Baiting
the Summoner” and translates the Aurora of Peter
Riga, a unique 12th-century versification of the
Bible.
LIFTING THE HUMAN SPIRIT
Some Artists
Some of Their Inspirations
Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C.
Based on a concerted study of “sleep” as expressed
in concentric and parallel diagonal lines he attempts
to capture this fascinating concept within the hori-
zontal forms of carved wood.
Ivan Mestrovic
Massive stone and textured wood chiseled into
powerful expressions of the human condition,
monuments to the eternal love of God for man.
Stanley S. Sessler
Portraiture in the classical tradition personalized
with modem symbolism and figure drawing as a
basic discipline command his talents.
7
Research and Scholarship at Notre Dame—1959
Frederick S. Beckman
Investigates crafts and product design in Northern
Europe as well as the renaissance of crafts in the
United States for their total impact on an industrial
culture.
C. A. Biondo
Translator of the one and only authoritative book
on the stylistic history of violin performance by the
German scholar, Andreas Moser.
VIVIFYING THE HUMAN SPIRIT
Some Educators
Their Pedagogical Predilections
Willis D. Nutting
Here is concern for the impediments placed by the
contemporary university system and its scholarly
ideals in the way of educating men to be wise.
Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C.
Preliminary to revision of Notre Dame’s approach
to teacher education is a study of selected programs
in other universities.
Bernard J. Kohlbrenner
Specializes in the role of Catholic education in
America and a historical review of its contribution
to national life and culture.
Anthony C. Riccio
A counselor educator self-impelled to examine the
theoretical foundations of the student guidance move-
ment and to measure the attitude of college students
toward their image of themselves.
Jerome J. Fargen
Discovers the potentially academically outstanding
ten per cent of each enrolling class at Notre Dame to
determine the probable causes of the usual lower-
than-expected academic performance of about one-
third of this group.
Some Literati
Their Love Affairs with the
Written Word
Francis E. Moran
Milton and the 17th-century world of English liter-
ature is set aside for the moment to work out a
critical essay on Dicken’s novel, Great Expectations.
Louis Hasley
Has a conception of beliefs in literature based on
the techniques by which an author reveals his own
beliefs in imaginative literature.
Professor Ivan Mestrovic, member of the Notre Dame faculty
and recognized as the greatest living sculptor on religious art.
Jerome Taylor
Completed is a book: Hugh of St. Victor’s Didas-
calicon, or Study of Reading; projected is a study
of the versions or images in contemporary Christian
criticism of literature.
Paul E. McLane
Dwells on the religious, political and personal al-
legory and satire in Spenser’s poetry and dramatic
“toni” in Shakespearian drama.
Robert M. Browne
Degree of applicability of modem structural linguis-
tics and traditional rhetorical analysis to the criti-
cism of poetry.
Alvan S. Ryan
The great Victorian prose writers expound views
of the past and use these interpretations as vehicles
of their thought. To explore this facet of Victorian
literature, a book-length study of the differing
images of the past found in Carlyle, Newman, Ruskin,
Arnold. Mill and Pater is attempted.
Ernest E. Sandeen
Poet and literary critic in American literature with
a study of Henry James, Walt Whitman and other
19th- and 20th-century American writers well
advanced.
Mortimer J. Donovan
Literary historian carried back to a medieval literary
genre found in France and England between 1170
and 1400 and to manuscripts of a Roman poem read
by poets in the medieval schools.
8
NOTRE DAME
Research and Scholarship at Notre Dame —1959
Some Linguists
Some Language Lore
William H. Bennett
Germanic linguist probing and translating classics in
the Gothic language.
John Fizer
Focuses on Russian materials to reveal Communist
Party regimentation in fields of literature, literary
scholarship and esthetics.
Henry Hare Carter
Fifth in a series of medieval texts now in preparation
is a paleographical edition of a medieval, unedited
Portuguese Grail manuscript.
Some Communicators
Their Media
Edward A. Fischer
Journalist and critic influencing contemporary
mores by presenting in book and journal practical
standards for motion picture and television criticism.
Thomas J. Stritch
Mass communication researcher interested in film
history and criticism; in art and its role in
journalism.
Rev. A. S. Harvey, C.S.C.
The living stage is his medium for expressing the
tragedy and joy of the human condition.
ORGANIZING AND MOLLIFYING
THE HUMAN SPIRIT
Some Sociologists
Their Views of Our World
John J. Kane
The comparative impact of college education on the
Dr. Stephen Kertesz, former Hungarian minister, has been
Chairman of the University’s Committee on International
Relations since 1955.
values cherished by students in secular and religious
schools is beyond the pilot study stage.
Julian Samora
The socio-cultural aspects of medicine particularly as
they apply to the underprivileged Spanish-Americans
of the southwest lead to many thoughtful journal
articles.
William Vincent D’Antonio
Study of “influentials,” the sources and solutions of
issues and social mobility especially in communities
and health systems with Spanish-speaking leaders.
Donald N. Barrett
Empirical methods are used to assemble data, in one
study, on the effects of financial penalties for crime
and, in another, on the structure of the Catholic pop-
ulation of the United States.
The Modern Languages laboratory at Notre Dame.
Some Political Scientists
Their Critiques
Stephen Kertesz
Energetic and inspired leader of the Committee on
International Relations with its research on the diplo-
macy relevant to the current East-West conflict.
John J. Kennedy
Scholarly commentator on the Latin American politi-
cal scene with special interest in charting the progress
of freedom and democracy in these troubled nations.
Gerhart Niemeyer
Taken up with the total critique of society^ the study
of the intellectual and spiritual forces behind the
9
Research and Scholarship at Notre Dame—1959
total rejection of today’s society by communists, an-
archists and other contemporary revolutionists.
Paul C. Bartholomew
Eloquent exponent in books and articles of American
constitutional government, the Anglo-Saxon common
law and the political values of democratic society.
Some Economists
Their Views of the Market Place
Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C.
Absorbed in the study of industrial relations in the
European coal and steel community; also in the in-
terpretation of Mr. Justice Reed’s decisions involving
the American economy.
John T. Croteau
Varied topics include tax problems of mutual finan-
cial institutions; credit union growth, liquidity, earn-
ings and other operational problems.
John H. Sheehan
Everyman’s economist devoted to the study of family
economics and personal finance—for publication in a
form usable by the average consumer.
Paul A. Montavon
Concerned about income distribution, he searches for
an integrated approach to the problem consistent
with the price theory on the one hand, and with the
theory of aggregate shares on the other.
Warren J. Bilkey
Making five waves of cross-sectional interviews of 60
South Bend families to ascertain their psychological
reaction to consumer goods purchases to gain an in-
sight into the effect of purchases, income, and prices
on their consumption behavior.
Some Entrepreneurial Pedagogues
Their Research in Business
and Management
Raymond P. Kent
Sometime author of Money and Banking text about
finished with another on Corporate Financial Man-
apement.
o
Herbert E. Sim
Exploring empirical economic research to illuminate
such problems as local mass transportation, local
business indicators and impact of local government
structure on business.
Ching-wen Kwang
In the modem spirit of interdisciplinary research is
the study of the application of mathematical pro-
graming to the theory of the firm.
10 NOTRE DAME
The Mediaeval Institute is one of the world’s most promising
projects for higher study and research. Rev. Astrik Gabriel
(right) serves as director.
Vincent R. Raymond
Proposes a depth study of the management training
needs of small business managers with an accompany-
ing conceptual scheme dealing with small business
managerial development.
Salvatore J. Bella
The pattern of union-management relations in a de-
centralized multiplant company is the subject of a
study now in the writing stage.
Richard M. Lyon
Lawyer searching for effective ways to instruct com-
merce students in the intricacies of administrative
law and the legal aspects of business. Also pushing
for judicial reform in Indiana through abolition of
the Justice of the Peace courts and of politically ap-
pointed judges.
Some Lawyers
Their Scholarly Lives "Under
God and the Law11
Anton-Hermann Chroust
Early American legal profession comes to life in a
series of studies. Also original thoughts about the
o	o
philosophy of Plato in books and articles reflect his
basic philosophical bent.
W. D. Rollison
Progenitor of a unique and valuable synthesis in text
form of the law of estate planning cutting across the
traditional fields of wills, trusts and future interests.
Roger P. Peters
Specialist in taxation and constitutional law vigi-
lantly reviewing developments in these subjects with
frequent commentaries in the professional journals.
John J. Broderick
Law of evidence with its myriad technicalities espe-
cially as related to the use of expert medical witnesses
and psychiatric testimony is his forte.
Research and Scholarship at Notre Dame—1959
Harris L. Wofford, Jr.
Visiting professor appraising the work of the Civil
Rights Commission based on his experiences as a
legal assistant to Father Hesburgh during his term
as a Commissioner.
Thomas F. Broden, Jr.
Co-author of a treatise on social security law entail-
ing a detailed examination of all applicable federal
and state laws.
Edward J. Murphy
Panoramic view of the field of contracts is assayed
to discover modern trends and a history of the doc-
trine of estoppel is in progress from which may be
divined some reasons for the amazing vitality of the
Common law.
Conrad Kellenberg
Deeply involved with a treatise on real property law
begun during last year’s tenure as a Sterling Fellow
at Yale Law School.
Above is one of the University’s electro-static generators used
for experimentation in atomic research.
Bernard J. Ward
Dedicated to elucidation of the role of the United
States Supreme Court in the American constitutional
system.
PIONEERS ON THE NEW FRONTIERS
OF SCIENCE
Some Life Scientisfs
Their Biological Expeditions
Ralph E. Thorson
Engages in a comparative study of the enzyme sys-
tems and other substances of physiological activity
in various nematodes to determine the role of these
substances in creating protective immunity in the
host.
Rev. C. S. Bachofer, C.S.C.
Studies the reactions of nerve trunks of selected
animals and plants to X-rays, beta rays and ultra-
violet radiation with measurement of action poten-
tials, impulse propagation rates, sensitivity and re-
fractoriness to radiation stimulus.
Thomas G. Ward
Energetic pursuit of a vaccine against mild respira-
tory disease along with germfree animal studies on
viral status, aging, incidence of cancer and effects
of burns.
P. C. Trexler
Ingenious inventor and developer of contamination
control apparatus and methods to provide sterile
environments for animals and for testing and manu-
facturing pharmaceuticals. Also a student of the
relationship between animals and their associated
microbic flora.
B. S. Wostmann
Biochemist and nutritionist deeply engrossed with the
influence of a normal or pathological flora on the
host animal with emphasis on the biochemical
mechanisms underlying body defenses and on the
role of the flora in nutrition.
Helmut A. Gordon
Finds challenge in the study of the morphology and
physiology of Notre Dame’s unique germfree animals
with emphasis on the role of the bacterial flora in
the host-contaminant relationship.
Morris Wagner
Collaborator in the host contaminant studies of
germfree animals with a special interest in identify-
ing the microorganisms specifically responsible for
dental caries and periodontal disease.
Gerd T. A. Benda
Hirsute micro-manipulator of plant cells determined
to find out if and how they heal their own wounds.
Rev. James Doll, C.S.C.
Now applying radioisotope techniques to study the
mechanism by which animals are able to clear labeled
organic and inorganic invaders from the blood
stream.
Kenyon S. Tweedell
A major effort centers on the study of a transmis-
sible kidney tumor of the frog using ultraviolet radia-
tion and radioisotope techniques.
George B. Craig, Jr.
A medical entomologist with a comprehensive study
of the genetics of Aedes Aegypti, a species of mos-
quito, in progress.
11
Research and Scholarship at Notre Dame —1959
The Department of Chemistry and. the Radiation offer excellent
facilities for research.
John W. Mihelich
His nuclear spectroscopy of rare earth nuclides aims
to fill in the gaps of knowledge about their proper-
ties at high energy levels.
D.	W. Juenker
Examines the fundamental processes involved in the
external photoelectric effect in metals and semi-
conductors.
R. L. Anthony and
Alex. A. Pefrauskas
Information about the internal motion and structure
of molecules is being derived from studies of ultra-
sonic attentuation in low molecular weight liquids.
Emerson G. Funkz Jr.
Decay schemes of radioactive nuclei are explored to
determine the ordering of the energy levels and the
characteristics of these levels.
Robert E. Gordon
Editor of Notre Dame’s American Midland Naturalist
who finds time to study locomotive activity in
selected animals as a guide to possible existence of
rhythmic cycles related to species survival.
Robert P. McIntosh
Finds intriguing the structure and organization of
plant communities with a specific field project in the
Catskill Mountain region.
George R. Bernard
Products of metabolism excreted in the urine of
infected hamsters and turkeys and the function of
the rectal gland are two subjects currently being
pursued.
Some Physical Scientists
Their Forays Among Molecules.
Atoms, Nuclei, Particles
E.	A. Coomes
Solid solid-state physicist elaborating the mechanics
of crystal growth, surface emission characteristics of
crystals, matrix mechanics of electrical transport in
polyphase systems and other related phenomena.
C. J. Mullin
Describes his work, generally, as the study of inter-
actions of photons and particles with nuclei, and,
specifically, as the study of radiation from high-
energy electrons, their scattering and the properties
of light nuclei.
Bernard Waldman
Using Notre Dame’s medium energy accelerator,
nuclear excitation by radiation is studied while design
work on the high energy colliding beam accelerator
for Midwestern University Research Associates
continues.
G. F. D’Alelio
An organic and polymer chemist with a wide range
of interest in new organic compounds including heat
resistant and high energy polymers and in the effects
of radiation on polymers especially those, such as
proteins, associated with living organisms.
Milton Burton
A physical chemist directing and conducting mani-
fold research projects probing the elementary proc-
esses involved in radiation chemistry.
Charles E. Brambel
A biochemist deeply engrossed with blood clotting,
the development of chemical agents to control blood
hemorrhage, effects of vitamin K deficiency on the
hemostatic mechanism, and effects of continuous low
level radiation on mammals.
Bro. Columba Curran, C.S.C.
A series of studies including infrared and ultraviolet
absorption measurements of reactions between co-
ordination compounds of metal halides and halide
ions in the solid state; dielectric and spectroscopic
studies of hydrogen bonding in various organic com-
pounds containing N-H and O-H bonds.
San-ichiro Mizushima
Visitor from Japan concentrating on structure of
molecules by investigation of infrared, Raman and
ultraviolet spectra.
George F. Hennion
Carrying on a Notre Dame tradition in acetylene
chemistry started by Father Nieuwland to synthesize
new compounds of potential interest in the drug
field.
John L. Magee
Backs up radiation experiments with appropriate
theoretical studies now heavily concentrated on radi-
ation initiated reactions in the gas phase.
12
NOTRE DAME
Research and Scholarship at Notre Dame —1959
William H. Hamill
Physical chemist with several current interests such
as: mass spectrometric observations of ion-molecule
interactionsj radiation chemistry of organic liquids;
diffusion kinetics in liquids at high pressures.
Patrick A. McCusker
Observation of new reactions and syntheses of new
compounds are sought in studies of the dispropor-
tionation and other reactions of organoboron and
organosilicon compounds.
Ernest L. Eliel
An organic chemist does conformational analysis of
simple cyclohexane derivatives to determine the re-
lationship of their properties and reactivity to their
geometric shape. Also studies the mechanism of free-
radical aromatic substitution.
Rudolph S. Bottei
Thermal and structural properties of inorganic
polymers and of organometallic compounds and
organic functional group analysis are his research
preoccupations.
Emil T. Hofman
Director of chemistry teacher training summer insti-
tute also studies the preparation and properties of
chelating resins.
Vincent J. Traynelis
Finds himself attempting the synthesis of novel
heterocyclic systems and also the study of certain
reaction mechanisms such as are involved in the
reaction of 2- and 4- picoline N-oxide with acetic
anhydride.
Richard C. Pilger, Jr.
Investigates nuclear decay schemes of various mem-
bers of the actinium natural decay series — nuclides
noted for their complexity.
Rev. Thomas J. Lane, C.S.C.
Engages in chelate formation studies of a group of
heterocyclic compounds of interest in biology and
medicine. Also studies aminoacid and protein metal
complexes.
James P. Danehy
An organic chemist launching studies of the reactions
of alkyl phosphites with organic disulfides.
Some Earth Scientists
Their Intriguing Proclivities
Raymond C. Gutschick
Concentrates on Early Mississippian paleontology
and micro-paleontology in Indiana, Arizona, Mon-
tana, and other places to gain an understanding of
the stratigraphy, environments, evolution, correla-
tion and other geologically interesting characteristics.
Erhard M. Winkler
Teams with his wife, a commercial pilot, to take
color air photos for interpretation of glacial drifts.
Isidore Hodes, (above), is a physical scientist in the College of
Engineering. His field is “bridging the gap between electro-
magnetic theory and its engineering applications.”
William M. Fairley
Sequence of formation, structures and metamorphic
zones in pre-Cambrian rock units are determined by
field mapping, and petrographic studies.
Rev. Michael J. Murphy, C.S.C.
Resorts to specific gravity, optical tests and X-ray
methods to study substitutions in the mineral series
“wulferite-stolzite” and “geocronite.”
o
Some Mathematicians
Their Sophisticated Precisions
Arnold E. Ross
Busy director of many special educational programs
with time for study of the minima of the indefinite
fernery quadratic forms with real coefficients.
Vladimir Seidel
Of current interest are the conditions under which
meromorphic functions in the unit circle approach
a definite limit as the argument approaches a point
of the circumference continuously.
Ky Fan
Topologist and functional analyst working with con-
vex sets in topological vector spaces; absolute retracts
and absolute neighborhood retracts; extension of
mappings and of homotopies.
Hans Julius Zassenhaus
Prolific scholar with current books and papers on
semi-class groups in algebraic number fields, applica-
tion of Lie-algebra in finite group theory, represen-
tation theory, and linear algebra and projective
geometry.
Richard Otter
Now looks at probability theory, especially its asymp-
totic laws; and function theory, especially unbounded
functions on the unit circle.
13
Research and Scholarship at Notre Dame —1959
Some Engineers
Their Creative Applications
of Science
F.	N. M. Brown
Tamer of turbulence in a unique smoke tunnel yield-
ing sharp pictures of airflow, the means by which
the mechanism of transition from laminar to turbu-
lent flow within the zero gradient boundary layer
might be discovered.
Allen S. Smith
Expert in the application to pollution problems of
the measurement of adsorption and vapor-liquid
equilibrium of ternery systems, the correlation and
evaluation of their thermodynamic properties. A more
specific interest is pickle liquor disposal and acid re-
covery in the manufacture of steel.
Ernest J. Wilhelm
Investigates possible development of an electrochem-
ical method for evaluating the control of galvanic
o	o
corrosion by corrosion inhibitors.
James P. Kohn
Searches for a simplified model of the liquid state
using phase and volumetric approaches particularly
near the critical points where liquid and vapor are
identical. Also by diffusion studies of spherical tops
(methane molecules) he studies the mean free path
in the liquid state.
Steponas Kolupaila
Caps his professional career with compilation of a
bibliography on hydrometry from a unique file of
book and journal article references accumulated here
and abroad over the past forty years.
Leroy D. Graves
His research attempts to establish a mathematical
relation between the physical properties of soil and
the movement of footings and piles under load.
Prof. Newman (left) and observer inspect sub-critical nuclear
reactor in Nuclear Engineering Department.
Commerce students using modem desk computers, increasingly
important tools in business and management.
Harold E. Ellithorn
Electrical engineer wrapped up in the analysis of
nonlinear electrical elements and circuits and energy
considerations for electrical relays.
Arthur J. Quigley
Collaborator in the physical electronics laboratory of
the Physics Department specializing in the study of
surface phenomena of solids such as tungsten.
Isidore Hodes
A physical scientist and engineer bridging the gap
between electromagnetic theory and its engineering
applications particularly in advanced microwave de-
tection apparatus.
Clyde Hoffman
Analog and digital computer specialist with an in-
terest in both theory and development as typified by
the creation of stability diagrams for nonlinear sys-
tems.
O. G. Strandhagen
Engineering scientist generating new knowledge about
the hydrodynamics of shaped bodies on or beneath
the surface of heavy fluids through measurement
of hydrodynamic forces and moments and through
formulation of new concepts of cavitation and venti-
lation.
M. O. Peach
Takes the engineering science approach to such
studies as structural dislocations in aluminum and
the separation of elastic and plastic states in solids.
Lawrence H. N. Lee
The cylindrical, thin-walled shell—the classical struc-
ture of the missile age—is subjected to theoretical
and experimental study under combined axial com-
pression and lateral pressure in the inelastic range.
Yan-Po Chang
Pioneering a new approach to the mechanism and
theory of turbulent flow with further specific interest
in the heat transfer and critical conditions in nucleate
and in film boiling of importance in nuclear reactor
design and operation.
14
NOTRE DAME
Research and Scholarship at Notre Dame —1959
Prof. Frank N. M. Brown (seated) and group observe the
photographing of airflow in a smoke tunnel.
Marcel K. Newman
Leader of a nuclear engineering program in the
Mechanical Engineering Department, he is also
deeply involved in the studies of wave propagation
and energy dissipation in solid materials.
C. Robert Egry
Industrial engineer using time and motion studies as
the basis for improving the efficiency of industrial
operations.
E. W. Jerger
A thermodynamicist with research interest and ex-
perience in the analysis and testing of temperature
sensing devices based on considerations of energy con-
version and the behavior of liquid, solid and gas
systems in extreme temperature ranges.
Kwang-Tzu Yang
Another thermodynamicist primarily interested in
heat transfer including study of unsteady laminar
boundary layers in compressible flows; nonlinear heat
conduction involving property-temperature variation
and movable boundaries; heat transfer in duct flows
with and without surface suction or injection; and
unsteady free convection with arbitrary surface tem-
perature variation.
Stanley S. Thomas
A design engineer, he has interests that include the
experimental techniques involved in metal displace-
ment and in failure producing phenomena; also
gaseous diffusion through welded metals.
Francis H. Raven
Styles himself as a control engineer, kinematician
and machine designer. His current research is on
equilibrium and transient behavior of flow through
series orifices. He also studies fundamental problems
in kinematic synthesis as a basis for establishing de-
sign requirements of control systems including mate-
rials and performance requirements.
Michael A. DeCicco
Heat transfer specialist applying advanced experi-
mental techniques and theory to evaluation of com-
ponents of air conditioning and refrigeration systems.
Ettore A. Peretti
Head of the Department of Metallurgical Engineer-
ing, studies phase relationships in systems involving
semiconductors to develop basic data for growing
crystals from the melt and to develop new intermetal-
lic types as semiconductors for thermoelectric appli-
cations.
George C. Kuczynski
A solid state physicist with a wide range of interests.
He directs research that includes order-disorder phe-
nomena in alloys, sintering of oxides of sulphides,
photomechanical effects in semiconductors, effect of
F-centers on mechanical properties of solids and sin-
tering and crystallization of polymers.
Bernard D. Cullity
Physical metallurgist with research in progress to
study the effect of preferred orientation on mechani-
cal properties of metals, residual stress in metals by
X-ray diffraction, effect of magnetic field on stress
relaxation and effect of residual stress on magnetic
hysteresis losses.
Charles W. Allen
Another physical metallurgist, collaborates closely
with Professor Kuczynski on the interaction of color
centers in alkali halides as a means of assessing the
role of the surface of crystals in the plastic deforma-
tion process. Also he studies the effects of various
kinds of radiation and of electric fields on the me-
chanical properties of semiconductors.
Paul Jacques Grillo
Architect, who colorfully calls himself a human ecolo-
gist, now finishing a book, What Is Design? and
projecting a Geophysical Survey of Culture.
Ernest H. Brandl
With the aid and encouragement of the American
hierarchy, lovingly resurrecting the 19th-century
American cathedrals in all their architectural and
historical significance for our Catholic cultural
heritage.
IBM 704 digital computer installed elsewhere but typical of
the expensive tools of modern research needed here.
15

Preoccupation with, money may indeed be a sordid
matter in some human affairs. But when money becomes
the seed of creativity planted with care and affection by
expert gardeners in the fertile imaginations of a univer-
sity faculty, then it promises a precious flowering of the
scholarly life with rewards in beauty and knowledge for
all mankind. Fortunately, Notre Dame is privileged to
be one of the many gardens in which this seed is in-
creasingly planted.
The expert gardeners are, of course, the private cor-
porations, the philanthropic foundations and government
agencies supporting research. The seed they have planted
in selected years from 1949 to 1959 is weighed in the ac-
companying chart.
and support the basic work in problems of mutual inter-
est by faculty members of universities including Notre
Dame.
Foundations and Private Contributors to Research
Most philanthropic foundations have established a
policy not to support research heavily funded by public
agencies. They conceive their role primarily as one of
stimulating scholarship in a way to preserve a balance
between the natural sciences, the social sciences, the arts
and the humanities. With heavy support of the natural
sciences by the federal government, the foundations nat-
urally concentrate their support on the social sciences, the
arts and the humanities. Development of the kind of
collaborative and interdisciplinary research most favored
for support by the larger foundations is yet in an em-
bryonic stage at Notre Dame. Typical are the Ford Foun-
dation supported Committee on International Relations
and the Rockefeller Foundation supported East European
studies involving members of the political science, history
and modem language departments. Notre Dame’s future
with the foundations rests squarely on the competence,
imagination and desire of her faculty.
Federal Government
National defense, health, education and the general
welfare are all compelling reasons for the federal govern-
ment’s ever-increasing dedication of tax money to the
support of research. The accelerated pace of this federal
support at Notre Dame is pointed up by the 1959 ex-
penditures of $1,395,900 of federally provided money
compared to only $265,100 in 1949. Also remarkable in
the pattern of federal research support at Notre Dame is
the progressive emergence of the Atomic Energy Commis-
sion, National Institutes of Health and National Science
Foundation as heavy contributors. Whereas together these
agencies accounted for only $25,600 or 9.6% of the total
in 1949 (NSF had not yet been established), in 1959 they
had jumped to $984,900 and 70% of the federal total.
Corporations
Over the past eleven years, corporation support of
research at Notre Dame has not broken far beyond the
one-hundred-thousand-dollar-a-year mark. The reasons
for this are many. They include corporation policies that
restrict research support to projects with a high degree
of early applicability to the corporation’s products where-
as the University tends to encourage basic research. They
|	include also a reluctance on the part of faculty to become
|	involved in projects the lives of which are often termi-
|	nated by changes in corporate managements or by un-
J	predictable, short term swings in corporate earnings. This
J	reluctance is abetted by the increasing availability of
I	funds from foundations and government agencies with
|	*	reasonably assured longevity.
1A break in the pattern of corporate support of re-
search may have been presaged during the 1958 recession
by the action of many companies in broadening the base
|	of their research effort despite reduced earnings. Cer-
|	tainly these companies gave research a vote of confidence
|	as the means of creating new products and new appli-
I	cations for future expansion. In this day and age it is a
I	truism to say that research is the life blood of the tech-
nological industries. More and more they will appreciate
Atomic Energy
Commission
The Atomic Energy Commission supports research
projects in Chemistry, Physics, Metallurgical Engineering,
Engineering Science, Mechanical Engineering and Biol-
ogy. It provides funds for the specialized and expensive
equipment used in the Radiation Project, in radiation
biology and in the nuclear engineering training program
of the Department of Mechanical Engineering. Probably
the largest organization of its kind on a University cam-
pus, the Radiation Project accounts for a major portion
of the AEG funds in its research on the effects of radia-
tion on matter. Recently the Commission has favorably
received the University’s proposal for construction on
the campus of a two million dollar laboratory to house
the Radiation Project. A decision awaits establishment
of a national policy with respect to the use of federal
funds for such a purpose.
16
NOTRE DAME
National Institutes
of Health
The National Institutes of Health in the U.S. Public
Health Service is charged by Congress with the mission
of engaging in research and training related to health
and the medical arts. These Institutes administer an
extensive research program. NIH sponsored research at
Notre Dame includes work in Lobund (germfree life),
Chemistry and Biology. In October of this year alone,
proposals in excess of $600,000 were submitted to NIH
for a variety of research and training programs to extend
over the next five years. There is no doubt that NIH
will become an increasingly important source of research
support for faculty with appropriate capabilities and in-
terests.
National Science
Foundation
NSF is the most recently created government agency
charged with the mission of stimulating and supporting
scientific research. It is set up in two divisions: one, to
support research, and, the other, to support improvement
and expansion of education in science.
On the research side, NSF receives project proposals
from scientists and makes awards, for support up to five
years, after review and approval by advisors and the Na-
tional Science Board. This screening of proposals by ad-
visors results currently in support of about 40% of the
proposals received. At Notre Dame NSF supported re-
search projects are active in the Chemistry, Mathematics,
Biology, Lobund, Mechanical Engineering, Civil Engi-
neering and Metallurgical Engineering departments.
On the science education side, NSF supports a va-
riety of teacher training institutes and special programs.
At Notre Dame, NSF is supporting teacher training in-
stitutes in the Mathematics and Chemistry departments;
also an undergraduate research participation program in
geology, a research participation program for high school
and college teachers in the Radiation Project and a gifted
high school student program in Mathematics.
University participation in the NSF program seems to
be keeping pace with the steady growth and increasing
importance of that agency.
Office of
Naval Research
The steady, high level support by the Office of Naval
Research of Notre Dame’s programs reflects a mutuality
of interest that reaches back to the Navy research or-
ganizations of World War II that preceded ONR. Of
course ONR is the archtype of the ideal basic research
supporting agencies of the federal government. NIH and
NSF were both patterned after ONR and, in the latter
case, heavily staffed by ONR personnel.
ONR continues to support research projects in Phy-
sics, Metallurgical Engineering, Geology and Lobund.
That the level of support has not increased radically over
the past eleven years reflects more than anything else the
fact that ONR’s basic research funds have not increased
significantly over this period.
Other Federal Agencies
Mention should be made of the Army Surgeon Gen-
eral’s support of projects in Chemistry and Lobund; of
Air Force support through Wright Air Development Cen-
ter of radiation studies in the Radiation Project; of the
Navy’s Bureau of Ordnance support of work in Aeronau-
tical Engineering.
RESEARCH EXPENDITURES —1949-1959
SPONSORS	1949	1952	1955	1958	1959
Corporations 						—	$129,200	$ 61,700	$ 58,100	$ 103,100	$ 115,100
Foundations and Private Contributors					
to Research 						6,400	84,000	113,800	116,400	115,400
Federal Government:					
Atomic Energy Commission 		19,900	121,500	218,200	357,400	501,200
Bureau of Standards							* — — .	22,000							....
Department of the Air Force 					35,000	19,500	23,600	36,500
Department of the Army 				1,800	34,000	128,300	39,500	78,900
Department of the Navy			205,400	281,900	258,200	249,500	295,600
Nat’l. Adv. Comm, for Aeronautics	32,300	5,000	-		-.		....
National Institutes of Health 		5,700	9,100	35,400	142,000	245,900
National Science Foundation 		. — - -	• • . .	9,800	112,100	237,800
Total Government 				265,100	508,500	669,400	924,100	1,395,900
TOTAL SPONSORED RESEARCH 			$400,700	$654,200	$841,300	$1,143,600	$1,626,400
17
't .

*
% >
«
4 *
t
MM

NOTRE DAME’S DESIRE
NOTRE DAME’S DOLLARS

Some Hard Facts
About Research ...
The strength of Notre Dame’s conviction that faculty
research and scholarship are an essential part of her
drive toward excellence is graphically portrayed in the
picture presented here of the ever increasing expendi-
tures for these purposes. The $1,272,700 spent by
the University in all the colleges in 1958 represents an
amount equivalent to tuition of approximately one-
fourth of the entire undergraduate student body. It also
exceeds the $1,143,600 provided by the private and
public sponsors of faculty research.
The University makes its contribution to research
in two special ways: one, by reducing the teaching
Dr. John Fizer (right) and Dr. Eugene Pyziur are members of
the Center for Soviet and East European Studies in the De-
partment of Political Science.
18 NOTRE DAME
loads of the faculty thus giving them time and encourage-
ment to develop their personal scholarly careers and, two,
by making available major physical resources for this
purpose. For instance, few people fully realize the de-
mands of research for library facilities and for specialized
books and journals. Also characteristic of the Uni-
versity’s involvement is the use of every obscure nook
and cranny in the academic buildings for housing the
tools of modern research. Many a laboratory has a
blackboard wall to memorialize the fact that it was
originally intended as a classroom. More efficient class
scheduling over a longer working day has made possible
this diversion of classroom space to research use.
The University’s sponsorship of research and scholar-
ship in the College of Arts and Letters approaches the
level in the College of Science. This stems from Notre
Dame’s determination to preserve a balance in its
academic life in keeping with its tradition as a liberal
arts school.
In Science, on the other hand, every University dol-
lar is matched by two from outside sponsors. The
University’s contribution to research in science is the
foundation of a program that continues to grow espe-
cially rapidly under the stimulus of the national interest
in promoting scientific research.
The relatively smaller University research contribu-
tions to Engineering, Commerce and Law reflect some
of the uncertainties about what constitutes research in
these professional disciplines and how it should be or-
ganized. The present deans of these Colleges are lead-
ing their faculties into significant programs compatible
with their interests and capabilities. The next two years
will see dynamic research of increasing importance in
engineering, commerce and law.
A crucial point related to the financial well-being of
the University as affected by its research aspirations is
also illustrated in this chart of research expenditures.
Every dollar contributed by sponsors spawns a need
for a dollar from the University. Granted that more
opportunities for personal research and scholarship must
be provided a faculty developed to or acquired at in-
creasingly higher level of capability, then it becomes
clearly a major burden and responsibility of the Univer-
sity to generate the necessary financial support. Neither
the federal government nor the private sponsors can
solve this problem. Only the unrestricted giving of our
alumni, friends and benefactors can sustain Notre Dame
in this and her other commitments to excellence.
*
fa
V • ?
MMMcma
. * * «
JhWiiHW

Research Expenditures
1949-1950

SPONSORS
UNIVSRSITX
£
UI
UI
<4
g
Ui
3
LU
UI
1949
■4

■■
LZ>
Ui
L>
Z
UI
UI
1952
Ui
UI
5
ui
&
UI
Z
ui
z
at
UI
u>
u»
J955
g
UJ
3
S

*
	

	
	
	
	
	
	
	$1	500,000
	1	400,000
	1	300,000
	1	200,000
	1	100,000
	1	000,000
		900,000
		800,000
		700,000|
		600,000
		500,000
		400,000
		300,000
		200,000


Ui
Ui
$2500,000
$2^16,300
$2,000,000
¥«
a
II
100,000
$1,600,000	
	
	
	
	
	
$1,000,000	
	$916,400
	/* \	" hf:
	. Zs,	4!
$607,800	
-	' z z r
	
	
	
-	
;	f		
$1,891,200
I .
Wi.'

uu
s
m
in
tn
$
1958
ALL COLLAS
■______ „J
RESEARC
Notre Dame
at
C-
Scientific research at Notn
has been dramatically highlighted
Mr
sd^ard J
Tracey, Jr.
306 Sunrise Terraee-
State College. Pa
aeronautics



«3
MEDIAEVAL
INSTITUTE


in the past with notable achievements. Some of these include Father Nieuw-
land’s formula for synthetic rubber and the sending of the first wireless
message in America by Professor Green. More recent experiments in laboratories
and workshops have been concerned with dental caries, cancer, heart disease and
amoebic dysentery in Lobund's germfree center; with supersonic tests in the
Department of Aeronautical Engineering; and, with peacetime applications
of atomic energy.
Other research at Notre Dame is related to the humanities, law, and the social sciences. The Mediaeval
Institute has been a fascinating development in higher education which seeks to translate the underlying prin-
ciples of Christian civilization into the language of contemporary men. The Natural Law Forum and the Maritain
Center are significant and distinctive research projects which have made influential contributions to the intel-
lectual life.
in Notre Dame’s current ten-year $66.6 million program, $11,000,000 has been allocated for research.
Alumni and non-alumni friends are invited to help provide the financial means which will further the Univer-
sity’s academic excellence and realize its hopes for the future.
NOTRE
DAME’S
1958-67
PROGRAM
I. Enactment tc- Increased Faculty Salaries__________$27,000,000
2.	Centric .tians for Researcn____________________ 11,000,000
3.	Student Ata ___________________________________ 5,000,000
4.	Special Funds? tor Administrative Purposes— 5,000,000
5.	I lew Buildings________________________________ 18,600,000
Additions to
a) Commerce ----------$ 500,000
b> Law --------------- 500.000
c) Engineering ------- 500,000
Library_________________ 5,000,000
(2) Graduate Halls________ 2,500,000
Priests' Faculty Building_ 1,500,000
Maintenance Center________ 600,000
Auditorium _______________ 3,500,000
Fieldhouse _____________ 4,000,000
TOTAL $66,600,000