------->.--------lA- ■........................................___i-----------------—:—^a-^.-------------------------------------------------------- >. .: 
FATHER HESBURGH RECEIVES U.C.LA. DEGREE
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of
Notre Dame, received an honorary Doctor of Laws degree
at the annual Charter Day ceremonies of the University of
California at Los Angeles on April 2.
HOLD ESTATE PLANNING SYMPOSIUM
The University of Notre Dame sponsored a symposium
in New York City on May 24 on “The Creative Con-
servation of Wealth Through Estate Planning and Its
Relationship To Private Higher Education.”
More than 150 lawyers, tax specialists, insurance
executives, trust officers and others engaged in estate
planning activities attended the symposium at the Wal-
dorf-Astoria Hotel. Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., Notre
Dame vice-president for public relations and development,
was the symposium moderator, as well as host at a
reception and dinner preceding the symposium.
Addressing the estate planning parley were Harold
Swartz, Assistant Commissioner of Internal Revenue —
Technical, Washington, D.C., and James F. Thornburg,
South Bend, Ind., attorney, estate planning specialist and
tax counsel to the Notre Dame Foundation.
TUITION INCREASE ANNOUNCED
Undergraduate tuition at the University of Notre
Dame will be $1,500 per academic year effective next
September, an increase of $50 a semester.
Also beginning next fall, tuition in the Notre Dame
Law School and the University’s Graduate School will
be increased $200 to $1,200 for the academic year.
Graduate and law school tuition had remained at $1,000
since the 1959-60 school year.
THEOLOGY MAJOR OPENS IN FALL
Notre Dame will inaugurate an undergraduate major
in theology next fall, according to Rev. Albert Schlitzer,
C.S.C., head of the theology department.
While the department has always offered “service
courses” in theology to students in the University’s four
undergraduate colleges, it will now be possible for the first
time for a lay student to earn a Bachelor of Arts degree
in theology at Notre Dame, Fathei’ Schlitzer explained
He said the new sequence of studies will prepare youn;
men for graduate work in theology, for teaching theolog
in colleges and universities and for “a challenging am
rewarding career in the intellectual and social activities o
the Church.”
The core of the major sequence will consist of 2Z
credit hours in theology during the junior and senior years
Included will be special courses in biblical and systematit
theology as well as other courses structured with a view o
showing Christian theology in the making, major trend;
in contemporary theology and the history of religions.
The undergraduate theology major, Father Schlitzei
said, will give the student an appreciation of the con-
tinuity of Christian tradition and values in the history ol
Western culture and develop an understanding of Chris-
tian faith in the light of modem biblical research and
contemporary theological thought. Creation of the new
major will strengthen Notre Dame’s general program in
the humanities and the theology department itself, he
said. “Theology must achieve its proper place among the
humanities at a university if it expects to be taken seri-
ously,” he concluded.
LANGFORD ON PEACE CORPS PANEL
Professor Walter M. Langford, of the department of
modern languages at Notre Dame, participated in a con-
ference of Peace Corps Contractors at Estes Park, Colo-
rado, in March.
Langford, who has directed summer Peace Corps train-
ing programs at Notre Dame in 1961 and 1964 and who
directed the first group of Peace Corps volunteers in Chile
from 1961 to 1963, appeared on a panel exploring “Long
Range and Continuing Relationships between the Con-
tracting Institutions, the Peace Corps and the Peace Corps
Volunteers.”
DANFORTH AWARD TO TWO
Two Notre Dame seniors have been awarded fellow-
ships for up to four years of graduate study by the Dan-
forth Foundation of Saint Louis, Missouri.
They are Dale Robert Althoff, 517 37th Street, Rapid
City, S. Dak., and William James Langan, 511 Eastern
Parkway, Brooklyn, N.Y. Althoff and Langan have ma-
jored in philosophy and government respectively in Notre
Dame’s College of Arts and Letters.
RICE GIVES SIGMA XI TALKS
Dr. Francis O. Rice, principal research scientist in
chemistry and visiting research professor of chemistry at
Notre Dame, served as national lecturer for the Society
of Sigma Xi throughout the month of February.
He lectured on “Production and Reactions of Free
Radicals in Outer Space” at colleges and universities in
southern and southwestern states.
(Continued on page 18)
• EDITOR: JOHN H. JANOWSKI
2 NOTRE DAME
NOTRE DAME VOL. 18, No. 2, SUMMER, 1965
Published quarterly by the University of Notre
Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second
class matter May 10, 1928, at Post Office at Notre
Dame, Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.
MAY 15 CONVOCATION AND DINNER HIGHLIGHT
SCIENCE CENTENNIAL OBSERVANCE ON CAMPUS
Twelve eminent figures in the world of science, seven
of them Nobel Prize winners, received honorary doc-
torates at a special convocation on May 15 marking the
Centennial of Science at the University of Notre Dame.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University presi-
dent, officiated at the 3 p.m. ceremonies in the Stepan
Center. Among those honored by Notre Dame was Prof.
Michael Polanyi, the celebrated physical chemist, phi-
losopher and author from Oxford, England, who deliv-
ered the principal convocation speech.
Honorary Doctor of Laws degrees also were con-
ferred by Father Hesburgh on Dean A. Adrian Albert
of the Division of the Physical Sciences at the University
of Chicago j Prof. Melvin Calvin, director of the Law-
rence Radiation Laboratory’s Chemical Biodynamics Lab-
oratory, University of California at Berkeley; Mr. Craw-
ford H. Greenewalt, chairman of the board of E. I.
du Pont de Nemours and Company, Wilmington, Del.;
Prof. Karl Herzfeld, head of the department of physics,
Catholic University of America, Washington, D.C.; and
Dr. Donald F. Hornig. Special Assistant to President
Johnson for Science and Technology and chairman of
the President’s Science Advisory Committee.
Others accepting honorary doctorates at the Notre
Dame Centennial convocation included Dr. Arthur Korn-
berg, professor and executive head of the department of
biochemistry at the Stanford University School of Medi-
cine, Stanford, Calif.; Prof. Edward L. Tatum of the
Rockefeller Institute, New York, N.Y.; Dr. Charles H.
Townes, provost at the Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology, Cambridge; Dr. Harold C. Urey, professor of
chemistry-at-large, University of California; Dr. James
D. Watson, professor of biology at Harvard University,
Cambridge, Mass.; and Dr. Eugene P. Wigner, Prince-
ton University physicist currently engaged in research at
the Oak Ridge (Tenn.) National Laboratory.
Each of the honorary degree recipients except Polanyi,
who lives in England, is a member of the prestigious Na-
tional Academy of Sciences. The Nobel Laureates in the
group are Professors Calvin (1961), Kornberg (1959),
Tatum (1958), Townes (1964), Urey (1934), Watson
(1962) and Wigner (1963).
Also participating in the convocation were Rev. Ed-
mund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice president, who
assisted in the conferring of degrees, and Rev. Chester
A. Soleta, C.S.C., vice president for academic affairs,
who read the honorary degree citations. Music for the
academic procession was provided by the University of
Notre Dame Band.	.
I	Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. (center), president of the University of Notre	Dame, conferred honorary Doctor of Laws degrees on 12 eminent men
I	of science at a special Centennial of Science convocation on the campus May 15.	The degree recipients were (front row, left to right): Dean A. Adrian
!	Albert of the Division of the Physical Sciences at the University of Chicago; Prof.	Melvin Calvin, director of the Lawrence Radiation Laboratory's Chemical
l	Biodynamics Laboratory, Univ, of California, Berkeley; Prof. Michael Polanyi, Oxford, England, chemist and philosopher; Father Hesburgh; Dr. Donald
I	Hornig, Special Assistant to President Johnson for Science and Technology; Mr.	Crawford Greenewalt, chairman of the board of the DuPont Company,
Wilmington, Del.; Prof. Karl Herzfeld, head of the department of physics, Catholic University of America, Washington, D.C. (Second row, left to right):
Dr. Arthur Kornberg, professor and executive head of the department of biochemistry, Stanford Univ. School of Medicine, Stanford, Calif.; Prof. Edward
L. Tatum, the Rockefeller Institute, New York, N.Y.,- Dr. Charles H. Townes, provost at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass.; Dr.
Harold C. Urey, professor of chemistry-at-large, University of California; Dr. James D. Watson, professor of biology at Harvard University; and Dr.
Eugene P. Wigner, Princeton University physicist currently engaged in research at Oak Ridge, Tenn.
Rev. Howard J. Kenna, C.S.C., Provincial Superior, Indiana Province,
Priests of Holy Cross, and Dr. Donald Hornig, Special Assistant to President
Johnson for Science and Technology, delivered the invocation and principal
address, respectively, at the Science Centennial dinner on May 15.
DEAN ROSSINI RECEIVES 1965 LAETARE MEDAL
Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, dean of the College of
Science at the University of Notre Dame, received the
University’s highest honor, the Laetare Medal, which
has been conferred annually since 1883 on an outstand-
ing American Catholic layman during special ceremonies
at the Centennial of Science Convocation May 15. He is
the second scientist to receive the coveted award and
the first person to be so honored while serving on the
Notre Dame faculty.
Rossini became head of Notre Dame’s College of
Science in 1960 after earlier associations with the Car-
negie Institute of Technology and the National Bureau
of Standards. He is a member of the prestigious National
Academy of Sciences and recently completed a two-year
term as president of Sigma Xi, the national professional
society for the encouragement of scientific research. Cur-
rently he is president of the Albertus Magnus Guild,
a national organization of Catholic scientists.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame
THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON
The Centennial of Science convocation was one of a
series of events held at Notre Dame May 14-15 in con-
junction with the spring meetings of the University’s
Board of Lay Trustees and the Advisory Council for
Science and Engineering.
Three lectures on Notre Dame science — past, pres-
ent and future — were features of the Science Centen-
nial weekend. Dr. Lawrence Baldinger, associate dean
of the College of Science, spoke on the “History of
Science at Notre Dame” in the Memorial Library on
May 14 at 8 p.m. The University’s current educational
program and research in science was described by Dr.
Bernard Waldman, associate dean of the science school,
in the library auditorium on May 15 at 10 a.m. Dean
Rossini followed Waldman’s presentation with a talk on
“The Future of Science at Notre Dame.”
Other science centennial events included a Dean’s
Reception in the President’s Lounge, Notre Dame Memo-
rial Library, on May 14 at 10 p.m.; an open house in the
several buildings of the College of Science on May 15
from 10:30 a.m. to '2 p.m.; a President’s Luncheon for
honorary degree recipients and other invited guests on
May 15 at noon in the Morris Inn; and a Centennial
of Science Dinner in the North Dining Hall at 7 p.m.
Dr. Hornig was the dinner speaker and read a special
letter from President Johnson, the text of which follows.
Prof. Milton Burton, director of Notre Dame’s Radia-
tion Laboratory, was chairman of the Centennial of Sci-
ence Committee. The group has organized a year-long
series of lectures, exhibits and special events to mark the
first 100 years of scientific instruction and research at the
University. Notre Dame awarded its first Bachelor of
Science degree on June 22, 1865, to John Cassidy of
Chelsea, Michigan, who later became a South Bend
physician. Today the College of Science has an enroll-
ment of 600 sophomores, juniors and seniors, and 328
students are pursuing advanced degrees in the Gradu-
ate School.
4 NOTRE DAME
May 14, 1965
Dear Father Hesburgh:
1 am proud that your great University is observing the
one hundredth anniversary of the award of its first Bache-
lor of Science degree and the founding of its College of
Science.
Anniversaries invite reflection, and in talking with Dr.
Hornig about his visit on this occasion I have reflected
on the thoughts which must have formed in the minds of
your trustees and faculty, and students and friends, at that
convocation a century ago. With the waste of war and
the tragic assassination of a great President fresh before
them, they undertook this constructive and creative act.
Clearly, they sought to build for the future, confident of
God’s will that man should progress to better things. They
could not foresee where their actions would lead in a
hundred years, but they moved, as we must now, by
resolute faith.
Today America is preeminent in science and its applica-
tions, leading the world in Nobel laureates and others of
brilliant individual distinction such as those you are hon-
oring. In this scientific renaissance the University of
Notre Dame has played its part as a foremost Midwestern
center of science and learning.
Your convocation in 1965 can reflect on a barely imagin-
able rate of amassing of knowledge. I know that we can
join in prayer for the faith and courage of those who met
in Indiana a century ago, to assure that men will use this
knowledge wisely for man’s betterment.
Please convey to the participants in your centennial cele-
bration my very best wishes that Notre Dame may con-
tinue and prosper in these splendid traditions, now so
well established, which link together the best in educa-
tion and science.
Sincerely,
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
Father Hesburgh presents the 1965 Laetare Medal to Dean Frederick D.
Rossini of the College of Science as a special part of the Centennial of
Science convocation at the University of Notre Dame held May 15 in the
Stepan Center on campus.
president, in naming Rossini as the 1965 Laetare Medalist,
paid tribute to him as a scientist, educator and admin-
istrator.
“In Dean Rossini,” he said, “are combined the gifted
mind of a scientist, the teacher’s interest in young people,
and the executive ability required to coordinate educa-
tional programs and research in science at a complex
university.
“Both his public and private life exemplify the
high professional competence and deep moral responsi-
bility essential for Catholic leadership in the American
community.
“Notre Dame, as it celebrates during 1965 the Cen-
tennial of Science on its campus, is particularly pleased
and proud to honor Dean Rossini whose nearly forty
years of dedicated service to science, higher education and
government is in the finest tradition of the Laetare
Medal.”
The late President John F. Kennedy received the
Laetare Medal at a White House ceremony in 1961.
Psychiatrist Francis J. Braceland was the 1962 recipient,
and Admiral George W. Anderson, then Chief of Naval
Operations, was the 1963 Laetare Medalist. Poetess Phyllis
McGinley received the award last year. Through the
years 66 men and 17 women have received the Laetare
Medal which, in the words of the citation of 1896, “has
been worn only by men and women whose genius has
ennobled the arts and sciences, illustrated the ideals of
the Church and enriched the heritage of humanity.”
The Laetare Medal is so named because the recipient
is announced each year on Laetare Sunday, the Fourth
Sunday of Lent and an occasion of joy in the liturgy
of the Church. The actual presentation takes place at a
later time. The medal consists of a solid gold disc sus-
pended from a gold bar bearing the inscription, “Laetare
Medal.” Inscribed in Latin in a border around the
disc are the words, “Truth is mighty and will prevail.”
The center design of the medal and the inscription on
the reverse side are fashioned differently each year ac-
cording to the profession of the recipient.
Dean Rossini was born July 18, 1899, in Monon-
gahela, Pennsylvania. He was graduated from the Car-
negie Institute of Technology with a bachelor’s degree
in chemical engineering in 1925 and received a master
of science degree there the following year. He then
became a teaching fellow in chemistry at the University
of California, receiving his doctorate at Berkeley in 1928.
For 22 years, from 1928 to 1950, Dr. Rossini was a
scientist at the National Bureau of Standards, Washington,
D.G., advancing from Assistant Research Chemist to
Chief of the Section on Thermochemistry and Hydro-
carbons. From 1950 to 1960 he served as Silliman Pro-
fessor, head of the department of chemistry, and director
of the Chemical and Petroleum Research Laboratory at
Carnegie Tech. During this same period he was faculty
advisoi' to the Newman Club there. Today at Notre Dame,
Rossini is dean of the College of Science, associate dean
of the Graduate School (for science and engineering) and
chairman of the University Research Council.
The new Laetare Medalist is author or co-author of
eight books and more than 200 scientific papers, prin-
cipally in the fields of thermochemistry and thermody-
namics. He has lectured regularly at colleges and uni-
versities and before professional groups in this country
and abroad. He has received the Hillebrand Award of
the Chemical Society of Washington, the Pittsburgh
Award of the American Chemical Society, the Gold
Medal Exceptional Service Award of the U.S. Depart-
ment of Commerce and honorary degrees from Carnegie
Tech, Notre Dame, Duquesne University, Loyola Uni-
versity of Chicago, and Saint Francis College, Loretto,
Pa.
Dean Rossini was chairman of the National Research
Council’s Division of Chemistry and Chemical Technology
from 1955 to 1958. He has regularly attended the con-
ferences of the International Union of Pure and Applied
Chemistry and was appointed by the Department of
State as head of the American delegation to the con-
ference at Zurich in 1955. Currently Dean Rossini is
serving on the Policy Advisory Board for the Argonne
National Laboratory of the University of Chicago. He
has also served on several advisory panels and commit-
tees of the National Science Foundation.
THREE VICE PRESIDENTS NAMED
As this issue of NOTRE DAME goes to press,
the appointment of three vice presidents at the
University of Notre Dame was announced by Rev.
Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University presi-
dent.
Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., was named vice
president for academic affairs; James W. Frick
was appointed vice president for public relations
and development; and Dr. Francis T. McGuire
was designated as vice president for special projects.
Additional information on these changes will
appear in the Fall issue of NOTRE DAME.
5

, A
&
«
r
rHE TRUSTEES
Who they are and what they do
Iheie aie many impoitant and meaningful paiallels
between a business’s Boaid of Diiectois and a univeisitv’s
Boaid oi Tiustees. Not all univeisities emnlov the
teim “Boaid of Tiustees” foi theii goveminu oi advisoiv
It is at the Boaid level that the fundamental
alleCtins’ the life and the sphit. the diiection
decisions
and the*
progiess. the* plans and projections either lot the busine
01 foi the univeisitv air discussed.
boat ds. but
compaiison
the highest
most do. Perhaps the most basic point ol
is that the* Board tepiesents in both cases
possible level of policy and decision-making.
of
Unlike in business, howevei. among universities Board
Trustees aie eithei <>overnin£> oi advisory, dependin'
whether or not the Board has final leo-al
responsibility.
on
NOTRE DAME
6
CT
HAROLD S. FOLEY,
’21,
Vancouver,
British Columbia



PAUL F. HELLMUTH,
'40,
Boston, Massachusetts
JEROME J. CROWLEY,
31,
South Bend, Indiana
WALTER DUNCAN,
‘12,
LaSalle, Illinois


ROBERT W. GALVIN,
‘51,
Chicago, Illinois
TIMOTHY P GALVIN,
‘16,
Hammond, Indiana
J.

JOSEPH A
LaFORTUNE, '16,
Tulsa, Oklahoma
JAMES F. KEENAN,
‘13,
Fort Wayne, Indiana
JOHN P. MURPHY,
'12,
Cleveland, Ohio

JOSEPH I O'NEILL,
JR., ’37,
Midland, Texas
& r
At the University of Notre Danie the Board of Lav
Trustees is advisoix. The
control of. the Universitx
Holx Ci oss.
Though the Boaid ol
ultimate responsibility foi. and
tests with the Congiegation ol
Lax Tmstees ol the Univeisitx
ol Notie Dame is advison lathet than goxeming. the
Board's contiibntion to the Unix ei sits is of inestimable
value. Membeis ate invited to the Board because of thei’
records of accomplishment, theii yeais of experience, theii
interest in highei education and (specially in Notre Dame,
and their
xvilhngness to dexote theii time and talent to
the noble task of making Notre Dame an exei greatei
univeisitx.
The Univeisity of Notie Dame selects its Boaid mem-
bers irom a vaiietx of piofessional and careel back-
investment
I
i
r
■^sctsstm*
'4?
t
>>
w
*
Al FPFD C sTFPAn
J. PETER GRACE,


GEORGE N SH
'15,
Notre Dame, li


4^
qf R?
‘MA
Ar*
HOWARD V. PHALIN,
'28,
Chicago, Illinois
BERNARD J
'17,
VOLL,
WILLIAM R. DALEY,
Cleveland, Ohio


giounds and. to some extent, from geographical
In this xvay many dilTeient points ol viexx art*
sented in the BoaidN thinking. On theii pait. the
beis of the Boaid icgaid it as a mark of special
areas.
t epre-
mem-
honoi
and of highest confidence to be invited to seive in this
c apacity.
According to the by-laxxs ol the Boaid ol Lax Tiustees,
a thirty-member Boaid is dixided equallx betxxeen alumni
ol Notre Dame and non-ahimni.
For moie eiTective operation, the Boaid of Lay
Trustees is dixided into txxo committees; The Finance
Committee and the Development Committee. The Fi-
nance Committee adxises on all financial matteis and is
specifically chaiged
versitv's
with the task of handling the Uni-
poitfolio. cunenth x aim’d at ap-


New York City
EDMUND A.
STEPHAN, '33,
Chicago, Illinois

OLIVER C.
CARMICHAEL, JR.,
South Bend, Indiana
DONALD
M.

GRAHAM,
Chicago, Illinois

HARRY C. HAGERTY,
New York City


7
proximately MO million. The Development Committee
advises on all those matters i elating to the University's
continuing effort to become a better university and on how
to se< ure the funds necessaix for this important effort.
Mr. J. Petet Gt ace is Chaiiman ot the Board of Lax
Tnistees. Mi. Beinaid J. Voll is Chairman of the Finance
Committee. Mi. Paul F. Hellmuth is Chairman of the
I )evelopment (Committee.
Throughout the xeais the members of the Finance
( ommittee have looked after the University's investment
portfolio with great acumen and with a distinguished
record of success. Reverend Edmund P. Joyce. G.S.C..
Executive Vice President. University of Notre Dame,
meets regularly with the Finance Committee.
In moie recent years, the Development Committee.
functioning largely through its Executive or Steering
Committee, has concerned itself actively with analyzing
the many problems and opportunities facing a majoi
private university in this countrv and with suggesting
wavs *m which Notre Dame might bettei fulfill its role
and its promise. The agenda for a typical meeting of the
Steering Committee of the Development Committee might
tange all the way from the Institute lot Highei Religious
Studies to the relationships between Notie Dame and
St. Mary's. Father Hesburgh, President of the Univeisity,
meets with the members of the Steering Committee of the
I )evelopment Committee
The Board ol Lav Trustees is an essential and a vital
part of Notre Dame's administration. Its members are
as highly esteemed as they are deeply appreciated.
South
Bend. Indiana
NOTRE
DAME
St Paul. Minnesota
FRANKLIN D.
SCHURZ,
GFORGE W
Houston,
STRAKE,
Texas
I A O SHAUGHNESSY,
E. J. HANLEY
Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania
c '4
JOSEPH A. MARTINO,
New York City
FRANK E.
MACKLE, JR.,
Miami Beach, Florida

NEWTON N.
MINOW,
Chicago, Illinois
THOMAS W.
PANGBORN,
Hagerstown, Maryland
john l. McCaffrey,
Chicago, Illinois
C ROY McCANNA,
Burlington, Wisconsin

Throughout this Centennial of Science year at Notre
Dame, distinguished figures in all areas of the scientific
world are coming to the campus to present papers, par-
ticipate in symposia, and make public lectures about their
specialties.
The following photo-feature should give some idea
ol the scope and diversity of Notre Dame’s Centennial of
Science lecture program Since additional speakers are
scheduled for next fall, this assemblage is not complete,
but it is typical of the quality of the program and should
provide an “overall” view to Notre Dame alumni and
friends throughout the country.
Editor
Dr. Eugene Rabmowi'tch (second from left], professor of botany and biophysics a!
the University of Illinois, presented a Science Centennial Lecture in January. Left
to right are Dr. Robert E.	Gordon,	acting	head of the biology department.	Rabin-
owitch; Dr. Milton Burton,	director	of the	Radiation Laboratory; and Dr.	Harvey
A. Bender, associate professor of biology.
Professor Charles C. Price,	chairman of the chemistry department at the University
of Pennsylvania (right), is	shown Father	Nieuwland s original laboratory	in the
Chemistry Building on the Notre Dame campus. Father Nieuwland won fame for
his work with synthetic rubber. Professor Price delivered a Centennial of Science
Lecture in February. Left to right are Dr. Ernest L. Eheh professor and head of the
chemistry department; Dr. George F. Hennion, Julius A. Nieuwland Professor of
Chemistry, and Dr. Price.
Dr. S. Amelinckx (right), professor at the University of Ghent and director of D
solid state m Studiecentrpm voor Kernenergie, S.C.K., Moi-Donk, Belgium, pre-
sented a Centennial of Science Lecture in February. Discussing an electron accelera-
tor in the Radiation Laboratory with Dr. ' Amelinckx are (left fo righ*) Dr. George p
C. Kuczynski, professor of metallurgical engineering, and Dr. Robert W. Henfz, pl
senior research scientist at the Radiation Laboratory.	;
Dr. William F. Kellow (middle), dean of the Hahnemann Medical College of
Philadelphia, presented a Centennial af Science Lecture in February. Left to right p
are Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger associate dean of the College of Science and head	p
of the deportment of preprofessional studies Dr. Frederick D. Rossini. Dean of the	; ■
College of Science Kellow; Phil Haley, president of Alpha Epsilon Delta, student f_»
honorary society, and John Ujda, president of Aesculapions. premedical society, 1 >


Centennial of
1865
of right
is
(right), professor of chemistry at the University of Wis-
Dr. Richard B Bernstein
Cassidy [center], professor of chemistry
Yale
University, de-
af
(center], of the chemistry department at the University
a Centennial of Science Lecture in February. Demon-
and visiting research scientist at Notre Dame. Watching
Burton, director of the Radiation Laboratory.
Professor Sanford Lipsky
of Minnesota, delivered
strafing an apparatus far measuring decay rates as short as one-billionth of a second
for Dr. Lipsky is Dr. Juan T. D'Alessio (seated], of the Argentine Atomic Energy
Commission
Dr. Milton
fess
Dr. Harold G.
livered the first
of a series of Centennial Lectures in January. Left to right are
cousin, Madison, is shown one of the machines
Dr. Milton Burton, director of the Radiation Laboratory and chairman of the cen-
tennial committee; Dr. Charles J. Mullin, head of the physics department and
chairman of the centennial lectures; Dr. Cassidy; Dr. Ernest L. Eliel, head of
the chemistry department; and Dean Frederick
Science.
D. Rossini, Dean of the College of
cision instruments for the science department
of the machine shop. With them is one of
was the Peter C Reilly Lecturer March 1-5
observance
by
the
as
used at Notre Dame to make pre-
Brother Cosmos, C S.C. (left), head
University machinists. Dr. Bernstein
part of the Centennial of Science

Dr. Harry A. Waisman, (second from right], professor of pediatrics at the Uni-
versity of Wisconsin Medical Center, delivered a Centennial of Science Lecture on
“Experimental Phenylketonuria." Checking reference works in the biology library
are (left to right) Dr. Harvey Bender, associate professor of biology; Dr. Robert
Gordon, acting head of the biology department; Dr. Waisman; and Dr. Law-
rence H. Baldinger, associate dean of the College of Science and head of the
department of preprofessional studies.
Dr. Allen H. Voisey, (right) professor and head of the L. A. Cotton School of
Geology, University of New England, Armsdale, New South Wales, Australia, pre-
sented three Centennial of Science Lectures on the campus Feb. 18-19. Dr. Ray-
mond C. Gutschick, head of the geology deportment, shows a specimen from the
geology department's collection to Dr. Voisey.
S'
1965
director at
Rossini, Deon of
the
studies; and Dr. Frederick D
College of
of the chemistry
Covenant
department
director of
who taught
Swedish
for the
Burton,
CSC,
(right), as-
Lecfwe on
Hospital, Chicago, delivered a Centennial of Science Lecture
of preprofessional studies in April. Left to right are Dr. Milton
the Radiation Laboratory; McCormick, Rev. Charles L. Doremus,
McCormick as an undergraduate at Notre Dame; Dr. Lawrence
* *
•• '■*&
.. J
& VS

lence
’h
Melville Mudge (left), research geologist, U.S. Geological Survey, Denver, Colorado,
points out one of the areas of his field research to Dr. Raymond C. Gutschick
(center), head of the geology department, and Dr. William M. Fairley
sislanf professor of geology. Mudge presented a Centennial of Science
the campus in March.
Dr. James B McCormick (second from left), pathologist and laboratory
H. Baldinger, associate dean of the College of Science and head of the department
of preprofessional
Science.
Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, Dean of the College of Science, (second from right),
presented a Centennial of Science Lecture on February 4. Notre Dame faculty
members with Deon Rossini are (left to right) Dr. George F. Hennion, Julius
A. Nieuwland Professor of Chemistry; Dr. Thomas P. Fehlner, assistant professor
of chemistry; Rossini; and Dr. William H. Hamill, professor of chemistry.
Dr. Oswaldo Froia Pessoa, head of the human genetics department at the University
of Sao Paulo, Brazil (second from left), discusses the Notre Dame Mosquito Genetics
Project with members of the Notre Dame biology department prior to delivering a
Centennial Lecture in March. Dr. Froia spoke on "Mechanisms of Dosage Compen-
sation for Sex Linked Genes." Left to right are Dr. Robert E. Gordon, acting
head of the biology department; Dr. Froia Pessoa: Dr. Marissa Boi-Miriam, visiting
research scientist at Notre Dame: Dr. Harvey A. Bender, associate professor of biol-
ogy, and Dr. George B Craig, Jr., professor of biology.
Dr. Henry A. Lardy, (left), chairman of the Enzyme Institute 11 and professor of
biochemistry at the University of Wisconsin delivered three Peter C. Reilly Lectures
in January as part of the Centennial of Science observance. Checking a vertical
rotating table with Dr. Lardy are (left io right) Dr. Roger K. Bretihauer, assistant
professor of chemistry; Dr. Ernest L. Eliel, professor and head
department; and Dr. Charles E. Brombel, professor of chemistry.

Dr. Heinrich Krone, Minister foi' Special Affairs and
chairman of the National Defense Council for the West
German Federal Republic, and Marc Chagall, the famous
French artist, were honored by the University of Notre
Dame at special convocations in March and April where
both received honorary degrees from the University.
On March 23, Dr. Krone spoke on “The Germans
and Nucleai' Weapons” and specified three reasons why
his country “rejects nuclear weapons of our own.”
“First,” he declared, “we firmly believe in collective
defense because we are sure that collective defense is the
only answer to the threat of our time.
I	of the West German Federal Republic, received an honorary Doctor of
Laws degree and delivered an address on “The Germans and Nuclear
Weapons" at a special University of Notre Dame convocation March
23rd. Shown with him here are (left to right) Karl Heinrich Knappstein,
German ambassador to the United States,- Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh,
C.S.C., Notre Dame president, who conferred the degree,- and Dr. George
N. Shuster, assistant to Father Hesburgh and State Commissioner for
Bavaria in the U.S. Zone of Germany during 1950-51.
“Second,” Krone said, “we are fully aware that
nuclear weapons in German hands would revive fear and
resentment all over the world because of our past, even
though the situation in Germany today has essentially
changed.
“Third, the Federal Republic is not strong enough to
afford nuclear weapons of its own,” the German states-
man declared.
In receiving an honorary Doctor of Laws from Rev.
Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.G., University president, Dr.
Krone was cited as “the archetype of the political man
most needed in our world: the Christian Democrat who
has been loyally and humbly a Christian, and effectively
and constructively a Democrat.” An intimate associate of
former German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer, Krone is
regarded as one of the founders of Germany’s Christian
Democratic Union.
Pointing out that all West German armed forces are
under NATO command, Dr. Krone said his country
“has placed its fate into the hands of NATO and par-
ticularly into the hands of the United States.” He ex-
pressed “the deepest regret and most serious concern”
that France and the United States hold different views on
the strategy of NATO “which is the cornerstone of our
security.”
Krone denied that West Germany must make a choice
between France and the U.S. “There is no such choice,”
he said, “because we are depending on both countries.
Europe cannot be defended without the United States,
nor can Germany be defended without France.” He said
that both France and the United States “have good
reasons for their respective positions, and it is certainly
not up to us to pass a judgment.”
The German government official said the American
forces in Germany “are guaranteeing the consistent and
real policy of security and peace which benefits above all
the Germans, but also the whole of Europe.” Fie did not
eliminate the possibility of an eventual detente, but termed
it “doubtful and dangerous” to think that “a relaxation
of tension was already under way.” West Germany, he
said, is “not worried about a reasonable settlement be-
tween the Soviet Union and the West, provided it is
based on a reasonable, balanced give-and-take.”
12 NOTRE DAME
■CT


Krone warned, however, that “as long as the Soviets
are not ready to open the door for a genuine European
peace settlement, we in Germany feel that any form of
disengagement, thinning our and regional disarmament
would only consolidate the present rigid and unacceptable
status of a divided Europe.”
PAINTER MARC CHAGALL FETED
“In humble admiration and gratitude for the gift of
beauty from his hands to the mind and heart of mankind,”
Father Hesburgh conferred an honorary Doctor of Fine
Arts degree on 77-year-old Russian-born artist, Marc
Chagall, at a special convocation in the Notre Dame
Memorial Library auditorium on April 5.
Chagall, who has lived in France for many years, ad-
dressed the convocation briefly with his famous painting,
“The Grand Circus,” forming a brilliantly colored back-
drop on the auditorium stage.
“Art must go rather toward the soul than through
theories toward the brain,” Chagall told the University
audience. He said that “art and life itself seem to me to be
like a boat upon the waters. To whom is it given this gift
of guiding this boat and how to sail it?”
Referring to his own work, which includes the ceiling
of the Paris Opera and an intricate stained-glass window
at the United Nations Secretariat Building in New York,
Chagall said: “I see, in the life of everyday people and
things as through a tear. I try to offei' to them, as I can,
a plastic reflection.”
In an earlier news conference, Chagall said he is
working on the decor for a new Metropolitan Opera pro-
duction of Mozart’s “Magic Flute” scheduled for 1967.
He said American art “has a new vitality which was lack-
ing previously.”
“Life itself is oui' great school of art, and we must
learn right up to the end of life,” the celebrated artist
said. Art has a continuity, but changes come more fre-
quently than in earlier years “because these are times of
volcanic eruption in which we live.” The role of the artist
is tragic today, Chagall said, because while the world’s
horizons have been extended, “the human heart is as
small as ever.”
Annual President's Dinner
Honors Cardinal, Faculty
The University of Notre Dame honored a South
American cardinal, announced faculty promotions and
paid tribute to faculty members who are retiring or ob-
serving their 25 th anniversary on the campus at the
annual President’s Dinner in the North Dining Hall
on May 18.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, G.S.G., University
president, conferred an honorary Doctor of Laws degree
on His Eminence Agnelo Cardinal Rossi, Archbishop of
Sao Paulo, Brazil, and president of the Conference of
Bishops of Brazil.
The 52-year-old South American prelate was cited
as “one of the effective national leaders of his country
. . . (who) recognizes that social and religious reform
must go together, for the sense of human dignity achieved
must underlie the supernatural aspirations of man.”
Honored guests at the President’s Dinner were three
Artist Marc Chagall (right) stands beside his famed painting, “The
Grand Circus,” after receiving an honorary Doctor of Fine Arts degree
from the University of Notre Dame April 5th. Shown with him here are
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. (left), who conferred the doctorate
at a special convocation, and Gustav Stern (center), head of the Gustav
Stern Foundation, Inc., which has loaned the Chagall painting to the
Notre Dame gallery. The celebrated painter met informally with faculty
members and students in the University’s art department during a four-
day visit to the campus.
retiring faculty members and three who are observing
their 25th year of teaching at Notre Dame. Leaving the
faculty at the end of the present term are Clarence J.
Kline, professor of mathematics; Willis D. Nutting, asso-
ciate professor in the General Program of Liberal Studies;
and Carl C. Stevason, associate professor of mechanical
engineering. The silver jubilee group includes Rev. Mark
Fitzgerald, C.S.C., professoi' of economics; Guy Mc-
Michael, part-time associate professor of business organi-
zation and management; and Bernard Waldman, profes-
sor of physics and associate dean of the College of Science-
Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., vice president for aca-
demic affairs, announced the promotion of nine faculty
members to the rank of full professor.
They are John J. Broderick and Edward J. Murphy,
law; Sperry E. Darden, physics; Edward A. Fischer, com-
munication arts; John R. Malone, marketing manage-
ment; Thomas T. Murphy, business administration;
Richard R. Otter and Thomas E. Stewart, mathematics;
and Bernard S. J. Wostmann, biology.
Elevated to the rank of associate professors are Leo
B. Auth, Jr., Harry G. Lafuse and James L. Massey, elec-
trical engineering; Robert E. Burns, history; Rev. John
S. Dunne, C.S.C., theology; Frank J. Fahey, sociology;
William M. Fairley and Rev. Michael J. Murphy, C.S.C.,
geology; Petei' P. Grande, guidance and testing; and
James M. Lee, education.
Others designated as associate professor include Lewis
E. Nicholson, English; Daniel J. Pasto, chemistry; Carl
R. Riehm, mathematics; C. Joseph Sequin, business or-
ganization and management; William D. Shephard, phys-
ics; Frederic W. Syburg, communication arts; Albin A.
(Continued on page 18)
13
PART II
(Continued from Spring Issue)
There was not a marked change in the magazine
under the new editor. A note dated June 19, 1875, ap-
peared in the June 26 issue announcing that the editor
would no longer accept “paid contributions” unless so-
licited. And in the first issue of 1876 the editor announced
that because of the stringencies of the times — following
the panic of 1873 — the price of the magazine would
be reduced to $2.50 instead of the $3.00 hitherto charged,
and that if further economies could be introduced, par-
ticularly by an increase in the number of subscribers, the
charge would be further reduced. The second notice of
this change in price said the magazine was not a “busi-
ness enterprise” but published by religious for religious
purposes.
In 1874 there were several columns in each issue of
“Notes and Remarks,” mostly of quotations from other
publications. In 1875 these became “Catholic Notes” and
began to have a more editorial tone. Eventually the “Notes
and Remarks” carried the editorial policy of the magazine,
although not all were written by Father Hudson. Al-
though his name eventually appeared as the editor of the
magazine his name was not attached to' anything pub-
lished in it. This was a sublime act of humility that pre-
cludes a normal history of his ideas. In 1878 on the
death of Pope Pius IX the pages carried a black border of
mourning. In 1879 four additional pages were added to
make them twenty in all. The poor quality of the book-
notes was symptomatic of the lack of solid Catholic pub-
lications in English at that time.
Father Hudson continued a kind of English Catholic
tone to the Ave Maria. The imagery of the poetry in the
Ave Maria and the tone of the comments and new items
expressed an at-homeness in English, proper to the English
of traditionally English Catholic families or of American
families with an English or American convert tone. The
emphasis was on a high type of devotion to Our Lady,
strong but delicate. There was a family kind of conserva-
tism in the fiction and historical accounts. The Catholic
World, founded the month before the Ave Maria in 1865,
was more of a literary magazine and the Catholic Quar-
terly Review, begun in 1876, was more scientific in tone,
but neither contained a finer use of English or of more
perfect grammar. The tone of the Ave Maria news items
was one of continued progress.
In the 1880’s the circle of Father Hudson’s influence
began to widen. He corresponded with other editors and
occasionally sent sharp notes to those lacking in respect for
his magazine. Most of the Catholic editors paid close at-
tention to the observations of the Ave Maria—now
twenty-four pages—since the editor showed a definite
independence, even from Notre Dame and the local au-
thorities. He declined to publish the collection reports of
Bishop Dwenger of Fort Wayne despite the threat of a
decline in local support by the bishop. The book reviews,
while not as powerful or as crushing as those by the old
master, Orestes A. Brownson, were carefully written and
brought the readers of the magazine in touch with the
most important of the Catholic publications, as well as the
chief devotional books. Some important books not avail-
able for review were quoted extensively on suitable topics.
In the later 1880’s there was a continuance of the
more important writers from the first years of Hudson’s

i	The Ave Maria's editor, Rev. John Reedy, C.S.C. (seated), looks over a
|	forthcoming issue with a fellow Holy Cross editor, Rev. Thomas F. McNally,
I	C S.C., of the Catholic Boy/Miss.
।	editorship. To these were added the regular contribu-
I	tions of Maurice Francis Egan, stories by Francis Marion
•	Crawford and brief essays by John Gilmary Shea and
Andrew A. Lambing, the historians. Bishop John Lan-'
'	caster Spalding of Peoria contributed verses and essays,
both ponderous. There were verses by Aubrey De Vere^
essays and verses by Father Arthur Barry O’Neill, C.S.C./
essays and verses by Eleanore C. Donnelly, Anna T. Sad-
lier, L. W. Reilly, Austin O’Malley, and essays by Brother
Azarius (Patrick Mullany). One of the most fruitful
friendships opened between Hudson and Charles Warren
Stoddard, who wrote of the South Seas, of the shrines of
the West Coast, and of his conversion. Most important, by
accident, was his “Martyrs of Molokai” which was pub-
lished separately as The Lepers of Molokai and found
fruitful soil in Brother Ira Dutton who went under the
direction of Hudson and Stoddard to assist Father Damien
De Veuster in the leper colony. Through this intercession
there arose a long and interesting correspondence between
Brother Dutton and Hudson, enriched in the first years by
letters of Father Damien himself. Father Hudson main-
tained a regular correspondence with missionaries in
China, southwest Asia, India, and Pacific islands and
collected money and aid for them through the Ave Maria.
Although Father Hudson was read with care by Cath-
olic bishops and editors, his magazine was not listed
among the sources of The Literary Digest during the	j
Spanish-American War era.
In the first decades of the twentieth century there was
a continuance of most of the regular contributors, such	1
as Marion Muir Richardson, Anna T. Sadlier, Charles W.	j
Stoddard, Maurice Francis Egan, Barbara de Courson,	j
Andrew Hilliard Atteridge, and Mary T. Waggaman.	I
There was an abundance in prose and verse from Sister
Rita Heffernan, C.S.C., a delicate flowering of St. Mary’s	j
and in that sense a successor of Mother Angela. There	j
were names that had achieved greatness in other publica-	|
tions, such as Louise Imogen Guiney, Cardinal Aidan Gas-	j
quet, Gabriel Francis Powers, and William Thomas Walsh.	1
The editorial comment showed a bit of prejudice against
the ebullient leader of American Republicanism, Theodore
Roosevelt, and when there was some discrimination in the
schools chosen for the Filipino youths brought to the
United States for training, the editor was able to obtain
the ear of William Howard Taft and offer the pages of
the Maria to Taft, who became the favorite of the
editor in the elections of 1908 and 1912, although this
favoritism was not fully unveiled.
Father Hudson had a wide range of friends in the	J
hierarchy. A free copy of the Ave Maria was delivered to	j
the desk of each prelate. Some were close personal friends,
such as Bishop Camillus Paul Maes of Covington, Bishop
John Lancaster Spalding of Peoria, Bishop Bernard	;
McQuaid of Rochester, and Archbishop William Riordan,
the former Notre Dame student in San Francisco. While
in the Americanist controversy Father Hudson seemed to
be on the side of the Americanizing prelates, he had the
respect of the editor of The Review, Edward Preuss, and
of conservative editors. He seemed to be in closer align-
ment with Archbishop John Ireland and his close friend,
Archbishop John Keane. While he was very sympathetic
to the aims of Bishop Bernard McQuaid in many matters,
he did not join in McQuaid’s opposition to the founding
of the Catholic University .
There is a kind of evenness to the prose and the verse
of the A ve Maria throughout the early years of Father
Hudson. Father Charles Carey, G.S.G., on the occasion
of the diamond jubilee of the magazine noted particu-
larly some verses by Aubrey De Vere, Adelaide Ann
Procter, Marion Muir (Lady Richardson), Katharine
The Ave Maria Press building,
located in the northern part
of the campus, recently
expanded its facilities to
handle an ever-increasing
volume of printing work in
addition to the Ave Maria
magazine.
«
A
the first 1OO years
£

Tynan Hinkson, Katherine E. Conway, Eleanore Don-
nelly, and Sister Rita Heffernan, C.S.C. After 1900 he
noted that the correctly measured verses of the Victorian
era were followed by richer freer imagery. The names
he listed for this period are revered by those who like
deeply religious and brightly garmented verses: Louise
Imogen Guiney, Enid Dennis, Joyce Kilmer, Father Ed-
ward Garesche, S.J., Thomas Walsh, Sister Madeleva,
C.S.C., Father Thomas E. Burke, C.S.C., and Father
Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C. It is not fair to prefer one
of these poems to the others but Father O’Donnell’s
“Cloister” expresses this type of poetic exaltation best.
Well, that were a cloister; for its bars
Long strips of sunset and its roof of stars.
Four walls of sky, with corridors of air,
Leading to chapel, and God everywhere.
Earth beauteous and bare to lie upon,
Lit by the little candle of the sun.
The winds gone daily sweeping like a bioom,
For these vast hearts it is a narrow room.
Some who read the Ave Maria regularly during
Father Hudson’s editorship felt that there was no better-
edited magazine in the English language. The fiction,
full-length novels and short stories were quite romanticist.
The historical accounts from such pens as those of John
Gilmary Shea and Charles Warren Stoddard were at-
tractive bits. The unsigned editorials were usually
prompted by some current problem affecting Catholic life.
The more pointed editorials in the “Notes and Remarks”
were often a bit caustic, sometimes humorous, and always
prompted by independent thought.
The peak of the editorship of Father Hudson was
probably the decade before World War I when the sub-
scriptions rose to over twenty-five thousand. Most of the
surviving writers of the previous decade continued to
write regularly in the pages of the Maria. There
were very many verses and essays by Father Arthur Barry
O’Neill, C.S.C., and Sister Rita Heffernan, C.S.C. Charles
Warren Stoddard and Maurice Francis Egan were con-
tinuing writers. New names among the Holy Cross Fathers
were Fathers Charles L. O’Donnell and Thomas E. Burke
both of whom wrote fine verse and Father Patrick J.
In the Ave Maria's pressroom,
a proof is examined by Edwin
R. Jankowski, foreman; Edward
C. Sanna, printing plant mana-
ger, Brother Martinus, C.S C.,
pressman; and Ferdinand
Na/epinski, assistant pressman.
Carroll whose stories based upon his Irish boyhood were
read avidly by other Irish exiles. Hudson’s influence over
American Catholic journalists was witnessed by letters
from P. V. Hickey, Manly Tello, Humphrey Desmond,
and Father John Talbot Smith. Other names of higher
literary merit appearing in the magazine at this time were
Joyce Kilmer, Louise Imogen Guiney, Katharine Tynan
Hinkson, Wilbur Robinson, Frances Tiernan (Christian
Reid), and John Ayscough (Monsignor Bickerstaffe-
Drew). Father Hudson’s influence among the leading
Catholic clergymen was shown when bishops sought his
advice. Thus Archbishop Riordan of San Francisco asked
Hudson’s advice in picking his coadjutor. Hudson did
tell other bishops what he thought of their policies. Father
John W. Cavanaugh, who was Hudson’s assistant at this
time, told of Hudson’s reading him portions of informing
letters from members of the hierarchy and then tearing
up the letters despite the protests of his younger assistant.
Practically every Catholic writer in English of any im-
portance wrote to him or sought admission to the pages
of the Ave Maria. The “With Authors and Publishers”
pages in smaller type had sharp evaluations of current
books.
The decline in power of the editorials of the Ave
Maria came partly by the increase in Catholic periodi-
cals. There began to be other devotional magazines and
mission publications. There was really less challenge in
producing a magazine devoted to Our Lady. The ap-
pearance of America in 1909 and the growing number
of Catholic weekly newspapers made the role of the Ave
Maria less spectacular. The high literary quality of the
Ave Maria and its family tone kept it from competing
with more popular journals. The circulation of the
magazine did continue to grow, reaching over twenty-six
thousand in 1914 and thirty-five thousand before the
resignation of Father Hudson in 1928. The quality of
the editorials changed. Instead of the gentle but sharp
criticisms there were more generalizations and a bit of
harsh reaction to public opposition to Catholic ideals.
Father Hudson had always acted like a kind of editorial
watchdog when the important newspapers or magazines
made unfair assertions about Catholics. After 1900 there
began to be a bit more politics in his comments. His
opposition to Woodrow Wilson was a bit more outspoken
and his objection to the League of Nations was a little
less American than his discussion of public affairs had
been before the turn of the century. Here is an example
from September 8, 1917:
That President Wilson’s response to the Holy Father’s
peace proposals would be anything else than a more or less
deliberate declination of them was too much to expect.
He could handle a critical pen with deftness and humor.
He had begun to fail before ill health forced him to leave
his room for a hospital bed in 1928. He had able assistants
in Fathers Eugene Burke. Kerndt Healey, Thomas E.
Burke, James McElhone, and Thomas Lahey, but so long
as Father Hudson was editor there was no great change.
Father Eugene Burke, Hudson’s successor, had the
handicap of a tradition that had been molded over a
long period of time and had come to be expected in the
pages of the Ave Maria. The writers continued to be of
the same type. One critic who pointed to an editorial
as one that Father Hudson would not have written was
informed that it had been written by Father Hudson
from his retirement. The literary level was high, but the
Catholic writers who were writing on that level were
fewer. The intellectual decline of American Catholic
writing after 1910 affected the Ave Maria as well as
other Catholic media. There was bound to be a period
of decline during which some noticed the disappearance
of Father Hudson and refused to see a new challenge
in Father Burke. The Ave Maria was just beginning to
come out from that cloud of misunderstanding and show
the vigor and humor of Father Eugene Burke when the
Holy Cross superiors decided that he should use his
talents elsewhere.
The writer chosen to succeed him was very familiar
to readers of the Ave Mana as a creator of stories about
the rural Ireland of his youth. Father Patrick Carroll
had been assisting Father Burke while teaching in the
University of Notre Dame. He was a man of strong
views which were very Catholic and quite conservative.
He was also a strong partisan for Irish freedom and for
the full freedom of all things strictly Catholic. There
was a touch of the poetic in his approach to life, some-
thing of the wonder of his Irish youth that he had not
lost, a youth of the days that produced the leaders of the
Irish revolution of 1916. But he also belonged to those
Catholics of European origins who felt that America
was too much secularized and that some things which
were modern were not therefore better. To him and to
those of his experience the conservative side of the argu-
ment was usually the religious side and must be defended.
The great enemy of this conservatism was the Bol-
shevik Revolution, and anyone who was willing to com-
promise with Communism thereby departed from ortho-
doxy. There were prominent writers in this country who
embraced Marxism in the depression era and turned
back only in the face of the Soviet-Hitler agreement of
1939. Most of them had an open disregard for Catholic
ideals. Foi' them Father' Carroll had only scorn. The
political discussions of these topics often further obscured
rather than clarified the issues in which economic ills
were confused with ideological concepts. The safer side
for many Catholic writers seemed to be to stick to known
Catholic principles. Some of the editorials critical of the
new departures in American government were not writ-
ten by the editor. When declining health and failing eye-
sight forced Father Carroll to give up his editorial chair
his place was taken by Father Felix Duffey, a religious
writer, for a period of transition from 1952 to 1954.
On the new policies under Father John Reedy, C.S.C.,
since 1954, away from the conservatism of Father Carroll
to participation in the “revived Catholicism” of Pope
John XXIII and the Ecumenical Council, the current
issues offer the best source of information. The new for-
mat, the expert use of paper and photography, and the
opening of the Ave Maria pages to frank discussion, have
given the Ave Maria a new appeal. To those who feel
that Father Reedy has changed the Ave Maria he could
properly speak of the criticism of Father Sorin’s new
venture a hundred years ago, and of the daring of Father
Daniel Hudson, who did not refuse to disagree with
Father Sorin or the local bishop when the proper edi-
torial freedom was at stake. The Ave Maria has always
been a Catholic publication. Unfortunately the Catholic
support of Catholic magazines in the United States has
never been what it could be.
Orestes A. Brownson, the great Catholic literary critic
of a hundred years ago, claimed that there should have
been thousands of subscribers when there were only hun-
dreds. The Catholic reading public has not changed
much since then. The major handicap of Catholic editors
has been the paucity of Catholic readers and this the
Ave Maria has shared with most Catholic periodicals.
As the Catholic reading public grows, the second hun-
dred years of rhe Ave Maria should give the editors the
kind of support necessary to make the magazine one that
others must hear and read to know its Catholic position.
Literary quality the Ave Maria always had; and inde-
pendence of thought. The public support has always
been good but never quite up to the quality of its literary
and religious perfection.
Mr. Sanna discusses a
forthcoming issue of the
Ave Maria with D. J.
Singleton, production;
Paul G. Martin, com-
posing room section
head; and Eugene
Guenferf, composing
room foreman.

"The Folly of Icarus and Prometheus” is the title of this striking mural
in the foyer of the President’s Lounge atop the new, 13-story Notre Dame
Memorial Library. Icarus (upper left), the foolhardy aerialist whose wings
were melted by the sun, symbolizes the scientist or technician of unbridled
ambition who would defy supreme authority. Prometheus (lower center),
who stole fire from the sun, here represents the undisciplined humanist
•	who would defy God to serve man. The fresco is the work of Robert
Leader, associate professor of art at Notre Dame, who has designed
stained glass and other murals for many churches throughout the country.

PRESIDENT'S DINNER
(Continued from page 13)
Szewczyk, mechanical engineering; and Joseph A. Tihen
and Brother Raphael Wilson, C.S.C., biology.
Instructors who have been advanced to the rank of
assistant professor are Michael J. Crowe, general pro-
gram; Thomas M. Lorch, Rev. John J. McManmon,
C.S.C., and Vincent P. Tartella, English; Noel B. O’Sul-
livan, physical education; Robert S. Turley, philosophy;
and Donald J. Wehmeyer, education.
NOTRE DAME NEWS
(Continued from page 2)
ELIEL WINS AWARD
Dr. Ernest L. Eliel, professor of chemistry and head
of the chemistry department at the University of Notre
Dame received a medal and a citation, accompanied by
a check for $1,000 from the Manufacturing Chemists’
Association, Inc., as one of three outstanding college
chemistry teachers in the United States and Canada
in June.
ARCHITECTURE BUILDING DEDICATED
Dedication ceremonies were held here on May 1 for
the new facilities of the University of Notre Dame archi-
tecture department, a $250,000 project which transformed
the interior of the old campus library with contemporary
design and materials.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame
president, blessed the strikingly remodeled building, and
Dean Pietro Belluschi of the School of Architecture and
Planning at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
delivered the dedicatory address.
LOBUND GETS CANCER GRANTS
Eleven cancer societies have awarded $66,502 to the
Lobund Laboratory at the University of Notre Dame to
help support its cancer research program, it was an-
nounced by Dr. Morris Pollard, director of the germfree
animal research center.
FERRARI HEADS AIR FORCE ROTC UNIT
Col. Victor J. Ferrari, USAF, has been appointed
professor of aerospace studies and commanding officer of
the Air Force ROTC unit at the University of Notre
Dame. He was Deputy Commander of Training at
Mather Air Force Base, Calif., and assumed his duties
at the University on June 21.
Col. Ferrari replaced Lt. Col. Everett E. Blakely, who
has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty and com-
manding officer of the Air Force ROTC since July, 1960.
Col. Blakely has been assigned as chief of maintenance
for the 26th Tactical Reconnaissance Wing, Toul Rosieres
Air Base, France.
COSTELLOS NAMED DANFORTH ASSOCIATES
Dr. and Mrs. Donald P. Costello have been appointed
the first Danforth Associates at the University of Notre
Dame, according to an announcement by Robert Rankin,
associate director of the Danforth Foundation, St. Louis,
Mo. Costello is an assistant professor of English at the
University.
POLLARO JOINS ART FACULTY
Paul Pollaro, New York City painter-collagist, will
join the art department faculty at the University of Notre
Dame for the Summer Session, June 21-Aug. 6, it was
announced by Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., head of the
Notre Dame art department. He will teach courses in
Intermediate Painting and Advanced Painting, and will
offer special workshop experiments in the art of collage.
MYERS NAMED TO COMMITTEES
Dr. Basil R. Myers, professor and head of the elec-
trical engineering department at the University of Notre
Dame, has been appointed to the committees of two
engineering groups.
He will serve as a member of the Liaison Relationship
Committee of the American Society for Engineering Edu-
cation, and as a member of the Education Committee of
the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers, the
world’s largest professional society for engineers.
SILVER WINS PRIZE
Dr. James W. Silver, visiting professor of history at
Notre Dame, has received the $500 Sidney Hillman
Foundation Special Prize Award for his book, Mississippi:
The Closed Society.
The award is given to “provide appropriate recogni-
CHANGING ADDRESS? USE ZIP CODE
All alumni and friends of the University of
Notre Dame who notify the University of an address
change are urged to include their Zip Code number.
This will facilitate our processing of the change
and help bring our mailing lists up to date accord-
ing to Post Office requirements. Thank you.
18 NOTRE DAME
tion of outstanding published or produced contributions
dealing with the general subjects of trade-union develop-
ment, race relations, civil liberties, world peace and re-
lated problems.”
GRANDE GETS GRANT
Dr. Peter P. Grande, assistant professor of education
at Notre Dame, has been awarded a grant to partici-
pate in a research conference on “Learning and Educa-
tional Process” at Stanford University, Palo Alto, Cal.,
June 21 through July 30.
The conference, which is supported by the Cooper-
ative Research Program of the U.S. Office of Education,
will examine developments in psychology and other
behavioral sciences that have potential significance for
education, and also educational developments and needs
that pose questions for the behavioral scientist.
TEN WIN WOODROW WILSON FELLOWSHIPS
Ten Notre Dame seniors have been awarded fellow-
ships for their first year of graduate study by the Woodrow
Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, Princeton, N.J.
Three other Notre Dame students and an alumnus re-
ceived “honorable mention” in the annual nationwide
competition.
Sir Hugh Taylor, Foundation president, named 1,395
seniors representing 361 colleges and universities who will
receive grants providing tuition and fees at the graduate
school of their choice plus $1,800 for living expenses.
The Notre Dame fellowship winners and their fields
of interest were: Edward L. Burke, Framingham, Mass.,
history; Thomas O. Cullen, Storm Lake, la., English;
Richard J. Farrell, Brooklyn, N.Y., English; Lee E. Foster,
Mankato, Minn., comparative literature; John J. Gearen,
Oak Park, Ill., political science; W. Kelly Morris, Charles-
ton, S.C., drama; John T. Pesta, Allentown, Pa., English
literature; Leon J. Roos, Houston, Tex., political science;
Gregory J. Theissen, Minneapolis, Minn., English; and
Peter J. Wanderer, Spokane, Wash., high energy physics.
Notre Dame men accorded “honorable mention” in
the fellowship competition were William E. Carroll,
Peekskill, N.Y., history; Michael J. Coy, Louisville, Ky.,
history; Charles D. Lovejoy, Jr., Schofield Barracks,
Hawaii, East Asian studies; and Frater Joel Rieck, O.P.,
River Forest, Ill., theology.
Through the years, 114 Notre Dame men have been
awarded graduate fellowships by the Wilson Foundation.
NOONAN AWARDED GUGGENHEIM
Prof. John T. Noonan, Jr., of the Notre Dame Law
School has been awarded a Guggenheim fellowship to
study matrimonial cases in the courts of the Roman
Catholic Church. He will conduct his research in certain
American diocesan tribunals and in the Sacred Roman
Rota at Rome.
Noonan recently returned from Rome where he was
a consultant on historical problems to the Papal Com-
mission on Population, the Family and Natality. He at-
tended the first full meeting of the Commission in the
Eternal City in March.
D’ANTONIO AND PIKE EDIT BOOK
The president of Chile and a leading Latin American
prelate are among 12 contributors to Religion. Revolution
and Reform: New Forces for Change in Latin America,
a new book edited by Dr. William V. D’Antonio and Dr.
Fredrick B. Pike of the Notre Dame faculty.
The volume emanates from a conference on “Religion
and Social Change in Latin America” held at Notre
Dame in April, 1963, with the support of the Rockefeller
Foundation. Its collection of essays constitutes a full-scale
study of the relationship of religion to social change south
of the border.
Chilean President Eduardo Frei Montalva discusses
“Paternalism, Pluralism, and Christian Democratic Re-
form Movements in Latin America.” The Most Rev.
Mark G. McGrath, C.S.C., Bishop of Santiago de Vera-
guas in Panama, examines “The Teaching Authority of
the Church: The Situation in Latin America.”
GORDON GOES TO JAPAN
Dr. Robert E. Gordon, acting head of the department
of biology at Notre Dame, participated in a meeting
March 28-April 1 in Tokyo dealing with the exchange of
scientific information between the United States and
Japan. En route Prof. Gordon lectured in Hawaii and the
Philippines.
Gordon, who is executive secretary of the Conference
of Biological Editors, is one of 11 American scientists who
joined 14 Japanese scientists in studying ways of improv-
ing science publications and means of increasing informa-
tion exchange between the two countries. Gordon, former
editor of Notre Dame’s American Midland Naturalist, is a
specialist in primary scientific publication and has at-
tended several international conferences on the subject.
HAMILTON ELECTED TO NBC POST
Wm. Thomas Hamilton, Vice-President and General
Manager of WNDU-TV-AM-FM the Notre Dame Sta-
tions, was elected to the NBC-TV Affiliates Board of
Delegates at the recent NBC-TV Affiliates Meeting in
New York City.
HOLD PACEM IN TERRIS SYMPOSIUM
The University of Notre Dame held a symposium on
Pope John’s encyclical, Pacem in Terris on May 8.
Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., was chairman of the
event.
Highlighting the symposium were panels on “Building
a Christian Civilization” and “Meeting Responsibilities
in the Modern World” and an address by Dr. George N.
Shuster on “Peace in the World.”
JUSTICE BRENNAN GIVES O’HARA LECTURE
Supreme Court Justice William J. Brennan, Jr., de-
livered the final Cardinal O’Hara Memorial Lecture
of the 1964-65 academic year at Notre Dame on April 21.
He spoke on “Constitutional Adjudication” in the
Memorial Library auditorium.
THREE ATTEND ANNUAL MEETING
Three University of Notre Dame officials attended
the 51st annual meeting of the Association of Collegiate
Registrars and Admissions Officers in Chicago in April.
They were Rev. Joseph Hoffman, C.S.C., acting di-
rector of admissions; Leo M. Corbaci, administrative
assistant to the vice-president for academic affairs; and
Richard J. Sullivan, director of academic records.
19





Hr. Edward T. J. Tracey
P.O. Box 22
State College Pa. 16801
Jr.

The second quarter-century of Science at
as the first — and to some, the years 1890 to
Notre Dame was as eventful
1915 served a catalyst which
brought the study of Science at the University to a prominent position in
Notre Dame's academic circles.
In the early 1890's, Rev. Alexander M. Kirsch, C.S.C., another noted
priest-scientist from Notre Dame was already teaching courses in Bacteri-
ology, some of the first offered in the United States. Father Kirsch's estab-
lishment of a laboratory of Cellular Biology in 1890 was another American
first.
About 1895, Jerome J. Green, of the Engineering faculty, was the first
American to send a wireless message. He also constructed the first X-ray
machine in this part of the country.
In 1904, Rev. Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C. received his Ph.D. in Chemistry
at the Catholic University in Washington, D.C. and came to Notre Dame to
teach Botany and Chemistry. In that same year, on the Notre Dame
Campus, Father Nieuwland carried out the first of the reactions which were
to lead to development of the first practical synthetic rubber.
"The American Midland Naturalist," still published at the University
and recognized throughout the world as a leading botanical journal, was
founded in 1909 by Father Nieuwland.
Rev. John Zahm, C.S.C., and his brother, Dr. Albert Zahm, were also on
the Notre Dame campus contributing to the scientific heritage of the Uni-
versity in the late 1800's. Father Zahm published "Evolution and Dogma"
in 1896 and this book created quite a sensation in the academic world.
Thus, in a period of fifty years — a seemingly long time when com-
pared to the explosion of scientific development in recent years — Notre
Dame progressed in science with remarkable strides.
In future issues of NOTRE DAME Magazine, we will continue to sketch
briefly the highlights of Science at the University since 1865 and our
covers will artistically interpret this growth.
"EiffSMMHG THE TBABmOM OF GREAT TEACHiNG”
As members ©» the Notre Deme family, the year 1965 is vc-rv bn
perlon? to each ©f es. h begins the second
$2@,S05eGG3 pmgram to strengthen the areas
new academic programs end student aid. h afe©
©f -a AShtclk ©nd Convoeafcn Center and
descQ hdte,
half of the Umcrdh/s
of fcaJb/ dcmXap™crX
calls for the- wKstTjatan
two undcrgradue/c- rest-
I? yow hsve'Wt ©kc-ady paHidpatod m this program f© hasp by’Id at*
even better Natre Bsmo, p
coMad the ©Sea below Fer scx.'ciid
inCwm-atfen about Sho part you can play. There Is no oblkjsH&ft. of
THE- WWEGSiW OF NOTSE DAf^E FOUNOATiON
-P.O. BOX 555
NOTBE DATAE, INDIANA 46556
-ar—r

few <OA. M-
