
DANFORTH FELLOWSHIPS AWARDED
Two Notre Dame students were among 97 college men
and women who have been awarded Danforth Graduate
Fellowships for 1962-63 by the Danforth Foundation,
Saint Louis, Mo. They are Edmund Burke III, Green-
wich, Conn., and William J. Irvin, Memphis, Tenn. Both
were seniors in Notre Dame’s College of Arts and Letters.
Each of them received Woodrow Wilson National Fel-
lowships for the first year of graduate study earlier.
FATHER RITER DIES
Rev. Regis H. Riter, C.S.C., 56, died on July 16
at Holy Cross House on campus after an extended illness
of several years. Father Riter taught philosophy at Notre
Dame for a number of years and also served as head of
the philosophy departments of the University of Portland
and St. Edward’s University during his career.
SPACE PHYSICS FOR CAHILL
Kevin Cahill, a junior in the Notre Dame College of
Science from New York City was one of 62 college science
students chosen to participate in a Summer Institute in
Space Physics at Columbia University from July 2 to
August 10.
CARBERRY VISITS CZECHOSLOVAKIA
Dr. James J. Carberry, associate professor of chemical
engineering at Notre Dame, delivered a paper at the
First International Congress on Chemical Engineering,
Machinery and Automation at Brno, Czechoslovakia,
from September 2 through the 8. His subject was “Physi-
cal Factors Affecting Activity and Yield in Heterogeneous
Catalysis.”
FOECKE GOES TO WASHINGTON
Dr. Harold A. Foecke, assistant professor of electrical
engineering at the University of Notre Dame, has been
appointed a specialist for engineering education in the
Higher Education Programs Branch of the U.S. Office of
Education, Washington, D.C.
SCHOSSBERGER ADDRESSES GRADUATES
Emily Schossberger, Director of the Notre Dame
Press, was the commencement speaker at Duchesne Col-
lege, Omaha, Nebraska.
HARWOOD ELECTED
G. Edward Harwood, comptroller of the University,
was elected president of the Central Association of College
and University Business Officers during its 51st annual
meeting at Michigan State University. Representatives of
369 colleges and universities attended the sessions.
SCIENCE PROFS TRAVEL
Three faculty members in Notre Dame’s College of
Science participated in professional meetings in this
country and abroad during the summer months. Dr.
Hans Zassenhaus, professor of mathematics, was at Cam-
bridge University in England; Dr. William H. Hamill,
professor of chemistry associated with Notre Dame’s
Radiation Laboratory, was a speaker at the Gordon Con-
ference on Radiation Chemistry at Meriden, New
Hampshire; and Brother Columba Curran, G.S.C., pro-
fessor of chemistry, traveled to Tokyo for the Inter-
national Symposium on Molecular Structure and
Spectroscopy.
NAME TWO SLOAN WINNERS
The Alfred P. Sloan Foundation of New York City
has awarded two of its national scholarships to young
men who will enter the University of Notre Dame next
September. They are Malcolm A. Coulter, of Dearborn,
Michigan, and Stephen Blaha, Ardsley, New York.
FORD RETIRES FROM DINING HALL
The University of Notre Dame has announced the
retirement of David C. Ford as its director of food
service and dining halls and the appointment of Gilbert
P. Volmi as his successor. Ford joined the Notre Dame
staff in 1943 after eighteen years’ experience with Swift
and Company.
FISCHER IS VENICE FILM JUDGE
Edward A. Fischer, associate professor of communica-
tion arts at Notre Dame, served as a juror at the Inter-
national Film Festival in Venice August 25 to September
8. In each of the past two years he has been a juror at
the American Film Festival in New York City. In addi-
tion to his teaching at the University, Fischer is a film
critic and columnist for The Ave Maria.
HAMILTON ELECTED VEEP
William Thomas Hamilton, general manager of
WNDU-TV and Radio, the University of Notre Dame
stations, has been elected vice president of the Michiana
Telecasting Corporation.
(Continued on page 19)

• EDITOR: JOHN H. JANOWSKI
NOTRE DAME VOL. 15, No. 3, FALL, 1962
Published quarterly by the University of Notre
Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second
class matter May 10, 1928, at Post Office at Notre
Dame, Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.
2 NOTRE DAME
by Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C.
cerned with labels or with administrative patterns, but
with that brace of university activities which are of
Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C. has been director
of the Notre Dame Foundation since January,
1961. He has been a faculty member since 1953
and was head of the Department of Education
from 1957 to 1961.
A native of Jackson, Nebraska, Father Walsh
obtained his B.A. degree from Notre Dame in
1945, and his doctorate from Yale University
in 1953. He is a specialist in the philosophy of
education.
others are co-
as “The Office
or “The Office
of course, con-
r
M A


note
W’


universities these functions and several
ordinated under a central office known
of Public Relations and Development,”
of University Relations.” We are not,
For some time now I have been concerned with think-
ing through, at least to my own satisfaction, the relation-
ship of the Notre Dame Foundation to the other phases
and factors in the life of the University.
At present the Notre Dame Foundation encompasses
or comprises those University activities which have to do
with alumni affairs, general public relations, public in-
formation, and University development, or what is more
commonly called, fund-raising. In many, if not most,
continuing and increasing importance to the University
but which are not either strictly of an academic or
strictly of a business nature.
The problem as I see it is this: for a long time these
activities were considered adjuncts of the university and
at best peripheral to its central purposes. (I doubt if the
University of Paris in St. Thomas’ time had a develop-
ment office and I’m sure Plato’s Academy did not.) The
rise of the private university in this country made fund-
raising, alumni relations, general public relations, and
even public information highly important, but they were
thought to function out in right field of the university
campus. Though important, these activities did not enter
into the teaching-learning process, nor did they push
back the frontiers of knowledge as do the university’s
scholars and research professors, nor did they help direct-
ly in the solution of the community’s short-term or long-
range problems in the practical order, as do the special-
ized service agencies of the modern university. They
were tk ght of as activities which made possible the
emergen' and survival of the great modem private
university but also activities which did not enter into
the life of the university itself.
Many people both in academic circles and in develop-
ment circles felt this was a limited and harmful inter-
A major portion of the Notre Dame Foundation’s current
$18,000,000 Challenge Program is earmarked for the
$8,000,000 Notre Dame Memorial Library, now under
construction north of the Stadium. In the left foreground
is the Radiation Building and on the right is the Comput-
ing Center and Mathematics Building.
pretation, both because it did not serve the best interests
of the university and because it gave a false cast to the
work of the Development Office. The strongest reaction,
of which I am familiar, to this situation came from
Mr. David McCord, for many years Director of the
Harvard Alumni Fund. His position is one with which
I do not agree, as I will explain, but it is exaggerated
with very good effect. He writes in a little booklet called
The Language of Request (page 11) :
“For I maintain that in essence we are a department
of the humanities and not a mechanical agency
created to perform a mechanical operation. We are
projecting institutions—we are not subjecting the
alumni.”
I am intrigued with Mr. McCord’s point. When he
says that development work should be considered a
department of the humanities, he means that the relation-
ship between a university and its alumni, between a
university and its Trustees or Advisory Councils, between
a university and its students, their parents, and between
a university and its many friends and admirers is basically
a human relationship. The humanities have always been
the proper custodian of the affairs of the human heart
and the human spirit. Obviously, the Development Office
could never be a department of the social sciences and
much less so of the natural or physical sciences. But
there is both genuine charm and significant meaning in
the thought that the persons who function in the develop-
ment program of the university should be considered
4 NOTRE DAME
FROM THE GENERAL BULLETIN OF
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
1962-63
The University of Notre Dame Foundation, organized
in 1947, is the official department of the University in
which are coordinated the fund-raising programs di-
rected toward development of the University. As such,
the foundation is charged with the necessary interpreta-
tions of the University to alumni, and to nonalumni
friends, to secure the outside support which Notre Dame,
like all other universities, must have to progress.
The Foundation works in close conjunction with the
Alumni Association, with the Department of Public Rela-
tions and with the Department of Public Information. The
Annual Alumni Fund is a basic part of the Foundation
program.
In addition to the annual Alumni Fund, the Founda-
tion program is directed toward the building up of an-
nual gifts from nonalumni friends; toward the encourage-
ment of capital ,gifts for buildings, for research, for
founded chairs, fellowships and scholarships; toward
gifts by will and bequest; toward gifts of insurance poli-
cies, securities or other forms of gift than money; toward
aid to Notre Dame by corporation giving; and toward
other channels of tangible support which will accelerate
the University’s program and capacity for producing a
maximum number of graduates possessing responsible
moral and intellectual leadership.
professors of the humanities rather than as professional
development personnel or professional public relations
personnel.
Much as I am attracted by Mr. McCord’s thinking
that the Development Office should be a department of
the humanities, I cannot agree with it. I think the
Development Office and the many kinds of things it
attempts to do are essential and integral parts of the
university., but I do not think it finds its proper place
among any of the established academic disciplines. I
think development work is—and must always be—a
humane or humanistic activity. I also think it is an
educational activity, a proper part of the university,
much more than it is an activity simply of collecting
dollars or even winning friends. But the Development
Office would be uncomfortable among the humanities as
such. It draws on the humanities and it must function
humanistically rather than scientifically, but the Develop-
ment Office works in a dimension and with a student
population much different from any of the regular aca-
demic departments. Its function is reflective, and pro-
jective, and it seeks always to interpret and to inform
the alumni and friends of the university and the public
at large. This is an important responsibility of the
university and not simply a postscript to its existence.
Rather than thinking of the Development Office as a
department of the humanities, I prefer to think of the
Development Office as the university’s—if you will excuse
a comparison which might at first seem ambitious—
Department of State. (You note I do not refer to it
as the university’s department of status.) The Depart-
ment of State is of key and integral importance in any
government, even though it has, properly speaking,
neither executive, legislative or judicial activity in its
own right. The parallel, I think, fits at many points.
A Department of State is involved in both foreign policy
and domestic policy because it carries domestic policy
abroad and relates foreign policy to domestic conditions
and moods. Its primary work is not simply to keep peace
or to win friends but to promote the intentions, the
modes, and the aspirations of its government. The State
Department is concerned with sending ambassadors to
foreign lands, with bringing visitors to its shores, with
protecting the rights of its citizens and with promoting
the welfare of its government and the fullest growth of
its citizens.
We could explore this analogy at many other points,
but perhaps you will accept its import for the moment.
For example, nationals living abroad, for no matter how
long a period, remain citizens. The Department of State
keeps a close interest in these persons, and in like
manner, the Development Office keeps a close interest
in its nationals, its alumni, no matter how distant in
time and space they may be from the campus.
If you grant that the function of the Development
Office of the university is similar to the function of a
Department of State, then we have some grounds for
understanding the basic and true meaning of a Develop-
ment Office at a university. Let me say immediately that
the proper function of a Development Office is not the
raising of money. The securing of financial support
follows from the successful work of a Development Office;
it is not the reason for being of that office. I do not
mean at all to say that the securing of funds is un-
important. For the foreseeable future Notre Dame and
all private universities will need and will have to depend
upon financial help from alumni and friends. But even
if we should discover oil under the Notre Dame Stadium
or if some more-than-generous benefactor decided to give
us $100,000,000, the essential work of the Development
Office would not be changed. (At the moment I’m not
sure whether such largess would be a good or a bad
thing fox' the University, but you must admit it is an
exciting thought.)
O	0	7
Further, the Development Office, properly conceived,
is not simply a convenient coordinating point for the
handling of alumni relations, the winning of vood will
and of friends, the disseminating of information about
the University, and the conducting of tours around the
campus. These are all important but they are all acci-
dental in the main purpose.
The main purpose of a Development Office in any
university is to interpret and to articulate the very life
and meaning of that university to its own family, i.e.,
its students, its alumni, parents of alumni and students,
and friends of the university as well as to the public at
large. The main purpose of a Development Office is the
proper understanding of that university in the hope that
from understanding will follow love, admiration, ap-
preciation, and, to be sure, support. Everything else is
but a means to this end.
5
<vvS*«,s» fi
Tr
■A- /O
o*w ?/


I'm writing this in August, during
what is supposed to be the dog days.
Actually, they are very busy days heie.
No sooner had all the Summer School
nuns left t about 1500!. when another
1600 Sister Superiors came in for a
week's course. This weekend, we've had
five retreats going — women and teen-
agers, as well as laymen this year. It
was also the reunion weekend for the
Vetville couples, and children. As their
former Chaplain, I guess I enjoyed this
weekend as much, if not more, than
they did, although I'm slightly bruised
from the football game we had. Next
week, there will be thousands ol high
school students here - - boys and girls of
the Catholic Students Mission Crusade.
And so it goes. Earlier this summer,
I made a quick trip to Africa to review
the work of six universities — at Dakar
in Senegal, Accra in Ghana, Ibadan and
Nsukka in East and West Nigeria,
Lovanium in Congo, and Makerere in
Uganda. These are most interesting
universities that contain much of the
hope of these new countries, all of which
were bom within the past ten years. We
also saw all of the ambassadors and cul-
tural affairs officers in connection with
my latest government assignment: The
United States Commission on Inter-
national Educational and Cultural Af-
fairs.
Fortunately, we were able to see Bishop
Vincent J. McCauley. '30, and many
other Notre Dame men who are oper-
ating schools, hospitals, and missions in
Western Uganda all along the eastern
o	o
slope of the Mountains of the Moon, the
Ruwenzori Range that lies between
Uganda and Congo. This is for me the
most interesting part of Africa, bounded
by the White Nile on the north and the
great Elizabeth and Albert game parks
on the south. Notre Dame men. Holy
Cross priests and brothers, are doing
great work there, kirungi as they say in
the Rutoro language.
After two busy weeks in Africa, I was
in Rome for the General Chapter meet-
ing of our Congregation. We elected a
new Canadian Superior General, Father
Germain Lalande, G.S.C.. and had a
new Provincial appointed. Father How-
ard Kenna. C.S.C., Notre Dame’s fust
Academic Vice President and most re-
cently President of Portland University.
These were the highlights of the sum-
mer. Now we await a new crop of stu-
dents for the fall.
Tonight at the Grotto, I met two
young alumni. Gregory Walsh. '60, who
will be a third-year medical student at
the University of Pennsylvania this year,
and Paul Hundt, ’60, who this year will
finish his law work at Columbia Uni-
versity. They were on their wav back
from a wedding of a classmate, stopped
to breathe the peaceful atmosphere of
Notre Dame for a few moments, when
we met, as many Notre Dame men do,
at the Grotto in prayer. We talked about
all that has been happening here — the
new Library, already a landmark, the
new Computing Center, the new Radi-
ation Laboratories, the new Stepan Cen-
ter for student activities, and a host of
other things. They told me how well
Notre Dame men are doing away from
here.
As I left them, I was renewed again
at the though of the abiding loyalty that
characterizes all Notre Dame men, more
than anything else. They realty love this
place; they are proud to belong here,
and they are eager to add to the laurels
of Notre Dame everywhere. Everywhere
I meet them, here and all around the
world, I am deeply proud of them and
their lives, and happy to belong to them,
too.
Devotedly yours in Notre Dame.
«vv

no
picnic!
moving
day poses
many
problems
for
Notre
Dame
Library
Officials
TOY FURNITURE ASSISTS IN NOTRE DAME LIBRARY MOVE
—Members of the University of Notre Dame Library staff
use toy furniture to help plan the arrangement of furnish-
ings for the new $8-million Memorial Library now under
construction. Left to right are Dr. Francis D. Lazenby, as-
sistant director for the humanities division; Victor A.
Schaefer, director of libraries; Frank Long, assistant di-
rector for the science division; Dr. Robert Ennen, assistant
director for technical services, and George Sereiko, as-
sistant director for the social sciences division.
This ai licit appeared originally in the South Bend
Tribune and is reprinted here by permission.
By ROGER BIRDSELL
You just don't pick up and tote 500.000 books acioss
the University of Notre Dame campus.
It takes at least 18 months of planning and prepara-
tion, according to Victor A. Schaefer, director of libraries
at the University.
Schaefer and his staff have been hard at work since
April preparing to move from the old library building
on the west side of the campus to the new $8 million
building now under construction on the east side.
"We will be most happy to move into this wonderful
new building," Schaefer remarked, "but there are a lot
of problems involved in the move itself/’
One problem grows out of the decision to change
7
from the present closed-stack arrangement to an open-
stack arrangement.
The open-stack arrangement, moreover, involves the
division of the present main library collection into two
separate collections, a college library and a research
library.
Schaefer’s staff must make decisions now on the physi-
cal arrangement of book stacks, chairs, desks and the en-
tire furnishing of the new library.
The mechanics of crating, moving and uncrating the
present collection, the various catalogues and other rec-
ords must be planned ahead of time.
Finally, the move must be made with as little dis-
ruption of library services as possible.
TIMING UNCERTAIN
The timing of the move is uncertain. Schaefer would
prefer that it come during August or early September
of 1963, between the summer session and the regular
academic year.
However, it may come earlier or later, when the
library must supply the needs of students and faculty
during the move itself. It all depends on the progress
of construction.
Some basic decisions have already been made. The
college library, designed primarily to meet the needs of
the undergraduate students, will be housed in the large
open areas of the first two floors.
The library staff is now pondering the details of
furniture and stack arrangement for this library, using
large blueprints and toy desks, tables, chairs and stacks
to get an idea of various possible arrangements.
“We are attempting to arrange stacks and furniture
to create a series of relatively small study areas within
what is a very large floor area on each level,” Schaefer
explained.
HUMANITIES ON FIRST FLOOR
The first-floor college library area will be devoted
to humanities, with a goal of about 60,000 volumes in
the stacks and a seating capacity of about 800.
The second floor will be devoted to the social sciences,
with about 140,000 volumes and a seating capacity of
about 1,300.
8 NOTRE DAME
The total university library collection is now 639,226
volumes exclusive of the Law School library, almost
double the collection of a decade ago.
The present main library is very crowded with about
500,000 volumes and a total seating capacity of about
450 for a university of more than 6,000 students. The
new library, with a capacity of 2 million volumes, makes
possible continued expansion of the collection.
Separate technical libraries in law, engineering,
science, biology, architecture and computer and mathe-
matical sciences are maintained in other campus buildings.
They will not be moved to the new library, Schaefer
said, because they are close to related laboratories and
for other reasons.
TOWER FOR RESEARCH
The 10 floors in the central tower of the new library
are being reserved for the research library, which will be
used primarily by faculty and graduate students though
it will also be open to undergraduates.
The tower will provide the first truly adequate re-
search center in the history of the University. The book
collection will be augmented by 120 closed-study carrells
(small rooms) and 250 open carrells.
“The arrangement will certainly assist faculty and
graduate students in research,” Schaefer remarked. “We
simply do not have room for them in the old building,
which means that they must carry the books they want
home.”
Separation of the main collection into separate college
and research collections is a major task of the library
staff which has been under way since April and will
continue until the move.
Two full-time staff members and three students are
now going through the collection and marking each book
Library workers Tom Johnston, John Peters, Conrad
Maslewski and Mariam Lichatowich mark books prior to
the move across campus to the new Notre Dame Me-
morial Library, scheduled to open in the fall of 1963.
destined for the college collection. This involves not only
the pasting of a distinctive bookmark in the book itself,
but the processing of three or four separate catalogue
cards for each book.
A system has been worked out by Dr. Robert Ennen,
assistant director in charge of technical services, which
processes about 4,000 books a month for the college
library. He hopes to have at least 60,000 books processed
by the time the move to the new building is made. New
additions to the total collection are processed as they
arrive.
There will be no discarding of books in the present
collection outside of normal loss because of damage or
wear. “We could hardly throw out books with all the
space we will have,” Schaefer remarked.
The move will also require additions to the library
staff, Schaefer said, but no decisions have been made as
yet on this problem. The present staff includes 26 pro-
NOTRE DAME LIBRARY
INVITED TO JOIN GROUP
The University of Notre Dame Library has been
invited to become a member of the Association of
Research Libraries, according to Victor A. Schaefer,
Notre Dame Librarian.
The invitation was extended by Dr. William S.
Dix, chairman of the Association and Librarian at
Princeton University.
Schaefer said membership in the Association of
Research Libraries is by invitation only and is limited
to major university libraries and certain other li-
braries whose collections and services are recog-
nized as having national significance.
The university libraries affiliated with the As-
sociation are those whose institutions emphasize
research and graduate instruction at the doctoral
level and which support comprehensive collections
of library materials on a permanent basis, he
explained.
fessional librarians, 28 full-time clerical personnel and
70 students working on a part-time basis.
Some of the special facilities in the new library are
a rare-book center with display space and a reading room;
separate rooms for the collections in the Medieval Center,
Maritain Center and the Archives; a 12-channel audio
center; 17 group-meeting rooms; several typing rooms;
a 300-seat auditorium; four public elevators, and 194
faculty offices.
This is the preliminary sketch of the granite mural
which will appear on the south tower wall of the new
Notre Dame Memorial Library. It will measure 64 feet
wide by 130 feet high. Produced by Millard Sheets,
nationally known muralist and painter, it has the tenta-
tive title, “Saints and Scholars Through the Ages.”
9
WWWiii
I
>
3
i
*
I
I
1




Looking south from the Golden Dome in 1912, Sorin and Walsh Halls
(left) marked the extent of buildings at that time. Toaay, a helicopter view
of the south campus shows an abundance of trees as well as many build-
ings which have been erected during the 50-year period.



*
I
ft'
s
I
5


Fifty years ago (below) Rev. Charles
L. Doremus, C.S.C., had been or-
dained two years and was teaching
French at the University. Today, he
still carries on his priestly duties and
resides in Corby Hall on the campus.




*
V
4
i’
The 1912 view of
e J
it
I
i
th



?!?
1

The
University
Bfi
»>r^n?


_ _ the northeast camous (left) shows the playing field used
by the minims (grade-school boys) directly behind St. Edward’s Hall. To-
day, the_water tower, Keenan and Stanford Halls, and the Stepan Center
are just a few of the buildings now in that same area-


*s
4 !e<
£
i ,s
?
'J*:?!

With the start of the Fall
semester of 1962, we thought
it would be interesting to delve
into the past for a moment
and come up with some
miliar campus scenes of
years ago.
In 1912, Rev. John
fa-
50
w.
Cavanaugh, C.S.C., (below)
was the ninth president of the
University of Notre Dame. He
directed the operations of this
institution of higher learning
(Continued on next page)
„ Theatre of 1912 (left) featured male
Today, real girls use the same Washington Hall stage, as in
students in female roles.
South Pacific.
■
ROCKNE
1912-1962




(Continued from previous page)
with an uncommon fervor, something characteristic
of
Notre Dame’s presidents through the years.
Prophetically, the September 28, 1912 issue of the
Notre Dame Scholastic carried the following article:
“At the commencement of the present university year
the registration is far beyond former records. The outlook
for a successful and enthusiastic scholastic session is, there-
fore, exceedingly bright; and the reputation which has at-
tended our school because of the records of her students
and the resourcefulness of those who direct her destinies
seems to be gathering strength from day to day.
“The presence of so many new students should prove
a source of encouragement to those who have the work of
the University very much at heart. One very encouraging
feature, too, by this time apparent, is the comparatively
large number of men doing post-graduate work. Old
students have returned, and new students, finished with
their work at other colleges, have chosen this University
for advanced study.
“Notre Dame holds an exalted position among the in-
stitutions of learning in the United States, and we feel
assured that the greatly increased enrollment of this year
is the result of a well-deserved recognition of the Univer-
sity’s worth, and is only the auspicious forerunner of an
increasingly bright future.”
In 1962, as the 121st academic year begins, Notre Dame
once more looks to the future — with faith, confidence
and desire.
CREDITS—1912 Photos from the University of Notre Dame
Archives; Knute Rockne Memorial from Wide World Photos;
1962 pictures from M. Bruce Harlan, University Photographer.
NORWAY AND NOTRE DAME
HONOR A FAVORITE SON
A memorial plaque of the late famed Notre Dame
football coach Knute Rockne was dedicated on June 23
in Voss, Norway, the birthplace of this man whose name
will live forever in the annals of collegiate football
history.
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, G.S.C., executive vice presi-
dent of the University of Notre Dame and chairman of
the faculty board in control of athletics, represented
the University at the ceremonies and delivered an
address.
The bronze plaque, which is set in a huge granite
stone, bears a portrait of the famous coach and the fol-
lowing inscription, both in English and Norwegian:
“Knute Rockne, giant of American foot-
ball, was born here March 4, 1888. He
left Norway as a small boy and became
a pioneer and an all-time great in
American football as a player and coach
at the University of Notre Dame. Died,
March 31, 1931. Dedicated, 1962.”
The fall of 1912 was the beginning of Knute K.
Rockne’s junior year at Notre Dame. In 1913, he was
elected captain of the team and during that season
teamed up with quarterback Gus Dorais to lead the
Fighting Irish to a 35-13 upset win over highly touted
Army at West Point.
Fifty years later it is fitting to recall Knute Rockne’s
early life at Notre Dame, and join with Father Joyce in
saying, “. . . America is a better place because a
Norwegian boy put his extraordinary talents of mind
and heart to work at a university dedicated to uplifting
the minds and hearts of men.”
12 NOTRE DAME
I
Annual Retreat Attracts 1400
More than 1400 persons attended the 45th annual
layman’s retreat at Notre Dame on August 16 to 19.
For the first time, the Notre Dame Big Retreat included
not only men, but wives, mothers and teen-age youngsters.
Colonel William Clasby, chaplain of the U. S. Air Force,
served as retreat master.
William F. Eagan
Richard Thompson
Two appointments in the University of Notre Dame
liberal arts and graduate schools were announced recently
by Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.G., vice president for
academic affairs.
Dr. Richard Thompson, associate professor in the
General Program of Liberal Education, has been named
assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters. He
succeeds Dr. Frank Keegan who has resigned the post.
Keegan has been on leave as a training officer for the
Peace Corps in Washington, D.C.
Dr. William F. Eayan, associate professor of business
organization and management, has been appointed acting
dean of the Graduate School from Sept. 1 until February
1, 1963. Rev. Paul Beichner, G.S.C., the graduate dean,
will be on leave-of-absence during the first semester of
the 1962-63 school year.
Summer Session for 3,167
A total of 3,167 students, including 1,472 nuns, at-
tended summer classes at Notre Dame. Graduation ex-
ercises at the close of the summer session were held on
the afternoon of August 2 at the Grotto of Our Lady of
Lourdes on campus where Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, G.S.G.,
executive vice-president, awarded nearly 400 graduate and
undergraduate degrees. Dr. Ernest Sandeen of the English
department delivered the commencement address and
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former president of the
University and recently named director of student re-
ligious life, gave the baccalaureate sermon during a
Solemn Mass in Sacred Heart Church in the morning.
Kresge Foundation Gives $100,000
The Kresge Foundation of Detroit, Michigan has ear-
marked a grant of $100,000 toward the construction of
the thirteen-story Notre Dame Memorial Library. The
Kresge Foundation’s board of trustees specified that the
grant will be paid when the University receives $7,900,000
in gifts for the library from its alumni, friends and other
sources.
History Teachers Gather
The forthcoming Ecumenical Council of the Roman
Catholic Church and Pope John XXIII’s encyclical,
“Mater et Magistra,” were the high fights of the History
Teachers’ Club of the University of Notre Dame’s annual
meeting on the campus July 6 and 7.
C.S.M.C. Draws More Than 4,000
More than 4,000 young people attended the 20th
national convention of the Catholic Students’ Mission
Crusade at the University of Notre Dame on August 23
to 26. “A New Spirit for a New Age” was the theme
for the sessions which were held principally at the new
Stepan Center on the campus. The theme and con-
vention program are based largely on the notable encycli-
cal of Pope John XXIII, “Matei' et Magistra.” Mem-
bers of the hierarchy who participated in the convention
included: Archbishop Karl J. Alter of Cincinnati, who
is CSMC president; Bishop Leo A. Pursley of Fort Wayne-
South Bend, the episcopal host; Bishop Raymond H.
Ackerman, G.S.Sp., of Covington. Ky.; Bishop Alfred
F. Mendez, C.S.G., of Arecibo, Puerto Rico; Bishop
Raymond A. Lane, M.M., former superior general of
Maryknoll; and Bishop Peter Dery, W.F., of Wa, China.
Father Bouyer Teaches
Rev. Louis Bouyer, professor of Church history at the
Catholic Institute of Paris, was a faculty member in the
University of Notre Dame’s summer Liturgy Program.
Catholic Bandmasters Meet
Forty music educators attended the convention of the
National Catholic Bandmasters’ Association at the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame on August 10 and 11. Bernard
Qubeck, of St. Joseph’s College, Rensselaer, Indiana, is
president of the organization whose membership includes
band directors at approximately 350 high schools and
colleges throughout the country.
Standard Oil Makes 3-Year Grant
The Standard Oil Foundation, Inc., has awarded the
University of Notre Dame a grant of $10,000 a year for
the next three years, according to an announcement by
John E. Swearingen, Foundation president and president
of the Standard Oil Company (Indiana).
Father Wendel Named Assistant V.P.
Rev. Paul G. Wendel, C.S.G., has been appointed
assistant vice president for business affairs at the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame, according to Rev. Theodore M.
Hesburgh, G.S.C., University president.
In his newly created post, Father Wendel will be in
charge of most of the University’s auxiliary enterprises
including dining halls and food service, The Morris Inn,
the golf course and bookstore.
Father Wendel will continue to assist Rev. Jerome J.
Wilson, C.S.C., vice president for business affairs, in the
operation of that division of the University. He will also
continue to serve as coordinator of meetings and as
director of student aid during the 1962-63 school year.
13
bShtibtiiaaiaMN&gSl

“ . . . the pursuit
of excellence . . . ”
DEANS’ OUTLOOK
Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C.
Graduate School
Joseph O'Meara, Jr.
Law School
Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C.
College of Arts and Letters
Norman D. Gay
College of Engineering
Graduate School
In the Graduate School last year the
University awarded 56 Ph.D. degrees and
459 Master’s degrees; a comparable pro-
duction is expected for the academic year
1962-63 and the coming Summer Session,
with a slight increase of doctorates. This
year 23 students are studying on National
Defense Graduate Fellowships; 11 of these
are new students and 12 are old students
in the second or the third year of their
fellowships. The Office of Education ap-
proved the new doctoral program in the
Department of Chemical Engineering to
receive three, and the expanded Soviet
and East European Studies Program spon-
sored by the Department of Political
Science to receive four.
A corps of 12 graduate student assistants
will work in the new Computer Center,
the heart of which will be a UNIVAC
1107. They are studying for degrees in
the various fields of science, engineering,
and social science, and they will assist
faculty members in applying computer
technology to the solution of research
problems in their respective disciplines.
Law School
Supreme Court Justice Byron R. White
will preside over the court hearing the
final argument in the Annual Moot Court
Competition in October. This will be the
seventh consecutive year in which a mem-
ber of the Supreme Court of the United
States has presided over the Notre Dame
Moot Court.
The president of the American Bar As-
sociation, Mr. Sylvester G. Smith, Jr., will
be the featured speaker at the annual Law
Honors Banquet next spring. Mr. Smith’s
visit will mark the sixth consecutive year
in which the Law Honors Banquet has
been addressed by the president of the
American Bar Association.
The annual scholarship campaign
raised a record total of more than $60,000.
This makes it possible to assist an increas-
ing number of eager, talented students
who, otherwise, could not afford to come
to Notre Dame.
College of Arts and Letters
The minimum standard required for an
“AB Pre-med” is a 3.5 cumulative aver-
age at the end of freshman year and a
4.0 at the end of sophomore year and
thereafter. The equivalents are C+ or
80 to 85% for freshmen, and B or 85 to
90% for sophomores and up.
The main reasons for this minimum
standard are: 1) realism towards the stu-
dent; and 2) protection of the college.
Under point one, normally one would
expect only B and above students to
qualify for admission to medical school.
Under point two, “AB pre-meds” are
dispensed from an AB major, and take a
combined major, AB and Science. AB
can handle a few of these, namely those
who qualify under the above standard.
But AB could not handle the flood of G
students who would no doubt apply for
this program if the restrictive standard did
not exist.
College of Engineering
Contrary to recent national trends, the
number of Freshmen indicating their in-
tention to study Engineering at Notre
Dame will increase about 5% this year to
approximately 434. This would place the
total enrollment in the College of Engi-
neering at about 1500 undergraduate stu-
dents, if these first-year intents are in-
cluded. At the same time, graduate en-
rollment is increasing as the relatively new
doctoral programs in Chemical and Me-
chanical Engineering gather momentum.
Several outstanding new faculty mem-
bers have been appointed, among whom
are the following: Dr. Leo Auth, Dr.
Norman Krohn, Dr. Harry Lafuse and
Dr. James Massey in the Electrical Engi-
neering Department; Dr. Anthony Skel-
land in the Chemical Engineering Depart-
ment; Dr. Dennis Readey in the Metal-
lurgical Engineering Department; Dr.
Albin Szewczyk in the Mechanical Engi-
neering Department; and Professor Carl
Nelson in the Department of Architecture.
Dr. E. W. Jerger has been appointed
Acting-Head of the Mechanical Engineer-
ing Department and Professor L. F.
Stauder, Acting-Head of the Electrical
Engineering Department.
The undergraduate curricula in all the
Engineering Departments are being re-
vised to take advantage of the new Uni-
versity Freshman Year of Studies and to
emphasize the fundamental aspects of the
engineering sciences.
College of Business Administration
The College of Business Administration
has always been “a four-year college” be-
ginning some instruction in business in the
Freshman year. With the inauguration of
the Year of Freshman Studies young men
in their first year at Notre Dame will take
no business courses. Dr. James W. Cul-
liton, dean, is offering one course “Busi-
ness in Society” which will satisfy the
social science requirement of the new
14 NOTRE DAME
James W. Culliton
College of Business Administration
Frederick D. Rossini
College of Science
Freshman, program but this is not a part
of the College’s requirement and will be
taken by students who do not expect to
enter the College as Sophomores.
During the year the faculty will draw
up the College’s three-year program which
will continue the basic philosophy of the
present curriculum adjusted to mesh with
the new Freshman program. Considera-
tion is being given to strengthen instruc-
tion in quantative controls and to allow-
ing the students somewhat more freedom
in electing courses.
Two faculty members will be away on
leave of absence: Paul Conway to study
for the doctorate at New York University,
and John Houck who has been awarded
a Danforth Fellowship to take advanced
study at the Harvard Law School. Dr. S.
Richardson Reid, who has just earned his
doctorate at St. Louis University, will join
the faculty in September.
College of Science
In order to build effectively upon the
new Notre Dame Freshman Year of
Studies, the College of Science has pre-
pared new curricula for the Sophomore,
Junior, and Senior Years for students
majoring in the Departments of Biology,
Chemistry, Geology, Mathematics, Physics,
and Preprofessional Studies. These cur-
ricula have been arranged to provide a
top-flight undergraduate education for
men intending to make their careers in
science, involving good grounding in the
fundamentals of the basic sciences and
thorough study of the advanced concepts
of the chosen science, with good courses
in the humanistic and social studies, in-
cluding theology. Graduates of these pro-
grams are welcomed into the best Gradu-
ate Schools of the country.
In gradute studies, the College of
Science has over 200 regular, full-time,
fully-supported, graduate students in doc-
toral programs in biology, chemistry,
mathematics, and physics.
The advance of graduate research in
science at Notre Dame will be significantly
accelerated by the new facilities under
construction and in the planning stages:
The Computing Center and Mathematics
Building, to be completed this fall; the
Radiation Building, for the Radiation
Laboratory, to be completed next spring;
additional space for research in the Lo-
bund Laboratory and Biology, in the
planning stage; new space for a 20 millon-
electron-volt linear accelerator, for re-
search in nuclear physics, in the planning
stage. Additional new Members of the
Faculty are being recruited to participate
in this advance in science at Notre Dame.
Noted Chemist Is Named First
Nonteaching Research Scientist
Dr. Francis O. Rice, prize-winning chemist and
author of more than 80 articles in scientific journals, has
been appointed Principal Research Scientist in Chemistry
at the University of Notre Dame.
Rice was head of the department of chemistry at the
Catholic University of America from 1938 to 1959 and
has headed the chemistry department at Georgetown
University since that time. At Notre Dame he will be
associated with the University’s Radiation Laboratory
and will have the concurrent title of Visiting Research
Professor of Chemistry.
The Radiation Laboratory, a research organization
directed by Professor Milton Burton, who once studied
under Dr. Rice, is engaged in the most extensive radia-
tion chemistry research under way on any university
campus. Beginning next spring it will be quartered in
a $2,200,000 Radiation Building being erected by the
U. S. Atomic Energy Commission. '
Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, dean of the College of
Science and chairman of the University Research Council,
said Rice’s appointment, which is effective September 1,
is the first of a new class of professional, nonteaching
research staff at Notre Dame.
The new category of positions has been created,
Rossini said, to reduce the work load of regular faculty
members and “to provide continuity of experience and
know-how” for Notre Dame’s major research facilities.
These include the Radiation Laboratory, the Computing
Center, also under construction, and the Lobund Labo-
ratory which has pioneered in germfree animal research.
The nonteaching research staff will have three ranks:
research scientist (or engineer), senior research scientist
scientist, Rossini said.
Dr. Rice is best known for his
research and publications dealing
with kinetics and mechanism of
reactions. His pioneering work
laid the foundation for much of
our present knowledge of free
radical reactions. Collaborating
with Prof. Karl Herzfeld at The
Johns Hopkins University, he
showed that complicated radical
chain mechanisms could be de-
scribed by simple, over-all kinetic
laws.
principal research
Francis O. Rice
15
I
by James E. Murphy
Director of Public Information
Aside from the Lae tare Medal, which is awarded only
to American Catholic laymen, the conferring of honorary
degrees is the principal means by which the University
of Notre Dame recognizes the achievement of notable
men and women.
Through its 120 years the University has awarded
doctorates, honoris causa, to nearly four hundred dis-
tinguished figures: Presidents and Princes of the Church,
members of the hierarchy and the Cabinet, scientists and
scholars, trustees and benefactors, and priests whose names
loom large in the annals of the Congregation of Holy
Cross.
The first honorary degree in America is believed to
have been awarded by Harvard University in 1692. Notre
Dame conferred its first honorary Doctor of Laws in
1849, when the University was just seven years old, to
David L. Gregg and Gardner Jones. At that commence-
ment there were only two members of the graduating
class, both young Holy Cross priests. The senior class of
1962 numbered 1,150 young men.
Up to the turn of the century, Notre Dame presented
seventy-five honorary degrees, a third of them at the
commencement of 1895 which marked the official observ-
ance of the University’s golden anniversary. (The cele-
bration had been postponed, largely due to the sickness
and death of Notre Dame’s founder and first president,
Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C.) Twenty-six honorary
doctorates, the largest number conferred before or since,
were awarded at the University’s diamond jubilee in
1917.
One of Notre Dame’s most memorable convocations
took place on October 25, 1936, when Eugenio Cardinal
Pacelli, less than three years later to reign as Pope Pius
XII, became an honorary alumnus. The degree was con-
ferred on the then Papal Secretary of State by the presi-
dent of the University, Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C.,
who himself was destined to become a cardinal.
16 NOTRE DAME
Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli, later Pope Pius XII, receives
an honorary Notre Dame degree in 1936 from Rev.
John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., University President.
The current chief of the Vatican’s diplomatic corps,
Amleto Cardinal Cicognani holds an honorary doctorate
from Notre Dame as do four American members of the
Sacred College: Cardinals Spellman of New York, Cush-
ing of Boston, Ritter of Saint Louis and McIntyre of
Los Angeles. Cardinal Spellman became an honorary
Notre Dame alumnus in 1935 when he was Auxiliary
Bishop of Boston. Since then, he has been similarly
honored by some forty institutions, Catholic and non-
Gatholic. On a recent visit to the campus, His Eminence
expressed a special affection for Notre Dame “because it
honored me when I didn’t amount to much!”
Cardinals whose names are linked prominently with
the Ecumenical Council and the government of the
Church throughout the world are among Notre Dame’s
distinguished honorary alumni. Included are Cardinals
Agagianian, Valeri and Ottaviani of the Vatican, Austra-
lia’s Gilroy, Gracias of Bombay, Koenig of Vienna, Ler-
Glenn T. Seaborg, chairman of the U. S. Atomic Energy
Commission, accepts Notre Dame's honorary doctorate
at commencement exercises in 1961. Rev. Edmund P.
Joyce, C.S.C., (left) adjusts the hood while Father
Hesburgh makes the presentation.
caro and Montini of Bologna and Milan respectively,
China’s Tien, and Rugambwa of Tanganyika, the latter
the first Negro Prince of the Church
Two presidents of the United States and a young
Congressman who later became Chief Executive came
to Notre Dame to receive honorary degrees and deliver
major addresses. At a mid-year commencement on Jan-
uary 29, 1950, Rep. John F. Kennedy of Massachusetts
was presented a Doctor of Laws degree by Rev. John
J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., then president of the University.
The 33-year-old legislator chose as the theme of his
address the need for “men and women of integrity and
competence in government.” Incidentally, the President’s
father, Joseph P. Kennedy, and his maternal grand-
father, John Francis Fitzgerald, also received honorary
degrees from Notre Dame.
Some fourteen years earlier, on December 9, 1935,
President Franklin D. Roosevelt accepted an honorary
doctorate from Notre Dame during a campus convocation
celebrating Philippine independence. Also honored on
that occasion was Philippine statesman Carlos P. Romulo
who declared in a prophetic speech:
“If war comes or fresh conquest from whatever source,
we shall oppose it to the death. ... To the Philippines,
the United States has been a generous benefactor, a loyal
and true friend' and if we can honor that debt in no
other way, we can pay with our lives if need be. . .”
Nearly twenty-five years were to elapse before another
President visited Notre Dame while in office. President
Dwight D. Eisenhower delivered the commencement ad-
dress and received an honorary Doctor of Laws degree
from the University on June 5, 1960. The President at-
tended a commencement luncheon and visited the Uni-
versity gallery before donning his cap and gown for the
academic procession. Before receiving his doctorate from
President Franklin D. Roosevelt addresses a special con-
vocation at the University of Notre Dame after receiving
an honorary doctorate in 1935.
Sister M. Madeleva, C.S.C., former president of St. Mary's
College, is honored by the neighboring University of
Notre Dame in 1953 as she accepts an honorary doc-
torate from Notre Dame’s President, Rev. Theodore M.
Hesburgh, C.S.C.
the president of the University, Father Hesburgh, Mr.
Eisenhower was cited as “the most eminent statesman
of his time.”
An impressive roster of scholars and artists hold hon-
orary degrees from Notre Dame. Among them are phi-
losophers Jacques Maritain and Mortimer Adler, his-
torians Samuel Eliot Morison and John Tracy Ellis; the
legendary G. K. Chesterton; mathematician Marston
Morse; the late celebrated sculptor, Ivan Mestrovic;
theologian John Courtney Murray; and professor-diplo-
mat Charles H. Malik.
In the field of science and technology, Notre Dame has
conferred its accolade on Glenn T. Seaborg, chairman
of the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, and on his
predecessor in that post, John McCone, now director
of the Central Intelligence Agency. Other honorary
Notre Dame alumni who are prominent figures in science
include Dr. Detlev Bronk, president of the Rockefeller
Institute for Medical Research; Dr. Peter Debye, Nobel
Prize-winning chemist; Sir Hugh Stott Taylor, now presi-
dent of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foun-
dation; and Notre Dame’s own science dean, Dr. Fred-
erick D. Rossini.
Guglielmo Marconi, who gave radio to the world, came
to Notre Dame to accept an honorary degree in 1933,
and General David Sarnoff, who perhaps more than any
one man developed radio broadcasting in this country,
was honored with a doctorate at the dedication of
WNDU-TV in 1955.
Two pairs of brothers, and two married couples are
among those who have been awarded honorary degrees
by Notre Dame. The Mayo brothers, Dr. Charles and
Dr. William, the founders of the world-famed Mayo
Clinic, were honored at the 1936 commencement. Another
set of celebrated brothers were the Zahms, Rev. John
A., C.S.C., and Albert F., who stepped forward to re-
ceive doctorates in 1917. Father John Zahm was a
prodigious scholar and scientist, Notre Dame vice presi-
17


dent and provincial superior of the Congregation of
Holy Cross. His brother, Albert, was a pioneer aero-
nautical scientist who received the Laetare Medal in
1925.
The late Ernest M. Morris, a 1906 law graduate of
Notre Dame, mounted the commencement platform forty
years later to accept a doctorate. His widow, who serves
as chairman of the Women’s Advisory Council at the
University, became an honorary alumna of her husband’s
school in 1957. Mr. and Mrs. Morris are the donors of
The Morris Inn at the entrance to the campus.
Frank J. Lewis, the Chicago philanthropist who lived
to be 93, received an honorary doctorate the same day
his son, Edward, was awarded his undergraduate degree
in 1954. Mrs. Frank J. Lewis, described in her citation
as “the gentle lady who has given so much so gladly,”
became a Doctor of Fine Arts at Notre Dame’s most
recent commencement last June. The Lewis Foundation
will underwrite the construction of a new graduate resi-
dence hall for nuns at the University in the near future.
Four Sisters are among Notre Dame’s predominantly
male honorary alumni. They are Sister M. Madeleva,
C.S.C., former president of Saint Mary’s College; Sister
Mary Emil, I. H. M., a leader in the Sister Formation
Conference; Mother Mary Gerald Barry, O.P., of the
Dominican Sisters, Adrian, Mich.; and Mother M. Rose
Elizabeth, C.S.C., of the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
The University of Notre Dame has conferred its great-
est number of honorary degrees on American prelates
who preached the baccalaureate sermon, on statesmen and
educators who delivered the commencement address, and
on lay trustees and other advisors who had rendered long
and faithful service to the University.
Members of the hierarchy so honored in recent years
include Archbishop Paul J. Hallinan of Atlanta, a 1932
Notre Dame graduate; Bishop John J. Wright of Pitts-
burgh, and Bishop Leo A. Pursley of Fort Wayne-South
Bend, episcopal host at many major campus events.
Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C. (left) and Rev. John J.
Cavanaugh, C.S.C. (center) assist Congressman John
F. Kennedy of Massachusetts with the academic hood
presented with an honorary degree in 1950.
Dr. Thomas Dooley is congratulated by President Dwight
D. Eisenhower during the 1960 Commencement exer-
cises when both men were given honorary degrees by
the University of Notre Dame.
Commencement speakers of recent years who joined
the ranks of Notre Dame’s honorary alumni include Chief
Justice Earl Warren, former United Nations Ambassador
Henry Cabot Lodge, Admiral Arleigh Burke, Attorney
General Herbert Brownell and Peace Corps director R.
Sargent Shriver, Jr.
Since the University’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees
was established in 1920, Notre Dame has conferred
honorary doctorates on more than a score of its mem-
bers. Representative of this group, which helps guide the
destiny of the University, are four men whose names are
synonymous with major buildings on the campus: I. A.
O’Shaughnessy, James F. Keenan, Joseph A. LaFortune
and Thomas W. Pangborn.
Notre Dame generally has awarded its honorary de-
grees to persons in the prime of life or even advanced
in years, but one of its most widely acclaimed honorary
alumni was a young man who had taken his pre-medical
education at the University: the late Dr. Thomas Dooley.
As the cancer-stricken physician accepted his degree,
President Eisenhower walked from his place on the plat-
form to congratulate him. A moment later, the President
said of Dooley: “Few if any men that I know have
equalled his example of complete self-sacrifice, faith in
his God and readiness to serve his fellow men.”
NOTRE DAME NEWS
(Continued from page 2)
BROWNE AND DARDEN VISIT PADUA
Dr. Cornelius P. Browne and Dr. Sperry E. Darden,
both associate professors of physics at the University of
Notre Dame, attended an International Symposium on
Direct Interactions and Nuclear Reaction Mechanisms
at Padua, Italy, from September 3 to 8.
SAMORA GETS GRANT
Dr. Julian Samora, associate professor of sociology at
the University of Notre Dame, has been awarded a
$12,060 grant by the U. S. Commission on Civil Rights
for a study on “Civil Rights Problems of Spanish Speak-
ing People in the United States.”
BALDINGER VISITS EUROPE
Dr. Lawrence Baldinger, associate dean of the Col-
lege of Science at the University of Notre Dame and
head of its department of pre-professional studies, visited
several of the major medical schools in Europe including
those at Lisbon, Rome, Bologna, Vienna, Paris, London
and Dublin.
BROTHER RAPHAEL AT ARGONNE
Brother Raphael Wilson, C.S.C., assistant professor
of biology at Notre Dame and a member of its Lobund
Laboratory staff, was awarded a fellowship by the Ameri-
can Society for Microbiology. He used the grant for four
weeks’ study at the Argonne National Laboratory,
Argonne, Ill.
ROSS LECTURES AT WISCONSIN
Prof. Arnold E. Ross, head of the department of mathe-
matics at Notre Dame, was a lecturer at a meeting of the
National Council of Teachers of Mathematics at the
University of Wisconsin, on August 15 to 17.
HOUCK WINS CAVANAUGH AWARD
Carl P. Houck, of Denver, Colorado and a 1962
graduate of the University of Notre Dame’s College of
Engineering, has been named recipient of the Theology
Department’s third annual Rev. Joseph H. Cavanaugh
Award.
ETA KAPPA NU ESTABLISHED
A chapter of Eta Kappa Nu, the electrical engineering
honor society, was recently established at the University
of Notre Dame, according to Prof. Lawrence Stauder,
faculty advisor. The 35 charter members of the chapter
included professional engineers in the South Bend area,
members of the University faculty, and graduate and
undergraduate electrical engineering students.
NEW DIRECTORY PUBLISHED
A new directory of Catholic colleges and universities
in the United States will be published in Spanish and
Portuguese next January for the benefit of Latin-Am eri-
can students planning to enroll in American institutions.
The directory will be the third and revised edition of
the “Guia de Informacion sobre las Instituciones Cato-
licas Estadounidenses” published originally in 1957 by
the Catholic Conference on Inter-American Student
Problems. Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C., head of Notre
Dame’s Theology Department, is president of the Con-
ference.
FATHER WALSH DISCUSSES EDUCATION
The image of Catholic higher education was the
subject of a talk by Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., director
of the Notre Dame Foundation, during the 46th annual
conference of The American College Public Relations
Association at White Sulphur Springs, West Va., July 1-5.
Other Notre Dame officials attending the conference
were James E. Murphy, director of public information;
James W. Frick, executive director of the Foundation;
and John H. Janowski, editor of Notre Dame.
GALLERY GETS 7 PAINTINGS
Seven paintings by contemporary artists have been
donated to the University of Notre Dame gallery by G.
David Thompson, Pittsburgh, Pa., industrialist and con-
noisseur, according to curator John Howett. The paint-
ings, described by Howett as “non-objective,” are “Fin-
negan” by James Brooks; “Red Composition” by Georges
Nathieu; “Composition” by Claude Georges; “Fu Hsi’s
Calendar I” by Alfred Jensen; “Composition” by Karel
Appel; “Composition” by Wolf Barth; and “Futuristic
Cheesecake of America” by Hassel Smith.
LOBUND HOSTS 125
One hundred twenty-five research scientists and
animal breeders attended The Third Symposium on
Gnotobiotic Technology at Notre Dame sponsored by the
University’s Lobund Laboratory and the Institute for
Laboratory Animal Resources. Philip C. Trexler, as-
sociate research professor of bacteriology and a veteran
member of the Lobund staff, was general chairman of
the symposium.
FATHER LAUCK FEATURED
Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.G., head of the University
of Notre Dame art department, participated in a Con-
ference on Christian Humanism at Asheville, N.C., in
August. He lectured and conducted seminars on “The
Artist’s Vision” at the Conference which is sponsored by
the Most Rev. Vincent S. Waters, Bishop of Raleigh.
The sessions are designed for college teachers for the
study of Christian culture in education.
SCOTT ATTENDS WORLD CONGRESS
Thomas A. Scott, of Pittsburgh, Pa., a senior in Notre
Dame’s College of Business Administration was one of
12 American delegates to the Pax Romana World Con-
gress held at Montevideo, Uruguay, in July. Pax Ro-
mana is an international movement of Catholic college
students.
DR. JERGER DELIVERS PAPER
Dr. Edward W. Jerger, associate professor of me-
chanical engineering at Notre Dame, presented a paper
at the annual meeting of the American Society of Engi-
neering Education at the U.S. Air Force Academy,
Colorado Springs, Colo., in June.
PROFESSOR RICHTER DIES
Professor Elton E. Richter, who retired from Notre
Dame in 1958 after teaching in the Law School for 28
years, died on June 9 in LaPorte, Indiana after a three-
day illness. He was an expert in the field of contracts
and equities and formerly served on the board of gover-
nors of the United States Steel Corporation. He was 72.
19

Mr. F'd^ard J. J- Tracey
BOyears
State
ago«»«

Box 436
Collese* Pa.
Most of Notre Dame's new east quadrangle was
farm land — pastures and fields of corn and hay.
Today, rising from this same ground are the
13-story Notre Dame Memorial Library, the Com-
puting Center and Mathematics Building, and the
Radiation Laboratory Building.
Previously erected on some of this same
ground were Nieuwland Science Hall, O'Shaugh-
nessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts, and the
Notre Dame Stadium,'among others.
As in all things, the passage of time always
brings changes to a great University. To pave the
way for such progress, the Notre Dame Founda-
tion was established in 1947 to enlist the help of
Notre Dame alumni and friends in a continuing
program of development.
Truly, no gift is too large — no gift is too small
to speed Notre Dame's advancement among the
world's great universities. And your gifts to Notre
Dame not only support this growth, but enable
you to share in the great work of developing our
nation's finest young men — physically, mentally,
and morally.
Notre Dame's future is in your hands.
Won't you lend a hand now?
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PLEASE CONTACT:
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION
Notre Dame, Indiana
1W Dames
1. Memorial Library . . . $8,000,000
. Two Graduate Residence
Halls................$4,000,000
3. Faculty Fund .... $3,500,000
. Student Aid .... $2,000,000
Administrative Fund .	. $ 500,000
1