FATHER HESBURGH IS AWARD RECIPIENT
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the
University of Notre Dame, was one of four recipients
of the 1963 Bill of Rights Award at ceremonies presided
over by Mayor Robert F. Wagner, in New York City in
December.
Father Hesburgh, who is a member of the U. S.
Commission on Civil Rights, was cited “for distinguished
public service in the field of education.” The awards
marked the 172nd anniversary of the ratification of the
American Bill of Rights and were made by the American
Bill of Rights Day Association, New York City.
Others honored at the ceremonies included Senator
John O. Pastore of Rhode Island; Dr. Constantine D. J.
Generales, professor of space medicine, New York Medi-
cal College; and Burris Jenkins, Jr., editorial cartoonist
for the Hearst Newspapers. They were cited for dis-
tinguished service in the fields of government, space
medicine and journalism respectively.
TESH PUBLISHES GERMFREE BIBLIOGRAPHY
A Bibliography of Germfree Research from 1885
to 1963 has been published by a staff member of Notre
Dame’s Lobund Laboratory. Bernard A. Tesh, assistant
director for germfree production at the famed research
center, has compiled the bibliography which includes
786 titles. Of these, 170 are the work of Notre Dame
scientists.
FOUR ELECTED TO ALUMNI BOARD
Four University of Notre Dame graduates have been
elected to the board of directors of the Notre Dame
Alumni Association, according to Executive Secretary
James E. Armstrong.
Named to three-year terms as directors of the 35,000-
member organization were Dr. Thomas P. Carney, ’37,
vice president for research, development and control of
Eli Lilly Co., Indianapolis, Ind., pharmaceutical house;
Dr. Bertrand D. Coughlin, ’26, St. Louis, Mo., surgeon
and a faculty member at the St. Louis University School
of Medicine; William V. Cuddy, ’52, White Plains, N.Y.,
attorney; and Herbert M. Sampson, ’50, assistant vice
president of the Northern Natural Gas Co., Omaha, Nebr.
The new directors of the Association were elected in
balloting recently completed among Notre Dame alumni
throughout the world. They were installed as members
of the 12-man board when it convened its winter meeting
on the campus January 30.
PROFESSOR ABELL GETS MEDAL
Dr. Aaron I. Abell, professor of History at the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame, received the Centenary Medal of
LaSalle College, Philadelphia, at a dinner in the Sheraton
Hotel there in December.
FROST WINS MOOT COURT COMPETITION
Robert E. Frost, Bellefontaine, Ohio, was adjudged
the winner of the Notre Dame Law School’s 14th annual
Moot Court competition.
Second place went to Michael J. Stepanek of LaPorte,
Ind. Other finalists were Michael B. Ryan, Buffalo, N.Y.,
and James K. Sutherland, Flint, Mich.
Hearing the law students presentations in the hypo-
thetical case were three distinguished members of the
federal judiciary, Chief Judge Elbert Parr Tuttle and
Judge Richard T. Rives, of the U. S. Court of Appeals
for the Fifth Circuit, and Judge Jesse E. Eschbach, of the
U. S. District Court for Northern Indiana, Fort Wayne.
DEATH TAKES FIVE BELOVED PRIESTS
Five priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross, each
associated closely with the University of Notre Dame,
its students, faculty members, alumni and friends, died
during the past few months.
Rev. Frederick M. Gassensmith, C.S.C., veteran pro-
fessor of Mathematics died on Dec. 9 in the Student’s
Infirmary. Rev. James F. McElhone, G.S.C., associate
editor of The Ave Maria and a former Notre Dame
prefect, died on Nov. 22.
In January, Rev. Thomas E. Burke, G.S.G., died at
Holy Gross House, the new Community Infirmary, on
campus. Father Burke was a poet and English teacher
at Notre Dame and his poems were published widely,
including regular appearances in the Chicago Tribune’s
“Wake of the News” column. He always signed his poems
“T.E.B.”
Rev. William F. Minnick, C.S.C., former pastor of
Sacred Heart Church on campus and a long-time chap-
lain for the Holy Cross Sisters at St. Mary’s College,
died on Jan. 11, also in Holy Cross House.
On Feb. 8, Rev. Louis M. Kelley, G.S.C., died in
New Orleans. He was head of Notre Dame’s Theology
department from 1940 to 1945.
LONG GIVES REILLY LECTURES
Dr. Franklin A. Long, vice-president for research and
advanced studies and professor of chemistry at Cornell
University, Ithaca, N.Y., delivered a series of five P. G.
Reilly Lectures at the University of Notre Dame in De-
cember.
(Continued on page 18)
• EDITOR: JOHN H. JANOWSKI
2 NOTRE DAME
NOTRE DAME VOL. 17, No. 1, SPRING, 1964
Published quarterly by the University of Notre
Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second
class matter May 10, 1928, at Post Office at Notre
Dame, Indiana, under the act of August 24, 1912.

/ounoATtorv
giw w urnmsra
DAME
AND YOU
The University of Notre Dame has been awarded a
second $6,000,000 grant by The Ford Foundation pro-
vided the school doubles that amount in gifts and non-
government grants by June 30, 1966.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University presi-
dent, announced the grant as well as the Foundation’s
renewal of Notre Dame participation in its “Special Pro-
gram in Education” for another three years. He said
the grant’s matching gift feature is retroactive to the
successful completion of the school’s greatest fund-
raising effort last year.
Father Hesburgh expressed deep gratitude to the
trustees and officers of The Ford Foundation “for this
reaffirmation of
for confronting
challenge."
Notre Dame
confidence in Notre Dame’s future and
the University with this second great
was one of the first five private univer-
sities selected by The Ford Foundation to take part in
the “Special Program in Education” when it was launched
in September, 1960. Its objective, the Foundation said,
was “to assist institutions in different regions of the
country to reach and sustain a wholly new level of
academic excellence, administrative effectiveness and
financial support."
During the three-year $18,000,000 Challenge Pro-
gram ending June 30, 1963, Notre Dame received a
total of $18,603,157 in gifts and grants from 23,438
donors. Of this, $13,285,520 was in cash, qualifying
the University for the first $6,000,000 Ford Foundation
grant. The unprecedented support included gifts averag-
ing $345 from a record 80% of Notre Dame alumni.
The funds are being used in overall University develop-
ment including construction of the 13-story Notre Dame
Memorial Library, believed to be the largest library
building in the world, which will be formally dedicated
May 7.
FOR NOTRE
The University of Notre Dame has announced a com-
prehensive, $20,000,000 development plan focused on
people and programs and also providing for the con-
struction of three major buildings.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.G., University
president, said the new, national fund-raising effort, to
be known as Challenge II, will have as its theme, “Ex-
tending the Tradition of Great Teaching.” He said 60%
of the funds will be used to initiate new programs of
study and research, further strengthen the faculty and
provide financial assistance for students with the balance
allocated to physical expansion.
Father Hesburgh listed these major objectives of the
two-and-a-half year Challenge II Program, which is a
segment of a ten-year, $66,000,000 development plan
launched in 1958:
$6,500,000—Faculty development and new academic
programs with emphasis on the social
sciences and the humanities;
$5,500,000—Expansion of student aid programs, in-
cluding scholarships, fellowships, loans
and opportunities for campus employ-
ment;
$5,000,000—Construction of an Athletic and Convo-
cation Center with a seating capacity of
10,500 for athletic, academic and civic
events;
$3,000,000—Erection of two residence halls to pro-
vide housing for virtually all Notre
Dame undergraduates.
Notre Dame’s president pointed out that The Ford
Foundation has already pledged $6,000,000, or 30% of
the $20,000,000 overall goal, provided the University
double that amount in cash gifts and grants from its
alumni, friends and other nongovernmental sources by
June 30, 1966.
3
Notre Dame’s Proposed Athletic and Convocation Center
~:aA*<
Rev. John E. Walsh, G.S.C., the University’s vice-
president for Public Relations and Development, said that
the Challenge II program is geared to extend Notre
Dame’s tradition of great teaching “to new generations
and into new fields.” He said the funds it generates will
enable Notre Dame to continue “to develop young men
in mind, body and spirit and, at the same time, through
its research make effective contributions to the solution
of vexing human problems.”
In a move to strengthen its educational programs and
research in the social sciences and humanities, Notre
Dame plans to establish a department of Experimental
Psychology, it was announced. With funds emanating
from Challenge II, the University will also create new
programs in such people-oriented fields as Anthropology,
Demography, Geography and Religious Sociology. Plan-
ning is also under way for area study programs, first for
Latin America and later Africa.
Noting that a university is only as strong as its faculty,
AN ALUMNI BOARD RESOLUTION
Present and former members of the Board of
Directors of the Alumni Association of the University
of Notre Dame have been impressed with the
soundness and the success of the Notre Dame
Foundation since its inception. Alumni participa-
tion in the first 10 years of the Foundation and in
the recently concluded Challenge I program re-
flects the universal alumni endorsement of the Uni-
versity by its outstandingly loyal sons. Therefore
this general Reunion of Board members wishes to
extend to the University and to the Foundation its
confident acceptance of the Challenge II program,
with the assurance that alumni will again spearhead
its success. Further, this group would like to express
alumni appreciation of the Ford Foundation's gen-
erosity in both of the Challenge programs, not only
for the impressive gifts of $12,000,000 involved,
but for the identification of Notre Dame, by these
grants, as one of the great universities of the world
in accomplishment and in vision.
The Public Relations and Development
Committee of the Board of Directors,
Peter J. Kernan, Jr., Vice-President.
Father Walsh said “a very substantial portion” of Chal-
lenge II funds is earmarked for faculty development.
With Notre Dame’s faculty budget increasing tremendous-
ly each year, he said “sustained financial support is vital
if the University is to retain and attract men of achieve-
ment who will be devoted — in scholarship and research,
in classroom and laboratory, in personal attention to
individual students — to extending Notre Dame’s tradi-
tion of great teaching.”
Increased student aid resources are an urgent need,
too, the Notre Dame vice-president said, in this day of
rising educational costs and higher tuition. Notre Dame
is seeking additional funds to create undergraduate
scholarships or grants-in-aid and graduate fellowships.
Funds are needed, too, he explained, to create and ex-
pand University-operated low-interest loan funds for
qualified students requiring financial assistance. Often, he
explained, it is a combination of a scholarship or fellow-
ship, a loan and campus employment which enables a
young man to enroll and remain at Notre Dame.
The Athletic and Convocation Center, replacing a
66-year-old Fieldhouse, will be erected east of Notre
Dame Stadium, Father Walsh said. The 400,000-square-
foot facility will have twin arenas, one for basketball and
assemblies requiring up to 10,500 seats, the other for
fieldhouse activities and exhibitions. He described the
new building as a center for intercollegiate sports — bas-
ketball, track, baseball (indoor practice), fencing, wres-
tling, boxing, et cetera — and a hub for intramural ath-
letic activities. It will provide facilities for indoor stu-
dent athletics, including a skating rink, and will be the
headquarters for the Notre Dame athletic department.
The Center will be used for major University convo-
cations as well as for conventions of academic and reli-
gious organizations and civic events.
The two residence halls for undergraduates will be
erected on the new east mall north of the Notre Dame
Memorial Library, it was announced. These buildings,
coupled with two graduate residence halls soon to be
built, will swell to twenty-one the number of student
halls on the Notre Dame campus. Construction of these
two buildings, Father Walsh said, will make it possible
for most of the 800 undergraduates currently forced to
live off-campus to share fully in the intellectual, spiritual
and social life of the campus.
4 NOTRE DAME
x?

Father
substitute
Hesburgh has asked me to
for him by saying something
about the new Challenge II Program.
I shall do my best, though we all know
that no one can really take his place.
Probably the first thing to note is that
Challenge I Program, which succeeded
so well because of the very great gen-
erosity of the graduates and friends of
Notre Dame, really made it possible for
the University to keep on being what
it has always been, that is a university
in the tradition of which graciousness
and freedom have been central.

It took a great deal of courage to
erect, shortly after the Civil War, when
Catholics were almost always poor, a
great building topped by a golden dome,
to put (in the style of a French chateau)
the first dormitory on any campus under
Catholic auspices, and to bring over a
famous Italian painter to cover the
church with frescos. That was Notre
Dame’s tradition of graciousness in the
making. And freedom? This has always
been the essence of the Notre Dame
community.

In the new Library both find expres-
sion again in the life of our time. This
magnificent building not only symbolizes
freedom to search for truth, which is the
real business of a university, it also con-
tinues the rich Notre Dame tradition of
graciousness. The Library is much
greater than the Administration Build-
ing, but it is really only so in terms of
the University’s growth, its friends and
the more affluent society in which it
lives.
Our new Challenge II Program is, I
think, designed to make Notre Dame
different — that is, not to take anything
from the glory of the past but to reach
out to the future. New sciences, new
arts, new opportunities opened up by
ecumenism, demand novel and extended
research as well as men, doubtless above
all men, who can initiate and direct it.
In this sense, of course, Notre Dame has
been becoming different for some time.
But human history is changing rapidly
and profoundly.
A great Catholic university, while re-
maining true to its own self, must also
meet and anticipate change. From one
point of view we could perhaps say that
Challenge II Program will foster what
is invisible at Notre Dame because it is
of the spirit. But there has been added
something you definitely will be able to
see, namely a new athletic and convo-
cation center.
To make any part of this really pos-
sible, Notre Dame needs you.
—George N. Shuster
Assistant to the President
MADE, AND
APPOINTED
By early fall, the entrance to the University will be
humming with the sounds of new construction. Directly
across from the Morris Inn, the Notre Dame Center for
Continuing Education will soon be a reality. And in the
administrative office of this new building, Dean Thomas
P. Bergin will be hard at work scheduling activities for
this new facility as Notre Dame’s Dean of Continuing
Education.
This look into the future serves as an introduction
to three related stories . . . the acceptance of a grant from
the Kellogg Foundation for the new building, the ap-
pointment of Dean Bergin by Father Hesburgh, and an
interview with Dean Bergin about his plans for Con-
tinuing Education at Notre Dame.
GRANT TOTALS $1,543,000
In December, the University of Notre Dame received
a grant of $1,543,000 from the W. K. Kellogg Founda-
tion, Battle Creek, Mich., for the construction and opera-
tion of a Center for Continuing Education.
Announcement of the grant and the plans for the
new adult education facility was made jointly by Dr.
Emery W. Morris, president and general director of the
philanthropic organization, and Rev. Theodore M. Hes-
burgh, C.S.C., University president.
Of the grant funds, $1,343,000 will erect and fur-
nish the new Notre Dame building, and the remaining
$200,000 will subsidize the first four years of the Cen-
ter’s program.
Father Hesburgh, in expressing Notre Dame’s grati-
tude to the trustees and officers of the Kellogg Founda-
tion, said the adult education facility “provides an ex-
citing new dimension for the University’s educational
resources. It will,” he said, “greatly facilitate Notre
Dame’s growth in quality and educational leadership
and make its resources more available to greater num-
bers of persons.”
Notre Dame was chosen as the site for the new Center,
a Kellogg Foundation spokesman said, “because of its
previous intensive interest in adult education, because
it is national in character, drawing students from all over
the United States, and because of its international repu-
tation as a cultural center.”
Since 1951, the Kellogg Foundation has given ap-
pioximately $12,000,000 to help establish six other Cen-
ters of Continuing Education at Michigan State Uni-
versity, at the Universities of Georgia, Nebraska, Okla-
homa, and Chicago, and at Oxford University, England.
The Center most recently completed, that at Chicago,
was opened early in 1963, while the Oxford Center will
begin operations this year. Construction is expected to
begin on the Notre Dame facility in the early fall of this
vear.
Notre Dame’s Center for Continuing Education will
serve a number of the University’s constituencies. Among
these would be scholars and others participating in aca-
demic and cultural conferences; alumni enrolled in con-
tinuing education programs, businessmen, professional
people, tradesmen and others participating in specialized
programs; and friends of the University, parents of stu-
dents and visitors.
The new facility will be a buff brick, two-story build-
ing of contemporary design. Its major components will
include a lobby and registration area, an auditorium
seating 350 to 400 people, a series of seminar, conference
or meeting rooms, a library and exhibition area, audio-
visual facilities, limited food service, offices and quarters
for visiting professors and research personnel.
BERGIN NAMED DEAN
Soon after the building plans were announced, Dr.
Thomas P. Bergin was named to the newly created post
of Dean of Continuing Education at Notre Dame.
Father Hesburgh, who made the appointment, said
Dr. Bergin will organize and direct the program of the
new Center for Continuing Education, to be erected at
the entrance to the campus.
Dean Bergin, a native of Watertown, N. Y., and a
Notre Dame faculty member since 1947, has been serving
as Jesse Jones Professor of Business Administration and
6 NOTRE DAME
Center. Area 2 shows where the Athletic and Convocation Center will be built.
head of the department of business organization and
management. He assumed his new duties February 1.
Father Hesbuurgh said the Center for Continuing
Education, to be erected within the next eighteen months,
“will add an important new dimension to the University’s
total educational work.” It is being planned, he said, to
accommodate a wide range of meetings of various sizes,
conferences of learned societies, and academic functions
of every sort. The Center is also expected to develop a
continuing education program for Notre Dame’s growing
body of alumni.
Bergin has conducted extensive industrial develop-
ment research, particularly in the southern states, and
has been serving as a consultant to the Office of Plan-
ning and Research in the Area Redevelopment Adminis-
tration of the U. S. Department of Commerce. A 1945
Notre Dame graduate, he holds a master’s degree from
the University of Vermont and a doctorate from Syra-
cuse University.
The New Dean's Outlook ...
We asked Dean Thomas P. Bergin to comment on
Notre Dame's Continuing Education Center and his role
as administrator of this new program and new building.
His answers to specific questions appear below. In fu-
ture issues, Dean Bergin will join the other academic
deans on the “Dean's Outlook" section of this magazine.
—Editor
Q.: As Dean of this new academic area of the Uni-
versity, how would you explain the goals of the project?
Our paramount objective, is to have this new Center
become a living, vital and effective connection between
the work of the University and the world about it.
The work of the Center will be focused upon providing
new emphasis on the important knowledge currently
emerging in so many specific areas of study. It can be
a window on the world, providing as it will not only
new vistas for the academic community at Notre Dame
but also opportunities for extending knowledge through-
out the nation and the world.
Q.: What types of programs will be offered at the
Continuing Education Center?
We hope to have a great variety of programs. Con-
ferences which will have as their main theme the prob-
lems of mankind throughout the world — ranging
from problems of mental health or birth control to
problems of cancer research in a germ-free environment
or the philosophy of science. To these conferences or
symposia we would expect to attract the most distin-
guished men in the field and then provide for the dis-
semination of this type of information and study.
7
8 NOTRE DAME
We expect to schedule meetings of the
many existing scholarly organizations rep-
resenting the various academic disciplines.
In addition to these traditional or estab-
lished associations, we hope to provide the
opportunities which may bring about new
associations and new syntheses — attract-
ing individuals as well as groups.
Q.: Will there be opportunities for
alumni programs?
By all means! As a matter of fact this
is one of the very specific areas in which
we hope to do a great deal. More and
more our Alumni are becoming keenly
interested in continuing their education.
It is most important that we project and
fulfill this important need. As a matter of
fact, I would welcome the suggestions and
recommendations from our alumni as to
how we might best implement this pro-
gram.
Q.: Will current members of the faculty
be participating in the programs of the
Center?
Surely, the stature and reputation of so
many of our faculty members here at
Notre Dame will make it essential that
they be involved in the programs. They
will necessarily be a part of and instru-
mental in attracting the scholars and or-
ganizations which will make this a truly
sophisticated operation.
Q.: How will N.D.’s Continuing Educa-
tion Center differ from similar operations
on other campuses?
Well, first of all, we will not have any
extension work, nor will we have the typi-
cal type of adult education program where
one works for academic credit.
One rather different aspect of Notre
Dame’s program is that we will conduct
an internship program wherein we will
train, let us say for six months at a time,
two or three individuals who are prepar-
ing to work in continuing education
centers. We have already made some pre-
liminary arrangements for this type of
program with the University of Chicago.
In addition to this we want to explore
and anticipate some of the emerging tech-
nical advances being made in such areas
as simultaneous language translations,
closed circuit television and the like.
Q.: In what way will this Center assist
the local community?
I would hope that there will be many
areas in which we will be able to assist the
local community. Surely, the existence of
the Center itself will be an immense con-
tribution to the community — culturally
and economically. We will be anxious to
accommodate those activities which con-
tribute to the community’s welfare and
are in keeping with the over-all objectives
of the Center. I intend to work on this
very earnestly as I feel it is particularly
important.
Q.: Finally, Dr. Bergin, as a teacher,
and as one of considerable reputation at
Notre Dame, what is your personal re-
action to this new position?
Although after some eighteen years it
is not easy to leave the tremendous, im-
mediate rewards of the classroom and the
close association I’ve had with the Notre
Dame students. I do feel the long-range
implications and significant contributions
that this new Center can provide for all
those associated with Notre Dame does
compensate in some measure and repre-
sents a truly great challenge.
Tom Bergin
■y---------“STWT"
A Course In Practical Politics
by Paul C. Bartholomew
The quadrennial campus extravaganza — the mock
national political convention — is once more with us.
This event has become something of a Notre Dame
campus tradition. It combines the features of the aca-
demic, the extracurricular, and the social to make a
unique, valuable, and interesting contribution to student
life. Over the years dissenting voices have been raised,
but none has challenged the value of and the interest
generated by this activity. The convention has been ac-
cused of involving much labor (it does), of costing
money (it does), and of disrupting the routine of campus
life (it does), but no one has said that it does not offer
students an unrivaled opportunity to learn by doing one
segment of the game of politics, and this in an atmosphere
where the mock becomes real, the “make believe” dead-
ly serious, and the whole an educational experience that
most students will never again have an opportunity to
gain.


j^ARRvebi^^
WILLIAM SCRANTON
MARGARETCHASEjMlTH I-'
HAROLD	—-I
w

Today many colleges and universities hold mock
national conventions, but the Notre Dame convention
takes its place as one of the oldest. It began in 1940
as a feature of American Government classes in the
Department of Political Science. The first was held in
the auditorium of the Engineering Building. By com-
parison with later conventions, this was a minor pro-
duction, but the relative enthusiasm of that first meet-
ing has never been exceeded. In 1944, when World War
II had taken most of the students from the campus and
left Navy personnel in their stead, the convention was not
held. However, it was reinstated in 1948 and the entire
University was invited to join in the first “big” conven-
tion; this time in the Navy Drill Hall. The response was
tremendous. Students entered wholeheartedly into the
spirit of the thing. Chemistry, physics, and accounting
majors (as well as political science majors) who pre-
viously had only read of such things as caucuses and
roll calls found themselves an integral part of the proc-
ess. It was a huge success by any proper standards.
When 1952 rolled around, the St. Mary’s girls were
invited to join, and the convention took on another aspect
— the year’s biggest “mixer.” The girls have been a regu-
lar part of the “big show” ever since. The year 1952
also saw the convention attract national attention, and
prominent speakers began to appear before the meet-
ings. Radio commentator Paul Harvey, then National
Democratic Chairman Paul Butler, Mayor Richard Daley,
and various members of Congress are among those who
have addressed the convention. At the 1960 convention
the keynote speaker was Senator Frank Church, the
man who two months later was to fill the same role
at the Democratic national convention (which chose
the same nominee for President as did the campus
meeting).
The mock conventions have alternated between
Democratic and Republican meetings with the determin-
ing factor being the practical situation existing at the
time. The 1940 convention was Democratic because
the burning issue was the matter of a third term for
Franklin Roosevelt. As noted, no meeting was held in
1944, and then in 1948 a Republican meeting was held
when Truman was the sure Democratic nominee, and this
was repeated in 1952 in the midst of the bitter Taft-
Eisenhower fight and the near certainty of the Stevenson
nomination. The 1956 meeting was Democratic because
Eisenhower was certain of the Republican nomination,
and the 1960 meeting was also Democratic in the light
10 NOTRE DAME
of the impending fight over Kennedy.
Beginning with the 1948 meeting the Academy of
Political Science, the campus student organization of
political science majors, has been the sponsor of the
mock convention. Members of the Academy serve as
a national party committee and perform the functions
that such a committee carries out in the real-life drama
of the regular conventions. This involves all of the pre-
liminary arrangements, a truly tremendous and time-con-
suming job ranging all the way from securing the hall
to registering delegates and selecting the keynote speaker.
This year’s meeting is being held in the new Stepan
Center.
The cosmopolitan makeup of the student body at
Notre Dame, with men from all over the Union, gives
a note of realism that is not present in many other uni-
versity mock conventions. Here the students can repre-
sent their home states and give expression to the senti-
ment prevalent there. This may account in part at least
for the accuracy of the choices of this meeting. The
convention has failed only once to name the ultimate
nominee of the party, that in 1948 when the Notre Dame
meeting named Vandenberg while the Republicans chose
Dewey.
Students Select Lodge and Hatfield At
ND's 1964 Republican Mock Convention
The 1964 Republican Mock Convention on the Notre
Dame campus adjourned at 9:35 p.m. on March 5 and
to all observers set a record for attendance, interest and
enthusiasm.
After seven ballots, the Notre Dame and St. Mary’s
College delegates nominated United States ambassador
to Viet Nam, Henry Cabot Lodge, as the G.O.P. presi-
dential hopeful. The following day, Governor Mark O.
Hatfield of Oregon was named as Lodge’s running mate
on the second vice-presidential ballot.
Early in the convention, observers predicted a three-
way battle for the nomination between Arizona’s Senator
Barry M. Goldwater, Pennsylvania’s Governor William
F. Scranton, and Lodge. They were right. After the third
ballot, Lodge took the lead and continued to increase
it on subsequent ballots.
After the seventh ballot, Ambassador Lodge had 699
votes, Scranton was second and Goldwater third. A total
of 655 votes was needed to nominate.
Looking back on this year’s convention, congratula-
tions are certainly in order for all the officials and all
11
the participants. Especially interesting were the talks dur-
ing the convention by Republican National Chairman
William E. Miller, a 1935 graduate of Notre Dame,
Senator Leverett Saltonstall of Massachusetts, and Con-
gressman Donald C. Bruce of Indiana.
Under the veteran advisorship of Dr. Paul G. Bar-
tholomew, professor of political science at the University
and founder of the Mock Conventions at Notre Dame,
the following students played important roles in the con-
vention’s success: Thomas E. Woods, National Chair-
man; Michael R. Dillon, Permanent Chairman; Eugene
F. McGuire, Temporary Chairman; Joseph L. Mc-
Carthy, Student Keynote Speaker; Kathleen Hubbard,
Secretary; Robert E. Engler, Parliamentarian; James
C. McGrath, House Facilities; John R. Sheets, Chief
Reading Clerk; and Thomas H. LaHaie, Credentials.
And with this year’s convention out of the way, many
freshmen are already looking forward to 1968. That’s
the way a Mock Convention impresses you at Notre
Dame.
Third Theology Colloquium Held
Twenty-five Catholic and Protestant scholars con-
vened at the University of Notre Dame in January for
three days of ecumenical discussions on the general
subject of “Scripture and the Church.”
The Notre Dame Colloquium, which was sponsored
by the University’s Theology Department, is the third
of its kind to be held on the campus. Similar Catholic-
Protestant dialogues were held at Notre Dame in Octo-
ber of 1961 and 1962 on “The Theological Notion of
Authority” and “The Concept of the Church as the
Body of Christ.”
Six members of the Colloquium prepared papers
which were discussed during the sessions. “Scripture and
Tradition” was the subject of Rev. George Tavard,
A. A., of Mount Mercy College, Pittsburgh, Pa., and
Dr. James Barr of the Princeton (N. J.) Theological
Seminary.
Rev. John Courtney Murray, S.J., of Woodstock
College, Maryland, and Dr. James Robinson, of the
Southern California School of Theology, Claremont,
spoke on “Scripture and Theological Method.”
“Scripture and Worship” was the subject of a third
set of papers presented by Rev. Marie-Gantius Matura,
O.F.M., Montreal, and Dr. Heiko A. Oberman of the
Harvard Divinity School.
Rev. Albert Schlitzer, G.S.C., professor of Theology
at Notre Dame, was acting chairman of this year’s Col-
loquium. The sessions, which were held at The Morris
Inn on the campus, were open to members of the Col-
loquium only.
Officials Get New Appointments
New appointments involving seven University of Notre
Dame officials have been announced by Rev. Chester A.
Soleta, C.S.C., vice president for academic affairs.
Rev. Joseph Hoffman, C.S.C., has been named acting
director of admissions, taking over the duties of Rev.
James Moran, C.S.C., who is recuperating from surgery.
Father Moran has been the University’s director of admis-
sions and scholarships since 1958.
Rev. Daniel O’Neil, C.S.C., who has been an assist-
ant dean of freshmen, succeeds Father Hoffman as as-
sistant vice president for student affairs.
Rev. Roman Ladewski, C.S.C., who has been teaching
theology and serving as assistant director of scholar-
ships and secretary of the Scholarship Committee, be-
comes assistant freshman dean replacing Father O’Neil.
Brother Lawrence Carter, G.S.G., who has been in
charge of the student loan fund, has been assigned ad-
ditional duties as executive secretary of the Scholarship
Committee.
Father Soleta also announced that Rev. Robert W.
Woodward, C.S.C., has relinquished his duties as the
University’s director of military affairs, a post he has
held since 1947. Prof. Devere Plunkett, assistant dean
of the College of Arts and Letters, will take over Father
Woodward’s military liaison work in addition to his work
in the Liberal Arts School.
German Ambassador Speaks
K. Heinrich Knappstein (left), German ambassador
to the United States, holds a news conference during
a visit to the University of Notre Dame March 2.
Knappstein later gave a public lecture on “Germany's
Role in the Free World.” Shown with him here is Prof.
Stephen Kertesz (right), head of the University’s Com-
mittee on International Relations which sponsored his talk.
12
NOTRE DAME
MEMORIAL LIBRARY MURAL TAKES FORM FOR MAY 7 DEDICATION
Officials of the University of Notre Dame, Ellerbe Architects, St. Paul, Minn., and the Cold Spring (Minn.)
Granite Co., are dwarfed by the upper portion of the granite mural now being installed on the facade of the
Notre Dame Memorial Library. The mural, designed by Millard Sheets, Claremont, Calif., is 132 feet high by 65
feet wide, about six times the size of the portion seen here.
CULTURAL STUDY OF YOUTH TO BEGIN
A Cross-Cultural Study of Youth will be conducted
in three neighborhoods in New York City, Chicago and
Washington, D.C., under the auspices of the University
of Notre Dame and with the support of a $120,000 grant
from The Lavanburg Foundation.
Dr. George N. Shuster, assistant to the president of
Notre Dame, is chairman of the advisory committee for
the study. Its director, he said, is Dr. Bernard Lander,
associate professor of Sociology at Hunter College in New
York. Lander is the author of the study, Towards an
Understanding of Juvenile Delinquency, which attracted
considerable attention when published in 1954.
According to Lander, “the areas of disarray and dis-
content in American society are expanding” despite un-
paralleled prosperity and the increasing availability of a
wide spectrum of social services. “The alarming increase
in the volume and seriousness of juvenile delinquency,
youth and adult crime,” he believes, “is a striking symbol
of what can only be described as profound social malaise.”
Lander cited The Baltimore Study in 1950 which
suggested that these social problems reflect the deteriora-
tion of our moral code and the failure of the community,
the family, the school and the church to act as effective
transmission agencies for the moral values of the larger
society.
UNION-MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE
Participants in the University of Notre Dame’s
twelfth annual Union-Management Conference Feb. 28
included (left to right) Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C.,
founder and director of the event; Emil Mazey, secretary-
treasurer of the United Automobile Workers of America,
who addressed the conference; Gerard Balsley, vice
president-industrial relations, Kaiser Steel Corp., another
speaker; and Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., vice presi-
dent for academic affairs.
13
“ . . . the pursuit
of excellence . . . ”
&&TU»9X

Graduate School
Father Paul E. Beichner, Dean, re-
turned to the Graduate School in Febru-
ary after having been on leave during
the fall semester to continue his research
on medieval literature.
At the end of the first semester 20 stu-
dents had completed the requirements
for the doctor’s degree and 29 for the
master’s.
Departments in the graduate school
continue to increase the amount of out-
side aid received for fellowships and
scholarships. A total of ten additional
NDEA fellowships were granted to the
departments of Chemical Engineering,
Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engi-
neering and Government and Interna-
tional Studies. The latter department re-
ceived fellowships to help continue its pro-
gram of Soviet and East European Studies
and to initiate its Latin American Area
Program.
Notre Dame has been awarded an ad-
ditional 8 NASA Traineeships for stu-
dents in the space sciences and engineer-
ing. These are in addition to the 8 trainee-
ships that became effective in 1963. Both
the NDEA and NASA awards are for a
period of three years each and are de-
signed to ease a student’s financial wor-
ries and allow him to complete his doc-
torate in a reasonable amount of time.
Awards such as these when used in con-
junction with Notre Dame’s faculty and
facilities tend to attract better students
each year. The results of the competition
for the NSF fellowships have not been
announced.
Law School
Mr. Justice Arthur Goldberg of the
Supreme Court of the United States will
preside over the final argument in the
annual Moot Court Competition next fall.
He will be the seventh of the present
members of the Supreme Court to serve
in that capacity.
Judge Walter E. Craig of Phoenix,
Arizona, President of the American Bar
Association, will be the featured speaker
at the annual Law Honors Banquet on
April 28. Judge Craig’s visit will mark
the seventh consecutive year in which the
Law Honors Banquet has been addressed
by the President of the American Bar
Association.
Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C.
Graduate School
Joseph O’Meara, Jr.
Law School
Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C.
College of Arts and Letters
Thomas T. Murphy
College of Business Administration
Each year for some years there has been
a symposium at The Law School dealing
with a highly controversial problem of
urgent national concern. This year the
symposium, which was held on February
29, dealt with the amendments to the
Federal Constitution proposed by the
Council of State Governments. The fol-
lowing participated:
Professor Carl A. Auerbach of the
University of Minnesota Law School
Professor Arthur E. Bonfield of the
University of Iowa College of Law
Mr. Albert E. Jenner, Jr. of the Chi-
cago bar
Professor Philip B. Kurland of the
University of Chicago Law School
Professor Paul Oberst of the University
of Kentucky College of Law
The annual meeting of the Editorial
Board of the Natural Law Institute has
been scheduled for October 31. In con-
nection with the meeting a series of lec-
tures will be delivered by Professor David
Daube, Regius Professor of Roman and
Civil Law at Oxford University in Eng-
land.
A luncheon meeting of the Notre Dame
Law Association is planned in connection
with the annual meeting of the American
Bar Association in New York next August.
Dean O’Meara will address the meeting.
The need for scholarships and loans is
great and growing. But scholarships and
loans are not enough; something more is
urgently needed. The wives of married
law students possess a variety of skills
which would go a long way toward solv-
ing their financial problems if arrange-
ments could be made for the proper care
of their children during working hours.
In short, there is desperate need for a
day nursery on or near the campus. When
it is established, many law students who
now are dependent on scholarships or
have to borrow against their future earn-
ings (or both) will be able to support
themselves, with the help of their wives,
and that, after all, is the best way.
College of Arts and Letters
The College of Arts and Letters, its
faculty and students, have such a large
stake in the new Memorial Library at
Notre Dame that they are eagerly await-
ing its dedication activities in the week
of May 4-8, 1964. The administration
14
NOTRE DAME
and faculty of the College are planning
symposia of a quality that properly fit this
magnificent occasion.
Julius W. Pratt, leading American his-
torian of the diplomatic field, will be a
visiting lecturer throughout the spring se-
mester, and will offer to our undergrad-
uates and graduate students a course in
diplomatic history of the U.S. in the
twentieth century.
Dr. Julian Samora of the Sociology De-
partment will be back from a semester’s
research project in Colombia, South
America, and will resume his duties as
head of the department.
In June, 1964, the College will award
about 525 AB degrees to its seniors. This
number is almost the exact size of this
class which began its freshman year in
September, 1960. A few changes have oc-
curred through intercollege transfers and
withdrawals, but the College is moving
steadily toward the ideal of qualifying
for a degree the entire class it admits as
freshmen.
College of Business Administration
The College of Business Administration
is giving major attention this academic
year to two issues of significance to the
future strength of the College. The first
is the international dimension of business.
In its fall, 1963, meetings, the Advisory
Council of the College of Business Ad-
ministration discussed the policy aspects
of the problem. Currently, a Task Force,
headed by Professor Yusaku Furuhashi, is
exploring ways to improve student under-
standing of the cultural, political, and eco-
nomic environment and problems facing
the present-day multi-national corpora-
tion. The exploration has included partici-
pation in various symposia during the fall
and winter by Task Force members,
analysis of offerings both at the graduate
and undergraduate levels in other univer-
sities, appointment of Dean Murphy to a
U. S. Department of Commerce South
American Trade Mission in March, 1964,
and planned participation in a 1964 Sum-
mer Workshop in New York by a Task
Force member. Prospects include the
possibility of a basic course in Internation-
al Business for all students as well as an
option for students whose career interests
are in the International Business area.
The second problem under study con-
cerns the growing use of quantitative
analysis in the solution of business prob-
lems. In recognition of the rapid growth
of quantitative theory in business, the Col-
lege is reviewing all aspects of student
problems in the areas of Mathematics,
Norman R. Gay
College of Engineering
Frederick D. Rossini
College of Science
William M. Burke
Freshman Year of Studies
CREDITS
Most of the photos
appearing in this issue
are the work of M.
Bruce Harlan, Univer-
sity Photographer.
The cover art was
executed by Edward
E. Herrmann.
Inside layout and
art work by Alden C.
Balmer.
Statistics, Data Processing, Operations
Analysis, Computer Technology, and
Decision Theory and Simulation. The
objective is the updating, strengthening,
and coordinating of quantitative theory
in all departments of the College.
On February 1, 1964, Dr. Salvatore J.
Bella assumed his new duties as head of
the Business Organization and Manage-
ment Department. He succeeded Professor
Thomas P. Bergin who was appointed
Dean of the new Center for Continuing
Education.
College of Engineering
Three new faculty members are joining
the staff of the College of Engineering for
the spring semester. They are Professor
Brian Crumlish in the Department of
Architecture, Dr. Stuart T. McComas in
the Department of Mechanical Engineer-
ing and Dr. Darrell D. Penrod in the
Department of Engineering Science. Pro-
fessor Crumlish held LeBrun and Ful-
bright fellowships and has worked in the
areas of Architectural Design and City
Planning. Dr. McComas received his doc-
torate degree at the University of Minne-
sota and is a specialist in the area of heat
transfer. Dr. Penrod comes to us from
the University of Illinois where he special-
ized in the areas of elasticity and vibra-
tions.
The third floor of the Cushing Hall of
Engineering has been completely reno-
vated to provide for faculty offices, grad-
uate student study areas, and well-lighted
and equipped design and seminar rooms,
thereby affording maximum utilization of
the space available. Modifications were
made to the space used by Civil Engi-
neering to provide added laboratory areas
devoted to environmental health studies
and to provide study areas for then-
graduate students.
During the Fall semester, a very suc-
cessful series of open houses were con-
ducted by the several departments in or-
der to provide information and orienta-
tion for the freshmen who had expressed
an intent to major in one of the depart-
ments of the college next year. Both
faculty and upper-class students co-
operated in the planning and execution
of this program.
Graduate work is beginning to flourish
in the College, and we now have approxi-
mately 40 students enrolled for the Ph.D.
degree as compared to six such students
two years ago. The College has sponsored
summer institutes for college teachers of
engineering in the fields of mechanics of
structures and automatic-control systems,
and next summer an institute will be held
15
“ . . . the pursuit
of excellence . . . ”
DEANS’ MHU9&X..,
on the science of nonmetallic engineering
materials.
College of Science
The College of Science is continuing its
efforts to build its faculty and its stu-
dents to higher and higher levels of
quality, and to support these with ade-
quate facilities, all this to do the best
possible overall job in carrying out the
principal mission of the University —
education.
In the three years, 1961, 1962, and
1963, eighteen seniors majoring in science
at Notre Dame received awards of Na-
tional Science Foundation Predoctoral
Graduate Fellowships for beginning grad-
uate study. Since there were only about
150 seniors graduated with majors in
science in these three years, this means
that, on the average, one in each nine
seniors received these coveted awards
— a truly remarkable record, attesting
high intellectual quality in science.
For the current academic year, we were
joined by the following new members of
the faculty in the College of Science:
Assistant Professor Earl J. Savage in the
Department of Biology; Assistant Profes-
sor Oliver G. Ludwig in the Department
of Chemistry; Assistant Professors Robert
E. Clay, Kenneth L. Grant, Norbert
Kuhlmann, Carl R. Riehm, and Kenneth
W. Weston, Associate Professors Abra-
ham Goetz, Barth Pollak, and Vladeta
Vuckovic, and Professor Karl Nickel, in
the Department of Mathematics; In-
structor Joseph Kahane, Assistant Profes-
sors Paul R. Chagnon, Paul C. DeCelles,
Ivan Derado, Gerald L. Jones, William
D. Shephard, and How-sen Wong, and
Associate Professor V. Paul Kenney, in
the Department of Physics.
For the current academic year, Dr.
Louis Pierce, Professor of Chemistry, is
serving as Acting Director of our Uni-
versity Computing Center, while Dr. Hans
J. Zassenhaus is serving as Distinguished
Professor of Mathematics at the Ohio
State University.
The College of Science was fortunate to
obtain enlarged building facilities. The
Department of Mathematics moved in
January, 1963, from its quarters in Nieuw-
land Science Hall, cramped between the
Department of Chemistry and the Depart-
ment of Physics, into elegant new quarters,
comprising the upper two floors of the
new four-story Computing Center and
Mathematics Building, dedicated on May
10, 1963, including a Research Library for Mathematics and Computing
Science, a Faculty Room, Seminar Rooms, and many Offices. In April,
1963, the Radiation Laboratory moved from its old quarters in Chemistry
Hall into the new Radiation Research Building, provided by the United
States Atomic Energy Commission, and dedicated September 1, 1963.
The quality of the scientific work in mathematics at Notre Dame was
recognized by the National Science Foundation in its award of $215,000
toward the cost of the new research facilities in mathematics, and, similarly,
the excellence of the scientific work in the Lobund Laboratory was recog-
nized by the National Science Foundation in its award of $616,000 toward
the cost of new research quarters for the Lobund Laboratory.
Current building plans for science at Notre Dame include a Life Sci-
ence Building (to house the Department of Biology with the Lobund
Laboratory), rehabilitation of Chemistry Hall for the Department of
Chemistry, and a proposed new Tandem Van de Graaff Accelerator for
the Department of Physics.
Freshman Year of Studies
We have just received the first semester grades for our present Fresh-
man Class and, quite naturally, our immediate concern was to determine
how this present class compared grade-wise to last year’s group. The in-
formation we were able to obtain might be of interest to you.
Approximately 1,479 students entered the Freshman Year of Studies
Program in September, 1962. At the end of the first semester 143 students
were on probation. This number broke down into the following two cate-
gories. 120 students were placed on probation for failing to pass two-thirds
of their work even though their overall average was above 1.5.
The total number of Dean’s Honor List students—4.5 or above—num-
bered 105 students. These grade averages, of course, were based on the
“0” to “6” marking system.
As you probably know, the Academic Council approved a new marking
system which went into effect this fall. Instead of the “0” to “6” scale,
the present system is a “0” to “4” scale. All of the deans held meetings
during the fall with their individual faculties and this new grade system
was discussed at these meetings, and again on numerous occasions on the
department level. Naturally, all of us were quite anxious to study the first
semester grade reports.
This fall 1,520 students were admitted to the Freshman Year of Studies
Program. We discovered that 149 are on probation. This breaks down in
the following manner: 131 students fall below our 1.3 required first se-
mester average, and 18 failed to pass two-thirds of their work. Roughly
this is approximately the same percentage of students on probation as were
on a year ago.
What was most pleasing to the Freshman Office was the fact that this
semester’s Dean’s Honor List — 3.25 or above — numbered 146 students.
This is an increase of 41 honor students over the same period a year ago.
You might also be interested to know, that toward the end of March,
the students selected for the Innsbruck Program will be announced. The
selection of this group will be a Committee selection, and this Committee
will receive recommendations from the professors of these candidates, the
hall rectors, the Freshman Office and their German professors. In all like-
lihood, the Committee may have to resort to personal interviews, because,
at this moment, there are approximately 120 candidates for 55 acceptances
and 6 alternate positions.
I realize that most of this information is statistical in nature; however,
I did want you to be aware of these facts, since they do tell rather ob-
jectively a certain phase of our Freshman Program.
16
NOTRE DAME
NOTRE DAME —AN APPRECIATION
Am
Dame. As I set out from New York the car turns west
and the route leads fast across the toll roads to the twin
of ideas.
For a number of summers I have taught at Notre
beacons of the Golden Dome and the Library — a com-
bining of the traditional with a modem massive mental
storehouse. Off the toll road, past St. Mary’s, then the
golf course, down Angela Boulevard, a smile at Frankie s,
the long avenue of trees, and once more you know that
you can go home again.
There is only one entrance but there are a thousand
ways to discover Notre Dame. My discoveries during the
mid-western summers have become memories deep etched
with green and gold.
Let me say first what I have not discovered but what
I know to be so, and that is that there are blemishes and
imperfections. The low flash point of the blood and
mind of the students who are at the brim of life and the
thin cool blood of faculty or administration when they
speak idealism but live the market place, both are some
time faultlines in the likeness of the University. I men-
tion these things for there are humans at Notre Dame
and there is not perfection, and what with one thing and
another I’m glad of that. But I do not wish my appre-
ciation to be discounted from the view that it is without
balance and sentimental. It is just that on balance Notre
Dame is so great.
There is goodness and grace. Goodness is an old-
fashioned word and grace has almost disappeared from
the layman’s lexicon. Yet grace means a condition of
being in God’s favor, a virtue and excellence, and there
is goodness and grace at Notre Dame. It is a component,
almost tangible, in the air and I know not how it would
be possible to walk the campus without feeling its effect.
There is a desire for learning. For some it is clearly
because so much needs to be learned, but no matter, it
is one of the high victories to see a class, day after day,
excited and eager to commence anew the consideration
There is beauty, for the physical campus has been
built to match the majesty of the intellectual goals.
There is diversity, and those who may still view the
Church as drawing inward, do not understand, as it is
understood at Notre Dame, that talent and intellect are
gifts to be developed to the fullest and so will lead to a
host of different hilltops from which to view the horizon
and the sunlight.
There is a sense of identity and belonging, and m the
midst of a great “Multiversity” that engages in a pro-
liferating variety of disparate, sometimes almost desperate
activities, undergraduates, sisters, priests and brothers,
lay faculty and graduate students all share a sense of
community and communication.
There are also single picture memories: the church
tower that soars on a moonlight night, the colors reflected
in the lake from Moreau Chapel on a misty night, and
the hooded figures, or a young giant of an athlete, out-
lined by flickering candles at the Grotto in the quiet of
the night. There are sisters being delighted by little things
— serene serendipity; there is the afternoon sun and water
seminar at St. Joseph’s lake; there are colleagues who
flash with ideas and insight and who “lay on MacDuff”
and brighten with good spirit at a stout adversary; and
there are “townies” who count the University as their
school and who open their homes and give of their friend-
ship so that Notre Dame is truly a part of the community,
as it is a part of many another community throughout the
will
are
world, and as it always
community where there
Notre Dame.
{The foregoing essay
be a part of whatever the
those who have been at
was
written by Dr. Michael O.
Sawyer, of Syracuse University, who has been a visiting
professor at Notre Dame for several summer sessions.)


GLENN NAMED 'PATRIOT OF YEAR'
Astronaut John R. Glenn, Jr., (right) accepts the
11th annual Patriotism Award of the University of Notre
Dame senior class from class president Bruce Tuthill
(left). New London, Conn. Glenn, who was cited as
“one of the intrepid voyagers of the ages,” was honored
and delivered an address at traditional Washington’s
Birthday Exercises (Feb. 24) in the Stepan Center
on the campus.
NOTRE DAME NEWS
(Continued from page 2)
CREDIT UNION ASSETS RISE
Total assets and shareholdings of the University of
Notre Dame Federal Credit Union increased 40% during
the past year, it was reported at the organization’s 21st
annual meeting recently.
Prof. John T. Croteau, credit union president, said
assets as of December 31, 1963, totaled $1,215,000. Net
earnings increased 33% during the year, he said, and
dividends of $43,000 at the rate of 4.8% were declared.
Loans totaling $1,248,000 were granted during 1963.
TUITION COSTS GO UP
The University of Notie Dame will raise under-
graduate tuition 50 dollars per semester effective next
September.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University
president, said continually rising educational costs have
forced Notre Dame to set its undergraduate tuition at
$1,400 for the 1964-65 school year. Tuition for graduate
students and law students will remain unchanged at
$1,000 per year, he said.
CANON GABRIEL GIVES ADDRESS
Rev. A. L. Gabriel, director of the Mediaeval Insti-
tute at the University of Notre Dame, delivered the din-
ner address of the Mediaeval Academy of America in
December during the annual meeting of the American
Historical Association in Philadelphia.
COLOMBIAN EDUCATORS VISIT CAMPUS
Six engineering educators from Colombia studied
educational methods in the University of Notre Dame’s
College of Engineering recently.
The visitors, all faculty members at the Universidad
del Valle, are also observing facihties and teaching meth-
ods at Cornell University and the Carnegie Institute of
Technology as part of a program sponsored by The Ford
Foundation.
KENNEDY CONDUCTS SEMINAR
Dr. John J. Kennedy, head of the department of
Marketing Management at Notre Dame, was invited
by the Department of Defense to conduct a seminar for
senior officers serving as project managers for missile,
rocket and electronic systems.
POWELL DELIVERS LECTURES
Dr. Ray M. Powell, head of the department of Ac-
countancy at the University of Notre Dame, delivered
two addresses in Jackson, Miss., recently.
Powell, who is national chairman of the Accounting
Careers Council, addressed the Jackson chapter of the
National Accounting Association, giving a progress re-
port on the Council’s program to improve the quality
of students majoring in accounting and spoke at St.
Dominic’s Memorial Hospital on “Manager Development
in the Religious Institution.”
FATHER HESBURGH NAMED TRUSTEE
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of
the University of Notre Dame, was recently elected a
trustee of the Teachers Insurance and Annuity Associa-
tion and the College Retirement Equities Fund.
ESTABLISH FOUR JOURNALISM SCHOLARSHIPS
Four journalism scholarships at Notre Dame, valued
at up to $1,000 a year, were announced recently by Pro-
fessor Thomas J. Stritch, head of the department of
Communication Arts.
Open to freshmen beginning in September of this
year, the scholarships are named for the four Midwest
newspapers which established them — The South Bend
Tribune, the Lafayette (Ind.) Journal and Courier, the
Marion (Ind.) Leader-Tribune and Chronicle, and Chi-
cago’s American.
PUBLISH TWO NEW BOOKS BY FACULTY MEMBERS
Jacques Maritain, The Man and His Achievement,
recently published by Sheed and Ward contains contri-
butions from 13 scholars about the contemporary phi-
losopher edited by Dr. Joseph W. Evans, associate pro-
fessor of Philosophy and director of the Jacques Maritain
Center at Notre Dame.
A new edition of Imaginary Portraits by Walter Pater,
the 19th century British essayist, novelist and critic, is the
work of Eugene J. Brzenk, visiting lecturer in English at
Notre Dame. The book is published by Harper and Row.
LEADER TO DESIGN CHAPEL GLASS
Robert Leader, associate professor of Art at Notre
Dame, will design the stained glass for the chapel of a
new Juniorate Building at the College of Saint Teresa,
Winona, Minn.
McCarthy and furuhashi speak
Two faculty members of the Department of Market-
ing Management, Associate Professor E. Jerome Mc-
Carthy and Assistant Professor Yusaku Furuhashi, were
featured speakers at the National Conference of The
American Marketing Association in Boston, Mass.
PHILOSOPHY SERIES WRITTEN
Two faculty members are coauthors of a four-volume
History of Western Philosophy being published by the
Henry Regnery Company of Chicago. They are Dr. A.
Robert Caponigri, professor of Philosophy and general
editorial director for the series, and Dr. Ralph Mclnerny,
associate professor of Philosophy.
18 NOTRE DAME
FATHER O’BRIEN FEATURED
Rev. John A. O’Brien, research professor of theology
at the University of Notre Dame, recently published
simultaneous articles in the Ave Maria and the Christian
Century for the second time, in regard to the problems of
population and birth control. The famed theologian also
appeared nationwide on the NBC television network as
the guest of David Brinkley as part of a program devoted
to the same subject.
CAHILL LEADS DISCUSSION
M. Robert Cahill, ticket manager in the Athletic de-
partment of Notre Dame, was a featured speaker at the
14th Annual Convention of the College Athletic Business
Managers Association on January 6-8 at the Commodore
Hotel, New York City.
Cahill discussed the topic, “Consignment of Tickets
On and Off Campus.”
POLLARD SERVES AS CHAIRMAN
Dr. Morris Pollard, professor of Biology and director
of the Lobund Laboratory at the University of Notre
Dame, served as general chairman for the international
meeting of virologists held in New York City, in Febru-
ary.
The event was the Gustav Stem Symposium, “Per-
spectives in Virology,” for which 200 virologists from
throughout the world convened at the Barbizon Plaza
Hotel. “Hidden Viruses” was the general subject of
the scientific meeting.
FATHER McGRATH VISITS AFRICA
Rev. Joseph McGrath, G.S.C., foreign student adviser
at the University of Notre Dame, will visit several African
countries in March to interview students who have ap-
plied for some 250 scholarships available to them through
the African Scholarship Program of American Univer-
sities (ASP AU).
Father McGrath’s itinerary includes Gambia, Sierra
Leone, Liberia, Nigeria and, perhaps, Ghana. In each
country he will meet with local administrators and edu-
cators to select young Africans to come to the United
States next fall.
Since 1960, ASP AU has helped bring some 800 stu-
dents from 24 African countries to the United States.
The number of participating American colleges and
universities has grown from 24 to 215.
FACCENDA NAMED ALUMNI PRESIDENT
Phillip J. Faccenda, Chicago attorney and president
of the Midwest Container Co., Inc., was elected presi-
dent of the 35,000 member Notre Dame Alumni Asso-
ciation at the organization’s regular winter meeting of
the board of directors held on the campus.
FRENCH HISTORIAN LECTURES
Professor Roland Mousnier, French historian of early
modern Europe, gave a public lecture at Notre Dame in
January on “Seventeenth Century Popular Revolts:
Soviet versus Western Historians.” He appeared under
the auspices of Notre Dame’s department of History.
Mousnier is a professor of Modem History at The
Sorbonne and also serves as director of its Center for
Research on the Civilization of Modem Europe. Cur-
rently he is on leave as research professor at the Institute
for Research in the Humanities at the University of
Wisconsin.
HARVARD THEOLOGIAN SPEAKS
Professor H. A. Oberman, of the Harvard Divinity
School, gave a public lecture at the University of Notre
Dame in January on “Reformation and Counter Refor-
mation in the Light of Late Mediaeval Thought.” His
lecture was sponsored by the University’s Mediaeval
Institute.
ALPHA EPSILON DELTA INSTALLED
A total of 61 premedical students at Notre Dame
were recently inducted into Alpha Epsilon Delta, the
national premedical honor society, when a chapter of
the organization was formally installed on the campus.
Four officers of the 24,000-member organization con-
ducted the installation in Nieuwland Hall. They were Dr.
Maurice L. Moore, New York City, national secretary;
Dr. Charles V. Reichart, Providence, R.I., national treas-
urer; Dr. Archie Solberg, Toledo, Ohio, national vice-
president; and Dr. Robert A. Kuehne, regional director.
In addition to the students, 13 Notre Dame alumni
became charter members of the new campus chapter, and
15 faculty members, headed by Dean Frederick Rossini
of the College of Science and Dr. Lawrence Baldinger,
associate dean, became honorary members.
TWO VISITING PROFESSORS NAMED
The appointment of two visiting faculty members at
the University of Notre Dame for the spring semester
which began February 6 was announced by Rev. Chester
A. Soleta, C.S.G., vice-president for academic affairs.
Dr. Julius W. Pratt, an authority in American diplo-
matic history, was named visiting professor of history,
and Dr. Jeremiah P. Freeman, a specialist in organic
chemistry, will serve as visiting associate professor in the
Chemistry Department.
ND SCIENTISTS AT AAAS MEETING
At least nine University of Notre Dame scientists and
scholars participated in the 130th meeting of the Ameri-
can Association for the Advancement of Science in
Cleveland, Ohio, in December.
Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, dean of the College of
Science, attended the meetings of the AAAS Council and
introduced the Phi Beta Kappa-Sigma Xi lecturer, Dr.
Paul Sears of Yale University. As national president of
Sigma Xi and the Albertus Magnus Guild, he also of-
ficiated at the annual meetings of these scientific or-
ganizations which convene concurrently witK the AAAS.
Prof. Milton Burton, director of Notre Dame’s Radia-
tion Laboratory, presided at an AAAS symposium on
“Chemistry of the Excited State.”
Notre Dame’s Rev. Eman McMullin, a specialist in
the Philosophy of Science, served as panel chairman for
a discussion on “Problems of Induction” and as a com-
mentator for a paper on “Empiricist Criteria of Mean-
ing.”
Sister M. Jean Vianney Wallace, C.S.C., a doctoral
candidate in the field of Biology at Notre Dame, pre-
sented a technical paper at the AAAS sessions.
Among other Notre Dame representatives who at-
tended the scientific meeting were Dr. Lawrence H.
Baldinger, associate dean of Science, and Doctors Robert
P. McIntosh, Marvin B. Seiger, Kenyon S. Tweedell
and R. E. Gordon.
19
Or. Edward J. J. Tracey, Jr.
P. 0. Box 436
State College, Pa.
Spring is the season at reawakening. Throughout the Notre Dame
campus, young men fiock to the lawns and fields, the courts and courses.
They come as individuals, in small groups, in hall teams, or as a varsity
squad — to engage in athletic competition in the Notre Dame tradition.
The cover of this issue depicts a portion of the athletic activity on the
campus in spring. Subsequent issues this year will show other varsity,
interhah and dub sports characteristic of the Notre Dame campus today.
While there may be some overlapping of seasons with particular
sports, the featured ones this time are Track, Tennis, Boxing,
Lacrosse, and Soccer.
Under their head coach, Alex Wilson, the 1964 Notre Dame track
team is already impressive. In tennis, coach Tom Fallon hopes to
improve on last year’s 15-6 record. The Annual Bengal Bouts,
under the veteran guidance of Dominic Napolitano, director of
htermural Athletics, will feature amateur boxing at its best. And with
the departure of Northern Indiana snow and the subsequent mud,
soccer and lacrosse teams will practice and compete.
These are just a few of the athletic activities on campus in spring —
bur each is important to the overall development of the Notre Dame man.
Since Notre Dame began, more than 120 years ago, the spirit
of sports and physical development has permeated the University
and its men.
The tradition of great teaching — and great learning — is ex-
tended in the athletic arena, as well as the classroom at Notre Dame.
In order to extend this tradition for all Notre Dame men of the fu-
ture, the new Athletic and Convocation Center is an integral part of
the Challenge II program. Ir will provide headquarters for all sports,
and give students much needed, year-round facilities for every
athletic endeavor.
For additional information on this new building as well as the
other important portions of Notre Dame’s $18,000,000 Challenge II
program please write:
Tie Omversity ©f Haire Dome Fomdation
F. O. Box 555
Notre Dame, Indiana