W


o
>



/


41
§

Jr
■	’^as-
Si

<
i
i
Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., University archi-
vist, has returned to the campus after seven months of
research in London, Vienna and Rome. His principal
mission was to copy in the archives of the Sacred Con-
gregation of the Propaganda all letters and documents
dealing with the Church in the United States between
1622 and 1862. These materials soon will be available
for scholarly research at Notre Dame.

Approximately 360 graduate and undergradu-
ate degrees were conferred August 3 at com-
mencement exercises marking the close of Notre
Dame’s largest summer session. A highlight of
the ceremonies was the awarding of an honorary
Doctor of Laws degree to Rev. Charles Miltner,
C.S.C., former liberal arts dean at Notre Dame
and former president of the University of Port-
land. Dr. George N. Shuster, assistant to the
president of Notre Dame, was the commence-
ment speaker.
A DIGEST OF IMPORTANT HAPPENINGS
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
AND NEWS BRIEFS ON THE ACTIVITIES
OF NOTRE DAME MEN.
Virus Laboratory at the University of Texas
Medical Branch, Galveston. Lobund scientists
currently are conducting research projects dealing
with cancer, heart disease, dental caries, aging,
germfree surgery and other subjects.
•	Fifteen hundred Priests, Brothers and Sisters, all
major superiors of their congregations, participated in
the second National Congress of Religious at Notre
Dame August 16-19. Valerio Cardinal Valeri, Prefect
of the Sacred Congregation of the Affairs of Religious,
and Archbishop Egidio Vagnozzi, Apostolic Delegate
to the United States, addressed the Congress.
•	Notre Dame’s president, Rev. Theodore M.
Hesburgh, C.S.C., received two honorary Doctor
of Laws degrees last June. Columbia University
made its award on June 6th and Princeton Uni-
versity bestowed its honor on Father Hesburgh
on June 13th. Other institutions which have
awarded Father Hesburgh honorary degrees in
previous years include Dartmouth College, the
University of Rhode Island, Villanova Univer-
sity, Bradley University, LeMoyne College, St.
Benedict’s College and the Catholic University
of Santiago, Chile.
Rev. Charles I. McCarragher, C.S.C. has been
named vice president for student affairs at Notre
Dame. He succeeds Rev. George Bernard, C.S.C.,
now superior of Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C.
In his new post Father McCarragher will oversee a
revised regimen of student life including spiritual and
moral development, discipline, student government and
extracurricular organizations and activities.
James E. Armstrong, executive secretary of the
University of Notre Dame Alumni Association,
was named president-elect of The American
Alumni Council at its national convention in
Hollywood, Florida, in July.
Notre Dame will inaugurate a Freshman Year of
Studies in September, 1962. The beginning student
will not enter directly into any of the four under-
graduate colleges. He will make a “declaration of in-
tent” as to the college of his preference, but he will
not have to make final educational plans until after nearly
a year of experience and counseling at Notre Dame. Dr.
William Miller Burke will implement the program in
the newly created post of Dean of Freshmen.
Dr. Morris Pollard has been named director of
Notre Dame’s Lobund Laboratories which have
pioneered in germfree animal research. He for-
merly served as professor and director of the
•	A University of Notre Dame symposium on “The
Church in a Pluralistic Society: “American Catholicism
in the Sixties” was held June 27-29 with Dr. John J.
Kane, head of the department of sociology, as sym-
posium chairman.
•	Oliver C. Carmichael, Jr., chairman of the
board of Associates Investment Co. and the First
Bank and Trust Co., South Bend, Ind., has been
appointed to the University of Notre Dame’s As-
sociate Board of Lay Trustees.
•	Dr. Matthew A. Fitzsimons, professor of history,
editor of the REVIEW OF POLITICS, and a member
of the Committee on International Relations at the
University of Notre Dame, was honored at the annual
convention of the National Council of Catholic Men
in Pittsburgh, Pa.
•	G. E. Harwood, Comptroller at the University
of Notre Dame, was elected vice president of the
Central Association of College and University
Business Officers at its recent meeting in Kansas
City, Mo.
•	Research grants totaling over 0200,000 were awarded
to Notre Dame this summer. They included new
grants and extensions of previous grants from such
(Continued on page 19)
NOTRE DAME
VOL. 14, No. 3, FALL, 1961
• EDITOR: JOHN H. JANOWSKI
Published quarterly by the University of Notre
Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second
class matter May 10, 1928, at Post Office at Notre
Dame, Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.
2 NOTRE DAME

President
The University of Notre Dame
Mr. I. A. O’Shaugnessy
St. Paul, Minnesota
Honorary Chairman
Mr. J. Peter Grace, Jr.
New York, New York
National Chairman
Mr. Joseph I. O’Neill
Midland, Texas
General Appeal Chairman
Across the nation on the evening of October 17, thousands of alum-
ni and friends who make up the Notre Dame family will join in a
gigantic rally marking the opening of the University’s $18,000,000
Challenge Program General Appeal.
In 175 cities, large and small, Notre Dame supporters will gather
for unprecedented simultaneous meetings to “kick-off” this most im-
portant fund drive in the 120-year history of the University.
Many of these cities will be joined by a special closed-circuit
telephone program, emanating from the campus at 8 p.m. (C.D.T.)
and featuring remarks of the Challenge Program leaders and music
by the Notre Dame Glee Club. All of the cities will show a special
filmed address by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame’s
President, who will emphasize the vital need of the Challenge Pro-
gram to the continuing growth and development of Notre Dame.
Joining Father Hesburgh in his appeal on the October 17 Rally
program will be I. A. O’Shaugnessy, Honorary Chairman; J. Peter
Grace, National Chairman; and Joseph I. O’Neill, Jr., General Ap-
peal Chairman, and other campaign leaders on the campus and
around the country.
This Rally will mark the first time in the history of the Univer-
sity that alumni and friends of Notre Dame have shared a common
date for a nationwide observance of this nature and stature. It will
also serve to marshall the strength and loyalty of all Notre Dame
men for this important task.
Already, many have heard about the Challenge Program and the
great opportunity afforded the University as the result of the generous
Ford Foundation grant which provides $6,000,000 matching funds
to the University on contributions of $12,000,000 by Notre Dame’s
alumni and friends on or before July 1, 1963.
On the following pages, you will find a brief explanation of the
scope and urgency of Notre Dame’s $18,000,000 Challenge Program.
3
tWB*-
OA thirteen-story Memorial
Library already under con-
struction on the Notre Dame
campus with a capacity of two
million volumes.
$8,000,000
©Two Graduate Students Res-
idence Halls; one for Teach-
ing Nuns and the other for Lay
Students providing ”on-campusn
living quarters for 400 persons.
$4,000,000
©Student Aid in the form of
scholarships, fellowships, and
direct loans. Necessary to finance
deserving students who have need
of such help.
$2,000,000
©Faculty Fund increases to
secure the best possible
teaching talent available and com-
pete successfully with the more
lucrative offerings of private in-
dustry.
$3,500,000
®An Administrative Fund to
establish a retirement pro-
gram for non-academic employees
of the University who work long
and faithfully for the advancement
of Notre Dame ideals.
$500,000
The Challenge Program of
the University of Notre
Dame — the greatest single need
in the history of the University
and so vital for continuing excel-
$18,000,000
One of the things which
makes Notre Dame unique
among colleges and univer-
sities is its extensive resi-
dence hall system. Seven-
teen residence halls accom-
modate 4,450 undergrad-
uates and constitute an in-
dispensable ingredient of
the University’s life and
spirit. Campus housing for
graduate students, however,
is severely limited. In the
near future Notre Dame
plans to build two graduate
residence halls, one for lay
students, the other for sis-
ters, at a total cost of $4
million.
A great library can exist apart from
a university, but it is impossible for a
university to achieve eminence unless it
has a truly great library. A large new li-
brary is Notre Dame’s most urgent and
critical need. It will stimulate the stu-
dents, expedite faculty research, generate
new life in all the schools and colleges,
and symbolize the University’s dedication
to academic excellence.
The present University library was con-
structed during World War I when Notre
Dame had an enrollment of only 1,200
students. Today, with an enrollment of
6,000, the building is entirely inadequate
and is filled to capacity with over 400,000
volumes. Its design precludes the open-
shelf policy of most modern libraries. The
reading rooms, once commodious, are
overcrowded. At examination time it’s
virtually “standing room only.”
The new library will be the largest
edifice yet built at Notre Dame. Archi-
tectural studies indicate that it will cost
at least eight million dollars. Its thirteen
stories will house 2,000,000 volumes and
provide study facilities for up to one-half
of the University’s 6,000 students at one
time. Modern design and expert planning
assure that books will be readily accessible
for study and research.
Whereas there was no graduate school
when the present library was built in
1917, there are twenty-six departments
offering graduate degrees today. The cur-
rent graduate enrollment of 700 is ex-
pected to grow steadily. The new library
will attract outstanding faculty members
and promising graduate students who will
find in it the facilities and atmosphere
conducive to research.
The Notre Dame Memorial Library will
be, in Father Hesburgh’s words, “the
academic heart of a University destined to
become a real center of excellence in
higher learning in the very heartland of
America.”
The new library building and its facili-
ties offer many opportunities for living
memorials or designated gifts.
A graduate hall for men,
coupled with the new li-
brary, and increasing num-
ber of fellowships, and a
faculty constantly growing
in excellence, would attract
graduate students of the
highest caliber to Notre
Dame. Virtually all of the
University’s lay graduate
students today must live off-
campus, often in quarters
not conducive to scholarly
work. Living away from the
campus, they miss the Uni-
versity atmosphere, the ca-
maraderie of their fellows,
and the spiritual and cul-
tural advantages which
Notre Dame offers its resi-
dence students.
The graduate residence
hall for men will be located
on the east side of the
campus near the proposed
Notre Dame Memorial Li-
brary. It will contain its
own chapel, recreation
room, and study lounge, in
addition to 200 rooms ac-
commodating a like number
of graduate students.
With the completion of
this important building pro-
ject the influence of the
graduate student on the
over-all campus life will be
more pronounced.
In turn, graduate stu-
dents will be able to live on
the campus of Notre Dame
while obtaining their ad-
vanced degrees, thus elimi-
nating the worry of accom-
modations and transporta-
tion which accompanies off-
campus living.
The sisters’ graduate hall
will be far more than a
campus convent. It will, in-
deed, be a center of schol-
arship where nuns will live
a year or more before re-
turning to the Catholic edu-
cational system with ad-
vanced degrees.
Today the majority of
sisters pursuing master’s de-
grees spend five summers at
the University. If residence
facilities were available dur-
ing the regular school year,
they could accomplish their
goal in a year-and-a-half.
Approximately seventy sis-
ters currently enrolled in
The Graduate School live
in a remodeled section of
the old convent. Their num-
ber could be tripled with
the erection of a new resi-
dence hall.
The extension of Catholic
leadership in the arts,
sciences and professions and
the improvement of teach-
ing and scholarship in our
Catholic schools are two
goals of primary importance
today. Erection of two grad-
uate residence halls at Notre
Dame, one for lay scholars
and another for teaching
sisters, will be of inestimable
value. The University will
benefit, to be sure, but of
greater significance is their
value to the Catholic edu-
cational system. The new
library and the two grad-
uate halls within its shadow
will become a center of
scholarship and research of
untold benefit to the nation
and the Church.
Notre Dame feels a deep
obligation to provide a
graduate residence hall for
nuns if we are to continue
to provide the best possible
teachers for the Catholic
schools throughout the na-
tion.
3...
Funds for scholarships,
fellowships and loans must
continue to grow if Notre
Dame is to compete success-
fully for its share of out-
standing students.
University-administered
scholarships were available
in the fall of 1960 for less
than 10% of the 675 fresh-
man applicants in need of
financial assistance. About
half of the 116 high school
valedictorians who had
hoped to enroll at Notre
Dame were unable to do so
because scholarship aid was
lacking. Although five hun-
dred undergraduates hold
scholarships of various
kinds, funds are urgently
needed to give still more
deserving young men the
oportunity of a Notre Dame
education.
technical
ministrative and
personnel.
The greatest need of The
Graduate School is financial
support for its students. Few
of them can rely on parents
for further assistance. In-
stead they depend on fel-
lowships (tuition plus a
stipend for living expenses)
and part-time jobs. Fellow-
ships, which do not involve
teaching or other work, are
particularly important for
the first year of graduate
study, and Notre Dame has
virtually none! A gift of
$75,000 will endow a one-
year fellowship, and the in-
come from a fund of $60,-
000 will underwrite tuition,
board and room for an un-
dergraduate for one year.
Notre Dame’s student
loan funds have grown to
a half-million dollars —
much more than that is
needed! Although one out
of every seven students
holds a part-time campus
job, the growing cost of a
higher education makes it
inevitable that more stu-
dents will turn to loans to
help finance their way
through college in future
years.
The stature of a univer-
sity and the strength of its
academic departments de-
pend ultimately on the
quality of the faculty. Since
1953, Notre Dame’s faculty
development program has
been accorded the highest
priority. Funds for increased
faculty salaries constitute
the largest single segment of
the University’s ten-year de-
velopment blueprint.
Already much has been
accomplished. Faculty sala-
ries have been increasing
about $250,000 annually.
The number of Notre Dame
faculty members holding
doctorates has increased by
116 during the past ten
years. Renowned scientists,
scholars and artists have
joined the University’s dis-
tinguished teaching corps
permanently or as visiting
professors.
The momentum of Notre
Dame’s faculty development
program increased sharply
with the dramatic Ford
Foundation grant of $3,-
074,500 during 1956-57.
Now, recognizing what the
University has accomplished
to date, The Ford Founda-
tion challenges Notre Dame
to even greater progress in
the future.
5 ■ ■ ■
A university is a com-
munity of scholars, but the
modern campus could not
function effectively without
hundreds of supporting,
non-academic personnel.
Laymen predominate in
Notre Dame’s business of-
fices, on the public relations
and development staff, in
food service, maintenance
and related activities. Some
have served under as many
as eight Notre Dame presi-
dents!
While faculty members
have participated in a re-
tirement plan for thirteen
years, the University has not
been in a position to in-
augurate a comparable plan
for non-teaching employees.
A fund of $500,000 would
enable Notre Dame to de-
velop a retirement program
which would provide for
the security of its senior em-
ployees and serve to retain
and attract first-rate ad-
1
~ X *	•	’ 7"- ’
For every human institution, as for
every human person, there comes a
moment of truth. Notre Dame’s mo-
ment of truth will be upon us this Fall.
It will not be the first that Notre Dame
has faced in 120 years of uphill his-
tory. Nor will it be the last. But this is
the moment of truth that we face now.
We may all understand this mo-
ment better if we remember another
moment, many years ago, in fact,
eighty-two years ago. On one April
afternoon, most of what was then Fa-
ther Sorin’s life work at Notre Dame
went up in smoke. His moment of truth
meant one of two paths: to quit in
disgust, or to advance in faith. Without
plans, without money, without even
food or beds at hand, he began to clean
off the bricks as they cooled on the heap
of ruins, and from those ruins grew a
greater Notre Dame, one that somehow
was paid for, no not somehow, because
atop the new Notre Dame was a Golden
Dome, a throne for Notre Dame, Our
Lady.
Much has happened since. Bright
days and grey days have come and
gone. But throughout the history of this
hallowed place, in all its moments of
truth, there has shone the bright vision
of faith in the future. “What though
the odds be great or small, Old Notre
Dame will win over all.”
I have told all of you, sons and
daughters and good friends of Notre
Dame, that what we need most at this
juncture in our history is a splendid
new Library that will be a living, work-
ing monument to the saints and schol-
ars of all times: those long dead and
those who follow them with bright eyes
and pure hearts through the portals of
Notre Dame in our day.
Because we need this, we have begun
to build it — not with the money in
hand, no more than Father Sorin had,
but with the same faith in you and in
Notre Dame’s future. Whether this
spells folly or vision is the substance of
our moment of truth this Fall. Either
the funds mount as the building mounts,
or we are in trouble. All moments of
truth are like this. They can go either
way: fife or death, success or failure,
happiness or unhappiness.

As I stand beside the gaping two
acre excavation for the new Memorial
Library, and listen to the pile drivers
hammering in the foundation, I confess
to an occasional passing twinge of fear,
but not to a lack of confidence in all of
you who have helped make Notre Dame
the shining beacon that it is today.
What Notre Dame will be tomorrow is
also in your generous hands to make. I
do not doubt that we shall successfully
face, with your help, this latest mo-
ment of truth.
Ever devotedly yours in
Notre Dame,
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.
President



By Rev. T'homas T. McAvoy, C.S.C.
Notre Dame men have always responded eagerly to
serve our country in time of war.
Scores of Notre Dame priests have volunteered their
services as chaplains and served courageously in three
major conflicts of the 20th century. But 100 years ago
Notre Dame priests initiated this tradition by serving as
chaplains in the Civil War. The history of these Civil
War chaplains of the Congregation of Holy Cross and
the University of Notre Dame stand out most prominently.
Father Edward Sorin, C.S.C., the founder of Notre
Dame, speaking in his journal for the year 1861 relates
the following:
“. . . And by the end of autumn about six hundred
thousand had abandoned everything to defend their
country.
“Of this number one-third were Catholics. Notre
Dame du lac at once thought of providing those Catholic
soldiers with the helps of their holy religion. Father Paul
Gillen was the first sent to Washington, the headquarters
of the Grand Army, towards the end of June. He did
much there. Three other Fathers were successively sent
thither and accepted by the government as chaplains,
Rev. William Corby, C.S.C.
namely: Fathers James Dillon, Peter P. Cooney, and
William Corby.”
And when Father Corby returned to Notre Dame
in 1864 for a visit, this group had been increased to
eight. These, with the exception of the young Father
Julian Bourget, C.S.C., who died of cholera while serving
in the army hospitals, are mentioned in the following
passage from Father Corby’s book, “Memoirs of Chap-
lain Life.”
“Notre Dame sent out seven priests as chaplains, and
counting the Rev. Dr. Kilroy who is also a child of
Notre Dame, there were eight priests of the community
of Holy Cross rendering spiritual aid to the poor soldiers
in the field and in the hospitals. These were the Revs.
J. M. Dillon, C.S.C.; P. P. Cooney, C.S.C.; Dr. E. B.
Kilroy, C.S.C.; J. C. Carrier, C.S.C.; Paul E. Gillen,
C.S.C.; Joseph Leveque, C.S.C.; and the writer W. Corby,
C.S.C.”
Apologists are always ready to point with pride to
the record of these noble priests, but a fitting written
record of their accomplishments is unavailable except
in Father Corby’s book. Father Peter Paul Cooney, C.S.C.,
had planned to publish an official record of the sendees
of Catholic chaplains in the Union and Confederate
armies, and had collected considerable material for it,
but ill health prevented the accomplishment of the task.
He did leave behind letters that are in the Notre Dame
Archives, along with his notes, which give valuable
information.
One must bear in mind that in the Civil War the life
of a chaplain differed quite a bit from that of the chap-
lain of today. Now our chaplains are forced to live ac-
cording to a strict Anny discipline; and, in fact, become
an integral part of the Army. Judging from Father
Cooney’s letters, as well as from other published sources,
7
Rev. P. P. Cooney, C.S.C.
Rev. Paul E. Gillen, C.S.C.
the life of a Civil War chaplain was much less con-
strained. At firsts their uniforms were of their own pick-
ings their attachments to their regiments were not offi-
03	cJ
cially close, and their personal independence greater.
Their relations with the soldiers were not confined to
spiritual direction and administration of the sacraments.
Father Cooney, for instance, acted as an adviser in tem-
poral as well as spiritual matters, even assuming the
duty of conveying the soldiers’ money from the camp to
their families.
These chaplains were not bound to reside all the time
in the camp. Frequently they resided with the resident
priests in the towns visited by the armies. They made
frequent trips between the camp and their homes. And
in the administration of the sacraments, the priest had
almost the run of the camp — the opportunity for con-
fession and spiritual comfort holding the supreme place
on the eve of battle, and on certain feast days. The
devotion that existed between the chaplains and their
charges was usually open and sincere; and in no case
was this more manifest than in that of Father Cooney
and his “Irish regiment.” When the time came for his
release from service he wrote that he would fear separa-
tion from these men more than separation from his family.
The men in turn, sent a grand petition to his religious
superior, Father Edward Sorin, C.S.C., for his continu-
ance as chaplain, giving ample proof of their deep affec-
tion for their chaplain.
The interest that attaches to the war chaplain, how-
ever, is directed primarily to his connection with the
war. The number of battles in which he assisted, the
number of war notables he was associated with, the cases
of actual influence upon a soldier’s life, and the peculiar
incidents of camp life are the chief bits we want to know
about any chaplain and the following should be of interest.
Briefly, here are the service records of Notre Dame’s
Civil War chaplains:
Father P. P. Cooney, C.S.C., volunteered shortly after
the war broke out when Indiana Governor Oliver P.
Morton asked Father Sorin for chaplain priests. Father
Cooney’s first assignment was with the 1st regiment of
Indiana volunteers — Indiana’s Irish Regiment. He then
became associated with the 35th Indiana, which was part
of the Army of the Cumberland and fought in Kentucky
and Tennessee.
. Father Cooney was discharged on June 16, 1865,
after having given four of the best years of his life in the
service of the country.
During his service, Father Cooney helped to bring
money back from the soldiers to their families at home,
and he became very close to the soldiers he served. As
an example of the affection they had for Father Cooney,
Father Sorin’s journal describes an episode where Father
Sorin was asked to let Father Cooney continue on as
chaplain of the 35th.
“When this same Father, worn out by fatigue and
almost a wreck, some weeks afterward, preaching at
Mass, announced to his regiment that his superior recalled
him, and it was evident that his state of weakness did
not permit him any longer to continue a ministry which
was too burdensome for him, those veterans as he him-
self relates who during nearly four years had fearlessly
met all the imaginable dangers of war, began to weep
like children. On that very day a petition was drawn
8
NOTRE DAME
up and signed by all the officers of the regiment and by
the General of the division, who with his own hand
declared that the recall of F. Cooney ‘Would be a
calamity.’ This document is a real masterpiece of the
Father Corby’s blessing at Gettysburg. (Right): Captain J. J.
McCormick, Father James Dillon, Father Corby. (Standing):
Father Patrick Dillon and Dr. K. O’Hanlon.

noblest sentiments of the human heart. The superior of
Notre Dame could not resist; F. Cooney could nowhere
else be more highly esteemed, more loved, in a better
position to do good.”
Father William Corby, C.S.C., was probably the most
colorful of the Notre Dame Civil War chaplains. His
book, of course, is filled with many experiences and im-
pressions. Like Father Cooney, Father Corby also col-
lected money from the soldiers to bring back to their
families. He served with the Army of the Potomac and
perhaps his greatest moment was when he gave a general
absolution to the Irish brigade before the Battle of Gettys-
burg. Father Corby stood on a large rock in front of the
brigade, and Catholics and non-Catholics alike bowed
Rev. James M. Dillon, C.S.C,
down as Father Corby gave the blessing. This scene has
been preserved in a painting housed at the University
of Notre Dame and illustrated in this article. Also, the
battlefield of Gettysburg itself contains a monument
honoring Fathei' Corby and his bravery.
Father Gillen, C.S.C., was also with the Army of the
Potomac and served various units of the army in his
many travels. At first he refused a commission because
in so doing he had a bettei' chance to travel between
outfits, saying Mass and administering the sacraments;
but finally he did accept the commission and gained fame
for moving about with a “portable” altar set up on a
wagon, which also served as a shelter in stormy weather.
Father Joseph Carrier, C.S.C., was sent to join Sher-
man’s army under Grant during the siege of Vicksburg.
Fathers Paul Gillen and James Dillon served in the
battles of the Potomac. Father Gillen served from July
21, 1861, Bull Run, until the end of the war, one of the
longest periods of service among the chaplains.
In addition, Father Cooney gave general absolution
at the Battle of Stone River in Tennessee similar to that
of Father Corby of Gettysburg.
Each of these chaplains can be cited for other brave
deeds and courageous exploits; but because of the limita-
tion of space, let us just point out an interesting fact in
conclusion.
These men who served from Notre Dame as chap-
lains in the Civil War were the “cream of the crop” of
Notre Dame’s priests. After the war they became leaders
of the Congregation of Holy Cross as provincials and
superiors and Father William Corby, C.S.C., became
president of the University of Notre Dame.
Notre Dame is proud to look back 100 years to find
that even then, the Holy Gross priests were giving their
all for “God, Country, and Notre Dame.”
9

PEACE
COPPS
Volunteers
by Walter M. Langford
1
I
Just two months ago, on July 20, Notre Dame
— and the 33 other universities and colleges of
the Indiana Conference of Higher Education —
got into the Peace Corps act in a big way.
On that day more than 50 Volunteers from
23 states zeroed in on the Golden Dome to
undergo intensive training for eight weeks pre-
paratory to departure for Chile, where they will
work for the coming two years in basic educa-
tion and the betterment of living standards of
the rural population in southern Chile.
Naturally, July 20 did not really mark the
start of this Chilean Peace Corps Project but
merely the beginning date of its first active
phase. The idea for this venture goes back
several months to the day in late March when
Notre'Dame’s President Father Hesburgh and
Peter Fraenkel, assistant to President Herman
Wells of Indiana University, flew to Chile to
scout personally the possibilities of such a project
and to work out many of the preliminary de-
tails. Afterwards there ensued an endless round
of correspondence, meeting, and discussions in-
volving the top personnel of the Peace Corps
and representatives of the 34 Indiana institu-
tions of higher learning.
All of this planning culminated in the first
announcement of the Chilean Project by Mr.
R. Sargent Shriver, director of the Peace Corps,
when he delivered the Commencement Address
at Notre Dame on June 4, 1961. He pinpointed
the importance of the project by identifying it
as “the first agreement of its kind ever reached between
an agency of the U.S. Government, a consortium of Amer-
ican universities, and a foreign country.”	-
A problem of recruitment among the Indiana schools
existed automatically by virtue of the fact ^jhat^jby^ dhe
date of the announcement of this project a...gr^at many
of the colleges had already finished their academic year.
Nevertheless, recommendations for 52 graduates of many
of the Indiana schools were soon in the hands of a state-
wide selection committee, and this number was augmented
by more than 100 applicants from the Peace Corps’ na-
tional pool of Volunteers. Eventually, 62 were invited
to report to the training program beginning July 20th at
Notre Dame and 52 accepted. Of this number not more
than 42 will eventually be chosen for the work in Chile.
The Chilean Volunteers represent a wide assortment
of colleges as well as of states. Surely the Notre Dame
family can be pardoned for taking some pride
in noting that our graduates form by far the
largest group from any single campus, there
being nine Notre Dame men in the group. Our
friends across the road at Saint Mary’s College
hold down the second spot with three Volun-
teers in the training program. In all, the
graduates of Indiana colleges account for
almost 40% of the total number in training.
The Notre Dame Volunteers are: David W.
Coombs, ’61, Delray Beach, Florida; Michael
E. Curtin, ’61, Tulsa, Oklahoma; James G.
Fitzgerald, ’61, Chicago, Illinois; William H.
Fox, ’56, Chicago, Illinois; Joseph J. Keyer-
leber, ’61, Shaker Heights, Ohio; James D.
Madden, ’61, Chicago, Illinois; Thomas G.
Paulick, ’61, Chicago, Illinois; Martin T. Ro-
nan, ’61, Chicago, Illinois; Thomas J. Scanlon,
J	J	O J	a	V*	y
variety of col-
’60, Scranton, Pennsylvania
Besides representing a wide
10 NOTRE DAME

Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame's President,
welcomes a contingent of Peace Corps Volun-
teers to the University, where they began an intensive course of studies before departing for work in Chile.
leges and states, the Volunteers also have training and
specialties in many different fields, such as nursing, farm-
ing, social work, horticulture, home economics, forestry,
nutrition, dental hygiene, zoology, photography, recrea- ’
tion, radio, construction, teaching, animal husbandry,
and others.
It was mentioned earlier that the training would be
intensive. To be specific, the Volunteers put in 60 hours
of work each week (8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. Monday
through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. on Saturday).
More than 1/3 of these hours are devoted to Spanish —
classroom instruction, laboratory drills, conversational
practice in small groups, and study time, plus guided
conversation at lunch and dinner. The remainder of the
time is claimed by study and work in Chilean civiliza-
tion and culture, Chilean history and institutions, the
American heritage (a practical, concise treatment of our
way of life for its proper interpretation abroad), physi-
cal education and recreational training, a medical course
(first-aid and self-treatment, hygiene and sanitation, men-
tal health, etc.), plus group discussions, films, lectures,
and other activities.
The Indiana Conference has accorded me the honor
and responsibility of serving as coordinator of the Chilean
Peace Corps Project. The assistant coordinator is George
E. Smith, associate professor of modern languages at
Purdue University. We will accompany the group to
Chile and remain in direct charge during the stay in that
country.
Upon arrival in Chile the Volunteers will embark
upon another rigorous training program, this one of ten
weeks in length. The emphasis again will be largely on
the Spanish language, along with an on-the-scene study
and familiarization with Chilean life. At the same time
our group will be trained in the activities and techniques
of the Institute of Rural Education, a non-sectarian pri-
vate organization which is widely recognized for its work
in basic education and community betterment among
the peasants and small farmers of rural Chile. It is with
this national organization that our Volunteers will do
their work in Chile.
The exact nature of the work that will be done is
not easy to describe in a few words. Let us say first that
it may best be called fundamental education and that
(Continued on page 19)
j	by BROTHER RAPHAEL WILSON, C.S.C., Ph.D.
|	Cancer research, at Notre Dame’s Lobund laboratories,
|	now a part of the Department of Biology., currently in-
|	volves studies in tumor transplantation. Lobund scientists
|	hope that the new knowledge gained here will not only
J	aid scientists in cancer research but may also provide a
key to the very nature of cancer.
|	The present experiments represent one more way in
I	which germfree animal techniques developed at Lobund
I	are being applied to the solution of current problems in
Of
MICE
and MEN
and CANCER
biology and medicine. Tumor transplantation is not new
to the research scientist., but transplanting tumors into
germfree animals is a new approach.
Tumor transplantation follows the same rules as tissue
transplantation. Tumors can be transplanted successfully
only from one animal to another of very close genetic
relationship. Animals of different strains are not capable
of maintaining transferred tumor material because, it is
believed, of defense mechanisms which reject it.
The defense mechanism in a germfree animal is at
o
a low level of development, it has been previously demon-
strated at Lobund. As a result, the germfree animals are
more susceptible to tumor transplants than are those living
under normal conditions. The opportunity to study tumor
development in germfree animals is, therefore, welcomed
by the scientist interested in the body’s defense against
cancer.
The defense mechanism is a system of cells, known as
the reticulo-endothelial (RE) system, which penetrates all
parts of the body and is believed responsible for certain
immunities and other types of natural protection. Al-
though this RE system is underdeveloped in the germ-
free animals, it is not necessarily defective. Tumor
transplants might possibly stimulate the system to such
This germfree rodent may someday hold the key to man’s
conquest of cancer.
After the injection by the researcher, this mouse will provide
vital medical data.
high activity that the tumor would be rejected. To pre-
vent this, some of the animals are given doses of x-irradia-
tion which cripple the RE system of cells.
Ordinary animals whose defense mechanism was thus
treated would be subject to bacterial infections which
might kill them. At the least, such infections would
obscure the effects of tumor transplantation. This can-
not happen to the germfree animals because they are
kept in complete isolation from all types of bacteria. And
because the defense mechanism is made inactive, it is
possible to transplant into these animals tumors from
animals which are not of close genetic relationship, in-
cluding even those from human beings.
So far, 25 malignant tumors, of both human and
animal origin, have been screened at Lobund for their
transfer characteristics. One tumor, which arose spon-
taneously in a germfree rat, has been followed closely. It
has been possible to transfer this tumor indefinitely from
one germfree rat to another. However, when the tumor
is transplanted into conventional rats that are not germ-
free, it dies out after five or six transfers. This difference
in response has become the subject of intensive study at
Lobund.
Current experiments are designed to detect the mechan-
ism of this difference by making the germfree animal
resistant to the tumor through various means of stimula-
tion. At the same time, the conventional animal is altered
so that it becomes more susceptible. Such research is ex-
pected to add information about the body’s natural de-
fense against cancer.
The question as to whether or not certain tumors are
caused by viruses is another aspect of this work. While it
is not claimed that germfee animals are also virus-free,
studies to date have not revealed any viruses in their
bodies. And yet germfree animals do develop spontaneous
tumors. Lobund cancer research, financed by a grant from
the Cancer Society of St. Joseph County, Indiana, Inc.,
is collaborating with the Sloan-Kettering Institute for
Cancer Research, New York City, in this phase of tumor
studies.
COEDS of the CLOTH ...
Coeds at Notre Dame? Impossible!
Well, not really, when you realize that each summer
hundreds of nuns are enrolled at the University studying
a variety of courses ranging from History and English
to Chemistry and Engineering Drawing.
In this year’s recently completed Summer Session,
a total of 1509 Sisters were enrolled at Notre Dame.
Approximately 75 per cent of this total were taking
courses leading to graduate degrees.
In 1954, only 704 nuns attended the University. Each
year since the number has increased, and the 1961 total
is a record high.
The Sisters who studied at Notre Dame this summer
came from 253 religious communities. Two of the nuns
were from Puerto Rico and 36 were from Canadian
communities. In 1960’s Summer Session, 1358 nuns
from '245 religious communities were enrolled.
The growing influence and prestige of Notre Dame
in the academic world is augmented by the fact that
more and more religious communities throughout the
North American continent choose Notre Dame as a place
of study to advance the education of their teaching
Sisters.
It is also gratifying to know that in years to come,
these Sisters who have studied at Notre Dame them-
selves, will be helping to train and develop Notre Dame’s
students of the future. Their experiences and memories
of the University help to make them ardent and staunch
supporters of the school.
The University salutes these “Coeds of the Cloth,”
and welcomes them to the Notre Dame family.
•T-’S?


SOVIET POLICY
toward
International Control
of Atomic Energy
by Joseph L Nogee
Soviet Policy Toward International Control of
Atomic Energy (320 pp., $6.50) was written by Joseph
L. Nogee. By indirection, it is as starkly revealing of the
reasoning behind American policies as is American
Diplomacy. Professor Nogee examines the UN record of
the official Soviet policies toward the control of atomic
energy. In this fascinating account of the twists and
turns taken by Soviet policy-makers in this matter, the
author has uncovered an underlying thread of strategic
consistency that renders understandable the surface in-
consistencies of Kremlin tactics.
Mr. Nogee, a native of upstate New York, received
his Ph.D. degree from Yale and is presently Assistant
Professor of Political Science at the University of Hous-
ton. His book on Soviet policy is the outgrowth of re-
search he undertook while at Yale.
Two new books, each in its own way revelatory of
American attitudes toward current affairs, have been
added to the University of Notre Dame Press’ distin-
guished International Studies Series.
AMERICAN
DIPLOMACY
in a
NEW ERA
by Stephen D. Kertesz
American Diplomacy in a New Era (601 pp.,
$10.00), edited by Stephen D. Kertesz, deals with the
international problems that have confronted America’s
diplomats since 1945. Nineteen scholars of international
affairs have contributed essays falling into three general
categories: US area diplomacy, the State Department’s
organizational and policy-making structure, and the
likely prospects of this country’s policies in the future.
Contributors include men like Hans Morgenthau, Philip
Mosely, and Lindsay Rogers, all known for the skill and
insight of their diplomatic writing.
Stephen D. Kertesz, Professor of Political Science at
Notre Dame, is a former Hungarian diplomat, who served
in 1946 as secretary-general of his nation’s delegation to
the Paris peace negotiations. He severed his diplomatic
connections the following year when he was unable to
reconcile himself to serving a government which had
fallen totally under communist influence.
14
NOTRE DAME
... Tolls Death Knell for Fabled 'Vetville’
A few months ago, the University of Notre Dame
announced plans to construct apartments for married
students and their families on the campus. Today sev-
eral families have moved in or are making plans to move
into the completed apartments. And as they do, another
era of Notre Dame life passed into the realm of the
remembered.
That era, of course, began immediately after World
War II when veterans returned to the Notre Dame
campus by the thousands — many with a wife and chil-
dren who were not around when they left Notre Dame
and entered the service. As they returned, accompanied
by their families, a desperate housing need developed.
No longer would the ivy-covered halls of Sorin and Dillon
suffice. What were needed were apartments for families,
complete with kitchen and laundry facilities and plenty of
room for strollers, buggies, and playpens.
On November 1, 1946, “Vetville” officially became
part of the Notre Dame campus. The first contingent of
24 veteran’s families moved into the housing project on
the eastern edge of the University, east of Juniper Road
in an area extending north from the Stadium to the
Power Plant.
Each apartment unit for a veteran’s family contained
two bedrooms, a kitchen and bath, gas heating and hot
water facilities, and ample yard area on the outside.
Three apartments were housed in each of the 39 wooden-
frame structures which were originally used to house
“prisoners-of-war” at a camp in Weingarten, Missouri.
Throughout the post-war years, veterans and married
students vied for accommodations in “Vetville” for their
families. The convenience of location (less than a half-
mile from the heart of the campus) and the economical
rent ($'27.00 per month plus utilities) were not the only
features of this phenomenal community which attracted
would-be residents. In addition, there was a spirit of
neighborliness and cooperation which seemed to abound
and grow in the shadow of the Golden Dome.
Together, the families of “Vetville” grew! They grew
in numbers with new babies arriving as the semesters
passed. They grew in wisdom and grace too, with the
help of their own special chaplain who ministered not
only to their spiritual needs but also dispensed practical
advice and material assistance ranging from “how to
set up a budget” to arranging for student baby-sitters.
Many of the early residents of “Vetville” point with
pride and recall the unselfish and tireless energy of their
first chaplain, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.G., now
Notre Dame’s president.
Today, the married student’s housing project is par-
tially completed and is located northwest of the campus
proper near U.S. Highway 31. The entire center will
eventually consist of 108 apartments. Upon completion
of the construction, the new married students housing
center will replace “Vetville” entirely, thanks to a
$1,000,000 loan from the U.S. Community Facilities
Administration.
Statistically, “Vetville” housed more than 700 Notre
Dame families in its 16 year life. Using the average of
three children per family, more than 3500 persons were
influenced by “life in Vetville.” Each of these persons
shared a common experience with their neighbors, which
made them better students, better neighbors and better
citizens.
The occupants of the new married students housing
center on the Notre Dame campus will inherit this rich
tradition of community spirit and unselfish cooperation
from their predecessors in “Vetville.” In addition, they
will enjoy better living conditions in modem apartments
with all the modern conveniences.
Yes, “Vetville” is dead, but its spirit lingers on for
future ND families — thanks to those “Vetville” pioneers.
15
Notre Dame Football
By Charles M.
Callahan
Who was it said that linemen don’t get any atten-
tion in football.. .that the backs get all the glory?
hat would not be quite true in recent years at Notre
Dame. For it would almost seem that the guards have
taken over.
First of all, the boss of the gridiron picture is a former
guard, Head Football Coach Joe Kuharich.
And for the last four years, a guard has either cap-
tained or co-captained the Fighting Irish. The guard cap-
taincy reign began in 1958 when Al Ecuyer, an All-Ameri-
can, by the way, shared the team leadership with Chuck
Puntillo, a tackle.
Ken Adamson captained the 1959 team, and the
leader of the 1960 eleven was Myron Pottios, both guards.
Pottios, like Ecuyer, won All-American honors.
Now for the forthcoming season, the co-captains will
be Nick Buoniconti, senior from Springfield, Mass., and
Norb Roy, senior from Baton Rouge, La. Both, of course,
are guards; and it is interesting in this year of the Civil
War Centennial that the Fighting Irish will be led by a
“Yankee” and a “Rebel.”
Going back to his own playing days, Kuharich was a
monogram guard in 1935, 1936, and 1937. He was first
O	O	j	j
team the last two years, and as a senior he won All-Mid-
west honors.
There is another interesting statistic on Notre Dame
guards. Of the 76 Irish performers who have been hon-
ored by first or second team All-American selections, the
guards rank number one position-wise. The Notre Dame
All-America list shows: 16 guards, 13 ends, 11 halfbacks,
10 fullbacks, 10 tackles, eight quarterbacks and eight
centers. It also should be pointed out that the only second
team selections included were those picked by Walter
Camp in the long ago when his All-American teams were
the only All-America selections.
The roster of Notre Dame All-America guards is as
follows:
1916—CHARLES BACHMAN (Walter Camp’s 2nd
team)
After his playing days at Notre Dame, Bachman
became a successful head football coach. He spent
13 years as a coach at Michigan State. He played
under Coach Jesse Harper when Knute Rockne
was an assistant coach.
1923—HARVEY BROWN (Walter Camp’s 2nd team)
Brown was Rockne’s first All-American guard. He
was team captain and later a successful physician
in Detroit.
1927—JOHN SMITH (Grantland Rice, All-American
Board, Associated Press, United Press, Interna-
tional News Service, and Newspaper Enterprise
Association)
. Smith was nicknamed “Little Clipper” and was
almost a unanimous choice for All-American hon-
ors.
1929—JACK CANNON (Grantland Rice, All-American
Board, Associated Press, United Press, Interna-
tional News Service, and National Enterprise As-
sociation)
Cannon was one of the speedy pullout guards on
one of Rockne’s great unbeaten teams. He, too,
was almost a unanimous All-American pick.
1930—BERT METZGER (Associated Press, United
Press)
Many will recall Metzger as the famed “watch
charm” guard. He was picked as an All-American
in Rockne’s last season.
1931—NORDY HOFFMAN (Associated Press)	■
Hoffman was the running mate of both Metzger
o	o
and Cannon in previous years and earned All-
American honors as a senior.	>
1936—JOHN LAUTER (United Press)	'
Lauter was the only guard that played under
Elmer Layden, but there were numerous Notre *
Dame candidates for consideration. Included were
two South Bend guards, Joe Ruetz and Joe Ku-
harich.	*
1941—BERNIE CRIMMINS (Grantland Rice, AU-Play-
ers Team)
Crimmins had played one season at right halfback
and one season at fullback before switching to
o
“pulling guard.” When he made the move for
Coach Frank Leahy, he earned All-American hon-
ors for his performance.
1943—PAT FILLEY (Grantland Rice, United Press)
Filley was also from South Bend and was captain
of the team. He was one of four All-Americans on
the national championship team of 1943.
16 NOTRE DAME
1945—JOHN MASTRANGELO (International News
Service)
Mastrangelo was one of the stars of the last war-
time team of 1945. He returned the following year
as All-American when many schools were “loaded”
with returning veterans.
1946—JOHN MASTRANGELO (Grantland Rice, In-
ternational News Service)
1947—BILL FISCHER (Associated Press, United Press,
Football Writers, Newspaper Enterprise Associa-
tion, 1st team; International News Service 2nd
team; Football Coaches 3rd team)
Fischer not only made six All-American teams but
was selected the “outstanding lineman of 1948”
and received the Outland Trophy.
1948—MARTY WENDELL (Football Coaches 1st
team; Football Writers and Grantland Rice com-
bined their choices for Look Magazine starting
in 1948; 2nd team)
Wendell earned his awards at the same time as his
running mate Fischer. It was probably the first time
two guards from the same team were named to
All-America honors.
1948—BILL FISCHER (Associated Press, United Press,
International News Service, All-American Board)
1953—MENIL MAVRAIDES (Paramount News)
Mavraides was a protege of one of Notre Dame’s
great guard coaches, Joe McArdle. He was a kick-
off and extra point specialist.
1955—PAT BISCEGLIA (Associated Press, NBC Tele-
vision 1st team; United Press 3rd team)
Bisceglia was from Massachusetts, like his prede-
cessor Mavraides. The Bay State contributed many
fine guards to Notre Dame teams in recent years.
1957—AL ECUYER (United Press, Sporting News, In-
ternational News Service, Associated Press 2nd
team)
1958—AL ECUYER (United Press, Sporting News, All-
Players, College Sports Editors 1st team)
Ecuyer was a hard hitting, soft talking native of
New Orleans. He captained the team in his senior
year.
I960—MYRON POTTIOS (Time Magazine 1st team)
Pottios captained the Fighting Irish last year and
was an inspiration to his teammates by overcoming
his early season injury to gain national recognition.
Throughout the years, all of Notre Dame’s guards have
displayed rugged and inspired playing ability. Many who
were not All-America selections will be remembered by
avid Notre Dame football followers for making the key
block in a particular game or making an outstanding
tackle in a last minute goal line stand.
In this fall’s season Notre Dame’s opponents will
have to contend with two of the finest guards in the
business. Both Buoniconti and Roy gave excellent per-
formances in past seasons and as captains this year will be
leading Coach Kuharich’s legions—“Onward to Victory.”
Recent star Notre Dame
-J
own special chapter in
the football history
of Notre Dame.
guards include Al
Ecuyer (above), Myron
Pottios (kneeling), and
Ken Adamson (left).
Each has written his
Co-captains Norb Roy (60) and Nick Buoni-
conti (64) with Head Coach Joe Kuharich.

17

“ . . . the pursuit
of excellence . . . ”
DEANS’ ©tTFMOK
The College of Arts and Letters, the oldest
and the largest of the campus colleges, wel-
comed 475 freshmen this September. They will
spend most of the first two years in general
courses of liberal art education, then concen-
trate in the last two years in one of the 13 De-
partmental major programs. . . . The total
enrollment of the College will this year ex-
ceed 2,200, a record for any undergraduate
college in Notre Dame history. . . . More
than two-thirds of all these liberal arts students
To take advantage of the new knowledge
available regarding scientific education in to-
day’s world, the College of Science has begun
a revision of the undergraduate curricula in
the several Departments of the College. . . .
The faculty of the College of Science is being
strengthened by the addition of new members,
among whom are the following: Dr. Thomas
E. Stewart, Assistant Professor of Mathe-
matics; Dr. Ludwig Tewordt, Assistant Pro-
fessor of Physics; Dr. Daniel J. Pasto, As-
The expected enrollment in the College of
Engineering for the academic year 1961-62 will
be approximately 1,450 undergraduate stu-
dents of whom 415 will be incoming Fresh-
men. There will also be 140 graduate stu-
dents. This compares to a total of 1,331 stu-
dents enrolled for the 1960-61 school year. . . .
Dr. Norman R. Gay has assumed his duties
as Dean of the College and will serve as Act-
More than 1300 students will be enrolled
in the College of Commerce this year in-
cluding 300 freshmen. . . . Faculty changes
for the year 1961-62 include the resignation of
Professor Walter Kramer to become Associate
Professor of Transportation at Georgia State
University and the return of Professor Peter
Brady in the Department of Accountancy.
Additions include Edgar Crane, Research As-
sistant Professor in the Department of Market-
ing; James Fremgen, Assistant Professor, the
Department of Accountancy; Yusaku Furu-
hashi, Assistant Professor, Department of

The Notre Dame Law School begins the
1961-62 academic year with a variety of in-
teresting prospects in store. . . . Supreme
Court Justice William O. Douglas will preside
over the court hearing the final argument in
the Annual Moot Court competition early
in October. This will be the sixth consecutive
year in which a member of the Supreme Court
of the United States has presided over the
Notre Dame Court. . . . The president of
the American Bar Association, Mr. John C.
Satterfield, will be the featured speaker at
move into graduate and professional schools
after their baccalaureate program. Many of
them will compete successfully for national
prestige scholarships (Danforth, Woodrow
Wilson, Fulbright, Marshall, etc.), just as
their predecessors have done in record num-
bers. . . . The College of Arts and Letters
is housed in the spacious and beautiful
O’Shaughnessy Hall, which includes the Art
Galleries, and the studios of the Art and
Music students.
sistant Professor of Chemistry; Dr. Robert G.
Hayes, Instructor of Chemistry; Dr. Morris
Pollard, Professor of Biology, Associate Head
of the Department of Biology, and Director
of the Lobund Laboratory. . . . During the
past year, the Department of Preprofessional
Studies in the College of Science was formal-
ized, with Dr. L. H. Baldinger serving as
Head of the Department of Preprofessional
Studies, in addition to being Associate Dean
of the College.
ing Head of the Department of Mechanical
Engineering while Dr. Marcel K. Newman is
on a year’s leave of absence as consultant
to the Arnold Engineering Center at Tulla-
homa, Tennessee. . . . Dr. Harold Ellithom
of the Electrical Engineering Department will
also serve as a consultant to the Hughes
Laboratories in California on leave for the
coming academic year.
Marketing and Leonard J. Kazmier, Assistant
Professor, Business Organization and Manage-
ment Department. ... In the summer, sev-
eral members of the Commerce faculty en-
gaged in activities away from the University
including Dean James W. Culliton, visiting
professor at Harvard University; Thomas T.
Murphy was Acting Dean in his absence.
Others were Raymond P. Kent, visiting pro-
fessor at University of Utah; John Houck,
Ford Fellow at Indiana University; Sherman
Shapiro, Fellow at Merril Center; and Thomas
P. Bergin, NASD Fellow at New York.
the annual Law Honor Banquet next Spring.
In each of the four preceding years, as well,
the Law Honor Banquet has been addressed
by the president of the American Bar Asso-
ciation. . . . For the first time, the annual
Law Scholarship campaign realized the $50,-
000-a-year goal. Many talented students, eager
to study law at Notre Dame would be unable
to do so unless some financial assistance is
available to them and for that reason, the
Scholarship Program was initiated by the
Law School.
ISiQI
18 NOTRE DAME
PEACE CORPS VOLUNTEERS
(Continued from page 11)
it will be carried out alongside young Chilean teachers
and workers in the dozen or more schools and centers
which the Institute of Rural Education has established
in the long central valley of Chile stretching for more
than 600 miles southward from Santiago. Our Volun-
teers will be assigned to these various places in small
groups of from two to perhaps six, the assignments nat-
urally depending upon the particular skills of the Vol-
unteers and the needs of the location.
It is expected that our personnel with its variety of
training and abilities will contribute handsomely to the
work of the Institute in such things as personal hygiene
and sanitation, cleanliness in the home, child care, sew-
ing, cooking, public health, nursing, group recreation,
light carpentry, improved agricultural methods and
yields, raising of small animals, forestry, nutrition, ele-
mentary education, and radio education (which indeed
may later become a much more important aspect of our
work).
It must be pointed out that all who are entrusted
with the administration and supervision of the Chilean
Peace Corps Project are fully aware of the possible pit-
falls in this operation. We realize that inadequate train-
ing or direction of our Volunteers could result in impru-
dent blunders which not only might cause the Project
to be judged a failure but also might bring serious dis-
credit upon our own group, the Institute of Rural Edu-
cation, Notre Dame and the entire Indiana Conference
of Higher Education, the Peace Corps, and the United
States.
This means only that we have a great responsibility
as well as a challenge worthy of our very best and an
opportunity for good that is positively awesome. The
desire, willingness, determination, and dedication being
displayed by the Volunteers are more than enough to
warm the heart of any man of good will and Christian
charity. There is no doubt in mind that these young
people will go down to Chile and get the job done in a
manner that will do credit to all concerned.
The least I can assure you is that we will give it all
we have. If we can also count on the prayers of the
Notre Dame family I know I can say “We’ve got it
made.”
NOTRE DAME NEWS
(Continued from page 2)
organizations as: the Air Force Electronics Systems Division;
the National Science Foundation; the Indiana Heart Founda-
tion; the Allen County Cancer Society; the Office of Naval
Research; the Von Kohom International Corporation; the
Social Security Administration; the Ford Motor Company and
the Atomic Energy Commission.
Paintings by Everett McNear will be exhibited in the
University of Notre Dame art gallery from October 8 to
November 5 according to Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C.,
head of the University Department of Art.
The Department of State, Washington, D. C. announced
that Dr. Alvan S. Ryan, associate professor of English at the
University of Notre Dame has been awarded a Fulbright
grant to lecture at the University of Saarbruecken in Germany.
CREDITS
Rev. Thomas T.
McAvoy, C.S.C.
Father McAvoy, former head of
the Department of History, is archi-
vist at the University of Notre Dame
and an authority on the history of
the Catholic Church in the United
States. He is the author of The
Great Crisis in American Catholic
History, 1895-1900 published in
1957. In addition to his other duties,
Father McAvoy is also managing
editor of The Review of Politics,
published by the University.
Charles M. Callahan
Charlie Callahan has been Direc-
tor of Sports Publicity at Notre
Dame since 1946. He is a graduate
of Notre Dame and a member of
the Board of Directors of the Na-
tional Football Hall of Fame. His
outstanding publicity work has
earned national recognition with an
award from the Helms Athletic
Foundation and two awards from
the Football Writers’ of America.
Walter M. Langford
Professor Langford has been a
member of the Notre Dame faculty
for 30 years. In 1959 he received
the University’s Lay Faculty Award,
presented annually to a professor
who has rendered distinguished serv-
ice to the University. He is a special-
ist in Latin American literature, and
also teaches courses in Portugese
and Latin American history. He is
a former coach of the Notre Dame
tennis team and has been fencing
coach for 19 years.
Bro. Rapheal
Wilson, C.S.C.
Brother Raphael is an assistant
professor of Biology at the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame and a spe-
cialist in Virology. He has been a
member of the faculty since 1959.
Prior to teaching at Notre Dame,
he was associated with St. Edward’s
University, Austin, Texas, for 11
years. Brother Raphael has con-
tributed articles to several profes-
sional journals.
PHOTOGRAPHS—M. Bruce Harlan, Chief Pho-
tographer, University of Notre Dame; Page 11—Roger
Baele, South Bend Tribune; Page 15—Ernest Borror.
19
9

Edward Jo Tracey, Jr
State
notrc Dame's
c
«
■ A, f >v«<H
i
STODEHT
AB
$2.00,000
RW
$500,000
o’
Box 436
College, Pa





GuALBAn:
4LESDDEHCE HALLS
SAQWOQ
Notre Dame is building for the future. It has
the responsibility to educate young men for tomorrow’s
world — a world filled with demands and challenges
that no one today can clearly foresee. To prepare its
students to meet these challenges, Notre Dame must pro-
vide the latest and best in ideas and facilities to mold
these young minds for future leadership. Excellence is
the keynote of Notre Dame’s Program for the Future!
Because of a special matching gift program
initiated by the Ford Foundation, Notre Dame is one of
a few leading universities in the nation which will receive
$1 for every $2 donated by alumni and friends of the
University over a three-year period. This means the
impact of your gift, whether large or small, will be 50%
greater, thanks to the generosity of the Ford Foundation’s
matching gift program.
Rv * ij-V
f. k '<
Notre Dame depends exclusively on its alumni
and its many friends for its support. Loyalty and devo-
tion to the University and the principles it exemplifies
are needed now more than ever before because of this
extraordinary Challenge Program, which is vital to Notre
Dame's continuing growth and development.
May we please count on your help?
For additional information please address:
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION
Notre Dame, Indiana
v*
,&
4:L‘