BLOCH GIVES NIEUWLAND LECTURES
Dr. Konrad Bloch, who won the 1964 Nobel Prize
for Medicine and Physiology, delivered a series of three
Julius A. Nieuwland Lectures in the University of Notre
Dame’s department of chemistry in November.
Bloch, who is Higgins Professor of Biochemistry at
Harvard University, spoke on the general subject, “Enzy-
matic Mechanisms in the Biosynthesis of Some Natural
Products.” He is a member of the National Academy of
Sciences, a fellow of the American Academy of Sciences
and holds the Fritzsche Award of the American Chemical
Society.
MOOT COURT FINALS HELD
Chief Judge John S. Hastings of the U. S. Court of
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, Chicago, Ill., and two
other federal judges presided at the final round of the
Notre Dame Law School’s annual Moot Court Com-
petition Nov. 6.
Joining Judge Hastings on the bench were Judges
A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., of the U. S. District Court
for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
and George Edwards of the U. S. Court of Appeals for
the Sixth Circuit, Detroit, Mich.
The student finalists, all third-year law students at
Notre Dame were Joseph S. Maxwell, Glenside, Pa.;
Thomas J. McNally, Covington, Ky.; Robert A. Murphy,
Lawrence, Mass.; and Robert M. Schmiege, LaGrange,
Ill. Maxwell and Schmiege are Notre Dame graduates.
McNally and Murphy took their undergraduate work at
Villa Madonna College and Villanova University,
respectively.
PRESS PUBLISHES LITERATURE VOLUME
Scholarly works dealing with the literature of the
Middle English period and Saint Thomas Aquinas’
treatise on being and essence have just been published
here by the University of Notre Dame Press.
Dr. Edward Vasta, assistant professor of English at
Notre Dame, is editor of Middle English Survey, a collec-
tion of fifteen critical essays devoted to the major works
and genre of the period. Dr. Joseph Bobik, associate
professor of philosophy, is the author of Aquinas on
Being and Essence, the first English commentary on the
celebrated philosopher’s well-known work.
HARTFORD FOUNDATION GIVES $181,005 GRANT
The University of Notre Dame has received a $181,-
005 grant from the John A. Hartford Foundation, Inc.,
of New York City, for “Studies on Natural Resistance in
Carcinogenesis and in Experimental Surgery with Germ-
free Rodents.”
The University’s Lobund Laboratory, which pioneered
in the development of the germfree rodent and in its use
in medical and biological investigations, will conduct a
three-year study dealing with natural resistance to cancer
formation and tissue transplantation.
VATICAN II CONFERENCE PLANNED
In November, the University of Notre Dame an-
nounced it had invited 250 Catholic, Protestant, Ortho-
dox and Jewish theologians and religious leaders in the
United States and Canada to participate in an interna-
tional conference on “The Main Theological Issues of
Vatican II” to be held on the campus March 20-26, 1966.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame
president, who disclosed plans for the conference last
July, said 24 Council Fathers and theologians from this
country and abroad will present papers or preside during
sessions of the week-long parley. Several non-Catholic
scholars also will appear on the program of the confer-
ence which, he said, “will explore the implications of the
final results of the Council and draw out their influence
on Christian faith in the years ahead.”
TRUSTEESHIP TO WALDMAN
The Universities Research Association, Inc. (URAI),
a group of 34 institutions including the University of
Notre Dame, announced recently in Washington that it
has offered its services to the federal government as con-
tracting agency for the construction and operation of a
proposed particle accelerator in the 200-billion-electron
volt range.
The Association also announced the election of Dr.
Bernard Waldman, professor of physics and associate dean
of the College of Science at Notre Dame, as one of the
organization’s 15 regional trustees.
JANOWSKI NAMED PUBLICATIONS HEAD
The appointment of John H. Janowski to the newly
created post of director of publications at the University
of Notre Dame was announced in October by James W.
Frick, vice president for public relations and development.
Janowski, whose appointment is effective immediately,
has been editor of Notre Dame since 1961. He will
relinquish the editorship to John Thurin January 1.
(Continued on page 18)
• EDITOR: JOHN H. JANOWSKI
2 NOTRE DAME
NOTRE DAME VOL. 18, No. 4, WINTER, 1965
Published quarterly by the University of Notre
Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second
class matter May 10, 1928, at Post Office at Notre
Dame, Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.
Schools of Business are exciting places today and
Notre Dame’s College of Business Administration is truly
a very active institution. Students and faculty alike are
challenged by new developments and continually mo-
tivated toward high quality scholarship by the ever-in-
creasing demands for scientific management.
Only six years ago two major analyses of business
schools, financed by Carnegie and Ford Foundations, and
prepared by Professor Pierson and Professors Gordon
and Howell, respectively, concluded that academic stan-
dards were too low in most business schools, that admission
standards were too low, and that most schools did not
offer rigorous programs. Many more detailed criticisms
were leveled, all of them justified by performance stan-
dards about the nation.
IMPROVEMENTS BEGAN LONG AGO
It is fair to say that at Notre Dame major improve-
ments had begun long before the studies were published
in 1959. Experimentation, for lack of which business
schools were seriously criticized, had begun on a broad
front at Notre Dame in early years of the 1950’s. An ex-
I	ample was the “Program for Administrators,” a limited
|	enrollment, highly analytical and integrated curriculum
[	for a group of 50 students a year. This program was one
|	that experimented by ignoring old course labels and sub-
stituting courses and programs that followed an inventory-
of-knowledge-and-skill concept to the education-for-busi-
ness field. The lessons learned from such experimentation
were woven back into the total program and can be
credited for providing new strength to curricula in the
College of Business Administration.
During the same period departments of the College
:	were encouraged to rethink their offerings and slash their
proliferations of subject matter into courses. Some results
were immediate—many areas were strengthened by the
I	development of very rigorous course offerings.
I
PROGRAM CHANGES ARE CONTINUOUS
Rethinking of programs today is not a once-a-decade
event; it is continuous. The faculty thinks in terms of
course and program rigor, of the full preparation of
the student for industry or professional or law school.
।	Lack of rigor of program cannot be charged with serious-
'	ness today at Notre Dame’s College of Business Admin-
i	istration. From the day the sophomore enters the business
j	school he is impressed with seriousness of purpose, with
!	the breadth of formal preparation that modern business
(	demands of its leaders. There is no time to waste—the
I	demands are far greater than the three years of study
provide for—the result is that today’s motivated student
seeks to maximize the educational opportunity the College
provides.
A word about today’s academic counseling program
for business students is in order. This is a three-pronged
program that begins with a special program of counseling,
under the direction of Assistant Dean Malone, for all
sophomores. Beginning with the junior year and extending
to graduation the Department Heads supervise counsel-
ing by all the faculty of the College, each of whom is
responsible for the counseling of about twenty students
over the upper two years. A third phase of academic
counseling is that connected with choice of graduate or
I
A^w^U+zudixnu

law school by business
students. One faculty member

If
A

a
4
i
'I
-a
devotes considerable time to counseling and advising these
juniors and seniors.
Today approximately 40% of the graduates of the
College go on to further schooling, the majority going to
graduate schools of business and law schools. It is a tribute
to the business school that more than twenty-five leading
graduate business schools recruit regularly at Notre Dame.
For the past several years Notre Dame has been among
the top three suppliers of graduate students at the univer-
sities of Chicago, Pennsylvania, Pittsburgh, and Columbia.
As well, our graduates are well represented at Harvard,
University of California, Indiana, New York University,
Ohio State, Michigan, Stanford, and many others.
Notable changes in program in recent years include
greater emphasis upon quantitative aspects of business.
Like other business schools, Notre Dame has always
stressed the importance of accounting and statistics as
quantitative “tools” of business. In the past two decades,
however, more powerful quantitative tools have found
their place in business education. The development of
what we apply the terms operations research or manage-
ment science has been very rapid. The electronic computer
has, of course, spearheaded the advancement toward rapid
computation, storage, and retrieval of quantitative data.
And the University provides one of the world’s largest
and fastest computers, the Univac 1107.
At Notre Dame all business students now take a year
of Mathematics, another year of Statistics and Quantita-
tive Methods, and optional courses in Operations Re-
search (a 4-course combination), Data Processing, and
Computer Science. Application of computer technology to
business decision-making finds emphasis in all depart-
ments. Examples include business, marketing, and pur-
chasing games in the Marketing Department and com-
puterizing of investment data in the selection process
for portfolio development in the Finance Department.
Students of business and its organization are today
devoting- considerable attention to human behavior and
to communications theory. There has been progress in
quantitative measurements of behavior and the develop-
ment of patterns useful to organizational theory. Observa-
tion and analysis of behavior have contributed to the
suspected complexity of the area and have, as well,
challenged combinations of creative research by business
educators, sociologists, social psychologists, and cultural
anthropologists. The challenges in this area are great. So,
too, are the emerging research challenges, in the applica-
tion of the growing body of communications theory to the
organizational complexities of business. Developments in
these closely related areas of exploration are under way
at Notre Dame.
Alumni will remember the earlier name of the College
of Business Administration as the Edmund N. Hurley
College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce. (The name
was changed in 1961.) In the early years of the school
much attention was focused on foreign commerce as the
name implied. The depression years of the 193O’s placed
more emphasis on domestic than foreign commerce and,
consequently, foreign commerce declined in program and
student emphasis. Again in the 195O’s, however, business
schools began devoting attention to international business.
Notre Dame offers courses today in International Market-

^HaBt***"*^
Dean Thomas T. Murphy and Prof. Salvatore Bella
discuss the College of Business Administration’s
Supervisory Development Program.

Members of the Business Administration faculty
participate in a special Operations Research Seminar
held during the summer of 1965.
i
s|
• I
I
'tmkmm
T7*
U*-- .' ^*440;

ing and International Economic Policy. As well, the world
outlook is encouraged in all professional courses of the
College. A year ago a new chapter of the international
student organization, AIESEC, was begun on campus.
As a result of the activities of AIESEC, seven students
of the College of Business Administration worked for
eight weeks each in Europe this past summer. The group
is aiming at twenty work-experiences abroad in the sum-
mer of 1966. Also of interest to the expanding role of
international business in the College is Dean Murphy’s
recent appointment by Secretary John Connor to the Ex-
port Expansion Council of the United States Department
of Commerce.
Faculty development is a major activity of colleges
of business administration today. The fast tempo of
change requires continuing study of the various areas and
functions of business that add up to an integrated ap-
proach in both teaching and research. In September,
1965, eighteen members of the College faculty and two
members of the A. B. Economics faculty, joined together
in a two-week seminar on Operations Research. Seminar
leader was Dr. John J. Kennedy, Marketing Department
Head. The Dean is planning a seminar for next September
in the area of Behavioral Science. Members of the business
faculty participate in faculty workshops in other institu-
tions each year. During the 1964 and 1965 summers, Busi-
ness faculty have joined colleagues from other institutions
in seminars at Case (Father Heppen), Carnegie and
Berkeley (Dr. Crane), Tulane (Professor Brady), New
York University (Dr. Furuhashi), Harvard (Dr. Bon-
wich), Michigan (Dr. Malone). This activity provides
several men each summer with the opportunity of group
or individual research with other specialists in various
functional areas of business.
Visiting lecturers, symposia, and academic society
meetings are an important part of the educational struc-
ture at Notre Dame. This year the College of Business
Administration was host to schools and departments of
business from the nine states of the Mid-Continent region
of the American Association of Collegiate Schools of
Business, the accrediting agency for business schools of
which Notre Dame is a fully accredited member. Ten
papers were presented at this two-day conference.
Luncheon speaker was Dean John Barr of Northwestern
University and dinner speaker was Dean Charles Dirksen,
A.A.C.S.B. President, from the University of Santa Clara.
The 1965-66 O’Hara Lecture Series includes Robert C.
Four student members of AIESEC discuss
plans for work overseas next summer.
Weaver, Administrator of Housing and Home Finance
Agency; J. E. Wolfe, Chairman of the National Railway
Labor Conference; Dean Richard M. Cyert of Carnegie
Institute of Technology; Lee Loevinger of the Federal
Communications Commission; and Isaiah Frank, Interna-
tional Economics Professor at Johns Hopkins University.
The Marketing Department has scheduled a Retailing-
Marketing series of lectures that is presenting four presi-
dents of leading clothing manufacturers over the first
semester.
The research function in schools of business is receiv-
ing strong administrative encouragement today. Changing
economic circumstances since the end of the Second
World War have increased business complexity; this has
made research an urgent part of the educative process.
Comprehensive inquiry has attracted the active intellects
of business educators and of educators in social sciences
peripheral to business. Today we find business, with its
many facets of interest and exploration, a highly fruitful
area for research. And research activity is strong in the
College of Business Administration. Seven books have
been or are scheduled to be published in the current
academic year. Twenty-seven articles have been published
and a number of others are scheduled for early
pubheation.
Student organizations continue to add to the academic
life of the College. Besides AIESEC, previously men-
tioned, the Commerce Forum, Finance Club, and Man-
agement Club comprise the independent professional
organizations. Each of these organizations provides an
annual field trip. As well, the Finance Club sponsors an
annual two-day Finance Forum on campus where leading
(Continued on page 18)
Newly elected members of the Notre Dame
chapter of Beta Gamma Sigma, national
business honorary society.
Students participating in the Finance Research
Seminar work with UNIVAC 1107 in the
University’s Computing Center.
J£_
GIFT
YOU
c
DOLLAR f
MATCHING
YOUR
EMPLOYER

Over 275 American companies now have Matching Gift
Programs to assist Notre Dame. These companies listed will
match — usually dollar for dollar — your contribution to Notre
Dame. In many instances, you do not have to be a graduate in
order to be eligible for this program.
These companies will match cash payments on pledges, gifts
of securities or outright gifts, if you notify them that such a
donation has been made. This is done by completing a brief
form provided by your employer and mailing the entire form
to Notre Dame. The University then certifies receipt of this
gift and returns the form to your company. The company will
then remit the proper amount to the University.
If you have already made a gift in 1965 and did not notify
your company, check to see if your gift will be matched.
Remember, you are the reason for these Matching Gift
Programs. Take advantage of them. Your employer is offering
support to Notre Dame in recognition of the contribution you,
as an educated person, are making to your company.
Some companies will match gifts made by members of the
Board of Directors.
%



a
Detailed information on your company’s plan may be
obtained by consulting with your Personnel Department
or writing:
Dennis F. Troester,
Foundation Office,
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556
6 NOTRE DAME
*	. ‘	-	••	•	*	?	• •/	•	t T • t	*

---------
The companies marked by an
asterisk made Matching Gifts
to Notre Dame during 1964
and 1965. In the past year and
a half, the University has re-
ceived over $58,000 in Match-
ing Gifts. A total of 734
gifts were matched by 127
companies.
The Ford Motor Company
matched 97 gifts with $17,313.
This Company donates $2.00
for every dollar given by an
employee up to $1,000. From
$1,000 to $5,000, the gift is
matched on a one-for-one basis.
General Electric Company
matched 299 gifts to Notre
Dame for a total of $7,272.00
KEY
I	TO THE
!	LISTING
»	Since some programs have
provisions which limit partici-
'	pation to specific levels or kinds
of institutions, these provisions
1	are listed in the parentheses
■	following the name of the com-
1	pany. In other cases, persons
other than alumni are eligible
to have	their gifts	matched.
I	This information is	likewise
।	contained	in the parentheses.
The parentheses are coded as
|	follows:
I	1:	•
j	Four-year colleges and uni-
versities are eligible
2:	.
Graduate and professional
schools are eligible
3:	. .
Junior colleges are eligible
'	4:
Independent secondary schools
are eligible
all:
All four of the above are
eligible
epa:
Program excludes publicly-
assisted institutions
Ipa:
Limited program for publicly-
assisted institutions; percent-
age of public support or
capital gifts may be re-
stricted; regular program for
private institutions
epr:
Program excludes private in-
stitutions
lim:
Program is informal or re-
stricted to a limited number
of specified institutions
n-a:
Will match gifts of non-
alumni
SP:	...
Companies which will match
gifts of spouse of eligible
employee
sp-w:
Companies which will match
gifts of wife of eligible em-
ployee
Cerro Corp, (all; n-a)	.
:fc Chase Manhattan Bank (all; n-a)
* Chemical Bank N.Y. Trust Co. (a’l)
* Chicopee Manufacturing Co. (1,2; n-a)
* Chrysler Corp. (1,2,3; sp)
Citizens &‘Southern National Bank (all; n-a)
. * Cleveland Electric Illuminating Co. (all; n-a)
* Clevite Corp. (1(2.4; epa; n-a)
James B. Clow & Sons, Inc. (all; n-a)
Coats & Clark Inc. (all; n-a)
_ Colonial Parking, Inc. (1; n-a)
Columbian Carbon Co. (1,2; epa: sp)
Columbus Mutual Life Ins. Co. (all; sp; n-a)
t Combustion Engineering (1,2,3)
Commercial Solvents, Inc. (all; n-a) ‘.
* Conn. General Life Ins. Co. (1,2; epa; n-a)
Conn. Light & Power Co (1.2. Ipa. n-a)
•	-1’ Conn. Mutual Life Ins. Co. (1,3; epa: n-a)
-	Consolidation Coal Co. (1)
*	Consumers Power Co. (1,3; n-a)
■ Container Corp, of America (all; Ipa; n-a)
' Continental Can Co., Inc. (1.2)	'
The Continental Ins. Cos. (1.2 3; n-a)
*	Continental Oil Co. (1,2) ...
'Cook Foundation, Conp. (all)
*	Copley Newspapers (all)
-	Corn Products Co. (I, n-a'
;	* Corning Glass Works Co. (all; n-a)
i.	Crouse-Hinds Co. (12.3)
; Deering Milliken, Inc. (1,2,4; epa; n-a)
'J	Diamond Alkali Co. (1,2.3; n-a)
• Diamond Crystal Salt Co. (1,2; n-a)
4, A. B. Dick Co. (1,2,3; n-a)
v * Dov/ Chemical Co. (1,2; n-a)
J - Dow Corning Corp. (1.2: n-a) ''
• Draper Corp. (1,2,4)
’ Dresser Industries, Inc. (1.2; n-a) .
, Wilbur B. Driver Co. '1 2 3, n-a)
’ Eastern Gas & Fuel Associates '1,2,3: n a)'
Vc Easton Car & Construction (1,2; epa)
* Ebasco Services. Inc. (1,2)
• Electric Bond & Share Co dim-
' Ensign-Bickford Co. (all; n-a)
•	* Esso Education Foundation (1,2.3: n-a)
Ex-Cell-0 Corp. (1; n-a)	.
■ Fafnir Bearing Co. (1,2)
.	Ferro Corp <1.2. na'	'
*	Firemen's Mutual Ins. 6d. (1,2: n-a) "
First Nat Bank of Hawaii (lim)
‘	* Ford Motor Co. (all: n-a)
? ' Ford Motor Co. of Canada, Ltd 'all. n-a)
*	Forty-Eight Insulations, Inc.	(all)
E & J Gallo Winery (1,2,3)
*•	Gardner-Denver Co. (1. n-a)
'	General Atronics Corp. (1,2,3;	n-a)
- General Electric Co. '1.2,3)
♦ General Foods Corp, (all; sp; n-a)
General Foods Limited (1.2: sp. n a)
* General Mills,' Inc. (1,2,3; n-a)
General Puohc Utilities Corp, fall n-a<
M A Gesner of Illinois. Inc. 'all; n-a)
Gibbs & Hill, Inc. (lim)
■ ’ Ginn & Co. (1.2)
Girard .Trust Bank (1.2: n-a)
* Glidden Co., Ohio (1,2,3;
B. F. Goodrich Co. (all; n-a) ,
* W. -T. Grant Co. (1,2; n-a)
: The Griswold-Eshleman Co. (1)'
Gjardian Life Ins. Co. H.2.3. epa. sp. n.al
Gulf Oil Corp. (1; n-a)
Gulf States Utilities Co 'ail n-al
Harris-lntertype Corp. (1,2A n-a)
Harsco Corp. (l-,2; Ipa; n-a)
Hawaiian Telephone Co. (lim)
* Hercules Powder Co. (1,2; n-a)

►
Hewlett-Packard Co. (1,2; n-a)
Hill Acme Co.,-Ohio (1,2; epa: n-a)
Hoffman-La Roche, Inc. (all; n-a)
Honeywell, Inc. (1,2; n-a)
Hooker Chemical Corp. (1,2,3; n-a) •
4
J

■ J. M. Huber Corp, (all; sp; n-a) ■
* Hughes Aircraft. Co. (all) ■	'	’
* Insurance Co. of North America (all; Ipa; sp; n-a) •
■ International Bus. Machines Corp. (1,2,3; n-a)
International Tel. & Tel. Corp. (1,2,3; n-a)
Jefferson Mills, Inc. (lim) •
Jefferson Standard Life Ins. Co. (all; n-a) ...
* Jewel Tea Co. (1,2,3; n-a)	,
* Johnson &-Higgins (1,2,3; epa; n-a) .
:!'•
*
*
*
*
*
j
Johnson & Johnson (all; n-a)	>
S. C?John^ & Son, Inc. (1,2; n-a) J
Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp. (1,2; epa). *
Kaiser Steel Corp. (1,2: n-a) ■	*
The Kendall Company (1,2)	- TV
Kern County Land Co, (1,2,3)
Walten*Kidde & Co. (1;2)	*	.
Walter Kidde Constructors (1,2)
Kidder, Peabody & Co. (lim)
Kimberly-Clark Corp. (1,2,3)	•
Kingsbury Machine Tool Corp, (all; sp) _
Richard C. Knight Ins. Agency, Inc. (all; epa; sp}
H. Kohnstamm & Co., Inc. (all; n-a) •'
Lehigh Portland Cement Co. (1,2) - .	■
JLever Brothers Co. (1,2,3; n-a) **
P. Lorillard Co. (1,2,4; n-a) ’	.
Lubrizol Corp. (1,2,3; sp,- n-a) . '
Lummus Co. (1,2)	.
Lustra Plastics Corp. (1)	.
3
Mallinckrodt Chemical Works (l,2,3;-epa; n-a) • T
* P. R. Mallory & Co., Inc. (all; n-a)> * ;
* ’Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. (all; n-a) ,
Marathon Oil Co; (1,2,3; n-a) ",
Marine Midland Trust Co. of N.Y,. (1; epa; sp; n;a) .
*	Mass. Mutual Life Ins. Co. (1,2,3; n-aj?	.•
Matalene Surgical Instruments Co. (1,4; epa) '
*	Maytag Co. (1; n-a)	. '	. /!
■ McCormick & Co., Inc. (1,2,3)	;	• A
' * McGraw-Hill, Inc. (all; n-a)	., J - . ’i
Medusa Portland Cement Co. (1,2; n-a) . ’ '	J
*	Mellon Nat. Bank & Trust Co. (1,2) *	. T ]
*	Merck & Co., Inc. (all; n-a) I *	.1
*	- M. & T. Chemicals Inc. (1,2,3)	1 ' -	* . , J
Middlesex Mutual Assurance Co. (1,2,3; n-a).	. ■: -j
*	• Midland-Ross Corp. (1,2; n-a) - • - ‘
Miehle-Goss-Dexter, Inc. (1,2,3: epa; n-a) . '	:
" ’ Monticello life Ins. Co. (all; n-a) . . \
*	Motorola Found. (1)	.	;	-/ 4 |L
•	* Mutual Boiler & Machinery Ins. Co. (all) . .	;
- Mutual of Omaha-United of Omaha (1,2,3; sp; n-a) . ■ J
■ National Biscuit Co. (1.2,3: sp; n-a)	? T
•” National Cash Register Co. (1,2,3: sp; n-a)	. ,j
* National Distillers & Chemical Corp, (all; n-a) T ’	;;
* National Lead Co. (all; n-a)	' ( u
* Natural Gas Pipeline Co. of America (1,2,3) .
New England Gas/Electric Assoc. Sys. (1,2; n-a) _'
New England Merchants Nat. Bank (1,2; epa)	•’
New England Mutual Life Ins. Co. (1,2,3; n-a) ‘
Newhall Land and Farming Co. (1,2,3)	.	- - . ?
* Norton Co.. Mass.’ (all; n’-a)	.	„ '
* John Nuveen & Co. (1,2)	»	.
Oklahoma Gas & Electric Co. (1,2; sp-w) u ?


111^^
as®.
■
$
Science Symposium Held
4; e
orthington Corp. (1.2; n-a)
/arncr-Lambert Pharmaceutical Co.
/ashingion Nat Ins Go (1.2,3: 0 3.'
/atkins-Johnson Co. (1,2)
harles J. Webb Sons Co., Inc 'all: n
I'estem Publishing Co. .1.2,3: n-a)
/estinghouse Air Brake Co. '1.2i
Whirlpool Corp. (all. n-a'
ohn Wiley & Sons, Irie. (1,2.3: n-a)
/illiams & Co.. Penn. (1,2,3)
nited llluminanni
nited States Tru
.n Co. (all; n-
Borax il,2, e,
arian Associates T ,2: n-<
'ictaulic Co. of America ■
/all'ace & Tiernan. Inc. ■!
/arner Brothers Co. Con
rans-World Airlines =1,2.3. n
ravelers Insurance Compani
urner Construction Co (1.2'.
a
e
C
efeller Brothers Fund,
Rockefeller, Offic
A Rockwell Manufai
iockwell-Standan
lust Engineering
inborn Co. (1,2;
ichering Corp, (a
cott
Paper Co.
Seagra
mon Oil Co of (
nited Cay Mme

4


The impact of science on society during the past one
hundred years and its likely influence during the century
ahead was explored at a University of Notre Dame
symposium December 2-4.
Scholars from ten universities participated in the
symposium on “Science and Contemporary Society,”
the final event in a year-long observance of Notre Dame’s
Centennial of Science. They examined the interaction of
science and literature, philosophy, religion, education and
international affairs and its potential for the future of
mankind.
Dr. Frederick J. Crosson, symposium chairman, noted
the tremendous growth in science. “More important,
however,” he said, “has been its influence on the human'
ities, religion and society and its emergence as a distinc
—

five cultural force. Not only the physical well-being of
man but also his whole cultural life is now inextricably
bound up with the progress of science.”
The Notre Dame symposium opened with a pref-
atory lecture by Prof. Michael Crowe on “Science in
the 1860’s” in the Memorial Library auditorium Dec.
2.
in
Crowe, a Notre Dame faculty member, is a specialist
the history of science. The evening- program included
a concert by the Renaissance String Quartet of New York
City.
Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of the University
College of Arts and Letters, presided at the formal
opening of the symposium December 3 at 9 a.m. Its
theme was “A Century in Retrospect,” and the speakers
were Prof. Elizabeth Sewell, of Newnham College,
Cambridge, England, “Science and Literature,” and
Prof. Richard McKeon of the University of Chicago,
“Science and Philosophy.”
The symposium continued at 2 p.m. with papers by
Prof. Erwin Hiebert of the University of Wisconsin, cur-
rently a visiting professor at Harvard, “Science and
Religion,” and Prof. Ludwig Audreith of the University
of Illinois, “Science and International Affairs: Retro-
spect and Prospect.”
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame
president and a member of the National Science Board,
addressed a symposium dinner at The Morris Inn, Dec. 3
at 7 p.m.
“A Century in Prospect” was the theme of the
(Continued on page 18)
t

farwiw

8
NOTRE DAME
IRISH
7-2-1
for
1965
All-American Nick Rassas returns an interception for a
touchdown against Northwestern.
THE ERA OF ARA CONTINUES
UNDER THE GOLDEN DOME
1965 FINAL
STATISTICS
TEAM STATISTICS
N.D.	OPP.
270 ........ POINTS	SCORED -------  73
172 ........ FIRST	DOWNS ......... 114
128 .........  by	Rushing ------    54
35	    by	Passing .......  56
9	 by	Penalties........  4
2147 ......- YARDS RUSHING ....... 754
566 ....... TIMES CARRIED ......   389
3 79 ........ Yards-per-try ----- 1.94
850  ...... YARDS PASSING ------- 1190
118 .......— Passes Attempted .... 209
53 .......... Passes Completed     106
.449 ... Completion Percentage ..— .507
18	....... Passes Intercepted by . 10
229 ....... Yards Int. Returned .  117
3007 ...... TOTAL OFFENSE ......  1944
51	  PUNTS	  73
2049 ........ Total Yards ....... 2887
39.4 ..........  Average	   39.5
468 ....... Yards Punts Returned . 196
21 ............ FUMBLES	   26
12	........... Ball Lost ........  13
329 ......... Yards Penalized ..   403
SCORING
PLAYER Bill Wolski 		TD 	 8	FG-Att. PAT-Att.		TP 52
		0	4-runs	
Ken Ivan 				 0	7-12	27-31	48
Larry Conjar 			 7	0	0	42
Nick Eddy			 6	0	0	36
Nick Rassas 			  4	0	0	24
Bill Zloch 				  3	0	0	18
Rocky Bleier 			 2	0	0	12
Don Gmitter 				 2	0	0	12
Paul May 			 2	0	0	12
Denny Conway ...		 1	0	0	6
Dan Harshman ...		 1	0	0	6
Tom Talaga 			 0	0	2-pass	2
ND TOTALS .....		 36	7-13	33	270
OPP. TOTALS ...		 11	1	4	73
PASS RECEIVING					PUNT RETURNS		
PLAYER	NO.	YARDS AVG.			TD	PLAYER	NO. YARDS AVG.	TD
Nick Eddy 	 Phil Sheridan ... Don Gmitter .... Mike Heaton .. Larry Conjar - Tom Talaga 		 Rocky Bleier .... Dan Harshman Pete Andreotti	...... 13 	 10 ..... 6 	 4 	 4 	 4 		 3 ..... 2 	 2 	 2		233 140 155 74 55 49 42 39 29 —3	18.0 14.0 25.5 18.5 13.8 12.3 14.0 19.5 14.5 —1.3	2 0 9 0 0 0 0 0 0 0	Nick Rassas    24	459	19.1	3 Jim Smithberger .... 1	9	9.0	0 DEFENSIVE STATISTICS TACKLES: Jim Lynch 108; Pete Duranko 95; Mike McGill 88; John Horney 77; Tom Longo 73; Dave Martin 70; Nick Rassas 53; Harry Long 38 Dick Arrington 36; Tony Carey and Tom O’Leary 34; Alan Page 30; Tom Rhoads 29; Anmas Vasys 22; Harry Alexander 16; John Pergine 15; Tom Regrer 13; Jim Ryan 12; Ron Jeziorski 11; Gerald Kelly 9; Bill Wolski 7; Don Gmitter, Kevin Hardy, Allan Sack, and Jim Smithberger 6; Ken Ivan, Rudy Konieczny, and Tom Sullivan 3; Nick Eddy, Dan Harshman, Mike Heaton, Mike Kuzmicz, Bob Meeker, and Dick Swatland 2; Rocky Bleier, Larry Conjar, Tom Schoen, Tom Talaga, Alan VanHuffel, and Mike Wadsworth 1.	
Bill Zloch 	 Bill Wolski ...... Tom Schoen .... PLAYER Dan McGinn ....	......	1	31	31.0 		 1	8	8.0 ......	1	1	1.0 PUNTING NO. YARDS 	 51	2011				0 0 0 AVG. 39.4		
PLAYER	RUSHING TC			YARDS	AVG.	PASSES BROKEN UP: Mike McGill 6; Jim Lynch, Tony Carey, Nick Rassas, and Tom Rhoads 3; Tom Longo 2; Harry Long, Tom O’Leary, Alan Page, Jim Smithberger, and Alan VanHuffel 1.	
Nick Eddy 	 115	582 Larry Conjar 		 137	535 Bill Wolski 	 103	452 Bill Zloch 	 78	162 Rocky Bleier 	 26	145 Paul May		 30	123 Tom Schoen 	 35	81 Dan Harshman 	— 19	60 Pete Andreotti 	 20	48 Denny Conway 	 1	2 Dan McGinn 	   1	—9 KICKOFF RETURNS PLAYER	NO. YARDS					5.1 3.9 4.4 2.1 5.6 4.1 2.3 3.2 2.4 2.0 AVG.	OPPONENTS’ FUMBLES RECOVERED: John Horney, Alan Page, and Allen Sack 2; Tony Carey, Don Gmitter, Harry Long, Tom Longo, Mike McGill, and Arunas Vasys 1. PASSES INTERCEPTED PLAYER	NO.	YARDS	TD Nick Rassas 			 6	197	1 Tom Longo .....................	 4	7	0 Tony Carey 	..	   3	9	0 Mike McGill 	 2	10 Jim Lynch 	 1	8	0 Tom Rhoads 	 1	4	0 Dave Martin 		 1	3	0	
Bill Wolski 	 Nick Rassas 	 Nick Eddy 	 Pete Andreotti . Dan Harshman . Mike Kuzmicz . Larry Conjar . Phil Sheridan ...		. 6 . 4 . 3 . 1 . 2 . 1 . 1 . 1		131 82 63 39 27 11 10 0	21.8 20.5 21.0 39.0 13.5 11.0 10.0	PASSING Player	Att. Comp. Int. Yards TD Bill Zloch 	  89	36	9	558	3 Fora Schoen 	 24	13	1	229	1 Dan McGinn	 3	3	0	42	0 Dan Harshman	 2	10	21	0	Pct. .405 .542 1.000 .500
9
Academic Council of Ecumenical Institute Started
Reverend Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., President of the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame and President of the International Federation of
Catholic Universities, made the following announcement on December
15 as Chairman of the recently established Academic Council of a pro-
posed new ecumenical institute.
A group of Roman Catholic, Orthodox (Chalcedonian
and non-Chalcedonian), Protestant, and Anglican theo-
logians, meeting at Villa Serbelloni (a Rockefeller Form-
dation conference center), at Bellagio, Lake Como,
Italy, has constituted itself the Academic Council of an
ecumenical institute for advanced theological studies, to
be established at Jerusalem, Jordan. This action was
taken in response to an invitation from the International
Federation of Catholic Universities, which had been
entrusted by Pope Paul VI with responsibility for initiat-
ing the project. In recent ecumenical encounters, the
desire has been expressed for a program of common
theological research, with special emphasis on the theme
of the redemptive acts of God in history and their mean-
ing for the men of our day. The institute is being
planned to serve this purpose.
The members of the Academic Council considered
the academic, administrative, and financial problems
involved in setting up the ecumenical institute, as well ■
as questions of program and personnel. It was agreed
that the program should be of a substantial academic
character. The institute will be concerned first and
foremost to provide established scholars and postgraduate
theological students with the means for common research.
It is expected that it will serve further as a center for
the development of an ecumenical outlook among both
the clergy and the laity, through individual study, semi-
nars, and conferences. It is also the intention of the
Academic Council that the program of studies should
be carried on in an atmosphere of prayer and worship.
The institute is to be fully ecumenical in spirit and
structure. Members of the Academic Council have been
invited to serve on the basis of their ecumenical experi-
ence, as well as their academic qualifications. The
Council will assume full responsibility for the academic
direction of the institute.
The following members of the Academic Council
were present at the Bellagio meeting:
Dr. Robert McAfee Brown (United Presbyterian Church,
U.S.A.), Stanford University, California
Rev. Walter J. Burghardt, SJ. (Roman Catholic), Wood-
stock College, Maryland *
Principal J. Russell Chandran (Church of South India),
United Theological College (Serampore University),
Bangalore, India
Professor Panayotis Christou (Orthodox), Vice Rector,
University of Thessalonika, Greece
Rev. Yves Congar, O.P. (Roman Catholic), Strasbourg,
France
Professor Oscar Cullmann (Lutheran Church), University
of Basle and Paris, Basle, Switzerland
Dr. Eugene Fairweather (Anglican), Faculty of Divinity
Trinity College, University of Toronto, Canada
Rev. John Feiner (Roman Catholic), Priesterseminar St.
Luzi, Chur, Switzerland
Right Reverend Georges Florovsky (Orthodox), Depart-
ment of Religion, Princeton University, New Jersey
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Chairman (Roman
Catholic), President, International Federation of Cath-
olic Universities
Father K. C. Joseph (Orthodox Church in India), Dean,
Holy Trinity Theological College of the Ethiopian Or-
thodox Church, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Dr. John N. D. Kelly (Anglican), Principal, St. Edmund
Hall, Oxford University, England
Professor Arthur C. McGill (United Church of Christ), De-
partment of Religion, Princeton University, New Jersey
Rev. Jorge Medina E. (Roman Catholic), Dean, Faculty of
Theology, Catholic University of Chile, Santiago
Professor Paul Minear (United Church, U.S.A.), Divinity
School, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut
Rev. Charles Moeller (Roman Catholic), Professor, Uni-
versity of Louvain, Belgium
Dr. Albert Outler (The Methodist Church, U.S.A.), Perkins
School of Theology, Southern Methodist University,
Dallas, Texas
Dean Howard Root (Anglican), Emmanuel College, Uni-
versity of Cambridge, England
S. E. Mgr. Karekin Sarkissian (Non-Chalcedonian Ortho-
dox), Rector, Armenian Theological School, Antelias,
Lebanon
Professor Rudolf Schnackenburg (Roman Catholic), Pro-
fessor, Catholic Theological Faculty, University of
Wurzburg, Germany
Professor Joseph Sittier (Lutheran Church, U.S.A.), Divin-
ity School, University of Chicago, Illinois
Owing to unforeseen circumstances, the following
members were unable to attend:
Rev. Pierre Benoit, O.P. (Roman Catholic), Rector, Ecole
Biblique, Jerusalem, Jordan
S. E. Mgr. Chrysostom Constantinidis (Orthodox), Metro-
politan of Myra, Professor in Chalki, Istanbul
Rev. Raymond Panikhar (Roman Catholic), Veranasi,
India
Professor Marcos Siotis (Orthodox), Professor in Athens,
Greece
Further nominations to the Academic Council will
be announced at a later date.
10 NOTRE DAME
University Announces $2f524,OOO Project
The University of Notre Dame recently announced
plans for a $2,524,000 project including the purchase
of a new, 15-million electron volt “atom smasher” for
basic nuclear physics research and the erection of an
addition to Nieuwland Science Hall to house it.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University
president, said acquisition of the 80-ton electrostatic ac-
celerator, nearly four times more powerful than an in-
strument built here ten years ago, has been made pos-
sible by a $1,850,000 grant to the department of physics
from the National Science Foundation. The NSF and
the University, he said, each will contribute an addi-
tional $337,000 for the construction of the building.
King-size Van de Graaff
Prof. Charles J. Mullin, head of the Notre Dame
physics department, said the University is ordering a
specially modified “King-size Tandem Van de Graaff”
accelerator from the High Voltage Engineering Corpo-
ration of Burlington, Mass. He described the instru-
ment as “one of the most versatile accelerators in the
country” and said two years would be required for con-
struction and installation. Much of its auxiliary equip-
ment will be specially designed by Notre Dame physicists
and built locally, he said.
Seven Notre Dame faculty members, one of the most
experienced groups in the use of electrostatic accelerators
for nuclear research to be found in the country, will use
the new facility in their investigations. They are Profs.
Cornelius P. Browne, Paul R. Chagnon, Sperry E.
Darden, Emerson G. Funk, John W. Mihelich, Walter
C. Miller and Bernard Waldman. Primary planning for
the new machine was done by Miller, Darden and
Browne with Browne serving as corresponding principal
investigator for the NSF grant.
20 Million Volts
A spokesman for the group said the new “atom
smasher” will be installed “because higher bombarding
energies than those now available” are required for its
work. He explained that bombarding particles will be
given approximately 20 million electron volts of energy
by the new accelerator when it is used in conjunction
with the present 4-million volt accelerator. These very
high-speed particles will produce reactions in atomic
nuclei, make radioactive materials or extremely pene-
trating X-rays.
The powerful new instrument, according to the Notre
Dame physicists, will enable them to carry out many
highly precise measurements of nuclear structure and
nuclear reaction energies. They said the new facility
will be used “day and night” for basic nuclear research
by faculty members, by graduate students doing doctoral
research, by postdoctoral research scientists and even by
some advanced undergraduate students. Three theoretical
physicists in the department will work closely with the
greatly expanded experimental program. Currently there
are seventy-seven graduate students in the physics de-
partment, and twenty-eight of these are working with the
present accelerator and in nuclear spectroscopy.
The addition to Nieuwland Science Hall, which will
be contiguous with the present accelerator vault, will
include three target rooms shielded by walls up to 7 feet
thick to contain the radiation produced. A control room,
data analysis room, electronics shop and three equipment
rooms are also to be housed in the 18,600-square-foot
building. An elaborate switching system will direct the
particle beam into one of 19 target positions. Either
positive or negative voltage may be produced in the
12-foot by 43-foot high-pressure tank, and many dif-
ferent particles including protons, deuterons, electrons
and heavy ions can be accelerated.
ND Physicists First
Notre Dame physicists were among the first to use
electrostatic accelerators, popularly called atom smashers,
in studying the atomic nucleus, and they have built three
such machines themselves. In 1934, Dr. Edward A.
Goomes and Dr. George B. Collins, built one of the
earliest accelerators in the country. A second machine
played an important role in the World War II “Man-
hattan Project” which led to the development of the
atomic bomb. The instrument now being used, which
will continue in use as part of the new facility, was
built by Drs. Waldman and Miller in 1955 and has been
used by Dr. Miller for his research since then.
Basic research programs in nuclear reactions, measure-
J ments of nuclear reaction energies, interactions of elec-
trons with atoms and nuclei, and polarization effects in
nuclear reactions have been pursued in recent years by
Drs. Browne, Miller and Darden with support from the
Joint Program of the U.S. Office of Naval Research and
the Atomic Energy Commission, the ONR and the Na-
tional Science Foundation. A program in nuclear spec-
troscopy has been conducted for some time by Drs. Funk
and Mihelich with support from the AEG. Discoveries
made in these programs developed the need for a more
powerful accelerator.
11

»■
't.

Twice a'month, six students of the College of Arts and
Letters, having assisted at Mass together, meet for dinner
with a group of the faculty in the Trustees’ Room of the
South Dining Hall. After dinner two of them give reports
on their current progress in a study project that constitutes
the whole of their senior year’s work. The others then
critically question them at length on their reports. The
students are Collegiate Scholars and the dinner-collo-
quium is the only course for which they are formally
registered. The program for Collegiate Scholars is new
this year, but it is part of an old concern in the College of
Arts and Letters to meet the special needs of superior
students.
More than a decade ago Notre Dame’s College of Arts
and Letters felt the need to develop a way to deal effec-
tively with superior students. Other colleges and univer-
sities, likewise aware of the special needs of their best
students, were experimenting with honors programs.
Father Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., Dean of Arts and
Letters started a review of alternatives. The outcome of
investigations by the Dean and a number of faculty
members was a decision not to follow the format of the
conventional honors program but rather to begin a unique
attempt to design a specific curriculum for each superior
student.
Under the leadership of Professor Francis J. O’Malley
of the Department of English, the College set up the Com-
mittee on Academic Progress to see how far that could
be realized in practice. The success of the attempt was
obvious to everyone in a few years. The top students in
the College were generally enthusiastic and that" enthu-
siasm began to have markedly favorable consequences on
12 NOTRE DAME
their work. The most visible product of the Committee’s
effort was a sharp increase in the number of seniors in the
College who competed for and won national fellowships
for graduate study.
With the growth of the enrollment in the College of
Arts and Letters, the number of students studying under
the Committee’s direction had become, by the ’60s, too
great for it to cope with easily. So, in 1964, Dr. E. A.
Goerner of the Department of Government and Interna-
tional Studies was asked to restructure and decentralize
the Committee on Academic Progress. Its membership
was greatly expanded and responsibility for a small num-
ber of students was given to individual members. Overall
policy was put in the hands of a small Steering Committee.
The new arrangements provide, once again, for the
personal supervision of each student’s curriculum as in the
original pattern of the Committee’s work. C.A.P., as the
Committee is usually called, then took the initiative in
two other developments within the College. Last spring
it successfully urged the College to make available in all
departments a course titled “Special Studies: Readings
and Research.” Open to Dean’s List juniors and seniors,
it permits an advanced student to engage in independent
study, under the direction of a faculty member, in subject
areas that would not ordinarily be available to him in
course work.
The second initiative of G.A.P. last year was more
dramatic. It proposed to the College that a program be
set up to permit a handful of outstanding seniors to work
for a full year on a program of studies centered around a
$	major research or creative project. Students elected to
|	participate are designated Collegiate Scholars. Candidates
i	submit their proposals to the Steering Committee of
£	G.A.P. in the spring of their junior year. After a careful
;	screening, those elected work under a three-man faculty
do extensive reading in Russian history on religious,
political and social movements.
Reporting on the same night as Gerry Kohl is Peter
Budetti who is headed for medical school. His project is
a study of theories of evolution. He is investigating the re-
lationships between evolutionary theories on different
levels, biological, social, political and even religious. His
faculty board is, of necessity, drawn not only from the
College of Arts and Letters but also from the biology
department of the College of Science.
The other Scholars are working on similarly focussed
and integrated programs of study under faculty boards
drawn from diverse departments. William O’Grady is
studying the philosophical backgrounds of the modem
totalitarian regimes. Malachi Kenney is working on the
i
L
... Arts and Letters College Pride...
board which is responsible for the Scholar’s whole grade
for the year. Although they attend the lectures in many
courses, Collegiate Scholars are not registered in any
regular courses. They are expected to work independently
of course structures. Naturally, only the most mature and
inquiring spirits are suited to such an arrangement and
the selection process focusses on those qualities..
To keep the Scholars in contact with one another’s
work and to give interested faculty members a formal
opportunity to watch their progress, the fortnightly dinner-
colloquia are held in the Trustees’ Room of the South
Dining Hall. Two of this year’s six Scholars report on their
work at each meeting. The range of the subject matter
discussed is, in itself, an important element in the educa-
tion of the participants.
Gerard Kohl, whose work has been in modern lan-
guages, especially Russian, is working on a comprehensive
critical study of Dostoievski. He spent a summer in Russia
doing some background research and reading. Although
the focus of his study is literary, its scope requires that he
impact of the French revolution on the thought and policy
of representative English statesmen. William Navin, who
is headed for law’ school, is conducting a set of researches
into different philosophies of law. John Moore, working
with hitherto unpublished documentation, is studying the
second Oregon migration in the light of the religious views
of the New England Yankee stock that constituted the
bulk of the migrants.
The projects all involve more than one discipline, as
would the regular senior year curriculum. Yet they are
integrated about a major theme or problem. Thus the
Scholars are required to do in depth what every serious
attempt at liberal education does: begin the work of dis-
covering the relationships between different disciplines and
truths. In short, they must begin the lifelong quest for
the unity of human experience. They get faculty direction,
but most of the work must be done on their own. It takes
a mature and self-disciplined young man to stake all of his
senior year’s grade on one comprehensive project. This
year’s Scholars are that.
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
This graph illustrates the dramatic increase of funds earmarked for Notre Dame in the estates of its
alumni and friends since the University’s Deferred Giving Program was inaugurated in 1964. During
the first eighteen months of the program, the projected value of deferred gifts has increased more
than 400%, from approximately $4,000,000 to more than $17,000,000.
Griffon, 1963, Forged Steel
David Hayes, c/o Willard Gallery
New York, New York
Three Children, 1965, Oil on Wood
Richard Scherpereel
Bloomsburg, Pennsylvania
Presenting the creative works of our alumni at Notre
Dame is a distinct pleasure for all of us in the Department
of Art. We have followed with natural interest the
progress and achievements made by our former students.
This exhibition gave us an opportunity to make this
achievement known to others.
Although we have shown the individual works of former
students before, such as Darrel Austin, David Hayes and
George Rocheleau in the Art Gallery, this was our first
large assembly of works by a number of alumni together.
Last April, Wayne State University of Detroit staged its
own first Invitational Exhibition of Works by Graduates
and Alumni of Wayne. In the introduction to this show,
G. Alden Smith remarked “that it was a pleasant surprise
to note changes in style from the works of student days—
the past performance was really past.” We too discovered
radical changes in the styles of a number of our students
since the days when they worked in our studio classes.
Yet, there is often a living strain, a natural evolution out
of the earlier and more recognizable forms into the stu-
dent’s present flowering growth.
We take this opportunity to thank all graduates who
responded to our invitation, and to offer them our con-
gratulations for the marked achievement which was
found in this body of their works, whether they be paint-
ing, sculpture, or other media.
REV. ANTHONY LAUCK, C.S.C.
Head, Department of Art

Prophet, 1965, Rosewood
Rev. James Flanigan
Notre Dame, Indiana
St. Francis of Assisi
1965, Acrilic on cc
Robert Sajnovsky
Columbus, Ohio
Christ Taken Down from the Cross, 1 963, Woodcut
John lochtefeld
Alburtis, Pennsylvania
Young Animal, 1964, Watercolor
David Hayes, c/o Willard Gallery
New York, New York
Making of the Tides, 1964, Collage and Ink
Gordon Goetemann
St. Cloud, Minnesota
Portrait of a Lady in White,
1965, Glass & mixed media
William Green
Madison, Wisconsin
Signature, 1961, Intaglio Etching
Michael Todd, c o Pace Gallery
New York, New York
.	cis s	4
Albuquerque Landscape No. 4, 1965, Oil on canvas
Ou Mie-Shu,
Canandaigua, New York
Joseph’s Vision II, 1965, Oil on canvas
John Mooney
Champaign, Illinois
SCIENCE SYMPOSIUM
(Continued from page 8)
symposium’s second day with Dean Frederick D. Rossini
of Notre Dame’s College of Science serving as chairman
of the session beginning December 4, at 9 a.m. Prof.
Herbert Fiegl of the University of Minnesota spoke on
“Science and Philosophy,” and Yale University’s Prof.
John Smith discussed “Science and Religion.”
Continuing the symposium at 2 p.m., Prof. Philip
Morrison of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
had “Science and Education” as his subject. The session
concluded with a paper on “Science and the Future of
Mankind” by Prof. Farrington Daniels of the University
of Wisconsin.
The final symposium session at 8 p.m. was a panel
discussion involving all the previous speakers and led
by Rev. Eman McMullin, head of Notre Dame’s philos-
ophy department, and Prof. I. Michael Lerner, Uni-
versity of California (Berkeley) geneticist. The sympo-
sium closed with remarks on “Science and Contemporary
Society” by Dr. George N. Shuster, assistant to the
president of Notre Dame and long-time president of
Hunter College in New York City.
The symposium was one of a series of events, lectures
and exhibits at Notre Dame during 1965 marking one
hundred years of science instruction and research at the
University. The year-long observance has been organized
by a Centennial of Science Committee headed by Prof.
Milton Burton, director of the University’s Radiation
Laboratory.
Serving on the symposium planning committee were
Chairman Crosson; Prof. Harvey Bender, co-chairman;
Dr. Thomas P. Bergin, dean of continuing education;
Profs. Angelo Lamola, Edward Manier and Crowe; and
Father McMullin and Dr. Shuster.
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
(Continued fiom page 5)
figures from the world of finance are invited to deliver
lectures and lead symposia. Nationally affiliated orga-
nizations include a local chapter of Beta Gamma Sigma,
National Honorary Society in Business; Beta Alpha Psi,
National Professional Accounting fraternity; and the
Notre Dame Chapter of the American Marketing Associa-
tion. The College honors students are those whose annual
performance is 3.25 or higher on the 4.0 system which
places them on the Dean’s List. This year there are 86
Business Administration students in this honor group.
Our noncredit course in Supervisory Development, a
service operation to the Michiana industrial community,
is in its fourteenth year with an enrollment of 110 stu-
dents. Plans are under way to offer a small business insti-
tute as a second community service in the spring, 1966,
semester. This is in response to a heavy demand for such
a noncredit course from Michiana businessmen.
New meeting formats for Advisory Council meetings
are being employed by the College. The spring meetings
have presented student computer-scored games, profes-
sional organization (student club) programs, and, most
importantly, Advisory Council seminars whereby Council
members—all key industrial leaders—present talks and
lead student symposia in new and emerging business
problems.
As the College of Business Administration nears its
fiftieth anniversary in 1971, its faculty and students look
ahead to changing patterns that already are clear today.
The study of business most assuredly will become increas-
ingly interdisciplinary in nature. The behavioral scientist
is making new contributions to organizational theory.
Mathematicians are helping to provide new approaches to
the solution of business problems. Business economists are
helping develop a theory of the business firm. Sociologists
are assisting the development of a refined analytical theory
of human behavior itself. In his typical historical role
made ever more complex by the areas of knowledge with
which he must have working ability, the businessman of
tomorrow will provide the fusion of theory and practice
that will contribute to a better way of life for hundreds of
millions of people throughout the world.
NOTRE DAME NEWS
(Continued from page 2)
Thurin recently was also named managing editor of The
Notre Dame Alumnus.
As director of publications, Janowski will supervise
and coordinate the production of all printed materials
emanating from the University except books of the Uni-
versity Press, scholarly journals and student publications.
He will continue to manage the direct mail program of
The Notre Dame Foundation.
FORD COLLECTION RECEIVED
The University of Notre Dame has received a collec-
tion of five thousand books and other publications deal-
ing with the Romance languages from the family of the
late Dr. Jeremiah D. M. Ford of Cambridge, Massa-
chusetts.
Prof. Ford was a faculty member at Harvard Univer-
city for nearly half a century and served as chairman of
its department of Romance languages from 1911 until
his retirement in 1943. In 1937 he received Notre Dame’s
highest honor, The Laetare Medal, in recognition of a
distinguished scholarly career coupled with an exemplary
private life.
Victor A. Schaefer, director of the Notre Dame Me-
morial Library, describes Prof. Ford’s personal library as
“the working collection of a distinguished and renowned
scholar.” He said the collection, to be housed in the new
thirteen-story library, includes books, monographs5 jour-
nals, publications of learned societies, reference works,
pamphlets and reprints.
REPORT RECORD FALL ENROLLMENT
The University of Notre Dame reported a record fall
semester enrollment of 7,155 in 1965.
Leo M. Gorbaci, University registrar and administra-
tive assistant to the vice president for academic affairs,
said the total enrollment represents an increase of 173
over a year ago.
Included in the overall figure, he said, are 5,972 under-
graduate students, 189 enrolled in the Notre Dame Law
School and 994 graduate students, 134 of whom are at-
tending evening courses.
18 NOTRE DAME
Corbaci said the undergraduate enrollment figure
includes 50 young men participating in Notre Dame’s
Sophomore Year of Studies Program at Innsbruck, Aus-
tria. Not included, he explained, are 44 young women
taking courses at Notre Dame in a new program of aca-
demic collaboration with Saint Mary’s College or 23 Pur-
due University students who are taking theology courses
at West Lafayette, Ind., for Notre Dame credit.
The undergraduate student body, the registrar re-
ported, numbers 1,609 freshmen, 1,572 sophomores, 1,363
juniors and 1,274 seniors with the others enrolled in pro-
grams requiring five or more years of study. Under-
graduate enrollment by colleges includes Freshman Year
of Studies, 1,588; Arts and Letters, 1,763; Business Ad-
ministration, 1,138; Engineering, 888; and Science, 595.
While Notre Dame has a predominantly lay student
body, the overall enrollment includes 35 priests, 66 semi-
narians, 42 Brothers, and 62 Sisters. Ninety laywomen
are enrolled in the Graduate School.
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE DIRECTOR SPEAKS
Dr. Kenneth Sayre, assistant professor of philosophy
at the University of Notre Dame, lectured recently on
“Philosophy and the Mechanical Man.”
The lecture was part of the Science and Humanities
Lecture Series sponsored by the Notre Dame Student
Government.
Dr. Sayre is director of the newly created Philosophic
Institute for Artificial Intelligence at the University of
Notre Dame, and is the author of Recognition: A Study
in the Philosophy of Artificial Intelligence.
GRANDE, PEARS APPOINTED
The appointment of Dr. Peter P. Grande, an educa-
tional psychologist, as assistant dean of students at the
University of Notre Dame was made recently.
Rev. Joseph B. Simons, C.S.G., dean of students, said
Grande’s appointment is one of a series of steps being
taken to develop and strengthen the University’s security
and disciplinary office. Arthur N. Pears, retiring Niles,
Mich., police chief, was recently named to the newly-
created post of director of University security effective
December 1. Elmer Sokol, campus security chief since
1961, will continue in that post, Father Simons said.
N.S.F. AND N.I.H. MAKE NINE GRANTS
The National Science Foundation and the National
Institutes of Health have awarded nine research grants
totaling $291,098 to the University of Notre Dame, it
was announced by Francis X. Bradley, Jr., research ad-
ministrator for the University.
The National Science Foundation has awarded grants
to Dr. Don Mittleman, director of the Notre Dame Com-
puting Center, $100,000 for rental and maintenance of
computing equipment; and Dr. John F. Wehner, asso-
ciate professor of chemical engineering, $32,100 for a
study of the “Structure of Laminar Flames.”
Also Dr. Raymond C. Gutschick, $20,888 for a study
of “Biostratigraphy of Madison Group and Sappington
Formation, Western Montana”; Dr. Lawrence H. Lee,
professor of engineering science, $39,800 for a study of
“Incremental Theories of Plasticity and Inelastic Insta-
bility of Cylindrical Shell”; and Dr. Bernard S. J. Wost-
mann, associate professor of biology, $34,050 for a study
of “Cellular and Humoral Immune Response in Germ-
free Mice Reared on Water Soluble Diets.”
Grants were made by the National Institutes of Health
to Dr. Morris Pollard, director of Lobund Laboratory,
$18,886 for support for rearing and study of germfree
animals; Dr. Ernest L. Eliel, professor and head of the
chemistry department, $15,‘295 for a study of “Synthesis
and Conformation in Heterocyclic Chemistry”; Dr.
Harvey A. Bender, associate professor of biology, $19,522
for a study of “Phenogenetics of the Lozenge Loci in
Drosophila” ; and Dr. Daniel J. Pasto, associate professor
of chemistry, $10,557 for a study of “The Chemistry of
Monothioalkoxy and Aryloxyboranes.”
BRANDL NAMED VISITING PROFESSOR
Professor Ernest E. Brandl, Scholar in Residence,
Architecture, at Notre Dame has been appointed visit-
ing professor of architecture at California State Poly-
technic College, San Luis Obispo, for the winter semester.
Brandl has been engaged in extensive lecture tours
during the past four months at more than a dozen uni-
versity campuses including Oklahoma, Illinois, North-
western, Columbia, Cornell, Virginia, Clemson and Ohio
State.
PROFESSORS ABELL AND AARON DIE
Death came unexpectedly to two University of Notre
Dame faculty members in late October.
Professor Roy Aaron, 56, of the Mathematics depart-
ment was stricken by a heart attack while watching the
Notre Dame-Southern California game in the Notre
Dame Stadium. Aaron had taught at the University
since 1942.
Professor Aaron I. Abell, 62, of the History depart-
ment died of an apparent heart attack on Oct. 26. He
was a former president of the American Catholic His-
torical Association and a faculty member at Notre Dame
since 1945.
ECHEVERRIA NAMED ARTIST-IN-RESIDENCE
Mexican painter Enrique Echeverria is serving as
artist-in-residence at the University of Notre Dame during
the 1965-66 school year and the subsequent summer ses-
sion.
Echeverria, who is also teaching advanced painting
classes, succeeds West Berlin sculptor Waldemar Otto,
who was appointed artist-in-residence at the University
in 1963. The position was first held by the late Ivan
Mestrovic, the celebrated Croatian sculptor, from 1955
until his death in January, 1962.
Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., head of the Notre Dame
art department, said the notable features of Echeverria’s
work include quiet, muted colors and extensive use of the
palette knife rather than the brush. He described the
artist’s work as “real expressionism,” between cubism and
abstract expressionism.
Echeverria studied for five years with Arturo Souto,
a Spanish painter, and was awarded a fellowship from
the Institute de Cultura Hispanica for further studies in
Spain. He also received a fellowship from the Guggen-
heim Memorial Foundation in New York City.
He has had one-man shows at the Pan American
Union in Washington, D.C., and at the Galeria Proteo in
Mexico City. His paintings have also been seen at inter-
national exhibitions in Japan, Brazil and Canada.
19
l!r.	J. J. Tracey, Jr.
P.O. Box 22
Stoic 0oL13;o ?a. 16301
The last 25 years of Notre Dame's Century of Science, from 1940 to
this year, saw almost unbelievable strides forward in the areas of faculty,
curriculum, facilities, programs, and research.
In 1941, the Heat and Power Laboratory was completed. And in 1942,
the first experiments in radiation chemistry were performed on the campus
with the high-voltage electron accelerator of the Department of Physics,
leading to the establishment in 1946 of the research program in radiation
chemistry under Professor Milton Burton. In 1963, the Radiation Research
Building was completed and today the work being done there is the most
extensive on any college campus in the country.
In 1947, the Germfree Life Building was completed for the Lobund
Laboratory. When the Nieuwland Science Hall was completed in 1952, the
College of Science found a new home for its rapidly growing faculty and
student body, especially in the graduate study programs.
Other highlights of Science development in recent years were the con-
version of the old convent into the Geology Building in 1958 and the con-
struction of the Computing Center and Mathematics Building in 1962, com-
plete with a UNFVAC 1107 computer to serve all University researchers.
As the first 100 years of Science at Notre Dame comes to a close at
year's end, if is particularly significant that the University honored Dean
Frederick Rossini of the College of Science as its 1965 Laetare Medalist.
With such leadership and with the support of an outstanding faculty and
student body, Science at Notre Dame will look on even greater days in the
future.
“EXTENDING THE TRADITION OF GREAT TEACHING”
As members of the Notre Dame family, the year 1965 is very im-
portant to each of us. It begins the second half of the University's
$20,000,000 program to strengthen the areas of faculty development,
new academic programs and student aid. It also calls for the construction
of a new Athletic and Convocation Center and two undergraduate resi-
dence hails.
If you have not already participated in this program to help build an
even better Notre Dame, please contact the office below for additional
information about the part you can play. There is no obligation, of course.
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION
P.O. BOX 555
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556