* « ,
3
designer of Claremont, California has been com-
missioned to create the 100-foot mural on the

facade of the Notre Dame Memorial Library,
currently under construction at the University.
The University of Notre Dame has acquired
microfilm copies of Vatican documents chronicling
the first two-and-a-half centuries of the history
of the Catholic Church in the United States.
Letters and reports sent by American prelates
and priests to the Vatican between 1622 and 1861
have been copied in the archives of the Sacred
Congregation for Propagating the Faith with the
permission of its prefect, His Eminence Gregorio
Pietro XV Cardinal Agagianian. Bev. Thomas T.
McAvoy, C.S.C., Notre Dame archivist, supervised
the mammoth microfilming project.
Franklin D. Schurz, editor and publisher of
The South Bend Tribune, has been appointed a
member of the Advisory Council for Liberal and
Fine Arts at the University of Notre Dame. He
has been a member of the Notre Dame President’s
Committee of South Bend for several years.
Bev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. gave the
principal address at the winter convocation of
the University of Chicago in December.
»’<	• Notre Dame’s Dr. Gerhart Niemeyer, an
' {	authority on Communism, is conducting a study
on “Lenin and the Total Critique of Society”
under the auspices of the Hoover Institution of
’ j	Stanford University.
• *<
President John F. Kennedy received Notre
Dame’s Laetare Medal for 1961 in a ceremony at
The White House in November. Symbolizing the
rise of Catholic leadership in the United States
since the medal was established in 1883, the
President was cited for “The charity, the calm
determination and imaginative courage of your
statesmanship in this age of prolonged and ever-
increasing danger.”
A DIGEST OF IMPORTANT HAPPENINGS
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
AND NEWS BRIEFS ON THE ACTIVITIES
OF NOTRE DAME MEN.
Joseph I. O’Neill, Jr., of Midland, Texas, a
member of Notre Dame’s Associate Board of Lay
Trustees, was honored at the Football Hall of
Fame Dinner in New York as a member of
SPORTS ILLUSTRATED’s “Silver Anniversary
All-American Team.” O’Neill is a former presi-
dent of the Notre Dame Alumni Association and
general appeal chairman of the $18,000,000 Chal-
lenge Program.
Several men associated with Notre Dame are
the authors of new books. Dr. George N. Shuster,
assistant to the president, has written “The
Ground I Walked On.” “Architects in America of
Catholic Tradition” is the work of Prof. Francis
Kervick, retired head of the architecture depart-
ment. Dr. Balph M. Mclnerny, assistant professor
of philosophy, is the author of “The Logic of
Analogy.”
A new program of communication research
has been inaugurated by the Department of
Marketing Management. Its director is Dr. Lauren
E. Crane, formerly of the Communications Re-
search Center at Michigan State University.
“Industrial Relations in a Dynamic Economy”
was the theme of Notre Dame’s tenth annual
Union-Management Conference held February 23rd
on the campus.
D. J. Napolitano, associate professor of physi-
cal education at Notre Dame, has been named a
Fellow of the American Association for Health,
Physical Education and Recreation.
Dr. Paul H. Emmett, Grace Professor of
Chemistry at The Johns Hopkins University, an
authority in the field of catalysis presented a se-
ries of three P. C. Reilly Lectures in chemical
engineering at the University of Notre Dame.
Dr. Thomas P. Bergin, Jesse H. Jones Profes-
sor of Business Administration at the University
of Notre Dame, has been named a consultant
to the Office of Planning and Research of newly-
formed Area Redevelopment Administration in
the U.S. Department of Commerce.
(Continued on page 18)
• EDITOR: JOHN H. JANOWSKI
2 NOTRE DAME
NOTRE DAME VOL. 15, No. 1, SPRING, 1962
Published quarterly by the University of Notre
Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second
class matter May 10, 1928, at Post Office at Notre
Dame, Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.

4
X
& ■**
ids’
v. -Z r^rzR^zz a&aa*^a^aaa^a^a^a^aaaaa
W (k'wvk
-
,//
iX
mb&*»
< -
f ‘




'?&<('<'''/&*//'A^AAP^ fAsSsA&A
ma	A
^o^zzzzzzz
*» • * • . w.	JL




On November 8, 1957, President Dwight D. Eisen-
hower announced his initial appointments to the six-man
National Civil Rights Commission. Rev. Theodore M.
Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame’s president, has been a
member of this group since its inception and has had
the opportunity to view the questions of Civil Rights in
America in a deep and penetrating way.
Because of his unusual experience, Father Hesburgh
recently submitted a statement of his personal observa-
tions to President John F. Kennedy and the Congress
of the United States which was appended to the 1961
report of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights.
The entire text of Father Hesburgh’s statement fol-
lows, and should be of particular interest to each member
of the Notre Dame family.—Editor
A^J^A
bH
APPOINTMENT
&&F:
tw rt 'A

A REPORT ON CIVIL RIGHTS
by Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.
This is not the usual minority statement to express a
difference of opinion. Despite our wide diversity of back-
grounds, all of the six Commissioners are in very sub-
stantial agreement regarding this report and its recom-
mendations. It has occurred to me, having been a member
of the Commission since its inception, that the Commis-
sion is becoming, more and more, a kind of national

Rgjeuve
THE W&HT
TO SEA*



1
I
November 19,	1®
^4

I
A Credo for America
The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president of
the University of Notre Dame, appended to the
Civil Rights Commission’s report condemning
brutality and lawlessness by police officers a dec-
laration of conscience with significance for every
American. Father Hesburgh did more to clarify
the essential tenets of the way of life we espouse
—but do not always practice—than a libraryful
> of civics texts. He summed up his plea for a
, better implementation of the philosophy that dif-
ferentiates us from totalitarian regimes with
) these words:
| “Personally, I don’t care if the United States
f gets the first man on the moon if, while this is
happening on a crash basis, we dawdle along
I here on our corner of the earth, nursing our
prejudices, flouting our magnificent Constitution,
j ignoring the central moral problem of our times, g
and appearing hypocrites to all the world.”	f
JJ This is an order of priorities that cuts through f
the fog of debate over fiscal, military and diplo- t
B matic policy and focuses on the enduring roots |
T of our strength. Every denial of essential human
Cj rights, whether based on race, poverty, lack of
I political or economic power or unpopularity of
f ideas, strikes at that strength. Injustice and in-
| security are more insidious and debilitating ene-
a mies than any external aggressor.
We have it within our reach in this age of
technological progress to abolish want for all our
people and to share our abundance even more fully
with mankind. But our material success and our
military might will have little appeal to the rest
of the world if in our own nation we continue to
betray the ideals of equal opportunity, or give
them only token acceptance.
Father Hesburgh has done more than write a
footnote to another Government report. He has
pointed a glowing road toward human betterment
and decency.

4
•n
’-4^'
conscience in the matter of civil rights. As a conscience,
its effectiveness depends quite completely upon whether
it is heard and whether the Nation and national leaders
act accordingly.
I am filing this personal statement because of a per-
sonal conviction that Federal action alone will never com-
pletely solve the problem of civil rights. Federal action
is essential, but not adequate, to the ultimate solution.
In the nature of the problem, no single citizen can dis-
engage himself from the facts of this report or its call to
action. Leadership must come from the President and
the Congress, of course, but leadership must also be as
widespread as the problem itself, which belongs to each
one of us. May I then say just a few words about what
the Commission Report, as a conscience, seems to be
saying. I claim no special wisdom. This is just one man’s
extra step beyond the facts of the report and its recom-
mendations.
To anyone who reads this report on the present status
of civil rights in America there must come mixed emo-
KI
k*
U*&.
tions — some joy and satisfaction at the demonstrable
progress that the past few years have seen, and a deep
frustration at the seemingly senseless and stubborn
pockets of resistance that remain all across our land.
Then comes the really significant question: Why?
To ask why is to become philosophical, even theologi-
cal, about the matter. Why does America, the foremost
bastion of democracy, demonstrate at home so much
bitter evidence of the utter disregard for human dignity
that we are contesting on so many fronts abroad? Ameri-
cans might well wonder how we can legitimately combat
communism when we practice so widely its central folly:
utter disregard for the God-given spiritual rights, free-
dom, and dignity of every human person. This sacredness
of the human person is the central theological and philo-
sophical fact that differentiates us from the communistic
belief that man is merely material and temporal, devoid
of inherent inalienable rights and, therefore, a thing to
be manipulated, used, or abused for political or economic
purposes, without personal freedom or dignity, de-
fenseless before the state and the blind laws of economic
determinism.
It is not enough to reject this inhuman communistic
doctrine. We must demonstrate that we have something
better to propose in its stead, and that this something
works better, and is better for all mankind, here and
everywhere. The most depressing fact about this report
is its endless tale of how our magnificent theory of the
nature and destiny of man is not working here. Inherent
in the depressing story is the implication that it is not
working because we really do not believe in man’s inner
dignity and rightful aspiration to equality — unless he
happens to be a white man.
Some white men in very recent years have kicked,
beaten, or shot a Negro to death and have not even
been indicted because of a jury’s prejudice or a legal
technicality, while “among these rights are life, liberty,
and the pursuit of happiness.”
The pursuit of happiness means many good things in
America: equal opportunity to better one’s self by a good
education; equal opportunity to exercise political freedom
g;. and responsibility through the vote; equal opportunity
to work and progress economically as all other Americans
do; and equal opportunity to live in decent housing in a
decent neighborhood as befits one’s means and quality as
a person. If the pursuit of happiness does not mean at
least these things to Americans reading this report, then
they have not recognized the splendor of the American
dream or the promise of the American Constitution.
Now read the pages. They are filled with a record
of people, again good, intelligent people, working with
all their energy and talent to make a travesty of this
dream and this promise. These people who are trying to
pervert our Western ideal of the dignity, the freedom,
and the rights of every human person are not Com-
munists. They are Americans, but white Americans
denying what they enjoy and I trust cherish, to Negro
Americans.
Some of the sorry efforts are crude: like the reign of
terror to deter Negroes from registering and voting (vol.
1, pp. 163-64), or the application of double standards in
the matter: one for whites and the other for Negroes
(vol. 1, pp. 86, 161-62). Other efforts are heartless: deny-
ing the Negro American decent schooling on all levels —
even industrial and agricultural training — which means
4 NOTRE DAME
i
another long generation of menial jobs and wasted talents
and blighted hopes, all to America’s loss (vol. 2, pp. 79-98;
vol. 3, pp. 97-101). Still other efforts are sentimental: a
way of life, right or wrong, is more important than what
happens to other human beings and to our country in
the process. Perhaps we could establish a stronger al-
liance against these outrages if we were to meditate
more deeply on the true import of our Christian heritage.
Could we not agree that the central test of a Christian
is a simple affirmative response to the most exalted com-
mand mankind has ever received: “Thou shalt love the
Lord thy God with thy whole heart, and thy whole soul,
and thy whole mind, and thy neighbor as thyself" No
mention here of a white neighbor. There was another
similar statement, “Whatsoever you did (good or evil)
to one of these, my least brethren, you did it to Med3 We
believe these truths or we do not. And what we do, how
we act, means more than what we say. At least, the
Communists admit that they do not believe as we do.
At least they thus avoid hypocrisy.
we are reaping the effects of our many discriminatory
practices. We spend billions of dollars trying to convince
the uncommitted nations of the world (about 90 per cent
nonwhite) that oui' way of life is better' than communism,
and then wipe out all the good effects by not even prac-
ticing “our way” in our own homeland. We are all ex-
cited about Communist subversion at home while we
perpetuate a much worse and studied subversion of our
own Constitution that corrodes the Nation at its core and
central being — the ideal of equal opportunity for all.
What can we expect for the future, if one-tenth (and
predictably at the end of this century, one-fifth) of our
population are second-rate citizens, getting a second-rate
education, living in second-rate houses in second-rate
neighborhoods, doing all of the second-rate jobs for sec-
ond-rate pay, and often enough getting second-rate justice.
What can we expect if this continues? I suspect that we
will have a fifth of the Nation being second-rate citizens,
and the rest of us can hardly be expected to be classed
first-rate by the rest of the world in allowing this, espe-
*
President Kennedy (far left) meets with members of the Civil Rights Commission at the White House. Clockwise from the
President are: Harris Wofford, Special Assistant to the President on Civil Rights; Spottswood W. Robinson, III, Dean
of the Howard University School of Law; Father Hesburgh; Robert Storey, former Dean of Southern Methodist Law
School and Vice Chairman of the Southwestern Legal Center; Robert S. Rankin, Chairman of the Dept, of Political
Science, Duke University; John Hannah, President of Michigan State University; Erwin Griswold, Dean of Harvard
University Law School; Berl Bernhard, Staff Director of the Commission on Civil Rights.
Lest I seem to be unduly harsh on the South, let me
underline another story often repeated in these pages,
which is a specialty of the North and East and West.
There is the sophisticated approach of the financial com-
munity which says its concern in financing housing is
purely economic as though this might somehow cancel
out the moral dimension of what their lack of moral
concern causes to happen to human beings, fathers,
mothers and children, not Martians, but Americans, who
live in blighted neighborhoods with no hope of the most
elemental physical well-being without which human dig-
nity and decent lives become impossible. Then there are
the unspoken, but very effective conspiracies of builders,
real estate brokers, and good neighbors who are down-
right arrogant in preserving the blessings of democracy
for their own white selves alone (vol. 4, pp. 2-3, 122-26).	•
f
Well, if the report says anything it demonstrates that	[s
cially while we continue to profess a strong belief in	'
equal rights and equal opportunity.
Personally, I don’t care if the United States gets the
first man on the moon, if while this is happening on a	I
crash basis we dawdle along here on our comer of the
earth, nursing our prejudices, flouting our magnificent
Constitution, ignoring the central moral problem of our
times, and appearing hypocrites to all the world.
This is one problem that needs more than money.	*
(Continued on page 18)
r
5
r< J • " * \	». ■* -i - 7	-..	A-.*. a; .. .T.r \-r?,.-.’»..

by the Syracuse University Press, Ivan Mestrovic, Sculp-
tor and Patriot, (1959) and The Sculpture of Ivan
Mestrovic (1948).
Mestrovic’s sculpture is contemporary, but it bears an
unmistakable pre-classical and classical influence. His
works in stone, wood and bronze can be seen in museums,
private collections, churches and parks from Belgrade to
Chicago. While many of his works depict Christ, His
Mother and the saints, Mestrovic also executed sculptures
of many contemporary figures including former Presi-
dent Herbert Hoover, the late Pope Pius XII, Yugo-
slavia’s Cardinal Stepinac who was his dear friend, and
the late President Thomas Masaryk of Czechoslovakia.
His sculpture can be seen at the Shrine of the Immacu-
late Conception, Washington, D.C., one of the world’s
largest churches.
HONORED MANY TIMES
Honored many times for his artistry, Mestrovic re-
ceived the Gold Medal for Sculpture of the National
Institute of Arts and Letters in 1956 and the Fine Arts
Medal of the American Institute of Architects in 1955.
He held honorary degrees from several universities in-
cluding Notre Dame, Columbia, Marquette and Colgate.
The citation accompanying the Notre Dame degree
in 1955 saluted Mestrovic as “a world-renowned sculptor
of religious subjects as well as a modem patriot whose
sculptures have often portrayed the aspirations and tra-
ditions of the people of his native Croatia ... In his
many sculptures of Christ, His Mother and the saints,
he incarnates the conviction that faith is the trans-
figurative element of art ...”
o
Mestrovic was born August 15, 1883, in Vrpolje,
Croatia. As a child he watched his father carve wood.
At the age of fifteen he became apprenticed to a stone-
cutter and his virtuosity soon became apparent. A year
later he began his formal studies at the Vienna Art
Academy. His early exhibitions marked Mestrovic as a
leading Croatian nationalist, but he was a patriot rather
than a politician. He shunned public office and even
resigned from Parliament soon after he had been elected
to it.
Ivan Mestrovic, the internationally celebrated sculptor
and professor of sculpture at the University of Notre
Dame since 1955, died January 16 in St. Joseph’s Hos-
pital, South Bend, Indiana. He was 78.
The Croatian-bom artist was regarded as an out-
standing sculptor of religious subjects. His works have
been included in international exhibitions for more than
fifty years. Among them are his seven-ton “Pieta” which
was exhibited at New York’s Metropolitan Museum of
Art for several years and which now rests in Sacred
Heart Church on the Notre Dame campus.
Characteristic of the vigor of the peasant stock from
which he came, Mestrovic worked in his campus studio
until nearly noon on the day of his death. He suffered a
slight stroke around 7 p.m. and was taken to the hos-
pital where he succumbed to a massive stroke at 8:27 p.m.
Mestrovic came to Notre Dame in 1955 after teach-
ing for eight years at Syracuse University in New York.
His life and work are the subject of two books published
IMPRISONED IN ZAGREB
When nationalists were threatened with arrest at the
outbreak of World War I, Mestrovic fled to Italy. Dur-
ing the early part of World War II he was imprisoned
in Zagreb by the puppet government established by
Hitler and Mussolini. He was released as a result of
Vatican intervention and spent the latter part of the war
in Switzerland. He became an American citizen in 1954.
Immediate survivors include his widow, Olga; a daugh-
ter, Mrs. Antonio Krstulovic, Buenos Aires, Argentina;
a son, Matthew Mestrovic of New York City; and a
brother, Peter Mestrovic, of Washington, D.C., and New
York City.
Funeral services were held January 19 in Sacred
Heart Church on the campus and burial was held in
Yugoslavia, where the Communist regime discouraged
the large crowds who wanted to pay tribute to Mestrovic
by changing the timetable and forbidding large gather-
ings at the cathedral.
6 NOTRE DAME
1
Above: Jacob's
and well
Well—bronze, base
OF
of
of
of
Upper right: Pieta—marble; Sacied Heait Church.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
black marble; O’Shaughnessy Hall, University
Notre Dame.
Lower right: Mary the Immaculate Queen
the Universe—limestone relief; National Shrine
the Immaculate Conception, Washington, D. C.



Lower center: Crucifixion—mahogany, University
of Notre Dame.
Lower left: The Prodigal Son—bronze; Sacred
Heart Chui ch, Notre Dame, Indiana.

€



Three books, each of widespread interest to American
readers, have been published recently by the University
of Notre Dame Press. Additional information and a
catalog of other current Notre Dame Press publications
are available by writing the Notre Dame Press, Notre
Dame, Indiana.
George H.
Dunne, S.J.
Generation of Giants
By George H. Dunne, S.J. (410 pp., $5.75) is the ex-
citing story of intrepid Jesuit missionaries in the China
of Ming and Manchu dynasties.
In addition to being a rattling good adventure story,
it is a true story of the devoted group of missionaries
which makes excellent reading for all. The book was
chosen as the Catholic Book Club selection for January.
Father Dunne, presently assistant to the president of
Georgetown University in Washington, D. C., was a
Jesuit missionary in China prior to World War II.
Richard
Sullivan
Notre Dame —
Reminiscences of An Era
By Richard Sullivan (258 pp., $1.95) is a paperback
edition of the original, to which the author added an
epilogue which brings it up to date.
Professor Sullivan, well-known novelist as well as a
member of the Notre Dame faculty has provided the
tender, nostalgic story of a famous university, its spirit
rather than a chronology.
A must for any member of the “Notre Dame family,”
or anyone who looks upon Notre Dame as a “special
place.”
Ernest
Sandeen
Children and Older Strangers
By Ernest Sandeen (88 pp., $2.95) consists of forty-one
poems some previously published in leading literary
journals, and others never before seen in published form.
Professor Sandeen is also a member of the Notre
Dame faculty and has captured in his poetry a vibrant
picture of what most people consider the ordinary and has
transformed it into something unusual and meaningful.
8
NOTRE DAME
Ite

/
FRENCH
LOMBARDIAN
VENETIAN
FLEMISH
SCOTTISH
5
Head of Prophet,
Anonymous
French
(Early 13th century)
— gift of Lester Wolfe
NEAPOLITAN
This selection of twenty-five works currently on dis-
play in the O’Shaughnessy Hall art gallery demonstrates
how well Notre Dame's collection represents the various
periods of Western art from the thirteenth century up
to the present. Although a continuous development is
illustrated here, the collection has fine examples of the
art of earlier periods and many other cultures. Most
importantly, this group illustrates the aesthetic dimension
of the collection by tracing the historic development with
works of surpassing excellence. Many of the artists
represented here are not well known, but we can be
proud that we have many good examples of these lesser-
known masters. This collection is a splendid monument
of beauty honoring our generous donors who have helped
build it.
John Howett
Curator
The University Art Gallery
FT
The
Crucifixion
Bernardo Daddi, -follower of
( c 1350)
of Kress
Holy Family &
Two Donors
Polidoro Da Lanciano
Venetian (1514-1565)
— gift of Mr. & Mrs. D. B. Findlay
Madonna and Child
Giovanni Amadeo
Lombardian (1465-1470)
ift of Kress Foundation
Portrait of a
Woman
Italian
— gift
Foundation
Bartolommeo Veneto
North Italian (1502-1530)
— gift of Mrs. Fred J. Fisher
Portrait of a Gentleman
Paulus Moreelse
Dutch (1571-1683)
— gift of Kress Foundation



Madonna and Child
School of Botticelli Italian (c 1485)
— gift of Mrs. Fred J. Fisher
Portrait of a Nobleman
Jan Anthonisz Van Ravesteyn
Dutch (1572-1657)	’
— gift of Stuart M. Kaplan
Rest on the Flight into Egypt
Claude Gelee (Lorraine)
French (1600-1682)	.
— gift of H. Nelson Deranian
Landscape with Figures
Jan Wynants
Dutch (1630-1684)
— gift of Lester S. Abelson
The Golden Age
Abraham Bloemaert, copy after
Dutch (1564-1658)
— gift of Lester S. Abelson
Mercury and Argus
Pieter Mulier
Dutch (1637-1701)
— gift of Walstein Findlay
The Daughters of Cecrops
Find the Infant Erichthonius
Gerard De Lairesse
Flemish (1641-1711)
— gift of Richard E. Berlin
---r~«TV-
Portrait of a Woman, Jean Marc Nattier
French (1685-1766)
— gift of Mrs. Fred J. Fisher
Louis XV and his favorite dog
Jean Baptiste Oudry
French (1686-1755) —gift of Walstein Findlay
Cincinnatus Offering his
Baton to a Farmer
Giovanni Battista Tiepolo, Studio
Venetian (1696-1770) —gift of Lewis J. Ruskin
Ermina and the Shepherd
Francesco Solimena
Neapolitan (1657-1747)
— gift of Mrs. Ernest Graham
Le Bouton De Rose
Francois Boucher
French (1703-1770)
— gift of Mrs. Fred J. Fisher
Venice Near S. Maria Maggiore, Bernardo Bellotto
Italian (1724-1780) —gift of Kress Foundation

Sir Patterson of Leith
Sir Henry Raeburn
Scottish (1756-1823)


Ji
Nature Morte Aveg Fruits
Pierre Bonnard
French (1867-1947)
— gift of Nathan Cummings
♦ <

jr
u
The Lock
John Constable
English (1776-1837)
'ift of Mr. & Mrs. Harry Sugar
I
The Rev. Philip R.
McDevitt
Thomas Eakins
American (1844-1916)
— gift of Mary R. & Helen C. McDevitt


IF
Watching., Adolph Gottlieb
American (1903-) —gift of Joseph Shapiro

Flowers with Paper-Mustard Background
Bernard Buffet
French (1928-) —gift of J. Jean and Julian J. Aberbach
13
I

TT
T
. the pursuit
• •
excellence . . . ”
DEANS9 OUTLOOK...

The faculty of the College of Engineer-
ing are making substantial progress in
planning curriculum revisions for the
various Departments, and plans should
be completed at the end of the spring
semester. Several new courses will be
offered immediately, such as, the course
in Feedback Control Systems in the
Electrical Engineering Department. Sev-
eral members of the Civil Engineering
Department under the leadership of Dr.
Harry Saxe will begin work on a re-
search project sponsored by the United
States Air Force as well as preparing
Norman D. Gay
Dean of the College
of Engineering
The College of Science is anticipating
considerable benefits for its students,
both undergraduate and graduate, and
its faculty, from the three new univer-
sity-wide building projects now com-
pleted or in process of construction on
the campus: (1) the housing for mar-
ried students: (2) the Stepan Center;
and (3) the University Library. At the
same time, the College of Science has a
particular interest in two other buildings
which are in process of construction, one
On an afternoon early in May, 1962,
every AB sophomore will be interviewed,
alone and individually for a half-hour
each, by a board of three faculty mem-
bers. Each sophomore will submit to the
board beforehand a succinct but analytic
intellectual autobiography, containing his
own reflections on his intellectual back-
ground, his present situation, and his
hopes for the future. Also, he will sub-
mit a critical analysis of a book which
he has read and which he thinks has in-
Dr. Richard M. Lyon, Associate Pro-
fessor in the Department of Business
Organization and Management resigned
at the end of the first semester to devote
his full time to the practice of law. Dr.
Lauren E. Crane has begun work on re-
search in marketing communication.
Two faculty members have completed
work for their doctoral degrees: Salva-
tore J. Bella (Cornell University) and C.
Joseph Sequin (Michigan State Universi-
Our Moot Court team was one of the
two teams representing Region 9 (Indi-
ana, Illinois and Wisconsin) in the final
round of the National Moot Court Com-
petition in New York in December.
There our team defeated the University
of Tulsa and lost the decision to the Uni-
versity of Tennessee. Members of the
Notre Dame team were Louis N. Roberts
of Evansville, Indiana and Joseph P. Al-
bright of Parkersburg, West Virginia.
Messrs. Roberts and Albright were the
winners in the final round of our own
Competition last October. Mr. Justice
Douglas presided over the Court which
sat on that occasion. Thus for the eighth
consecutive year a justice of the Supreme
for a summer symposium on the Me-
chanics of Engineering Structures spon-
sored by the National Science Founda-
tion. Dr. Bernard Cullity of the Metal-
lurgical Engineering Department has
been granted a leave-of-absence to con-
duct research on magnetic materials in
the laboratory of Professor Louis Neel
at the University of Grenoble. Dr.
Francis Raven of the Mechanical Engi-
neering Department has just had pub-
lished a book on Automatic Controls
which has received splendid reviews by
educators and professionals in that field.
for our Radiation Laboratory and one
for our Mathematics and Computing
Center. The former building will pro-
vide complete new facilities for research
on the effects of radiation on matter in
chemical, physical, and biological sys-
tems. In the latter building, the lower
two floors will house our new University
Computing Center and the upper two
floors will provide space for relocation
of our Department of Mathematics, ma-
terially helping the College of Science.
fluenced him, or helped him, or been
important to him. These writings will
form a base for the interview, but the
board will be free to question the stu-
dent about anything that might be help-
ful or revealing. The board will submit
an evaluation-profile to both student and
dean. Sophomores should get some per-
sonal insight out of this opportunity, and
faculty gets the chance to measure its
own effort with a whole class, collec-
tively and individually.
ty). The faculty is preparing a revised
curriculum to adjust the college’s pro-
gram to the needs of next year’s freshmen
who will enroll in the Year of Freshman
Studies and will be admitted to the Col-
lege as Sophomores in the fall of 1963.
The new program will maintain the
main features of the present one which
was inaugurated in the fall of 1956 and
will offer additional work in statistics
in response to the growing use of statis-
tics, mathematics and computers.
Court of the United States presided over
our Moot Court. ... On the initiative of
Judge Lawless, the Notre Dame Law
Association will sponsor a conference on
“The Trial Lawyer — 1962” on Wednes-
day and Thursday of the Reunion Week-
end, that is, June 6 and 7. There will be
panels dealing with negligence, criminal
law, antitrust and administrative agen-
cies ; and top trial lawyers of the country
will participate. Living accommodations
will be available both at the Morris Inn
and in one of the residence halls on
campus. The committee in charge con-
sists of Judge Lawless of Buffalo, New
York; Valentine B. Deale of Washing-
ton, D. C., and Camille Gravel of Alex-
andria, La.
IP K ® JJ E ® T
— the Architect and the City
by JULIAN KULSKI
In the mid-twentieth century American cities were
shocked into the realization that they faced an unequivo-
cal choice: progress or decay. The postwar population
explosion, the resultant shortage of housing, and the
menacing increase in traffic congestion forced people to
flee the cities into suburbia. This exodus caused the
basic economic structure of urban areas to disintegrate,
as the city began to wither at its center while its periphery
burdgeoned in undirected growth.
Yet more and more people had to spend their work-
ing day in the decaying environment of the city, and
they thus began slowly to realize that humane qualities
had to be brought back into its core if it was to sur-
vive at all. They began to realize that along with garbage
collection, sewage disposal, waterworks, and other munic-
ipal services, the city required the professional services
of architects and planners.
Architecture for the Mid-Century
This realization in turn forced the architectural pro-
fession to acknowledge that it was still in many respects
wedded to the nineteenth century concept of the cult of
the individual in an age when this concept was giving
way to the requirements of the group.
The architectural profession, when practiced at its
highest level, has held a classical place as the most re-
spected of the professions in the service of mankind. The
architect’s first responsibility is to the community and
the public at large. His responsibility to the individual
client — particularly in an age of urbanization — must
perforce in large measure be subordinated to this primary
duty.
In the city, for example, there is no such thing as a
private building which is a total entity in itself. It is
part of the surrounding environment, as a room is part
of a building, and as such creates the prevailing mood,
whether of joy or depression. Architects have, of course,
always been aware that a building must fit its surround-
ings, but it cannot be said that they have always carried
a sense of social awareness into their practice.
The architect must have sufficiently strong convic-
tions — along with his professional training — to be
Julian Kulski, who serves
as the faculty supervisor
of the Notre Dame stu-
dent teams currently
working on “Project’80,”
is a visiting professor of
architecture at the Uni-
versity.
Kulski, who holds de-
grees from Oxford and
Yale Universities, is also
the head of his own
architectural and city
planning firm in Wash-
ington, D. C.
His many years of ex-
perience includes the di-
rection of city planning
programs in numerous
American cities such as
Meriden and East Haven,
Connecticut ;Cumberland,
Rhode Island; and Little-
ton and Lebanon, New
Hampshire.
15
80
the final arbiter of good design. Without this quality he
is worse than useless, he is harmful. And where he has
shown weakness in this respect, he has opened the door
to encroachment on his prerogatives by other
professions.
Thus there has been an awakening to the fact that
the city must call for professional help to minister to
its ills, and correspondingly that the architect-planner
must treat Urbia as an entity rather than allowing him-
self to become distracted by an isolated ailment of one
or the other of its parts.
It is in this context that the university enters the pic-
ture. For it is the only institution with the resources
and the time to give the full professional attention of its
various departments to the needs of the present-day city.
Education for Urban Design
The need for cooperation between university work
and community life has long been felt by all major pro-
fessions. The legal profession has met this challenge by
the creation of legal aid societies; the medical profession
by training future doctors through internship. In both
cases the future practioner gets his basic practical train-
ing in actual service to the community.
A major step toward a similar type of training pro-
gram for the architect is now being undertaken by the
Department of Architecture at Notre Dame University
in cooperation with Michigan City, Indiana. Professor
Frank Montana, head of the Department of Architecture,
welcomed the opportunity that Michigan City presented
when Mr. Don A. Loken, General Manager of Michigan
City’s Chamber of Commerce, asked the University to
accept a research project for the long-range redevelop-
ment of its city center.
Like so many American cities in the mid-twentieth
century, Michigan City found itself suffering from the
ailment described above — one might call it “CBD
blight.” That is, the city’s central business district was
decaying while its outlying areas were flourishing to meet
the challenge of a new age. The city fathers were aware
that an imaginative development plan for the downtown
area would have a significant impact upon the entire
future of Michigan City. They sought the University’s
help in launching this program — labeled Project ’80,
1980 being an intermediate time goal.
The class selected to work on the project consisted
of twelve fifth-year graduating students in architectural
design. The project was to constitute the students’ thesis
16 NOTRE DAME
requirements. The class was understandably reluctant al
first, for the students were prepared for the customary
individual thesis project and were admittedly over-
whelmed by the prospect of redesigning an entire twelve-
bloc city center. Nevertheless, the idea soon captivated
their imagination as discussion got under way. A field trip
engendered their enthusiasm further, and the project was
thus launched with a real esprit de corps.
Rejuvenation of the Heart of a City
The year 1980 was selected by the city as the first
terminal goal for development, and the students’ pro-
posals indicated the gradual effectuation of the plan
in five-year increments, with the ultimate picture that
of the city in the year 2,000. The intent was to show
how a completely new city center can be rebuilt in
stages.
The first stage consisted of a study of the existing
problems of Michigan City’s central business district.
In order to come up with the cure, the students had
to become conversant with the city’s basic statistics and
to understand thoroughly the nature of its ailments. This
process consisted of a thorough analysis of the economy
of the city; existing traffic and parking problems in the
CBD; existing and future population pattern; and esti-
mates of the future trends in population, basic economy,
and land use. A detailed analysis was made of all build-
ings within the study area to determine the scope and
feasibility of the proposed building program. And to
chart the orderly growth of this area in its proper per-
spective, existing development trends and patterns for the
entire Lake Michigan Region had to be studied. The
students made a number of field trips to gather this
data. They assembled their findings in the form of writ-
ten reports and graphic presentations.
For its part, Michigan City created a special “Chamber
of Commerce Central Area Committee” for the purpose
Pointing out some of the intricate details of the
Project '80 proposals submitted by Notre Dame archi-
tecture students, Professor Kulski meets with E. R. West-
phal, president of Weil-McLain Company and chairman
of the Michigan City Chamber of Commerce central area
committee; Mayor Francis G. Fedder of Michigan City,
and Frank Montana, head of the Notre Dame Architec-
ture Department.
Professor Kulski (extreme left), visiting professor of
architecture and city planning at the University of Notre
Dame, discusses plans for the redevelopment of down-
town Michigan City, Indiana, with students who sub-
mitted the best scale models in a campus competition.
They are (left to right) Anthony Miieto, Baltimore,
Maryland; Robert Canizaro, Jackson, Mississippi; Jack
Castin, Okmulgee, Oklahoma; and John Martine, Monroe-
ville, Pennsylvania.
of working on this project with Notre Dame University,
to report to the citizens the students’ findings and recom-
mendations and to act upon them in the years to come.
; This Committee was chaired by Mr. E. R. Westphal,
President of Weil-McLain Co., and its members con-
J sisted of leading citizens of the city. Mayor Francis G.
I	Fedder’s enthusiastic support was invaluable help to the
।	students in obtaining the necessary materials from the
i	various city agencies.
I	This preliminary stage was completed by the Christ-
mas recess after dead-earnest competition among the
students during this all-important “charette” in their
academic careers. The results of their intensive activity
showed in the high quality of their presentations, which
I were in the form of carefully executed scale models, ink
1	sketches and maps.
i
i
!
A City Meant for People
As we approach Lake Michigan from along Michigan
City’s Franklin Street, we come to the 12-block decayed
area, separated from the waterfront by the nearly ob-
solescent, sprawling railroad tracks and an old, dilapi-
dated bridge. Most of this section would be torn down
by declaring it an urban renewal area. The inherent
j	excitement and joy of this unexploited location can easily
f	be spotted by the trained eye. By consolidating the rail-
>	road tracks, replacing the bridge in another location,
]	building above the railroad a landscaped platform, and
1	rebuilding this valuable piece of land into a truly mag-
!	nificent city center, a rare and great visual experience
1	would be immediately accessible to all.
Beyond this area, buildings of historical significance and
'	those worthy of preservation would be rehabilitated and
incorporated into the new urban pattern. The bulldozer
would be confined to those places beyond repair. Space
would be set aside for the future development of Purdue
University’s extension facilities. New and existing com-
mercial facilities would provide easy access by pedestrian
and automobile traffic through the creation of consoli-
dated parking. The not too distant advent of the ex-
tinction and replacement of the automobile traffic in
urban areas by convenient mass transportation facilities
was taken into consideration in the basic framework in
this plan.
Of the twelve different designs, the jury (composed
of faculty members and city fathers) selected three which
in its opinion were outstanding in imagination, char-
acter, and feasibility. The final proposal was the combined
effort of the whole team, with these three as leaders,
and incorporating suggestions from Michigan City’s of-
ficials. The future architects now had the opportunity
to narrow the scope of their attention to the design of
individual buildings in the plan.
With the detailed design of the buildings, parks, and
open spaces, the team was able to complete the large-scale
model of Michigan City Center. This, together with
sketches, will be presented by Notre Dame to Michigan
City this spring to serve as a general guide for the future
final development of the city.
As this plan is envisioned, it will enable the people
of Michigan City not only to live a more rational and
orderly life in the city but to appreciate that vision of
the city’s founders which led them, from inspiration
as well as necessity, to build this town on the periphery
of a prospect of panoramic grandeur — a magnificent
phenomenon of nature that has not and will not change
even with the advent of atomic energy and trips to the
moon.
Cross-Pollination of Town and Gown
The collaboration between the university and the
community as exemplified by this project should not end
here. This cross pollination of needs and ideas could be-
come a model of collaboration for other universities and
communities to follow. For Notre Dame Project ’80 has
already become a significant element in the education of
architects and could mean the formation there of a
graduate program in urban design.
In the larger sense, this project could open up a new
frontier of more active participation between the uni-
versity and the community and could signal the demise
of architectural academicism and commercial short-
sightedness,
o
80
17
REPORT ON CIVIL RIGHTS
(Continued from page 5)

Basically, it needs the conviction of every American,
of every walk of life in every corner of America.
We have the opportunity in our time to make the
dream of America come true as never before in our
history. We have the challenge to make the promise of
our splendid Constitution a reality for all the world to
see. If it is not done in our day, we do not deserve either
the leadership of the free world or God’s help in victory
over the inhuman philosophy of communism. Even more
fundamentally than this, we should as a Nation take this
stand for human dignity and make it work, because it
is right and any other stance is as wrong, as un-American,
as false to the whole Judeo-Christian tradition of the
West as anything can be.
Maybe more constructive action will come sooner if
we allow ourselves the unfashionable and unsophisticated
taste of moral indignation: when known murderers go
untried and unpunished with the studied connivances of
their fellow citizens (vol. 5, ch. 3); when brutal fear
is forced even upon women and children in America (vol.
5, ch. 3); when economic reprisals are used to prevent
qualified American citizens from voting, but they are not
exempted from paying taxes and serving in the Armed
Forces (vol. 1, pp. 91-97); when little children are stoned
by a vicious mob because they dare to go to a decent
school long denied them (TAe New Orleans School
Crisis* p. 16); when people are intimidated, embar-
rassed, and jailed because they presume to eat in a
public place with other people (see vol. 1, p. 4; vol. 5,
ch. 3); when a place for homes becomes, by neighbor-
hood action, an empty park because Americans think
they will be contaminated by Americans (vol. 4, pp. 133-
34) ; when Negro Americans help pay for a new hospi-
tal and then are told there is no place in it for them
(vol. 4, p. 84); when, God help us, even at death Negro
Americans cannot lay at rest alongside of other Ameri-
cans (California Hearings, p. 704).
You may think by now that I have taken considerable
license with the mandate of our Commission “to ap-
praise.” Perhaps I have, and if these remarks seem in-
temperate, the facts that support them are all between
the covers of this report, and in other publications of the
Commission.
I believe, as my fellow Commissioners do, that a report
should be objective and fatcual. But, unless there is some
fire, most governmental reports remain unread, even by
those to whom they are addressed: in this case, the Presi-
dent and the Congress.
I have no illusions of this report climbing high on the
bestseller list, because much of what it says is unpleasant,
unpopular, and to sensitive people, a real thorn in the
conscience. My words then are simply to say that I have
a deep and abiding faith in my fellow Americans: in
their innate fairness, in their generosity, in their con-
summate good will. My conviction is that they simply
do not realize the dimensions of this problem of civil
rights, its explosive implications for the present and
18 NOTRE DAME
(Continued from page 2)
• Bev. Joseph A. Maquire, C.S.C., 90, the oldest
priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross, recently
observed the 65th anniversary of his ordination
by celebrating a Solemn High Mass in the chapel
of Moreau Seminary. Father Maquire first came
to Notre Dame as a seminarian seventy-five years
ago and was ordained in Sacred Heart Church on
the campus Dec. 21, 1896, and is one of a very
few persons who remember the University’s
founder, Bev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., who died
in 1893.
• Fifteen hundred colored slides illustrating the
history of the arts of the United States have been
presented to the University of Notre Dame by
the Carnegie Corporation of New York. Rev.
Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., head of the Notre Dame
art department, said the slides, which will be used
in art history courses, range in content from
architecture, painting and sculpture of the 17th
to the 20th century to the design and decoration
of the same periods. The collection of slides also
includes material on graphic arts, photography,
stage design and visual communications.
•	A portrait of Notre Dame’s president, Bev.
Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., was the cover
subject of the Feb. 7 issue of TIME, which carried
a five page feature about Father Hesburgh and
Notre Dame and its role in Catholic higher
education.
•	William P. Mahoney, Jr., Phoenix, Ariz., at-
torney, was elected president of the Notre Dame
Alumni Association by its board of directors. He
succeeds Walter Fleming, Jr., Dallas, Tex., as
head of Notre Dame’s 30,000 member alumni
organization. Elected vice presidents were
Maurice Carroll, St. Louis, Mo., architect; Roger
Huter, president of Huter-Quest and Co., Louis-
ville, Ky.; and Harry Mehre, president of Sunny
Isles, Inc., Atlanta, Ga., soft drink firm. James
E. Armstrong, South Bend, Ind., was re-elected
executive secretary of the Association.
—mi—ini^—ijii—un—im^—mi—iiii—ini—mi—uii^—mi^—itu—'in—ini—nn——iiii——im—iim—iin-^J
future of our beloved America. If somehow the mes-
sage, plain and factual, of this report might reach our
people, I believe they would see how much the problem
needs the concern and attention of every American —
North, South, East, and West. If this were to happen,
then the problem would be well on its way to a solution.
But without the personal concern of all Americans, the
problem of civil rights is well nigh insoluble in our
times. If so, not just Negro Americans, but all of us,
and all the world, will be the losers.
* Report of the Louisiana State Advisory Committee to the Commission
on Civil Rights.
The National Science Foundation has awarded
the University of Notre Dame grants totalling
$264,200 to support campus institutes for high
school and college teachers next summer.
Prof. Louis Hasley, assistant head of the de-
partment of English at the University of Notre
Dame, was the author of five poems, an article
and a book review appearing simultaneously in
five different magazines recently.
The need for Christians to unite is more
urgent than ever before in history, according to
Rev. John A. O’Brien of the University of Notre
Dame in a recent article “Can Christians Unite?”
in THE SATURDAY EVENING POST.
Dr. Orren Mohler, associate professor of
astronomy and assistant director of the McMath-
Hulbert Observatory at the University of Mich-
igan, gave a lecture on “Solar Activity and its
Effects on Earth” at Notre Dame under auspices
of the Notre Dame chapter of Sigma Xi.
Scientists .and engineers at the University of
Notre Dame were awarded research grants total-
ing $235,356 during October and November of
1961 according to research administrator Francis
X. Bradley. Included were grants by the U. S.
Atomic Energy Commission, the National Insti-
tutes of Health, the Office of Naval Research, the
National Science Foundation and the David Taylor
Model Basin.
Dr. A. Robert Caponigri, professor of philos-
ophy at the University of Notre Dame, delivered
a series of lectures in Borne at the Luigi Sturzo
Institute on “Fundamental Concepts of Social
Analysis in their Application to Political Philos-
ophy.” At the University of Genoa, he received
the Antonio Rosmini Prize in recognition of his
work in Italian philosophy.
Fourteen technical papers by University of
Notre Dame physicists were presented at a meet-
ing of The American Physical Society at the Uni-
versity of Chicago. The reports will reflect the
research of 11 faculty members, 5 graduate stu-
dents and 13 former students in Notre Dame’s
physics department. The faculty group included
R. L. Anthony, C. P. Browne, E. A. Coomes, E. G.
Funk, Jr., D. W. Juenker, J. W. Mihelich, G.
Parzen, R. C. Pilger, Jr., A. J. Quigley, Rev.
J. L. Shilts, C.S.C., and R. S. Witte.
A. D. H. Kaplan, senior staff member of The
Brookings Institution, Washington, D.C. and re-
search professor on economics at George Wash-
ington University, delivered a Cardinal O’Hara
Memorial Lecture at the University of Notre
Dame on “Measuring the Influence of Mergers
on Competition and Economic Growth” and co-
ducted a seminar for Notre Dame faculty mem-
hers on “Furtherance of Small Business Mergers
by Western European Governments.”
Rev. Bernard I. Mullahy, C.S.C., has been
named provincial superior of the Holy Cross
Fathers’ Indiana Province. Father Mullahy, who
is 51, will serve as provincial superior until next
July when a General Chapter of the Congregation
of Holy Cross will convene in Rome. He fills the
unexpired term of the late Rev. Theodore J.
Mehling, C.S.C., who died while visiting in Santi-
ago, Chile, last November.
Funeral services were held in Sacred Heart
Church on January 3 for Bev. Thomas A. Steiner,
C.S.C., 84, who served as provincial superior of
the Congregation of Holy Cross in the United
States from 1938 to 1950. Father Steiner, who
died in South Bend’s St. Joseph Hospital, January
1, was dean of the College of Engineering at the
University of Notre Dame from 1928 to 1938.
The University of Notre Dame will conduct
a Summer Institute for Secondary School Teachers
of German and Spanish June 18th-August 3rd.
According to the institute director, Dr. Charles
Parnell, 54 teachers, equally representing private
and public schools, will be enrolled in the program.
The Notre Dame institute will be held under pro-
visions of the National Defense Education Act in
cooperation with the Language Development Pro-
gram of the U.S. Office of Education, he said.
Similar institutes were held at Notre Dame dur-
ing the summers of 1960 and 1961 for teachers of
French and Spanish.
Dr. Neal B. Amundson, head and professor of
chemical engineering at the University of Minne-
sota, gave a series of three P. C. Reilly Lectures
at the University of Notre Dame under the aus-
pices of the chemical engineering department. He
spoke on “Reactor Stability in Well Agitated
Systems,” “Tubular Reactor Stability and Sensi-
tivity,” and “Polymerization Calculations.”
Dr. Melville J. Herskovits, director of the Pro-
gram of African Studies at Northwestern Uni-
versity, delivered a Cardinal O’Hara Memorial
Lecture at the University of Notre Dame in
January on “The United States and the New
Africa.”
The election of four University of Notre Dame
graduates to the board of directors of The Notre
Dame Alumni Association was announced here
by executive secretary James E. Armstrong.
Named to three-year terms on the board are Al-
bert D. Castellini, Cincinnati attorney; Philip J.
Faccenda, president of the Midwest Container Co.,
Inc., Chicago; Peter J. Kernan, college recruiting
coordinator, The Ford Motor Co., Dearborn, Mich.;
and Adam J. Walsh, Brunswick, Me., a U.S.
Marshal and former collegiate and professional
football coach.
Rev. Edward D. O’Connor, C.S.C., assistant
professor of theology at the University of Notre
Dame, was elected president of the Mariological
Society of America at its recent annual meeting
in New Orleans, La.
19
'Ji