



J

DANEHY GETS $40,000 GRANT
Dr. James P. Danehy, associate professor of chemistry
at Notre Dame, has received a $40,000 grant from the
U.S. Public Health Service for research in aliphatic sulfur
chemistry. He is conducting a three-year study of the
effect of alkali on certain sulfur-containing compounds
which make up an important structural part of the pro-
teins found in the tissues of all living things.
FATHER BOLGER DIES
Funeral services were held in Sacred Heart Church at
Notre Dame on May 6 for Rev. Henry Bolger, C.S.C.,
former head of the department of physics at Notre Dame,
who died in the Student Infirmary on the campus at the
age of 63.
A native of Portland, Wisconsin, Father Bolger headed
the Notre Dame physics department from 1937 until last
September. He was a 1924 Notre Dame graduate with a
master’s degree from the Catholic University of America.
He took additional graduate work at the California Insti-
tute of Technology.
THREE DANFORTH WINNERS NAMED
Three University of Notre Dame seniors have been
awarded graduate fellowships by the Danforth Founda-
tion of Saint Louis, Mo. The fellowships provide tuition
and living expenses for four years of study for a doctoral
degree in preparation for a career in college teaching.
The Notre Dame fellowship winners are James V.
Maher, Jr., a physics major from Bronx, N.Y.; Frank
McConnell, Louisville, Ky., who has majored in English;
and Michael V. Messmer, a history major from Morgan-
ton, N.C. McConnell and Messmer also were recently
named winners of Woodrow Wilson national fellowships
for the first year of graduate study.
DEBATERS WIN 272
The University of Notre Dame debate team won 272
of the 325 debates in which it competed during the 1963-
64 school year, according to a year-end report by Leonard
F. Sommer, director of forensics.
Sommer said 30 Notre Dame undergraduates repre-
sented the University at debate tournaments on 18 other
campuses during the year. Fifty-two colleges and univer-
sities competed in the Notre Dame National Invitational
Debate Tournament, Feb. 27-29.
BURKE IN PEACE CORPS POST
Edward L. Burke of Framingham, Mass., a junior
history major at the University of Notre Dame, has been
selected to participate in the Summer Internship Program
of the U.S. Peace Corps in Washington, D.C.
WILHELM WINS AWARD
Dr. Ernest J. Wilhelm, associate professor of chemical
engineering at Notre Dame, has been awarded a certifi-
cate of recognition by the National Association of Cor-
rosion Engineers.
The certificates were given to 120 men throughout the
nation on the basis of professional accomplishments in
their fields. The awards were announced in the May
issue of Materials Protection, an official publication of
N. A. C. E.
HARDY’S WORKS PUBLISHED
Dr. John Edward Hardy, professor of English at
Notre Dame, is the author of one book and the editor of
a second book appearing this spring.
His book, Man in the Modern Novel, was published
this month by the University of Washington Press. He
also edited a textbook anthology of short stories, The
Modern Talent, published by Holt, Rinehart and Win-
ston, Inc. The volume includes thirty-two stories by
American and European authors of the twentieth century.
NSF GRANTS MADE
The University of Notre Dame recently received grants
totaling $60,320 from The National Science Foundation
under its Undergraduate Instructional Scientific Equip-
ment Program.
The funds were earmarked for the purchase of equip-
ment to be used in teaching undergraduates in several
departments of the Colleges of Science and Engineering.
Departments receiving NSF grants included chemistry,
$15,290; physics, $8,310; geology, $6,940; mechanical
engineering, $6,130; civil engineering, $8,650; and elec-
trical engineering, $15,000.
SPANISH MINISTER GIVES ADDRESS
The Minister Counselor and Charge d’Affaires at the
Spanish embassy in Washington, Nuno Aguirre De
Career, gave a public address on “The Foreign Policy of
Spain” at Notre Dame in April under the auspices of
the University’s Committee on International Relations.
De Career is the third foreign diplomat to speak at
Notre Dame in recent weeks in a visiting lecture pro-
gram supported by a grant from the Sperry and Hutchin-
son Company.
(Continued on page 10)
• EDITOR: JOHN H. JANOWSKI
2 NOTRE DAME
NOTRE DAME VOL. 17, No. 3, SUMMER, 1964
Published quarterly by the University of Notre
Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second
class matter May 10, 1928, at Post Office at Notre
Dame, Indiana, under the act of August 24, 1912.
Challenge II Program Passes One Third
Mark-, Contributions Exceed $9 Million
On July 1, 1964, Notre Dame’s Challenge II Program
began its second year, with total contributions to the
University during the 12-month period of $9,232,189,
including the earned portion of the Ford Foundation’s
$6,000,000 renewal grant.
Throughout the nation, alumni and friends of the
University have responded generously to the current
development program which has for its theme the phrase
“extending the tradition of great teaching.”
Basically, the Challenge II Program is divided into
four primary goals: 1) Faculty Development and New
Academic Programs, $6,500,000; 2) Student Aid, $5,500,-
000; Athletic and Convocation Center, $5,000,000; and
Two Undergraduate Residence Halls, $3,000,000.
To date, Notre Dame’s Challenge II Program has
received 5,548 gifts and pledges and every effort is being
made to increase the percentage of participation by
alumni and friends of the University in the months ahead.
Any alumnus or friend of the University who has not
contributed to the Challenge II Program is cordially in-
vited to do so and can obtain additional information,
without obligation, by contacting the Notre Dame Foun-
dation, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Two Large Grants Boost Gift Total
The University of Notre Dame has received a grant
of $210,000 from The Rockefeller Foundation to help
underwrite its Latin American research and training
5
programs in the social sciences and humanities. In addi-
tion, the establishment of a $50,000 O’Brien Corporation
Fund at Notre Dame was announced by Rev. Theodore
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president, and Jerome
J. Crowley, president of the 89-year-old paint manufac-
turing firm.
Father Hesburgh pointed out that The Rockefeller
Foundation supports the University’s Committee on Inter-
national Relations which initiated area studies at Notre
Dame and has published about 30 books dealing with
foreign affairs. He said the new grant “will enable us
to make genuine progress in Latin American affairs, an
area in which Notre Dame has a special interest and
competence.”
The Rockefeller grant, he also explained, will enable
the University over a three-year period to strengthen its
faculty and to provide for scholarly exchanges with Latin
America. He said the stepped-up Latin American
Studies Program will be under the direction of Prof.
John J. Kennedy, who taught at Notre Dame from 1951
to 1959, and who returns to the campus from the Uni-
versity of Virginia this month as head of the department
of government and international studies.
The O’Brien Fund will be administered by Notre
Dame’s Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary
Society and will be used to stimulate research in the
humanities and social sciences.
According to Dr. George N. Shuster, assistant to
Father Hesburgh and director of the Center, a relatively
small grant to a faculty member can often initiate re-
search which will attract considerably larger support
from foundations and government agencies. He indicated
that the O’Brien Corporation Fund will be used pri-
marily to provide such “seed money.”
The Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary
Society, Shuster explained, endeavors to open up “areas
of inquiry” in the social seciences and humanities and to
develop resources for research. One of its major proj-
ects is the three-year, nationwide study of Catholic ele-
mentary and secondary schools. Other areas in which
it is developing programs include ecumenism, social
change in Latin America, African education, the mass
media, demography, religion and education and Ameri-
can community relations.
4
NOTRE DAME
■
J	On the occasion of receiving an honorary degree
|	from the University of Notre	Dame during the June 7
I	commencement exercises, Dr.	Rafael Caldera, founder
1	and director of the Christian	Democratic movement in
Venezuela, presented the following thoughts on current
|	conditions in Latin America. Father Hesburgh thought
*	that they would be of interest to the entire Notre Dame
|	family and he has relinquished this issue’s President's
i	Page for that purpose.—Editor.
J
I	I am indeed aware of the great honor that the Uni-
1	versity of Notre Dame has accorded me in granting me
j	an honorary doctorate. I know, too, that with this gesture
|	this outstanding Catholic University in the United States
|	has desired at the same time to extend its hand to Latin
j	America and to encourage the struggle for democracy
।	and social justice now being waged by those movements
J	inspired in Christian Democratic ideals.
)	Twenty-two years ago I had the opportunity to visit
|	this prestigious institution. It was during the Second
World War when a group of Latin Americans was in-
8	vited to an Inter-American Seminary on Social Stud-
ies sponsored by the National Catholic Welfare Gon-
j	ference. The war had suddenly aroused concerns that
j	until then appeared dormant. This immensely pros-
I	perous nation, kept in isolation for years by those un-
interested in the problems of other peoples, had been
shaken by the storm and had learned through grim ex-
perience that liberty, happiness and prosperity are in-
divisible blessings, which no segment of humanity may
’	enjoy indefinitely if others are deprived of them.
The war ended. Peace and wealth came together
and with them the propensity to forget the hard lessons
of the struggle. But Providence permitted the sudden
establishment close by, of a totalitarian experiment, as
a reminder of the existence of misery and injustice, which
at any moment might reap a harvest of tyranny, hate
and aggression, the duration and consequences of which
t	are difficult to foresee.
We are still in time to correct the causes, but the
energy that this demands and the generosity of intention,
without which any solution will be false, must be rooted
in deep conviction.	The crisis to be faced cannot be
i	resolved with mere	material measures, for these will
I	fail if they are not	inspired by a sincere belief in the
dignity of the human person, in solidarity among peoples
'	and in the higher destiny of all humanity.
He who does not believe in justice cannot fight for
justice. He who despises charity, that is to say love, un-
derstanding, harmony among men, cannot hope to achieve
solidarity among peoples. It is therefore necessary to in-
i	crease the quota of ideals in the formation of those
leaders who are called to guide the life of their societies.
As long as we do not feel the pain of each man as our
very own; as long as we do not believe sincerely in the
।	need to construct peace on an irreplaceable foundation
1	of justice and of respect for the human dignity of each
man, the most solemn declarations will sound hollow
and be as mere formulas for diplomatic convenience.
I believe, I understand well what the distinguished
President of the University of Notre Dame, Father Hes-
burgh, and his principal collaborators wish to achieve in
giving a special meaning to the Commencement of this
year: arouse the attention of graduating students and
of their families, as well as of all those circles influenced
by Notre Dame, toward neighboring countries where a
hard battle is being waged against selfishness and hate,
the victory over which in this battle is an indispensable
condition for the happiness of all.
Twenty nations south of the Rio Grande — some
bigger, some smaller, but all equal in dignity — are
facing a crucial moment in their history. They are try-
ing to achieve their own development, in order that at
least the minimum requirements of human life can be
satisfied without curtailing liberty. Both inside and out-
side them, there are those who seek to discourage the
struggle for these objectives, urging to accept resignedly
the meager improvements that a gradual evolution might
obtain; also, inside and outside these countries there are
those who preach hate and violence as necessary to
achieve these goals, asking as the price for the trans-
formations they offer, the rejection of liberty and of the
higher spiritual values.
In the State of the Union Message, presented by
President Johnson last January to the Congress of the
United States, he denounced “the vicious circle of chronic
poverty, which denies to millions of US citizens a just
participation in the benefits of life in this country ...”
He launched “a new and major effort” against poverty;
and since then much comment and analysis has been
made concerning the thirty-five or forty million North
Americans whose share of the national income is less than
five hundred dollars per year.
In Latin America, in the meantime, per capita in-
come barely exceeds three hundred dollars a year. Con-
sidering that distribution is not equal in the different
countries, large percentages of the population receive
considerably less. There are countries in our continent
with a per capita income of less than one hundred dollars.
In general terms it is estimated that one fourth of the
Latin American people, that is, more than fifty million
persons, have an individual income of less than fifty
dollars a year.
These figures are enough, although many more could
be offered, to underline the dramatic urgency of the cir-
cumstances. Let us only point out that the principal
source for an increase in our income is the sale of our
raw products in the great world markets, of which the
United States is the most important, and that the prices
of these products, subject to the frequent oscillations
that disturb our national economies, have continually
deteriorated, while the prices of the manufactured articles
that we must import have shown a considerable increase.
Great understanding and effort on both sides are
needed in order to solve this difficult question. On our
side, we are convinced that our process of development
depends primarily on our own efforts. But we also realize
that the assistance of the more developed countries is
essential to the full success of our undertaking in the
brief time allowed us to face this grave challenge.
That assistance will not bear fruit if it is not in-
5
spired by a clear conception of the problem. The idea
that it is fair to pay higher and more stable prices for
our export goods will not gain acceptance if commercial
relations are surrendered to the mere play of interests
or to the apparently mechanical results — sometimes
cleverly manipulated — of the law of supply and
demand. The programs of international aid, the ac-
ceptance of provisions that permit and protect the in-
dustrial development of the emerging nations cannot
be left only to reasons of convenience; to be successful
they must be guided by a clear moral consciousness.
Hence the extraordinary importance that I attach to
the universities, the churches, the labor unions, the cul-
tural organizations and the various community service
groups, in the formation of this new consciousness de-
manded by the accelerated pace of events. In 1942, at
the Inter-American Seminary on Social Studies which
I mentioned earlier, I spoke of the responsibility borne
in this program by North American Catholics and by the
educational institutions supported by them. “North
American Catholics,” I said then, “must help to create
in their own country a climate favorable to a fair aware-
ness, on the part of the North American people, of the
legitimate social and national claims of our countries.
... I am quite sure that no one in any of our coun-
tries fails to recognize the need to develop genuine close-
ness among the American republics. Spiritual and eco-
nomic relations must be developed with a clear hemis-
pheric vision. But if this ideal is to be attained, it is
essential that the respective spirit of our peoples be
rightly understood, without disregarding the difficulties
that arise from environment and history. None are better
fitted for this understanding than North American Cath-
olics. . . . The immense majority of the American
people of Latin descent being Catholic, the Catholics
of the United States are especially called upon by Provi-
dence to serve as a joining link between both peoples.”
I might add that now, with the opening of new ecu-
menical paths, this action extends beyond religious bound-
aries and reaches all men of good will.
The current world situation has come to give greater
meaning to this need of approach. Sincerely, and some-
times even rudely, we affirm our views, and we must
recognize that they are not only expressed but some-
times they are even solicited. Well, it must be stated that
Latin America is restless. Life is in turmoil, and social
anguish often expresses itself in violent ways. The de-
mand for what is due to us in accordance with national
social justice is made obvious every day, and the agents
of certain foreign powers know well how to stimulate
what originally begins only as the expression of justified
discontent. The putting into operation of this new spirit
of effective inter-American cooperation cannot be post-
poned any longer and the best way to reach these goals
is through a fertile Christian inspiration moving the
consciences.
On expressing my gratitude for the undeserved honor
the University conferred upon me, I have accepted it
specially — quoting Father Hesburgh when he offered
me the honorary doctorate of Laws of the University of
Notre Dame — as an encouragement to all those who,
inspired by Christian Democratic ideals, do their best
in trying to imprint these very ideals in the heart of our
youth and in the soul of our peoples. And above all,
because we know, in this case, that our position is un-
derstood and respected by those on this side who realize
that a sincere understanding between our people and
theirs can only be definitely achieved on a foundation
of liberty and sovereignty for all, of intra- and supra-
national social justice, and of the relations maintained
on a level of dignified equality.
I give my most wholehearted thanks to the Uni-
versity, in the persons of its distinguished President, so
well known and esteemed in the countries of Latin Ameri-
ca, of the members of the Board of Trustees, and of
the Administration and Faculty of the University, for
this distinction, one of the highest a man can receive.
And allow me these final words for the students of
Notre Dame, in whom I see represented all the Univer-
sity youth of the United States: I hope you will not
forget that not far from your borders there are two
hundred million human beings who struggle to live as
human beings; that in all our countries there exist
people who fight tirelessly, risking everything, to make
liberty prevail and to change the social structures for
the establishment of justice. Those people who fight for
a free and united Latin America are making a contribu-
tion without which freedom in this hemisphere, and in
the world, would succumb. I am sure that the new
North American generations will be increasingly con-
scious of the fact that if technology has enabled us to
circle the earth in a few minutes, and if distances have
disappeared, then nowadays less than ever, no one
could live prosperously and happily while in his neigh-
bor’s house there is hunger and despair. The academic
degree that we received — effective for a thousand
alumni reaping the fruit of their efforts, honorary to us
who were associated with the occasion through the cour-
tesy of the University — must keep alive in all of us the
idea that men are more solidary each day in their aim
for a universal common good.
Dr. Rafael Caldera
ANNOUNCE 31 FACULTY PROMOTIONS
The promotion of 31 Notre Dame faculty members
was announced at the annual President’s Dinner in the
North Dining Hall on the campus in May.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University
president, was host and principal speaker at the event.
Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., vice president for
academic affairs, announced the retirement of Prof.
Frank Kelly of the department of Communication Arts
and Prof. Harry McLellan of the Mechanical Engineer-
ing department.
He announced the promotion of the following to the
rank of full professor: Cornelius P. Browne and Walter
C. Miller, Physics; George B. Craig, Biology; Rev. Joseph
Garvin, C.S.C., Classics; John E. Hardy, English; Fran-
cis M. Kobayashi, Engineering Science; James P. Kohn,
Chemical Engineering; John T. Noonan, Law; and Ray
M. Powell, Accountancy.
Newly named associate professors include Charles W.
Allen, Metallurgical Engineering; Harvey A. Bender,
Biology; Rudolph S. Bottei and Emil T. Hofman, Chem-
istry; Walter R. Davis and Robert J. Eordi, English;
Arthur R. Evans, Jr., Modern Languages; Kenneth
Featerstone, and James N. Fremgen, Architecture; Paul
C. DeGelles and Emerson G. Funk, Physics; Rev. Arthur
Harvey, G.S.G., Communication Arts; Leonard J. Kaz-
mier, Business Organization and Management; Francis
J. Lazenby, Classics; Rev. Ernan McMullin, Philosophy;
Rev. Edward O’Connor, C.S.G., Theology; Rev. Stanley
Parry, C.S.G., Government and International Studies;
and James D. Stansheff, Mathematics.
Elevated to the faculty rank of assistant professor are
John Howett and Konstantin Milonadis, Art; Rev. Leon
J. Mertensotto, C.S.C., Theology; and Rev. James L.
Shilts, G.S.G., Physics.
6 NOTRE DAME
ART.
Notre Dame Students
Experiment INidely,
Develop Individually
by MARY KITKOWSKI
Editorial Assistant
Department of Public Information
while offering full programs in industrial
However,
On a June tour through the University Art Gallery
one found a harshly colorful abstraction next to a soft
pastel landscape; what once was a used car molded to
depict three phases in the life of Moses; and a black
“pop art” canvas pasted with Lucky Strike wrappers
and a rotogravure print of a flapper.
Experiments in expressionism? Rebellion against real-
ism? A contest in cubism? All of these and yet none of
these, this show of the best works of senior art students
might have been titled “A Study in Creative Individual-
ism,” for it reflected the art department’s belief that
students should be allowed to explore in any direction
they choose — after they have been thoroughly grounded
in the basics.
Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., head of Notre Dame’s
art department, is quick to point out that all students
are carefully schooled in the sound and stable principles
of colors, straight drawings of objects and figures, classic
forms, perspective and proportions.
“Not everyone is going to be an abstract expression-
ist,” Father Lauck emphasized. “We give our students
a solid background in the good, sound principles and
important disciplines found in any art, so that if fads
change in five or ten years they will be equipped for it.”
The Notre Dame artist’s diversity in development is
further encouraged by the various programs and de-
grees offered by the department. The bachelor of arts
and master of arts degrees are geared to a general course
of study, while the bachelor and master of fine arts
degrees give intensive attention to studio work. Within
this framework are complete programs of study in Paint-
ing, Sculpture, Industrial Design and Art for Advertising.
and commercial art, great care is taken to develop artists
rather than artisans. Like Jacques Maritain’s contrast
of the fine arts versus the servile arts, Father Lauck
i	contends that in the fine arts tradition it is easier to
|	hold to principles and keep one’s ideals high than in
‘	the somewhat mechanical confines of industry. Hence
!	the Notre Dame art department holds before its stu-
dents the distinction between painting to satisfy a man’s
mind and painting to sell a product. The artist must
see any one object in relation to the larger composition
of the complete canvas.
Yet there is encouragement without coercion, disci-
pline without stifling restrictions, as evidenced by the fact
that no student’s work is immediately identifiable as hav-
ing been executed under the tutelage of a particular
professor. The close-knit, eight-member faculty is as
distinctive, yet as complementary as the tonal variations
on a colorful contemporary canvas.
Stanley S. Sessler, the veteran of the department,
has a realistic style which reflects the academician's de-
mand for strict discipline in accurate proportions and
tones. His fine precision and subtle handling of color
and composition give students a realization of the skill
of art.
The sophisticated, abstract style of Robert A. Leader
presents a fitting follow-up to Sessler’s work. One of
the most active liturgical artists in the Midwest, Leader
has a religious tone in his designs which introduces yet
another dimension to the student artist.
One of the few “kinetic sculptors” in this country,
whose work is best contemplated in motion, Konstantin
Milonadis also provides another area of discovery for
students with his welding sculpture, executed in a modern
style and combination of patterns.
At the other end of the sculptural pendulum, the
smooth and flowing abstract quality of Father Lauck’s
work is enhanced by his use of terra cotta, walnut and
cherry woods, adding both a different style and material
to the student’s artistic spectrum.
The commercial aspect of art is carried out com-
petently by two faculty members. An established designer
and consultant for industry, Frederick S. Beckman uses
numerous field trips, including visits to the “Big Three”
— Chrysler, Ford and General Motors — to stimulate
student interest in the industrial arts and give them a
firsthand look at art in action. He is aided by the
newest member of the faculty, Don Vogl, whose primary
classes in color and design develop in students an ac-
curacy in hues, tones and values.
Art historian John Howett shares his knowledge with
students in the classroom and as curator of the University
Art Gallery. Housing one of the largest collegiate col-
lections in the country, the University Gallery contains
approximately 1,000 art objects in its permanent col-
lection. Viewed as a working instrument in the educa-
tional process, the Gallery also shows eight to ten out-
side exhibits yearly, ranging from the bright and gay con-
temporary art of American Robert Goodnough to the
softly sacred art of Alfred Manessier.
Art exhibits are by no means confined to the campus.
The entire faculty is active in both national and regional
exhibits, and student work is gaining steadily in recogni-
tion and respect. This year Notre Dame art students
were represented in eight major shows throughout the
Midwest, and received several awards for their work.
Another faculty feature is the position of artist-in-
residence, created in 1955 for the late Ivan Mestrovic
and currently held by West Berlin sculptor Waldemar
Otto. Like his predecessor, Otto is at the University to
afford students an opportunity to watch a master at
work. The students visit the studio adjoining O’Shaugh-
nessy Hall to watch, study, question and absorb the at-
mosphere surrounding a man who is an established suc-
cess doing what the students are being taught to do.
Present art students are exposed to the influence
of both Otto and Mestrovic. In the studio, Otto’s ex-
pressionistic works in bronze evidence the stark emotional
drama for which he strives, while in the courtyard ad-
joining the studio, Mestrovic’s “Christ and the Woman
8 NOTRE DAME
at the Well and “The Two Evangelists” are monumental
regarded
DON MITTLEMAN
PHYLLIS McGINLEY
members
the great
reminders of the Croatian-born exile who
Notre Dame as his home.
Besides doubling the number of faculty
during the summer session to accommodate
influx of graduate students., the art department com-
missions two guest artists each year to share their speciali-
ties with the students. Enamelist Kenneth Bates, print-
makers Herbert Fink and Irving Amen, New York
painter Samuel Adler, and the University of Louisville’s
artist-in-residence Carl Holty are among those who have
visited the campus to cultivate new enthusiasm and ideas
in the students.
This richness and diversity of experience offered by
the Notre Dame art department deftly combine the
patterns of the past with the challenges of today and
tomorrow in a clear-cut purpose: to enable the artist
to develop and execute his concept of creativity in
lation to the total composition of humankind.

Honorary degree recipients at Notre Dame's 119th
Annual Commencement Exercises in June pose with
Father Hesburgh. They are, left to right: Repre-
sentative John E. Fogarty of Rhode Island; Thomas
C. Mann, Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-
American Affairs; John S. Gleason, Jr., Administra-
tor of Veterans' Affairs, Washington, D. C.; Raul
Cardinal Silva Henriquez, Santiago, Chile; Timothy
P. Galvin, Hammond, Indiana; Father Hesburgh;
Archbishop Miguel D. Miranda, Mexico City; Dr.
Charles Wagley, director of the Institute of Latin
American Studies at Columbia University; John J.
McCloy, chairman of the board of the Ford
Foundation; and Rafael Caldera, director of the
Christian Democratic Movement in Venezuela.
PHYLLIS McGINLEY
NAMED LAETARE MEDALIST
Poet Phyllis McGinley will receive the University
of Notre Dame’s Laetare Medal for 1964, and the
presentation of this medal will be made later this year.
Miss McGinley, who won the Pulitzer Prize for poetry
in 1961, is the 82nd recipient of the Laetare Medal
which is conferred annually on an outstanding American
Catholic layman. Among the 17 women who have been
honored are author-diplomat Glare Boothe Luce and
actress Irene Dunne. The late President John F. Ken-
nedy was the Laetare Medalist in 1961, and Admiral
George W. Anderson was the recipient last year.


MITTLEMAN TO
HEAD
COMPUTING CENTER
Dr. Don Mittleman has been appointed professor
of computing science and director of the Computing
Center at the University of Notre Dame.
Dr. Mittleman has been associated with the National
Bureau of Standards, Washington, D.C., since 1951 and
has been chief of its Computation Laboratory for five
years. His Notre Dame appointment is effective Septem-
ber 1st. He succeeds Dr. Louis Pierce who has been
serving as acting director of the University’s computing
facility since September.

T
re-
STUDENTS PRESENT $31,553 GIFT
Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C. (right), vice president for public relations
and development at the University of Notre Dame, accepts a check for
$31,553 from the incoming and retiring presidents of the student body.
They are John J. Gearen (left), Oak Park, III., junior, and David W.
Ellis (center) a senior from Vicksburg, Miss. They specified that income
from the student government gift be used for undergraduate scholarships.
The funds represent part of the proceeds of the students' Mardi Gras for
the past three years. The impact of the students' gift to the University
will be augmented 50°/o by a matching grant from the Ford Foundation
under terms of its Special Program in Education in which Notre Dame
is a participant.
NOTRE DAME NEWS
(Continued from page 2)
AUSTRIAN AMBASSADOR HERE
Dr. Wilfried Platzer, Austrian ambassador to the
United States, gave a public talk on “The Foreign Policy
of Austria” at the University in May. He spoke under
the auspices of the Committee on International Relations.
LIU AND AUTH AT SYMPOSIUM
Dr. Ruey-wen Liu and Dr. Leo V. Auth, assistant
professors of Electrical Engineering at Notre Dame, pre-
sented papers on “Self-Sustained Oscillations of CC Time-
Invariant Nonlinear Networks at Large” at the Seventh
Midwest Symposium on Circuit Theory at the University
of Michigan, Ann Arbor, in May.
LIBRARY FACULTY ADVISORS NAMED
The formation of a faculty advisory committee for
the new Notre Dame Memorial Library has been an-
nounced by Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., the Univer-
sity’s vice president for Academic Affairs.
Father Soleta said that Dr. Robert D. Nuner, head of
the department of modem languages, will lead the ad-
visory group.
The committee membership includes Prof. Louis L.
Stem, representing the College of Business Administra-
tion; Dr. A. A. Szewczyk, College of Engineering; Dr.
Donald P. Kommers, College of Arts and Letters; Dr.
Ernest L. Eliel, College of Science; and Dr. William V.
D’Antonio, The Graduate School.
Members-at-large, in addition to Dr. Nuner, are Rev.
Albert L. Schlitzer, G.S.G., Dr. Robert McIntosh and
Dr. Yusaku Furuhashi.
TWO WIN NSF GRANTS
Two University of Notre Dame graduate students have
been awarded summer research assistantships by the Na-
tional Science Foundation to continue their doctoral work
in mechanical engineering at the University. They are
Gary J. Hardemann, Spokane, Washington, and Charles
M. Lovas, Barberton, Ohio.
The assistantships were awarded in a national com-
petition of graduate students who were selected on the
basis of academic achievement and the merit of their
research investigations.
FIVE APPOINTED TO ADVISORY COUNCILS
The appointment of the five members to advisory
councils at the University of Notre Dame was announced
recently by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, G.S.C., Univer-
sity president.
Named to the Advisory Council for Science and Engi-
neering were J. Allan MacLean, president of the Dodge
Manufacturing Corp., Mishawaka, Ind., and William J.
Sweeney, consultant and former vice president of the Esso
Research and Engineering Company, Linden, N. J.
Paul M. Henkels of Henkels and McCoy, Philadelphia,
Pa., contracting firm, has accepted appointment on the
Advisory Council for the Liberal and Fine Arts.
William J. Quinn, president of the Milwaukee Road,
Chicago, Ill., has been named to the Advisory Council for
the College of Business Administration.
Thomas P. Ford, of the New York City law firm of
Sherman and Sterling, has been appointed to the Notre
Dame Law School Advisory Council.
FRENCH COUNSELOR SPEAKS
The counselor of the French embassy in Washington,
Jose Paoli, gave a public lecture on French foreign policy
recently at Notre Dame. He spoke under the auspices of
the University’s Committee on International Relations.
Paoli is the second in a series of foreign diplomats appear-
ing at Notre Dame this spring in a program supported by
a grant from the Sperry and Hutchinson Company. The
series opened March '2 with a talk by K. Heinrich
Knappstein, German ambassador to the United States.
ACKERT CO-AUTHORS TEXTBOOK
Hugh P. Ackert, associate professor of engineering
graphics at Notre Dame, is co-author of a new textbook,
Engineering Graphics—For Design and Analysis, pub-
lished by the Ronald Press Company.
JAZZ FESTIVAL IN SIXTH YEAR
The sixth annual Collegiate Jazz Festival at the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame in April attracted 11 big bands and
15 combos from colleges and universities from Maine to
Colorado.
Among the participants in the 1964 “New Stream of
Jazz” were Denver University, best big-band winner last
year, University of Michigan, Indiana University, Univer-
sity of Illinois, Urbana, Michigan State University and
Ohio State University.
Prominent jazz experts who served as judges for the
four sessions were Robert Share, Julian “Cannonball”
Adderly, Charles Suber, Gary McFarland, George Russell
and Oliver Nelson.
STAUDER COMPLETES COURSE
Professor Lawrence F. Stauder, of the Notre Dame
department of electrical engineering, recently completed
a course in Modern Control Theory at the Rand
Corporation in Santa Monica, California. Professor
Stauder was among 100 engineering educators invited to
10
NOTRE DAME
take part in the program, sponsored by the National
Science Foundation.
HOLD LIBRARIANS CONFERENCE HERE
The University of Notre Dame and Valparaiso Univer-
sity were hosts to about 300 members of the Midwest
Academic Librarians Conference on April 17 and 18.
The Conference members toured the Notre Dame
Memorial Library, and attended a panel discussion on
“Book Selection for Colleges” in the Memorial Library
auditorium.
FISCHER GIVES OKLAHOMA LECTURES
Edward Fischer, associate professor in the Department
of Communication Arts at Notre Dame, lectured on
“Techniques for Writing Documentary Motion Pictures”
April 21 and 22 at the University of Oklahoma.
The lectures, held at the Oklahoma Center for Con-
tinuing- Education, were offered to film makers with at
least two years of professional experience. The sponsors
are the University of Oklahoma, the United States Air
Force, the National Press Photographers Association and
the World Book Encyclopedia.
SAXE ATTENDS SYMPOSIUM
Dr. Harry C. Saxe, head of the civil engineering de-
partment at Notre Dame, attended the Third Plowshare
Symposium on Engineering with Nuclear Explosives at
the University of California, Davis, in April. Lawrence
Radiation Laboratory, Livermore, Calif.; the American
Society for Engineering Education (ASEE) ; the Amer-
ican Nuclear Society; and the University of California
sponsored the Symposium in cooperation with the U.S.
Atomic Energy Commission.
HOFMANN GIVES REILLY LECTURES
Dr. Klaus Hofmann, celebrated for his work in syn-
thesizing ACTH, delivered a series of five P. C. Reilly
Lectures at Notre Dame from April 20 to May 1. He is
professor of biochemistry and chairman of the biochem-
istry department at the University of Pittsburgh School
of Medicine.
LOBUND GETS ULTRACENTRIFUGE
A Spinco ultracentrifuge, “vital” to cancer research
at Notre Dame, has been acquired by its Lobund Labo-
ratory through a $7,100 grant from the Delaware County
(Ind.) Cancer Society.
Professor Morris Pollard, director of the famed germ-
free animal research center, and Mrs. Ethel Vlaskamp,
executive secretary of the society, Muncie, Ind., an-
nounced the grant.
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION WINS AWARD
The University of Notre Dame has won the Grand
Award for Improvement in the 1964 Alumni Giving In-
centive Award competition. Accordingly, a $5,000 cash
award will be presented during the American Alumni
Council’s 49th General Conference in Denver, July 14 at
the Denver Hilton Hotel.
LEADER GIVES ART TALK
Robert Leader, of the Notre Dame department of art,
recently addressed the Art Education Association of Indi-
ana at the Morris Inn on the Notre Dame campus. A
painter and specialist in liturgical art, he has designed
stained-glass windows for several churches in the Midwest.
CANON GABRIEL IN POLAND
Rev. A. L. Gabriel, director of the Mediaeval Institute
at Notre Dame, participated in the 600th anniversary
celebration of the founding of the University of Cracow
in Poland on May 6-13.
Father Gabriel, who is currently on leave as the
Charles Chauncey Stillman Guest Professor of Roman
Catholic Theology Studies at Harvard University,
addressed a symposium on “The History of the Uni-
versity of Cracow and Other European Universities” at
the Polish observance. He also spoke on “The Pictorial
History of Mediaeval Universities.”
TWO WIN KENT FELLOWSHIPS
Two Notre Dame graduate students have been
awarded Kent Fellowships, it was announced by the
Danforth Foundation, St. Louis, Mo., and Reverend
Paul E. Beichner, G.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School.
Phillip F. O’Hara, graduate student in English from
Floral Park, N.Y., and Stephen Bruce Clark, graduate
student in philosophy from Miami Shores, Fla., are
among 32 men and women who have been awarded
Kent grants this year. The recipients, selected from 400
applicants, were chosen “for their remarkable promise
as leaders within higher education in North America.”
BARR GIVES FINAL O’HARA LECTURE
Andrew Barr, chief accountant, Securities and Ex-
change Commission, delivered the final Cardinal O’Hara
Memorial Lecture of the 1963-1964 series at Notre Dame
on April 29.
Barr discussed “The Role of the Accountant in the
Administration of the Securities Acts.” He also conducted
a faculty seminar on “Current Accounting Problems.”
DeSANTIS SPEAKS IN WASHINGTON
Professor Vincent P. DeSantis, head of the history
department at Notre Dame, lectured on “Political Perspec-
tives” at George Washington University, Washington, -
D.C., April 21 and '2'2.
BETA GAMMA SIGMA INITIATES 13
Thirteen juniors in the College of Business Admin-
istration at the University of Notre Dame were initiated
into the Indiana Beta Chapter of Beta Gamma Sigma,
national business administration honor society, in April.
They are: Jeffrey D. Biel, Sparta, Wisconsin; Michael
Kerin Cook, St. Joseph, Michigan; Karl Grant King,
South Bend, Indiana; Terry O. Meek, Springfield, Mis-
souri; Michael D. Murphy, Flossmoor, Illinois; Thomas
John Nahm, Indianapolis, Indiana; Thomas Numainville,
San Bernardino, California; Edward D. Orsini, Detroit,
Michigan; Philip J. Purcell, Salt Lake City, Utah; Wil-
liam J. Schmuhl, Michigan City, Indiana; Richard V.
Sowa, Chicago, Illinois; J. Stephen Van Heyde, Co-
lumbus, Ohio; and Valee H. Wiggins, Portmouth, Ohio.
JIANNONE GETS GRANT
Dr. Richard Jiannone, assistant professor of English
at the University of Notre Dame, has been awarded a
post-doctoral research grant from the American Philo-
sophical Society to complete work on his book, Willa
Cather and Music. He will spend the summer doing re-
search in the municipal archives at Lincoln and Red
Cloud, Nebraska.
11


Mr. Norman R. Gay
Box 1413
Notre Dame, Indiana
Few formal sports events occur at the University of Notre Dame
during the Summer, because of vacations. Thus, our cover depicts
typical Summer sports, although they are actually engaged in
during the Spring and Fall Semesters.
Notre Dame's Swimming team, under the Fine tutelage of Dennis
Stark, compiled a record of 6 wins and 5 losses. The Sailing team,
now two years old, placed well in all the 1964 regattas, thanks to
Al Buenagel, Jim Culley and the fine crews of the A & B teams.
The oldest coach on the Notre Dame staff is Clarence "Jake"
Kline, Professor of Mathematics and Baseball coach at Notre Dame
since 1934. This year's Kline men won 16, lost 12 and tied 1.
In Golf, the team coached by Rev. Clarence Durbin, C.S.C.,
compiled a record of 20 wins and 4 losses and in Cross Country,
thanks to Coach Alex Wilson, the long distance runners
came up with 3 wins and 0 losses.
Each and every one of these Notre Dame athletes have bolstered
the spirit of "the tradition of great teaching and great competition"
at Notre Dame — with your help, they will continue to do so.
Since Notre Dame began, more than 120 years ago, the spirit
of sports and physical development has permeated the University
and its men.
The tradition of great teaching — and great learning — is ex-
tended in the athletic arena, as well as the classroom at Notre Dame.
In order to extend this tradition for all Notre Dame men of the fu-
ture, the new Athletic and Convocation Center is an integral part of
the Challenge II program. It will provide headquarters for all sports,
and give students much needed, year-round facilities for every
athletic endeavor.
For additional information on this new building as well as the
other important portions of Notre Dame’s $18,000,000 Challenge II
program please write:
The University of Notre Dame Foundation
P. O. Box 555
Notre Dame, Indiana