
*
i
V
v

A liberal educator may take several
lines of approach to the subject of
education in the world today.
He may take a critical, patronizing
look at all other kinds of modern edu-
cation, weigh them in the balance, and
find them wanting. The next step is to
conclude that all forms of education,
other than liberal education, are not
truly educative and that, therefore, he
alone, with others of his kind, are truly
educating students. This is what I
would call the complacent approach.
Another common approach to lib-
eral education in the world today is to
assume that it alone prepares students
to face and to respond successfully to
the crucial challenges of our times. This
I would call the slogan approach. Un-
fortunately, like the four freedoms for
all the world, or the earlier, war to end
all wars, the desired goal is not ob-
tained by the mere enunciation of the
slogan. Nevertheless, this approach
still gives aid and solace to many lib-
eral arts educators, even though the
problems loom larger and more crucial
and more frustrating every day despite
the presence of ever-increasing numbers
of liberal arts graduates in the modern
world.
A third approach to liberal education
in the world today is to accept and to
bless it in its totality, for the above and
other like reasons, but mainly because
liberal education has been with us foi'
a long span of centuries, back to the
Greeks, as the saying goes. Liberal
education has been the standard equip-
ment of many very respectable people
and, therefore, should continue to be
in the present and future, as it has been
in the past, the hallmark of respecta-
bility. I would call this the snobbish,
or old family approach. Even more
than the other approaches, this repre-
sents a very uncritical look at liberal
education in the world today.
I think that the characteristic and
traditional values of liberal education
should be restudied in the light of all
the developments that have further
complicated man’s life since the Mid-
dle Ages. Complications need not be
cursed, for they too may lead to the
good life if understood and used wisely.
I would underscore the need for unity
of knowledge in our day, so that hu-
manists and scientists, philosophers and
theologians can begin to talk to each
other instead of only to themselves. I
would lastly suggest that our heritage
of Christian culture may provide us
with a workable key to the integration
of the new and the old in liberal edu-
cation. At least it provides us with a
basic and unified view of man and his
God, man and his world, man in the
face of objective truth and value — all
of which is largely garbled, disinte-
grated, and fragmented in much of
liberal education today.
Liberal education, true to its best
traditions, flexible in assimilating all
that is humanly valuable in education,
can be a great directive and inspira-
tional force in the world. But liberal
education still has to find itself, despite
the great changes, within and without,
if it is to survive, much less light a
beacon in the darkness.



r
4
ADDRESSES
Jr
GRADUATING
CLASS
£ ,
the occasion
\N
and RECEIVES
HONORARY DEGREE
k*
and listened
of the cere-
persons. Thousands more watched
to television and radio broadcasts
monies.
The June 5 program was also
it,
l*U'
President Dwight D. Eisenhower received an
honorary doctor of laws degree and delivered
the commencement address to Notre Dame's 115th
graduating class at exercises held on the Mall
before an impressive campus audience of 10,000
by John NL Caekley,
r
PUSIDmi
hwhower
VIGflKWO
DUL-SPGS


for awarding doctorates to His Eminence Giovanni
Battista Cardinal Montini, Archbishop of Milan
and celebrant of the Baccalaureate Mass; Dr.
Thomas A. Dooley, famed jungle surgeon in south-
east Asia and N.D. alumnus; Archbishop Martin
J. O’Connor, Rector of the North American Col-
lege in Rome, Italy; Dr. Victor A. Belaunde.
President of the United Nations General Assembly
and Peruvian diplomat; Mr. J. Peter Grace, Jr.,


"<«*'*'**
’ A
"A	*
* ”8 -
Dr. Holland, Dr. Dooley, Dr. Gould and Dr.
Cardinal Montini presents the
Laetare Medal to Dr.
Shuster.
leader
name,
Jabbing back verbally at Communist
Khrushchev, without mentioning him by
Honorary degree recipients and Laetare Medalist pose with. Father Hesburgh. First row (L. to R.): Laetare Medalist
Dr. Shuster, Archbishop O’Connor, President Eisenhower, Father Hesburgh, ~Cardinal~Montini and Dn Belaunde.
"	" Sontag.
Second row (left to right): Dr. Waterman, Mr. Grace,
president of W. R. Grace and Company, New
York City, and a member of the University’s
Associate Board of Lay Trustees; Dr. Laurence
M. Gould, President of Carleton College, North-
field, Minn.; Dr. Alan T. Waterman, Director of
the National Science Foundation, Washington,
D. G.; Dr. Kenneth Holland, President of the
Institute of International Education, New York
City; and Dr. Raymond J. Sontag, Chairman of
the Department of History, University of Cali-
fornia, Berkeley.
The 1960 Laetare Medal, given annually to
an outstanding American Catholic layman, was
presented to Dr. George N. Shuster, retired presi-
dent of Hunter College in New York City and a
former student and teacher of English at Notre
Dame.
In a 20-minute address President Eisenhower
especially urged those with college training to ac-
cept civic responsibilities and emphasized that “we
need intelligent, creative, steady political leader-
ship as at no time before in our history. There
must be more talent in government — the best
our nation affords. We need it in county, city,
state and Washington.”
Governor Harold W. Handley of Indiana and Father
Hesburgh greet the President at St. Joseph County Airport.
Mr. Eisenhower asserted that “the enemies of
human dignity lurk in a thousand places — in
governments that have become spiritual waste-
lands, and in leaders that brandish angry epithets,
slogans, and satellites. But equally certain it is
that freedom is imperiled where peoples, worship-
ping material success, have become emptied of
idealism. Peace with justice cannot be attained
by peoples where opulence has dulled the spirit
— where indifference has supplanted moral and
political responsibility.”
The President said, “We do not want a gov-
ernment with a philosophy of incessant meddling,
which imposes a smothering mist on the sparks
of initiative. We do not want a government that
permits every noisy group to force upon society
an endless string of higher subsidies that solve
nothing and undermine the collective good of
the nation.” He continued, “We do want a gov-
ernment that assures the security and general wel-
fare of the nation in concord with the philosophy
of Abraham Lincoln, who insisted that government
should do, and do only, the things which people


cannot do for themselves.”
The President told members of the senior class
that, “I hope some of you will enter the public
service, either in elective, career, or appointive
office. Most of the top posts in government in-
volve manifold questions of policy. In these posi-
tions we have a particular need for intelligent,
educated, selfless persons from all walks of life.
“I believe that each of you should, if called,
be willing to devote one block of your life to gov-
ernment service.”
Mr. Eisenhower forcefully pointed out that
those who enjoy the blessings of higher education
have a special responsibility. He stated, “To
serve the nation well you must, for example, help
seek out able candidates for office and persuade
them to offer themselves to the electorate. To be
most effective you should become active in a
political party and in civic and professional or-
ganizations. In short, you should undertake,
according to your own intelligently formed con-
victions, a personal crusade to help the political
life of the nation soar as high as human wisdom
can make it.”
In reference to certain critics, the President
stressed that, “We ought not to make it inordi-
nately difficult for a man to undertake a public
post and then to return to his own vocation. In
the public service, one must obviously have no
selfish end to serve, but citizens should not, in-
variably, be required to divest themselves of in-

-
vestments accumulated over a lifetime in order
to qualify for public office. ... We need to review
carefully the conflict-of-interest restrictions which
have often prohibited the entry into government
of men and women who had much to offer their
country.”
The President, in commenting on those areas
shielded by the Iron Curtain said, “This is no
time to whimper, complain, or fret about helping
other peoples, if we really intend that freedom
shall emerge triumphant over tyranny.
His Eminence Giovanni Battista Cardinal Montini
of Milan was celebrant of the Baccalaureate Mass.
-
NOTRE DAME
VOL. 13, NO. 2, SUMMER, 1960
joyously play a pivotal part in the endless adven-
ture of free government. The vital issues of free-
Father Hesburgh conferred an honorary
doctor of laws degree on the President.
Published quarterly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre
Dame, Indiana. Entered as second class matter May 10, 1928.
at Post Office at Notre Dame, Indiana, under the Act of
August 24, 1912.
“Complicating the lives of all of us today we
know that in the dimly-lit regions behind the
Iron Curtain, eight hundred million people are
denied the uncountable blessings of progress in
freedom, and compelled to develop vast means
of destructive power. Elsewhere, among the un-
derdeveloped countries of the world, a billion
people look to America as a beacon that con-
fidently lights the path to human progress in
freedom.”
In concluding his remarks the President
stated, “We must insist that our educated young
men and women — our future leaders — willingly,

dom or regimentation, public or private control
of productive resources, a religiously-inspired or
an atheistic society, a healthy economy or depres-
sion, peace or war — these are the substance of
political decision and action. Neglect of our civic
responsibilities will be a greater danger to a free
America than any foreign threat can ever pose;
but an enlightened, dedicated people, studiously
and energetically performing their political duties
will insure us a future of ever-rising standards of
spiritual, cultural and material strength. These
duties and these opportunities must demand the
dedicated attention of all the people, especially
all who have so profoundly benefitted from our
vast educational system.
“My heartiest congratulations on the splendid
preparation the members of this graduating class
have received for exercising the leadership which
this great Republic must have as it faces the prob-
lems, the trials and the bright opportunities of
the future.”
The event was covered by more than 200 re-
porters, photographers, television and radio person-
nel, and a contingent of the White House press
corps.
President Eisenhower flew direct to South

Doctor of Laws, honoris causa
on
w

President Eisenhower and Father Hesburgh review honor guard consisting of R.O.T.C. students.
Bend from West Point, New York, where he was
attending the forty-fifth class anniversary of his
graduation from the U. S. Military Academy. He
returned to the Academy at the conclusion of his
speech to the Notre Dame seniors.
A tremendous welcoming crowd, estimated at
200,000, applauded the President along the seven-
mile route from the airport to the University.
Father Hesburgh, Governor Harold W. Handley
of Indiana, Mayor Edward F. Voorde of South
Bend, and other dignitaries officially met the
President when he arrived. Approximately 10,000
persons were at the airport as the presidential
plane, Columbine HI, touched down at 11:15 a.m.
The campus area set aside for the commence-
ment ceremonies was marked by a colorful display
of all 84 United Nations flags. Diplomas
presented to about 1,280 undergraduate
graduate students of the 1960 Class.
were
and
The President congratulates Dr. Dooley who
received an honorary doctor of science degree.
*<**”>*




Photographs by M. Bruce Harlan, ’49, Chief Photographer,
University of Notre Dame.
The University of Notre Dame
confers the degree of
the revered leader of his people and of the world’s
peoples desirous of freedom, justice, and peace on
earth. Among men everywhere today he stands
as the very image, the very embodiment of human
decency, integrity, and courage. More service and
sacrifice have been asked of him than of any other
citizen of his generation; and they have been
gladly and generously given. To lead the Allied
cause to the victory of the Second World War
was a stupendous achievement. But no less great
is his tireless and exhaustive effort in these dec-
ades to achieve the unity and community of free
countries in the face of immense dangers and to
direct American participation in the establishment
of moral principle and moral order in the violent
and confused society of the second half of the
Twentieth Century. We welcome him as the most
eminent and most popular statesman of his time;
and we hail him for the wisdom and the balance
of common sense with which he has conducted
■ the unimaginably complex affairs and borne the
awesome burdens and responsibilities of the highest
'office of our land. In the exercise of his office, he
'has given new form, new life, and new hope to
the present age. So we would honor him now,
with fullest warmth of confidence and pride,
because of the serene force of his realistic patience
and Christian idealism as he contributes daily to
the salvation of the nations. On
The Honorable Dwight David Eisenhower
President of the United States
NOTRE
DAME
University Employee
This year Edward J. Mahon will observe his fiftieth
anniversary as a loyal and valued employee of the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame. A native of Athlone, Ireland,
Eddie is currently in charge of the Chemistry Depart-
ment’s supply room and distributes thousands of chem-
icals and various pieces of laboratory equipment to stu-
dents in the College of Science.
Mahon has presided over the chemistry stock room
during the administration of eight Notre Dame presi-
dents. He has been “on the job” when many Notre Dame
men entered as freshmen and a few years later received
their doctorate degrees.
How Eddie Mahon came to Notre Dame a half-
century ago is a story in itself. Eddie was working
in a Dublin publishing house, he relates, when a priest
came in to order some books. The priest took some of
the books with him, but asked that the others be shipped
to him at Notre Dame. The priest, Rev. John W. Cav-
anaugh, C.S.C., then president of Notre Dame (1905-
1919), asked the young Irishman if he ever thought about
coming to America. Within the year Mahon sailed for
the United States, came directly to see the only Amer-
ican he had met, and has been at Notre Dame ever since.
In his early years at Notre Dame, Mahon was known
around the campus as an accomplished dancer. He ap-
peared in several campus shows and recalls that Rockne
himself was no stranger behind the footlights. Eddie
often appeared professionally on the stage in Ireland
and more than once was on the same program with
singer John McCormack, who, like Mahon, came from
Athlone. One of Eddie’s fondest memories is the occa-
sion in 1933 when his fellow townsman McCormack
came to Notre Dame to receive the Laetare Medal.
When Mahon arrived at Notre Dame in 1911, he
worked in the students accounts office and later had
charge of the waiters in the old refectory before taking
over his present post. Literally thousands of Notre Dame
men have passed through the University’s chemistry lab-
oratories during Mahon’s tenure. Eddie has never taken
a chemistry course and claims to know nothing about
the subject. But his patience and kindness have helped
many students who were discouraged when a complicated
experiment went wrong.
Mahon requires that all laboratory apparatus be re-
turned to the supply room “clean and dry.” Generations
of Notre Dame chemistry students have tried to return
equipment that was otherwise, but few have succeeded.
Occasionally, a glass vessel loaned to a student will break,
and sometimes the student will claim the equipment was
defective to begin with. According to a veteran faculty
member, Eddie Mahon will listen to the student’s story
with remarkable sympathy and patience — and then
charge him for the broken item!
The Mahons are a Notre Dame family if there ever
was one. Eddie married Annie Monahan in the campus
church and their four children were baptized and con-
firmed there. Their son Joe is employed at Notre Dame’s
Lobund Institute. A daughter, Sister Mary Mellita,
R.S.M., teaches at Grand Haven, Michigan. Another
daughter, Mrs. John Loritsch, is married to the manager
of General Electric’s chemical division who received his
Ph.D. at Notre Dame.
Tragedy came to the Mahon family in 1951 when
another son, Maury, a 1950 Notre Dame graduate and
an FBI agent, died in a plane crash. But even in re-
calling such a sad occasion, Eddie Mahon can still smile.
It was then that he received letters of sympathy from
scores of Notre Dame men in every part of the country
who came to know and admire the little Irishman in
the chemistry stock room.
Faculty members, students and alumni agree that
Notre Dame’s chemistry department wouldn’t be the
same without Eddie Mahon. It is men of his character,
spirit and devotion who in their own lifetime have helped
transform Notre Dame from a small obscure school in
northern Indiana to a university famous the world over.
5
by James E. Murphy
The author has been Director of Public Information at
the University of Notre Dame since 1952.
6 NOTRE DAME
Like few buildings on the campus, the Notre Dame
Library serves the entire University community. Just as
Sacred Heart Church is the center of religious life, the
library is the hub of academic activity. There, a fresh-
man only a few weeks out of high school rubs elbows
at the card catalogue with a postdoctoral student. Near-
by a Holy Cross priest reads The American Journal of
Sociology, and a lay professor makes notes for a technical
paper to be presented at a professional meeting. Quietly,
earnestly, students and teachers together go about the
business of a university: the pursuit of knowledge.
With the largest enrollment in its history as well as
stepped-up academic standards, Notre Dame has actually
outgrown its 43-year-old library. From breakfast time
until 10 p.m. its reading rooms are generally filled, and
when examinations are in the offing, it’s virtually “Stand-
ing Room Only.” Construction will begin next year on
a magnificent new library which is destined to have a
great impact on the University’s intellectual life for
decades to come. Even today one can see the indis-
pensable role the library plays on the college campus.
One can conceive of a fine library apart from a uni-
versity, but it is difficult to conceive of a truly great
university without a correspondingly great library.
What brings the student to the library? Most often
it’s a daily class assignment or a book “on reserve” that
The New Library
Architectural plans for the new library are being
prepared by Ellerbe and Company, St. Paul, Minn.
Notre Dame is confident that alumni, non-alumni
friends, corporations and foundations will contri-
bute generously when personally contacted by vol-
unteer workers during the year ahead.
Cost now is estimated at $8,000,000.
Construction to begin in 1961.
Seating for half of the student body at one
time.
Provision for DA to 2 million volumes.

must be read. Just about all courses at Notre Dame
require outside reading, and there are some courses that
have no texts, relying entirely on lectures and library
sources. According to a library aide, Carlton Hayes’
A Political and Cultural History of Europe is always in
great demand, and The Basic Writings of St. Thomas
Aquinas are a standard reference for students in theology
and philosophy courses.
Every Notre Dame student has to write several term
papers, perhaps a thesis, and it is next to impossible to
do so without recourse to the library. On one typical day
recently senior Paul Priebe, Rochester, Minn., was using
the Congressional Almanac for research on his thesis,
“Parity Policies on Agricultural Price Supports.”
At an adjoining table English major Bill Heaphy, Bridge-
port, Conn., was reading a Henry James novel in prepa-
ration for his thesis on the celebrated author. And across
the room, a nun enrolled in the Graduate School was
researching a term paper on “The New Deal” by scanning
The Secret Diary of Harold L. Ickes.
But books aren’t the only source of material at the
library, of course. In our fast-moving world, today’s
New York Times may be the most authoritative source
for information on school desegregation or the newest
satellite aloft. The Notre Dame library regularly receives
approximately 25 metropolitan newspapers and scores
of learned journals and periodicals. One library spokes-
man reports that students don’t have much time for rec-
reational reading, but they do drop by to check
Commonweal’s stand on a controversial issue or to
read the profile of a national figure in The New
Yorker. Students seem to enjoy particularly reading
microfilm copies of newspapers of fifty or a hundred
years ago.
Aside from class assignments, term papers and other
research, many students bring their texts to the Notre
Dame Library to study. Yves Dauge, a graduate ex-
change student from the University of Paris, spends
from 25 to 35 hours a week at the library. Henry Burns,
a Buffalo, N. Y., sophomore living in Morrissey Hall,
does most of his studying at the library nearby. For some
time, University authorities have- realized that Notre
Dame’s seventeen residence halls, filled to over capacity
and with the distractions of radio and TV sets, are not
ideal for serious study. The new library will probably
seat up to half the student body at one time.
Today, if you stand by the library’s main entrance
long enough, you’ll encounter all of Notre Dame stu-
dents, from Abel, Edward J., to Zywert, George B.
Their visits to the library will be for purposes as varied
as the University itself and all the branches of knowledge
it embraces. They may be looking up the properties of
AGTH or a text by Hendrik Zwaardemaker. Whatever
their mission, chances are, they’ll leave the library with
new facts or a different and more informed perspective
on some facet of the world about them.
7
KENNEDY
■SYMINGTON
TICKET NOMINATED
DY STUDENT BODY

J $
* \
Photo on left includes (from left to right)
Democratic National Chairman Paul M.
Butler, Senator Frank Church of Idaho and
Student Chairman Lawrence Turner. This
group addressed the opening session of the
Mock Democratic National Convention.
Adjacent photo: Mayor Richard J. Daley of
Chicago (extreme left) and Mayor Edward F.
Voorde of South Bend (center) addressed the
second session of the convention. Their daugh-
ters, Mary Carol Daley (left) and Frances
Voorde (right) both students at St. Mary’s
College, were among the 1,521 convention
delegates.
* * • »» * < . ’
> . "»	. t'
7 • .	* <
’ ’	r M *
In a colorful, mock Democratic national convention,
with Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students participating,
Sen. John F. Kennedy (D-Mass.) was nominated by the
delegates for president of the United States. The nomi-
nation for vice-president was won by Sen. W. Stuart
Symington (D-Mo.) with Governor Luther Hodges of
North Carolina and Sen. Frank Church (D-Ida.) trail-
ing in second and third place respectively.
Three days of speeches, lively demonstrations and bal-
loting featured the quadrennial event, sponsored since
1940 by the Academy of Political Science, a student or-
ganization, which has proved to be prophetic three out of
four times. The students nominated Franklin D. Roose-
velt in the spring of 1940, Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1952
and Adlai E. Stevenson four years ago. Their ticket in
1948 was Vandenberg and Warren whereas Thomas E.
Dewey later received the GOP nomination.
Democratic National Chairman Paul M. Butler, a
Notre Dame alumnus of the 1927 class, spoke to the
group at the opening session and gave outspoken sup-
port to the Negro campaign against segregated lunch
counters in some areas of the South. Part of the Mis-
sissippi delegation promptly walked out of the drill hall
while other Southern student delegations declined to
applaud.
The initial session was highlighted by numerous dem-
HA
onstrations and twice a band played the national anthem
in an attempt to quiet the participating student delega-
tions. The featured speaker at the opening session was
Sen. Frank Church who denounced the foreign and do-
mestic policies of the Republican national administration.
Other participants on the speaker’s platform included
Mayor Richard J. Daley of Chicago and Mayor Edward
F. Voorde of South Bend.
A student band rendered selections during the various
demonstrations for presidential candidates. For both
Illinois’ Stevenson and Ohio’s DiSalle it played “On
Wisconsin,” and for Sen. Church it struck up “Get Me
to the Church on Time.” A group of law students
attempted to demonstrate for a mythical character (it is
hoped) named Leonard Fingerman but their efforts were
promptly squelched by a sergeant-at-arms staff that in-
cluded uniformed Naval ROTC members.
More than fifty states and territorial areas were repre-
sented by the student delegates. In addition to cam-
paigning for Kennedy and Symington, other student
delegations were for ‘favored son’ candidates including
Governors DiSalle, Meyner, Brown, Docking and Wil-
liams, and Senators Humphrey, Johnson and Morse plus
former Democratic candidate Adlai Stevenson. Dr. Paul
Bartholomew, professor of political science, was faculty
advisor for the event.
^president
Jfjf1 A *	A",
. Eh t J





#4
intensified because
President this year,
more basis in fact
a Catholic may be a candidate for
Of course, the current attacks have no
than those of a century ago.
The possibility that a Catholic will be nominated for
president or vice-president this year has focused attention
on a number of questions about relations between Church
and state which are seldom discussed publicly in this coun-
try. Look magazine submitted a series of questions on
this controversial subject to Father O’Brien. His answers
are reprinted here.
Father O’Brien talks informally to a group of Mohammedans
at a street corner in the seaport city of Lagos, Nigeria. He has
just returned from a month’s stay in Africa where he conferred
with government and church officials concerning ways to de-
velop trained leaders for Nigeria.
How do you explain the fear of some Americans that the
separation between church and state will break down if
a Catholic is elected President? I believe this fear is
chiefly the result of a 12-year propaganda campaign by
an organization called Protestants and Other Americans
United for the Separation of Church and State, which
follows the same line of attack on Catholics the Know-
Nothings followed in the 1850’s. The campaign has been
Do Catholics agree that the relations between church and
o
state are of enough public interest to justify wide discus-
sion? Yes. We are disturbed only by the attempts to
make membership in any church — including the Catho-
lic Church — a political issue. This violates provisions in
our Constitution that religious faith should not be a test
for civil office. Such groups as the POAU stir up antag-
onisms and create tensions between citizens on matters
of faith. Such matters have no place in politics, but be-
long entirely to the realm of conscience.
What is the Roman Catholic view on the union of church
and state in this country? From the earliest days of the
Church in this country, Catholics have supported separa-
tion. Bishop John Carroll, first Catholic prelate in the
United States, said in 1790: “We have all smarted hereto-
fore under the lash of an established church, and shall
therefore be on our guard against every approach toward
it.” The Church has never deviated from that policy.
by Rev. John A. O’Brien, Ph.D.
The author is Catholic co-chairman of a commission
in the National Conference of Christians and Jews and
a prominent writer and speaker. For many years Father
O’Brien has been at Notre Dame and currently is Re-
search Professor of Theology. The St. Joseph County
(Indiana') Ministerial Association presented him with a
testimonial letter of gratitude for his action in defending
Protestant ministers against sweeping charges of com-
munism. Numerous articles written by Father O’Brien
have been published in Notre Dame magazine including
“Why Do Our Religions Fight Each Other?” and “Are
You Fair to Jews?”
Are Catholics merely going along with American public
opinion when they make statements favoring separation?
No. Catholics regard their own stake in separation as
higher than the stake of most other religious groups.
Why? Because Catholics are a minority in this country.
They have been a minority since the country began. Any
possible union of church and state in the United States
today would be between the Government and a federation
of Protestant churches — not the Catholic Church.
10 NOTRE DAME

Would Catholics still favor separation if they were no
longer a minority in the U. S.? Yes. Testimony from the
hierarchy supports this. On January 25, 1948, the late
Archbishop John T. McNicholas of Cincinnati said: “If
tomorrow Catholics constituted a majority in our country,
they would not seek a union of church and state. They
would then, as now, uphold the Constitution and all its
amendments, recognizing the moral obligations imposed
on all Catholics to observe and defend [it].” On a very
practical basis, it would be patently impossible for a slim
Catholic majority to impose its belief upon a numerous
and unwilling minority of Protestants. But more than
that, it seems fantastic to us to think that the ideal of
separation of church and state could be uprooted by
members of any religious faith. The tradition of separa-
tion is deeply entrenched and widely supported by all
religious groups.
+ i ★
Is it likely that the United States will have a Catholic
majority in the foreseeable future? No. In the most
roseate forecasts, it seems unrealistic to predict a Catholic
majority in this country.
+ i ★
How many Catholics are there in the United States now?
There are 39,505,475 Catholics who actually attend serv-
ices and support the Church, according to the latest
census. This does not include those of Catholic heritage,
tradition and baptism who do not regularly attend serv-
ices. Catholics make up about 35 per cent of the active
church population of the country, but a considerably
smaller per cent of the total population.
+ i ★
How fast is Catholicism growing in the United States?
In the last five years, 698,893 converts have been counted
in official tabulations. For the last ten years, the figure
is 1,291,454. A nationwide survey reveals that Catholics
are least active of all Christian groups in seeking to win
adherents in this country. Only 28 per cent of the Catho-
lics say they have made any effort to win converts, com-
pared with a Protestant average of 59 per cent. The total
increase from all sources — births, conversions, immigra-
tion— from 1948 to 1958 is 12,787,132.
Aside from its minority status, what other reason does the
Catholic Church have for favoring separation? Christ
said: “Render therefore unto Caesar the things that are
Caesar’s, and to God the things that are God’s.” Catho-
lics accept this as the principle for determining the re-
spective loyalties due to these two institutions. The state
is concerned with the material and temporal welfare of
its citizens, and the church is concerned with their spir-
itual life and their eternal welfare. There is no reason for
antagonism between the two institutions, but obvious
reasons for them to remain separate.
+ i ★
In the past, have unions between church and state worked
out well from the Catholic point of view? No. Without
regard to what the people of any other country believe,
American Catholics generally believe that the disadvan-
tages have always outweighed the advantages. Civil rulers
all too often sought to use the church (Catholic or non-
Catholic) for their own selfish ends. Supported by the
state, clergymen not infrequently became more the func-
tionaries of the government than of the church. Iden-
tification of tire church with the state caused citizens at
times to feel that they would have to war against both to
secure civil justice. Such uprisings inflicted great damage
upon the Catholic Church in France, Italy, Spain and
other countries at various times.
Do some countries today have large Catholic majorities,
but no union between church and state? Yes. Mexico is a
prime example. About 95 per cent of the citizens of
Mexico are Catholic, but the Church has no say-so in gov-
ernmental affairs. In France, another overwhelmingly
Catholic country, church and state are completely sep-
arated.
+ i ★
Does the Catholic Church in the United States take part
in politics? No. The Church as an institution does not.
No member of the hierarchy tells priests or nuns how to
vote. A priest is not permitted to tell his parishioners
how to vote. He is not allowed to endorse or denounce
candidates for public office from his pulpit. Like other
Americans, Catholics enter the polling booths as free citi-
zens, responsible only to their own consciences.
11
new horizon in adult education . . .

EXECUTIVE SEMINARS
By Franklin D. Schurz
Mr. Schurz
ness School Executive
The author is editor and pub-
lisher of the South Bend Tribune
and is the recipient of two aca-
demic degrees from Harvard.
Mr. Schurz is a director of the
Associated Press and of the
American Newspaper Publishers
Association. In 1959 he was the
winner of the Minnesota Award
for Distinguished Service in Jour-
nalism. Mr. Schurz serves on
the board of the Harvard Busi-
Council and is a member of the
National Defense Executive Reserve Unit.
Two evenings a month during the 1959-60 academic
year at Notre Dame, an unusual group of “students” filed
into the Golfers’ Lounge of the Morris Inn to attend a
special seminar class.
The “students” — 15 of them when all were present
— were not college beginners. Each was the president
or a policy-making officer of a major industry or business
located in the South Bend-Mishawaka area.
The classes were as distinctive as the men who at-
tended them and involved a two-hour discussion of a
reading assignment prepared beforehand. Topics ranged
from “Husband and Wife in Chaucer’s Marriage Tales”
to “Existentialism: A New Philosophy/’ and touching
in between on sculpture and the “Organization Man.”
The class meetings were both lively and to the point.
A discussion leader, usually an expert in the field, was
there to guide the talk and make sure no one strayed
too far from the subject. But the burden of inquiry was
on the class.
Known as the Executive Seminars of the University
of Notre Dame, they were the responsibility of Rev. John
J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former Notre Dame president,
and Dr. Frank L. Keegan, assistant professor in the
University’s General Program of Liberal Education. The
seminars were born, in Keegan’s words, “Out of the
conviction that the liberal arts and humanities should
12
NOTRE DAME
Discussion leaders of the Executive Seminars are
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., and Professor
Frank L. Keegan.
make their way in the world as well as in great uni-
versities.”
In setting up the program, Notre Dame was following
the belief that although many colleges and universities
are successful in interesting alumni and friends in their
building programs and athletic teams, few have explored
fully the opportunity of interesting supporters in the ac-
tivity most proper to academic life — learning.
Notre Dame decided not to undertake a large-scale,
adult education program. However, it had all the equip-
ment necessary for seminars, including the great books
of literature, history, philosophy, science and social
thought, and the teachers who knew how to make the
books come alive.
Among the businessmen who took part in the semi-
nar course were the presidents of several large manu-
facturing companies, a lawyer, two officers of a major
Midwestern financial institution, and the manager of a
missile-building division of a major U. S. corporation.
They shared a common intellectual need often felt
by men involved daily in the affairs of business and in-
dustry. For them, the seminars helped satisfy the need.
Most of the fields covered in the classes strayed far
from the world of business. They included the conflict
between abstract and realistic art, Greek tragedy, religion
in a free society, the “sacred cow” aspects of science, the
nature of higher education, psychoanalysis, and American
social thought.
Authors assigned for reading included Plato, Sopho-
cles, Chaucer, Jean-Paul Sartre, Albert Camus, Bertrand
Russell, G. K. Chesterton, Alexis de Toqueville, Sigmund
Freud and William Whyte.
An idea of the nature of the discussions can be gath-
ered from a review of one seminar, which considered
“Religion in a Free Society.” The meeting focused on
religious pluralism in contemporary America, and on
the role of the secular-humanist in American society.
After provisionally defining a secularist as one who
believes in man rather than God, or as a humanist who
rejects supernatural religion, the group agreed that the
secularist has political rights guaranteed by the Consti-
tution. One of the executives, in fact, suggested that
the First Amendment actually favors secularism in to-
day’s society.
Another consensus, on the other hand, held that the
secularist does not have a right to prevent non-discrimi-
natory religious teaching in the public schools. And it
was observed that this issue can make strange bedfellows,
with the secularist point of view often backed up by rep-
resentatives of orthodox religions, although for different
reasons.
The issue of a Catholic presidential candidate was
raised frequently in this discussion, but there was no
general agreement on the degree to which a candidate’s
religious commitment would affect his ability to win
votes. The businessmen agreed that it would seem safer
for a candidate to be affiliated, although not too inti-
mately, with a Protestant denomination than with the
Catholic or Jewish faiths.
Equally intriguing questions cropped up in most of
the seminars, even those involving such ancient philos-
ophers as Socrates and his unusual method of learning.
One reason was that seminar leaders were brought into
the meetings who had, in many cases, the knack of dis-
(continued on last page)
PARTICIPANTS IN THE EXECUTIVE
SEMINARS
Discussion Leaders:
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
Professor Frank L. Keegan.
Executives:
James F. Connaughton, President, Wheelahrator
Corp., Mishawaka, Indiana;
George C. Coquillard, Assistant Treasurer, Associ-
ates Investment, South Bend, Indiana.
John T. Harvey, Controller, The O’Brien Corp.,
South Bend;
Aaron H. Huguenard, Secretary, The South Bend
Tribune;
Jack B. Kubish, President, Great Northern Distri-
butors, Inc., South Bend;
J. Allan MacLean, President, Dodge Manufacturing
Co., Mishawaka;
Melvin L. Milligan, Secretary, Studebaker-Packard
Corp., South Bend;
John W. Nickum, President, American Trust Com-
pany, South Bend;
Arthur C. Omberg, General Manager, Bendix Prod-
ucts Division — Missiles, Bendix Aviation
Corporation, Mishawaka;
George O. Pfaff, Director of Marketing, Wheel-
abrator Corp., Mishawaka;
Franklin D. Schurz, Editor and Publisher, The
South Bend Tribune;
Wayne Singer, Vice-President, Associates Invest-
ment Company;
Philip A. Sprague, President, The Hays Corpora-
tion, Michigan City, Indiana;
Bernard J. Voll, President, Sibley Machine and
Foundry Corp., South Bend; and
John M. Wolf, Controller, Wheelahrator Corpo-
ration, Mishawaka.
13
The Notre Dame Law School recently sponsored a
conference on Civil Rights which featured as principal
speakers Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president
of the University and a member of the United States
Commission on Civil Rights, Senator Paul H. Douglas of
Illinois, Governor G. Mermen Williams of Michigan,
Deputy Assistant Attorney General John D. Calhoun and
various other congressional representatives. U. S. Repre-
sentative John Brademas of Indiana and Dean Joseph
O’Meara presided at conference sessions.
Three major civil rights areas were explored including
‘‘Protecting the Right to Vote” with an opening state-
ment of the problem presented by Prof. Harris L. Wof-
ford, Tr., of the Notre Dame Law School and former legal
JU?	iD
assistant to Father Hesburgh on the Civil Rights Com-
mission; Notre Dame Law Professor Bernard J. Ward
14 NOTRE DAME
outlined the problem of “Assisting School Desegregation”
in an opening statement; Professor Thomas F. Broden,
Jr., of the Law School faculty surveyed the problem of
“Equal Opportunity in Housing” as the third major
conference subject.
Senator Douglas predicted that tire current session of
Congress would enact some civil rights legislation, how-
ever, he warned that there is a question whether it will
be “a meaningful or a nominal bill.” He called for a
cooperative effort by all civil rights supporters to unite
on an effective bill in assuring the right to vote for all
Negro citizens. He expressed concern about the possi-
bility of undue delay that might arise under the referee
plan put forward by United States Attorney General
William P. Rogers. (Ed. Note — Following this con-
ference at Notre Dame the Civil Rights Act of 1960
was passed by Congress).
The senator said he felt that challenges and appeals
to the procedures by southern states might prevent any
resolution of the registration dispute until long after an
election. This proposal provides for the appointment of
referees by Federal District Courts in areas where a pat-
tern of discrimination against Negroes has been found.
The referees would conduct hearings on the qualifica-
tions of voters and report their findings to the court,
which would then consider the report and enter a decree
on the voter’s qualifications.
The Civil Rights Commission on the other hand has
proposed that the president appoint Federal Registrars to
qualify the voters where state officials will not do so.
These registrars would consider applications of citizens
claiming discrimination and would then decide on voting
eligibility.
Representing the Attorney General’s office Mr. Cal-
houn stated that the Justice Department does not oppose
Congress’s effort to spell out the procedures that will give
safeguards to assure the large registration of qualified
Negroes.
Governor Williams told the group that effective civil
rights legislation will have to accomplish more than
merely permitting Negroes to register in our states. He
said such legislation should offer encouragement to regis-
tration and that the responsibility for setting up some
federal plan for voter registration should be placed on
the president rather than on the courts because the judi-
cial process is too slow. Representative William G. Bray
(R-Ind.) one of three Hoosier congressmen at the con-
ference, spoke against placing this responsibility on the
administrative branch of government, saying that it would
be a tremendous problem.
Taking part in the Civil Rights Conference were, left to right,
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame
and a member of the U. S. Commission on Civil Rights; Senator
Paul H. Douglas of Illinois; and Deputy Assistant Attorney
General John D. Calhoun.
Conference participants included, left to right, U. S. Repre-
sentative John Brademas of South Bend; George M. Johnson of
Washington, D. C., a member of the Federal Civil Rights Com-
mission; and Governor G. Mennen Williams of Michigan.
It was pointed out that the three branches of federal
government — administrative, judicial and legislative —
are not working in accord to solve this important domes-
tic problem and one speaker strongly urged that the right
to vote be given every citizen who meets the age and
residence requirements of his state. Doubt was expressed
concerning the value of literacy tests in the denial of
legitimate voting rights, particularly since 90 percent of
all Americans are literate. In suggesting a constitutional
amendment providing for universal suffrage Father Hes-
burgh stated that this would demonstrate to one-third
of the world which is uncommitted in the struggle be-
tween East and West that we really believe in democracy.
Harold G. Fleming of Atlanta, executive director of
the Southern Regional Council, Inc., noted that it is
premature to think or hope that the Little Rock type of
resistance is at an end in the South. Endorsing the state-
ment by Professor George W. Foster, University of Wis-
consin Law School faculty member who recommended
a congressional resolution supporting the Supreme Court,
Fleming also added that the nation should be better in-
formed on the government’s desegregation resolve and
that “nowhere can this better be done than by the Execu-
tive branch of the federal government.”
Dean O’Meara stated that the one-day conference
was designed to stimulate discussion and offer an oppor-
tunity foi' an exchange of views among legislators, mem-
bers of law school faculties and other persons profession-
ally concerned with civil rights problems. It was par-
ticularly timely in that the conference was held on the
eve of the debate in Congress on the Civil Rights Bill.
An impressive group of approximately sixty lawyers, leg-
islators and others participated in the morning and after-
noon sessions. The conference closed with a reception
at the Morris Inn on campus.
15

The Ford Foundation has awarded the University of
Notre Dame a grant of $410,750 to inaugurate a new
graduate education program for the preparation of
secondary school teachers according to a joint announce-
ment by Clarence H. Faust, vice president of the Ford
Foundation, and Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., head of
the University’s department of education.
Notre Dame is one of eight colleges and universities
receiving Ford Foundation grants this year totalling $2,-
761,250 to help advance a national “breakthrough” in
the education of elementary and secondary school teach-
ers. The nation-wide program now includes 27 colleges
and universities which have already received support to-
talling $18,200,000.
Father Walsh stated the Notre Dame program, which
begins with the current summer session, will be conducted
in cooperation with nearby Saint Mary’s College, the
South Bend school system and other public and private
high schools in the area.
He said the program will recruit recent college gradu-
ates with bachelors degrees but little or no formal train-
ing in education and prepare them for a junior or senior
high school teaching career, including an Indiana state
license in a year and three months.
An essential part of the program, he continued, is
the experience of the student in teaching in nearby
school systems under the guidance of experienced
teachers.
South Bend School City Superintendent Alex Jardine
said that his Board of Education has pledged full co-
operation in the program and that it has been agreed
to take 14 of the program’s students as “intern” teachers
during the 1960-61 school year.
Students in the first cycle of the program will start
June 17 by attending the summer school session at
Notre Dame and finish their work, earning a master of
arts degree in teaching from the university, at the end
of the next summer session in August of 1961.
The program will be directed by Dr. Robert W.
Strickler, a specialist in educational administration and
a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1953. He is
a graduate of Grove City College in Pennsylvania and
holds advanced degrees from Saint Bonaventure Univer-
sity and Cornell University.
Strickler said that thirty men and women, who are
interested in high school teaching, have been accepted for
the first term of the program. During the initial sum-
mer session they will take six hours of graduate study in
English, modern languages, the social sciences, the phy-
sical and biological sciences, mathematics, music and art.
He pointed out that members of the University’s Council
on Teacher Education, representing all departments en-
gaged in teacher preparation, will serve as faculty mem-
bers and consultants in the new program.
During the 1960-61 school year, Strickler said, each
student will hold a teaching internship, observing class-
room instruction, teaching under the supervision of an
experienced teacher, and serving an apprenticeship to a
cooperating school. During the second semester of the
internship, he will be paid one-half of the salary of the
full-time beginning teacher. During this year of intern-
ship the student also will take University courses in “Prin-
ciples of the Teacher-Learning Process” and “Philosophy
of Education.” He also will participate in weekly semi-
16 NOTRE DAME
Dr. Robert W. Strickler, director of the new graduate education
program, confers with Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., head of the
University’s Department of Education.
some new students in certain academic fields may con-
tinue to be accepted.
The new program will not affect the present summer
school graduate program in teacher training which an-
nually attracts more than 300 students to the campus.
Father Walsh said it is hoped to increase enrollment in
the new program to 60 a cycle by the end of five years.
Requests for application forms and other information
should be sent to Office of the Director, Master of Arts
in Teaching, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame,
Indiana.
In 1956 Notre Dame was the recipient of a generous
$3,074,000 grant from the Ford Foundation to be used
for augmenting teacher salaries. Included in this over-
all total was an “accomplishment grant” of $1,177,000
specifically granted to Notre Dame for having provided
leadership in the “betterment of faculty salaries.” At
that time the Ford Foundation announced a total of
a half-billion dollars in grants to the nation’s privately
supported universities, colleges and hospitals. In relation
to the amount received Notre Dame was listed as one of
the top ten schools by the Ford Foundation which also
included Harvard, Yale, Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology, Princeton, Columbia and Chicago.
nars for his teaching area on the Notre Dame campus.
Following the second summer session, which will be de-
voted to six hours of graduate study in his major area,
the University will award a master of arts degree in
teaching to qualified participants.
The Ford grant to Notre Dame is to be spent over a
five-year period. Strickler said it will help defray admin-
istrative and other costs to the University, pay extra sti-
pends to supervising teachers in the cooperating school
systems and provide tuition grants or loans to needy
students.
Father Walsh said that the University has every con-
fidence that the program will become a permanent fix-
ture at Notre Dame and be financed by University funds
after the Ford grant is expended.
In discussing the program, Father Walsh emphasized
that the program is attempting to tap new sources in the
recruitment of secondary school teachers.
He said there is considerable evidence that many men
and women complete the college undergraduate work and
then decide that they would like to enter the teaching
profession. Normally many such persons lose this interest
in the profession when they learn of the many technical
education courses they must have to receive a provisional
teaching license in this state.
The new Notre Dame program, Strickler said, is de-
signed to give the student this technical training, plus
further training in the academic field at the graduate
level, as quickly as possible. Each student will be trained
to teach in the field in which he majored as a college
undergraduate.
Strickler said he has been assured by the state licens-
ing commission that regular state teacher’s licenses will
be granted to all students who successfully complete the
program.
Father Walsh said the new program will probably
replace much of the present undergraduate teacher
training program, which now graduates about 50 men
a year. Those now in the present program will be al-
lowed to complete their degrees, Father Walsh said, and
Executive Seminars
(Continued from page 13)
cussing the great ideas of earlier cultures in such a way
that they became challenging to modern men.
Some of these seminar “guests” were Francis X.
Bradley, acting administrative director of Notre Dame’s
Lobund Institute, and Sister M. Madeleva, C.S.G., presi-
dent of Saint Mary’s College and an expert on Chaucer.
Professor Robert A. Leader, a liturgical artist, led a dis-
cussion of art, and Dr. Louise Cuyler, head of the depart-
ment of Musicology at the University of Michigan, an-
swered questions at a lecture-demonstration on the music
of Beethoven and Bartok.
Each seminar lasted for two hours, usually with an
hour and a half of general discussion followed by infor-
mal conversations in small groups of participants. Semi-
nar leaders planned a series of questions focusing on the
main issues at stake in the session’s topic, and the gen-
eral discussions opened with a leading question and
closed with a summary of the evening’s conclusions.
In the question and answer part of the seminar, no
point of view was excluded and none was demanded.
Religion and politics, as the earlier example showed,
were not taboo.
The readings assigned to participants were short and
provocative, selected from ancient, medieval and modern
sources. All were made contemporary through applica-
tion to issues and problems of the day.
Along with intellectual stimulation, participants in
the Executive Seminars took away with them a new bond
between Notre Dame and the local business and profes-
sional community.
They completed the course agreeing, with Aristotle,
that “to learn gives the liveliest pleasure, not only to
philosophers, but to men in general.”
17


T7V0/f\*
* *£_
a >fim<‘ .\
lb
A
^7^
// i
i i
ib
•• t
«■ - .


;SB


'
1 ll
•j 11 'mH',
0^4 4 4 V I
hMiih
I si o 4"<’F-’r 11-
Wa
i**-?
Mr. Edward J
Tracey
State College, Pa
mjm
^Ijwm


JI JfdS^JMSO
iifitftBr
P?h^/i<t7 Hl
11 iifs J m

I' >! /
>'1
'"!
W ’’
*
Ml
fif ifiuM in>r iiiM
i i.i> / i tf
f'!
h iill
i f tMlllf
i
is^
