The NEED TO
IN HIGHER
The American Council on
Education, comprising 140
educational organizations and
more than one thousand edu-
cational institutions, is a center
of cooperation and coordina-
tion for the improvement of
education at all levels, with
particular emphasis upon high-
er education. Its Problems and
Policies Committee, composed
of distinguished educators,
from time to time prepares
and publishes statements on
issues that are of concern to
a broad sector of the Council’s
diverse membership and to the
American people generally.
The subject of the statement
that follows has been the pri-
mary focus of discussion at
three meetings of the Problems
and Policies Committee dat-
ing from June 1958. Several
drafts have been considered by
the Committee at these meet-
ings and through correspond-
ence; the final draft was
mailed to members in January
1959 and is published with
their unanimous approval.
A Statement of the Problems and Policies Committee
of the American Council on Education
A great and unique strength of American higher education stems
from the historic coexistence of strong private institutions and strong
public institutions. American society benefits from the maintenance
of both types, each at its best. Rivalry among institutions, and
between groups of institutions, is healthy when conducted in an
atmosphere of mutual respect. But generalizations which attribute
qualitative characteristics to institutions simply because they are
public or private go beyond the facts. There are strong institutions
and weak ones in both groups. Differences among the members
within a group are much greater than are differences between the
two categories. The strength and value of a college flow from what
it is, not from the category to which it belongs. It is as shortsighted
as it is false to promote one segment of higher education at the
expense of another.
American higher education is characterized by great diversity. Its
institutions vary strikingly in size, in length and kinds of programs
offered, in types of students enrolled, in emphasis on research, in
forms of control, and in sources of support. It is an article of our
faith, justified by our experience, that this diversity is a source of
strength because:
•	It provides a rich variety of opportunities for students and
for scholars of differing abilities and interests—and America
needs many talents trained for many purposes.
•	It distributes the management and control of the processes
of advanced education and research, and consequently mini-
mizes the chance that a particular pattern could ever be
centrally imposed upon the advancement of learning in this
country.
It stimulates healthy experimentation and competition in the
development of increasingly effective programs of instruction
and research.
The nature of the differences among kinds of institutions can be
and has been misrepresented. For example, it is simply not true
to say that large institutions inevitably ignore the importance of the
individual student; that small institutions necessarily represent qual-
2
NOTRE DAME
An Investment That Makes All
CLOSE RANKS
EDUCATION
ity; that private institutions are for the sons of the rich; that
institutional expenditures for good education are any less in a public
institution than in a private one; that one kind of American insti-
tution is “socialistic,” the other not; or that non-church-related
institutions are unavoidably “godless.” Such false antitheses defeat
understanding and jeopardize the honest rivalry which should char-
acterize healthy competition in a shared endeavor.
American higher education rests on the two pillars of quality and
quantity. If our democratic society is to survive, it must utilize fully
the abilities of each new generation. To assure appropriate educa-
tional opportunities for students of high academic ability is a vitally
important objective but not the only one. Our society must provide
opportunities through post-high-school education for the maximum
development of people with many kinds and degrees of talent.
Our rapidly changing needs for skilled manpower dictate the neces-
sity for more and better education at every level. Both the citizens
to be educated and the excellence of the educational process must
be the shared concern of all institutions, public and private.
Private institutions no less than public institutions are by their
charters dedicated to the public service. Private institutions receive
direct or indirect benefits from tax-supported programs of student
aid; many receive state and federal grants for research and other
purposes. Most public institutions have income from student fees
and individual donations; many receive substantial contributions
from industry and philanthropic foundations. Institutions of both
types enjoy tax-exemption because of their public purpose. Hence,
in terms of financial support, no institution is strictly private or
strictly public.
The times call for a greater investment in higher education as a
whole. The crucial issue is not how many dollars come from private
sources and how many from public sources but whether or not the
total of these dollars will be sufficient to meet the challenges colleges
and universities face. The basic choice for the people of our country
is between expenditures for higher education and expenditures for
other things. Financial support from all available sources must be
greatly increased. This objective can be achieved only through
vigorous, sustained, and united effort, based upon a deeper general
understanding of the purposes and aspirations of American higher
education.
Problems and Policies
Committee
American Council on Education
Nathan M. Pusey, President, Harvard
University; Chairman
Harry D. Gideonse, President, Brook-
lyn College
Margaret L. Habein, Dean, College of
Arts and Sciences, University of
Wichita
Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Presi-
dent, University of Notre Dame
Clai k Kerr, President, University of
California
Douglas M. Knight, President, Lawr-
ence College
J. W. Maucker, President, Iowa State
Teachers College
Joseph C. McLain, Principal, Mamar-
oneck (New York) Senior High
School
Leland L. Medsker, Vice-Chairman,
Center for the Study of Higher
Education, University of California
(Berkeley)
Quigg Newton, President, University
of Colorado
Julius A. Stratton, President, Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology
Logan Wilson, President, University7
of Texas
Members ex officio
O. Meredith Wilson, President, Uni-
versity of Oregon
Arthur S. Adams, President, American
Council on Education
Other Investments Worthwhile
3
You cannot truly know
a university
from a description of its physical assets
of brick and mortar, budgetary dollars,
numbers of staff and students. Within
limits, these are common to all univer-
sities.
It is the spirit behind all these things
that gives a university its true stature.
Consequently, I cannot tell you the full
story of Notre Dame without trying, in
some measure, to communicate to you a
sense of its spirit.
Nothing is more difficult to describe
than spirit, since spirit is by definition
intangible. We can only know it by what
it does, so I shall try to describe what
the University tries to do with the thou-
sands of young men who spend four of
the most important, formative years of
their lives with us.
I would like to summarize our task in
three points. We receive from parents a
boy of eighteen or nineteen. We hope,
first of all, to return him to them at
twenty-two or twenty-three a good mart.
We hope, secondly, that in his years with
us he will attain some measure of pro-
fessional competence, and, thirdly, that
he will return home endowed with a
sense of moral and social responsibility.
The result of training of both the
mind and will might be best described
as a good man, who is good in both
mind and will, because he knows what
God expects of him in life and he has
sufficient character to follow God’s will.
The second point in our efforts is to
educate our students to some measure
of professional competence. We are liv-
ing in an age of science and technology.
Many educators think that this should
indicate a purely vocational purposeful-
ness to education. To this extreme we
answer that all of us should learn, first
of all, how to be a man, with all that
implies.
At the other extreme, there are those
educators who shun vocational training
as though there were something immoral
about acquiring enough professional
competence in some specific area of
human endeavor to acquire a job and
mature in it after four years of college
education. Perhaps, it would be fair to
say that we try to stand between the two
extremes of this educational controversy,
and to build a good measure of profes-
sional competence on a strong base of
liberal education. We take this stand
because we think that only a liberal edu-
cation prepares a man to answer the
really important questions in human life.
This brings us to the third and last
manifestation of the spirit of Notre
Dame: We are trying to engender in
our young men a real sense of moral re-
sponsibility. We say this largely in refer-
ence to the social areas that will form
the context of our students’ lives follow-
ing graduation.
o o
In this atmosphere, a boy perceives
that he cannot merely think of himself
through life, that the social responsibility
of leadership is one of the greatest op-
portunities that America affords. We try
to develop this challenge of leadership
and to direct it towards the three great
areas that face our students upon gradu-
ation — marriage, business, and the
community.
These are important and difficult
goals: to produce good men, with pro-
fessional competence, and a sense of
moral and social responsibility, but what-
ever the difficulties, our goal at Notre
Dame can never be less than this. Nor
need it be more.




Notre Dame’s
first Finance and Industry
Forum
held
recently on campus as a University-sponsored public
service attracted more than two hundred people from
twelve states and Canada. They were informed about
the many facets of estate planning by a nationally-recog-
nized panel of six experts. In addition to the discussion
on estate planning in general a variety of othei' taxation
topics were explained including the use of trusts, deferred
compensation, and charitable foundations.
The panelists explored a hypothetical $1,679,500 es-
tate of a 56-year-old manufacturer. Estate planning au-
thorities who appeared on the program included Rene
Rene A. Wormser
A. Wormser, New York Citv
attorney and moderator of
the panel; William J. Casey,
William E. Murray and
Carbery O’Shea, attorneys
from New York City; James
F. Thornburg, attorney.
South Bend, Ind.; and
Robert J. Lawthers, insur-
ance executive from Boston,
Mass. Roger D. Branigin,
past president of the Indi-
ana State Bar Association
who practices law in La-
fayette, Ind., was the Forum
luncheon speaker.
Notre Dame was exceed-
ingly privileged to present such a distinguished panel of
the nation’s outstanding practitioners in estate planning.
Mr. Wormser is a senior partner in the law firm of
Myles, Wormser and Koch with offices in New York City
and London, England. He is a well-known author of
many books and other periodicals. He has written: Your
Will and What Not To Do About It, Personal Estate
Planning in a Changing World, Family Estate Planning,
NOTRE DAME	VOL. 12, NO. 2, SUMMER, 1959
Published quarterly by the Univeisity of Notie Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Entered as second class matter May 10, 1928, at Post Office at Notre Dame,
Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.
^CUSSED By
Slx NATIONAL
authorities on
and Wormser’s Guide to Estate Planning. Mr. Wormser
was formeily a member of the Planning Committee at
New York University’s Federal Tax Institute and he has
lectured on numerous occasions at this same institution
William J. Casey
on estate planning. Currently he is general chairman of
the Advanced Estate Planning Courses held bv the Prac-
tising Law Institute in New York. For several years he
served as general counsel of the House of Representatives
committee which was investigating foundations.
William L Casev received his undergraduate degree
from Fordham University and graduated from St. John’s
University with a bachelor
of law degree. He is with
the law firm of Hall, Casey
and Robinson in New York
City. Mr. Casey has lec-
tured in tax law at New
York University and is a
former special counsel to
the United States Senate's
Small Business Committee.
From 1950 through 1957 he
was a lecturer in taxation
law at the Practising Law
Institute of New York. Mr.
Casey is author of Tax
Sheltered Investments; Tax
Control; Estate Plans; Ex-
Life Insurance Plans. During
World War II he wTas chief of intelligence for the Office
of Strategic Services in the European Theater.
ecutive Pav Plans, and
The panelists discussed a hypothetical SI,679,500 estate of a 56-year old manufacturer which also included information on trusts, deferred
compensation and charitable foundations.
James F. Thornburg is an attorney and partner in
the law firm of Seebirt, Oare, Deahl and Thornburg,
South Bend, Ind. His background includes serving as an
instructor in business law as
well as a lecturer on law
and taxation of C.L.U. for
Indiana University Exten-
sion; also, he has lectured
in the law of trusts and the
law of federal taxation at
Notre Dame’s Law School.
Mr. Thornburg graduated
from DePauw University
with an AB degree and in
1936 was awarded a JD de-
gree from Indiana Univer-
sity. He was admitted to
practice in the United States
Tax Court in 1939. Mr.
Thornburg; is a charter life
underwriter in the taxation section. He is a member of
the American Bar Association, the Indiana State Bar
Association and Phi Delta Phi.
Carbery O’Shea is associated as a tax partner with
the law firm of Donovan, Leisure, Newton and Irvine
in New York City. He received his legal education at
Georgetown University,
graduating in 1929 with a
degree in law. For many
years Mr. O’Shea has been
on the Advisory and Plan-
ning Committees of the In-
stitute on Federal Taxation
conducted annually by New
York University, and he
has frequently served as
chairman and lecturer at
sessions of the Institute.
Mr. O’Shea is a member
of the Committee on Stock-
holders Relationships of the
Taxation Section of the
American Bar Association
the Liaison Committee of the
American Law Institute. He is a member of the Board
of Editors of the Practising Law of Institute publications.
Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
Carbery O’Shea
and also a member of
William E. Murray is a former chairman of the In-
come of Estates and Trusts Committee of the American
Bar Association. He is a
William E. Murray
tax partner of the law firm of
Jackson, Nash, Brophy, Bar-
ringer and Brooks in New
York City. He was tax trial
attornev for the Office of
the Chief Counsel of the
Internal Revenue Service.
Mr. Murray has lectured at
numerous tax institutes in-
cluding: University of
Southern California; North
Carolina Bar Association
Institute: and the Univer-
sity of Connecticut Tax
Institute. His writings have
included Short Term Trusts,
The Taxation of Trusts and
Estates, and Short Term
and Controlled Trusts, appearing in the A.B.A. Journal.
Mr. Murray received an LL.B, from the University of
South Carolina and was awarded the LL.M, from Har-
vard Law School.
6 NOTRE DAME
Opportunities Exist for Gifts to
i1 IflM khi
Robert J. Lawthers is
Services of New England
o
pany. with which he has
Robert J. Lawthers
Director of Estate Planning
Mutual Life Insurance Gom-
been associated for 39 years.
He is both an administrator
and a technician in the
fields of beneficiary and
ownership provisions of life
insurance policies and the
tax aspects of estate and
business planning. He ap-
pears frequently throughout
the country as a speaker at
tax institutes, estate plan-
ning conferences, etc., his
most recent appearances
having been on programs
of the Tulane Tax Institute
in New Orleans and the
Practising Law Institute in
New York. He has contrib-
Roger D. Branigin, past president of the Indiana
State Bar Association, was the featured luncheon speaker.
He was introduced by Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, G.S.C.,
Vice-President of Business
Roger D. Branigin
Affairs fox’ the University.
Mr. Branigin is senioi' mem-
ber of the Stuart law firm
in Lafayette, Indiana. He
graduated from Franklin
College with an AB degree
in 1923 and later received
a law degree from Harvard
o
Universitv. Mr. Branigin
has been a trustee of Frank-
lin College since 1937 and
is a formei' trustee of Pur-
due University. During
World Wax' II he served
as counsel to the Chief of
uted papers to a number of publications including the
Journal of Taxation, the C.L.U. Journal and TAXES...
the tax magazine.
Transportation of the Transportation Corps. His father
was a lawyer, three of his brothers are lawyers, one of
his sons is a graduate of Harvard Law School and the
othei' son
is a senior in the Michigan Law School,
o
(Continued on page 13)
Mr. Branigin, past president of the
Indiana
was the
State Bar Association,
luncheon speaker.
The Institute for
Business Planning, Inc.,
and Prentice Hall,
Inc., displayed material
written by Mr. Casey
and Mr. Worniser.


Education Through Estate Planning
7
The author is an assistant professor in the Depart-
ment of Geology. He received a bachelor of arts degree
from Colby College, a master’s degree from the Univer-
sity of Maine and has completed part of his advanced
studies at Johns Hopkins University for a Doctor of Phi-
losophy degree.
The Notre Dame Geology Department has gone
through many changes necessitating increased facilities
and additional space since it was established as a Depart-
ment in 1946. This past winter the Department moved
into new quarters previously occupied foi' many years by
the Sisters of Holy Cross. The limited space allotted to
Geology in the Main Building had long ago been filled,
and many fossil, mineral, and rock collections of the
finest educational value had to be stored away and, until
the present move, were not available to the students.
Some of these collections were gifts to the University
or specimens brought in by students and faculty who
gathered up usable items as they traveled over the coun-
try and even around the world. Father Alexander Kirsch,
who died in 1923, was perhaps the first and most ardent
collector. He was a biologist by training, but had more
than a passing interest in Geology. He studied marine
life at Woods Hole, Massachusetts, for many summers and
brought back to Notre Dame a sizeable portion of the
New England states in the form of fossil shells, glacial
pebbles, and granite.
Prior to World War II, geology and mineralogy were
offered as part of the mining engineering curriculum
taught by Professor (now Emeritus) Knowles Smith. The
Geology Department did not exist as such. Dr. Smith
also scores well as an ambitious collector and has left the
Department with ore samples from many of the country's
most famous mining areas, and especially from the copper
district of Northern Michigan.
During the presidency of Father (now Cardinal)
O’Hara, arrangements were made by foreign missionary
Rev. J. M. Rick, C.S.C.. for a collection of fossils and
rocks to be sent from India, a gift of their Geological Sur-
vey. More recently rocks were given by Capt. William
M. Hawkes, ’33, from his expedition to the Antartica.
And continually the process is repeated, the most recent
acquisition being asbestos samples collected by a student
last summer from a newly opened Canadian mine.
At a Communion breakfast on the occasion of the
dedication and blessing of the Geology Department’s new
quarters. Rev. Chester Soleta, C.S.C., vice-president of
academic affairs, pointed out the tradition of service es-
tablished bv the Sisters of the Holv Cross during their
many years in the Convent Building. In inheriting the
physical structure where the Sisters labored so selflessly,
the Department also hopes to capture the spirit of their
dedication to Notre Dame. But its dedication is of a dif-
ferent sort. Notre Dame must produce worthy students
in a world of science and technology where the “current
of events’’ and new ideas flow so rapidly that a person
must “paddle rapidly” just to stay where he is!
i; e n i. ii ii i
AwmIIIIIeq
•FA--
ills


8 NOTRE DAME


0
f
STHE1TS
QUARTERS
by William M. Fairlay
•W7
ZT
Thus far the record is good. In the past 13 years, 64
men have received their degrees in Geology. Most are
employed by oil companies, a few in mining geology, sev-
eral are in graduate school, and two teach at well-known
universities. During the present school year, 41 students
are majoring in Geology. The ratio of students to faculty
is ideal, the staff being composed of five men whose dif-
ferent training and backgrounds represent a cross-section
of the various fields of geology. Research leading to pub-
lication is actively engaged in, the students sometimes
working with the professors on various projects. The
American Association of Petroleum Geologists furnished
eight speakers to the Department during the past school
year. The American Geological Institute through the Na-
tional Science Foundation also sponsored a visiting lec-
(Upper left) Mr. Fairlay stresses a point at the blackboard.
(Below) Geology Department head, Raymond C. Gutschick
(third from left), meets with members of his staff including
(from left to right) Mr. Winkler, Mr. Fairlay, Father Michael
Murphy and Mr. MacAlpin.
turer who spent three days at the Department discussing
phases of economic geology.
To increase enrollment, especially in certain programs,
and to gradually develop a graduate school are ambi-
tious tasks for the future. A student may earn a degree
in geology in one of three ways, each with distinctive
course requirements. He may be registered in the School
of Arts and Letters, and take relativelv fewer science
courses and more humanities; he may be registered in
the College of Science and concentrate on scientific sub-
jects; or he may take a combined Civil Engineering-Geol-
ogy degree. This combined degree requires five years of
study, but offers the student a maximum of job oppor-
tunities in the fields of engineering dealing with dam
foundation and highway construction, and in mining and
quarrying. The program is new and more students could
be enrolled in it without taxing the Department’s facilities.
To develop a Geology program in the Graduate
School will be quite difficult. No Catholic university of-
fers the Doctorate in Geology. Indeed, very few offer any
degree in Geology and only one offers the master's. The
reason for so little graduate work being given in Catholic
schools probably stems from a lack of financial aid. The
equipment for research and advanced studies is moder-
ately expensive, although not nearly so costly as the
materials required in the fields of atomic and rocket re-
search. It is hardly necessary to point out the need for
graduate work in any modern science as all thinking peo-
ple are aware of it. In the Department’s new location
there is adequate space to develop an outstanding pro-
gram in training the geology major and other students
seeking a general background in “science of the earth.”
(Below right) Some of the forty-one students who are majoring
in Geology at Notre Dame during the current school year.
//////:
Today at every class change it is quite normal to see
Cadets, clad in the Army Green, moving sharply across
campus to and from all the Colleges and the Army Sci-
ence Building. This comes as no surprise since the enroll-
ment in the Army ROTC at Notre Dame now numbers
over nine hundred and forty cadets.
The present Army ROTC program (known as the
General Military Science program < was developed in the
Department of the Army and pioneered by Notre Dame
in 1952-54 through the efforts of Rev. Robert AV. Wood-
ward, C.S.C.. Director of Military Affairs, with the
sanction and support of the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh.
C.S.C., President. This program superseded the Engineer
Unit installed in 1951 (cf: Vol 4, No. 4. Notre Dame
December-January 1951-1952) and has since been adopt-
ed by eighty percent of die Colleges offering the Army
ROTC program. Unlike the Engineer and other “branch
material'5 programs, a cadet graduating after four years
in the GMS program may choose and may be commis-
sioned as a Reserve Officer in one of the branches of the
Army closely akin to the field of his academic major.
Thus the voung officer mav often enhance his knowledge
and gain experience in his civilian profession while serv-
ing on active duty with the Army.
The present Army ROTC program at Notre Dame
is elective and provides training and practical experience
11

MSSu
CoL Grenelle “swears in” Stephen B. Pietrowicz,
graduating senior, as a Second Lieutenant.
in leading and commanding men as well as instructing
them in subjects common to all branches of the Army.
Included in the theoretical instruction are such subjects
as: Characteristics and Employment of Weapons (includ-
ing missiles and nuclear weapons); Methods of Instruc-
tion; Evolution and Principles of Warfare; Organization
and History of U. S. Army; Combined Arms Operations;
Military Justice; Command and Staff Functions and
Logistics. After being commissioned in the Army Reserve
the young officer is sent to a service school of his branch
where he acquires the special and technical knowledge
required by his branch assignment.
Starting in 1951 with a strength of one hundred and
fifty-five cadets, Notre Dame’s Army ROTC Corps has
steadily gained strength and now ranks third in the na-
tion among elective Army ROTC Units, and includes
over one-sixth of the University’s undergraduate students.
The co-curricular cadet activities include: the Cadet Bri-
gade of twelve companies, commanded by Cadet Colonel
Joseph R. Cornell, Jr., a senior from Boise, Idaho; the
Sorin Rifles, a twenty-man rifle team; a Drill Team of
thirty-two men; a Band of thirty-five pieces; the Sorin
Cadet Club, of four hundred members; a Military Mu-
seum and Library and a newssheet, The Guidon. The
Department of Military Science is supervised, instructed
and administered by an Active Army Detachment of six
officers, one warrant officer, six enlisted men and three
civilian employees. Since the fall of 1956 the Detach-
ment Commander and Professor of Military Science and
Tactics has been Colonel Edwin W. Grenelle, Infantry.
He is assisted by Major James M. Huddleston, Major
George G. Grace, Captain John J. Brady, Captain John
J. Fatum, Captain Michael A. Fucci and GWO Samuel
S. Simon. Since 1953 the Military Science Department
has commissioned four hundred and thirty-nine Second
Lieutenants in the United States Army Reserve and thir-
teen in the Regular Army. An additional one hundred
and twenty-five will earn commissions this year, repre-
senting approximately one percent of the total ROTC
graduates in the Nation in 1959.
o
Military training was established at Notre Dame by
Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., in 1858 and the first com-
pany of seventy cadets (the “Continental Cadets”) was
organized under Cadet Captain William F. Lynch in the
Spring of 1859. Thus, Notre Dame prepared her sons to
assume leaders’ roles in the war which followed four
years later. Most of the cadets entered the Army at the
outbreak of the war and soon became officers. Outstand-
ing among these were William F. Lynch ’62, and Robert
W. Healy ’62, who became Brigadier Generals. In 1864
the War Department sent Colonel Elmer A. Otis, 7th
U. S. Cavalry, to institute a course in Military Science
for the Cadets.
After the close of the War Between the States, the
Cadet Corps was again organized and in 1880 achieved
Federal recognition under Rev. William Corby, C.S.C.,
President. The Cadet Corps was again reorganized in
1885 and the seniors were called “Hoynes Light Guards”
while the juniors retained the designation of “Sorin
Cadets.”
From the humble beginnings of 1859 Notre Dame’s
military program has indeed provided a wealth of train-
ing for her sons and enabled them to fill the Army lead-
ers’ role in the Spanish-American War, and World Wars
I and II.
The objectives and endurance of a proud military
tradition at Notre Dame were recently reaffirmed in the
words of Father Hesburgh when he said:
“Since its foundation, one of the first aims of our
University has been to train her sons in the art of gov-
erning men; for, by the time they graduate, they will
have developed strong convictions and high ideals fired
with an enthusiastic desire to impress these upon the per-
sons and events of their times.
“To fully realize this objective, we have complement-
ed our academic curriculum with the Reserve Officers’
Training Corps program. Thus, our students are afforded
the opportunity of becoming accomplished leaders both
in times of national emergency and in the peaceful pur-
suit of their chosen professions.
“It is through this means that our sons are developed
as leaders who will be guided by principle rather than
by self-seeking. This we believe is the true mark and
measure of a Christian and a gentleman.”
12
NOTRE DAME
. . . many deserving young men need
the BISHOP SHEEN
SCHOLARSHIP
donated by
Mr. and Mrs. John J. Bundschuh
A scholarship honoring Bishop Fulton J. Sheen has
been established at the University of Notre Dame by Mr.
and Mrs. John J. Bundschuh of New York City.
According to Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, C.S.C., University
vice-president of business affairs and chairman of the com-
mittee on scholarships, the Bishop Sheen Scholarship will
be awarded to a Notre Dame undergraduate who is con-
sidering studying for the priesthood in the Congregation
of Holy Gross. An initial grant of $1,000 for the 1959-60
school year will go to Jerry G. Florent, a senior in the Col-
lege of Arts and Letters, from Michigan City, Ind., Father
Wilson said. He explained that a principal fund is being
established to provide an annual grant of $1,000 or more.
His Excellency is Auxiliary Bishop of New York and
has been a frequent visitor to the Notre Dame campus
for many years. On numerous occasions he has been a
principal speaker at various University functions. In 1941
he preached the baccalaureate Mass to Notre Dame’s
graduating class and was awarded an honorary doctor of
laws degree at Commencement exercises,
o
Bishop Sheen is recognized as one of the world’s out-
standing speakers and has conducted many programs over
radio and television networks. His Excellency was edu-
cated at St. Viator College, Kankakee, Ill., and at St.
O j	J	j
HI :!
»■
II
II
II
His Excellency poses with Mr. and Mrs. Bundschuh.
Paul’s Seminary, St. Paul, Minn. He took additional
studies at the Catholic University of America, the Univer-
sity of Louvain (Belgium) and Angelico University in
Rome, Italy. He is the author of various books including
“Lift Up Your Heart,” “Thinking Life Through” and
“Life Is Worth Living.” Bishop Sheen has been extreme-
ly active as the national director of the Society for the
Propagation of the Faith.
Mr. and Mrs. Bundschuh, who are personal friends
of Bishop Sheen, expressed tire hope that the scholarship
winners persevere in their studies for the priesthood and
emulate the qualities and ideals of the New York pre-
late and especially his devotion to Oui' Blessed Mother.
The Bundschuhs operate J. M. Louden, Inc., a firm of
consultants and advisors in corporate financial matters.
Their son, John J. Bundschuh, Jr., is a 1954 Notre Dame
graduate and is assistant vice-president of the company.
The elder Bundschuh is a director of several firms includ-
ing B. T. Babbitt, Inc., Eastern Industries, Inc., the Buck-
eye Corp., Stylon Corp., and the Redondo Tile Corp.
He is a board member of Our Lady of Consolation Home,
Amityville, N. Y.
Finance and Industry Forum
(Continued from page 7)
The estate planning panel discussed in detail various
facets of the “Mr. Simpson Case.” It was brought into
account the fact that the manufacturer’s wife was unable
to manage her own finances. She also was attached to
“an odd Eastern Cult” and her husband fears that she
may be unduly influenced by its adherents. Mr. Simpson
also wished to make provisions in Iris estate for three sons,
one of whom is a partial incompetent, and two daughters,
one of whom is unlikely to marry. Others included in
the estate are an orphan grandchild, an aged mother-in-
law and the manufacturer’s alma mater. Mr. Simpson’s
total debts and obligations amounted to $85,000. An
analysis was made of tire liquidity requirements using
the full marital deduction as well as no marital deduction.
The more than 200 persons in attendance included
attorneys, bank officials, representatives of public and
private foundations, corporation executives, accountants,
investment counselors, life underwriters and government
officials.
CORRECTION
The editor regrets that an alphabetical error occurred in the listing of a contributor to the University of Notre Dame as
printed in the Spring, 1959 issue (“Corporations and Foundations Aid Higher Education at Notre Dame”). The correct
information should have read as follows:
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Foundation, Inc., Partners of, New York, N. Y.
Our sincere apology to a loyal and generous friend of Notre Dame.
f	'
financial aid to attend college
13
by Robert N. Dempsey
The author graduated from Notre Dame as a political
science major with the Class of 1959. He will attend the
University of Chicago this Fall on a Woodrow Wilson
National Fellowship. Mr. Dempsey is from New Ulm^
Minn.
Following their annual banquet held recently, the
Notre Dame Debate Team marked the conclusion of 60
years of intercollegiate forensic activity. Clashing again,
as they did in that first meet in 1899, Notre Dame and
Butler University came together in an exhibition debate
to highlight the anniversary and express the friendship
which the two schools have shared through their many
years of competition.
From these early days when the University would
engage in only one or two intercollegiate debates a year,
the Debate Team has progressed to the point where it
has an active organization of forty debaters participating
in over 200 tournament debates a year and numerous
exhibitions before thousands of people. The overflowing
trophy case in the Forensic Room of the LaFortune
Student Center testifies to the success of the Notre Dame
Debate Team throughout its years of intercollegiate
competition.
Throughout the years the debate topics have not
varied greatly, despite the other numerous changes in
style and format. In 1905, in a match against Oberlin
College, Notre Dame debated the question of whether
labor and capital should be compelled to settle their
disputes through legally constituted boards of arbitration.
Last year the topic dealt with the controversy over
“right-to-work” laws. These annual topics, determined
by a polling of the debate coaches from the various col-
leges and universities, usually concern political and
economic questions, and in past years have included the
question of the admission of Red China to the United
Nations, the guaranteed annual wage, and the discon-
tinuance of economic aid to foreign countries. The na-
tional debate question for this year was, “Resolved: that
the further development of nuclear weapons should be
prohibited by international agreement.”
The Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C., distinguished
himself in the collegiate debating sphere in the early
years of Notre Dame forensic activity. He served as
debate coach from 1910 until 1928 and kept Notre
Debate coach Leonard Sommer (center) with incoming debate
president Gerald Goudreau (left) and Robert Dempsey, retiring
president. They are standing in front of plaques won by the
Notre Dame team.
Dame rising in the field of debate. Under the direction
of Father Bolger the interhall teams were molded into
the first university-wide debate team. From a group of
from 50 to 60 students who took part in elimination
rounds of competitive debating, he selected eight for his
varsity team.
During this period the scope of debate began to
widen. The duration of the debate season up to that
time lasted approximately three to four weeks. The
season gradually lengthened as interest increased and
budgets expanded until today the official season begins
in October and ends in early May.
In 1925 another step was made that would be in-
strumental to the progress of debate at the University.
The Wranglers, now the oldest club on campus, were
formed as a supplementary debate unit. Father Bolger
was the first honorary president of the Wranglers. This
group immediately rejuvenated the traditional custom
of interhall debating among campus halls, and again
revived campus oratory. The Wranglers worked to such
an extent that within two years (1927) the Notre Dame
team debated the University of Sydney, Australia, to a
capacity audience in Washington Hall. Interhall debat-
ing, under the guidance of the Wranglers, increased the
interest and importance of Notre Dame debating.
From 1928 to 1933, the Rev. Francis J. Boland,
G.S.G., a former outstanding debater and professor of
economics, assumed the coaching position of the team.
14 NOTRE DAME
Outstanding Record Achieved by
Joel Haggard (left) and Maurice O’Sullivan inspect the debate
team trophy case. Haggard holds the championship cup of the
Brooklyn College National Invitational Tournament, won this
year for the third time by Notre Dame.
Forty Students Compete
in over Two Hundred
Tournaments Annually
Father Boland later became Dean of the College of Arts
and Letters at the University.
Succeeding Father Boland was a man who had dis-
tinguished himself at the University as a student — Prof.
William J. Coyne who held the position until 1942 when
debating at the University stopped for the duration of
World War II. Professor Coyne had been the first win-
ner of the Dome award (the highest ranking student
award given by the University) and had served as first
president of the Wranglers.
With the end of the war came the reorganization of
the Notre Dame Debate Team and the resumption of
intercollegiate debating under the direction of Prof.
Leonard F. Sommer who has continued in that capacity
for the past fourteen years.
Faced with many obstacles after the war, Professor
Sommer was compelled to begin forensic activities on
a small scale. Despite these difficulties, however, the
debate team soon grew in numbers as well as proficiency.
Aided by increasing University funds, the Notre Dame
Debate Team was enabled to travel long distances to
participate in national tournaments. By 1948 the debate
team was not only competing in these tournaments but
also showing a consistent record of victory. Under Prof.
Sommer Notre Dame teams have won 2,210 debates and
lost 469 up to this date. In this time they have qualified
eleven times for the national championship tournament
held at West Point.
In 1953 Prof. Sommer started Notre Dame’s own
National Invitational Debate Tournament, which hosts
each year approximately forty of the top debating
schools throughout the United States. Such schools as
Army, Navy, Miami (Fla.), Duke, South Carolina, Mar-
quette, Northwestern, Utah, Brooklyn, Pittsburgh,
Merchant Marine Academy and the Air Force Academy
make it a point to attend the Notre Dame Tournament
each year.
Debate has come a long way since its inception in
1899. In the first issue of the Dome published in 1906
one can find the following statement. “Debating has al-
ways formed a part of the curriculum at Notre Dame.
Richard Schiller (right), assistant debate coach, congratulates
incoming vice-president John Whitney for winning first place in
the Notre Dame National Invitational Debate Tournament
in 1959.
Today Notre Dame is prepared to pit the strength of
her forensic program against that of any school in the
country.” Fifty-three years later this continues to be true.
The University debaters are proud of their national
reputation. But their pride is not centered in victory
for its own sake, but in the realization that their success
contributes to the living tradition which has bound Notre
Dame debaters together for 60 years — the tradition of
winning for Notre Dame.
Affirmative and Negative Teams
15

Problems of Immigration
Are Outlined In Recent
Notre Dame Symposium
The impact of immigration on American Catholicism
was explored at a symposium held recently at Notre
Dame. The sessions were a continuation of an earlier
symposium on “Roman Catholicism and the American
Way of Life.” The University’s history department and
the Faculty Seminar in American Civilization sponsored
the two-day program.
“The Immigrant and the City” was discussed by
three Chicagoans at the opening session. Saul D.
Alinsky, a sociologist and co-founder of the Back of the
Yards Neighborhood Council, spoke on “The Urban
Immigrant.” Rev. Rollins Lambert, of St. Dorothy’s
Church, chose “The Negro and the Catholic Church”
as his topic. “The Latin-American Catholic Immigrant”
was the subject of Rev. Gilbert Carroll, coordinator of
the Cardinal’s Committee for the Spanish Speaking in
Chicago. Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of
Notre Dame’s history department and director of the
symposium, presided at the opening session.
The second symposium session was concerned with
“Complications of Language and Tradition.” Judge
Juvenal Marchisio, national chairman of the American
Committee on Italian Migration, New York City, dis-
cussed “The Italian Catholic Immigrant.” The problems
of the Polish immigrant were described by the Very Rev.
Msgr. Aloysius J. Wycislo, assistant executive director
of the Catholic Relief Services of the National Catholic
Welfare Conference, New York City. Rev. Colman
Barry, O.S.B., professor of history at St. John’s Uni-
versity, Collegeville, Minn., analyzed the status of “The
German Catholic Immigrant.” Presiding at the second
session was Dr. John J. Kane, head of Notre Dame’s
sociology department.
“The More Permanent Aspects of the Immigration
Problem” were studied at the final symposium session
held under the chairmanship of Prof. Aaron I. Abell of
the Notre Dame history department. The Very Rev.
James P. Shannon, president of St. Thomas College,
St. Paul, Minn., spoke on “The Irish Catholic Immi-
grant.” Dr. Willard E. Wight, of the department of
social sciences at Georgia Institute of Technology,
Atlanta, discussed the relationships of “The Native-Born
American Catholic and the Immigrant.” The final sym-
posium paper, “The American Histoiian Looks at the
Catholic Immigrant,” was presented by Dr. Vincent P.
De Santis, associate professor of history at Notre Dame.
Father Lambert, a convert to Catholicism, said that
the Catholic Church is particularly appealing to Negroes
because of its “universality” and its extensive educational
system.
“The Church has been gaining a name for itself
among Negroes in that it accepts all classes of people,”
Father Lambert said. He claimed that many non-Cath-
olic parents want their children to have a Catholic edu-
cation “to protect them from the vicious conditions often
prevailing in Negro neighborhoods. The parents cannot
escape these conditions by moving away,” he observed,
“so they give their children religious training.”
Sharing the platform with him were Mr. Alinsky and
Father Carroll.
Saul D. Alinsky
John J. Kane
Rev. Rollins Lambert Rev. Gilbert A. Carroll Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C.
Willard E. Wight
i
I
According to Father Lambert, there are two major
obstacles to the conversion of the Negro. He-j cited the
attitude of many white Catholics “who offer no en-
couragement or inducement to join the Church, or even
rebuff prospective converts because of their racial pre-
judices.” Another difficulty, he said, is that many
Negroes have contracted second marriages after divorce.
This is adultery, according to divine law, and such per-
sons cannot become Catholics, Father Lambert asserted.
“Despite such obstacles,” the Negro priest predicted,
“the day is arriving when the catholicity of the Church
in America will be evidenced not only by its diverse
nationalities from European nations, but by numerous
dark-skinned members as well.”
Alinsky told the symposium that the so-called “na-
tional neighborhoods” in our big cities were destined to
disintegrate following the end of immigration in 1929.
Only the depression and the housing shortage of World
War II delayed the inevitable process, he said. The
Chicago sociologist contended that present population
shifts such as the mass migrations of Negroes to the
north or of Puerto Ricans to the west are not responsible
for the disappearance of “neighborhood stability.”
Alinsky said that “tremendous advances in transpor-
tation and communication” also have affected the so-
called “stable community.” These developments, he
said, “have extended the horizon of interest of many
persons whose interests, habits and religion previously
had been relatively circumscribed within their local physi-
cal community.” He declared that all institutions,
whether they be political parties, labor unions, or
churches, “can no longer afford to think in terms of the
past, a past which was marked by isolation and
separatism.”
Father Carroll, who works among Chicago’s 30,000
Puerto Ricans and 70,000 Mexicans, declared it is “not
enough” for the Church to provide sermons in Spanish
and arrange for confessions to be heard in the Latin-
Americans’ native tongue.
He described a program, now underway for three
years, in which approximately 2,000 Puerto Ricans in
Chicago have been organized into eight clubs. These are
not primarily religious clubs, he stressed, but are in-
tended to deal with all the needs of their members.
The Puerto Rican clubs, he said, give their members
“a sense of community” and help them get certain things
done that they couldn’t get done alone.
The problems of the Mexican community in Chicago
are being approached differently with organization from
the top rather than from the grass roots, Father Carroll
said. He pointed out that there has been a sizeable
group of Mexicans in Chicago for one hundred years
and that there are many third generation Mexicans in
the city. Accordingly, the Church has helped organize
the Mexicans’ own organizations into a federation of
religious, social, cultural and athletic groups. The fede-
ration, he said, has given Mexicans “a better name” in
Chicago and helped them carry out city-wide programs
and activities.
“Catholicism, the traditional faith of Poland, has
been the most important force in the shaping of Polish-
American life,” according to Msgr. Wycislo.
Msgr. Wycislo said Polish Catholics of older genera-
tions found theii' religion a “unitive force” which “had
its influence in the Catholic Church in the United States,
which recognized a difference in customs that were never
alien to the substance of faith.”
For the Pole of later generations, he stated, religion
“has been an integrating force.”
“A new generation of priests is leading the Polish
Catholic, formerly so attached to his language and cus-
toms, to new acquaintance with the customs and prac-
tices of other groups.” Older Polish-Americans, he
added, view with alarm the loss of language and custom,
but the new generation insists “our faith is the faith of
our fathers; its doctrine and practice are the same; we
have reshaped our tools to fit the way of life in America.”
He termed “significant” the fact that “second and
third generation Poles in the United States, most often
Catholics without special ties, came forward with the
greatest number of offers of homes and job opportunities
for the displaced persons and refugees who formed the
latest surge of immigrants to our shores.
“Here the common bond of faith was expressed in
action toward those helpless victims of the last war, whose
language and customs were alien to those of their
sponsors.”
The New York priest suggested that Polish immi-
grants who came to America as refugees in recent years
were “luckier than (their) predecessors of a hundred
years ago” because they “came to a land where the
years had indeed refined the process of acceptance and
identification.”
Rev. James P. Shannon	Aaron I. Abell	Vincent P. DeSantis	Rev. Colman Barry, O.S.B. Msgr. Aloysius J. Wycislo Juvenal Marchisio
Let’s Face the Facts
on College Finance
One of the stern rules of commerce says that a busi-
ness stands to make more money as it attracts more cus-
tomers; build a better mousetrap and you’ll get rich from
crowds that beat a path to your door. With proof of this
formula’s success strewn from one end of our economy
to the other, it’s understandable that people tend to look
toward the campus with a questioning eye. In spite of
a record 3,250,000 enrollment — in fact, because of it, to
judge from their claims — colleges are sailing troubled
financial waters. And nothing unnerves an educator
more than the prospect of this attendance doubling
by 1970.
On the surface of it, someone seems to be fumbling
a golden chance for profit. But in this case the symp-
toms are misleading. Educators are not the poor busi-
nessmen they might appear, since in truth they aren’t
businessmen at all and never intended to be. Service, not
profit, is their goal. Colleges are less concerned with get-
ting money out of a customer’s pocket than with putting
knowledge into his head, and they’re determined to hold
that aim even if it bankrupts them.
It might, too, since they currently foot most of the
bill. Private schools pay an average of 45 per cent of
each undergraduate’s expenses; state colleges pay about
82 per cent. The combined college students of this coun-
try are charged only one-third the cost of the education
they receive. (These figures exclude room and board,
which are usually provided at cost.) A committee ap-
pointed by President Eisenhower to investigate the situ-
ation found that teachers are stuck with most of the
deficit. By working for disgracefully low wages, they “do-
nate” $800 million a year to their students. This is over
$3,500 per teacher. “The plain fact is,” the committee
reported, “that the college teachers of the United States,
through their inadequate salaries, are subsidizing the edu-
cation of students, and in some cases the luxuries of stu-
dents’ families, by an amount which is more than double
the grand total of alumni gifts, corporate gifts, and en-
dowment income of all colleges and universities com-
bined.”
How come? If, as surveys indicate, a bachelor’s de-
gree carries with its larger rewards the promise of an
extra $100,000 in lifetime earning power, why should
those who supply it have to pay for it as well? Obviously,
they shouldn’t, and the fact that they do shows the need
for a clearer public understanding of what’s going on.
This, in a nutshell, is the situation: Few students (or
their families) can pay for an education while they’re get-
ting it. If tuitions were raised to meet expenses, only the
richest — and not necessarily the best — scholars would
survive. Therefore, colleges quietly make up the differ-
ence between the price and the price tag, and hope to
be remembered when students emerge from their lean
years. Unfortunately, it doesn’t always work that way.
After receiving their sheepskins, many graduates quit
town never to be heard from again, leaving in their wake
an institution impoverished by their stay and that much
less equipped to give future students a proper schooling.
If this sounds like a man running off with a dish-
washer before making the payments, that’s a fair analog}-,
but there are two differences. First, an education can’t
be carted back to the store and resold; and second, an
alumnus isn’t always aware that there are payments in-
volved.
For this latter condition, colleges willingly accept the
blame. Until recently, they failed to publicize the debt
incurred by earning a degree. Why? for one thing, en-
dowment income, alumni contributions, and community
support often kept pace with expenses, so there wasn’t so
great a burden. For another, teaching is a proud pro-
Copyright 1958, Meredith Publishing Company, Des Moines, Iowa
18
NOTRE DAME
America’s Progress Depends
fession not given to dunning graduates or begging for
handouts. In short, the schools preferred to suffer in si-
lence rather than play the nagging creditor.
But there is a limit to how much even a teacher will
endure, and since the recent growth in enrollment has not
been accompanied by a comparable rise in revenue, some
important changes are being made.
As a first step, colleges are advertising how they
finance every education, explaining that without the as-
sistance of Alma Mater there would be far fewer students
than there are. Hopefully, they think this might touch
alumni consciences and increase their gifts — or, more ac-
curately, that more alumni will face up to their debts.
Some schools have started classes in college finance.
Teachers, administrators, and undergraduates talk over
the economic facts of life — not only to encourage gen-
erosity in the future, but to help students appreciate their
education now. Early returns have been encouraging. A
number of new graduates, for instance, now take out
low-payment life insurance policies naming their college
as beneficiary. But not all of them keep up the payments,
and even when they do the school can’t expect to get the
money for many years. What happens in the meantime?
There are several possible solutions, one of which
might be called “Learn Now, Pay Later.” This plan
would boost tuition to ease the teacher’s burden, with stu-
By Gordon Greer
Heprinted from Better Homes & Gardens magazine
dents financing their education by long term loans. How-
ever, there’s a natural reluctance for banks and loan as-
sociations 'to lend money to men and women with no se-
curity and an uncertain future, and since higher tuitions
will probably wait until all students who need creditors
find them, this project might be some time coming.
Outright federal aid enjoys some popularity, and so
does indirect aid through tax exemptions to students or
their families, but not much of it comes from government
officials or educators. Private colleges are anxious to
maintain their independence, and many legislators think
its enough that the public already supports about 60 per
cent of all college students through state taxes. If there
is to be federal aid, majority opinion seems to favor a
loan fund, with the government acting as creditor for
needy undergraduates.
How about scholarships? One camp says there aren’t
nearly enough to go around, another camp says that
nevertheless there are already three times too many. The
first judgment is both obvious and true. The second is
equally valid, though, since most grants cover only the
student’s share of expenses, not the college’s. Aimed at
helping students to get a good education, straight tuition
scholarships really make it increasingly hard for colleges
to give one. Fortunately, many awards are now divided
equitably between the school and the scholar, but this in-
creases the drain on the donor and sharply reduces the
number of recipients.
Make no doubt of it: colleges need every cent they
can get, and all of these plans will help, as will several
other similar ones. But neither singly nor in combination
will they do the job. To stay on their feet, schools need
more vigorous support from students — past, present and
future. Those who reap the greatest benefits from higher
education are being asked to play a bigger role in financ-
ing it, and this, after all, is as it should be.
Roughly 20 per cent of today’s alumni make regular
contributions to their Alma Mater; 80 per cent do not
(45.8% of Notre Dame’s alumni contributed $695,620 to
the University in 1958). In addition to those who still
aren’t fully aware of their debt, this large majority of
non-contributors holds a few graduates who honestly
can’t afford the expense. But most of. them just don’t
want to. There seems to be a variety of reasons. Some
of the guilty parties apparently face such a backlog of
neglect that they’re afraid to tackle the job of making
amends, preferring to carry the burden of troubled con-
sciences. Others seem to consider it a mark of their own
cleverness that they slipped through school at reduced
fare, and summarily reject any moral or financial claims.
Not only du colleges have to plead for what little cash
they get from these people, but not infrequently they
have to stand still while the old grads tell them how to
spend it. Only with the firm promise that it goes to a
pet project will some alumni part with their money —
money they probably made as a result of an education
they never paid for. And, regrettably, the needs of the
school are often subordinate to any fame that might at-
tend the gift. So it is that a vain alumnus often invests
in shiny buildings (which have bronze plaques holding
contributors’ names in dubious immortality) rather than
in shabby teachers (who so far haven’t started to wear
sandwich boards advertising to the world their former
students’ generosity), disregarding the more desperate
need on most campuses for adequate faculty pay.
There was a time in this nation’s history when all it
took to combat problems of this magnitude was to make
them known. -With freedom’s taste fresh on men’s tongues,
there was little danger of apathy competing with action.
The way of life born in that spirit now faces a crisis that
must be met in that spirit. America’s survival — and
mankind’s — seems more and more to hinge on the abil-
ity of our colleges to develop people clever enough to
devise instruments of awesome power and wise enough
to use them properly. Since the effectiveness of the col-
leges depends on public support, the real question is
whether or not we are too bored with freedom to take
steps that might assure its continuation.
While the rest of us think it over, while we juggle
issues, weigh pros and cons, and leisurely ponder whether
or not to chip in, the teacher sticks to his thankless task
of holding our colleges together on chewing gum and
bobby pins. For this we should be humbly grateful. It is
no small thing in these’ times for a man to throw up his
chance at fame and fortune so that someone else’s son
might get a decent education.
Upon Higher Education
19
*?
*
a

«

&

TOTAL — $66,600,000
Administrative Special Funds
*5,000,000
NOTRE DAME’S
1958-1967
PROGRAM
One of the major categories in the general
appeal
p
3
development program consists of an
totaling $5,000,000 for ‘administrative
funds’. Approximately 1,600 men and
comprise the University’s lay staff. Just
women
as it is
tion-to-duty of an experienced lay administra-
tive staff.
Notre Dame's progress during the past 117
years has been aided by many factors including
dedicated service of the priests and brothers of
it
Wlr
« ww
£
_	-J?
«j t v* m
adlay Avenue.
College


1.	Endowment for Increased Faculty Salaries	S27.000.000
2.	Contributions for Research	$11,000,000
3.	Student Aid .		..$ 5,000,000
4.	Special Funds for Administrative Purposes 		. $ 5,000,000
5.	New Buildings 	 		$18,600,000
	Additions to a) Commerce .. ...... b) Law 		.... .... c) Engineering 					S 500,000 . $ 500,000 .. $ 500,000
	Library	. 				 (2) Graduate Halls 			 Priests' Faculty Building.. Maintenance Center . ..... Auditorium . ... 		 Fieldhouse —.. . 		. $5,000,000 . $2,500,000 ... $1,500,000 ... $ 600.000 $3,500,000 . S4,000,000
In 1958, Notre Dame announced a goal of
$66.6 million to provide the University with
required financial support in the forthcoming
decade. At that time Father Hesburgh stated
that “we look with confidence to our alumni
and friends, to corporations and foundations,
whose growing generosity provides the means
to realize Notre Dame’s hopes for tomorrow.’’




?A”.1


I ’
1 S'


vital that top-caliber individuals be assigned to
teaching positions, so too must the University
have competent lay administrative personnel.
To forestall competition from other fields, Notre
Dame must be prepared to meet the cost-of-
living index with increased salaries and to for-
mulate a much-needed retirement plan for the
administrative lay staff.

p:’
I
-o
■ a-4
JI



J

s&-
'r'-'-i -is
8
<$w>
,74^
&
I
s
A minimum capital investment of $500,000
(plus $50,000 annually) is necessary to initiate
a pension plan for eligible employees. This is
classified as a ‘critical item’ in Notre Dame’s
appeal for funds to obtain $66,600,000.
-f	« ar .
I h
«
1®
Ik
Jf^
€
J*'
«?
,. i
* $	«»6
i. ,! . • ’•
■ i







