
FATHER McDONAGH heads association
Rev. Thomas McDonagh, G.S.C., head of the depart-
ment of economics at Notre Dame, was installed as presi-
dent of the Catholic Economic Association at its annual
convention recently.
Discussion at the two-day professional meeting cen-
tered around the ethics of current Russian, West Ger-
man, French and Spanish economic policies. Father Mc-
Donagh is the third Notre Dame faculty member to head
the CEA. His predecessors in the post include Rev. Mark
Fitzgerald, C.S.C., and Prof. John Sheehan of the Notre
Dame economics department.
DIPLOMACY GRANT TO KERTESZ
Dr. Stephen Kertesz, Franklin Miles Professor of Poli-
tical Science at the University of Notre Dame, has been
awarded a grant by the Rockefeller Foundation for
research in Europe and North America on the methods,
role, meaning and limitations of modern diplomacy.
Prof. Kertesz, head of the University’s Committee on
International Relations and author of several books in
the field, expects to visit 12 NATO countries in carrying
out his research. He has been granted a leave of absence
from Notre Dame during the spring semesters of both
1965 and 1966 to undertake the project.
MALONE ADDRESSES NATIONAL CONVENTION
Dr. John R. Malone, assistant dean and associate
professor in Notre Dame’s College of Business Adminis-
tration, addressed 1,700 members of the National Con-
crete Masonry Association’s annual convention in Cleve-
land in January.
His topic was “The Importance of Marketing Man-
agement” and he pointed out that the objective of all
business should be service to the consumer, rather than
generation of profits.
SMITH ELECTED ALUMNI PRESIDENT
Lancaster Smith, Dallas, Tex., attorney, is the newly
elected president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association
for 1965. Serving with him as Association vice presidents
are George A. Bariscillo, Jr., Asbury Park, N.J., attorney;
Paul Fenlon, retired Notre Dame faculty member; and
Morton Goodman, Beverly Hills, Calif., attorney. Newly
elected members of the alumni board of directors are
Joseph Garey, Detroit, Mich.; Thomas W. Carroll, Hutch-
inson, Kan.; Ambrose F. “Bud” Dudley, Philadelphia,
Pa.; and Charles J. Patterson, Framingham, Mass.
SHRIVER NAMED ‘PATRIOT OF YEAR’
R. Sargent Shriver, director of the U.S. Peace Corps
and head of the federal government’s new Poverty Pro-
gram, received the 12th annual Patriotism Award of the
Notre Dame senior class from class president Lawrence
Beshel, Gurnee, Ill.
Shriver, who holds an honorary doctorate from Notre
Dame, accepted the award and delivered a major address
at the University’s traditional Washington’s Birthday Ex-
ercises on February 18 in the Stepan Center. Astronaut
John Glenn was the Patriotism Award recipient in 1964.
GABRIEL AUTHORS STUDY
Rev. A. L. Gabriel, O.Praem., director of the Medi-
aeval Institute at the University of Notre Dame, is the
author of a new study, Motivation of the Founders of
Mediaeval Colleges, published in Berlin.
Prof. Gabriel’s research deals with the aims of the
founders of mediaeval scholastic institutions and with
their efforts to alleviate the shortage of teachers and to
restore the splendor of studies at the end of the Middle
Ages. A special chapter is devoted to the social back-
ground of the college founders, among whom were mem-
bers of royalty, high-ranking ecclesiastics and even college
professors.
MASSEY RECEIVES AWARD
Dr. James L. Massey, associate professor of electrical
engineering at Notre Dame, has been selected by the In-
stitute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers to receive
a $100 “best paper award” in the field of information
theory.
Massey was cited “for his valuable contribution of a
practical yet efficient decoding algorithm” in a paper he
prepared in 1963 on “Threshold Decoding.”
Valedictorian of Notre Dame’s class of 1956, Massey
subsequently earned a master’s degree and a doctorate at
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He has been
a member of the University’s electrical engineering faculty
since 1962.
ADLER APRIL ARTIST
Samuel M. Adler, the celebrated painter and art edu-
cator, will be an artist-in-residence at the University of
Notre Dame during April, it was announced by Rev.
Anthony Lauck, G.S.G., head of the art department and
director of the University gallery.
Adler, professor of fine arts at New York University,
(Continued on page 22)
• EDITOR: JOHN H. JANOWSKI
NOTRE DAME VOL. 18, No. 1, SPRING, 1965
Published quarterly by the University of Notre
Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second
class matter May 10, 1928, at Post Office at Notre
Dame, Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.
2
NOTRE DAME
Doctors Rossini, Baldinger, Burton and Waldman
plan Notre Dame's Centennial of Science.
The Centennial of Science at the University of Notre
Dame will be observed throughout 1965 with a series of
special events, lectures and exhibits.
According to Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, Univer-
sity president, who is a member of the National Science
Board, the Centennial of Science observance will focus
attention on Notre Dame’s contributions to the various
sciences through the years. It will also spotlight the
current educational programs and extensive research of
the University’s College of Science, he said.
Dean Frederick D. Rossini, who has headed the Notre
Dame College of Science since 1960, said the University’s
first Bachelor of Science degree was conferred June 22,
1865, upon John Cassidy of Chelsea, Michigan, who
later became a South Bend, Ind., physician. At that time
the total enrollment of the University was less than 200.
Today the College of Science alone has an enrollment
of 600 sophomores, juniors and seniors, and 328 students
are pursuing advanced science degrees in the Graduate
School.
The College of Science consists of departments of
biology, chemistry, geology, mathematics, physics and
preprofessional studies. It also includes the Lobund
Laboratory, whose scientists pioneered in the develop-
ment of germfree animals for biological and medical
research, and the Radiation Laboratory whose AEC-
supported research in radiation chemistry is the most ex-
tensive under way on any campus.
Dr. Milton Burton, professor of chemistry and direc-
tor of the Radiation Laboratory, has been appointed
chairman of the Centennial of Science Committee by
Dean Rossini.
While the observance will be year' long, the principal
(Continued on page 19)
3
a
4»#»**»*
««****
I am writing this in an airport, which
seems to be the story of my life these days.
The place is Memphis. I’m en route from
Jackson, Mississippi, to South Bend. Most
of the past two weeks have been spent
in Jackson where we have been holding
public hearings of the United States Com-
mission on Civil Rights, mainly concerned
here with voting rights in Mississippi.
In many ways, it was an unpleasant
interlude. No decent American enjoys
listening to testimony regarding the depri-
vation of this basic right of American citi-
zenship — yet the sad fact is that less than
7 per cent of the Negro Americans in
Mississippi are registered to vote, and they
constitute 47 pei' cent of the State’s popu-
lation. They receive only half as much
education as the State’s white citizens. On
the average, those in school receive only
half as much educational expenditure per
capita as do the white citizens. It is no
surprise that they make far less than half
as much annually than whites, and live
in houses, two-thirds of which are sub-
standard. This comparison doesn’t begin
to tell the story either, since Mississippi's
per capita income generally is only half as
much as the national average.
All this is depressing enough, but when
one hears testimony of Negro taxpayers
and veterans who lose their jobs, are
beaten by masked men, have their
churches and homes bombed and burned
because they dare try to vote, it makes a
rather bleak picture.
Our Presidential Commission is mainly
for fact-finding. Once the facts are de-
termined, we must advise the President
and the Congress what needs to be done
to correct injustice and to promote equal-
ity of opportunity for all Americans.
Fortunately, more than 80 per cent of
the many recommendations we have made
to the President and the Congress over
the past seven years of the Commission's
life have now been enacted into law.
There are other plus values.
These past weeks in Mississippi, as in
many other States where we have held
hearings, the responsible local officials
went on record, often for the first time, in
favor of correcting long-standing injus-
tices. The Governor of Mississippi, the
Attorney General, the Mayor of Jackson,
the President of the State Bar Associa-
tion, the President of the Chamber of
Commerce, the Bishops and religious lead-
ers of all faiths, all spoke out forcefully
and plainly against discrimination in vot-
ing, against racial violence of all kinds,
O’ O	7
for better la-w enforcement, for better edu-
cation and job opportunity, in a word,
the State turned the corner at long last,
rejected the dead hand of the past, and
began to plan for greater human, dignity
and fulfillment for all citizens of Missis-
sippi.
This made the long days and nights
worthwhile. Notre Dame is a happier
place in which to live and work, but I
did have the chance to visit otu' Notre
Dame alumni of Mississippi while there,
and I know they appreciate Notre Dame’s
broader role in the modern world. If one
doesn't do some work for those who do
not yet enjoy the many blessings of Amer-
ica, he doesn’t deserve or appreciate those
blessings himself,
o
Devotedly yours in Notre Dame,
the
Departure from New York
•»
in August aboard
S.S. America.


On a warm August morning, we departed from the
docks on 43rd Street aboard the S.S. America. Destina-
tion: Europe and a year of studies in Innsbruck, Austria.
Expectations were great and hopes of success were even
greater. After days of calm seas, seven-course meals, and
nights of deck activities, we put ashore in Bremerhaven
on the northern coast of Germany.
Thirteen hours on the German railroad, through the
flatlands of northern Germany and rolling green hills of
the south brought us to our first destination in the beau-
tiful city of Mozart himself—Salzburg. During the six
weeks that followed we were drilled daily in the German
language and the culture of Austria. Salzburg was our
first real taste of Europe. We mixed among the people
and attempted to put to use our knowledge of the lan-
guage. It was in Salzburg that most of us saw our first
operas, Die Zauberflote, by Mozart and Strauss’s Rosen-

kavalier, along with the world famous
Jedermann, acted outdoors in front of
Cathedral.
production
of
the Salzburg
o


A short 11-day break spread the Notre Dame group
throughout central Europe including the scenic Rhine
Valley, the Black Forest, beautiful old Vienna, and the

5
An
American football game with a group of Innsbruck seminarians.
£
The Pension Steinbock, the Notre Dame of Innsbruck.
city of strife—Berlin. With the break drawing to a close,
we converged on Innsbruck from all directions. Blue
Vespa motorscooters ridden by Notre Dame students
were greeted by the warm, cozy Pension Steinbock and
the beginning of the first semester of the Sophomore Year
Abroad Program as we arrived in Innsbruck. Two miles
from the city, on a mountain slope, which was the scene
of many of last year’s Olympic events, the pension lies in
a small Tyrolean village overlooking the fertile Inn Val-
ley. This is our home, our classroom for three of our five
courses—the two others are held at the University—and
our hub for travel.
We feel that one of the unique opportunities that the
Innsbruck Program offers us is the chance to gain an
insight into the culture of a country different from oui'
own. Most of us have agreed that the Austrians, espe-
cially the Tirolese, are pleasingly different and special
people. They are a happy people, seemingly content
with the basic comforts of life, and living in a manner
closely orientated to their mountain surroundings.
The beautiful Tyrol, which the people love so much,
has had a great influence on each of us. Each morning,
we go to our windows in amazement and enjoy the gran-
deur of the Alps which rise above us on all sides. Before
the snows came, most of us got a taste of the Alpine scen-
ery by taking to the multitudes of hiking trails. Even a
few brave ones accepted the call of the high peaks and
donned the pick and rope of a mountain climber. Now
that winter has come, almost everyone has answered the
call of the Alps and a mass exodus began to the ski slopes.
Innsbruck offers some of the best skiing in Europe. The
upper elevations are easily reached by many tows, lifts,
and cable cars within close distances from our home
above Innsbruck.
Not only is Innsbruck ideal for winter sports, but it is
also perfectly located for travel. Thirty miles to the north
lies Germany, '25 miles to the south is the Brenner Pass
and Italy. Munich is only two and one-half hours away
by train. Neutral Switzerland is only 100 miles west
from here and 200 miles to the east lies the Iron Curtain
with the Hungarian border.
Our Christmas vacation gave each of us an oppor-
tunity to actualize plans and dreams of previous weeks’
wanderings through road maps and guide books in our
rooms. The holiday season found Notre Dame students
spread from Belgium to Sicily, Scotland to Bethlehem.
Literally tens of thousands of miles were covered seeing
and experiencing things which will remain in our mem-
ories for life. Since the year is only half over, only our
imaginations can tell what roads we will travel, what
peoples we will meet, and what lands we will enjoy.
The community life, so cherished at Notre Dame, is
uniquely retained here at the Pension Steinbock. We
have established a student government based upon a
volunteer system which has worked amazingly well and
has helped create a close feeling of togetherness. A library
has been set up and study hours are observed every night.
Daily Mass is celebrated in our small chapel. A sign at
the entrance, which reads Deutsch ist die Offizielle
Sprache, indicates our desire to improve our speaking
efficiency. German is encouraged at all meals. A news-
paper which we publish every two months, informs future
Innsbruck prospects and our families of our activities and

Professor Louis Hasley
teaches in the Austrian classroom.
The dinner hour is always one of the most enjoyable.
'	opinions. Committees are formed to cover everything
from laundry to evaluating the program’s progress.
One of the projects instituted since Christmas has
been a “meet the people” program, established to find
Austrian families in the Innsbruck area with whom we
can live for a week or so. We feel that we have created
a good impression in the community by personal contact;,
coverage by newspaper articles and local radio stations.
The people have reacted beyond all expectations. Invita-
tions to join families in their homes have far exceeded
’	the number required by our group. Living with a family
has proved to be a rich and worthwhile experience. Aus-
trian hospitality is a lesson in itself.
i	Notre Dame has established this program in Inns-
bruck in order that we may attain certain major goals.
First, we have been presented with the necessary academic
challenge which will fulfill the requirements of our sopho-
more year. Our classes consist of American history, Eng-
lish, theology, European history, German language, and
various audit courses (only the first two being taught in
English).
We have not found it all smooth going in our class-
room work. Since we are matriculated at the University
of Innsbruck for several classes, it has become necessary
to adjust ourselves to the European educational system,
which is greatly different from Notre Dame’s. Complete
emphasis on lectures, lack of personal contact with in-
structors, and lack of texts are some of the difficulties we
have had to accustom ourselves to. Exams are few and
so self-discipline and personal interest must be the mo-
tivating force to work hard and achieve satisfactory
I	results. This element of European university life has
been a fine experience in self-initiative. Another worth-
।	while phase has been the opportunity to meet and ex-
change ideas with so many foreign students. The many
informal meetings and discussion groups give us the
opportunity to broaden our outlook on their thoughts
j	and feelings and sharpen our awareness of European
,	and world affairs.
I	In comparing the educational merits of the two sys-
j	terns, most of us would prefer the American college to
the European. In an American university, the students
are given a more active role in the learning process.
Here, there seems to be a lack of concrete opportunities in
which a student can express himself.
Notre Dame has indicated that the Innsbruck group
is to be only the first of other programs in other foreign
countries. We are proud to be Notre Dame men, pioneer-
I	ing an experience which is destined to become a part of
;	the rich Notre Dame heritage.
The village church is highlighted by the winter sun.
By Mike Irvine (class of ’67)
and John Turner (class of ’64)
1
Father Soleta
(far left) talks
to a group of
sophomores.
DEANS’ OUTLOOK..
Graduate Schoo!
In 1964 a total of 75 Ph.D.’s and 500
master’s degrees of various kinds were
awarded in the Graduate School. Similar
figures are anticipated for 1965. Of the
73 doctorates, 18 were conferred on Sis-
ters. Our situation in this respect is per-
haps unique; only about 10 per cent of the
Ph.D.’s awarded in the country during the
past 10 years have gone to women, where-
as Notre Dame has been awarding more
than 20 per cent of its Ph.D.’s to Sisters.
Of the master’s degrees awarded by Notre
Dame last year, approximately two-thirds
were earned through studies spread over
five summers or more; most of the re-
cipients were teachers.
The University has been allotted 14
new National Science Foundation trainee-
ships in science and engineering to begin
in September 1965. The continuation of
8 of the 11 current NSF traineeships in
engineering has also been authorized.
The award of 10 NASA traineeships to
begin in September 1965 will bring up to
26 the number of students who will be
studying space-related sciences and engi-
neering next year at various levels in this
program. The NASA contract began with
8 three-year traineeships in 1963, and 8
more were added in 1964.
The Office of Education has allotted the
University 13 new NDEA graduate fellow-
ships to begin next fall. They are dis-
tributed in “new or expanded” programs
as follows: 3 in Electrical Engineering, 3
in Mathematics, 3 in Mechanical Engi-
neering, 3 in Physics, and 1 in Latin
American Studies. Currently we have 27
students at various levels in a number of
departments who are supported by NDEA
fellowships. In January the Graduate
School applied for a block of the remain-
ing 1965 NDEA fellowships for on-going
programs in the Humanities, Social Sci-
ences, and Education. We are hopeful
that an award of 20 will be made.
Through such programs of financial
support, agencies of the federal govern-
ment are trying to increase the number of
highly trained people in the nation for
the good of the nation. The student re-
ceives $200 or more per month for his
own living expenses and a dependency
allowance if he is married and has family
obligations. The university is granted a
cost-of-education allowance of $2500 a
year for each fellow or trainee because it
is recognized that graduate education is
very expensive and tuition alone does not
cover the cost to the institution.
Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C.
Graduate School
Joseph O'Meara, Jr.
Law School
William M. Burke
Freshman Year of Studies
Thomas P. Bergin
Continuing Education
Law School
Mr. Justice Arthur Goldberg of the
Supreme Court of the United States pre-
sided over the final argument in the
annual Moot Court Competition on Octo-
ber 10. He was the seventh of the present
members of the Supreme Court to serve
in that capacity.
Mr. Lewis Powell of Richmond, pres-
ident of the American Bar Association,
will be the featured speaker at the annual
Law Honors Banquet on May 3. Mr.
Powell’s visit will mark the eighth consecu-
tive year in which the Law Honors Ban-
quet has been addressed by the president
of the American Bar Association.
Each year for some years there has been
a symposium at the Law School dealing
with a highly controversial problem of
urgent national concern. This year the
symposium, which will be held on March
27, will deal with “Violence in the
Streets.” Professor Thomas F. Broden, Jr.,
is in charge of the program.
The national Catholic weekly review
America has been selected to receive one
of the 1965 Lincoln University Curators
Awards for Significant Contributions to
Better Human Relations. An article by
Professor G. Robert Blakey entitled “Dis-
crimination, Unions, and Title VII,”
which appeared in the August '29, 1964,
issue was specified as one of the reasons
why the award was made to America.
Accordingly, its editor-in-chief has re-
quested Professor Blakey to represent
America and speak briefly at a banquet
on March 31 in Jefferson City, Missouri,
at which time the awards will be present-
ed. Other publications similarly honored
this year are the Washington Evening Star
(Chicago) and the Kansas City Star.
The Ford Foundation has appointed
Professor Thomas F. Broden, Jr., a con-
sultant, to study the experience under
Ford Foundation grants in support of
graduate legal education for present and
prospective law teachers.
Under the leadership of its president,
Mr. James M. Wetzel of Chicago, the
Notre Dame Law Association is better or-
ganized and functioning more smoothly
than ever before. The appointment of
Mrs. Jeannette Allsop has proved a major
breakthrough. Her day-to-day administra-
tion of the Association’s affairs is extreme-
ly effective. She is presently pushing
forward, with all possible speed, prepara-
tions for a new edition of the Association’s
Legal Directory.
Beginning with the academic year 1965-
8
NOTRE DAME
66, the tuition will be increased from
$1000 to $1200. This underscores the ur-
gency of a substantial increase in funds
available for scholarship purposes. With-
out that increase we cannot expect to at-
tract the better students, who are eagerly
sought after by other institutions with
plenty of scholarship money at their com-
mand.
Continuing Education
The construction work on our new
Center for Continuing Education is well
under way. As far as I can determine,
lacking the sophisticated insight of the
engineer, we are about on schedule. Sure-
ly the moderate weather in December and
January permitted real progress.
It was my feeling, when first accepting
this new assignment, that once the con-
tract was let and the building was under
way there would be a great deal of time
to think out many of our projected pro-
grams and the problems associated with
the various types of conferences we hope
to schedule. Quite frankly, this has not
been the case. Much of the time, over
the past few months, has been spent on
those routine, and yet important, deci-
sions associated with the interior facilities
and decor. Above all, we are anxious to
have the building comfortable, con-
veniently arranged and handsomely ap-
pointed.
Although preliminary provisions were
made in connection with the communi-
cation systems, recording facilities and the
like, final decisions concerning these will
now have to be made within the next few
weeks. Again, these must be thought out
carefully as they will be most important
once we are under way.
Perhaps one of the most singularly
significant and frustrating problems en-
countered over the past year is that of
recruiting and securing the qualified per-
sonnel. Simply stated, there is no great
pool of capable and experienced people
to draw upon. For the most part, the
existing Continuing Education Centers
have trained their own people for the co-
ordinating work and have found the
necessary faculty resources through their
existing university extension operations.
While I fee^our problems at Notre Dame
are somewhat less complicated, as a re-
sult of our not having extension work, it
does present serious problems in connec-
tion with recruiting.
In facing up to this I have decided to
initiate a modest internship program be-
ginning in the summer of this year. In
this program we will select two of our
June graduates for appointment as Fel-
lows in Continuing Education. Over a
period of two years they will be working
for a master’s degree in the particular
discipline of their choice and, at the
same time, functioning as coordinators at
the Center. This will provide the Center
with a continuing supply of talented
young men to handle the coordinating
work and will supply them with a wealth
of experience and opportunities in the
whole field of Continuing Education. If
this works out, we may ultimately have
a larger program in which we would
select appropriate applicants from other
universities.
The regular staff of the Center will
include members who hold faculty rank
and will do some teaching in the academic
departments of the University. Recently,
two very capable young men with their
doctorates in Continuing Education have
indicated an interest in joining our staff.
The interest and support of the faculty
continue to provide real encouragement
for the future. We have some twenty
conferences already scheduled for the
Center extending as far as 1969. Again,
I would welcome your thoughts and
recommendations concerning this impor-
tant work for the University, and look
forward to the day when, on the “Dean’s
Outlook” page, I will be able to discuss
our programs based on experience and
performance.
Freshman Year of Studies
Although I certainly realize that statis-
tics can be misleading it is interesting to
note the number of students whose work
during- the first semester reaches the 3.25
o
Dean’s List requirement. During our first
year of operation, 1962-63, 114 students
managed to achieve Dean’s List standing
at the end of their fall semester. The fol-
lowing year, 1963-64, this number jumped
to 164 students. It is most gratifying to
know that in the present freshman class
there were 186 who became Dean’s List
candidates. Incidentally, last year we had
8 students who achieved a straight A aver-
age; this past semester 20 freshmen man-
aged to have A grades in all of their
subjects.
Through the cooperation of Mr. Cor-
baci of Academic Affairs, the freshmen
this year had an independent final exam-
ination schedule. We were able to length-
en out the examination schedule to five
days and this stretched-out examination
period gave no freshman more than one
examination on a particular day. In the
past such a plan was not possible and
many times freshmen had at least two
examinations and in some instances three
examinations on a particular day. Working
closely with Academic Affairs we hope to
9
DEANS’
‘f . . . the pursuit
of excellence ... 33
continue the extended examination period
for freshmen in the future.
So successful has our Innsbruck, Austria,
Program been that the University is offer-
ing the incoming freshmen this fall an op-
portunity to enroll in a new Angers,
France, Program. We shall send 25 stu-
dents to France as sophomores and all
incoming freshmen in the Arts and Letters
— Business Administration Intents who
are interested will be eligible to sign up
for one of these two programs. Incidental-
ly, the number of Innsbruck candidates
will continue at 52.
As a final comment I might add that
approximately 390 students out of a fresh-
man class of 1500 managed to achieve a
B or better average. I use the word “ap-
proximately” because some students who
missed their final examinations could be
added to this number.
College of Arts and Letters
In starting the second semester of the
academic year, 1964-65, we welcome again
to the faculty two distinguished profes-
sors who visited us in previous years, Eric
Voegelin and James M. Cameron. Mr.
Cameron delivered the Terry Lectures at
Yale University during the past year. He
will lecture this semester here in Philos-
ophy of Newman and Professor Voegelin
will give his course in Modern Political
Theory.
In this spring semester we have en-
couraged a great many of our sophomores
to elect a course in Computer Science.
This is a general course in orientation of
problems adaptable to computer work.
Many of these sophomores later will be
undertaking senior problems in economics,
sociology, government, or history that will
be computer-oriented. More and more
the liberal arts students will find the com-
puter facility a necessary tool for their
research projects.
The department of Theologv is pro-
posing a new major sequence of courses
in theology for next September. The in-
creasing demand among lay students for
a Theology major makes this a very wel-
come addition to the major programs of
our College. The demand for and use of
laymen for theology instruction give spe-
cial emphasis to this new announcement
by the Theology department.
The Committee on Academic Progress,
entrusted with the guidance of superior
students, has proposed two opportunities
for more independent study, available to
the best qualified students. First, all de-
Thomas T. Murphy
College of Business Administration
Norman R. Gay
College of Engineering
Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C.
College of Arfs and Letters
Frederick D. Rossini
College of Science
partments will offer a Special Topics, or
Directed Readings course for a limited
number of students acceptable to the de-
partment and to the teachers involved.
Secondly, a very select small number of
seniors may qualify for a full year of
independent study, free from course re-
quirements, but involved in a substantial
project of creative writing or research,
directed by one or more of the faculty.
These students, Fellows-of-the-College,
would enjoy a large measure of scholastic
freedom, but will be under strict account-
ability to the professor (s) overseeing their
senior work.
The College of Arts and Letters will
graduate in June 1965 the biggest class
in its history, and will send of that class
the largest proportion to professional and
graduate schools ever prepared here for
advanced study.
College of Business Administration
The College of Business Administration
entered the 1964-65 academic year with
1047 students in the upper three years and
354 freshman “intents.” Similar to the
national trend, Business Administration at
Notre Dame is showing an increase in
student interest this year. Sophomores
entering the College in September extend-
ed their mathematics with a new College
requirement of a full-year course in sta-
tistics. Continual curriculum study indi-
cates increased need for emerging man-
agers in the fields of quantitative tools,
behavioral sciences, and international
business and economics. The faculty of
the College is providing permeation of
these areas into the traditional functional,
tool, and environment courses. Principally
in the Marketing and Management areas
the importance of behavior patterns in
decision-making is finding new emphasis.
And the College has restructured its inter-
national marketing and international eco-
nomic policy courses to include evolving
concepts in the area of international busi-
ness.
A new student organization was formed
this semester: a Notre Dame chapter of
AISEC (International Association of Stu-
dents in Economic and Commercial Sci-
ences). Its objective is to open summer
jobs in U.S. business for foreign college
students, which jobs will provide exchange
summer jobs in foreign business for Amer-
ican students. To this date four Notre
Dame business students in AISEC will
spend the summer of 1965 in various
parts of the world; it is the Organization’s
10 NOTRE DAME

I
I
I
hope to build the openings to a dozen for
the 1965 summer.
A very successful symposium on the
Economics of the Kennedy Administra-
tion was conducted by the Business faculty
in October under the joint chairmanship
of Professors Sequin and Houck. Another
symposium on Poverty in America was
presented by the College’s O’Hara Lec-
ture Series in October with Michael Har-
rington, Raymond M. Hilliard, and John
Brademas as speakers. Members of the
Advisory Council of the College of Busi-
ness Administration presented a special
Fall-meeting symposium on New Frontiers
in Business in November. This new for-
mat for a Council meeting was a highly
successful venture that succeeded in im-
proving communications between the
Council and the student body.
The faculty of the College had a most
productive year. Four members delivered
papers at the national meetings of the
Allied Social Sciences in December; ten
other faculty members delivered papers
during the past year at meetings of learned
societies. For the year concluded, Septem-
ber 30, 1964, nineteen members of the
faculty of the College published six books
and thirty-one articles, monographs, and
reviews. Currently twenty-four faculty
members have research projects underway.
College of Science
The history of science at Notre Dame
over the past one hundred years is a fas-
cinating tale, giving evidence of accom-
plishments of which the University and
its people can be justly proud. As noted
elsewhere in this issue, the University is
celebrating its Centennial of Science in
1965. The new upsurge in science in the
world today involves a public awareness
of the importance of science, for preserv-
ing the security of our country, for im-
proving the health of our people, and for
raising the standards of living of our citi-
zens. To keep abreast of and to share the
lead in these developments is the task
facing the University today. Our Faculty
must continue to dedicate themselves to
the discovery and service of truth in their
search for new knowledge of the world
fashioned by oui' Creator. Advances must
continue in the recruitment of able Facul-
ty, the enrollment of capable students, and
the provision of adequate facilities for
teaching and research.
New Professors on the Faculty of the
College of Science beginning this academic
year, 1964-65, include the following: In
the Department of Biology, Assistant Pro-
fessors Tomoaki Asano (Visiting), Julian
F. Haynes, Michael H. Levin, and Philip
C. Miller; in the Department of Chem-
istry, Associate Professor Jeremiah P.
Freeman, and Assistant Professors Roger
K. Bretthauer, Thomas P. Fehlner, and
Angelo A. Lamola; in the Department of
Mathematics, Professor Reinhold Rem-
mert (Visiting), Associate Professors Hans-
Joachim Nastold (Visiting) and Warren
J. Wong, and Assistant Professors John E.
Derwent and G. Kenneth Williams; in
the Department of Physics, Associate
Professor John A. Poirier.
Promotions in rank for this year have
come to the following: In the Depart-
ment of Biology, Harvey A. Bender to
Associate Professor, and George B. Craig,
Jr., to Professor; in the Department of
Chemistry, Rudolph S. Bottei and Emil T.
Hofman to Associate Professor; in the
Department of Mathematics, James D.
Stasheff to Associate Professor; in the
Department of Physics, Rev. James L.
Shilts, CSC, to Assistant Professor, Paul
C. DeGelies and Emerson G. Funk to
Associate Professor, and Cornelius P.
Browne and Walter C. Miller to Professor.
To promote an increased number of
applications for admissions to Notre Dame
for study in science, a booklet entitled
“Science and You at Notre Dame” has
been prepared. Copies are being distrib-
uted to high schools throughout the coun-
try. Copies are freely available to alumni
and friends of the University, on request.
Plans for new and renovated physical
facilities for science at the University have
been prepared, involving a new Life Sci-
ence Center for Biology and the Lobund
Laboratory, renovation of Chemistry Hall
for Chemistry and some for Physics, and
eventual relocation of Geology in the
Annex to Chemistry Hall.
College of Engineering
For the spring semester of the current
academic year, the faculty of the College
will be joined by three new members:
Assistant Professor G. Y. Chow of the
Department of Aerospace Engineering;
Assistant Professor Michael K. Sain of the
Department of Electrical Engineering;
and Assistant Professor Mark W. Tenney
of the Department of Civil Engineering.
Professor Chow received his doctorate at
the University of Michigan and has been
a postdoctoral research fellow at Michi-
gan working in the area of magnetohydro-
dynamics. Professor Sain received his
Ph.D. at the University of Illinois and is
working in the area of stochastic optimal
control. Professor Tenney will be work-
ing in the field of environmental health
engineering having completed his gradu-
ate work at Harvard and the Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology.
(Continued on page 19)
11
TROUT FISHERMAN — This
life-size self-portrait of the
artist was done 25 years
ago on a 30x36-inch canvas.
Professor Sessler puts the
finishing touches on his oil
painting of Paul Byrne, a
25x30-inch oil on canvas
portrait.
F.R.S.A
F.I.A.L
Dean of
Dame's
Artists
BOSA AND THE BIRDS — From this study a portrait was painted
in the style of a drawing of the artist, Louis Bosa, on a 30x40-
inch
Oil,
panel. Winner of the Mitchell Prize for Figure Studies in
Northern Indiana Art Salon in 1962.
12
NOTRE DAME
-rr
e
w--




Bom in 1905 of Russian parentage in the city known
today as Leningrad., but came to this country at the age
of two and was educated here. His training in art was
acquired at the Massachusetts School of Art in Boston,
Massachusetts, where he studied under the fine painters
Major, Andrews and Hamilton, and was a Dean’s List
student for three years.
It was in the fall of 1928 that Sessler came to Notre
Dame after a year of teaching in Boston while doing
postgraduate work at the art school. In 1937 he was
appointed to head the Department of Art at Notre Dame.
Under his leadership the graduate program was estab-
lished and other remarkable growth was evident.
Since 1928 Sessler has been an active exhibitor in
art shows in all parts of this country, while in more
recent years has had work exhibited abroad where he has
traveled and has done research on painting techniques.
Many honors and awards have come his way. He was
elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Art, London,
England, in 1951, and in 1954 became a Fellow of the
International Institute of Arts and Letters, Lindau-
Bodensee, Germany. He is listed in Who’s Who, Who’s
Who in American Art and other similar prestige publi-
cations.
Besides portraits, Sessler has painted landscapes, still-
life, religious subjects and murals. His work may be
found in public and private collections in at least 35
states, including Hawaii, and a number of the paintings
in recent exhibits are prize winners. He is also in con-
siderable demand as a lecturer on various art subjects,
using his own color slides to illustrate his talks. He has
appeared on TV in interviews and demonstrations.
This year’s series of exhibits began in November in the
Heritage Galleries in Chicago. From there the exhibit
traveled to the Philbrook Art Center, Tulsa, Oklahoma,
during the month of January. In Tulsa, several Notre
Dame alumni and friends were influential in making the
showing a great success. Future plans include another
Chicago exhibit, as well as a show at the Columbus
Museum of Arts and Crafts, Columbus, Ga.
Additional information on these exhibits or Professor
Sessler’s work can be obtained by contacting the Art De-
partment, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame.
Indiana.
vegetables and kitchen items on a 20x24-inch panel. Painted
in 1957, it won the Northern Indiana Art Salon first prize
in 1958.
MESTROVIC AND HIS SKETCH OF ST. JOHN — Oil portrait
of the late sculptor on a 31x41-inch panel. Painted in 1963,
two years after the death of Mestrovic.
JERI AND THE SIAMESE
— Portrait of the wife of
the artist, with her pet
cat. Painted for their 25th
wedding anniversary in
1957. Oil on canvas, 25
x30 inches, and winner
of the Tri Kappa award.
PROF. PAUL F. BYRNE,
CURATOR — this subject
was Notre Dame's first
curator of the University
Galleries. Prior to his
retirement he served as
University Librarian for
many years.
'4?

Architecture finds
new
lg
nd better) home
a
i-S
At the left above is the new Architecture
Building, formerly the Notre Dame
the
the right is the interior view of
entrance foyer.
Library. At
main
By MARY KITKOWSKI
Department of Public Information

When the University of Notre Dame moved into its
new 13-story skyscraper library in September. 1963. it
left behind an empty slate gray building with three stories
of library stacks and bookshelves which had served as the
Universitv librarv since 1917.
In turning over the vacated building to the archi-
tecture department, the University gave the department
a new home and the personnel an experimental labora-
tory' to test their ingenuity in design and construction.
Professor Frank Montana, head of the architecture
department, created and executed the designs used in
transforming the vacant library into a functional show-
case of the latest designs and materials in the building
industry. Leading building supply firms were among
twenty-five contributors who gave the department their
latest materials for use in the building. The renovation
process was completed at a cost of $250,000.
The library stacks created the biggest problem in
remodeling the building. Professor Montana said, because
they were supporting the floors. In order to remove the
stacks, a diagonal brace had to be trussed on top of each
column before removal. On the ground floor, where
removing vital columns would weaken the building. Prof.
Montana employed these columns as partitions for mak-
ing twenty-five study carrels for thesis students. Thus
a potential liability became an asset as the 7x8-foot carrels
14 NOTRE DAME
are more spacious than those ordinarily found in schools,
providing ample room for work tables and equipment.
Each carrel is partitioned by a different type of pattern
in concrete block. On either side of the central core area
of carrels are class and work areas for the third and fourth
year design students, containing work tables built by the
students.
The main floor, which contains the administration
area, faculty offices, a conference room, a lecture room
and the architecture library, is a masterful blending of
diverse materials and designs.
The lobby area features different styles of brick murals
on the walls. A back wall is done in marble which was
transferred from the walkways in the former library
stacks. Columns from stacks that had to be retained for
support have been used to create display areas in the
lobby. These areas have been surfaced with precast
panels, each panel containing a different type of aggre-
gate.
The lecture room, a converted reading room, uses a
folding wall to cut the room in half foi' smaller classes.
Two types of flooring are used in the room, the one a
vinyl flooring over a fibrous material which gives the
floor the texture of carpeting, and the other a travertine
vinyl asbestos. The walls are surfaced with finished
walnut paneling which is zippered into place in sections.
All lighting and movie equipment in the room are cen
trally controlled by the speaker from the lectern.
The floor and ceiling are the two most notable fea
—
—
tures in the administration area. Luminous ceilings in
leaf and “squiggle” patterns are used in Prof. Montana’s
office and in the conference room. A minimum of main-
tenance is needed for the epoxy cast floor which has
natural stone and marble chips.
Ironically, the only area of the former library which
is still being used as a library also had to be altered. In
a former reading room which has been designated as the
architecture library, all of the shelves had to be extended
in order to accommodate the architecture books, which
are much longer than the average book.
An observation gallery overlooking the main floor.
with marble steps and wrought iron railings,
constructed from an old gallery which supports
floor.
The main-floor faculty offices, as well as
has been
the third
those on
the top floor, have white walls and ceilings with stained
wood door and window frames. The same colors arc
carried out in the corridors, giving a light, spacious
appearance to formerly cramped walkways. The top
floor also contains all of the classrooms and drafting
rooms, accommodating over 100 first and
students.
second
year
Although classes began in the new building Novem-
her 9, 1964, the final touches in remodeling are still being-
completed. In the mezzanine area a heliograph which
measures sun angles and sun penetration will be installed
so that students can measure these factors anywhere in
the country to determine such factors as weather wear
on materials for Brazil or Boston. This floor' also contains
a large lounge area which is to be furnished by a student
group.
Even the construction area, which ordinarily would
be inaccessible to students, has become a laboratory for
study for architecture students. On the “floor between
floors,” a former stack area between the ground floor
and main floor, students can enter and study the way
in which the supports were built and the columns cut.
as well as ventilations design techniques.
The transformation of the old library has been so
complete that the only hint of the building's original use
can be found in several strange shaped storage compart-
ments created from former stack areas. But. as Mr.
Montana points out, every available inch of space has
been utilized in the building,
o
Contracts fox' the remodeling were awarded to Thomas
L. Hickev Construction Co., Inc., general contractor;
Southside Electric Co., electrical contractor; and Vic
Trippel Plumbing and Heating, heating contractor; all
of South Bend.
carrels,
divides
Above: Professor Montana, head of the architecture department, discusses
a problem with one of his students. Below: Display areas in the lobby
feature various brick and stone panels

Above. An architecture student works in one of the spacious
Below split-level lecture room features a folding wall which
the area for smaller classes.



Young Father Edward Sorin was a fabulous youn
man, “young” because he was only twenty-eight whe:
he founded Notre Dame. We are so accustomed to th
picture of the old priest with the flowing white bean
that we forget the young, black-haired, dark-complectec
man with the sparkling brown eyes and the square chin
In the history of the University he has the credit fo
many firsts, such as the first Catholic law school and thi
first Catholic engineering school. It can be said that hi
established the first university press, because he had beei
at Notre Dame less than three years when he bought £
press and printed some pamphlets. This first press wa:
sold after a short experiment and the first catalogue
printing at Notre Dame did not take place until a nev\
press was purchased in 1865. In 1865, however, Sorir
established a printing first that was very characteristic
of his religious faith, the Ave Maria, the first devotiona'
periodical dedicated to the Blessed Virgin published in the
United States.
Father John W. Cavanaugh told the story that when
a young man named Joseph Kaul from Lancaster, Penn-
sylvania, aged 28, came to Notre Dame to become a
Brother and announced among his other qualifications
that he was a printer, Father Sorin greeted him with
the assurance that he was just the man he had been
praying for because he was planning to publish a maga-
zine. Joseph Kaul as Brother Leopold was to achieve
greater fame at Notre Dame by reason of his other talents.
He had been choirmaster in Lancaster and could play the
violin and he became with Brother Basil an important
part in the music department of Notre Dame. In later
years he was the proprietor of Brother Leopold’s famous
candy store. But only Father Cavanaugh remembered
his contribution to the founding of the Ave Maria, which
was first published on May 1, 1865. Alfred Talley, how-
ever, took charge of the Ave Maria Press. The first two
issues, because of technical difficulties, were published
in Chicago.
Father Sorin had proposed to establish the magazine
as early as 1854. the year that Pope Pius IX proclaimed
the dogma of the Immaculate Conception, but he did not
have the means. When the new Notre Dame college
building was erected in the summer of 1865, he planned
to erect on top of the building a dome surmounted by a
statue of Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception. He
was sure of Our Lady’s help. But he was not confident
of the success of his magazine. To Father Neal Gillespie,
then in Europe, he sent a prospectus of the new maga-
zine on May 29, and added:
I may be deceived, disappointed, laughed to scorn,
but with all that, I will still retain my conviction that
the Ave Maria will be the source of most abundant
blessings, one of the best things ever done in our
Congregation and ultimately a glorious work for our
Blessed Mother. . . . When I first thought of it years
ago, I imagined it would do some good but I feared
EDITOR'S NOTE—This is the first section of a two-part article on the
Ave Maria. While the magazine has never been a publication of the
University of Notre Dame, it has always been published on the Notre
Dame campus by priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross. While not
a part of the University, the Ave Maria has influenced and has been in-
fluenced by members of the Notre Dame family since 1865. Thus, if seems
fitting that Father McAvoy's article appear in two issues of NOTRE DAME
on the occasion of the Ave Maria’s Centennial.
somewhat to make any noise; now I begin to fear
enough to tremble. . . . Fortunately I have here my
angel too whose exclusive occupation will be for the
Ave Maria. . .
The angel of whom he spoke was Father Neal’s sister,
Mother Angela, the heroic nurse of the Civil War and
the second foundress of Saint Mary’s, Notre Dame. While
Father Sorin was the founder, the first editor and the
soul of the Ave Maria at the start, the assistance of
Mother Angela and Father Neal Gillespie played an
important part, not only in editing but also in getting
prominent Catholics to write for the magazine and in
preparing translations of notable essays from foreign lan-
guages that frequently filled the sixteen pages of the
Ave Maria.
The magazine itself announced its particular char-
acter on the first page of the first issue.
The Ave Maria is, in the true and widest sense
of the word, a Family Newspaper, in which we intend
to speak exclusively of our own family affairs. It is
published to meet the wants, and interest the heart
of every Catholic, from the grey-haired grandsire who
tells his beads at eventide, to the prattling child who
kisses his medal as he falls asleep in his downy cradle
with rosy dreams in which the loved images of his
mother on earth and his Mother in Heaven are sweet-
ly blended.
It is our family chronicle, wherein is emblazoned
in glorious heraldic characters, the glorious deeds of
our ancestors. . . .
The magazine had for its chief purpose to honor the
Blessed Virgin in much the same way that the Univer-
sity of Notre Dame was dedicated to Our Lady. But at
the same time the magazine was for the benefit of the
family. Within a few issues, for instance, the last two
pages were dedicated to articles for children. Also there
appeared chronicles chiefly of religious events, domestic
and foreign. And other articles of religious interest, not
strictly devoted to Our Lady, were included. Strangely
Archbishop John B. Purcell of Cincinnati, although a
friend of Father Sorin and Mother Angela, withheld his
approbation for a few issues because he did not really
think the magazine would be successful, but when chided
by Mother Angela for his doubts he gave a letter of
approbation that appeared in the twelfth issue.
The first volumes of the Ave Maria obtained the
services of the best American Catholic writers. Father
Sorin had approached Orestes Brownson in 1854 when
he first proposed publishing the magazine. Now that the
magazine was an actuality he sought the great critic of
American Catholic literature to write for its pages.
Mother Angela also sought the leading women writers.
Notre Dame’s progress gave an occasion. In 1866 the
statue of the Immaculate Conception on the dome on
top of the new six-story building was set up. The dedi-
cation of the building had been postponed until that
spring. In the meantime it was announced that on the
dedication day, May 31, prizes were to be awarded in
connection with the Ave Maria, one for the best poetic
composition in honor of Our Lady and one for the best
literary essay in honor of Our Lady. In the meantime
Father Sorin and Mother Angela both wrote to Brown-
son maintaining that there would be no question that
any essay that he would submit would win the prize.
When the great day arrived, in the presence of six bishops,
including Martin John Spalding, the Archbishop of
Baltimore, the prizes were announced. The judges had
decided that in each case there would be two first prizes.
The winning poets were George H. Miles of Emmitsburg,
Maryland, and Mrs. Anna Hanson Dorsey of Washing-
ton, D.C.; the winning essayists were Orestes A. Brownson,
LL.D, and Louis Constantine, a nom de plume, whose
real name was not disclosed. There were five additional
prizes in the poetry competition and five essay prizes in
addition to the two first prizes. The winning contribu-
tions were later published in the Ave Maria, the con-
test as planned proving a very good source of articles
for the new periodical. It might be added that Brown-
son also submitted other essays to the Ave Maria, but
when Father Sorin found it necessary to question theo-
logically a phrase in the great critic’s essay Brownson
threatened that he would no longer write for the maga-
zine. Nevertheless the friendship between the two did
not end. When Mrs. Brownson died Father Sorin invited
the old man to come to Notre Dame to spend the rest of
his days. Brownson was grateful for the invitation but
decided to go to Detroit where he spent his last years
with his son, Henry F. Brownson.
While Father Sorin watched carefully over his mag-
azine, he had too many other tasks to do the actual
editing. Mother Angela also soon had other tasks, being
the Provincial Superior of the Sisters of Holy Cross in the
United States, a position that acquired greater impor-
tance when the Sisters were separated from the organi-
17
... the first
1OO years
of a great
Catholic
Magazine...
zation of the priests and Brothers by the Holy See. We
do not know what other assistants she had during the
first year, but when her brother, Father Neal Gillespie,
returned from Europe in 1866, he found the editorial
chores awaiting him. His sister, Mother Angela, had to
visit the houses of her community in other parts of the
country and to prepare her own literary work including
The mail room of
the Ave Maria in
the 1800's was a
center of activity
for a fast-growing
publication.
a series of grade-school readers. Thus Father Gillespie
edited the Ave Maria almost alone although he was at
the same time for a few years the Master of Novices for
the young province.
When Father Sorin became the Superioi' General of
the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1868, Father Gillespie
became formally the editor of the A ve Maria and the
Ave Maria began to assume the form that continued for
many decades. There were at this time some local touches,
such as the pastoral letters of the bishops of Fort Wayne,
and occasional references to the College at Notre Dame.
Father Gillespie brought to his writing and editorship
a family background of culture and a superior education
for the time. He was the first liberal arts graduate of Notre
Dame in 1849 and had added study and travel in France
and Rome. Nevertheless during the seven years of his
editorship no one could tell what part he had in the
magazine since his name never appeared in it until a
few weeks before his death, when the acting editors an-
nounced his serious illness. The magazine did not then
have a very personal touch. The articles, while pre-
dominantly devoted to the Blessed Virgin and her position
in the Church, included to a great extent descriptions of
her shrines and churches, and religious stories, legends,
poems, and essays.
Gradually the Ave Maria began to have a corps of
regular contributors, although few appeared continuously
for any long period. There were fewer translations from
foreign languages and the articles more and more began
to be entirely original. Some of the contributors were
standard in the Catholic literary effort of the day. Among
them were Lady Georgiana Fullerton, Abby Maria Hem-
enway, Francis R. Howe, Rose Bailly Howe, Andrew
Arnold Lambing, Mary Mannix, Father Michael Mullin
signing as “Clonfert,” Aubrey De Vere, Edward Caswall,
Kathleen O’Meara, Eliza Allen Starr who wrote poetry
and prose generously for the Ave Maria columns, Mother
Mary Magdalen Taylor, Frances Tiernan (Christian
Reid), Archbishop Martin John Spalding and his nephew,
Father (soon Bishop) John Lancaster Spalding, Marion
Muir Richardson and Harriet Skidmore. There were
some contributions from Father John Bannister Tabb and
Maurice Francis Egan. There were contributions from
the Dorseys of Washington, especially from the novelist,
Anna Hanson Dorsey. There were many long quotations
from the letters and speeches of Pope Pius IX and many
comments about him as the “Prisoner of the Vatican.”
These reports from Rome by Daniel Paul were signed
“Arthur.” The pages showed a considerable cult of St.

Francis de Sales, the patron of gentleness that was so
characteristic of the piety of the Ave Maria ol that time.
The quality of the writing in the magazine under the
pen of Mother Angela was high from the start. At first
the theme ol devotion to Our Lady dominated the whole
magazine, but as the magazine was for the whole family,
other items of interest to the Catholic family were quickly
included. The fillers, often from the best religious writers,
were partly chosen to inculcate some pious thought. A
children’s page appeared in nearly every issue. Items of
general interest to the Catholic world were noted, includ-
ing religious progress notes from the American dioceses.
When it was announced that Father Neal Gillespie
had been relieved of his editorship in the early summer
of 1874, his relatives and friends, not understanding the
seriousness of his illness, wrote in strong protest. Father
Neal himself told his mother that he was unable to con-
tinue the responsibility of the job. In his place a staff
of four, consisting of Father Frank Bigelow, Father Pat-
rick Golovin, Father John O’Connell and Mr. Daniel
Hudson, took care of the publishing of the Ave Maria.
Father Gillespie died on November 12, 1874. The two
brief biographies that appeared in the Ave Maria after
his death, while indicating that articles by him had ap-
peared shortly before his death, noted that his name had
appeared only once before in the magazine, when the
editors announced his serious illness.
In a note to his mother just before his death Father
Gillespie spoke of his confidence in the editorship of
Father Bigelow, but he did not become the editor. In
the spring of 1875 Mr. Daniel Hudson, G.S.G., received
the diaconate and on June 2, 1875, was ordained a priest
with Father John A. Zahm, C.S.C. How much of the
editorial work of the Ave Maria, he had been carrying
up to that time is not clear since officially the committee,
of which he was the youngest and only unordained mem-
ber, had been in charge, but after his ordination he re-
3	O'
ceived the obedience to be the editor of the Ave Maria,
the only obedience he ever held until his resignation in
1928 because of illness.
A photograph of the young Father Hudson, taken up
close, gives the illusion of a larger man since his face
seems large and his forehead high and his lips and nose
a bit large; actually he was a small person. A few years
later another photograph shows a face of the same pro-
portions but covered by a black Vandyke beard and
wearing pince-nez glasses with a long black string attached.
(To be continued in next issue.)
DEAN'S OUTLOOK
(Continued from page 11)
As a result of an inspection visit last spring by the
Engineer’s Council for Professional Development all of
the engineering departments formerly accredited were
reaccredited and initial accreditation was granted to the
Department of Engineering Science. The Department
of Architecture was accredited by the American Institute
of Architecture. During the fall semester the Architecture
Department moved into the old Library building and
the finishing touches on its renovation should be com-
pleted in time for an exhibition and series of lectures in
late April to which all are cordially invited to attend.
Dr. J. M. Skowronski, Visiting Lecturer in Electrical
Engineering from the Polish Academy of Sciences will
continue his courses and seminars in the general area of
nonlinear analysis during the spring semester. Under
the direction of Dr. George G. Kuczynski of the Depart-
ment of Metallurgical Engineering and Materials Science
there will be an International Conference on Sintering
and Related Phenomena held at Notre Dame in June.
Lecturers from France, Germany, England, in addition
to those from the U.S., are expected to participate.
A grant from the National Science Foundation will
support a “Summer Institute in Mechanics of Engineer-
ing Structures for College Teachers” under the direction
of Dr. Harry G. Saxe, Head of the Civil Engineering
Department. After this 1965 summer program, Dr. Saxe
will spend a year’s leave-of-absence in England as a re-
sult of being awarded a Science Faculty Fellowship by
the National Science Foundation. Dr. James J. Carberry
of the Chemical Engineering Department will be join-
ing him in England for a year having been awarded a
NSF Senior Postdoctoral Fellowship at Cambridge.
CENTURY OF SCIENCE
(Continued from page 3)
events are scheduled for May 14-15, Burton said, in con-
junction with the spring meeting of the University’s
Advisory Council for Science and Engineering. A Cen-
tennial of Science convocation will be held the afternoon
of May 15 with an internationally prominent speaker
and the conferring of honorary doctorates on a number
of eminent scientists. A Centennial Dinner is to be held
that evening in the North Dining Hall.
“A Century of Science at Notre Dame” will be the
theme of the 42nd annual Universal Notre Dame Night
to be observed at dinner-meetings of alumni and friends
in 175 cities from coast to coast beginning April 19.
Officers of the University and faculty members of the
College of Science will be speakers at the dinners which
traditionally pay tribute to Notre Dame’s academic,
scientific and cultural contributions to American life.
Outstanding alumni of Notre Dame’s College of
Science are to be awarded centennial citations during
the colorful alumni reunion weekend on the campus
June 11-13. Approximately 1,000 Notre Dame graduates
returning to the campus that weekend will receive brief-
ings on scientific developments at the University, view
exhibits and attend a banquet.
Exhibits throughout the year will dramatize the
growth and development of science at Notre Dame and
the major contributions of Notre Dame scientists to their
respective fields through the years, Burton said. Each
of the College’s departments and organized laboratories
is planning exhibits for the concourse of the new Notre
Dame Memorial Library.
Prof. Burton said centennial lecturers will be presented
by each of the science departments during 1965 and several
events will be held at Notre Dame during the year in con-
junction with the Centennial of Science. The Northern
Indiana Regional Science Fair, under the sponsorship of
the University and the South Bend Tribune, will be held
on the campus April 2-3. The Indiana Academy of
Science will convene at Notre Dame October 8-9.
Burton said planning is under way for a major cen-
tennial event to be held late in the year. It will be a
symposium marking the 100th anniversary of the publi-
cation of Gregor Mendel’s findings on heredity in 1865.
19
A spoils iai show at None Dame! Strange to be-
lieve that mkh an ironv exists, rhe hist one. last year,
began when the idea toi such a show was pioposed to
the Detioit Club on campus. Thev utilized that, though
undergraduates liting on campus aie not allowed to
have automobiles, a laige piopoition oi the students
aie still interested, in spoils cars especially. It was a
pleasant suipri.se* to find that moie than students weie
intrigued bv the idea: 11’3 connibutois donated theii
sei vices to the highly successful show.
I’his veai. on April 24-25. the students will again
opeiate the show But this time, instead of directing the1
profits to student scholarships. it has been decided to
forward all gains u» the Notre Dame Foundation Chal-
lenge II Progiam. I ndei this student effort, all monev
donated to the drive will be matched by half again as
much from the- coders of the Ford Foundation. En-
thused bv the prospects ot lending a leal hand to Chal-
will be heightened by various features ol the show, to be
held under the Stepan Center's geodesic dome: racing
movies will be shown, dooi prizes given, and there will be
a spectatoi contest to determine the' show's most populai
display along with a free program for each paid admis-
sion. And each display will have1 someone to explain the
whys and wherefores of each auto to those interested.
As stated, this is a concerted drive on the pait of the
student body to aid the University in Challenge II. Any-
one who has. or knows of. something from the automo-
bile world that would prove interesting in such a ventuie
is requested to contact the chairman of the show. Mi
Gary Kohs, 327 Fisher Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana. Since
this project is being financed entirely by gifts from people
interested in autos and/or Notre Dame, donations aie
still necessary — in the form of program advei tising oi
admission tickets	-for the success of this ex-
tremely ambitious project.
lengt II. mis conceited
efloit bv the .students promises
’s highlv successful show as nothing
to make
in Indiana.
Fhi ee-state publicitv
thiough newspapei and aii-wave media will boost the
largest auto
when viewed next to this newest version of the Spoits
Car Spectac ular.
It evervthing works as planned, this will easily be the
as®



At Stepan Center
attendance to twentv thousand.
Various oi ganizations.
- s
including the SC( A Sports Cai Club of America),
have expressed theii desire to help make this nonprofit
ventuie a complete success. And with the reputation
gained in just a one-time efloit. enough auto owners and
builders have submitted theii products foi display so that
the students can aflord to pi esent selective displays. The
icsult h that the disjflavs will be valued at more than
two million dollars and will include some much-publicized
but seldom seen machines. For example, ihe Ford Cara-
van and the General Motois styling department will set
up theii famous displavs; the Indianapolis STP Special
and Lotus-Ford will be* included; and, in fact, all kinds
of sports cars from Ferrari Italy and the Porsche
9ti4 a very successful sports-race car from the German
him to Singer and Sunbeam Rootes Mtrs.. Ltd.) —-
will be represented.
The Ferrari Club ot America is interested to the
[joint of holding one of their national meetings in South
Bend on that weekend and will have their verv expen-
sive autos present tor the Spectacular. Spectator interest
5 S'* .
20 NOTRE DAME
J 5
•v . jQ
Prior to the 1964 student-
sponsored show, the original
Sting Ray model is unloaded
from a General Motors van.
L
Another headliner in the 1964 S.C.S. was the
Meister Brau Scarab from the Peter Hand
Brewery of Chicago.
*
s’
Last year's Sports Car Spectacular drew large crowds. A
typical group inspects the Chrysler turbine car.
Meister Bran
hi: i;	,





Ml
* 1 * 1


The Ford Motor Company’s Cobra was present last year and
this year's committee promises an even greater variety of
cars for the April 24, 25 Spectacular in the Stepan Center.

| COACH JOHNNY DEE'S FIRST FIGHTING IRISH TEAM—1964-65
Sifting (I-r)—Seniors Larry Sheffield (6-2 guard), Larry Jesewitz (6-8 center), Co-Captain Walt Sahm (6-10 center-
forward), Co-Captain Jay Miller (6-5 forward), Ron Reed (6-6 forward), and Pat Dudgeon (6-2 guard). Standing
(l-r)—Head Coach Johnny Dee, Assistant Coach Chuck Lennon, John Bernardi (5-11 sophomore guard), Bob Bent-
ley (6-3 sophomore guard), Tom Klump (6-4 sophomore forward), Tom Caldwell (6-4 sophomore forward), Tom
Bornhorst (6-4 junior forward-center), Kevin Hardy (6-5 sophomore center), James (Bucky) McGann (6-3 junior
guard), Jim Monahan (6-3 sophomore forward), Kevin O'Neill (6-2 junior guard), Joe Vales (6-2 sophomore guard),
Bill O’Neal (6-0 junior guard), Head Senior Manager Bill Sullivan, and Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., Team Chaplain.
NOTRE DAME NEWS
(Continued from page 2)
will come to Notre Dame under the auspices of the Amer-
ican Federation of Arts’ Artists-in-Residence-in-Museums
Program. With the support of a Ford Foundation grant,
distinguished American painters, sculptors and print-mak-
ers are spending one month in residence at museums and
galleries throughout the country.
PEACE CORPS SEEKS VOLUNTEERS
A U.S. Peace Corps recruiting team headed by former
Notre Dame faculty member Harris Wofford and alum-
nus Paul Delker visited the campus February 14-20,
“Peace Corps Week at Notre Dame.”
Wofford, who formerly taught in the Notre Dame
Law School, is associate director of the Peace Corps in
charge of the Office of Planning, Evaluation and Re-
search. Delker is assistant director of training for Africa.
According to Professor Walter M. Langford, who di-
rected a Peace Corps project in Chile, the recruiting team
explained the purpose, programs and future plans of the
Peace Corps and accepted applications from interested
juniors, seniors and graduate students.
SHELL FOUNDATION GIVES $7,500
The Shell Companies Foundation, Inc., philanthropic
arm of the Shell Oil Company and its subsidiaries, has
awarded a $7,500 grant to the University of Notre Dame
as part of its $1,541,750 aid-to-education program for
1965.
Five thousand dollars of the Notre Dame grant is ear-
marked for the department of chemistry where it will be
used for support of graduate students and the purchase
of research equipment. The balance of $2,500 may be
assigned to general institutional use.
OVER 500 ATTEND CONFERENCE
Malcolm L. Denise, vice president-labor relations of
the Ford Motor Company, and George Burdon, president
of the United Rubber Workers Union, were two of the
featured speakers at the 13th annual Union-Management
Conference held at Notre Dame on February 27, under
the direction of Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., founder
of the event.
“Evaluating Experience Under Collective Bargaining”
was the theme of this year’s sessions. More than 500
industrial executives and labor leaders attended the one-
day conference which was sponsored by the University’s
department of economics in cooperation with the Notre
Dame Law School, unions and management.
FATHER HESBURGH NAMED HONORARY CITIZEN
Notre Dame’s president, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh,
C.S.C., will be awarded the title of Honorary Citizen of
the University of Vienna during the celebration of its
600th anniversary May 10-15.
22 NOTRE DAME
ART GALLERY GETS MEMBERSHIP
The Art Gallery at the University of Notre Dame has
been elected a member of the International Institute for
Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works, it has been
announced by N. Brommelle, secretary general of the
Institute.
As a member of the International Institute, which is
located in the National Gallery, London, England, the
Notre Dame Art Gallery will participate with the leading
museums of the world in programs to advance the stand-
ards and methods of conservation of works of art.
Notre Dame’s program of conservation is directed by
John Howett, University Curator, with Alfred Jakstas,
chief conservator of the Art Institute of Chicago, as con-
sultant.
The Notre Dame Gallery, with approximately 1,000
art objects in its permanent collection, is one of the
largest collegiate collections in the country.
PERETTI JOINS BOARD
Dr. Ettore A. Peretti, head of the department of
metallurgical engineering and materials science at Notre
Dame, was elected to the national board of trustees of
Alpha Sigma Mu, metallurgical and materials engineering
honor society, at its annual meeting in Philadelphia re-
cently.
BURTON NAMED TO EDITOR’S POST
Prof. Milton Burton, director of the Radiation Lab-
oratory and professor of chemistry at the University of
Notre Dame, has been appointed to the board of editors
of The Journal of Chemical Physics for a three-year
period beginning in January. 1.965
Prior to joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1946, Dr.
Burton taught at New York University and the University
of California.
An authority on radiation chemistry, Prof. Burton has
lectured extensively on radiation chemistry and radiation
effects in this country and has addressed scientific groups
in London, Paris, Vienna, Belgrade and Moscow.
GROSS TO STUDY MILLER
Dr. Seymour L. Gross, associate professor of English
at Notre Dame, has been awarded a grant from the
American Philosophical Society to study the manuscripts
of Arthur Miller for his book, Arthur Miller: The Play-
wright in the Modern World. He will study the early
unpublished versions of three Miller plays on deposit in
the University of Texas library.
A specialist in literary and cultural history, Dr. Gross
has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1957.
His books include A Scarlet Letter Handbook, American
Literature Survey, Eudora Welty: A Bibliography, and
Problems of the Social Sciences and Humanities. He has
also written numerous articles on various American and
English literary figures.
ESTABLISH SUDLER MUSIC SCHOLARSHIP
The Louis Sudler Music Foundation, Chicago, Ill., has
established an annual $500 music scholarship at the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame designed to assist students selected
by the University Scholarship Committee upon recom-
mendation by the Notre Dame Music Department. It will
be awarded annually beginning with the 1965-66 aca-
demic year.
SCHAEFER RECEIVES HONOR
Victor A. Schaefer, director of libraries at the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame, has been elected a Knight of the
Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre of Jerusalem,
according to word received here.
A diploma signifying Schaefer’s membership in the
ancient Order, which dates back to the year 1100, bears
the signature of its Cardinal Grand Master, Eugene
Cardinal Tisserant. Cardinal Tisserant, who is Dean of
the Sacred College and Prefect of the Vatican Library,
officiated at the dedication of the Notre Dame Memorial
Library last May.
TEACHERS’ STEREOCHEMISTRY CONFERENCE SET
A conference on stereochemistry for college chemistry
teachers will be held at the University of Notre Dame
June 10-19 with the support of the National Science
Foundation.
The purpose of the conference, according to its direc-
tor, Dr. Rudolph S. Bottei, is “to ground participants
thoroughly in the fundamentals of stereochemistry so
that they can explain succinctly and intelligently to their
own students and also apply the knowledge in their
research.”
Principal lecturers will be Dr. Kurt Mislow, Prince-
ton University; Dr. Jerome J. Berson, University of Wis-
consin; Dr. Mario Farina, Polytechnic Institute of Milan,
Italy; and Dr. Ernest Eliel, head of the Notre Dame
chemistry department.
Informal discussion and problem sessions -will be con-
ducted by Dr. Edgar Garbisch, University of Minnesota;
Dr. Robert Lyle, University of New Hampshire; and Dr.
Joseph West, St. Xavier College of Chicago.
MILAN PRIEST JOINS PHILOSOPHY FACULTY
Rev. Cornelio Fabro, C.P.S., professor of philosophy
at the Catholic University of Milan, is a visiting pro-
fessor of philosophy at the University for the spring
semester under the auspices of the NATO Exchange Pro-
fessor Program. He is the author of several works on
mediaeval and modern philosophy, including a recent
study on the roots of modern atheism.
CARBERRY GETS NSF FELLOWSHIP
Dr. James J. Carberry, associate professor of chemical
engineering at the University of Notre Dame, has been
awarded a National Science Foundation Senior Post-
Doctoral Fellowship for research at Cambridge University
in England during the 1965-66 school year.
Carberry, who has been teaching at Notre Dame since
1961, will conduct research in the Cambridge chemical
engineering department in the area of fluidized catalytic
reactor behavior.
SAMORA AT POVERTY CONFERENCE
Dr. Julian Samora, head of Notre Dame’s sociology
department, participated in the National Conference on
Poverty in Tucson, in January. The conference was held
with the assistance of the Office of Economic Oppor-
tunity.
Samora delivered a paper at the meeting entitled
“Poverty in the Southwest — A Position Paper,” which
was based on a study he recently completed on civil
rights problems of Spanish speaking people underwritten
by a grant from the U.S. Commission of Civil Rights.
23
Edv/ari J .	• i£*acay»
p. 0. Box 436
State Colle_’3t Pa-
Science ar Notre Dame, like the University itself, had humble beginnings.
The covers of this year’s issues of NOTRE DAME magazine will attempt
to artistically interpret the growth of Notre Dame’s scientific research
fields, during the last 100 years.
While Science courses were offered since the founding of the Univer-
sity, the year 1865 is especially significant. At the June 22 commence-
ment in that year, the University awarded its first Bachelor of Science
degree to John Cassidy of Chelsea, Michigan.
The beginning quarter century of Science featured such names as
Father Joseph Carrier, C.S.C., who started the first distinct science course
at the University which included such subjects as Surveying, Astronomy,
Chemistry, Mineralogy, Physics, etc. In fact, it was Father Carrier who
went to France to collect funds, technical equipment, and a library in
science for Notre Dame. He also obtained a six-inch telescope from
Emperor Napoleon III in 1866.
Two other historic names of the earliest era were Father John Zahm
who became assistant to Father Carrier in 1872 both in the library and
the museum, and Father Thomas L. Vagnier, who was professor of Chem-
istry and Physics from 1857.
Another famous name in Notre Dame science was Dr. Albert Zahm,
who in 1882 built the first wind tunnel for comparing the lift and drag
of aeronautical models. In the late 1880’s, Dr. Zahm built a man-carrying
glider. He used it for short flights at night on the campus and later launched
several gliders from the roof of Science Hall.
The University Catalogue of 1878 gave an elaborate description of
the scientific museums on campus — then an important tool for study.
It described the contents of: The Physics Cabinet, The Chemistry Labora-
tory, The Museum of Natural History, The Cabinet of Comparative Oste-
ology, The Mineralogical Cabinet and the Herbarium.
In 1884 the Science Hall was built, housing the Physical and Natural
Sciences. Today, a portion of the LaFortune Student Center is this same
old Science Hall.
Thus, we begin this celebration of a century of Science at Notre
Dame with a few notes and sketches depicting the years 1865 to 1890.
Future issues will treat other eras in a similar manner.