McCarthy wins fellowship
Dr. E. Jerome McCarthy, associate professor of
Marketing Management in the Notre Dame College of
'	Business Administration, has been awarded a Ford Foun-
dation faculty fellowship for research during the 1963-64
’	school year. McCarthy has been granted a leave by the
. I	University to accept the fellowship and conduct a study
on the role of marketing institutions in economic de-
velopment.
SUMMER ENROLLMENT BREAKS RECORD
The University of Notre Dame had a record summer
session enrollment of, 3,175 this year. Rev. Joseph S.
J	McGrath, C.S.C., summer session director, said 1,502
nuns made up the largest group in the student body.
<	Also included in the total summer enrollment were
•;	1,183 laymen, 183 brothers, 249 priests and 58 semi-
.'	narians.
press publishes new book
4	Two Protestant and three Catholic theologians are
contributors to a new book. The Church as the Body of
i	Christ, recently published here by the University of
i	Notre Dame Press. The book emanates from ecumenical
. *	discussions and two theological colloquia held at Notre
।	Dame in October 1961 and 1962. Edited by Rev. Robert
'■!	Pelton. C.S.C., it is the first of the new Cardinal O’Hara
1	Series of Studies and Research in Christian Theology at
,<	Notre Dame. Contributors to the volume include Krister
I	E. Skydsgaard, professor of Systematic Theology, Uni-
versity of Copenhagen: Barnabas Ahern, C.P., of The
d	Passionist Seminary. Louisville, Ky.; Walter J. Burghardt,
<	S.J., editor of Theological Studies, Woodstock, Md.;
Bernard Cooke, S.J.. chairman of the department of
<	Theology at Marquette University, Milwaukee, Wise.:
1	and Franklin H. Littell, of the Chicago Theological
]	Seminary.
•I
I
I	MULLIN NAMED PHYSICS HEAD
' <	Professor Charles L Mullin was named Head of the
d	department of Physics at Notre Dame by Rev. Theodore
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president. Also, Profes-
sor Robert L. Anthony was named assistant department
Head. Mullin, a specialist in theoretical physics, succeeds
Rev. Henry J. Bolger, C.S.C., who has served as Head
of the Notre Dame Physics department for 27 years.
Father Bolger will continue as a member of the University
faculty.
TWO FRESHMEN GET SLOAN GRANTS
Two members of the freshman class entering the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame this September have been awarded
Alfred P. Sloan National Scholarships, according to
Everett Case, president of the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation.
They are Paul Peter Freddolino, 248 Hyatt Avenue,
Yonkers, N.Y., and Patrick James Kennedy, 3200 Lexing-
ton Road, Louisville, Ky. Freddolino and Kennedy will
be among approximately 1,500 new students entering
Notre Dame’s Freshman Year of Studies this year.
METALLURGICAL ENGINEERS HONORED
Professor E. A. Peretti, Head of the Notre Dame de-
partment of Metallurgical Engineering, was awarded an
honorary degree by the Montana School of Mines re-
cently. Another department member. Dr. George Kuczyn-
ski, has been named a Fellow of the American Ceramic
Society.
UNIVERSITY HOSTS CFM CONVENTION
Notre Dame was host to the 13th national convention
of The Christian Family Movement in August. More than
1200 couples representing 128 dioceses throughout the
United States attended the sessions. Prior to the husbands-
and-wives convention, approximately 200 priests asso-
ciated with CFM and the family life apostolate met on
the campus.
AUSTRIAN STUDIES PROGRAM READY
Notre Dame will inaugurate a sophomore year of
studies at Innsbruck, Austria, in 1964. Rev. Chester A.
Soleta, C.S.G., vice president for Academic Affairs,
said Notre Dame’s first foreign study program will be
limited to about 50 sophomores in the University’s
Liberal Arts and Business Administration schools. Courses
will be taught by a Holy Cross priest and a layman
from the Notre Dame faculty and by three faculty
members from the University of Innsbruck.
DEPARTMENT NAME CHANGES
The Political Science department at the University
of Notre Dame has been reorganized and re-named the
department of Government and International Studies.
Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., vice president for Aca-
demic Affairs, said the change in name and administra-
tion was prompted largely by the growth of international
studies programs at Notre Dame, particularly within the
last ten years.
(Continued on page 18)
n
• EDITOR: JOHN H. JANOWSKI
h
NOTRE DAME VOL. 16, No. 3, FALL, 1963
Published quarterly by the University of Notre
Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second
class matter May 10, 1928, at Post Office at Notre
Dame, Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.
2 NOTRE DAME
Thousands of Notre Dame alumni and friends, area
residents, and Civil War devotees converged on Gettys-
burg, Pa., on June 29 for an event commemorating a
little-told but dramatic episode in the historic battle of
Gettysburg which pitted 75,000 Confederate soldiers
against 97,000 Union troops, just 100 years ago.
As New York’s “Irish Brigade” prepared to enter the
battle, its chaplain. Rev William Corby, C.S.C., mounted
a large rock and imparted general absolution to the troops.
Observers noted that men of all faiths were genuinely
moved by this act. As they fell to their knees, many
reflected that when this battle was over, hundreds of
their comrades, and perhaps they themselves, would no
longer be alive.
3
Father Corby, who later became president of the
University of Notre Dame from 1866 to 1872 and from
1877 to 1881, was the only Catholic chaplain present at
Gettysburg. But the centennial observance in June of
this year paid tribute not only to him, but to all the
chaplains of the Civil War, both North and South.
Rev. Thomas J. O’Donnell, C.S.C., of Notre Dame
was chairman of the centennial observance. He was
assisted in arrangements for the affair by Rev. Joseph
Kealy, pastor of St. Francis Xavier Church in Gettys-
burg, George D. Rosensteel and Paul Roy of Gettysburg,
committees from the Notre Dame Alumni Clubs of
Philadelphia and Harrisburg, and other University of-
ficials.
President John F. Kennedy sent as his personal rep-
resentative, John S. Gleason, head of the Veterans Ad-
ministration and a Notre Dame alumnus. Also, former
president Dwight D. Eisenhower and his wife were
honored guests.
In addition to blessing a new plaque near the statue
of Father Corby on the Gettysburg battlefield, the observ-
ance was highlighted by a recitative military field Mass,
celebrated by Bishop Leech of Harrisburg. At the con-
clusion of the Mass, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.G.,
president of Notre Dame, delivered an address entitled,
“Gettysburg — Yesterday and Today.'5 The text of that
speech concludes this article.
(Address delivered by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh,
C.S.C., President, University of Notre Dame, Battle of
Gettysburg Centennial Observance, Gettysburg, Penn-
sylvania, June 29, 1963.)
Our ceremony began this morning with the blessing
of a new plaque attached to the old statue of Father
William Corby, one of Notre Dame’s distinguished
Presidents, standing on a rock raising his hand in eternal
absolution on a battlefield now empty of the troops who
once stood before him on that fateful July 2 morning,
one hundred years ago, except for those who rest forever
beneath this hollowed soil. Much of the scene is lost in a
hundred years. We would do well to listen to one who
was there, who saw what happened, and who recorded
it. The writer is Major General St. Clair Mulholland,
then a colonel in the Irish Brigade.
‘‘Now (as the Third Corps is being pressed back)
help is called for, and Hancock tells Caldwell to have
his men ready. ‘Fall in!’ and the men run to their places.
‘Take arms!’ and the four brigades of Zook, Cross, Brook,
and Kelly are ready for the fray. There are yet a few
minutes to spare before starting, and time is occupied by
one of the most impressive religious ceremonies I have
ever witnessed. The Irish Brigade, which had been
commanded formerlv bv General Thomas Francis
Meagher, and whose green flag had been unfurled in
every battle in which the Army of the Potomac had been
engaged from the first Bull Run to Appomattox, and
Father Thomas O'Donnell, Father Hesburgh and James E. Murphy,
director of Public Information for the University confer briefly before
the statue of Father Corby on the Gettysburg battlefield. The new plaque
which was unveiled at the June ceremonies (below), was donated by
the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Philadelphia.
4 NOTRE DAME

was now commanded by Colonel Patrick Kelly of the
Eighty-eighth New York, formed a part of this division.
The brigade stood in column of regiments, closed in mass.
As a large majority of its members were Catholics, the
Chaplain of the brigade, Reverend William Corby, pro-
posed to give a general absolution to all the men before
going into the fight. . . . Father Corby stood on a large
rock in front of the brigade. Addressing the men, he
explained what he was about to do, saying that each
one could receive the benefit of the absolution by making
a sincere Act of Contrition . . . urging them to do their
duty, and reminding them of the high and sacred nature
of their trust as soldiers and the noble object for which
they fought . . . the brigade was standing at ‘Order
arms!’ As he closed his address, every man, Catholic and
non-Catholic, fell on his knees with his head bo-wed down.
Then, stretching his right hand toward the brigade,
Father Corby pronounced the words of absolution.
MORE THAN IMPRESSIVE
“The scene was more than impressive; it was awe-
inspiring. Nearby stood a brilliant throng of officers who
had gathered to witness this very unusual occurence,
and while there was profound silence in the ranks of
the Second Corps, yet over to the left, out by the peach
orchard and Little Round Top, where Weed and Vin-
cent and Hazlitt were dying, the roar of the battle rose
and swelled and re-echoed through the woods, making
music more sublime than ever sounded through cathedral
aisle. The act seemed to be in harmony with the sur-
roundings. I do not think there was a man in the bri-
gade who did not offer up a heartfelt prayer. For some,
it was their last; they knelt there in their grave clothes.
In less than half an hour many of them were numbered
with the dead of July 2nd. Who can doubt that their
prayers were good? What was wanting in the eloquence
of the priest to move them to repentance was supplied
in the incidents of the fight.”
Father Corby himself wrote a quarter of a century
later: “That general absolution was intended for all, not
only for our brigade, but for all, North or South, who
were susceptible of it and who were about to appear
before their Judge. Let us hope that many thousands of
souls, purified by hardships, fasting, prayer and blood,
met a favorable sentence on the ever memorable battle-
field of Gettysburg.”
What does all of this drama mean to us, a hundred
years later, as we stand on the same battlefield? The
least that might be expected is that we would under-
stand today what Father Corby called “the noble object
for which they fought” . . . and died. We, too, await
our Judgment. As President Lincoln put it so magnificent-
ly: “The world will little note nor long remember, what
we say here, but it can never forget what they did here.
From top to bottom: Father O'Donnell, general chairman of the
Gettysburg observance, addresses the audience after the Military Field
Mass. (2) Distinguished guests included Mr. and Mrs. Eisenhower and
Father Hesburgh. (3) The procession of clergy prior to the ceremonies
held at the Eternal Light Peace Memorial. (4) The color guard of the
Hibernian Greens of Philadelphia. (5) The delegation of Fourth Degree
Knights of Columbus who formed a “living cross" during the Field Mass.
It is for us the living, rather, to be dedicated here to
the unfinished work which they who fought here have
thus far so nobly advanced. It is rather for us to be
here dedicated to the great task remaining before us —
that from these honored dead we take increased devo-
tion to that cause for which they gave the last full meas-
ure of devotion — that we here highly resolve that these
dead shall not have died in vain; that this nation shall
have a new birth of freedom. ...”
This, I take it, is what the Civil War was all about,
it was for freedom, and specifically for the freedom of
Negro Americans, that it was fought. If we forget this
unfinished business, then there will be nothing but mock-
ery in this centennial celebration. We will have missed
the deep and tragic issues that cost so many lives.
Bruce Catton has put it so well, that I shall not at-
tempt to improve upon his language: “We know that
in a strange, almost mystic way, modem America be-
gan to take shape in the Civil War. We also know that
something priceless was won for us in it — that our
American horizon was somehow broadened by it, that it
left us with a deeper and more challenging responsibility,
with a piece of unfinished business which demands our
most earnest attention. . . . The Civil War meant that
the Negro slave would become an American citizen and
it left us with the eternal, inescapable obligation to see
to it that that citizenship is made good. . . . Winning
that freedom for the Negro, we won it also for all the
people who then or ever would become Americans —
including ourselves. We can never have, permanently, a
second-class citizenship in America. Because of the Civil
War, we are not that kind of country. ... We bought
that commitment at the price of 600,000 lives. More
Americans than died in all our wars from the American
Revolution to Korea. It is something we can never
ignore.”
o
OUR UNFINISHED BUSINESS
What better place to ponder our unfinished business
this morning than at Gettysburg, where so much of
the blood and sweat and tears, that are the price of free-
dom, were paid. Gettysburg is not just a battlefield; it
is a sacred shrine of freedom won again, in new propor-
tion, for a nation “conceived in liberty, and dedicated
to the proposition that all men are created equal.” The
struggle, heroically engaged here, still goes on as we
commit ourselves anew to this proposition in every vil-
lage and city of every state in America. The Civil War
did not solve the tragic issue, it merely reestablished the
proposition and left to us the task of making the promise
of our Constitution come true for all Americans.
I am not so sure that President Lincoln always saw
this as a moral issue. One of his biographers, Thomas,
tells us that when the City of Washington was ringed
around by Confederate troops, and the war seemed
lost, he suddenly realized with new clarity, what the
war was all about. At that time, Thomas says, Lincoln
made a promise to God, that if Washington were spared,
he would at the earliest opportunity proclaim the moral
issue in its clearest terms. Washington was spared, and
with the new year, Lincoln, against the advice of his
whole Cabinet, made the Emancipation Proclamation.
Making it, he flew in the face of practical expediency,
The color guard from the “Fighting 69th'' of New York marches in
the procession prior to the Military Field Mass (above). The Clan Na
Gael Pipe Band lends a musical note to the ceremonies as it marches to
the Gettysburg Centennial observance (below).
and stood clearly and unequivocally on the point of
morality. That he was right, and the politicians wrong,
might be deduced from his most endearing title here,
and especially in all of the new nations around the
world: The Great Emancipator.
It may not have occurred to you, but each one of
us must be, in these our times, great emancipators, to
finish up in this centenary year as completely and as dra-
matically as possible, in all our own communities across
the land, the unfinished business of which Lincoln spoke
here: the work of freedom. Our President has now
spoken out upon the moral issue that faces us all. Our
Congress has before it a bill that attempts to hasten the
completion of the unfinished business. There may well
be another battle of Gettysburg in the Congress, but in
the end the issue must be settled as it was settled here,
for we are a nation committed to the proposition that
all men were created equal. Anything less than that is
unworthy of the thousands of men who died here. But
when all the laws have been enacted, when all of the
judgments of the Supreme Court are assessed, when all
the Presidential speeches are recorded, there still re-
mains the real unfinished business. Individual Americans
died here, and only individual Americans can make that
for which these soldiers died at Gettysburg come true
in their own communities. Moral issues must be recog-
nized and acknowledged in individual hearts and con-
sciences. The appalling dearth of freedom for millions of
Negro Americans today, in voting, in employment, in
housing, in education, in public accommodations, and
in the administration of justice, is not something auto-
matic. It is a positive act; it is freedom denied by one
American to another American, and until every white
American decides to act morally towards every Negro
American, there is no end to the unfinished business.
The sounds of battle have died away. The heroic deeds
are done. Gettysburg is cloaked in peace. But the issue
6
NOTRE DAME
statue of Father Corby on the
Father Hesburgh blesses a new plaque at the
1960
the feeling
a memorial
hazard for
raised and bloodily engaged here still clamors for a
final answer. There are six times more Americans in
America now than there were at the time of the Civil
War. Can we give a final answer at long last? Can we
finally make freedom live for all Americans? Only if
each one of us dedicates ourselves “to the great task
still remaining before us, that from these honored dead
we take increased devotion — that we here highly re-
solve that these dead shall not have died in vain; that
this nation shall have a new birth in freedom.”
This I believe, is the true challenge of Gettysburg
today. May all Americans hear it deeply in their hearts
and souls and may they ponder the real depths of this
greatest domestic challenge of our times which can be
expressed no better than President Lincoln expressed it
in terms of human equality: “Now we are engaged in
a great civil war, testing whether that nation, or any
nation so conceived (in liberty) can long endure.” Battle-
fields are like this. They confront us, as they confronted
the brave men who made this place a landmark of hero-
ism, with the ultimate of all moral tests: survival.
We are not asked to die, but to live in the spirit of
this place. And if we are not capable of upholding the
inner core of what America really stands for, no one
of us deserves the blessings of liberty for which these men
died. Survival, without nationwide liberty, would be a
travesty of the victory won here, at the turning point of
a bitter, tragic war; it would be a sad anticlimax to
the centennial that we celebrate at Gettysburg. America,
and the world, deserve better of us, and of these hal-
lowed dead. May each of us be equal to the challenge
of Gettysburg: freedom to the free.
Gettysburg battlefield during unveiling ceremonies featuring Mrs. Arthur Carey of
Rocky River, Ohio, a niece of Civil War Chaplain Father Corby, and Gen. John S.
Gleason, head of the U.S. Veterans Administration.
Former President Eisenhower and his wife receive a personal message from Pope
Paul VI from Father Hesburgh prior io the Gettysburg ceremonies. Both Eisenhower
and the new Pope received honorary degrees from Notre Dame during the
commencement exercises.
REMARKS BY GENERAL GLEASON
REPRESENTING PRESIDENT KENNEDY
Five score years ago the ground on which we
here stand shuddered under the clash of arms and
was consecrated for all time by the blood of
American manhood.
Abraham Lincoln, in dedicating this great battle-
field, has expressed, in words too eloquent for
paraphrase or summary, why this sacrifice was
necessary.
Today, we meet not to add to his words nor to
amend his sentiment but to recapture
of awe that comes when contemplating
to so many who placed their lives at
right, as God gave them to see right.
Among those who fought here were young men
who but a short time before were pursuing truth in
peaceful halls of the then-new University of Notre
Dame. Since that time men of Notre Dame have
proven, on a hundred battlefields, that the words,
“For God, For Country, and For Notre Dame,” are
full of meaning.
Let us pray that God may grant us the wisdom
to find and to follow a path that will enable the
men of Notre Dame and all of our young men to
seek truth in the halls of study rather than on the
field of battle.


“ . . . the pursuit
of excellence . . . ”
DEAK^; ’ © WaWfT...
Graduate School
To the Class of 1963, including students
who come only for the summer sessions,
the University awarded 51 degrees of Doc-
tor of Philosophy and 476 Master’s degrees
of various types. Approximately two-thirds
of the Master’s degrees were awarded to
summer students; all doctoral students
study during the academic year.
In the Summer Session of 1963 a total
of 3188 students were enrolled—2699 in
the Graduate School and 489 in the
undergraduate colleges. Sisters, from all
parts of the United States and Canada,
were very much in evidence; there were
1508. When the planned residence hall for
Sisters is built in several years, the Gradu-
ate School will be able to accommodate
more than the usual 70 during the aca-
demic year.
In the 1963-64 school year 22 graduate
students will be studying here on NDEA
fellowships — five in English, five in Phi-
losophy, six in Soviet and East European
Studies, and six in Chemical Engineering.
A sixth NDEA fellow in Philosophy has
secured a postponement of his final year’s
support in order that he might go to the
University of Louvain in 1963-64 on a
Fulbright award. In addition, six students
in Science or in Engineering will be
studying here on NSF Cooperative Gradu-
ate Fellowships, a similar number on
regular NSF Graduate Fellowships, eight
on NASA Traineeships, and several on
Public Health Traineeships. This is not
a complete list of awards; these are men-
tioned to indicate the steady growth in
quality of our graduate students.
Law School
The annual law scholarship campaign
realized a record amount this year. It is
the Law Scholarship Fund which makes
it possible to bring to Notre Dame stu-
dents such as the 1963 graduate who
recently wrote the School as follows:
“I want to thank you and the others
who were responsible for my scholarship.
I will not say that I could not have gone
to law school if it had not been for that
scholarship. I will say, though, that I
could not have come to Notre Dame with-
out it. And at no other law school in the
country could I have studied law on such
a beautiful campus, been driven to work
by an entire Faculty as never before, writ-
ten for the law review, argued a moot-
Thomas T. Murphy
College of Business Administration
Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C.
Graduate School
Joseph O'Meara, Jr.
Law School
Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C.
College of Arts and Letters
court case before Justice White of the
Supreme Court, and made such close life-
long friends among both students and
Faculty. For those glorious three years of
‘law in the grand manner’ I say a very
heartfelt thank you.”
College of Arts and Letters
The College of Arts and Letters will
open the 1963-64 school year with 1700
students, 550 of these entering the College
from the new Freshman Year of Studies.
The College will continue to encourage
diversification in students’ programs of
studies, allowing more optional ways to
meet area requirements rather than a
rigid sequence of required courses.
The Department of Political Science
has been restructured to give greater
emphasis to international affairs. The new
Department of Government and Interna-
tional Studies will administer the foreign
area studies now in progress or being de-
veloped.
Most of the liberal arts faculty are mov-
ing into their new offices in the Memorial
Library. Offices they are vacating in
O’Shaughnessy Hall will be rearranged
to supply much needed seminar and con-
ference rooms.
Three departments of the College will
begin the school year with new heads.
They are Father Leonard N. Banas,
C.S.C. in Classics, Dr. Robert D. Nuner
in Modern Languages, and Dr. Julian
Samora in Sociology. Father Albert L.
Schlitzer, C.S.C. will be acting head of
the Department of Theology during the
year’s absence of Father Robert Pelton,
C.S.C.
The College also welcomes Colonel R.
H. Spritzen, USMG as the new com-
manding officer of the Naval ROTC.
Colonel Spritzen is the first Marine to
head up the Naval unit at Notre Dame.
All the ROTC departments are within
the College of Arts and Letters.
College of Business Administration
In the fall of 1963 a revised three-year
undergraduate program gets under way in
the College of Business Administration.
The sophomore will continue his liberal
studies in Philosophy and Literature and
will begin his business study of the quan-
titative and qualitative tools of business:
Accounting, Statistics, and Economic Anal-
8
NOTRE DAME
ysis. In the junior year the student will
enter the study of functional areas of
business: Finance, Marketing, Manage-
ment, and Control — and study the eco-
nomic environment of business: Monetary,
Banking, and Fiscal Theory. In the senior
year the student will concentrate in an
area of business: Accounting, Finance,
Management, or Marketing, and will study
the legal framework of business. The ob-
jective of the new revision of curriculum
is to provide “A Liberal Education for
Business Responsibility.”
With the fall of 1963 the College wel-
comes two new department heads: Dr.
Bernard J. Kilbride, department of Fi-
nance and Business Economics; and Dr.
John J. Kennedy, department of Market-
ing Management. Dr. Kilbride comes from
the faculty of the University of Illinois
and Dr. Kennedy from the Ohio State
faculty. Professors Paul Conway and John
Houck return to campus after one-year
leaves of absence from the University.
Mr. David McCracken has been appointed
instructor in Business Organization and
Management.
In the summer of 1963 Dean Murphy
lectured at the postgraduate School of
the Navy at Monterey, California, and
Professor Furuhashi taught at Sophia
University, Tokyo, Japan. The following
faculty members participated in study and
research projects: Professor Bender at the
University of Wisconsin; Professor Eells
at Indiana University; Professor Reid at
Carnegie Institute of Technology; Pro-
fessor Stern at the University of Chicago;
Professor Horrigan received a Securities
Industries Fellowship and studied in New
York.
College of Engineering
Approximately 950 students will be
enrolled in the College of Engineering
for the academic year 1963-64 at the
sophomore, junior, senior and fifth-year
levels. The present sophomore class will
be the first class following through on
the new curricula which were devised
to take maximum advantage of the Uni-
versity Freshman Year of Studies.
Some 12 new faculty members have
joined their colleagues in the various
Engineering departments and in the de-
partment of Architecture. Retirements,
resignations and losses account for two-
thirds of this number but the remainder
represent an actual staff increase serving
to enhance both instruction and research
in the entire College. In addition to these
regular faculty members, Dr. Klaus Eg-
gers, a specialist in hydrodynamics from
Norman R. Gay
College of Engineering
Frederick D. Rossini
College of Science
William M. Burke
Freshman Year of Studies
CREDITS
Most of the photo-
graphs appearing in
this issue were taken
by M. Bruce Harlan,
University photogra-
pher.
The majority of lay-
out and artwork was
provided by A. C.
Balmer.
The sketches of Notre
Dame football coaches
were drawn by Duff
Grandusky.
Germany, will spend a year in the de-
partment of Engineering Science as a
National Science Foundation Senior For-
eign Scientist Fellow.
Dr. Edward W. Jerger has been ap-
pointed Head of the Department of Me-
chanical Engineering. Dr. Jerger has de-
grees from Marquette University, the
University of Wisconsin and Iowa State.
University and has been on the staff at
Notre Dame since 1955.
In the Department of Electrical Engi-
neering, Dr. Basil R. Myers has been ap-
pointed Head of that department. Dr.
Myers received his undergraduate educa-
tion a.t Birmingham, England, and his
graduate training at the University of
Illinois, and was formerly Head of the
Electrical Engineering Department at the
State University of Iowa.
Professor Raymond J. Schubmehl con-
tinues as Assistant Dean of the College
entering his fourth decade of devoted and
excellent service to the University.
College of Science
The College of Science is entering the
academic year 1963-64 with a new class
of Sophomores (coming from the Fresh-
man Year of Studies), a new crop of first-
year Graduate Students, some new Mem-
bers of the Faculty, new curricula in each
of the Departments (Biology, Chemistry,
Geology, Mathematics, Physics, and Pre-
professional Studies), and some new
building facilities. We have the big chal-
lenge of welding our manpower and ma-
terial resources into an educational enter-
prise that will bring forth the best in all
of us, students and Faculty alike.
Our new undergraduate students and
our new graduate students continue to
improve in intellectual quality year by
year, as measured by the standard na-
tional tests, the former by the College
Entrance Examination Board Scores and
the latter by the Graduate Record Exam-
ination Scores.
A number of changes have occurred
in the Faculty of the College of Science:
In the Department of Chemistry, Dean
Rossini will continue as Acting Head until
January 1, 1964, when Professor Ernest
L. Eliel assumes the Headship for a term
of three years. Two Assistant Heads have
been appointed for the Department of
Chemistry, Professor Emil T. Hofman, in
charge of the Freshman Program, the
Summer Session, and the Evening Pro-
gram, in Chemistry, beginning July 1,
1963, and Professor Vincent J. Traynelis,
in charge of the Undergraduate and
Graduate Students in Chemistry, begin-
9
“ . . . the pursuit
of excellence . . . 33

ning September 1, 1963. In the Depart-
ment of Mathematics, Professor Thomas
E. Stewart was appointed Head-Designate
in January, becoming Head, effective July
1, 1963, for a term of two years, succeed-
ing Professor Arnold E. Ross, who served
17 years in that post. In the Department
of Physics, Professor Charles J. Mullin
was appointed Head, effective September
1, 1963, succeeding the Reverend Henry
J. Bolger, C.S.C., who served '2’7 years in
that post. Professor Ralph E. Thorson
continues as Head of the Department of
Biology, Professor Raymond C. Gutschick
as Head of the Department of Geology,
and Associate Dean Lawrence H. Balding-
er as Head of the Department of Pre-
professional Studies. Professor Morris
Pollard continues as Director of the Lo-
bund Laboratory and Professor Milton
Burton as Director of the Radiation Lab-
oratory.
Freshman Year of Studies
Although it is too early to attempt any
conclusive analysis of the Freshman Year
of Studies Program, certain items become
apparent as one reviews the first year of
operation.
Of major significance was our dismissal
rate of approximately two per cent; rough-
ly thirty freshmen out of fifteen hundred
were dropped for low academic achieve-
ment. Of this group, four will be per-
mitted to return to summer school next
year because their improvement during
the spring term and summer school war-
rants a second chance.
Perhaps the reason we have been able
to keep our dismissal percentage so low is
due to the efficient Faculty-Advisory Pro-
gram that works within the framework
of the Freshman Office. Dean Father
O’Neill, Dean Raymond, Professors Scan-
nell, Wilhelm, Mead, and DiCicco were
available one hundred hours a week to
discuss with freshmen any academic prob-
lems that might arise. These men, all
experienced teachers, were most capable
of coping with freshman difficulties. This
constant awareness of the individual fresh-
man, more than any other single factor,
helped to keep the dismissal rate at a
minimum. Notre Dame is unique among
the leading colleges in the country in off-
ering to freshmen this personal type of
faculty counselling.
Finally, the flexibility of movement
from one intent to another within the Freshman Year Program was
accomplished with a minimum of course changes.
If I had to credit two factors that were most instrumental toward
making our Program successful in its initial year of operation, I would
commend the Deans-Faculty Academic counselling as the major positive
aid and follow up this with an acknowledgement of the flexibility of the
Freshman Course Program. It has been a good first year of operation.
KERTESZ NAMED MILES PROFESSOR
The establishment of a professorship in Political Science at Notre
Dame by Miles Laboratories, Inc., Elkhart, Ind., was announced recently
Dr. Stephen Kertesz
ingly dangerous gap between
he said, “the scientist must
imponderable political forces,
by Edward H. Beardsley, Miles president,
and Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, G.S.G.,
University president.
They said the new faculty chair has
been named the Franklin Miles Professor-
ship of Political Science in memory of the
physician who was a founding partner of
the pharmaceutical firm in 1884. The
professorship will be held by Dr. Stephen
Kertesz, chairman of Notre Dame’s Com-
mittee on International Relations and di-
rector of the Soviet and East European
Studies Program at the University.
Beardsley said the Miles-Ames Founda-
tion is underwriting the new Notre Dame
professorship to help narrow “the increas-
technology and political science.” Today,
be educated to appreciate the nature of
and the student of international relations
must study constantly the impact of physical science on his work.”
Dr. George N. Shuster, (left), assistant to the president of Notre Dame, attends the
funeral of Pope John XXI11, along with Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson and educator Benjamin
Mays, representing the official United States delegation appointed by President Kennedy.
10
NOTRE DAME
telephones at
Notre Dame
the basement
,1
Cut Out For Reference
i
Dean’s
Dean’s
Dean’s
Dean’s
4. Streamline switching equipment serving
telephones into a compact, efficient unit located in
of the new Notre Dame Memorial Library.
The new system will increase the number of
m in iw w ।
DIAL ANY
NOTRE DAME OFFICE
284 and the number
The University of Notre Dame has expanded and modernized
telephone service on its campus with introduction of a new
communications system, Centrex, in mid-August.
Rev. Jerome Wilson, C.S.C , vice president for Business
Affairs, said the new Centrex system was designed by Indiana
Bell Telephone Company to provide “the world’s most modern
service,” and will:
1.	Nearly double the total number of telephones in the Uni-
versity’s administration and faculty offices;
2.	Speed service by making possible direct dialing of both
local and long-distance calls to and from campus telephones
without intercession by a campus operator;
3.	Improve intercommunication between any two of the
University’s approximately 1,000 campus telephones; and
the disposal of the University’s administrative staff and will pro-
vide telephones for all faculty offices. The new equipment also
will make it possible to introduce telephone service in all indi-
vidual student residence hall rooms — a further service improve-
ment the University plans to inaugurate at a future date.
Under Centrex’s direct-dialing feature, calls to the University
from any off-campus telephone may be completed simply by
dialing the first three digits (284) of the University’s general
telephone number and then the four additional digits of the par-
ticular campus number being called. It will not be necessary for
the call to be routed through a campus operator.
However, should the outside caller be unsure of the number
of the campus phone being called — or uncertain as to the exact
campus location to which his call should go — he may dial the
general University number. A Notre Dame operator will then
supply the needed information or route the call. Should an in-
coming call be dialed to the wrong campus extension, it may be
transferred quickly to the proper telephone by the Notre Dame
Information operator.
This direct-dialing feature also will operate in reverse for
campus callers placing either local or long-distance calls to “out-
side” telephones.
Any telephone in the Notre Dame system will be able to place
a direct call to any other by the simple dialing of the four-digit
extension number of the other party.
New numbers which have been assigned University telephones
under Centrex bear all-numeral prefixes. The general, all-number
prefix at Notre Dame is “284”; the number for the University’s
central switchboard is 284-6011.
For the convenience of many alumni and friends of the Uni-
versity, we are publishing here a list of the most frequently called
numbers at Notre Dame. Perhaps you will want to save this list
for future reference.


DIAL DIRECT TO THESE
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME OFFICES
On campus dial LAST four numerals —
Off campus dial ALL seven numerals
Academic Affairs, Vice-President’s Office
Academic Affairs Office ______________
Assistant to V.P. Academic Affairs ___
Admissions Office_______________________
Bookstore, The Hammes Notre Dame ...
Business Affairs, Vice-President’s Office .
Assistant V.P. Business Affairs ______
Chaplain, Students’ ____________________
Comptroller ____________________________
General Accounting Office ____________
Payroll Office________________________
Computing Center _______________________
Dean’s Office, College of Arts & Letters .
Dean’s Office, College of Business
Administration _______________________
Office, College of Engineering ...
Office, Freshman Year of Studies
Office, College of Law__________
Office, College of Science______

Dean of Students’ Office _____________
Director of Athletics ________________
Business Manager of Athletics ......
Head Football Coach’s Office _______
Sports Publicity Office ____________
Ticket Office, Athletics _____________
Director of Food Services ____________
North Dining Hall __________________
South Dining Hall ____________________
Executive Vice-President’s Office_____
Holy Cross Seminary ___________________
Library, New Memorial ________________
Maintenance and Construction
Director of Maintenance ............
Director of New Bldg. Engr. &
Campus Planning _________________
Supervisor of Buildings__________
Pastor — Sacred Heart Church ____
Personnel Office _____________________
Placement Office _____________________
Power Plant Office _____________________
President’s Office ........... —......
Press, University ______________________
Public Relations & Development
Vice-President’s Office ____________
Alumni Office .......................
Foundation Office ..................
Public Information Office .......
Public Relations Office ..................._
Radiation Laboratory _________________.
Security Office — Campus Guards ______
Student Affairs, Vice-President’s Office
Asst. V.P. Student Affairs _________
Theatre, University ----------
University of Notre Dame--------------
284-6631
284-7162
284-7043
284-7505
284-6316
284-6666
284-6646
284-7032
284-6401
284-7484
284-9575
284-7415
284-6642
284-7236
284-7216
284-7242
284-6626
284-6291
284-6144
284-6107
284-7246
284-6525
284-7516
284-7354
284-7254
284-6176
284-7254
284-6502
284-6185
284-7317
284-6652
284-7225
284-7107
284-7511
284-7144
284-6255
284-6594
284-6383
284-6346
284-7479
284-7267
284-6455
284-7367
284-6362
284-6163
284-6130
284-7308
284-7308
284-7053
284-6011
For information on telephone numbers dial
284-6011 (8:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M.)

■" J1 "W"?
MSGR. HUGHES HONORED
Rt. Rev. Msgr. Philip Hughes, (left) the noted British historian of the
Roman Catholic Church, is congratulated by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh,
C.S.C., (right) Notre Dame president, after receiving an honorary degree
of the summer commencement exercises on August 3. Msgr. Hughes, who
is retiring from the Notre Dame faculty after eight years, was cited as
"a great priest, a great historian and a great personality. . . . The
depth of his learning and the elegance of his prose style are enduring
models for those who would serve the Church through scholarship,” the
citation read.
Responsible Parenthood Stressed
In an article appearing simultaneously last month, in
two major Catholic and Protestant magazines, Rev. John
A. O’Brien claims Catholics and non-Catholics “are in
substantial agreement” on the necessity for family plan-
ning in a world where the population is increasing at
unprecedented speed.
Writing in The Ave Maria and The Christian
Century, Father O’Brien says he believes Catholics and
non-Catholics can work together for responsible parent-
hood “with each group following its conscience to
achieve the same important goal.”
Father O’Brien, who is a research professor of the-
ology at the University of Notre Dame and author of
more than a score of books, contends that “the prudent
regulation of births and the clear consciousness of the
responsibility they entail” constitute the key to construc-
tive action on the population problem, both nationally
and internationally.
Rev. John A. O'Brien
Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C.
FATHER WALSH NAMED VICE PRESIDENT
Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., was appointed vice
president for public relations and development at the
University of Notre Dame in June, 1963. He had served
as director of the Notre Dame Foundation and assistant
to the president of the University since February, 1961.
Still earlier, he was head of the University’s department
of Education for three-and-a-half years.
As a vice president of the University, Father Walsh
directs the activities of a professional staff of 14 laymen
engaged in Notre Dame’s public relations and develop-
ment programs.
A specialist in the philosophy of education, Father
Walsh is widely known as a speaker and a lecturer. In
1960, he addressed the White House Conference on Chil-
dren and Youth. He is a graduate of Notre Dame and
received his doctorate from Yale University.
LIBRARY MAKES BIG MOVE
Notre Dame Librarian Victor Schaefer (left) helps load cases of books
onto a conveyor for transfer to the new, thirteen-story Notre Dame
Memorial Library. Four hundred seventy-five thousand volumes were trans-
ferred from the school's present library, built in 1917, to the $8,000,000
building which opened this fall. The new library will have a capacity of
2 million volumes and will seat nearly half of Notre Dame's undergraduate
student body.
12
NOTRE DAME
It all started back in 1887, when the University of
Michigan defeated a football team from the University
of Notre Dame by a score of 8 to 0.
That was 76 years ago, but because no football
teams from Notre Dame competed during 1890 and
1891, this fall’s gridiron card of 10 games marks the
Diamond Jubilee season of Irish football.
During this 75 years, Notre Dame has had many foot-
ball coaches, but few of them are remembered prior to
1913 when Jesse Harper became head coach. Just for
the record, here’s a list of Fighting Irish head coaches
and their records through the years, with the 1887-89
and 1892-93 omitted because there was no head coach:
KNUTE K. ROCKNE
1918-1930
Won _____105
Lost ...  12
Tied ..... 5
Year	Coach
Won Lost Tied
1887-1888-1889-1892-1893 — There		was no	head	coach
during	these years.			
1894	J. L. Morison 		. 3	2	1
1895	H. G. Hadden 		. 3	1	0
1896-98	Frank E. Hering			. 12	6	1
1899	James McWeeney 			. 6	3	1
1900-01	Patrick O’Dea 					. 14	4	2
1902-03	James Faragher 			. 13	2	2
1904	Louis Salmon 				. 5	3	0
1905	Henry J. McGlew 		. 5	4	1
1906-07	Thomas Barry 							. 12	1	1
1908	Victor M. Place		. 8	1	0
1909-10	Frank C. Longman 		 o	. 11	1	2
1911-12	L. H. Marks				. 13	0	2
1913-17	Jesse G. Harper 			. 33	5	1
1918-30	Knute Rockne 					.. 105	12	5
1931-33	Heartly (Hunk) Anderson.	.. 16	9	2
1934-40	Elmer Layden		.. 47	13	3
1941-43	Frank Leahy				.. 24	3	3
1944	Edward McKeever 		..	8	2	0
1945	Hugh Devore 				..	7	2	1
1946-53	Frank Leahy					.. 63	8	6
1954-58	Terry Brennan 				.. 32	18	0
1959-62	Joe Kuharich 		.. 17	23	0
13
The 1963 football season, with Head Coach Hugh
7	o
Devore at the helm and a generous supply of returning
lettermen and promising sophomores, will severely test
Notre Dame’s ability to improve their all-time totals of
465 wins, 126 losses and 34 ties — including 18 unde-
feated seasons and eight National Championships.
It also marks the second time in history that a Notre
Dame head football coach has returned to the job after
having once relinquished it. Following the 1943 season,
Frank Leahy went on active duty with the U. S. Navy.
HEARTLY (HUNK) ANDERSON
1931-1933
Won—16, Lost—9, Tied—2
He came back for the 1946 season, took over the reins
from Coach Hugh Devore, led the Fighting Irish to a
perfect 8-0-1 record, and won a national championship
as a result of holding the vaunted Army team to a score-
less tie in New York’s Yankee Stadium.
In 1963, Coach Hugh Devore returns to Cartier
Field and the Notre Dame Stadium as head coach, suc-
ceeding Joseph Kuharich.
When his appointment was announced last spring,
the followers of Notre Dame football greeted the news
with unanimous feeling of confidence and joy. As a
veteran photographer remarked to Devore during an
impromptu celebration at the coach’s home that evening,
“Well, here we go again, Hughie. Two old horses, back
to the wars.”
ELMER LAYDEN
1934-1940
Won—47, Lost—13, Tied—3
FRANK LEAHY
1941-1943, 1946-1953
Won—87, Lost—11, Tied—9
Hugh Devore came to Notre Dame from Newark,
N.J., in 1930 and has always been close to his alma mater.
He played end on the Irish teams of 1931, 1932, and
co-captained the team in 1933.
His first coaching position was at Notre Dame in 1934,
where he was assistant freshman coach. In 1935 he be-
came end coach at Fordham, where he stayed for three
years. At Providence College in 1938, he was head coach
for four years. In 1942, he was named end coach at
Holy Cross.
A year later, he joined Frank Leahy’s staff as end
coach for the Fighting Irish. Leaving Notre Dame again
o o	o	o
in 1946, Devore became head coach at St. Bonaventure
and New York University successively.
After a brief stint with the Green Bay Packers as an
assistant coach, Hugh was head coach at the University
of Dayton for three seasons and head coach of the Phila-
delphia Eagles for two.
On April 2, 1958 Hugh Devore returned to Notre
Dame as freshman coach under Terry Brennan and re-
mained during the Kuharich regime as the man responsi-
EDWARD McKEEVER
1944
Won—8, Lost—2
14
NOTRE DAME
HUGH DEVORE
1945, 1963-
Won—7, Lost—2, Tied—1
TERRY BRENNAN
1954-1958
Won—32, Lost—18
ble for molding freshman football hopefuls into compe-
tent varsity performers.
Assisting Coach Devore during the 1963 season will
be several holdovers from the Kuharich staff. They are
John Murphy, Brad Lynn, Lou Stephens and Bill Daddio.
Newcomers named by Devore are Gus Cifelli, Dave Hurd
and Jerry Stoltz. Each of these coaches has been work-
ing hard during the spring, summer and this fall to pre-
pare the Fighting Irish for Coach Devore’s major offen-
sive changes which feature two running backs, a flanker
back, a tight end and a wide end.
The results will be known Saturday by Saturday
starting September 28 and ending Thanksgiving Day,
November 28 in New York’s Yankee Stadium where the
Irish meet Syracuse.
As Coach Devore and the Fighting Irish await the
o o
Diamond Jubilee season of 1963, eight particular fans
will be pulling for a successful season. They are, of
course, his wife Madeline, with whom he celebrated his
25 th wedding anniversary last January 15, and his seven
children: Hugh, Jr.: George: Madeline: Marie: Noreen:
Joe; and Tom.
With a cheering section like that, plus the interest
and affection of thousands of Notre Dame alumni and
friends, there seems to be every reason to say 1963 will
be a “great year for the Irish,” and their 21st head coach,
Hugh Devore,
o
JOE KUHARICH
1959-1962
Won—17, Lost—23
The 1963 Fighting Irish coaching staff: (Left to Right) Brad Lynn (Backs); Gus Cifelli (Line); Lou Stephens
(Line); Head Coach Hugh Devore; John Murphy (Backs); Dave Hurd (Centers); Bill Daddio (Ends); and
Jerry Stoltz (Quarterbacks).
ATOMIC ENERGY COMMISSION AND
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME JOIN HANDS
TO PROVIDE $2,200,000 FACILITY
Dr. Glenn T. Seaborg, chairman of the U. S. Atomic
Energy Commission, declared that the federal government
has a responsibility “to aid in the establishment of new
centers of excellence in research and education,” while
speaking at the dedication of a $2.2 million Radiation
Research Building erected by the AEG on the University
of Notre Dame campus on September 1.
Seaborg said basic research “is the foundation upon
which technological and social advances are made. I am
convinced,” he said, “that strong and continued basic
research support in our universities by the federal govern-
ment is a necessity. In my judgment, the most important
problems facing our universities today are those directly
associated with the degree and manner in which our
universities obtain their funds.”
Seaborg was the principal speaker at a convocation
in the Notre Dame Memorial Library auditorium marking
the dedication of the University’s newest research facility.
Earlier, Dr. Frederick Seitz, president of the National
Academy of Sciences and head of the physics department
at the University of Illinois, spoke at the dedication
luncheon at The Morris Inn on the campus. Seaborg
16 NOTRE DAME
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.,
Notre Dame’s president, blesses the
new Radiation Research Building on
the campus during dedication cere-
monies on September 1.
and Seitz both hold honorary doctorates from Notre
Dame.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame
president, conferred honorary Doctor of Science degrees
on two elderly and distinguished scientists at the convo-
cation. Dr. James Franck, of Durham, N. C., a Nobel
Prize winner and professor emeritus of Physics at the
University of Chicago, was cited as “one of the eminent
scientists of our age” whose work has “added significantly
to the growing knowledge of the atom which in a few
decades has transformed our vision of the world. . . .”
The University honored Dr. Samuel Colville Lind, Oak
Ridge, Tenn., as “the father of radiation chemistry . . .
still engaged in research and still writing, long after other
men begin to rest and dream of their past. . . .”
In his convocation address, Seaborg paid tribute to
Notre Dame as “a center of excellence in radiation
chemistry.” Its Radiation Laboratory, an organization
of scientists headed by Prof. Milton Burton, “has un-
questionably played a most significant role in the develop-
ment of radiation chemistry as a mature and established
discipline — not only in profound and lasting scientific
contributions, but in the education and training of per-
sonnel,” he said.
“Notre Dame was the first university in America to
provide formal training in this new chemistry and is
today its principal source of postgraduate trained per-
sonnel in the United States,” the AEC chairman de-
clared. The building we dedicate today, Seaborg said,
“is not a reward to the University of Notre Dame for
its contributions to our (AEC) program. It is, rather,
a sound investment on our part to insure maximum
intellectual growth in the discipline of radiation chem-
istry.”
Prof. Seitz, speaking at the dedication luncheon, said
a new laboratory underscores “a highly significant de-
velopment of our time, namely the fact that science is
now widely recognized as a major underpinning of so-
ciety.” The support of science, he said, has essentially
doubled on the average of every four years or so since
the end of the war. “I think it is safe to say more money
has been devoted to good science in the last fifteen years
than in all the centuries throughout the world prior to
1940,” he said.
The golden age of science has come in our genera-
tion rather than earlier, the Academy president said,
because “the interplay between science and technology
is one involving a certain reverberation time. A certain
minimum number of generations had to pass,” he ex-
plained, “before science and technology could help one
another. . . . We all recognize that technology now turns
to science for many of its most productive ideas whereas
science turns to technology for new tools.”
Notre Dame’s new Radiation Research Building is
a three-story structure of contemporary design. Consisting
largely of chemistry laboratories, the building has a num-
ber of central radiation facilities including a two million
electron volt Van de Graaff generator and cobalt-60
sources rated at 10,000, 5,000 and 2,000 curies.
Devoted to the study of radiation effects on matter,
the Radiation Laboratory numbers faculty members from
the Chemistry, Chemical Engineering, Biology and Metal-
lurgy departments as well as a number of nonteaching
research scientists, postdoctoral research associates and
graduate student teaching assistants.
Dr. G/enn T. Seaborg, chairman of
the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission,
(left), appears with Father Hesburgh
and Dr. Frederick Seitz, (right), presi-
dent of the National Academy of
Sciences and head of the Physics de-
partment at the University of Illinois.
Dr. Seaborg delivers the dedicatory ad-
dress (left) in the Memorial Library
auditorium.
Dean Frederick Rossini of the College of Science (left to right, below)
poses with honorary degree recipients Dr. Samuel Colville Lind and Dr. James
Franck. With them is Radiation Laboratory Director, Dr. Milton Burton.
During the luncheon at the Morris Inn, Dr. Seitz and Dr. Seaborg confer with
Father Hesburgh. In the foreground is Professor A. R. Ubbelohde, president of
the Faraday Society, which met on the Notre Dame campus in conjunction with
the Radiation Research Building dedication.
aMOnai
•4

OTTO NAMED ARTIST-IN-RESIDENCE
Waldemar Otto, a West Berlin sculptor, has been
named artist-in-residence and a faculty member at the
University of Notre Dame.
Otto, whose sculpture can be seen in several Berlin
churches, is the first to be designated artist-in-residence
at Notre Dame since the late Ivan Mestrovic, the cele-
brated Croatian sculptor, who died January 16, 1962.
According to Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., head of
the University department of Art, Otto will teach ad-
vanced classes in sculpture in addition to executing com-
missioned works. Notable features of his work, Father
Lauck said, are “his keenly personal Germanic portraits,
the strong plane modelling in his low reliefs, and the
simplified and forceful forms of his figures in the round.”
Bom in Poland in 1929, Otto studied at the Academy
of Art in Berlin for six years under the tutelage of
Alexander Gonda. During 1954 and 1955 he held a
German government scholarship for advanced study in
Florence. Otto has won several important municipal
prizes in Berlin art exhibitions, and essays about his work
have appeared in Das Munster, the Munich art periodical.
Otto’s sculptural commissions in Berlin include a
heroic bronze figure of “King David with
the Harp” for the Evangelical Student
House in Berlin; a continuous bronze re-
lief depicting Biblical scenes on one wall
of the Heilandskirche, and a large bronze
crucifix for the Phillipus church.
A
S-
Waldemar Otto (above)
is shown in his West
Berlin studio. One of
his most famous works,
"King David with the
Harp," (left) was
completed in 1960 and
now stands outside the
Evangelical Student
House in Berlin.
NOTRE DAME NEWS
(Continued from page 2)
PURDUE BIOLOGIST HERE
Dr. Marvin Barr Seiger, assistant professor of Bio-
logical Sciences at Purdue University, has been appointed
a postdoctoral research associate in the Notre Dame Bi-
ology department for a year. He will undertake immuno-
genetic studies dealing with the physiology of reproduc-
tion of the fruit fly (drosophila) and will be associated
with a drosophila genetics research project directed by
Dr. Harvey A. Bender, assistant professor of Biology.
HYDRODYNAMICS EXPERT TO TEACH
Dr. Klaus Eggers, an authority on hydrodynamics
and a lecturer at the University of Hamburg, has received
a senior foreign scientist fellowship from the National
Science Foundation and will teach at the University of
Notre Dame during the coming year.
BENDER DELIVERS GENETICS PAPER
Dr. Harvey A. Bender, assistant professor of Biology
at Notre Dame and a senior staff member of its Radiation
Laboratory, delivered a paper at the Eleventh Interna-
tional Congress of Genetics at The Hague, Holland, in
September. Bender reported on research conducted by
Dr. M. M. Green, of the University of California depart-
ment of Genetics, and himself on “Phenogenetics of the
Lozenge Loci in Drosophila Melanogaster.” His partici-
pation in the Congress is supported by a travel grant from
the Genetics Society of America.
UNIVERSITY THEATRE PRODUCTIONS FEATURED
The University Theatre presented productions of
“Long Day’s Journey Into Night,” “The Zoo Story” and
a videotape of its campus production of “Hamlet” at the
National Catholic Theatre Conference in August in
Miami, Florida.
S & H GRANT ACCEPTED
The University of Notre Dame has accepted a grant
of $2,000 from the Sperry and Hutchinson Company of
New York to underwrite a series of campus and com-
munity lectures by five foreign ambassadors. The diplo-
mats will visit Notre Dame to discuss the foreign policies
of their countries in relation to the United States and the
United Nations.
FARADAY SOCIETY MEETS ON CAMPUS
The Faraday Society, an organization of physical
chemists with a worldwide membership and headquarters
in London, met for the first time in the United States
at the University of Notre Dame September 2-4.
The scientific meeting was held in conjunction with
the Sept. 1 dedication of the Radiation Research Build-
ing, a $2.2 million facility built on the campus by the
U. S. Atomic Energy Commission.
BARTHOLOMEW IS CHAIRMAN
Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, professor of Government
at the University of Notre Dame, served as chairman of
the public law session at the national meeting of The
American Political Science Association in New York City
in September.
SIX MILONADIS WORKS EXHIBITED
Six works by Konstantin Milonadis, Ukranian-born
sculptor at the University of Notre Dame, were included
in an exhibition at the Ravinia Park Gallery, Highland
Park, Ill., this summer.
Milonadis, whose specialty is metal sculpture, has
fashioned the works out of music wire and stainless wire.
ROSSINI SPEAKS IN SWEDEN
Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, dean of the College of
Science at Notre Dame, delivered two lectures at the
University of Lund in Sweden in July.
He spoke on July 20 at a Symposium on Thermo-
dynamics and Thermochemistry sponsored by the Inter-
national Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry and the
Swedish Chemical Association.
On July 24, he addressed a special industrial session
sponsored by the Swedish Technical Research Council,
the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences and
the Swedish Chemical Industry.
GABRIEL GIVES PARIS TALK
Professor A. L. Gabriel, director of the Mediaeval
Institute at Notre Dame, addressed an international
congress held in Paris in June commemorating the 800th
anniversary of the Cathedral of Notre Dame. He spoke
on “The Early Schools of Notre-Dame de Paris,” and
was the only American scholar to address the Congress.
LIU GETS MENTAL HEALTH GRANT
Dr. William T. Liu, associate professor of Sociology
at Notre Dame, has been awarded a grant by the Na-
tional Institute of Mental Health to study the attitudes
of nursing home personnel and ancillary workers. Asso-
ciated with Dr. Liu, the director of the project, are
Dr. S. P. McCabe, head of the Psychology department
at the University of Portland (Ore.), and Thomas Con-
don, a graduate student in Sociology at Notre Dame.
RESEARCH GRANT TOTALS ANNOUNCED
The University of Notre Dame received grants total-
ing $452,712 for sponsored research and research-related
activities during the month of June, according to Re-
search Administrator Francis X. Bradley.
During the fiscal year ending June 30, Notre Dame
was awarded $2,596,840 in support of 80 projects, Bradley
said. He disclosed that during the same period, the Uni-
versity submitted proposals for 93 research projects call-
ing for $8,243,649 in support.
FISCHER LECTURES IN EAST
Edward A. Fischer, associate professor of Communi-
cation Arts at Notre Dame, gave a series of lectures in
the East this summer including talks at The Lincoln
Center for the Performing Arts in New York City, St.
Paul’s Abbey, Newton, N.J., and Loyola Seminary, Peeks-
kill, N.Y.
NEW BOOK WRITTEN BY FATHER McAVOY
Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., professor of His-
tory and Archivist at Notre Dame, has written a new-
book entitled, The Americanist Heresy in Roman Catholi-
cism, 1895-1900. It has just been published as a paper-
back here by the University of Notre Dame Press.
SEELER IN SEMINAR
Dr. Otto Seeler, professor of Architecture at Notre
Dame, participated in a seminar on “The Teaching of
Architecture” at the Cranbrook Academy of Art, Bloom-
field Hills, Mich., in June. The sessions were sponsored
by the American Institute of Architects and the Asso-
ciation of Collegiate Schools of Architecture and attracted
representatives of 50 architecture schools throughout the
country.
LORDI GETS STUDY GRANT
Dr. Robert J. Lordi, assistant professor of English at
Notre Dame, was awarded a grant-in-aid to carry on his
research at the Harvard University library during August
and September. Lordi, who is a specialist in Renaissance
English drama, is preparing a definitive bibliographical
edition of “The Revenge of Bussy D’Ambois,” a play by
George Chapman. Prof. Lordi’s work is to be published
by the University of Illinois Press as part of the complete
works of Chapman who was a contemporary of William
Shakespeare.
CARBERRY ATTENDS CONFERENCE
Dr. James J. Carberry, associate professor of Chemical
Engineering, attended a three-day Survey Conference on
Catalysis at Hershey, Pa., in August. He was one of ap-
proximately 30 scientists invited to participate in the
sessions which were sponsored by the National Academy
of Sciences.
FATHER BANAS NAMED CLASSICS HEAD
Rev. Leonard N. Banas, C.S.C., has been appointed
head of the Department of Classics at Notre Dame, by
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University presi-
dent.
Father Banas succeeds Rev. Thomas F. Cady, C.S.C.,
department head since 1956, who has received a new
assignment as a member of the Holy Gross Fathers’ Mis-
sion Band.
SUPERIORS’ INSTITUTE DRAWS 2,000
More than 2,000 nuns representing religious com-
munities throughout the United States and abroad at-
tended a six-day Institute for Local Superiors at the
University of Notre Dame in August.
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Theology department
in cooperation with the Conference of Major Superiors
of Women in the United States and the Sister Formation
Conference, the Institute explored the mission and mean-
ing of the Church and particularly the role of the local
superior.
FATHER PELTON GOING TO SPAIN
Rev. Robert S. Pelton, C.S.C., head of the Theology-
department at Notre Dame, has been awarded a fellow-
ship by the government of Spain for postdoctoral research
there.
The Notre Dame theologian will sail for Spain this
month to make a comparative study of Saint John of
the Cross and his notion of mystical prayer and the doc-
trine of Quaker mystical silence. While Father Pelton is
conducting his research abroad, Rev. Albert Schlitzer,
C.S.C., will serve as acting head of the Theology de-
partment.
19
Mr, Bdward J, J. Tracey, Jr
P. 0. Box 436
fetate College, Pa.
-i
'Tv CT itere cf 5grtceare cf tee University d rtclre Barns was offidaHy
cte.rertcd h 157 rtrtro.y seine of tho departments, hter incorporate^
"tore: cmns cf stedy as as 55,
■> Tareren 5 G:y is ids eremat dean cf the CoHegs and Professor
re; recnd J. Srtiirenrert is Cm stsis^uc dea.re
'“’rore ore U-rtrerenrtsre 57 stedrete ennrtJed hi the npper-cfess years,
rert andher rtrt Frerireren irere inducted amir hrtertioa 5 major hr
cns rt the sere; rertreremg crtreTurerts or in the department jf
; 5frerturo, in addition, them am same 200 procreate students enroJIed
;•*.? r-* r3’,,l'-'i'‘l	'"rtc
-X t 5^ V, W -ui. « W >/--'. mi	v \J « t kt
“Tre rtertrt 5 ma Crtrere cf Engi memo is cmnpased of 70 firt-rim
rerenrero.
Tae eeprrtnmats of the CciiegG mrttrte: Architecture. Aeronautical
Er rrorerrere Chcreicrt	Engineering. Etertricd Engineering.
ErmnceriiCi Sciwree. Ftertrerert Enrtneerinrt including options in
rertrefrirt and rtrefear Engrteoring. end leiretergfert Engineering and
72 rents Odence.
TO of the departments are haresd in Cushing Had of Engineering except
ter Arcretecrere, Aeromairticat Engineering and Chemical Engineering.
There is also a separate rtbrertwv building for the Mechanical Engineering
Department which carters nuciear equipment and equipnmni for
design and thennai systems ansiysis.
The Colregs of Engineering arte has a 34 program with some 20 liberal
arts ertiegas wherein a student may obtain both a Bachelor of Arts and
a Escheior cf Serenes degree after five years of study.
Today, Damn’s ability to protrtd® s©h©!arabsps to de^
sowing stodewts Is Omitod by a lack ©f torads tor this
As as? aSymmus ©r frfesrad ©f th® UmTOmty, y©y san swogmse
im^anee ©f matatosniRg ^he high level ©f stoderato ©@mmg
to W&tre Dame, amd making sos3® thais fonaneia! pmbiems do n®>£
eustode deserving studeots from the ©jpportMnity off ©beaming a
degree from Metre Dame.
To assise these desewing yoong men, memorial s©h©Sarehips
are aval fable through the Metre Dame Foundation at remarkably
©©st.
si^iSS&^S ^©^eiSson ^aS&sis& <5®n^&Ss
^©KWiLMKBixintF ©c=aan[Eicrt]/2iA
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION
P. O. BOX 555
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA