IT came upott the niihnighl clear,
thatjlonoiis sotig of old,
‘Jronx angels lending uoarthe earth,
to touch their harps ofgohl:
‘'Peace on the earth^good will lo mGn-
5roiy Iwavons alhgracious tying
the worth iq, solemn stillness lay,
to Ijcar Ilie angels sing.
Architectural Students
Study Urban Program of
Redevelopment in New
Undergraduate Course
By Francesco Montana
<4
The last several decades have witnessed an unparal-
leled growth in our urban areas. Much of this growth,
however, has been unplanned and the consequences are
seen everywhere. Blighted conditions in the centers of
our communities are turning large areas into slums. Sur-
rounding the cities are the rapidly urbanizing fringe areas
whose development is taking place in a haphazard and
unplanned fashion. One of the major tasks facing our
local government today is the intelligent solution of these
metropolitan problems.
In addition to the need for intelligent long range
planning for future development of our urban areas is
the great and pressing need for redevelopment and re-
habilitation of many areas of our cities. Programs of ur-
ban renewal are being undertaken by more cities through-
out the nation. These communities know that onlv
through intelligent programs of planning and urban re-
newal will they be able to grow and prosper.
Of the many problems standing in the way of intelli-
2
NOTRE DAME
. . . . promoting educational leadership
gent planning and rebuilding programs for American
communities none is more acute or urgent than the lack
of an adequate number of trained planning personnel to
carry forward these programs.
The University of Notre Dame true to its long tradi-
tion of leadership in many important areas of education
has instituted a program in City Planning. This program
initially will be on the undergraduate level and will be
primarily for architectural students. The program will
be under the direction of the Department of Architecture.
The course of instruction in City Planning at Notre Dame
u nt mu ii ii n 11111111 ii mi i in tut nut.min.mu.mmimmmmmmmmmmmmm
The author is head of Notre Dame’s Department of
Architecture and has studied at the Ecole des Beaux
Arts in Paris. He received a bachelor’s degree from New
York University.
In 1936 he received a three-year scholarship to study
in France and was awarded academic honors while there.
Mr. Montana has been cited for various designs, one
being that of an air base on famed Midway Island in the
Pacific. He is a member of professional organizations in-
cluding the American Institute of Architects and the
Beaux-Arts Institute of Design. Mr. Montana was named
head of the Architecture Department in 1950.
is designed to equip the architectural graduate with a
clear understanding of the problems and practices of city
planning and the important role the architect can play
in planning and rebuilding urban America.
1	o	o
Those students who wish to continue their studies in
planning may go to other universities for graduate work.
The undergraduate option will prove an asset to con-
tinued study.
The architectural students who elect the Citv Plan-
ning program will be continually reminded that city
planning is followed by building and that the planner
must visualize his plan in terms of constructed buildings.
In other words, plans must be conceived in three dimen-
sions if the plan is to have significance and be realized.
City Planning is one of the most human of the sci-
ences and arts and touches life at many points. The
problems involved in the development of land are com-
plex and varied.
No one man can contain within himself all of the
varied knowledge and master all of the arts and sciences
that are necessary for intelligent city planning.
City Planning must be a collaborative undertaking be-
tween men of different training and experience. In such
collaboration the architect contributes his imagination, his
knowledge of beauty, of proportion and the living and
working needs of people.
(Left to right)—Professor T. B. Brademas and Professor Montana, head of Architecture Department, observe
“city planning model.”
in important areas of community life.
3

Student demonstrates City Planning sketches
to South Bend businessmen.
A review of the courses offered by the program in
City Planning will give a clear indication that the stu-
dents in the program will have a fine grounding in the
profession of City Planning.
In addition to all of the required courses necessary
for his training in architecture the student who elects the
City Planning option will take the following courses:
Introduction to City Planning — a study of the basic
concepts, problems, and practices of community planning
and a historical review of urban development.
Public Administration — an introductory survey of
the principles and processes involved in the execution of
public pokey with emphasis upon local government.
American City Government — a detailed study of the
organization and functions of municipal government in
the United States.
Real Estate Law — a study of the law of real estate
and its scope, including an analysis of the real estate
business in its various phases. A general survey of hous-
ing, home ownership, sub-dividing, appraising and man-
asrement of real estate are discussed.
City Planning Design — the problems of physical de-
velopment of the urban area will be studied and design
solutions proposed. Problems will include the design of
a civic center, shopping center, and other public facilities.
Design solutions for the redevelopment and conservation
of slum and blighted areas in the city will be prepared.
Economic Institutions — an appreciation of the con-
cepts and analytical tools necessary to understand the
function of the market mechanism in guiding economic
activity.
The Community — a study of the local community,
the city, the small town, the rural neighborhood.
Municipal Engineering — the engineering aspects
NOTRE DAME	VOL. 11, NO. 4, WINTER, 1958
Published quarterly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Entered as second class matter May 10, 1928, at Post Office at Notre Dame,
Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.
of city and community planning. City finances and bud-
gets; traffic requirements; city sanitation; functional re-
creational facilities; the work of the city engineer and city
manager.
Housing and Urban Renewal — discussion of public
and private housing supply and market, design,
finance and legislation. Housing production, redevelop-
ment and community conservation.
These courses of instruction in conjunction with the
program in architecture will prepare the student to make
a substantial contribution toward the planning of the
community.
It should be noted that several of the basic planning
courses are opened to upperclassmen from other colleges
and departments in the University. Often students of so-
ciology, economics, law, engineering, and public admin-
istration find an important and challenging profession in
the field of City Planning.
The Department of Architecture’s planning program
has already proved of great value to the local communi-
ties, by encouraging the development of intelligent plan-
ning. A group of the students prepared a plan for the
rebuilding of the South Bend central business area which
drew considerable discussion from local business and civic
leaders. The Department of Architecture in conjunction
with the Indiana Society of Architects sponsored a series
of lectures on city planning, delivered by professional
planners from Detroit, Chicago and Indianapolis. These
lectures were open to the public and were well attended
by many interested citizens from the South Bend-Misha-
waka area.
As the program in City Planning at Notre Dame con-
tinues to develop and grow it will prove of increasing
value to planning in the local area.
The Department of Architecture is particularly for-
tunate in that several of its staff members have special
training in the field of City Planning. In organizing the
City Planning program we have realized the need for
practicing professional planners to aid in the instructing
for the new program. The Department has been indeed
fortunate in having been able to secure the services of
Mr. T. B. Brademas, formerly Senior City Planner on the
City of Detroit Planning Staff. He received a Bachelor
of Architecture degree from the University of Illinois and
a Masters in City Planning from the University of Michi-
gan. Mr. Brademas is a member of the American Insti-
tute of Planners and currently serves as head of City
Planning Associates in Mishawaka, Indiana. In this man-
ner the students not only receive instruction from trained
and experienced city planners but are able to get the
benefit of current solutions to many actual city planning
problems as developed by practicing professionals.
The program in City Planning at Notre Dame will be
altered and added to, as experience indicates. The Uni-
versity of Notre Dame by the inauguration of a program
in City Planning is demonstrating once again the desire
of the University to promote educational leadership in
important areas of community life.
4 NOTRE DAME
. . . planning and rebuilding urban America.

Few can question the material growth of America or
of Notre Dame. But the physical growth of a person
or of a human institution is no guarantee of innei’ human
growth, of mature spiritual perfection, of the hind of
fulfillment that alone is important in assessing the true
value of a country, a person, or an institution. Physical
growth can indeed become a kind of seduction, wherein
we assume, from outward appearance, the existence of
inner vitality and equal accomplishment in the line of
mature interior excellence.
However, the two perfections, physical and spiritual,
do not necessarily go together. Nor are they achieved by
the same effort, or the same means. Physical growth in
an institution is mainly a matter of money, masonry,
and mortar. Spiritual perfection in its essence needs
none of these. Rather, it begins with the human under-
standing of an ideal, the consecration of human minds
and hearts to a task most worthy of man, but also most
difficult, because each newly conquered peak of perfec-
tion presents a newer and higher prominence behind it,
yet to be climbed. It is much easier to achieve physical
growth, as a person or as an institution, and then to
call it a day. But this mediocre satisfaction never makes
for a great person, or a great institution, because spirit
alone vivifies matter and endows it with higher dignity
and value.
Some thoughtful people have questioned whether or
not the physical growth of America today has been
matched by a corresponding development of our spiritual
wisdom and moral character. The same question might
be asked of Notre Dame, not in a carping spirit of criti-
cism, but in a reflective mood of self-analysis linked to
the sincere desire for the greatest possible perfection in
the high task committed to us. It is certainly no less
true of universities, than of men, that the unexamined
life is not worth living;.
The inner growth of a university depends in large
measure upon the excellence of its faculty. This is much
more, however, than the sum total of their individual
talents, because a university is a community of scholars
working together, not a mere collection of individually
good minds, haphazardly and geographically assembled
in one place. Now collaborative human effort in a uni-
versity requires some unity of spirit and ideal, some
human understanding and sharing of the great dignity
of the endeavor. In the nature of the world we live in,
with its often superficial judgments and attitudes, some
members of the university community will often receive
a larger measure of praise and plaudits for accomplish-
ments that are, in reality, the work of all. Yet, at the
heart of the endeavor and in the eyes of God, each
member must know that he belongs and is important
and vital to the task.
Among other things, the work of Notre Dame high-
lights one of the great opportunities of the Church
today: that of priests and laymen joined together in a
common endeavor and committed to a higher wisdom
while working effectively for all the perfection that is
possible in the things of time. And there is an undefin-
able spirit of devotion and consecration here that alone
can explain what has already been accomplished at Notre
Dame and the great things that we yet aspire to achieve.

NOTRE DAME ACHIEVES
IMPRESSIVE RECORD IN
NATIONAL PROGRAM
The author has been teaching English at the Uni-
versity since 1933. He is also managing editor of the
Review of Politics, published at Notre Dame.
Professor O’Malley was graduated from Notre Dame
in 1932 and was awarded the Master of Arts degree the
following year.
Well known for his wide literary background and
masterful classroom technique, Professor O’Malley’s class-
es in literature and creative writing are among the most
popular offered by the English department. He is one of
three committee members who interview Notre Dame
students seeking national fellowships.
By Frank O’Malley
Notre Dame has had — during the past six years — a
remarkable number of winners in the competition for the
national fellowships which carry immense prestige. Last
school year— 1957-58 — the campus was startled by the
signal success of Notre Dame seniors in the awards of
the Woodrow Wilson Foundation. Eighteen young men,
from the Colleges of Arts and Letters, and Science, were
elected to a fellowship that regularly encourages the most
promising students to do graduate work towards college
teaching and university scholarship. In the list of awards,
Notre Dame ranked fifth in the nation, preceded only by
Columbia, Harvard, Cornell and Princeton. Across the
country a thousand fellowships were given — an increase
18
1957-58
*WOODROW WILSON
FELLOWSHIPS
DANFORTH
FELLOWSHIPS
1955-58
William B. Griffith, Smithfield,
Texas, won three major fellowships
for graduate study in competition
with thousands of outstanding college
seniors throughout the country be-
fore he graduated in June, 1958. He
received a Fulbright grant, a Wood-
row Wilson National Fellowship, and
a Danforth Fellowship.
Griffith is no stranger to compe-
tition, academic or athletic. While
earning a four-year average of
94.52% in Notre Dame’s General
Program of Liberal Education, he
was a member of N. D.’s national
championship varsity cross-country
team.
* NOT RE DAME RANKS
over past years made possible by the new and munificent
grant of $25,000,000 from the Ford Foundation. How-
ever, in the previous five years — with very limited allot-
ments — Notre Dame seniors won twelve of these most
coveted awards.
Impressive, too, is Notre Dame’s achievement in the
Fulbright Scholarship competition. More than seventeen
candidates since 1952 have been successful and have had
the chance to study and travel all over the world. Like-
wise, during the past three years, seven Arts and Letters
6 NOTRE DAME
This success has coincided with the development

FULBRIGHT
SCHOLARSHIPS
RHODES
SCHOLARSHIPS
Eighteen N. D. seniors were awarded Woodrow Wilson
Fellowships last June for graduate study
during the current school year.
is similar to that of the Danforth: the assistance of stu-
dents “with serious interest in the religion of their choice
to enter the academic profession at the college or uni-
versity level.” The Marshall Scholarship sustains Ameri-
can graduate students at British universities “as an ex-
pression of gratitude for the program of European recov-
ery.” Three Arts and Letters seniors have lately won the
Root-Tilden Scholarship for legal studies, sponsored by
New York University. And the administration and fa-
culty have been glad to note our recent successes in the
National Science Foundation Fellowship competition — a
program of fellowships designed for “study in the sciences
as one means of promoting the progress of science.”
Altogether the record of the past six years has been
remarkable. Most of these national opportunities did not,
of course, exist until the early 1950’s. But qualified Notre
Dame students, under careful faculty encouragement and
guidance, have anxiously and successfully sought and will
brilliantly continue to seek these opportunities — even
though, in some instances, they must fairly and inevitably
compete with one another. It should also be noted that
this success has coincided with the development and im-
plementation of the new plan of studies in the College of
Arts and Letters and with the establishment of the A. B.
Faculty Committee on Academic Progress, working with
the Dean to identify superior students and to maintain
their intellectual advancement through various means:
for instance, honors sections for entering freshmen, under-
graduate entrance into graduate courses, admission to ma-
jors in the sophomore year with the prospect for some of
graduation in three years and for others of freedom from
class requirements in the senior year so that they may
undertake a really substantial critical, creative, historical,
philosophical, mathematical or scientific project and bring
it to truly great completion.
Finally, Notre Dame’s constant concern about aca-
demic excellence has received further justification in the
fact that twenty-six winners — a high proportion for
Catholic colleges—of the National Merit Scholarship have
this year entered our freshman class.
Sth IN THE NATION!
seniors have won the Danforth Foundation Fellowship —
particularly devoted to the support of the best young
minds concerned about moral and religious values in col-
o
lege teaching and counseling. Few schools in the nation
can equal this record.
In addition, Notre Dame has sent to Oxford these
4	past three years two Rhodes scholars and has provided
।	victorious applicants for the Kent, the Marshall (Great
Britain), the Root-Tilden (law) and the National Foun-
dation Fellowships. The purpose of the Kent Fellowship
Donald Sniegowski, Toledo, Ohio,
received a degree from Notre Dame
in 1956 and was awarded a Rhodes
Scholarship at Oxford University,
England. He played three years of
varsity baseball for the Fighting
Irish and led the team in batting
with an average of .372. Don was
editor of the Dome, and was selected
on the Dean’s Honor List each se-
mester that he was at Notre Dame.
He majored in English and was one of
32 college students chosen from Ameri-
can institutions of higher learning to
receive Rhodes Scholarships in 1956.
and implementation of the new plan of studies.
ford fociahon
contributes
’1.1:1.111)0.
Law School Program
The Notre Dame School of Law.
Natural Law Institute Will Benefit from Gift
A grant of $153,000 has been given by the Ford Foun-
dation for the support of the Notre Dame Law School’s
program in legal philosophy. According to Dean Joseph
O’Meara, Jr., the new fund will help to underwrite re-
search and other activities of the Natural Law Institute.
The Notre Dame grant was among awards totalling
$2,950,000 announced recently by officials of the Ford
Foundation in New York City.
Following a spectacular decision in 1956 by the Ford
Foundation to increase teacher salaries in the nation’s
privately supported universities, Notre Dame was named
recipient of a munificent $3,074,000 gift. An ‘accom-
plishment grant’ of $1,177,000 was included in the total
amount for Notre Dame’s leadership in the “betterment
of faculty salaries.” Exclusive of the ‘accomplishment
grant,’ it was specified by the Ford Foundation that the
remaining portion of the award would be invested over a
ten-year period and only the interest used to augment
faculty wages.
The prior Ford Foundation contribution to Notre Dame
was the largest single gift ever received by the University
and the current donation likewise is one of the largest
gifts on record for the Notre Dame Law School. In 1953
the University inaugurated an intensive Faculty Devel-
opment Program and appeals for its support have been
made to alumni, corporations, foundations and non-
alumni friends. It is also a major part of the new 1958-
1967 $66.6 million program which highlights $27,000,000
for endowment to increase faculty salaries.
The Natural Law Institute, which will directly benefit
from the Ford Foundation’s $153,000 grant, was started
at Notre Dame in 1947 during the period that Clarence
W. Manion was Dean of the Law School. Initially it
was sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of New
York City and later by generous benefactions from Alvin
A. Gould, Cincinnati, O. Mr. Gould, in addition to un-
derwriting the Institute’s annual programs, also donated
a new Natural Law Library. It is known as the Alvin A.
Gould Collection and is believed to be the only one of its
kind in the world. The Gould Collection consists of a
representative group of books and materials on the Nat-
ural Law and it is accessible to scholars and students of
the Natural Law.
Participants in Natural Law Institutes have included
such distinguished persons as Carlos P. Romulo, diplomat;
nationally-known columnist George P. Sokolsky; the
Honorable Thomas J. Brogan, former Chief Justice of
the Supreme Court of New Jersey; Dr. Felix Morley,
Pulitzer prize winner and former editor of the Washing-
ton Post; the Honorable Richard O’Sullivan, former
King’s Counsel of Great Britain; Dr. Edward S. Corwin,
noted authority on the Constitution and the Supreme
Court; and Dr. Stephen Kutta er, internationally known
for his research in mediaeval canonical law at the Vatican.
The Natural Law Forum, an annual scholarly publi-
cation devoted to the natural law and to the philosophy
of law, made its first appearance at Notre Dame in 1956.
In addition to scholarly articles, notes and book reviews,
the Forum features reports from all over the world con-
cerning natural law developments. Edited by Professor
Anton-Hermann Chroust, and assisted by a staff of
associate editors and Professor Andrew T. Smithberger
as Managing-Editor, the Forum has published articles
by many well-known and competent persons.
History and literature for twenty-five hundred years
demonstrate the universality and vitality of the appeal to
Natural Law. In the United States, Natural Law became
a part of the authentic fabric of American Constitution-
alism when Thomas Jefferson wove Natural Law prin-
ciples into the Declaration of Independence. The
Natural Law is as old as man himself and the world’s
greatest thinkers have referred to it as the basic law of
human rights.
The Natural Law has been an integral segment of
the Law School curriculum since the first legal education
courses were established in 1869. The generosity of the
Ford Foundation’s $153,000 grant will assist in the con-
tinuance of important Natural Law research and studies
on the Notre Dame campus.
8
NOTRE DAME
Where Do
Great Ideas Come From?
From its beginnings this nation has been
guided by great ideas.
The men who hammered out the Constitution
and the Bill of Rights were thinkers—men of
vision—the best educated men of their day.
And every major advance in our civilization
since that time has come from minds equipped
by education to create great ideas and put
them into action.
So, at the very core of our progress is the
college classroom. It is there that the imagina-
tion of young men and women gains the in-
tellectual discipline that turns it to useful
thinking. It is there that the great ideas of
the future will be born.
That is why the present tasks of our colleges
and universities are of vital concern to every
American. These institutions are doing their
utmost to raise their teaching standards, to
meet the steadily rising pressure for enroll-
ment, and provide the healthy educational
climate in which great ideas may flourish.
They need the help of all who love freedom, all
who hope for continued progress in science,
in statesmanship, in the better things of life.
And they need it now!
If you want to know what the college crisis
means to you, write for a free
booklet to: HIGHER EDUCA-
TION, Box 36, Times Square
Station, New York 36, N.Y.
Sponsored as a public service, in cooperation with the Council for Financial Aid to Education, by
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION
1958 • NEW PROGRAM OF $66,600,000 • 1967
9

i
4
’ 4
It may be within the next ten years that scientists
will introduce “heart attack pills’' to the public. Accord-
ing to Dr. Charles E. Brambel, head of a Notre Dame
research team investigating the clotting action of blood,
these pills will reduce the chances of heart failure. Dr.
Dr. Brambel and laboratory assistant use rats
for experimenting in heart disease drugs.


fejWf <
Extensive Laboratory
Experiments Are Being
Conducted with Anti-coagulant
Drugs by Dr. Charles Brambel


-i	Brambel has been working with anti-coagulant drugs
o	o	o
since 1941 and during the past eight years his work has
been supported by grants from the U. S. Army and the
National Institutes of Health.
Drugs which inhibit the clotting; action of the blood
o	o
have been used for several years in patients who have
undergone major surgery and to prevent recurrence of
attacks in persons who have suffered from heart ailments.
But Dr. Brambel predicts that in the next decade anti-
coagulants also will be used extensively as a preventive
measure, to remove one cause of heart attacks. The use
of anti-coagulants will depend on the development of a
safer drug than is now available and Dr. Brambel is ex-
perimenting with this problem at Notre Dame.
Last year the Public Health Service conducted an ex-
tensive survey on the effectiveness of anti-blood clotting
drugs in preventing strokes. It is estimated that 172,000
people die each year because of strokes and it is thought
that almost one million persons are attacked annually by
the disease.
It is only recently that science has devised a system
to combat on a large scale the dread blood clots that
bring sudden death and suffering to so many. By daily
medical routine the patient’s blood is conditioned against
formation of the little coagula that drift through the
veins, eventually to clog the heart, lungs or brain. It is
a control method similar to that applied to diabetics
with regular doses of insulin.
Varied use has been made of a clot-preventive drug
known as dicumarol—a comparatively new drug derived
from the substance which gives new-mown hay its pleasant
odor.
Dicumarol does not dissolve clots already formed.
But it does prevent their growth, thus enabling the patient
to survive while they are reabsorbed into the blood stream.
Normally a clot in the heart of a patient who has
survived the attack is reabsorbed into the blood stream
in about ten days. In most cases it adheres to the inner
walls of the heart and the little tail of the clot flutters in
the blood current. As the clot’s growth is stopped by
dicumarol it begins to disintegrate when a tiny hole is
formed in its mass. Medical records show that persons
between 40 and 60 are more likely to have clots than
those younger or older.
“Clots are sticky things,” said Dr. Brambel, “and
usually they adhere, but not always. The floating ones
are a constant menace of death and suffering.”
The danger in dicumarol, as cited by Dr. Brambel, is
hemorrhage. In large, unregulated doses it might cause
bleeding through the eyes, ears, nose, mouth and other
body cavities. It was through its hemorrhage-producing
properties that the drug was discovered. Back in 1933
Dr. Karl Paul Link, of the University of Wisconsin de-
partment of agriculture, and other scientists noted that
cattle were bleeding to death on the range with no ap-
parent cause. Cattle which had scratched themselves on
barbed wire bled uncontrollably.
Dr. Link and his associates discovered that cattle
feeding upon cut sweet clover which had mildewed (or
spoiled) in the process of becoming hay were the ones
which had suffered hemorrhage. In many cases a switch
to a diet of alfalfa stopped the bleeding. That was the
10 NOTRE DAME
Contributions are sought totaling
signal for the university’s agricultural chemists to investi-
gate the properties of sweet clover, both spoiled and fresh.
They found by experiments with animals that the juice
of the spoiled sweet clover was a powerful anti-clotting
agent. It had deprived the blood of its natural safety
characteristic—its ability to clot, and so halt flow after a
certain time. Chemists identified the substance as a
derivative of the juices which give fragrance to freshly cut
hay and which are sometimes used in perfumes.
Further experiments showed that this substance affect-
ed human blood as it did that of animals. The next
logical step was to use the chemical, now called dicumarol,
Graduate student preparing diet that is Vitamin K “free.”
(Vitamin K is related to blood-clotting).
in a careful manner in cases where coagulating blood was
a menace to life or health. Dr. Brambel has found that
its effects are not cumulative. In other words, controlled
dosage over a long period does not build up a tendency
to bleed. Dr. Brambel has found also that it does not
change the chemical makeup of the blood. He and other
scientists believe that dicumarol has its effect through the
functions of the liver, though they are not yet able to
prove the theory.
Usually dicumarol is given about two days after a
major operation. But in a very few cases it has been
given before operations. With this prophylactic (pre-
ventive) treatment, no surgical patients died of clots after
their operations. These patients showed signs of clots
only at the rate of three in 3,000. In contrast, those
surgical patients who had not received dicumarol had
clots at the rate of three per 1,000; and one and four
tenths patients per 1,000 who had not received dicumarol
died of clots.
Dr. Brambel’s work has other ramifications. Dicuma-
rol is being used also to prevent or ameliorate blood clots
in the eye which sometimes impair vision, or cause its
loss. In such treatments the drug is used in combination
with vitamin P, to the layman one of the more obscure
vitamins.
When microscopically small clots lodge in the tiny
capillaries (veins) of the retina they become gorged with
sludge-like blood, grow red, inflamed. Dicumarol pre-
vents further clotting, while vitamin P tones up and
strengthens the capillaries and tends to reduce the clots
already formed.
Vitamin P, which in nature is abundantly present in
grapes and lemon juice, tones up capillaries not only in
the eye but all over the body. These tiny veins, as in the
eye, lie just beneath the body’s other surfaces. When a
person is bruised the tiny blood vessels are ruptured and
blood spreads into the tissues, producing “black and blue”
spots. The physician regards them as minor hemor-
rhages. When a person bruises too easily it can mean
that he has a vitamin P deficiency.
Laboratory assistant removing section of bone
marrow for microscopic examination.
$11,000,000 for research at Notre Dame.
11
Dr. Brambel in front of charts indicating graphic distribution	Studying blood cells, through microscope, which are responsible
of data, with calculating machine in foreground.	for blood clotting (known as “blood platelets).”
Thus vitamin P, because of its peculiar function, is an
important adjunct of Dr. Brambel’s work. Another,
equally important, is vitamin K, also little known to lay-
men. It is a powerful clotting agent—the direct opposite
of dicumarol. Lettuce is one of its sources. Vitamin K,
of course, is used when necessary to stop excessive bleed-
ing.
The experimentation at Notre Dame is a continuation
of work which Dr. Brambel began in the early 1940’s.
Meanwhile, Dr. Brambel is studying the effects of a
less bizarre but very effective anti-coagulant—heparin.
In addition to tests of this drug in various amounts and
combinations, the Notre Dame biologist is seeking to
determine just what causes the blood to thicken and clot.
In his research with the drug so far—Dr. Brambel
checks the effect of heparin by injecting it in a rat, cutting
off the rat’s tail, and measuring the amount of blood lost
—the scientist and his co-workers have come up with dis-
coveries which form the basis of 17 published papers.
The coumarin anti-coagulants, a type of drug different
from heparin are the most commonly used today. It is
a coumarin compound that was prescribed for President
Eisenhower to reduce the chances of a second heart attack.
Dr. Brambel explains that a common form of heart
attack results from clots forming in the blood vessels shut-
ting off the flow of blood to the heart. By reducing the
tendency of the blood to coagulate, doctors can cut down
the number of clots which threaten the heart or brain and
thus reduce the number of heart attacks and strokes.
The biologist, who conducted an anti-coagulant clinic
in a Baltimore, Md., hospital for 12 years, adds that use
of the anti-coagulants will not result in hemmorrhage if
they are properly controlled. Dr. Brambel said that the
tendency of the blood to clot can be cut by as much as
50 percent without ill effects. This means that the drugs
can reduce the formation of abnormal clots which might
cause heart attacks and yet permit clots to form on
wounds.
Dr. Brambel was educated at Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity, Baltimore, receiving his doctorate there in 1931. He
was an instructor at Johns Hopkins from 1932 to 1942
and during the same period was a consulting clinical bio-
chemist at Mercy Hospital. He became assistant director
of the hospital’s clinical laboratory and training school for
medical technology in 1936 and director of its anticoagu-
lant clinic in 1943. He also taught at the University of
Maryland Medical School.
A frequent contributor to professional journals, Dr.
Brambel is a member of the American Chemical Society,
the American Society of Zoologists, the Baltimore Medical
Society, the Maryland Association of Pathologists and the
International Society of Hematologists.
*****	• t| |ps	* * * he-edity they
Anueh. complicated P.iatw atel Measure!	Druhree t»meS f the young	this aC	(they said . professor of
S3	*	\™e.Srements 10	physral’Stiea, When you	vessds oilAbeI(1eCn. SWW
^at
...ns have h'6" iLh with <he|,„i, . night s sleep, w [orl class t001" when alien .flow which p ^ng to ONE t icatl
......... -
and	“ 8 —
heart
who’ll
12 NOTRE DAME
Ten-year program for $66,600,000 will
Father O’Brien, widely-traveled author and lecturer,
came to Notre Dame in 1940 after serving as Chaplain
of Catholic students at the University of Illinois for
twenty-three years. While at Illinois, he also founded and
directed the Newman Foundation.
He is a graduate of Viator College and received a
doctorate from the University of Illinois in 1920. He has
studied at Catholic University of America, the University
of Chicago, National University of Mexico and at Oxford
University in England.
Father O’Brien heads a commission of the National
Conference of Christians and Jews. He is a prolific author
and an outstanding public speaker. The article consists
of extracts reprinted from Columbia magazine.
By Kev. John A. O’Brien, Ph.D.
Dr. Carlton J. H. Hayes
is an oustanding historian
and teacher. He formerly
was U. S. Ambassador to
Spain and is a convert to
Catholicism.
Notre Dame Lecturer Served
With Distinction as Co-Chairman
of NCCJ for Fifteen Years
In 1928, Governor Alfred E. Smith was nominated
by the Democratic party for the Presidency. The first
Catholic to be thus chosen by a major party, his candi-
dacy immediately brought into the open the deep-seated
suspicions and subterranean fears of many non-Catholics
as to the dire things which would happen to our country,
particularly its independence and freedom, if a “Roman-
ist” were elected. The Pope would take over the control
of the country, dictating the policies, while Smith would
be but a mere stooge.
Such was the refrain echoed not only in scurrilous
leaflets, anonymous letters and behind-the-hand whispers
but also in the publications of Churches, secret organiza-
tions and the Anti-Saloon League under the direction of
Methodist Bishop James H. Cannon, Jr. Teeming with
cartoons and caricatures heaping ridicule and abuse upon
the Pope, bishops, priests and nuns, these publications
spearheaded a veritable campaign of hate against the
Catholic Church and its members.
Mushrooming overnight into enormous size, the Ku
Klux Klan bestrode the land like a hooded giant, whip-
ping and tarring its victims and even murdering some.
With 5,000,000 members paying $10 apiece for a 50 cent
sheet, the hooded organization established a reign of ter-
ror in thousands of communities. Government officials
quailed in their boots before the threat of the grand
kleagle, supinely allowing his minions to replace the forces
of law and order and to dominate county and state ad-
ministrations.
It was a shocking display of ignorance, credulity, ar-
rogance, hatred and violence, unparalleled on a national
scale in the history of our country. It afforded a capital
illustration of the truth of Goethe’s observation, “Nothing
is so terrible as ignorance with spurs on.”
Like all decent people, the overwhelming majority of
Protestants were ashamed and distressed. They saw in the
smoking ruins and the piled-up debris of the flaming
campaign, with its aftermath of new rancors and fresh
hatreds, the dynamite which might wreck our nation.
Thoughtful ones among them decided to do something
about it.
Under the initiative of Rev. S. Parkes Cadman, New-
ton D. Baker and Justice Charles Evans Hughes a series
of meetings was arranged. Roger Williams Straus and
Arthur Sulzberger were among the Jewish representatives,
(continued on page 18)
provide financial aid needed by N.D.
Left to right: Dean Goglia, Prof. Strand-
hagen, Prof. Peach and Prof. Kobayashi.
The twentieth century has a characteristic which is
unique in history: the headlong progress of scientific
knowledge. As a result of continuous advances in the
field of science, modern engineering also is rapidly
changing its character. New problems appear in the form
of complex systems which encompass integrated resources
of many branches of technology—mechanical, electrical,
hydraulic, optical, chemical, metallurgical, and many
more. In the solution of the complex engineering systems
of the modem era, it is no longer possible to deal with
them part by part; rather each system must be analyzed
as a unitary whole. A group has always been necessary
to carry out the latter function. In the last decade, how-
ever, because of the complexity of engineering systems
with their many interacting components, because of the
need for operating over a wider range of rapidly chang-
ing situations, and because of the greater dependence of
engineering systems on recently discovered scientific
phenomena the need for integrating the whole has taken
on added importance.
So based on this thought, an undergraduate pro-
gram in engineering science was inaugurated in Notre
Dame’s College of Engineering at the beginning of the
current school year. It was also disclosed that the de-
partment of engineering mechanics, exclusively a graduate
unit until now, has been renamed the department of
engineering science and will administer the new program
of studies. Dr. Adolph G. Strandhagen continues as head
of the newly designated department.
The development of engineering education in the
United States parallels the development of the country
itself. In the days when there was still a “western
frontier,” the engineer’s work consisted largely of the
design and construction of roads, bridges, railroads, dams,
jetties, the improvement of mechanical tools and power
generators, etc., all of which required a minimum amount
of theoretical knowledge but a large amount of practical
knowledge. The curricula of the then existing engineering
schools reflected these requirements in that much time
Courses for Undergraduates
Will Include Two-semester
Seminar in the Humanities
was devoted to the “Engineering Art” and relatively little
time to “the Engineering Science.”
As the frontier disappeared as a result of the west-
ward migration of the population and the development
of rapid and reliable means of transportation and com-
munication, the engineer became less and less a con-
struction superintendent and more and more originator,
designer, analyst and synthesist applying the new discov-
eries of the physical sciences to practical use. Engineering
education adapted itself readily and quickly to the new
conditions.
In engineering education, curricula are being sub-
jected to searching analyses with a view to adapting them
to modem needs. In the midst of the revision of existing
curricula the outstanding, most direct, and most hopeful
sign of true progress is the rapid recognition of a new con-
cept: engineering science, i.e., the advancement of engi-
neering by organizing the principles involved in manifold
engineering developments and research into a discipline
which exhibits the similarities between different areas of
14 NOTRE DAME
“. . '. to produce a flexible student who
Prof. Strandhagen and Engineering faculty members, including (L. to R.):
Professors Kalman, Kobayashi, Schubmehl, Lee, Peach and Chang.
engineering, emphasizing the power of fundamental con-
cepts, and which integrates the components into a com-
plete engineering system. As a result, engineering science
curricula have been instituted towards the education of
personnel capable of coordinating and solving entirely new
complex engineering systems. For such work the engineer
must have a thorough grounding in pure science (math-
ematics, physics, chemistry), and all the basic principles
of engineering science (mechanics, thermodynamics, heat
and mass transfer, electricity and electronics, fluid
mechanics, cybernetics).
Notre Dame’s new engineering science program, ac-
cording to Strandhagen, will be geared “to produce a
flexible student, one who can adapt himself to the rapidly
changing technology of modem times. It will provide
the student with a broad foundation, a preparation, a
potential for entering and advancing in new and as yet
undeveloped fields of engineering, not as a specialist in
any isolated portion, but as one who can grasp, visualize
and coordinate the whole.”
Students successfully completing the engineering
science program will be equipped for competent partici-
pation in research and development work, Strandhagen
said. They will also be qualified, he said, for graduate
work in engineering science or in one of the specialized
engineering areas. He stressed that the student will re-
quire advanced study and considerable experience be-
fore he can assume supervisory responsibility for complex
engineering systems.
The four-year engineering science program will con-
sist of a total of 151 semester hours of class work, Strand-
hagen said. Although the emphasis will be on a general
and fundamental approach, there will be an opportunity
for a limited degree of specialization in particular areas
through approved courses in the professional departments.
Engineering science majors will spend about one-
fifth of their classroom hours in liberal arts courses in-
cluding English, philosophy, religion, social science and
a two-semester seminar in the humanities in their senior
year. Another component of the engineering science
curriculum will be the natural sciences represented by
approximately 56 semester hours of mathematics, physics
and chemistry courses. The program also includes a series
of basic engineering courses in the freshman and sopho-
more years and provides for two elective courses in
specialized fields such as mechanical, electrical, chemical,
civil or aeronautical engineering in the junior and senior
years.
Specific engineering science courses make up nearly
one-fourth of the new undergraduate program. Included
are Statics, Dynamics, Strength of Materials, Intermediate
Analytical Mechanics, Thermodynamics, Fluid Mechan-
ics, Transfer and Rate Processes, Dynamical Systems,
Engineering Synthesis, Electrical Engineering, and Science
of Materials. The curriculum provides for three addi-
tional elective courses in the engineering science field.
The Engineering Synthesis course, to be taken in the
last semester of the senior year, culminates the new engi-
neering science program. According to Strandhagen, it
is designed to interest the student in the professional
method of attacking whole engineering problems. It will
also serve to integrate the broad background of engineer-
ing sciences which the student has already acquired. Most
of all, Strandhagen points out, it will develop the student
“by challenging his imagination and shaking him loose
from implicit assumptions and from routine habits of
thinking.” The student will be presented with problems
cutting across many fields, some of them far removed
from his own previous education and experience.
Dr. Strandhagen, who has been on the Notre Dame
faculty since 1946, received a B.S.E. in Naval Architecture
and Marine Engineering degree at the University of Mich-
igan in 1939. He also was awarded a B.S.E. in Mechan-
ical Engineering, a M.S.E. in Engineering Mechanics
and a Doctorate in Engineering Mechanics, all from the
University of Michigan.
can adapt himself to changing technology ”
15
the REVIEW OF POLITICS
Editors of the scholarly Review of Politics are, (left to right):
Frank O’Malley, M. A. Fitzsimons and Father Thomas T.
McAvoy, C.S.C.



The Review of Politics is celebrating its twentieth
year. This is not a long time in the one hundred and
sixteen years of Notre Dame, but it is a sizeable achieve-
ment in the realm of scholarly publications. Many other
scholarly publications, having greater funds and equally
noted friends, have failed during these twenty years. Two
important factors have kept the Review of Politics vigor-
ous and important. The first has been the freedom of
discussion preserved in the pages of the Review of Politics
by the University administration which has underwritten
the costs of pubheation. The second has been the friend-
ship and support accorded to the Review of Politics by,
first, its editorial staff and, then, its generous friends both
within and outside the University.
Since the Review of Politics is essentially a university
pubheation in the field of the humanities, this freedom
of expression has enabled its editors and contributors to
expound and defend particularly the principles and prac-
tices which uphold human freedom and dignity and to
study the problems of the modem world from the tradi-
tional philosophy of a Christian university. It was sig-
nificant that the first article in the first issue of the
Review of Politics in January, 1939, was Jacques Mari-
tain’s “Integral Humanism and the Crisis of Modem
Times.” In that first volume also were articles by Morti-
mer Adler, John U. Nef and Jerome G. Kerwin of the
University of Chicago, Goetz Briefs of Georgetown, Don-
ald Davidson of Vanderbilt University, C. J. Friedrich of
Harvard, Christopher Hollis of England, Desmond Fitz-
gerald of Ireland, and Etienne De Greeffe of Louvain.
Central in the foundation of the Review of Politics
was its first editor, the late Waldemar Gurian, a brilliant
opponent of Hitlerian and Soviet totalitarianism, who
had been forced into exile before the wrath of Nazism.
Dr. Gurian invited all who shared his devotion to free-
dom and humanism to contribute to the new quarterly.
His own exposition of the plots and threats of Soviet
Marxism under Stalin showed him to be one of the best
informed critics of modem communism. Dr. Gurian never
lost his affection for the Russian people while remaining
a tireless opponent of the philosophy of Lenin and Stalin.
Associated with him during the first years were Professor
Aloys Hermens, whose analysis of the evils introduced
into several modem governments by the use of propor-
tional representation has received international recogni-
tion, and Professor Frank O’Malley who assumed the
important task of maintaining the high literary quality
of the articles and of supervising the printing of the mag-
azine. Father Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., joined Pro-
fessor O’Malley in 1942 as co-managing editor and Pro-
fessor M. A. Fitzsimons collaborated from the beginning
with Dr. Gurian in the many editorial chores.
The list of distinguished contributors to the Review
of Politics during the twenty years includes, besides those
mentioned above, theologians such as Jean Danielou, and
Gustave Weigel, such philosophers as Yves Simon, Joseph
Pieper, and Father Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., such historians
as Francis Dvomik, Freidrich Meineke, Guillaume De
Bertier, Franz Schnabel, such political scientists as Hans
Morganthau, Hans Kohn, Clinton Rossiter, Father Luigi
Sturzo, Eric Voegelin and Frank Wilson, and such econ-
omists as Gottfried Haberler, Fritz Morstein Marx, Fritz
16
NOTRE DAME
. . to expound and defend principles
Karl Mann and Peter Drucker. Among the outstanding ar-
ticles published in the twenty years should be noted Mari-
tain’s “On the Meaning of Contemporary Atheism/’ Yves
Simon’s “Secret Sources of the Racist Ideology/’ Hannah
Arendt’s “Ideology and Terror: a Novel Form of Gov-
ernment/’ Eric Voegelin’s “The Formation of the Marx-
ian Revolutionary Idea/’ Peter Drucker’s “Organized
Religion and the American Creed/’ Frank O’Malley’s
“The Culture of the Church/’ Herbert Butterfield’s “The
Tragic Element in Modem International Conflict/’ Clin-
ton L. Rossiter’s “Constitutional Dictatorship in the
Atomic Age/’ and Aaron I. Abell’s “The Reception of
Leo XIII’s Labor Encyclical in America, 1891-1919.”
After the death of Dr. Gurian in May, 1954, the
Review of Politics had become such an accepted voice in
American intellectual life that its policies could be easily
continued by Father McAvoy and Professor O’Malley for
a brief interim and since 1956 under the inspired direc-
tion of Professor Fitzsimons the high standards of the
Gurian editorial regime have been maintained. Despite
the fact that the Review of Politics does not have the
support of any learned society and is not endowed, the
Review has achieved one of the widest circulations of any
cultural quarterly of the country. It has, in addition, a
constant clientele in the public and university libraries.
Its articles have been frequently reprinted by the Gov-
ernment for distribution abroad and for use in the train-
ing of officers in the armed forces, and in many scholarly
anthologies.
During the twenty years, the Editors of the Review of
Politics have received many generous notices in the press.
They have also received praise from business men, from
SEVEwoFrouncs	H
from ecclesiastical


men in government, from educators,
leaders and from others interested in intellectual affairs,
particularly when approached from the angle of public
policy. Archbishop Joseph E. Ritter has said: “I am
willing to be put on record as a reader of the Review of
Politics from the beginning and also that I find it scholar-
ly, stimulating and informative.” Monsignor Francis Lally,
the Editor of the Pilot of Boston says: “Every issue of
the Review of Politics is a new adventure in the world
of ideas, and specifically those ideas that are now shaping
the history of oui' times. For all observers The Review
provides a thoughtful and persuasive commentary; for
the Catholic student of political thought it is indispens-
able.” Professor Raymond J. Sontag of the University
of California says: “I open each issue of the Review of
Politics knowing that it will contain articles and reviews
which are not only informative and interesting, but which
will illuminate some aspect of human society and politics.”
To commemorate these twenty years the Editors of
the Review of Politics have decided to double the size of
the October, 1958 and the January, 1959 issues of the
Review and to publish a selection of the better articles
of the twenty years in a Review of Politics Reader. The
October issue features articles by Father Gustave Weigel,
S.J., on Latin America, Joseph Pieper on the philosophy
of tradition, Hannah Arendt on history and science, Ray-
mond Sontag, Kenneth Thompson, Francis J. Colligan
and Jacques de Bourbon-Busset. The January issue will
consist solely of articles and reviews by the faculty of the
University of Notre Dame, led by its editors Dr. Fitzsi-
mons, Professor O’Malley, and Father McAvoy.
The continuance of such a scholarly journal as the
Review of Politics depends upon the extra efforts of its
friends, because it can scarcely be self sustaining. While
the University of Notre Dame has generously underwrit-
ten the finances of the Review of Politics, the Review
has special friends who help by becoming sustaining sub-
scribers. These sustaining subscribers among whom are
some members of the hierarchy, pay $200.00 for a twenty-
five-year subscription, $125.00 for fifteen years, $75.00
for ten years, $25.00 for five years and $15.00 for two
years. The annual subscription is $5.00 and the Review
of Politics Reader will sell for $6.00. Subscribers to the
Review of Politics may obtain the Reader for an addition
of $3.00 for each subscription and further copies at $4.00
each. For your convenience, clip and mail:
Please enter (or renew) my subscription to the
Review of Politics beginning with the January, 1959
issue. Also send a copy of the Review of Politics
Reader.
Name of subscriber......................................
Address-------------------------------------------------
City....................................................
of human freedom and dignity.
Please
Regular subscription at $5.00
Copy of Review of Politics Reader at $3.00
Additional copies of the Reader at $4.00
enter my name as a sustaining subscriber for:
25 years at $200.00
15 years at $125.00
10 years at $ 75.00
□ 5 years at $25.00
□ 2 years at $15.00
□
Ignorance With Spurs On . . .
(continued from page 13)
and Judge Victor Dowling, Michael Williams and Mon-
signor Michael J. Lavelle were among the Catholic
representatives, who participated in these early confer-
ences. Out of them emerged, in 1928, the organization
that subsequently came to be known as the National
Conference of Christians and Jews.
It was not until 1930 that the dual base of co-chair-
manship was broadened into a tripod and a Catholic,
Professor Carlton J. H. Hayes of Columbia, was named
as co-chairman to serve with Baker and Straus. It was a
happy choice and Hayes served with distinction for fifteen
years. A convert who had been drawn into the Church
by his profound study of history, Hayes was keenly con-
scious of Catholic sensitivity to compromise of doctrine
and guarded against it.
o	o
One of the most frequent topics of discussion at
NCCJ meetings over the years was the cause of religious
prejudice, and on this point not only the rank and file
but often the leaders and officers differed widely. As far
as prejudice against Catholics in the United States was
concerned, Hayes was convinced that, while racial, eco-
nomic and other factors are involved, the basic cause is
widespread ignorance of what Catholics really believe. It
is the misconceptions and caricatures of Catholicism which
fills the mental belfries of Protestants and (to a lesser ex-
tent) of Jews, with bats scaring them half to death.
Here we come to the crux of the problem confronting
the Conference: the origin or source of religious preju-
dice. As the etymology {pre and judge} of the word
indicates, prejudice is judging before all the facts are in.
In its root meaning it is thus the action of a judge or
jury in deciding a case before hearing all the relevant
evidence. Prejudice results from what Josh Billings calls
“knowing so many things which ain’t so.” It is “being
down on what you’re not up on.”
No sketch of the Conference would be complete with-
out mention of the work of Roger William Straus. A co-
founder of the organization and for the first 29 years of
its existence a co-chairman, Straus was a tower of strength
to the Conference.
Knowing his lifelong devotion to the work of brother-
o	o
hood, his widow, Gladys G. Straus, upon his death in
1957, contributed a million dollars to the Conference as
a memorial to her husband, thus equalling the princely
gift of the Ford family.
The founders of the NCCJ were fortunate in enlisting
the services of Everett R. Clinchy, who brought to his
task a consuming conviction of its worth and a high spirit
of dedication. Undaunted by the inertia of the many and
the opposition of the few, Dr. Clinchy has labored as the
full-time director of the organization with tact, resource-
fulness and undiscourageable good will for the eradication
of religious prejudice and the promotion of brotherhood.
The Conference serves as a symbol of the under-
standing and good will which must obtain in civic rela-
tions in the most polyglot nation in modern history, if
that nation is to possess the internal unity and the strength
necessary to meet the grave challenges facing it today.
It is surely a source of legitimate pleasure for us as Cath-
olics to recall that it was one of our members who made
this outstanding contribution to the development of the
Conference’s program in America.
$100,000
FOR
STUDENT
LOAN
FUND
Mr. Coury
A gift of $100,000 from Miami stockbroker
George Coury will be used to establish a new stu-
dent loan fund at the University of Notre Dame.
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., Executive Vice-
President, said the Coury Fund will provide loans
to students who otherwise might have to withdraw
from school because of financial difficulty. Coury,
who was graduated from Notre Dame in 1928,
faced such a prospect in his senior year, but was
able to complete his college education with the
help of a loan.
Coury’s gift is among the first benefactions
made under Notre Dame’s new ten-year $66,600,000
development program. A total of $5,000,000 of the
projected goal has been earmarked for student aid.
The University is also seeking $27,000,000 in en-
dowment for faculty salaries, $18,600,000 for new
buildings, $11,000,000 for research, and $5,000,000
for administrative purposes.
A native of Lebanon, Coury came to the United
States in 1911 at the age of five and spent his early
years at McCurtain, Okla. According to Coury,
his father first settled in Oklahoma after walking
there from New York City over a period of three
years with a peddler’s pack on his back. George
was graduated from Subiaco Preparatory College
for Boys, Subiaco, Arkansas, in 1924 and entered
Notre Dame the following year. He prepared for
his investment career by specializing in corporate
finance, banking and stock operations in the Uni-
versity’s College of Commerce.
Coury began as a messenger for Blyth and Co.,
a Chicago investment house, eventually becoming
chief statistician. He later was associated with
Shields and Co., another investment firm, and be-
came president of the Self Stoking Stove and Fur-
nace Co. of Chicago. Following four years of World
War II service as a Navy lieutenant commander,
Coury operated a chain of launderettes in Florida
while also serving as president of Eichor Inc., a
Chicago electronics firm. He is a member of the
New York Stock Exchange, a director of the Miami
National Bank, and heads the George Coury Land
and Oil Co. which has extensive real estate hold-
ings in South Florida.
18
NOTRE DAME
THE COST OF GIVING
. . . may be reduced
by taking advantage of existing tax laws
With the end of 1958 approaching,
the following information is highlighted
for alumni and non-alumni friends who
are interested in tax benefits regarding
a contribution to Notre Dame.
Gift of Cash
Existing tax rates have been extremely
helpful in permitting the taxpayer to
make a charitable contribution at low
cost. When you give to the University,
a deduction of the full amount of your
gift up to 30% of your adjusted gross
income for Federal tax purposes is
allowed.
Gift of Property or Securities
The gift need not be from income
or cash. Equally deductible is a prop-
erty gift or a gift from securities. Those
that have increased in value while held
by an individual are deductible at full
market value and are free from any tax
on capital gain — this results in a double
saving to the donor!
Gifts from Corporations
Corporations contributing beyond the
5% limitation in any single year can
extend the excess over as deductions in
the two succeeding years — subject, of
course, to the 5% limitation for each
of the three years. The actual cost of
each contribution dollar is only 48 cents
for corporations which have taxable
incomes in excess of $25,000 since taxes
are paid at the rate of 52% of such
excess. Smaller corporations with in-
comes less than $25,000 are taxed at
30% and the cost of each dollar con-
tribution is 70 cents.
CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS
		Single Person or Separate Return of Married Person		Joint Return of Husband and Wife*	
Taxable Net Income After All Deductions and Exemptions		Net Cost to Donor per $100 Contribution Within Bracket	Rate of Net Tax on Highest Income Bracket	Net Cost to Donor per $100 Contribution Within Bracket	Rate of Net Tax on Highest Income Bracket
$ 4,000 to $ 6,000		$74.00	26%	$78.00	28%
6,000 to	8,000	70.00	30	78.00	22
8,000 to	10,000	66.00	34	74.00	26
10,000 to	12,000	62.00	38	74.00	26
12,000 to	14,000	57.00	43	70.00	30
14,000 to	16,000	53.00	47	70.00	30
16,000 to	18,000	50.00	50	66.00	34
18,000 to	20,000	47.00	53	66.00	34
20,000 to	22,000	44.00	56	62.00	38
22,000 to	26,000	41.00	59	57.00	43
26,000 to	32,000	38.00	62	53.00	47
32,000 to	38,000	35.00	65	47.00	53
38,000 to	44,000	31.00	69	44.00	56
44,000 to	50,000	28.00	72	41.00	59
50,000 to	60,000	25.00	75	38.00	62
60,000 to	70,000	22.00	78	35.00	65
70,000 to	80,000	19.00	81	31.00	69
80,000 to	90,000	16.00	84	28.00	72
90,000 to 100,000		13.00	87	28.00	72
100,000 to 150,000		11.00	89	19.00	81
150,000 to 200,000		10.00	90	13.00	87
Over 200,000		9.00	91		
* Under "split-income" provisions of Internal Revenue Code
19
NEW
ADDITIONS TO:
Commerce. . $500,000
Law
$500,000
Engineering .... $500,000
(2) Graduate Halls . . $2,500,000
Priests Faculty Hall . . . $1,500,000
Maintenance ^Cdnter . . . $>0^,000
. . $3,500,000
Fieldhouse
$4,000,000
ih
College
Library ........$5,000,000
Auditorium . .

Construction has already started on a half-million
dollar maintenance center, the first building to be
erected as part of Notre Dame's ten year, $66,-
600,000 development program. It will replace a
group of old shop facilities which date back to the
early years of the University. The new building is
scheduled for completion in January, 1959, and


BUILDINGS
An integral part of Notre Dame's $66,-
600,000 program during the next ten
years includes the erection of new build-
ings. Numerous present-day campus
structures will forever be impressive
memorials for generous benefactors
after whom they are named. Complete
information on anticipated buildings
may be obtained by addressing the
University of Notre Dame Foundation
Notre Dame, Indiana
will be located on old Juniper Road at the northeast
edge of the campus. The one-story, buff brick
building will include several maintenance shops, a
warehouse providing 30,240 square feet of storage
space, a garage for servicing and storing University
vehicles, and an office. This building will be the
working headquarters for 60 maintenance employees.

