A Cleveland attorney and two Chicago busi-
nessmen have been appointed to Advisory
Councils at the University of Notre Dame. Roger
P. Brennan, of the Cleveland law firm of Jones,
Day, Cockley and Reavis, has accepted member-
ship on the Law School Advisory Council.
Named to the Advisory Council of the College
of Commerce were Raymond W. Durst, River
Forest, UI., former president of The Hallicrafters
Co., and John W. Clarke, head of John W.
Clarke and Co., Chicago investment firm.
The University of Notre Dame in its 120th
academic year has a record enrollment, includ-
ing 1,550 freshmen in a total of 6,609, an all-
time high.
An announcement from the Department of
State, Washington, D. C., says that Rev. Astrik
L. Gabriel, C.R.P., Ph.D., Director of the Medi-
aeval Institute at Notre Dame and a Fellow of
the Royal Historical Society, London, will lec-
ture on the History of International Relations
at the University of Munich and the University
of Freiburg. Father Gabriel will leave for Ger-
many in May, 1962, on a Fulbright fellowship.
Dr. Milton Burton, director of the Radiation
Laboratory and professor of chemistry at the
University of Notre Dame, made a 17-day visit
to Japan to participate in conferences and make
addresses before several scientific groups.
Dr. Francis M. Kobayashi, associate professor
of engineering science at the University of
Notre Dame, was among one hundred rep-
resentatives of education and industry attend-
ing a conference on “Solar Physics and Re-
entry Dynamics” at Virginia Polytechnic Insti-
tute, Blacksburg, Va., this summer.
A DIGEST OF IMPORTANT HAPPENINGS
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
AND NEWS BRIEFS ON THE ACTIVITIES
OF NOTRE DAME MEN.
sota. His designs were chosen in competition
with leading liturgical artists from the United
States and Europe.
•	Two winners of Alfred P. Sloan National
Scholarships entered the University of Notre
Dame this year. They are Joseph M. Hornback
of Middletown, Ohio, and Steve E. DuBois of
Spokane, Washington.
•	Vincent H. Fraatz has been named to the post
of director of new building engineering for
campus planning at the University of Notre
Dame. Edwin V. Lyon has been named to
succeed Mr. Fraatz as the director of main-
tenance for the University.
•	Rev. Mark Gregory McGrath, C.S.C., was re-
cently appointed auxiliary bishop of Panama by
Pope John XXIH. Bishop McGrath was the
fourth member of the Holy Cross Fathers’ Indi-
ana Province to be raised to the hierarchy in
the past year. The others are: Bishop Alfred
Mendez, C.S.C., of Arecibo, Puerto Rico; Bishop
Vincent McCauley, C.S.C., of Fort Portal, Ugan-
da; and Auxiliary Bishop Theotonius Ganguly,
C.S.C., of Dacca, East Pakistan.
•	A two-day conference on African Mission
Education was held at the University recently
under the sponsorship of the Rockefeller Foun-
dation. Dr. George N. Shuster, assistant to the
president of Notre Dame, explained that the
conference examined the future of education
conducted in Africa under the Christian Mis-
sionary auspices. Dr. Robert W. Strickler, head
of the Department of Education at Notre Dame,
was conference director.
•	Two seniors in chemical engineering, Mark A.
Harter, of Peoria, UI., and James J. Pottmyer,
of Oklahoma City, Okla., have been awarded
grants by the National Science Foundation as
part of its program to encourage the participa-
tion of undergraduates in research.
Robert A. Leader, liturgical artist and asso-
ciate professor of art at the University of Notre
Dame, has been awarded commissions for stained
glass and murals for two Catholic churches
under construction in South Dakota and Minne-
Ernest L. Eliel, professor of chemistry at the
University of Notre Dame, has accepted a post
on the Board of Editors of the Journal of
Organic Chemistry for a term of five years.
(Continued on page 19)
• EDITOR: JOHN H. JANOWSKI
NOTRE DAME VOL. 14, No. 4, WINTER, 1961
Published quarterly by the University of Notre
Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second
class matter May 10, 1928, at Post Office at Notre
Dame, Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.
2 NOTRE DAME

■
*
$18,000,000*
CHALLENGE
PASSES
HALF-WAY
POINT
$18,000,000
On. November 15, 1961, pledges and contri-
butions to Notre Dame’s $18,000,000 Challenge
Program exceeded the $10,000,000 mark.
This, of course, is encouraging to all members
of the Notre Dame family — alumni and friends
of the University — who are working hard on
this “once-in-a-lifetime” opportunity presented
by the Ford Foundation’s special matching
gift plan.
The five major goals of the $18,000,000
Challenge Program are:
(1)	$8,000,000 for the new 13-story Notre
Dame Memorial Library — designed to
be one of America’s great University
libraries.
(2)	$4,000,000 for two Graduate Students
Residence Halls — one for teaching
nuns and the other for lay students.
(3)	$2,000,000 for Student Aid — for
scholarships, fellowships, and direct
loans to deserving students otherwise
denied the opportunity to receive an
education.
(4)	$3,500,000 for Faculty Development —
to strengthen the present faculty and
provide resources for attracting the
finest teaching talent available in the
future.
(5)	$500,000 for an Administrative Fund
— to help finance a retirement pro-
gram for non-academic employees of
the University.
When the October 17 Notre Dame Challenge
Rallies were held throughout the nation in
more than 200 cities, the general appeal of the
Challenge officially started.
The initial reports of the thousands of volun-
teer workers securing campaign pledges from
Notre Dame alumni and friends have been most
encouraging in the first month.
3
Most alumni and friends of Notre Dame realize
that their pledges and contributions, designed to cover
a period of three tax years, must be considerably greater
than what they had been accustomed to give.
In fact, the majority of gifts and pledges received
to date have been accompanied by comments from the
donors expressing their wholehearted approval and back-
ing of this Challenge Program — so vital for Notre
Dame’s continued growth as one of the great Universities
of the world.
As the year end approaches, the Notre Dame Founda-
tion desires to remind alumni and friends of the ad-
vantages of making their gifts so as to take full advantage
of tax laws for the year 1961.
At the same time, Notre Dame gratefully acknowl-
edges three recent substantial gifts which will help con-
siderably in meeting the $18,000,000 goal. The gift of
$1,000,000 by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation received
acclaim in an editorial of the South Bend Tribune, a re-
print of which accompanies this article. The $350,000
gift of Mr. Alfred C. Stepan, Jr. and his wife, is described
on page 7. The $50,000 gift from Houston Endowment,
Inc. established the Jesse H. Jones Professorship of Busi-
ness Administration, which will be held by Dr. Thomas
P. Bergin, head of the department of business organi-
zation and management at Notre Dame.
For the remainder of the Challenge Program, every
effort must be made to assure successful completion of
the campaign. In the tradition of Notre Dame in every
endeavor, we recall the inspirational lines of the “Vic-
tory March” . . . “what though the odds be great or
small, old Notre Dame will win over all.”
Notre Dame can, and will, meet this Challenge!
The question is frequently asked of me: “Why did
you as a Rabbi go to Notre Dame?” I am always proud
to answer that question, that having lived in South Bend
as a native of Indiana, I felt a kinship to the University
and a kind of local pride with the members of my family
who have gone there and enjoyed the relationship. I
have never had in my whole life any single regret about
attending this wonderful University, and the great in-
spiring things it has given me not only as a person, but
also as a spiritual leader in the Jewish community.
The first thing for which I had great admiration
for Notre Dame is the fact that it infused within its
students a feeling that religion must become part and
parcel of one’s entire being. It cannot be put away in
a small corner and opened up once a week and then
closed. It must become a way of life and a way of
thinking which inspires one to feel one’s moral responsi-
bility to one’s community. Going to a Catholic University
made me rethink my own faith — the power it must
play and the function it must use in my own life. This
is perhaps the great need of all Americans, for secularism
has been like a cancer eating away at the very moral
fiber of our being. If secularism is to replace religious
faith, then we will have lost the purpose of the great
struggle in which we are now so deeply enmeshed. Each
who feels the need to fight Communism must do it
on the basis of his religious faith and religious com-
o	o
mitment. There is no escape for this important fact,
which each of us must believe in if we want to make
this world a meaningful and spiritually creative universe
that will bring us fulfillment.
Notre Dame taught me to live with my fellow Catholics
without prejudice. Unfortunately so many schools place
minority groups in a position where they are subject to
social discrimination of one kind or another. I found
that the University was not only kind and considerate,
but most helpful in my hour of need. I came to the
University as a son of moderate circumstances, im-
migrant parents who could not afford at the time to
give me the kind of education I needed. Notre Dame
was most helpful to me as a Jew and tried to give me
that assistance so that I could finish my education and
take my place in this great American way of life. The
help that was given to me was done on the basis that
all of us have together a place to share in this world
and none need be discriminated against because of dif-
ference of color or race or creed. I found a warm ac-
ceptance, a sensitive understanding, and a sharing that
made my years at the University ones that I shall al-
ways treasure. I sang in the Notre Dame Glee Club
4 NOTRE DAME
Alfred P. Sloan, Jr., president
of the Alfred P. Sloan Foun-
dation, who presented to the
University of Notre Dame a
grant totaling $1,000,000 to
expand and improve the Col-
lege of Engineering. A reprint
of a South Bend Tribune edi-
torial about the gift appears
also.
W Wutlj Wnitw.
A million dollars can do a lot of things.
It can buy almost half a top-ranked Rembrandt
painting.
It can build a solid mile of four-lane divided
superhighway.
It can provide a comfortable lifetime income
for an individual who invests it wisely.
Or it can make a good university a better uni-
versity.
The mil'ion dollars just granted to the Univer-
sity of Notre Dame by the Alfred P. Sloan Founda-
tion will be put to the last of these uses. Spe-
cifically, it will go toward expanding and improv-
ing Notre Dame’s college of engineering.
As Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., the uni-
versity’s president, pointed out in the announce-
ment of the grant, this particular million dollars
comes at a time vzhen it will have an impact on
more than just the engineering college.
“It will have an impetus,” Father Hesburgh
said, “that is hard to measure.”
The grant has been made at a time when Notre
Dame is able to match each two dollar gift with
one additional dollar from the Ford Foundation.
So without lifting a finger, the university will see
the Sloan grant swell to a million and a half dol-
lars.
And there’s still more. Notre Dame is in the
midst of a gigantic fund-raising campaign aimed
at improving its physical facilities, its faculty, and
its educational program generally. A single-
package million-dollar gift can be as stimulating
as a shot of adrenaline during such a campaign.
Our congratulations to the Sloan Foundation for
its generosity to a local university.
And our congratulations to Notre Dame for hav-
ing been considered worthy of the gift.
J
ragggyl
LOT
’ fl
for four years and there found a wonderful fellowship
among my fellow members. In those four years I never
missed a concert with the Glee Club, and always within
my heart was a great thankfulness that I was so privileged
to be here. I shared in exchange of ideas., of faith and
of knowledge which was important to my inner security
and to my understanding of my fellow Catholics. I
learned to appreciate many of the profound qualities of
their faith, and an understanding of their heritage and
the realization of the bridge between Judaism and
Christianity.
The late Pope Pius XI said, “Spiritually we are
all Semites.” In this I found a warm understanding in
terms of how I thought to relate my faith to many of
the faculty members and students and how they sought
to relate the same to me. There was never a discrimi-
natory line of demarkation between those who were
Catholics and those who were non-Catholics. We were
all students together, all striving to know, all striving to
understand, and this kind of spiritual exchange gave me
a far greater insight into the Judao-Christian tradition
than I have ever had before. To have lived in this kind
of environment and to have shared it gave me the kind
of enrichment which I feel has been an important part
of my life in terms of my relationship to all of the other
members of the different faiths of the community I have
served at the present time.
Philosophically, my knowledge of Thomism and scho-
lasticism was an important fact to my understanding of
the need of a synthesis today between religion, science
and culture. The tragedy of our modern age is that there
is not an over-all philosophy which can unite religion,
science and culture into one organic and harmonious
whole. I have always had deep admiration for the fact
that Notre Dame has tried to inspire its students in-
tellectually to strive for that kind of philosophic and
theologic union which will give to our way of life some
meaning and purpose. The tragedy of many universities
is that there are so many specialists, each divided into
their own sphere that there is no common ground phil-
osophically for all of them to unite together in one
common purpose as a University. I found at Notre Dame
somehow that philosophic union which is important for
me to understand the need that in the common culture
of our times there must be some way by which religion,
science and culture must unite their efforts to bring forth
a greater generation to mankind. This is the crying need
of our times and the greatest challenge; for nothing
could be more tragic than for the modem man to be
(Continued on page 18)
5
7 ’
4
i-'
j
»
T
!^3
S®
A

from a trip
returned
I have just
around the world. Unlike Magellan,
whose group was in transit a couple
of years, my trip was limited to a cou-
ple of weeks, which is a kind of com-
promise between Magellan and Ga-
o^arin.
D
many
many
pitals,
many
I saw a dozen universities, as
high schools and colleges, and
other things like temples, hos-
research institutes, as well as
alumni and some splendid


Americans. Most of all, I saw prob-
lems. Somehow, our problems at Notre
Dame seem easier after one sees prob-
lems on a world-wide basis.
It is difficult to describe what hap-
pens to me when I see the larger prob-
lems that face all the world today. In
one way, I am relieved to see that at
least our problems at home are man-
ageable in a way that these world-wide
problems are not. And in another way,
I see that we must do much more at
home if these world-wide problems are
ever to become manageable.
Here is where Notre Dame comes
into the picture. First, I do not think
that the University can close its eyes
to these world-wide problems — of edu-
cation, health, food, development, and
all the rest — if they are ever to be
solved. We could isolate ourselves and
say that these are not our problems.
But that would be like saying that we
are not our brother’s keeper — wheth-
er that brother be Filipino, Pakistani,
Indian, or African.
Did you ever stop to think that what
Our Lord said in Palestine many years
ago is valid today — but in a much
larger measure? Christ, Our Lord,
spoke of our neighbor. The people
to whom He spoke had a very restricted
idea of neighborhood — a small comer
of a small country, a tribe or clan, a
few families which exhausted their ac-
quaintanceship. But today all the world
are our neighbors, only hours away. I
left Notre Dame at nine o’clock one
morning, and was with our alumni in
Hawaii, four thousand miles away, at
three that afternoon. I left Hawaii at
two in the afternoon, and was in Japan
for dinner at 5:30 p.m.
All that we are doing and plan to
do at Notre Dame must somehow bear
a fruitful relationship to this world in
which we live. Somehow, our students
today must learn to comprehend the
vastness and smallness of our world.
Somehow, they must find in this world
a challenge to all the wellsprings of
dedication, sacrifice, and commitment.
That alone can promise a better world
tomorrow.
When you tighten your belts and
give a sacrificial gift to the new Li-
o	o
brary, you should understand that what
will happen in this Library will in
some small measure affect the world
and all of its problems. I don’t mean
that Notre Dame is going to solve all
the world’s problems, but I am con-
vinced that many of our students who
pass through the doors of this Library
are going to comprehend better just
what the whole world is today, and
what it needs. Some of them are going
to respond to these needs, and are go-
ing to help people in far-off lands find
some of the answers they need, as Dr.
Tom Dooley did.
I met many Americans who were
doing just this — and many were from
Notre Dame. I hope there will be
many more in the years to come, be-
cause all the world needs people more
than money — people who understand,
people who are both competent and
dedicated, people who can find neigh-
bors to be helped and loved every-
where, not just on Main Street.
Notre Dame can supply such people.
Some of them are in Chile today —
working this moment in the hopeless
region between Santiago and Chilloe,
bringing hope. Some are in Africa;
some are in Asia. But everywhere, they
are bringing light to darkness, and
everyone of you who makes their edu-
cation possible is also a torchbearer.
Tighten the belt, but do it happily, for
you are making others happy and you
are making hope possible for those
who have long found hope impossible
— our neighbors.
Devotedly yours in Notre Dame,


Student Activities Center
mm
Features Unusual Geodesic Design
Alfred C. Stepan, Jr.
President
Stepan Chemical Company

The newest building under construction on the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame campus this winter is the Stepan
Student Activities Center, named after its donors, Al-
fred C. Stepan, Jr. and his wife, Mary Louise, of Win-
netka, Ill.
Mr. Stepan is the founder and president of Stepan
Chemical Company, Northfield, Ill.
NEW CONCERT CENTER
The new center for concerts and convocations at the
University is scheduled for completion in the spring
of 1962. Its cost will approximate $350,000 and it is
being erected in the Northeast sector of the campus,
directly north of the Notre Dame Memorial Library, also
under construction.
In fact, the construction of the 13-story Library
initiated earlier this year, necessitated the demolition of
the University Drill Hall, built in 1943 by the Navy,
where all large student concerts and convocations were
previously held.
The exterior lower portion of the modern and com-
The University Drill Hall,
now demolished, formerly
housed many student
concerts and convocations
at the University of
Notre Dame. It was
built by the Navy in 1943.
pletely equipped Stepan Center will be of buff brick
construction, similar to other campus buildings. The
roof will have a distinctive anodized aluminum dome.
Because of its geodesic design, there are no pillars or
beams on the interior of the building. And while it
doesn’t look like it from the outside, it will accommodate
a seated audience of 3,000 persons.
Other' features of the new Stepan Center include a
vinyl tile floor covering throughout, a portable, com-
pletely lighted and equipped stage, and excellent acous-
tics. A large parking lot adjoining the center is also
being prepared to accommodate visitors and guests.
LYRIC OPERA PRESIDENT
Mr. Stepan’s interest in donating this new building
to the University is particularly understandable in view
of the fact that he is the president of the Lyric Opera
of Chicago. He realized that without such an edifice,
Notre Dame students would be denied the opportunity
to hear and enjoy numerous concerts and programs from
visiting artists and companies throughout the year.
In addition to being a 1931 Notre Dame graduate,
Mr. Stepan is a member of the University’s Associate
Board of Lay Trustees. Of his seven sons and daughters,
three sons are Notre Dame graduates and a fourth is
currently a freshman at the University.



7
cc . . . the pursuit
of excellence . . . ”
®^^U©rW£UU©
^GRADUATE SCHOOL
The Graduate School is perhaps less well known to
friends of the University of Notre Dame than are the
undergraduate colleges and the Law School. At the
present time the doctor’s degree is offered in 16 de-
partments and the master’s degree in 26.
The development of the Graduate School, which has
taken place chiefly since World War II, can be shown
by the increasing number of degrees awarded. A total
of 87 Ph.D. degrees were awarded in various fields in
the six-year period 1945-1950; 377 in the ten-year period
1951-1960; and 49 in the year 1961.
On the level of the master’s degree the production
has been no less significant. From 1951 to 1955 approxi-
mately 165 master’s degrees of various kinds were con-
ferred each year, and then the number climbed steadily
year after year until it reached 411 in 1961. It usually
surprises one to learn that more Ph.D. degrees were
awarded in chemistry7 in the last decade than B.S. de-
grees in the same field.
TWO SEPARATE OPERATIONS
Graduate education at Notre Dame is conducted in
two separate operations — the regular academic year
and the summer session. The student body, the educa-
tional programs, and the objectives of both are quite
different. The summer session of the University is pre-
dominantly graduate. For the past decade the under-
graduate enrollment has hovered around 500, whereas
the graduate enrollment has risen steadily from approxi-
mately 800 ten years ago to 2450 in the summer of 1961.
The great majority of the summer graduate students
are high school teachers who are working for the
master’s degree, and the educational effort of summer
school is therefore largely teacher training. Courses have
been adapted and some special programs have been
set up to meet their needs. Included among the special
programs of recent summers are an institute for high
school teachers of chemistry and a similar institute in
mathematics, both supported by the National Science
Foundation, a summer foreign language institute and
an institute in guidance, both supported under the Na-
tional Defense Education Act. About one half of the
students in the summer session are Sisters.
800 STUDENTS REGULARLY
During the regular academic year the Graduate Schoo]
now enrolls approximately 800 students, of which 600
would be considered full-time students. They are aiming
at careers as teacher-scholars in college and university
work, as research scientists in industrial laboratories and
government installations, or as experts whose specialized
knowledge may be utilized in various ways by business
and government.
TEACHING ASSISTANTSHIPS HELD
Approximately 225 students hold teaching assistant-
ships: many of these are laboratory assistants in under-
graduate laboratory courses in the sciences and engi-
neering; some assist professors who have very large
lecture classes by handling discussion groups or quiz
sections into which the large lecture classes are broken
down; and some teach courses under the direction of
experienced faculty members. Most of the teaching
assistantships in the humanities and social sciences are
held by those students who have progressed beyond the
level of the M.A. in their own studies. In the sciences
and in engineering there are also 80 research assistants
or research fellows who are supported through research
grants or contracts from the government or through
industrial research fellowships. The largest single group
of these are in chemistry on the Radiation Project which
receives support from the Atomic Energy Commission.
FELLOWSHIPS ALSO WON
In addition to the graduate assistants there is a grow-
ing number of graduate students who hold fellowships
won in national competition. For example, this year 16
students hold National Defense Education Fellowships, 11
have National Science Foundation Fellowships, and 3
Woodrow Wilson Fellowships. Largely through a por-
tion of the Ford Foundation grant to the University, 16
first-year graduate fellowships and 4 dissertation-year
fellowships have been established, and parallel to these
there are 8 Arthur J. Schmitt Fellowships in science and
engineering.
Notre Dame does not plan to have a large graduate
school, but an increasingly effective one whose rate of
production of Ph.D.’s will be high in proportion to its
size. Because graduate education is expensive, here we
are looking very definitely for quality and not numbers.
ART GALLERY SETS EXHIBIT SCHEDULE
John Howett, curator of the Notre Dame Art
Gallery, has announced exhibitions which will be
featured in the West Gallery during the next
few months. The Gallery is open daily from 1
to 5 p.m. and there is no admission charge.
The schedule: Until December 15 — “Contempo-
rary Belgian Paintings,” assembled by the Bel-
gian government for viewing in the Midwest;
December 20 to January 28 — “The Arts of
Ancient Peru,” from the Art Institute of Chi-
cago; February 4 to March 4 — “Chicago Col-
lectors,” selections from outstanding private col-
lections; and March 11 to April 8 — “The Saints
in Print and Manuscript,” a Lenten show from
Lessing Kosenwald’s collection.
8 NOTRE DAME


- a full and dedicated life	{
9
I
KSBW®
JIIWSB
hts long career at Notre
In
Dame,
10 NOTRE DAME
This phoio feature about Rev.
Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., exemplifies
the myriad activities of all Holy Cross
priests who serve the University of
Notre Dame. (The initials C.S.C. after
their names come from the Latin
phrase, Congregatio a Sancta Cruce,
which means Congregation of
Holy Cross.)
In some ways, Father Carey is
unusual and exceptional. He has lived
at Notre Dame since 1922 v.hen he
came here as a seminarian at the
age of 14. His long tenure wiih the
University as a teacher, administrator,
rector, confessor, etc., has made him
one of the most familiar priests
on the campus.
In most other ways, the life of
Father Carey is symbolic of the life of
every Holy Cross priest at Notre Dame.
While some teach more, counsel
more, or specialize in some other
aspect of campus life to a greater
degree, each Holy Cross priest leads
a full and dedicated life and
contributes unselfishly to the formation
of the Notre Dame man.
Father Carey has performed hundreds of
Baptisms, as pictured above. In preparing
for classes and answering a multitude c
questions, Father Carey's reference books
are easily accessible and frequently
used by him in his daily work (right).

At Our Lady s Chapel in Sacred Heart
Church (above), Father Carey celebrates
a Nuptial Mass, one of the many
weddings at which he has officiated at
Notre Dame.
Father Carey
to performing
In Alumni Hall (below),
enters the confessional prior
another priestly duty.
6
has
the
When rather Carey
Carey joined with
(First Row I to r)
Alfred F. Mendez,
L. Boehm, Father
a hall activity
John DeWerth,
Falls, Wis., and
Arranging
with Seniors
Menomonee
his classmates,
Bishop
Father Claude
Thomas P.
opportunity, he heads for the
golf course for a few hours of
exercise. Usually, though, you
can see him hiking around the
campus as pictured on page 9.
„ -	y -
0
MM
Father Carey participates in
a collegiate seminar with Notre
Dame juniors (upper right). In
his room in Alumni Hall, Father
Carey greets (lower right) Peter
Cole, Evansville, Ind. and
Patrick Carey, his brother,
Kokomo, Ind., two of the many
visitors
him on
who stop by to see
campus.



Joseph Mendel, Cherryville, N.C.,
Father Carey is always available
to assist students as rector of
Alumni Hall (upper left). Two
nurses from South Bend, (center
left) talk to Father Carey about
the Catholic faith. On the Silver
Anniversary of his ordination,
in 1960 (lower left) Father

Jones, Father John M. Dupuis,
Father Harold W. Riley, and
Father Edward S. Shea. (Second
Row I to r) Father Thomas J.
Culhane, Father John P. Whelly,
Father Carey, Father Clement E.
Kane, Father Richard D. Patrick,
and Father Regis J. O’Neil.

11
by WILLIAM M. BURKE
A4Ay
4
8
wt


RESHMEN
On. May 22, 1961 the Academic Council of the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame approved a new program entitled,
“The Freshman Year of Studies.” At the same time, my
appointment as Dean of Freshmen to head up this pro-
gram was announced,
o
This new program should interest the entire Notre
Dame family — not only the parents and friends of fu-
ture Notre Dame freshmen, but the thousands of alumni
and friends of the University who share a common in-
terest in Notre Dame’s pursuit of excellence — in all
fields.
Beginning in September 1962 the University of Notre
Dame will inaugurate a new program entitled the Fresh-
man Year of Studies. The beginning student, accepted
as a freshman, does not enter directly into any of the
four undergraduate colleges — Arts and Letters, Science,
Engineering, or Business Administration. Instead he is
admitted into the Notre Dame Freshman Year of Studies.
He makes, on application, a “Declaration of Intent” of
a particular undergraduate college which he proposes to
enter as a sophomore. This decision, however, is not
made final until the spring of the freshman year, and
entrance into the particular college takes place at the
end of the freshman year.
A NEW APPROACH
This is a new approach of Notre Dame to the ad-
mission and instruction of freshmen. The applicant should
note with care that his Declaration of Intent is very
important, though it is not necessarily the ruling factor
either in his admission into Notre Dame as a freshman,
or in his acceptance into a particular college as a sopho-
more. It can happen that an applicant may be generally
acceptable for Notre Dame, but not for the particular
intent which he has declared; and he may therefore be
requested to accept admission into another choice. Or
it can happen that a freshman may change his intent
during freshman year, and enter as a sophomore a col-
lege different from the one for which he first declared
on application.
Here, then, is a very important consideration. Appli-
cants should note carefully that the freshman courses
in mathematics and science which are required in the in-
tent for Science and Engineering are somewhat different
from these same courses as they are laid out for fresh-
men in Arts and Letters and Business Administration
intent.
DIFFERENCE IN PURPOSE
This difference does not reflect a difference in quality,
as if to say that one sort of mathematics and science is
first-rate and the other second-rate. But the difference
does reflect a difference in purpose in the two approaches.
Freshman mathematics and science in the Science and
Engineering intent are introductory courses, preliminary
to further, later work in these same subjects. Arts and
Letters and Business Administration mathematics and
science courses, on the other hand, are generally thought
of as “terminal” courses, designed to acquaint the fresh-
man with these subjects insofar as they contribute to the
culture of an educated man.
12 NOTRE DAME

Thus it is clear that the declaration of intent for
Science or Engineering supposes an applicant who, on
top of general admissibility and readiness for study, has
a notably strong high school background, a genuine
talent, and a real interest in doing more advanced work
in mathematics and science.
And yet it is equally clear that many applicants for
Arts and Letters and Business Administration possess
these very same qualities. Thus freshmen declaring in-
tent for Arts and Letters or Business Administration
may request, if they wish, the more specialized mathe-
matics and science, and their request will be granted if
their ability and background seem to warrant this place-
ment.
The upshot of this discussion is that applicants de-
claring intent should try honestly to follow their own
talents and preferences.
college it will be a choice based upon a year of actual
college experience plus an awareness of every possible
academic opportunity open to him at Notre Dame.
Available on a daily schedule throughout the year
will be faculty members serving as academic counselors.
Freshmen will be encouraged, even urged, to take ad-
vantage of this counseling service.
Every opportunity will be given each first year man
to find out his own capabilities and when he makes
his decision for a particular college it will be an intelli-
gent one based upon his own experience and a knowl-
edge of his own capabilities and the opportunities open
to him.
Freshmen applicants will be encouraged to take the
advanced placement college board examinations. Those
who fulfill our requirements on these tests will be given
college credit to the extent of one year (two semesters)
FRESHMAN CLASS SCHEDULE POSSIBILITIES
Arts & Leiters or
Business Administration
INTENT
I. ENGLISH 11-12
I MATHEMATICS IP 12
3,	THEOLOGY-PHILOSOPHY*
4.	SOCIAL SCIENCE ELECTIVE
5.	NATURAL SCIENCE ELECTIVE^
6.	ROTC or PHYSICAL EDUCATION
W. EUROPEAN HISTORY 11-11
BUSINESS IN SOCIETY 1112
POLITICALSCIENCE and
SOCIAL ORDER 11-12
AMERICAN SOCIETY 11-12
CHEMISTRY 11-12
GEOLOGY IM2
TOPICS In PHYSICS 1112
BIOLOGY 11-12
ASTRONOMY 21-22
Science or
Engineering
INTENT
I, ENGLISH 11-12
Z MATHEMATICS 1510
3,	PHYSICS IS IG
4.	CHEMISTRY I5IG
5.	THEOLOGY-PHILOSOPHY*
6.	ROTC er PHYSICAL ED.
Pre-Professional
Medical and Denial
INTENT
I.	ENGLISH 11-12
2.	MATHEMATICS 11-12
3.	THEOLOGY-PHILOSOPHY*
4.	CHEMISTRY 15-10
5.	SOCIAL SCIENCE ELECTIVE
6. ROTC or PHYSICAL ED.
Architecture, fine Arts or Music have special schedules - Write to Dean of Freshmen for additional information.
Non-Catholics are not required to take Theology and will substitute an elective course.
Also, it is known from experience that some fresh-
men, particularly among those who have been accepted
for the Science or Engineering intent, will change their
minds during the freshman year, and decide to enter
some other college at Notre Dame as sophomores. This
change of mind may take place even though the fresh-
man may be doing excellent or satisfactory work in his
first intent and be academically in good standing for
admission into the sophomore year. One of the purposes
of the Notre Dame Freshman Year of Studies is to ease
such changes of mind, and to allow flexibility for en-
trance into the sophomore year with the least possible
backtracking and making up of deficiences.
Once the freshman has arrived on campus there will
be in operation a continuous orientation program which
will last throughout the freshman year. The purpose of
this plan is to alert the first year student to every possible
program of studies available in each of the four under-
graduate colleges. Taking part in these orientation pro-
grams will be the Deans of the undergraduate colleges,
the Department Chairmen, and the faculty. When the
first year student, sometime in May, makes his choice of
and these credits will count among those which are
required for graduation from any of Notre Dame’s col-
leges and major programs.
At present, the advanced placement test is available
in the following subjects: English (Composition and
Literature); Latin, French, German, and Spanish; Euro-
pean and American History; Mathematics; and Biology,
Chemistry, and Physics. The applicant may try for ad-
vanced placement in one or more of these fields.
Some applicants might have taken in high school
advanced-level or honors courses expressly designed to
correspond to college-freshman courses. Other applicants,
even in regular high school courses or through inde-
pendent study, might have made scholastic progress de-
serving advanced placement. In either case, all appli-
cants who try for advanced placement will be considered
equally according to the standards described above.
However, it may not in every case be advisable for a
freshman to pass over the freshman course in subjects
where advanced placement has been awarded. Rarely
is a high school course the exact duplicate of a college
(Continued on page 18)
13

r * • *
GOP in this
century.
civic and alumni af-
Both men have been active in
i
Miller confer at the
Eisenhower and Congressman
President
White House prior to the 1960 Republican election campaign.
Republican
the second
Catholic to
National
Catholic
lead the
Committee on June 2, 1961. He is
to hold this office and the only
Paul E. Buller
Former Chairman
The Democratic
National Committee



•. ‘
by PAUL C. BARTHOLOMEW
At a time when Harvard is being credited with many
and varied contributions of manpower to the Kennedy
administration, it is of added interest to note that Notre
Dame’s contribution to the political scene knows no
partisan bounds. In such quick succession as to be almost
simultaneous, Notre Dame alumni have served as na-
tional chairmen of the nation’s two major parties.
Paul M. Butler, ’27, was Chairman of the Demo-
cratic National Committee from January 1, 1955 until
July 16, 1960, a longer tenure in modern political history
than any other national chairman except James A. Farley.
William E. Miller, ’35, was chosen as Chairman of the


fairs over the years. Butler, a native of South Bend,
began his political activity even before he received his
degree when he served as a precinct worker. His activity
has been confined to party matters. He has never sought
or held public office either by election or by appointment.
He has served as District Chairman, as a member of
the Indiana State Central Committee and of the Demo-
cratic National Committee and of its Executive Com-
mittee as well as National Chairman.
Paul Butler was recently named by President Kennedy
to membership on the Advisory Board of the St. Law-
rence Seaway. Since then he has been chosen by his col-
leagues on the Board as its chairman.
While he was at Notre Dame, Butler attended the
preparatory school then located on the campus prior
to his enrollment at the University. One of his pleasant
memories is that of having Clarence “Pat” Manion as
a teacher of Civics in his high school work, and then,
some years later, having him as a professor in the Law
School. In “prep” school, Butler also had as teachers
Father Miller for Latin and Paul Conagham (now a
Chicago attorney) for English. From his college days he
remembers vividly Father Michael Mulcaire and Father
William Bolger in Economics and Dean Konop, Judge
Wooten, and Professor Frederickson. Paul Butler’s con-
tinuing loyalty to his Alma Mater is best symbolized in
his continuing record of attendance at home football
games.
The recent establishment of Young Republican and
Young Democrat clubs on the campus can be traced
directly to the urging of Butler. He joined others in
pointing out to University authorities the value of these
clubs, and the authorization for them followed shortly,
thereafter.
14 NOTRE DAME

22

born in Lockport, N.Y. and his public
Miller was
President Truman talks to former Chairman
Butler
just
another Democratic campaign began across the
before
nation.



service by contrast has been almost completely in elective
or appointive governmental posts. These included United
States Commissioner for the Western District of New
York, assistant prosecutor at the Nuremberg trials, Dis-
trict Attorney for Niagara County, N.Y., and a member
of the United States House of Representatives from the
Fortieth District of New York State for six terms. Prior
to his election as National Chairman he had served
as Chairman of the National Republican Congressional
Committee.
Bill Miller was in the news recently for his hurried
trip from Sun Valley to Washington to be with his wife
on the occasion of the birth of their fourth child. They
now have three girls and one boy. Incidentally, it was
on his way to Sun Valley for a Republican meeting that
Bill stopped on the campus. He attended a luncheon
at the University and spoke to a student group. He
thoroughly enjoyed the leisurely walk from the Morris
Inn to the Student Center (sites of the two meetings)
as he imagined himself back in his student days of the
mid-thirties.
Miller’s associates from those days recall that he used
to join with regularity in a bridge foursome including
Father Frank Cavanaugh, Father Tom Brennan, and
Lee Flatley.
Butler’s tenure carried him through two national con-
ventions in which Adlai Stevenson and John F. Ken-
nedy were the respective nominees for the Presidency.
As a result, he became a familiar figure to television
viewers throughout the nation. Miller, just named, will
have his convention chance in 1964. Both men have
reputations for aggressive leadership and are noted for
their complete dedication to victory. During the past
summer Miller was featured on nationwide television on
“Meet the Press” over NBC and (with Democratic
Chairman Bailey) on “Joint Appearance” over CBS.
Both Miller and Butler distinguished themselves as
students. Both men have in common a number of things,
William E. Millei
Chaitman
The Republican
National Committee
; -0 f
•ft
in spite of their divergent political views. Both are very
articulate, with Miller being especially adept at “turning
a phrase.” Both have fine families, Miller with four
children, Butler with five. Both have an aggressive ad-
herence to duty and to the pursuit of victory. Both are
in the finest tradition of Notre Dame men.
In addition to Miller and Butler, there are scores
of other Notre Dame graduates in a variety of govern-
mental posts in Washington, chiefly in the Department of
Justice and the State Department. All of them give not
so mute testimony to the sound consciousness of civic
duty imparted under the “Golden Dome,” where, for
years, the education of “the whole man” has been the
object of successful attention.
15


By EDWARD L. DOYLE
Interior and exterior views of the
MPATI DC6AB transmitting plane.
In the early spring of 1960, Rev. John E. Walsh,
G.S.C., who was then Head of the Department of Educa-
tion, was asked by Father Hesburgh to represent the Uni-
versity at a meeting in Chicago. The meeting was called
by the Ford Foundation to interest Notre Dame and
seventeen other universities and colleges in the Midwest
in a gigantic project which would supply educational
television programs to a potential five million students
in thirteen thousand schools located in a six-state Mid-
western area.
The project was to be called the Midwest Program
on Airborne Television Instruction, abbreviated MPATI.
Father Walsh accepted the invitation to join with
the other institutions in support of MPATI and Notre
Dame became an MPATI resource institution, responsi-
ble for promoting and evaluating the use of airborne
television lessons in fourteen counties of northern Indiana.
At each of the universities and colleges working with
MPATI, there is an Area Coordinator designated to rep-
resent MPATI in an assigned territory near the Uni-
versity. Having had teaching experience as a former
member of the Notre Dame faculty and having a knowl-
edge of television operation in my present capacity as
Program Manager for WNDU-TV, I was asked to serve
as Area Coordinator for Notre Dame. It was a great
pleasure to be able to accept the additional responsibility
and in June, 1960, a contract was signed between MPATI
and Notre Dame, confirming the University’s agreement
to supply an Area Coordinator and other facilities and
talents on campus to promote and evaluate the MPATI
educational television programs.
When the Ford Foundation made their decision to
go ahead with MPATI, the directors of the Foundation
supplied $4,500,000 and called upon private industry to
contribute an additional $3,250,000. The $7,750,000
total has been used to outfit two DC6AB aircraft with
the electronic equipment necessary to transmit on
UHF channels from an altitude of 23,000 feet.
two
With one plane standing by on the ground, the sec-
ond, flying in a figure-eight pattern, telecasts a cur-
riculum of courses on Channels 72 and 76, six hours a
day, Monday through Thursday, to classrooms in Indiana,
Michigan, Illinois, Kentucky, Ohio, and Wisconsin.
Courses are offered on three levels: elementary, high
school, and college. All lessons are recorded on video-
tape.
The chief reason for using an airplane for the tele-
casts is economy. By transmitting from above, the six
states can be serviced at one-third the cost of ground-
based telecasting. If the same program were to be
16 NOTRE DAME
worked out on the ground, fourteen television stations
would have to be constructed and maintained over an
indefinite period of time.
The use of television in the classroom is no stranger
o
to educators. For the past ten years television has been
used and evaluated in six hundred school systems from
coast to coast. Over one million students now receive
instruction by television in elementary and secondary
schools, colleges and universities. Three hundred insti-
tutions of higher learning offer televised courses for
credit. There are now fifty-four educational television
stations on the air and that number will probably reach
sixty by the end of this year.
The fourteen counties assigned to Notre Dame have
responded to the airborne television program enthusi-
astically. At last report, approximately three hundred
schools have reported at least one television set installed
and operating for use by the teachers.
Since the beginning of regular broadcasts, September
11, 1961, the planes have performed with 98% efficiency,
only 2 % of
having transmission or mechanical failure
o
the scheduled flight time.
CAGO
^T. LOUIS
*
The area served by the airborne TV program
is outlined on the above map.
RESOURCE INSTITUTIONS	SCAMS OF MILES 5 2S SO 7S 100
EVANSVILLE
LANSING
DETROIT
CLEVELAND
GTON

Because the program is still labeled “experimental,”
the results of evaluation tests to be made during this
first school year of operation will dictate changes that
must be made for the sake of the classroom teachei' and
the student. The Department of Education here at Notre
Dame will play a large part in assisting MPATI with
evaluation tests.
The long-range plans for MPATI are still to be
worked out. It is hoped, at this writing, that the opera-
tion and financial support for the program will one day
be turned over to the school districts in the six states
served and that the school districts will elect a Board of
Directors to govern the program. Money would be con-
tributed by the school districts depending on the number
of students and schools using the telecasts.
Whatever the decision may be on how to set up the
MPATI project on a permanent basis, the future for
this exciting program seems boundless. Inquiries are re-
ceived regularly from the British Isles, India, Japan, the
Philippine Islands, and other countries of the world who
feel that the success of the MPATI experiment might
be duplicated in their own countries. In the United
States there is talk of the possibility of developing an
airborne television program in other sections of the coun-
try so that all of our teachers and students might have
the advantage of working with television lessons in the
classroom.
I
I
f
At WNDU-TV, we are anxious for the time to come
when it will be feasible to use our facilities to help train
Notre Dame students by means of a closed circuit tele-
vision system. Meanwhile, the University’s association
with the airborne television program is keeping Notre
Dame in touch with the up-to-date developments in
educational television on the ground as well as in the air.
Dr. Robert Strickler, Head of the Department of Edu-
cation, and his fine staff, stand ready to assist MPATI in
evaluating the airborne television lessons and the results
they achieve in the classroom. I will continue to rep-
resent the University as MPATI Area Coordinator from
Notre Dame throughout this academic year and, I must
say that the pleasure is all mine.
T
^^3^
♦
Students at South Bend’s Edison elementary
school receive their airborne TV lesson for the
day on this classroom set. First reports on the
program have been most encouraging.
CREDITS
Paul C. Bartholomew
Rabbi Albert L. Plotkin
William M. Burke
Edward L. (Ted) Doyle is a na-
tive of Trenton, New Jersey, who
received his B.A. degree from Vil-
lanova University in 1950 and his
M.A. in Drama from Catholic Uni-
versity in 1952. He came to Notre
Dame in 1954 as a member of the
Drama Department staff. In 1956
he was named Director of Public
Affairs for WNDU-TV and in 1959,
Program Manager,
o	o
------Notre Dame-------
Dr. Bartholomew is professor of
political science at the University of
Notre Dame. He has been visiting
professor at Northwestern Univer-
sity, Michigan State University, St.
Mary’s College, Loyola University
(Chicago), and the University of
Chicago. He has contributed nu-
merous articles and reviews to legal
and social science journals and is the
author of several books on govern-
ment.
------Notre Dame-------
Rabbi Plotkin received his under-
graduate degree (magna cum laude)
from Notre Dame in 1942. He has
served Temple Beth Israel, Phoenix,
Arizona since 1955. In addition to
numerous religious activities, he has
also distinguished himself for service
in several social and cultural activi-
ties in his community. He is cur-
rently chairman of the Notre Dame
Challenge Program in Phoenix.
------Notre Dame-------
Dr. Burke joined the Notre Dame
faculty in 1949 as assistant pro-
fessor of English and Academic Stu-
dent Advisor. He received his
Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees
from Duke University, and the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania awarded him
a doctorate in 1949. He is a mem-
ber of the Modern Languages Asso-
ciation, the American Association of
University Professors and the Amer-
ican Literature Club.
PHOTOGRAPHS — M. Bruce Harlan, Chief Photog-
rapher, University of Notre Dame; ARTWORK —
A. C. Balmer.
WHAT NOTRE DAME MEANS
(Continued from page 5)
split into many sections and to find no central whole
in unity which will keep him together and bring him
strength.
As Notre Dame lifts its sights to a new era and goes
forth in the drive initiated by the University Foundation
to build a new memorial library, research center, etc., we
must all join hands, whether Protestant, Catholic or Jew,
in loyalty to our Alma Mater to see this great work
through to its completion. Each of us has a part to play
and all of us can by our devotion to truth and our love
of wisdom show the world what can be done. In these
dark days when men are fighting one another in the
Cold War, then it is the moral duty of each of us to
build the sanctuary of the intellect which will fortify us
with that way of life which Notre Dame brings to each
of its graduates. In working together for the building
of a more glorious future for our Alma Mater, we will
fulfill that ancient truth: “How Good and How Pleas-
ant it is for Brethren to Dwell Together in Unity.”
FASCINATING
FORMAT
(Continued from page 13)
course. It might be better for
him to enter a freshman honors
section in, for example, mathe-
matics, or science, or history,
or English, rather than to at-
tempt an upperclass course. His
decision to take an honors fresh-
man course will not nullify the
college credit he has already
been granted in the subject.
Freshmen granted advanced placement should con-
sult during the summer with the Dean of Freshmen over
the important question of the most intelligent use to be
made of advanced placement. The granting of credit
in advanced placement in college is not a matter of aca-
demic bookkeeping. It is a procedure aimed at freeing
the student from certain requirements, so as to enable
him to pursue his interests more closely, to enjoy a wider
choice of electives than the usual, perhaps to enroll in
graduate courses and seminars, and even to reduce in
upper-class years his program of formal courses for the
purpose of more independent study.
Opportunities other than advanced placement exist
at Notre Dame for academic progress rapid beyond the
usual. Every department teaching freshmen has honors
courses or advanced sections to which students are as-
signed or invited according to procedures of freshman
placement already established. The aims of all special
programming are to identify talent, to encourage in-
terests, to prevent repetition, and to provide a structure
in which the individual student can progress at a rate
and in a manner best suited to himself.
18
NOTRE DAME

%


- t
&



I
i v
t

(Continued from page 2)
James A. McCarthy, professor of civil engi-
neering, was recently elected a director of the
National Council of State Boards of Examiners.
He will serve a two-year term representing the
organization’s central zone.
The personal papers of the late Thomas F.
Mahoney, who promoted the social welfare of
migrant Mexican workers in the West, have been
acquired by the University of Notre Dame
Archives, according to Eev. Thomas T. McAvoy,
C.S.C., University archivist.
Dr. San-ichiro Mizushima, former visiting pro-
fessor of chemistry at the University of Notre
Dame from 1951 to 1958, has been appointed by
Pope John XXHI to the Pontifical Academy of
Sciences. He is an authority in the field of
physical chemistry and world renowned for his
research on molecular structure. On November
3, Dr. Mizushima was invested in the order of
“Bunka Kunsho” (Medal of Culture) by the Em-
peror of Japan.
•	Dr. Kenyon S. Tweedell, assistant professor of
biology, attended an invitational symposium on
the “Lucke Renal Adenocarcinoma” at the Na-
tional Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Md.
•	Dr. Stephen Kertesz, professor of political
science at the University of Notre Dame, has
been appointed by The Ford Foundation to the
Soviet and East Europe screening committee of
its Foreign Area Training Fellowship Program.
•	Philip C. Trexler, associate research professor
of bacteriology, lectured on both sides of the
“iron curtain” during a tour sponsored by the
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cul-
tural Organization (UNESCO). Prof. Trexler,
who has conducted germfree animal research at
Notre Dame’s Lobund Laboratories since 1939,
addressed scientific groups in Moscow, Prague,
Warsaw, Milan and Mal, Belgium.
•	Robert E. Lee, a member of the Federal Com-
munications Commission, and three attorneys
specializing in communications law, participated
in a discussion of practice before the FCC at the
Notre Dame Law School on October 28.
•	Dr. Andre Chouraqui, counselor to Prime
Minister Ben-Gurion of Israel, spoke on “The
Integration of Jewish Refugees in Israel” on
October 19 in a talk sponsored by the Universi-
ty’s department of sociology.
•	Daniel J. Osberger, internal auditor at the
University of Notre Dame, was recently elected
president of the national Association of College
and University Auditors for the 1961-62 year.
•	Dr. Charles D. Coryell, professor of chemistry
at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, delivered a series of eight Peter C.
Reilly Lectures on the general subject of
“Nuclear Chemistry” at the University of Notre
Dame from October 30 through November 16.
The tenth annual Supervisory Development
Program of the College of Commerce is operat-
ing under the direction of Salvatore J. Bella,
assistant professor of business organization and
management. It is designed to improve indus-
trial and business supervision in weekly evening
programs with courses in Supervisory Manage-
ment and Organization, Human Relations and
Communications.
The South Bend Tribune Foundation, Inc., has
established a scholarship at the Notre Dame
Law School in memory of the late Aaron H.
Huguenard, South Bend attorney, secretary of
the Tribune, and a member of the Notre Dame
Law School Advisory Council.
The University of Notre Dame Press has just
published volumes by two members of the
school’s English department. Children and Older
Strangers is a collection of poems by Ernest
Sandeen, and Paul McLane is the author of
Spenser’s Shepheardes Calender: A Study in
Elizabethan Allegory.
© The University Theatre at Notre Dame will
present two more productions during the 1961-62
subscription season, according to Rev. Arthur
S. Harvey, C.S.C., director. George Bernard
Shaw’s “Arms and the Man,” is scheduled for
February 8, 9, 10, 15, 16 and 17. Fred W. Sy-
burg will direct. Rogers and Hammerstein’s
“South Pacific,” with Father Harvey directing,
will be presented May 10, 11, 12, 17, 18 and 19.
T. S. Eliot’s “The Cocktail Party,” directed by
Father Harvey, was presented in November.
•	“The History of Chinese Communism: Facts
and Lessons” was the subject of a series of three
public lectures on October 24 and 25 by Dr. Karl
A. Wittfogel, director of the Chinese History Pro-
ject at the University of Washington, Seattle.
•	J. Peter Grace, Jr., New York City, was elected
chairman of the University of Notre Dame’s
Associate Board of Lay Trustees and Bernard J.
Voll, South Bend, Ind., was named vice chairman
at the board’s meeting on campus November 3
and 4.
•	Dr. G. F. d’Alelio, professor of chemistry at the
University of Notre Dame, has been named a
member of the Research Advisory Committee on
Materials of the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration.
•	The Notre Dame student body sent Pope John
XXIH a mammoth spiritual bouquet on his 80th
birthday November 4. Included were 9,341
Masses, 8,818 Holy Communions, 6,641 Rosaries;
and 6,748 visits to the campus Grotto of Our
Lady of Lourdes.
•	Rev. Walter Burghardt, S.J., managing editor
of THEOLOGICAL STUDIES and president of
the Mariological Society of America, gave a lec-
ture on “The Relevance of the Fathers of the
Church” on October 30.
19