
।	PHILIPPSEN ADDRESSES LIBRARIANS
|	John J. Philippsen, head of the acquisitions department
]	at the University of Notre Dame Library, addressed a
vj	state meeting of the Catholic Library Association in Mil-
•!	waukee, Wisconsin. His subject was “Acquisitions Work:
. ।	Balance between Business and Bookmanship.”
. {	THREE SCIENTISTS SPEAK
. ,	Three University of Notre Dame scientists delivered
lectures at other institutions in mid-October. Dr. Ernest
U	Eliel, professor of Chemistry, participated in a collo-
■	quium at the University of Kansas. Lawrence: Dr. John
}	L. Magee, professor of Chemistry and acting director of
J	the Notre Dame Computing Center, lectured on the
’	Edmonton and Calgary campuses of	the University of
• i	Alberta: and Dr. Robert McIntosh,	associate professor
!	of Biologv, gave an address at the	dedication of the
■ ;	prairie research area of the University of Wisconsin
Arboretum, Madison.
MAGNAVOX GIVES EQUIPMENT
Laboratory equipment valued at more than $4,000
has been presented to the University of Notre Dame by
The Magnavox Company. Fort Wayne. Indiana. Dean
Norman R. Gay of the College of Engineering said the
Magnavox gift included several oscilloscopes, oscillators
and other measuring and test equipment which will be
used in the department of Electrical Engineering.
KERTESZ DISCUSSES “DIVIDED WORLD”
Dr. Stephen Kertesz, professor of Political Science and
head of the Committee on International Relations at
>	Notre Dame, recently delivered a public lecture on “The
Divided World.” Professor Kertesz, a former Hungarian
minister to Italy, is the author of the new book, East
Central Europe and the World: Developments in the
Post-Stalin Era.
BIOLOGY PROFS BUSY
Four faculty members in the department of Biology
delivered lectures and participated in professional meet-
ings during October and November. Dr. Ralph E. Thor-
son. head of the department, was at an International
Panel Workshop on Immunodiagnosis of Helminth In-
fections at the University of Maryland, November 19-21.
Dr. Morris Pollard, professor of Biology and director
of the department’s Lobund Laboratory, addressed re-
search scientists of the Eli Lilly and Co., Indianapolis
pharmaceutical firm, on October 30. His subject was
“Problems in Experimental Pathology of Germfree
Animals.” Rev. Cletus S. Bachofer, C.S.C., professor of
Biology, delivered two lectures and consulted with
scientists at St. Catherine’s College, St. Paul, Minn.,
October 24-26. Brother Raphael Wilson, C.S.C., assistant
professor of Biology, attended a conference on the
thymus held Oct. 21-24 at the University of Minnesota
under the auspices of the National Research Council’s
Division of Medical Sciences.
SWISS PRELATE HERE
Rev. I. M. Bochenski, O.P., director of the Institute
of East-European Studies at the University of Fribourg
in Switzerland, spoke on “Soviet and Western Philosophy:
Present State and Prospects for the Future,” in a talk
sponsored by the Natural Law Forum, a Notre Dame
Law School publication.
FORD GIVES AUTO PARTS
Automotive equipment valued at more than $560 was
presented to the University of Notre Dame recently by
the Ford Motor Company. The equipment included a
Ford Falcon six-cylinder engine and a standard trans-
mission which will be used for instructional purposes in
the University’s Mechanical Engineering department.
BERGIN SPEAKS TO REALTORS
Dr. Thomas P. Bergin, Jesse H. Jones Professor of
Business Administration, recently addressed the National
Association of Industrial Realtors in Atlantic City, N. J.
BRODERICK IN DUAL ROLE
John J. Broderick, Jr., assistant dean of the Notre
Dame Law School, will serve on two committees of the
Association of American Law Schools during 1963. He
has been appointed to the organization’s Committee on
Pre-Legal Education and to the Committee on Teaching
Law Outside the Law School.
JUSTICE WHITE PRESIDES
Supreme Court Justice Byron R. White and two
other federal judges presided at the final round of the
Notre Dame Law School’s 13th annual Moot Court Com-
petition on November 17. Sharing the bench with Justice
White were Judge Richard T. Rives of the U. S. Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, New Orleans, La., and
Judge George N. Beamer of the U. S. District Court for
the Northern District of Indiana at Hammond. The
four senior law students who presented written briefs
and oral arguments to the jurists during the event were
Thomas E. Brannigan, Chicago, Ill.; James Lekin, Des
Moines, Iowa; Patrick G. Cullen, Baltimore, Md.; and
Robert J. Noe, Rock Island, Ill.
(Continued on page 19)
• EDITOR: JOHN H. JANOWSKI
NOTRE DAME VOL. 15, No. 4, WINTER, 1962
Published quarterly by the University of Notre
Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second
class matter May 10, 1928, at Post Office at Notre
Dame, Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.
2 NOTRE DAME


V?T

Much has been said and written about the importance
of science in our world today. Many speak of science as
something which has just come into existence. Actually,
the progress of science has been under way for several
thousand years, beginning extremely slowly and rising to
the ever-increasing pace we have at present. In geometric
terms, we can say that we are now on the steep rise of
the curve. It is a far cry from the sixth century before
Christ, when the Grecian Philosopher Thales made what
appears to be the first really scientific contribution when
he correctly predicted the time of an eclipse of the sun, to
the astonishing feats being performed today in the science
and exploration of outer space.
An enormous change has come about in the status of
science in our country in the past quarter of a century.
Not only has there been an astounding alteration in the
public understanding of, and attitude toward, science, but
by Dr. Frederick D. Rossini
Dean
College of Science
University of Notre Dame
3
An inertial balance experiment in a Notre
Dame Physics lab is performed by (I. to r.)
Graham Govani, Winchester, Mass.; Bob
Puryear, Jonesboro, Ark.; and Jack Lipovski,
Creston, British Columbia.
there has been a very large increase in the percentage of
our population engaged in scientific pursuits. In 1962,
nearly six thousand persons received doctor’s degrees in
the sciences in the United States, an increase of about 50
percent over the past ten years.
MAN’S KNOWLEDGE INCREASES
In the early days of civilization, man’s efforts were de-
voted largely to the provision of food and shelter for him-
self and his people. As man’s knowledge of the world in-
creased, he began to master part of his environment and
to provide the necessities of life more easily than before.
Then as more knowledge was acquired, time became avail-
able for study and examination of Nature. With increas-
ing knowledge, man became more and more able to make
various devices co increase his capabilities. Within the
past two centuries, the basic knowledge of science has been
applied to the harnessing of the forces of Nature, to pro-
vide comfort and welfare for man, and to supply energy
for his work needs. Scientific discoveries were put to use-
ful purpose in industrial applications, and the machine
age came upon us.
With the increasing development of machines, our so-
ciety was able to support more men with more time for
the study and examination of Nature. With more ap-
plications of scientific findings, we are now able to devise
machines to control machines, and are entering the age
of automation. Thus we can free still more men for more
study and examination of the natural world and the laws
which govern it. Problems are being tackled and solved
which go far beyond our previous experiences. Man’s
capabilities are being challenged on all sides. Scientific
research is becoming a byword.
Our great advances in the medical and health sciences
have served to more than double man’s life expectancy in
this century. Thus, not only does a man in a given year
have more time for free use, but he also has many more
years of fife with the free time at his disposal.
One of the important social and economic problems of
our country is the proper use of the free time being made
available to men through the shorter work week. To
operate our fully automated machines, our workers must
have higher and higher intellectual capabilities. To achieve
these higher intellectual capabilities, our society must
create an atmosphere which encourages in every person
4 NOTRE DAME
the desire to improve and increase his knowledge, not only
for the needs associated with his work, but also for the
general uplift of his cultural status. In this way, all men
can continue to be useful contributors to the productivity
of our country and to have a sense of fruitful participa-
tion in the affairs of our society. Facilities and programs
for the continued education and training of our people
must be provided in whatever ways are appropriate for
our country. Our colleges should have a significant role
to play in these developments, particularly as regards the
education of the teachers who will provide the instruction.
A related problem of great importance to our country
is that of helping those professional persons who completed
their formal education five or ten or more years ago and
who have not kept abreast of the new knowledge gener-
ated in their fields. On this problem, our colleges and
universities can together provide means for restoring these
professional persons to increased usefulness and produc-
tivity by helping them get up to date in their disciplines.
Where such persons are employed in the industries of our
country, the cooperation of industry will be necessary to
shoulder the costs of such restoration. In the great drive
to have our country possess greater capabilities in science,
we should try to preserve and restore the rusty capa-
bilities already resident in our older people as well as to
create new capabilities in science in our young people.
In the early days, there was little science and there
were few scientists. Today, science is all about us, and
touches everyone in his daily living. Non-scientists now
know more things about science than our foremost sci-
entists knew a century ago. Through newspapers, maga-
zines, radio, and television, our people today obtain knowl-
edge of science that was possessed by no human person
not too many years ago.
There is today a public awareness of the great im-
portance of science for the security, health, and economic
well-being of our people. Every person should under-
stand what science is and what it can do. Increasing
public understanding of science adds to the strength and
quality of the scientific posture of our country. Science
has become so intimately and irretrievably connected with
the social and political structure of our society, that few
national decisions of government can now be made with-
out sound scientific considerations.
FOSTER HIGH VALUES
We have the duty of properly preparing our young
men and women to go out and assume their place in the
world. In this endeavor, we must dedicate ourselves to
fostering high mental and spiritual values in the minds of
our young people. We must see that all persons particu-
ularly gifted with special capabilities have opportunity for
their full development. We must provide a way for every
person to develop his God-given talents to the highest
possible level.
The greatest wealth of any country is in the minds of
its citizens. Development in our people of high intellect-
ual capabilities, on a solid base of proper moral qualities,
will provide for us a continuing leadership among the
peoples of the world.
The basic purpose of science is to learn about and
touches everyone in his daily living. Nonscientists now
understand everything that God has made, including man,
all living animals and plants, and all the physical world
comprehended by us, here on earth and far out into space.
There is nothing mysterious about science. A scientist is
simply searching to discover what God hath wrought. Any
person who takes time from his regular work for serious
study and examination of any part of our natural world
is an amateur scientist.
A true scientist is marked by his spirit of dedication to
the discovery and service of truth. He has a driving
curiosity about the unknown. As he probes ahead, he
discovers the work of an all-wise God in the great har-
mony of figures, formulas, and scientific laws.
A true scientist also has some understanding and ap-
preciation of the work and problems in other areas of
human endeavor. He must also understand and ap-
preciate his obligations to his fellow men under the natural
law of God.
The opportunities in science for qualified young people
today are truly without limit. There are no bounds. The
scientist is confined only by his own imagination and Tiis
creative ability. No one is making any pessimistic pre-
dictions like the one made by a prominent physicist at the
beginning of this century, when he said that there was
nothing left to do in physics—everything had been dis-
covered. Or like the statement made about the same time
by another man who looked at the great pile of United
States patents and said there was nothing left to invent —
everything had been invented. It is at times like these
that one can expect everything to break wide open, with
discoveries and inventions coming in all directions.
Science needs persons, both men and women, of differ-
ent qualities: questioners, problem solvers, builders, help-
ers, writers, investigators, and advisors. The kind of
During a recent meeting of the
International Atomic Energy Agency
in Vienna, Father Hesburgh visited with
Dr. Hyung Sup Choi (left), director of the
Atomic Energy Research Institute, Seoul,
Korea, who obtained a Master’s degree in
Metallurgy from Notre Dame in 1956.
The other delegates pictured (I. to r.) are:
Frank M. Folsom and Father Hesburgh
representing Vatican City, and the
Korean ambassador to the IAEA.
person who should consider a career in science is one who
has some appropriate combination of the following quali-
ties: a real interest in some phase of science, a good
curiosity about things, the ability to develop enthusiasm
in a project, some good patience, an orderly mind, and
an alertness for clues.
Today, scientists are being clamored for by every
industry, by every government laboratory, and by every
college and university. The more capable the scientist
the much more sought after he is.
o
AN IMPORTANT FUNCTION
One of the important functions of our undergraduate
colleges is to provide the undergraduate education for the
students who are to enter doctoral programs of study in
the universities. In this work, our colleges have done a
superb job for many years. Today, the challenge is greater
than ever before, for two reasons: first, the total number
of students going on into graduate work in all fields is
increasing greatly; second, the percentage of these stu-
dents who are going into graduate work in the sciences is
increasing greatly. Currently, the total number of gradu-
ate students in the sciences and engineering in the United
States is near two hundred thousand, and this number is
increasing at a rate near ten percent per year. This means
that our colleges are now sending forth each year about
one hundred thousand of their bachelor’s graduates into
the universities for graduate study. This number will
increase steadily in the years ahead.
The proper intellectual development of the people of
our country requires a balance of knowledge. This balance
of knowledge must be achieved on a broad basis by having
in our society experts in all fields, as in music, drama, art,
letters, law, medicine, business, engineering, and science.
At the same time, the balance of knowledge must be

’’	achieved also on an	individual basis by having each
!	person possessed of a	general and appreciative under-
' «	standing of areas of knowledge other than that in which
i	he is expert. That is	to say, for example, the cultured
person who is an expert in a field of the humanities must
have some knowledge and understanding of science. Simi-
larly, the cultured person who is an expert in one of the
sciences must have some knowledge and appreciation not
'	only of the other sciences but also of the arts and letters
•	and music and drama.
,	Along with this intellectual development, the truly edu-
cated person today must have well-developed moral and
spiritual values, coupled with a strong sense of respon-
|	sibility to his fellow men. Since many of the new develop-
ments to come in our world will stem from scientific dis-
j	coveries, we need as leaders men who will be able to
manage the affairs of our society wisely and see that the
{	fruits of our scientific work are distributed equitably in
j	a way that will help all the peoples of the world. Our
I	scientists must be able to work hand in hand with scholars
!	of other fields, with adequate communication and under-
standing on both sides.
■ i	Within the structure of our educational system, the
1	place where the final broad education of a scientist can
J	best be provided is in the undergraduate college. Ideally,
j	the prospective young scientist should take courses in the
,	humanities, courses in the fundamentals of the basic sci-
Paul Shuff, Cincinnati, Ohio, makes a long stretch during
.	a Chemistry lab session in the Nieuwland Science Building.
ences, and courses in the advanced phases of his selected
science. In all these courses, emphasis must be placed on
the fundamental principles, else the student will never be
able to master the rapidly growing broad expanse of
knowledge. Masses of particular facts and data can
always better be looked up in books at the time of need.
Competency in the knowledge and application of the
fundamental principles is what leads to new discoveries
and inventions of things not learned about in books.
All of our instruction must be arranged in such a way
as to inculcate in each student a real desire to continue
learning throughout his entire lifetime. We must aim
toward a disciplined intelligence.
In this educational process, the student should acquire
a thorough, integrated, and broad understanding of the
fundamental knowledge of his science. He should acquire
competence in analytical thinking, and the ability to reach
sound conclusions. He should acquire the capacity to
communicate ideas to others, both orally and in writing,
to provide full and adequate expression of his professional
and personal powers. He should acquire the ability to
learn for himself as a scholar, and to keep abreast of the
ever-changing knowledge and problems of his profession.
CURRICULA REVISION NECESSARY
One of the important tasks facing our undergraduate
colleges today is the careful and considered revision of the
several curricula in the sciences to take cognizance of the
great expansion of our scientific knowledge. This mush-
rooming of knowledge has resulted in the pushing down
into the upper division courses at the undergraduate level
of material formerly given in the first year or two of
graduate studies. Similarly, much material formerly given
in the first year or two of college studies is being pushed
down into the secondary schools. And of course, ma-
terial formerly given in the first year or two of high
school must be put into the last years of grade school.
For example, consider the field of mathematics. Many
mathematicians predict that in not too many years all
calculus will be taught in the high schools, so that students
in college can begin immediately with the higher level
courses in mathematics. This pushing down of mathe-
matics courses to earlier years of the educational process
means that eventually college undergraduate courses in
mathematics will be the same as the university graduate
courses of today. During this transition, which will not
have the same time schedule in the colleges and the high
schools, many problems will arise which will require wise
solution in order not to discourage learning among the
O	O	O
students.
Along with the education directed to the humanities
and the sciences, our Catholic institutions have the
further responsibility of instructing our students in a
full appreciation of the natural law of God and its
guidance in every event of their daily lives.
With such a background, our baccalaureate science
graduates will be well prepared to proceed into doctoral
programs in science in the universities. In addition to
their basic education in the sciences, these graduates will
be well fortified with the understanding that man’s noble
gifts are reverence, love, intelligence, moderation, and
tolerance, that great thoughts come from the heart, that
truth is the strongest argument, and that man’s great
achievements are the fruit of deep faith, keen thought,
and devoted labor.

Notre Dame Alumni and Friends:
u
I n
tm
istmas is family time, so I thought
Id use my few words this month to
mething about the “Notre Dame
a phrase that comes often to
lips and is very much in my heart.
11
Dame is, of course, many things
being primarily a university. One
□f spirit, and this leads to football,
then back to four wonderful years
lere. To many who didn’t have
lllllh
<
pent
,ue
four years, the words “Notre
bring up many other associations
of friendship, pride and joy. However,
at this season of the year that is wintry
and cold for many of us, but filled with
human warmth and affection, I like to
think most of Notre Dame as a family.
It certainly is a large family, with over
30,000 alumni and many times more
that number of friends and associates.
These, too, come to us in a family way,
because a large bulk of this larger family
is made up of parents of students and
alumni, their brothers and sisters, and
old friends of many years standing who
have taken Notre Dame to their hearts.
All of this family does so very much
for the University that I like to think
at times of what we can do for you.
There is, of course, the special Mass
said here every day of the year for all
of our faculty, students, alumni, friends
and benefactors. Several times a week
when Father Joyce and I do not have
a special intention, we offer Mass for
all of you and for the University that
draws all of us together. Then, too, I
like to believe with great hope that Notre
Dame means to all of you a growing
dynamic reality in America, and that
all of you can feel with pride that you
are growing with us.
The seasons come and go, our athletic
fortunes rise and fall, new students enter
and graduate by the thousands, buildings
seem to multiply like rabbits, and na-
tional academic honors even more rapid-
ly, but beneath all of this change there
is the living and changeless benediction
upon all that transpires beneath the
Golden Dome, blessed as all of us are
by the smile of Our Lady.
I hope that this permanent reality of
Our Lady’s blessing and Her Son’s kind
Providence draws all of us closer together
at Christmas time, united in this great
reality that all of us have been blessed
to share. The word most commonly seen
in the liturgy at Christmas time is “peace”
and perhaps that best describes the at-
mosphere that seems to enfold this cam-
pus in Spring and Summer, Autumn and
Winter, through sunshine and snow, light
and shadow, there is a permanence to
the real values that all of us have
cherished here. The University commu-
nity gives as best it can, and receives
far more than it deserves of your own
true loyalty, boundless generosity, and
constant dedication. And as we are
strengthened by your strength, I do hope
that a very real benediction goes out
from this place into all of your lives,
to gladden your homes, to warm your
hearts, to uphold your values, and to
bring all of you, especially at Christmas
time, the peace and benediction of
Christ Child held in the arms of
dear Mother, our own Notre Dame.
Christmas began with a family,
the
His
and
without that family there never would
have been a Notre Dame to love and
cherish, both as a person and as an
institution. May all of your families en-
joy during this Christmas time the peace
and family joy that stretches across the
years from Bethlehem, and may the New
Year bring all of you continued blessings.
Ever devotedly yours in Notre Dame,

^IhnllorvA.rl Collectors
Are you an Art Collector? If so, please get in touch with
us soon.
The Notre Dame University Art Gallery is planning a full-
scale Exhibition of paintings and sculpture which will be
selected exclusively from the art collections of Notre Dame
Alumni. We would like to borrow these art works for a
period of five weeks.
We ask that all art collectors please drop us a short note,
telling us the titles of their paintings, etc., and the name of
the artists who painted them. If a work is very big, better
mention the size too!
Please write us soon. We shall need all information for this
Exhibition by January 1, 1963, but please feel free to write
sooner — even today — if you can.
Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C.
Director, the Art Gallery
Notre Dame, Indiana
FACULTY ADDITIONS NUMBER 54
The appointment of 54 new University of Notre Dame
faculty and research staff members for the 1962-63 school
year was announced by Rev. Charles A. Soleta, G.S.C.,
vice president for academic affairs.
Among the newcomers are Peter Ludwig and Donald
B. Peterson who joined the Radiation Laboratory staff
with the rank of Research Scientist.
Timothy O. O’Meara, formerly of Princeton Univer-
sity, has been named a professor of Mathematics at Notre
Dame, and Peter J. Roquette, of the University of Tu-
bingen, Germany, who will serve as a visiting professor
of Mathematics during the fall semester.
Dr. Thomas S. C. Wang, of the Taiwan Sugar Ex-
periment Station on Formosa, will serve as a guest pro-
fessor in the departments of Biology and Chemistry
through the month of December.
An Australian scholar, Robert G. Boyd, will serve as
a visiting associate professor of Political Science at Notre
Dame during the coming year. Other newly appointed
associate professors are Anthony H. P. Skelland in Chem-
ical Engineering and Theodore J. Starr in Biology.
The rank of Assistant Professor has been assigned to
26 new Notre Dame faculty members. They are Gapt.
Dominic T. Arcuri and Capt. John H. Davis, Jr., Military
Science; Leo V. Auth, Jr., Norman F. Krohn, Harry G.
Lafuse, and James L. Massey, Electrical Engineering;
Russell G. Bowers, Guidance and Testing; Rev. Augustine
Chang, Ronald J. Downey, and Karamjit S. Rai, Biology;
William P. Cole, Music; Henryk Fast, Julian Musielak,
Sudarshan K. Sehgal, and James D. Stasheff, Mathe-
matics; and Lt. Peter A. Hutchinson, Naval Science.
Other newly appointed assistant professors include
Thomas F. Kilroy, English; Iwan Koropeckyj and A.
Peter Walshe, Economics; Rev. Howard Kuhns, C.S.C.,
History; James M. Lee, Education; Carl R. Nelson, Jr.,
Architecture; Samuel R. Reid, Finance; David L. Spon-
seller, Metallurgical Engineering; Albin A. Szewczyk,
Mechanical Engineering; and Joseph B. Tamney, Soci-
ology.
Joining the Notre Dame faculty as instructors are
Alex J. Cameron, Rev. Harry B. Eichorn, C.S.C., John
E. Healey, and Vincent Tartella, English; James C. Dun-
lap and John E. Kennedy, Business Organization and
Management; John Gueguen, Political Science; C. Lloyd
Halliburton, Roman A. McClatcher, Jr., and Carmeo
Virgilio, Modern Languages; Guido Kung, Robert S.
Turley, and Rev. Charles S. Weiher, C.S.C., Philosophy;
Rev. Roland Stair, G.S.C., Theology; Rev. William J.
Neidhart, C.S.C., Accountancy; Paul Chen Ching-yu,
Mechanical Engineering; Joseph Turkalj. Art; and Rev.
Xavier Harris, O.F.M., Education; Eldon Ruff will serve
as a lecturer in Education.
1962-63 ENROLLMENT SETS RECORD
Enrollment at Notre Dame for the 1962-63 school
year has reached an all-time high of 6,735 students,
according to official figures published by the Office of
Academic Affairs. This compares to 6,609 in 1961-62
and 6,467 for 1960-61. The 1962 totals include 5,706
undergraduates, 146 in the Law School, 667 regular
graduate students, and 216 graduate students attending
night classes in the colleges of Arts and Letters, Science
and Engineering.
DEAN CULLITON NAMED U.S. TARIFF COMMISSIONER
Dean James W. Gulliton of the University of Notre
Dame College of Business Administration was appointed
by President Kennedy as a member of the U. S. Tariff
Commission. Culliton resigned his Notre Dame post on
December 1, to accept the six-year federal appointment
in Washington,
o
The six-member U.S. Tariff Commission administers
James W. Culliton
Thomas T. Murphy
the tariff laws, makes investigations and furnishes in-
formation on tariff matters to the President and to the
Congress.
From time-to-time it holds hearings when business or
industries claim they are being adversely affected by tariff
legislation. Members of the Commission receive a salary
of $20,000 a year.
Professor Thomas T. Murphy was named Acting
Dean of the College of Business Administration, succeed-
ing Dr. Culliton who served as Dean since 1955.
o
■l

9
J*
STAFF PLAN
O’Brien
by Joseph F
X <
>
RETIREES
OF UNIVERSITY’S
Personnel Director
University of Notre Dame
For a number of years the adminstrative officeis of the
University had given careful consideration and study to
the adoption of a pension plan that would help staff em-
ployees attain a measure of security and financial inde-
pendendence after they retired from active service on
*	campus. Up until a year ago, this expensive employment
।	fringe benefit was simply out of the question since the
operating budget was being stretched to its limits by the
demands of a growing campus with expanding services.
It was recognized that a retirement plan for staff
employees had to be placed high on the list of vital cam-
I	pus needs outlined under the University’s $18,000,000
■	Challenge Program. The faculty retirement plan had
*	been in force since 1947 while over 1,300 clerical, tech-
’	nical and service employees were not covered under any
|	form of annuity other than that provided by Social Secur-
ity. However, in July 1961 the University decided that
such protection had to be provided and launched the
present plan even before the Challenge Program got into
. j	full swing.
With the assistance of a professional actuarial and
legal firm, the University designed a self-administered
and self-funded plan whereby staff employees are able to
enjoy retirement benefits that vary according to length
\	of service and basic annual earnings. The plan is non-
contributory except for administrative personnel. A fund
was started with deposits from the operating budget in
July of 1961 and to date this fund is in excess of $500,000.
Arrangements were made to retain the actuarial and legal
services so that annual evaluations of the plan will be
made and thus assure greater protection for both the
participants and the University. It has been estimated
that a fund of over a million dollars will be required to
cover the future liabilities under the plan.
The first retirees under the plan left active service on
July 1, 1962 and at present ten retirees are receiving
retirement income checks from the University. It is ex-
pected that twenty more employees will be retired by the
end of this academic year. Since many of the alumni
would recall some of the retirees, a brief look at those
retired is presented below:	v
JOSEPH CHROBOT, well-known and well-liked by j
his many friends on campus, retired after 32 years of	n
service as a watchman and messenger in our South	'I
Dining Hall.
SUSAN COMSTOCK, hired on September 15, 1931
as a maid, retired recently and her ready smile will be
missed around Badin Hall. She also worked in St. Ed-
ward’s and Howard Halls. Mr. and Mrs. Comstock, both
now retired, will remain at home close to the campus.
CLAUDE CULP, “Dutch” to his friends, is going to
catch up on some good fishing in his retirement after 24
years of service to the University as a plumber. “Dutch”
served as Foreman of the Plumbing Shop for a number
of years.
10 NOTRE DAME
I

DAVE FORD, former Director of Food Services, and
a key figure in University business enterprises, retired Sep-
tember 1, 1962 after 19 years of service. Dave plans to
continue in his field as a professional consultant.
GUY FRILOW’s future plans were indefinite as he
retired on October 1, 1962. Guy came to Notre Dame on
October 3, 1940 and worked in Genet al Maintenance as
a truck driver.
BILL HORGAN packed his bags for another trip to
Ireland on his retirement after over 35 years as a painter
at the University. Bill’s plans for retirement include more
travel now that his wife, Marguerite, has retired from the
General Accounting Office.
CASPER HERMA retired in July from the Tailor
Shop having started there on March 4, 1936 as a skilled
journeyman in his trade.
ROCCO TUTINO, a cook in the South Dining Hall
for 31 years, is planning to remain at home and tend to
his rather large and productive garden.
Her many friends wished LAURA STUTZ a long and
happy retirement at a luncheon after her 32 years of serv-
ice as a bookkeeper in the South Dining Hall. A long
rest, then a planned trip are on Laura’s mind now that
she has retired.
Few people gained more friends in th eh normal work-
ing lives than JOE WAGENHOFER did in his. Joe, who
retired as a maintenance man in the South Dining Hall
after 31 years, has just returned from a trip to Germany.
Joe is remaining active with his custom carpentry service
at home.
It is apparent on campus that the Retirement Income
Plan for Staff Employees is the most welcomed form of
compensation or benefit ever offered by the University.
Being able to offer this plan has been a source of great
satisfaction and pride to the University administration.
The plan enables Notre Dame to express its appreciation
and recognition of loyal staff service that has been an im-
portant factor in the University’s successful operation. In
addition to this, the plan will assist in retaining experi-
enced employees and in attracting capable new employees
to the University, together with the tremendous lift to em-
ployee morale it has already produced.
11


^s«*



t



SHSw

R


M

1 ■
&
KU

■ **
(■”>* t
M

L*sr
.
*
Wf

4>

£.
i
t
1
* •


1
E

t
a

’U'
1x



Jsi w
>?3
as
The author (second from the right),
fessor of Modern Languages at the
is an
assistant pro-
University of Notre
Dame. He is pictured here with other U.S. professors
before the Brandenburg Gate in East Berlin.
by John A. ter Haar
One day last May, I received an exciting long-dis-
tance call from Dr. Dencker, the German Consul in De-
troit, who informed me that I had been selected to repre-
sent the University of Notre Dame along with eleven
other Germanisten from various American universities
throughout the country. I felt that it was a signal honor
to Notre Dame to have been invited to undertake an all-
expense-paid study trip through Germany as a guest of
the German Federal Government. It all added up to
the perfect journey abroad for a college professor teaching
German whose pocketbook rarely permits of a junket
abroad, let alone one replete with first-class travel and
hotel accommodations. At any rate, Notre Dame and its
dynamic growth must have favorably impressed Dr.
Dencker, if we may also judge from the generous way
in which our teaching German language and literature
has been supported by the Consulate in Detroit with
books and records.
Upon arrival in Frankfurt, after a speedy Lufthansa
jet flight, it soon became clear that, on this government-
sponsored tour, many doors were open which would have
been closed to us otherwise, had we traveled as individual
tourists. In each city and cultural center, receptions were
arranged at which the group became acquainted with
prominent personalities in government and academic
circles. There was ample evidence to substantiate the
theory that federal government in Germany is not exact-
ly the (un) necessary evil it is often considered to be in
the United States, but commands a great deal more
respect.
As the programs indicated, our study trip would
largely concentrate on urban Germany from which the
new postwar spirit has emanated. A German philosopher
once said that all good and evil in the realm of man
has found its fulfillment in the city. As if to prove this
point, our tour centered around the German civitas with
their universities, institutes for scholarly research, libraries,
publishing houses, museums, churches, and theatres. All
in all, it was a definite deviation from the Germany of
the romantic tourist posters with their castle-crowned,
vineyard-covered slopes along the Rhine, or their Alpine
scenery steeped in sun-drenched beauty.
Among the legion impressions rushing in upon the
American visitor, who has just escaped from his own
technocracy, the omnipresent economic and technical
prosperity is perhaps the most striking. Wherever one
goes, one is faced with a Europe on the move, individually
or in groups, and by every imaginable means of transpor-
tation. The countryfolk were coming to the cities in
droves, whereas the townspeople sought peace and quiet
in the once-quiet countryside. Even in remote places,
one can hear different languages spoken, and not all of
them are European. Indeed, it is sometimes difficult to
escape the impression that Western Europe has turned
into a huge open-air museum not only to culture seekers
from across the ocean, but also to its own population.
There is little doubt that, in the throngs which come
trooping through the museums and the great cathedrals,
we are faced with a humanity set adrift by the abundant
material blessings of the machine age. Their interests
betray a longing for permanence, for ultimate spiritual
values, which our modern way of life no longer seems
to provide.
In terms of progressive mechanization and methods
of merchandizing, Western Europe, and Germany in
particular, is rapidly catching up with the United
States, a process which the older, less adaptable genera-
tion, disapprovingly refers to as “Americanization.” Al-
though the term as such implies a somewhat unjust
accusation, it is true that this development has brought
in its wake a host of questionable phenomena, the most
ominous of which is perhaps the decline of the family.
With working wives making up a whopping one-third
12
NOTRE DAME
of the entire labor force, it may be safe to assume that
the traditional Hausfrau is rapidly becoming a thing of
the past. Farewell to the days when her life was gov-
erned by the four capital K’s of tradition: Kirche, Kiiche,
Kinder, Kleider!
Politically speaking, the five-day visit to West and
East Berlin stands out as the most impressive experience
of the journey. The contrasts between a booming West,
bustling with vitality, and the depressed social and eco-
nomic status of the Communist half of the city are
conspicuous enough. However, truly agonizing is the
sight of Ulbricht’s concentration camp sealed off from
the free world by its “Wall of Shame.” The anguished
impression from the outside was further substantiated by
a visit behind the Wall where the very name Karl Marx
Allee (the former Stalin Allee) is evidence of the
dialectic nature of truth which is contingent upon Com-
munist party exigencies. The Communist travesty of
freedom manifests itself in that East Berliners, in con-
versations with strangers whom they think trustworthy,
can only dare to express their convictions by ironically
quoting the official party line, thus attempting to let the
truth transpire through a known lie.
A couple of years ago a poll, con-
ducted in Germany to determine the
most popular figure in society, revealed
the university professor as heading the
list. This was, indeed, a clear indication
of the considerable respect commanded
by the academic world. Therefore, it
was no coincidence that visits to prac-
tically every major university were
scheduled. Many stimulating contacts
were established here with faculty and
students alike. Particularly striking is
the untraditional degree of frankness
with which students, and young people
in general, express their opinions on
current problems, social as well as
political. They do so with a disregard
for traditional authority that is both
refreshing and alarming, so that it
would seem that liberal trends have become perma-
nently established. However, one observation must be
made here that gives cause for concern, namely, the rather
widely spread disdain for politics on the part of the
majority of the best young minds. In keeping with the
time-honored tradition of the idealist intellectual, whose
scholarly pursuits isolate him in an ivoiy-tower existence,
involvement in politics is all too often felt to be in bad
taste, an attitude which the British, as inveterate middle-
of-the-roaders, would certainly look upon as a symptom
of political immaturity.
On the other hand, the atmosphere of the German
university is one of maturity that promotes true academic
freedom. It harks back to great traditions, operates in
a physical milieu reflecting many aspects of past cultural
ages, and with a pace of life which affords depth in
independent study, as well as the opportunity to digest
and synthesize thought. Involuntarily comparisons with
conditions back home presented themselves and with
them the conclusion that the grass beyond our own
Notre Dame fence had looked in some respects greener
than it actually was. Needless to say, the exhilarating
delights associated with the fall football week ends are
conspicuous by their absence. Furthermore, there exists an
acute shortage of physical plant and the faculty-student
ratio is rather unfavorable. Seminars with fifty to two
hundred students are hardly worthy of the name. One
also hears frequent professorial complaints about the
steadily increasing administrative burden which detracts
from the available time for research and study. The
prosperity of the well-organized welfare state has re-
sulted in the absence of the peripheral characters ever
present in American society. However, this development
has also presented the medical schools with a shortage
of cadavers. Though theoretically very well equipped,
medical-school graduates have been known to begin
their internship without knowing how to treat a badly
cut finger. Due to the compounding of these and many
other problems, the German academic system is cur-
rently going through a period of crisis. And it is, as yet,
impossible to predict how this crisis will be resolved.
The President’s Page in the Notre Dame fall issue
annually reports Father Hesburgh’s latest summer ex-
plorations abroad. These letters never fail to reflect
gratefully the abiding loyalty to Notre Dame found in
the hearts of men in faraway lands who
were, or still are, associated with the
University. That Notre Dame is a name
that has come to mean many things
to many people in many lands is a fact
substantiated time and again while I
was traveling through Germany and
Austria. While visiting Bonn I chanced
to meet two Notre Dame students, one
of whom I had had in class. At a
reception given by the German State
Department, Notre Dame’s Review of
Politics, edited by Professor Fitzsimons,
received very high praise from a
high State Department official. At a
dinner given by the University of
Hamburg, I made the acquaintance of
Professor Fischer who formerly taught
Political Science here and indulged
in some pleasant reminiscing about
his Notre Dame experiences. In Munich, by pure co-
incidence, I came upon my colleague from the Depart-
ment of Chemistry, Professor Danehy, and his daughter.
Berlin and Frankfurt were the scenes of meetings with
two of our former teaching assistants in German. Lastly,
I interrupted my week’s sojourn in Vienna by traveling
to Linz and from there up the beautiful valley of the
Danube to the Cistercian monastery of Withering, in
order to call on Father Gerhard Winkler who received
his M.A. degree in English from Notre Dame.
Thus, Notre Dame remained an ever-present reality
in a very personal sense. Every one of these memorable
meetings symbolizes the ever shrinking dimensions of our
planet which, in time, must lead to a progressive uni-
versalization of mankind. During this culturally enrich-
ing journey through Germany, Switzerland, Austria, and
my native Holland, I became aware once again of the
increasingly valuable role languages play in the promo-
tion of mutual understanding among the Free World
Nations. Last summer’s experiences have proved once
again that languages are the gateway to the minds and
the hearts of men.
13


H
Big
uestion
CA

Nationwide Survey ase
Takes a
WHAT'S W
OLIC SCHOOLS?
* '	■< ’ O’.X A \	'- ** s « Z‘	~	»< * * :	: * * x	*
otre Dame
rd Look at a
by Dr. William H. Conley
Director of Study
on leave as Educational Assistant to President, Mar-
quette University, Milwaukee. Former President,
College and University Department, NCEA. Pres-
ently Member Executive Board NCEA. Editor,
Catholic School Journal, Editor, Official Guide to
Catholic Educational Institutions.
Do you know the magnitude of Catholic elementary
and secondary education? Could you estimate its cost,
how much it saves the taxpayer, how rapidly it is grow-
ing? Do you have any idea of its quality, of its outcomes?
Could you estimate future need for Catholic schools and
their support? Are Catholics satisfied with their schools?
These are questions which have been and are being
asked of educated and informed Catholics by their neigh-
bors. The answers are difficult to give because much of
the factual information is not easily available. Some has
not been collected. Yet it is important to have accurate
knowledge about the largest effort in religious education
in the world. Catholic schools educate over 14% of all
children of elementary school age and nearly 10% of all
attending high school. A system this large is of signifi-
cance not only to the Catholic Church but to the United
States.
It is opportune that at the present time the University
of Notre Dame, aided by a grant of $350,000 from The
Carnegie Corporation, is undertaking a factual and objec-
tive nationwide study of Catholic elementary and second-
ary schools. It is hoped that the results of the Study will
give a profile of Catholic education which will be of inter-
est and of value to the American public, including Cath-
olics, many of whom have an incomplete picture of our
schools. A second goal of the Study will be to provide in-
14 NOTRE DAME
formation and evaluation to the administrators and policy
formers of our Catholic schools.
The first phase of the Study — the preparation of the
profile — began in October. The staff is canvassing every
teacher in 13,500 schools, every principal and every super-
intendent. Data are being collected on qualifications of
teachers, their ages, their experience. Salaries of lay teach-
ers, who now constitute about one-fourth of the school
staff are being analyzed. Information supplied by prin-
cipals and superintendents is completing the picture show-
ing school organization, supervision, extent and condition
of physical facilities, class size, special services, experimen-
tation going on, and school support.
The data collected will be processed in the new Com-
puter Center at the University. The total profile study
which will be published next summer will include chap-
ters on the History and Development of Catholic Schools
in the United States, the Objective of Catholic Educa-
Superintendents of the first dioceses to be studied in
depth meet with Dr. Conley in Washington, D.C. They
are: (I to r) Msgr. Justin A. Driscoll, Dubuque; Dr.
Conley; Msgr. William E. McManus, Chicago; and Msgr.
J. William Lester, Ft. Wayne-South Bend.
il
w£
■'I
I
I
I	.	...
I tion, the Present Scope of Catholic Education (the statis-
I tical summary and interpretation) and Some Critical
I Issues in American Catholic Education.
|	The second phase of the Study began November 1. It
I is concerned with investigations in depth in thirteen
| dioceses selected on the basis of geography, density of
Catholic population, uniqueness of problems, and past and
estimated future growth. The thirteen are: Providence,
New York City (suburban area), Buffalo, Wilming-
ton, Pittsburgh, Mobile-Birmingham, Cleveland, Fort
Wayne-South Bend, Chicago, Dubuque, Grand Island
(Nebraska), Tucson and San Francisco. A pilot study was
conducted in the Fort Wayne-South Bend diocese.
The depth studies are attempting to make an evalua-
tion of Catholic schools. They are interested in outcomes,
in utilization of resources, strengths and weaknesses. The
' data collected for the profile study will be used for each
|	diocese. In addition there will be staff visitation of schools,
I interviews with central office personnel, principals, teach-
i	ers and students, validation of testing programs. Data will
!	also be collected on retention of students, reasons for drop-
!	out and transfer, and success in progression.
’	ANALYSIS WILL BE SLOW
■	Analysis of the data collected in the depth studies will
i	be slow and will extend well into a second year. The
,	material will be organized to be of assistance primarily to
!	educators and policy makers in making long-range plans
’ for improvement and expansion.
The organization for the conduct of the Study is com-
•	plex. Reverend Theodore M. Hesburgh and Dr. George
!	N. Shuster of Notre Dame and Msgr. Frederick G.
j	Hoch wait of the National Catholic Educational Associa-
; tion constitute an Executive Committee for the general
> direction of the work. The University received and con-
trols the grant from The Carnegie Corporation.
An Advisory Committee composed of Archbishop
Lawrence Sheehan of Baltimore, Chairman, Archbishop
i John F. Deardon of Detroit, Bishop John Wright of Pitts-
burgh and sixteen other persons representing various
educational viewpoints, industry, alumni, and the general
public assisted in the development of the general plan of
the Study and continue as consultants.
The Director of the Study has responsibility for the
Other conferees include (back row, I to r): Bishop-elect
C. E. Elwell, Cleveland; Rev. Richard Kleiber, Washing-
ton, D.C.; and Msgr. E. J. Goebel, Milwaukee. The bottom
row has Msgr. R. C. Ulrich, Omaha; Dr. Conley; and
Reginald A. Neuwien, assistant director of the study.
detailed design, its execution, and the communication of
results. The staff includes Mr. Reginald A. Neuwien, the
Associate Director, who came to the Study from the
Greater Cleveland Research Council where he was Direc-
tor of Administrative Research. Formerly, he was Super-
intendent of Schools in Stamford, Connecticut. Other
staff associates from the University of Notre Dame are:
Donald Barrett of the Department of Sociology; Bernard
Kohlbrenner of the Department of Education; Leonard
Staff associates for the Catholic School Study from the
University of Notre Dame are (seated I to r): Rev.
Xavier Harris, O.F.M.; Dr. Conley; Reginald A. Neuwien;
and Donald Barrett. Standing are: Bernard Kohlbrenner
and Leonard Kazmier.
Kazmier of the College of Business Administration; and
Rev. Xavier Harris, O.F.M., of the Department of Edu-
cation.
A Faculty Committee from the University headed by
Rev. John Walsh assists the Study in a consulting capaci-
ty and provides a channel for a two-way flow of informa-
tion between the staff of the Study and the faculty.
COMMITTEE OF TEN
Technical aid and liaison with Superintendents of
Catholic diocesan school systems is in the hands of a com-
mittee of ten superintendents appointed by Msgr. O’Neil
G. D’Amour, Associate Secretary for the Superintendents
Department of N.C.E.A. The Committee has met at
Notre Dame and in Washington to advise on data to be
collected, questionnaires and other procedures.
The grant from The Carnegie Corporation is an indi-
cation that one of the major foundations recognizes the
importance of a study of Catholic education. In selecting
the University of Notre Dame, it assured itself that the
investigation would be scholarly and professional. The
wholehearted co-operation of the hierarchy and religious
superiors is evidence that the Church welcomes the oppor-
tunity to have its schools studied and publicized.
The funds given to the University are a part of the
current $18,000,000 Challenge Program. The Ford
Foundation matching grant has been received as a result
of the action of Carnegie. The University is confident that
the Study will make an important contribution to the
future of Catholic education in the United States.
15
•J A	s '
LAW SCHOOL GRADUATES
SERVE THE NATION AS
be unthinkable
hands down a decision supporting
the constitutional
Michigan and former governor of
of
freedom. He is instinctively revered as the living image
of law and order. He commands universal deference
the
the
by which he is
Upon appoint-
and respect. Our legal system would
without him.
The Honorable Harry
Justice of the Supreme
F. Kelly,
Court of
cities and hamlets the judge is the
of day-to-day justice and personal
In American
accepted symbol
This is true regardless of the means
chosen or the government he represents.

by
Thomas F. Broden, Jr., LL.B., J.D.
Professor of Law
The Law School
University of Notre Dame
ment or election he ascends to a unique and lofty status,
be he city, county, state or federal judge. This esteem
extends to those close to him — his family, his profes-
sional associates, and his school.
The Notre Dame Law School has been fortunate in
finding so many of her graduates elevated to the ranks
of the judiciary. From border to border and coast to
coast Notre Dame men are serving their communities in
this high office.
Notre Dame Law School graduates who have served
as judges on the West Coast include United States Dis-
trict Judge John F. Kilkenny (LL.B. ’25), from Portland,
Oregon; Circuit Judge Edward J. Leavy (LL.B. ’25),
from Eugene, Oregon; and California Superior Court
Judge Alfonso Aloysius Scott (LL.B. ’22), from Los
Angeles. Farthest away on the opposite Atlantic Coast
is Connecticut Supreme Court Justice James E. Murphy
(LL.B. ’22) from Bridgeport, Connecticut.
The heaviest responsibility these and all judges face
is to decide justly the cases presented to them. The ex-
ercise of this virtue of justice is not as simple as it might
appear to the layman. As the Hon. Roger J. Kiley (LL.B.
’25), judge of the United States Court of Appeals for
the Seventh Circuit has said:
state, is a 1917 graduate
Notre Dame Law School.
The judicial function is commonly misunderstood
and the intrinsic decisional process implicit in it greatly
oversimplified. The decisional process is conceived by
many to be a syllogism in which a legal rule is the
major premise, the facts of the case the minor premise,
and the judicial decision the conclusion. The process
is not that simple. The concept overlooks the com-
plex interior operations that precede and underlie the
final decision. Intrinsically the decision is made up
of many operations, co-operations and interactions
of the intellect, will and particular reason. (Kiley,
“The Trial Judge Thinks,” in From an Abundant
Spring (New York) 1952, p. 487.)
Even though the typical American spontaneously and
instinctively respects a judge he meets or knows, there
is much ambivalence in the feelings of Americans about
the judiciary. This is best characterized by the hostile
reaction which often greets judicial protection of the
rights of unpopular defendants. For example, there is
always noticeable condemnation of the Justices of the
Supreme Court of the United States when that court
16 NOTRE DAME
Judge Roger J. Kiley (LL.B. ’25) left, and Judge Luther M. Swygert	The Honorable Clifford O’Sullivan
(LL.B. ’27) serve on the U.S. Court of Appeals, Seventh Circuit, Chicago.	(LL.B. ’20) is judge of the U.S.
Court of Appeals, Sixth Circuit, in
Port Huron, Michigan.
rights of an alleged Communist, murderer, or other un-
popular litigant. Closer to home, Judge Kiley may have
recalled his above statement about the popular misunder-
standing of the judicial function when he and his court
were subjected to heated criticism in a recent case in-
volving the reputed mobster, Tony Accardo. Judge Kiley
wrote the opinion for the Seventh Circuit Court of Ap-
peals reversing Accardo’s income-tax law conviction be-
cause Accardo had not received a fair trial. Justice de-
manded that the conviction be reversed even though the
decision was bound to be unpopular with many laymen.
EQUAL TREATMENT FOR ALL
In the long run, however, it is generally recognized
that the judiciary performs no higher function in our
law than guaranteeing to every person, rich or poor,
saint or sinner, equal and fair treatment. Justice would
be bankrupt if the personality or affiliations of the liti-
gants controlled the disposition of cases. In a very real
sense, there is no law unless the process is inspired by the
motto engraved in stone over the portals of the Supreme
Court Building in Washington, D. C. — “Equal Justice
Under Law.”
In other ways too the judges role often appears
paradoxical. As Judge Luther Swygert (LL.B. ’27), also
a judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit has said:
Law, we know, must be certain; without cer-
tainty, there is no law. It must have a uniformity of
application. Principles and rules of conduct cannot
be changed to fit the whims of the occasion. On the
other hand, a certain elasticity is required so that
needed growth can take place. The rules of conduct
must not be too hard and fast; fluidity is needed to
meet the novel set of facts. The molds used to fashion
yesterday’s judicial determination may not fit today’s
problem, posed for the law to settle.
Law must not only keep pace with society as far as
principles of decision are concerned but the judicial
process itself must keep modem and up-to-date. In
recent years there has been concern about excessive
delays in court cases. In some metropolitian areas it has
been reported that it takes over three years to bring a
case to trial because of congested court calendars. This
is disturbing because so often justice delayed is justice
denied. Various remedies have been employed to relieve
this situation. In South Bend, Indiana, Superior Court
Judge E. Spencer Walton (LL.B., ’36) recently joined
with other judges in the area to modernize the court
rules and otherwise speed up the disposition of court
cases.
Other attacks on the problem of court delays have
The Honorable Robert A. Grant
(LL.B. ’30) of South Bend is one
of the three U.S. District Judges
for the Northern Indiana District.
Judge George Beamer (LL.B. ’29) left, chats with Judge William B. Jones
(LL.B. ’31) on the occasion of their appointments to U.S. District benches
by President Kennedy.
Honorary President of the N.D. Law Association,
N.Y. Supreme Court Judge William B. Lawless.
.* .	*• 'J®*-'--*,'\	-'S''"	**, •
practice trials every Saturday in the fall semester putting
into practice his belief that honorable and effective
advocacy are vital to the independence and integrity of
our legal system and have a vital role in maintaining our
judicial institutions. Before him the late Indiana Circuit
Court Judge J. Elmer Peak (LL.B. ’12) presided over
the Law School trial practice program. Judge Kiley for-
merly participated in the Natural Law Seminar and
Great Books program in the Law School. United States
District Judge Robert A. Grant (LL.B. ’30) has co-
operated with visits of the first-year class in Criminal
Law and Procedure to his courtroom during the trial
of a criminal case.
The Notre Dame Law Association has been the
beneficiary of generous and dynamic leadership by judges.
The current Honorary President, N.Y. State Supreme
Court Judge William B. Lawless (LL.B. ’44) is a fine
example. Judge Lawless initiated the practice of offer-
ing a program of substantial professional interest to
included an increase in the number of judges. For ex-
ample, the number of federal judges has recently been
increased to meet this problem. A few years ago there
was just one judge in the Northern Indiana District.
Now there are three and two of them are Notre Dame
judges, the Hon. Robert A. Grant (LL.B. ’30) and the
recently appointed Judge George Beamer (LL.B. ’29).
ADMINISTRATION IMPROVED
Judges participate in many ways in the improvement
of the administration of justice. Over forty years ago the
late, great Justice Cardozo expressed the widely shared
view that there is a great waste of the legal wisdom
possessed by judges. In many cases judges are bound by
precedent to make inequitable or unjust decisions. Yet
they have no effective means of bringing the inequitable
or unjust rule to the attention of the legislature. Cardozo
proposed a ministry of justice to serve this mediating
purpose. He suggested that the ministry be composed of
judges, practitioners and law teachers who would observe
the day-to-day workings of the law and make recom-
mendations for its improvement. In this way the store-
house of knowledge possessed by judges as to how the
law can be improved would be effectively transmitted
to the legislature. Cardozo chose the new ministry of
justice rather than the existing agencies such as the
office of Attorney General or the Bar Associations be-
cause, among other things, the latter were already over-
burdened with duties. From this suggestion came the New
York Law Revision Commission and Judicial Council in
New York. Since then the role and responsibilities of
Judicial Conferences all over the United States have
grown. In an article in the American Bar Association
Journal in September, 1958, then Illinois Appellate Court
Judge Roger Kiley reported the birth and development
of the Illinois Judicial Conference in which he, Appellate
Court Judge William M. Carrell (LL.B. ’15), Circuit
Judges Robert L. Bracken (LL.B. ’08) and Joseph J.
Barr (LL.B. ’43), Superior Court Judge John Lyons
(LL.B. ’29) and other N.D. judges played a vital part.
Notre Dame judges have not only made great con-
tributions to the local communities they serve, but over
the years many have returned to the campus to assist the
Law School in one capacity or another.
Judge Swygert presently presides at the third-year
The judge from the earliest Notre Dame Law School class
is Robert L. Bracken (LL.B. ’08) left, Circuit Court, Dixon,
III. The Notre Dame judge from the most recent class is
John F. Marchal (LL.B. ’58), County Court, Greenville,
Ohio.
Notre Dame lawyers who might be returning for the
alumni week-end activities the week after graduation.
Last year a Trial Practice Session was held at the Law
School the Thursday and Friday preceding the alumni
week end. Recently appointed United States District
Judge William B. Jones (LL.B. ’31) served with dis-
tinction both as a president and member of the Board of
Directors of the Association. Judge John C. Mowbray
(LL.B. ’49) of Nevada’s 8th Judicial District has con-
tributed much wisdom as a member of the Law Associa-
tion Board of Directors. And Indiana Circuit Judge
Henry P. Schrenker (LL.B. ’42) also has contributed
generously as a member of the Board of the Association.
Finally the Advisory Council of the Notre Dame
Law School has benefitted from the wisdom of Notre
Dame Judges Kiley and Michigan Supreme Court Judge
Harry Kelly (LL.B. ’17).
The contributions and accomplishments of the Notre
Dame judges singled out in this brief sketch represent
but a fractional part of the total impact all Notre Dame
judges have made on their communities. It is impossible
to recount the full story or identify all Notre Dame Law
School graduates who have been elevated to the bench.
However, all may be assured of the hope that the spirit
of Notre Dame will always remain with them.
18 NOTRE DAME
I
NOTRE DAME NEWS
(Continued from page 2)
DR. MERMENS TALKS ON FOREIGN POLICY
Dr. Ferdinand A. Hermens, professor of Political
Science at Notre Dame, gave a public lecture on “Ameri-
can Foreign Policy and the German Image.” His talk was
sponsored by the University’s Committee on International
Relations.
LEE IN SYMPOSIUM
Dr. Lawrence H. N. Lee, professor of Engineering
Science at Notre Dame, participated in a “Symposium on
the Instability of Shell Structures” of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration at NASA’s Langley
Research Center, Hampton, Virginia.
SCHAEFER ATTENDS DEDICATION
Victor A. Schaefer, director of libraries at the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame, attended the dedication of the new
Olin Memorial Library at Cornell University, Ithaca,
N. Y. He also participated in a conference on “New
Directions for the University Library” being held in con-
junction with the dedication.
LEIGHTON AND CROWLEY NAMED
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University
President, announced the appointments of Judd Leighton,
vice chairman of the board of directors of the First Bank
and Trust Company, South Bend, to the Advisory Council
for the College of Business Administration, and Patrick
F. Crowley, of the Chicago law firm of Crowley, Sprecher,
Barrett and Karaba, to the Notre Dame Law School
Advisory Council.
FATHER O’BRIEN WRITES NEW BOOK
Rev. John A. O’Brien, research professor of theology
at the University of Notre Dame, has written a new 400-
page paperback book, entitled, 100 Common Questions
About Catholic Faith, which determines the 100 questions
most frequently asked by Catholics and non-Catholics
concerning the history, doctrines and practices of the
Catholic faith.
FOUR SENIORS GET NSF GRANTS
Four Notre Dame seniors have been awarded National
Science Foundation grants to participate in research pro-
grams of the Department of Chemical Engineering during
the current school year. They are George J. Gannon,
Farmville, N. G.; John E. Dabrowski, Elizabeth, N. J.;
Robert R. Rowe, Niles, HL; and Robert C. Swed,
Morton Grove, Ill.
ROSS AND GUTSCHICK ATTEND MEETINGS
Professor Arnold Ross, head of the Department of
Mathematics, attended a science panel meeting sponsored
by the National Science Foundation in Denver, in late
September. Professor Raymond G. Gutschick, head of
the Geology Department attended a meeting of the
Geological Education Orientation Study steering com-
mittee in Chicago, also in September.
LOGAN SPEAKS AT LAKE FOREST
John Logan, associate professor in the General Pro-
gram of Liberal Education at Notre Dame, was one of
three speakers at a Religion and Contemporary Literature
Conference at Lake Forest (Hl.) College in October.
BRODERICK VISITS PITT
Professor John J. Broderick, Jr., assistant dean of the
Law School, represented Notre Dame at the University
of Pittsburgh’s celebration of the 175th anniversary of
the U.S. Constitution in September.
WALPUCK GETS POLISH-U.S. GRANT
Kenneth Walpuck of Tarrytown, N. Y., who received
a Master of Fine Arts degree from the University of
Notre Dame last June, and was a special student of the
late celebrated sculptor, Ivan Mestrovic, has received
grants from the governments of Poland and the United
States for study abroad during the 1962-63 school year.
CARDINAL O’HARA LECTURE SERIES STARTS
George Katona, program director of the Survey Re-
search Center at the University of Michigan, delivered
the opening program in the 1962-63 Cardinal O’Hara
Memorial Lectures of the College of Business Administra-
tion with a talk titled “Mass-Consumption Economy” on
October 17. Werner Z. Hirsch, director of the Institute
for Urban and Regional Studies at Washington Univer-
sity of St. Louis, spoke about “The American Metropolis
— Opportunities and Challenge” in the second Cardinal
O’Hara lecture on November 13. The concluding lectures
in the series will be held February 14 and March 6 with
Louis M. Hacker, former dean of the School of General
Studies at Columbia University, and Lloyd G. Reynolds,
director of the Center for Quantitative Study of Eco-
nomic Structure and Growth at Yale University, dis-
cussing “The Robber Barons Revisited: American Eco-
nomic Growth, 1861-1900” and “The Economic Impact
of Trade Unionism,” respectively.
FATHER HESBURGH VISITS THE ANTARCTIC
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.G., president of
Notre Dame, inspected U.S. research stations in the
Antarctic during a two-week tour of the frozen continent
in November as a member of the National Science Board,
the 24-member governing board of the National Science
Foundation, and chairman of the NSF’s Committee on
International Scientific Activities. He visited five research
centers within a 1,500-mile radius of McMurdo Station,
a complex of 70 buildings, on Ross Island.
ANNUAL P. C. REILLY LECTURES BEGIN
Three noted figures in the fields of Chemistry and
Chemical Engineering delivered annual P. G. Reilly Lec-
tures at the University of Notre Dame in the fall and
four more are scheduled to lecture during the remainder
of the 1962-63 school year. Already appearing were:
Nelson J. Leonard, professor of Chemistry at the Uni-
versity of Illinois at Urbana who appeared from Oct. 29
to Nov. 9; Herbert A. Laitinen, also a professor of Chem-
istry at Illinois, who spoke on Nov. 26 to 30; and Barnett
F. Dodge, professor of Chemical Engineering, Yale Uni-
versity, New Haven, Conn., who appeared on Dec. 2
to 6. Appearing later will be Frank A. Cotton, professor
of Chemistry, Massachusetts Institute of Technology at
Cambridge, Feb. 4 to 15; Stuart W. Churchill, professor
of Chemical Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor, March 24 to 28; Martin D. Kamen, professor of
Chemistry, University of California-San Diego at La-
Jolla, April 22 to May 3; and Fred Kurata, professor
of Chemical Engineering at the University of Kansas,
Lawrence, May 5 to 9.
19
Rev. Reynold */. V.urr&y, CSC
Corey jail,
IlOure lass, Ind.
child is born to us, and a son
is given to us: whose government
is upon his shoulder: and his
name shall be called, the Angel
of great counsel..
<ZPith these exultant words, the Tntroit of the
Jllass for ChristmasDay begins. Aid/ each
gear at this time the hotrewme Jamily
throughout the world • • • alumni, parents,
friends • • - joins together inthejoyous
spiritqfthis special season.
Xn these troubled times, the bond which
unites Our Lady sjamily is a comforting
tiling.
Amid thepressures and anxieties of our
everyday world,TlotreDame stillstands
with arms outstretched, welcoming
all to her side.
And now we, too, can share thejoy
of thatfirst Christmas.
Jlay the Peace of Christmas "Be y ours
‘Throughout the flewycar
from all the members of
‘the University qfllotrcDamc foundation
and the
tilotre Dame Alumni Association