Commencement Exercises 
The University of Notre Dame 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
Summer Session, 1937 

The Graduate School The College of Arts and Letters The College of Science The College of Engineering The College of Law The College of Commerce 

WASHINGTON HALL 
At 8 :00 p. tn. (Central Standa,·d Time) 
August 3, 1937 
PROGRAM 
The Conferring of Degrees. Address, by Rev. David Mathew, Litt.D. The Song of Notre Dame, by the Audience, 
Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, Accompanist. 
[ 2] 
Degrees Conferred 
The Graduate School of the University announces the conferring of: 
The Degree of Doctor of Philosophy on: 
Sister M. Mercedes Koehl,** of the Sisters of Notre Dame, Cleveland, Ohio A.B., Notre Dame College, 1928; M.S., University of Notre Dame, 1933. Major subject: Physical Chemistry. Dissertation: The Dielectric Prop­erties of Acid Chloride as Evidence of Resonance within Molecules. 
Patrick Aloysius McCusker,*', Niagara Falls, New York A.B., Niagara University, 1926; M.S., University of Notre Dame, 1930. Major subject: Organic Chemistry. Dissertation: The Preparation and Reactions of Halogeno Acetylenes. 
Sister Elizabeth Seton McDonald,** of the Sisters of Charity, Cincinnati, Ohio · A.B., Xavier University, 1924: M.S., University of Notre Dame, 1932. Major subject: Botany. Diss~rtation: The Life-forms of the Flowering Plants of Indiana. 
Paul Anthony Sartoretto,* Rock Springs, Wyoming 
B.S. in Ch.E., University of Notre Dame, 1933; M.S., ibid., 1934. Maior subject: Organic Chemistry. Dissertation: The Cleavage of Diphenl Ethers by Sodium in Liquid Ammonia. 
Stefan Joseph Slanina,** Mt. Pleasant, Pennsylvania 
B.S. in Ch.E., Tri-State College, 1929: M.S., University of Notre Dame. 1935. Major subject: Organic Chemistry. Dissertation: T'he Reactions of Some Alkenyl Esters Derived £ram Alkylacetylenes, 
fJ 
The Degree of Maste1· of A1·ts on: 
Sister Mary Mildred Augustin,** of the Poor Handmaids of Jesus Christ, Donaldson, Indiana Ph.B., Loyola University, Chicago, 1929; 'Major subject: HistOl'y. Dis­sertation: The Territorial Difficulties of the Early Dioceses of the Middle-West, in the Pel'iocl between 1784 and 1860. 
Sister M. Teresa Clare Baxter,* of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, Holy Cross, Indiana A,B., University of Notre Dame, 1929. Major subject: History. Dis­sertation: The Labors of Father Toussaint Mesplie in Southern Idaho. 
Brother Marius Bednarczyk,* of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Notre Dame, Indiana A.B., University of Notre Dame, 1927. Major subject: Education. Dis­sertation: The Practice and EJ<tent of Supe1·vision in the Catholic High Schools. 
[ 8 ] 
Sister Maura Campbell,** of the Sisters of Loretto, Sterling, Illinois B.S., LOl'etto Heights College, 1926. Major subject: French. Disse1·ta­tion: Le Sentiment catholique dans la Poesie de Paul Hare!. 
Sister Genevieve Marie Connelly,* of the Sisters of Notre Dame de Namur, Mount Notre Dame, Reading, Ohio A.B., Tl'inity College, 1913. Major subject: Latin. Dissel'tation: The Political Views of Tacitus. 
Brother Damian Daele, of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Notre Dame, Indiana Ph.B., University of Notre Dame, 1925. Majo1• subject: History. Dis­sertation: A1mourers as Subservient Cause of Modern Wars. 
Sister Marian Alberta Hensgen,** of the Sisters of Loretto, Kansas City, Missouri A.B., Creighton University, 1928. Major subject: Latin. Dissertation: Sancti Aureli Augustini de Opera Monachm·um. 
Sister Mary Clarice Hug,** of the Sisters of Notre Dame, Toledo, Ohio A.B., St. John's University, Toledo, 1930. Major subject: French. Dissertation : Les Miracles de Notre Dame par personnages du XIVe siecle sur scene Moderne. 
Sister Mary Benedicta Kenny, of the Sisters of St. Joseph, McSherrytown, Pennsylvania A.B., Villanova College, 1931. Major subject: English. Dissertation: English Criticism of Hawthorne, between 1840 and 1864, 
Sister Mary Angela Lalonde,* of the Order of Saint Dominic, Grand Rapids, Michigan A.B., University of Notre Dame, 1930. Major subject: French. Disser­tation: Rapprochement entre les comedie de Shakespeare et Jes com­edies de Moliere. 
Sister Mary Martin Langan,* of the Order of Saint Dom­inic, Spalding, Nebraska Ph.B., Loyola University, Chicago, 1929. Major subject: History, Dis­sertation: General John O'Neill, Soldier, Fenian, and Leader of Irish Catholic ·colonization in America. 
Sister Eileen Marie McBreen,** of the Sisters of Notre Dame de Namur, Cincinnati, Ohio A.B., University of Cincinnati, 1920. Major subject: History. Disserta­tion: The Visit of the Most Reverend Cajetan Bendini to Cincinnati in 1853. 
Sister Mary Gertrude McCray,* of the Religious Sisters 'of Mercy, Fremont, Ohio A.B., Catholic University of America, 1928. Major subject: History, Dissertation : Evidences of Catholic Interest in Social Welfare in the United States between 1830 and 1860. [ 4] 
Sister M. de Chantal Murphy, of' the Sisters of Saint Joseph, Nazareth, Michigan A.B., Nazareth College, 1929. Major Subject: English. Disse1·tation: The Autobiographical Elements in Jane Eyre. 
Rev. Jeremiah Thomas Purtill,* of the Society of Saint Edmund, Winooski Park, Vermont A.B., St, Michael's College, 1929. Major subject: English. Dissertation: Ruskin's Idea of. lEsthetic Pleasure. 
Sister Mary Amadeus Ronan, of the Religious Sisters of Mercy, Plains, Pennsylvania A.B., Fordham University, 1922. Major subject: English. Dissertation: Charles Warren Stoddard's Power of Description in Prose. 
Sister Marie Weigand,* of the Order of Saint Dominic, Springfield, Illinois A.B., University of Notre Dame, 1927. Major subject: History. Dis­sertation: The Achievements of the 119th Illinois Infantry Volunteers. 
Sister Mary Callista Young,* of the Religious Sisters of Mercy, Grand Rapids; Michigan A.B., University of Notre Dame, 1927. Major subject: English. Dis­sertation: The Italian Scene in Certain Poems of Robert Browning. 
The Degree of Master of Science on: 
Sister Mary Domitilla Arnoldy,** of the Sisters of Saint Joseph, Concordia, Kansas B.S., Kansas State College, Manhattan, 1929, Major subject: Biology, Dissertation: The Classification and Determination of the Werner Collection of Gastropods. 
Arthur Alyosius Baum,** Battle Creek, Michigan 
B.S. in Ch.E., University of Notre Dame, 1936. Major subject: Organic Chemistry. Dissertation: Some Reactions of Ketals. 
Robert Francis Bernard,* Mayville, Wisconsin 
B.S. in Ch.E., University of Notre Dame, 1936. Major subject: Physical Chemistry. Dissertation: The Reactions of the Halogenoacetylenes with the Grignard Reagent. 
Joseph Thomas Cordaro,** Rochester, New York 
. B.S., University of Notre Dame, 1935. Majo1· subject: Bacteriology. Dissertation: Critical Investigation of Certain Phases of the Reyniers' Technique of Raising Biological Specimens '£hat Are Germ-free. 
Marcellus Joseph Geerts, Davenport, Iowa 
B.S. in Ch.E., University of Notre Dame, 1936. Major subject: Organic Chemisti·y. Dissertation: The Preparation of the Sodium Salt of Amylacetylene. 
Charles Joseph O'Boyle,* Philadelphia, Pennsylvania B.S., St. Joseph's College, Philadelphia, 1936. Major subject: Organi<? Chemistry. Dissertation: Lithium ·salt of Acetylene. 
[ 5 ] 
Brother Terence Smith, of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Notre Dame, Indiana B.S., University of Notre Drune, 1933. Major subject: Organic Chem­istry. Dissertation: Esterification in Pyridine: the Propionates of Primary Alcohols. 
The University announces the conferring of the following baccalaureate degrees: 
In the College of Arts and Letters 
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts on: 
Edwin Charles Bauer, c.s.c., Brooklyn, Michigan Philip Thomas Behan, Syracuse, New York Raymond Martin Burch, Washington, D. C. Brother Sigismund Danielski,* c.s.c., Notre Dame, Indiana John Francis Darcy, Boston, .Massachusetts Sister Jeanne Marie Ernsdorft',** F.C.S.P., Seattle, Washington John Edward Kelly, Somerville, Massachusetts Achilles Hernden Moorman, Detroit, Michigan Frederich Charles Mulcahy, Milwaukee, Wisconsin John Frederick Nims,*** Montague, Michigan John Harold Sheehan,*" South Bend, Indiana Brother Severin Smith, c.s.c., Notre Dame, Indiana Lloyd Richa1·d Stolich, Salinas, California Jrunes Norbert Sullivan,** Calumet, Michigan Harold Joseph Tomaschko, Weston, West Virginia Sister Bernard Marie Wenz,"* s.s.J., Nazareth, Michigan 
The Degree of Bachelor of Music on: 
Francis Charles Barbush, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 
The Degree of Bachelor of Fine Arts on: 
Sister M. Jerome Nelson,* R.s.~r., Hammond, Indiana 
[ 6] 
In the College of Science 
The Degree of Bachelor of Science on: 
Edward Philip Drendel, Azusa, California Brother Victorian Florkowski, c.s.c., Notre Dame, Indiana John Michael Powers,* Houston, Texas 
In the College of Commerce 
The Deg1·ee of Bachelo1· of Science in Commerce on: 
James Joseph Brien, Brooklyn, New York Thomas Sweeney Condon, Buffalo, New York James Gorman Hack, Chicago, Illinois Luke Joseph Tiernan, Chicago, Illinois 
The Degree of Bachelor of Philosophy in Commerce on: 
James Rollin Osgood, LaGrange, Illinois 
I 7 I 
THE SONG OF NOTRE DAME 
By Francis C. Schwab, '02 
0 Notre Dame, thou beauteous place, Where nature teems, where nature teems, And learning calmly grows apace, While fancy dreams, while fancy dreams; We love thee for thy goodly worth, We love thy name, we love thy name ­It is the sweetest name on earth, 0 Notre Dame, 0 Notre Dame. 
Although thou are not sere with age, We honor thee, we honor thee, And when the wintry tempests rage, We love to see, we love to see 
Thy towers pointing to the sky, With steady aim, with steady aim, As though the storms thou wouldst defy, 0 Notre Dame, 0 Notre Dame. 



