169 th 
MAY 16-18, 2014 
university of notre dame commencement 


thursday, may 15 
9 p.m. 
senior class prayer service and last visit to the basilica and grotto 
Senior only event Basilica of the Sacred Heart – Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes 


Friday, may 16 
9:30 – 11 a.m. 
Minor in european studies recognition breakfast 
Hosted by the Nanovic Institute for European Studies For reservations, please contact the Institute South Dining Hall – Oak Room 
10 a.m. – noon 
education, schooling, and society reception 
Graduates and their families are invited Carole Sandner Hall – Remick Commons 
10:30 a.m.– noon 
sociology senior recognition brunch 
For graduating seniors and their families Tickets required for celebration.  Contact department for information North Dining Hall – BC-Wing 
11 a.m. – 1 p.m. 
gender studies prograM graduation reception 
West of O’Shaughnessy Hall – South Quad Inclement weather location:  O’Shaughnessy Hall – Great Hall 
11 a.m. – 1 p.m. 
departMent of roMance languages and literatures awards cereMony 
Tickets required Washington Hall – Auditorium 
Noon 
residence halls 
Available for check-in to parents and guests Registration and payment required 
Noon – 2 p.m. 
graduation luncheon honoring hesburgh prograM seniors 
For Hesburgh Program graduating seniors and their families LaFortune Student Center – Ballroom 
2 – 4 p.m. 
senior history reception 
For graduating majors, their guests, and faculty Short program to begin at 2 p.m.  Dessert reception to follow McKenna Hall – Atrium and Auditorium 
2 – 4 p.m. 
prograM of liberal studies graduation reception 
South Dining Hall – Oak Room 
3 – 5 p.m. 
departMent of classics and prograM of arabic language and culture senior recognition cereMony and reception 
North Dining Hall – F-Wing 
3 – 5 p.m. 
departMent of econoMics recognition cereMony and reception  
Contact department for information - (574) 631-2597 or email Marie Revak at mrevak@nd.edu DeBartolo Performing Arts Center - Patricia George Decio Theatre Dessert reception to follow:  Irish Green 
3 – 5 p.m. 
hesburgh-yusko scholars prograM reception 
For Hesburgh-Yusko Scholars Program graduating seniors and their families. Refreshments will be served  Main Building - Room 120 
3 – 5 p.m. 
sorin society 'thank you' reception 
An open house reception for Sorin parents and new Corby Young Alumni members and their families to say 'thank you' for your membership in the Sorin Society By invitation only  Compton Family Ice Arena - O'Brien's 
4 – 5:30 p.m. 
aluMni association senior legacy reception 
Alumni and the Class of 2014 graduates who are legacies are invited to attend with their families. No R.S.V.P. required Eck Visitors Center 
4 – 6 p.m. 
departMent of aMerican studies and the gallivan prograM in journalisM, ethics, and deMocracy senior recognition and graduation reception 
O’Shaughnessy Hall – Great Hall 
thursday, friday, saturday, and sunday, May 15-18, 2014. except when noted, all ceremonies and activities are open to the public and tickets are not required. 

2 
4 p.m. 
liturgical choir coMMenceMent concert 
University of Notre Dame Liturgical Choir Open to the public / Free admission Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
4 p.m. 
native aMerican recognition cereMony 
Invitation only Legends of Notre Dame 
4 – 5:30 p.m. 
departMent of philosophy reception and recognition cereMony 
See department for tickets Jordan Hall – Room 101 
4 – 5:30 p.m. 
pi sigMa alpha:  gaMMa delta chapter induction cereMony 
DeBartolo Hall  – Room 141 
4 – 5:30 p.m. 
departMent of theology reception 
For graduating seniors and their families Appetizers will be served.  No tickets required.  
R.S.V.P. to Emily Hammock Mosby at ehammock@nd.edu Address provided upon R.S.V.P. Residence of Professor Tim Matovina 
4:30 p.m. 
east asian languages and cultures recognition cereMony 
DeBartolo Hall – Room 102 Reception immediately following 
4:30 – 6 p.m. 
kellogg institute for international studies awards cereMony and reception 
For graduating Latin American Studies minors, International Development Studies minors, international scholars, award recipients, their families, and friends of the Institute  Awards presentation begins at 5 p.m. Hesburgh Center for International Studies – Auditorium and Courtyard 
5 p.m. 
alliance for catholic education Mass 
Members and families of ACE 21 welcome Carole Sandner Hall – Remick Commons 
5 p.m. 
esteeM prograM dinner 
For ESTEEM graduates, their families, and faculty.  By invitation only Morris Inn – Ballroom B and C 
5 – 7 p.m. 
psychology departMent reception and award recognition 
For graduating seniors, their guests, and faculty Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
5:30 – 8 p.m. 
buffet style dinner 
Tickets must be purchased in advance per information and ticket procurement procedures South Dining Hall 
5:30 p.m. 
coMMenceMent band concert 
Free and open to the public.  Tickets required - call 574-631-2800 DeBartolo Performing Arts Center – Leighton Concert Hall 
6 – 8 p.m. 
departMent of africana studies recognition cereMony 
See department for tickets South Dining Hall – Hospitality Room 
6 – 8 p.m. 
kroc institute undergraduate recognition cereMony and reception 
For graduating Peace Studies undergraduates, their guests, and Peace Studies faculty and fellows Light refreshments will be served McKenna Hall – Auditorium 
7 p.m. 
latino recognition cereMony 
Washington Hall - Auditorium Reception immediately following:  LaFortune Student Center 
7:30 p.m. 
english Majors end of year celebration 
Contact department for information.  DeBartolo Performing Arts Center - Patricia George Decio Theatre Dessert reception to follow:  Irish Green (no ticket required) 
8 p.m. 
departMent of Music coMMenceMent concert 
Featuring the Department of Music students Free and open to the public. Tickets required – call 574-631-2800 DeBartolo Performing Arts Center – Leighton Concert Hall 


saturday, may 17 
9 - 11 a.m. 
rotc coMMissioning cereMony 
Tickets required for ceremony DeBartolo Performing Arts Center – Leighton Concert Hall Reception to follow:  Irish Green 
9:30 a.m. – noon 
departMent of gerMan and russian languages and literatures convocation 
North Dining Hall – F-Wing 
9:30 a.m. 
law school prayer service 
Tickets required Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

10 a.m. 
africana recognition cereMony 
Washington Hall – Auditorium Reception immediately following:  LaFortune Student Center – Ballroom 
10 a.m. – noon 
departMent of anthropology reception 
For graduating seniors, their guests, and faculty McKenna Hall – Atrium 
10 a.m. 
graduate school coMMenceMent cereMony and conferring of degrees 
Students assemble at 9 a.m. Compton Family Ice Arena Reception to follow 
10 a.m. – 1 p.m. 
institute for latino studies open house 
Certificate ceremony for graduates at 11 a.m. McKenna Hall – Room 230 
10 a.m. 
Mendoza college of business graduate cereMony and conferring of degrees 
Joyce Center – Purcell Pavilion 
11 a.m. – 2 p.m. 
food Market lunch 
Tickets must be purchased in advance per information and ticket procurement procedures South Dining Hall – Food Market 
11:30 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. 
phi beta kappa initiation 
Initiates are requested to arrive at 11 a.m. Tickets required DeBartolo Hall – Room 101 
Noon 
departMent of art, art history, and design reception and lunch 
Riley Hall of Art and Design – Front Lawn Inclement weather location:  Riley Hall of Art and Design – Room 309 
12:15 p.m. 
Master of science in business graduation reception 
For MSB graduates and their families Jordan Science Hall – Galleria 
12:30 p.m. 
law school hooding and conferring of degrees 
Hesburgh Library – Reflecting Pool Inclement weather location:  Joyce Center – North Dome 
1 p.m. 
asian and pacific islander recognition cereMony 
Snite Museum of Art – Annenberg Auditorium Reception to follow:  Legends of Notre Dame 
1 – 3 p.m. 
departMent of filM, television, and theatre senior reception 
For graduating seniors and their families DeBartolo Performing Arts Center – Philbin Studio Theatre 
1 p.m. 
service send-off cereMony 
Tickets available at Center for Social Concerns DeBartolo Performing Arts Center – Leighton Concert Hall Reception to follow:  Irish Green 
1:30 – 3:30 p.m. 
Medieval institute cereMony and reception 
For undergraduate and graduate students in Medieval Studies Alumni Hall – Chapel 
2 – 4 p.m. 
kroc institute M.a. recognition cereMony and reception 
For graduating Peace Studies graduate students, their guests, and Peace Studies faculty and fellows Hesburgh Center for International Studies – Auditorium 
2 – 4 p.m. 
university writing center open house 
For graduating Writing Center tutors and their families Coleman-Morse Center – Room 203 
2:30 p.m. 
departMent of political science senior recognition cereMony 
Compton Family Ice Arena 
3 – 4 p.m. 
debartolo perforMing arts center guided tours 
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
3 – 4 p.m. 
departMent of ManageMent reception 
For graduating seniors and their families Mendoza College of Business – Potenziani Family Atrium 
3 – 3:45 p.m. 
president’s Meet and greet 
All degree candidates, their families, and guests are welcome to stop by for a brief visit with Father Jenkins.  For those who have cameras, this is also an opportunity for a souvenir photo Eck Visitors Center 

3:45 p.m. 
degree candidates asseMble for acadeMic procession for coMMenceMent Mass 
Cap and gown attire required.  No tickets required Joyce Center – Purcell Pavilion Guests - Purcell Pavilion / overflow in the North Dome (Guests enter Main Gate) All doors open for guests at 3:30 p.m. 
4:30 p.m. 
acadeMic procession 
Cap and gown attire required Joyce Center – Purcell Pavilion 
5 – 6:30 p.m. 
coMMenceMent Mass 
No tickets required Joyce Center – Purcell Pavilion Overflow – North Dome (live video screen) 
6:30 – 8:15 p.m. 
graduation dinner 
Tickets must be purchased in advance per information and ticket procurement procedures North and South Dining Halls 
9 p.m. 
glee club coMMenceMent concert 
Tickets available – call 574-631-2800 DeBartolo Performing Arts Center – Leighton Concert Hall 


suNday, may 18 
6:30 – 8 a.m. 
continental breakfast 
Tickets must be purchased in advance per information and ticket procurement procedures South Dining Hall 
7:30 a.m. 
notre daMe stadiuM open for guest seating 
Please be aware of the procedures in the event that the Severe Weather Plan is implemented.  Guest tickets for admission are required  Guests may enter Gate D or E 
8:15 a.m. 
degree candidates asseMble for the acadeMic procession for the university coMMenceMent cereMony 
By College or School at assigned locations Cap and gown attire required 
AL – Graduate – O’Shaughnessy Hall (Great Hall) AL – Undergraduate – DeBartolo Hall EG – Undergraduate and Graduate – Fitzpatrick Hall  SC – Undergraduate and Graduate – Jordan Hall   BA –  Undergraduate and Graduate – Hesburgh  AR – Undergraduate and Graduate – Geddes Hall  LW –  Flag pole (Hurley Hall, if indoor location required) 
9 a.m. 
university coMMenceMent cereMony -acadeMic procession 
Guest tickets for admission are required  Guests may enter Gate D or E starting at 7:30 a.m. Notre Dame Stadium 
9:30 – 11:30 a.m. 
university coMMenceMent cereMony -conferring of bachelor and honorary degrees 
Guest tickets for admission are required. Guests may enter Gate D or E starting at 7:30 a.m. Notre Dame Stadium 
11:30 a.m. 
departMent of cheMistry and biocheMistry undergraduate reception 
Mendoza College of Business – Atrium 
11:30 a.m. – 1 p.m. 
college of engineering celebration lunch 
Provided to Engineering undergraduates and their guests DeBartolo Hall Quad – Tent 
11:30 a.m. – 1 p.m. 
box lunch pick-up 
Tickets must be purchased in advance per information and ticket procurement procedures Hesburgh Library – Quad (Located between Notre Dame Stadium and Hesburgh Library) 
11:30 a.m. – 1 p.m. 
buffet brunch 
Tickets must be purchased in advance per information and ticket procurement procedures North and South Dining Halls and Morris Inn Ballroom 
1 p.m. 
departMent of aerospace and Mechanical engineering undergraduate coMMenceMent cereMony 
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
1 p.m. 
departMent of physics undergraduate coMMenceMent cereMony 
Luncheon reception preceding ceremony at 11:30 a.m. 
R.S.V.P. required – Jordan Science Hall – Galleria Jordan Science Hall – Room 101 
1 p.m. 
departMent of science preprofessional studies undergraduate coMMenceMent cereMony 
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center – Leighton Auditorium 

1:30 p.m. 
departMent of applied and coMputational MatheMatics and statistics undergraduate coMMenceMent cereMony 
Reception to follow Hayes-Healy Building – Room 127 
1:30 p.m. 
school of architecture coMMenceMent cereMony 
Bond Hall 
1:30 – 4 p.m. 
college of arts and letters undergraduate coMMenceMent cereMony 
Graduates enter Gate 10 and may check-in between 11:30 a.m. and 
12:30 p.m. Guests enter Main Gate.  Procession begins at 12:45 p.m. Joyce Center – Purcell Pavilion 
1:30 p.m. 
departMent of biological sciences and environMental science undergraduate coMMenceMent cereMony 
Compton Family Ice Arena Reception to follow – Compton Family Ice Arena 
1:30 p.m. 
departMent of cheMistry and biocheMistry undergraduate coMMenceMent cereMony 
Mendoza College of Business – Auditorium 
1:30 p.m. 
departMent of civil and environMental engineering and earth sciences undergraduate coMMenceMent cereMony 
DeBartolo Hall – Room 101 
1:30 p.m. 
departMent of coMputer science and engineering undergraduate coMMenceMent cereMony 
Washington Hall – Auditorium 
1:30 p.m. 
departMent of electrical engineering undergraduate coMMenceMent cereMony 
DeBartolo Hall – Room 141 
1:30 p.m. 
departMent of MatheMatics undergraduate coMMenceMent cereMony 
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center – Patricia George Decio Theatre 
1:30 p.m. 
Mendoza college of business undergraduate coMMenceMent cereMony 
Graduates enter Gate 2 and check-in on the Concourse at 
12:45 p.m. Guests enter Gate 3.  Procession begins at 1:10 p.m. Joyce Center – North Dome 
3 p.m. 
departMent of cheMical and bioMolecular engineering undergraduate coMMenceMent cereMony 
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
3 p.m. 
collegiate sequence (science business, science coMputing, and science education) undergraduate coMMenceMent cereMony 
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center – Leighton Auditorium 



For additional commencement information, please visit:  http://commencement.nd.edu/ 


Graduate school commencement ceremony 
SATURDAY, MAY 17, 2014 10 A.M. EDT COMPTON ICE ARENA 

169 th
university of notre dame commencement


Graduate school 
Processional 
Convening of the Convocation 
laura a. carlson, Ph.d. dean of the Graduate school vice President and associate Provost and Professor of Psychology 
invocation 
Thomas c. corke, Ph.d. clark equipment Professor of engineering director, hessert laboratory for aerospace research director, institute for flow Physics and control 
introduction of speaker 
Thomas G. Burish, Ph.d. Provost of the university 
Commencement address* 
Kerry ann rockquemore, '99 Ph.d. President and ceo, national center for faculty development & diversity 
Conferral of doctoral degrees 
John t. mcGreevy, Ph.d. 
i.a. o'shaughnessy dean of the college of arts and letters and Professor of history 
Peter K. Kilpatrick, Ph.d. matthew h. mccloskey dean of the college of engineering and Professor of chemical engineering 
Gregory P. crawford, Ph.d. William K. Warren foundation dean of the college of science and Professor of Physics 
recognition of Graduate school award recipients 
dean of the Graduate school 
Eli J. and Helen Shaheen Graduate School Awards 
engineering:  anne elizabeth martin humanities:  albertus Gerhardus almeida horsting science: akaa daniel ayangeakaa social science:  Justin Paul farrell 
Distinguished Graduate Alumnus Award 
Kerry ann rockquemore, '99 Ph.d. 
James A. Burns, C.S.C. Award 
Thomas c. corke, Ph.d. 
Director of Graduate Studies Award 
Gregory l. snider, Ph.d. Professor of electrical engineering 
Conferral of master degrees 
dean of the college of arts and letters dean of the college of engineering dean of the college of science 
Charge to the Graduates and Benediction 
reverend John i. Jenkins, c.s.c. President of the university 
Closing of the Convocation 
dean of the Graduate school 
Notre dame, Our mother* – (alma mater) 
anna cooper 
m.s.m. recipient, Theology 
Notre Dame, Our Mother, tender, strong and true Proudly in the heavens gleams thy gold and blue. Glory's mantle cloaks thee, golden is thy fame And our hearts forever praise thee, Notre Dame; And our hearts forever love thee, Notre Dame. 
—o'donnell-casasanta 
recessional 
* it is customary for men, although not for women, wearing academic garb to have their caps removed during the commencement address and the singing of the alma mater. 


the deGree OF PhilOsOPhiae dOCtOr ON: 

College of Arts and Letters 
*Paul C. Avey, ankeny, iowa major subject:  Political science dissertation:  tempting fate: interests, escalation, and  conflict in nuclear Primacy director:  dr. michael c. desch 
*Faisal R. Baluch, Pakistan major subject:  Political science dissertation:  machiavelli on liberty, empire, and necessity director:  dr. catherine h. Zuckert 
**Steven J. Battin, new orleans, louisiana major subject:  Theology dissertation:  intercommunal ecclesiology: re-envisioning the church as God's response to intergroup disunity director:  dr. cyril J. o'regan 
Jason Michael Baxter, little rock, arkansas major subject:  literature dissertation:  two sacred, encyclopedic Poets: dante and Bernard silvestris co-directors:  Prof. stephen Gersh and  dr. vittorio montemaggi 
Damiano Benvegnù, agordo, italy major subject:  literature dissertation:  Primo levi and the Question of the animal: suffering, techne, creation director:  dr. John P. Welle 
Kimberly Ann Berg, marinette, Wisconsin major subject:  economics dissertation:  essays on exchange rates director:  dr. nelson mark 
**Dulcinea Lela Boesenberg, Greenwood, indiana major subject:  Theology dissertation:  moses in luke–acts director:  dr. mary r. d'angelo 
*Kenneth Ardrey Boyce, raymore, missouri major subject:  Philosophy dissertation:  towards a fictionalist nominalism director:  dr. michael c. rea 
Beau Gentry Branson, edmond, oklahoma major subject:  Philosophy dissertation:  The logical Problem of the trinity director:  dr. richard a. cross Brandon E. Bruning, indianapolis, indiana major subject:  Theology dissertation:  The making of the mishkan: The old Greek text of exodus 35–40 and the literary history of the  Pentateuch director:  dr. eugene c. ulrich 
Rebecca Y. M. Cheung, hong Kong, hong Kong major subject:  Psychology dissertation:  linking Parental depressive symptoms and adolescent Problem Behaviors: mediating roles of family emotional expressiveness,   interparental and family conflict, and adolescent emotional insecurity director:  dr. e. mark cummings 
Ellen Susanna Childs, minneapolis, minnesota major subject:  sociology dissertation:  maladapted to change: how routinized Practice is Killing the united methodist church director:  dr. Jessica l. collett 
*Jaecheon Cho, seoul, republic of Korea major subject:  Theology dissertation:  Philorhomaios: The Portraits of herod  agrippa ii by Josephus and luke director:  dr. Gregory e. sterling 
**Andrew Noël Downing, S.J., villanova, Pennsylvania major subject:  Theology dissertation:  The Problem and Promise of history in the Theology of J. s. drey director:  dr. cyril J. o'regan 
*Erin E. Drew, madison, Wisconsin major subject:  english dissertation:  The usufructuary enlightenment: environmental Thought in eighteenth-century english  literature director:  dr. John sitter 
Josephine K. H. Dru, yukon, oklahoma major subject:  Theology dissertation:  in light and shadow of multiple Wholes: how  Theodore of mopsuestia and Jerome of stridon read Joel among the twelve as scripture  director:  dr. Gary a. anderson 
*Alexander Justin Dukalskis, roseburg, oregon major subject: Peace studies and Political science dissertation:  ideology and authoritarian Persistence: shaping the Public sphere in north Korea and Burma director:  dr. a. James mcadams Mark Ojonugwa Enemali, C.S.Sp., adeh, Kogi state, nigeria major subject:  Theology dissertation:  The danger of transgression against divine Presence: The case of the ark narrative (1 samuel 4:1b–7:1; 2 samuel 6) director:  dr. Gary a. anderson 


Justin Paul Farrell, omaha, nebraska major subject:  sociology dissertation:  The Battle for yellowstone: morality and the sacred roots of modern environmental conflict co-directors:  dr. omar a. lizardo and dr. christian smith 
Julia Feder, south Bend, indiana major subject:  Theology dissertation:  a mystical-Political Theology of Posttraumatic healing: teresa of avila, edward schillebeeckx, and  contemporary trauma Theory director:  dr. m. catherine hilkert 
Manuela Fernández Pinto, Bogota, colombia major subject:  history and Philosophy of science dissertation:  learning from ignorance: agnotology's challenge to Philosophy of science director:  dr. Janet a. Kourany 
*Austin David Choi Fitzpatrick, aloha, oregon major subject:  sociology dissertation:  letting Go: resignation and resistance among  contemporary slaveholders co-directors:  dr. Kraig Beyerlein and  dr. rory m. mcveigh 
Rebecca McCumbers Flavin, nebo, West virginia major subject: Political science dissertation:  The Battle of the unarmed Prophets: religion and republicanism in the Thought of Girolamo savonarola  and niccolo machiavelli director:  dr. catherine h. Zuckert 
*Sara Michelle Fulmer, Waterdown, ontario, canada major subject:  Psychology dissertation:  academic challenge in middle school: teacher Perceptions and student reactions director:  dr. Julianne c. turner 
**David I. Gregory Negrón, Bayamon, Puerto rico major subject:  literature dissertation:  a new space for aesthetics: contemporary literature and filmic representations of alterity Within the southern cone director:  dr. mariá r. olivera-Williams Michael Patrick Griffin, south Bend, indiana major subject:  Theology dissertation:  The Politics of Penance: Proposing an ethic for social repair director:  dr. todd d. Whitmore 
Simone Judith Hamrick, stockbridge, massachusetts major subject: english dissertation:  "an amalgamation of incompatibles": sydney  owenson, Gaelic ireland and the national tale director:  dr. sara l. maurer 
**Andrew Zachary Hansen, lincoln, nebraska major subject:  history dissertation:  Geschichte und Glaube: Protestant Theologians and the Problems of history in Germany and the united states, 1815–1900 director:  dr. James c. turner 
**Amelia Jane Hicks, Grand rapids, michigan major subject:  Philosophy dissertation:  moral Particularism: The nonexistence of moral Principles and the nature of Proper moral deliberation director:  dr. michael r. dePaul 
**Loren K. Higbee, Provo, utah major subject:  literature dissertation:  The Poetics of fragmentation: shared modernity in Petrarch, eliot, and Pound director:  dr. Joann dellaneva 
*Mary L. Hirschfeld, Wayne, Pennsylvania major subject:  Theology dissertation:  virtuous consumption in a dynamic economy: a Thomistic engagement with neoclassical economics director:  dr. Jean Porter 
Kari Marie Hojara, niles, michigan major subject:  sociology dissertation:  running in culture and running into culture: a cultural sociological account of Why meanings matter director:  dr. lynette P. spillman 
*Albertus Gerhardus Almeida Horsting, davis, california major subject:  Theology dissertation:  Prosper of aquitaine's Poetical synthesis of augustinian Theology: a new edition of the Liber  Epigrammatum 
co-directors:  dr. John c. cavadini and  dr. hildegund G. mÜller 

this listing is the property of the university of notre dame and is subject to copyright protection.  it may not be reproduced without the expressed written consent of dennis k. brown, assistant vice president of news and information at the university of notre dame. 

**Ann Catherine Johnson, defiance, iowa major subject:  Psychology dissertation:  The effects of the cortisol response to acute stress on executive functioning among children with  attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and disruptive Behavior disorders director:  dr. Bradley s. Gibson 
Zijun Ke, Guangzhou, People's republic of china major subject:  Psychology dissertation:  an empirical comparison of Three methods to establish directional relationships using multivariate time series: effective connectivity analysis with functional magnetic resonance imaging studies director:  dr. Guangjian Zhang 
*Lauren Marie Keane, redondo Beach, california major subject:  Political science dissertation:  sowing the seeds for Grassroots Growth: how recruitment appeals impact the calculus of citizen   engagement director:  dr. david nickerson 
*Ashleen Menchaca Kelly, new Braunfels, texas major subject:  Political science dissertation:  "my city Before my soul": reading the Discourses on Livy as a retelling of augustine's City of God director:  dr. mary m. Keys 
**Michael Butler Kelly, tangent, oregon major subject:  history dissertation:  The invasion of Things sacred: church,  Property, and sacrilege in early modern england director:  dr. Brad s. Gregory 
*Chad Patton Kiewiet de Jonge, farmville, virginia major subject:  Political science dissertation:  Political learning and democratic commitment in new democracies director:  dr. michael J. coppedge 
*David Charles Kneip, temple, texas major subject:  Theology dissertation:  The church, the Bible, and the sacraments: neglected aspects of cyril of alexandria's Pneumatology director:  dr. Brian e. daley 
*Krystin Lee Krause, nashville, tennessee major subject: Political science dissertation:  supporting the iron fist: The news media and Public attitudes towards crime in latin america director:  dr. scott P. mainwaring 
Charles Andre Laurin, mesa, arizona major subject:  Psychology dissertation:  lasso meta-regression and its application to Psychiatric Genomics director:  dr. Gitta lubke 
*Graham Edward Leach-Krouse, Williamstown, massachusetts major subject:  Philosophy and mathematics disseration: conceptions of absolute Provability co-directors:  dr. timothy J. Bays, dr. michael detlefsen, and dr. Paul larson *Nathaniel Marx, corning, new york major subject: Theology dissertation:  ritual in the age of authenticity: an  ethnography of latin mass catholics co-directors:  dr. david W. fagerberg and dr. nathan d. mitchell 
**Anne Barbara McGinness, shaker heights, ohio major subject: history dissertation:  atlantic reformation: how confessional conflict affected Brazilian society, 1554–1654 co-directors:  dr. felipe fernández-armesto and dr. sabine maccormack 
Damon McGraw, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania major subject:  Theology dissertation:  apocalyptic Thought in John henry newman:  discerning antichrist in modernity director:  dr. cyril J. o'regan 
*Patrick David Mello, chico, california major subject:  english dissertation:  toleration, Persecution, and the novel director:  dr. margaret a. doody 
*Kathleen Nanette Miller, Byron center, michigan major subject:  Psychology dissertation:  disentangling Patterns of influence: marital conflict and adolescent adjustment director:  dr. e. mark cummings 
Edoth M. Mukasa, south Bend, indiana major subject:  Theology dissertation:  "Give me understanding, That may i learn  your commandments":  The Grace of the law: a study of  augustine's Enarratio in Psalmum 118 director:  dr. Brian e. daley 
*Richard Jeremy Oosterhoff, vineland, ontario, canada major subject:  history and Philosophy of science dissertation:  mathematical culture in renaissance Paris: university, Print, and the circle of lefèvre d'Étaples director:  dr. robert d. Goulding 
*Francisco Javier Osorio Zago, Puebla, mexico major subject:  Political science dissertation:  hobbes on drugs: understanding drug  violence in mexico director:  dr. christian davenport 
Charles Hamlin Pence, Bastrop, texas major subject:  history and Philosophy of science dissertation:  chance in evolutionary Theory: fitness, selection, and Genetic drift in Philosophical and historical Perspective director:  dr. Grant a. ramsey 
*Lori Anne Petersen, michigan city, indiana major subject: Psychology dissertation:  how does the representational status of to-Be-counted objects affect children's understanding of  cardinality? director:  dr. nicole m. mcneil Elizabeth McGuire Planalp, cincinnati, ohio major subject:  Psychology dissertation:  determinants of father involvement with young children: evidence from the early childhood longitudinal study (Birth cohort) director:  dr. Julia m. Braungart-rieker 


**Ben Joseph Reinhard, front royal, virginia major subject:  medieval studies dissertation:  "God's lore and Worldly law": archbishop  Wulfstan, his manuscripts, and the Institutes of Polity director:  dr. christopher P. abram 
Bradley James Rettler, mequon, Wisconsin major subject:  Philosophy dissertation:  Grounding truthmaking director:  dr. michael c. rea 
*Maria Alexandrovna Rogacheva, moscow, russia major subject:  history dissertation:  a history of a town That did not exist: The soviet scientific intelligentsia in the Post-stalinist era director:  dr. semion lyandres 
*Nilay Saiya, elkhart, indiana major subject:  Political science dissertation:  The roots of religious terrorism director:  dr. James d. Philpott 
Susy Mariela Sánchez Rodríguez, lima, Peru major subject:  history dissertation:  from the father to the mother of the nation: The metamorphosis of the Politics of commemoration in  nicaragua (1936–1997) director: dr. edward n. Beatty 
*Aaron David Segal, skokie, illinois major subject:  Philosophy dissertation:  hume-inspired metaphysics co-directors:  dr. alvin Plantinga and  dr. Peter van inwagen 
*Jeffrey Michael Seymour, holland, michigan major subject:  sociology dissertation:  moving Beyond consistency in "Pro-life"  attitudes: frames and typologies of varying life ethics director:  dr. michael r. Welch 
WonJae Shin, seoul, republic of Korea major subject:  Psychology dissertation:  learning a recursive center-embedding rule and the role of test method and feedback director:  dr. Kathleen m. eberhard 
**Garrett Randall Smith, folsom, california major subject:  medieval studies dissertation:  The Problem of divine attributes from Thomas aquinas to duns scotus director:  dr. stephen d. dumont *Christine Marie Steeger, colorado springs, colorado major subject:  Psychology dissertation:  combined cognitive and Parent training interventions for adolescents with adhd and Their mothers: a randomized, controlled trial director:  dr. dawn m. Gondoli 
Paul Carl Stey, newark, ohio major subject:  Psychology dissertation:  Bayesian analysis of children's moral Judgments on the trolley cases director:  dr. daniel K. lapsley 
**Elizabeth Covington Strauss, Gettysburg, Pennsylvania major subject:  history dissertation:  "cast me not off in my time of old age...":  The aged and aging in the LÓdz Ghetto, 1939–1944 director:  dr. doris l. Bergen 
*Andrea Kay Tamplin, Bellefontaine, ohio major subject:  Psychology dissertation:  interference from emotional items Within and  across events director:  dr. Gabriel a. radvansky 
**Brandon Rama Vaidyanathan, Bangalore, india major subject:  sociology dissertation:  living in a secular age: Work, lifestyle, and religion in Bangalore and dubai director:  dr. christian smith 
Julieta Yung, mar del Plata, argentina major subject:  economics dissertation:  essays on the term structure of interest rates  and exchange rates director:  dr. Thomas f. cosimano 
*Maryam Meechka Zomorodian, irvine, california major subject:  english dissertation:  "history couched in a Play": Performing the Past on the early modern stage director:  dr. Jesse lander 


College of Engineering 
Bahman Aboulhasanzadeh, shiraz, iran major subject:  aerospace and mechanical engineering dissertation:  multiscale computations of mass transfer in Bubbly flows director:  dr. Grétar tryggvason 
*Mehrdad Aliasgari, tehran, iran major subject:  computer science and engineering dissertation:  secure computation and outsourcing of Biometric data director:  dr. marina Blanton *Nathan Joseph Alves, Woodbury, connecticut major subject:  chemical engineering dissertation:  utilization of the conserved antibody  nucleotide Binding site (nBs): from antibody Purification and advanced medical diagnostics to next Generation  Therapeutics director:  dr. Z. Basár Bilgicer 


**S. M. Niaz Arifin, dhaka, Bangladesh major subject:  computer science and engineering dissertation:  a spatial agent-Based model and a multi­dimensional data Warehouse for malaria research director:  dr. Gregory r. madey 
Jonathan Darryl Ashley, olathe, Kansas major subject:  chemical engineering dissertation:  engineering novel targeted nanoparticle formulations to increase the Therapeutic efficacy of  conventional chemotherapeutics against multiple myeloma director:  dr. Z. Basár Bilgicer 
*Ke Chen, Guangdong, People's republic of china dissertation:  modeling and design of high-Performance and Power-efficient 3d dram architectures director:  dr. Jay Brockman 
**Wenjie Chen, hangzhou, People's republic of china major subject:  electrical engineering dissertation:  defects in emerging iii-v materials for electronic and optoelectronic applications director:  dr. Patrick J. fay 
Nicholas Matthew Contento, Plantation, florida major subject:  chemical engineering dissertation:  micro and nanoscale electrochemical systems for reagent Generation, coupled electrokinetic transport and enhanced detection director:  dr. Paul W. Bohn 
John Andrew Cooney, Jr., south Bend, indiana major subject:  aerospace and mechanical engineering dissertation:  increasing Power Generation in horizontal axis Wind turbines using optimized flow control director:  dr. Thomas c. corke 
Grady Charles Crahan, louisville, Kentucky major subject:  aerospace and mechanical engineering dissertation:  turret optimization using Passive flow control to minimize aero-optic effects co-directors:  dr. eric J. Jumper and dr. robert m. rennie 
*Ann Renee Dallman, albuquerque, new mexico major subject:  civil and environmental engineering and earth sciences dissertation:  flow and turbulence in urban areas director:  dr. harindra J. fernando 
*Aaron Joseph Wilhelm Dingler, Bellevue, Washington major subject:  computer science and engineering dissertation:  nanomagnet logic: from devices to  architectures director:  dr. michael t. niemier **Patrick H. Donohue, central square, new york major subject:  civil engineering and Geological sciences dissertation:  origin and evolution of high-titanium mare Basalts director:  dr. clive r. neal 
**Thomas Alan Duster, Golden, colorado major subject:  civil engineering and Geological sciences dissertation:  experimental determination of metal sorption and transport Parameters for Graphene oxide director:  dr. Jeremy B. fein 
**Ahmed Tawfeek Fawzy Eltaweel, cairo, egypt major subject:  aerospace and mechanical engineering dissertation:  numerical investigation of tandem-cylinder aerodynamic noise and its control with application to airframe noise co-directors:  dr. flint P. Thomas and  dr. meng Wang 
Larry Ricardo Gibson II, nassau, Bahamas major subject:  chemical engineering dissertation:  rapid detection of lipid Biomarkers in Three-dimensional hybrid microfluidic/nanofluidic devices director:  dr. Paul W. Bohn 
*John Charles Goetz, Jericho, vermont major subject:  aerospace and mechanical engineering dissertation:  analysis and optimization of multi-layered  cellular systems for Pulse loading director:  dr. Karel matouŠ 
**Christopher Michael Hocut, south Bend, indiana major subject:  civil engineering and Geological sciences dissertation:  multi-scale flow and turbulence in complex  terrain under Weak synoptic conditions director:  dr. harindra J. fernando 
*Yong Huang, huangshi, People's republic of china major subject:  chemical engineering dissertation:  Thermal stability and Phase transitions of ionic  liquids director:  dr. Joan f. Brennecke 
Tai-Wei Hwang, Kaohsiung, taiwan major subject:  chemical engineering dissertation:  dynamics of atomic scale metallic Junctions  and adsorbed lewis Base adsorbates studied by fluctuation  spectroscopy director:  dr. Paul W. Bohn 
Gaofeng Jia, shijiazhuang, People's republic of china major subject:  civil engineering and Geological sciences dissertation:  Kernel and metamodel Based methods for analysis and optimization of systems under uncertainty director:  dr. alexandros a. taflanidis 
**Christopher Lee Kelley, Bloomington, illinois major subject:  aerospace and mechanical engineering dissertation:  airfoil leading and trailing edge separation control using sdBd Plasma actuators director:  dr. Thomas c. corke Michael Warren Kennedy, modesto, california major subject: aerospace and mechanical engineering dissertation:  visual feedback in Balance rehabilitation using inexpensive Gaming Peripherals director:  dr. James P. schmiedeler 


Mostafa Khoshnevisan, tehran, iran major subject:  electrical engineering dissertation:  intermittent communication director:  dr. J. nicholas laneman 
**Adam Mitchell Knaack, mchenry, illinois major subject:  civil and environmental engineering and earth sciences dissertation:  sustainable concrete structures using recycled concrete aggregate: short-term and long-term Behavior considering material variability director:  dr. yahya c. Kurama 
David Peter Kopp, syracuse, new york major subject:  electrical engineering dissertation:  microwave Performance and fabrication of Quilt Packaging: a novel chip-to-chip interconnect   technology director:  dr. Patrick J. fay 
Keshia Mae Kuhn, omaha, arkansas major subject:  civil engineering and Geological sciences dissertation:  distributions and Bioavailabilities of iron and  other trace metals associated with environmental colloids director:  dr. Patricia a. maurice 
*Lichun Li, Quanzhou, People's republic of china major subject:  electrical engineering dissertation:  event triggered state estimation and control with limited channel capacity director:  dr. michael d. lemmon 
Peng Li, Wuhan, People's republic of china major subject:  electrical engineering dissertation:  enhanced Permeability dielectrics in nanomagnet logic director:  dr. Gary h. Bernstein 
*Ya-Cheng Lin, fengyuan, taiwan major subject:  chemical engineering dissertation:  combustion Joining of dissimilar and refractory materials director:  dr. Paul J. mcGinn and  dr. alexander s. mukasyan 
**Shiliang Liu, shandong, People's republic of china major subject:  computer science and engineering dissertation:  design and modeling for nanomagnet logic circuits and architectures co-directors:  dr. Gyorgy csaba and  dr. xiaobo (sharon) hu 
Shu Liu, changzhou, People's republic of china major subject:  computer science and engineering dissertation:  Potential of opportunistic relaying: Performance study across Wireless interfaces on smartphones director:  dr. aaron striegel Elaine MacDonald, south Bend, indiana major subject:  aerospace and mechanical engineering dissertation:  low energy orthopedic instruments and  fixation strategies director:  dr. steven r. schmid 
Anne Elizabeth Martin, newark, delaware major subject:  aerospace and mechanical engineering dissertation:  Predictive modeling of healthy and amputee  Walking using a simple Planar model director:  dr. James P. schmiedeler 
**Brendan Thomas McGrail, mcKeesport, Pennsylvania major subject:  civil engineering and Geological sciences dissertation:  reactions and electronic structure of actinyl Peroxide complexes director:  dr. Peter c. Burns 
Daniel Payton McInnis, Bloomington, minnesota major subject:  civil engineering and Geological sciences dissertation:  transport of humic substances in Porous  media: experimental and modeling approaches director:  dr. Patricia a. maurice 
*Christopher Wayne Miller, louisville, Kentucky major subject:  computer science and engineering dissertation:  configurable integrated monitoring system for mobile devices director:  dr. christian Poellabauer 
Chinmoy Nath, Bilaspur, india major subject:  civil engineering and Geological sciences dissertation:  Theoretical and laboratory modeling of turbulent Jets in low aspect ratio cavities director:  dr. harindra J. fernando 
Brian William Neiswander, crystal lake, illinois major subject:  aerospace and mechanical engineering dissertation:  electron density measurements for Plasma adaptive optics co-directors:  dr. Thomas c. corke and dr. eric h. matlis 
**Jeremy Thurston Newkirk, West hartford, connecticut major subject:  aerospace and mechanical engineering dissertation:  measurement and Quantification of the human shoulder Girdle motion and design of a humanoid shoulder Girdle mechanism with minimal actuation director:  dr. michael m. staniŠic 
*Jeffrey Richard Paone, south Bend, indiana major subject:  computer science and engineering dissertation:  liberating the Biometric menagerie Through  score normalization improvements director:  dr. Patrick J. flynn 
**Jared Edgar Peterson, las vegas, nevada major subject:  chemical engineering dissertation:  ionic liquid / co2 co-fluid refrigeration:  co2 solubility modeling and life cycle analysis co-directors:  dr. Joan f. Brennecke and  dr. mark a. stadtherr *David Christopher Post, arcanum, ohio major subject:  aerospace and mechanical engineering dissertation:  robustness and efficiency of Planar Biped  Walking robots director:  dr. James P. schmiedeler 


James Gregory Radich, Biloxi, mississippi major subject:  chemical engineering dissertation:  reduced Graphene oxide-Based  nanoassemblies for energy storage applications director:  dr. Prashant v. Kamat 
**Mark Hamilton Ross, las vegas, nevada major subject:  aerospace and mechanical engineering dissertation:  tip clearance flow interaction with circumferential Groove casing treatment in a transonic axial  compressor director:  dr. scott c. morris 
Clara Elizabeth Seaman, oklahoma city, oklahoma major subject:  aerospace and mechanical engineering dissertation:  characterization of tricuspid and Bicuspid  aortic valve hemodynamics under normal and calcified  states director:  dr. Philippe sucosky 
Samuel Seo, ann arbor, michigan major subject:  chemical engineering dissertation:  chemically tunable ionic liquids with aprotic  heterocyclic anions for co2 separation director:  dr. Joan f. Brennecke 
**Chaojun Shi, hunan, People's republic of china major subject:  chemical engineering dissertation:  development of ionic liquids for li-ion Battery  applications director:  dr. Joan f. Brennecke 
Mohammad Abu Jafar Siddiq, dhaka, Bangladesh major subject:  electrical engineering dissertation:  clock line and field-coupled input for nanomagnet logic co-directors:  dr. Gary h. Bernstein and dr. michael t. niemier 
Jonathan C. Silver, newtown, connecticut major subject:  aerospace and mechanical engineering dissertation:  The acoustics and unsteady Wall Pressure of a  circulation control airfoil director:  dr. scott c. morris 
Andrew James Steward, Plainfield, indiana major subject:  Bioengineering dissertation:  The mechanotransduction of hydrostatic  Pressure by mesenchymal stem cells director:  dr. diane r. Wagner 
Ling Sun, anshan, People's republic of china major subject:  Bioengineering dissertation:  role of hemodynamic shear stress  abnormalities in calcific aortic valve disease director:  dr. Philippe sucosky **Zhanwei Sun, shenyang, People's republic of china major subject:  electrical engineering dissertation:  Performance metrics, sampling schemes, and  detection algorithms for Wideband spectrum sensing director:  dr. J. nicholas laneman 
*Andrew David Thrasher, anderson, indiana major subject:  computer science and engineering dissertation:  leveraging large-scale distributed systems for massive Biological datasets director:  dr. scott J. emrich 
Jason Robert Tomko, south Park, Pennsylvania major subject:  aerospace and mechanical engineering dissertation:  fluid-loaded vibration of Thin structures due to turbulent excitation director:  dr. scott c. morris 
*Travis Lee Turnbull, alamogordo, new mexico major subject:  aerospace and mechanical engineering dissertation:  The spatial distribution of fatigue microdamage accumulation in cortical Bone and factors influencing fracture risk director:  dr. ryan K. roeder 
Dirk Van Bruggen, allegan, michigan major subject:  computer science and engineering dissertation:  studying the impact of security awareness efforts on user Behavior director:  dr. aaron striegel 
Timothy John Vasen, south Bend, indiana major subject:  electrical engineering dissertation:  investigation of iii-v tunneling field-effect   transistors director:  dr. alan c. seabaugh 
*Jai Kishan Verma, Kanpur, india major subject:  electrical engineering dissertation:  Polarization and Band Gap engineered iii- nitride optoelectronic device structures director:  dr. debdeep Jena 
Theodore John Hoffman Williams, Granger, indiana major subject:  aerospace and mechanical engineering dissertation:  compliant flow designs for optimum lift  control of Wind turbine rotors director:  dr. Thomas c. corke 
**Hao Wu, Jiangsu, People's republic of china major subject:  chemical engineering dissertation:  dynamics and Water solubility of ionic liquids for co2 capture using molecular dynamics simulation director:  dr. edward J. maginn 
*Po Wu, seattle, Washington major subject:  electrical engineering dissertation:  symmetry and dissipativity in the design of large-scale complex control systems director:  dr. Panos J. antsaklis **Teng Wu, hunan, People's republic of china major subject:  civil engineering and Geological sciences dissertation:  nonlinear Bluff-Body aerodynamics director:  dr. ahsan Kareem 


*Li Yu, nanchang, Jiangxi, People's republic of china major subject:  computer science and engineering dissertation:  right-sizing resource allocations for scientific  applications in clusters, Grids, and clouds director:  dr. douglas l. Thain 
*Zhi Zhai, tianjin, People's republic of china major subject:  computer science and engineering dissertation:  technology-facilitated crowdsourcing systems director:  dr. Gregory r. madey 
**Wei Zhang, shandong, People's republic of china major subject:  computer science and engineering dissertation:  data mining for Biological data learning:  algorithm and application director:  dr. scott emrich 
**Xinchen Zhang, shanghai, People's republic of china major subject:  electrical engineering dissertation:  managing randomness in Wireless networks:  random Power control and successive interference   cancellation director:  dr. martin haenggi 
*Jing Zhao, fuzhou, People's republic of china major subject:  chemical engineering dissertation:  single molecule enzyme dynamics and  spectroelectrochemistry in Gold-Based Zero-mode Waveguides director:  dr. Paul W. Bohn 
Kai Zhao, shanghai, People's republic of china major subject:  aerospace and mechanical engineering dissertation:  Kinematic synthesis of Planar, shape-changing   mechanisms director:  dr. James P. schmiedeler 
**Ying Zhou, Beijing, People's republic of china major subject:  computer science and engineering dissertation:  a case study of collecting Pda-Based Geo- tagged malaria-related survey data, and an agent-Based  entomological model with two applications director:  dr. Gregory r. madey 
Feng Zhu, Wugang, People's republic of china major subject:  electrical engineering dissertation:  Passivity analysis and Passivation in the design of cyber-Physical systems director:  dr. Panos J. antsaklis 


College of Science 
*Emmanuel Adu-Gyamfi, accra, Ghana major subject:  Biochemistry dissertation:  molecular architecture of ebola virus assembly director:  dr. robert v. stahelin Steven Michael Asiala, Brethren, michigan major subject:  chemistry dissertation:  surface enhanced raman spectroscopy (sers)  for characterization of Particles in solution director:  dr. Zachary d. schultz 
*Akaa Daniel Ayangeakaa, makurdi, nigeria major subject:  Physics dissertation:  exotic modes of collective excitations: nuclear tidal Waves and chirality director:  dr. umesh Garg 
Velmurugan Balaraman, south Bend, indiana major subject:  Biological sciences dissertation:  hammerhead ribozyme mediated suppression  of chikungunya virus replication in vero cells director:  dr. malcolm J. fraser 
**Ashley Kate Baldridge, houghton, michigan major subject:  Biological sciences dissertation:  invasive rusty crayfish (Orconectes rusticus): community impacts and Potential for recovery director:  dr. david m. lodge 
*Matthew Barnes, Plano, texas major subject:  Biological sciences dissertation:  Prediction, detection, and management of aquatic invasive species director: dr. david m. lodge 
Kerry Mina Bauer, roseville, minnesota major subject:  Biochemistry dissertation:  using Quantitative transcriptomic and Proteomic methodologies to interrogate Biomarkers in colon  cancer director:  dr. amanda B. hummon 
*Douglas Ryan Berry, midland, michigan major subject:  Physics dissertation:  evidence of the higgs Boson decaying into two Photons co-directors:  dr. colin P. Jessop and  dr. nancy marinelli 
Michelle Marie Bertke, rixford, Pennsylvania major subject:  Biochemistry dissertation:  The role of sumoylation in early development of Xenopus laevis and regulation of 5s ribosomal rna Genes director:  dr. Paul W. huber 
Esther Braselmann, münchehagen, Germany major subject:  Biochemistry dissertation:  investigating the secretion and folding mechanism of a ß-sheet rich virulence Protein director:  dr. Patricia l. clark 
*Kristi Marie Bray, mesa, arizona major subject:  Biological sciences dissertation:  investigating the role of cdc42 in mammary  Gland development and Breast cancer director:  dr. tracy vargo-Gogola Brian Michael Bucher, valparaiso, indiana major subject:  Physics dissertation:  on the Production of the light heavy-elements (a~90) director:  dr. ani aprahamian 


Katherine Michelle Byrd, detroit, michigan major subject:  chemistry dissertation:  design, synthesis and application of cholesterol-Based molecular Probes as Biochemical tools for the study of cholesterol trafficking director:  dr. Paul helquist 
*Carlos A. Chaparro, lemont, illinois major subject:  Physics dissertation:  micro-calorimetric study of iron-Based  superconductor Bafe (as P )
2 1-x x2 
co-directors:  dr. morten r. eskildsen, dr. Wai-Kwong  Kwok, and dr. ulrich Welp 
Xiaoyang Chen, leiyang, hunan, People's republic of china major subject:  mathematics dissertation:  curvature and riemannian submersions director:  dr. Karsten Grove 
Changde Cheng, hunan, People's republic of china major subject:  Biological sciences dissertation:  ecological and functional Genomics of  chromosomal inversions in the malaria mosquito Anopheles gambiae 
director:  dr. nora J. Besansky 
James Wainwright Clancy, san diego, california major subject:  Biological sciences dissertation:  arf6 regulated tumor Progression: Glandular  disruption and cell invasion  director:  dr. crislyn d'souza-schorey 
Anthony Eugene Clemons, detroit, michigan major subject:  Biological sciences dissertation:  conserved developmental cues of Aedes  aegypti and Their impact on the mosquito vector co-directors:  dr. molly duman-scheel and  dr. david W. severson 
Carleton G. Collins, Granger, indiana major subject:  chemistry dissertation:  advanced studies of anthracene containing squaraine rotaxanes director:  dr. Bradley d. smith 
Henry Clay Conner IV, indianapolis, indiana major subject:  Biological sciences dissertation:  The role of notch signaling during retinal regeneration in Zebrafish director:  dr. david r. hyde 
Melissa Renee Gillette, Berne, indiana major subject:  Biological sciences dissertation:  rho GtPase signaling in epithelial-stromal  interactions in the developing mammary Gland director:  dr. tracy vargo-Gogola **Joseph A. Hagmann, Westfield, new Jersey major subject:  Physics dissertation:  magnetotransport investigation of Bismuth  chalcogenide topological insulators director:  dr. malgorzata dobrowolska-furdyna 
Brandon Edward Haines, vassar, michigan major subject:  chemistry dissertation:  computational studies on the mechanism of hmG-coa reductase and the Grignard srn1 reaction director:  dr. olaf G. Wiest 
*Wenrui Hao, mishawaka, indiana major subject:  applied and computational mathematics and statistics dissertation:  homotopy methods for nonlinear Partial  differential equation systems co-directors:  dr. Bei hu and dr. andrew J. sommese 
Rachel Lynn Harding, Wooster, ohio major subject:  Biological sciences dissertation:  identification and characterization of mirna expression during Zebrafish retinal regeneration director:  dr. david r. hyde 
John Matthew Harvey, carndonagh, ireland major subject:  mathematics dossertation:  around Palais' covering homotopy Theorem director:  dr. Karsten Grove 
**Matthew McIntyre Jobbins, freehold, new Jersey major subject:  chemistry dissertation:  scanning tunneling microscopy investigations  of reactions Between Thiolate coated Gold surfaces and Gas- Phase radicals director:  dr. s. alex Kandel 
Erica Jean Kistner, maple valley, Washington major subject:  Biological sciences dissertation:  a Grasshopper and its fungal Pathogen: a model system for disease dynamics director:  dr. Gary e. Belovsky 
Sachidananda Krishnamurthy, south Bend, indiana major subject:  chemistry dissertation:  Graphene Based assemblies: electron transfer Processes and energy conversion applications director:  dr. Prashant v. Kamat 
*Richard Charles Kurker, east hartford, connecticut major subject:  Biochemistry dissertation:  Beyond o2: Biochemistry of chlorite  dismutases from Klebsiella and Staphylococcus director:  dr. Jennifer duBois 
Joshua Mitchell Lee, santa clarita, california major subject:  chemistry dissertation:  computational studies on the mechanism and stereochemistry of lewis acid-catalyzed aldol condensations and other molecular modeling studies co-directors:  dr. Paul helquist and dr. olaf G. Wiest Chunlei Li, mishawaka, indiana major subject:  applied and computational mathematics and statistics dissertation:  computational modeling of microtubule  dynamic instability co-directors:  dr. mark s. alber and  dr. holly v. Goodson 


Yueh-Ju Lin, taipei, taiwan major subject:  mathematics dissertation:  connected sum construction of constant  Q-curvature manifolds in higher dimensions director:  dr. matthew J. Gursky 
*Joshua David Lioi, aiken, south carolina major subject:  applied and computational mathematics and statistics dissertation:  advancements in the multiscale modeling of Blood clot formation co-directors:  dr. mark s. alber and  dr. Zhiliang xu 
Han Liu, south Bend, indiana major subject:  mathematics dissertation:  a Plane rational map with chebyshev-like   dynamics director:  dr. Jeffrey a. diller 
Wuming Luo, shishou, People's republic of china major subject:  Physics dissertation:  searching for the standard model higgs Boson Produced in association with a top-Quark Pair in PP  collisions at the lhc director:  dr. Kevin lannon 
Danielle Marie McDermott, Bellingham, Washington major subject:  Physics dissertation:  Pattern formation in micro and nanosystems co-directors:  dr. Kathie e. newman and  dr. cynthia J. olson reichhardt 
Victor Alejandro Ocasio Gonzalez, isabela, Puerto rico major subject:  mathematics dissertation:  computability in the class of real closed fields director:  dr. Julia f. Knight 
**Tessa Jae Pearson, houston, texas major subject:  Physics dissertation:  top Pair differential cross section measurement in the muon + Jets channel at vs=8 tev with the compact  muon solenoid co-directors:  dr. Kevin lannon and  dr. randal c. ruchti 
*Julia Theresa Ott Philip, nashville, tennessee major subject:  chemistry dissertation:  development of a yeast-Based sensor for environmental monitoring director: dr. holly v. Goodson **Richard Edward Pimpinella, south Bend, indiana major subject:  Physics dissertation:  fabrication and Physical Properties of  semiconducting nanowires Grown by molecular Beam   epitaxy director:  dr. malgorzata dobrowolska-furdyna 
Adam James Plaunt, south lyon, michigan major subject:  chemistry dissertation:  modified Zinc(ii)-Bis(dipicolylamine) coordination complexes for enhanced recognition of Phosphatidylserine director:  dr. Bradley d. smith 
*Matthew Joseph Polinski, north charleroi, Pennsylvania major subject:  chemistry dissertation:  syntheses, characterization, and fundamental studies of novel trivalent lanthanide and actinide Borates director:  dr. Thomas e. albrecht-schmitt 
**Georgios Poulios, Thessaloniki, Greece major subject:  mathematics dossertatopm:  Peterzil-steinhorn subgroups of real algebraic Groups director:  dr. sergei starchenko 
Catherine Rastovski, south Bend, indiana major subject:  Physics dissertation:  metastable vortex lattice dynamics in mgB2 studied by small angle neutron scattering director:  dr. morten r. eskildsen 
Dipanjan Ray, Berkeley, california major subject:  Physics dissertation:  dynamics of vortices and active matter on structured substrates co-directors:  dr. Boldizsár JankÓ and  dr. cynthia J. olson reichhardt 
Francis J. Raycroft, Whitestown, indiana major subject:  Biological sciences dissertation:  characterization of the JaK1/stat3 Pathway  during Zebrafish retinal development and light-induced Photoreceptor regeneration director:  dr. david r. hyde 
**Samuel Stanford Chan Rund, Beech Grove, indiana major subject: Biological sciences dissertation:  circadian and diel rhythms of the Anopheles  gambiae mosquito director:  dr. Giles e. duffield 
Joseph J. Sarro, Queens, new york major subject: Biological sciences dissertation:  Drosophila models of human cancers  associated with modulation of DCC/Frazzled signaling director:  dr. molly duman-scheel 
Jordan Leslie Scott, oakville, canada major subject: Biochemistry dissertation:  a Biochemical investigation of mechanisms of Peripheral Phosphoinositide-Binding Proteins director:  dr. robert v. stahelin **Alanna Elizabeth Sedgwick, scarborough, ontario, canada major subject:  Biological sciences dissertation:  cellular mechanisms of tumor cell invasion director:  dr. crislyn d'souza-schorey 


**Patrick Douglas Shirey, sarver, Pennsylvania major subject:  Biological sciences dissertation:  an interdisciplinary approach to inform ecological restoration and environmental Policy: merging ecology, history, and law director:  dr. Gary a. lamberti 
**Sheina Biason Sim, norwalk, california major subject:  Biological sciences dissertation:  The frontier of ecological speciation: investigating Western Populations of Rhagoletis pomonella director:  dr. Jeffrey l. feder 
Geoffrey Henry Siwo, Kisumu, Kenya major subject:  Biological sciences dissertation:  Predictive modeling of complex malaria Phenotypes director:  dr. michael t. ferdig 
Karl Isaac Smith, Gregory, michigan major subject:  Physics dissertation:  ß-delayed neutron emission studies of neutron-rich Palladium and silver isotopes director:  dr. michael c. Wiescher 
*Aprell Loreal Sparks, south Bend, indiana major subject:  Biological sciences dissertation:  characterization of the mitotic stil Gene in  dopaminergic cell survival director:  dr. lei li 
Zachary Love Terranova, rockford, illinois major subject:  chemistry dissertation:  exploring the structure and dynamics of ionic liquids using molecular dynamics director:  dr. steven a. corcelli 
Maria Felix Unger, tomsk, russian federation major subject:  Biological sciences dissertation:  cytogenetic studies of Polytene chromosomes  and Physical Genome mapping for the mosquito Culex quinquefasciatus say, 1823; transposable element annotation  of several insect-vector species director:  dr. frank h. collins 
Calli Anne Versagli, muscatine, iowa major subject:  Biological sciences dissertation:  understanding the metabolic mechanisms Behind the survival of extracellular matrix-detatched Breast  cancer cells director:  dr. Zachary t. schafer 
Felix Vietmeyer, emmerthal, Germany major subject:  chemistry dissertation:  optical Properties of cdse nanowires —  experiment and Theory director:  dr. masaru K. Kuno Katherine Elizabeth Ward, arkadelphia, arkansas major subject:  Biochemistry dissertation:  cytosolic Phospholipase a2: a mechanistic study of lipid Binding and its effects on membrane  morphology director:  dr. robert v. stahelin 
Natalie Anna Wasio, redford, michigan major subject:  chemistry dissertation:  scanning tunneling microscopy studies of organometallic molecules on au(111): mixed valence states and Quasicrystalline ordering director:  dr. s. alex Kandel 
* graduated august 7, 2013 ** graduated january 5, 2014 


COlleGe OF arts aNd letters 
Katie Elizabeth Adams, metairie, louisiana degree:  master of education Ruby Athenas Amezquita, elkhart, indiana degree:  master of education 
Ketty Anyeko, Gulu, uganda degree:  master of arts major subject:  Peace studies 
Brian Thomas Argus, fort Wayne, indiana degree:  master of education Joseph Martin Augustinsky, Glen ellyn, illinois degree:  master of education 
*Megan Jennifer Austin, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  sociology Thesis: a school-Based Perspective on how school choice Programs affect student outcomes  director:  dr. mark Berends 
**Mehrdad Babadi, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  sociology Thesis: The varieties of everyday religiosity among iranian Graduate students in us universities  director:  dr. christian smith 
James Matthew Backes, lakeville, minnesota degree:  master of education 
Adhik Badal, Kavre, nepal degree:  master of arts major subject:  Peace studies 
Vince Abe Bagnulo, Winnipeg, manitoba, canada degree:  master of arts major subject:  Political science 
Natalie Elizabeth Baldasare, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania degree:  master of education 
Michael Reilly Beard, Beaverton, oregon degree:  master of divinity major subject:  Theology 
Dylan Smith Belton, Johannesburg, south africa degree:  master of Theological studies Michael Joseph de Leon Berino, san Pablo, california degree:  master of education 
*Laura Kathryn Berlage, indianapolis, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  Theology 
Kirsten Hope Block, Gothenburg, nebraska degree:  master of arts major subject:  early christian studies 
**Kelsey Blomeke, minneapolis, minnesota degree:  master of arts major subject:  Psychology Thesis: stress Generation in marital interactions among currently depressed, Past depressed, and never depressed   spouses director:  dr. david a. smith 
*Sr. Peter Verona Bodoh, O.P., nashville, tennesse degree:  master of arts in educational administration 
*Kathryn Mary Green Boehlefeld, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  Political science Jeffrey Charles Bowlby, mount holly, new Jersey degree:  master of education 
*Sharon Pauline Boyd, Kingsgrove, australia degree:  master of arts major subject:  Theology 
Molly Catherine Boyle, new ulm, minnesota degree:  master of education Nicholas Charles Brandt, dallas, texas degree:  master of education 
*Andrew Timothy Brenner, Jacksonville, florida degree:  master of arts major subject:  Philosophy 
Elizabeth Rose Brewick, la Grange Park, illinois degree:  master of education Kayla Marie Brimeyer, dubuque, iowa degree:  master of education 
*Genehan Vincent Tupue Brion, saint louis, missouri degree:  master of arts major subject:  Theology 
Clare Brogan, little silver, new Jersey degree:  master of arts major subject:  classics Thesis: The leuktra Tropaion: a case study in ancient  Greek victory monuments director:  dr. robin f. rhodes 
*Kate Bulfin, county limerick, ireland degree:  master of education 
Monica Barbara Bykowski, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  history 
Caroline Elizabeth Byrd, charlotte, north carolina degree:  master of arts major subject:  Psychology  Thesis: Gesturing may not always make learning last director:  dr. nicole m. mcneil 
Ruth Marie Case, denver, colorado degree:  master of education Elizabeth Ann Chaten, carmel, indiana degree:  master of education 
William Kiptoo Chebett, eldoret, Kenya degree:  master of arts major subject:  Peace studies 
**Chonghyun Choi, seoul, republic of Korea degree:  master of arts major subject:  Political science 
Peter Youn Ho Choi, Grand rapids, michigan degree:  master of arts major subject:  history 
Mari Louise Christmas, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of fine arts major subject:  english Thesis: dogs of love and other love stories director:  dr. steve a. tomasula 
*Justin Thomas Christy, Greenwich, new york degree:  master of arts major subject:  Philosophy 
Matthew Richard Cirillo, huntingtown, maryland degree:  master of education Alison Jean Coffman, West concord, minnesota degree:  master of education 
Katie Ann Conlon, Portland, oregon degree:  master of arts major subject:  Peace studies Anna Sally Cooper, chico, california degree:  master of sacred music major subject:  Theology 


*Jeffrey Thomas Cooper, chico, california degree:  master of sacred music major subject:  Theology 
*Mary McKenna Corrigan, chicago, illinois degree:  master of arts in educational administration Ryan Daniel Costello, san antonio, texas degree:  master of education 
Leo F. Costigan, haddon township, new Jersey degree:  master of fine arts major subject:  english Thesis: accounts of the cold director:  Prof. William a. o'rourke 
James David Cotton, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  romance languages and literature Thesis: "lavoro di unificazione": calvino's nationalizing  fiabe director:  dr. Theodore J. cachey 
Christina Ann Coughlin, irvine, california degree:  master of education 
*Abigail Michelle Craycraft, milford, ohio degree:  master of arts major subject:  Theology 
Karie Elizabeth Cross, Greenbrier, arkansas degree:  master of arts major subject:  Political science 
*Mariana I. Cruz-Fernández, Guaynabo, Puerto rico degree:  master of arts major subject:  romance languages and literature 
Bianca Czaderna, Woodbury, connecticut degree:  master of Theological studies 
*Elizabeth Jordan Daly, mclean, virginia degree:  master of arts major subject:  Psychology Thesis: examining the validity and utility of the narcissistic Personality inventory  director:  dr. lee anna clark 
Erin Elizabeth Daly, andover, minnesota degree:  master of arts major subject:  art history Thesis: stereotype and Generalization in herodotus and the temple of athena nike: The creation of the eastern other  director:  dr. robin f. rhodes 
*Jennifer Daly, enniscorthy, Wexford, ireland degree:  master of education 
Anna Huiberdina Hilda de Bakker, Winnipeg, manitoba,  canada degree:  master of medieval studies 
Kevin Francis De La Montaigne, tucson, arizona degree:  master of education 
Roberto Jose De La Noval, miami, florida degree:  master of arts major subject:  early christian studies 
Benjamin Chambers Denison, mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania degree:  master of arts major subject:  Political science 
Caitlyn Elyse Duehren, saint louis, missouri degree:  master of Theological studies Tara Christina Duffy, louisville, Kentucky degree:  master of education 
Meghan Elizabeth Duke, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of Theological studies 
Lucy Abigail Dunderdale, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  Peace studies 
Andrew Christopher Dupont, Bristol, connecticut degree:  master of education Rev. David C. Eliaona, C.S.C., Kilimanjaro, tanzania degree:  master of Theological studies 
*Christina Jeanne Emilian, leo, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  Theology 
**Kevin Anthony Estep, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  sociology Thesis: constructing a language Problem: Paternalism, Power devaluation, and the legitimation of nativism in the english­only movement  director:  dr. rory m. mcveigh 
Matthew Edward Fase, C.S.C., rockford, michigan degree:  master of divinity major subject:  Theology 
Mary Esther Fashbaugh, ironwood, michigan degree:  master of fine arts major subject:  art studio Thesis: vulnerability inVisibility director:  Prof. richard l. Gray 
Elizabeth Marie Flood, mobile, alabama degree:  master of education 
Matthew Statler Flynn, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of divinity major subject:  Theology 
Cody Daniel Forsberg, farwell, michigan degree:  master of arts major subject:  economics 
*Alison Mary Frank, minneapolis, minnesota degree:  master of arts in educational administration 
*Erica Schiller Freeman, Bainbridge island, Washington degree:  master of arts major subject:  history and Philosophy of science Thesis: darwin on the "more interesting" and "most intricate" Problems for natural selection director:  dr. Phillip r. sloan 
Jonathan Patrick Frega, hawthorne, new Jersey degree:  master of education Maj-Britt Kristina Frenze, vienna, virginia degree:  master of Theological studies Joseph Michael Funk, Gaithersburg, maryland degree:  master of education 
John Erik Fyrqvist, friday harbor, Washington degree:  master of divinity major subject:  Theology 
*Ashley Marie Gabriel, cambridge, massachusetts degree:  master of arts in educational administration *April Michelle García, culver city, california degree:  master of arts in educational administration 
Nicholas Mitchell Garcia, covington, virginia degree:  master of sacred music major subject:  Theology 
Bridget Marie Gartenmayer, atchison, Kansas degree:  master of education Kathryn Anne Gerbich, ocean springs, mississippi degree:  master of education 


*Maria Del Pilar Giannini Bravo, ann arbor, michigan degree:  master of arts major subject:  Political science 
Ryan Willard Gillespie, london, ohio degree:  master of education Annelyse Rose Giovannitti, venetia, Pennsylvania degree:  master of education *Amy Louise Giroux, Grand haven, michigan degree:  master of arts in educational administration 
Ryan P. Glenn, mountain top, Pennsylvania degree:  master of divinity major subject:  Theology 
Samuel Matthew Glowinski, indianapolis, indiana degree:  master of education 
**Philipp Gollner, eggersdorf, austria degree:  master of arts major subject:  history 
Phillip Daniel Gonzalez, lakeland, florida degree:  master of education 
*Tami Jo Goy, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  Theology 
Emily Grecki, Bayside, new york degree:  master of fine arts major subject:  english Thesis: offerings director:  Prof. valerie l. sayers 
*Ashley Lyn Greene, merced, california degree:  master of arts major subject:  history 
Arthur David Gregg, saint louis, missouri degree:  master of arts major subject:  english 
Catherine Mary Hackbarth, milwaukee, Wisconsin degree:  master of sacred music major subject:  Theology 
*Sarah Janty Hallett, milwaukee, Wisconsin degree:  master of arts major subject:  Theology 
Rachel Rose Hamilton, fort Worth, texas degree:  master of education 
Jeehoon Han, incheon, People's republic of Korea degree:  master of arts major subject:  economics 
Colleen Marie Hannan, clarksville, maryland degree:  master of education Tyler Russell Harmsen, Bettendorf, iowa degree:  master of education 
*Anne Miller Harton, indianapolis, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  Theology 
Matthew Corey Hawk, lima, ohio degree:  master of education Lauren Marie Hefele, valley cottage, new york degree:  master of education *Susan Lucille Hendricks, lahaina, hawaii degree:  master of arts in educational administration 
*Kathleen Henry, columbus, ohio degree:  master of arts major subject:  Theology 
*Sr. Mary Martha Hetzler, O.P., memphis, tennessee degree:  master of arts in educational administration 
Laura Jean Hewins, catonsville, maryland degree:  master of education Henry Owen Hilston, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of Theological studies 
Erin Elizabeth Hinz, dallas, texas degree:  master of fine arts major subject:  art studio Thesis: mermaid Pinch: investigating identity and sexual subjectivity Within a Gendered system director:  Prof. maria c. tomasula 
Brianna Marie Hohman, virginia Beach, virginia degree:  master of education 
**Mark Francis Hoipkemier, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  Political science 
Benjamin Matthew Horton III, manchester, new hampshire degree:  master of education Stephanie Elizabeth House, laguna niguel, california degree:  master of education 
**Jessica Ann Hughes, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  english 
Abdulla M.Erfan Ibrahim, Giza, egypt degree:  master of arts major subject:  Peace studies 
Emily Ice, rye, new york degree:  master of education Anthony Bukyanagandi Isabirye, Jinja, uganda degree:  master of Theological studies 
Stefanie Elizabeth Israel, Portland, oregon degree:  master of arts major subject:  sociology Thesis: Pacification of rio's favelas and the Pacification of  the Pacifying Police: The role of mediation in community  Policing director:  dr. robert m. fishman 
Daniel Robert Jackson, natrona heights, Pennsylvania degree:  master of education Trevor Henry Jackson, new orleans, louisiana degree:  master of education 
Vincent Jauneau, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  romance languages and literature 
Andrew Gregory Jennings, Bedford, Kentucky degree:  master of sacred music major subject:  Theology 
Ana Maria Jimenez-Moreno, edison, new Jersey degree:  master of arts major subject:  english 
*Cristy Carmen María Jordán, fort Wayne, indiana degree:  master of arts in educational administration 
Marko Aleksandar Karadzic, Belgrade, serbia and montenegro degree:  master of arts major subject:  Peace studies 
Taras Igorevich Karaulshchikov, mishawaka, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  history 
Peter Francis Kelly, Belfast, ireland degree:  master of arts major subject:  Peace studies 
**Ryan Scott Kemp, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  Philosophy Sarah Ann Kennedy, Joliet, illinois degree:  master of education 


Ji Eun Kim, seoul, republic of Korea degree:  master of arts major subject:  Political science 
Emily Christine Kirkegaard, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of medieval studies *Martin Basil Kirkwood, Westfield, indiana degree:  master of arts in educational administration *Mark B. Kirzeder, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts in educational administration Shay Joseph Kleinpeter, Baton rouge, louisiana degree:  master of education 
*Lindsay Diana Klinker, fort Wayne, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  Theology 
*Nicole E. Knight, michigan city, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  english 
Sharon Elizabeth Kniss, harrisonburg, virginia degree:  master of arts major subject:  Peace studies 
*Margarita Konaev, afula, israel degree:  master of arts major subject:  Political science 
Aaron David Kortze, rockford, illinois degree:  master of sacred music major subject:  Theology 
Elizabeth Ann Kustusch, chicago, illinois degree:  master of divinity major subject:  Theology 
*Kelly Allyn Kuznicki, Bryon center, michigan degree:  master of arts major subject:  Psychology Thesis: a longitudinal examination of child symptoms of Psychopathology as a mediator Between marital conflict and  child involvement in interparental disagreements director:  dr. e. mark cummings 
Stephen Douglas LaBrecque, West springfield, massachusetts degree:  master of education 
Alice Elizabeth Ladrick, cincinnati, ohio degree:  master of fine arts major subject:  english Thesis: autobitchography director:  Prof. Joyelle mcsweeney 
*Patrick Robert Landry, chicago, illinois degree:  master of arts in educational administration 
**Quinn Nathaniel Lathrop, nevada city, california degree:  master of art major subject:  Psychology Thesis: The impact of Within-template systematic variation on response models director:  dr. ying cheng 
Elizabeth Ann Lawton, Palos verdes estates, california 
degree:  master of Theological studies Christina Marie Leblang, osceola, indiana degree:  master of Theological studies 
*Robert Bertrand Lester, Great falls, montana degree:  master of arts major subject:  economics Lynda Brigytt Letona Rodriguez, mishawaka, indiana degree:  master of fine arts major subject:  english Thesis: house of dark Writings director:  dr. orlando r. menes 
William DeCamp Liedl, Breezy Point, minnesota degree:  master of education *Kathryn Patricia Litzenberger, Walnut creek, california degree:  master of arts in educational administration 
*Linlin Liu, Zhuhai, People's republic of china degree:  master of arts major subject:  economics 
Ashley Kaye Logsdon, Pickerington, ohio degree:  master of education Maria Lisa Lee Lynch, seattle, Washington degree:  master of education Kathryn Macan, shawnee, Kansas degree:  master of Theological studies 
**Gregory Lawrence Macklem, elkhart, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  history and Philosophy of science 
Lucia Manzi, lissone, italy degree:  master of arts major subject:  Political science 
*Sr. Kateri Rose Masters, O.P., nashville, tennessee degree:  master of arts in educational administration 
Angel Daniel Matos, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  english 
*Michael Laurence Mauthe, neenah, Wisconsin degree:  master of arts in educational administration 
Mary Elizabeth Ashley May, springfield, missouri degree:  master of divinity major subject:  Theology 
Collen Mayer, montgomery, alabama degree:  master of divinity major subject:  Theology 
Melissa Sue McCauley, seattle, Washington degree:  master of arts major subject:  Peace studies 
**Elizabeth Anne McCourt, hingham, massachusetts degree:  master of arts major subject:  Political science 
Justin Michael McDevitt, conroe, texas degree:  master of arts major subject:  Political science 
Israel Nethaniah McGrew, Glenns ferry, idaho degree:  master of Theological studies 
Halle Maureen McGuire, columbus, ohio degree:  master of sacred music major subject:  Theology 
Michael Cody McLane, Kiowa, colorado degree:  master of education *John Finneran McMahon, saint Petersburg, florida degree:  master of arts in educational administration 
*Shanti Michael, selangor, malaysia degree:  master of sacred music major subject:  Theology 
Anthony Joel Miller, lexington, Kentucky degree:  master of Theological studies 
*Mark Anthony Mills, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  Philosophy Mousa Mohammadian, esfahan, iran degree:  master of arts major subject:  history and Philosophy of science 


*Alejandro Andres Montecinos, viña del mar, chile degree:  master of arts major subject:  economics 
Jaime Montes, el Paso, texas degree:  master of education Edel Ann Mooney, sacramento, california degree:  master of education 
Jenica Marie Moore, Kalamazoo, michigan degree:  master of fine arts major subject:  english Thesis: carsomnia director:  Prof. Joyelle mcsweeney 
Sarah Marie Moran, denver, colorado degree:  master of Theological studies 
Timothy Nicholas Mouton, C.S.C., houston, texas degree:  master of divinity major subject:  Theology 
Kayla Grace Mravec, lakewood, ohio degree:  master of divinity major subject:  Theology 
Stephanie Ann Mueth, mobile, alabama degree:  master of education William Robert Newkirk, rochester, minnesota degree:  master of education 
Hau Cong Nguyen, ho chi minh city, vietnam degree:  master of arts major subject:  economics 
**Anna Whitney Noice, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  english 
*Herath Mudiyanselage Nuwan Herath, Kandy, sri lanka degree:  master of arts major subject:  Peace studies Thesis: an assessment on Post-accord human rights  violations in nepal director:  dr. madhav r. Joshi 
David Miranda O'Brien, mobile, alabama degree:  master of arts major subject:  Peace studies 
**Christopher Ernest Ochoa, austin, texas degree:  master of arts major subject:  Theology 
*Gayle Ellen Ohrenberger, roswell, Georgia degree:  master of arts in educational administration 
Jakob Joseph Ollinger, fairhope, alabama degree:  master of fine arts major subject:  art studio Thesis: Popocalypse now: The rise of the Boy-men in Pop culture director:  Prof. William J. Kremer 
*Katie Marie Olson, chicago, illinois degree:  master of arts in educational administration 
Lindsay McClain Opiyo, franklin, tennessee degree:  master of arts major subject:  Peace studies 
*Meghan Elizabeth O'Rourke, tahoka, texas degree:  master of arts major subject:  Theology Heather Rachelle Parrish, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of fine arts major subject:  art studio Thesis: homing: an ontological investigation into the  nature of inhabitation director:  Prof. Jean a. dibble 
Stephen Chase Pepper, C.S.C., huntsville, alabama degree:  master of divinity major subject:  Theology 
*Daisy Marie Perez, Palatine, illinois degree:  master of arts in educational administration Stephanie Rose Pérez, houston, texas degree:  master of education 
*Clinton Allan Perry, orange, california degree:  master of arts major subject:  Theology 
Sarah Elizabeth Peters, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  Political science 
*Gina Marie Pignotti, middleton, Wisconsin degree:  master of arts in educational administration 
Kathryn Anne Pogin, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  Philosophy 
Daniel M. Ponisciak, C.S.C., Jenkintown, Pennsylvania degree:  master of divinity major subject:  Theology 
Kyle Douglas Potter, lexington, Kentucky degree:  master of Theological studies Christopher Charles Powers, haverhill, massachusetts degree:  master of education *Julie-Mae Blascoa Prepotente, shoreline, Washington degree:  master of arts in educational administration Michelle Renee Pruchnik, Windber, Pennsylvania degree:  master of education *Johann Joseph Aguas Qua Hiansen, manila, Philippines degree:  master of education 
Katherine Ann Quinlivan, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of divinity major subject:  Theology 
Martino Rabaioli, como, italy degree:  master of arts major subject:  romance languages and literature Thesis: "alla sua donna": leopardi's Poetics of absence director:  dr. sabrina ferri 
*Anna Malgorzata Rafalski, new Buffalo, michigan degree:  master of arts major subject:  Philosophy 
Daniel Scott Ranschaert, roanoke, indiana degree:  master of education 
Shashi Rani Regmi, Providence, rhode island degree:  master of arts major subject:  Peace studies Thesis: civil military relation in nepal: drawing lessons  from mozambique and el salvador director:  dr. david B. cortright 
Christopher Michael Rehagen, C.S.C., Jefferson city, missouri degree:  master of divinity major subject:  Theology 
Samantha Lynn Reich, harwood heights, illinois degree:  master of education Claire Therese Reising, rolling meadows, illinois degree:  master of arts major subject:  romance languages and literature Thesis: «c'était une grande victoire. Écrivez ça.» le  nationalisme français et algérien et la réception des films  autour de la guerre d'algérie co-directors:  dr. catherine Perry and  dr. alison rice 


**Gina Marie Riccardella, Wood-ridge, new Jersey degree:  master of arts major subject:  Political science 
*Kevin Joseph Rinz, university heights, ohio degree:  master of arts major subject:  economics 
*Gwendolyn Mercia Rodrigues, mount vernon, Washington degree:  master of arts in educational administration Mary Danehy Rogg, naperville, illinois degree:  master of education 
Samuel Duncan Carl Rostad, Great falls, montana degree:  master of arts major subject:  history 
*David Charles Rozek, Brooklyn Park, minnesota degree:  master of arts major subject:  Psychology Thesis: The developmental role of Perceived competence  on depressive symptoms director:  dr. anne d. simons 
Michael Darren Rudroff, tonawanda, new york degree:  master of arts major subject:  Political science 
Jayme Christine Russell, athens, ohio degree:  master of fine arts major subject:  english Thesis: as the World falls down director:  dr. Johannes Goransson 
Benjamin Joseph Russo, Bryan, texas 
degree:  master of education Andrew Collin Ryan, dallas, texas degree:  master of education 
Dasha Vladimirovna Safonova, mishawaka, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  economics 
Miguel Enrique Lindo Salazar, ann arbor, michigan degree:  master of education Cathleen Lucille Santos De La Rosa, denver, colorado degree:  master of education 
Natalie Carroll Sargent, cincinnati, ohio degree:  master of arts major subject:  early christian studies 
Doris Maholo Saydee, monrovia, liberia degree:  master of arts major subject:  Peace studies 
*Stephen Andrew Schad, houston, texas degree:  master of arts major subject:  Theology 
Anna Elizabeth Schiltz, minnetonka, minnesota degree:  master of education Samuel James Schneider, omaha, nebraska degree:  master of education 
**Solomon John Schneider, Brattleboro, vermont degree:  master of arts major subject:  Philosophy 
Katherine Marie Schober, new Berlin, Wisconsin degree:  master of education John Andrew Scimeca, mobile, alabama degree:  master of education 
**Garrett Benjamin Seelinger, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  english 
Gustavo Segura Chavez, santiago, chile degree:  master of arts major subject:  romance languages and literature 
Katelyn Ann Seprish, snow shoe, Pennsylvania degree:  master of fine arts major subject:  art studio Thesis: The strange hair and the Pretty nipple: an  investigation of the female Body as host, idol, and instigator director:  Prof. austin i. collins 
**John Joseph Shanley, edinburgh, united Kingdom degree:  master of arts major subject:  history 
*Jaime Lauren Shapiro, munster, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  Psychology Thesis: a multi-method approach to understanding the role of Psychosocial functioning in the context of dsm-5  Personality disorder diagnosis director:  dr. lee anna clark 
*Joseph Andrew Sheehan, Parma, ohio degree:  master of arts major subject:  Theology 
Ying Shen, chicago, illinois degree:  master of arts major subject:  economics 
Maurice Makhanu Sikenyi, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  Peace studies 
Catherine Ellen Sims, ridgefield, Washington degree:  master of arts major subject:  Political science 
**Michael A. Skaggs, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  history 
Elizabeth Grace Slamkowski, colorado springs, colorado degree:  master of education 
*Barbara Jane Sloan, atlanta, Georgia degree:  master of arts major subject:  Theology 
*Theresa Michelle Smart, Peoria, illinois degree:  master of arts major subject:  Political science 
Margaret Mary Smith, Watertown, Wisconsin degree:  master of divinity major subject:  Theology 
Matthew James Smith, Wheaton, illinois degree:  master of fine arts major subject:  design Thesis: Publishing as the critical Practice of Graphic design director:  Prof. robert P. sedlack 
*William Rudolph Smith, new orleans, louisiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  Philosophy **Katherine Lee Sorrell, houston, texas degree:  master of arts major subject:  sociology Thesis: The conditions of legitimacy: Perceptions of religion among elite scientists in the united Kingdom director:  dr. christian smith 


Mitchell Robert Speer, austin, texas degree:  master of education 
*Peter A. Stone, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  Theology 
*Sr. John Agnes Suh, O.P., nashville, tennessee degree:  master of arts in educational administration 
*Patrick John Sullivan, Bay shore, new york degree:  master of arts major subject:  Theology 
Alireza Taheri Araghi, tehran, iran degree:  master of fine arts major subject:  english Thesis: don't disturb, War in Progress director:  Prof. valerie l. sayers 
Mourad Makram Sinot Takawi, cairo, egypt degree:  master of Theological studies 
Kelly Taylor, norman, oklahoma degree:  master of arts major subject:  classics Thesis: Politics and Wine don't mix: reconciling contradictions in arrian's Anabasis director:  dr. christopher a. Baron 
Laura Jane Taylor, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of Theological studies 
Christine Marie Texeira, Kent, Washington degree:  master of fine arts major subject:  english Thesis: Whatever remains, however improbable director:  Prof. valerie l. sayers 
Daniel Joseph Thele, Burlington, iowa degree:  master of education Mark Edward Therrien, rocky mount, north carolina degree:  master of Theological studies 
*Alexis Nicole Thompson, flint, michigan degree:  master of arts major subject:  Psychology Thesis: event Boundaries and memory director:  dr. Gabriel a. radvansky 
Lucia Tiscornia, montevideo, uruguay degree:  master of arts major subject:  Political science 
*Jeffrey Michael Tolly, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  Philosophy 
*Peter Anthony Torsiello, mesa, arizona degree:  master of arts major subject:  Theology 
*Steven Michael Tortorello, tinley Park, illinois degree:  master of arts in educational administration Catherine Elizabeth Toupin, river forest, illinois degree:  master of education Derrick P. Toups, houma, louisiana degree:  master of education 
*Pamela Christine Tremblay, Granby, massachusetts degree:  master of arts major subject:  Theology Whitney Marie Turner, hillsboro, ohio degree:  master of education 
Peter Samir Jeries Twal, Baton rouge, louisiana degree:  master of fine arts major subject:  english Thesis: airplane mode director:  Prof. Joyelle mcsweeney 
Shane Robert Ulbrich, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of Theological studies 
Curtis Charles Urban, new Philadelphia, ohio degree:  master of arts major subject:  history 
Michael Theodore Urbaniak, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of divinity major subject:  Theology 
Aurelio Eduardo Valarezo Duenas, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  history 
Elizabet Emilova Valcheva, Kostenets, Bulgaria degree:  master of arts major subject:  Peace studies 
Matthew Stewart Van Hook, orange county, california degree:  master of arts major subject:  Political science 
*Eva Van Leemput, huldenberg, Belgium degree:  master of arts major subject:  economics 
Joseph Anthony VanderZee, Grand rapids, michigan degree:  master of education Erica Anne Vesnaver, atascadero, california degree:  master of education 
Kaushik Parasuram Viswanath, chennai, india degree:  master of fine arts major subject:  english Thesis: to stop train Pull chain & variations on the  mahabharata director:  Prof. azareen van der vliet oloomi 
Yasmin Vizcaino, oklahoma city, oklahoma degree:  master of education 
Jakub John Voboril, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  Political science 
*Kathryn Leigh Wagner, fort Wayne, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  economics 
Michael Andrew Wahl, West Warwick, rhode island degree:  master of Theological studies John Robert Wallace, fairfield, connecticut degree:  master of education 
Jing Wang, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  economics 
*Christopher Lee Weaver, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  Political science 
Amanda Michelle Rose Weickert, cincinnati, ohio degree:  master of Theological studies 
**Laura Marie Weis, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  history **Stefanie Celeste Wellons, augusta, Georgia degree:  master of arts major subject:  sociology Thesis: The variable effects of Perceived discrimination: a longitudinal analysis of latino heterogeneity in american  identity director:  dr. William J. carbonaro 


Samuel Joseph Wernick, dallas, texas degree:  master of education *Carla Anne West, monticello, minnesota degree:  master of arts in educational administration Caitlin Marie Westenberger, york, Pennsylvania degree:  master of education 
**Benjamin James Wetzel, terre hill, Pennsylvania degree:  master of arts major subject:  history 
*Brianne Jo Wetzel, alexandria, virginia degree:  master of arts in educational administration 
Jonathan Thomas Whitcomb, mequon, Wisconsin degree:  master of arts major subject:  english Thesis: foilsitheoireacht na Gaelige nua-aimsire: a case study on contemporary irish language Publishing and  Print culture director:  dr. Brian Ó conchubhair 
Daniel Isaac Whitehouse, owensboro, Kentucky degree:  master of divinity major subject:  Theology 
Megan Faith Whyte, mcallen, texas degree:  master of education 
James Crawford Francis Wiley, Granger, indiana degree:  master of sacred music major subject:  Theology 
*Kaitlyn Marie Willy, rolla, missouri degree:  master of arts major subject:  Theology 
Katherine Margaret Wilsey, Phoenicia, new york degree:  master of education 
*Amy Kristine Winkler, memphis, tennessee degree:  master of arts major subject:  Theology 
Carl Jonathan Wojtaszek, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of arts major subject:  economics 
James Joseph Wright, Buffalo, new york degree:  master of sacred music major subject:  Theology 
Timothy Paul Wymore, madison, Wisconsin degree:  master of education 
*Amy Elizabeth Yeagle, marshall, missouri degree:  master of arts major subject:  Theology 
Charles Yost, mishawaka, indiana degree:  master of medieval studies Raul Eduardo Zegarra Medina, lima, Peru degree:  master of Theological studies 
*Tihtina Zenebe Gebre, debrezeit, ethiopia degree:  master of arts major subject:  economics 
Qian Zhang, hebei, People's republic of china degree:  master of arts major subject:  Psychology  Thesis: methods for moderation analysis with missing data director:  dr. lijuan (Peggy) Wang Xiaoyi Zhang, People's republic of china degree:  master of arts major subject:  romance languages and literature Thesis: Il sommo piacere: The crescendo of love in the  Commedia 
director:  dr. christian r. moevs 


COlleGe OF eNGiNeeriNG 
Lauren Arta Assour, Walnut creek, california degree:  master of science in computer science and  engineering 
*Christopher Badi' Abdul-Wahid, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of science in computer science and   engineering 
Andrew Patrick Baumann, manitowoc, Wisconsin degree:  master of science in mechanical engineering Craig Michael Bonitsky, sarver, Pennsylvania degree:  master of science in mechanical engineering 
Katherine Christine Butler, elkhart, indiana degree:  master of science in electrical engineering Thesis: clock line fabrication and analysis for  nanomagnet logic director:  dr. Gary h. Bernstein 
**Juan Camilo Medina, Bogota, columbia degree:  master of science in mechanical engineering **Dustin Gregory Coleman, mishawaka, indiana degree:  master of science in aerospace engineering John Paul Dantonio, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of science in aerospace engineering 
**Jesse Davenport, Granville, ohio degree:  master of science in Geological sciences Thesis: a numerical approach to modeling the Geochemical  evolution of the lunar magma ocean director:  dr. clive r. neal 
**Nicholas Giovanni De Lucca, salem, Wisconsin degree:  master of science in aerospace engineering *Amin Doostmohammadi, Zanjan, iran degree:  master of science in mechanical engineering *Nicholas Anthony Galati, Portland, oregon degree:  master of science in mechanical engineering *Andrew Stephen Gillman, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of science in mechanical engineering Thomas Robert Gohndrone, midland, michigan degree:  master of science in chemical engineering **Temistocle Grenga, south Bend, indiana degree: master of science in mechanical engineering 
Anjin Guo, shangqiu, henan, People's republic of china degree:  master of science in electrical engineering Thesis: coverage Performance in cellular networks: spatial stochastic model fitting and asymptotic deployment Gain director:  dr. martin haenggi 
*Jin Hao, huanggang, People's republic of china degree:  master of science in aerospace engineering Michael Patrick Harter, menomonee falls, Wisconsin degree:  master of science in electrical engineering 
Cory Juwuan Hayes, alpharetta, Georgia degree:  master of science in computer science and   engineering 


**Nicholas Andrew Jaffa, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of science in aerospace engineering **Raj Kumar Jana, Kolkata, india degree:  master of science in electrical engineering 
Reid Johnson, springfield, illinois degree:  master of science in computer science and   engineering 
**Ryan Thomas Kelly, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of science in mechanical engineering *Elaine MacDonald, champaign, illinois degree:  master of science in mechanical engineering Joseph Stephen Manser, mooresville, north carolina degree:  master of science in chemical engineering 
Robert Ryan McCune, lake oswego, oregon degree:  master of science in computer science and  engineering 
Nicholas Dennis McNamara, cleveland, ohio degree:  master of science in chemical engineering 
**Dustin Thomas Mix, reed city, michigan degree:  master of science in civil engineering Thesis: empowerment model for Post-Quake  reconstruction of urban housing in haiti co-directors:  dr. tracy l. Kijewski-correa and  dr. alexandros a. taflanidis 
*Matthew David Mosby, mishawaka, indiana degree:  master of science in mechanical engineering 
**Estefan Miguel Ortiz, victoria, texas degree:  master of science in computer science and   engineering 
*Michael W. Penninger, niles, michigan degree:  master of science in chemical engineering Jubaid Abdul Qayyum, dhaka, Bangladesh degree:  master of science in electrical engineering 
Chad P. Quaglia, east Bridgewater, massachusetts degree:  master of science in civil engineering Thesis: novel, deployable origami-inspired shelters for forward operating Bases: design and optimization director:  dr. ashley P. Thrall 
Dallas Jesse Rensel, sanborn, new york degree:  master of science in chemical engineering Sushant Avinash Sabnis, fort Worth, texas degree:  master of science in electrical engineering *Clara Elizabeth Seaman, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of science in mechanical engineering 
*Peter Raymond Sempolinski, Painted Post, new york degree:  master of science in computer science and   engineering 
**Adam Edwin Smith, mishawaka, indiana degree:  master of science in aerospace engineering **Bo Song, hubei, People's republic of china degree:  master of science in electrical engineering 
**Michael Young Thompson, shokan, new york degree:  master of science in civil engineering Thesis: stratified flow Past a hill: application of the dividing streamline concept  director:  dr. harindra J. fernando 
Timothy John Vasen, south Bend, indiana degree: master of science in electrical engineering **Amit Kumar Verma, Kanpur, india degree:  master of science in electrical engineering 
*Ricky Garza Villarreal, Benicia, california degree:  master of science in Geological sciences Thesis: laboratory experiments on dispersive transport  across interfaces:  The role of flow cell edges and corners director:  dr. diogo Bolster 
Suresh Vishwanath, Bangalore, india degree:  master of science in electrical engineering *Christopher Andrew von der Mehden, harrison, arkansas degree:  master of science in chemical engineering Shibo Wang, liaoning, People's republic of china 
degree:  master of science in mechanical engineering Shiyan Wang, inner mongolia, People's republic of china degree:  master of science in mechanical engineering 
Sally Suzanne Williams, sioux city, iowa degree:  master of science in civil engineering Thesis: modernizing the system hierarchy for tall Buildings: a data-driven approach to system characterization   director:  dr. tracy l. Kijewski-correa 
Yang Yang, Jiangsu Province, People's republic of china degree:  master of science in computer science and  engineering Thesis: Bacterial diagnostic system for infectious diseases: siderophore-mediated capture and development of an sPr- Pi sensing Platform  director:  dr. Paul W. Bohn 
*Yang Yang, mclean, virginia degree:  master of science in chemical engineering **Fan Zhang, xingyang, People's republic of china degree:  master of science in electrical engineering **Xin Zhang, hefei, People's republic of china degree:  master of science in electrical engineering *Xinzhi Zou, linyi, shandong, People's republic of china degree:  master of science in electrical engineering 


COlleGe OF sCieNCe 
Ryan Timothy Ackmann, Pewaukee, Wisconsin degree:  master of science major subject:  applied and computational mathematics and statistics 
*Javier Alvarez Linera Del Rio, oviedo, spain degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
*Lorena Alvarez Sottil, mexico city, mexico degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
*Augustus John Amato, chicago, illinois degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
*Gabriela Michelle Medrado Austgen, sugar land, texas degree:  master of science major subject:  Global health **Hannah Rose Babbini, Burlington, ontario, canada degree:  master of science major subject:  chemistry 


*Melissa Ann Baranay, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of science major subject:  Global health 
*William Kenneth Bauder, Warrington, Pennsylvania degree:  master of science major subject:  Physics 
Erin Suzanne Bela, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of science major subject:  mathematics 
Hillary Caroline Bengtsson, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
*Matthew John Berg, Grayslake, illinois degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
*Amy Renee' Billow, cincinnati, ohio degree:  master of science major subject:  Global health 
Andrew Brinkerhoff, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of science major subject:  Physics 
Zachary Jordan Brown, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of science major subject:  Global health 
*Michael Gerard Burton, Jr., lakeville, minnesota degree:  master of science major subject:  Global health 
*Brian Robert Bush, elmira heights, new york degree:  master of science major subject:  Global health 
Annie Castner, tustin, california degree:  master of science major subject:  applied and computational mathematics and statistics 
*Shannon Marie Cawley, Willimantic, connecticut degree:  master of science major subject:  Global health 
*Chih-Hung Chang, taipei, taiwan degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
Tegan Marguerite Chapman, richmond, virginia degree:  master of science major subject:  applied and computational mathematics and statistics 
*Dishi Chen, chongqing, People's republic of china degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
Alexander Patrick Chopp, Grand rapids, michigan degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
John Robert Clifford, stillwater, minnesota degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship Danny Howard Cole, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
Daniel Michael Collins, Bray, ireland degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
*Tomás Christopher Collins, carrigmore, ireland degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
**Chrysovalantis Constantinou, Pafos, cyprus degree:  master of science major subject:  Physics 
*Stephanie Noel Cripps, novi, michigan degree:  master of science major subject:  Global health 
**Dominic Leon Culver, davenport, iowa degree:  master of science major subject:  mathematics 
**Matthew Robert Dawley, dover, new hampshire degree:  master of science major subject:  Biochemistry 
*Sarah Thai Dawson, seabeck, Washington degree:  master of science major subject:  Global health 
*Michael Doughney Dineen, ormond Beach, florida degree:  master of science major subject:  Global health 
*Mackenzie Renee Dome, south lyon, michigan degree:  master of science major subject:  Global health 
Lucile Marie Driscoll, hingham, massachusetts degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
*Brett Michael Ensor, heath, texas degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
Joseph Timothy Fallon, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of science major subject:  applied and computational mathematics and statistics 
Fanghui Fan, huanghua, People's republic of china degree:  master of science major subject:  applied and computational mathematics and statistics 
*Natasha Antionette Flores, san antonio, texas degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
Bianca Julia Fox, shingle springs, california degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
*Mark Evan Fraser, Granger, indiana degree:  master of science major subject:  Global health Yuan Gao, fuxin, People's republic of china degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 


Fernando Antonio Garcia, caracas, venezuela degree:  master of science major subject:  applied and computational mathematics and statistics 
*Brianna McCarrick Geary, new rochelle, new york degree:  master of science major subject:  Global health 
Xu Han, Qiqihaer, People's republic of china degree:  master of science major subject:  Physics 
Joseph Dustin Handen, voorheesville, new york degree:  master of science major subject:  Patent law 
Conor Edward Hanley, athlone, ireland degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
*Ian Michael Harrier, montague, michigan degree:  master of science major subject:  chemistry 
**Akram Mohammad Hazeen, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of science major subject:  chemistry 
*Steven Thomas Helak, tampa, florida degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
Nathan Higgins, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
**Michael Allen Hood, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
*Jingchao Huang, Beijing, People's republic of china degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
*Colleen Marie Huml, Wheaton, illinois degree:  master of science major subject:  Global health 
Lawrence Okobo Itela, nairobi, Kenya degree:  master of science major subject:  chemistry 
*Ashley Elizabeth Kalinauskas, vernon, connecticut degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
*Brian Matthew Kaltenecker, Burbank, california degree:  master of science major subject:  Global health 
David Michael Klecyngier, chicago, illinois degree:  master of science major subject:  Global health Jessica Muriel Kowalik, rochester, new york degree:  master of science major subject:  Biological sciences Thesis: epidemiological modeling of a Bioterrorist attack on the i-95 corridor director:  dr. Benjamin ridenhour 
*Kelly Elizabeth Kraus, rocky river, ohio degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
Marcy Marie Kreimier, rifle, colorado degree:  master of science major subject:  Global health 
Marika Kathleen Kuspa, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of science major subject:  Biological sciences Thesis: targeting and recognition of Proteins Within the  mycobacterial esx-1 secretion system director:  dr. Patricia a. champion 
*Kevin Michael Leach, Kentwood, michigan degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
Joshua Mitchell Lee, santa clarita, california degree:  master of science major subject:  Global health 
Benjamin Dale Lewis, south haven, michigan degree:  master of science major subject:  mathematics 
*Lu Li, People's republic of china degree:  master of science major subject:  applied and computational mathematics and statistics 
Sean Colin Liebscher, colorado springs, colorado degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
Linlin Liu, Zhuhai, People's republic of china degree:  master of science major subject:  applied and computational mathematics and statistics 
*Stephanie M. Lyons, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of science major subject:  Physics 
Michael Benjamin Machen, chicago ridge, illinois degree:  master of science major subject:  applied and computational mathematics and statistics 
*Obiomachi Madukoma, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of science major subject:  Global health 
*Abel Manumbu, Berrien springs, michigan degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
Keith Joseph Marrero, Jr., new orleans, louisiana degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
**Christopher Thomas Matthews, chester, virginia degree:  master of science major subject:  Physics *Shane Paul McCarthy, cork, ireland degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 


*Colleen Marie McKenna, ellicott city, maryland degree:  master of science major subject:  Global health 
*Shane Cathal McQuillan, co monaghan, ireland degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
*Vinicius Sa Rego Melo, newton, massachuessetts degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
*Qingchen Meng, Beijing, People's republic of china degree:  master of science major subject:  applied and computational mathematics and statistics 
Amanda Genevieve Miller, madison, Wisconsin degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
*Dustin Thomas Mix, reed city, michigan degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
Rose Louise Moller-Jacobs, rockford, illinois degree:  master of science major subject:  Patent law 
*Margaret Ann Morgan, edina, minnesota degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology entrepreneurship 
Ciaran Michael Murphy, Glantane, co. cork, ireland degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
**Eras Roy Noel III, Palmdale, california degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
*Brittany Ann Ockenfels, sault sainte marie, michigan degree:  master of science major subject:  Global health 
*Conor James O'Donoghue, clonakilty, co. cork, ireland degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
*Karen Marie Ostdiek, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of science major subject:  Physics 
*Cornelius Anthony O'Sullivan, le vallot, Knockmanagh, Killarney, co. Kerry, ireland degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
*Spencer Douglas Parry, loxahatchee, florida degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship Samuel David Pecoraro, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of science major subject:  Biological sciences 
Finnian Jacob Pegler, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
*Ann Marie Polcari, ridgewood, new Jersey degree:  master of science major subject:  Global health 
Kailash Ramaswamy Krishna Kumar, hyderabad, india degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
Leila Amery Galang Ranis, daly city, california degree:  master of science major subject:  chemistry Thesis: synthesis and characterization of Group vi metal complexes for non-classical oxygenation reactions director:  dr. seth n. Brown 
*Joshua Allen Reavis, yukon, oklahoma degree:  master of science major subject:  Biochemistry 
**Sarah Catherine Reiff, mount Prospect, illinois degree:  master of science major subject:  Physics 
**Yihui Ren, changsha, People's republic of china degree:  master of science major subject:  Physics 
Patrick Clarence Rice, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
Luis Ernesto Saumell San Martin, miami, florida degree:  master of science major subject:  mathematics 
*Ashley Marie Scott, Winter springs, florida degree:  master of science major subject:  Global health 
Elaine Ellen Seasly, tucson, arizona degree:  master of science major subject:  Patent law 
Niels Daniel Seim, tarrytown, new york degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
**Allison Renee Showalter, altoona, iowa degree:  master of science major subject:  Physics 
Shaylyn Brooke Sikorski, livonia, michigan degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
Mallory Kaylynne Smith, mishawaka, indiana degree:  master of science major subject:  Physics 
*Mark Christopher Snelling, stone mountain, Georgia degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship Ling Sun, anshan, People's republic of china degree:  master of science major subject:  applied and computational mathematics and statistics 


**Almaz Taye, columbus, ohio degree:  master of science major subject:  Biological sciences 
Vishnu Ranjan Thaver, deland, florida degree:  master of science major subject:  applied and computational mathematics and  statistics 
Alysha McGroddy Thomas, ridgefield, connecticut degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
Eric Jacob Tilley, albuquerque, new mexico degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
*Iogann Tolbatov, Krasnodar, russia degree:  master of science major subject:  Physics 
Michael Albert Tomchaney, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of science major subject:  Biological sciences Thesis: examination of the developmental neurogenetic  Basis of sexual dimorphism in Aedes aegypti director:  dr. molly duman-scheel 
Alejandro Manuel Vargas, el Paso, texas degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
Weijia Wang, shanghai, People's republic of china degree:  master of science major subject:  mathematics 
Katherine Elizabeth Ward, arkadelphia, arkansas degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
MacKenzie Warren, Portland, oregon degree:  master of science major subject:  Physics *Zachary Thomas Wehrmann, hudson, ohio degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
Rose Kerry Weisshaar, madison, Wisconsin degree:  master of science major subject:  mathematics 
**Kalpani Werellapatha, colombo, sri lanka degree:  master of science major subject:  Physics 
*Melissa Mae White, Winter springs, florida degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
*Cheng-Hao Wu, taiwan degree:  master of science major subject:  applied and computational mathematics and statistics 
**Min Yu, Wuhan, People's republic of china degree:  master of science major subject:  chemistry 
Hanako Zeidenberg, south Bend, indiana degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
*Jialan Zhang, shijiazhuang, People's republic of china degree:  master of science major subject:  engineering, science & technology  entrepreneurship 
*Tingting Zhang, People's republic of china degree:  master of science major subject:  applied and computational mathematics and statistics 
*Jing Zhao, fuzhou, People's republic of china degree:  master of science major subject:  applied and computational mathematics and statistics 
* graduated august 7, 2013 ** graduated january 5, 2014 



the deGree OF master OF BusiNess admiNistratiON ON: 
Candidates for degree May 17, 2014 
Alana Faye Abisdris, chicago, illinois Richard Michael Adams, south Bend, indiana Ilgiz Vasilovich Akhmetshin, cum laude, moscow,  
russian federation Alexandru Aleman, magna cum laude, sibiu, romania Ryan Warren Andersen, cum laude, lake Bluff, illinois Thomas Fitzwilson Anderson, cum laude, Glencoe, illinois Marcus Chad Arroyo, tomkins cove, new york Tamara Elaine Ashworth, new york, new york Jason Michael Aubuchon, south Bend, indiana Christopher Thomas Awad, marlboro, new Jersey Müslüm Aydogmus, ankara, turkey Aaron Laird Backman, magna cum laude, consul, canada Anthony John Baerlocher, cum laude, henderson, nevada James Maher Bagley, Jr., chicago, illinois Kathleen A. Bak, cum laude, Glenview, illinois Daniel Wesley Baker, chapel hill, north carolina Mitchell Barthelemy, cum laude, saint cloud, minnesota Tyler Adam Bartlow, magna cum laude, long Grove, illinois Emily Batts Rincon, Greensboro, north carolina Brett Michael Belock, south Bend, indiana Kathryn Ann Beltrone, cum laude, Great falls, montana Kathryn Anne Bennett, eden, new york Jessica G. Bonanno, orlando, florida Laura Elizabeth Boova, magna cum laude, summit, new Jersey David A. Boyle, magna cum laude, arlington heights, illinois Katherine Grace Pergantides Boyle, cum laude, chicago, illinois 
H. Thomas Wren Briggs, magna cum laude, fruitport, michigan Choni Brooke Brinkley, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Ryan Cornelius Brogan, Beach haven, new Jersey Meredith Lynne Bronk, magna cum laude, rockford, michigan Lott Joseph Brooks IV, houston, texas Kristine S. Brothers, magna cum laude, noblesville, indiana John A. Brunell, cum laude, shrewsbury, massachusetts Jeremy Vaughn Bryant, cum laude, Zionsville, indiana Joseph Louis Bullock, magna cum laude, tulsa, oklahoma Patrick Edward Burns, cum laude, Brighton, michigan Cathy Ann Bush, seminole, florida Kristen Keenan Cahill, latham, new york Gerardo Campos-Tello, chicago, illinois Joseph Edward Carman, cynthiana, Kentucky Andres Felipe Carrillo Valdes, Bogota, colombia Elie Chammah, cum laude, montreal, canada Timothy Gordon Chapman, magna cum laude, rochester,  
new york Marc A. Chappron, cum laude, Bothell, Washington Nina Chaudhary, Granger, indiana Ramon Antonio Chen, cum laude, oswego, illinois Brennan K. Clark, magna cum laude, south hadley, 
 massachusetts Aaron Ben Cleavinger, cum laude, Plainfield, illinois Michael Francis Cohen, scarsdale, new york Jonathan Rupert Collins, oak Park, illinois Christopher Stephan Conley, magna cum laude, saint Joseph, 
 michigan 
Timothy Sean Corbett, osceola, indiana William John Corbett II, nashville, tennessee Matthew James Costerisan, cum laude, chicago, illinois Patrick Michael Cotter, olney, maryland Claire Elizabeth Coughlan, moraga, california Aaron Ellis Coulter, houston, texas Steven Philip Danford, cum laude, akron, ohio John Robert Davies, magna cum laude, tarrytown, new york Glen Anthony Davis, Granger, indiana Jodi Fay Davis, saginaw, michigan George E. Day, cum laude, lake forest, illinois Karen Irais De Arana Farfan, mexico, indiana Michael Lawrence DiDonna, magna cum laude, carmel, 
 indiana Jo Ann Doherty, cum laude, Palos hills, illinois Matthew Dolgin, magna cum laude, chicago, illinois Laurence E. Dooley, Jr., evanston, illinois Conor Kevin Douglass, cum laude, Glen ellyn, illinois Timothy James Doyle, magna cum laude, Goshen, indiana Michael Patrick Drumm, cum laude, highland Park, illinois Michael Patrick Dunbar, magna cum laude, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania Colin Robert Dunn, chevy chase, maryland Erik Eglite, lake forest, illinois Cory Alexander Eyler, Westfield, indiana Stephanie Marie Faint, magna cum laude, courtenay,  
British columbia, canada Kathy Peichi Fan, magna cum laude, Walnut, california Carlos Farah Orozco, magna cum laude, Guadalajara, mexico Brendan Curtis Farley, sanford, north carolina Sean Michael Farnan, magna cum laude, elmhurst, illinois Christopher Farra, cum laude, cedar Grove, new Jersey Firas Hussam Fasheh, amman, Jordan Cathy Mae Margarette J. Favorito, magna cum laude, 
Quezon city, Philippines Joshua Michael Fitzgibbon, magna cum laude, Kalamazoo, 
 michigan Scott Fleck, cum laude, omaha, nebraska Daniel P. Fogarty, cum laude, chesterton, indiana Jennifer Linn Fomby, austin, texas Christopher Robert Francica, magna cum laude, huntsville, 
 alabama Michael William Frey, magna cum laude, Grand rapids, 
 michigan Anthony Thomas Fryar, cum laude, santa rosa, california Orlando Alfredo Gago Valera, venezuela Ivan Gantar, magna cum laude, chicago, illinois Joseph Adam Garcia, albuquerque, new mexico Prateek Garg, magna cum laude, indore, india Michael Paul Gerbasich, cum laude, south Bend, indiana Lisa Christine Gibboney, fairfax, virginia Nicholas John Phillip Gigantes, magna cum laude, Wayne, 
new Jersey Matthew Knapp Gish, cum laude, san antonio, texas Brady J. Gott, chicago, illinois Drew Alexandre Gray, Kingston, Jamaica Rebecca Nanette Green, cum laude, Portage, michigan Elizabeth Ann Greiner-Quiett, magna cum laude, indianapolis, 
 indiana Robert R. Grim, cum laude, West chester, Pennsylvania 


Ronald Eugene Grzegorzewski, cincinnati, ohio Wen Guan, shanghai, People's republic of china Jason Gerard Guindon, escanaba, michigan Evita Veronica Tanglao Guinto, Paranaque, Philippines Burak Gundogdu, magna cum laude, istanbul, turkey Dhruv Gupta, delhi, india Tyler Scott Haertzen, Wayzata, minnesota Philip Hague, magna cum laude, chicago, illinois Mohammed M. Haque, cum laude, crystal lake, illinois Casey Andrew Harper, cum laude, chicago, illinois Lauren Elizabeth Harville, Knoxville, tennessee Eric Jon Hauer, magna cum laude, chicago, illinois George Hayes III, cum laude, nutley, new Jersey Michael Bruce Heath, Jr., magna cum laude, denver, colorado Ryan Christopher Hefner, creve coeur, illinois Carlos Ricardo Henriquez Noriega, Panama city, Panama Luis Hernandez, chicago, illinois Nicholas Brian Herold, magna cum laude, lafayette, indiana Stephen Christopher Hill, crete, illinois Martin John Holguin, san diego, california Michelle Lynn Hudson, indianapolis, indiana Bradley Joseph Hunter, cum laude, calgary, alberta, canada Leslie Rai Iglesias, Grand rapids, michigan Jill Marie Inman, cum laude, troy, michigan Bruce L. Jacobson, cum laude, chicago, illinois Christopher Dalton Jenkins, orangeburg, south carolina David Peter Jensen, cum laude, south Bend, indiana Richard Daniel Jones, magna cum laude, saint louis, missouri Michael Brendan Joyce, magna cum laude, carmel, indiana Sean P. Kelly, Jr., mount sinai, new york Colm Patrick Kennedy, cork, ireland Matthew Sean Kernan, magna cum laude, deland, florida Salman Ali Khan, moorestown, new Jersey Eric Kim, cum laude, ridgewood, new Jersey Timothy Steven Kish, cum laude, mishawaka, indiana Brent Allen Kitts, magna cum laude, oregon city, oregon Patricia Miriam Klawitter, oak Park, illinois Robert James Klinger, hoffman estates, illinois John F. Kloecker, magna cum laude, chicago, illinois Michelle Marie Knepel, cum laude, monroe, Wisconsin Jason Krantz, Glen ellyn, illinois Thomas John Kraus, Birmingham, alabama Matthew David Kudija, cum laude, Paso robles, california Christopher Todd Kuhlmann, magna cum laude, arlington, 
 texas Nisha Kumar, south Bend, indiana Joseph John Kunst, magna cum laude, Plainfield, illinois Zachary Adam Kustok, magna cum laude, chicago, illinois Josephine K. Kwok, cum laude, san francisco, california Sree Harsha Lalam, cum laude, dyer, indiana Mark Las, frankfort, illinois Thomas Steven Laughner, carmel, indiana Nathan John Lazenga, cum laude, south Bend, indiana June Yoonjung Lee, magna cum laude, chicago, illinois Steven Lehmann, cum laude, ogden dunes, indiana Jeannette Dominique Lenear, chicago, illinois Keren Lockett, cum laude, chicago, illinois Michael James Lorenzen, chicago, illinois Eric Thomas Ludewig, hoffman estates, illinois Kimberly MacDonald, colts neck, new Jersey Gregory John Malenich, magna cum laude, Kettering, ohio John Paul Malette, Windsor, canada Kristina Malisic, chicago, illinois 
Okwuchukwu Emmanuel Malizu, south Bend, indiana Joseph Manica, magna cum laude, Grand rapids, michigan Christopher Michael Marty, cum laude, seattle, Washington Jeremy Morris Mason, magna cum laude, raleigh, 
north carolina Mark Jeffrey Mathieson, cum laude, lake forest, illinois Jeremy Craig Mattox, magna cum laude, huntsville, missouri Matthew J. Maye, cum laude, south Bend, indiana Gerald Scot Lawrence McCarron, cum laude, los angeles, 
 california Mary L. McCarthy, chicago, illinois Michael John McDonnell, magna cum laude, highland mills, 
new york Anna M. McKeever, Guatemala city, Guatemala Raymond F. McPartlin, cum laude, chicago, illinois Alexander Daniel McShea, cum laude, naples, florida Carol Kumar Mekala, cum laude, south Bend, indiana Thomas Sheldon Merkel, magna cum laude, saint louis, 
 missouri Benjamin Richard Miller, fox river Grove, illinois Richard J. Miller, atlanta, Georgia Wesley Andrew Mineau, magna cum laude, san diego, 
 california Ariel Fabrizio Molina, arlington, virginia Surya Narayana Moorthy, coimbatore, india Jackie Alita Morales, indianapolis, indiana Seth Michael Morales, indianapolis, indiana Elizabeth Anne Murdy, denver, colorado Chad Emanuel Myers, chesterton, indiana Nicole Neira Guerrini, Panama, Panama Lauren Alyssa Newton-John, Winter Park, florida Timothy James Noud, edwardsville, illinois Kevin Christopher Oakley, cum laude, huntington, 
West virginia Nicole Rose O'Connor, cum laude, Palos heights, illinois John O'Donnell III, fishers, indiana Frank Okunak, cum laude, Wayne, new Jersey Daniel James O'Mahoney, cum laude, elk Grove village, illinois Thomas Francis O'Toole, charlotte, north carolina Christopher Patrick Pagano, amherst, massachusetts Andrew Joseph Parysz, Wayne, new Jersey Myla Michelle Patterson, chicago, illinois David William Paul, cum laude, alpine, utah Jerome Robert Peaker, cincinnati, ohio Ashley Mae Phillips, cum laude, santa cruz, california Ross Anthony Plagman, cum laude, Wheaton, illinois Daniel Portilla Williams, cum laude, Quito, ecuador Leon Sanford Powell, cum laude, fairfax, virginia MaryAnn Pranke, rancho Palos verdes, california Shashi Shekhar Prasad, cum laude, Jamalpur, india Matthew Joseph Purdy, magna cum laude, leesburg, indiana Alexander James Quigley, cum laude, chicago, illinois Aaron Jon Quilliam, Burlington, Washington Beverly Mae Rah, cum laude, del city, oklahoma Melanie A. Ratchford, lindenhurst, new york Harold Treynor Ray IV, magna cum laude, Zionsville, indiana Maurice Alan Reed, magna cum laude, mason, ohio Thomas Paul Restivo, Bloomington, illinois Natalie Catherine Reynolds, magna cum laude, fishers, indiana Patrick Thomas Riley, rocky river, ohio John Peter Robertazzi, seattle, Washington Joshua William Roberts, cum laude, hoffman estates, illinois Robert Joseph Rohr, magna cum laude, lake forest, illinois Nichole Roman-Bhatty, cum laude, chicago, illinois Margot Graciela Romer Meneses, caracas, venezuela Stanton Roseman, spanish fork, utah Kevin Michael Roslen, sikeston, missouri Kathleen Rossi, naperville, illinois Kayla Elizabeth Rouse, cum laude, chino hills, california Daniel Dominick Rousseve, magna cum laude, Granger, indiana Howard Sadoskas, alma, michigan Rohan Joseph Saldanha, cum laude, forest hills, new york Keziah Samuel, new york, new york Hipolito Sanchez III, magna cum laude, Plymouth, indiana Lauren Terese Sanchez, los angeles, california Courtney Ann Sanger, cum laude, chicago, illinois Jonathon Jeremy Sawyer, santa ana, california Matthew O. Schad, magna cum laude, Grand rapids, michigan Demetra Canna Schoenig, south Bend, indiana William Ranck Schwartz, magna cum laude, Jackson hole, 


Wyoming David Luke Screnar, magna cum laude, Park ridge, illinois Stephen H. Sharpe, Benicia, california Aideen Caitlin Shea, chicago, illinois Murali Krishna Shesham, round lake, illinois Blaire Majerick Shrader-Bonacorsi, indianapolis, indiana Thomas Steven Sibo, cum laude, valparaiso, indiana Nikhil Brijinder Singh, mumbai, india Christopher D. Smith, cum laude, evansville, indiana Jason Ryan Smith, Wilsonville, oregon Karen Sivella Smith, magna cum laude, Knoxville, tennessee Scott Allen Snyder, hinsdale, illinois Raymond Mark Soper, Jr., Wheaton, illinois Andrew Lee Sparhawk, rexburg, idaho Jason Floyd Speckman, cum laude, danville, indiana Matthew Masao Spencer, Bloomington, indiana Melanie Spradling, magna cum laude, West Point, 
 mississippi Joseph Allen St. Amant, magna cum laude, chicago, illinois Jonathan Charles Stevens, chicago, illinois Tyler Etess Stockton, north stonington, connecticut Anthony David Storey, dupont, Washington Scott E. Sullivan, cum laude, stevensville, michigan Yunfei Sun, magna cum laude, Beijing, 
People's republic of china Nicklas Samuel Talarico, magna cum laude, fort Wayne, indiana Karl Taraporewalla, alta loma, california Ji-Soon Lee Telman, holland, michigan Aaron Michael Thorson, cum laude, schererville, indiana Paul Driscoll Toboni, san francisco, california Jackie Redfern Tomaszewski, cum laude, scottsdale, arizona Jason D. Torfin, Preston, idaho Tri Kiem Tran, sacramento, california Michelle Elizabeth Tremblay, cum laude, tonka Bay, minnesota Kerger Ryan Truesdell, san francisco, california Douglas J. Turner, cum laude, orem, utah Travis Edward VanderLoon, magna cum laude, south elgin, 
 illinois Andrew Gale Vaughn, chicago, illinois Ryan David Vaupel, cum laude, indianapolis, indiana Kesavan Nair Venugopal, columbus, indiana Peter Andrew Vignali, cum laude, south Bend, indiana Brian William Vitale, mishawaka, indiana Amy Leigh Voth, cum laude, Granger, indiana Peng Wang, People's republic of china 
Daniel Warren Webster III, magna cum laude, Bradford Woods, 
Pennsylvania Martin Henry Weeks, danbury, connecticut Braden Ross Weldy, middlebury, indiana James Robert Werner, Jr., cum laude, Palatine, illinois Kara Pennington Wieckowski, fishers, indiana Hilary Anne Wilson, monterey, california Patrick Michael Wolohan, magna cum laude, south Bend,  
 indiana Sanghoon Won, seoul, republic of Korea Michael Alan Wrapp, chandler, arizona Jeffrey Allan Wyatt, magna cum laude, cincinnati, ohio Yao Xie, magna cum laude, Ji'an, People's republic of china Mark Anthony Yuran, carrollton, Georgia Mark David Zanders, chicago, illinois Nicole Kaye Zee, West hills, california Jian Zhang, cum laude, shenyang, People's republic of china Nannan Zhang, tianjin, People's republic of china Yuanfang Zhu, Wuhan, People's republic of china Karl Andrew Zimmerman, louisville, Kentucky Kevin John Zimmerman, magna cum laude, Bettendorf, iowa John William Ziss, Jr., magna cum laude, cleveland, ohio Timothy Paul Zulich, magna cum laude, valparaiso, indiana 


the deGree OF master OF NONPrOFit admiNistratiON ON: 
Degree awarded August 7, 2013 Karen Da-An Chang, cum laude, south Bend, indiana Brenda Kae Hunsberger, cum laude, elkhart, indiana Eamon Ladewski, lansing, michigan Maureen Clare O'Neill, cum laude, fairfax, virginia Anna Kay Van Overberghe, summa cum laude, south Bend,  
 indiana 
Degree awarded January 5, 2014 David Michael Adams, Jr., magna cum laude, charleston, 
south carolina Douglas George Bielemeier, cum laude, mount angel, oregon Michael Joseph Callaghan, cum laude, Brooklyn, new york Mariana Diaz Munoz, cum laude, Guatemala city, Guatemala Greer Erin Hannan, magna cum laude, south Bend, indiana Seamus Kennedy, san diego, california China Ling Yee Kirk, cum laude, Portland, oregon Mary Caroline Liebman, cum laude, atlanta, Georgia Carrie Rose Morrow, magna cum laude, Kalamazoo, michigan Mark Edwin Odenwelder, cum laude, mountain lakes, 
new Jersey Robert Michael Penrose, cum laude, mishawaka, indiana Meghan Clare Walsh, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
Candidates for degree May 17, 2014 
Sheri Ann Aurenz, south Bend, indiana Cynthia F. Broderick, cum laude, Wilmette, illinois Christina Anthonnita Brooks, Granger, indiana Anne Michelle Reilly Frey, saint Petersburg, florida Sr. Jennifer Henry, cum laude, mishawaka, indiana Brendan Michael Kelly, cum laude, des Plaines, illinois Daniel Timothy Parziale, los angeles, california Elizabeth Pomerenke, magna cum laude, chicago, illinois 



the deGree OF master OF sCieNCe iN aCCOuNtaNCy ON: 
Degree awarded January 5, 2014 
Julian Joseph DiMelis, inverness, illinois Patrick Crowell Kane, aspen, colorado Joseph Anthony Lafata, saint louis, missouri Brett Roy Little, cum laude, mount sinai, new york Mary Katherine Valdivia, cum laude, coral Gables, florida Luyi Wang, magna cum laude, shanghai, 
People's republic of china Jiamin Wu, Jiangmen, People's republic of china Pierre Alain Yapo, Waukegan, illinois Wen Zhou, deKalb, illinois 
Candidates for degree May 17, 2014 Gregory David Anderson, magna cum laude, minneapolis, 
 minnesota Daniel Alex Aponte, oviedo, florida Mary Christine Astuno, Greenwood village, colorado Kristen Grace Bachteler, cum laude, West hartford, 
 connecticut Jason L. Bangerter, centerville, utah Katherine Elizabeth Bass, fort Worth, texas Wilbur Nahun Benitez, dallas, texas Eric John Biro, magna cum laude, frankfort, illinois Nicholas Robert Bleyer, cum laude, carbondale, illinois Hannah Lee Bliss, magna cum laude, ellisville, missouri Carl Robert Brinker, magna cum laude, Portland, oregon Jud Logan Brown, cum laude, speedway, indiana Samuel Thomas Brunner, magna cum laude, eau claire,  
Wisconsin Paula Marie Casini, magna cum laude, Burr ridge, illinois Nicholas Cecero, middletown, new Jersey Nicole Tyler Christiano, cum laude, saint Joseph, michigan Leah Constan-Tatos, Johannesburg, south africa Laura Ann Conti, cum laude, sewickley, Pennsylvania Aaron Chase Contreras, Pico rivera, california Ziniu Dai, cum laude, chongqing,  
People's republic of china William Peter Dailey, cum laude, foxboro, massachusetts Patrick Andrew Deere, north merrick, new york Andrew Don DePalma, ellicott city, maryland Nathan Ross Ferrier, cum laude, la crescent, minnesota Daniel John Finan, Woodridge, illinois Luke Edward Friedman, cum laude, Geneva, illinois Vernon Darryl Gair, Jr., south holland, illinois Louis William Ganser, south Bend, indiana Ian Christopher Gaule, magna cum laude, castleton,  
new york Brian Michael Gitschier, madbury, new hampshire Junichi Robert Hara, magna cum laude, Princeton Junction, 
new Jersey Chenxi Huang, cum laude, changchun,  People's republic of china Zhengyan Huang, cum laude, chongqing,  
People's republic of china Ashlee Lauren Hunt, magna cum laude, south Bend, indiana Alexander Baldwin Ivancic, Kenmore, new york Christopher Stephen Jennis, houston, texas 
Ian Oliver Johnston, magna cum laude, Jackson, Wyoming Shane David Kauffman, cum laude, naples, florida Michelle Lynn Kelly, cum laude, smiths, Bermuda Se Hyun Kim, south Bend, indiana Julia Kash Lassarat, houston, texas Kevin James Lenart, monroeville, Pennsylvania Alison Marie Leon, cum laude, littleton, colorado Daniel Gerard Leonard, magna cum laude, Glen ellyn, 
 illinois Lan Lin, cum laude, fuzhou, People's republic of china Yiwen Lin, cum laude, Qingdao, People's republic of china Matthew Stephen Lynch, magna cum laude, chesterfield,  
 missouri Thomas Patrick Maguire, cum laude, miami, florida Taylor Jon McGraw, charlottesville, virginia Megan Alexandra Morava, moon township, Pennsylvania Matthew Francis Mullaney, summa cum laude, livingston,  
new Jersey Connor William Myers, dix hills, new york Steven Richard Nebbia, magna cum laude, Waterloo, nebraska Patrick Robert Noonan, Wauconda, illinois Kevin James Overholt, naperville, illinois Christopher Andrew Paluf, Granger, indiana Zhao Peng, cum laude, tianjin, People's republic of china Brian James Phelan, cum laude, hoffman estates, illinois Kevin Andrew Pribil, rockville centre, new york Matthew Joseph Ramirez, clayton, california Brian Patrick Reynolds, cincinnati, ohio Jeffrey Michael Ritter, cum laude, hopewell township, 
new Jersey Rafael Joaquin Rivera, carolina, Puerto rico Johnathon Rojo, rancho cucamonga, california Nicholas Russell Romjue, Kennewick, Washington Erica Lynn Sackett, independence, ohio Tyler James Saucedo, Great Bend, Kansas Mitchell Kevin Schmitt, magna cum laude, sumner, iowa Adrian Michael Serles, Westville, indiana Devin T. Sheehan, littleton, colorado Xin Shen, nanjing, People's republic of china Meghan Shevlin, Whitestone, new york Sarah Catherine Smith, Garland, utah Andrew Joseph Swint, fort mill, south carolina Mairin Elizabeth Talerico, Wildwood, missouri Xinjie Tang, changsha, hunan, People's republic of china Pangxin Tao, cum laude, Guangzhou, People's republic of china Anthony J. Thomas, cum laude, roosevelt, new york Curtis Alan Vercruysse, Greenwood, indiana Lauren Ashley Walaszczyk, cum laude, houston, texas Patricia Anne Walsh, Woodridge, illinois Di Wang, cum laude, xiangyang, People's republic of china Megan A. Wiethoff, Weston, connecticut Andrew Fitzgerald Williams, magna cum laude, mcmurray,  
Pennsylvania Jinshan Xu, shanghai, People's republic of china Trevor Paul Yerrick, fort Wayne, indiana Ge Yu, nanjing, People's republic of china Xiaoying Angie Zhao, taishan, Guangdong, 
People's republic of china Ying Zhou, Qingdao, People's republic of china Alysha Marie Zimmerman, new Palestine, indiana Ryan Paul Zurcher, elgin, south carolina 



the deGree OF master OF sCieNCe iN BusiNess ON: 
Candidates for degree May 17, 2014 
Kathleen Mary Allare, south Bend, indiana Meredith Marie Angell, mason city, iowa Melissa Cabrera, Purchase, new york Kirsten Elizabeth Danna, holmdel, new Jersey Kellen Joseph Fitzpatrick, cum laude, Grand rapids, michigan Andrew Edward Foley, Watertown, south dakota Blair Arthur Fulnecky, mishawaka, indiana John Francis Griffin III, amherst, new hampshire Anni Jiang, Guangzhou, People's republic of china Caitlin Marie Kinser, cum laude, Bedford, indiana Raymond Paul Korson, magna cum laude, south Bend, indiana Sean Garrett Leahy, Granger, indiana Andrew Davies Lynch, cum laude, Gibsonia, Pennsylvania Caroline Christie Maloney, magna cum laude, frenchtown,  
new Jersey Thomas Henry Massman, mission hills, Kansas Michelle Catherine McCarthy, cum laude, new fairfield, 
 connecticut Megan Elizabeth Osterhout, mundelein, illinois Jeffrey Dylan Panebianco, cum laude, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania Kathryn Elizabeth Replogle, elkhart, indiana Richard John Righi, Jr., magna cum laude, Port Jefferson,  
new york Charles Joseph Rollino, magna cum laude, lander, Wyoming Kyle John Smith, rochester, new york John Egan Snell, cum laude, south Bend, indiana Murphy Thompson Stephens, cum laude, snowmass, colorado True Colton Sulier, Buchanan, michigan Justin Mark Tabit, Pacific Palisades, california Xitian Wang, cum laude, taizhou, People's republic of china Francis Timothy Williams, magna cum laude, Granger, indiana 


Degree awarded January 5, 2014 
**Ryan Donohue Hughes, new Windsor, new york degree:  master of architecture 
Candidates for degree May 17, 2014 
Elizabeth Thomson Babcock, clifton Park, new york degree:  master of architecture Geoffrey McCormick Bird, Kenilworth, illinois degree:  master of architecture 
Rodrigo Stuardo Bollat Montenegro, Guatemala city, Guatemala degree:  master of architectural design and urbanism 
Anthony Michael Catania, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania degree:  master of architecture Kristie Chin, Katy, texas degree:  master of architecture Miles Thomas Doyle, el Paso, texas degree:  master of architectural design and urbanism Kevin Daniel Enright, madison, Wisconsin degree:master of architecture William Joseph Gorman, Brooklyn, new york degree:  master of architecture Anna Grasso, cedar Park, texas degree:  master of architectural design and urbanism James Paul Kaleiokalani Hayes, honolulu, hawaii degree:  master of architectural design and urbanism 
Reinaldo Manuel Hernandez, miami, florida degree:  master of architectural design and urbanism Mark Albert Isinger, sherwood Park, alberta, canada degree:  master of architecture Kellen Andrew Krause, north royalton, ohio degree:  master of architecture Christopher Charles Miller, elgin, illinois degree:  master of architecture Patricia Sue O'Connor, madison, Wisconsin degree:  master of architecture Katherine Richmond Pierce, alfred, maine degree:  master of architecture Thomas Anton Sekula, santa Barbara, california degree:  master of architectural design and urbanism Joshua Shearin, oak ridge, tennessee degree:  master of architecture 
Joel Edward VanderWeele, Palos heights, illinois degree:  master of architecture and  master of architectural design and urbanism 
Qing Xue, Jilin, People's republic of china degree:  master of architecture Geoffrey Peter Yovanovic, Jacksonville, florida degree:  master of architectural design and urbanism 



the deGree OF JURIDICAE SCIENTIAE DOCTOR ON: 
Degree awarded January 5, 2014 
Mirakmal Niyazmatov, Bethesda, maryland 


the deGree OF LEGUM MAGISTER ON: 
Degree awarded August 07, 2013 Sara Milena Ferrer Valencia, cum laude, medellín, colombia Bruno Rodriguez Reveggino, summa cum laude, arequipa, Peru 
Degree awarded January 5, 2014 
Christopher Robin Campbell-Duruflé, summa cum laude, montréal, canada 
Francis Jerome Madden, magna cum laude, Windsor, united Kingdom 
Candidates for degree May 17, 2014 
Dillorom Abdulloeva, Washington, district of columbia 
Mustafa Ahmed, magna cum laude, Karachi, Pakistan 
Juan Pablo Aleman Izaguirre, torreon, mexico 
Rodrigo José da Costa Sales, manaus, Brazil 
Federica Dalla Pria, milan, italy 
Gerel Dondovdorj, ulaanbaatar, mongolia 
Violet Aretha Dzingirai, harare, Zimbabwe 
Sarah Frost, magna cum laude, tucson, arizona 
Peter Jacob Gill, cum laude, lahore, Pakistan 
Orinda Gjoni, tirana, albania 
Andrea Guadarrama Prado, Queretaro, mexico 
Xin He, cum laude, lanzhou, People's republic of china 
Haja Saramba Kandeh, freetown, sierra leone 
Elham Kazemi, magna cum laude, tehran, iran 
Maria Chiara Massetti, cum laude, roseto degli abruzzi, italy 
Amanda Khulekani Vuka Mfuphi, cum laude, verulam, south africa 
Mostafa Essam Shaat, cairo, egypt 
Caroline Wambui, nairobi, Kenya 


the deGree OF JURIS DOCTOR ON: 
Degree awarded August 7, 2013 
Elizabeth Ann Ostroski, Branchburg, new Jersey 
Degree awarded January 5, 2014 
Brianna E. Sims, toronto, ontario, canada 
Candidates for degree May 17, 2014 Morgan Lindsay Adams, cum laude, Baltimore, maryland Maryam Hanniah Arfeen, valparaiso, indiana Laura Shriver Aronsson, cum laude, shelburne, vermont Kevin Douglas Battle, Jr., muskegon, michigan Kathryn Anne Bennett, eden, new york Jason J. Blakley, cum laude, Boise, idaho Christopher William Bok, new york, new york Mary Elizabeth Brady, cum laude, Buffalo, new york Lena Brinjikji, West Bloomfield, michigan Hannah Christie Brothers, Pensacola, florida Reed William Burritt, eagle river, alaska Caitlin Marie Carlin, rocky river, ohio Alysia Brittani Carroll, Pasadena, california Anthony John Carucci, cum laude, Thousand oaks, california Patrick Ryan Cassidy, summa cum laude, Brookfield, Wisconsin Nathan Samuel Catanese, cum laude, Johnstown, Pennsylvania Jason Emil Cellier, cum laude, Port clinton, ohio Timothy Gordon Chapman, cum laude, rochester, new york Elizabeth Danford Charnowski, cum laude, saint louis, 
 missouri Alla Cherkassky, niles, illinois Henry Gregory Ciocca III, magna cum laude, fairfield, 
 connecticut Armando Cordoves, Jr., cum laude, miami, florida Sylvia Grogan Costelloe, magna cum laude, Washington, 
district of columbia Veronica Krystyna Couzo, magna cum laude, Buffalo,  
new york Trevor Lawrence Currie, Peru, illinois Sabina Beata Danek, northbrook, illinois Casey Chandler Daniels, tustin, california Daniel Joseph Daugherty, new castle, Pennsylvania Erin Michelle Davis, cum laude, florida, new york Stephen Michael Degenaro, magna cum laude, Poland, ohio Christine Joy de Leon, downey, california Adam Bernard Diaz, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Leslie Ann Dickinson, Grand rapids, michigan Maria Christina Doerflinger, silver spring, maryland Kristian A. Dorschner, tucson, arizona Patricia Genevieve Duret, sarasota, florida Brian Richard Ellixson, cum laude, havertown, Pennsylvania Erin Thornton Escoffery, noblesville, indiana Bryan William Evans, cleveland, ohio Israel Fajardo, cum laude, miami, florida James Andrew Feigenbaum, norwalk, connecticut Maria Del Puerto Fernandez Sanchez, el Paso, texas Brian Patrick Fox, summa cum laude, shamokin dam, 
Pennsylvania Grace Anne Fox, cum laude, evansville, indiana Jacquelyn Erin Fradette, magna cum laude, framingham, 
 massachusetts Martin Edward Garry, cum laude, morris, illinois Gregory Bohan Ge, cum laude, los angeles, california Christina Marie Giardina, upper holland, Pennsylvania Thomas John Giardina, Wheaton, illinois Michael Edward Grathwol, magna cum laude, sandusky, ohio Arthur David Gregg, saint louis, missouri Lauren Mogavero Grindall, erie, Pennsylvania Taylor A. Grogan, cum laude, mastic, new york Krysta Kaye Gumbiner, schererville, indiana Rachel Renee Hanley, houston, texas Anderson Charles Hatfield, magna cum laude, albuquerque, 
new mexico Jaclyn Lee Heibel, lincoln, nebraska Jon Gregory Heintz, summa cum laude, erie, Pennsylvania Kelly Kathleen Herson, cum laude, mishawaka, indiana Christopher Thomas Hinman, cum laude, horseheads, 
new york Robert Thomas Howard, cum laude, chesapeake, virginia Lynn Hsieh, new york, new york Robert Totten Isham III, cum laude, lake Bluff, illinois 


Preetha Jayakumar, sugar land, texas Jay Jungju Jin, seoul, republic of Korea Angela Nicole Johnson, cum laude, south Bend, indiana Lynn Marie Kaiser, cum laude, new canaan, connecticut Nicholas Jacob Kamenjarin, chicago, illinois Kyle Robert Kane, Boonsboro, maryland Brandon Michael Karas, dallas, texas Chelsey Noelle Kelso, magna cum laude, east aurora, new york April Dawn Kentala, darien, illinois Paul R. Kerridge, magna cum laude, south Bend, indiana John Anthony Kerrigan, youngstown, ohio Michael Robert Kilgarriff, eagan, minnesota Kiely Danielle King, holland, michigan Elizabeth Ashton Klesmith, Grand rapids, michigan Daniel Han Ko, seoul, republic of Korea Theodore John Koroshetz, south Bend, indiana Nicole Aileen Kratzer, Geneseo, Kansas Steven Mark Krommendyk, Grandville, michigan Jane P. Kwak, cum laude, north olmsted, ohio Ryne Timothy Leake, Powell, ohio Katelyn Patricia Lentz, cum laude, Baltimore, maryland John James Lisy IV, cum laude, shaker heights, ohio Colin Robert Littlefield, loudonville, new york Leigh DeAnn Loman, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Aaron Michael Lumpkin, mesa, arizona Lauren Anne-Marie Lyman, los angeles, california Stephanie Ann Maloney, cum laude, Barrington, rhode island Ashley Marie Marcos, Burlington, Kentucky Alicia Marie Massi, new hartford, new york Justin Joseph Mayor, tampa, florida William Stanton McClintock, summa cum laude, Greenville, 
south carolina 
Maureen Lorraine McCluskey, cum laude, Belle harbor, new york 
Andrew John McKeon, cum laude, austin, texas 
Ryan S. McNish, Jackson, michigan 
Jessica Mendoza, cum laude, miami, florida 
Geoffrey Robert Miller, cum laude, lenox, massachusetts 
Gregory John Mitchell, summa cum laude, falls church,  virginia 
Michael James Mogavero, erie, Pennsylvania 
Kristian Rus Mukoski, cum laude, crown Point, indiana 
Heather Kathleen Murphy, new york, new york 
Kevin John Murphy, summa cum laude, carmel, indiana 
Mark Andrew Nelson, san dimas, california 
Panashe Philip Nhekairo, atlanta, Georgia 
Jason Charles O'Brien, magna cum laude, chicago, illinois 
Chrystal Ann O'Connor, englewood, florida 
Matthew Martin O'Rourke, magna cum laude, Bloomingdale, illinois 
Geoffrey Franklin Palachuk, spokane, Washington 
Daniel Timothy Paluga, youngstown, ohio 
Bryan D. Pasciak, rockford, michigan 
Andrew Michael Pauwels, summa cum laude, rochester hills,  michigan 
Elizabeth Ashley Pfenson, magna cum laude, harwood,  maryland 
Michelle A. Pope, roswell, Georgia 
Alexander Tempinski Prasad, magna cum laude, novi, michigan 
Sheila Maureen Prendergast, cum laude, chicago, illinois 
Jordan Dale Pryor, cum laude, dallas, texas 
Matthew Brent Purcell, cum laude, Provo, utah 
Steven Alan Ramsey, Kansas city, missouri 
Christopher Scott Rapking, cum laude, cincinnati, ohio Natalie Helena Raver, Greensburg, indiana Sarah Elizabeth Morgan Reimers, Greenwich, connecticut Stephen Daniel Richter, oakland, california Brittany Thornton Riley, stoughton, Wisconsin Benjamin John Risacher, magna cum laude, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania Charles Michael Rodriguez, chicago, illinois Enrique Alvaro Romero, nambe, new mexico Kathryn Ann Rosenbaum, cum laude, oak lawn, illinois Bryce Andrell Rucker, Battle creek, michigan Craig Robert Russell, Jr., cum laude, fullerton, california Nicholas James Ryan, Plymouth, michigan Peter James Ryan, cum laude, ventura, california Howard Sadoskas, cum laude, alma, michigan Radhika Sarkar, saint Joseph, michigan Mathew John Saur, magna cum laude, sykesville, maryland Elizabeth Ann Scarola, tampa, florida Benton Mark Schallip, trenton, ohio Stacy Ann Schauvliege, Ponca city, oklahoma Alan Michael Sears, Gainesville, texas Alexander Xavier Shadley, cincinnati, ohio Alyssa D. Shaughnessy, saint louis, missouri John Joseph Sierotnik, magna cum laude, syracuse, new york Christina Marie Sindoni, cum laude, linwood, new Jersey Thomas Eamon Slattery, cum laude, new orleans, louisiana Brendan Charles Emil Smith, cum laude, long Grove, illinois Reid Franklin Smith, vincennes, indiana Andrew James Spica, Grand rapids, michigan Joseph Anthony Spina, northport, new york Adreanne Gabriel Stephenson, suffolk, virginia Megan Abigail Stewart, eagleville, Pennsylvania Christina Stylianou, staten island, new york Seara Sullivan, san francisco, california Justin Ross Summers, cum laude, West Bloomfield, michigan Meaghan LeNoir Tague, atlanta, Georgia Samantha Christine Thomas, largo, florida Christopher Michael Trahos, falls church, virginia Andrew Juan Turnier, cum laude, Palm harbor, florida Gavin Sanders Van Ausdeln, seattle, Washington Marta Gabrielle Vandenberg, new york, new york Ryan Lee VanStone, coldwater, michigan Charles Gerard Vargo, cum laude, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Walter Christian Waidelich III, cum laude, aliso viejo, 
 california Richard Lee Waller, cum laude, Broomes island, maryland Kristin Irene Walsh, magna cum laude, cave creek, arizona Nicole Amaya Watson, cum laude, Boise, idaho Megan Brooke Webb, magna cum laude, la verne, california Kristian Carew Smith Weir, cum laude, fargo, north dakota Brian Charles Wilson, cum laude, dallas, texas Kendall Maria Wilson, tampa, florida Ashley Diane Wood, lake forest, illinois Katherine Anne Woodward, magna cum laude, West chester, 
Pennsylvania Michael Alan Wrapp, chandler, arizona Brian James Wright-Bushman, magna cum laude, 
mission viejo, california Hang Kristie Xian, cum laude, sioux falls, south dakota Dibi Yao, Guangdong, People's republic of china *John David Zarate, tampa, florida Caroline Joanna Zogas, hinsdale, illinois 
*Participating with his/her class 






commencement exercises 
SUNDAY, MAY 18, 2014 
9:00 A.M. EDT NOTRE DAME STADIUM 
The college of arts and letters The college of science The college of engineering The mendoza college of Business The school of architecture 
169 th
university of notre dame commencement

Processional 
charles t. hurley iii, m.s.a., m.a. The university registrar 
Chief marshals 
michael desch Political science and Barry P. Keating finance 
mace Bearer 
Jeffrey c. Kantor chemical and Biomolecular engineering 
Processional music 
The notre dame concert Band Kenneth W. dye, ed.d., director 
Convening of the Convocation 
Thomas G. Burish, Ph.d. The Provost of the university 
america the Beautiful 
reverend James K. foster, c.s.c.  The notre dame concert Band, and audience 
O Beautiful for spacious skies, For amber waves of grain For purple mountain majesties Above the fruited plain. America! America! God shed his grace on thee, And crown thy good with brotherhood from sea to shining sea. 
—Bates-Ward 
invocation 
lisa marie taylor Byron center, michigan 
Valedictory 
mark Peter santrach north oaks, minnesota 
Citations for honorary degrees 
The Provost of the university 
the Conferral of honorary degrees 
richard c. notebaert The chairman of the Board of trustees and reverend John i. Jenkins, c.s.c. The President of the university 
introduction of speaker 
The President of the university 
Commencement address* 
ray alexander hammond ii 
Presentation of emeritus Faculty 
The Provost of the university 
Presentation of awards and Prize Winners 
The Provost of the university 
recognition of student academic achievements 
The Provost of the university 
Citation for the laetare medal 
The chairman of the Board of trustees 
Presentation of the laetare medal 
The Laetare Medal, the University of Notre Dame's highest honor, has been conferred annually since 1883 on American Catholic men and women who have served with distinction in their chosen fields of endeavor.  It is so named because the recipient is announced on Laetare Sunday, the Fourth Sunday of Lent 
Kenneth r. miller 
Presentation of the Candidates for degrees 
The Bachelor degree in the college of arts and letters John t. mcGreevy the i.a. o'shaughnessy dean of the college of arts and letters and Professor of history 
The Bachelor degree in the college of science Gregory P. crawford the William K. Warren foundation dean of the college of science and Professor of Physics 
The Bachelor degree in the college of engineering Peter K. Kilpatrick the mccloskey dean of the college of engineering and Professor of chemical engineering 
The Bachelor degree in the mendoza college of Business roger d. huang the martin J. Gillen dean of the mendoza college of Business and Kenneth r. meyer Professor of Global investment management 
The Bachelor degree in the school of architecture michael n. lykoudis the francis and Kathleen rooney dean of the school of architecture and Professor of architecture 


the Conferral of degrees 
The President of the university 
Charge to the Class 
The President of the university 
Closing of the Convocation 
The Provost of the university 
Notre dame, Our mother * (alma mater) 
reverend James K. foster, c.s.c., The notre dame concert Band, and audience 
Notre Dame, Our Mother, tender, strong and true Proudly in the heavens gleams thy gold and blue.  Glory's mantle cloaks thee, golden is thy fame And our hearts forever praise thee, Notre Dame; And our hearts forever love thee, Notre Dame. 
– O'Donnell-Casasanta 
recessional of the Platform Party, Faculty, and students 
* it is customary for men, although not for women, wearing academic garb to have their caps removed during the commencement address and the singing of the alma mater. 

43 

the deGree OF DOCTOR OF LAWS, HONORIS CAUSA, ON:  the deGree OF DOCTOR OF FINE ARTS, HONORIS CAUSA, ON:  
sally Kay mason  Judith Jamison  
iowa city, iowa  new york, new york  
seán Patrick cardinal o'malley, o.f.m. capuchin  
Boston, massachusetts  

the deGree OF DOCTOR OF ENGINEERING, 

HONORIS CAUSA, ON: the deGree OF DOCTOR OF HUMANE 

LETTERS, HONORIS CAUSA, ON: 
W. douglas ford 

downers Grove, illinois ray alexander hammond ii Boston, massachusetts evelyn lynn hu 
cambridge, massachusetts 







colleGe of arts and letters diPloma ceremony 
SUNDAY, MAY 18, 2014 
1:30 P.M. EDT JOYCE CENTER -PURCELL PAVILION 



169 th
university of notre dame commencement


colleGe of arts and letters 
Processional 
Processional music 
The notre dame concert Band Kenneth W. dye, ed.d., director lawrence h. dwyer, assistant director 
Convening of the Convocation 
John t. mcGreevy 
i.a. o'shaughnessy dean of the college of arts and letters and Professor of history 
invocation 
National anthem:  the star-spangled Banner 
Oh, say can you see by the dawn's early light What so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming? Whose broad stripes and bright stars thru the perilous fight, O'er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming? And the rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting in air, Gave proof through the night that our flag was still there.  Oh, say does that star-spangled banner yet wave O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave? 
—Key 
diploma Ceremony address 
John t. mcGreevy 
i.a. o'shaughnessy dean of the college of arts and letters and Professor of history 
distribution of diplomas (i) 
James Brockmole acting associate dean of undergraduate studies and associate Professor of Psychology 
John t. mcGreevy 
i.a. o'shaughnessy dean of the college of arts and letters and Professor of history 
special recognition 
distribution of diplomas (ii) 
John t. mcGreevy 
i.a. o'shaughnessy dean of the college of arts and letters and Professor of history 
Benediction Closing of the Convocation 
Notre dame, Our mother*– (alma mater) 
The notre dame concert Band and audience 
Notre Dame, Our Mother, tender, strong and true Proudly in the heavens gleams thy gold and blue. Glory's mantle cloaks thee, golden is thy fame And our hearts forever praise thee, Notre Dame; And our hearts forever love thee, Notre Dame. 
—o'donnell-casasanta 
Notre dame Victory march 
Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame, Wake up the echoes cheering her name, Send a volley cheer on high, Shake down the thunder from the sky. What though the odds be great or small Old Notre Dame will win over all, While her loyal sons are marching Onward to victory. 
—Shea-Shea 
recessional 
Recessional of the Platform Party, Faculty, and Graduates 
* it is customary for men, although not for women, wearing academic garb to have their caps removed during the commencement address and the singing of the alma mater. 


the deGree OF BaChelOr OF FiNe arts ON: 
Candidates for degree May 18, 2014 
William Wagner Carden III, Beaumont, texas Carolyn Chapin Green, cum laude, ridgefield, Washington Emily Ann Hoffmann, minnetonka, minnesota Peter Francis Kristiansen, mendham, new Jersey Maria Francesca Massa, cum laude, Gallatin, tennessee Jeffrey Thomas McLean, magna cum laude, Batavia, illinois Eileen Taylor Murphy, south Bend, indiana Nathalia Conte Silvestre, sao Paulo, Brazil James William Slaven, overland Park, Kansas Stephanie Lisa Wulz, cum laude, ramsey, new Jersey 


the deGree OF BaChelOr OF arts ON: 
Degree awarded August 7, 2013 
Ellen Embry Baldwin, floyds Knobs, indiana Michael Javier Bonilla, hialeah, florida Ian Douglas Cole, ann arbor, michigan Jonathan David Fisher, madison, indiana Matthew Ryan Fix, darien, illinois Andrew Gregory Hyrcza, cranberry township, Pennsylvania Kristen Mary Lasak, richmond hill, new york Sung Hun Lim, seoul, republic of Korea Madison Anne Mawby, chagrin falls, ohio Angel Miguel Chiu Mira, houston, texas Sade LaNay Martha Mary Murphy, houston, texas Alexandria Loren Musser, miami, florida Bebhinn Marie Priest, Warsaw, indiana Jordan Michael Rincon, las vegas, nevada Julianne Renee Rizzo, clovis, california Kevin Matthew Sandner, lake Bluff, illinois Courtney Helen Cosima Sippo, highland, illinois Matthew Ethan Suarez, magnolia, ohio Brock Sylvester Switzer, forestville, maryland Colby Charles Thoreson, cedar, michigan 
Degree awarded January 5, 2014 Amanda Brooke Bruening, cum laude, Grand Blanc, michigan Lisa Nicole Chin, Grafton, Wisconsin James Richard Clausen, agoura hills, california Victor Manuel Cruz, Jr., los angeles, california Caitlin Marie Cunningham, raleigh, north carolina Jonathan Lee Cunningham, Belleville, illinois Benjamin Michael Curl, cum laude, osceola, indiana Catherine Lee Dickerson, hudson, Wisconsin Louis Victor Marie Michel Douville de Franssu, Brussels, 
Belgium Louise Toms Fauth, alexandria, virginia Anna Catherine Fish, magna cum laude, indianapolis, indiana Killian Gustaf Frailey, madison, Wisconsin Moises Gonzalo Garcia Placencia, tulare, california Christine Victoria Gorman, cum laude, canonsburg, 
Pennsylvania Demitrios George Haldes, magna cum laude, chicago, illinois Brett P. Hummel, south Bend, indiana Tai-ler Fitzgerald Jones, roswell, Georgia 
Shawn Earl Kelly, West henrietta, new york Caitlin Anne Klein, cum laude, mishawaka, indiana Jessika Hope LaPres, cum laude, Grand rapids, michigan Nathan Holmes Lowe, cum laude, Grand rapids, michigan Daniel Conor Lucero-Dixon, south Bend, indiana Amanda Kate MacDonald, arlington, virginia James Clyde Moore Bermúdez, carolina, Puerto rico Adam James Newman, magna cum laude, evanston, illinois Collier Patrick O'Connor, indianapolis, indiana Nicole Esther Rodriguez, avon, connecticut Patrick Hugh Samuels, fairfax, virginia Prince Shembo, charlotte, north carolina Daniel Joseph Spond, littleton, colorado John Tirey Stallings, cum laude, Plymouth, michigan Vanessa Arlene Steger, saint louis, missouri Nicholas Andrew Tausch, Plano, texas Justin Dennis Utupo, long Beach, california Haixiao Wang, Beijing, People's republic of china Garrett Ward, louisville, tennessee Anastacia Camille Wells, rochester, minnesota Lorenza Lemar Wood, apopka, florida Daniel John Woods, Jr., chicago, illinois 
Candidates for degree May 18, 2014 Brittany Gabriella Abt, magna cum laude, coto de caza,  
 california Margaret Mary Adema, magna cum laude, san diego, california Zachary Michael Agudelo, Baltimore, maryland Jiyeon Ahn, salem, oregon Catherine Elizabeth Ake, cum laude, chatham, new Jersey Sarah Marie Albert, long Grove, illinois Christine Noel Allen, anaheim hills, california Juan Miguel Alvarez, colorado springs, colorado Krystal Leandra Alvarez, mahwah, new Jersey Robert David Alvarez, santa fe springs, california Rebecca DeVun Areaux, magna cum laude, metairie, louisiana Elizabeth Ann Arevalo, lomita, california Elizabeth Maureen Argue, magna cum laude, rochester,  
 michigan Eric William Atkins, columbia, maryland Blake Andrew Avery, cum laude, anchorage, alaska Thomas Patrick Bagiackas, south Bend, indiana Amanda Jill Bambury, colorado springs, colorado Michelle Elizabeth Baranay, south Bend, indiana Alexander Edison Bareis, dallas, texas Kathryn Sabyl Barousse, lafayette, louisiana Michael Alexander Barr, highland village, texas John Joseph Barry, Burlington, massachusetts Joshua P. Bathon, Greenville, south carolina Allison Maria Behrndt, saint louis, missouri Morgan Kay Benson, Plantation, florida Angela Marie Bermudez, miami, florida John Xavier Bernard, Grosse Pointe, michigan Chantal Nona Berry, Bristow, virginia *Daniel Joseph Bettencourt, raynham, massachusetts Joseph Paulino Binzer, spencer, iowa Courtney Yun Biscan, magna cum laude, manhattan, illinois Steven Michael Bischoff, hanover, Pennsylvania Nicholas William Blashill, downers Grove, illinois Anne Marie Blieszner, magna cum laude, denver, colorado 


Natalie Kathleen Boll, summa cum laude, Grosse Pointe Park,  
 michigan Olevia Danielle Mae Boykin, cum laude, sheboygan, Wisconsin Colleen Aurora Boyle, munster, indiana Michael Joseph Bradley, cum laude, south Bend, indiana Gable Marie Brady, Waxahachie, texas Sean Andrew Brady, cum laude, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Ariel Louise Braker, Grosse Pointe Woods, michigan Rachel Elizabeth Brandenberger, south Bend, indiana Christopher Thomas Brandt, dallas, texas Ryan Joseph Brandt, stevensville, michigan Catherine Abigail Braunlich, alexandria, virginia Meghan Elizabeth Brennan, louisville, Kentucky Tyler F. Brenneman, cum laude, east hampton, new york Marguerite Nash Brindock, rockwall, texas Jill Margaret Briody, cum laude, oakton, virginia Daniel Joseph Brombach, magna cum laude, saint Paul,  
 minnesota Nicole Marie Brooks, sicklerville, new Jersey Daniel Joseph Brown, ashburn, virginia Samantha Ann Brown, albuquerque, new mexico Molly Elizabeth Bruggeman, dayton, ohio Stephanie Marie Bruns, indianapolis, indiana Jarrod Raphael Buchanon, south Bend, indiana James Joseph Bulger, magna cum laude, minneapolis, minnesota Marissa Kathryn Bulso, summa cum laude, Brentwood,  
 tennessee Clare O'Rourke Burke, Barrington, illinois Aubrey Leigh Butts, summa cum laude, lima, ohio Taylor Catherine Byrnes, cum laude, mooresville,  
north carolina Ninabeth Jamora Cabahug, cum laude, las vegas, nevada David William Cable, tucson, arizona Samantha Anne Caesar, cum laude, south Bend, indiana Sarah Margaret Cahalan, logansport, indiana Megan Peters Cahill, cum laude, alexandria, virginia Aaron Thomas Calton, cum laude, cleveland, ohio Adriana Camacho Ibanez, Puebla, mexico Catherine Rose Caracci, des moines, iowa Grace Leigh Carini, chicago, illinois Brenna Corinne Carlson, ames, iowa John David Carlson, Western springs, illinois Lisa Marie Carlson, cum laude, novi, michigan Mark Richard Castera, leawood, Kansas Minjung Cha, seoul, republic of Korea Grace Michele Chiarella, magna cum laude, Greenwood,  
 virginia Edithstein Cho, magna cum laude, roseville, minnesota Ana Jacqueline Christian, magna cum laude, charlotte,  
north carolina Jessie Cooper Christian, Washington, district of columbia Catherine Jeanne Cichon, colorado springs, colorado Isabela Cigarroa, laredo, texas Brigid Louise Clary, skaneateles, new york Julie Christine Cleveland, cum laude, auburn, alabama Andrew Stephen Cloetingh, malvern, Pennsylvania Sara V. Cloon, leawood, Kansas Brian Vincent Closs, holmdel, new Jersey Caleb H. Cobbin, south Bend, indiana Alexander Felice Coccia, magna cum laude, columbus, ohio Quentin Thomas Collie, Washington, West virginia Daniel Lee Colston, Glenview, illinois Casey Anne Connolly, cum laude, Watervliet, new york Jordyn Elizabeth Conover, Warrington, Pennsylvania Christian Leo Coppa, summa cum laude, haworth, new Jersey Leah Corachea, manhattan Beach, california John Aloysius Corr, Jr., collegeville, Pennsylvania Melissa Marie Correia, Port-of-spain, trinidad and tobago Kelsie V. Corriston, summa cum laude, ho-ho-Kus, new Jersey Mia Lisa Marguerite Counts, rancho Palos verdes, california Brendan Matthew Coyne, downingtown, Pennsylvania Carleigh Brianne Coyne, los angeles, california Mark Thomas Coyne, naperville, illinois Tori Marie Creighton, largo, florida Patrick Joseph Cruitt, magna cum laude, okemos, michigan Natalia María Cuevas, monterrey, mexico Kelsey Marie Cullinan, spotsylvania, virginia Alex Elizabeth Cummings, Westland, michigan Peter Michael Mason Cummings, magna cum laude, Granger,  
 indiana Molly Kathryn Daily, summa cum laude, chatham, illinois Johnny Dang, Granger, indiana Vishal Bharat Dave, howell, new Jersey Brittany Nicole Davis, osceola, indiana Jessica Crystal Davis, Bellingham, Washington Kaitlyn Elizabeth Davis, cum laude, Greensburg, Pennsylvania *Scott Patrick Dawson, naperville, illinois Emily Marie-Matteson de Araujo, Bronson, michigan Grace Anne Deardurff, cum laude, elmhurst, illinois Kiersten Frances DeHaven, tampa, florida Lucas Sergio de la Fuente Munita, santiago, chile Luisa Michelle De Los Santos, santo domingo, 
dominican republic Allison Renae De Luna, san antonio, texas Claire Marie DeMars, cum laude, spartanburg, south carolina Lucas Matthew Derrick, Greenville, Pennsylvania Nicholas Anthony Desmone, magna cum laude, West seneca, 
new york Vivien J. Devaney, san luis obispo, california Elena Margaret DeVoe, Westport, connecticut Maria Isabel Diamond, Wheaton, illinois Bryan Alberto Dimas, houston, texas Ciara Marie Dineen, daly city, california Christina Mary Elisabeth Dines, east amherst, new york Ana Regina Dionne-Lanier, Boston, massachusetts Robert Edward Dolan III, alexandria, virginia Kathleen Meghan Dollard, summa cum laude, rancho santa fe,
 california Ryan James Dominguez, yorba linda, california Elizabeth Christin Donnenberg, houston, texas *Connor Joseph Doolan, Kansas city, missouri Conor McFadden Dorgan, Granger, indiana Robert Philip Dorman, magna cum laude, lake Kiowa, texas Danielle Alexis Dorrego, miami, florida Matthew Harold Doyle, natick, massachusetts Ricardo Ernesto Duarte Bodewig, magna cum laude, 
san salvador, el salvador Katherine MaryMargaret Dudas, Wyckoff, new Jersey Brian Phillip Duffy, cum laude, milwaukee, Wisconsin Margaret Christine Duffy, dallas, texas Kimberly Marie Dumais, farmington, connecticut Lindsay Virginia Dun, cum laude, lincolnshire, illinois Kathleen McDowell Duncan, south Bend, indiana Conor Patrick Durkin, cum laude, Glen ellyn, illinois 


Donald Henry Eckardt III, canton, michigan Kaitlyn Nicole Egan, magna cum laude, carlsbad, california Benjamin Thomas Eichler, cum laude, richmond, virginia Jenna Marie Eilinger, hillsdale, new Jersey Quinlan Rose Ellington-Meaney, santa Barbara, california Terry Kate Ely, saddle river, new Jersey Zuri Amata Eshun, atlanta, Georgia Hayley Nicole Evans, cum laude, nashville, tennessee Elizabeth Ann Everett, south Bend, indiana Samuel P. Evola, magna cum laude, toledo, ohio Maria Beverly Fahs, Buffalo, new york Michael Francis Falvey, Plymouth, michigan *Marissa LaRae Fandel, Peoria, illinois Kaitlyn Rose Farrell, magna cum laude, Garden city, new york John Bernard Favorite, cum laude, south Bend, indiana Louis L. Fazio, cum laude, albuquerque, new mexico Katherine Maria Ferrello, cum laude, sugarloaf, Pennsylvania Lauren Elizabeth Fessler, lexington, Kentucky Benjamin Joseph Finan, memphis, tennessee Sabina Ranette Fischer, magna cum laude, Wilmington, 
north carolina Brennan James Fitzgerald, andrews, indiana Maureen Kelly Flaherty, los angeles, california Megan Rose Flynn, columbus, ohio Grace Mary Foster, maple Glen, Pennsylvania Stephen Matthew Fox, summa cum laude, leawood, Kansas Mary Margaret Frailey, West hartford, connecticut Andrew Scott Fribush, coral Gables, florida Paul Anthony Frierott, south Bend, indiana *Steven Richard Froelich, manorville, new york Stanley Walter Fronczak, Jr., oak Brook, illinois Jenny Ann Fucillo, magna cum laude, Winthrop, massachusetts Katherine Nicole Fusco, omaha, nebraska Amber Grace Galik, cum laude, colorado springs, colorado Jennifer Anne Gallic, Gillette, new Jersey Samuel Robert Gans, dublin, ohio *Kylie Danae Gaona, ontario, california John Bao-Ren Garvin, mountain view, california Andrew Octavio Gastelum, riverside, california Jeffrey Raymond Gerlomes, Jr., cum laude, napa, california Ryan Joseph Gerspach, larchmont, new york John Michael Gibbons, cum laude, Western springs, illinois Danielle Malia Gies, cum laude, tucson, arizona Madeline Rose Gillen, naples, florida Genevieve Florence Gill-Wiehl, saint louis, missouri Regina Margaret Gilmour, magna cum laude, Beverly hills, 
 michigan Theodore Irving Glasnow, newhall, california Nora Grace Goebelbecker, chicago, illinois Gabrielle Lina Going, atlanta, Georgia Daniel Joseph Gomez, Belleville, illinois Ryan Neil Gonzales, newbury Park, california Katherine M. Gordon, magna cum laude, Bluffton, indiana Katy Jo Gorentz, arma, Kansas Teresa Anne Gorman, summa cum laude, hyattsville, maryland Thomas K. Graff, cum laude, el dorado hills, california Wiley Parker Green, Bozeman, montana Kelley Anne Gregg, summa cum laude, Kettering, ohio Gabriel Julian Griggs, cum laude, south Bend, indiana Patrick Michael Grimmer, cum laude, niles, michigan Shelby Alexandra Grubbs, Gibsonia, Pennsylvania Shijun Gu, cum laude, Beijing, People's republic of china 
Alfredo Antonio Guzman-Dominguez, summa cum laude, manhasset, new york 
Claire Elizabeth Hackman, desoto, texas 
Casey Joy Miller Hall, cum laude, okemos, michigan 
Leo McKeever Hall, cum laude, Grosse Pointe Park, michigan 
Carolyn Marie Haller, cum laude, erie, Pennsylvania 
Melissa Kristine Hallihan, shorewood, illinois 
Kimberly E. Halstead, Granger, indiana 
Robert Edward Hammer, south Bend, indiana 
Marielle Domenique Hampe, summa cum laude, coraopolis,  Pennsylvania 
Theodora Sorin Hannan, mishawaka, indiana 
Kelly Elizabeth Harmon, Grand rapids, michigan 
Phoenix Nicole Harris, Plainfield, illinois 
Michael Andrew Harvey, houston, texas 
Carolyn Marie Hassett, fort Worth, texas 
Wendy Anne Hatch, roseville, minnesota 
Grace Marie Hatfield, south Bend, indiana 
Erin E. Hattler, denver, colorado 
Matthew Anthony Hayes, rockville centre, new york 
William Jackson Hefferon, armonk, new york 
Samantha Lynne Heggum, fair oaks, california 
Katherine Teresa Heit, overland Park, Kansas 
Elizabeth Patrice Helpling, magna cum laude, cincinnati, ohio 
Carissa Sue Henke, magna cum laude, Bloomington, minnesota 
Raymond Anton Herrly II, saint cloud, france 
Marion Jane Herrmann, tampa, florida 
Robert Thomas Hess, naperville, illinois 
Mary Elizabeth Hession, carmel, indiana 
Michael Andrew Hever, dallas, texas 
Stephen Curtiss High, Granger, indiana 
Christopher Edwin Hill-Junke, Gibsonia, Pennsylvania 
Justin Gregory Hish, cum laude, Plainfield, illinois 
Jolynn Thuy Tien Hoang, victoria, texas 
Gerrit Bailey Hobson, columbus, ohio 
Kalie Ann Holdren, south Bend, indiana 
Meredith Ann Holland, cum laude, mountain lakes, new Jersey 
Mary Catherine Holt, cum laude, Johnson city, tennessee 
Natalia Nacheff Homchick, mercer island, Washington 
Philip Alexander Murray Hootsmans, cum laude, shanghai, People's republic of china 
Abigail Jane Marie Hoverman, magna cum laude, minnetonka,  minnesota 
Helen Kathleen Howard, cum laude, fountain hills, arizona 
Kelsey Rose Howard, cum laude, hawthorn Woods, illinois 
Connor Thomas Howell, faribault, minnesota 
Megan Rodriguez Hsu, cum laude, rochester, indiana 
Iona Marie Hughan, magna cum laude, san francisco, california 
Amanda Maria Humbert Cabarcos, Panama, Panama 
John Thomas Hunt III, summa cum laude, eads, tennessee 
Kerry Capen Hunt, eads, tennessee 
Theodore Thomas Huntington, river forest, illinois 
Won Ho Hwang, seoul, republic of Korea 
Marisa Suzanne Iati, cum laude, skillman, new Jersey 
Camila Maria Inarra, la Paz, Bolivia 
Bennett Troy Jackson, Jr., hazlet, new Jersey 
Scott Urban Jackson, north royalton, ohio 
Victoria Robbins Jacobsen, huntingtown, maryland 
Madeline P. Jarrett, magna cum laude, indianapolis, indiana 
Cathryn Helen Jenkins, overland Park, Kansas 
Erin Marie Jenkins, dublin, ohio 
Matthew Robert Jewell, Western springs, illinois 


Zoe Nadine Jimenez, san Pedro, california Caitlin Marie Johnson, littleton, colorado Mary Cecelia Johnson, Port Washington, new york Sara Noreen Jones, cum laude, muskegon, michigan Yana Ann Marie Jones, Granger, indiana Nancy Elizabeth Joyce, magna cum laude, akron, ohio Jaehyun Teresa Jung, magna cum laude, columbus, indiana Christine Marie Junga, magna cum laude, midland, michigan Purterson Justilien, miami, florida Zachary Michael Kacprowicz, fort Wayne, indiana Emily Anne Kaes, cincinnati, ohio Rachel Morgan Kalinoski, summa cum laude, toledo, ohio Il-Jee Kam, seoul, republic of Korea Jacob Gregory Kaminski, muskego, Wisconsin Brian John Kaneb, manchester, massachusetts Kelsey Ann Kelleher, southlake, texas Elizabeth Kathryn Kellogg, cum laude, saint louis, missouri Ann Marie Kelly, newtown square, Pennsylvania Conor Richard Kelly, Brunswick, maine Quinton Aloysius Kelly, hong Kong island, hong Kong Shane Padraic Kelly, south Bend, indiana David J. Kenney, dublin, ohio Timothy James Kenney, Granger, indiana *Kaitlyn Marie Kiely, Berwyn, Pennsylvania Alexander Miranda Killen, Wallingford, connecticut Erin R. Killmurray, Whitehouse station, new Jersey Dong Hwi Kim, yonginshi, People's republic of Korea Joonsung Joshua Kim, south Bend, indiana Yeji Kim, irvine, california Timothy Robert Kirchoff, cum laude, Berwyn, illinois Kelsi Brooke Klein, Pickerington, ohio Jennifer Marie Klejeski, cum laude, oak Grove, minnesota Miles Jonathan Klimara, menomonee falls, Wisconsin Amy Catherine Klopfenstein, colorado springs, colorado Michael Stefan Kochanski, Bartlett, illinois Daniel Bendisi Kokotajlo, magna cum laude, Washington, 
district of columbia Deanna Alexandra Kolberg, magna cum laude, south Bend,  
 indiana Nicole Catherine Konkey, south Bend, indiana Maria Kipp Kosse, summa cum laude, louisville, Kentucky Abigail Joan Rockne Kostielney, south Bend, indiana Kaitlin Elizabeth Kraemer, Granger, indiana Kevin Patrick Krause, Playa del rey, california Rachel Marie Krejchi, chippewa falls, Wisconsin Tyler Joseph Krenek, toms river, new Jersey Sian Elizabeth Kresse, cum laude, chicago, illinois Rachael Miriam Krishnan, madison, Wisconsin Brennan David Kruszewski, cum laude, erie, Pennsylvania Margo Patricia Kurtzke, vienna, virginia Jessica Rose Kusina, summa cum laude, toledo, ohio Angelique Christine Laboy-Coparropa, alexandria, virginia Caitlin Elaine Lackner, summa cum laude, newport,  
rhode island Angela Marie Lake, minooka, illinois Sean Langan, magna cum laude, sudbury, massachusetts Eli Patrick Langson, charlotte, north carolina Katherine Marie Lanser, Wauwatosa, Wisconsin Adam Stephen LaPlaca, Glastonbury, connecticut Marye Colleen Larme, alexandria, virginia Patrick Daniel Laskowski, carmel, indiana 
Ashley Victoria Gianna Lawrence, summa cum laude, 
albuquerque, new mexico Jonathan Daean Lee, Greenwood lake, new york Kathlyn Y. Lee, south Bend, indiana Rachel Lee, skillman, new Jersey Chelsea Marie Lehman, magna cum laude, dallas, texas Anrong Anna Lei, vista, california Benjamin Allan Leichty, fort Wayne, indiana Charles Craig Leitch, middleton, Wisconsin Zachary Benson Leonard, foster city, california Mark Edward Leong, south Bend, indiana Alexander Humphrey Leslie, cum laude, onalaska, Wisconsin Shannon Colleen Lewry, Birmingham, michigan Marcus Ward Liddell, eau claire, Wisconsin Maria Carolina Lillis, austin, texas Cindy Lin, lawrenceburg, tennessee Edward Francis Mathers Linczer, south Bend, indiana Kevin Thomas Lind, homer Glen, illinois *Laura Elizabeth Livingston, Baton rouge, louisiana Adam Berchman Llorens, Grosse Pointe, michigan Stephanie Ann Lobaccaro, albertson, new york Emily Elizabeth Lohr, niles, michigan Robert Francis Longtin, hinsdale, illinois Louann Marie Lopez, lexington, Kentucky MaryClare Loughery, arlington heights, illinois Sarah Seiler Lovejoy, tacoma, Washington Michelle Lynn Luna, cum laude, Pico rivera, california Alec Michael MacDonell, summa cum laude, indianapolis, 
 indiana John Patrick Macke, summa cum laude, indianapolis, indiana Peter Josef Mackowiak, saint louis, missouri Colleen Marie Madden, saint louis, missouri Alyssa Sonia Mall, summa cum laude, chillicothe, illinois Thomas Alexander Mann, Jr., crestwood, Kentucky Kelsey Marie Manning, madison, new Jersey JoHanna Francine Manningham, mishawaka, indiana Natalie Caroline Mannion, south Bend, indiana Andrew James Marino, Westfield, new Jersey Kathryn Buck Marshall, cum laude, salisbury, maryland Michael Scott Masi, fort collins, colorado Lauren Rose Matich, newport Beach, california Katherine Elizabeth Mattie, ypsilanti, michigan Anne Margaret McCarthy, cum laude, malibu, california Anne Marie McCarthy, summa cum laude, castle rock, 
 colorado Sarah Elizabeth McCarthy, Breezy Point, new york Colleen Quinn McCartney, east norwich, new york James Joseph McClay IV, cary, north carolina Brigid Eileen McCloskey, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Gilbert Connor McCurrie, irvine, california Christen Marie McDonough, charlotte, north carolina Joseph Thomas McGillicuddy, summa cum laude, stow,  
 massachusetts Sarah Faith McGough, magna cum laude, Westlake village, 
 california Lauren Elena McGrath, Warrington, Pennsylvania Thomas Joseph McGuire, summa cum laude, fort Bragg,  
north carolina Sara Elizabeth McGuirk, cum laude, howell, new Jersey Andrea Lynn McHugh, yorba linda, california Stephanie Ann McKay, south Bend, indiana Robert Joseph McKenna, richmond, virginia 


John Douglas McKissick, easton, connecticut Eileen Margaret McLaughlin, Western springs, illinois Erin Elizabeth McMannon, chicago, illinois Madison Day McMenemy, sugar land, texas Lindsay Quinn McSweeney, melrose, massachusetts Whitney Elizabeth McWherter, cum laude, Pensacola, florida *Cheyney Sanders McWilliams, Granger, indiana Melissa Guadalupe Cabello Medina, long Beach, california Sophia Talbot Melone, magna cum laude, san anselmo,  
 california Alesandra Maria Mendoza, Whittier, california Paul Lorenz Menke, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Caroline Anne Merriam, charlotte, north carolina Nicole Marie Michels, Glenview, illinois Paul Edward Mickan, new orleans, louisiana William Earl Miller, summa cum laude, Winter Park, florida Daniel Bourke Milling, elmhurst, illinois Mark Daniel Mirabella, Webster, new york Leo Alexander Mironovich, Parma, ohio Elena Nicole Misailedes, cum laude, Grand rapids, michigan *Luke Anthony Mishu, Knoxville, tennessee *Damek Phillip Mitchell, louisville, Kentucky Jennifer Claire Mohrig, milton, Georgia Patrick Müller Monaghan, cum laude, chatham, new Jersey Joseph Augustine Monardo, magna cum laude, south Bend,  
 indiana Christina Frances Mondi, cum laude, cincinnati, ohio Andrew Moore, los altos, california Ryan Patrick Moss, magna cum laude, Wauwatosa, Wisconsin *John Malcolm Mossman, la Grange Park, illinois Michelle Cristina Mowry, magna cum laude, reno, nevada Lance Shamus Mulcahey, cum laude, Goshen, indiana Michael Patrick Heyes Mullen, san ramon, california Kathleen Bernice Mullins, magna cum laude, hudson, ohio Mairead Jilliann Mumford, mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania Princely Thomas Mboya Muro, Jr., Gaithersburg, maryland Brooke Allison Murphy, cum laude, highlands ranch, colorado David John Murphy, alpharetta, Georgia Ashley Ann Murray, north chicago, illinois Mary Murgia Musilek, magna cum laude, Plymouth, minnesota Christian Matthew Myers, magna cum laude, chanhassen,  
 minnesota Sara Annette Mykrantz, magna cum laude, columbus, ohio Eliza Marie Nagle, magna cum laude, nashville, tennessee Alexandra Christine Nagy, Zionsville, indiana Emily Katherine Nash, saint louis, missouri Laura Marie Nash, saint louis, missouri William Watson Neal, covington, louisiana Mary Kate Nelson, Glen ellyn, illinois Eric Michael Nesi, Westport, connecticut Michael Joseph Neuberger, edina, minnesota Richard Davenport Neville, vienna, virginia Vincent Hien Nguyen, Warner robins, Georgia Romel Padraig Nicholas, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Shelby Lynn Niemann, cum laude, hillsboro, illinois Matthew John Henry Niendorf, frankfort, illinois Louis Anthony Nix III, Jacksonville, florida Jenna Rose Nizamoff, naples, florida Monica Noguera, Bogota, colombia Katie Colleen Nolan, magna cum laude, downers Grove, illinois Samantha Ellyn Nordlund, magna cum laude, Westlake village,
 california 
Christina Marie Novelli, howell, new Jersey Gabriela Maria Nuñez, cum laude, milwaukee, Wisconsin Taylor James Nutter, cum laude, escondido, california Emily Marie Obermiller, cum laude, Kalispell, montana *Carmel Patricia O'Brien, Glencoe, illinois Catherine Michel O'Donnell, arlington heights, illinois Caitlin Elizabeth Ogren, magna cum laude, stillwater,  
 minnesota Precious Esosa Okonokhua, atlanta, Georgia Anthony John Oleck, Grand rapids, michigan Alex Santiago Oloriz, laguna niguel, california Andrea Lea Olsen, oakland, california Megan Clare Olson, summa cum laude, Pewaukee, Wisconsin Fiora Grace O'Meara, indianapolis, indiana Crystal Chinelo Onyeador, arlington, texas Gabriel Lavabre Orlet, magna cum laude, Belleville, illinois Justin Mulligan Orr, magna cum laude, chicago, illinois *Joseph L. P. Paggi, Wappingers falls, new york Jacob Thomas Palcic, cum laude, cincinnati, ohio Chelsea Marie Palmer, magna cum laude, santa monica, 
 california Andrew Healy Pangraze, richmond, virginia Luke William Pardue, magna cum laude, chesterbrook,  
Pennsylvania Grace Hannah Parsons, rockford, illinois Rebecca Emily-Louise Passarelli, indianapolis, indiana Anthony Michael Patti, ann arbor, michigan Grace Alice Paz, marina del rey, california Andrew Peabody, summa cum laude, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Jessica Laura Peek, magna cum laude, Plainfield, illinois Ronald Edmund Peltier, angleton, texas John Alexander Pepelnjak, cum laude, lake forest, illinois Natalie Margaret Perez, Providence, rhode island James Campbell Pershing, cum laude, hingham, massachusetts Elizabeth Ann Peterson, southlake, texas Will Frawley Peterson, la Jolla, california Alysia Catherine Phillips, summa cum laude, Gaylord, michigan Margaret Gabriella Pickard, south Bend, indiana Elizabeth Anne Pickle, cum laude, allison Park, Pennsylvania Amanda Elizabeth Pierce, Wilbraham, massachusetts Michael Richard Pilger, vienna, virginia William Frank Busch Pinkham, needham, massachusetts Gabrielle Marie Pope-Davis, south Bend, indiana Catherine Claire Porto, cum laude, West des moines, iowa James Fitzsimmons Powers III, charlotte, north carolina Margeaux Elizabeth Prinster, Grand Junction, colorado Mary Therese Prokop, summa cum laude, strongsville, ohio Teresa Nicole Puente, redondo Beach, california Katherine Anne Puszka, cum laude, Buffalo Grove, illinois Alison Elise Quinn, coto de caza, california Nora M. Quinn, mokena, illinois Andrea Maria Rabassa, cum laude, Key Biscayne, florida Lisa Marie Rague, hilliard, ohio Joseph Michael Ragukonis, Goshen, indiana Caroline Elizabeth Ramsey, magna cum laude, villanova, 
Pennsylvania Ariana Rangel, clermont, florida Brigid Flynn Reardon, litchfield, connecticut Timothy James Record II, fort Worth, texas Benjamin Michael Redgrave, fairfax, virginia Stephen Anthony Rehagen, cum laude, Jefferson city, missouri 


Kelsey Marie Repine, englewood, colorado Caroline Marie Reuter, cum laude, metairie, louisiana Robert Daniel Rey, Park ridge, illinois Annie Cecilia Marie Rhodes, summa cum laude, davidson, 
north carolina Isaiah Jude Rhodes, magna cum laude, Kapsowar, Kenya Matthew Francis Rhodes, saint louis, missouri AnnaLee Elizabeth Rice, mahwah, new Jersey Joseph Gregory Rice, river edge, new Jersey Lauren Elizabeth Richards, farmington hills, michigan Tyler Christian Richards, magna cum laude, davidsonville, 
 maryland Patrick Mitchell Ridenour, south Bend, indiana Robert Francis Rienzo, macungie, Pennsylvania Mary Clare Rigali, santa maria, california William James Rigali, frederick, colorado Zean Antoni Rivera, seattle, Washington Renée Darline Roden, eden Prairie, minnesota John Michael Rodgers, Palm city, florida Victoria Marie Roeck, summa cum laude, Westfield, new Jersey Gina Marie Rogari, cum laude, malibu, california Lindsay Ann Rojas, Garden city, new york Thomas Joseph Roman II, magna cum laude, Watertown, 
new york *Dominic Joseph Romeo, turlock, california *Alex Javier Romeu, Parkland, florida Hope Amiri Rosenfeld, stamford, connecticut Rebecca Anne Rossi, Grand rapids, michigan Teresa Maureen Rubinger, cum laude, arlington, virginia Caroline Andrea Ruhland, magna cum laude, anaheim hills, 
 california Jacqueline Ruiz, el centro, california Justin Robert Rumps II, olathe, Kansas Kathleen Marie Ryan, columbus, ohio Kelly Lynn Ryan, hinsdale, illinois Tate Elizabeth Ryan-Mosley, minnetonka, minnesota Chloe Anna Saganowich, treasure island, florida Brandon Nicholas Saia, Palmetto, florida Patrick Samuel Salemme, cum laude, Jamestown, new york John Michael Sandberg, littleton, colorado Britney Love Sanders, south Bend, indiana Lindsey Jean Sansone, saint louis, missouri Aaron Michael Sant-Miller, magna cum laude, rochester,  
new york James Andrew Schappler, Bedford, new hampshire Nicholas John Schilling, Jr., overland Park, Kansas Emily Mae Schmid, Granger, indiana #Arnold James Schmidt, Billings, montana Katherine Marie Schmitt, south Bend, indiana Patrick Joseph Schmitz, lloyd harbor, new york Olivia Rae Schneider, magna cum laude, elmhurst, illinois Kelly Lynn Scholl, south Bend, indiana Jonathan Nicholas Schommer, Plainfield, indiana Melissa Angela Schopper, magna cum laude, Brownsburg,  
 indiana Samantha K. Schubert, lombard, illinois McKinzie Katlin Schulz, naperville, illinois Caroline Mailliard Schurz, south Bend, indiana Kona McKay Schwenke, hauula, hawaii Brian Patrick Scully, Gainesville, Georgia Justin Lee Sena, cum laude, albuquerque, new mexico Dong Kyu Seol, suwon, republic of Korea 
John Abraham Shadid, Peoria, illinois Molly Ann Shank, high Point, north carolina Mary Catherine Shawhan, fulton, maryland Michael Ryan Shepardson, Winter Park, florida Garrick William Sherman, Kenton, ohio Colin Terence Sidberry, miami, florida Kevin James Siefert, south Bend, indiana William Martin Sievern, evansville, indiana Louis Berkeley Sievers, dubuque, iowa Vanessa Guadalupe Silva, chicago, illinois Debra Marie Smetana, cum laude, Wheaton, illinois Christopher Sawyer Smith, maplewood, new Jersey Clayton Patrick Smith, cum laude, denver, colorado David Warren Smith, Wantage, new Jersey Margaret Ann Smith, Westminster, maryland Nicole Elizabeth Smith, charlevoix, michigan Elizabeth O'Brien Snyder, etna, new hampshire Mary Katheryn Snyder, Pensacola, florida Alexandra Bessie-Rose Soisson, south Bend, indiana Dylan Paul Sonnier, houston, texas William Ryan Sovic, arlington, texas Claire Elizabeth Spears, cum laude, tulsa, oklahoma Hunter Jamieson Speese, chicago, illinois Douglas William Spelder, summa cum laude, Phoenix, arizona Katherine Marie Spencer, cum laude, Brookline, massachusetts Ian Watson Sperry, Granger, indiana Kimberly Anne Springstead, Kendallville, indiana Kathryn Elizabeth Squiers, summa cum laude, dallas, texas Stephen John Stachowski, elma, new york Mera Rose Stackhouse, seattle, Washington Lawrence Edward Stansberry IV, Gretna, louisiana Nathaniel Thomas Steele, clayton, north carolina Julia Suzanne Steiner, magna cum laude, louisville, Kentucky Charles Patrick Stephen, saint Joseph, michigan Benjamin James Stoddard, south Bend, indiana Michael Leinen Strock, south Bend, indiana Kathryn Elizabeth Stirling Suarez, chevy chase, maryland Patrick Colin Sullivan, hillsdale, michigan Shannon Dunn Sullivan, houston, texas Susan Maureen Sullivan, summa cum laude, rocky river, ohio Timothy Michael Sullivan, Branchburg, new Jersey Elizabeth Carmel Surat, roanoke, virginia Troy Matthew Suter, cum laude, south Bend, indiana Madeline Frances Swan, arlington heights, illinois Maria Louisa Swift, mettawa, illinois Michael Zachary Szopiak, magna cum laude, Bend, oregon Shayne Samuel Taker, surrey, canada Nikitha Taniparti, cum laude, hyderabad, india Lisa Marie Taylor, summa cum laude, Byron center, michigan Alexandra Marie Thiel, normandy Park, Washington Alexandra Catherine Thomas, newport Beach, california Meghan Rose Thomassen, cum laude, rowley, massachusetts Caroline Marie Thompson, cum laude, leawood, Kansas Michael Lee Allen Thompson, tuskegee, alabama Luke Stephen Tilmans, indianapolis, indiana Ryan Moir Tixier, altadena, california Nicole Christine Toczauer, oak Park, california Victoria Lynne Tokarski, cum laude, Westland, michigan Connor Patrick Toohill, san diego, california Monica Katharine Torres, cum laude, Winter springs, florida Patrick Callanan Touhy, Palos heights, illinois Jennifer Marie Traver, darien, connecticut Kellie Marie Travis, cum laude, mission viejo, california Kevin Anthony Tribe, chicago, illinois Carolyn Elizabeth Turek, summa cum laude, lyons, illinois Hannah Kathleen Turgeon, magna cum laude, los angeles,  


 california Tayler Elizabeth Turner, south Bend, indiana Rebecca Lee Twining, houston, texas Matthew David Uber, naperville, illinois Brett Robert Ubl, summa cum laude, new ulm, minnesota Jeffrey Michael Ulrich, lebanon, new Jersey Denise Umubyeyi, Glen ellyn, illinois Aijah Breenai Urssery, apple valley, california Mauricio Antonio Valdovinos, irving, texas Anna Elizabeth VanEgmond, Grosse Pointe shores, michigan Michael Thomas Vangel II, saint louis, missouri Sarah Anne Veith, charlotte, north carolina Mary Kate Veselik, cum laude, clarendon hills, illinois Karyn Terese Vilbig, summa cum laude, saint louis, missouri Grisel Villa, Quail valley, california Nicole Marie Villa, cum laude, coto de caza, california Marianinna Villavicencio, Guatemala, Guatemala Marissa Catherine Vos, West hills, california Macklin James Wagner, Granville, ohio Tylor Matthew Waits-Mondragon, la Jara, colorado Erika Rachelle Wallace, Western springs, illinois Mara Claire Walsh, cum laude, Kennett square, Pennsylvania Margaret Sullivan Walsh, arlington heights, illinois Daniel H. Weigel, south Bend, indiana Dillon Miles Weisner, redlands, california *Andrew Vincent Welters, mc lean, virginia Grace Elizabeth Wessel, Berkeley heights, new Jersey Brandon William West, Bakersfield, california Quinn Patrick Whalen, Kansas city, missouri Joshua Monroe Whelan, savannah, Georgia Connor Michael White, Woodinville, Washington Thomas Joseph White IV, cum laude, Garden city, new york Eric Andrew Whittington, Bakersfield, california Margaret Ann Wieland, Bloomington, illinois Elizabeth Kinsella Willis, lake forest, illinois Carolina Elena Wilson, miami, florida Gerald Orton Wilson III, Kalamazoo, michigan Max Biron Wipson, duluth, minnesota Cole Andrew Wogoman, middlebury, indiana Bryce Michael Wood, Phoenix, arizona Regina Marie Wood, summa cum laude, deerfield, illinois Elizabeth Anne Yahiro, south Bend, indiana Kun Hee Yi, olympia, Washington Ramon Eduardo Yip Yip, tegucigalpa, honduras Bethany Ellen Young, loudonville, ohio Jasmine Lee Young, Goodyear, arizona John Patrick Yusko, chapel hill, north carolina Elizabeth Maria Zarantonello, Bardstown, Kentucky Julianne Zemaitis, cum laude, West Palm Beach, florida Ilse Patricia Zenteno, cum laude, saint louis, missouri Stephen Joseph Zerfas, summa cum laude, Bloomington, 
indiana 
*Participating with his/her class #Graduating with senior Thesis 



the deGree OF BaChelOr OF sCieNCe ON: 
Degree awarded August 7, 2013 
Erin Kathleen Fitzgerald, Baltimore, maryland John Benjamin Gately, little rock, arkansas Charles Jeffrey Lee, omaha, nebraska Jennifer Marie Lesko, columbia, illinois Janet Elizabeth Mostrom, fayetteville, new york Nora Catherine Nickels, clarendon hills, illinois 
Degree awarded January 5, 2014 Hee Won Baek, cum laude, seoul, republic of  Korea Minsung Bock, seoul, republic of Korea John Henry Brems, summa cum laude, Kensington, maryland Joshua Matthew Corcoran, sun Prairie, Wisconsin Joseph John Cuff, magna cum laude, eldersburg, maryland Daniel Richard Ekeroth, mahtomedi, minnesota Scott Joseph Grimes, santa Barbara, california Andrew Steven Hendrix, Blue ash, ohio Brian Patrick Morell, san antonio, texas Kiah Michelle Schaefbauer, sioux falls, south dakota Daniel Joseph Smith, Blasdell, new york Susan Monica Tith, round lake, illinois 
Candidates for degree May 18, 2014 
*Emily Rose Adams, Baton rouge, louisiana Nestor A. Agbayani, Jr., honolulu, hawaii Ali Karim Ahmed, cum laude, manalapan, new Jersey Patrick David Albright, urbandale, iowa Mark Jonathan Ambrose, Bayside, Wisconsin Patricia Denise Amorado, magna cum laude, mount vernon, 
 illinois Nicholas Lee Anderson, magna cum laude, merrill, Wisconsin Michael Anthony Appel, north olmsted, ohio Alexa Teresa Aragon, Billings, montana Ignacio Aranguren, Guadalajara, Jalisco, mexico Margaret Mc Intosh Armstrong, o'fallon, illinois Meaghan Christine Ayers, Glen rock, new Jersey Denise Marie Azores-Gococo, Greenville, south carolina Emily Jo Baker, West des moines, iowa William Leslie Baker, clifton, virginia Ashley Christine Barraza, dallas, texas William Gregory Barth, summa cum laude, saint Paul,  
 minnesota Ryan Andrew Bartosh, ford city, Pennsylvania Brett Joseph Beattie, rockville, maryland Rachel Christine Beck, tucson, arizona Andrew John Becker, oshkosh, Wisconsin Patrick James Bedard, cum laude, lakeville, new york Alexandra Elizabeth Below, Westlake, ohio Stephanie Marie Berg, Bloomfield hills, michigan Jane Suzanne Beriont, colts neck, new Jersey Charles Joseph Berno, south Bend, indiana Vincent Richard Birch, albany, new york Taylor Marie Boland, magna cum laude, stoddard, Wisconsin Brandon Forrest Boldt, cum laude, carroll, iowa John Daniel Brahier, magna cum laude, Perrysburg, ohio Christopher Allen Brenzel, lexington, Kentucky Christopher J. Broughton, Bay city, michigan Alexandra Judith Brown, hopkinton, massachusetts Erin Elizabeth Brown, dayton, ohio Catherine Marie Buckley, manhattan, Kansas Vincent Christian Burns, summa cum laude, akron, ohio *Jumoke Jane Cadmus, charlotte, north carolina Craig Russell Cahillane, magna cum laude, rockford, illinois Christopher John Cali, south Bend, indiana Katelyn Margaret Campbell, homewood, illinois Andrea Lauren Carlson, minooka, illinois Anna Elizabeth Carmack, veazie, maine Kelly Elizabeth Carr, north hampton, new hampshire Ruben Roland Carrion II, schertz, texas Gina Terese Casini, Burr ridge, illinois John James Cassano, Garden city, new york Thomas Jefferson Catalano, louisville, Kentucky Jennifer Jane Cates, rye, new york Lucas Martin Cespedes, magna cum laude, south Bend,  
 indiana Madeline Grace Chandler, magna cum laude, nixa, missouri Erik Oskar Charette, forked river, new Jersey Michelle Leighton Chatman, lisle, illinois Marie Feng Chen, arlington, texas Mary Patricia Chivetta, saint louis, missouri Joshua Sang Woo Choi, folsom, california Seung-Eun Chong, seoul, republic of Korea William Douglas Chronister, la Grange, illinois Ju-Hyeong Chung, republic of Korea Albert K. Ciolek, mount Prospect, illinois Niall Hayward Cochrane, north Potomac, maryland #Matthew Christopher Cole, magna cum laude, saint louis,  
 missouri Matthew Nolan Collins, alpharetta, Georgia *Sienna Rose Combs, shrewsbury, massachusetts Kaitlynn Ann Conley, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania John Patrick Connors, Wellesley, massachusetts #Maria Angela Corsaro, malvern, Pennsylvania Briana Nadine Cortez, trabuco canyon, california Rachel Nicole Cotton, san diego, california Rachael Ann Creager, central, south carolina Ian Wright Cronin, norfolk, massachusetts Allison Renee Cross, royal oak, michigan Anne Marie Crowell, medfield, massachusetts Tara Kathleen Crown, albuquerque, new mexico Kelly Maureen Curran, cum laude, Bloomington, illinois Michael Sonny Dai, shreveport, louisiana Sarah E. Dalton, charlotte, north carolina Ruth Maria D'Cunha, lubbock, texas *Samuel Peter Deery-Schmitt, Bainbridge island, Washington Clare Elizabeth DeLaurentis, magna cum laude, Kensington,  
 maryland Kaitlin Ryan Demchuk, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Matthew Robert DiFazio, cum laude, Greenlawn, new york Paul John DiGiovanni, Grosse Pointe Park, michigan Seamus Coyne Donegan, cum laude, avon, new york Matthew M. Dooley, helotes, texas Jonathan Robert Dowd, cum laude, saint louis, missouri 


Sara Marie Dryden, cum laude, lakewood, colorado Henry Richard Duden IV, annapolis, maryland Colleen Marie Duffy, cum laude, youngsville, north carolina Michael Joseph Duggan, hatfield, Pennsylvania Joseph Christopher Easton, magna cum laude, Wadsworth, 
 ohio 
Lauren Elizabeth Eckert, sioux city, iowa 
Morgan Marie Ellis, Grosse Pointe shores, michigan 
Stephen Robert Elser, apache Junction, arizona 
Anthony Joseph Erdman, deltona, florida 
*Isaac Thomas Evans, fort Wayne, indiana 
Patrick Jordan Fagan, summa cum laude, chardon, ohio 
Danielle Elyse Fasani, oak Park, california 
Mason Wallace Faulk, rockford, illinois 
#Mitchell Mahoney Faulk, summa cum laude, rockford, illinois 
Celine-Alexandra Cabanban Fausto, rancho Palos verdes,  california 
Patrick James Feeney, indianapolis, indiana 
Andrea Leigh Finger, troy, michigan 
Kelsey Viola Fink, Granger, indiana 
Michael Joseph Fischer, Germantown, Wisconsin 
Anthony John Fleck, camarillo, california 
David Paul Fleming, summa cum laude, saint louis, missouri 
Sarah Josephine Fleming, chicago, illinois 
Melissa Gail Flynn, saint louis, missouri 
*Jacob Leonard Forney, saint Petersburg, florida 
Michael Jack Franczak, magna cum laude, new Berlin,  Wisconsin 
Timothy Joseph Fulnecky, mishawaka, indiana 
McKenna Lee Furgurson, cum laude, malibu, california 
Erin Morgan Garfield, uniontown, ohio 
Andrew John Gasparrini, ridgefield, connecticut 
Mary Kathleen Gaugler, cum laude, strongsville, ohio 
Matthew Paul Gervais, cum laude, endicott, new york 
Dasha Shawntale Giger, south Bend, indiana 
Michael David Giglio, cum laude, houston, texas 
Rachael Catherine Leatavalavala Glenister, temple, texas 
Christopher James Glueck, metairie, louisiana 
Shivani Goel, snellville, Georgia 
Amanda Brei Goodluck, las cruces, new mexico 
Cameron Matthew Goodman, carmichael, california 
Sarah Ann Graveline, lake Balboa, california 
Bernard Francis Gray III, cum laude, doylestown, Pennsylvania 
Yuko Mary Gruber, myrtle Beach, south carolina 
Olivia Marie Gutgsell, magna cum laude, Jasper, indiana 
Darin Christopher Habermel, sellersburg, indiana 
Colleen Margaret Haller, erie, Pennsylvania 
Andrew Nicholas Hamilton, tampa, florida 
Stephen Joseph Hannon, longview, Washington 
Erin Virginia Hanratty, Bel air, maryland 
Dillon J. Hanson, lindsay, texas 
Matthew Taylor Harbrecht, summa cum laude, columbus, ohio 
David Michael Harrington, surrey, united Kingdom 
Adam James Harshbarger, stevensville, michigan 
Travis Perkins Hart, cum laude, West sacramento, california 
Allison Magdalena Hartnett, south Bend, indiana 
Anna Siobhan Heffron, cum laude, omaha, nebraska 
Brendan Thomas Heiden, summa cum laude, Grand rapids,   michigan 
Caroline Margaret Heilmann, Williamsport, Pennsylvania 
Eliza Jane Herrero, scarsdale, new york 
Hayley Powers Hilton, magna cum laude, alexandria, louisiana 
Joel Robert Hlavaty, Jr., Wadsworth, ohio Quynh Trang Hoang, houston, texas James Robert Hodgens, new city, new york Samantha Jane Hoffman, fort Wayne, indiana Emily Ann Holtz, rosemount, minnesota Gwendolyn Cecilia Hooley, cum laude, naples, florida Hoang N. Ho-Pham, cum laude, Gretna, louisiana Cameron Mackenzie Houk, columbus, ohio Mary Clare Kathleen Houlihan, clarkston, michigan David Alexander Howe, roswell, Georgia Meghan Elizabeth Hudak, cum laude, Greenville,  
south carolina 
#Daniel Reid Irvine, summa cum laude, mobile, alabama 
Liam Thomas Jackson, dayton, ohio 
Alexandra E. Janiw, colts neck, new Jersey 
Kendall Johnson, englewood, colorado 
Samuel Hayden Jones, cum laude, iowa city, iowa 
Adam Thomas Joslyn, Plymouth, Wisconsin 
Patrick Nicholas Jung, cum laude, sioux city, iowa 
Joshua Malloy Junge, cum laude, leonardtown, maryland 
Olivia Ellen Kacsits, rockford, michigan 
Nicholas Ivars Kalejs, cum laude, spring lake, michigan 
Jeanae Mie Kaneshiro, honolulu, hawaii 
Ryan Thomas Kavilaveettil, Gurnee, illinois 
Victoria Catherine Kay, Pomona, california 
Carolyn Ann Keefe, cum laude, Bear, delaware 
Sean Dillon Keeley, rockville, maryland 
Kaitlyn Mae Keelin, Birmingham, alabama 
Mary Megan Kelly, cum laude, hopkinton, massachusetts 
Emalee Noel Kernisan, rudolph, ohio 
Ryan Luke Ketterer, cum laude, manaus, Brazil 
Kevin Andrew Kho, rancho cucamonga, california 
Matthew Roger Kiley, frankfort, illinois 
Francine Marie Kim, diamond Bar, california 
Michelle Soyeon Kim, Woodbine, maryland 
Raymond Youngkeon Kim, ellicott city, maryland 
Kyle Joseph Kimler, charleston, West virginia 
Michael Andrew Kipp, Wheaton, illinois 
Zacory Thomas Kobylarz, hollis, new hampshire 
Julie Seunghee Koh, seoul, republic of Korea 
Rochelle Roxanne Kong-Quee, lilburn, Georgia 
Michael Brian Kraft, cum laude, Bloomington, illinois 
Amanda Jeanne Krauss, manassas, virginia 
Allison Jane Kress, mequon, Wisconsin 
Catherine Anne Micallef Kromkowski, charlottesville, virginia 
Meghan Elizabeth Krueger, hopkinton, massachusetts 
Mary Genevieve Kunesh, dayton, ohio 
August Grant Kunkel, Brookville, indiana 
Rachel Alexandra Kurcz, milford, michigan 
Anne Maura Kurtz, mandeville, louisiana 
John Young Ho Kwon, magna cum laude, colorado springs,  colorado 
Juwon Kwon, cum laude, Busan, republic of Korea 
Douglas Alan Kyrouac, magna cum laude, carmel, indiana 
Joseph Collins Labetti, Germantown, tennessee 
David Thomas Lee, summa cum laude, nashville, tennessee 
Anthony James Lefeld, cum laude, saint henry, ohio 
Katherine Elizabeth Lenkiewicz, syracuse, new york 
Elizabeth Claire Leonard, summa cum laude, Westlake, ohio 
Patrick Thomas Lesiewicz, cum laude, schaumburg, illinois 
Thomas Gregory Lienhoop, magna cum laude, la Porte, indiana 
Robert Edward Luceri, neshanic station, new Jersey 


Nicholas Gregory Lupica, la cañada flintridge, california Michael Ryan MacGillivray, summa cum laude, Phoenix,  
 arizona Nicholas Cole Macor, Guilford, connecticut Nicole Anne Madrilejo, Bakersfield, california Andrew Guy Mancini, magna cum laude, erie, Pennsylvania Elizabeth Mae Manfred, vienna, virginia Lily Marie Marino, Bernardsville, new Jersey Patrick Joseph Marino, cum laude, Birmingham, alabama Jennifer Marie Markowski, Germantown, Wisconsin Molly Rose Marous, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Maureen Elizabeth Martin, council Bluffs, iowa Kathryn Marie Martinez, springfield, virginia Nicholas Alexander Martinez, albuquerque, new mexico Rebecca Marie Marton, summa cum laude, andover,  
 massachusetts Matthew Noel Marturano, Palatine, illinois Jennifer Marie Martynowicz, naperville, illinois John Cyrus Mason, saint charles, illinois Kevin Andrew Matuszewski, la Grange Park, illinois Andrew Robert McAsey, magna cum laude, menomonee falls, 
Wisconsin Kyle Matthew McCall, cum laude, Palatine, illinois Sean William McGee, rossmoor, california James Alexander McIntyre, santa clarita, california John Sterling McLaren V, magna cum laude, centennial,  
 colorado Teresa Ann McMackin, ocean springs, mississippi Alexandra DePierre McMullen, Kalamazoo, michigan Julia Ann McSorley, Barrington, illinois Richard Anthony Meena, magna cum laude, louisville,  
Kentucky Grace Kay Meikle, Boise, idaho Elizabeth Ann Meisinger, omaha, nebraska *Chelsea Lee Merriman, Boise, idaho Katherine Elizabeth Merritt, sioux city, iowa Michael Robert Messitt, West Point, new york Mark Philip Metzinger, summa cum laude, Katy, texas Frank Matthew Mezzacappa, omaha, nebraska Matthew Francis Mikulski, little silver, new Jersey Elliot Diana Miller, noblesville, indiana Ethan Tripp Montemayor, folsom, california Young Min Moon, magna cum laude, Gwangju, 
republic of Korea Patrick Devins Mooney, atlanta, Georgia Katherine Luden Morrow, Princeton, new Jersey Konrad Alan Moss, littleton, colorado Thomas Richard Mulvey, cum laude, Woodbury, minnesota Ryan Marcus Murphy, commack, new york Michael Timothy Murray, levittown, Pennsylvania Ansel Peter Nalin, summa cum laude, carmel, indiana Hali Quynh Nguyen, magna cum laude, mansfield, texas Kevin John Nguyen, carol stream, illinois Meghan Elizabeth Nicholas, Thibodaux, louisiana Ryan Walton Nichols, stillwater, minnesota John Ning, maple heights, ohio Walter William Nogay II, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Elizabeth Kristina Nuter, south Bend, indiana Thomas Neil O'Callaghan, cum laude, homer Glen, illinois Patricia Marie O'Connell, magna cum laude, hellertown,  
Pennsylvania Jayme Lin Miyoko Ogino, Kapolei, hawaii 
Chukwuemeka Kingsley Okoro, san mateo, california Daniel Joseph O'Shaughnessy, magna cum laude, cincinnati,  
 ohio 
Elizabeth Marie Owers, cum laude, metairie, louisiana 
Michael Paul Ozga, arlington heights, illinois 
Michelle Paek, magna cum laude, Brea, california 
Nicholas Robert Pagani, magna cum laude, Bolton, connecticut 
Molly Ann Partusch, cincinnati, ohio 
Hannah Virginia Pawelczyk, magna cum laude, frankfort,  illinois 
Meryl Elizabeth Pax, holland, michigan 
Andjela Pehar, cum laude, somers Point, new Jersey 
Roland Keith Perkins, magna cum laude, south Bend, indiana 
Jennifer Lynn Perugini, carlisle, massachusetts 
Iris Havlina Donovan Petersen, cum laude, olympia, Washington 
Jamie Lynn Pfaff, cum laude, san antonio, texas 
Kevin Anh Phan, Garden Grove, california 
Jaqueline-Mae A. Picache, fort lee, new Jersey 
Hilary Elizabeth Pitner, cincinnati, ohio 
Niall J. Platt, south Bend, indiana 
Kristina Marie Porada, clarendon hills, illinois 
Anna Marie Powers, columbia, missouri 
Mariana Prado Anaya, las vegas, nevada 
Stephanie Marie Prince, menomonee falls, Wisconsin 
Emily Rose K. Punzalan, sparks, nevada 
Jessica Marie Puricelli, cum laude, saint louis, missouri 
Antoinette Josephine M.J. Pusateri, magna cum laude, dublin,  ohio 
Thomas Martin Ramker, chesterton, indiana 
Kathleen Marie Raskob, cum laude, colorado springs, colorado 
Neal Giri Ravindra, cum laude, carmel, indiana 
Connor Thoman Reider, columbus, ohio 
Monica Ga Eun Rhee, Benicia, california 
Michael John Rice, cum laude, south Bend, indiana 
Jeremy Michael Riche, Pensacola, florida 
Maureen Bridget Riegert, cum laude, Greendale, Wisconsin 
John Markus Rieth, magna cum laude, oakdale, minnesota 
Charlotte Angèle Riggs, frederick, maryland 
Erika Lorena Rivera, cum laude, houston, texas 
Michael Nicholas Robbe, Beverly hills, michigan 
Taylor Jean Roberts, cum laude, Kingwood, texas 
Manuel Rocha, Kent, ohio 
Lily Harlaine Rodgers, edgewood, Kentucky 
Olaf Rodriguez, mcallen, texas 
Rachel Anne Rogers, los altos, california 
Katherine Beatrice Rohrbacker, Gladstone, new Jersey 
Hillary Beatrice Rolfs, nashotah, Wisconsin 
Joseph William Romano, cum laude, river forest, illinois 
Andrea Marie Rosado, Brentwood, new york 
Cody Adam Ruiz, Barstow, california 
Paulina Del Mar Rullán Farinacci, Ponce, Puerto rico 
Michael Gregory Russell, Bellevue, Washington 
Kerry Claire Ryan, spring lake, michigan 
Giselle Marie Sabal, frankfort, illinois 
Morgan Elizabeth Salkowski, cum laude, Bel air, maryland 
Liliana Z. Samano, fresno, california 
Davis Todd Sandefur, Beaver dam, Kentucky 
Felicia Dea Satrio, Plano, texas 
Jonathan Carr Savakus, dexter, michigan 
*Jessica Lynn Binder Schaefer, Greendale, Wisconsin Anastasia Lea Schied, magna cum laude, indian head Park,  


 illinois Megan Christine Schlitt, memphis, tennessee Gregory Joseph Schmidt, effingham, illinois Lauren Michelle Schmitt, eagan, minnesota Mary Rose Schreck, magna cum laude, Berkeley, california Denyse ShuJuan Seah, singapore, singapore Alexandra Renée Searle, noblesville, indiana Kelsey McBride Sekanick, Girard, ohio #Luke Alexander Sernau, cum laude, south Bend, indiana James Patrick Shannon, sanibel, florida Jennifer Nicole Shehan, omaha, nebraska #Jonathan Stanley Sheperd, summa cum laude, oxford,  
 michigan Emily Anne Shepherd, south Bend, indiana Lucy Shi, chandler, arizona Emily Anne Siebert, summa cum laude, saint louis, missouri Emma Marie Sims, cum laude, dallas, texas Kristin Lynn Skowron, arlington heights, illinois Dayna Lee Smith, frankfort, illinois Lindsey Rae Smith, carrollton, texas Lucy Robben Smith, Ballwin, missouri *Luke Mckim Smith, north Potomac, maryland Nicholas David Smith, sandwich, illinois Roger Stephen Smith, magna cum laude, homer Glen, illinois Michael Joseph Smoljan, south Bend, indiana Tyler Sonsalla, eau claire, Wisconsin Connor Michael Sorensen, Portage, michigan, posthumously Adam Souchik, cum laude, Blue Bell, Pennsylvania Kristin Nicole Springer, magna cum laude, new albany, ohio Melissa Ann Stahl, vienna, virginia Mark William Stechschulte, dublin, ohio Aaron H. Steele, new orleans, louisiana Christopher Michael Steiner, magna cum laude, new albany,  
 ohio Julia Josephine Steines-Berkemeier, Jackson, michigan Robert Alexander Stoddard, huntington Beach, california Kevin Alexander Strickland, southborough, massachusetts Jordan Michael Stumph, cum laude, Westerville, ohio Gwyneth Anne Sullivan, long Grove, illinois Margaret Connor Sullivan, Winston salem, north carolina Jennifer Lee Szotek, cum laude, tinley Park, illinois Arturo Jose Tablada, miami, florida Samantha Marie Taylor, magna cum laude, fort lauderdale, 
 florida Nimmy Josephine Thomas, Plano, texas Rebecca Louise Thomas, rochester hills, michigan Connor Patrick Tice, cum laude, Kalispell, montana Kevin John Timperman, centerville, ohio Michelle Tiffany Tin, auburn, alabama Jasen Philip Tjahjadi, shanghai, People's republic of china Rachel Elizabeth Tonnis, cincinnati, ohio Christopher Adam Torres, cum laude, oviedo, florida Casey Michael Treuting, Kenner, louisiana Michael P. Tripp, rochester, new york Do Trong Thanh, ho chi minh city, vietnam Hollyn Spencer Trudell, cum laude, rocky river, ohio Christopher Charles Trumbetta, latrobe, Pennsylvania Kaitlin Jane VanderKolk, summa cum laude, arvada, colorado Christopher Kevin Vanderschans, magna cum laude, 
studio city, california 
Tracy Ann VandeWater, cum laude, sheboygan, Wisconsin Alec Michael Vanthournout, Geneva, illinois Michael Richard Vella, minneapolis, minnesota Valerie Ann Verdun, cum laude, Byron, illinois John Michael Vernon, annapolis, maryland Johnathan Nicholas Vidovich, cum laude, Perrysburg, ohio Amelia Rose Vojt, mendon, new york Jing Wang, cum laude, aurora, illinois Zachary James Weems, san antonio, texas Joseph Robert White II, magna cum laude, Jackson, michigan Nicholas C. Williams, anaheim, california Andrew James Wilson, monroe, connecticut Daniel Joseph Winnike, Jr., menlo Park, california Connie Minah Woo, la habra, california Daniel Runqiao Wu, iowa city, iowa Luke Yin Xiao, millburn, new Jersey Charles Cong Yang Xu, magna cum laude, Wuhan, 
People's republic of china 
Alexander Christopher Yaney, summa cum laude, fort Wayne,  indiana 
Megan Lynn Yanik, Plymouth, michigan 
Clare Elizabeth Yarka, littleton, colorado 
Sylvia Seokhee Yong, cum laude, Gainesville, florida 
Abraham Chanyang Yu, cum laude, el Paso, texas 
Seung Eun Yu, columbus, ohio 
Gregory Lyle Yungtum, sumner, iowa 
Kathleen Ann Zenker, Burnsville, minnesota 
Bihan Zhu, cum laude, nanjing, People's republic of china 
*Participating with his/her class #Graduating with senior Thesis 




the deGree OF BaChelOr OF sCieNCe iN aerOsPaCe eNGiNeeriNG ON: 
Candidates for degree May 18, 2014 Tyler Adam Bartlow, magna cum laude, long Grove, illinois Joseph Gregory Bedell, houston, texas Patrick Edward Doyle, Jacksonville, illinois Robert William Gates, Baton rouge, louisiana Margaret Rose Harrison, northborough, massachusetts Jacob Eli Hook, Boise, idaho Jordan Scott Hoover, summa cum laude, chesterton, indiana Peter D. Horton, rochester, new york *Benjamin Jacob Isack, mokena, illinois Sarah Anne Jackson, Bellbrook, ohio Nicholas John Keleher, Bartlesville, oklahoma Barrett Franciszek Kroll, rockford, illinois Matthew David Kudija, Paso robles, california Austin Louis Lagomarsino, scottsdale, arizona Murphy Patrick Lester, magna cum laude, dartmouth,  
 massachusetts Mitchell James Lopes, simi valley, california #Patrick Kough McFarlane, magna cum laude, newtown,  
Pennsylvania Eliseo Lopes Miranda, Brockton, massachusetts Sebastian Ortega, san Jose, california Mark Roman Paluta, magna cum laude, Plymouth, minnesota Brian Kevin Quinn, summa cum laude, Berlin, connecticut Stephany Rose Roberts, vandalia, ohio *Ryan Alexander Snelling, Pine lake, Georgia Ryan James VanDeCasteele, cum laude, eldridge, iowa Patrick Joseph Wall, sugar land, texas *Danielle Nicole Welsh, la habra heights, california Daniel Joseph Yerkes, cum laude, river forest, illinois Ted William Zinzer, Jr., mesa, arizona 


the deGree OF BaChelOr OF sCieNCe iN ChemiCal eNGiNeeriNG ON: 
Candidates for degree May 18, 2014 
*Christopher Robert Andrews, Green river, Wyoming Sean Tod Armbruster, cum laude, Perrysburg, ohio Kevin Thomas Bednar, essex, vermont Catherine Jane Campbell, oakdale, minnesota Courtney Jane Simmons Campbell, West Bend, Wisconsin Kevin William Carr, nashville, tennessee Andrew Liang Champeau, hillsborough, california Alexander Nguyen Chau, tigard, oregon *Christian Douglas Clarke, irwin, Pennsylvania Erin Lindsey Cobb, honeoye falls, new york Michael J. Comuniello, magna cum laude, levittown, new york Maureen Elizabeth Connelly, cum laude, lisle, illinois Sarah Elizabeth Cressman, magna cum laude, sturgis, michigan Ashley Christine Dacy, Plano, texas Sara Kamali'i Yuriko Dale, magna cum laude, volcano, hawaii Kevin Andrew DiPasquale, summa cum laude, andover,  
 massachusetts 
#Quan Khanh Do, annandale, virginia Brandon James Dunham, magna cum laude, Plattsburgh,  
new york Leah Patrice Fisher, Palm harbor, florida William Covert Foran, cincinnati, ohio Jessica Dorothy Freeman, howell, new Jersey Lauren Michelle Fritz, coeur d'alene, idaho Christopher Michael Genco, Jr., saginaw, michigan Jonathan Lee Goad, charleston, West virginia Daniel T. Griess, saint louis, missouri Emma Christine Haduch, Palatine, illinois Anastasia Clare Hansen, houston, texas Dillon J. Hanson, lindsay, texas Brittany Marie Hark, north olmsted, ohio Andrew Karl Heldrich, magna cum laude, red lion,  
Pennsylvania Thomas Gregory Hillstrom, Jr., crystal lake, illinois Terry Christopher Hines, Greenwood, indiana William Alexander Holmes, cum laude, centennial, colorado Amanda Marie Horst, cum laude, dayton, ohio Kristen Marie Jackson, Bellbrook, ohio Jennifer Alexis Jones, cum laude, oregon, ohio Purterson Justilien, miami, florida Stacey M. Kindelan, cum laude, Jenkintown, Pennsylvania Daniel Peter Klisiewicz, cum laude, north andover,  
 massachusetts Claire Kathleen Kozak, magna cum laude, mount Prospect,  
 illinois Alexander Gavin Kray, Phoenixville, Pennsylvania Anthony Lawrence Krenselewski, magna cum laude, Portage,  
 michigan Erin Lee Krumenacker, mechanicsville, maryland #Nan Lan, Guangzhou, People's republic of china Claire Marie LaRosa, venetia, Pennsylvania Samantha Hannah Lee, Boise, idaho William Joseph Leigh, denver, colorado Mark Edward Leong, danville, california Madeline Louise McCloughan, saint Paul, minnesota Kelly Anne McGovern, silver spring, maryland Nicole E. McMillan, Boise, idaho Monica Pearl McNerney, summa cum laude, Pembroke Pines,  
 florida Samuel LeAngelo Mingo III, houston, texas Douglas Karl Mouch, cum laude, cincinnati, ohio Kristen Marie Newman, ridgeland, mississippi Connor Kazuyuki Noda, Wheaton, illinois Kathleen Donohue Nunn, Pittsford, new york Daniel Ellis O'Brien, Western springs, illinois Caitlin Patricia O'Connell, magna cum laude, dayton, ohio #Alex Santiago Oloriz, laguna niguel, california Christopher Thomas Patterson, cum laude, andover, new Jersey Truong N. Pham, magna cum laude, aurora, colorado Amy Catherine Porter, Pittsford, new york Laura Riedl Reinke, summa cum laude, Grant, minnesota Alexander Christian Richelsen, chaska, minnesota Samuel N. Roskos, Pennington, new Jersey Kelsey Megan Ryan, cum laude, cincinnati, ohio Nicholas James Schmeidler, Wichita, Kansas #Timothy Daniel Siegler, magna cum laude, new Berlin,  



Wisconsin Katherine Anne Silikowski, Plymouth, minnesota Erica Michelle Smith, cum laude, houston, texas #Thomas Joseph Michael Spoonmore, Zionsville, indiana Laura Lillian Stangler, cum laude, Plymouth, minnesota Philip Francis Stella, ann arbor, michigan Robert Gerard Suess, Jr., florissant, missouri Alex Kwan Szymborski, silver lake, ohio Adam Victor Talbot, Plantation, florida Kelsey Maxine Cua Tan, Kalookan, Philippines Tyler Earl Thomas, cum laude, Parker, colorado John Murphy Turek, la Grange Park, illinois Thomas James VanSlochem, Wellesley, massachusetts Diana Michelle Vega Pantoja, cum laude, Panama city, Panama *Vincent Peter Veschi, fogelsville, Pennsylvania Christopher C. Walker, north massapequa, new york Blake DeChellis Weaver, Weatherford, texas Kevin Michael Wilhelm, cincinnati, ohio Gordon August Winchester, emerald isle, north carolina Albany Aurea Zweber-Langer, lakeville, minnesota 


the deGree OF BaChelOr OF sCieNCe iN CiVil eNGiNeeriNG ON: 
Degree awarded August 7, 2013 
Hagil Chung, irvine, california 
Degree awarded January 5, 2014 
Stephen Vincent Santay, downers Grove, illinois Anna Nicole Wanzek, magna cum laude, fargo, north dakota 
Candidates for degree May 18, 2014 Elizabeth Anne Andruszkiewicz, cum laude, Providence,  
rhode island 
William Loucks Beverly, Jacksonville, florida 
*Will Francis Clarke Connors, san carlos, california 
Kevin David Fink, cum laude, Brookfield, Wisconsin 
Omar Alejandro Garcia, south Bend, indiana 
Kevin Michael Hassett, Beaverton, oregon 
Erik Loren Jensen, Bismarck, north dakota 
Colleen Elizabeth Kerins, vienna, virginia 
Kevin Tyler Kiefer, hinsdale, illinois 
Jason David Koncsol, Birmingham, alabama 
Jeffrey Daniel Kraemer, cincinnati, ohio 
Maria Anita Krug, cum laude, sulphur, oklahoma 
Lauren August Ladowski, magna cum laude, lisle, illinois 
Martin P. Le, Brenham, texas 
Jennifer Catherine Loconsole, cum laude, Glen ellyn, illinois 
*Patrick Amari Mathews, seattle, Washington 
Margaret McKim Mauel, houston, texas 
Chase Timothy Mlnarik, Plymouth, minnesota 
Emily Jean Murphy, saint louis, missouri 
Ellen Marie Napoli, shaker heights, ohio 
Spencer Eugene Ness, new carlisle, indiana 
Andrew Thomas O'Malley, West chester, Pennsylvania 
#Emily Erin Coats Palmer, cum laude, olympia, Washington 
Colleen Grace Pelletier, atlanta, Georgia 
William James Raseman, cum laude, Barrington, illinois John Patrick Reilly, haverford, Pennsylvania Daniel Joseph Rish, summa cum laude, courtdale, Pennsylvania Paul Martin Rodriguez, dallas, texas Allison M. Rotella, loveland, ohio Caleigh Morgan Ruether, Jefferson city, missouri Ryan Margery Russ, Golden, colorado Jonathan Nicholas Schommer, Plainfield, indiana Claire Anne Sieradzki, south Bend, indiana Patrick Sean Smith, Wilmette, illinois Roberto Sosa, Panama city, Panama Kevin Joseph Stewart, cincinnati, ohio Julia Maria Teixeira, Granger, indiana Kathleen Sarah Wilson, mobile, alabama Maria Beth Wilson, Girard, Kansas Paul Edward Wojtal, cedar Grove, new Jersey Kun Hee Yi, olympia, Washington Ethan Lee Zartman, magna cum laude, fulton, indiana 

the deGree OF BaChelOr OF sCieNCe iN COmPuter eNGiNeeriNG ON: 
Candidates for degree May 18, 2014 
Sean Edward Cogan, Willoughby, ohio Joseph Thomas Fetsch, auburn, alabama *Waleed Elharith Johnson, detroit, michigan Kevin Seamus McGinn, summa cum laude, rochester, new york Luke William Westby, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 


the deGree OF BaChelOr OF sCieNCe iN COmPuter sCieNCe ON: 
Degree awarded January 5, 2014 
Caitlin Marie Cunningham, raleigh, north carolina Benjamin Michael Curl, cum laude, osceola, indiana Robert Christopher Wirthman, cum laude, columbus, ohio 
Candidates for degree May 18, 2014 
Gina Ching Lan Andrews, arcadia, california Scott Aufderheide, Peoria, arizona Justin Matthew Bartlett, cum laude, West chester, Pennsylvania Amelia Claire Bauer, hinsdale, illinois Matthew Patrick Brittan, cum laude, south Bend, indiana Craig Russell Cahillane, magna cum laude, rockford, illinois Andrea Sullivan Cescolini, san diego, california Michael Joseph Duggan, amherst, new york Elise Ann Eiden, Brecksville, ohio *Iheanyi Pete Ekechukwu, myrtle Beach, south carolina Joseph Thomas Fetsch, auburn, alabama Matthew Joseph Fitzgerald, centennial, colorado Jacob Allen Flynt, malta, new york *Christine Marie Gerardi, clovis, california Daniel Joseph Gomez, Belleville, illinois Taryn Marie Green, cum laude, Kalamazoo, michigan Christopher Joseph Groce, cum laude, milford, michigan *Darin Christopher Habermel, sellersburg, indiana Kevin Michael Jacobs, cum laude, roscoe, illinois Charles S. Jhin, cum laude, houston, texas *Paul Chandler Kennedy, louisville, Kentucky Eli Joseph Kloswick, edwardsburg, michigan 



Dustin Liaw, ontario, california *Ryan Michael Liebscher, colorado springs, colorado John Vincent Mapelli, West nyack, new york Casey Michael O'Meilia, cum laude, Palm Beach Gardens,  
 florida John Patrick Quinn, cum laude, red hook, new york Patrick Thomas Raycroft, cum laude, munster, indiana Mark Andrew Riehm, magna cum laude, stillwater, minnesota David Augustus Schalkwijk Lopes, cum laude, são Paulo, Brazil Taylor Edward Seale, ogden, utah Ryan Alexander Shea, elmhurst, illinois Kevin Matthew Sonnen, cum laude, arvada, colorado Samuel Isaac Tarín, summa cum laude, albuquerque,  
new mexico Ashley Taylor, Plano, texas Nicholas John Taylor, cum laude, findlay, ohio Eric Michael Vaughn, apache Junction, arizona Jeremy Edward Vercillo, ashburn, virginia Nathaniel Dennis Wickham, tacoma, Washington Natalia Ann Woodbine, elk Grove village, illinois Alexander Ryan Yurkowski, holmdel, new Jersey Byron Matthew Zaragoza, virginia Beach, virginia Aubrey Elizabeth Zielinski, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 


the deGree OF BaChelOr OF sCieNCe iN eleCtriCal eNGiNeeriNG ON: 
Degree awarded January 5, 2014 
Jacob Bjorn Thordahl, albuquerque, new mexico 
Candidates for degree May 18, 2014 Calvin Anthony Belden, magna cum laude, mahtomedi, 
 minnesota Timothy Gerard Bontrager, cum laude, overland Park, Kansas Matthew Patrick Creehan, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Lucas Sergio de la Fuente Munita, santiago, chile Bryan Alberto Dimas, houston, texas Sarah Elaine Divel, summa cum laude, rockville, maryland Lindsey Johanna Forsberg, summa cum laude, saint Paul,  
 minnesota Denise Sara Garcia, Buda, texas Kelsey Ann Han, summa cum laude, omaha, nebraska Gian Paul Handal, tegucigalpa, honduras Galen Henry Harden, san diego, california Elizabeth Rose Huschke, cum laude, eden Prairie, minnesota Jung Whan Kim, seoul, republic of Korea Irere Romeo Kwihangana, dayton, ohio Ka Hin Lee, new york, new york Fernando Lozano, riverside, california Lauren Renee Mahle, springboro, ohio Michael Vincent Manno, magna cum laude, rocky river, ohio Veronica Isabel Martinez, olivehurst, california Jane Elizabeth McGuinness, summa cum laude, Killingworth, 
 connecticut John Kent Moore II, vero Beach, florida Casey Thomas Morris, magna cum laude, london, ohio Robert Andrew Mustak, elkhart, indiana Jaclyn Lee Nord, Jackson, tennessee John Patrick O'Brien, magna cum laude, columbus, ohio Bryce Richard Persichetti, cum laude, el cajon, california James Brennan Phillips, saint charles, missouri Angela Marie Savela, Grand rapids, minnesota Benjamin Joel Shenk, Goshen, indiana Joshua Steven Vahala, cum laude, dallas, texas Shane Arthur Verploegh, south Bend, indiana Alexander James Wentzel, downington, Pennsylvania Patrick Scannell Whalen, Wescosville, Pennsylvania Justin Dean Yoder, cum laude, middlebury, indiana Nicholas Jose Yulan, houston, texas 

the deGree OF BaChelOr OF sCieNCe iN eNVirONmeNtal GeOsCieNCes ON: 
Degree awarded August 7, 2013 
Madeline Frazer Smierciak, danbury, connecticut 
Candidates for degree May 18, 2014 Megan Kathleen Dustin, cum laude, Gambrills, maryland 


the deGree OF BaChelOr OF sCieNCe iN meChaNiCal eNGiNeeriNG ON: 
Candidates for degree May 18, 2014 
Nicole Marie Acaso, Baltimore, maryland Ryan J. Barba, irwin, Pennsylvania Kurt Edward Beatty, magna cum laude, Wexford, Pennsylvania *Brendan Gene Becht, south Bend, indiana Kathryn Anne Bernazzani, norwood, massachusetts Nicholas D. Boyle, arlington heights, illinois Colleen Marie Casey, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Christopher Donald Cheney, magna cum laude, aurora, illinois Catherine Chukwulebe, lansing, illinois Julia Patrice Concelman, summa cum laude, Wexford, 
Pennsylvania 
Collin Michael Corcoran, randolph, new Jersey 
Courtney Marie Cosgrove, magna cum laude, Wilmette, illinois 
Emily Marie Matteson de Araujo, Bronson, michigan 
Peter O'Rourke Diamond, homer Glen, illinois 
Jennifer Hong An Doan, houston, texas 
*Michael John Dobbertin, rochester, new york 
Nicholas Carter Donnelly, Wexford, Pennsylvania 
Firas Hussam Fasheh, amman, Jordan 
Roberto Feng Chang, las Piedras, Puerto rico 
Elizabeth Ann FitzGerald, colleyville, texas 
Neil Henry Flattery, south Bend, indiana 
Courtney Lynn Gaberino, Pewaukee, Wisconsin 
Alexander Beaudin Gallanis, macomb, michigan 
Maximilian Luke Geraci, magna cum laude, aurora, colorado 
Samuel Arthur Gergets, elmhurst, illinois 
*Pierre Eghosa Timothy Guobadia, Brooklyn, new york 
Gregory Paul Habiak, laurys station, Pennsylvania 
Gregory John Hamisevicz, dunn loring, virginia 
Shane Montgomery Hannon, Bethesda, maryland 
Andrew George Harper, Kensington, maryland 
Joseph Brendan Heinz, Peoria, illinois 
Katherine Jeanne Herrmann, saint louis, missouri 
Patrick Owen Hickey, mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania 
Thomas Paul Hickey, virginia Beach, virginia 
Andrew Paull Hill, louisville, Kentucky 


Matthew Robert Kelly, river forest, illinois Michael Stefan Kochanski, cum laude, Bartlett, illinois Evan James Komoroski, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Kirsten Marie Kozlovsky, sunnyvale, california Wilm Gerhard Kranz, magna cum laude, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania 
Michael Francis Lamb, river falls, Wisconsin 
Blake Vincent Lantero, Wheaton, illinois 
Jessica Michelle Balash Lencioni, magna cum laude, rancho santa margarita, california 
Christopher York Lillie, summa cum laude, rochester, michigan 
Luis Felipe Llanos, cali, colombia 
Brandon Kekoa Low, magna cum laude, honolulu, hawaii 
Kaitlin Therese Maggiore, lombard, illinois 
Anand Karthik Mani, houston, texas 
Nicolas Camilo Martinez Prieto, magna cum laude, Bogota,  colombia 
James Joseph McClay IV, cary, north carolina 
Charles Peter McGervey III, Bethel Park, Pennsylvania 
Olivia A. McIntee, sylvania, ohio 
Imelda C. Mendez, san antonio, texas 
Colby Austin Meyer, cum laude, canyon, texas 
Paul Matthew Minutolo, cincinnati, ohio 
Jacob Philip Pellegrini, magna cum laude, newport Beach,   california 
Eric Stephen Reed, memphis, tennessee 
#Colleen Frances Reidy, cum laude, Buffalo, new york 
Daniel Henry Reitz, saint louis, missouri 
Logan Joshua Renwick, summa cum laude, Butler, Pennsylvania 
David Charles Rohrs, los altos, california 
Matthew Joseph Romano, stuart, florida 
#Joseph Matthew Rudy, cum laude, lancaster, Pennsylvania 
Arnold James Schmidt, cum laude, Billings, montana 
Nicole Noel Simon, clifton, virginia 
Martin Walker Singer, magna cum laude, defiance, ohio 
Daniel J. F. Smyth, custer, Wisconsin 
Nicholas John Snyder, oakford, Pennsylvania 
Cynthia Ann Stanley, Greenville, south carolina 
Michelle Elizabeth Tremblay, excelsior, minnesota 
Andrew Francis Troy, toledo, ohio 
*Nicholas Edward Turner, Phoenix, maryland 
Matthew Joseph Unger, cleveland, ohio 
Joseph James Vuto, cum laude, monroe, connecticut 
Andrew Scott Willenborg, summa cum laude, effingham, illinois 
Katie Lee Winter, hutchinson, Kansas 
Rachel Autumn Wright, Greensburg, Pennsylvania 
Ramon Eduardo Yip Yip, tegucigalpa, honduras 
*James Michael Ziemba, houston, texas 
*Participating with his/her class #Graduating with senior Thesis 




mendoZa colleGe of Business diPloma ceremony 
SUNDAY, MAY 18, 2014 
1:30 P.M. EDT JOYCE CENTER - NORTH DOME 



169 th
university of notre dame commencement



mendoZa colleGe of Business 
Processional 
Processional music 
The notre dame concert Band Kenneth W. dye, ed.d., director lawrence h. dwyer, assistant director 
america the Beautiful 
O Beautiful for spacious skies, For amber waves of grain For purple mountain majesties Above the fruited plain. America! America! God shed his grace on thee, And crown thy good with brotherhood from sea to shining sea. 
—Bates-Ward 
invocation 
Convening of the Convocation 
William d. nichols associate dean of the mendoza college of Business and Professor of accountancy 
special address 
diploma Ceremony address 
roger d. huang martin J. Gillen dean of the mendoza college of Business and Professor of Global investment management 
distribution of diplomas  
department of accountancy 
h. fred mittelstaedt deloitte foundation Professor of accountancy and department chair 
department of Finance 
richard r. mendenhall William and cassie daley Professor of finance and department chair 
department of management 
david B. hartvigsen John W. Berry sr. Professor of Business  and department chair 
department of marketing 
John f. sherry raymond W. and Kenneth G. herrick Professor of marketing and department chair 
Benediction 
Closing of the Convocation 
Notre dame, Our mother (alma mater) 
Notre Dame, Our Mother, tender, strong and true Proudly in the heavens gleams thy gold and blue. Glory's mantle cloaks thee, golden is thy fame And our hearts forever praise thee, Notre Dame; And our hearts forever love thee, Notre Dame. 
—o'donnell-casasanta 
recessional 
recessional of the Platform Party, faculty 
Notre dame Victory march 
Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame, Wake up the echoes cheering her name, Send a volley cheer on high, Shake down the thunder from the sky. What though the odds be great or small Old Notre Dame will win over all, While her loyal sons are marching Onward to victory. 
—shea-shea 
* it is customary for men, although not for women, wearing academic garb to have their caps removed during the commencement address and the singing of the alma mater. 


the deGree OF BaChelOr OF BusiNess admiNistratiON: 
Degree awarded August 7, 2013 
Alicia Charlotte Martinez, Pleasanton, california Gerek Lin Meinhardt, cum laude, san francisco, california Rachel Lynn Nestor, Gibsonia, Pennsylvania Julian DeAndre Smith, nashville, tennessee William Alexander Tudor, Pineville, louisiana 
Degree awarded January 5, 2014 
Nima Bahreini, silver spring, maryland Nicholas Daniel Fitzpatrick, orlando, florida John Robert Gardner, magna cum laude, north tustin, 
 california Ryan Christopher Grojean, mission hills, Kansas Katherine Hannah Johnson, fort lauderdale, florida Jennifer Elizabeth Kellner, summa cum laude, smithtown,  
new york Mackenzie Grace Kraft, summa cum laude, Bloomington,   illinois Qiancheng Lu, cum laude, Jiaxing, Zhejiang, People's republic of china Gregory Robert Mitchell, magna cum laude, Westfield, 
new Jersey Matthew J. Moore, Glenview, illinois John Francis Nofs, troy, michigan Kyle Vijay Patel, magna cum laude, chino hills, california Thomas Kevin Rees, lake Bluff, illinois Chelsea De Salvo Sarikas, arlington heights, illinois Harrison M. Shipp, magna cum laude, lake forest, illinois Ryan Matthew Sullivan, newburyport, massachusetts Paulina Lind Tiu Tan, magna cum laude, Pasig city, Philippines Grant Thomas Van De Casteele, cum laude, Plano, texas Michael Dominic Varraveto, leawood, Kansas Thomas Lester Voutsos, magna cum laude, allen Park, michigan Alexander Frederick Welch, cincinnati, ohio George Xiao, flushing, new york Tong Zhao, liaoning, People's republic of china 
Degree awarded May 18, 2014 
Andrew Karl Aaronian, monrovia, california Tomás Pablo Abrate, Peoria, arizona Joshua Roman Abueva, cum laude, Philippines Natalie Chioma Achonwa, Guelph, ontario, canada April Lynne Adams, Kansas city, missouri Benjamin Anthony Alexander, memphis, tennessee Eric Yang Yang An, magna cum laude, diamond Bar, california Michael Joseph Anderson, Buffalo, new york Colton Reed Andrews, Boynton Beach, florida Gregory Scott Andrews, magna cum laude, Kalamazoo,  
 michigan Douglas John Angulo, magna cum laude, riverside, california James J. Antoniotti, hasbrouck heights, new Jersey Donald Andres Arana Tefel, Guatemala city, Guatemala Blair Elizabeth Arbuckle, cum laude, spesbach, Germany Emily Moira Arjani, magna cum laude, chagrin falls, ohio Jacob A. Armijo, Belen, new mexico Madelaine Leigh Asbury, fort collins, colorado 
Edward C. Ateyeh III, austin, texas Christopher Ricardo Puno Ayala, chesterfield, missouri Colin Buckley Babcock, covington, louisiana Brittany Ann Backstrand, fort myers, florida Whitley Kathleen Bacon, lilburn, Georgia Elliot Lawrence Badar, saint Paul, minnesota Ryan S. Bandy, cincinnati, ohio Mackin John Bannon, cum laude, Warsaw, indiana Dasuni Janine Baptist, colombo, sri lanka Haley Marie Barnes, south Bend, indiana Paul Justin Barron, oakland, michigan Connor J. Barth, cum laude, chapel hill, north carolina Bret Timothy Basilone, springdale, Pennsylvania Javon Daniel Bea, cum laude, oronoco, minnesota Jared Parker Beers, mishawaka, indiana Thomas John Bender, cum laude, evansville, indiana Jason Thomas Bergstrand, cum laude, Granger, indiana Caroline Therese Bernardi, normal, illinois Gregory Philip Berryman, old lyme, connecticut Robert W. Besio, summa cum laude, hinsdale, illinois Samuel Thomas Biel, fort myers, florida Sadie Autumn Birdsong, el centro, california Tyler Richard Bliha, summa cum laude, niles, michigan Andrew S. Blonigan, Zurich, switzerland Aubreanna Josephine Bobb, sunnyvale, california Caitlin Elizabeth Bobber, cum laude, mequon, Wisconsin Netania Meilia Boentaram, redmond, Washington Meredith Ann Bolka, herndon, virginia Patricia Delia Bordería, yarmouth, maine Emanuel John Adrian Borg, magna cum laude, sacramento, 
 california Elizabeth Staley Boswell, cum laude, midlothian, virginia Maegan Kathleen Boucher, cum laude, dillsburg, Pennsylvania Ashley Elizabeth Bowman, new york, new york Douglas John Boyd, magna cum laude, Weston, florida Madison Lauren Boyle, Paradise valley, arizona Daniel Matthew Brach, Granger, indiana Andrew Stephen Brady, cum laude, saint louis, missouri Christina Marie Bramanti, houston, texas Timothy William Brazelton, robbinsville, new Jersey Cameron Charles Breisch, magna cum laude, edwardsburg, 
 michigan *Kimberly Alice Bretz, south Bend, indiana Michael Logan Britt, summa cum laude, minnetonka, 
 minnesota Andrew David Brock, seymour, indiana Kaitlyn Brosco, shoreham, new york Patrick Henesy Brosnan, cum laude, Garden city, new york James Lawrence Lenahan Brown III, dallas, Pennsylvania Leon Isaac Brown, mattapan, massachusetts Michelle Elizabeth Brown, shamong, new Jersey Samantha Marie Brown, santa Barbara, california Edward McMillin Bruce, laGrange, illinois Austin Michael Bruen, carmel, indiana Erich Alexander Bruhn, summa cum laude, Winchester, virginia Eric Anthony Brumleve, summa cum laude, louisville, Kentucky Matthew James Bruno, canastota, new york Zachary C. Bublitz, cum laude, roselle, illinois 


Brian Anthony Bucciarelli, cum laude, Joliet, illinois Emma Elizabeth Buckley, magna cum laude, downers Grove,  
 illinois 
Brian Vincent Buglione, vestal, new york 
Samuel Dwight Bungum, Park ridge, illinois 
Jacob Edward Burger, dublin, ohio 
Maxwell Damian Burianek, louisville, Kentucky 
Kelly Tara Burke, cranford, new Jersey 
Sarah Rose Burt, stillwater, minnesota 
Felicia Leigh Byrd, rocky mount, north carolina 
Daniel Michael Byrne, Bettendorf, iowa 
Patrick Thomas Callaghan, tucson, arizona 
Patrick James Callahan, cum laude, clarendon hills, illinois 
Joseph Raphael Cammarosano III, magna cum laude, long Beach, new york 
Brian Patrick Campbell, saint louis, missouri 
Justin Daniel Campbell, cum laude, canton, ohio 
Peter Antimo Candel, cum laude, Burr ridge, illinois 
Scott Francis Canna, cum laude, south Bend, indiana 
João Alberto Capanema Mansur, rio de Janeiro, Brazil 
Andrew Joseph Carreon, san antonio, texas 
Brian Carrion, richmond, texas 
Katherine Tracy Carter, magna cum laude, san diego, california 
Gabriel Michael Casey, niles, michigan 
Elizabeth Carolyn Cassi, fort collins, colorado 
Patrick James Cavanaugh, irvine, california 
Taylor Anne Celedinas, Palm Beach, florida 
Amanda Lyn Chamblee, south Bend, indiana 
Guillermo O. Chapman Zubieta, Panama city, Panama 
Jonathan David Chepkevich, leechburg, Pennsylvania 
Michael Lawrence Chernauskas, magna cum laude, collierville,  tennessee 
Eric Ryan Ciura, summa cum laude, hoffman estates, illinois 
Adrianne Jo Cline, cum laude, mcclave, colorado 
Matthew Parker Clinton, Glastonbury, connecticut 
Scott Matthew Coats, montpelier, ohio 
Mary Catherine Coghlin, cum laude, colorado springs,  colorado 
Matthew Emmett Collins, Bethesda, maryland 
Austin Charles Collinsworth, fort Thomas, Kentucky 
Julie Kathleen Comfort, cum laude, la Grange, illinois 
Nicholas T. Conrad, Bayville, new Jersey 
Kirsten Jane Conrath, summa cum laude, indian head Park,  illinois 
Daniel James Cook, la Grange Park, illinois 
Benjamin James Cooper, cum laude, coeur d'alene, idaho 
Jeffrey Michael Costello, milwaukee, Wisconsin 
John Michael Cotter, summa cum laude, east aurora, new york 
Kristen S. Cousins, Glen ridge, new Jersey 
Kyle O'Keefe Craft, tulsa, oklahoma 
Sarah Elizabeth Crippin, summa cum laude, saint louis,   missouri 
Mattimore Cronin, magna cum laude, Pacific Palisades,   california 
Will Patrick Cronin, elmhurst, illinois 
Patrick Thomas Cross, West des moines, iowa 
Michael Patrick Crowley, Jr., los Gatos, california 
Matthew Lawrence Cunningham, tulsa, oklahoma 
Daniel Peter D'Agrosa, vista, california 
Ryan Matthew Daly, elmhurst, illinois 
Michael K. Darche, cum laude, Basking ridge, new Jersey 
Patrick William Darcy, carmel, indiana Emma Arlene Dashut, naperville, illinois Chelsea Elizabeth DeBoer, magna cum laude, ada, michigan Matthew Philip DeFranks, miami, florida Sebastian E. de las Casas, miami, florida Carlos Alberto De Obaldia Navarro, Panama city, Panama Benjamin Antonio Diaz, novi, michigan David Alexander Díaz, tipp city, ohio Christopher Daniel Dillon, littleton, colorado Wenda Ding, nanjing, People's republic of china Frank Rocco DiZenzo, Jr., Boca raton, florida Alexandria Antoinette Doctor, munster, indiana Sean Michael Doherty, elmhurst, illinois Brendan Robert Dolan, albany, new york Joseph Karl Dolan, fairfield, connecticut Casey Marie Dollard, downers Grove, illinois Daniel Sabastian Domingo, Punta Gorda, florida Grace Mary Dooley, chicago, illinois Sarah Catherine Dotzel, cum laude, south Bend, indiana Joseph Harry Doumit, cum laude, tumwater, Washington James T. Christopher Dowsett, honolulu, hawaii Sarah Henriot Doyle, lynchburg, virginia Patricia Hope Dubuque, Boston, massachusetts Connor Mark Duffy, cum laude, naperville, illinois Kathleen Margaret Duffy, collegeville, Pennsylvania Patrick James Dugan II, Weston, florida Thomas Ryan Dunn, south Windsor, connecticut John Parker Dwyer, Zionsville, indiana Frank Kirk Dyer III, loudonville, new york Alexander Robert Eaton, Bridgewater, new Jersey Heather Michelle Eaton, cum laude, columbia, missouri Christopher Michael Edger, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Anne McGuire Egan, lake forest, illinois Sean Thomas Egan, la Grange Park, illinois James Allen Eichelberger II, atlanta, Georgia Sarah Elizabeth Eide, cum laude, Plymouth, minnesota Katrina Lynne Emery, cary, illinois Tara Renee Erb, Thousand oaks, california Christian Mariano Estrada, managua, nicaragua *Allison Eleanor Fachetti, needham, massachusetts Brian Charles Falkenberg, Palatine, illinois *Thomas Patrick Falkenberg, elmhurst, illinois Erin Rose Falter, Plantation, florida Jingyi Fang, magna cum laude, shenzhen, 
People's republic of china Jonathan Faubert López-Velasco, summa cum laude, 
Guadalajara, mexico Steven Albert Feczko, summa cum laude, Butler, Pennsylvania Thomas Michael Feifar, Jr., inverness, illinois Erin Elizabeth Fessler, cum laude, new canaan, connecticut John Corley Fischer, staten island, new york Ryan Joseph Fish, summa cum laude, millville, massachusetts Sean Ryan Fitzgerald, magna cum laude, solana Beach, 
 california Sean Tsai Fitzgerald, mclean, virginia Sean Francis Flanagan, cum laude, Granger, indiana Vincent Anthony Forté, cincinnati, ohio Maria Anne Fotsch, cum laude, Brookfield, Wisconsin Robert Pierce Fowler, summit, new Jersey Kaitlin Jean Fox, cum laude, Bloomington, indiana Anna Elizabeth Smith Fraser, saint Paul, minnesota Eugene Fredrick Freeman IV, chicago, illinois Jacob Fred Frego III, cum laude, hudson, ohio Amanda Suzanne Frick, south Bend, indiana Ruowei Fu, magna cum laude, shanghai, 


People's republic of china Jenna Prescott Gagen, austin, texas Liam Sean Gallagher, newbury Park, california Michael Joseph Galzerano, Garden city, new york Lauren Elizabeth Ganshirt, cum laude, lake Bluff, illinois Nicole Lynn Gantz, summa cum laude, Wisconsin dells, 
Wisconsin Viviana Garcia, el Paso, texas John Patrick Garry, magna cum laude, eagan, minnesota Elizabeth Mary Garvin, magna cum laude, naperville, illinois Patrick Joseph Gaughan, Jr., middleboro, massachusetts Colin Patrick Geils, south Bend, indiana David Jon Gerths, ankeny, iowa Robert Charles Gialessas, lemont, illinois Edward Connor Gibbons, cary, illinois Elizabeth Ann Gibbons, henderson, nevada Michael Stephen Gills, colorado springs, colorado Julia M. Giorgio, Greenwich, connecticut Daniel Richard Glaser, Greensburg, indiana John Thomas Gore, cum laude, Portage, indiana Martin John Grady, Burr ridge, illinois Christopher Joseph Grant, Wayne, Pennsylvania Marykate Green, south Bend, indiana Rachel Emily Greenberg, oak Brook, illinois Allyson Michelle Grillot, springfield, missouri Sirui Gu, chengdu, People's republic of china Nathan Daniel Guaglianone, north Wales, Pennsylvania Guillermo P. Guerra Pfaeffle, managua, nicaragua Thomas William Guilfoile, cum laude, duxbury, massachusetts Ma. Sharlene Guiriba, cum laude, chicago, illinois Kyle Joseph Gurrola, houston, texas Cristina Gutiérrez Köng, Guatemala city, Guatemala Brittany Marie Haas, albuquerque, new mexico Brandon Reid Hall, magna cum laude, orono, minnesota Ian James Hall, upper saddle river, new Jersey Michelle Nicole Hannegan, saint louis, missouri Conor Patrick Hanney, cum laude, Jacksonville, florida Zachary Corso Hargis, los altos, california Molly Stuart Hartwick, los angeles, california Turner Austin Harty, summa cum laude, minneapolis,
 minnesota Joseph Leonard Haskins III, indianapolis, indiana Camille Larenne Hayes, menasha, Wisconsin Sean Patrick Healey, south Bend, indiana Conor Patrick Healy, south Bend, indiana Bruce Woodham Heggie, sorrento, florida Erica Lynn Heissler, Burlington, illinois Calvin Hunt Hemington, Portola valley, california Andrew Patrick Hennessey, ozark, missouri William Byron Henry, houston, texas Saman Warain Herath, tokyo, Japan Harland Lucas Heus, new holstein, Wisconsin Brian Patrick Higgins, magna cum laude, north Wales, 
Pennsylvania Dominique Michelle Higgins, summa cum laude, la verne, 
 california Kristian Hila, summa cum laude, lakewood, ohio Sara Anne Hillstrom, Bradenton, florida Madeline Anne Hirsch, Wilmette, illinois Donald Allen Hissa, iron river, Wisconsin Kinsey Rebecca Hoffman, cum laude, urbandale, iowa Erin Bailey Hogan, charlotte, north carolina Hyun Jee Hong, cum laude, yongin, People's republic of Korea Shelby Renee Hood, magna cum laude, Kerrville, texas Douglas Weston Hopkins, cum laude, newtown, Pennsylvania Meredith Anne Houska, Plymouth, michigan John Blaize Hrabrick, Bryn mawr, Pennsylvania Annie Hu, chicago, illinois Patrick Brennan Hughes, Glenview, illinois Peter James Hummer, cleveland, ohio Kiran Ikram, Karachi, Pakistan Isabel Izurieta, Quito, ecuador Peter James Jacullo, magna cum laude, ridgefield, connecticut Matthew Joseph James, cincinnati, ohio, posthumously Laura Joan Janulewicz, summa cum laude, lansdale, 
Pennsylvania James Albert Jennings, magna cum laude, ellicott city,  
 maryland Stephen Paul Johns, Wampum, Pennsylvania Forrest Douglas Johnson, hudson, ohio Michael Stephen Johnson, yarmouth, maine Natia Ann Jonas, cum laude, Pepperell, massachusetts Maura Elaine Jones, altoona, Pennsylvania Patrick Owen Kaiser, Grosse Pointe Park, michigan Emily Elizabeth Kalish, lafayette, indiana Kelsie Elizabeth Kam, Kaneohe, hawaii Matthew Robert Kane, seattle, Washington Lauren Elizabeth Katen, Breezy Point, new york John McHugh Kearney, cohasset, massachusetts James Richard Keena, Jr., cum laude, canton, michigan Kelly Rose Keenan, magna cum laude, Garden city, new york Grace R. Keesey, Park ridge, illinois Sean Erick Kelly, northfield, illinois Scott Joseph Kennedy, mission hills, Kansas Saad Rahim Khan, lahore, Pakistan Kevin Nooree Kim, seoul, republic of Korea Kathryn Dianne Kimmell, dallas, texas Anne Christen Kinman, denville, new Jersey Marissa Catherine Kinsley, cum laude, la Grange, illinois Kimberly Maureen Kirk, Wexford, Pennsylvania Philip Daniel Kissling, Plymouth, minnesota *Gina Marie Klingel, south Bend, indiana Michael Ortega Klingshirn, rockville, maryland Kenneth Revone Kluckman, cum laude, deerfield, illinois Katherine Elizabeth Knapp, magna cum laude, Wheelersburg, 
 ohio Charles John Martin Kohaut III, Parsippany, new Jersey Laurel Nicole Komos, magna cum laude, richfield, ohio Emily Grace Kopetsky, cum laude, indianapolis, indiana Miles Thomas Korth, cum laude, ada, michigan Kimberly Anne Kowalski, sparta, new Jersey Jacob Scott Kroenke, north Bend, nebraska Ian Patrick Krouse, lakewood ranch, florida Joseph Raymond Krug, springboro, ohio Lauren Anne Krumdick, downers Grove, illinois Tesa Ann Kubicek, lake forest, illinois Nickolas Alexander Kubik, san antonio, texas Allison Mary Kuhl, magna cum laude, stamford, nebraska Emily Victoria Kujawski, macomb, michigan Timothy Edward Kunst, frankfort, illinois Matthew Ronald Kurzejka, summa cum laude, Kankakee, 
 illinois Caroline Patricia Kuse, magna cum laude, Brookfield, Wisconsin Amanda Christine Laddish, lee's summit, missouri Andrew Michael Lall, cum laude, saint charles, missouri Andrew W. Lane, fairport, new york Jordan Paul Lange, Zionsville, indiana Anna Catherine Langhenry, naperville, illinois Sarah Lorraine Lattal, new hope, Pennsylvania *Anders Mark Lee, edina, minnesota Hoonjae Lee, cum laude, south Bend, indiana Jay Youl Lee, cum laude, Burlington, north carolina Kihun Lee, Johns creek, Georgia Sharon (Shin Haeng) Lee, seoul, republic of Korea Yun Ji Lee, seoul, republic of Korea John Francis Leemputte, lake forest, illinois John Christian Leniart, Pompano Beach, florida Blanca Lepach-Foncillas, madrid, spain Brendan Michael Lesch, Jr., Westport, connecticut Ngai Yin Alex Leung, hong Kong, hong Kong Victor Matthew LeVasseur, hudson, ohio Danxian Diane Li, magna cum laude, xiamen,  


People's republic of china Kathryn Elizabeth Lill, magna cum laude, Prospect heights,
 illinois Philip Joseph Limbeck, cum laude, victor, new york Hannah Lin, milford, connecticut Hannah Marie Lindman, magna cum laude, east lansing, 
 michigan Elizabeth Mary Linnemanstons, magna cum laude, mequon, 
Wisconsin Kevin Charles Lizanich, Brooklyn, ohio Denver Joe Lobo, mangaf, Kuwait Charles John Logue, south Bend, indiana Megan Jeanne Lohuis, cum laude, morristown, new Jersey Christian G. Lombard, Palatine, illinois Monica Elizabeth Lopez, fort collins, colorado Michael Robert Lucente, cum laude, Gillette, new Jersey Chelsie Jean Luchini, south Bend, indiana Amanda Pham Ly, Grand rapids, michigan Julia Margaret Lynch, cum laude, alpharetta, Georgia Donald Joseph MacDonell, south Bend, indiana Catherine Michele Mahony, cum laude, Wyomissing, 
Pennsylvania Alyssa M. Mandarakas, Glen head, new york John Morgan Maniaci, cum laude, Grosse Pointe, michigan Colleen Elizabeth Mansfield, Pekin, illinois Kayla Brittany Maple, cum laude, concord, massachusetts James Thomas Marlatt, clarksville, maryland Michelle Aileen Marshall, newport Beach, california Robert D. Martin, cum laude, niles, illinois Angelica Martinez, liberty, texas Arturo D. Martinez, miami, florida Mikelle Kristine Masciantonio, center valley, Pennsylvania Robert Luke Massa, cincinnati, ohio David Vincent Mastrovich, coto de caza, california Mary Elizabeth Mathias, saint louis, missouri James William McAllister, cum laude, mansfield, massachusetts Kayla Renae McBride, erie, Pennsylvania James Edward McCaffrey III, cum laude, Pittsburgh,  
Pennsylvania Daniel Lawrence McCarthy, Glen ellyn, illinois John Anthony McConnell IV, charlestown, rhode island Monica McCormack, naperville, illinois 
Matthew Alfred McCurdy, orland Park, illinois David Bradley McCurrie, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Daniel Thomas McDermott, oshkosh, Wisconsin Kyle Edward McDonald, cum laude, auburn, massachusetts Michael Ray McDonald, Granger, indiana Anne Elizabeth McDonough, cum laude, irvine, california Margaret Anne McEnery, tampa, florida Benjamin Joseph McGowan, West Bloomfield, michigan Sean Alan McKelvey, cum laude, hazlet, new Jersey Kirby Lauren McKenna, dublin, ohio Christopher David McKeon, Pleasant Prairie, Wisconsin Daniel Hillenbrand Starkey McMurtrie, richmond, virginia Kelsey Marie McNamara, summa cum laude, elk Grove,  
 california Kara Elizabeth McSweeney, melrose, massachusetts Matthew Robert Menker, magna cum laude, south Bend,  
 indiana Thomas John Meyer, chapel hill, north carolina Michelle Lynn Mezzanotte, cum laude, Kiawah island, 
south carolina Nicolas Josef Michuda, frankfort, illinois Connor Michael Cooney Miller, aurora, illinois Sarah Christine Miller, orchard Park, new york Steven Raymond Miller, columbus, ohio Melanie Anne Mines, cum laude, little rock, arkansas Stephen Michael Mitkus, tinley Park, illinois Shraddha Mittal, tinton falls, new Jersey Ryan Warren Mix, newport Beach, california Elizabeth Ann Molash, dallas, texas Gregory Michael Moore, newton, new Jersey Meghan Elizabeth Moore, charlotte, north carolina Rayven Jovone' Moore, houston, texas Vincent Angelo Moore, Jr., Bloomfield, connecticut Brendan William Moran, chelmsford, massachusetts Rebecca Ann Moriarty, Palatine, illinois *Gregory William Morman, traverse city, michigan Lauren Danielle Morse, huntington Beach, california Kevin Joseph Moyer, fort myers, florida Jacob Joseph Mueller, chicago, illinois John Jacob Mundaden, summa cum laude, lake oswego,  
 oregon *Caroline Anne Mungenast, saint louis, missouri Robert Mungia, san francisco, california Luke Thornton Murphy, montrose, new york Nicole Fagan Murphy, Greenwich, connecticut Ryan Marcus Murphy, commack, new york Caitlin Marie Murray, cum laude, manhattan, illinois Nolan Emmett Murray, magna cum laude, sandusky, ohio Christian P. Myler, Gaylord, michigan Alex B.J. Na, los angeles, california Stephanie Marie O'Keefe Nearhos, medfield, massachusetts Albertus Jacobus Nel, tzaneen, south africa Michael Timothy Nettesheim, summa cum laude, milwaukee, 
Wisconsin Alexandra Marie Newton, magna cum laude, Wilmington, 
 delaware Colton Chieze Ngumoha, memphis, tennessee Patrick Ngoc Hieu Nguyen, owasso, oklahoma Kristina Marie Nhim, Buena Park, california Michael Tyrone Nichols II, Greensboro, north carolina Susan Elizabeth Nichols, Wilmette, illinois Tate Brinkman Nichols, Walton, Kentucky Kyle Scott Nienaber, fort mitchell, Kentucky Lindsay Amber Nishan, Germantown, maryland Kevin Michael Noonan, overland Park, Kansas Horacio Amaru Noriega, south Bend, indiana Mark Daniel Nosek, cum laude, elmhurst, illinois Dylan Charles Nugent, magna cum laude, finksburg, maryland Ann Constance O'Brien, summa cum laude, vienna, virginia Kelly Janeen O'Brien, cum laude, sacramento, california Matthew Patrick O'Brien, la canada, california Patrick Joseph O'Brien, atlanta, Georgia Patrick Robert O'Brien, cum laude, malverne, new york Thomas Jason O'Brien, magna cum laude, Western springs, 


 illinois Liam Thomas O'Connor, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Michael Joseph O'Connor III, Bristol, vermont James Gregory O'Donohue III, hillsborough, new Jersey Stephen James O'Hara, West chester, Pennsylvania Ben Henry O'Neill, magna cum laude, Plano, texas Brian Thomas O'Neill, norwalk, connecticut Thomas Connor O'Sullivan, magna cum laude, Woodridge, 
 illinois *Andrew L. Paisley, West chester, Pennsylvania Chan Hyup Park, seoul, republic of Korea Theresa Marie Parker, cum laude, Jacksonville, florida Clayton Michael Pauls, magna cum laude, overland Park,  
Kansas Catherine Joyce Peck-Phillips, Palm Beach Gardens, florida Justin Thaddeus Pellino, cum laude, Westmont, illinois Rodrigo Jose Perera Bolanos, Guatemala city, Guatemala Carter James Perrin, springfield, illinois James William Peterson, mantorville, minnesota Daniel Kyran Phelan, magna cum laude, hoffman estates,  
 illinois *Tyler Austin Plantz, frankfort, illinois Jason Ronald Popp, cum laude, arlington heights, illinois Laura Catherine Powderly, magna cum laude, saint louis,  
 missouri Lindsay Anne Powell, honeoye falls, new york Concha Marina Prado Giammattei, san salvador, el salvador Margaret Mary Preuss, Granger, indiana Nicholas James Prevete, Garden city, new york Christopher John Prevoznik, mountain lakes, new Jersey Alexander Mayo Priede, cincinnati, ohio Jennifer Michelle Pruitt, summa cum laude, houston, texas Nicolette Christiana Puckett, magna cum laude, Plantation,  
 florida Mary Eileen Pummill, Perrysburg, ohio Cynthia Qian-Zhang, Woodbury, new york Stephen Robert Quintana, cum laude, charlotte,  
north carolina Matthew E. Racine, cum laude, crestwood, illinois Megan M. Raden, Burnsville, minnesota Leonard Anthony Rago, northbrook, illinois Noah Augustine Rangel, tustin, california Patrick Meigs Rauh, elm Grove, Wisconsin Christopher Mark Razzano, audubon, Pennsylvania Nicholas Paul Reineke, valparaiso, indiana Christopher Taylor Reinhart, tampa, florida Sydney Leigh Rickelman, evansville, indiana Chelsea Amanda Ripp, cum laude, Garden city, new york Kyle Thomas Ripp, short hills, new Jersey Nicholas Christian Rischard, dallas, texas Cameron Carnell Roberson, south Bend, indiana Clare Anne Robinson, Wexford, Pennsylvania Peter Andrew Roehmholdt, Williamsville, new york Alexander John Rogalski, Western springs, illinois Joseph Anthony Rogers, marysville, michigan Kevin Michael Rolfs, tower lakes, illinois John Paul Romano, Glencoe, illinois Jacqueline Claire Rose, magna cum laude, northbrook, illinois Michael Nicholas Rossi, White Plains, new york Elaine Raey Rousseau, cincinnati, ohio Soren F. Rucker, cum laude, oakton, virginia David Michael Ruffolo, cum laude, sudbury, massachusetts Bryan Peter Rust, novi, michigan John Joseph Ryan, crystal lake, illinois Meghan Elizabeth Ryan, cum laude, fairfield, connecticut Neil Patrick Ryan, nashville, tennessee Julie Ann Sabacinski, Plantation, florida Cynthia Alexis Salom, miami, florida Alec Gibbons Samolczyk, canton, ohio Christopher Lane Sander, medford, new Jersey Theron John Rughnath Sarda, Palm Beach, florida Brett James Sassetti, elmwood Park, illinois Andrew Thomas Sauerwein, Westfield, new Jersey Mary Katherine Scavo, clarendon hills, illinois Walter Patrick Schafer, centennial, colorado Madeline Erin Schneeman, saint Paul, minnesota Alexander Welty Schoemann, magna cum laude, calgary,  
alberta, canada 
Anne Linnell Schoenwetter, minnetonka, minnesota 
Andrew Michael Schreder, lancaster, Pennsylvania 
Justin A. Schwartz, mahwah, new Jersey 
Annemarie Michel Schwendler, Glenville, new york 
John Leonard Scioscia, summit, new Jersey 
Brian Arthur Scope, cary, north carolina 
Anthony J. Scott, tinley Park, illinois 
Jamie Margaret Segerson, cum laude, dearborn, michigan 
Juan Manuel Segura, mclean, virginia 
Marianna Rimes Seiler, fort lauderdale, florida 
Ronald J. Seman, south Bend, indiana 
Patrick John Shields, Wyomissing, Pennsylvania 
John Francis Siegfried, alexandria, virginia 
Catherine Mary Simonson, ridgefield, connecticut 
Jennifer Anne Simpson, magna cum laude, morrison, colorado 
Maria Elizabeth Skorcz, round lake, illinois 
Katherine Mary Smigelski, cum laude, mequon, Wisconsin 
Allison Marie Smith, mendham, new Jersey 
Brent Richard Smith, summa cum laude, Joliet, illinois 
Casey Allen Smith, Portage, indiana 
Ellen Donoghue Smith, natick, massachusetts 
Morgan Cary Smith, Grand rapids, michigan 
Roberto Daniel Lorenzo Smith, south Bend, indiana 
Ryan Norton Smith, south Bend, indiana 
Jocelyn Ann Snyder, hampton Bays, new york 
Francis Joseph Soler, oyster Bay, new york 
Jason Hyonchul Song, vernon hills, illinois 
Bradley Kate Souryal, magna cum laude, dallas, texas 
Charles Ross Speer, lexington, massachusetts 
John Dixon Stabile, cum laude, leonardtown, maryland 
Jacob Cole Stanton, marshall, missouri 
Matthew Hank Stark, Westmont, illinois 
Meredith Lynn Starrs, cum laude, saint louis, missouri 
Lauren Chandler Stauder, carmel, indiana 


Nicole Suzanne Stelmar, Westlake village, california 
Lauren Stockunas, carlsbad, california 
Mara Alicia Stolee, Golden valley, minnesota 
Lissa Lynne Stolte, san rafael, california 
Laura Elizabeth Straccia, allentown, Pennsylvania 
Andrew Michael Streit, oak Park, illinois 
Donald Robert Strumillo, Jr., Burr ridge, illinois 
Bradley Donald Stuhlreyer, West chester, ohio 
Lauren Patricia Stuhr, huntington Beach, california 
Patrick Joseph Stynes, new york, new york 
Sylvia Suh, Buffalo Grove, illinois 
Rebecca Louise Sulentic, magna cum laude, hoffman estates,   illinois 
Lauren Nicole Sullivan, Winchester, massachusetts 
Patrick Robert Sullivan, franklin, massachusetts 
Steven Michael Summerhays, south Bend, indiana 
Madeline Rose Swain, Granger, indiana 
Joan Kathleen Swanson, houston, texas 
Amanda Elizabeth Sykes, cum laude, coto de caza, california 
Andrew James Tatis, magna cum laude, sunrise, florida 
Courtney Ann Taylor, camarillo, california 
William James Terry, Goleta, california 
M. Parker Adams Teufel, cum laude, lake forest, illinois Caroline Sullivan Thomas, south Bend, indiana Grace Marie Thomas, Wheaton, illinois Matthew Joseph Thomas, doylestown, Pennsylvania David Joseph Thornton, rahway, new Jersey Grant C. Tobin, Port orange, florida Daniela Ivana Tomas, orland Park, illinois Mary Teresa Tomasik, cum laude, arlington heights, illinois Mary Claire Toner, cum laude, Western springs, illinois Sarah Nicole Tonti, magna cum laude, hilliard, ohio Brianne Marie Toole, Westport, connecticut Jack Steven Toscano, magna cum laude, Westerville, ohio Michael Joseph Trak, austin, texas Quan Dinh Tran, spring, texas Charles George Traudt, Whitefish Bay, Wisconsin Tyler Patrick Treuting, Kenner, louisiana Michael J. Trivella, summa cum laude, Berkeley heights, 
new Jersey John Thomas Trunzo, Brookfield, Wisconsin Matthew Ian Tryniecki, saint louis, missouri Tiffany Tsang, Brooklyn, new york Elizabeth Hills Tucker, summa cum laude, Jacksonville, florida Thomas Joseph Tynan, orland Park, illinois Kaitlin Ann Tyrrell, saint Petersburg, florida Elizabeth Joan Van Kula, radnor, Pennsylvania Nicole Marie Vasquez, Boerne, texas *Quintin Lavell Vawters, houston, texas Andrew John Verwilst, niles, michigan Brian Gregory Vogt, magna cum laude, chagrin falls, ohio Michael Peter Voran, livonia, michigan Alyssa Vu, linwood, new Jersey Robert John Wahl, cum laude, lexington, Kentucky Daniel Peter Walsh, cum laude, dublin, ohio Jennifer Anne Walsh, cum laude, fort lauderdale, florida Kathleen Marie Walsh, easton, connecticut Peter Myles Wasik, chicago, illinois Greyson L. Wayer, dana Point, california Aaron James Weber, south Bend, indiana Beatrix Anne Weil, cum laude, lynbrook, new york 
Carolyn Anne Weinschenk, magna cum laude, Belle mead, new Jersey 
Grace Welte, maysville, Kentucky 
Robert William Weltner, summa cum laude, Green Brook,  new Jersey 
Michelle Kathleen Werner, lombard, illinois 
Joseph Francis Whalen, Joliet, illinois 
Johnny Vincent Whichard, coto de caza, california 
F. Quinn White, havertown, Pennsylvania Peter Brennan White, devon, Pennsylvania Kevin Michael Wildey, comstock Park, michigan Elizabeth Lee Wilson, Kansas city, missouri Jaclyn Linda Winkel, magna cum laude, reno, nevada Laura Jean Winter, san diego, california Thomas Joseph Wintering, aurora, ohio Sean Patrick Wolohan, saginaw, michigan Peter Keon Woo, summa cum laude, tenafly, new Jersey David Alexander Wood, cum laude, lancaster, Pennsylvania Sean William Woods, olympia fields, illinois Jacob Morrow Wrigley, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Diana Xu, naperville, illinois Dolly Ye, cum laude, Peoria, illinois Daniel Johnathan Yi, Bakersfield, california Jie Yu, magna cum laude, shanghai, People's republic of china Ruoxuan Yuan, magna cum laude, nanjing, 
People's republic of china 
Aaron Patrick Zeese, Granger, indiana 
Beiming Zhang, taizhou, Zhejiang Province,  People's republic of china 
*Nicole Jen Zhang, calgary, alberta, canada 
Yutong Zhang, summa cum laude, Beijing,  
People's republic of china Adriana Alyssa Zurbano, downers Grove, illinois 
*Participating with his/her class #Graduating with senior Thesis 



the deGree OF BaChelOr OF arChiteCture ON: 

Degree awarded January 05, 2014 
Isabel Cecilia García de Paredes de la Guardia, vero Beach,  florida 
Candidates for degree May 18, 2014 
María Isabel Balda Moncayo, Guayaquil, ecuador Caitlin Marie Baransky, summa cum laude, northport,  
new york Margaret Elizabeth Barrett, littleton, colorado Sara Mattingly Bega, marietta, Georgia Keaton Glenn Bloom, magna cum laude, south Bend, indiana Alissa Christine Bozza, arlington heights, illinois Patrick Michael Brunner, fort Wayne, indiana Alison Elizabeth Collins, Granger, indiana Matthew David Cook, cum laude, Burr ridge, illinois Nicole Anne Creehan, lynchburg, virginia Karen Guerzon Delgado, magna cum laude, subic, Philippines Stephanie De Luna, san antonio, texas Marc Jacob De Santis, dallas, texas Stephanie Melissa Escobar Ferruzo, san fernando valley,  
 california Lucia Fernandez Navarro, la Paz, Bolivia Jennifer Anne Fitzpatrick, riverside, connecticut Kelly Janine Gilmour, magna cum laude, sewickley, Pennsylvania Nathaniel William Thomas Gotcher, franklin, Wisconsin Christine Gregory, Plantation, florida Madison Margaret Hagen, sierra madre, california Maria Lyn Harmon, dublin, ohio David Lyman Kalanilehua Hayes, honolulu, hawaii Yukiko Inoue, san Jose, costa rica 
Ha Min Joo, magna cum laude, seoul, republic of Korea Alex Douglas Marsh, Granger, indiana Maricruz Menchero-Fernandez, cum laude, san antonio, texas María Carolina Mendy, cum laude, santo domingo, 
dominican republic Katherine Joan Newhart, oak lawn, illinois Jacqueline Paige Oberlander, des moines, iowa Timothy Ryan O'Hara, cum laude, troy, michigan Kathryn Elizabeth Ossing, catonsville, maryland Delma A. Palma, Bonita springs, florida Colin William Thomson Patience, apple valley, minnesota Jesús Javier Pérez, covina, california Megan Louise Poloskey, austin, texas Erika Marie Rahming, nassau, Bahamas Megan Elizabeth Reineccius, cum laude, eagan, minnesota Erica Brynn Ridlon, virginia Beach, virginia Catherine Marie Rivera, Bloomingdale, illinois Michelle Alexa Russoniello, new vernon, new Jersey Daniel Brian Sacco, magna cum laude, fairfield, connecticut Roger James Sammon, schererville, indiana Mark Peter Santrach, summa cum laude, north oaks, 
 minnesota Michael Preston Scott, cum laude, louisville, Kentucky Joshua Thomas Shambaugh, cum laude, Bakersfield,  
 california Taylor Pfarr Stein, hilliard, ohio Christopher John Sylva, sacramento, california caitlin marie Baransky ha min Joo William earl miller Julia Patrice concelman michael ryan macGillivray mark Peter santrach Kevin andrew diPasquale rebecca marie marton elizabeth hills tucker marielle domenique hampe Joseph Thomas mcGillicuddy robert William Weltner turner austin harty Jane elizabeth mcGuinness 



Geraldine a. ameriks, Associate Professional Specialist of Romance Languages and Literatures 
h. Gordon Berry, Professor of Physics howard a. Blackstead, Professor of Physics *douglas e. Bradley, Professional  Specialist, Snite Museum angie r. chamblee, Associate Professional Specialist, First Year of Studies daniel m. chipman, Professional  Specialist, Radiation Laboratory Kenneth J. deBoer, Associate Professional 
Specialist, First Year of Studies robert P. flood, Jr., Professor of Economics dolores W. frese, Professor of English John a. halloran, Associate Professor of  
Finance montey G. holloway, Professional  Specialist of Philosophy 

Paul G. Johnson, Associate Professor of  Music 
Joyce v. Johnstone, Professional Specialist, Alliance for Catholic Education 
James J. Kolata, Professor of Physics 
viktor Krchnak, Research Professor of  Chemistry and Biochemistry 
George a. lopez, Professor of Political  Science 
Joseph P. marino, Professor of Chemistry and Biochemistry 
akio mori, Research Associate Professor of Biological Sciences 
robert c. nelson, Professor of Aerospace  and Mechanical Engineering 
Kathleen a. Peterson, Associate  Professional Specialist of Chemistry and Biochemistry 
Kathleen a. Pyne, Professor of Art, Art History, and Design 
robert e. rodes, Jr., Professor of Law 
charles m. rosenberg, Professor of Art,  Art History, and Design 
shafa saddawi, Professional Specialist of  Physics 
Kenneth m. sayre, Professor of  Philosophy 
linda a. sharp, Associate Librarian,  Hesburgh Libraries 
marina B. smyth, Librarian, Hesburgh  Libraries 
James c. turner, Professor of History 
eugene c. ulrich, Professor of Theology 
Thomas a. Werge, Professor of English 
martin h. Wolfson, Associate Professor,  College of Arts and Letters 
*Deceased 


  iN the COlleGe OF arts aNd letters, the FOllOWiNG Were eleCted tO memBershiP iN the NatiONal sOCiOlOGy hONOr sOCiety OF the ePsilON ChaPter OF alPha kaPPa delta: 
rebecca devun areaux  erin marie Jenkins  margaret Gabriella Pickard  
caitlin elizabeth Bobber  il-Jee Kam  annie cecilia marie rhodes  
olevia danielle mae Boykin  abigail Joan rockne Kostielney  aaron michael sant-miller  
edithstein cho  caitlin elaine lackner  anne linnell schoenwetter  
Kelsie v. corriston  Katherine marie lanser  Katherine marie spencer  
Kathleen meghan dollard  adam stephen laPlaca  madeline frances swan  
danielle malia Gies  Kathryn elizabeth lill  hollyn spencer trudell  
carolyn marie haller  colleen marie madden  Karyn terese vilbig  
carissa sue henke  Thomas alexander mann, Jr.  eric andrew Whittington 
eliza Jane herrero  michelle cristina mowry  


  iN the COlleGe OF arts aNd letters, the FOllOWiNG Were eleCted tO memBershiP iN the GermaN laNGuaGe hONOr sOCiety OF delta Phi alPha: 
daniel matthew Brach allison magdalena hartnett sydney leigh rickelman rachael catherine leatavalavala Glenister erin e. hattler Peter andrew roehmholdt leo mcKeever hall marcus Ward liddell matthew david uber 



iN the COlleGe OF arts aNd letters, the FOllOWiNG Were eleCted tO memBershiP iN the aCademiC hONOr sOCiety OF Gamma kaPPa alPha: 
amanda Jill Bambury Paul Justin Barron natalie Kathleen Boll maegan Kathleen Boucher marissa Kathryn Bulso ninabeth Jamora cabahug aaron Thomas calton matthew david cook Kelsie v. corriston James david cotton luisa michelle de los santos ricardo ernesto duarte Bodewig Kaitlyn nicole egan amber Grace Galik andrew octavio Gastelum Thomas K. Graff cristina Gutiérrez Köng alfredo antonio Guzman-dominguez Kimberly e. halstead michael andrew hever Justin Gregory hish isabel izurieta natia ann Jonas lily marie marino melissa Guadalupe cabello medina mark daniel mirabella Joseph augustine monardo eliza marie nagle Jennifer lynn Perugini mary Therese Prokop martino rabaioli erica Brynn ridlon maria elizabeth skorcz christopher sawyer smith claire elizabeth spears hannah Kathleen turgeon michael Thomas vangel ii Peter myles Wasik Thomas Joseph White iv alexander christopher yaney xiaoyi Zhang 


  iN the COlleGe OF arts aNd letters, the FOllOWiNG Were eleCted tO memBershiP iN the GeNder studies PrOGram hONOr sOCiety OF alPha Phi ChaPter OF iOta iOta iOta: 
christina mary elisabeth dines natalie margaret Perez Zoe nadine Jimenez molly ann shank 


  iN the COlleGe OF arts aNd letters, the FOllOWiNG Were eleCted tO memBershiP iN the aNthrOPOlOGy hONOr sOCiety OF lamBda alPha: 
morgan Kay Benson lisa marie carlson catherine Jeanne cichon Kaitlyn elizabeth davis margaret christine duffy hayley nicole evans John Bernard favorite Jenny ann fucillo Katy Jo Gorentz carolyn marie haller melissa Kristine hallihan erin e. hattler mary catherine holt Jaehyun teresa Jung nicole anne madrilejo Kathryn Buck marshall sarah faith mcGough caroline anne merriam mary murgia musilek shelby lynn niemann Jessica laura Peek iris havlina donovan Petersen elizabeth anne Pickle hope amiri rosenfeld Kathleen marie ryan Patrick samuel salemme lauren michelle schmitt debra marie smetana clayton Patrick smith marianinna villavicencio 


  iN the COlleGe OF arts aNd letters, the FOllOWiNG Were eleCted tO memBershiP iN the eCONOmiC hONOr sOCiety OF OmiCrON delta ePsilON: 
morgan Kay Benson  elizabeth Patrice helpling  James fitzsimmons Powers iii  
nicholas William Blashill  meredith ann holland  Joseph michael ragukonis  
Joseph raphael cammarosano iii  scott urban Jackson  christopher mark razzano  
andrew liang champeau  michael stephen Johnson  mary clare rigali  
elena margaret devoe  maura elaine Jones  alexander John rogalski  
robert Philip dorman  Jaehyun teresa Jung  alec Gibbons samolczyk  
conor Patrick durkin  Joshua malloy Junge  James andrew schappler  
allison eleanor fachetti  Jacob Gregory Kaminski  Kevin Joseph stewart  
Jonathan faubert lópez-velasco  douglas alan Kyrouac  Brett robert ubl  
maria anne fotsch  Patrick daniel laskowski  christopher Kevin vanderschans  
stephen matthew fox  stephanie ann lobaccaro  margaret sullivan Walsh  
nicole lynn Gantz  alec michael macdonell  margaret ann Wieland  
tyler russell harmsen  Thomas connor o'sullivan  



  iN the COlleGe OF arts aNd letters, the FOllOWiNG Were eleCted tO memBershiP iN the NatiONal histOry hONOr sOCiety OF Phi alPha theta: 
Joshua P. Bathon John xavier Bernard daniel Joseph Brombach Brenna corinne carlson John david carlson daniel lee colston John michael cotter mia lisa marguerite counts Kaitlin ryan demchuk Kimberly marie dumais colin Patrick Geils Jeffrey raymond Gerlomes, Jr. ryan Joseph Gerspach edward connor Gibbons madeline rose Gillen regina margaret Gilmour travis Perkins hart robert Thomas hess helen Kathleen howard victoria robbins Jacobsen david J. Kenney timothy James Kenney alexander miranda Killen sean langan Kathryn Buck marshall daniel Thomas mcdermott eileen margaret mclaughlin erin elizabeth mcmannon Paul lorenz menke leo alexander mironovich matthew John henry niendorf anthony John oleck Justin mulligan orr Grace alice Paz matthew e. racine isaiah Jude rhodes lauren elizabeth richards Thomas Joseph roman ii teresa maureen rubinger david Warren smith Kathryn elizabeth squiers mary claire toner 


iN the COlleGe OF arts aNd letters aNd the COlleGe OF sCieNCe, the FOllOWiNG Were  eleCted tO memBershiP iN the aCademiC hONOr sOCiety OF Phi Beta kaPPa: 
margaret mary adema  John Thomas hunt iii  adam James newman  
William Gregory Barth  daniel reid irvine  hali Quynh nguyen  
taylor marie Boland  madeline P. Jarrett  Patricia marie o'connell  
natalie Kathleen Boll  Jaehyun teresa Jung  caitlin elizabeth ogren  
John henry Brems  christine marie Junga  megan clare olson  
daniel Joseph Brombach  rachel morgan Kalinoski  Justin mulligan orr  
marissa Kathryn Bulso  deanna alexandra Kolberg  michelle Paek  
aubrey leigh Butts  maria Kipp Kosse  luke William Pardue  
edithstein cho  Jessica rose Kusina  andrew Peabody  
alexander felice coccia  caitlin elaine lackner  alysia catherine Phillips  
matthew christopher cole  sean langan  mary Therese Prokop  
christian leo coppa  ashley victoria Gianna lawrence  caroline elizabeth ramsey  
Kelsie v. corriston  david Thomas lee  annie cecilia marie rhodes  
Patrick Joseph cruitt  elizabeth claire leonard  isaiah Jude rhodes  
Peter michael mason cummings  Thomas Gregory lienhoop  tyler christian richards  
molly Kathryn daily  alec michael macdonell  victoria marie roeck  
Kathleen meghan dollard  michael ryan macGillivray  aaron michael sant-miller  
samuel P. evola  John Patrick macke  Jessica lynn Binder schaefer  
Patrick Jordan fagan  alyssa sonia mall  Jonathan stanley sheperd  
Kaitlyn rose farrell  andrew Guy mancini  emily anne siebert  
mitchell mahoney faulk  rebecca marie marton  douglas William spelder  
sabina ranette fischer  anne marie mccarthy  Kathryn elizabeth squiers  
anna catherine fish  Joseph Thomas mcGillicuddy  christopher michael steiner  
stephen matthew fox  sarah faith mcGough  susan maureen sullivan  
michael Jack franczak  Thomas Joseph mcGuire  lisa marie taylor  
Katherine m. Gordon  monica Pearl mcnerney  carolyn elizabeth turek  
teresa anne Gorman  richard anthony meena  Brett robert ubl  
Kelley anne Gregg  mark Philip metzinger  Kaitlin Jane vanderKolk  
alfredo antonio Guzman-dominguez  William earl miller  christopher Kevin vanderschans  
marielle domenique hampe  ryan Patrick moss  regina marie Wood  
matthew taylor harbrecht  michelle cristina mowry  charles cong yang xu  
Brendan Thomas heiden  mary murgia musilek  alexander christopher yaney  
abigail Jane marie hoverman  sara annette mykrantz  stephen Joseph Zerfas  
iona marie hughan  ansel Peter nalin  




iN the COlleGe OF arts aNd letters, the FOllOWiNG Were eleCted tO memBershiP iN the aCademiC hONOr sOCiety OF Pi delta Phi: 
amanda Jill Bambury Kathryn sabyl Barousse alexandra elizabeth Below anne marie Blieszner natalie Kathleen Boll matthew nolan collins steven richard froelich Kerry capen hunt vincent Jauneau Jaehyun teresa Jung emily elizabeth lohr michelle lynn luna Jennifer marie martynowicz melissa Guadalupe cabello medina sophia talbot melone leo alexander mironovich michelle cristina mowry claire Therese reising annie cecilia marie rhodes lindsey Jean sansone alexandra renée searle sylvia seokhee yong 


  iN the COlleGe OF arts aNd letters, the FOllOWiNG Were eleCted tO memBershiP iN the NatiONal POlitiCal sCieNCe hONOr sOCiety OF Pi siGma alPha: 
elizabeth maureen argue courtney yun Biscan olevia danielle mae Boykin erich alexander Bruhn samantha anne caesar megan Peters cahill lindsay virginia dun conor Patrick durkin michael francis falvey sabina ranette fischer Katherine m. Gordon Patrick michael Grimmer abigail Jane marie hoverman deanna alexandra Kolberg Thomas Joseph mcGuire erin elizabeth mcmannon William earl miller sara annette mykrantz samantha ellyn nordlund John alexander Pepelnjak stephen anthony rehagen Thomas Joseph roman ii dominic Joseph romeo James andrew schappler emily anne siebert Brett robert ubl mara claire Walsh 


  iN the COlleGe OF arts aNd letters, the FOllOWiNG Were eleCted tO memBershiP iN the NatiONal PsyChOlOGy hONOr sOCiety OF Psi Chi: 
Jill margaret Briody amanda Brooke Bruening Patrick Joseph cruitt Kaitlyn nicole egan Katherine maria ferrello michael Jack franczak Kelley anne Gregg olivia marie Gutgsell casey Joy miller hall matthew taylor harbrecht Kinsey rebecca hoffman mary catherine holt Kelsey rose howard madeline P. Jarrett samuel hayden Jones sara noreen Jones rachel morgan Kalinoski caroline Patricia Kuse adam stephen laPlaca ashley victoria Gianna lawrence michelle lynn luna alyssa sonia mall Whitney elizabeth mcWherter sophia talbot melone christina frances mondi andrea maria rabassa Jacqueline claire rose Jamie margaret segerson troy matthew suter alexandra marie Thiel caroline marie Thompson victoria lynne tokarski carolyn elizabeth turek nicole marie villa Julianne Zemaitis 


iN the COlleGe OF arts aNd letters, the FOllOWiNG Were eleCted tO memBershiP iN the aCademiC hONOr sOCiety OF siGma delta Pi: 
taylor marie Boland  Patrick michael Grimmer  Kathleen marie raskob  
maegan Kathleen Boucher  Brandon reid hall  tyler christian richards  
lucas martin cespedes  rachel rose hamilton  caroline andrea ruhland  
Grace michele chiarella  victoria catherine Kay  Jennifer anne simpson  
molly Kathryn daily  carolyn ann Keefe  Katherine mary smigelski  
conor mcfadden dorgan  sarah ann Kennedy  Jennifer lee szotek  
samuel P. evola  angelique christine laboy-coparropa  victoria lynne tokarski  
danielle elyse fasani  hannah marie lindman  tracy ann vandeWater  
andrea leigh finger  Jennifer catherine loconsole  nicole marie villa  
danielle malia Gies  Thomas alexander mann, Jr.  megan lynn yanik  
Bernard francis Gray iii  richard anthony meena  
Kelley anne Gregg  Paul edward mickan  




  iN the COlleGe OF arts aNd letters, the FOllOWiNG Were eleCted tO memBershiP iN the iNterNatiONal eNGlish hONOr sOCiety OF siGma tau delta: 
catherine elizabeth ake anne marie Blieszner taylor catherine Byrnes sarah margaret cahalan Quentin Thomas collie casey anne connolly samuel P. evola maria Beverly fahs Kaitlyn rose farrell Katherine nicole fusco regina margaret Gilmour marielle domenique hampe caitlin marie Johnson sian elizabeth Kresse angela marie lake alyssa m. mandarakas sara elizabeth mcGuirk shelby lynn niemann chelsea marie Palmer Will frawley Peterson mary Therese Prokop Katherine anne Puszka caroline andrea ruhland Patrick Joseph schmitz molly ann shank claire elizabeth spears margaret ann Wieland 


  iN the COlleGe OF arts aNd letters, the FOllOWiNG Were eleCted tO memBershiP iN the aFriCaNa studies hONOr sOCiety OF sOCietas aFriCaNa: 
morgan Kay Benson amanda Jeanne Krauss mary murgia musilek alexander felice coccia adam Berchman llorens colton chieze ngumoha 

  iN the COlleGe OF sCieNCe, the FOllOWiNG Were eleCted tO memBershiP iN the NatiONal PhysiCs hONOr sOCiety OF siGma Pi siGma: 
vincent christian Burns Patrick Joseph marino christopher michael steiner rachael ann creager Kyle matthew mccall christopher adam torres Kaitlin ryan demchuk Patrick devins mooney Bihan Zhu david Paul fleming neal Giri ravindra anthony James lefeld michael nicholas robbe 

  iN the COlleGe OF eNGiNeeriNG, the FOllOWiNG Were eleCted tO memBershiP  iN the NatiONal CiVil eNGiNeeriNG hONOr sOCiety OF Chi ePsilON: 
elizabeth anne andruszkiewicz Kevin david fink erik loren Jensen maria anita Krug lauren august ladowski Jennifer catherine loconsole chase timothy mlnarik emily erin coats Palmer William James raseman John Patrick reilly daniel Joseph rish caleigh morgan ruether claire anne sieradzki Kevin Joseph stewart Paul edward Wojtal Kun hee yi ethan lee Zartman 


  iN the COlleGe OF eNGiNeeriNG, the FOllOWiNG Were eleCted tO memBershiP iN the aCademiC hONOr sOCiety OF eta kaPPa Nu: 
sarah elaine divel elizabeth rose huschke John Patrick o'Brien lindsey Johanna forsberg Kevin seamus mcGinn Joshua steven vahala Kelsey ann han Jane elizabeth mcGuinness Justin dean yoder 



  iN the COlleGe OF eNGiNeeriNG, the FOllOWiNG Were eleCted tO memBershiP iN the aCademiC hONOr sOCiety OF Pi tau siGma: 
Kurt edward Beatty Jessica michelle Balash lencioni Joseph matthew rudy christopher donald cheney Brandon Kekoa low martin Walker singer Julia Patrice concelman Patrick Joseph marino andrew scott Willenborg courtney marie cosgrove colby austin meyer maximilian luke Geraci colleen frances reidy 

  iN the COlleGe OF eNGiNeeriNG, the FOllOWiNG Were eleCted tO memBershiP iN the aCademiC hONOr sOCiety OF siGma Gamma tau: 
Jordan scott hoover Patrick Kough mcfarlane ryan James vandecasteele Peter d. horton mark roman Paluta daniel Joseph yerkes murphy Patrick lester Brian Kevin Quinn 

  iN the COlleGe OF eNGiNeeriNG, the FOllOWiNG Were eleCted tO memBershiP iN the aCademiC hONOr sOCiety OF tau Beta Pi: 
Justin matthew Bartlett  Jordan scott hoover  mark roman Paluta  
tyler adam Bartlow  amanda marie horst  truong n. Pham  
Kurt edward Beatty  elizabeth rose huschke  Brian Kevin Quinn  
calvin anthony Belden  claire Kathleen Kozak  John Patrick Quinn  
christopher donald cheney  Wilm Gerhard Kranz  William James raseman  
michael J. comuniello  anthony lawrence Krenselewski  Patrick Thomas raycroft  
Julia Patrice concelman  lauren august ladowski  laura riedl reinke  
maureen elizabeth connelly  Jessica michelle Balash lencioni  logan Joshua renwick  
courtney marie cosgrove  murphy Patrick lester  daniel Joseph rish  
sarah elizabeth cressman  Brandon Kekoa low  Joseph matthew rudy  
sara Kamali'i yuriko dale  Patrick Joseph marino  Kelsey megan ryan  
sarah elaine divel  Patrick Kough mcfarlane  timothy daniel siegler  
Brandon James dunham  Kevin seamus mcGinn  martin Walker singer  
maximilian luke Geraci  Jane elizabeth mcGuinness  erica michelle smith  
taryn marie Green  monica Pearl mcnerney  samuel isaac tarín  
christopher Joseph Groce  casey Thomas morris  diana michelle vega Pantoja  
Kelsey ann han  John Patrick o'Brien  andrew scott Willenborg 
andrew Karl heldrich  caitlin Patricia o'connell  



  iN the COlleGe OF eNGiNeeriNG, the FOllOWiNG Were eleCted tO memBershiP iN the aCademiC hONOr sOCiety OF uPsilON Pi ePsilON: 
Justin matthew Bartlett charles s. Jhin Kevin matthew sonnen christine marie Gerardi Kevin seamus mcGinn nicholas John taylor taryn marie Green John Patrick Quinn robert christopher Wirthman christopher Joseph Groce Patrick Thomas raycroft 

  iN the COlleGe OF BusiNess, the FOllOWiNG Were eleCted tO memBershiP iN the aCademiC hONOr sOCiety OF Beta alPha Psi: 
daniel alex aponte  emily Grace Kopetsky  sarah catherine smith  
emily moira arjani  miles Thomas Korth  John dixon stabile  
mary christine astuno  lauren anne Krumdick  mairin elizabeth talerico  
Kristen Grace Bachteler  alison marie leon  Paulina lind tiu tan  
Katherine elizabeth Bass  danxian diane li  xinjie tang  
eric John Biro  Philip Joseph limbeck  Pangxin tao  
hannah lee Bliss  hannah lin  mary teresa tomasik  
carl robert Brinker  lan lin  mary claire toner  
Brian Patrick campbell  yiwen lin  Jack steven toscano  
Justin daniel campbell  hannah marie lindman  tyler Patrick treuting  
Katherine tracy carter  matthew stephen lynch  michael J. trivella  
Paula marie casini  John morgan maniaci  elizabeth hills tucker  
nicole tyler christiano  Kelsey marie mcnamara  mary Katherine valdivia  
sarah elizabeth crippin  matthew francis mullaney  nicole marie vasquez  
Ziniu dai  John Jacob mundaden  lauren ashley Walaszczyk  
andrew don dePalma  luke Thornton murphy  Patricia anne Walsh  
frank rocco diZenzo, Jr.  nolan emmett murray  di Wang  
Jenna Prescott Gagen  Jason ronald Popp  robert William Weltner  
vernon darryl Gair, Jr.  laura catherine Powderly  david alexander Wood  
ian christopher Gaule  Kevin andrew Pribil  Jiamin Wu  
colin Patrick Geils  Jennifer michelle Pruitt  Jinshan xu  
erica lynn heissler  Peter andrew roehmholdt  yutong Zhang  
hyun Jee hong  meghan elizabeth ryan  tong Zhao  
chenxi huang  alexander Welty schoemann  xiaoying angie Zhao  
ashlee lauren hunt  xin shen  ying Zhou  
James albert Jennings  meghan shevlin  alysha marie Zimmerman 
michael ortega Klingshirn  Jennifer anne simpson  
Katherine elizabeth Knapp  Brent richard smith  



  iN the COlleGe OF BusiNess, the FOllOWiNG Were eleCted tO memBershiP iN the aCademiC hONOr sOCiety OF Beta Gamma siGma: 
ilgiz vasilovich akhmetshin alexandru aleman Gregory scott andrews emily moira arjani aaron laird Backman tyler adam Bartlow robert W. Besio tyler richard Bliha douglas John Boyd david a. Boyle 
h. Thomas Wren Briggs michael logan Britt meredith lynne Bronk Kristine s. Brothers erich alexander Bruhn eric anthony Brumleve emma elizabeth Buckley Joseph raphael cammarosano iii eric ryan ciura Brennan K. clark christopher stephan conley Kirsten Jane conrath John michael cotter sarah elizabeth crippin michael lawrence didonna matthew dolgin allison eleanor fachetti Kathy Peichi fan sean michael farnan Jonathan faubert lópez-velasco steven albert feczko ryan Joseph fish sean ryan fitzgerald Joshua michael fitzgibbon ruowei fu ivan Gantar nicole lynn Gantz Prateek Garg elizabeth mary Garvin Burak Gundogdu Philip hague Brandon reid hall turner austin harty eric Jon hauer michael Bruce heath, Jr. nicholas Brian herold Brian Patrick higgins dominique michelle higgins shelby renee hood laura Joan Janulewicz michael Brendan Joyce Jennifer elizabeth Kellner timothy steven Kish Brent allen Kitts John f. Kloecker Katherine elizabeth Knapp mackenzie Grace Kraft Joseph John Kunst matthew ronald Kurzejka Zachary adam Kustok June yoonjung lee Joseph manica Jeremy morris mason Jeremy craig mattox Kelsey marie mcnamara Patrick robert o'Brien Kyle vijay Patel clayton michael Pauls Jennifer michelle Pruitt harold treynor ray iv daniel dominick rousseve hipolito sanchez iii matthew o. schad William ranck schwartz david luke screnar Brent richard smith Joseph allen st. amant yunfei sun travis edward vanderloon robert William Weltner Patrick michael Wolohan Peter Keon Woo Jeffrey allan Wyatt yao xie Kevin John Zimmerman John William Ziss, Jr. 


  iN the sChOOl OF arChiteCture, the FOllOWiNG Were eleCted tO memBershiP iN the aCademiC hONOr sOCiety OF tau siGma delta: 
caitlin marie Baransky Kelly Janine Gilmour daniel Brian sacco Keaton Glenn Bloom ha min Joo mark Peter santrach matthew david cook timothy ryan o'hara Karen Guerzon delgado megan elizabeth reineccius 




teachinG aWards 
the reVereNd edmuNd P. jOyCe, C.s.C. aWard FOr exCelleNCe iN  uNderGraduate teaChiNG 
Honors faculty members who have had a profound influence on undergraduate students through sustained exemplary teaching 
carl B. ackermann, Finance 
Brian m. Baker, Chemistry and Biochemistry 
christine a. Becker, Film, Television, and Theatre 
steven J. Brady, First Year of Studies/History 
mark a. caprio, Physics 
Patrick J. clauss, University Writing Program 
Kristen collette-schmitt, Finance 
Giles e. duffield, Biological Sciences 
david W. Gasperetti, German and Russian Languages and  Literatures 
dawn m. Gondoli, Psychology 
Patrick n. Griffin, History 
sara l. maurer, English 
Joyelle mcsweeney, English 
michael t. niemier, Computer Science and Engineering 
Kathleen a. Peterson, Chemistry and Biochemistry 
susan h. rosato, Political Science 
siiri s. scott, Film, Television, and Theatre 
Thomas a. stapleford, Program of Liberal Studies 
stephan a. stolz, Mathematics 
alexandros a. taflanidis, Civil and Environmental Engineering  and Earth Sciences 
michelle a. Whaley, Biological Sciences 

  iN the uNiVersity 
dockweiler award for excellence in undergraduate advising 
Recognizes faculty and staff who have demonstrated a sustained commitment to Notre Dame undergraduates through outstanding mentoring, academic advising or career counseling services daniel a. Graff, History alison K. levey, Dean's Office, Mendoza College of Business Priscilla W. Wong, Campus Ministry 
Frank O’malley award 
Presented to a faculty member who exhibits the ideals of Frank O’Malley by demonstrating a commitment to excellence in undergraduate teaching christopher l. stevens, Adjunct Instructor of Management 

  laW sChOOl    
Notre dame law school distinguished Faculty award 
randy J. Kozel, Associate Professor of Law 

COlleGe OF arts aNd letters    
Charles e. sheedy award for excellence in teaching 
John sitter, Professor of Literature 

COlleGe OF sCieNCe    
shilts-leonard teaching award 
michael douglas hildreth, Professor of Physics 

COlleGe OF eNGiNeeriNG 
Outstanding teacher of the year award 
Joseph michael Powers, Professor of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering 


  meNdOza COlleGe OF BusiNess   
leo Burke Outstanding teacher award 
Phillip e. raskin, Adjunct Professor of Marketing 
james dincolo Outstanding teacher award 
frank Germann, Assistant Professor of Marketing lin hao, Assistant Professor of Management James a. o'Brien, Professional Specialist of Accountancy 
d. Katherine spiess, Associate Professor of Finance 
arnie ludwig Outstanding teacher award 
Jeffrey s. miller, Associate Professor of Accountancy 
master of Business administration Outstanding teacher award 
viva o. Bartkus, Associate Professor of Management 
master of Nonprofit administration Outstanding teacher award 
Jeffrey v. Bialik, Adjunct Instructor of Management 
master of science in accountancy dincolo Outstanding Professor award 
James l. Wittenbach, Professor of Accountancy 
master of science in Business Outstanding Professor award 
John G. michel, Associate Professional Specialist of Management 
the Blessed Basil anthony moreau, C.s.C. Outstanding undergraduate teaching award 
christopher l. stevens, Adjunct Instructor of Management 




national aWards 
american heart association Predoctoral Fellowship 
Jordan leslie scott, Oakville, California Katherine elizabeth Ward, Arkadelphia, Arkansas 
american institute of Chemists award 
monica Pearl mcnerney, Pembroke Pines, Florida 
american Psychological Foundation (aPa) / Council of Graduate departments of Psychology (COGdOP) Graduate research scholarship 
ann catherine Johnson, Defiance, Iowa 
O.h. ammann research Fellowship award, american society of Civil engineers 
teng Wu, Hunan, People's Republic of China 
Chemistry-Biochemistry-Biology interface (CBBi) Fellowship 
richard charles Kurker, East Hartford, Connecticut Jordan leslie scott, Oakville, California Katherine elizabeth Ward, Arkadelphia, Arkansas 
the Classical association of the middle West and south (CamWs) award 
mattimore cronin, Pacific Palisades, California 
environmental Protection agency (ePa) science to achieve results (star) Graduate Fellowship 
Justin Paul farrell, Omaha, Nebraska 
Fulbright award 
anne Barbara mcGinness, Shaker Heights, Ohio 
Bill and melinda Gates Foundation scholarship 
Geoffrey henry siwo, Kisumu, Kenya 
GlOBes integrative Graduate education, research, and traineeship Grant (iGert) from the National science Foundation (NsF) 
ashley Kate Baldridge, Houghton, Michigan matthew Barnes, Plano, Texas James Wainwright clancy, San Diego, California nolan James corry locke noble, Fullerton, California Patrick douglas shirey, Sarver, Pennsylvania sheina Biason sim, Norwalk, California 
Guggenheim dissertation Fellowship 
francisco Javier osorio Zago, Puebla, Mexico 
iBm Ph.d. Fellowship award 
Geoffrey henry siwo, Kisumu, Kenya 
indiana Clinical and translational sciences institute (i-Ctsi) Predoctoral training Fellowship in translational research 
James Wainwright clancy, San Diego, California christine marie steeger, Colorado Springs, Colorado 
ruth l. kirschstein National research service award (Nrsa) Predoctoral training Grant (National institutes of health) 
Kerry mina Bauer, Roseville, Minnesota christine marie steeger, Colorado Springs, Colorado 
lindau Fellow 
James Wainwright clancy, San Diego, California 
louisville institute dissertation Fellowship 
Justin Paul farrell, Omaha, Nebraska 
the Billy maich academy of american Poets award 
Jayme christine russell, Athens, Ohio 
the George C. marshall award  
To the senior Army cadet officer for excellence in leadership sabina ranette fischer, Germantown, Wisconsin 
mellon/american Council of learned societies dissertation Completion Fellowship 
Patrick david mello, Chico, California 
National defense science and engineering Graduate Fellowship 
Jonathan c. silver, Newtown, Connecticut 
National Park service George melendez Wright Climate Change Fellowship (2012) 
Patrick douglas shirey, Sarver, Pennsylvania 
National Physical science Consortium Fellowship 
dirk van Bruggen, Allegan, Michigan 
National science Foundation dissertation improvement Grant 
austin david choi-fitzpatrick, Aloha, Oregon 
National science Foundation Graduate research Fellowship 
caroline elizabeth Byrd, Charlotte, North Carolina Keshia mae Kuhn, Omaha, Arkansas daniel Payton mcinnis, Bloomington, Minnesota clara elizabeth seaman, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma teng Wu, Hunan, People's Republic of China 
National science Foundation Graduate stem Fellowship in k-12 education 
francis J. raycroft, Whitestown, Indiana 
National science Foundation Graduate teaching  Fellowship for Grades k-12 
douglas ryan Berry, Midland, Michigan francis J. raycroft, Whitestown, Indiana 
social sciences and humanities research Council (sshrC) doctoral Fellowship (Canada) 
sara michelle fulmer, Waterdown, Ontario, Canada 


Nicholas sparks award max Weber Postdoctoral Fellowship, european emily Grecki, Bayside, New York university institute 
anne Barbara mcGinness, Shaker Heights, Ohio tau Beta Pi - spencer Fellowship Jonathan c. silver, Newtown, Connecticut 

activity and service aWards 
Carlos aballi award in hispanic Cultural awareness 
To the senior who has studied Spanish at Notre Dame, demonstrated pride in their Hispanic culture, and given significant service to the Hispanic community lucas martin cespedes, South Bend, Indiana 
the david l. appel award 
To the marketing senior involved in significant community service activities nicholas t. conrad, Bayville, New Jersey 
Band service award 
Awarded to the band members for dedication and service to the Notre Dame Band caroline margaret heilmann, Williamsport, Pennsylvania erin lee Krumenacker, Mechanicsville, Maryland leonard anthony rago, Northbrook, Illinois 
the George Brinkley award 
To the student who exemplifies the Political Science department's ideals of public service through service to the department, the University, or the wider community nora Grace Goebelbecker, Chicago, Illinois 
the james B. Carroll annual Prize 
For the best contribution to the Juggler and/or for best artwork contribution to the Juggler Katherine nicole fusco, Omaha, Nebraska 
Citation of merit award 
For contribution to Notre Dame’s residential mission through service in the student’s residence hall ashley christine Barraza, Dallas, Texas vincent christian Burns, Akron, Ohio christopher daniel dillon, Littleton, Colorado heather michelle eaton, Columbia, Missouri danielle elyse fasani, Oak Park, California Thomas michael feifar, Jr., Inverness, Illinois sarah Josephine fleming, Chicago, Illinois Grace marie hatfield, Albuquerque, New Mexico William Jackson hefferon, Armonk, New York Kristian hila, Lakewood, Ohio meredith ann holland, Moutain Lakes, New Jersey William alexander holmes, Centennial, Colorado mary clare Kathleen houlihan, Clarkston, Michigan Kelly rose Keenan, Garden City, New York meghan elizabeth Krueger, Hopkinton, Massachusetts adam Berchman llorens, Grosse Pointe, Michigan stephanie ann lobaccaro, Albertson, New York mitchell James lopes, Simi Valley, California James William mcallister, Mansfield, Massachusetts 
nicole e. mcmillan, Boise, Idaho monica Pearl mcnerney, Pembroke Pines, Florida elliot diana miller, Noblesville, Indiana Patrick ngoc hieu nguyen, Owasso, Oklahoma Jessica laura Peek, Plainfield, Illinois Jacob Philip Pellegrini, Newport Beach, California daniel Joseph rish, Courtdale, Pennsylvania soren f. rucker, Oakton, Virginia michael Zachary szopiak, Bend, Oregon nimmy Josephine Thomas, Plano, Texas mary Kate veselik, Clarendon Hills, Illinois daniel Johnathan yi, Bakersfield, California 
the reverend a. leonard Collins, C.s.C. award 
To a graduating senior who has made substantial personal efforts to advance the interest of students at the University of Notre Dame alexander felice coccia, Columbus, Ohio 
Community service award 
Awarded to band members for dedication and service to the community that the Notre Dame Band serves elizabeth ann fitzGerald, Colleyville, Texas nicole e. mcmillan, Boise, Idaho 
the reverend john Considine, mm award 
For outstanding student contributions to the study of, or service to, the Catholic Church in Latin America mary clare rigali, Santa Maria, California 
the tara k. deutsch award 
To a senior in the Department of Accountancy for exemplary social consciousness and devotion to efforts to give hope to the less fortunate elizabeth hills tucker, Jacksonville, Florida 
diversity and inclusion student leader award 
To the senior whose contributions have significantly advanced diversity and inclusion efforts within the University of Notre Dame community edithstein cho, Roseville, Minnesota 
the mara Fox award for service to the hispanic Community 
To the senior who has studied Spanish at Notre Dame and contributed outstanding service to the Hispanic community nimmy Josephine Thomas, Plano, Texas 
the john W. Gardner leadership award 
To a graduating senior, graduate, or professional student who has exemplified the ideals of the University through outstanding volunteer service beyond the university community Peter Keon Woo, Tenafly, New Jersey 


hall spirit award 
To seniors who have most exemplified the spirit of Notre Dame through personality, character, and actions Jiyeon ahn, Salem, Oregon Juan miguel alvarez, Colorado Springs, Colorado amanda Jill Bambury, Colorado Springs, Colorado taylor marie Boland, Stoddard, Wisconsin timothy William Brazelton, Robbinsville, New Jersey samuel dwight Bungum, Park Ridge, Illinois daniel michael Byrne, Bittendorf, Iowa Katelyn margaret campbell, Homewood, Illinois Kelsie v. corriston, Ho-Ho-Kus, New Jersey Quan Khanh do, Annandale, Virginia Jacob fred frego iii, Hudson, Ohio eli Patrick langson, Charlotte, North Carolina claire marie larosa, Venetia, Pennsylvania Patrick daniel laskowski, Carmel, Indiana marcus Ward liddell, Eau Claire, Wisconsin monica elizabeth lopez, Fort Collins, Colorado John Patrick o'Brien, Columbus, Ohio James Gregory o'donohue iii, Hillsborough, New Jersey alex santiago oloriz, Laguna Niguel, California antoinette Josephine m.J. Pusateri, Dublin, Ohio Katherine anne Puszka, Buffalo Grove, Illinois alison elise Quinn, Coto de Caza, California colleen frances reidy, Buffalo, New York lily harlaine rodgers, Edgewood, Kentucky olaf rodriguez, McAllen, Texas Paul martin rodriguez, McAllen, Texas Kathleen marie ryan, Columbus, Ohio Jennifer marie traver, Darien, Connecticut Paul edward Wojtal, Cedar Grove, New Jersey 
irish Clover award 
Established in 1985, this award is given annually by Student Government to recognize students, faculty or staff for outstanding service to the students of the Notre Dame community nancy elizabeth Joyce, Akron, Ohio 
the Byron V. kanaley award 
Awarded to the senior monogram winners who have been most exemplary as student athletes and as leaders Gregory scott andrews, Kalamazoo, Michigan Kelly maureen curran, Bloomington, Illinois Jennifer elizabeth Kellner, Smithtown, New York Gerek lin meinhardt, San Francisco, California logan Joshua renwick, Butler, Pennsylvania harrison m. shipp, Lake Forest, Illinois elizabeth hills tucker, Jacksonville, Florida 
david j. laBarre Community service award 
To the MNA student who is well regarded by his/her fellow MNA classmates, possesses the integrity and character consistent with Notre Dame ideals, demonstrates a willingness to help other students, and displays a commitment to both Notre Dame and the surrounding communities michael Joseph callaghan, c.o., Brooklyn, New York 
albert le may award for service to the hispanic Community 
To the senior who participated in the Pueblo Program and used the Spanish language to serve the community richard anthony meena, Louisville, Kentucky 
the j. sinnot meyer award 
To a graduating American Studies senior for outstanding service to the University maria Kipp Kosse, Louisville, Kentucky 
the denny moore award for excellence in journalism 
To the senior who exemplifies the qualities for which Denny was known, including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability Julia suzanne steiner, Louisville, Kentucky 
Blessed Basil moreau, C.s.C. leadership award 
Awarded to a senior who embodies Father Moreau’s vision of educating both the heart and mind, and who has demonstrated significant effort to advance the Catholic character of the University Jiyeon ahn, Salem, Oregon 
robert F. O’Brien award 
Awarded for outstanding service and dedication to the Notre Dame Band leo alexander mironovich, Parma, Ohio 
Outstanding Band member award 
Awarded to a band member for loyalty, dedication, and leadership Blake dechellis Weaver, Weatherford, Texas 
michael j. Palumbo award 
Presented to a member of the undergraduate student body for their outstanding commitment and dedication to the Notre Dame Student Union matthew anthony hayes, Rockville Centre, New York 
the Charles and simone Parnell award 
To the senior who attended the Angers International Study Program and has demonstrated a high level of international awareness and social service activities participation michelle lynn luna, Pico Rivera, California 
the daniel h. Pedtke memorial award 
Presented to seniors in the Notre Dame Glee Club in recognition of musical leaderhsip, exemplary personal character, and overall contribution to the success of the group robert Joseph mcKenna, Richmond, Virginia Brian Patrick scully, Gainesville, Georgia michael lee allen Thompson, Tuskegee, Alabama 
William richardson award in hispanic Culture 
To the African-American senior who has studied Spanish at Notre Dame and demonstrated an active interest in, and awareness of, Hispanic culture Gabriella marie Pope-davis, South Bend, Indiana 
the ray siegfried award for leadership excellence 
Awarded annually to a senior at Notre Dame who exemplifies the qualities for which Notre Dame Trustee Ray Siegfried was known, including leadership, generosity, devotion to the Catholic faith, and affinity for the spirit of athletic competition elizabeth hills tucker, Jacksonville, Florida 


jose tito siguenza award for service to hispanic youth 
To the senior who has studied Spanish at Notre Dame and contributed outstanding service to Hispanic youth shannon colleen lewry, Birmingham, Michigan 
Gerald F. smith memorial award 
Awarded to a band member for citizenship and loyalty to the Notre Dame Band Beatrix anne Weil, Lynbrook, New York 
student activities leadership award 
To students who best exemplify the spirit of Notre Dame in social, recreational, residential, service, and religious activities that promote the welfare of the University and extended communities margaret mc intosh armstrong, O'Fallon, Illinois madeline rose Gillen, Naples, Florida ryan neil Gonzales, Newbury Park, California denver Joe lobo, Mangaf, Kuwait michael scott masi, Fort Collins, Colorado William earl miller, Winter Park, Florida christina frances mondi, Cincinnati, Ohio denise umubyeyi, Glenn Ellyn, Illinois 


in the Graduate school 
deans' Fellowship 
Ke chen, Guangdong, People's Republic of China roberto Jose de la noval, Miami, Florida cory Juwuan hayes, Alpharetta, Georgia raj Kumar Jana, Kolkata, India estefan miguel ortiz, Victoria, Texas luis ernesto saumell san martin, Miami, Florida almaz taye, Columbus, Ohio feng Zhu, Wugang, People's Republic of China 
diversity Fellowship 
Jessica ann hughes, South Bend, Indiana nicholas andrew Jaffa, South Bend, Indiana ashleen menchaca Kelly, New Braunfels, Texas Juan camilo medina, Bogota, Columbia 
eck institute for Global health Fellowship in Genomics and Bioinformatics 
changde cheng, Hunan, People's Republic of China richard charles Kurker, East Hartford, Connecticut 
eck institute for Global health Predoctoral Fellowship 
emmanuel adu-Gyamfi, Accra, Ghana anthony eugene clemons, Detroit, Michigan Geoffrey henry siwo, Kisumu, Kenya ling sun, Anshan, People's Republic of China 
Fernández Fellowship 
mariana i. cruz-fernández, Guaynabo, Puerto Rico david i. Gregory negron, Bayamon, Puerto Rico victor alejandro ocasio Gonzalez, Isabela, Puerto Rico 
GaaNN Fellowship 
christopher Wayne miller, Louisville, Kentucky Jeffrey richard Paone, South Bend, Indiana 
astrik l. Gabriel doctoral Fellowship in the history of medieval education 
Garrett randall smith, Folsom, California 
samuel and mary anne hazo Poetry award 
Peter samir Jeries twal, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 
kaneb Center Outstanding Graduate student teacher award 
douglas ryan Berry, Midland, Michigan clare Brogan, Little Silver, New Jersey Brian michael Bucher, Valparaiso, Indiana Katherine michelle Byrd, Detroit, Michigan Peter youn ho choi, Grand Rapids, Michigan James david cotton, South Bend, Indiana amin doostmohammadi, Zanjan, Iran erin e. drew, Madison, Wisconsin fernando antonio Garcia, Caracas, Venezuela andrew stephen Gillman, South Bend, Indiana temistocle Grenga, Sonnino, Italy ian michael harrier, Montague, Michigan mark edward hope, Chicago, Illinois matthew mcintyre Jobbins, Freehold, New Jersey ann catherine Johnson, Defiance, Iowa ashleen menchaca Kelly, New Braunfels, Texas michael Butler Kelly, Tangent, Oregon erica Jean Kistner, Maple Valley, Washington Graham edward leach-Krouse, Williamstown, Massachusetts robert Bertrand lester, Great Falls, Montana Joshua david lioi, Aiken, South Carolina damon mcGraw, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania matthew david mosby, Mishawaka, Indiana victor alejandro ocasio Gonzalez, Isabela, Puerto Rico Johanna Pocahontas olson, Madison, Wisconsin michael W. Penninger, Niles, Michigan elizabeth mcGuire Planalp, Cincinnati, Ohio matthew Joseph Polinski, North Charleroi, Pennsylvania francis J. raycroft, Whitestown, Indiana Jayme christine russell, Athens, Ohio Katelyn ann seprish, Snow Shoe, Pennsylvania allison renee showalter, Altoona, Iowa Zachary love terranova, Rockford, Illinois Jeffrey michael tolly, South Bend, Indiana amit Kumar verma, Kanpur, India felix vietmeyer, Emmerthal, Germany Katherine elizabeth Ward, Arkadelphia, Arkansas Benjamin James Wetzel, Terre Hill, Pennsylvania matthew ryan Wilson, Mishawaka, Indiana Jonathan stephen Wolff, Mansfield, New Jersey maryam meechka Zomorodian, Irvine, California 


kellogg institute dissertation Fellowship 
Brandon rama vaidyanathan, Bangalore, India 
kellogg institute P.h.d. Fellowship 
Kimberly ann Berg, Marinette, Wisconsin chonghyun choi, Seoul, Republic of Korea maria del Pilar Giannini Bravo, Ann Arbor, Michigan stefanie elizabeth israel, Portland, Oregon anne Barbara mcGinness, Shaker Heights, Ohio nolan James corry locke noble, Fulterton, California francisco Javier osorio Zago, Puebla, Mexico susy mariela sanchez rodriguez, Lima, Peru lucia tiscornia, Montevideo, Uruguay Julieta yung, Mar del Plata, Argentina 
lilly Presidential Fellowship 
dulcinea lela Boesenberg, Greenwood, Indiana James Wainwright clancy, San Diego, California Josephine K. h. dru, Yukon, Oklahoma andrew Zachary hansen, Lincoln, Nebraska loren K. higbee, Provo, Utah michael Butler Kelly, Tangent, Oregon chad Patton Kiewiet de Jonge, Farmville, Virginia Krystin lee Krause, Nashville, Tennessee Graham edward leach-Krouse, Williamstown, Massachusetts charles hamlin Pence, Bastrop, Texas 
Clare Boothe luce Presidential Fellowship 
hannah rose Babbini, Burlington, Ontario, Canada anne elizabeth martin, Newark, Delaware sarah catherine reiff, Mount Prospect, Illinois 
andrew W. mellon Foundation Grant for religion across the disciplines 
anna huiberdina hilda de Bakker, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada emily christine Kirkegaard, South Bend, Indiana 
William mitchell memorial award 
christine marie texeira, Kent, Washington 
Naughton Fellowship 
lauren arta assour, Walnut Creek, California daniel michael collins, Bray, Ireland tomás christopher collins, Carrigmore, Ireland conor edward hanley, Jacksonville, Florida shane Paul mccarthy, Cork, Ireland shane cathal mcQuillan, Co. Monaghan, Ireland ciaran michael murphy, Glantane, Co. Cork, Ireland conor James o'donoghue, Clonakilty, Co. Cork, Ireland finnian Jacob Pegler, South Bend, Indiana sushant avinash sabnis, Fort Worth, Texas andrew James steward, Plainfield, Indiana 
richard and Peggy Notebaert Premier Graduate  Fellowship 
John Paul dantonio, South Bend, Indiana anna huiberdina hilda de Bakker, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada mark francis hoipkemier, South Bend, Indiana emily christine Kirkegaard, South Bend, Indiana Jason robert tomko, South Park, Pennsylvania 
arthur j. schmitt Presidential Fellowship 
ashley Kate Baldridge, Houghton, Michigan Thomas alan duster, Golden, Colorado michael Patrick harter, Menmonee Falls, Wisconsin michael Warren Kennedy, Modesto, California adam mitchell Knaack, McHenry, Illinois Benjamin dale lewis, South Haven, Michigan Joshua david lioi, Aiken, South Carolina christopher Wayne miller, Louisville, Kentucky Peter raymond sempolinski, Painted Post, New York rose Kerry Weisshaar, Madison, Wisconsin 
eli j. and helen shaheen Graduate school award 
akaa daniel ayangeakaa, Willowbrook, Illinois Justin Paul farrell, Omaha, Nebraska albertus Gerhardus almeida horsting, Haverhill, New Hampshire anne elizabeth martin, Newark, Delaware 
university Presidential Fellowship 
Kelsey Blomeke, South Bend, Indiana rebecca y.m. cheung, Hong Kong, Hong Kong alexander Justin dukalskis, Roseburg, Oregon Philipp Gollner, South Bend, Indiana david charles Kneip, Abilene, Texas charles andre laurin, South Bend, Indiana robert Bertrand lester, Great Falls, Montana sarah elizabeth Peters, South Bend, Indiana Kathryn anne Pogin, South Bend, Indiana aaron david segal, Skokie, Illinois John Joseph shanley, Edinburgh, United Kingdom Katherine lee sorrell, Houston, Texas 
Voll Family Presidential Fellowship 
megan Jennifer austin, South Bend, Indiana William rudolph smith, New Orleans, Louisiana 



in the laW school 
aBa-Bloomberg BNa award 
For excellence in the study of Health Law colin robert littlefield, Loudonville, New York stephanie ann maloney, Barrington, Rhode Island Kevin John murphy, Carmel, Indiana 
the arthur abel award 
For excellence in writing for the Notre Dame Law Review Jon Gregory heintz, Erie, Pennsylvania 
ali-Cle scholarship and leadership award 
In recognition for being one of the up to five graduates in this Law School class who best represents a combination of scholarship and leadership, the qualities embodied by the American Law Patrick ryan cassidy, Brookfield, Wisconsin stephanie ann maloney, Barrington, Rhode Island 
american Bar association section of labor and employment law and the Bureau of National affairs, inc. award 
For excellence in the study of Labor and Employment Law Kevin douglas Battle, Jr., Muskegon, Michigan angela nicole Johnson, South Bend, Indiana Kathryn ann rosenbaum, Oak Lawn, Illinois 
award for Outstanding achievement 
In the program of study in Business Law: Brian Patrick fox, Shamokin Dam, Pennsylvania In the program of study in Criminal Law: maria christina doerflinger, Silver Spring, Maryland In the program of study in Global Law: michael robert Kilgarriff, Eagan, Minnesota In the program of study of Intellectual Property and Technology Law: michael James mogavero, Erie, Pennsylvania In the program of study in Public Law: John Gregory heintz, Erie, Pennsylvania 
edward F. Barrett award 
For outstanding achievement in the art of trial advocacy Paul r. Kerridge, South Bend, Indiana sheila maureen Prendergast, Chicago, Illinois andrew James spica, Grand Rapids, Michigan 
the joseph Ciraolo memorial award 
To a law student who exemplifies spirit, service, and significant achievement in the face of adversity as did Joe, beloved member of the class of 1997 robert Thomas howard, Chesapeake, Virginia 
the Farabaugh Prize 
For high scholarship in law 
to be announced at a later date 
the Colonel William j. hoynes award 
For outstanding scholarship, application, deportment, and achievement 
to be announced at a later date 
international academy of trial lawyers award 
For distinguished achievement in the art of advocacy Brian richard ellixson, Havertown, Pennsylvania lynn marie Kaiser, New Canaan, Connecticut Bryan d. Pasciak, Rockford, Michigan 
jessup international moot Court award 
For excellence in advocacy 
to be announced at a later date 
Conrad kellenberg award 
For service toward the betterment of the Law School and local community Brian James Wright-Bushman, Mission Viejo, California 
William t. kirby award 
For excellence in brief writing 
to be announced at a later date 
dean konop legal aid award 
For outstanding service in the Legal Aid Clinic anthony John carucci, Thousand Oaks, California 
the jon e. krupnick award 
For excellence in the art of trial advocacy april dawn Kentala, Darien, Illinois Theodore John Koroshetz, South Bend, Indiana michelle a. Pope, Roswell, Georgia 
david t. link award 
For outstanding service in the field of social justice William stanton mcclintock, Greenville, South Carolina 
the judge joseph e. mahoney award 
For outstanding leadership ashley diane Wood, Lake Forest, Illinois 
the arthur a. may award 
To a member of the Barristers team who demonstrates a commitment to professional ethical standards and exhibits excellence in trial advocacy Kristian carew smith Weir, Fargo, North Dakota 
Captain William O. mclean law school Community Citizenship award 
Awarded to the person(s) who has done the most to contribute to the lives of students at the Law School chelsey noelle Kelso, East Aurora, New York 
the dean joseph O’meara award 
For outstanding academic achievement 
to be announced at a later date 


the a. harold Weber moot Court awards 
For outstanding achievement in the art of oral argument Grace anne fox, Evansville, Indiana lauren mogavero Grindall, Erie, Pennsylvania michael robert Kilgarriff, Eagan, Minnesota andrew John mcKeon, Austin, Texas ryan s. mcnish, Jackson, Michigan matthew martin o'rourke, Bloomingdale, Illinois 
the a. harold Weber Writing award 
For excellence in essay writing Jon Gregory heintz, Erie, Pennsylvania 
h. king Williams memorial award 
To a graduating student who has made a significant contribution to building community at the Law School stephanie ann maloney, Barrington, Rhode Island 


in the colleGe of arts and letters 
the reginald Bain award 
To the Notre Dame students who produce remarkable theatre projects from any area of theatre during the academic year renée darline roden, Eden Prairie, Minnesota samantha K. schubert, Lombard, Illinois 
the dr. robert joseph Barnet award 
To the outstanding Arts and Letters Preprofessional senior who has demonstrated, in addition to excellent character, superior academic achievement across the arts and sciences Kathryn elizabeth squiers, Dallas, Texas 
the Paul Bartholomew Prize 
For the best senior theses in the field of political theory louis victor marie michel douville de franssu, Brussels, Belgium lisa marie taylor, Byron Center, Michigan 
Walter r. Beardsley award 
For excellence in the M.F.A. show mary esther fashbaugh, Ironwood, Michigan 
the Otto a. Bird award 
To the Program of Liberal Studies student who submits the best senior research essay iona marie hughan, San Francisco, California 
the joseph italo Bosco senior award 
To graduating seniors for excellence in Italian studies alfredo antonio Guzman-dominguez, Manhasset, New York mary Therese Prokop, Strongsville, Ohio 
the Broad avenue Filmmakers award 
To graduating seniors for the most outstanding student films Fiction: carleigh Brianne coyne, Downington, Pennsylvania John michael rodgers, Palm City, Florida Non-Fiction: Katherine elizabeth mattie, Ypsilanti, Michigan vincent angelo moore, Jr., Bloomfield, Connecticut William Watson neal, Covington, Louisiana 
the reverend lawrence G. Broestl, C.s.C. German  award 
To a graduating senior for excellence in the study of German language and literature leo mcKeever hall, Grosse Pointe Park, Michigan 
the Peter Brown Professional achievement award 
To the anthropology student with outstanding performance in the tasks of a professional academic in one or more of the following areas:  publication, presentation at professional meetings, grants, or fellowships lisa marie carlson, Novi, Michigan 
the dr. john e. Burke award 
To outstanding Arts and Letters Preprofessional seniors who have demonstrated, in addition to excellent academic achievement, outstanding leadership qualities through service within and/or beyond the Notre Dame community Brian Philip duffy, Milwaukee, Wisconsin chelsea marie lehman, Dallas, Texas 
the reverend joseph h. Cavanaugh, C.s.C. award 
To the senior who has evidenced high qualities of personal character and academic excellence in theological studies Brittany Gabriella abt, Coto de Caza, California 
the susan marie Clements award 
To the Program of Liberal Studies female senior who exemplifies outstanding qualities of scholarly achievement, industry, compassion, and service anne margaret mccarthy, Malibu, California 
the dockweiler medal for Philosophy 
To the seniors in the College of Arts and Letters who submit the best essay on a philosophical theme stephen michael Bischoff, Hanover, Pennsylvania rebecca louise Thomas, Rochester Hills, Michigan 
east asian languages and Cultures award 
To seniors for excellence in the study of Chinese, Japanese, and Korean Chinese: eric anthony Brumleve, Lousiville, Kentucky Japanese: margaret Gabriella Pickard, South Bend, Indiana Korean: michelle Paek, Brea, California 
the margaret eisch memorial Prize in  sociology 
To the most outstanding senior majoring in sociology Karyn terese vilbig, Saint Louis, Missouri 


endowment for excellence award in romance languages and literature 
To a graduating senior for excellence in Romance Languages and Literature maegan Kathleen Boucher, Dillsburg, Pennsylvania 
the Paul Farmer anthropology service award 
To the student who has used their anthropological training for public service lauren michelle schmitt, Eagan, Minnesota 
the William and Connie Greif award 
Awarded to outstanding Bachelor of Fine Arts students William Wagner carden iii, Beaumont, Texas carolyn chapin Green, Ridgefield, Washington emily ann hoffmann, Minnetonka, Minnesota Peter francis Kristiansen, Mendham, New Jersey maria francesca massa, Gallatin, Tennessee Jeffrey Thomas mclean, Batavia, Illinois eileen taylor murphy, South Bend, Indiana nathalia conte silvestre, Sao Paulo, Brazil James William slaven, Overland Park, Kansas stephanie lisa Wulz, Ramsey, New Jersey 
the helen hritzu and jewell erickson award 
For excellence in Arabic or Classical Studies Arabic: lucas sergio de la fuente munita, Santiago, Chile sabina ranette fischer, Wilmington, North Carolina nancy elizabeth Joyce, Akron, Ohio Classical: michael andrew Kipp, Wheaton, Illinois victoria marie roeck, Westfield, New Jersey 
the david huffman scholar/athlete award in anthropology 
To the student with outstanding performance in the anthropology major and in athletics Jenny ann fucillo, Winthrop, Massachusetts 
the irwin Press Prize in medical anthropology 
For the best paper in medical anthropology morgan Kay Benson, Plantation, Florida 
the emil jacques Gold medal of Fine arts 
Awarded to a student by the Department of Art, Art History, and Design for excellence in studio art stephanie lisa Wulz, Ramsey, New Jersey 
the emil jacques silver medal of Fine arts 
Awarded to a student by the Department of Art, Art History, and Design for excellence in studio art James William slaven, Overland Park, Kansas 
the john joyce award on the american Worker 
The award is given as merited to the best undergraduate and/or graduate research paper or creative work on the “American Worker”, by the Higgins Labor Studies Program 
to be determined at a later date 
the donald and marilyn keough award 
For excellence in Irish Studies samantha ann caesar, South Bend, Indiana 
the stephen kertesz Prize 
For the best senior thesis in the field of international relations edward francis mathers linczer, South Bend, Indiana 
Walter langford award for excellence in French literature 
To the graduating senior major whose work was deemed most outstanding in French literature by the Romance Languages and Literatures faculty sylvia seokhee yong, Gainesville, Florida 
Walter langford award for excellence in spanish literature 
To the graduating senior majors whose work was deemed most outstanding in Spanish literature by the Romance Languages and Literatures faculty molly Kathryn daily, Chatham, Illinois Thomas alexander mann, Jr., Crestwood, Kentucky 
Father anthony j. lauck award 
Awarded to best of show for senior Design: rachel elizabeth Brandenberger, South Bend, Indiana James Joseph mcclay iv, Cary, North Carolina Studio Art: Kalie ann holdren, South Bend, Indiana 
liu Family distinguished achievement award in asian studies 
Honors the student whose character and undergraduate work best exemplify the qualities of commitment, diligence, and imagination in the study of Asia deanna alexandra Kolberg, South Bend, Indiana 
the Gertrude austin marti award in theology 
To the graduating senior who has given evidence of qualities of personal character and academic achievement in theological studies Jiyeon ahn, Salem, Oregon 
michel Prize in medieval studies 
Outstanding essay on a medieval topic by a graduating senior mairead Jilliann mumford, Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania 
the George monteiro Prize 
For the seniors who have written an outstanding essay in Portuguese casey Joy miller hall, Okemos, Michigan sarah faith mcGough, Westlake Village, California megan clare olson, Pewaukee, Wisconsin 
mabel l. mountain Painting Prize 
Awarded to an art student for excellence in painting Gabrielle lina Going, Atlanta, Georgia 
the james e. and Barbara l. murphy award 
To a graduating senior in the Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics, and Democracy for exceptional journalism victoria robbins Jacobsen, Huntingtown, Maryland 


the reverend raymond W. murray, C.s.C. award in anthropology 
To the outstanding senior majoring in anthropology sarah faith mcGough, Westlake Village, California 
the Paul Neville journalism award 
To a graduating senior in the Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics, and Democracy for excellence in journalism marisa suzanne iati, Skillman, New Jersey 
the robert d. Nuner modern and Classical language  award 
To a graduating senior in the College of Arts and Letters with a first or second major in any classical or modern foreign language who has earned the highest cumulative grade point average victoria marie roeck, Westfield, New Jersey 
the Willis d. Nutting award 
To the Program of Liberal Studies senior who best embodies the department’s high teaching and learning ideals robert david alvarez, Santa Fe Springs, California 
the monsignor Francis a. O’Brien award 
To a history major for the best research paper 
to be announced at a later date 
reverend marvin r. O’Connell award 
For the best essay written in the history workshop teresa maureen rubinger, Arlington, Virginia Kathryn elizabeth squiers, Dallas, Texas 
the Guillermo O’donnell Prize 
For the best senior theses in the field of comparative politics lindsay virginia dun, Lincolnshire, Illinois conor Patrick durkin, Glen Ellyn, Illinois 
the hugh O’donnell award in american studies 
To a senior who demonstrates outstanding academic achievement in American Studies, intellectual curiosity, and engagement in the major aubrey leigh Butts, Lima, Ohio 
the john a. Oesterle awards in Philosophy 
Award given when meritied to a graduating philosophy major for excellence in philosophy daniel Bendisi Kokotajlo, Washington, District of Columbia 
the O’hagan award 
Awarded by the Department of History to a history major for the best original essay on a phase of Irish history 
to be announced at a later date 
the joseph P. O’toole jr. award 
To graduating seniors for outstanding work in film production Blake andrew avery, Anchorage, Alaska michael logan Britt, Minnetonka, Minnesota 
Outstanding Creative Writing student 
To the graduating senior who has excelled in creative writing Brittany nicole davis, Osceola, Indiana 
Outstanding senior award 
Awarded to the most outstanding music department senior, by vote of the undergraduate committee William martin sievern, Evansville, Indiana 
Oustanding student in Pre-1700 literature 
To the graduating senior who has excelled in the study of literature from the era before 1700 mary Therese Prokop, Strongsville, Ohio 
the Philip l. Quinn Gender studies Outstanding essay award 
Awarded to the student with the best undergraduate essay maria Kipp Kosse, Louisville, Kentucky 
john j. reilly scholar award 
To Arts and Letters/Engineering seniors with outstanding performances in their careers as Notre Dame students michael stefan Kochanski, Bartlett, Illinois arnold James schmidt, Billings, Montana Jonathan nicholas schommer, Plainfield, Indiana vanessa arlene steger, Saint Louis, Missouri 
eugene m. riley Prize in Photography 
For excellence in photography by a photography major nicole christine toczauer, Oak Park, California 
radwan and allan riley Prize 
Awarded to a senior for excellence in his or her respective field Design: maria francesca massa, Gallatin, Tennessee Studio Art: douglas John angulo, Riverside, California 
the james e. robinson award 
To the outstanding senior English major marielle domenique hampe, Coraopolis, Pennsylvania 
the stephen rogers award 
For an outstanding Program of Liberal Studies student pursuing graduate study Brennan david Kruszewski, Erie, Pennsylvania 
the john roos Prize 
For the best senior thesis in the field of American politics Thomas Joseph mcGuire, Fort Bragg, North Carolina 
russian senior award 
To a graduating senior for excellence in the study of Russian Language and Literature Kellie marie travis, Mission Viejo, California 
the julian samora award 
To the student demonstrating broad engagement with academic life Patrick samuel salemme, Jamestown, New York 
the ernest sandeen Poetry award 
Awarded to the undergraduate student submitting the best original poetry sara elizabeth mcGuirk, Howell, New Jersey 


the john F. santos award for distinctive achievement in Psychology 
In recognition of outstanding achievement in research, academic performance, and student-life activities casey Joy miller hall, Okemos, Michigan christina frances mondi, Cincinnati, Ohio 
senior recognition award in Psychology 
In recognition of outstanding achievement in research, academic performance, and student-life activities while pursuing a major course of study in psychology Kelsey rose howard, Hawthorn Woods, Illinois ashley victoria Gianna lawrence, Albuquerque, New Mexico michelle lynn luna, Pico Rivera, California Whitney elizabeth mcWherter, Pensacola, Florida erika lorena rivera, Houston, Texas Jamie margaret segerson, Dearborn, Michigan carolyn elizabeth turek, Lyons, Illinois 
senior thesis Prize 
Best history thesis by a senior history major 
to be determined at a later date 
the Brother simeon, C.s.C. award 
For distinction in Irish language and literature anne margaret mccarthy, Malibu, California 
the sociology Outstanding senior essay award 
For the most outstanding senior sociology essay aaron michael sant-miller, Rochester, New York 
the richard t. sullivan award 
Awarded to the undergraduate student submitting the best written work in fiction Kimberly e. halstead, Granger, Indiana 
television studies award 
To graduating seniors for outstanding work in television studies adam Berchman llorens, Grosse Pointe, Michigan shelby renee hood, Kerrville, Texas 
the theatre alumni award 
To a graduating senior for outstanding work in theatre Kathleen Bernice mullins, Hudson, Ohio 
the lauren B. thomas scholarship 
To an outstanding Russian major who exhibits financial need casey anne connolly, Watervliet, New York 
the Genevieve d. Willis senior thesis Prize 
Awarded to the Gender Studies major or minor judged to have produced the most outstanding senior thesis lindsay virginia dun, Lincolnshire, Illinois 
the Professor james Withey award 
To a senior in American Studies for notable achievement in writing Benjamin James cooper, Coeur d'Alene, Idaho 
the judith a. Wrappe memorial award 
To first semester seniors majoring in art who demonstrate the qualities of talent, tenacity, spirit, good humor, and goodness Peter francis Kristiansen, Mendham, New Jersey eileen taylor murphy, South Bend, Indiana 
the Peter yarrow award in Peace studies 
Awarded to students in Peace Studies who demonstrate academic excellence and a commitment to peace and justice in the world alexander felice coccia, Columbus, Ohio ilse Patricia Zenteno, Saint Louis, Missouri 


in the colleGe of science 
the lawrence h. Baldinger award 
Given to graduates who demonstrate academic excellence, broad leadership skills, and professionalism at the undergraduate level as they prepare for medical training matthew taylor harbrecht, Columbus, Ohio alexander christopher yaney, Fort Wayne, Indiana 
robert P. Balles distinguished mathematics scholar 
For excellence in mathematics John daniel Brahier, Perrysburg, Ohio 
robert P. Balles honors Program mathematics scholar 
For excellence in mathematics Jonathan stanley sheperd, Oxford, Michigan 
robert Braco, m.d., honors research award 
This award is given to outstanding senior honors students who have excelled in all aspects of the biology honors program, including significant research accomplishments, graduate-level academic work, and an exemplary senior thesis nicholas robert Pagani, Bolton, Connecticut Kristin nicole springer, New Albany, Ohio 
the Paul Chagnon award in Physics 
To be given to a senior physics major for demonstrated character and leadership, and service to the University, Department of Physics, and his or her fellow physics majors 
to be announced at a later date 
samuel j. Chmell, m.d. award 
Given to a preprofessional student who demonstrates a high level academic achievement, exemplary character, and integrity david Thomas lee, Nashville, Tennessee 


the dean’s award 
Presented to the outstanding graduating seniors in the College of Science in recognition of exemplary personal character, leadership, service, and outstanding achievement michael ryan macGillivray, Phoenix, Arizona rebecca marie marton, Andover, Massachusetts 
the dean’s research award 
Presented to the outstanding graduating senior in the College of Science in recognition of exceptional research within and across the traditional boundaries of scholarly disciplines who embraces, facilitates, and fosters an environment of scientific inquiry rachel nicole cotton, San Diego, California 
the haaser scholarship in mathematics 
For excellence in mathematics John daniel Brahier, Perrysburg, Ohio mitchell mahoney faulk, Rockford, Illinois daniel reid irvine, Mobile, Alabama hannah virginia Pawelczyk, Frankfort, Illinois arnold James schmidt, Billings, Montana Jonathan stanley sheperd, Oxford, Michigan 
the kolettis award in mathematics 
For excellence in mathematics david reid irvine, Mobile, Alabama 
mr. and mrs. Frank mcdonald undergraduate research award 
This award is given to the senior who has demonstrated extraordinary promise in biological research, as evidenced by outstanding undergraduate research accomplishment and dedication, including significant intellectual contribution to her project rachel nicole cotton, San Diego, California 
the Patrick j. Niland, m.d. award 
To a preprofessional studies student who demonstrated a high level of academic achievement, professionalism, and integrity richard anthony meena, Louisville, Kentucky 
Outstanding Biochemist award 
For leadership, academic achievements, research, and scholarship in biochemistry emily anne siebert, Saint Louis, Missouri 
Outstanding Biochemistry research award 
For excellence in research in biochemistry mark Philip metzinger, Katy, Texas 
Outstanding Biological scientist award 
This award is given to graduating seniors who have demonstrated extraordinary promise in the biological sciences as evidenced by both academic and research excellence Patricia denise amorado, Mount Vernon, Illinois andrew Guy mancini, Erie, Pennsylvania frank matthew mezzacappa, Omaha, Nebraska roger stephen smith, Homer Glen, Illinois valerie ann verdun, Byron, Illinois 
Outstanding Chemist award 
For academic and research achievements in chemistry as an undergraduate carolyn ann Keefe, Bear, Delaware 
Outstanding Chemistry research award 
For excellence in research in chemistry ansel Peter nalin, Carmel, Indiana 
Outstanding environmental scientist award 
This award is given to a senior who has demonstrated extraordinary promise in the environmental sciences as evidenced by both academic and research excellence charles cong yang xu, Wuhan, People's Republic of China 
Outstanding Physics major 
Outstanding senior physics major craig russell cahillane, Rockford, Illinois 
Outstanding undergraduate research award 
Outstanding research by an undergraduate physics major John henry Brems, Kensington, Maryland 
senior Ge Prize for honors majors in mathematics 
For excellence in mathematics mitchell mahoney faulk, Rockford, Illinois daniel reid irvine, Mobile, Alabama michael ryan macGillivray, Phoenix, Arizona Jonathan stanley sheperd, Oxford, Michigan 
senior Ge Prize for mathematics majors 
For excellence in mathematics Kyle matthew mccall, Palatine, Illinois daniel Joseph o'shaughnessy, Cincinnati, Ohio hannah virginia Pawelczyk, Frankfort, Illinois luke alexander sernau, South Bend, Indiana 
the reverend joseph l. Walter, C.s.C. award 
To preprofessional students dedicated to service anna marie Powers, Columbia, Missouri Gregory lyle yungtum, Sumner, Iowa 
Paul F. Ware, m.d., excellence in undergraduate research award 
This award is the highest honor bestowed upon a graduating senior.  This student has exemplified the ideal qualities of a biological scientist in academic performance, research accomplishment, and leadership rebecca marie marton, Andover, Massachusetts 
William r. Wischerath Outstanding Chemistry major award 
For academic achievements of a graduating senior chemistry major ansel Peter nalin, Carmel, Indiana 



in the colleGe of enGineerinG 
the aero Propulsion award 
To the senior Aerospace Engineering major for outstanding performance in the Gas Turbines and Propulsion class 
to be determined at a later date 
aisC/indiana Fabricators association scholarship 
To a senior Civil Engineering student who has demonstrated excellence and understanding in steel design fabrication, or construction methods allison m. rotella, Loveland, Ohio 
american society of Civil engineers activity award 
For participation in the services and activities of the American Society of Civil Engineers John Patrick reilly, Haverford, Pennsylvania daniel Joseph rish, Courtdale, Pennsylvania 
Chemical engineering alumni award 
In recognition of high scholastic standing and involvement in extra curricular activities michael J. comuniello, Levittown, New York maureen elizabeth connelly, Lisle, Illinois 
Chemical engineering Faculty award 
To the senior having the highest scholastic average after seven semesters Kevin andrew diPasquale, Andover, Massachusetts 
Chemical engineering research award 
In recognition of outstanding undergraduate research sara Kamali'i yuriko dale, Volcano, Hawaii nan lan, Guangzhou, People's Republic of China laura riedl reinke, Grant, Minnesota timothy daniel siegler, New Berlin, Wisconsin 
the americo darin Prize 
To significant improvement over the first four semesters of Engineering michael Joseph duggan, Amhurst, New York david augustus schalkwijk lopes, São Paulo, Brazil 
the Patrick j. deviny scholarship award 
To the senior in Aerospace Engineering displaying the most diligence and persistence in their studies Brian Kevin Quinn, Berlin, Connecticut 
the Vincent P. Goddard award for aerospace design 
For the best design in the senior Aerospace Design course 
to be determined at a later date 
leroy d. Graves academic improvement award 
To a senior civil engineering student for significant development in academic performance allison m. rotella, Loveland, Ohio 
dr. raymond C. Gutschick award 
To the graduating senior who has demonstrated the most promise in geological research as evidenced by a successful undergraduate research project megan Kathleen dustin, Gambrills, Maryland 
Gibran kareem research Prize 
To a senior civil engineering student who has demonstrated outstanding scholarship through undergraduate research Kevin david fink, Brookfield, Wisconsin Jennifer catherine loconsole, Glen Ellyn, Illinois 
sydney kelsey excellence Prize 
To a graduating senior, recognizing outstanding achievement in the field of structural mechanics 
to be announced at a later date 
the sydney kelsey Outstanding scholar award 
To senior civil engineering students for excellence and creativity in academics elizabeth anne andruszkiewicz, Providence, Rhode Island erik loren Jensen, Bismarck, North Dakota lauren august ladowski, Lisle, Illinois 
reverend alexander kirsch, C.s.C. award 
To the senior in geological sciences who has evidenced high qualities of personal character, scholarship, and leadership megan Kathleen dustin, Gambrills, Maryland 
the kenneth r. lauer award 
To a senior civil engineering student for leadership, integrity, and service to fellow students and community as determined by his or her classmates daniel Joseph rish, Courtdale, Pennsylvania 
the james l. massey award 
For achievement in electrical engineering, recalling communication theory, undergraduate teaching, and the Binary Examination sarah elaine divel, Rockville, Maryland 
the james a. mcCarthy scholarship 
Presented to a civil engineering student for outstanding academic and professional excellence in their junior year daniel Joseph rish, Courtdale, Pennsylvania 
the Basil r. myers award 
For achievement in electrical engineering, recalling circuit theory, the English language, and Saint George Day at Notre Dame calvin anthony Belden, Mahtomedi, Minnesota 
jerome l. Novotny design award in thermal science 
For best design in the senior Heat Transfer course Brian Kevin Quinn, Berlin, Connecticut Joseph matthew rudy, Lancaster, Pennsylvania 
Outstanding Computer engineering senior award 
For outstanding academic achievement in the computer engineering program Kevin seamus mcGinn, Rochester, New York 
Outstanding Computer science senior award 
For outstanding academic achievement in the computer science program mark andrew riehm, Stillwater, Minnesota samuel isaac tarin, Albuquerque, New Mexico 


Pi tau sigma honor award 
Notre Dame chapter recognition for outstanding academic performance and demonstrated professional potential Brandon Kekoa low, Honolulu, Hawaii 
the arthur j. Quigley award 
For achievement in electrical engineering, recalling electronics, service to our neighbor, and the little man in the circuit lindsey Johanna forsberg, Saint Paul, Minnesota 
rockwell automation design award 
For the best design in the senior mechanical engineering capstone design course Joseph matthew rudy, Lancaster, Pennsylvania 
the Walter l. shilts award for undergraduate achievement 
To senior civil engineering students who have best fulfilled their potential through hard work and dedication to obtaining the best possible education emily erin coats Palmer, Olympia, Washington ethan lee Zartman, Fulton, Indiana 
sigma Gamma tau honor award 
To the outstanding graduate in aerospace engineering Brian Kevin Quinn, Berlin, Connecticut 
the lawrence F. stauder award 
For achievement in electrical engineering, recalling electrical power, the IEEE Student Branch, and the Notre Dame Alumni Kelsey ann han, Omaha, Nebraska 
the reverend thomas a. steiner Prize 
To outstanding students in the College of Engineering who have displayed all-around excellence as students Julia Patrice concelman, Wexford, Pennsylvania Kevin andrew diPasquale, Andover, Massachusetts, taryn marie Green, Kalamazoo, Michigan Patrick Kough mcfarlane, Newtown, Pennsylvania Jane elizabeth mcGuinness, Killingworth, Connecticut daniel Joseph rish, Courtdale, Pennsyvlania 
john treacy Chemical and Biomolecular engineering award 
To the student with the highest score in Thermodynamics in the spring of their sophomore year andrew Karl heldrich, Red Lion, Pennsylvania 
zahm Prize for aeronautical engineering 
To the senior who has achieved the most distinguished record in professional subjects 
to be announced at a later date 
zahm Prize for mechanical engineering 
To the senior who has achieved the most distinguished record in professional subjects 
to be announced at a later date 


in the mendoZa colleGe of Business 
the academic excellence award 
Awarded in recognition of academic excellence in the Master of Science in Accountancy program 
to be determined at a later date 
the accountancy Chairman’s award 
To a senior for outstanding service to the Department of Accountancy laura catherine Powderly, Saint Louis, Missouri Brent richard smith, Joliet, Illinois 
the accountancy Faculty award 
To an outstanding senior in the Department of Accountancy matthew ronald Kurzejka, Kankakee, Illinois 
the William G. Barth award 
This award is designed to assist Department of Accountancy students who have accepted a full-time volunteer experience after they leave Notre Dame, or who plan to work for a not-for-profit organization alexander Welty schoemann, Calgary, Alberta, Canada 
the Wesley C. Bender award for marketing 
To the seniors with the highest grade point average in the marketing concentration chelsea elizabeth deBoer, Ada, Michigan megan Jeanne lohuis, Morristown, New Jersey rebecca louise sulentic, Hoffman Estates, Illinois 
the Peter Brady award 
To an outstanding senior in the Department of Accountancy Kelsey marie mcnamara, Elk Grove, California 
the justin harris Brumbaugh memorial award 
To the MIS/IT Management seniors whom classmates select as having had the most impact on their lives during their stay at Notre Dame elliot lawrence Badar, Saint Paul, Minnesota mackenzie Grace Kraft, Bloomington, Illinois 
the Paul F. Conway award 
Given to the senior in the Department of Finance who embodies those characteristics that define our tradition of excellence: a person of keen intellect who enriches the ideals of Notre Dame Kristian hila, Lakewood, Ohio 


the herman Crown award 
Given to the senior in the Department of Finance with the highest overall grade point average turner austin harty, Minneapolis, Minnesota 
the Brother Cyprian, C.s.C. award 
To outstanding seniors in the Department of Accountancy emily moira arjani, Chagrin Falls, Ohio John Jacob mundaden, Lake Oswego, Oregon rouxuan yuan, Nanjing, People's Republic of China yutong Zhang, Beijing, People's Republic of China 
the dean’s award 
To the student whose leadership within the Mendoza College of Business was outstanding Peter Keon Woo, Tenafly, New Jersey 
dean’s mBa award 
To the Executive MBA student in both the Chicago and South Bend classes and the traditional MBA student nominated by MBA faculty in their respective program, who demonstrate strong leadership amongst his/her classmates, show promise for future professional success and have a strong record of scholarship June yoonjung lee, Chicago, Illinois leon sanford Powell, Fairfax, Virginia harold treynor ray iv, Zionsville, Indiana 
dean’s msB award 
To the MSB student nominated by MSB faculty, who demonstrate strong leadership amongst his/her classmates, show promise for future professional success and have a strong record of scholarship xitian Wang, Taizhou, People's Republic of China 
the james dincolo award 
To outstanding seniors in the Department of Accountancy sarah elizabeth crippin, Saint Louis, Missouri sean ryan fitzgerald, Solana Beach, California Katherine elizabeth Knapp, Wheelersburg, Ohio michael J. trivella, Berkeley Heights, New Jersey 
the le Clair eells award 
Given to the senior in the Department of Finance who has demonstrated outstanding leadership Peter Keon Woo, Tenafly, New Jersey 
the eugene d. Fanning award 
To the senior man and woman who demonstrate exceptional achievement in business communication, excellence in writing, speaking, listening, and interpersonal communication, and who demonstrate leadership potential, initiative, integrity and respect for the dignity and rights of others soren f. rucker, Oakton, Virginia elizabeth hills tucker, Jacksonville, Florida 
the Federation of schools of accountancy student achievement award 
To a graduate student for outstanding performance in the Master of Science in Accountancy program in the Mendoza College of Business hannah lee Bliss, Ellisville, Missouri 
the department of Finance Outstanding service  award 
Given to the senior in the Department of Finance for rendering outstanding service to the department denver Joe lobo, Mangaf, Kuwait Joseph anthony rogers, Marysville, Michigan 
the yusaku Furuhashi  award 
To the senior or junior in the Marketing Department for the best essay capturing the marketing insights gained through the international study experience caitlin elizabeth Bobber, Mequon, Wisconsin 
the Paul d. Gilbert award 
To the senior in the Department of Marketing demonstrating outstanding leadership in departmental, college, and university activities Jocelyn ann snyder, Hampton Bays, New York 
the hamilton award for accountancy 
To the outstanding seniors in the Department of Accountancy elizabeth hills tucker, Jacksonville, Florida robert William Weltner, Green Brook, New Jersey 
the hamilton award for Finance 
Given to seniors in the Department of Finance with high academic credentials Jonathan faubert lÓpez-velasco, Guadalajara, Mexico steven albert feczko, Butler, Pennsyvlania elizabeth mary Garvin, Naperville, Illinois michael timothy nettesheim, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
the hamilton award for management 
To the outstanding consulting or entrepreneurship senior in the Department of Management with the highest cumulative grade point average ryan Joseph fish, Millville, Massachusetts 
the hamilton award for marketing 
To the outstanding senior in the Department of Marketing John michael cotter, East Aurora, New York 
the reverend theodore m. hesburgh, C.s.C. Founder’s award 
To the MNA student who demonstrates strong leadership amongst his/her classmates, shows promise for future professional success, and has a strong record of scholarship michael Joseph callaghan, c.o., Brooklyn, New York 
the raymond P. kent award 
Given to seniors in the Department of Finance for outstanding performance in finance courses eric anthony Brumleve, Louisville, Kentucky eric ryan ciura, Hoffman Estates, Illinois nicole lynn Gantz, Wisconsin Dells, Wisconsin 
the elmer layden award 
To the outstanding seniors in the Department of Accountancy laura Joan Janulewicz, Lansdale, Pennsylvania laura catherine Powderly, Saint Louis, Missouri Jennifer michelle Pruitt, Houston, Texas Brent richard smith, Joliet, Illinois 


john r. malone academic achievement award 
To the Chicago MBA, Executive MBA, and traditional MBA students with the highest cumulative grade point average 
to be determined at a later date 
john r. malone academic achievement award 
To the junior in the Department of Marketing with the highest cumulative grade point average and conferred on the winner during his/her senior year John michael cotter, East Aurora, New York 
the management award 
To the outstanding IT Management senior in the Department of Management with the highest cumulative grade point average Kirsten Jane conrath, Indian Head Park, Illinois 
the master of Non-Profit administration excellence award 
To a graduating student for exemplary efforts to enhance the MNA learning community anna Kay van overberghe, South Bend, Indiana 
the Charles G. morrow award for Business excellence 
Given in honor of the late Charles G. Morrow ‘38, to the graduating seniors in the Mendoza College of Business who have demonstrated business excellence through University service and leadership. This award also acknowledges the student's academic and professional integrity heather michelle eaton, Columbia, Missouri ryan marcus murphy, Commack, New York soren f. rucker, Oakton, Virginia 
j.d. stuart Pegg Outstanding male student award 
To the male traditional MBA student nominated by fellow students, who demonstrates outstanding academic prowess, has shown leadership, and exhibited character during his MBA experience Patrick michael Wolohan, South Bend, Indiana 
the lucy Blandford Pilkinton, Ph.d. memorial award 
To a graduating MBA candidate demonstrating exceptional achievement in management communication, excellence in writing, speaking, listening, and interpersonal communication, and who demonstrates integrity and respect for the dignity and rights of others leon sanford Powell, Fairfax, Virginia 
marylyn s. rosenthal Outstanding Female student award 
To the female traditional MBA student, nominated by fellow students, who demonstrated outstanding academic prowess, has shown outstanding leadership, and exhibited character during her MBA experience lisa christine Gibboney, Fairfax, Virginia 
marylyn s. rosenthal Outstanding male student award 
To the male traditional MBA student, nominated by fellow students, who demonstrated outstanding academic prowess, has shown outstanding leadership, and exhibited character during his MBA experience Patrick edward Burns, Brighton, Michigan 
the robert m. satterfield award 
To a student for bringing enthusiasm, integrity, and a spirit of teamwork to the classroom Benjamin Joseph mcGowan, West Bloomfield, Michigan 
donna m. sclafani memorial award scholarship 
Given as a memorial to the 1981 graduate of the University of Notre Dame, it is presented annually to an outstanding female MBA marketing student as voted by the Department of Marketng faculty Kathy Peichi fan, Walnut, California 
Frederick B. snite, jr. Notre dame leadership award 
To the student who demonstrates a commitment to the traditional MBA program, it's students, faculty, and administration, presents a sense of purpose for other MBA students, and enhances the MBA program through his/her actions matthew sean Kernan, DeLand, Florida 
Frederick B. snite, jr. spirit of Notre dame award 
To the student who is well regarded by his/her fellow traditional MBA students, possesses the integrity and character consistent with the Notre Dame ideals, demonstrates a willingness to help other students, and displays a commitment to both the Notre Dame and surrounding communities as demonstrated through community service Kristen Keenan cahill, Latham, New York 
the robert Vecchio leadership award 
Award is given at the discretion of the faculty to a consulting or entrepreneurship student who embraces the spirit of Notre Dame and has excelled in developing leadership skills daniel matthew Brach, Granger, Indiana sarah catherine dotzel, South Bend, Indiana 



in the school of architecture 
the henry adams Certificate 
Second ranked graduating student in an accredited undergraduate  professional degree program caitlin marie Baransky, Northport, New York 
the henry adams medal 
First ranked graduating student in an accredited graduate  professional degree program 
to be determined at a later date 
the henry adams medal and Certificate 
First ranked graduating student in an accredited undergraduate professional degree program mark Peter santrach, North Oaks, Minnesota 
the leon Battista alberti award 
To a graduate student for overall academic excellence in a post-professional degree program 
to be determined at a later date 
the alpha rho Chi medal 
To a graduating student who has shown an ability for leadership, performed willing service for the school and gives promise of real, professional merit through attitude and personality 
to be determined at a later date 
amico award 
For design excellence in the fifth-year of study megan elizabeth reineccius, Eagan, Minnesota 
association of licensed architects student merit award 
To the graduating student recognized for exemplary achievements throughout the scholastic year Jacqueline Pagie oberlander, Des Moines, Iowa 
the Noel Blank design award 
Best fifth-year design completed during the fall semester Karen Guerzon delgado, Subic, Philippines daniel Brian sacco, Fairfield, Connecticut 
Bond hall Civic award in architecture and urbanism 
To a graduating student for contributions to a culture of environmental sustainability and civic virtue in the School of Architecture Keaton Glenn Bloom, South Bend, Indiana 
Norman a. Crowe award 
To a graduating student for contributions to the ideas of sustainability in architecture and urbanism matthew david cook, Burr Ridge, Illinois 
dean’s undergraduate award for advanced design excellence in architecture 
To the student with overall excellence in fifth-year thesis in the fall semester mark Peter santrach, North Oaks, Minnesota 
Ferguson and shamamian Graduate Prize 
To a graduating Masters student for excellence in design exhibited in thesis 
to be determined at a later date 
Ferguson and shamamian undergraduate Prize 
Awarded to a fifth-year student in the Bachelor of Architecture Program for overall excellence in classical design exhibited throughout the course of study caitlin marie Baransky, Northport, New York 
jane jacobs award 
For demonstrated commitment to community building and urban planning ha min Joo, Seoul, Republic of Korea 
andrew F. kervick award 
Awarded to the student of the school whose work in design and drawing is of the highest merit colin William Thomson Patience, Apple Valley, Minnesota 
Paris, rome, athens Prize 
For scope exploration and quality of individual building design successfully uniting architecture and urban design Jesús Javier Pérez, Covina, California 
the Gertrude s. sollitt award 
To the student who submits the best work as a solution to a special problem in structure assigned in the scholastic year marc Jacob desantis, Dallas, Texas 
the ralph thomas sollitt award 
To the student in the School of Architecture who submits the best design as a solution to the thesis architecture problem maricruz menchero fernandez, San Antonio, Texas 
st. joseph award in Furniture design 
To the furniture design student best resolving issues of concept, design, and craftsmanship 
to be determined at a later date 
liang ssu-Ch’eng award 
For excellence in non-western architecture Karen Guerzon delgado, Subic, Philippines 
tau sigma delta honor society Bronze medal 
Awarded by the individual chapter of the Tau Sigma Delta Society to a fifth-year student who has demonstrated excellence in design taylor Pfarr stein, Hilliard, Ohio 
alvarez-diaz Villalon award 
For architectural excellence in sustainability 
to be determined at a later date 



in the university 
the Chicago Navy league award 
To the Navy Option midshipman graduate who has exemplified the Navy’s core values of honor, courage, and commitment and has served in one of the senior midshipman staff positions during the past year christopher Thomas Patterson, Andover, New Jersey 
Chief of Naval Operations distinguished midshipman Graduate 
Award to honor one graduating midshipman at each NROTC unit, who demonstrates the highest standards of leadership, academic and military performance tyler earl Thomas, Parker, Colorado 
detachment 225 Commander’s leadership award 
To the outstanding Air Force ROTC senior with the highest combined merit of character, leadership, and officer potential Jordan scott hoover, Chesterton, Indiana 
the Patrick dixon award 
To the outstanding Army ROTC cadet at Notre Dame for the past school year sean erick Kelly, Northfield, Illinois 
the Noel a. dube memorial award 
To the Air Force ROTC Arnold Air Society senior who consistently has demonstrated outstanding leadership and contributed the most toward espirit de corps and morale in the cadet group margaret mc intosh armstrong, O'Fallon, Illinois 
easby-smith award 
To the midshipman graduate who has exemplified the core values of integrity, service, and leadership and has served in one of the senior midshipman staff positions during the past year michael francis falvey, Plymouth, Michigan 
the Gallagher-snider award 
To the midshipman graduate who has an outstanding record in academic achievement, superior military bearing, and exceptional leadership and physical fitness throughout their four years at Notre Dame david John murphy, Alpharetta, Georgia 
the Patrick l. haley award 
To the ROTC cadet who displays moral courage, selfless service, and excellence in U.S. Army training management christopher york lillie, Rochester, Michigan 
the Captain mcGurty award 
To the midshipman graduate who has exemplified the leadership and service traits of a naval officer and has served in one of the senior midshipman staff positions during the past year Thomas Jefferson catalano, Louisville, Kentucky 
the Naimoli award 
To the senior midshipman demonstrating, without fanfare, superior dedication and effort in academic achievement, student activities, and leaderhship throughout four years as an NROTC midshipman murphy Patrick lester, South Dartmouth, Massachusetts 
Colonel Brian C. regan award 
To the Marine Option midshipman first class who has made an outstanding record in academic achievement, student activities, and leadership qualities throughout four years as an NROTC candidate Justin robert rumps ii, Olathe, Kansas 
the Captain Paul roberge memorial award 
To the outstanding Air Force ROTC senior cadet that exemplifies the Air Force Core Value of integrity, service before self and excellence in all we do Jordan scott hoover, Chesterton, Indiana 
the strake award 
To the midshipman first class who has made an outstanding record in academic achievement, in student activities, and in leadership qualities throughout four years as an NROTC candidate tyler earl Thomas, Parker, Colorado 


Ceremonial garments worn at academic functions take their meaning from the original centers of learning of the Western world in the Church of the Middle Ages. Caps, hoods, and gowns of the early students and monks have been held through the centuries to be traditionally symbolic of the scholarly devotion so basic to education and to the deliberate and orderly evolution of knowledge. 
The introduction of classical studies, the gradual rise of the great universities across Europe, and the ever-increasing awareness of the decisive role of education in the entire development of civilization influenced leaders among academicians in their desire for a singular identity. In the attempt to create this differentiation, educators fell upon the medieval system of classic heraldry, whereby the coat of arms, assorted ornamental trappings, and patterns of colorful design had been adopted to denote the distinctive character of designated chivalric orders.  The function of “pedagogical heraldry” became, then, simply identification. As such, measures were taken to signify through distinctive markings on the academician’s attire the institution that had granted the degree, the field of learning in which the degree had been earned, and the level of the degree-bachelor, master or doctorate. 
Of the three pieces of academic attire, the cap, the gown, and the hood, it is the hood that offers the most abundant and most readily discernable information about its owner. The inner lining of the hood identifies the institution at which the individual earned the degree.  Some schools have adopted two-color patterns and introduced chevrons and bars in various designs to set themselves apart from other institutions.  The velvet trim bordering the hood indicates the major field of learning, or faculty, in which the degree has been earned. A final feature of the hood concerns its length and width and distinguishes further between holders of bachelor’s, master’s, and doctor’s degrees.  The length of the hood for the bachelor’s degree is three feet, closed at the bottom, and the velvet border is two inches.  At Notre Dame, those individuals receiving a bachelor’s degree do not wear a hood. A master’s degree holder has a hood three and one half feet in length with a three inch wide border, and is slit at the bottom. Those individuals with a doctorate degree wear a hood four feet in length, open at the bottom, with a five inch border. 
The gown is usually black in color but some American universities, including Notre Dame, have adopted distinctive colors for their robes. Notre Dame doctorate degree robes are blue, reflecting one of its official colors. 
The cut of the gown aids in differentiating between the three levels of degrees.  The bachelor’s gown is relatively simple and falls in straight lines from an elaborate yoke. It may be recognized most readily by the long, pointed sleeves. The master’s gown is somewhat fuller and bears no adornment.  The sleeves are oblong in shape and open at the wrist, with the rear part of the oblong square cut while the front edge has a cutaway arc. The doctor’s gown is more elaborate with velvet panels down the front and around the neck of the garment.  The sleeves are bell-shaped at the end and have three bars of the same material as the front panels at the upper portion of the arm.  It is cut rather full and may be ornamental in color.  Notre Dame’s doctoral gown has royal blue velvet front panels with the University’s shield embroidered in gold.  The royal blue sleeve chevrons are outlined in gold. 
The mortarboard or Oxford-type cap has been adopted throughout most universities in the United States, although Notre Dame’s doctoral cap is a royal blue tam.  Colored tassels are usually worn by holders of the bachelor’s and master’s degrees. These denote the field of learning. The list on the next page indicates the tassel colors.  Gold tassels are reserved for those with doctorate degrees and governing officers of educational institutions. 



Tassel Colors 
ARCHITECTURE ....................................................Lilac ARTS, LETTERS, HUMANITIES..........................White COMMERCE, ACCOUNTANCY, BUSINESS ..............................................................Drab NON-PROFIT ADMINISTRATION (MASTER) EDUCATION (ACE) ...................................... Light Blue EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION ...................... White ENGINEERING.................................................. Orange FINE ARTS .......................................................... Brown LAW ..................................................................... Purple SCIENCE ................................................. Golden Yellow THEOLOGY AND SACRED MUSIC ...................Scarlet 
Tassels are worn on the right side and shifted to the left after the degree has been conferred. 


our time at notre dame will never be forgotten. The senior legacy is a two-part campaign involving the senior class. most importantly, it is an effort to create an appreciation for the significant role alumni support plays in making our experiences at notre dame possible. about 40,000 alumni give back to the university every year, not merely because of personal relationships, but because they want to ensure that future generations of students will share in the same great notre dame experience.
in expressing our gratitude, the senior legacy calls upon the senior class to make a three-year pledge to the university. Whether giving back means joiningthe corby society or making a smaller pledge, every person can make an impact. our goal is to have the entire senior class participate, coming together one last time in remembrance of the amazing memories we have made at notre dame. 



the PresideNtial medal 
The Presidential medal was introduced at the inauguration of notre dame’s 16th President, the reverend edward a. malloy, c.s.c. The medal, struck in bronze and plated in gold, was made by the medallic art company, danbury, connecticut. 
The seal of the university forms the center of the medal and is mounted in relief against a larger cross representing the congregation of holy cross, the religious community which founded the university in 1842. in traditional heraldry, the shield unsupported and central in the seal is appropriate for an institution of learning. at the base of the shield are two waves which symbolize the waves of saint mary’s lake on whose shores the university was founded. in the upper left, the six-pointed star, considered the perfect form, signifies “star of the sea,” a title accorded the virgin mary for whom notre dame is named. a cross symbolizes christianity.  The open book, emblematic of education, is inscribed with the latin words, “Vita, Dulcedo, Spes,” or “our life, our sweetness, and our hope.” These words, first addressed to our lady by saint Bernard, are taken from the familiar prayer, “Salve Regina,” or “hail holy Queen.” 


the uNiVersity maCe 
The academic scepter, or mace, was one of the earliest distinctive signs of medieval university officials. The mace was originally a wooden staff carried by royal messengers. The early wooden staff on the university beadle, a subaltern official, evolved in the 14th century into an elaborate silver mace. it was carried by the beadle during processions and graduation ceremonies, and was displayed as a symbol to command order during classes. in the 15th century it became symbolic of academic dignity. an essential part of the mace was the staff or cylindrical rod (tibia), originally a tube of silver filled with wood or some other base materials. The staff, divided into several sections, was held together by a ring-shaped excrescence (nodus). The staff was crowned with a bell-shaped head (caput); at the base was a finial (membrum terminale). 
The notre dame mace was designed and executed by the late reverend anthony lauck, c.s.c., professor emeritus of art, art history, and design. The bronze caput repeats the university seal found on the Presidential medal, but brings the star outside the shield where its separate rendering emphasizes the patronage of the virgin mary. its shaft is in walnut and the star and the finial bear the university colors gold and blue. 



2014 Unofficial Program.indd 100 5/2/2014 9:21:21 AM 

  Guest seatiNG at NOtre dame stadium 
you may be wondering why you are seated facing the east. many families attending notre dame commencement ceremonies bring loved ones with limited mobility or require wheelchairs. notre dame stadiums only two elevators, which are located on the west side, are available for guests, with accessible seating conveniently located nearby. if needed, the first aid station and medical staff are located underneath the stands, also on the west side of the stadium. 
in addition, please be assured that security is always one of our top priorities at commencement, which is why we stage the ceremonies on the stadiums east side. The Press Box, on the west side houses, police and fire personnel, a first aid coordinator, weather radar, monitors, radio dispatch, and a host of resources to maximize guest safety. We apologize for any inconvenience and appreciate your understanding. 




