DO YOU KNOW
Daitt® Daily 
READ THE ARTICLES
• ON ?. .
THE CHURCH
VOL. 2. NO. 88
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, SATURDAY, MARCH ■ 15,1924
TRICE 4 CENTS '
’Z' AlUIDT TQ I ?au!ding Reads to j
t'AJVlM	Appreciative Group
« 7 A Frsvvn Shakespeare’s “King Richard III” I
‘ /jL 'i-	was the play read by Mr. Frederick I
■ •- '' .  Paulding in Washington hall last।
BALL TICKET SALE I Juggler Movie Issue I DEBATERS LOSE TO
STARTS TUESDAY	— ---- -
The “Movie” issue of The Juggler
was distributed on the campus last
।	.	»	wuauuigwn nan last _	night. This issue, which was due
. , ■ wither nronhPt but Tbursday- Yesterday Mr. Paulding Ball Date. Set As May 23; Tickets on the campus Thursday night, was
I am" no weather prophet, but deIiv Rostn-e>s «c < k BPr tn Pnct Mf) • hininro Mau delayed by trouble at the printers.
ffhen my typewriter behaves like e ^ci Ko^tne s Cyrano de Ber- W GOST 0ZU j JUniOrS May In all departments, it lives up to the
a slow-motion picture, when T read gerae. Both readings were, well	Wear Djns Jimo - I . standard set by previous issues this
poetry with renewed interest, when attended and proved popular with	b J _QQC year. An unusually attractive cov-
I See new beauties on - the boule- the audiences.	.....	A . financialbalancq. of ?995.75 er design in five colors by McElroy,
yard, arid' when I‘enjoy myself by In his portrayal of King Richard to de™te to. Senior Ball activities a.budding artist of Brownson hall
suppressing frequent yawns—then,, he was" especially effective. He was shown in a report submitted is presented.	’
I think, it is-almost spring. Per- frankly professed himself ‘ as dis- to the Senior class by President Don i ’Sket h ’ bv. ™_nnprv
hans you have noticed the same agreeing with those lecturers and Gallagher..at-a meeting m the li-	X .	. y’ -
Stems in your room-mate. . . teachers who explain this p?ay as briu^	' o? mentMn An
31	. ,	-o-	.	a study inremorse MrPadldinn The financial statement does not of ”entl°n- An unusually Jarge
Although ! look with disfavor on said ih part: “The play in which	several matters, of unfin- f “7^
0„e «(ho invariably begins "Oh, Shakespeare intended to depict re- “hed busmess now m the hands .of veiopmenTof The TuXler ov^
ftat reminds me”-1 .will risk your morse was ‘Hamlet,’ hnd the-great the Seneral concessions committee
further; displeasure by. calling dramatist = never repeated. “King the class, and when these reports Xie stuS bodv
back to’mind how. some student; Richard IIP is rather :.a study in are comPIete expected that the T, . y\
now beyond the paternal discipline extreme unrepentance. The despair baIance will be well over $1,000. numbpr chnniY11 ° a ^r.s
fktre Dame, met . and success- of the intellect.” “	Following, the reading of the	TC m9St
W combated a. similar seasonal Mr. Paulding was prevailed upon
attack.	to read . “Cyrano de Bergerac” yes- f presiaenc mat senior Bail	■ ■.	J
'	_0' ■°-'	.	terday because of the many ■ re- ?cket! S°	‘ BULLETIN
It: happened in a Spanish class quests from' students anxioris to	^2.° ?ac\ ^.e date; of .the	'	TIN / /	•
taught by a professor, lately from hear this famed romance. Although baU hT- been set as May 23. In NotreDame Ai?,
.Mexico, who was better versed in the' play is a difficult one to read c°nnectl™ ^h arrangements for :	tre Da®e fjnxs^
grammar than in the . wiles, of any Mr. Paulding handled it in master’ the bal1	Was Iikewise announced	a ° ,c re.ays, according
American student. .Imagine this	ful'style.'	Thethat students desiring to take. St. -po^s over ..the.
lad with a long face confronting, the	cially^was interpreted7	vividly	and	Mal'y’s Siris wil1 have to advise eith-	T.mes w,re jaSl	),(	Not;.e
professor with a conversation some^ well. -'lnterp ' “ .T’ er Don Gallagher or Pinky O’Boyle »“*? •	debat.ng team
thing-like, this:;	;	•	whom they have, invited before	a*so,iost to Indiana	by reports
“Professor, ‘ I have the spring	w? min	/iin	uaivaa^i..	Wednesday so that the necessary : -v,a ‘he same wire.
(says the proD) .that is very DATE OE.-.M
bad. You should : go at < once to	nrirffW	IO	.Class pm problems then received	VV DElil U
the infirmary. That.-is, quite, see-	:	KKV||F,	( H ANliH	attenti°n, eight pins being uncalled
ri-ous ”	* VJU	lu	vlirln UEil/	for at this time. Charles Robrecht,	A PIT 1 ft/ICM
.	.0- -0-	■	“ chairman of the pin.committee, will TnWll IfiAtk IVO
So, curious reader, I can best ex- TKurSdayi "; M	Date* h°ld. thes® P1?5 for seniors until	——
plain the lack of scandal lately in	■ q' ;n T n- i„i_rirt’ April 1. in ,his room, 345 Corby, nijnn Tjmg QW VafSltV
two ways:; my discovery of spring oWIlt 10 BO IHlOFlOGUtOrj and those that are not called for at ’’P6 W* . »a^
in the air, and the fact that, so ; New Sonks Introduced. that time will be returned to the ■ Barron ano Judge Are -
many of the . boys are giving .up	' Local StaFV :	"
scandal and gossip during this sea- The ^Absurdities of-1924, the . , The class also voted to make no ' < LUbd* y’dlbi .
son. i And that explains the why Production of the Monogram club, (Continued on Page 4.),	The yearling track team was de-
of -my, resting on location, as it will .Jie presented on Thursday, . ;	_____-------- . feated in;a dual meet-with the run-
" :were.“>I-whisper-to-you-an.-open-se-_ ~~arcb instead of . the,, coming	y———<■—»—»£ ners from Western State Normal at
i cret: I may take a trip t6 South M°^ay\a^eywuSly.-plarifie^^^^^
. America' fot my health. • Incident ;° cl?ck : Washington hall. The i ( ' 1	: The final score was 50-4,5. . Thri
tally, the'ice onthe lakeI-'is melting. Production this, year will?ndt: be s QUESTIONNAIRE "I meet, like the one. with Wisconsin
, ,;• : • _0_ - _0'.F	' merely, a .minstrel, .as/ m former I .;.	.	.1 last-Saturday, was' decided by the'
- News comes from	years’ but a	consisting 'of |	, • :	what recosnU relay'race, the “only difference
election’of Bob Worth .as’.president' skits ,and/acts portraying especial^ J What aske^ Wh^	mg that the Frosh lost where the
of the Notre Dame "Radio associa- llfe: at Notre ’Dame- The whole	y®"-tm2?k a “arL^Pfe‘! varsity won.	'
tion, cSby chapter. ? Bob is. the ^ow is^being kept.secret. as far as	debatesj	Severa! of the freshmen .turned
proud possessor of the only operat- is.possible/.and.very-little of it.is lsnouI{1 receive. ; .	। in brilliant performances in their
ing collection :of tubes in Corby, known. ^Jpe Casasanta,.	,. . - j respective -events.; - Barron .of the
. The./other? three experts held a Engels - George Koch, Frank Kolars, j -■J™ Boland, Comm. I, Carroll: 1 Frosh was the individual, high point
meeting lately mt which Robert was and Vic Labetz^ wrote .the: songs, .Debaters should receive some | man, winning; both the high and.
tossed,.the 'crown."PEntertainment" ^usm .and .words; for: the. revue. !?ewar^ s?ch a® a ;m®dal or ,aI Jow?hurdles ..in. commanding fash-,
atthe conference was in-the'nature : Stepping .Along ~and/r. Old Notre [jeweled pin.. They take .an act-j jon<: His time.in both events was.
of a whistling ''solo, ;• heard’over Dame/, My Home .Sweet; Home, . are ? jve ,.pgrt ,m school affairs. ands >;05 1-5, seconds, bettering the time
radio ' ? -	'	’ '	' " 1 .two songs to .be featured., Norbert {should be - recognized. .: ; . . . J made’in the varsity 'meet by 2-5 of
*:■ j .-' 0 I b? ; '; •’ Engles, wrote,-,the -fir§t and Vince I . J- A. Withey, Litt. B. II, Ba- j a second.	:
A stauiich'deieri'der of "the' East Fagin the;second, .witri.Vic.-Labet^	[din: . “Other schools have.'solved J-	- Next to’Barrori," the	the
andabublicity expert «for Day stu- writing the. music, for both;	f this problem	by awardmg	meet was Charlie Judge. -Judge
dents confides this' to my attentive' : The chorus will; :be; composed of	• members of	.their debating 1	won. the mile , run'in the fast	time'
ear: “j. Raymond Hunt,'Day Dog ’members "of the Monogram club,	jteams, medals	or pins of some[.	4.32 .145; ; He -also"ran a	fine
and. defender of the . News-Times, and Rockne is" iri charge. .. All the	TsJS .1S r??e race, in the half mile run and was
believes in nuttirig his journalistic features! are said to .be veryramus-	W	A.1 j v6?!- b?ateri out <of first place by about
ability, to the-test. When he re- ing and clever. Jim Swift is ex- ssort;Of recognition?haria debat-- two.feet.; Riley also won . .two
ceives fewer than; three letters a pected to be the; .interlocutor, 1W teaJP;c.a\£et is, of course, | places, and .would perhaps have; won
day feels he’is getting-old? He arid Crowley,.;Enright? and “Rip” 1th®. enthusiastic support, of the? the 40-yard dash with a good start,
is said.to have a regular picture Miller are scheduled to act as end Pchoob, ..that, .it represents. If a Walker of Western State equalled
gallery in .his room.- Incidentally/ men. Harvey/Brown, captain of :jthjey receive .this they would not! the gym record in the 40-yard dash
all photos are of the ‘fair’ type'and this year’s football, tearii, and pres- :worry about,material rewards.ofJ . when he won the: race iri :04 2-5.
all are from Rhode Island.” ? dent of the Monogram club,is ija“J	‘ c • I His team-mate, Klaassee, made fast
' .“.b-1’	managing;, the'production. PractiT	j’i*time	in the 880 and won , the event
But that is riotlhe worst/ " I am	cally .every ..wearer/ of the N.! D:	j/ri?:;. ?. think they	shouM	-n 2:03--2-5. Ari ’interesting-dual
told?■ that.'Hunt: wears—publicly	will participate, in-the show and it	r^cogaltw	was	fought for first place in the
arid with no malace/aforethought-^-:	is expected to outshine all previous.	|think.like	a.	pin or a	ring	wouldj	high	jump between Richards and
bickers! A.nd with?-golf hunting productions..? . . / ,	.	-/ J; Sullivan., 7 Richards .finally? won
•lill in the future. . Never mind, J.. .	--:“ !&„ C?"”?y’ J?ur' -1’leap of 5
Kentucky Club Hears	! (continued on Page 4.)
r F *1 flj Kt - J' ’ other students; flt’s/Hard to find	1
military * anWoofis^an^" engineer- “' :	h^cNcLtnCLYQ. , something,, appropriate .to \ ’ offer FrosA Track Squad
in- ®ant^ / .; . ; .S;. . > .The "Rev. -George McNamara?C.	debaters."‘If‘-swimming;arid ten-1	' A
ngb00ts\. \ -	- S. C., assistant librarian at! the 1 nis are to " be' listed' as. minor J' Awarded Dlumerals
•I hit a-	cr ri.Ti	'VniV®rsUy».-:waS;''a."Speaker, at. the j sports, why not,, give, the same? . Twenty-three •• 'freshmen' were
.^0U 'L- i?S, X smoker given by the-Kentucky club, j recognition to :those"bn the de-: awarded,their numerals /.for their
Thursday, night iri the-.Kable ban- .1 bating teams?-the debaters have I work/during the'indoor; track sea-
£ i L- .	.	quot rd?,.	.	/ .	a more dillieull task and it gains son which has just closed. The
Nation and fedings^of'the accused, Father McNamara,: who7is a na- ! more publicity for the Uhiver- f	'J®
on the । sity.’ .	.	' -	1 that; they did an, the final interhall
S ™tilS™’SrWt*l Sn^eh??? 1.'	B. !, Fresh,! traek meetjast Sunday ,, ,
Nation' from-Ft. Wayne? I am iri- Swishes the individual of the Blue- Lman? They.-should receive-some [ , Th® freshmen who .did notrmake
deed? a nublic-spirited citizen; ’ ' grass’ State. In a very interesting i??bol?stic	to that j them during the
/, i . -o- -d-	way he recounted the experiences fSiven to the DAILY men; This? ave another chance to make - them
Paul Hoeffler has arinounced the- of those men who were the first !to- '? credit should be in proportion .to J the outdoor track season which
aViyal of several .new, warm,: and organize^' state group bn the cam- '	hPurs..‘ sPe;nt „ ^'1, tftioris^arriSXF"^^^
vatiegated records for his Victrola.: Pus lnto^... the present Kentucky	j	.. J. ,, mv”8-S	t.
‘A/concert every : day,” is Paul’s club.« In concluding :his talk, Fath- [.«?*?•following freshmeii were
Mto ... . and you’re-welcome, I’m er McNamara asked for a revival t , T^ey sbould receive something'? awaTded numerals: W. McDonald,
told. -	Of the :oIfj spirit and loyalty of the 1to let Pe°PIe know they' are "ac-T	/. "-Conroy; ' Nyikos, G.
,	o . .	• " club"• : -	> jtive" in debatingL^either a'pin:or-RJley,‘’Frye?Sullivan,"'Moore?-Judge/
'stop! Look/ " rit'en! The Mack Walter ! Clement,, attorney of i	j
fan	i	. .. Qnnfk -Rn/ri	j nized by .monograms,, and debat-1 JNuity, Dalmadge, Masterson, C.
. orga^zer and | ers should receive ’. something! McDonald?Prelli?Wilheim, E. Grif-
. (ConHnMA e. ^entucky C^ub, j characteristic* of debating’.”' ! f fin? Barrori?Mayer?Mullin, Bolarid,:
I... “ (Continued on-Page,4.)-	McCafferty.'
[ WESTERN RESERVE
Contest Judged by Presentation;
Colby College Next
Opponent.
Notre Dame’s debaters lost last
night for the first time during the •
present season to Western Reserve
University of Cleveland in the third
of the intercollegiate debates held
in Washington hall. / The contest
was well handled by both teams, the
awarding of the victory was secured
by the, Clevelajnd debaters on a .
very slight margin...
In the question Resolved: That
the United States should enter the.
World Court, Notre Dame support-
ed the affirmative arid. Western Re-
serve. riiaintained the- negative. .
Paul Breen, Philip Moore, arid Ben-
jamin Piser with Sydney Eder as •
alternate represented Notre Dame.
Adelbert W. Thomas, -Cyril Mc-
I Frederick arid Depew .Freer, repre-
sented Western. Reserve.
• Professore Walter. Q. Lager- ,
quist, of the Finance ■ Department
of Northwestern University, in. stat-
ing his decision, said that, his judg-
ment was on the manner of presen-
tation, not upon the subject matter.
He was the only judge of the de7
bate.	.’
Professor William Farrell, of
Notre" Dame, was the chairman. He
opened4 the program’ with a’ short
talk’on the subject of the evening’s
discussion and commended on the
new plan used throughout the coun-
try of haying but a’single judge in
place of three or five that were for-
, merly used. Helheri introduced the
speakers ;pf both -teams and . gave-____
. the manner, that the teams.; would .;
‘ present .their argument. . .	,
Professor Farrell also ; made > the
important., announcement, that the,
well-known debating team of Colby
College of Maine had been recently
secured^ to. close the present sea-
son in • Washington hall on the
World- Court, question two; weeks
from last night. After the debaters
had given their respective argu-
ments, Professor Farrell, " while
waiting for the decision of the-judge \	•
again- spoke briefly; complimenting'
the men on. their debating- ability
arid upon the art of public speak-
ing/’	'?■■■ -■	■•:■■■/ ■■
In losing : last * night’s ; contest,
Notre . Dame’s. negative team lost
none of Jits previous; glory. . Their
opponents : are ariiong the best of
the . debating, teams, of. the,-.middle.
west;,- .the Reserve debaters having -
compiled a record that; is much ad-;
mired by many, other schools., . All ; “
three forensic artists of both teams \
spoke in a highly creditable man- . .
rier riiaking the'. selection of the
best riiari bn each ‘ team ’ a rather
difficult task..
The victors'., in, presenting ’their
side of the question played special .
emphasis upon the facts of the sub-
ject in so1 far as they ’ claimed that
the World Court, was unnecessary.'
to the; future existence of the
United । States, " that such entry
would be unsafe- and;; probably;
harmful to the .nation .as-a-whole
and also that (the proposed step :
was' useless as the • court?’lacked -
o-
o-
club.
tat! .Beware /... . beware . . ... the
Wes/of March! Soothsays ?
\ mr?grundy.?
many. of the ..necessary essentials ,
that were necessary 1 for “ its exis-
tence and worths - .	7 •’	;
Notre. Dame ingiving tiie , affirm-
ative side stressed the necessity of
such a union with the world powers;' •
in the matter of entering the World
Court, proved that such a court was
not some; wild dream of a fanatical .
politician arid demonstrated that it
was the only practical solution of
the present condition;. They also
mentioned the effect of the , public-
ity.' that the court, would give' on
matters ‘,-qf. international impor-
tance,, and the value.arid necessity" '
of- a well organized, international;
opinion. The subject of. interna-,
tiorial. law and the effect that the
world court would have upon it was ..
discussed by the affirmative? ’	.	'
NOTRE DAME DAILY
Saturday, March 15, 19^, '
MOTMC DAME DAILY
University of Notre Dame official daily paper, published every morning except
Monday, Wednesday and Friday during the academic year by the Notre Dame Daily
, Company, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Entered as second class matter at the post office of Notre Dame, Ind.
Subscription rate, 14.00 per year; by mail, 14.50. Single copies, four cents,
EDITORIAL STAFF
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF...../.............................  ....HARRY	_A. McGUIRE,’25
Editorial Staff—Harry Flannery, *23; Henry Fannan, ’24; James Hayes, 24; John
Brennan, ’24; Frank Kolars, ’24; Jack Scallan, ’25 ; Eugene. Noon, 24; Paul
Funk, ’24; Ray Cunningham, ’25.	;	’	„ v
Editors.............................Gerald Lyons,24; Laurence G. Kelly, 25
Editors .........................John	Stoeckley, ’25; Ray Cunningham, ’25
Terence Donahue,’27 ; John Gallagher,’26
_____Editor-..../------------------------------------------...-.-To™ goman.;25
Literary Editor ...	.....—-.............-.....-.....Dennis J. O Neill, 26
Dramatic Editors""""...................  Paul	C. Martin,’24; Eustace Cullinan/25
Bulletin Editor ' ..... .............-...................Charles McGonagle, 24
Assistant NighVEditoVs^ —.................-Mark devils. ’27 ; Robert Maher ’25/
Charles Crawford, 27 ; John Snakard, 25
Reporters—Rupert Wentworth, Lester Grady, Mark Nevils, Ray Flannigan, Carlos
Lane, Jr., Jay Fleming, Joseph Navarre, Roy Chauvin, Don Cunningham, Por-
ter Wittick, Franklin Conway, John Purcell, and Jack Flynn.
News
Night
Sport
This Issue .
Night Editor ..........  John	A. Gallagher Assistant ......................Mark	Nevils
BUSINESS STAFF
BUSINESS MANAGER --------------------:...................J0HN N. ST AN^TON 24
Local Advertising Manager —.......—......-......-.............  Corbin	Patrick, 26
Foreign Advertising Manager -......................—........JanrltnAb	>26
Circulation Manager .......................................AkX ’’2G
Distribution Manager ,..............................—Jo hn Worde n Kane, 2
Assistant Local Advertising Managers---- Michael Reddington, 26, George J. Schill, 27
Advertising’Assistants—Edward E. O’Brien, Alfred J. Diebold, Jr.,’Henry J. Massman,
Walter J. Kennedy, Frank, Doyle, H. Edwin MacLannan, Jack Loftus, George
I Meade.	■	. .	.	. —
Distribution Assistants—Tom O’Connor, Errol Jones, F. Andrews, Joseph Szanyi.
Frank Bischoff, P. Dillakamp, C. Dickerson. A. Nanovic.
PROFOUND SHALLOWNESS
The deliberate seriousness with which men discuss the obvious
and arrive at platitudinous conclusions, is amusing. Almost anywhere
two men may be heard talking—oftentimes we are one of the two—
arid by the expressions of faces and the gestures of hands, one may
well'suppose they are speaking iriomentous wisdom. But we listen
and hear them state the epoch-making truth that it is colder in the
northern states than' in those farther south', that cold weather in Clii-
' cago is worse than cold weather in Minnesota, that that is because of
' the proximity of-the lakes, and .. . . . . ...
Such a two wrinkle brows over the state of the weather, which to
most men means nothing, the number of autos that pass a certain spot,
the fact that there, is too much crime in Chicago and it must be stopped,
or any subject upon which there is usually but one opinion, but which
is always considered gravely.	.	< ,
Down in the lecture hall we ,listen to a candidate for office. He
— ..promises to	traditions of_our. country.”,, _Hc. says_he..is,
“for America first,” that lie will be guided in all things by “the fixed
star of Americanism,” and that he believes in reduced taxes, in clean
government, and in justice. After each statement, cheers arise. For
his-vociferous vacuums people award him applause and votes.
In such situation, praise be to Chestertoniaris.
DIRECTED ENERGY
A letter appeared in the last issue of the DAILY in which the
writer advocated directing the energy«which now goes toward filling
the column representing student opinion to assisting the DAILY staff
in their search for news. It is a sentiment with which the reportorial
staff is in full accord for, importarit as expression of opinion is, the
•, primary function of any publication iaspiring to the name “newspaper”
must be to give the news. No matter how efficient a group of reporters
/nay be, and reporters who are burdened with an excess of class work,
who are not paid for their services, can not devote as much time as they
should or as they would like to to their duties on the DAILY, they
cannot get all the news without cooperation from all concerned.
' The heads of various campus activities, those prominent, in state
clubs, and anyone who sees a good story in the offing can do no better
service to his paper than to let those in charge know of it. The coop-
eration will be appreciated and1 the result will be a newspaper which
is truly representative of Notre Dame.
Fishermen used to boast about what they brought back; now they
brag about what they took along, j \	.
The replies we think , of after the battle would have made good
repartee during the fight.
Clear water is drawn from deep wells; clear thoughts from pro-
found minds. .	/	:	:
. Temperament is the uncut stone which must be chiseled and ham-
mered before it becomes the cornerstone of character.	-. T
Barney Google to Repay Debi to Notre Dame
by telling Secret of Ptiddle Jumper Invention
"in influencing the outdoor life at
Notre Dame, and arrangements are
Mr. Barney Google, inventer of
the . puddle jumper, and known
throughout the country/as the own-
er. of Spark Plug, the cross coun-,
try race-horse, has recently offered
to. make known to the students of
Notre. JDame, the hitherto secret
construction arid mechanism of his
famous ptiddle hurdler. Mr. Goo-
,, gle stated that the reason for his
decisiori in this, regard was one . of
gratitude, Notre Dame being the
inspiration for the invention of his
. machine. This’ offer will undoubt-
edly: be snatched up immediately
-by every student ‘ ori the campus,
for reasons which, are only too .eyi-
. dent. . The effects rif his offer are
expected to' be almost revolutionary
THE CHURCH OF OUR LADY OF THE
SACRED HEART AT NOTRE DAME
(Continued from Last Issue.)
being . made by officials of the Uni-
versity with the police department
of South Bend,for traffic cops.to be
placed at, such places as may after-
ward seem necessary. .	• .
This change, will influence not
only the traffic ,but adjustments are
also being made in the spotting
field. Coach Rockne stated-yesterT
day that not only is a puddle jump-
ing football .team possible, but he
feels certain that in time all teams
will be'thus equipped. He is; at
present. negotiating with other
schools: for puddle jumping races,
in connection with the track meets.-
Epistle side—reading from Ber-
mini altai’ to the right.
Devotion to the Sacred Heart.,
No. 1. Behold the Heart that has
loved men so much.
No. 2. Apparition of the Blessed
Virgin to St. Margaret Mary.
No. 3. The Vow to Sacred Heart
of Mary. Bishop of Marseilles.
‘No. 4. . Pope Clement proclaim-
ing devotion to Sacred Heart: in
Poland.
No. 5. Devout France Relying
on the Sacred Heart.
No. G. Devotion of Religious
Orders to the Sacred Heart of Je-
sus and Mary.
Gospel side—reading from the
right toward the Bernini altar.
Scenes from the Life of Christ.
No. 1. The Nativity. •	,
N. 2. The Last Supper.
No. 3. The Prayer in the Gar-
den ' of Gethsemane.
No. 4. The Crucifixion.
. No. 5. The Descent from the
Cross.
■ N. 6. Doubting Thoriias, touch-
ing the side of Jesus.
Third Apsidal Chapel on Gospel
Side.
Reading from right to. left; first
above, next below.
No. 1. St. Michael and the
Dragon.
No. 2. St. Michael.
No. 3. St. Peter led from pris-
ori.
Nd. 4. Guardian Angel. •
No. 5. Angel ; Announcing Pa-
ternity to St. Zachary (father of
St. John the Baptist).
Our Lady of Victory Chapel,
(reading' from right to;left).
1.	' Lepanto (Don Juari of Aus-
tria against Turks).
2.	Lepanto.
3.	Louis XIII founding the
chapel to Our Lady of Victory,
1629, ■
4.	Louis XIII ^of France plan-
ning a church.
5.	< Founding of the Sodality in
honor of the Immaculate Heart of
the Blessed Virgin .in .the—Church,
of dur Lady of Victory, Paris7
1736	 - .
Holy Cross Chapel (Tabernacle
contains Relic of the True Cross). ,
1. First station: Jesus is made
to Bear His Cross.
,2. Third■ Station of the Cross:
Jesus falls for the first time.
3.	Fourth Station: Jesus meets
His Afflicted Mother.
4.	Seventh Station: Jesus Falls
the Second Time.
5.	Sixth 7 Station: Veronica
Wipes the'Face of Jesus.
6.	Ninth Station: Jesus Falls
the Third Time.
In the main entrance to the
Church there, are two windows—
Purgatory (on the left) and the
Resurrection . (on the right). ....
The Stations, of the Cross and
the frescoes in the Church are the
work of Luigi Gregori (1819-
1896),. who lived at Notre Dame
from 1774 to 1891. The fourth
and twelfth stations are the most
appealing; ' the twelfth and thir-
teenth were exhibited at the
World’s Columbian Exposition,
Chicago, 1893;.-while a preliminary
sketch of the fourteenth (showing
Gregori’s approach to this problem);
hangs in the office of the Reference
Librarian in Lemonnier. . In the
Fifth . Station Gregori pictured a
Brother of Holy Cross Community
as Simon of Cyrene.
The Frescoes in the Transept
■ Epistle Side: ...
, The Nativity of the Blessed Vir-
gin ,(St. Joachim and, St. Anne). ’
Beneath:	. : .
1.	The Child Mary tends flowers
in garden while St. Anne, her, moth-
er, sits' near reading a scroll.
2.	St. Anne, teaches the Child
Mary to pray.
■ The Presentation of the Blessed
Virgin in the’ Temple.
Beneath: The Child Mary and
her parents. preparing for the Pre-
sentation.
■ The Marriage, of the Blessed Vir-
gin in the Temple. (In this picture
Gregori painted himself (in grey),
his wife, his daughter, and a re-
jected suitor of his wife’s, who is
breaking a wand.) /
Beneath: Life of the Blessed
Virgin in the Temple.
1., Embroidering tapestry.
2. Chanting, the praise of God,
assisted by angels.
The Annunciation.
Beneath: Angel dispelling Jo-
seph’s doubts and fears.
Gospel Side:
The Visitation—Mary and Eliza-
beth embrace. St. Joseph leans
upon a staff. St. Zachary, Eliza-
beth’s husband, father of St. John,
bids them enter.
Beneath: St.. John ^he Baptist
(infant) and women.
The' Nativity of Christ—remark-
able for chiaroscuro effect.
Beneath:
1.	Angels announcing the Birth
to shepherds.
2.	The Magi offer gifts..
The Presentation of Our Lord in
the Temple—The Blessed Virgin
gives him' to Simeon. Anna the
Prophetess looks on. St. Joseph
(on the right) holds turtle doves.
To.the left of Simeon are,two fig-
ures representing the friendship
of Father. Lemonnier and another
at Notre Dame.
Beneath:
, 1. The Flight-into Egypt.
2..	The Child Jesus and the Doc-
tors.
The- Assumption of the Blessed
Virgin into Heaven. .
Beneath: Apostles take last
glimpse of their departing Mother.
On the ceiling of the center of
the transept in mosaic, with gold
background the life-size figures of
the prophets: Moses (tablet of
laws—s. w.), David (harp—n. e.),
Jeremiah (scroll—s. e.), and Dan-
iel (writing—n. w.) and of the
evangelists: Matthew (accompan-
ied by a man—s. w.), Mark (lion—
s. e.), Luke (artist, ox—n. e.), and
John (eagle—n. w.).	•
Frescoes above the Main Altar:
.Gospel side-—Sacred Heart of
Jesus, St. Gregory VII (Pope
Hildebrand) with dove at ear, St.
Ignatius Loyola (“Ad majorem Dei
gloriam”); . epistle side—-Sacred
Heart of Mary, Sf. Augustine—
“Tolle et lege,” St. Benedict.
Frescoes on wall of the Nave
(beginning...at)- Altarread toward
"do'orTrif 'gbspeb sideyf . Sts.~Agries,
Rose of Lima (first American saint)
Aloysius, Stanislaus, ' Dominic,
Francis of Assisi, Bernard, Anthony
the Hermit, and Appolonia. (Be-
ginning at altar read toward door
on epistle side): Sts. Cecilia, Lu-
cia, Bonaventure, Thomas Aquinas,
Benedict Labre, Alexis, Mary Mag-
dalene, Paul the Hermit (these last
two exquisite in. detail), and John
the Baptist. ,
On the left of the organ‘we have
the most beautiful painting in the
church—that of the serpents1 at-
tacking the children of Israel in
the desert while Moses' points to
the brazen serpent that they may
look and be healed. On the op-
posite side of the organ a mural
of the same size—“Christ Walk-
ing on the,Water.” St. Peter, of
faltering faith, is. partially /sub-
VK


AS
IS
hit

"Best Paid Hard Work in the World’9
IS the way a John Hancock salesman described
his work. He.is a college graduate and in five-
years has put himself at the very top of his
business. He never yet has called upon a pros-
pect without a previous appointment. The best life
insurance salesmen today work on that plan, making
it a business of dignity, such as any worthy and ambi-
tious College graduate can find satisfying to his mental
needs, and highly remunerative as well.
The man above quoted is the John Hancock’s
youngest general agent. This shows what college
graduates of.the right type.can do in this business,
how they can build up earning power and at the
same time provide for an accumulated competence
for the years to come.
Graduation is a vital period in your life and you
are j i_e to ’L°ld to the business you start in. It
would be well before making /a definite decision to
inquire into life insurance as a career. Address,
Agency Department.”
If
Fl
^Life Insurance Company^—
- _	Boston. Massachusetts
^i^)~oneyearsin business, How insuring One Billion Seven Hundred
l ■_	Million Dollars in policies on 3,250,000 lives .
Don’t Wail About It
Write About It
This is your column
Editor, NOTRE DAME DAILY:
We read with more than ordinary
interest, and not a little amuse-
ment, Mr. Grant’s humorous letter
in Thursday’s DAILY. One might
expect a squawk'like that from a
baby whose toy has been put away
for the night, but one should not
expect it from a graduate of this
university . who has had his- own
ideas and ideals opposed.
We saw that picture and next tn
“Out of the Depths,” shown last
year in Washington hall, “The Si-
lent Command” is the best example
of Nickelodeon Nothingness that
has been released since John Bun-
ny last wiped custard pie from his
good natured and well nurtured
countenance.
Of course a critic must be fair
and clever; yet, he must be even as
fair as he is clever. Mr. Grant ac-
knowledges that some parts of the
play were poorly developed, one of
them being such a trivial part as
the climax, which never,> never is
important (oh, my gracious no!).
The only thing we can say is that
we think P. C. M.. most fair. To
properly describe < this virile melo-
drama he would have to be as fair
as he is and as clever as- Robert
Sherwood, Heywood Broun, and
Robert Benchley.
' The work of the crtiic is to give
his own sincere opinion of a pro-
duction and also to pick out incon-
sistencies and flaws .insofar as he
is able. In like manner particular-
ly praiseworthy features are to be
lauded. Why shouldn’t he say what
sees? And why should others take
offense from seeing what he says?
We have found P. C. M.’s opinion
to agree essentially with our own.
That he is more than capable-of be-
stowing praise where praise is due
is admirably evinced by his reviews
of “Pied Piper Malone,” “Scara-
mouche,” and other photoplays..
We like, P. C. M.’s criticisms and
we want more of them.
•	- ;	/ M. G. K.
■ '	R. M. W.
J;.--—A-.-.-..-.---------------
merged. The other Apostles form
a background. Gregori did this
fresco as a thanksgiving for. Fa-
ther Sorin’s, rescue from the sink-
ing ocean liner L’Amerique ■ in
1876.	• .	'	'
Over the east entrance you see a
golden grill from the house of St.
Bridget, of Swedenj in Rome. Be-,
hind it she and her daughter, St.
Catherine, heard Mass. Pope Pius
IX gave her horrie to the Congre-
gation v of Holy Cross as Roman
headquarters, and at the time the
Papal States were taken (1870)
this grill and the famous supposed
portrait of St. Bridget in the Art
Gallery (painted TOO years before
the discovery of .America) were
shipped to Notre Dame to prevent
confiscation.	I
:(To be Continued in Next Issue)



Saturday, March 15, 19^1{..
NOTRE DAME DAILY
8
From Off Stage
AT THE THEATRES
I Palace:
j Oliver:
“Roulette.” >-	:
“Judgment of the I
j Storm.”	.
• Orpheum: “Fashion Row.”
I LaSalle: “The Stranger.”
j Blackstone: “Let’s Go.”
. At The Blackstone
“Let’s Go” introduces a strange
and ideal character—-a sheriff who
js too kind-hearted to arrest any-
body. An added feature is Dick
Talmadge, whose performance sets
one to wondering how much insur-
ance premium he pays, and just
bow he managed to - live this long.
' Dick hops from house to house,
with the ease of a flying squirrel
and traverses perilous ridge poles
with the nonchalance of Bird Mill-
man. He shows a charming con-
' tempt of all species of police, and
his agility, in getting in and out,
and off, of freight cars is finished
to say the least.
Eileen Percy supports Mr. Tal-
madge, but is not as much in evi-
dence as her past performances
warrant.
This production,; while it ranks
fairly well on the whole, as enter-
tainment, is poorly done, in de-
tails and is as full of absurdities
as Mr. Talmadge is of tricks. His
excellence in acrobatics is the re-
deeming feature of the play.—P.
C. M. .
. At The Palace	.
Just when" we predicted great
things for the Palace show, the old
pain returned this week, and the
patient suffered a slight relapse.
Even taking into consideration. the
occasional bright spots of the af-
’ ternoon’s entertainment, on the
whole the show was little more than
fair, despite the fact, that there was
a bumper crop.of oil scandal jokes.
Which prompts us to remark that
American vaudeville owes a debt
of gratitude to Mr. Fall. .
’ The outstanding act, “At the
Country Club,” is what a high-
powered press agent would call “a
lavish production.” The offering
is good, if only for the fact that it
gives pretty girls a chance to wear
beautiful clothes foi’ the edification
of the cash customers. Add to this
a clever dancing number, some
singing, and a few moments of
mirth, and you know why we call
it a good act.
We hesitate
Allen, Taylor,
a dancing or
whether to call the
and Barber offering
an acrobatic act.
Whatever it was, there was some
good contortionist dancing and
some less-than-passable singing.
The Yankee Comedy Four will
please you with their singing, if
you^like quartets. • On the whole,
their comedy was of the slapstick
order and it usually failed to come-
dize. The act doesn’t assay, very
high.
Knox and Inman are good black-
face, and entertain, very well. Dur-
ing their few moments on the stage
they play the piano, dance, sing,
and dabble in comedy; what more
do you expect from a second act?
Prince Leo, billed as “Intelligence
on Four Legs,” lived up to advance
notices and performed like, a thor-
oughbred. This act is fairly'good
for an animal act.
“Roulette” is the name of the
picture. It’s the story of a woman
who gambled her all—and won!
The trouble all starts when the un-
conventional villain holds five aces
in a poker game. Not too good.
Pathe News, and Aesop’s Fable,
and a pretty dull comedy, complete
the bill.—E.C.	'
THE CHICAGO DAILY MA-
ROON—The undergraduate .coun-
cil is again considering’ the blan-
ket tax. This fee is to be added to
the tuition and is to be used to sup-
port campus activities of general
interest. The necessity of such a
tax to the success of many student
affairs which are now, and have al-
ways been in the past on the verge
of bankruptcy and the amount of
money this would save the student
is patent.	•	'
z Dr. J. A. Stoeckley, Extracting,
and Dentistry, 511 J. M. S. Bldg.
SOUTHBEND’SLE AD1NGTHEATRES
PALACE I ORPHEUM
’ NOW PLAYING
"at the Country Club”
With HOWARD DALTON and
TWELVE ASSOCIATE ARTISTS
YANKEE COMEDY FOUR
ALLEN, TAYLOR &
BARBER
KNOX & INMAN
PRINCE” LEO
Photoplay Feature
12—FAMOUS STARS—12
■	■ • ' .	. in .	. ’ .
“ROULETTE” ?
’ Pathe News ' Aesop’s Fables
Orpheum
NOW SHOWING
Animated’ Humanity Assert-
ing Itself In The Person of
M^E MURRAY .
. —In—
‘Fashion Row’
Her Most Startling Photo-
play Offering!
The
Book Shop
North Michigan St.
Books and
Supplies
■ Office Phone Main 513
Residence Phone Main 858
Dr. J. E. McMeel
. 415 Farmers’ Trust Bldg.
Office Hours 2 to 4; 7 to 8
. Visit
The Philadelphia
Confectionery
Ice Cream, Candy
■ and Lunches
Eddie Mahon to Dance
at Off Carnpus Vodvil
Mr. Joseph Casasanta, composer
of the Hike. Song, has just com-
pleted a very clever piece of . dance
music that will be presented for the
first time at the Students Vaude-
ville, March 26.	■
The music was written especially
for Eddie Mahon of the Chemistry
Department, who will put on sev-
eral novelty dances—some of those
old-time dances that won for him
first prize on the Washington hall
stage in 1916.
Students who failed to hear the
“Notre Dame Hike Song,” which
was sung with great success by the
Glee club recently, will have an op-
portunity of hearing Mr. Casasanta,
for he has been secured to accom-
pany Eddie Mahon at the piano and
will give some of his selections be-
tween the dances.
The local dancer has prepared a
special dance revue for the pro-
duction and will present some fea-
tures that have never before been
seen on the Washington hall stage.
Tickets for the show will be
placed on sale Tuesday morning,
and. seats for all students who buy
their tickets before Tuesday noon
will be reserved, and held for. them
until after the first act. All other
tickets sold will be for general ad-
mission only, and no seats will be
reserved for them.
IN THE INFIRMARY
Gerald Schilder, of Brownson,
and Harry McGuire are still con-
fined to the infirmary, and Jimmy
Stack, of Freshman, is now in the
isolation hospital. John Kenny and
Ted Griffin, of Brownson, Ted -Col-
by, of Carroll, and Dooly, of Fresh-
man hall, left the infirmary yester-
Dr. J. A. Stoeckley, Extracting,
and Dentistry, 511 J. M. S. Bldg.
I Office: Cor. Colfax Ave. and La- 7
1	fayette Blvd.	•
| Residence: 215 S. Taylor St. ' |
1 Dr. J. B. BERTELING j
ft Office, Main 675. Res., Main 63GJ 4
|	TELEPHONES	I
|	South Bend, Ind.	I
*
HEADQUARTERS
for
K. OFC. EMBLEMS
Need Any Jewelry—Fel-
lows—Just Charge It
Expert Watch and Jewelry
■ Repairing

LEAD I NG ■ CREDIT JEWELERS
£20 S. MICHIGAN ST,
ALL OUR CARS ARE EQUIPPED WITH HEATERS
Rent a New Ford
Drive it yourself
FOR WEEK-END TRIPS
FOR EVENINGS ABOUT TOWN
PAY BY THE MILE
LINCOLN 2195
U-DRIVE-IT CO.
217 So. Main Street
We have both open and closed models—all brand new.
RATES SURPRISINGLY LOW .
FRANK HATCH WILL TALK
Frank Hatch, the circulation
manager of the South Bend Trib-
une, will deliver a lecture to the
Freshman journalists in the Jour-
nalism room of the library, Tues-
day morning, March . 18,
o’clock. All journalists are
come.
at 9
wel-
McDonald Talks to
Commerce Students
Mr. Angus McDonald, vice-presi-
dent of the Southern Pacific rail-
road, gave an interesting talk on
the conditions ofv the railroads to
the junior and senior commerce
students last Tuesday. Mr. Mc-
Donald is a graduate of Notre Dame
and a former football player.
His talk dealt largely With the
transportation problem and he told
of the difficulties that were encoun-
tered in giving good service. He
also gave some of the solutions that
were offered to solve transportation
problems.1 Mr. . McDonald inter-
spersed his talk with a good deal
of personal reminiscences of the
railroad game so that the lecture
was both interesting and instruc-
tive.
Patronize DAILY advertisers.
THE NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
DAILY NEWS—The A-plus. men
were heretofore considered
the
leaders of the University. A fac-. ,
ulty questionnaire demanding
nameh of the men who on the
the
sur-
face were honor men at all. Dean
Wilkins said that in his opinion ,an-
honor man was “A man who pos-
sesses the qualities which promise
growth and attainment of leader-
ship. Among’ these are attractive
personality, technical abilty,. accu-
racy of observation, intellectual
curiosity, power of initiative, abil-
ity to reason, purposefulness, and
love of one’s fellows.” One of the
students named by the faculty as a
leader received in the same en- '
velope which announced this, a no-
tice that he had “flunked” a course.
AU
Colors
AU
Sizes
For real Fountain Pen Satisfaction
Use
"The Ink That Made
The Fountain Pen Possible"
SANFORDS
FOUNTAIN PEN INK
DR. FRANK J.POWERS
Office at University Infirmary
Hours 12:30 to 4
Residence Phone, Main 3346
Jf our Clothes don t make good—-We Will
Collegiate!
We’ll say so! Drop in and
See for Yourself
Spring Suits
and
Top Coats
$35 $40 $45 and $50
also our
Round Necked Sweaters
$5.00 up
MAX ADLER
Campus Store and at Michigan and Washington
8	.	..... NdriiEbAMEDAlbY
Saturday, March'15, lOfty;
CARROLL CINCHES
LOOP CHAMPIONSHIP
, Defeats Sorin Loopmen 22 to 12;
Final Gaines Sunday; Standing
of the Teams Given., .
Carroll hall, undefeated leaders
in the interhall baskietball tourna-
ment? cinched the championship of
the league and'the cup to go to the
winner,' when it defeated the Sorin
pagers in the gym Tuesday night,
22 to 12.	-	/
The first quarter was close, with
the ball traveling up and down the
court, and the forwards getting but
few chances at the basket. Sorin
captured the first point on a free
throw. This was the only time
. Sorin held the lead, which was bver-
come a few minutes later when
Howard dropped in two free tosses
for Carroll. From then' on Carroll
connected with . the basket regular-
ly, Kerwin and McNally leading the
attack. Carroll .was leading 10 to
.	3 when the half ended.. Swift and
Hunsinger played a nice game for
Sorin the first half. '	-
After Herbert, Carrollite, had
succeeded in sinking two baskets at
the start of the second half, Sorin
made ,an effort to overcome the
. lead with ;seven .points in quick suc-
, ' cession,, but McNally rang through
.	' six points and Favero , sunk a goal
। from the sidelines for Carroll, and
put the champs in the lead. .	;
Stuhldreher and O’Boyle of Sor-
in, and Maxwell of Carroll played
nice floor games, and performed ef-
fectively on the defense.
- ;The final games on the interhall
' basketball schedule will be played
in the gymnasium tomorrow. The
Sophomore-Cadillac game and also
the Walsh-Freshman affair promise
? to be the most hotly contested bat-
ties, as far as can be determined by
their standing in the league.
Brownson will encounter the lead-
ers, Day will take on Corby, and
. Sorin will batle with Badin. ?
/Following are the games for
Sunday:	*
•• - :	■ Morning '	-
- - Brownson—vs;,-Carroll,^9:30 .to
'	10:30?	. ?	‘
/ Walsh vs. Freshman, 10:30 to
12:00.	?	■
?	Afternoon .........
.Day vs. Corby. . ? ? < .? :. .
Sorin vs. Badin.
Sophomore, vs. Cadillac.
x / Interhall Basketball Standing
	Won	Lost	Pct.
Carroll ‘			8	0	T.000
Badin	:...; 6 '	2	.750
Day 			. .. 5	; 3	.625
Sorin 				:..... 4	3	.571
Cadillac	..... 4* "	. 4	.500
Brownson*.........	..... 3	4	.429
Sophomore 			 2	5	.291
Freshman ........		 2	5	.2fll
Corby 			..... 2	5	.291
Walsh 		1.		 1	6	.143
WESTERN RESERVE UNIVER-
SITY—Has at. last started the pub-
. lication of a? humorous magazine,
after five years of futile effort.. The
name of this publication is the “Red
Cat” and. the first , number.' was
called the “Kitten” number. Ad-
vice from former ? Juggler ; staff
members in the persons of Nels.
Callaghan and others helped to put
the first issue over...	.	'
■EVES EXAMINED
H. LEMONTREE
South Bend’s Leading Optometrist
and Manufacturing Optician
j 222% S. Michigan Street-
Phone Lincoln 6504
OFFICE PHONE RES. PHONE
Main 689 ' Main 1162 & 1347
Dr. EDGAR S. LUCAS
DENTISTRY
Dr. ROBERT F. LUCAS
Extracting and Surgery' of ;■ ‘
: the Mouth and Jaws
i . 612 J. M. S. Building
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
ON THE LEVEL
The winter sport season for the
Middle West is rapidly nearing a
close and one of the final events on
the program will be the mammoth
conference indoor meet next Satur-
day night in Patten gymnasium at
Northwestern.	.	. .	; ■
The interest that will be evi-
denced in this meet through the
conference states will be of great
intensity. The rivalry especially
among Iowa, Illinois, and Michigari
for conference honors will make
the meet one -of the most spectacu-
lar and : record-breaking that has
been run off in the Middle West in
some time.	.
England has sent another fighter’
to this country to capture Benny
Leonard’s crown. And he is like-
ly to'meet the same' fate that has
climaxed the careers of : nearly all
of John Bull’s scrappers,—that of
ignominious defeat. This latest
highly-touted Britisher, Harry Ma-
son, tackled “Kid” Brown in a New
York bout the other night and' he
had to exert himself to the limit to
gain a meager decision over the
Bronx second-rater. .	’ .
: Plans for the construction .of a
$350,000 combination field and
house, gymnasium for the 'Univer-
sity of Wisconsin have been' corii-
pleted. The gym; will seat 16,000
persons and will probably be the
largest gym in the Big Ten Con-
ference.
A careful study of'the record of
Benny Leonard, king of the 135-
pounders will probably disclose that
Benny is the greatest lightweight
that ever exchanged punches in the
hemped arena. Many sport writ-
ers, however, will place Joe Gans,
the colored past-master, at the head
of the list, and an equal number
will hold that “Battling” Nelson was'
superior to Gans and that be could
hand1 a trimming to Leonard. ■
. Joe Gans was truly a great, fight-
er-but his record is not as good as
Leonard’s. As a knockout, artist/
be could not-be-compared with the;
present champion. Nelson ’was just
a “boring in” type of fighter whose
chief quality was ruggedness and
he was a gluttori? for punishment.
He was riot clever and his awkward
style could easily be off-set by Ben-
ny’s footwork and defense. Then,
too, Benny has no offense that could
cope with that of the “Battler.”
Joe Gans was a credit to the ring
game.? The colored pugilist always
did his level best to please the fans
and he was one of the; gamest scrap-
pers that ever pulled on a glove.
Gans’ gameness was best mani-
fested in this last fight with Nelson.
Nelson was battering the veteran
around the ring and pelting him
with terrific jabse to‘the body. Gans
would not allow the towel to be

Two Good Places
to EAT
at
HOME
and at the
BELMONT
ND. STUDENTS INVITED
119 NORTH MAIN.
; •„■<?; -VISIT' '	' '' ? . z
Indiana’s Largest,
’ Dental Office
Not only in Size and Equipment
but Quality of Work as well. ?	:
J. T.HOLMES
DENTIST .
Corner Michigan & Washington Sts.'
Over Frumas Drug Company
Lookfor Signs . Lincoln 6819
thrown into the ring and refused to
go ' down,—he preferred losing
gamely? And losing gamely cost
Joe Garis his life? Not long after
his battle with Nelson he
tracted tuberculosis and soon
Nelson’s blows crushed his
con-
died.
:body
and caused-the collapse of his
lungs;	....	. •
Charley. White has opened a phys-
ical training school. White was
■physical instructor at Camp Cusr
ter, Gamp Grant arid Fort Sheri-
dan during the war, and his work
has , proved. that .he. is well-able to
put his pupils'in sound physical
condition. He has always, been a
close student of physical training.
Eighteen years ago, White was
supposed to be . suffering from tu-
berculosis. He gradually built, him-
self up so well that he is now in
perfect health after seventeen years
of battling in the reseined arena.
Charley White is one. of the gam-
est men in the ring today and his
famous left-hook commands the' re-
spect of every lightweight from
Benny Leonard to the preliminary
boy. Several years ago White land-
ed his left-hook ori Benny Leonard
arid the champion was knocked put
of the ring? This-fight is still: in
dispute,—White’s followers claim-
ing that Leonard’s helpers assisted
him back into the ring. ” -
Thirty-two men ,' will compose
America’s boxing team in the Olym-
pic, games. There will be four men
for., each; weight,—two of these- a^e
sure to. be in the fighting while two
will be alternates. In the Olympic
bouts they fifht two three-minute
and one four-minute rounds. A
boxer may 'fight four or; five' times
a day. : P.
Notre ' Dame - ;has two potential
Olympic, fighters in /.Danny Mc-
Gowan-and Rip Miller. These two
look promising and they will prob-
ably cause, a great stir in the try-
outs. .	■ -
: Ermino . Spalla, -a second-rate
Spanish mitt-slinger, stayed 14
rounds with the “Wild Bill of the
Pamas,”- Louis Firpo.’ This is a- dis-
credit to Firpo arid generally les-
sens his prestige.; >	?
' Paul. Berlenbach,- the’ sensational
middleweight who- has a record of
26 consecutive knockouts, receives
Herr & Herr Co
STUDENTS’ SUPPLIES
120 South .Michigan Street-.
Your 1923 sport'model SUIT can be
REMODELED INTO 1924
CONSERVATIVE STYLE
INTERURBAN TAILOR SHOP
Upstairs as you get off the Car ,
? THE PLACE TO .EAT
WHEN IN TOWN i ' -
L COURTEOUS SERVICE
WHOLESOME FOOD
' REASONABLE PRICES
Restaurant
.THE -.
IDEAL ■
LAUNDRY
The Students’ Laundry for-
Eight Years
$1000 for each fight. No wonder
Berlenbach and his handlers
willing to let things roll along
ily and play with “set-ups.”
are
eas-
KENTUCKY CLUB
:	(Continued from Page 1.)
gave a short talk in which
he
praised the efforts of the present
organization. He related many in-
teresting incidents . which were a
part of the campus life of the early
members; The origin of the club,
the assistance which it received
from Fathers Kavanaugh arid Car-
rico and Prof. John M. Cooney, and
the choice of titles for. the various
officers were revealed by the speak-
er. • Mr. . Clements was graduated
from, the University in 1916.
A club pin will be presented to
Prof. Cooney, honorary president,
at the next meeting of the club, it
was announced at the affair. Prep-
arations are •’ being made to have
the ’ organization represented in the
Student Activities Committee Car-
nival. -	.
SENIOR BALL TICKETS
(Continued frorii Page 1.)
protest if the juniors secured their
pins on. June 1, provided, that the
class of 1925 would agree that the
pins will not be worn in South
Bend or bn the campus until after
commencement;	.	’
,: A preliminary report on the Hard
Times dance showed a profit of
$186.00, which amount is likely to
be . slightly . increased . when out-
standing returns are completed. ‘
FRESHMAN TRACK MEET
; (Continued from Page 1.) !
/ The Freshman made, a poor show-
ing in. the two mile run. All the
places ’in that event were taken by
the visitors. They made, up for it,
however, in the'pole vault and the
shot put where the youngsters took
the first two places in each event.
The. relay race, which decided the
meet,. was: an?exciting affair. \ 'At
the start the score stood even. Me-

104-106 North Michigan Street' ,
206 South Michigan Street
' 837-880 South Michigan Street •
122 West Washington Avenue '
119-121 West Jefferson Blvd,
107 E. Washington Avenue :
321; West South Street •	■
Lunch Rooms
South Bend, Indiana
$5.50 Meal Tickets $5.00
. Good at all Up-TownLocations

In bad weather, a hurry
’ call1, dr for social affairs; a
YELLOW, CAB is • insur-
; ance for comfort, punctual-
ity, and dinstinction.
YELLOW
CAB
' ;?GO.?'?:-:
PHONE MAIN 5200 .
THE THINKING EEL-
LOW CALLS A YELLOW
Donald, who led off for Notre
Dame, handed the baton to Sheilds
with a two-yard lead? Shields
gained about two more yards and
gave Gournet a five-yard advan-
tage. However, Gournet weakened -
in the last lap and the Western
State; man passed him and gained
ten yards. Prelli, running anchor
could-not make up all of the last
ground and was beaten . by three *	;
yards.	;
The Summaries: .
40-yard. dash: Walker,. W. S^ i
first; Riley, N. D., second; Smith’
W. S., third. Time— :04 2-5. : ’	'
40-yard high hurdles: Barron 1
N.; D., first; Darling, W.S., second’ i
Wynne, - N.. D.,. third. TimeU
:05 1-5. '.	■	.	?	।
40-yard'low hurdles: • Barron, N. '
D., first; Darling, W. . S., second- 1
Riley, N. D., third. Time—:05 l^’ . '
440-yard dash: Weaver, W. S? :
first; Prelli, N. D., second; Hagan
W. S., third. Time—:52 5-10.	’
880-yard run: Klaassee, W. S.:
first; Judge, N. D., second;. Young
N. D., third. Time—2:03 2-5.	’
. Mile run:- Judge, N. D., first?
Klaassee, W, S., second; Collisso’ '
W. S., third. Time—-4:32 1-5.	’	?
. Two mile run: .Spurer, W.‘S.,	:
first; Klock, W. S., second; Collis-
see, W. S., third. Time—10:19 3-5,	'
: Shot put: Boland, N. D., first;	:
Mayer, N. D., second; Gocerner,
W. S., third. Distance^—37 feet	/
1 inch.	, •	,	। i
. Pole vault: Fitzgerald, N. D.,	:
first; Cullinan, N. D., and Schaefer, ;
W. S., tied for second and third; ’
Height—10 feet.	,	i
High jump: Richards, W. SM !
first; Sullivari, ' N.? D., second; '
Schaefer, W. S., third/. Height—5	!
feet 9 inches. \ •	. . i .	. • i
Mile ;relay:. Won by Western- i
State(Chickering, . McDougall, • !
Weaver and : Smith). > Time—
3:33.2-5.	;	.
2 more weeks
tb buy your
Prom Ticket
NOTRE DAME CAFETERIA
.	ON CAMPUS .
CLARK’S LUNCH ROOM
15 to 19 W. 6th Stf
;	GARY, IND. .
Reach Athletic Goods
McGregor. Golf. Clubs
Wright & Ditson Tennis;.
; > Rackets . ..
, G, E. Meyer & Son
• ' 1 . .. '	Est. .1864.	1 ;
HARDWARE
■	115-17 W. Jefferson Blvd.
JOHN H. ELLIS
OPTOMETRIST ?
Optholmoligist
512-513 j. ’ M? S. Bldg.
; •	- Phone Main 419