BOOST
NOTRE DAME
Notre Dame Daily [
mJ
BROADCAST
NOTRE DAME

VOL 2. NO, 90
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, TUESDAY, MARCH 18, i924
CAMPUS
BY-PATHS
It has come at last; I should have
forseen that it would be impossible
to keep this column free from oil
and still keep it running smoothly,
go with reckless abandon I give you
this editorial on a kitchen utensil
and the bonus. “Oh, the land once
free and the homes wheer they
rave.” ' .'
. "I -o- -o- '	■ ■
Truly this is “Verse-sez What?”:
The Tea-pot Blues •
In every home throughout the land
The poor old Tea-pot has its’s stand.
While steaming water, through it
runs
It has aroused our nation’s guns.
The greatest men, both great and
small,
Are waiting now to hear the call
From senators whom we did choose,
Singing the while the Tea-pot Blues. ।
Among the first to hear the call, i
Was a man by the name of A. , B.
Fan. ;	‘
’Though Denby /went, down .in dis-
; grace,
Old Daugherty looks , them in the
„ face.. '	'. " ’ ' . \
(The election. soon will: be at hand
So pick . good, men to . take the
....stand.)	'/ ..
They took froih • us . our beer and
■ . booze,
And all that’s; left is ,the Tea-pot
. ."?..Blues.	.... ’'??
Seminar Discusses
Foreign Languages
“The Place of Foreign Languages
in the Curriculum of Secondary
Schools” was discussed at a meet-
ing of the Educational Seminar in
Sorin hall last night. Opinions
were given : as to how foreign lan-
guages should be. taught with re-
gard to the objective in learning
languages. : ’
Some of the different methods
discussed were: the grammar trans-
lation method, which is generally
| employed in schools; the psycholog-
ical-system of Gouin, which is the
system of the association of ideas;
the phonetic method of Vietor,
which is the use of symbols that are
PRICE 4 CENTS
They’re spending, money hand, o’er
hand;;
To drive this'scandal from the land;
Arid: cohgress<has ~no? time*7 to; talk
The bonus question, it has balked., '
The'boys who. really need'the dough
Just cannot make . ’em think it so—
They fight arid squall and push and
* choose,, •. : ■ \	.. ?
But all we :get is the',Tea-pot Blues.
Now- Mellon, :he- says this and that,
“A bonus would make our. country
■flat.” -.	?■; ?/;
Yet Colonel Forbes got all he could,
From gov’m’nt coin to- Gov’n’r
Wood..	’
And . this is the song of H, Sinclair,
"I know I got more.than.my share.”
In silver, gold, ;and land to choose-—
But all we get is the Tea-pot. Blues!
; . __j. E. W., ’24.
■ • •. . -o- -o-' '	''
In Sunday’s S., B. Trib l glimpse
this headline:' ,.; '?	.
; X? WED AT ARSONAGE ' ■ •'
It greatly puzzled mej I have
reached the conclusion that the
wedding took place in a fire-station.
-o- ■ -o- . "V ■
I wonder .if you all spent a hap-
Py Sunday. Of • course ■. it depends
greatly on your year of school
whether you walked the Niles road,
strolled down Michigan • street,
yawned through; the. Palace,, or
5Pent the afternoon and evening in
Mishawaka. ‘ Such' is ;a typical ad-
vancement, changing with one’s
scholastic advancement' arid the
seasons. -Although I hesitate to be.
specific I will drop the guarded
Word. that .I' enjoyed the holiday
M that I’m “doing as welLas can
ee; expected.”, A ' ' ’ f
/ -o- ,-o-'
jAnd how is Miss-Grumpy? 'Just ,
"he, thank you. Of course, she cari-
pot.come into a great deal of prom-
■perice during the danceless season, ,
hut wait, until her folks let her
“rive the new. sedan. And that may .
may riot be recorded. It is to
he expected that we will have a car-
°hsal. ■ ; - '	•.
< ■' ■:'	-o- -o-
A too, wait anxiously for news,of ;
what Wednesday will bring. Sure- 1
Yyou don’t need to stop and figure j
pt out! Avis la, firi.	. ’ j
. MR. GRUNDY. 1
MISSION CRUSADERS	,
m	Isolation Hospital
nF Ak r A I Hr R I Fill I Five students, seven seminarians,
lltimi 1 ni llLin lIlltiLi and one minim are confined to the
-----------------	isolation hospital with scarlet fe-
Students Are Urged to Enter Short S, '
- Story and Drama Contest; honey, of Freshman hall; and Wil-
Finanpial Rpnnrt Marfo liam E* Ryan’ and Ed McLaughlin,
nndnbJdl nepun MdUU, of Brownson hall. The men are
Father George Thill, national looking, upon their misfortune very
secretary-general of the ‘Catholic optimistically, and they are enjoy-
Students’ Mission Crusade, was the themselves with a new radio,
principal speaker .at a meeting of which" was donated by Al Diebold’s
the local units of the mission or- father last Saturday. The students
ganizatibn in the library Suriday have already heard from Pittsburg,
morning.	Kansas City, Chicago, St. Louis,
Father Thill spoke on movements and Des Moines.
which would help to spread the	—-----------
mission spirit^ He spoke especially vt^tytrnno a y IX
on the. short story and drama con- 11 IV H l<^ A I III I ■
EDUCATION DEPT.
TO BE DISTINCT UNIT
Louis,
cominon in different languages; the	....
natural method; the reading sys- on the.short story and drama con- IIMIVFK^AI M Fl
tern, ' and the eclectic or direct tests which are being carried on by will T liluJrlli !/•
method, which is. a combination of crusade through their national >TT/iTTrT| 1 TiTlIT n J
the best points m the other five paper; «The shield„ Prizes : m|( H I IjW	J A
methods.	amounting to $100 are • offered for | WM1 1 VI i *11 IvlLi
-	,	- V -	. « ...	-
the three best stories 'written and	'	-
CARROLL DEFEATS	Is to Revive Interest In
.	'	-	:	Two prizes are offered for: the Alumni* 3(1(1 UdlVPrsitV
BROWNSON, 21-20 1. The first prize is $200 and the Activities?
_______	second, $100. Anyone is eligible n „ -	,,	_ ,	.
to compete in the contest. Some- The call for the first Universal
Cullinane Stars as Walsh Beats thing that will exemplify the mis- Dame Night has beenJssued.
’Freshman; Carroll Goes Through
Season Undefeated., . 'rante,d- -. »jaoMy essential that 5eh^sVy 2«e7s t^
■	the play contain an argument for j® 7’“urs“a , r,?ru ls„„e
In the only two interhall basket- the spread of Christianity' Any . at®	folding off he Un-
ball: games played in the gym Sun- style or form of drama is permitted. Y®®,al Notre Dame Night. Fifty
day, Carroll riosed Brownson out Father Thill said that he knew aneous meetings, of Notre
of a 21 to 20, score, and Walsh the character of the students, at Fame men from .coast to coast are
handed Freshman a 22 to. 18 drub- Notre Dame and he is confident ”einS arranged. The purpose is
bing. The’other gairies. were post- that there are men here wno are revive interest in Alumni and
poned until later in the -week, be- capable of writing good stories and	irs 1? order to stim-
cause of the Minims’ track meet dramas.	. ?he Notre Dame expansion
which was held in the gym Sunday Father Thill also spoke about mc’	. .
afternbn. <	another educational feature now in . Informative pamphlets concern-
: The two crews from the main Progress. There are booklets being ing these meetmgs'have been sent
buildingfpuLupjme-ofJha-pr.e.tsifist Prepared which treat of alhthe mis- to. 2500 Notre Dame graduates,
exhibitions' of basketball that has sionary-countries rather exhaustive-
beeri -witnessed in < the gym this ly- ' T“ese booklets are to be read from the “Tribune” station , on the
season. Both,teams got'off to fast and discussed'at the meetings., of night of these meetings.. The time
starts. With ..the score twu all, ; (Continued ori Page d.) will be announced later. There will
Brownson forged ahead with two. ’
field goals, only to be tied a few T'
minutes later by the leaders. From J
then bn the game was nip and tuck,
with neither team having the ad- j
vantage/ Toward the end of the ?
first stanza Brownson left Carroll ■
---------:--- be several speakers and the rest of
the program will be given by- cam-
DAILY ’ pus orffanizatf°ns'
QUESTIONNAIRE |
..... ----------------- -------- : What asked: “What is your I	to Meet Tomorrow
at-the half-way mark was in favor i opinion of the man who makes- The March mpetlne
Of .Brownsdn?10 ;to :13. ; The work j	ajltas studies?” । ern Indidna Section°of the Amer!
of Kerwan.of Carroll, and Rogers =. Where asked: Chemistry hall, lean Chemical Society, which will
lofeErownson, featured, the first _ -	. be held at. 8 o’clock Wednesday
.frame,	>	j R. _J.; McNamee, Litt. IV, | • night in Chemistry hall, will be of
Carroll came back strong the last j^.or^ ,• Continually getting j special interest to ’ campus men
half and scored 11 points .while the ?nigh grades in all of one s studies; since the local Chemist club , is to
best ■ the Brownson ringers could Isomptimes signifies that the stu-j entertain the society. The tonic
do'was'to amass seven; Both 1 dent, question- is a ‘book-j for discussion is “Hydrogen Ion
teams performed in • riice style the ,work ; but in general I think it? Concentration, its ..Measurement
second period, but Carroll’s ability ?shows that he has a litle mores andElectrometricMethodsbfTitra-
to . sink shots decided...the contest, j^han casual interest m his course I tion.” . ■	•	■ ■ ’	: , a
Bielli was the' bright light for l°f study.” .	; i ivry ' a.p , p	-i„;n „•
Brownson, while Maxwell and Dah-	I, c,e®ry>. Law I, Gym;:	the princjpai’addres’s tV
man starred for Carroll. Favero	T The man who. can make high I	ment? wil! be tho work nf
contributed! his usual snectacular	sgrades.is lucky.” . . |	be work-°f	Messis,
contributed! .his_ usual spectacular	- E. V. O'Brien, Law I, Carroll: f	^hnganz and Reilly, and	will	be
■ j«t	:—x-i. jja Li-.-.jattended witq an explanation of
the appratue by. Mr.. Willihnganz. •
three points ;behindr and- the score I
shot from the side .lines. The en- LIT- , ■; .	. ,. ,s
tire Brownson squad made one of ’ apt to be rather skeptical j
the' most creditable' showings dis- .	hlg’
played by the. interhall • teams this grades m all of his. studies. He
. j	{either has a vast knowledge of I
season.	, ,	,	‘	. I al! his studies, or an easy teach-t
Freshman went down to_def eat at -er., ' He. is'-either a cribber or al
the hands of- Walsh, 22 to 18. | crdrfinier/ a grind- or ‘as you like I
Walsh played a nice game ana lit? High'grades are impossiblej
deserved the, victory. Getting of | because ‘perfect’ assimilation in T
to; an early Walsh had gath- : a three-hour a week term would 1
ered_a total of seven points before ;about 80 per cent a term. The 1
the Frosh tossers had even a try at |marking system used at Notre I
the basket. Freshman had a ard (Dame is' antiquated and: is not j the negative side, of the qpestion.
time carrying, the ball throughou | a pfoof of a man’s knowledge of | The Irish logicians advanced the
the contest, while Walsh was hitting I -nUikpi » .	> I 1 he .-fogjcians advanced the
the basket with regularity, mainly. I	! L'in D argument that America could weld
throne-K the efforts of Eustace Gul- a -iW ■	7	? yl> a greater influence by independent
tniougn_tne enorts oi. ihusjace vui don’t know what to say about I aet;on that thP WnrW Court:
laine, who was high, point man of |him - At ariv-rrite he must he a- »c“?;;ana	. 01WaLourt
the o-nmp	I?1”!’ —any .rate ne must he aj ^ad dangerous affiliations with the
we game.	,	£ better? man than F am.”	I Leap-up nf Nations
I Walsh was leading, 13 to 10, at 1. Bert. V. Dunne, . Litt.: B. II,I
the beginning of the second halfL j Music hall: ■ “High grades are, | Winter prom
Lukats and DeVault performed ■ of course, a criterion of a riian’sl	_ JUNIOR PROM-TICKETS
n v»l xr	T	* ■	—
Irish Debaters
' Lose To Indiana
Indiana’s'debating team defeated
Notre Dame in ‘ a debate in Indian-
apolis on Friday night. The ques-
tion was “Resolved; That the
United States Should Enter the
World Court. Notre Dame upheld
* .	,, —G3—	. MA.
jof course, a criterion of a inan’s
= ability. But there is a certain
l amount- of scholastic charm to
: ■ -urBu-AM Mun AT rnNTF^T ' I the trifler—that interesting -bit
MEEHAN MEDAL CONTEST o£:educational lell0W who bluffs,'
The essays for the Meehan Medal | tricks ■ and through subterfuge
Contest should be submitted by land petty chibanery makes- the
May . 1 at .the very latest. This con- | profs realize that a credit should
test for the best English, essay, is jbe given-to;,the;extemporaneous
the most traditional on the campus, t vagrant, who .through-quick, wits
The subject matter can be any- j and ; shrewd ■ delivery, - convinces
thing connected with literature, and | the faCuity that he is entitled to
is open tq,all seniors regardless of | a passing mark ”
the courses they are pursuing. •
stellarly for the losers.
The .ticket committee of the Juri-
ior' Prom- announces that the sale |
j of tickets to seniors will begin to-
| morrow. Since the sale of tickets
i is-limited and a large number of
[ riames appear on the seniors’ wait-
j ing list, all juniors must make their
; reservations at once. -No-tickets
: will be held unless a five-dollar de-
I, posit is made. Tickets may be se-
cured’ at. 243 Corby any„time~to-
! day, or from any member bi the
-ticket committee.
“School of Education” Will Em-
brace Three Departments; Father
Cunningham Director of Unit. -
Announcement was made yester-
day that the Department of Educa-
tion, until now a branch of the Col- :
lege of Arts and Letters, is to be^
come a distinct unit at the Univer-
sity, and. will in the future < be
known as “School of Education”
with three departments, embracing
general education, physical training
direction, and boy work.
Father William Cunningham, C.'
S. C., is to be the director of the
unit. He will have charge of the
general education branch, and will
be assisted in the physical training
I direction department by an instruc-
j tor who has not yet been named.
Raymond Hoyer, of Toledo, sent
here by the Knights, of Columbus,
will have charge of the boy work.
The first, two departments will
have regular four year curriculums
made up of constants and .variables.
The constants are the required
hours and the variables are the
groups which are elected by the stu-
dent. k Those who register for the?
course in physical education direc-
tion will be required to select their
minor subjects in the biological
group of sciences. . Entrance re- •
quirements for either of these de-
partments- will be the usual fifteen
I high school credits.' -
j The third division, that of boy,
i work, will be a two year graduate f
course, the students to be entered
by the Knights of Columbus under
the direction of their chief advisor,
Brother Barnabas, who will have an
office' here;—? i—- - -	i-. - -
I Studies offered in the .division of
I general education will be desig-
nated to meet the needs of those .
entering teaching as a profession
by prescribing all the riecessary
professional subjects; according to
Father Cunningham. '	~
• The program for the training of •
physical education directors which,
was. recently discussed at a meeting
of the Educational - Seminar: by
Coach Knute K. Rockne and others,
will fit them for the supervising; of ;
gymnastics and the coaching' of
athletic teams.
. The purpose for the two' year .
graduate course in boy work is to
train meh for the free time guid-
ance of boys. Every phase of boy
activity will be .studied, including
the Boy Scout program. St. Ed- •
! ward’s ^school for boys,with its 150
pupils, will be used as a laboratory _
for this department, beginning-next
September. The men taking.; this
course will be trained particularly,
to care for the boy without advan-
tages,—the boy of the street. Clubs
will be organized for these boys and
their play time will be supervised.
Professors Prepare
Undergrad Bulletin
- . The college of Arts and Letters
has authorized the publication of ;
an undergraduate bulletin, av copy
of which will be in the'hands of -
every man on the campus by June
1, if possible. ,	...	:• . -' • •
' The purpose of. this' bulletin, .
which is an enlargement of ‘ the
Freshihari Handbook which came
out last September,’ is to inform the
students regarding many , matters
associated with Notre Dame—cur-
riculum, discipline, activities, clubs, r
tradition, etc! ' ; ■ . : ;..?■> ■ '
The committee .which prepared
this new bulletin is composed of Dr.
Cooney, Dr. Macgregor, and ■ ;Mr.;
Fenion. The manual has been com-...
pleted, and is now in the hands, of ;
the deans of the departments arid
the various officials of the Univer- < •
for their approval, before printing.
In publishing this new bulletin,;
although it will not be a Freshman
bible as in other schoolsi Notre
Dame is following in the footsteps; ■
of other, universities, which have al-
ready thus equipped those who are
about to. enter their doors.
2
NOTRE DAME BAILYjL ...
Tuesday, March IS, 192^. ~
WTBB iAWSAHT
■■■—ayf.'i	"■sr1.;.'i'.   	-
University of Notre Dame official daily paper, published every morning except
Monday, Wednesday and Friday during the academic year by the Notre Dame Daily
Company, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Entered as second class matter at the post office of Notre Dame, Ind.
Subscription rate, $4.00 per year; by mail, $4.50. Single copies, four cents. .
EDITORIAL STAFF
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF...___________X.....................................  HARRY	A. McGUIRE,’2 5
Editorial Staff—Harry Flannery, ’23; Henry Fannan, '24; James Hayes, ’24; John
Brennan, ’24; Frank Kolars, ’24; Jack Scallan, ’25; Eugene Noon, ’24; Paul
Funk, ,’24;.Ray Cunningham, ’25.	„ „ „
News Editors.._____________......_....1........  ....Gerald	Lyons,24; Laurence G. Kelly, 25
Night Editors______________;.......-.............John Stoeckley, ’25 ; Ray Cunningham, ’25
Terence Donahue,’27; John Gallagher,’26
Sport Editor............’.-.----------------...-----------------------— •.•Tom Coman,’25
Literary Editor	............................. .........‘..Dennis J. O Neill, 26
Dramatic Editors ...............>-...............„......Paul C. Martin,’24; Eustace Cullinan,’25
Bulletin Editor .._________________.___________-................-....Charles McGonagle,’24
Assistant Night Editors.....................—......;Mark Nevils, ’27; Robert Maher, ’25;
Charles Crawford,*27; John. Snakard,’25
Reporters—Rupert Wentworth, Lester Grady, Mark Nevils, Ray Flannigan, Carlos
’ Lane, Jr., Jay Fleming, Joseph Navarre, Roy Chauvin, Don Cunningham, Por-
ter Wittick, Franklin Conway, John P urcell. and. Jack Flynn. .
This Issue
Night. Editor .........  Robert	M. Maher Assistant ...............-......Larry Kelly
BUSINESS STAFF
BUSINESS MANAGER --------------------------------------....JOHN N. STANTON,’24
Local Advertising Manager .— ------------—...............—Corbin Patrick, 26
Foreign Advertising, Manager -----......— ...... —.....;. .James A. Witney, 26
Circulation Manager -----...........................................John Q. Adams, 26
■ Distribution Manager  ...............................     John	y?orden Kane, 26
Assistant Local Advertising Managers.....— Michael Reddmgton, 26, George J. Schill, 27
Advertising Assistants—Edward iE. O’Brien, Alfred J. Diebold, Jr., Henry J. Massman,
Walter J. Kennedy, Frank Doyle, H. Edwin. MacLannan, Jack Loftus, George
Meade. ; :	'
• Distribution Assistants—Tom O’Connor, Errol Jones, F. Andrews, Joseph Szanyi,
' Frank Bischoff, P. Dillakamp, C. Dickerson. A. Nanovic.
woman
shaw
The February issue of The Catholic World contains an article
on George Bernard Shaw, whose waning popularity has been somewhat
revived by his current playj:“St. Joan.” The. article is one of a scries
entitled “False Prophets,” which, the j editor began in December. Ever
since the beginning of . his career’there has been a-great difference of
. opinion concerning Shavian philosophy, and Father Gillis’ article an-
alyzes his doctrines from the Catholic point of view. He says, with re-
gard to Shaw’s: iconoclasm:- -	.
“More often—indeed almost always—he is clever and genuinely
- witty. . I .will even concede that he is brilliant. But if one asks me
to confess that Shaw is'an original!thinker, I demur. For it seems
to-me , that any fairly attentive reader of Shaw must quickly detect
the fact that Shavian ‘originality’‘is in.reality ready-made. He follows
a formula. ;.The formula is to ridicule what the human race reverenc-.s.
and to“extol what th’e human^race'abominates.'	- - - - - <
“For example: Mankind has always held religion to be a blessing.
Shaw says it is a curse. Poverty is generally considered a misfortune,
but not necessarily a sin. Shaw protests that poverty is a cpme. Most
men and women think that the love of a child for its mother is beau-
tiful’. Shaw calls it ‘horrible.’ We believe marriage to be a sacrament
and a-safeguard of morality. Shaw; blatantly protests that ‘marriage
is the most licentious of institutions.’ Patriotism, when genuine, is
admittedly noble. Shaw declares it disgraceful. Christians consider
the martyrs to be the greatest heroes of the human race. Even non-
Christians, who think the martyrs, died in vain, nevertheless are wont
to admire them because they died for principle and for conscience.
Martyrdom, for any cause, demands a combination of moral and physi-
cal bravery.-’ But Shaw thinks that martyrdom is a proof positive of
asininity. He lampoons the martyrs and grossly caricatures them.
Consistently, he, refused a change to be a martyr. ’ When the Great
War. was imminent, and even , when it had actually begun, he was be-
rating England. and praising Germany. But of course, the English
refused to laugh. So he first became silent and then changed his views
to. conform with those of the multitude.
“His philosophy is unmitigated pessimism. All that is, is wrong.
All that exists must be destroyed. ‘I am, always have been, and always
shall be, a revolutionary writer,’ he says, speaking in his own name.
And in the name of Tanner in • ‘Man and Superman,’- he boasts ‘L
shatter creeds and demolish idols.’ Cato. was content with/ a modest
program. ‘Carthago est delenda’. (Carthage must be destroyed). But
Shaw cries but for the destruction of all civilization. He'knows noth-
ing good. ‘Oiir laws, make law impossible. Our prosperity is : organ-
ized robbery.’ .	...........'
clothed with the sun, and the moon
under her feet, and on her head a
crown of twelve'stars” (Apocalypse
XII :1). . The statue, which stood'
on the porch for three years,' was
raised October 11, 1883, after?one
and a half days’ labor. Read Fath-
er’ Sorin’s letter in the introduction
to Eleanor Donnelly’s 1 .poems,
“Crowned with Stars,” in which he.
reveals, his dream of this monu-
ment to Our Lady. In 1878, while
That scholastic philosophy forms
; ■ y:^yy-^	y y
Iconoclasts have advanced the theory; that morals are merely
geographical and, that what would be criminal in one partpf the world
would.be virtue in another.: .	’
Where do some of our mem come from,. and what rules of conduct
govern that locality or localities ?	. ,	:
. The. conduct of some of the men who attended the readings-by
Frederick Paulding in Washington hall last week was certainly not
edifying, and bordered on the barbarous. We say barbarous, because
this, word comes closest, to, describing what is almost impossible of; de-
scription. : .	. •	' ' ;	’
,1”, This is not the first time at Notre Dame that people who are. in-
. ; vited to appear before the student body, people who are.artists in their
respective fields, have been interrupted and antagonized by those they
try to entertain and educate. But the ^conduct of. some of our men was
especially reprehensible on this occasion. During some of the most
. beautiful scenes of each’ of the two' plays which , were' read, both the
audience and’ the speaker were interrupted and disturbed by.' clumsy
l^otre Dame’ men scraping their hobnails and/ banging down the
aisles on their way to the exits. . Asininity and total lack of grey matter
were, the chief characteristics observed by a student of physiognomy. •
• Men have been burned at the stake for less. ;
■y : ' -y ■r    ------/ ..... .■.	....	,-y yn"
A witty person is one who reads the humorous magazines that you
• never see;
' Pants arc pants and a vest is a vest and never’the twain.shall meet.
“Big Four 9 9 Sports ■
Now in Evidence
Baseball, golf, track and tennis;
the Big Four among spring activi-
ties, are starting to - assert them-
selves now that basketball has'gone
thezway of bowling. '	:	. 7 /
Baseball, contending as; ever for
the spotlight of . attention, has re-/
ceived’the greatest (part, of discus-
sion and has been most in evidence.
In Chicago, a paper recently, se-
cured the services of an expert, who,
after: due deliberation predicted
that-the National. League “Phillies”
could‘expect nothing better, than
last, place.- But one need not ven-
ture off the campus to secure
glimpses of horse-hides and. gloves..
Laundry boxes arrive daily, con-?
taining among other things,-the,ne-
cessities in baseball equipment.
Baseball is fast k preparing for its
two. months’ reign on the campus.
Golf ? is.another sport quite, in evi-
dence. • For several; days a. select
group.has been hard at .work, be-
hind ;Sophomore hall.;A few: even
traveled out to Qhain-o’-Lakes Sun-
day to play, a few holes, over a de-
serted course. '	:. ;
However, the uncertain weather
still confines the track and tennis
men to-the gym. If the ;weather
continues fair for a few days the
work on ‘ Cartier field and the ten-
nis, courts will get under way. ;
Review of Notre Dame9s Early History
Shows Faith And Courage of Founders
About the middle of the seven-
teenth century Father Claude Al-
louez, S. J., began his work among
the Potto watomie Indians who
roamed this part of the country,
and for three years labored on the
site of the future Notre Dame.
After his death (1689) the mission
was continued, but the log chapel
was abandoned in 1759. In 1830
Father Badin, the first priest or-
dained in the United States, rebuilt
the chapel; and he and other mis-
sionaries continued hsi work until
Father Sorin and six Brothers came
on November 25, 1842. These
were the: first members of Holy
Cross Community to come to Amer-
ica. A monument behind the li-
brary marks the spot where they
founded Notre Dame. The Mission-
ers’ House was the ’ first college
(1843-45). The Log Chapel was
rebuilt in 1906; a visit to it brings
you into another world.
The dome on the Main building
rising t<y ’a height of 170 feet,
crowns Father. Sorin’s. work. The
statue of Our Lady, a gift, of the
graduates of St, Mary’s, is 16 feet
high. It is made of three-eighths
inch metal and weighs 4400 pounds.
Giovanni Mili designed it at Chi-
cago, following the model adopted
by Pope Pius IX on the occasion of
the proclamation of the doctrine of
the Immaculate Conception (De-
cember 8, 1854)
the ruins of the Main building were
still smouldering, Father Sorin was
scraping mortar off bricks to build
anew. When those of less faith
would have been discouraged he
sent to the Pope,for his good works,
the first five thousand dollars col-
lected for rebuilding. Such faith
and indomitable spirit had to suc-
ceed. It is his tradition that' we
should strive to perpetuate.
The church sprire is 218 feet
high and may well represent Father
Zahm and his achievements. Read
Father Cavanaugh’s article on him
in the Catholic World, January,
1922; and visit his grave in the
cemetery. The Dante collection in
Lemonnaier. owes its . existence to
Father Zahn, who from his own
study knew ; Dante’s supremacy.
“Those who knew it best wish oth-
ers to share the knowledge of that
verse, '. whose magnanimity has
power: to inspire the faint-hearted,
whose tenderness has overcome sul-
lenness, and assuaged • perplexity
and of which it has been truly said
that when once we have held con-
verse with its grandeur our souls
can never seem small again.” The
Zahm collection is the best in the
United States in regard to texts of
Dante, written in nearly every lan-
guage and dating from the' early
years of printing. (For a descrip-
tion of the collection see Scholastic
54:395.)
! No university has a greater
group of paintings than we have in
the four gallaries in Lemonnier li-
brary, which may be -visited any
day from 3 to 5 o’clock. To Jie
sure, one must wait until the paint-
ings speak to' him;-but even during
the firstr visit the beauty of these
originals—“The Salute to the Ris-
ing Sun,” or Van Dyck’s “Cruci-
fixion, ” or Maiczewski’s “Death of
a Polish Exile”—will burst upon
the intelligence of anyone.
Official
University Bulletin
Copy Collected from DAILY
Bulletin Box at 4:30 p.m.
CHAS. A. McGONAGLE .■
Editor.
Fort Wayne Club
There will be a meeting of
6:30 Wednesday night in the
room of the library.
the club at
Journalism
. Drama Club
There will be a meeting
club in Mr. Reynold's class
this evening.
of
the Drama
room at 7:45
Baseball
Baseball lectures begin today at io-Qn
in room 223' Main building. ■*”	-
dates be present. COACH
All candi-
KEOGAN.
S. A. C.
There will be a meeting of
today at 12:30. .
the S. A. C. '
Carnival Committee	\
There will be a meeting of the S A C
Carnival committee, J. Reidy, M. Mooney'
J. Moran, D. Gallagher, J. Egan, in the
south room of the library at 12 :30 Thurs
day.
Rochester. Club
The club will meet after services Wed-
nesday night in the Journalism room of x
the library. '
■ ■ Chemists
The Northern Indiana Section of the
American Chemical Society will meet
Wednesday evening at 8:00 in Chemistry
hall. Discussion: “Hydrogen Ion Concen-
tration, Its Measurement, and Electro-
metric Methods of Titration.’’
Prom Committee .:
' Committee meeting postponed to Wed-
nesday at 12:15 o’clock in library.
Kentucky. Club
. Meeting of the Kentucky club in the
south room of the library at 7:30 tonight.
What Others Say
Scholastic Philosophy Forms Basis for
. Delsarte System of Expression Used Here
. _ y . s art a-plenty, with only the person-
the ' basis of a school 'of - 'expres-
sion is not generally known. Com-
menting upon the Catholic • princi-
ples of literature, as. outlined in the
current numbers -of the Religious
Bulletin, Professor Sullivan, head
of the . department of public’speak-
ing, has this to say:
“The Delsarte system of. expres-
sion, which is followed by the'Le-.
land Powers School and at Notre
Dame, is simply aesthetic transla-
tion' of the scholastic philosophy,
which is the philosophy of Aristotle
immeasurably enlarged by. Chris-
tian revelation, especially by St.
Yugu’stine and St. Thomas. .
“Delsarte, as a student,' -went
from master to master seeking a
system of expression. He found
ality of'an" individual behind "it.
There were no rules, no system. In
his search for ,a system he went
back-to his metaphysics, and there
he. found, in the image of the
Blessed_ Trinity, a basis for his
work.
\ “As man is made in the image of
God, we can rightly expect to find
the stamp of the Trinity on his be-
ing, his thoughts and his actions.
‘Man, made, in the image of God,
manifestly carries in his inner be-
ing as in his body, the . august im-
print of this triple causality,’ said
Delsarte in his address' to the Phil-,
otechnic Society of Paris. • Upon
this basis he divided up states and
functions of the body and soul, and
developed a harmonious system of
their expression.” ‘
luvenis Liber et Navis Bovium-
Already, students have-begun to
plan on cattle boat excursions to
Europe, and other students are lis-
tening wide-eyed to proposed travel
projects. We might comment on
the growing importance, of the low-.
ly navis bovium, which has come
into its own at midsummer college
institutions, and on the cultured
crews which have escorted the gen-
tle. cow on its trans-Atlantic .tour.
Our; interest lies, , not, in the_mec__
chanical devices by which the col-
lege youth is whisked away from
the New York or Montreal harbor,
but in the inner urge which gets
him,out of his shell.
. College has brought him a kind
of physical freedom—call it the
wanderlust or what you will—that
makes him discontent^ with the local
thrills and the neighborhood cine-
mas. As he emerges from the fet- .
tered days of adolescence, and
makes strides into the. new and .
startling realms of thought free-
dom, he yearns for new experiences
that can only be found in unvisited
lands.' And he'travels. •
' And tor accomplish this end he •
avails himself of the navis boyium.
This is freedom.—“The Daily Ma-
roon,” Chicago.
Patronize DAILY advertisers.
104-106 North'Michigan Street -
■ 206 South Michigan Street.'-
, 337-389-South Michigan Street • -,
122 West Washington Avenue
. 119-121 West Jefferson Blvd; ■
• -107 E. Washington Avenue
321 West South Street
NOTRE DAME CAFETERIA
r ON CAMPUS..
CLARK’S LUNCH ROOM
15 to 19 W. 6th St.
GARY, IND. ■ v
O. A. Clark’s
Lunch Rooms
South Bend, Indiana
$5.50 Meal Tickets $5<.00
Good at all Up-Town Locations
Tuesday, March'18,188Ji-
NOTRE DAME DAILY
8
From Off Stage
• ---------------------------—
f. AT THE THEATRES
Palace: “Half-a-Dollar Bill.”
Orpheum: “Boy- of Mine.”
Oliver: “The Mail Man.”
LaSalle: ‘Let - No Man Put
Asunder.”
Blackstone: “The Light That
Failed.’

At the Palace
For the third consecutive week,
ffe report the Palace, show to be
fair, or perhaps this time a shade
better., :: Things looked pretty dull
until Eddie Nelson stepped into
the breach and considerably raised
the amusement average. .	.
Eddie, as we shall call him fa-
miliarly, brought with him an act
full of laughs and a girl who would
make the advertisements a dead
loss any time she rode in a street
car. There are times when the fun
descended to the level of slapstick,
but, for the most part the act is
highly amusing.
“First Love” sounds pretty good,
and it is. When a bashful hero is
pursued (figuratively) by a beauti-
ful girl, the result is usually enter-
taining. . And who are we, to say
that this is an exception? ,
“Everybody Step” specializes in
dancing, eccentric, jazz, or what
have you? : -The act will be enter-
taining to those who are not tired
of seeing vaudeville artists trip the
light fantastic in jazz.
The rest of the show is less en-
couraging. Willing and Jordan
don’t make the most of singing
some very good songs, with the re-
sult that the act is in the “might
have been better” class.
Les Splendids came -over and
brought their roller skates with
them. Climbing atop a table, they
proceed to do some very graceful,
albeit unconventional, stunts. The
applause which they received was
well merited.
The picture, “Half-a-Dollar Bill,”
is rather a sordid story, not well
done. Although Raymond Hatton
and Anna Q. Nillson are included
in the cast, the real stars are a child
actor^ -and his, dog. J. Some good
scenes of the sea are shown.
E. C.
_ son Candy Co., Chicago, ih., Geo. H. Williamson, Pres.
4Z2O S. MICHIGAN SU
EYES EXAMINED
LEjMMHiffCRED^
When the fingers
and brain start to
slow up—page Oh.
Henry I A delicious
way to add' epeedl
Dr. J., A. Stockley, Extracting
and Dentistry, 511 J. M. S. Bldg. '
Need Any Jewelry-—Fel-
lows—Just Charge It
Expert Watch and Jewelry
Repairing
Photoplays
ANNA Q. NILSSON in
“HALF-A-DOLLAR BILL”
Burke Eye Service
IS EASILY REMEMBERED.
YOU. ALWAYS REMEMBER
SATISFACTION.
DR. J. BURKE
Over 20 years in the same location.
230 South Michigan Street
SOUTH BEND, IND.
Burke’s Glasses Fit the Eye.
Your 1923 sport model SUIT can be
REMODELED INTO 1924
CONSERVATIVE STYLE
S g e—1
INTERURBAN TAILOR SHOP
Upstairs as you get off the Car
■ Pathe.News Topics of The .Day
North Michigan St.
Books and
Supplies
' Office Phone Main 513
Residence Phone Main 858
Dr. J R, McMeel
415 Farmers’ Trust Bldg.
Office:Hours 2. to 4; 7 to 8' . ■
212 S. Michigan St.
- Blackstone Theater Bldg.
! ^Ropers'Stores In Indiana, Ohio and Illinois
At-the Blackstone
‘The ‘Light That Failed” may
justly be entered in the chronicle
of pictures worth while.' It is beau-
tifully done, and the plot strikes
more chords bn . the -heartstrings
than Beethoven ever coaxed from a
Steinway grand.
A concentrated. fire of pathos, is
used throughout the play, and is
not only. appealing; but also effec-
2 more weeks
to buy your i
Prom Ticket
j H. LEMONTREE
South Bend’s Leading Optometrist
•J and Manufacturing Optician
. ' 222 ft S. Michigan Street -
Phone Lincoln 6504
DR. FRANK J. POWERS
: Office at University Infirmary
Hours 12:30 to 4	'
Residence Phone, Main 3346
1 - Office: Cor. .Colfax Ave. and La-
fayette Blvd.
Residence: 215 S. Taylor St.
| Dr. J. B. BERTELING i
-n Office, Main. 675. Res., Main .636
TELEPHONES
South Bend, Ind.
Kogers Service Eliminates the Risk
tive. Judging , from . suspicious
noises during the show, we will
wager there wasn’t a dry handker-
chief among the feminine members
of the audience.
The closing scene is particularly
touching, and swells the lump in
the throat almost to the point of
strangulation.
This film is the screen version of
Rudyard Kipling’s novel of the
same name. The cast includes
Jacqueline Logan, Percy Marmont,
Sigrid Holmquist, and David Tor-
rence. Mr. Marmont is especially
pleasing in his part as Dick Heldar,
the artist.
The vaudeville is consistently
good throughout. The best act of
the three is 'Yerkes’ Orchestra.
These strolling syncopaters are
aided by Irene Roth, who does a
highland fling in a convincing man-
ner, and also by Charles Hart and
Goldie Blue, a 'duet of tinted artists
who inject a shot of, pep into the
act. Despite the fact that Goldie’s
legs are the most perfect pair' of
parenthesis we have ever seen, she
has no trouble moving around and
keeping Charlie busy in trying to
find her.
P. C. M.
BOY SCOUTS
Some time ago Brother ’ Constan-
tine organized a troop of Boy
Scouts among the Minims. The
troop has been progressing rapidly,
and the boys of St. Edward’s have
already passed many of the tests.
On Tuesday night, Brother Alphon-
sus will entertain the troop with a
lecture on birds, which will be illus-
trated with slides.
SENIOR PINS
. Special fillers for the “Notre
Dame Note Books” which were sold
by the Senior class, have been pur-
chased and are now on sale at the
news-stand. There is only a limited
number of these fillers on hand.
Seniors who have not obtained
their class pins are again reminded
that after April 1 all pins which are
ordered must be obtained at an in-
creased price.	'	\
PALACE
SPRING FESTIVAL WEEK,
• Now Playing
TRIPLE HEADLINE BILL '
“Everybody Step”
Eddie Nelson & Co.
“First Love”
WILLING & JORDAN
• I	I ■
Les SPLENDID’S ,
Don’t Wail About It
Write About It
This is your column
The DAILY is not responsible . for any
facts or opinions expressed in this depart-
ment. Contributors writing anonymously
must let the editor-in-chief know their
real names; otherwise their letters can-
not be published.
Editor, the DAILY:
I was interested in the leter in
Sunday’s Wa'il, signed
Now I would be further
if Q. E. D. would take
inches of space to tell
public what in the name
it’s all about.
Q. E. D.
interested
five more
his eager
of heaven
C. M. k
Bridge Over St. Mary ’s
Lake being Constructed
A bridge is under construction
on St. Mary’s lake near • Dujare
Seminary. The bridge will join a
small island in the lake with the
mainland. It is rustic in appear-
ance and of the same type as the
one which, connects another island
in the lake on the shore. The pil-
ing is being painted with copper
paint to protect it from decay and
will also serve as a foundation, for
another coat of paint of wood color.
The purpose in doing this is that
the island, will be used for the'en-
tertainment of the brothers of the
Seminary when a summer house
will be built upon it. '
Dr. J. A. Stoeckley, Extracting,
and Dentistry, 511 J. M. S. Bldg.

HEADQUARTERS
L OFC. EMBLEMS
Carroll Loop Team
Sets New Record
Carroll hall’s undefeated cage
artists, in taking their final game
from the! Brownson tossers by the
close margin of 21 to 20, have not
only won the cup title of interhall
champions of the University, but
have also, in playing through the
season with an untarnished sched-
ule, hung up a record that will
probably remain for some time to
come in interhall basketball history.
As far back as. can-be traced, Car-
roll is the first cage team to go
through an entire season without
a taste of defeat. It is true that
at times Carroll was hard pressed
and at times lagging, but it always
succeeded in copping the heavy end
of the score at the final whistle.
For the success of the team is
due. the efforts of Noble Kizer, star
varsity tosser, and Vince McNally,
captain of the Carroll team, who
have coached the team from the be-
ginning; to Paul Sagetetter, man-
ager of the team, and to Father
John Devers, who took an active
part in supervising the team. Tak-
ing an unusually strong amount of
basketball material, these, men de-
veloped and trained a squad which
now .occupies the pinnacle of suc-
cess in the interhall league.
In nine games the Carroll shoot-
ers gathered a total of 190 points
and were scored upon for a total
of 130 points, or an average of 21
to . 15. In looking back over the
record of the team can be seen the
closeness of the games; Carroll nos- -
ing both Badin and Brownson out
by one point,, and the. Carroll-
Sophomore game going an extra
period, Carroll coming out two
points ahead.
I The following men comprise the
championship squad: Vince Mc-
Nally, Joe Maxwell, John Howard,
Leo Herbert, Dick Lloyd, John Mc-
Nally, Ray Dahman, Emmett Ker-
wan, Charles . O’Neill, Joe Boland,
Bart Favero, and Bill Sullivan.
Listed below is the team’s rec-
ord:
Carroll, 26; Cadillac, 18.
Carroll, 12; Badin, 11.
Carroll, .15; Corby, 8.
Carroll, 23; Freshman, 16.
Carroll, 29; Sophomore, 27 (ex-
tra period). z
Carroll,. 25; Walsh 11.
Carroll, 18; Day, 14.
/ Carroll, 22; Sorin, 12.
Carroll, 21; Brownson, 20.
I
g
$
“A wise old owl
sat in an oak .
The more he saw
the less he spoke
The less he spoke
the more he heard.
Why can’t we all
be like that bird?”
Your education depends
largely on what you see.
Many failures are due to’
faulty vision. The anti-
dote is Meigs’ Glasses.
dtfouri
oaockj^
Oliver Hotel Building
- 207 West. Washington
Henry!
A Fine Candy
10c Everywhere

Mi mmr daily
ON THE LEVEL
11 \	By LARRY KELLY
Last fall Jim Thorpe, predicted
' that Johri Levi, mighty Haskell full-
back, would be the greatest' all-
round Indian athlete of all time.
Jim made this remark after seeing
the full-blooded Arapahoe redskin
, run. 85 yards through the entire
Minnesota tearii for a touchdown.
Arid ‘ it is ’ probable that, Thorpe’s
statement will be. realized.
Levi is a good basketball center
and generally registers’six or seven
baskets. In a dual meet with the
University of -Nebraska' last year,
Levi was high point man; His point
score in that meet .was 15 1-2. His
best records in track to . date are:
IG-pound shot, 43 feet 7 1-2 inches;
discus throw, 136' feet 8 inches;
. high jump, 6 feet; 120-yard high
hurdles, 15.3 seconds;' 220!-yard low
hurdles, 25.2 . seconds. ,:
However, John ’ is- :particularly
adapted to the gridiron;; His long-
est pass completed in a game is re-
corded at 58 yards but in exhibi-
tion passing in Minneapolis he flung
the pigskin 83 yards. In the Has-
kell-Olympic : club game at Los An-
geles on Christmas Day, he booted
the ball for 72’yeards.
John received.an offer to try out'
with the New York Yankees but it
■ is said that he refused. -
Ellis “Red” Johnson, official ball-
keeper for the New Orleans ball
club last year, is .making good at
the keystone, sack on the Southern
league nine. He handles the ball
> cleverly and spanks -the pitchers
freely for extra-base hits.
Larry Gilbert, manager: of the
club,, was graduated froin the sand-
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
: The FLY-FRONT Coat
The style approved by college
; ■ men of ultra-conservative taste.
Light weight topcoats and winter
(J weights are equally in demand -
] at the prices set so conservatively
' ; low by LUXENBERG.	;
>32-5° M47-50 L
'1 ’ ■ Manufactured and sold exclusively by
;NatLUXENBERG&Bros.
; • •	New address ■■ ■
.841 Broadway . N.W. Cor. 13th St.
-Stuyvesant 9898	New York City
231 Water St.
.' Exeter, N.'H.
Branches
.	863 Broad St.
Newark, N. J-
177 Broadway
New York
Restaurant
- Our Style-memo book will be
, sent free, on request
THE
Doddridge’s 9 Chair
{ barber shop
/ 124 WEST WASHINGTON
lot ranks,. and he gives the force of
boys employed in: the park oppor-
tunities to become baseball stars.
Bob Fitzsimmons,- who was heavy-
weight champion from: 1899 to
1906, used to spar with kangaroos
and tease mules to learn tricks to
use in the ring. Bob had a mule
kicking at him one day, and when a
clever sidestep failed, the’ mule’s
hoof: caught him in the solar plexus
arid Bob spent-several weeks in bed.
According to Billy McCairney,
Firpo’s New York agent,.the giant
Argentine will engage in five bouts
when he returns' to the United
States. He is to meet George God-
frey in Baltimore, Floyd Johnson
near Chicago, Fred Fulton at Fort
Sneling, Tiny Herman and Sol-
dier Jones at places to be selected.
Firpo and Dempsy will again trade
wallops in September. ;
: Joe Benjamin, fast 133-pbunder,
is considered the most handsome
riian' in the resided arena. Benja-
min, who went to Europe with
Dempsey : as . a sparring partner,
would be the champion today, if he
were not so cautious about his an-
atoiny in the ring, according to
many sport writers.
Paul' Berlenbach, the middle-
weight who has been the sensation
in fistiana for the past few months,
CLASSIFIED
LOST—A large size Parker Dudfold. Re-
’ ward. J. Bergman, Sorin._________-, . ■
FOUND—a sum of money. ' 344 Corby.
For Refreshments
After the Show
Visit
The Blackstone
Candy Kitchen
Next to: th e Blackstone
Theatre
VISIT 7.
• Indiana’s Largest
Dental Office 7.,
Not only; in Size"■ and Equipment
but Quality of Work as well.
J. T7H0LMES
T?. DENTIST
Corner Michigan'& Washington Sts.
' Over Frunins-Drug Company.
Look for, Signs	Lincoln 6819
THE: PLACE TO EAT
: WHEN IN TOWN
COURTEOUS SERVICE
WHOLESOME FOOD .
REASONABLE PRICES
IDEAL
LAUNDRY
The Students’ Laundry for ’
Eight Years
$

Spring Grid Training
Starts This Afternoon
Coach Knute K. . Rockne an-
nounced yesterday that spring foot-
ball practice would begin this after-
noon at 3 o’clock and that all can-
didates must be in uniform regard-
less of weather conditions.
Rockne’s spring football session,
which’ will last about six weeks,
will be devoted largely to the drill-
ing of the rudiments of the game
into the new candidates and to the
perfecting of the veterans from the
squad of last season.
The same case will apply at Notre
Dame that will apply to many other
universities throughout the coun-
try,—-that of developing reserve
strength.. The revolutionizing of
football-has given to the second and
third teams more value than they
perhaps ever received before. No
doubt this change in the great col-
lege sport was introduced with the
advent of science into the game in
preference to brawn. .
met his Waterloo at the hands of
Jack Delaney, the Bridgeport sharp-
shooter Friday night.
, Berlenbach had a record of 26
consecutive knockouts to his cred-
it before eritering the ring with De-
laney. Berlenbach was. tod confi-'
dent of victory and-’ made niad
rushes at Delaney without thought
of protecting himself. Jack’s
sfnart generalship and sharp punch-
ing were too much for the inexper-
ienced slugger.	7
		
Chew it after
every meal
It stimulates
appetite and
aids j digestion.
It maices your
food do you more
E4
The J. B. Williams Co.,
Glastonbury,- Conn..
Look for the
pnWnraWnnnnn^ . good. Note' bow
It relieves that stuffy feeling
after'hearty eating.
Whitens teeth,
s w e e t e n s
breath and
it’s the goody
that
L-a-s-t-s.
JOHN H. ELLIS
optometrist :	!
Optholmoligist	I
512-513 J. M. S. Bldg.	I
Phone'Main 419;	ji
Miller-
-'rMueller
Oliver Hotel Shop
103 North Main St.
A few spring suits and top-
coats are here. We will be
glad to show them to you.

Spring hats in both straight
brim and crusher styles.; - :
New ties in both bows and
four-in-hands.
Imported and Domestic
. Men’s Wear
Tuesday, Ma^ck 13, iQ&k
■■ ■ ... —
train leaders to teach in the high
schools. The Dujare unit sent '
about $200 to the missions last
year.
Joseph Monger, president of the
University, unit, reviewed the activ-
ities of the unit and made a state-
ment of ’ the financial results of
some of these activities. The sale
of Christmas cards netted $500 and !
more than $100 was realized on the i
boxing match. About 1500 mite
boxes have been distributed in the !
j halls and will be collected during i
the last week of Lent. All the pro-' J
ceeds collected from thesesources ' 1
will go to the missions. The circu; j
lation campaign resulted in a hun-
dred subscriptions to “The Shield’*
and “The Bengalese.”	’ ;
The meeting was conducted by
Father Hugh O’Donnell, C. S. C.,
who told of the support which
Father O’Hara has given to help the
local unit and to the mission cause
in general.
The way to get ■
the finest shave
The Hinge-Cap is a sure way of identifying
Williams Shaving Cream. And Williams, be-
sides giving you the convenient Hinge -Cap, \
will.improve your shave in three ways:
First, the lather is heavier and holds the
moisture in against the beard;. Quicker and
more thorough softening of the beard. results.
Second, the razor glides more easily through
the Williams-softened beard because Williams
lather lubricates the skin. Lastly, an ingredient
in Williams keeps the skin in good condition
. no matter how heavy your beard nor how
frequently you shave’ . In addition, you’ll enjoy
Williams because it is a pure, natural white
cream without coloring matter of any kind.
Ask.for it.T . ' .	. J	. .
FATHER THILL TALKS
(Continued from Page 1.)
study clubs composed of about
twelve, members. Each member is
to make practical application of
something learned during the
course , of reading. • These courses
will ;be ready by the beginning of
the next scholastic year.
1 Reports were made by the differ-
ent local; chapters on their activi-
ties and progress. Mr. Grairier, of;
Moreau Seminary, said that their
work is' carried on largely in the
form of spiritual; works and by the
discussion of special papers at the
regular meetings. They collect
what, money they can and carry on
an informative correspondence with
foreign missionaries. He reported
that increased vocations are coming
.1 the way of the foreign mission
vow. .Brother Gerald, of Dujare,
said that the aim of his unit is to
:' In bad weather, a :hurry
J call, or for social affairs; a ..
j YELLOW CAB is insur-
■■ ance for comfort, punctual- .
: ity, and' dinstinctipn. ~
YELLOW
'7 CAB
CO.
PHONE MAIN 5200 :
' THE ' THINKING FEL-
LOW CALLS A YELLOW i
DR. R D. DUGGAN
DENTIST
s ...	561 Farmers Trust Building
Office Phone Main 3134
OFFICE PHONE RES. PHONE
- : Main'689 U Maili 1162 & 1347
Dr. EDGAR S. LUCAS
DENTISTRY
Dr. ROBERT F. LUCAS
Extracting and Surgery of
the Mouth and Jaws
612 J. M. S. Building
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA '
■ ' '	1 ’ 1	.. " ■■■ "	*• ...' t. r ■■ . ■ ■.
Two Good Places
to EAT "
.'.v:	at '
■ 7llt)ME77 '
and at the
BELMONT
n; d. students invited
119 NORTH MAIN.
Reach Athletic-Goods
McGregor • Golf - Clubs
/ Wright & Ditson Tennis
Rackets
G.E. Meyer & Sen
. Eat. 1864
HARDWARE
115-17 W. Jefferson Blvd.
‘@eHerr & Herr Co
STUDENTS’ SUPPLIES
. 120 -South Michigan- Street' '