Notre Dame Scholastic Football Pages 
Volume 35 Issue 14 14 December 1901 
NOTRE DAME SCHOi:ASTIC. 2.2>J, 
Our Gridiron Heroes. 

Now that the season of football is over, the 
SCHOLASTIC feels obliged to make mention of 
the moleskin heroes who upheld our prestige 
on the gridiron and fought so nobly in many 
hard struggles for the honour of the Gold and 
Blue. Never before has a Notre Dame eleven 
achieved such a glorious record as the one 
gained by the Varsity of 'oi. The entire 
schedule, a hard one too, was played through 
without a defeat, the Northwestern game 
being conceded as practically a victory for us. 
Our goal line was crossed but three times— 
once on a fluke. 

For the first time we won the proud title of Champions of Indiana, and at the end of the season we ranked as leader of the second division of Western Colleges, Michigan, Wis­consin,, and Minnesota being in a class by themselves. The SCHOLASTIC congratulates the gentlemen of the Varsity on their brilliant showing. All hail to them, to Coach O'Dea, Trainer Butler, Manager Crumley, and the members of the Second Eleven, who all worked faithfully for the success of the Gold and Blue. 
CAPT. ALBERT E . FORTIN (Right Tackle). 

Besides filling the responsible position of Captain, Fortin also took care of right tackle in a very successful manner. During his four years' stay on the team he has won the dis­tinction of being a very heady player, steady and reliable at all times. He is especially clever on defensive work. In the Beloit game he did some brilliant offensive playing which was largely responsible for our victory. The Captain is but twenty years old, weighs 185 pounds, and measures five feet nine inches. 
LOUIS SAMMON (Full-back). 

This is Sammon's second year on the Varsity. Last season he established a reputa­tion for himself in the Michigan game by his line-bucking, but this season he far surpassed all previous efforts. His work all year was closely watched by the critics who are unani­mous in declaring him one of the best full-backs in the West. In addition to his line-bucking abilities, Lou developed into a first-class punter, and several times has kicked seventy yards. Sammon also displayed rare judgment as field captain, his marvellous coolness mak­ing him the ideal man for the position. Lou is but twenty-one years old, five feet nine and a half inches in height and weighs 165 pounds. 
JAMES FARAGHER (Left Tackle.) 
Faragher was one of,the mainstays of the team both on offensive and defensive, work. In his position as tackle he has but few equals in the West. Jim rarely failed „to gain when given the ball, and was a hard man to down when once started. On the defensive he made possible many big gains for our backs by his ready way of open'ng up a hole in the line. Jim is twenty-five years old, is five feet "ten inches in height, and tips the scales at 198 pounds. This is his second year. 
C. L. GiLLEN (Left Guard.) Gillen was one of the most conscientious players on the team. On offensive work he was very strong, and generally managed to make an opening in the line when it was needed. His defensive work was equally brilliant, and but few gains w^ere made through his portion of the line. Nace is twenty-four years of age, weighs 185 pounds, and measures 
five feet ten inches. This is his second year on the Varsity. 
JOHN PICK (Centre.) 
Centre was well taken care of by Pick. His cleverness and ability to handle himself quickly made him more than a match for any of his opponents. Pick is very fast on his feet, and in the Indiana game his speed and deadly tackling prevented several long runs. In passing the ball he is very accurate. On the defensive his work all season was brilliant, and but-few gains were made. through: his territory. This is his last year on the team. Pick is twenty-three years of age, weighs .190 pounds, and is six feet tall. 
F. M. WINTER (Right Guard.) 
For the. past three seasons Winter has held down centre, but this year he was shifted to guard where he did creditable work. " Fat" is a very shifty player and knows how to use his weight to advantage. He is a stonewall on defense, and on offense is very active in opening up a hole for the backs. His clever defensive work was particularly noticeable 
"in the Purdue ganie. "Fat" is twenty-two years of age, weighs 218 pounds, and is five feet eight inches tall. 
JAMES. L. DORAN (Left Half.) 
Dorah, a new man, proved to be a valuable-acquisition to the team. Early in the season' he was placed at end where he did creditable work. Later on, Coach O'Dea decided to tiy 


NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. 
him at half, and the wisdom of his choice was shown in the very first game he played the position. He is good on smashing interference, and as an offensive player has but few equals on the team. In both championship contests he did brilliant work in this respect. "Jim" is twenty-one years old, six feet in height, and weighs 175 pounds. 
H.4RLEY E. KiRBY (Right Half.) 

Kirby was undoubtedly the find of the season, and although this was his first year on the Varsity, he developed into one of the best half-backs Notre Dame ever had. In the Purdue game he did brilliant work on both the offensive and the defensive, and his long runs were a large factor in deciding the contest. He is very fast on his fet^t, a sure tackier, and at hurdling the line has but few equals. Kirby is twenty years of age, weighs 176 pounds, and is six feet in height. 
HENRY J. MCGLEW (Quarter-Back.) 

Our clever little quarter - back won an enviable reputation for himself by his good work. Although he is the lightest man on the team, his vim and dash more than made up for his lack of weight. At quarter-back he passed through the championship contests without a fumble, and during the whole season made but. few. This is a record which few quarter-backs in the country can boast of. Mac is also strong on interference, and more than once has made a long run possible. His clever tackling saved our goal line many times. Mac is twenty years old, weighs 155 pounds, and is five feet eight inches in height. 
F. J, LoNERGAN (Right End). "Happy" was a new man on the team, but before many games were played he became one of the idols of the rooters. His long runs and clever, defensive playing, his fast work in going down the field on punts, and his 
splendid interfering on runs around his end, made him a very valuable-man. In the P. and 
S. game he did some spectacular playing, one time running fifty yards for a touchdown through a crowded field. Happy is nineteen years of age, is five feet nine inches tall and weighs 165 pounds. 
G. NYERE (Left End and Q. B.) 

Early in the season Nyere tried for quarter­back position and in the first few' games did clever work. On account of his fast work in going down the field on punts and his tackling he was shifted round to end, where he proved to be valuable. A bad injury to his arm kept him out of the Purdue and Indiana games, but in the P. and S. and South Bend games he played brilliantly. Nyere is twenty-one years old, weighs 165 pounds, and is five feet nine inches in height. 
GEORGE LINS (Half Back and End). 
Early in the season Lins-was placed at half­back where he did good work. In the Indiana and Purdue games he was tried at ends where his aggressive playing was very much in evidence. He is strong on smashing inter­ference, and generally succeeds in getting through and nailing his man. Lins is twenty-two years old, six feet tall, and weighs 185 pounds. This is his fourth and last year as a Varsity man. 
E. J. PEIL (Guard.) When Gillen received the injury which prevented him from entering the Purdue game. Coach O'Dea and Captain Fortin were at a loss to know what to do for a guard. Peil came to the rescue, and on account of his good showing in practice was chosen to fill the gap. His plucky work in that game is too well known to be commented on. Peil will, no doubt, be a strong candidate for guard next vear. He is twenty years old, stands five 
feet eight inches in height, and weighs 179 pounds. 
D. J. O'MALLEY (Guard and Half-Back). O'Malley was tried at half-back for awhile and proved to be a strong man. His tendency to run high when carrying the ball was a fault which greatly handicapped him. In the North­western game his brilliant defensive work at guard was one of the features. Dominick is 
twenty-four years old, is six feet tall and weighs ig8 pounds. 
J. HANNAN (Half-Back). 
Hannan was unfortunate in the early part of the season, and in the Northwestern game received injuries that prevented him from doing any more active playing. In the game with O. S. U. his work gave great promise, and in the Northwestern game he also did good work. His one fault is slowness in start­ing, but this can be easily remedied by practice. Hannan will be a valuable man next year. He is twenty years of "age, weighs one hundred and seventy-five pounds, and stands five feet ten inches in height. 


230 NOTRE DAME 
J. J. CuLLiNAN (Sub Tackle). 

Joe is a strong, reliable player and when called upon to relieve any of the regular tackles, grave a good account of himself. He 
' ^ ^ , . , , is twenty two years of age, weighs 172 pounds, 
. I . ^ 
and is five feet ten 
F. J. SHAUGHNESSY i^ Shaughnessy is 
. ^ ' . ^, . f ^

 inches in height. , , (Sub End and Q. B.) another new man who 
showed up well when he was called upon. At end he was strong on defensive, but few gains JDeing made against him. Late in the season he was tried at quarter-back on the second team and proved a success. Shaughnessy is but -Eighteen years old, weighs 170 pounds, . andJis 6 feet i ^ inches in height. 
: :­= C. D. COLEMAN (Sub Half-Back.) Coleman is one of the lightest men on the 
team, but-very aggressive. He is good at line-bucking, and a clever defensive player, Coleman is twenty years of age, measures five feet eight inches, and weighs 161 pounds.­
\-ki -n \-Ki /c L XT ir T> 1 V 

W. P.WOOD (Sub Half-Back). • Wood has. plenty of pluck,,and although 
light should make a good man next season, He hits the line low, and when he once gets into the open field is a hard man to down. He is twenty-two years old, weighs. 158 pounds, and" measures five feet nine inches.­
And now a word about the gentlemen of our second eleven. For two long months they bore cheerfully with bruises and bumps that the Varsity might receive that practice which makes perfect. Their work was indeed a self-sacrificing one and worthy of the highest 
. praise. That the Gold and Blue was triumph­ant is due as much to their efforts as to anything else. To these men, therefore^ the SCHOLASTIC extends thanks in behalf of every loyal rooter. McGowan, Fensler, Corley, Funk, Hogan, Herbert, Staples, JelscH, GeaVin and McCuilough constituted the team. 
-Pat O'Dea, whose fame as .a football player is world wide, won new laurels for himself as a coach. He developed the team gradually with the idea of having them in' perfect condition for the two State Championship 
. contests, and in this he was successful. Every man on the team placed the greatest confi­dehce in him, and as a result of this harmony >ye were victorious. Nor must we forget to 
^gwG due: credit 
P. Butler and.to popular. manager
:K-' ^•^.-.^•. .-­

'; . , 

to our genial trainer, Mr. Harry V. Crumley, the most the Varsjty has ever had,

 ' Jos. p. O'REILLY. 
SCHOLASTJC. 

Exchanges. 
" 
.  .  ,  *u  r  u  £  n  
A  new  arrival  on  the. field  of  college  
•  ,.  u  u  u  • j  -1.1. i ­ j  
journ alism  should be r eceived with  kindness,  
r  •  . .  ,.\.  c  T^ /^  r J  

but so promising a paper as the 6. V. 6. Index should be greeted with praise. The verses on 
"Twilight" run along metre after the manner They show ability, and
 * . 
quite smoothly, the of Shelley's ICloud." are worthy, of. praise. 
. " ^ 
^ change of our high regard for The ^'^^'^^^^>' University Hfonthly is excluded by the number for October. The.skilful treatment of "Goiirting in French Canada" increases the interest necessarily found in the-subject­matter. After reading "Music" we must conclude that an old subject may be treated in an interesting, original manner. The writer's point of view is not the ordinary one, and she has given us something above the ordinary essayon this subject. In the October number ., -^-i_i 1 1 ^ ther,e is. a noticeable lack of verse,—a state of affairs that we hope to see soon remedied. -j-j^g one piece of verse is " Solace ^of the 5^^," and it is good. The thought is expressed 
.j ^ metre that has , a pleasing swing, and through the verses there is that rare quality, oricrinalitv 
• ~ * * . ­
Another of our most valued exchanges is the University of Virginia Magazine. Each department is well filled, and whether we look for literary-essays, verses, or short stories, we are sure to find them here. Fiction, we may say, is the most pleasing feature of the magazine. There is always a wealth of verses. impressive, not by number alone but by quality. Another form of fiction so promi­nent in this paper is the short story. In the November number there is a story which shows such skilful treatment that we can not pass it by without particular mention. The length of the introduction may be criticised as unnecessary; even so, the writer does so well that we are very interested and rather prefer the lengthy ihtroduction. "Ari Ordinary Fellow" is the story in question, and the author has succeeded in producing soniething of a literary value far superior to the merit of the ordinary story of our college mc.gazines. Essays, however, are not neglected; and since they contain originality, their literary worth can not bie quiestioned. G. W. B. 






Notre Dame Scholastic Football Pages 
Volume 36 Issue 14 13 December 1902 


NOTRI DAME SCHOLASTIC, 
Notre, Dime,"December J3, 1902. 

Published every Saturday during Term Time at Notre Dame University. 
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office. Notre Dame. Ind. 
TeJtns, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid. 
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame,Indiana. 
The Board of Editors. 

PATRICK J. MACDONOUGH, 1903. FRANCIS F. DUKETTE, Ig02 H. EWING BROWN, I902 ROBERT J. SWEENY, I903 CHARLES A. GOR.MAN, I903 BYRON V. KANALEY, I904 FRANCIS J. BARRY, I903 ROBERT E. HANLEY, I903 HERBERT MEDCALF, I903 EDAVARD F. QUIGLEY, I903 ROBERT E. LYNCH, I903 FRANCIS .MCKEEVER, I903 THO.MAS D. LYONS, I904 

G. A. FARABAUGH, I904 J. PATRICK O'REILLY, I905 
CHARLES L. O DONNELL, I905 

—Christmas, with all its hallowed associa­tions, will soon be here. Vacation begins on December 20, but in the intervening time we have some serious work to do. The bi-monthly examinations- are set for next Thursday and 
. Friday, and if we would not mar the joys that are to follow, we should leave nothing undone to obtain' a creditable per centum. We shall have finished these exercises on Friday, and then good-bye to books and trouble until January 5, when studies are resumed. But if we have less to do with books during vacation we probably shall have more to do with men, and it behooves us that our neighbours do not suffer through our example. What a golden privilege it is to spend Christmas at home, in that sacred spot with the kith and kin we love. We should appreciate the blessing, and by little acts of self-sacrifice and kindness make our stay a miniature of Christ's life here on earth. Self-denial and kindness were His striking characteristics. Before we go, however, a word from the SCHOLASTIC: TO you, boys, with whose life at college our own is so pleasurably interwoven; to our instructors, whose ability and painstaking have brought us to higher 
levels; and to the religious of Holy Cross whose example and devotion to duty have so much to do in bettering our lives, we extend the season's heartiest greeting. May all expe­rience as fully as may be the significance of the Divine message: 
GLORY TO GOD IN THE HIGHEST AND' ON EARTH PEACE TO MEN OF GOOD WILL. 

Our Gallant Lads. 
n
Now that the bumps and bruises, the brill­iant tackles, and the long hours of training that went to make up the football season of '02 are at an end, the SCHOLASTIC feels obliged to make a short review of the work done, and to give each man who contributed his share to make this year's team successful, his due share of credit. The-SCHOLASTIC also feels honored in being able to present the picture of our plucky athletes in this issue. 
The Varsity of this season, despite innu­merable ob­stacles, was a success. Han­dicapped early in the season by the absence of a coach; with a squad of " green " men—but few of last year's team having reported—to contend with, and with other things to fight against, the prospects for an eleven fit to cope with the teams sched­uled, were very disappointing. Indeed, they were gloomy enough to dis­

courage any­one; but Captain Salmon, assisted by the few regulars that were on the ground, entered into the work with the spirit that has always been characteristic of Notre Dame's sons, and in an incredibly short space of time, a squad was at practice. Then the management secured the services of James Farragher, our crack tackle of last year, to coach. "Jim" immediately took charge, and aided by Salmon and Doar, he performed wonders considering the material. Games were lost, it is true, but the memory of the splendid upt-hill fight made by our gallant lads in those 
MANAGER DALEY. 


a^OTRE DAME 
CAPTAIN SALMON. 

few games, laboring, as they were, against almost overwhelming odds, still lives within the breasts of the rooters, and drew favorable comment from almost every paper in the country. The most glorious achievement, however, was the retention of the State Cham­pionship. Indiana was easily defeated early in the season, and then our fellows settled down to prepare for the final struggle with Purdue on Thanksgiving Day. Purdue had every advantage that day; but our plucky band went into the contest determined to cling to the banner at all costs, and cling they did, It was the hardest and most fiercely contested game ever played in this State, and though Purdue played a brilliant game they were unable to wrest the championship from our hands. Taking all things into consideration, the showing made this season is one that we may' well feel proud of. Too much praise can not be given to the gentlemen' of the Varsity and all connected with them. And now a few words about the men composing the team: 
LOUIS J. SALMON (Capt. and FuU-Back). 
Perhaps the niost brilliant player Notre Dame has ever had is our captain and full­back, L. J. Salmon. Salmon is one of the wonders of the football world. His line buck­ing and punting this season were phenomenal. His' work against the Champion Michigan team attracted the attention of every coach 
SCHOJLASTIC. 

and critic in the country, and they,were unanimous in declaring his playing marvellous. The Chicago Daily News picks him for half back on the All-Western Eleven, an honour which is denied him by the other papers because Notre Dame is not a member of the "big nine." In speaking of Salmon, X.\\& News says: " His ability to buck the line is something not seen in every football. In, the game against Michigan, this player by the most indomitable perseverance carried the ball from Notre Dame's goal line far into Michigan territory. Man after man tackled him, but he shook off all the Wolverine stars." Salmon is twenty two years of age, weighs 165 pounds and is five feet nine and a* half inches. 
J.AMES L. DoAR (Half Back). The coolest, headiest, and most consistent player on the team is our star half-back, James 
L. Doar. No better defensive player has ever donned a football suit, while in carrying the ball and also in forming interference, "Jim " has but few equals. Aside from his brilliant playing, Jim's knowledge of football makes him a very valuable man. He was of great assistance to Farragher and Salmon in pointing out the weaknesses of the men, and gave them many good pointers. Doar is but twenty-one years of age, is six feet one and a half inches in height and weighs 170 pounds. 
HEXRY J. MCGLEW (Quarter). 
McGlew's abilities are well known to the rooters. He is the pluckiest and most -deter­mined player Notre Dame has ever had. At quarter he has a record of which any man in the country might well feel proud. During the past two seasons he has not made a single fumble, although a large number of the games have been played on fields so sloppy that to pass through without fumbling seemed almost miraculous, but McGlew passed through with a clean record. His interfering, running back punts and tackling are also marvel­lous, and make him one of the best all-around men on the team. Mac is twenty years of age, tips the scales at 156 pounds and is five feet seven and a half inches in height. 
DOMINICK O'MALLEY (Centre). 
The weakest part of the team this year was the line, but in centre position O'Malley proved to be a tower of strength, and was, in fact, the mainstay of the team. O'Malley possesses all the requisites for a good centre. He has accuracy and speed in passing the ball, is [quick in following the plays, and is 
nO.MINICK K. O'MALLEY. 

also an exceptionally good tackier. In the Michigan game he outplayed the famous Gregory, and was a large factor-in the splendid showing made in that game. O'Malley is the largest man on the team. He weighs 202 pounds, is six. feet one and a half inches high and is twenty-four years old. 
FRANCI.S J. LoNERGAx (End). 

"Happy" is a strong offensive player, and in carrying the ball did brilliant work. His best game of the season was against Purdue. In that game he did some clever tackling, but the condition of the field prevented his usual long runs. He is twenty years of age, stands five feet eleven inches in height, and weighs 165 pounds. 
GEORGE NYERE (End). 

Nyere was one of the mainstays of the team, and played good consistent football all season. He is very fast in getting down the field on punts, and with "Happy" at the other end generally managed to bring down his man. His ability to dodge made him a very hard man to tackle. He is also a good defensive player and a hard and sure tackier. N3'ere is five feet eleven inches in height, weighs 165 pounds and is twenty years of age., 
J. E. GiLLEN (Gaard). Gillen was unfortunate this season, receiving a sprained ankle which kept hind out of the 
majority of the games. He played a splendid game against both Michigan and O. M. U. 

SCHOLASTIC 

Nacc is a very hard man to handle at guard. He is fwenty-three years of age, weighs 185 pounds and is five feet six and a half inches in height. 
HARVEY E. KIRBV (Half-Back). 
Kirby was out of condition all season, taking part in but one or two games.- Had he been in shape, he would no doubt have added greatly to the strength of the team. He is six feet in height, weighs 170 pounds and is twenty years old. 
JOSEPH J. CULLINAN (Tackle). 
This is CuUinan's first year at tackle. He is not a heavy man, but his aggressiveness and speed more than make up for his lack of beef. He is the best man in the line at breaking up plays, and was never found shirking. Another strong point Joe has is in carrying the ball, gaining many yards for the Gold and Blue. Joe is twenty-two years old, is five feet ten inches in height and weighs 175 pounds. 
E. MCDERMOTT (Half-Back.) 
McDermott is'one of the. most promising of the new men of this year's squad. He is strong on interference, a good, nervy tackier, and will, no doubt, become a valuable man. He is eighteen years of age, weighs 165 pounds and is five feet nine and a half inches in height. 
ARTHUR STEINER (Tackle and Guard). Steiner played at guard early in the season, 
JAMES L. DOAR. 
< 

5 
O 
to 
but during the latter part he was shifted to captain were in a dilemma as to whom to tackle because of his aggressiveness. His tack­put in his place, the versatile Shaughnessy ling was one of the features of the Michigan appeared upon the scene, and relieved their game. He is also a first year man who gives troubles. A good tackier, fast in running great promise, being nervy, and also a steady, back punts, an accurate passer, and, above all, conscientious player. He weighs 167 pounds, aggressive, Shaughnessy filled in splendidly is twenty-one years of age, and stands five at quarter. His running back of punts was one feet eight inches in height. of the features of the Michigan game. The longest run' of that memorable game is also 
MICHAEL L. FANSLER (Tackle). chalked up to his credit. During the Indiana 
Fansler is one of the most conscientious game his shoulder was dislocated, and this 
players on the team. Last year he was a kept him out of the game the rest of the 
member of the "scrubs," but by his persever­. season. He is twenty-one years of age, weighs 
ance he won himself a place on this year's 170.pounds and is 5 feet 11 inches in. height. 
team. "Mike" is aggressive and a good defen­For those gentlemen of the second eleven sive pla\''er, and with a little more experience who so nobly sacrificed their recreation hours, will make a valuable man. He is but nineteen and without a grumble underwent all the years of age, weighs 168 pounds and is six bumps and bruises, so that the Varsity might feet three inches in height. 

receive that practice which makes perfect, WILLIAM DESMOND (Guard and Tackle). 
the SCHOLASTIC has nothing but words of In the early part of the season when those 
praise.'The spirit they showed all season— in charge of the team were at a loss for line­
the only true college spirit—is one they men, Desmond put on a suit and came to the J 
may well feel proud of, and one that we rescue. He was first played at tackle, and did 
would like to .see emulated by. the entire brilliant work at that position, but later on.he 
student bod\-. Several of these j men have was shifted to guard, where his quickness 
the stuff in them to. make, good football made him a tower of strength. Last year he 
players, arid a few of them would have shown played on the Woodstock, 111., High School. ,
.up in some of the games but for injuries. 
team. He is twenty-two years old, weighs igo' D. O'Connor, R. Fisher, Draper and Funk pounds and is five feet eleven inches in height! did. work that gives great prornise for the His work gives great promise for next season., future. Coughlin, Beekum, and Joergens, who 
were ineligible because of classes,,but reported NATE SILVER (End). . ; ' : " ifor. practice every day, deserve the highest 
Silver is the, smallest man on the team, but4' 

praise for, their loyalty and devotion. The his dash, and nerve more than make up, for other riien, McKeon, Neizer, McDerriiott and his lack of weight. He is a shifty little fellow Mills,came out later in the season, but for on his feet, and at end he uses very gbpd them also the SCHOLASTIC has words'of praise. 
;. Manager Daly and his able, assistant, H. J. 
judgment in watching the plays. - His tackling 

McGlew, deserve great credit for the success is sure and effective, and during the Purdue they achieved. They had almost insurmount­gam.e he broke through the interference and able difficulties to overcome, but they worked downed, his man in a wonderful manner. Last 
heart and soul for the success of, .the team year he played end and quarter on the Chicago and in the end came out with flying colours. North Division High School team. He * is . : Trainer Butler passed through another eighteen years old, is five feet six inches in successful year. Handicapped, as we were by 
having so few eligible players^he loss of aheight and weighs 150 pounds. 
single player meaning perhaps the disorganiz­NICHOLAS R. FURLONG (Sub. Guard). ' . ing of the team—Butler performed wonders in Nicholas is one of the best utility men on keeping these men in shape for such a hard 
schedule. That he was successful we all know. 
the team and can be relied on to fill any of And now we wind up with a few words about the line positions with credit. Considering Coach Farragher. " Jim" did wonders with that this was practically his first-year of 

•our line-men, who were almost all light and football he (lid remarkably. well, arid should inexperiencedl Moreover, he instilled^ into be one of our most valuable men next season. them that fighting spirit which brought about He is twenty-two years of age, weighs 160 such,good results against heavier and more 
experienced teams. His work speaks for itself. 
pounds, and is, five feet ten inches in height, 

Closing, the SCHOLASTIC wishes .^ all these > F. J. SHAUGHNESSY (Quarter). .­
gentlemen a merry Christmas and a happy and When McGlew was injured and coach;and prosperous.New Year.;, J P. O'Reilly. 
•'--.\ 


Notre Dame Scholastic Football Pages 
Volume 37 Issue 14 19 December 1903 
244 NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. 
Mr Cockran's brilliant effort lasted almost two hours, and throughout that period the audience hung with rapture on his words. His address was a forceful, most convincing and impressive vindication of the Catholic Church. As became a devoted member of that Church he attended the students' Mass in the Chapel of the Sacred Heart Tuesday morning, the feast of the Immaculate Conception, and a few hours later started for New York, bringing with him, we hope, impressions as pleasant as those which his visit has produced at Notre Dame. 
• MAURICE F. GRIFFIN, '04. 
One of. the most coveted prizes within the reach of the students at Notre .Dame is the gold medal for oratory, donated by the Hon. William P. Breen, LL. D., of Fort Wayne, Tnd. This inducement, combined with the ambi­tion, industry and ability of the contestants, accounts for the remarkable display of eloquence, known as the oratorical compe­tition, which was held- in Washington Hall last Monday. The contest this year aroused very unusual interest, for not a few of the candidates are veterans of the victorious inter-collegiate debating teams, men of tried worth and possessing many of the natural and acquired accomplishments of the orator. 
It was therefore a battle royal; honors were not won lightly. 
The efforts of the competitors were of a high order both in matter and delivery, and had we space we might justly comment on the individual merit. So evenly matched were some of the candidates that in the total ranking Maurice F, Griffin and Byron V. Kanaley received equal awards. The clause in the Indiana State Oratorical Constitution which provides "that in case of a tie in the ranking, the orator having the highest average grades in delivery shall be awarded first prize." determined in favor of Mr. Griffin who was accordingly declared victor. This gave Mr, Kanale}'- second place. Mr. MacNamara was third, Mr.^Farabaugh fourth, Mr. Gormley fifth, Mr. Wimberg sixth and Mr. Proctor seventh. Mr. Griffin is therefore Notre Dame's rep­resentative in the Indiana Inter-Collegiate oratorical contest to be held next February. In that competition we hope he will heighten Notre Dame's reputation and win further glory for himself. P. J. MACDONOUGH.'03. 
The Varsity of J 903, 
Enough has been written by admiring critics, and others as well, in praise of the sturd)' men who performed so creditably this fall on the gridiron for the Gold and Blue to fill one large volume, but still we feel obliged to give a few columns to a brief summary of their achievements which brought so' much credit to themselves and their Alma Mater. Led by a captain whose name is familiar wherever the pigskin finds favor, these gallant lads made a record that will be remembered at Notre Dame for years to come. What student, whether he was fortunate enough to have been a witness to the contest, or had anxiouslv listened in Washingfton Hall to the stirring reports sent in b}^ Mr. McKeever, shall ever forget that thrillinp- sfame with Northwestern on the memorable fourteenth of November? 
After, repulsing nine savage attacks on their goal line, the Varsity men not only forced Northwestern back, but during the greater part of the second half the}'- com­pelled the Purple men to act on the defensive, and threatened to score on more than one occasion. Their playing that day was a revelation (to football enthusiasts ever3'-where, 


NOTRE DAME 

and lavish praise was given them b}'^ even the most prejudiced. It is not on this game alone, however, that the men of the Varsity .made such an enviable-.record.' The goal line remained uncrossed during-the entire season, the only.team in. the West.that can . make this proud boast: But some say, this teams Notre Dame played, with the exception of Northwestern, were of the second class. True, the}' were of the so-called second class, nevertheless man}'^ of them proved stumbling-blocks to some of the leaders of the "Big Nine," while Notre Dame defeated all her opponents . in .decisive fashion. This is the . third consecutive year that Notre.Dame has held the.title to the Indiana ChamJDionship. 
;^ Prospects at the beginning of the season,, as far as material was oncerned,- Avere .the brightest, in j'^ears; but Avithout the- assistance of :a coach it was thought that this splendid material would go • to . waste and ' whatever honors Notre Dame should, win on the grid­iron. Avould be gained by a few individual stars. Captain Salmon was entrusted with; the task of coaching his men as well as playing, but though unbounded. faith existed in his abibt)'' to do either, it was thought the double duty would prove too much, and that it would be impossible for him to round the team into form. It was an:undertaking sufficient to test, the mettle of any man, but Salmon, with that sturd}'- resoluteness that has. characterized his. playing in man}'-a hard-fought, gridiron-battle, bravety set.himsell to the work before him, and aided by the good spirit of his teanir mates, succeeded nptonty in rounding the team -into ' form, but also in turning out, the most successful eleven that has- ever' represented Notre. Dame. Chief, of police McWeeney of ;South Bend, at . one time a coach here, gave-valuable aid to the golden topped captain just prior to the Northwestern ; game, and was largely instrumental in "infijsing that fighting spirit into the men that brought 

SCHOLASTIC. 

knew," although "green," soon learned the game and was a tower of strength, while the shifting of "Happy" Lonergan to half filled the half-back gap to perfection. Nyere .was also shifted-to half, Shaughnessy and McGlew filling the ends, making up altogether the fastest back field- and- the fleetest and most.reliable ends yet seen at the University. Contrary to the sj'stem generally in vogue 
at the University, the Varsity of '03 was 
developed by degrees, the team being 
rounded into form to- meet: the occasion. A 
glance at the record given below is sufficient 
to prove the worth of this system, and to 
Trainer Holland is ' praise due for this 
innovation. A remarkable feature of the year.'s 
work too, was the wonderful ease with-whieh 
our old-time- rivals, DePauw, P. and S. and 
0..M. U.', were defeated. Two hundred and 
ninety-two points were scored in 310 minutes 
of. actual pla}', nearly a point a minute. The 
-following is. the-.'season's record: 
. CAPT. LOUIS J. SALMON (Full-back). Four }'ears ago, when Salmon came out for the team he was tried at end and. immediately made good. He filled this position until the Michigan game when he was shifted to full­back. His .playing in that game is still fresh in the minds of the students; and his feat of carrying the ball against the Wolverines' boasted defense for a distance of eighty yards, immediate^ stamped him as one of-the best line-buckers in the .business. Two years later he again went, up against -Yosts' famous machine, but. the defense which had proved impregnable against the stars of the country 
•weakened-before-the terrific line smashes of the mighty Salmon. On defensive work too he has. but- fe»v equals, and in the Northwestern game of this 3''ear it was his magnificent work in this "department that prevented North­western from scoring. His fame as a line 
-bucker, puntei, "ind all-round football .player extends .from coast to coast, and the past two years he'was selected as All-"Western full­back.. Walter, Camp, the greatest football critic in the country, gives him this position on the All-American-3d team, and would have given'him higher honors if he had played in 
-more games against tbe "Big Nine." .This 
them so much: glory,"but "outside .of this, 
3''earc,orapleted his- fourth and last on the Salmon worked alone. The record he-made, Varsit}'. iHt .is 23 3'ears of age, weighs 175 handicapped as he was, is phenomenal and lbs and-.is'-5-feet 9J^ inches in height. 
certainly worth}^ of the. highest praise. • 
' ; HENKY ;J.:MCGLEW .: (.Left End). The majority of the men.of.this year!s team 
This ,js.* also. McGlew's last year on the 

iwere veterans, but earl}';. In. the season: the ": Varsity, which, means, the^ loss of one of'the great difficult}', encountered-.was to fill-in the' . most reliable as .well as the nerviest players gaps left!)}' O^Malle}', Doar and .Gilleni This -'  that .'^e ver . wo re a Notre ^ Dam e u h i f 6 rm. Fas t 
on: runningrdown-.punts, a sure tackier, and •puzzle, ;;hpwever,-,was; sbpn.^sqlved.'; Sheehari,.• 
the: headiestMnterference player; on the team, a pro'mi "hen t,'member, of • last year.'s;In'ter-Hall; 
McGlew could always be depended upoii\ was tried at centre and proved a find; Patrick 
and,\yhenever "Fuzzy" was in the game, the Beacom, " the gi'eatest guard the West ever rooters felt confident that-whatever position 

IVOTRE DAME SCHOLA.->riC. 
he occupied would be well taken care of. For two years he played quarter-back, and. no speedier or surer.man ever handled the pigskin. During this lime he never had a fumble, and this too despite the fact that in some of the hardest games he received injuries that would have made many a stronger man quail. His tackling in the open field was "also wonderful, and not once has he failed to bring down his man. This season he played end. How well he played is attested by the fact that no gains were registered in his territory. Early in the season he was pretty well battered up, but pluckily refused to quit the game. His strong point was in boxing the tackle on the offen­sive, and many a run made off tackle \vas due to his clever "boxing." His best game 
•was the Northwestern when his tackling and end runs was a feature. "Fuzz)'-" is 22 years of age, is 5 feet 8 inches in height and weighs 160 pounds 
FRAncis J. SH.-VUGHNESSY (Right End). This year Notre Dame was fortunate in possessing two such ends as ''Shag" and McGlew, and we feel safe in sa3nng that no better pair of ends could be found in any of the colleges. " Shag," tall and powerful, is a whirlwind in action, and a very hard man to stop when carrying the ball. He was one of the best ground gainers of the year, and many long, sensational runs are chalked up to his credit. On jdefensive work he proved a tower of strength, not only in guarding his own position, but also in blocking plays off tackle. He has been chosen by his team­mates to captain the Varsity of '04, a very popular choice with the students, because of his steadiness and the earnestness "with which he enters into the game. This is his second year. The new captain is 2*1 years . old, stands 5 feet 11^-inches in height and weighs 178 pounds. 
Jos. J. CuLLiNAN (Left"Tackle). "Jepers" Cullinan was one of the strong men of the line. His dash and agressiveness and his great ability to smash up plays hurled against tackle made him a very valuable man, and but few gains were made through, him. His ground-gaining abilities were also a strong factor in Notre Dame's success, and seldom did he tail when called upon for a gain. "Jepers" ^is one of the hardest and most conscientious players on . the team. If he continues to improve during the season of '04, as well ds. he did the past, he will have few equals on the western gridiron. Joe is twenty-three years old, weighs 177 pounds, and stands five feet ten inches. He has been elected alternate captain for next season. 
FRANCIS J. LONERGAN (Right Half). Not since the days of the famous "Tiger 
Lilly," John Farley, has such a dashing half­back been seen on our gridiron as the rooters' "idol," "Happy" Lonergan. This year he was changed from end to half-back, which proved to be a wise move, as he was the best and most consistent ground gainer of the year. Quick to take advantage of any opening, and a clever dodger, he made many long runs which thrilled the bystanders and caused the rooters to rejoice. His playing in the Northwestern game was sensational, and those who witnessed it will never forget his long end runs and brilliant defensive playing which were the chief features of that famous' game. "Happy" is twenty-two years old, weighs 168 pounds, and is five feet ten inches high. This is his third year. 
GEORGE T. NYERE (Left-Half). . Nyere, like his team-mate, Lonergan, is a dodger and squirmer of the first class. Many of the touchdowns scored by the Gold and Blue can be credited to his long runs. He is very quick on his feet, a hard man to down; but his strongest points are in running^ back punts and in tackling in the open field, in which departments he ranks among the first. This is also his third year of Varsity football. He is twenty-two years of age, stands five feet nine and a half inches in height and tips 1:he scales at one-hundred and sixty-five pounds. ARTHUR STEINER (Right Tackle). 
The line-men seldom if ever get their due amount of credit, although in most cases they are responsible for the star plays of others. Steiner was not a "grand stand" player, but one of those earnest, steady pluggers who play good ball from beginning to end, without any flourishing, and a very difiScult proposi­tion for anyone to handle. He'is also one of the coolest and headiest players on the team. Steiner also deserves unbounded praise for the spirit he manifested early in the season, when we were in need of veterans, he donned a suit" and came to the rescue, although he had previously announced his intention of quitting the game because of the number of heavy classes he was obliged to carry, this being his senior year. This was his third year on the team. He is-twenty-two years old, five feet eight inches in height, and weighs one-hundred and seventy-five pounds. 
NATE SILVER (Quarter-back). The "baby" of the team makes up for his lack of. stature and weight by his quickness and, aggressiveness. He filled the place of the crack quarter, McGlew, in a very creditable manner, and" rarely made a misplay. In call­ing signals also he displayed good judgment, while his running back punts and tackling were of the' highest order. This is/but his second year. He vveighs 150 pounds, and his height is five-feet seven inches. 
24.8 NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. 
NICHOLAS FURLONG (Right Guard). 
Nick is one of the lightest linemen in the business, but despite his lack of weight he was one of the strongest men in the line. His determination and pluck helped him against many-a man of twice his weight, and especially on defense when he put up his best game. Nick is twenty-two years old, five feet nine inches in height and weighs i6o pounds. This was his second year. 
PATRICK BEACOM (Left Guard). 

"The greatest guard the West ever knew," was the song the rooters sang about Beacom, and he^ certainly lived up to the reputation they gave him. Of herculean strength and unusually active for such a big man, Patrick was the mainstay of the team, doing brilliant work all season. This was his first year, and judging from his work, he is the most valuable man we have had in years. He weighs 215 pounds, is six feet two and a half inches in height and twenty-two years old. 
CLARENCE J. SHEEHAN (Centre). Sheehan was the "find" of the squad. He put up a steady, aggressive article of football all season, and handled the pigskin in clever style for a new man. He is twenty years old, is six feet tall, and weighs 180 pounds. EDWARD MCDERMOTT (Half-Back). Ed. showed his mettle last season, but this year he did not arrive until rather late, and was given but few opportunities to display his abilities. He is a half of the slashing, driving order, and a star at smashing interference. 
LAURENCE MCINERNY (End). 

Mclnerny came from Elgin High School where he had some experience as an end. He is a strong player on defense, and gives promise of developing into a first-class, all-round man. He earned his monogram in the DePauw game. 
MICHAEL L. FANSLER (Tackle). 

"Mike,".who played a good game at tackle last season, was compelled to lay off because of injuries. In the Northwestern game he was forced to retire before the close of the first half because of a bad knee. . 
RICHARD VV. DONOVAN (Half). 

Donovan earned his monogram in the DePauw game. He is a strong, willing player and with a little more experience should become a good back. Last year he was full back on St. Vincent's college team of Chicago. 
JOHN P. O'PHELAN (Guard). 

- O'Phelan, the Inter-Hall star of last year, won an N. D. in the DePauw game through his aggressiveness and speed. He is one of the "grittiest" men of the squad. 
Now a few words about the spirited men of the Reserves, often erroneously called the "Scrubs." Draper, Funk, and Dillon played in a few of the minor games, and convinced 
•us that they had in them the proper stuff The others, Neizer, Kasper, and Bracken were not so fortunate, but this did not deter them from remaining loyal to the" end, for which they merit all the more praise. Conway and Kane were also out in this squad for a while. 
One thing that impresses a person in look­ing over the line-ups of the different games played, is the small number of changes neces­sitated by injuries, which goes to prove that the men were in the best of physical con­dition. This was a large factor in the success ot our eleven, and to Trainer Holland is Hue the credit for the splendid physical condition enjoyed by the men all season. 

Manager Daly must also come in for his share of praise. He bore the brunt of the work, arranging dates, purchasing supplies, attending to little details here and there, and he came out of the ordeal with flying colors. 
In  closing,  the  SCHOLASTIC,  in  behalf  of  
the  Faculty  and  the  entire  student  body,  
congratulates  the  gentlemen  of  this  year's  

squad, both the regulars and reserves, upon their splendid record, and wishes them a merry Christmas and a happy and prosperous New Year! JOSEPH P. O'REILLY. 
Personals. 

—Father Evers '79, pastor of St, Andrew's Church, New York City, stopped off to visit Notre Dame on his return from Chicago. His many friends among the faculty and students were glad to see him. 
—In the educational number of the St. Louis Western Watchman appears the picture and graduating address of Mr. Robert E. Hanley; a genial and versatile member of last year's class. On reading Mr. Hanley's address in the SCHOLASTIC, the editor of the St. Louis paper wrote to Notre Dame for permission to reprint it, which he obtained. We take pleasure in quoting the following introductory comment: 
- Robert E. Hanley's graduating address at Notre Dame University, Notre Dame, Ind., last June, will be read with interest by all who reside in that vast stretch of territory ceded to this country by Napoleon just a hundred years ago. His subject was: "Economic Developments, of the Louisiana Purchase." Mr. Hanley resides with his parents, Mr. and Mrs. K J. Hanley, at Wardner, Idaho. He entered Notre Dame University m 1899, having made his preparatory studies with the Jesuits in Spokane; in June, 1903, he was graduated, receiving the degree of Bachelor of Philosophy.. During his stay at Notre Dame he was prominent in athletics, in debate and m class affairs, and was one of the most popular members of his clsss. He is a member of the Knights of Columbus, South Bend, Ind., council. It is Mr. Hanley's intention to study law. 
NOTE.—Other personals, reports of concerts, society meetings aud card of sympathy are excluded for want of space and will appear • in our next issue.—ED. 





Notre Dame Scholastic Football Pages 
Volume 38 Issue 13 17 December 1904 
The Varsity of 1904. 
[T was Avithout regret that another 
IS ^ page of Notre Dame's football '^ti^^^n history ^vas turned down on "^^fi*^^- Thanksgiving Day, for the record 

made b\' the VarsitA- of 1904- fell far below the standard set b\' the elevens of the past three A'cars. But the poor showing made this year does not reflect in any wa}' upon the abihtA' of Coach Salmon, nor upon the pluck or abilit}' of the men who made up the eleven. The Avhole cause ot the disastrous season can be set down to two causes—the lack of material and the frequent injury of the plaA-ers—neither of which Avas to have been foreseen by those in charge in time to have been avoided. Ot the championship eleven of 1903 Ave lost our entire back-held, both tackles, an end and one guard. This in itself was a serious obstacle to overcome, and it Avas seen after the first week of practice, that there was a woeful lack of material from which to 
>pick men to fill the vacant jDOsitions. Out of the squad of twenty-five there were but sixteen who were qualified by their classes to represent Notre Dame on the gridiron. Of the new men the majority were without previous experience and were very light, but Coach Salmon set to Avork to A\-hip his men into shape for the season. It was at this stage that the injuries commenced and kept up during the rest of the season. In quick succession, McNerne3^, Guthrie, Heal A', Silver, Shaughnessy and Church AA-ere injured so as to be forced to retire from the game. The lack of men forced Trainer Holland to ]Dut his cripples back in the game before thcA- had recoA'ered, and so our team ahA^aA'^s had one or more cripjDles in its line-up. And so AA'ith one or' moi-e of the best players in the college on the side­lines in CA^eiy game it is no AA'^onder that the Varsity Ax^as unable to .put forth its best game. The loss of the Kansas contest at least can-be laid to the number of cripples in our line-up, for it was not until after our subs had been put in the game that Kansas made their AA^inning. scores. 
Coach Louis J. Salmon had a hard task before him and the complications which arose as the season advanced did not tend to lighten liis burden. To his credit it must be said that he kept at A\'ork AA'ith the same spirit of perscA'crance that marked his x^laA'ing during" his four A-ears on I'Jotre Dame's teams and made his name famous in the annals of football from one coast to the other. The fact that the Varsity's team work and offensiA'C plaA- was developed to the speed and accuracy that AA'as shoAA'ii in the last few games speaks more for Salmon's abilitA" than the record of an ordinaiy team AA'ith good luck on its side AA-ould liaA'e done. It is the hope of the entire student body that Salmon AAHU return to Notre Dame next year, take charge of the team and bring Notre Dame back to the jDlace she occupied AA'hen he was the pride of Notre Dame and the West. 
FRAX'CIS J. Sl-TAUGHXESSA' (Right End). Ca^Dtain Shaughnessy A\^as unable to give his team the full benefit of his abilitA', as his broken collar-bone forced him to remain on the side lines during the greater part of the season. But AA'hen in the game his long, sensational end runs and his hard and sure tackling stamped him as one of the best men that has defended Notre Dame's ends. His pluclvA' AA'ork at Purdue, AA^hen, despite the doctor's orders and after being out of train­ing for 'oA-er tAA'O AA-eeks, he tore through the line for long gains and j)laA'ed an all-around star game, AA'OII him a AA^ell-merited place on the "All-Star" Indiana eleA-en. Captain ShaughnesSA' leax-es school in June, and if his successor at right end has the same amount of true Notre Dame spirit that our pluclvA' Captain has, then our 023ponents Axdll have to look to their laurels. "Shag," is 22 A-ears old, AA^eighs 175 pounds and is 6 feet aiid 3 inches in height. > 
PATRICK A. BEACGAI (Left Guard). 

"Pat Beacom, bigger and better than CA^er," is the stoiy of AAdiat our opxDonents ran up against AAdien thcA- attempted to gain through our left guard. "Pat " AA^as the mainstay of the line last season and more than duplicated his fine AA'-ork this A^ear., Besides j)laying his usual strong game on .the defense he suriDrised CA-eiwone bA^ his AA^ork AAath the ball. He AA^as first used at Columbus AAdien our backs AA-^ere tired out and unable to gain. Running low and hard he tore into the line and placed A'-ard after 
NOTRE DAMB SCHOLASTIC Zl'y 
yard to our credit until finally he had scored. Then to show that his feat had been no accident he did it all over again and made our victory complete. Beacom handles his 230 pounds easih' and is much faster on his feet than the ordinar3' lineman. He has been selected to lead the Yarsitj'- next season and should prove a caj)able captain. The rooters are already- laj'ing plans for the celebrations that will occur when the men under Captain "Pat " bring the coveted title of State Champions back to Notre Dame. Beacom is 22 3-ears old, ^\'eighs 230 pounds and is 6 feet 2 inches in height. 
N.\TE H. SiLVMR (Quarter-Back). During Captain Shaughnessj^'s absence from the game the responsilDilitA'- of running the team was given to Nate Silver,'and our speedx- little quarter-back kept up his record for fast and consistent work made the 3^ear before. Silver uses good judgment in direct­ing his plan's and has the faculty of keeping his backs working together at all times. His defensive work at Lafa3^ette and at Milwaukee .won a lot of praise for him. Nate has been chosen alternate captain for next season and wall return and plaA'- next j'ear. He was lighter than usual this fall, weighing but 150 j)Ounds, is 21 j^ears old and stands 5 feet 7 inches in height. 
CLARENCE J. SHEEHAN (Centre). 
"Bud" Sheehan kept UID his clever ^\''ork at centre -and proved himself the most consis­tent man Notre Dame has had at that posi­tion. He T\^as handicapped \>y injuries, but he ahvavs managed to secure an even break with his ojDponent. He is a fast man and a willing worker, and to his accurate passing is due the fact that Notre Dame had but few^ fumbles durins^ the vear. He w^ill return next season, and Avill give some of the aspiring candidates for centre honors in the West a merrv race. Sheehan is 21 vears old, w^eighs 190 pounds and is 6 feet in height. 
LAWRENCE MCNERNY (Left-End). 
McNemy w^as one whom the hoodoo picked out as its ow^n personal propertj^ Just before the trip to Milwaukee he w^as badly hurt in practice, but entered the Wisconsin game as,there w^as no competent man to replace him. In that game he w^as so battered and bruised that he w^as compelled to remain on the side lines until the De Pauw^ 

SCHOLASTIC. 
and Purdue contests. In these two games he showed his abilit\^ bv scoring a 75-vard run against De Pauw and putting up an excellent game at Lafavette. McNernv has had but two years of college football, j^et he is a valuable man for anj^ team. He is a brilliant offensive jDlaA'^er and a man v^'^ho can take advantage of auA-- "slij^ of his, opponents. He is a member of the 1906 La\A^ class and Avill return. "Mac" Aveighs 160 pounds, is 5 feet 11 inches in height and is 20 j^ears old. . 
MICHAEL L. FANSLER (End and Full-Back). 
"Big Mike" is the most versatile man on the Notre Dame. -team. During his three 3^ears of football he has been called upon to pla3^ nearty ever3'- position on the eleven; and in everv case he has given satisfaction. Earty in the season the injuries to "Shag" and McNern3'^ forced Salmon to look for an end. Mike was tried and made good. Later he was shifted to full-back when Draper was laid up, and at Purdue Fansler tore into the Boilermaker's line as though he Avere a sepiond Salmon.-Despite his good work this ykscc at eiid, and full-back, Mike is realty a lineman. If he retunis to Notre Dame for his . last 3^ear, which is to be hoped, he will be a great heljD to the team in the line. Mike is 23 vears old, weighs 170 pounds and is 6 feet 3 inches in height. 
ARTHUR FUNK (Right Tackle). 

Funk was late in re^jorting for practice, and had no real chance until he was tried at tackle at Columbus.. He at once jDroved that he v^-as the "find" of the 3^ear. From that time on he was kept on the regulars, and as he became accustomed to his place he shoAved the stuff that was iii him. He is short and rather light for a lineman, but is a hard fighter. His work wdth the ball gained inan3'' 3'^ards for Notre Dame, and next 3''ear when he has learned more of the fine points of the game he will jDrove a worthv successor of that other 'Art'— Steiner. Funk weighs 165 pounds, is 5 feet 8V^ inches in height and is 20 5'^ears old. 
DAVID J. GUTHRIE (Half-Back). 

Guthrie was another 'find,' but like other members of the team, he W^as severety hurt earty in the 3''ear and was unable to pla3'' Ms best game at all times. Dave is a hard man to down when he has the ball; he hits 
the line low and seems to be able to keep his feet until he has made his gain. His defensive pla^nng was consistently' good all A^ear, and before he was injured it was brilliant. Dave has three A'-ears ahead of him and should proA''e one of the strongest men in the back-field. He is 21 A'-ears old, .AA'^eighs 190 pounds and is 6 feet in height. RICHARD W . DONOA'AN (Right Guard). 
Coach Salmon decided that DonoA^an AA'ith his 195 jjounds of braAAni and bone AA^ould do better in the line than at half-back Axdiere busA'' doctoring his bruises and sprains until the De PauA\^game Avhen he, was laid up for good with a fractured collar-bone. "Bill" is one of the best punters Notre Dame has CA-er had, scA-eral of his kicks going OA'-er seventA'" A'-ards. His offensiA-e Avork Avas not consistent, although A\^hen in a pinch he could tear through for gains, as he showed against De PauAA^ This and his defensiA'e Avork Avill haA-e improA-ed greatly next v^ear AAdien he can be expected to do great things. This is his first A'car on the football team. 
THE LINE-UP. 
he AA^on his monogram last year. Although ncAv to the place "Dick" soon got onto the run of things and put up a creditable shoAv­ing all 3^ear. His AA'-ork is not of the brilliant or sensational order, but he plaA'-ed hard, and kept improAang all the time. DonoA^an has tA\^o more years to plaA^ He is 21 years old and 5 feet 11 inches in height. 
WiLLLOi A. DRtVPER (Full-Back). 

"Bill" Draper fitted in nicely at Salmon's old place, and his early Avork gaA^e great promise. But the hard luck "bugaboo" got busy with him also, and Draper Avas kept 
He is 21 years old, is 6 feet 1 inch in height and Aveighs 172 pounds. DuRAMT CHURCH (Half-Back). 
Church is another new man to the squad; he is playing his first year at half-back. Church-is a fast man, understands football thoroughlA", and in his earh' games won the rooters bj-- his headj- Avork A\dth the ball and his plucky defensiA'-e playing. Later  in the season his defensiA'-e game suffered,  and he failed to maintain the stan(Jard set  for himself earlier in the year. His injury at  Milwaukee, which put him out of condition, 
may in sorne manner account for this; and if he returns to Notre Dame next fall he should put up a creditable game. Church w^eighs 160 pounds and is 23 years old. 

THO^L\S F . HEALY (Left-Tackle). Tom played in hard luck all y^ear. He did not report for practice until late in the season, and w^hen rounding into condition he sprained his ankle and had to start all over. When in condition Heaty puts up an excellent exliibition of football. His best game of the vear T\'^as at Lafavette w^here he w^ent after Allen, Purdue's caj)tain, and more than held his owm until he w^as forced to give way^ to Murphj-^. If Tom comes back to Notre Dame next j'^ear in condition he will surprise some of the supporters of the team. Healy w^eighs 200 pounds, is. 21 years old and is 6 feet in height. 
ROBERT BRACKEX (Half-Back). 

"Peggy" Bracken w^as the lightest man in the back-field, but won his monogram hj his dash and earnest w^ork. - During' the 3^ear he plaA'^ed half-back and end, and his showing gives great promise for the future.. He is not as experienced as some others in the back-field, but if he returns next fall the candidates for end or half-back ^\dll have a hard time beating him out. Bracken is 20 years old, weighs 160 pounds, and is 5 feet 9 inches in height. 
RuFDs AV. WALDORF (Half-Back). 

Waldorf is another nian who lacks the experience that every^ Varsity" player should have. But his w^ork during the season \\^as hard and show^ed steady improvement every time he was put iii the game. His w^eight, too, w^as against him, but if he can put on a few pounds during the vacation he ought to be able to put up a creditable game next season: Rufiis is 20 years old, weighs 155 
pounds  and  w^on  his  monogram  for  the  
first  time this  year.  
DANIEL  L. MURPHY  (Tackle).  
Murphy  w^as  one of the  new^ men  of  the  

squad, and w^hen given a chance did all that could have been asked of him. He has had practically no experience before the present year, and consequently was at a great disad­vantage w^hen playing against older and more seasonable men. Still, he is a game and hard player, and always gave the best he had in stock. Another year w^ould go a long w^ay towards developing "Murph," but as he graduates in June he may not return. He weighs 172 pounds, is 5 feet 10^^ inches in height and is 20 years old. 
RICHARD COAD (Sub Ouarter-BACK). "Dick" Coad took Silver's place as the baby of. the team, and, like Nate, w^on all fi*oin the start by his brilliant w^ork. His defensive playing, is as clean-cut and as sure 
as that of any player Notire Dame has had 
in years and was a feature of every game 
he took part in. His generalship and ofien­
sive plajnng lacks Silver's dash and sureness, 
but Coad gave entire satisfaction while on 
the squad. Parental objections forced him 
to leave the squad before the Purdue game. 
Dick is 19 years of age, weighs 140 pounds 
and is,5 feet S inches. 
Besides the above-named gentlemen, all-of w^hom won their monograms, the squad consisted of Keefe, O'Neill, Langtry, Sud­heimer and Murra3'-. Keefe, O'Neill and Sudheimer were in the Varsity line-up at some time or other, but did not play the length of time required for a monogram. This lack of men for a second team w^as one of the greatest obstacles Coach Salmon had to contend with, and it is to be hoped that a school that has forty-five candidates report for a haU eleven vsrhile fourteen or fifteen men, some badly crip'pled, are serv­ing as first and second teams for the Varsitj!^, will see that next j'^ear's squad will be large enough to w^arrant the for­mation of at least two ftdl teams. The few^ men w^ho did stand the bruises and knocks on Cartier Field deserve the credit for showing a great deal more loyalty than nian3*^- of the fellows w^ho moan so about the lack of true college spirit at Notre Dame. 
Trainer Holland had his troubles from the first day of practice, w^hen Sheehan hurt his foot, until he gave his men their last attentions at Lafayette. Tom w^as wdthout a sufficient nuniber of competent assistants all y^ear, but he did as w^ell as could be expected under the existing circum­stances. Besides looking after the physical welfare of the men, he relieved Manager Daly during the latter's absence from Notre Daihe in October. No one can criticise Holland for the lack of condition of the men. His work in the past shows that if conditions are the least w^ay favorable to him, his boys will go into the games fit as the proverbial fiddle. 
Manager Byrne M. Daly had more than the usual number of complications, both great and small, to overcome, and it w^as but to be expected, after his record of the past three years, that he w^oiild come through with flying colors. By his tact and personalitj'^ he has placed Notre Dame on friendly terms with all the colleges of the West, and what Mr. Daly has done for athletics at Notre Dame would make his place especially hard to fill. 
In conclusion, the - SCHOLASTIC desires to congratulate Coach Salmon and every member of the squad for their loyalty to Notre Dame in the face of overwhelming odds, and to wish them all a Merry Christmas and a happy New Year! 
— , ROBERT R. CLARKE. 




Notre Dame Scholastic Football Pages 
Volume 39 Issue 13 22 December 1905 
228 NOTRE DAME 
The Cincinnati Ladies' Concert. 

The Cincinnati Ladies' Cremona Orchestra plaj^ed here Dec. 2. There was ranch to enjo3^ in the way of good music in their numbers; the ladies played well together, with good technique and considerable expres­sion, but the character of the performance on the whole was not up to exiDCctations. The\^ were led hy Airs. Baldwin Broekhoven whose solos were appreciated as Were those of the violoncellist. 
Mrs. Beecher's Recital. 

To-da^'- when elocution so often' means aflfectation and insinceritj^, lovers of true art can not but admire the work of Elizabeth Garghill Beecher, whose excellent recital on Saturda3% December the 9th, delighted her audience in Washington Hall. The richness of voice, the charm and sincerity'- of manner, above all that naturalness which is hers, stamp Mrs. Beecher as an interpretive reader of the highest rank. The selections given were four in number, "A Man Without a Country," a reading from "Quo Yadis" and the humorous pieces "That Boat Race" and "How^ a Woman Buys a Christmas Gift." It is difficult to, sa3'' in wliich Mrs. Beecher . excelled. She rendered both the humorous and the pathetic with equal skill and -in such' a w^ay as to move her audience to alternate joy and sorrow. Mrs. Beecher's first appearance at Notre Dame v^dll long be remembered, and it is hoped by all that she will visit us again.. 
Lelarid Power's; Recital. 

OVL. Thursday afternoon, December . 14, the students had the pleasure; of being present at a splendid-recital given by MrrLeland Powers: in Washington Hall.: In his-skilfiil impersonations of ithe many characters from the romantic comedy, "David Garrick," Mr. Pb:vv:erslscored a great success;rHis Richard Chivy'jand,Simon Ingot ;were^ ihterpretations. .Mr.;^^ welcomed[at Notre: Dame again>:'^^^^ .: 

SCHOEASTIC. 
Is. 
ersona 

—John M. Gearin (B.S. ^71, M. S. '74.) has been ajDpointed United States Senator from Oregon to fill the vacancj^ created by the death of Senator Mitchell. For j^ears Mr. Gearin has enjoyed a national reputation as a la\v3'-er and an orator, and the Senate will afford him ample opportunities to displaj'' his versatile gifts. The University congratulates Senator Gearin and rejoices in the Veil-deserved honors that have come to him. 
—It was a source of gratification to the members of the Universitj'-to note that among the group of laymen who me t • conjointlj'­with distin.qj-uished clerg^'•men in Chicago recenth"^ to organize the Church ,Extension' Societv were three graduates of Notre Dame. These were the Hon. W. P. Breen, of Fort Wayne, whom the University looks upon as her ideal alumnus; Mr. Warren Cartier, donor of Cartier Field, another alumnus of wdiom Notre Dame is especiall3'^ proud, and Mr. J. J. Fleming of Iowa who is eminenth'­w;ortli3'' of a place in this honorable company. Mr. Breen was. elected treasurer of the Society'-. ­
—Members of the Universitj"- were dehglited to.note the presence of Mr. J. S. Hummer among the judges of the Oratorical Contest. Mr. Hummer won the. Breen Medal in his j'-ear, and his success, since his graduation is,a source of pride to Alma. Mater. He is now Master in Chancer^'-, and the prophets say he will soon- ornament the bench. 
Varsity of 1905. 

Another year of football has come and 
gone;, with its coming came our hopes and in^rits going went our hopes: : On. Nov. 24 Notre-. Dame turned.down another page of her: football l^history.: Far: below - expec­tations..w;ent\the-leaf, \but it -is. gone:.and another;season;is;COimrig. : ; -. . . • , In .-the: .biegirimngr^of/r this ; scholastic j'^ear ; Notre J J)ameiibpasted;^ of^rfootball -material Ithe^flike; bf-;whi^ had before. 
Good ::anen:-fand pplent;^^^^ 

J^OTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. 2^29 
to the early call of Coach McGlew, and for 
the first month of the season the "vines 
were ever fruitful and the weather ever fine," 
but—^it rained. 
First came the trouble with the three men 

from North Di\dsion High School. Dissatis-: 
faction caused hj outside parties in time 
effected such disagreements and misunder­
standings as to cause these men to leave 
school. Not that the team was materially 
weakened as a result, but the ^trouble had 
started. Men were left to fill the places 
made vacant, if it may be said that places 
were made vacant, yet it w-as not that. 
To be frank, it w^as a lack of the true spirit. 
It would be idle at this late dav to fix the 
blame, if indeed the blame could be fixed, 
so let tis repeat simplv- that it was the lack'­
of the "altogether spirit," and the result 
was inevitable. 
•It is an utter impossibilitj^ for a coach to develop and make a football team unless he has the entire support and confidence of the men tinder him. 
The team this jeax was composed of men 
who had, with one exception, the benefit 
of two or more years on the gridiron. Of 
last year's team right end and tackle were 
missing, but the rest remained nearly the 
same. The backfield consisted of men who 
had ]3layed in the same positions the year 
previous. The new material was the best 
we ever had, and it is ^\dth regret we can 
not sa3'-a winning team w-as turned out. 
A.nd yet the fact that we did not have a 

winning team can not be accepted as proof • 
that our coach Tvas incompetent, for.no man 
laboring under the same conditions coidd 
have succeeded. But it is over, the season ­
is gone, and let b\'-gones be bygones. Another 
year is coming and we still have plenty of 
time to repair our reputation in the football 
world. 
We. lose many good men in June, but 
many'good men .have been lost before and 
men have alwaj'-s been found, to take their . 
places. Of • this year's team M. -Downs, B. 
Downs, McAvoy, Sheehan, McNernj'-, Funk, 
CalHcrate, Donovan, Heah'^, Waldorf and^ 
Bracken, have .one year or .more left to 
their credit. - Silvery and Draper are the only 
ones who shave .used lip their four.years. ' 
Captain Beacom has decided not to .return, 

-as4have-several,of the other'men; .butdt is safe to say Notre Dame will have a, team : next 3'ear - and one : that; will do all in its. power to atone for the season just closed. 
And now. let be said in all fairness that no man ever worked harder; ever put. more time and energy into a thing; ever used the means available in a more beneficial manner liian. did our coach of the past season, Henry J. McGlew. The season was not what we would like to have had it nor -was it as he desired.; As a hard and earnest worker he proved '­himself to be w^ithout an ecxual at Notre Dame. Days came late in the. season whe n there were not enough' men -to make tip a second team, but McGlew would Vdon a suit and go in and play as hard as any man on the squad. Instead of seeing that the men /^ took all the bumps and bruises ,at his . direction, he took his shate, and oftentimes, more than his share. His everv. thought w^as to develop and make a team Notre ' Dame could be proud of and one that .would demand respect from everyone. But con-:: ditions were against him.. No man could, ' under the same conditions, do morethan did ,. he. As a hard and earnest w^orker, whose ­very heart was wrapped in the making: of v a team, let him be remembered. , , > 
PATRICK A. BEACOM (Guard). : .^ 

. Captain Beacom ended his football, career at Notre Dame after three vears of"brilliant w^ork. He w-as-a tower of strength on offense and defense; he was never-injtired; . neA^er took out time, played in every game since he has been here, and was always .the same old Pat in the same old "way. He has been the mainstay of. the team for. three . years, and the,hole that will be made:Tby his absence will-be the hardest one on the team to fill. To say that Captain Beacom is the: best line man Notre Dame ever had is saving much, but .with inpunity .it; may , be said that Beacom. is the best msui: in'his position that has ever been ;ttimed put here :­and is one of the, best line men in the country.. "Pat " is 23 -years old, weighs ;23b.^and is " 6 feet 2 inches in height.: , .. . V ^> .^'; ic.'.j^^ 
.K4.THAJS!iEi. .SILVER, (Quarte ' .Vi ^ This is Silver's last. year of football... For; ­fouryears * Nate' has^pla3'ed^ at-Notre .Dame , and his ^record is: one:! to be proud = of. . As :a V; defensive . quarter heis equal-Tto..,any iii.^the/\:-: West. And .:not alone does :he-sliine4i;it-l 
-' -; .-f-*^ " 


NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. 
quarter, for in the Purdue game, the last one of the 3'ear, Silver plaA'ed end and his defen­sive work merited much praise and favorable comment. His judgment in directing plays is good, and he has the faculty- of inspiring "ginger" into the men and keeps them going all the time. Silver has been the lightest man on the team during his four A-ears here, but this year was ii little heavier than any 3'ear previous, weighing 156 pounds. He is 22 3'ears old and stands 5 feet 7 inches in height. 
Ci^-VREXCE J. SiiEEH.vx (Ccnti-e). 

Shcehan ]3la3'ed the same stead3' game that has marked him as one of the most con­sistent men at Notre Dame. PIa3'ing along­side Captain Beacom the3' were like a stone wall and verv few irains wei'c ever made through the left side of centi'e. "Bud" is a fast man and a hard worker. His pass­ing is accurate, he is seldom injured, has pla3'ed in everv gjime and ranks among the best centres in the West. Sheehan has one more 3-ear of football, l)ut has decided not to return as he intends to go into business. Had he so desired, he would have been a likeh* candidate for captain. Sheehan is 22 3'ears old, weighs 190 pounds and is 5 feet 11 inches in height. 
WILLIAM A. DR.VPER (Half-Back). 

Draper w-as shifted from full-back to half this 3'ear, and in the earh" games was pla3'ed at end. The change from full to half-back proved to be a wise move. DrajDer's end runs were most noticeable throughout the season. As a defensive half-back Draper shone best. In the Indiana game he pla3'ed a wonderful game on defensive and displa3'ed endurance equalled 01113' 133^ that of Captain Beacom. As a punter he had no equal in the state and no superior in the West. This is Draper's last 3^ear; he has onh^ pla3'-ed two 3'^ears of football but his time has expired due to track w^ork. "Bill" is 21 3'ears old is 6 feet 2 inches in height and weighs 172 pounds. 
"BARLOW" MCAYGY (End). McAvoy w^as w'ithout doubt the most brilliant player on the team. His w^ork throughout the entire season was sensa­tional. His hurdling feats have never been equalled at Notre Dame. In' nearty every 
game he tore off a long run either on the kick-off or in actual pla3\ The last two games found him at half-back, and there, as at end, his pla3ang was brilharit. On defense he w^as as daring as on offense. His long drives and "shoe-strings" aroused admiration from the bleachers at home and abroad. In the AYisconsin o-ame McAvov's daring tackles saved maiw touchdowns. On offense and defense he was the same, alwa3'S in the game And alwa3's the same brilliant pla3'er. McAvo3^ is 5 feet 11 inches in height. He is 22 3'ears old and weighs 164 pounds. 
ARTHUR FUNK (Tackle). 

This is Funk's second 3'ear and he con-tinned his good work of last 3'ear. Funk was b3' far the lightest man in the line but Avhat he lost in weight he made up for in nerve and endurance. On defense especialh' Funk's work was most noticeable. For a man of his weight his defensive work was marvellous. It is safe to sa3' that during the entire season not more than twent3' 3^ards were made through or around Funk. In the Wisconsin game he was a Avonder, as thev gained not a foot through him. Funk wnll be graduated in June and does not expect to return. He Aveighs 165 pounds, is 5 feet 9 inches in height and is 21 A'cars old. 
WiLLLOi E. DOWNS (Full-Back). This was Bill's first 3^ear on the team. His work while not of a brilliant order Avas the kind that AAdns games; a stead3' man behind the line, a man holding the half-backs with him, and alwa3'S using good lieadAA'ork. ^ His defensive pla3dng, as a line bucker AA^as good, he was in CA'Ciy pla3'-, seldom hurt and alwa3^s in the game for all there AA'as in him. "Bill" could hit a line "some" in which capacit3' he reminded one of the famous Salmon. It is hoped "Bill" AA'HI return next 3'^ear as he has a great future before him and the "makings" of one of the best full­b'acks in the countiy. He is 5 feet 11 inches in height, Aveighs 195 j)ounds and is 22 3'-ears old. 
DOMINIC CALLICRATE (End). Callicratc AA'-as the "find" of the season. Last 3'^ear he pla3'ed a few games Avith St. Joseph's Hall, and then w-as compelled to leaA'-e school on account of sickness. He 


232 NOTRE DAME 
returned this jesiv and made the Varsity wath ease. As a defensive end Callicrate was a wonder. His tackling was brilliant; his nerve and endurance were admirable; in everj"^ game seldom injured, and alway^s readj'" for more. He has three years more of foot­ball, and if he improves as he has in the past he will be without an equal in the West. Callicrate is 21 A'cars old, weighs 160 pounds and is 5 feet 10^/4 in height. 
RICHARD W . DONOVAN (Guard). 

"The Man \vho was Never Hurt" kept ujD his reputation. This was his third year in the line. " Smush " is not a brilliant plaj^er but jDlays a good'steady game, and this j^ear showed marked improvement on offensive work in carrjang the ball. Donovan has another year to plaj'-. He is 22 3'-ears old, weighs 190 pounds and is 6 feet in height. 
JMAURICE M . DOWNS (Tackle). 

Maurice is a brother of the famous "Bill." He pla3'ed right taclde this year and xDroved to be a good^steadj'- man. This was his first year and gives great promise for the future. He is absolutely fearless, and if the word ."gameness" applies to anyone on the team it surety does to him. Maurice is 5 feet 10 inches -in height, is 23 A^ears old and w^eighs 190 pounds. 
RuFus WALDORF (Full-Back). 

This is "Bumper's" second year; and on account of his class work he did not intend to come out this year, but was finally persuaded in the latter part of the season. Weighing onlv one hundred and sixtv he. tore holes in the opposing lines hke a rnan twice his size and weight. Waldorf will return next year and "things" can be expected of. him. He, is hght, but fast and heady, a good defensive half-back and no mean punter. "Rufe " is 20 years old, w^eighs 160, pounds and,is 6 feet in height.. 
^LAW^RENCE MCNERNY (Quarter-Back). 

" A'lac" wa s injuired in the first game of the season. For the past two years he has played left end and started there this; year. In the game-w^ith'North'Division his knee was injured and he decided .to give up the game, as the same knee was.badly injured' last year. I>ater 'in the season Coach McGlew got him, out again, and in the last three games he played at; quarter. As a,, general "Mac " ranks high. His, defensive: playing is good. End he has always,played, 
.a t Notre Dame, but quarter seems to be his > proper position. "Mac'>'has}one .more year ; and may return. He is 6 :feet/2i.inclies in:; . height, w^eighs 172 .pounds f and is .23 
/years.old. ,. ^ 1 . ; : v •/. ; . ; ^ 


SCHOLASTIC, 
FRANK T. HEAEY. 
"Pertoot" was a regular last year, but this vear he could not get in anv kind of condition until A'eiy late in the j-ear and by that time the other men all had the jump on him. Heaty has two j-'ears more to his credit but is not Hkelv to return. He-is a big man and has a great amount of speed for his size. He is a hard and earnest vForker, and had he been in condition earlier he would have made them all go some in the line position. Healy is 5 feet 11 inches in height, weighs 210 pounds and is 22 years old. 
FRANK MUNSON. 
Munson proved that he has the right kind of stuff in him to hiake a good football player. He is an earnest worker and a good, hard trainer. This is his first ytar, but the experience he gained will make him a most valuable man for another 3rear. Tackle is his position, and great things may be expected of him in the future. Alunson is 5 feet 10 inches in- height, weighs 185 XDOunds and is 19 years old. 
THOIMAS .JOYCE. 
JoA'ce w^as late in coming out and was necessarily slow in rounding into form. He is a guard and puts up a good, steadj'-• game as w^as shown by his playing in the few games he was in. Like Munson, great-things can be expected of Joyce, and if he returns next year, v?hich is to be hoped, he will without a. doubt be one of our best linemen. Joyce is 6 feet in height, weighs 175 pounds and is 22 years old. 
* 
* * 
A captain was. not elected and the election will not take place until after the holidaj'-s. 
- Lack of men for . a second team in the latter part of. the season was a thing that Coach McGlew had to contend .wdth and which .forced an undue amount of work on the part of the regulars. Such men as Healy, Munson .and Joyce, wdio remained out the entire season, are -the. men wh o deserve as much credit as the regulars. The, so-called ""scrubs" are the .men on every team that make the team; they are the men w-ho must be.lobked to for.the coming year and the men who never receive the credit due. them. vHairrj'.Hague kept the men in good condi­tion, all year, and the few. injuries Avhich did befall -the men were all attended to promptly,: and = the . shape in which they finished a long hatd?season show^s that Mr. Hague luiows his-bdsiness. -,­
/.In yconclusion ;tiie;'ScHbEASTic desires to 'corigratulate:^;Goach. and '. players, for their loyalty-in-the face: of; overwhelming odds and .wish them a-U. a MERRY CHRISTMAS,- and a 
HAPPY. NEW YEAR I: R. L. BRACKEN. 



Ootre Dame Scholastic 
D\ 3ce-q)VASi ssmpeR-vicTvev/s-•Vive •9VASI' CRAS iMORiTvievs­\ 
VOL. XL NOTRE DAME, INDIAi\A, DECEMBER 1 1906. No. 12. 
The' New Game. 
ROBEKT L. IIRACKEN, 'OS. 
HE severe criticism which greeted 
the 1906 rules has -been proved 
unjustly founded by the measure 
of success that the new rules 
have shown. The new game has 

all the good essentials of the old, and in addition has given the old game new phases and wider scope in which to develop not alone the foot work but the head work of the teams. Opinions seem to vary widely as to the merits of the old and new game, but it wall be found that the strongest advocates of the old game now are the men .who plaj-ed under the old rules and had finished their athletic career before the modern game came into existence. Per­s.onallv I favor the new game and believe that it has displaced for good the old gruelling, line-bucking contest. No team can make its ten j'-ards through the line if playing against a team which has license to be called an opponent. End runs, skin-tackle pla3^s, onside kicks, quarter-back kicks and place kicks, have taken the place of the. man-killing niass. plays. 
.There can.be no more of the grinding, wearing attacks that formerty won games, where the strong; backs were aimed at the opposing weak tackle or guard until they wore him down and crushed him into sub­missioUj practicallv "killing him off" for the time being. And then it was that he was seriously injured for his strength was gone, his brain had tired with his physical powers, and he w^as -but a combination of bone and muscle which was w^orthless, his spirit or "gameness" attempting to call him a ma.n. 
The much-talked of forward pass is but an experiment; in fact the new game is but an experiment, but a successful one. The forward pass has proven to be but a mere attempt in nearly every game of the season. It has worked beautifully^ at times, and has resulted in miserable failure at other times, which proves more than ever that headwork and not alone beef and muscle makes football players. 
The forward pass can be worked success­fully, but the play must be perfected to the highest state and will depend upon the headwork of the men involved in the pla3'. Under the former rules if a signal was missed on a line plunge some one of the backs could take the ball and plough 
. into the line and probably make his two or three yards, but this can not be done now (the two times three still makes six yards and first down, but it does not 
-make ten), and especially in the long pass it must work perfectU' or not at all. And the idea in every game is undoubtedly to reach the highest state of perfection. 
The new rules have put a premium on the headj'- man, for it is the man with the 
-football head that is the valuable asset to a team now; the open field runner,the dodger, the alert and watchful man, w^ho can see and take opportunities, has driven the bat-, tering ram line-plunger to the background. 
Another evidence of the new rules is that-they give the light man an equal chance' with the big man. The new game allows him to pit his w^eight aided by his brain' 
-against the man who is a football player -simply because he can not be hurt and can stand punishment. <-' The game naturally must be more open ._and- consequently more interesting to the spectators. Good plays were pulled off in 
the old game which were equalty as hardj as the new ones, and demanded the scienctl and state of perfection that is required] now; but how many of the side-liners saw' the real science in them? Only the few.' that had mastered the fine points of the game and knew the inside workings of a football machine. 
It was but natural then and reasonablc­that to the uninformed spectator the game appeared nothing more than a mass of heads and legs tangled into one huge pile, apparently devoid of anj^ science or skill, holding brute strength above all else. The game is pla3'^ed for the interest of the people at large-the same as an}'^ other game; and why. not let them see it and enjoj'' the really good points in it? And this the new rules do; they have opened up the game so that a man wlio never witnessed a contest before can easily understand it and can see what is going on in the field. The plaj'crs themselves have found the game quite as exhilirating and the public at large has found it more entertaining than before, hence there can be but one answer to the question as to whether the new rules ha^-e improved the game. 
Regarding the injuries incurred, they are bound to last. They are in everj' game and are found no more in football than in the other so-called "gentlemanly contests." As for the injuries resulting under the old rules the game itself never w^as to blame for the numerous serious accident. The men w^ho played it can thank themselves for that, for they made the game what it •vv.'^as. 
The new rules give the "bad" rhain smaller chance to get in his "dirty" work, for the openness of the game is a bar to him. The intentional injuries will not be found to exist under the new rules, for the wide-open manner in which the plays are run off allow^ officials, spectators and players to see every move a man makes, and.the "inside player" has no chance now to operate his methods. 
The' game is cleaner under the new rules, is better for the players and better for the spectators, and makes it possible for all to enjoy it. The.-old game is gone, and the new has proven to be not a failure; but in another year when the season will open Avith the sa,me confidence as the past one closed, the new game.will be a grand success. 
SCHOLASTJC. 
Her First Game. 
THOMAS E. BURKE, '07 
Persons. 
LAWRENCE HocKi (A Notre Dame student.). ROSE HOCKI (Sister of Lawrence.) WALTER NEWMAN (Member of visiting team and very 
dear friend of Rose Hocki.) CROWD OF N. D. ROOTERS. 
SCENE I. 

Cartier Field at 2:30 P. M. {Visiting team enters.) 
ROSE. Sure enough, there's Walter and he has his football apparel on. No, I can't catch his eye—^he doesn't seem to see my handkerchief. 
LAWRENCE. Don't wave that handker-' chief any more; they are all laughing behind you. 
ROSE. Let them laugh. I think Walter will do better if he knows I'm here. 
(Enter Notre Dame team.) 
CROWD. U. N. D. Rah! Rah! . ' U. N. D. Rah! Rah! Hoo rah! hoo rah! 
U. N. D. Rah! Rah! 

ROSE. What's that horrid thing they're shouting up there? 
LAW. That's the college yell. 

ROSE. Is that the college yell ? It has no music in it whatever. When I went to the- convent we had the cutest class yells. 
. LAW. Well, cute j'^ells are all right for the convent, but not for boys. They want something that will stir up enthusiasm. 
ROSE. Who is tha:t man standing behind 

all the  others ?  
LAW.  That's  Deiner,  the  Notre Dame  
fiill-back.  
ROSE.  What a horrid  face  he  has.  

LAW. That's not his face, that's a nose guard. , . ROSE. A nose guard! Is it dangerous? Will he have to be operated on for it? 
LAW. NO! no! A hose guard is not a cancer of the nose" or anything like that, it's a covering to prevent the nose from being, broken in a scrimmage. . -. ' 
ROSE And is his face under that? 
LAW. Yes, yes. ; ­

ROSE. Why doesn't he take it "off -t5 let the people know that it .isn't his face. I'd 
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
like to see what kind of a face he has, for 
he's as bald as he can be, and his head is 
like an o^gg. 
LAW. Nonsense! That's a headsrear he 

has on to cover his head and keep it from 
ROSE. And is his head under that? 

LA\Y. Yes, don't ask so many questions; just watch and AI-OU'II see them all put on head and nose guards. 
ROSE. Oh, I declare! Walter has one of 

those nose apparati on; I believe the game 
is going to start. Look how^ he caught that 
ball. I thought it was going over his head. 
CROWD.—iST. D. Hurrah! 
D. U. Hurrah! The Gold Hurrah! The Blue Hurrah! Hooper, Hooper, Hooper,, Hoo! Notre Dame. Notre Dame N. D. U. 
ACT. II. (Same scene.) 
{Notre Dame kicks off.) 

ROSE. Oh! Walter's got the ball. Look at him run! look at him run, oh! oh! Who is that horrid man that caught him bv the legs? 
LAW. That's Beacom. 

ROSE. He ought to be arrested—such a big fellow to catch him up like that and fall on him. ­
LAW. Y'OU make me tired. Everj^one is laughing at 3''0u, Don't 3'-ou know thafs part of the game. 
ROSE. Oh! yes, y.es, Walter's-got-the ball asrain! Look! look! That's not fair for that big man to knock him down before he got started. He's a brute! Who is he? 
LAW. Bud Sheehan, the star centre. 
ROSE. What's Walter going to.do now? See! he's-going back. 
LAW. Punt, punt, can't you see! 
ROSE. Oh, dear! that bigs overgrown fellow stood right in front of the ball ' when he was kicking—he has no right to do that. Who is he? 
LAW. Beacom, Beacom, keep-your e^'cs open. {Notre Dame gets ball.). CROAA'D.; • Touchdown! Notre Dame; touch­down! --. y -•. . \ 'il 
ROSE. Who is that going—Oh! no—They haven't got him. That horrid Beecham is holding Walter or I bet he'd get ::him. Oh! oh!.he's.gone back of the goal., 
GROWD. Rah! rah! rah! Braicken, Bracken! 
ROSE. Who is that they are cheering? Is it Beecham ? -•• ... LAW. NO, it's not Beecham or Lydia Pinkham either,, it's Bracken. ROSE. And T\^hat is that man going to do now ? . -. LAW. Kick goal. Why don't yon wait 
till v^ou see before v-ou ask- questions. ROSE. What's that man's name? LAW. Beacom, Beacom, Beacom—^for the 
twenty-third time. 
ROSE.. That doesn't look like the Beecham 3^ou showed me before. I • .. ­LAW. Please keep quiet, will you? His name isn't Beecham, it's Beacom; , CROWD. {AS ball goes OTergoal) Hurrah I LAW. 6 to 0 in favor of Notre Dame. ROSE. Mjl That's awful,- but I think Walter's team is the best, don't you? Who 
is that man with the nose protector?-­LAAV. I told you once it w^as Deiner: ' ROSE. All the others ha\'e taken them-
off, why doesn't he? ; .'', LAW. He doesn't -want to have his 
nose broken. • . ROSE. And do the others?; " • LAW. . You silh'- thing, keep quiet. • 
ACT ILL (Same scene.) 
Notre Dame kicks off. • 

ROSE. Oh, I declare! Y'es, Walter has it aga.in! Look! oh! oh! that horrid Beech-ams has squashed him. 
LAAA^ Yes, I guess he's out.. -. 
ROSE. Out where?. Why do they push.^ his legs up and down like a pump handle? . Oh! look! he's bleeding. 
LAAA'. They are going to take him out 
of the game. ROSE. (cT^ano-). Will he live? W'ill he die?­LAAA'. I can't stand this any longer; come 
out with.me; you've made a fool of both of us. 
In Late Summer. 

(Horace, .Odes I. :!S,). , .. . OH! boA", 1 hate, tlie Persian festal ..way, .^ . The crowns of flowers.joined with linden bands; No longer seek the hardj' rose, I say," 
- Nor pluck it with'sh3''too officious hands, 
•-•'.. • , -• ••'--'",^ i'.^~~ • - ^. 

A simple myrtle crown is all I crave When sitting drinking 'heath 'the vine's cool shade; . The myrtle, dbes not "shame" your'master, slave,­Nor will it thee when coming to my-aid. H. L. 
COACH THOMAS BARRY. 
Coming into the West a stranger and into a body of green material. Coach Thomas Barry faced a serious problem. But abilit\'^ to adapt oneself is the sign of success. Barrj"- started at once to work and in a few weeks a crowd of awkward, head­less new men were developed into a fast, steadv^ team. Aluch has been said concern­ing "Barry of Notre Dame," but only one \vho daih^ watched the Varsity grow and develop under him can do any justice to the good work done by this man. He believed in leading his men, never in push­ing them, and while he led he also showed a reserve j)Ower capable to enforce. That he' never had to call on this reserve power during the j^eai: is the best sign of his abilit3^ Always fair and giving every man a chance he more .than satisfied ever3rone. 
Barry^ will not be with us another jear; he has gone West to practise law, being graduated from Harvard June '06. Previous to his course he took a college course at Brown on whose football team he played for four years. In 1902 he was chosen all-American half-back. His stay here has left us an irnpressibn of his sterling character, and we wish him the greatest. success in his new field.' 
SCHOLA:Sl IV. 
Beacom. 
VOU may sing the songs of heroes Who have trod the football field, Of your Eckersoll and Garrells Who were never known to 3-ieId; But my song is of a tackle Who would plaA' A'our heroes flat, And there's nothing cute about him. He is just plain "Pat." 
Though the backfield hit the line hard And advance unto the" goal. It is generalty the worker On the line that makes the hole. Thus was Beacom ever doing. And the holes were large at that, For there's nothing small about him. Though he's just plain Pat. 
T. C. B. 
^•» 
CAPTAIN R L . BRACKEN. 
This was "Captain Bob's" last 3^ear of football. He closed a brilliant record in the Beloit game, and now will take his place in athletic history at Notre Dame. Few men who have ever captained the Varsity have won the love and esteem that Bracken has. With his team-mates he never had anything but harmony; for him they always had respect. This mutual confidence was one of the things which made us as successful as we were. "Bob" graduates from the Law Department next year. 
:\OTRli DAME 
The Scrubs. 
TH E crowd cheers loud for the regulars Who have made the Varsity team, For the men who have swept the football field And stood in the limelight's gleam, But little it knows of the silent men, Of the lads who take tl:e rubs, Who work their best to advance the team— Hurrah! for the Varsity scrubs! 
The regular man feels well repaid When he hears the voices true Of a thousand lustA' college lads Who cheer for the Gold and Blue ; But the3' show a love that is deep at heart. The men who fight like cubs, When there's no return. And it's ours to shout "Hurrah! for the Varsity scrubs." 
T. E. B. 
TH E BASEBALL CAPTAIN.. 

Rtifus Waldorf for two years on the Varsity football and baseball teams will lead the State Champions again this year. "Rufe" has been the box artist for us since his debut into the baseball world and we are expecting bigger things than ever this year. He is the right man for Captain, and let us now guarantee him the good spirit in baseball that was accorded Capt. Bracken in football. 
SCHOLASTIC. i8i 
MANAGER DRAPER. 

When "big Bill" Draper, famous trackman and half-back, took up the managership last September everyone knew that he had gotten into a position where it took a w^hole man to get along. With a blank schedule, a muddled state of athletic busi­ness, and general disorder, staring him in the face, he set about to straighten matters out and put us where we belonged in athletic circles. As much credit is due to Manager Draper for the successful year we have had as there is to a.nj man. It is encouraging to see that after several years of unsuccessful managers we have at last gotten the right man. That he will prove as valuable a man for the baseball men as he has been for the gridiron men we have no doubt. 
Inter^Hall Track Meet-

Manager Draper says that an Inter-Hall meet will be held soon. It's for the. purpose of bringing out men for the Varsity track team. Already man3^ are out, but there are others around who should be /there. Sorin, Corby, Brownson and St. Joe should all be represented. .The last Inter-Hall meet held w^as a very successful one. Sorin won, and the big men are trying to get out enough men to do it this year. 
Varsity J9C6. 
Another, season has gone and found us up a peg or two. No team could ever show more clearlv the effect of ".altogether" spirit tliaii the Varsit^'- of 1906. AVith less stellar material than the 1905 team, the Yarsit3' n ride a wonderful rCcord nnd buried the "hard-luck" accountf of the 1905 \varriors. It was not due to one man, or to the three, but to all"the.men. No team ever pulled together .like ours did, and no team ever had- better spirit among its men. To all this and Barrv's good v^^ork can we attribute out' success. 
ROBERT L . BRACKEN (Capt.aiid'O.^B..).. 
Captain Bracken ended his career in football at Notre Dame in a l-laze.of glor3'. On ever}"^ field he w^as a hero, and his long runs have added, much to the A^ar­sit\''s number of j^ards gained .this 3'ear. Bracken came in just when and w^^here a man was badly needed, and that Ayas at quarter-back. When Dwan \vas forced to quit Barry w^as up against it, He' tried Bracken at quarter, and the Captaiii immediately made good. Bob is essentiallj'­a half-back and w^ould have icertainly starred wonderfull3'- in the new game. He is fast and has a goou head. His abilitj^ as a broken field runner is attested'by his brilliant showing at Purdue. At Indiana he was picked bv all critics;.as a :back on the All-Indiana team. We AVIII miss him next j-^ear as he was a good, hard wpilcer, and gave the Varsitx*^ the best that w.as in him. "Peggy" is 21 3'^ears old, weighs'155 lbs. and is 6 feet in height. -' t 
.PATRICK BEACOM (Tackle).' 
;-^; -• 
The great ex-Captain surprised* us one da3'^ last September. He just dropped in quite unheralded and boosted, th^ line stock considerably. Through the _3'ear: he was the same old Pat, only better tjian ever. Barry shifted him to tacUe. this 3:ear, and though handicapped in a new iDosition he did brilliant work. He was a whole fortress of strengiili -to i^the line, and his .ability to net five and six yards when given the ball made him more than ever indispensal<le. For four years he has been the man on the line and the mainsta3'. Notre, Dame's line will miss Beacom and the hole will be hard to fill. To followers of football no word of praise or introduction is- necessar3^ Ever3'one knows " big Pat,'.' the giant tackle of the Gold and Blue. We are sorry to lose him; he was a great pla3'er, and a lo3-al student. Beacom is 24 A-ears old, Aveighs 230 pounds and.-^'stands 6 feet 2. 
CLARENCE ..SHEEHAX (Centre). 
"Bud" also .pla3'ed his last game this 3''ear. "Like Beacom and; Bracken his time has come, and he must leave the old shoes in the old gym for some one else -to fill It will be. hard to. fill thein". too. In fact we are quite sceptical about it, for Sheehan has no peer in the West as • centre, and is without doubt one of the greatest football pla3'crs Notre. Dame'ever turned but. He is big- and verv fast, strong and knows the game.."He was injured onh'- once during the whole season. "Jerrv"also gave, us a sur­prise, and one da3'- he strolled in from the West and donned the canvas. The brilliant work he did . eclipsed cdmpletel3^ all his other records. This vear he was the general in'the line, and kejDt "the new ones steadied up. He is 23 3'^ears old, weighs 190 pounds and is 5 feet 11 inches' in height. 
DoiMiNic. CALLICRATE (Half-Back). 
Dominic Callicrate, the find of- 1905, was .the star-.-of 1906. This-year he was pulled back to half and .pla3-ed his own great game back there. Absoluteh^ devoid of fear, almost to foolhardiness, strong, alert and sure he. is a very valuable part of the team.. He is a phenomenal ball pla3^er. He is hard to catch.-and hardei" still to tackle when c,arr3dng the ball; he is a fierce tackier and a reckless interference breaker. He is never injured and always in the game. He was also picked as an all-Indiana back. Next 3'ear ' Ke will have no peer in the West ^s a half-back. Dominic is 21 vears old, weighs 165 pounds, and is 5 feet lOVo inches in height. He was.- elected Captain for the 1907 Varsity. ' . 
JqHN;:DEiNER (Full-Back). , The big'Tiill-black was a5 tower behind the .line; his 190>. pounds ;vvere alwa3'^s telling on opponents,' and his" fierce lihie lunges made one regret the loss of the old game. 



NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. 
mmmm\ 

He is big and strong and a powerful good endurance and promises to be a valu­defensive player. On offensive he is a star able man. This was his first A'^ear. Next when running interference. His showing in season we expect him to do "some" things the Indiana game places him as oi e of on the line. He was never hurt and was the best men in the State. He is a good always in the game. As guard he did admir­man behind the line, steading the half-backs ably. In Eggeman there is the making and alwaj's using his head. No team can of a star line-man. His defensive w^ork be complete and successful without a man was strong and he was just as good on like Deiner. -His plunges are a necessity. offense. He played every game of the season, Deiner went through the line with terrific and very little time was taken out for him. force and was alwaj'^s in the playing, He is 21 years old, weighs 195 pounds and pulling a man through, clearing holes, or a , is 6 feet in height. ' telling factor on the push. Deiner is 21 
OSCAR HUT2ELI. (End). 
years old, weighs 190 pounds and is 6 feet Another man who materialized this j-^ear in height. 
was Hutzell. The man from Fort Wayne 
FRANK MUNSON (Guard). 

made quite a "rep" for himself this jtar.Munson was another man to make the-
He was fast down the field and was one team this A'car. He held down the position 
of the men who came in for much praise beside Sheehan and made good. "Fan ' is 
from everyone who saw the . Indiana a big man and strong. He was a hard game, and who were forced to recognize worker, though hindered somewhat by a • the worth of our ends. Time after time 

severe cold which clung to him through the Indiana failed in trying to circle the ends. 
whole season. He is fast arid with his All others like Indiana failed too, because weight made a good man. He was the our ends were always there.' Another one of punter of the team and showed up well. 
Hutzell's new stunts was always keeping His performance in the Michigan " Aggie "'^• '^is eye on the ball and being the one game was excellent, and his punts against generally to ge:t a fumble. His work a driving soaked wind average thirty-five scored for "us in several instances. 'He is yards. In the Indiana game he did great strong and fast, a good tackier and awork also. Munson is 5 feet 10% inches, man who always keeps his eyes open. He weighs 185 pounds and is 20 years old. 

will play with us next 3'ear. Hutzell is He wnll be with us again next year. 
5 feet 9 in height, weighs 160 pounds and is 20,years old. 

RuFus WALDORF (Half-Back). HARRY MILLER (Half-Back). 
Waldorf too must go this 3'^ear.' The great "Bumper" has played the time allotted to Miller reported to Barry with the rest all athletes. His work is memorable, and of the green men; But h^ had the right the swift half-back will long be cherished timber in him, and soon "red top" was by Notre Dame enthusiasts. ; Last season tearing around the end as half-back. He he played full-back, and though light for is a very good worker and consistent; one that position he proved a valuable man. of the most faithful men on the squad and The new game was more to "Rufe's" a hard trainer. He is almost too anxious to liking. He is heady and. a good defensive "get in" and so needs holding back instead player, while he is a good punter.- Waldorf of the customary "dig in." Miller will be a has been elected Captain of the Varsity great acquisition to next year's team. He is baseball team. He is 21 years old, 6 feet strong and possesses phenomenal develop­in height and weighs 165 pounds. ment for a man so young. He is always, 
willing to learn any new point and is FRED EGGEMAN (Guard). 
another one filled with the " ready-for-more " 

Eggeman was one of the men from the spirit. He has two years more, and if he big squad of new men to make good. He continues to improve he will have rip is a brother of the famous John Eggeman superior in the state. Miller is 17 years who starred on the Varsity as centre. old, weighs 175 pounds and is 5 feet 10 "Eggie" is a big man and strong; he has inches in height. 
NOiRE VAMt SCHOLASTIC. 
. • SAMUEL DOLAN (Tackle.) 
Dolan was another new man who made 

good .under Barr3^ It vi as his first year and he showed up ver3'- well. Next 3-ear "Rosie" ought to IDC one of the best men in the West. He is ver\- strong and pln3-s a great game both offensive and defensive.­Besides he can, like Beacom, be called on for .five or six yards when the3'- are badh'' needed. It is a hard proposition to pull this man down once he gets the ball. He was one of the most consistent, workers on the squad; always in good condition and read3^ for more he made a hit with ever3^one. This AA'as Dolan's first 3''ear and he will be with us again next year; He is 22 3'ears old, weighs 190 pounds and is 5 feet 9 inches 
in height. 
RAYMOND J. SCANLON. 
Scanlon is a little man, weighing but 

160 pounds and is but 5 ft. 8 in height. 
He started late occasioned hj his class 
work, but proved to be one of the best 
ends on the squad. Scanlon pla3'ed end 
on offense and half-back in the doul^le line 
on defense. He was the equal of Callicrate 
in picking out his man and downing him. 
A fast man going down under punts, and 
a hard worker all the time. While not a 
brilliant plajer he was the kind that can 
be relied upon and can alwa3'S be counted 
on to do his best. A harder or more faithful 
worker never wore a Notre Dame uniform 
than the same little Scanlon. He will return 
and the man who beats him out of an 
end position next 5^ear will deserve the 
place for he looks to be a fixture now on 
the right wing as long as he remains in 
school. 
EDWARD F . O'FLYNN 

O'Ftynn is another one of the long list of first 3''ear men, weighing 170 pounds and standing 5 feet 10 in height. Earh'- in the season he suffered an injur3'' to his shoulder which kept him out of the game for several weeks and spoiled the good showing he would have made. The onh-^ time that he really had a chance to show his abilit3'- was in the first game of the season, and then he proved beyond doubt that he had the proper stuff in him and will be developed into a good full-back. O'Flynn mav return next season arid if he does he will make a strong bid for a positioii in the back field. 
BENJAMIN BERA'E. 

Berve' weighs 185 -pounds, is 19 3-ears old, and was another one ofithe.new men. Coach Barrv' took him oot of tackle,"his regular position, and iriade an end out.of him. He. was a go.od defensive half-back, possessing the weight, and strength neces­sar3' for a good interference-breaker.. He followed the ball well, and although new at the position put up a remarkably good game. He is another t3-pe of the steady pla\ er, alwa3'-s in the ^ame, and alwpy^s working for the interest of the team. Berve will return next year and vrill. make part of the good bunch that will remain from, this 3'ear's squad. 
ARTHUR A. HE.NNING. -­

"Artie'" showed a great improvement over last 3''ear and developed into a good man. That Henning is needed around' is ptitting it mildl3^ That he will be extremel3r useful, and that he will utilize his 180 pounds:.ior us next 3''ear, makes us feel easier about "that hole" which Beacom will leave. Henning from the start got in and trained. He was alwa3'S out on the campus for ever3'^ practice and scrimmage.; He seldom if ever got hurt and alvva3'S put up. a good strong game. It is,of Henning's kind that we must look to next 3-ear for another first-class Varsit3-. He is 21 years, old, .weighs 180 pounds and is 5 feet 8 inches in height. 
HARRY. G. HAGUE. 

Harrv' Hague came out this 3-ear and gave the Varsitrv the 1 est in him. Pitted against Beacom, he often made- the big fellow take more than usual precautions. Hague was another of those indispensable men \vho are alwa3^s around when wanted, and who are alwa3-s willing. Harry is well muscled and uses ISO pounds of solid matter to good advantage. He will be with us again next;3'ear. He bids fair to make a very good line-man. He is 20 years old, weighs 180 pounds and stands 5 feet' and 9 inches. 
. . ALBERT T. MERTES. . "Bud" Shcehan's opponent landed on H:he campus this year w^ith" the others 
-\A^ho knew nothing of anv kind of foot­ball much less the new game. But brahis win out and it did not take Alertcs long to get a start; from then on he made things interesting enough for any man on the squad who opposed him. A'lertes is undoubtedh"- looked upon as the man to fill Sheehan's shoes. This ye^ir's experience coupled with his weight and nerve should make him a veiy valuable man next 3'^ear. It .is the kind of men like Mertes that coaches want.. He is over willing and is a plugger from start to finish. He is 20 years old, 5 feet 11 inches tall and weighs 1S5 pounds. 
THOMAS F . DONOVAN. The brother of the famous "Smush" played with us this j'-ear. He evinced some of the old Donovan spirit and was always in. the thick fight. He is a verv^ big n?an and next year should prove a valuable bit ,of material. "Smusheret," though a green man learned quickh^ and put up some good games during the year. His Beloit game was worthy of notice, and was the subject of much comment. He is 21 years old, 6 feet .1 tall and weighs 185 • pounds. NICHOLAS M . DOYLE. 

A good man -vvho did fine work dur­ing the year was "Nick" Doj'-le. Nick is a big man and verA' strong. He is a willing w^orker and uses his head. Besides being a good defensive line-man. he is a hard .tackier. This w^as his first 3'^ear out and vsre expect great things from this man next season. He was also a member of the green bunch Barry had to pick from. He will;be back next 3'^ear and help fill the place vacated by Beacom. Do3de is a hard student as well as a good athlete. He is 21 years old, weighs 190 pounds and is 6' feet in height. 
HARRY A. BURDICK. 

Burdick weighs 185 pounds and is 6 feet tall. This was liis first year on the team and he was probably the "find" of the season among the second team men. As a defensive haH-back he was the equal of any man on the Varsity. And in the onty game he .was in he proved that he was a good end. The only forward pass of the ^ season which :worked, as it is intended to work, Burdick 
SCHOLASTIC: 
took from Bracken and made a twenty-five yard gain on it. He had but little experience if any before this year, and next season he will undoubted^ be seen in the regular line-up if he continues to improve. 

EDWIN BONNAN. Bonnan was the smallest" man on the squad. He is but '^^5 feet 6 in height' and weighs 142 pounds. Bonnan is the man to Avhoiii the rooters are looking to step into Bracken's shoes at quarter. He is a fast man, a good general, knows the game and has had several 3-ear's experience. He did not get a chance to show his. worth this season as Bracken was late in getting into form at quarter-back and needed all the X3ractice he could get. Bonnan is a good man on defense, handles punts well and is a good dodger and open field runner. He will return and according to dope should fill in at quarter-back with very little trouble. 
JA:MES KEEFE. 

Keefe is 5 ^eet 10 inches in height and weighs 155 pounds. He played quarter and half-back on the second team and was a valuable man for the squad, as he could fill in at end, quarter or half In the only game he w'as in he went in at quarter and got away wnth two pretty runs. His sprinting abilit3'' aids him greatly as he is the fastest quarter-miler in the school, and once away it was all off, as he proved to the regulars in the practice games. Keefe maA' return. 
JOHN F . DUFFEY. Duffe3'^ was another star man on the second team. He is-a big strong fellow weighing ISO and standing 5 feet, 11 in height. - Di.ffe3'^ pla3'ed half-back on the second team and was responsible for many of the long gains that the "scrubs" made on the Varsity. Duffe3'' has three more 3'ears to pla3'^, arid if he decides to remain at Notre Dame he will develop into a strong man, either at end or half-back, and have chance to show his ability in a regular game. He is another of the 
men who w^ill make thea little more experience andvaluable asset next season.   Varsity will  with  be a  
, \;  .  LEROY  KEACH;  

Eeach is a small light man, weigiiing but; 150 pounds and. standing but 5. feet 
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTI/" 
m 

8: Keach was one of the most earnest workers on the squad. He filled in -QXVJ position including end and the backfield: At times Goach Barr3" sent him in at guard and it" was all the same. Never a word from him, but he put his head down and worked. .The good example that Keacli set might be followed h\ manj' of the side line warmers. Keach,was.one of the Jastes.t men on the >quad. He .has another \^ear and 
will  rieturn. MA X  .. JlTRASH EK.  
"German3^" Jurashek isweighs 160 pounds.. He  6 feet pla3'ed  tall half  and  and  

end on the second, team and proved to be. a good.. gro.und gainer and -a fair defensive man. -"German3''" did not have the chance to shpw his' best as he was injured ,several times. .He will return next.3''ear, and profiting by this 3^ear's experience will be a good man. 
The- Varsity Banquet. 

Monda3' evening the Yarsit3' was tendered a banquet b3^ the Universit3' at the Oliver Hotel. Twent3'-five men. besides the Man­ager, .Coach and Facult3'- representative gathered around the festive board and talked the season over again. At the head of the table sat. Coach Barry with Captain Bracken at his right and Manager Draper at> his left; Mr. Draper was toa^tmaster and abh' filled the position. 
In tendering the Varsity's token of love and esteem. to Barr3', Captain Bracken made a brilliant speech. The farewell.-Avord of the men who' ha.ve pla3^ed their last 3'ear with Notre Dame struck,-s\'-mpathetic chords in evervone. . , 
.The worth of the "Scrub" \vas emphasized b3^, everj'- Yarsit3'- man's speech. Keefe^s response to.the toastmaster's..introduction was greatly appreciated. 0'Fl3'nn spoke in a very creditable manner, and was onh­one of the manv who. referred, to the good Spirit among the men, the encouragement by the Coach, Captain and Manager. 
"It was 3'-ou, riot I, men,, who-made.this, year, a success," was a very modest .close coming from the lips of; Notre Dame's most successful Coach. So erided the 1906 football year—a jear long to be remembered, and, cherished by, every Notre Dame man. 
J906 Inter-Hail Football-,..:,-. 

The Inter-Hall football season closed at Notre Dame with the St. Joe-Corby game. The championship is still undecided! ;'It is disptited between' Corby arid St. Joe. Browrison met Corby, and after a brilliant fight went down in defeat- Then St. Joe tried her luck against the victors" and succeeded in defeating them, but the game was contested because St. Joe played men who were on the Varsit3' squad. A few-weeks later St. Joe tried again, but Corby held them, and the score was , 0-0.' This-leaves the affair imdecided. ,. 
-Inter-Hall football has alwavs created quite a stir here, and much interest?-vv-ais. manifested this 3'ear. It'is to be'regretted that Corb3' and St. Joe did notnieet4aricl determine the championship. For ^ Sofiri; athletics were dead; Capt.Brogan gotVa bunch of men out for a while, but the new^. Sorin spirit which is directh-.contrary--to the old one caused the thing to fall-through;-Sorin should have had a good tearn, arid the loss of the annual • Sorin-Corby-'gaine does not help college spirit very ^riiuchP*"^ ^ Perhaps to Corb3' should, the greatest credit in football progress be. given... She had a verv good schedule and took.a'rnum­ber of trips. In her line-up there, are.several fiien who should prove valuable- iriaterial for the Varsity squad. He3d, Pa3-ne arid Kellv were noticeable this vear. ; In ..St.^Joe, Banw and Papin carried the-;: honors:. Bfovvnson showed up well with. Lepriartz and Trumbull. 0'Lear3'''s toe is good, but', he had poor luck in games. . ", J- -., 
Carroll Hall went in for a bit and. defeated the Latin-American team, but further than this Carroll did nothing. Carroll seems to have followed the exariiple of the older Sorinites in taking a decided slu.mp in athletics, and this,without .Sorin's excuse, di£f•nit\^ We reriiember the time when Car-­roll cut quite a figure here, and it is,:tpo bad to see these 3'-ourigsters "without spirit. 
This in brief is Inter-Hall football this 3''ear. ..Relative to other years it was a failure, but viewed alone it ."was fair-Perhaps much can be accounted for" by the appearance of so man3'' crack Hall-jnen on, the Varsit3'- squad. , .1; ; 
i88 /v07^J^£ DAME 

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Published every Saturday during Term Time at the 
University of Notre Dame. 
ntered as second-class matter at the Post Office. Noirt Dame, Ind. 
Termst $t.50 per Annum. Postpaid. 

Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, 
Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Notre Dame, Indiana, December I, J906. 
Board of Editors. 
EDWARD F. O'FLyNN, '07. 
THOMAS E. BCKKE, '07 LOUIS M. KELLEY, '07 
WESLEY J. DONAHUE, '07 \YM. E. CUNNINGHAM, '07 
WILLIAM A. BOLGER, '0 7 FRANCIS T. MAHEK, 'OS 
ROBERT L. BRACKEN,'OS WILLIAM LENNARTZ, 'OS 
PATRICK M. JI^VLLOY,'07 YARNUM A. PAKRISH, '0 9 


LEO J. COONT2, '07 PAUL R. MARTIN, "'09. 
-^Another year of Notre Dame football 

has passed into history. The tension of 
two weeks ago has been relicTed, and Y\^e 
walk around the campus wait-

Anothcr ing for nothing, except perhajDS 
• Word. Christmas time. Much has been said about our "N. D." man. On the campus he has been landed, and off it: he. has been appreciated, but all of us adinit w^e can never say too much. The splendid spirit shown this ^-ear can not go fornanght, and-we feel it throbbing .through us, inspiring us to do greater things. Who will say it will not remain with us, and, increasing with time, swell down the y^ears till the name of Notre Dame will be heralded with renewed viffor 
the w^orld over. 
To the men who leave us .w^e extend a grateful hand. We thank them for the lesson they have taught, for the gift they bestowed in giving the best that was in them; and so, Bracken, Beacom, Sheehan, Waldorf and' Deiner, all Kotre Dame extends to you her earnest gratitude. 
To.Manager Draper belongs much of the credit for the harmony that existed this year. Handicapped by a muddled state of affairs which presented - itself to him in 
SCHOLASTIC. 

September he ploughed on and brought us through the j-^ear a success. An excellent management is the on!}'- wa3'' to term it, and Bill Draper, athlete and student, was the man behind. Of course we want another Draper A^ear. 
To Goach Thomas Bariy we are greatlA' indebted, and it is our deep regret that he will not be with us again, but wherever he goes we" will watch him with interest, 
and  now  extend  him  our  heartiest  wish  
for  success.  
-t**-^  

—Six 3^ears ago there came \o the Univer­sit3'' preparatory department a small \iOy from South Bend. On the side-lines in the great Yarsitj'- days he watched the The great Varsities. Three years later New he donned a football suit and Captain. fought for Sorin Hall in the 
great struggle against Corb3^ Corb3'' won that game. It was an epoch in Corb3''s life; it was another in two or three of the participants. That game brought out "l3ig" Joe Deiner who fought so gloriousl3'­for Notre Dame this 3'ear,but it also brought out Dominic CalHcrate. When Deiner, the irresistible force, hit something solid and immovable that day, he looked up and saw Sorin's plucky end; so came Callicrate into football histor3^ at Notre Dame. Last year he made the Varsit3^ at end; his tackling was a ieature. This 3-ear Barry pulled him back to half, but it onh"^ showed up his phenomenal abilit3'- as a . ground gainer. Every da3'^ he played behind the line he justified Barrxj^'s choice of him as a half-back. 
Monday night an admiring eleven unani­mousl3^ elected him their captain. This in brief is the history of Dominic Callicrate, the modest, unassuming, plugging captain of Notre Dame. Not only is he a football hero but he is one of the hardest and most consistent stiidents in the Universit3^ Though in this respect he is only following out tradition at Notre Dame—all our cap­tains have been lights in their classes. We who watched his football work all 5'ear think he has no peer in the West, and we all expect him;to show it next season. So here's;to "Cally," the reckless, daring half­back arid Captain of Notre. Dame in .1907. Success to hini.:' 

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. 
•LAW DEPARTMENT. 
Summary of Decided Cases. Statements of facts for trial in the Moot-Court have been published with almost uninterrupted regularitj'- since September 22,, but it was found impracticable to begin the actiial work of trj-ing cases at that early date. During the succeeding two or three weeks, however, the court officers for the current academic year were appointed and preparations made for a busy season. It is believed that compara­tivelv soon all the cases thus far sriven out can be disposed of and the regular order resumed of pubHshing the statements of facts after the trial, and giving with it the judgment or decision of the court. As that has, however, thus far been found impracticable, it has been thought advis­able to present here a summarj'- of cases already decided bA"- the court. It is unneces­sarj' to present more than a brief outline of the facts, as thej- have heretofore been set forth in the statements published. We refer first to the case of The People 
V. Barrett, the statement of which appeared in the SCHOLASTIC of September 29. The question primarily to be decided in the case is whether it should be treated as a criminal or a civil action. On the authority of Rex v. Wheatty, 2 Burr. 1125, it was held not to be of the criminal class. In that case beer was the subject of purchase, and barrels sold as containing IS gallons were found on subsequent measurement to contain scarcely 
16. According to Lord Alansfield, in stating the opinion of the court, " The^ offence that is indictable must be of a nature to affect the public. So if a man use false weights and measures, and sell b3'' them to all or manj'- of his customers, or use them in the general course of his dealing, and so if a man defraud another tinder false tokens. These are deceptions that common care and prudence can not guard against. So if there be a conspiracA^ to cheat, for ordinary- care 
' and caution is no guard against this. Such cases are much worse than mere private injuries. They are public offences. But here is a mere private imposition or deception. No false weights or measures:for, common use are employed, no token is given, no con­spiracy is shown. There is only an imposi­tion on the person with whom the defendant was dealing in delivering a less quantity than had been bargained for, and this the buyer carelessly accepted. It is simply a non-performance of contract, and for it the seller may be held answerable in a civil action." To be a crime at common law an act must be injurious to the public. An infringement of private rights may be a tort or breach of contract, and as such it gives rise to a civil action for damages. 
The next case disposed of is that of Hunth' V. the Equitable Life Insurance CompauA^. The facts in the case were published in these columns on the 6th of October. The question involved in this case is whether an insurance contract is to be considered one of indemnity or not. It was held to be such in Godsall v. Boldero, 9 East, 72. In the case just mentioned Boldero had a ckiim of £2500 against the noted British statesman William Pitt, who was notoriously indifferent about paying his debts. Boldero had an insurable interest in Pitt's life on that- account, and he^ took out a'policy to the extent of his claim in the Pelican Insurance Company of London. When Pitt died an act pro-viding for the payment of his debts. was passed bj- Parliament, and Boldero, with other-creditors, received payment in full from the public treasury. Then he called at the office of the Insurance Company and .politdy requested the £2500 due by the terms of his policy. The officers of the company refused to pay the claim, and somewhat rudeh'- intimated that he was a swindler.. The next step of the disappointed a;nd. indignant Boldero was to sue the company. The case was tried in the Court of King's Bench, and Lord Ellenborough, Chief Justice, • took the position that a contract of life insurance was simph"-a contract of indem-. 
. nitj'-, and that, as the plaintiff- had been' paid through the generosity of the govern­ment, he had received the amount he claimed f and for the recovery of-which he had. taken" out the policj- of insurance. There was, when he received paj-ment from the governinent, 
: nothing further to claim aud nothing 
190 NOTRjo, DAME 

further to insure, according to the doctrine announced, which thus treated the contract of insurance as one of indemnity. In the case of Mrs. Huntly r. The Equitable Life Insur­ance Company, however, the court took a different view of the matter, holding that a contract of insurance is not one of indemnit\', and such is now the law in Great Britain as w^ell as in this countiy. Dalbj'^ v. India, etc.. Life Ass. Co., 15. C. B. 365. Mrs. Huntly was therefore given judgment against the compaiiy for the amount of her claim. This case is based upon Connecticut, etc., Ins. Co. 
r. Schaefer, 94, U. S. 437. 
The case that was next decided is that of Hagaman v. Wavman, the facts in which were published Oct. 27. It is based upon that of Mills v. Wyman, 3 Pick. 207, which w^as decided bj'^ the SuiDreme Court of Massachusetts in 1S25. It repudiates the idea of a moral consideration as basis for a contract. In this case the defendant's son w^as of full age and had left the paternal roof with a view to securing employment and earning his own living. Some time afterward he fell sick among strangers. Destitute and in -distress, his condition was deplorable and excited their commiseration." Actuated by. feelings of kindness' arid TDenevoIence, the plaintiff succored arid relieved him. Subsequenth'^ the father wrote to; his son's benefactor, expressing thanks arid promising reimburse­ment. But he declined later to fulfill his promise, and the jDlaintiff brought suit upon it. The. court held that he could not recover, basing its decision upon the ground that there was no valid -consideration for the promise. 
The son had attained to his majority, had left home to provide for himself and w^as no longer a member of the father's family in the sense of Avorking for or depending upon it. The father was no longer under legal duty to support or provide for him. The promise to pay the plaintiff for his services and disbursements, during the young.man's sickness was given after the services had been rendered and the disbursements made. It Was given in a sense of gratitude. It had simply a moral basis. It. was right an J in accordance with conscience that it should be. fulfilled. But this, did not create a legal obligation 
SCHOLASTIC. 

binding on the defendant. It would be otherwise had the promise preceded the services and expenses incurred, and they were given with reference to it. The responsibility^ of the father for necessaries is restricted to minors and those whom he is legally bound to support. That responsi­bility^ ceases in the case of adults and children emancipated. On the authority of the case mentioned—Mills T^. W3'man, 3. Pick. 207—the case at bar is likewise decided in favor of the defendant. It should be remarked that Lord Mansfield strongty favored the Roman law, w^hich recognizes the moral consideration, and sought to borrow from it w^henever practic­able, but the common law- did not yield on. this point; and the moral consideration must find its reward in the approval of conscience, the gratitude of the beneficiary and the appreciation of the communit3^ 
The Oratorical Contest. 

Next Wednesday'- the-^finals for the Breen Medal in oratory will: be held in Washing­ton Hall. The four men w^ho will compete are those who won out in the preliminary contest held on last Tuesday. Wesley J.. Donahue, w^hb will speak first, needs no "writing" at Notre Dame. For three years he has been active in debating here. He w^as a member of the team which defeated De Pauw two years ago, and last year he was one of the trio w^hich vanquished Iowa. 
Edward F. O'Flyrin, who follows second on the program, has achieved eminence in oratory. Last year he w'on the Breen Medal firom a large-field. In the State contest he won second place by a margin of nine points' and came within one point of winning' first. Contrary to precedent around here O'Flynn has been advised by the Oratorical Association to enter. . -" .­
W. P. Galligan is a dark horse, his show­ing in the preliminaries was excellent and deserved to win into the finals. 
F. T. Collier, the stellar light in St.Joev literary circles, is known to ev.eryone., He js_ a senior economic man and has been in the limelight for four years. -. 
NOTRR DAME 
Announcement. 

The editor wishes to announce that because of the extra work of getting out a Christmas number, there w^ill be no issue of the SCHOLASTIC next week. 
Notes from the Colleges. 

And to think they are still playing base­ball out at St. Maiy's College, Oakland, California. 
* 
* «

We find a "Mike" Dougherty on the Minnesota debating team; but then this might be more of a news item if we didn't find "Mike Somebody" among the names of the spell-binders. 
* 
* * 

The Purdue Agricultural School will issue a magazine. 
* * * 

The study schedules of the -football men at Cornell will be arranged next year with a view to giving the candidates ample time for practice. This is the proper -spirit. 
* * 

January 4 is the date of the Hamilton oratorical contest which will be held in Chicago. A number of the big universities will be represented. Among them Chicago, Indiana and Northwestern. 
The "Frats" run the American college girl, while every coed is on an equal: footing in the Canadian schools. This in substance is what the Queen's University Journal has to say of the college ladies." We haven't any­thing to say except that we don't know the "frat," and we are hardly on speaking terms with "our" college girls. 
* 
• * 

The term professional is construed literally at Harvard, for not pnly the men who are professional athletes, but anyone who is following a professional course in the school is barred from participating in college athletics. 
* • * 

A college athlete can no longer compete 
SCHOLASTIC. 
in contest under the colors of his college 
and the A. A. A. He must choose between 
his Alma Mater and his club. 
* * 

Right now when the curtain is falling on the football career of many a gallant gridiron hero, perhaps- no place in the country will there be such a demonstration as there will be at Chicago over Walter Eckersall. The whole university planning is the affair. What men these moleskin heroes be! 
* * 

Basket-ball must in a week or so take the place of the " debrutalized" football. 
* * * 

The Wisconsin faculty has put a two-hour limit on all. college society gather^ ings. It can not start till S o'clock or last longer than 10:00 o'clock. The indignation is where it should be—^in the women circles. 
Personals. 

—John E. McCoy writes that he is now a member of the Thos. Hoye Heating Co. —^Maurus Urick is with the Tacoma and Portland Railroad. 
—B. R. Enriquez is located at Los Gitos, Mexico, With the Campanio International Railway Construction Co., : 
—Mr. L. C. Fritch, uncle of Louis and Emil Fritch of St. Edward's Hall, has been-appointed Assistant to.the President of the Illinois Central Railroad, effective November 14, 1900, with ofiice at Chicago, 111. Mr. Fritch was for several years secretary of the American Railway Engineering and Maintenance of the Navy Association; he is also a member of the American Society of Civil Engineers. 
—Mr. Charles Roesch and Mr. Nathan Silver are advancing rapidly with the Fort Wayne Electric Wurks, Fort Wayne, Ind., The)'- have been promoted several times. Mr. Roesch wishes to impress on the minds; of the students the necessity of knowing how to use the common slide rule. Be says: "Everyone here uses it; even in the sales: department each man has one; he has no time to make long divisions and figure 
percentages in the ordinarj- waA^" 
—Dr. M. J. Brown has been selected to teach in Columbia UniyersitA'-, Portland, Ore. He was graduated in medicine in the Jefier­son Medical College, Philadelphia, in 1896, and was instructor in biologx'' and ariatom\' for three 3'ears in the same institution. Having previoush'- studied.law in Philadel­phia he came to Notre Dame last 3^ear when he received his Bachelor's Degree in law and also the gold medal for legal thesis. We w^ish him success, in his new field. 
Local Items. 
—Sorin's billiard table hasn't come y^et. 
-—A number from' Sorin wei.t down to a 
dancfe recently—eiiough said. 
—rFound—Some fountain pens. Apph^ to 
Bro. Alphonsus, Birownson Hall. 
—^Beacom was in the line-up against 
Canton in the - Alassillon-Canton game. 
—^The finals in the contest for the Breeii 
Medal will be held Wednesday evening in 
Washington Hall. 
—^The question - for the coming debate 
between Notre Dame and Iowa University 
has b^een submitted b3'- the lowans. It is: 
"Resolved, That the cities of the "United 
States should seek the solution of their street 
railroad,problems in private ownership." 
—LOST—Two rings. Finders, leaA^e with 
Brother Alphonsus; 
A gold seal ring between Corbv Hall and 
Main Building, return to.Father McManus; 
:A pin with .a lion's head and five" stones'; 
lea\:e .same with Bro. Just, Carroll Hall. 
^-The annual meeting of. the 1907 Golf 

team met the other night. The foUowng officers were elected: John Wooden, Presi­dent; J. Tack - Keefe, Vice-President; R. Kosparr, E. T. T. S. Secretary; J. Coniskii Manager; J. Jardene, Assistant Manager; ,E. J? Alais V Hypo '^ Kenny-Captain. The colors are damask and pea green.- Caps; -will;be put soon bearing the usual modest 
ehiblem, of; the Golfers: 
—Circulars have been issued asking a number of questions concerning your record in athletics. It is-"ther earnest; desire of the: Athletic Management 4hat ever-yone receiv-. 
ing such a circular will answer all questions, and show by their. approval of the plan 
their  willingness  to"  help  in  upbuilding  
athletics.  
—Because  of'the ^number  of  contestants  

for the Breen Medal in Oratory it was' necessaiy to' hold a preliminary'- contest Tuesdaj'in Washington Hall. The successful four were: first, E. F. O'Fhmn; second, W.J. Donohue; third, W; P. Galligan; fourth, F.T.,Collier. The final contest will be held December 5. 
—The Inter-Hall debates .will take place the second week in December. Next week a schedule of the debates will be j)ut on the bulletin boards of the different Halls. It is to be hoped that there will be a large attendance of these contests for the encouragement of the participants. They have prepared long and thorough^, and will certainK'- make a creditable showing. 
—The Brownson Literar3'- and Debating Societj"- held a veiy interesting meeting last ^ undaj'- evening. Speeches or recitations were given \i\ Messsrs. Hundley, Cabrera, O'Learx'-, BrickcA^, Xajulis, Howard, Berry, Fagula and F. McAleenan. Their eiforts were all creditable and were appreciated by the societ3\ Air. Varnum. Parrish expressed some excellent ideas on the " Value of Public Speaking" and was listened to with much interest. He is a former Brownsonite w^ho bids fair to become a thoughtful and pleas­ing speaker. After a few words from Bro. Alphonsus and the three new members who had just been taken in, the meeting adjourned. Great interest" is being shown in the members who are to represent Brownson Hall in the Inter-Hall debates, and thej"- can count on the hearty support of- the Hall at large. 
—^The preliminaries- of the Corbj-- Hall debating society were held Mondaj^ evening, November. 12, the. contestants . acquitting themselves 111 a very, creditable manner. The question for the debate was "Resolved, that public, utilities should be owmed and operated \yy the municipalit3^" The question was, vigbrouslj'- debated by the candidates, the judges, who. were Fathers Ouinlah and Heiser and Professor Harrington, finally awarding the honors of. first, second and third places to Messrs. Hutchins, McNally and Schmidt, in the order named; F. J. Roan was selected as altei-nate. The men who compose Corby's team are now actively engaged in .forming their argumentative forces for the debate with Holy Cross, which.­is scheduled for the evening of Dec. 7; and. are eagerly, awaiting the coming of tlie. contest. Although" this is Corby's first year' in the debating field, it is the expettatioh'^!' of the Corby students that iti^^cvill [prove 
a. most successful one.= . • . ^, ' 






not re Dame Scbolastie 
• DIoCli• QVyA5l • SEMPER-VICTWRV/S- -VIVE- QV/ASI • CRAS • lvlORITV/R\/5 • 
•F-X-A­

VOL. XLI . NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 7, 1807. No. 13. 
The Gridiron Squad. 
/^U R squad of victors, tried aud true, 
. - We hail with cheers and songs. They're worthj' of the Gold and Blue, They've fought the fight, and wpn it too, 
To them all praise belongs. 
.Well have they played the great old game; 
Extol them far and near, Thej are the men that bring us fame, These loyal sons of Notre 'Dame, 
So cheer them, fellows, cheer. 
We praise the scrubs, hurrah again, They take the scoff and jeer, 
• And patient stay behind; but when 
They're needed, then they are the men Who know not auA' fear. 
Then here's to Barry's .sturd\' .team, 
- No better state eleven; May bright successes on them beam. Then cheer them, fans; thcA' are a dream, 
• The Varsity, '07. GEORGE J. FIXJCIGAN, '10. 
Football under 1907 Rules. 
EDWARD M. KENNEDY, 'OS.. 

As predicted, by many coaches, football, as played during the past season, was most successful. The death knell of the old style has been sounded, and it will soon be a matter of history. Few colleges played that style this year, and those w^ho did have realized their folly, and no doubt they will rectify the evil in the future. 
The forward pass, the most radical change, was considerably altered this year. Last season if the ball would touch the ground on " any down, it was awarded to the opposing team where it fell. Now, however, 
if the ball touches the ground, on the first 
or second down,.instead of losing it, the 
offensive team loses fifteen yards, .but the 
ball still remains in its possession. On the 
third down, however, in case of failure,-.the. 
ball goes to the opposing team- where it 
went-into play. •.••. . 
This change seems to be an improvement. On account of it, more opportunity w:as given to the forward pass, and as a result-it was much in evidence. A .well-4rilled team could work this plav- most successfully,, and-the ground gained on a clever -inanip-­ulation of it was considerable. It also gave. xQ.Siia.j chances for trick plays, and. these, • in innumerable forms, were frequently used. 
Thatthe.ten-yard rule is a necessaiy adjunct,, to the new style, has been exemplified time and again. If-the distancewerenot.so great, a team would not resort to forward passes, quarter-back, • on-side kicks and long end runs, which, to say the least, are dangerous. 
Weight has ceased to be the predominating essential, speed has taken its place. In -the . words-of a well-known coach :."We want heavy, fast men, but we will sacrifice weight for speed." The game has so progressed that weight and strength, are=. no match. for science, speed and agility. However, this does not eliminate weight entirely, for if-a team sees that its opponents'-line.is. weak, old-style football-will be plajed, and efifectively played, despite the ten^-yard rule. So weight and speed are necessary. ••: 
The bulk of the work rests on the half­backs and ends. The latter must break through the opposing line to receive the forward pass. .In case of trick plays, they must act quickly, and must watch the ball 
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
continually for on-side kicks; in case of a 
punt they must, as formerlj'^, be down the 
field with the ball. This requires speed and 
endurance. 
The half-back, as double-line defense is 
now used, must be prepared either to break 
the interference or to do the tackling. If the 
man who is to receive- the forward pass 
breaks through the ends, the backs must 
prevent him from touching the ball, and 
they must not touch it themselves unless 
they can surely secure it, otherwise they 
lose the distance the ball has advanced from 
where it w^as put into play. They must 
also be able to carry the ball in the open 
field, to receive and make the forward pass. 
The full-back, as previously, must be a line plunger. When a team ha*s third down and two or three yards to gain, it is not going to risk a pass or an end run, as;it ma3'^ be thrown back for a loss of five or ten yards.- The full-back is then called upon to make the required distance. He also forms interference for his backs, and backs up the ends rather than the line. 
The quarter-back has a position of large responsibility. He must be skilful at throw­ing the ball for the forward pass, quarter­back kicks arid runs, running back puts, and above all, w^hen the signal for the forward pass is called, to watch his. end and decide whether or not he should make the pass. 
As regards the line-men, the tackles should be almost as fast as the end, so as to assist in breaking the interference, and to tackle in the open field. He is also often called upon to carry the ball. The duties of the three centre-men have changed very little. Football with respect to these has remained about the same. 

Punting forms an important part of the game. This fact may be due to failures in end runs or forward passes; some teams have developed excellent punters whose kicks are difficult to handle. The quarter­back and on-side kick do not require more risk than most of the other plays, and as they are good ground-gainers, they are extensively .used. 
Drop and place kicks are also much in vogue. A team within forty yards of its opponents' goal generally tries a place or drop kick, if i t has a man of ability on 
the team. These kicks help to increase the 
total score, and some victories and defeats 
are traced directly to these plays. 
The addition of an official, the second 

umpire, has done much to eliminate rough 
play. The referee as usual watches the 
ball. The first umpire watches the line and 
all unnecessary roughness, and reports the 
same. The penalties which are inflicted are 
very^ severe, especially for slugging. The 
second umpire watches the plays in the 
open, especially hurdling and holding. On 
punts, he decides the possession of the ball. 
Everything, as far as possible, has been 
done to eliminate rough work and to base 
the game on head and team work. Although 
the evolution has been rapid, there are 
still some points which require attention. 
The many and serious injuries forecasted for open play failed to materialize. In fact, there have been fewer injuries this year than previously. The number of injuries to col­lege men and trained athletes w^ere indeed few. This may be accounted for by the fact that men have been more thoroughly coached in falling so as to break the fall as much as possible. 
For the public, the game is brilliant and spectacular, even to those who know very little of the inside workings of the game. What the public wants to see is the centre of attraction, and that is the ball. As most of the plays are open the public was satis­fied, especially as regards kicks and passes. 
On the whole, the season of 1907 was most successful. It has shown that debrutal­ized football has come up to expectations; it is a great advancement over the old-style game. It has fully convinced players and public that clean football can be played without losing any of the merits and enthusiasm of the old game. 
^ • » 
The Varsity "Subs." 
A WORD of praise to the Varsity "subs," To whom we owe esteem, Who get their knocks and awful rubs, But yet support the team. 
They've pep galore in every play, 
They push and plunge with might, 
And never do we hear them say] 
They're -wearied of-the fight.­
A. A., HEBERT, '11 

The Season's Schedule. 

On Thanksgiving Day the football season of 1907 passed into Notre Dame football history as one of the many successful years on the gridiron. Early in the fall things looked bad for the Varsity, and the pros­pects for a good team were anj^thing but bright. But Coach Barry and Captain Callicrate set to work with what, they had, and gradually a team was developed that Notre Dame may be proud of. Little bj- little the team improved; game after game they played stronger, until the first game of the Indiana championship was 
-plaj^ed in Indianapolis against Indiana. The most lo3^al Notre Dame rooter dared not do more than hope for victory; and when the Varsit^^ played last year's champions to a standstill, holding Indiana to a nothing to nothing score, the hard work of Conch Barry and Captain Callicrate, received its reward. The next big game came with Purdue, and for the first time in several years Notre Dame gave the . Boilermakers a good clean trouncing, winning the game by the score of 17 to 0. The season ended with St. A^incent's College of Chicago, and Notre Dame finished the year without having lost one game, tieing two and win­ning six, having scored a total of 137 points to 20. 
A large amount of credit for the showing made by the team this season must go to Coach Barry, for, as was said before, the material on hand w^hen the season.opened was about the poorest Notre Dame ever offered a football coach. Not that the men individually were incapable, for taken sep­arately the men were good; but instead of a division of weight, making a line and backfield possible, nearly every man on the squad was underweight for a lineman, and those who had the weight had had little or no experience. For the backfield there was a w^ealth of material, including such men as Captain Callicrate and Miller of last year's Varsity. Speaking of Miller reminds us of another display of Coach Barry's football sense. For when things were going from bad to worse about the middle of the season Barry took Miller from the backfield and put him in at centre, 
a position he had never played in his life; in fact he had never played any place but in the backfield. 
By nearly every critic in the State Miller was picked as an all-Indiana centre, which must prove but one thing: that in Coach Barry lay the brains that made Notre Dame's winning team a possibility. Then, too, the many chances that the team 
COACH THOMAS BARRY. 

underwent, especially in the line, displayed Barry's prowess. Munson was used at every position in the line during the past season. Starting him at centre, Barry was compelled to move him to guard when "Nick" Doyle left school. He w^ent from there to tackle, and finally landed on end, and on defense baclced up the line. Passing, it might be well to mention that in every position Munson put up a good game and was one of the most valuable men on the team. 
The . season, as a whole, was a grand success; it is to be regretted that the Indiana championship did not come to Notre Dame, but that it went to no one else is a consolation. Notre Dame has an equal claim to it with Indiana, arid is con­tent to wait for another year that they may tr\" again to land the championship at Notre Dame. 
Captain Callicrate proved to be worthy 
CAPTAIN CAXLICRATE. 
of the honor bestowed upon him when he was elected captain. A harder worker Notre Dame never liad, and a cleaner, better foot­ball play^er would be hard to find. The many duties connected with the captaincy of the team affected Callicrate's playing early in the season, but in the three big games he was back in form, and played the game that has made for him the reputation of the best half-back in tlie state of Indiana this season. Callicrate's work in the Purdue game was as-fine an exhibition of football playing as anyone might ask to see. With his team­mates his word was law, and every member of the team will remember the man who captained Notre Dame's football team in 1907 as a hard worker, a brilliant and clean football player. 

In commenting on the season. Coach, and Captain, let us not forget the scrubs. As the man behind the gun is the soldier, so it is with the scrubs; for it is the scrubs behind the team that malie a good team possible. Enough credit is never given the scrub, the man who day after day takes his bumps along with the regular, oftentimes ta;ljing more than the regular, for the star must be saved for the game. With nothing to win individually, as a regular, who has a chance for a reputation and a name, the scrub plods along through the season filling in ocay place he is asked to go, working as hard, training as hard and remaining as lo3'al as the best man. on the team; to him everj^ college man owes a debt, for without him no school can turn out a football team. And so we say to such men as Dugan, Beckman, Hague, Ditton, Diener, Duffy, Schmitt, Dionne, Murphy, Dillon, Boyle, Sprenger and Keefe, 
it is because of such as you that Notre Dame had a winning football team, and every student at Notre Dame returns to A-ou sincere thanks and gratitude. 
Of this season's team we will lose but tvAO men, Capt. Callicrate and Munson. Both men graduate in June, and although both good men, w^hose loss will be keenly felt, the chances for next year's team are the brightest that we have had in years. Such men as Dugan, Duffy, Schmitt, Dionne, Dillon, Boyle and a number of other men on the second team, will be Varsity caliber by next season, and Notre Dame should have one of the best teams in the history of the school. Following is a complete list of games played this year: 
Oct. 12—Notre Dame, 32; P. and S., 0. Oct. 19—Notre Dame, 23; Franklin, 0. Oct. 26—Notre Dame, 22; Olivet, 4. Nov. 2—-Notre Dame, 0; Indiana, 0. Nov. 9—Notre Dame, 22; Knox, 4. Nov. 15—Notre Dame, 0; Alumni, 0. Nov. 23—Notre Dame, 17; Purdue, 0. Nov. 28—Notre Dame, 21 ; St. Vincent's, 12. 
R. L. Bracken,. '08. 
The Moleskin Men. 
V/l/HEN we stop to sing the praises " Of the teams of Notre Dame, Let US not forget the ball team Which this year won us our fame. 
Let each team that ever struggles For the grand old Gold and Blue Know that Cali as a captain Had for equals very few. 
Big "Red" Miller in at centre, And at half-back doughtA^ "M?c," With O'Leary still to call on, " And "Bill"' Rv-an quarter-back; 
Paine and Burke to fill the guard holes,— Tackles, Donovan, Lynch, With our "Rosy " alwaj" ready. To assist them in a pinch; 
'Heinie" Burdick, Woods or Munson, Each an end-man quite supreme. Last of all—^the brilliant coaches Barry, Bracken—what a, team ! 
Don't forget our own "Doc" Berteling, Who Purdiie's defense did mar, Nor Al Mertes who for Miller, Pla3'ed centre like a stW. 
To the Indiana Champions, Let us then pour forth our best; To the.team that played such havoc With the others in the West. 
In the 3'ears to come, recalling Every year by its "eleven," We may well proclaim high praises For our heroes of '07. 
L. MORIARTY, '10. 
Varsity J907. 
CAPT. CALLICRATE (Half-Back). 

This was - Callicrate's last year on the tearn. To say he was one of the best, half­backs Notre Dame ever had w^ould only do him justice. He was picked by every critic in the State for a place on the all-Indiana team, and the man who attempts to fill his place next season has an awful task before him. Callicrate is of special value to the team, for he is a combination player; that is, a good man at the old game, where a man who can make two yards a down is a star, and at the new^ game where he is a brilliant player, a fast, open-field runner, a good dodger and always good for a couple of yards. His defensive work suffered in 
SCHOLASTIC 197 

the early part of the season as compared wnth his work of former years, but Cal­licrate's physical condition this season was by no means what it was in the past; moteover, the duties connected with the captaincy' affected his work somew^hat. Yet in the two big games he.wasback in form and played his usual star game. 
HARRY MILLER (Centre). This was Miller's second year and he earned the title of being the most valuable man on Notre Dame's team. Formerly a back, this year Miller was used at centre; he was given a place on tlie all-Indiana team.. The spirit which he showed when taken from the backfield and placed in the line was as fine an example of the proper Varsity spirit as one might ask. to see. His playing was brilliant; on offense he. w^orked at centre, and on defense was used to back up the line. The Varsity's showing against Indiana was in a large measure occasioned by Miller's work behind the line. He can play in the backfield and any position from one end of the line to the other. He has been elected as captain of the team for next season: 
FRANK MUNSON (End). Munson although having played but two years will graduate in June. His work this season was exceptionally good, and, like Miller, Munson played nearly every posi­tion on the team. He is the largest man on the squad and also one of the fastest. He has ability as a punter and a drbp­kicker, plays a strong tackle and a fast end. After Miller was injured Munson w^as used to back up the line, and in the Purdue game Was a star in that position. His great speed made him a most valuable man for the team, for with his speed and weight he could be called upon to do most any­thing. Munson w as also given a place on the all-Indiana team by several critics, and his work throughout the season was good. SAM DOLAN (Tackle, Guard). . Dolan was a regular last year and would undoubtedly have been one this season had it not been for the fact that his knee troubled him all season, and after the first game he was taken to the hospital -where he underwent an operation in hopes, of* being in shape for the big games; But not 
198 NOTRE DAME 
until the Purdue arame w-as he in anv kind of shape, and then was b3'- no means the Dolan of old. Coach Barrj'- used him in the last few games as a sub, and his w ork was all that could be asked for. Dolan will return for another year and with his bum knee in shape will without doubt prove to be one of the best linemen in the state. 

PAUL MCDONALD (Half-Back). This was McDonald's first 3^ear on the team. He -P as late in getting started, but once going he proved to be one of the most brilliant men Notre Dame ever had. His work in the three big games—Indiana, Pur­due and St. Vincent's—was wonderful. The last game of the season—St. Vincent's— would surely^ have been lost had it not been for McDonald. With but a few minutes to pla3'^ in the last half and the score 12 to 11 against the Varsit^^ McDonald tore off another long run for a touchdown and saved the day. for Notre Dame. On defense he was equall3'^ strong. He too was given a place on the all-Indiana team by several men. AIcDonald will return for another year. WILLIAM RYAN (Quarter). Ryan stepped into ex-Capt. Bracken's shoes with ease and played a star game at quarter throughout the season. He is a brilliant open-field runner, a dodger, a strong kicker, and ran the team with plent3'^ of speed. Ryan had one bad fault and that was running back when carrying the ball. Yet at times, as in the Purdue game, he w^ould get awa3'^ by this means, but as a whole, it proved unsuccessful. He was a sure man in the backfield, and his clever tackling saved the Varsity several times during the season. At handling punts Ryan w^as also a good man. 
- PETER O'LEARY (Full-Back). O'Leary w^as another first-year man. He w^as perhaps the best man on the team to give the man carrying the ball interference, and on defense w^as a tower of strength. He was always good for a first down when a couple of yards were needed to get it, and was a hard worker and a clean player. His best w^ork, perhaps, w^as his ability to help the runner, as he w^as always with the man with the ball, pulling him away from 
tacklefs; many of the long runs made by Capt. Callicrate aiid McDonald were possible 
SCHOLASTIC 

because  of  0'Lear3'-'s  assistance.  O'Leary  
will  return  another  year.  
• FAY  WOOD  (End).  
"Woody"  Tvas  injured  in  the  Indiana  
game  and  w-as  unable  to  finish  out  the  

season. Up to the time of his injurj'" he pla3-ed a star game at end and was a hard man to get b3'-, was fast and strong, and on going down on punts was a good- man and a hard tackier. Although Coach Barry did not use him to an3'- great extent as a punter, "Wood3^" was one of the best punters on the ^team, and earh'- in the season disp]a3'ed rare form in the kicking department. This was Wood's first 3'-ear on the team and he will return for another one. 
PAUL DONOYAN (Tackle.) 

When things were going bad and linemen at a premium Donovan was given a chance at tackle and filled the bill perfectly. On defense he was a strong man, and late in the season he was a star man on tackle-around pla3^s. In the last game of the 3^ear Donovan annexed man3'^ yards for the Varsit3'-, running with the ball from tackle position. This was his first year on the team, and judging from his w^ork this season, one ma3'- say that there will be things doing w^hen Donovan gets to work next season. He was a hard worker, a good trainer, and.in eveiy w-ay the right kind of a man to make a winning football team. 
ROBERT PAINE (Guard). "Possum" Paine was the "find" of the season. Last 3'-ear Paine played with Corby Hall, and when he came out for the Varsity this year neither Rob himself, nor anyone else, thought he would make the team. Coach Barry started to w^ork on him, and gave him a chance in the first game; it was then evident that Paine had the stufi" in him. Game by game he improved until the end of the season, and his work during the whole season was a good steady variet3''. He was always in the game, always work­ing, never hurt, and proved to be one of the best guards in the State. Paine will return another year and has great prospects for the future. HENRY BURDICK (End). At the end of last, season Burdick was slated for a regular position this 3'-ear, but 

throughout the early part of the season work, and. does, it well. Mertes can be 
his work w^as far below^ what he bad done used at guard or tackle and iii :either place 
the year before. But once he hit his gait can put up a.good game." \-\''-­
he came fast, and in the last few games : --• JOHN BERTELING (Ouafter)'. 
proved to-be a star end. -His work in the Bertelihg was,the smallest niail. on the Purdue game was brilliant; he was down team,", and yet j)roved to be one of the best. 

on everj^ punt like a demon, lackledhard His work at quarter, whenever -lie.w-as used, and sure, was in every plaj''. and .put up a was good. Although not as fast a man as wonderful defensive game. He.is a big man Rj^an, he proved, able at, any time, to take for an end and has. plenty of'speed which' Ryan^s place at quarter, and.run the team makes him a valuable man for the team. 

, equalh'as well. In the Purdue gan e young 
EDV^^ARD LYNCH (Tackle). 

" "Doc"'was, given his. first >chance in fast' Ly^nch Avas another man of the ..Donovan . company and rose to tlie occasion like a tj^pe: never sa3'-ing a word on the field, 
veteran. Itis.tobe regretted.that Berteling always working, never hurt, and, always' 
finishes school in June. .He has excellent judg­in the game. On defense he" was a strong 
'. ment and the rnakings of a,brilliant quarter-man, and on offense was-good "at making 

::backi:./ '. ^:-V. : .:•''/. 
holes for the backs and helping the runner. 

,'• .CLARENCE CRIPE (Half-Back). Two men could not be found, more alike 
Special mention, is. made ..of.- Cripe whose on a football field than • Donovan and'. 

broken.arm put him out of the. running Lynch. Both good hard., workers, clean' early ..in the season. Cripe was one of the players, unhurtable, and possessing wonder­most promising half-backs in the squad, and ful strength on defense. This was Lynch's had it not been for his broken arm would first year on the team, and he. too, will, undoubtedly have made good. He is a small return for another year. With such men man, but is. lightning fast, and as he will as Lynch and Donovan ' to start next be in school; next y^eai*, - barring accidents, season's line, there seems little tobe afraid of. 
he:will without doubt be numbered among CHESTER BURKE (Guard). • v. ­
the regulars. ' . .. • Burke did not come out until, late in; .the'; 
season and did. not get in shape-untif the' How We Won. > 
Purdue game. He w^as ^ent.-into the Indiana 
game,-and, while he lasted, :put-, up a star 
 was Franklin, that first•Tnet.;defeat; 

game, but once in condition he proved to be IT 
Theirs was riouglit;-^twenty-tliree \\'as our score; a good man both on offense and defense. He And then-Qlivet; done up so" neat,—'-; was fast and heady and was a'hard man.-*. TwentyTt\v6 we secured, .they iDutfourl 
•Next caine .Knox, who most, manfully-.fought, 
to keep from breaking through and spoiling . 
^.But.-.we made them look awfully glunf; 
plays L before they were: started.; :He was a, 
•li'w^as'just a: twice ,two that they. gbt,> 
strong man oh defense and was .always w^ith . 

While, our touclidowns -we're; four." and'-then some. the man carrying the ball, Jf the .play went 
Indiana, was- next on.; the -roll," - --/v • '•.{ .'--' 
through the line. :This ..was ;Btirkg's. first. 
A; .very good team,'I* declare,.' ,•.•. .^;r"'-^''; 
year on the teani and he too wiU^return ; 

They kept, us'from crossing-their^-goal ;>-=-, another year. With such'-men.jas Burkie, •-We-did'likewise with ; something itorspare. Lynch, Donovan and Paine to open>seasoh, Then ;at last- came the.-mighty -Piifdue,— . 
- Seventeen "was the. niark rfhat ;we. Bit-,; ­
we say again: Watch -us^next season.. 

While'.their scdre^ was'two" less"'-than-,two; ' ALBERT MERTES (Gehtre). Sn-- :< ". So .Iv'guessjn.6w..'tha-t;:N; D.' is/Mt. 
He was the lightest line/man ih the squad.-. 
That -n'as; gobdj;..tint. i-,must:. not; foi^et'; •

After , Miller's injury Meirtes \was put at 
-' The last game of all .th'iat we; played^ centre, and for the rest ;.6fcthe ^season :,St.- yincent/.took twelve, -Itwas^'a-lot -.'".^ remained there. He weighs but 159 pounds, . . When you- think:,of.vflie:rec6rd we'^made; 
But we took :them;to;camn like-the rest: 
and yet held his own with eyery man he • 
Twenty-drie.'wasXourj ehd'of "the ,^^ 

met this year. He is a hard and Twilling. 
JO.ur season, as''all.may.attest,,,- '5/ ;';'.."^ ' w^orker; like Lynch and-Donovan, he never ; = Has fra. recordlthat j won't; be Vbeatf Jsoon; opens his mouth, but plods along; does his 
BERT G. MARIS; 
Track'Outlook 

.. .prospects for-a. winning .track team, this season, are bright. In-the.first place a gopd coach~ has been secured and already he has aroused rnore interest in track athletics than;has been shown here in several years, Gartier-Field track has undergone several improvements. arid still more are to be made.:The old bicycle, track has been cut 
• away and a-good.i4 mile track will greet ^the men in the' rsprihg ,w.hen •.they""'-staH twork outside. .The straight'away is due to receive a. new coat. of. cinders- which, rare 
.- ouA the. way now- and everything • necessary will be ;dohe to havie a good.iield this year. As yet no:-indoor meets have^ been settled upon; but the chances are .that Indiana, Eurdue and Wabash will be taken on;, it is also likely that another triangular meet will be-puUed^ off.here thisvwinter, the last one 
SCHOLASTIC 
2m 

The fall handicap and cross-country club brought out several good inen, especially in "the dashes and distance runs. Tri SHafer and .Hebenstreit, Coach .Maris ^appears to have some "comers," and ..with" such men as Ryan, and^McDonald,of football;fame, a sprinter ..should, develop. ..Devine has perhaps shown the-best form ofthie half-nailers, and Roche; 'who won' the" cross-country-'run, appears to be the best^-tniler; but with such men as' Earish, Shea, Lvrich, Dean, O'Brien, Fuchs and Arnold on., hand, the distance runs ought to be,cared for. Murphy, Dolan, AVood, Burke,"Munsbn, Donovan and Mertes should do something in the weight events, and all things considered, Notre Daine should . have a strong" track team "this "year. ' 
Goach Maris revived the cross-country running this fall. Officers were" elected 'as follows: president,-J. Roth;' secretary and treasurer, Schafer; captain, L. Moriarty. Runs weretaken daily ran'girig all tH'eway frofn"4 toS" milesi'^arid' oriNov^^ 21 the final race w^as run.- Nearly a dozen.'men started, and despite the bad condition of the weather the meet: proved. t:o-= be "> very successful. Roach's "time of 28.minutes, "40 I'-S'^^'se^onds for a • five-inile course was-exceptionally good, and .the "work, of Shea, who'^pro^d to be the "dark-horse," showed class. 
: • •• -.R. L. BRACKENjt^OS;': 
-;•:.; 

^ • — 
,, .A. S.ong for the ,.yictprs. 
l:-ifiX'Jjr 
.LJURJRAH for the-.boys of Notre;I)a^e.!£.--<,f-/ .The linesmen, tried and, true,,­
j>!ufj-n
Like'a wall stood fimi. when the "line-bnck" came, F'or the'sake of the Gt.id"'and-'Blue. ^ - "^"^'-^ • 
Three cheers, for the backs wl^o Q^ip?>ly;<,sped.-,. 
Throusrh the hole in the hostile line, ^ . 
And eiagerly toward the goal-post "fled ' * ~' " 
'"At the signal's lilted'sign." •-*^' 

Give three times three for the daring run. The length of the frantic field; ^ " • .'-^•5­"" Remembering only it*-must be'won', ' -' '-'-•••'• 
being pronounced a grand success. • 

 That=.only-the <•
 weak willr-yield: ."iJ:- ^.•:"ri_* 

i^Leroy Keach.< is captain of the-team, and )the' old I members »who will report when .the seasonvopens are: Scales,'high hurdles, high and broad jump • Moriartyj pole vault 
/and .quarter, mile; McDonough, high and broad jump;. O'Leary, middle distance and weights; Gripe, middle distance and quarter mile; Wood,.weights, Roth, distance runner. 
Ah! many a team "that boasted high ' ' ' .'"' Has s6eri its' ibo'dtide TCfeir -"-•'" -"*•'­.'And the"victor's laurels proudly-lie~" .'-•-^ ".;-•.'" ^. .-.-On the^heads that know riot, fear. • . i,'.'," 
So cheer once riiore'for the Gold and Blue; "•' :; .5nd hail her with loud acclaim;H-: . •%,:.; O the.spirit she" breathes .is:ia,'/spirit;true,;v-;'i.;--" , .The spirit.of Notre ,Dame., f ..H; LEIIW|DGE. 



Notre Dame Scholastic 
Publiihcd every SatutcUiy during Term Time at the 
Univenlty of Notre Dame. 
Entered as second-cSass matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Terms; $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid. 
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, 
Notre Dame. Indiana. 

Notre Dame, Indiaita, December 7f J907. 
Board of Editors. 
ROBERT L. BRACKEN, '08 WILLIAM LENNARTZ, '08 
FRANCIS T. MAHER, '08 TARNUM A. PARISH, '09 
IGNATroS E. MCNAMEE, '09 JAMES J. QUINLAN, '08 
JOSEPH J. BOYLE, '08 JAMES J. FLAHERTY, '08 
EDWARD M. KENNEDY, '08 ROBERT L. SALEY, '08 
FRANCIS X. CULL, '09 OTTO A. SCHMID, '09 


GEORGE J. FINNIGAN, '1 0 COE- A. MCKENNA, '1 0 

—^The stringency in the money market has probably helped to agitate the postal bank question. Postmaster-Gen. Postal Bank Meyer seems to be quite enthu­and siastic about establishing such Parcel Post a system. First of all, he thinks that foreigners would place more confidence in such banks than they do in private institutions. Hence a great part of the money that immigrants send abroad yearly,—amounting to about $70,000,000,— 
•would be kept in this country. Again, Mr. Meyer thinks that a system of postal banks would tend to prevent a stringency in the time of a financial crisis. At present, when such a crisis occurs, depositors withdraw their money from the banks, if they can, and put it away, thus depriving trade of money at a time when such money is most needed. If there were postal banks, it is quite probable that instead of stowing away their gold during a financial strin­gency these depositors would remove it to the postal savings bank. In that way, it would %^t back into the channels of trade. Another favorable feature about such a system is that it would tend to create habits of economy and thrift among the poorer classes. This alone is a stfong argument in favor of postal banks. 
Along with the introduction of postal 
SCHOLASTIC 

banks might come the parcel post system. At any rate, it is quite generally held that there ought to be a change made in the existing postal rates. For instance, one cent an ounce for merchandise seems a little too high and one cent a pound for periodicals seems too low. Some are of the opinion that the present limit of four pounds for parcels sent by mail ought to be increased to seven and some would advise making it fifteen. At the same time, the rate for merchandise ought to be changed from one cent an ounce to something like two or three cents a pound. In the German Empire there is a parcel post system, and a package up to the weight of about 101b can be sent to any part of the empire for twelve cents. Of course, in a country so much larger than Germany as ours is, the rate would neces­sarily have to be higher, but even then such a system would be much more convenient than the express companies for the trans­portation of small packages. Furthermore, rural districts and towns not reached'by express companies would be highly benefited by such a system. On the whole, we think that both the postal bank and parcel post are worthy of deliberate consideration. 
—Occasionally some of the less conserv­ative representatives of the American press go ranting in regard to the Self-government conduct of our government in toward the inhabitants of The Philippines, the Philippines. They would have immediate independence granted to the people of these islands. Concluding from the results of the elections not long since held in the islands for representatives to the first assembly con­stituted there, we would say that self-government and not independence is the problem that confronts the people of the Philippines. The elections evidenced, and very plainly, that. these people are not only incapable of governing themselves but do not seem really anxious to make the attempt. The number of qualified voters in the island, compared to the entire popula­tion, is proportionately small. About half of the entire number of qualified voters took advantage of the sufirage held out to them. This apathy may either be the 
result of discouragement, or may signify contentment with present conditions. "We would rather believe the latter, for the attitude of the Philippines in general does not seem to be an excited desire to estab­lish an immediate independent government. That they have proven themselves as ^-et incapable of self-government was shown in the choice of a leader to represent one of the main parties in the contest for the choice of members to the Assembl3^ There were two principal jjarties in the field,— the Progressives and the Nationalists. The latter, who advocated political indepen­dence, were in the majority. In their selec­tion of a leader good judgment and high ideals of citizenship were conspicuously lacking. Their head, Dr. Dominador Gomez, is a man whose career has not been such as would make him a worthy and fit leader for a people seeking independence. As president of a workingman's union he has been charged with a misappropriation of funds, and is under the ban of the law for contempt of court for having violated an order concerning the bankrupt union of which he is president. So far these people, otherwise enlightened and progressive, have shown themselves unable to cope with the problem of self-government, and are as j^et onlv" novices in the experiment. 
—The recent panic, w'hich has caused such an unsettled condition of affairs, is bound 
to leave effects which will be very  
The Panic  noticeable.  Besides  making  and  
and  losing fortunes  for  manj'-, it  has  
Its Effects.  opened  the  eyes  of  all;  many  
people  now  know  more  about  

the financial and banking conditions of our country than they would have known in a lifetime had not this panic occurred. The most important effect will be the passing of New York as the money centre of this country. Our Western bankers and capital­ists who had large sums of money invested and deposited in the East were unable to obtain any currency when they most needed it. The New York bankers, actuated by the motive of self-preservation, told the AVest to look out for itself, and turned a deaf ear to all calls for currency. 
No longer will western money go East so 

abundant^ to be invested or deposited. The average banker after having his eyes opened by the recent panic will deposit his money in institutions w^here he can get it when he needs it, even it the rate of interest is not so attractive. Former Secretary Shaw in a recent speech told the bankers of the East that "the confidence of the West in the East must be restored if conditions are to be as formerly." This may never be accom­plished ; if brought about, it will take con­siderable time. The natural result will be that western money w^ill stay in the West. For the reason that the largest part of our productive soil being located in the West, and on account of the natural resources of the West, the money centre is bound to move toward the West. 
—There are very few people w^ho really know the value of a good scrap-book. Easily kept, it often saves much The Value time and trouble for persons of a who are constantly in need of Scrap - Book. readj'^ reference concerning prob­
lems of recent origin. The daily papers and monthly magazines are contin­ually discussing problems of vital interest; their columns are filled with articles written b^'^ men who have devoted their lives to some special line of w^ork; science, art, literature and politics, each is treated in as masterly a manner as possible, and con­cerns the latest phase of the facts. These publications are the histories of to-day and the oracles of to-morrow, and their discus­sion of these many problems are well worthy of our attentio'n. To one who takes the trouble or interest to save such clippings as he mav- deem of future benefit, a well-kept scrap-book rarely fails to prove of value. How often our attention is called to an article of importance that has appeared in some recently published paper; how niany times we remember having read and appreciated a well-w^ritten editorial or an interesting review from one of our weekly periodicals, yet we have failed to save the paper, and its usefulness is lost. An article clipped from a newspaper or magazine and carefully filed or pasted in a scrap-book may become a source of information to which it would otherwise be difficult to refer. 
IM&.NAGER MCGANNON. 
T. Paul McGannon, w^ho for the past two years acted as assistant manager, took hold of the managerial reins this year, and although compelled by unfavor­able conditions to as­sume his duties at a most trying time, proved equal to the task 
and in every way competent for the position. 
Few persons realize how difficult is the posi­
tion of manager and how very considerable 
is the work connected with the office. 
Owing to several misunderstandings, Manager McGannon was forced to make out his football schedule in the fall. In a few weeks' time, however, he arranged a most satisfactory number of games. Since then he has been working on an eastern trip for the baseball team, and although incomplete as yet, the schedule is well under way and bids fair to be the best Notre Dame ever had. 
With the exception of Yale, Harvard, and Princeton, Notre Dame will meet the pick of the East in baseball this spring. The three mentioned schools w^ere unable to give him games as their schedule w^as already complete. All of the best teams in the West will be taken in, and with the chances favorable for a winning baseball team, this season will very likely be the year of years in Notre Dame's baseball history. Mr. McGannon graduated from the law school last June and will in all probability enter the law^ business next year. His work at Notre Dame, both as a student and in athletics before he finished school, marks him as the kind of alumni Notre Dame needs, and here's hoping for more McGannons. 
ROBERT BRACKEN (Assistant Coach). 
"Peggy" Bracken is a man eminently fitted for the position of assistant coach, w^hich he held this year. He is a man adapted by nature for the present open style of play; he thoroughly understands Coach Barry's methods, having served under him as captain last year; he is every 
inch a Notre Dame man with the best 
interests of Notre Dame at heart. These 
three things, together with the fact that 
whatever "Peggy" does is well done, which 
is the greatest compliment that any man 
can be paid, have made him a valued man 
in coaching the 1907 team. 
Bracken, who in his football career has played about every position back of the line, spent considerable of his time this fall in teaching the backfield men the fine points of the game. For the rest of the time he had complete charge of the "scrubs," and, much to his credit, he turned out, from new material, a second team which gave the Varsity many a hard tussle in scrimmage. And with Bracken, coaching was not all theory. Repeatedly he lined up with his proteges and willingly took the same hard bumps as his men. A thing like this goes far toward making a coach dear to his men. 

In the 0 to 0 Varsity-Alumni game. Bracken w^as at quarter-back for the "old-timers," and although not in condition and greatly handicapped by a slippery field, was one of the stars of the game, and several times showed flashes of his 1906 form which won him a unanimous place on the all-Indiana team. Bracken, who graduates this year, has made 1907 a glorious finish to a stellar career on the gridiron. 
^:^^^h^\\ Pro«.nf>rt«, J°'° ^^ *^^^ ^'^ ^^^ spring training trip. 
South Bend Central League team wiU.m . 
all probability train here again this season,. 
When Coach Curtis issues the first call and will play the usual practice games with' for Varsity baseball players, the chances are Notre Dame. Manager McGannon, although that there will be so many men on hand ^ot ready at present to announce the base-. that the coach will have to make a "weed-^^\\ schedule, has arranged one of the best ing" before they even go out. Notre Dame schedules Notre Dame ever had. Not only, never had so much good baseball material ^as he taken on every good team in, the on hand as she has this year. There are ^ggt but has arranged games with .the enough good baseball players in school best in the East, and this year the team will to turn out two or three teams. Of last j^ake the long delayed eastern trip. Unfor­season's team, Captain Waldorf, Curtis, tunately he could not get games with;, Perce, Kuepping, Boyle, and Farabaugh will Harvard or Yale, but with nearly, every.-, be out of the game, all good men and men ^ther eastern team of any note games have, who will be missed; but for each man's y^^oxi arranged. 
place there will be at least two men trying ^^^ to land the position. There will be the . , . ^- xj x following old players with us again this season: Brogan, third base; Bonham, left field; McKee, centre; Dubuc, general all- NOTRE DAME, 21; ST. VINCENT'S, 12../; around star, pitcher, pinch-hitter and out- On Thanksgiving Day the Varsity played fielder; "Dreams" Scanlon, pitcher; Ray and defeated St. Vincent's College team of Scanlon, whose injury early in the season Chicago, by the score of 21 to. 12. Without.. last year kept him out of condition through- attempting to detract any fi-om St. Vincent's out the season, and "Jimmie" Cook, catcher, team, in justice to the Varsity it must be 
Last season the Varsity was an excep- said that they by no means put up the tionally strong combination of baseball game against the Chicago college that, players, and there is any number of men in they are capable of playing, and although/ reserve who were compelled to be satisfied St. Vincent's has a good bunch of men, the with a place on the halj teams last season score should have been about 21 to 0, had. that could have very likely made almost any the Varsity shown the class to which they team in the West. Such men as Centlivre, belong. As it was, both of St. Vincent's Shafer, Fish, Scanlon, Burke, Boyle, Kelly, scores were the result of fumbles, and neither Molony, Daniels, Dodge, Philips, and a score was scored by straight football. Ryan for of others, are all of Varsity caliber and wiU the first time this season dropped a punt . undoubtedly make the competition close for in the backfield, and Captain CaUicrate .was . a place on the team this season. guilty of fumbling on an end run. During 
Last year's star backstop, Harry Curtis, the first half of the game Notre Dame.played has been engaged to be Coach. His reputa- like a lot of green men learning the game.',_ tion is so well known that it is but a waste They v\rould show^ form for about tvyo plays . of time to attempt saying anything more and then would all run loose. Once they about him. He was without doubt the got started, as they did in the,.last few, best college catcher playing baseball last minutes of the game, there was nothing season, and has now landed with the New much to it but Notre Dame. The first half , York Giants. He will remain with our team ended 6 to 6, and there were a few minutes throughout the season, as he graduates in the second half when St. Vincent's led from the law school in June and will not by one point and the Notre Dame rooters join New York until after school closes, looked foolish. But it was only for a 
A. bench man is w^hat Notre Dame has moment, as McDonald got busy again and. needed for some time. Formerly some tore around the end for seventy-five yards "big leaguer" was engaged to coach the and a touchdown. On the way past, let... team, .and just when he was needed most it be known that had it not been for the^ he would be compelled to leave in order to brilliant work of McDonald throughout the 
206 NOTRE DAME 
the chances are that the Varsity 
game would have ended their successful season 
•with a defeat. He -w^as the man -^^ho undoubtedly saved the day^ for Notre Dame, as his t-wo long runs in the last half practically \\r'on the game for the Varsity. Captain Callicrate plaA'-ed his usual star game until injured during the second half, and the first touchdown was in a large measure occasioned by the Captain's efforts. The game started with the Varsity-
receiving the kick off, and they went in at 
once to w^in, but after they had carried the 
ball half the length of the field they went 
to pieces; and from then on all during the 
first half the game put up by^ the Varsity 
was a ragged affair. Capt. Callicrate and 
McDonald carried the ball within striking 
distance two or three times, and finalh^, 
after getting to the 10-yard line again 
Callicrate in three bucks went over. A few 
minutes later Ryan dropped a punt and a 
St. Vincent's man fell on it for a touchdown. 
Score: Notre Dame, 6; St. Vincent's, 6. 
In the second half the Varsity scored first, McDonald getting away for a long run and a touchdown. Five minutes later Burson picked up a fumble and raced sixty yards for a touchdown and Kennedy kicked goal, giving St. Vincent's a lead of one point. But McDonald rose to the occasion again, and by a brilliant run off tackle went over half the length of the field, passing and straight-arming half of the St. Vincent team. Ryan made the game safe a few^ minutes later by putting a place kick between the bars from the thirty-yard line. 
St. Vincent's have two men—Burson, quarter-back, and Kennedy half-back—^that 
•would
 grace any team in the country. And had it not been for the work of those two men St. Vincent's would have been in a bad 

•way.
 Burson is lightning-fast on his feet, a great open-field runner and put up a grand game in every -way. 



NOTRE DAME ST. VINCENT'S 
Burdick R. E. Quaile Lynch R. T. Donovan Paine R. G. Roche Mertes C. Selby Burke L. G. Klepic Donovan L. T. Hyjac Munson L. E. Galovan Ryan Q- B. Burson McDonald L. H. B. Kennedy Callicrate R. H. B. Obermeyer O'Leary F. B. Obermeyer 
SCHOLASTIC 
CULVER, 12; CORBY, 0. 
On Thanksgiving Day Corby. Hall was 
defeated 12-0 b3'' the Culver Military Acad­
emy team at Culver. The Corbyites were 
much in need of practice and team work, 
but made a good showing, considering the 
fact that the Culver followers expected a 
score of about 40-0. The Culver team was 
fast and had any number of sensational 
plays and passes. Several times the centre 
was ten or fifteen yards on either side of the 
team when the ball was put in play. These 
plaj^s kept the Corby team guessing for a 
short time in the first half when Culver 
scored two touchdowns in about ten 

minutes. They' worked the ball up to the 
five-3'ard line, pushing it' over on a line-
plunge. 
The second touchdown was made almost as quickly as the first, the ball being run all over the field on forward passes till it was near enough for some one to carry it over the goal line. 
After the second touchdown the tide 

turned. Corby kicked off to Culver who at 
once tried the much-used forward pass. The 
pass -^^as illegal, and Culver received the 
fifteen-3'-ard penalty. Culver punted and 
Corby' got the ball. Sclirader and Shafer 
then found the weak spots in the Culver 
line and made many gains. -The quarter­
back kick was used with success several 
times, Kenned3^ being on hand to fall on 
the ball. Both teams started the punting 
game, Shafer doing the booting for Corby. 
In the second half Corb3'^ kicked off to Culver and the ball -was returned twenty yards before being downed. Culver worked the ball to the centre of the field where a forward pass was tried. Stewart, the Corby left end, jumped in front of the Culver man and got the ball. For a minute it looked like a score for Corby, but in another minute Stewart and a Culver tackier were rolling on the ground. 
After that Culver never succeeded in making a forward pass. The ball would fall into Kennedy's or Stewart's hands or, be declared dead by the referee. Foley managed to ^tt through the line and break up several plays, thus keeping the score down. The game ended with the ball in Corby's possession in Culver's territory. 
BROWNSON, 0; RENSSELAER, 0. 
It was a splendid day and an unusually 

fine football game, spiritedly contested and 
with several brilliant plays and a pros­
pect almost any moment of either team 
winning. The football representatives of 
Brownson Hall and Rensselaer contended 
for supremacy that resulted in a tie. The 
two teams led by the Rensselaer Band were 
followed by about fourteen hundred rooters 
who made themselves heard throughout 
the contest. St. Joseph's College was right 
there in rooting for Notre Dame, and time 
and again there arose from the east side 
of the field the encouraging cry: "Hold 
them, Notre Dame." This gave Brownson 
the "pep" to stop the onslaught of their 
heavy opponents who had them outclassed 
in weight; but in the matter of team work, 
Brownson had the best of Rensselaer. 
Following the kick-off" in the first half by Rensselaer Brownson failed to advance the ball and was forced to punt. The kick was a poor one and this gave Rensselaer an excellent chance to score, for they secured the ball on our 30-yard line, but Smyth at centre broke through the line twice and caused the quarter-back to fumble each time; they were then tackled for a loss, and before they could recover, Brownson's speedy backs had worked the ball down to Rensselaer's 2-yard line. Here Brownson w^as held for downs. Dobbins of Rensselaer punted the ball well down the field. 
Brownson was held for downs on their 35-yard line, and thus gave Rensselaer another chance to score; but Morgan's drop kick was blocked and O'Leary's kick out of danger. The half ended with the ball in our possession in the centre of the field. In the second half the playing was prob­ably more spectacular than during the first, and when Fish from the centre of the field received a perfect forward pass, and carried the ball 45-yards, it looked like victory for Brownson. 
That Brownson was made up of the right material, and well versed in football theory was not only shown in this game but was brought to light to their many followers when they defeated Corby a few weeks ago, and thus succeeded in winning the Inter-Hall Championship. 
Personals. 

—^Last week the Misses Biggins, of Alton, 
111., visited their nephew Lucian Coppinger 
who is a student of Corby HaU. 
—Mr. T. Lowrey, who was a student at 
the University from '91 to '98, returned for 
a brief visit on November 23d. Mr. Lowrey 
is married and has a son whom he intends 
to send to Notre Dame in due time. At 
present he is engaged in the practice of 
law at Wheeling, West Virginia.. 
—Mr. Fred Strauss, commercial graduate of the class of '06, is pursuing a course of specialized chemistiy in the dye works at Philadelphia, after which he will return to Chicago where he will apply his knowl­edge in a practical way. His mother has control of the most extensive dye works in Chicago. 
—Mr. Joseph Falomir, a student in Brown­son Hall last year, has been making an extended tour through Europe accompanied by his parents. Among the notable per­sonages he was privileged to see were Pope Pius X., the President of France and kings of England, Denmark and Spain. Joe returned to Notre Dame last Thursday. 
—Mr. Halsey Boland, who was a student in Carroll Hall twenty years ago, visited the University early this week. He feels that the most peacefiil place he has ever known is Notre Dame, and fotmd the few hours he could spare from professional duties a most agreeable change. Mr. Boland is practising law in New York Ciiy. 
Card of Sympathy. 

The many friends of John K. Corbett, and the students of Corby Hall, desire to express their heartfelt sympathy to their friend and hall-mate, over the loss of his grandfather, Mr. John KHey, of Marion, Ind., who was recently called to his reward. Death was due to heart failure. George Kiley, a son of the deceased, was a former Notre Dame student. The SCHOIVASTIC on behalf of the University extends condolence to the bereaved family and friends. R. I. P. 
isfOTRE DAME 
Local -Items. 
—There will be no issue of the.SCHOLASTIC until'December "21, when the'STAPF will issue'a; special double number. • 
—^Found^^A pocljet-book; the owner may inquire a t the University librarj'-. : : ^Examinations will take place on Monday and Tuesday, December the 16th and 17th. 
77-Nptice—The person who borrowed yol-. umesix of the "World's Best Orations" will please confer with the "lender of the same. 
—^A number of arc lights have been installed in various parts of the campus and quad­rangle, filling, a .want that .has^ long been felt- >at the University. 
—Next Monday evening the students of Brownson, Hall will give .an entertainment t o the President and Faculty of the Univer­sity. The program will consist of musical and'-literarj'-- numbers: -" "-• ' , • 
•^Oh the first of the month-there was a game of football between the second.team, of St. Joseph's Hall and the Latin-Americans: result, 6 to 5 in favor of the formfer. Williams and Dominguez were the stars. " 
^^Thei University is = again indebted to the Hon. William J. .Onahan. of Chicago for a valuable gift. to ..the library., The work is entitled.,'.' The Discovery of Australia'' and the author is George Collingridge. It is a volume*of immense value to'students. • ' 
—^The Corby Hall po61-table has beeii re-covered with new cloth,: much to the delight of the lovers of the. cue. The,vigor with which the balls now rebound from cushion to Cushion is a sight' which has not been witnessed- on the table for tnany a-d^.^ ' '•-•-•• -• -^^ ' ''-•--••'• -• -• • 
—^The-Brownson Literary and- Debating Society ..lias purchased six. .of .Bishop Spald­ing's books for the use of its members. ..No meeting of the society was held on Thanks­giving Day or onJast.Thursday. At the next meeting the question for the inter-hall debate will be discussed. . ' ' " . "•.•'' 
—^The Corby basket-ball team defeated the South Bend Athletic Club, last Saturday evenirig by the^^* score of 21 to 19. Seven minutes; bveir. time; were - required: to decide the game .Next Monday the Mishawaka Athletic club will be played, and on ^Wednes­
day  the  Browiisori  Hair teanil  
'•^The Western  club, comprising  the  stu­ 
dents ^drri the Rocky Moiintaiti states  and­ 

\\^st?ttf 1:he^!R6ckies^ -was formed last Sunday e^senin^ .;The officers-elected are the folioWr.­ing: g^sidenti Coe McKenna; vice-presidentj T]^(eppp^e,,.Ca^yilie;, secretary, Ignatius Mc-. NaimTe^;^' Treasiirler, Frank' Walker. '[ _ ' 
'-^The "talk given by t)r. Mbnaghari to the 
SCHOLASTIC 
members ' of- the Engineering • Society on Wednesday evening, Nov. ^ 28th was well attended'. Dr. Monaghan took for" his sub­ject "Engineering and Economics," dwelling especially oh the opportunities that are to "• be .found; in the fieldoof engineering. ;•., .­
—Three members of the University Faculty took, prominent part in the Elks' Memorial Exercises which were held at the Oliver ,­Opera .House in South Bend last Sunday afternoon! Professor Peterseii had charge of the musical part of the program; Professor Farabaugh spoke- on the "Absent Ones," and.Professor Monaghan gave an address on."Charity,'', . . . , 
—^The law department has organized the.. Moot- Court for the present academic year, and has already begun handling cases in a practical vs^ay. Besides the Moot Court there is also a Court of Chancery, a - Court-of Justice, a Board of Arbitration, a .Supreme Court, a .United. States District Cojirt and, a United States Commissioner's.Court., The-., practical work which .the student, gets in these courts can. scarcely be overestimated. ^ 
.-^Last Sunday evening the first of the pre-.! liminary inter-hall contests in bratbry" was" held in Holy Cross Hall; There were seven speakers whose names, arranged in the order of, merit as.determined by the judges, are;, as, follows: A. Hebert, F. Wenninger and J. Ouinlan tie, T. Lahey, C. Miltner, A. Heiser, and J. Tbth. It has been deerned advisable not- to hold the final contest' between the halls as announced. But it is likely that such a contest will be. announced for next May. •. 
.-T-Next Thursday, 'evening, ,the: Philppa­trians.. will. give their annual reception to the University faculty in the parlor. The fact that'the Philopatrians have established' a high standard for such functions is-.a guarantee that .the.reception . will be a. source ,of, pleasure to all- who attend it. A .further, guarantee rests in the fact that the work of the society is under the direction of'Brother Cyprian. Thie members of the > Faculty are invited, without further notice, [~ to attend. The exercises begin at 7:30 p. m. ''\ 

—The.-final contest .for . the University. oratprica.1 honors.will be held, to-nighit in Washington Hall. Mr. J. Boyle will speak on "Christianity and the Worid's Peace." Mr.-V. Parish will have for his subject­"The Spirit of the Celt." Mr. R. Parker 5 has chosen to tell abput " Cardinal Richelieu, Exppnent bf Absolutism." Mr. W;. Xennartz will discourse oh " Amierica alnd the World's" Peace." The judges of the contest are-Father G. Thompson of Portland,'Oregoni.*~ Jerome J; Crowley,of-Chicago, Illinois,,and E^ ,r Honan,- of Rensselaer^ Indiana.. The decision, ... 
•will involve the "ppihipns of the judges'bii', manuscript and deliviety separately:' ' 






Dotrc Dame Scholastic 
DiscepvAs Di-sempeie-vicTvi^w s-\/|\/£-OVASl-CRA :3-iMOieiT\/ie\ys-
VOL. XLII . NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 5, 1908." No. 12. 
The Best In Indiana. 
RICHARD J. COLLENTINE, '09. 
AJR:—Mnrcliinii tltroiigli (ieorgin. 
pR.A.ISE our Gridiron Warriors! They're he'oes tried and true. May their victories e'er receive The laur'els, their just due. Let the-r names he on the scrolls Of dear old N. D. U., For the3''re the A^ery .best in Indiana. 

Hurrah I hurrah! trust them to win the day! Hurrah! hurrah! just see them plough their way! N<i Hoosier team could beat the boys no matter how 
th&y played, F.or they're the very best in Indiana. 
Sheldon's pupil's faced us first, Their downfall was complete, The "Little Giants" down the state, Were next to taste defeat. A.\\ other Hoosier challenges Our team found "easy meat," For they're the ver\' best in Indiana. 
Football History at Notre Dame. 
JOSEPH T. LAXTRY. 

N a November day in 1887, when the husky pigskin war­riors of Notre Dame were still in swaddlings, the Michigan University Football Team came to play the local Varsity. This was the first contest in which Notre Dame ever engaged. At that time the oval was just being introduced into the University. It was necessary for the men from Ann 
Arbor to play a preliminary game in order 
to show the local men the style of game. 
In this preliminary game the players formed 
two teams irrespective- of their colleges. 
This taste of real action which the hotiie 
men received, seemed to round them into 
shape, for they held Michigan to an 8-0 
score. That same year two games were 
played between these same colleges. Michi­
gan won both battles, though it is related 
that the referee won the second contest for 
the Ann Arbor men. 
The following year but one game was played. The Harvard school of Chicago was the opponent of our Varsity in a mediocre contest. In 1889 Notre Dame played. its first football game on a foreign field against Northwestern University at Evanston. Our boys'came home with a victonrand* man3' battered heads. Cartier, Coady and Prud­homme were the stars for the Hoosiers. In 1892 only one game was played, a tie with Hillsdale on Thanksgiving day. The punting of Quinlan averted a defeat for the Varsity. In 1893 football received a new impetus by the scheduling of more games. Notre Dame succeeded in w^inning" every contest. Every 
season since then the Varsity has had a heavy schedule. The real founder of football at Notre Dame was Frank E. Hering. The team that he built up in 1895 was the one that placed Notre Dame among the leaders in Western athletics. Our noted fighting spirit was born under his captaincy. Acting both as captain and coach he developed such players as Mullen, Farley, Eggeman and Harley. Upon his retirement he was succeeded as coach by McWeeney in 1899. This same true-blue McWeeney still helps to trim up winning teams to battle for the Gold and Blue. 
In 1900 a red-headed candidate reported to Coach O'Dea on Cartier Field. Not many days passed iDcfore the local critics began to take notice of his work on the scrubs. He was a demon at ploughing through the line, a fierce tackier and a consistent punter. In addition he had the one essen­tial of a great pla3^er, brains. The Ann Arbor game as well as the Beloit game elicited high cpmment upon his work. The following fall the reputation of Red Salmon spread throughout the football world. Every opponent feared and respected him. Against Yost's crack team at Toledo he carried the ball consistenly and per­sistently by short line-bucks from Notre Dame's five-yard line to Michigan's three-yard line. The account of every contest from that time to the end of his career is studded with the name of "the mighty Salmon." 
When Salmon's term was finished the glory of Notre Dame somewhat declined, due no doubt to the fact that the previous teams were built so closely around that column of strength. After two seasons during which the teams representing the college played fair football, Tom Barrj'- was selected as coach. His achievement needs no comment. Under his skilful direction Notre Dame soon reasserted herself in the list of Western rivals. This year's work under Place seems only to indicate the victories the future has in store for Alma Mater. 
But in the years to come w-hen the bon­fires will light up the Brownson campus and the echoes of triumph* make tbe old place tremble, and the men who are to come will celebrate their chamj)ionship victories over Michigan, W^isconsin .and Chicago, we trust that some of the old-timers at least may recall the memory of the earlier heroes, of a Hering, a Farley, a McWeeney and a Salmon, the men who first set the example of N. D; prowess, and whose interest is still vested in the perpetuation of the honor and success of the Gold and Blue, 
Athletic, sports, if followed properly, and not elevated into a fetich, are admirable for developing character, besides bestowing upon the participants an invaluable, fund of health and strength. 
Theodore Roosevelt. 
North American Review,. August, '90. 
A Pleasant Race. 
GEORGE J. FIXNIGAX, '10. 
It w-as to be a peculiar race—at least 

that's what Frances Burton, better known 
among her friends at Saranac, as Frank,, 
thought about it; and so did Ed Rivers, as, 
seated in his cottage at Mountain View 
resort thirty-five miles away, he read an 
account of it in the evening pa,per. 
Frank Burton was a most attractive young Miss from New York. She alwaj^s spent the summer at Saranac, because she liked the mountains. Her charming manner had won her manj^ admirers. She was full of life and spirit and passionatelj'- fond of out­door sports. Her delight was in rowing and tennis, but especially in golf, and it is with Miss Burton's succes in golf that we are concerned. 
The Golf Club of Tuppei* Lake had oifered a prize of five hundred dollars to the person holding the best golf record for the 190S season in the northern part of the state. Frank Burton held the record, at least so the papers had stated, and as the season was ending she was expecting at any moment to receive from the golf club the announcement of her victory. And now, 
just two daj'^s before she was to leave for home, the Whippleville Journal announced that a certain Edw^ard Rivers of Alountain View had equalled her record, and that the tie was to be settled by the peculiar race of which I speak. 
Ed Rivers was undoubtedly the best golfer at Mountain View, and although it was his first season at this fashionable resort he had made many friends. Tall, muscular and . good looking, and possessing a rare good humor, he w^as w^elcomed everywhere. All at Mountain View rejoiced with him in his new victory, for he had tied the record of Frank Burton of Saranac, who, the papers declared, was a splendid golfer. 
As Ed read the evening paper, and wondered w^ho Frank Burton could be, he laughed heartily, for the proposed race was certainly a strange one. It was this: As the season was over and the tie could not be played off, it had been suggested that the money be divided. But the eccentric Presi­
dent of the golf-club would not have it that 
way, and he had stated to the papers and 
by official letter to Frank Burton of Saranac 
and Ed Rivers, Mountain View, that the prize 
would be given to the first one of these two 
winners who should call at the Tupper Lake 
office on the following day, both to leave 
Mountain View at nine o'clock a. m.,.the 
time at which the train from Saranac to 
Tupper Lake passed through Mountain 
View. 
Ed was determined to win at any cost. 

As the road from Mountain View to Tupper 
Lake was all up grade, and the trains con­
sequently'- slow, he determined to make the 
trip in his touring car. Moreover, he did 
not care to board the train and meet his 
rival; they would meet soon enough. He 
would go to the station and start in his 
car at the same time the train started. 
At eight o'clock on the following morning 

a gay crowd of young people assembled 
at the Saranac Station to see Frank offi 
Dressed in a blue sailor suit, she looked 
more attractive than ever. The excitement 
of the race added new charms to her feat­
ures. Her cheeks were flushed and her black 
eyes flashed forth determination to win, 
although as yet she did not know how she 
was to accomplish it. She stood in the 
•centre of the crowd, the young ladies all . wishing her success, the young men declaring that if Ed Rivers, whoever he might be, had any heart at all, he woiild lose it and the prize too. She.boarded the train amidst much cheering and was soon off on the race. 
Frank looked forward eagerly to her meeting with Ed Rivers; she wondered what kind of a fellow he might be, and several very worthy images coursed through her' mind. She hoped he would be tall and handsome, for there would be greater fun in beating such a one. He might, however, be a very ordinary man; but she banished this image immediately as unworthy of her rival. She was determined to win no matter what kind of man he might be. 
When at last the train pulled in at Mountain View, Frank, eager to see her rival, took a seat near the back, of the train to watch the passengers as they entered. The first one that mounted the steps was Ed Rivers. He had looked in to catch a glimpse of his rival. He glanced ­
around until his gaze fell on a thin, middle-aged man, just across from Frank. Yes, he thought, that fellow must be Frank Burton. Ed would show him what it meant to win. He was about to leave the car w^hen his eyes were caught by a pair of eager eyes and a blue sailor suit, and he gazed enraptured. He had never seen anything 'quite so beautiful. The black curls and flushed cheeks made him unconscious of all else, until he realized that he was staring at a young lady, and then with a quick 
turn he left^ the train. 
When Frank first saw Rivers in the car 
door, her heart gave a bound of satisfaction. 
That must be Rivers. He was just what 
she wanted him to be; but why did he stop 
and look so. Oh, he was getting off .again. 
It wasn't Rivers. The onlj'- other man that 
got on the car was a fat, clean-shaven fellow, 
and Frank concluding that this must be 
Rivers, turned towards the window with a 
look of disappointment. 
The train had just started when she noticed a big touring car moving from the station. A young man was driving it. It was the one who had come to the car door. He was looking towards' the car and as he saw Frank he took off his cap and waved it. Frank did not know what to do, but she soon decided, and as the train sped around a curve, Ed saw a white handkerchief waving in response. 
"I'll probably never see him• again," she said to herself, "and any waj--he's nicer than my rival," and she glanced towards the fat, clean-shaven fellow, who was now fast asleep. . 
Ed;had surely been rather captivated by 
•the black eyes and curls, and he frankly admitted'it to himself. So thoroughly had he been attracted that he determined to catch another glimpse of this unknown young lady at Fulton, the only stop between Mountain View and Tupper Lake. He could meet the train there, and then easily beat it out. After three-quarters of an hour, during which he had been conscious of but one thought, and that of black curls and ablue suit, he reached Fulton before the train and pulled up at the station. 
When the train came in his heart beat fast and.he w^atched the door eagerly for the figure in blue. At last she came, • but 
196 NOTRE DAME 
instead of a smile she wore a look of 
annoyance. Rivers immediateh'- guessed the 
reason. The train, the conductor said, would 
remain at Fulton for an hour to await 
another train which was late. 
Frank walked up the platform, thinking 
it better to be out-of-doors than in a stuffy 
car, and came suddenlj!^ upon Ed. She was 
somewhat surprised, for she had seen him 
back at Mountain View not long before, 
and he had occupied her thought somewhat 
ever since. In her astonishment she said 
unconsciously: 
"How did you get here so soon?" then 
recollecting herself she added "pardon me." 
Her voice was sweet and full. 
" I drove down, answered Ed laughing. 
" I see your train is to remain here an hour." 
"Yes," answered Frank, her fa; e looking 
annoyed, "it's horrid to have to wait. 
How far is it to Tupper Lake?" 
Ed's heart gave a bound. Perhaps she would—but he did not even dare hope for it. "Tupper Lake is fifteen miles." 
"If it weren't so far," said Frank smiling, but determined, "I'd walk." 
"I would be very happy if—" 
"If what?" looking at him with wide-open eyes. "If you'd let me take you over in my car," he blurted. She did not get angry. Instead she smiled and said, "Are you going that far?" "Yes," he declared, "and my machine is at your service." 
Frank did not dislike the idea of a good ride with a good-looking gentleman, but she hesitated. Glancing toward the train she saw her fat, clean-shaven rival sound asleep in the window^. Here was her chance. She would surely win out, and after all why not? 
Turning towards Rivers she said, "I'll go with you." 
Ed could not believe his ears for a while, but w^hen they were spinning over the country road, and neither the blue suit nor curls had vanished he congratulated himself as the luckiest man in the state. He felt, too, that the golf prize was now easily his, for -he had left his rival far behind. All at once the vision at his side spoke: 
"Isn't this a strange thing that we're doing? Neither of us knows the other," said Frank, a little ashamed. 


SCHOLASTIC 
"But," answered Ed, wishing they did 
know each other better, "necessity knows 
no law, and you couldn't think of waiting 
there an hour." 
"It's awful nice of you to excuse me that 
way. Isn't it a glorious daj'-?" 
"I have never known a nicer one." 
"This car of yours is superb." 
"I'm glad you like it." 
In a few minutes they were chatting gaily. 
They talked of the summer resorts, of 
society and of their love for golf—each in his 
modesty neglecting to tell of his expected 
prize. Indeed it seemed but a few moments to 
Ed and to Frank too, before they were in 
the heart of the town of Tupper Lake near 
the Golf-Club Office. 
"I'm sorry our ride is about over," dared 
Rivers. He was, however, taken back at 
her response. 
"So am I. I have enjoyed it immensely. You may leave me off at this club-house." He drew up and helped her to alight. "I think I can find ra3'' way now," she said, "I don't know how to thank you. Good-bye." 
Ed longed to say much more, but he only said: "Good-bye, the pleasure you have given me has more than repaid." 
Rivers watched Miss Burton as she left him, but to his surprise she entered the Golf Club and ascended the stairs. What could she be doing there? After leaving his car in a safe place, he entered the building just in time to catch a.glimpse of the girl as she entered the President's office at the other end of the corridor. This was strange. "Perhaps she is a relative of the President," thought Rivers. At any rate, he would get to see her again, and then she would be glad to learn that he had w^on the golf prize. He w^alked towards the door with a light heart and opened it, but was taken back by what he heard. 
In the centre of the room stood the Presi­dent of the Golf Club and the young lady in the blue suit. Her eyes were glowing and her cheeks flushed with pride. As Rivers stepped in he heard the President say: 
"You have my heartiest congratulations. Miss Burton; the prize is yours." He looked up and saw Rivers standing dumfounded. 
"Well! so you are beaten, Mr. Rivers. Let me introduce to you Miss Burton." "Miss Burton! Frank's sister?" asked Rivers excitedly. 

"Not Frank's sister, but Frank herself. Miss Burton, this is Mr. Rivers. Well, what's the matter with you people?" Frank and Ed were staring at each other, unable to believe their senses. Then both began to laugh, and they laughed long and heartih'. Frank was the first to speak. 
"If this gentleman is really Mr. Rivers," she said to the President, "the prize is his because he brought me here." 
"No," answered the President, "the prize is yours, no matter how you came. You have won the race." 
"I quite agree with the President,'" said Rivers smiling, "allow me to congratulate you, Miss Frank Burton." 
• "Thank you," said Frank, extending her hand and looking admiringly towards him, "but let us at least divide the prize." 
"No, no," insisted Rivers, "the prize' is yours. All I ask as pay for the ride that I have given you is that you will return to Sara"nac in my car." 
The rivals took dinner with the President of the club and returned in company. 
The New Game. 
MICHAEL L . MORIARTY, '10. , 
^ITH the close of the football 
season of 1908, comes the an­
nual comment upon the great 
college game. At no previous 
'''» time have such rapid strides 

been made along the lines of the much-sought open play. As a result the game has never before been so much cher­ished by its college devotees and by the great mass of. the public as well. In 1903 we no longer think of the tandem play, tackle back and other line-smashing formations of the olden days. To talk football now we must deal with some novel features: the so-called open play, the onside-kick, which has decided so many close contests, and most of all, with the innovation which has revolutionized foot­ball—the forward pass. 
No material alteration of the rules has been made, except in so far as a man touching a legal forward pass is the only man of his side elegible to recover the ball until it has touched one of the opposing players or has been touched by one of them. The provision adds somewhat to the uncertainty of the play, but has had no very great effect on the manipulation, of the pass. The provision increasing the number of officials to four—a field judge assuming some of the duties of both the referee and the umpire—marks one more advance towards the assurance of clean play. Standing well back of the defensive team the field judge is well fitted to rule on questions concerning the legality of forward-pass work, the conditions attending the attempt for free catches, out-of-bounds plays and also rough work by men coming down the field. With four officials pledged for sportsmanlike play, it would seem that any tendency towards unnecessary roughness will not be long tolerated- The few other changes in the rules deal more with" the wording and explanation of the old rules than with any wide digression from the 
1907 style of play. 
Among the numerous lessons suggested during the season just completed one in particular stands out most conspicuously. The victories achieved by hitherto unheard-of schools, playing light and fast teams-against heavier opponents teaches condu­sivelv that the coaches can no longer afford to seek brawn and weight as a foundation for a successful football machine. Speed and headwork now hold the balance of power. To men possessing these faculties developed to stand the test can be attributed the many startling scores registered by the smaller and less-famed schools against the ' large and world-famed universities. 
Fleetness of foot and ability to grasp immediately and solve .unconsciously the most complex situations, are now the capital considerations. On the men thus skilled falls the task of developing further the modem game. The clever, clear-headed strategist is the man invariably selected by the suc­cessful coaches around whom to construct his style of open attack. 
Another point brought out during the season's work is the apparently excessive value attached to drop-kicks and field goals. It is universally conceded that supe­riority in this department should not be discredited, still the number of teams' which 
have actually outplayed their rivals at every turn, onlv- to be worsted hj one or several clever goals from the field, or hj a couple of well-executed drop-kicks should be taken into consideration. During the two years past w-e have listened to considerable dis­cussion as to the advisability of reducing the value of the drop-kick and field goal from the present count of four points.down to two points. The customary four points given for this style of play certainly tends to belittle the value of a touchdown and the goal foliow^ing same. Unquestionably the hard-earned touchdown deserves more than the mere marginal value of one point over goal negotiated from the thirty or perhaps the forty or forty-five-yard line. The Committee on General Rules will, no doubt, take up the question. Meanwhile a great man3'- devoted followers of the game will yearn for a change in the count for kicking. 
Offensive play during the 1908 season 
showed a marked improvement over the 
work of the preceding year. At any moment 
spectators were always on the alert lest 
they would miss some new punt-formation, 
or some perplexing formation from w^hich 
a forward pass could be hurled in almost 
any direction down the field. The knack of 
hurling the ball, acquired by a host of the 
season's stars, will cause considerable atten­
tion to be directed towards securing a 
suitable mode of defense. 
In another 3'^ear, or perhaps tw^o, the ball 
w^ill be directed wdth the accuracy common 
to high-class baseball work. Then will the 
resources of the football coaches be taxed 
in order to prevent the most weird and 
unexpected plays. The provision requiring 
the ball to cross the line of scrimmage at 
least five yards on either side of the point 
w^here the ball is put in play, presented 
opportunities for the countless fake plays 
and passes which proved so popular and 
practical. The spread formation and back-
shift w^hich sent the back-field men into 
the line at the far right or left of the actual 
vicinily of the play seemed to present grave 
difficulties for the; opposing defense. 
Another feature, probably not so startling, 
yet equally effective, if developed, w^e find in 'the onside trick. Capable of being executed from any formation, the .most -[ efficientl 



SCHOLASTIC 
defense finds the onside kick-one of the most difficult plays to handle and certainly the most aw^kward. The mere crossing of the line of scrimmage entitles the offensive team to first down, provided, of course, they recover the ball. As with the hurlers of the forward pass, the men skilled in kicking the the low, onward, bounding onside - kick have developed with almost lightning-fast rapidity. The forward-pass and onside-kick present difficulties which can scarcely be over-estimated. The possibilities of the two plays have been merely touched upon since their introduction a few years ago. Many startling developments are promised during the coming year, for truly it can be said the present-day offense is in its infancy. Alreadj^" the followers of the game are looking for­ward with eager anticipation to the possible display of visible football, which undoubt­edly will end the discussion as to the advis­ability of following the very few who are making a determined fight for the abolition of the great fall sport. 
With the offense capable of reaching such a point of perfection, a feasible method of bolstering up the defense must be resolved upon. During the past season, the coaches have failed to develop a defense suitable for checking the onslaughts made possible by the new style of play. The uncertainty which has thus far' characterized the use of the forward pass seems to have been the best defense. With this uncertainty elimi­nated as, in all events it w^ill be, wc can readily apprehend the position assumed by many that the defense is doomed to fall far behind the attack. What possible defense will not find an attack composed of forward passes, numerous line plunges, interspersed with several onside-kicks and fancy punt-formations, a most disconcerting problem to face? No plausible formation has yet been advanced which can safeguard a team against such plays. Perhaps the best defense available will be for tackles and guards to play wide ends rather close to the tackle and to play a smashing game with secondary line of defense consisting of the two half-backs playing about ten or fifteen yards back of the scrimmage line and wide enough to detect, any attempt at onside-kick or forward pass. This system 
eaves one man to back up the line in the centre and another to play back for kicks. 

The season of 1908 has come and gone. With it has come the vindication of those who maintained for the new rules that they would open up the play, make the game more enjoyable from the spectators' view-point, and, result -in fewer injuries to the players. With it has gone the careers of a host of fine plaj^ers who will be remembered as the stars of their day. The game itself has verified all predictions and dispelled all doubt as to its superiority over the old-stjde play. Another year with versatile coaches of the past season will see many of the possibilities of the new play exhausted. One thing is certain, the new game is here to stay. The lovers of good, clean college sport bid it welcome. 
Varsity Coaches. 

Coach Place came to Notre Dame with the reputation of being a great coach and he left with that reputation strengthened and enhanced. Compelled by injuries and other circumstances to develop practically two teams he worked his material to the best advantage, and the results achieved testif3'' how well he succeeded. For the 
VICTOR PLACE (Coach). 
JOSEPH T. LANTRY (Assistant Coach). 

second time since Notre Dame assumed prominence on the western gridiron its goal-line remained uncrossed until the end of the season, and much of the credit must go to Coach Place. Although a star at Dartmouth under the old game, he acquired a thorough knowledge of the new style of play and blended both with remarkable success. - He did not teach his men a bewildering variety of plays, but in those used he built up a concentrated offense that was irresistible, and a defense that proved impregnable before the fiercest on­slaughts of the enemy. It is no exaggeration to say that, with perhaps one exception, Notre Dame this year had the strongest defensive team in its history, and certainly the best all-around team since the introduc­tion of the new style of play. It is true that the material was the best in years, but the necessity of constant shifts in the team presented many difficulties which added to the troubles of the coach, but he met every obstacle as it arose and successfully surmounted it. "Pull together" is probably the phrase best describing his method of coaching. He had every man in every play, and always with the ball, and, 
it was this co-operative st3^1e of plaj that won such laurels for the Gold and Blue. Above all he taught the men to pla}'-a clean game, and let it be said to their credit that his instructions in that line 
were faithfulW carried out to the end. 
Coach Place was abh^ assisted in building up the Varsity machine b3' Joe Lantry, the former st;a- of Ohio State. His general knowledge of football, csjjecially in the back­field department, proved a valuable asset to the team, and was no small factor in the season's victories. Like Place he won his spurs under the old game, but quickh^ mastered the new, and many a helpful sug­gestion was the result. He had charge of the scrubs the entire season, and the man\^ hard tussles they gave the Yarsit}- and the number of men who finally won berths on the regulars speak well for his abilitA'. In addition to his wide knowledge of the game he possessed the confidence of the men, and had the faculty of communicating his own enthusiasm and spirit to those under hinj, wdiich is one of the prime requisites of a successful coach. He achieved results, and for that he is well entitled to share in the laurels won on the gridiron this 3'ear. 
Varsity J908. 
CAPT. MILLER (Half-Back). 
Aliller proved a w^orthy successor of Calli-crate, not only as captain but as a valuable man in the backfield where he appeared most of the season. He put up a- star game at centre in the Michigan game, ' but was shifted to his old position at .left-half in the remaining contests, and continued to display the form that won him a place on the All-Indiana team last 3'ear. He was seen at his best in the Indiana game, his thrilling end-runs and all-around ' work bringing frequent rounds of applause "from the stands, and this despite the fact that he was frequentl3'' laid out with injuries. He also did the bulk of the punting, and his kicks were alwa3'S consistent and for good distance. His toe work against the wind in the first half of the Marquette game piit our goal out of danger tirne after time, and pre­vented the Wisconsinites from scoring. His brilliant playing again won him a berth on the All-Indiana team. . . 
SA:\I DOLAN (Tackle Guard). 
In the athletic number of last year it was predicted that Dolan with his crippled knee in shape would make one of the best linemen in the state this 3'ear, and anyone who has seen the Oregonian tear up the opposing line during the past season will readih' agree that the prophec3'- has been amply fulfilled. He hit his old time stride again, and without deti'acting from the merits of the other men it must be admitted that when it came to brilliant and consistent pla3nng he had a shade on them all. His work in the Michigan and Indiana games was little short of phe­nomenal, and in the other contests his pla3'­

fng ahva3^swas a feature. On offense he could be depended upon to open up a hole when it was needed, and he absoluteh'^ refused to let an3'thing get b3^ him when playing on the defense, often crashing through the opposing line and breaking up a pla3'- before it was started. He was .the unanimous choice of the critics for tackle on the All-Indiana team. 
DONALD HAMILTOX (Quarter). 
In Hamilton the Varsity had one of the fastest arid cleverest quarter-backs that ever called numbers for the Gold and Blue. Not onl3'- did he displa3'' good judgment in. guiding the team, but his work in running back punts and circling the ends on quarter­back runs was one of the sensational features of the year. In the Michigan game he handled punts in grand style, and b3'­phenomenal dodging ran'them back so as to almost offset the Wolverine's gain. He did not get into the Indiana game owing to the freshman rule, but clinched the State Championship for the Varsit3'' by scoring all the points against Wabash on two place kicks from the field. He was laid up the last two weeks of the season, with a badly-bruised hip, but was compelled to go into the Marquette game after the first three minutes of play when Dwyer was forced to retire by injuries, and despite his condition played a magnificent game. It was, his first 3^ear on the team and he is expected to return. 
HOWARD EDW^ARDS (Tackle, Fullback, Guard). 
Edwards was the utilit3'- man of the squad, and to summarize things he made good wherever placed. He started the season at tackle, but was shifted behind the line 


NOTRE DAME 
after the Michigan game to take Vaughan's place at full against Indiana. He play^ed a star game against the Wolverines until laid out with injuries, his defensive w-ork being especially strong. In the clash with the Sheldonites he hit the line.for. consistent gains, and did some effective smashing of interference at end where he played on defense. In the final games he worked at guard, and added great strength to the middle of the line. It was his first year on the team. He is a faithful trainer and a hard worker, and it was these qualities that won him the captaincy for next year. 
ROBERT YAUGHAN (EuUfEack). Not since the days of -Salmon has the Varsity had a man who ;iri all-airound ability^ could measure up to 'Yaughan. Not only has he the requisite- weight, but. is exceptionally fast and equally strong in either the new or old style' of game. His terrific line plunges, remindful only of the mighty Salmon, were irresistible, and his" remarkable skill in handling- the forward pass yielded many a long gain to the Gold and Blue. He scored the only touchdow^n, ever registered by the Yarsity against Michigan by making thirty-five yards on a spectacular line play off tackle. His best exhibition of line bucking, how^ever, w^as probably seen in the Wabash, game in which he rammed through for substantial gains, many times almost alone^.-owing to the , crippled condition of our backs. He was again the "man behind" in. the Marquette game, his plunge through centre for thirty-yards, when the ball^was on our goal-line, being one of the stellar stunts of the day. He is a hard, clean, and heady player, and will undoubtedly be ranked as oiiis of the best full-backs in the West. He is another 
first-year  man, and  will  return.  
-^LuKE  KELLY'(Tackle).  
Kelly  was  the  "find"  of  the  year.  He  

went out for the backfield, but was soon shifted to tackle, and made good from the start. He showed steady improvement as the season progressed, and developed into one of the most valuable men on the line. Not only w^as he strong in tipping over the plays directed against him, but his speed and shiftiness made him equally formidable on the offensive, and he was 


SCHOLASTIC 
always among first down the field on punts, often tackling the runner in his tracks. He alway^s gave the best that was in him, never sayiiig a word,.but on the job from the kick-off. He was with the ball at all times, and his w^atchfulness was rewarded by recovering more fumbles than any other man on the. squad. Next year he s^hould prove to be one of the best linemen in the state. 
ALBERT MERTES (Centre). 
Mertes was the lightest man on the line, but had no difficulty in holding his own against every man he met this year. His work in the Indiana game w^as a big factor in the result, and his accurate passing contributed materially to the success of Miller's punting. Although not spectacular his playing is of the steady, consistent kind that wins games, and his rare judgment in passing often.saved us penalties for offside. He is a strong, defen­sive player, a- hard worker and faithful trainer, and it is these qualities that make him one of the most valuable men on the squad. 
PETER DWYER (Half-Back, Quarterback). 
At the start of the season Dwyer worked at,half, but w^hen Coach Place was casting about for a man to take Hamilton's place at quarter, in the state games he hit upon Dwyer, and the masterful manner in which Peter handled the signals proved that he had made no mistake. Probably no man on the squad had a more thorough knowledge of the game, or played it harder. At half­back he shone by his brilliant defensive work, his, tackling being one of the stellar features in nearly every game in which he participated; and-his value at quarter rested upon the fact that he knew what to do and did it at the right time. He never saved himself, but was in every, play, and it was ithis fearlessness that is accountable for his many injuries during the year. This was his. first year on the team, and he is expected back. 
PAUL MCDONALD (Half-Back)'. 
Last year McDonald won^ the Thanks­giving Day gatae against St. Yincent's by his brilliant work in the second half, and he turned the trick again this year in the Marquette game. In fact, his work all year has been sensational, his flashy end runs being in evidence in every game. In the Michigan contest he clipped off an eighty-five-yard run for a touchdown, but w^as called back as it was claimed he stepped out of bounds. He was not in his.best form in the Wabash game owing to injuries, but chalked up several long gains. He is unques­tionably one of the fastest offensive backs that Notre Dame has ever had, and his work has been a big factor in the success of the past season. 

THOIMAS SULLIVAN (Centre).' .--^ •" •• 

"Big Tom" after a bad start rounded into form and played a star game at the pivot point. He tried out first at guard arid tackle, but was shifted to centre, and the' wisdom of the change was soon apparent. His weight added great strength to the middle of the line, and his passing was of the accurate kind that makes good punting possible. He did not get into the Indiana game owing to the freshman rule, but proved his mettle in the clash with Wabash. He had his shoulder dislocated in practice two w^eeks before the end of the season, and was unable to get into the fray Thanks­giving. As this was his initial appearance at centre still greater things may be expected of him next year. 
LEE MATTHEWS (End). 

Like 'Sullivan, Matthews did not hit his gait at the beginning of the year, but after he got going he more than held his own against all comers. His first big game was against Michigan, and his work in the second half struck woe into the ranks of the Wolverines. He was not at his best against Wabash, but returned to form in the Marquette game, and put up a star exhibition. He had the faculty of sifting through the interference and downing the runner, oftentimes for a loss. His tackling was hard and sure, and his speed enabled him to get down the field on punts and throw' the runner without a return. He, handled the forward pass with skill, and was a clever player from every viewpoint. 
: RuEL (Half-Back). 

This star of the diamond made his debut on the gridiron this year, and showed excep­
tional class from the start. In three big games of the year, Michigan, Indiana, and Marquette, his work might well be styled phenomenal, for his dazzling return of punts and spectacular tackling were outstanding features of all three contests. He suffered a reversal of form at Wabash, but this was dtie to a w^renched arm which necessitated his playing the game with the member encased in a leather brace. He has all the requisites for a half-back, build, weight and speed, plays a hard game every minute, and promises to become one of the best men in the West. He w^as unanimously chosen by the critics for the All-Indiana team. 
RALPH DEVOHCK (Tackle). 

Dimmick was another first-year man, and when it is said that he and Dolan v^rorked together on the right side of the line our uncrossed goal-line is partially explained. He put up a brilliant game both on offense and defense, and gained many yards on his tackle around plays. He was always there to help along the man with the ball, and could open up a life-sized gap when the play was directed his way. His playing at the end of the season was somewhat affected by injuries, but his work in the Michigan and Wabash games stamped him as one of the most dependable linemen in the state. He will be back next year. 
JOSEPH COLLINS (End) When Coach Place shifted CoUins from the back-field to end he picked the right man for the right place. His early-season form was somewhat of a disappointment, but when he was given a chance to make good in the Wabash game he responded with a ven­geance. His tackling and all-around work proved to be one of the biggest obstacles to the goalward progress of the "Little Giants," and his showing in handling the forward pass resulted in many of the Varsity's gains. He again starred in the Marquette game, his tackling often resulting in losses for the Wisconsinites. He is husky and fast and ought to develop into a top­notcher next year. 
GEORGE PHILBROOE: (Guard). 

Philbrook did not report until late in the season but when he got his two hundred 


304 NOTRE DAME 
pounds of beef in action he had little diffi­culty in landing a berth at guard. He smothered every attempt to gain through his territory, and on offense could always be depended upon to bore out a hole for the backs to plunge through. In addition to his value as a lineman he also displayed remarkable punting ability in which depart­ment big things are expected from him next year. He never saj'S a word on the field but keeps on the job every minute, and will be one of the mainstays of the line in '09. 

JAMES MALONEY (End). When Maloney w^ent out there apparently was but little chance of his landing a place against his husky competitors, but it was not long before his speed and ability won him a berth on the regulars. He was the lightest man on the squad, notching the beam at 135, but he used every ounce of it to the best advantage. His work in receiving forward passes in the Indiana game was one of the prettiest exhibitions of the year. He w^as especially strong on offense, and rarely failed to block his man. On defense he played back for punts, usually running the kicks back for good distances. Taken all in all he was one of the biggest little men that ever fought for the Gold and Blue. 
EDWARD LYNCH (Guard). 

Lynch w^as shifted from tackle to guard this year, and filled the position to a nicety. He was not in the best of condition, however, owing to an injury to his eyes but his play­ing was marked by the same aggressiveness 'and determination that characterized his work last year. His playing is not sensa­tional, but of the plugging, consistent kind that contributes so materially to the scoring value of a team. He was particularly strong on defense, and w^hen he charged on offense he generally opened up a gap for the man with the ball. It was his second year on the team. 
JOHN DUFFY^ (Guard). Duflfy came along fast from the start and by steady plugging earned a berth on the regulars. His work on the scrubs last year gave promise of better things this season, and he certainly measured up to the mark. His best work was. done in the Indiana game in which his strong defensive playing 

SCHOLASTIC 
helped out the middle of the line consider­ably. He was a hard and willing worker, always gave the best that was in him, and with the experience gained this y^ear ought to have no trouble in retaining his position next season. 
FAY WOOD (End). 

"Woody" placed a star game up to the time he was compelled t(j quit the squad because of a .severe injury to his knee. He pla3'ed all through the Michigan and Indiana games, and was conspicuous b}* his brilliant defensive work. In breaking inter­ference .he was probably the peer of au}-^ man on the squad, and it was his work in this department that v rought such havoc with oiir opponent's formations. He handled the forward-pass with success, and on the offensive he always disposed of his man in good shape. It was his second A^ear. 
"Bob" Paine was out the first half of the season but retired after the Indianji game to devote more time to his studies. He got in both the Michigan and Indiana games, playing a star game at guard, and would undoubtedly have been awarded a monogram had he remained out the rest of the season. 
Burdick showed his old-time form at the start, but received a severe injury to his ankle in the Michigan game, and never rounded into shape thereafter. 
"Bill" Schmitt improved at half-back with every practice, and his work in the last half of the Marquette game was ample proof of his speed and ability. He looks like a Varsity fixture next year. 
Daniels did not report until late in the season, but his speed won him a place on the regulars and he v» ould probabl3'^ have been in at the kick-off Thanksgiving had he not been called home by an accident to his brother. He also seems slated for a berth next y^ear. 
Cripe was again pursued by hard luck this year, and had his ankle broken in a scrimmage early in the year, which kept him out all season. Up to the time of his misfortune he was displaying a speed and knowledge of the back-field position tha.t would undoubtedly have won him a place in the regular line-up. 
Champions of, the State. 
H0I3' smokes! It's great For N. D. To be Champion <>f the State. Indi mas wondrous team, That down-state dream. We smashed And slashed 
'And fought Eleven to naught. Eight to four Was the score When we made ti-at dash For Wabash. And then Miller's men 
Scared Michigan so-bad That they were glad To be let down easy. Cheesy, Isn't it to talk this way, and yet You can bet Marquette Got hers, by hen When She didn't expect it A bit. Her hope, . ' . So says the dope. Was sky-High. Hard luck! Well so-long Here's a little song. Holv smokes! It's great . » For N. D. . To be - ,;• Champion of the State.. . G. J. FINNIGAN. 
Track. 
Notre Dame, after a slump of four years hit her stride in track again last year under the direction of Coach Maris, and present indications point to a continuation of the good work this season inasmuch as Mr. Maris will again be with us, ­
Among the men who will be missed this year are ex-Captain Keach, Scales, Murphy, Roach, Shea, and Allen. "Bill" Schmitt will captain the team, arid the following old men are expected to report: Schmitt, hurdles and quarter-mile; Moriarty, hurdles. and pole vault; Dana, mile and two mile;. O'Leary, 100 yard and 200 yard; Maloney, dashes; Daniels, dashes and jumps; Mc-

CoACH MARIS. Donald, relay; Arnold, quarter-mile; Mc-Donough, jumps; Roth, broad jump; Miller, jumps; Wood, weights; Devine, half mile; Graham, SchoU and Brady, distance runs. With such men on hand as Wasson, Fletcher, Steers, Ben Oliel, Vaughan, Sullivan, Phil-brook, and Dimriiick the outlook is consider­
ably brightened.  ...  
Manager  Wood  is  negotiating  for  dual  
meets  with  Michigan,  Illinois,  Indiana,  

Wabash, and M. A. C, and expects to have the best card in years. The Michigan and Wabash ideets will be held indoors, while Illinois and Indiana will compete outside. The place of holding the State Meet, which w^as slated for Notre Dame last year but fell through, has not yet been settled upon. 
Cross country work has also been given much attention this year, and Coach Maris turned out a creditable team. The season was closed Nov. 21st when a triangular meet was held with M. A. C, De Pauw and Notre Dame as entries. Tillison of the " Aggies" picked off the first honors, covering the distance in tw^enty-nine minutes and twelve seconds, w^hich is exceptionally fast time for the course of five and a half miles. Steers and Graham showed the best form for the Varsity, finishing second and third respec­tively. De Pauw had two entries, but could land nothing better than 4th place. J. B. K. 
2o6 NOTRE DAME 
The Management. 

When the facult3'- board was casting about for a successor to Manager McGannon they decided wisely in selecting a man with the w^ide athletic experience and executive ability of Harry Curtis. He has starred on both 
MANAGER CURTIS. 

the diamond and gridiron and knows college athletics from every angle. It was largely due to his coaching, last j'^ear that the base­ball team was able not only to trim the best in the West, but also to take the measure of the strongest nines in the East, establishing a record never before equalled by a Western athletic team. 
At the beginning of the year, Manager Curtis w^as confronted with a trying situa­tion due to the fact that only one game that with Michigan, had been secured on the football schedule. He immediately set to work, and when it is taken into considera­tion that four big games were listed he is deserving of much credit. Every effort was made to improve the schedule of home games, but proved unsuccessful, owing to the late start in the negotiations. This defect will be remedied next year, however, as Manager Curtis is already at work on the schedule, and is negotiating with Michigan, Indiana, 

SCHOLASTIC 

Lawrence, Wabash, and Michigan "Aggies," the last two games to be played on Cartier Field. A game with Syracuse at Buffalo is also among the possibilities. 
The baseball schedule is well under way, and if present plans materialize it should prove the best western card'in" j-^ears. Four games have already been secured with Michigan, and in addition to the regular state contests a western trip is under con­sideration on which Northvvestern, Wiscon­sin, Minnesota, Nebraska, and Illinois will be met. 
The new manager is under contract with the New York Giants with whom he signed at the end of the '06 season of the Varsity, and it is possible that he may join the team at the close of the school year. He is a graduate of the Law school in the class of '08. 
Fay Wood, the gridiron and basket-ball star, is acting as assistant manager, and fills the part to a nicety. He has sole charge of the track and basket-ball departments, and is preparing schedules of unusual merit. The principal features of the basket-ball slate will be Eastern and Southern trips on which the fastest teams of those sections will be met. The track schedule will also be superior to that of the past few vears. 
Fiy WOOD. 


Notre Dame Scholastic 
Published every Saturday during Term Time at the University of Notre' Dame. 
•tntered as second-class matter at the Post OfSce, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Terms: $ 1.50 per Annum. Postpaid. Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Notre Dame, Indiana, December 5, 1908, , 
Board of Editors. 
IGNATIUS MCNAMEE, '09 RICHARD COLLENTINE, '09 OTTO A. SCHMID, '09 JOHN B. KANALEY, '09 HARRY LEDWIDGE, '09 GEORGE J. FINNIGAN, '10 PETER E. HEBERT, '10 EDWARD P. CLEARY, '09 DENIS A. MORRISON, 'IQ PAUL R. MARTIN, '10 THOMAS A. LAHEY, ' 1 1 JOHN B. MCMAHON, '0 9 MICHAEL A. MATHIS, '10 JOHN J. ECKERT, '11 

—Athletics, like everything else that is good, can be abused as well as used, and even in a college where athletics are duly regulated in every respect there Excess of is always great temptation to Athletics, excess on the part, of the individual, especially the suc­cessful participant in sporting activities. The right combination of the scholar and the' athlete in the college student is most admirable. It does everyone good to see the favorite of the gridiron and the diamond.^ going up for first honors at the end of the year. But, verily, there is no more pitifully pitiful sample of a college man than the athletic maniac, who' permits his sporting interest to take • ascendency over every other—the irrational "gent" who busies his mind and heart sixteen hours out of the twenty-four about a prospective monogram, and sleeps the remaining eight. These sometimes flourish in our colleges. Even a reasonable schedule has a tendency to develop a few of these specimens, and such miserable parodies on the idea of a student are a drawback to the institution that harbors them, though it harbor them alto­gether unwittingly. It sometimes happens that even the srenuine student allows himself 
to become so obsessed and victimized by the passion as to destroy his studious 
habits, and excessive interest and over­indulgence in' athletics entails intellectual, if not a worse form, of degeneracy. In the scale of ends to rational pursuit mere physical proficiency does not rank very high, and it serves very poorly indeed as an ultimate end of college life. We compas­sionate the folly of the weazened book-worm of a student who in his ardor ignores the demand of the body for physical exercise, but he has bushels of sense over the top-light Hercules who expects to get all his education in the gymnasium or on the field. It may be that the over-weening passion which athletics sometimes develops can be subdued only by violent and persistent restraint, but no student can afford to have his course of study degenerated, his possibilities curtailed, and his prospects 
blasted, perhaps, by an inordinate love of sport. 
—The conquest of Milwaukee on Thanks­giving was a fitting finale for N. D's '08 series of successes. Not a few are of the opinion, which is not a rash The '08 Record, one, that our phenomenal baseball aggregation of last 
spring  was  the  fastest  and  best  college  
team  in  the  world;  and  perhaps  it  was  
only for  lack  of  opportunity  that  it  was  

not demonstrated to the satisfaction of all. The football brigade has just finished the capture of the Indiana State" honors. Throughout the baseball and football sea­son Notre Dame has lost only two contests from a schedule that was neither small nor weak. She has shown herself uniformly and almost invariably equal to the occasion in a succession of ventures which were not at all timid. All in all, 1908 bias turned out the banner year. The Gold and Blue is flying high, and the omens are good. 
—Notre Dame may weU be proud of its alumni. That the alumni are proud of Notre Dame is evident. This fact was demonstrated to a nicety The Milwaukee last week at Milwaukee, when Alumni. the alumni association of . Wisconsin turned out, almost to a man, to welcome the football team, and  such a welcome! It was sincere and hearirsr,  and it was. a manifestation of the real­
Notre Dame spirit. Everything was done on grand stj^le, yet it did not resolve itself in mere form. The personal element predomi­nated, and no one stood on ceremonies. At the game the Notre Dame bleachers w^ere turned into a reception room. Here alumnus and student met as brothers. The mere fact that a man was rooting for Notre Dame was sufficient introduction to any other man of similar qualification. At the banquet the same spirit prevailed. It was Notre Dame, first, last and all the time. When a college has such a following as that it may feel that its mission has not been in vain. It ma3'- rest happy in the thought that year after year it is sending men out into the world who will make good; men veho cherish a warm memory of Alma Mater and who live up to her precepts. Such are the kind of men every college wants, and such are the Milwaukee alumni. 

—Football, as it is now played, was not brought to this stage by the efforts of the lovers of the gridiron sport or by any 
sort of natural evolution, so The New Game, much as it was compelled to 

it by the pressure of pubHc opinion. Three years ago there w^as voiced a vigorous general demand. for football reform. Newspapers inveighed against the game as it was then played, and backed their charges of brutality with incontrover­tible statistics; great universities eliminated this form of sport from the athletic program, and even President Roosevelt urged the rule-makers to try to debrutalize the game in so far as possible. "When the legislators did formulate a new code of regulations, the players themselves were skeptical as to their practicability, and the press predicted that the injuries and fatalities would be still further multiplied in -consequence of the necessity of so much open play. But the event has disproved this distrust and. the forecast. The. men. who. made the rules, how^ever, knew what' they- were about, or else they framed better than they thought. The game as .played to-day is more satis­factory bothto the player and the spectator than the old style of .football. The large attendance at every important game proves that the revision has not hurt the interest of the game. Universities that had aban­
doned the sport have resumed it. Even ministers have seen fit to laud it from the pulpit. In fact, the game is now one of science rather than of brute force, and no doubt, it will by degrees become even much more scientific than at present. 
Obituary. 

A shudder of pain and a mournful realiza­tion of the inevitableness of death spread over the University on Monday morning last when it was learned that Paul Eldridge Smith, a Sophomore, had passed away in the night after an illness of three weeks. The feeling of sadness was intensified by the fes­tivities of President's Day, which were cur­tailed out of respect for the dead. That he should be taken in early youth, when his prospects of a splendid career were budding into bloom, seems hard to bear; yet the real­ization that his young life w^as innocent and his death w^ell fortified gives consolation to his sorrowul family and to all who knew Paul at Notre Dame. The funeral will be held in St. Mary's Church, Portland, Oregon, on December ninth, i?. I. P. 
* 
* * 

The members of the Sophomore class of the University of Notre Dame, do hereby tender their sincere sympathy and the assurance of prayerful rememberance, to the sorrow-stricken relatives of our esteemed classmate, Paul. E. Smith. 
(Signed).—Elmo A. Funk, Pres. 
Wm. Heyl, V. Pres. 
Stewart Graham, Sect. 
Anton Hebenstreit, Treas. 

A minister who witnessed the Marquette-Notre Dame game on Thanksgiving made the following observation: " This particular feature of the game impressed me most. Football is the finest expression of physical prowess and endurance we have. When the game is played as it ought to be, and as it was this afternoon, the players are under the greatest excitement and provocation, yet they must remain gentlemen.in spite of all. If they can not, then they must get out of the game.. A man must learn to hit hard with­out malice and to be hit har^ without angei". It is a splendid lesson in self-control." 
The Season. 

State Champions and goal line uncrossed! That sums up the Varsity season of '08. From every view-point it was one of the most successful years in the gridiron history of Notre Dame. In Coach Place we had a man whose experience proved a valuable 
CAPTAIN MILLER. 

asset to the team, and the results attained stamped him as a worthy successor to Coach Barry of last year. The material was prob­ably equal, if not superior, to any that ever reported to a coach at Notre Dame, a fact to which the success of the season is largely attributable. 
Although Notre Dame clashed with but one of the Big Conference elevens, a study of comparative scores must rank the wearers of the Gold and Blue among the top­notchers in the West. Only one team, Mar­quette, succeeded in getting the ball within our twenty-yard line, and only twenty points were scored against us, while Place's men registered a total of three hundred and twenty-six against their opponents. The highest score was chalked up in the Physi­cian and Surgeon game when eighty-eight points were piled up in forty minutes of 


SCHOLASTIC 

play. It was in this game that the Varsity established the ground-gaining record of the season by advancing the leather for a total of one thousand three hundred and sixteen yards. 
Although Manager Curtis was handi­capped in arranging the schedule he listed four big games, and on the whole the card was superior to that of the last few years. Hillsdale and Franklin- served as the preliminary workouts before the Michigan game, and w^ere easily disposed of by scores of 39-0 and 64-0. The Wolverines were back on the list for the first time in five years, and had it not been for the. kicking of AUerdice, who scored all their points by negotiating three goals from the field, Yost's men would have been numbered among the vanquished. The Varsity showed superior form all the way through, especially in the second half when Vaughan dashed across the line for the only touchdown ever scored • by the Gold and Blue against the Wolverines. The Phy^sicians and Surgeons, and Ohio Northern were the next to fall prey to the Varsity by scores of 88-0 and 58-4, respectively. The big annual dash with Indiana at Indianapolis was next on the list, and after routing the Sheldonites 11-0, Place's men clinched the state championship by defeating Wabash a week later 8-4, all 
the points coming on goals from the field. As Indiana trimmed Purdue, Notre Dame is 
• = -,..' 
-i^^fCi*-- -, '^­^t.%''^i^S^'"-.-* ~ ,-•" 
"--, ''' t^^^y'y jpj ^ 
'^^^f^-'H' W^%,^m* 
''iv cl:.r-^^^^^ 


^^^^^^^ ­
^SfSSMM 
^^^^ 

'^i^P^H ^H 
^><^"i^^• ^^ H 
B 1

^^Pf "-"7 KSS /8B 
:;4.-"^''*". '^^'^i • 

P^ ^^ 
^^*KS^^S^^ tC-^'>si\4.V--w 
^f^XtX-^-^Ji^ 
C-KX'.-'-.-'Zi-^ •''• i •t^'i'utz^-^-*^*^
•l^^p 
>>'?)aSIl^^^.l -\:-Wm¥i^m 
-^^^^SS^^^^^CT Wsl^KSE^^^St 
Jv^^V;-1-,'. T'-** ''i*T 
aSSS 
'>",:--• IJm3^^ "•:v/J--'C*di£Si:> •P«SK^ jss 
HOWARD EDWARDS. 



2IO NOTRE DAME 
left in undisputed possession of the state laurels. St. Viateur's eleven was swamped by the Varsity 46-0, and the season was closed Thanksgiving Day by a hard-fought victory over Marquette at Milwaukee by a score of 6-0, which gives the Varsity additional standing from the fact that Marquette played Illinois to a tie 6-6 and held Wisconsin 9-6. 
Circumstances compelled Coach Place to 
make constant shifts in the line-up with the 
result that he practically turned o«t two 
teams. Captain Miller worked at both 
center and half-back, his best exhibition at 
the former post being seen in the Michigan 
game. Edwards appeared at tackle, guard, 
and full-back, and proved his versatility by 
making good in each department. Dolan­
alternated at tackle and guard, w^hile Dwyer 
was called upon to run the team at quarter 
in addition to playing half-back. Collins 
started in at tackle, but was shifted to 
end where he struck his stride strong. 

"Red" Miller fiiUy justified the confidence reposed in him last year when he w^as elected captain, and he proved as capable a leader as the Gold and Blue has ever had. A hard and clean player, a faithful trainer, he w^as ever alert to the best interests of the team, and it was these qualities that fitted him so admirably for the position. That his work did not sufier from the duties of the captaincy is evident from the fact that he w^as again unanimously chosen by the critics for a berth on the All-Indiana team. Dolan and Ruel were also picked for the team, and their brilHant work throughout the season surely deserved the honor.. Several of the Freshman stars would -undoubtedly have landed placeshadthey not been barred from the state contests by the elegibility rule. 
A review of the season, however, which took into consideration only the stellar lights w^ould be decidedly unjust, for the laurels must also be shared with those men whose work %' often slighted or underesti­mated, the "scrubs." Without them a good team would be impossible, and so when you recall the sensational end-run or line-plunge of the star in the limeilight, also remember the man w^ho took the knocks and bumps of the daily practice with the hope of but one reward, that he might see the Varsity able to hold its own with the best of them 

SCHOLASTIC 
when it came to the day of battle. And so 
the names of such men ag Dionne, Clement, 
Freeze, Deiner, Binz, Moriarty, and Alurphy 
are linked with the success of the'08 Varsity, 
and sincere gratitude is due them from every 
student in appreciation of their work, 
Howard Edwards has been elected to the 
captaincy for '09, and his experience and 

knowledge of the game equip him well for 
the position. 
None of this year's team is lost by grad­

uation, and as most of the men expect to 
return it is a safe prediction that Notre 
Dame will again be in the forefront of 
Western elevens next year when the togs 
are laid aside at Thanksgiving time. The 
results of the games follow: 
Notre Dame, 39; Hillsdale, 0. 
Notre Dame, 64; Franklin, 0. 
Notre Dame, 6; Michigan, 12. 
Notre Dame, 88; P: and S., 0. 
Notre Dame, 58; Ohio Northern, 4. 
Notre Dame, 11; Indiana, 0. 
Notae Dame, 8; Wabash, 4. 
Notre Dame, 46; St. Viateurs, 0. 
Notre Dame, • 6; Marquette, 0. 
' J. B. KANALEY, '09. 
Baseball Prospects. 

When Coach Curtis ..issues the call for diamond candidates after the Christmas holidays five of last year's stars will be missing, the absentees including Dubuc, Brogan, Cutshaw, Centlivre, and McKenna. Dubuc and Cutshaw have entered the professional, ranks; Brogan is taking a Pdstgfaduafe course in law at Columbia University, w^hile Centlivre and McKenna are attending Michigan and George Washington, Universities respectively. The loss of these men dims the outlook somewhat, biit there is an abundance of promisirig material which ought to develop into Varsity calibre. 
Harry Curtis, will again tutor the men in the fine jjoints of the game, and the phenomenal record of last year, when only one game was lost out of thirty games played, leaves ho question. as ..to his fitness, for the position. A coach to direct the work of the team from the bench is what Notre Dame has needed for years, and when the star catcher of the '06 Varsity was selected last year it was a case of- picking the right,man for the right place. Coach 

NOTRE DAME 

Curtis w^ill inaugurate a new system of picking the squad this j^ear which is expected to prove most effective. Instead of issuing a general call for candidates, he will size up. each hall separately, and those thus selected will compose the Varsity squad. In this way it is believed that more candidates will report, and that {a better opportunity will be given for judging the merits of the men. 
Among the monogram men w^ho w^ill spike the dust again this year are "Dreams" Scanlon, Ryan and Phillips, pitchers; Ray Scanlon and McDonough, catchers; Daniels, first baseman; Ruel, shortstop;1 Bonham, left field; and McKee, center field, ijThe annual fall practice brought forth some likely aspirants, such as Connelly, Gibson, Kennedy, Hogan, Burke, Kelly, ' Maloney­and Attley, McBride who are expected to give a good account of themselves when the bats begin to swing. The captaincj- will not be announced until after Christmas. 
Manager Curtis is at work on the schedule which will include the best teams in the West. Four games have already been arranged with A'lichigan to be played as follows: April 19 and Ma3'-S at Notre Dame; May 1st and 22d at Ann Arbor. The usual state trips will be taken, and a western trip is also probable as negotiations are now being carried on with Northwestern, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Nebraska and Illinois. 
•_ ^_ '_ J. B:K. 

- Varsity Triumphs over Marquette, 6-0. 
With a slight paraphrase in order, it was a case of "Greek met Greek," and the above heading tells the result. The Varsity left for Milwaukee vath the determination of keeping their goal-line uncrossed, and they made good, although it was only after one of the hardest struggles of the year that the trick was turned. The Milwaukeeans forced the fighting in the first half and had a shade the better of the argument, but in the second period, Place's men, theretofore on the defensive, opened up their offensive tactics, and settled all uncertainty as to the' outcome • by sweeping down the field for a touchdown. The superior condition of the Varsity was evident throughout, and Dwyer was the only man to retire with 

SCHOLASTIC 211 
injuries, his collar bone being broken in the first three minutes of play. Hamilton replaced him, and although he had been out of practice for a week owing to a bruised hip he responded nobly and played a mag­nificent game. McDonald put up his best exhibition of the year, his sensational ^;vork being responsible for the touchdown. 
The following account of the game is from the Milwaukee Sentinel: 
NoTKE DAHE WON 6 "to 0. 

That short sentence tells the story of the bitterest, most gruelling football battle ever fought in Milwan­kee. ^ With six minutes to play in the second half a lad named McDonald tore through the line for three yards and planted the ball on the other side of the white mark, right under the Marquette goal posts. 
It was a hard game for Marquette to lose. Three times in the first half and twice in the second Juneau's men were within striking distance of Notre Dame's goal, but each time thev failed at the crucial moment. Notre Dame had one chance and took it. Some may call it luck, but it wasn't. It was football. It 
was class. 
Before the game it was said that if Notre Dame won it would be on account of weight. It was brain-w^ork that won. Throughout the whole of the first half the visitors played the old Yale waiting game. They, let Marquette work itself out, carrying the ball down the field, holding whenever the goal was in danger and kicking on the first down without trying any of their fancj- plays. In the second half. Coach Place pulled out Capt. Miller and Ruel, two plunging half-backs, and put in his "flying squadron"—^McDonald and Schmitt, two men who could tear down the field like streaks. • 
MCDONALD Wp^s GAME. 

McDonald practically won the game. His speed was something startling, making fast men like Meyer, Munsell, and Foley look slow. His. work in returniDg: punts would have made Wallj- SteflFen jealous, and the way he tore down the field on fake kicks fairly dazzled the Marquette ends. It was McDonald who helped place the ball within the shadow of the Marquette goal posts, and -it w^as McDonald who-carried it over for the lone touchdown. 
. Notre Dame's victory was indirectly .the result of a-fumble. Late in the second half-when Art Meyer was-helped off the field with. an injured knee, Cleary, a game, heady little halt-back, was sent in. On his first, play he made six yards around right end, but was tackled so hard that the ball flew out of his grasp and Dimmick fell on it. A fake kick and two long forward passes from McDonald to-Dolan and Collins-landed the ball five yards from the Marquette goal and a penalty cut the distance in half. A centre play by Vaughan failed to gain an inch,.but McDonald wriggled over the line on the next play. 
The game itself was a series of spectacular plays. Long, flashy end-runs, dazzling forward, passes, and' snapp3', businesslike tackles were in order almost every minute of play. The tackling honors, however, went. 
212 NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
to Notre Dame. Whenever one of the visitors hit the man with the ball the play stopped right there. There was no fussing about it. Every tackle was brief and to the point. Marquette was lacking in that respect. Generally there were half a dozen Mar­quette men down the field on punts, but the man with the ball always managed to slide through most of them. 
The result of the game was in doubt until the very end, even after Marquette had been scored upon late in the second half, and 5500 spectators were on their feet at almost every play. The teams were so evenly matched, and startling plaj-^s so frequent that a touchdown at any moment would not have been surprising. 
Marquette had golden opportunities to score in both halves, but failed to take advantage of them. Right after the opening kickoflF Juneau's team men tore down the field play after play until it looked as if a touch­down w^as certain. On the fifteen-yard line some one blundered, and Notre Dame kicked out of danger. 
Again in the first half, Marquette had the ball within sttiking distance when a blocked forward pass gave Notre Dame the pigskin a yard from its goal. Another punt by Miller sent the ball hurtling down the field, and Marquette had to start all over apain. 
The real opportunity, however, came in the second half. Shortly after the kickoff Marquette worked the ball its way dowm to Notre Dame's thirty-five yard line w^here the South Benders held for downs. Hamilton essayed a forward pass, but Hanley broke through the line and blocked it. The ball bounded down the field toward the Notre Dame goal with half a dozen men after it, and Hamilton finally fell on it just a foot from the line. 
BALL OX OXE FOOT LLXE. 

Marquette had the, chance of its life to score a safety, but failed through over anxiety. The first play was directed straight at centre, and Manning, the demon custodian of that position on the Marquette team,- missed his man and left a hole a yard wide in his wake. Vaughan, the Notre Dame full-hack, ambled through, and did not stop until he had traveled thirty-five yards. Later on Marquette worked the ball to Notre Dame's twent3'-five-yard line, from which Wright tried a drop kick. The wind, however, carried the ball astray, and Marquette lost its last chance 
to score. 

Notre Dame's rally late in the second half was so sud­
den that it fairly carried Marquette ofi" its feet. With 
four ft-esb men in the line-up, Coach Place's men were 
just strong enough to put the local team on the run, 
and. and the two forward -passes - they veorked in quick 
succession turned the tide. When McDonald carried 
the ball over the line, the. few Notre Dame rooters 
present went wild. The Marquette crowd kept on 
rooting, but. it was" nof.the.same-old root. There was 
something lacking. 

In the six minutes that remained Marquette fought desperately to overcome the lead, and Notre Dame battied just as hard to keep it. Neither side was able to gain any material advantage, and the game ended w^ith, the ball in midfield and Notre "Dame on the defensive. • . --' 
Milwaukee Reception. 

Thanksgiving was a gala occasion in Milwaukee. The football game, scheduled between Notre Dame and Marquette, aroused the real college spirit and turned a cit3'^ of commerce into a place of care-free sport in a .single night. The Notre Dame team and a few students arrived in Milwaukee on Wednesday evening, and much to their surprise they were greeted at the station by the members of the Notre Dame Alumni association of Wisconsin, who took them to their hotel in gaily decorated automobiles. 
Thanksgiving night, the alumni association covered itself with glory, and never in the history of Milwaukee has a program been executed in a better manner. Boxes were 
provided  at  the  theatre,  and  the  entire  
Notre  Dame  contingent  witnessed  "The  
Road  to  Yesterday."  

Following the play came the banquet. Nothing is hearer to the heart of the college boy than eating, and on this occasion he was amply satisfied. The banquet hall of the Milwaukee Athletic Club had been secured by the alumni, and sixtj^ men sat down at the long tables. For three hours they feasted, course after course being served in rapid succession. Then came the speeches. Mr. Chauncey Yockey '01 was toast-master, and his pleasant manner proclaitbed him to be the same old Chauncey of student days. The oldest speaker present was Mr. John Mclntyre, '84, who recalled many old memories. Much of the success of the affair was due to Messrs. Charles and George Ziegler, Chauncey and Edward Yockey and Francis Burke. The following unique menu w^as served: 
MENU.' Place's Blue Points St. Mary's Olive Celery Lantry Tomato Boullion a la Red Miller Sorin's Crab Meat a la Maryland Corby Roast Squash 

. Carroll Head Lettuce St. Joseph Wafers " Notre Dame Ice . Bro; Leopold's Assorted Cakes Curtis Cream. Cheese . Wood's Toasted Crackers Cafi^ Noir Qlives .. Cigars 





Dotrc Dame Scholastic 
DlSCe-9VA51-5emP€!e' VICTVRV/S-• VlVe -COVASI- CRAS-lMORIT\/R\yS-
VOL. XLIII . NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 27, 1909. No. 12. 
CHAMPIONS OF THE WEST. 
^y^HE N you come to tell the story Of the season's -varied glory. 

And the laurels that contributed to bristle up our crest, Don't forget the proclamation That our football aggregation 
Won the right to wear the title of the Champions of the West. 
'Twas an all-star bunch of players; 
They were hustlers, also stayers,— 
Played the game from start to finish with enthusiastic zest; They could be, at need, good losers. But the good old Gold and Blue, sirs. 
Was not losing — not exactly; we were Champions of the West. Did our rooter-clans foregather? Did they whoop it up? Well, rather. Why, the welkin needed mending at the close of every test; And—a fact of common knowledge— Football simply owned the college When the Varsity got home at last, the Champions of the West. 
Take it from me straight, nay, rigid. 
That the day will be some frigid 
When our foes dislodge the title we are hugging to our breast; As we have it, so we'll hold it. On our banner we have scrolled it. 
And the Gold and Blue henceforward spells the Champions of the West. Mark ye, then, all husky rivals. W e are it, the fair survivals Of the fittest on the grid-iron; you're at most but second best. For we can, despite your bluffin'. Knock the everlastin' stuffin' Out of any squad that tackles us, the Champions of the West. A. B. 
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
A Review of Our Big Games. 
THOMAS CLEARY, '10. 

-o,^>; 
»^4 T maj'- strike the "rooters" as 

w;'^^ ^ interesting that Notre Dame 
iSS[^ ^ played her first big game 
' ^y7p?J against Michigan. This was in 
^ V 1 1887. and the Wolverines carried 
<4^ off the victory, 26-0. In a second 

contest the same 3'ear Notre Dame showed 
better form, and the Ann Arborites, while 
again successful, had to fight harder as the 
10-6 score indicates. After this the pigskin 
sport was carried on in a desultorj'- fashion 
for several years, no game worthy of mention 
occurring before 1894, with the exception of 
a tilt with Hillsdale College in lSy3, when 
we broke even with the visitors (10-10) 
through the punting of Ouinlan at full-back. 
In 1894 football at Notre Dame maj"­fairly be said to have begun its career. Rush Medical College was the first to fall before our attack, the snap and vim of the Notre Dame warriors triumphing over the weight and size of the Doctors, who registered onh' 6 points against 18. We next shut out Wabash 30-0. Captain Keough, Dinkel, Schillo and Zeitler were the men w^ho contributed most to our success in both these games. 
Through inability to understand or check the interference of Chicago w^e lost in 1896 (18-0), though at line-bucking we were supe­rior to the Maroons. In the Purdue game of that 3'ear the same cause was responsible for defeat, inability to break up the inter­ference of our opponents, a weakness which was attributed to the lack of a good "scrub" team w^ith T^'^hich to practise. 
The next year Chicago carried off the victory again (34-5). Notre Dame's inter­ference w^as weak; the men lined up slowly and did not go down fast enough under punts and kick-offs, yet our work was not undeserving of praise in some respects. A 70-yard run and a field goal from the 30­yard line by Kegler, and the magnificent . defense of "Big" John Eggeman were the redeeming features. 
The Varsity opened her football season in '90 by taking the scalp of Illinois (5-0), and the rejoicing at Notre Dame was unbounded. Three times the valiant supporters oif the Gold and Blue were pushed within a few 
yards of their goal, but each time with all 
their fighting blood aroused thej' held their 
opponents like a stone wall. Captain Mullen 
and Farley at the ends, b3' their speed in run-^ 
ning down under punts and their splendid 
tackling, "Big" John Eggeman hj his line 
work, and Fleming who brought us our five 
points bj^ a field goal, established themselves 
as the heroes of the fra3% The entire team 
made a ver3'- creditable showing, and the 
hopes of the rooters ran hign. 
Our ambitions crumbled when we w^ere 
crushed by the Michigan machine, 23-0. 
Farle3' and Eggeman again made a good 
showing, but team-work was lacking. 
Fumbles were frequent, and the line failed 
to hold the Wolverines from blocking'kicks. 
Visions of the State Championship faded 
when we were defeated by Indiana (11-5). 
The Bloomiiigton pla3"ers were heavier and 
superior in interference, but several flukes 
had much to do \vith the final score. 
The season of '99 was in many respects a glorious one for the moleskin men of Notre Dame. True, Chicago ran up 23 punts, while we got only 5, 3'et it was a source of satis­faction to us to have been able to score at all. To Chicago rooters who expected to see the Maroons register a much larger score, the outcome was a great surprise. Eggeman, the big Varsity center, completely out-played Speed, the star of the Maroons, and Farley too was much in the limelight, making sen.'-eral large gains around end and our only touchdown. 
The Michigan game of this 3^ear was a hard-fought contest, ending in victory for the Wolverines (12-0). Michigan started in fast, and within five minutes of play had made their first touchdown. During the rest of the first half Notre Dame held the Ann Arborites, but in the second half they scored again, and onW a magnificent tackle by Farley averted another touch­down. Laterin the season Indiana proved an easy pre3^ (17-0), and we tied Purdue (10-10). 
The season of 1900 -^started off w^rong. In one of the hardest fought battles ever seen in the state we lost to Indiana (6-0), and gloom settled over the camp of loyal rooters. With Captain Farle3'- playing sensa­tionall3' at half-back, and Farragher doing gilt-edged work at tackle, Notre Dame at 


NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
first seemed sure of victory, but both men 
were injured early in the game and our 
hopes dwindled away. 
At Madison we were completely out­
classed. The line failed to hold on defense, 
and as we seldom had the ball in our posses­
sion we had little opportunity to show what 
we could do on offense—54-0 sums up the 
dismal story. Some of the gloom lifted when 
we held Michigan down to seven points. 
Sammon at full-back and Gl^mn at end were 
the stars, but every man gave a good 
account of himself, forcing the Wolverines 
to fight hard for every foot gained. In the 
first half a fumble gave Michigan the ball" 
on our 9-yard line, and from there the oval 
was carried over for a touchdown. The .two 
additional points were gained by forcing 
Sammon back for a safety. In the second 
half we put Michigan on the defensive, once 
pushing her back within three j^ards of the 
goal, but a mighty defense held us from 
going further. 
The following year (1901) witnessed our 
triumph over both Purdue and Indiana. The 
Boilermakers put up a strong defense, but 
were unable to keep otir speedy backs from 
going through the line, while on offense 
they were very weak. The score (12-6) 
would have been larger had not Notre Dame 
lost the ball at critical moments. 
The decisive defeat of the Down State 
Hoosiers (lS-5) left us unquestioned cham­
pions of the State. The Bloomingtonians 
were completely outplayed, their one touch­
down being the result of a fluke. Sammon 
added to his glory in this game by a 55 yard 
run, while Pick at centre and McGlew at 
quarter deh'ghted the hearts of the rooters. 
The game with Michigan in 1902 was a remarkable one. The splendid showing of' Sammon aroused the admiration and aston­ishment of the Wolverine rooters, and" evoked the comments of the Chicago and Detroit. press. Throughout the battle he was a human catapult, forcing himself through the Michigan line again and again with the pre­cision and force of a battering ram. Michigan scored first in the opening half, but w-as soon put on the defensive. Aided by Doar, Sammon at one time advanced the ball to the Wolverine's five-yard line, but there we were held for downs. The terrific struggle of the first half, however, told on our men, and in the second half they gradually 
weakened before the well-directed charges 
of the Yost machine. Michigan secured three 
touchdowns this half, but she had to fight 
hard for them. When the whistle blew w^e 
were defeated, but by no means disgraced. 
Another hard struggle, in which the brilliant 
playing of Doar and Sammon was again in 
evidence, gave us a victory over Indiana. 
Northwestern University was our only 
formidable opponent in '03. The game took 
place at the American League ball grounds, 
Chicago, and was one of the fiercest battles 
ever waged upon a Western gridiron. In the 
first half Lonergan, the Notre Dfime left-half, 
ran forty-five yards for a touchdown, but 
the ball w^as brought back because of hold­
ing in the line. The Evanston team kept us 
on the defensive during the first half. Several 
times a touchdown by Northwestern seemed 
inevitable. We were first pushed back to 
the nine-yard line, and we held them back, 
but through a blocked kick were shoved back 
to the two-yard line. A desperate defense 
followed; a touchdown was averted with 
the ball only six inches from the goal. In 
attempting to punt a second time Sammon 
sent the ball out of bounds on the five-yard 
line. A third time our goal was in immediate 
danger, but a third time the Purple's 
advance w^as checked. The ball was punted 
out of danger, and a mighty cheer went up from the throats of the anxious rooters for the Gold and Blue. Score, 0-0. 
Two big games w-ere scheduled in '04 and we lost both. Wisconsin defeated us 58-0, Purdue 36-0. While Notre Dame fought bravelj"^ in both games she fought against the inevitable. She was simply out-classed. 
The increased strength of the team of '05 was shown by our holding the Badgers to 23 points. Through a mere accident we lost a fine chance to score. After eluding the interference of the entire Wisconsin team, and running a distance of 60 yards, Silver slipped and fell. Before he could arise he was tackled and a splendid opportunit3' was lost. 
Through the coaching of Barry Notre Dame was enabled to beat Purdue in '06 for the first time in some years. The only score of the game was made by Notre Dame on a safety. But the score does not tell the game. Touchdowns were made by Sheehan, Beacom and Hurtzell, but they were called 
i8o NOTRE DAME 
back because of holding in the line, tripping, etc. Callicrate, after carrying the oval over the line hy a 60-yard run, was also called back on a foul. The Indiana game was hotly contested, but the Bloomingtonians had a superior team, and we w^ere obliged to acknowledge defeat (12—0). 
In '07 we measured closer to the strength of Indiana, fighting her to a standstill (0-0). "Red" Miller was the star of the game. In blocking punts, breaking up forward passes, spoiling end runs and backing up the line he w^as alway^s on hand. In the line Lynch, Paine and Alertes did the fancy work, while Ryan and Callicrate filled their back-field positions in the most approved fashion. Purdue proved an easy conquest (17—0), but the score should have been larger. Ryan's seventy-yard run for a touchdown was not allowed because the linesmen had not moved the lines. 
Last year witnessed a triumph hitherto unknown to Notre Dame. We succeeded in crossing Michigan goal-line and prevented them from crossing ours. True, Michigan w^on, but it was a case of luck, w^hich even Yost admitted. Three field goals by Allerdice netted the twelve points. To one man's kicking ability the Wolverines' victory was due, for, outside of punting, Notre Dame was superior to Michigan in every respect. Our only touchdown was made by Vaughan after a sensational run of fifty yards. Ham­ilton kicked goal. Indiana and Purdue were defeated in turn, and so we ended the season State Champions and one of the best teams of the West. 
Varsity Verse. 
YOST'S "PRACTICE GAME." 
Oh, sportsmen, have you heard the dope? It surely is a jest, For "Hurry Up" says Michigan Is Champion of the West. He says he conquered ever)' team Excepting Notre Dame, And then he only took her on To get a "practice game." Ha! Ha! "I didn't care a bit," says, Yost, "If N. D. lost or won." Of course he don't recall his words ' When that hard-fought game was done; 


SCHOLASftC 
"I'm tired and all discouraged, and I'm s'ck of it." His fame Had got a little jo'ting from That "work-out," "pract'ce game." Ua! Ha! 
Of course he don't ncall his words, "It makes me dog-goned mad To think we might have won from them,"' .\nd others we might add, "A game like that's the worst to lose. It sets one's heart aflame. And leavis a worm to gnaw and gnaw." Expensive "p'actice game." Ha! Ha! 
So, men of sport, what think 3'ou now ? Such action's small at best, 
N. D. alone can rightly hold The prestige of the West. She struggled hard, her slate is clean, The just respect her claim. And Mr. Yost should not forget 
That dear-bought "practice game." Ha! Ha! 
G. J. F. 
TH E  PARABLE  OF "DRAWING  THE  LINE."  
Said David to Goliath, "I licked you fair and square. Goliath blandly answered, "I'm licked but 'tisn't fair, I w^asn't in condition  
Or else you'd not have won. You don't deserA'e the credit, I only fought for fun."  
The Egypt Record-Herald Where Axelson wrote dope. Said, "'Mongst the All-Jew VYoung David needn't hope To get a place, though able All others to outshine, There are so many claimants ' He've got to draw the line.'"  ictors  
F.  
STILL  CHAMPIONS.  
Rah! Rah!  The  Team!  
Still Champions, Although Marquette, You bet, Gave our muscle  
A tussle.  
Gee!  
That 1000% looks goodRah! Rah! The Team.  to  me.   G.  



NOTRE DAME 
The Season of J909. 
LEO J. CLEARY, '10. 

The Marquette game closed the greatest season in the history of the gridiron sport at Notre Dame. The circumstances which attended every game were such as to fix the sport more firmly in the category of college contests. We were fortunate in having no serious accidents. Crowds came in increasing numbers to witness the exhibitions on Cartier Field, and everywhere a game was witnessed there was found in the hearts of the spectators a respect and an admiration for the men who battled so nobly, so cleanh', so loyally for the honor of their Alma Mater. 
The football history of 1909 has become athletic history. The moleskin warriors who graced the gridiron stage for their brief day have passed in review; they have justlj' won their right to immortalit3', and while there lives a student of this ^ear at Notre Dame their praises will be sung. Beginning with the trouncing administered Olivet, and on through the grand triumphal march against Michigan and Pittsburg and the victories over Wabash and Marquette, the team played in a manner which elicited applause at every turn. 
Every year Notre Dame has had reason to be proud of men who won the football monogram. Every year some few have deserved more than a passing notice; but never before have we had reason to boast of such an aggregation of stars as composed the '09 Varsity. This year every position on the team was filled by a plajer who possessed all the qualifications necessary to entitle him to a ranking among the foremost contenders for a similar position The splen­did teamwork and steady, consistent playing of every^ member was conspicuous through­out the season. All had experience, all knew the rules; and this, coupled with the Notre Dame fighting spirit, made them invincible. 
During the season we encountered every kind of play known. Heze Clark had the Rose Poly squad drilled in the science of the forward pass, but the Notre Dame ends proved a barrier to its successful use. The 
M. A. C. team had a splendid line-up, but the speed and weight of the Gold and Blue 
SCHOLASTIC i8] 
warriors proved a stone-wall defense against line plays. At Pittsburg w^ere displaj-ed the results of Eastern coaching. The final score was only 6 to 0, but this is no record of the comparative strength of the teams, for imdue penalties were imposed, and JSTotrc Dame played with the disadvantage, of a partial referee. In the banner game of the season at Ann Arbor, Notre Dame clearly demonstrated her superiority in the West. For 3'ears the Yost machine had held sway. Michigan had given Syracuse a drubbing one week bef< re which showed her wonder­ful strength; and competent critics, allow­ing Notre Dame due credit for her victories, prophesied a close score in Michigan's favor. Michigan men were in the best of condition, their linemen \vere heavy and their repor­tory of plan's well rehearsed. Everj'^ artifice was employed by Yost's pupils; but the plays V ere smothered as fast as they Were started. Michigan v as out-generaled, out­fought and out-played at ever}'stage of the game, and their show of gameness dwindled when they faced a better line-up. The victory over Michiiran j^laces Notre Dame far in the lead for Westirn honors and with a claim to Eastern superioritj' as well. 
Chicago tied CornJl. Harvard defeated Cornell, lS-0. Yale defeated Harvard, S-0, and conquered S3'racu«e, 14-0. Michigan piled up a score of 43 ayainst S\-racuse. This gives Michigan a higher ranking than any Eastern college. Chicago hurabletl Illinois and Purdue, and then let Minnesota run up a 29-6 score. Minnesota then took the conference honors bj-- winning from Wisconsin, onh' to give honors to Michigan by a 15-6 count. By h.-df a dozen scheduled routes Notre Dame may be proved far iti advance of all other claimants for football prestige. The games played during the season between the va'rious colleges furnish a splendid opportunity to estimate the strength of all the elevens of the country. 
Notre Dame has been undergoing an evolution in football. She has been steadily advancing, until now she seems to "rest at the pinnacle of athletic fame, and from the credit given this season's team alone Notre Dame seems to have been recognized and appreciated by the public. Such well-earned success surelj"- presages a bright future for football at Notre Dame, 


1.S2 XOTRE DAME 
A Toast. 
V 
'UV. iiattit.-- ;irc all i!\cr niu! the i^rn^s 
Will i^row aLiaiii, 
Wln'--^ late in sun and rain Tliev Irt the lino or licavcil the torward ])ass. < )r k-11 td.iiciller in a <tru.L;,!.;lin_Lr nias>. 
And cvcrvw IKTC the colors hriizht would uleani— The .Ljold of >-unset and the blue ol slcy. .•\ cheer to_:^ether. felK'.ws. stronjr and hii;h— 
The Team I 
The ineiiioi'v of iheni wdi not ji is^ away In afier years 
The anxious wailing and the fe.us Before; and then the joy when won ilie (ia\. Will %et lie told when we are bent ai d ur.-iy. 
Let their l)iiL;l]t cdors on th'> lirei'zes stream— The lilue <>f heaven, the ijo'd ol settini; su'i. One lustv cheer together, hoys, just one — The Team! 
(rod Sjieed vou, warriors.' To us _\ ou are the liest In all the world 
In other years when you are hurled .X.irai'ist the line of life with head and breast. Hit hard with do.uired patience till you wrest 
\ victorv, and vour co'ors bright are seen— The i^old of stars that iilimnier in the b'ue. This last one, all tou^ether. fellows, warm and true— 
The Team 1 C. 
The Team. 
Now that the iootball season of 1901) is about to ijo down as historv and the men who have represented the \'arsit\' are about to disband, we take this opjjortunity of extending" most hearty congratulations to every member of the squad. The season has indeed been a most glorious one, and reflects credit on each and every player who in any way helped to make us Champions of the We.st. The victories of the squad have immortalized it as the greatest team ever turned out by Xotre Dame. 
The name of Coach Longman has been sounded by every sporting sheet in the c>>untr\-, and everywhere are echoed praises for Captain Edwards and liis men. Just who is responsible ior the showing of our team this season no one can sav, and to place the glory achieved upon an\'one in part'cular would be hardlv fair to the other. All workinij tosrether under the direction of that great coach of ours brought the splendid results. We introduce each pla3'er 


SCHOLASTIC 
to our readers before he retires from the limelight of our chani]:)ionshi]) year. 
C.'VI'T.VI.N HoWWKIt Kl)\V.\KI)S. 
"Hd" was utility man last year, and at 
the end of the season he was chosen by 
his team-mates to captain the 1909 Eleven. 
His work on the line this year has been 
consis'ent at all times, and .^is a leader too 
much praise can not be .uiven him. fie ]jut 
forth every effort to keep his men together, 

and was j^erhajjs the most conscientious trainer on the sipiad. .Vltliough sufTering from injuries which he received early in the season he was in the line-ui) for every game. He is a strong defensive player, and can carrN- the ball and receive forward passes in good st3'le. This is his third 3-ear and 
he will return. 
I-IARKV AIlLLIiR. 

After all the papers in the West have lauded the work of Our Red to the skies 
GSTCD^rS GliAMPlOM^ 

Collins, !•:. DimiiiicU, T Dolaii, C, , T I,>nch, C. Kt-liy, ('.. I'liilim ok, (',. ?*IaUlie\\.s, I'",. i)",L;niaii, Coarh .Miller, II. H Ilaiiiilton, n. H. Capl. Ivlwards, f",. K\aii, II. M. \'au,i;lian, I". I'.. Sclniiitt, I". H. IMaloiicy, K. 
uMMjaiia!Ma?igBSjaa»iwg*iMwe!sfe'jT^ 
184 NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
we can hardly add to his fame. He is a great player of course. The greatest half­back in the West without a doubt, and so the great Walter Camp pronounced him. Even the celebrated Yost, while he watched his own team go down to defeat, said: "It was certainly a treat and took some of the sting of defeat away to watch that Red­headed Irishman shake 'em oif." His brilliant work in the back-field earned him a place on the All-Indiana eleven, for which he was 
unanimously chosen. RALPH DoiivncK. Ralph played on the team last year. He was not eligible for all the games. But this 3 ear he vi^as in the harness from the start, and his plajnng has been such that critics who have seen him declare he is the fastest tackle in the West. He is especially strong on defense, and on his tackle-around plays he carried the ball many yards for his team. "Dim," says, yes, he will be "on the job" again next year. 
PETE V.\UGHAX. 

Pete is another second-3'ear man. Good at leading interference, a terrific line plunger, and without a peer in handling the forward pass, he was perhaps the surest ground-gainer on the team and could always be relied upon in a pinch. Walter Eckersall pronounces him the All-Western full-back. Pete will return again next year. 
GEORGE PHILBROOK. 

Phil is another second-3'^ear man. He was not in the line until late last j'^ear. But, as predicted at the end of last season, he w^as a valuable asset to the line this year. He is big and strong, fast enough to play any position on the line or at end where he was seen early in the season. This year he alter­nated with Edwards at guard and tackle, and, like Edwards, he carries the ball well. His best performances this year were at Pittsburg and against Miami.. In the latter game he scored two touchdowns after 40­yard runs. Phil will be with us again next year. His home is in. Oregon. 
LEE MATTHEWS. 

"Matt " is another contribution of the far West, and his work on the squad has been highly commended by all the critics; at Pittsburg he was easily the star performer. Time after time he baffled the opposing ends and half-backs by his brilliant handling of the forward pass. But it is not in this department alone that he shines. His abilitj'^ as a tackier or at piling up interference leaves him without a peer in the West as a defensive end. He is not an Indian except in the figurative sense. He will return next 
year. He hails from Washington. 
JAJIES MALONEY. 

Jimmie came out too late in the season to secure a place on the squad, and was content to alternate at the end positions with Matthews and Collins. He is a fast, snappy plaj'^er, a sure tackier, and is not behind either of the regulars in receiving the 
forward  pass.  He is the  lightest  man  on  
the  team,  weighing only  135 pounds.  He  
will  return  next  year.  
WILL  RYAN.  

^\\\y has been in every game this year, and his plajnng has been characterized by remarkable speed and headvvork. He scored the second touchdown for his team against Michigan after a sensational forty-yard run. Billj'^ can punt some and play quarter-back too, and catches spies at signal practice. 
He will be with us next year. 
SAM DOLAN. 

Sam has been the bulwark of the team during the past three 3'ears, and his work this year has even surpassed the old standard. His place is at tackle. But when Coach Longman was looking about for a man to back up the line, he wanted a man who could tackle hard, and such a man who knew the game thoroughly, and Rosie was-the man for the job. It was Rosie who stood behind our line and stopped the terrific plunges of the heavier Pittsburg backs. It was Rosie who shifted from side to side at Michig*in, encouraging his team­mates and plunging fearlessly into the diffi­cult formations of Yost's men, and it was Rosie again who was picked unanimously for the All-State team. He will be graduated in June, and his loss will be keenh'^ felt. 
JOSEPH COLLINS. 

Collins is a capable, heady player, and held out well air through the season. His work at end was consistent all through, and he was the surest man on the team in receiving forward passes. In this way he was a steady ground-gainer and a valuable addition to the team. Joe is a junior Law man and will return. 


NOTRE DAME 
EDWARD LYNCH. 

"Copper" received and merited universal recognition as All-State center, and is one of the surest passers in the West. He is not a star, but is- probably the most con­sistent pla3-er on the team. He is strong in defensive work and can always be depended on. Much of the success of some very clever punting this year was due to his skill and judgment. "Copper" will graduate this year. 
DONALD HAMILTON. 

Hamilton's work at quarterback was one of the wonders of a wonderful team. His speed and sureness in directing plays in the Michigan- game won favorable comment from Walter Camp. He is sure in handling the ball and accurate in forward passes. He is a spectacular player and runs well in the open field. He is clever in returning punts. He developed into a good place kicker before the end of the season. His field goal from the 45-yard line in the Wabash game was one of the prettiest kicks of the year. This is his second year on the team. 
WrLLIA]M SCHMITT. 

Schmitt developed into a fast, strong pla3'er—the best utilitj'- man on the squad. He is good on defense and does fine work in hitting the line. His work at full-back against Miami was a feature of the game. He has played in the same position against Wabash, and contributed materially' to pile up the score. "Bill" finishes this 3-ear. 
PETER DWYER. 

Pete has been the hard-luck man on the team. Earh- in the year he received injuries which have remained with him all through the season; keeping him oiit of most of the games, and forcing him to quit the games in w hich he started. He is one of the best defensive placers on the squad, and, like Matthews, is a vicious tackier. To the fact that he plays so hard his injuries are attributed. In the few games in which he 
play^ed hecritics in tHe will be  \\ on favor with manyheir choice for all-star back next vear.   of elev  the ens.  
ALBERT  KELLEY.  

"Red " was not out for the early practices, but when the call for men for the scrubs was sounded a few weeks before the Michigan game, he was one of the first to report. In the first few scrimmages he gave great promise as a back-field man, and Coach 

SCHOLASTIC 
>85 

Longman was not slow to recognize his ability. He proved a timely substitute when Ryan was forced through injuries to qiiit his position. He plaj-ed in p^rt of the Miami game, and earned his letter in the game against Wabash, fie will return next year and should be a strong bidder for a regular 
position in the back-field. '^"" 
JOHN DUFFY. 

John was a victim of circumstances. During his three years on the team he has developed an aptitude at any position. With the possible exception of the quarter-backs, he has filled the bill as substitute in every other position. He has plenty of speed for the back-field and is not too light to hold 
his ow^n in the line.  He will be graduated  
in June.  
LUKE  KELLY.  

Luke is another man who is able to take any position and pla^'- it well. He is a hard, sure tackier and a strong lineman. His w^ork at guard in the Wabash game was a feature. He is not afraid,to leave his feet, and when he does he brings something home 
with him. Luke will return. 
MANAGER CURTIS. 

Manager and Assistant Coach Curtis is a man whose ability and good judgment are so well known that they have become almost proverbial. Some very unjust, and, as later appeared, unwise, criticism of his 
{Conclttded iirom page 1S6.) 
i86 NOTRE DAME 
Notre Dame Scholastic 
PuOashcd J very Saturday during Term Time at the 
University of Notre Dame. 
entered as second-class matter at the Post Office. Notre Dame, Ind. 
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid. 
. Address: THd EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. 
Notre Dame, IndianA 
Notre Dame, Indiana, November 27, 1909. 
Board of Editors. 
PETER E. HEBERT, '1 0 GEORGE J. FI.XXIGAX, '1 0 
DEXIS A. MOURISOX, '10 LEO J. CLEARY, ' 1 0 
MICHAEL A. M.\THIS,'10 LEO C. MCELROY, '10 
THO.M.\S A. LAHEY. '11 JOHX C. TULLY, '11 
FRANCIS WENXIXGER, '11 ARTHUR J. HUGHES, '11 
CH.A.RLES MILTXER, '11 THOMAS F. CLEARY, '11 
JOHX F. O'HARA , '12 FREDERICK CARROLL, '12 
—The team that won for Notre Dame the Western Championship in football has dis­banded. The valiant bodj-- of men who donned the moleskins for Hail the Gold and Blue this j-ear And and who through thick and Farewell, thin, through criticism and through victoiy, held together and fought together and helped one another to gain the long-desired laurels, has parted company on the gridiron and will not be seen again as a great Notre Dame machine. It is with a sigh of regret that one witnesses its dispersion at the close of Notre Dame's most successful football season. Taking it all in all, and, with due consideration for the old heroes and credit to the teams that in previous 3ears have bravelj-^ battled and stubborn^ upheld Notre Dame's honor on the gridiron, it must be conceded, and it is admitted gladly and without reserve, that this year's Varsity is the greatest team ever developed at the Universit^^ In the intoxi­cation of its great victories and in the excitement of congratulation, there is one point which is apt to be overlooked, but which appeals to the student of men cis uppermost: this year's team is an aggrega­tion of individuals, and if it. worked well 



SCHOLASTIC 

as a machine—end few machines harmonize more perfectly^—it w-as because each man put the best of his individuality'^ into his work, and considered his team-mates as well as himself We who pride ourselves on a personal acquaintance with Notre Dame's ]Dlayers were happy to recognize on the field the characteristics for which we esteem them and the qualities which make us love them. The Gold and Blue team of 1909 has disbanded and its wonderful record has become histor3% but the memor3^ of the nun who composed the team will ever be cherished in the hearts of the lox-al sons of Notre Dame. To Coach Longiiian who.*-e name has become famous in Western football, to Manager Curtis whose wi.^e arrangement of the schedule is known and appreciated, to the whole team collectively and individually', we extend the heartiest congratulations and good Avishcs. 
—Mr. Yost said of the Michiijan-Notre Dame game in the Record Herald of last Monda3'^: " You must recognize the fact that 
we went into the game caring  
Mr. Yost  little whether we won or lost.  '  
"Didn't Care."  Shortly  after  that  Michigan- 
Notre  Dame  srame  Mr. Yo>t  
said: "What  makes  me  so  dog-gone(F mad  

is that we might have won. Those are the w^orst kind of games to lose. They leave a worm in the heart to gnaw and gnaw. 
0 I don't know, I'm sick and tired of the whole business; it certainly is discouragin.<r. 1 take off my hat to the Irishmen. They are regular Indians. I was afraid of them because the\' have all the qu.tlites of great football players." And 3et .Mr. Yost didn't care. Mr. Yost is a good coach, a good man with a nice sense of the comical. Some evening during the long winter months, when the memories ot football are no more, he will enjo3' in his own quiet w^ay the humor, b3' comparison, of these two statements. And every lover of good fellowship and good sport ^ ill enjo3' the joke with him. Apart from victory- or defeat, which is in realit3' a minor consideration, one regrets to find a coach of such well-known abilit3' as Mr, Yost descend to these schoolboy tactics which can serve no good purpose except to awaken the bumorons sense. 
Tliis cartoon is tbe concept of the celebrated cartoonist Packard for Notre Dame. 
ss!9S'RSRn:s;sss;sKcsiace9ffl)Esi«Mi!SiHBBB^^ ••OMUmiMiMlill—lUM s^c 
i88 NOTRE DAME 
(Continued on page ISS.) 

schedule of games was heard at the loegin­ning of the season, particularlj'^ with refer­ence to .the Pittsburg game. The w^isdom displayed in picking the games is now^ so patent that criticism is silenced and congrat­ulations are in order. His work with the second team was of the usual high order that is expected and alwaj's received from 
Curtis,  and  a  full  share  in  the  glorj'  of  
obtaining  the  Western  Champi onship  is  
due  Mr. Curtis.  

COACH FRANK LONGMAN. 

With the great success of the team, and its glorious string of victories going down in the history of Notre Dame, one name stands out which will be linked with the 


SCHOLASTIC 
memory of his great team as long as the University stands. It is that of Frank Longman. However great have been the achievements of the team, its greatness must reflect in full upon the coach. True, he began the season with an unusual stock of material—an aggregation of already strong plaj'^ers. But other coaches have had great players and great advantages, and have failed to turn out great teams. 
Anyone who is versed in the science of football or w^ho has a know^ledge of the history of the game will not deny that a great team never existed without a coach, and that a team composed of the greatest individual stars of the gridiron, if not properly coached, would be helpless before an eleven made up of even mediocie players properly coached and trained to play to­gether. It is the facult3'^ of making a team or a machine rather than making individual plaj'crs that measures the efiicienc3'^ of a coach, and in this department Longman excels. Notre Dame had. eleven great pla3-ers, and out of the eleven Longman made a great team, — the team beat Michigan. 
* * 

Too much credit can not be given to the men who received the hard knocks and sacri­ficed their own interests to train the Varsity men in offensive and defensive work. The second team of this 3'ear was small nuiner­ically, but its spirit more than made up for this. The team under other conditions would have shone brilliantly,- but. was entirely eclipsed by the phenomenal strength of the first team. Brennan is a good, sure passer, and is almost sure of a berth next 3'^ear. Ennis and Bergman, though light, are fast, head3'^ pla3'ers and fearless tacklers. They should form good back-field and end material for next 3'^ear's Varsity. Moriart3', Attley and Freeze were late in reporting, but showed up well in back-field and line. Murphy was a good lineman, but w^as put out of the game early in the season by injuries. McGrath, a fast, snappy player, was out of the game part of the season with injuries. Dumphy and Williams are steady, consistent men, and fit in well all around. Figel and Roth are hard workers and deserve a great deal of credit for honest effort and insistence, J. F. O'H. 
MOTRE DAME SCROLASflC 
There is no more talk about a post­season game with Minnesota. 
Query:  What  is  a  conference?  
*  
»  *  
In  the  flush. of  victory  and  the  over­ 

indulgence in championships, let it.not be forgotten that Corby also won. 
* * * 
There seems to be some truth to the state­ment that there is a Big Two in the West that can justlj^ dictate football to the Big Eight. 
* * 
Were Notre Dame to play Yale, what would be the outcom.e ? Of all the foolish questions! 
* * * 
One of the strongest and most sportman­like teams in the West is that of the Michigan Agricultural College, a fact which papers seem to have somewhat overlooked. 
* * * 
If you are one of a Big Two you are half: if you're one of the Big Eight you are only one-eighth. 
* 
NOTRE DAME, 0; MARQUETTE, 0.—And so we are still the undefeated Champions of the West. 

^^*' 
The Immortals. 
EDIVARDS 
MILL E R COLLIN S MAT T HEWS KELLY DWYE R MALONEY S C HMITT VAUG H AN RY A N DIM MICK P HILLBROOK HAM I LTON 
b o LAN 
LYNCH 
SCRUB S 
The Gambel Co. Concert. 

One of the most acceptable concert pro­grams heard in Washington Hall this year w^as that rendered by the trio of artists com­posing the Gambel Concert Company on last Saturday. Mr. Ernest Gambel, singularly gifted with a rare quality of voice, did justice to his past reputation in every number he ofifered. One can hardly choose between his rendition of difficult numbers or the exquisite expression he puts into the old English bal­lads. Miss Page, as a violinist, is far beyond the usual concert soloist performing on that instrument. There is a voice and an emotion in every throb the strings give forth beneath her magic touch. Miss Page is truly a gifted artist. Mr. Otto Stuermer performed very creditably on the piano, and his selections won well-merited applause. 
Local Items, 

—The annual cross-country run, held dar­iiig the Wabash game last Saturday, was won by Scholl, in 31:50, with Jennings second and Johnston third. The wind and cold made the running extremely difficalt. 
—The Deane Steam Pump Co., Holyoke, Mass., desires to be placed in communication with a graduate of the mechanical engineering course at Notre Dame, who has had several years of practical experience and would be willing to consider an advantageous offer. 
—Features of next week's SCHOLASTIC will be the account of the 0-0 game with Marquette, a report of the.Corby-Brownson game, in w'hich the former won the Interhall Championship, the selection of an All-Inter­hall team, and an account of the reception given the Western Champions on their 
return from Milwaukee. —A committee of class presidents has undertaken to pay a w^orthy tribute to the team that won the Western Championship. The intention is that a banquet be given the victors by the entire body of collegiate students. The object is a most laudable one and the initiators of the movement shonld have the loyal support and co-operation of every student who is proud of the team's record. —The following from the editorial page 



190 NOTRE DAME 
of the Catholic Transcript of Hartford, 
Connecticut is pleasant reading. 
"Notre Dame Universit3'^ takes the lead 
among Catholic schools of learning in 
providing a course in aviation. Several 
engines have been built and types of flying 
machines used by^ successful aviators studied. 
The biplane is the favorite out at Notre 
Dame. Aerial navigation is the coming 
thing, and it is gratifying to note that at 
least one Catholic college is taking time by 
the forelock, and preparing to meet the 
needs of the age as thev arise." 
Athletic Notes. 
NOTRE DAME, 3S ; WABASH, 0. 

Another football adorns the shelf in the 
trophy room, and on its sides in glowing-
letters is written Wabash, 0; Notre Dame, 38. 
It means that on November 20th, 1909, our 
old friends from the Down state college came, 
saw^, and v^'^ere conquered on Cartier Field, 
and the decorated oval is preserved to 
commemorate one more victory for the '09 
Eleven. 
The game last Saturday, while it was not the best game seen on Cartier Field, was not without its fine points. In the history of our contests with Wabash it is noticeable that regardless of the showing made by that team against other teams it has always been a strong opponent for Notre Dame, and it was because of this and the crippled condition of our own team that we looked to their coming this year with a tinge of anxiety. 
Vaughan and Ryan were both out of the line-up with injuries received in the Miami game, and Dimmick, who has been out since the Michigan game with a bruised shoulder, 
w-as also on the side-lines. 
Philbrook kicked off to Wabash in the first half, and for the first few minutes of play neither side seemed to have an advan­tage; finally, it was Notre Dame's ball on their own forty-yard line. Two downs brought it past the center of the field and first dow^n. The next tw^o downs netted six yards, when Hamilton executed a perfect field-goal from the forty-five yard line. 
, It was the turning-point in the game, and though Wabash maintained a stiff defense throughout, it was evident that their hope 

SCHOLASTIC 
of victory was gone, and all that remained 
was a possibility of keeping down the score. 
However, the three points served as a goad 
to the Notre Dame chargers, and spurred 
on by constant encouragement the3r tore 
through the Wabash line almost at will, ran 
their ends, and worked the forward pass to 
great advantage. The score at the end of 
the half was Notre Dame, 27; Wabash, 0. 
The second half started out much like the 
first, and again it looked as if the scoring 
was over. The Little Giants' line, which in 
the first half seemed helpless against the 
onslaught of their heavier opponents, braced 
w^onderfully, and for a time Notre Dame 
was unable to gain consistently. Only for 
a time, however, and before ten minutes of 
play had elapsed, Miller, Kelley and Schmitt 
were tearing down the field on long end 
runs and line bucks: Wabash was completely 
swamped. Collins and Maloney at the ends 
played havoc with their formations, and all 
attempts to gain through the line were 
fruitless. In the middle of the half. Miller 
was replaced by Moriarty, and Collins gave 
place to Matthews. 
Hamilton surprised the crowd by his successful goals from the field, some of which were made at difficult angles. Hopkins, the Wabash left tackle, was injured early in the game and w^as obliged to quit the field. 
The Line-Up and Summarj'. Notre Dame Wabash Malonej' L. E. Cochran, Elliot Philbrook L. T. Bare Kelley L. G. McHeyl Lynch C. . L. Lambert Edwards R. G. Elberts Dolan R. T." Cochran, Ryan, Hopkins Collins R. E. Cravens Hamilton Q. H. Lambert, Hawkins Miller, Moriarty L. H. Panhallegan, Yount Red Kelley R. H. Cunningham Schmitt ' F. B. • Markle 
Touchdowns—Edwards, Schmitt, Philbrook, Miller (2), Red Kelley. Goals from touchdown—Hamilton (5). Goal from field —Hamilton. Umpire—Easterline, Purdue. Referee—Haddon, Michigan. Head linesman—Gohier, Fra^inlin. Time of halves—^Thirty minutes. 
Championship Gossip. 

BY HEK (Chicago Tribune).—Nothing, it seems, now remains to make the disparagement of Notre Dame's victory over Michigan convincing but the declaration that Michigan never did play Notre Dame. 
* • 

SPORT THOUGHTS (Indianapolis Neics). — Those New York critics, in overlooking Notre Dame, came about as near hitting the mark as they usually do when their opinions have to do with the west. 
However, it might be expected that those eastern­ers would find it hard, extremely hard, to give full credit to a western team that defeated a western team that defeated one of the east's sti-ongest. 

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Boston American. November 17.—Here's a little past performance dope which may help some of you football fans figure out how to invest your money on the Yale-Harvard game. 
Dartmouth and Princeton played a 6to 6 tie. Har­vard beat Dartmouth 12 to 3. Yale beat Princeton 17 to 0. What chance has Harvard with Yale? 
Notre Dame. Indiana, beat Michigan 11 to 3. Michigan beat Syracuse 47 to 0. Syracuse held Yale down to a 17 to 0 score. What chance would Yale have against Notre Dame? Don't all answer at once. 
* 
* » 

South Bend Xews. November 23.—At the close of what is pronounced the best football season since the lules were changed in the winter of 1905-6 Notre Dame is recognized by the authorities as the cham­pion of the west. Eckersall, the Chicago football expeit and critic, while admitting that Notre Dame must be considered the logical champion because of the defeat of Michigan, qualifies the statement by saying that "Coach Yost's players were not. at their best when they met Notre Dame and if the two teams were to meet next Saturday Michigan in all prob­ability would be the winner." 
This is an exceedingly illogical conclusion and, though perhaps not intended, is unjust to Notre Dame. At the time these two teams met and Notre Dame demonstrated its superiority in all branches of the game, straight football, forward passing, trick playing, attack and defense, both had had the same opportunities for development and there is no rea­son to presume hat subsequent improvement was not common to botl. In the opinion of those who have watched Notre Oame and are competent to .ludge the team has made material impiovement since it rubbed Michigan's nose in the dust of its own grid­iion and is as capable of repeating the feat today as it was on that happy occasion. 
The "dope" is that Notre Dame has not been de­feated this year. If the games played had included the members of the conference and the results had been the same Notre Dame would have been cham­pion by performance, but not being a member of the conference must accept a "dope" championship, which follows the defeat of Michigan. While not as satis­factory to the team the honor is as great as though every team in the conference had been defeated seria­tim. Notre Dame is recognized as being in a class by itself among the teams of the state and to rank with the best large university teams east or west. In track athletics and baseball Notre Dame has long occupied a prominent position and now its claim to distinction in football is recognized by all. 
* * * 

D.vMKi, .T. F. SuLLiVAx {GMcago Inter Ocean). November 22).—Decisive proof of the superiority of the west over the east and the humiliation of the "Big Eight"—The Western Conference—were the re­sults of the games of Saturday, which practically ended the football season througaout the country. 
The games also settled the championship of the cast—^Yale taking the honors bj' its victory over Harvard. Thej- failed, however, to give he final word on the championship of the West, although they de­termined that none of the Western Conference elev­ens can claim better than fourth place in the cham­pionship race. 
The game that is to be played at Milwaukee Thanksgiving Day between. Marquette and Notre Dame is what leaves the Western Championship still in the air, with Notre Dame, Michigan and Marquette all possible claimants for first place in the West. A victory for Notre Dame over Marquette, and particu­larly a decisive one will settle the possession of the championship title beyond a question. 
Such a victory' will mean that Notre Dame has the strongest team in the West, and probably in the entile country. It has defeated Michigan by a deci­sive score and the Wolverines conquered Minnesota, which is in a class by itself in the Western Confer­ence, by an equally decisive one. That .disposes of all the Western Conference teams as far as Notre Dame is concerned, but that is not all. Michigan also conquered Pennsylvania, which has not been de­feated by a single Eastern team, and Notre Dame. therefore, ranks far above Pennsylvania. 
Moreover, the Wolverines defeated Syracuse by a far bigger score than Yale was able to run up against the New Yorkers, and Notre Dame has, therefore, a right to claim it has a better team than Yale. Of course, the East, according to its custom, will calm­ly claim the championship of the entire country for Yale, but there is no reason why the West shouldn't do as much for Notre Dame. .It is by no means uncertain that either Notre Dame or Michigan could defeat Yale today, especially as the Blue showed it could not gain through Harvard. 
But there is a chance that Marquette may defeat Notre Dame Thursday and this would complicate matters in the West somewhat. Michigan defeated Marquette and if the Milwaukee Catholics defeat the South Bend ones, then INIichigan and Notre Dame would have a double tie. Michigan would probably be given a shade the best of it if such a condition should be brought about. 
A Marquette victory is by no means improbable, but the chances are in favor of Notre Dame. If the Hoosiers win. the ranking of the principal Western teams for the season of 1909 will then be as follows: 
1 Notre Dame 7 Illinois 
2 Michigan S Indiana 
3 IMarquette 9 Iowa 
4 Minnesota 10 Northwestern 
5 Chicago 11 Wabash 
6 Wisconsin 12 Purdue 

Of these teams, the first four are in a class by themselves. Chicago, Wisconsin, Illinois and Indiana are another, and the remaining teams are in a third. 
» * * 

W-vr/rEK H. ECKKKS-VLI. (Chicago Tribune) Nov. 22. —In the West Notre Dame must be considered the logical champion, because the Catholics defeated iMichigan earlier in the season and the Wolverines in turn trounced Minnesota, the champion of the Western Conference colleges. 
Notre Dame easily defeated Wabash in a manner so decisive that it goes a long way in demonstrating the strength of the Catholics this year. 

» * * 

Cincinnati Post. November 22.^The football sea­son of 1909 was practically brought to a close Satur­day when Yale and Harvard fought the deciding game in the East, and IMichigan and Minnesota elev­ens battled in the West. 
Notre Dame has a clean claim to the title on her season's performance. Notre Dame won from Michi­gan. Michigan defeated Minnesota . and Minnesota defeated Chicago! The other Western teams are never considered serious factors in the race. 
* * * 

Cincinnati Times-Star, November 15.—Yale will ' meet Harvard next Saturday, and the winner of that game will be heralded throughout the East as the football champion of the country. And the victor In that greatest of all contests of the gridiron year will undoubtedly deserve the football championship of the East. But out here in the West there are a couple of football elevens that w^ould like nothing better than an opportunity to mix. up with the win­ner of that Yale-Harvard match in a battle royal for the pigskin sovereignity. Those two teams rep­resent Minnesota and Notre Dame college in Indiana. 


192 NOTRE DAME 
Ine West is more nearly the equal of the East on 
the gridiron this year than it has eA-er been. There 

were two great East-West contests Saturday, and the 
West came out on top in one of them and tied the 
other, ilichigan outplayed Pennsylvania and won 
out 32 to 6. Chicago made it even up G to 6 with 
Cornell. 
Of course, neither Pennsylvania nor Cornell are 
as strong as Yale and Harvard, but then neither are 
Chicago and ^Michigan as good as Notre Dame and 
Minnesota, for Notre Dame licked Michigan 11 to 3 
and iliunesota beat Chicago 20 to 6. So there are 
only comparative scores to go by in rating the best 
in the AYest with the best in the East. And this is 
rather unsatisfactory. But it's the best to be had. 
So here you are. 
Compare :Minnesota with Harvard via Cornell. Chicago and Cornell ])layed a tie. Harvard beat Cor­nell 18 to 0. Hence. Minnesota's 20 to 6 Aictory oA'er Chicago doesn't make jMiunesota size up half-bad as a worthy rival of proud Cambridge. 
The dojie comparing Notre Dame with Yale is more roundabout, with Princeton furnishing the link that gives an indirect line of comparison. Lafayette beat Princeton 6 to 0. Lafayette tied Pennsylvania 6 to 6. Michigan beat Pennsylvania last Saturday 12 to 6. And Notre Dame beat IMichigan the previous Saturday 11 to o. Yale trounced Princeton last Sat­urday 17 to 0. Does that make the Indianiaus of Notre Dame look puny beside the sons of old Eli? Not by a long shot. 
And yet. when all's said and done, it must be acknowledged that Yale seems to haA'^e just a bit the better of everybody else and that Yale would rule a favorite in the betting against Minnesota or Notre Dame just as against .Johnny Harvard, but the odds wouldn't be very lopsided. It's a pity Yale or Har­vard doesn't meet either of the two best in the West. 
• * * * 
BL-VIXK PATTOX {Iitdianapolis Star), November 22. —Notre Dame University can now rightfully boast of the champion football eleven of the West. The de­cisibe victory on last Saturday of Minnesota at the hands of Yost's ^Michigan University eleven gives the up-state collegians the call in the title. Notre Dame won a clean-cut game from the IMichiganders, 11 to 3, and since the Gophers established an undisputed championship claim among the conference schools, the result of beating Wisconsin and Chicago, the Catholics can not be euchered out of their grounds. 
Although a number of Chicago critics see nothing to it but ^Michigan for the Western championship, contending that Yost'e men were simply caught nap­])ing and in poor form when Notre Dame turned the trick two weeks ago, results have to go for i-esults and the latter eleven has the drop on all o])ponents for the championship. Aside from defeating jVIichi­gan Notre Dame took the jNIichigan "Aggies" down the line for a 17 to 0 score and this team in turn defeated Marquette 10 to 0. ]\larquette meets Notre Dame next Thursday and this will give the Catholics a third opportunity to demonstrate the sujieriority of their athletes over the Michigan men. 
It has been many years since a state institution has won such a great distinction as a Western cham­pionshi]) on the gridiron, and rival schools even in the State of Indiana are glad to see the coveted title land within the borders of Hoosiedoom. 
The rating of Indiana college teams is as follows: 
1.
 Notre Dame UniA'^ersity. 

2.
 Indiana University. 

3.
 Wabash College. 4.. Purdue UuiA'crsity. .5. Rose Polytechnic Institute. 6, 7 and S. Tie—DePauw University, Earlham Col­


lege and Butler College. '. 9. Hanover College. -10. Franklin College. 


SCHOLASTIC 
Indianapolis J^'eics. NoA'^ember 2.—With all the 1909 football games bearing on the sectional cham­pionships played. Yale and Notre Dame are proclaim­ed the respectiA'^e champions of the East and West. Neither team Avas defeated during the season, and the records of the eleA'ens indicate that they are among the strongest that ever represented American col­leges. Yale's record probably is the better, as she has Avon her title in the final game of the season and from her strongest riA^al, Haiward. On the other hand Notre Dame clinched her title by defeating Michigan tAvo weeks ago. It Avould be decidedly un­fair to detract from the performances of the Notre Dame elOA^en this year, howeA'er. Coach Longman has a Avouderful team that has done Avell eA'erything that has been asked of it. It Avent to Pittsburg and defeated the poAverful UniA'^ersity of Pittsburg elcA'en. that had beaten Carlisle, and minus tAvo of its best men, it decisiA-elj' trounced Michigan at Ann Arbor. One Aveek later IMichigan Avent to Philadelphia and defeated PennsylA-ania, that had shoAvn good form one Aveek previous by running up a big score OA^er Carlisle. 
Notre Dame can not be denied, and although the football supremacy of the East has generally been conceded, it looks as if the West has this year de­veloped one elCA'^en that is capable of holding its OAvn Avith the champion of the East. Com]jaratiA'-e scores do not make Yale appear one whit stronger than Notre Dame. * * * * Walter camp, the former Yale player and well-known Eastern critic. saAv the Michigan-Notre Dame game and praised the latter highly. He pronounced Miller the best halfback he had seen this yeai-. 
NotAA'ithstandiug Michigan's defeat at the hands of Notre Dame, Coach Yost, of the WolA'erines, is claiming the Western championship title. Yost's statements haA^e the sound of a sorry Avail and they are not expected to be taken seriously. Michigan played Notre Dame after the latter had beaten the strong Michigan Agricultural College team by a big score and had also beaten the powerful Pittsburg team after the latter's A-ictory oA^er Cai-lisle. i\Iichi­gan had plenty of Avarning that Notre Dame was strong and Michigan used her full strength against Notre Dame, AA-hile Dwyer and EdAvards, tAVO Notre Dame mainstays, did not get into the contest on ac­count of injuries. The Michigan Aggies Avon over Marquette, 10 to 0, while IVIichigau defeated Mar­quette 6 to .5. Notre Dame will play JMarquette Thursday and she is confident of running up a big score on the strong Wisconsin elcA'en in the Mihvau­kee game. 
" * * * Cincinnati Times-Star, NoA'ember 22.—But isn't Notre Dame the real thing out West Avith incident­ally considerable shoAV for disputing Avith Yale in any argument as to AA'hich is really the greatest football eleven of the year? ilichigan licked Minne­sota Saturday 15 to 6, and thereby became champion of the Western Conference. '"Conference," mind you. But Avhen it comes to the championship of the Aviiole West, there can he no gainsaying the claims that Notre Dame up there in Indiana is It Avith a capital "I," and those Avho saAv Notre Dame beat Michigan 11 to 3 the Aveek after Michigan had swamped Syra­cuse '43 to 0, say that 11 to 3 only represents by about one-half Avhat the real scoi-e should have been. Notre Dame should haA'^e had at least two more touch dOAvns, hut the officials of the game saved Michigan twice by penalties against the Indianiaus. So, if Notre Dame.is that much better than-Michi­gan, which can swamp Syracuse and Avhich heat Pennsylvania "12 to 6, Notre Dame must be taken seriously. Walter Camp, the greatest football expert in the Avorld, is taking Notre Dame seriously. The report is that he is picking Miller, one of the Noti-e " Dame halves, for his All-American eleven. 


-~--·----:_........-··--,...------·~--·-~-: ~:r--···--·
!'-····­
"' 
-------------------------~------____:::-:::-----------' --:,-­
---:i 
~ 
~ 
(tl 
3 
9 
(') 
fdo £­
! I 9~
~ 

cP--\>
-1 -·· 
~ 

t.o o~ 
REV. J. C. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C. 
Prcsidr11! of U11i'ZN·rsi!y of 1Volrc Dm1u· 






Winners of Monograms, 1910 
RALPH C, DIMICK GEORGE PHILBROOK 
Gapta'in an<l 'Packle 'l'aekle 
JOSF.PH COLLINS LUKE KELLEY 
It:nrl 
Guc"'d 
. LEE MATHEWS CJ·!ARLES DORAIS 
Ifolj Rae/;: o_,,arter Back 
WALTER CLINNIN ARTHUR CLil'l'INGER 
Halj Beeck 7,·,,u Rack 
JOHN STANSFIELD
TUIWIS 0AAS 
Gum·<I.
Grrnnl 
CHAS. CRAWLEY WILLIAM MARTIN 
Encl En<I. 
C. McGRATH To:.r FOLEY 
F11UHrr"f.: Center 
NOTRE DAME SQUAD, I91 O 
Varsity Review 
SEPTEMBER 12th the first call for football recruits
0 N 
was issued. Twelve men reported, and the squad steadily 
increased until it numbered thirty-five. 
On October 8th the usual game with Olivet opened 
the season for Notre Dame. The same old tale, "Olivet 
Swamped by Notre Dame," tells the story. The Notre 
Dame Tean:i looked good individually, but lack of team work and fumbling cost Notre Dame several touchdowns. Almost the entire Squad was used, and 'the strength of the 1910 team partially realized. 
The famed Buchtel team, from Akron, Ohio, with their goal line uncrossed and several good scalps at their belt, came to Cartier Field. Fifty-one to 0 was score, and all the joy on Notre Dame's side. 
The team was beginning to get into real Notre Dame form when they struck one of these inexplicable mid-season slumps. At Lansing, Mich., on October 8th, out-lucked and out-played, they were beaten by M. A. C. 17 to 0. Beaten in the first game that a Notre Dame football team has lost in two years. The characteristic Notre Dame fight was lacking, and with fevv exceptions the men played a loggy, listless game. 
That Notre Dame had learned her lesson was proven when, two weeks 
later, the team came back with a slashing attack against the strong Rose Poly 
team. They rolled up 41 points to Rose Poly's 3, and "Hez" Clark pronounced 
the Notre Dame team one of the strongest in the Vvest. 
\i\Tith the season drawing to a close, the team was vvorkecl night and clay per­
fecting their players for the crucial struggle with Marquette on Thanksgiving 
Day. 
November 19th came, and the team played their final game on the home 
grounds with Ohio Northern, the latter falling before the powerful rushes of 
Notre Dame. The ball was carried over the goal line and kicked between the 
posts often enough to make the final count 47 to 0. 
Arriving at. IVIilwaukee the clay before Thanksgiving, the Notre Dame Team 
found the 1Vfarquette field three inches cleep in mud. Despite rain during the 
night and the next morning, game was called at 3 p. rn. 
Notre Dame kicked off to Marquette's twenty-yard line. In two rushes 
Marquette failed to gain a yard, and pnntecl on the third clown. Through the 
entire first half Marquette was forced to play on the defensive. Notre Dame 
made repeated tries for goals from the field, but were unable to score by this means. Late in the first half, on a blocked :i\farqnette pass and a recovered ball, a Notre Dame man staggered over the goal line for what proved to be Notre Dame's only score. \i\iith three minutes remaining in the first half, l\!Iarquette kicked to Notre Dame. In t\vo rushes Notre Dame gained twenty yards, and then kicked to l\!Iarquette's twenty-five-yard line, where the ball was recovered by a Notre Dame man. Time was called a fevv seconds later, and another chance for Notre Dame to score was lost. Notre Dame started the second half by kicking off to Marquette. For the first time during the game, Niarquette showed that they could gain, and Notre Dame was slowly forced back. vVith the ball on the six-inch line, the Marquette full~back fumbled, but three :Marquette men recovered the ball behind Notre Dame's goal line. Neither team scored again, and the game ended with both teams fighting hard on Notre 
Dame's thirty-five-yard line. 
Scoring 192 points to their opponents' 25, the 1910 Notre Dame team 
deserves to be classed with the best in the \Vest. They Jost but one game, and 
that to a teai11 unbeaten on their own grounds in nine years. 
Oct. .8th-Olivet vs. N. D., at Notre Dame. 0., O; N. D., 48. Oct. 22nd-Buchtel "'s. N. D., at Notre Dame. B., 0; N. D., 51. Oct. 29th-NL A. C. 'i)S. N. D., at Notre Dame. M. A. C., 17; N. D., 0. Nov. 12th-Rose Poly vs. N. D., at Terre Haute. R. P., 3; N. D., 41. Nov. 19th-Ohio Northern 'l.!S. N. D., at Notre Dam. 0. N., O; N. D., 47. Nov. 24th-Marquette vs. N. D., at Milwaukee. M., 5; N. D., 5. 

WALSH HALL TEAM, 1910 
BROWNSON HALL TEAM, 1910 


INTER-HALL CHAMPIONS 
CORBY HALL TEAM 
Inter-Hall Review 
WHEN Corby beat Sorin 12 to 6 in the deciding game for the Hall Championship, the most brilliant Hall football series ever held at Notre Dame was ended. From the opening game to the final every game \Vas fought to the bitter encl. The St. Joseph Team, handicapped by lack of material and time to practice, were unable to finish the season. In the few games they played they fought hard and might have been contenders for championship honors had they completed their schedule. Brownson fought hard in every game, but were overcome by older and more experienced teams. vValsh, with the lightest team in the league, played brilliant ball and were the most successful users of the fonvarcl pass seen on Cartier Field during the year. From the start of the season it looked as if the final fight would be between Sorin and Corby. \i\fith older and more experienced men they were easily the class of the Inter-Hall Teams. Good all-around ends were scarce. Fish of Sorin, while not playing an encl this year, is the best Inter-Hall encl at Notre Dame, fast, strong, and a wonder on an encl-around play. For the other end, Campbell of Sorin is given the preference over Sommers of Corby and Boujan of \Valsh because of his speed and kicking ability. O'Rourke of Brownson was the best tackle of the year. A power on defense, fast getting clown under punts, and a fighter all the way. Gutherest of Corby is too good a man to keep off of any team, and is given the other tackle. Moritz of Corby stands in a class by himself for the guard position. Hicks of vValsh, who played a steady, consistent game all season, would make a good running mate for Moritz. At center, Hyle of Corby, although light, played a brilliant defensive game, and his passing was excellent. Vv'ith Fish shifted to encl, Mehlern of Corby is the first choice for half-back; fast, a brilliant open-field runner and the best punter in the University, he would be a tower of strength to any team. Howard of St. Joseph, the other choice for half-back, besides being a po·werful line bucker is the best defensive back playing Inter-Hall football. For foll-back, Jones of Corby outclassed his competitors, and should be a strong contender for Varsity honors next year. For quarter-back, Hugg of Vv'alsh ran his team in brilliant style, ancl would be the best man to handle an All-Star team. 
), 
l 
All Inter-Hall Teams 
First Team-
Ends-Fish, Sorin; Campbell, Sorin. Tackles-0'Rourke, Brownson; Gutherest, Corby. Guards-lVIoritz, Corby; Hicks, 'Naish. Center-Hyle, Corby. Half-backs-Mehlem, Corby; I-:Toward, St. Jo. Quarter-back-Hugg, \i\Talsh. Full-back-]ones, Corby. 
Second Team­
Ends-Sommers, Corby; Boujan, \Valsh. Tackles-Yuncl, Corby; Hebner, Corby. Guards-Rubio, Sorin; Shannon, Sorin. Center-'Nhite, vValsh. Half-backs-Larkin, ·walsh; McNichol, ·walsh. Quarter-back-McAllen, Sorin. 
Full-back-0':-Jea!, Brownson. 
MAYER & t.llLLER co.. PRltlTERS 341-351 DEAl!llOAN ST., cmr,Ai]I) 





Rt-:\. ·1. C1n '11.1n-, c.:-...C. I ic"I' l'rnidr11/ 
Pr1••i<lrnl .. llh/11/lc• llottrd 
l'1w1•. \\'. E. Bh1'1Tz l'ROF. \\")1. FERRET.I, 
S111·1•11/01·y ll/1/1•fi1· )l,,,,,·tl f '/111/r·111f1n , llhl1•/fr Jlu<rrf/ 
){ IW. \I \TTllEW S< Ill \l.\C Ht;R, cS.L RI.\". Jo:-;1t l'll ~l.\Gl ' l Rf:, C.S.C. 
l/1•mlwr llhl,·lir /ltH11·tf l/1•t11lwr .. tl/tl1·lir llonrtf 
RI.\'. joq:p11 Bl R"1:, C.~.L. BROTIU: R ,\J,ll.\:\ 
l/1•mlwr . lthl1•li1· /11m,-,J .l/1•111hf'1' .. lthlt•lit• /lorr1·d 
::\oTHE D. \~11~ Gn1:-; \SllJ\t 
j A .\JES liOPE \\'\l'l'l-:R DLM \:\ 
Jfa.1Hl!/t•r of .llhf,~lit•)C . I :tiix/1111( .\ftttl((f/t'I' uf . I tllfto/£1•' 
1'11,\NK Loi-.c;,1.\:-. 
''""''" 
C OACH LONGMAN is the man 
who came to Notre Dame to pilot the great team of l 909 to the W estem championship ; he is the same individual, who, by his conscientious and persevering methods, has won his way into the heart of every Notre Dame man. Longman was the man behind the gun again this season. 
"Cor" LYX< u 
~I HAi°Mr111f ( 'otH•/1 
Winners of Monograms, 1910 
R \ 1 1•11 C. Drn H' K Ct-:OIHiE 1'1111. llKOOK f'u11lui11 ((tut 1'fu·/;"IP '/'111•4/1• 
Jo,Hl'll Cor.u:-.s 
f ,'nd (i11t1r1/ 
l.I-:1·: ~l.\TllE\\ ' S C11 .\JU.Es I>o1u1s 
llt1/f lltr•·k l/uurtrr /lurk 
\\'.\1,nrn. C1.1:,:-1:­,\Kn11•1t C1 . 1p1·1~<a: K 
Full /lrrt'k
""'' /llll'k 
Tmu;1s <l,\.\S Jou:-; Sr.\:\ ~'l ' IEI o 
(h1t11·d
(,'1u1nl 
Cl!,\>', l'tl \II l.E\' 
\\II 1.1.\\1 ;\J \ l<'l'IS 
1~·1ul 
1: nt1 
C. i\[< G RXl'll 
) 1'111/ l ltwk ('f•11/1•1· 
NOTRE DAME SQUAD, 1910 
Varsity Review 
:-.rl'TE~ll\I R 12th thl.' tirst call ior football recruib
0 X 
\\a" 1--sucd. I wdYc mL·n n·pnrted. and the squad steadily 
innl'a-.cd until it numlwn•d thirty-fin'. 
C >n ( ktoher ~th thL usual ganw with Oli\'ct openl'd 
the "l'ason ior '\otre ));um·. The --ame old tall'. ··01i, l't 
Swamped hy :\otrc Danw."" tells till• story. The Xotrc 
Daml' Team looked good indi,·icluall). hut Jack of team work and fumblin~ co,..t '\otrc Danw ,..e,·l'ral t1111Chd1m11-.. A I most I he entire Squad \\as u-,1.•cl. and the --tn•ngth oi the j()lO tt·;un partially realizl'd. 
The fanwd lluchtcl team. fro111 \kron. Ohio. with thl'ir goal line uncrossl'd and sl'\eral good --ralps at their hl'lt. came tn Cartier Fidd. Fiit) ·one to 0 was -.con'. and all t111." joy on '\otre Danw".. ..,ide. 
The team \\as beginning to gl'l into real \otrc I)an11.' form "hen they struck one of thl'sc im•:-;plirabk 111id "l'asnn ,.)umps. .\t Lansing. :\Iich.. on Octoh~r 8th. nut-lucked and 11ut-pl;1y1.•(I. the~ wae beaten by :\L _\. l. 17 to 0. Ul'aten in the tir"t gaml' that a Xotn· Dame foothall team has lo,..t in two years. The d1aracll•ristic ;\otrc Dame tight was lacking. anci with few exn·ptions the mcn played a luggy. Ji,tlt "" game. 
That :\'otrl' Dame had karned hl•r )cs,on was prm 1.·n when. two weeks 
later, the team came hack with a slashing attack against the strong Rose Poly 
team They rolkd up 41 point-. to lfo,e Pol)·, 3. and .. I kz"' Clark pronounced 
the .:\olre Danw team olll' oi thl' -.trongest in lht· \ \" l'-,t. 
\\'ith till' ..,1.·a-,011 drawing to a do-.e. the tl'am wa... workl·cl night and clay pl'r­
ferting their players for thl' crncial '-lrug~ll' with .\larqut·tte on ThanksgiYing 
Day. 
Xo\Tlllhl'r 11Jth canll'. and till' tl'am playl·d their 'inal game 11n the home 
groutHb with ( >hio Xorlhl rn. the lattl'r falling hdore the JH>werf11l rushes of 
'\otrt· Daml'. Thl ball "a" carritcl n\'er thl' goal line and kicked hl'lwl'en th1.· 
[><"'!" often c·no11gh to makt• the tinal count 47 to 0. 
ArriYing at .\I ilwaukl'l' thl' day hdo1 e ThanksgiYing. tlw '\otrl' l>ame Team 
found the .\larqttctte lil'ld three inchl'" deep in mud. I>v..pite rain during thl' 
night and the lll'Xt morning. ganw wa" t'alled al .~ p. 111. 
'\otre Daml' kickl'cl off to \larq11cllc0 s l\\"l'llty-yanl line. In l\\'n ru~hl'" 
:\larquctte faikd lo gain a yard. and p1111ted 011 the third do\\ 11. Through till' 
entire first half .\Iarqut'lll' was iorn·d lo play on thl' dden,i\'t'. :\otre Dam1.· 
177429 
mack rcpcakd triL•s for goals from the lil'ld. hut \\l'rl' 11nahle to srort• by this mt•a1is. Late in the lir-.t half. on a blocked \larquette pass ancl a reco\'erecl hall. a :\otn: l>ame man -.tag~t·rul o\'t•r tht· goal lint• for what pro\'t•<i to be \otn· Dame's on!) -;core. \\'ith tlm.•t• minut<.>... tTmaining in tht· first half. \larquctte kidu·d to :\'otre Dame. Jn two rushes \'otre Dame gai1wd twcnt) yard..;, and thtn kickcd to \larquctte's l\n•nty-li,·e-yanl line. where the hall ''a" n·rm·ered by a '\ntrc Daml' man. Time wa-. callt•d a kw -,ecnnd-. later. and another chance ior :\otrl' Danw to ...con.• \\a-. Jo-.t. '\otre Dame -.tarted thl scrond half by kirking off to ~I arqtu:tk. For the fir..,t t imc c\11ring thc game. 
\larquctte showt•d that thty t•oulcl gain. ancl \:otre I);11rn..• was slo\\ ly forced hack. \\'ith tht• hall on th1: -.ix-inch li1w. thl.' \larqut'lk full-hack i111nhled. but thrl'e \farqucllt' men recoY1:r1:d the hall lid1ind :\otre Danll'·., goal lint'. '\either tt•am scored again. and thl' game ended '' ith both tt•ams lighting hard on :'\otrc 1)ame's thirty-Ii Ye-yard line. 
Scoring Jll2 points to lht•ir oppont>nt-.' 2~. the 1'110 '\otre Dame team 
dt''l'rn•..; to ht· da-.-,ed with the he:-t in tht• \\'e-.t. Th1..·y Jo..,t but one game. and 
that to a team 11nheaten on th1..·ir own gru1111d-. in nim• yt·ars. 
Oct. ~th-Olin•t <'S. '\. D .. at '\otre: Dame. 0 .. 0: "\. D .. 4K 
Ot·t. 22nd-l:urhtcl ;s. "\. D .. at '\otrt• Dame. I:.. 0: '\. D.. ~l. 
Oct. 211th \I..\. C. ~·s. ~. D.. at :'\otre Dame. \I. \. C.. Ii; N. D.. 0. 
'\O\'. 12th Rose l'oly ;•s. \'. D .. at Tt•tTl' I fault'. R. !'.. 3; ~. D.. ·H. 
:\o\'. l1Jth Ohio '\orthan ;s. X. D.. at '\otrc Dam. 0. X.. O; \:. D .. 4-i. 
i\o,·. 2-Hh-~larquettt• 7's. '\'. D.. at ~ltlwaukee. ~I .. 3; X. D .. 5.. 
Inter Hall Season 
SORIN I !ALL TEAM, 1910 
ST. JOSEPI I HALL TEAM, 1910 
WALSH HALL TEAM, 1910 
-~· 
BROWNSON HALL TEAM. 1910 
INTER-HALL CHAMPIONS 
CORBY HALL TEAM 
Inter-Hall Review 
\11 
II E>: Corhy heat Sorin 12 to <1 in the deciding game for the V\ I l all Championship. the most brilliant 1lall football serie-. 
eyer held al :'\otre Dame was ended. From the opening 
game to the final en~ry game wa-. fought to tht• hitter encl. 
Tht• ~t. Joseph Tt·am. handicapped by lack oi 
makrial and time to practice. \\'ere unahk to finish the 
season. I11 the few gamt•s they played they iought hard and might ha\ c been contenders ior championship honors had the) completed their ..;chulull•. l\rownson fought hard in cHry game. but \H'rc m·crcome by oldu and mon.• cxperienced tl'ams. \\'al..;h. with tht• lighte:-t t<:am in the league. played brilliant hall and wen.· the mo-.t sttCt'C"siul user-. of thc forward pa-.s seen on Carticr Field during the year. From till' start of the sl·a-.on it looked as if the final light wouId ht• he!\\ t•en Sorin and Corby. \ \ it h olclt•r ancl more experienced llll'n they \\UC t•a....ily the class of till' lnter-I[all Teanh. 
( ;oocl all-around end' wen.· "l'arce. Fi-.h of Sorin. while not playing an encl this year. i" the be:-t Inter-I lall end at Xotrt Dame. fa.;t. -.trong. and a wonder on an l'ncl-around play. For the other t•ncl. Campbell oi ~onn i.; gi,·en the preference m·er Somnwrs of Corby and lloujan of \\ al....h hecau-..e of his speed ancl kicking ability. 
O'Rourkl' of Brownson was the best tackk nf tlw year. i\ pmH·r 011 ddcnst•. 
fa--r getting clown under punt'· ancl a fighter all till' way. Cuthen·...t of Corby 
i, too good a man to kl't p off oi all\ team. and i-. given the other larkle . 
.\loritz of l"orby -..tancl.... in a clas-.. by him-..1.'lf ior the guard po.,ition. rlicb 
of \\'al-..h. who played a ...tt-ady. ron-;i-;tent ganw all sca~on. would make a good 
running mate for .\loritz. 
\t centt·r. Ilyk of Corby. although light. playt·cl a brilliant clcfl'tlsi\'e game. 
and his pa-....ing wa... excellent. 
\\'ith Fi-.h 'hiitec\ to encl. .\khlcm of Corhy i, the fir..,t chokt• ior half-Lack: 
ia-;t. a brilliant open-fielcl nm1wr and the bc..,t p11ntt•r in the l~ nin·r...it'" he would 
he a tcm l't of strength lo any team. l lowarcl of St. Joseph. the otht·r choice for 
half-back. hl·~iclt•s being a pm\'l•rful line bucker i... till' hc-;l dden"i' t' hack playing 
Inter-I Jail football. 
Fnr iull-bat·k. Jone... c1f l 01Jrhy outcla-.,ecl hi-. t'rnnpetitors. and .;houlcl ht• a 
-trung crn1tenck·r ior \'ar....ity hrnwr... next year. 
For quarter-hack. Jlugg oi \\ al-.h ran his team in brilliant styk·. ancl ,,·oulcl 
he the best man to handle an ,\II-Star team. 
All Inter-Hall T eams 
Fir-.t Team­
Encb-Fi-.h. ~orin: Campht·ll. Sorin. Tackles ( >'Rourkl', llrowtl'flll; Cutherest. Corhy. <;uards \I orilz, Corby; 11 irks. \\ alsh. Centcr-1 lyk. Corby. I lalf-bad.-. \ll'111cm. Corby; I Inward. St. Jo. Quarter-hack-1 lugg. \\'alsh. 
Full-hack-J1,nt·.... Corby. 
StTond Team­
l~n<ls-'-,omnH·rs. Corby; lloujan. \\'abh. Tat•klc"· 'l unit. C1 rby: I klnwr. Corby. t ~uard-.--l\11hi1 . ~1 ·rin: Shannon. Sorin. Center \\'hit<.:. \\'alsh. I lalf-harks-1.arkin. \\'alsh; :.\k\'ichol. \\ a!...h. Quarter hat·k-\lc.\llen. ~orin. Full-hat·k-<J' .\"t·al. Brown-.on. 

Dotrc Dame Scholastic 
DlSCe-9VASI-5emP6I2-VICTViewS- VIVe-pvyASl-CRASIMORITV/ieyS-
VOL. XLIV. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 3, 1910. No. 12. 
A Toast. 

A H! great are these days with the Gold and Blue flaunting On high, o'er the campus of fair Notre Dame; AYhen her sons to N. D. and her honor devoted Defy our opponents to tarnish her fame. For throughout all the West we have one of the best Of teams that upholds any college or school. 
And why be depressed o'er the game we were beaten! Our "off day" is seldom, our triumphs not few. Then here's a full bumber to quaff as our greeting To the varsity squad of the gold and the blue. 
P. P. F. 

The Annual "New Rules." 
EDWIN J. LYNCH. 
(Assistant Coach.) 

N a few weeks the Football Rules Committee will meet to change the rules governing that sport. This is an annual occurrence. Every fall, at the close of the foot­ball season, there is published a list of killed and injiured at football; and immediately thereafter there is a clamor for a reform in the game, culminating in a meeting of the committee above mentioned. These gentlemen meet with the avowed intention of legislating the element of risk out of football. Sometimes they succeed in minimizing the chances for accident and sometimes they do not. They attain success only at those times when they tium out an entirely new and in­comprehensible set of rules. This can be illus:jrated by the result of the upheaval in 1903 when the change was made from the old to the 
new game. No one, not even the members of the committee themselves, could coherently interpret the rules laid down for that year. Coaches were afraid to instruct a team along certain Unes, because they were not able to say with any degree of certainty what would be the ruling of the officials on the new points of the game. They could not fully appreciate what would be allowed or what would be disallowed under the new rules. Diu-ing the seasons of-1904 and 1905 there were very few serious mishaps charged up against football. After the rules had been tried out for a season or two, however,. we find a highly interesting system of plays and defenses developed throughout the country. As each succeeding season passed we found the rules less difficult to understand and the possi­bilities for new and surprising plays more easily grasped by the coaches. As soon as the possi-* bilities of this new set of rules came to be recog­nized by the coaches, and different systems of play to be perfected as a result of this recog­'nition, there was an attendant increase in the 
list of dead and injiured. 
The truth of this statement can be realized by looking back over the changes effected by this committee. In the meeting of 1903 above referred to, owing to the weight of pubHc opinion, there was a radical change made in the nature of the game. Followers of the sport did not recognize their beloved game in the new rules. The idea of playing a football game under the restrictions therein set forth was scoffed at; but as the seasons roUed by and the new game became more familiar to the coaches and players the list of fatalities increased each year. It was soon evident that more changes should be made if the game was to continue to be in favor with the public. Accordingly a meeting was held last fall and the game changed in many ways. Yet when the list of fatalities was published 
this year we were appalled to see that it totalled thirteen dead and fifty-six injured. The reason why the list this 3'^ear did not decrease corre­spondingly with that of 1904 was that the changes made in the rules last fall were not so radical as those made in 1903. Followers of the game could easil}'- discern the flimsy disguise afforded it by the new rules. The rules were easily understood, and besides those in charge of teams were furnished with official interpretations placed on the different rules b}- the committee. There was no such need for regeneration here as existed in 1904. All that was necessarj'- was to appl}'- the limitations set forth b}' the com­mittee to the existing rules and to proceed with tlie game as of old. Add to this the fact that some of the changes aided rather than hindered the chances of "injuiy, and we have the cause of the comparatively high rate of mortality tliis season. 
Chief among tlie changes that tended to aid rather than hinder the chances of injury'" is the one forbidding the flj'ing tackle. It is a curious fact and one worthy of note that there was small risk of injury in the Gying tackle. I think that ever)'" man who has ever pla^'^ed football will bear me out in this: that the harder he went for a man, the less pain he suffered from the impact. It was not the man who "dove" that suffered the broken collar-bone or the "l^Tenched shoulder, but the man who " backed up " the line of scrim­mage and met the offense as it came through witliout having the chance to put much force in his attempt. I have not the statistics to bear me out in my contention that this rule would aid the chance of injur}'-, because I believe that the rule was generally disregarded this season. The onl)'- time the fi)'^ing tackle is necessar}'- is when the man carr3dng the ball is in a broken field with only one or two men between himself and the opponents' goal Hne. Now, whenever this condition existed last season the man play­ing back would generally ignore the rule and suffer the five-yard -penalty attached to its Adolation for the sake of securing his goal line from the danger of being crossed. This rule was entirely ineffectual and should be repealed. 
Another change that is said by some to have increased the danger of injur)'- is the rule di-vidihg the game into quarters. Those who maintain this proposition claim "that the "three­minute interval between the first and second, and third and fourth periods, when the teams 
are not allowed to leave the field and no rep­resentative of either team is allowed on the field of play, conduces to pneumonia, or at least to a stiffening of the muscles, rendering the player more liable to injur}'- at the resumption of play. This, however, is a debatable question. Even under the old rules theire' were times when pla)"" was stopped for nearly the length of the inter­mission provided for under the new rules and sometimes for a longer period. "WTienever time is taken out, whether for an injured player or for other causes, the team asking for the time has at least two minutes before play can be resumed. To my knowledge there has never been a complaint made that the time thus taken out produced fatal results. Of course. if a pla3''er imagines that sitting down on the cold, damp ground while he is in a heated condition constitutes a rest, he is bound to be disagreeably surprised sooner or later by rheumatic pains and attendant suffering. The men are generally instructed, however, to keep on their feet and moA'^ing whenever time is taken out, and if this advice is followed during the three-minute intermission provided for by the above rule no disastrous results are likely to follow. On the whole, I think the rule is a good one and should be retained. 
Another rule that has proved its worth and should be retained is the one providing that a player who has been removed for any cause except disqualification or suspension may be returned to the game once at the beginning of any subsequent period. Before this rule was in effect coaches were prone to keep a good man in the game long after he had become exhausted, taking him out only when he was unable to stand. This revision of the rules allows a man being taken out when he fiirst shows signs of weakening. After a short rest he can be returned to the game with his efficiency increased. 
Doubtless the rule that has been placed in the code against crawling will be per­manent. Crawling is a term which embraces any forward motion of the ball in the hands of a player of the side having possession of it after it has been declared dead by the referee. An attempt to do this before the rule was put in force was often made the excuse for piling on by the opponents. 
The legislation concerning the forward pass introduces some of the most radical changes made last year. In the^ attempt to eliminate all danger and still preserve the distinctive features of this play the committee went too far. The danger that attended the forward pass last year was that the defense concentrated its efforts on "spilling" either the passer or the man eligible to receive the ball. They paid no attention to. the ball itself, indeed they were forbidden to touch it until after it had been touched by one of the passer's o\vn side. . In the attempt to cure these abuses the committee established two safety zones; and apparently to make the legislation uniform, and not too difficult to be understood, made the same rules applicable to both kicks and passes as regards these zones. There was an imaginary line five yards back of the line of scrimmage and another twenty yards ahead of it. Within the twenty-yard zone every man had the benefit of King's X. He could not be interfered with by an opponent until certain formalities had been complied with. Where the committee erred was in applying this legislation to kicks and in requiring that the man executing a forward pass be five yards back of the line of scrimmage. When the committee allows a forward pass from anywhere behind the line of scrimmage and re-enacts the old rules in regard to kicks so as to allow of the short, quick, on-side kicks of old, we shall see a much more interesting game. 
The efforts of the rules committee are not all aimed at eliminating the risk of injur}'- from the game. It attempts to' make the game more interesting to th2 spectator and to eradicate all unnecessary roughness on the part of the con­testants. In its efforts to make the game more interesting to and more easily understood by the spectators, it has been rewarded in no small degree; but in its attempts to legislate against roughness it has not been so successful. The effect of tlie legislation regarding the forward pass has been to facilitate the commission of one of the most aggravating fouls expressly forbidden under the rules. I refer to holding. In their zeal to enforce the newer phases of the game, the officials have given most of their attention to the fouls likely to be committed elsewhere and ver}'- little attention to use of hands by the offensive players on the line of scrimmage. As a result the men on the line have formed the habit of holding their opponents during important crises. As was remarked before, there is nothing more aggravating and more productive of bad feeling than this practice. It will continue, however, unless the number of officials be increased, which would be an ab­


SCHOLASTIC 
surdity, or the safety zones be done away with. 
The rule which^allows the player who first receives the ball .when it is snapped back to carry it across the line of scrimmage is a good one, although not strictly a.new rule. Such a rule was in effect many years ago. This rule with the possibilities existing under the open style of game should be productive of many surprising plays when its practicability is recog­nized. The rule against pushing or pulling.the man with the ball is one that has been needed for some time. It will undoubtedly be retained mth a fe.w minor changes. 
I am afraid that I have drifted a bit from what I started out to say. I started out to teU about the meeting of the rules committee which is sure to be called within a short time to. con­sider changes demanded by an "outraged" pubUc. They ^vill meet with the avowed intention of legislating all danger to life and limb out of football. But they will not succeed; that is they will not meet with lasting success. Their efforts will be as fruitful as are the efforts of prohibition to prohibit. They are legislating against Nature's laws. WTiat has been said of aviation can be said of football: there are certain risks attendant upon it; and anyone going in for the sport goes in with a full knowledge of these risks and should bear the consequences of his act. This looks like a brutal doctrine; but the American football game is hard, rough, dangerous. It will stand brutal statement: If changed, it must be changed radically, which means the abolition of the present game. 
The Season and the Men. 
ARTHUR HUGHES, II . 
{Athletic Editor, Scholastic). 

The football season for the year 1910 was not as propitious as was the season of 1909.. Last year Notre Dame closed the season Champions of the West. This year she failed in this respect. There were six games played. Out of this number were four victories, one tie game and one defeat. The defeat was suffered at the-hands of the Michigan Aggies. Marquette played us to a 5-5 tie on Thanks­giving day and we vanquished Olivet, Buchtell, Rose Poly and Ohio Northern. Not a great 
i8o NOTRE DAME 
amount of honor was won through our victories, for the teams defeated were vastl)'- our inferiors in every way as the large scores indicate. In the Michigan Aggies' game at Lansing tlie team for some reason failed to play up to its standard, and as a result the M. A. C. men pla3'^ed havoc with ever}'- department of the Notre Dame representation. Michigan's cancellation of the Notre Dame game made it impossible for the team to show its strength and ability when playing in its usual form, for there is no doubt whatever but our men would have put forth a far better struggle than they did the week previous at Lansing. The men felt the sting which was administered by the Aggies, and they put in the following week working like demons in order to show their real strength at Ann Arbor. The game with Marquette brought out the ability and power of tlie team, for in that game ever)'- man in the line-up gave an exhibition which astonished the local fans and spectators at Milwaukee. 
Last 3'^ear the material for a championship team was a great deal more in evidence than was the case this season. T\^ile the men got out and fought hard for positions there were not the number of hea\^, experienced men in the squad; and it is this that makes teams which get into the first page with their accom­plishments. In addition to this, the absence of Billy Ryan and Don Hamilton proved a big factor in weakening the team. Had not Ryan's bad knee and Hamilton's being declared ineligi­ble kept these men out of the game there might have been a different story to relate after the Michigan Aggies' contest. With the end came the close of the football careers of six men on the team: Joe Collins, Ralph Dimmick, George Philbrook, Lee Matthews, Luke Kelley, and John Duffy. The first five of these men were players on last year's team, and they have bade farewell to a branch of athletic sports in which they stood among the best. 
RAI,PH DIMMICK (Captain, Tackle). Ralph played throughout the season the same sure dependable game. The number of tackles in the country who can use their hands in offense in the manner of this giant player are few indeed. He was a sure man for a gain when given the ball, and his line plunges and tackle-around plays have brought him the reputation of being one of the greatest tackles in the collegiate world of sport. 


SCHOLASTIC 
JOSEPH COLLINS (Knd). 
Throughout the season a most aggressive and consistent player, Joe played his last game of football at Marquette in a blaze of glory. The Notre Dame men who accompanied tlie team, and the Milwaukee scribes as well, give the palm to the brilliant work of Notre Dame's greatest end in recent years. A fast man and a sure tackier, he was always found down the field ready for the opposition on punts. Joe has played three years for Notre Dame and his work during that time has always been of the same high standard.' 
LEE MATTHEWS (Quarterback, Halfback). "Mattie" started the season at quarter and played a most consistent game, directing the team with unusual skill,- but later was moved to the halfback position that the team might be better balanced. He is at all times a fast man, a good ground gainer, possessing good judg­ment and proved a sure tackier. He has played three years on the team. 
GEORGE PHILBROOK (Tackle). 
"Phil" has always proved the best of ground gainers. This year in addition to his great plunging ability he developed unusual speed for a man of his build. He was handicapped in the latter part of the season with an injured ankle, but he continued in the games until the season's close. He has played three years on the team. 
LUKE KELLY (Guard). Luke Kelly brightened the prospects of Notre Dame's team by returning to school on the day of the first game. He played a stellar brand of football during the season, being aggressive and usually the first man to break through the op­posing line. The touchdown made in the Mar­
quette game was made possible by his breaking through the line and tackling Elsen so hard that the Wisconsin man fumbled the ball, He 
was in ,the game every minute. 
ARTHUR CLIPPINGER (Halfback, Fullback). "Clip" made his debut this year as a varsity player at Notre Dame, and while playing a good game during the season he broke forth as a star in the Marquette contest. There was gameness in every inch of him in this game, and his terrific plunging tore many holes in the opposing line-up. He has yet two years to play, and he will be a most important member of next year's team. 

CO 

VARSITY SQUAD, 1910 
to 
TOP Row—Morgan, Smith, Lynch (Asst. Coach), L. Ryan, Jones, Madden, Crowley, Glynn, Hamilton, SECOND ROW—J. Duffy, Feency, Figcl McHugh, R. Duffy, Will'anis, Dunphy, McGinnis, Diebokl. THIRD ROW—Rocknc, Clinnin, Matthews, Dininiick (Capt.), Philbrook, Kelly, Clippinger. FOURTH ROW—Longman (Coach), Martin, Oaas, Bergman, Fitzgerald, Stansricld, McGraw, 
wvtiviwvmpauoatm^nMSLjt;^ 

CHARLES DORIAS (Quarterback). Dorias got his first chance in the Buchtell game, and from the minute he entered the con-te'st he showed his worth. In playing his first year on the team he made a most favorable impression, and he has proved a worthy suc­cessor to "Don" Hamilton. "Dor}-" has a cool head and is a'determined player at all times. His work in running the team was almost faultless, and he is the equal of any man playing football when it comes to returning punts. JOHN STANSFIELD (Guard, Fullback). Stansfield started the season at guard, but was later shifted to fullback where he showed to very good advantage. He is.a hard, deter­mined player at ail times, and his line plunging in the Ohio Northern contest was the best of the year. He has two 3^ears to play. 
ToRGUS OAAS (Guard, Tackle). Oaas is not the sort of player that gets the grandstand \vrought up, for he is not of the sho\\y sort. He enters the game with all the fight and fire of his great predecessor, Howard Edwards, 
last year's captain, and his playingsimilar to that of Edwards. Hemore years to pla^-.   was has  ver}''  two  
THOMAS  FOLEY  (Center).  

Tom played his first year for Notre Dame this fall and proved a strong center. He played a steady, consistent game in ever)'- contest, and his breaking through the line in the Mar­quette game brought him much praise. His handling of the ball was excellent. He has two more years to play. 
CHARLES CROWLEY. 
"Chuck" is a player that a football man would appreciate greater than the fan on the sidelines. He was a wizard when it came to the inside game, and he was continually on the watch for every turn of the contest. His work at end was steady and consistent. 
WILLIAM MARTIN (End). 
Martin broke into the game late in the season and proved a good man in caxrying the ball in the "ends around" pla}'-. Bill is a fast man and his work in getting down under punts made him a valuable player. He will be one of the mainstays of next year's team. 
CHESTER MCGRATH (Fullback). For a man of his size "Mac" is a wonder. 

He plays a hard game and showed his greatest ability in running interference." He seldom failed to put his man out of the pla}'' in this work. He was also a good man on defense. 
LEE RYAN (Right Halfback). Lee broke into the game at Notre Dame this season and proved to be the best man on the team in running with the ball in an open field. He played a head}'- game and picked holes in the line of the opposition with the precision of a veteran. He seldom failed to gain. 
•WALTER CLINNIN (Left Halfback). "Clin" in playing his first year on the team proved a fast man. He was a good ground gainer and a most reliable man on defense. An- injury which he suffered to his knee in the latter part of the season prevented him from getting into the Marquette game. ALFRED BERGMAN (Right Halfback). For his size "Bergie" proved a wonder.­He is a splendid runner in an open field. The manner in which he shook loose his tacklers brought him much praise. He is fast and has the best of judgment and will develop into a player of the big-league class. Duffy, Williams, Diebold, McGinnis and 
Smith are men who proved a reliable group of substitutes. 
COACH FRANK LONGMAN. Frank Longman has alread)'^ left the battle front and returned to his home in Ann Arbor. While the 1910 season was not so brilliant as that of 1909, yet it was a 

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
season brilliant enough to satisfy every follower of the gold and blue. The defeat by the Aggies and the cancellation of the Michigan game were two hard set-backs, but "Shorty" and the team proved they could come back at Mil­waukee, when the husky Marquettes were kept around their goal line for three-quarters of the game. 
ASSISTANT COACK LYNCH. 

"Cop" pla^'-ed center last year. This year he helped in the work of coaching and proved a valuable assistant to the head coach. ly^'^nch understands football as well as he plays it, and that's no faint praise. 
MS 
JAMES HOPE (Manager). 

"Jimmie" had an ugly schedule to handle at the beginning of the season, but he worked in his quiet way and did the very best that could be done under the circumstances. Jimmie finishes in law this year. 
Varsity Verse. 
FAMOUS EVENTS IX HISTORY: THE DSFE.^T 

OF  THE  INVIXCIBL E  ARJIADA .  
We  got  some  football  team:  I  say—  _  
May  bee  you  theenk  \ve  can  not  play!  

We beat jus' all the teams roun' here; ^ That mek for us one champion j-ear. We beat them all! How—all, I say? Yes! Ail but one:—the umpire play. An' mek twelve men to play agains' In that game. He mek great offense. 
We been all South American 
Excep' some seven Mexican 
Who play with-us. Been Rubio 
xVn' Palomar,—Canario! 
He play some class; he use the bean— 
An' Alvarez, an' big Clarin. ­
He got 'em all back' oif the cards; 
He kick that ball five hundred yards. 
We mek a great big champion play With Sorin Hall, Thanksgiving Day. Oh, such a game! We fight like mad; You think that score he make me sad? We don' know what we're goin' to do With jus' five minutes lef: tie score; We hav' to play that game some more. 
Some Sorin fellow mek a crack For goal; he kick from way oft back. That ball she sure goin' mek that goal; She go so swift an' straight an' all; But Rubio jump forty feet Right up an' stop her, oh, so neat! But umpire say the .flyin' tack' No good, an' mek him bring her back 
|Ch my! Quizd pucs. 
O. H 
FULL OF' IT. A certain guard Could tackle hard. But when he met Miss Phoebe Centre, 
He was kalj floored When she imploied. 
He'd take a quarter back he lent her. 
R. F. D. 
All-Hall Selection. 
RALPH C. DIMMICK, II . 
{Captain of Varsity.) 

FIRST TEAM. Center—Heyl (Corby). Guards—Mortz (Corby), Hicks (Walsh). Tackles—O'Rourke (Bro\%Ti.), Gushurst (Corby) Ends—Campbell (Sorin), Sommers (Corby). Halfbacks—^Fish(Sorin),Howard (St. Joseph). OuUback—^K. Jones (Corby). Fuarter—Mehlem (Corby). 


NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
SECOND TEAM. 

Center—DeLandero (Sorin). 
Guards—R. Jones (Corby), Rubio (Sorin). 
Tackles—Yund (Corby), IMcSweeney (St. Joseph) 
Ends—Corcoran • (St. J.), Newning (Walsh). 
Quarter—Hug (Walsh). 
Halfbacks—Larkin (Walsh), D. Kelly (Brown.) 
Fullback—O' Neill (Brownson). 
In the selection of the All-Hall Football 

Team the v-nriter does not lay claim to infallibil­
ity, and accordingly has secured tlie help of 
the various hall coaches in making up the roll 
of honor. The S3'stem followed in making tlie 
selection has been as follows: each coach 
picked an all-star team and eliminated in 
his selection all men from his o^vn squad. 
The pla^-ers then receiving the highest numb'er 
of votes were placed on the all-hall eleven.. 
On the first team it is seen that Corby leads with six men, v>-hile Sorin has two, and St. Joseph, Walsh and Brovvmson each have one. The fact that Corby won the championshijj naturalty places her men in the lead. There may have been stars that failed to come to light because of the -poor showing made by their teams in the interhall race, for however brilliant a man's pla^ang ma^- be, it is necessary, before its effectiveness is fully appreciated, that his team-mates lend an equal effort to make his work effective. No man on the first eleven received less than three votes out of a possible four, which made the matter of final selection a purely mathematical problem. In making a selection of this kind there is always more or less dissatisfaction, but it is hoped that the plan followed this year wall at least seem fair, if not infallible. 
With the new rules in effect the selection of the men has been difficult, for not only had the individuals to be watched, but their adaptability to the rules and their gradual improvement as the season progressed had to be considered. Agressiveness, spirit, head work and sportsmanship have been the predominating factors in the decisions of the hall coaches. 
TACKLES. 

Never before have tackles found their positions so difl&cult to, play as this season. With most of the attacks directed between tackle and end, the men have found their tasks strictly de­fensive, and they have seldom been called on to carry the ball. 
O'Rourke of Brownson and Gushurst of 

Corby have been chosen as all-hall tackles. To O'Rourke more then to any other man on the Brownson team does coach Oaas owe the success of his famous tackle-shift ^formations. HeaA^'- and shifty, O'Rourke possessed an unusual amount of speed for a man of his size, while his lightness on his feet enabled him to perform the deceptive tricks usually to be found in the playing of an end. 
Gushurst stands in a strange light, that of playing better in a new position than in the one he was regularly called on to fill. Through­out the season Gushurst was trained for the line, but when the critical time came he was called on to take a berth in the backfield. His wonderful defensive work stands as a landmark in Corby's triumphant march. His work on offense, in which he handled the ball well, and his great speed often enabled him to make gains where a lighter man Avould have been throwTi for a loss. He was not spectacular, but won his positions through hard, consistent work, and by proving himself a careful student of the game. 
GUARDS. Two guards of varsity calibre were seen in the interhall games this season in Hicks of Walsh and Mortz of Corby. Captain Mortz led his' team through one of the most successful seasons ever enjoyed by a Corby eleven. His untiring efforts and persevering methods stamp him as one of Corby's greatest football captains. He was a power both on offense and defense. His forte was breaking through the opponents' line and stopping their plays before they were fairly started. He is also chosen captain. In Hicks Walsh has a man of whom she may well feel proud. His ability in defensive work was never shown to greater advantage than in the Corby-Walsh game, when he worked so well the Corby backs could not gain an inch through his position. He was little used on the offensive, save in opening holes for his backs, but on these occasions he always made a good place through which they might go for a gain. He was fast in getting down the field under punts, and his work in tackling was as phenomenal as one would care to see. 
CENTER. 

Heyl of Corby undoubtedly has earned his right to lay claim to the pivotal position on the team—having been selected unanimously. Heyl 

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
had a style all his own. Throughout the season he was played loose and had that peculiar but valuable faculty of solving the plays of his opponents. He is a hard tackier, sending his man back by his charging instead of per­mitting him to fall forward. And his passing of the ball has been remarkable, not a pass being out of the way. 
ENDS. Although their work has increased in difficulty, ends have been especially numerous in the interhall activities. Campbell of Sorin, Sommers of Corby, Newning and Baujan of Walsh, Lower of Brownson and Corcoran of St. Joseph, loom up as the best men in the department. Besides the regular defensive work in smashing interference and tackling, the players have been chosen for their ability to elude their opponents and get free for forward passes. Campbell of Sorin looms up as the best end the "Bookies" have developed for several years. Standing over six feet he has the greatest speed of any man on the hall elevens. On offensive he was called on to carry the ball often and seldom failed to negotiate the necessar}'- yard­age. Besides his necessary ability as an end he is a valuable man to the team in the punting department. -Sommers of Corby was the choice for the other 'end position. His performances on defense have been of a high order, and no consistent gains have been made around his side of the line. He has been successful in blocking his tackle and paving the way for his backs to advance the ball. His work in getting do^vn the field on punts had added materially to the effectiveness of Mehlem's punting throughout the season. HALFBACKS. Halfbacks have been plentiful in the interhall league this season.and a number of men with unusual ability have shown up. Among the best playing the positions were Fish of Sorin, Larkin of Walsh, Howard of St. Joseph and Kelly of Brownson. Fish and Howard were given the call over the other men, but that heady player, Larkin of Walsh, stood only one vote behind the elder men when the final count was made. Fish of Sorin was the mainstay of his eleven and showed well all season. He carried the ball in a most brilliant manner and was the one man upon whom Sorin depended in all her games. His work as a drop-kicker stamps him as one of 
the best men seen on Cartier field this season 
in this department. 
As a running mate for Fish the coaches have 
selected Howard of St. Joseph. An all-hall team 
would not be complete without such a player 
whose defensive qualities have shown to such 
great advantage this season. On offense his 
work was effective at all times, but his superior 
work in backing up the line stamps him as one of 
the greatest men ever tmmed out by the hall on 
the west side. 
FULLBACK. 

At fullback K. Jones of Corby seemed to have 
things his own way. He was the one man in 
the "BraA'-es" backfield about whom most of the 
plays were built. His line bucks were remark­
able and he seldom failed when called on to 
carry the ball. On defense Jones seemed to be 
everyivhere at once. His fierce tackling was 
noticeable in the Sorin game, and the w;ay he 
threw his man was a surprise to Sorin. 
QUARTER. 

Mehlem of Corby, more than any other, is 
qualified for the numerous duties of. quarter. 
Hug of Walsh has all season showed himself 
a good man, and mth another season's coach­
ing will undoubtedly be the man for the place 
if he keeps up the work of this year. Mehlem 
showed to advantage in every game. 
After the team has been picked we realize 
that a hair-line distinction has been made in . 
many cases and we come again to the question ' 
of the "infallibilit}'-" of the coaches. We find that there still remains a second team well worthy the steel of the first team; but for the stubborn fact that the all-star wagon has only a seating capacity for eleven, some must w;ait for the next means of conveyance—^the second team. In the line we find such men as De Landdro, Hughes, Morgan and Rubio of Sorin, Corcoran and McSweeney of St. Joseph, Newning and Baujan of Walsh, R. Jones, Hebner, Madden, Yund and-Devitt of Corby—^.all men of high calibre, whose ability makes the task of picking 
an all-star cast a most difficult one. ... 
In the backfield there is a wealth of material. Hug, Larkin and McNichol of Walsh, McDonnell of Corby, O 'Neill of Brownson are all men whose performances of the season just closed brings back that troublesome and perplexing question— the infallibility of the coaches. With such wealth of material—strong, husky, healthy lads—^the future of the Varsity is safe for some time yet. 

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Notre Dame Scholastic 
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter 

Published every Saturday during the School Tenn at the University of Notre Dame 
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid 
Address: The Editor Notre Dame Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana 
Vol. XLIV. December 3, 1910. No. 12. 
Board of Editors. 
THOMAS A. LAHEY, '11 .A.RTHUR HUGHES, 'l l CHARLES C. MILTNER, 'l l JOHN F. O'HARA, ' 11 FRANCIS WENNINGER, ' I 1 JOHN C. TULLY, ' 11 RALPH C. DIMMICK, ' I I JOHN P. AIURPHY, 'l2 PETER P. FORREST.A.L, 'll PAUL RUSH, '12 

—The close of the 1910 football season at Notre Dame has not been marked by any great demonstration such as closed the season last 
year, but the absence The Men of 1910. of an enthusiastic out­
burst must not be taken to mean a diminished loyalty to the team of this year. As usual the gold and blue was rep­resented on the gridiron by a team that was willing and able to cope Avith any team in the west. Owing to circumstances over which the team and the University had no control, the men were denied that privilege. With but one defeat, and that defeat administered under unfavorable circumstances b}' a team that outplayed every other opponent on tlie gridiron this fall, our men have no cause for regret. The cancellation of the Wabash game deprived the players of a splendid ©importunity to show the best that was in them, and handicapped them for the season. 
But all this is beside the mark. WHiat really counts, after all, in any contest is the spirit of the men who compete. If we have athletic contests it is that we may be trained in those qualities which count in life.' The football player, to be successful, must be a fine specimen of manhood. He must have strength and skill; he must be trained to think and act quickly. It is too often forgotten that the qualities for Avhich we most esteem tlie man are the qual­ities underlying his conduct in the game. 
This is the higher meaning of football, and of college athletics in general. The work of 
education is, after all, simply preparation for the greater battle that will come later; and while the intellectual side should not be sacrificed to the ph3'sical in education, too great stress can not be laid on the necessity of some kind of physical contests as a part of college training. Mere calisthenics will take care of physical culture; athletic contests mean much more, for their efi'ects are just as much moral as ph3'sical, and are not without their intellec­tual side. The men who have upheld the standard of Notre Dame this year are worthy of all honor, and we congratulate them .at the close of a successful season. 
—In this issue is presented, after careful examination, the men who are considered worthy of positions in the All-Hall first and second teams. The selec-The All-Hall Teams as tion will hardly prove Varsity Material. satisfactory' to every­body, but it wall prove satisfactory- to those who have follow-ed the work of the players, and judge impartially. 
This selection of all-hall men should serve a twofold purpose. It should ser\'e to honor and distinguish those players representing any hall whose work v.-on favorable notice during the season. It is indeed a recognition of ability. The second purpose reaches out to a practical result. Perhaps v.-e ought to qualify, and say it reaches out to what the SCHOLASTIC considers a practical result. Is it not possible to consider the men who have been selected to positions on the first and second all-hall teams—or if more desirable the first team only—as varsity material for next fall? In that event these men would not be eligible to represent a hall team— at least not until the varsity coach shall have decided them unfit for the varsity. They would make a valuable addition to the varsit>^ squad 
when the football season opens. If these men did not make the regular varsity team the first year, it would occasion no surprise. It is not at all necessary that a candidate jump right off from a hall to a varsit}^ position. Indeed, a year of experience on a freshman team that has to bear the hard knocks of the monogram men will prove very serviceable in training and will help to get a deeper knowledge of the game. It would seem there ought to be some rule to guide coaches at the beginning of the foot­ball season "when the^'- are calling for candidates. 
Apostolate of Religious Reading. 

The following books have been added to the library of the apostolate: "The Dweller on the Borderland" by Lanza, "The Barrier" b)'^ Basin, "Great Possessions" by Ward, "Hiawatha's Black Robe" by Leahe}^ "A Life's Ambition" by Kelly, "Grapes and Thorns" by Ticknor, "The Matchless Maid" by Vaughan, "As Gold in the Furnace" by Copus, "Earl}'- steps in the Fold" by De Zulueta, "Marcella Grace" by MulhoUand, "Miss Erin" by Francis, "By Th}' Love and Thy Grace" and "His First and Last Appearance" by Finn, "A Daughter of New France" by Crowlej'^, "Discourses and Sermons on Various Occasions" by Gibbons, "A Little Maid of Arcady" by Reid, "The Purpose of the Papacy" by Vaughan, "Notes on Ingersoll" by Lambert, "Blessed Gabriel, C. P.," by Ward, "The Divine Stor}^" by Holland. Dr. James J. Walsh has presented three of his most widely read volumes. These are "The Thir­teenth, the Greatest of the Centuries," ."The Popes and Science" and "The Makers of Modem Medicine." This thoughtful and gen­erous contribution, as well as the spirit in which all of his work is done, makes it evident that Dr. Walsh is laboring as a true apostle in the caiise of truth. Ma}'^ his noble apostolate be 
ever more successful. Any of the above-mentioned books ma}'- be obtained on applica­tion to Brother Alphonsus. 
Sophomore Cotillion. 

Discarding tradition and adopting the latest novelties with clever variations, the sophomore class gave the most successful class function that the University has seen in recent 3'^ears in their cotillion last Wednesdaj'^, November 30. The ball was held at Place hall. South Bend. The hall was decorated as never before. More than two hundred electric lights in Japanese lanterns swung from the ceiling, and the draping of the walls and ceiling was notably artistic. A supper was served during intermissions that were arranged on the novel plan of "supper extras.'! The guests were divided into four diflFerent groups, and one-fourth of the company was served during each of the extras. The programs, maroon colored for the gentlemen and white for the ladies, took the form of 
leather card-cases. The music, furnished by 
Professor Petersen's orchestra, was unusually 
good, and nothing was left undone that could 
contribute to the thorough enjoyment of the 
guests. The following committee was in charge 
of affairs: Fred Williams, Frank Crowley, 
Raymond McConlogue, William Moran, William 
Hogan, Earl Luder, Alfred Bergman, Martin 
He^d. 
More than 80 couples were present at the affair, the guests from out of the city including the Misses Frances Martin, Ethel O'Connell, Editli Leech, Mabel Stoakes, Adelaide Barsa­loux, and Adelaide Washburn, of Chicago; the Misses Marie Prahl, Ethel Pulian and Slargaret Johnson, of Mishawaka; Miss Theresa Donahue, of Richmond, Va.; Miss Stella Bergman, of Peru, Ind.; Miss Charlotte Bruff, of Chicago Heights; Miss Pearl Smith, of Indianapolis, and the Misses Marie Keip and ]\Iarguerite Cahill, of St. Mar)'-'s college. Mr. and ilrs. William Logan Benitz, Mr. and Mrs. William Budd Kelle}'-, and Mr. and Mrs. John Lorimer Worden, chaperoned the affair. 
Preliminaries in Oratory. 

In the trials preliminary to tlie Breen Medial contest in oratory, Messrs. Miltner, Wenninger, Hagert)'^, Heiser and Lahe^'- finished in the order named. The first four mentioned will be eligible to compete in the Breen ]\Iedal contest which will be held on December 14. The orations were of an exceptionally high order, and very close markings resulted. 
The first meeting of the executive committee of the state oratorical association met Sunday afternoon at the Denison Hotel, Indianapolis, for the selection of judges on thought and composition for the annual contest, which will be held in Indianapolis, February 24, 1911. 
Society Notes. 
St. JOSEPH LITERARY. 

Last Sunday evening St. Joseph Literary Society rendered one of its customary, highly enjoyable programs. Mr. Sanford recited" The Picket Guard," and Mr. Smith, "The Hindoo Paradise." Following the recitations, a debate was held. The question was: Resolved, That the influence of the " Nickelodian" is demoralizing. 


WTRE DAME 

Messrs. Costello and Schallert argued for the affirmative; Messrs. Barry and ,_McGrath, for the negative. By a two-to-one vote the judges decided in favor of the affirmative. "The Equestrian Courtship" was then recited by James Traynor, and Wrhittier's sonnet, "Forgiveness," was recited by Julius Meuninck. The difficult task of reciting a sonnet was very-well performed by Mr. Meuninck. The meeting closed with a violin solo by Charles Robinson accompanied by Prof. Derrick. Great interest is showTi in the work of the society this year, every member entering into the spirit of the work. Arrangements for a debate between the fresh­men of Brownson and St. Joseph halls are under way. 
BROWNSON LITERARY AND DEBATING. 

The ninth regular meeting of the society was held last Sunday evening. An excellent debate was held on the question: Resolved, That cities with a population of more than thirty thousand should adopt the commission form of government. Messrs. W. O'Shea, J. O'Brien and R. Scott spoke for the affirmative; Messrs. 
T. Mahoney, O. Daly and R. Halligan, for the negative. Strong arguments were advanced by both sides, but the negative disclosed the drawbacks of the proposed plan so clearly that the judges gave an unanimous decision in their favor. Mr. Peter Meersman, a former member of the societ}'-, spoke on the benefits he derived from a membership of a year and a half. Brother Alphonsus entertained the society witli two recitations entitled "Driving Home the Cows" and "The Bridge." Father Carroll closed the program with some complimentary remarks about the efforts of the speakers of the evening. 
Personals. 

—Thomas L. Donnelly (C. E. '04) of Bay City, IMichigan, is a civil engineer on the Michigan Central Railroad. 
—^Agustus J. Hampton (student in 'oS-'og) is the Ass't Civil Engineer on the New York and Hartford Railroad. 
—^John J. Devine (student in the years '08­'09 and '09-'ID) renewed old acquaintances by visiting friends at the University last week. 
—Mx, Bryan M. Taylor of St. Louis, Mo., who was a student in St. Edward's and Carroll halls from 1897-1902, visited the University a 

SCHOLASTIC 

short time ago. Mr. Taylor is now comiected with the Pittsburg Plate Glass Co. 
—Mr. Henry E. Taylor, student dming the nineties, paid a visit to the University several weeks ago. Mr. Taylor holds an important position in the Solid Tire Department of the Diamond Rubber Co., of Chicago, 111. 
—Stewart M. Graham, student here in engineering for several years, is now working for the Chicago and Western Indiana and Belt Railroad. Mr. Graham is a track foreman with three assistant foremen and sixty-five men under him. 
—^Joseph A. O'Niel (student in 'o8-'o9 and '09-'10) visited the University last Thanksgiving day. "Joe" is grading and inspecting lumber at his father's yards and mills in St. Louis, Mo., and intends to gain a thorough knowledge of the business. 
—Hon. Timothy R. Ansberry (LL. B. '93) has been re-elected for the third time to the United States Congress from the fifth Congres­sional district, Ohio. He is also an aspirant for United States Senatorial honors, for the term of the present Ohio Senator expires in 1911, and Mr. Ansberry is considered a Hkely successor in that office. 
—^An invitation came to Provincial Morrissey from L. F. Craig (student '02-06),Stratton, Colo., to assist at the laying of the comer-stone of the new Catholic church which is to be erected at Stratton. With the characteristic enter­prise of the Notre Dame man Leo is working for the spread of our Faith in the far West. Congratulations and success to Leo! May the New Colony church be a realization of his most enthusiastic hopes! 
—Howard Edwards, Capt. of Western Cham­pions in football last year, and a graduate of the short Electrical Course, was back again at Notre Dame this week. Ex-Capt. Edwards says he will be around South Bend this winter and is contemplating going to school again at N. D. Howard brings good reports of his season's work at West Virginia Wesleyan. His team was very successful, losing but two games all season and tying U. of W. Virginia for state championship. 
—Our worthy and most enterprising reporter on the Personal Column failed to secure the interesting item to the effect that Rev. Henry Kemper (Litt. B. '05) will be ordained to the priesthood on December 7. Father Kemper will sing his first mass in St. Michael's church, Chicago, Ill.jCon the feast of the Immaculate Conception.; .The SCHOLASTIC on behalf of his many friends here at the University extends to Father Kemper the wish that he may enjoy length of years and gain a wealth of merit in 
his sacred calling. 
Obituary. 

Brother Raymond, C. S. C, of the students book store, was called home by the sudden death of his father yesterday morning. As Brother Raymond is well known and appre­ciated by all the students for his unfailing courtesy and readiness to be of assistance, Ave are confident they will remember his beloved father in their prayers. R. I. P. 
• ' Safety Valve. 

In the Chicago-Wisconsin game a W. player was put out of the game for slugging. The Maroon, on whom he landed, said the Badger merely pulled his nose. T\niereupon the umpire apologized, and there was a big purity banquet, or something, in the evening. The press said it was a fine example of clean athletics. If it .were our case, "A Notre Dame player slugs," done in black, bulky type would be the view-point. 
^A s a disinterested third, we put the question to you, Marquette: Was it a passion for pure athletics or a case of weak knees with Michigan? Honest now! 
.The fellows "came back" at Milwaukee. They came back frovi Milwaukee also, but several delayed pass plays were used in the inarch to the home goal. 
*** 

Certain students returning late after Thanks­giving have returned, paradoxically speaking. *** 
Will somebody distinguish between ball, prom, hop, cotillion? How is cotillion pro­
nounced?  Was  the  soph  affair  a  cotillion?  
By  what  must  you divide  cotillion  to  reduce  
it  to  a  dance?  
***  

"Shoveling off demerits. Stony?" "No, you fool, just sprinkling roses." 

SCHOLASTIC 
Xmas xams, will be the Faculty's holiday gift to the students. We trust the beloved Faculty will not be lavish in the matter of giving. 
Ralph Dimmick has some courage to pick an all-hall team and still stick around. *** AULD ACOUAINTANCE. "Both sides presented strong arguments" in the Brownson Literary Societ)^ "The lecture was highly interesting and instructive" according to our dramatic reporter. 
"Although our men were outweighed twenty pounds to the man, we," etc., etc.—Football News. 
"The snow storm indeed spread gloom over the campus." O you gloom! "The plans for a battalion are fast being 
realized." Secunduvi Joannem Murph}'-. "Orchestra practice at 7:30 p. m." "The sun cast his rays on mother earth and 
made all nature smile." Nine rahs for old Sol! 
John TuUy contributes the suggestion that John Bell might make a valuable addition to the Chimes. We reckon the Chimes is reasonably well furnished with belles, John. Thanks, how­ever, for your thoughtfulness in the matter. 
Come into the garden, Noud, for the dark bat Night is flown; Come into the garden, Noud, I am here at the gate alone. 
We notice from a newspaper clipping that young Edward H. Schwab explains his present lack of fame to the fact that for the past ten years he has been buried at Notre Dame. 
Alas! poor Yorick. 
Calendar. 

Sunday, Dec. 4—Band practice after mass " Holy Cross Literary Society " Brownson Literary Society " St. Joseph Literarj' Society Monda}-, Dec. -5—Band practice at 12:30 
" Orchestra practice Tuesday, Dec. 6—Rehearsal of Glee Club 7:00 p. m. Wednesday, Dec. 7—Civil Engineering Society 
" Philopatrian Society Thursday, Dec. 8—Feast of the Immaculate Concep­tion. No classes. " Band practice after mass Friday, Dec. 9—^Band practice at 12:30 p. m. 
Local Items. 

—Great weather for our soldiers. —Has anyone heard from the juniors lately? —Examinations will be held on the 20th and 
2ist of December. —^The minims attended mass in a body on the feast of St. Andrew. —^All report a good time at the cotillion. The sophs were in their glor>-. —Between the new uniforms and the cap and gown, the seniors are kept busy. 
—^The toboggan slide affords all kinds of fun for the 3'-ounger element in this sliding weather. —Corby, not being satisfied with honors won 
on the gridiron, is now organizing a literary-society. 
—^Accommodations have been secured for the Staff's Christmas contributions. They are due to-day. 
—Great revolution on the Walsh tables in the refector}'-. Many of the heads were de­throned. 
—The members of the dramatic club are hard at work on the play to be presented President's day. 
—Special examination essays, society debates, orations cause an overflow of truth-seekers to the librar}'- these days. 
—^The next SCHOLASTIC will be the Christ­mas issue which will come out on Saturday, December 17. 
—^There was no regular meeting of the En­gineejing Society on Wednesday, owing to the sophomore dance. 
—^The Notre Dame avenue may be paved some time. Meantime it would stand a couple hundred loads of gravel. 
—B. H. Lange is the artist of the cover for this issue of the SCHOLASTIC. He is now work­ing on a cover for Christmas. 
—It would be well for some of the students to keep in mind the rule against smoking in front of the Main- Building. 
—" Gene" Connelly has been appointed coach of the Carroll indoor baseball team and Lee Matthews of tlieir basket-ball team. 
—^The snow proved a blessing to many fellows whose demerits had run up close to 


SCHOLASTIC 
the danger line. The snow shovels made an opening and got the flood approaching the normal height. 
—^As we go to press the snow is still falling. Several poems are due on the subject. We consider it only fair to prepare you. 
—CarroU hall is rejoicing over the winning of the middle class championship in football. Fine work, Carroll. Remember we look to you for otu: future. 
—Confessors were kept busy Thursday even­ing with a large throng of student penitents. On Friday morning all approached to receive Holy Communion. 
—^The next time you see us we expect to have the pleasure of presenting you some Christmas literature. 'Twill be worth reading, you may be sure. 
—^The bugler of the military company has at last succeeded in emitting the official army calls. Bugler was first heard at this office yesterday at 1:30 p. m. 
—^The sophomore affair proved a set back to the SCHOLASTIC. Many of the editors got foolish and went to the dance. Copy was a rare com­modity the next morning. 
—^The secret of the high bowling score at Walsh hall has been discovered. Hereafter, those that go beyond the chalk line will be guilty of a foul. Now who will pay? 
—^The news that Corby is about to form a literary society will dispel the idea 'that the braves are merely athletes. Even the bookies haven't made a start in that direction. 
—^The other day Brother Hugh had to call on two workmen to help him break up an old piano that was first used in 1878. They say it was made of mahogany, and cost eight hundred dollars in its palmy days. We have our doubts. 
—^The junior class herein formally and definitely challenges the senior class to meet in a game of basket ball some time in the near future. They agree to play under A. A. U. inter-collegiate or "Mules & Colonels" rules, whichever the challenged party may choose. 
—^The Brownson gym is the scene of some lively hand-ball contests these days, as Paul Rush would put it. Madden, Soisson [Note by Monotype man: Which? there are four or five Soissons on the student list?], Hinde, Daly, "Nemo" et alii, engage in splendid exhibitions. 
—^Lee Matthew's "Review of the Season" will soon' be out. It will contain individual pictures of all the varsit}'' football men and of the interhall champs. In this he also makes known his choice for the all-hall football team. Reports claim it to be the "hit" of the seasohl 
—Owing to some serious mistake of some-bod}- in some department the shield that held the electric numerals of the sophomore class could not be found on tlie day before the big cotillion (i. e. dance). The boat people blaine the electricians, the electricians blame the boat people. At all events, the blame thing is lost, and Al Ke^^s can't get head or tail to the whole business. 
Athletic Notes. 
VARSITY PLAYS WONDERFUL GAME. On Thanksgiving afternoon the Varsity met its old-time rival, Marquette, at Milwaukee, and after one of the hardest fought struggles of the year succeeded in holding tlie strong Wis­consin aggregation to a tie score. The^field was a sea of mud and for a time it was thought the game would have to be postponed, but after much application of sawdust this idea was discarded, and the Thanksgiving custom between Marquette and Notre Dame^^was carried through. The first half was Notre Dame's from the start, and it was at this time that we scored our only touchdown. "W^hile this score was made on a fumble by the Marquette tackle the fact that the Varsity had brought the play within ten yards of Marquette's goal line makes the .result earned, rather than an accident. Marquette started the second half strong, and a series of forward passes and line bucks brought them within one yard of the Varsitj'^'s goal. Brennan, who was a member of the Notre Dame squad last season, went through the line for the necessary distance, and the score was tied. Time and again after that the ball was dangerously near the Notre Dame goal, but each time the men of the gold and blue by the finest of defensive work staved off another score and a defeat. The first quarter of the second half ^3s as much Marquette's as was the first Notre Dame's. Toward the close of the game Captain Hanley's man took advantage of the darkness and put through a variety of forward passes 
and^trick plays which netted many gains, but fumbles prevented scores. 
The contest afforded Dorias, the freshman star, a chance to displa)'- his wonderful ability as a quarterback. It was thought earlier in the season that the former Chippewa Falls high school man had not the experience to direct the team this ^'•ear, but his work in tlie Mar­quette struggle demonstrated beyond the shadow of a doubt that he possesses natural ability when it comes to handling the destinies of a football team. His punting far outclassed that of Voelkel, the Veteran Marquette man, and his running back punts proved the feature of the afternoon. Collins in playing his last game for Notre Dame put up a grand exhibition. His running under punts drew much attention from the bleachers. Martin covered himself with glory when he recovered Elsen's fumble and crossed the line for the Varsity's only score. Dimmick and Philbrook played their last game and fought to the last ditch against the mighty tackles, Klsen and Hanley. Ever)'- man on the team played a most brilliant game as is evident 
from  the  score:  
NOTRE  DAME  (5)  MARQUETTE  (5)  
Martin  .  R. E.  Curtin, Capwell  
Dimmick  R. T.  Elsen  
Kelly  R. G.  ^IcCusker  
Foley  C.  Westenhagen  
Oaas j  L. G.  Housley  
Philbrook  L. T.  Hanley, Thackeray  
Collins  L. E.  Brennan  
Dorias  Q. B.  Schaller  
Clippinger  R. H.  Waldron, Mehegan  
Matthews  L. H.  Voelkel  
Stansfield,  McGrath  F. B.  Munsell  

Touchdowns—^Martin, Brennan. Umpire—Kelley, Princeton. Referee—Snow, Michigan. Head lines­man—Dr. Ingham, Nebraska. Time of periods— Fifteen minutes. 
BASKET-BALL. 
Coach Maris' call for basket-ball material was responded to by seventeen men. Among the old men reporting are Fish, Maloney, Ulatowski, Walsh, Burke, McNicol and Lynch. At the present, prospects look bright, but the coach is anxiously looking for a capable centre. The season will open here with Lewis Institute on the loth of December, followed by Hull House Club of Chicago on the 17th. 
The call for track men will be issued some time next week. The first meet in which Notre Darne competes will be the First Regiment of Chicago, on the 21st of January. 



Ch ^'^-ji^—*-G" 
Dotre Dame Scholastic 
Dlsee 9V/ASI-SSmpee-ViCTVev/S• • VIVS ^VASI- CRAS-MORlTVRxyS-
VOL. XLV. NOTRB DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 9, 19". No. 12. 
Review of the.Football Season. 

JOHN P. MURPHY, 'l2 , 
Manager of Athletics. 
^Jj^JlTK the opening of oar football season, of 1911 conditions were • not alto­gether roseate. Although the coach's 

call for candidates was forty men, nevertheless, they were, for the most part, inexperienced hope­fuls. Despite this handi­cap the coach set to work and by the time the few old men of last year arrived he had given our enthusiasts cause to predict the successful season that has resulted. 
That the season has been a successful one few will gainsay. Not only have we been suc­cessful in closing our season without a defeat, but we have been success­ful in many other ways. Not the least of these is the fact that Marks has been building up and perfecting a squad that should carry Notre Dame through next season with even .a better record than that of 1909., In the coming year we are for­
 answered by about 

MANAGER JOHN MURPHY such perfect team work who has shown judgment and discretion 
as that exhibited by 


in handling the football situation. * 
tunate in. losing but two men of this year's team. It is indeed true that the loss of these two men will be severely felt, but we have reason to believe, from conditions this year that their places will be well filled. Another success of this season, and one which is^ peculiarly interesting locally, is the fact 
that so many past inter-hall stars have "made 
good" on the Varsity. It is to the interhall 
teams we rightly look for our Varsity material. 
Our season's work has amply demonstrated 
 that the men who "make good" en hall teams 
can also "make good" on the Varsity. The causes for these successes are many, 
but perhaps the most potent is the wcrk of the men who have had to do with the coaching and training of the squad. Coach Marks came to'us well recommended, not only as an indefatigable worker but also as one who would give his men a square deal. He has come up to expectations in both recommendations. He began his^ work by winning the confidence of the squad and retained it throughout the season. Such perfect control had he of his men thjat he was respected and obeyed on all occasions.. . His coaching has received the recognition it deserves throughout the country. The Milwaukee' papers stated that never before had any team displayed 
Notre Dame on Thanks­ giving day. This is surely high praise. To Maris, otff trainer, is also due a consider­able share of the laurels won this season. He has proved to all of us^ how necessary and helpftil a trainer can be. Although the work of a trainer is not so noticeable to the general 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
observer as- that of the Wabash and the the coach, neverthe­Marquette games. At less, it is just as essen­the former he gave tial. The squad this the men a talk between year was the largest halves that sent them in the history of the out on the field again school but despite this, with the determina­there were less injuries, tion that finally won and the men were kept the game. in the best of condi­In the Marquette tion. We have finished game I,uke Kelly our season ^rithout a closed his football ca­serious mishap. reer at Notre Dame. 
Don Hamilton, as­Ever since Luke first sistant coach, was reported for the team another big asset in four years ago he the year's work. Many proved himself a valu­a member of the squad able man. It seems owes his position on though that his past the team to Don's three years were spent cheering words of en­in preparing himself couragement. Were it for this 3'^ear's work. not for the clever work Notre Dame has reg­put up by the second istered some mighty team perhaps our suc­men at the tackle posi­cesses would be greatly tion, but none of them diminished. Another have shown work su­feature of Don's work perior to that of Luke's was the spirit which this year; time and he instilled into the again has he been the men. An instance of cause of preventing a 
TH E COACH 
this was seen at both score made upon us 
who has made an army of friends. 
and of opening up holes in the opposing line to allow us to score. Not only as a player has he made a reputation but also as a captain. He proved himself a valuable aid to Coach Marks in practice and in the game. His natural reticence was forgotten with the sound of the whistle and he fought every inch of ground. It may safely be said that he never lost an opportunity to gain an advantage or to secure a right for his team that he believed belonged to him. 
A feature that deserves especial notice in any review of the seascn is the perfect harmcny that existed in the squad. Ccaches, trainer, captain and men worked together in the mcst friendly relations. Every man seemed to give his best and receive in turn his just due. Another feature that made cur season more enjoyable was the receptions the team received at the hands of our Alumni and friends in 
the different cities we visited. This is especially 
CAPTAIN LUKE KELLY Ass'T COACH HAMILTON 

true of the Alumni of Pittsburg. Our gratitude also 
who played his last game for who talked fight into the Notre Dame Thanksgiving. goes out to all our friends who in any way aided us men between quarters. 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
in making this season's work tell. With the prospects of a good team and a good schedule, our next football season should be even n-cre successful. 
This Year's Team. 
JOHN F. O'CONNELL, '13, 
Editor Varsity Athletics. 

The season of 1911 has gone the way of all seasons, and it only remains to say in passing that it has been successful beyond our hopes. W^ile it would have been more satisfactory to be victors over Pittsburg and Marquette, still we were not defeated by either,rival and that affords no small mete of consolation. Coaches, managers and trainer Bert Maris have worked harmoniously for the good of 
TRAINER BERT MARIS to whom is due tbe top notch condition of the, men during the season 

•ASSIST. MGR. WM. COTTER who arranged the basketball and track schedules 
the team. Of the players it may be truly said that each man gave the best he had. 
LUKE KELLY, Captain 
(Tackle). ­

The best player on the team, and one of the best turned out by Notre Dame in recent years. His work in the Pittsburg, Wabash and Marquette games was a fitting exhibition by the leader of the 1911 squad. At breaking through the opposing line, in run­ning down punts and in stopping any play directed at his side of GEORGE PHILBROOK 
x-L^ 1: „ T 1 J whose place •will be difficult 
the line, Luke proved ^ a, „^,t year. 


i8o THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Q
'< 
P
a 
to 
CO Pi <5 > 


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC i8i 
himself so capable as to win a place on the All-State selection by Coach Heze Clarke, and a position on the second AU-Westem team picked by the Chicago Daily News. 
GEORGE PHILBROOK (Tackle). The giant tackle rounded out his football career by an exhibition of play equal in every respect to the showing which won him the All-Western honor two years ago. It was necessary to use him in but two games, Pitts­burg and Marquette, although Coach Marks permitted him to work out in one minor college contest. "Phil" proved a wonder at getting away with forward passes over the line, his height aiding him in obtaining the ball. This is his last year. ToRGUs OAAS (Guard). In a position where merit passes unnoticed, while faults shine with added lustre, Oaas went through the season in the same consistent manner with which he played the first game. Late in arriving at school it required but two days to convince the coach of his right to a position in the line, and until the end there was no change. This is his second year. 
CHARLES E. DORIAS (Quarterback). 

Dorias 'proved himself last year, and his arrival shortly after the opening of the practice season was hailed by the knowing ones as a sign of what was to follow. One of the headiest men on the team his direction of the eleven brought forth all the strength of the squad. The Marquette game gave him the best oppor­tunity of displajring his worth, his tackling . alone preventing certain touchdo\vns. Accurate at forward passes, clever in dodging and a good punter, another year will see Dorias in the running for All-Western quarterback, a position conceded him by many who had the opportunity to compare his work with that of the best Conference men. Tiis is his second 
year on the team. 
CHARLES F . CROWLEY (End). Another second year man who gained even greater glory than was won during his first season at Notre -Dame is Charlie Crowley. Showing unusual speed at going down imder punts, and in smashing up opposing inter­ference, Crowley satisfied football authorities throughout the state of his superiority over all other claimants fcr the All-State position. Cool and determined, his work stampis him 
as one of the best ends seen on the local gridiron in years. Crowley is a junior in law and has another year to play. 
K. RocKNE (End). A fit companion for Crowley and a close rival for All-State honors, Rockne landed the' end position early in the season. Tackling was his strong forte, and in this department he equalled any man on the team. Although one of the lightest men on the squad—^he weighs but 156 pounds—^no opponent was too fierce nor any interference too strong to deter his smashing plunges. This is his first year. RAY EICHENLAUB (Fullback). The heaviest man on the team, the best punter and the most consistent line plunger, a first-year man who upset all traditions by taking a place at the opening of the season and holding it without fear of loss until the end, "Eich" was one of the finds of the season. Carrying 195' pounds of brawn he made himself feared in every contest in which the gold and blue engaged. This is his first year, but it 
proved him one of the stars, and he should be invaluable during the coming seasons. 
A. BERGER (Halfback). 

"Heinie" combines the .speed of a track star with the beef of an ideal gridiron hero. Discovered by "Don" Hamilton he demon­strated early in the season that the eulogies of the ex-Varsity quarterback were not based on mythical viitues. A lo second man, and weighing 185 pounds, Berger showed up well around the ends as well as through the line. This, is his first year on the eleven. 
E. J. HARVAT (Guard). Built close to the ground and carrying no superfluous fat, Harvat is one of the most deceiving men on the eleven. Under the coaching of the captain he developed into a splendid guard, his 188 potmds providing an impenetrable defense, while his work on oflfense ranked him with the regulars early in the season. "Speedy" won interhall honors for Brownson two years ago, but this is his maiden eflFcrt in college football. He will be back next year. ALBERT FEENEY (Center). Feeney put in his first year on the team this fall and played a strong, consistent game. His work at Wabash was sensational and: drew 
favorable comments from several scribes in the selection of the All-State team. Coach 

I82 THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Marks tried him out at guard early in the 
season, but his accurate passing made him 
preferable for center. He is a junior lawyer 
and will be back next year. 
JOSEPH PUSKA (Halfback). 
• Backfield material seemed at a discount early, in the season because of the amount of it, but the value of a good thing can never be destroyed. Pliska was a man whose value increased as time went on. Line plunging was his forte, and his showing in the three big games places him on a par with the best of his mates. This is his first year of college football. 
WILLIAM KELLEHER (Halfback). One of the most reliable substitutes on tibie squad, and the only man sent into the Mar­quette game after the beginning of play, " Bill" is gameness personified. A sure tackier, a fair punter, one of the best defensive players in the backfield, and a marvel at squirming through the line, he has made an enviable record in his first year at Notre Dame. Bill played his prep football at Columbia Academy Portland, Oregon. ,K. JONES (Fullback, Center). Jones was a victim of an unfortunate state of affairs. Possessing ability which would easily have earned him a regular place tmder ordinary circumstances, he was prevented from landing a regular berth by the prowess of heavier men. His defensive work ,in the Pittsburg game was one of the really good things of the season. ALFRED BERGMAN (Halfback). The fastest man on the team, wfiose. record 

The All-Hall 
of yardage gained by him alone almost equals 
the total gains of the balance of the team for 
the entire season. Bergman went as far as 
the law allowed in one of the minor games when 
he received the baU back of the goal posts and 
carried it the length of the field for a touchdown. 
His dodging was stellar, but his lack of weight 
worked against him toward the end of the 
season. 
Yund and Larson in the line, McGinnis and Dolan on the ends, Lee at quarterback and Mc­Grath at fullback furnished a group of sub­stitutes whose playing; was but little below that of the regulars. McGrath was unfortunate in that a wrenched neck-kept him out of the game for nearly two weeks and the.handicap prevented him from doing his: best. He took part in the Pittsburg battle, and played a fine defensive game. 
One would like to mention every member of the squad since every member of the squad has a share in the glory of those who made the Varsity. But a limited space is allotted me, and those whom I can not mention individually may well rest satisfied with the place they hold in. the hearts of every loyal rooter. 
The mention of " rooter" recalls to mind those who played our games from the side-lines. This year the organization of the students' rooting assodation had the effect of. quicken­ing enthusiasm at the home contests. Let the organization continue by all means. I think I. have mentioned them all—players, subs, the whole squad, the rooters. Yes, I have mentioned them all, for. the coaches and managers are not'in my province: 
 Selection. 

DONALD M. HAMILTON, '12 {AssH VoTsity Coock). 
FIRST TEAM. SECOND TEAM.,-\ 
Carmody. (Corby), left end; ^ • -Baujah (Walsh), ; left end; ' . '. 
Bartd (St. Joseph), left tackle; Slmiighnjcssy (Walsh),- left. tsicJde; ^ ^ 
Dunphy (Brownson), left guard; f Dew (Browison), ;-:l^t.:~g|iiard; . . ; -
Heyr (Corby), oenter; O'Brien. (St/ J«se0i), cdit^;^^^;: / 
Hicks (St. Joseph), right guard; ^ Fowler ::(Btowrisan),;'n^t• :gu^ ; : 
McDonald (Corby), right:,tackie; ~,; Kbbiiiisoii V (StC- Joseph),5ng^t|fe 
H. Newning (Walsh), ^ri^tiend; .c;^ ^ Mc^dipl: (Wjalsh)v captain,'quarter:4b^ ?Lyan XBro^nMSoy^./^^ Guishu^t (Corby), left: l«d^-l>ack; v ^: ^Ka^;q^iJJ«Dy^^^ 
:Malcmey (St.? Joseph), rightihalf^^^ Howard (St: Joseph) .fifll-b ^ WiiUams:!^l(Brpw^^ i f" .v^; 
-%'o<--^t?. 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
183 

Never before has interhall athletics lirought remarkable thing about Corby's success this forth such keen competition and good-natured year is the fact that Father Farley's "Braves" rivalry among the students residing in the I won the bunting without crossing their op­different' halls as has this past football season. -ponents' goal line once, and by scoring only 
Such interest speaks well for the future Varisity; teams, as many points have been learned this fall by the younger men which will help them in the years to come. May the rest of: the school year bring forth the same honest rivalry that has been shown in the football season just past. 
Following a time-honored custom of selecting an all-hall eleven at the end of each football season, the time is now at hand to honor die players who have done the best and most consistent playing dming the intef-hall series.; The men selected for this honorary team-have been picked not because of their playing in one contest, but "the selection is based on the performances of the players in all the struggles after a careful and thorough review of their efforts by the different coaches. 
Picking an all-hall eleven is, beset with difficulties, as some of the men, who, ho doubt, would have made this mythical eleven, were barred during the season by the faculty board. I might mention for instance Elwood of Brown-son and Mehlem and Finnegan of' Corby. 
While there always is a difference of opinion in these selections, they must be:made without prejudice, and the work of ieach player must, be considered carefully. The hard, effective checking, boxing of opponents, ability to size^ up quickly the opposing team's method ' of attack, varying of charges by the liuemen/i the power and drive of the backs,, and maihy other points, have been considered in selecting the personnel of this eleven. The meti^cMl pur-.­sued in choosing the team ' was; asr follows: Bach coach chose, a first and second -teamVT with a captain.for each--eiinunating'fr6m his choice all membors of.his own squad: Thai, the choice fdl to the man. rec^ying the highest number of votes. Members of the Sorhi: hall-squad were not included xa.the candidate's for the ^ all-hall team be<^use of the ;fact tiiat they did not finish' the season, and thus.fafled to show their ability. ;•.; ^ 

nine points—a drop kick each by Hebner and McDonald, and a place kick by Dotiovan. Yet credit .must be given to the Corby team for its pluck and determination in rallying and coming back strong after its most valuable moi had been barred by the faculty boa^d. . To Mike Carmody of Corby goes the position of left end'^because of his tmdisputed, brilliant work from the start of the season. ;^ He is . aggressive, and brainy, and is a splendid man going down the field under kicks. He i& cool and collected, a hard and sharp tackier, .and in addition,'he is an adept.at handling forward passes and in boxing his tackle. Baujan of Walsh, and Mike's running mate, Donovan, are both veiy clever, and very fast, but are slightly inferior/to Carmody and Harry Newning, and>so"^have been placed on the second team. 
At left tackle w»U be found Bartel of St. Joseph's ball. He is an extremely hard man to box, because-of his aggressiveness and shifti­ness; an excellent man to giet behind his oppo­nents' line to block kicks or forwafd passes, or to get an opposing runner before he had started; and going down the field he was very 

; fast: In Addition, he was a good man to open holes in the opposing line. This comlMnatipn of qiidlities-wonhun his coveted position. ­-Duhphy. of Brownson is given the position of left guard, and although he played an ex­ceedingly, good game at half, the abundance of backsand the dearth of linemen caused the coaches to: select' Dunphy as guard. He is 
^ not new; to this position, as he has played the Une before. Dunphy is big, strong, ..fast; :^tid is an excellent defensive man who caii e^ily hold up his end of the battie. He has ^also the drive; and push necesssuy to a good lin^nan, and is a safe niiEai; to have by the side of the snapper-back.. Tieniey, Dinnen,. O'Rouirke and Dew iuie also .^>od -guards, but lack the requisite aiap. and dai^.'. 
•,.•_..Captain Heyl',of Cwby is chosen centi^ on this mythical devoi; ^od^he justly desorycs 
mmm 
The Corby ha^^ team again won ^ the flag,:\the placel His psaamg^^ vhi^ been^^^^^^^ going througli the s^uson "mt^^ a' loss and reprqadi; ..and htiyfaslA.ta^^tasax retaining a p«fedt; ayierage of 1000. True,-- dqWn the fidd under' ldcfe^-*H4?;wa^ tiie Brownson hoys j^tiedothem. 37^3, butSme : at^full during part of tife^SfcvJ^o^^ VBrownies". lost. tbXthe; Walsh squad; .Whic^^^ >£^Bme; :and he'did exceedingly:lt^^ m turn }was: diEl[€^t«d.;by;^e^^^^^ iButt Mart's bestX • asset .:as. ;7a> 
, ;-^m&fS:-s; 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
i84 
• tc 
C 
< 
o 
< 
W 
.J 
a 
P9 O 
o 

Ivv­
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
was his defensive ability. Playing a loose 
center, he figured in practically every play, 
and his hard and deadly tackling contributed' 
largely to Corby's success in going through the 
season \\ithout a defeat. Hence Heyl is the 
choice for the pivotal position. O'Brien of 
St. Joseph and White of Walsh played well, 
but after due consideration, the choice fell 
to Heyl. 
Bill Hicks of St Joseph hall is the pick 

for right guard, and is the best lineman in 
school, as well as being the fastest charging 
fonvard among the hall ir.en. At times his 
eagerness cost his team a few yards, but Bill's 
defensive and ofi"ensive work more than offset 
this fault. Full of fight, brainy, and possessed 
of an ability to follow the ball. Hicks is certainly 
worthy of being in the line-up. 
On the side cf the line opposite to Bartel, 

Joe McDonald has been selected to play right 
tackle. Joe is an excellent (defensive man 
who tackles hard and low. His best asset is 
his kicking ability, being good at either punting, 
drop kicking or placement. He opens holes 
very well for his backs, and is fair at throwing 
a forward j>ass. He won the championship 
for his team by his toe-work, and is properly 
entitled to the place. Other good tackles are 
Robinson of St. Joseph's who is a hard 
-vorker all the time, Shaughnessy of Walsh 
and Fowler of Brownson. 
The position of right end goes to Captain Harry Newning of Walsh. He is, without a doubt, the best end on the hall teams. Silent and reserved, Harry "delivered the goods." He is a clean, hard and consistent player. His speed and ability to judge punts enabled him many times to drop the opposing backs in their tracks. Harry tackled low and hard, and often got his man for a loss. • He was a very clever man also in receiving forward passes and blocking his tackle or end. 
Dan McNichol of Walsh is easily the best quarter-back in interhall circles this year. No one is near him in ability to run a team. To McNichol may be attributed a very large part of the success of the Walsh team. He was a bundle of nerve; fast, brainy, an excellent forward passer^—one who knew how, Avhen and where to pass the ball—and quick to size up opponents' defense. In open field-running, too, McNichol outclassed any man in the halls; and his'magnificent and thrilling run of 115 yards froin behind his own goal for a toudidown showed that he has nerve, pluck and brains 
enough to run our mythical, all-hall eleven. 
He is a grand defensive player, 'and no one 
backed up his line more brilliantly than did 
"Fish." Then, too, he is a fair kicker. With 
McDonald doing the punting, drop and place 
kicking, and -McNichol booting on-side kicks, 
the all-hall eleven would be well fortified in 
the toe department. And because of Dan's 
sterling qualities as a "footballer" in every 
respect, fie has been selected as captain of this 
eleven, and no one doubts that he will 
fill the bill in an acceptable manner. 
Ryan of Brownson and Kane of St. Joseph's 

were both excellent men, but the unusual 
ability of McNichol made it impossible for these 
men to place. 
Gushurst, the gritty, speedy, plunging half­

back froin Corby, is awarded the left half-back 
position. Besides being a powerful line bucker, 
he can drive off tackle in a dashing way that 
is certain to result in a substantial gain. -On 
defense he is equally strong, and being an earnest, 
hard-working fellow, is the logical choice. 
Harvat of Walsh, Williams and Nowers of 
Brownson, and Bensberg and Soisson of Corby 
are all good men, but our choice is limited. 
"Buck" Maloney of St. Joseph is chosen 
as Gushurst's running mate, and he can easily 
fill the bill. He is probably the best half-back 
of the year .in carrying the ball on end runs, 
and as an open-field runner ranks with the best 
of the other hall men. He is a good defensive, 
man with speed and weight, and is an excellent 
man in returning punts. Maloney is a good 
interceptor of forward passes, and in interfering 
for his team-mates he has few equals. 
Howard of St. Joseph is the best full-bgck of the season. He was handicapped by sick­ness the early part of the season, and was thus unable to show to his best advantage. Possess­ing weight, speed, and plunging ability, "Del" was an exceedingly hard man to stop. He is a veritable battering-ram, and is the best man for the position he won. On defense ,he is a tower of strength, tackling hard, intercept-' irig forward passed nicely, and running inter­ference in a valuable manner. 
There were" many other good half-backs as well as other good linemen and ends, biit they all can not be placed on the first team,.so li second team is named also, on wludi Dcmovan, Ryan, and' Kane would do the kicking and forward passing. 
i86 -THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 



Notre Dame Scholastic 
Entered as Second-Class Kail Matter 
Pablished evety Saturday during the School Term at th9 University of Notre Dame 
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid 

Address: The Editor Notre Dame Scholastic 
Sotre Dame, Indiana 
Vol. XLV. December 9, 1911. ' No. 12. Board of Editors. 
JOHN  P. MURPHY,  'l 2  EDWARD  J. HOW.\RD,  'l 2  
PATRICK  A. B.'^RRY,  ' I 2  RUSSELL  G.  FINN,  'l 2  
CYRIL  J. CURR.^N,  'l 2  WILLIAM  J. MILROY,  '1 3  
SIMON  E. TWINING,  '1 3  JOHN  F. O'CONNELL,  '1 3  
LOUIS  J.  KILEY,  '1 3  M.\URICE  NORCKAUER,  '14  

—^The SCHOLASTIC'S editorial on the proper way to pronounce the name of our University has attracted considerable attention from the press. After quoting what we had to say 
about variant pronunciations, The Press on for example, the editor of the Our Name. A^ew World says: 
"Now the editor of the New World has given much time and thought to orthoepy, and pronounces Notre Dame—one of the best equipped and most up-to-date CathoUc universities in America. As long as it holds this enviable position we don't suppose that its popular and energetic President cares where the accent falls." 
—The football season which came to a dose Thanksgiving day has been remarkable in many respects. A new team, new coaches, new managers faced the The Pull-Together new problems which are Spirit peculiar to every, year. Yet not in our athletic history have the new and untried worked to­gether so harmoniously. The men who coached and the men who managed,and the men who played exemplified in a remarkable way the strength-in-unity, the pull-together spirit, or any other saw that will convey the notion of cohesive effort. The coaches kept a large squad continually on the jump, till the very last whistle sounded out the iend of the season. 

There was no dearth of players, hence no man was sure of his position. For all that, into the competition for places no ill-feeling or bitter­ness entered. No one doubts that Marks, and Hamilton, who assisted him, taught the team of 1911 a great deal about football; and next year when practically the same team takes up the game no one will fail to credit this knowledge to these tvvo men. 
Of the team itself the students and alumni of this school are very proud. ;The players showed the clean, square, hard fight character­istic of Notre Dame. They had no bad names to call opponents, no disagreeable after stories of mistreatment. Two—Philbrook and Kelly— played their last game in Milwaukee Thanks­giving. Their going will mean the last of the g^eat team of '09. We Avill miss them, the last of that gallant band, of whom one, we hope, is home with God. 
Managers Murphy and Cotter are faithful workers who may be trusted to handle difficult situations that arise in their positions with tact and judgment. They have already proved by their good services that they are worthy of the high trust placed upon them. 
—^The SCHOLASTIC does not know what are the purposes of the athletic boards of either Notre Dame or Marquette about a football game next year. It speaks for itself, 
therefore, and not for A Ghost in flie Attic them. It hopes that 
neither institution will decide to discontinue the annual football game which has quickened so much wholesome rivalry between the two schools. Both schools should know by this time—and probably do know—^that the mid-west universities have built up an athletic trust of which they are not, and may not be, members. Educationally, athletically, ethically, no good reason can be given why they should be discriminated against. It is un-American and suggests the presence of a ghost in the attic we had thought banished. 
All this, we are well aware, will not change the minds of those who govern athletics in the tmiversities of the mid-West. But it should bind Notre Dame and the Milwaukee school closer together athletically; it should set them to formulating set rules and policies for the direction of their athletic relations. It should imify thein, and make the fight against the discriminatiqn more ..^bearable. 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
President's Day Festivities. 
CHURCH SERVICES. The day on which we elected to honor ^our President showed due appreciation for the distinction conferred; for Wednesday came in with a blue sky and a sun that June might be proud of. Thanks to Wednesday; we will remember the day for next year. At eight o'clock Rev. Father Cavanaugh sang the traditional solemn high mass of the day in the Sacred Heart Chinch, assisted by the Vice-president, Father Walsh, and by Father Schumacher, director of studies. The Very Rev. Father Provincial and a number of the local clergy were present in the sanctuary The seminarians' choir rendered a very creditable musical program, the Offertory selection and the solo, Veni Jesu, being particularly good. MILITARY INSPECTION. At ten o'clock in the gymnasium the Pres­ident and the officers of the University, accom­panied by Captain Stogsdall, instructor in Military Science and Tactics, and his staff, inspected the battalion. The student soldiers in their gray uniforms presented a splendid appearance. It was especially gratifying to notice the military bearing of the company coipposed of the elder Carroll hall boys. The President expressed himself as very much pleased with the showing of the companies. The band, which is fully equal to that of last year, played a nmnber of excellent pieces during the inspection. . DINNER AT NOON. President's day without an appropriate dinner would lose no little of its charm for the under­graduate. The chicken days are marked \vith red numerals in his calendar. There was no disappointment in store for him this time, either. It was a typical Notre Dame banquet, with the addition of excellent music. The University orchestra under Prof. Petersen's direction carried out its part of the program veiy satisfactorily. In the Brownson refectory the President's table and those near it were reserved for the faculty and visitors. Of the latter there were many, some of whom had come from great distances. The following were among the guests: Judge Anderson, Rev. Dean O'Brien, Rev. John Guendling, Dr. Dinnen, Mr. C. H. Fosset, Mr. Marvin Campbell, Mr. J.. Stude-. 

baker, Mr. D. Gulfoyle, Rear Admiral Dayton, Mr. Charles A. Carlisle, Hon.-Charles L. Goetz, Rev. John DeGroote, Mr. P. O'Brien, Mr. Joseph Sullivan, Mr. V. Jones, Mr. F. H. Wurzer, Mr. William Moore, Mr. William A. Mclnemey, Rev. John Wall, Dr. Stoekley, Mr. F. L. Suns, Dr. Sensenick, Mr. Frank Minphy, Mr. Max Adler, Rev. Father Schramm, Mr. O. Bastian, Dr. Ohiey, Dr. Lucas, Mr. T. M. Hoban, Rev. Father Welsh, Rev. Father Martin, Mr. William O'Neil, Mr. T. Harley, Mr. S. Adler, Dr. Berteling, ]\Ir. George Senrich, Dr. Powers, Mr. J. A. Wood, Rev^ Father Regan, C. S. P., Mr. John Weber, Mr. W. D. O'Brien, and Rev. Dr. John P. Thillmann. 
ADDRESS AND RESPONSE. 

The largest President's day audience in some years assembled in Washington hall to witness the presentation of "The Redemption of Jimmy Anson." Previous to the play the following address of greeting was delivered by Russell Finn, president of the senior class: 
That institution which represents to man his own well-being which lives for him and identifies itself with his existence, demands unswerving fidelity' to its ideals. For this reason, that loyalty is engen­dered which finds expression in the heart of a student. Not alone with the fleeting impulse of enthusiasm, but with a purer inspiration of genuine affection does the college man embrace the ideals of his Alma Mater. The love which a man bears with him when he forsakes the tender graces of his college life is a love which will never die, against which the destructive hand of time can never prevail. The love of a student for his college is that which h* bears his native land, partaking of the unselfish devotion of patriotism, for the college- has granted him a full realization of all that is good for him in Ufe. It has opened to him a vista of righteousness and shown him the power of noble achievement. It is there that his hopes have been conceived, there fostered, and thence he goes, dad in the tempered armour of his training to combat and to conquer. 
The man who loves his country loves his home, loves all that is good and is a true man. The loyalty which springs from the heart of such a man is the rarest beauty in all natitre. Because the nation represents to man the parent and protector of all that he possesses, his home, his- love, his liberty and.^ Ms-very life, he is willing to bleed and die for its honor. 
It is with this strong feeling that men commemorate the glorious achievements of a nation and pay tribute, to the memory of those heroes whose sacrifices have lived to' bless the prosperity' of a later day. This same feeling leads the Faculty and students of Notre' Dame to celebrate the glories of the past and, to dg­nahze the triumphs of the present. ­
Wonder, affection, gratitude, possess oar; sbnis-. when we look back upon those men who nearly'seventy 
i88 THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
years ago, through toils and hardships, which only the courage of a saintly heart could endure, brought forth in the hostile wilderness of a new country our Alma Mater. 
To the men of the past we submit the immortal tablets of memory. There is imprinted a story which can not be transmuted, which lies beyond expression, the story of how through years of constant care they nursed the infant mission, of how it grew under their guidance, developed into a college and bloomed at last into the great University which is ours today. Self-sacrifice with no earthly remuneration, un­brolen conformity to the divine principles and in­defatigable zeal for the attainment of sacred ideals are the foundations upon which they have erected this temple of culture and morality. 
To the men of the present, those whom we know from personal experience, whose benevolence and virtue we are made to feel in every day of our college life, who smile with approbation upon our every effort and help us with paternal regard in every difficulty, to them we express the deepest gratitude. Though the debt can never be discharged, we shall strive in sweet remembrance of their unselfish atten­tion, and tender solicitude to repay with lives true to their ideals the sacrifices they have made for us. Not only have they been our professors, not alone advisors and instructors, they have been our sym­pathetic and friendly companions. The cheering smile, the helping hand and familiar words of the President are always eager to encourage and make glad those who approach him. There is 
no student among us but has felt the beauty of his fine character, but has been inspired by his noble example. Even the incessant stream of routine work and the numberless duties that press upon him are turned to the students' advantage, for the good will of Father Cavanaugh and his paternal interest have always been awaiting those who seek hint. Though it is beyond us to pay proper tribute to his character, we can and do pledge him our affection and the University through him our everlasting loyalty, thankifig God that such a man has been 
. given Notre Dame. 
Today, Father Cavanaugh, the University is as­sembled to celebrate the sixth anniversary of your presidency and to congratulate you upon the success and blessings that have attended your administration. If words of praise could be so expressed as to convey their real significance it \A buld then be possible for us to phrase our thought. Our gratitude is our affection, our praise the expression of our loyalty. When this day shall have passed and been numbered among those of the long ago, the pledges we now make will remain fresh in our memory of Alma'Hater. We thank you. Father Cavanaugh, for the blessings you have brought us; we congratulate you upon the . success you have attained and pray that the favor 
of God may smile upon your noble work granting'you the full measure of your reward.. 
In reply Father Cavanaugh thanked idl who had taken part in the evehits offthe day, and in a few stirring and inspiring words lauded the work of his predecessors, . their ^ ^mtiring 
zeal and sdf-sacrifice. The President spoke 
with feeling of the present Faculty, and con­
gratulated them on the successes they have 
achieved for the educational growth of the 
University. He ended by presenting to all 
a vision of the future Notre Dame, gfreater and 
more influential than even today, but cherishing 
and teaching the same noble ideals. 
THE PLAY. 
Of the play one may speak with very little 

of qualifying phrase. The drama itself pre­
sented a good moral, not a preachy moral, to 
be sure, but a good, everyday lesson of struggle 
against temptation and final tritunph. There 
was plot enough to make the story interesting, 
humor enough of the quiet kind to vary light 
with shade—^but a subdued light all the way. 
The actors do not need to throw themselves 

on the mercy of the critic, for they are saved 
by virtue of their own good works.' This 
makes it all the more pleasant for the critic, 
since, let the cynic smile as he will, it is much 
more agreeable to praise than to blame. 
Mr. McGarry as the prison warden was natural, which is the sum and substance of the actor's art. He was a hard, cold man, fitted to his life—a life in which every man is weighed in the balance with all his crimes and sins on the opposite scale. Mr. Hicks as Doyle, the detective, grew on you as the play progressed. He was especially effective in the duel of establishing identity against "Jimmy" and also in the final scene. Mr. Dockweiler was re­served and dignified, and played his role very acceptably. Messrs. Milroy and Galvin, the two pals in wa3^ that are wild, did some clever act­ing at times. Perhaps they made too many gestures, perhaps they were just a trifle too near the conventionial stage "bad"men. But a trifle is -nothing in them who put such vim and movement into their parts. Mr. Daly's German accent might be improved, but again that is a detail which should not be 
too mudi emphasized in view of Mr. Daly's general presentatiim. The hero as handled by Mr. Lynch did not suffer. "Jimmy" may weli be satisfied with Mr. Lynch's reading, which was sincere; and at times strikingly dose to the edge of emotion;. Mr. Finn as Lieutenant Governor Fay played the part with quiet dignity. 
The Iadies>r-ah, yes, the ladies. Here we must be cautious. Ifr.^Twinihig presented a Mrs. Webster th»t made the ladies in. the 
audience suspect we had kidnapped some of the queens from our neighboring school. The lady was Mr. Twining, however, for we saw him before the paints were applied. Mrs. Moore had some trouble with her hat, but hat or no hat she was a lovely little person. We thank Mr. Cox for introducing us. Mr. Birder was calm and serious and gave us a very charming Rose Lane. Perhaps a little more spirit, a little more action, a trifle more of nervous movement would add to Cecil's reading. Mr. Cotter as Smith did not have a part for the development of personality, but he showed in the ladies of the Gate of Hope and Dick the Rat, et alii, with a fine flourish. And then the others, Messrs. Lenihan, Williams, Clark, Robins—^they all showed the effect of careful training; and those two youngsters, Johnny Holden and Lauren Loker, were the sharpest and cleverest performers one could wish to see. 
Father Maloney has done well in his reading of the "Reformation of Jimmy Anson." He worked marvels with his student cast^ as the smoothness of the whole performance fully testified. He has our thanks for the pleasure of the evening. He can fill the house at any future time. 
The stage setting was built here at home, and surely the home manufacture may well be patronized. There were four complete scenes, dnd every one of them showed taste in design and care and construction. Bro. Cyprian and his stage-hands share in our thanks and woids of congratulation. Prof. Petersen was in evidence with an exceptionally good orchestra and added his part to the smoothness of the performance. 
Yes, President's day was remarkable for bright sky and sun, joyous company, and a splendid play. May we have many such. 
THE CAST. 

Warden Handler William Everett McGanry Smith! William Edward Cotter Blickecsdolfenbach Hugh James Daly. Boyle William Joseph Hicks Bill Avery William Joseph Milroy Mrs. Webster .Simon Ercile Twining Mrs. Moore Louis Charles Cox Lieutenant Governor Fay Russell Gregory Finn Rose Lane Cecil Edward Birder Blinky Davis Emmett George Lenihan Dick the jiat .William Joseph Williams Jimmy Anson George Alfred Lynch Spike Flannigan............William Michael Galvih Mi-. Lane. Thomas John Dockwdler Messenger I .George Walker Clarke 


Bobby John Shedd Holden 
• Kitty Lauren Ferguson Loker Clerk of the Bank James Vermont Robins 
PROGRAM EV ORCHSSTRA. Selection—"TheTop o' the World," Klein and Caldwell Selection—"The Beauty Spot" DeKoven Selection—"The Broken Idol" Van Alstyne March Selected 
St Edward's Hall Cdebratioii. 

On Tuesday the boys of St. Edward's hall had their own day and celebration for the President. The exercises consisted of solemn high mass in the beautiful new Holy Family chapel at 8 o'clock. Father Cavanaugh was the celebrant, assisted by Father Sdiumadier as deacon sctiA Father T. E. Btn-ke. as sub-deacon. The hall choir had special music for the occasion. 
In the assembly room after mass, Newman Wittenberg read a brief address to Father Cavanaugh that conveyed to the President the feelings of loyalty and high regard which the St. Edward's hall boys have for him^ The President responded and in plain, direct language told the lads many useful and inter­esting things, for whicli he was heartly applauded at the close. The study-hall was decorated with flags, college colors and rich potted plants, which added to the ordinarily neat appearance of the room. 
Brownson Entertainment and Smoker. 

Tuesday evening the students of Brownson Hall gave their annual entertainment in honor of the President and faculty of the University. The program consisted of the following numbers: " Darling Nellie Gray" by Brownson <5lee Club; "An Interesting Trilogy" by J. Clovis Smith; "The Ballad of the Tempest" by Jeremiah McCarthy; Selection by Orchestra; " Kelly's Dream" by George Clark; "Canon Sheehan's Masterpiece" by Raymond Walsh; Selection by Orchestra; "Our American Cardinals" by James Robins; vocal solo by James Wasson; "The Phantom Congregation" by Brother Alphonsus, C. S. C ; "Come Where the River Winds" by Brownson Glee Club; address and presentation of flowers to Father Cavsmai^ by M. Emmet Walter; closing remarks ^by the Reverend President of the Universi^. ;, \ 
After the entertainment a smoker wivsli^^ in one of the dining;-rooms. When, eiich mie 
had been served with refreshments, after-dinner speeches were in order. Mr. M. Emmet Walter acted as toastmaster and called on the following for m t and humor: Fathers Burke Bolger, Hagert}'^, Carrico; Brothers Alphonsus and Hugh; Messrs. Derrick, Vaughan, Mann, Marshall, Robins, Viso, Ely, Emerson, Burns, Krug and Gillis. 
Dr. Banks on Persia. 
Dr. Banks delivered a lecture last Saturday'" 

• on Persia, maintaining the standard set by his talk on Egypt the previous week. In obtaining \'iews of Persia, however, the pro­fessor and his party labored under difficulties arising from the nature of the strict govern­ment regulations concerning photographing and excavating. He succeeded, in spite of the unfavorable circumstances, in obtaining some \eiy interesting pictures of the public buildings, temples and ruins. In the course of the lecture Dr. Banks explained many of the customs of the people and their religious practices which, though in some instances, resembling those of other Eastern countries, in others are widely 
different.  The  lecture  this  week  will  be  on  
India.  
m»m  
Knights  of  Columbus  Elections.  

At a meeting of the local council of the K of C. last Wednesday evening the following ofl&cers were elected for the coming year. Grand Knight, Professor James F. Hines; Deputy Grand Knight, James E. Sanford; Treasurer, James F. O'Brien; Financial Sec­retar}^ Earl S. Dickens; Recording Secretary, Edward J. Howard; Chancellor, Henry J. Kuhle> Jr.; Advocate, William P. Downing; Warden, Leo J. Condon; Inside Guard, Julius Meuninck; Outside Guard, Fabian N.Johnston. The officers will be formally installed by District Deputy Weber of South Bend at the first meeting in January. 
o*^ 
Sodetjr Notes. 

ARCHITECTURAL CLUB. The regular meeting of the dub was held MondaLy evening. President Kaiser called the meeting to order, and explained to the niembers that owing to some misunderstanding only one-paper was prepared to be read; Mr. H. 
Munger read a resume of the articles contained in the Architectural Magazines of the past-month. He treated his subject in a pleasing manner, quoting from articles written by prominent architects of the present day. After the usual criticism and discussion of the paper, the members indulged in social conversation. It was agreed to hold the next meeting of the club.Sunday evening, Dec. 17th, at the Haney Hotel. 
CIVIL ENGINEERING. -' 

The Civil Engineering Society held its eighth regular weekly meeting on Tuesday night, December 5. "Hydrographic Surveying" was treated by Mr. Marcille in an interesting and instructive paper. Hydrograhic surveys are observations taken about, and on, bodies of water, for the purpose of determining the character of the bottoiri, the depth, the rate of flow in the case of rivers, etc. Hydro-graphic surveys are of importance in the location of harbors, in the building of bridge piers or river beds, "and,in numerous other ways. Mr. Gonzales told how to find the meridian, that is, a true north and south line, in a paper on the "Determination of the Meridian." Thii can be done in several ways. A crude way to-find the meridian is by the use of the surveyor's compass, finding first magnetic north and applying a small angular correction which is necessary because of the non-coincidence of magnetic north . with true north. Obser­vations on stars particularly upon Polaris, the north star, give more accurate results than the aforementioned method, while, a still more accurate method is the use of the sun as a medium. Mr. Madden gave two all-important considerations as arguments in favor of . the existence of large-drainage systems, in a paper on the "Benefits of Drainage."^ These are the reclamation of otherwise value­less lands, and the preservation of the public health through the removal of cev.erage. A gen eral discussion concerning the weights of bodies in the atmosphere relative to their weights in a vacuum followed, with Mr. Bracho and Mr. Kirk the central figures. This • discussion was unusually interesting. /. 
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING. The Engineering; Society, of the University held its first meeting Friday evening, December^ first, with fiftyrtwo inembers present. '. The Society was organised for the comng year with 
V~^ 'i^yi-:<' 

the following officers: president, L.' F. Garrity; vice-president, L. J. Condon; secretary and treasurer, W. J. Maguire; sergeant-at-arms, 
F. N. Countiss; honorary president. Prof. J. 
J. Greene. 
New constitution and by-laws were adopted. It was decided to hold meetings on second and fourth Fridays of each month at which not less than two papers are to be read. Arrange­ments are being made for securing speakers from South Bend and elsewhere to address the Society on engineering subjects. Several trips to nearby plants will be made this spring. Prof. Greene gave a short talk in which he pointed out some benefits to be derived from well prepared papers on subjects of interest to engineers in after life. Deans of the engi­neering schools will act as a board of critics for the coming, year. 
Personals. 

—Leo D. Hamerski (C. E. '09) successfully underwent an operation recently and is quickly recovering. 
—Otto B. Levanger, a former student of the University, is engaged in business in Christiania, Sweden. Some of the older stu­dents and alumni will remember him: 

-^Charles A. Baer (student 'o5-'o6) is a member of the firm of the Dalles Dressed Meat Company. His address is The Dalles, Oregon. We congratulate Mr. Baer on the notable success he has attained since leaving school. 
—^A belated card announces the marriage cf Michael A. Diskin (LL. B. '07) and Miss Florence Dinegan at Goldfield, Nevada, Nov. 25th. Rice and the other customary atten­tions may be delivered after the first cf January when Mr. and Mrs. Diskin will be at home in Gcldfield, Nevada. Cordial con­gratulations. 
-«•»­
' Local News. 
—Father Hagerty and Mr. O'Hara recently organized an athletic association in Carroll Hall. 
—A meeting of the boys in Carroll hall held last Monday evening resulted in the enlistment of about forty in the Daily Communion League. The Director looks forward to the time when every boy in the hall will be an active member. 

^-The Walsh Chicks were defeated by the CaiToUites, 16-5 in a basketball contest Tuesday. The game was too one-sided to be even-interesting. 
—^Walter and Edward Jacobs, of Brovmson and Carroll, were called to their home in Shreves­port, Louisiana, last Wednesday by the serious illness of their sister. 
—^Brownson hall football team, which the good people of Adrian were beguiled into con-, sidering the Varsity second, lost to Adrian college 36 to o Thanksgiving. 
—The social program for the year of 1911 

"will open next Wednesday evening when the Sophomore class will give its annual dance. Extensive preparations have been under way for the last few weeks, and the boys of '14 evidently expect to outdo all previous events of its kind. 
—Since the opening of school, nearly all of the men in St. Joseph hall have made it a practice to receive Holy Communion every Sunday, at least; some of them, daily. There is no good reason why every Catholic young man in the University should not profit by this good example. 
—^The Senior Monogram Club of Walsh hall gave a banquet at the Oliver last week, honoring the new members who had been initiated the previous evening. Coach Don. Hamilton.was presented with a splendid gold watch in token of Walsh hall's appreciation of his work in hall athletics. 
—^The interhall champions added another scalp to the already burdened belt of victory by defeating the Friars* Club of Fort Wayne on TBanksgiving day. The game was one of speed, skill, and endurance against beef and brawn. From the first sound of the whistle until the final time was called it was plainly seen that Corby with the skill of her bac^eld, the speed of her ends, and the wonderful en­durance of the team was far superior to the Fiiars. Not once did the Friars come within striking distance of the Corby goal, but quite frequently did the Corbyites place the ball in the shadow of their opponents'goal. Gushurst, Cannody, Donovan and Mehlem starred for Corby, while Capt. Braden, Strieder and Pierre played brilliant ball for the Friars. Score, 18-0 in-favor of Corby. The. :Corby boys received, royal treatment from the Fott Wayne atUetes. 
'--rf,;«-­



THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Basketball and Track. 
WILLIAM E. COTTER, '13, 
Ass't Athletic Manager. 
Now that the football season is over, all attention' points to basketball and track, the outlook of which is especially bright. Wrhen Coach Maris issued his call some weeks ago, he was busily engaged in lining up the eligibles with a view to rounding a crack basketball team into form which would equal that of any previous year. The showing so far speaks for itself and proves that he was correct when he predicted that he would again develop a strong aggregation. Captain Granfield, who earned the right to lead the team by his consistent work last season, seems better than ever. He is cool-headed at all times, and exerts a great steadying power over the team. He has almost every quality needed 

in a good guard, and possesses a mania for breaking up plays of his opponents. 
Feeney who has played guard; has evinced a striking similarity to the great Vaughan in his habit of shooting baskets from any^vhere and everywhere and always with apparent ease. McNichol, the little forward, whose light­ning work was the sensation of last year, has again donned a uniform, and has been doing some very clever work so far. In O'Neill, Maris has a center who will hold his own with any in the state. Terry has a fondness for shooting long goals, and is exceedingly hard to cover. But the coach is particularly for­tunate" in having some notable material to fill the places of Fish, Maloney and Ulatowski, who for the past three years have putjorth all their best efforts to uphold the honor of the school in basketball. 
Of the new recruits Jimmie Cahill, the crack hall man of last'year, will in all probability, fill the place of one of the three who were graduated in June. Feeney from Holy Gross, Dougherty of St. Mary's, and Mehlem stand alone and have shown that they are capable of doing all that is expected of them. 
Of this year's football team Pliska, the plucky little half-back, who for the past two years has been picked by Chicago papers for the all star high-school team, and Bergman," captain of the interhall champions of last year, with I<arson, will try for places. 
Last year's track squad, conceded" by the-leading sporting critics of the country to be one of the best teams ever brought together, and winner of the Pennsylvania games, will once again try to duplicate this feat. The men will start working in the large gym in a week or so, and are in great trim for the beginning of a hard training season. Captain Fletcher thinks that he will be able to round up some promising material among the new students. 
Of the old stand-bys it is not necessary to say much. Yet we like to give expression to loj'^alty where loyalty is so well deserved; for Captain Fletcher, Jim Wasson, Bob Fisher, Bill Hogan, Si. Williams and John Plant are men that we can rest assured will hold their own .with any team on the cinder path for the coming year. They have a very hard schedule before them, but we are confident that they, as well as the basketball team, will cop off the large end of the tally. And when the curtain falls at the close of the season of 1912 w^e are positive that Notre Dame will be well satisfied with the showing of the teams of this year. 
BASKETBALL SCHEDULE. 

Eec. 6th-T-Commercial Athletic Club at Notre Dame " cth—Lewis Institute at Notie Eame " 16th—Hull House at Notre Eame 
Jan. 15th—Eenison University at Notie Eame " 20th—Northwestern at Notre Dame " 27th—Wabash College at Notre Eame ' " 31st—Marquette University at Notre Dame 
Feb, 2nd—Wabash College at Crawfords^ ille " 5th—De Paul University at Notre Eame. " loth—Detroit University at Notre Eame " 13th—Commercial Athletic Club at South Bend " 14th—Earlham College at Richmond " 15—Miami University at Cincinnati " 16—St. Mary's College at Dayton " 17—Ohio State University at Columbus " IS—Open " 19th—Heidelberg University at-Tiffin " 20th—St. John's University at Toledo " 21-7-Detroit University at Detroit " 22nd^Hope College at Holland " 24th—Open 
March 8th—^De Paiil University at Chicago TRACK SCHEDULE. January 20th—rFirst Regiment at Chicago February 12th—^A. A. U; Chainpionship March 14th—Ohio State University, at Notre Dame March 30th—Penn State at Notre Dame April 27th^Pennsylvania Relay Games at Philadelphia' May 4th—Ohio State University at Columbus May nth—Pittsburg Ujiiversity at Notre Dame May i8th—Seventh Anniial Intercollegiate Field Meet at Pittsburg May 25thr-Invitation Meet at Notre Da.ime, June ist^—Conference meet at Lafayette 
^^^S^mmMm:^r7i^:n:i 



^a-^G' 
Dotrc Dame Scholastic 
•Dl5C€-9VA5l-5(EmP6R-VICTVl^\/S- VIVe-OVASl-•RAS IMOieiTV/RVSv 
Vol,. XLVI. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 7, 1912. No. 12. 
That's 

'\jnE seen 'em when old Wabash' hit that line— 
It was fine! 
Harvat, Feeney, Fitz, and Jones, 
Drove 'em back with achin' bones, 
And we cheered 'em 'cause they fought an' never 

feared 'em, Never layin' down before the best: That's why the'Badgers aint the Champions o' the West. 
We seen 'em in a blizzard down at Pitt, Show their grit: Rockne, Crowley, Yund, and 'Whif,' Sent old Pittsburg, bing! bang! biff! And we cheered 'em 'cause they banged and never 
feared 'em. Old U. N. D., you're still among the best: That's why the Badgers aint the Champions o' the West. 
The Season 
wii^iviAM E. COTTER", 'i2 

Success is intoxicating.. And to one in­timately associated with those responsible for the successes of.the past football season, a review is apt to contain indications of intox­icating influences. Success of the highest grade came to the Notre Dame team of 1912. If the following record of the team's work appears to abound in superlatives, the excusing cause is that nothing less than superlatives can adequately express the conquests of the season. 
Hailed as one of the two or three teams possessing any logical claim to the Western Championship in football; with a record of seven gaines and seven victories. during the season; • with a total of 389 points scored on opposing elevens against 27 points tallied 
 Why. 
We seen 'em in Missouri crashing through 
St. Louis U.: 
Lathrop, Berger, NoAvers, and Hicks 
Crushed 'em like a ton o' bricks; 
An' they mowed 'em, an' that Show-Me Club they 
showed 'em,­

An' they put that poor St. Louis bunch to rest: 
That's why the Badgers aint the Champions o' the West. 
We seen 'em in Chicago bust that tie— Me, O My! Dorais, Pliska, "Eich" and Gus— 
• Gee! but they did make some fuss. An' the band a dead march played, while Marquette 

looked on and prayed, And we remained on top among the best: That's why the Badgers aint the Champions o' the West. 
C. L. 

 Just Closed. 
(Adanager of Athletics). 

by opponents; with the championship of 
Indiana conceded even by prejudiced observers; 
with our captain recognized as one of the best 
since the days of Eckersall, Coy, Heston, and 
StefFen, and our fullback the almost unanimous 
choice of football experts of the West for the 
All-Western team; with five Notre Dame men 
nominated for the All-Indiana team and almost 
as many picked for second All-Western elevens 
by a number of different authorities—^with 
all this as the result of the 1912 season, is there 
any reason why we should not feel triuinphant 
over the work of our football warriors? 
With the- exception of the- championship 

year of 1909, Notre Dame has never had reason-
to feel so proud over the gridiron efforts of 
her sons,as during the past season. In many. 
•178 THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
respects the 1912 season has been more suc­of the team, and sincerely earnest in his desire cessful than that of 1909. Recognition, long to develop an eleven w'orthy of the material withheld, has been granted in a manner that at hand, the coach brought out all the strength stamps Notre Dame as one of the football of all the candidates. His unassuming earnest­leaders of the West. A foundation has been ness won the good will of the players, and his established in public opinion upon which confidence in their ability inspired perform­future teams may build high and strong, secure ances^ worthy of .any team in the land. in the knowledge that 1912 affords the basis Assistant coaches Dunbar and Philbrook for the highest efforts. rendered splendid service in the drilling of 
Ill seeking the secret of the season's returns the line, and their work in connection with one is confronted by a variety of causes, the second team merits no small credit, because all of which are deserving of a share of of the important part jjlayed by the "scrubs" praise. The personal influence of Coach Marks in strengthening the Varsity. and the willing aid ren­The Marquette game dered b}' his assistants, at Chicago, Thanksgiving Philbrook and Dunbar; Da}'-, provided a fitting the example afforded by end for the football year. Captain Dorais ' and the Victories over the Uni­other veterans who versity of Pittsburg, St. labored indefatigably to Louis University, and perfect the 1912 machine; Wabash College heralded the lo^'^al strivings of the a conquest in the clos­"scrubs" who bore up ing contest, but not even under daily scrimmages the most sanguine Gold that meant daily punish­and Blue follower hoped ments in order that the for the decisive result Varsity - might gain that ended the three-year strength b^J" their offer­tie existing between Mar­ings; and the spirit of quette and Notre Dame. the students which mani­In Chicago, St. Louis, fested itself this 3-ear in and Pittsburg our alumni a manner never before showed their loyalt}'^ to beheld at Notre Dame— Notre Dame in a man­all of these elements were ner that will be long potent factors in bring­remembered by the ing about our success. members of the team. Not alone to "good foot­Not until • we leave the ball" in the technical UniA'^ersity can we truly sense must our success MANAGER WILLIAJI E. COTTER. appreciate the love 
be credited—loyalty, AVhose earnest and efficient labors are borne b}'- her sons for good sportsmanship, per­responsible for much of the success all associated with her of the season. 
fect harm on)'" in the advancement in any field. squad, willingness to sacrifice Ohty two members of the 1912 team will be 
^^v-oo ..v^ ott^xxxi^^ personal ad­graduated -this • year, and the nucleus of expe­
vancement for the w^elfare of the team com­rienced pla3'-ers' "that promises to be -here in 
bined to bring to the players of this season the honor that is theirs and to reflect upon their 1913 insures, an eleven that is certain to-repeat Alma Mater the glor}'- that is hers. this year's successes. Crowley and- Rdckne 
Coach Marks is deserving of more than are: the men who will go from us in June. • Both passing, mention. A Dartmouth player of have given their best to the "teams of the past the present generation, and hailed as one of three years, and both have -won. high honors Vi the best backs in the country during his three on the gridiron. All-Indiana nominations -were years in the eastern school, Marks brought to won by thiem last season, and this same honor Notre Dame all the football knowledge the this year, with the additional honor of selection East afforded. Interested solely in the welfare for several All-Western second teams; brings 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 1/9 
'k^ 
recognition which will give life to the memory of two of the best ends ever developed at Notre Dame. 

All said, the year of 1912 will go down in Notre Dame football history as among the most successful ever recorded. We have been fight­ing against misinterpretation for the past four or five seasons, and so were denied an opportunity to meet our logical opponents. The brighter day that we have been looking for is about to dawn, we feel sure, and Notre Dame will soon come into her own. 
The Short Story of a Successful Season. 
Notre Dame, 116 St. Viator College, 7 
Notre Dame, 74-Adrian • College, 7 
Notre Dame, 39 Morris -Harvey Col., o 
Notre Dame, 41—Wabash College, 
Notre Dame, 3 •Pittsburg University, o 
Notre Dame, 47 St. Louis University, 7 
Notre Dame, 69 Marquette Univ., o 
Total 389 
COACH JACK MARKS. Who has developed one of the best teams in the West this year. 
The Men Who Put it Over. 
WILLIAM M. GALVIN. 

It is high praise to say that the wonderful team of 1912 is one of the three best teams in the long string of good elevens put out by Notre Dame since football began here in 1S87; that it ranks alongside the famous eleven of 1899, and the Western Champions of 1909; but to tell the truth we must say all this and more. To tell of the men who made every game of this season a victory is an honor; to do them justice is impossible. We have stars this season that can be seen throughout America; some outshine all others in the West; many are the brightest in Indiana's' football sky. 
JOHN F. O'CONNELL The men who have won positions on the all-
AVhose earnest ^work as assistant manager added State and all-Western teams are our pride, but—do not think I would minimize their 
to the success of 1912. 

glory—the success of the season is due first and fore­most to the team, to the impenetrable battle front put up by the forwards, to the excellent interference of ends, and backs, to the telling ofltensive playing of all, as well as to the superb work of the men who carried the ball. 
CHARLES E . DORAIS (Captain, Quarterback.) Here's where words fail. 
Although "Dory" was over­looked b}'' the sporting critics of Indiana, he was giA^en both captain and quarter­back positions on the second 

CAPT. DORAIS Pilot of the un­all-Western picks by Chicago defeated eleven football authorities who know of 1912. the game, who declare that there was only a shade of difference between him and Gillette of Wisconsin, who was awarded all-Western quarterback. What is more to the point, he just suits us. He has everything a quarterback should have: ability to pilot a team, a propensity for open field running, a*deadly tackle, and a trust}'^ right toe that punts fifty 3'^ards on an average and drop kicks Avell enough to "v\dn games. Not big, but aggressive and confidence-inspiring, he plays 
every minute he is in the game. Dorais will be with us again next year, and we confidentl}'­expect to see him land the all-Western quarter­back nomination in 1913, and we do not place the all-American be^'^ond him. ­
RAYMOND J. EICHENLAUB (Fullback.) 
Eichenlaub the superb! Unanimously conceded to be the best fullback in the West, he is the .pride of our eleven. He was good as a freshman, but he developed beyond our most extravagant hopes. 
RAY EICHENLAUB Line plunging is the spe­

Unanimous cho'ce for All-Western fullback. cialty of this 20-year old, 
190-pound giant, but anyone who has seen him carry a ball must always think of liim as a dash man. " Eich " was conspicuous all through the season, but his work against Marquette set Chicago critics raving about him, and won for him a clean title to all-Western fullback. 
ALBERT G. FEENEY (Center.) You'll haA-e to traA^el wide and look long to find a more rehable center than "Al." Ecker­sall of the Chicago Tribune found it hard to choose betAveen him and Des Jardein of Chicago UniA'crsity for all-Western center. Feeney was, hOAVCA'cr, put on the second Western team This tribute could not be denied him, for his accurate passing, together AA'ith his magnificent defensive playing, induced the coaches to keep him in all the big games all the time, and won generous praise from the press AvhereA'cr the Varsity played. All-State and second all-Western'center, and a 3^ear to play! It looks like our Indianapolis boy is "going up." KEITH K. JONES (Tackle.) Consistency is the Avord to use in charac­terizing "Deak's" playing. There is nothing ostentatious or spectacular about it, but he figures in CA-er}'' play. Jones appeared at fullback and center last 3'^ear, but Eichenlaub and Feeney came back this year to fill those places. "Deak" Avas too A^aluable, howcA^^er, to be left out of the game, so he was shifted to tackle. The coach's Avisdo.m is attested by the fact that Lardner of the Chicago Examiner named Jones as tackle on his second all-Western elcA'^en. He Avill return. CHARLES F . CROWLEY (End.) One of the two regulars Avho Avill be graduated this year is "Chuck," Avho has played the A^ery best article of football produced at end for three 3^ears. He has AA^OU an unquestioned position on the all-State teams for the past tAvo years, and his shoes Avill be hard to fill next year. He resisted all knocks, • and ncA^er lost his fighting spirit during a game. His fast tackling and magnificent interference running has made "Chuck" one of the most popular faA'^orites on the elcA^en. It is hard to lose such a man. KNUTE ROCKNE (End.) • It is not easy to separate ' 'Rock'' from Crowley, for this pair, Ave belicA^e, made the best set of . ends in the country. Both have been on the all-State teams two years running, and, what is hardest to say, both are jseniors. Rockne is an ideal end for the style of play used this fall, and althgouh handicapped by a sprained knee, 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC i8i 
he played in all the games and won. enviable honors. His genial disposition and earnest­ness as a student have won him a legion of friends who will miss him next year. 
JOSEPH S. PLISKA (Halfback). 
Joe put in his second season at the halfback post this year, and his line plunging and end running, coupled with his hard tackling. and ability to turn off plays, won recognition from the critics wherever he jDlayed. He'is a total stranger to fear, and his dashing plunges have added many yards to the total gained b}'- the gold and blue this fall. Joe is a Sophomore and has two years of pla^'ing ahead of him. 
ALVIN BERGER (Halfback). 
"Heinie's" long suit is open field running, but.he is at home in all departments of the game. In the Wabash, Pitt, and St. Louis games he not only did much to win, but his sensational long runs were features of the contests. Fifty-yard sprints were commonplace exercises with him, and when it comes to making interference or breaking up opponents' plays, Berger has few equals. He has another year to play. 
EDWIN J. HARVAT (Tackle). 
"Speedy" moved over a notch from last year's guard, and proved by his varied attacks that he knew all the tricks of the line, and that he is speedy in reality as well as in name. In playing the game he seldom receives an injur}'-, although he throws himself under plays in a way that seems almost reckless. He is just coming into his own, and will be a valuable than next year. 
WALTER'S. YuND (Guard). 
Last year Yund was unable to land a regular place in the line because such men as Capt. Kelly, Philbrook, and Oaas were among the forwards, but his training with the second string served him well, and this year he rounded out and cinched his position from the '\Qxy beginning. His defensive work was flawless, • and in opening holes he proved of immeasurable service this year. Yund is eligible next year.' 
FREMONT C. FITZGERALD (Guard). Although a freshman, "Fitz" took a guard position in a matter-of-fact way early in the season, and held on to it throughout the year. He hails from Columbia College, Portland, Ore., which, by the way, has also given us Kelleher, Finnegan, and Cook this year—and is a foot­ball player from head to toe.. His work in the Wabash game alone.marked him as a line­man of the first water end won for him a nom­
ination on the all-Indiana 
eleven picked by the In­
dianapolis • News. 
CHARLES T. FINNEGAN 
(Quarterback). 
One of the most val­

uable contributions from interhall circles to the Var­sity came in the form of this Idaho Irishman. His reliabilit}' and fighting spirit made him a most valuable substitute, and he was used to advantage in every game. He is a junior lawyer, and a hard "student as well as a hard 
player. 
JS'OEL DUXBAR 
FRED W. GUSHURST. 
Responsible for the 
(Hafback). strength of the 
"Gus" is another of Varsity's line. 
last year's interhall champions and was 
the choice ' for all-Hall halfback in 19.11 
as well. The dash and determination of this 
old Corby star and his ability to pick holes, 
elude tackles, and use his head label him as 
a halfback bom to the work. He was used in 
all the games, and his plunges always proved 
effective. 
ARTHUR B. LARKIN (Halfback). 
"Bunnie" is yet another hall star, having played with Walsh two years ago. He is one of the fastest halfbacks we have had in years. In the Pittsburg game his long runs, made possible by his rabbit-like dodging which gave him his name, won unstinted praise from critics and fans, and mark "Bunnie" as a coming football light. 
WILLIAM DOLAN (End.) 
Kept off the first string by all-State nominees, "Whif", nevertheless, played in nearly every game, and played with smashing vim. His ability 
PHILBROOK to turn plays and go down 
Our own Star who 
under, punts caused the 
has always given his coach to play him almost best to Notre Dame 

as much as the regulars. "Whif "is eligible for another year of the sport. DANIEL Y. MCGINNIS (End). 
All that has been said of Dolan may be said of Mac. The swift little Missourian showed us. Mac deserves great credit for his work in the Wabash and St. Louis games, and his loss— he is a Senior lawyer—will be felt on the squad. MARTIN L. STEVENSON (Tackle). 
A man who developed into a number one lineman under Coach Dunbar is "Steve. "He can pierce the opposing line and break up plays in a manner truly astonishing. He was han­dicapped with a bad shoulder, but he played a hard and telling style of football, notwithstanding. 
RALPH G. LATHROP (Guard.) 

Lathrop is one of the finds of the season. As soon as he learnt the style of play this season he forged forward and soon was ranked among 
the  best  linemen.  His  work  in  Pittsburg  
marked  him  a  heady,  as  well  as  a  heav}^  
lineman.  
TH E  SUBSTITUTES.  
No praise  can  be  too  high for  the  men  who  

gave their afternoons and took the bruises while they left the glor>'- to the regulars. There can be no doubt that the strong opposition our eleven received at home fitted them for the strong: opposition they received from outside contestants. 
The work of Cook and*Nowers at the end i^ particularly noteworthy, which McLaughlin and Hicks in the line and Gorgen, Lower and Dougherty in the backfield deser\^e honorable mention. The other men who showed their loyalty by staying out the entire season are Miller Deveraux, Keefe, ^Morgan and Munger. These are the men who put the ball over. But an account of the season would not be complete without a mention of the managers. 
To William  Cotter  and  his hard-workin  assis­ 
tant,  John  O'Connell,  the  SCHOLASTIC  offers  
at  once  congratulations  and  thanks.  

A historian narrating the disasters of the season would not, I fear, be able to produce a tome. The only serious mishap of the year was the injury received by our fighting fullback of last year's team. Bill Kelleher. Among the bright­est stories in the histor}^ of the season is the one that tells of the number of interhall players who won recognition on the squad, while the brightest bit of prophecy we can think of is this—We are going to have a Western Champion­ship team next year because everv* man on the regulars, except Crowley, is eligible to play the game next year. Rockne and Mc­Ginnis, it is true, finish in June, but they are eligible should they elect to return next 
year. 
AT WORK 
It took ten solid weeks of^'this and harder work to put Notre Dame on a par mtli "\A''isconsin and Michigan in the claim for Western championship. 
i84  TTHE  NOTRE  DAME  SCHOLASTIC  
The  Interhall  Season  and  All-Hall  Team.  
LOUIS  J. KILEY,  '13, Editor  of  Interhall  Athletics.  

FIRST TEAM. Baujan (Walsh), left end Bartel (St. Joseph), left tackle Reidman (Brownson), left guard Roach (Corby), center. Pritchard (Corby), right guard Voelkers (Sorin), right tackle Carmody (Corby), right end Maloney (St. Joseph), quarterback Kane (St. Joseph), left halfback (Captain), ^ilatthews (Walsh), right halfback 
•Dew (Brownson) fullback. 
The 1912 interhall football season was most successful in eveiy way. All the games were played—and played on scheduled time. No protests delayed the progress of events this year, and the wrangling over eligibility lists, which has so often caused trouble in the past, was conspicuously absent. So keen was the competition that not until the last game was over was the championship decided. 

Now that the season is over the coaches of the various hall elevens have followed the custom of selecting an all-hall team, thus honor­ing by their choice the men who have, in their opinion, played the most consistent game through­out the year. The difficult task of picking the eleven this season was left to the following coaches of hall teams: Pliska of Brownson, Crowley of Walsh, Cook of St. Joseph, Rockne of Corby and INIcGinnis of Sorin. Each coach was permitted to select a first and a second team with captains for both, his choice being limited, however, to players not on his own squad. In each case the men receiving the greatest number of votes was awarded the place on the honorar}'^ eleven. 
For the first time in four years Corby hall failed to win the championship- Not onty did they fail as repeaters, but they won only one game during the whole season. But the large number of men from this hall chosen for the all-hall team, is sufficient testimony that Corby has not ceased to turn out good athletes. 
The flag- goes to St. JosejDh this year. The team from this hall went through the season with a clean slate, winning three games and playing a tie A\'ith Brownson. St. Joseph won none of its games on flukes—Q.Yery victory was 
SECOND TEAM. Hebner (Corby), left end Tierney (Corby), left tackle Carroll (Walsh), left guard Reilly (St Joseph), center King (Corby), right guard Keefe (Corby), right tackle Regan (Sorin), right end 
H. Newning (Walsh) quarterback (Captain). Granfield (Sorin), left halfback Bensberg (Corb3'"), right halfback Nigro (Corby), fullback 
clean cut and decisive. It must be admitted 
that the best team won. 
Baujan of Walsh has been given the place 
at left end, or, rather, he has earned it b}'- his 
clever work throughout the season. Baujan 
has been a regular on the Walsh team for three 
years, and last year his services were recognized 
b}' the award of a place on the second all-hall 
team. His playing this year fully warranted 
his promotion to the first team. Baujan was 
in the game ever}'' minute, and few were the 
gains made around his end. He is a most 
valuable man in receiving forward passes. He 
is one of the few men who received a unanimous 
vote for his position. 
Bartel of St. Joseph was another unanimous 

choice. He was assigned to the position of 
left tackle, the same that he held on last year's 
team. For opening holes in the opponents' 

line and clearing a wa}'^ for the runner, Bartel 
has few, if any, equals on the hall teams, and 
it is this quality that has twice won for him 
a place among the "all-stars." 
Reidman goes in at left guard. A more consistent player would be hard to find. He played for Brownson in nearty eve^ry game during the past two years and failed to land a place on the 1911 all-hall team only because of more experienced rivals that contested his claim. He is strong and fast and has been a tower of strength on the defense for Brownson. 
Roach will play center on the all-hall selection, and a better snapper-back could not be desired. Roach's passing was not his only good point. He possessed a faculty of mixing in every play, and his sharp, hard tackling saved many a 3'^ard for Corby. • 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC i8s 
-y 
Pritchard is the pick for right guard. He is a 
fast charger and can follow the ball. Full of 
fight and in the game eveiy minute, he is a 
good running mate for Reidman. 
Voelkers of Sorin has been selected for right tackle and is a most valuable man for our m^'^thical team. No line proved "strong enough to withstand his charging. . He.w^as continually opening holes for the backs when on the offense, and throwing runners for losses or blocking punts when pla^ang defense. Following the ball Avas his long suit, for he.was alwa^'s on hand to co\rer a fumble or block a kick. Twice he scored touchdoAATis for Sorin in this way. 

Mike Carmod}'-is another of the four men that received a unanimous vote for their positions. His pla^dng was brilliant. Tackling hard and low, never missing a man, heady and aggressive, no-better man than Mike could have been found for the position. He is a past-master in handling forward passes, and his abilit}-in this line resulted in many long gains for his team. He is equally good at intercept­ing a forward pass attempted by the enemy. No interference can keep Mike away from a runner coming his wa^'^. 
Maloney of St. Joseph is placed at quarter. "Buck" has the science of running a team at his finger tips, and although he entered the game late in' the season he is the coaches' choice for • the position. It is not mah}'^ minutes after a game has started before he has the weak-spots in his opponents' defense picked-and. is sending his backs crushing through at just the right place. Hfe is a good one to start a forward pass, for all his throws, whether short or long, are accurate. No one' can surpass Malone}'­when it comes to open field,, running. 
The captain and. left halfback, of tlie team is "Nig" Kane of St. Joseph. Kane showed that he could play every kind of .game. . He responded to every call that was made upon him, whether it was for.a plunge into the line, or a run around end, a . punt,, a' drop kick. "Nig" could always be counted on, and probably gained more ground during. the\season than any other man, with the possible exception of Matthews of Walsh. Kane will."do the kicking for this all-hall team. j . • 
Matthews is,selected for the -Tight-half position "Matty" is smair and ra!ther; light, but for all, that he is the hardest man on the team to tackle. At picking holes and shaking off, runners he is a, wonder; -He is probably the most successful 
of the halfbacks at carrjdng the ball around 
the end, and the only rival of Kane as a ground-
gamer. Dew of Brownson made the all-hall -second team last ^'^ear as a guard. This year he pla^'^ed behind the line and earned a place-on the first team. With "Tex" to furnish interference for Matthews, and Kane to assist in the kicking, and to take the ball through center -when a few yards are needed, it.would very seldom happen that this team would be held for downs by a team of its class. A second team has bfeen picked, but such is the quality of the material ^that it is second onty in name. Individual mention pan,, not be given these second men because of limited space, but it is due to Hariy Newning, who is selected as captain and quarterback of the second string that he .receive the credit due him. His regular position is at end, ,but owing to a scarcity of quarterbacks in Walsh he shifted,himself to the pivot, and was considered the slightest shade less worthy of quarterback than Malonev. . '' '. . 
The Team. 

O sat}-, can you see bj"-the aftermath's gleam 
An}'-team that compares with oiir bwn'N. D:'"t'eam?— 
For slashing attack' or for brilliant end run -'; .' 
Or for tackles that go like the shot from a gun? 
From our big Eichenlaub to our little Dorais ­
The}'-are heroes, each one of them—hipl hip! hoo'ray! 
For the team." ."' ' ' 

Did you notice what happened'to pooi"old Marquette? 
Why she hadn't a chance to get out of the -ivet ., 
Of the goals and the touchdowns so like a downpour— 
No-prof, of_ Math. E could keep track of the score. 
For the "Irish" were doing things all through the fray, 
They were there everj'^ minu'te^—then, hip! hip! hooray! 
For the. Team. -." -' • 

Proud Wabash came down "like:the wolf on the fold," But she bowed in defeat to ..the'Blue and. the Gold. Then we charged .through the-State/and "ive romped 
thrpugh the West . • ' • ' : 'Till the honors were thick on our proudly tossed crest And we looked to the East with.e3'esloriging—Avell, sa}', If we clinched, who'd be.victor?—Why, hip! hip! hooray! 
Our own .Team. ' ' ' ."•• ,. 

'Tis over—the season of conquest is. past;-;, >.,, 
But-,the memor)'-of it will'endure; it will>last'' ' ? Down-the .years .when our men of the.Gbldand the Blue Have tackled .Life, hard and.-have, fought .-^their..'way 
through' -. ... '"".;• -. ^•..•'••; j-

To the "goal of success^then meeting some^'day,­-We will "toast the}.old" herbesV^a hip!. hip! vhQo.ray! . ; '-'• V For^ the Team.-;^:-\--' •"-^:,. ^ '* ' 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
The All-Amerikay. 
Wise Waller Camp lit up his lamp And Avrote a little while. He read it o'er, then wrote some more And smiled a placid smile. My "inside" knowledge of the game Is sure and can not fail; My plan is just pick Harvard first And then pick good old Yale. With five of crimson, six of blue. It seems the onl}'- way. To pick the best of East and West For All-Amerikay. . L- C. 
Exit Football. Enter Basketball and Track. 
J JOHN F- O'CONNELL 
{Ass't. Manager of Athletics.) 

If our fcotball experience may be used as a criterion, the coming season holds in store one of the most successful 3'-ears ^ever experienced by the Notre Dame basketball team. Con­ditions at present in basketball are similar to those experienced at the outset in football. Granted that the sport will receive the loyal support accorded football by pla^'-ers and fans, there seems to be little reason why honors proportionately as great should not accrue to the team and the Universit}'". 
Experienced players are here in numbers, and interest in the game has already been displa)'-ed in a manner that promises well for the strength of the team.'. The schedule of con­tests is certain to give the squad some exciting battles. This 3''ear, as in the past, difl5culties have been encountered which prevent the scheduling of more numerous games with opponents, of recognized standing, but the average is good, and the possibilities afforded by most of the contests demand earnest work by all of the players. 
Ex-Captain Granfield, Captain Feeney, Cahill, Kenny, Nowers, and Kelleher are the mono­gram members of last year's team who will be in the race for positions. Byrne, Kelly, Smith, and several others of the 1912 squad, along with a host of first-year men are going through the daily workouts in a rnanner that stamps them as serious contenders for regular positions. 
I^ewis Institute will open the season at Notre Dame next Friday night, and the college contests, to be taken up almost "im­mediately after the holidays, will keep the team busy until early in March. 

Little is known as yet concerning track prospects. The loss of most of the stars of the past few years will place the team under a big handicap in college meets where the fresh­men Avill be ineligible for competition, but enough of the old men remain to insure a rep­resentative team. Capt. Plant, Hogan, Wasson, Henehan, Birder, Hood, Feeney, O'Neill, Yund, and Rockne are the survivors of the 1912 season who are already in training for the opening track meet in Chicago, January 24th. Several of the freshmen have established en­viable records, notably Pritchard, who will bolster up the team in the hurdles,- and the new material will do much to strengthen the squad. 
Varsity track offers a splendid opporttmity to interhall men this season. Candidates are needed in practically every department, and if those who have proven in the interhall meets that they are capable of good things will only give themselves over to the training of Coach Nelson, the results are apt to prove surprising. Constant work is necessary for development, but the stake is worth the striving. 
BASKETBALL. Dec. 13—Lewis Institute at Notre Dame. Jan. ID—Oregon Agricultural College at Notre Dame Jan. 15—Franklin College at Notre Dame Jan. iS—Northwestern College at Notre Dame. Jan. 28—St. Viator College at Notre Dame Feb. I—Wabash College at Notre Dame Feb. 5—Rose Polytechnic at Terre Haute (Pending) Feb. 6—Wabash College at Crawfordsville Feb. 7—Earlham College at Richmond. Feb. S—Dayton Turners at Dayton ((Pending) Feb. lo—Denison University at Granville. Feb. II—Ohio Wesley an IJniversity at Delaware. Feb. 12—St. John's University at Toledo. Feb. 13—Michigan Agricultural College at Lansing. Feb. 19—Michigan Agricultural at Notre Dame (Pend) Feb. 24—Ohio Northern Univ. at Notre Dame (Pend) Feb. 28—Earlham College at Notre Dame. March 7—Beloit College at Notre Dame. TRACK: Jan. 24-25 — First Regiment- Handicap Meet in Chicago. Feb. 28-March i—A. A. U.' Championship Meet at Chicago. April 26—Pennsylvania Relay Games at Philadelphia May 3—University of Missouri at Notre Dame (Peiid.) May 10—University of Pittsburg at Notre Dame. May 17—^^'anderbilt University at Nashville (Pend.) June 7—Conference Meet-at Chicago. • 
The Real Victor. 
Sheldon himself was the first to discover it. He had become aware of its presence when massive "Chalk-" Masters of the scrubs had charged toward him with the ball. He remembered with nauseating shame that he had affected confusion in order to tackle the wrong man. And it was all because—well, because of an incident of the last big game of a 3'^ear before. To the young man whose pale countenance stared fixedly from the crimson blanket, it seemed but yesterday. 
They had recovered the ball on downs, and the slippery oval reposed on the bleared streak of chalk that marked their opponents' five-yard line. Two minutes to play. Two minutes and one short plunge, and they would score the 
•winning touchdown,—^the touchdown that was being clamored for by eighteen thousand rooters, the touchd6\\Ti that would so gloriousty re­trieve three successive defeats. How vividly, after a lapse of twelve months, that picture still stood out. The kaleidoscopic color effect of the seething grandstands; the chill, lowering sk}'^ of late November; the teams—their jerseys sodden with perspiration, the padded armor of their nether limbs crumpled and black with mud—crouching like paleolithic monsters, seem­ingly but half human in the nose-guards and headgears that disfigured, yet protected. 
Tense, alert, vigilant, the^'^ waited. Silence, broken only by the audible respiration of twent^"^­two exhausted men, and the droning intonation of the signal, 7—26—31, and the next instant he was smashing through the tumbled heap, that chaotic tangle that sought so frantically to retard, or so desperately to further, the last decisive play of the game. Two, three, four yards he crashed through the barrier of the defensive line. Ha^'^diii tackled low and failed. Then Bradley and Zimmerman were upon him, but he shook them off and plunged ahead. Marsh drove in with charactjeristic accuracy, but did not check the lunging giant until he had tottered across the line. Then the dun-colored earth had. seemed to leap toward him. He met it with a soul-shocking, grinding crash. He was .mercifully unconscious when Rogers, his own quarter, in struggling over a prostrate form, sent his cleated heel fairly into the inert half-back's /upturned face. He did not 
know then that He had "gone over." He was 
oblivious to the delirious stands that ecstatically 
screamed the letters of his name, S-H-E-L-D-0-N. 
He paid no heed to the swaying thousands that 
participated in the exulting snake dance, that 
cheered frenziedty for him,—for him and for 
Patterson who had kicked goal. They had 
tried to tell him about it that night, but he was 
oblivious to the presence of. his sympathetic 
teammates clustered about his bandaged head; 
for a red hot wire tugged at his bruised left 
eyeball, a wire that jerked incessantly, and 
seemed to sear his throbbing brain. 
When the bandages were removed, weeks 
later, he realized that the scrimmage under 
the goal posts was the last he would ever 
view with two normal eyes.- No one knew, 
however, beyond himself and a celebrated 
oculist, that his left eye was hopelessly blind. 
To all of his loyal admirers—and he was the 
idol of CA'^eiy man at school—he appeared to 
have fulty recovered. 
He was out with the first squad the year following, training faithfully as was always his custom. He played the first two minor games with a sad reversal of form. But although his performance was far from brilliant, the coaches and "dopesters" had merely murmured sagely about pre-season form. Then came that fateful da}'' when, as the only man between "Pudge" Manhall and a touchdown, he had fallen deliberately, cravenly. The coaches were nonplussed, amazed, but Sheldon understood. It was the memory of that other game. 
On several occasions since then that memory had leaped forth at a crucial moment, and with the third repetition it dawned upon coaches, trainers, and teammates that he was afraid. "Yellow" was their sibilant whisper, and Sheldon with flushed face and downcast eyes, admitted in his heart that they Avere right. 
That was wh};- he now sat motionless on the side lines, while Billings, his substitute, hammered the scrub line in vain. With perspiration beading upon his forehead, he groaned impotently through two stirring reverses at the hands of inferior teams. He also saw his ovm eleven, last year's champions, held to a humiliating no-score tie by a school which the year before they had swamped with more than fifty points. 
Despair descended upon class-room and cam­pus. The coaches were even more caustic than usual. The rooting was lifeless. The squad itself was "going stale." The training table badinage of better days had been supplanted 

fi 
by "an atmosphere of gloom and silence. The "old Sheldon" Avould have changed all this in a day. With him back in his old-time form, the coach would have forgot his biting sarcasm, the team would have played like mad heroes, and .victories would have come thick and fast. But now when he met a teammate's gaze, the latter would turn away, with a significance that was like the sting of a blow. 
Day after day he huddled in his heay>'' blanket, eager, anxious, yet tormented by a haunting depression. Sometimes when Bill­ings limped to the bench, his heart would leap with a fierce hope, but always it was Cutler that sped jubilantly out to report. . On this, the last day of the season, however, various wild rumors were afloat. Public opinion, with its usual inconstancy, was swinging around toward Sheldon. His failures and omissions were charitably ascribed to overtraining. They had to win, declared the student body unan­imously; and had not Sheldon himself wrested the championship from this self-same eleven onty last year? The vociferous, changeable undergraduates forgot the "Pudge" Marshall incident, and with a return of the old optimism assured each other that Sheldon "had the Indian sign on that crowd just the same." Even Reed, the head coach, appeared to Avaver in his opinion. But when the referee's ' whistle blew at two o'clock that afternoon, Billings was at "full." Sheldon, taciturn, white faced, and nervous, swathed as usual in the heavy blanket, rocked back and forth, tormented by alternating hope and fear. As 
their old enemies trotted confidently out upon the field, their orange-striped jerseys smote upon the old chord, and Sheldon was glad that he had lost out. Cutler, a few feet away, tore up handfuls of withered grass, and fidgeted incessantly throughout the heart­breaking battle. His gaze never left the other confident, dashing fullback, and in the eagerness of his eyes could be detected a wish that was almost a prayer. 
Sheldon's one good- eye roved over the field, the chill sky, and the buzzing stands, always coming to rest upon the athletic youth' who had usurped his place upon the team. To the spec­tators the big fullback on the sideline appeared as calm and unfeeling as a statue, but in spirit he was fighting side by side with Billings, silently applauding the brilliant plays, groan­ing inwardly at the failures. . For the fiftieth 
time the gold and crimson backs had failed 
to pierce that dogged, unyielding line of orange 
and blue. For three full quarters, and for a 
desperate five minutes of the fourth, Billings 
had battled with fanatical zeal, but now as he 
crumpled under the onslaught of the opposing 
tacklers, Sheldon knew instinctively that he" 
was through. ^ The coach turned quickly to 
the bench, and ignoring Cutler was excitedly 
signalling a big fellow that kept somewhat apart 
from the rest and crouched and shivered beneath ­
his heavy blanket. Sheldon started to his feet,' 
dazed by the suddenness of his elation, then 
like a spectre of death there loomed before his 
mind the awful truth: he was "yellow." 
The kaleidoscopic color effect of the seething ^ 

grandstand, the chill, lowering sky of late 
November, the players, their jerseys sodden 
with perspiration, the very orange bands on 
his opponents' blue sleeves, recalled just such 
another day—a day when a white-hot wire 
jerked incessantly at his quivering eyeball, 
and seemed to sear his throbbing brain. ' He 
knew, as the old panic obsessed him, that he 
could not win. To go in would be but to save 
his pride,—and throw the game. In a single 
bound he cast off the folds of his crimson 
blanket and was clutching Cutler's arm. 
" Cutler," he choked, "you're going in— 

understand ? And you've got to win, boy— • 
I can't. Play the best game you know how, 
because it's all up to you. Watch out for, 
Stevens and Lannigans," he pleaded, "and 
play around left end, it's their weakest point. 
'Now play," he hissed, "like the very deucel" 
Toward the astounded poach he turned a pair of candid grey eyes, one forever sightless, and he calmly said, "I can't go in. One of my lamps is out, and I have a saffron streak a yard wide. Cutler'U do," he added with what was almost a sob, "because he's got to win." 
That night he sat alone in his room, dis­regarded, forgotten, and heard the far-off shouts and revelry that proclaimed Cutler the new gridiron hero. He heard the substitute acclaimed in the same swelling volume of student en­thusiasm that had greeted him on every hand but one short year before. And he smiled sadly, for he knew that "Cyclone" Sheldon was a "has been." Yet although a strange mistiness blurred the vision of his one- good eye, he was . content. For deep down-in the innermost recesses of his soul he knew-that he, and not • Cutler, -was the real -victor. .- -J. H; W. '15. . 
of young man Notre Dame feels proud of. He_ is a great pla^'^er,—resourceful, vigilant, 


Notre Dame Scholastic 
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter 

Published every Saturday during the School Term at the University of Notre Dame 
Tenns: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid 
Address: The Editor Notre Dame Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana 
Vol. XLVI. DECEMBER 7, 1912. No. 12. 
Board of Editors. 
SIMON E. TWINING, '13 WILLIAM J. MILROV, ' I3 
LOUIS J. KII,EY, '13 JOHN F. O'CONNELL, '13 
WILLIAM J. BURKE, '13 THOMAS F- O'NEIL, '13 
FRANK C. STANFORD, '13 JOHN T. BURNS, '13 
WILLIAM M. GALVIN, '14 JOSEPH M. WALSH, '14 
MAURICE NORCK AUER' 14 ARTHUR J. HAYES, '15 
FRANK H. BOOS, '15. 
—^At the end of a very successful football season the temptation of extravagance is alluring. Yet there hsls never been a season less in .need of the support The Year 'and of the hyperbolic crutch, The Men. than the season which has just closed. In the number and results of the games played, in the physical condition of the men, in their spirit of harmony and splendid deportment on and off the field,—in all this the season has been triumphantly successful. Not in many years has the rooting idea taken hold of the students in such healthy fashion, nor is it often they have given such outward expression to their loyalty. To no one 'man may all these good results be attributed. They are so many and so coromendable they may be "passed around." 
The football science of the men, their superbly aggressive playing, the spirit of fight which never failed them when their goal was in danger, —all this is due to Coach Marks, and his assis­tants, Coaches Dunbar and PhUbrook. Any­body who has noted, Mr. Mark's work will not consider it too high praise to rank him among the greatest coaches ever seen at the University; Mr. Dunbar gave cheerfully his valuable knowledge of the game; and to him the heaJd coach, on several occasions attributed 4inuch of the success of the team. Mr. Phil­^-brook, our/09 star, needs no encomium: he is one: of our own, and has pur devotion as a matter of course. Gaptain.Dorais is the type 
alwa^'^s calm,—and what is vastly more im­
portant, he is a fine t^'^pe of gentleman. Much 
of the." helping" spirit among the players was 
the result of his ever present tact. We wish we 
could name and give a mete of praise to every 
man on the team. Crowley, Rockne, Dolan, 
Nowers at the ends; Eichenlaub, Berger, 
PHska, Gushurst and Larkin in the backfield; 
Jones, Fitzgerald, Feeney, Harvat, Yund, 
Cook on the line—we would like to give every 

One of them a warm special word of com-. 
mendation, but our space is limited. 
Then there is Cotter. Cotter was a Minim 
in the long ago, then a CarroUite, with 
"shining morning face creeping like a snail 
unwillingty to school," then a Browmsonite 
with all ex-Philopatrians as" the vassals of his 
Tamman}'- hall. Cotter has grown from Minim 
to manager. It is a long joume}'', honorably 
made. His first 3'^ear has been eminently 
successful; due to hard work, prudence and a 
pleasing personalit3^ We congratulate Mr. 
Cotter, and wish him continued and greater 
successes. 
Santa Sophia. 
Mr. Charles W. Sej'^mour told us many interesting historical details" of the wonderful moslem mosque of Santa Sophia in Constantino­ple. This imposing edifice, erected by the Empe­ror Justim"an, was completed in 558 A. D. and has been successively a Roman Catholic church, a Greek Catholic temple, and a Mahomedan mosque. • Mr.- Seymour described in detail its architectural features, its tragic history, and the circumstances leading up to its seizure. 
Notice to Faculty, and Seniors. 
. The Facult}'^ and members of'- the Senior class in cap and gown are to meet in the Main Building, Tuesday,, December 10, 7:45 a. m., to form academic procession for services in Sacred Heart Church. After mass the. pro­cession will, return .to the reception room of~ the Main. Building to meet the President of the University, ; .. . 
The^ Faculty^cap and gown will gather in, the Main budding at 145 p^ m. to form academic procession7^for -exercises, of President's Day in. Washington;Halir, : .. . 

Calendar. 

Sunday, Dec. S—Feast of the Immaculate Conception. Brownson Literary Society, 7:30 p. m. 'Monday—Philopatrian Society, 5:00 p. m. Carroll Eucharistic League, 7:30 p. m. Tuesday-^President's Day (No classes). Inspection of the military companies by the Facult}'-, 9:15 a. m. Band Concert in Rotunda "of Main Building, 
10:00 a. m. " David Garrick" at Washington Hall 2 :oo p. m. Indianapolis Club, 7:30 p. m. Meeting of K. of C, S:oo p. m. 

Wednesday—Preliminaries in the Breen Oratorical 
Contest, Washington Hal', 4:00 p.m. Varsity vs. Lewis Institute in Basketball. Civil. Engineering Society, 7:30 p. m. 

Thursday—Varsity Basketball practice, 9:30 a. m. Meeting of "The Tore Club," 7:30 p. m. Saturday—Entertainment and luncheon by the 
- Philopatrians, 7:30 p. m. 
Local News. 

—Next Wednesday evening wilt be the gala nisrht for" our football men. Then will take place at the Oliver the great annual Monogram banquet at which the battle-scarred warriors of '12 will receive their well-merited monograms. 
—Next Wednesday afternoon, Dec. 11, the preliminaries for the Breen Gold Medal for Orator}'- will take place in Washington hall. Many of our local "Patrick Henry's" are now hard at work rehearsing, so we are assured of hearing speeches well worth while. 
—^And next Tuesday is President's Day. Of course there will be the annual "big feed," the- band, and the final post-season football games. But the great feature of the holiday 
• will • be the production of David Garrick in Washington Hall. We are awaiting this event with great impatience, for, under the masterly supervision of Professor Koehler, we are certain that it will be the best ever produced at the University. 
—Evidently no one enjo)''ed the recent inter­scholastic event in - Chicago more than Mr. '. James Keeley, Managing Editor of the Chicago Tribune. - Early Friday morning lie telegraphed as follows: , ' ' 
'' Congratulations on the' outcome of the football debate.' Starting with this' year I will give annually," three prizes of fifteen, ten and five = dollars respectively to the best three accounts of the Thanskgiving Day - ganie. 
Stories not to exceed seven, hundred words; judges to be myself and our football experts; Students of course in journalism to participate." We desire to give public thanks to Mr. Keeley 
for this further  proof  of  interest-in us, and  to  
assure him that he will fi nd our writing men  as  
doughty  as  our  fighting  men.  

—We break all the printed rules of good behavior and publish without permission of the _ writer the following letter from Brother Lawrence Joseph, Director of Athletics in the Christian Brothers College, St. Louis, Missouri' "DEAR FATHER—Under date of March ist you. wrote me relative to Mr. Luke Kelly-who was then a candidate for the position of • football coach. We engaged him and' for the three months that he was in our service, we found him to be good, regular, and competent. He was a model to our young men, and Father, it is with sincerity that I -wish the institution that turns out such types of Christian manhood God-speed! I desire to thank you and- all Notre Dame people that had anything to do with bringing Mr. Kelly here, for the real service they have done. Needless to.- say, we have engaged him again for next season.' 
Very Cordially yours, ' BROTHER" LAWRENCE JOSEPH: 

CORBY VS. FRIARS. On Thanksgiving Day Corby Hall made her annual trip to Fort Wayne to do battle with the Friars of that city. The Braves tried: to outdo the Varsity by their score of 49 points against a team of well trained fighters. The contest' opened with a rush before a crowd of two thousand, with music and all the other features of a big league game. . ^ A few minutes after the opening play, Capt. Soisson was taken out because, of injuries. The backfield, with Nigro at full and Maloney and Bensberg at halves, gained consistently through the line, while Bensberg's long end runs and clever dodging was the sensation, of the day. Quarterback "Nig" Kane directed = an open game of forward passes which netted, big gains.. The strength of the line was often taxed by the plunging of the" hea,vy backs of the Friars, but the goal-was: never, in danger. Clean sportsmanship • marked the contest. After the game the Braves -were treated X6 a' sumptuous spread: The-Fort ;Wa3aie men . are good losers, thorough gentlemen,: and they best entertainers in'the state'. ' * ,.J •,".;, 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Our All-Western Men and the Press. 
Gillette of Wisconsin and Dorais of Notre Dame are nearl^'^ equal at quarterback, but the position is given to the Badger by a slight margin Dorais in another y&ax to play should develop into one of the best quarter­backs in this section of the country.—Eckersall in the Chicago Tribune. 
The addition of a fourth down in which to make ten yards put a premium on plunging fullbacks. Two Western men in this position relieved their quarters of a lot of Avorrj'' by their ability to penetrate their opponents' line or make headway outside the tackles when two or three yards were to be gained in the last try. They were Eichenlaub of Notre Dame and Tanberg of Wisconsin The former is given the place because he combined his line bucking strength with wonderful effectiveness in skirting the ends. 

Eichenlaub is one of the best fullbacks ever produced in this part of the country. T?ndoubtedly he would have been a star on any eleven had he elected to try for it. He is remarkably fast for so big a man and hard to tackle. He uses the -straight arm with good results, and possessed sufficient strength to keep on going even after he is grabbed by a foe. Tanberg has many of his \nrtues, but lacks his brilliance in the open field.—Lardner in the Chicsigo Examiner. 
Crowley of Notre Dame also is a polished end. He was a member of the Harvard eleven that beat Yale 4 to o, in" 1908. Marquette and the Hoosier's other opponents found him very troublesome tliis year.—Lardner in the Chicago Examiner. 
The centre position [All-Western] is given to Des Jardien of Chicago, although Feeney of Notre Dame is nearly his equal.—Eckersall in the Chicago Tribune. 
Berger and Pliska were both mentioned by several authorities as among the most valuable halfbacks in the West, while Eichenlaub and Dorais both receive honorable mention in Walter Camp's ail-American eleveiL 
; ^-^^•-^ • — • 
Safety Valve. 

When in the recent past the queens from the For­bidden Palace appeared at a lecture in Washington hall, you, should have seen some of the Entire Student Body brush up! 
*** 

Students wishing to secure books from the library may receive same by shouting their wishes from basement. Books may be returned any time within ten years. No questions asked. 
*** 
ExAiiPi^Es OF ALLITERATION. 
. ' Cutie Cusack 
Blondie Boujan 
Chubbie Corcoran 
Baldie Baldwin 
*** 

Luke Kelly^s team broke.up.everything in St. Louis, Don Hamilton's bunch * of. youngsters walloped all Wisconsin and neighboring states, and Harry lliller's. 
warriors Avon glory for Creighton College, Omaha. "Notre Dame's doin' it, doin' it, doin' it," as that man of classic mould, Joe Byrne, puts it. 
*** PEST 41. The Carroll kids running like -Indians before the. Main Building when coming, out from meals. " 
There was a meeting of the freshman laAvyers recently to select and vote on a class pipe. We suggest a gas pipe as the most appropriate class pipe for these legal lights. 
*** 
It is the ambition of this year's Dome makers to have the book store send out a wail offering twenty-seven previous Domes for one of theirs. Wonder how that strikes sedate Cyril J. Curran and Our Lange of polecat fame. 
*** 

Walter Camp, according to the literati of the art, makes up his so-called All-America from "inside" football. Probably he'd have put on Eichenlaub and Dorais if he had seen some "outside" football. 
At all events Walsh is interhall champion in the open-to-all Delinquent List contest. Ad multos annos, Walsh! Keep it up! 
*** The outlines for Litt. B. theses are due Dec. 10 Ph". From then on we'll have a superabundance of Ph sapience. *** Rockne (talking in his sleep the night before Mar­quette-N. D. game): Father, whom do you consider the best all-round end in the West? (pause) O thank you, Father, I really didn't expect that. 
*** 
THE TIP TOPS. 

Happy O'Council is Varsity short stop, student of Eng. IV., somewhat of a shark in Latin and quarter-for the studious Sorinites. We migh just at this point take up the question as to possible complications in the football situation if Sorin had tied St. Joe in that last interhall contest.- But in view of subsequent events the contingency is now inadmissable Therefore, we return to Happy O'Connell. Happy is from the East, plays pool, knows Hard Luck Campbell, and is the author of that classic phrase, "That's all the farther I got." He and Erich Barbarossa de Fries used to be great friends in the some time past.- But since Erich broke into our omniscient weekly with a "fine pome, I bet you," he has passed up Hap as a 
small one. Sic transit, etc. ^ Mr. Happy is still living, although placed away among the requiescant in pace crowd of Sorin hall. ; 
*** , 

The claim of light-weight championship in football advanced by the Walsh Chicks is disputed by, the second team before the last of St. Edward's hall. A post season game is therefore a possibility. 
, -. *** • ' 

Our old. rival, Yeh Wabash, gets a man on the iall-Western. Then talk . of, secondary championship for the little Giants. . . , 


'-^^ ^^'C"'/;­
 •• 
^fl-^ 
^^•>i: 

DiSG;£ QVASi-sempee- viciviev/s-• vive OVASI-GRAS-ivioieiTv/ie\ys-:: 
VOL. XEVII. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 13, 1913. Nor.ii. 
The Peerless Squad of the Gold and Blue. 
O F old when brave knights in the tourney had vanquished the last of their foes 
And were crowned by the Queen of Beauty, full sweet were the shouts that arose Of acclaim from the thronging thousands who had Avitnessed their valor and. might,. But the pride of their near and dear ones was the core of their heart's delight; E'en so Avith our Knights of the Oval who have travelled the farthest afield Of all the squads in the country, and have forced all their foemen to yield,— They have joyed in the cheers of spectators in the West, East, and South, it is tcue,­But the praise they love best is the home-praise— 
Their home of the . . Gold and Blue. 
Then, sing we-the song of their triumph, their glory, fair-shining afar. 
And tell Ave our pride in their proAvess uplifting oiir fame above par,— ' -­
The thrill of delight that enthralled us and lingered in eA'^ery breast 
When West Point Avatched our boys meet the Arihy, and Aactory pointed Avest. , 
Penn State was made pensive indeed by oiir score, and the " Christians" uhchristianly sad, . 
But our hearts only shouted Vce victis the,more, as our souls grcAv increasingly.glad; I . 
Then, to cap the fair climax of triumphs, the Longhorns bowed low to us, too, ' 
So, here's to our,stars, the ,"AU-UniA'^erseV' , .:-' • ­
The squad.of the _ . ' " r 
. - Gold and Blue! _ 
"There were brave men'before Agameranon," Yes, heroes we'Are had before, . . ; Nor pluck we a leaf from thegarlands they Avon and right worthily bore: ... 7 ,s7 There Avere Farleys..and Salmons and Dolans and "Red" Millers in the years gone by, , And their-Alma Ma,ter femeinbers that they planted her.-colors W , -' % But in vain,,will you search the-records, Brother._Boha. himself, has ne'er-seen. -' 
i-;-:-=x»:i;Sjft 
The equals of'Harper's invincibles, oiir peerless orproiid'13. -..;..--; ' Their game?marked an'epoch'in football, and Fame; pays^^^^J^^ homage due ^ .:.'.:;-;.,: ,To \Dorais ,andj ".Eich'V and.;.Rockne, .with ; , . -•,-'.•'•,. =^ . r K;>-' " •;/',- ••-•,:•,.'-"• ^' . -. • •-"^ : Their 'mates.= of' the . ~ ';. . V;, - :"-_V:7 .kV?::^ 
•"•;•.._•-. ••'•-•',•;'->''. • -.•"_; V .-^ ." ' ... •'.." '^- ''--•• Vf 7'Gold'-and:-Blue,.':'";-\ ':.,-.•",'-fr.^l "•'-•' •'"'--'-• ''r~'' :'''"' •' /'* '['-' ' .'•' "-''7 ' '. .•.. '•' • .. '=.'"- •• '' ' *. ^--" J'„ ARTHUR"--BAiutr:';-'.^ 
,:r-.--'#v;~^-,. 
Notre Dame in Football History. 
ARTHUR J. HAYES, 15. 
The declining sun was casting long blue shadows over the rugged slopes of the Lace­daemonian hills, and flooding in golden light the vast gathering that thronged the broad Plain of Sparta. Near, the centre of a great square flanked on all sides by thousands of alert spectators, half a hundred 3-oung men struggled in a chaotic group. Suddenly from out of the agitated mass there bounded a large leather ball, and a stock}'- young man, detaching himself from the rest, sent it soaring toward two upright posts at one end of the field. A mighty cheer went up therewith, for Flavins Maecinus—013'^mpic hero. Spartan prototype, and predecessor by twentj'^-two centuries of our own all-American star, Dorais—had kicked goal. 

With the advent of the Roman legions, substantial modifications were made in the old Laconian game, and when introduced into Britain by the soldiers of Julius Agricola, the square had been changed to a rectangle, and of the twenty-seven men comprising a team, fifteen were designated as "forwards," five were so-called "defensive backs," four cor­responded to our halfbacks, and the remainder constituted a trio of fullbacks. According to one chronicler of legionar}?^ pastimes, the ball was either kicked or carried between the goal posts, two fouls counted a goal for the side offended against, and goals were changed as often as points were scored. Inveighed against as an "ungodly" sport, decreed against as detrimental to perfection in archer}'-, football continued to be popular in England throughout the centuries that ensued after the legions of Rome had first introduced the sport. Year after year, this form of play persisted without radical change or modification. Then in 1823, "Rugby" footJaall was born of a deliberate infraction of the rules of the game by one William Webb ElHs, who violated all precedent and tradition by running with the ball in a desperate endeavor to score in the last minute of play. This spectacular feat, though palpably a foul, so commended itself, to devotees of the sport, that the practice of running with the ball was incorporated into the game. 
The year 1869 witnessed the first college contest in this country when Princeton and Rutgers played" an original game of football, 
partaking of the natures of both "soccer" and 
"Rugby." Columbia followed in the succeed­
ing 3'-ear and Yale in 1872. Then Harvard 
tutored in Canadian "Rugby" by McGill, 
challenged Yale to play under the same rules, 
and intercollegiate football in "the United States 
was fairty launched. 

It was still a comparatively recent innovation in the West in 1887, when the University of Michigan sent a team down to play Notre Dame. The local aggregation were so little conversant with the game that their sponsors had to stage an exhibition contest in order that the pioneers of the Gold and Blue might know how to proceed. But Notre Dame's initial effort, thus inau­spiciousl}' inaugurated, was worthy of the name she has since upheld. For the invaders were able to score onl}^ eight points against the neophytes of the Hoosier school. Two con­tests the following 3''ear, resulted in a double victor};- for Michigan by margins so narrow that the result of the game was in both instances problematical until the last few minutes of 
pla};-. The following season saw but one per­formance on the local gridiron, a featureless contest resulting in the defeat of the Harvard Law school of Chicago. 
In 1889 occurred the first foreign invasion, and Northwestern University succumbed to Notre Dame at Evanston, after a bitterly con­tested game in which Cartier and Prudhomme starred. After this meinorable battle there was a lapse of two years, following an expression of disapproval b};- the faculty. In 1S92 the mar-­velous punting of Ouinlan enabled the locals to register a tie score with Hillsdale. Four games the next season resulted in four victories for "the locals," and then in-1894 Notre Dame was pitted against the renowned eleven of Chicago. As was the case in the Michigan game, in which the Gold and Blue ma};- be fairl}'- said to have made its debut, onl}'- eight points were rolled up, but they were all on the wrong side of the ledger. This defeat was retrieved by five other victories, including among them wins from Wabash and Rush Medical., 
The annals of .1895 have inscribed in them but two games—a. victor}^ over the Chicago Physicians and Surgeons, and a defeat at the hands of Northwestern. Two defeats ad­ministered earl3r in the season of 1896 by Chicago and the Chicago Ph^'^sicians and Surgeons augured ill for Notre Dame, .but out of the three 
363. 


-•^A^ 
•/" 

remaining games, they managed to secure two victories, losing the third b}'-a margin of six points to Purdue. Of the six games scheduled for 1S97, but one was lost, and that to Chicago, 34 to 5. Among the victories may be noted a 4—0 defeat of Depauw, and a 34-6 win from the Michigan Aggies. Indiana and IlUnois appea.r for the first time on the '98 schedule, the former winning 11—5, and the latter losing 5-0. Michigan appeared again as our Nemesis, garnering the protracted end of a 23-0 score. 
With the termination of that year, it may be said that Notre Dame had concluded her apprenticeship. After that there appear such schools as Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana, Purdue, 
' jMichigan, and Chicago. The percentage of defeats diminishes appreciably, the number of victories expand in proportion. 
An ambitious roster of nine games for 1S99, resulted in decisive defeats for Indiana, North­western, Michigan Aggies and several, smaller colleges, and losses to Chicago, Micliigan and the hitherto vincible Chicago Physicians and Surgeons. The 3'^ear of the double cipher re-. suited in two ciphers for the Gold and Blue and taUies of 54 and 7 for Wisconsin and Mich­igan, respectively. Indiana txirned the.tables on the locals, and they in turn reversed the count of their conquerors of the preceding year, the Physicians and vSurgeons. [ Rush Medical and Cincinnati also succumbed, while Beloit by herculean efforts earned a tie. ;And. this year, it ^ere not irrelevant to remark^: is memorable for other reasons. It witnesses the' beginning of the great career of the justly. renowned Salmon,—Salmon whose .marvelous line smashing was the despair of opposing elevens, whose, wonderful, kicking averted many . an ^ impending-defeat, whose football gehius^^ was, 
; siich. as to earn him the position of fullback on , G. W. -Axelsou's AH-American selection.! for ^ 
his fellow warriors in 1902 Avere the Michigan 
Aggies. Indianai Ohio Medical, Depauw and 
the American/Medicals met the same fate. 
Micliigan and .Knox proved the exceptions, 
while Purdue with its remarkable faculty for 
tying the locals, again held them 6 to 6. 
The season of 1903 Js,especially noteworthy 

because not one of the eight competmg teamS 
was able • to score a single point against the 
defenders of the Gold and Blue. Northwestern, 
however, held them to a scoreless tie. Against 
the uninterrupted ser;ies of ciphers that bear 
testimdn)'- to the efficiency of Notre Dame's -defensive tactics, there, is martialled a grand total of 260 points., 
The "Little Giants" led off the following 

5'^ear, and were forced to content themselves 
with four points as against the 12 registered 
by Notre Dame. American Medical, Ohio 
Medical and Depauw were easy. Not so, 
however, Wisconsin, Kansas or Purdue. These 
latter annexed the substantial end of the score ,by margins rather too liberal to leave much solace for the vanquished. . 
But it reihained for 1905 to sound the depths 

of defeat and vicissitude. Deprived of the 
invaluable talent of \Salmon and several of 
his most noteworthy teammates, the colors 
of Notre Dame;were "trailed." by Wis,consin, 
Wabash, Indiana and Purdue. In partial 
atonement for these defacers of our. escutcheon, 
we succeeded.in swamping .the. MichiganjAggies, 
Depauw, Bennett Medical. a.nd American Med­
ical, the last by the .overwhelming scoreipf;i42 to 
nothing.-. 
The sweetness of ireyenge,-not long:deferred, 
was experienced when Purdue was vanquished . in a desperate encounteri 2 to o. The Michigan Ag^ie.r game.. .was featiired only by, the -small score rolledup by Notre Dame., But; the five fMDints recorded,: f^^^ the Hoo.siers ha'd-s all the 
AU-Time. • Apropos of the peffprmanSes: of; the . merit bfiathQiisand, for they sufficed to win. : aubiirn-haired paragon, Axelson remarks,'" That;, .The;;Physicians arid Surgeons accepted defeat Salmon was able to carry the baU, nine _tiines' .TOth .the-good gra^ of: repeated experience, 
• oiit^of ten; and\ make, his ;(iistance.ey^ry, time,..; and ^ the 5 smaller. coUeges' B.elpit, Fra.nklin and , stamps; him: as thie greatest-line plungmg^mll-: HiUsdalfe= (of {. 10. toj^ip. ;fame) bowed to the : « back .in the history^ of tie garne.'!' '<-/£'%;>' ;:. 11 /meyitable^ m^ engendered 
: {'Tb&f^sifjeai^ ofy the;, new cehtnip^rmarked^ IJ the jrecprding bfc but 'one defeat: in aj^series of • ;:^;3ght ^batoesj. and;^ by but; twb'rpbmts ;to >; |. ISrbrtfiwe^^^^ ' Vvf^&J^tmayLbe^ y-:^ndf ^e^rCficagc tPhysicra^ 
[:f :;^^;TEe-&sC 



m0m^mm»^^m 

;of il.ongl|)r^^ice^ 2 to o victory pre­
•yented; the;;" \moleskin, heroes from 
jbpastmgja%cleaii slafe. ; Again the next: season We.iiefeatedl'urduei^t^ andfKiipx^^^^^ The sinaU fry went doWn .&:s:::lusual;!^^^ (tti^ autumn;'of. ,1908 cariie thej^^&st reaU^ 
^-i?v!?i^^^--:>:p.P-?:^r:-:. 

years. Indiana, Wabash, Marqiiette) •" Ohio Northern and the smalier colleges,' as St.'Viateur's Franklin and Hillsdale, fell before the brilliant slashing onslaught of the ^Notre Dame 'eleven. Only the phenomenal kicking' of Allerdice ^averted a similar fate for Michigan, and' even then the best that' Yost's aggregsLtion could do was to run up twelve points against our six. With the defeat of Indiana came the champion­ship of the state, and the assurance that the representatives of Notre Dame constituted 
' one of the very best teams in the entire West. In the stirring struggles of' '08, Miller, Dolan, Edwards and' Philbrook gave some intimation of what they were to accomplish during the next' campaign. 
Nineteen hundred and nine! What memories it holds for Yost! What glories for the G'old and Blue! When indeed shall fade the memory of that "practice game" when Notre Dame was" the practicer and the Wolverines to all intents .and purposes the "practicees?" Probably no line in the country could have successfuU}'-'; with­stood that smashing onslaught. ^ Certainly Mich-^ 
igan could not, and when Miller and Dolan, Vaughan and Philbrook had done their worst, Michigan's supremacy was a thing of fondest memory only, and Notre Dame, in avenging past defeats, had incidentally won the champion­ship of the West. How fitting that Notre Dame should have been initiated into the mysteries of the game by Michigan. How maddening that Longman should have been, the erstwhile pupil of Yost. • '" : 
Miller was the All-Western selection for 
right half, and Vaughan season, the men and the remembered. 
Notre Dame was willfflg 
 for fulltack. The  games will long be • ' i^ ' ; • 
 to repeat thelper­

formance in 1910, but Michigan cancelled the tilt at the last hour. Then to add to our dis­comfiture, the Michigan Agricultural College "got the jump" on the locals in some inex­plicable fashion, and won 17 to' o.;^ They thereby achieved the distinction' of being the last eleven to defeat the Gold and Blue.? Over ^ the lesser lights,—and they predominated on the schedule—Notre Dame scored easy vic­tories. A victory over Wabash and ties -with Marquette and Pittsburg featured the ;^ season of 1911. Last year we won the;State .Cham­pionship from Wabash, defeated Pittsburg 3-0, swamped Marquette 69-0, and' snowed' under the usual quota of secondary schools.; "EicHen­
SCHOLASTIC ^65 

laub, our marvelous fullback, was unanimous choice for the all-Western eleven. This .year's greater achievements will be dealt-with fully elsewhere. , SuflSce to say that - we' have con­quered in the East, the West,' and .the South. From the picturesque banks of the Hudson to the placid plains of Texas, the Gold and Blue has flown in triumph. In defeating the^Army we exhibited the "finest forward passing ever seen in the East." ^By comparative scores we are better than Yale. By actual battle-test, the • Notre Dame team is superior to West Point, Penn State, Texas). South Dakota, Ohio Northern and Christian Brothers. • • jOne man graces an ail-American selection as quarter. Another is second choice for ail-American honors as fullback. Three have been unanimously selected for the all-Western.., Two more Notre Dame stars are second-choice, selections: . Of all claims to the Western Championship,-ours is probably the strongest and most logical. ^ 
Notre Dame's deeds on the gridiron have been chronicled for over a quarter of a century. Such names as those of Salmon, Mullen, Farley, Eggeman, Harley, Philbrook, Dimmick, MiUer Vaughan, Eichenlaub, Kelly, Dorais and Rockne will not be soon forgotten. Yet they are but 
. a few of a list that could be extended indefinitely. Such, coaches as Tiering, McWeeny, O'Dea,"^ Barry, Longman, Marks and. Harper will - be long, remembered as the unseen factors in our success. _ /> ' 
Schedules, "stars," and plays,.like the shin guard, the "flying wedge" and the nose guard, have gone the way of the buffalo. The football world moves rapidly. What was an innovation yesterday will be obsolete tomorrow. 'The great Adctories, the stars of the. moment, are soon lost sight of in anticipation of the. next schedule. They are merged, enveloped •'as it were, in the past. But the records they, have made, the reputations they have buildedi up, still remain. They are the heritage of a brill­iant pasti making for a stiU more glorious future. Notre- Dame has battled East and> West with most remarkable success. And :to those^ of discernment, it will be evident that the, end-is not yet. And when other men and.other teams have achieved other "triumphs,; we who cherish the memories of '11 and '12 and^'is, will rejoice to inscribe the record of their ;^ attainments in those deathless annals of the Gold and Blue, now bright with the .names and deeds of-Dorais, Eichenlaub, Rockne, and other heroes of today. 
The Champions of the West. 
WILLIAM M. GAL\r[N, 14. 
Reviewing the season of '13 puts the writer in the same class with a swain tr3dng to de­scribe his" lady love. Words utterh'- refuse to be gathered into a combination that will do it justice. All the descriptive power of Homer added to the insight of Shakespeare would fall short. And leaving these bush-league writers for the trul}'' great, we believe . that even the New York, sporting scribes with all their "brilliants," '' spectaculars," " dazzlings," and "superbs," that greeted our team after the Army game, must get less than a passing mark on their work. But the}'' did their best: we can do no more than follow suit. 
Here in the V/est, we are con­ceded an equal claim to sectional honors by even the most biased. Chicago critics admit that the Var-sit}'- is the equal of the Maroons and concede that we have the edge on Nebraska, Michigan, and the Michigan Aggies. Detroit critics,­in turn, admit that the Gold and Blue eleven is the equal of any­thing in Michigan, and believe we are somewhat superior to Chicago. Eastern critics, whose judgments 
.are tempered by distance, readily 
concede the Western Championships 
to- Notre Dame. The. East .how­
ever, is inclined to place Harvard 
ahead of the Varsit}'- as the all-round 
team of America. The West, view-. 
ingthe same field, thinks that there 
CoACH 
are at., least a quartet of elevens west of the Alleghenies that are' better than the best in the East. All this reminds us of the vote, taken hj the Greek generals after the battle of- Salamis to determine which general showed the greatest bravery. Each voted him­self first and Themistocles second. In sectional and national championship tangles, Notre Dame holds the place of Themistocles. It is awarded second by aU, although, they vote themselves first;. /Hence it is no idle.boast to say that* we are Champions of the West. 
We of the present have no doubt that Var-sit}'" '13 is the greatest eleven that ever did honor to the Gold and Blue, and our belief is borne out by the "old timers" who saw the excellent work of the '01 wonders and of the '09 Champions of the West. It is the greatest team in many wa3'^s. It pla^'^ed a greater schedule, against greater foes, displayed greater team-work, won greater renown, and counted among its number greater individual stars than any other team Notre Dame has known. 
•The year began auspiciously in some ways; inauspiciously in others. The sched­ule arranged by Coach Harper was the best ever gotten together for our eleven, including, as it did, South Dakota, the Arm}'^, Penn State and Texas. But to get these games worthy of the mettle of our Varsit}'-, it was necessary to go a thousand miles to the east and fifteen hundred miles to the south, handicapping our men by distance greater than any other team in the country did this seasjon. It meant, besides travel­ling long distances and playing our strongest enemies on their own fields, that we would have to over­come the added handicaps of new water and strange weather. We had to pla}' under ever}'" conceivable disadvantage, and when the season opened we admit we entertained fears for the Varsity. 
To reassure us, we had the knowledge that most of the last 3'^ear's men would be back. "WTio could ask for a greater heritage than Capt. Rockne, ex-Capt. Dorais, Eichenlaub, Feene}'^, Jones, Pliska, 

 HARPER. 
Berger, Fitzgerald, Finegan, Gus­hurst, Larkin, Lathrop, andj a generous quota of .first class reserves? It is true,, we -lost Crowley and Dolan, an excellent pair of ends, and Harvat and Yund, tackles, which losses made -room. for misgivings concerning the strength of the forwards. 
As the season advanced, however, our con­fidence grew. The beautiful fighting spirit with which the Varsity played and won the South Dakota game, after an accident had allowed the " Coyotes" to take the lead, in­spired hope that never grew less. Then when 
y 

our perfect forward  
passes added to ter­ 
rific line - smashing  
trailed West Point's  
colors in the dust we  
felt sure, as we do  
now, that Varsity  
'13 has no equal in  
the countr}'-. Penn  
State was taken into  
camp b}"- our men  
after we had covered  
twenty-five hundred  
miles the previous  
week. The score of  
14 to 7 does not  
adequately tell our  
superiority over the  
Quakers, but it can  
CAPT. ROCKNE  be gleaned another  
All-Western End  way. Varsity hum­ 
bled  the Army 35 to  13; Army trounced the  

Navy 22 to 9; the Na^^ in turn defeated Penn State 10 to o. At St. Louis the Christian Brothers were hopelessly outclassed. The field was as heav}?" as a ncAvly plowed field; the re­serves played most of the time, and then had no difiiculty in winning. As a fitting close to the season Capt. Rockne led his men against Texas, Champions of the Southwest. Here again the superb physical condition of our men and their knowledge of the game made them­selves apparent. In summer weather and against 
men who outwcighted them, the Varsit}'-first wore out and then scored at will on the strongest team ever devel­oped in the SouthAvest. 
More than ever before Notre Dame has been given the recognition that is its just due. Both in head­lines and in cartoons we have taken our place with the greatest in the country. 
Perhaps the most pleasing of all our • successes is the recognition wrung from" the critics who have picked all-section and all - American teams. This year we have won more distinction than BrcHENLAUB, All- any other Notre Dame team Western Fullback • in history, and more than 
any other team in the West for the season just closed. Dorais, than whom there is no better football player, has grown to such a height (speaking foot­bally) that Eastern critics have been forced to see him above the Appalachians, and he has been picked by practically all who have made all-Araerican selections. Western dopesters have been unanimous in select­ing a trio of our stars for all-Western honors: Dorais at quar­ter-back, Rockne at end, and Eichenlaub at fullback. There is one ridiculous exception, where a coach has picked practically his own team for 
DORAIS. All­
all-jSIichigan, all-Western, and 
AmericanQuarter 
all-America n. His only mis­take was in not awarding himself both end-positions. On second all-Western choices we find Feeney at Centre and' Pliska at halfback, making Notre Dame's representation by far the greatest of any school in this section. We believe that the experts are overlooking something mighty good when they pass up Jones, but it's a great deal to ask to get half of one eleven on the all-Western. The all - Indiana critics' opinions can't be given much weight. Last year they refused to give Dorais an all-state berth when he came within" an ace of hooking all - Western. This 3''ear they have had to recognize our all-Western first team men, and. they have also recognized Eeeney as all-State centre (one, by the way, leaves noth­ing to be asked for by us, having put "Al" on the all-State, all-Western, and ail-American), but when such men as Jones are slighted to give place to a member of some normal school we begin to think that the state critics are LINE COACH' 

no more serious than EDWARDS 
THE NOTRE DAME
Gardner was when he picked eight Eastern 
men on his all-Western eleven. 
Besides winning all this renown for Notre .Dame, the Varsity has brought laurels to the 
West b}' winning from Army and Penu State. Coach Harper, a product of the West himself, has raised the West above the East in football this 3'^ear, and to him much of the season's success must be attributed. He found the ver}'^ best of material, it is true, but he added finishing touches, here and there, developed new men, w^orked out new pla3"s, inspired the never-sa3''-die and stick-together spirit in his men, and his reward is a perfect season. He has brought Notre Dame athletics to conform to Conference regulations, by ruling freshmen ineligible for the Varsity; he has made the success of the season possible by scheduling big games for the Gold and Blue; he coached the best team that ever graced Cartier Field. 
But when we search for the ultimate cause of" our triumphs w^e must admit that it was the-machine-like precision of the squad. No man played for himself, but all pla3''ed for victors'-. It is true that Dorias, with his perfect forward passing, his nimble field-running, his accurate toe, and his heady generalship, was one of the greatest factors of our victories ;­it is also true that Capt. Rockne's catching of Ddrais' passes, his beautiful interference, and his deadly tackling made him the most valuable man in the line, and that Eichenlaub's powerful line smashing made him occupy a like position in the backfield; but when all is said and done, it was the team that won the battles. 
Yes, the teaiii won the battles, but the "subs'." and "scrubs," and their coach, "Cap" Edwards, had a whole lot to do in putting them in condition to win. Theirs is a thankless task—rthe reserves'. They go out daily and withstand the knocks and bruises of - their stronger,squad-mates; they work as. hard as the nien on the Varsity eleven, but when the day of battle is at hand, the}'- are forgotten in the greater glory of the regulars. But to cull a phrase from the classic vocabular3^ of the Texas galler3'--gqds who greeted the teain, "We know you. Scrubs, and we appreciate 3'-ourv work.',' 
We dohot envj'^ Yost his. football squad, . ' 
• Far better-teams each one of us. can find, ;. Biitwheh.he^picked his all-American . j ;':"We envied Mrl Yost his state of niind. 

^rtSlj^Si^r^.^" 


SCHOLASTIC 
Looking Backward—1953. 
HUGH V. LACEY, '16. 
The old "gink" sat in,his big arm-chair 
And never a move moved he. 
There on his chest was a sweater vest 
Of blue, and .bright loomed up the crest 
or a great, big, gold N. D. 
His dome was bowed with the heft of years 
And gray as a badger's fur. 
And in his eyes I could recognize 
A "pine" for the days of the old, old guys,— 
He sighed for the teams that were. 
Past glory's staunch custodian. 
Immovable he sate.. 
When I sneaked near to his one good ear 
And said '-We've got some team this year," 
Thus did he ruminate: 
'Have you a 'Rock' to lead your push?" His croaking voice began, 'Or a midget 'Dory' to cop off glory From fields with foeman's blood made gox}., Or a single Finegan?" 
'Have you a Pliska or a Jones, 
A Feeney or Lathrop, 
An Eichenlaub, to start the throb 
Of joy a-spurting through the mob 
When the other plungers flop?" 
'A Gushurst holding down the wing, 
A Fitz. stuck in between, 
A good, old Keefe, and, to be brief. 
Great subs?—No chaff in the wheated sheaf 
Of those 'Champs'—Nineteen Thirteen!" 
Then reminiscent stirred his soul, ; 
He sighed-"Gadzooks,'alas, ... ' 
When they ran amuck, with ,that shifting buck 
They hit the line like a Kelly truck. 
Or histed a forward pass.". 
I harked unto the old man's words 
.Then.beat it on my way. , / 
The thing I spoke seemed but a joke 
Beside the Ancient's truthful croak 
" How those warriors , could play " 
Yea, dowii in history they've goney :' , 
And nicked the Hall of Fame. / 
Though they drop away in the world's decay 
And. are resolved - b ack into clay, • ­
They'll live at Notre Dame.. .' ' 
•i-­


iHE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 

The Team. 
TIMOTHY GAI^VIN, '16 . 

Notre Dame's unparalleled success this year is due primarily to her team and not to any individual stars. The team is composed, how­ever, of eleven individual stars and as man}­substitutes who would be stars if they were on any other team in the country. To do justice to the men on printed pages is impossible and we attempt the task only because to pass them by without mention would be greater injustice. 
" KNUTE RocKNB, Captain, End. 

To be captain of the 1913 team is an honor and it could not have fallen upon a more worthy man than Knute. He was a* willing, a faithful, an ideal leader, and a team that followed whither he led could not have failed to win. The duties of leadership did not interfere with Rockne's playing, but rather inspired him to greater efforts. "Rock" was severe!}'- injured in the first game of^ the season, but he rejoined the squad as soon as possible and fought his way to all-State and all-Western honors. He took care of his end in the way that had made him an idol for tAvo previous seasons, breaking up plays and using his wonderful speed and strength to the best advantage. It was in the open-field work, however, that Rockne starred this 5'"ear. Time after time, he raced away from the line of scrimmage and gathered in the long passes from the unerring hand of Dorais, or downed in his tracks the opponent who received a punt. "Rock" gathered in a forward pass for the first touchdown against Army, and a week later repeated the play at Penn State. Our captain finished his football career Thanksgiving day. His loss to the '14 squad will be severely felt. 
CHARLES DORAIS, Quarterback. 

Alexander wept for .more worlds to conquer. Well might our "Dory "d o likewise, for today he is king of the football world. For four years he has directed our teams. He has led our warriors to. twenty-seven victories, and only one defeat. "Whether Fate smiled or frowned upon our iiicomparable general, he was always the same. With dogged, but brainy.persistence he kept chuckling Fame under the chin, as it were, until she had to smile. Year after. year, he has grown better, and this year h,e has at­tained to a perfection unequalled in the football world. There'is no department of the game which he has not mastered. Running a iream, 
punting, drop kicking, open-field running, fqr^ . 
ward passing—at all these he is at home and*, 
admits no superior in the East, South, or West.. 
It is hard to imagine a Notre Dame team.with^ 
out a Dorais, but "Dorv^" will be hitting'the 
world with as much success next year as he was 
football this, and we must let him go: We 
offer you the full measure of our gratitude, 
Dorais, for the glory you have won for Us. 
To mention that you have been accordedc 
all-American quarterback" position by even-
prejudiced critics would be to repeat a »fact • 
oft told by now. 
RAYMOND EICHENLAUB, Fullback. 

For three years, Eichenlaub has been the mainstay of the backfield. We have become " so used to seeing him there and so confident of-his ability that we shudder to think of the time when the Gold and Blue must go on the field without him. His terrific spe^d, his buU-dog courage, and his ability to hit the fine for a gain when everj'-thing else fails, has made him . one,of the greatest players of his day. This is the second time he has won all-.Westem hondrs, which is some honor in itself, and "Eich" has taken a place in Notre Dame's hall of footbaU, fame beside Salmon and Yaughan, making the greatest trio of fullbacks any school has ever > produced. Eich is the heaviest man on the team, weighing 195 pounds, but he is fast-as a rabbit, and more than once this year he has surprised" opponents by getting awa^?- on long ; end runs. Luckily he will be spared to the '14I Varsity. When "Dorj^" is gone, "Eich" will likely be called upon to do the kicking. If-Camp will but notice what our fullback can-do* with his trusty right toe, and then consider his': all-round offensive and defensive ability, we-, feel sure that he will escort Miss All-America ­on her second visit to Notre Dame. L "-' 
ALBERT G. FEENEY, Centre. • --i^ : 

Feeney is one of the quartet of Notre Dam^j^' stars who finished their college football careers ' against the Longhoms, Thanksgiving Day:; That he is an exceptional centre - is evidenced ­by the fact that Eckersall ranks him second^ only to Des J ardien of Chicago and by the,fact­that he has twice been selected all-State centre. . '' Al'' was pitted against inenhea\aer than himself , in almost ever}'- game, but he was always^able;-;, to outplay his man. -The Indianapolis youths was the key.of the Varsity attack and defense.j; He is perfect with his passes of the ball, couldi^^ 
<^-i^ 
-^-.^-fffjf^. 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
open holes on offense, and was a strong factor in our secondary defense. "Wide awake" sums up "Al" in a game. This 3-ear he inter­cepted two passes, which, if completed, would have meant scores for opponents. One of these at Penn State would have tied the score. We \\dll be sorry to lose Feeney, and his memor}'^ will live mth all those who have seen him play. 
JOSEPH S. PLISKA, Halfback. Fleet of foot, a sure tackier, master of the art of recei\nng passes, able to pick holes in an Opponent's defense or to rnake them for himself, Pliska is an ideal halfback. This is Joe's third year in football and as his experience grows, his worth to the Gold and Blue becomes greater. Pliska struck his real stride in the Army game. Pie picked passes out of the clouds, hit the Cadet line for long gains, and skirted the ends 
like  the  wind.  He  never  plays  below  form,  
although  he  is  spectacular  at  times.  Pliska  
was  EckersalFs  choice  for  second  all-Western  

this 3'^ear, and will have a chance to make the iirst pick next 3'^ear. KEITH K. JONES. Tackle. 
" Deac" is the one best bet that the all-section critics has overlooked this year. We do not beHeve he has a superior in the countr}'-, al­though all-Western, and even all^State critics have given positions to tackles who play on normal schools in prefereiice to him. He is absolutely without fear, and although he pla^'^s a careful game, he .plays hard all the time. He is a sure tackier and impenetrable-on defense. There is not a harder man on the team. Al­though knocked out in the first minute of play in the South Dakota game, he came back with a grin on his face, and Capt. Brown of the Co3'-otes was forced to the wall. After the Army gaine. Coach Harper said: " I wouldn't trade Jones for any tackle in the country; he's light, but he can handle them all." No wonder Coach Harper made this, remark, for" "Deac" 
, had worn out five men in the game. In Texas he wore out three men, the first enjoying the reputation of never having been taken out of a game in three AT^ears. He will 'pla)'':next A'^ear, and refusal to-award him all-Western honors-will put -the critics in a strange position. 
• FREDERICK GUSHURST, End. 

r Tn Gusluirst, Rockne had a fit'rurining mate. Anbldinterhall selection of two years' standing, .he showed his mettle on the Varsity last season as substituted half back. Ends'were-scarce Jthis fall, however, and." Giis'' went in to fill "Chuck-' '• Crowley's old shoeS. He made good with a bang. Hc-can gather in forward passes, and when called upon, can hit the line. He has few superiors in breaking up interference. He -was especialh'- good against his South Dakota compatriots, and against the Army. All-West­ern honors Avere not too good for him, but critics tremble to place more than five men of one team on tlieir selections. 
CHARLES T . FINEGAN, Halfback. 

We are proud of Finegan because he has been developed from interhall material. Two years ago he Avas a Corby star. Last year he won a monogram as a substitute for Dorais and Eichenlaub. This year Sam has proved one of the surprises of the season. He was injured at the beginning of the season but returned to the game in time to take Berger's place when the latter was hurt. Finegan has a powerful plunge and a knack of twisting as he hits the Hne that carries him through for good gains. He can also catch passes, and best of all, he loves the game. Finegan will return to the squad next season, and if no new star is developed will likely be a candidate for quarterback. 
FREMONT FITZGERALD, Guard. 

This was "Fitz's" second A'-eai: on the team, and the big Oregonian played a splendid game at guard. He was the biggest man in the line, and not an ounce "of his strength was wasted. In the Penn State and Arm}'- games "Fitz" pla3'^ed the Eastern linemen off their feet. He stopped pla^^s that came his way and often broke up opposing pla)'-s before the}'' could get started. At the offensive game he is a "bear." He played at centre in the Christian Brothers game, and may find a regular berth at the pivotal position next year. . 
RALPH G. LATHROP, Tackle. 

Lathrop was drafted from interhall circles in the middle of the season last year and under the efficient coaching of Dunbar developed into a strong lineman. His work in the Pittsburg and St. Louis games won him a monogram. This season he was shifted to tackle and proved a consistent player. Long and rangy he covers a great deal of ground and is a power on de­fense. "Slim" is a,; game fighter with plenty of football'brains. He and Jones vshoidd make another pair of-tackles such as Dimmick and Philbrook= were; • ; ./ 
EMMETT" 'KEEFE,' Guard. Keefe was the only'new man on the team. He was on the squad all of last-year but ha^ 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
little opportunity to show his ability in games. 
He is a quiet worker and few considered him 
for a regular berth at the start of this season. 
But the down-state boy has a world of weight 
and strength, and he was just the man to fill 
the gap left by Yund. He played his best game 
against Penn vState when he was most needed. 
He has two more years to play. 
ARTHUR B . LARKIN, Halfback. 
Xarkin, like Finegan, is a former interhall 

man. "Bunnie" was kept off the regular 
team only by such fast men as Pliska and 
Finegan. His expert dodging makes him a 
splendid halfback. He was used in ever)* big 
game except the Penn State conflict, and always 
acquitted himself Avell. He will return. 
ALLEN H . ELWARD, End. 
Flward was the lightest man on the line, 

but-his playing in the South Dakota game was 
nothing short of marvellous. Time" after time 
he spilled the interference and threw the runner 
•and it was a delight to see him pull down forward passes. When Capt. Rockne came back to the game, "IMal" had to give way, but we alwaj's felt secure because Ave knew he could handle the job if anA'thing turned up. 
WILLIAM J- COOK, Guard, Tackle 

Cook Avas one of the Reserves Avho took the kicks and cuffs of the Varsity last year without receiving any honors. This year he Avas one -of the strongest men on the squad and the 
regular linemen had to fight every minute to 
keep "Bill" from displacing them. Cook got 
his chance against South Dakota after Jones 
was forced out. He went in and held BroAvn, 
the AA'^estern giant, in CA'^ery play. He also 
AA^orked the full gam.e against the Christian 
Brqthers and half of the Longhorn contest. 
ALBERT V. KING, Guard. 

King AA^as on the Corby team last year,, and AA^on all-hall honors. This 3'"ear he was called out for the Varsity and made good. "Al" dcAJ^eloped wonderfulty under the coaching of "Cap " HdAA'ards and surprised CA'-en his friends by his playing. King charges hard- and is in every play. . He played in all the minor games, and was'Used at guard .against South" Dakota, Christian Brothers, and Texas. -. -; • 
ALVIN BERGER, Halfback. 
Berger was the most unfortuiiate man on • 

the team. Just when it seemed that he was" 
to have another great year at half, "Heine" 
Avas forcgd to leave the squad with an injured 
leg. He-got- back--just. irfrtime t o put sup-onHof— his old-time games against South Dakota carr}nng the ball for many gains. Soon after this game, Berger Avas again forced out by injuries and he did not get into any of the games in the latter part of the season. "Heine" AA'^as a splendid back in 'ii and '12 and if he had been fit he would have been as good this year. 
EDAVARD D . DUGGAN, Fullback. 

Duggan went out for full this year, knowing that there Avas no chance to displace "Eich," but Eddie played as though there Avere no other fullback in the Avest. Duggan starts fast^ and hits the line IOAV. He shoots through the line like a bullet, and seldom fails to gain substan-. tially. Eddie Avent into both the South Dakota and the Texas games during the last quarter,' and Coyotes and Eonghoms Avere alike power­less before him. He AA^U be back. 
ALFRED BERGM.A.N, Halfback. 

"We thought that Simmons Avas the fastest article aliA^e, but when that little Bergman got into the game, he Avent like a streak of greased lightning." This comment from Texas sums up the situation when "Dutch" is con­cerned. Not heavy, but fast and brainy, he is able to make long gains. We can never forget his feat of tAvo years ago, when he caught the ball behind his OAA'U goal and carried it n o yards for a touchdoAvn. We shall be glad to see him back next year. 
THE RESERVES. 

Kelleher, one of our most valuable plunging halfbacks, was kept out of the game again this year by injuries, and he Avas not able to show AA^hat is in him, but with better luck next year 
-he AA'ill be one of the most valuable men on the squad. Mills and Nowers, of basketball ex­perience, were a AJ-aluable pair at receiving passes and in playing the end positions as a whole. "Curly" snatched the ball out of the air and ••.carried it OA^er for a score in the .South Dakota game, and Mills did a like feat at Texas. Both Avill return: McLaughhn and Voelkers worked at center all year. The return of Feeney pre­vented thern from securing a regular berth, but they proved efficient-understudies for the all-State pivot :man. . Bush , and Sharp were the other men who- stayed out all; season. The former worked at quarter and ,the latter in the line. "Hardy" and "Art "are-worthy of great praise, for. their part in developing our great team,- and .we expect t o hear from both 
piLinext .y.ear':s.:squad;Jii'% : ^f l 1 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
The Freshman Team.' " 
R. DOWNEY. 
The husky Notre Efame Freshman squad 

deserves special praise because of |th^ successful 
work accomplished b}';^ this neVly', gathered 
eleven. It was hard tr35ing work for them all 
the way through the season. Father Farley who 
had the team in tow worked witlijtiiem every 
afternoon and was repaid by tur|iing out one 
of the strongest first-j'^ear teams in' the country, 
one of which any coach i might b^ proud. 
It was the first year for a freshmani te4m at Notre Dame, and on this account 'onlv? a liinited number of contests were scheduled, ibtct the showing made on every occasion was creditable, and their scrimmages Avith the Varsity, especially, showed the rnettle of the men. 
In the contest with Culver Military Academy, October ii, they defeated .the Cadets by the score, 6^0. This game, however, was no cri­terion of their strength as the team at that time had. only recentlj'^ been organized. On Nov. 8, - the yearlings journeyed to Toledo and defeated the fast Tpledo High School, ip-o. . 
The,-showing of the freshman, teatii this ,3'ear should certainly make us confident of the strength of the Varsity during the. next few j^ears. The freshman line outweighed the Varsity forwards and was not far behind them 
in fighting ability. With little coaching and 
another ^i-ear's experience man}'- of these men 
will be able to secure berths on the first team. 
The uniformity of team-work throughout the season did not interfere with brilliant in­dividual work done by such .stars as Cofall, Bachman, Yager, Thorpe and O'Donnell. In Bachman, Cofall and King the Freshmen had three men who could punt close to fift}'^ yards at every attempt. 
Captain Cofall, the exrEast High School star of Cleveland, is the open-field runner and line plunger extraordinary of the eleven. He ex­hibits wonderful skill at punting and drop kicking, is clever with the forward pass, and one of the best defensive, piayers in the backfield. 
King and Miller both look like comers at the end positions and if necessar}'- Yager can easil}'^ be shifted to one of the wings. Kowalski and Bachman did most of the line' plunging and even the strong Varsity line was not always able to hold. them. Bachman is heralded by the knowing ones as a coming Eichenlaub. He is a powerful linesman as well as charging fullback. 
Thorpe, pilot of the- eleven, used splendid judgment in running his team. He is a sure tackier, delivers the forward pass with great accuracy,' and is. good at running back punts. 
All in all we have nothing but praise for every member of the new team and we feel siure that the work done b}'^ them this year is work done for next year's Varsity.. 
M,.. 



THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
The above selections were chosen from lists Heroes All. 

made up by the-men who refereed the games. This plan was followed instead, of having the 
Sing to us. Muse, who sang brave deeds at Troy; coaches select the men, as they did la.st year, be­
Sing in heroic verse the warriors bold. cause it was thought that the refereesi being 
Who fast end runs and the forward pass employ, in the thick of the games, could get a closer line 
Striving to triumph for the Blue and Gold. • • on.the performers than the coaches. The only 
Tell us with pomp how Dorais' accurate .toe' rule guiding their selection was that no man
Dismayed the Army and brought Penn State woe. should be put in a position that he had not 
I've just had a line from-the poetic Muse 
, played regularly during the interhall season. 
With. many fond thanks for the generous invite,­

While this.is hard on such men as Thorpe, star 
But saying: " I fear that it is of no use; " ' -, . 
quarterback for the Freshmen, Capt. Riedman 
Your gridiron 'Champs' are entirely too good. 

of Brownson and others, still it is only fair to 
With due credit to them I never could write. 
the men: who worked at one place throughout Besides I belong to the scribes' brotherhood. 
the. contests. For my dope on football, I'd be banished, by all. 
Badjan, at left end, is undoubtedly the best 

In tlie East by Walt Camp; in. the AVest, Eckersall.'' 
to be. found for that position. A hard, smashin,g 
W. L. C. 

tackier", a fast man down the field under punts, 
«-»-» The Interhall Season, 1913. and full}'' able to carry the ball when occasion 
required, Harry put up a "great game- King 
J. CLOVIS SMITH, 15. possessed an equalh' good claim to the other 
, wing. His tall, powerful build enabled him to break through the interference and get the 
Brownson, o; Corby, o; vSorin, 12;' Corby, 7 runner "ivith regularity. His special depart­
Sorin, 15; Brownson, 9; Walsh, 31; Brownson 6 ment was receiving forward passes, and in this 
Corby, 7; Walsh, 7; Walsh, 26; Sorin," 1-4 "way he" gained many yards for Corbj''. Mc-
WTien Walsh and Sorin staged the last act Queeney and Morales have been given the end in the interhall football drama of 1913, -the positions on the second team. 

curtain rang down on one of the most successful -At fight tackle.. Bachman, the 200-pound seasons of recent years. The playing of the Englewood High star, .was without a peer. On Various teams was characterized iu general by the.vdefense," he stopped all the plays directed the same fast, snappy, clever work that won at his side of the line, and on the offense was fame" for their big brother, the Varsity. It is able to,make good holes jn his opponents' line.. 
no exaggeration to say that any of the interhall In ^ O'Donnell" of Sorin he had a fit mate. • 
aggregations could defeat a good many college .Built for the position he plaA^ed a powerful teams—in fact, they did it during the season. " 
aggressive game. He was closely rivalled b\' The new rules enacted this year, making 
"Riedman of Brownson and Carroll of Walsh, freshmen ineligible for the Varsity, but permit­
both, of whom were able to hold their own ting them to play interhall, greath'-. strengthened 
throughout the season. the latter. Another feature of this year's play, 
, ] Odam, playing right guard on the Champions, 
that.added greatly to the total success, was the made a splendid showing. Although a new man, fact that the hall teams were closely matched, he developed so rapidly under the coaching of which will contribute much to next year's Varsity. ­
" Deac" Jones that he became one of the best AI.IV-INTERHALL . SELECTIONS.. 
defensive players'in the league. At the other 
FIRST TEAM POSITION - SECOND TEAM. guard position. Holmes had a little the edge­Baujan;-Walsh , Left end ' . Morales," Brownson' 
ph iJie .rest* although • j\'Iiller and Playes were -j 
Bachman, Corby Left tackle '• y Carroll,-Walsh ;­_cldse seconds! . ;.:,_j.. V: .­
Holmes, Brojvnson Left" guard" --=' Miller,"^ Brownsoc"­;Meehan, Brownson , - Centre . ' ."'.' Daley,.. Corby - 'At centre there were three men to pick.from/ ^ -Odam, Walsh Right guard y . ;- Hayes;. Walsh-all of/"nearly the.rsanie calibre.; Meeharirjof;" -.Oj-Donnell, SorinT .. Right-tackle^ Eriedtri^atf.jBrownson,; -;Brp\\nison,'VDaley.of Corby,>an'd Shaughness^'^r 
King, Corliy " Right',end -'-McQueeiiey, Walsh"­
.of-Walsh,'form a-trip, any one of whom ,would ;' 
Wright,, Walsh Quarterback. - Hynes, Sorin 
not be out of place on.the-first tcarh. The 
Matthews, Walsh ' Right halfback Kinsella,'. Corby 
- position-has-been-given" to -Meehan, however^' 
Cofall, .vSpriri "" 7-'= "Left "halfback'" ~Kowalski,*"Wa"ls"h;­.Grady, Walsh " ' - Fullback •'• ~ "-'•-- Ni'gro, CloriJyC-.'bn-aecq.uat: qf^his good "defensive work, and es- :,: 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
to 
o 
I—I 
a 
t-r 
Pi 

pecially his success at breaking up plays through 
the line. Shaughnessy and Daley were just 
as good on the offense. 
The quarterback position presented the hard­est nut there was to crack. Wright and Hynes stand out as two splendid generals, equally adept in advancing the ball and equally clever with the forward pass." What slight superiority there is belongs to Wright for the steady, even way in which'he ran his team, and his knack of getting plays off fast. But when it came to catching the opponents off guard, Hynes was a wonder. Time and again, he tricked Walsh and Corby with some unexpected play. Wright is perhaps better in giving the runner inter­ference. 

Next to quarter, the fullback was" the hardest man there was to pick. Grady, Nigro and Finegan were almost equal claimants for the honor, but the place has been awarded to the former for his powerful line-plunging ability. In Nigro, Corby has a man who knew how to hit the line low and hard, and could pla}'-a strong game on the defense. 
Cofall and Matthews were the unanimous choice for the halfbacks, and further than that, they \yere the season's individual stars. No two men could present a greater contrast, and yet both were alike in that they possessed that rare" attribute, football brains, and an instinct to diagnose a play. Cofall's playing was all th ^ -kept Sorin in the race, and when on the defensive, nothing can be said in his faA^or that would be an exaggeration. Very fast, and a sure tackier, he never failed to smash any inter­ference and get his man. On offense his speed enabled him to circle the.ends for Ion?: trains: and his drives made his line-plunging equall}"­spectacular. 
To look at Matthews, one would never see in him a star of the first magnitude. He weighs 125 pounds, is ver\' slender in build. An ob­server would sooner pick Eichenlaub as a ping pong champion, than mark "Matty".for the fastest, cleverest, slipperiest player in in­terhall. His open-field running, especiall}' on returning punts, was the treat of the season. We would not hesitate to match Matthews and Cofall against most college halfbacks. 
Kowalski and Elinsella were both far above the ordinan,' in ability and are deprived of places only because of the very exceptional pair they were matched against. 
=i=*^ 

The following selection is made from the second preparatory'' teams. The first prepara­tory'' team is chosen entire for first place. 
ALL-STAR PREP SELECTION. 
BY WILLIE CASE. 
FIRST TE.A.M POSITION SECOND TEAM 

R. Brown, Walsh R. E. A. Brown, Walsh Mcllwee Brownson L. T. Brannon, Carroll Robinson, Walsh R. G. Boylan, Brownson Blackman, Carroll C. Berchem, Walsh Susen, Carroll L. G. Stonehill, Carroll Hubbell, Walsh R. T. Casey, Walsh McCarren, Carroll L. E-Ffrench, Brownson Armstrong, Walsh Q. B. Lockard, Brownson Barry, Carroll L. PI. • Hughes, Walsh O'Brien. Carroll R. H. O'Shea, Brownson Osterley, Carroll F. B. Taft, Brownson 
A Football Medley. 
FRANK HOG AN, 14. 
Cap. Rockne came down like a wolf on the fold, Then came the brave Army with inflated chest And his cohorts were wearing the blue and the gold, To take down the pride of the "audacious" West: O their unflinching grit struck such fear in the foes. "We care not for 'Eich' nor care we for 'Plisk,' South Dakota got dizzy and turned up her toes. We don't even think we are taking a risk." 
Then "Dory" put over a long forward pass. While the big Army line lay asleep in the grass. There was racing and chasing to break up the stride" But the brave Soldiers wavered, rolled over, and died. 
O the "rep "  of Penn State is now covered with dust.  Time  was  when the Lone Star had  never  a  care.  
And their record is strewn  on  the sands.  And defeats  for Penn State  were  but  few:  
And the "Cow-Punchers'" irons are  coated with rust.  But  now  they  are  certain the way players  fare  
gince they failed  to  deliver the brands.  When they meet with the Gold and the Blue.  

376 
Conclusive. 
Mr. Camp—^Yes, I maintain that Eastern teams-arp far superior to Western elevens, principal^ on account of Eastern methods. 
Western Coach—But, Mr. Camp, Notre Dame 

• defeated the Arm}'-and buried her under a larger score than Yale has been able to make against West Point in the six previous years, and the result was due altogether to the Western 
.—-method. Mr. C—But didn't the Army beat the Na\^? 
W. C.—^Yes, of course, and that proves Notre Dame is far superior to the Na^^ as well as the Arm}''. 

Mr. C.—^Not at all. It simpl}'' proves the __ Army was holding back for the Na\'3^ Notre, Dame was simply practice for her. 
W. C—Surely, Mr. Camp, you count scores in the East, don't you? Army beat Colgate; Notre Dame beat Army, and Colgate beat Yale bad—which proves— 
Mr. C.—^Siinply that Colgate was lucky. "\5^nien you remember that Harvard couldn't make a touchdown against Yale, you have to" admit Colgate was luck}';. . 

W. C.T—Was the West liicky in all the games played with Eastern Colleges? Four times,they played and four times they went away victorious which gives them an average of looo while you have simply ooo for an average. " 
Mr. C—-You . can't measure football ability 

^with a rule. .'You have to stand back and look at the teams, with a cool unprejudiced mind. A man who is everlastingly looking at scores becomes coiifused. ^It's the ability of. players and teams one must take into consideration. The East has aimed at developing scoring machines—perfect scoring machines. 
W: 6".—Ajid as a result of these perfectly developed scoring machines neither Har^'^ard , -nor,Yale"was able; to make a tpuchdpwn when 
„ they played .Neither, Princeton nor Harvard was able tomake a touchdown in their'game; andi neither ,Yale' nor Princetonv was able to ' 
:: 4.-mkke altouchdowh. .Is that the idea? : ;; -MrX Ci^Siihply adverse! conditions in thpsei ; : Igames.. -Adverse -conditions; ;;:,;:•-j -. ' ­'/>r-^W:C>-^^^^ the fact;thkt N/ D.-rolled up. a 
. Ikrger scofe.on;Axmydn bnergain^ .'^ ' i done iit-six^ games Jproves cohclusiyely that, the '^ i: .iWest.knpws^;iiqthlng faboutv-scqrihgfm^ ; ;^ A :rJ? MrT= ;G!.^See1he^^^ hian,":dpn'l be.-^ii­
diculous. If you have such fine teams in the West why doh't more of your'me'h^ get on my ail-American? Why is it that only one man from the West is chosen while as many as eight Yale men"have been picked? . , • 
W. C.-^Now, Mr. Camp, you've got me. That argument is conclusive. If you used it at first we would have had no squabble. It overthrows-scores, and games, and coaches, and methods. Now I, see thkt the East must be far superior to the West even /if it isn't. You're like the Eastern teams. You always hold your strongest, argument till after the game. 
^ w ^ 
The Immortals. . 
r 
Q. E. D—American Champions. CAUSK. • Dor A is Ro C kne M ills Eic H onlaub Ke E fe .-LA rkin Gushu R St Berg M an F I tzgerald . P liska Coa C hes ^ -F I negan L A throp Co O k. Jo N es / Fee N ey' 
S criibs EFFECT. • 

Ro C kne Gush U rst ' D 0 rais -Ki N g Eiche N laiib D uggan 
F inegan Now, E res Jon E s • Pli S ka Lath R op _ \:/ M I Us 
,Ke E. fe . ~ Elwa R. d Fee N ey LA rkin Cook B ergman Fitzg E.rald / Kel L eher --'.-. , 'j • . Vo E Ikers 
--., -. ,'•_. '-•'• •; 

. . —: J S crubs Proving that -things equal to the .same thing are equal -to each . other. :' • ,•/•-' , . JIM SEIVINS.. ­
..'Stimulatmg fWater. 
-Who. eyer heard ;ofc,takiIlg^ water V Wayjoff tolafpotbaiirgame? ./,'-. ' Biit; Harper:; said \they; really ^ought'er . Cause; Texas {water's-not:the fsarii^; ' 
Thej*^ putithejwater:in:a barrel;/-.^^-" .. . -It oncei w¥slfull-of'"wine,-"' ^-:;.' -; ^And\.eyery|tirneathe\:!to6k;a'.drink -.. 

. ;; :; piey. ;went :right;^t^^^ theV line. .; 
f ,' f^ • 
•(•^••.^^ii>^'-^?h:B

mummmmmmmim ^'Myr-^^MJA^I'"^
^Bi^ilK^:,^ 




THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
377 
. Dope It Out for Yourself. 

Notre Dame, 20; South Dakota, 7; 
South Dakota, o; Minnesota, lo;' Minnesota, 13; Nebraska, 7; Minnesota, 7; . Chicago, 13; 
, South Dakota, 7; " Michigan Aggies, 19; 
Michigan Aggies, 12; Michigan, 7; Michigan, 33;" Vanderbilt, 2;. Michigan, 17; ' Gornell, o; Michigan, 13; Pennsylvania, o; 
Michigan Aggies, 12; Wisconsin', 7; Wisconsin, 7; Purdue, 7; Wisconsin, 12; Ohio State, o; 

Notre Dame, 35; Army, 13; 
' Army, 34; vStevens Institute, o; Army, 29; Rutgers, o; Army, 7; Colgate, 6; 
Colgate, o; Cornell, o; Cornell, o; Carlisle, 7; Cornell, 6; Harvard, 23; 
Colgate, 21; Amherst, o; 
Amherst, 7; Dartmouth,- 21; Colgate, 46; Hobart, o; Colgate, 16; Yale, 6; 
Yale, .19; Holy Cross, o; Yale, 20; Layfayette, o; Yale, 37; Lehigh, o'; 
.- Yale, 6; Wash, and Jefferson, o; 

^ _ Wash, and Jeff., 17; Penn State 6; Yale, 17; Brown, o; Yale,'3; Princeton, 3; Princeton, o; Harvard, 3; Yale; 5; Harvard, 15; Harvard, 47; Holy. Cross, 7; > Harvard, 29; , Penn State, o; Harvard, 37; Brown, o; Colgate, 27; Rochester, o; Colgate, 35; Syracuse, .13; Army, 2; Tufts, o; Army, 77; Albright, o; : Arm}'-, 22; _ Na.vy, 9; . Navy, o; Pittsburg, o; -• . Pittsburg, i2 ; Carlisle, 6; Pittsburg 20; Cornell, 7; _ Navy, 23; Georgetown, o; \ Navy,, 39; Lehigh, ,0; Na\'y, 70; Bucknell, 7; ^ Nav}'-, .10; Penn State, p; , ­Notre Dame, 14; Penri State, 7; ; Notre Dame, 30; Texas, 7;. Texasj 13; Sewanee, 7; .; ,". Texas, 13; .Oklahoma, 6'5. ' ' Texas, 42; '.Kansas Aggies. '7. ' 
Press Comments. 

Football men marvelled at the startling-display of., open football made by Notre- Dame against the Army. Bill Roper, former head" coach of Princeton who was one of the ofHcials of the game, said that he had always believed that such-playing was'possible under the new rules, but that he had never seen the forivard-pass developed to such a state, of perfection. 
—New York -Tzmes-. Every Notre Dame Man Spectacular. Dorais Makes Eyes Blink. Zigzag Runner First of His Grade Since Daly. No. Stopping Eichenlaiib. Headlines in NL"Y..5«'n. . The Army folks from General Leonard Wood down to the youngest substitute on the scrubs were shocked at the way the Army team was put to rout—N. Y. Times. Perhaps credit should be given to Western in­fluence for the Army's success against the Navy. Four weeks ago when, the cadets met Notre. Dame they were dazzled and confounded,by the Westerners' open attack and the lesson struck deep—N. Y. Sun. Notre Dame played the fastest brand of football seen in the East in years.—New York Herald. . •, And Notre Dame ypu thoroughly convinced .me you were there. . You whipped each tough opponent with.a bunch of points to spare. And if 'twere up to me to pick the country's all-star team . = I'd have old Gold and Blue for my prevailing color scheme. —W. Lardner, Chicago Tribune. No matter what the historians may say about the days of Greece's glory being forever gone, there is one descendant of the Athenians of" whom his ancestors' might be proud. His name is Dorais and' he. plays in the backfield for Notre Dame. This Famese Her­cules came to life, plaj's marbles with 16-pound shots, wrestles with. everything, including problems -in ' trigonometry; speaks nine languages—many of • them at once, and hoists men weighing anywhere -from. 200-pounds up over his head with one iand. ; *He is a hear of a football player and an expert ait opening eggs at the breakfast table. It is said by a Phila­delphian who has seen him in action that the whole fif­teen eggs do not tire him a particle.—^New York Sun. According to D. Williams the West this year has several teams that are on a par Avith Harvard, Prince-, . ton and Yale and it is the opinion of the Minnesota mentor that.the rest of the eastern elevens would be;^ easy victims if they were to face Chicago, Minnesota; Notre Dame or Michigan.- He further opined that any of the four teams named above would give'the-; West a gridiron distinction if-a game was played with ,: any of the three leading teams of the East. "-; ' Deducting from the statements made by the'Min-/ nesota inventor of football tricks, Chicago,, Notre. Dame and Michigan lead therest of the western teams .,; in present ability, with Minnesota but a short ISagth ^ away.—Chicago jE.Yo/Kjwer. " ' .."'•"*;' VI CREDIT TO NOTRE DAivre.^-:•-->'V::,V\^ Cadets Learii New Tricks froni-Harper^s Ghargesi:5-:f The defeat of the NavyJSaturday-by'the'ArrayJfaa­
-•-->--X..7'..V. 
to 9, was another victory for Avestern football. It was 
one more demonstration of the worth of western 
gridiron methods, besides a clear avovval that one team 
of the West leads at least the Army and Navj- and the 
elevens which these two teams met during the season. 
While the Notre Dame players were gathered in 
their dressing-rooms after their game with West 
Point, in which the Army had been decisively beaten, 
35 to 13, Coach Harper of Notre Dame and Coach 
Lieutenant Dah;^ of \Ve.st Point were closeted and 
discussing the forward pass formations that Notre 
Dame had used to trim the cadets. Harper explained 
Tiow his men were able to complete thirteen out of 
seventeen passes in that game and showed Lieut. Daly 
the simplified method in general use in the central West. 
The fact that the Arm3^ threw off the ancient ideas 
in vogue in the East and learned anew the more worthy 
formations of the West and by so doing beat a team 
that figured on paper at least once again as strong, is 
not the only rebuttal held by the West to prove that 
teams of this section lead the world. There still 
remains the fact that Notre Dame swamped the Army 
with ease when these two teams met. 
Critics profess not to understand hov/ Notre Dame, 
with a smaller enrollment than 75 percent of the schools 
which it wallops athletically, can turn out siich good 
teams. Any one familiar with conditions at Sou*^h 
Bend can explain this. One Saturday this fall no less 
than eight Notre Dame teams had games scheduled. 
A boarding school, every class and every "hall," 
as the various dormitories are called, has its own 
eleven and it is small wonder that out of all this material 
the coaches develop good plaj'^ers. 
Again, Notre Dame is not in the habit of "playing 
up" its ineligibles. Some of the Conference schools 
probably will be greath-^ surprised next fall when 
Charles Bachman, the. former Englewood high school 
star, appears in a Notre Dame uniform. Virtually 
every school in the west and a great many in the east 
were after this man's services, but the arguments of 
his former teammate, Joe Pliska, were too much for 
him to mthstand and he entered the Indiana school. 
Bachman's case merelj'- is cited as an example of the 
manner in which Notre X)ame "covers up" its ineli­
gibles. Probably not one football follower in a hundred 
knew where Bachman was attending school, although 
most of them knew the higher institutions of learning 
have been seeking his athletic talent for two seasons. 
—Sullivan in Chicago Daily News. • 

ALL-AMERICAN SELECTION OF THORPE. O'JBrien Har\-ard Right End Pontius. Michigan " Right Tackle Pehnock Harvard ' Right Guard Eletchem. Yale -, _ . . ,' Centre Browne _ . .Navy Left. Guard Balliti . " Princeton " Left Tackle Avery . . Yale, _ - Left End Dora.is .. , ;Notre.JDame-, Quarterback Craig-. .{Michigan., Left Halfback Guyon , j . Indians •„ , ;, Left Halfback Brickley;. ;. -Harvard/, -: ...... Fullback V; ..Dqrais. of Notre- Dame= is a- manjwho, sizes ;Up to, : the^-qiiarterback situation in,much .better ;shape. than .anv:-.other.^;He;';is-;a:•.star-;of,-the highest^magnitude.­
Excelling in open field play, in running back punts, and 
ill running with the ball from his position, he has 
displayed ability as a general that only few quarters 
have ever equalled. His hurling the pigskin into the 
hands of one of his.ends or backs is a qualitj'' that has 
won his place for him. 
With the above named team and with Dorais to 
general and Guyon and Dorais to do the punting, 
Brickley kicking the drops and Browne the place­
ments, the team would not be wanting in this de­
partment.—TOM THORPE in Albany Times. 
In the western football territory, which includes Ohio State on the east extremity and the University of Nebraska on the-other end, the consensus of opinion is that the section named has developed this fall some of the greatest players it has ever known. vSo many • were the stars that a great variety of selections are being made by various experts. 

An approach to unanimitj'^ is found in the make-up of the backfield. Critics generally award Eichenlaub, the Notre Dame fullback, his position. There is hardly a dissenting voice as to him. Craig of Michigan and Norgen of Chicago were given the halfback places, and though keener rivalry was, felt for the quarterback position, the abilitj'' of Dorais of Notre Dame to run the team and his expertness as a drop-kicker seem to make him the favorite.—Chicago Examiner. 
ALL-WESTERN SELECTION OF WATHEY. Des Jarden Chicago Centre Allmondinger Michigan Guard Keeler Wisconsin Guard Butler Wisconsin Tackle Brown South Dakota Tackle Solon Minnesota End Shaughnessy Minnesota - End Dorais, Notre Dame Quarterback Norgren Chicago • Halfback Craig Michigan Halfback Eichenlaub JSTotre Dame Fullback A comparison could be made between Chicago, Michigan Aggies and Nebraska, as they met a common enemy, andif this comparison should be made many are of the opinion that the laurels must go to Chicago, as the Maroons played the more consistent game and seemed to have a better knowledge of the rules and tricks than the otlier. Giving the Maroons the edge on two of the three remaining teams leaves Notre Dame the only eleven having a right to demand any title higher than Chicago.—rChicago Record-Herald. Reports of results of games in the far east leaves supremacy' v-ery complex in spite of the fact that scribes in the east would distinguish Yale, Harvard, and Princeton as the major body of football, Butwhatever may be said-of them all it must be conceded that Notre Dame w^as represented by one of the most wonderful football teams, as subsequent events have established, . east, and - west. Dorais, Eichenlaub and Rpckne have vbeen the recipients of muQh complimentary,, newspaper notice.. But. while these players .are- unquestionably great men in. their respective positions aiid have "tWrigh be eulogized the fact must not be lost sight of that without assistance frorn their.fellow players" much of tlieir. efforts would be vain.-^South,Bend%Wew5-rtwei.-> :, ' -r -­
mm2 

Still you've got to slip it to the widespread alma­matric enthusiasm of Mr. Charles E. Brickley. In his review of the Army-Navy game he said the Army victory was a "triumph for the Harvard system." Unfortunately we arrived at the Harvard-Princeton and Harvard-Yale games too late to see the crimson machine scoring touchdowns by long forward passes over the goal line. It must have been a thrilling spectacle. Sorry we missed it. 
The facts in the case being that the Army victory was a triumph for the Notre Dame system. A Mr. Dorais showed what a forward pass looked like. And Head Coach Daly was keen enough to absorb the situation immediately.—New York Mail. 
EAST VS WEST. " The East is East, and West is West, 

'And  never  the  twain  shall  meet—"  
When Kipling twanged his w. k.' lyre He overlooked a bet— For often have the sections named On the gory gridiron met.  '  
Three times this year the Wolverine With Eastern foemen fought. Whose vaunted backs and stonewallIn each game went for naught.   line  

And Notre Dame twice left South Bend To conquer seaboard teams— This dope, gleaned from the sporting page. Proves Kipling v/rong, it seems. 

But Rudyard knew whereof he wrote— The East alone will stand «, When Camp selects his all-star team From the squads throughout the land. —Mat Foley in Chicago Inter-Ocean 
Having carefully studied Notre Dame's gridiron and baseball records, the "big Nine" unanimously voted not to admit the Catholics to the Conference. 
—LARDNER in the Chicago Tribune. Notre Dame, too, displaji^ed a machine of speed and power. Coach Harper's eleven ranged victoriously from the Far West to the Army ramparts onthe banks of the Hudson, and tliere administered the most cru.shing defeat West Point has ever known. It had been stated that the open Western style of play would be ineffectual against any standard Eastern .defense. Yet against the Army, which has always held in check any Eastern attack, Notre Dame for­ward passed her way to five touchdowns and ran up 35 points against 13. When it is remembered that Yale has for years considered one touchdown against the Army a good, hard day's work, the magnitude of Notre Dame's achievement can be seen. . . -The open Western attack scored more touchdowns against the West Pointers in one afteirnoon than the 
Yale attack had been able to score in six previous seasons of effort.—E. C. Patterson in Colliers Weekly. WEST'POINT, N. Y., December 5—^At last the secret 
is out. How did the Army beat the Navy? Was it Fielding H. Yost and-his advanced form of open football, or some of.the coaches from other big schools 
in the country? Nix. ; ­Listen, gentle reader, listen. It was Notre Dame and its wonderfully coached formations of attack and 
defense that sent the favorite Navy eleven down be­
fore its musket-carrying opponents from West Point. 
When Messrs. Dorais and Eichenlaub journeyed'to 

the lair of the infant infantry and beat the men of 
Daly, they showed the progress by which the Navy 
could be defeated. Dorais, the star pivot-man of the 
NotreDame crew, disclosed ways of making the forward 
pass that the Army men hadn't realized. The Notre 
Dame team worked formations that they had learned 
from the fertile brain of Coach Jesse Harper that rent 
the Army line and wings. Coach Daly saw, he grabbed 
and conquered.—New York Evening Sun. 
When the Soldiers were beaten by Notre Dame, the Army coaches learned something. They paid close attention to the manner in which the western players executed forward passes, and obtained a good idea of the formations from which the pass was hurled. The team then was pointed for the Navy battle and stress laid upon the execution of forward passes.. —^W'ALTER ECKERSALI, in the Chicago Tribune. 
ALL-WESTERN SELECTION OF GILBERT G. STJLLIVAN'. 
Rockne Notre Dame Left End Butler Wisconsin Left Tackle Harris Chicago Left Guard Des Jarden Chicago Centre Leonardson Michigan "Aggies" Right Guard Pontius Michigan " Right Tackle Solon Minnesota Right End 
•Dorais Notre Dame Quarterback Craig Michigan Left Halfback" Norgren Chicago Right Halfback Eichenlaub Notre Dame Fullback 
Dorais of Notre Dame outshines other western 

quarterbacks as the sun outshines the stars. It is 
doubtful if there is another man in America who could 
be compared with him, for he is easily the best since 
the days of Walter Steffens and Pom Sinnock. 
There is no part of the game in which Dorais did 

not show himself great. Kicking, running, passing and generalship were merely departments of his game and he shone in all of them. It was his stellar work in throwing the forward pass which gave Notre Dame both the West Point and Penn State" games and which, -put the South Bend aggregation on the top of the 
western heap. 
His kicking was far above the average. He can average from forty to fifty yards on his punts and places them as well as any man in the west with the possible exception of Norgren of Chicago. Although he was not called upon for field goals this season he _ is accurate anywhere within the forty-yard line. 
Not only could he carrj'- the ball himself with more than usual skill, but his judgment In selection of plays for his teamma.tes was unexcelled by any quarter in the division. He used his great backfield. with best possible results and Notre Dame was one of the few teams which found ground as easy to gain near opponents' goal as in the centre of the field. 
FiiUback. First place is awarded to Eichenlaub of Notre Dame. The South Bend player is fully the equal of Julian and.Shaughnessy In plunging, and in addition Is a star kicker.ahd as good at the open game^ as he Is in line phmging. Defensively, and offensively." 
Eichenlaub has proved a lower of strength to his team for two years and in that time has been largely re­sponsi1-)le for his school's assuming the r61e_of a championship eleven. 
Knd: Rockne is a trackman when his attention is not occupied by football,' and his speed stood-him in good stead in the gridiron sport. He was fast going down under jjunts and usually made his mates' kicks yield every inch of possible ground. It Avas well-nigh impossible to circle him from an3'^ other formation, and he was one of the few wing men who combined driving power with his ,«^peed Gushufst of Notre Dame was also a good plaj'er—Chicago Daily News. 
Dorais of ISTotre Dame, one of the greatest quarter­backs developed in the history of the game, deserves the call at quarterback, where he shone all season for. the Catholic school. To this fast and clever athlete is due much of the success his team attained against teams of varj'^ing strength. He owes his selection to "no one or two qualities, but to all-around efficienc}' unmatched in the West. 
Dorais is, first of all, a wonderful drop kicker. His goals from the ' field counted heavily in Notre. Dame's total of points, and no team in the country' could have felt safe when his'gifted toe was within striking distance. The same Dorais, moreover, was the leader in advancing the ball, his generalship and speed-gaining ground in gilt-edge style. His cleyer-. 
' ness in. handling the forward pass, was one of his strong points all year. 
Eichenlaub of Notre Dame is given precedence over' the other fullbacks because of his all-around abilities. He secured attention . through'out. the country last j-ear and repeated during the season just closed. His wonderful line plunging is his chief asset. He probably hit the line harder than any player in the section and never failed to gain when called upon. 
He combines a remarkable open field game with his line plunging, the mi.xture giving him a unique position. In addition to these talents, he is a kicker of great merit, and is as good on the defense as on the offense. He hit low and seemed to derive pleasure from pulling several would-be tacklers with him for extra yards. He handled forward passes in glittering fashioii.and sized up plays in masterly style. He is given fullback position.—WALTER ECKERSALL'S "All-Western. 
Rockne, Notre Dame R. E. Huntington, Chicago 
Butler, Wisconsin R. T. Pontius, Michigan 
AUmendinger, Michigan R. G. Gallagher, Missouri . 
Des Jardien, Chicago C Feeney Notre Dame . 
Leonardsoh, M. A. C. L. G. Keeler, Wisconsin 
Halligan, Nebraska L. T; Gifford, M.A; C. 
Solon, .Minnesota L. E. -Kenning, M. A. C. 
Dorais,. Notre Dame , Russell, Chicago..
Q. ?-. Norgren, .Chicago ' R. H. Rutherford, Nebr Craig, Michigan z: H.' • Pliska,' Notre Dame Eichenlaub, NotreJDame F. B.' --Julian,^ M. A. C Capt. Rockne,. who led the'Notre Daine eleven" .through such a successful" season, is placed. at right end.. This plaj'-er"possesses,-kll the qiialificatioris=of .an ideal: end.rush.arid the clevei: mariner in which he 
handled forward passes was one of "the i-easons why his ' .teairi negotiated -thirteen successful passes/ , ' 
The Notre Dame captain was quick to size up situations and directed his men accordinglj'^. Oppos­ing elevens seldom made gains around his end and he never failed to hit the interference on the outside, thus turning the runner to the inside, where he was stopped by either the lineman or the secondary de­fense. Rockne Avas a sure tackier iu the open and never failed to drive the catchers of punts to the inside of the field. He was an ideal leader and his words of encouragement to his teammates never failed to bring forth results. 
Feeney of Notre Dame is the nearest approach to the Midway player [Des Jardien], with Glossqp of Purdue not far behind Feeney. 
Dorais of Notre Dame is selected as quarterback, the best developed in the west since the days of Walter 
•Steffen. Dorais is a great general, a sure catcher of punts, a fast and elusive runner, a great punter and a field goal kicker. His open field runs and general-" ship were important factors in the decisive defeat of the Army. His run from kickoff to touchdown in the Christian Brothers game at St. Louis is only one. of his sensational elTprts. Dorais had the happy facultj'' of finding a weak spot in an opposing eleven and kept sending plays there until the spot was either strengthened or a fresh player .sent into the struggle. 
The Notre Dame player ran his team with greater speed than any other quarter in this section, and if eastern critics care to glance over western players for Ail-American material they should focus their ej'es on this performer for careful study. 
Pliska of Notre Dame was another back who was a tower of strength offensively and defensively. 
Eichenlaub of Notre Dame is placed at fullback because of his great line plunging in the Army game. The soldiers are considered to be the best defensive eleven in the country'-, and the way the Notre Dame player made gains through the soldier forward wall is reason enough for his selection." 
Aside from his line plunging abilities, Eichenlaub was a good end runner and a valuable man in the interference. He was of great value to the team iu backing up the line and his ability to size up an oppos­ing team's play and direct a defense to meet the attacks was a strong feature of his play.—^From the Chicago Examiner. 
THE AIYSTERY. But this is what most puzzles me. Where football gossip flames;— The East gets the Ail-Americans— But the West wins all the games. 

. Col. Edwards is evidently among those who refused to credit the rumor that football is played west of the Alleghanies, even in a. crude, slipshod way. For exartiple, he picks Pritchard and Merrillat, of the Army, for the wonderful way in which they manoeuvred the forward pass. They were both deserving. But h'ow. about" Mr. Dorais and a'Mr. Rockne, of Noti-e Dame, who showed Pritchard arid Merrillat the way, shooting no less tliat fourteen forward passes athwart this astonished pair for a total'of five, touchdowns? • Theydon't; belong,,that's all. They probably never set'foot on eastern "soil-ttritil they began makirig and catching forward passes.all over it a month ago. 
>^Grantland Rice in "New York. Evening Mail. 


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 



Notre Dame Scholastic 
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter Published every Saturday during the School Term at the University of Notre Dame Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid Address: The Editor Notre Dame Scholastic Kotre Dame, Indiana VOL. XLVII. DECEMBER 13, 1913. NO. II. 
Board of Editors. 

WILLIAM M. GALVIN,'14  JOSEPH  M. WALSH,  "'14  
WALTER CLEMENTS, '14  GEORGE  SCHUSTER,  '15  
ARTHUR  J. HAYES,  '15  HUG H  V. LACEY ,  '16  
MAR K  DUNCAN,  ' 16  CLOVI S  SMITH ,  '15  
TIMOTHY  GALVIN,  '16.  

—When the final whistle blew in the Texas game on Thanksgiving day, a fitting close was brought to perhaps the most brilliant and spectacular season Three Cheers for in the football history of The Team. Notre Dame. Finishing without a single defeat one of the hardest schedules a Blue and Gold squad ever encountered, travelling east, west, and south, and always bringing the "bacon" home, the Notre Dame football team surely deserves the title of Champions. While number­ing many individual stars in its line-up the team work of the squad was always above par and the machine like -work of- the line, together with the smashing work of the back field and the ever-ready toe of the fleet and brainy Dorais, afforded a combination unsurpassed by any team in the country. Of course dope is some­tiines deceiving, and a difficult proposition confronts the dopester, who tries to figure out the Western Championship on' comparative scores, but even on paper our husky eleven seems to have the lead on the Michigan "Aggies," Nebraska, and Chicago. When the South Dakota team was in its best running order, our eleven defeated them by a larger score than did M. A. C. after the "Coyotes" were severely crippled. This fact would give us prestige over M. A. C. and the teams.defeated by them—^IVlichigan and Wisconsin.. However, our best claim to the championship, lies in our clean-cut and.decisive victories in every game played. From the opener.with Ohio Northern to the final with Texas our team always won 
by a score large enough to leave no doubt as ­
to which was the better team, and neither the 
Army, Penn State, South Dakota, nor Texas 
may be considered anything like secondary 
teams. It seems impossible Lo get a post season , 
game with any «other undefeated eleven, but 
our triumphs have already been sufficients 
We bid farewell to the season of '13 looking 
forward to other triumphs of the Gold and Blue, ' 
and hoping that the future may hold even 
greater victories than the past has brought! 
—^When one says Southern, the word hos­

pitality follows as inevitably as longhom fol­
lows mention of the v^ 
Southern Hospitality, word Texas; or, as 
we might say, were, 

we not too modest, as victory follows Notre-. 
Dame. But we really didn't know what 
hospitality was until our eleven came home to.; 
tell us of the royal treatment received at the-
hands of the Southerners. The team, on their : ­
way to Austin, saw cultivated fields and busy 
towns, but in all their five hundred mile ride ­
through the Lone Star state they did not 
see a single longhom steer, which gave them 
cause to think that the old order had passed 
away; that Southern hospitahty niight have 
gone the road of the coyote and the cow puncher. 
When they arrived at the capital, however,' 
they found that warm welcomes to strangers ; ^ 
are still in vogue there, and that the people 
of the South have earned their reputation for 
hospitality. Dances, theatre parties, auto­
mobile rides, banquets^-all the pleasures per­
mitted to the boys in training, and soine that: 
are not—were tendered the representatives of 
the Gold and Blue. On the field Texas played r ; 
a hard, clean game and fought every minute; ." 
they put up one of the hardest games our men 
''-\:_-z'-<^. 
met,on the schedule this year, and although they lost by a big margin, they were as solicitous, for our boys' needs after the game as they were before it. Not only the-Texas football squad,, \ not only the university students^ but the entire population of the town made an effort to inake -' the boys of Notre Dame feel. a,t home. They succeeded. St. Edward's College, too, where ^ .­the boys stayed from Monday till Thursday, y_.: 
• turned itself inside .out' to entertain their., . -; big cousins from the North. Texas, ^we ap^^' :1; predate your kindness and we adroire your C;\ fighting- spirit. We would like to renew ovi%y:^. 
.acquaintance. * . -. :r.r,y;r 
-"^-i,-5-i? 
Jones is Captain. 
At the annual banquet of the football squad, held at the Oliver Hotel, Tuesda)^ evening, Keith Jones was elected captain of the 1914 eleven. Jones' wonderful performance at tackle, his hard aggressive pla3-ing throughout this and previous seasons, his popularit}'" with faculty, students and squad, make his selection as captain a most admirable one. No pre­ceding banquet has ever witnessed the close of a more memorable season, no "festive board" has ever drawn together a greater galaxy of football stars. It was certainh?^ a glorious tribute to the men of 1913, that Line Coach Edwards, captain of the wonderful 1909 Western Champions, paid to the assembled veterans when he congratulated Rockne upon ha^dng captained the greatest team the Gold and Blue has ever mustered. 
Seventeen monograms were awarded to as many participants in gridiron strife, and the recipients of the honor had the additional satisfaction of hearing the big golden N. D.'s lauded as symbolic of the greatest factories ever scored b}'^ their Alma Mater. 
It was a great evening for performers and coaches ahke. For the outgoing heroes it terminated careers of unbroken triumph; for those who received their first monogram, and for others who are veterans, it marked another notable milestone in the athletic history of Notre Dame. 

The. men whom Coach Harper rewarded with monograms are Eichenlaub, Jones, Dorais, Rockne, Feeney, Pliska, Gushurst, Finegan, . Bergman, Xarkin, Elward, Duggan, Lathrop, Cook, King, O'Keefe, and Fitzgerald. Cap­tained by the greatest tackle in the West, or as Dunbar said, the "greatest that ever wore a uniform," and numbering so many widely acclaimed performers, next year's eleven bids fair to ecUpse even the great achievements of the season, whose triumphant close has been so recently celebrated. 
Basketball Enters. 

Tonight Capt. Cahill will lead his five against" Xewis Institute in. the curtain-raiser of the 1913-14 'basketball season. Lewis Institute has appeared here in the pre-Christmas game for several years, and although they have jiever before proved dangerous, they; may do 
so this evening owing to the fact that our boys 
have been out in uniforms only a week. 
The material for a good team this season is 
promising. From last year's squad we inherit 
Capt. Cahill and Kenney for the fowrard 
positions, Mills for center, and Nowers and 
Finegan at guard. "Bill" Kelleher is a 
monogram winner from 3'-ear before last who 
was unable to play last 3^ear because of injuries 
sustianed in football, but the old guard is in 
excellent shape now and will prove a most 
valuable addition to the squad. Besides these^ 
Fitzgerald, "Dutch" Bergman, Smith and a 
number of others are going well in practice. 
We shall greatly miss our old star, "Peaches" 
Granfield, but a team composed of such material 
as we have will surety uphold the high standard 
set by previous Gold and Blue fives. 
The schedule for this season has not been 
completed, but it will be one of the hardest 
arranged for our bo3'^s since the Eastern and 
Southern expeditions of the famous '08 team. 
Among the games that have already been se­
cured appear the names of some of the strongest 
fives in the country, including Princeton, 
Cornell, Colgate, and the Michigan "Aggies." 
TRACK SEASON OPENS. 

Now that "football is over, the limelight of college sport must divide itself, giving part of its attention to basketball, the other part to track. Nothing in the line of meets will be staged until the holidays are over, but Coach Harper has his men out daily getting the stiff­ness out of their bones. Capt. Hennehan, Plant, Rockne, and Birder of last 3'-ear's relay team are all on hand and in good shape. 
CORBY, 32; FORT WAYNE FRIARS, O. 

In the annual turkey-day combat at Fort Wayne; the. Braves handed a crushing defeat to their old rivals. Though the latter were much stronger than usual this year, having in their line-up Hutzell, an old Notre Dame man, and Baird, the former Wabash star, they were completely outplayed greatly to the dis­appointment of the 2500 spectators. Kinsella and Kane in the halfbacks, starred for the locals with long end runs, while Bachman, Sharp and O'Donnell, in the line, completely smothered their opponents. The kicking of the former was. by far the best he has displayed this year. "Germany" Schultz, the Wisconsin line coach; refereed the game, and afterward, the victors were the guests at a banquet given by the Friars. ­

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
•3^3 
Turning 'Em Down. 

From the Indianapolis Star. Time—Last Saturday. Place—Room in the Auditorium Hotel, Chicago. Dramatis Personae—Representatives of the various universities in the Western Athletic Conference. 
President—^Having transacted our other business, we will now consider the applications of Marquette, Nebraska, and Notre Dame for admission. 
Illinois Representative—I move we admit Marquette. Voice from the Rear (later identified as from North­western)—Why? ///. Rep.—Why not? They never beat anybody, did they? Northwestern, Ohio State and, Indiana—Then for heaven's sake, let 'em in quick. 
Wisconsin Representative—Well, maybe Marquette didn't win this year—but they,—yon never can tell; they mighti-ge.t Jeneau back there some day. We can't be too careful. I suggest that Marquette be refused admission and that Nebraska be accepted instead. 
Minnesota Representative—I object, and have reason. Wis. Rep.—Only one, a 7 to o reason, I believe. Minn. Rep.—Since you feel that way about it, I 

suggest we request the Michigan ''Aggies" to come in. (Business of glaring at the Badger representative.) 
^Pres.—Gentlemen! Remember-you are gentlemen. Indiana Representative—I understand that Notre Dame also is requesting admission. 
Purdue Representative—^Yes, and I wish to Join my Bloomington brothers in hoping Notre Dame will be admitted. 
Iowa Representative (with an attempt at sarcasm)— So the Hoosier state can win a championship some time, I suppose. 
Tnd, Rep.—Then I presume you object to the Corn Huskers being admitted? , 
Chicago Representative—Reverting back to this Notre Dame matter, I suggest that we do not admit them. 
N. W. Rep.—Oh, so you, too, have observed Notre Dame's record? 
Ohio State Rep.—I know of at least three good reasons aside from Notre Dame's record, for Chicago's refusal to consider that application. 
Chi. Rep.—And, pray, what are they? 
O. S. Rep.—Dorais, Rockne, and Eichenlaub. 

President—Well, gentlemen, it appears to be the sense of the meeting that until these colleges reach our plane— 
Voice from the Rear—In playing strength and purity of requirements? 
President.—^As I was saying, until these colleges get on our plane, we should refuse to admit them and I will instruct the secretary to so inform the press. T will consider a motion to adjourn. Thanks. 
CARLSON IN THE Inter-Ocean. 
sH THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Safety Valve. 
The following all-star team is not meant to expunge, abrogate or annul other selections made by critics, but is simply our honest endeavor after a painstaking search to pick out the notables from the different halls and make one luminous team. 
A. Durbin R. E. . Sorin Robert Pinkerton Cavanaugh R. T. Walsh 
Dyer < . Vincent O'Conner 
N. Ranstead. 

Eugene O'Connell . J. Sholem 
G. Blount Pugnet 
J. McDonnell 
W. Case . 
P. Yerns (Capt.) *0. B., on the 
 R.  G.  Day  Dodger  
 C.  Carroll  
 L. G.  Sorin  
 L. T.  Corby  
 I/. E.  .  Sorin  
 Q. B.  Brownson  
 R. H.  ­  • St.  Edward's  
 L. H.  Walsh  
 F. B.  .  Walsh  
 O. B.*"  St. Joe  
 bench.  

A. Durbin is far superior to any other man for the position of right end. His facility for putting his foot in it, and for bawling up things without the least provocation makes us sure of his football ability. We would never have chosen him for the beginning, but we think he will be good at the end. Besides, he is a good mixer; he told us so himself. And best 

* of all, he is speedj^ as he proved one night between 
•
 Prof. Hines' house and Sorin Hall. Robert Pinkerton Cavanaugh is chosen for right 

•tackle.
 We know of no other man who would look sweeter in a football suit. His long eyebrows, too, have prejudiced us in his favor. 


I^yer on account of his accurate knowledge of the law would be a great help to this.team at right guard. He would guard his team promiscuously from being imposed upon and would be ready to answer all questions the referee might ask. Besides othei: critics have awarded him all-American——^pesti I 
The shape of the uppermost part of Vincent O^ Con­ner when he bends in-ppsition to pass the ball has,; led to our selection of hiin as center. He would 

. confuse all the other teams as they would not know whether he was going or coming. ,: . 
^ Ranstead was chosen as guard "'simph' and solely on account-of his fighting spirit'.- His readiness to , - engage in a fistic battle, and his eagerness for it makes him easily one df.the best men for the team. Eugene O'Connell, the mighty, has- told iis himself , -. that he is far superior to Milroy and Twining in debat-' ing, "and as„ for football, Eichenlaub and Dorais are 
: - :: mere squibs. _ Watch him tackle things this year, 
r , , J: Sholem is indeed head and shoulders above all 
. - ,;\. the. ends'in the school.- His-proficiency at barking up J =;• a^line, and his dogged perseverance has been-a *great; -J- }.: factor;in-determining oiir choice:, :' ..-'ij.t; ;-; .' 
thej"^ have not seen him in action. It is, in fact, very hard to see him in action. Anyone, however, who doubts his ability should go over to St. Edward's hall and ask for him. He is built on the ground and has a tendency to dig even deeper. 
J. McDonnell is our choice as left halfback on account of his superior ways. He impresses one as though he were talking from the top of some high building.. He has a voice like a hatpin and would, we think, be able to pierce any line. 
To W. Case goes the position of fullback. Xt simply 

. goes there of its own accord. We could not Iceep it away. His ability at sharpening lead pencils has been the sole cause of his being chosen. Besides this, how­ever, it may be noted that he is the most ubiquitous man at the University and would we think bob up behind the goal posts at the most unexpected times. 
The team will be generaled by Peter Yerns who will sit on the left side of the players' bench wearing a red and blue stocking, which same he will use in making 
signals to his team. YiEi-DiNG FosT PICKS Player School Yielding Fost Michigan Huerta Alexico Pontius Pilate Judea Sylvia Pankhurst Travelling Venus de Miio Cosmopolite 
September Morn Chicago Art Inst., Yielding Fost Michigan 
 ALT.-AMERICAN. 
. 
 Position 
 Left end  Left tackle  Left guard 
 Centre  Right guard  Right tackle 
 Right end 
Lasca • Down by the Rio Grande Right end 
Gunga Din • Burma Right half back 
Buana Tumba Oyster Bay Left half back 
06m Paul Zud Afrika Fullback. 
We have tried to cover up the fact that this selection 
is composed of dead ones by placing Sylvia Pankhurst 
at ceiitre. But should you discover that the rest ' 

are has-beens, it should not make any difference. This teafn was picked by,me. Therefore it ought to be accepted throughout America, and beyond. What does Eckersall know about football? What do any _of them know about it, except.me? Heretofore the one great objection to all-American, selections has been;^e fact that there has been too.much holding in the liiie. .To prevent fthis, I have selected .Venus de -Milo who lias never been caught holding; Pontius Pilate "and Lasca,' being deid, "need give us.no grave cause for worry, nor September Morn for that matter. Yielding-Fost-promises.not to. hold during a game, but :will .take", his revenge By keeping his .rivals off his all-American team. I am too modest toniention the many reasons why:I-have given Yielding Fost both the end': positions. , I never brag about myself. I've. produced the best -team in the West this year." The Farmers won froiif us;on a fluke.^ Besides, we could'have licked, them-later;in the season^—we im­proved and developed as. the season, progressed. .The 
. > . ; .G: Blount isthe oidy man, so.far as,we know, who:. Aggies couldn'j:^jhaye. improyecl with time because if 
r.f ;; , ^can^sleep in".class:during a heatdd discussion and di-theyj^^cotUdiJvre.wouldn't b^^ of the; West. 
•i;~ -! .: rectly un head, 1T5 haye=tiitteriy>'igno^^^ little) runt of a. school, . ; j; } .-; :i:arid iin6xcitablfe disposition have led to his being, chosen. -{ ;N6tre\:l3ameV''beca^ .beat me four years ago. 5.,,-":;, He can;not punt,;ha.s neverjcaughtla footballmihiis Besides; I li.ateJiJiat;red-h£a^.;Harpr M they pro­;;>;,: fvijiijfe and knows nothing about signals, biit he is other-duced in^igog.; ;,I give'as.iiiiy;re% the fact that they '}y"'tyns&'a:z !l I rv'i,-;t:=«. X •. ., --;,: .'do not conform to stahiiard football playing regulations. ^,-it .'l." ::/Pugnet ,Vi The^fact. that this Is^^^ difference. 
m.'^'^-^^-iy^iy-^.Ci^^^:

•mmmi. 
iiiiiii 




^•o-^ '3—a— 
Ch 

Ootrc Dame Scholastic 
ntr.ce-9vA5i-5cmpee-vicivyiews-• vive g\jAS\'cRAS-MOieiTvievs-
VOL. XLVIII . NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, CHRISTMAS, 1914. No.. 1.1­
v»­

The Shepherds' Peace. 
BY WALTER L. CLEMENTS. 
Dramatis Personae. 
DANIEL, a shepherd. BENJAMIN, his friend and OTHER SHEPHERDS SCENE I.—.4 hill overlooking stable of Bethlehem. Shepherds guarding flocks. Daniel and Benjamin conversing apart. 
vej, ENJAMIN. I'd make her mine in wedlock's sacred vow, 'ji^ ^ 'Tis past the second watch, the flocks are calm^ Butknow not how to save for futtire times. 
And such a won'rous night I have not seen. I Avould not have the woman whom I love Yonder celestial orbs like lamps of Angels Endure the stings of penury for me. Now guide with love the darkened ways of men. BEN. 
DANIEL. • " . "Why not begin to save your earnings now? Yes,, heaven bends down nearer this old -\vorld And if she loves you much, she'll waittlie time. To place upon her brow a kiss of peace. DAN. Ah, yes, but pressed by many suitors' vows,. 
BEN. Her father, says that I must take her soon 
Behold our village 'mong the ancient hills Or else relinquish every hope of love. .' 

Like a bright ruby set in emerald. 

In truth I know not what a man should do— I wonder if the crowd that throng our inns But look—what wondrous light illumes the sky! 
,Feel such security of mind as we? 

DAN. BEN. • A tavern keeper told me yesterday Tell us, 3'e watchmen of the night, what can That Caesar is at peace with all the world. this mean? 
..SHEPHERS ALL^^ 
BEN. Behold a miracle is wrought. . •
'Tis strange, for seldom does the might of Rome Shut up the temple of her two-faced god. BEN. ' -' But peace or war, for my part I've such joy Not since the time when God led forth His tribes Of heart that I could pipe ray shepherd's lute Through burning deserts to the Promised Land, Among the tumbling towers of Jericho. By day and night alterna'tely a'cloud 
DAN. ' \ And fiery pillar guiding them thi-ough gloom. And yet, one care weighs heavy on my heart. Has such a wonder in the sky appeared. -. And this it is that clouds my quiet watcH. . 
SHEP.HERDS. , , , -. : . I know you'll think it ill that this affair 
Notice it hovers near the ancient cave. .^^.. * Should e'er intrude upon my peacefuliiess; 
Let's kneel and pray the Lord what this thing means.; 
' 'But I shall tell you as you are my friend 
{Voices singing.) ' 

Trusted and tried in keeping secrets close. Down in the village dwells'aiioble maid. Shepherds, all your fears allay, ­
Companion to my early childhood days. . Christ, the Savior comes to'-dayr­; The comradeship that I partook with her _ Go, pay homage to the King Unconsciously as riper years increased Ye that-can a-clean heart bring.^ Grew to a not-to'-be-foi-gotten love. Tell Him' ail your cares and troubles; > \, But I've been profligate with what 1 earned They shall facie like empt}'-bubbles: . :.­
>-Vr=^^^^, 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
He has come your souls to win As we have had the grace to see to-night. 
From the deadly thrall of sin. DAN. 
Haste and join the Choirs that sing The old man gazed in silent wonderment 
Endless praises to the King. And smiled when-we paid homage to the Babe. 
' SHEPHERDS. 
BEN. 
A King they saj' has come to us. Who can it be? Prophets of old have spoken of the Messiah, Whom men shall reverence as more than nian. :
DAN. The time is ripe. The world is waiting for Him. 
They bade us go and Avonship Him. Though we are shepherds ignorant and poor 
Let us obe3'^. We keep a secret nations seek to know. 
SHEPHERD. 
By such a radiant throng DAN. 
Caesar himself could not be heralded. Methinks I'm not so stupid as I was BEN. Not many hours ago when I told you 
They said we'd find our King in yonder cave Of poverty that kept me from my love. Beneath the star that brightens all the sky. Since then I've seen a King bedded in straw. .The old man had no place to take the two 
DAN. Save a dark stall made for dumb animals. 
Then let us to our royal master hie. 

Yet supernatural, fires illume the place. 
(Exeunt Shepherds.) 

Our sheep were more provided for than they. SCENE II. And yet such joy I've' never seen before. Sa7ne as Scene I. Near morning. The problem I proposed is solved for me. BEN. I'll dare to do and trust in Providence. 
I thought that we should see a might king BEN. ­
Wearing a jeweled crown and clothed in garments Already has the Saviour's reign begun 
•More regal than the robes of Solomon, Within our hearts where v-rongs are set aright. A look of awe upon his kingly front, 
{The datvn approaches.) 
A golden scepter in his royal hands, 

DAN. A voice of thunder made to give command; 
See how a beauteous blush steals o'er the east. And yet that Babe that slumbered in the crib 
Because the eager sun approaches nigh. Has more impressed me than a thousand kings. 
BEN. • • ­
SHEPHERD. Was ever mortal blessed with such a morn Since man was born of woamn never has That dawns to greet the Promised One earth born? There been such ectasy of mother love {Curtain.) 
First Christmas in America. 
BY B. V. 
IN the year 1492, the first celebration of these kindnesses' toward the great discoverer Christmas on the Western Hemisphere and his followers, the Indian chief caused a took place: Cliristopher Columbus and great banquet to be held on Christmas Day his crew were about to land on the shores and to it he cordially invited the famous 
;of :Haiti when one: of theiri ships, the Santa navigator and his brave sailors. To honor Maria, iran upon a rock and was wrecked. his guests still more, the chief made his prin­The sailors would certainly have perished had cipal warriors act as'servants on the occasion. it not been for the kindness of the natives of 
.the island. They sent out rude boats to rescue 


A Contrast. 

Coluinbus and his men, and were successful in bringing all of them safely to Jand. This hap­Herod was clothedJn purple.and in gold pened on Christmas Bve. The Indians pitied Who had usurped the_ Saviour's shining throne, the unfcyrtunatC: Spaniards. and lodged them in Jesus, the lawful heir, in a dim cave. th ^ iuts ;;for :the night; Not satisfied with Wasleft to reign unhonored and alone. 

TEE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTRC 
195 
The Second Coming. 
A s Mary laid her Child In the cold winter wild 
- Upon the straw; All heaven seemed to glow And angels bending low 
Adored in awe. . 
The shepherds left their herds. Beckoned by angels' words: 
Him they adored. Out of their simple souls Like spotless mystic bowls 
Their love was poured. 
And so to-day the priest On the sweet Saviour's feast 
Gives us for food: The Infant that was born On that first Christmas morn— 
His flesh and blood. 
And angels softly sing. Afar the echoes ring. How sweet the voice! ' Christ lives in every heart. Let Sorrow swift depart. Come and rejoice." P. D. n. 
^«*^ ; 
Ted of'* Barker's Flats. 
BY MARK I,. DUNCAN. 
*E'VE simply got. to paise that other twenty-five thousand," de­clared one of the fellows. 

"And we can't waste a minute," exclaimed .the other. "Why, Armstrong will go mad if we don't get it. But Burke was a brick to give you twenty-five thousand dollars!" 
The two young men boarded a passing car. They represented a money-hunting crew and knew that the money must be secured.in some unusual. manner of begging. Their philan­thropy was centred upon a somewhat unknown charity—efficient but small. The Armstrong Society had sprung up from the friendly interest a certain George Armstrong had manifested in a few boys. In the course, of development of this friendly interest he encouraged them to help needy boys, and the plan had so prospered that ultimately a wider range of work devolved upon the society, and its mission became recognized in the district where its efforts had chiefly been centred.. Robert Burke was: 
the first influential factor to notice its -^orth, 
and he donated twenty-five thousand dollars 
on the condition that the society raise the 
other twenty-five thousand by Christmas day, 
all the funds to be expended upon the erection., 
of a building which would facilitate the carrying 
on of this social service. 
Four thousand dollars remained to be raised. The boys had worked valiantly for the money, but had found it harder to raise than they had anticipated. Everybody seemed to have a" place for his extra coins, and although all sympathized in the work of the society, the contributions were of small proportions. Even the spirit of Christmas did not seem to have the effect that the name betokens. Peace and good-will toward men were limited by reason of business negotiations. Christmas is most significant of the true spirit of giving, but somehow the boys who were boosting for -the Armstrong Society found it hard to get the funds. They did not give up. It was the after­noon of the day before Christmas. 
Barker's Flats occupied a corner lot -in Chicago's tenement district. Barker had had no idea of planning them to be convenient for his tenants; systems of" model flat-building did not bother him in the least. AH he wanted was to get as many separate apartments into the big structure as was possible, and he had succeeded in using ever\^ available square foot of space. The tenants were people who , got their pleasures from standing on a high .. back porch decorated with a clothes-line hting with muddy garments, and screeching to the neighbor of a similar back porch. The screech ; was necessary because of the horrible racket of the elevated train which came so close to .. these air-porches as to cause the new ten­ant to fear for his life every time a, strain approached. '-.•:•"' 
Mrs. Hardy and her son, Ted, lived in No. 13, Barker's Flats. She had the muddy washirij^ and the high-pitched voice .characteristic;of •_,. these modern: cave dwellers. .This was SatT:;;;­urday and the day before Christmas. ^The ; -V; name meant little to her now, and the spirit,_'{ j / less. Ted Hardy was twelve years old, but he. ; : had spent most of his crippled life in an invalid's ^f-.^.^ chair. Had it not been for his interest in dfawing^^;;; :• he might have been the most despondent ^^;:;;^ creature in Barker's Flats. But he drew pictures .5:4^ 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC-
of ever3'lhing and ever3'•bod3^ He bordered 
all the stray newspapers and magazines, and 
drew upon the backs of the cracked plates 
and saucers. His talent had suddenl}^ budded 
forth from its latency, but had little chance 
of. developing amidst such surroundings. 
Through one of: the Armstrong Societ)'", 
whose members ferreted out all sorts of cases, 
Ted had. been discovered. He was an inter­
esting chap, despite the fact that most of his 
life had been spent in the Flats. The Arm­
strong Societ3'- interested him. He Avas anxious 
to know what the world was doing, and graduall)'' 
came.to realize that his own world was A'-er}'" 
small. He entered into the societys' campaign 
for money as man}'^ a livelier bo}'" would not 
have done. It meant so much to him. Upon 
a better grade of drawing paper which the 
Armstrong representatives gave him he drew 
little sketches of the simple scenes that he 
could see from liis window in the kitchen as 
he sat all da}'^ in his chair—simple scenes because 
of their familiarity to him, but 5'^et made grand 
from the ver}"- thought that the}'- were to be 
given to the Societ}'- as a means of raising 
funds for the -new building. For what had not 
the boys promised him if they got their building? 
A Merry Christmas it would be if they raised 
the funds. He would be taken to their home 
and treated by specialists. And what was more 
important, he would be given art lessons— 
it would not cost him or his mother a penn}'-. 
And then he could .become a famous artist— 
a cartoonist, .^perhaps, on one of the great 
city newspapers. 
His Christmas spirit was bigger and nobler 
than that of the thousands who spend their 
money lavishly upon unappreciated gifts. His 
was the true Christmas spirit hmited as was his " 
knowledge of the real importance of the day. 
With pencil in hand and an unfinished drawing 
on his lap he fell into, a reverie despite 
the awful distraction, outside. His thoughts 
wandered dreamily to the Armstrong Society— 
to Jim and Fred who had proriiised to come to 
see him Christmas Eve—^to the-^-but an awful japping at the. door, dispelled his reverie. "Come in," piped Ted.. .. ­,£ The dobr:squeaked and opened.; ,"Well, where's ;your mother?" thundered 
the awful ^oice; of the big man who entered. jf/'Siie's; dowhjtb ^ e grocery,; Mr. ;Barker," replied l Ted, half-frightened,.; for he.; knew what? {Barker's: visit:! meant, f He: always - sent his agent unless the rent was much past due. Ted feared what the consequences might be. He had a mental image ©f himself and his mother spending their Christmas day in the streets, cast out of Barker's Flats. 

"Well, it's time she was here, bawled Barker, and sat down heavily in a chair which almost gave way under his tremendous weight. Both remained silent for quite a while, the monotony brok&n only by Mr. Barker's hea^'y breathing, for climbing the steps of his Flats .had required much effort. 
"Are you going to have a nice Christmas?" ventured Ted. "Me? A nice Christmas? What do I want with a nice Christmas?" shouted Barker. 
Ted was cowed and resolved to keep quiet unless addressed by the landlord, who was beginning to stamp his feet in impatience. Suddenly he glanced at Ted's lap. 
"What's that?" he said, pointing to the pencil drawing which Ted had been working on before Barker's arrival. 
"Just a picture," answered Ted 

-"Let me see it," demanded Barker. "Oh," he added getting up, "I forgot you couldn't bring it to me." 
He looked at it closel}'^. 
" H'm! who did this?-''• - he^ asked. 
"I did," replied Ted. 
"You?" 
"Yes, sir." 
"Who taught you to draw?" 
"I just know how." . , 
"Never had any lessons?" '. ; 
"No; sir." . . • . . • :' 
"What do you do with your drawings?" 
"I give them to Jim and Fred of the Arm­

strong Society." "What kind of a society is.that? I never heard of it." 
Barker had struck the key which. sounded Ted's volubility. His fear vanished and he burst forth into explanation. 
"O Mr. Barker,'haven't you ever heard of the Armstrong Society ? I thought everybody knew about- it.; It's; the most wonderful, thing in the world. ^ They: help boys, who can't help themselves. They buy clothes for boys who haven't any - money. They go: to their houses at night and give-them lessons about all sorts of things. O. Mr.: Barker, they've been so good to me ;and hkve promised to give. me. lessons in drawing if they: can raise-their fund." : 
"What fund?" asked Barker, less gruffly 

and  somewhat  interested  
" 0  r forgot  you didn't know ab out it.  The  
Society  has  needed  .a  home  so  badly  and  

didn't have the money to get one. But a rich man gave- them twenty-five thousand dollars if they could raise the same amount by tomor­row—Christmas day. O you don't knoAv what all they do foir boys!" 
There was a knock at the door. It was Jim and Fred, the same two boys who had boarded "the car down town. 
"Hello, Ted," they cried out. 
".O, hello boys. I knew you'd come; have 5'^ou got all the fund?',' 
"No, Ted, we haven't," said Fred, "but we cam^e to see ^''ou an^^vay for we had promised you we would come." . 
"How much do you lack?" queried Ted. "About four thousand dollars," answered Jim. 
Ted's happy expression disappeared. That much money-was a big fortune to him, and. unless they raised it, his hopes were blasted. 
"But I've almost got another picture done,'.' added Ted. "I can finish it for you in just a minute." 
Mr. Barker hadn't been noticed. He moved on his chair uneasily. He was not in the habit of-being so completely ignored. 
* "Boys, this is Mr. Barker," said Ted "I've just been telling him about the society and the home and all. He didn't know anything about it." . "It's-a big proposition you're tackling, young men," said Barker. 
Ted had never seen him so civil. 

"Yes, but it's worth all the work we put into -it," answered Fred, "for we're doing big things.^ But we need the home badly and hope to have it from .this campaign. It will be a Christmas gift the whole year round to everybody we can help." 
Barker imbuttoned his overcoat, put on his spectacles, and went over to the table. He kept his back to the boys and then began bundling himself up to go outside. As he started toward the door he handed Fred a check. It called for enough money to more 

' than cover the deficit for the fund. 
"Good luck to you, boys," shouted Barker, "you've giyen ine^ my first real Christmas!" He slammed the door before the boys could say a word. 
The King. 
P^ TRFvMBLING Babe upona bed of straw-Robed in the purple splendor of the night. Sweet strains of heavenly music e'er the dawn 
Wafted by moonlight angels in their flight, A virgin brow that o'er His cradle shone. Two virgin arms that made His kingly throne. 
Christmas in the Poets. 
BY SPEER STRAHAISr.­

.^.p^H E old, old story of Christmastide is. ever changing and ever new. Year after year there is' the same vision of angels, the same shepherds kneehng 
at the Grib, the same poor dumb. animals that were crowded out in the cold to give God room, the beauty hidden below all the poverty, and Heaven's simplicity in performing great things. And yet again and again the mystery seems shot with a* new fire, new beauties are seen at every turning, new love and new humiliations in every detail. It must be this eternal newness ard beauty of the Nativity that has held so great an attraction for the poets. Let us glance at a few of these. Christmas poems. 
Even as early as the thirteenth century in England, the religious feelings of the people sought expression in songs that, because' of their joyoiisness, were known as carols.. In the centuries gone by most of these have been lost, but how could this one but live? 
As I rode out this endenes uight Of three jolly shepherds I saw a sight . And all about their fold a star shone bright 
They sang terli terlow So merryly the shepherds their p:pes can blow. 
Down from heaven, from heaven so high . , Of angels there came a great companye With mirth and joy and great solemnitye 

They sang terli terlow So merry^ly the shepherds their pines can blow. Has our own age with all its :treasures. of poetry produced anything more - delicately beautiful? Does not this old carol truly reflect the joyous, light-hearted spirit of Catholic Merrie Englande? •_ '•, 
- In Milton's "Hymn.on the Morningiof the' Nativity" we meet a poem of a highly elevated' and yet tender nature. Simply the.poet begins:=: 
. It was.the winter mild . .;-;. ,5 , While the heaven-born Child. \ • -. All meanly wrapped in the rude manger,lies.,,pf: 

Then the poem courses on:—Nature has hidden her deformities beneath a veil of snow; Peace reigns over all, and despite the coming dawn, 
The stars in deep amaze Stand fixed in steadfast gaze Until the Lord bespake and bid them go. 
The shepherds are startled by the angels' song and proclaim that "did it last" all sin and even hell itself would pass awa}'-. At length haAang announced the downfall of the pagan oracles, and after 
The Virgin blest . Hath laid her Babe to rest, the sun goes down "curtained with cloud}' red," the evening stars appear in the heavens and the hymn draws to a close. Among the religious poets, Crashaw has also given us a number of rare lines in -his "Song of the Shepherds." Gloomy night embraced the place Where the noble Infant lay. The Babe looked up and showed His face— 
In spite of darkness, it was day. It was Thy day. Sweet! and did rise Not,from the East but from Thine eyes. 
Or this one that Francis Thompson so loved: I saw the curled drops, soft and low Gome lowering o'er the place's head, Offering their whitest sheets of snow To furnish the fair Infant's bed. 
Robert Southwell's "Burning Babe" is like­wise a lyric of quaint beauty and deep, spiritual insight. On a frosty winter night the poet stands shivering in the snow when a vision-is seen of the Babe of Bethlehem all enveloped in fire.. The Infant explains that men's cold­ness of heart is the fuel for the flame that thus burns Him day and night; the fire is His love, and His "faultless breast the fur­nace." With a delica:te touch of mysticism the Babe is represented as saying, 
"As now on fire I am . To work them to their good. So will I melt into a bath 
To wash t'hem in Mj' blood." Then the apparition fades, and the piece ends as the poet 
' - "calls into his mind That it is Christmas day." In our own times the wealth of real Christmas ptoetfy hias rather^^been multiplied than lessened. /Among many, Fa.ther Tabb, Alice Meynell, and ! W.L M. Letts, all have produced - work thatimust be echoed agaiii" and; again in everv heart that loves Bethlehem. 

Father Tabb's genius for condensation is peculiarly adapted to such a subject. A number of his Christmas poems are exquisitely beautiful and well deserve quotation, but the following ones are far too insistent to be dis­regarded. The first,, "The Christ Child to the Christmas Lamb," is in its simplicity akin to the Infant and the lamb itself. 
•0 Little Lamb, Behold I am 
So weak and small That even Thou Canst pity now 

The God of all. The other is called "Out of Bounds" and would appeal to any person whether he were six or sixt}^. A little Boy of heavenlj' birth. But far from home to-day Comes down to find His ball, the Earth, That sin has cast away. O comrades, let us one and all Join in and get Him back His ball. On turning to the poetry of Alice Meynell we find a real strength and refined delicac}''. The work, happily, unlike that of many women writers, is singularly free from imperfection of form and obscurity of thought. Coventry Patmore characterized it as "the marriage of masculine force of insight with feminine grace and tact of expression." These qualities are splendidl}'^ exemplified in "Unto Us a Son is Given." 
Given, not lent. And not v/ithdrawn—once sent— This Infant of mankind, this One, 
'Is still the little welcome Son. 
New every year. New-born and newly dear. He comes with tidings and a song The ages long, the ages long. 

The last stanza, too, is intense with subtle spirituality. Sudden as sweet 
Come the expected feet. All joy is young and new all art, And He, too, whom we have by heart. 

Miss W. M' Letts, however, finds her inspira­tion in the Irish people, and with a wonderful depth of human sympathy rejoices in their joys and. sorrows in their sorrowings. Of- her late poems, the "Christmas Guest" is singularly fresh and beautiful: ; 
If Mary came to the door to-night,—. In the bitter wind and the soaking rain,— If she came to me in her sorry plight, . To plead as one woman pleads with another. 

As mothers come in their needs to a mother; If Mary came in the wind and rain. She never should beg at my door in vain. 

The closing stanza can not fail to grip the heart close. If Mary came—the Mother of God, The Rose of the World upon her breast; it begins, and then full-hearted sweeps along. Oh! I'd sweep the ashes and turn the .sod. And bring her new bread and cakes of my baking, -With the freshest butter, this morning's making. Happy the home that could offer rest 
To the new-born Child, Earth's Christmas Guest. Here, certainly, is an authentic picture of the devotion of the Irish to Mary. 
Probably one of the most exquisite Christ­mas poems in recent years is Joyce Kilmer's "Fourth Shepherd." It opens with the shep­herds watching their flocks on the hillside: 
On nights like this the huddled sheep Are like white clouds upon the grass. And merry herdsmen guard their sleep. And chat and watch the big stars pass One of the shepherds—the fourth one—is guilty of murder and his comrades have cast him off. In his remorse he wanders about aimlessly from place to place until by chance he meets Mary and Joseph turning from the inn. . He leads them to his stable, and there in the night God is born. When the angels appear, the shepherd is again out on the hills with his sheep. At dawn beside vn.j drowsy flock What winged music I have heard; But now the clouds with singing rock As if the sky were turning bird. Is there anything in our modern poetry more beautiful? Is this not a faint revelation of the wonders of the language that as yet no ear hath heard nor eye seen? And then, too, the loveliness of this last, when the guilty one is forgiven: O Whiteness, whiter than the fleece Of new-washed sheep on April sod! 6 Breath of Life, O Prince of Peace, -O Lamb of God, O Lamb of God. So the poets have gone on, year after year, discovering new beauties in this great mystery, offering the Divine Child their verses like the gold and myrrh and frankincense that the Magi brought. • And after all, is not a poet doing his real work when he writes on such a subject? Let.critics assign him to a major or a minor class, it matters not; if he be a true poet he will see God, and where can we see Him better than at Bethlehem? 
A Farewell. 

r^OOD-B YE, Old Year, the moonbeam's gentle rays Fall softly on the silver of thy locks. Within thine eyes, the hope of other days Flickers a faint farewell; the night wind mocks Thy passing hours by screeching o'er the Wild And moaning in the caverns of the deep; 
- For soon the promised-year, a new-born child. Will waken smiling from his natal sleep. 
• The young remain, the aged pass and die, " So fare thee,well. Good-bye, Old Year, good-bye. 
R. S. 
^ m»­
The Spirit of Christmas. 
BY B. EDMUND. 
ANY festivals and celebrations take place yearly in every land, but it is certain, none are looked forward to so eagerly as Christmas. 

The word Christmas signifies the Mass of Christ, for on Christmas Day nineteen hundred and fourteen years ago was born the Victim whose death was to free mankind from the tyranny of Satan. It is in grateful remembrance of this mercy that the Church celebrates the feast in so joyful and solemn a manner. On that day she allows her priests to say three Masses, one of which may be offered at mid­night. Even at so early an. hotir, people eagerly hasten to the parish church and joy­fully assist at it. With what sentiments of devotion and love are their souls filled at the sight of the "crib!" And when they, receive the Infant Christ into their bosoms, how sweetH' their heart-strings give forth the strains of " Adeste Fideles!" Oh! if it were always Christ­mas, then to such souls earth would not be earth but another Eden. 
But at this season the human element also enters into our joy. Old feuds are forgotten; ­heart and hand are open to our fellowmen, and the spirit of charity binds all in the bond of a universal brotherhood. It is- necessarily so, for true charity does not rest in God alone; it must also embrace all His rational creatures. 
Naturally, too, the spirit of Christmas manifests itself in a variety. of cherished and beautiful customs, many of which have come down to us from the dim ages of paganism. The custom of decorating our houses with holly and laurel and the fair mistletoe is 
THE. NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
200 
Druidic in its origin, as is also the burning of the Yule-log. The lighting of the Yule-log is peculiar to England, and, in-ages past, had the dignit}' of the public celebration. But though some of these customs are of pagan origin, many are purely Christian. Among these we may take .as a tj'^pical example the Christmas tree. Christian tradition seems to have cast a halo about some plants: flowers spring up on Christmas night, and trees are said to take on once more their summer cloth­ing of blossoms. Although many stories of this kind are without foundation, it is a fact that in France there are some shrubs that do blos­som in midwinter, while nobody properly informed doubts the flowering of the Glaston­bur}'^ thorn in England. The flowers of this tree are seen to bloom year after year during the Christmas season. They are somewhat smaller than in summer and do not produce -fruit; Legend has it that, the tree springs from the staff Joseph of Arimathea planted there, when he came to England with the Holy Grail. Another - beautiful custom that seems special to Ireland is the • lighting of the Christmas. candle. It is abqut two feet high, and is left to burn from the night of Christmas Eve until next morning. A peculiar but stable equili­brium is established by fixing the candle in a hole dug out of a large turnip. It is also well­" known that the original Santa Claus, is no other than St. Nicholas, whose feast is cele­brated earl)' in December. In Holland and many parts of Germany St. Nicholas' Day is ver}'- popular with the children, even more so than Christmas,- and on the eve of his feast 
• the)^ place, their little'wooden shoes near the fireplace to receive his gifts. If the}^ find a xod instead of their usual, toys and sweetmeats, .it is a sign that the Saint has not been pleasejl with their behavior during the past year. Then again there is the custom-of sending Christmas­; cards, Christmas boxes and the like. One and all originate in thespirit of piety, fraternal charity 
= and jo)'' that .is so distinctive a mark of the ^season, and; without.'which Christmas would ' be::but the mocking-.skeleton of what it really is. 
•.On -this day, how niany hearts are made glad,;'how many -sorrows forgotten!. ^Though , thewind.be.cMll/ and the sk}'^ leaden and, dull,. ; ,yetf the .sunshine of love- and. joy fills '.the soul. ^{Indeed-: j-the;;spirit is;, best expressed inTthe 
words:•." Glpr}^be to. God. inlthe , highest,'^and ;ron:eaxti{peace^^ to>m^ , J ' -. 
His Mother. 

I F she had tarried at thy cottage door And asked for rest, Wouldst thou have welcomed her-with cheerful heart And made His nest? 
If she had come to thee in dead of night' . In strange disguise. Wouldst thou have seen the light of love aflame Within her eyes? 
If she shall come to-dav—a troubled soul— To ask thy aid, O wilt thou soothe her weary, aching heart Nor be afraid? 
Should Old Acquaintance. 
BY EUGENE R. MCBRIDE. 
S the shivering outpost ceased his restless passing to and fro, he brought his rifle to the port and looked straight ahead of him down the darkened 

road. Far away he heard distinctl}?-, the beat­ing of a horse's hoofs on the frozen ground. It was from the rear,'however, so the picket stood calmly in the middle of the road awaiting the rider. He had not-long to wait, for soon horse and rider emerged from the mky dark­ness, and halted a foot in front of him. 
"Countersign!" demanded ' the picket promptly. 
"Headquarters." came, the reply. "Orders have been issued to cease firing all along the line. A two-da)'^ armistice has been declared. There are to be no exchange of shots between pickets to-night.- You are to be on the alert, however,'and to see that the road is kept clear. Fraternizing with the enemy" is strictly for­bidden.. You understand?" 
The picket's hand touched the ^dsor of his cap. . ;. • -. . "Is that all, sir?" . hetcalled after the rider, who had already begun- to, canter away. He askied the question more for the sake of breaking the monotony of his lonesome state than for the acquisition of further information. 
The young: aide,J a mere, boy, reined up his horse and turned around-in: the :saddle. . "Yes,'.' he. answered,,; "except—a happy .rChristmas Eve to you, picket'' ,;Then he laughed at the absurdity;of his:>w6rds.:;'.. -.,. 
;-'.-: :,*.^.C 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 20I 
The outposts' hand again touched his cap, as-he gruffly returned the greeting. The mes­senger immediately galloped off in the direction which he "had come, leaving the region doubly desolate. 
For a long time the lonesome warrior stood still, listening to . the hoof-beats becoming fainter and fainter, until they finally died out altogether, leaving him alone with only dark­ness and the snow-covered ruin of what had once been the home of a prosperous farmer, for company. After gazing longingly for a while at the distant ridge of campfires that dotted the English lines, he resumed his fretful pacing backward and forward and kept a close watch on the road ahead of him. Sud­denly, several hundred yards in front, a light flickered and grew, then another and another sprang up, until the whole bleak landscape was dotted with them. Standing still and breathless, the lonely soldier imagined that he could hear the cheerful crackling of burning logs. He dropped the butt of his rifle on" the frozen ground and clapped his hands together to induce warmth, never taking his eyes from the lights ahead of him. 
The Dutch have got wind of the armistice, too," he thought to himself., "They're the boys who know how to enjoy themselves. It's just my bloomin' luck to be furthest outpost, without the chawnce for a warm, an' 'appy Christmas heve said 'is young lordship. I knows a spot in Bengal where I wasn't doin' polar explorin' lawst Christmas heve. There's my hidea of—" 
His reminiscences were interrupted here by. a sweet tenor voice that came from the 
Germancovered  lines, echoing sweetly over the snow­ countryside:  
- - Stille nacht, heilige nacht  Alle schlaft, einsam wacht!  
"Wot  a rotten lingo!" muttered Mr. Atkins,  

but he listened attentively nevertheless until the last sweet strain.died away, when he felt lonelier than ever. Angered at having allowed his sentiments to run away with him in this fashion, he let out a whoop of • derision which was intended .more. for. the sake of hearing his.own voice than- for an insult. An answering shout canie from the vicinity of the nearest campfire where, a German picket also strode back and forth. After several minutes had" passed, a huge trooper^ in Bavarian uniform emerged from the darkness to -the side .of the road. The English outpost ..quickly raisedr his gun and covered the intruder. - .. . 
"Ach! Neinl NeinI" cried a cheery voice.. 
" I  come  to  salute  Caesar,  not  to  biiry  him.'  
It is cold, there is  a  tmce.  Come to  our  fire  
and smoke with  us."  

"Well of all the bloomin' neirve," cried Tommy. "We blokes are fightin' Dutchie, this ain't no week end party y'know and-—" swelling with pride over his hewly acquired phrase—" 'fraternizin' with the enemy is strictly forbidden.' " 
But the German insisted: "Aber it is Wein nachten—Christmas," he said smiling. "We will 'sing to-night and fight to-morrow." 
Tommy cast one glance behind him ;at. the far distant lights, w;here his own companions were making merry. He knew that he would not be relieved by the guard for several hours.. 
"Why not?" he asked himself. . He looked ahead of him at the inviting blaze. His keen nostrils quivered when he smelled something cooking, it was a very faint odor, but it decided him. Slinging his-rifle, over his shoulder he followed the stranger, casting furtive glances behind him at every step. After several minutes walk, he stood in the midst of the enemy at the.nearest fire. Eight or ten other troopers were sitting on logs or on the ground, looking into the cheerful flames. There was a pan resting on the: hot coals, and something in it that sizzled and gave forth the delicious odor of frying meat.-; ' "See what I have brought you,,my-friends," cried Tommy's companion. "I"have captured an Englishman, whose ransom, shall be a song. He is: of the Royal Bengalese, as I see' by.his dress. They fought us well at. Tirle-, mont. Let us welcome a brave enemy." Each of the loungers acknowledged the Englishman's presence with a nod and a sinile. Tommy walked awkwardly up to the fire and took a seat on a log next to a strapping^ big^^ Bavarian. He calmly lit his pipe and;puffed away con tentedly. Soon the pan was; lifteti from the .fire and a mess of steaming- hot sausage passed around on^wooden : "chips, : Tommy coming in for a liberal shareiV He attacked it vigorously, even swallowing-/the-; wrapping. The warmth of the fire had attracted" him, but he had retained the cold dignity ptithe-Briton, until after he had eaten. /The.saiisage^^ 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
202 
won him completel}'', however, and when his 
entertainers call-ed for a song he complied 
willingl)'- and roared out several ballads of the 
cockne)'' type, much to the amusement of his 
listeners. Finally the lire and the meal began 
to take effect, and he became sentimental 
He began to sing "Annie Laurie" as only the 
British soldier can sing it. 
A hush fell upon the merr\' group and everj­soldier listened attentively. Although the words, were strange to most of them, the sweet plaintive melod}^ touched them deeply and made them big hearted men again. The singer ended the ballad and was shocked at the deep silence that ensued. Finallj^ one of the Germans, Tommj-'s captor, spoke; 
"It was that song the Knglisli sang the night 

before Tientsin, when ^ve fought the Boxers." 
Tomni}- turned to the speaker. , 
"Chinee campaign?" he inquired. 

The German proudlj'^ displayed his service medal and Tommy did the same. Then they both grinned and turned reminiscent. 
" I remember the Germans," said the Eng­

lishman, "There wasn't mam'' of them but 
the}'- did a da^'-'s work. You helped to save 
our hides when the Chinks cut us off from the 
coast. 1 was with Sej'-mour's column, y'know." 
"A gallant leader and brave command," 

commented the German, his eyes .flashing. 
",We fought well together in the long weeks 
that followed." 
'"I t was;a fight.for sure," replied Tommy, 

"but liof course nothin' to_ this scrap. We were fightin' 'eathens then, .and nov/ we're ,fightin';^ach other," Here he. tried to laugh, but pnl}'^ succeeded in . making a gruesome attempt at it.. " It's a bloody me§s, as Benny 
Greaves .would ..say." .. . ,. . 
" "Benny-—.?" said, the Germandnquiringh''. -"Greaves,", answered, Tommy; .''Bunkie of mine for ten years. \ Kalled at the Ainse." 
r. At; this touch of .nature, true to .the. prpvei:b, his enemies;became!-lus;kin.\-There was not one there- who. ia d not;lost some relative or chum rin-f the; early.:da3^s-jpf,- the .war. . The" .silence, again-Jbecame;unbearable.;:;.-. --- i. _ > :-'-;'Had< a-i letterifrornVrBeriny's kid. to-dav: >msMri^.iine .Meri3':^;Christmas:\: She :sent;;me her' 
picture. "A--Tpmmy^ o 'brought:::!ojtiic acspiledS envelope^': Addressed tin 
:^^^rz.^pik 
girl of about eight summers. Several, hands' were stretched forward to receive it, and it was passed around the group and closel}'­examined by the flickering light of the fire. Tommy's sentimentalit}^ was infectuous. The thoughts of every'-one of his listeners flew back to homes in Bavaria, and dwelt fondly on some little flaxen-haired child left there to await the fortune of battle. There was much clearing of throats-and another awk^vard silence. 
"The}?- know how to fight—the EngHsh,' . resumed the veteran, ' •• "And the Dutch—Germaiis," answered the Englishman, not be to outdone in generosity, A kindly, half-cynical smile spread over the German's face. " • "It is strange, as 3''0U sa}'-," he mused, "We were soldiers of the same cause once. Shall we ever be so again?" "Dunno," replied Tommy, rising hurriedly and glancing toward his vacant post. "Mean­while"— a huge grin enveloped his cockney countenance—" 'fraternizin' with the enem}'- is strictty forbidden.' I thank you kindly for the feed and warm." He buttoned his.great coat, picked up his gun and started on his lonely walk. The big Bavarian got up and walked quickly after him. "The little madchen," he said, "I wish her health and many joys. I shall look for her when we reach London." Here the German laughed merrily. '' All right,'' ~ grinned Tommy. '' She'll be read}'^ to inarr}'- then.'-' "Leb Wohl!" called the sometime enem}^. Orry •. more I"- answered To mm}'. In a few miniites he. was back once more at his lonely post, and the •.restless pacing to and fro, to wait for sunrise and the relief. "You're a^traitorto your coiintr}^, me lad," he said.to himself;; "A bloomih' traitor. Ye've sold yer king fer a-mess'of sausage, but after aU,-1: doh'.t'kno-w. who's the worse for it. Feed toruight and: fight to-fnorrowi"- he-went on philosophically. ;" So ..he was in China. We were'bunkies once, and.didn't know it." He paused;-^ here.} anU-fastened ;his-:: e}'-es on the distant Kghtiwiiere he .had; been' a short time before;- .A.::sensebf>brp^^ him. : "; " Soinetirnes; Iiihink .Ut's; unnatural for :us .to 
•be killih'reach%ptKer.-this iwayj" :he -murrnured,; "byt^hat?ainjt ioi^e:^ . r 
mmmmm&sMix: 
TBE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
:2b3f 
Christmas Night. 

O H wonderful and joy-bestowing night. As Bethlehem's shepherds huddled cold and still. An angel clothed in'raiment shimmering white. Appeared and gave the message of good will. 
For guiding star they left their bleating herds And found enthroned, their court a lowly shed. The Blessed Queen with loving arms and words And King of kings with light-encircled head. 
Thus He had coihe Who was announced before. The Son of God, the hearts of men to stir. And finding, low they bowed Him to adore 
•With gifts of gold and frankincense and myrrh. 
And now the Christmas^ night has come again. The hearts of men with joy and love should fill; 
•That thei-e-may be, as first was brought by Him, A peace on earth to all men of good will. 
John Urban Rilev. 
Christmas Day. 
BY B. WALTER 

^HRIST'S nativity, is for all of us the day of the whole year most eagerly anticipated. It has. become a part and parcel of our American as well as of our Catholic life. It seems strange to us, then, to be told" b}'- historians that Christmas was not always celebrated on December 25, and even that during, the first arid second centuries of the Christian era it was rot generally cele­brated at all. Birthday celebrations were of pagan origin, and so the earlj'- Fathers of the Church looked with disfavor on all nativity festivals. Origen says that "sinners alone, 
.not saints, celebrate their birthday." ­
Strange to say, the first e\ddence of the Christmas celebration com.es from Egj'^pt, the Egyptian theologians assignirg May 20 as the date of Christ's birth. In fact almost every 
-month of the year has at different times and places been assigned as the birth-month of Our Lord. January 6 was a favorite date for celebrating the feast.after the custom had obtained a foothold in the Church. Uniformity, however,, came only after the year A. D. 243, when Rome first ' began to celebrate the Nativity on Pecember 25.-' 
The ^personage of Santa, Claus is riot strictly an adjunct of the • Christmas festival. The original and first real Santa : Claus was of course St. Nicholas, whose death is commemoTf': re' 
rated by the Church on December 6. He has !,:> 
long been held as a favorite saint by the.childreri ^ :? 
of all countries. His gererosity, goodness and.;' t^ 
care for the little ones were responsible for Ms'. __* 
popularity, and as time went on the. idea of - r" 
the saint changed, until we now have the good-^ .. 
natured and generous old man so familiar, in ; : 
Christnias story and Yule-tide tale. -' 
Christmas is one of the most universal of i all the feasts. Wherever the light of the Gospel • ­dispels the darkness of error and sin, there the gladness of the Christmas season is - manifest. '• It is a feast particularly dear to Americans, ,»­notwithstanding the fact that many have little : -; further relation with the Saviour whose birth--' day is to them an occasion of gladness and > fraternal good will. The Pilgrim Fathers.' ­threatened to leave us without the. inheritance ' ^.; of this happy season, for out of a narrow jealousy: ~ and prejudice they endeavored to abolish all > . memory of past- traditions and. to substitute. Thanksgiving Day for the birthday of Guf. Lord. But happily the American heart-was. big enough to hold both festivities, and firm ,; ; enough to override the prejudice of race and creed. ' • ' .­
Notre Dame was blessed at a very early ., date with its first Christmas celebration. The . . intrepid Father Allouez was on this .spot '; teaching the Pottawatomie Indians perhaps ;. : as early as 1675—at least his mission was firmly ^ • ^ established by the year loSo. We may belieye 1;;.: that tliis zealous Xavier of x4.merica oi^ each?^. " : recurring Christmas made glorious with-;:.tie; .iZa presence of the Divine Child that, poof-"mis-l-_ 0-> sion "hut where in future ages would rise the>". more splendid, towers of the shrine of.AMary ,::,•::' Immaculate. . . ; " 1 ' 
Comfortxe: 
QNC E did T pray.to thee, •;. ' 
Bride of the Lily-King,' •' 
In-my sore misery, ~. / •:.; 
Begging that thou wpnlcist bring.. 
Him who is passioh-free .f ' '.i; 

mMm.
Into my soul. 
Now my I,ove conies-to me. 
Borne on thy-Virgin breast; 
Daily 1 visions see/ . 
. 'Daily sweet Virtue's quest 
I;ead me to Him and- thei 

»:i'm-?M
' Heaven's-.bright goal 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
.204 
A Parting. 
I N other climes or iiear or far. No matter where yon go, When bur'niiig Yule logs fill the uight With a soft silver glow. When all the world seems full of love And wrought with inelody, Look back across the fading j'-eais. And you'll remember me. 
Though you may live among the rich And tread tlie golden waj-. Where pleasures like the Autumn leaves Lie scattered in your waj^. When the white tide of Yule comes in Across the surging sea. An old sweet face Avill smile again If you'll remember me. 
'Tis lonely to have loved arid lost. But Avh\' should one be sad. Who would have given twice the price To know that you.are glad? The mist shall from my eyes depart, ]My heart shall fill with glee. If when this night comes round each year Yon pause to think of me. . . -_ • M. R. 
The Hallowed Time. 
BY GEORGE-SCHUSTER. 

' N'those-amiable dead days before silver-tongued diplomats had officially sanctioned M grape^juice or. the national beverage, and when. a ma n could brew a cheerful bowl of punch - without erecting an iron-barred club-house to protect himself from green-eyed suffragettes, Washington Irving of Knicker­
.bocker fame accidentally rambied into an ^nglish gentlernan's manor and discovered various' relips of Yuletide jests and customs, which the.world has been imitating ever since. His desmptioh;opened the optics of that senti­mental gentleman, Charles Dickens, to the fact. that Chfistmas should be the best time ever, 
-
 arid inspired him toVwrite." Christinas Carols" 

-
 asi<i3' Cric^t:>-^n: the \Hearth,^' jtill holiday chiilarityCibeca^ It has 


Ithe^pledgei^^ridfthat^jall^ -^ , .'^ logs j^rarid;-i poor :f^ 
'mmmrnm. 
Tims. Yet, I am sure that everyone of us who is forced to listen to his prosaic radiator sizzle and to reflect upon the lugubrious anaemia of his wallet, is homesick for a some far-off, simple land where raging fires leap upon big, hospitable hearths and hearty men and women enjoy themselves simpty and- thoroughly. .' 
'Twas Christmas Eve! Ah, that little phrase with its vision of a dim manger where the ox and the ass gazed stupidly upon the sweet little Boy that la}'^ huddled upon their provender, has made many a heart tender with thought" and joy. Correggio signed it beneath his fervid masterpiece; Dickens, Merimee, Amerbach-^ who can count them all?—have prefixed it to those stories which make an easy-chair "a consummation devoutly to be wished;" Shakes=­peare, Scott, Browning, Longfellow, and the whole dear throng of them, have put it into ditties we all know by heart.- Despite all our cool-smoke . and Malthusian economics and Progressive politics we can't get it out of our heads. 'Twas. Christmas Eve! The very sound makes us generous and happy and peaceful." It is not merely roast goose and plum pudding; it is the image of a little church in" 
the snowdrifts, where the bells are always ringing, where there are little children singing round a crib. , We all go to church' on Christmas. 
Yet there was a time when men strove to make it a plain, colorless day, and when they wellnigh succeeded. The grim Puritan whose spectacles were everlastingly fixed . on the Penitential Psalms, could not for the life of him see why there should be any merriment on a church hohday. It smacked .of Popish cerembn}'^, of undue pagan merriment, of a disturbance of that ghostly, • sombre quiet which theXord had set aside,for His especial obser^'^ances. The Puritans were partly correct. Wrhen :the Church had the say of things, Jesus celebrated His birthday. It, was. thought _ that everybody should rejoice and grow sentimental and; generous upon seeing: that helpless- Infant 
who had come down to "save them: ^ ,'.-Go d blessrye,jmerry; gentlemen; . - :. ", :" ... /May. nothing ryou dismay;/ ;.. • " ,'. , : For Jesus:/Christ _ : W'aV'born on Christmas^^^ One -notaI)le":fact^^^^ ,Christian caro^^ is^ that 3t calls; a .blessing.ju * 'merry peopie.";5H^ad • Mt^^^ written • it, {& : epithet) wo have 
-'^f::CiAys;^->S;>-:l,-o;>-. 

been "holy." There.can be no doubt that the mediaeval, Catholic idea was to make men rejoice with God and His saints on holy days. Since it was impossible for sinful men to twang the heavenly lyre, they sought expression in song, in dramatic representation, even in the ancient Kirmess.. The very Sacrifice of the Mass, properly considered, is a celebration—august, it is true, but joyous with robes and music and incense-vapor. It is quite evident there­fore, that everything which the. modern world still preserx'^es of the glorious Christmas spirit is a • legacy from that warm-hearted, human Church which has known the heart of man so long and so well. 
Here in America we, whose forefathers gathered from every nation of the world, have incorporated into the festivities of the season little tokens from all the lands of our birth. We have our dinner which is essentially English; .we have our trees which are the heirloom of the Teuton; we have our Santa for the children who is descended in direct lineage from Peter Stuyvesant. Above all, we have the carols which minstrelsy used to sing in the grim old Border castles; the hymns with which French troubadours warmed the Xmas wine; the little melody which the schoolmaster and the priest wrote out of their hearts when the snow lay thick on the roofs of their German village. Perhaps there is added to all this something distinctively American and audacious—a reck­less lavish .giving that sometimes wreaks itself put in" impulsive, objectless charity. 
_ It" is sad to think, when reading the ballads, the chronicles and the stories of a more genial time, that so much of the festal joy and games and old-fashioned cordiality has been lost to the modern world. It is wonderful, however, ito think, when considering the awful waves of puritanism, evolution arid categorical impera­tive the earth has been forced to swim through, of how much true-hearted, genuine charity, love for children, and self-sacrifice have been left on oui- old planet. This year, naturally, a blight will rest on our happiness^ For no sympathetic mind,-no one that is really capable of entering into the Yuletide- spirit, can help but think of the big, sputtering guns that will kill on Christmas Day. Especially true is this of us whose very ceremonies show how closely our lives are linked with the European fatherlands: We shall see a picture of ruined homes and empty houses, of bleak trees standing 
in the silent snow and of great red pools of blood. Men will charge their enemies on" Christ's ^Day, slay and be slain. Bayonets, will be fixed, trenches dug and Red Cross surgeons kept dismally busy.; And over it all there will be that sad, fruitless message which the angels sang to the shepherds nineteen hundred years ago. Ah, we cannot believe that Mary laid Him in the manger for naught. This war must be more than a greedy commer^ cial conflict, more than a bloody expression of hate. We are certain that Europe is in the throes of a struggle for mighty ideals, for prin­ciples Christ bade her cherish against staiii and corruption. We must believe that some­where there is right and glory and truth. 
It is well for us, then, in this most solemn hour of humanity's life, to reflect that the Church from whom we inherit our Yule­tide, has intended it primarily, as a festal commemoration of the Saviour's birth. It is well for us to go back to that stormy night in Bethlehem, when there was no room at the inn. For out in an unknown corner of an erring world, Mary the Virgin kissed her new-born Babe. . He came simply, humbly,-purely to save that world, which needed, still needs, simplicity and humility and purity. And the shepherds came to adore Him. It-was Jove that brought them, human love for helplessness and homelessness. Let it be a similar love that brings us to His baby feet., When we are joy­fully, cosil}'' harbored in our fathers' houses, let us not forget that misery shivers as she walks the naked streets, that children cry for bread and raiment, that there are many for. whom, too, there is no room at the inn. There:, is no doubt that we'can still give Him a'cup of water. Ah, , then, in the possession "of . that Blessing whose coming made the Judeah hills tremble with delight and welcome, let us not forget to alleviate the poverty and .sadness and wrong of His brethren as best we can. 
When the wassail bowl, is fiUed. and the. Yule songs are fervid and love and generosity light the eyes of all, then is the time to think of Mary and her Infant Son. "When there is. peaceful radiance on the hearth, when the ; breasts of all are lightened from their toil and sin and wrong, when the, candles; glow softly, at" the Midnight Mass, then it is^ that "Merry Christmas" is a phrase of heavenly^ significance and.a red-cheeked greeting ^fresh . from Paradise. ._ 
There Was no Room at the Inn. 
TO-DAY I saw the lily Maid of old No trnmpct sounded on the midnight air. Tread the hard stony waj' of long ago, No banners blazed the way to that lone cave; The hour was late, tlie wind was bitter cold, The earth a soulful sorrow seemed to wear .A.nd all the fields were glistening with snow. . Like one who weeps and watches lij"; a grave. 
But lo! sweet hope gleamed in the Maiden's eye As she drew near to enter 3'our cold heart— I thought T heard a mother's sobbing crj'^ As you drew bock and bade the Maid depart. 
And so at everj' heart she pleads for rest, But oft meii ansv.'er her, "we have no place. No room-to make your little Babe a nest, 
- No room for the Redeemer of our race." 
And through, the night the lily Maid of old Treads the hard waj' that long ago she trod; And men have room, for silver and for gold But few can find a resting-place for. God. 

And so,at last must come the judgment daj', The day of Ijitterness and heavy gloom, " ' ­When the Redeemer of mankind will say "Ye cannot enter here. 'There is no room.'" 
The Passing of 
BY RAY 
AY'S last red beam was smouldering in the sunken west, a star or two had ahead}'- pierced the deepening blue, and the moon which had since earl}'' 
in the afternoon been hiding in tlie. sk}'^, appear­ing and disappearing like some shapeless spectre, was now beginning to take definite shape. It was a December night that is seen only now and then at long intervals. It was not what could be called cold, though the air had a crispness.about it that made one feel it was hot an autumn inonth, and the clear, frost}'­light as it poured over the sleeping fields gave 'everything an appearance of rare beauty. 

As I-paused near the gate of the city my notice was.drawn to a crowd of people folloAving after an old'man, who tottered unsteadily, as he moved oyer the rough.pavement.. His face-was wrinkled with the lines that time had ' drawn there, his hair was silver, and his long snowy beard, as it rested on his breast, made him. look Hke some venerable figure that is so, often seen in pictures and so seldom met with in. real: life. -1. moved nearer until I could distinctly hear the conversation of the, people, :aiid'for:a momehtmy blood almost congealed /in-my-veins. .A.woman in tattered garb, with hair rtahgled' and wild, and. 'with bloody red 
B. Roche. 

 the Old Year. 
 SUTTON. 
eyes was heaping maledictions upon the old man as he feebly moved on his way. "You ruined me," she shrieked in a voice that seemed only half human and she clenched her fist against her enemy.- "You ruined me, you broke up my home, you took my children and left me in the gutter to die-like a dog. I was happy before you came. I had a* home that was a pai-adise, and my children gathered at my knee to say their prayers and smiled upon me, proud to call me mother. My husband loved me and was watchful to my every need and desire. All the world was full of sunshine and happiness and love till you came. You brought the drug which wrecked my life and left me the wretched crea-ture that I am.' A curse be on you for your evil deeds; may you never know another hour of happiness." In the rush and hurry of the throng the ribald woman was : crowded , out arid another voice rang out like sweetest music on the air. I looked. toward the speaker and beheld the most beautiful face I had ever seen. A young girl of not more than sixteen summers whose brow shone like the forehead of a babe and whose large brown eyes mirrored her unruffled soiil, was followirig_close beside the old man. . 
" Farewell, gobd^i friend," she. was saying, 

"you kept me pure and sweet and holy. You showed me the road that Mary trod; you pointed out the fickleness of earthly friends; you helped me step by step along the path of virtue and goodness. I shall ahya3''s remember you no matter how long you haA^e departed." And taking the old man's long bony hand she kissed it and the tears glistened in her eyes. 
We had now come to Convent Hill, and as the girl turned aside to mount the steep, sL boy of about eighteen years of age cried "out in the most vile cursing I had ever heard. His eyes were sunken in his head, and his cheek­bones seemed almost protruding through the yellow skin that covered them. His voice was hoarse and hollow as though it had been exposed to the cold streets and the dampness of night, and he drew short, gasping breaths as he struggled in the crowd and sought to strike the old man_. " I saw you come," he said; "I welcomed you because I tliought you were what you seemed to be. You deceived me. I never dreamed such wickedness could be hidden under that smile. You led me little by little to the gates of hell where I am standing, and now I am too weak and wasted to go back." His frame shook convulsiveh'- as he poured out a volume of oaths and curses on the old man's head, and then I saw bright silver glitter in his hand, but he was grasped by two strong men and hurried away into the darkness. 
As I turned again to look at the old man he was addressed by a sweet-faced old woman, whose smile seemed to light up the earth with new splendor. Her voice was weak but most inexpressively musical. • "God bless you," she said, as the old man was about to pass out through the gate, ''God bless you and keep you always. I have only a little while to linger and then .1 too shall go, but I shall always remember your guiding hand during these last days. You kept me true to m}'- God and my family, and made my last days bright and happy. Good-bye again, and God be with you." And then as the old man tottered out and the great bronze gates swung to behind him, a youth with flaxen curls and large blue eyes tripped softly in" through another gate and the people raising up their voices cheered lustily. From the heart of town the sound of. unseen silver filled the air, the blast of trumpets • sounded sharply and I recognized the youngest child of time whom the people were saluting— the little New Year. 
Yesterday. 
QEE P in my heart to-night fond mem'ries dwellf Faint from the chasm of'the past they swell. Till all my soul floods full in sympathy With by-gone days and things I loved so well. • 
Through Fancy's glass, the past, a fairy maze . Of happy dreams and pleasant lighted ways Seems all of joy and youth and happiness. No sorrows ever blight our yesterdays. -• -^ 
We never think that then was sadness too: The skies of years ago are ever blue. Their radiant suns light all the years between They see no cares and only joy renew. 
A ndre-ic L. McDonoug'^. 
Adeste, Fideles." 
BY MARK L. DUNCAN. 

j^^^^H E Spirit of Christmas is present and 
the whole Christian world is become 
the scene of beauty and love and 
inspiration. ,It is Christmas Eve in 

the little "Swiss village. The villagers are congregating in the streets and" the Spirit of Christmas is upon each one.- It directs their ever>^ light step; it creates a feeling of good­will; it tears away the lines from saddened and haggard faces; it displaces sorrow with cheer,­it makes the hearts beat with a throb that betokens love and peace for everybody and ever}^hing. The gladsome throng presses merrily down the narrow streets. High, high above stretches the mass of" mountain ever­greens, capped with their snowy whiteness. And the moon casts its silvery gleam over-the mountain pass. The moonbeams play upon the faces, of this crowd of the Christmas Eve. 
The people wend their way toward the village court in the open; and there behold the object of their joy—the village Christmas tree.-.In its majestic glory it stands alpne, reflecting the pride of the great forest from whence it came. From its staunch base to its very top it is perfectl}'- shaped. For years and years the court has seen this happy throng; for years and years the" giant tree; for years and years the. Spirit of Chfistmastide. Little children tripping beside their pargnts, all smiling and happy; lovers with their sweethearts, arm in .arm; 
feeble matrons led b}'^ their stalwart sons; old men supported by their mountain-stocks. But the eyes of 3'outh and the eyes of maturity gleam with the same love born of the true Christmas Spirit. The crowd gathers close about the tree; the merriment ceases; then all faces are raised to the pinnacle of the great tree and they behold the figure of the Christ Child. The Spirit is with them. And upon the cold, still, night air bursts forth the old, old 

carol—the  multitude  is  singing  "Adeste,  
Fi deles'':  
O come all ye  faithful  
Joyful and triumphant.  

To Bethlehem hasten now with glad accord; Come and behold Hirn, Eoru the King of angels, O come, let us adore Him! ' 
CHORUS. 
. O come, let us adore Him, O come, let us adoi^e Him, O come, let us adore Him, ., Christ the Lord. 
Sing chorus of angels, • 
•Sing in exultation Through Heaven's high arches he your praises 
poured; Now to our God be Glorj'^ in the highest! O come, let us adore Him! 
Yea, Lord, we bless Thee, Born for our salvation, Jesus, forever be Thy name adored! Word of the Father ' ISfow in flesh appearing, O come, let us adore Him! 
On This Day. 
N this day hearts will kiiow no bounds, oceans willmelt into.nothingness and space will be annihilated, and around the Christmas tree of our youth we shall gather and around the crib of our boyhood. .Young hearts will beat.the faster^ as they are 

gathered .back to. the bosom of the' faniily;. .those in; the midst of .life will ..^hasten home "with.jo}'^^ and 3'^earning, .and even the old. and .rfeebie will totter back -nath silver locks . and i;dim .e^'es to.be .children again.,for a day. And -those far-away in .sorrowr.aiid mourning will. rlay. aside.:their grief as they kneeV by the, crib 
of Bethlehem, and will breathe, a fervent prayer :;^WhicTi:, ;tli!£' ang^s of .God' \vill carry ;bkck .to the old home and mothers, . -. ' : 
Noel Long Ago. 
BY SPEER STRAHAN. 

'N the faint twilight the interior of the old cathedral was lost in a world of shadows. Il Brave figures of the saints looked down 
from the high windows into the darkened nave. Loft)'- pillars, great, like tree trunks, rose from the pavement and vanished in the dimness of the vaulted ceiling. Before the altar, the sanctuary lamp - glirnmered out star-like in the shrouding dusk. At one side of the holy place stood the Crib, the figures hidden as 3''et from view by a hanging. Onhr a few people were scattered about the great nave. Near the main aisle v/ere' a middle-aged couple, burghers the}'^ were, waiting calmly, yet expectantly for mid­night. Far across the church near the shrine of Mary, themeinbers of a guild v/ere gathering, while here half-hidden in the gloom, knelt a slender young knight, accompanied by his squire, who waited respectfully a few seats away. In the stalls on either side of the sanctuary, whitfe-habited monks hovered about like angels guarding a shrine. Far up in the choir-loft the organist waited. 
Then suddenly from afar off in the court­yard came the sound, of children's voices: Adeste Fideles Laeti Triumphantes 
The knight raised liis head and listened intently for.a mordent, his heart beating wild, his 3''oung face alight. . • 
Nearer and nearer- they came, the silver}'­strain increasing in A'olume, louder and louder as the clear tones of a chanter struck out to the midnight-: ,. ' 
Natum videte, Regem Angelorum ~ and the others joined in . Venite adoremus Dominum. That song fulfilled the time. The still cathe­dral's air of waiting sudden!}-, dissolved. . Lights flashed forth on all,.sides. .Countless tapers fillttered before Mary's shrine; the curtains were drawn back from the- Cirib, and a soft haze grew. abdiit^^the Divine Babe . and the kneeling Shephenist .Christmas had come again./JS^ary and>Joseph,-the ox and the ass in the backgrqiind:-rthey were all there, even the little ;lambs, that-seeined to huddle close to .the" Crib as if knowing: their Shepherd. 
'---j.-'i'­
•a:^'eff,K^:-^ ^t 
:;-:o??£:-:?^-c.5?;: 

mmmMAmm^mm'i&-^i::^^M 
The Ghristmas Greeting. 
ALIV glory be to God on high 
And on the earth be peace to men. 
.The angels with sweet voices sigh. 
All glory be to God on high. 
For by the star that lights the sky. 
The babe is found by kings of men. 
All glory be to God .on high. 
And on the earth be peace to. men. 
B. G. 
The Evanescent Mr. Hawkins. 
BY .ARTHUR J. HAYES. 
*T was late and the tote team was preparing 
to pull out. It had some thirty miles 
to negotiate ere morning, and. Buck Terrill, 
foreman for the Diamond Hill Outfit's 

third carfip at the headwaters of Rapid River, 
was impatient to be gone. The same philan­
thropy that impelled the Diamond Hill officials 
to pa)'' eighteen dollars a month and board, 
for dawn to dusk labor at temperatures, fre­
quently colder than thirty below, had prompted 
therh to ship out a consignment of turkeys, 
tobacco and fruits that would not, be paid for 
at the commissary. Terrill's soul rejoiced at 
this' munificence. He was hot altruistic, but 
his- influence had long been on "the wane, and 
the assurance that he had "swung the deal" 
might elevate him in the estimation of some 
of the epicures at camp. So he cursed the dila­
tory tactics of Saginaw Hawkins in good round 
accents. Saginaw was not greatly perturbed. 
He had draped himself about a hitching'post, 
and was gravely making a speech. 
With a voice that tripped and gurgled, and 

a mittened hand that described vagarious 
arcs in space, he was tendering his solemn 
assurance that the cbimtry was all right, had 
always been all right, and, with his guidance 
in the future, m.ight be expected to continue 
•all right, indefinitely. His audience, consisting of a small boy and a collie dog, did not seem to be aware that he was directing his remarks toward them. "There aiii';nuh yoose kickin'" he assesverated with pr5foundest conviction, "thish countrish 'all right, shall right alia 
.time.. 'M lookin' after it alia time. Can't , go wrong nohow. So's no ypose kickin' 'tall. 'M doin' muh besh, can complain none, and 
wish 'er wash a little besher—." At this critical^ juncture, Mr. Hawkins conceived" the videa tha't the dog was smiling at him, and forthwith-; waxed highly indignant. He wished it ;iiiade known to the cosmic universe, in no .uncertain fashion, that his judgment was infallible^ and his processes of ratiocination far beyond the vulgar grasp of the commoi herd. He hoped, that he had not been contradicted, as he, had grave reason to believe he had been, he explained-painstakingly, but if siich had been the caseV 
Benson, the sullen and saturnine, had. put in an appearance; Foley, top loader par excel-, lence and, by virtue of his position, privileged passenger, had ensconced hiinself in the sleigh, . mellowed of accent, and rendered broadly "redolent" by certain potions that retailed for two bits per glass, in that particular locality. Pete Nelson, who drove the rat-tailed buck­skins, was impatient, and Terrill, mightily annoyed. They all looked fixedly at Hawkins, and coinmented upon his ancestral line back into the stone age, neglecting not a link in either branch. 'Then Terrill crawled out of the hay , and bore down upon hiin,.wliilfe Benson, Foley, and the driver, cheered in anticipation.­
Hawkins was oblivious to the jeers and cat­calls of his companions. .He had accepted-several hypothetical apologies, and-was discuss­ing the present excellent condition of the country at greater length. The small boy had vanished, but the dog had a master in the Logger's Delight, and had to tarry in that vicinity. : To the luck^ less canine accordingly, ]\ir. Hawkins confided the. sacred truth that if there* was anything : wrong with the country'-, as he (Hawkins) :had occasion to believe, that he (the collie) had / basely insinuated, said circumstance had been perpetrated in his (Hawkins) absence, and^was^^., in nowise to be ascribed to his negligence. He was about to furnish signal and clinching proof of his innocence in the matter of;the. national perversion, when Terrill arrived: 
~ That tvorthy did not remonstrate with tie/ anchored orator. He merely tore him loose_ from the hitching post, dragged him sleighs \ ward by his mackinaw collar, and booted hini, into the hay-laden space in the rear. .Do-svii , the single street they swept, past saloon. and :­dance-hall, store and residence, and oiit linto ;:^ the gloom of the pines. Lights twinlded.to­the rear of them, as the sorrels swting'briskly:' about the bend in the ridge, that ctit off.^iail.' view of the town. It was the evening of itiheV; 
twent3^-fourth of December, and Terrill, who did not want a drunken crew on the twenty-sixth, had issued an edict of embargo, and kept some ninet}* lumberjacks out at camp while he and a select committee journeyed townward, to. acquire some tangible evidences of that impending Yuletide cheer. The night was clear, as all real cold northern evenings invariably are and the boughs of the trees cracked frostil}'-, with a A'^olume of sound not unlike ragged infantr)'^ fire. Pale stars dotted a pale sky, and an indolent moon swung low and red over the black and ragged ever green tops to the east­ward. Onl}- the hissing of the steel-shod runners over snow as dr)'^ as sand broke the silence. Occasionally another sound would serve to emphasize the almost tangible noise­lessness of the woods. Nelson might chirp at the team or Benson profanely aifirm that it would be forty below before morning. The pale sk}'' became darker, the stars brighter, and the red moon less \'ividty crimson. 
Mile after mile the}' sped along the narrow road. Rabbits flitted back and forth across their- path, owls hooted out of the black void on either side. Wolves barked and, howled eerily, but, from the faintness of call, apparently miles away. The party was lulled by the song of the runners and the click-clack of hoofs, into a kind of drowsiness. Nelson thought of a flaxen-haired girl in Cliristiana, and hoped to spend the next Christmas with her. Benson ruminated upon a misspent life, and reflected that he might have smuggled some booze into, his duffle bag. Terrill visualized a tin}'^ boy out at camp who would crow with joy over the red fire engine and the pudg}'- horse with the painted wagon and the tedd};- bear with the jet eyes. Foley thought of his mother in Tipperary, arid hoped that his Christmas offering would arrive in the "old sod" on time. , 
And.thus in silent reverie time^ might have passed until they swmng round the curve and into the chip-littered camp yard. '' Might have'' advisedl}'', for Fate, in close conjunction with 

, Hawkins, had decided that such was not to be. 
He had been persuaded by much punching and jostling to burrow under the ha}'-, and preserve a golden and dearly purchased silence. But" his saturated soul ^yrithed within him. 

-He felt; keenly the aspersions of the collie. -What right had. that misguided creature to affirm that all was not well among us, when 
no less a personage than Hawkins himself had maintained that the situation was all that ' could be desired? Mile after mile he brooded upon the ignominy of being van­quished on the subject of national welfare. He must, he would (and he did) frame a crush­ing retort. Accordingly the heaped -up hay erupted suddenl}'-, and a rehabilitated Hawkins loomed forth. Hay supplied wig and mustache for the mackihawed Demosthenes. Stramineous pendants hung from his arms as he waved them in one grand gesture. Benson cursed and strove to haul him down by the leg. Fole}'- expressed open fears about the safet}?" of his neck if he once lost his balance. Terrill commanded him to sit down, with' sundry embellishments of futile profanit}'-. But upon one and all, Hawkins turned a blearily benign countenance, waggled an uncertain paw, and repeatedly gave it forth 
as  his  unalterable  conviction  that  "Thash  
wash  all right."  .  
And  so  he  continued  unmolested.  Waving  

back and forth in the speeding sleigh, waving mittened hands in erratic curves and circles, achieving miracles of facial contortions, Mr. Hawkins challenged the collie, twenty miles back in Rapid Citj'^, to expressly affirm or deny that the countrj'' was "shall right, an' mush besher nor could be expected." Construing failure to repl}'' as admission of defeat, Mr. Hawkins magnanimousl}'^ forgave the absent canine for A'^enturing to smile at him, and con­ferred as a special token of remission of guilt, full and free permission to smile thereafter when and wherever the spirit moved him. 
They were then entering upon a long stretch of corduroy. The muskeg ' swamp stretched 
-away for miles on either side, flat, and dreary, the surface dotted by darker patches where hummocks of moss broke through the ghostly white surface. 
Hawkins, champion of the present state of national solidarit)'^, and vanquisher of the collie, was taking violent exception to an impudent expression on the face of the moon: He wished the latter to explain at once when it had ever received permission to be there at all, let alone to cast any innuendo upon his oratory. He demanded an explanation. 
Wliether one would have been forthcoming; it were at this-time difficult to state. For a cedar pole in the corduroy, displaced by some careless driver, earlier in the day, performed the brilliantly eccentric ceremony of "up­
ending." Mr. Hawkins vaulted abruptly moon-ward, as if to execute sundry sinister threats, and then precipitated himself upon Nelson, who acknowledged receipt of his person by fall­ing out of the sleigh. The tauteiiir-g of the reins swung the sorrels, rearing and plunging, into the swamp. The pole broke, the sleigh cap­sized, traces parted and the terrified team betook itself homeward. Nelson, hanging tenaciously to the ribbons, disappeared in a glor}'- of powdered snow, in the wake of the sorrels. Terrill dug himself out of the moss hummock, and after a fer^dd pra3'-er to the powers of darkness, awaited brimstone to blight and shrivel the erring Hawkins. Foley implored assistance for the purpose of removing the edge of the sleigh box from his neck. Ben­son clawed, frantically at thirty turkcA'-s that pinned him down, and by much kicking and scratching conveyed to the outside world the fact that he ardently desired to get from-under the up-turned sleigh. Nelson, who had been last seen producing a shower effect in a snowbank, emerged spectre-like, to con­fess lugubriously that he simply couldn't continue with those blanket3'^-blanked sorrel unmentionables! 
After some time, • somebody thought of Hawkins. One and all expressed an abiding conviction that he had broken his dam fool neck, punctuating the obser^'ation v/ith brief annotations of fervent malice and the - ardent hope that they were not mistaken. Despite sprains and bruises, they righted the sleigh. There indeed lay Benson, but no crushed and mangled Hawkins met their straining eyes. They searched on both sides of the road. They demolished the drift that had received Nelson to- its bosom. They halloed until hoarse. But no challenger of the moon hove 
.in view. Fear settled upon them. It was positively uncanny. Terrill even began to-wonder aJTrightedl}'-, if the infernal -powers had indeed made away with him. Wolves howled continually, much closer this time and the little gathering shifted imeasily, and fin­gered the butts of rifles and revolvers. They could not leave the haunted spot. Common humanity demanded that they protect Hawkins' absent corpse, if dead, and wounded person, 
if alive. It was suggested that fatally injured he had crawled away to die, though "where in tarnation" he could have crawled to, was matter of much profane conjecture. ­
Accordingly, a fire was kindled, and all huddled about the snapping embers. Foley recalled the good qualities of the evanescent Hawkins, and others agreed in husky tones, that he was after all but one degree removed, from . saintship; At that moment sleigh biells' broke upon , their ear. Jack Constantine, homesteader and scaler for the Diamond Hill Outfit hove into view. He drove a raw-bphed roan, and led the sorrels. "JBreezed into "my place about two this mornin'," he explained," "plumb hell bent fer election." The groiip remained grim and silent^ Tefrill' strove with stiff lips to speak. Constantine awoke to the fact that further explanations were desired. "The driver's clo'es are sure frazzled, but'he aint hurt to speak of. Too full, I guess." He tui'ned to the awe^stricken foremanj " I shouldn'^t a' thought you'd let a drunk drive. Buck." He could not comprehend the silence, nor the queer expressions that wreathed the features of the -wrecked party. "Funny how the liiies was wrapped arpun' his*leg," he "coutfmied. "They like to 'a' cut his boot off, an' his.duds were more ice nor any thin,' but Hawkins hisself weren't hurt' a darn."' "Hawkins!" shrieked an agonized chorus. "Wh}"-.' sure" rejoined Constantine," "aii he's full of Three Star an' turkey at my place this mihnit." "' 
And there it was that "a great light broke upon the rescuers. Of course it afforded them some satisfaction to witness the contrition of the wanderer. Swathed in a horse-blanket, much battered of countenance, but iinshaken in soul, he sat up in the bunk to bid .them welcome. In his right hand was a sadly depleted bottle of brandy. In his left he clutched a "drumstick."- He waved it in recognition of the half-frozen "giroup that staggered in. "Merry Chrishmus" he greeted them. "Besh 'ol countr}- there ish," he added; waving the turkey leg and bestoAving a kindly glance about the room. "Doin' all I can to shave 
_ 

a  countr}'-," he  continued.  "Besh  whazzer is.  
Thash  all  right."  
<• —  '•  ,  • r •  
A Christmas Thought.  •  '  
A T  Bethlehem  was  born  
•For  us  a  little  .Child,  
So early in the inofn.  '_'.'-.  
At Bethlehem was bom,  --•  
He whom our sins have torn  •  ..  

And wicked tongues reviled. .. . . At Bethlehem was bom , ­For us a little Child. ' B.'B. 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Football Review. 

After all the excitement of the past three months, after existing in an atmosphere where the latest dope was served with the hot buns every morning at breakfast, and where the evening meal was just the beginning of the discussion on "how the team went to-da}^"— after alternate periods of eager hope and black depression that * followed the various games, it seems a rather tame and thankless task to review a season on paper that has been lived 
" through so intense^. Every man University has a well-defined series of mentaL "movies" depicting the practice scrimmages and big games that made up the season, but just as we may know all the component parts of a big panorama as it unrolls before our eyes, yet it is alwa3'^s best to stand afar off and, from the proper perspective, get a view of what the whole looks like. So with the past season. It is over now, and with it are gone the flashes of feeling born of the moment; with the happy Christmas days ahead to put the importance of football in its relative position, and the knowledge that there is a great deal of sane and logical exposition to be handed out when we meet "the other fellows" in the next few-weeks, we can take a good calm look at the Notre Dame season-of 1914, and pack away a few happy thoughts for future reference. 
It was a season of ups and downs, though after November 7th, the ups t | shot right skyward to a grand finale I on Thanksgiving Day. The downs 
.were only two in. number but they were hard bumps. The first was such 
a. crash that it squeezed flat eyery 
 at the 

b}'' the way. Most of them had put in a summer of hard work as every man knew what, the season had in store, but after a week of stren­uous practice, all were willing to grant that the summer had been an idle dream—they knew that the European campaigns held no hardships for them. By the time the greenest Freshman knew Eichenlaub, Willie Case and Pete Yerns, and the Seniors had heard the bloodthirst}'- feelings of their brothers, Hayes and Schuster, toward poor Mexico, the squad was settling down to business. With twelve of the monogram men back. Coach Harper had a splendid nucleus to build on. Fitzgerald, El ward, Keefe, Jones and Lathrop in the line, and Eich, Pliska, Duggan, Finegan, Ber­ger, Kelleher, and Larkiii in the backfield, were all on the job, and working hard.. With them were Cofall and Bachrnan, stars of the ,'13 Freshman,. and a good reserve of valuable men-to draw from for substitutes. Fighting the regulars for berths, were Mills, Ward, Holmes, Baujan, Stephan, King, Welch, H. O'Donnell, Miller, Roach, Dal}^, Thorpe, Sharp, Bush, Odam, Qrady, Beh, C. O'Donnell, Voelkers, and Kowalski. Graduall}'' the men round­ed into shape, and.gradually a fast team was built up, with Fitzgerald at centre, Keefe and Bachman at guard, Capt.". Jones and Lathrop -at tackle. Mills and Elward at the wings, Cofall at quarter, Finegan and Pliska at halves and Eich at full. This was the lineup—with the exception of Jones who was out with injuries—^that was picked to meet Alma in the first game of 
HAKPER. ^ijg. season. ; ­
 COACH  pocket As had beien expected. Alma was downed in 
book in the University. Every , loj'^al Notre good stjde by a 56-0 score. Old-fashioned Dame man will swear there was a total eclipse football was resorted to almost entirely, and of the sun between 2:30 and 4:30 P. M., October for the first game, the team went well. Berg­17, 1914. : :-} man, who had just arrived at. school three 
But this is no way to begin—we must com­days before, playedquarter the last few mo­mence at the start. Said start was about the ments, and presaged 'his' wonderful work in 
Ttenth of September, when trains ; from East the later, contests : by - several, quick dashes and West began to convey Coach Harper's through the ^Michigsin boys. . Cofall played cohorts of former years to the mobilization a fine game at quarter, and the rest of the camp at Cartier Field—which the Canadian, backs, played .in good st5''le! government has plagiarized into Val Cartier, The next week of: strenuous practice was" 
es«s-^.~>­

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
marred by the most costly accident of the season—Eich strained a tendon of his leg in practice, but the injury was not thought severe enough to keep him out of the Rose 
Poly game. 103 to o, what kind Blue had 
The score of the latter contest was indicates with ' sufficient accuracy sam .
of a game it was. The Gold and made great improvement during 

the preceding week, and its interference was perfected to a greater extent than seemed possible at such an early date. To the more experienced observers, however, the line seemed to be still lacking in team play. 
Then came the preparations of the first big game. Yale was feared as a strong opponent, biit so great was the confidence of the student 
. body that anyone who had his doubts about the outcome, kept them-to him­self to prevent ridicule. Injuries to Bachman, Lathrop and Jones, and Eich's bad leg were great handicaps; but no one seemed to realize that having these men out of the game for nearly the entire practice season made machine-like team work practically impossible. When the squad left for Yale it carried the brightest hopes of the students. 
It is no use drawing a curtain.over what followed—the Klis, with the aid of a wet, hea\^'-field, all the breaks of luck, and their own better team work and generalship, chalked up 2.8 points, while the whistle at the end of each half, with Notre Dame's ball on Yales' two and three-^'-ard line, respectively, 
robbed the Gold and Blue of at least . twelye points. Capt. Jones' men fought splendidly, and individually were easily the ' equal of thier opponents, but the}"-had not the advantage of the united team work and hard practice games of the latter. And though Eastern critics were uniformly severe in point­ing out the defects of the Gold and.Blue, " they all spoke in terms of liveliest admiration of the pluck and grit displayed by the men, who, "when all was lost save honor," drove back their, opponents in a savage attack that was stopped by the whistle, almost-on the very goal line, of the Blue. That the whole school, faculty and students, appreciated the work of the team was e^^dent when, on the following Monday afternoon, Notre Dame was deserted and the team got oS at the Lake 
Shore depot to the music of a thousand cheer­ing voices. 
With a hard game against South Dakota looming directly ahead, Coach Harper allowed his men no rest. The Yale game had shown weak spots that needed strengthening, and three days of the most strenuous practice were gone through before the squad left for South Dakota. The backfield presented a new alignment, owing to injuries and experi­ments. Bergman played quarter, Finegan went to full, and .Cofall and Xarkin took care of tifcie halves.' The Coyotes were snowed under. 33-0, being unable to cope with the varied attack of the invaders, and especiali;f the rabbit­like dashes of the diminutive Bergman.^ " 
Then came the inevitable slump. The men had been going at top. speed since September, and when the Haskell game caine there was very little "pep" left. The Indians put up a hard, stubborn, resistance, arid might have .won had they been able to stop Notre Dame's AH-Western quarterback who streaked through their line and around the ends for three touchdowns. 
When the Army ga,me rolled around a week later the men were just getting back into fighting trim. Two of the stars who had a great share in Notre Dame's victory the previous year, Eich­enlaub and Finegan, were unable to play, arid this fact, coupled

AssT. COACH ROCKNE 
with two costly^ • fumbles, gave the Army victory, 20-7. Notre Dame's' score came in the third quarter when they fairly ripped their opponents to shreds. -In ­the last quarter, the soldiers were held for four downs inside the Notre Dame five-yard line: Duggan, Cofall and Pliska time and again made long gains through the line and around the ends. The work of the line was the best of the year—^the men played together and, in the second.half held like a rock. 
AND THEN—CAiaiSLE., 

When four hundred of the Notire Dame students ' and 12,000 Gfiicagoans thronged into Comiskey Pai-k on last October 14th/­they little. knew the wonderful exhibition of ­football that lay ahead of them. A seemingly : 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
regenerated Notre Dame team smeared the Indians so badly that ten years of their past histor}' doesn't show another defeat like it. With Eich back in the game again, and determined to show that he had lost none of the ability of former years, with the whole team in fine ph3-sical shape and playing as the}' had not pla3'^ed during the whole season, almost better than their best, the Redmen never had a chance. Their line was shattered, their wings turned and their defence simply demoralized by a succession of terrible drives b}' the redoubtable Eich, wonderfull}^ spectacular rushes by Cofall and Kelleher, and long twisting, dodging runs bj'the little speed marvel at quarterback. For­ward passes were used with great effect, "Mai" Elward gathering in several beautiful long heaves. The line men completel}'- outplayed their opponents, Calac being the only Indian to gain. Altogether it was the finest exhibition of football seen in the West this year, and the 48 -.6 score will go down in Notre Dame history. 
After this contest King Winter gave the men an enforced rest—two feet of snow isn't conducive to good football. The gym "\vas utilized, however, and wdien, after ten days' time, the Gold and Blue took the field against the conquerors of Michigan, it was with a confident hope- in the result. This confidence was not misplaced. The Saltines were unable to' check the ravages of the Notre Dame backs led by Eichenlaub, who played what was perhaps the greatest game of his career. Cofall; 
-Bergman, and Kelleher again starred on-long 
. runs, while the Notre Dame ends, Mills and Elward, checked'most of the Orange attempts in that, direction. The line played a remarkable game, holdirg their, opponents safe at all times, and. holding them for downs - on the two-yard line,^. at the ver}'- end of the game. It was a .fitting finale, to what was on the whole, with fair consideration of all the adverse circumstances, a successful season. . 
The season is over, the games are past, the scores are a matter of history, but the memory of the men who in victory and in defeat always gave.the best they could, will not pass. 
.Because, of-her two defeats. Western critics in picking their mythical All-Western team, .have been, chary.of choosing men from Notre, Dame.; Some, with the Conference always in their eyes, have selected teams made up almost entirely of Conference players. In the classic 

words of comedy, "It is to laugh." We should 
watch with great interest, and even greater 
amusement, a Conference team going through 
the schedule that faced Notre Dame this year. 
Notre Dame, Michigan, the Aggies, Nebraska— 
not in the class of the Conference? Ask an 
unprejudiced. follower of Western sport—he 
may agree that they're not—he puts them on 
a higher plane. 
And yet, some Notre Dame men have been so good that they could not be passed up under any circumstances. Eckersall, the dean of the Western critics, has placed Bergman on his All-Western team,- and explained that the only reason Eich was not given the full­back position was his absence from the game the greater part of the season. Charlie Bach-man, the giant guard who has made such a splendid showing all through the year, has been awarded a position on the second All-Western. On the All-State- teams, Notre Dame has fared better. The critic of the Indianapolis News has put five Notre Dame men on his first team, while the sporting editor of the Star includes seven wearers of the Gold and Blue in his premier lineup and five on the second. 
This review of the season w^ould not be complete without a proper tribute to the sub­stitutes. These men, who spend just as much time, who work just as hard, and -who receive all the hard knocks that a regular gets, with little of his glory, are at the basis of every successful season. According as the}'' give the regulars a hard tussle every da}!-, the latter are tliat much better fitted for the crucial contests. They haA'-e Avorked untiringly, willingly doing as much as they could that Notre Dame might profit, and their praise should have no stint. 
To the men Avho coached the team we owe the highest measure of thanks. Coach Harper this year gave Notre Dame a schedule second to none in the country; he worked untiringly to produce the best results, and these results speak for him. He had a tremendous amount of work on his shoulders and to the students and those who know him, his ability needs no remark. 
In Rockue, Coach Harper had an assistant than whom no better could be found anywhere in the country. "Rock," himself one of the best men who ever donned.^the canvas, is not only a fine coach in a technical sense, he has a power, of personal magnetism that attracts 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
< 
> 
XIX 
c 
> 

2l6 7HE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, 
his men and makes them willingl}'- do their a football game, were almost useless throughout best. Before the first game, Notre Dame the season.. Yet this did not deter the" plucks-looked up against it at the wing positions— captain. He started every important game • Elward was very light, and there was a big although "he knew that the-^ result might be hole at the other end. But in the Syracuse permanent injuries to himself.- He Avas always game the ends played in such a wa}'' as to. show fighting, alwas^s urging, his men pn, always the results of a season of "Rock's" truly remark­giving the best-there was in him. In the plucky able coaching. One more thing about "Rock;" stands that biir nien made on the one-yard though he ma)'^ not be aware of it', he is about line at West Point arid at S^Tacuse, no one was the finest satirical humorist at Notre Dame— more active than Jones. Pie, like Captain an afternoon on the sidelines, with- Rockne" - Rockne of last 5''ear, starred at the open game. putting the line men through a hard drill, In almost, eyerj^ gaine "Deak" received one is easil}' worth tlu-ee performances at' the-or .more-passes and-in. the Carlisle game he Orpheum. : -brought the^cfpwd^ to. its feet-.by grabbing off Nineteen-fourteen is past, but Notre Da,me long 'passes on \n6' less" .than, four occasions. will long remember the men who inade. it, Jones has firiished his.football career and we successful, the men who, even in defeat; stood can ^wish him, nothing' better-than' that his life 
out as among the finest examples of her fighting., mas'- be as successful as his activities for Notre 
•spirit Notre Dame has ever had. Danie .have,.been;; ' - .. -; -1 'r 
. ' VRAYTVIOND: J. EiCHENLAUBJ Fullback." -• The Football Men of '14. ;There/"w-a^s .ah almost jp^thetic element about Kichenlaub's--.last -days on.:the--gridiron. He . -The men who answered , Coach Harper's, had "t\\Hce;-been/ chosen.;all-Wes.tern; fullback; call for candidates for the football team last, last ..year everi^ Camp' "recoghized "his' abilit}'^ September comprised one of the finest squads 
•Jb}'^ ranking.himlsecond onl}';'ito'.-Brickley. This that has ever assembled on Gartier. Field.­
. year,;,with: Brickley".6iit.;:6f-the game, " Eich'' The men reported in splendid physical condi­
seemed- sufe.'.of;. the "honor .which his ability tion; the}'- were ready to undertake,the hardest 
deser\''ed-^AlUAmerican fuUback;^^^^^^^ fate was schedule ever, prepared for a Notre Dame team., 
against - him. r He: was .injured in practice and Yet scarce a; single man of this splendid squad 
was ..able .to ;play only' a, single' quarter before Avas able to go thrpugh the season without'. 
-;.tlie Yale gariie.fv"At;:New TTayen, his injured an injury. This fact, perhaps more, than anj'' 
kne.e;.gavefw.a,y"at:the very;;s^^^ of. the game, other^. shows" how great, a sacrifice "the men ? 
but' he.,piayed''thrpugliout the first'-lialf, unwill­made for the success of; pur team. Mam'^Jof; 
ing;^to;le*ayjC^heg^^^ them sta.rted games - when they ;.shoiild{ have 
ularfif ty-5'^'ard'dash ;=that? started i JsTotre' Dame's . been dn- the',hospital,' and they expressed :the.^ 
:>kllyj at;;';the|i!ldse-^^^^ Yale 
spirit- of the entire team. Notre-:Danie":lias:\ 

game<a!n^f that^^^^ an ;-iridication 
/ always had a- vteam "of A'fighters,'^;"; and5 she ;
:;'of/wljatJ^^^ichll been 
• -• .never had rnen who fought-bettervthamrthisi 
^fitv^^liAi^lptig^rl^ • 
;ye£tr's . wamorSiV^They: werei. defeated =?^^ 
in.^'conyitiori^"ffi 
true;'; biittieynieyer'quit.'The spiritf 

.:lie'playedlbett|0tli£m^^^ in 
' ; byv^ each individual ;oh;tlie team inak'esv>^him ,•
.rtheiJdne|oiK 
^^orth a^rvolumeof praise but we.ckuTgiy^^ 
;: he ? wasV(easn;^ttfe 
}::. . '^^^^ 
fgaine"s.'.iYHis*%bsehcet,from^^^ 
r;f":Eich.!4/fro^^^ 
_J:butfin|tKeJ^eaft^^^ 
?• r• 0^^^ thechbnor ofsileadingC : '^:> .<1tii'e^iNp^ oDame.7;team thisv^ year - andf ad^ aU:;; .- <;^V^|tim&}'Jiei.sliowed the, true spirit;of a;;U6adef;w' 
three. 

-•f^{:.^^'^-/^:i^[^on^ but of the game at the "start : , ; f KiM^t^-!^ injuries and he,. likeiEicheri-^; .\:?f;JC&la^^ Yale ;game,, with scarce ah •; is elsini. -i ^x^a^d^if^e^<y^{§B2^G^s T5 ;^i^3l:aLny-real 'preparation. ;'' Deak's " jhahdsr which-best V:c*?l^9?KadS:^wa^^ jhis"mostVvaluable,^ asset- in " 
^i>r2^--i/-l^-A 

wmmsmmMm 
5l-Cg.^^"?m^i-. 

who carried the ball into the shadow of the West Point goal just before Notre Dame made her only touchdown. Kverj'-one sincerely regrets that Duggan cannot return next year for as first string fullback he would undoubtedly gain recognition throughout the football world. 
WiLivTAM A. KELLEHER, Halfback.' 
For the first time since his freshman year, 
Kelleher was able to show his real ability on 
the gridiron. For two previous seasons, 
injuries had made him inactive, but this year 
he reported in good physical condition and he 
made* a successful bid to regain the position 
he held in 1911. The wealth of halfbacks at 
the beginning of the year made the outlook 
discouraging for "Bill" but the little "Irish­
man" showed his fight and he simpty couldn't 

be held back. His pluck finally won and he 
was in the regular line-up for the last three 
weeks of the season. He played well at West 
Point, at Chicago and at Syracuse. In the 

latter game, his defense work was one of the 
features of the contest; in fact Kelleher and 
Cofall were of inestimable worth as defensive 

halfbacks in every game. Kelleher will not 
return and in losing him, Notre Dame loses 
155 pounds of real Irish fighting spirit. 
ALVIN BERGER, Halfback. 

"Heine" is a football pla)'er"to whom Notre Dame owes a great deal. He has faithfully served the Gold and Blue for four years and he has served just as faithfully in defeat- as* in victor}'-. It is useless to again enumerate Berger's abilities for we have lauded him time and again during the past four years. • His admirers believe that he might have been used more often this )'-ear; but perhaps Coach Harper is saving the "Dutchman's" good right arm for the baseball season. "Heine" was a wonder in practice this year and whenever he got. into the game, he proved the same old "Heine" of '11 and '12. He was always good for a gain; he often tackled the enemy for a loss. He was especialh'- good at furnishing interference. "Heine" leaves- us this year but his athletic achievements are.'indelibly impressed oh the minds of all true Notre Dame men. He will carry into life's battles the :fighting spirit of an N. D. athlete and he is destined for such success upon life's gridiron as -he has experienced while striving for his 
Alma Mater. . . : -^^ 
STANLEY B . COFALL, Halfback. '•'[ \-.f 

September, 1913 was an unusually lucky month for Notre Dame for it was then that "Stan" arrived. He soon became the cynosure of all eyes and even before he donned: his moleskins, the unanimous opinion of aU the fans was "There- is a valuable-man." - The fans were not mistaken. Cofall became captain of Notre Dame's* first-. Freshman team;. He was the most feared man in-interhall.-Under, the coaching of Father Ouinlan, he developed swiftly, and soon became known as- the Sbrin teani. This year Cofall joined the Varsity ' squad. Before Bergman reported he was used at quarterback, but as soon as theHttle "Dutch-. man" began to show his form as a general, Cofall was shifted back to his naturaF position" halfback. The young Clevelander -possesses a stature, face and personality that make hitn an ideal athlete. He has great speed; he is a brilliant open field runner and a consistent, line-plunger. His trusty toe is always good for . a fifty yard punt or a long field goal. As a \ defensive back, Cofall had hot a superior-in the world; and above all he never quits fighting. He is the only one of our many brilhant backs who started every game this year and he was easily the leading scorer accounting for 86 of the total of 22S points. The best part of this whole account is that Cofall is only begin­ning his career. He has two more years to play for Notre Dame. We know those years will be filled with glory for Cofall and we hope that as a culmination of his efforts, he may'lje ^ crowned with an all-American wreath. ' '--'•'' 
RALPH G. LATHROP, Tadde. -_ 

Lathrop displayed the same consistent fight-. ing ability that characterized* his work last; year. He knew his part in every play.and he executed it well. -He charged with a drive that opened gaping holes in an. opponent's line. His tackles were sure and hard and time after time; he dropped halfbacks :before they . couM get started. "Zipper'' was ,the lightest man^pn the,line between the ends, but he was also on,e; of the best. On the defense he held.like the^ . traditional stone wall.. His speed: enalDledxjjipi ­to cover more ground than .the-ordinar3'-ta^j& does. "Lath" ::w-as-not always in the.best;of condition as he was the victim of several :; injuries but he played in air thef. imporSnt,v games, doing his best work in the face of defeat^ ? 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC • 
Lathrop has another year to play and we hope to see him back. CHARLES W . BACHMAN, Guard. 
Along with Cofall, there came to Notre Dame in September, 1913, a giant from Chicago. The giant was Bachman, and he too became a member of our first Freshman team and an interhall star. He played fullback for the "Freshies" and tackle for Corby. He was originall)'^ a backfield man but the able coaching of Father Farle}'^ soon made him an efficient lineman. This year he was chosen .to fill the position on the Varsit}'^ line left vacant when Fitzgerald was moved from guard to centre. "Bach" is a man of powerful stature and yet with the agiUty of a cat. In a game he is every­where, smashing j)la3'-s, ^ downing runners in the open and producing breaches of enormous \vidth in the opponent's line. He is a sure tackier and hits low and hard. In short, "Bach" V7as a priceless asset to the. team. At Yale he played Talbott, the all-American tackle off liis feet and sAvept everj^thing before 
him; and he never slowed up in the later games. He easily captured all-State honors and should, we believe, have been selected for the all-Western. However, "Bach" is to return to win new and greater laurels in '15. and '16. ' 
FREMONT FITZGERALD, Centre. 
•
After two. successful seasons at guard, Fitz­gerald was shifted to centre to fill the hole made by Feeney's absence. "Fitz" played centre at Columbia Prep School and this experience stood him in good stead this 3'^ear. He played just as effectively in his new posi­tion as he had in his old one. His passing was perfect and his accuracy was of great value to the team. The big Oregonian was especially prominent in.; the interference, being able to get in front of the runner in a way which few centres can duplicate. "Fitz" starred in the Carlisle game, breaking through the line and making many deadly tackles. His consistent work won hini the pivot position on the all-State team. Next year will be"" Fitz's" last one on the team and his selection as captain of the I9i5,teani.was a happy one. He should prove a; popular-and a capable leader and we wish him all success. -;: j ~ ^ ­

•r
 r> :. EMMETT KEEFE, Guard. .^"-~ .;: :VTKeefe again fUled .his pp^^^ guard 



and he did it wonderfully well. He was handi­capped at times by injuries but whenever he was able to be on the field he was the same quiet, dependable, trusty Keefe, A more deserving man never wore an N. D. He has ability and he has spirit. He is not afraid to work and he shows the results of plugging. Last year he was-tutored by Edwards, and this year b}* Rockne; and under the able guidance of these men he has constantly grown better until he is a finished "guard. There is nothing spectacular about Keefe's work; yet seldom does a man go through his position and he has the liapp3'' faculty of being where he is most needed. Most admirable, perhaps, of all Keefe's excellent qualities, is his modesty. If consistency and grit count for anything, Keefe's narne will long be remembered at Notre Dame. He has one more year to play , and we will welcome him back. 
RUPERT F . MILLS, End. The ever popular "Rupe" added football to his list of sports this fall and became a first string end. Pie was not an experienced man and hence was the daily pupil of Coach Rockne. B)'- the middle of the season, Mills "had mastered the fine points of end play and had learned to use his strength to the best advantage. He played an unusually brilliant game against the Army and he kept up his good work against CarHsle and Syracuse. "Rupe's" height and his basketball experience made him a valuable man in the open game and he was often the target of long passes from Bergman and Cofall. Mills has another year to play but he has not yet- decided to return. In case he comes back, this year's experience should make him a candidate for, high honors. 
ARTHUR B . EARKIN, Halfback, Quarterback. 

"Bunny" was again kept out of a regular berth by the wealth of backfield material.­He displayed greater abilit}'' this year than ever before and he was used in all of the impor­tant, games. He \yas used at half in the Yale and South, Dakota contests. After the latter contest he was shifted' to quarter and proved an efficient understud)'^ for Bergman. Earkin displayed; all the qualities of, a field general, running plays off rapidly and mixing them well. He starred against Carlisle,. and Syracuse, 
:his forward .-passing in the former game being the bestof ;the year. Earkin is a versatile man. 
7HE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 221 
a speedy open field runner, a good line plunger and a strong defensive man. He has another 
year  to  play  and  bids fair  to  come  into  his  
own  next  year  as  Bergman's  successor  at  
quarter.  
HARRY  C. BAUJAN,  Knd.  

For four years, Baujan has been regarded as one of the best ends in interhall. He did his prep work at Notre Dame and is in evory sense a Notre Dame.man. This is one reason wh}' we are proud of Harr}''; another is that he is a real football pla5'er. He was battling hard for a regular job throughout the season and started two important games. He always , pla3'-ed well when called upon. He is built well for his position and he, like Mills, developed swiftly under the coaching of Rockne. Baujan starred in the South Dakota combat, grabbing oil numerous passes for a touchdown. He plaA'^ed another brilliant game against Haskell, his open field tackles being one of the features of the contest. Hoxry is a close student of the game and has, we believe, tAvo brilliant seasons yet before him. 
Lso J. STKPHAN-, Guard. 

At the beginning of the 1913 season, "Steve" had grown to such a degree of corpulency that he thought it best to indulge in some soft of weight-reducing exercise. Interhall football was the means chosen. The plan worked so well last season that again, this year, "Steve" followed it out;. but this year the Varsity benefited by his activities. Those who thought Stephan could do nothing save reduce his weight, were soon disillusioned; for he forced men with great reputations to sit on the bench while he was filling a guard's position. The best of his record is that the lighter Steve grew the more efficient his playing became. He took his work serioush' and he did it well. Rockne .developed Stephan splendidly and near the close of the season it was no uncommon sight to see the popular guard from the "alley" resisting the force of four or five opponents without yielding an inch. This is Steve's first year of football. We are glad to see him win his monogram and" we hope to see him a regular linesman next year." 
GEORGU N . HOLMES, Tackle." Last but not least among the monogi'am men comes "Duck}'-" Holmes. "Ducky" came to us last. year from Nebraska. He filled a 
tackle's po.sition on the freshman team'and played interhall with Brownson, winning a place on the all-Hall team. This season "Duckj'-" did football sendee on the Varsity. He fought hard in every practice, he made the most important trips, and he won a monogram by playing a hard game against Haskell. Those who saw Holmes bowl over the red­skins on Cartier Field are confident that he can fill a linesman's position on any team in the country. The presence of such stars as Lathrop and Jones kept "Ducky" on the bench most of the time but he will return for two more sea­sons and will have a chance to win a regular berth. . 
THE RESERVES. 

Lack of space prevents us from doing justice to the men who worked with the team all year but were not fortunate enough to win monograms. Yet their work deserves great 
•praise
 for they took the kicks and cuffs of the Varsity all year without sharing in the actual glory of conflict. Theirs was no small part in developing the team. Of these men, Hugh O'Donnell, centre, Gilbert Ward, guard. Art Sharp, tackle, -HolHs King, end and Voelkers, guard, were taken on someof the trips. O'Don­nell made every trip and was ^ used against Carhsle and South Dakota. Every fan knew that Hugh could fill "Fitz's" place.whenever 

•
 it became necessary but it was seldoni neces­sary. We hope to see O'Donnell win a mono­gram next year. Sharp and Ward worked in the line and were of about equal merit. Bach was used-a number of times and both wiU return next year to try to fill regular positions. Voelkers showed well in the early part of the year and made the Yale trip. He was not given a chance in the latter part of the season. King played both tackle and end, although the latter is his natural position. He made the Yale and South Dakota trips. Odam and Beh did good work in the Hue. 


Behind the line, nine men won monograms and substitutes were given little chance. John Miller showed fine promise at fullback and will be a Hkely candidate for that position next year. Miller scored two touchdowns against Rose Poly. George Kowalski worked at half all year but a new man had little chance among our many star halfbacks. To every man who was on the squad we extend our thanks and oiuT/best wishes for future success. 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
The Game of Life. 
came upon life's football field. They were a varied crowd. The bleecliers of the world were filled, The cheers were long and loud; And all were there, the foul and fair, The humble and the proud. 
The referee lined up the men. The tackles and the guards. 
The linesman with his telling ta]:e Was quick to count the yards. And vict'ry old was there with gold 
For prizes and awards. 
The whistle blew and at the crash Some stood and others reeled. The weakest men all bruised and torn Were carried from the field. And in the test only the best Refused their ground to jneld. 
Oft did a plaj'er free himself From all who stood around, And start for the long-hoped-for goal With a most ardent bound. But diving low a watchful foe Would bring him to the ground. 
And so the game went on until . From out the crowd there came A man who wore the gold and blue 
Of loyal Notre Dame, And as he dashed, his N. D. flashed And sparkled like a'flame. 
The people in the stand arose, It was a sight to see; T heard a group of rooters give A rousing U. N. D., And as it died, it echoed wide A crv of victorv. 7". Ilanner. 
FRESHMEN 
Freshman Football. 

If. you are, downhearted when you think of next year's football prospects, it is because you^ are facing .the wrong way. Don't look at the men who are: graduating but turn around and look at the bunch that is coming in—^that Freshman Team^and if you don't smile in cohtentment it, is because you have eaten 
 TEAM. 
supper out at school and not because of the football outlook. 
We have Callahan, Miller, Whalen, Malone, Wolfe, Ryan and Mclnerny to head the list, with some more good men right behind them, who after the year's work under Coaches  Gargen and Henehan are ready to jump in  and make a lively fight for regular positions  on the Varsity next year. 
fHE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
This ^'^ear^s team, according to able men who 

saw them work, could have defeated any 
secondary college team in the country, and 
was far better than any freshman team any of 
these men saw in action. They defeated Culver 
12 to o in their onl}'- outside game and in the 
scrimmages with the Varsity, which averaged 
three times a week, the upper class men never 
scored over 20 points. One night, with the-
aid of Rockne, the Freshies piled up 24 points 
on the Varsit)'', which is no easy task. 
The men are all good fighters and are full 
of "pep," especially Walter Miller who gives 
a war cry when running interference or carrying 
the ball. The fight displayed by the men was 
phenomenal, for getting run over by Eich and 
Bachman and others, daj'^ after da}'" during 
the whole season would be about enough to 
take the spirit out of any good army; but 
the freshies stood it and seemed to like it, for 
the only men to quit were the injured ones 
who couldn't help it. A large number of men 
were on hand every day and all deserve all 
the praise in the world. 
At the Ends Ryan and Wolfe did the heaviest part of the work, and showed Varsity form; the other men alternating with them were, Cook, Spalding, and Whipple. 
At Tackles, Mclnerny and R^j-an were the regulars- with Rauth, De Gree and Dixon for utility. 
At Guards, Jones and Franz, held the posi­tions aided by Ellis and Ahearn as substitutes. 
At Centre were three good men, the best of whom was Callahan, a truly wonderful lineman who will- undoubtedly have a Varsity line position next year. When "Cal" was hurt Hoffman filled in well with McMann helping him out. 
The Quarterbacks were Mathews and Joe Dorais,- both good men, but there was another man, Phelan, who was hurt at the first of the . season who will give them a fight for the Varsit}'- pivot position in 1915. 
At the Halves there were three brilliant men. Miller, Whalen and Malone, but Jones, Fitzgerald, and Slackford were not far behind them. 
The regular fullback was a big Rydewski, one of the biggest of the giants on the team, and Ivawbaugh worked as a sub. 
The team was given a banquet and theatre party at the end of the season, and it was announced that twenty-tliree of the men would be awarded jerseys with the class numerals. 
This is the custom of other schools using the 
three-year rule, but it is the first time this 
has been done at Notre Dame. 
Games are hard to arrange for Freshman 
teams because they are too strong for high-
schools teams and there is no glory for a secon­
dary college team in playing them, so let us 
hope we can get games with other Freshman 
teams in the near future. This year the other 
teams must have seen our 1918 team in action, 
for though Coach Gargen tried ever}rwhere 
from coast to coast, he could land only one 
game. Louis Keijer. 
The Inter-Hall Season. 

While the Inter-Hall season of 1914 began 
under rather favorable auspices, it was not as 
satisfactory as it should have been. Owing 
to bad weather conditions it was impossible 
to complete the schedule which had been 
mapped out, and the silver trophy donated 
by Messrs. Calnon and Hull was not awarded. 
It has been decided not to pick an all-Interhall team for the year because of the fact that there were not enough games played on which to base an opinion as to the relative merits of the various players. However, there were some men whose work was of an excep­tional character throughout, and who look like promising material for the 1915 Varsity. 
Jones of Brownson, Ryan of Corby, Calla-­ghan of Brownson, Phelan--of Saint Joseph, Grady of Walsh, and Carmody and CuUigan of Sorin were the stars of their respective teams. 
Jones is without doubt one of the-best guards developed of recent years in InterhaU. His, work was steady and consistent, and he seems to have acquired a great deal of the science which so distinguished his Varsity namesake. Callahan, the Brownson centre was an able teammate for Jones, and judging from his work this year, he will be a strong contender for Varsity honors next season. Cline of Brownson was a valuable man as were also EUis, Malone and Rydzewski. 
St. Joseph had a number of good men, chief among whom were Phelan and Bartel. The former was probably the best quarterback in Interhall, while as for Bartel there is no necessity for comment. He was the main •, stay of the Saint's line, and- played a hard steady game on all occasions. 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Corb3''s team was a leading contestant, 
rather owing to their machine-like pla^dng 
than to indi^'idual effort. The}- had a number 
of exceptional men such as Bergman, Ryan, 
Dal}'^, Whalen, Fit'zgerald, and Corcoran, but 
the biggest factor of their work was their abilit}' 
to pla}^ together and the excellent interference 
of their backfield. Ryan at end was the best 
man on the team. He plaj-ed an exceptional^ 
strong game at all times, his tackles -were low 
and hard, and his ^.vay of smashing opposing 
interference featured ever}'- game he played 
in. If his ability in Interhall can be taken as a 
criterion, Ryan will have a good chance of 
landing a bertli on the Varsity during the next 
few years. 
Walsh did not live up to expectations this year, but tlie South Siders were badty handi­capped from lack of material. Their showing was ver}- poor in the first games, but in their last game against Brownson they put up an excellent exhibition, and the}'- deserve credit for the fighting spirit which made them work just as hard in their last game after all hope for the championship was gone, as they did in the first. Grady, O'Neil, and Jones were her best men. 
Sorin had one of the best teams of late years in Interhall football. Their w'ork was featured by the sensational playing of Culligan and Carmod}', but they had a well organized team as well as the indi^'idual stars. Other Sorin men who did good w^ork were Franz, Mooney, Stack and Mathews. 
The Student Vaudeville. 
It is indubitable that we owe a monument, if not of bi-onze or onyx; then at least of grati­tude and praise to Professor J. M. Riddle, "ftrho, with his cordon of efficient laborers, is responsible for the renaissance of that ancient and genial form' of entertainment—Student VaiideAdlle: Like another'David Belasco, he has built lip a super!) performance, which, from the sleuth-songs of J. Pinkerton C, who dreamt he was making a touchdown, to the'Carlisle - Notre Dame pictiires which really did, was" uniformly ludicrous. We haven't space to inehtion an}Hhing save the successful dancing of Eddie Mann, and the combination of dress-suits,'ragtime, and acting wliich won, such merited applause foi" Riley and Sexton. 
Of course there was "Rupe" Mills' own pajama scene, Mike Carmody's "chewing-gum" and the instruments Manavio did not pla}^. All in all it was a memorable success, even if Wildman and Kane were unavoidably restrained from telling the joke about the prodigal son. 
Safety Valve. 
ECHOES OF EXAMS. 
"The origin of the drama was in the basement of 
a church." 
"Shakespeare wrote 'Two Gentlemen of Peruna'." 
"The guilds produced plays which were partly 
funny and partlj"^ good." 
"The Anglo-Saxons were exposed to the fresh 
air. This made them war-like." 
"Their form of verse was illiterate." 
"Eight lines were iambic pentigon." 
"Thej'' were .surrounded in front by water and in 

the rear by wilderness." 
"An early English writer, the Honorable Bede." 
** * 
WITH APOLOGIES TO ELLA WHEELER WILCOX. 
It's easy to smile and be merry, When life with enjoyment seems young. But the man worth while, is the man who can smile When he faces a supper of tongue. A. L. M. 
** * 
THE FOOT AND MOUTH VAUDEVILLE. 
{By the. VALVE Reporter.) 
Nine rahs for Steve Burns, the hero of the hour! 

Steve was accompanist for nearly every number in 
last vSaturday night's vaudeville. We heard that 
program once only, -and immediately sent in our 
application for an Iron Cross and a Nobel prize and 
had our name cancelled from the lists of the Prohi­
bition Party. ^ Steve heard those numbers day after 
day, and when last seen was still alive. No purse 
of gold was rammed into his mitt when the show 
was over, but when the world's last movie is unreeled 
and the horses drowned in the lake rise up and 
give us the laugh and the uncrowned heroes "of time 
come in for their shining headgear, Steve's dome 
ought then to be lit up like Mishawaka . on a frostj"^ 
night. We're for you, Steve. 
What is to be said of the performance itself? Per­.haps the less said-the safer. 
Mr. Mann was a lady and laddie and broth of a 

boy all in one, easy and only choice for first honors. 
Mr. Riley and- his accomplice earned their reward. 
If a booby prize were given," it should have gone to 

the student audience. Their performance was easily 
the worst of the evening. Yet this is not to deny 
the more cheerful of the stage performers their fair 
share of odium, no, not by a damsite. ­
One historic question this night's perversion 

answered. We knovy now "where are the snows of 
yesteryear.'- They are the slush of to-day. 
It's a long,-long ^way to Cecil Birder and farther 

still to George Lynch, but our memories are there. 





—a-^ 
3"-'^­
Cb 

Dotrc Dame Scholastic 
D15Ce-9VASl-5£mP6R-VlCTVR\/S-• VIVG-QVASI-CRAS-MOieiTURV/S­
VOL. XLIX. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER II, 191 = No., 14. 
The Team. 
BY EUGENE MCBRIDE. 
"TH E season is o'er and the Team home once more From fields where they've fought and they've won And they've all crept away in the old modest way. To talk o'er the deeds they have done. 
( 

No thund'rous applause, or def'ning hurrah's They strove with the best in the South andthe West, Were waiting them when they returned. In the East they repaid an old score. . \ , .­In modest affright, they came in- the night, In manner so true, the old Gold and Blue. . ^ . And shrank from the praise they had earned. They raised to the prestige of yore. . ' 
And it oughtn't to count—these scores that they mount Or yet that they lost but one game— The one thing that ought, is the fact that they fought To the finish for old Notre Dame. 
Well, we didn't turn out "with deafening shout" . But we'll bet our hand that they understand. As the newspapers usu'Uy quotes. As they grasp ev'ry loyal old palm; We came to them then, and chuckled:—"Well, men I Each yell that we raise is a paen of praise, And then something rose in our throats. ' And ev'ry hand-clasp is a psalm. 
For 'twould be the same, if they'd lost every game. If never a laurel they'd won. Their Mother at home would smile from her Dome, On the deeds of .each warrior son. ' 
2IO THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
The Varsity of Other Days. 
The tired old world moves on apace, and the wand of progress rests with the same easy familiarity upon the sturdy shoulder of the football hero, as it does upon the motor car, the aeroplane and the telephone. All former models are giving way to new and better ones. Notre Dame's football history is a chronicle of glorious achievement, yet there are those little details that compel a smile that often trespasses upon the expansion allotted to a broad grin. Imagine, if you can, the Michigan team of 1915 giving Notre Dame a few minutes of preliminary practice before 

staging the regular clash. You smile broadly, no doubt, and with excellent reason. Yet that is what the JMichigan Varsity of 'S6 had to do before Notre Dame's neoph}i:e eleven felt that it knew enough about the game to proceed with the contest. After watching the visitors play a few minutes, the local lads began to have certain inklings appertaining thereto, and the battle that ensued with the Gold and Blue's volunteer eleven, although a one-sided win for Michigan, was a good showing for the local's extemporaneous endeavor. 
B}' 1888 the game had taken root here, and was in flourishing condition. An Omaha paper recently ran a picture of the Varsity eleven that battled for Notre Dame's athletic prestige almost thirty years ago. Gene Melady, now a well-known business man of Omaha, played tackle on what was then significantly designated as the "rush" line, and his reminiscences will, no doubt, arouse a train of memories in the minds of many a Notre Dame alumnus. Mus­taches were in fashion in those days, and the uniform consisted of pants and jacket, almost as substantial in cut and texture as a present day basketball uniform. 
The flying wedge was the most approved style of play. Melady was the lightest man on the team, weighing only 175 pounds. The wedge w^as a sort of compromise between a steam roller and a 42-centimetre shell. No "overhead" game for the. Varsity of other days. The principle of the old style of "rush" pla}'' was not to evade, or elude, but to over­whelm and exterminate. The center was under no particular obligation to pass the ball. When the spirit moved him he started through himself, with the entire team concentrating its 
weight and enthusiasm in the small of his back. The other team, meantime was concentrating such weight and retaliatory zeal as it could muster in the pit of his stomach. 
Sometimes the opposing line gave way. More frequently, however, it was the sandwiched centers' spine or diaphragm that yielded. Notre Dame was much given to annual contests with the Physicians and Surgeons of Rush Medical. The score always went democratic, so the only purpose the Irishmen must have had in engaging their easily vanquished foes, was ready medical talent when a center was 
ground to atoms between the upper and nether millstones of "rush" aggression. 
Harry Jewett, considered the fastest man on the team, retained in after life, his pre­dilection for things speedy, and is at present the head of the organization that manufactures Paige - Detroit Motor Cars. Notre Dame's Eighty-Eight team defeated all opponents that year in a style of football that combined every­thing from rugby through to a clinical demon­stration of the survival of the fittest. Melady says that the game is gentler now than then. He points out that it is even considered bad form nowadays for more than seven men to stand on a prostrate player at one time. But 
in the good old golden era, no football star ever felt comfortable enmeshed in the mixing unless he was under three times as many, or standing on the crest of a pile of sardined combatants ten feet high. 
vSkill no doubt had something to ^do with the triumphs of the eighties and -nineties. But skill was never permitted to sneak into the limelight along with weight, blood-thirstiness and an earnest ambition to trample the opposing eleven deep into the torn sod. The path to a touchdown in the old days of center rushes and mustached heroes, was not Jaround or through the opponent's line. It was over it, and not by the "air route" either. The trium­phant registrar of winning tallies marched to victor}'' over the prostrate wishbones of the line that had interfered with the oncoming wedge, not wisely, but with direful results. In the absence of Joe Gargen and that dolorous chant, " Holdemsonsofnotredameh-o-o-ol-d-e-m" the atmosphere was otherwise rent and the spectators made miserable, by the dull crunch 
of breaking groans, and the occasional dull "boom" of a luckless player exploding between the impact of two tons of charging beef. 
4­

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 2TI 
x: 
o 
•J-. 
O n 

The 1915 Football Season. 
While Joe Dorais stood in the center of Rice Field on the afternoon of November 27th with arms outstretched to receive a Rice punt, Referee Ouigley blew one shrill blast on his whistle and Notre Dame's 1915 football season had passed into historj'-. It is with mingled feelings of pride and sorrow that we come now to • re\dew in brief the achievements of the 
•L 
last few weeks,—sorrow because many of us have experienced for the last time the sensation that our classmates are battling for us on the 
gridiron; pride because our  team  has  left  
behind it a record that is  rich  with  real  
achievements.  
The beginning of the 1915  
season reaU}'- dates back to  
this time last 3'-ear when we  
first began to realize that  
Eichenlaub, Jones, Finegan,  
Kelleher, Pliska, Duggan,  
Berger, Mills and Bergman,  
nine of the greatest men who  
ever wore football shoes, had  
pla3''ed their last game for  
Notre Dame. With the reali­ 
zation that these men would  
be missing, we looked for­ 
ward to the 1915 season with  
a despair so complete that it  
amoimted almost -to fear.  
As the winter months passed,  
the situation was canvassed  
a thousand times by ever}'^  
loyal supporter of • Notre  
Dame, and still there was  


JESSE HARPER, COACH 
\ 
V' 
/^< 
•v.-. 
no hope. ^ Then the schedule 

- was announced,—one of the hardest that a Notre Dame team has ever faced. Our doom seemed sealed. 
No one realized the desperate situation better than Jesse Harper, the man behind Notre Dame's athletics. Harper realized that there was just one solution of the difficulty,— work./ Work was begun at the earliest possible moment.-.Winter was scarcely oyer when the football,squad was,called out and-turned over to Luke Kelly, Coach of the'Hol}'-;Gross ^eyeh; worst defects soon began to disappear. But summer came on quickl}'- and the warm weather put an end to football when the work was only begun. 
There was *&. lapse in the work until September, and 3'et not a complete lapse, for while the pla^'-ers had scattered to all parts of the country the coaches must have taken no yacation. For when Captain Fitzgerald led the 1915 football squad on to Cartier Field last Septem­ber, Coaches Harper and Rockne were waiting with as fine a set of plays as any team has ever used. But the task of finding men who could execute these plays still remained. Calla­han, Culligan, Ryan and Whelan, four of last year's freshmen who had shown great promise, 
failed to return. Larkin and Lathrop, monogram men who were eligible for another year of football, were among the missing. Only the remnant of a line remained and the backfield situation was even worse. But the men seemed to realize that Notre Dame's reputation hung in the bal­aiice, and they went to work with . a splendid spirit that was bound to bring results. Every man was given a chance by the coaches. No combination of players was left untried. 
Three weeks of' practice were soon over and the open­ing game of the season was at hand. The Varsit}'- faced 

Alma with Rydzewski at center, the veteran Keefe and Captain Fitz­gerald at guards, Stephan and "Hoot" King at tackles, Elward and Baujan on the ends, Bergman at . quarter^ Bachman at fullback and Cofall and . Malone at the halfbacks. After seeing the Alma ;ganie we were con^anced that our worst fears were about to be realized. Seldom has a;N.otre Dame team given such a sorry' - exhibition of the great college sport. Alma fought every inch of-the ground, and it 
 was only after, ai- hard' fight 'that the regulars 
who spent ttljejpastyeiar stud5ang la,W; at .Notr&.;/;:were able W.,score tiurteenvpoints/zin the first 
Dame.^-Historyihas :prbyei:thate.th&^m 
reported to Kelly were good men, but at that but the team, as a whole, played miserably. time they were certainl)'- green. Kelly worked Tieonly bright spot, of the day came in the jTke .a demon;' and. he secured results. The last quarter when Coach Harper sent his second 

THE N'OTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
backfield into the game. Phelan at quarter Westerners off 'their feet. The ball was in and John Miller at full showed the 'form that Nebraska's territory at least two-thirds of was to make them two of our most valuable the time; the Notre Dame backs were able to backs. Owing to the good work of these men gain with ease. But disastrous penalties coming the final score was 32 to o against Alma. after our best gains set the splendid work of 
After the Alma game the rooters sat moodily pur backfield at. naught, and the Nebraskans in their rooms awaiting the deluge; but Harper were able to find a weak spot in the Notre had only begun to fight. Every weak spot in Dame defense—our inability to check the the play had been noted in that opening game, . forward pass. Forward passes and the fine and it was a vastly improved team that took playing of Chamberlain, Nebraska's star end, the field against Haskell on October 9th. account for the three touchdowns scored by Hugh O'Donnell had recovered from injuries, the Cornhuskers- After Nebraska had the that kept him out of the Alma game and game apparently won, Notre Dame came back replaced R3'-dzewski at center. Mclnemy with a spectacular attack which fell but one started the game at tackle in place of King. point sh)'- of tying the score and which woidd while Phelan went to quarter in the place of have surely turned the tide of battle had there-Bergman, who was shifted to halfback. The been a few more minutes of play, new combination worked so well that the After the splendid showing of the Varsity gloom that. had hung over us against Nebraska, South Dakota for five months was dispelled was expected to prove a rather in less than five minutes. Has­easy opponent. The Coyotes kell presented a formidable line­were, however, anything but up, and the Indians were easy. In order to keep his especially pointed for the Notre stars in shape for the Army Dame game. However, they game. Harper started the South were powerless before the Dakota ttlt with Jones, Eling onslaughts of Cofall, Bachman and Whipple in the line and and Bergman. O'Donnell and Miller and Malone in the back-Stephan played brilliantly in field. The second string men the line, and the team showed had little difficulty in checking such vast improvement that the South Dakota offense, but the big games of the season they were unable to score them­were no longer feared. selves. Miller's line plunging, 
After the Haskell game two featured in- the first half. Be­KNUTE ROCKNE, ASST. COACH 
weeks were spent in desperate tween • halves Cofall, Stephan, efi'orts to whip the team, into shape for the Bachman and .Elward warmed up and they Nebraska game. Scrimmage with the freshmen were shot into the fray at the start of the second was an almost daily occurrence. Rockne worked half. Stni the Coyotes kept fighting, and the wonders with the line during those two weeks. third quarter was almost over before the Rydzewski. was shifted from .center, where Varsit3'''s most effective play,—the famous O'Donnell was playing in faultless style to Cofall-to-Bergman criss-cross,—sent "Little­tackle. There "Big Frank" played a much Dutch" over for a touchdown, the only score . 
.; improved game and was chosen to start against of the game. The poor form displayed in this the Cornhuskers. El ward and Baujan developed game can undoubtedly be attributed to the beyond the expectations of their most ardent natural reaction that was bound to follow the admirers. Best of all, the men went into the hard Nebraska conflict. Nebraska game knowing that it would take . The greatest factory of the year was scored the best that was in them to win. There was at West Point on November 6th. The Army no_ false confidence; instead there.was a grim team has come to regard the Notre Dame game determination. as second only to the Navy game in importance In one of the best football games ever seen and as second to none in difiSculty. This year's in the West, Nebraska defeated. Notre Dame, renewal of the greatest of all the intersectional. 20 to 19. The defeat was a-.peculiar one. .-On classics was quite as spectacular as either of straight football Notre Dame swept, .the the-two preceding games between the Army 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
and Notre Dame. Each team had one victory to its credit and each was anxious to "make it two out of tliree." The injury to "Ducky" Holmes, who suffered a broken leg just three days before the game, was a severe blow to Notre Dame, as the veteran tackle was just rounding into shape and he Avas expected to play a prominent part in the defense against the West Pointers. In this case, as at all times throughout the season, the team showed a marvellous abilit}'^ to overcome difficulties. The men placed the Army on the defensive from the very start with a smashing attack that the Cadets had great difficult}' in solving. Time after time the ball was advanced within the Army's tliirty-yard line only to have the Arm}' put up a stubborn defense that prevented scoring. Thrice Cofall tried to boot a goal 
from the field. Two of the kicks were partially blocked and the third was carried wide of the goal-posts by the wind. The last quarter arrived and a scoreless tie seemed certain. Then the Army succeeded in getting possession of the ball on Notre Dame's 48-yard line from whence Oliphant, the Cadets' greatest star, attempted a place kick. The ball was aimed squarely, but the kick was just an inch short, for the ball struck the bar across the goal posts and bounded back into the field. This narrow escape seemed to rouse all the fighting spirit in our men. Starting from their own 20-yard line with but a few moments to play they covered the eight}'" yards that separated them from tlie Army goal in just three plays. First, Cofall tore around the Army's end for twenty-seven yards; then Bergman hit the line for a short gain. The next pla}'' was the most sensa­tional of the game. On a punt formation Cofall dropped back to his own 45-yard line where he received the ball on a direct pass from O'Don­nell. Then he shot the ball twenty-five yards down the field where it landed in the arms of Bergman who was fairly flying down the field. Needless to say there was no one on the Army team who could overtake the "I^ittle Dutch­man" before he had registered a touchdown. Cofall kicked an easy goal, and Notre Dame had vanquished the Army, 7 to o. 
Mtex the Army game the Varsity was never pushed; • Greighton proved an easy victim at Omaha on November 13th, the final score being. 41- to p.- The game was featured by the-spectacular 5 work - of Cofall and John Miller in the backfield. -The Creighton fans felt 
¥ 
greatly relieved when Miller replaced Cofall, but John was just as good as "the good-looking demon," which is Nebraska's idea of Cofall. Bachman, too, was in the midst of the fray, making" many long gains. Every one of the twent}''-two men who were taken on the trip got a chance to play and each proved himself worthy of the chance. The interference run­ning in this game was splendid, as was also the generalship of Phelan and Dorais. The ability of the linemen was well displayed when Creighton recovered a fumble on Notre Dame's I-yard line and was unable to put the ball over in four attempts. We have no doubt that Omaha fans will long remember the visit of our team to their city. 
The invasion of Texas formed a fitting climax' for the season. The entire squad was taken to Chicago on November 20th to see the Chicago Illinois game and incidentally to give the Conference stars the "merry rawz." After the game George Hull and Michael Calnon, two of our most loyal supporters, were hosts to the squad at a splendid banquet at the Hotel LaSalle. The next day Coach Harper and twenty-three of his men, accompanied by Father Farley, "Hullie" and "Mike," boarded the -rattler and were off for the Southland. The team whipped the Texans so decisively that it seems a shame that they were not sent on down to Mexico to clean up that Republic's many fighters. 
The Thanksgiving Day game with Texas University was not as easy as the score indicates. The Longhorns were well prepared and put up a stubborn fight. However, it has •r­become a tradition for the Notre Dame team to make a splendid showing at the close of the season; and the 1915 team did not violate the tradition. The Eonghorns were smothered to the tune of 36 to 7, and two days later the Rice Institute Owls were buried under a 55 to 2 score. The entire Notre Dame team starred in both games. The Fitzgerald-O'Donnell-Keefe combination in the center of the line, worked like a German army, while the "Irish" 
^ 
backs never failed to gain when a" gain was really necessary. In the Texas-game Bergman broke into the hieadlines with a 65-yard sprint for a touchdown. Cofall had to be content with: short .gains in this game, his best effort being some eighty yards in three attempts. _However, it:was;in the Rice ;gamie that '' Stan'' really surprised the natives. Rice played a 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
criticised early in the season unjustly, and his 
ignoring the injury to his feelings in an effort 
to better himself in his position showed the 
character of his work and his character as a 
man. He was out to help in the making of a 
good team and he did his best. His success 
would be seen in telling over the stories of 
the line gains of the past season. Charlie's 
track ability helped him wonderfully in develop­
ing himself into a fullback, for he was particu­
larly good at starting fast, and the speed he 
showed this season would be hard to find in 
anothei: man of his size and weight. This 
is Bachman's second year on the team; so 
we expect big things from him next season. 
HARRY C. BAUJAN, End. 
The only other veteran on the team was 

Baujan who played end last year alternating 
with Mills. Harr}'' had an exceptionally good 
year this season, and was strong on both defense 
and offense. His catching of the passes, his 
speed and his tackling ability, rank him with 
the best; for no team was able to make gains 
around either end and some of the teams 
•encountered, made this feature their main asset; but when they tried their end running on Notre Dame, they found good men at both posts who could stop the onslaught as many times as it was tried. Butch is a good running mate for Elward; for both play the same hard, consistent game on the defense and both are about equal at catching passes. Butch is ver}' fast, and he uses more than ordinar}' care in getting himself in condition, and consequently is never out of the game on account of injuries. 
HUGH O'DONNELL, Center. Probably the best of the new men on the team as a regular is O'Donnell, the peppery center who added a world of strength to the Varsity this year. Hugh was a sub last season, but this year he is spoken of as one of those who starred. He not only- made the team, he made it better by his presence, and there are few centers anywhere who can compare with him. Again his lack of years kept him from being noticed, but the man he outplayed at the Army game is heralded as one of the greatest in the country. The inexperience of O'Donnell on the team as a regular ought to add to his achievement instead of detracting from it, for he made himself a star in a short time. At the first of the year he was impeded by injuries, but he refused to stay out of the work, and as a result he was hurt "time and again, 
but he finally recovered, and the last half of the season he was in good shape for all the games, and the write-ups showed that he was in the game the whole time. At Texas the papers said the holes opened up in the center of the. "Long Horns'" line were large enough to drive' drays through, which speaks well for the center of the Varsity line. 
DUTCH BERGMAN, Halfback. 

Arthur Bergman stepped into the shoes of_ his big brother this year and came as close to filling them as anyone possibly could, and that is saying a great deal; for "Big Dutch" was our only all-Western man last year and he won several games by himself. In this respect Al had little on Arthur, for more than once during the course of the season, the ball was given to him to shove over the line when an exceptionally large number of yards were needed to put it over, and nearly ever}' time 
EMMETT KEEFE. 

he turned the trick. His speed made it almost impossible for the opponents to get him after he once had a fairh' clear field. His big play was the criss-cross which he worked to perfection. This is his first year on the Varsity, and we cannot imagine what he will do the next two years. It looks as if even Walter Camp will have to put him on the all-American team. 
MERVIN J. PHELAN, Quarterback. 
The problem of finding a quarterback to fiU "Big Dutch" Bergman's place was one that bothered the. coaches'for some time before the season opened; but in the first few games, Phelan demonstrated what he could do in the Avay of handling the team, using his head, passing, kicking, and a few other things, and the position was no longer in doubt. Phelan first came to prominence in Interhall where he starred for St. Joseph by his kicking ability, .defeating some of the best teams. His passing has been good all year, and the wa}' in which he runs the team shows that he will be a valuable quarterback to next 3'ear's team and that of the years to follow. His head should make him one of the stars of the countr}^ in the near future. 
FRANK RYDZEWSKI, Tackle. 
"Big Frank" graduated from the Freshman team of last year and this season held down the regular tackle position on the Varsity. At the first of the season Frank was slated for the center position, but O'Donnell showed up to so great an advantage- in the early games that Frank was shifted to tackle. Here he played all 3'^ear, upholding his side of the line to good advantage and time and again breaking through the opposing line to throw the backs for a loss. He has a powerful buUd and his inere strength alone makes him a valuable man to the team. He has two years more to pla)'' and in that time should develop into an excep­tional linesman. 
ARNOLD M . MCINERNY, Tackle. " • 
Mac is one of the biggest men who ever played on a Notre Dame team, tipping the beam so far. above the 200 mark that it.makes him nervous to think about it. He was in nearly all of the games and started some of them as it was hard to' select between'him and Frank. Mac is a hard worker, has almost unlimited power, and although exceptional!}'- tall, he is a,good tackier and a hard .man to play against. He did his share in the scoring of victories during the year, and his next two 3z:ears should be even more successful as he is practically 

•sure of a regular berth next year. JOHN MILLER, Halfback. As a substitute for Cofall it would be hard to get one better than John Miller, who 
^attracted great attention wherever he pla^^cd. At Creighton he advanced the ball over a hundred ^'•ards, and the Omaha papers gave him a big write-up, saying that when Cofall left the game the Creighton spirits rose only to be killed as soon as Miller was given the ball. Another game'in Avhich he got a chance was the South Dakota game when he ran through 
•and around the Coyotes at will. He is an exceptional • man, but there are two others on the team who- are sensations. He was on the squad last 3'-eaf and Avill make a strong bid for a regular place next season. 
GROVER MALONE, Halfback. 
Another halfback who showed ability this 

fall was Malone, who was very fast and a good 
ground gainer, but lost his position on the 
regular team to a more experienced man. It 
was Malone's first year, and this fact cost him 
the position, for he lacked a little of that which 
makes Varsity men,' and the position which 
at the beginning of the season seemed his 
went to an older man who was showing phe­
nomenal work. Malone is a great back and by 
next 5''ear should make the best of them hustle 
for his position. . 
GERALD JONES, Guard. 

•The
 presence of two star guards kept Jones from the regular team; for there are few men in the country who could beat out two men like Fitzgerald and Keefe, for -although a sub, Jones got a few chances and showed that he had the stuff that good linemen are made of. In the South Dakota game, Jones got a chance to show what was in him, and he certainty did; for he was through the line breaking up play 

•after
 pla}'" and opening wide holes for his own men to plow through. He played with the 

•Freshmen-last
 ^'•ear, and this year has shown such an improvement that we feel confident he will be a regular next season. 


HoLLis. KING, Tackle. 

•Another reserve who did his part in making the line what it was, was "Hoot" King, who substituted'for Stephan; the physical consti­tution of.the latter gave "Hoot" scarcely a chance, for Steve absolutel}^ refused to be laid out; and as a consequence King got few chances. He started the South Dakota. game, however, 
r' 
^ 

and showed his worth to the team. "Hoot" 
was on the squad last year for the first time, 
so he has another year to play. Next year he 
should make the first team. 
RAY C. WHIPPLE, End. 
Whipple was in much the same fix as the rest 
of the good substitutes; for he was fresh frora­
the first 3-ear team and had two excellent 
veterans to buck. He too got his big chance 
in the South Dakota game, and in this game 
displayed the ability which gave him his 
monogram, although while subbing in the games 
away from home he showed up well, especially 
on the defense. He is a hard tackier and keeps 
fighting the whole time, so it is hard for the 
best backs to get around him. He should 
prove a world beater next yeat. 
GEORGE HOLMES, Tackle. 
Although "Ducky" did not receive a mono­gram this year, he deserves to be considered with those who did receive them because he was kept from it by a broken leg, sustained in the middle of the season. Ever since then he has been confined to the hospital and will not be out for another week or so... This accident cast a veil of gloom over the season which was otherwise successful, and the, entire student body offers heartfelt' sympathy, to the man who suffered so much in fighting for his Alma Mater. No one ever doubted "Ducky's" football ability because he had already, won -a 
^monogram before this year. He was a depend­able man always on the aggressive and a con­sistent fighter. He would have won another monogram had he not met with the. injury. 
Besides the monogram men there are many others who aided in making the season a success ;. but because they were not quite as good as the regulars, they had to watch the games from the sidelines. The work done by these men is harder than that done by the regulars, , for they go out night after night to face a team of superiors, and the best they can hope for is a chance.to get in some gamfe for a few minutes. Their Avork is all hard work and no praise; so let us take this opportunity to express our appreciation of the sacrifices and of the real work done by the "subs" in doing their share in building up the tearn that met with so much success.. Those who deser:i^e mention are: Slackford, Franz, Yeager, Tom King, Dorais, F. Jones, Voelkers, DeGree, Ellis, W. Miller, Wolfe, Dickson, .Murphy, Andrees, Hardy, Cook and Beh. 
Emmett Keefe. 
I'H E N . D . line is mighty,'it's the source of all our glee. It's the wonder of the ages, makes us happy as can be. Brings the other team to sorrow and immerses it . • in grief. Because they can do little when we've got our Emmett Keefe. 
For Emmett's hitting hard and low, and Emmett's everywhere; He's plowin' through the enemy as if no one was there; The boys then give the "U. A'. D.," for Emmett's ripped a hole. To let the backs go dancin' through, and run off to the goal. 
Our Emmett sure is husky, but" he's modest as ' -a saint. When it comes to playin' football, you will find ' mg' \vhere he "ain't." I kno;\v",rve got my life insured, .but I-don't want to die, • -" I'd rather grace the bleachers and nine rahs for ; • Emmett cry: 
For Emmett's-here and Emmett's there,'he's always . :,• > • in.-the'fight:-. When N- D. wants to blast a hole, she needs no 
- dynamite. If she'll whisper soft to Emmett we will sigh in great relief;' • ' 
For we'll know just what is comin' and we'll . keep our eyes on Keefe. . '' 
John A. 'Lemmer. 


Fitzgerald. 
j-j E'S brought the bacon home to us. He's honored our good name. He's made the critics all look up— : Captain at Notre Dame! 
He's made the all-American; He's going!—'tis a shame. He's not to stay another year ^ Captain at Notre Dame. 
He's everything we want and need While football is a game. He's talked of iiow- from coast to coast. Captain at Notre Daine! 
D. E. Erpelding. 



THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
The Freshman Team. 

Old Deacon Jones has done many a good turn for Notre Dame, but nothing in his life here becomes him quite so much as his masterly handling of this year's youngsters. In the three years that have elapsed since the three-year rule went into effect, Notre Dame has been particularly fortunate in possessing some of the best green football timber in the land; see Yale's interest in our last year's squad. However, giving preceding teams their due, we doubt if there was ever gathered together on Carticr Field at one time before, so many ceding Saturday they had besieged Culver in their lair on Lake. Maxinkuckce and handed them the wrong end of a 35 to 6 score. On Thanks­giving Day, while the Varsity was taking the Longhorns into camp, they upheld our old prestige in Michigan territory by defeating Detroit University School 7 to o. The last score is by no means a fair measure of the work done in the game. The Freshmen's splendid interference and wonderful defensive work; the two brilliant runs of quarterback jMurphy for twenty-five yards each; the dashing attack of the backs, Fitzpatrick, AIcDermott and Miller, brought well-earned praise from the 
<> 

If: 
TH E 1915 FRESHMAN SQUAD. 
promising candidates for the Varsity as the aforementioned aggregation possesses. Some­how or other, they didn't turn out to be the "Horaces" and "Reginalds" that our stiff correspondent wrote of so pleasingly last September. Even had the}^ been as bad as painted, a few weeks of coaching by our old tackle would have turned them into stars. 
The}'' played onl}'' three games, but those games afforded us ample opportunity to detect their sterling worth and to prophesy for their future. On October loth they descended on the little town of Kankakee and battered St. Viator's to the tune of 27 to nix. On the pre-Detroit papers, and anything they hand us up in that section must be true. Just before the final whistle Murphy heaved a forward pass of twenty yards to Peaison who was downed on the five-3'-ard line just as time was called. 
The work of the Freshmen would speak for itself were there no SCHOLASTIC to give it fitting form in print, and for that reason we hesitate to chronicle their deeds, fearing to give too much praise to one and not enough to another member of the team. All three games were played on foreign fields, so we must depend on the newspaper reports of the various sections invaded, along with the scrimmages with the Varsity on Cartier Field Avhich we witnessed ourselves, in order to give credit where credit is due. We- will now cease to generalize and mention a few names. 
First and foremost, all hail to Fitzpatrick! Captain and left half of the team. Before coming to us he was given the position of all­jMichigan fullback in recognition of his Avork on the Alpena High School team. His red head, like the plume of Navarre, was the oriflamme of the team in every mi.\-up of the season. Always a good ground gainer and goal kicker he will undoubtedly prove a valuable addition to the Varsit}^ backfield next year. 
Miller, at fullback, was also a consistent line bucker and ground gainer. He will certainly live up to all that we expect of one bearing his name in the years to come. McDermott at right half was a worthv running mate for Fitz. Murphy, quarterback, Avas a huge success. His handling of the team AA-as entirely satisfactory, and his two runs of tAventy-fiA-e yards each in the Detroit game lead us to believe that Dorais and Phelan Avill haA'e an able substitute in '16. Pearson's AA-ork in the back­field AA'as consistent and at times sensational. Allison, right half, AA-as alAA'^ays ready to tear things up A\-hen Fitz shoAA'ed ennui, and O'Hare ditto for Miller. 
The line particularly shoAved the coaching of our former star tackle and Varsity captain. Let's start at the right and go doAvn. Thomas, right 
"DEAK" 
end, ncA'cr seemed to be afflicted AA'ith 
hookAvorm throughout the season, but succeeded in stopping about ninety-eight per­cent of the men wdao essayed to sneak around his end. Whitteried at right tackle filled his position like a veteran. Zoia, right guard, played the game every minute and Avas equally good on defense and oifcnse. We expected big things of Coughlin at center, and were not disappointed. We now understand how he held the position of center on the all-Cook County team for two years. Jim Cook filled the position of left guard with the same easy freedom and happy smile that marks him on the campus. Andrews at left tackle proved an able linesman and will probably be Varsity material next vear. Berkey, left end, vied  with Thomas in keeping his end clear, and  played a good offensive game. Carey was an able substitute for Coughlin at center, and Meagher ditto for Thomas. Philbin, right tackle, will prove a terrible contender.for a line position on the Varsity. Along with his size he possesses the form and science of a true student of the game. Maddigan's injury, received early in  the season, kept him out of the big scraps,­but we witnessed enough of his work to realize that his football days at Notre Dame are not over. 

Well, that's about all we can say for them, man for man, because the space allotted will not permit us to be more explicit. If they feel 
the least bit disappointed, let them turn to the SCHOL.-VSTICS of former days and read the meagre write-ups of the greatest stars on our present Varsity. Then let them be solaced with the thought that thev are the Varsity men of to-morrow. 
We (speaking editorially) called on the "Rev. Jones" in his suite in Walsh Hall last Sunday at 10:00 
A. M., and requested an inter­view. Wiping the soap out of his eyes with a towel, he grinned and pleaded for mercy. All he would say was that the Freshmen team of this year is the host ever seen in these parts, and that he couldn't say anything that would mean half so much as their work on the field. He expressed entire satisfaction with the way they have co-operated with him and the manner in which they 

 JONES 
have handled themselves throughout 

FRESHMAN COACH 
the season. Outside of that, he gave  us permission to say whatever we liked, but we  came away feeling that not much else was left  to be said. The work of the Freshmen speaks  for them; far be it from our bungling pen to  add or detract one jot or tittle from the merit  they displayed or the praise that is due them  for the very successful season that they have  just gone through, winning our admiration,  If we said more, we might repeat and become  wearisome, so we rise, make our little bow,  and propose—The Freshmen of to-day—the  Varsity of to-morrow—may the}', in days to  come, fight for the colors of the old School  with the same loyalty and fervor that they  displayed in the season just ended. 
The Interhall Season. 
The Interhall football season just closed has been a most successful one. If for no other reason, it would be called a success because of the promising material it discovered and developed. But aside from that, some mighty good football Avas played; the games.were all warml)'' contested, and an interest keener than ever before was shown b}!- both players and fans. ,_ ; 
It must surely be admitted that some good football men were discovered in' the season which has just ended, rmxiy of them looming up as possible star material for the Varsity next year. If onl}'^ this has been accomplished, the league has certainly served a purpose. McGuire, the 3''0ung husky linesman of Walsh; McDermott, Klein and Coughlin of Corby; Miller of St. Joseph; Murphy of Brownson; Fitzpatrick of Sorin, and others all promise to make a hard fight for the Varsity eleven next year. This list is not complete as each hall had its share of stars. 
There was but one regret of the season and that was the oisbanding of the Sorin Hall team. The championship cup will be awarded to Brownson, but it seems that the Sorin • team, should be at least recognized in some way, since the}'- tied the strong Brownsonites early in the season. It is to be regretted that the eligibility rules forced this team out of the running as the)'- would undoubtedly, have been in the fight for the cup at the finish. 
In the first game of the season Sorin and Brownson fought to a 7 to 7 tie, the feature of the game being the.excellent work of Morales for Brownson, and the playing of Fitzpatrick, McGonneU and Corcoran for Sorin. On the afternoon of= the same day, St. Joseph held the strong Walsh team to a scoreless tie. Grady, for Walsh, proved his ability as a consistent ground gainer, while Freund and Andres of St. Joseph excelled in line plunges and long, end runs. 
A week later, outweighed to the man, Walsh went down to defeat before Brownson to the score * of 21. to, 9. . Walsh did not have her strongest line-up in; the game, which accormted for the large score piled up by.the Brownsonites. A pretty drop-kick from the 35-yard line by Pearson, of Walsh was easity the feature of .this game. He put the baU over from a difficult,­angle, and wiU be heard from next fall:when Varsity practice is started. ,The last two games , 

were fought on a field of mud and water, and the outcome might have been different had they been played on a dr}'-field. Brownson defeated Walsh. b}^ the score of 6 to o, and a week later, during a young cloudburst, nosed out Corby by the narrow margin of one touch­down, winning the championship. Brownson certainly had a good team which played con­sistent ball during aU the games, and deserves credit for its work. ­
The wealth of good material this year makes an all-star interhall selection extremel}'' difficult, but the following team was selected at a con­ference, consisting of all the coaches of the hall teams and three Varsity men, Cofall, Stephan 
<'*! 
and Fmmett Keefe. Jim Cook, Walsh Left End 
J. Gargan, Walsh Left Tackle Klein, Corb}' Left Guard Red McConnell, Sorin Center McCourt, Sorin Right Guard CraA^nEord, Walsh Right Tackle 
N. Barry, Brownson Right End Red. BroAvn, Walsh Quarterback 
,C. Beh, Corby Left Halfback Allison, Brownson Right Halfback Milieu, Corb)'-Fullback A word of explanation. ID many cases the 

ability of the men was so equal that to pick the best.man was almost impossible. There was much good end-material. Klein of Corby played a stellar game at that position, but his weight caused him to be picked as a guard. 
, Cook of Waish and Barry of Brownson were the two men selected to fill the end positions on this mj^thical eleven. They are fast, sure tacklers and both have mastered the knack of- receiving forward passes. McCourt was selected for the other guard. He is powerful, heav}'- andon.the off'ensive.is a world of strength. Gargan and CraAA^ord, both of Walsh, are the tackles. Gargan's position was cinched but - the many good linemen made the other selection difficult. However, - the place Avas giA'en to. CraAvford of Walsh AAdio played such a stellar game against Brownson and St. Joseph. -,The center position -AA'-as . the hardest one to fill, .not because of the lack of good men but because of. the number that Avere Avorthy of the honor. Each team was represented in the . list from AA^hich this teain AA^as chosen, but the 
.selection Avas finali)^. narroAA'-ed down to three, McKinne3'-:of; Walsh, Coughlin of Corby and McGohnell of Sorin. .The place AA^as given to 

THE NOTRE'DAME SCHOLASTIC 
McConnell. McKinney is a bit too light, but would have received -the position had it not been for the exceptional ability of the other two. Coughlin is a football player—there can be no doubt of that—but his real worth has not been tested. He is the better passer of the two, but McConnell is a more aggressive player. He is in on every play, and his presence in the game always enthuses fight and pep into the rest of the team. So he has been selected all-interhall center. Red Brown of Walsh was ' given the quarterback position over Murphy because of his superior generalship. Murphy is a better forward passer, but does' not run a team with the generalship and coolness of Brown. Allison was selected as right half. He is a good forward passer, a good open field runner and a demon at line plunging. The other halfback position was given to Carlton Beh of Corby. It has been pointed out that he was Varsity material and should not be considered on an interhall team, but nevertheless he is given a place in the backfield because of his kicking and his ability to make first downs whenever-called upon. The fullback position was never in doubt. Ward Miller of Corby was by far the best in the league, which does not mean that there were not other good men for this place. But Miller is a star of the first order and will give all a hard fight for the fullback position next fall. He has the driving power of an Eichenlaub combined with speed. 
This selection may not contain the stars of the interhall league, but it surely presents a well-balanced team, one equally strong on the defensive or offensive. It would be especially efficient at the open style of football. With such a strong line, Allison to hurl the passes, and two siich ends as Cook and Barry to receive them, the eleven should be an efficient scoring machine. 
Notre Dame—Incompaiable- and Unconquerable. 
You can talk about your colleges. Fair Harvard and old Yale; You can drink to poor old Michigan, In champagne or in ale. 
You can weep for dear Northwestern-She has never won a game; But we're satisfied to stay right here And plug for Notre Dame. 


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Entered as Second-Cluss Mail Matter. 

Published every Saturday during the School Term at THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Terms: $1:50 per Annum. Postpaid 

Address: THE EDITOR, NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Notre Dame, Indiana 
XLIX. DECEMBER ii, 1915 No. 14. 
Board of Editors. 

* TIMOTHY GALVIN, 'l 6 SPEER STRAHAN, '17 RAY HUMPHREYS, 'l6 LOUIS KEIFER, '16 EUGENE MCBRIDE, '16 D. EDMONDSON, '18 HOWARD PARKER, 'ij ARTHUR HUNTER, '16 
HARRY SCOTT, '18 


Varsity Football Banquet. 

At the Oliver Hotel -last Sunday evening the 1915 Football Season was officially closed. It was a fitting end to a very successful season and an event that .will be long remembered. fi. Coach . Harper had personal charge" of the affair and the same "pep" which has marked his work on the gridiron was brought to bear upon the conducting of the banquet. 
The event was characterized by the presence of the two loyal N. D. supporters, "Hullie" and ''Mike," and their brief but humorous remarks . brought considerable laughter from the guests. The outgoing members of the team, Captain Fitzgerald, Keefe and Elward, made their farewell remarks amid laughter and sorrow. Professor Benitz gave his usual toast, as also did Assistant Coach Rockne. During the time' that the "training table appetites" . were in their glory, music was furmshed by Messrs. Riley and Martin, and it is needless to remark that this line of entertainmeiit was well taken care of. 
To show their appreciation for the Coaches the Varsity squad, through the medium . of Captain Fitzgerald, presented : Harper and Rockne with a cigar-holder, cigar case and a box of cigars. 
After Cheer-Leader Gargan had~ led'the Squad members in giving cheers for Harper and Rockne, the monogram men adjourned to the adjoining room where they elected Donald Cofall to lead the Gold and Blue during the season of 1916.. 
This ended the festivities, and the 1915 season- was over. It was the consensus of opinion that it was "some season." 
22 6  THE  NOTRE  DAME  SCHOLASTIC  
Every  Kick  Is  a  Boost.  
Eight football games all in a row, Alma gets biffed,—seven games to go.  BY R.  M.  H.  Four games more,—we chuckle in glee, Creighton we clean,—now there's only three.  
Seven wee games still in the wa^-, Haskell snowed under,—six more to play.  Three games remain for N. D. U. Army crocked,—so now there's but two. ^"^-^^s- 

Six little games now left by heck, Nebraska and Ecky land on our neck! 
Five little games all yet in store. Coyotes defeated, now there's but four. 
Two little games,—both good as won, Texas croaks and that leaves but one. 
One little game left,—Sis, boom, bah! Rice digested,—Notre Dame, rah, rah, rah! 



THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Notes and Comments. 

The following interesting statement from our old friend, Mr. Fielding Yost, together with the comment thereon appeared in a recent edition of the South Bend Tribune: 
CITES N. D. AS EXAMPLE. In my opinion, teams using men four years should play only with teams following the same rule. The additional year makes a great deal of difference in the possibilities for a team. The case of Notre Dame helps make my point. Until two years ago, Notre Dame under the four-year rule was a dangerous adversary and defeated some very strong teams, including Yale and the Army. Last season Notre Dame adopted the three-year rule, barring first-year men, and since then she has not been heard from so- prominently. It surely makes a difference. 
(Editors' note: Mr. Yost is writing these articles for the Tribune under his own name, so we are forced to print the matter whether it is right or wrong. Dis­tinctly, Mr. Yost has wandered far from the facts in making his point on three-year athletics. It is to be conceded the four-j'ear schools have the advan­tage. There is no argument there. But to use Notre Dame to sharpen the point Mr. Yost shows regrettable ignorance of the football record and rules of one of the leading universities of the world. In the first place Notre Dame never defeated Yale. Her victories over the Army were both scored when the freshmen eligibility rule was in force; when she played Yale she observed the one-year residence rule, of course. As for Notre Dame losing her prominent place in football news, the fact remained that she outplayed the team which is regarded generally as the strongest in the West this year, Nebraska.) 
Mr. Yost is certainly deserving of criticism since such elementary ignorance of football history is unpardonable in a man of his standing. Pie is of course right in saying that "Notre Dame under the four-year rule was a dangerous adversary and defeated some ver>'­strong teams." As a splendid Illustration of this point, Mr. Yost might have referred to Notre Dame's victory over Michigan in '09. No matter how hazy his recollection of our other achieve­ments may be, we feel quite sure that Mr. Yost has not forgotten that victory. If Mr. Yost wants to demonstrate his point by showing how much weaker Notre Dame is with the three-year rule in force than she was before the rule was adopted, we suggest that he arraiige for a meeting between the 1916 Michigan and Notre Dame elevens. Since the Freshman rule was adopted at Notre Dame we have won five out of seven big intersectional games, thus .pre­
venting the East from establishing a definite claim to superiority, a claim that might well be based upon \'ictories of Eastern teams over Michigan. Certainly if Notre Dame is losing "her prominent place in football news," Michigan must have been long since relegated to oblivion. 
* 

As is customary at this time of the year, a number of all-star elevens have been chosen. Camp's all-American has not appeared as yet, but we have no doubt that Walter wiU display his usual generosity toward the West and especially toward Notre Dame by placing six or seven of our best men on his eleven. The all-American selected by the Detroit-Times honors Captain-elect Cofall with a position on the second team. The aU-American selected by Parke H. Davis, sport writer for the New York Herald, is a representative selection. His choice is as follows: 
ALL-AMERIC.-V ELEVEN. End M. N. Shelton, Cornell Tackle W. T. VanderGraaff, Alabama Guard C. Spears, Dartmouth Center R. H. Peck, Pittsburgh Guard F. Fitzgerald. Notre Dame Tackle Howard Buck, Wisconsin End Guy B. Chamberlain, Nebraska Quarterback Charles Barrett, Cornell Halfback E. W. Mahan, Harvard Halfback E. N. Mayer, Virginia Fullback E. H. Driggs, Princeton 
The Indianapolis N'ews for November 27th has the following dope: Another football season has passed into history, and once again comes the arduous duty of honoring football men who have . distinguished themselves on Indiana teams this season. The News has departed a bit from its custom this year, and its selection for places on the all-state and all-secondary teams is made by a number of football coaches, sport writers and others who have followed the game closely. The selections, therefore, represent the composite opinions of many and not the opinion of one. A short review of the football season is in order. Notre Dame gets first place because it has been defeated only once this season, and then by one point. It has played an unusually hard schedule; and that Harper's men should come victorious through a season when the first material looked anything but promising, is a credit both to tlie^ coach and the fighting spirit of the men. The game with Rice Institute to-day should be a victory for Notre Dame, if dope counts for anything. 
After some further comment on the showing of the various Indiana elevens and the ability 

228 THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
of their players, the A^ews selects the following all-State team: 
ALL-STATE Left End Elward, Notre Dame Left Tackle Blo'cker, Purdue Left Guard Keefe, Notre Dame Center . - Fitzgerald, Notre -Dame ^Right Guard Redmond, Indiana Right Tackle Cauldwell, Wabash Right End Stinchfield, Purdue Quarterback Pfohl, Wabash Left Halfback Cofall, Notre Dame Right Halfback -Pultz, Purdue Fullback Mackintosh, Indiana 
Indiana fans will be interested in the follow­ing comment from a recent edition of the Indianapolis Star: • • 
ALL-TIME, ALL-STATE ELEVEN. 

Blaine Patton, who has been in these parts much longer than the editor of this column, contributes the following first and second all-time, all-state foot­ball elevens: 
FIRST TEAM. 

Left End Rockne, Notre Dame Left Tackle I. Williams, Wabash Left Guard Fitzgerald, Notre Dame Center -. W'augh, Indiana Right Guard Blocker, Purdue Right Tackle C. Thomas, Butler Right End Elward, Notre Dame Quarterback Gill, Indiana Left Halfback Oliphant Purdue Right Halfback Spaulding, Wabash Fullback Eichenlaub, Notre Dame 
SECOND TBAM. 

Left End Tucker, DePauw Left Tackle Daly, Notre Dame Left Guard Sutherland, W^abash Center Feeney, Notre Dame Right Guard Routh,, Purdue Right Tackle, , W^inte^s, Indiana Right End * . .. -^ KruU, Purdue Quarterback •Hare, Indiana Left Halfback 5. - Salmon, Notre Dame Right Halfback Bergman, Notre Dame Fullback • • S. Thomas^ Purdue 
HONORABLE MENTION:—Studebaker, •'Glossup' and Pults, (Purdue); Dorais, -Hamilton and Vaughan (Notre Dame); Fleming, M. Erehart and Ed Davis (Indiana)';;j"Frunp, .Dague and Sprow (Wabash); France (Butler);" Garter (Rose: Poly). 
' A New.yorksppft'writer who'is apparehtl}'­afraid, tp,-disdpse\'his' real i who signs, himself •.''JDopeM/has, att^pted ..to rank,, the football teamsof; the entire country... IBasing. his ratings on; comparative -scores *he ^fanks .the teams of the'yarious sections .as: follows:; .;-. .­
East: Cornell, Pittsburgh, Harvard, Prince­ton, Syracuse, Dartmouth, Penn State, Wash­ington and Jefferson, Colgate, and Army. 
South: Georgetown, Virginia, Vanderbilt, Georgia Tech, Georgia, Auburn, Mississippi Aggies, Kentucky-, Alabama, and Louisiana. 
Midwest: Notre Dame, Minnesota, Illinois, Chicago, Wisconsin, Michigan Aggies, Michigan, Ohio State, Purdue, and Indiana. 
West: Nebraska, Oregon, Oregon Aggies, Washington ,State, Texas Aggies, Texas Uni­versit)'-, Oklahoma, Montana, Ames and South Dakota. 
"Old Man Dope" then throws all scores aside, and viewing the season as a whole, he gives a rating of what he consideres the twenty strongest teams in'the countr3^ He ranks the teams as follows: Harvard, Cornell, Princeton, Pittsburgh, Syracuse, Dartmouth, Penn 'State, Washington and Jefferson, Nebraska, Notre Dame, Colgate, Minnesota, Illinois, Army, Oregon, Oregon Aggies, Georgetown, Virginia, Brown, Yale and Penns5dvania. 
* * 
* 

Immediately upon his return from Texas; Coach Harper took charge of the basketball squad that .had been working out under the direction of Captain Daly. The Coach faces a difficult problem in building up a formidable five as onl}'" two of last year's monogram men are available: Captain Dal}'^ and Fitzgerald are' both men who have proved their worth in the past and they can be relied upon to give a good accoimt of themselves. The rest of the team is largely problematical as yet, although there are a number- of Sophomores of good 
.ability. •. •. . -. . Coach Harper has announced the following ' schedule for the. basketball team: : Decembe'r 15; Lewis Institute .at Notre Dame. 
.January 12,'Kalamazoo College at'JSTotre Dame. January 15, Lake Forest at. Notre Dame. January-19; Michigan Aggies at Notre Dame. Jantiary 22, Dubuque College at Notre Dame. 
. January 26, Kalamazoo, Normal at Notre Dame /. January 29, St; Ignatius at Notre Dame. ; February 2, "Michigan Aggies at Lansing. February, 5, Beloiit at Notre Dame. -. .'.Felpruary ;9,-St/, Viator's: at Notre Dame. . ... ­^February- li,'Wabash/.at\No^^^ FebruaryfJ8,,;,Wabash-at-Cra,wfordsville. , -.' 
J: February;,i9f. DePauw at Gfeencastle. , 
r)­
jFootbatt Vtv6t. 
Our Team, 
IMOW we ain't much at marbles. Croquet and all the rest. But jes' you mention football That's where we're at our best. 
That line of ourn's as strong as steel. An' full of fight and beef,— With Fitz, an' Hugh, an' Frank, an' Steve, An' trusty Emmett Keefe. 
Our fleet ends travel like a shot. An' Phelan's got a toe That boots that ball for sixty yards,— You'd ought to see 'er go. 
The way that Bach tears up a line Jes' makes us shout an' laugh. An' we ain't worryin' 'bout our speed When Dutch is playin' half. 

An' then we got a ''human whiz" In plucky Stan Cofall. > You think you're at a race when he Is carrying the ball. 
Our squad o' subs—a likely lot. Are coached in each detail; And-when they're put into a game. Good laws! They couldn't fail. 
We got some team, and coaches too. In Harper, an' old R.ock, Who sure can coach, although there ain't , No hair upon his block. 
Our rooters too, have never failed: Jes' keep that in your "domes," And one who rooted from his bed. Was "hard-luck Ducky" Holmes. . 
John Reuss. 
"Dutch." 

I was sittin' on the bleachers, a watchin' of the game Between those two big colleges. West Point and Notre 
Dame; A feller sat beside me, who was yellin' awful much, Regardin' all the players, specially the one called 
"Dutch." ­

He was just a little feller, but that didn't hinder him 'Cause he never hesitated, but went down the field with vim.' ' ' 
He would wiggle through an opening like a slipperjr conger eel, -, • With a bunch of other players, all a-stringin' at his heel. 
V. R. Helmen.. 
The Aftermath. 
The season of football is over. The bleachers forsaken and bare. The ' pigskin' consigned to its lockers. The uniforms waiting repair. The injured are now convalescing, ' The 'benched' are still nursing their grouch. And the monogram seekers are guessing Their chances—for more, I can vouch. 
Fitzgerald is now modestly blushing At the compliments paid to his skill. And Cofall, star half, is preparing The captainship next year to Sll. Then Keefe's getting ready to leave us. And Elward has got to go too. But Bach has a year yet to give us Some samples of what skill can do. 
Art;Bergman, O'Donnell and Baujan, And Stephan and Phelan and Frank— The future has crowns to bestow on These gallants of premier rank. So it's drink to the health of our big men And a rousing three cheers for the rest. With the wish that good fortune may give them: 
Her choicest and rarest and best.  i  
W. J.  Redmond:  
Our Irish Three.  

Our Irish three, our Irish three. 
How many a foe they've caused to flee. 
At Rice, West Point, and Creighton TJ. 
They made teams look a sickly crew. 
Who?—Emmett, and Fitz, and Hugh. 
Let critics choose their all-star crews, "Eckie" and Camp and the Evening News, From East and West and all the states. But these three men will top our slates— Who?—Emmett, and Fitz and Hugh. ­
Raymond W. Murray^ 
Just "Mai." 
Talkin' football rainy days 
'Bout the pep our team displays, AVhen we're passin' round the pjraise 
Ain't there someone we forget? 
He's the unassumin' kind. Always right there in the grind ;^ 
Grit like his is hard to find. 
We shall miss him, you can bet. 
Cbfall's sure a "heap big chief," Bachman wasn't any bluff. But our husky midget,"Mai," . \­
Well, nuf sed, " he's got the stuff," 
F. Jenning Vurpillai^ 



THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
"The Birth of a Nation." 
Through the extreme kindness of Mr. H. G. 

Summers of New- York City, Mr. H. E. Aitken, 
and Mr. D. W. GriflSith, the facultj'- was enabled 
to present "The Birth of a Nation" in Wash­
ington Hall, thus saving most of the students 
the price of a galler}'' perch at the OHver. 
Probabl)'' never in the history of the University 
were seats in the campus theatre so Hterall)'' 
fought over as on Fridaj'-morning, December 3rd. 
So much has been written and told about 

"The Birth of a Nation" that a detailed account 
of its splendors is unnecessarj'- here. And well 
that it is so, for we feel it to be vastly bej'-ond 
our power to express in words the feelings to 
which this wonderful spectacle gave rise within 
us. The gush of compassion succeeded the thrill 
of excitement; laugh followed sigh. Further­
more, such ones as found the tear of sympathy 
welling in their e3''es during the performance 
need not accuse themselves of softness. Such 
a combination of splendid photo-drama and 
stirring music would affect the most indifferent. 
How much is added to the total impression 
b)'' the efforts of the well-trained orchestra 
that travels with the film it would be impossible 
to estimate. 
"The Birth of a Nation" is an imposing panorama of the Civil War and Reconstruction periods of United States history, correct in every detail. Infinite care was used in the production of such scenes as Lincoln's assassi­na;tion and liee's surrender, and we see them on the screen exactl}?" as American annals narrate them. So realistically is the whole depicted that the interest never wavers. Tensely we watch the Ku Xlux Kllansmen gallop across the country to the rescue, while fair Beauty languishes in distress. With sinking hearts we see the personal bodyguard leave his post behind Lincoln's box, because we know what is to follow. Cheers rise to our lips as we witness the remnant of a gallant Confederate regiment charge hopelessly against their entrenched fellow-Aniericans. Entirely superfluous lumps find their way to our throats at the sight of a stricken mothier's repeated sacrifices for the Xost Cause. We leave the horrible glory of the ;battlefield to look upon the afflicted family -gathered at home to bieseech the Almighty's ,help for their loved ones in danger; or to 
mourn over the loss of one who lies alone on the 
battlefield, forever oblivious to War and its 
attendant sorrows. 
The cast of the picture is a noteworthy one, 
aU the important roles being well filled. On the 
program we find such well-known names as 
Henr}?" Walthall, as the dashing Southern 
colonel; LiUian Gish, Miriam Cooper, and 
Wallace Reid.~ The last-named actor's appear­
ance was short but crowded with action. He 
it was who handled ver}'' effectively a coterie 
of negroes in true William-Farnum style. 
Mae Marsh's appealingly pathetic portrayal 
of the little sister, who to save herself from 
dishonor found it sweet to enter the opal 
gates of Death, is, to oiu mind, one of the 
prominent features of the film. Other notable 
character dehneation are the roles of Mr. and 
Mrs. Cameron, Austin Stoneman, Silas Lynch, 
and L3''dia Brown. 
Truly every American should see "The Birth of a Nation." It has the power of stirring one to his most patriotic depths, as was Mdtnessed by the uncontrollable enthusiasm of the Notre Dame audience. Toward the crushed South we can feel nothing but honor for their sincerity, admiration for their struggle, and sympath}'" for their defeat. 
As an offset to any ill-feeHng that might arise against the negro race, the latter part of the picture gives us gHmpses of the work that is being done in various institutions toward educating a]?.d refining the emancipated African. We should also remember in this regard that the freedom-crazed slaves were supported and incited by the diaboHcal white men, known as carpet-baggers, who sought to further their own interests at the expense of nationality, reHgion, and all that man holds dear. 
"The Birth of a Nation" is America's answer to the charge that this countrj'" must go to Italy and George Elleine for its magnificent screen spectacles. • To the genius of D. W. Griffith we owe the most inspiring feat of photography in the history of animated pictures. His mind conceived the stupendous idea, his unlimited abiHty carried it out. Mr. Griffith is an artist in his line as much as any great -painter, sculptor, etc., ever was. The remark­able night battle scenes; the gathering of 

the clansmen; 
^i 



TEE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Local News. 
—^The Kansas Citj'- Club have chartered 

a club car on the C. and A. Ry.for their trip 
home at Christmas. 
—^The class in cartooning under Mr. O'Connor 

is proving to be voxj popular. Father Eugene 
Burke, C. S. C, is enrolled in the class. 
—The second and third degrees wUl be 

administered at the meeting of the local chapter 
of the K. of C. Sunday evening. Fort}'- can­
didates were recently given the first degree. 
—^The date for the Military Ball has been 

set and the work of preparation for this resur­
rected event is being actively and capabJy 
pushed under the direction of Kmmett Walter. 
—Brother Alphonsus has on hand a con­

siderable number of stick pins that have been 
turned over to him. A "Working Principles 
of Rhetoric" b}'- Gemmig is also listed among 
the articles found. 
—^The instruments for the Junior Band arrived Monday evening. Tryouts and practices by the eager candidates began Wednesday. The Carrollites taking up the work are under the super^'ision of John Minavio and Frank Carey. 
—B}'- virtue of a notice from the office of 

the Prefect of Discipline, all students are 
absolutely forbidden to go on the lakes at the 
present time. Notification will be given 
when the ice is considered strong enough to 
support the- skaters. 
—Professor Lenihan is now drilling the members of the Dramatic Club in the various roles which they will assume in the next play to be given in Washington HaU. The play chosen, "The Marriage of Kitty," is a modem society comedy drama. It will be produced in the latter part of January shortly before examinations. 
—^The University wishes to thank Mr. Charles Allardt of the Orpheum in South Bend, and also Mr. Harvey Kimz of the same city for the use of rectifiers for our motion picture machines, without which it would have been impossible for us to have witnessed "The Birth of a Nation." 
We are grateful also to Mr. Barnes of the Oliver Opera House for his management of the whole performance and his interest in making this" movie play as perfect as possible. 
—Notre Dame students will welcome the announcement that Michael Calnon and George Hull are soon to open a real cigar store in South Bend. "HuUie" and "Mike" have long been loyal friends and stanch supporters of Notre Dame; in victor}'' and in defeat they have always been with us. This year they evidenced their support by accompanying the team on its trip to Texas. With "HuUie" and "Mike" behind it the new store cannot fail to be a success. It is to be located on Michigan Street and will be opened about February ist. 
—^At the regular meeting of the Day Students'" 
x4LSSOciation on Monday afternoon, the president 
was authorized to appoint a committee to have 
charge of the next dance of the association. 
This affair will probably be given on the 
evening • of Wednesday, January 12th. 
At the same meeting final preparations 
were made to send the basketball team to-
Fort Wayne on the evening of Tuesday,. 
December 7th, for the. first game of the day 
dodgers' schedule. Athletic-manager Conway 
was authorized to make the trip with seven men. 
Plans were also formulated for the organi­
zation of a relay team to compete with the 
relay teams from the various halls in the races 
between the halves of the Varsity basketball 
games. Assistant athletic manager Finch 
win have charge of the relay team. 
-^-With the showing of the wonderful picture 
"The Birth of a Nation" at the University, 
an interesting fact comes to light. 
Frank W. Holslag, one of our students, has, 
among many other interesting papers, an 
original ritual and also the secret code with an. 
explanatory sheet of the famous KuKlux Elian. 
These rare articles were given to Mr. Holslag 
by a close friend. Col. G. C. L. Stansel, now-
deceased, of Pickens County, Alabama. He-' 
was one of the organizers of "that splendidl 
society that did so much to eliminate the-
sufferings of the South during the dreadful, 
days of the Reconstruction. 
A detailed article describing the Klan and", its work and some of the trials of the southern people may be supplied by Mr. Holslag at a later date. 
As this information comes directly from people who were acting characters in this period, andirom one Avho has lived with these people, and who is from those districts, it should, be very inteiresting. 
Safety Valve. 

More trouble than ever has been taken this year to pick all-Hall teams that wall show the various stars hidden beneath the smoke of interhall conflict. The Editor has considered eveyone, and after carefully weighing their merits has selected three teams which speak for themselves. 
FIRST TEAM. 

Bernard Heffernan L E Bxownson Simon Rudolph L T Sorin Robert Bushman Carr L G Day Student Erich Hans DeFries C Sorin AUerton Dee R G Walsh Mark Hackett R T Brownsou Harry McCoUough R E Walsh Tip Hogan Sorin 
Q Earl Hawxhurst Walsh 
LH Elward Haskens Brownson 
RH Robert Sellick Carroll 
F 
SECOND TEAM. 

Oberwinder St. Edward 
LE 

Ford St. Edward-
LT 

Sharp Day Student 
LG 

Garlick Brownson 
C Spears Brownson 
RG Abbott Holy Cross 
RT Windoffer St. Joseph 
RE Lightfoot • Q Brownson Wolf L H Day Student 
Lamb -Bro^vnson 
RH Shepard F Brownson To Bernard Heffernan of Brownson goes the posi­tion of Left End as he has undoubtedlj^ earned it for neatness in arranging his books and perfect enuncia­tion. He has a high voice which penetrates like a hat pin and he would find little trouble in throwing kisses to opposing players which would so bewilder them as to make them useless. While they were in this coma he could easily carry the ball to the opposite goal post if he did not get homesick on the way. Simon Rudolph has been picked for left tackle on account of his gall. He has a forty-two centimetre mouth capable of shouting forth five hundred words a minute. All opponents must succcumb to his nerve, otherwise he would bribe them and attain the goal. He has never handled a football and probably couldn't distinguish one from an ice-cream freezer, but if one were given him he could be sassy enough to make people flee from him and in this way he could secure a touchdown. Robert Cushman Carr is the only perfect lady on this year's eleven, and has been selected for left guard for his ability to guard or to care of children. He is perfectly charming, Tiis manners are lovely, and perhaps no one is better at crochetting than he. His ability to look bored has been a consideration in choosing him. Erich Hans DeFries is by all odds.the best center on account of his stretch. It is said that he is able to Istretch the distance from one goal post to the other. "He has an adam's apple on his neck as big as a footfall land would have his opponents guessing where the ball was. The only possible hope for his opponent would 
•fae to carry a nut cracker—Erich is afraid of them. 
Allerton Dee has been chosen right guard in spite 
of the fact that he was picked last year for ail-American 
pest. His proficiency at eating soup is the chief 
factor considered by the judges. The fact that he 
never .shaves and seldom gets his hair cut is in his 
favor and in everybody else's way. No one could 
endure his company for a whole game and his oppo­
nent must therefore run awaj': enabling Al to make a 
touchdown. 
Mr. Mark Hackett is a blonde who has a complexion 
like a freight car and has been given the position of 
right tackle for his ability to argue on both sides of 
a question at the'same time, without touching either 
side. He has a voice that sounds like the last gurgle 
of a bath-tub which would scare away the opposing 
player. His first name "Mark" sums up his disposition. 
We have placed Harry McCollough at Right End 
for his ability at finding holes. A man that has found 
a hole large enough to admit him into Walsh Hall 
at 10:30 without being ^discovered by the prefect 
should certainly be able to squeeze through an oppo­
nent's line. Harry is perhaps the trickiest player in 
the game. 
For quarterback we have chosen "Tip" Hogan, 
because he has only about a quarter of him in the back, 
three-fourths of him being in the front in the form of a 
breadbasket. He is swift and buoyant and could go 
around the field like a butterfly, shouting signals, 
forming interference, and.blowing his nose, all at the 
same time. His head is full of cube roots, arches, 
surds and absurds and no opponent could ever, hope 
to fracture it. Our one difSctdty would be in getting 
football pants to fit him, we coidd, however, clothe 
him in a tube skirt. 
We have chosen as halfbacks. Earl Hawxhurst and Elward Haskins on account of their sweet dis­positions and deep blue eyes, as well as their ability at parting their hair. Both are social lions and from the way Earl Hawxhurst holds the hands of the fair ones we know he would never let go of a football if it were once given him. Both have corns and like apple sauce. 
To Robert SiUickof Carroll Hall we have granted 
the position of fullback. He will undoubtedly be able 
to go anywhere if he is not pinched for moping on the 
way and it would be just like him to turn up behind 
the goal posts at the most unexpected times. He has 
been with us for the last three months and has not 
discovered yet where the trunk room is, nor is he 
aware that there is any dome at Notre Dame except 
his own. His beauty would bewitch the opposing 
team. 
On the second team we have placed Oberwinder 
and Windoffer as ends thinking that they would equalize each other and even the team. As tackles, we have'placed Ford and Abbott and have Car as a substitute if Ford should not be able to go. We have placed Sharp and Speare as guards because of their ^ ability to pierce the line of any team. Pearson will substitute for them. Garlick.is the.strongest man on the team and would easily hold his own and drive back his man/ . Lightfoot is our choise for quarter and, we have placed. Lamb and. Wolf at the halves but have been careful to put Shepard between them 
so that he will be near lamb arid keep off wolf. 
'•f> 
m 




:^fl_-(5> 
Che 

Dotrc Dame 

n!5ce-9VA5i-5!EmP(5!2 VICTvyR\/S \/lV£>9\yASi-:feAS-MORlT\/«N/5­
VOL. L. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 9, 1916. No. 12. 
The Captain. 
Y OU have doffed the headgear and the suit You nevermore shall wear. And taken off the cleated boot That scored from anywhere; While every jagged rent bears fruit Of Captain Cofall's share. 
And now what honors shall we pay To him with heart so true, . Who bore the pigskin in the fray For love of Gold and Blue? The only thing our hearts can say— We will remember you. 
T. Healy. 
Football at Notre Dame: A Retrospect. 
MICHAEL A. QUINLAN, C. S, C. 

N the twenty-third of November, 18S7, Notre Dame engaged for the first time in what is now called intercollegiate athletics. . Prior-to that date it, had been the custom of^ the University to encourage athletic contests only in so far as they were of purely local interest. In the matter of track contests, for exarixple, the men" who could run and jump and throw weights had rnade repu­' tations for themselves locally during, a period of nearly ten years before there,was any attempt made to "participate in contests with other universities, as was the case when Hal Je\yett ' represented us at Ann Arbor, May 24, 1890. His success on that occasion is represented by a score of thirteen'points. Football, however, was the branlrh of sport in which -we were first represented by a team which competed for the University-of Notre Dame against an outside 
. University, Michigan University being our opponent. ^ ' At .'the-time of otir first -game of football, twenty-nineV' years ago,' the University of 
Michigan came to us not only as an opponent but also as a, teacher of the game, as appears from the fact that the visitors on that occasion gave the Notre Dame team some coaching on the principles of the game, a preHminary contest being staged in which the players took sides-irrespective <of the schools to-which they belonged. On this account the actual contest; which followed was not of fuU length for a ,­
-regulation game; and as a result the score which was made—Michigan, 8; Notre Dame, o— . does not' represent the comparative strength-­of the two teams at the time. Nevertheless, . the contest is memorable in the history of;­athletics at Notre Dame; and the spirit of friendly rivalr}'-which brought both teams -> together at that time was,the ideaT spirit for i; intercollegiate athletics, a spirit that brought^ Notre Dame and Michigan together in two ­other football contests during that same scho-; ; lastic year, one on the twentieth of April in;..' the following -spring, the score being six, to; _ twenty-six in Michigan's favor, and one pa the twenty-first of April, when Michigan won by a •; ­score of ten to four. . ;:; 
For these reasons, as well as f01: other reasons, .-Michigan has been a natural rival of -Notire _• Dame in athletic contests-of all kinds; and.it; seems that in thenatiure of things these two •;. schools should keep this fact in mind. Intef-^ ; collegiate athletics serve their best-purpose :.: only when nattural rivalry is taken as a^basic =:< element for scheduHng any contest that may be;-J under consideration.,-Permanent interest; Is/:, attached to such contests in all parts of the/;; United States; traditions grow up ist^armg I. such contests; and in the long run contests;;,.^, of this^kind are the only ones that.count foir:/ much in a season's success.; ' , --r/H"/ 
Considered in their total,' the; gamesj; ofjl;', football w] Daine and Only one of these games-^the last, bne^was S-H^llSf^­won by Notre Dame, the combined'scpre>of#^^ the nine games being twenty-seven points for the representatives of the Gold and Blue, and Notre Dame against one-hundred and twenty- in that way has enabled the critics of the game four points for Michigan. . to form a surer judgment concerning the relative 
Purdue and Indiana Universities are two strength of teams in widely separated sections other natural rivals of Notre Dame. In the of the countr}'-. In particular is it true that case of Purdue eight games of football have our games with the Army have contributed been plaA'ed, resulting in two tied 'scores, largely, to the recognition accorded the West Purdue winning three games, and Notre Dame in general by those who speak with authority winning three games. The sum total of scores for the East. made, giA-es Notre Dame sixty-nine points, Besides the games ahead}'- mentioned there Purdue getting one 'hundred and eighteen, are, of course, many others that must be taken In the last two games scheduled Notre Dame into account in any complete record of inter-was victorious. collegiate football at No'tre Dame; but it would 
In a general way Indiana's record of football be out of place to treat the subject so exhaus­games plaj'-ed. with Notre Dame is much like tivel}?- in a paper of this nature. The" Notre Purdue's record. There was one tied score. Dame Athletic Guide contains a tabulated four victories for Notre Dame, and four for 'record of all information touching upon inter-Indiana, making a total of nine games. Notre collegiate games of'football, baseball, basketball. Dame won the final game of the series. Again and track, from the time of the Michigan foot-Notre Dame had the smaU end in the total ball game in 1887 down to the present season, scores of all games played, the combined result With the scores of-the games is given also a being fiftj'-six to sixty-one in Indiana's favor, list of the names of the monogram men who 
Notre Dame has met Illinois in football competed in the games. Much other informa­only once; that was eighteen 3'ears ago, the tion of an-interesting kind is added, making score being five to nothing in favor of Notre the Guide very complete as a liistor}'- of inter-Dame. Three times out-of four the Gold and collegiate athletics at Notre Dame.' 
-o^ 
Blue defeated Northwestern. Four times we lost It is not" at all improper that in a review of to Chicago, and three times to Wisconsin, the history of Notre Dame football special Twice we won and once we lost to Ohio State, attention . should' be given to the men .who With Nebraska-we have broken even in the belonged to the first team that competed for only two games played. Ten games have been the University. Fourteen students, of" the played with the Michigan Aggies,-the general Universit}'-, representing residence in thirteen result including-nine victories for Notre Dame different States of the .Union, constituted with a total'score of two hundred and thirty-six-..the membership of the teani that- played 
'"points to twenty-three. The ~ Aggies are a Michigan Universitj'- three games of football natural and formidable rival of Notre Dame; dxrring the scholastic ^^-ear of 1887-1888. This because of. their growing strength and consistent fact is in itself particularly interesting, since it ' 
-' . development, the}^ should take their share of' directs attention to the .cosmopolitan character the victories-in the. futiure.-' of the University at a time when the total Our eastern classic—^with the Army—:hasbeen enrpUment'of students at the University<> was 
an even break so far. Our two victories and two less than half the .present enrollment. George . . defeats "have resulted in a total, of fifty-nine Cartier of Michigan, Joseph Cusack of Nebraska, ­V' ; .points to sixty-three, the "Axmj'; -haAdng. the Frank-Fehr of -Kentucky,.-George JJouck of 
• ~S.'"'-' advantage in :this respect.' Ya,le, Syracuse, Oregon, -Joseph: .Hepburn, of . Texas, Harry -V:' •'"': /^Pittsburgh, Penn: state and Carli'sle, of the 'Jewett of Illinois, Henry Xuhn of Washington, ':^- .; ^ 1" Bast, are also to TDB listed^ atnong'the' teams ' James Malohey of Missouri, Eugene/Melady /_;..;•'•" /.-vvhichhaye tested our strength; Texas and. JRice . of;Minnesota, Patrick"-Nelson jof Iowa, Thomas. " : V- of/the.South,;and SouthvDakota, of the Nort^ O'Regari of Minhesptar Edward Prudtiomme frV..:;,:" .westj.haye likewise contributed a share to ^ the o . Ed ward / Sawkins of \Ohio, and 
, /_:# success;pf our schMule of gaines. Contests-with Frank..Springei;/. of vGepr;^ 
i-v'^ ' teams V nearer ~ home woiild/have been.indrede-..men-who; gave"-fobt&aU'its'r^^ ~, ' _i^^v -i Darhe twehty-nihe years .ago ;.,'an(i it is hoped :'v";:=t^' i^ ; i?;ange-r^^^ embraced<;i?i: vouiv football . that j w^en! the^/ M^ have - their — ~-'l&:l^| i?r ^^^^^^ ^ reimionihefe£nextfiJune,iJ^^ the V 
m 
celebration of the. Diamond Jubilee of the University, these men will take advantage of the occasion and return to the old school. 
To any one who has been closely associated with the University during the period of time-in­cluded in a survey of the entire history of Notre Dame football, it is apparent that the natural strength and latent athletic skill of the men who were members of that first football squad were of such excellence as to compare favorably with similar quslities to be found in the high class 
/'material" out of which the coaches of later times were able to develop some of our unusually^ strong teams. In those early days, however, the teams had to get along as best they could without' the services of an experienced coach. ^ If was only in the fall of 1893 that the Univer­sity teams. were given for the "first time the benefit^of any forrnal and,regular instruction in the game. .Morrison, Hadden, Hering, O'Dea, Faragher, .Salmon, McGlew, Barry, Place,/ Longman, Marks, and Harper—these are the names of the men who-fo,r nearly a quarter of a century have had the task of developing the football idea in the teams of Notre Dame. To this list other names are to be added, the names of those who have rendered regular service as assistant coaches, nainely,"McWeeney, Bracken, Lantry,. Ljmch, Philbrook; Dunbar, Edwards, Rockne, and Hamilton. 
Aside-from the service rendered to the Uni­versity . in the department- of coaching, many of the members of the 'Notre Dame football teams have found 'in other universities an opportimity to teach the principles of the game; and this is true not only in the depart­ment of football but in other.branches of sport" as well, the complete list ' including about sixty names of athletes who might be.enrolled in what could be called the Alumni Coaching Staff. • . .. - -Year after year there are added new names tO­the galax}'- of football stars whose deeds have challenged, the admiration, of' all lovers of the game: To this distinguished group Notre X)ame has contributed her share in numbers":and in degree of" excelleiice;; and sometimes, as at-the close of the present; season, the critics must needs refer to several of our players as worthy of consideration ill the choice of an All-Western 
'Eleven. Be that^asvit may, it "will always be high praise for anj': football player, ever to be mentioned as the equal of Louis J. Salmon, who, as captain and fullback of - the Notre "Dame team of 1902, achieved such success as entitles him to a permanent place in any honorary eleven that may at any time be chosen from among the best that Notre Dame may claim as her own. This would be high praise in­deed; for we need only remember that a few years ago the Chicago Herald, after conduct­ing a nation-wide canvass of opinions concerning prominent football players, proclaimed Louis 
J. Salinon to be the'best fullback of all time. 
Football Elements. 

A is for Andrews a tackle- silk fine. B is for Bachman a bull on the line And also for Baujan a wizard at end. C is for Cofall whom critics commend. Also for Coughlin a bear on defense. 
D is DeGree of a stature immense ^yho sends the ball skj'ing for numberless yards. And "Dutch" with his speed passing tackles and 
guards. ^ 

Dorais too, has-played a great game. E is for each fan at old Notre Dame. F is Fitzpatrick who hits the line low. 
And F for the fello.w who, falls at the blow." G is for Grant a slippery young eel. H is for Harper whose strenuous zeal 
Has built up a team of which we are proud., I for the redskin whose blanket's his shroud. J is for jay, or the Comhuskers' lot. K is for King, just as fast as a shot. L is for Lee who gave us advice. M is for Mac Avho surely is twice 
As large as our Bachman and Cofall and Fitz;' And John Miller too who destroys what he hits. And "Walter the halfback quite helpful indeed, : 
. And Meagher a wing man of marvellous speed; Not to miss Grover Malone as a back At dodging and plunging he's surely a "crack." 
N is for night with its slumberpus cheer . ­O is O'Hara as fleet as a deer. ' , , • P is for Philbin, and Phelan of fame. Q is a letter tliat stands for no name. . R is for" Rockne Jess Harper's right-man 
And also Rydzewski now beat him who can. S is for Slackford an all-aroiuid half. ; . 
~T is the teams that we've given the laugh. U is the umpire who 'calls' all the fighting. . ' V is the "^''arsity of which I am writing. -? "W too claims "Hard" Whipple and "Ward 
While Y is for yearlings the best "on the board. ;­X is for extras that are not in this list, \ And Z I'd leave out if it wpiddn't be missed. 
D.Devereux Smith, 'ig. 

COACH HARPER 
The 1916 Football Season. 
HARRY E. -SCOTT 
Well, it wasn't such a bad'season"aftei" all. 

Casej Western Reserve, Haskell, Wabash, South 
Dakota, the Michigan Aggies and Nebraska 
(the same Cornhuskers that nosed us out last 
year '13)'' one point), all went down ±0 defeat 
before the powerful Notre Dame eleven in 
1916.'^ The wearers of the Gold and Blue came 
out of just one game holding the smaller end 
of the score.. The Army did it. 
The past -season was a great deal like the 

1914 season, when our team^ played wonderful 
football against everj-bod}'' except Yale. That 
one game they, slipped, just as they slid this 
year at West Point. -, 
We could go on to sa)'; tha,t Notre Dame 

scored 293 points during the season to her 
opponents 30, and that she gained two thousand, 
nine hundred^ and eighty-three yards to; her— 
•but what "is the'use of all these figures. 
The season opened on Cartier Field September 30:. Case was the victim, and ,she played her part well. ;Chet Grant,- Avho played his first game, .showed lots- of promise;'and class. His \^ofk' in - rettmiihg punts was good to look upon, while the end fiins of CofaU and Bergman 
ibrpughtjb}'^. to"the heart of .every:':N. D; football bug.' WHien the-day's work was over, the score stood 48 to o Avith the Clevelanders on the zero end. It was a superb opening, and ever};-­thing pointed'to an unbroken string of victories. 
But then the injuries started; coming. First John Miller broke his hand; then Malone was injured, then Bergman, then Cofall—mind you, we are not "alibi-ing" for we have no reason to alibi; but just the same it is only fair" to sa)' that Notre .Dame suffered more from injuries this ^^-ear than ever before in the history of the Autumn sport at the University. We could inject a Avhole paragraph of ifs-7­howeA'er we will not. Just" one! If it had not been for Oliphant to throAV their forward passes and Vidal to catch them, the score would have been—Avell, probably 10 to 9 in our favor. Klmer Oliphant, himself a native of the Hoosier Sta'te, apened up his forward passing in the last seven minutes of play; 'and by the tinie Vidal and himself had enjo5''ed themselves sufficiently, 
they  had  annexed  seventeen  more  points  to  
the .Army's  score.  
This  ma)'^ be  some  consolation:  the  New  

York Sttn said that "in tackling Notre Dame made the' cadets look like novices .. . in rushing the ball the cadets were outclassed . . . in line play Notre Dame stood out above the cadets like a giant among pigmies ... . had the forward passing game been barred the Army might have gone down to a bad defeat." 
- However that is another stor3^ We were 
;>A. 

^^=^asiisi;S:fes-^ 
ASST; COACH ROCKN^ 

defeated, but not without doing credit to ourselves. 
Feeling the sting of the Army defeat, the team journe3*ed to Sioux Falls on November II,- where they mauled the Coyotes to the tune of 21 to o score. South Dakota .always has a strong team, but it is to- be doubted whether a team of Oliphants could have stopped the Hoosiers on that day. 
A return to the schedule of the Michigan Aggies was welcomed by^the football public, as \yell as by followers of Notre Dame and the Michiganders. It was especially appreciated by Notre Dame, who won by the score of 14 to o. In this game CofalL played one of the greatest games of his stellar career. John Miller, Bergman, Rydzweski, and in fact every 
- man on the team, played a wonderful game. 
Then came Alma! They came, saw a lot of football, and were conquered. We say-th&y were conquered, by the score of 46 to o. 
Next,, and last of all, came Nebraska, the same jjroud, chesty Nebraska that nosed out Notre Dame by one teeny-weeny .fatal point last year. Notre Dame went out for Revenge, and got it. In a slashing, lightning attack, she swept the husky Cornhuskers off their feet. Captain Cofall and Bachman were forced to retire early in the game, but the rest of the team fought just the harder because the services of these two had been lost. Bergman was the shining star in Notre Dame's attack; -he ran "around the ends, pulled passes out of the air, and covered the' ground between the line of -formation and the Nebraska goal with such speed that most of the time the Nebraskans couldn't see anything of him except his heels. 
.Twenty to nothiiig" was the final score, and victory was doubly sweet .because of that 20 to 19 score last year. 
At any rate, it was a fitting finale to a success­ful season. Cofall, Bergman, Bachman and Baujan have played, their last game, but Notre 
•Dame. wiU not soon forget-them, especiall)'­when she thinks of that Nebraska score. 
Va'sity Voise; 
That team, L guess, was not so woise. .' It gave cause to rejoice. 
Though Army game left bare my poise ­I still am^^.glad to raise my voice To praise the boys of Harper's choice—. 
To write them up in voise. . . ! .• L. J.B. 


Monograin Men. 
EDWARD J. McOSKER 
CAJPTAIN STANLEY COFALL-^ 

A fighting leader, a demon at carrying ;the • 
ball, and one of the hardest tacklers in. the 
history of football, his place will be hard to 
fill next year. It is little wonder that eastern 
football critics were unardmous in terming 
him the greatest all-round backfield man in 
America. Cofall never -knew the word quit; 
in his three years as_a member of Notre Dame 
football squads, he gave the best that he had, . 
and that in itself was~ enough to make him one" 
of the best halfbacks of aU time: Cofall will be 
badly missed next y^ar, but his name' wiU 
long-go down in the annals, of Notre Dame . 
football as a star of the .first degree. 
CHARLES BACHMAN. ' -­Another man who leaves after three years of valiant service at Notre Dame. "Bach's" name is familiar to every student on the campus. ' His record is of the best. Bachman was a wonder at opening holes in an opposing lii^e, and it was seldom that gains were made . through his-position. Always in the fight, whether his team was winning easily or was battling to defend its own goal, he never _ ­shirked. In addition to his own brilliant play, his was always a steadying hand in the line and his words of counsel were of great value to the yoimg player. 
- JOHN MnxER. Injuries did not prevent John from showing his spirit for his school and his fight for the ­team. The fleet fullback was one of the bright . and shining lights«of the season just closed., . MiUer was a brilliant broken field runner,, a. consistent gainer in'smashes through the line, . a powerful man in interference and a tower ~-= of strength on the defensive. . John completed., a great football career in the Nebraska game, / 
and he will leave school in June with the best. ;. wishes of every student.' - :.:. .« 
HARRY BAUJAN. . . : .' Harry won his third football monogram this," year and his deeds, on the gridiron will; be-^ remembered long after he is gone. Harry was, '' sure death 'I. to opposing backs when .they;';K: tried his end. -He was full of fire and "peppei''-:;^^ ".": and fought constantly/in every game from the{ij^r 
'•-ii'-~'^-^J^.>,k---Z ^ 

first to the last whistle.  Baujan  
is  another  man  whose  place  
it  will  be  exceedingly  difficult  
to fill next 3-ear.  
GILBERT  WARD.  
"Gillie"  won  his  monogram  
this 3'ear after a steady,  faithful  
exhibition  of  football  .ability  
and  fight.  As  a  substitute  
lineman,  he  could  be  called  
upon  at  any  time  and  he  
never  failed  to  "deliver  the  
goods."  Alwa3'S willing, he won  
his  way  into  the  hearts  of  
coaches  and  students.  It  will  
COF.'VLL  be  a  hard  task  to  find a  man  
so  able  to  step  into  the  breach  and  take  a  

regular's place as was Ward. He too goes forth with the best wishes of all the students. ARTHUR BERGMAN. 
The' "fl\'ing Dutchman" is undoubtedly one of the best halfbacks in the country. In the games this season, he was one of Notre Dame's most brilliant performers. At'carrying the ball,' he was a wizard. Time and again, he broke away for long, brilliant runs. At Nebraska, he was the man who arose to the occasion and scored two of Notre Dame's touchdowns. Practically all that the Cornhuskers saw of the speedy little halfback: was his heels. He has one more 3^ear to pla3- and the fans wish it were five. 
FREDERICK ST.ACKFORD. 

"Slack" gave exhibition after exhibition this 3'ear that thrilled the rooters. Overcoming an injur3^. which handicapped him during his pla3­in 1915, he proved a,.most valuable substitute to John Miller in the fullback position. Slack-ford was a powerful driver on line and-off tackle plunges. He was clever and'consistent at coxxj­ing the ball in the open field and a stead3'' man on the defensive. 
JIM PHELAN. • 

Stead3'' old Jim is. one of .those pla3'^ers who know the game of football, from A'to Z and who use that knowledge to wonderful advantage. As a field general, Phelan is hard to beat. Alwa3-s cool under the heaviest fire, his signals ring out with a spirit that sends the Varsit3'^ plimging ahead to victor3''. Jim has also been consistent in caiT3'ing the ball and a most reliable man on the defense. Notre Dame is fortunate in having him back next, year to run the team from the quarterback position. 
STEVE FITZPATRICK. 

Though it was his first 3''ear in college football, "Fitz" showed abilitv that ranked him as one of the best backfield men in the Avcst. Pie could step into cither halfback position or into fullback and pla3'- excellent football, and he did. Steve was a most valuable man to the team and he never failed to give his best. In the next two 3''ears, he should be a great power in Notre Dame teams. 
CHESTER GRANT. 

He is another man who stepped into the front rank in his fir_t 3''ear in college football. As an understud3'- to Phelan, he improved steadity as the season advanced. Possessed of a world of speed, he was one of the team's most valuable broken field runners, and on the defense, he never failed. Grant will be back for two more 3^ears and again Notre Dame can consider itself fortunate. 
RAY WHIPPLE. 

Whipple likes football and he likes to fight for his alma mater. The stock3^ little end pla3^ed the st3de of "game that the rooters like. Alwa3''S ready for a hard struggle, he put forth his everv'.effort. "Whip" is a deadl3^ tackier and a terror t the opposition. At the end position, he has been a most valuable adjunct to Harper's great machine, and fans are happ3' that he has one more 3'^^ear of service to give to Notre Dame. 
JOHN MEAGHER. The rise of Meagher was phenomenal. At the beginning of the season, he was simpl3^ one' of a number of candidates for an end position. But as the season progressed Meagher improved, 
and by the middle of the schedule he was ranked as one of the first three /i^ ' ends on the team and as a ^^"'^^ 
' 

powerful factor on the squad. "Jack" was another man who never knew the word quit. He was alwa3''S full of consis­tent, effective fight,' and in the. two years he has left to play, Notre Dame will receive much more valuable service from him. _ = ' 
ARNOLD MCI-NERNY. 
" Big Aiac " was a bulwarls in the Gold and Blue line. On the ,offense, he bore through BACHMAN 
&. 
M 
< 
> 
w 

opposing, lines with deadty effect­iveness ; oh the defense, he broke through time and again and hurled the opposing-players back for losses. Mclnern3'^'s tackle 
"position Avas always Avell taken care of b}' the big, but "peppery" guardian. "Mac" has another year at Notre Dame. Once more Notre Dame is fortunate. 
FRANK COUGHLIN. 
Mclnerny's runnnng mate, Coughlin, pla3''ed'the left tackle' position with the manner of a veteran, despite the fact that it w^as his first year in college 

BAUJAN football. Big and rangy,, he used every bit of his strength and energ}'- with telling effect and it was seldom that gains were made through him, while on the offense he Avas consistent in opening holes for his own backs. "Cough" has two more 5''ears and the students are glad. 
DAVE PHILBIN. 

"Phil" upheld, the reputation established long before him by athletes from the far west. Time and again he stepped into the. shoes of -. Mclnern}'- and tore viciously into the opposing line or blocked attempts at gains through him. Philbin isn.'t" through here 3'^et, and the fact causes niany a smile of happiness, because he's coming through with" a lot more valuable pla}'- before he receives his diploma. -T . : 
. , ' . . "BODIE" Andrews. : Andrews was " considerabl}'^ .lighter than the^ other tackles on the. Notre Dame, squad, but tliis iact did not prevent him from displa3ang his,,true. w^orth. Though it was only his first year on,the team, he was a-stead}?-, valuable .rsiibstitute,. one wh o could be called upon to , go in at .an}?- jimctxlfe in the game; and deliver-, offensively and -defensively, and he .never: failed. ­
} r --^ "Cir" DEGREE. ' ;•" • ;• ' ; 
"Noi'mah'on the team had more, fight,- nidre consistent energy, than did ..the young guard from way-up 'north" in Minnesota..' jAnother first tyear, maLUjVhe too. played .like, a "veteran, 
=never> failing anijrthepincH^s^^^^ 
•dowri ^the right 'guard - po^ 
.*greatest""driVes;;atid~jDpehing "holes whenf^^^cared upon. 'peGreeis also^ajptmter of the first rank, -and;:MstrloiIg,^" dangerous spirals :~:topk Notr.e 
jDaihe ,7but£:oJ^Sthe dan^ zone many a "time.; 
DeGree.has two more years and the school 
is happy. 
FRANK RYDZEWSKI. 

"Big Frank" plaj^ed McEwan, the All-American star of the Array, to a standstill a few weeks ago- and thereby gained recognition from the critics as*" one .of the greatest centers in football. But his West Point pla}?- was only one ,^of his consistent exhibitions of ability. He was.a never-failing pivot. .He played the offensive ganie steadity and brilliantly, and he was a great bulwark on the defense. Frank has another 3-ear and again fortune smiles sweetly. 
TOM KING. 

King long' ago displayed his ability as a basketball and track star and his performances on the gridiron this season were almost as brilliant. As a utilit}'' end, he was most valuable. He was a good defensive "man and - speedy and consistent on the offense. Tom has another 3''ear to play Varsit}'-; football. . ; There are other men who gave valuable service to the squad during the season. Among them; are Grover Malbne, the great -little half-" back for whominjiu-ies that kept him out of the game for weeks stopped a brilliant season; Joe Dorais, the little quarterback who never failed to give valuable service and. wjho constantly displayed the nerve of -m.en twice ,his size, .Walter Miller,- O'Hara, Ward :Miller,. Allison,. Morales,-Yeager, Garrv'-, Frantz,Jerr3'- Murphy, 
. Madigan,. and Kelly,—all of . them acquitted 
.themselves well, in games and worked consist-' 
ently in practice, and they should be heard 
fromiri future years. . . - -, 

-.-- ^-***:-;.-. '. ^:.^.; .M 
• : W HippLis . J. -^^j 

-MCIN.E'RNY:^' -.^^^^ M 
RYDZEW.S'KI'. .i^^^^^^^l 
^GRAW T-;';..'-;' .' ^^ffi^^^H 
- DEGR EE ' -•'-:' '^^^H^VI ' r-; ~BE;R GMAk •-'•.":' -"""-' •'''-J^^^^^kB BACHMA N '.:. 7{^ \ ~; ^^^^BRv 
- ,.C OFALL.-,. ' ^^^^^Bs 

CpUG H LIN ';. - '^^•'^^B BAUJ A.'N-Vvr:-;-' -^.; \ .. -.. ^ B -^^ ' , ". -. 
-M'-.ALONE-•'•"'.:•-•=:-;•.--""" '-^m,' -^M 
. -S LACKFORD '^^^^'S^.S^A^.i' '" ' ll^ 

E-^S'*»i 

:\^ v-^v.„ XjC iS^^m:}s^z^?om^-^^.ikm'mm''^^
t 

- Tlie Freshmen. . * 
CHARLES w. CALL. 
A victory over St. Viator's CpUege, holders of. the high score record for one game—210 to o against Lane—by the score of 10 to 7; a win from Michigan Western State Normal College, conquerors of M. A. C. Freshmen.77 to 3, by the score of 10 to 6; a.lone defeat at the hands of Kalamazoo College, M. I. A. A. Champions, by the score of 34 to 7, are the record of the 
Notre  Dame  All-fresh  football  team  for  this  
season.  
'  Kankakee,  Illinois,  was  the  scene  of  their  

first battle. St. Viator's College boasted of one 
r
of the best teams in her history and after she had run up a double century score on a Chicago school early in the . season her followers did not hesi­tate to predict a victory over the. 
Notre Dame yearlings. When the two teams clashed these predic­tions were almost realized. Two teams could scarcely have been 
better matched and each team played-all the football it knew to come out a winner. Each side scored a touchdown, and each side added a point by kicking the goal following its touchdown. Cap- ., tain George Gipp, fullback for i;i the Freshmen, contributed 'a goal from 'the field, and these three points were the slender but alto­

COACH FITZGERALD 
gether sufiicient margin for.-victory. Kalaniazoo, Michigan, was the destination of the Freshmen's second trip. Michigan Western State Normal College was the foe. Unbeaten for five long years, convinced that a team which could beat the M.. A: C. Freshmen 77 to 3 could beat any other team outside of the Western Conference and maybe one or two select teams in the East, the Wolverine embryo teachers were prepared to smother our yearling aggregation. As in the St. Viator's game each side scored a single touchdown. As in the St. Viator's game the booting ability of George 

A second invasion of Kalamazoo punctuated-the season with a defeat. .Kalamazoo, College  tiumed the trick. The Celery'pity team are: the champions of their restricted "conference"  which includes all the. minor Michigan institu­tions, and they play a first-class article- of.fdot­ball. After setting-down the fact that;-the better^team won, and deser\'-ed to win, it would not be fair„to ignore the fact that Notre\Daine , was severely handicapped before and throughout the game by injuries. Backfield inen .^ere ­played in the line when the regular, linemen,, were forced out of the game following injuries; 
But ^11 this is the glamour connectedr^with; being a member of the Freshman squad.; ^The games chronicled above were parlor pastimes ' compared with the imheralded bruising scrim-
images the yearlings endured at; the hands of the Varsity, once, twice, or three times a week. Whatever prestige the Notre Datne Varsity team has attained during its 1916 campaign is due. in no small measure to the men who will get their degrees in 1920. .- Per­sonifying Wabash at one time, the Army at another,' M. A. C. and Nebraska at others, they gave their best on. every occasion. 
Who coached this wonderful 1 Freshman team? Freeman Fitz-. gerald and "Biff" Lee. Two of; the best athletes Notre Dame ever. ­turned out guided the destinies of the first year men. '' They separ-_ 

ated the chaff from the wheat'-'  and they had a good brand of the scarce article .^  before the season had= progressed far. Teaching a green bunch-of mateirial the-unique type of  football pecidiar to Notre Dame, they .exhib­ ite'd a world of patience and perseverance. ;  They turned a line which was little better than a sieve during the;first few scrimmages into a.  stone wall that could hold the Varsity "^with  considerable regularity; they turned the off en­ sive strength of their proteges from-a joke into.-^ a genuine actuality that could-make it: intei:-­ esting for the Varsity or any other team; they , 
Gipp.decided the contest. Standing on his own .brought'the forward passing of their team-up:; forty-yard line in the latter part of the game he'- to a high standard by.midseason. '. '.•:.? 
sent, a long low field goal-sixty yards-directly between' thefKalamazoo uprights for a second victory, and for what is reputed to be a season's­record for a drop kick. ' : 

 Some sort of recognition of the :indiyidualsji^  that comprised the Freshman team .seems';; fitting in a resume of the season. .To'their;>:  credit let it be-said the .rhembers of-the team v: 
did not confer this recognition upon themselves at any time during the year, but each one gave his best efforts for the success of the team and never reached out for individual glor}'-. Captain George Gipp distinguished himself b}'' his extraordinar}'- kicking throughout the season. He pla3'^ed fullback and he plaj^ed it well. He has the drive necessary for the position ^and he proved a consistent ground gainer all year. Murph}' at quarterback^ showed considerable class. His generalship was good on all occasions and he displayed a lot of ability with the. 
never failed to give a good account of himself. 
Hayes made a good end and could catch a forward pass on slight provocation. Stanley, McGuire, Stein, Powers, Sullivan, Ryan, Flani­gan, Fusick, and Evans, played hard, consistent football and all were better players for their efforts. All these recruits will bear watching, and we A'enture the prediction that the team that flung the colors of Notre Dame from Kanka­kee to Kalamazoo will do much to plant them in the East and West next year. 
FRESHMAN 

forward pass. Dent arid Farwick played good games at halfback. Norman Barr^'-, hero of many a former interhall "shamble," also 
•pl&yed a fine game at halfback during his first collegiate 5'^ear. The Biglesbacks gave their best to the team and played good games when­ever given the opport^mit3^ Holton.came all the way from Texas to contribute his athletic prowess to Notre Dame and he held down the center-position admirabl}'^ all season. Ambrose at guard was about the pluckiest thing on the line. Ever}'- game and every scrimriiage foimd him .battling awa}?- at men twice his size, and he 
 TE.A.M 
We Win. 

The Senior Class can boast that they , Have five men on the team; There are but four good Juniors, but As stellar lights they beam. 
The Sophomores have only two. Although they should have nine; But when it corned to Freshmen, boys. They've eleven in the line. 
• P. Loosen, 'ig. 

^ 
The Critics' Choice. 
Football critics began getting in their "deadly" work before some of the prominent teams had completed their schedules. All-Western and' All-Conference and All-i-Vmerican selections fly thick and fast these days. Notre Dame has received much mention on these mythical teams, but it is in no sense egotism to assert that she has - not received a bit more' than she deserves. What team East or West, North or South, would not have gladly found a place for a Cofall, a Miller, a Bergman, or a Phelan? What team would not have gladly added any of our linemen to its roster? Each was a star in his own position Avithout displaying center and Cofall, halfback, on his second team. 

Malcom McLean, Chicago Evening Post 
critic, placed Bachman at guard on his first 
All-Western team. 
Charles E. Parker, writing for the Boston Post,, honored Bachman with a place on his All-American second team. ^*^ 
Jack Velock, International News' sports editor, claimed Bachman and Cofall were good enough for his first All-Western team. 
The selections of the United Press for the 
All-American teams placed Madigan and Cofall 
on the second sc[uad. 
These are the extent of the selections to come ^before our notice previous to going to press. 
•-^ ' •§ © 0-§ m. i M •^-^•^^H't^'# 
'1 V** 
IXTERHALL 
it. The superb team play developed by. the Gold and 'Blue outshone the brilliancy of any one man. The team was successful beyond a doubt; that a few men should obtain particu­lar recognition is no reflection on the men that assisted them. ^ However, it is a little something to beheraldedas the best in your work, no matter what it is, so we take pleasure in • cfironicling some of the selections on mythical teams that have come to our-attention. 
Walter Eckersall, writing for the Chicago Tribune, placed Arnold Mclnerny at a guard position on his first All-Western team. Captain Cofall found a place on his second team. 
G. W. Axelson, the Chicago Herald football expert, named Bachman for a guard on his first All-Western team, and he made Rydzewski 
/-^ •» 

 CHAMPIONS 
Not to be outdone by Walter Eckersall, 
Walter Camp, G. W. Axelson, Ring Lardner, 
the editor of the VALVE, or anj'one else, the 
referees who decided the fine points of the 
interhall games have picked an All-Interhall 
Team. They pretty generally concur that the 
team they have picked could beat any other 
team recruited from interhall. 
The selections come after a season singularly . successful in the annal5 of Interhall Football. Corby slowly but surely ehminated ever}- con­tender for the championship and all the honors_ of" the season belong to the hall beyond the Church. "To the victors belong the spoils" is again demonstrated by the number of Corby men selected for honors on the All-Interhall team. 
•i88 ^ THE NOTRE DAME 
FIRST TEAM. 
PLAYER POSITION HAUL 
Spalding L E Corby 
E. Miller „ _ ...X T ...„ r. Corby Walsh ^. -L G Corby Zoia _ C „_ - Brownson Huber...... '. ..R G....^.. Sorin Dixon ,:.... -R T Sorin Wrape...... : R E Walsh O'Neill ; ....Q.... .'..- Sorin Kasper (capt.) R H Corby 

Tleilly._... _..-, L H ^1 Brownson Fanvick _ ; .F.. Corbv 
WHiile they were at it the referee's picked a second team. Here are the alternates: 
SECOND TEAM. 
PL.'^YER POSITION H.'^LL 

Ryan „ 1...L E , Walsh King - -_L T „ Brownson Huxford. .-„-...„-„..:... L G : C'orby Cullen._^..^.:..l :..... C - :„Corby Madden-_ ..R G „ Corby Noonan„.., : R T... ' Walsh Keenan.. R E... .'. Corbj' Lockard..";._ _: ...Q _ .......Corby Haberer._ .". R H„:...., .'...Walsh Brandy.. ..„...._ ........:..L H........._ Corby 
Fitzgerald.—., „ F.„.,.„......l ; Corby 
The In''erhall mentors further., agreed that some mention should be made of Dorwin, Gl3mn, McConnell, McKenn}'-, and Fucik who pla)''ed good ball throughout the season. 
The brand of football familiarl}'- known-as' "-Chick" also,flourished during the season just: closed. "More^ enthusiasm was shown this year than ever before, and this can be laid at the door of Rev. CorneHus Hagert}'', .-Jerrj'" Noonan, 
'Norman-Berry, and "Chief" Meyers, the men who* coached the different organizations. = Four games were played by each team, and again Corby carried off.the championship.- The fol­lowing AU-Chick team selected'by.the coaches and the referees who witnessed the games A^ill furnish "fan food" for the winter! 
">TLAYER 'POSITION --. HALL • 
{Whife.;.!;..: :t:.:c.-.i;E:-i::.2:. -...Brownspn 
. Shields._iu.. :.;.Brqwnson Kaiie.„.'J:-. ..:„..:;_^Walsh , Jiames.-:4.1.i i.;.:-::i.rWalsh: ^Ryaii-IL^ R G-L-iL: ..L::-lCorby 
s-'fFaseninayer;.I^.l~:__...... ,.:.^.:-.Gorby 
;^:;^MSiyi;:^:i.^.l^il_^:.r_:i.i^^ i.^-i^Walsh 
ti:K^ll5^i^il4S„:Ji^ „-:Brownsbn .,'..l'.i:=;:.WaisV ;^j'^Brandy„j„4i^l.J.-..^i.iii';si::^ :^:^:2Corby^ ::;i;l).enver. -:iiiF:::.:.^::.: -Walsh : 


SCHOLASTIC 
Forward Passes. 

- WHO'S WHO? Who showed the football world some stunts? ""Cofall. " Who ran the ends and kicked the punts? 
Cofall. Who's there at any kind of game? The one man Army couldn't tame? Who will be missed at Notre Dame? 
Cofall. 

Who was the backbone of the line? Bachman. -­" In every game who's work Avould shine? 
Bachman's. Who-made the holes for Stan Cofall' To run through wild with that old ball? 
'Who is the pride of Corby Hall? Bachman. 

Who wouldn't give Wabash a chance? Miller. . Nor let the Injuns do their dance? 
Miller. , Who helped to beat the U. S- D's, Nebraska U's andM . A. G's? Whose very name'ineans victories? -x 
-• Miller.^ ^' • 

Who is. as solid as a rock? Baujan. ' _ ­Who played left end, 'long side of Bach? ., ."-- -Baujan. , . ' : 
-Though he might strike a darn tough team. Whose.happy smile would always gleam? Who never could they hurt, 'twould seem? 
, Bail Jan. •- , ; . ; ' . -^ ^.L. J. Blake. 

-. -. -,-^ POOR THING!. ' , , 
I'm-just a little 'Big-Nine'; school, •" v .- Demure and inoffensive, _ . About ray football team I'm' most .. 
"-. Absurdly apprehensive.. ; .., ­

. Throughout the entire year i-claim 
• And boast'in :.manner cheerful, 

, BtTt when they mention NotrC; Dame, ', I own Tin rather fearful.; '.;. . 
7 Of coufseTm riot afraid, you know, [-•-'. 
'. XThat'N; D . '•', , . •-Though IvwlLknow I'd coiri^ ; '•:> -.n->he."sli^ v - p.. 
---*=: r;: 




^^r'WI&ffM 
THE NOTKE DAME SCHOLASTI 
'•^mmi. 
WHEN MILLER HITS THE LINE. O'er my cute and classic features, When I'm cheering in the bleachers, 
Comes a look of -\vild, enthusiastic glee; And a joyous glow suffuses. There's no sign of gloom or blueses. 
When I hear the chorus riot: "U. N. Dl" ­
O it's off my seat I'm tippin' 
When I see young "Bergie" slippiii' 
Back of perfect interference to a goal; And I chortle and I cackle When Cap. Cpfall runs off tackle 
Through the. place, where "Tiny" Bachman made a hole! 
But the sight I'd rather gaze on * . 
And the one I'll lilt my lays on 
-For it,iills complete this cup o' joy of mine. Is that most exquisite thriller, ^ Dashing, smashing, John M. Miller, \ -' 
As he plunges through the center of the line. 
0 if I were like Gregori 
And could tell, in painted story. 
Of the deeds I thought were justly superfine; •* 1 Avould grab my bristling brushes. Draw you one- of Miller's rushes 
As he plunges through the center of the line; 
Stuart H. Carroll. 

A TOAST. 
.V. " 
Cheers for the men of yesterday. 
Cheers for the men of old. For those who fought in the bygone day. For Salmon and Eich, the giants of the fray For all our %yarriors of the play. 
For those with the hearts of gold. 
Cheers for the men of to-morrow's sun 
Cheers for the men to be; • For those who AVIU fight till the day is won. For those who will do what a "Stan" has done,^ For our warriors each and every one. 
Cheers for the heroes to be._ -—T. Healy. 
. • CHARLIE'BACHMAN. 

We love to sing the praises of the valiant N. D. line. The tackles, centre, and the ends, in marble 
- enshrine; " . . For guards, too, we would, seek a place, and in the-best 
] ' • -• of all " •' • •"; . ; 
We'd fix-a golden pedestal and Bachman there install. 
He's the'Other "Stonewall" Jackson, he's a humaa, -1"-- -.dynamo, ,.-: . - ., , -­
The signals are the batt'ries, they sure make-ourT---'0|=Cs|l.'| 
• Charlie go. , ' ' . ! • -j ^ ?->-:>»^^S& 

•There's no one who can hold him, he is^ always there" to win, ^ _ , .• ; 
There's" nothing that can stop him. short o' nitro-i ^ glycerin. "^ • . . ''­
M 

We expect great deeds of Charlie, he's been doing 
great things here, T When he was on the N. D. line, all rooters did was cheer. In football he's a wizard, and in classes he'sa ."shark,",_ So when it comes to "plajang" law, watch Charlie m 
make his mark. • 

On offense now he has no peer, he'll have no equal then. For defense give us Charlie, keep a thousand other men.' We watched and marvelled in the past, we cheered 
his very name. • . ../•,' We'll watch and cheer in days to come, we men of 
^:^ 
Notre Dame. .,.^ i .^--w-: '" ' Jolm A. Lemimr.',­
CAPTAIN. COFALL. I . --\, ­

Your N. D. football days are o'er. Your togs are packed away; The Blue and Gold you'll lead no more . ' Upon the field of play. • •..;.; '.. 
In years to come, when others tell :::.-':' Of heroes young and^reat, ' , ,,= ^- _,_;• We'U-think of you, and hearts %vill swell' <•., . 
, .c.;- -^-._.-r;,'_4. 
When your deeds we-relate. ' .. -; 
• ^z ^
>-i> 
"'^ 
• :i.i'~ VX'/i

For me you'll speed 'round ends again, .!_,,"*"-;-: i.'l'Z-­
^-J«v. 



' *';'­
!.-••-­
 i*-,-. 
Again you'll hit the line, , : . .*--.i . " • ' r-i-r s.' •^•fx-_ 

 .-­You'll break through ranks of struggling men^— . In fondest dreams of mine. ~ ". • 
-

>*?&: 

With warriors of bright days" gone-by Shall rank your mighty name, . Its greatness shall best glorify The great "All-Notre Dame!" 

f..A:;n; 
.-'^••i, 
YELL OR YELP? .. ; 

:-.--...iV;^^iV|i I've heard the roaring breakers lash the, boso.ni^,of:ithe,^^. rV'^^S;^^^ sea -_ ^ '- ._,-;:,:;.:. .^. .-.•:'-;..*.1,'>' The wail of.wind through forests grim is not unknpwn> . i?'i 
to me, ' -''-'•-: .'-'.;'._" ^-.'-.^ -"}Z 

I've heard the typhoon howl and moan while swirling^ sand soared high, " _-""'.'-• •":;;,'>" Across the weald from battlefield. I've heard rtlie,::34^^ wounded's cry; -" -,' .-• .;, ""••.:"• :^'\:,lr'^^^iS. But I have yet'to hear a plaint as.mournful, as forlornK, v-|^|?|||5|^ 
•oil uVliir»>i tmrn a tliniicnnrl'tTirnntt: nornct: fTip . *'i<fcjL-.'''&X3ftsft 

• Our warriors weaken for a trice, our brawny line is torii;- l^/'r" i^ff*^ Then low and slow with rythmic flow in fear almost in ;'~.t:;Vi4il?^ 
Rolls out that gloomy gruesome groan,,"Oh, iiold:'emvS>jg^|f^g > • -. ^.• Notre-Dame!"';. '-, . y"" -. .:•' ;'-•.':^-?>-'-'i':^l>'l3i^fl 

4«£fe* 
I \ 






THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
s :^ ' "^ Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter. 
Published every Satiirday during the School Term at THE ITKIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Terms: $1:50 per Annum. Postpaid 
~ Address: THE EDITOR, NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Noire Dame, Indiana , 
DECEMBER 9, 1916 No. 12. 
BOARD OF EDITORS 
HOWARD R. PARKER, '17 SPEER STRAHAN, '17 If. JENNINGS YURPILLAT, 'IS HARRY E. SCOTT, '17 JOHN A. LEMMER, 'IS DELMAR J. EDMONDSON, '18 THOMA^S F. HEAIVY, '19 EDWARD J. MCOSKER, '17 MICHAEL J. EARLY, '17 CHARLES W. CALL, 'iS 
—^Announcement that Coach Harper has signed a contract to supervise athletics at Notre Dame for three more yekrs after his present contract exoires in Tune was Coach Harper, received joyfully b}'- students and alumni of the university. During his four years as head of the athletic 

- department and coach-of the football, baseball, and basketball teams, Coach Harper has displayed constant efficiency. In arranging schedules, he has succeeded in sending Notre Dame teams "against those of the representative schools, of the countr}-. As a coach, he has alwajj-s "brought out the best in his men and ,he has never failed to develop' winning teams in every branch of sport. Mr. Harper and his assistant, Mr. EJiute K. Rockne, one of the best football and track men in the histor}'- of our school, form a combination of which fewi..if any, schools in the countr}'- can boast an equah 
Mr. Harper stands for all that is clean and 

..-ifair:in athletics. His standards are high and his principles are alwaj'-s expressed in his actions; as director of - athletics. The many 
. students and alumni of the school appreciate : his-coiiscientious efforts of the past and wish ' liim.the'.greatest of Success in his future work. " ,\ "Not -only am I. completely satisfied with , 
the. work of Coach Harper, in athletics," said , vPatherf'Cayanaugh,- in\speaking of- the new '{ 'conixact,{.''but I have':the greatest admiration -.^for- him .andthe gireatest confidence.in hiin. -;J Ifis;,.idealsV of /sport are- the- ^highest andi his 
:.--r.~-'Wi

WMSM 
_vX*'>tt.*'^"/;-"- -' 

Mi mm tmmmm^ :^>-*, 
record is the greatest in American athletics. His influence over the students is all that could, be desired, and they have for him not only admiration as a leajder, but respect for him as a man. T consider Coach Harper the finest,figure in American athletics." 
—TH E SCHOLASTIC is devoted this week to a re\dew of the 1916 football season, together with an appreciation of the men who made it 
the success it was. For their ser-The Season, vice, every student, ever}'- alum­
. nus, and every friend of the Uni­versity is heartil}^ grateful; Along with a consist­ent display of courage on the gridiron the men of this year's Varsity kept alive the venerable tradition governing the monogram man of Notre Dame. From the banks of the'Hudson westward to the Nebraskan plain they carried upon the field the invisible banner of Christian manhood, from whose pinions ever}'- true son of our Universit}'- draws his inspiration. They were gentlemen atliletes all. With characteristic self-effacement the men of the eleven now leave the glamour and the hurrah of the field and quietl}'' resume their^ places among the private citizenry of the campus; Given a heav}^ assign­ment last September, they have turned in a glow­ing record. For some, the game on Thanksgiving' Da}'-, sounded the swan song of college football. " To these especiall}'-^the University extends the-right hand of gratitude. With a final word of thanks to the others Avho helped to uphold the Gold and Blue the football season of 1916 is' formal!}'- ushered-into history. 
Local News. 

—Have you'counted the hours until Christmas ? —The Junior Class • a at meeting last week elected the following officers': William Breeu McDonald, president'; John A. I^emmer, vice-president; Robert B.Hannan,'secretary;' Joseph 
W. McKenna, treasurer;. Robert J. Ovington, sergeant-at-arms. > 
--I)r. Bdgar/J. Banks, the noted archeologist and the conductor pf ".several Bab}doniah expeditions,! opened a series of threq lectures in Washington,-Hall-.Tuesda}''/afternoon. . The-first of the series was on .Pompeii-and the "talk/ was-iUustrated by a niiinber of slides." '. 
•^The 'organization of-the. Class of ..igig has _ been "completed. - The, officers^ are as'•. follows :­
wmimmmm 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
, 191 -" \ 

President, Henry I/. Morency; vice-president, Edward Meehan; secretary, Austin McNichol; treasurer, Francis Mulligan; sergeant-at-arms, • William M. Allison; chaplain, John J. Garry. 
—'By a recent purchase the University has come into the possession of a rare old Bible of the age of 438. years. This volume was printed in Latin in Venice in 1478 by Theodoric Reynsourch and Renaldus Novimagio Gheu­tonicon and Company. The book was purchased 
• in Loudon. " —The LaSalle County Notre. Dame Club, composed of 24 students from LaSalle County, Illinois, elected the following officers at their regular meeting Monday:—^J. E. Cassidy, pres-c'.ent; E. Breen, vice-president; R. J. Dunn, treasurer and G. Cain, secretar}'-. The semi­annual dance of the Club will be held at the Clifton Hotel, Ottawa, Illinois, on Jan. 2. —The official announcement states that the Christmas vacation will be as per the catalog schedule from Dec. 20 to Jan. 5. There will be no extension of time this year, the classes will be over on Wednesday afternoon. The regular examination in all of the classes will be held on Wednesda)'-, December 20. • —Thursday evening at 8 o'clock the final contest for honors was held in Washington Hall. The judges for the occasion were: for manu­script. Fathers Matthew Walsh, Cornelius Hagerty and Charles L. O'Donnell; for deliver}-, Senator-elect Charles Hagerty, Attorney William \lclnerny' and Rev. ' Leonard Carrico, Dean of the Department of English at the University. —On Tuesday night the Sophomore Class organized and elected officers as follows: presi­dent, Henry L- Morenc}'-, Sturgis, Mich.; vice-president, Edward Meehan, Philadelphia, , Pa.; secretary, Austin A. McNichols,'Chicago, 111.; treasurer, Frank Mulligan, New York City; sergeant-at-arms, William T. AUison, Georgetown, Tex.; historian, George HaUer, Sault Ste. Marie, Mich.; chaplain, John Ooxy, Richmond, Va. ::--^The.. first preliminaries of the Breen Ora-­torical Contest resulted in- the following four men winning places in the order named:, Ber­nard VoU,' Francis Palmer, Frank Poland and Oscar Dofwin."^ The other entrants in the , - contest won the following places, in the order named: Speer Strahah, John Lemmer, Edwin 
Hunter, Matthew,. Coyle, Thomas Healeyand ' Bernard Heffernah;-, ,^ 
Personals. 

—Walter Clements (A. B., .'14) attomey-at­
law, announces the establishment of offices-at 
237 South Fifth Street, Louisville, Kentucky. 
,—^Jose F. Bracho (C. E., '15) writes Professor 
McCue that he is now with the Mexican Geo-, 
graphic Commission, and that his. work is 
similar to that of the- United States Coast and ­
Geodetic Sur^-ey. 
—James "Tip" Hogan (C. E., '16) visited . 
friends at the University last week. Jim is now 
working with the Interstate Commerce Com­
mission valuating the property of the Penn-' 
sylvania Lines and is doing well. 
'—^Harry G. Hogan (LL. B., '04) and Miss . Virginia Olds were united in marriage in Fort Wayne on November 2Sth. JMr. Hogan is one of the most popular members of the younger Alumni and has already an enviable reputation as a lawyer. 
V-''—Rev. Francis M. ("Happy") O'Connell 
(A. B., -'11) was ordained to the holy priesthood by Bishop 'Dougherty in Buffalo, .December 7th, and will solemnize^his first Mass in the -^ Church of the Annunciation, Williamsport, Pa., to-morrow. THE SCHOLASTIC unites itself with~ a multitude of friends in wishing him every . 
. blessing in his priestly work. —^The Notre Dame Club of Chicago held the first of a weekly series of luncheons last Wednes­day at the Hotel Morrison, Chicago. It is the desire of the dub to have ever})- alumnus and former student attend these meetings. Notre Dame men residing outside of Chicago are ' cordially invited to attend. These luncheons will be held every Wednesday at noon in the Hotel Morrison and there will always be some of the boys from yoiu: alma.; mater there to greet you. Be sure and come whenever possible. ' Notre Dame men residing in Chicago and vicinity whose names are not on thelist of-the ­local club, or whose places of residence have been • changed recently, will. kindly' send tfieir 1 names and addresses to Fred, L., Steers, secre-./ tary. First National Bank JBuilding,' Chicago, III.-: Also'please forward the names of any foriner students -whose names you know, are not in' " the hands of the secretary. \. . . '< The annual banquet of the Notre Dame Club of-Chicago will be held on January.27, 1917. .,; The' place and program have not as yet been ':S decideaupon. Save the date. ' ' ;. . ' .1': 
mm
•a^Msssfls 

192 

Interhall Athletics, Chicago Examiner, ^ igi;^.^ "Capt. Rockne, . who led the Notre Dame eleven through such The Carroll Hall football team went to a successful season," is placed ' at right end. Cassopolis, Michigan, on Friday, December Sth, (All-Western). This player possesses all the to pla}'^ the high school team of that place. qualifications of an ideal end rush and the This post-season game brought to a close a clever manner in which he handled forward most successful season. The CarroUitcs have pass'es was one of the reasons wh}"^ his team pla3-ed tluree games and won them all. The negotiated thirteen successful passes. . . Rockne scores were: Carroll, 13; Ex-CarroUites, 12. was a sure' tackier in the open. . . He was an 
Carroll, 27; Spiro's, o. Carroll, 30; G. P's, o. ideal leader and. his words of encouragement By virtue of their victor}^ over the G.,P's and to his teammates never failed to bring forth Spiros of South Bend, the Carroll hallers results." ^ claim the Northern Indiana, Championship New York Evening Mail. "Mr. Dorais in the 135 lb class, as these two teams had and Mr. Rockne of Notre Dame probably defeated all-other teams of that class. never set foot, on eastern soil.until they began 
-
 The men who are entitled to wear the QarroU making and catching forward passes all over Hall monogram are: AA^illiams, R. E.; Welch, it a month ago." 

L.
 E.; McGrath, R. T.; Bailey, O., Capt.; 



SCHOLASTIC, Dec. 19, 1903.—"Capt. Lou Soldani, R. G.; Perley, L. H.; Rokosz, C ; 
J. Salmon (fullback).. His fame as a line bucker Wood,il. H.; Grace, L.G.; Wolfe, F.; Oehm., 
punter, and all-round football player extends L. T; Vaquie, Keenan. 
from coast to coast, and the past two j^ears 
he was selected as All-Western fullback." 
Famous Frays Chicago Record -Herald, 1913. "Salmon placed on the AU-American All-Time Team b}'' 
G: W. Axelson. Salmon earned his place several New York Times, ^ Nov. i, 1913.—"The 
years ago when he hammered every line in the Notre Dame eleven .swept the Arm)'' off its West for so man}'' yards that even statisticians feet on the plains this afternoon, and buried -have been unable "to keep track of his gains. 
the soldiers under a' 35 to 13 score. . . . the That Salmon was able to cajry the ball nine ­Eastern gridiron has not seen such a master • times out of 'ten.'and to make his distance ever}'­of the forward pass as Charle}'" Dorais, the time stamps him. as the greatest line-plflnging Notre Dame quarterback. A frail youth of fullback in the histor}'- of the game and easil)'" 145 pounds, as agile as a cat and as restless as makes him the :choice; as the running mate : ajumping-jack; Dorais shot forward passes with for the' others." , . 

accuracy into the outstretched arms of his SCHOLASTIC, NOV. 3, 190b. (x4.fter the Indiana-
ends, .Capt. Rockne and_ Gushurst, as they Notre Dame game.)—-." Farley's playing created 
•stood poised for.the ball often as far as tljirt}'^­a ..sensation on :the side-lines, and Captain 
five yards away. . ... . the little quarterback .John is now; the football idol of two universities." 
displayed great judgment at all times, and.was never at a loss to take the Cadets by surprise. ScHOLASTic,-Dec. .2,'iS99; "The '99 varsity 
- He got around as if on springs, and-was as cool made a grand finish to their season last Thursda}'' 
as a ciicuniber on ice with the-forward: pass. when they lined up. against the hea\'3''-Physicians _ Half a dozen Army tacklers bearing down on and Surgeons'..team: of Chicago.: Weight and ' - him in full'charge didn't disconcert the quarter­-experience were,on'the vi'sitors' side. Everyone 
back ar bit." ,r; .-' - J.;. ; _ ; J '-^\ was a veteran whose worth-may be [estimated \'..-' : ..SCHOLASTIC, V Nov. 15, 1^13.—."Dorais,: the-,by-.-the:.fact) that,, an fjAll^ Western man -was = : great little general was completely outdone last forced tq remain on the side'lines as.a substitute. -;.?>:Monday." The'^football. teani,:-was tendered a: :.:..' .; .\-':Mullen; and^Farley,. our plucky little :/} f ,$anquet: at St:\ Mary's, after; which ihey;"were . ends; put up:ttie-kihd .of:football that one would :V. ,l;taken'tErdugh.r;thfe\building- by; a ^ :gq miles;,to see..i^Do-iTOVt^^ tliey ,ivent" : fv;; spite;: ;of "Dorais^:;, generalship,f.'theVteam^;_ never : -:af ter,; the;=heavy ;dbGto and'.brought - them., to" . :>vSj got Clearer thanja;; corridor/s lengthHoTohe-bf- the._ '.:theVgTOund-^vith;.asVneat?,tadk:les:-:^s:Ccould-;^^b.e:; ^ !EvitiM$tl3;Mary'sr stuHehts.:":vThe;^:St.>:Mar3?^ • .made.i'Av/;i'sMac'Donald,.aV."quarter^: was -very i|:%iwasr|orne"gederal: ;/Att^^ rmuchfiEu/eyidencea > 
" ~^vS''-'#''-'3; •''-«•"=--:-":.'•&-'fi::'~. 

remarkable, one kick measuring 825^ 3''ards, 
and another 6S yards. " • 
, - SCHOLASTIC, Oct. 15, 1S9S.—"John Kggeman was a whole game in himself. When we had 
- the ball, he made way for our backs to crawl ahead a few 3'-ards; when Illinois had the ball they could rush it until the}"- struck him, and then their, gain stopped. Coach Smith calls him .the greatest centre rush he ever saw." 
» SCHOLASTIC, NOV. 16, 1S89.—"On Thursday 
last the A^otre Dame eleven defeated the North­
western University of Eyanston, Illinois, by 
the score of 9 to o. It was the first game the 
bo3''s ever played outside of their own grounds. 
In the second half, Notre Dame had 

the kickoff, and Cartier having dribbled the 
ball the rushline closed in around hiin and as 
a "human wedge" .gained nearly 25 yards. 
Then the pla3''ing became harder than ever. 
The3'^ crossed and recrossed the field, and it 
seemed -that neither side could gain an3'­
advantage, and the half was nearly closed 
when Ed Coady and S. Fleming pla3-ed the 
neatest and most successful trick of the game. 
'Ed got the ball and hid it, and Steve, pretending 
to have it, set off across the grounds. Three or 
four- of the Northwesterns followed him, and 
Ed had a comparative^ clear road. He rushed 
through and made the only touchdown of the 
•game." SCHOLASTIC, NOV. 26, 1904.—"^Purdue wins championship.—After seventy minutes of des­perate fighting, the like of which Stuart Field has never^ seen before, Notre Dame was- com­pelled to relinquish her claim on the title as State Champions. Captain Shaughnessy pla3'ed his last game of college football and was the hero of. the da3'". Briiised and battered until he-could barely talk, he'fought, bucked, and squirmed past_the Purdue men for gains, time and again. On defensive-work little Nate Silver saved a number of scores by diving,into,.the Purdue interference and downing his man when , the-feat looked impossible. Our backs, Guthrie, Fansler, and Church," and later Waldorf and Bracken, tore great holes in the line. Fansler in'particular butting the line, hard and well. . McNerney also played a :great game even after he was badl3^, injured." . SCHOLASTIC, Nov. 20, ,1909.—'' Harry Miller— " After, all the papers,in the West have lauded the " HyprJc • of.-Our iRed to the skies we can hardly ' add tO'his fame. He is a.great player of course. 
The greatest halfback-in the West without a doubt and so the great Walter Camp pronounced him. Even the celebrated Yost, while, he watched his own team go down to defeat, said: "It was certainly,a treat and took some of the sting of defeat away to watch that Red-headed Irishman shake 'em off. His brilliant work in the baj^kfield earned him the place onjthe All-Indiana eleven for which he was unanimously chosen." • ,. 
"When Coach Longman was looking about for a man to back up the line, he wanted a. man who could tackle hard, and such a man who knew the game' thoroughly, and Rosie (Sam Dolan). was the man for the job. It was Rosie who stood behind our line and stopped the terrific plunges of the heavier Pittsburg backs. It was Rosie who shifted from side to side at Michigan, encouraging his teammates and plunging fearlessly into the difficult forma­tions of Yost's men, and it was Rosie again who was picked unanimously for the' All-State team." 
"Coach Harper of Wabash picked seven Notre Dame players on his All-State eleven. They V are Miller, Dolan, Dimmick, Collins^ Edwards, Philbrdok, and Lynch." 
Chicago Record Herald, 1913. "One man at" least knows how Rube Marquard feels when Baker comes to bat; he is the lone tackier who. stands between Eichenlaub of Notre Dame and a touchdown." , 
Ring W. Lardner, Chicago Tribune, 1913^ And Notre Dame you thoroughly convinced me.you were there. You whipped each tough opponent with, a bunch of points to spare. And if 'twere up to me to pick the country's all-star team,. "' ­I'd have old Gold and Blue for my prevailing color-scheme, . H.-Lace3'', ,.'i6, "Looking Backward!" "Have you a 'Back' to lead your push?' His croaking voice began, 'Or a midget Dory, to cop off glory From fields with foeman's blood made gory. 
.  Or.a single Finnegan?  _  
Have you a Pliska or a Jones,  [.  
A Feeney'or Lathrop,  "  
An Eichenlaub ito start the throb  •  •  
Of joy a-spurting through the mob  
When the other plungers  flop?  >,  ;  •  
A.-Gushiu-st holding down the w-ing,  
A Fitz stuck in between,  
A good old Keefe, and, to be. brief.  

Great subs?—No chaff in the wheated sheaf , Of these'Champs'-^Nin^teen thirteen 1" ; 
194 

third, period was largely a punting exhibition with 
Notre Dame 20; Nebraska 0. 

Dobson of Nebraska holding his own with DeGree, the giant expert from Hoosierland. Captain Cofall had retired from the game and much of. the fire in 
Revenge was sweet! On l^urkey-day the 

Notre Dame's attack seemed to depart with him. final 'curtain went down on the meditated 
There was a touchdown in this, period, the result of-a tragedy, "The 1916 Football Season;" and fumble back of Nebrasjca's twenty-yard line. Neither Notre Dame occupied the center of the stage. team would have been entitled to a score in that period 
on football. 
As a fitting finale, she walloped Nebraska by 
MILLER GETS REVENGE. 
the score of 20 to o, getting more than even 

The last quarter found Notre Dame renewing the 
for that last year's 20 to 19 defeat. Through 

battle. The triumph of Jesse Harper, Johnny Miller injuries a7id so jorth, Cofall and Bachman and the others and their revenge for the beating of . were forced to retire earl}'" in the game, else 1915 was' completed when Bergman pulled down a 
forward pass from Aliller and raced fifty-five yards 
the Notre Dame score would have been much 

to his second touclidowh. 
larger. Ever}- man on the team gave all he had, 

That forward pass was a work of art. Bergman 
and ever\^ man deserves a lot of credit for the 

grabbed it on the run and the diminutive speedster victor}' but Bergman was the individual star. had no trouble in eluding Cornhusker tacklers as he His speed}'- end runs, his agiHty in grabbing sped diagonally across the field. ^ I 
Notre Dame clearly outplaj'-ed Nebraska in most of, 
forward passes out of the air, his lightning open 

the game. Still it is doubtful that the team would have 
field running; in all of these he was at his best. 

won without Bergman. No other player on the squad 
An account from the Lincoln Journal follows: 

made, large gains or consistent gains. Nebraska's Nebraska's football hopes went down with the line withstood the heaviest charges of the enemy. declining sun Thursday' afternoon. The eight thousand Indeed it once flung'back the heavy invaders on the ^ - people who filed out of Nebraska field in the dusk ten-j'^ard line. With the ball in Nebraska territory, had witnessed the defeat of the Cornhuskers hy. Notre Notre Dame could not get through the line. It was 
Dame 20 to o. Bergman and Bergman alone who had the speed and 
•Notre Dame had the better team, but the cause skill to skirt the ends for.long gains. Once past the of the victory was speed, speed, speed in the backfield. outposts he was off'for a touchdown or at least a long Every man on the Nebraska squad can describe in . gain. Twice he flashed by Caley who was playing detail "the contour and color of Halfback Bergman's safety. The third time the doiighty little general of 
heels. the Huskers Avas prepared. Bergman was glad to retire in faA^or of a substitute when he.picked himself 
Nebraska showed a fe%v flashes of offensive strength up froin the sidelines. However, he had done his 
during the game, but Notre Dame's goal never was duty. He retired too late to help the Cornhuskers. 
seriously threatened. The Gornhusker's great claim to glory was on the defensive side. The monolithic Nebraska was whipped but not dishonored. -There line from Indiana was plaj'ed to a stand*still by the is no discounting the fact that Notre Dame presented 
_ lighter Nebraskans._ Rhodes, Corey, Cameron and the. superior team: That superiority was in the back-Riddell continuallj'^ broke through to spill those Hoosier field alone. Nebraska's line will rank with the best speeders for losses. ever turned "out by the Cornhuskers. Lack of excep­
On the offensive, it was the old off. tackle that tional speed among the backs and unusual speed in netted gains for the Cornhuskers. The forward passes tlie Notre Dame backfield was what made the which gained so nicely against Iowa were not tried. difference. , . , Then Nebraska resorted to those which had been tried THE BIGGEST CROAVD.­in previous games and though, ten were tried, not one . The game"attracted the largest croAvd QN^V assembled gained a yard. ' " . . .„ on-Nebraska field. Recollections of the battle of 1-915 
, ._ , :... SporLED FORWARD PASSES had - pulled them biit to the field to see a possible : Before the game Coach Harper of the visitors repetition of Nebraska's triumph. EA^ery. seat Avas had,said, "I'm,praying that Nebraska will try those taken, and at" either end ..AA'here' no bleachers A\'ere 
.forAvard passes." -, -proAdded there Avere «)oters standing "four and fiA'^e ' XHis prayers were as effective as his forrnations. deep. • " . ' ' ;'-;. -, . Nebraska tried the * flips which. Harper's, men had The cadet band, played just as cheerfully as ever, .'learned to break up and tliey"failed._ Only one had a but the rooters^AA'cre.; practically silent except for. the chance for completion and it was out of'bounds. involuntary.cheers"6r^groans called forth by some'play .. J ;The first two, periods provided the best part of'the on the field.-. -. • . ^ ' ':' _ /• '- :game.V'Notre.Dame started;a-parade downthe field ' ..The first.half ended AA'ith the score 6 to o in faA'^br of ,. . ' justas .the men" did last year arid a. touchdown Avas' the visitors.','The Nebraskaris had shoAvn so much"' 
*";; achieved almost-as quickly, as Jh the 1915 game. - Then power in their attacks on. the line that there Avere hopes = • ;Nebraska spriiced-^iip and for the:remaining moihents of.an eventual, triumph for Nebraska, Avhen,the tAvo ". 'of liie'fifit. half; made it'fifty-iifty." := > : -.' •squads , lined, up for the- second half. , This period 
:'< ^ThyVecond^half. was.-not so thrilling;< -Nebraska started auspiciously'and then carne a tragic fumble 
• ;.-Vs'ettied^;dpvra;to>;fighting vdoggei^ the .visitors .pre-near'the>tAv:entyf,yard?line'and?theVsubsequent Notre ;. •" r^yeiitiiig '.iieir^^^carrjringr the .ball to i;any ^extent. / The.;: Dame score'iT-Frbm then-on the case for:Nebraska was' 
' 
' 
­
\ 





m^m^mMm 
hopeless. The visitors didn't try their offensive to 
any extent, preferring to keep the ball in- Nebraska 
territory with DeGrce's long punts. In that last quarter 
the visitors again secured the ball near the middle of 
the field and launched the attack which wound up with 
the long forward pass and the final touchdown. 
In- addition to the touchdoAvn, Notre Dame made-

three attempts at field goals, all of them failing by 
wide margins. Miller tried a place kick from the 
fifteen-yard line and saw it blocked. Cofall tried a 
drop-kick from near midfield and it went wide. Miller 
toward the end of the game tried another place kick 
- and it too, went wide. BERGMAN IS DANGEROUS 
Bergman was the- great __ ground-gainer for the 

visitors. Around the ends or at the end of a forward 
pass he was good for most of -the big gains.. Like 
many another speed man, he showed a tendency to . 
run toward his own goal and it was that tendency 
which brought him grief once or twice. Riddell, 
Rhodes and ShaAv each took great pleasure in d6A\''riing 
him for a loss of from eight to twenty yards. 
Miller and Slackford did most of the gaining through 
the line on split bucks. 
Caley, the little field general of the Nebraskans, 
ran off most of the Nebraska's gains. With Johnny Cook running interference and Corey and Kositzky ' making a path for him, Caley usually was good for 
yardage. 
Otoupalik on the few occasions he was given the ball 
made good and his running mate, Dobson, also smashed 
his way through for neat gains. , ­
Bergman's first run for a touchdown was a pretty 
effort. Notre Dame had taken the kickoff to the west 
and DeGree punted after the first down. Dobson 
returned the kick to > midfield, the visitors making a 
nice, gain on the exchange. From midfield then, 
Notre Dame reached down the field, a sixteen j^ard 
pass, Cofall to Bergman helping. A fifteen-yard 
penalty for interference with a pass put the ball on 
Nebraska's ten-yard line and a Notre Dame score 
seemed certain-. However the visitors were repulsed 
in three attempts and Miller tried a place kick from 
the' fifteen yard line. Cameron broke through and 
spoiled it. 
PUNTS OUT OF BOUNDS 

Dobson's punt went out of bounds on the forty-four-yard line: Cofall gained but two yards through the left side, then Bergman took the oval and started around Nebraska's left end. -.Four men formed the Notre Dame interference and they cleaned up on .the buskers. Once clear of the first line, "Bergie" doubled back inside the secondarj-- defense and then hiked diagonally.for the goal line. He wasn't touched until ^ he liad slowed up on the other side of the chalk line. 
The next score came in the third quarter. Neither side could puncture the line and both sides were kicking. DfeGree!s last punt had landed on Nebraska's twentj-^-tAvo yard line. Cook and Caley dropped back to their favorite formation. The ball was passed, evidently to one of the fullbacks immediately' behind, the line. There was a brief struggle. Then Left-End Baujan emerged from the pileup and streaked'for the line, twenty-two yards,away.. 1'The last score was in .the third quarter.'.^Neither ­
side was gaining consistently and the punting duel was still on. Notre Dame finally secured the ball near the middle of the field, but a fifteen yard penalty set the squad back on its own forty-yard line. Two plunges netted five yards. Then came the long pass. Miller; to Bergman, and the fleet little halfback made his fifty-five yards to a touchdown without trouble. Miller, the man who failed to kick goal last year and thereby lost the game, was revenged when, his pass succeeded and the score had been run up to 19. It stayed there last year, if you remember.^ The same Miller arranged the ball for the goal kick. This time^ 
he made it and ran the score up to 20, the same number 
of points acquired by Nebraska  last year.  
Revenge  was  his.  .  '  ­ 
^  BETTER  TEAM  WINS  
To  one  who  witnessed  the  game  there  was  no  

question that the better team-won. It was the better"­team because it had some elements which Nebraska lacked. 
Statistics coinpiled at the end of the game showed . that Nebraska had nlade but eighty-nine yards in scrimmage, while Notre Dame had run off three hundred , and twentj'-four. . ­
Not one of Nebraska's ten forward passes con­nected. Five of eight attempts by Notre Dame were successful and the total gain was one hundred and one yards—an average of twenty yards" to the pass. The penalties were even, each side being set back fifty yards. Notre Darhe made eleven first downs..' Ne­braska made four excluding one completed with the aid of a penalty. • • 
The Notre Dame squad was banqueted by the. Catholic Students' Club after the game. The men will have another banquet in Chicago on the way home. 
The Comhuskers will select their captain next week after the , athletic board has awarded them their letters. , ­
THE GAME IN DETAIL 

Captain Cofall won the toss for Notre Dame and chose to defend the west goal. Captain Corey kicked to Miller, who returned the ball 12 yards to Notre Dame's 27-yard line. Miller went around right end * for a yard. DeGree punted 56 yards.-An exchange pf punts netted the visitors a gain of 11 yards. Three-line plunges were good for a total of 10 yards but-'in the meantime the visitors had suffered a 5-yard penalty. ­A forward pass, Cofall to Bergman, was good for liS ­yards, and the ball was advanced.another 15 yards on a Nebraska penalty for holding. -Miller .twice failed to gain, but another forward pass, Bergman to Miller, was good for 4 yards. Miller's atternpt to place* kick was blocked by Cameron, giving Nebraska the ball on its i^-yard line. Dobson punted out of danger, the ball going out of bounds after a flight of 45,yardsi. , Cofall's 2-yard smash through the Tine was followed-, By a brilliant run by Bergman for 42 yards and; a.:-, touchdown. Cofall kicked out to jMiller,-who failed 5' to hold the ball. Score: Notre Dame 6. Nebraskja 0. ^ ' 
Corey's kickoff which went to the eneniy's ii-yard ?­line Avas retum'ed 35 yards by Bergman. • Millerfs •.; 4-yar'd gain Avas more than offset by a 5-yafd penalty! v An exchange of punts between I DeGree and.:D6bson'v netted the Huskers a gain of' 23 yards. Phelan iiego-:: tiated a'gain "Of yards. 'DeGree's 40-yard pimt was 
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
disallowed when Bachman slugged Cameron and set his team back half the distance to the goal. Cofall hit,the line for 3 yards and DeGree punted out of bounds to Nebraska's. 33-j^ard line. Caley, Otoupalik and Dobson advanced the ball a iotal of 13 yards on line plunges. Cook, Caley, Dobson and Otoupalik carried the sphere another 23 yards in another series of pretty smashes. The quarter ended with the ball in Nebraska's possession on the-enemji^'s 15-yard line. 
The second -quarter opened with the Nebraska rooters feeling sure that their favorites would score. Their hopes were short lived.. A double pass. Cook to Caley, Avas fumbled and Caley was down on the 20­3'ard line. The ball then went to Notre Dame on downs. Miller and Cofall made 10 yards on tAvo plunges, but Shaw spilled Miller for a 6-3'^ard loss. Following two unsuccessful" attempts to penetrate Nebraska's stone Avail, Notre Dame punted to Calej' on Nebraska's 32-yard line. Caley and Otoupalik Avere good for 7 yards, and then Dobson punted to Bergman, A\'ho Avas doAA'ned on the. A-isitor's 22-yard line. After Miller had made 3 3-ards through the right side, Bergman circled right end for 2S j'ards. Nebraska had cause for more grief Avhen the Huskers Avere giA'^en a lO-A'ard penalty. Miller and Phelan had little success in getting through the line, but Bergman Avas good for 5 yards. 
' A series of short gains' Avas foJloAved by a 12-yard forAA-ard pass, Cofall to Bergman. TAVO line smashes netted only 2 yards, and Bergman Avas hurled back for no gain. Unable to penetrate the Nebraska line, the A-isitors attempted another place kick, but the aim AA'as bad. 
From the tA\'enty-yard line Dobson punted fifty-eight yards. Miller failed to gain, but Cofall crashed througli for foiu" yards. Bergman Avas thrown by Riddell for a twenty 5'ard loss. DeGree punted to 
•Nebraska's fort3''-yard line, and Caley returned the ball eighteen yards. Two forward passes by Dobson were incomplete, and so he punted to Notre Dame's six-3'^ard line. DeGree came back Avith a punt to Ne­braska's-forty-nine-j'^ard line. Miller intercepted a fonyard-pass frorri Dobson." Slackford made four yards 
.on tAA'O plui3ges. A forward pass, Phelan'to MiUer, was good for fourteen yards. • The half ended with the ball in Notre Dame's possession on Nebraska's forty-four ;yard fine. " . 
-. THE SECOND^ HALF. ­
• . At the opening of the second half Otoupalik returned Miller's kickoff tA\'enty-fi\:e yards. Cook and, Caley 
- gained a total offiAJ^e yardsT Dobsoii punted to'Phelan. . . Corey spilled Bergman for a^ five yard loss. Two more attemptsnetted two yards for Notre Dame; .DeGree. > : punted.and.^ihe ball rolled to .Nebraska's twenty-tAA'o­
yard\H?s-;,^sbraska.Avasl penalized five-yards; for I pfF-side. ; Baiijan recovered; a fumble . on - Nebraska's 
• seventeen-yard Tine and raced OA'^er, the/lini; for. a .toiiclidowny-Miller iicked goal: Score: .Notre -Dame,' 
• ,?3y .^^l^raska, o.. •/; K-; V - -v .; - .,., ? . ' '': .--.• '• r:: :There^.was no, more scoring in. that gt|arter.' Foyl the ­iireis^bfi'theiperipd it; Avas aj.repetitibh "of.'tfie first tAvo 
.~i (-guELTters; .both;; sides being-fprced tp..purit. when /they'­iJ-^Avere'tnimable-to^r^ in-i tidrVopppnents'j Jines. ­.3j^oUpwin'g/i'a sen 
} r.^itOiJCook;: iCaiey/a^ i;'l*lme.smashes^q£^6;iy^^^^^ 
made small gains and then returned the punt. Another series of Nebraska emashes, and another punt. The quarter finally ended Avith" the ball in Notre' Dame's possession on its 20-yard line. 
FoUoAving DeGree's punt to the Nebraska 46-yard line at the opening of the final quarter, Dobson Avent through the line for 4 yards on a fake punt formation. A forAvafd pass Avas incomplete, but Caley Avent through for 2 yards. Dobson punted, Notre Dame Avas unable to gain, and Phelan punted. TAVO forward passes by Corey Avere incomplete. Again 'the old story, Dobson punted. DeGree did the same after his teammates had failed to get through the''line, and Dobson again punted after he had missed a bad pass from centre and had been doAvned On the 14-yard line. 
The final score came at this point. Phelan Avas doAvned on Nebraska's 42-yard line after receiAang 
. Dobson's punt. Notre Dame was penalized 15 yards for holding. Slackford made "4 yards through the line. Miller added a'yard. A forAvard pass, Miller to Berg­' man,- Avas good for 55 yards and a .touchdoAvn. Miller kicked goal. Score, Notre Dame, 20: Nebraska, o. • 
The. Nebraskans, hopelessly beaten, ''then' settled doAA'n doggedly to prevent more scoring. Corey kicked off to the enemy's 5-yard line. The kick Avas disalloAved because Nebraska had been offside, and Corey tried it again. .-This, time the ball Avent to the 20-yard line and from there Slackford returned it thirteen yards. Miller added eleven yards through the left side. Three small gains, and a forAvard pass from Phelan Avas broken up by Riddell. 
Nebraska took the ball on-doAvns on Notre,Dame's 4S-yard line. A forAvard pass from Corey Avas incom-­plete. Another from the same source Avas intercepted by the Adsitors on their- 34-yard line. Plunges by Phelan and Slackford netted eleA'en yards. On a double pass, Bergman Avent around left end for thirty-two yards. Miller added four yards. Phelan attempted to place kick from .the 34-yard line but the ball Avent Avide of the -mark. Nebraska Avas given the sphere on its 2-yard line. - Dobspn punted to Phelan oif Notre Dame's; .45-yard" line. Phelan returiied four yards. Phelan punted to .Nebraska's 35-yard line., Caley failed to gain. . Dobson punted to Miller, Avho was d^Avned on Notre Dame's 40-yard line. The ball had ­scarcely touched the groiihd AA'hen the Ayhistle blcAV for the end of the game and the season. " 
The line up:. :-.  -.  •. ,. .  ­ ­ 
NEBRASKA,  O;  ;.  ­.  .  NOTRE  DAME,  20  
Co'rey._:.,.....  ^^.„.:.l  :--D E­  -c—.,.-„-.:„,....:.Baujan  

Xositzski..:.:—:.-:--...-...--:.:::..^ T-...:.;--- ......^.Coughlin 
- Rhodes ...1..^.^.. 1..I; G:...—.... ;...:..„Bachmah Cameron.—1........;:.„. .„.„:. G...^;................:....RydzeAvski 
, Wilder„^^-.„..i.jJ.:-„.:::.cj.-.R G.~,..:J^.., ...L..IDeGree. ShaAv>..„.„:^.;„..:..;:„„.I:....:RT.:„:....,:..„::.l..'..;;:...Philbin., Riddell_^.„::-:2.„.:.:^.,:„„,R .E-.4-----:--~---"-Whipple 
- Caiey-;^..^-:^^-^—:i^-il---I/ H,..:.^:^:.:! ;„..^JCofall 
Otont>aBk^:::^;L.tLl5^^-iJ.Q„l..:,._i-__:..„..„.,.J,^Phelan ­Dobson—:^f4;ljii.jil.:l:.;;^lFlL.:.£:::lii:.:lJi^l;..„. Miller:^ r Score by-periods":;;" ;-;«-;'.;; NebraskaJ';.lil£'.I:I.T.;lii„v.i.iI.I 
..---.-O;- O ,-O , Orj-.. O 

Referep^Quigley/^StC Mary's:;;^^^ Eax\-r ham.i-Fieid|judge#^ -•.ex-Michigari;; Head lineir 1 
•<"'* '-J^^; 

;:-M^ti^im^?i<^ 
^ms 
SI 


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
197 

man—Masker, ex-Northwestern. Time of periods—. 15 minutes each. Notre Dame scoring: Touchdowns— Bergman (2,), Baujan. Goals from touchdown—Miller 
(2). -. -^ 
Substitutions—Nebraska: Selzer for Otoupalik. Notre Dame: Ward for Bachman; Andrews for CoughHn; Slackford for'Cofall; Malone for Bergman; Mclnerny for Pliilbin; Meagher for Whipiile'; W. Miller for J. Miller. 
FIGURES ON THE GAME Yards from scrimmage. Quarters 
1234 T'tl-Nebraska 51 7 25 -6 S9 Notre Dame .86 .86 15-137 324 
First downs (including touchdowns): Nebraska 3010 '4 Notre Dame 2405- 11 
Passes completed: 
Nebraska  :  o  o  "~"o  o  '  o  
Notre Dame..l  ^.. 22 0  1  5  
Passes failed:  
Nebraska  '.  o  3  2  5  10  
Notre Dame  o  o  0. 3  3  
Penalties:  
Nebraska  ._:  ..  15  25  10  o  50  
Notre Dame  .30  5  01 5  50  
- Forward pass gains:  
Nebraska  0 00  0  o  
Notre Dame  20  26  o  55  10r  

Book Review. 

THE NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC GUIDE. The 
University - Press, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Price, , 50 cents. 

In February, 1902, there was published at the University a volume called the "Notre Dame Athletic Almanac," a book which contained the names of those who had the best records annually in the various track events dvu-ing a period-of twenty years; the book contained also the names of those who had made the Varsity teams and likewise the scores made in games with teams from outside. ~ " • 
Six years later there was published-^another sum­marized account of the activities of the University teams, a book in which special attention was given to the classification of the scores of'all games between 
• Notre Dame and other colleges. There was no attempt made to give the names of the players who represented Notre Dame. , 
Now, for the first time, we have at the University'' a published volume which gives us not only the scores and names of monogram players in all, our intercol­legiate games but, alsd the addresses of the' players in a section of the "book called the Directory. As a source of,material for a complete history of the'^inter­collegiate activities'of Notre Dame athletic teams, "The Notre Dame'Athletic Guide" is highly valuable. The section called the .Directory gives the addresses and years of- monogram-membership oh teams for the entire, range of- intercollegiate competition at Notre Dam'e, dating back to the fall of 1887. To this list, . by way .of correction, should be added the name 
of Joseph T. Lantry, football, 1906-1907, now a promi-^ nent contractor at Tulsa, Oklahoma. ";• 
The second section of the volume contains the: monogram membership of each "year's team: in foot­ball since 1887, in track since 1890, i^ baseball "since 1S92, and in basketball since 1898. In each case there is given.also the name o! the state and cityTrom which-; the individual player came at the time he became a member of the team. Following this s'ection is a list of the scores made in all games played by the teams given in the monogram list. This list, by the way, contains the names of many of the old-time players who were officially recognized as monogranx men by action of the faculty board of control at a meeting 
" held last May. ' In the section of the book given over to - traclc' affairs the'exact number of points made by each con-, testanl is given, regardless of the fact of his earning a, monogram or. not. Under the heading "Best Track, Records" are included Varsity Indoor Records,. Varsity Outdoor Records, Notre TDame Gymnasium Records, Cartier • Field Records, Interhall Indoor-Records, - Interhall Outdoor ' Records, Preparatory School Indoor Records, and Preparatory Out­door Records,—in each case the latest relay performance being the only one listed. " -. There is a section ,of the book devoted to the names of the captains of the teams, another section to the managers, and another to the coaches. There are about sixty names' given in a list of those who, after being students, at Notre Dame, have' become members of prominent professional baseball' clubs, twenty-rthree names being , taken frojoi the ' National League. Tn like manner there is given a list of those who have obtained recognition as athletic instructors, the number of names being again about sixty. ; " . ^ There is also a section devoted to the rides governing, athletics at jSTotre Dame, and finally an account of-the ­organization and a transcript of the constitution of the. Notre Dame Monogram Club. ' . . " 

Safety Valve. 

DAVENPORT, IA., NOV. 29, 1916. DE.A.R EDITOR-OF SAFETY VAI,VE:— . - .: 
I saw from the columns of the SCHOLASTIC that I ~ again have been made a target of your mirth-pro-; voking pen. Your witty_ ditty is captioned "Erich < Hans Come .Back.", The body is wilUng but the , spirit, is weak. So I'll migrate back in spirit... I woiild,^ 
'-.->•:

like to ^.dvise the building commission of the libraigr;.^ as follows: I would \\-iIlingly purchase a flag pole for," the Asylum, of Books, but, as the war has "caused., prices on everything to aviate, I will Bave to desist; 7 and anyway flag'poles come pretty high.^ They should ;.i haye put" up the flag pole.first, and. then put.up:jthe.%: building, under it. If I remember rightly, ther.e are,> on the Campus two flag staffs tha.t'have "light occu-.:: pations." One is on the boat House (home „qf ithej-; University Canoers) and the other, one is on Cartieir^-. Field. The one on "Eichenlaub Field-would, makeJa-; ^ky-piercing spectacle, perched upoiLthe new stxuctui:e.f:jT The Oracle at Delphi jiist hieroglyphed tormejthat ^ 
•af 
1 '"• :• K-A V :^ *^n* -^5* 




THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
the best thing to do in your dilemma Avould be to send out '-'Doc" Cook, he undoubtedl}' would discover a Pole for 3'ou. 
I have had blue prints made of all these suggestions, and will gladly furnish details as to the realization of your Polar wants. Please do not consider this letter a "crepe hanger," but merely a chat for old time's sake. A Big U. N. D. for all the boys, 
Verj'^ sincereh' j'ours "SHORTY." "1915 Goat of the Column" Originally burdened with the appellationT ERICH HANS DE FRIES. 
P. S. I dare j'ou to print this letter.* 
THE  TEAM.  
Adam Brungardt..  Centre  
Michael Murphy  ....Right Guard  
James Malone  _..".  ...Left  Guard  
Bernard Heffernan  „..  Right Tackle  
Alonzo Finnup  ;  Left Tackle  
Shorty Quinlan..  _  .-  ....Right End  
Rubio  .^.  Left End  
LeRo3' Schinkoeth  Quarterback  
Air. Murphy  Right  Halfback  
Mike  ,  Left  Halfback  
" Murph "  _-.  Fullback  
We  have  placed  Adam  Brungardt  at  Centre,  on  

account of his ability to make himself misunderstood, thus confusing the other plaj-ers. Adam is the first man—on the Brownson team and Eve finds him as fresh as he was in the early Morning. On account of his not being a regular sophomore—according to his own statement he is taking the course .of gasoline this year—he is not playing on the Varsity. Adam can keep silence in seven languages or can gurgle forth in all seven at the same time, reminding one of the busy "busy" signal on the telephone. It is for his . great proficiencj' at eating fish and absorbing the tails that he is best known among us. In using his first name care should be taken not to separate the first letter from the last three, however strong the 
• temptation may be. 
.Michael Murphy goes to Right Guard on account of his travelogue ability: Murphy can go right through an oration on himself in the largest audience without giving any one a chance to get a Avord in. There is no department of football, baseball, higher mathe­matics, Hebrew or long division in which Murphy has not excelled, and we are not guessing at this either. We know it for a fact, because he told us so himself. His line would ta"ke his opponents completely olF.-their feet, ontorhis feet or head but they couldn't stand his modest way of belittling himself and must succumb. . ; 
James Malone goes to Left .Guard for his ability to : talk like ;five-in-a-be*d/ to people who have not asked him to join their company. He payed a license 
-of ten dollars some-two years ago for, the priAnlege' of being a' public nuisance and he is making the.best of the ]privilege. If .there is anything you .don't;Avant to.know or haven't time to hear Malone mil insist ^ oh orating it to .you in his own mixed up way, and^if 
;*-Noting too tough for us. ...J. :-i- ^• 

you break a book over Jiis head in self defense he's 
a friend of yours for life, and will visit you daily. 
•He has nothing but a howling wilderness above his neck but then his neck" is so long that he doesn't care. He rushes in with hob-nailed boots where angels fear to tread and exits just as" quickly on another portion of his anatomy. 
Bernard Heffernan goes to Right Tackle and deserves 
special mention as this is his second year on the team. 
He was formerly cheer leader in an old ladies' home 
and was so popular that he was made athletic director 
in a hospital for incurable cripples. From thence 
he rapidly rose to teacher of vocal expression in a 
deaf and dumb asjdum. He can use the deaf and 
dumb-bells and thp injun clubs with grace and ease. 
He is a tall, dark complexioned, lean, long, lanky, 
cadaverous, son-of-a-sap-sucker who joined the Repub­
lican party when its leaders began to give out cam­
paign- cigars. He is to carry concealed in his football 
suit a copy of the song that Kanaley and Cartier can 
sing. This he will wave defiantly in the face of oppo­
nents until they sink unconscious. He 'come' from 
Washington, Ind. 
Alonzo Finnup fits in at Left Tackle because he is 
an old fish with only one fin and that always turned 
up. He would have been an orator or a policeman 
in ancient daj's had he never come to like hamburger 
sandwiches. As it is he has the Jiamburger spirit 
which %rill not down—any more than the hamburgers. 
He dearly loves' onions and can be recognized at 300 
paces. We dare you to tackle him. 
Shorty Quinlan who \n\\ play Right End needs no 
introduction. All he needs is a hair-cut and a cap 
that will sit straight oh his head. He acted for some 
years as head rooter at a correspondence school and 
Avas a complete success. He is to wear a white duck 
suit and carry a basket so that he'will be recognized 
by the fans in the stands: When making end runs he 
will be allowed to put the ball in the basket and carry 
a hand mirror in his left hand so that he may see 
himself as others see him. 
Rudolph who easily made last year's team was 
disqualified this year on account of his class standing. 
He flunked in Arithmetic and Elocution. His place 
therefore goes to Rubio who is a veritable whirlwind ' 
at running back punts, and at eating beefsteak at the 
training table? He has a wonderful head for running 
a team and could run it into the~ ground when the 
captain happened to be absent. Opposing players 
Avould mistake him for the.tackling dummy and would 
pass by him without stopping his progress. He likes 
graham'bread and prunes and has a regular mania for 
having the dentist drill holes in his teeth. 
LeRoy Schinkoeth has never, seen a football, caniiot 
take two steps without tripping 6n_ his own feet, 
never knew, or could learn a signal irihis life but other-­
wise he is a wonderful footballs player and easily ­
deserves'a place at Right End; ' 
"- If there are any.places that are not yet filled.th^y Avill be^ cared "for by. the. same aforementioned Mike Mui-phy of Soiin ;Who^has played and says he can play any position. At a signal from, th'e Quarter, -Mike will drop out of the-line and do.the work for the backfield. He will shine too as a'Kicker. . • 
V 


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
200 

Old Students* Halt—Subscriplions to December 9,1916 Joseph J. McCaffery, '16 Walter P. McCourt,.:i6 
The following subscriptions for Old Students' Hall were re­ceived by Warren A. Cartier, Ludington, Michigan, treasurer of the M. J. McEniry, '81 building committee: Thomas J. Shaughnessy, '15 
$2000.00 -William P. Higgins, '03 James F. O'Brien, '13 Samuel T. Murdock, 'S6 James Frederick Coll, '89 Michael L, Fansler, '04 Siooo.oo George jr Hanhauser, '01 -• A. C. Fortin, '01 Thomas B. Fitzpatrick James P. Fogarty, '00 Daniel J. O'Connor, '05 -P. T. O'SuUivan, '68 Rev. John B. McGrath. 'So M. H. Miller, '10 , •; . 
•Rev.
 E.vJ. McLaughlin, '75 John F, Fennessej% '99 William D. Jamieson, '05, 

M.
 F. Healy, '82 Cyril J. Curran, '12 Grover F. Miller, '16 John C. Shea, '98 Ernest E. L. Hammer, '04 Thomas A. McLaughlin, '16 Clement C. lilitchell, '02 Alfred J. Pendleton, '97 Edwin H". Sommerer, '16 Byron V. Kanaley; 'oj. Edwin Wile, '74 Joseph O'SuUivan Daniel P. Murphy, '95 Francis C. Schwab, '02 Jacob E. Eckel, '16 John V. Lauth, '68 Rupert F.vMills, '14 Vincent Mooriey, '16 


S500.CO ' William H. McCarty, '99 John T. Shea,''o6 Robert Sweeny, '03 Edward Jl Gliiln, 'li Edward M. Schaack. '93 ^ 
C. A. Paquette. '90 Frank P. Crowley. '09 Anton C. Stephan, '04 Rev. John Dinnen, '65 Thomas B. Currj% '14 Dr. F. B. McCarty, '07 Warren A. Cartier, '87 James A. Curry, '14 Harry F. McDonagh, '10' Stephen B. Fleming, '90 , Harry V. Crumley, '03 Charles W. Lahe3', '13 Thomas Hoban, '99 Harry S. Cahill Adam J. Kasper,. '95 -"" . Angus D. McDonald, 'co Walter V. Heekin George W. Kasper,.'95 
'William A. Mclnerny, '01 William McKenzie Robert A. Kasper,. '07 Joseph M. Byrne, '14 . Charles Girsch, '94 
Rev. Bernard P. Munay, 
Mark M- Foote, '73 

Cassius McDonald, '04. Gerald A. Fitzgibbon, '07 
Patrick J. Houlihan, '92 

William P. Breen, '77 John-B. Fruechtl, '04 
Student from Far West E. J. Maurus, '93 Hugh J. Daly. '12 
Rev. I. E. McNamee, '09 Edward K. Delana, '.13 
Thomas J. Swantz. 
04, 
H. G,. Hogan, -'04 

C. C. Craig, '85 Harry Curtis, '08 .­
.Harold P. Fisher, '06 

Frank E. Hering, '98 " Charles CuUinan, '07 
John B. Kanaley, '09 

Peter P. McElligott, '02 Daniel Cullinan, '07 
James J. Conway, '85 James F. Hines, '09 Dr. W. P. Grady, '99 
George Cooke, '90 Edgar Crilly, 'go • ' -•
John B. MclklaJhon, '09 Rev. John M. Byrne, '00 

§250.00 George S. Crilly, '88 ' ' ' 
- J. H. Gormley, '03^ 

John H. Neeson, "03 • ' James V. Cunningham. '07 •" 
Thomas O'lSreill, '13 

Joseph B. Naughton :97 M. H. Milier, '10 Robert E. Proctor, '04 
Peter Kuntz Frank X. Cull,'08 ':[^'
^ John F.p'Connell, '13 

John H. Fendrich, "84 Jesse E. Vera, '10 Frank- C. Walker, '09 
John Eggernan,' '00 Walter^Duncan", '12 ^ 
Rev. Gilbert Jennings, 

A. A. McDonell, '00 'oS James-W. O'Hara, '13 -. 
. - .George O'Brien, .'90 

Eugene A. Delaney, Joseph Collins, '11 
99 
:. Vitus Jones, '02 ,

R. A. O'Hara, '89 . Dr. H. G. McCarty, 'ra 
' . , ; W. A.-Duffy. 'oS 

$200.00 James' Dubbs." '06 ' 
W. G. Uffendell , ' Rev. J. H. Guendling, 14 RaymbiidE.rSkelly,'11 John O'Shea.-'it Fred C. McQueen,'00 • Williarn R. Ryan. '11 . 
-James F. Kennedy, '94 • . Charles J. Stubbs, '88-William A. McKearney, '08 Louis C. M. Reed, .•98' . ' Rupert" Donavan; '08 •'•'"•'-$75.00" • -,,.-; Francis O'Shaughnessy, ' o ' \ Rev.:Francis H. Gavisk, '14 John W. Costelld, ' 12 " ,, ' Joseph J. Sullivan, '02 " 'Rt."R^v. Frank O'Brien, '95' ,~ ...$50.'96,. . J•-.-•"' 
G. A.'Farabaugh, '04;. "-^ i Frank L.' McOsker, "72 William Fish, '12 ,-> -" " Robert-Anderson, '83 ;, -' -. ;_ Charles E.'RuflSng, '85 .. -J. Clovis" Smith '14 Joseph Lantry, ^07 ; C ; - James F. Foley, '13 . , Frank' B. Cornell, '00 Rev. F. J. Van Antwerp, 14 Rt. Rev. T.~ C. O'Reilly, '09 ., Rev-'John Schopp,'94-• John •Dowd, '99 -• ., . ; Thomas J. Welch, [05 A,-J.Major,'86 •, Rt. Rev. Thos. F. Hickey, '03 r^ -William E. Cotter, '13. _ 
Charles Vaugh'an,'14 • 
'Christopher C. Fitzgerald, '94 ./ John C. Tuily,:'ii .( " Stephen H.'Herr,.'10 " .• 
-J. N. Antoine, '70 , ' .\-: "/ F. A.KauI, '97 : -John F. O'Connor, '72. 
-. Rev. Thomas Cleary, '09' -William Hoynes, '77 _ --. /. T. P. 0'Sullivan,'o2. 
Edwin J. Lynch.- "lo . x ; :- ;.G. M. Keirndt, '82 Fred Stewart,''12 , • . ' ^ >.i, Tl X).;Mott, '95 -' ,-..: -, •-•,-'Dr.'FrankJ. Powers, '94 , Jay Lee,'i2'--" -• :,;',.,"'" c F.Henry Wurzer, '98_ ^ :,%' • RW . Jphn,Talbot'Smith, '07,. Albert F.-'Gushurst; '<Sg,-f-' PaiilRi Martin,'13 -7: 5^.r iDaniel Cl.Dillon 7; ''~\ . " ; - Edward P. Clearyi'.'og,-'V£ .
 -" 
Timotliy V. Ansberry,''93 . rP^i-Thomas C. Butler,-'p8 J . Rev. John J. Bjirker '83 ".^^ ; ­

• John M. Oiiinlaii, '04 . -:/ ' -^1^.- s.' Edward M. Kennedy, '06-'^' •^Rev.iM. Lr Moriarty, 'id-.-. -," , Darnel Madden.- '06: '.-.-hi'l^.e-}';':'-- ijohn J..Kennedy, '09.• . 
i Rev. J.-E..Sculiin"; '09, ,.n,"^" --;-;;".;• y,'Peter Mi:Ragan, '92 
;Fred J.'Kasper,-'04 .:^;?'-- Rev.:John :P.\ Quinn, .'83'. - V.4 : i,~s->-/'James D.-Barry,'-'97,;' - '• ',. 
J.'S: Corby, '98", • ;.v=>. -.:; Simon E.'LTwinirig, '13.-"-,":--. ­:-'':.^{'"';f.FredJ,;-Steers;;,'ii\nV^^^^^^^ 
./riipmas St«neri-*99 ^l^a",;­'r-.Vx-•:.^"* Walter"Clements,'_;.i4'i^' :-V"T _ '­

;Jqbn~F^: Gushing, '06 "';i-:t§ ' ' Ce'ciLE^'Birder,7'i4;': V"^^^^ ^>:.;f7"EdwardJ. Carlton, U'6 - t^f; "
•%v.^" i'i- --;$i5o.oo;-"-%V:"'""_, * ;, >i..Eminett?WaltCT;.^^^^^ ,; T-''•? i-'- ^il-ebriard M.': Carroll,-';'16-',. J5';': 
'Revc'Micliael Shea; .:o4-^.. ;/Ralph.Eb'erKartj.'/o2:vi^^^^ 
"Ambrose O'Cbnriell, :;:'^'V^Luke>Li;JKeiiyr 'i!^-'.-£^^^'^'.'-',''fi^: Rev;'; joh'n'jM^' Gerenda,*.'o9'}?«V ^William Byrne, ?95' Swtft/;'i(5 tC''-?>r5.i.-':' i' Timothy P."'GaivinV"'i6'5;5,R?r! 
--"^:;' ^•^~'
James^L^Tong; '94^ i^£ii^¥Sf_C^^:;Jiiattzi Ji6^-p .' J^Ray:_M.;Humphreys,'vi6j.=:.7.t••:^ Wi A. Drap^> '06 £ !i 6 Hugh-EvCMroll, 'lis .j;'^.-; " '.f -Edward C; Ryan,,'i6 •J ;JesW C.Harper .>'•:', .",'
•"'-,' 1 -^'^•'' '\'-'''\fi^'9-'^°i'}' C. /-:; ' .;•.}.;, '­^Maximilian St; George •08.. '-James^Francis Odem;\'i6 ,; .''-Ronald S; p'Neiil,;'14 7/^^^^^^^^^^ 
:\. i>~-':''-:i:: '.'$100.00 '}Ji: -Emmett P. Miilholland,."'i6; •\; Lbiiis'P."; Har],'s'i6;i '^-/'•':l i [ :M.^p;^Burns" '':<_. '-: . Thbmas-A:..Ha3res, '16 -^. -"' . Joseph:J)lTLbvada,'^'i^~-'": '^y J. F. Delph, '16 Hugh O'Donnell, '16 James Sanford, '14 Ira W. Hurley, '14 
. Emmett G. Lenihan, '15 Francis H. Haj'es, '14 
- E. P. Cleary, '09 Raymond J.'Kelly,'16 Ernest P. Lajoie, '15 Rev. P. J. Crawley. '95 Arthur Pino, '06 William Milroy. '13 Dr. Robjrt FrosC '02 Eustace Berry, '03 A Friend from the South Daniel Shouvlin, '14 
N. $40.00 Gerard N. Krost, '04 
$25.00 Joseph M. DeLone. '02 Simeon T. Flanagan, '14 
W. B. McLain, .'04 Lawrence Janszen Rev. A. A. Lambing, '83 -James M. Riddle, '13 
. Henry Hess, '82 Dr.-E. M. McKee, '06 ' Robert B. Gottfredson, 'i^ Rev. John H. MuUin, 'ii ; L N. Mitchell Sr., '92 ".Frederick Williams,'13 Rev. Joseph Toth, ' n • -Joseph M. Walsh, '14 ~ Max Adler, '89 Jbhn G. Mott, '95 Rev. T, O. Maguire, '09 -Paulji Smith, '16 
C. I: Krajewski, '16 " , Jpseph P. Flynn, '16 '.John P. Gonboy, '16 
W. W. Turner, '16 Alfred Fries, '16 ' 
J. A. McCarthy, '16 
-J. Harry Sylvestre, /1 6 Harold P. Burke,'^'16 Peter C. Yerns, '16 
- Fred M. Pralatowski, '16 Francis J. Kilkenny, '12 : .EdwardL. Figel,'ii Thomas J. Dooley. '97 
^-• MMTk A. Devine, '10 Daniel E_. Cponey. '10 Fremont Arnfield.'ia 
:W."W. Harless,.'86 ' Edward J. Walsh, '00 . Thomas Ciirfan,'16 
--1. . -, -. ---\ _ 
. • ' ... $20.00 
• Gabriel Davezac, '94 ' " Jamfes R. Devitt, '13 Albert A." Glbeckner, '16 
>v-V'""-«X-.;^''..- ^$15.00 '­
•..Bernard Diirch,*"'i3 ." '•y.'. \''^^.' $10.00 .'-.'' .^ 
j: P.rj.' O'Connell. '73 ; V.Paul-.Tl-jVIarkey .'1" 
•'--Edwar.d-J^'Markey ',­"' Alfredyignos. '95 r ­... "Andrew L.,Shimp, '91 
.I.Ffanlf Niedecken, '09 • .-tf Harry. Kirk,-'i3." • 
•
i:,L6uis.Chute, '92 • • - f > ;v5J-'j-Deasey, '06. ; ., '%H.. King';-'i6 ;;.4/jaines E.; Roach, •.16 

•:gj5ErjHogan,-'ie
 . 


''"-'V ;;-.". .• ts-oo ;. '-.^^ 
,- Robert D. Murphy, 'oi 
*
 fjMark Duncan, ."15 'T-. _ • 

f.
 Hiram Halliday, '06 -i-ClaudeS. Moss,"'9S -' 



.RevrMichael-Ryani.^'gS Frank J. HiK„*i6 '*;::>:-' ; rPatrick-Maloney, 'I6'\K \-,,,'i. .,'J -. Vjoin»;Bell, '08, J ' 
'-"--,«' :''f '^^^i^mrn.
mm^muf^vMxS,•iS^?\ 
A~r' •"'.> -Z. 
•"'•;' 

'mmii^mi 

^:'^?^S­

mm M 







^^^:<^^-'^--::C'^<:-\>^::::M 
ameMcbolastic 
DISCE-QUASI-SEMPER-VICTURVS"VIVE-QUASI- CRAS-MORITVRVS 
VOL. LI. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER I, 1917-No. 10. 
Well Done. 

BY C. t,. 
yO-DAY the boys are laurelled With glories richly won. In east and west they gave their best, And now the fighting's done_ We tell them to their face we're proud Of every mother's son. " 
But while we greet these heroes, Let's lift another "toast To the football men who left us ^ To join a greater- host. The team whose line across-the land . Reaches from coast to coast. 
Here's hoping they come.-back to us, Bvery mother's son,-, -". -• .Once^more_when.p.eacel,returns.to earth To silence every gun; But come or stay on that glad day. Soldiers, we cry, "Well done!" 
The Season of 1917. 
CHARLES W. CALL. 

^ 1 Si^OU boys keep coming out and prac­%.,,X ticing, and we'll fool some of these wise ones before the season is over." 
That's what Coach Harper told his men one rainy day in September when things looked particularly dismal for the Gold and Blue. A heavy and foreboding schedtde stretched out ahead and the team for the moment seemed to be disheartened by the gloomy outlook. 
Much has ,been written about the character-of the teams of this wartime season. "Athletics are being continued chiefly for the benefit of the 3^outh of the land;" "Many.of the best players have joined the service;" ' 'Not too much emphasis is to be laid upon victory or defeat," this and kindred captions. filled columns in the' daily papers at the inception of the season. But with the playing of early games enthusiasm' and competition became as brisk as ever, and, as in other years, it was pretty much a question, of winning rather than losing with what material a team happened to have. 
, Notre Dame,had given nobly of her, 1916 squad to'Uncle Sam-. Of the players eligible for further "competition BergmaJh, Fitzpatrick, Murphy, Slackford, Mclnerhy, ,Grant,_ O'Hara, Meagher, Elasper, and Coughlin had joined the colors.. Not one was on hand, when practice opened on September 15th. 
Coaches Harper arid Rockne made no attempt 
to "alibi" for their scant; material; they.; 
simply announced they would get along some 
way with what men would show up, arid then 
they started to work. 
" Kalamazoo proved unusually feeble in the 
opening game of the season and Notre Dame 
had no difficulty in running-up 55 points while 
holding the Michiganders scoreless. Then came 
the trip to Wisconsin. Eighteen of the twenty-
six men transported to Madison were represent­
ing Notre Dame for the first, time. The heavy 
Badgers were fought to a standstill and the 
teams left the field without a score being made. 
The same powerful defense for which Notre 
Dame has long been noted was working well, 
but the offensive power had not developed. 
At Lincoln, Nebraska, on the following 
Saturday Notre Dame ran into a team of 
veterans, a team that was not only as good- as 
the Comhusker-team of 1916 but one that was 
immeasurably better. The-Gold and Blue 
fought vaHantly but could not score. The 
•only touchdown of the season scored against 
Notre Dame came in this game, and the western 
team won by a margin of seven points. 
Back on Cartier field after two scoreless, 
games Notre Dame pounced upon the South 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Dakota Coyotes and ran over and around them for a total of forty points. It was evident that the patient work of the coaches was having an effect, and for the first time during the season Notre Dame looked like a scoring machine. 
Then the Army loomed up ahead the following Saturda}'. Capt. Phelan had been called to the war and the cause seemed nearl}^ hopeless. Some guessed the score would be as high as 40 to o against Notre Dame. Others hoped for a closer defeat. What happened? " Tex" Allison simph­jumped into the place made vacant by the leaving of Phelan, jockeyed the team through three quarters of the game, hoarding the players' strength for' a supreme effort if the With half the backfield that beat the Army unavailable it did seem a little dubious for the representatives of the West. But Harper shoved Bahan and Pearson into the breach left b}- the injuries to Allison and Gipp. The Army game tactics were eschewed, though once more Notre Dame, played with the hope that when the telling "break" would come she would be able to rally just enough strength to score. The chance came in the third quarter. Foiled at gaining through the line, and having no one to forward pass accurately. Brandy, hero of the Army game, booted a placement goal from the 45 yard line. Notre Dame pla3'ed strictly on the defensive during the rest of the game, and 
f^-'L •-:?% ,>^' 
<^*^'^S2!^^-' M^ 
:'.•;,-.'/.^•.tv.-..!!;^;" 
THE 1917 

hoped for "break" appeared, and then when the opportunity did show up he uncorked a couple of forward passes, and with the ball on the seven 3'ard line sent the hitherto unknown Brandy straight through for the only touchdown of the game. The Army could only score a safety following the blocking of a Notre Dame punt. The East woke up to^ the fact that Notre Dame after all was one of the really great teams of the year, and that Coach Harper was just as resourceful as ever. 
Morningside and M. A. C. proved com­parativel}'-eas}'' victories for the Gold and Blue, but the loss of Gipp in the former game and Allison and Stanley in the latter was a heavy price to pay for such hollow gains. 
Critics, not having learned their lesson at West Point on November 3rd, shook their heads when Notre Dame prepared to face the renowned W. & J. team on November' 24th. 
 SQUAD. 
the curtain rang down on the 1917 season a few minutes later. 
Those six victories, one defeat, and one tie game, constitute the most enviable record Notre Dame has made since 1913. Notre Dame made this record because her men were fighters, because neither coaches nor pla3^ers would concede defeat before a game was pla3^ed. They had faith in themselves and their faith gained them much. Team work stood out as a conspicuous quant3'- of the team. Personalities were smothered, and no one man let his own gain mean more to him than the good of the team. 
A typical example of the spirit of the men occurred in the Notre Dame car that was to bring the victorious Gold and Blue back from Washington & Jefferson. Some one started to compHment Joe Brandy, scorer of all the Notre Dame points made in the East, this season, 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
on his beautiful placement kick of the afternoon. He blushed and cut the speaker short by insist­ing that Bahan had held the ball so perfectly that anyone could have kicked the goal. Bahan was present and disclaimed an}^ credit by insist­ing that Madigan had passed the ball so ac­curately that he did not have to move it six inches for Brandy. Madigan claimed the line held so well that the passing and placing before the kick was mere child's play. Any one of these fellows could have "nominated" him­self a hero, and such was the high calibre of his play that no one would have disputed him. 
Enough praise can not be centered upon the Notre Dame coaching staff for the part it played in making Notre Dame one of the rem.arkable teams of the year. In other years Harper and Rockne have had to stand the jibe that most anyone could develop a team from the squad of men of " boilermaker" proportions with which they had been blessed. This 3^ear things were different. At the height of its success the Notre Dame team averaged 166 pounds per man, and the backfield could not muster more than 14S pounds a person. The Gold and Blue football teaching staff could fashion a gridiron team from the remnants of a county infirmary. 
Truthful James Up to Date. 
BY P. ED. O METER. 
\A/HICH I wish j^ou'd get hep To a fact that's quite plain: That for punch and for pep When there's need of a gain, Our feather-weight half-back's a hummer Which the same any kid can explain. 
Yes; Joe Brandy's his name, 
And I shall not deny 
In regard to the same 
That it sure fits the guy,— 
At least the rear-end of it. Brandy, 
Though the Joe-end of course is awry. 
For there's no name but one That has just the true ring To express what he's done: And we herewith unsling The word that should go before Brandy, And the same, if you get me, is Byng. 


The Coaches. 

Automobile salesmen make much of the fact that their cars should be judged on past records. Any car looks good enough in the beginning to sell itself, they argue, but the car the public will eventually support is the one that proves itself over a span of years. Reliability and durability appear to be even more precious qualities than mere ability. This is true of a man as well as of a machine. 
Jesse C. Harper is a man with a record. One-half a decade of achievement at Notre Dame 
JESSE C. HARPER. 

lies behind him, but he had spent twent)'-nine years before coming to us preparing himself > for his task. After finishing his preparatory school work at Morgan Park Academy he entered the University of Chicago in 1902. Handicapped by lack of weight, Harper did not make the football team until his senior year when he played end and halfback on the championship team that defeated Michigan 
2 ^o o. He was a member of the baseball team three successive seasons, working behind the bat and in the outfield. His last athletic feat for the Maroon team was to wallop out a three, bagger in his final time at bat'in his senior year against Illinois. 
Harper's first coaching experience came in 1906 when he took charge of athletics at Alma College, [Michigan. He remained there three years, and won the intercollegiate championship of the Wolverine State in 1908. 

Ti-IE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Then he went to Wabash College. There he won State championships with his basketball and baseball teams and secondar}'- champion­ships with his football team. 
Since coming to Notre Dame he has placed football on a plane with the best teams both in the East and in the West. He jumped into national prominence his 'first year when in 1913 he defeated the Army, Penn State and Texas. That team captained by Knute Rockne was at once the wonder of the athletic world. Much is heard to this day of that immortal Dorias-Rockne forward passing combination that startled every team it met. 
But Notre Dame had wonderful material 
KNUTE K. ROCKNE. 
1 
in those days. Harper inherited a coterie of 
finished football players/ and that gave critics 
material from which to predict his failure after 
the first "flash in the pan." With the Yale 
catastrophe and the Arm}'' reversal the following 
3''ear the "I told you so " parade lengthened out. 
Harper offered not a word in rebuttal. He simply 
kept on with his work and before the season was 
over had his team faced about and it scored 
decisive victories against Carlisle and S5T:acuse. 
Aside from one point, a defeat at Nebraska, 

due to the failure to.kick a. goal following a ^touchdown, Harper and his men bowled over . everything in 1915. The Army and Texas were again Adctims. In 1916 the Army succeeded in beating the Gold and Blue, but M. A. C. and 
Nebraska were defeated.. 
.When Harper arranged the 1917 schedule 
months in advance of the declaration of war 
on the part of this country he was congratulat­
ing himself on his good fortune at having 
sufficient football material in sight for unbeatable 
teams for at least' two years. Consequently he was not a bit careful about the calibre of the teams he chose for this year's eleven to meet. Enough good men to make a first-class football team were lieutenants in the national army before^ the season opened, and when practice did start there were not a half dozen veterans of any description from the year before. Harper did not complain. He merely went to work. Though the defensive strength of his team developed quickly its offense had not material­ized b}'' the Wisconsin and Nebraska games. Captain Phelan was called to the Army with the playing of the Cornhusker game. 

No one conceded his team a chance in the universe to^ defeat, the future Army officers at West Point. .But that's what it did. Between the Nebraska game and the'Army game he had perfected a forward pass attack that could not be denied. Following the .Army game he lost Gipp and Allison in succession, and one-half the backfield with which he had beaten the soldiers was interned in hospitals. Even sym­pathizers shook their heads as the Notre Dame tutor departed with his depleted flock for the game with Washington and Jefferson. The team that had' battled Pitt, the greatest eleven of the 5''ear, almost to_ a standstill would anni­hilate the light eleven once more representing the West. W. and J. did nothing of the sort. The teams proved, most evenly matched, but Notre Dame proved itself the better coached team and won by a small margin. 
Harper has ever been progressive since coming to Notre Dame. He innovated the three-year eligibility rule, has advocated and co-operated with the faculty in obtaining a high grade of scholarship, has shown himself relentless in enforcing all rules of amateurism. He has countenanced nothing but the highest grade of sportsmanship. 
Harper showed exceptional judgment early in his career as a coach for the Gold and Blue. That was when he "took unto himself" Knute Rockne, an assistant who has' done much for him. What Harper thinks of Rockne and what Rockne thinks of Harper is too affectionate for space here. 
Harper was a great man in 1913 when he flashed across the athletic horizon with an un­beatable team of veteraiis; he was a far grea.ter man during 1917 when he moulded a team from the greenest of material and battered his way through the heaviest schedule in the history of Notre Dame with just one defeat. 


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
The Members of the Squad 
BY CHARLES W." CALL. 
CAPTAIN JAMES PHELAN.' 

Captain "Jim" was permitted to lead the 1917 teain in only three games before Uncle Sam dressed him in khaki. But in those three 
•games—against Kalamazoo, ' Wisconsin, and Nebraska—^he showed a generalship that Byng might envy. Working with men most of whom were playing their first games of intercollegiate football, he furnished the head-work and the encourage­
. ment which the team so badl)'- needed. At Madison he did the punting and was an important factor in off­setting the long kicks of Simpson whose toe threat­ened throughout the contest to humble the Gold and Blue. Immediately after the Nebraska gaihe Phelan had. to hurry to Camp "Taylor as 
CAPTAIN 

a member of the draft quota of St. Joseph Count3^ "Jim" has played his last game for ^ Notre Dame; he is already-engaged at Louisville in getting ready for the much bigger game at the front in Flanders. 
FR-'VNK RYDZEWSKI. ^ 

"Big Frank" was the champion notoriety gatherer of the team. Sporting writers warned about him, looked at him, then "raved "through columns over him. And the best part of the pro­ceedings was that Frank deserved every bit of praise that he received. Without a doubt this last season he was so far the better of any man he faced that "there was 'no comparison. -No one could stop-him, and the-combined attention 
of two or three men "playing" him in- cer­tain games, only served to bother him. Frank'^ never failed to feed the ball with the utmost ac­curacy to .the backs r on the various shift-plays and befuddUng forma­tions for which Notre 
-:^ Dame is famous. Ryd-RYDzEwsKi zewski stopped, many 

an opposing rally. by intercepting forward passes. His great height and shiftiness-made it almost impossible for an alienr-back" to shoot a pass over his head. He acted-as "captain in several. games after the departure of Phelan. This season closed his, football career "at -Notre Dame. • • x ' ".; 
DAVE PHILBIN. ' • ;.': ,• 

Right tackle on the. line was puncture proof throughout the schedule, for the reason, to witj that Dave Philbin was fighting over there. Intercollegiate football is now a closed book for Dave. With his one year at the University of Oregon and two at Notre Dame,- his record will' stand ready com­parison with that of any of the great men who have gone before him. He has been the kind of. • unassuming, silent, good-natured, .fighter that a school hates, to .part with. No man.on the .team l\ is more genuinely respected-by his teammates or fellow 
 PHELAN 
students than the big Ore­gonian. Notre Dame will miss his- terrific charging and blocking, his deadly tackling and hjs good-fellowship. . . " , ., 
FRANK ANDREWS. -' : 

Andrews played the tackle that Philbin" didn't, which means that left tackle also • was well administered this year. "Bodie" was unfortunate in ha\'ing his shoulder badly biruised on two or three occasions, and as a consequence he did not really reach his top form until the game with the Army. • In that and in the", following battles he fought like a tiger. Always confident, aggressive,. reHable, he is a mail that would be noticeable on "any team. It is a comfort'to know that hehas another year of eligibiHty. ' . '',•'-­
THOMAS KING. . / _ . , Tom -King's intercollegiate football ' career is complete.. 'It is a stoiy of the success achieved by a determination that cannot be discouraged. Two years ago ;wheh he first appeared on Cartier Field he seemed, phy­sically too insignificant ANDREWS 
ever to make the Var-
sit}?-. It soon became 
apparent, however, 
that he was a fighter 
to the finish, that he 
was out for recognition, 
and that he meant to 
get it. For two )'^ears 
he kept trjdng for the 
team, but only getting 
into a game now and 
' '^M^'then when something 
happened to one of 
PHILBIN 
the regular ends. This 3'ear he won his place as a regular. With the war cloud hanging close to his head, he developed wonderful defensive ability on the right extremit}'- of the Notre Dame line. AlwaA'^s fast on covering punts, he improved wonderfully in catch­ing forward passes. He is captain-elect of the basketball team, but he is under the impression that Uncle Sam will need liis services before the winter season opens. 
DAVID HAYES 
"Dave" Hayes has but one creed when he is on the gridiron— and thaf is fight. Determined, relentless, fearless, untiring, he fought to-a standstill ever}'- man he faced this season. While, he possibly lacked the experience and 

HAYES 
finesse,of King, the two formed a 
combination on the extremes of the line that was reliable rather than spectacular. Hayes improved from game to game under the tutelage of Notre Dame's great 1913 captain until in the later games of the season Dave was an extremely crafty end man. Hayes probably made more good tackles, and effectively blocked tnore men, and received less recognition for his fine work than any man on the team. But that bothers Dave not a bit. When it comes to humilit}'-, saints could not, improve on his unassuming disposition. He takes his reward in the pleasure of knowing he did his work well, 
and  his reward  is  ample.  This  was  his  first  
year on^ the ;team. 
p  Tf 7 
J 
Zoia  hung  around  Notre  Dame  until  the 

beginning of his third year before he announced  his Varsit)'- aspirations. After a poor start,  due to some minor injuries more than anything  else, Zoia made good with a vengeance. Called  upon to face meii who weighed on an average  over 200 pounds, the Woodstock wonder always  gave more than he received at left guard,  Zoia is a speed demon for a man weighing 170  pounds, and the sj)eed and frequenc}'- with which  he broke through the opposing line to tackle  the man carrying the ball brought him into  prominence. There is one severe criticism of  Zoia, however, that could not be omitted in a  review of his • plajdng this jeox and that is to  charge him with criminal negligence for not  having tried for the team before this year. 

EDWARD MADIGAN. 
Madigan was promoted in mid-, season from the position of sub­stitute center for "Big Frank" to that of regular right guard. Madigan typifies probably better than an)'- other man on the team "the fight'n' Irish" spirit that provoked so much comment among Eastern sport-writers. "Slip" can think and fight with such lightning­like speed that Harper simply could no longer select a line-up and leave him out. Madigan proved his versatility in the W and J game. First replacing De-Gree, then R^'-dzewski, he played throughout the game an uncom­
plaining and unproclaimed hero 

for the Gold and, Blue. Without him the  Notre Dame attack would have been paratyzed  He has another year of competition. 
LEONARD BAHAN. 

In civilian clothes Bahan is about the last man in the school a critic would choose for 
football  material.  Re­ 
served,  quiet,  almost  
bashful,  nothing  sug­ 

 gests that he might be a potential pigskin ar­ tist of the highest type, 
^^ ^^^ noticed Bahan  before the Kalamazoo  game. In the latter  half of that struggle KING with the Celery City institution his long end runs from half­backimmediatelypro­claimed him as a star in the making, Though he played doggedly against Wis­consin and Nebraska" 
he received such a battering in those two games that he was incapacitated for nearly a whole month. Coach Harper used him alternately at 

ZOIA halfback and quarter­back in practice It is well that he did. With Allison out of the game with an injured vertebra, Bahan piloted the team through the W. and J. contest with all the acumen of a^ veteran. His judgment was ex­cellent and his strategy clever. For two. more seasons Notre Dame will be blessed with his presence. ' 
JOSEPH BRANDY. 

"Too much" seemed more appropriate than "Joe" to the Army and Washington and Jef­ferson teams following Notre Dame's two invasions of the Hast. It is more or less of a  C. game. A yertebra was injured in such a  manner that though it were possibler for ^him  to play in the W and J game it would have  been foolhardy. Allison has more mental than  physical attributes on the football field. He has  an athletic mind after his years on the baseball  diamond, and it was next to natural for him to  step into the quarterback position after Phelan  left and run the team successfully. His peculiar accent added spice to the already singular Notre Dame attack, and he had the future* Army officers at West Point "all fussed" with his "Hip! Hip!" repeated a little differently each time. He was the most accurate forward passer on the team, and he would shoot the ball to the ends and the backs like a bullet. His greatest asset was confidence—^he knew he was going to beat the Army. 
GEORGE GIPP. 
After having reported for the team late in September and being out of the. first two games, big George Gipp was just getting back to his 1916 freshman form when he met with the regret­table accident which broke his leg in the Momingside game at Sioux City. Gipp was not at his best in the Nebraska game following his first week of training, but against South Dakota he played brilliantly. Then at West Point he distinguished himself by long end runs, forward passes, and 

distinction to have scored the only points for Notre Dame in the East in 1917— the points that won two games. Brandy made the best use imaginable of his 137 pounds, He blossomed out as a punter in the M. A. C. game, only ,to surprise everybody by kicking the winning field goal in the last contest of the season. Brandy and Bahan were the modern Siamese twins of the Notre Dame eleven. Their playing was much alike, and so are their dis­positions. Brandy is so shy that he sports the most resplendent blush on the slightest pro­
vocation.  This  was  his  first  Varsity compe­ 
tition.  
WIIVLIAM' ALLISON.  

"Tangoing Tex," disconcerter of the Army, South Dakota and-Mbrningside, had his season cut short by a peculiar injury during the M. A. 
MADIGAN 

vicious taddes. He was the man.  more than any other, accountable for the ball's  being placed at that  vantage point seven  yards from the Army  goal, from where  Brandy ploughed  through the soldiers  for a touchdown at  the opening of the  fourth quarter. All  wish George a speedy  and Complete recov­
ery from his serious injury. 
WALTER MILLER. '^ 
Halfback, fullback, halfback, fullback!! BAHAIJ Ihat is about as fast as Walter Miller had to alternate between two positions this fall. Wherever he was sta­tioned, however, he gave the best that was in him. He im­proved Avith great strides as a line plun­ger, and his tackling 
was one of the strong points in the scond­ar}' defense of Notre Dame. He punted for 
the team 
BR.A.NDY 
occa'^ioijs work in the W. and J 
game in particular was noteworthy. He out-distanced the renowned Mc-Creight so that Notre Dame gained on. every exchange of punts. Miller is not as heaA'^' as some of the full­backs that have gone before him, but he has the fight and the knowl­edge, and they were enough during the present year. He will be eligible next year. 
DUDLEY PEARSON. 
Pearson does not let his good looks interfere Avith liis football pla3nng. He had a bit of hard luck at different times in the sea­son, but his brilliant finale in the crucial contest with W. and J. more than repaid him for his hard work daring the season. A smashed 
 on several and his 

GIPP 
shoulder in the South-Dakota game prevented him from getting into the game for several weeks. -He is-a fine open field runner and has as good success as any one in line boring. "Dud" is, a-Sophomore. 
ROBERT MCGUIRE. 
"Bob", is-the tj'pe of pla3''er that the Notre Dame coadhes like to meet. He appeared for pre-seasoh .practice in the right state of mind, Avilling, .-anxious', and industrious. The ex-Walsh \Ball .'star ithbibed a great man3'^ of the fine points df;the:.gridiron game this fall, and he improved ais rapidly, as any of his teammates as the season progressed. He pla3'^ed tackle in' place of Andrews in a few games, and he never failed to hold his own when given a chance. He had the physique and the disposition that go to niake up a great pla3^er, and by the time another season rolls around he no doubt Avill be a star. He has two more 3^earsto'.prgLy.. 

RALEIGH STINE. 

"Red" waited for a long time an opportunity to show what a football pla5-er he is under fire. After playing in a game here and there during the early season he got his first big chance  against W and J. After DeGree and Rydzewski  had left the gaine Harper sent liim in at right  guard though he had practiced at tackle most  of the year.' He fought like a wildman and the  Easterners soon found out that there was not the  semblance of a weak spot in the center of the 
Notre Dame line because two of its giants had been removed. "Red," like "Bob" McGuire, ^Ya.s an apt pupil at football all season and he improved greatl)'-. The two are the best kind of niaterial for 1918. Stine's eligibility has two more years to run. 
WALTER DEGREE. Notre Dame's punter of 1916 never reached his top form at an}?- time this season. The Wednes­da);- folloAviug the first game of the year with Kalamazoo, DeGree was -unfortunate enough to have his right knee severely wrenched. He did not attempt to play until the Morningside game, but he did 

E^feMi: 
not last long in that contest. 

After another Ions: rest he started  the game against W.  and J. only to slip 
on the snow-covered field on the first form­ation following the kic^Toff anid fender himself useless for the 
final game. He pla3'-­ ed less than an hour  during the entire sea­ son. He has another  year left to play, 
 -DASIL OTANLEY.  For all-around scrap­ piness Stanley cannot 
AXWSON 




THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
'•52> 
be beaten. Lighter b}'- far than the rest of line aspirants, he kept fighting and im­proving until he liter­ally forced himself in­to the recognition of the coaches. If there was any fault to find with Stanley's work it was his over-anxiousness. He was so aggressive at times that he could not re­strain himself. After having received his 

jriLLER rudimentar}^ football at Wabash he quickly adapted himself to the Notre Dame style of play, and had he not been unfortunate enough to have his leg broken when he was commencing to be of great value to the team his record would have been even greater than it is. 
THOMAS SPALDING. 

This distinctive Kentuckian was so good an end throughout the season that it seemed un­fortunate that he was forced to compete with such capable and non-injurable ends as King and Hayes. Spalding, like Zoia, was eligible for the Varsity in former 3^ears but never tried for the team. He played a hard and heady game throughout this season, but on account of the puncture-proof qualities of the regular extremity men he got but little chance to show his real worth.- Spalding's tackling was his strong point, 
though he drew on his baseball ability to good advantage in handling the forward pass. He is ineligible for further" football competition on ac­count of his two years on the Varsity nine. 
MAURICE SMITH. 
Plowing,^ stenogra­phy, knitting are dif­ficult in the beginning and so is football. Smith was never clothed in a gridiron 
MCGUIRE suit previous to this 

year. Pie did not appear until late a-?-a candidate for the team, and for the first few afternoons tried for an end po­sition. Immediately after Harper shifted him to halfback he gave promise of de­veloping into an of­fensive star. He did his" best work, how­ever, in the M. A. C. game at fullback, to which position he was shifted when Walter PHARSOX 
Miller was unable to play. Smith was a most reliable man on defense, and his tackling was of the "your down" type. He will be pla^ang for Notre Dame in 1918 and 1919. 
•JAMES RYAN. 

"Big Red" R3^au was sub-fullback on the team all season. He found some difficulty adapting himself to the shifty style of Notre Dame football in the beginning, but in common with the rest of the newcomers developed rapidly with the progress of the season. Ryan is a hard and conscientious worker, and though he still has a lot of football to master he is distinctively a comer, and is a much better player for the season just past. He will be eligible for the team for two more seasons. 
As in all lines of endeavor, so in football some men though fighting ever}- bit as hard as their fellow-men are destined not to make such brilliant show­ings. , But persever­ance, determination, that"i;ilgive-all-I've­got-arfyway" spirit is 
• what makes men great after all, and because one football man does not' reach the same measure of success as another football man is no in­dication that he lacks qualities that will go for success in the larger things of life. STIXE 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Powers had to learn football from the ground up this fall, that is, he had onlv a meagre knowledge of the game as it is played in intercolle­giate circles. He worked hard, hoAV­ever, and by mid-season was rated as the best sub-end after Tom S p a 1 d i ng. Though he sho"wed up well in practice, things did not shape 
DE GREE themselves so he could play in many scheduled games. He exhibited a lot of stick-to-it-iveness and will be a hand}'- man to have around next 3'^ear. This was his first year. 
"'Abie' and 'Gineral' are all right, but cut out this 'diminutive' stufi"," ordered I^ockard one day to a newspaper correspondent. Frank isn't exactty a dwarf, yet he's built low, and very naturally a trite adjective hke "diminu­tive" was bound to be applied to him. I^ockard got but few chances to show his worth under fire, but the way he ran the team in the fourth quarter of the ISI. A. C. contest proved be3'^ond a doubt that he will be a moSt valuable man for 

" Notre Dame a year from now. He has not had much opportunit}?^ to tr}'^ his forward pass, but it is the general comment on the gridiron that he "throws it" well. Lockard, like Barry, is an old-timer at Notre Dame. He has seen a lot of 
Gold and Blue foot­ball from the side­lines, and with the passing of another twelve months.lie is going to execute a lot of it between the sidelines. He has two years more to play. 
Barr)'', the ex-pro­tege of Brother Gaje­tan showed a "lot of stuff'' during his first year of eligibility for. the Varsity. His work at halfback command­ed the attention of the ' 

SPA^JLDI^"G coaches, and though 

his opportunities in 
scheduled games were 
few, he nevertheless 
gave a might}^ good 
account of himself 
when the chance was 
afforded him. His 
great speed enabled 
him to make several 
long gains against the 
Michigan '' Aggies'' 
and on one sprint he 
circled right end for 
fifty yards and-a-
touchdown. This w^as 
not Barry's year, but 
ST.J\NI.EY 

it is coming. 
Ronchetti tried hard to become a . fullback because the team needed one at the beginning of the season, but after the first game Coach Harper decided to shift him to guard. There he acted as substitute in all the important games of the 3^ear. "Pete" is a good plugger, always faithful and read}^ to give everything he has for the team. For a big man he is unu­sually shifty on his feet, and he played a good consistent game at guard whenever the chance afforded. He has completed his years of eligibilit)'^ in football, but he is out already and hard at -work with the basketball team. He will be a strong man in that sport this Avinter. 
To Holton, Kelly, Andres, Morgan and others, great credit is due for their part in making this j'-ear's eleven what it was. Regular and con­sistent workers, they .practiced every day with their teams and their fine spirit of willingness to render any service they could is deserv­ing of high praise. They -will be in the old fight "when the next season opens: 
Take it all in all, it was a great team, and- its fiiie achieve­ments this season show - forcibly the superior value of a s m o d t h w o i: k i n g machine over mere weight, especially whe nthe dynamo that turns the;wheel is the Notre Paine spirit. RYAN 


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
155 


Vti^t for il^t Uarsitp 
The Old Second String. 
Go on, yell your head off, and sing. 
They're deserving the best we can bring; And I have a hunch There's one other bunch 
As worthy—the old "second string." . ' . T. D. M. 
To the Team. Home From the Army Game. 
YOU played the game, and played it well.  captured the station a thousand strong 
WE 
You tried to make 3'our team the best With the roaring of cheers and the " Victory-That ever fought for the Gold and' Blue ' song; On glory-fields from Esist to AVcst. Their train pushing in needed never a light, -, You gave your courage, strength and will. A volcano of red-fire flared up in the night. To guard the honor, spread the fame. Rockets showered the engine whose whistle and bell . Make jubilant the hearts of all Were all lost in an ear-smashing " U. N. D." yell. The happy sons of Notre Dame. , 
As the heroes climbed down it was wth consternation. They found themselves caught in a monstrous ovation; Great teams, like yours have come and gone. 
Then behind the brass band and the snake-dancing The shadow of their greatness lies 
throng -' Across the fields where once they played. 

Th& glorified team rode amid the hoarse song But now beneath high foreign skies "^ Of the mob always eager to cheer and adore. 
And in strange meadows far from home. 

And especially ready to count up that score. *^ 
Where Death- has spread a sovereign spell, ' 

• : ' _ . V. F. FJ ­
Their blood "has helped ' redeem the soil,— 

'• ' " '• ^ ,. 
They too have played'the game, and well.,-That W. and J. Victory. 
W C. H. 
'HEN some scribe will tell the story. 
W 
Of our Fighting Irish glory ' ,
The Phantom Team. 

And the great things that our football team accom­plished all the way, -.
r^N E night, I dreamed I went He may tell in language polished • t -" ' Out to the field, pitch dark. 
Of the hopes N. D. demolished, . ;On some vague errand bent. 

But I am gleeful just because N. D. beat W. and J. 
I neared the gate, buti—hark! You may shout in admiration What whistle shrills at night? At the way our aggregation ' , 
Who is it pants and strains? Held the prize stock of Nebraska in a fiercely fought I peer! The brief moonhght 
melee, * -. . ' _, •. Shows all before it wanes. ­
But let me tell you,-brother, . x . . . 
If they had not jvon another,', . '"; "> 
, The secret I have found: They'd have gained my staunch fidelity by beating 

' AVho taught the team to fight? 
W. and J. . . i /. 
The phantom players downed 

^ ' ~ '-."-•• 
"The varsity "that night! Then, of course. West Point .was battered,. 5 ­And their vaunted power shattered, T.. ^ .• 
• Heroes of long gone by. By stopping.Elmer Oliphant in a most .decided way. 
In spirit they were back Why, say,-^this N.D . spirit, ; • -, To teach the varsity 
-There's nothing that c~6mes, near _it, ,. .,. ..;. 
•; Theirgrit and their attack. 

And I can shout, and shout again, that we-beat­
y
' • • '.--., -. • . V. F. F. 

, W. and J. , . - ., . , J.T.J. 
The Freshman Team. 
BY ALFRED W. SLAGGERT, '20. 
The__dishearteniug prospects of next ^'•ear's Varsity, due to the response of Notre Dame's gridiron knights to the nation's war call and the loss of Rydzewski by graduation, is totally eclipsed by the classy squad of yearlings whose 
. heady playing brought smiles of contentment to Harper and Rockne this year. We have Capt. Donovan, former St. John meteor, "Dutch" Wrape, Vohs, Doole)^ and Murphy to head_the blue ribbon entries. In addition, there is a host of other gfidders, who, after a season's 
grilHng under Jake KHne, have the, essential requisites for a suc­cessful team next year. 
The aU-Fresh team this year, although not overwhelmed with its usual quota of yearling stars, was, according to critics, the equal of any former freshman team, not excluding tlie wonderful squads which produced Cofall, Miller, Cal­lahan, Mclnerne}'- and recent pig­skin immortals. Pitted against the Varsit}' three times a week, they bore the brunt with exceptional rigor and were never beaten b}'­more than fifteen points. Before the regular schedule opened Kline's proteges held the.Varsity to a 12 to o. score in a game that was the equal of any sfeen here during 
 developed 

First Year Aggies 7 to o. M. A. C. put up her usual warlike front and was fortunate in hold­ing Donovan, Doole)'-, Murphy and Wrape, et al, to a lone ringer. What the M. A. C. tilt demonstrated at each consecutive play is that 
\>^he Miles and Wrape end combination can fill the wing boots of an}'- college eleven with exceptional credit. 
The University of Michigan stellar backfield, aided b}'-a line outweighing our boi'^s twenty pounds to the^man, succeeded in getting on the long end of a 19 to 3 score. The Michigan Freshmen concentrated their football knowledge in the first half when they gathered their only points. But the second chapter wasn't exactlj'­a sequel. The N. D. Freshmen braced and out­
played their rivals in ever}'- depart­ment of the game. Hogan dropped a daisy from the 38-yard line and Donovan was leading a charge to a touchdoAvn when the whistle put an end to the scoring. 
At ends Miles and Wrape worked 
-V&^^^i consistently, both being equalty f;,^'^^:^-, good at receiving forward lunges '^"H^i;| ^^^ getting . down under punts. 
'^S^SS^ These lads show every' indication 
- \TS?»; of looming up strong for the Varsit}^ 
!| wing jobs and'under the line tute­lage of Rockne should develop into a class with the famous mentor himself. Hoar played a good game as an end insert. 
season. Capt. Donovan, Doole)'- and Murphy provided the spine thrillers for the side-liners by puUing off a _ string of spectacular eye­openers. ­
Capt. Donovan led his squad against Culver for the Freshmen" s first scheduled game and the soldiers were downed in a 13 to 7 go, Hogan and Donovan scoring the markers. The red-topped captain pla3'-ed his usual driving game and was ably assisted'b}'- the remarkably de­fensive tactics of Vohs, Wrape, Dooley and Murph)''. The men were apparently off form, due to injuries received in stopping the plunges of W. Miller, Bahan and Brandy during the Cartier scrimmage programs, and were defeated by the strong Kalamazoo. Normal team, but the defeat;only inculcated a fighting, determination to pull off .future thrillers. 
At M. A. C. the Freshmen tramped over the Vohs is, perhaps, the hardest tackier ever seen in Nofre Dame Freshman annals. He is a bear on the defense and opens up regular boulevards for the backfield. He is the surest bet for a Varsity tackle, position next year. O'Connor was one of the best, among the tackhng candidates. . ^ 

Murphy and Owens held down the guard position in true yeoman style. Murphy is particularly good on the offense, and.it would not be a surprise to see the big brunette dashing around Cartier Field as a regular in 1918. Owens is a husky with, beef, fight and ability. "Eddie" Dunn played'a hard and consistent game whenever called upon and makes up in fight what he lacks in weight. ^ 
Gooney was a find at the pivotal position. He.passes accurately, and considering his lack of experience at the central cog he did remarkably 
COACH KLINE 
At tackles Bloom and Vohs work­
 the entire 

ed like demons, insisting on being in every play. 
well. He possesses the rare combination of being a sure tackier, a crack offensive player and an all-around footballer. Mersch, the chubby lad from Frankfort, Indiana, played a fine game at sub-center, but lacked a little in rangi­ness which, however, did not hinder his efforts at Ferry Field. ' • 
Hogan, made a good, brainy quarterback. He excels in the kicking department, being a toe artist of no mean ability. Maher replaced him occasionally, and between the two the position Avas well taken care of. 
At left half Capt. Donovan needed no sub­stitute. The sandy-haired lad was elected captain before the Culver game and sus­tained his ability for leadership during the entire season. To begin with he is a Varsit}'' cinch for 1918 by virtue of his all-around experience and football sense. He can pick a hole with pre­cision and has a 42 centimetre drive, in­tercepts forwards for a pastime, is a tower of strength on the de­fense, and surmounts these talents with the necessary, Irish fight. Big tilings can be ex­pected from this husky individual from Massa­chusetts. Ivombardo, 
despite a lack of ex­perience, landed a regular berth at right half 
and put up a consistent, scrappy argument for his position. "Red-" Granfield filled his shoes 
on several occasions. 
Big Dooley at fullback distinguised himself so consistently that a mediocre class of playing was impossible of association with the driving Easterner. I^ike Donovan, he is -an adept at picking his wa}'- through, a line and tears a defense to tatters. His specialty is dragging along upwards of a half dozen tacklers for a few-extra yards. Possible Varsity, backfield men better look to their 'laurels, for Dooley will undoubtedly make a smashing debut into fast company next autumn. 
The season as a whole was. pleasingly suc­cessful.. Although considerable inroads were made upon the available material because of war conditions, and although several injurious handicaps insisted on bobbing up, Kline and his men upheld the honor of Notre Dame wherever they chanced to stop off. Donovan, Dooley, Murphy, Miles, Wrape and Vohs were the best men uncovered during the season; but iii eclipsing the game efforts "of the lesser lights, they did not detract from the glory due to the entire scrappy 1917 all-Fresh Eleven. 
The Interhall Season. 
ALFRED W. SLAGGERT, '20. 

When Walsh and Brownson staged the last scene in the Interhall Classic for 1917; the curtain closed on one of the-most eventful seasons in the history of Interhall- competition-Consistent, snappy,' clever playing'characterized each battle, but as the season progressed it was evident that Walsh had the superior ' team, humbling her rivals in a series of consecutive defeats. Nearly any one of-- the Interhall 
aggregations couldhave acquitted itself in varsity fashion against a good many second­ary college teams; in fact, this very stunt was accomplished sev­eral times dtiring" the season. * ' 
Walsh in 'winning the championship ' is especially deserving of 

FRESHMAN "TE.\M 
victory; for it followed a consistent form of training'^and scrimmage during the entire season. 
FIRST TEAJI SECOND TEAlf 
Kirk, Walsh.: :_....;. L E - White, Corby Miles, Sorin R E Shanahan, Walsh" Flaherty, Walsh L T. ..„„.Baker, Sorin 
V. AValsh, Sorin. R T , McFeeley,. Walsh 
W. Walsh, Corby. L G VanAkeren, Brownson Giblin, Sorin R G.__ Grabner, Corby Whitehead, Walsh.. C...". Blackman, Sorin Mohardt, Brownson ....L H. . Fennesy; Walsh Woods, Walsh. .. .R HL jGalagher, Walsh Babcock, Corby F. /. Billeaud,--Walsh. Mulligan, Sorin Q—_.„........Wheeler, Walsh., 
Jake Kline, Referee . Pete Noonah, Umpire The above men were chosen from the respec-^ five haU lineups at a conference of .their coaches and the referees of the season and therefore, represents-a uniform concensus of choice. ' Kirk a.t left,end was imdoubtedly the most versatile man occupying that position. A fast, man down the field under punts, a dean,'con­sistent tackier and a toe artist of exceptional ability, .the Walshef ptit up' a clever game. 
V 

1.58 THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Miles issued the strongest bid for the other wing position, and with Kirk as a running mate a more aggressive combination could not be desired. .Miles has an interference-smashing st^'le that enables him to get the runner with regularity. As the receiver of Mulligan's aerial 

• lunges he'put the Sorin team within reach of many a touchdo\^^l. "Dog" White, Corby's featherweight end, and Shanahan of Walsh are exceptionall}'- qualified to hold down the same positions on the second team. 
At left tackle, Flahert}'- the beefy' Walsh star, was peerless. He w ^ equally brilliant on; the defense and offense, stopping all line smashes on his side and opening wide paths for the Walsh backfield men. Sorin hall con­tributes V. Walsh for the right tackle position, He plays a fearless, heady game, is impenetrable on the defense, and as a mate for Flaherty he eliminated all possible contenders by A'irtue of his all-around ability. Baker of Sorin and McFeeley of Walsh closely rival the first choice for the tackle jobs and are placed on the second team. " • • , 
W. Walsh playing left guard, for the-Corby 

 Both Mulligan and Wheeler ran their teams  with sterling generalship and were equally  adept at lurrling the oval with big league pre­ cision. Mulligan, how.ever, had a shade on  Wheeler ,in advancing the ball particularly  around end, the varsit};-. track captain and  erstAvliile fast, ten-second man displaying. his  mercurial prowess on ever}'- drive. Wheeler  on the other haxid has the ability to run his  team smoothly and to get the plays away fast,  Both men, however, are excellent subjects for  pigskin tutelage. The coaches placed Mulligan  at the helm of the first team and Wheeler is  signal caller for the second squad, 
 Mohardt, a husk}'', from Chicago, was the  big gun in ever}'; Brownson tournament, starring  against every defence, he opposed the entire  season^ He has a driving plunge that makes  ever}- dash good for a big gain. We can readily  concede big things for the Brownsonite under  proper coaching. Concerning his sterling foot­ ball ability nothing can be said that would be  an exaggeration. Mohardt is placed at left  ..half.. For tliie .position at right half a galaxy of  backfield men are available, ".Joe" Woods of 
squad made a splendid showing-in ever}''battle . Walsh >Hall who-although somewhat .^ light is he entered. . At right guard ''Vine" Giblin extremely .fast, a sure tackier and a bear of was a unanimous choice. Both" these.men are . an' end.: skirter. "Joe " showed up big in all rangey and weighty" and have the punch and • .the important interhall., goes and - is given 
ner-yy, scrapping ability essential to their posi­tions. Cl9sely shadowing the. first teamers are big Hank Grabner of Corby and Van Ackeren of Brownson. It is conceded that Grabner witha httle development would round into one of- the best defensive players hereabouts. The husk}''lad from Winemac has beef to spare and is as shifty and swift as a ra,bbit. Van Ackeren was one of the superior scrapping units of the phenomenal Brownson pony eleven, and starred consistently on the Brownson line. " 
The position at centre presented a quandary, several men being of an ehgible'calibre. White­head of Walsh was the key to every Walsh attack and.defense tactic. He is an accurate passer, can ppen holes on the offense and'"was a big factor in every drive of the Walsh defensive formations. - Blackman of Sorin is given the pivotal position on the second eleven. Possessed of small stature, but overcoming this handicap with peppery work oil: the turfed re'ctangle, Blackman showed up many of his Herculean opponents. ' > , 
The awarding of thie quarterback ;berth also presented the coaches ^-vrith. a i big dilemma,  the position :at right. Among the other back­field men 'who have displayed themselves  creditably are Fennessy and Gallagher, the  second team halves, Sheehan, Murphy and  Jenny. , There could be but one choice.for, the full­ back position. Babcock, ex-Rensallaer High  School star and 1916 Purdue all-Fresh back­
fieldma.n is without a peer in interhall ranks. ^  As a player of .class .Babcock holds a position  of superiority over any contemporary. He has  speed, bulldog courage and ability to hit the  line for a big gain, when called upon, which was  quite often. He is undoubtedly the cleverest­ player that the Interhall season has brought  into pigskin' limelight, and undoubtedly would  develop, into a star if put 'under, the proper  tutelage. Billeaud holds, down the ;fullback • 
 "position on. the ~ second team, starring with  Wheeler,' Fehnessey and Gallagher in the  ,Wa,lsh line smashing tri-umvirate:  Slick; Sanfqrd, Hallett, Parker, W.' BiUeaud, .  Schofield and Devirie also-played., creditably  diuring the season and' aire ^deserving of honor7  able meintion;^^ ^„, . . 
A Ballad of Old Players. 
J LIGHT my pipe and seem to see Arising out of the black old cob Forms of the players that used to be, Dorais and "Deac" and Bichenlaub. Players of later time can't rob Them of the fame they garnered here. Mention their names, and our hearts still throb,— Here's to the players of yester year. 
1 . 
To enter the house of memory— The door swings wide when you touch the' knob-Is a privilege precious indeed to me And pleasant after the long day's job. In memory's halls I can still hob-nob With heroes of old, without a peer, Feency and, oh, yes, Eichenlaub— Here's to the players of yester year. 
Of course, I but mention two or three, 
(On this account don't think I'm a snob,) But the fello\« who won their prized "N; D." (See "Athletic Guide") area regular mob. 
Now don't imagine I heave a sob To .think of the past; it brings me cheer ' To recall, say, a chap like Eichenlaub— Here's to the players of j^ester year. 
My pipe is out, but the faces bob In and- out of my musing clear— Let's see, did I mention Eichenlaub? Here's to the players of yester. year. 
O'D. 


N. D. Athletes in Camp Elsewhere. 
BY THOMAS J. HANIFIN, '19. 

. In past years a football player's career closed' with his graduation from college. All his hard-earned skill Avas of no further use to him after he-had pla3'^ed his last game at school, except perhaps as a coach. But now this is not so. Camp and professional teams now offer a new^ field and real athletes have no end of oppor­
.tunities. As was to be expected, many Notre Dame men have availed themselves of this 
•chance, and are startling the country with their achievements. Down in Camp- Sherman at Chillicothe, Ohio, Farwick of last year's' fresh­man, team, " Hoot" King, and Ra}': Eichen­laub,' Notre Dame's champion, fullback, are displaying a quality of football such as that section has seldom seen. . In'the East at Camp Devens, Newport News, "Mai" Elward, the varsity end in the years '13, '14, and '15, and Callahan, freshman center in '14, are holding down their favorite positions on- ".Cupid" Black's renowned aggregation. At Paris-Island, South Carolina, "Jack" Meagher, fleet, end on the varsity line last year, and. "Ken" Berkey, freshman end of last year, have been defending the wing .positions for the Marines' team. This combination was -broken up last Thursday, however, when "Ken" sailed for "Somewhere in France." On the Camp-Grants 
. team at ;Rockford, Illinois, "Zipper" Lathrop, varsity tackle for three ^^ears, '12, '13 and',14,: is playing in the line. When Grover- Malone; of the 313th Engineering Corps at Camp Dodge,­near Des, Moines, is not running down I. W; W. disturbers, he is running down punts for the camp team, with "Cy" Kasper as his inter­ference. • lyco Vogel is playing halfback for the officers' team.at Fort Sill, Oklahoma, and-:has been hitting the line hard aU season. At Fort Sheridan, '' Cm-ley''' Knowers and; Joe. Pliska, varsity halfback in,'12, '13 and '14; are playing the game with, all their old-time fight. 
An outstanding feature in the games of the camp teams is the reddessness with which, the old Notre Dame stars are piling' up scores. In not a few instances they have scored all the points of the game. At numerous other times it has been the Notre Dame man who was respon­sible for his team's scoring, either by his starting or completing a forward pass or by fiurnishing the runner superb interference. The recent game between the representative teams, of Camp Shelby at Hattiesburg, Miss., and ;that" of the 84th Division at Camp Taylor, in .Louis­ville was another case of "Greek against Greek. Playing for the Taylor team were Harry Baujan at right end;, Keith Jones at-left-tackle,. "Little Dutch" Bergman,as right half, "Fritz" 
Slackford, as fullback, ^McCarthy at. right guard, "Jim'my" Phelan, as quarterback- .foi' a part of the game, and J. O'Harar as substitute at left half. Opposed to them was-a team that had been coached by one of the greatest players that- ever wore the Gold and Blue,., "Pete" Vaughn. •. On his scjuad were" John MiUer, at , fullback,;" Red " Fitzpatrick at-right half,-and. "Chet" .Grant, the .-sp.eedy sophomore of.. last year's varsity squad at quarterback. Camp Taylor won""the game by a 52-.to-2i .score.. Camp Shelby might have made the score more 
even if she had had more Notre Dame men. They A'er}^ evidentl}* constituted the strength of the Taylor team. The Notre Dame men on both teams lived up to -their reputation as fixed stars." "Chet" Grant, substitute quarter for Jimmy Phelan on last year's Notre Dame squad, achieved a si.xty-A^ard run for a touch­down, making the distance in next-to-nothing time. During the entire season, our little Mercur}'- has been dashing down the field for runs ranging from forty to eight}- j'-ards. Another disadvantage to the Shelb}' team was the loss of "Red" Fitzpatrick in the second quarter, when he suffered a fracture and dislocation of the leg in a buck over tackle. The Louisville Times declares Slackford "the greatest line-splitter seen on the field for 3'-ears," and sa3''S "he could alwa3-s be relied upon for a pile-driver gain through the line." The open-field work of Bergman was a revelation to the Southerners. To quote from the Courier­
Journal,—"In the third quarter Bergman was given the ball for a run around left end, but before he had gained fifteen 3'ards he had doubled back and forth and merged somewhere in the direction of the left end. In the course of his advance he slipped out of the arms of at least seven of the Camp Shelb3^ warriors, and it seemed as if the whole team made an effort to down him before* he Avas stopped." We are not surprised to hear this, for open-field running was the specialt3^ of the speedy "Little Dutchman" when he was with us. The performance of the other Gold and Blue satel­lites on the team reflected much credit on Coaches Harper and Rockne b3'- their expert skill and art which the masters had drilled into them as members of the varsit3'- squad. 
Several other graduates of our gridiron have distinguised themselves this season on various professional elevens. Down in Youngstown, Ohio, we find ex-Captain Stanie}^ CofaU,'manag­ing, and playing left half. With his "Patricians" are Freeman Fitzgerald at center and "Gillie" Ward and'' Lep'' Stephan at the tackle positions. With this combination of former varsity stars the " Patricians " have won the " Pro " champion­ship of Ohio. On the "Bull Dogs" of Canton, Ohio, "Cap " Edwards opposed Stephan at tackle, when the Canton combination went down to defeat. "Bill" ZeUeher and "Red" Miller pla3'^ed a few games with the Youngstown 
team.. In Detroit, Ray Whipple is written up as the most phenomenal pla3'-er at end that has ever 
drifted into that district. The sensational 
work of Benny Allen for the "Maroons" at 
Lansing last Sunda3'- certainly deserves notice. 
Benn}'' scored all of the points for his team, 21, 
and pla3'-ed a wonderful defensive game in help­
ing to whitewash his opponents. 
On the Fort Wa3'-iie "Friars" we find such 

renowned old-timers as the famous "Gus" 
Dorais, ail-American quarterback a few 3''ears 
ago, "Al" Feen3'- at center, and Joe Pliska at 
half when he can get awa3'" from camp on 
furlough. At Pine Village our unassuming 
Emmet Keefe is pla3dng that silent, head}^ game 
that made him such a favorite with the students 
here. An opponent never knows that Keefe 
is in the game until a pla3'- is started against him, 
and then it becomes evident b3'- the promptness 
with which that pla}'' is broken up, and Keefe 
never fails to open a gap in the opponent's 
line when he is called upon. 
"Big Dutch" Bergman is the redeeming fe.ature of the Wabash A. C. He is showing his heels to opposing tacklers as frequentl3^ ^-S he did while pla3dng with Notre Dame. "Big" Dutch is alwa3'-s fast enough to get awa}'- for several long runs in each'game. "Sam" Finne­gan is teaching the high school team of Boise, Idaho, the rudiments of the game, and " Charlie " Bachman is coaching the DePauw Universit3^ team at Greencastle, Indiana. Charles Crowley is instructing the varsify at the Universit3'' of Dallas. 
In all games in which the old Notre Dame players have had part, it has been a noticeable fact that it was seldom necessary'" to make a substitution for the Gold and Blue "gridder." In some-camps it has happened that our varsit3'­"subs" and members of our freshmen teams have gotten regular places over members of all-conference and all-western stars from other schools. This is interesting information, because it goes to show the -comparative qualit}'- of our football men, the kind of coaching the}'- get,' and it reflects credit upon the spirit and work of our "subs," men who have been kept off the varsity, not because they were not good, but because others were better. It also suggests that many of the Notre Dame "subs" would be stars elsewhere, and the wisdom of Notre • Dame's policy to continue her athletics in the face of great difficulties is evident now in the sturdy fellows she has sent to the military camps. 
Among the distinctive traditions in the athletics of West Point is the custom of "dipping-the colors" before the big game of the year. This ceremony has been pecuhar to the Army-Navy game for decades, and it now distinguishes the Army-Notre Dame game as well. Just before this great inter-sectional contest-begins, the West Point cadets in full dress march from their barracks to "the Plains." Midwa}^ in line of parade are borne the Stars and Stripes and the flag of the Army corps. When the football field is reached the color-bearers accompanied by the cadet band proceed 
THE DIPPING OF THE COLORS. 
to the center of the gridiron; the rest of the cadets form a great hollow square bordering the field. The Academy yells are given. West Point songs are played by the band and* sung by all the cadets, the flag is saluted, and the cadets then march to their places in the stands. "UTien the band ceases its music the 3'-ell-master assumes charge and the Army cheers are given again, the great cheer for the national emblem coming last as a fitting climax. The colors are then dipped solemnly three times to the cadet stands. A cheer for Notre Dame follows, and the colors are dipped once more. The simple but striking ceremony is^over, and "the Plains" awaits the great battle between the men of West Point and the men of Notre Dame. 
m %^ 

To the yarsity "Tex" gave the pep. When Allison hollered out "hipl" That sure made that old Army step. He jumped in the air over Gipp; 
With his "hike'-' and his "hip," He turned twice around. 
With Brandy and Gipp, And lit on the ground. He killed West Point's great two-year "rep." While Gipp through the Army would rip. 
L.'McL. D. J. P. 
.* * 

* * * *
Now Haig with some Irish and Scotch Now Harvard and Yale only play 
Of Germany's line made a botch;  Informal \^ootball,  so  they  say.  
While our wee bit of  Brandy  It's shocking, is't not,  •  
Likewise  came in handy  • To think they've  forgot  
The Army's brave record to blotch.  The formal New Bnglander way.  
C.  M.  TV. H.  R.  

Captain for 1918. 

"Who will lead the lightin' Irish on the gridiron in 191S?" one naturally asks when'he realizes that Captain Jim Phelan has closed his football career and is practising for other and sterner battles. This question was answered by the votes of the warriors theinselves gathered around a festive table in the Oliver Hotel last Sunda}'' evening. It was the last meeting of the whole squad; for "Tex" Allison was about to leave for home preparatory'- to entering camp, and Frank RA'-dzewski would be off for enlist­ment in Cliicago in a day or two. The choice of the players was Frank "Bodie" Andrews of Rock Island, Illinois. "Bodie" is a player-who knows the game thoroughly and has the. enthusiasm that can inject the "fight" itito his men. When the business of the day was completed, the players settled down to an evening of good-fellowship. Coach Harper acted as toastmaster. He complimented the players on ' their gallant fight all through the season, saying he. considered it the most successful year he had ever had at Notre Dame. The victories which 
-the team won in spite of almost insuperable handicaps were due,_ in his opinion, to its machine-like work and to the fact that every man, regular and substitute, gave all that he had in him. Tom Bang spoke briefl)^ sa3''ing he was sorr}'- to leave the "ole" town. Allison also ex­pressed his regrets at the necessity of sevei'ing tlie ties that bound him to the team. Dave Philbin complimented the team on the fight it had shown all the 5''ear, saying that in after life in other battles the memory of this ^'•ear's fight against odds would be an incentive to \'ictor3'^ then. The following men were awarded monograms: Captain Phelan, King, Hayes, Spalding, Philbin, Andrews, Stine, McGuire Zoia, Stanley, Madigan, RydzcAvski, Allison, Brand}^, Balian, Pearson, Smith, Gipp, and Ryan. 
Over There. 
i 

Through the kindness of Lieut. Joseph Gargan (LL. B., '17), who is now with the American Expeditionary Force in France, we have received a cop)'" of the Paris Edition of the New York Herald of Nov. 6, from which we clip the following account: 
NOTRE DAME BESMIRCHES .. . ARMY'S GRIDIRON SLATE. Despite Fierce Onslaughts of Oliphant, 
West Pointers' Plungiflg Back, 
,.• They Are Trounced, 7-2. 
(BY COMMERCIAL CABLE TO THE HERALD.) 

WEST POINT, N. Y:, Sunday {delayed in. trans-' mission).—^Despite the 'redoubtable onslaughts of Oliphant,, right half-back and captain of the West Point Military Academy's football team, the Army lost its • first big gridiron struggle of the season to Notre Dame here, yesterday afternoon. -The final score was 7 to 2. 
, Notre Dame, always a knotty problem for Eastern college teams, pulled a trick play in the last quarter that caught the Cadets off their guard and resulted in a touchdown. The goal was kicked. The soldiers made, their-two points on a sa.fety following the first kick-off. McQuarrie, Army fullback, almost crashed through the visitor's" backfield defence in the third quarter, but the Notre Dame quarterback saved the game by dropping him in his tracks with a vicious tackle. 
Score by periods i 2 3 4— 
Notre Dame— o o o 7—7 
Armyl -2 o o o—2 

THE ARMY GAM^—^A NOTR^ DAME PUNT. 
j^ 



THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
,The Everlasting Spirit. 
TVJAS ever such a team As ours is to-day, Shattered and broken. 
Still fighting its way. Just as of old. With spirit as bold And hearts, as true For the Gold and Blue. 
Everlastinglj'-, Pluckily, • Splendidlj', 
In mightiest clashes. With line-splitting smashes. Passes and dashes," Round the ends slipping. For, victory ripping? Never was such a team 
As ours is to-day, 
1 
Though shattered and broken. Still fighting away. V.- F. F. 


Some Football Facts. 

A review of the.football pages in "The Notre Dame Athletic Guide," published last year b}'- Father Michael Quinlan, reveals many facts of interest. We select the following as samples for our gridiron fans. 
Since her first game of football, on the 23rd of November, 1SS7, Notre Dame has been involved in 195 inter-collegiate contests on the gridiron, of which she has won 144, tied, 13, and lost 38. In these games she has scored 492 8 points aginst 962 for her opponents. The largest total for a single season was 3S9 points made in 1912. 
The first game in 1S87 was with Michigan Universit}'', resulting in a score of 8 to o in favor of the visitors.. The second was played the next year with the same school,' with a victory of 26 to 6 for Michigan. 
. In her' second year of-football, • 1888, Notre Dame, met Michigan on the 20th of April, the same team again the .-.next day, and the Harvard School, on the ; 6th of December. Her first victory in football was won in 1888 against the Harvard School by a score-of 20 to o. In 1894'the season was opened promptly on New. Year's Day in a/game with Chicago University, .resulting 8 tol o-for the Maroons. 
In a.schedule of nine games in 1903 Notre Dame did not permit her opponents to score, while she amassed against them a total of 192 points. 
The largest score ever made by the' varsity was in 1905 when she roUed up 143 points against the American Medical; the second largest was the*^ii6 score against St. Viateur's-College, in 1912. 
From 1906 until 1913 covering eight full seasons, the Gold and Blue lost but three games, defeating within that- time such teams as Pittsburgh, Michigan Aggies, Indiana, Piurdue, Marquette, Penn.State, Michigan, and West Point. On November 12, 1910, Notre Dame started the biggest drive in her history, going through practically four full seasons without defeat. The spell was broken in October 17; 1914, in the game with Yale.' 
In our thirteen contests with Bast em teams, we have won nine, lost three, and tied one.. The schools met were Pittsbiurgh, Penn State, Syracuse, Cartyle, Washington and Jefferson, and the Army. In these games Notre Dame counted 160 points, her opponents 106. In three games with Pittsbiu-gh, the reputed champions of the East this year, Notre Dame achieved two victories and a tie. Pittsburgh did not score in anyone of the three games. Of these thirteen games, six were scoreless for the opponents and two for Notre Dame. 
In her five contests mth the Army team at West Point Notre Dame has won the first, third, and fifth, scoring in all 66 points, against­65 by the Cadets, as foUoAvs : 
Nov. I, 1913, N. D. 2,5'y Army 13 • ' Nov. 7, 1914, N. D. 7; Army 20 Nov. 6, 1915, N. D. 7; Army, o ^ Nov. 4, 1916, 'N. p . 10; Army, 30 = Nov. 3, 1917, N. D. 7; Army, 2 

.The contests in which Notre' Dame - has 
broken even with her opponents were: Oct. 2, 1S94, N. D. 6; Albion 6. y. Oct. 13, 1897, N. D. o; Rush Medical o. Nov. 18, 1899, • N. D. 10; Purdue ro. .; . Nov. 3, 1900, N. D. 6; Beloit 61 Sept. 2S,v 1901, N. D. o; S. B. A. C. o. • . Nov. 22, 1902, N-D: 6; Purdue'6. 
. Nov. 14, 1903, N. D. o; Northwestern o. Nov. 2,'1907; N. p . o; Indiana.o. . Nov. 25, 1909, N..D. b; Marquette o. Nov. 28, 1970, N. D..5; Marquette 5. 
. Nov.. 4, 1911," N. p. d; Pitt o. . '. Nov; 30, 1911, N. D, 6; Marquette o. "; Oct. .13, 1917, N-(D.. o; Wiscoiisih o. V 
Richard J. Dunn, '18. 



THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 


|(^e]paiTid§diolastic 
DISCE-QUASI-SL>\PER-VICrVRUS •vfvE-QU^XSI-CR'-VS-^\ORlTVRVS 
Etitered as Secojtd-Class Mail Mailer. 
Published every Saturdaj' during the School Term at the UNn^ERSITY OF KOTRE D.ILME. 
VOL. LI. DECEMBER I. 1917-NO. 10 

Board of Editors. 
DELMAR J. EDMONDSON, '18 CHARLES W . CALL, 'I S JOHN A. X,EMMER, 'I S JOHN L. REUSS, 'iS GEORGE D. HALLER, '19 THOMAS F.HEALY,'19 BROTHER AUSTIN, C. S. C, 'IS. 
—^All things considered, Notre Dame's foot­ball season just closed is, we should sa}-, the most remarkable one in her remarkable athletic 

histor}'-. And now that The Football Season, the smoke of . the big 
battles has cleared awa}', we may with a very pardonable pride take our final glance in retrospect. The outlook at the beginning of the year was a dark blue. The schedule, which had been arranged in view of normal circumstances and with no anticipation of the conditions that actually, prevailed, was the heaviest we have ever had, and perhaps no other school in the country had suffered more thorough depletion of its football force by the call to arms. In the predicament, however, Notre Dame lost no time deploring her plight, she conceived no daint^^ adjective to explain the circumstances, she coined no .pathetic phrase as- an apolog}'­for her remnant squad, she sought no sympathy b)'" advertising in the dail)'- papers the wreck that patriotism had wrought upon her gridiron machine, and least of all did she play an}'- piece of foothght foolishness in cancelling her schedule because a number of her'star athletes had an­swered their countrj'-'s call to war. She did none of these things, but set to work to make the best team she could out of the material that was left. She had. some very definite dates at Madison, at Lincoln, at West Pointj at Sioux City, and at .Washington, Pa., not to* mention several important receptions at home, and she meant to to be.in those places respectively as best she could according to agreement. But above all, it seemed to her that in view, of the military training of the American youth there was much more reason for athletics in the colleges this year than there had ever been 
before. Coaches Harper and Rockne coralled all the possibilities and proceeded to initiate their tyros in the mysteries of the pigskin with a view to standing them up against Elmer Oliphant 
• and other, old-time Titans of the gridiron. The bantam Joe Brandy, for example—of whom the public may have heard this last month or so—played last year in the local consolation conference as a member of the Corb}'" 'Chicks." 
The one redeeming feature of the situation was the spirit with which this war-time company • of youngsters went about their plainty hopeless task. The}^ seemed to feel, as none but them­selves felt, that it devolved upon .them as a matter of course to do the impossible in making Notre Dame's record this 3^ear as good as the old ones. In the prosecution of the schedule a persistent succession of accidents and the loss of strong men b}'- military draft made each coming contest seem more hopeless. But in ever}- instance the next-best was promptly put into the breach, and the doughty squad of fighters for the Gold and Blue drove on against the next line. And so .the}' battled to the finish, against great and growing odds and against several of the strongest elevens in the land. The result is common knowledge with all who follow college football. One defeat by the veteran team of Nebraska, a tie with the eight old players of Wisconsin, and victories over Kalamazoo College, Morningside, South Dakota, Michigan Agricultural, the Army, and Washington and Jefferson, was not bad. Con­
sidering all the circumstances, it was glorious. It is not necessar}'- to comment on the coach-• ing which developed ex tempore such a finished team out of tlie rawest material. Nor shall we waste any words trying to praise the work of the lads who, without experience, by sheer pluck and push, have made this year's record so unexpectedly phenomenal. "What they did is its own best comphment. , Sufiice it to call t attention to the, fact that the strong teams mentioned above were able to score altogether only, nine points oh them; Nebraska one touch­down and the Army a safety, /^^e have a lurking siisipcion tliat our football men of 1917, like the many others of other years now in ( training at'the varibus military camps, are just about the kind of young fellows .our Uncle Samuel wants;for .the/hard job; he has in hand, the kind that. wiU make "his heart glad'when some .. mbnths hence 1 they will hit the Hindenberg\, line on their way to Berlin:--' . ., 
'-./•'-• -_ •'.---' 
/ 

Local News. 

—The Kentucky Club is to hold its annual banquet December 15. Further details will be announced later. 
—Lost—^A cop3' of the Veritas magazine. Valuable, because it is necessary for the com­
pletion  of  a  set.  Kindl}'  return  to  Rector's  
office  in Sorin..  
—Eugene  McMenamin  and  Allen  Page  of  

Brownson Hall have entered their names for 
the bird contests which is being conducted by 
the Indiana State Board of Forestry 
—The department of Journalism has just received one hundred and twent3''-five selected editorials in phamplet form. They are to be used for study in editorial writing by the Senior class. 
—Students will be pleased to hear of the recent well-deserve'd promotion of our vailitoxy instructor of last year, George A. Campbell, to the rank of captaincy. Captain Campbell is now stationed at Plattsburg, N. Y. 
—Elmer S. Riggs of the Field Museum of" Natural History of the Universiy of Chicago delivered an instructive and well-attended lecture in Washington Hall Saturday, Nov. 24. This is Mr. Riggs' second visit to the University. 
• ^—Students possessing newspaper clippings expressing comments upon the Notre Darae team by football critics aire requested to lend the same to any editor of the SCHOLASTIC in order that the contents may be put on record. All clippings will be retiuned. 
—Members of .the Kansas City Club will send, greeting cards to all former students of Kansas City who are now in some branch of government service. The club has decided to charter .a special car for the members going home for the Christmas holidays. 
. .—^Brownson Hall has resumed its usual cheerful atmosphere since the return of Brother Alphonsus from St. Joseph Hospital. The cord­munions and inasses offered by the Brownsonites during the.illness of their rector undoubtedly played, a great part in his speedy recover)''. 
—The Minim. First Tea-m took on some'out­side-talent lastSaturday afternoon when they defeated ; eleven huskies from South Bend, one of them being a dusky fullback. The little fellows so outclassed the invaders that 
our reporter quite lost track of the score. •—The Sisters wish to extend through the SCHOLASTIC their sincere thanks to the Notre Dame Glee Club for an evening's thorough enjoyment. The singers may be assured of the fact that the quality of the entertainment was deeply appreciated as well as the spirit in which it was given. 
—A poem entitled "On the Battle Field" by Mr. Charles Jones, was the feature of last Sunday's [program in the Holy Cross Liter­ary. Society. An interesting paper was read by Mr. Roche; a declamation given by Mr. Nagel; a short-story by Mr. Bilecki, and an essa}'' read by Mr. Witucki. 
—The Poetr}'- Society held its regular meeting Sunday evening. Discussion of routine news, consideration of the ebullitions of a South Bend bard, and other matter wa? followed by criticism and appraisal of the members' products. "In a Mirror" by George D. HaUer and "FuMll­ment" by Brother Xavier were voted the best submitted. 
—^The following telegram was received by the President during the week: "The pastor and members of the Holy Name Society of Saint Anthon3'-'s Church, Belle\aie, Kentucky, wish to congratulate you and your football team on their glorious victories." Many thanks, Ken^ tucky rooters! We congratulate ourselves upon our victories—and upon our friends. 
—^The following members of Carroll have been awarded athletic monograms for work done during the football season: Charles McKeown (manager), Geroge Barry (captain), Charles Connolly, Raymond Girardin, Jose Aviles, Fernando Aviles, Robert Follett, Mansel White, Leonard Judae, John • Bulmer, George Ward, Gustavo Madero . and WilHam Hodoshi. 
—^The- Butcher ,Boys of South Bend, who were defeated by the Carroll Hall teafa two weeks ago, retirrned with reinforcements last Sunday, bent upon downing their former -op-' ponents. The Carrblhtes, however, refused to be beaten and proved themselves the original Butcher boys themselves by slaughtering- tie invaders, reinforcements and- all. The final score was 48 to o. . , ' 
^Th e regular, conference of Holy Gross priests was, conducted in the reading room of Holy Cross Seminar)-, on November .22. The ~ papers read were as follows: "The Sacrament of Extreme Unction" b)"- Father Gorka,—dis­cussion by Fathers Scheier and Sherrer; "The Priest and the non-Catholic," by Father O'Neill,—discussion by Fathers Vagnier and Minnick; "The Holy Father on Preaching" b)'­Father O'Donnell, — discussion by Fathers Irving and McGinn. 
—The Universit}'' has just received a col­lection of the relics of Major-General Don Carlos Buell, of Civil War fame. The}'' consist of fift}'" maps, man}^ volumes of correspondence, the General's war manuals, his diploma from West Point, pistols, sabre, saddle, uniform coat and the coffin plate bearing his name. The articles were presented through the gener­osit}- of friends and relatives by Father Linde­smith, who was himself a Civil War chaplain and whose family has seen service in every American war. 
—^T^T'ednesday evening, Nov: 28, William S. Hart again reformed for the benefit of the students, but this time reward f ollo.wed not upon reformation. "Wolf" Lowry was a story after the Hart routine, bad' man plus good girl equals reformation plus happiness and a triangle. In tliis pla}'-, however, the divi­sors or something got mixed, and "Hart's" though trumps, met the joker and lost out. If William S. Hart were to combine with a Bret Harte we might get an original as well as interesting picture occasionally. 
—^A Catholic paper of established reputation has been offered for sale to an}'- member or mem­bers of the Notre Dame School of Journalism who may wish to enter "that particular field. The paper in question has episcopal approbation, is in a sound financial condition and boasts of carrjdng the largest amount of legal advertising of an}'' Catholic paper in tlie United States. The present editor is retiring on account of old age, having been connected with the paper for twenty-five years. Anyone interested can ob­tain information from one of the instructors in the Department of Journalism. ' 
—One of the "scarcely" populated halls .which has hitherto enjoyed privileges en masse, now finds itself frequently flooded with darkness at an exceediiigly early hour. An unfortunate resident of this hall slipped down the stairs in the darkness a short-time ago, disturbing the slumbers of the guardian to such an. extent that in order to (avoid?) siinilai; mishaps, he now turns off the lights every tiiiie a mouse ; 

starts up the stairs. A dictionary of psycholog}'^ tells us that it is-much easier to find one's way in the light than in darkness, but "she" may be wrong. 
—Father Cavanaugh and Father McGinn spoke at the meeting of the South Bend .Zionist Society in' the Temple Beth-El Sunday after­noon at whicli Judge Hugo Pam of Chicago, brother of Dr. Max Pam, founder of the Notre Dame school of journalism, delivered the prin­cipal address. The Zionist movement in South Bend is headed by. Rabbi Liebert of Tempel Beth-El. Herman Ries, president of the society, Max Adler and A. R. Mayerfield. The move­
" ment represents an attempt to recover for the Jewish people the land of their forefathers in Palestine. 
—^Tlie Senior class has voted to give the entire contents of its treasury to the fund which is to be raised towards the purchase of a Notre Dame ambulance for the American Ambulance Field Service. For this purpose it is necessar}' to raise five thousand dollars. Father Matthew Walsh is treasurer of the fund and those to whom its collection has been delegated are: Frank Monaghan, Leonard Mayer, James Hanion, 
• Joe Riley, Cornelius Whelan, and Edward Harbet. The project was initiated by the seniors who have prepared, a circular letter "to be sent to all parents informing them of the proposed action. 
—^The Varsity was informally entertained while in Washington, Pa., by the local council . of the Knights of Columbus. A program was arranged and refreshments were served, after which John J. Curran', local Grand Knight, spoke as did also Dr. S. H. Rinehardt, lecturer 
* of the council. Rev. Thomas Zacharski of the Cafinonsburg said a few words and acting Captain Rydzewski replied . for the team. Assistant Coach Rockne also spoke briefly. The N. D. Alumni of Pittsburgh also laid tentative. plans for a banquet after the game, but the early.leaving-of the team prevented their being-carried out. . 
—tThrough one ;pf those mistakes which so frequently occur in the handling of copy, no ^ 
•announcement was made of a rather important ' happening at the University-recently. We refer to the formation of a Notre Dame Golf Club. Through the influence.'of Father ; Michael Ouinlan, an organization has been effected and the membership .already", numbers about thirty. 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC i6j 
At' a recent meeting in Walsh hall the following officers .were elected for the year: Rev. Michael Ouinlan, honorary president; 'D.-D . Smith, president; D. J. Kdmondson, vice-president; 
B. C. Kirk, secretary-treasurer; C. F. Baine, auditor-of-accounts. Although a- similar or­ganization existed at the University in time past, we feel sure that this one has come to stay. 
—Dr. Frank J. Powers has secured a verj­satisfactory arrangement with the State author­ities. Students of anatomy in the medical school will not lack, under this arrangement, ample material for dissection. 
—^Students in the agricultural department with Prof. Johns, made a trip of inspection to the plant of the Burnoil Engine Go. in South 
•Bend recently. Mr. Bowers of the-Burnoil Co. entertained his guests Avith a highly instructive address. 
—The Fort- Wa^'^ne Journal-Gazette of recent issue gave very' complimentar}'' reports of the missionary labors of Reverend George Finni­gan, C. S. C., and Reverend Bernard Mulloy, 
C. S. C., in the Cathedral parish of that cit}'". Both Fathers are members of the Holy Cross Mission Band, the latter haAdng recently re­turned from a month's work among Kentucky "churches. 
—James P. O'Neill, a resident of Brownson Hall in 1S83, was recently promoted to the rank of Brigadier-General. In his time Mr. O'Neill was an enthusiastic member of the Notre Dame, Cadet Corps,' and upon leaving school enlisted in the service of . the government. He • saw active service in Cuba and in the Philippine Islands, and participated in the battle of San Juan Hill in the Spanish-American War. His many Notre Dame friends congratulate him upon his well-merited" appointment. 
-^-^Lieutenant Paul Perigord, a priest who resigned his position as professor of Theology at St. Paul's Seminary to enlist in the French army-at the beginning of the war, visited the university Saturday. Before returning to South Bend to lecture before the Rotary club, the French soldier-priest paid a visit to Rev. Gilbert Frangais, Superior-General of the Congregation of Holy Cross at St. Joseph's farm. Father Perigord has been wounded many times and has received .five :decorations for valor, one from the hand of Marshall Joifre himself. He is in'this country following President Wilson's request for speakers to arouse French war spirit in America. During his stay he is also serving as instructor in the training camps. Father Perigord expects to return and address the' students. 
—^The department of South American history has just received from the Rev. Dr. Zahm, 
C. S. C , its founder, a collection of some fifty volumes and several hundred photographs and slides dealing with South America. The shipment contained also many articles of interest for the museum—an Indian hammock poisoned arrows, an Argentine saddle, a mate gourd and bombilla, flags of various countries, etc. Among the books, special interest attaches to'Garibay's "Compendio de los Quarenta I/ibros de las Chronicas, y Universal Historia de Esapfia," an exceedingly rare work in four parchment-bound quartos, printed in Barcelona in 1628. The collection of pictures includes the Argentine exhibit at the San Francisco exposition and a special set of views of Chile prepared for Dr. Zahm by the Chilean Embassy in Washington. 
Besides the South Americana there are a great many books and objects of art for the general library, and the "Woman in Science" collection. Among these there are foiu: exquisite tapestries, representing respectively St. Mark's of Venice, the Bay of Naples, the Roman Colosseum and the Great Mosque of Cairo. 
—Thirty members of the New England Club enjoyed an old-fashioned Thanksgiving Day dinner at the Farmers Trust Inn on the evening of Thursday last. Raymond Murray presided as toastmaster and the principal guests of the evening were Rev. John McGinn and Mr-. Miles W. O'Brien of the South Bend Lathe works. A. feature of the occasion was the appearance of representatives from each of the New England States in the .entertainment and talks accompanying the dinner. The following participated: John Ambrose, ^Walter O'Keefe, Patrick- Granfield, James Dooley, John Massuer, James Sullivan, Thos. I^avery, WilHam Baker, Wilfred Riley, Vincent Fagan 
. and Dave Hayes. The affair was carried out with the success usually attending the New England Club fimctions. 
. —^A packed house greeted the Notre Dame and South Bend talent taking part in the Red Cross concert in Washington Hall last Monday evening. Besides realizing dose to four hundred dollars, the concert was a success from the entertaining standpoint. 
i6S THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
The Notre Dame orchestra was at its best and opened the program with a stirring, well-played o\'^rture. Then following the Star Spangled Banner, the Glee Club sang two numbers which were well received. The songs 
• by Mrs. Barnes, who combines a pleasing personahtj- with an excellent voice, were exceedingly well sung. "Duke" Staples made the audience laugh with his character songs, in spite of the fact that some of them recalled John Riley of last 3'^ear's Glee Club. Miss Helen Guilfo34e proved herself an artist in solo work as well as in accompan3dng. Her playing showed remarkable technic, and' with true expression and shading, no doubt could be left as to her ability. G. Lawrence Ott sang two songs composed by Professor John D. Becker of the Universit}'- conservatory. Both were tuneful and well sung. Mrs. Gertrude Miller Frash and Jose Corona did well. Walter O'Keefe 
was one of the big hits with his Harr}'" Lauder impersonations and songs.- Charles McCauley upheld his reputation in his "Ten Minutes of Ragtime," and was an appropriate choice for the close of the evening's performance. All in all, the-concert was a big success. 
—^Although the Minims and Carroll do not participate in interhall athletics, the boys of both halls deserv^^e a menti'on in any athletic number of the SCHOLASTIC. Some of our brightest football stars of the past and present learned the rudiments of the game while wearing the knickerbockers of those departments, and the future seems to promise even more than the past. Among the minims, football activities this year were on a par with other 3'^ears, which means that practically every minim was the member of one team and sometimes of three and four. Every recreation presented a game or two and in no case was the scoring a run­away—^which indicates considerable tackling and defense ability. In Carroll the "Teenie 

•Weenies," or ex-minims, showed a degree of team work which was surprising in youngsters, and on every occasion when they hooked up with the heavier teams from South Bend, they finished with the higher score to their credit. The first team of Carroll, along with its subs, presented some very promising material which will imdoubtedly count in interhall activities later oh. Even the Brownson Chicks found the CarroUitesa^ tough proposition and the heavy teams which visited the University from South Bend had no chance at all. Stars there were in ­the teams mentioned above, but the less flasli3'­pla3''ers toiled so hard to uphold the honors of their respective teams that we refrain .from mentioning individuals. Here's to the Carroll and Minim teams! 

The Glee Club Concert. 
The Glee Club gave its third annual concert in Washington Hall, Tuesday evening. The 

•entertainment was of a high quality throughout, showing a careful stud3'" of technique, a classic selection of numbers, and an exceeding^ pleasing rendition. The strains of the National anthem began the evening. The overture "Lustspiel" was given b3i^ the finest orchestra we have known in 3'-ears at Notre Dame. Too much credit for its entire performance can not be allowed its industrious director, Mr. Dillon Patterson. The opening song, Grieg's "Land-sighting," was ver3'' effectively rendered. Per­haps tlie gem of the evening was "The Sword of Ferrata," which was characterized by nicety of finish, distinctness of enunciation and em­phasis, and was given with spirit. 
Jose Corona sang several well-appreciated solos. Mr. Corona has what is styled a Spanish tenor, and he is a capable and finished artist. Walter O'Keefe, picturesquely costumed, gave "A Wee Bit. of Skotch." To style him the Harry Lauder of Notre Dame were insufficient praise. He has a natural and unassuming stage presence that is pleasing, a good voice and skill as a monologist. Charles McCauley pleased with '' Ten Minutes of Ragtime.'' His dramatic singing of "Over There" was tlie best of his selections. He -is a gifted interpreter of the modern ragtime spirit. 
The entire program was agreeable and well-encored. The Banjo-Mandolin Club was re­grettably absent. If suggestions are permitted, a little variety in the offerings of the Club as a^ unit would not be amiss. 
* • *' 
Obituary. 

To Brother Owen, C. S. C, a member of the junior class, we offer our S3''mpathy. on the death of his mother, Mrs. Patrick Lynch, Kalamazoo, Michigan. Althoughv her passing was rather sudden it was not, unprovided, for all her life" was she a model, Catholic. May her precious soul rest, in peace. 
Personals. 

—John Haniia, former student of the Bngineer­[i ing course at the University, is a machinist's mate on the U. S. Ship. Michigan. 
—The United States' District Attorney's office seems to hold a certain fascination for Notre Dame men.' We have just received .the ncAvs that Elmer Whitty, old student and former-football player, is now an assistant U. S. district attorney. 
—Clement L. Ulatowski (I/L..B., '11), former Varsity football player and later member ,of tlie Cubs, is now serving his countr}'- in the no.'vj. If "Clem" still retains his old batting 
_ e)'-e, he will surel)'- send a good-many.of the Kaiser's torpedo pitchers- to the.bench. 
-7—Lieutenant Joe Gargan of the U. S.. Marines writes from "somewhere in France" that he is in charge of a machine gun unit, and. hopes, to be sent to the front soon., After, three-years of 
^ cheer leading at Notre Dame, going ,'.'over-the top'/ should be a matter of the least consequence to Joe. ,. .. ' ... 
—Coach Andy Smith of. the University of-California football team,-' would > like. to bring Notre Dame out .there next 3^ear for a "real big game" and the year after to play us in Chicago. California claims .the. Pacific;coast chanipionship, and knows where to look for. a worthy rival. 
—Being a superb • quarter-miler has not satisfied, the ambitions of John Plant (E. E., '14), ex-track captain of the Varsit)-, who has entered Rush Medical College. We feel ^con­fident that.no matter how much "Rush''-there is in, it, we .will find our diminutive sprinter leading the field. : 
—The proposition that "Some laT\7-ers are honest" has again been.proved in the case of Harold-Madden (LL. B., '15). -He is employed in the Trust Department of the Chicago Savings Bank and Trust Company. Your classmates and University friends wish you a rapidadvance­ment in your chosen profession, "Harold. 
—Some of the present generation on the' campus have X frequently - asked, ."What has become of Xefty' Clerkin?" Leonard was a student in: Brownson Hall in 'i3-'i4, but is now pursuing his studies in St. Vincent's High School, Akron, Ohio. , "Lefty" 'is starring in all branches of athletics, at St» Vincent's". Perhaps he will return to us next year. 
—^Forest Fletcher, star track man Co9-'"i3), and inember of the American track team that won the Olympic Games" at Stockholm, is again serving his country on a foreign field. This time Forest is Sergeant in charge of the Washington and Lee University Hospital. Corps which is now serving in France. We hope to see our old friend again on the winning team. 
.—^The friends of Edmund Sylvestre (LL. B., ' 17) wiU be interested in learning that he is now. serving his country "somewhere in France". "Eddy" received a lieutenancy in the adjutant general's department, and has been working, in Washington up to his departure for France two weeks ago.. Notwithstanding the fact that we can enjoy "Eddy's" congenial smile only in retrospection, it is, nevertheless, gratifying to know that.another Notre Dame manis-mak-­ing good in the ser^ace. 
^Lieutenant E. A.- ("Nig") Kane (C. E., '14) -is stationed .at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. 
- Because "Nig" used to-keep Brother;Florian busy quelling disturbances in St. Joseph HaU, don't for a minute imagine that "Nig" is ser\'-­ing a sentence at the Fort. On the contrary he. is serving his Uncle Sam and longing for a cruise on the Atlantic, with'France as a desti­nation.. If "Nig" gets a chance to rough-house the Kaiser, Wilhelm will wish that Brother' "Flo" was around to separate them. ­
—^We print the following interesting .extract 
from a letter received by Father. Foik from 
Bernard Voll, a graduate of last year and varsity 
debater, who is in the second Officers, Training. 
Camp at Fort Oglethorpe, Tenn.: 
Life in this camp is everything that you have heard about it and then some. From the attitude of the commanders, it seems that they intend to eliminate -the physically unfit and those who lack the necessary stamina. I do not know, nor does anyone else, what is the status of each candidate; but one thing is certain,—^I can stand it physically,- and I think I have the stamina also. N. D.' gave me that > if I did not possess it before, so if I am eliminated it will be for some other reason I have been in the trenches thirty-six hours, eight of which I -wras in water up to my knees. . . This week we go into the trenches for three days and two nights, which will be the hardest test of all. Next to trench work comes guard duty—twenty-four hours of which I had in rain and cold. But with all its faults I like the life and mean to stay with it, if possible, to., the end, when I, hope to continue my studies. 
The best of luck to you, "Bemy!" With all, 
that Notre Dame "pepper" you can't help but 
succeed. 
Dr. Bank's Lecture. 
Dr. Edgar Banks, the noted archeologist, gave an interesting lecture Saturda}'- evening on ancient Crete. Knossos, capital of Minos the legendar}'- king of Crete, and the famous lab3^rinth of the Minotaur, were thrown upon the screen exactly as recent excavations have revealed them. The love tale of Prince Theseus, tlie stor}'- of conflict with the Minotaur, the tragic home-coming of the hero and the suicide of his ro3-al father, in connection with the recentl}'' unearthed scenes of these exploits, gave zest to a subject which might otherwise have been dr}"-. 


Noted War Chaplain Speaks. 

Friday afternoon the student body attended one of the finest lectures ever given in Wash­ington Hall. L'Abbe Patrice Ftynn, Cure de Suresnes (Pres Paris) and Aumonier Militaire, gave an account of his experience in the great war. The patriotic French priest spent twenty-two months in the trenches as chaplain, and is at present touring the country in the interests of his government. From a heart overflowing with grief, jet without rancor, Father Flynn pictured the ga)'', indomitable spirit of his countr}'^—the heroism and faith of its soldiers. He expressed himself as feeling quite at home in America since this nation is now one with France. The Abbe described the havoc of war, the cities devastated, the armies fallen, but particularl}?- the heroic sacrifice of the chaplains and Catholic soldier}'- of France. He told of the remarkable revival of faith over all the land; of soldiers dying like heroes and saints. He also gave a graphic picture of that epic conflict—the retaking of the outer forts of. Verdun. Following the lecture. Father Flynn exhibited views of trench life and of the French soldiers,—"TOY boys," as he affectionatety called them. 
"The spirit of France" will no more be an abstract phrase with us at Notre Dame—^we have seen it personified. The sorrow over a stricken fatherland which still has room to forgive; the brave heart and the gay smiles in the; face of death; the pathos that laughs with a voice shaky with tears; childlike faith "and happy loVe—^this is France. And L'Abbe Flynn had but to speak to us of what he knew to show us tiie throbbing heart of France. 

Notre Dame.Upholds Western Honors Again. 
Before the ardor of Eastern critics cooled after the unlooked for defeat of the Army, the Gold and Blue slipped quietly back into Oriental territory and snatched another game a week or two ago, this time from the strong Wash­ington and Jefferson team. Two victories in the East within twenty-two da5'-s is a record probably never before attained b}'^ any Western team. 
The W and J game was a thriller from start to finish, with the outcome always in doubt until the last whistle. Notre Dame entered the game with her man power close to the minimum only to.be robbed of the services of DeGree and R^'-dzewski before the game had fairly started. Madigan and Stine, fortunately proved most capable substitutes, and the loss of the two stars looked like the incentive that rallied the remaining men to the supreme effort that resulted in a concerted drive down the field and a field goal that won the day. 
When one considers that Notre Dame gained first down on but three occasions and that not a single forward pass of the three attempted was completed, it will be seen what a desperate assault the Gold and Blue waged in the third quarter to bring the ball to a point where Brandy could send it fli^ng over the crossbar. The W and J team was by far the heavier, and weight counted more than usual on a field where chalk lines were invisible and broom paths in the snow indicated the 3-ard lines. 
From the beginning it was evident that W and J was out to win and they used every­thing in their repertoire to gain an advantage. The game was scarcely under way before forward passes and peculiar formations were unpacked to disconcert, if possible, the invaders. Nine­teen times they sent forward passes fl3dng toward the Notre Dame goal, but so effective was' our boys' defense that only a small fraction of that number were completed and the total 5'-ardage gained did not exceed fifty 5'^ards. 
Notre Dame played a style of game adapted directly to her resources. Bahan steered the team from quarter, and acting under instruc­tions did not try a forward pass in the forepart of the game, continually kicking oh second or third downs. , The reason for the non-passing attack was that Notre Dame had no^'one who could throw the ball accurately, andl^Miller's constant gaining on every exchange of punts 



THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
with McCreight was preferable to the uncertain advance by rushing the ball. 
Notre Dame waited hopefully for the break that would give her any kind of a chance to score. Because Notre Dame had been billed as "the foremost exponent of the forward pass in intercollegiate football" was no reason why Bahan should hazard the ground gained by Miller's punting and the brilliant tackling of the Notre, Dame ends and tackles behind the line of scrimmage.' At the psychological moment, however, Bahan attempted two aerial thrusts, and though neither was successful, they served to extend the W and J secondary defense sufficiently for Bahan and Brandy to execute the placement goal from the field. .That bit of strateg}'" gave us the victory. 
The daity press reviewed the gaime in detail. An example follows: On a snow-flecked field and with a frigid temperature prevailing, Notre Dame defeated Washington and Jefferson at football here this afternoon, 3 to o. Brandy's placement goal at the 34-yard line in the third quarter, with Quarterback Bahan holding the ball, constituted the only scoring of the contest, which was the first ever played between these teams. Neither team had any decided advantage at any time and after the first half it looked like a scoreless tie unless some "break" might occur that would provide an opportunity for the fortunate eleven. This "break" came in the third quarter, when a W & J man tackled Brandy after the latter had signaled for a fair catch in receiving McCreight's punt. Once before the W and J tacklers, in their eagerness to down the man taking a punt, had hurled Brandy in his tracks when he threw up his hand for a fair catch. The usual 15-yard penalt3'- for the foul was given Notre Dame on the second occasion and the baU was placed in scrimmage on the W and J 25-yard line. Then Notre Dame endeavored to put into execution its much-vaunted forward pass attack, but the W and J secondary defense Avas alert and smeared two in succession. THS KICK THAT DECIDED 
Then Bahan cleared a little space at the 34-yard line for an apparent placement goal. Brandy had tried for a placement earlier in the game and it had been blocked, being a weak attempt. It did not look at all probable that he would succeed this time under the field conditions that prevailed, and with the W and J forwards always rushing through on kicks, but Brandy, who had distinguished himself earlier in the year, on the visitor's first visit to the East by scoring a touchdown on the Army, stepped forward quickly when the ball was passed, and,sent the ball high and far between the uprights. The goal could have been kicked at the 45-yard line, as it had wonderful distance. 
- Washington and Jefferson had much the better of the first half. It rushed the ball for three first downs -during this _time, twice in the initial quarter and again 
in the second period. In addition, it secured two first downs through fouls committed by the Westerners. Notre Dame did not make a single first down in the first two periods and but three all told during the con­test, these all coming in the third period, when it showed its one real consistent offensive. 
BRACE COMES TOO LATE W and J braced toward the end of the game and registered two first downs in rapid succession, making two more than Notre Dame throughout the contest. But the red and Black failed again to show any scoring power in its running attack and never seriously threatened the alien's goal. Washington and Jefferson started off like a winning team in the initial quarter. Notre Dame received the kickoff and was quickly forced to punt when it found an impregnable barrier in the Re'd and Black line. John Tres'sel, the W^ and J right end, who was moved into the backfield on the offense, jammed through a tackle for 7 yards after McCreight had run an end for four. W and J mixed in a few forward passes with its running attack and carried the ball to the Notre Dame 4o'-yard line. Here Notre Dame held and forced a punt. The Red and Black cut loose with another display of offensive strength early" in the second period, reg­istering another first down and ramming the ball through the line for steady gains, while an occasional forward pass was successful. But Notre Dame again halted the advance and, assisted by a 15-yard penalty meted out to Captain McCreight's team, held off the Washington and Jefferson onslaught without being in serious danger. CAPTAirr IS BANISHED Then came an incident that came near proving disastrous for the Western eleven. At about the middle of the second period an official claimed he detected acting Captain Rydzewski, the giant Notre Dame center, in the act of striking a Washington and Jefferson player. Referee Crolius ordered the big Pole from the game. The visiting players and coaches protested that Rydzewski had not struck an opponent, but had merely used his hands in a proper defensive mariner. The protest failed to stand, however, and Notre Dame was penalized half the distance to its goal, the ball being taken to the 21-yard line. Made des­perate by the setback the Notre Dame team fought like tigers on the defensive. A line play and two W and J forward passes failed to gain an inch .and McCreight tried for a placement goal at the 30-yard line. Quarter­back Stobbs holding the ball. The ball Avas picked up by Bahan, who ran it back , to the exact line where W and J had previously held it, the 21-yard line. The third period saw Notre Dame tearing into the Washington and Jefferson defense tor the only consis­tent and sustained attack by either team during the entire contest. After receiving the kickoff W and J was forced to kick, McCreight getting off a very weak punt, - which went, to Notre Dame in - midfield. Witli Bahan and Pearson carrying the ball most of the time and the quarterback calling his own signal two out of three times, Notre Dame advanced the ball steadily. Then W, and J'held and Brandy tried a placement goal on the 35-yard line. The Washington and Jefferson 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
forwards rushed through and blocked the attempt, v but Notre Dame showed itself a lucky team again by recovering for first down on the W and J 15-yard line. 
COMES THE BIG CHANCE 
Notre Dame opened up again with its slices off tackle and with Bahan carrying the ball until it had gone to the Red and Black 15-yard line. Here Henry and Stein got busy, and on two successive downs hurled back the Notre Dame backs for an aggregate loss of ten yards. An onside kick caught by Ruble brought the ball back to the 20-yard line and W and J kicked out of danger apparently. 
But the foul in tackling the man trying to make a fair catch was disastrous and gave the Westerners their one big opportunit3% which they took advantage of. W~and J had a heart-breaking piece of hard luck in the fourth period, which, if the "break" had' gone the other wa3', would have given the Red and Black a touchdown and a victory. ' 
Notre Dame in its own territory was stopped dead by the Washington and Jefferson defense and Miller went back to kick. Henry tore through the line .like a streak of lightning and blocked the punt. Three or four players of both teams rushed after the bounding ball, but a Notre Dame man managed to fall on it on its own three-yard line, with a half dozen Red and Black clad figures fighting desperately to get it. 
Had W and J got the ball then, nothing outside a miracle could have prevented it from scoring. 
VISITORS BEST KICKERS 
About the middle of the fourth period W and J enthused its supporters by a fine display of forward passing. Taking the ball in midfield, McCreight began to shoot the leather forward on short lobs to Tressel, Carroll and Stein. Two successive first downs were made, and the visiting backs were literally standing on their heads, unable to fathom the play. W and J 

^ tried once too often, however, and lost the ball on downs Avhen it failed to complete this play on the fourth down. 
Notre Dame played a dilatory game toward the end, kicking on first down and merely staving off a score. 
The Notre Dame line defense at times was brilliant, the tackles and ends particularly ploughing through and making tackles. The same was true of the W and J tackles. In kicking Notre Dame had much the better of the argument. Miller's punts gaining over Mc­Creight's on almost every exchange. 
Bahan featured in his running with the ball, while McCreight and Tressel were forward pass stars for the Red and Black. Stobbs was the most consistent grotmd-gainer for his team in a running attack. The game in detail follows: 
FIRST PERIOD 
Washington and Jefferson w^on the toss and* elected to kick off. Notre Dame defending the south goal. Pearson returned the ball five yards to the 2 5-yard line, Pearson ran aroimd the W and J left end for five yards. DeGree of Notre Dame was hurt in the first rush and was 'forced to leave the game, the first he had started in this year.' He was replaced by Madigan. 
Brandy gained a yard at the other end, then fumbled but recovered. Miller punted to Stobbs, who Avas thrown at the W and J 35-yard line. MfcCreight circled Notre Dame's left end for four yards. Tressel made first down through Notre Dame's right tackle on the W and J 47-yard line. ^ 

Ruble failed off Notre Dame's left tackle. A forward 

pass through McCreight was incomplete. A forward 
pass, McCreight to 'Tressel, gained six yards at Notre 
Dame's left. Bahan received McCreight's punt and 
was thrown by Henry on the Notre Dame 27-yard line. 
Pearson gained two yards at W and J's left side, and 
Brandy gained three more at W and J's right end. 
McCreight made a fair catch of Miller's punt on the W and J 30-yard line. Tressel made two yards at Notre Dame's left guard. Zoia broke up a W and J forward pass. Miller received McCreight's punt and was thrown on the Notre Dame 45-3'-ard line. Bahan slammed through center for five yards. Pearson got three yards off W and J's left tackle. Miller was held for no,gain in a plunge at center. Miller was hurried in his punt and sent the ball out of bounds on the W and J 30-yard line. 
King tackled AlcCreight after the W and J captain had made four yards. Tressel, running from kick formation, got three at the Notre Dame left end. McCreight Avas stopped for no gain at Notre Dame's right guard. McCreight in a plunge at the opposing left tackle made first down on the W and J 46-yard line. 
Madigan hurled Ruble for a four-yard loss trying Notre; Dame's right end. Washington and Jefferson failed on a forw^ard pass. McCreight's punt was taken by Bahan, who returned to the -Notre Dame 41-yard line. Miller punted to Stobbs, who made a fair catch on the W and J 35-yard line. Stobbs got three yards at center. Tressel ran the Notre Dame right end for three yards. End of first period. Score: W and J, o; Notre Dame, o. 
SECOND PERIOD 

A forward pass, McCreight to Carroll, made first down in midfield. Stobbs gained two yards in a dash at center. Stobbs tried to make a forward pass but Avas tackled for a four-yard loss before he could throw the ball. Brandy broke up a long forward pass. Bahan signaled for a fair catch on McCreight's punt but he was tackled by a Washington and Jefferson man, and Washington and Jefferson drcAV a 15-yard penalty. 
Pearson lost a yard trying Washington and Jeffer­son's left side. Miller failed at the same spot. Stobbs made a fair catch of Miller's punt on the Washington and Jefferson 36-yard line. Andrews broke through and tossed Tressel for a 12-yd. loss at N. D's left end. 
Zoia got Ruble from behind after a two-yard gain. McCreight's punt was allowed to fall to the ground and it struck a Notre Dame player. Henry picked it up and ran to the Notre Dame 34-yard line. McCreight hit center for two yards. Stein dropped a perfect forward pass from McCreight. Tressel was tackled by a Notre Dame man before' he had caught a forward pass from McCreight. 
Washington and Jefferson got first down Avhere the foul was committed on the Notre Dame 40-yard line. Stobbs gained two yards at center. Tressel failed to gain running at Notre Dame's left end. Acting Captain Rydze\yski Qi Notre Dame was put out of the game for 

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
striking a Washington and Jefferson player and Notre Dame penalized half the distance to the goal, putting the ball on the Notre Dame 21-yard line. 
Madigan took Rydzewski's place and Stine replaced IMadigan at right guard. Washington and Jefferson did not gain in a line play and then failed at a forward pass. Another Washington and Jefferson forward pass failed. With Stobbs holding the ball, McCreight tried for a placement goal at the 29-yard line. The ball went short and Bahan carried it back to his 21-yard line. 
Brandy ran the Washington and Jefferson right tackle for three yards. Pearson did not gain at center on a criss-cross play. On a kick play through center Bahan gained three yards. Miller made a wonderful punt when the ball Avas rolled back to him. 
Stobbs ran the ball back to the Notre Dame 3S-yard line. Washington and Jefferson lost five yards on a forward pass, McCreight to Garbisch. Ruble gained nine yards on a second forward pass from McCreight.' Stine broke up a Washington and Jefferson forward 
pass  as  the  half  ended.  Score: Washington and  
Jefferson,  o;  Notre Dame,  o.  
THIRD  PERIOD  

• Philbin now acting captain of Notre Dame. Neither team changed its lineup. Madigan kicked off for Notre Dame. McCreight ran the ball back 15 yards from the five yard line. McCreight slipped off Notre Dame's left tackle for .two yards. Bahan took McCreight's punt to the W and J 45-yard line, a gain of ten yards. 
Miller tore around the W and J right end for seven yards. Bahan gained two yards at center. Bahan made Notre Dame's first down in a plunge at the W and J left Guard. Ball on W and J's 32-yard line. Pearson gained two yards at the W and J left end. On a criss-cross play Brandy failed at the W and J right side. Stobbs broke up a Notre Dame forward pass: 
Brandy's attempt at a placement goal at the 40-yard line was blocked and Brandy recovered on the W'and J 38-yard line. Bahan broke through the W and J line for 15 yards and first down. Bahan again carried the ball, taking it four yards at W and J's left tackle. Pearson gained two yards at the W and J right tackle. 
Pearson made first' down on the W and J 15-yard line. Henry tossed Bahan for a loss of two yards at the W and J left end. Miller tried a forward pass, but Stein got him for a five-yard loss before he could throw the ball. 
Ruble got Bahan's kick and returned it to the W and J 17-yard line. Brandy signaled for a fair catch on McCreight's punt; he was tackled, and W and J drew a fifteen yard penalty, the ball being on the W and J 25-yard line. Brandy gained one yard at W and . J's right tackle. A forward pass, Pearson to Bahan, was incomplete. Stobbs broke up another forward pass. 
AVitli Bahan holding the ball at the 35-yard line. Brandy kicked a placement goal. Score: Notre Dame, 3; W and J, o. 
Stein kicked off for Washington and Jefferson. Philbin received the ball and was thrown on the Notre Dame 33-yard line. Brandy went out of bounds for no gain. Third period ended. Score: Notre Dame, 3; W and J, o. 
FOURTH PERIOD 

Bahan gained three yards at W and J's right side. 
Miller hit the same side for six more. Henry blocked 
Miller's punt. Miller tore back and recovered on the 
four-3'ard line. Miller punted from back of his own 
goal. Stobbs ran the ball back to the Notre Dame 
35-yard line. 
Tressel slammed through Notre Dame's left tackle for four yards. King dropped McCreight for a three-yard loss at the Notre Dame right end. Carroll caught a forward pass from McCreight and gained four yards. McCreight failed at a try at drop field'goal at the 33­yard line, the ball going over the goal line. Notre Dame put the ball in scrimmage on the 20-yard line. 
Brandy failed to gain the W and J right tackle. 
Pearson was stopped for no gain at the W and J right 
end. Bahan, on a quick dive at the W and J left guard, 
gained two yards. King threw Stobbs in his tracks 
on the W and J 46-yard line, when he caught Miller's 
punt. A forward pass, McCreight to Stein, gained six 
yards. 

Stobbs jammed through center for a first: down. 
Tressel caught a forward-pass from McCreight and ran 
eight yards. Stobbs garnered two yards more and a 
first down. A forward pass, McCreight to Stobbs, 
gained six j'^ards. W and J failed on the next forward 
pass. Notre Dame broke up a forward pass. 
Notre Dame took the ball on downs on its 22-yard 
line when a W and J forward pass failed.. Notre Dame 
failed in two plays at the line. Notre Dame failed for 
the third time, 'Bahan carrying the ball. Miller 
punted out of bounds on the W and J 25-yard line. 
McCreight's punt was allowed to roll along the field, 
going to Notre Dame on its 22-yard line. Pearson was 
thrown on the Notre Dame iS-yard line when he 
caught McCreight's punt. Stein throwing him back 
five yards when tackled. 
Smith replaced Stein and Stein went in for Garbisch. 
Bahan got three yards at the W and J left guard. 
The same play on the other side failed to gain. Brandy 
was stopped for no gain at center, as the game was 
concluded. Final score: Notre Dame, 3; W and J, o. 
Hayes L E Carroll Andrews L T Henry Zoia L G Wimberly Rydzewski C [...Guy Degree.^ R G Straw Philbin R T..._:._„ : Garbisch King..._ f R E Stein Bahan Q Stobbs Pearson:. L H Tressel Brandy...: R H. Ruble Miller. „. F. McCreight 
Notre Dame .-O 
o '3 Washington and Jefferson—.•. b o O O
o 

Substitutions—Notre Dame: Madigan for Ryd­zewski, Stine for Madigan. Washington and Jefferson: Stein for Garbisch,' Smith for Stein. Goal from place­ment—^Brandy. Missed goals from placement— Brandy, McCreight. Missed drop goal from field— McCreight. Officials: Referee—^Fred J. Crolius, Dartmouth. Umpire—Harry S. Hammond, Michigan. Linesman—^J. G. Diu-fee, Williams. Time of periods— Foiu: of 13 minutes each.—Pittsburgh Dispatch. 

TEE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
All-American Teams. 
BY PAUL PURMAN. 
Of the Cleveland Leader. 
B olen, Ohio State End Von Heimburg, Navy End Cobb, Syracuse — tackle Hauser, Minnesota —._. taclde Sies, U. of Pittsburgh... guard Culver, Michigan guard Rydzewski, Notre Dame center ' Strupper, Ga. Tech quarterback Oliphant, Army. •. halfback Harley, Ohio State halbfack Berry, TJ. of Pennsylvania:^ fullback 
Honorable mention as of ail-American calibre: 
Andrews, Gipp, Brandy. 
** * 
By HAZE CLARKE 
Of the Indiana Daily Times. 
FIRST TEAM POSITION SECOND TEAM Royse, DePauw.. L E.., Risley, Indiana Hathaway, Indiana L T. Hannicker, Wabash Julius, Indiana L G... Bake, Rose Poly. Rj^dzewski, Notre Dame...-C Pierce, Indiana Ingles, Indiana R G Bondurant, DePauw Berns, Purdue R T. Philbin, Notre Dame King, Notre Dame R E-_ Minton, Indiana Craven, Indiana Q—- ..Hume, Purdue Brandy, Notre Dame. D H Allen, Purdue Bahan, Notre Dame R H Huering, Indiana Huffine, Purdue F. .Keever, Indiana 
4*fr 


An All-American Finish. ^ ^ 
BY WALTBR CAMPUS. 
The football season is now over: it closed Sunday afternoon on the Minims' campus. There was a game whose object, "as lucidly explained by one of the rooters, was to deter­mine which of the two second teams was second. In other words, it was a contest to pick the next-best team to the best, or, in still other words, to establish the altogether second­ary importance of the third team. Accordingly, the game was one of prime importance. Alas for its complete chronicle in history, the present writer missed the-£rst half. He. came upon a scene of alread}'^ deiveloped conflict, the tides of battle' swaying now this way, now that, the spectators as definitely cleft as were the opposing factions on the field. There was no neutral anywhere, and the \vriter, who came in the dispositions of an innocent bystander, soon found himself a raging partisan. He picked the team that was at a disadvantage, a strong east wind in their face and the score against them, by one point, seven to six. The ill wind 
blew, and more calamity befell. After a brilliant stand "on. their own two-yard line, from which the}'' forced their opponents back and steadily back until the ball went over on downs, their punt, alas, wa's blocked, and the agile foe had fallen on the ball behind the goal, and the' score stood thirteen to six against my .team. 
What happened now was in its wa}'- Homeric, A quarter was up, but the teams—some inscru­table ground rule, perhaps—did not .change goals. Ten.minutes remained to play. In those ten minutes, with the odds all against them, still fighting into that twenty-mile gale and against the storm of derision • which blew from the victorious non-combatants, the weaker team stiffened, and plunged and plowed, gaining four yards here and six yards there, lining up with speed and snapping the ball with precision, with no trick pla5'^s but on straight football, twice in ten minutes they crossed their oppo^ nent's goal line, and the game Avas won. There were no long runs, mind you; there was only a series of short, steady, consistent gains, without the waste of a minute of time. It was a triumph of brains and determination over time and tide, that bitter December wind might reasonably have chilled older and stouter warriors. 
There were no long gains, I have said, but it soon became evident that whenever the ball went for six yards or more it was carried by the left halfback, a chunky Olympian who couldn't in all his life have seen more "than ten Decembers. Of course, there were other good players on both sides, but it was this battling halfback that led his battered team­mates-down .the field, making the second of his two touchdowns just as the whistle blew, the triumphant whistle that blew his team into" first place against all the winds that blew. 
Of the rejoicing that followed, not even Homer could fittingl}'" write, and it- occurred to us that if some of the bored and jaded reporters and special writers of sports who are drawing a comfortable salary by. describing the over­coats they themselves wear at an All-American clash, it occurred to us that even these hardened survivors of their own youthful enthusiasms might have known in the keen December, wind that swept the Minims' campus last Sunda}'­afternoon a tingling reminiscence of a time when some things mattered, when perhaps even football was real and worth while. 
Postcript: The name of the battling halfback is, by the way, Smith.^ 
Co 

NQTRE DAME HAS BEEN FOOMNG 'Etl THIS VEPiR WITK HARVARD AND YALE WRANGLED SO HELMETS MADi: To LOOK UKt 
Co MUCH IN AN OLD GAME THKT TMPY 

A roOT^ALL HAD TO FINISH IT OUT 8Y MOONUGHT 
l­
o 

WONT 
> ^ -..'" 

OVER THE CROSS-BAR . I T COUNTED A6 A GOAL AND WOM THE GAME FOR PRINCETON. 
tXETER WAS BEftT l5?J-0 av HARVARD 
^EVCRM HAVt 
DILLON - o^lhe CARHSLE INDIANS, 
MAOL BRILLIAMT RUMS ­5HPPED THE BALL UNDER •^^\E BftCK OF HIS JERSEY 
TO THE WRONG GOAL 
AMD RAN 105 YDS To A TOUCH DOWN - BEATING HARVARD 
FADS IN FOOTBALL. •—The Commercial Advertiser, New Yorli. 
J\ 



176 THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC 
Safety Valve. 

More care has been taken this year in selecting the all-hall teams than ever before, owing to the high price of soap and the absence of steam in Sorin Hall. We have tried to be absolutely unfair in the selecting of the players as some" of them were relatives of the selecting board. Let us say at the outset that Bernard Heffernan of Sorin. Avould have been our.first choice for fullback were it not "that he is ineligible, having played three years "on", ttie.-VALVE team. 'This year's team is not an informal one like the' Harvard and Yale elevens. It is very formal, and the games played by these players will be formal affairs. Evening clothes like pajamas and bath-robes, however, will not be used, because the games ^yjll, be plaj^ed in the afternoon. The new Prince Albert" style of football suit mil be the dress and the stove-pipe • style of head-gear. The plaj'-ers of this team will treat the ball as tenderly as though it were a baby. They may caress it or pat it or embrace it, but far be it from these perfect beings to 
fall on the ball. The player must take the ball gently place it under the right arm, raise his hat to the tackle or guard through whom the play is supposed to go, saying, "pardon me" and proceed. Should his oppo­nent be so ungracious as to impede his headway the man carrying the ball may shake his finger naughtilj'^ at his opponent exclaiming, "Gracious me!" 
Himebaugh, A  L E  .Walsh  
Cook, N  L T  ..  ,...AValsh'  
SA\'ift, Richard  L G  Sorin  
Berra, H  C  Brownson  
Butler, J  R G  Brownson,  
Newgass, M  R T.  ....Brownson  
Scates. W.  R E:...—  .St. Edward  
Durnin,  J  IQ,____-.  Coi-by  
Foohey, P  R Hl.'.l_i  ..".-'.:.,Corby  
Riley, E  '  LH.1:.;:  .._'_1.'-Walsh  
Garibaldi, D  .F„....JA.„.lA.^A.-^.^.:VCarroll  

We have placed Adelbert Himebaugh at^left-'end-on­account of his fleet footedness. VHe is',, a!> veritable butterfly who would sweep down the _field-bn. punts, and tackle spectators who happened^to'. be','minding their own business on the side lines. Our-one fear is that we would not have sufficient bread arid ijam to feed this wing-man. A sandwich or pop-corn'.\wagbn . would be liable to distract Himebaugh in the middle of a play and he would leave the field never to return. Adelbert (a pretty name indeed) has already won the title of "Champion Rester of America." He certainly can. rest. 
Nathan Cook has been placed at left tackle on account of his gall. This young pest would so annoy.opposing players that they would give'up ih> disgust.'j He is -a bright fresh boy with dark blue .eyes and a nose. His cute little face causes acute pain when one has s'een.hini work it for five minutes. :, .;-. T 
5 --.I.­

Richard Swift would make a guard,-e pluribus unum, sine qua non, sic semper.tyrannust'-He'^uses his feet and hands well and his head would be good f orstopping opposing players oir something. He knows Jittle about football, but he certaiiily loves his teachers, which. must be considered in these times of."war. Richard comes from Sorin Hall and will carry a fan in his right hand to distinguish him from Venus de quarter Mile. 
Berra our centre is a buster of a boy. He is bulging out of his clothes on all sides and in all directions. He is not very good at carrying classes, but could, we think, carry a football if it were tied to him. He is a A'ery refined sort of hippopotamus and is as gentle as a locomotive. He might sit down in the middle of the field and' refuse to play if he were tired but a little petting would bring him along. This is Berra's third and last year on- the team. 
'' J. Butler, better known as Mary, or Marie, or May, as you choose, is a'whale of a player. Aside from the fact that he's the laziest player on the team and hasn't got "pep" enough to breathe regularly, he is a bright, fresh,—yes, very fresh boy with a mouth like a bath tub and a couple of piano-legs th'at could not be broken with an axe. - Nothing would please the crowd better 
•"than to see Mary going down the field carrying the football like a shopping bag and throwing kisses to all the spectators. 
Mitchell Newgass, our right tackle would scare his opponent stiff. One look at his phiz would make the strongest player faint. He shaved last Labor Day and has been bragging about it ever since. He has the cutest little smile and his voice is like the gurgle of a rain pipe. Aside from being a good bunter and bean­bag artist, he can plaj"- dickerj^-dickery-dock. Mitchell, take the ball and proceed. 
From St. Edward Hall we have chosen Dicky Scates as end. He has been at the end of nearly everything ' in St. Edward for the last •.^''ear. He is a sure tackier as far as we can judge from watching him tackle his meat at dinner. 
Our quarterback is Mr. James Durnin. We- call him 
•mister because he is such a manlj-^ fellow. He knows as much about-;running a team as he does about running an jiirship' or-a hair shirt and that's going some. Mister ijiirniri refuses to call signals" because they remind: Kinl;':6I his math class in which he bats 40%. If h^M^;:ould"-stay around- the school long enough to :'.get aviquainted with the team he Avould be a marvel. ,' We^.nave Paul Foohey. of Corby placed'at halfback. He is .half .back? in\his classes and would find little 
. trouble ill doing' the same in football. His ability.to fake punt, or .'to'iake an5'^thing else has led to our ' 
'"choice. He has a viblet colored voicie and his honeyed words fall'like inortar on the heads of his admirers. Once given the^balr'he would in all probability look at the quarterback and say ".AVhy-'don't you send it by parcel post?" ;•;'•''•••. ^ 
E. Clark Riley an angel-face youth , with a head that looks like a sunburned pancake,' has been placed at halfback because when • the different rectors fired him out of their halls we had no other place left for him. He is such a sweet boy, with winning ways and kidney feet. He steps on his. neck when he runs, but other­wise he would be a darling halfback. 
And how .dear reader comes oiir fullback, Garabaldi of Carroll. His'speed has been the one factor that has stood by him.'- "It certainly has stood. We never saw speed stand so long in one place before. His knowledge of handling inonkey wrenches and pie plates is uncanny. Once^ started with the ball he' would be liable to go to Elkhart or Goshen. He will carry a sewing machine on his left'arm so as to be recognized by the spectators. 





Notre Dame Football, 1918. 
A thing is considered a success if the results are commensurate with the time and energy expended. This fall the Notre. Dame football team had-, but little time for practice, but' used up myriads of units of energy. What have the men of the team to show for this? First of all they have played a man's game well. In addition they have learned to think; they have forihed friendships which will last throughout their lives; and they have developed loyalty, a loyality to a mother University which can come only from fighting for her. To the foot­ball squad for their successful work of the' season the University gives homage. • 
COACH ROCKNE. 
After spending the summer at Fort Sheridan Coach iRockne returned for the opening practice in the middle of September. The prospect was only fair. Vohs, Powers, Bader, Hoar, Kennedy, Dooley, and Brandy, men-on whom he had been depending, were all commissioned at Fort Sheridan. The loss of these experienced players was a severe one, but the coach went ahead cheerfully to buUd a .team from almost en^ tirely new timber. Gipp, Bahan, Stine, and Smith were the old men back, and their work, was later the salvation of the team. The rescinding of- the freshman rule made every coUege student in the University eligible, and with this as an impetus the squad began:to grow by leaps and bounds. Before the inaugura­tion of the S. A. T. C. there were more than eighty men out in uniform. Most of' these were boys just out of high school. ­
Practicing twice a day untU the formation 
of the Army units, the squad improved rapidly. DaUy scrimmages began to bring out good men,­and left the team for the Case game at Cleve­land in good condition. •. Case was defeated 26 to 
6. This game showed the coach just where the defects in team play were and also who was who in the personnel. Gipp and Bahan were the stars in the backfield; but what was most pleasing to the coach was the stonewall defence of the line. "While the play, as a whole, was more or less crude, it was a team of.- possibilities. Their "come-back" in the second half showed that they had the make-up of a typical Notre Dame-eleven. -• 
With the mobilization of the. S. A. T. C. practice was gieatly restricted, but .the boys worked with a will and showed steady .im­provement. Then began that series of dis­appointments which for a while threatened- to overwhelm athletics in general. The Edu­cational Committee of the War Department for-, bade long trips and the dreaded influenza began to make its presence felt. The West Point and the Washington and-Jefferson games were cancelled and the Nebraska game moved 
• back to the 2nd of November. With . the scheduling of the great Pier game of. Chicago and Camp Custer things began .to readjust themselves. Oh Saturday, October 19, the Pier team made their appearance in South Bend, but there was no game. The influenza epidemic was at its height, and as the medical authorities thought it best to prohibit gatherings of any sort,' the game was cancelled. : The game with Camp Custer was • also • called off. Football practice itself was even prohibited. for a. few days. Some days later the situation was so much better that the epidemic ban was lifted.^ Work was begun for .the Nebraska game. Coach McNamara's freshmen scrimmaged, .the .Varsity daily using Nebraska formations.' The team was. worked up to a high state-of physical \ and mental perfection and even "the coach was optimistic. . As the boys were about to leave for Lincoln a-message was received stating that the ban was on in Nebraska:. Seeing that the team must have some game or they would lose heart. Coach 'Rockne- worked all day; and finally late that evening scheduled a-contest, with Wabash :at Crawfofdsville. . •:. • 
The lyittle Giants had an off day, and though they fought with all their traditional courage Notre Dame romped away with the game.--The final score was 66 to 7. Stine was injured rather 
 '^ e Houre 6ame ^hoiascie 
severety, and it was this injury which was to prove so costly to Notre Dame the following Satuxday. Miles, Miller, Dunn and Connor had left for training camps and as a result there was a shortage of linemen. The two under­studies to Stine, Owens arid Nadolny, were also injured, and it was this shortage in tackles which opened the way for the Great Lakes touchdown late in the game on Saturday, the nt h of November. The Great Lakes with a most formidable line-up, including Bachman, Jones, Keefe and Driscoll, seemed to be an easy winner on paper, but they were due for a surprise. Notre Dame outplayed them for three-quarters of the gaibe and only the greenness of the team prevented them from scoring again on the sailors a few minutes before the whistle blew. The score, 7 to 7, was a virtual 
victory for Notre Dame. 
On the following Saturday the Gold and Blue, out of her element in the mud, was defeated by the Michigan Aggies 13 to 7. The light Irish team found their speed neutralized on the heavy 
£ i;j J w-i. T. • T^ ui ^ 1- 1J 
neld and the heavier Farmers were able to hold them. Gipp and Bahan were both injured, and though the rest of the men played the Aggies to a standstill, the Michigan boys got the breaks and the game. Notre Dame made 16 first downs to the home team's 12. 

On a dry field a week later Notre Dame won the State Championship by wallopmg Purdue 26 to 6. Barry took Bahan's place at half and played a remarkable game. The heavy Purdue team was outplayed in every point of the game, and there was no questioning the superiority of the Irish. Purdue made three first downs by the aerial route and that was the extent of 
.their ground.gaining for the day. Gipp ran 
..then- ends at will and Lambeau toie then line to shreds. Notre Dame gained over 400 yards on straight football. The only lamentable in­cident of the game occurred within the last minutes of play when Mohn, the flashy N. D. quarterback, hurt a rib: WhUe the injury was not serious, yet it was enough to keep him out of the big game on Thanksgiving day. 
Bahan tried to take Mohn's place at Nebraska but lasted only a few minutes." Lockard then played until he was hurt late in the third period, Notre Dame played the whole last quarter without a quarterback, but came within a few yards of winning in tlie last few minutes of the game. Heavy mud again prevented thie Notre Dathe team from winning a game which cer­ tainly would have been hers on a dry field,  She made twelve first downs to the Corn­ huskers' none. As it was only the excellent  punting by Dobson that saved Nebraska again  and again. They were fortunate to hold Notre  Dame to a scoreless tie. 
 The Notre Dame team of this year was the  lightest in t'ae history of.the institution, but  they made up for this in fight, brains, and  determination. Despite^ almost insurmountable  obstacles they played their season and leave a splendid record behind them. Facult}'-, alumni  and students can well be proud of them. They  upheld every honorable tradition of an in­ stitution where they develop men. 

••—^^ — final The Men of the Team. 
 'Piie 1918 football season at Notre Dame is  jiistory, but before the page is turned some  ^j-ief comment on the men who made -the  team is in order: 
_ 
 KIR K AND ANDERSON. 

 Notre Dame teams have in general been  characterized by good ends, and the eleven  of 1918 has been no exception; In Anderson  and Kirk the Gold and Blue possessed two wing  guardians of the first water. If there were  any better in the West we have not seen them,  In Koing down under punts, catching passes,  and breaking up interference, briefly, in all  <^^at ends should do, these two men excelled, ^^^Y each have two more years of eligibility  ^^ college athletics, 
 BAHAN, ACTING CAPTAIN. 

. p^^^ gghan played his usual game, the kind  ^f football of which very few are capable, and ^ tj^ese few words all has been said. As a­ contender'for all-Western honors Pete should ^^ ^^^^^^^ ^^ recognized as among the best in  ^^^llege and service elevens. In the course of  ^he season Lieut. McReavy of the Great  j^^kes spoke of Bahan and his running mate,  (.jpp^ ^s "wonderful." A torn cartilage sus­ Gained in the Michigan Aggies game kept him  ^^^ ^f the Purdue and the Nebraska game, and  jj^^jj jQ^^h to do with the scoring of Rockne's 
 j^^ ^ jj ^ jg captain-elect for next season. 
 Cripp. 

 Notre Dame in the past few years has been  fortunate in possessing one or more stars of the first magnitude, and the 1918 team had no less 
a star than George Gipp. George never failed to gain when called upon. His prowess can be 
- .  *  ' -^ '"*  
» ­" -^SL  
^''  • J j tli^  '  1  

iffVShtSrJB^^ySa^^^^^B 
BAHAN, ACTING CAPTAIN. 

understood when one considers the fact that he went into every, game a "marked man"— which .fact availed opposing teams nothing in their attempts to stop him. Next to running the ball, his forward passing was a feature in' all the games. Because of his accuracy he dared to pass.in his own territory, setting a precedent which few care to follow. Gipp has two more years in which to continue his wonders. 
STINE. Up to the time when Coach Rockne learned that Roily Stine would be back he had lost not a few hours of sleep over his left tackle. But once certain that the "red-head" from Oregon was returning, his worries were ended. Roily was one of the elements in the wall that stopped every attack. An injured knee, which would have kept most men out of the game, only made this quiet lad from the far West grit his teeth and play the harder. A Notre Dame man and a fighter is "Roily, with one more year to play. 
H. ANDERSON. 

One H. Anderson was the boy who "crashed 'em" game after game. He was one of those immovables known as a good guard. Plays designed to gain groimd through Notre Dame's left center were smashed regularly by the lad from Michigan. He was equally good at moving an opponent out of the way to permit a Gold­and-Blue back to go through. Anderson also is good for two more years. 
LARSEN. 

Larsen, the center, came to Notre Dame as a tackle, but he soon became a wortiiy successor of Feeney, Fitzgerald and "Big Frank." Seldom did his snap backs go awry. A power on offense, he was a hard man to go through when on the defensive. Steadiness was his big asset: He never had much to say, but his work in every game spoke for itself. He has two more years. 
CROWLEY. It is fitting that the East and the West should have divided the tackle positions, and Crowley from Boston played his part with honor. A shifty man on defense, he was hard to put out of a play, and when called upon to dear the way for the backfield the men carrying the ball never failed to find an opening. In the two years he has yet to play imder Rockne, he should become one of the best tackles in the game. 
SMITH. 

There were those who doubted Rockne's wisdom in using "Smitty" at guard, but the first game of the season proved that the Coach was right, as he usually is. Notre Dame has had some wonderful guards in her history, but none better than "Pitch" Because of his ability to coyer ground, he was used on defense as a "floating center." In this position he was invaluable, so invaluable that in a certain game an opposing coach told his boys "to get 
hi;-'*'': J "=-^'•iAi^'~'fi£-f 
131 
GIPP, LEFT HALF. 

Smith," but the game ended with "Smitty" still knocking- them down. Several teams spent 

'^eNoure <!)ame Scholascic 
a very unpleasant hour on a Saturda}'' because of this stellar guard's ability to clip. He has two more years to play. 
MOHN. Another of the manj' boys from the South Bend "High" who have made good at Notre Dame is Willie Mohn. His lack of experience at the beginning of the 3''ear was made up hy his abilit}' in absorbing football principles, and the close of the season found him one of 
made the loss of Bahan less keenly felt. He is a Notre-Dame man with plent}'-of the "ole fight," and he will help Rockne for two more years. • \ 
IvAMBEAU. To fill the shoes of such men as Eichenlaub and John Miller-is no easy task, but in Lam-beau Coach Rockne made no mistake. A line-plunger of terrific power, he was also wonderful in off-tackle drives. He backed up the line 

, ' . THE TEAM OF 1918.­FRONT ROW: Lockard, quarterback; Barry, halfbsck; Mohn, quarterback. MIDDLE ROW: E. Anderson, right end; Smith, rightguardj Bahan, jight half; Kirk, left end; H; Anderson, left guard. BACK Row: Coach Rockne; Crowley, right tackle; Lambeau, fullback; Gipp, left half; Stine, left tackle; I.arsen, center. 
the most dependable quarter-backs in the West. His run of sevent^'^-three yards at Purdue was one of the features of the 1918 season. With his two more years, of .opportunity he should write his name large in^ football history. 
BARRY. ~ Soine day "Chris" Barry is not coming back to Notre Dame in September and then the old school will have .closed its career. From the Minim Specials in St_. Edward's Hall to the Varsily-is the career of this speedy little man from Chicago. As a defensive man Barry ranks with the best, arid his ability to gain ground 
unfailingl}'-and was one of the chief reasons why opponents failed to gain. With Rockne as a teacher, "Curly" has a bright future in his two remaining years of competition. 
IvOCKARD. Lockard weighs but 134 pounds, but he made up for this deficiency in weight by craftiness arid quick thinking. He always out-guessed the opposing team, and his own teain always felt confident that he would choose the right play. Although handicapped^ by an injured knee, "Abie" played through most of the season. With one more year to play, he should prove a 

valuable asset to the team no matter how good they may prove to be. 
THE SQUAD. Upon every football squad there are several players known as the second string. The men who this year, played that role at Notre Dame wotild have gladdened the heart of an)'- coach. Donovan andShanahan were a set of ends who could hold their own in any company, and in tlieir remaining, two years will undoubtedly win berths for themselves. Owens, better known as the "Sergeant," failed to make his monogram because of ah injured ankle. "Dog" White, the • understudy for • center, always ' delivered when, called upon. The lad from Tennessee will undoubledly be a regular before his two remaining •)^ears of competition are finished. "Peaches Nadolny from de Nort" was a tackle.of no small ability. Cahill and Saunders as guards will, with a little more experience, be top-notchers. Lombardo, Mohardt, Wynn 
• and Phillips in the backfield relieved the coach of any worries he might have had when the regulars were injured or taken out. Dorgan, Grabner, Devine and Prokop. were men who with a little more work will be among the best. Taken as a whole, the second string would bring honor to an}'' school. Their share in the team's success, which is after all the whole aim of, any right-minded football squad, may not have been duly observed by spectators, but the coach and those who can appreciate their-work can be glad that they had such a select set from which to draw in the pinches. 
COACH ?.OCKNE In every football season there is one man who, amidst a number of luminaries, will stand out most prominently. Such a one this y^ear in Western football was our own Coach *9.ockne. Never in the history of football at Notre Dame has a coach opened his. season under such dis­couraging difficulties as "I'iock" encountered in. this first j^ear of his as athletic director of the Gold and Blue. Men upon whom he had planned to build his team failed to return, and when the time came to issue the football tegs he had but three veterans on the stafi'. Unabashed by the prospects, however, he set to work and evolved from his scant material a' team' that compares favorably'- with any of the great "Irish" elevens. He instilled into, the men as if by magic that spirit of fight for which he himself is famous. From Case to 
Nebraska the men, .fiUed with, the do-or-dfe spirit-'of .their ,coach, battled; against'heayier teams to victor}'-. Only once-did "Rocfe" machine suffer defeat,—at the hands of *:the Michigan Aggies,- upon a field -where the men from Notre Dame could not do justice to"them­selves. Even in the mud, where "the hea-vy Aggie team was in its elemieht, the opponents could not gain through .the Notre Dame line.. Such is the spirit jR.ockne puts into his men. 
Notre Dam.e is peculiarlyr-fortimate in having such a. man to conduct her athletics. -.Under him victories will come, and' the very occasional defeats will be mitigated by the knowledge that "Rock's" men have never been outfought. Coach /Jlockne" is a true Notre Dame man to whom the teams can always look for inspiration. If there is any praise due 'the Notre'Dame foot­ball team of 1918, it must go first of "^all to Coach Rockne. ," '"' " ." 
Thoughts. 

Success is born of sacrifice. . ... . ... ., A labor of love is never tiresome. " ,-v . :• A faiUng need not result in failure!. "; • • . Only the low-bred live the "high life."' ­Experience is often a high-salaried tutor. A half-hearted begianing is ah omen of-a tloor 
fraish.. • . .^. , . ,, . Money talks in foreign language to ..many people. - . . ' , ; . _ 
•Be a vbluntar}' student and not an inteUect­'Ual slacken - •-. -••-..'. -Maiiy students should be arrested for intellect­
ual vagrancy. Although the truth hurts, not everything that 
•hurts is truth. ' ... . 
"Do as I say, but not as I do," is very poor advice from a minister. 'Love is^an ocean in which there are both gold fish and deep-sea dragons. . It is in the. very course o£ nature that we have a few thorns among our flowers.-. Only those who have borne the burdens of-vvar can duly appreciate the blessing of peace. . The darkest hour of the. night is when the hus­band comes home and. can't find the key-hole. Many people-distract attention from their faults by talking about those of their neighbor. 
^—^T.-j.HANiFm. 



... . ·~-. ..... . ~ 
. .. . ---.:·. --.. ..
_ 
---.-'
.. 
·-•_·. · ; __ . ... ·-{()ebicatton • · 
. ~ -~ 
.. 
:· -_:.~ ·~Ti> NO~RE :P~E'S HEROES of t~fi GRIDIRON .· . .· ~~the. PAST, PRESENT AND· FUTURE.® , ~ .. :-_. ·:·-:. ~·· .· · .THISMODEST."REVIEW"iSRES-.: -.·, :: ·.. · ' /. ·. -~ .-··. :' PECTFULLY DEDICATED. . ,.. 
"" '·: . . -. 
. ·~ . -. 
.. 
. . 

~= .-· . --·-.._ 
•. • --~ •• ': r ._
--: 
-. 
. ·-. 

·': ---:• ·-.
·. 
:'_ .-:.. . . .. 

-,.. ..· ..... --• :.· ., ~· -· _... :~... ... • t :. ··"-·.. ·-. 
'! . :-·----. ~ . -.•-. ... . 


Sweet Ancient 'Home_ihatru Fondly Shel­tePed Me 
.. 
'./". 
\ 


".1887-Captain Cusick, and His First Squad of Fi~htin~ Irish" 
··-:.. 

-. 
Notre Dame Record 
' 1919 
K. K. ROCKNE, . Coach· CHARLES DORAIS, Asst. Coach 
LEONARD BAHAN, Captain· 
N.D. Opp. 

Kalamazoo 0 at Notre Dame 14 
.i\lt. Union 7 at Notre Dame 60 
Nebraska 9 at Lincoln 14 \\'estern Normal 0 at Notre Dame 53 Indiana 3 · at Indianapolis 16 Army 9 at '\Vest Point 12 Michigan Aggies 0 at Notre Dame 13
'· 1 
Purdue· 13 · at Lafayette 33 l\Iorningside 6 at Sioux City 14 
Total Score 229 47 
LIGHT OCCUP A­TIONS 
Getting meals changed from refectory to the cafeteria. 
TVaitzng for a. room on the . campus (For da,lj­dodge.r~ only). . 
Taclcling the. dumm,y. 


VICTORY SON_G 
Ch~er, Cl~ee~. for old Notre Dame, 
"'al<e up the echoes cheering her n:~.me, 
Send ·a .valle~· cheer on high, 
Shake dO\\·n the thunder froin the oky, 
'Vhat tho· the odds l.le great m· small? 
Old Notre Dame will win over all, 
\\'hlle her loyal sons are marching Onwa_nl to victory. ' · 

"ALL-AMERICAN CHAMPS" indicated that the _game would be· very close. ~t ·the· finish of the first period the .score was 
.THIS.indeed is afit title for Coac:h Rockne's tied at J all. The remainder of the· ·game was·
· ~qu~d of "Fighting Irish." They have just very much different from the first ·quarter. The
finished a very successful season, having 
result was 60 .to 7.

met with 'no defeats and captured the hon:lrs in nine co_nsec~tive ·contests.·· Some may doubt 
-NEBRASKA as to whether or not they deserve to be called 
The following Saturday found the Gold and "All-Amei:ican Champs." Surely their victory Blue at Lincoln, Nebraska, where they .had ove_r the strong Army teani ·places them above jour~eyed for the sole purpose of defeating· the 
any of ·the much-heard:o( Eastern elevens. 
University of Nebraska eleven. This end was accomplished by a score of 14 to 9. This wasKALA.i\IAZOO 
the biggest event of the season for ~the "Corn-. "Cn(lt. Uti.luin."On October 4th our me·n met Kalamazoo Col­
(Continued on page 4.)
lege on Cartier Field. Our line was· not yet in 
perfect· shape, and Kalamazoo furnished rather NON­"HE'S A :\lAN,". You led that Fighting .Irish .crew,
unexpected opposition. However, as the game ESSENTIAL 
"Pete Bahan, progressed, several sensational plays in 'vhich CITIZENS The.ir trust \\;as not misplaced In you, Pete Bahan.
Bahan, l\Ialone and Gipp starred, resulted in 
No. •.H3~ Con­For three years now. you've carried on; two touchdowns. Bergman figured in a fifty­Your genius many games has won;
ductors· on H i ll 
"'e ·honor you for what you've don~.
yard run through the entire line. The final 
Street cars.· Pete Bahan. · · score was 14 to 0. .Admiring-scribes will write al.lout · If a man must be . Pete Bahan. "'hen deeds are tongues, ~·ou'll ·hear titem shout
1\IOUNT UNION 
a liar let him at 
. "Pete Bahan!" l\lount Union Colleg~ arrived at Cartier Field least cult.ivate a Since Rock's hlp-hipping you began You've played as only d:J.ring ·can.
on October 11th.. This con~est we mus.t confess, good me11W1',lJ.· 
:By all that's noble, ~;ou're ··a man, . was more .or less farci~al. . Fi~·st appearan?es Joe Tierney · , Pete Bahan. -T. T. 
Three 

huskers". and ·they put up a good fight. Berg­man and Gipp were ·too much for. the farmers, and aided by Bahan's headwoJ:"k, the "Fighting Irish" registei;ed another victory-the first one of the season on a foreign field.· 
\VESTERN STATE NORMAL 
The next visitors at Cartier Field were the eleven of the '\Vestern State Normal. This game was more or less farcical also. They came upon the field with a rather victorious spirit, having<"~·ecently defeated ·M. A. C. andI Wabash., Appearances ,\rere that they intended to appropriate another victory-until the gar.1e 
I began.. Then appearances changed. Rockne's men· gained "ad libitum." The curtain fell at 53-to o:~. :'
I 
INDIANA 

. \Vashi_iigton Park in Indianapolis was the ~ceiiec of: the. next. battle. Notre Dame was ~cc~mp~mied by six hund~ed rooters, who had ·secured a special train for the occasion. The 
·air wa~· lad_eii with N.-ri. spirit. The game was P_laye'd in the rain and on a field of mud. Rockne saved most of'the stars· for.. the Army game, so that in the-hitter part, Indiana..·was struggling with a bunch of substitute's. "Hunk" Anderson, Gipp, and ..Slackford sho,ved great skill in man­ouvering in. the n1ud. The final count was 16 to 3. 
ARMY 

On the:following. Saturday the Gold and Blue met her ancient enemy on the Cadet's field at West Point. Bergma~ did not accompany the team. He injured his knee in the Indiana game. In the first half of the· game things looked 
pretty bad for otir ·squad: However, t~e old · fighting spirit carried tliem through, and once more the flag of Notre Dame was raised in vic­
tory over the officers by a· score of 12 to 9. 
MICHIGAN AGGIES 
On the 15th of November Cartier Field was honored .by the ·presence of the Michigan . Ag­gies. They were accompanied by two hundred rooters and a fifty-piece band. .They entered the camp of the "Rocl{men" with a strong de­termination to cari·y home the bacon. The Ag­gies had a far heavier team but the fast work of Bahan, Slackford, Gipp and Kirk was too much for the farmers. The contest was brought to a close 13 to 0 by a 'sensational pass, Gipp to Kirk. 
PURDUE 
The eighth consecutive victory was registered at ·Lafayette, whe~e the N. D. squad had travelled to meet Purdue. The team was slight­ly over-confident at the beginning of the· game, having defeated the Army so gallantly, and the "Boilermakers" scored a touchdown in the first quarter. The "Irish" soon_ found themselves, however; and Bergman· and Kirk fixed things up in the second period. In the last half, sue-.. cessive passes in which Gipp, "Hunk" Ander-· son,' Trafton and Kirk figured, resulted in. a final count of 33 to 13.. 
l\IORNINGSIDE 
On Thanksgiving day the Blue and· Golei 
journeyed to Sfoux City· to meet' 1\r'orniilgside. 
The game was played arriid snow flakes and the 
·temperature registered· ten· above. A fmhbi'e 
Four· 

I 
I 
at the beginning of the game.·gave l\Iorningside I 
I 
· their only marker. Brandy broke through for 
i 
a touchdown and "Geor·ge" followed ·his · ex­ample. The scoring ended at 14 to 7. . I This finished the victorious season ·of the Gold and Blue. Indeed they are highly·deserv­
I 
ing of the title-"ALL-Al\IERICAI':l''·CHAlVIPS." 
~ 
\Vho was it said the little.Irish Brandy woulcl no.t get into the game beca~se of his injuries?· However, he was i.n ··there Saturday with a pafch over one e'ye di~kc'ting· the plays of his ~ 
!I
team * ~~ * * Indiana's football team went down to defeat Saturday -a·t. th.'e: 'lla~ds of the magni­ficent Notre Dame combination, by a ··16 to. 3. count. Despite the handicap of pl~ying cin a field which was in most places three inches deep in mud and. water, the flashy-lri_sh: back­
~
field was abie to make long and consist~nt gains· by fcir,~ard passes· and end ru11-s,. anci:'.the op­~ l posing line balled·. the ·crimson. 'offen'se at-al.: most every stage of the c~ntest. In~iami was. not outfought, but was outclassed. * * * *'The work of Gipp ·and Bergman featured the con­test throughout for ·Notre Dame. Indeed;,the Irish backfield· is one of the speediest' ana most brilliant ever seen on -·a Hoosier gridiron. 
· * . * * * Notre. Dame practically cinched the state title for 1919 by its victory over Indiana, for there is little doubt but that Purdue 'vill also fall before the versatile Catholic offensive.· Notre Dame is now being heralded ·as one ·of tlie greatest grid combinations in· the· country, and is· being touted to defeat' West Point 11-·ext Sattirday.:.....,..(From the Indiana Daily Sh1de'nt~ N6vembe1~ 4.) · 


I ~ 
j. ( 
,• 
~ : ; 
Jusfas Captain Rockne and ex-Captain Dorais; tlH~-~f:leerless football combination of the 1913·
' .. _.·, ·. 
eleven; .w'ith..their novel and perfect forward passirig, .~linble field running, and good general-

Coach Uoclme 

s.hip, ·led Notre Dame to victory over the $.trongest teams iii the East, West and South­west, so that same combination has developed this· year a team which has impressed itself e_ven .upon the ·advers·e critics as one of the strongest· in colle.giate competition. The phe­nomenal success of the undefeated eleven of 1919 is for the most part to be attributed to the \vork of Coach Rockne and Assistant Coach Dorais. 
With· Rockne· concentrating· his efforts ·Upon the development of· the line and with Dorais as the .silent' general of the backfield, the singular achievement of the team was inevi­table. The Coaches received throughout the season the fullest confidence and heartiest co­operation of the candidates. They noted care­fully the particular ability of each playei· and made their choice. for positions accordingly. No department of the game was neglected, no weak spot escaped attention, no play lacked perfection. 
Rockne has just ·completed his .second year as mentor of the Notre Dame eleven. His long football experience and his three years of work .as assistant with Coach Jesse Harper left noth­ing lacking in the way of qualification~ He faced a difficult schedule 'yith a determination to de­velop a winning team. The nine unbroken vic­tories of the season show how he succeeded. 
The IIotel Severin rect;ntly reported sev­er_al towels missing. (Trafton, bewafe.) 
HONK-:-HONK-HUNK!!! 

Personals'-Abrams. Keep your eye on the gasoline tanl~. 
TT1here is the man who wanted the old­fashioned ·winter? ll1oral-Always ·7zole the size of the pipe before you release your tobacco. 
·Five 

He injected into the men that indefinable N. D. spirit. which resulted· in every contest in a mad fight for victory. And not only on~ the· gridiron did Rockne develop that efficient spirt, but also in the student body. He quickly succeeded in restoring that traditional, unanimous ent~usi­asm ,\rhich was so sadly lacking at the be­ginning of the year. 
"Gus" Dorais, who piloted the. Notre .Dame elevens in 1910, '11, '12, and '13 gave this year as assistant to Rockne, just the co~opera­tion needed to achieve such amazing success. The backfield was gradually perfected by him until to­wards t;p.e end of the year its efficient teamwork was the outstanding feature in . every victory. The indom­itable will, tireless efforts, and brainy direction of the coaches developed a ~achine which conquered teams on which every in­dividual player receiv.ed the attention of t";o per­sonal coaches. The cher­ished memories of their work will remain indelibly fixed in the minds and hearts of the members of· the squad and of the stu­dent body.-P. R. Conag-· han. Asst. Coach Dorais 


f 



"An· ·old Timer" 
Ueiullng· left to right-toil row:' nooley, Shnw, ·Crowley, 1\:ns)Jer, ·Cudahy, Iilley, Coughlin,' 1-'rnfton, 
. l\Ichre, Yohs, 'Yynn, \l'alsh. l\Iiddlc row: H. Anderson, Slacldord, 1\:lrlc; -Bergman, ::lllller, Balian (Capt.); Brandy, IInyes, Barry, E. Anderson, l'earson,. O'Hnrn. Bottom row: Ilolton, Sexton, Donovan; Connors, Arnbrose, Sanders, Payne, Prolwp, ::liohardt, l'helnn: . (GiiJJl, · Smith, Degree, ::lialone, and )Iatligan, 
. five of the most prominent stars of the team, are unfortunately absent from the picture.) 
._The Notre Dame eleven vanquished the West Point team here today by the score of 12 to 9. It was a case of open style of football triumph­ing.·over the old, line-smashing game. Notre Dame's ·forward pass taGtics proved too much for the Soldiers and turned victory into defeat. Vaiill): .did the Army men shift their defensive formations in an attempt to stop the long passes which the '\Vesterners· repeatedly com­pleted, carrying. the ball down the field for g;1ins . of many yards. ·These took the heart out of the. Army followers and brought the "Notre Dame cohorts to their feet in delight. * * * * Degree, the Notre Dame kicker, .out~ 
' 
.I've ofte·n asked the question, '\Vhat is the reason why The old U. N. ·D. spirit, It seems· does never die? I've come to the conclusion, As does. every loyal fan, That the pride of "Alma l\Iater" Is the mighty football man.. 
APPEAL!!! 
Lost-A bunch of bananas. 
Lost-A mule in the Oliver IIotel. Return to Brother IIugh. 
-Six 

punted McQuarrie time after time during the second quarter, but later in the game, with the wind at his back, the Army halfback . be­gan getting his kicl{s off in better shape, and the advantage which the Western team .liad gained was lost * * * * During.the· rest of the ·.third quarter they punted out o.f danger when­ever their goal was threaten~d~-·and .the long spirals f1:om Degree's b"ooT·~-lrept ·.the ·Army well in the center· of tp.e· · fieid. ·The· Noti;e Dame ends got do\vn u~ile1;: each kick in· short time · and repeatedly-•Y..bailed ·the Army backs .with almost no gai·n..;-,-'(FI;om the "New York 
Sun, Nov. 9.) ~-·· 


CAPTAIN BAHAN 
The· peer of· athletes. Leonard Bahan, Captain of the 1919 team is a brilliant player, not only in football,. but. in baseball and basket­ball as wen: He has won. a· monogram. in each of the above named. Besides be­ing a marvelous' athlete, "Pete" is a real· student. 

cn1,tlitn I•ctc His quickness of thought 
and mental, poise make him an ideal quarterback and an efficient captain. 
MADIGAN 

For three .years l\Iadigan has put the "Fight­ing Irish"· spirit into the games. Although he· was. outweighed in most of the games. of the past season, his good headwork in the· crucial moments of the game won out for him.. He is a scrappy player and a valuable asset to the Gold .and .Blue. 
Sez. Gov. TValsh: Notre Dame lS a nice place to 'lointe1-. 
A stitch' in time gathers no moss. 
A w1se man's policy-always refuse Brownson ,Ifa_ll cigars. · 
For the·· 'lvhereabouts of Father lliarr, con­sult his bulletin. 
Dri111~ IIoosier Cre_ani-the cream of soft drinl~s. 
The four finest ends in the state this year were undoubtedly the· Notre· Dame and· .,Va-· bash .pairs. Kirk· is undoubtedly the best for­ward: pass Teceiving end in .the country. * * .* * Halfbacks are· galore, plunging bacll:s; backs that wiggled and backs that just niade touch­downs, but out' of the lot emerge two wonders, the great Notre Dame pair, Gipp and Bergman.' No man in the country throws a better· pass than Gipp, and he is no slouch of ·a· ground gainer. eithei~· Bergman is another Harley. Nuff said.-(From the Indianapolis News, Mon· day, Nov. 24.) · 
BERGMAN' 

Vve regret· to say that he ,has, played· his last game .for: Notre. Dame. "Dutch" · has had a not­able career. in the .annals of U. N. ·D.. football. He. is. the. second· of: his. fam­ily, having succeeded· "Big. Dutch'! his famous: brother.. His.. open-field running,·. sprint·. s:t a r.t s, off-tackle· gains have merited for him the title of the "Flying Dutchman." 
SLACKFORD 


On his return to Notre J>utch llcrgman. Dame this year, "Fritz" . was filled with "pep" and. determination to do something on the. football field. His ability to get through and his endurance have won for him wide recognition. 
Seven 

PRESS COMMENTS ON NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 
Followers of the gridiron sport in the Ne­braska camp need offer no apologies for the Cornhuskers, who bowed in .defeat to one of the. cleverest forward-passing teanis in college football; eastor west.-(From the Lincoln State 'Journal, for Sunday, Oct. 19th.): '.' 
The~ squad that Coach Rockne, former All­American end, is bringing East with him Is every bit as husll:Y as their Army rivals.. Berg­man, at right halfback, is the star of the aggre­gation. Against Nebraska a couple of weeks ago he ·received the ball on a: double pass on his own ten-yard line and ran· through the en­tire Nebraska team for a touchdown. In all of Notre Dame's other contests Bergman· has been the big factor in their scoring. Bahan at quarter is a good field general.and a capable· thrower of the forward pass. It is at' this sort of game that the 'Vesterners excel. A majority. of their points to date have been tallied via the· overhead route. 
The rush line which Notre Dame will pre­sent is not as heavy as the one that Coach Daly will muster. Coughlin at left tackle is the only forward who tips the beam at more than two hundred pounds. :\Iadigan and Smith, center and right guards, weigh less than 160 pounds each. H. Anderson, at the other guard, and Degree,. at right tackle are the next heaviest. The former weighs 174 pounds while Deg'ree is credited with a \veight of 182. Kirk and E. Anderson, at the ends, weigh 163' pounds each. However,. they are a fast, ha1;d-playing pair. .Both are good r~ceivers of. the forward pass. Notre Dame has compiled a record of 157 points to their opponents' 19. Victories over Kalamazoo, 1\U. Union, 'Vestern Normal,' Nebraska and Indiana are credited to them. They are a formidable aggregation.-(By Tom Thorp; in the New York Evening Journal, No­vember 7.) 

Another veteran who must leave Notre Dari1e !. "C)'" put in three years of zealous ser­vice.' '·~e made good from the very beginning, winning a monogram in 1916. For the past two seasons he has been bothered with an in­jured knee which troubled him at· intervals, so that he was forced to retire from the game from time to time. This year he overcame the effects of his former injury, and took an active part in every possible play. 
An exchange prints this lineup, all founded on factsj Church, Harvard·;. Pope, Indiana; Bliss, ~tevens; Christian,, Williams; Kirk, Notre Dame; Pope, Hamilton; Abbott,. Syra­cuse; Pryor, Tufts; Pugh,. Swarthmore; Church­man, Virginia; ·Toogood, Haverford.:_Chicago American. 
PEARSON 
One of Rock's big ones . who will leave us this year. He has been do­ing big work for the ·.last t w o . seasons and especially in the big W. and J. battle of· 1917 did he demonstrate his . ability. He did fine ·work in the .l\I. A. C. game this year 

also. Pearson 
Brownson 11all-Gimme~ have you got~ let me. tal•e! 
Sunday night supper: Pass the 'lCJeenies mul·zn·ezwre for the roitrst. 
Brother wishes to see nlessrs :. 
Eig-ht 

Notre Dame, always a fast, aggressive eleven, beat the Army today, 12 to 9, in one of the most interesting and hardest-fought games ever staged on the Plains. The 'Vesterners fia.shed their usual repertoire of air-line plays; and when other methods of attaclr failed them they made these overhead tosses work to excellent advantage. * *. * *. Bahan and· Gipp, two power­ful backfield men, figured prominently ·in all the visitors' forward pass plays." Both· ·these huskies tossed with unen~ing acc:uracy, and Bahan was on the receiving end niost of the time. Occasionally E. Anderson got clear, and a long toss found him under the ball· with out­stretched arms. * * * * The \Vesterners prob­ably launched fifteen or twenty of these overhead plays and all except four o r five were successful. Long and short passes, wee ones, just over the 1i n e o f scrimmage, 
were frequently r e­sorted to.-(From the New York Times, Nov. 8.) 
MALONE 
In spite of an in­jured knee, Grover did brilliant worlr in the back field in several of the games this past season. He is feared tiy all opposite elevens because of his short and massive build, and ability to "hit the lirie."··.. He leaves this 

year. )lnlnnc 


I'·· • 
~ :' ... 
Gipp 
DEGREE 
GJPP 
He needs no i n t r o d u c t io n. George is surely deserving of his choice for the All -\V e s t e r n Iteam. His bril­liant work on the g r i d i ron, characterized by marvelous passes and drop­kiclrs merits for him the title of one of the best halfbacks e v e r developed in the \Vest. He will be with the Gold =md Blue for one more season. 
MOHARDT 
We look for great things from ·Johnnie in the next two ·sea­sons. His ability in tackling, his · speed, 
.and ·his experience will doubtless· prove to be big factors in our fu_ture teams. 
SMITH 
"Morrie" has been showing exceptional quality for the past three years. His fight­
.--:··iug · spirit is a great ai'd to the team. ·His record at Notre Dame is1 one of the finest. He will 1 e a v e th:ts 
year. 

t 
On Sunday night, December 14th, the Varsity team ·.was given a banquet by Coaches Roclme and· Dorias. . Also, for the first time in the history of the school, were the members of the Freshmen team present. George Gipp was elected Captain of the 1920 squad. Captain Bahan, :Qegree; Madigan, Smith, Barry, Miller, 
:l\Ialone, Bergman and Slackford, who are ·leav­
I 
ing in June, gave well directed talks to their
I successors: The following is the tentative schedule for .1920: Harvard, :Michigan Aggies, Purdue, West· Point, Nebraska, Indiana and
I Northwestern. A harmonious spirit prevailed at the banquet, which ..was greatly inspired by the music of Charlie Davis' Jazz Wizards and the Varsity Quartette. 

-· 
The Army lost to Notre Dame, 9 to 12, today in a close and hard-fought game. The West­erners, except for the opening period, played better than . the soldiers. Notre Dame's air line attack.ultimately proved -to be the Arn1y's undoing. Coming .from.·behind with the score 9 to 0 In the Army.'s favor, the visitors launched overhead pl~ys 'fo1· long and short tosses, 'vhich upset the -CU;dets ·in the. second· period·.'. * * * * Gipp, Brandy, E. Anderson, and Bahan fea­tured in Notre Dame's game.-(From the Buf­falo Express, Nov..9.) 
H. ANDERSON 
"Hunk" will aiso be 
in the ll.ne-up. for two more· years~ He is a real battler and a brainy player. H~ ' has ·been: delivering the goods an· the past. season. · H e played sensatioiuil ball at Nebraska, ·west 

Point and Purdue. ·. Hunl' Anderson 
LATEST REPORTS P.ROl\I THE FRONT Trafton wins blue ribbon for drinldng eight glasses of mill~ i1i succession at K. of C. banquet. 
J.liohardt wins fur-lined bathtub for. cham­pion shimmy ldng. · ; 
lnfirmar.lJ....:..._Salts and calomel. 
.• Nine 

"Butch" Scanlon, Purdue Coach, say!:!, "Bergman is a second Harley, but has been having tl'ouble with an 'injury to his knee and the standing at the end of the game depends on how long Bergman will last." * * * * Be­cause of this' reocrd·. our team' e~p-ects to be given the hardest battle of the. year and are especially anxious fo1~ a vi~tC?rY ov~r the fig~t~ ing Irish· as such an accomplishment would ,,dn us· national recognition. * * * ·. * In Gipp ahd Bergman the. Catholics ha"\·e t'vo of the b~st halfbacks in America~ Bergma~ is.J{nown for his fleetness and ability to ·get =a:way i~ the open 'field and can be counted on 'togive··the opponents much worry. dipp·· ·will :be' re'me~­bered as the powerful half who last year ma'de consistent and long gains against Purdue whkn 
the elevens met on Stuart Field. · This man lis also one of the best forward passers in the game.-(From the Purdue Exponent, Saturday, Nov. 22.) 
HAYES 

Back from the front and· full of "pep"! Two seasons. ago Dave made his name on' the "grid" and he has lived up to it this year. 
HEALTH HINTS No. 3986950. Don't give a. bald-headed man a comb for Xmas. . 

Tr'here, oh-where are Jim ·Keegan's white pants? 
Did you leave m~ything on this car? 
BARRY Our own "Nam", the fighting lightweight. He has starred as a football man since he came here many years ago. He is noted for his -ability to break through lines, sha!ke off tackles, etc. He is _among t h o s e w h o leave in June. 
TRAFTON During the season just past George's suc­cess h as increased with each game. His work has been bril­liant both on the de­fensive and offensive. He will be with us two more years. 

ECKERSALL'S ALL-WESTERN TEAMS 
First .Team-~Ieyers, (\Visconsin) L. E.; Hig­gins, (Chicago)_ L. T.; Baker, (Ames) L. G.; Depler, (Illinois) C.; Applegt;an, (Illinois) R. G.; .Slater, (Iowa) R. T.; Belding, (Iowa) R. E.; Stin.chcomb, (Ohio) Q. B.; Harley, (Ohio) (Capt.) R. H.; Gipp, (Notre Dame) L. H. B.; Lohman, (Iowa) ·F. B. · 
Seco.nd :ream-Weston, (\\r~sconsin) L. E.; lngwer~~n, (Illinois)-L. T.; :McCaw, (Indiana) 
L. a;;: Carpenter (Wisconsin) C.; Smith (Notre Dame) J1. G.; -~oet~, (Michigan) R. T.; Carney,_ (Illinois) ~R:-Ei; ·Robert (Fletcher) Q. B.;· B. Oss, (Minnesota) R. H.; Wahlquist (Illinois) 
L. H..B.; Hammes, (l\I. A. C.) F. B. 

Yes, we have got to "hand it" to Notre Dame. Those were some forward passes yes­terday.* * =~ * After holding Notre Dame score­less while they put across a touchdown and kicked goal in the first period,· the Boilermak­ers finally went down under the wonderful passing offensive of the Irish and were defeated 33-13 on Stuart field yesterday afternoon in a game which gave Notre Dame the state cham­pionship. The Catholics were helpless to score around the Purdue ends or through .the old Gold and Black forward wall, but their passing game, which swept the Purdue team off its feet at times, was one of the most perfect that has been witnessed ·on the Purdue field in several years. The combinations, Bergman to 
BRANDY 
\Vho specializes in Army teams or the like! He won his fame by stopping the mighty Oliphant in the Army game of a few years ago. This yea.r at \Vest Point he showed the same fight and again aided in defeating the Cadets; 

nrnndy ~ 
uCy', Sanders'_ sweetheart sent for his measurements around his neclc, from shoulder to shoulder, height, etc. She probably ··wants to buy him an umbrella or pipe for Christmas. 
Ten 

Kirk and Gipp to Kirk, were -those that rarely failed, and all the points scored by the Notre Dame team were a direct result of their work. -(From The Purdue Exponent, for .Sunday, Nov.. 23.) 
Notr·e Dame, once more exhibiting an·. excel­lence with the forward pass, which attacli: .has more than once carried them to victor:y :over the ·Army, beat the \Vest Pointers today;_ 12 to 9, in an interesting and hard-fought game. The Hoosiers, except for the initial . period, outplayed the Cadets. ~~ * * * The \Vesterners flashed a pair of excellent whig . _men :in E. Anderson aud .Kirk. Degree's _puriting "~as also of high grade.-(From the -New ·Yo1:k Herald, Nov. 8.) 
MILLER 
\Valter l\'Iiller ·has been a mainstay of the 
eleven for the past three years. His speed · on the gridiron a n d ability to get through the lines, as well as his high­soaring punts, will never be forgotten b-y _the Gold and 


Blue fans. "'alter :\IIIlcr 
. . COUGHLIN KILEY. The ·"Fighting Irish" have participated in 211 contests, winning 159, losing 36, and ty~

The big boy! He :when Kiley found that the "Aerial .Twins," 
: in·g·16; · 
achieved his first suc­Kirk and E. Anderson, were competing with ·Tlfe ·-ract that Notre Dame has amassed a to-.
him for the position of end, he did not ·Jose
'cess two y'ears. ago, and · ·tal· of 5492 points against 1040 by her oppon­

hope of becoming a regular but only. fought
has proved a valuable ents forms a fine commentary on the chronic.
the harder, and as a :result he emerges from 
strength of her "pigskin jugglers."
line-man sin c e that the season a. monogram man. . "Rog" did·· his This year's aggregation is 'the tenth Notretime. He weighs over share of retrieving forward passes .and also Dame ,teani to· go through a foo.tball .·season
became known and feared as one of the hardest
two hundred pounds and without·a defeat.

and surest tacklers •on the ·team. Few gains
can stand. considerable In 19.05: we administered our most-c1~ushing:
were made around his ·flank ·and ·fewer still 
punishment. · He eX· defeat on record by trouncing the· Amerfcari
are the men who managed to shake him -off 
l\Iedical College by a total of 140 points, and,
emplifies a combination once he had them. "rith Kiley back for next holding them scoreless. · 
year, and the year after, the important posi­
of brain and brawn. 

In 1904 Wisconsin· gave us the worst drub-·tion of end ceases . to be a ·problem for the coaches. 
bing in our gridiron ·history, when· we bowed' 
E. ANDERSON befoi·e·lH~r to.the ttine of 58.:0.------·-·. -------•
SHAW 

Another member of Shaw played well the role of "minute man.. · the "Flying Circus." In · throughout the season. This husl{y bearcat was KIRK · called on frequently to jump into tackle posi­
partnership with Bernie The · wonderful left
tion, where he. acquitted himself so' strikingly
·Kirk he was on the re­end!. Critics agree that
that even the taciturn Rockne was wont· to 
he is following Rockne's

_ceiving end of many a point him out with a '"Tl1at's-hirri!" Shaw was footsteps. His remark­.successful pass. ·He is impenetrable.. Possessed ' of. impressive phy­·able ability in catching 
a ·fast man,· and will be sique and a "f<;>otball" ·disposition, he has tne Gipp's passes is.worthymaking of a: champfo·n. ·.. Wiliing, anxious, and
with. us for two more of especial commenda­
· industrious, the big fellow should· during his 
tion. Notre· Dame will

Little Willie · Coughlin . seasons. two remaining years develop into an all-Ameri­be favored with his 
can.. At .present he is the best prospect for
DOOLEY · talents for two more
first-string _'position next· year. With this sure 
years.
P1<e-emiiH~nt' ·o'n· Rockne\,· squad of guards­"comer" in the local camp, we predict that men rind a fighting man in every ·sense of the the Coach's trouble at tackle will be the least word is big ."Jim" Dooley. Of; magnificent phy­of his worries. · sique and fierce ·driving ·power, the big boy Isn,t it funny: 
.b from the East has been a bulwark to the Gold DID YOU KNOW 'THAT 
(1) Lool~ before you

and Blue. He '\von ·his monogram -by dint of The game .with ·Morningside· on· Thanksgiving le.ap.-. .
grinding work. ·Nume1;ous ·times :Rockne sent 
Day marl{ed the· close of Notre Dame's. thirty­
(~}_· Ife· · ·w.ho _. hesi­

I!' I him into the line to relieve Smith at guard first football season? · It' was also her twenty­
and in every instance the Massachusetts giant eighth consecutive season. The gridiron-sport tates ,·is. lost, . showed himself equal to the task: ·when a play was inaugurated at Notre Dame back in 1887, . through the right \virig was to be stopped . 
when the Gold and Blue lost its first game to 
TOurJza.ment. Room . · · 
Dooley '\vas the·re. .A defensive star of first l\Iichigan by. a. score. of .8-0. magnitude, Dooley should in his two remain­So1·in.Iiall. ing years fight his way to the pinnacle of foot­
Bowlhig alley, Sorin ball fame. Hall. · : 
"Bernie"· Kirl;: 
Eleven 



A real t.trlng of heroes 
Boston College wades into Yale. Notre Dame slams \Vest Point. Georgetown makes the Navy eat out of its hand. Yet Callahans, Tim and l\Iike, are respectively .at. Yale . and Pt;inceton. For why? Let him answer who knows.-But Callahans, from Lawrence, :1\f:ass.,·: b~long not in Princeton, or Yale, but-in some Catholic ~allege.·* * * *And that's ";here. Charles Brickley, Catholic, daily communicant, Everett High and Harvard drop­kfcking.star, belongs. What's the· ans,yer?.:_(From the Brooklyn· Tablet.) 

· Scorhig In. the Aggie game 
Twelve 


THE BATTLE CALL 
BY V. F. FAGAN, '2q 
The cleats· a~d tap~, and ·i1ads ~vere set, And helinets ·lashed to fight'ing jaws. They set dnd c.r.ouched: Pet_e·,~ith the ball. 
.In silent soberness they ·met. · ' · The coache·s~ burning: ~dare.' "The pause . ·:\Vas tense, their flared ;the battle call. 
• ' ~ • : o. 0 ' I 
·,;Well boys.": ,ve're _.-l~er~ !. · . ~~H;lY've always .feared Our teams. But' now they s·mne · Contemptuous of your fighting nam~. In other·years they never jeered, It meant hot hell to goad andrile Those old-time men of Notre Damr,. 
"Remember Philbin and 'Big' l\Iac?· They're gone! But, boys, their spirit's here. Today Kirk, when you tackle, .crash Your man! A~d: Ha_rtley, fling them back! 
· That fullback· quits, drive in ·and smear Each. play. _:ch~r~e _Io~~:· ~nd;"Siackf?r'd, sinash! 
. .. 
·"They say you're :yello_w:, .guts :ar.e :gol).e, · 
For all I know they: may he ·.right. . Hit them with all yo.u've got!·. And: Joe~. : Let Bergman .rip on. foi·ty-one.-· . ·. · .. ·..Stand back! ·Y;ou de;vils, wild to,-fight! · · "It's ·time; now tearthem· up! 'Let's go!_" 


. Six years _agq Knute K. Rockne was an end and·captahi of the Notre Dame foot­ball team; and ·a:bout the best linem.an the Gold· and Blue ever. had. With Dorais at quai·ter and· Rockne at end the No.tre Dame attack was irresistible. When .Jesse Harper quit football and returned to ·business life, ·he left a sorry. gap· for local officials: -to fill. Harper's principles had· ,\ron much. fame for Notre Dame and his system,fitted: .0. K. · · 
They needed soiue one to jam into Harp~r's b(n·th, and one who had taken training under.:Harper himself was~natur­
. ally-preferred; · ·Along. toddled Rockne and they signed him at once. "Rock" took a tough baptism last year, due to the chaotic state -of athletics on account of the war, but he never­theless turried out a fast outfit. 
That one year was enough to tip him off on a lot of the finer intricacies of coaching, and sfnce that time he has been 
·as wise as the rest of them. He hasn't yet ascended to the plane where · he thinks he knows it all; but he commands the respect of every man on the squad, and well he may, for Notre Dame is com­ing through in great shape_ this fall, and largely through Rockne's capable direc­tion. 
"Rock". coaches ·his men the way he used to play, and he spends n lot of tinie · with his line sho'\;iilg them what to do· by example: ·The snowy~headed mentor..­gets· down and demonstrates by· action' \vhat he wants his men to·· do against· 
. their opponents, and 'he's a 'sure' success . of w'hat's what in tactics.-(By Archie . \Vard, in the Indianapolis Star, Nov. 1.) 



( 
I 
I 
! 
l 

I>1n-e l'hllbln-always dcnr to the ·henrt of Notre l>ame-­

i·he squad In 1017__:Jhn l'helan, CaiJt. 


Celebrating after the Ariny game. In 1017_;_Some· lllob 
Fourt(;!.en ..: .: : 


I~x-CnJitain "Uudie" An­dre\~·s, tnclde-l!HG 
At the Army· in l!H7-Xote the Jlllsition of the e111h 
! 
~ 



Charlie Dnchmnn, l!HG­·Nowconchlng Northwestern University, Chicago 
Fifteen 



l~x-Cn(ltnin ,Jim ]•iwlnn 
The l!H3 squml-Uoclme, ~nrnls, I•llslm, J.~ichenhiub-Some hunch 

"Eichenlaub'' This Is no gnme for a wenldlng Sixteen 



~\ nutty l'!cenc-Chnrlie C!lll; Pete Xo.onnu· nml ~-few other bums 
· ·where are the giants of yesteryear? Mc­Inerny, Bachman·, · Keefe, Feeney, Lathrop, Fitzgerald, Rydzewski and the rest. :Many of them will be in Indianapolis· Saturday for the Notre .Dame-Indiana . game,· but· one we know will not-be there-Big l\Iac,· the cheerful, the hard~fighting, .the unafraid. He lies out there on ti1e old· 'vestern front, and we l~now that in his last fight against· the Hun he was. the san1e old cheei·ful,· ha'rd-fighting, da~ing · .l\Iac that went .through so ma.ny 'gridiron · battles . for Notre Dame. But. the spirit of Big l\Iac and of all the othet;s is the spirit of the little Notre Dame team of 1919. * ·* * ':' It is a big task this 
. 
·_. ~ 
~~ ....~ . 
r ·-. ~· 
·_;.~ ..!· 


Big :\Inc! Your smlle lll'eS in our memory 

Paddy Driscoli,' former North,vestern star the time Notre Dame played . .the Great. Lakes team last year, and this· season no opposing team has put over a successful end run against this combination. * :.* * * Pudley Pearson, who plays sub-quarter, has charge of tickets for the game sa'turday, paints the banners for the pee-rade, hires the ·special trains, is manager of the.. students' special, . knows everything about .everything, _answers. all questions about the game· and. attends classes. Outside of this he has all his spare time to do as he pleases.­(By Thomas A.. Henddcks.::.~in_ tJ1e Indianapolis News, Friday;· Oct; 1.) 
"little" team has.' cut out for it-to carry on the work of its larger pt'edecessors. But the size of the job hasn't got· ti1ese. boys bluffed any more than the monster, Nebraska line, which they outplayed. 
"If the line can. hold,· the backfield will ramble." This se~m1s ·to be the theory of Rockne's campaign this year.. In' the backfield there is. enou.glr material to'make ·a track team. 'l,here are :backs that sprint, bacl\:s. that buck, backs that worm their way through a broken field, in fact, s01i1e .·backfield. 
At the ends there are. Kirk and Anderson, who did the hnvossible when ·they stopped· 
Seventeen "Cnptnin Lnrson" 


SORIN 
J.\Iiles, left half of the Sor~n squad and. Cap­tain-elect of· the 1920 varsity. baseball· tearu, is :worthy of commen­dation for his· rare ability as a drop~kicker and ·punter. Wi'th ~tlie aid o{ Hanrahan,· Cap­tain l\I u r_p h y, · and "Heavy" Owens, the Sarin team was one of the best in the Inter­Hall league. · 
41THE INTER-HALL LEAGUE"
THE UNDEFEATED FRESHl\IEN, 1919 The Inter-Hall League was more than inter­
N. D. Freshmen, 7; Valparaiso U niver­
esting this year. The Captains of the various sity, 0. teams with true varsity spirit went into the fight with the strong determination that their
N.D. Freshmen, 36; Culver l\Iilitary Acad-. 
respective squads should win the chanipionship.
emy, 7. · 
:i.\Iany men of varsity calibre were seen in ac­~. D. Freshmen, 36; St. Viator's. Colleg~, 0. tion, and to enter an Inter-Hall contest was taking life in your own hands. Corby won the
·N·~ D. F'r~slnne'n, 23; l\L. A~ C. F1;esh-· 
championship,. but only after many hard and men, o: close games.. The Corby team was heavy· and . N. D: Fr~sli~en~.· i;1~· ~ort ·\Vayne T. 0. with the aid of excellent coaching on the. part P., 0... ·. . .'_.· of Joe O'Hara and Father Haggerty and the 
experience of her men, succeeded in capturing · T~~is. Y:en:r's · F!e~l.tmen. squad..was the the title. largest that ever reported at-Notre Darnc. Walsh-Corby Called off on account of heated argument 
Tlie ·Ye.arlings could not have done better between the Rectors of each of the halls. than choose· "Ojay'~ ·Larson ·as·.· a hmder .and their· confiden~e in ,him .was not misplaced'; The Brownson-Corby big lad· from the Uppe·l~ Peninsula was very Corby. wins, 26 to 7. The lads from the dar­much in evidence in every play his team mates mitory lost to a much heavier and :more ex-executed.. After three more years of gruelling perienced team, but they did not give in without work under Coach Rockne, Larson will be able the "ole fight" for which they are noted on to make any man's ·All-American .. Degree and the campus. Breen and Smith were much in Parker are .men of high calibre, and it was the evidence. Ficks and ·Stuhldreher· showed up event in the life of an opposing back to gain well for Corby. through their guards. Degree should de.velop Walsh-Badin into a gf?Od punter. Carberry and Garby will Badin· wins by a lone· drop kick; The gold make good under-studies for Kirk and Ander-coasters fought hard agains"t the onslaught. of son next year. In the back' field, such men as :McNamara's pride. Shea,_ the .)3adin ·captain, Castner, Coughlin and Lynch. will be hard. to ran :true to ·form. . ·' ·· · keep off the varsity squad of any school; and · 
we predict keen· competition when· tlie ·.fall Walsh-SoriiJ .. of 1920 .rolls aromid: In ''Percy" 'Vilcox; the : · .The Walshites -lose by another. drop. ldcir, yearlings .have ~ sure thing,_at end. Any .mm1, 1\Iiles booting the ball squarely between the who can win a Distinguished Service Cross witli ·· · uprights froni ~a difficult angle .on the 40-yard the United States Leathernecks, is capable of line. l\Iagevney and Sargent ·showed· up well" upsetting football dope on any team. I(eep for 'Valsh. Thompson, as a result of his over-your eyes on "Percy." Coach John Miller, and ambition, will have a large dentist's ·bill. l\Ia-Assistant Coach Sherwood Dixon have turned lone and Coughlin coached the 'Valsh boys and out a wonderful Freshman team. In former they showed. the results of long and careful 
years, the yearlings· have won most of their drilling. games with large scores, but no one of them =============:========= has a record equal to that of the present team. Oh Bevo, ·where is th?J sting?. 
Eighteen 

Heimann 
Captain· of Brownson. 

. P.Ia_ying fl,lllbacll: , with 140. pounds.·1s not · the easiest· job in the ivorld, but· the Mas­-sillon lad did· liis best ·to fill it propei;ly. Good on defense and hard to stop on open field. 
Louis Walsh 
A protege of Coach Sanders, varsity guard, "Lou" was always in the game. 



I-eft to right-Coach O'IIara-Fielcs, Blelvernicht, "'nrtl, Atldnson, Shar11, 1Iart, Conway, Haub, Sanford-Bottom· row: I>esch, Stuhhlreher, Sexton, )lnrtin, Jhlethcr,
l>uffy, )Ioore. · · 
Brownson-Sorin 

Sorin wins, 13 to 0. All the scoring was done in .the first half. In the second half, Brownson outplayed the heavier upper-class 
. men, stopping 1\Iiles, ~IuriJhy, and Hallet con­sistently. · Hanrahan . 'was on his toes at all times and Owens and-:Pfohl mixed themselves in every play. Lou ·walsh entered the second half of the game minus his socks, while Capt. Heimann was minus a goodly share of his trousers, and mashed a perfectly good. can of Tuxedo while tackling the ferocious 1\Iiles. The 
:FA1'1ll~It HAGEH'l'Y . 

game was the cleanest played of the Inter­
Through whose strenuous efforts the Corby team was 
Hall series. 1\Iurph); was in every play with
Jlilotetl to the Inter-hull Chnmpionshi11 his fighting "Irish." 

Talce one-the New Idea. 
Save Your· Teeth-Beware of N. D. Steak-Connally. Nineteen 

Badin 
~ Hall 
Schmitt 
Schmitt

De Corps 
Right halfback. ThisComing from 1\lc­lad's ability to carry .Kinley High in Can­the ball and his excel­ton where he was lent defensive workcoached by the fa­Walsh 

was of great·value to 

mous In d i an, Jim 
the team. He wasThorpe. "Dick" will Hall mixed in eYery play.
be varsity material in another year. 



It w1::s the first of August in 1940. The scene was in the President's off\ce at ~otre Dame. Th~ clock in the chur~h steeple had just pierced the ba_lmy summer atmosp~ere with ten . joyous rings, and their echoes could be_ heard as they· floated here and there on the beautiful canip_us. The Secretary was busy at his ·desk. Suddenly he was interrupted by a loud lniock. , ~·~ome in!" he shouted. The door o~e:tied . and . Coach Rockne stepped in­siqe. 
"Good morning,_ -Garcia'' ·he said, "Is Father Tom _Burke in?':' 
"Not_ just. now," replied Garcia, who was now Secretary to the new President, Father Thomas Burke, "But I expect him in any min­ute. ·won't you sit . down and ~vait a little while?. Here's the latest copy of the "Juggler" you _m~g~t be i~terested in." 
"All .right, Garcia. Thank you" said Rockne as· he· took~ the copy of the "Juggler" and sat down on one of the· chairs which were •scat­tered here and there about the office. 
In a few minutes the President entered. He 
had been-very busy that morning with one of 
the Alumni; 1\Ir. Ambrose, who had called to 
see him relative to obtaining permission for 
conducting a vocal concert in \Vashington Hall. ·l\fr. Ambrose had recently retired from the Chicago Grand. Opera Company.­"Good morning, Roclr,". said. the President; "'What's the . good \vord ?" · "\Vell Father" answered the famous coach, "'I have some sad ne'\vs for you: this morning." 

"The Dream of a Dreamer" 
"What's the trouble?" asked Father Burke, becoming nervo_us. 
"I am going to ·resign! I have been here· for quit a while. We ·have w_on. the ~'All-American­.championship for the last twenty-two. years·,. 
. and, as you well know, I have 'vorked. pretty hard during that time. I'm-beginning· to lose:_­~1Y ol{ -'pe£>' .and I have decided to ·g:iy~ .up football and spend ·a few yea~~· i~ ti·avelling a.·round the country before settling down at my home· in ·Pasade-na~" 
F.or a·moti1ent 01; two the President rem~ined speechless. Then he recollected himself. "Are you realiy going to leave us, Rock?" lle asked. 
"Yes," answered Rock, "I feel that the old Gold and Blu~ will find some one else who can take my place." 
"\Veil," said Father Burke, "They may find another man, but they never will find another 'Rock.'· Good-bye!" 
"Good-bye'' whispered R<;>clr, and with these words he departed. · 
The following :\Ionday the former football coach boarded the train for Ne\v. York City. He h·ad a long I;ide ~head of him," but he was well . p~·eimred -\vith .. copies-. or' the-.; scholastic and othm~ ,high-c.lass. ·literature.. ·He ·busied liimself ioi·. a 'vhile looking out of the windo'v. 

· at· the beautiful .scen~ry along the ·tracks, ·and, as" ·uie ·da~·kness came~ h'e tired of' reading 3:ml. Io~king at the scenery· and.. fell into a Iieav~' slumber.·· -He had been up ·au-of th_e ·.night before· preparing for· his: journey and ,qonse­quently was very tired. 
~wenty-one 

About a half an hour later he was awakened by a hand laid upon his shoulder. To· him, the· half. hour of slumber seemed· like three or four hours. He rubbed his :.-eyes arid said "'Where am I?" Then he sat.:·hp in his. seat and· looked in the face of the ·eomfu~tor. One look at that face was enougn. to ~rouse ·Rock froni any sleep. \Vho was tli~ conductoi:.-but 
.one of the old players on tlie. 1bi9 va-rsity t~am! B~han! The Captain of th~ 19_1~ squa~ !:~,_ 
The conductor looked at Rock ·in amazement. "Rock!" he shouted so that it··could ·be· heard all-through the car, "What in Heaven brings you here!" 
"And you, Pete," said. Rockne.. -"I never t~10ught you would be picking up _'f,ii.irs.' \Veil how is everything, anyway?. ·:oo you~ ever-see any of the old bunch?" 
"Sure, I see several of, Jhem . from time. to time. I just had our old friend,· Gipp, on· the last trip. Did you hear the -~e~s of his new position? -He's succeeding 1\Iartie 1\IcCu~ as · 
·D_ean of Engineering." 

"YoU: don't tell me!"' exclaimed Rock, "And ··-do you ever see Trafton or Barry?" 
·. "Oh yes! I see Trafton quite often. He's on· tl1e stage now. He rides with nie about once a week. He's n1aking ~11 the. small. towns. pidn't you hear about Barry?-He's g-oing into partnership with his brother-in-law,-Barney ~ragan, in the grocery b_usiness." 
They proceeded to talk about this one and that one, until the train stopped· at· the next 
i 
: 
I I 
station. "I've got a little surprise for you here" said Pete. In a few minutes lte re-entered and coach Roclme was introduced to :.\Irs. Bahan and three little Bahan~. 
The remainder of the day was spent in pleas­ant chatting about the old 1919 team, what had. become of its players, etc. At 10 o'clock the meeting was adjourned and all went to bed. The train was due to arrive in New York City at 7:30 the following morning. 
At 8:00 a. m. the train arrived at the Grand Cenetral depot. It was just a half hour behind time, so Rockne hl;lrried at once to the Hotel McAlpine. He obtained a room and left his baggage there. It was necessary that he at­tend to a little business at once, so he decided to. take cm;e of this first and then see the sights. He had no sooner reached the street than hE: heard great .shouting and commotion. Crowds were lined up along the sidewalk and a parade was going by. He climbed up on one of the windows of the hotel where he could get a gpod view. They appeared to be members of the police department in procession. He in-· quired of a little news-boy the object of the celebration. "\Vhy they're celebrating the ap-· poh:itment of Chief Kirk, the new head of the Police Department." Rockne became more in~ terested than ever. He watched closely, and sure· enough there was old "Bernie" right in the center of attraction! Rock followed the parade until finally it dispersed in all directions. At last he succeeded in locating Chief Kirk, who ·was surprised, amazed and delighted to see· his former coach. The Chief invited him over' to his office to have a good talk over old 
times. They chatted for almost two hours. It "1as close to dinner time so the Chief asked Rockne to dinner. It seemed that they had so much to talk about that they would never get through. After the meal Bernie said-"Lets go over to Dutch's Ice Cream Parlor ror our dessert." 
"That name sounds familiar" said R::>clme. "You don't mean to telf me that Dutch Berg­man runs an ice cream ·parlor 11m·e???" 
"Sure thing!" replied the Chief. A~ter a brisk walk of about _five minutes they arrived at the famous "Dutch's". It was the most noted of all ice cream parlors in the city of New Ym;k.·-It was the oniy place where they put cherries in. the cherry sundaes. 
Arthur almost fainted when he beheld the countenance of Rockne. At last he came to. and he almost ruined Rock's hand with a hearty shake. He treated them each to a Sorin Hall Sundae which was indeed very delicious. Of course, Rock had a long talk ·with Dutch about things that had happened at the old Alma l\Iater. Meanwhile the Chief of Police was called a,vay on business, but he said he would return later; Rock.ne spent the entire after­noon in. tlie··i~e· cream pat:lo~·; which' wa~ in­~eed-a ~~ry .beautiful ·place.· The walls ,\r~re decorated with N. D. pennants and flags of all descriptions. 
At 5:30 Dutch and Rock started for the former's home. Arthur had called up Bernie, who was to meet them there. 
They had almost given up hope of having the Chief arrive in time for supper, when a knock 
Twenty-two 

was heard at the door and he entered. After supper. they continued.to talk of the old days. "How is everything around South Bend and l\Iishawaka?" queried Dutch. "I suppose the old places have changed considerably." 
"I should say they have" said Rock, "f sup­pose you heard that "Honk" Anderson is now l\Iayor of Mishawaka! ·walter Miller is run­ning the Cafeteria at the 'Y.' Grover Malone is night watchman on the campus. Madigan is now prosecuting attorney of South Bend. Coughlin is manager of l\fax Adler's store. These are only a· few of the many changes tliat 
.have taken place out there!" 
* ::= * * 
The hours passed by. It was almost eleven­thirty. Rockne was tired after his long journey and 'vas anxious to get to bed, so the little party broke up. That night Rockne stayed at the home or' ·Arthur. The· following morning Mrs. Bergman served a delicious breakfast. She was a first-class coolr, having take~ a special course in domestic science at St. l\Iary's where she formerly attended school. 
The first one to break the silence of the meal was Dutch. "Well, Rock" he said, "I suppose you would like to know the whereabouts of the rest of the members of the old 1919 team?" 
"I should say that I would" exclaimed Rock. 
"\Vell" said. Arthur, "I have a little more news that I must break to you gently. Do you remember Johnnie Mohardt who used to play in the renowned backfield?" · 
"I never will forget him" answered Rock. "\Vhat's he doing for a living now?." 
"vVell" commenced Dutch, "Johnnie is. en­gaged in a very strange line of work. He is a mind-reader and a phrenologist. This morn­ing I am going to take you up to his office and have him ..tell you just what happened to the rest of the old hunch." 
* * * * 

An hour later found Rockne and Dutch in the office of "Mohardt the Great." Of course, he was just as glad to see Rock as any of the others, although he was not quite as surprised, or at least he did not appear to be. He claimed that he knew that Rock was coming to visit him, ·owing to his superior· mind-reading and farseeing powers: Then the great phrenologist bade Rockne he seated and he proceeded, after a moment's pause to unfold the history of the 1919 eleven. 
."Far away beneath the \Vestern skies, I can see our old friend, 'Dud' Pearson. In the year 1925 he accepted a position with the Sunshine Motion Picture as leading man in one of their productions. He worked diligently for the firm and is now manager and own.er of the com­pany. A little to the East I can see another familiar character, l\lorrie Smith. He went \Vest in 1929 for his health and is now managing a ranch in :i\Iontana. In the middle western states we come across another of our old friends, 'Cy' Degree is night editor of the Chicago Herald & Examiner. Eddie Ander­son is President of the First National Bank of Cleveland. Jim Dooley is Fire-Chief of Cin­cinnati, Ohio. Shaw and Sanders are in the movie business in Philadelphia. They are the only rivals of the :N'ati·e Dame· Theater. The 
U. N. D. Quartet consisting of Kasper, \Valsh, Phelan and ~Wynn is now on the Kiet11 circuit and. promises to do big things in the coming years. Connors is now head coach at Illinois. Last, but not leas~. I see that the dearest of our old friends, Dave Hayes, is now Rector of Sarin Hall." 
* * * 
The famous old coach raised his eyes, as from a great dream. He had listened in­tentively. 
"Yes indeed! \Vhat a wonderful squad we had back in '19." -G. E. B. 

WE MEET THESE OCCASIONALLY! 
HE THOUGHT-He was an able-bodied man, . With mental power sup.reme. \Vithout a doubt, the coach would come And grab him for the team. 
He did not lack one. quality, \Vith "ginger" he was blessed. He was a natural football man, A star-one of the best! 
His skill in circling round the ends, A system all his own, Had won him wondrous glory,
I 
I For all over he was known. 

BUT-Day after day he waited for The coach to call his name. He felt the. joyous moment nearing And at last it came. 
The football coach· accosted him, And whispered ·sweet and low:-· ":i\Iy boy, I have sad news for you. You'll never do, I know! 
, "Your passes are discouraging, Your tackles poor and f(nv. Again; I must reiterate­! lmow you'll never do! 
"Keep up the fight-don't weaken For the future yet may gleam. And if you work real hard, p-e-r-h-a-p-s, You'll make the Freshli1an team." 
,. 
:t 
i 1 
I' 

L. P. HARDY CO., SOUTH D£N01 IN). 

Published 1919 by 
BRESLAND & HEIMANN University of Notre Dame 

I 
i.. 



// B: 
Vol. LIII. Football Number, December 6, 1919 No. 11 
Che i^ouTe Same Scholastic A&CepcisemenCS 
PIXONl 
EYES EXAMINED I MAKE THIS YOUR MEETING PLACE 
Glasses Fitted at Moderate Prices 
SaHsfacHoH Guaranteed 
JIMMIE & GOATS 
DR. J. BURKE & CO., 
, OmMtsraisTs AND MANDFACTOKING OPTIOAMS . "WHERE THE CARS LEAVE" ' Mrttwwboattedtfaem. Brine Uw pieoa. 23O S. Michigan Ot 
^ 4> 
The Ellsworth Store J. J. KF(EUZBERGE(l 
^LL KINDS OF FURNITURE AND ROOM FUR­MERCHANT TAILOR NISHINGS AT SPECIAL PRICES FOR NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 916 W. Jeffenon Blvd Arnold Bniidint 
•* * 
N.V. P. TRUNKS National Grocer Company 
by the makcnirf "Indestructo" and sellinx at a mnder" 
WHOLESALE GROCERS
•te price. LngKage section—2nd floor 
403-8 Sonth S t Joseph Street South Bend. Indiiuw GEO. WYMAN & CO. s ­
"LICiTT HOUSE BRANDS" ' "x" 
•* * 
PureOmct. Canfol Ca«ip«Muidinc. ~ . Prompt Serriee 
Frank Mayr & Sons 
JEWELERS 
The Eliel Pharmacy 
113 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 
: 930 W. Wadnocton -Kyi. ! Emit Reyer. Ph. C-Mgr. 
Kable-s Restaurants 
'ia«r(o6 N. ICcficu St. ' rt9 W. Jeff(^9on ByhL' iuiw. WmMagtMt Ave. : 906-So: Midiiiaa St. 
ji^^^-i-.i._-,, 
-ro -: '•'^ '^V' ''-

WMssimmimmmmmmm 
Hy^ure HEALy 

SCNOIAITIC BOARn • 
•-^. 
'X..: 
i cvK-c.f:-'-''•---'' 
•.-.;--i .-..•-•>.-• 
VV • t;c i i,4. , . 
;:>-,i-J.X-i'r%-t"«^>^i^ 
die Howpe Same Schdascic ACttfepCiaemenC^' 
-' 
-. --'­
--" --' "^ C* -"^ ~ ---, '-~ '-_> I" -'-,.' -'" 
' \ 
• \ -• V'"-;'-; ; " , •'^ ' ^ -_ _: • -' , •' "" : -''^-/^'^^ -. ' "*. 
--•• ­
XMAS SUGC^STIQNS
-
-•_ " 
-Notre DameJeweleiy:—Notre Dame 
V
-seal or monogram rings, pins, combina­• 
•' • 
tion sets wjtfi pearls, cuff links, rosaries \­
^•^ •
with cases. La Vallieres, brooch pins, knives, fobs, ever sharp j)ehcils with : ^ _-<: 
. 
^ seal, card cases, Waldemar chains; ihostly 
:\,;:
any article of jewelery mounted vridi 
-
••' ']
the Notre Dame seal or monogram. 
--• 
-Notre Dame leather or felt goods:—Notre 
• .', Dame ^al or monogram, pemiants, blankets. 
---pillow covers, or table covers. In leather: pillow. covers, whole hides, with embossed seal or ; 
• ; 
/• 
--monograms. A --']" 
> ;, ­
-Memory Books:-^Leather covers, with; mono-" 
-
gram or seal; also four other styles of memory 
'i 
:' •,.
and photo books.-:> 
'> .' 
Our stock of sUk slurts, knitted and silk neck-< ­
• ', . 
•':.j::
/ • wear, and other furnishings, is very J extensive. ' . 
1' "" 
^4. 
"_ Gall and look over the "new things," and relieve. 
~h ' 
-y your mind of that worry of "what shall I buy 
•~ r'-% 
; ^ -' 
:'"-• 
' -for **her**; or "him." ' ^ ; < > ^ : 
.:;;^^S« 
.-^^^^^^^ > ^ 4...,: .-^ ::,.-' ' I ioi^i09 Sb^MichigaiiSh ; 108 W/wifcii^^Ave! i ^ ^ ^:\-'?'\ 
• Ji '/-'-' -" '••.^•> "•*•"• ''r-:'/-^ :1^-v—^ Conductors ofv'-~ ^ >r.^ •^;%. "•:>'c'v>'-'^­
-;-' is-^i'^-:;'"'•-' ' • Tl^^i^d^JetSi^SfewteSvrj ^;^ -S ^ ' ^ 
--^ '.'' • 
'^^ --•-'_}-.. ,---'•.-'.>:--,':'.<-.-^:'"i "-. •'.--,,-„; -Oii-die Gm^)us.-I_:^-^-. ^"•-,;\;.^"-A'--<^^'";-^^ >-' 
-.i -. 
;-,-l-'--"..-v '-'•,':-:-':. • :-.Hany/E/PpdmM',Mff.r; _:_r,, C/-V''v:;/.-^-"":--^.>" -;;,•'-:-'• :'• 
•^ — •^vi-"" \^''--^j rj'':l^,/ '•'^•^•.'\' A'-'i^\'---r-^--l ^ „ ^•^I'.'i''----"^/ -'A-/,^/--.;^'^r'c>'" >T"'f^ 
>.••:::, 
-r -*^-" ' „ 
-"v -':'''--j'"~' /'•->'"'.r"l''' ~"!^ -";••-"''"-:." -•', ."• '-".•-.' '''--"/-'7''V.•'-'"••-;-'',--"•"•-"'-,".''-;---•'';""•'--JA --,''<~'~!'y 
'^MzMlM S^S^ j^ ;Sfe^v-S ^-^:SSS!^'?i5iiSs2^ 
•?^-.--.-c5«2,;^>'
-M^'^ii^}^;:^^;^ 
:Siir-'%K^:i-«£?:.-i^-_-?^;
«;s;*its»i 
(Che Notn^e &ame Scholastic A6Cert>i8ementd 
•I* f 
Monogram Soda Pipes GriUe 


Mike's Restaurant 
and Lunch Room 
H. E. GROSS & SON. Props. 105 E. Jefftrson Ave., South Bend Home Phone 6183 
•• ­

Nobile's College Inn 
HEADQUARTERS FOR CANDIES FRUITS AND ICE CREAM 
STUDENTS' ORDERS FILLED PROMPTLY 
108 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 
Phones: Bell, 602; Home, 965 

"WALK-OVERS" 
THE STVDENrS SHOE 
WALK-OVER BOOT SHOP 
I IS S. Michigan' St. 
Bell Phone 581 Will caU at UnhersUyHome Phone 3451 by aPtmntmtnt 

Chiropodist 
L. L. ROBERTS 
Office and Residence. 222 S. Taylor Street, South Bend. Ind. 

klingel & Kuehn 
SHOES OF QUALITY 
Between Oliver Opera House and J. M. S- Bldg. . SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 
-f—» 

Baker's Shoes 
"FOR MEN WHO CARE" 
BXCLUSIVB IN STTLB PBKFBCT IN FIT 114 W. Washington, Ave. South Bend,-Indiana 

Dr. Walter A. Hager 
EYE, EAR. NOSE AND THROAT 
Tdephone Bell 52 
N. W. Cor. Lafayette St. 
and Washington Ave. South Bend, Ind. 
Res Bell 1162 
DR. R. F. LUCAS 
DENTIST 
611-612 J. M. S. Bids. 
Cor. Main St. and Wash. Ave. South Bend, Ind. 
OFrics: PHONES RBSIDBNCS: Bell 886. Home, 5842. Bell, 3561. Home. 3702 
DR. JOHN A. STOECKLEY 
DENTIST 
No. 511. Comer Suite Wash. Ave. and Msun St. 
J. M. S. Binldinc South Bend. Ind. 
"•-•-•-••-• 
* • 
DR. F. W. VAUGHN 
SURGEON DENTIST and ORTHODONTIST 
60S J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind. 
With the Laigest and Best Equipped Printing Plant in 
Northern Indiana, and the most skillful workmen,.we are 
prepared to meet your most otacting requirements. 
L. P. HARDY CO. 
417-423 S. St. Joseph St. South Bend, Indiana 
n « f at R f amiable Prices. ^>ecial attention 
Oicydcs ti^liiS^^^^^^^' Anderson Brothers & Bultinck 
t09 West CoUaz Ayenne Sootk Bend. Indiana 
THE UGHT OF THE VISION 
Br CHRISTIAN REIO 362 pi».-r4>rice $1.25 
THE AVE MARIA . . NOTRE DAME. IND. 



oiDo^icbolastiG 
c 

DISCE QUASI-SEMPER-VICTURUS VIVE-OVASlCRASinORITVRV/S 
VOL. LIII . NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 6, 1919. No. 11. 
Notre Dame Football, 19x9. 
BY I'AUL SCOFIELD, 
>ITH a record and no de­feats Coach, Rockne's foot­

ball men have just closed a season as strenuous as it was successful, and the Notre Dame eleven should rightly be called "The Champions of the West." They met and defeated some of the strongest teams of the West, and their victory over the Army placed them at least on an equal with the -much adver­tised teams of the East. The fame they achieved for themselves and for the school will be lasting, and associated with this _ fame is the feeling of all Notre Dame men, each one of whom is proud of the team and the school they represented. 
Cartier Field was the scene of the first game of 1919, in which Kalama­zoo College ftmaished somewhat unexpected opposition. The Notre Dame line was not yet fully developed, and time 
of 
 20. 
 nine victories 

The first points of the season were annexed by Captain Bahan who, after Malone and Gipp had circled the ends for several sensational gains, carried the ball over the line, and then kicked 
goal. Seven more 
NOTRE DAME RECORD. 1919 
K. K. ROCKNE. Coach 
CHARLES DORAIS. Ant. Cowh LEONARD BAHAN. Capuin 
Kalamazoo. at Notre Dame Mt. Uni<»i at Notre Dame Nebraska at Lincoln Western Noraial 

- at Nobce Dame Indiana at Indianapolis^ ­Army ^ at West Pdnt Michigan Aggks at Notre Dame Purdue at Lafayette 
Momingside ^ at Soux City 
Total Score 
N. D. Opp. 0 14 7 60 9 14 0 53 3 16 9 12 0 13 13 33 
6 14 
 229 47 
 points were added when "Dutch" Bergman stroll­ed fifty y£urds through the entire " Kazoo" team, and Bahan kicked goal. The final score of 14 to o was not a true indication of the respective merits of the teams, for the local eleven achieved many a spectacular gain only to lose the ball through some fluke or~ penalty. 
The eleven men from Ohio, representing Mount Union College, who were the next invaders of Car­tier Field, returned to the Buckeye State with their championship hopes sadly blighted, having been forced to accept the short end ~ of a 6o-to-7 score-The first quarter appeared to indicate a dose contest, as the period ended with the score a tie, 7 to 7, in consequence of the bril­liant runs of the N. D. backfield and a neatly executed forward pass by ChoUey and Brown, of Mt. Union. The remain­ing quarters in'^no way resemcled the first. An 

and again it allowed the Wolverines to Ireak unsophisticated spectator might easily have through and stop the backfield men before they thought that Rockne had placed his track team could get under way. As the game progressed, on the field, as the Gold and Blue sprinted down however, the line braced and the speedy backs the field for eight more touchdowns. The final tore through their opponents for two touchdowns, account credited them with nine touchdowns and 
I62 '^fie Nocre dame Scholascie 
six goals. It is not easy to select for particular mention any individual in that game from among the constellation of N. D. stars that shone on that occasion. The whole aggrega­tion of twenty-four men who represented 
N. D. played in stellar form. 

The first game on the road was played at Lincoln, Nebraska, where the Gold and Blue met the University of Nebraska and treated them to the tune of 14 to 9. This was the biggest game of the year for the "Comhuskers" and a multitude of enthusiasts were on hand in anticipation of a big Nebraska victory. Their cheer that accompanied the kick-oxlf was still ringing when "Little Dutch" stood smiling behind his goal posts and Notre Dame was six points to the good. Gipp had received the kick-off and, according to a bit of deliberate strateg}% started down one side of the field only to pass the ball to Bergman,. who, feeling the responsibility of his title of "Flying Dutchman," went down the other side of the field for the first touchdown. Bahan kicked goal and then the real battle began. Outweighed seventeen pounds to the man, our team grittily endeavored to stop the drive of the Nebraska backfield, but the "Comhuskers" battered their way through for a touchdown. They failed to kick the goal. The opening of the second half saw Nebraska determined to overcome the one-point lead of the "Hoosiers" and Notre Dame equally deter­mined to maintain it. For a while the outlook for Rockne's men was dark. Their opponents forced them back to the 27-yard line, but here Notre Dame held and took the ball on downs. Bahan then opened the box of tricks, which had been brought on purpose, and then began the return march, which ended when the captain of the Gold and Blue carried the pigskin over for the second touchdown.. Nebraska realizing the impregnability of the Irish line, opened an aerial attack, and Dobson soon succeeded in booting from the 40-yard line a beautiful drop­kick between the bars. This marked the end of the scoring. The remainder of the game was played in Nebraska's territory. 
The. team of the Western State Normal at Kalamazoo, Michigan, after victories over 
M. A. C. and Wabash, trotted out on Cartier Field fully prepared to humble the Irish. In the end they limped from the same field after 3delding 53 tallies to Notre Dame and saving none for themselves. With the game two minutes old, Gipp and Malone had carried the ball close to the goal, and on the next play "George" registered six points. From then the pupils of Rockne and Dorais gained almost at will; the backs enjoyed themselves by romping up and down the field; the linemen stopped every attack and opened great holes for the men carrying the ball. Barry and Bergman toth got away for beautiful runs through the whole Normal team for touchdowns. Brandy, Mohardt, and Thelan also plowed through the opposition for tallies. 
Six hundred "rooters," on a special train chartered for the occasion, accompanied the team to Indianapolis to see Notre Dame triumph over Indiana in an animated mud-pie battle. The final score of 16 to 3 did not show the comparative merit of the Northern team, as they acquired several touchdowns that were recalled and Indiana was playing against a team of substitutes in the latter part of the- game, Rockne saving his "best bets" for the Army game to be played the following Saturday. Never, perhaps, was a football game played under conditions more unfavorable. The field was a mass of mud and rain and rain was falling throughout the contest. The light backfield of the Gold and Blue soon found that such mud was not conducive to good sprinting; never­theless, they got away for several long runs. The first touchdown occurred in the second quarter when, after "Hunk" Andersjon had blocked an Indiana punt on the five-yard line, Gipp carried, the ball over—only to lose the slippery pig-skin. Slackford quickly recovered it, however, and claimed the first points of the game. With only a few minutes of the first half to complete, Gipp drove the ball between the posts from placement on the twenty-five yard line, making the count 9 to o. In the third quarter Indiana found the Gold-and-Blue line pimcture proof and lost the ball on downs on the forty-yard line. Thence the"" Rockmen" on four straight first downs advanced to the goal line, where Gipp went over, making the total sixteen points. Rockne then injected a swarm of substitutes, who held the Indiana eleven until penalties placed the ball within striking distance of the goal. But even here the Indiana squad could gain only three yards in three downs, and Risley from the twenty-yard mark attempted a 
place-kick which barely cleared the bar and made Indiana the proud possessor of three points, their only score in the game. The much-touted attack of Indiana failed to materiajize and they 
'^e Nocre dame Sdiokisck? 
succeeded in making only one first down from scrimmage as compared to fifteen by the Gold and Blue—evidence of the stonewall defence and brilliant offence of the Northerners. 
The following week Notre Dame, minus Berg­man, who was injured in the Indiana game, went East to meet her ancient rivals, the Cadets of West Point. The prospect was not encouraging, but not once did the team falter, not even when the Army with a score of 9 to o stood against them. They still had the intention to win, and they did win, as all the country knows. They won 12 to 9 in the greatest game that has been played on the "Plains" in years—demonstrating 
••• •j •B^H H ^^^^H ^H ^^^H^H 
• 

after pass was hurled by Gipp into the waiting arms of Bahan, Kirk, and E. Anderson—^five of them in all, by which the "second lieuts" were completely bewildered; and then with the ball on the one-yard'mark, Gipp drove through for a touchdown, ending the half 9 to 6. The second half opened with the Gold and Blue smashing through the soldiers' line to the ten-yard mark, where the ball was lost on downs and the Army kicked out of danger. Another march goalwards was promptly started by the Westerners, and this time there was no stopping them. Dazzling forward passes to Kirk, E. Anderson, and Barry brought the ball again to 
W' r.^BTW g 
•*%!.. •.• f^ ^ •*» -^ ^ 
S' 
•^ ij 

• ^#^^ 
>" 
^^-§

»» 4 
^-^ 
'?•?• 
ait \>^<H * >€'- *t --. 
ilH 

^^p HH^I 
• IH • 


BH |H 
PVI 
1 ^^1 [t^^ 
S 
«§•; 0 '«" ^ ^ 
41 
'r 
T:' i^ 

Reading left lo right.—top row; Dooley; Shaw; Crowley; Kasper; Cudahy; KUey; Coughlin; Trafton; Mehre; Vohs; Wyan; Walsh-
Middle Row: H. Anderson; Slackford; Kirk; Bergman; Mitler; Bahan (Capt.)^Brandy; Hayes; Barry; E. Anderson; Pearson; O'Bara-
BottoniRow: Holton; Sexton; Donovan; Connors; Ambrose; Sanders; PayneT Prokop; Mohardt; Phelan. (Gipp. -Smitb. Degree. 
Malone, and Madigan, five of the most prominent stars of the team, are unfortunately absent from the picture.) 
again that the Gold and Blue never quits, what­ever the odds. In the first quarter the Army displayed an offence that was irresistible. Time after tiriie they pounded the Notre Dame line for substantial gains, till they carried the ball to the one-yard line, but it took them four efforts to measure that single yard. Again the Cadets took the ball, and advanced to the twenty-six yard line—only to find that the "Fighting Irish" were now fully aroused and determined to stop them. The West Pointers then had recourse to a place-kick, whick McQuarrie sent squarely between the posts, thus making the score stand 9 to o against the Westerners. Field-marshal "Jimmie" Brandy, after running back the kick-off, opened up with the style of play that defeated the Cadets in 1913. Plass the one-yard line; Miller's drive resulted in another touchdown, and the "shave-tails" were for the first time on the wrong end of the score. The last quarter was almost a repetition of the third. "Hunk" Anderson recovered Wilhide's fumble, and again the Gold and Blue advanced to the ten-yard line, but slippery footing prevented them from carrying the ball over. The remainder of the game saw the Westerners resting, with frequent exchange of punts in which Degree outclassed his opponent, and the game ended just as Brandy intercepted a forward pass preliminary to another advance. 
Reinforced by two hundred "rooters" and a fifty-piece band, the Michigan "Aggies" invaded Rockne's camp a week after the Army game, knowing that they were the Notre Dame "jinx" 
'^(ie hiocre 6anieddKkigciGr 
and that they had defeated the Indiana eleven last year. Rockne, taking little account of these facts, however, and wishing to save his regulars for the Purdue fray, started the game with a team of substitutes, except Degree, "The first quarter proved that th§-'Aggies' were stronger than estimated; they not only stopped the Notre Dame attack but threatened to score. Most of the regulars were sent into the game at the beginning of the second quarter and the tide^ began to turn. Using the same aerial attack that had been so effective against the Army, the Gold and Blue carried the ball to the five-yard line, but they lost it on downs. A second time the Varsity swept forward almost to the goal line, but an imcomplete pass over the line lost them the ball. The "Aggies" punted, and then a third N. D. offensive was under way. Bahan and Slackford repeatedly^ broke through the Michigan lin^, and after a long pass, Gipp to Kirk, had placed .the ball within strildng distance of the goal, Slackford plunged through for the first touchdown of the game. The third quarter found the teams in a punting duel with Degree having the advantage. The final quarter ^as featured by brilliant pass work on the part of Gipp,^Kirk, and Coughlin. "B^igle" reached some eight or ten feet in the air^ a^d pulled down a pass behind the goal. Bahan^Idcked goal, bringing the final total to 13 points'. The record,crowd which attended the gaine got an idea of how the Army was defeated by the wizardly passing game of Gipp and Kirk. 
The eighth consecutive victory of the season was the, result of Notre Dame's Jaunt to La­fayette where Purdue was humbled 33 to 13. The^GoId and Blue eleven was slightly over-" confident at the beginnii^ of the game and the "Boilermakers" pushed Wer a touchdown in the first- quarter. But Rodcne's men soon realized the strength of their oppon^its and Bergman and Kirk both registered in the second. period, the. former by means of an end-run and the latter-by. b^ g on the. receiving end of a cannonrball pass, from Gipp. .:T1ie third period' brought fOTth more aerial work, and""Bemie" Kiric boosted.the total .to nineteen. .With, fifteen minutes to play, Purduefought to over-­cp;^e\the lead of .thdr <q»p^aents and managed to score aa,;jaore.ppint5..: But tJie teun from, ntn^dieni Indiana was not sati^tedmth a 19-^ sf^att;, .soTTrafton stag^- a^qiri^ fpF,f.VtQuck-. down, and H..^ Anderstm .•i»2e^ 
TanojU^ ^maricer,, -' George's." , da^'^b^ig the ­
^^•s^j^^^^^z^smmmmMM 
result of a Purdue fumble, while "Hunk" was on his toes in intercepting a forward pass^ The final result of course make the Gold and Blue the~ "champs of Indiana" and the only undefeated big eleven in the West. The aerial work was phenomenal/twelve passes being good for a htmdred and sixty-two yards, and the line men notonlydid their allotted work exceptionally well but also had a share in the scoring and in receiving passes. 
With snow falling throughout the contest and the thermometer at ten above zero, Notre Dame upheld^the hope of her supporters for a clean slate for the season by defeating Morning-side College, 14 to 7, at Sioux City, Iowa. A fumbled kidc-off at the opening of the game gave Momingside their lone marker. The ' * Rockmen'' only fought the harda* and'' Jimmie Brandy soon wiggled through for a tally, tieing the score. George Gipp then decided to do some stepping, by which seven niore points were added and the scoring ended. The famous aerial work was not uncovered as the weather condition" made it impossible. Thus with a record of nine victories and no defeats Notre. Dame ended her regular season with a strong claim to the_ championship of the West. 
The Battle CalL 
BY V;- F. FAGAN, 20. 
TH E cleats and tape, and pads were set. 
And helmets lashed to fighting jaws: ­They sat and crouched, Pete with the ball. , In silent sobcxnessthey met The coaches' burning glare. The pause Was tense, then flared the battle call. 
"Well boys'we're here! They've always feared. Our teams. But now they, smile Contemptuous of your fighting name, 
^ n other years they'never jeered, ' It meant Jiot hell to goad and rile Those old-time men of Notre. Dame. .... 
'^Remember Philbin and 'Big':Mac? 
• They're gone! . Buti boys, thdr spirit's here. 
Today.Kirk,.whenyottrtac]de, crs^h -Your man! And Hartley, fling them back! . ~ .'That ftdlbsick 'quifs,'dbn]t^ in aiidlsmear L. 
£(u:h~^y. Charge low, u ^ smash! 
j" They, say" ycm're. ydlow,^.guts -are gone, ,- .• r s. FOT all I jbBOW.^ey niay be rightl v^ / X * Hit them inth'aU yra*W got!. A^d, Joe,'^ I<et Boigniiuft rip'«M.^^ -> -: ; 
^StohdVlM^!:;< y<m,^eyils;w^d to fight! '. ~: .:; It^s tinai«,noW tear t^ ^ IL^sgot" 

-•r^^xi^i^"^^ 
-^•^:.m 
'Sfie Nocre dame^diokwdcr 
165 
Varsity Veise. 
How THEY DID IT. 

September brought the gang again to Notre Dame, 
•And "Rock," he says to Dorais, "Let's start this foot­
ball game." ^ Out came, the uniforms, with marks of ancient gore. He placed them on some sturdy men, a couple score. Then came a little practice of brain and'body too. And-'"Rock": said, "Guess you're ready, now show 
,.; what you can do." Kazoo,, the Normals,^first upon the field were brought. We beat them by fourteen to Kazoo's tiny naught. Then came Mount Union here, a strong Buckeye 
eleven, • And we had a pleasant track meet—sixty-one to seven. 
' Next it was Nebraska, a terrifyiiig sign. But we gave them a walloping fourteen to nine. Then Western Normal thought that they had many a 
h€XO But we got"^ty-three, they carried home a zero. Old Indiana followed and finished with a three. And our "Rockmen" grabbed a sixteen, and made it 
victory. Then looking for some real fight, they drubbied the Army boys. Kicked the Old Mule twelve to nine, I'll say we made 
some noise. ­Next they tried the Farmers, the Aggies Wolverine, Gave them the big zero, and themselves secured 
fourteen. • . Purdue also had ahunch that they could play the game. Just thirty-three to thirteen—they all look the same. And just to finish strong we took on Mornihgside, And-by fourteen to six we took li e Hawkeyes' hide. And now that we've the championship of all the football 
world, ^ , Let's have the fighting Gold and^Blue to every breeze unfurled. "-" . —^J-T- B. 
To THE MEN OP THE^BAM. 

Yours was a brilliant team, indeed;— The swiftest of our day— Let lasting glory be the meed Of praises for your play. . 
It was^a_ splendid gallantry 
- You showed in every game,^­
~A spirit surging like the sea—~ And proud is Notre Dame.' 
_•- :;May,~ when your'gridiron days are done. Your courage ever be, -- As when Our Lady's champion, "•. ~ , . ' You brought her victory .rr-w. c. H. ' 
-% .-. -BAHAN. "-. _ : -' _ 
Here's to the lad with a corner on grit. 'He's the pluckiest fighter that stands on two feefc; And I'll always be proudthat I've shaken the mitt; Of tfc quarterback captain and gentleman.f-Pete; 
W^}^r.­
"HE' S A MAN."  
You led that Fighting Irish crew, Pete Bahan, ' Their trust was not mispilaced in you, Pete Bahan.  
For three years-now you've carried on;' Your genius many games has won; We honor you for what you've done, Pete Badian.  
Admiring scribes will write about . ­ Pete Bahan. 1— — When deeds are tongues, you'll hear them shout "Pete Bahan!" Since Rock's hip-hipping you begaii You've played as only daring can. By all that's noble, -you're a man, Pete Bahan. —^r. T.  
'  THE FINISH.  
/ .  Our football team has lost no game. In East and West has gained much fame.' Although in many games outweighed. The harder odds, the harder played. '^•^w. K. (3rd. Prep.)  
THE Doviistnas.  
"You aren't very heavy; your pounds are next to nil; And all your tricks will be of no avail; The other teams have mighty.:.men; they'll wreck your* plans, your hopes tiJiey'll kill, ^ And scatter opposition like feathersu in. a gale. Their coaches are a-wily lot and-they'never miss a guess, - Their stars can cover miles and miles' of space; And so we critics and we scribes are able to confess.  
The Gold and Blue can never win the race."  
But when the season started and the team began to show,' _ How Jack and David slew the giants of old. Another song was^ chanted by the journalistic row. And wondrous tal^ of N. D. men were told.  
The celerity of Bergman, the dexterity of Gipp, The feats of Brandy, Bahan, and Malone; . The way a line of scrappy men did tear and rip and smash.  
Throughout the whole United States are known.  
"Your line is lights but powerful; your backs have speed to bum, '^ ­And you can't be.stopped biy anjrthing on earth; Your' coaches are prodigious, they know all there is to learn. -­: ' ^ _ ­.  
'  The plays you've worked have often.proved thdr . worth." •'.' '- , : So it isn|t size and press predicts that make a-winning:  ^  
;  -'. :team,.,. .---">-_•. ^"•' -•., . Conjectores never won great victories, 7 Butcourage,strengtli and skill and speed cam realize a. -.• ..-"dreain, J •,".-/.? i ~ -'~ ­ ,-" ' . . '; _ -.-'.•--; In spite of all .alleged authorities.-—wJ c.-H.  
•mm  
;^-»;r^.x­ -.-•= r  « • TV-S?­ 

i66 Ipfie Nocre dameSdKikwcKr 
The Coaches. 
Just as Captain Rockne and ex-Captain Dorais, the peerless football combination of the 1913 eleven, with their novel and perfect forward passing, nimble field running, and good general­ship, led Notre Dame to victory over tlfe strongest teams in the East, West and S9uth­west, so that same combination has developed this year a team which has impressed itself even upon adverse critics as one of the strongest in collegiate competition. The phenomenal success of the imdefeated eleven of rgig is for the most part to be'attributed to the work of Coach Rockne and Assistant Coach Dorais. 
With Rockne concentrating his efforts upon the development of the line and with Dorais as the silent general of the tackfield, the singular 

<X>ACH ROCKNE achievement of the team was inevitable. The Coaches received throughout the season the fullest confidence and heartiest co-operation of the candidates. They noted carefully the particular ability of each player and made their choice for positions accordingly. No department ' of the game was neglected, no weak spot escaped attention, no play lacked perfection. 3 Rockne has just completed his second year as mentor of the Notre Dame eleven. His long football experience and his three years of work as assistant with Coach Jesse Harper left nothing laddng.in the way of c[ualification. He faced a difficult schedule with a determination to develop a winning team. The nine unbroken victories of the season show how he succeeded. He injected into the men that indefinable N. D. spirit which resulted in every contest in a mad fight for victory- And not only oh the gridiron did Rodqie develop that efficient spirit, but also 
in the student body. He quickly succeeded in 
restoring that traditional, unanimous -enthusi­
asm which was so sadly lacking at the beginning 
of the year. 
"Gus" Dorais, who piloted 
the Notre Dame elevens in 
1910, '11, '12, and '13 gave 
this > ear, as assistant to Rockne, 
just the co-operation needed to 
achieve such amazing success. 
The backfield was gradually 
perfected by him until towards 
the end of the year its eflScient 

• teamwork was the outstanding feature in every victory. The indomitable will, tireless efforts, and brainy, direction of the coaches developed a machine which conquered teams on which every individual, player received^ the attention of two personal coaches. The cherished memories of their work will 
Asst. Coach Dorais 
remain indelibly fixed in the minds and hearts of the members of the squad, and of the sWdent body.—p. R. CONAGHAN. 
Football Facts. 

The game with Morhingside on Thanksgiving Day marked the close of Notre Dame's thirty-first football season. It was also her twenty-eighth consecutive season. The gridiron sport was inaugurated at Notre Dame back in 1887, when the Gold and Blue lost its first game to Michigan by a score of 8-0. 
The "Fighting Irish" have participated in 211 contests, winning 159, losing 36, and tying 16. 
The fact that Notre Dame has amassed a total of 5492 points against 1040 by her opponents forms a fine commentary on the chronic strength of her "pigskin jugglers." 
This year's aggregation is the tenth Notre Dame team-to go through a football, season without a defeat. . 
In 1905 ^ e administered our most crushing 

defeat, on record by tirouncing the American 
Medical Collie,by a.total of 140 points, and 
holding them scoreless. \ ' 
In 1904 Wuconsin gave us the worst drubbing 

in our gridtrphhistcvy, whien we bowed before 
her to the tune of 58^: > 
-•-•-.--/ 
-". .-->>=».'-_••• \'-r"-V ••-:" 

^,._;•^J^>^??.s;v 
^ ^ Nocre dcmieSchokisdc 
The Men of the Squad. 
BY ALFRED N. SLAGGART, 21 . 
BAHAN. 

When the Notre Dame stands proclaimed to an opposing team in a spirited yell, "He's a man— Who's a man? ^ He's a Notre Dame man," 
.they expressed the conviction that coines surely from intimate acquaintance with I^eonard . Bahan, the captain of our 1919 team. Bahan is a brilliantly versatile athlete, being a mono­

gram man in basketball and baseball as well as in foot'ball. While in preparatory school he was twice selected as all-Kentuck/ quarterback, winning at the same time similar honors as all-state forward in basketball. Notwithstanding this record, "Pete" came to Notre Dame not as an athlete but as a student. During his first year no one knew that the mechanical engineer,­whose marks were in the magna-cum-laude class, would in a short time be using' on the Notre Dame gridiron that mental poise for which he has since become so well-known in footballdom. Rockne has not had on his squad a more consist­ent player than this Bahan, arid this regularity along with his head-work made him an ideal quarterback. To have been captain of the 1919 team is an honor, and it could not have fallen on a more worthy man than Leonard Bahan. 
MADIGAN. 

Notre Dame's "fighting^Irish".center, "Slip" Madigan, has completed an envious football career. For three years this versatile athlete has been, at guard or center, the mainstay on the Notre Dame line. A swift thinker in the tense and crucial moments of the game, and a real warrior, he has teen a constant worry to every line Notre Dame opposed. Particularly notable was his brilliance against Nebraska and the Anriy. On these occasions "Slip" was con­siderably outweighed, but even Day of Nebraska and Greene of the Ariny will testify that he was noC outfought. We regret ^a t the scrappy pivot man can play no more. To Madigan, the student and the gridiron star, Notre Dame extends a sincere -tribute of gratitude.^ His achievement is recorded with those of the greatest in the annals of Notre Dame Football. 
BERGMAN. "Little Dutch" Bergman, the second of his 
- clan—^but not the last, we hope—to "carry on" for Notre Dame, will end his brilliant gridiron career with the battle against the Oregon "Aggies", in Portland, Oregon, on Christmas Day. The absence of the name Bergman^ from the Notre Dame line-up will seem oddi^- For years the supporters of the Gold and Blue have gloried in the name, while opposing teams and coaching staffs have wasted hours of worry 
.over it. " Bergie's " phantom open-field ninning, his sprint starts, down-wing rushes, and mystify­ing oif-tackle gains have placed him among the "greatest ever." Football experts and critics of every section have lauded his work, and the "Flying Dutchman" has missed unanimous All-American selection only because of injuries that have kept him out of critical games. No foot­ball man has ever held more securely the respect and adnura­tion of the students and faculty of Notre Dame. Bergman's grit, his efforts when crippled, his fight when he knew -he was marked "get him," brands the "Little Dutch" the inost memorable of the "Fighting Irish." When he stieps off the Portland field on Christmas day he will have closed his career as one of the greatest of the "big little men" football has produced. With his equally famous brother, "Big Dutch," he will be perpetuated in the annals of Notre Dame football. 
MILLER. 

When Walter Miller puts on his burst of speed and tears down the gridiron he makes the Hill Street Car at its beSt look as if it were standing still. For three years Walter has been a mainstay of the eleven and has, never failed to go forward when called upon.^ Last season he was Slackford's partner at the full­back position and at the end of the long schedule honors are equal between the two. Walter is the sum total of what is desirable in a fast^back. Add to his speed, smashing ability, and head-work the fact that he is a punter of note, and you haye the reasons for his reputation in American football. His fame will not die with his grad­uationin June, butfor many a day the students 
i68 • '©le Nocre SoineSchokwcic 
of his time will recall with delight the sensational dashes and high-soaring punts by which he distinguished himself at every opportunity. 
SLACKFORD. At the outbreak of the war "Fritz" Slackford left the halls of Notre Dame and became one of the most distinguished soldier-students. On his return this fall, his "pep" and endurance were still at fever pitch, and his football perform­ances during the season have won for him wide recognition founded on genuine merit. Men of former years will recall how he shattered an "opponent's line with his Hercdlean frame, and this year was, another illustration. When Rockne called upon him to "finish the job," Fritz always went "over the top" on his first play and hit the enemy with the momentum of a military tank. We can safely assure the big blond back that the memory of his feats on the gridiron will long be cherished by followers of the Gold and Blue. 
MALONE. 
Grover Malone, one of the most versatile Gold and Blue backs, also finishes this year. His performance in the early season was stamped _ with the same sensational brand that character­ized the phenomenal work of the "Little Wonder"^in former seasons. ^He was prevented from taking part in many of the major games of the schedule by a mean ankle injury that kept him limping badly, but as a star "Grove" has never waned in the least. Built low and massive and possessed of no mean ability in sprinting, he skirted ends at will and richocheted through "stonewall" lines, leaving a trail of tadders bdiind. He has finished his term, but his multitude of admirers will long chant-his praises. ­
KSKK. 

Soon after the Army game a writer on a New York daily, speaking of exceptionally good forward-pass receivers, said, "It is doubtful if any surpass Kirk, left end of Notre Dame." This was no news item to us who know him. Those who have been followingthe rapid develop­ment of this youngster realized long ago that in Kirk Notre Dame had a man who was following in Rockne's footsteps. Bemie's phenomenal ability in catching Gipp's passes proved a source of discouragement to rival coaches during the s^son. Try as they would, they could not organize a defense which could hold this end of ours. Already the Eastern sport-writers are' 
urging Kirk for a berth on Camp's All-American, and those who have seen him in action can see no reason why he should not have the honor. He has two more years to play. 
GiPP. 
Notre Dame" is to enjoy for another season 
the service of George Gipp, one of the best half­
backs ever developed in the 
West, if not in the whole 
country, the opinion of one 
Walter Camp to the contrary 
notwithstanding. The truly 
classic work of big George has 
been the most prominent factor 
in the success of the past 
phenomenal season. In 1916 
Gipp leaped into national notice, 

when, as Captain of the Notre Dame Freshmen in the game against Kalamazoo Normal he booted the longest drop-kick of the year. He struck a spectacular stride the follow­ing year under the tutelage of Harper, but suffered a broken leg in the game with Morning-side. This year George has provoked numerous headUne encomiums by virtue of his magnificent end-dashes and by his consistently sensational hurling of passes. Conmienting on the ability of this star back, the Purdue Exponent pays this tribute: "Gipp will be remembered as the powerful half who last year, made consistent gains against Purdue Ziehen'the elevens met on Stuart Field. This man is also one of the best forward passers in the game and must be watched if Purdue, expects to break up the aerial attack of the visitors." Camp and Eckersall will have to offer some excuses if in their selections they pass by George Gipp. 
DEGREE. 

Another veteran who bids farewell to Notre Dame football after three years of brilliant service is the "old reUable" at tackle, "Cy" Degree. He made good fromjthe scratch, win­ning his first monogram in 1916 and duplicating his stellar work.in 1917, despite the fact that he was retarded by a troublesome knee. Time after time the giant tackle,was forced to the sidelines by a revival of the old injury, but he was £dways ready for the next game with all his. characteristic grit._ Tliis year he overcame the effects of his former injury and played a fine consistoit game throughout the season. "Cy" was-4n on every play with the clinch of his deadly tackle. The Nebraska, West Point, 
'^fie Nocre domeS^^iokwcie 
' and Indiana backs slighted Degree's wing, knowing that evforts to get through him were as a rule futile. In the passing of Degree, Notre Dame loses one of her greatest defensive stars, and it will likely be several seasons before Rockne and Dorais will be able to develop the equal of this super-giant. 
BARRY. 

"Nam" Barry, the fighting little bantam who was Bahan's understudy at half-back, is by no means a new figure in Notre Dame football. Ke began in St. Edward's Hall a good decade ago, for years he starred in the Interhall games, and last season he broke into the Varsity. Barry is a light man, but his ability to run through an open field, dodging or shaking off tacklers and wiggling through any number of opponents, will make him notable in American football within the next two years. 'Nam" carries his smile as surely as he -carries the ball, and his clieery manner after being clipped stamps him ds unique among football stars. "Rock" can tell you of his determination to smash against the Cadets at West Point, and those who saw the game will never forget his all-American catch when Notre Dame was "finishing up the job." There is not a man on the team who is more deserving of the big N. D., and Barry is eligible for two more monograms before Rockne gives him his''final disch^-ge. 
PEARSON. 

" Dud" Pearson is another of Rock's big ones, who will take the train in June with an N. D. sheepskin tucked under his famous passing arm. Pearson proved his prowess two years ago by breaking into the intercollegiate limeUght and remaining there, despite the fact that he fought under the serious handicap of a badly injured shoulder. His showing in the terrific W. and J, battle of 1917 won the admiration not only of Notre Dame men but also of the disconcerted cohorts of Metzger. Much of the success of the Gold and Blue in the battle with M. A. C. this season was due to the fine work of Pearson, in fact every time "Dud" was called on to fill his position his work was extraordinary. Rockne suffers another real loss in Pearson. 
:. BRANDY. 

Two years ago it was published throughout the football world that a featherweight half­back of Notre Dame had stopped the mighty Oliphant and that this youth playing his first season in college iootball had raced through the 
-Cadets for a Avinning touchdown. The new star was Joe Brandy. In September Coach Rockne saw the wisdom of pla3ring "Li'l Joe" at the quarterback position, and throughout the fall we have been hearing echoes of two years ago. Joe went to West Point again, and, as the general of the Fighting Irish, directed the whirl­wind aerial attack which another time sent the soldiers down to defeat. Brandy's specialty ~ seems to be beating West Point. Indiana, Purdue, the Michigan Aggies, have all been outwitted by this_small man, whose invincible spirit and inside knowledge of the game rank him among the great players of Notre Dame. Joe will lead the team for another season. 
MOHARDT. John Mohardt, the Interhall man of two years ­ago, broke into the ranks of football stars last year and was one of Rockne's best bets in the= backfield. This season, however, Mohardt did not play in every game in consequence of the superabundance of backfield talent. We saw y Johnny tear away for long^runs in the Mount Union and Michigan Aggie games, but because of the sloppy field at Indianapolis he was unable to show the form which has made him a man to be reckoned with. With his abilily in tackling, his speed, and his experience, he will doubtless during the next two seasons make the nucleus for a great set of backs. 
SMITH. 

Donning a football uniform for the first time in his life, "Morrie" Smith stepped out on Cartier Field three years agoandwas immediately recognized by Coach Harper as a man of great possibilities. From that moment until the final whistle sounded this season in the Morning-side fray. Smith has shown exceptional quality. We lack adjectives to describe the smashing, "go-get'-em" action of the hefty guard from Ottawa. Of this player an Indianapolis scribe writes: "Smith is not a name to create a furore in any community, but this particular member of the Smith famUy has been making football players sit up and take notice, and he will keep his opponent hustling when Notre Dame and Indiana dash at Washington Park next Saturday. Smith weighs only one htmdred and sixty-nine pounds, but he has been holding down a forward wall position at guard with great ^a t for Coach Rockne's Irish deven.'' Smith has been awarded the position of right guard on the m3rthical all-
State team and has.been picked by the Rochester ' 
F 
'Sfie Hocre domeSdiokwtie 
170 
Herald for the same position in an all-American selection. " Morrie " is a champion whose record at Notre Dame is, to say the least, enviable. He will be graduated this year. 
TRAFTON. 
"Big George" Trafton showed his quality at Oak Park before he picked out'Notre Dame for an address. During the season past his success at pivot position has increased with each contest imtii in the Purdue game the big center startled the crowd by a zig-zagging march down the field with an intercepted pass. In this Chicago "j'^outh" Notre Dame has another Rydzewski. His work on defense has been stubborn, and as for his offensive, you may ask the backs on the Indiana and Piu-due elevens: Although badly battered up in several contests, George wore a smile as broad as that of Madigan, his partner, and his high spirits, even in the face of odds, contributed towards the consistent morale of the Western Champions. Notre Dame will watch opposing centers wonder at Trafton for two more years. 
H. ANDERSON. 
Rockne must have teen bom with the proverbial silver spoon, for he is to have'' Hunk;" Anderson • at left guard for, two more years. Anderson broke into the headlines by virtue of his sensational delivery of "football goods" at Nebraska, West Point, and Purdue. At the last place he insisted on duplicating Trafton's aerial scoop by getting in the way of a forward hurl and gliding through the entire Purdue defense for a touchdown. An aggressive battler and a brainy linesman, "Hunk" earned well his popularity among the "fans" by uniformly, giving his best. Although Anderson played on the S. A. T. C. team of last year, he still has two years of eligibility. 
E. ANDERSON. 

Very much in evidence - during every game of the season was Eddie Anderson, prominent member of the famous "Flying Circus." With his mate. Kirk, he was on the receiving end of many a successful pass. His uncanny ability in catching the swift ones from Gipp .gave him/ distinction as " one of the best ends in the West." Ed did iiot, however, confine his gridiron accom­plishments to aerial work; an exceptionally fast man, he was down under every punt and got his man. A reporter at the Anny game remarked, "Every time I see Anderson start I get ready to write 'Blank was downed in his tracks.'" laddie played last year on the S. A. 
T. C. eleven, but he still has two more years of school, and perhaps that is why Rockne and Dorais chuckle when they think of next year. 
KiLEY. 

When Kiley found that the "Aerial Twins," Kirk and E. Anderson, were competing with him for the position of end, he did not lose hope of becoming a regular but only fought the harder, and as a result he emerges from the season a monogram man. "Rog" did his share of retrieving forward passes and also became known and feared as one of the hardest and surest tacklers on the team. Few gains were made around his flank and fewer still are the men who managed to shake him oS once he had thepi. With Kiley back for next year, and the year after, the important position of end ceases to be a problem for the Coaches.^ 
DOOLEY. 

Pre-eminent on Rockne's squad of guardsmen and a fighting man in every sense of the word is big "Jim" Dooley. Of magnificent physique and fierce driving power, the big .boy from the V East has been a bulwark to the Gold and Blue. He won his monogram by dint of grinding work. Numerous times Rockne sent him into the line to relieve Smith at guard and in every instance the Massachusetts giant showed himself equal to the task. When a play through the right wing was to be stopped Dooley was there. A defensive star of first magnitude, 'Dooley should in his two remaining years fight his wav to the piitmacle of football fame. 
COUGHUN. 

Those watching the Notre Dame machine in action have marvelled at the success of our o:9f­tackle plays, which, after the forward pass, have been throughout the season our most consistent ground-gainers. This success/is greatly due to Frank Coughlin, the herculeian left tackle, who achieved his first fame three seasons ago. From the moment that he entered acn intercollegiate contest he has prbyed a most valuable line-man. Weighing wdl over two hundred pounds and capable of limitless punishment, Frank has always been a tnil^rark in the line of defense and a terror to th^ opponent. There is in him that enviable combination of' brain and Brawn, and thpiigh he rever wastes any of his energy, he goes th^ou^h a gdtke onfall twelve cylinders; 
s^:}i3mmmm^fm^mi^^^: 

'Slie Nocre dameSdMkwcic •v-,,r-£?£ 
171 

There is a prophecy in the praise accorded him by sport-writers, and this season should accord him a place" on the all-Western. Notre Dame is to enjoy the services of "Lil'l Willie" for one more season. 
SHAW. " v Shaw played well the role of "minute man" throughout the season. This husky bearcat was called on frequently to jump into tackle position, where he acquitted himself so strikingly that even the taciturn Rockne was wont to point him. out with a "That's-him!" Shaw was impenetrable. Possessed of impressive physique and a "football" disposition, he has the making of a champion. WiUing, anxious, and industrious, the big fellow should during his two remaining years develop into an all-American. At present he is the best prospect for first-string position next year. With this sure "comer" in the local camp, we predict that the Coach's" trouble at tackle will be the least of his worries. 
HAYES. After tackling the Boche for a loss Dave Hayes came back to Notre Dame and not even a hip-wound could keep this sturdy forward from "^the Hall of Fame. Two seasons ago Dave established his worth as an end and this year he has upheld the reputation of his ante-bellum days. Heavy, husky, and "hard," he played his end position with such steadiness and success that he is looked upon by pigskin followers as a veritable Gibraltar. Bom with the invincible Irish fight in his natiure, David conducts himself with such reserve and almost reproachable modesty that his popularity with the Coach and the.squad is as notable as the largeness of his heart. 
Making the Varsity squad never before this last season involved such consistently fierce fighting for places. As a result, a coterie of capable inen who would ordinarily receive monograms has been forced to be content with second honors. Mehre played a fine, determined game at center, showing always that " I'll-give-all-I've-got-Miy­way" spirit which augurs well for his future. Connors,. Sanders, vGooley, and Ambrose did exceptionally at guard. All of them faithful, ready, dogged men, they should give a.good account of themselves in the heavy schedule of next year. Vohs and Cudahy are deadly, fighting, tacklers with abundance of football sense, ready to fill the yawning gap next year. 
" Red", Donavan was out of the game during the entire season because of sickness, but will ' make things interesting next year for all other aspirants for the end places. Kasper, Walsh, Phelan, and Wynn are backfields of most promising consequence; they were edged out of regular positions on the first team because of-the wealth of big-time material. With most of the champion backs completing their inter­collegiate careers, these men will undoubtedly be seen eating up yardage for the Gold and Blue when Rockne and Dorais pitch camp for 1920. 
<•* 
N. D. Freshmen Football, 1919. 
BY E. MORRIS STARRETT, 21. 

~ N. D. Freshmen, 7; Valparaiso University, o. 
N. D. Freshmen, 36; Culver Military Academy, 7. 
N. D. Freshmen,. 36; St. Viator's College, o. 
N. D. Freshmen, 23; M. A. C. Rreshmen, o. 
N. D. Freshmen, 14; Fort Wajrne T. 61 P.. o. 
This year's Freshmen squad was the largest that ever reported on Cartier Field for the "fall drills and scrimmages with the Varsity. The first call resulted in the appearance of over sixty yearlings in uniform, and during the following weeks more than a dozen reported. The turn­outs included a wealth of fine material recruited from the preparatory and high^schools of the mid-West, while several of the squad had seen action with the Notre Dame Varsity squad; in the 
S. A. T. C. organization. There was an abund­ance of line material, which will be badly needed for the Varsity of 1920. The development of. their backfield men has been watched with interest, for this year Notre Dame loses most of the greatest backfield squad the school has had in years. 
The evident strength of the first year men made "^ it advisable to'schedule the hardest slate that any Notre Dame yearling squad has ever attempted. The games scheduled included four games on the road, and one to be played at home on Cartier Field. The game between the Freshman elevens of Michigan Agricultural College and Notre Dame was the first real home game by a. Freshman team of the University. 
Many of the games were won under smous handicaps. It was often the case that during the week days preceding a big game""Rock" would order the Freshmen tobuck the Varsity two" or three sessions, each of a solid hour or more. In these scrimmages the youngsters were knocked 
^. 
•- ---------^ 
^:-/^-£-im^ 
'Sde Hocve dame Sdickwrie 
al out, battered, crippled, and crushed, so that 
o". one or two occasions Coach Miller doubted 
whether he had eleven men in condition for his 
next trip. , ­
The total of nine straight victories annexed 
by, Rockne's Varsity eleven is scarcely more 
creditable than the record hung up by the 
Freshmen eleven representing the Notre Dame 
class of 1923. The Varsity eleven went through 
their schedule of nine games without a defeat, 
but they were heavily scored upon, whereas 
the Freshmen played a schedule of five 
hard games without a defeat and were 
scored upon only once, for one touchdown. And 
whilst they were holding all opponents scoreless 
the yearlings were setting up as a standard for 
future first-year teams a record total of 116 
points. Freshmen teams of other years have 
won most of their games and with large scores, 
but no one of them has a record equal to that of 
the present season. 
The success of the Freshmen was largely due 
to the long hours of drill and scrimmage work, 
put in night after night under the tutelage of 
Coach John Miller and his able assistant, Sher­
wood Dixon- For-years Miller has been one of 
Notre Dame's most versatile athletes. He was 
a monogram man for three years on the^ Varsity 
track and football squads, and was captain of 
the former in the spring of 1917. Under his 
direction the yearling backfield soon became the 
equal of the line, and in subsequent scrimmages 
with the Varsity hardly ever failed to register 
touchdowns that gave Rockne good excuses for 
lecturing the Varsity. It will be a backfield 
combination that the Varsity will need most in 
1920, and if the 1923 men_fumish the needed 
material it will be because of Coach Miller's 
excellent work this fall. Sherwood Dixon of the 
1917 Varsity squad, assistant coadi, gave the 
Freshmen candidates for line honors the inside 
information concerning Rockne's methods, and 
on several occasions mixed it with the" Varsity 
to bolster up his forwards. 
The first test for the Freshmen came just after the first call for candidates had been answered. -The coaches had little time in which to select the first three elevens out of the tum­oi^t of more than seventy men and to prepare ' for the fir^t battle with the Varsity. It; seemed improbable that the first-year men would be able to make any showing at allv against the 

seasoned Vanity crew which had had nearly. 
three weeks of hard work. The Freshmen were equal to the occasion, however; and before a crowd of several hundred students shocked the veterans into a realization of how weak was their defensive and offensive work. Time after time that afternoon^ Miller's men broke through and dropped Rockne's "pets" in their tracks, and when, carrying the ball the Freshmen menaced their opponents' goal four times. The Varsity effected two-touchdowns only after the hardest kind of a battle in which several of the yearling stars were carried from the field. "Ojay" Larson, center of Notre Darde's 1918 S. A. T. C., was elected to lead the Freshmen eleven, and in every game this year has proved better than in his 1918 season. _ 
The bulwark of the 1919 Freshmen eleven has been its line. Most of the games have been played on slow fields where it was up to the forwards to open holes for any possible gains. In this work Captain Larson stands out supreme. Degree and Parker have rarely let an offensive play go through them, and the former has been invaluable for his punting. Garby and Donahue are a pair of tackles that will beneeded by the Varsity of 1920. At the wings Carberry and Siefort can be relied upon to carry on the " aerial attack" for which Notre Dame is so well known. Thomas has shownhimself a clever field general at all times, often outwitting the Varsity when he was allowed the' choice of only a few plays. The work, of. Coughlin, Castner, and L)mch needs little mention. It has been evident in every game to the extent of rolling up the biggest score evermade by N. D. Freshmen. The yearlings* s^onds were in many cases only slightly less experienced or lighter than the first-string men." Voss at center, Reid and Kelly guards. Cotton and Oberst tackles, Doriot, Wilcox and GrifSn at ends, formed a forward wall that could best the Une of not a few varsities. The backfield men, McCarthy, l;og£m, Kane, Lyllis,"and Cqnley, are material to fiill the back­field ranks of the Vanity, which will be badly depleted by graduations tlus year. Notre Dame has every.right to beproud of the record made by the_ 1923 jnehl'^ 
Valpjffaiso Uiuyersity was the first victim of the N. .]b. FreshmenV Valparaiso is a newcomer in Indiana football, and ,tins year's schedule mdicates ambitibns for mid-We^^ honors. Coach Mi|l£rymen wei« hiarMy c^ chance to win, but with itbe s«isoning. ;of two wedks of _ Vanity scriQiin£^;^4w^^ ^aWe to;do.the mex-­
,Piayi^ feld,. Captain 
'^ji:^' 
'^^4^MiM3^^mm^miMf; \~;-_-:.,—'•.-:•= 

'Sfie Nocre dfome Sdiokwcicr 
ns 

Larson's inen resorted to a kicking game in which Degree and ;Kasner featured. Finally the break came when Coughlin recovered a fumbled punt on Valparaiso's twenty-five yard line, where­upon his backfield mates converted the chance into a touchdown and goal. In two other instances the yearlings marched within striking distance of the Valparaiso goal but. failed to register. Every attack of their opponents ^as stopped in mid-field, with the result that the ' final score was 7 to o for-the Freshmen. The Valparaiso papers took the defeat so much to heart as to allege hastily that several of the Notre Dame regulars had played against them and that the Notre Dame team could not properly be judged a Freshmen eleven. Their mistake is easily explained by the fact that there were Degrees and Coughlins on both the Varsity and the Freshmen squad. All the men 
' who played Valparaiso were Freshmen athletes-On the second occasion Culver Military Academy was trimmed in the only game in which the Freshmen permitted the opponent to score. Only members of the yearling squad under one hundred and seventy-five pounds -were eligible for the contest. Coughlin's touch­down from kick-oif featured the game which resulted in a score of 36 to 7. , -Wading and plunging through mud, the Fresh­men added to their list of victories by defeating St. Viator's, .36 to o, on the Friday before the Indiana game. The sloppy field did not stop the. showers of forward passes or the accuracy of the goal lacking. Castner and Coughlin, as 
usual, featured the attack and Captain -Larson smothered every attempt to puncture the line. The Freshmen next met the yearlings of the Michigan Agricultural College in' the first Freshmen game played on Cartier-field. The Michiganders were no match for.the represen­tatives of the Gold and Blue, and if Miller's men had not been so interested in the returns of the Notre Dame-West Point game the final score of 23 to o would have been doubled. Coughlin, Castner, and Captain Larson, again did most 
of the, work. 
-., While the 'Varsity was topping qif its^season with a victory.at Sioux City, the Freshmen concluded their schedule by winning, 14 to o, over the T. O. P.'s of Fort Wayne, before a large crowd. The snow-covered field discouraged open:work; .Lynch scored both touchdowns, and his .end-runs carried the ball within.scoring .distance on three .other occasions. / 
Msh Thoughts. 
U

Remember FonteiM^! ^ '. _ 
Liberty is moredesirable than peace. 
There are still numerous snakes in Ireland. 
England does not believe in sparing the rod. 
• England's policy: "Takealland give nothing." Ireland, — first in civilization and last in freedom. The British Empire is a compulsoryjeague jof nations. .. ' , A frown from America would bring England to her knees. ~ There is a place for everything and Mr.jBuU's place is in England. —"-•_, Washington did not think it necessary to warn the United States, against an alliance with England. ,^ _ :. _. England kicked ,the American colonies once 
too often, and she may do the same in the case of Ireland. 
• <-­

An Irishman loves a fair fight and a fair fighter, 
and this is bnie of^ the'reasons why he hates 
England. ' " 
The heel, of autocracy may be able to, crush the body but it can never cfush the spirit of democra<gr. 
The pronunciation-of ^an Irishman is called a brogue and is sneered at, while that o£ .an Englishman is an accent, cultivated by the so­tted best people. . '. • 
The British idea ol a joke is to get the repre^ sentatives of India and Eg]rpt to attend theT peace conference in France and then refuse jthem a passport back home. 
Bad government in Ireland costs forty dollars per capita, while good government in Belgiiuv costs about ten dollars per capita.. Where is the., advantage in being badly goyemed? ;r^ 
-i •

An Irishman .who refuses to learn the history 
of his countey or to support a movement to free-: 
the land of-his fbrefa.thers is a good Iri^mian i 
from the English standpoint. 
An .English commission has repeated, thatltiift":; British goyernment has derived 'Wi^faxe^ziiaa.T''':-: tipn. of ^$I,4Sm,oo6^ooo .frmn ;lVehmd^-^^ We.^arie• glad to le£ufn,tbat there sure;some Englisimteii .wh» are npVa&iMd^^of the factsvV J^ ^Ji 
-'...V^v-v' - --TjoTO-:BuciajS!r,':'2o^'--.; 
^&5e Nocn^ domeSchokwcic 


^ipe]|bnia§±olastic 
DISCE-QUASl-SEJ^VERVICTUn« "VIVE-QUASI-al\S^MCM?ITVlJV5 
EnttrU as Stcond-CUss MmU UaUn. 
» PmbHthed CTery Saturday durinc the Sdiool Term at the UNIVERSITY OP NOTRE DAME. 

VOL. wn . DECEMBER 6. 1919. NO. n. 
Board of Editors. 

FRANCIS FARRINGTON, '20 WILLIAM C . HAVBT, '20 ROBERT ^ . O'HARA, '20 CHARLES A. GRIMES,'20 PAUL SCOPIBLD. '20 
CORNELIUS PALMER, '20 THOMAS J. TOBIN,> 
20 

THOMAS H. BBACOM, '20 J. SiNNoTT METERS, 
20 

ALFRED N . SLAGGERT, '21 PAUL R . CONAGHAN, '20 ARTHUR3. HOPE, '20 LEO 1,. WARD, '20 WILLIAM ROBINSON, '20 JENNINGS VuRPiLLAT, '20 WALTER M. O'KEEPB, '21 M. JOSEPH TIERNEY, '21 
Notre Dame teams have always had first-class coaches and extra good players. Our persistent victories, however, are not due to these alone. 
If they were, how could The Notre Dame Way. we from mere hundreds 
oi students, produce year after year, teams superior to those of schools with enrollments of thousands? Neither can our consistent success beattributed to the "incubator system" of interhall and junior athletics, for very few of the Varsity men have teen contrib­uted by interhall training. How then, may we account for NotreDame'sconstantpre-eminence? Let us look back at this year's game with Nebraska. Thefield,a tog of mud and sawdust, thousands of Netraskans cheering on our opponents, our team outweighed fifteen pounds 
t o the man—ever3rthing pointing to our defeat, and yet Notre Dame won, not by luck or chance,-but by pla3ring the better game, due to team training, individual pluck, and to the glorious N. D. spirit, animating all. What this last is, we all should kiiow, even if we could define it but poorly. It is our most precious heritage from our Alma Mater. Undying glory to the Varsity of 1919. -They ran true to type— and what greater praise coi|ld be given? Let the spirit which bore them to victory on the gridiron biear us in like .manner through the trials of the life^into whidi we.shall be flung in a few shmt months ac a-few years at most. Let us all play the^iame in the Notre Dame w&y. -~ 
In hisre\'iewof the Anny-Notre Dame game this year a New York journalist remarked: "Old-timers were reminded of the wonderful 
wprk here in 1913 when Rockne and "Rock." Dorais threw consternation into the 
Army ranks.and beat the Cadets by just such tactics. Rockne is now head coach of the Notre Dame eleven, and took delight in his team's victory today." Well may Knute Rockne be gladdened by the victories of his prot^gfe, for they proved that the Coach, a leading exponent of advanced football tactics in 1913, has become a most efficient mentor of a. progressive game^in 1919. Not until this year, since Rockne himself was a player, has Notre Dame had an undefeated eleven, and to his coaching more than to any ojther factor is due the phenomenal success of this season. True, he was favored in the begin­ning with excellent material for a winning team, but it has been his extraordinary ability in hand­ling men that has put Notre Dame in the championship class. "Rock" is above all a student of men. His remarkable control over them is rooted in their respect for him. And in their regard for Coach Rockne the football men but reflect the attitude of the whole student body, which rejoices in the knowledge that^the man who took care of his end in a way that made him national for three seasons is now taking most creditable care of Notre Dame's end in the world of college athletics.—T. j . T. 
The staking.out of the grounds recently for the erection of Old Students' Hall marked the beginning of a new era for Notre Dame. For 
the past few years the Old Students* HalL project uppermost in the' 
minds of all Notre Dame men has been the erection of this hall, which will furnish additional room on the campus and, be headquarters for the. visiting alumni. Toward the accomplishment of this work the Alumni have devoted their e:Torts, and now the dream is becoming a reality. This new building means two things for Notre Danie: it aTords needed rooming accommodations, which .will obviate the necessity of a larjge number of men living in the dty, and marks the beginning of a new quadrangle>For years thcf"Campus" has been the hub of our college life, a life in which the men lived in close toudi and enjoyed everything ' in common. The steady growth of the University has rendered sujch a building imperative if Notre Dame is to ret^ her^d traditions. This new 
)•
-^^.';'>^-;"~T:.­
'-'r 

'Sfie Nocre domeSdiokMCKr 
175 
'-I-

hall will be erected across the road, opposite the post-office. We welcome the "Sorin Hall" of the new era and extend oiu- heartiest thanks to the Alumni and former students who, by their generosity, have made its erection possible. 
—J. s. M 
/ 

The friendships we form at college are as valuable to us as the learning we derive from books. It has been aptly said that friends can 
do more for our welfare than we our-Friendship. selves can do. The value of friendship 
caimot te over-estimated. While in school we often allow what afterwards are seen to be trivial matters to influence us against our schoolmate. We may become angry in an argument that means little to either of us. We may go too far "in haying fun with others." Any variety of small incidents may cause ill feeling. A recent argument over the payment of a twenty-five cent debt changed two friends into avowed enemies! The boy supposed to owe the money admitted that he did not care if the other fellow ceased to be his friend, and gave as a reason that the latter would never influence his life. How does he know? Fate may bring these men together in later life and make one dependent on the other for promotion or success. Yet one was willing to sell his chances of success for a quarter of a dollar. We are too uncertain about the future to incur the ill-will of anyone. Some of us are bound to be successful in life and can undoubtedly help our less fortu­nate friends. Perhaps the boy against whom you now have a grudge will be the successful one. if this should be the case, wouldn't you feel foolish if this meaningless grudge should prove a stumbling-block to you?' Cultivate friendship while at college for it will mean much to you and aid your progress after leaving school. Be ever- on guard against unintentionally making enemies and never be willing ''to sell a friend." This is the least noble of what might be oiir views on friendship.—D. J. P. 
Tulsa, Oklahoma, 

November 24, 1919. Board of Editors, THE NOTRE DAIIB SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana^ Gentlemen: 
Permit me to compliment you on the very fine SCHOLASTIC which.you are issuing. I had the brief and arduous honor of being editor-in-chief for a few months in 1904) and I havie some conception of the effort and good luck required to turn out such a creditable paper.' 
What particularly attracted my attention in the last issue was the editorial on the S. A. T. C. I had the pleasure of being a member of the "Army of the Arkansas" at Camp Pike and was in the I. C. O. T. S. when the officers' training school was demobilized after the armistice. I take a considerable interest in ,the American Legion and was elected delegate to the Minneapolis Convention. At the time of the convention, however, the Oklahoma National Guard was called out on the coal mine strike, and as I have the fortune or misfortune to hold a captain's commission in the Guard. I was unavoidably prevented from attending the Minneapolis Convention. 
These introductory remarks are not entirely for the-purpose of personal advertisement, but to give some little force to my thorough agreement with your stand relative to the S. A. T. C. As you know, the military'' chiefs of the United States Army placed much more reliance on the abilities of the boys of 18 and 19. who largely made up this organization, ^han they did on the new draft law, calling men from 31 to 45. My .observation is that they were entirely correct frota the standpoint of military efficiency, and I think it a great pity that any discrimination should be shown against any branch or arm of~the service, particularly in a place like Notre Dame, where fair play was slways the slogan and nothing counted but the merits. 
You may be interested to know that our firm has recently opened an office in New York City. I am down there every month or so, and will be delighted to see any of the old Notre Dame crowd, of course. I feel that this connection will not only be profitable, but that it will give me an opportunity to affiliate mme closely with former Notre Dame men. ' 
The old'school, of course, has the first i^ace in my heart for many reasons, lint I think the greatest thing about it is the inspiration it gives to every ambitious boy, of whatever degree or~ circumstance in life, to succeed by striving. I very well recall the motto which opp(^ing teams used to post in their training quarters: "The Irish never know when they are licked." ' 
With best wishes and regards to the edit<ns.of the SCHOLASTIC, I remain Sincerely, THOMAS D . LYONS, '04. 
Book Review.­

Hills and the Sea, by Hillaire BeUoc.. The Methnoi Company, London. Price, $2.00 ^ 
Brother Alphonsus, ialways on the look-out for inter­esting and important additions to English Catholic literature, has recently placed in the Apostidate Library a biDok of essays by .Hillaire Belloc. This man of goiius, who possesses the natural logic of the Frendiman as well as the gift, of reverie proper to the best English minds, is probably the foremost jgumajist of-the day. Those who delight in intimacy with an original mind;^ and subtle thinking will find "Hills and the Sea" a book after their own heartis. One travels into smcient lands, whose soil.is fertile with human meaiorics.-lnitl one views them tUrough eyes fresh and fandfnl as'jt child's. No mnter of English has interpreted the 
-? -- s:-j 
-:;mm
^^mm 
rii<-rW^af. 
rv 
r 
176 
'Sfie Nocn& dameSdiokwcic 
religious mystery of Pans so well as the author in the essay called " The Arena," nor has anyone looked deeper into the heart of natural things than Mr. Belloc in "The Love Stream." Some other titles are: " The Idea of a Pilgrimage," "Autumn and the Fall of Leaves," and "The Guns." The essay is, after poetry, the literary form that best repays reading. " Hills and the Sea" is one of the most remunerative collections of modem essays. 
Washington Hall Events. 

Rev. Dr. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C , former President of Notre Dame, delivered in Washing­ton Hall last Tuesday morning one of the most pleasing and helpful addresses of his career.' Speaking to the University men for the first 
"time since he took up his new duties in Wash­ington, our distinguished ex-President paid high tribute to the men who have been associated with him in the work of Catholic education, and made a plea for more active participation in public life by the men of Notre Dame. The spontaneous nature of the welcome to the former head of the University was evidenced in the introduction by Thomas^ Beacom, Presi­dent of the Senior Class and head of the Students Activities Committee. The prolonged applause of the audience showed that the admiration of the students for Father Cavanaugh has not in the least abated during his absence. They feel that in him they have one of the most genuine illustrations of the high ideal of service he urged upon the audience. Tributes to the memories of such men as Professors Stace, and Edwards, and to the work of such men as Professors McCue and Hoynes were paid by Father Cavanaugh, who declared that much of the glory of Notre Dame is Xhe. result of the devotion and zealous service of the lay professors. An ardent appeal for leadership in public life by Catholic college men formed the conclusion of the address. The speaker declared that little constructive work or legislation^ eq>ecially in Washington,.is being achieved by the men who have been educated in Catholic principles and that too many men are using their talents for mere personal gain. We hope 
Jthat we may have before the e:nd of.the.year the pleasure and benefit of numerous other addresses from Father Cavanaugh. 
*V ^Thfe evening the Orpheus Four, one of the 

^.best niale quartets oh the platform, will ^v e a concert in Washington Hall: Their appearance 
^..:^-;mm£MmM3m. 
at this time is due to the fact that they have ""already made a decidedly favorable impression on the students in a previous concert. A Aidde variety of songs, ranging from popular selections to the grand opera harmonies, may be expected, as well as delicate blending of voices. Next Wednesday evening John Kendrick Bangs, noted humorist and lecturer, will deUver in the college theatre his newest address, "Light and Shade in the Land of Valor." His conception "of a humorous lecture is to laugh with every­body and at no one, and the success he has a.ttained during the past years is evidenced by the large number of lectures he has to offer every year. Everybody can be sure of one of the best laughs of the season when they hear Mr. Bangs. The University Band will give its first concert 
-^in Washington Hall in the evening of Saturday the 13th of December and the Glee Club will appear in concert the next evening.—^F. s. F. • 
University Bulletin. 

Lost: Behind Sorin Hall a pipe with transparent stem and briar bowl. Finder please return to John Holden,* Badin Hall, and receive reward. 
Confessions will be lieard in the hall chapels every night after nightpriayer and in the base­ment chapel daily from 6:00 till 8:00 a.-m. and from 6:15 until 7:00 p. m. 
Day students are urged -to receive Holy Communion every morning during Advent. For their convenience a priest will remain in the basement [chapel until .8 :oo o'clock every morning. . . -\ 
There will be no ,mbr^ sectional meetings of the Chamber of .Commerce until after the holidays. Section! will meet Sunday, January 8th, and the other secticms will follow in order. The Chamber luncheon will be held on Saturday, December the 13th, at i :oo p. m. in the Misha­waka Hotel. Membei^ whose names are on Ilie delinquent list are not permitted to attend. The 
; speakers invited for the occasion are, Mr.jpaul 
^W.^ Brown,:oiF;St*,Loius, Editor of America,at Work, and Mx.zWm.GansDn Rose, of Cleveland, author of The Ginger Cure and of other, books on advertisiiijg ahd^btlKr kinds of business. 
^^:M-->^^iy^:r^'^S mj^is^s^f^ -'^i^^^&^HiS^iiLlf^^ 
'Sfie Nocre domeSdiokiscic 
Personals. 

—^Leo L. Tschudi (LL. M., '16) is now deputy , recorder for the city of Dubuque, Iowa.. —Columbus Conboy (B. S. A., '16) is now employed as chief designer for the Murphy 
Brothers, of Louisville, Kentucky.  
—Charles  Euart  (student  1900-03)  is  now  
Fraternal  Secretary  of  the  Catholic  Young  

Men's Association of America. —"The Church in Spanish America in the Sixteenth Century" is the title of an article 
*by Rev. John F. O'Hara, C. S. C, which appears in The Grail for the, 7th of November. —^Maximillian G. Ziebold, student of Walsh Hall 1916-17, of Waterloo, 111., was united in marriage on Nov. 19th to Miss Edyth Brickley, of Prairie de Roche, 111. The SCHOLASTIC 
extends them hearty congratulations. 
—Peter G. Dwj-er, star half-back on the 1909 and 1910 elevens, is now head of a life insurance agency in Syracuse, N.^ Y. During the war Pete was commissioned a first lieutenant and acted as athletic director in several southern camps." 
—Right Reverend Monsignor Philip O'Ryan, 
- S. T. L., rector of the Star of the Sea Parish, San Francisco, was the guest of his uncle. Reverend Timothy Maher, Cl S. C.,~at the University on Friday, November 21. The Monsignor promised to xetum to Notre Dame for alonger visit later. 
—^Rev. J. A. Langton, chaplain at 'West Point, N. Y., in a letter to Father Gallaghan, Prefect of Discipline, says the following regard­ing the Notre Dame-Army game: "Your team is bringing home victory again and believe me those boys deserved to winT I gave them a special Mass this morning and they were right there—even to receiving Our Lord. They will teli you all about the game. You tell them I saw ifall and prayed for them in the "pinches. They are the finest and cleanest bunch of little gla<^ators that I have seen on the field." . •—^Marcellus and Bernard Cremer, .students of Corby. Hall, 1916-17, are now employed in. the Russian Department of the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce, at Washing­ton, p. C. ' ' ';. 
Notre Dame undergraduates and alumni feel'just pride in the notable achievemdits of one of her sons, an officei^in the Marines/ Colonel. Hiram L. Bearrs, better known as "Hiking Hiram," who has gained widespread fame as a 
"Devil-Dog." The following excerpt from 
the Hartford Courant is a comprehensive account 
of his daring exploits: 
Colonel Hiram L. Beatrs, who commanded the' ' i02d United States Infantry, composed prindpaUy 6t 
Connecticut national guardsmen, has been put on the 
retired list by the War Department, according to word 
received here yesterday in well-informed military 
circles. 
Col. Bearrs, a marine officer, better known as " Hik­
ing Hi," was decorated eleven times for bravery and . 
recommended for brigadier-general by General John 
Pershing.. He is credited with leading the .load 
Regiment in what both French and American officuis 
considered the most daring deed performed during the 
war by a single regiment! At the St. Mihid drive, he 
broke through the V through which the Germans 
were retreating at the widest point on the western side, 
and after remaining in isolation three hours succeeded 
in taking and cutting.o£F Vigneulle, aind cutting off 
large numbers of German troops. ' 
Col. Bearrs received the sobriquet of "Hiking Hi" 
when a young officer in the Philippines. His reputation 
for bravery was well established before he went over­
seas as a major in the Sixth Marines. Among his 
decorations are the Distinguished Service Cross with 
palm, and the Croix de Guerre with palm. One of his 
exploits was the capture of a G^man lieutenant and 
two privates single-handed^ in No Man's Ltuid. 
Colonel Bearrs was in command of the io2d Infantry 
from August i, 1918, to November 1.1918, succeeding 
Colonel John H. (Machine Gun) Parker. Col.. Beans 
was relived by Colonel Douglas. Potts, who, was in 
command of the unit when it returned to this country. 
m%m 
Local News. 

—^At the meeting of Section III of the Chamber of Commerce in the Library last Monday evening, Mr. Charles Davis, '21, gave an interesting talk on "Advertising Notre Dame' which evinced the practical qualities of school spirit. Plans for the banquet of the local chamber are well advanced and Father O'Hara, has secured for the occasion speakers from St. Louis, Kansas City, and Toledo. ­
The men from New England celebrated 
the feast' of Thanksgiving. by a snmptuotu^ 
banquet at the Hotel Mishawaka. A most 
pleasant siuprisejras furnished the members by 4he arrival of Mrs. Ellen iRyan joUy and Ikfos. ^Rogerson as guests of honor. After an excellent repast, the members of the various states were called upon by Prc^dent Watos for a few/ r^nai^s. Mr.^J. C' Krippene, a veteran, of^ the Yankee Division, related a; few e^q^enences of the New England "outfit." Hany Benny 
'• % . 

r 
178 
^S5e Nocre dameSdiokwdc 
followed this number with a few artistic selec­
tions on the violin. Johin Ambrose and'* Paddy'' 
Granfield contributed some sparkling wit to 
the merriment of the evening. The event was 
followed with a talk by Mrs. Jolly, such as only 
she can give. 
—^The "Juggler" makes its bow to Notre Dame with the December issue. AJiumorous monthly, edited by three upperclassmen, Delmar Edmondson, Laurens Cook, and A. J. Moynihan, will make its appearance before the holidays. The first number will be tentative and the success of the magazine rests largely on the support given the first issue. Sparkling satire and wholesome wit will be the tone of the new magazine. 
—^The President of the University has received the following notice from thie Great Northern Sales Company with a request that it be brought to the attention of the students of the iJniversity: " Wanted:' Students who desire to profit financially during their spare time, to sell auto headlight controlling device to individuals and dealers. Very profitable terms. Apply to the Great Northern Sales Co., 305 Merchants' Bank Building^ Indian­apolis." 
—On December ist, Dr. James Bums, C. S. C , President of tiie Universify, was the guest of the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. At the meeting Mr. William Wenzel discussed "The Vacuum Tube as a Generator of Alternating Currents" and James Trant treated the subject of "Trans-Atlantic Radio Communication." After con­gratulating the speakers on their excellent papers, Dr. ^ Bums gave an enthusiastic talk to the. engineers encouraging them in their work. 
—On Monday evening, December ist, th ^ local branch of the Friends of Irish Freedom were fortunate in having as their guest Father Philip O'Donnell, of Boston. President Tobin before introducing Father O'Donnell, called upon Mrs. Ellen Ryan Jolly for a few introductory remaiks. In reviewing the achievements of the Irish-Americans'< in America history, Mrs. Jolly paid tributes to the heroism of General Meagher and Father Corby; Following Mrs.^ Jolly's ^)eech. Dr. Cornelius Hagerty, C. S. C", supplemented Mr. Tobin's . introduction of ^ Faither O'Donnell. Treating the'.gloriiK-of bdland Father O'Donnell sketched the pre­
eminence of the Irish scholars, musicians, and patriots. Father "Phil," as he is lovingly called by his parishioners, related some of his adventures on visits to Ireland.^ His whole speech evidenced an ardent devotion to the Sinn Fein cause. The Friends of Irish Freedom were privileged to meet the orator-priest after the meeting and all look forward to another visit from the distinguished guest. 
^-w. M. O'KEEFE, 20. 
mmm 
Allilettc Notes. 

NOTRE DAME, 14; MORNINGSIDE, 6. Before a large crowd of gridiron enthusiasts, w;ho were not in the least discouraged by the inclement weather, Notre Dame humbled Morn­ingside in a hotly contested game at Sioux City last Saturday, 14 to 6. Although Morningside furnished stiff opposition for Rockne's men, it may be safely said that the weather saved the lowans from a much worse defeat. Notre Dame was slow in starting, and the Cora-State eleven, taking advantage, succeeded, with a series of brilliant end dashes by Hinkley and Wenig, in scoring a touchdown in the first five minutes of play. Captain Wenig failed at the kick for the^goal. Morningside's taste of triumph was very temporary. The Gold and Blue, roused into action by the apparent ease with which the lowans had "put one over," took the aggressive. For the rest of the first quarter Morningside strove valiantly against the sinashing attacks and the end-sprints of the Gold-and-Blue backs. The quarter ended with "the ball on the enemy's twenty-yard line and the "Irish fairly, rarin' to carry on." With Gipp and his crashing aids canying the ball, the,Morningside defense was brushed aside and the ball ^n t over. Gipp added a mark with the old toe. A Sioux City reporter, inspired by the powerful drives of the Hoosier battering rains,- thus narrates the onslaught: ^'The marker failed to undaunt the visitors, who were slow in getting undet way^ In the second period the Notre Dame forwards in the back­field opened the throttle wide and ripped their way to a touchdown by some of the most sensational line-plunging ever seen on a Sioux City gridiron. Miller, Slackford, and Gipp hit the line dose to the ground and at such terrific speed that notldng short of k reinforced concrete wall would havestemmed the tide." ' Noixe Dame put a-kick well down into 
-J . ';• -".-.Jj-/ ~: 
-. --yr^ V'vC^-'.J:-:'­

'Sfie Nocre dameSdiGlatcic 
179 

Morningside's territory and the lowans, failing oh line-plunges, were forced to punt out of bounds. Captain Bahan and Gipp advanced the ball around end for substantial gains, but the Methodists braced mbmentarily and Gipp putted. By pretty dodging Hinkle)^ returned to midfield. The Iowa backs were next hurled for big losses and the ball'went over on downs. Again Momingside held and the ball went to the lowans for some more brilliant runs by Hinkley. After an exchange of punts between Wenig and Gipp, the half ended with the ball in Notre Dame territory. Then in demonstration of her championship form, Notre Dame opened up the third quarterwitha sensational aggressive. Again the Sioux City scribe, impressed by the spectacular work of Rockne's backfield com­bination, admires: "By successive end-runs, forward passes, and terrific line-smashing, the Catholics placed the pill on the one-yard line, where the Momingside line made official applica­
tion for a niche in the hall of fame by holding the visitors and causing them to lose the ball on downs." Wenig's punt from behind the goal line^was harassed by Anderson and Kirk, and the ball went out of bounds twelve yards from the Maroon line. Four smashing drives, led by big Gipp, resulted in the second interment of the pigskin behind the Momingside goal, and a point for goal was added by Gipp. Notre Dame then cut loose with an aerial bombardment that was uniformly successful, but the numerous chances to score failed to improve the fourteen points. The game ended with the ball deep in Moming­side territory. 
The Sioux City Triune, commenting upon the result of the game, suggests the esteem in which the Notre Dame eleven is held in the West. "Davis, Gantt, and Captain Wenig did not show 
,to such advantage as they have in previous encounters, but their work was just as brilliant —owing to the classy opposition they were confronted with. Davis rammed the Catholic line hard, but the Indiana stone-wsdl was simply his equal. Ted Gantt and Captmn Wenig were in stellar form, but the Catholics, polished with experience from playing" (and incidentally defeating) "the best elevens in the country.met the attack of the Methodist forwards squarely. The fact, however, that Momingside held the unbeaten Notre Dame football aggregation to two touchdotras will cause no uttle amount of international chatter in the football world." The summary: 
NOTRS DAMB ^ MOKNINGSIDS 
Kiley ' L. E. Day 
.Cottghlin L. T. Rorapaugh 
H. Anderson L. G. Steele Trafton — ^ C. Homey Smith R. G Beck Degree R. T. Marcell 
E. Anderson R. E. Wenig Brandy Q^B. Uoyd Gipp L. H. Davis Bahan R. H. Gannt MiUer F. B. Hinkley 
Substitutions: Notre Dame—Slackford for Miller; Barry for Bahan; Kirk for Kiley; Touchdowns: Notre Dame, 2; Brandy, Gipp; Moraingside—Hinkley. Goals from ^ouchdown: Gipp, 2. Momingside—none. 
—^A. N. SLAGGERT. 
* 
* * 

N. D. FRESHMEN, 14; T. O. P., o. Coach John Miller's undefeated Freshmen finished their splendid season by winning from the powerful T. O. P. eleven of Fort Wayne at Fort Wa3me on Thanksgiving Day, 14 to o. The game was played in a blinding snowstorm, which badly handicapped the yearlings whenever they tried to advance the ball by the aerial route. Immediately after the kick-o?, the game developed into a punting duel between Castner and Ralph MiUer of the opposition. The first half ended with no score and the ball in mid-field. In the third period the Freshmen opened up a fast forward-passing attack, alternating with N line bucks, l^omas made five yards through the line, thereby placing the iKtll on the T. O. P. 45-yard line; The next play developed into a long, dodging end-run by Coughlin, who was not downed until he had reached the 5-yard marker. A moment later the same man went over for the first touchdown, and Castner kicked goal. Shortly after the kick-oSF, Lynch dis­tinguished himself by picking a forward pass out of the air and running through the entire ^ Fort Wayne team for the final touchdown of the game. L>nch also kicked goal. The final quarter saw the ball see^sawmg in the middle of the,field,^and the T. O. P. outfit trying des­perately, but without success, to scon by the forward-pass route. For Fort Wayne, Chambers, MillerjDempsejr, 
and Bradley starred; for the Freslmien, Lyfich, Coughlin, and Castner were the feature men. 
N. D. FRBSHMBN T. O. P.^ 
Carberiy _ L. E- E. WilkiBs-. Garvey . L. T. . Flaherty DeGree h. G. .WMte Larson (Capt.) _ C. . ; T^gjes 
i8o ^^5e Nocn& dame Schokwcicr 
Parker , R. G. Suelzer, Merchant Donohue R. T. Smith Seifert R. E. Hilgeman Thomas Q. B. E. Miller Coughlin L. H. R. Miller Castner F. B. Chambers Lynch R. H. Dempsey,Wilkins -Bradley 
Touchdowns: Coughlin, and Lynch. Goals from Touchdown: Castner, and Lynch. Referee: Ritter; umpire: Riker.— -E. w. GOULD. 
~ 
*** CORBY HALL, 26; PENN COLLEGE, O. 

The reinforced chamjnonship eleven of Corby Hall shattered all records for travel in their Thanksgiving Day game played in Oskaloosa, Iowa, where they defeated Penn College, 26 to o, on a slippery field in zero weather. The Corbyites scored thirteen, six, and seven points respectively in the first three quarters, using the forward pass and end-runs with sure e-Tect despite the slow field. "Biff" Lee, former basetall aiid football man at Noire Dame and now coach at Penn, declared the game the best and cleanest football exhibition staged there this year. The '' Quakers did not seriously threaten Corby's goal at any time-. Mr. and Mrs. Dowling entertained Father Haggerty's squad in royal manner at the Hotel Dowling. An after-the-game feature was the edition of the college journal carrying a full story of the game for sale on the street ten minutes after the final whistle. Eighteen men made the trip: Atkinson, Ward, Conner, Miller, Conway, Murphy, Bliebemicht, Sexton, O'Hara, Kasper, and W3mn composed the first string stsuling the game. Desch, Moore, Heuther, Foley, Hart, Sharpe, and Robb all got into the play for at least a few minutes. Corby's record for the season is five ga;mes won, one tied,-and: one lost.­
*** 

BROWNSON, 20; MICHIGAN CITY HIGH, O. 
. On a field covered with snow, Brownson Hall decisively defeated the. Michigan. City High School onThuiksgivihg Day by uie neat margin of 26-0.- The excelidit display of teamwork by the "Dormitory Bo5rs'',~was a credit to Coach Sanders, and it is difficult to understand the poor showing of Jbis men in.the interhaU contests! All points, induding. three touchdowns and a safety, ware scored, within the first two periods, after which numerous subs^tutions were made.~ Heimann and De Corps formed an irresbtible offcaisive, the folder tearing through th§ Mich­igan-line time and againdTor good gains.; The^ defensive work of Aviles and Boley merited faVor-. 
able comment. The removal of Lou Walsh early in the game, the result of a broken shoulder,, was the only impleasant incident of the contest. Touchdowns were scored by Smith, Heimann, and Boley.—^M. J. T. 
* 
* * 

INTERH ALL GAMES. With the Varsity and Freshmen teams 
. upholding the reputation of Notre Dame in outside competition, it remained for the Inter­haU League to complete the football atmosphere which pervaded the campus. Rivalry among the hall teams could not have been more intense. The players entered into the games with the fighting spirit so characteristic of Notre. Dame football warriors. The championship honors go to Corby Hall, whict defeated Walsh last Sunday by the score of 12 to 6. "Bill" Hayes, the fleet dash-man from the East, did most of the work for the "hall of victrolas," while the playing of "Red" Ward, Martin, Desch, and and Bliebemicht was the feature of Father Haggerty's men. The only seriouis injuries, of the year occurred in this game, in which Martin, stellar guard, suffered a compound fracture of his ankle. 
The invincible Sorin squad triumphed over Brownson last Sunday in a 13-to-o victory. The battering line-pltmges and long end-runs of the elusive Miles and the efficient work of Captain Murphy, Hallet, and L^ y stood out promineiitly in the Sorin no-substitute teain. Heiman, Breeh, and Hoen did the special work for Brownson. Shea and Nixon are the stars on the Badin Hall team, which also put up a hard fight for the championship honors. 
Many who saw the Sorin-Brownson game are confident that Sorin-has the best team in the league and ian effort is now being made for the arrangement of another game between Sorin and Corby.—^P.R.C.' -7 
The following icbinmutiication was recently received from an alumnus oi Brooklyn:; " Here is another straw for the .'Irish' controversy recently carried on in the columns of tiie SCHOLASTIC. I«opks as ^^ the Iri ^ are. 'breaking the he ^ of the worid' as to fdotbaU." Th^ "straw" in'question isfrom the pen of Grant-land Rice, the noted isfmirt-writer,. and hi follows: "Wi& Noifre^Dame^^^s^ Army' team.fand Georgetown TO Navy, why pan Enigiand for, fier inaWlity to settle the Irish;;qu^tidn?"^^ Z . i ^ . 
.-fr."" 
Mz&i-c^'-: 

'^fte Hocre ^ome Sehoiogcie iS i 
Press Comments on Notre Dame Football. 
Followers of the gridiron sport in the Nebraska camp need offer no apologies for the Comhuskers, who bowed in defeat to one of the cleverest forward-passing teams in college football, east or w^est.—(From the Lincoln State Journal, for Sunday, Oct. 19th.) 
*** 

Who was it said the little Irish Brandy would not get into the game because of his injuries? However, he was in there Saturday with a patch over one eye directing the plays of his team. . . . Indiana's football team went down.to defeat Saturday at the hands of the magnificent Notre Dame combination, by a i6 to 3 count. Despite the handicap of playing on a field which was in most places three inches deep in mud and water, the flashy Irish backfield was able to make long and consistent gains by forward passes and end runs, and the opposing line baffled the Crimson offense at almost ' every stage of the contest. Indiana was not outfought, " but was outclassed.... The work of Gipp and Bergman featured the contest throughout for Notre Dame. Indeed, the Irish backfield is one of the speediest and most brilliant ever seen on a Hoosier gridiron. .. . Notre Dame practically cinched the state title for 1919 by its victory over Indiana, for there is little.doubt but that Purdue will also fall before the versatile Catholic -offensive. Notre Dame is now being heralded as one of the greatest grid combinations in the country, and ', is being touted to defeat West .Point next Saturday. 
—(From the Indiana Daily Student, November 4.) 
• % 

A bewildering aerial attack aided and abetted by sensational end-runs, off-tackle smashes and line-plunges in the second quarter by Gipp, Bergman, and Slackford threw consternation into the Crimson camp yesteyday afternoon at Washington Park, and the Notre Dame gridders pushed over a victory on Indiana, .-jt6 io 3. A field which was ankle deep in mud and water in spots was anything but conducive to sensational football, but Bergman and Gipp and the entire Notre Dame squad put up a football battle hard to compete with. To the wet and sloppy condition of the field can Indiana attribute its success in holding the score close. The field was ih such a condition that Bergman, considered-the flashiest backfield man in the West, was unable to get his stride, except in a few instances. He. used the "come-back" play with such success he was" able to wiggle and squirm through the Indiana team-for gains of from ten to thirty yards. It was his sensational dashes which placed the ball in scoring territory several times while he was in the contest. 
George Gipp ably assisted. Bergman in the Irish drive toward the Indiana goal line.—(From the Indian­apolis 5tor,. Simday, November 2.) ' , 
**• Too much credit cannot be given Notre Dame for the position it gives Hoosier land in the sun on the 
• gridiron map.^ Season in and.season out this institution 
/ throws forth one of the greatest football machines in the.country. How they do it while other Hoosier institutions fail to come up to the standards set by the Irish is a mooted question.-;. Still the fact stands that the Irish team is far and away^ better than any other 
Hoosier eleven this season,—that is, if dope can be 
depended upon just a trifle. The Irish have yet to 
tackle Purdue, but it is hardly to be expected that the 
Boilermakers can hold the wonderful backfield Coach 
Rockne has to throw at opposing teams this season. 
A team with such a backfield as Notre Dame possesses 
can hope to make a creditable showing against the country's best. Next Saturday at West Point the Irish team will have a chance to show just how strong it is against a team that can be considered as represen­tative of_the East. To win that game Rockne will be forced to show all his tricks, all his gridiron knowledge, and more football than his eleven has been wont to show this season The Notre Dame line, although a bit light, has a fight and an aggressiveness that bodes evil for opposing linemen. Getting the jump on the other fellow is a big asset to a lineman. These men Coach Rockne has workingforhimhaveability Their drive, especially that of Madigan, H. Anderson, "•Coughlin, Degree, and Smith, opened great gaps in the Indiana defense, but the field was such that the Notre Dame backs could not get started in the right direction. 
In Bergman and Gipp, Notre Dame has two of the 
•greatest backfield men in the West. Bergman is like chained lightning. He is little, but runs the ball with dazzling speed., He never stops until he hits the ground. He resembled an eel Saturday by the manner in which . he slipped from the grasp of would-be Indiana tacklers. Gipp does not play such a dashing game as does Bergman, but he gets there just the same. He has a wizard toe, can hurl-the ball o^n forward passes'with unerring accuracy. He can run the ends or smash the line off tackle for steadygains. 
Alongside of these two sterling players, Rockne has-Bahan and Slackford. Both of these men are well above the ordinary. Both are steady and have foot­ball sense. Besides"" these backs he has several other substitute backs weU^ble to hold their end of the play whenever they are called upon; Barry and Bahan are ground-gainers, while the latter is a good field general and calls his signals with a commanding voice. He puts much pep and fight into his teain. 
The Irish wing men are wonderful performers. Either Kirk or Anderson can snag the pill out of the air on forward passes with great skill. Both are fast and wonderful defensivd men. It was seldom in Saturday's game that either was boxed. They broke up what little interference Indiana displayed and got through to get their man time after time. Any way you look at it, the entire West will be pulling for the Irish against the Army, for this section holds considerable pride in its football teams. Notre Dame will carry with it the well wishes of some of its bitterest opponents on the gridiron. This contest will be one of the big intersec-­tional clashes- of the season and will be one of the biggest games on the gridiron card for Saturday.­—(From the Indianapolis Star, November.3.) 
At West Point the Army will play the sixth game with Notre Dame. The Indiana eleven holds the upper hand in the series by three to two, and we look for.it to make the count four to two. Notre Dame 'this season has shown that same old Notre Dame ability to work the (^rward pass. Jesse Harper, who'coached 
ri. ­
l82 ^Kfie Nocre dame ^diokwcicr 
the Hoosiers in previous years, has given way to Rockne and Dorais, who as players introduced the Cadets to the forward pass in 1913 with as bad a beating as the Army ever got. Notre Dame has an experienced line and a strong backfield and an attack which is. much further advanced, than the Army's.—(By Daniels, in the New York Sun, on Nov..7.) 
*** 

The squad that Coach Rockne, former All-American end, is bringing East with him is every bit as husky as their Army rivals. Bergman, at right halfback, is the star of the aggregation. Against Nebraska a couple of weeks ago he received the ball on a double pass on his own ten-yard line and ran through the entire Nebraska team for a touchdown. In all of Notre Dame's other contests Bergman has been the big factor in their scoring. Bahan at quarter is a good field general and a capable thrower of the forward pass. It is at this sort of game that the Westemeis excel. A majority of their points to date have been tallied via the overhead route. 
The rush line which Notre Dame will present is not as heavy as the one that Coach Daly will muster. Coughlin at left tackle is the only forward who tips the beam at more than two hundred pounds. Madigan and Smith, center and right guard, weigh less than 160 pounds each. H. Anderson, at the other guard, and Degree, at right tackle are the next heaviest. The former weighs 174 pounds while Degree is credited with a weight of 182. Kirk and £. Anderson, at the ends, weigh" 163 pounds each. However, they are a fast, . hard-playing pair. Both are good receivers of the forward pass. Notre Dame has compiled a record of 157 points to their opponents' 19. Victories over Kalamazoo, Mt. Union, Western Normal, Nebraska and Indiana are credited to them. They are a formid­able aggregation.—(By Toin Thorp, in the New York Evening Journal, November 7.) -_ 
With the score 9 to o in favor of the Army, du2 to a touchdown by McQuarrie in the first period and his goal from placement in the first part of the second period, the Westerners started. Notre Dame had just received tha kick-off, following the second Army score, and about five minutes remained of the period. The Notre Dame players acted like a bunch of wild catsl They jumped about and slapped their little star quarterback, Joe Brandy, who weighs but 135 pounds. They hadn't expected this Army onslaught and they beseeched Brandy to open up. "Let's go, Joe. Let's go." And Joe went. He opened up with an assortment of forward passes with Kirk, regarded as the greatest forward pass grabber, on the receiving end. Kirk's^ specialty is pjuddng the flying oval from under the very noses of-liis opponents while on the dead run. In almost less time than it takes to relate it Notre D|ime had scored a touchdown and the half ended. 
" We'U get that other touchdown in the next half," the-visitors snapped out as they left, the field. And they did. They got the second soon after the third period began. And in the final period the light forwards. of the visitors played the C^ets to a standstill, which was.spme achievement in itsdf... . . Danid kicked off to MSUer, who had replaced Sactdord in the. second 
half, and this boy, who is known as the "kid with the rubber legs," having been an acrobat in a circus at one time, brought the ball to the 40-yard line. 
(From the New York Tribune, Nov. 8.) — 

Notre Dame, always a fast, aggressive eleven, beat the Army today, 12 to 9, in one of the most interesting and hardest-fought-games ever staged on the Plains. The Westerners flashed their usual repertoire of air­line plays, and when other methods of attack failed them they made these overhead tosses work to excellent advantage. . . . Bahan and Gipp, two powerful back­field men, figured prominently in all the visitors' forward pass play. Both these huskies tossed with unerring accuracy, and Bahan was-on the receiving end most of the time. Occasionally E. Anderson got clear, and a long toss found him under the ball with outstretched 
• arms. . .. The Westerners probably launched fifteen or twenty of these overhead plays and all except four or five were successful. Long and short passes, wee ones, just over the line of scrimmage, were frequencly resorted to, and they threatened the Cadets to such an extent that old-timers were reminded of the wonderful work here in 1913 when Dorais and Rockne threw consternation into the Army ranks and beat the Cadets by just such tactics. . . . Rockne, by the way, is head coach of the Notre Dame eleven and took delight in his team's victory today.—(From the New York 
Times, Nov. 8.) 
Notre Dame, once more exhibiting an excellence with the forward pass, which attack has more than once carried them to victory over the Army, beat the West Pointers today, 12 to 9, in an interesting and hard-fought game. The Hoosiers, except for the initial period, outplayed the Cadets. . . . The Westerners flashed a pair of excellent wing men in E. Anderson and Kirk. ^ Degree's punting was also of high grade.—(From the New York Herald, Nov. 8.) 
' •** 

The Army lost to Notre Dame, 9 to 12, today in a close and hard-fought game. The Westerners, except for the opening period, played better than the soldiers. Notre Dame's air line attack ultimately proved to be" 
-the Army's undoing. Coming from behind with th'escore 9 to o in the Army's favor, the visitors launched over­head plays for long and short tosses, which upset the Cadets in the second period. .. . Gipp, Brandy, E. Anderson, and Bahan featured in Notre Dame's game. —(From the Buffalo Express, Nov. 9.) 
*** 

The Notre Dame deven vanquished the West Point team here today by the score of 12 to 9. It-was a case of open style oLfootball triumphing, over the old, line-^ smashing game. -Notre Dame's forward pass tactics 
_ proved too much, for the Soldiers and turned victory into defeat. Vainly did the Army men shift their defensiye foliations in an attempt to stop the long passes which the Westerners repeatedly completed, carrying the ball down the field for gains of many yards.. These took the heart otit of the Army followers and brought the Notre Dame, cohorts to their feet in delight. . .1. Degree, the-Notre Dame'iicker, oiit­punted McQuanie time after time during the second 
•:.' J^^^5" 

^fie Nociv dame SdiolatGiGr 
quarter, but later in the game, with the wind at his back, the Army halfback began getting his kicks off in better shape, and the advantage which the Western team had gained was lost During the rest of the third quarter they punted out of danger whenever their goal was threatened and the long spirals from Degree's boot kept the Army well in the center of the field. The Notre Dame ends got down under each kick in short time and repeatedly nailed the Army backs with almost no gain:—(From the New York Sun, Nov. 9.) 
* _ * * — 

Notre Dame is one of the speediest teams seen in these parts this year. And the big reason for its swift attack is the fact that it uses the direct pass in most of its formations. Brandy hardly utters his signals^ before the backs are in motion—^which means that Madigan, the center, must be pretty good to make as many passes as he does in a game without a slip. There are several good forward pass receivers among the colleges this year, but it is doubtful if any of them surpass Kirk, left end of Notre Dame, for catching passes. He caught no less than five against the Army Sattu'day, all netting substantial gains. One of his catches brought the ball thirty-three yards to the Army 7-yard line, whence the Westerners went over for their first touchdown. The passes of^the Hoosiers succeed largely because they are thrown over the center of the line to Kirk or a back who cuts in. Another runner goes ahead and picks out the defensive half, leaving the runners a clear field down the counter lane, a most clever play on the whole, which succeeds in the majority of attempts.—(Prom the New York Tribune, Monday, Nov. 9.) 
"Butch" Scanlon, Purdue Coach, says, "Bergman is a second Harley, but has been having trouble with an injury to his knee and the standing at the-end of the game depends on how long Bergman will last.". . . Be­cause of this record our team expects to. be given the hardest battle of the year and are especially anxious for a victory over the fighting Irish as such an accomplish­ment would win us national recognition.... In Gipp and Bergman the Catholics have two of the best half­backs in America. " Bergman is known for his fleetness and ability to get away in the~ open field and can be counted on to give the opponents much worry. Gipp will be remembered as the powerful half who last year made consistent and long gains against Purdue when the elevens met on Stuart Field. This man is also one of the best forward passers in the game.—(From the Purdue Exponent, Saturday, Nov. 22.) 
•V ' ­Notre Dame disposed of Purdue in a smashing, ex<^ting 33-13 game, and with the elimination of Ohio State by Illinois, remains the only undefeated team in the West, with a mighty good daim to the Westam title... . The Notre Dame-Purdue game was marked by the kind of sportsmanship that should stamp eyery contest. Time after time members of one team, would hurry to the £ud of an opponent who was laid.out; the Purdue-stands ceased cheering when Notre Dame had the ball in front of the Purdue cheering section so that 
the signals could be heard; and when Birk was hurt, the Notre Dame stands gave him a big yell..., When you come to the end of a perfect pass it's an easy bet that you'll find Bergman or Kirk at the receiving end. In fact the great triple-pass combination, Berginan to Gipp to Kirk, took one back to the basebaU dajrs of the famous old "Tinker to Evers to Chance;" both were deadly in effectiveness and mighty unpopular with the other fellow.—(Prom the Indianapolis News, Monday, Nov. 24.) 
•% 

Yes, we have got to "hand it" to Notre Dame. Those were some forward passes yesterday... . After holding Notre Dame scoreless while they put across a touchdown and kicked goal in the first period, the Boilermakers finally went down under the wonderful passing offensive of the Irish and were defeated 33-13 on Stuart field yesterday afternoon in a game which gave Notre Dame the state championship. The Catholics were helpless to score around the Purdue ends or through the old Gold and Black forward wall, but their 
•passing game, which swept the Purdue team off its feet at times, was one of the most perfect that has been witnessed on the Purdue field in several years. The combinations Bergman to Kirk and Gipp to Kirk wer^ those that rarely failed, and all the points scored by the Notre Dame team were a direct result of their work. —(From The Purdue Exponent, for Sunday, Nov. 23.) 
*** . 

The four finest ends in the state tiys year were 
undoubtedly the Notre Dame and Wabash pairs. 
Kirk is undoubtedly the best forward pass receiving end 
in the country. . . . Halfbacks are^ galore, plunging 
backs; backs that wiggled and backs that just made 
touchdowns, but out of the lot emerge two wonders, 
the great Notre Dame pair, Gipp and Bergman. No 
man in the country throws a better pass than Gipp, and 
he is no slouch of a ground gainer either. Bergman is 
another Harley. Nuff said.—(Prom the Indianapolis 
News, Monday, Nov. 24.) 
**• 

Six years ago Knute K. Rockne was an end and 
captain of the ^otre Dame football team, and' about 
the best lineman the^Gold and Blue ever had. With 
Dorais at quarter and Rockne at end the Notre Dame 
attack was irresistible. ~When Jesse Harper quit foot­
ball and returned to business life, he left a sorry, gap for 
local officials to fill. Harper's principles had won much 
fame for Notre Dame and his system fitted O. K. 
They needed some one to jam into Harper's berth, 
and one whohad taken training under Harper himself 
was naturally preferred. Along toddled Rockne and 
they signed him at once. "Rock" took a tough 
baptism last year, due to the chaotic'state of athletics 
on account of the war, but he nevierthdess turned out 
a-fast outfit. --~ 
That one year was enough to tip him off on a lot of 
the finer intricacies of coaching, and since that'time 
he has been as wise as the rest of them.' He hasn't yet 
ascended to the plane where he thinks he knows it all; 
but he commands the respect of every man on the 
squad, and well he may, for Notre Dame is coming 
through in great shape this fall, and largdy through 
Rockne's capable direction. ~ 
"Rock" coaches his men the way he used to iday, 
and he spends a lot of time with his line showing them 
letiQ Hcfcre (bameSdKkistic 
what to do by example. The snowy-headed mentor gets down-and demonstrates by action what he wants his men to do against their opponents, and he's a sure success of what's what in tactics.—(By Archie Ward, in the Indianapolis Star, Nov. i.) 
** 
* 
Again it is the Notre Dame Irish who have put the 
West on the football map. . . . Notre Dame followers 
will look back to the 1919 season as one of the greatest 
an Irish team ever went through with. .. . A victory 
over Notre Dame would have been the greatest 
achievement a Purdue team has done in eight.years.... 
But trying forward passes on Notre Dame is nigh on to 
disastrous at any stage of the game. .. . So alert and 
active are the men of Rockne at handling the ball an 
opposing team alwaj's runs a dangerous chance when 
it shoots the oval into the air.-... It is doubtful if there 
is a team in the country that can compete with the 
Irish in this method of advancing*the ball. . . . Week 
after week the Purdue team has been drilled in breaking 
up this method of attack but it just couldn't be done 
George Gipp, one of the most versatile players in the 
West, shot the oval with such unerring accuracy to his 
eligible men Purdue couldn't cover. It looked at times 
as if it was an impossibility for Gipp to find a man 
loose, and some blue-jerseyed Irishman would leap 
from nowhere to grab the oval. Such accurate handling 
of the ball was almost beyond conception.—(By 
John W. Head, in the In^dianapolis Slar, Monday, 
Nov. 24.) 
*** 
With Notxe Dame suppressing the Army team and 
Georgetown conquering the Navy, why pan England for her inability to settle the Irish question? -(From the New York Tribune, Nov. 18.) ' 
*** 
An exchange prints this lineup, all founded on fact: Church, Harvard; Pope, Indiana; Bliss, Stevens; Christian, Williams; Kirk, Notre Dame; Pope, Ham­ilton; Abbott, Syracuse; Piyor, Tufts; Pugh, Swarth­more; Churchman, Virginia; Toogood, Hayerford, —Chicago American. 
** * 
It is rarely given to a line player to star for his team, but in the entire array of Notre Dame fighters there is no more brilliant performer than "Slip" Madigan, pivot man of the Gold and Blue eleven. To this husky center can Notre Dame give credit in no small degree that opposing teams have failed to crumble the line. He is the athdte who took care of Green, the Army center, touted as an all-American player, and, in short, he is perhaps the most consistent performer on the Notre Dame first line defense. 

Madigan, for all his brilliant play this season, has been constantly outweighed by his opponents. He carries only 157 pounds and he ranks as one of the lightest centers'in the "grid" annals of the Gold and Blue. But Madigan has proved that a ^superiority in avoirdupois is the least of the advantages in a real foot­ball struggle; \ and he has likewise proved that the bigger they come the harder they fall. Particularly did he prove this in the game at West Point, where he was opposed by a man who tipped the team at well over the 200 mark. .. . . "Hunk" Anderson~and, Maurice Smith, the guards, are tried veterans, with a list of 
victims not less worthy than those of Madigan. They 
have earned their positions through a season's battles 
with a bunch of ambitious rivals that made the final 
selection a matter of doubt right up to the minute of the 
kick-off of the Kalamazoo game. . . . Kirk and E. 
Anderson, the Notre Dame ends, carry with them the 
confidence of the entire student body. No more fleet 
or gifted wing men have worn the Gold and Blue in 

several seasons. Kirk's ability in grabbing passes has 
been a fea;ture of every game played by Rockne's men 
this fall.—(By Archie Ward, in the South Bend Tribune, 
for Wednesday, Nov. 19). 
Negotiations between Coach Rockne of Notre Dame and Andy Smith of th^ University of California for a post-season game on the coast have been opened. Last season the game was practically arranged, but when both teams lost so many star players who were called into service, the contest was called off. If Notre Dame goes west it can do so as a representative team of this section. The Hoosier eleven has not lost a game this season and a^it only has to play the Michigan Aggies, Purdue, and ^orningside colleges, there is little likeli­hood of its meeting with a defeat. Notre' Dame has beaten Nebraska, Indiana, and the Army, and is as strong an aggregation as there is in the West.—(By Walter Eckersall in the Chicago Tribune of Nov. 11.) 
*% 

Where are the giants of yesteryear? Mclnerny, Bachman,Keefe, Feeney,Lathrop, Fitzgerald, Rydzew­ski and the rest. Many of them will be in Indianapolis Saturday for the Notre Dame-Indiana game, but one we know will not be there—Big Mac, the cheerful, the hard-fighting, the unafraid. He lies out there on the old western front, and we know that in his last fight against the Hun he was the same old cheerful, hard-fighting, daring Mac that went through so many gridiron battles for Notre Dame. But the spirit of Big Mac and of all the others is the spirit of the little Notre Dame team of 1919. .. . It is a big task this "little" team has cut out for it—to carry on the work oh its Ifirger precedessors. But the size of the job hasn't got these boys bluffed any more than the monster Nebraska line, which they outplayed. 
"If the line can hold, the backfield will'ramble.!' This seems to be-the theory of Rockne's campaign this year. In the backfield there is enough material to makp a track team. There are backs that sprint,~T}acks that buck; backs that worm their way throtigh a broken field, in fact, some backfield. 
At the ends there are Kirk and Anderson, who did the impossible when they stopped Paddy DriscoU, former Northwestern star the time Notre Dame played the Great Lakes team Is^t year, and this season no opposing team has put over^a successful end run against this combination.. .. Dudley. Pearson, who plays sub-quarter, has charge of tickets for the game Saturday, paints the banners for the pee-rade, hires the special trains, is manager of the ^udents' special, knows every-• thing about everything, answers all questions about the game and attends classes., Outside of this he has all his spare time to do as he-pleases.—(By ..Thomas A. Hendricks, in the Indianapolis-J\r«oj, Friday, Oct. i.) 
the Houn? 5aine Scholasdc A6Cerci8einent» 


Yellow Taxi Cab and Transfer Co. 
Main 0£Bce. Cor. Micb. and Colfax Ave. 
BELL 5X4 HOME 55»5 
CAB AND BAGGAGE SERVICB 

One or two passengers, . . -fi.oo Each additional passenger, ~ --.50 Special trip for Baggage, ---$1.00 Each additional Trunk, ----• 50 Suit Case, -­
•«5 
CARS FOR ALL OCCASIONS 

7-passenger cars for parties, touring, etc. 
RATES REASONABLE 
GAPTo JACK 
cJ Low Conh­
\Jdrtable Coh lar qfwide reputation 
OLDEST BRAND M AMERICA 
UMTCO •MIRT A OOUJM OOl. TNOT. M. T. 
r?i<iiiim I tf 
sow IT J 
MAXADIBRCO. SOUTH BBHD, Ollk 


The Oliver Hotel 
European I^an 
BEST IN THE WEST 

300 Rooms Fireproof 
THIS HOTEL OPERATES PERFECTLY APPOINTED 
CAFES , CIGAR AND NEWS STAND 
BILLARD HALL BAKE SHOP BARBER SHOP 

HAIR DRESSING AND MANICURING PARLORS 
SELF SERVICE DINING ROOM OPEN DAY AND NIGHT Waiter service after 9 o'clock P. M-if desired: 

Auditorium Hotel 
CHICAGO 

On the comer of Michigan Boule­vard and Gxigress Street, in the theatre and business center. Special attention shown students and altmini of Notre Dame. 
JOHN J. CALVCY, MaiHuer 
the NouTe 5)ame Scholastic AfiCepcisemenCs 
No. 126 
The First National Bank 
Soudi Bend, Indiana (Oliver Hotd^Building) 
Capital, $ 105,000 Surplusand Profit, $ 145.000 
A. L. HUBBARD, President. 
J. M. STUDEBAKER. JR.. Vice-Prest. 
C. L. ZIGLER, Cashier. 
C. J. WHITMER, Ass't Cashier. ­
SAFETY DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT AT REASONABLE PRICES 
WE ISSUB FOREIGN EXCHANGE AT LOWEST MARKET RATES AND LETTERS OF CREDIT PAYABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD ­
TRY OUR TRAVELER'S CHEQUES 
Spalding 


Foot Ball Goods 
BAILS, GOALS, GUARDS, PADS^ SHOES, ETC In aJdilion of course— Spalding Equipment fi>r every other Athletic Sport 
SEND FOR CATJCLOGUE 
A.aSPALDING & BROS. 
SIX STATE STKEBT,'cmCA60 

• • •• •• •• : . • 
Mechanics Tools Draughtman's Tools 

G« E* Meyer & Son 
Hardware Merchants 
115 r 117 West JeflFerson Boulevard 
(Opposite Postoffice) , 
Fine Cutlery SOUTH BBNO, IND. 

,^ : i . H 


The Dome 
Official Portrait Photographer 


McDonald 
2XZ Soath Main St c «•. » ^ T ^ Om. PMt ofliM. oOttui owMf ino. 
Ideal Latsndry Company 
"Get the Ideal Habir 
Three coliections a week at Notre Dame. Leave your pack­: ^^ kges atthe . 
Notre Daime News Stand 


Cox Sons i& Vming 
73 Madison Ave., New York 
CAPS AND GOWNS 

Silk Faculty Gowns and Hoods. Lotrest Prices. Best Workmanship. 
- Gowns for Judiciary, Ptdpit and Chcrir 
Schuler, Kling^l & Co. 


Qt^ens Ni^tioM Bank 
WhoUaaii Fruit» and Produce 
112-14 W. Jeffeison BlTd.~ 1 South Bend, Ind. 
!^(^~'yr 
• .)'•.. 
'••J ' •:"•'. 
•' ^ ''• ' V 

m'h-r<^-:'^:'-'•••'•• 
m|;^vvv>?v^X^':«:'JrX«;-;C'^«?«^v-^vv^v-^''5-KSf%X^?<?'^^^ 
ccocococcocooooc 


^t M^xv'si CoUeae antr 
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
g
E 
« 
I Cm •H 

• CO i ;. Cymnaiium Academy .Church Colleie 
S' 

o Recognition by the Indiana State Board of Education ^ 
I® 

College^—Standard; Normal Department—Accredited; Academy (High School)—G)mmi88ioned; Credits accepted by the leading Universities *
£ 

An institution where your daughter is assured of all the benefits of an exclusive school, while surrounded with all the comforts and prote'ction of home life. St. Mary's is devoted to the development of the highest type of womanhood in the girls entrusted to her care. 
Many features of this school of high ideals, its broad campus and well equipped commodious buildings, cannot be touched upon in the limited 
space of this announcement. The President, therefore, cordially invites conespondence from parents having daughters to educate, and will take 
pleasure in mailing, an illustrated catalog and descriptive literature. Address the President. 
ST. MARY'S COLLEGE AND ACADEMY 
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY NOTRE DAME P.O.. INDIANA 
P-vvvvvvvvvvv-.vvvvvvvvv'--V'=?=SSSS\SXSSV^^^ 
'a 
I 
/>; 
\ 
I 
\ 
"."' ,'-:'\ 
MI•;-^-^ssssss^^s^aa!:fe^aSvv^^^ H 


Enil)er£tt|* of jl^tre Bwm 
NOTRE DAME. INDIANA 
College ot ^bAH anb ttttttsL Departments of Ancient Classics, Modem Literature, History, Political Economy, Sociology, Domestic Commerce, Foreign Commerce, Journalism, Library Science. 
College of Science. 
Departments <^ Chemistry, Physics, Bi­
ology, Pharmacy, Agriculture. 
College of jard^ttectnre. Departments <^ Constructiim, Design. 
^IreiNiratDtp MiooL Variant Cooises. 
CoQege of Ctigineenng. Dqnrtmdits of Ci\'il Elngmeenng, Me­chanical Engineering, Ellectrical Engin­eering,. Chemical Elngbeering, Mining Engmeermg, Industrial Engbeering. 
Cidlege of lotD. 
College of :f ine iSrttf. 
D^Mutments of Artistic Drawing, Paint­
bg. Cartooning, Instrumental Music, 
I
Vocal Music.' 
{ 
V 
V 
V 
^tCMuntlNl. 
For Young Boys. 
J 
It 

Notre Dame is recognized by all educators, by die press and by the public ; 
as a college whose woric is of die same grade as diat of the most highly endowed 
coU^es or the best state imivorataes. Its atmospheie b^ stron^y Catholic and no 
young man who has evor attmded die University <^ Nqtie Dame can escape its i 
influence in after life. ­
i 

The discqJine is pattfnal, and aims at givingyoungmoi die fullest liberty con-, sistant with earnest stud^ and manly Christian character. Roc»ns at reasonable rates. Catalogue sent on af>plicati(»L 
I 

Address: 
THE REGISTRAR 
NOTRE DAME. INDIANA 
c­Ei-^SSSSSSSSSS>>SSSSVV'>vvvvvvvvvvvv^ E3 
•-^'r^^mm^^:­





) 
1 Ql~IMIMIMIMIMIMIMIMIMIIQJ]MMJMIMJMIMIMIMIM!MIM!MJM!M!M!IMIMJMIMIWJMIM 
i. 
I 
i 
I
:>-­
~-­
Univer~'ity o/Notre Dame Football Review 

I 
I 
. j 
t: 
)· 
i 
l f 
I t 
I 
! I 
I 1 
l 
J 
1920 
~ ~tmllr&!r&I®GTillf&ltR'irr&lirtllf&!irtlij'Kfitl\ilirtllirtli®G'Kilirtllirtl®lr&ti'R11irtllt&Jt&GTI1GTil®Milt&lt&l@l@i@ltl] 1 

l  Dedication  
t l'  K. K. Rockne, Coach  Franll Coughlin, Captain  Walter Halas, Ass't.: Coach  
I  

Edward Andersou H eartle:y Anderson Norman Barr}) ]oseph Brand}) George Gipp Roger Kile:y Fredericll Larson 


Glen Carberr:y 
Paul Castner 
Daniel Coughlin 
Edward De Cree 
]ames Doole}) 
Arthur Garve:y 
Donald Grant · David H a :yes 
John M ohardt 
H'arr:y M ehre 
Lawrence Shaw 

Robert Phelan 
Maurice Smith 
~Villiam Voss 
Forrest Calion, Michael Kein. Barr}) Holton, Michael Kane, Eugene Kenned:y, Lesslie Logan, Leo Mixson, Eugene Oberst, George Pro/lop, Michael Se:yfril, William Shea, Franll Thomas, ]ames Wilcox 
Contents 
The Schedule and Conches (A Review of the Gan1es) The Varsity The Freslnnen Inter-Hall Choice Chips The Olyn1pics Our Captains Press Connnent 
1 { Tu:E .Scii:EDULE ·Itt ·Ill AND. COACiiES 
1  
l  N.D.  
14  
60  
V1  
53  
16  
12  
13  
33  
14  
229  

TWO UNDEFEATED YEARS 
1919  
Kalmnazoo  0  
:Mount Union  0  
Nebraska  9  
· \Vestern State  9  
Indiana U.  3  
\Vest Point  9  
lVIichigan Aggies  0  
·Purdue  13  
l\'Iorningsidc  6  
Total  49  


·,.--. 
I 

Thursday afternoon at East Lansing, l\'lich., Knute K. Rockne ·closed his
l,. 
third year as head coach of Notre Dmnc 
r football with a record which surpasses that of any conch in these United States. He took charge of Notre Dmne ·football in Scpte1nbcr, 1918, after acting as assist­
i. ant to Jesse Harper since Hl1L1. Since!' that thnc Notre Dmnc has lost one gmnc in three years. 
\Vi lh a handful of youngsters under 21 he buill an S. A. T. C. temn in 1918 which accmnplished the greatest .feat of that turbulent season when it lied the Great Lakes tcmn of nationally fmned stars iri a 7-7 gmne, one of the greatest ever played on Cartier field. 
N.D. 1920 39 Kalmnazoo o. 
t
41 \Vestern Stales ·o 
1
16 Nebraska 7 i 28 Valparaiso 3 I 27 Arn1y 17 
f
28 Purdue 0 i 13 ·Indiana 10 1 
I
33 Nortlnvestern 7 l
C)­
-t> l\'lichigan Aggies 0 l 
250 Total t.¥1 
I 
In 1919 he carried the temn through 
l 
an undefeated season of nin·e gmnes and I 
.1 
··I
·this year he has repeated. On Thanks­
·' 
giving day 'vhen Notre Dmnc tackled the :Michigan Aggies he won his 18th con­secutive victory. 
Rockne is a real Notre Dmncnu1n. He 
was a shir on the great elevens of 1911­
12 and 13 and was picked for All-Atneri­
can end for two seasons. It was in those 
years that he, with "Gus'·' Dorais, intro­
(Iuccd the forward pass to the cast by ·registering ovcrwlwhning victories over the Ar~ny, Penn Stale and the Carlisle Indians.· 
Jesse Harper brought Notre Dan1c out of the football woods. Rockne has given her a place in the sun. · 
\Valter H. Eckcrsall, Sports-Editor of the Chicago Tribune, writes to us con­.ccrning Coach Rockne: 
"It .has been 1ny pleasure to know Knute Rockne ever since he broke into football fmne as a nlctnbcr of an eleven of one of the preparatory schools of Chi­cago. In those days, when he never drcmned of coaching an eleven which today is rated muong the powerful of the country Knute was a keen observer.­! t was his ability to absorb condilions and to ·reason for hiinself, that has really nuule hiin the coach 'vho is rated nn1ong the leading gridiron n1cntors of the coun­try. Even in his preparatory school days there was lillie about cnd-iJlay he did not know, and when he entered Notre Dmne he was considered a superb flank­player. 
Fi11c 
,j 
:i 
THE SEASQl\T'S RE11 1E11' ·OF 1920 
"'Vhen Jesse Harper was in charge of Rockne, and has,. by virtue of his great the football situation, Rockn~ was gen~ work, fulfilled every confidence placed in erally sent away every Saturday to scout hiln. Halas has earned, and, we are gmnes. On a nu1nber of occasions I acted happy to say, l1as cmnpletely wo·n the as an oflicial in gmnes which he saw, and good 'vishes of the faculty. and the stu­in our talks after the contests I learned dent body. 
that he had a thorough inside knowledge of Notre Dmne's future opponents. In other words, he 'vas one of the best foot­ball scouts I have ever known. Since he asstuned -cmnplete charge of football, Rockne has conforn1ed to \Vestern Con­ference · rules. Notre Dmne athletic temns are respected wherever they go, and there are not a few who would like to see the institution a 1ne1nber of. the conference." 



\\TALTER HALAS, ASS'T COACH Halas cmne to Notre Dmne to-Lake over an exceedingly difficult and responsible position, subseqtfent to Dorais' departure 
CAPTAIN FRANK COUGHLIN
for the \Vest. That the young 1nenlor possesses all the necessary qualificalions Notre Dmne feels that she has· no for superiority in coachdmn has been words with which to properly speed in 
de1nonstratecl 'vith gratifying clarity dur­farewell to one who has proved hilnself ing the Inmnentol.Is season which has so truly "a Notre Dmne 1nan," Captainjust cmnc to a close. Halas, who 1nade Coughlin. As leader of Notre Dmne's an enviable nmne for hi1nself in foot­undefe~l.ted eleven of 1920 he has raised ball, ·basketball and baseball circles at the standard of captaincy which has al­the University of Illinois, "ras selling the ways been held high in Notre D~une interscholastic world afire '" i t h his · athletics and has surely approached verybrilliant successes, when .he attracted the closely . to the ideal. The coaches, the attention of local athletic authorities. faculty, the ahnnni, and.. the students of He had turned out chmnpionship outfits Notre Dmne. will all testify in unnlodi­in .all the n1ajor sports at the Smnerset fied tenns to the confidence accorded hiln (Kentucky) Central High School and the during the football season. The captain'sDavenport (Iowa) High School. As a tact, diplmnacy, good sense, and spiritresult he was nuule "aide de cmnp" to have been in· large -Ineasure responsible 
Six 
THE SEASQl\T'S 

i 
for the high n1orale of the squad through thick and thin. He has been a unai1iinous choice for AU-State and All-\Vesterri honors by critics both· friendly and tin­friendly. His. work in the one appear­ance of his n1en on an Eastern field was 

r A Review 
NOTHE DAl\lE, 39; KALAMAZOO, 0. Kalmnazoo, the first opponent of the season, was easily overwhehned by the Varsity. It was evident fron1 the very start, that they· were not equal to the task. They fought tenaciously up ·to the very last 1ninute of. play, but it was a fight against iiniwssible odds. To nlen­tion the Varsity_ n1en whose play cmne \Veil up to the expectation of the "fans" \vould be to give the whole pers.onnel of the temn. The feats of that afternoon augured well for victory in the big battles to cmne. Early ·in the· second quarter, the backs showe~l greed for yards and ~ipp, hurtling throi1gh the \Volvcr­Ine tacklers struck· a spectacular gallop for thirty yards to the second touchclown. \Vynne Inaking the fii·st. · In the second half there cmne a shower of touchdowns -by Barry, Brandy, Kasper .and l\'Io­hardt. · 
NOTHE DAl\lE, 41; \VESTERN ·STATE NORMAL, 0. 
The next visitor to Cartier field, the \Vestern N or1nal eleven, also succu1nbed to the crushing offensive and iinpregna­ble defe_nsive play of the Varsity. Except for occasionhl flashes of fairly good de­fensive work, the Norn1als .were pitifully helpless, \Vhether in their efl'ort to curb the. advances of Rockne's plungii1g aces or in their failure to 1nake an iinpr'ession on the Varsity forward wall. The final 
r 
I score, Lll to 0, \vould undoubtedly have been doubled, had it not been for heavy pen9Ities iinposed upon Notre Dan1e and the _extren1e heat. ; · 
NoTnE D.uiE, 16; NmmASKA, 7. 
Rockne's n1en underwent .their first re~1I test of the season when they Inet the temn of Nebraska at Lincoln. Cmning. frmn behind in the latter part of the gmne, they drove their \vay through to a 16-to-7 victory over the Cornhuskers, be­fore the largest cro,'nl that has ever attended a gmne in that city. The two Lemus fought evenly through the first 
RE1'1E11T. OF 1920 
such as to startle the football oracles of the East into raptures of praise· for hiin. The · undefeated · chmnpions of 1919 surely picked "a big n1an for a big job" \vhen_· they· fell upon "Little \Villie'.' Coughlin to captain the_ squad of 1920. 

of the Gatnes 
half. Gipp, Castner, and Barry, after the Notre· Dmne aerial tactics had been tenl-:­porarily frustrated, began a series of off-:­tackle crashes and flank dashes \Vhich took the ball to the Cornhuskers' two­foot line. Here the \Vesterners fought like n1achnen and held.. Sha\V spilled_ the atte1npted punt, which \Vas reco,rered by a Nebraskan behind his goal line, thus giving the Varsity two points on a safety. Hubka went over for a touchdown in the second period for ·the Cornhuskers. Brandy cut his way through ·the Red and \Vhite line for our first touchdown. In the third qunrter, . Gipp's dash for a touchdo\vn, in e·xecution of Rockne's yearly· ~'stunt," l)repa.red_:·especially for Nebraska, was disallo\;ved, because of holding. The last touchdown followed a series of counter-sldrri1ishes, Gipp going through tackle for th~ score. 
NOTHE DAl\lE, 28; v.~LPr\Ht\~sp, 3. 
,.J 1' • .. 

. A week latet~ eight Lhqtisari.d spectators cranuned into .Cartier field and saw the "Roclnnen'' lnnnble_ tlie griin. fighting temn of Valp~r~is·o. T1Ie· ~'Valps," in proud possession of a three-point lead at the end of the first period, "'ere worn tq shreds .in their bitter atten1pts to with-· stand the continual pounding of the local shock squad. Early in the .second pe'riod Rockne withdrew his reserves and soon the Valpo defensive \Vas cnnn­bling before the onsla9ghts of the Ac.es. Plung~ after plunge netted long· gains. \Vynne went over the top, followed by Gipp a few Ininutes later. Gipp found
· 

the enen1y trench again in the fourth quarter, and ".Johnny" l\'Iohardt wriggled over for the fourth touchdown .of the gmne, following Hayes' scoop of Ker-: cheval's wild delivery. 
N9TRE DAME; 27;· Anl\rY, 17. 

Eastern cities are still sounding the \Vell-dGserved praises of the "Hoosier'.~ eleven which invaded the East late -in October and, for the third consecutive 
Seven 

. l 
:( 
! 
THE SEASOJ:\T'S REVIEvV OF 1·920 
tiine, defeated the Cadets of 'Vest Point. "It was the struggle ·of a good temn against a great one," writes a prmninent Ne'v York critic. "Beaten ..though the Ar1ny -,vas by a score of 27 to 17, the glory_. .of a gallant fight against ·a too powerful foe· re1nains with 'Vest Point. Against: a n1achine capable of potniding its way for. successive 1narches of seventy­fi,'e and eighty-five yards, the Cadets went down-as aln1ost any other· eleven in the East n1ust have if it had faced the Notre Dan1e eleven that look the field today." Notre Dmne supporters at the gmne were legion, and they sa'v a Gold and Blue eleven fighting in its best nlan­ner. They saw iVIohardt and Gipp gain yard after yard around the ends _and off­tackle, and they left· tli.e plains convinced that the n1en of today are keeping up the 
:J traditions of their beloved Notre Dmne in a very efficient n1anner~ 
·I NoTnE DA~IE, 28; PunnuE, 0. 
.~ 
Long before the whistle blew for the opening of hostilities, it 'vas necessary to turn away the crowd at the gale.· 
After· the· reserves had fought the Boiler1nakers lo a stands_till for a greater part of the first h~11f~ it 'vas no surprise that the-Varsity ran rough-shod over the lads frmn down-stale, after they entered the contest just before the close of the first half. ·The score was i1o in(li­calion of the strength of the Notre Dmne 
temn. · The versatile Gipp was at his best in this conlest. His eighly yard run off tackle for a touchdown was the feature 
of the gmne, and his frequent passes to _Anderson and Kiley were spectacles to 'vatch. 
Capt. Coughlin, Hunk Anderson, Shaw and S1nilh opened great holes for 'Vynne, Barry, lVIohardt, Coughlin and Castner, who. ei~her walked gracefully through the Boilerinakers' defense or trotted 
., _around the end~, advancing the ball for good gains on every play. · 
NOTHE DA~rE, 13; INDIANA, 10: Next' cmne the gruelling battle with Indiana, 'vhich taxed all the resources of the chmnpions. . Coach Stehn, who ·has· been a close observer of the Notre Dmne systen1, particularly dtiring the last season, was all set for the fray. The Indiana stands went wild with joy 'vhen the last quarter opened with their· temn len points in the lead, hut their lead 'vas to he short-lived. On the first play of the 
fourth quarter Gipp crossed the last 
white line, and soon after added another 
point with a goal. After this there 'vas 
no stopping the "Roclnnen," and before the end of the gmne the Gold and Blue . ·warriors had 1nade another touchdown, 
which n1eant defeat for a temn that had 
been coached for two years with but one 
·eild in view-to beat Notre -Dmne. The 
cmne-back _staged by our n1en at a tiine 
when an ordinary temn 'vould have 
given up the ghost and looked forward to 
the evening banquet as the next thing on 
the progrmn, is proof sufficient of the 
wonderful n1orale and temn play they 
possess and the keen-edged brand of 
coaching they ·had received. 
. . . 

NOTRE DA~lE, 33; NOHTH,VESTEHN, 7. After the first few 1ninutes of play at Evanston, we wondered what right the Northwestern coach had to puplish a .statenu~nt before the Notre Dmne gmne .to the effect that he was having a hard tiine to keep his n1en frmn being over­confident. .Just then it da,vned upon us that it 'vas Incant for a joke-and 've 
smiled. .· 
The Varsity scoring sp~·ee began in the 

second quarter, and .the 'vhistle at·.the 
end found the locals with fourteen points 
to the good. Grausnick,. of the Purple 
squad, in the third quarter, got a'vay to a 
pretty dash which .Incant a touchdown 
and goal. GipJ), handicapped 'vilh his 
bad shoulder, entered the gmne in the 
last quarter and· was given a rousing 
ovation. Each of two passes by this 
wonder nuu1 resulted in a touchd_o,vn. 
NoTnE DA~rE, 25; iVlicniGAN AGGIES, 0. Probably the prettiest run of the sea­son 'vas n1ade in this gmne, when Dannie Coughlin received the kick-oft' frmn the Aggies, an~l rnn eighty yards through the entire Agg~e Lemn for the first' touchflown of the gmne. In the third quarter Cast­ner 1nade the "Aggies" goal line for two touchdowns, and in the final period "Eddie" Anderson galloped across the last while line, following his recovery of a blocked punt. Notre Dmne, by virtue of her reinark­able record of eighteen consecutive vic­tories with no defeat and no lie, has 'von a per1nanenl place in the athletic sun. IL lu~s not been by good luck at all, hut In virtue of sheer superiority that the great Inachine of 1920 has credited itself as being the best temn in the business this year. · 
Eiallt 
THE s·E AS 0 N' S R E 1' IE 11' o·.F 1 9 2·0 
I 
r 
I 
ED AND'ERSON 

The ends; oh boy! burn n1ah clothes! The New York Herald sa)'s, "the ends, Kiley and E. Anderson, 'vere far and away the gt~eate'st wing n1en 've have seen this year.. They were wonders on attack, bear cats on defense, and fast­·why, they could not con1e any faster on a football field and be lnunan." . ·That quotati'qn is in itself ahnost mnple conl­Jnendation for the pair, one of \vhon1, 


Eddie, is a speciinen of the perfect athlete, with n1uscles that entertwine so beautifully, and that enable the owner to flit down the field 'vith unbelievable celerity and gather in the flying pellet, all the tiine sending the opposition reel­ing to the sod. And Eddie has another year here, too. 
H~ARTLEY ANDERSON 

Heartley Anderson, whose slogan, "I'll do the best we can," was adopted as the watch-word of the entire temn, for1ned n running-Inate for Morrie Sn1ith. A veri­table Roosevelt Dmn on defensive and the proverbial "Big Bertha" on offensive, 



"Hunk" has proved a 1natch for any of his opponents during the past season. He is the type of a n1an who plays the gmne for the sheer love of playing-a 1nan who would rather fight for the Gold and Blue than eat; a nu1n "'hose happiness con1es in the glory of his temn and of his school rather than in plaudits for any personal accmnplislunent. That a n1an of this stmnp is of incalculable value to the n1orale of a temn goes without saying. Anderson started with his pal "Ojay" Larsqn in 1918 and his· sterling heart, po"'erful strength .and achnirable grit will be at the service of Notre Dmne for the last tiine in 1921. 
NORNIAN C. BARRY 

In the passing of Nonnan Barry fro1n current college athletics "'e lost a unique gridiron figure. He began his develop­nlent as an athlete n1ore than a decade ago on the Nlinin1 temn of St. Edward Hall; in his growing years he played in Carroll and Brownson Halls, then on the Freslunan temn, and finally on the repre­sentative eleven of his school. His re­nlarkable success on the football field has been attributed to his love of action and clean fight. It has been observed also that the big days and 1ninutes ·of his career were 1nade just when the gmne seen1ed lost, the fight hopeless. \Ve re­n1e1nber well how he started the rally against the Anny in 1919 when the score 
Nine 

T H E S E A S 0 l\T ' S R E 1' I E 1V · 0 F 1·9 2 0 
st<)od mninously against Rockne's n1en, weeks later kicked a field goal for a vic­and ho'v later in the smne year he tory over \Vashington and Jefferson. He brought th~ temn to life in the contest spent the 1918 season as an ariny officer against the :Michigan Aggies, who \vere but returned last season. He is the brains playing the superior lemi1 of Notre Dmne b.ehind the chmnpions and \Vhcn they are to a standstill. Finally it \Vas "Nonn" 
who, 'vith the aid of 1\'Iohardt, late in the gmne turned what scen1ed to be certain defet1t into victory in the terrific contest with the Crin1son of Indiana a few weeks 



ago. At Evanston Barry played against Northwestern the gmne of his career­before hundreds of. his "hmne-lown"::I friends, gathered frmn all parts of Chi­
:I 
.I 
cago to sec hiln in action. \Vhatcvcr the
;i 
an1ount or quality of the opposition il 
was rare indeed that Barry did not go 
forward when called upon. This typical
.,:II 
-.I 
"fighting Roclnnan" leaves the gridiron 
··; with the best wishes of every Notre Dan_1e n1an for the ulmosl success in whatever 
he 1nay undertake. ' on the field and as a "safely" on the ~lefcnse ~1e Iu:s no superior on the gri~l­Iron. I-hs 13::> pounds have filled a 1ng
.TOE BRANDY 

space in Notre Dmnc foblball annals.
The dapper 1nidgel n1ade Ogdensburg, 

N. Y., fmnous, and· piloted three Notre Dmne tcmns to victory against the Arn1y GEORGE GIPP in the annual "classics." He 'vas Eckcr­The year Nineteen Hundred and sall's All-\Vestern sclectio·n in 1917, his Twenty has been n1ost· rc1narkable in first year. 1nany ways, hut that which sounds the 
Brandy started his football career as a. superlathre note in this rcn1arkabilily is halfback and played that position until the successfulness of athletics, that is­the Artny gmne in 1917 when, with Capt. the brilliant perforn1crs and the mnazingPheh1n unavailable, he was suddenly records. Pugilisn1 has its .Tack De1npscyshifted to quarterback. He 1nade the and its Benny Leonard. Basketball h.as touchdown which spelled victory and lwo its University of Pennsylvania ·Quintet. 
Tcrt 
THE SEASON'S REVIE1~' OF 1920 
\Vrestling has· its Stecher and. Plestina. Baseball has its Babe Ruth, Cleveland chmnps, its Coveleskie, "\Vmnby" and its Sn1ith. Track has ·its Paddock, its Johnny lVIurphy, its Lomnis, its Thmnp­son, its Desch. Tlie Turf has its Man 0' \Var and its Sir Barton. Rowing has its Navy Cre\V. Swinuning has its Ethleda Bleibtrey, its Charlotte Boyle and its Nor­nlan Ross. The . Kennel has its "The Squire of Tytoi1" and its "Con1n1anche Frank." Tennis ·has its VVillimn T. Til­den Ii. And so on down through the athletic Hall of Fmne. 
Then ~1s a 1nost fitting close to the n1ost brilliantly successful of athletic seasons con1es Football. Football has had its heroes in the past-this year. Football has · its Gipp, George Gipp, half-back extra­ordinary. \Vhat Babe Ruth is to base­ball, George Gipp·is to football. Both are in a class by thetnselves. The critic \vho said "Notre Dmne has two Lemus, Gipp and ten other 1nen" spoke lnlly. Reli­


able, consistent, ziz-zaggy fast, accurate in both short and long passing, unerring and far-reaching in kicks, k~en-eyed, alert and destructive on defense-fool­ball thoroughbred fron1 the nails ·in the cleats of his shoes to the gridiron griine on the top of his hehneted head. In the foreground \Vhen his temn needed h~n1, because it needed hiin, in the background always and whenever .possible. That's George-that stmnps hiin as the really fruly great athlete that he is. Great n1en in every \valk of life act, others just talk. To not place hiin on the All-An1erican Temn is to say there will.be no All-Anler­ican Temn. Up to the tiine of going. to 
press, the sensation of the 1920 gridiron 
season, has been placed on e\rery Inythi­
cal All-An1erican and All-\Vestern temn, 
.and these temns have been picked by son1e of the n1ost noted sport \Vrilers in the country, including \Valter Cmnp. 

ROGER KILEY 

If Notre Dalne had .:not two superb athletes alongside the tackles the fmned pass work \Vould fail.· But because the detested ene1ny cannot rivet their atten­tion on two ends at once, the pass· spells glorious victories tiinc after tin1e. Last year Rodge Kiley fought hard for his letter, arid because he \Vas a true and feared tackler, in addition to his other qualilie&, he \Von out. This year he an,d Eddie dazzled the Ar~ny, Valpo; N e­braska and the others, and next year, again, \Viii the tall·Kiley be back to bal­ance the N. D. line liinits, so necessary for the proverbial N. D. forward passing success. · · 
FREDERICK LARSON 

Everyone knew that Larson· would for1n an integral part of Rockne's stone­wall line of the past season. "Ojay" had proved hiinself in ·the fall of 1918, when, in his first year of collegiate football, he won his 1nonogrmn \Vith ease. This year there were sore and .\\'cary Nebraskans.. tired and lnunbled Cadets, and weak and staggering sons of Northwestern whose broken spirits could testify to the power . of this 1nighty center far n1ore ably. than can any critic's feeble pen. IL ·n1ay be reasonable asserted that Larson is the · peer of centers in Hoosier footballdmn, 
Eleven 

:I: ii 
THE SEAS0l\7 'S 


:I 
those sport writers who chose to pick "l\'Iatunee Teck" and "lVIontague School of Nursing" stars to the contrary. Notre Dmne is fortunate in ·having Larson's services for two n1ore years during which ti1ne he n1ay be· depended upon to give substantial aid in keeping our record of the future equal to that of the glorious past. 


: ~ I 

JOHN lVIOHARDT 
\Vilh a hard schedule to look forward 

~ . I to for 1921, .John will have a responsible position to fill. Frmn present ind_ications he \viii he called upon to step Into the shoes lefl vacant by George· Gipp, .and 
Twelve 
REVIE1~' OF 1920 
this will be no s1nall job. The teain has confidence in John~s ability to deliver th~ goods, and look for. b!g things frmn h.iin during the next gridiron season, \Vlnch will be his last with the old Gold and Blue. · 

LA\VRENCE SHA\V 

Every individual seen1s to have a special branch of football in \vhich he excels. Blocking punts is· the particular feat in which Sha\v lakes delight. . The first score of ·the Nebraska gmne \vas 1nade possible by a blocked kick by this genllenuLn frmn 'Iowa, and he later duplicated the stunt at the Anny, Incli­ana, Northwestern and Michigan Aggies. Probably next year he will add another feature, that of falling on the ball after the kick is blocked. ~Shaw is a t)•pe of college nu1n very seldmn seen on any cmnpus. lVIodest, unasstuning, friendly, always a gentle1nan; we \Vish hiin un­
. hounded success in his· last year of Varsity cmnpelilioi1. 
l\'IAURICE SlVIITH 

l\'Iaurice Stnith, the 1nidg~t guard, lips the scales at only 163, yet he \Vas selected last year, by Eckersall as All.;.\Vestern. lVIovie's work in the Ar1ny gmne \Von hiin praise frmn the Eastern critics, and paved his· \vay· to a he_rlh on the All­Anlerican...Out-weighed in every gmne 25 to 60 pounds, S1nithy ahvays disposed of his n1an, and opened holes in the opposing line for Gipp, \Vyn1ie, Mohardt and Brandy.. ~t will be 1nany years be­
THE SEASON'S 

1
~ 


fore Notre Dmne produces another guard 'vith the ofl'ensive and defensive ability of Maurice S1nith. 
DAVE HAYES 

\Vanclered out to Noh~e Dmne fron1 the bleak shores of Connecticut in 1917 and proceeded to set Cartier Field afire. 'vith his football feats. He paired 'vith Tmn King as a regular end that season. The next year found ~1iin with son1e two 1nillion others in France. Hayes spent several n1on ths iii the hospital after he 
. starred in '"The Big Gmne" and he brought back a "'eakened leg 'vhich slowed hbn down a bit but did not pre­vent hiin frmn annexing a second nlono­grmn in 1919 and ~ third this season. As 
1 


REVIE1~' OF 1920 
an e_nd he is a personified reason 'vhy Notre Dmne temns a1~e called "The Fight­ing Irish." He has done a big part in "'inning two chmnpionships and in Inak­ing "South Bend. and Notre Dmne 'vorld fmned." . · 
Hayes is also a hockey st~r. He played 'vith the Notre Dmne Infonnals last sea­son and is expected to ·star this year 'vhen the gmne is introduced as a varsity sport. 

CHESTER \VYNNE 

If there be a fullback in the "rest 'vho is better than "Chet'' :\Vynne, it 'viii be· a hard task to prov~. the fact to any stu­dent at Notre Dmne. On offense Chet has no equal, and he is a power on de­fense. · In the Nebi·aska gmne he took the heart out of the huge "Cornhusker" linesn1en by his terrific plunges! 'vhich netted hiin large ·gains every thne he struck the line. \Vynne also crashed the Ar1ny line for consistent gains. His fleet­ness and powerful leg drive nuule it al­nlost iinpossibe to stop hiin. "Chet," "re are 1nost happy to say,·has one n1ore year of intercollegiate football. · 
DAN COUGHLIN 

The. entrance of "Danny" Coughlin into a gmnc this season "'as the signal for a long gain by the Gold and Blue. For Danny, one of the fastest little halfbacks turned out at any school, '\vas slippery as the proverbial eel,. and ene1ny taclilers becmne cross-eyed when he swooped 
Tllirteen 
THE SEASQl\T'S 


down the field. Although not a blood re~ ation of the fmnous captain, he is akin to Big Frank in possessing the football in­stinct, and n1o~·e than that, the fighting instinct.· His record on the Freslnnan Squad of last year "'as nothii~g short of phenmnenal, and .one coach declared that in hiln "Notre Dmne has one ·of the 1nost prmnising ·young halfbacks in the country." \Ve look for big things fron1 little Danny in his two retnaining years at Notre Dan1e. 
ARTHUR GARVEY 
Hector Garvey, the star muong the Notre Dmne Freslnnen of 1919, substi­tuted this year for Captain Frank Cough­lin, and developed into a n1ost reliable understudy. Hector· is a den1on on offense, m)d ilnpregnable on defense. He had a habit of opening huge holes in opposing lines, as if they were nuule of tissue pap.er, and it was not an infrequent sight to see hiln break through and thro"r the opposing .hacks for big losses. He was in the Indiana gmne 011ly a few Inin­utes, hut he nailed the "Hoosier" hacks in their tracks on five consecutive plays. Arthur has two n1ore years to play, and if his past perfortnances are a presage of what is to develope, his nmne \Viii go 


·down in the Notre Dmne Hall of Fmne as one of our greatest linesn1en. 
GLEN CARBERRY 
"Judge" Carberry literally Inade hitn­self felt whenever a play started in the direction of left end. \Vith his 185 pounds of high-pcnver n1uscle h e. regularly 

!' knocked the opposition· into suhtnission \vith his hard tackling. "Judge" started four gmnes with the second string, and in each instance put up a s1nashing de­f~nse that Look the fight out of the oppos­ing hacks. \Vhen,·on other occasions, he was ·substituted for Kiley he played strong football, especially on the defense. At \Vest Point he was in the gmne for only a few Ininutes, hut the Ca(Iet hack­field--·,vas Jlainfully aware of his brief presence. 

HARRY lVIEHRE 
Harry lVIehrc played center like a regu­lar \Vhenever called upon during the season, and that was quite a few tilnes. 
Fourteen 

RE.VIE11T OF 1920 
Big, heavy and fast, l\1ehre was a valua­ble asset to Rockne's section gang \Vork­ing out of Notre Dan1e. Harry cmne to Notre Dmne \Vith no previous football knowledge, but he will leave with experi­ence aplenty. . · 
Paul Castner and Phelan as under­stlHlics to Chet \Vynne rendered invalu­able se1~vice to the temn, and their ability to slide off tackle or n1ow over opposition developed \vith the. season~ 
Ed· DeGree is holding high the fmnily banner and in another year should equal if not pass the renowned "Cy" in his work for Mr. Rockne. 
Dooley and Voss \Vere always on the job. Voss' .work in the Purdue and Northwestern gmnes were proof that he is a nuu1 \vith a real kick, and Dooley will do good \Vork in the place S1nitty left for hin1 to fill. 
\Valsh .did particularly good \vork at Lansing, howling over the Aggie n1en al­nlost at will. His n1onogrmn \vas \Veil earned, and in another year he should shine with the brightest. 
\VALTER CAlVIP'S ALL-AlVIERI CAN . TEAl\'1. 

FmsT TEA:\[ End............ : ........................... Carney, Illhwis Tackle........~ ......................... Keck, Princeton GuanL.................................. Callahan, Yale Center................................Slein, Pittsbtirgh. Guard................................ \Voods, Harvard Tackle............ : ................... Scott, \Visconsin End..... : .................... Fincher, Georgia Tech. Quarter............................Lourie, Princeton Half Back. ........... Stinchcmnh, Ohio State Half Back..............~ ...........\Vay, Penn State Full Back........................ Gipp, Notre Dmne 
. In the back field, Gipp or'Notre Dmne gels the first place on ~iccount of his ver­satility and power, able as he is to punt, drop-kick, fonvard-pass, .run, tackle-in fact, do anything that any back-field n1an' could ·ever be required to do, and do it in a well-nigh superlative fashion. He drop-kicked on his freslunan temn sixty­two yards. \Vhen a n1an who has been taken o!'l' with a badly injured shoulder can go 111 on a pinch and. carry the ball over the goal line to ge·t· his temn an ab.solulely necessary· to··uchdown, sonle­tlnng of the Inan's power can \Veil be understood. · 
THE SEASON'S RE1'1E11' OF 1920 

1 

li'U.ESYMEN
I 
J 

It is the lot of all Freslunen to sn1ile, despite "the slings and arrows of out­rageous fortune" as wielded upon then1. by ruthless upperclassn1en, and surely none have s1niled n1ore truly than the n1en \vho cmnposed this year the Fresh­Bien football eleven at Notre Dmne, \vho day after day withstood the n1urderous onslaughts of the Varsity, while that po,verfulinachine \Vas n1aking ready' for the gmnes 'which achieved for it the nmne of being the best gridiron aggregation of 1920: \Vhen that .title \Vas \Von it \vas not to the Fi·eslunen that the glory canie; yet they had no sn1all part in the \vin­ning, and they \Vere gladdened to kno\v that they had helped to beat the Ar1ny, to beat N'ebraska, to beat Indiana, and the others. 
A nu1nber of ·the Varsity n1en have no\V con1pleted their alloted years of col­lege football. Their places Inust be filled next season, and fron1 the Freslunen \Viii COnle lllOSt of the Bien who lllUSf sustain Notre Dmne's football record. Fron1 muong the Inen \Vho trounced Culver 13 to 7 and the Fort \Vayne Friars· 18 to 7 will con1e the new heroes of Cartier Field. Perhaps the n1ost prmnising of then1 at present is one Lieb, full-back, who was chiefly responsible for the Cul­ver tritunph and \Vho Inade .his \vay through the Varsity line as fe\v enen1y backs of the season did. He is a four­letter n1an and was captaiii-elect of this year at SL. Thmnas College, :Minnesota. 
·According to Coach. Rockne, who kn_ows . "he has n1ore drive than any n1an ·Since the days of Eichenlaub." Another star under the wing of Coach Frank Miles last season, was Joe Bergnu1n, "Dutch III." of the fmnous fmnily of Peru, Indiana. Joe is a left half-back. His 75-yard run did Inuch to win the contest \vith the Friars, \vho are captained by '~Cy" De­gree, forn1er Notre Dmne star, and count several other players about as good as Degree. · 
And then there is. lVIagevney, quarter­back, a pass~r and a field general extra­ordinary; lVIaher, right-half, a clever qpen-field runner; Reese, quai·ter-back, who cmne frmn Chicago "U" with a repu­tation; the ends, Shaugnessy, lVIriyl, Cmn­eron, and Ray Kohin; the tackles, l\~Iur­phy, Flynn, and Du Jardin; the guards; Hogan, Berberich, an<~ Hieb; the centers, Reagan and Bolowsln-and Alfred Ar­thur ·and Kelley. .Flynn is ahnost certain Varsity Inaterial -for 1921. Bolowski, clever on defense, should figure in sev­eral line-ups; and Berberich, of South Dakota, also looks good. · 
The Freslunen, under Coach l\'liles have all been hard and faithful players, and Notre Dmne needs not fear that the loss of a nu1nber of this year's stars will preveqt her having another great temn in H)21. The Freslunen of this year, in short, prmnise that they will "carry on" in ·a way worthy of their illustrious predecessors. 
Fi{lCCll 

T H E S E A S 0 N ' S R 'E 1' I E 1~' 0 F· 1 9 2 0 

INTERHALL SEASON OF 1920 
Bro\vnson ------·..... 27 Corby --·-----·--·--·---1 Off-Can1pus ·---···-0 '\Valsh .-----·---·--···-·-0 Bro\vnson --··-·-··---7 Sorin --·-------··-··-----7 Badin -----·--·--··--·-··-0 Ofl'-Cmnpus -··-·-·-7
Brownson ____________ 1 
Carroll ·--------·-···-· 1 \Valsh ----···-----··-----0 Badin----·····--·--------0
Brownson ____________10 . Carroll ________________20 
Carroll ----~-----·--·--0 \Valsh -·-·--·-----·-----7 Brownson -----------· 1 Badin ···--------·--------7 Sorin ------·-------···---0 Sorin -·--·--·-----·----·-6 Corby ----------··--··--7 Badin ··-·----------------19
Off-Cmnpus ________ 0

Carroll --·-----··--···-0 Corby -----··---·--·--···-6 Sorin --------------·-··--6
011'-Cmnpus ________ 0 
\Valsh -~----·--·--·---~-0 
Interh~1ll football cmne up for the sea­

.son of 1920 like "Jrick" De1npsey at Toledo and went down like "Charlie" CI1aplin under a barrage of custa1~d pies. And if the analogy be further per1nitted, the ingi·edients of the fatal pies were too Inany outside g a 111 e s, frequent \vet grounds and the n1ore enticing spiciness of the varsity schedule. · 
Bro\vnsori had a well rounded, heavy, fighting tean1 that proved itself ready and capable ·at all ti1nes of taking the n1easure of its opponents. \Veight and natural ability w_ere supr)leinented by cqnsistent coaching, giving the temn the suggestion of tictive po\ver at· all_ tiines. Brow~son· and Coi·by. failed to get to:­gether for the decidiiig gmne of the sea­son and are deadlocked for first place, but ·acc~rding to the ntunber of gmnes ·"'on, the Bro\VI~son eleven is regarded by n1any as 1920 Interhall chmnpions. 
Corby. showed enough to win frmn the Off-Cmnpus and Carroll. The temn \Vas heavy and powerful and seCined to he !raveling at its fastest clip as the season ended, and had ·they n1et Brownson, n1ight have sprung a surprise. . 
0 

Badin playe<~ an interesting gmne throughout and 111 a longer season n1ight have con1e out ~n top. IL-forfeited to 
Sixteen 

Carroll and lost to Brownson in the last 1ninute of an otherwise even gmne. 
Carroll, entering the con1petition for 

the first thne, \Vas the surprise of the 
league. A light line was the \Veak spot 
of the temn, although in aggressiveness 
and courage the forward \Vall equalled 
nny in the league conference. The squad 
was ·active, colorful and always interest­
ing. · · 
Sorin had a better temn than its final · standing indicates, and \Vas ha.ndicapped 
by the usual difficulty of getting an inter­
hall temn fron1 upper clas·sn1en. Al­
though . coached by the best football 
brains in the school, it had too n1any 
"one-gmne" n1en. · 
0
The Off-Cmppus aggregation \Vas 

treated quite roughly on its first appear­
ance in interhall football and n1et with 
the natural disadvantages of "students 
residing off the cmnpus." Nevertheless· 
the Dodgers played n1ore actual gmnes 
than any other ~e·mn, ·gradually iinprov­
ing, and in the final gmne, with· Sorin. 
actually outplayed the older hall eleven. 
\Valsh \Vas the "hard luck" temn of the league, suf1'ering injuries in the early part of the season \vhich seriously affected the temn. Although they lost both gmnes played, the boys \Vere not outgmned and furnished one of the prelliest rallies of the season against CatToll after being see1ningly outclassed. 
Tlie all-star temn ";hich follows, \Vas 

chosen by the coaches of the respective 
temns. 
Seyfril of Badin was a jJopular selec-. 

tion for end. He was a deadly tackler and a clever receiver of the forward . pass. \Valsh, of Carroll, is again selected for the other end. He was a hard n1an to keep· out of a play, followed the ball . closely and his handling of passes was mnong the best in the league. Sanders. of Brownson, showed a defense excelled by no nutn in· the conference. On the offense he hit hard and fast and \\~as a 

T H E S E A S 0 l\T .' S R E 1' i E 1~1 0 F 1 9 2 0 
tough n1an to stop; a plugging linesn1an with a natural love of battle. On the 
o t h e r ·tackle, Hunsinger, of Badin, showed an entirely _·different type of ~ 0 gmne. · On the defense he \vas usually on the hollmn of his plays and entered the o~l'ense ·with a vitality seldmn displayed by a tackle. Oberst, of Brownson, was an nhnost unanilnous selection for guard;_ 
.one look. at this Kentucky giant is suffi-· cient to see the unanilnily of his selec­tion. Cleary of Sarin was certainly the spirit and ahnost the body of the Sarin · line. He· sized up a _play quickly and slopped n1ore plays back of the line than Cmnfort, · lVIargowski, Kelly, Riley, any olher Inan. He is captain of the all­Sclunitt, Harhnril1, Parker, Coach .San­star eleven. lVIixon of Corby repeals his ders. all-hall center selection. He \Vas a good passer and was one of the big reasons 
Burris, lVIelody, Oberst, Keenan, Fitz­for Corby's success. Connell of Carroll gerald, Logan, Vignos, Doriot.
has the distinction of being the only unanilnous choice on the eleven. Cmn­
fiieehan, Lightner,. Henneberry, Cook,ing to the preps as an all-\Visconsin high . 
Barry, Follet.
school back, this husky youngster tore his way through opposing lines \Vi lh a drive that re1ninded old tilners of Stan­The success of the Brownsonites is ley Cofall. On the other half, Nicholson wholly due to the coaching they received of Badin would 1nake an ideal· running frmn Cy Sanders, and the co-operation 
nu1le for Corinell. He is a good line of their prefects and the support of the piunger, a clever open field runner and a n1e1nbers of the hall. If all the. halls · 
deadly tackler. \Vright of Brownson has were kept in the condition £it all tiines been shifted ·fron1 half-hack to full-back as \Vere the Brownson hi1ll lads, and ·as 
because of his driving power and supe­wel.l and carefully coached the inter-hall riority over any regular full-back. Al­race \Vould be nuiCh closer and 1nore in-though not a brilliant player, he \Vas al­1eresting than it no\V is. ways steady, he passed well, kicked the only field goal of the ·season and played a strong secondary defense in which he excelled at breaking up passes. Sclunilt of Brownson draws. the quarter-hack nssignn1ent. Although fiery in ten1per he directed a varied ·attack \vhich pulled his temn through close spots throughout the season. He \Vas .a. consistent gainer through the line and shone in returning 
·punts _and intercepting passes. 
Position 1Vdn1e Flall 

Left end \Valsh Carroll Left tackle Sanders Brownson Left guard Cleary (C) Sarin. CORBY HALL Center lVIixon Corby 
Right Guard Oberst Bro\vnson · Kiley (Coach), E. Anderson (Coach), Right tackle Hunsinger Badin Hart, Raub, Cannady, Flynn, _\Velch, Right end Seyfrit Badin lVIcDonald, lVIixon, Flynn ( Co'ach), Lieb 
(Coach).
Quarter-back Sclunitt. Brownson Left half-hack Connell Carroll Right half.:.back Nicholson Badin J mnes, · Johnson, Chausee, Pfeifer, Full-hack· \Vright Brownson Hoar, \Villimns, Cook, fi'laher. 
Seventeen 



THE. SEAS 0 l\T' S R E VIE 1~' ·o F 1 9·2 0 
Recker, Carroll, lVIcGarty, Rohrbach; Reardon. 
' The Corby temn were runners-up in the league, winning all their gmnes. The postponed gmne between Corby and Brownson would have been a close con­test. Coached by Eddie Anderson, star ·varsity end, and Roger Kiley, his teani­Inate, the sopohmnore. temn, had they taken n1ore interest in the league, would I undoubtedly have nuule a better show­
1. ing... 
.The biggest job is to get this temn out -but after they're out, \vhether they are 


ten strong, or ten tiines ten, it's tiine for opposition to go hole huntiiig. Captain Cleary, chosen as captain of the all inter­hall temn, is fitted for the job. Fast, and. built close to the· ground, he is at all· li1nes a dangerous n1an to handle. Pfohl, Hanrahan and \Vilcox are also up in front in the inter-hall league race for in­dividual honors. Coached by "the lit­tle· General" and "Little. \Villie" the Sorii1 temn was a hard nut to crack.. 
DAY STUDENTS 

Leech, Schniitt, '1-Iannn, '\Veisch~tar,. Smnons, Murray, \Valsh, 'lVIcGrannahan, Hogan, Fr. Cunninghmn (Coach). · 
Sullivan, Dunn, Nadolney, Sharp, Donaldson, Feltes, · Visconte, Gromns, Keen. 
Due fo the deter1nined efforts of Fathe1~ Cunninghmn, rector of the Day Students,. the lads residing off the emu­BADIN HALL 
pus \Vere. represented by a \Veil coached outfit. Lacking sufficient n1aterial, and Swint, Pulte, Nicholso.n, Sheehan, :Mc­confronted with the ahnost hnpossible · Nally, Huether. task of. getting his n1e1r out for practice, Father Cunninghmn \Vorked wonders Cofley, Hunsinger, Kervan, lVIcManus, with his "boys," and at the close of the C~·owley, Landeau. · season they \Vere showing class and iin-. hibing the spirit of the other halls. In a DeGurse, Cahill, Seyfrit (Coach), year or two the Day Students will have \Vhalen, Brown, Swift. to he reckoned with in the inter-hall league. 
The Freslnnan hall always puts out a · 

scrappy bunch. This year \Vas no ex­SORIN .HALL ception. Seyfrit, varsity candidate, coached his temn \veil, winning fron1
Brandy (Coach), Hanrahan, Owens, 

s~veral s·~rong outside temns, and bat­
Prokop, Coughlin (Coach), Huether, 
thug hard in the inter-hall league.
Cleary, Fisher, \Vilcox. 
Huether, star end for the first year Inen, was al~vays in the gmne, and was goodDettling, Schwartz, Blasius, Pfohl. 
for a victory over the stroncr Mishawaka
b . 

Eighteen 

j 
~ 
THE :SEASO"f\T'S REl'IE11' OF 1920 
temn, scooping up a pass, and n1aking ·the "rinning tally in the wee n1on1cnts · of the contest. The tcmn as a whole was 
8 "'ell-coached scrappy bunch. · 
\VALSH ·HALL 
Suffering fro·1~1 injuries in the very be­

ginning of the season, the gold coasters 
"'ere at the outset on the defensive. 
Generally represented by a strong 
eleven, this year the \Valshites did not 
show up. to their usual forn1. They "'ere 
not 'vithout their. stars, however. John 
Cavanaugh, playing his first year of foot­
ball, showed wonderful defensive "'ork, 
and should develope into a. star in sev­.eral Inore seasons. 

CARROLL HALL 

\Valsh, Stanhope, _:Martin, Fr. Gassen­.~nnith, Ternes, Randall, O'Connell,. Con-· nell, Brenn~1n, Conic)~ (Coach). 
LelVIont," Aviles, lVIcGivern, DcCorps (Capt.}, Riglcy, Berra. 
Bltun, Raf-l'erty, Johnson. 
This is the first year. Carroll Hall has ·been represented· in the jnter-hall fra­cas, and if present strength is an indica­
lion in a fe"' years the "prep" temn :will be one of the strongest in the league. Captained by DeCorps, the flashy quar­ter, the temn was never beaten until the last whistle finished its echo. Berra, Aviles,. \Valsh and· O'Connell are 1nen who were taught their football· at Notre Dmne,. and these kind never give up. Connell was unaniinous choice for the all-interhall temn, and his "'ork for the · prep temn was of the highest quality. 

THE lVIINil\'iS 

"\Vc raise our own." Look at this group of sturdy young athletes, and you will find additional reason for the ·suc­cess· of the Notre Dmne Varsity. They are trained froni the lVIinhn Deparhnent to do everything that a Varsity n1an does, frmn kicking and passing to of-f-tackle plays and cross-bucks. To watch a lVI~niin gmne (they are cluunpions ·of their· class in this vicinity) is to sec a Varsity contest in Ininiature. 
Norinan Barry, '20 stellar half-back on the Gold and Blue·eleven, "'as taught the rudiincnts of running, dodging and "fighting" in the Notre Daine Grannnar · School; he is the ideal type of Varsity 
llUln. . . 
Long live the l\'liniins. 
:\'ineleen 


T·H.E SEASOJ.l,S .REYI-E1V ·OF 1_..920 

©OO®TI@~ .··_~)]]ll@&3 

I LOVE GEORGE GIPP · "Do you love n1e," he said, as he played with a strand of dark hair that had skirted the end of her hair-net? ."No;" she re!Jlied, ringing her hands · like a fire bell, and turning her head de­liberately away fro~n hiln, "I love George Gipp." "But you can't love George Gipp," he retaliated," "because yot~ have never seen hiln. He n1ay be a rough, uncouth fel­lo\v \vith bow legs and surely you couldn't love a man like that." "I love George Gipp," she said, as the engii1e of her being, her heart, turned over again and a sigh escaped frmn her lips. "Didn't· the papers say he flashed brilliancy; that he was the essence of versatility; that he Inoved \vith the grace 'of an antelope-didn't it? . "Yes, dear, it said all that, and that sin1ply referred to football. Off the field he Inay be ungainly and savage looking. He Inay chew tobacco, swear and carry sulphur nlatches. You know nle, dear, and you kno\V I love you n1ore than all the alfalfa in the world.': · · "I love George Gipp," she blubbered . out again, as both eyes flowed like broken rain pipes. "I·love ·hiJn because he 's1nashed throug~1 ~enter' and 'lore a line to shreds' and 'galloped' and . 'zig­zagged,' and 'jmnnl.ed' and 'criss"':'crossed' and 'hurled' 'n everything." "But you've never seen hiln, .deary, and 
I 
you just· can't love a lllan you've never. seen;" suppose he turned up here to~nor­row and you found hiln to be ri red­
I 
I 
he a d e d, freckled-faced son-of-a-sap­sucker. You'd faint when you looked at
I.I 
hiln-I kno\v you \Vould." "I love George Gipp,'' she still per­sisted as her lmnps geysered forth an­other torrent of \Vater and her clothes hegan to ·shrink. 
Twenty 
I 
The youth left her and.hurriecl toward the lake \vith red cusses in his heart for George Gipp, \yhmn he considered an All-An1erican hea1~t bi·eaker. · 
T. E~ B. 
·OUR ALPHABET 

A is for Anderson, Hartley and Ed Had they opponents? ·\Vhy spe~k of the dead? Ar1ny cried out e'ei· h~r temn-Inates had 
sunk · \Vhen you go after Ed \Vatch ·out for 
Hunk. · · 

B is for Brandy, a bantmn, that's all­Lisping in niunbers and passing the ball,· Folks call hiln three star, I guess you 
. know why, . · His stellar work. opens Inany an eye. C is for Coughlin, our captain-'nuff 
said, . . . He has the build and the drive and the 
·.head; If you are skeptical con1e out smne day \Vhen he's at practice and stand in ·his · 
way. Gis for Georgie \vho kno\vs no restraint, \Vhose a Inan? He's a n1an-dmnnedif­
. heaint, Half-back and .lin.e plunger, punter su­
preine;. · · Arn1y thought Gipp, by hhnself, \Vas a 
temn. ·. · . K is for Kiley, his \Vork has.been rare; Roger pulls passed right out of the ·air, 
.He's a real bear, ·on \Vhon1 Rock can· depend, · Many a nl.an ha~ died skirting hi~ end. L is for Larson. th~ pivotal nian,. Lately the idol of n1any a fan; Shoulders of concrete and 1nuscles of 
stone, · . If you love e·arthly life leave hhn alone. M is for lVIohardt, the. fleet.:.footed one, How. he :can travel-that·son-of-a-gun! Give· hhn the pigskin, the rest is a cinch­Leave it to John \vhen the temn's in a pinch. N is for Nor1nie, you've probably he~rd People ~ailed ·bear cats-but Barry's a 
. bird. · . Players on oth~r temns give :UP the race 
,rl
-
THE SEASON'S REVJE·1~1 OF 1920 
\Vhen they see Nortn 1nakjng yardage through space. · P is for Paul, his intelligent toe Puts.griln despair in the lines of the foe. Straight through the line 1ike a shot frmn a gun-Castner is off for a twenty-yard run. l\tlany another nu1n, Garvy and Hayes, Marl); and others deserve equal praise, Let not their deeds be forgotten by you­Each of Lhen1 wore the old gold and true blue. 
ONE OLD TilVIER DISCOVERS ANOTHER 
T. A. DALY 

This is hbit of garrulous gab frmn an old-thner, 'vhich the writer fervently hopes 'viii not he returned to hiln 'vith the custmnary polite ~~ejection slip by the editor of "The Notre Dmne Football Re­view" for 1920; for if N..D. "roil't print it, no one else 'viii. 
Let n1e hasten to gel in right, frmn the start, by announcing that this is n1ostly · a boost for Notre Dmne. There is, of course a kick in it, but it's only a trifle 1nore thail half of one per cent. .Pray, pardon that, and let us get to our Inut­ton. Let us ennilate the ren1arkable, right-to-the-pointiveness of a yo u n g won1an of this supj)osedly. slow burg of Philadelphia 'vho w0-s strolling with a nice young 1nan under the June n1oon. "l\1ay I," he stannnered, "call you by your first nmne." "You Inay call' n1e by !JOlll' · last nmne if you 'vish," she said. 
Now, I hav~ before n1e a copy of the. "Football Review" for 1919. · It was sent to n1e for the purpose of nu1king Iiie fall 
.so deeply in love with Notre Dmne as to induce a prmnpt acknowledgn1ent of Iny affections. It wasn't necessary. I fell in love with Notre Dmn.e a long, long while ago, and this.passion has grown 'vith the passing years. I have noted, too, with pride quite un1nixed 'vith jealousy, that I mn· not the only lover of Notre Dmne here in the East. Her a(bnirers have in­creased by leaps and bounds (of the heart); and the exploits of the ''Fighting Irish" are largely responsible for. this.. There is nothing so engaging as a 1nanlynuin. · 
It "ras Iny pleasure a few short weeks ago to 'va,ch these "Fighting Irish" be­
ing put through their paces by theincmn­parable Rockne. It 'vas practice pr~linl­inary to the Valparaiso gmne, but of course, the big figure ·lomning up in· every i1nagination 'vas the A1~1ny cadet, to be 1net later at \Vest Point-and de­feated, as usual. That practice 'vas iin­pressive. I 'vas particularly taken 'vith the eagerness with 'vhich the· Freslnnen responded when Rockne· called then1 in to take their punislnnent. · There 'vere 
· "future-greats" aplenty in that squad. It isn't necessary to brag about the "Var­sity." I carry no card in the Refined Gold Gilders' or the Lily Painters' Union. \Vithout detracting at all fro1n the fmne 
·of the Coughlins (Little \Villie arid Dan­nie) or the Andersons, Kiley, Brandy, \Vynne, S1nith or Sha"r, 1nay I be per­Initted to say that the nmnes of these "fighting Irish," Lar·son, Gipp, l\tlohardt­niost appealed to n1e? They did, and for a special reason, 'vhich brings Ine to the n1ain point of this story. 
If, l\tlr. Editor, you have before you, as I have, a· copy of your excellent ~'Foot­ball Review" for HH9, I 'vould ask you to turn to it and look just inside the front door. On page 2 ycni.will find the picture of a group of young 1nen, 'vho are no'v rather ancient. The caption reads: "1887 -Captain Cusick and His First Squad of Fighting Irish." To our eyes today they are. a strange lot. Their innnaculately white shirts and tight pants (unpadded) and the equally candid cmivas s_traight­jackets hearing the letters N. D. pron1pt 
-the whilnsical suggestion that those char­acters stand for "No Dirt." Or, since there are only eleven n1en all told in· the squad, the letters n1ay 1nean "Never Dmi1aged." 
I ~~n esl)ecially drawn to the ~stahvart figure in the center of the picture _,vho · holds the football in the curve ·of his left a~·n1. It was c~1stmnary ·in those days, I suppose, as no,v, to assign the custody of the ball to the caplain, 'vhen the learn posed for its picture. If that's so, the temn of 1887 "ras connnanded by a ·~·ringer!" "Captain Cusick?" Nonsense! This particiil~lr celt. is .no other than Henry B. Luhu, ·son of the late :Major G. 
B. Luhu, one-tilne con1nuuulant of Fort Niobrara, Nebraska, an d no 'v-it's "Hank" of___:a n1an of ilnporlance in Spo­kane, \Vashington. 
You can't fool n1e about old "Hank" Luhu! "I knew hiin well, Horatio." In 
Twentu-One 

J. 

THE SEAS 0 N' S· 
fact, it was he who ahnost pulled 111e to Notre Dmne, when, in the fall of ~87 I 'vas looking about for new acade1nic fields to conquer, and was given· by n1y long suffering father, the choice of Ford­hain .or Notre Dmne. I was fond of hoine-cooked Thanksgh'ing and C_hrist­n~as turkey in those days, and-felt disin­clined to "'ander far away, otherwise_. but not n1atter. Anyway a special provi­dence seen1s to 'vatch over Notre Dmne. -I 'vent to Fordhmn. 
Hank "'cnt to Notre Dmne and passed . smnewluit out of n1y life for a tiine. but he had been very n1uch in it for several long·years, 'vhen ''~c were at Villanova together. One day when Hank and I "'er_e pursuing that branch of our college education which interested· us n1ost, he thrc\V a baseball frmn the outfield which I · didn't sec coining. :i.Vly .hack· was turned. The ball hit pltunh in the· center of what is now a. prmninent bald spot. It hurt. Hank said it was an. accident, hut I "'ouldn't listen to reason. I went for hiin like a terrier, hut Hank was pretty nuiCh of a Inastiff. He shook Inc, 
· laughing all the tiine-his _laugh was al­'v a y s exaspcrating-a n d finally h e spanked Ine. I never forgave "Hank" for that, until I squared accounts a few years later. He 'vas interne at St. Agnes' Hospital, Philadel1Jhia, in the early '90's ·when I 'vas a cub reporter on the Phila­delphia Record. The young doctors at St. Agnes' were in the habit of boxing, in off hours, in-a· quiet corner of the hos­pital. I put on the 1nitts with "Hank," and 'vent-af hiin with furious alarcity. ''Hank" laughed so hard at1ny ring forn1 that he "'as-quite unable to defend hiin­self. I knocked hhn over a bed. 
Perhaps it "'as to brag about this feat 

-that I have turned out this bunch of garqulit)r-"laudator tcnlporis acti, se puero"-hut I hope better things than that \viii be believed of 1ne. It is always a pleasure for n1e to talk to, or of, Notre Dmne n1en, and "Hank" Luhu is one of your old boys of whmn you should be proud. How Inuch he figured in foot­ball, I don't kno\v, but I do kno\v that he pu:Iled a Inighty· oa1~ when N. D. had a cre\v. He has since done credit to his Ahna Mater in the larger affairs of the big world outside. It 'vas a joy to n1e to con1e again so suddenly and unexpect­edly face to face with hiin in the '~Foot­
'I ball Review" of last year. 
-: 
Twenty-Two 
R E J' IE 1~' 0 F 1 9 2 0 
TO ~'SlVIITTY" 

lVIovie, good bye! the boys will surely . n1iss you. They liked your cheerful sxnile and quiet way, The girls, God bless 'en1 all, will "'ant to kiss you, It ga:ve thexn spirit just to sec you play. A thousand hearts are sad to see you leaving, The n1en1ory of your deeds will never die; . Renieinber, dear. old pal, the fans are grieving, l\'Iovic, good bye! 
TO BRANDY 

He-I know a quarter-hack I1ot half n1y · size.· · · She-It can't be so? He-He's ycry light hut oh he's surely . \VISe. She-Do you n1can Joe? He-There's not a faster back in all the land._ Shc-I guess you;rc right. He-He runs his tcmn to beat the very band. She-He sure has fight. He-But Joe is leaving no"'• let's say good bye. Shc-I feel so queer. Hc-\Vhat's that that sccn1s to sn1older in your eye? She-That's just a tear. He-You're sad but show the boys )~ou've got the pluck. She-Just watcll.n1e show. He-Good bye old Joey hoy, we wish vou 
luck. · • She-God ·bless you J oc. 
DAVE HAYES 

Old Dave Hayes was a xnighty old end And a n1igh ty old end was he By Gosh! He broke up plays in a dozen .different · "'ays · And his nmnc "'as Old Dave Hayes By Go~h! 
t\ 
T H E S E A S 0 r.,r ' S 
Old Dave Hayes is going away And he's going a'vay to stay By Gosh! 
But eycrybody_ knows that .wherever · Da\ric goes · He'll bing the other fellow on the nose, 
By Gosh! Old Dave Hayes will be 1nissed next year He'll be 1nissed as he never 'vas before 


By Gosh! He'll be interrupting passes, thrown by SOIUC charining lasses For the gii·ls kno"' '"here the class is all the tiine · By Gosh! 
lVIAURICE STARRETT 
STUDE~T l\'lANAGEH 
This is a hard task. Starrett has per­forJned his nu1ny duties as assistant to _Rockne in a n1anner truly befitting to a

I
,_. 
"Notre ·panic nian." Unassuniing, al­"'ays friendly, Starrett has gone abo!1t l his· work unselfishly with the interests of . t the temn always foren1ost in his Inind, and has "'on the staunch friendship of his coach and the adtniration of the en­tire student body. In addition to his 
I 
student" activities he is a n1onogrmnedI hurdler. 
I CHEER KING SLAGGERT 
l 
The football renaissance at Notre! Dmne has been credited to n1any differ­ent things, but the real success of Notre
.! 
Dmnc, at hmne, has scarcely been deeply speculated on. The success 'vhich has 

I 
l brought the unprecedented crowds. the . 
I turbulent sideline n1asses and hundreds of newly Inade football fans to Cartier Field is largely to the credit of one n1an.
i
I 
That n1an is Alfred Slaggert, Notre Dmne's first real sure-enough cheer king'l de luxe. Slaggert's "'ork last year clearly entitled hiin to the position 'vhichl he holds this year as Notre Dmne's first cheer leader and probable n1onogrmn n1an. "AI" detnonstrated his organiz­ation, personality and controlling abili­ties on several successful occasions inI I i919 when the "cheering gmne" at Notre Dmne was at its lowest ebb. Fron1 the
!­
thne Slaggert look hold of things there ! j "'as no doubt as to the quality of the
i 
student support either vocal or 1nornl onl any occasion needed. It was there, be-
I 
! 
I 
R E ·y I E 1~' 0 F 1 9 2 0 
cause "AI" could bring it out. "AI" first successfully_ led the hundreds of Gold and Blue followers to a rooting victory over Indiana's "howling host" of thou­s~nds. This year the rooting on Cartier Field has easily been the eqt1al of that exhibited by any schools in the Inid-,vest. Visiting almnni, old students and friends have lavishly con1pliinented the uni­versity on the restilts that have con­stantly been shown by Cheer King Slaggert and his aides, Burke and Eck­erle. Ceaseless drilling efforts and an unfailing spirit" on Alfreil Slaggert's part has 1nade Notre Dmne. cheering and 
. student support what nuu1y old tiniers have dremned it should be; . "lVIore power to you," AI. 
\VHO IS IT? \Vho is it that we like to see stand out before the crowd? \Vho is it has the rolling ,;oice so thun­derously loud? \Vho is it of whon1 all the school is very justly proud? · · Little \Villi~. \Vho is it tackles anything no 1natter what it be·? · · \Vho is it that above the heads of other n1an can sec? \Vho is it that before a foe was neve1~ known to· flee? Little \Villie. \Vho is it now for whmn "'e weave a wreath of laurel green? And con1e 'vith all the stateliness that ever yet was seen. . And as he bows his tital forin· we slip it on his-bean? · Litlle \Villic. 
l\'IAURICE "lVIOVIE" Sl\HTH 
Thanksgiving Day, Nhieteen Hundred and Twenty, witnessed the h1st appear­ance of nun1crous stars in college foot­ball. Atnong stars even, there ai·e son1e greater than others, greater in that· far­r~aching brilliancy 'vhich they radiate round about lhen1, and, mno:i1g-stars too, there is always one whose lust'i·ous shafts outshine, outpoint and outglittcr his fel­lows. The collegiate football seasonjust closed had its galaxy of hnninarics, each position "'as well and nobly defended and chmnpioncd. Frmn end to end and 
Twenty-1'/zree 
., 
.,, .. 


.. 
1 0 
THE SEASO"f\T'S REVIE1V OF 1920 
! . 
I 
i 
l 
! I r 
i 
I 
i 
r i :' '·i 

THE SEASQl\T'S 

frmn quarter-back to full-back; in order to justly pick an All-An1crican Temn, a truly non-partial critic \Vould of neces­sity be cmupclled to place ·on such a temn approxiinatcly one hundred. play­.ers. To n1crcly choose eleven is wrong -wrong because of the siinple reason that there are 1nore than eleven. There are so 1nany n1en for the half-back posi­tions that are on a par, all cqua]ly good. \Veigh this quality, or that, cmnparc this ability or .that and still the critic finds n1ore than, just two half-backs. Take the full-backs and the smne holds good. Take the quarters and you ·are. con­fronted \Vilh a like problen1. Take the ends and again the difficulty repeats itself. Take the tackles and you find the smne trouble. Take the center and once n1orc you have food (or argtnnent. Take even the guard position, that ofleft guard and you will find n1ore than one that arc all equally \Vondepful, equally powerful and equally sufffcient .for any temn­BUT!-Take. the position of right guard, and there is no need to look about for Inore than one, for there is but one right guard. . You cxclaiin, '·'\Vhal! Only one I~lan.for the right gua,rd position?" Stop for an instant, consider for a n1on1cnt, cmnpare statistics, look at results and then draw your own conclusion. An ideal guard n1ust be able to do 1nore things· . than just \Vear a suit apd belong to the favorite .'~Frat." He ~1eed not of necessity be, spectacu}ar-'--thc 1~eal guard never is. He nurst \Vork, first of all, wilh the temn as part of the tcmn, and he n1ust get his n1an.. He nurst not only figh_t,. but fight hard and at the smne tiine fair. He Blust not only nuike holes for his backfield, he n1ust he hole-proof hiinself. He Blust not only be able to tackle hut he nurst he able to tackle hard. In a word, he n1ust not only be irre1~1ovahle and ·iinpenetra­hlc on defense but he nursl be irrepressi­ble and irresistible on offense. Handi­caps, no n1atler \Vhat 1nay be their na­ture, \Vill fail to stop hinl.. These are son1e of ·the qualifications, physical in kind that the real star guard should ha-\•e and radiate. Besides these, the real star guard, as far as n1ental attributes tlrc concerned, is as unassun1ing and quiet as· he \Vas physically Gggressive and active. He never played because he sought the adulation and cheers of the spectators-he played because he \Vanted his temn to \vin, .he. fought· because he was a true son of his Ahna l\tlater-he 
Twenty-Six 
RE1'IE·1~' OF 1920 
·worked because there was Inorc n1usic, 1nore app~·ccia tion, n1ore praise in the gruff, curt, sharp, "nice work" con1ing frmn the Coach than in any other forn1 of ·notice. If a fcllo\v-playcr, a fello\v­tcanuuatc \Vas hud, h~ ahvays gave ·a helping hand, and if an opponent \Vas injured he was always the first to give aid or to seck it. His school and his tcmn first, his opponents second, hiinsclf last. In street clothes a n1an-in foot­hall togs a fightii}g nu1n, and in the csti­nlation and hearts of all who knc\V hiin, an All-An1crican n1an-such is the greatest right guard of the 1920 season, 1\'Iauricc "'Movie" Sn1ith, our All-Anicri­can·Right Guard. 
-. 
FROl\tl TEXAS 

· Praise of individuals would seen1 to be the proper substance ·of a Revie\V of Notre Dmne Football Temns of the last dec·adc:·-During that period a goodly n u 111 b e r of players have achieved national distinction. So1ne of U1e1n have deservedly obtained. title to .All-Anleri­can rating. j\ll have added to the glory of the Gold and Blue. 
Bl.rt thei·e is another poi.nt of vie\V equally \Vorthy of attention.. Let praise of individuals be in this instance set aside and consideration be given to the ilnpressive fact that, however splendid 1nay have been the achieveBJents of in­dividual players, ·pernianei1ce of high class temn-play, year in and year out, has becmne truly characteristic Qf the grid­iron Inen of N oJre DaB~ c. 
\Vhether or not Rockne he the re­sourceful coach now, or Harper, as in the days when Rockne was his pupil and later his assistant, it Blalters little; the n1en \Vho have directed the energies and sti1nillated the genius of the players, and they then1sclves, \vho have been thus directed and sliinulated, have dedicated their efforts to the success of the tcmn idea so faithfully and so persistently, that success has followed upon their . efforts with unfailing regularity. The reputation ·of possessing pcnnanent .power, season after season, has set upon their skill a n1ark of distinction \Vhich has enabled critics to pass judgtncnt not only on the relative abilities of notable individual at)1letes but also upon the relative Blerits of 1nany of the leading tean1s of the country. And· that smne 
T .H E · S E A S 0 N ' S · R E V I E 1V 0 F 1 9 2 0 
' . 
reputation of possessing pernunient power 'viii continue to give to the nlono­granl of the Gold and Blue a glory that is 'veil 'vorth striving for. There is satisfaction in the thought· that. Notre Drin1e has built solidly the foundation upon which is to rest the glory of her athletes. 
GRIDIRON GENEALOGY 
Smncbody ought to write a history of football and smnebody else ought to lecture on the subject three titnes. a "reck. Think how popular a course it w.ould be and how easy for the professor: no nniCldle-hcadcd questions, no absences, no ponies, and no conditonal "exmns !" Really, football history is of just as In~uch iinportance as the story· of the ancient Patagonians or tl_1c )dugs of ~~1.gland. The writer could call Ius work l\.Ick Chron­icles," or "Pigskin Papers" or, if l~e had studied in Ger1nany, "The Evolution of the Cheerleader; a Study in Insanity." He could usc the diction of ancient ti1nes and speak of Sir Knights charging down the lea; and, e~ercising' his scientific genius, he n_1ight construct all sorts of bypothcscs to account for the fact that Notre Dmnc is not in the Conference. 
This brings us to what "rc 'vantcd ~? say. This old school would stand out In football history as a Napolconic dynasty that never saw \Vatcrloo. Over in Australia they tell of Sir George Gipp who as governor. of the Island routed the Buslunc'n·; but oiu· own George sn1ashed the An1erican Anny! P. T. Barnuin hrought back. Jutnbo's scalp frmn India once; we have t~1kcn it frmn Indianapolis twice. lVIany .outposts have been cap­tured in battle, hut nobody except Notre Dari1c ever ran a'vay with goal-posts. Philbrook and Sunnybrook had the smne effect on folks years ago, and since the passage of the Volstead Act, Brandy has intoxicated thousands. There is nothing that figures in victory like a \\:ynn~ and the last but not least," the only K1ng I\.nute we recognize in this Republic live~ in South Bend, Indiana. \Vc could conhnue indefinitely, but J)apcr is scarce. Any­how. we (io not 'vish to convey the iin­prcssion·lhat "re are as iinpartial as \Val­ier Cmnp. · 
Football is not scholarship, but neither 
is war. Hindcnburg has no 'n1orc con­
ce1~n with the culture of the n1ind than Eichenlaub. But the ungentle· art of transporting the pigskin has Incant a great deal to the lads at Notre Dmne.. It has told .folks about the place and ehnl­inatcd a big supply of supercilious eye~ bro,v-raising :when 've told then1 'vhe-re our degrees were going to cmne . fro1n. The con1n1on people in ,.\rl1on1 've trust have learned all about Notre Dmne fron1 the score-board. They can't be told that there is no such -place 'vhen they have seen the Gold and Blue on 1nany a ·field. Sooner or later they 'viii discover-are 

. discovering-the other side.s of the ge!l­ius of Notre Dmne, and tlus school 'viii inherit the dignity for 'vhich it has "labored so long. 
There! \Ve have .dra"'n one n1oral fron1 our history. It 'vasn't done inten­tionally but we'll leave it. \Vhcn 've chuckle over the temn that did big things this year, let us ren1en1ber the great and goodly n1en of the pa~t: Salinon and Dorais, Edwards and Fitzgerald, Farley and Hmnillon, and Pliska and Elward and l.VIiller and ·a hundred n1ore-n1en, an· of thenl, who put their best into the gmne and establishc·d a trad~tion .which 

·we n1ust 'vork our heads oft. to hvc up to. \Vhen Coughlin and Barry and Gipp und the rest of those 'vho take sheep­skins with thcn1 next June leave the field for history we can only say 'vith the poet· that they go with· a glorious cmnpany; that they can wrap the drapery of their blankets about thc1n and lie down to pleasant dremns. As for us, 'vc'rc not going to li:c down at all. 've'rc going to give nine 'rahs for evcrybod)~· 
TO NORl\I 
\Ve've watched you fron1 the lVIiniins up, 'Twas here you lived and grew And that's perhaps the reason why· \Ve are so proud of you. You learned to run at Notre D~in1e, · Fron1 dodging prefects 'oft, So otit upon the football field The running gmnc was soft. You brought us nuu1y to~1chdowns, Nonn, You nuHle the foe's stand 1noan, \Ve cheered you n1ore than all the rest B~cause you are our own. Good luck .be yours, no n1atter "rhere your lot in life is cast, And to"rard the goal posts of success \Vc know you'll travel fast. 
Twentu-Se11en 
THE S E. AS 0 l\T' S 

i 
THE SEASON BY AncHIE \VAno "I'ri1 happy," sighed the \Vhale after ·he had dined upon the succulent Colonel ·Jonah. and restnned his swhn to quicken ; his digestion. In which the \Vhale had
I 
. i nothing whatever on the Notre Dan1e 
. I 
i 
football fan today-that vast sport loving 
i fandmn of the gold and blue that will s'vann forth soon for the holiday vaca­tion. 
The greatest era of sporting activity in the history of Notre Dmne was concluded 'vith the faded football season. Last year's ui1~lefeated gridiron cmnpaign · was a Inerry prelude. . 
.. All our best young superlatives are Justified in fashioning the review of the 1920 football season. It 'viii stand stark alone as the_n1ost prosp.erous both frmn the standpoint of sterling colnpetition
.. 
a~ul fron1 the box oflice viewpoint in the history.of the gmne. Successive victories over Kalmnazoo, \Vestern Nonnal, Ne­ln·a~ka, Valparaiso, \Vest Point, Purdue, Inch?-na, No_r,th\\;estern and the lVIichigan .Agg~es n1er1t the undisputed chmnpion­. ship of the \\'est for the gmnest bunch of .~thletes_. that eve~· stepped on a gridiron. ~ .1-i.pproxunately eighty-five thousand fans 
sa'v Notre Dmne in action this esason. Before the cur~ai.n is rung down coni­. pletely on 192q football it Inight be well ~o shower prmses 'vhere conunendation Is due. During the last three Inonl.hs a host of individuals· have· risen to heroic heights in their endeavors to achieve glory on the gridiron. Not alone have the players responded with unusual suc­cess but several coaches have aspired to fmne and clasped hands with that elusive deity. During t_he season that officially ended Thanksgiving day we find no individuals so deserving of attention as Knute Rockne, Notre Dmne's illustrious coach, and Frank Coughlin, captain of the greatest.tea~n that ever represented a \\'estern Institution. Rockne, 've believe, stands forth as the n1ost successful coach in Atnerica this season. After the. Notre Dmne-Artny gmne at \Vest Point last .October the cadets "'ere certain that Rockne is the greatest football tutor in thG world and that he ought to run for president oi· smnething like thal. Rockn<: developed an mnazing offence out of light but speedy n1aterial. He 

Trventu-Eigllt 
. I I 
R E Y IE 1V 0 F 1 9.2 0 
brought to \Vest' ·Point lVIohardt, Barry, \Vynne and Bt•andy, a quartet of line sinashers that hardly have been~ eciualled this season. And he did not rely entirely upon the strength of these youngsters, but. developed a n1ystifying overhead attack with the scintillating Gipp in the van, whose accuracy in hurling the oval was uncanny. Rockne never left a loop­hole in his squad and deserves all the glory that went to Notre Dmne "'hen it cracked the Anny for a 27 to 17 triuniph. 
Rockne's backs had an mnazing 'vay of piling through the forwards and to the se~ondary defense. Every n1an who re­C<:Ived the ball started like a sprinter. His early n1on1entun1 carried hhn crash­ing into the line, and nine tiines out of teh he n1ade a hole· for hiinself if one 
·was not already there. Then it 'vas up to the secondary defense to check his advance. · It was· astonishing to the on­lookers to see the Notre Dmne backs ao through that big Ar1ny line so easi~'. \Vest Point and the critics in attendance learned a lot of football at that amne which they ne-\rer expected to kno"~ 
Notre Dmne was fortunate indeed in h~ving a captain the calibre of Frank Coughlin. \Vhen a football temn lacks fighting spirit the captain is invariably at fault. \Vhen an aggregation fails to fight through the crisis of the cmnpaign we lool~ to the leader for the reason. It "'as evident to devotees of the gold and blue at the outset that the success ·of the season would depend in a large n1easure upon. the quali.Ly of leadership Coughlin JH"OVIded. For hhn it was the test. The club carried every other essential than the n1ental wallop-a n1ost vital factor at a crucial Inon1ent in a pennant struggle. 
. Coughlin's success as a captain is in­disputable. The recent .imn was a test d?wn to bech;ock for his ability as a lead­ei of n1en. Notre Dmne the past auttunn "'as fmned for its high powei~ed n1ental snu~sh. Frmn the thne the boys lined up agmnst Kalmnazoo early in Octobei· to the final blast of the 'vhistle on Turkey d_ay they blazed away with a gallina in either fi~t. Da"'clling found no plac~ in the rouhne of the gold and blue. Notre Dmne ca~Tied an abundant supply of pepper _with all the natural dynmnite of Coughln~. few le~ders ever got their personality Into their club to such aood ef!ect as Coughlin. It was as natural for Ius temn to fight as it is (or a fuzzy gos­
TH·E SE·ASO-rl'S REYIE11' OF 19.20 
ling to strike oul in a breast strol~e on  
the. occasion of its initial plunge.  
Consider the avhieven1en t of the Irish  
\Varriors, for exmnple, in the. Indiana  
gmne at Indianapolis, Noven1ber 13. Con­ 
sider the outlook at the slart of the fourth  
quarter with the count 10 to 0 against  
•i I  Lhen1 and the Crilnson nu1ehine operat­ing after the nu1nner of a eresting \Vave beating towards the beach. Did they fold, did they wither under  
Lhe assault? Not on your so-called tin­ 
I  type. The change \Vas ilntnediate and con1plete. Their feather duster attack  
!  becmne a bruising barrage. The old  
I  spirit of battle surged in the collective Noll'e Dmne breast; they began to fight.  
Alul lest we forget we'll 'vhisper this  
I I  here-that when the· Irish are fighting! they need bow to nq temn in the gmne. The final period had hardly got under­ 
I I l I I I  way before the storn1 broke after the ftishion of a volcano that had just de­cided to erupt. The sprightly details are known to all. lVIenacing jabs at the Indiana line by Barry, .lVIoliardt and \Vynne, lightening­ 
like forward and lateral passes with in­ 
terference as fast and alert as the west  
had seen this season and above all brainy  
generalship by Joe Brandy proved ~l con~­ 
bination too powerful for Coach Shelnn s  
confident perforn1ers and before the  
sn1oke screen \Vas lifted fro1n the field  
Notre Dmne had rung up a brace of  
touchdowns ·and tucke'd the pastiine in  
the refrigerator with the rest of the  
swecln1et1Ls. And after that? \Vith Ethel  
Barryn1ore we say-"There isn't any  
1110re."  
During the Harvard-Princeton gmne  
son1e one asked Captain lVIcE,van, the old  
Ar1ny star, 'vhat sort of football player  
I ;..., !  Gipp 'vas. "He isn't a football player," replied lVIcEwan. "He's a \vild stallion  
·running mnuck."  
NOTRE DAlVIE ON THE GRIDIRON  
This is Notre Dmne's llzirly-second  
f oolball season. ,., .  
11re started llze gcune in 1887 hy.losing  
to lVIichigan, 8 to 0.  
l\'Iichigan had been playing six years  
and canw down to teach us the ga1ne.  

Since then \Ve have played 220 games, winning 168, losing 36 and tying .16. 
Previous to this year 1.Votre D(une.lzas scored 57Ll2 points to her opponents' 100Ll, proving the constant quality of our elevens. 
The undefGated 1920 squad is the eleventh undefealed N olre Danw learn in history. Can any ·other school say as 
lllUCh? . 
The N olre D(une .scoring record. \\"as n1ade in 1905 when we walked over· the An1erican lVIedical College of Chicago, 140 to 0. . 
Our worst drubbing was taken frmn \Visconsin in 1904 \Vhen they walloped our coachless eleven, 58 to 0. ·. 
Iri 1912 Luke Kelly's lea1n scored 389 points to our opponents' -27, the rec0rd to ·date. 
Notre Dmne was not scored upon in 1889 or 1'903. · 
Notre Dmne has won a clear title to the slate cluun.pionslzip for fourteen lfear.f) hy defeating title .contenders such as Indi~1na, \Vabash and Purdue. 
Tlze slate clzanzpionslzip has been awarded Notre Danie on ten other counts by cmnparative scores and na­tional standing. 
Nebraska has been beaten in three of six; gmnes, one was a tie. 
1Ve. have nwt N orllzweslern four thnes previous to this year and won two, lost one and tied one.· 
In eleven· battles with Purdue for the stale title we have \Von six, lost three and lied two gmnes. 
\Ve have also battled with Indiana on eleven occasions, resulting in six gmnes won, four lost and one lied. 
Notre Dmne's first invasion of the cast was in 1909 'vhen "Red" lVIiller's temn \Valloped Pittsbui·g, 6 to 0. Since that tilne fourteen other invasions of the ,~ast have resulted in eleven notable victories, three defeats and one 0 to 0 tie. 
N olre Da1iw's vicliJns in llze east in­clude the Al'lny on five occasions, PHts­burg twice,· with o'ne tie; Penn State, Syracuse and Carlisle; 
.1ozu;neying info the souththe Gold and Blue has p_resented a perfect record of three victories in three gmnes. The un­defeated Texas "Longhorns" fell twice and Rice Institute fell by a 55 to 2 store.
. . 
1'wenlti..:Ninc 

•,/ 
If 
( 
i THE SEASQl\T'S 
I. 
THE SPIRIT OF THE TEAl\'I 

Two seasons without a defeat or a tie score is no n1ean record for any football temn. Seldo1~1 does a temn_-'or-· ·calibre accmnplish ~uch result if it~:: opp_onents 
I 
'I be of equal standing with itself. :Most of I the recognized top~notch aggregations of both the East and the \Vest play n1orc n1ediocre temns than good ones during the course of their schedules; and their· hard gmnes are so arranged that no two of then1 will fall within a period of two 
'veeks. Thus a week of rest generally precedes a big gmne. Noll;e Dmne, how­ever, has not lJeen particular as to the succession of fortnidable foes on her schedule after the first hvo at the open­ing of the season. Frmn the first real ga~n1e until the end of the season no 1nediocre elevens find place on the Gold and Blue schedule, and there occur no rest-weeks to in·epare the temn for its next wor"thy opponent.

.I 
Practically every temn frmn husky Nebraska to the aggressive :Michigan "Aggies" was pointed toward one gmne -that with Notre Dmne. These temns nursed along their best n1en, keeping then1 out of preceding gmnes in order that they n1ight be in their best fonn for 


: :i !j 
·_!I 
'111 
. ~ 
·H,, )i 
l 
il ·I 
'I 
II 
REVIE11' OF 1920 
the battle with· Notre Dmne. Li.ttle did they care, it seen1s,'for victory oyei· other Lemus; a successful season llleant above all a trhnnph o,;e~· Not1·c Dmi1e.· Under such: condilions has the Gold and Bh1e battled succe~sfully on the gridiron for the last two years, and it is 'vith not a little pardonable pride that the student­body and the ahunni of the Univei~sity look ·back on the glorious achievetnents of:the Lemus of 1919 and 1920. 
It is a striking fact in our victories.over Nebraska, Valparaiso, \Vest Point, and Indiana that each of these opponents scored first, and that then the Vat~sity ·struck its stride.and turned the tide to victory for itself. Throughout the sea­son the n1orale of the .temn 'vas 100 per cent and a handicap score of. ten points or so by the opposition only served to arouse the fighting and 'vinning spirit of Captain Coughliii's n1en. \Vhen on. the~e occasions the temn cmne frmn belund 111 the 1niddle or last quarter of the con~test it was surcharged 'vith a driving force that was irresistible and 'vhich in every instance scored a final victory. Such is the spirit that enabled _Notre Dmne to achieve a record of two years without a defeat and to lay good clahn to the chmnpionship title in \yestern football. 

THE SEAS.ON'S REV1E11( O.F 19.20 

i 
L t 
AUGUST DESCH 
"Gus" Desch, hurdling agahist the world's fore1nost lin1ber toJ)pers put up a gritty exhibition of Notre Dan1e fight at the Olyn1pic gmnes, when he finished third, a bare two yards behind Lomnis, in the four-fourty high barrier go. Lomnis cleared in fifty-four flat, toppling the world record for that event which 
<_:ius Desch 
w~1s one of the n1ost thrilling contests of the big n1eet. "Gus" is a hurdler of per­feel forn1 and one whose prowess is uni­versally recognized. The Gold and BIue. is sure of hurdling points in every Ineet 'vilh Desch bearing the brunt of ilw barrier events. 
\VILLIAil'I HAYES 
''Bill" Hayes was lined up with the fore1nost century arrows of the world at Antweq). In addition to the ke~n cmnpe­tilion, the husky (Jash king was greatly handicapped owing to a knee injury sus­tained shortly before his departure for Belgiun1. As a result, Hayes, 'vho was expected to breast the tape 'veil in ad­


Bill Hayes · .John :Murphy 
vance of Paddock, "'as forced to bow to the n1etcroric Californian. It can he con­servatively stated that Hayes, dash Inan extraordinary, 'viii shatter the records which he has already equalled on several occasions, befo1~e he puts his spiked shoes on the shelf. 
Tllirtu-One 

T H'E S E A S.Q 1\r ' S R E Y I E 1~' 0 F 1 9 2 0 
JOHN :MURPHY 

"Johnny" 1.\'Iurphy, National A. A. U. Junior high jtnnp chmnpion, was gen­erally conceded first.-place in the leap event at Antwerp particularly· after his easy victory over Landon of Yale in the preli1ninary trials held in Philadelphia.. "Rock's" pre1nier j u1np ace, set the chilly field fans gasping when he cleared the bar with aperfect leap good for six feet, four inches. ·l\'Iurphy ·was however, forced· to jtnnp under conditions foreign to his n1ethods across the pond, Landon copping the event, 1naking six feet, four and a half inches, which is, incidentally, a ne'v Olyn1pic record. That ~'lurphy is a better n1.an at the event than· Landon, goes 'vithout saying, and we look for­ward .,vith eager anticipation to the tiine 'vhen the two will agairi n1eet. 
COl\'IPLETE OLYMPIC RECORDS OF ALL EVENTS 
100 Meters: 1, Pa(ldock (A1n.); 2, Kirk­s.ey (An1.); 3, Eclwards (Eng.); 4, Scholz (An1.); 5, Ali Khan (France); 6, l\'Iurchi­son (A1n.). T. 10· 4/5. 
200 lVIeters: 1, \Voodring (A1n.); 2, 
Paddock (A1n.); 3, Edwarcls (Eng.); 4, · l\'Iurchison (An1.); . 5, Davidson (New Zealand); 6, Osterlaak (So. Africa). 
Tiine 22. 
400 1.\'Ieters: 1. Rudel (So. Africa); 2, Butler (Eng.); 3, Engdahl (S,veden); L1, Shea (A1n.); 5, Ainsworth (Eng.); 6, Dafel (So. Africa). Tiine 49 3/5. 
800 l\'leters: 1, Hill (Eng.); 2, Eby (An1.) ; 3, Rudel, (So. Africa~) ; 4, l\'Ioun­tain (Eng.); 5, Scott (An1.); 6, Sprott· (An1.). Ti1ne 1.53 2/5. 
1,500 :Meters: 1, Hill (Eng.); 2. Baker 
(Eng.); 3, Schields (An1.); 4, Vorahlik 
(Tch.-Sl.); 5, Landgreen (Sweden); 6, 
Audinet (France). Tiine 4.1 L1j5: 
. 5,000 1.\'Ieters: 1 Guille1not (France)· 2 Nur1ni (Finland); 3, Baclnnann (S{ve~ d~n); 4, Kosk.esvienl (Finland); 5, Ble­·witt (Eng.); 6, Seadrove (Eng.) Tiine 14:55 3/5. .· 
·1_D,OOO ·lVIelers: 1, N ur1ni (Finland) ; 2, Gtnllen1ot (France); 3, \Vilson (Eng.); 
Thirtu-1'wo 
L!, 1.\'Iatario (Italy); 5, Haskel (Eng.); 6, 
1.\'Ianhes (Fra·nce). Tiine 31.45 4/5. 
1.\'Iarathon, 26 1niles: 1, Koleh1nainen 
(Finland), 2 h. 32.35 4/5; 2, Loss1nan 
(Esthon.) 2 h. 32.42 3/5; 3, Arry Valerio 
(Italy) 2 h. 38.37 L!/5; ~1, Bross (Belgitun) 
2 h. 39.25 L!/5; 5, Ttnnikoski (Finland) 
2 h. L10.18 L!/5; 6, Sofus Rosn (De1unark) 
2 h. 48.18; 7, Jo. 01~gan (An1.) 2 h. 41.30; 
8, Hansen (Deninark)_ 2 h. 41.39 2/5; 9, 
Falgren (Finland) 2 h. L12AO; 10,_ ·Tatu 
Kolelunainen (Finland) 2 h. 44.3 1/5. 
110 Meter Hurdles: 1, Thon1s9n. (Can­
ada); ·2, Baron (An1.); ·3, 1.\'Iurray, (A1n.); 
Ll, \Vilson (New Zealand); 5, ·S1nith 
(An1.); 6, Christiansen (Sweden). Tiine 
14 4/5. . . 
400 l\'Ieter Hurdles: 1, Loo1nis (A1n.); 
2, Norton (An1.); 3, Desch . (An1.); 4, 
Andre (France); 5, Christiansen (Swe­
den); 6, Daggs (An1.) .· Tiri1e 54 . 
. 3,000 lVIeters Obstacle Race: 1, Hodge (Eng.); 2, Flynn (A1n.) ; 3, An1brosini (Italy); L!, lVIateson · (S,veden); 5, De­vai~ey (A1n.); 6, Hulsebosch (An1.). Tiine 10 -/5. 
, 3,000 lVIeters \Val.k: 1, Frigerio (Italy) ; 2, Parker (Australia); 3, Reiner (An1.); L~., ~'lacl\'Irt~~(ner. (So. Africa); 5, ~1aroney tAn1.) I nne 13.V1 1/5. 
10,000 lVIeters \Val k: 1, Frigerio (Italy); 2, Pearn1an (A1n.); 3, Grun (Eng.); 4, lVIaster (Canada)· 5, Hehir (England).· Tiine 48.10 1/5. ' 
Running High .Ttnnp: 1, Landon (A1n.) 
lin. 93 1/2; 2, lVIuller (An1.) lii1. 90; 3, 
Ekelund (Sweden) lin. 90; L!, \Vhelan 
(Ain.) lin. 89; 5, lVIurphy (An1.) lin. 87; · 6, Baker (Eng.) lin. 85. Running Broad .Ttnnp: 1, ·Pettersen (Sweden) 7In. 15;. 2, Johnson (Sweden) 7I~1. 09; 3, Abrahmnson (S,veden) 7In. 08; 4~ Te1npleton (An1.) 6111. 95; 5, Aastad (Norway) 61n: 86; 6, Frankson (Sweden) 6m. 73. 
Pole Vault: 1, Foss (An1.) Lhn. 09; 2, Peterson (Dentnark) 3In. 70; 3, lVlyers (An1.) 3n1. 65; L1, Knourk (Esth.) 3In. 60; 5, Rydberg (Sweden) 3In. 55; 6, .Torgen­sen·(Deninark) 3In. 50. . 
Rtn1~1ing Hop, Step and Jtunp: 1, Ten­los (Finland) 1Lbn. 55; 2, Ahnlof (S\ve-. den) 1Lhn. 27; 3, Jansson (Sweden) 14In. 48; L1, Sahlen1 (Sweden) 14nL 17; 5. Ahearn (An1.) 1Lhn. 08. · 
T H E .S E A S 0 N .,' S R E 1' I E 1~' 0 F. 1 9 2 0 
Putting 16 lb. Shot: 1, Porolla (Fin­land) 1Lln1. 81; 2, Niklander (Fiiiland) 14nL 15 1/2; 3, Liversedge (An1.) 1L!n1. 15; 4, l\'IcDonald (An1.) 14n1. 08; 5, Nill­son (Sweden) 13nr. 87; 6, Tanuner 
(Esth.) 13n1. 60. 
Throwing 56 lb. \Veight: 1, l\'IcDonald (An1.) 11In. 26 1/2; 2, Pat Ryan (An1.) 10n1. 96; 3, Lynd (Sweden) 10n1. 22; 4, Dimnond (Canada) lOn1. 12; 5, Swenson (Sweden) 9n1. 45; 6, Petterson (Sweden) 9111. 27. 
J aveliil: 1, l\'Iyrrha (Finland) 66n1. 78; 2, Belconnen (Finland) 63n1. 60; 3, J o­hannson (Finland) 63n1. 09; L!,. Saarito 

·(Finland) 62111. 395; 5, Khnnberg (Esth.) 
62n1. 39; 6, Lindstrm11 ,(Sweden) 601n. 
52. 
Throwing Hanuner: 1, Pat Ryan (An1.) 52111. 87 1/2; 2, Lind (Sweden) 501n. L13; 3, Bennett (An1.) 48In. 23; Ll, Seenson (Sweden:) 47n1. 29; 5, l\'Iacgrath (An1.) L16nl. 67; 6, Nicholson (Sweden) 45nl. 70. 
Throwing Discus: 1, Niklander (Fin­land) 44n1. 68 1/2; 2, Taipale (Finland) 4L1n1. 19; 3, Pope (An1.) L12n1. 13; 4, Zan­hagen (Sweden) Llltn. 07; 5, Bartlett (An1.) 40n1. 87; 6, Erickson (Sweden) 39n1. Lll. 
400 l\'Ieters Relay: 1, An1erica (Pad­dock, Scholz, l\'Inrchison, Kirksey) 42 1/5; 2, France (Ali Khan, Tirard, Lorrain, l\'Iourlon); 3, Sweden (Hohnstron, Linde, l\'Iahn, Sandstrmn); Ll, England .(Abra­hm11s, D'Arcy, Edwards, Hill); 5, Den­I~1ark; 6, Luxe1nbourg.. 
1,600 l\'Ieters Relay: 1, England; 2, So. Afrie~1; 3, France (Dclvart, Devaux, Andre, Fery); 4, An1erica; 5, Sweden; 6, Belgiun1. Tiinc 3.22 1/5. 
3,000 l\'Ieters Temn Race-Individual: 1, Brown (An1.) 8.51 1/5; 2, Raclnnan (Sweden) ; 3, Schardt ·(An1.); L!, Btu·tin (France); 5, Blewitt (Eng.); 6, Dresser (An1.); 7., Hill (Eng.); 8, Shields (An1.); 9, Seagrove (Eng.); 10, Hatton (Eng.); 11, A111brosini (Italy); 12, Devaney (An1.); 13, Lundgreen (Sweden) ; 1Ll, Heuet (France). 
3,000 l\'Ieters 'femn Race: 1, An1erica, 10 points; 2, England, 20 points; 3, Swe­den, 2L1 points; L!, France, 30 points; 5, Italy, 36 points; 6, Luxen1bourg. 
Individual Cross Country: 1, Nur111i (Finland); 2, Baclonann · (Sweden); 3,. Ltunatainen (Finland); 4, \Vilson (Eng­land); 5, Hegarty (England); 6, Kosken­ieini (Finland); 7, Van Cmnpenhout (Belgitnn); 8, Heuet (France). Tiine 27.15. 

Temn Cross Cotnitry: 1, Finland, 10. points; 2, England, 21 points; 3, Sweden, 23 poinls; L!, An1erica, 36 points; 5, France, L10 points; 6, Belgitnn; 7, Den­n1ark. 
Penlhathlon: 1, Lethonen (Finland) 18 points; 2, Bradley (An1erica) 25 points; 3, Hmnillon, Legendre, Larthinen, 2Q poii1ls; 4, Lovland, 27 points; 5, Ohlson, 30 points. 
Decathlon: 1, Lovland (Norway) 6.770 points; 2, Hmnilton (A1nerica) 6.763; Ohlson (Sweden) 6.579;· Hohner (Swe­den) 6.533; Nilsson . (Sweden) 6.434; \Vickhohn (Finland) 6A06; Vida I (An1erica) 6.359; Gyllenstolpe (S,vedeil) 6.332;· Gespach (Suisse) 5.9L18. · 
Tug of \Var: 1, England. 
100 :Meters: 1, Kohonmnoku (An1erica) 1.1 2/5; 2, Kaehola (An1erica) 1.2 3/5; 3, Harris (An1erica); 4, Herald (Austra-· lia). 
400 l\'Ieters: 1, ~ornu1n· Ross (A1i1eri­can) 5.26 4/5; 2, Langer (A1i1erica) 5.29; 3, Vernot (Canada) 5,29 3/5; 4, Kahele (An1erica). 
1,500 l\'Ieters: 1, Noriilan Ross· (Anler­ica) 22.23 1/5; 2, Vernot (Canada); 3; Heaurepaire (Australia); 4, Kahele (An1­erica); 5, Bolden (A1nerica) :. · 
100 l\'Ieters for \Vmnen: 1, l\'Iiss Bleib­lrey (An1erica) 1.13 3/5.; 2, l\'Iiss Guest (An1erica) 1.17; 3, l\'Iiss Schroth (An1er­ica) 1.17 1/5; 4, l\'Iiss Jeans (Eng.); 5, lVIiss \Valrond (New Zealand); 6, Gyl-· ling (Sweden); 7, Boyle (An1erica). 
300 l\'Ietcrs: l\'Iiss Bleibtrey (Ai1Ierica) J.34; i\'liss \Voodbridge (An1erica) L1A4; 3, l\'Iiss Schroth (An1erica) 4.32; 4, l\'Iiss Jmnes (England).. · 
200 l\'Ieters, Breast: .1, l\Iahnroth (Swe­den) 3A 2/5; 2, Henning (Sweden) 3.9 2/5; 3, Alloonen (Fi11land) 3.12 1/5; .:1, Howell (An1erica). 
400 i\'leters, Breast: 1, l\'Inhnroth (Swe­wen) 6.34; 2, Henning (Sweden) 6.40 1/5; 3, Alloonen (Finland) 6.48 2/5; Ll, Ho"\vell (An1ericn); 5, Cedelblon1 (Sweden). 
Fancy Diying: 1, Kuehn (A1nerica) 10 points; 2, Pinkston (A1nerica) 11 points; 3, Balbach .(1\In.erica) 11 points;. 4, Blmn­gren (Sweden) 19 points; 5, Ekstrand 
Tlzirty-Tlzrcc 

:.~ . 
T H E S E A S· 0 f\T , S 
(Sweden) 27 points; 6, Janssen (Swe­den) 34 points. · . High Diving: 1, Vahnan. (Sweden) 7 }Joints; 2, Ekoglond (S\veden) 8 points. 
. \Vater Polo: England defeated Bel­gnun, 3-2; Belgiun1 defeated Holland for second place. 
Rowing-Singles: 1, Kelly (Anierica) 7.35; 2, Beresford (England) 7.36. Doubles: 1, Atnerica (Kelly, Costello) 
7.9; 2, Italy, 8.19; 3, France;· · Pair oared -boats with coxwain: 1, Italy, 7.56; 2, France, -7:57; 3, Sweden, 6.54. 
Four oared boats with coxwain: 1, ~;weden, 6.5L1; 2; Atnerica, 6.58; 3, Nor­
-,.., ?

:way, /..... _ Eight oared boats 'vith coxwain:· 1, Atnerica, 6.2; 2, England, 6.5 3/5. 
GY~[N'ASTICS 
Individual Class: 1, Zanposi (Italy) 88 points; 2, Torres (France) 87.62; 3, Gon­not (France) 87 ·pts. 45; 4, Kmnpeners 

R E 11~ I E 11' 0 F 1 !J :i 0 
(Belgitun) 86 pts. 25; 5, Thurner (France) 86 points; 6, Greech (France) 85 pts.-65; 7, lVIaiocco (Italy) 85 pts. 38; 8, Cartilioso (Italy) 84 pts.; 9, \Vagetnan (Belgitun) 83 pts. 58; 10, Kriz (Atnerica) 83 pts. 10. 
. BoxiNG 

Flyweight: DeGenerao (An1.) defeated Petersen (Dentnark) by points. Banlmnweight: \Valter (S. A.) de­feated Grahmn (Canada) by points. · Featherweight:. Fritsch (France) de­feated Gachet (France) by points. Lightweight: lVIosberg (An1.) defeated Johansen (Dentnark) by points. _ · \Velterweight: Schneider (Canada) defeated Ireland (England) by points. lVIiddleweight: '\\Tallin (An1.) defeated Prudhonune (Canada) by points.· Heavy-light 'veight: Eagan (An1.) de­
feated Noi·stal (Non\'ay) by points. . Heavyweight: Rawson (Eng.) defeated Petersen (Denn1ark) by knockout. 
Tllirty-Four 
\ 
\ 
\ 

j 


1-~ 
THE SEASQl\T'S REVIE1~' OF 1920 

Our Captains, 1920--1921 
~ 


-Et'
/-, ..,j._' •• --\
I ., 

.TOI·IN l\IOHARDT CYIUL KASPEH. Baseball Track 
'· 
.... 
HAHRY-1\IEHHE Basketball 

To he a captain of any sport at .Notre Dnmc means that you arc the best man in that branch of athletics enrolled in school. Here arc four fine examples. In all sports Notre Dame holds a place up at the top, and to he captain in any branch is indeed an honor. 
Tllirtu-Fir'e 



THE SEA S 0 1\T' S R E l' 1· E H' 0 F· 1 9 2 0 



Three Stars· frotn One High School 

GIPP, ANDERSON, LARSON 
It is. quite an honor for any high school to lnve one of their graduates picked as a regular on the· Notre Dame Varsity. Laurium C\lichigan) has three men starring at the same time on the Varsity of '.20, in the persons of Gipp, Anderson and Larson. This is a remarkable record, indeed.. 
Tllirtu-Six 
THE SEAS 0 l\T' S 


Our Ar1ny eleven, Inighly throughout 'the season and for three-quarters of its gmnes against Notre Dmne, ~·an into a r-Lll-de-sac or a chevaux-de-fru;e or per­haps an abbcilloir, during the last period, and Notre Dmne today is hailed as second to none.-(By . George Currie, Brooklyn Eagle, Noven1ber 1.) 
Just once tl1is year I have seen U1e quick l~ick utilized in a n1ajor gmne. Notre -Dmne flashed it against the Ar1ny on last Sah.trday. and ·gaii.1ed n1ore ground with it than with any other kick it n1ade. The soldiers, sucked in close by a line­attack, were taken cmnpletely by sur­prise, and the ball rolled deep into \Vest Point territory. \Vilh a clever punter to do the bnoting, there is no reason why this Inanoeuver sl1ould not con1e into greater use. It is sound, if used wisely, and has a den1oralizing efl'ect.­(New York Evening Siln, Nove1nber 13, 1920.) 
The Boiler1nakers put up a great battle against the Irish, but "the greatest temn in the country" was siinply too good, and the Boilennakers bowed in· defeat before the n1igh ty Catholic aggregaLion. The gmne \Vas exceptionally clean and good sportsn1anship n1arked the co n t e s t throughout. the entire afternoon. ·It is surely no disgrace to be be·aten by such a wonch~rful· aggregation.-(The Purdue Ex~Jonent.) ' 
Fighting to the last, the plucky Ar1ny eleven outplayed but gmne, went· down Lo defeat here today before the fast, pow­erful eleven frmn the University of Notre 
R E.F IE H' o·p 19 2 0 
Dmne, of South Bend, Indiana. The 
final score was Notre Dmne, 27; Anny, 
17. Although· the \Vesterners trailed for three-quarters of the gmne, their power­ful. reserve told in the end· and in the final period they put the quietus on the Army Illen. rhe gmne was \Vi tnessed by a crowd esliinated .at 10,000. The field 
. was in good shape in spite of the recent rains. 
Notre Dmne resorted to forward-pass­ing frequently, Gipp and Kiley figuring in several long · gains through this n1editun. But the \Vesterners outrushed the Cadets in every quarter. lVIohardt and Gipp bored ·through the Anny line ahnost at will. Gipp proved a powerful runner, the like ·or whmn has not been seen. here since the days of Jiin T_horpe, the old Carlisle player. He -\vas pronli­nenl' in every advance of the visitors.­(Frmn the Brooklyn Eagle; October 31.) 
It was a football exhibition well wo'rth going Inany Iniles· to see. . It \Vas a hard contest, ·fought ~\iilh vigor and viin by both sides all the way, but it was also the greatest gmne, hath for attack and de-: fense, \Vhicli. has been: seen in the East this season. The Anny was beaten, but even in defeat it covered itself \vith glory. In the developn1ent .of defense, in all-around effectiveness in both the old and the new football, in sheer bril­liancy, the eleven frmn Indiana, with the scintillating Gipp always in. the van, practically outclassed the Ar1ny. Notre Dmne nuHle twenty first-downs, as against only four of the Ar1ny. · \Ve do not think that any Lemn in th~s country could have won over the temn-fron1 the 
-\Vest as it played here toduy.-(Daniel, in the New Yo'rk I-Ierald.) 
· It was hmne-cmning day at Notre Dmne and the old grads cmne all th~ way frmn l\Hssouri. lVIon ran a, and Pitts­burg for the big day,· the biggest that South Bend has ever seen. The bunch · · iiicluded Louis Sahnon, .John lVIiller, AI Feeney, "Red" lVIiller, Ray Eichenlaub, ·. and Inany other old football stars. Notre Dmne certainly knows ho\v to treat vis­itors. Friday night the student body threw a parade for Purdue, flocked into the Oliver hotel and cheered every nu1n on the Purdue temn individually. Then they called for speeches. Cooley, the big 
Til irly-SezJtm 


T fiE S E· A S 0 1\T ' S 
Purdue gtulrd, who, by the way, played one peach of a gmnc, won the oratorical honors with the following nu1sterpiece, which n1ct with 100 per cent approval frmn both temns: "Fellows," he said, "I don't know which of us \Vill win tmnor­row, but this I do know: both of us arc going to beat the life out of hidiana." Prolonged applause. 
Notrc Dmnc's cheering \Vas splendid. AI Slaggert; ·cheer-leader, was refresh­ingly short on acrobatics, but long in getting the noise of the stands unified. Every Purdue player who left the giune or was injurGd received a cheer. The singing was as good as any heard in· the stale this ycar.-("lVIixed Up Pickups," Indianapolis News, No,'einber 9.) 

COACH ROCKNE 

Notre Dmnc which swmnped the Arn1y toda)r at "\Vest Point could fairly sn1othci· either the Buckeyes or the Ma­roons.-(The Lincoln Slar.). · 
Notre Dmne, if il wins its rc1naining gmnes-and there is every reason to be­lieve it will-should be rated one of the strongest temns in the country. The .. decisive victory that Coach H.ockne's lemn won over "\Vest Point, 27 to 17, stmnps the aggrcgalion as one· of the greatest offensive and defensive powers, and half-back Gipp, of Notre Dmne, as one of the best back-field players in the country.-(Thc Chicago Tribune.) 
Knittc K. Rockne's Notre Dmne eleven, undoubtedly one of the greatest if not 
1 Tlrirll!-Eiallt
li 
·I
l'l
~,
u 
~· 
R E F 1· E 1~' 0 F 1 9 2 0 
the greatest football tcmn in the country, buried the fighting Boilcnnakers Satur­day afternoon on Cartier field, before a Hmnecmning crowd of 12,000 people, 28 ·to 0. George Gipp, although he played but two ·quarters of the gmne, stood head and shoulders above any backfield nu1n · on the gridiron. As one of the spectators 
·was heard to say, "it \Vas \Vorth the price of a{hnission to sec Gipp Inake that eighty-yard run."-(By RobertlVIclVIahon, in the Indianapolis Slar, Novcn1ber 8.) 
There are a nu1nber of great players on this year's Notre Dmne eleven. Cap­lain Coughlin, the tackle, is one of the best perforn1crs -in the country, regard­less of the Inany plays sent at the tackles, son1e of which call for the tackle to be boxed, and others to knife hhn out. Coughlin generally 1nanages to upset n1osl plays sent to hhn. Besides Captain Coughlin in the line, Stnith is probably the best guard in the "\Vest. He \Vas a lower of strength a year ago ~1nd is play-:­ing better this season.-("\Vallcr Ecker­snll, in the Chicago Tribune, N oven1ber 28.) 


··.__ 
CAPT. COUGHLIN· 

./ 
They arc saying this year that Notre ·Dmnc has two temns-Georgc Gipp and ten other n1cn. The lithe-liinbcd Hoosier halfba_ck is the Goliath ofa big, shifty, 


T H E S E A S 0 N ' S R. E l' I E H' 0 F . 1 9 2 0 
well-drilled and powerful eleven. If 
there is anything that Gipp can't do on the·football field it isn't discernible to the naked eye. . . . . It is his last year al Notre Dmne and it n1ight be added that· the door lo the .All-An1ericai1 Inythical eleven of 1920 is standing wide open Lo 'the great Hoosier back.-(Dean Sn)rder,
r ! in the Toledo Tinws.) · 
\Vith the final swing into the hmne­slrelch of the football season, those who have been \Valching the pcrfortnances of the various football Lcmns through the schedules they have been . Lucking away 
back in their 1nen1ories the doings of cer­
~ •'
,. 
tain players who will be trotted out lat~r on as n1e1nbers of Lhc n1ythic~1l eleven which is supposed Lo represent the ideal of the gridiron. One chap stood out in the East yesterday who looks like a cer­tainty. That is George Gipp, whon1 we watched on the Plains at \Vest Point run­ning riot for Notre Dmnc against the Artny. There were fe"r of those who saw hiin as the Cadets were routed who did not agree that he is one of the nH)st spectacular and startling players of the year. . . . That Notre Dmne eleven looked about as good as anything that has been seen in the East this. year and il seen1s a pity that it is not schedulc(l'to n1cet Penn Stale or Harvard. . . . The Lcmn has everything necess.ary in its repertoire up to the.Iniiu~te and Saturday it lived up Lo the forn1 it displayed when it cmne here first a few. years ago and opened the· eyes of the Easterners by a dazzling display .of \vhizz-bang aerial tactics. . . . The nmne of Gipp nu1y not have ~1 rmnanlic sound lo it, but its echo ought lo be heard for n1any a day where deeds of the gridiron . arc re­
counted.-(Van Ness, in the New York Evening Telegr(l/11, Novetnber 7.). 
But Lhc. Artny was up against n1ore 
than it could handle-possibly tnore than · ·Harvard, Yale, Princeton, or Pill could have handled-another Penn Stale plus George Gipp. · . . . George Gipp, of Notre· Dmne, a long-legged, .spraddle­legged Kangaroo halfback, steps into the picture as the leading 1920 star. Gipp is the best back we have seen in a long tin1e-another Eddie ·Mahan and every whit as good.-(Granlland Rice, in the 
Ne"~ York Tribune.) 
In the nu1.tlcr of cmning frmn behind Lo win out in football, one of the hardest assigtnnenls in Lhc world of sports, the Notre Dmne eleven seen1s to be in a class by itself. In three of its seven contests with the Artny, it has turned the trick. In 1917 the \Vestcrners won. out late in the gmne. Last year with the score 9 to 0 against then1, the \Vestcrners cmne back in the second half ·\vith a spirited rally and a brilliant aerial attack and won out, 12 to 9. Last Saturday the Ca.dets were leading up Lo the last period, when the Indiana temn uncorked a hard-hil­ling attack Lo win by 10 poinls.-(Grant­lnnd Rice, in the Ne\y York Tribune.) 
Only a gmnc between Ohio Stale and Notre Dmne would convince the Hoosier following that Gipp and his band arc the best in the \Vest.. \Vith no way of set­tling the dispute about the relative ability of Lhe tcmns, it is a Inattcr of opinion and the East favors Notre Dmnc. -(Henry Farrell, in the Sotilh Bend 
Nezvs-Tinws.) 


Tllirtu-Niuc 

T H E S .E A S 0 N ' S R E 1' I E 11' 0 F 1 9 2 0 
Statistics 
List of Men Receiving Monograms Since Rockne Has Been Head Coach. 
Edward Anderson Heartley Anderson Leonard Bahan Norn1an Barry 
Edward Andei·son · Heartley Anderson Arthur Bergrnan Norrnan Barry Leonard Bahan­Joseph Brandy Frank Coughlin 
Edward Anderson Heartley Anderson .Toseph Brandy Norn1an Barry Glen Carberry Frank Coughlin Daniel Coughlin 

HH8-'19 
Glen Crowley ·George Gipp Bernard Kirk 
Frederick Larson 
John Lmnheau 
1919-'20 
Cy DeGree Jmnes Dqoley George Gipp David Hayes Bernard I{irk Roger Kiley Edward lV[adigan 
1920-'21 
Paul Castner Jmnes Dooley Edward De Gree Arthur Garvey George Gipp Donald Grnnl David Hayes Roger Kiley 
Frank Lockard 
· \Villimn lVIohn Raleigh Stein l\'Iaurice S1nilh 
Grover ·Malone \Valter Miller Lawrence Shaw Frederick Slackford lVIaurice S1nilh George Trafton 
Frederick Larson Harry Mehre John Mohardt Robe.rl Phclari Lawrence Shaw . Mauricc Sn1iLh \Villimn Voss 

SCORES OF GAlVIES PLAYED SINCE ROCKNE HAS BEEN HEAD COACH 
Incon1plele on account of "flu" ban. 
N.D. 1918-'19 
26 Case 6 tO \Vabash 7 7 Great Lakes 7 2() Purdue 6 () Nebraska 0 7 Michigan Aggies 13 
N.D. 1919-'20 N.D. 1920-'21 
1L1 Kalmnazoo 0 39 Kalmnazoo 0 . 60 :Mount Union 7 41 \Vestei·n Stale 0 14 ·Nebraska 9 1() Nebraska 7 53 \Vestern Slate 0 28 Valparaiso 3 16 Indiana 3 27 Ar1ny 17 12 \Vest Point n 28 Purdue 0 13 lVlichigan Aggies 0 13 Indiana. 10 33 Purdue· 13 33 Northwestern 7 14 lVIorningside 6 25 l\1ichigan Aggies 0 
Fortu 

t .... 




ame 
DISCEQUASI-SEALER-VICTURVsVlVE-QUASI- CRASMORITVRVS 
VOL. LIV. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER II, 1920. No. II. 
Notre Dame Football, 1920. 
BY ALFRED N. SLAGGERT, 21. 

AUDE D from coast to coast by recog­nized critics as the greatest of the great lt.,~HS«^ in footballdom, Rockne's super-eleven 
of 1920 has just emerged from another season with nothing but victories to its credit. Even the most conservative are forced to con­cede to this wonder eleven and-its peerless mentor first place when ranking the country's best gridiron machines of this year. 
A bewildering aerial, attack, herculean line-plunging, faultless team play, brilliancy in. both offensive and defensive play—these were some of the many merits shown consistently in the games against Nebraska, the Army, Indiana, and the other conquered elevens, each of which had saved its best energy and strategy for the clash with Nofre Dame, for the reason that a victory over, the Gold and Blue would have meant well-deserved acclaim wherever the pigskin pastime is discussed. To Rockne and Halas and their valiant knights of the grid­iron—^whose classic work has given to Notre Dame a superior position in the world of athletics—^is due the appreciation of every loyal friend of the' University. 
Kalamazoo College, the first opponent of the season, was •easity overwhelmed by the Varsity, 39 to .0. The Wolverine men, confident in con­sequence of their recent victory over the Michigan "Aggies," came advertised as able to give the Gold and Blue a real test in its initial -battle. It was evident from the very beginning of the contest, however, that they-were not equal to the task. They fought tenaciously up . to the very last minute of play, but it was a fight against impossible odds. To mention the Varsity men whose play came well up to the expectation of the "fans", would be to give the whole personnel of the team. The feats of that afternoon augured well for victory in the bi§ 
battles to come. Wynne toted the oval across the enemy's, zero line for the first touchdown of the season, following several titanic advances by the battering backs of the first string.. Early in the second quarter these same backs again 
. began to evidence greed for yardage, and Gipp,t hurtling through the Wolverine tacklers, struck a spectacular gallop for thirty yards to another touchdown. Mohardt and Coughlin, who were substituted for Gipp and Barry, plunged time ' after time through the Kalamazoo wall and had advanced the ball to the opposition's four-yard line when the half ended.. In the second half there came a shower of touchdowns-r-by Barry, Brandy, Kasper, and Mohardt.. In.the last quarter Kalamazoo. failed miserably in its attempt to save itself via the air route from-a zero defeat. '. , , . 
The next visitor to Cartier field, the.Western Normal eleven, also succumbed to the crushing 
' offensive; and impregnable defensive play of the Varsity; Except for occasional flashes of fairly good defensive work, the Normals weare pitifully helpless, w^hether in their effort to curb .the advances of Rockne's plunging aces or in their failure to make an impression on the Varsit}'­forward wall. The final score, 41. to o, would undoubtedly have been doubled had it not been for heavy penalties imposed upon N-otre Dame and the extreme humidity of the after­noon. _. 
• Rockne's men underwent their first real test of the season when they met the beefy team, of Nebraska at Lincoln. Coming from behind in the latter part of the game, they drove their way through, to a. i6-to-7 victory over the Comhuskers, before the largest crowd that has ever attended a game in that city. As a result of the game, Notre Dame's great coach was acclaimed by the attending gridiron critics "the wizard of footballdom." The two teams fought evenly through the first half, the Varsity using pass kfter pass in the hope of getting within striking distance of the R,ed and White 
./ 

I62 '^e Noure 5ame §'cholascicr 
posts. The Notre Dame aerial tactics having spectacular affair, sprinkled with sensational 
been temporarily frustrated, Gipp, Castner, novelties in strateg}^ The "Valps," in proud 
and Barr}'- began a series of off-tackle crashes possession of a three-point lead at the end of the 
and flank dashes which took the ball 'to the "first period, Avere worn to shreds in their bitter 
Cornhuskers two-feet line. Here the Westerners attenipts to withstand the continual pounding 
fought like madmen and held. Shaw spilled of the local shock squad. Early in the second 
the attempted punt, ^vhich was recovered by a period, Rockne withdrew his Reserves, and soon 
Nebraskan behind his goal line, thus giving the Valparaiso defensive was crumbling before 
the Varsit}'^ two points on a safety. the onslaughts of the Aces. Plunge after plunge 
In the second period Nebraska began a won- netted long gains. Wynne went over the top, 
derful drive toward the Notre Dame bar and followed by Gipp a few minutes later. Gipp 
with the ball on the three-«* found the enemy trench 
yard line, Hubka substi­again in the fourth quarter, 
NOTRE DAME RECORD, 1920 
tuted for Hartley at left-and "Johnny" Mohardt 
half, charged through for KNUTE K. ROCKNE. Coach wriggled over for the WALTER HALAS, Asst. Coach fourth touchdown of-the 
a touchdown. The Neb­

FRANK COUGHLIN, Captain 
raska stands w^ent wild game, following Hayes' wdth joy over the spectacu­-N.D. Opp. scoop of Kercheval's wild lar advance of their heroes. delivery. 
Kalamazoo College 0 The Varsit}!-, nothing 1 Eastern critics are still 
at Notre Dame 39 
daunted by the success sounding the well-deserved 
Western State Normal 0
of the Huskers, began a praises of the "Hoosier" 
' 

at Notre Dame 41 
counter-charge, wdth Mo­eleven which invaded the hardt and Wynne, who Nebraska 7 East late in October, and, had just entered the game, at Lincoln 16 for the third consecutive bearing the brunt of the time, defeated the Cadets 
Valparaiso 3 attack. Twice the Corn­of West Point, this time 
at Notre Dame 28 
huskers held for downs, by taking the Army eleven Army 17 
and again the Varsity re­into camp, 27 to 17. "It sorted to the hurling game. at West Point 27 was the struggle of a The Gipp-to-Anderson Purdue 0 good team against a great combination netted sixty one," writes a prominent 
at Notre Dame 28 yards with two perfect New York critic. '' Beaten, 
Indiana 10 
throws, putting the ball though the Army was by 
at Indianapolis 13 
well into Nebraska terri­a score of 27 to 17, the tory. Then the ball was Northwestern 7 glory of a -gallant fight tossed successfully to the at Evanston 33 against a too powerful enemy's two-yard line, Michigan Aggies 0 foe remains with West 
ft 

and Brandy on the second Point. Against a machine 
at Lansing 25 
play cut his way through capable of pounding its 
Total Score 250 44 
the Red and White line. way for successive marches In the third quarter Gipp's X of seventy-five and eighty dash for a touchdown, in the execution of yards the Cadets went down—as almost any other Rockne's yearly "stunt" prepared especially eleven in the East must have if it had faced the for Nebraska, was disallowed because of holding. Notre Dame eleven that took the field today." The last touchdown of- the game followed a Concerning the classic struggle the New York series of scrappy counter-skirmishes, Gipp Times said: "The Notre Dame team wliich going through tackle for the score. The game played rings around the Army this afternoon ended with Nebraska resorting in desperation was a big, shifty, well-drilled football machine, to an overhead attack. which looked as strong as. any football team 
A week later eight thousand spectators seen on an eastern gridiron this season. ... . crammed into Cartier field and saw the "Rock- The Hoosiers were a better developed and a men humble the grim, fighting team of Val­better trained eleven and played the kind of paraiso,*?? to 3. The contest was a bitter, football which sends a crowd pf spectators into 
realms of excitement every minute." Notre Dame supporters at the game were legion, and they saw a Gold and Blue eleven fighting in its best manner; the}'- saw Gipp, hailed as the peer of football champions past and present, run, punt, plunge, and pass with scintillating ac­curacy; they saw Mohardt cleave the Cadet wall in every-attempt; they saw .'Wynne smash through the tackles in heroic drives; they saw Captain Coughlin, Kiley, Anderson, Shaw, and Smith, each put up a game which astonished the East; they saw in action a team which showed itself "about thirty points better than the Army-and at least one touchdown better than any eleven in the East." 
The fracas with the Boilermakers of Purdue was the piece de resistance of the Notre 
dashed, and dodged through a maze of black and Brown tacklers, eighty yards to a touch­down; he hurled to Kiley and Anderson for gains totaling one hundred-thirty yards, and sent the oval squarely between the Purdue sticks three times for goal points. Grant's fifty-yard canter, the most sparkling bit of work in the game, gave the Varsity its first score. Captain Coughlin, "Hunk" Anderson,' Shaw, and Smith opened great holes for Wynne, Barry, Mohardt, Coughlin, and Castner, who either walked peacefully through the Boiler­makers' defense or trotted around the ends, advancing for good gains on every play. 
Next came the gruelling battle with Indiana, which taxed all the resources of the Champions. For three periods the Stiehm squad with sen-
THE SQU.A.D OF 1920. 
From lop and left: Voss, Kelly, Walsh, DeGiee, Phelan, Cotton, Mixon. Oberst, Kennedy, Castner, Mehre, Garvey, Halas, Rockne Gipp. E. Anderson, Dooley, Kiley, Barry, Brandy, Smith, Coughlin, H. Anderson, Larson, Hayes, Shaw, Grant, Wynne D. Coughlin, Thomas, Wilcox, Carberry, Logan, Seyfrit, Kane, Prokup, Mohardt. 
Dame home-coming day. Long before the opening whistle it was necessary to hang up the 
S. R..0. sign, so great was the holiday crowd that-surged into Cartier Field. Old "grads"— six hundred strong—^were there to see the hero gridders of 192o treat Purdue 28 to o. " Red'' Sal­mon, all-timeNotreDamefullback,FrankHering, "Red" Miller, Tom Shaughnessy, and other magnates of the past graced the President's box and shared with the team the noisy acclaim of the student'' rooters.'' Ease and ever-increas­ing power characterized the Varsity play. The Boilermakers approached the Notre Dame goal once-^in the first period when they faced the Reserves, who fought them evenly for more than a third of the game. The versatile Gipp was' at his best in this contest. He twisted, 
sational football held the Varsity scoreless. Coach Stiehm—who has been an assiduous observer of the Notre Dame system, particularly during this last season—^was more than ready to meet the Notre Dame attack with clever strategy. Gipp, the object of practically every defensive play, did superhuman work despite a fractured shoulder. The Indiana stands were rampant with joy when the last quarter opened with their team ten points in the lead, but the "Rockmen" had already worked themselves up to the occasion late in the third quarter and now one of the grittiest rallies ever staged by a Gold and Blue eleven was on. Barry had taken Mohardt's position and "Johnny" had relieved the battered Gipp. At the end of the thir period Barry, the hero of the day, and Mohard 
'&5e Houre dame ^hda^cie 
had succeeded in cutting the Crimson defense and working the oval to the enem3'^'s one-^'-ard line. The fight of the Indiana line had worn out. Gipp returned to his position and on the first snap of the ball carried it across, and then added a point with his toe. Another N. D. drive followed the kick-off, . which W^mne hustled back in a thirt3'--two 3'^ard' squirm. The Notre Dame offensive battered and beat back the opposition till the ball was on the Crimson two-jj-ard line, whence "General" Brandy carried it to a touchdown. Anderson, Smith, Coughlin, Shaw, and Larsen' fought desperate^ on the line against heavy opposition. Kile}'' and Anderson worked smoothly on the flanks, and Barry, Mohardt, Wynne, Castner, and Brandy performed in meteoric manner in this severest battle of the campaign. 

It took McDevitt's big Northwestern squad onl}'-a few minutes to realize that the pigskin argument with the Gold and Blue "would not be a tournament of roses." Practically the. whole student-body of Notre. D^ame attended" the game and, together with the hundreds of Gold and Blue. enthusiasts from South Bend and Chicago, accorded the N. D. men roj'^aL support. The "l^arsit}'- scoring spiree' began in the second quarter and the whistle at the.end of the haff found NyiD.. with fourteen ^points.: Grausnick, the'-Purple hero'of:the day, got away, to a pretty, dash intheHhird period; netting the . Bvanstonians a touchdown and a goal. The "Rock" demons opened up again, and in a twinkling Anderson was across the Purple line with the ball. Gipp, handicapped with his bad shoulder, entered the game in the last quarter and was given a rousing ovation. Each of two passes by this wonder man, one to Kiley and one to Barry, resulted in a touchdown. The tussle ended with Notre Dame again charging close,to the Purple posts. 
Finally, the Varsity Reserves were victors over the Michigan "Aggies" in the Turkey Day joust, 25 to o. "Danny" Coughlin crashed through an army of Green and White grapplers eighty yards to a touchdown from the first kick­off. In the third quarter Castner made the "Aggies'" goal line for two touchdowns, and in the final period "Eddie" Anderson galloped across, following his recovery of a blocked punt. 
Notre Dame, by virtue of her remarkable record of eighteen victories, with no defeat and no tie in the last two seasons, has won a promi­nent place in the athletic sun. With her in­domitable fighting spirit she has shown herself uniformly capable of rallying with superhuman vigor in the face of impending defeat, as' in the Indiana battle. The team of this year had all the qualities which have characterized the great Gold and Blue squads of the past. It has not been by good luck at all but in virtue of sheer superiority that the great machine of 1920 has credited itself as being "the best teain in the business this year." 
The Mighty. Men of 1920. 
CAPTAIN FRANK E . COUGHLIN. Notre Dame feels that she, has no words with 
which to properly speed in farewell the one who has proved himself so truly "a Notre Dame man," Captain Frank Coughlin. Certainly there are no words of eulogy relative to leadership which he has hot deserved: As leader of Notre Dame's undefeated eleven of 1920—he has raised the standard of cap­taincy, which has always been held high in 'Notre Dame athletics, and he has surely, approached " very closer to..the ideal. .. The coaches, the faculty, the aiumni, and the students of Notre Dame will all 
testify in unmodified terms to the respect and confidence accorded him. The captain's tact, good sense, and spirit have been in large measure responsible for the tiptop morale of the squad through thick and thin. He has been a unanimous choice for All-State and AU-Western honors by critics both friendly and unfriendly. His work in the one appearance of his men on an Eastern field was such as to startle the football oracles of the East into raptures of praise for himself, 
-Rockne, his team, and for Notre Dame teams in general, and the chorus of praises has not yet subsided. The undefeated champions of 1919 siu-ely picked "a big man for.a big job" when they fell upon "Little Willie" Coughlin to captain jthe squad of 1920. 
GEORGE GIPP Four years ago last September a modest, almost timid freshman from Laurium, Michigan, 

reported to Coach Fitzgerald on Cartier field 
as a candidate for the first-year football team. Some two months later, after football scribes had diligently but vainly searched the football guides, records, and encyclope­dias, the name of this youth was being flashed over every telegraph wire in the States. This unknown freshman had in a game between the Freshman team and Kalamazoo College come within three yards of the world's record for the drop­kick. He was no other than our own George Gipp. Today he is the same unassuming person, although he is now about as well known as Jack Dempsey or "Man-'o-War." In reading 
of this peerless half-back this year the schoolboy of the backwoods on the frontier was wont to ask, "Who is this guy, Frank Merriwell?" The season just finished has shown this greatest of players at his best. In one game after another he "showed them how." The ground he gained ' against Uncle Samuel's men at West Point exceeded the number of yards made by the whole Navy team in their victory over the Cadets. Why was Gipp better than any other half-back in America? The answer is easy to any one who saw him play last season. In executing the forward-pass he was as accurate as De Oro. He has. the kicking ability of a Brickley, an Oliphant, and a Cofall, and unless Notre Dame was behind her own thirty-yard line the opponents' goal was always in danger. To stop Gipp on the run was about as easy as damming Niagara, and an opposing runner needed an aeroplane to get by him. Finally he has the head of a Dorais, in which every play was precisely staged before its execution. The selection of Gipp by the numerous football critics as the greatest of the half-backs of this year has been all but unanimous. Not a few of them are of the opinion that the gridiron has never known a player superior to him and a few urge that it has never witnessed his equal. 
CHESTER ALLEN WYNNE. If there be a fullback in the West who is better than "Chet" Wynne, it will be a hard task to prove the fact to any student of Notre Dame. Young, modest, unassuming, aggres­
sive, determined, the Kansas Cyclone has obtained an enviable place in the hearts of all Notre Dame men.' On offense "Chet" has no equal and he is a power on defense. He was a star at running interference for'the fastest backs in intercollegiate football. His real forte, how­ever, is line-plunging. In the Nebraska game he took the heart out of the huge "Cornhusker" linesmen by his terrific plunges, which netted him large gains every time he struck the line. It was in the Army game that this ijs-poimd fullback, the hghtest man playing the position this fall, proved to the Eastern critics that Notre Dame had a running attack as well as a strong aerial attack. Wynne crashed the Army forwards consistently for gains. His fleetness and his wonderful leg-drive made it almost impossible to stop him either in the open field or on the line of scrimmage. The Eastern critics after witnessing the Army game pronounced Wynne "the hardest hitting full­back of the year." "Chet" has, we are most happy to say, another year of intercollegiate football. . 
NORMAN CHRISTOPHER BARRY. 

In the passing of Norman Barry from current college athletics we lose from Notre Dame a unique gridiron figure. He began his develop­ment as an athlete more than a decade ago on the Minim team of St. Edwards Hall; in his growing years he played in Carroll and Brown-son Halls, then on the Freshman team, and finally on the representative eleven of his school. His remarkable success on the football field has been attributed to his love of action and clean fight. It has been easily observed also that the big days and minutes of • his career were made just when the game seemed lost and the fight hopeless. We remember well how he started the rally against the Army in 1919 when the score stood ominously against Rockne's men, and how later in the same year he brought the team to life in the contest against the Michigan "Aggies," who were playing the superior eleven of Notre Dame to a standstill. Finally, it was "Norm" who, with the aid of Mohardt, late in the game turned what seemed to be certain 


/^ e Noufe 6ame §choIagcic 
defeat into \dctor3'- in the terrific contest with the. Crimson of Indiana on November the i3tli last at Indianapolis. At Kvanston Barry pla3''ed against Northwestern the game of his career— before hundreds of his "home-town" friends, gathered from all parts of Chicago to see him in action. WHiatever the amount or quality of the 
. opposition, it was rare indeed that Barr}'^ did not go forvv'-ard when called upon. This typical "fighting Rockman" leaves the gridiron with the best wishes of every Notre Dame man for success in whatever- he may undertake. 
EDWARD GEORGE DEGREE Following in the footsteps of his noted brother "Cy", Edward DeGree stepped out upon the gridiron and" won his monogram in the first year of his eligibilit)'-. He was a veritable. pillar of concrete from shoulders down and alive with a football instinct which carried him into the very heart of every play. With his combination of brains and brawn, he was a source of worr}'- to every ambitious fullback who attempted to pierce the Notre Dame line. As a punter Eddie has few superiors. Time after time in the Northwestern game he relieved the dangerous situation • b}?" his long twisting spirals. He is scheduled for a climax next fall. 
DAVID VINCENT HAYES 
The dought}?- Dave Ha5'^es has been a success­ful candidate for end position on three great Notre Dame teams. The small boy from Con­necticut has uniformly given to Notre Dame the best that was in him. In 1917, his first 
year out, he made his coveted position and performed bril­liantly. Early in 1918 his fight was transferred to the Argonne front in France, where he func­tioned heroically under the dir­ection of Uncle Sam. Severe wounds, received in a single-hand combat with a • .dozen Huns, prevented him from being 
•in the final touchdown '' over there." He promptty returned to his school as soon as he was sufficiently recovered from his wounds and gamely fought for his old position at end on the team of 1919. Hard 
work and sheer grit won for him, despite unusual competition and the handicap his injuries im­posed. This year Dave put up the same old fight for his place and to the jo}'^ of all who know him has won his third monogram. "Hon­est" Dave Hayes is the never-say-die type of fighter that 5'^ou read about and a man of whom Notre Dame is particularly proud. 
HEARTLEY WILLIAM ANDERSON. 
Heartle}'^ Anderson, whose slogan, "I'll do the best we can," was adopted as the watch­word of the whole team, formed a perfect run­ning-mate for "Morrie" Smith. A veritable Roosevelt Dam on defensive and the proverbial "Big"Bertha" on offensive, "Hunk" has proved at least a match for any of his opponents: He is the t5'-pe of man who plays the game for the sheer love of playing—a man who would rather fight for the Gold and Blue than eat, a man whose happiness comes in the glor}'- of his team and of his school rather than in plaudits for an}'" individual achieveinent of his own. That a man of this stamp is of incalculable value to the morale of a team goes without saying. Anderson started with his "pal," Ojay Larson, in 1918, and his sterling heart, remarkable strength, and admirable grit will be at the service of Notre Dame for the last time in 1921. 
JOSEPH RALPH BRANDY 
- It was in 1915 that the Gold and Blue aban­doned the slam-bang, line-rush type of football; since then it" has depended in great measure and with unique success upon the condition, speed, and intelligence of the men." Since 1917 Joe Brandy, of Ogdensburg, New York, has been the brain and nen'-e center of the. most "effective attack and defense devised in recent years, the Harper-Rockne system, Joe has signalized his career as field general of the Gold and Blue teams by leading them in four successful invasions of the East. Three of these resulted in victories over" the-Army, at West Point, in \vhich Brandy did much more than merety give orders; the fourth proved a triumph over Washington and'Jefferson—^which was de­nominated "a pure Brandy vic­tory." . Joe .has the unique honor of -ha-ving led two successive Notre Dame squads to eighteen victories in succession. On 


^ e Noure dome Schokiwnc i67 
more than one momentous occasion the fortune of the day depended upon the "Little General's" quick judgment, and he was always there with the right play. His coolness, counsel, and courage never failed at a crisis. Coach Rockne designates him the ideal quarterback, "cool under the heaviest fire; sure to send the right play to the right place, and a clean,* inspiring fighter of the unbeatable type." 
FREDERIC ADOLPHUS LARSON. Everyone knew that Larson would be a flying buttress in Rockne's stone-wall line of 1920. He had proved himself in the fall of 1918 when, in his first year of collegiate football, he won his monogram with ease. . This year there were sore and weary Nebraskans, tired and humbled Cadets, and weak and staggering sons of Northwestern whose broken spirits could testify to the power of this mighty center far more convincingly than the pen of any critic. It may be reasonably urged that Larson was the best center in Hoosier football—the sport-writers who chose their champions from "Mau­mee Tech" and "The Montague School of Nursing" to the contrary. Notre Dame will be most fortunate in having " Ojay's'' services for two more years, during which time he may be depended upon to do his part in making our record of the future a worthy sequel to that of the past. 
ARTHUR ALOYSIUS GARVEY. "Hector" Garvey, the star among the Notre Dame Freshmen of 1919, substituted this year for Captain Frank Coughlin and developed into a most reliable understudy. Although a novice in rank, he played the game like a veteran whenever the opportunity was given him. He was a demon on offense and impregnable on defense. He had a habit of opening huge holes in opposing lines, as if they were made of tissue paper, and it was not an infrequent sight to see him break through and throw an opposing back for a big loss. He was in the Indiana game only a few minutes, but during that time he nailed the "Hoosier" backs in their tracks on five consecutive plays. For a large man, stand­ing six feet and one inch and weighing two hun­dred and fifteen pounds, he is exceptionally fast in getting down the field. under punts. Arthur has two more years to play, and if his past performances are a presage of what is to develop, his name will go down in the Notre Dame hall of fame as one of our greatest linemen. 
MAURICE FRANCIS SMITH To the Notre Dame men of the- last three years the name "Morrie" Smith means grit, courage, and fight. The phrase "only a guard" has come to be an affection­ate tribute to this modest '' Movie." Smith is in the completest sense "a Rockman," for be it known that this stellar midget of the line, hailing from Central IIH­nois, played his 'first football under the Miracle J.Ian at Kotre Dame. His career really began in the memorable game against the team of the Great Lakes Training Station in the war time, in which contest he proved conclusively that size and weight are by no means the sole qualifications of a real linesman. With one year of experience the little guard became a recognized star and in 1919 was placed or mentioned in all the best selections of All-Westerners. This year he has credited himself with the critics of both East and West as "the lightest big-time guard in the United States.". It goes without saying that he has provided for himself a lasting place in Notre Dame's hall of famous athletes. 
PAUL HENRY CASTNER 

Paul Castner, the rangy son of St. Paul, Minnesota, was the star fullback of the great Freshman eleven of 1919. He is the natural football player of the titan type. He has a left foot that is already educated to an advanced degree, and on several occasions this fall did Coach Rockne sigh, "Another good ball gone wrong," as Castner's trusty south toe sent the spiral down the field. His attack is varied; his line-plunging is a feature in every game in which he takes, part, and his open-field running is sensational for a fullback. He had of course during the season much brotherly opposition in the persons of Wynne and Phelan. This peerless triumvirate of fullbacks has been the despair of opposing teams. Paul has two more years in which to make himself All-American, and if he continues to grow as during the las two years, even Mr. Walter Camp will be able to observe in the West another Eichenlaub. 
i68 'S^e Norre bame Scholastic ' 
ROGER JOSEPH KILEY. ­
Playing his second season on the Varsit}'-, Roger Kiley easily lived up to all that had been expected of him and by his star work enrolled himself without question in that goodl}'- company of famous Notre Dame eiids. He. was one of the main men in Notre Dame's noted aerial attack and established for himself the reputa­tion of being one of the best receivers of the forward pass in the countr}'-. His defensive work was of the highest order, and—^to quote the New York critic on his and Ed. Anderson's ability, to get down under punts: "Fast! wh)'' the}'- couldn't come an}'" faster and be human!" "Rog" was honored with a place on the second, All-Western team of the Chicago Daily. News and has been picked for several -All-State selections. Notre Dame is indeed fbrtunate in ha^^ng this man eligible for another year. 
EDWARD NICHOLAS ANDERSON. 
Eddie Anderson has fulfilled the duties of regular end on Notre Dame teams for the last three seasons, but never before has this star shone as during this fall. He. was on the re­
.ceiving end of many a sensational forward-pass from Gipp,. and ,not a few touchdowns made by the "Rockmen" are credited to this husky right end. As a defensive player Eddie has no superior and his skilful manner of evading inter­ference and of breaking back into plays is a spectacle admired by friend and foe alike. He shares with Kiley the tribute of the Eastern critics, "the best seen in the East this year." He is given a place on Snyder's second All-American and is named as member of several of the All-State and All-Western teams. .The big lowan has another year to play, and-the Notre. Dame followers have no niisgivings con­cerning, the right end on-the team,-,of 1921. 

LAWRENCE TIMOTHY SHAW. . "Buck" Shaw is too modest and unassuming to be a hero, but he.ranks with, that legion of great warriors, whose prowess is unsung. He has .received comparatively." few. press notices; .yet he is .regarded by ids teammates, as a truly great tackle. As fast as any end,.a.hard, low tackier, and an .effective charger, he .played, a. wonderfully consistent, game - throughput the season. . "An end playing alongside-Biick Shaw on defense is.a mere observer,".is-what, one ,wise wing-mah says about Shaw. j. He fits : so naturally and neatly into-; MsVpositipn that; 
his .work lacks that sensational element which often secures all-star mention. This might}'­lineman will be back- nex-t-^year for his final season with the Gold and Blue. 
JOHN HENRY MOHARDT. 

It is generally agreed that Johnnie Mohardt was one.^of the best backs of the year. He alternated with "Norm" Barry as Gipp's running-mate and always held up his side with ease. A grouiid-gainer of unusual ability, he slipped around the Army ends for distances of from five to twenty-five yards. He was.fast and elusive, and once started Mohardt could outdistance any opposition. Nebraska, Indiana, and North-western as weU as the Cadets wit­nessed his work with mingled feelings of ad­miration and despair. • He has another year of eligibility, and with Danny Coughlin as a part-r ner for him, Notre Dame is little worried about her prospects for another brainy, smashing,­
• title-winning back-rfield when next October rolls around. 
DANIEL MARTIN COUGHLIN. 

Not a few are of the mind that Danny Cough­lin will be a worthy successor of the famed Gipp. There is at least no doubt in the minds,of those who have seen him perform on Cartier Field that he" will develop into a star of the first magnitude. In open-field running he has few equals. He squirms, dodges, ducks, and shakes off tackiers in whatever number "they come at him—^just how, no one seems to know. The season just finished .was his first year with the Varsity. Last year he was one of the mainstays of the star Freshman; eleven. Football is not his only sport j as he is a star performer on the basketball court and, after the fashion of his Northlandj he plays hockey.. We expect to hear much more about him before the end of the year and all about him next fall. 
WILLIAM LAWRENCE Voss.. Last year Bill Voss came to Notre Dame and. played center for^thelFreshmen. When, however, he returned in September looking so well corn-fed. Coach Rockne discerned in him the makings of a wond^urjtackle,-and.accordingly shifted himfroih cehtei' to the,exalted position.of tackle opposite^Hector Garvey.^This brace;of fighters: taught liianyCopppsing .teams, the fine points, in football, ajtidjtriore than: dhce their. fight paved the -way-to yictpry-for ttiie^Vafsity. Big of frame 
and fast of foot, Voss has the ideal build for a prominent member of Notre Dame's "wrecking tackle. His chief accomplishment is his abiHty crew, ".the second-string - line. He-worked in' on the offense; and many a time during the the primary defense with 190 pounds of season did he pave the way for a substantial beef and excelled in hard, low tackling that gain by one of his backs. On the defense he is a hurt. Offensively, too, he was. ever on the alert terrible tiger, crashing down the interference and was effective at blocking and passing, of the opposition-and making'the tackle easy Already a player of Varsity calibre, the big for the end. His o nly fault—and this one he fellow promises even better ^football next year, does not confess—is the persistent size of his He came to Notre Dame with no previous appetite. He has two more years, in which he football experience, and the season of 1921 is destined to make for himself d name among the will be his third, last,.knd best season on the few." Gold and Blue squad. 
DONALD CHESTER GRANT. JAMES RYAN DOOLEY 
"Chet" Grant returned to us this year after As was anticipated by all who knew him, playing the game "Over There" as a lieutenant. "Big Jim" Dooley came through . and ap-He weighs but 150 pounds, but his lack of avoir- propriated his second monogram this season, dupois was no handicap when it came to running Carrying with- all grace more than two hundred back punts, at which task he is as elusive as an pounds of avoirdiipois and possessing a keen eel. Individuall}'- Grant is a dangerous man at knowledge of the gridirpn game, the Massa­all times, and as a field general he ranks with chusetts giant was a very obstinate, problem the best. In the Purdue and Northwestern for every opponent that met him. Whenever a games, particularly, he showed every quality play was shot at the Notre Dame line Dooley that bespeaks a star on the gridiron and, need- was invariably and effectively there to stop it. / less to say, Rockne can be sure that the pivot He has another year ahead of him, and the big position will be well taken care of next fall. fellowisnotthekindof athlete that disappoints. 
GLEN MICHAEL CARBERRY. • EARL FRANCIS WALSH. 
"Judge" Carberry literally made himself Earl "Katie" Walsh played with the handicap felt whenever a play started in the direction o'f of a bad knee, and as'a* result failed to do all left end. With his 1S5 .pounds of high-power the brilliant things predicted of him by those muscle he regularly knocked the opposition into who admired his strong line-plunging and fierce submission with his hard tackling. "Judge", tackling of last year. Walsh'did not have started four games with the second string, and sufficient opportunity to prove himself, par-in each instance put'up a smashing defense, ticularly on offense. In those games in which which took the fight out of the opposing backs, he took part, he- either was not called upon to 
•When on other occasions he was substituted for carry the ball often or was hurt in the first few Kileyheplayedstrongfootball, especially on the minutes of play.» Nevertheless, as his knee im­defense. At West Point he was in the game for , proved so .did his work, and toward the dose only a few, minutes, but the Cadet, backfield of the season he was showing flashes of his old was painfully aware of his brief presence.' 'As a form in every kind of play. Willingness to help defensive man "Judge" 'has few'superiors, the-other' fellow is a virtue of consequence in and with two more years to pla}'- he-should fobtball as elsewhere, and Walsh possessed this develop into an end entitled to take'rank with virtue in a "high" degree./ He has another year Notre Dame's greatest wing guardians. ;"" ' toVcompete, and if he gets ah. even break in 
„ ' ,^ • •••-. ' -luck^" Kate" can be counted upon'to bear out. HARRY TAMES MEHRE. . . ,. :. .-:-i, t. -r ­
•' -; -.,.. . in'1921'the prophecies 01 1919. 
Harry, "Red", Mehre played center..like-a . -. . ...-, . . i regular.whenever called upon during the season. .. RoBERa^^RiCHARD. PHELAN.^ Off-the field he was one of the squad's comedians, , The third of-Rockne's great trio. of strapping but his sense of. humor .did not appeal to.the fullbacks:, is Robert Phelau. Together.. with backs who attempted to gain-through the middle Paul; Castner he ..backed up.- Wynne' in. most of the- line when he was facing them.- He gave masterl}'-. fashion, and witk them hewill return 
•mors than .one aspiring. line-plunger_a, tragic next year to.inake that positionjn the Notre bump.' Big, strong,. and> fast, .'.\Red." was. a Dame backfield.still/stronger.-,.As a consistent" 


I70 'Sfie Nocre ^me Schdascic 
punter and a shifty, crashing line-plunger, he has brought cheers from the Gold and Blue supporters in ever}'- game on Cartier field this year. Chicago saw some of his work in the game at Evanston and Lansing watched him plow through the line of the "Rustics." 
The Coaches. 
COACH KNUTE K . ROCKNE. 
In the football world "Mr. Knute K. Rockne, director of athletics at Notre Dame, is entitled "the Miracle Man of 1920"; by the student-body of the University he is considered "the greatest coach of all times"; to his football men on the field he is known simply and affec­tionatel}'- as "Rock." As a student-athlete, as' assistant-coach, and finally as head coach, he has a record of ten successful years at Notre Dame without a break,. With not a little reason has he been caUedr the "Victory Builder." In his first three years at Notre Dame, 1911 to 1913, the football team did not- sujffer a single defeat in twenty-two games. In his last 3;ear as player he captained the great Western eleven that startled the East, West, and South. As assistant-coach from 1914 to 1917 his Hnemen did more than their share in the remarkable - victories of that period. When as successor to Coach Jesse Harper he took full charge of Notre Dame athletics in the war year of 1918 the football conditions were hope­less, but Rockne would not see them so. He drilled a squad of men averaging only 160 pounds and made of them one of the most heroic of Notre Dame's fighting teams. This midget Varsity fought the heavy Nebraska to a tie in the mud, won from Purdue, Wabash, and Case, and for a surprise climax tied the team of the Great 
Lakes Training Station, the national champions of that year. In 1919 Rockne's squad of veterans romped home without a defeat or a tie—in such an impressive way as to disconcert most of the adverse critics. If any further success was needed to prove Coach Rockne and his Notre Dame system, it has been superabun­dantly provided this year. The success which has so uniformly attended his work Coach Rockne modestly and sincerely attributes to 
the quality of the material provided him, to 
the unmatched morale of the squad, to the 
superb leadership of such captains as Frank 
Coughlin, to the natural • football instinct of 
such players as Gipp, Brandy, and Smith— 
summarily to the clean living, clear thinking, 
and hard fighting of his men. These no doubt 
have been important elements in Notre Dame's 
football successes, but we believe that they 
would have been of little consequence without 
the coaching of Rockne. His great elevens have 
on every occasion, and especially in the more 
trying ones, reflected the keenness, determina­
tion, and sportsmanship of their great coach— 
showing themselves true "Rockmen." 
In order to make sure that our Notre Dame 
estimate of Coach Rockne is not an overestimate, 
we have asked several experts in football for an 
opinion concerning his work, and, with gratitude 
to them for kindness in sending us their words, 
we take great pleasure in quoting here their 
several - testimonies: 
Major C. D. Daly, football coach at West 
Point: 
"The Army-Notre Dame game has always been one of the best of the large intersectional contests. We have always found the Notre Dame team to be most excellent sportsmen, playing the cleanest and hardest of football, good losers and generous winners. It is very easy for me to testify to the high ability of Mr. Rockne. The clean sportsmanship of his teams and the high-grade, winning quality of their play leaves no doubt that^Mr. Rockne is among the very best coaches in this country. It is a pleasure to so testify." 
Walter H. Eckersall, sports-editor of the Chicago Tribune, writes to us concerning Coach Rockne: 

"It has been my pleasure to know Knute Rockne ever since he broke into football fame as a member of an eleven in one of the prepara­tory schools of Chicago. In those days, when he never dreamed of coaching an eleven which today is rated among the powerful of the country, Knute was a keen observer. It was his ability to absorb conditions and to reason for himself that Jhas really made him the coach who is rated among the leading gridiron mentors of the country. Even in his preparatory-school days there was little about end-play he did not know, and when he entered Notre Dame he was considered a superb flank-player. 
'' When Jesse Harper was in charge of the discover, .and were, a well-balanced team. football situation, Rockne was generally; sent Although Coach Rockne turns out smart ioot­away on Saturday to scout games. Dn a ball teams, this is the best team I have seen.". number of occasions I acted as an official in George E- Keogan, athletic director at games which he saw, and in our talks after the Valparaiso' University: ^ contests I learned that he had a thorough inside "One of the greatest pleasures of my season knowledge of Notre Dame's future opponents. at Valparaiso University w.as the opening of In other words, he was one of the best football relations between Notre Dame and Valparaiso. scouts I have ever known. Since he assumed' We feel that we played the best team in the complete charge of football, Rockne has con­West. One cannot give too much credit to the formed to Western Conference rules.. Notre man responsible"^or this great machine. Notre Dame athletic teams are respected wherever Dame .refiects ^ the spirit of Coach Rockne. they go, and there are not a few who would Game, alwa;5'-s a fighter, and always a live like to see the institution a member of the sportsman, Coach Rockne has accomplished Conference. •» wonders at the Catholic school and has placed . 
"Coach Rockne possesses all the traits which Notre Dame's athletics on a plane with those go to make a clean sportsman. Unlike some of any university in the West." football coaches, • Knute never criticises the C. - L. • Brewer, athletic director at the work of a football official, and he is a. pleasant Michigan Agricultural College: • ­man to work for. He can take a defeat just as "I have, known Coach Rockne personally gracefully as a \n.ctor3'-, and the outside world since his first entrance into Western football, appreciates such a character. Coach Rockne and I know him to be a clean, hard-playing, "^ knows football and he knows how to teach it.-square sportsman. It is m}?- judgment that the Notre Dame will continue to have strong elevens 1920 Notre Dame football team is-one of the so long as he is' at the helm, and it is hoped strongest. and most versatile teams ever de­that some day in the near future, Notre.Dame veloped either in the East ox in the-West." will be a member of the Western Conference." Harry Gill, Athletic Director at the University 
B. 0- Stiehm, athletic director at the Uni-of Illinois:' versit}'- of Indiana: "I have often been greatly impressed with the 
"In all my personal and athletic relations success 'of ' the Notre Dame football teams, with Mr. Knute K. Rockne I have always found especially,.within the last few seasons. - With him a gentleman and a sportsman. Athletic only a comparatively smaU. student-body to relations- between Notre Dame and Indiana choose frorh and playing a schedule that neces-* were resumed primarily because of Mr. Rockne. sitates-niuch travel, it seems to me that Coach I know that he will insist upon standard eligi-Rockne's success with the team is truly remark­bilit}'- rules and play clean, -hard, advanced able." : -' ^ ^ * football. The Notre Dame team of 1920 is T. E. Jones, football coach in the University one of the very best teams Notre 'Dame has of Wisconsin: ' . • . ever had, and I have been; watching Notre "I have known Mr. Rockne for the last six Dame elevens for many 3'ears. The team is or. seven- years—during athletic relationships clever, ;aggressive, and of championship caliber. between our institutions. -I am glad to say that I hope it will be possible to continue our athletic I regard Mr. Rockne as one of the best coaches relations." . . : in the business. He has been remarkably sue-. 
N. A. Kellogg, athletic, director at Purdue cessful in both football and track, and has made University: . ^ . .• • ;. > • and .kept Notre Dame a leader in athletics." , 
 '' You can say for publicity over my name that James Phelan, football coach at the University Notre Dame has a great football team and a of. Missouri: . • ". -. , ' • ." fine coach." -'' ,4 • -"Coach Rockne'by his untiring effort," his 
A. , G. Scanlon, football coach • at Purdue. superhuman:energy,:and by his driving, forceful University:. -. --'r '• • '-personality;-, combined with, a thorough knowl­"I wish to sa}^ that the Notre Dame: team edge of: football, has succeeded in developing on the day that we' played them; November one of the greatest football teams of all times. 
6th, was. the best-looking^team that I have ever He has not only developed a great football team, seen. They had no weaknesses that T.-could but.:hie.has been* responsible :for establishing, 

 '^e Noicre Same ^hdascle 
the famous Notre Dame system. Notre Dame is one of the few colleges with a real football system, and Coach Rockne is the man who has developed this system to its present state of perfection. Notre Dame plays a brand of football all her own, and the players ar,e of a type found only at Notre Dame. There is that fight, drive, and slam-bang attitude about the team which results in a style of game which can be imitated elsewhere but can be produced only at Notre Dame. Rockne has originated and developed a style of end-play which has not been equalled; his line-play is clever and is distinctively his own st3de; and the outstanding feature of a Notre Dame team is the brainy, 
n r 1 J n ij.- 1. 1 -u-v.
reckless, fearless, and fighting back which typifies what we coaches call Notre Dame or Rockne football. Captain Coughlin and George Gipp are without doubt the two greatest stars in present-day football, and praise from me would add little to the gloiy^ of these two All-American men." 
John W. Head, sports-editor of the Indian­apolis Star: 
"Football is the great college sport. It is played, patronized,, and appreciated in even the remotest sections of the United States. But there is not a place so far removed from Indiana as not to have heard of Notre Dame football teams and the snowy-haired coach, Knute K. Rockne. For years and years Notre Dame has been noted for its football teams; but in all those years, even with Eichenlaub, Rockne, Feeney, Dorais, and myriad others, no team has created such a record as the 1920 team—^uiider the tutelage of the former Notre Dame star-performer, Knute K. Rockne. For two years the team has sailed along without a defeat and has been looked upon ^as the championship team of the Middle West. With each succeeding game added glory has been piled up for Notre Dame and Hoosierdom. Not only have Notre Dame football teams advertized the University, but in doing so they have heaped laurels upon our Hoosier State, 
((/ 
'The Notre Dame team has been referred to as Gipp and Co., but it is far from this, for with the peerless half-back removed from the contest, the Irish machine has been able to smother all opposition. With Gipp in harness and playing as he knows how, the Notre Dame eleven is practically unbeatable. It is a well-oiled 1920 football machine that Notre Dame boasts of and one that every alumnus, student, or 
 follower of Notre Dame may well be proud of."  Charles W. Bachman, football coach at the  Kansas State Agricultural College: 
 "Notre Dame football and K. K. Rockne  have become synonymous. The team of 1920  stands out pre-eminently as the peer of any in  the country. No teain in the history of Notre  Dame football has brought more glory to the  name of our Alma Mater and to its able mentor  than the team of 1920. The clock-like precision  which characterized the play of the Notre Dame  team during the past season stands out as a 

 glowing  tribute  to  the  coaching  ability  of  
 '' Rock.''  
­ COACH  _^ WALTER  ^^ HALAS  /  

 The announcement came last summer after  two weeks of uncertainty in which the Univer­ sity Athletic Board considered the qualifiea­ tions of a whole corps of candidate coaches  whose records are on the tongue-tip of every  follower of athletics, that Mr. Walter Halas  was commissioned as adjutant to field-marshal  Rockne. Within the few months since then the  new coach has proved himself on the football 

field to the satisfaction of all at Notre Dame,  He was, however, engaged primarily because  of his prestige as a mentor in baseball. 
 Last season Halas was an Integral unit on the  pitching staff of Bloomington in the Three­ Eye League, where his variety of delivery was  such as to dissipate the hopes of any .300  aspirants who faced him, and his work attracted  not a little attention from major-league experts.  He is a graduate of the University of Illinois  and a three-letter man in Illini athletics. He  played end on the eleven that cleaned up the  rest of the Conference in 1918, which fact  accounts for one monogram; his consistent  performance during three years in the Illinois  basketball five earned for him the second letter,  and as a slab artist on the always powerful  nine of the Champagne school, he starred in his  favorite sport for the third "I." It is said that  when Halas took leave of his Alma Mater  Coach Zuppke for the first time in his criss­ cross career used his handkerchief for lachrymal  purpose. The Somerset High School in Ken­ tucky was gainer by his graduation from col­ lege. The quality of the young coach was sooii  advertized when Somerset took the bliie ribbon  in four departments of interscholastic sport, 
 Thus Rockne's running-mate came to Notre  Dame with a reputation worthy of the Gold 

'^ e Moure ©ameSchoiascicf ^73 
and Blue standards. The press, from Maine to Montana, concedes Notre Dame to be on the gridiron the best in the West and as good as anything anywhere else, and Coach Halas is using his energy and skill with a view to having the Varsity execute its basketball schedule wdth equal success. 
As for baseball, which is the forte of the new coach—Halas himself is of the opinion that a few more candidates for the big leagues will be forthcoming next spring, w^hich reminds of the fact that Notre Dame has graduated from her diamond more major-league men than any other college campus. —STARRETT-STEVBNSON. 
The Notre Dame All-Honor Men. 

It has not been possible, of course, to give explicitl}'" in this issue full credit to the men of the football team which represented Notre Dame on the gridiron of 1920. By way of compensation we present here a few of the many mythical elevens on w^hich Notre Dame men have found place and notice of the" honor­able mentions received by others, as indication of the*regard in which "the Wonder Men of 1920" are held in the football world. 
Mr. Walter Camp's annual selection of AU-American football teams no longer elicits the blind faith which was accorded it some years ago. There has been year by year a growing sentiment against the provincial one-man judgement as to who is who on the gridiron. Nevertheless, Mr. Camp's list is still more highly regarded than-that of any other single critic. His selection for this year, appearing this week in Collier's Weekly, bears witness to the force of public opinion. Mr. Camp, in company with some other critics, has at length come to realize the' quality of Western football, which until a year or two ago was openly made little of in the East. • This year for the first time Mr. Camp selects for his first team a player from a Catholic school. That man, George Gipp, of Notre Dame, has, no doubt, won his way to this distinction by force, of previous, unanimous, and nationwide selection -of him as one of the 
. very greatest football players of all time— which verdict would have made utterly ridi­culous any All-American selection which ignored him. In addition to naming one of Notre Dame's great eleven for a first place, Mr. Camp ' gives "honorable mention" to Eddie Anderson, Maurice Smith, John Mohardt, and Captain 
Coughlin. In ranking the ten best teams of the season the, Yale mentor places Notr.e Dame third, after Princeton and Harvard. Ohio State, Notre Dame's only rival for first honors in Western football, is given ninth place on the list. The following are Mr. Camp's selections: 
FIRST TEAM 
End—Carney, Illinois 
Tackle—Keck, Princeton 
Guard—Callahan, Yale 
Center—Stein, Pittsburg* 
Guard—^Woods, Harvard 
Tackle—Scott, Wisconsin 
End—^Fischer, Georgia Tech. 
Quarter—Lourie, Princeton 
. Halfback—Stinchcomb, Ohio 
Halfback—Way, Penn State 
Fullback—Gipp, Notre.Dame 


SECOND TEAM THIRD TEAM 
' Urban, Boston College E. Ewan, Navy Goetz, Michigan • T. Voss, Detroit Wilkie, Navy G. Breidster, Army Cunningham; Dartmouth C. Havemeyer, Harvard Alexander, Syracuse G. Trott, Ohio State McMillan, California T. Dickens, Yale LeGendre, Princeton E. MuUer, California McMillin, Center Q-Boynton, Williams Garrity, Princeton H..B. . Haines, Penn State Da vies, Pittsburg H. B. Leach, Virginia M. I. French, Army F. B. Hortveen, Harvard 
Dean Snyder, for the National Enterprise Association, presents^ the following as first and second AU-American teams of this year: 
FIRST TEAM SECOND TEAM 
r 

MuUer, California R. E. Weston, Wisconsin Keck, Princeton R. T. Scott, Wisconsin Tolbert, Harvard R. G. Acosta, Yale Depler, Illinois C. Alexander, Syracuse Grifiiths, Penn State " L. G. Woods, Harvard Sonnenberg, Dartmouth L. T. Smoot, Oklahoma Carney, Illinois L. E. E- Anderson, N. D. McMilUn, Centre Q. B.' Lourie, Princeton White, Oklahoma R. H. Haines; Penn State Gipp, Notre Dame L. H. Stinchcomb, Ohio Horween, Harvard F. B. Crangle, Illinois 
Mark Kelly in the Herald-Examiner, of Chicago gives as his 1920 All-Westerns: 
FIRST TEAJI SECOND TEAM Weston, Wisconsin R. E. Belding, Iowa McGuire; Chicago R. T. Scott, Wisconsin Smith, Notre Dame R. G. Huffman, Ohio Depler, Illinois C. Bunge, Wisconsin McCaw, Indiana L: G. Taylor,* Ohio Coughlin, Notre Dame L- T. Goetz, Michigan Carney, Illinois L. E. Hanny, Indiana Devine, Iowa Q. B. Brandy, Notre Dame , Stinchcomb,: Ohio R. H. Fletcher Illinois' Gipp, Notre Dame L.. H. Oss, Minnesota' Crangle, Illinois F. B. Kyle, Indiana 


John W. Head, sports-editor of the Indiana­



iU ^ e Hocre 6ame S'choiagcic 
polis Stai', offers these two selections as the first and second All-Indiana: 
FIRST TEAM SECOND TEAM Anderson, Notre Dame L. E. Carmen, Purdue Milstead, Wabash L. T. Claj'^pool, Purdue Couglilin, Notre Dame L. G. Huugate, Butler Ogden, DePauw C. Pierce, Indiana Rislej', Indiana R. G. Smith, Notre Dame Birk, Purdue R. T. Leonard, Indiana Hanny, Indiana R. B. Kiley, Notre Dame Elingslover, Franklin Q. B. Mathys, Indiana Gipp, Notre Dame L. H. Englehard, Rose Poly Mohardt, Notre Dame R. H. Galloway, DePauw Kj^le, Indiana F. B. Wynne, Notre Dame 
In connection with these selectio.ns Head gives honorable mention to Shaw, as tackle, to Larson as center, to Brandy as quarterback, and to Barry as halfback. -f 
These selections are published, here in full because the}"" do more justice, we believe, to the Notre Dame stars than an}'' others that have come to our notice. Lack of space does not permit our publishing the numerous other selections which give,place to one or more of the Notre Dame players, and the best we can do is to show summaril}'- where credit has been given. 
George Gipp is refeixed to in connection with the All-Star Eastern team selected by Robert Maxwell for the Philadelphia Public Ledger as the greatest half-back of the season. He is placed as half-back: on the Buffalo Courier's All-American; the Boston Post's All-American, by Neil R. O'Hara; the New York Evening Telegram's All-American, by Vernon Van Ness; 
"the New York News' All-American team, by John Poster; the New York American's All-American, by Arthur Robinson; the Washing­ton Evening Star's All-American; the New York Tn&MweV. All-American;' the Chicago News' All-American, by' MacLean; the Philadelphia Bulletin's All-American; the New York Herald's All-American, by Daniels; the United Press' All-American, by Henry L. Farrell; the Associa­ted Press- All-East,-West-and-South back­

1 field, by Grantland Rice; the Chicago Tribune's All-Western, by Eckersall; the National Enter­prise^ Association's All-American, by Dean Snyder; the Chicago Herald-Examiner's All-Western, by Mark Kelly; the Chicago Journal's All-Western; the South Bend Tribune's All-Western, by Kessler; the Indianapolis Star's All-Indiana, by John W. Head; the Youngs­
\iown Daily's All-American, by Jack Vieock;' and Carl A. Reed's AU-American. There 
were no doubt .some dozen other All-Americaii selections honoring the great half-back which have not come to our notice. 
Frank Coughlin, Notre Dame's great ta'ckle 
.and captain, is placed at his position on: the All-American of the Chicago News, hj MacLean; the All-Western of the Chicago Tribune, by Eckersall; the All-Western of the Chicago Herald-Examiner, by Mark Kelly; the All-Western of the South Bend Tribune, by Kessler; the All-Indiana of the Indianapolis Star, by John Head; the All-Indiana of the Indianapolis News, by Hendricks; the All-Indiana, of the Indianapolis Times; and on the second All-American of the Youngstown Daily, by Jack Vieock. 
Eddie Anderson is given'place at left end on Dean Snyder's All-American, and on the All-American of the New York Herald, by FarreU; on the All-Western teams of the Chicago/ownm/, the South Bend Tribune, and the Chicago Post; on the All-Indiana teams of the Indianapolis Star, the Indianapolis News, and. the Indiana­polis Times. 
Maurice Smith is honored with his position as guard on the All-Western of the Chicago Herald-Examiner, by Mark. Kelly; on the second All-Western of the Chicago Tribtme, by Eckersall; on the second All-Western of the Chicago Post, and of the South Bend Tribune, by Kessler; on the first All-State of the South Bend Tribune, and the second All-State of the Indianapolis Star, by = John W. Head. 
Farrell, in" connection with his selections for the New York Herald, gives special praise to Kiley, Shaw7 Mohardt, Wj'^nne, and Brandy in comments on the Arm}'' game, rating.them as the best seen in the East in 1920. Mark Kelly, in the Herald-Examiner placed Brandy as quarterback-for his . second All-Western team, and named Kiley, Larson, and Wynne ias deserving honorable inention. The first team of the Chicago Post included Gipp and Couglilin; the second team, Kiley, Anderson, and Smith. Wynne led the fullbacks for hpnor­able mention. (Mohardt was mentioned for halfback, and a half column was devoted to Gipp's remarkable work, jack Vieock of the Youngstown Daily -^ic^s Roger Kiley for his 

-All-American, along with George Gipp, and gives honorable mention to Brandy, Mohardt, and Wynne, The Chicago /owrwaZ'^ All-Ameri­can selections placed Gipp and Coujghlin as: regulars, arid mentionejd: favorably E^ley >nd 


'^eHocre 6ameSchoiagcic ilS 
Anderson at end, Smith at Guard, and Barry at half. Eugene Kessler, of the South Bend Tribune chooses E- Anderson, Coughlin, Mo­hardt, and Gipp for his first All-Western, and Kiley, Larson, and Smith for his second. On his first Indiana selection he gives places to E. Anderson, Coughlin, Larson, Smith, Kiley, Mohardt, and Gipp, and on his second to Shaw, 
T * 
H. Anderson, Brandy, and Wynne. Thomas Hendricks of the Indianapolis News indicated Notre Dame's monopoly on "the State laurels by selecting for his first team Coughlin, Smith, Gipp and Barry; for his second, E. Anderson and H. Anderson; and for his third, Mohardt. Honorable mention is given to Carberry, Kiley, Brandy, and Wynne. 
Lawrence Perry of the Associated Press publishes in the Cleveland News one of the most consistent of the All-American selections. George Gipp is the only Notre Dame man selected, but Perry mentions Brandy as the directing force of the smoothest-running offen­sive and hardest defensive team in the country. His eulogy of Gipp is of a piece with the many already pubKshed in these columns. 
Finally, we are sure that no selection of star teams will be.of more interest to our readers than the following one made by Coach Rockne for the SCHOLASTIC and for the American Sports Publishing Company, of New York City, which issues Spaulding's Football Guide, containing the most authoritative selections of the year. It will be obvious to those who have followed closely the football of the country throughout. the season that Coach Rockne's elevens present the maximum in offense and defense. And we do- not believe that_ anyone knowing who's who in football will think him partial' to his ownmen. TheseareCoachRockne'stwoline-ups: 
ALL-AMERICAN ALL-WESTERN Urban, Boston College L. E. Weston, Wisconsin Coughlin, Notre Dame L. T.Coughlin, Notre Dame Griffith, Penn State L- G. McGuire, Chicago Alexander,. Syracuse C. Wallace, Ames Sedgwick, Harvard R. G. * Smith, Notre Dame Keck, Princeton R. T. Voss, Detroit Carney, Illinois R. E- Devine, Iowa Gipp, Notre Dame L. H. Gipp, Notre Dame Davies, Pittsburg R. H. Stinchcomb, Ohio 
Robertson, Dartmouth F. B. 'White. Oklahoma 
Without any reflection on the selections made, it may be believed that several other of the Notre Dame champions would have received All-Western or,All-American honor if they had been distributed in several schools. 
—E. M. STARRETT, '21. 
Varsity Verse. 

LocHiNVAR—1920 MODEL . Young Lochinvar came out of the West And met the Army clan; He cleaned 'em up and beat 'em dowh^— The .gang yelled: "He's a man Who's a man? . -Smithie! Brandy! .Coughlinl". 
The Army lad gave all he had. 
And did it well, say we, • 
But not enough. Young Loch was mad—, 
The gang yelled: "U. N. D. 
Rahl Rah! U. N. D..Rah! Rah! 
•Who Rah! Who Rah? 
• U. N. D. Rah! Rah!.-' . ." Team—Team—Team!" 

He plunged and fought and ran and kicked 
Without a trip or- slip; •­
And all-American was picked— 
The gang yelled: "O Boy, Gipp! ' , 
Give my clothes to the Belgians." 

What mattered it, that first-half score. 
To a lad who loves a fight? 
He plunged the line, round ends he tore ^ 
The gang yelled:' -'He's all right! 
Who's all right? 
Mohardt! Kileyl Eddie!" 

Go, east, go west, go north; go south. 
He treats 'em all the same. ­
When evening comes the same old gang 
Yells: "Sis-s-s, Boom! Notre Dame-
Hunk, Wynne, Larson, Shaw! 
Barry! Grant! Rah! Roh! 
^FRANK WALLACE­
"HUNK." 
When the Gold and Blue is forced to fight And battle for a yard; Who tears a hole in the opponents'. line? * Why Hunk, our-fighting guard. 
But when our team is driven back 
And a victory seems so hard;. 
Who tackles the runner for a loss? 
Why Hunk, bur fighting guard. ~ 
Now if I were a Walter Camp And wrote of the men.who starred. Upon whom would-I heap my praise? Why -Hunk; our fighting guard.—^H; E- MCK. 

"PRAESXAMXJS" ' From out of the West Came Rockne's crew, .­A band of warriors tried and true; ; = They answered '-'here"; the whistle blew-7-- .r Cadets you did your best— " .. : : . ..­The fighting team from Notre Dame Once more wrote victory 'round its name.-^^A> j . c. 

^ & Houre Same ^eholascie? 
The Master of the Megaphone. 

If at some time in the years to come the Dome should prematurety cave in, Alfred 
N. Slaggert will be held responsible. It was his power of persuasion in calling forth at the football gamesthe " U. N. D." in such a volume of voices as to tr};-several of the venerable structures on the campus. His interpretation and direction made of the. "Notre Dame Victory-Song" a classic of the gridiron. The spirit of the men of Notre Dame has always been remarkable; but it has been reserved aU these years to Cheer­leader Slaggert, however, to make through the medium of perfect organization the most of that' spirit for the big athletic purposes of 1920. He has acquitted himself of the task as only Slaggert could. The enthusiasm of the "old­grads" at the Home-coming was testimony to the success of the demonstration at the Purdue game, as at all the others. 
Captain Coughlin, who from the beginning of the season persistently urged the importance of enthusiastic student support as condition of a successful team, has spoken most highly of Slaggert's work. Needless to say, the Captain has voiced at the same time the sentiment of all the other members of the team. The finely lo3'-al cheering in the Notre Dame gymnasium on that anxious Saturday afternoon when Rockne's men at Indianapolis were fighting the fight of their lives to overcome in the latter half of the battle the lo-to-o lead which Indiana had scored upon them was a manifestation of spirit to be remembered. Those valiant warriors knew, instinctively that the men here were heart and soul behind them. Did not Eddie Anderson at the very crisis of the conflict which was going all wrong appeal to the team—"Men, for love of the pigskin, remember the kids at home!" This was perhaps at just the instant when Slaggert in a manner which inspired the completest confidence was calling upon the host at home for the cheer demanding two touchdowns—and at the end of that last quarter of the desperate fray the score stood 14 to 10 for Notre Dame. 
Slaggert's practice of holding frequent "pep" meetings in the football season is one that must be continued. It was at these gatherings that the real organization was effected. They are indeed the only practical way of securing the unity necessary to a cheering body that will really help a football team. 
Nor must we fail to acknowledge the good work done by Slaggert's assistants, Emmett Burke and William Eckerle. In all the games at home and in the Northwestern game at Evanston they performed as understudies in leading the cheers, and it is they who will be in charge of the work next year. 
To the freshman of this 3'-ear the spirit of the football season may seem to have had its part as a matter of course; but to the older men and to the alumni, who have had the oppor­tunity to compare this spirit with that shown in former years, it seemed in no small degree extraordinary, and these men are superlative in their appreciation of the work of "Al" Slaggert.—^. w. MURPHY, '23. 
Sometime Ago and Now. 
As a student in high school a few years ago I watched a Notre Dame team beat the team of Wabash College in football. Such a victor}'­was by no means an unusual event in the grid­iron experience of Notre Dame, but to me it was one of extraordinary interest, because I had never before seen a Gold and Blue eleven play. Through the sporting columns of the local press, I had been for years a close follower of university athletics, and my own abnormal appetite for active competition in all kinds of sport had engaged my leisure time. It happened that on the day of this game between Notre Dame and Wabash our high school had no con­test scheduled, and so the players together with their coach and manager eagerl}'' accepted an invitation to be present at the college event.­No doubt it has been in some measure by way of consequence that a considerable number of the members of our Tan and Blue squad have been since then more or less prominently identified with college athletics. Our captain, Walter Kirby, was a brother of Harley Elirby, the famous Irish half-back of old. Berkey and Wolfe our ends, later played at Notre Dame: '' Cupid'' Gross; our bouncing left guard, is now well known to many-Notre Dame students by his combined attractions of personality, interest in Notre Dame football, and skiU as a "res­taurateur." Nicar, Rowe, and Whitaker after­wards starred atstate schools. 
The particular season ih , which the game occurred was that which saw at Notre Dame such men as"Red" Miller, "Pete" Vaughan, "Gap" Edwards,V"Rosie" Dolah, Matthews 


'^ e Noure &ame Scholasrie 
the Indian, Don Hamilton, the giant Ralph Dimmick, Philbrook, and other noted members of the famous team. Wabash at that time properly played under the title of "the Little Giants," a sobriquet earned by their hard, slashing tactics on defense. Their team of 1909 was said to be a good exponent of this style of play, and hence a hard battle with Notre Dame had been predicted, the Northern school, of course, ruling the favorite. The Gold and Blue men, whose exploits had already captured the long-distance admiration of us all, gave us at close quarters every promised thrill. They won the game by a large number of points, although the Giants put up a valiant fight from beginning to end. 
The conclusion of the contest found me in a state of football frenzy, from which I have not yet perhaps altogether recovered. At any rate, I could see "Red" Miller vividly for days pounding down the field from punt formation. his straight arm leaving the ground of his ir­regular wake strewn -with Cayou's tacklers: There was no fence post or tree along the stretch from the entrance of the" university grounds to the street-car line wsich I did not 
.push aside with right or left jab as I cleverly evaded its fancied dive at my legs. It was all I could do to restrain myself from doing the flying tackle at every standing object along my route. Then" I could see m3'-self electrifying future high-school audiences with my lensational blocking. This ambition to become efficient ininterference was inspired in me by sight of the Indian, Matthews, smashing those Wabash ends, who were presumptive enough to start down under the punts. So badly battered was the end who faced "Matty" that toward the close of the game the Notre Dame Star had his man on the ground not two yards from" the line of scrimmage on every kick. In accordance with the style of play which characterized the Notre Dame's defense, the end took care of the oppos­ing end on punt formations and put him out of the play as soon as he could get to him. As the ball was passed to the kicker "Matty" waited, with lowered head, in order to assure himself that a punt was actually intended; then, as the punter's leg swung upward, he gathered himself and made .a short, fierce dash toward his opponent, who stood as if petrified by his approaching fate." With a terrific leg-drive and plunge of his body "Matty" knocked the I/ittle. Giant completely off his feet. He  repeated this procedure on every punt, thus  giving Hamilton the chance to get started on  his many brilliant returns. I decided then and  there to treat somebody in that fashion in my  next game, but I believe, that the resolution  did not materialize; at least, no casualties for the  opposition were reported after our engagement, 
 Only the humilitating realization of my  meagre physical proportions prevented me from  visualizing myself as another "Pete" Vaughan,  whose powerful line-hitting and blocking made  him the All-Western man of that year and,  in spite of a bad knee, a potent factor in Prince­ ton's offense two years later, 
 Since the day of that game two more Millers,  brothers of "Red," have come to Notre Dame,  played their game, and gone; two Dorais'  have risen and retired; a Rockne has come to  play and stayed to coach; an Eichenlaub has  joined the football immortals of the Gold and  Blue; a Mclnerny and a Murphy, I am proud  to say, were my teammates, before they went to 
fight and die for their country. I went from  Notre Dame with these two into the service,  but had to come back without them,^—came  back to new faces,* new rules, and new ideas,  perhaps, but to the same old spirit. I have  watched one Bergman immortalize the name  in Notre Dame football, have tried to help a  second add to its lustre, and am now happy to  be a fellow-student and fellow-athlete of a  third, who promises to do the name all justice, 
 More than a decade of years has passed since  that Notre Dame-Wabash game of vivid re-'  collection. The interval has been time ample  for any man to make his mark in a practical  world. I have not as yet made any mark.  In being human, I want name and fame. Yet I would not exchange what I have now, this  opportunity to obser\'-e and partake in—^with a sense of experience and appreciation which  only experience can give—^Notre Dame's splen­ did spirit, to enjoy her associations and live  her life—^\'-erily, I would not barter my obscure  place on the football team of 1920'f or that which  the world calls success. I am glad.I came back;  I wish that I could stay. And when I do finally  go for good, I shall ask no greater honor than  to be considered friend and comrade by my  teammates, to have Notre Dame and all her  people ever willing to think of me as having  been true to the traditions of Notre Dame  football—as having been, in my poor way, a Notre Dame man.—DONALD C. GRANT, '22­


'S^e Noure &ame S'eholascie 
Ballade to the Team of Old. 
Let's cheer the team that Avon today— The dreamy field is rife with men Who bore the pigskin yesterday. Yes, all this score of years and ten. Ray Eichenlaub is there again. And Salmon speeds the ball away; Dorais was not mightier when He led the Marquette squad astray. 
Let's cheer the team that won today-^— The glory of the Gold-blue men Until the last day's trumpets play Will linger on, and even then If Peter meets a denizen Of Notre Dame, I'm sure he'll say: 
"Rock, get ji^our huskies out again And put the hogside into plaj-^." 
Let's cheer the team that won today— But Kellj'-'s no comedian. The enemy is Dimmick's prey And Bergman is their suzerain; Red Miller eateth posts, I wen, Pete Vaughn is out to slash and slaj"-: Three hundred burly touchdown men Are back to make red holiday. 
Envoi. 
The Gold and Blue has won again— Our ghosts have held their trysting-day; All hail their scattered brothers when We cheer the team that won today.—M. E. w. 


A Word for the "Subs." 
At the end of a football season, when the scribes vie with each other in paying homage to the outstanding warriors of the time, when paper after paper mth'characteristic oversight "plays up" the spectacular half-back or linesman with photographs, full stories of his life, and little anecdotes of his gridiron career, it is surely fitting that we say a word of the men who do disinterestedly so much in the making of great teams, the men who force the stars to a bril­liancy by which their own is made negligible— the "Subs." The rewards of football, like the rewards of any other struggle in life, are limited. Monograms, for instance, if thiey are to mean anything, cannot^ be given to everyone. who strives to make the team; yet who will say that the man who makes the stout, honest effort is not entitled to some word of recognition. 
Certainly it would be a thoughtless, hea,rtless review of our football season at Notre Dame which did not pay the meed of praise to the valiant "Subs" of Notre Dame. Did they not day. after day hurl themselves against the dummy or into the scrimmage with as much good will as the Varsity fullback? Did they not in game after game pace the sidelines pray­ing for just one chance in the fray? Did they not time and again in the crucial moments of the campaign provide fierce opposition while the regulars took the rest which prepared them for triumph? In justice, they have a goodly share of the credit—"The)'- also serve who only stand and wait." 
There was one member of the Notre Dame squad whose peculiar side-steps while travelling around end and whose grace in evading enemy tacklers earned for him the name of "the floating half-back"—"Red" Shea. Nimble as a circus acrobat and brawn}!- as an East-side policeman, his two remaining years should be as glorious as his crimson top-knot. Contrary to all tra­ditions pf the gridiron, he is a commerce man. 
Constant running-mate to Shea arid bantam half-back extraordinary is "Micky" Kane. He refuses to believe that might is essential to' the gridiron hero. "Micky" is one of the lithe, wiry, Joe Brandy type of players—small but fast as the^ proverbial lightning. During the last quarter of the Purdue game at least, his work was nothing short of brilliant. He has ^ two more years at Notre Dame. Wrhile we are 

" speaking of small men who are mighty players, it is time to introduce George Prokop. Having won for himself a monogram in baseball last spring, and believing that one good game demands another, he went in for football in September and made good from the first. As his position in baseball was at the third corner, what could be more natural for him than-to play end on the football team? He was used in several of the garaes, and will be counted on by Rockne next fall. The subject of his studies at Notre Dame is law, in which course he is now a Junior. Another "nifty" end is "Si" Seyfrit—husky, handsome, jovial "Si." He is a source of unfailing good humor, even when an opposing end is trying in divers ways to blacken his eyes, disrupt, his ribs, and place him on the permanent injured list. His philosophy seems to be that a smile is the best preparation for a forward-pass and a grin the best preventive of a long gain by the foe. In accordance with the ancient habit of Gold and Blue gridders, he is studying law. Cartier Field will be the scene of his athletic endeavors for two more years.' 
Good nature is also the prevailing mood of Eugene Oberst. This man is a worthy product 



Tsfie Nocre (bame Scholascie
 179 

of old, Kentucky, and his six feet of solidity and his kicking on the Varsity gridiron have has stopped many an ambitious fullback from recommended him as a man who can do great bumping through the Gold and Blue line. He things in football. is a guard in all that the name means at Notre Light but fast, and able to break through for Dame. Like his fellow humorist, "Si" Seyfrit, tackles and to throw back the opposing linesmen, Eugene is a sophomore in the College of Law ' Alexander J.,Colgan, of Berwin, Pennsylvania, and will grace the local chalklines for two more has by his football achievements added not a seasons. Notre Dame had a wealth of capable little to his track repute. With the courage to reserve guards. In addition to Oberst, there was range himself with the stalwart fullbacks of "Sarge" Owens, who was a principal in the this year, he took the ball down the field like a unbeatable Miles-Owens combination, of inter- veteran when he got the chance. Forrest Cotton, hall fame last year. Until his retirement early who "subbed" during the season, is pretty sure in the .season due to injuries he showed all the of a gold monogram on a blue sweater next year, punch, grit, and fight necessar)'- to make a great As a tackier he is "fast and certain and he takes linesman. He is a big muscular fellow, with a the bumps of the game in good part, always heart to match, and the student-body sincerely carrying his broad smile with him as he smashes hopes to see "Sarge" back next fall, ready to through the opposing wall. Finally, the tall don the moleskins and take his place among the and lanky Eugene Kennedy, who came to Notre wearers of the big N. D. „ Dame from Lafayette, Indiana, is a good and 
A good'student, always a gentleman, and a dependable center, at which position he promises true representative of Notre Dame on- the to distinguish himself in football quite as tho^ gridiron—^is what we must say of Percy Wilcox, roughly as he did last winter in basketball, halfback. His record since coming here in the —^ENGELS-FLANNERY. fall of last 5'-ear has been one of remarkable • "•• • consistency. He was a regular member of the A Glance at the N. D. Gridiron. Record. invincible Freshman squad of last year; he ' . is quite as regular as a- star student who re- The season of 1920 was Notre Dame's thirty­
/
ceives high grades in every subject in every second year in intercollegiate football, the quarter; and as a regular fellow he is esteemed sport having been initiated here in the spring second to none. We would have done with him of 1887, when the team of the University of briefly by making his middle name "Consist- Michigan came to Notre Dame, played an ency." It is the hope of ever^'-one that nothing exhibition game, drilled our men in the use of may interfere with his returning to Notre Dame the pigskin, and then took them on for a "prac­for the two remaining years allotted him. tice game." Michigan won the contest by a 
Quarterbacks seem to be versatile as a class, score of 8 to o. The last gridiron encounter There is Frank Thomas, for example, who is with the Wolverines"took place at Ann Arbor. not only very agile both physically and mentally in 1911, in which Notre Dame triumphed; 11 to 3. on the football field but is also able to run Since that first game .with Michigan Notre around with the elite on the basketball court. Dame has played 220 games on the gridiron. Again, there is Leslie Logan, of Fort Wayne,' of which she has won 168, lost 36, and tied 16. who feels equally at home on the gridiron, on In those contests she has crossed the"opponents'. the diamond, and between the basketball hoops, goal line for a total of 5,742 points, against a He was big-man on Brownson's champion total of 1,084 for the opposition. Within the basketball team of last year and may be such last twenty years Notre Dame has played 158 on the' Varsit}'^ five pf this season. In football games, won 129, lost 19, and tied 7; within the Leslie has shown exceptional form as a plunger, , last ten years she has played 78, won 67, lost a caUer of plays, and a passer. Leo.Mixon, 6, and tied 5. In the seven games played against all the way from Texas, the tall, lithe, Interhall the Army at West Point, the first of which was center of this year and last, has convinced Coach in 1913, Notre Dame has won 5 a;nd lost 2; Rockne that he is a man who deserves observa- in her 6 games against the University of Neb­tion. Daniel Culhane alsoj of Rochester, New raska she has won 3, lost 2, and tied i; in 11 York, does not need to emphasize.ahy longer the. games against Purdue .Idniversity she has won fact that h^e was the winner of the cross-country 6, lost 3,' and'tied 2; in 11 games with the chase last year, for his plunges, his speed University of Indiana she has won 6, lost 4, tied ^ 

i8o '^ e Noure Same Sieholascic 
i; in the 5 games with Northwestern Univer­
sit}'- she has won 3, lost i, and tied i; in her 
13 games with the Michigan Agricultural 
College she has won 11, and lost 2. 
The Notre Dame eleven of 1920 is the eleventh 
undefeated team to represent Notre Dame. 
Thus more than one-third of all the Notre 
Dame teams have left a record of no defeat. 
In i"903 and in 1899 the Gold and Blue was 
not scored upon. The record for high scoring 
was made in 1912, when Luke Kelley's aggre­
gation counted 389 points against its opponents 
and permitted them only 27 in return. 
Notre Dame's supremacy in Hoosier football 
has not been questioned for many years, the 
Gold and Blue having won the State champion­
ship fifteen times by directly defeating all con­
tenders for the title, such as Indiana, Purdue, 
and Wabash. In ten other years in which the 
schedules have not brought together the leading 
teams in decisive -contests the State champion­
ship has been awarded to Notre Dame by 
popular and press verdicts. 
The worst defeat suffered by the Gold' and 
Blue was at the hands of the University of 
Wisconsin in 1904, iii which the "Badgers" 
drubbed us 58 to o. Our hugest victory, con­
sidering merely the size of the score, was the 
142 to o against the team of the dear old Ameri­
can Medical College, of Chicago, in 1905. 
The South Bend High School had a place on 
the Notre Dame schedule in 1892, the fourth 
year of Notre Dame football, in which the 
"Highs" suffered defeat 56 to o. 
Notre Dame began to attract national 
attention in football about 1909, as the result 
of invasions of. the East, West, and. South; 
with resulting victories which added much to 
her gridiron history. "Red" Miller was the 
first to lead a great Notre Dame team into the 
Kast—against the University of Pittsburg, 
then the new giant of the Eastern gridirons. 
Notre Dame won that first foreign contest, 
6 to o.. Since then she has played fifteen games 
• in the East, in which she has won eleven times, played to a tie once, and suffered three defeats. Notre Dame's victims in the East include the Army on five occasions, Pittsburg on two, Penn State, Syracuse, Washington and Jefferson, and. Carlisle. , 
The record of the Gold and Blue in the West is even more remarkable. Twenty-one games with leading teams of the Missouri valley ha;ve resulted in 18 victorieSi one tie, and two defeats. 
Nebraska has furnished the only serious oppo­sition in that region. The Valley champions have been played on their own grounds for six consecutive years, in which Notre Dame has won three games and tied another. Creighton University, the University of South Dakota, Morningside College, the Haskell Indians, and the Christian Brothers' College, in St. Louis, have yielded in turn to Notre Dame. In the South the Gold and Blue twice tamed the Texas "Longhorns," after the latter had reigned supreme for many years in Southern football. The Rice Institute also succumbed on two occasions. 
These are a few of the facts in the Notre Dame football history upon which she bases her claim to consistent supremacy in Western football. If there be in the West another universit)'- or college with a record which excels or equals this one, we should be humbly inter­ested in knowing of it.—E. M. STARRETT! 
Our Football Freshmen. 
It is the lot of all Freshmen to smile, despite "the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune" as wielded upon them by ruthless upperclass­men,. and surely none have smiled more truly than the men who composed this year the Freshmen football eleven at Notre Dame, who day after day withstood the murderous on­slaughts of the Varsity while that powerful machine was making ready for the games which achieved for it the name of being the best grid­iron aggregation of 1920. When that title was won it was not to the Freshmen that the glory came; yet they had no small part in the win­ning, and they were gladdened to know that they had helped to beat the Army, to beat Nebraska, to beat Indiana, and the others. 
A number of the Varsity men have now completed their allotted years of college foot­ball. Their places must be fiUed next season, and from the Freshmen will come most of the men who must sustain Notre Dame's football record. From among the men who trounced Culver 13 to 7 and the Fort Wayne Friars 18 to 7 will come the new heroes of Cartier Field. Perhaps the most promising of them at present is one Lieb, fullback, who was chiefly respon­sible for the Culver triumph and who made his way through the Varsity line as few enemy backs of the season did. He is a four-letter man and was captain-elect of this year at St. 

Thomas College, Minnesota. According to Coach Rockne, who knows, "he has more drive than an}'' man since the days of Eichenlaub." Another star under the wing of Coach Frank Miles last season was Joe Bergman, "Dutch III." of the famous family of Peru, Indiana. Joe is a left half-back. His 75-yard run did much to win the contest with the Friars, who were captained by "Cy" Degree, former Notre Dame star, and who count several other players about as good as Degree. 
And then there is McGivney, quarterback, a passer and a field general extraordinary; Maher, right-half, a clever open-field runner; Reese, quarterback, who came from Chicago "U" with a reputation; the ends, Shaugnessy, Mayl, and Cameron; the tackles. Murphy,, Ftynn, and Du Jardin; the guards, Hogan, Berberich, and Hieb; the centers, Reagan and Bolowski, and Alfred Arthur and Kelley. Flynn is almost certain Varsity material for 1921. Bolowski; "clever on defense, should figure in several line-ups; and Berberich, of South Dakota, also looks especialty good. 
The Freshmen, under Coach Miles, have all been hard and faithful players, and Notre Dame needs not fear that the loss of a number of this year's stars will prevent her hsLYing another great team in 1921. The Freashmen of this year, ' in short, promise that they will "carry on" in way worthy of their illustrious predecessors.—^H. W. FLANNERY, '23. 
Interhall Season, 1920. 

W  L  T  
Brownson  5  0  ,  0  1.00 0  
Corlay  3  0  0  1.00 0  
Badin  2  2  0  .500  
Carroll  2  2  0  .500  
Sorin  I  2  I  •333  
Off-Campus  0  5  I  .  ;00 0  
Walsh  0  2  0  .00 0  

Interhall football at Notre Dame came up for the season of 1920 like "Jack" Dempsey at Toledo and went down like "Charlie" Chaplin under a barrage of custard pies. If the analogy be further permitted, the ingredients of the fatal pies were too many outside games, frequent Avet grounds, and the distractions afforded by the Varsity schedule. The rules for next season will probably guard more carefully against the evil of too many outside games; wet grounds andinteirest in the Varsity are not so easily obviated. 
Seven hall teams competed this yeair. Ten 

games were actually played and four contests 
were forfeited. Of the fifteen outside contests, 
six games were won and one was tied. Brownson 
and Corby failed to get together for the dedding^ 
game of the season and are deadlocked for first 
place. 
Brownson had a well-rounded, heavy, fighting team which proved itself ready and able at all times to take the measure of its scheduled opponents. Weight and natural ability were supplemented by consistent coaching. Brownson was the "good big-man" of the league. Corby showed enough to win from the Off-Campus and the Carroll outfits, and would certainly have presented a stiff front to Brownson. The team, hea^^, powerful, well coached, seemed to be going at its best as the season ended. Corby was the "dark horse." Badin played an inter­esting game in every instance, and in a longer season might have come out on top.- It forfeited to Carroll, and lost to Brownson in the last minute "of an otherwise even game. 
Carroll Hall, entering the competitionr this year for the first time, was the "good little-man" of the league. A light line was the weak­ness of the team; yet in aggressiveness and courage the forward wall equalled that of any in the field. The squad was active, colorful, and always interesting. Sorin, with a better team than its final standing indicates, was handicapped by the usual diESculty of getting an interhall team from upperclassmen. Although coached by the best football brains, the squad had too many "one-game" men. Nevertheless, it furnished an interesting argument when it did muster enough men for a fight. The Off-Campus aggregation was treated roughly on its first entrance to Interhall compan}'- in recent years, and was handicapped by the natural disadvantages of "students residing off the campus." Neverthdess the "Dodgers" played more actual games than any other team, and improving gradually, they actually outplayed Sorin in the final game. The R. O: T. C. team as finally constituted was inferior to none," and it represented a real triumph for its coach and those "loyal Sox" of the outfit who weathered the storm of the; early season. 
Walsh was the hard-luck team of the League, . suffering injuries in the early part of tiie season which seriously affected the quality of the team. Although they lost both games played, the boys were not outdassed. They furnished one of , 

l8 2 '^ e Noore Same §ehoIascia 
the prettiest rallies of the season against Carroll, 
after seeming to be overwhelmed. 
In the arrangement of the Interhall all-star 
combinations which we present we have been 
guided by the selections of the coaches of the 
various squads. No attempt has been made to 
equalize the preferences of the various halls; 
but we have sought to recognize the efforts of 
the men whose work has merited most recogni­
tion. Outside games have not been included, 
and, all other things being equal, positions have 
been given to those who pla3'^ed the largest 
number of games. 
Se^'irit, of Badin, was a popular selection for 
end. He was a deadly tackier and a clever 
receiver of passes. His greatest ser^'ice to his 
team was a ps3'^chological one: with Seifert 
in the game, Badin fought for ever}'' point— 
and the personal element goes a long way in 
football. Walsh, of Carroll, repeated his claim 
of last season to the other end-position. He was 
a hard man to keep out of a play, he followed 
the ball closel}', and his handling of passes was 
perhaps the best. He has natural abilit)'-, and 
with good coaching he will make a strong bid 
for a'place on next year's Freshman eleven. 
Sanders, of Brownson, put up a defense ex­
celled by no other in the conference. On the 
offense he hit hard and fast and he was a difl5 cult 
man to stop. He is, in brief, a plugging linesman 
with a natural love for battle. At the other 
tackle, Hunsinger, of Badin, showed a different 
type of game. On the defense he was usuall}'­
on the bottom of his pla5'^s, and he entered the 
offense with a rare vitalit}'-. He was a good 
receiver of the pass and was perhaps the best 
punter in the. League, not infrequentl}'- going 
down under his own punts for tackles. 
Oberst, of Brownson, was\an .almost unan­
imous choice for guard. To look at this Kentucky giant is to know the reason. If his appearance or his voice did not stop the enem}'', . "Kentuck}'-" had a pair of willing arms that . craved action and strong legs which drove him through opposing lines. Cleary, of Sorin, was certainl}'^ the soul and most of the bodj'- of the Sorin line. He interpreted a play quickly, went through fast and low, and possibly stopped more pla5'-s back of the line than any other man. His general pla}': resembled closely the t5'^pe of the Varsity lineman. A fighting leader, and an old head in Interhall football, Cleary, is made the captain of the first team. Mixon, of Corby, reasserts his aU-hall right, to his position.- of 
last year at center. A good passer, he played the "loose-mentalty" game at pivot and was one of the chief secrets of Corby's success. With Seifert and Oberst, Mixon ''did time" on the Varsity throughout the year. 

Connell, of Carroll, has the distinction of being the onl}'' unanimous choice in the eleven. Coming to the "Preps" as an all-Wisconsin high-school back, this husky youngster tore his wa}?- through opposing lines with a swinging drive which old-timers at the school compare with that of Stanley Cofall, On the defense he covered both sides of the line; and when Connell tackled an opponent he was tackled. He is "football-minded" and excellent material for next year's Freshmen eleven. As the other half, Nicholson, of Badin, makes an ideal run­ing mate for Connell. He is a good line-plunger, a clever open-field runner, and a deadly tackier. Nicholson figured prominently in almost every play of his team. 
Wright, of Brownson, has been shifted from half to full because of his line-driving force and his superiority over any of the regular fullbacks. He never scintillated, but he played a stead;^ game which always brought good gains, passed well, kicked the only field-goal of the season, and presented a strong secondar}'- de­fense which excelled in breaking' up passes. 
Schmitt, of Brownson, appropriates the quar­terback place. Though &erj in ternper, he directed a varied attack which did much toward taking his team through the season without defeat. He was a consistent gainer through the line, and he starred especially in returning punts and in running back intercepted passes. 
With these reasons and with all deference to the dissenting opinions of others, we submit the following as our all-hall selections: 
Position 1st Team 
• L. B.—Walsh (Carroll) 
L. T.—Sanders (Brownson) 
L. G.—Cleary (C.) (Sorin) 
C. —Mixon (Corby) 
R. G.—Oberst (Brownson) 
R. T.—Hunsinger (Badin) 
R. E.—Seyfrit (Badin) 
Q. B.—Schmitt (Brownson) 
L. ,H.—Connel (Carroll)^ L.H.— Connel (Carroll) , 
R. H.—Nicholson (Badin) Fr B.—Wright (Brownson) 
Position , 2nd Team 
L. E.—Schmitt (Off-Campus) ^ . L. T.—Flinn (Corby) ... 
L. G.—Owens (Sorin) 

C. —Weischarr (OIT-Campus) 
R. G.—Maag (Sorin) - ,-. 
R. T.—Nadolney (Off-Campus) 
R. E.—AIcGarty (Corby) 
Q. B.—James (C) (Corby) 
L. H.—DriscoU (Walsh) 
R. H.—DeCorps (Carroll) 
F. B.—Joss (Walsh) 
Position jrd Team 
L. E.—Vignos (Brownson) 
L. T.—Hanrahan (Sorin) 
L. G;—Lando (Badin) 
C. —-Wrigley (Carroll) 
R. G.—Blum (Carroll) 
R. T.—Hart (Corby) 
R. E.—Keeney (Walsh) 
Q. B.—Walsh (C) (Off-Campus) 
L. H.—Mfirray (Off-Campus) 
R. H.—Whelan (Badin) 
F. B.—Riley (Brownson) 
—FRANK WAI.I.ACE, '23. 
«t • ^ 

A Sixty-Yard Run. 

It was the day of the great football classic between Notre Dame and the Army at West Point in 1919. While eleven blue-jersied war­riors fought valiantly for \dctory on the Plains overlooking the Hudson, fifteen hundred anxious students praj'-ed and cheered and waited as each play was flashed over a thousand miles of telegraph wire to the stands on Cartier field. Many, were the tense moments of suspense and breathless hushes when the little yellow slips-of paper were read intermittently, for this was indeed a battle of men. For three-quarters of the game Notre Dame wrestled fiercely with the "Army's Finest," in an effort to drive over the touchdown which "the bunch back there" were calling for, and for three quarters the Soldiers had thwarted them. All the excitement and tenseness of those actually watching this mighty struggle seemed to be transferred a hun­dredfold to that expectant crowd on Cartier field, just as the throaty "U. N. D. Rah! Rah!" at Notre Dame seemed to be heard by the battling team a thousand miles away. 
It was Notre Dame's ball in the middle of the field. There followed a long interval. What was the matter? Then the stands hushed of a sudden: a message was coming over the wires. Steadily the instrument clicked off the words from the Hudson. When it paused, the cheer­leader dashed to the center of the stands, and shouted in clear voice: "'Notre Dame makes sixty-yard run'—could not get player's name." 
When the frenzy of yells subsided another 

message had been received and the cheer­leader continued: "Last message incomplete— 'Mai Gooley makes sixty-yard run with water-bucket. Both teams take water.'"—^A.C.SHEA,'22 

The Spirit of the Team. 

Two seasons without a defeat or a tie score is no mean record for any football team. Seldom does a team of calibre accomplish such result if its opponents be of equal standing with itself. Most of the recognized top-notch aggregations of both the East and the West play more mediocre teams than good ones during the course of their schedules; and their hard games are so arranged that no two of them will faU within a period of two weeks. Thus a week of rest^ generally precedes a big game. Notre Dame, however, has not been particular as to the succession of formidable foes on her schedule after the first two games at the opening of the season. From the .first real game until the end of the season no mediocre elevens find place on the"Gold and Blue schedule, and there olcurs no rest-week to prepare the team for its next worthy opponent. 
Practically every team from husky Nebraska to the aggressive Michigan "Aggies" was pointed toward one game—^that with Notre Dame. These teams nursed along their best men, keeping them out of preceding games in order that they might be in their best form for . the battle with Notre Dame. Little did they care, it seems, for \dctor}'^ over other teams; a successful season meant above all a triumph over Notre Dame. Under such conditions has the Gold and Blue battled successfully on the gridiron for the last two years, and it is with not a little pardonable pride that the student-body and the alumni of the University look back on the glorious achievements of the teams of 1919 and 1920. 
It is a striking fact in oux victories over Nebraska, Valparaiso, West Point, and Indiana that each of these opponents scored first, and that then the Varsity struck its stride and tturned the tide to victory for itself. Throughout the season the morale of the team was 1007^, and a handicap score of ten points or so by the opposition only ser\'ed to arouse the fighting and winning spirit of Captain CoughHn's men. When on these occasions the team came from behind in the middle or last quarter pf the con­test it was surcharged with a driving force which 


'^ e Notre 5ame Seholascia 
was irresistible and which in everj'" instance scored a final ^'ictory. Such is the spirit that has enabled Notre Dame to achieve a record of two 3'-ears without a defeat and to la}'- good claim to the championship title in Western football.—E. B. DEGREE. 
Gridiron Genealogy. 
Somebod}'^ ought to write a liistor)'" of football and somebody else ought to lecture on the subject three times a week. :Think how popular a course it would be and how easj'" for the pro­fessor: no muddle-headed questions, no absences, no ponies, and no conditional'' exams!'' Really, football history is of just as much importance as the stor}'- of the ancient Patagonians or the kings of England. The writer could call his work "Kick Chronicles," or "Pigskin Papers" or, if he had studied in Germany, '' The Evolu­tion of the Cheerleader, or a Study in Insanit}?-." He could use the diction of ancient times and speak of Sir Knights charging down the lea; and, exercising his scientific genius, he might construct all sorts of h3'potheses to account for the fact that Notre Dame is not in the Conference. 
This brings us to what we wanted to say. This old school would stand out in football history as a Napoleonic dynasty that never saw Waterloo. Over in Australia they tell of Sir George Gipp who as governor of the Island rooted the Bushmen; but our own George smashed the'American Army! P. T. Barnum brought back Jumbo's scalp from India once; we have taken it from Indiana twice. Many outposts have been captured in battle, but nobod}?- except Notre Dame ever ran away with goal-posts. Philbrook and Sunnybrook had the.same effect on folks years ago, and since the passage of the Volstead Act, Brand}?- has in­toxicated thousands. There is nothing that figures in \actor>'- like a Wjnn, and the last but not least, the only King EJnute we recognize in this Republic lives in South.Bend, Indiana. We could continue indefinitely, but paper is scarce. Anj^how, we do not wish to conve}'' the impression that we are as impartial as Walter Camp. , 
Football is not scholarship, but neither is war. Hindenburg has no more concern with the culture of the mind than Eichenlaub. But the ungentle art of transporting the'pigskin has meant a great deal to the lads at Notre Dame,. 

It has told folks about the place and eliminated a big supply of supercilious eyebrow-raising Avhen we told them where our degrees were going to come from. T\Tien the great Doctor Green became a Catholic man}^ "noble" scientists forgot him; the Orestes Brownson who lies buried under our chapel has been consistently ignored; Stoddard and Stace and Gregori have been overlooked by the American intel­lectuals: but the common people in whom we trust have learned all about Notre Dame from the score-board. The)?- can't be told that there is no such place when they have seen the Gold and Blue on many a field. Sooner or later they will discover—are discovering—the other sides of the genius of Notre Dame, and this school will inherit the dignity for which it has labored so long. 
There! We have drawn one moral from our history. It wasn't done intentionally but we'll leave it. When we chuckle over the team that did big things this year, let us remember the great and goodly men of the past: Sammon and Dorais, Edwards and Fitzgerald, Farle}'­and Hamilton, and Pliska and Elward and Miller and a hundred more—men, all of them, who put their best into the game and established a tradition which we must work our heads off to live up to. When Coughlin and Barry and Smith and the rest of those who take sheepskins with them next June leave the field for history we can only say with the poet that they go with a glorious company; that they can wrap the drapery of their blankets about them and lie down to pleasant dreams. As for us, we're not going to lie down at all: we're going to give nine 'rahs for everybody. 
To the Team. 
. J. A. FOGARTY, '22. 
You swamped Kazoo and cnxshed Purdue, And Valpo was a dream; You walked straight through Nebraska's crew-You fighting N. D. "Team. 
You cleared the sod of Armj'^'s squad. The Hoosiers were your test; You onward trod with conquering rod And quelled"* Northwestern's best; 
O Gold and Blue, your worth shows true. You stood the test and won; W|'re proud of you, of Rockne too, As4 ^ve" lau4 you every: one.^ 

^e Houve- 5ame S"cholascia 



]|otpe]|)aiT)eJdbolastic 
DISCE-QUASl-SnA\PCR-VICTURUS--VlV£-QU'\SI-CRAS-i^\ORn\'RVS 
Entered as Second-Class Mail Mailer. 
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME. 

VOL. LIV. DECEMBER ii, 1920. NO. II. 
Board of Editors. 

ALFRED N . SLAGGERT, *2I M . JOSEPH TIERNEY, '21 
WALTER M. O'KEEFB, '21 EMMETT SWEENEY, '21 
MORRIS STARRETT,'21 EDWIN W. MURPHY,'23 
HENRY STEVENSON '21 VINCENT ENGELS, '23 
EDWARD B. DEGREE, '23 J. W. HOGAN, C. S:C., '22 
LEO R. WARD, C. S. C,'23 FRANK WALLACE, '23 
R M. MuRCH, C. S. C,'23 H. W. FLANNERY, '23 
CHARLES P. MOONEY, '22 

With Coach Rockne again in charge of athletics at Notre Dame, the football prospects for 1921 is by no means a gloomy one. The 
^ , team of next fall should be 

The Prospect for n ui + + + +1, 
^ , well able to step to the 
i.N exx J. ear* , t j-i 1 r i. 1 

pace set by the undefeated elevens of this year and last. If, as we all hope, it can acquit itself as the third successive "clean-slate" team, it will bring to Notre Dame and to itself still more recognition and honor. This year we lose Gipp, but we still have Mohardt; we lose Barr}'-, but we still have Danny Coughlin and Walsh; we lose Brand}^ but we still have Grant and Thomas; we lose "Maurie" Smith, but we still have Ed Degree and Doole}'-; we lose Dave Ha3'^es, but save Carberry and Prokup; we lose Captain J'rank Coughlin, but Hector Gar^'-ey, who tord open the opposition so con­sistently last season, will be with us. Back, and better than ever, ^^dll be: Eddie Anderson and "Rog" Kiley, "Iron-Man" Shaw and "Hunk" Anderson, "Ojay" Larson and Harr}'-Mehre, "Chet" Grant and Frank Thom.as, "Chet" Wynne, with Paul Castnef and Bob Phelan, and "Johnnie" Mohardt, with Earl Walsh and Dan Coughlin., 0 Man, what an aggregation! But they are not aU. Supporting these and fighting for their places wiU be: Oberst, Kean, and Cotton; the star Freshmen, Leib and Reese, and a host of others. Only the pessimist can have misgivings. A defeat— if it should- come—would only make us fight the harder. And the Notre Dame fighting spirit is not easily beaten, as. the Indiana game of this year clearly demonstrated. Onward then. Team of '21, to a year typical of Notre Damet Onward to another year of victories.—j. T. D. 
It is by struggle that living things grow strong-Centuries ago men battled with the elements 
and  the beasts  of  the jungle,  and  thereby  
acquired  great  physical  
"They Who Ma ke  strength.  Great  nations  
the Team."  have  developed  their  
ascendency  only  b y  

struggle. Great men gather strength out of contest with powerful adversaries. The great football team is no exception to this rale of life: it is made mainly by the opposition offered it by gridiron antagonists. In football practice this antagonism must be furnished by men whose chance to win places on the representative team is slender but whose services are absolutely indispensable to the making of a team that can win. Were it not for the efforts engendered by the strenuous competition for places there could be no successful football season. Hence a great meed of credit is due to the men of the "second string," who day after day go through the long gruelling drills and furnish gratis the opposition so essential to the development of a strong first eleven.' In a very literal sense, it is they who make the team.—^E. P. S. 
It is a pity that at the close of an otherwise faultless football season on Cartier Field it seems necessary to say a word of the "grand­
stand heroes." Despite all the Kill Them Off. efforts that have' been made 
to eliminate the species, it must be admitted that .a few specimens of the pest still survave—and a few of this kind is a whole multitude. One still hears a few "bim­bos" shouting, "kill him," "break that guy's neck," and other well-timed exhortations to the team, which are sheer insult to the men who have made for themselves such an enviable name for clean sportsmanship. The conduct of our cheering section is largely responsible for the impression which visiting schools and the public receive' of Notre Dame, and hence all. 
*'orrandstand heroes'' should be annihilated rather than allowed to disgrace the school. If these noisy "rough-necks" who are. able to distin­guish themselves by nothing better than bar­barism could only be put into the gridiron battle 

'Sfie Horre 5ame S'cholascic , 
for about three minutes—^but this t5'^pe of "sport" never gets an);- closer to a football game than the last seat in the bleachers. We are proud to sa}- at least, that there are at Notre Dame only a few siir^dvors of this pestif­erous breed. If 3'ou beHeve in true sportsman­ship, help to kill these things off as quickl}'- as possible b}'^ feeding' them an abundance of discouragement.—A. j . c. 
Football is perhaps, next to baseball, the most popular athletic pastime in the world. It is not, however, as we are apt to think, an 
altogether modern game. Football of Old. It is, in fact, a very ancient 

form of exercise and amuse­ment. The Indians of North America and the aborigines of man}'' of the Pacific Islands plaj'ed a game essentiall}'" the same as our modern one, and it is not at all improbable that football in some form was in vogue in the ancient dB.js when all Europe was in barbarism. The Greeks, it seems, taught a sort of football to the Romans and the Romans in turn through their soldiers to the Britons and other races of the North. In the Middle Ages football was plajj-ed in the British Isles by whole communities, who "without an\'- ver}?; definite goal kicked the ball back and forth along the rural highway or the city street. The Virginia colonists brought the sport to America in 1630. Since that time the game has grown graduaU}'- into its present developed form, and has become like several other,forms of. athletic corrfpetition, a highly specialized'activity in college life.—B. S. 
It was obser\-ed by more than one football scribe in the season that Notre-Dame had two teams: one composed' of George Gipp and the 
other, consisting of his 

•"The Third Team." ten colleagues on the 
gridiron. This was by no, means the.whole truth: Notre Dame had three: teams. Two of them the critics obserxT^ed correctly; but the third they entirely- over­looked, and'naturally, because the}'" never saw it in action: This third team is made up of the second-line men, _ that; aggregation of , very exceptional players "who failed to get advertise­miient, not-because they, lacked "distinction but because.there were,at,Notre Dame a sufficient nuniber of still greater adejpts in the manipula­tion of the pigskin. ] These :Rese:ryes wore out, the energy of Purdue, and j then turned, them 
over to the Varsity in order that the score board might be filled up more quickly. The}'- played the Valparaiso eleven to a standstill, and then allowed Gipp and his brethren to demonstrate that the Gold and Blue has on its football team better track men than Har^'^ard. These are but a few of their feats. If the whole Varsity eleven had been annihilated, Notre Dame would still have won the majority of her con­tests. Indeed, if the fighting Reser\'es had received the undivided attention of the '' wizard coach," they might have made the defeatless record that was actually achieved by the regular aces.—F. J. H. 
If 5''ou look over the Notre Dame schedule 

of the season just finished you will find that 
the Varsity has the.habit of scoring a number 
of points corresponding ex-

Observe the Dates, actly to the date of the 
month on which the game is played. At Lincoln on October the 16th Notre Dame secured sixteen points. In the game with Indiana on November the 13th the Gold and Blue got the unlucky number of points, but it was sufficient to win the game. On Thanksgiving day, November the 25th, the second-string counted twenty-five points against the Michigan 
Aggies.'' The big games. of next .year should be scheduled for the end of the month, as no team has been able to run up a high score against the Gold and Blue.—h. A. W. 
Next week the Notre Dame men will scatter to all corners of the coiintry to enjoy the Christ­mas holidays with the folks at home. Eager lips will speak to willing ears Add Your.City of the glories of the school, to the List, of the prowess of the football 
teanij^of the religious atrnos­phere which pervades every part of the institu­tion and which inspires a loyalty much deeper than mere school spirit. In recent years the _ students of a few of the larger cities have made their home-going the occasion of a social affair for Notre Dame students, alumiii, and friends. According to the plans already laid, this most praiseworthy custdin will be greatly extended this Christmas. Notre Dame celebrations are to be held in Chicago, 'Rochester, Cleveland, Louisville, Indianapolis, Pittsburg, Akron, To­ledo, and Wheeling. The idea of= a Notre Dame celebration in the home-town at some time with­in -the holidays is most "commendable. If 

^ e Nocre 6ame Scholascic? 
you think that Notre Dame represents some­thing somewhat different from what other schools stand for; if you consider the University the proper sort of institution for the education of Catholic boys; if you are proud of your connection with Notre Dame—^let the world know it. You can do this in a measure at least by seeing that your city is added to the list of those which have a Notre Dame celebration at Christmas time.—:P. w. 
The glory of Notre Dame on the gridiron has 
been celebrated by every newspaper and critic 
of the country. The players of Notre Dame's 
invincible eleven have found their 

The Heroes, pictures over columns of com­
ment on their work. But we have heard nothing of the men who "did not make the team"—or rather of the men who did make the' team. Bruised and battered, these men lined up day after day against the regulars, took their punishment unflinchingly, and- in the end were doomed to the obscurity of the sidelines. These fellows are, in our estimation, the real heroes—^heroes because they were able to work so well without reward, heroes because they are strangely happy in their disappointment, heroes because they did not complain when other men took the places they coveted, heroes because they gave their best that Notre Dame might triumph over all. 
—^w. A. c. 

The Students Activities Committee at the University was born just one year ago. Fostered by the cooperation of a very considerate Faculty 
Council and of an 

Support the S. A. "C. appreciative student 
body, it has developed into an efi&cient agent for the common welfare' of all in the school. It.has tided itself very successfully over the teething period and is now able to work on solid food. It has already within its one year done numerous things of consequence. It arranged a fitting reception for the football heroes on their return from. West Point; it cooperated very effectively with Cheer-leader Slaggert in the celebrations on_ the occasions.of th^ Purdue and the North­western • games; by its effort the quarterly examinations were' advanced a week in order that the students might have the' ordeal.off their minds for the trip;;to Chicago; except for the managemeiit of the Committee the round­
trip'to Chicago could not have been made for. the ordinaj}'- one-way fare; it arranged for the numerous reservations for students at the theatres and for other kinds of entertainment in Chicago; it succeeded in retrieving the good will of the Indiana Electric Company after it had been seriously shaken by the inadvertent misconduct of some of the students on' the evening of the Purdue rally; it has helped in numerous ways to secure the good will of numerous' other concerns in the cily; it has effectively forbidden strangers from profiteering among the students in the name of remote "worthy causes" and has licensed Notre Dame men to put before the student body things of interest and value to the men of Notre Dame— in shorty it has effectively and • consistently consulted the interests of the student body, whom it • represents. The Committee wishes hereby to exp'ress to the Faculty Council, and to the students its genuine gratitude, for their confidence and support, and to say that it is anxious to be of much further' and greater ser\aee. We shall be glad to do anything and everything that may merit in the.future the same cooperation we have received during,the past three months.' To any member of the University who will subniit to us his complaints, suggestions, or what not, we promise our best sersdce. At any rate feed your infant on con­tinued cooperation; keep "knocking" and islan­der from its diet, and watch it grow. -By all means be with the Committee. Buy nothing, 
for example, on the Notre Dame campus unless the solicitor presents his authorization, card from the S. A. C. This is for your protection; 
—CHAIRMAN, S. A. =C-

Notre Dame students of former years who. remember the distance between South Bend:and the University will be interested in these para­graphs from an editorial which appeared in the South Bend News-Times on Sunday, November the 2Sth, 1920: 
Knitting South. Bend and Notre.Dame together, which has been going on for some time, andseemingly consummated by the dinner given the Notre Dame football team by the business and professional men of' the city under the auspices of the University Club ' Tuesday, night, bodes'well for. both ;the city and the University.' It beats all—^the superior magic that there is to a footbaU team, -over the departments of book learning, quizzes and lectures, in oiu: modern educa­tional institutions, but better that to. fire the public interest than to have nothing. Notre Dame has a football team/ indeed,, to be proud of, but it is because 

i88 '^ e Noure 5ame Seholascic? 
the team is emblematic of the school and of the spirit 
of the school demonstrated in the team that South 
Bend does well to express its pride in looth. 
. . . The Universitj'^ is one of the landmarks of 
this vicinitj'-. It stands among the great institutions 
of learning of the countrj"^. Its influence is bound to be 
Avholesome. Quite as was said by one of the speakers 
at the dinner, Ave will perhaps never know the influence 
that it wields over a considerable portion of our popula­
tion, not alone in a religious sense, but in the makings 
of good citizens. Its influence in that section of the 
city, for instance, from whence so-called radicalism 
might be expected to proceed, has no doubt had a 
very quieting effect throughout the recent months of 
unrest. 
Any school that sends its students out into the world 
trained for progressivism and imbued with a regard 
for our institutions and methods of government figures 
in the salvation of the nation. 
Besides, the more university training we have among 
the general run of people, the better. Every graduate 
becomes more or less- of an uplifting influence among 
those with whom he comes in contact. Say what you 
please, with all our snobbery, and bowing and scraping 
at the feet of wealth, the American people admire 
brains—the trained mind. Notre Dame shoiUd accord­
inglj- be encouraged, and as far as possible patronized, 
not alone at athletic events, such as football, but in the 
class rooms. In fact, we would put our emphasis on 
the class rooms. Football is all right in a waj'. The 
good football player soon learns how to use his head 
and think quickly, to decide in a second what to do, 
and how to do it, which is good mental training, but 
in the battle of life this training, with the class room 
also at its back has an even greater advantage. 
Let us regard Notre Dame then as one of our in­stitutions of learning; permit her to put us on the educational map as a city where higher education floturishes, as well as where plows, and automobiles, and watches, and sewing machines—and municipal administrative blunders—are made. The University Club performed a splendid service by arranging that dinner. "The city did splendidly by way of response. It coxUd scarcely' have been improved upon and we are certain that both Notre Dame and South Bend appreciate it. It is "our university" more now— in a social sense, a cooperative sense, and a community sense.—^An editorial in the South Bend News-Times, Sunday, November 28, 1920. 


South Bend's Tribute tothe Team. 
From the rousing Notre Dame March which opened the program to the, lusty "U. N. D." led by Cheer-leader Slaggert at the close, the banquet tendered by the University Club of SouthBend to the "Wonder-Bleven of the West" was, without its equal in the annals of good fellowship in South'Bend. Four hiindred prom­inent business'men chose this riieans of express­ing their sentiments to the team and the coaches who had brought them "over the top." Those who have followed South Bend-Notre Dame social affairs for a period- of years were un­animous in acclaiming this function the peer of them all. Due to excellent committee manage­ment, the banquet was, in the parlance of the epicure, "jDcrfect from soup to nuts". In addi­tion to the Notre Dame squad and numerous members of the Faculty, Coach Grandsen and his embryonic stars from the local High School were guests of the Club. 

The magnificent Menu for the banquet, "honoring the 1920 Notre Dame football team and their coaches—given under the auspices of the Universit}'- Club of South Bend," pre­sented the following as foreword "To Our Guests": 
"You have toyed with Kalamazoo,' played with State Normal, and foiled mighty Nebraska. You have vanquished Valparaiso, crushed the ainbitious Army,, and overwhelmed Purdue. You have again humbled Indiana and punished Northwestern. We know what you will do to the Aggies. 
"When we could, we have been present to cheer in person your success. When we could not, we have hung on the ticker and boosted you by mental wireless. Tonight we gather to express, in a feeble way, the gratitude South Bend feels for the glory 3'-ou have brought to this city. 
"We do this because, in a closer sense than ever before, Notre Dame's team is South Bend's team. When you shine we bask in the glory; you fight, we support. If you should lose—the powers forbid—we will grieve. You are ours . and we are completely yours .'"^ 
"As for Rockne and Halas, what more can 

- be said? Your glory is their.own; ^'^our victory, 
-their reward; your exaltation, their compensa­tion. College generations rasiy come and go and city populations change, but so long as blood runs red and warm in the veins of youth and football is played on college field, their names and yours will endure." 
Following the invocation by Rev. Matthew Walsh, C. S.C, and.the address of welcome by Mr. J. E. Neff, of the University Club, Judge 
G. A. Farabaugh, as toastmaster, introduced Frank Coughlin, *' the greatest. captain of the 
„greatest of great teams," who in turn presented the other members of the team. Every player, from the veterans Brandy, Barry^ and Hayes, who are completing their last year of eligibility, to the third-string substitutes "who only stand 

'^ e Noure Same Seholascic? 
and wait," was given a rousing salute by the gathering.. There were at intervals repeated calls for Gipp, but on account of illness he was unable to be present. 
Mr. R. M. Hutchinson in his'' Tribute to Coach Rockne" proclaimed the Notre Dame mentor the mail who has brought together Notre Dame and South Bend more closely than ever before. In closing his address he presented the coach with a South Bend watch in behalf of the Club. In his address, "Ties that Bind," Mr. Frank B-Hering ('98), a former football star of Notre Dame, now one of South Bend's most promi­nent citizens, payed superlative tribute to Rockne, Halas, and the team. He spoke par­ticularly of the spirit fostered by' American universities, which prepared our college men to lead the greatest arm)'" in the world's history. When he referred to Notre Dame's war record— "Every monogram man under arms," he elicited the. greatest cheer of the evening: 
Rev. Dr. James A. Burns, C. S. C, President of the University, himself a Notre Dame athlete in his days as student, receivedprolonged applause when he declared that the University wishes to work hand in hand with South Bend for mutual advancement. To Coach Rockne he referred as a marked leader of men, both on the athletic field and elsewhere. Among others called upon for remarks were Father Matthew Walsh, and Walter Halas, assistant-coach. 
The banqueters were most agreeably surprised by a telegram from Rev. John Cavanaugh, 
C. S. C, former president of the University, and by another from the Notre Dame Club of Syracuse. One of the finest tributes of the occasion to the prowess of the football team was that of "Bob" Peck, football coach at the Culver Military . Academy, who has been acclaimed the All-Time All-American ~^center, from the University of Pittsburgh. Indicative of the originality and enthusiasm of the whole event was the extra edition of the News-Times, proclaiming the "Rockmen" as the only logical selection for the All-American team. Mr. South Bend^and Mademoiselle Notre Dame were forever joined in wedlock by "His Grace of Michigan Street, 'Mike' Calnon." Musical selections by Misses Wing and Oaks, of Chicago, interspersed the program. To those privileged to attend the banquet it will live long as a worthy tribute to the men who have added so much glory-to the athletic traditions of Notre Dame. 
, —yr. M. O'K. 
Washington Hall Events. 

The DeMille quartet of male singers furnished a very pleasing evening of song in ^\^ashington Hall on Wednesday, the ist of December. The members of the Glee Club were out in force, taking notes and accumulating atmosphere for their own purposes. 
Mr. Edwin M. WTiitney, of Boston, dramatic reader, achieved a triumph in his presentation of George Cohan's "On the Square," or "Hit the , Trail Holhda)-," in Washington Plall on Saturday evening of December 4th. The reader displayed very exceptional histrionic ability in his simulation of the characters and voices of the numerous cast through four acts. Attractions of the quality of this one by Mr. Whitney would quickly assure the cheerful attendance of aU students at the events in Washington Hall. No other entertainer of the year has elicited from the student-body so many expressions of appreciation. 
Dr. Ernest C. Partridge, of Oberlin College, for twenty years president of a college in Armenia, addressed the students in Washington Hall in the afternoon of December loth on behalf of the American Committee for Near-East Relief. Pie sketched the religious ^nd political differences between the Turks and their Armenian subjects, and described the methods employed in the last massacre and deportation. He stated that there are in Armenia more than 100,000 orphans and 150,000 girl slaves in most urgent need of our help. He spoke of course from first-hand knowledge of conditions existing there, obtained while he was a* member of the first American relief expedition. . He asked aid for the sufferers on the grounds of common-humanity, of their patriotism during the war, and their heroic devotion to the Christian re-Hgion, which latter is the chief cause?_of the persecution they suffer. f ~ 
GRIFFITH'S" WAY.DOWN EAST." A most delightful three hours were spent by the students and faculty of the University last Saturday morning in witnessing Mr. D. W. Griffith's "wonderful screen production of "Way Down East." In as much as all had looked forward "with keen anticipation to, a promised visit of the great director himself, real disap­

'^ e Nocre c&ame Seholascie 
pointment was felt when it was announced that 
business duties had made it impossible for Mr. 
Griffith to be with the students when his pla}'^ 
Avas presented. "Wa}'^ Down East" is without, 
doubt the most notable histrionic effort shown 
in Washington Hall since the production of 
Mr. Griffith's masterpiece, "The Birth of a 
Nation," some two 5'^ears ago. Both of these 
great plays have been presented as compliments 
to the University. Mr. Hector Fuller, a former 
war correspondent, in a few words before the 
plajj- conve3^ed to the audience the message 
of compliment from Mr. Griffith. 
The screen version of the present ston,'-hj Elaine Parker is. in substance essentialh^ the same as that of the -plsij produced twent}?- A'^ears ago on the regular stage. The theme of the piece is as old as man. The play presents the trials of a j'-oung and all too trusting country girl, who is betraj'^ed by one of the cit5'-'s rakes, and her ultimate success, in the face of seemingly insurmountable opposition, in finding hap­piness among the simple country folk of a remote comer of New England. It is just the kind of stoTv that keeps the handkerchiefs at the alert position. The accumulating traged)'', however, is ver}'- artfully relieved by just the right amount of the lighter side of life. It is this blending of pathos with relief comedy that constitutes one of the chief charms of this classic production. 
Every r61e of the cast, even to the least of the minor parts, is interpreted by a star actor. The leading characters, David Bartlett and Anna Moore, the victim of Lennox Sanderson's mock marriage, are most effectively done by Richard Barthelmess and Lillian Gish. By right does the part of David, the swain, of broad vision, belong to Barthelmess. The adaptation of the r61e of the unprotesting Anna to the personality of Miss Gish could not be more perfect if the piece had been originaU}'^ written for her. The control of the tears evinced by the little actress touches the heartstrings of the spectators throughout the play. The other notable impersonators in the cast are Kate Bruce, Burr Mcintosh, Mary Hay, Creighton Hale, Viva Ogden, and Lowell Sherman. The excellent special orchestra of twenty pieces which accompanies the picture contributes very much toward the full effectiveness of the entertain­ment. 
The play as presented in the picture is highly artistic and true to life. In a few instances, 
however, it may be thought that the great producer in an effort to heighten the realism of his creation has slightly overdone his effects. The scene in which Lennox Sanderson and Anna Moore are upon the couch in the bridal suite and the last ten seconds of that scene might very well be eliminated, without in aii}'' way injuring the effectiveness of the part. These two episodes are altogether unneces­sary to the progress of. the stor^'- and are un­profitabh'' suggestive to the spectator. Aside from these slight excesses, Mr. Griffith's "Way Down East" is a faultless chef d'cpuvre of the moving-picture art.—c. P. MOONEY. 
Personals. 

—Paul Thompson, student at Notre Dame in 1916-17, spent a few minutes at the University, recently. 
—^Jerry Powers, whom a sheepskin made a Ph. B. in Commerce last year, is now sticking his head into law books at the University of Wisconsin. 
—Prof. W. A. Johns, former head of the Agricultural Department at Notre Dame,isnow vice-president of New Evansville College, at Evansville, Indiana. His numerous friends at Notre Dame rejoice in his promotion. 
—^The recent observance of Holy Name Sunday in Grand Rapids, Michigan, Avas featured by an address by Mr. William Hake, '92 years of age and the oldest Hoty Name man in Grand Rapids. The venerable lecturer is well known at Notre Dame, where all of his eight' sons have been educated. 
—From Elgin, Illinois, comes the news of the marriages of two Kotre Dame.alumni, William 
E. Pierce (LL. B., '06) and Edward J. McOsker (Ph. B., '17). Mr. Pierce, who'is a prominent lodgeman, politician, and former city attorney, was married to Miss Nell Agnes Wallace, of Elgin. Mrs. McOsker was iorme'rly Miss Ethel Lucille Pritchard, also of Elgin. 
—The echoes of Notre Dame's successful football season are beginning to resound. From Bemidji, Minnesota, comes a congratula­tory letter from John„C. Burke (C. E., '14) in which he'says: "Kindly put me down for a year's subscription to the SCHOLASTIC^ and send if possible all the back numbers of this year. By aU means do not forget: the footbaU num­ber..---I note today thfit George Gipp has prob­ably passed his crisis. I am not acquainted A^dth Gipp, but I am sure for him and sincerely hope he wins his greatest battle." John is now chief engineer in a large project of Beltrami County, Minnesota. 
—We read in the Buffalo Enquirer that the 
•chief factor in the defeat of Buffalo's mighty eleven by Jim Thorpe's Canton team was the playing of Al Feeney, former Notre Dame center. "Al" decided the contest by lifting a soggy, heavy oval over the bar frorh the 20-yard line. 
—Charles W. Bachman, star fullback of 
Notre Dame in recent ^years, now football 
coach at the Kansas State Agricultural College, 
says in a letter to one of the editors: "It may 
interest 3'-ou to know that the entire football 
world is watching with anxiety the daily reports 
concerning the illness of George Gipp. Everj'-one 
is hoping for his speedy recovery. Please extend 
to him my earnest wishes for an early and 
complete,return to health." 
—^Fred A. Hayner, football critic on the Chicago Daily News writes to the editors of the SCHOLASTIC : " In a talk with a football man coming to New York from-New Haven, a man who apparently had played'football and studied it for years, he said: 'I saw the Notre Dame-West Point game. I had heard much about Gipp, but a study of the team impressed me as to the wonderful work of the backs as a group. The smoothness which they displayed in attack far.outshone any individual effort in the game. The backfield had been wonderfully coached and worked like clock action. That, to my mind', v/as the real strength of the team.'" 
—^Harry Miilford Jewett (C. E., '90), a classmate of the President of the University some thirty years ago writes from Detroit: "I see there are three of us here who played on the original football team at Notre Dame— Hepburn, who used to play end, Sawkins, who played guard, 'and myself. . Every once in a while I meet our old center, 'Dutch' Fehr. I received a letter from him the other day from Louisville. Of course, if you moderns get gay down there at Notre Dame I shall write to "Dutch," get the three of us, and we shall challenge the whole team of 1920—^just to show that we are not "selling-platers," and that while we are a little bald we still have the old . Notre Dame punch." 
—^With raw material and the. fighting spirit of the student-body of Gonzaga College, Coach 
Charles E. Dorais has this year put Spokane 
on the football map. In former years Gonzaga 
for lack of the best coaching has not competed 
very successfully with the teams of the North­
west Conference. During this last season, 
however. Coach Dorais has demonstrated the 
possibility of developing a winning team by 
professional training. He has been engaged 
for another year at Gonzaga at an increased 
salary. He did good work here at Notre Dame 
last year as assistant-coach in football and as 
coach in basketball and baseball. Notre Dame ' 
claims him also as one of her law graduates 
of 1914 and as one of her greatest football stars. 
All of his friends here rejoice at his success in 
his new position and hope that good fortune 
may favor him increasingjly in the coming year. .. 
—^Stuart H. Carroll, former Notre Dame journalist, is for the time being at work on an Indiana farm journal published in South Bend. Until recently he was Sunday editor of the South Bend News-Times. During the war he managed the circulation of the Stars and Stripes, official organ of the A. E- F. Leo Berner, well known to older graduates, is special-assignment man on the News-Times. Up to last July he held down the desk of city editor in the da3rtime. Among others in the Notre Dame representation on the local newspaper are Freeman Scully, sporting editor, Frank Farrington, Sunday-feature writer, and Dillon J. Patterson, court reporter. Miss Loretto Lorden-oh the Sunday staff-,of t\i& News-Times is a summer school student. 
—Mr. Albert J. Galen (LL. B.," '96), Associate-Justice of the Supreme Court of Montana, in a letter acknowledging the congratulations sent by the President of the University, on the occasion of the judge's recent election, writes: "Whatever I have accomplished or" may yet accomplish in life is due chiefly to the interest which was taken in ine during the years attended Notre Dame. If dear old Col. Hoynes is still alive, I wish ^'•ou would convey to him my best wishes and advise him of my. election. I should be very happy to have my boy at Notre Dame, and have been at work in an endeavor to bring it about. After the first of the year many grave and important duties and responsibilities will devolve upon me, and. I only hope and pray that with my limited capacity I may be able-to function satisfac-^ torily:"—E.'P. ST^EENBY.­

 '^ e Noure ^ame Scholagcie 
Mass by Bishop Legrand, C. S. C. Local News. 
Bishop Legrand, of the Bengal Missions, India, pontificated at the Solemn Mass in the University church on the feast of the Immacu­late Conception. Owing to the effects of an attack of bronchitis, contracted in Canada last month, Bishop Legrand was unable to address the students. This was ver);- regrettable, as the venerable missionary'- appreciates highly the assistance he receives from the students of Notre Dame, whose increasing interest in the apostolic work of the Church affords him and 
the other missionaries of Holy Cross in Bengal the greatest encouragement and support. Bishop Legrand assisted at the convention of the Students' Foreign Mission Crusade held in Washington last August. In his discourse to the student delegates at the Catholic University the Bishop detailed the many advantages of the Crusade accruing not only to the Foreign Missions but to the students themselves and to the Church in the United States. The Bishop feels he has every reason to hope that the fullest measure of success will be realized by the Notre Dame Units. He will watch with keenest interest the growth of the foreign mission spirit at the University. The Bishop, accompanied by Father Timothy J. Crowley, 
C. S. C , ('02), came to this country last sum­mer to attend ^the general chapter of the Con­gregation of Holy Cross. He expects to sail for Bengal early in the new year. 

—The New England Club will go home for the holida3'-s in big-league st3de. Private cars will convey the "Yanks" from South Bend to Boston, where the compan}!- will scatter in groups to their respective home-towns. 
—Rev. L. V.Broughall, C.S. C, of the English Department, spoke to the members of the Writers' Club at its semi-monthly meeting last Frida3'- night. Charles Molz read a short-story of merit, and a free-for-all followed. 
—The annual banquet of the New England Club was held in the Kable Dining Hall in South Bend on the Saturda3'- evening following Thanksgi\'ing. Notre Dame's representation from the "Far East" numbers nearl3'- one hundred men. 
—The erection of a rink on the Badin campus presages an actii'^e hockey season at Notre Dame. Father Cunningham will push his squad with, characteristic vigor. Requests for games have already been received from Michigan University and the Michigan School of Mines. 
—^The numerous IFriday night meetings on the campus were held last week. The Pla3'-ers' Club and the Kentuck3'-Club met in the Library, the Surve3'-ors in Science Hall, the Pre-Medics and the Forum in the Main Building, and the semi-finals for the Breen medal in oratory were held in the Library. 
—^The Ohio Cltib at a recent meeting formed a bowling league, which includes teams repre­senting Toledo, Cincinnati, Akron, Lima, Da3'-­ton. Canton, Youngstown, and'the "Big Six" from smaller towns. The members from Cleve­land, Akron, and Toledo will entertain the Varsity basketball squad on its trip through Ohio during the holidays.. . 
—^A number of the students in engineering attended the regular monthly meeting of the St. Joseph's Valley Chapter American Associa­tion of Engineers held in the museum room of the 
Y. M. C. A. building on Monday evening of December 6th. At the end of the cafeteria din­ner Mr. J. L. Stevens discussed the subject "Licensing Engineers in Indiana," and Mr. Dalton Moomaw talked on the "Commis­sion-Manager. Form of Government." These matters will be presented to the General Assem­bly early in January. For the convenience of the. students, the time of,the regular meeting 

'^ e Noure 6ame§choIa8Cie 
•Ofthe Chapter has been changed from the even­ing of the second Monday to the evening of the second Wednesda}'' of-each month. 
—Keen anxiety is being felt by everyone at Notre Dame concerning the illness of George Gipp, a senior in law, now known throughout the countr}' as one of the most notable gridiron figures in 1920. A few days after his last game he suffered a severe attack of tonsilitis which has developed into septic pneumonia. As this issue goes to press, his condition remains, as it has been for several days, ver)!- critical. It is the ardent pra3''er of his host of friends and admirers that he may quickly pass the danger in which he is at present. 
—^The more important election returns are now at last coming through. We learn that John F. Shea, president of the class of '06, has been elected to the Senate in his home State of Massachusetts. Besides leading the class of '06, John played Varsity • baseball, wrote the words of the song which we sing, standing and with bared head, (his brother, the Rev. Michael Shea, '04, wrote the music), proposed and largely put through the first Dome, Incidentally, there are not two more loyal alumni ^anywhere than John and Father "Mike" Shea, and Notre Dame is proud and happy in their success. 
—The Rochester Club met recently to discuss affairs regarding their holidays at home. Roches­ter is one of the cities of the country over which Notre Dame has established a mandate. Last year the Rochester men held a Christ­mas banquet at which they entertained the bishop of the diocese. The gathering together of students within the holidays for a social evening with the.local alumni of the University is a most commendable movement, and it might well be imitated in any city in which there is a sufficient number of Notre Dame students and alumni. The alumni will be more eager for news of.the old school this year than ever before. 
—The first meeting of the Round Table came to order at. the call of Daniel Coughlin, who demonstrated his ability to do other things besides running ninety yards through the Michigan "Aggies." Vincent Bngels read an interesting paper on "Why I became a Jour­nalist." Dr. John M. Cooney, professor of journalism, lauded the spirit shown by the scribes and predicted an. early return of the journalism students to the prominent part in school acti\dties which they played before the war. Rev. Paul Foik, librarian of the University, Morris Starrett, assistant-manager of athletics, and others gave informal talks. 
—^The Players' Club was reorganized recently and plans have been developed for the pro­duction of a stage play or a musical review, to be written and produced by local talent. At the meeting a committee was appointed to wait upon the President of the University con­cerning the project. The following members were elected as officers: John Dempsey, presi­dent; Alexander J. Colgan, secretary; Arthur Shea, publicity agent; and William Lawless, business 'manager. 
—^About fifty members of the journalism and commerce courses met last Tuesday evening under the direction of Father Lahey and or­ganized the Notre Dame Advertising Club. The organization has for its purpose to keep in touch with the developments in advertising in all fields, through cooperative study.' The new club will work in harmony with the Palette Club of the commercial-art department, for the furtherance of interest in the advertising field. The officers of the Advertising Club are: Father Lahey, general director, Harold McKee, presi­dent; James SkuUy, vice-president; Gerald Ashe, secretary; George Slaine, treasurer; John Higgins aud Walter Stuhldreher, consultors. 
—^The first quarterly issue of the Notre Dame Law Reporter for the present year seems to indicate that this periodical, the publication of which began last year, is destined to be of great interest and value to the students and alumni of the Hoynes College of Law. The current issue contains, in addition to the reports the cases of the last quarter of last year from the Junior Moot Court,' the Court of Appeals, and the Supreme Court of Notre Dame, an instructive article contributed by Colonel William Hoynes, entitled "The Law and Lawyers," a number of letters from men of the class of '20 and news items concerning other members of that class., An excellent idea is the alumni directory of the College of Law,. begun in this number. All in all,, the faculty and the students of law are to be complimented on the quality of the Reporter. 
—^The Notre Dame Club of Cleveland will hold its first formal ball in Cleveland in the hall of the Gilmour Council of the Knights of Colum­bus, 9104 Euclid Avenue, on Monday evening 

 '^ e Noure 5ame Schoiasde? 
of Januar)'-3rd, 1921. It is the intention of the club to have every Notre Dame man within a reasonable distance of Cleveland present that evening. Tickets for the dance may be secured from Pierre Champion, of Walsh Hall, or by addressing in Cleveland any one of the following committee: Ray S. Miller, Leader News Build-^ ing; James P. De\att,Harcourt Drive; Bernard 
C. McGarrj^ in care of The City Architect's office, Cit}'^ Hall. 
-Fo r the information of any students who mav be interested, the American Chamber of Commerce in France requests this announce­
ment concerning the "Toleration" Prize Essay. jMr. Henr}^ Peartree, one of the founders and a former president of the American Chamber of Commerce in France, donated some time ago to the Chamber the sum of 10,000 francs as a prize fund, to be distributed in equal shares this 3^ear and next for the best essa)- or treatise on the subject of Toleration, economic, political, or rehgious. Thepapers, written in the English orthfe French languages, should be addressed to the American Chamber of Commerce, in France, 32 Rue Taitbout, Paris—for next year's prize by September ist, 1921., and for that •of the i'-ear after not later than March ist, 1922, in packages marked: "Toleration Prize Essay." Each paper should bear the name and address of the author. The length of the essay or treatise should not exceed 10,000 words^ but there is no obHgation on the' writers ito attain this limit, The treatises may deal with the subject from everjr point of \dew or with any part, phase, or 
, aspect of ,it.-, 

—At the last'fortnightly meeting ot the St. Thomas Aquinas Society Mr. James Hogan, 
C: S. C, read a very careful and interesting paper on "Philosophy and Progress." Mr. Hogan defined philosophy as a synthesis of knowledge, which derives its dignity from being . able to satisfy "the natural craving of the human raipd for truth. He contrasted the broad outlook of real philosophy with the very narrow, scope of sdence. He denied that progress consists, as so-man)' think, in a rejection of old truths. and asserted; that it is • rather the gradual ex­pansion of the .fundamental, principles which 
^govern life. He next outlined the new movement  of old principles to new problems. In the  discussion which followed Father Cornelius  Hagerty made the points that science is not  opposed fundamentally to philosophy and that  much of the support of Catholic philosophic  teaching in recent times has come from scientists  outside the Church. Father Cunningham ob­ ser^'-ed that the World War was obviously a  result of false philosophy and that the best  thinkers of the day are returning to the logic, 
;in-;:philosophical;methods sponsored by Leo 
'Xin-ahd  deydopeid  and 
:,sketched:iitscey(^^^^  social 
Hfein:bdng;a~sanie  a^nd p 

 Psychology, and metaphysics of the-schoolmen, ^^'^'^' ^^, ^^^^^^'^^^ will receive-m the years to ^^^^ the serious attention which they deser^^e. 
 —^Mr. Howard W. Matheson, vice-president  of the Canadian Electro Products Company,  of Canada, has on behalf of that company  presented to the University a research fellow­ ship, worth five hundred dollars for the rest of  the year, to defray the expenses of a graduate  student who is to pursue investigation in acety­ lene derivatives. The main offices of this  company are in Montreal and the principal  plants at Shawingan Falls, in the province of  Quebec. -The Canadian Electro is unique in  being the one organization exclusively engaged  in the manufacture of acetylene compounds,  During the late war it produced by catalytic  process more than fift}'- tons of glacial acetic  acid a week. Since the signing of the armistice  its efforts have been devoted to the manu­ facture of various forms-of acet3'-lene products  for commercial purpose. It is interesting to  know that a number of patents secured or ap­ plied for by the Notre Dame research labora­ tories have been accepted on option by this 
 company.  —Ninety Notre Dame men were initiated  into the Notre Dame Council of the Knights  of. Columbus last Sunday.afternoon at the W. 
 O. W; Hall in South Bend. The local Council  conferred the first degree on Friday evening  and the second on Sunday; 'the third degree,  which immediately followed the second, was  in charge of District Deputy Timothy P.  Galvin ('17), and his staff-from Valparaiso.  Supreme Director John F, Martin, of Green 
 Bay, Wisconsin, was the speaker at the banqiiet  held in the Oliver Hotel after the conferring of  the degrees. Mr., Martin recounted some of  his interesting experiences on the recent pil­ grimage of the Knights of Columbus to the  battlefields' of France, to the Vatican, and to  terror-stricken Irdand. He was a member of 


"Sfi© Nocre ©ame Schdascie 
15'S 

the committee that presented the statue of Lafayette to France and the marshal's baton to General Foch. In the absence of Father Thomas Burke, due to illness, Grand Knight Ctisick, of the Notre Dame Council, presided as toastmaster. He introduced Mr. Galvin, who gave a delightful talk on the spirit of Notre Dame. Father George Finnigan, C. S. C., told of the high regard in which the Knights of Columbus were held by the A. K. F. Walter O'Keefe gave a very entertaining monologue, entitled "The Fourth Hawaiian"; Miss Jose­phine Decker, accompanied by Miss Helen Guilfoyle rendered several songs which were highly appreciated, and Miss Helen Miller entertained with a novel Oriental dance. Midnight brought to an end a very interesting day for the Knights both new and old. 
F. A. WALIvACE. 
Press Gomments on N. D. Football. 

Once upon a time years ago there was a King Knute who asked the ocean waves kindly to back up, and they didn't. Right now up in 'Northern Indiana there is another King Knute who is too busy developing a championship football team to command any wavelets to back water, but all Notre Dame Univei^sity will tell you that anything he says goes, and they better not let him too near the ocean, if they want it stayed put. Of course this modern King Knute wears no crown and he goes about the land under the name of Mr. Knute K. Rockne, but he has it on Knute No. i, for he is one of the best football coaches in the country today. Saturday., afternoon at Washington Park Indiana University meets Notre Dame University. It will not only be a good battle between two elevens on the iield, but it will be a battle on the sidelines between Jumbo Stiehm, the Indiana coach, and Knute Rockne, the Notre Dame athletic director* The Stiehm sj'stem is one of the few that has checked,up victory over a Rockne team in the last few j^ears, and if there is any one in the country to stop Rock this season, it looks as if it would have to be Stiehm. At least it will be a good game.—=^(Thomas A. Hendricks, in the Indianapolis News.) 
* -* * 

Notre Dame played but three Conference games. Indiana, Purdue and Northwestern were snowed under. Rockne had a great outfit" at the Catholic school. There are-those who believe Notre Dame's claim to Western championship the best. At any rate, Notre Dame has a perfect right to claim a tie with Ohio State on her remarkable showing in the East and at home. ... ­The first-string" tackle jobs go to McGuire of Chicago and Captain Coughlin of-Notre Dame. . . . Maurice Smith of Notre Dame stands head and'shoulders, over the'general run for the season. He wins easily. .' . . Brandy of Notre Dame runs a team with greater dispatch and speed than any other Western quarter. 
. . Fourteen halfbacks were considered for. All­All-Western berths. George Gipp of Notre Dame heads the list. He excels as a forward-passer and kicker, and is a dashing open-field runner of superior type. The Notre Dame star is touted for an AU-American berth. He looks to be entitled to it. His punting, and drop-kicking are superior to that of any other man's in the West, and that is saying. a lot.—(By ^Mark Kelly, in the Chicago Herald and Examiner, Decem­ber 5, 1920, on the All-Western selections.) 
* 

Out in the West football fans think their best player of the year is George Gipp, of Notre Dame, and in the East the general opinion is that few backs have been developed in recent years who. had anything on him. * for all-around ability. Gipp is one: of the cleverest players ever turned out in the Mid-West at throwiiig the pass, and when it is considered that the passing game was practically invented at Notre Dame, to rate him as the peer of all passers "in that section is speaking pretty good of Gipp.—(From the Havana Post,, November 22, 1920.) 
* . -' . 

,That Notre Dame University had the greatest football team in the West this season and a machine that could have vanquished Ohio State, winner of .the Big Ten Conference championship, is the opinion^of Elmer McDevitt, Duluth attorney, who has just re­turned to his local law practice after spending the fall season at Evanston, Illinois, where he was head coach of the Northwestern eleven. . . . "The Notre Dame team, which I look upon as the* champions of the West, had one of the best-balanced elevens I have seen in recent years, every man being especially power­ful in his particular position. Their offense was truly ' great, yet simple. The team had wonderful driving power."—(From the Duluth Herald, November,30, 
1920.) 
* * , -, 

If one were to select an all-star array from this combination he should undoubtedly begin with George Gipp, of Notre Dame, the best back in the country, a back who can punt, drop kick, pass, break a line, or run an end There has been a big scarcity this season of triple-threat backs of the Mahan type; not Mahans, for they are always scarce, but ^merely Mahan types. The triple-threater can kick, forward pass and lead the rushing game. Gipp was far and away the best, not very far from being another Mahan. . .' . Gipp alone was wortli two or three specialists for Notre Dame, for when he dropped back the defence had no idea whether he intended to pass, kick, slide off tackle, or run an end. And he could do all four jobs better, than any of the specialists could do one. —(Grantland Rice, in the New York Tribune, Decem­
ber 2.) 
* * 

. The other tackle position is given to Captain Frank Coughlin of Notre, Dame, who .piloted his eleven through the season without a defeat.. He knows the position.thoroughly and at Notre Dame is rated with the best linesmen-in the. history of the institution. The Notre Dame leader was one of the main factors in the victory of his team over the Army. His sterling playing brought forth, praise from Eastern critics, some of whom, place him on a par with Keck, the great ^ 


'^e Noure 5ameSeholagcic? 
Princeton tackle. Coughlin's long experience—this 
being his third year on the Notre Dame eleven—is one 
of his best assets. He knows how to do the right thing 
with the least effort, and like Voss mixed in every play. 
In"the Northwestern game it was a frequent occurrence 
to see him run behind his own line and tackle a Purple 
plaj'^er who had crossed the scrimmage line, on cut-
back-in plays. He was also down the field under 
punts and Avas a natural leader. 
George Gipp. the great Notre Dame halfback is 
placed at right half-back. This plaj'er is probably the 
greatest back developed at Notre Dame in years, and 
ranks well with the leading ball carriers ever turned 
out in the section. There is little about football Avhich 
this player cannot do and do well. . . . Gipp would 
be delegated to do the punting and field goal kicking. 
He also would be used to run or forward-pass from 
punt formation.—(By Walter Eckersall, in the Chicago 
Tribune, December 5, 1920.) 
* 
Four 5'^ears ago George Gipp entered Notre Dame 
University unheralded and unhonored. He had never 
plaj'ed a football game in his life. Coach Rockne 
discovered that the green kid had a penchant for kick­
ing and gave him a uniform. Today Gipp is the hero 
of the Hoosier school and considered one of the greatest 
backfield stars in moleskins. .. . In 1919 he was 
hailed as one of the greatest throwers of the forward 
pass, but this season he has added punting and .end­
running to his repertoire of accomplishments. During 
the Armj-game Gipp's punts averaged 60 yards, 
although for two quarters he was kicking against the 
wind. He has always possessed a penchant for doing 
the unexpected. The battle-cry of opposing elevens 
this 3'ear has been "Get Gipp." But they never do. 
That also is a part of-his gridiron smartness. No 
matter how hard opponents play to get him, the Notre 
Dame Tarsan manages to shine with greater luster on 
everj'^ appearance.—(By Dean Snyder, in the Buffalo 
Siivday Times, November 21, 1920.) 
* * 
Numerous stories concerning the eligibilitj' of George 
Gipp, Notre Dame's halfback, have been circulated 
without.'.faimess, according to the Indianapolis News. 
Notre Dame, like all other large universities, has a 
three-year varsity limitation rule, and the Notre Dame 
faculty and athletic authorities enforce this rule through­
out. This is George Gipp's third and last j^ear.—(From 
The Torch, Valparaiso University, November 19.) 
-* * 

"The forward pass will never be worth developing," comments an Eastern scribe. No, not when the talent at hand is made up of timber jacks and deck hands, but*no other play of the game can produce the thrills and gain thie ground of a fbm'ard pass worked with the proper precision. It is the most dangerous angle of-the spoilt. The East was very slow in taking up this modernized version of football. It was not until the light" Notre Dame eleven ran the'Army into a trance some years ago,that this style was taken seriously along the Atlantic seaboard. Dorais, or some such coye, pegged so many passes on the Army that the spectators were dizzy following the ball. The score was about 35 too,when the sailing ended. The Army coaches were "not blockheads, however, "and whaled 
the wadding out of the Navy in the annual game that season, and they did it by picking up the plays that had been worked on them by this same speedy Notre Dame array. Since that timcthe East has recognized in the forward pass the widest possible range of play and has lost little time in working the overhead attack. —(The Mem^phis News Scimilar.) 
* * *
Our Army eleven, mighty throughout the season 

and for three-quarters of its game against Notre Dame, 
ran into a cul-de-sac or a chevaux-de-jrise or perhaps an 
abballoir, during the last period, and Notre Dame today 
is hailed as second to none.—(By George Currie, 
Brookljm Eagle, November i.) ^' 
* * 
Just once this year I have seen the quick kick utilized 

in a major game. Notre Dame flashed it against the 
Army on last Saturday and gained more ground with 
it than with any other kick it made. The soldiers, 
sucked in close by a line-attack, were taken completely 
by surprise, and the ball rolled deep into West Point 
territory. With a clever punter to do the booting, there 
is no reason whj' this manoeuver should not come into 
greater use. It is sound, if used wisely, and has a 
demoralizing effect.—(New York Evening Sun, Novem­
ber 13, 1920.) ' * 
* * 

Back in that winter of 1S42 when Father Sorin and his little band of followers, just landed from France, made their perilous journey through the wilderness over snow and ice, and in the heart of an unbroken forest began work on a small log-cabin between two beautiful little lakes in St. Joseph County, Indiana, they certainly started something. No doubt even in the bleakness of their first Hoosier winter the little log-cabin school became in their visions the great iVistitution that Notre Dame University is today. 
However, could these educational pioneers have dropped in casually at Carrier field last Saturday afternoon and heard the wild war-whoops that greeted the' whirlwind Notre Dame attack that swept the Purdue defense off the field, even with all their con­structive imagination, so characteristically French, they scarcely would have recognized these athletic phenomena as among the things they, had started. In fact, they probably would have thought that the Indians they had come to civilize had won after all._ For wilder than any Pottawotamie yell that ever ripped the early Hoosier atmosphere was the Notre Dame victorj--cry that'rose and swelled from 12,000 spectators when George Gipp running from piint formation raced eighty yards through the whole Purdue team for the touchdown that marked the high spot of a game full of high spots. 
Notre Dame beat Purdue 28-0, and the score might just as well have been 50-6 had Knute K. Rockne so willed and kept his firsj string men on the job. This is no slam at Purdue—it simply means that the 1920 Notre Dame team is one of the greatest football aggregations in America today. Following the West Point gaine a week ago. Eastern critics, usually so conservative,, shouted it from their headlines, and not a few frankly said that in, their opinion-Notre Dame was one touchdown better than any team in the country. ' ­

^e Notre 5ame Schdasder 
_ This Notre Dame team is wonderful. It has weight, speed, variety of attack, initiative galore, and football genius. Just how much of this is Knute Rockne and how much is natural ability is hard to say, but the two have fused and welded into a whole that has made good the boast of the" Notre Dame song, "Old Notre Dame Will Win Over AH.". . . . There is no doubt that George Gipp is one of the greatest football players that ever came out of the West—or East, for that matter—^but Notre Dame is not a,one-man team by a whole lot. When Gipp gets away with his sensational runs he has the very able co-operation of the ten other men on the field. Without Gipp it still would be a great team.—(Thomas A. Hendricks, Indianapolis News, November 9.) 
* * 

The Boilermakers put up a great battle against the Irish, but "the greatest team in the country" was simply too good, and the Boilermakers bowed in defeat before the mighty Catholic aggregation. The game was exceptionally clean and good sportsmanship marked the contest throughout the entire afternoon. It is surely no disgrace to be beaten by such a wonderful aggregation.—(The Purdue Exponent.) 
* * 

Fighting to the last, the plucky Army eleven out­played but game, went down to defeat^here today before the fast, powerful eleven from the University of Notre Dame, of South. Bend, Indiana. The final score was Notre Dame, 27; Army 17. Although the Westerners trailed for three-quarters of the game, their powerful reserve told in the end and in the final period they put the quietus on the Army men. The game was witnessed by a crowd estimated at 10,000. The field was in good shape in spite of the recent rains. 
Notre Dame resorted to forward-passing frequently, Gipp and Kiley figuring in several long gains through this medium. • But the Westerners outrushed the Cadets in every quarter. Mohardt and Gipp bored through the Army line almost at will. Gipp proved a powerful runner, the like of whom has not been seen here since the days of Jim Thorpe, the old Carlisle player. He was' prominent in every advance of the visitors.—(From the Brooklyn Eagle, October 31.) 
* 
* * 

It was a football exhibition well worth going many miles to see. It was a hard contest, fought with vigor 
- and vim by both sides all the way, but it was also the greatest game, both for attack and defense, which has been seen in the East this season. The Army was beaten, but even in defeat it covered itself with glory. In the development of defense, in all-around effective­ness in both the old and the new football, in sheer brilliancy, the eleven from Indiana, with the scin­tillating Gipp always in the van, practically outclassed the Army. Notre Dame made twenty first-downs, as against only four of.the Army. We do not think that any team in this country could have won over the team from the West as it played here today. 
—(Daniel, in the New York //eraW.) 
* * 

It was home-coming day at Notre Dame and the' old grads came all the way-from Missoula, Montana, and Pittsburg for the big day, the biggest that South Bend has ever seen. The bunch included XouisSam­
mon, John Miller, Al Feeney, "Red" Miller, Ray 
Eichenlaub, and many other old football stars. Notre 
Dame certainly knows how to treat visitors. Friday-
night the student body threw a parade for Purdue, 
flocked into the'Oliver hotel and cheered every man 
on the Purdue team individually. Then they called 
for speeches. Cooley, the big Purdue guard, who, by, 
the way, played one peach of a game, won the oratorical 
honors with the following masterpiece, which met with 
100 per cent approval from both teams: "Fellows," 
he said, " I don't know which of us will win tomorrow, 
but this I do know: both of us are going to beat the 
life out of Indiana." Prolonged applause. 
Notre Dame's cheering was splendid. Al Slaggert, cheer-leader, was refreshingly short on acrobatics, • but long in getting the noise of the stands unified. Every Purdue player who left the game or was injured received a cheer. The singing was as good as any heard in the State this year.—("Mixed Up Pickups," Indian­apolis News, November 9.) 
** * 

. . . Notre Dame which swamped the- Army today at West Point could fairly smother either the Buckeyes or the Maroonsy-—(The Lincoln 5far.) 
* * 

Notre Dame, if it wins its remaining games—and_^ there is .every reason to believe it will—should be . rated oneof the strongest teams in the country. The decisive victory that Coach Rockne's team won over West Point, 27 to 17, stamps the aggregation as one of the greatest offensive and defensive powers, and half-back Gipp, of Notre Dame, as one of the best back-field players in the country.—(The Chicago ­Tribune.) -., * -' 
** * 

Knute-K. Rockne's Notre Dame eleven, undoubtedly one of the greatest if not the greatest football team in the country, buried the fighting Boilermakers Saturday afternoon on Cartier field, before a Homecoming crowd of 12,000 people, 28 to o. George Gipp, although he played but two quarters of the game, stood head and shoulders above any backfield man on the gridiron: As one of the spectators was heard to say, "it was worth the price of admission to see Gipp make that eighty-yard run."—:(By Robert McMahori, in the Indianapolis Star, November 8i) 
* * 

There are a number of great players on this year's Notre Dame eleven. Captain Coughlin, the tackle, is one of the best performers in the country, regardless of the'many plays sent at the tackles, some of which call for the tackle to be boxed, and others to knife 
-him" out. Coughlin geneirally manages to upset most plays sent to him. Besides Captain Coughlin in the line. Smith is probably the best guard in the West. He was a tower of strength a year ago and is playing better this season.—(Walter Eckersall, in the Chicago Tribune, November 28.) 
* 
* * 

They are saying this year that Notre Dame has two teams—George Gipp and ten other men. The lithe-limbed Hoosier halfback is the Goliath of a big, shifty, well-drilled and powerful eleven. If there is anything that Gipp' can't do on the football field it isn't dis­cernible to the naked eye. . gj.. If is his last year at 

^e Nocre Same ^cholascic 
Notre Dame and it might be added that the door to the All-American mythical eleven, of 1920 is standing wide open to the great Hoosier back.—(Dean Snyder, in the Toledo Times.) 
* 
* * 

But the Army Avas up against more than it could handle—possibly more than Harvard, Yale, Princeton, or Pitt could have handled—another, Penn State plus George Gipp. . . . George Gipp, of Notre Dame, a long-legged, spraddle-legged Kangaroo halfback, steps into the picture as the leading 1920 star. Gipp is the best back we have seen in a lohg time—another Eddie 
•IMahan and everj'- whit as good.—(Grantland Rice, in the New York Tribune.) * * 
While Penn State has the best record in its region 
and now looms up as the strongest Eastern team, the 
best of all the American college teams this year is 
Notre Dame. The Avriter's candid judgment is that 
Coach Rockne's Fighting Irish, playing on a dry field, 
can trim any other aggregation—East, West, South, 
or Ear West, by as much as two or three touchdowns. 
. . . Having seen Way (Penn State) when he was scin­
tillating at his verj'^ best, the writer considers Gipp a 
more versatile and, therefore, more valuable backfield 
performer than the Penn State dazzler. Gipp can do 
everj'thing that a high-class footballer is expected to 
do, and his equal is not in moleskins on any college 
eleven this year. Next to Heston, Michigan star of 
fifteen years ago, and Guy Chamberlain, who flashed 
so brilliantly for the Cornhuskers of 1914 and 1915, 
Gipp is the greatest backfield performer the West has 
developed in a long stretch of gridiron history.—(" Cy " 
Sherman, in the Lincoln Daily Star.) 
* * 

In the matter of coming from behind to win out in football, one of the hardest assignrnents in the Avorld of sports, the Notre Dame eleven seems to be in^a class bj'^ itself. In three of its seven contests with the Army, it has turned the trick. In 1917 the Westerners won" out late in the game. Last year with the score 9 to o against them, the Westerners came, back in the second lialf with a spirited rally and a brilliant, aerial attack and won out, 12 to 9. Last Sarurday the Cadets were leading up to the last period, when the Indiana team uncorked a hard-hitting- attack to win by 10 points. —(Grantland Rice, in the New York Tribune.) 
Only a game between Ohio State and Notre Dame -would convince the Hoosier following that Gipp and, his-band are,the best in the West. With no way ol 
• settling the- dispute about the relative ability of the teams, it is.a matter of opinion and the East favors Notre. Darnel—(Henry. Earrell, in the. South Bend 
•News-Times.) \ . ., . . , 
• "^ -'•'-.'• '--, -* * • .--" 

With the final swing - into the homestretch of -the football season, those who, have been watching the performances of the various football teams through : the .schedules have been^ tucking away back in their . memories the doings of certain players who,-will be 'trotted out later, on as members of the mythical eleven 
•whichis
 supposed to represent the ideal of the gridiron. 

•
 Qiiechap stood^qut in the. game in the'East yesterday ^ who looks like acertaint^- .^That is,George Gipp, whom 


we watched on the Plains at West Point running riot for Notre Dame against the ArmJ^ There were few of those who saw him as the Cadets were routed who did not agree that he is one of the most spectacular and startling players of the year. . . . That Notre Dame eleven looked about as good as anything that has been seen in the East this year and it seems a pity that it is not scheduled to meet Penn State or Harvard. . . . The team has everything necessary in its repertoire up to the minute and Saturday it lived up to the form it displayed when it came here first a few years ago and opened the eyes of the Easterners by a dazzling display of whizz-bang aerial tactics. . . . The name of Gipp may not. have a romantic sound to it, but its echo ought to be heard for many a day where deeds of the gridiron are recounted.—(Van Ness, in the New York Evening Telegram, November 7.) 


The Final Victory. 
NOTRE DAIVIE, 25; M. A. C, o. 
The Notre Dame football team of 1920 
completed on Thanksgiving Day at Lansing, 
Michigan, its list of nine \dctories for the season. 
This makes for Notre. Dame the second con­
secutive year without a defeat and the eleventh 
without a defeat since she first entered the 
intercollegiate sport in 1887. . The 25-to-o 
victory scored by Coach Rockne's men over the 
renovated team of the Michigan Agricultural 
College emphasizes again the real championship 
calibre of the Gold and Blue. Though lacking 
the services of its great star, George Gipp, the 
team performed most admirably, and for, 
nearly a half of the.game functioned perfectly 
with all second-string men in play. The com­
parative power of the winners is not adequately 
indicated by the score. A cold, drizzly day, a 
muddy field, and a wet ball hindered the usual 
sprint and dash features of the Gold and Blue 
attack and made the forward-pass precarious. 
The backfield combinations, however, were 
consistent in s,weeping gains through, around, 
and over the "Aggie" defenses. The line did 
its work magnificentl}'-, in the ,second half re­
peatedly smashiiig the. "Aggie" plays before 
they were fairly started. 
Danny Coughlih's ninety-five yard run on 
the first kick-off was the feature play of the contest. Mohardt's forward-passing showed where the key to the 1321 aerial attack is to be found. Castner plunged, for handsome gains every time he was permitted, and Barry's last-game dashes around the ends were a fitting climax to his'stellar career.. Of the linesmen Captain Coughlin was. easily the most brilliant. ..In the latter part of the third period he began 

'^e Hocve-Marine ScMasme
 199 
r 

his old role of breaking through and inhibiting - Dame's scoring would cease. Well into the 
the opponents' attacks before they had started second period the forwards of the opposition 
or breaking up their formation on its first held stubbornly, ~and the backs kicked out of ' 
move. Several times the Captain's aggressive- danger when they got the ball., Toward the end 
ness forced the "Aggies" to kick onthe second of the second period Coach Rockne sent in his ' 
down. "Buck "Shaw also had a hand in mussing regulars. Under the command of Brandy the ; 
up the Green attack and for the fifth time this Varsity machine got slowly but surely into 
year blocked a punt, preparatory to a Notre action and plowed its way irresistibly toward" 
Dame touchdown. Smith, Anderson, and Larson the "Aggies'" goal. On the third down, with 
in the center of the line deserve special mention, only three yards left, the whistle blew for 
Coach Rockne's men were the first on the the half, with the score at 6 for Notre Dame and 
field, and they entertained an interested crowd o for the "Aggies." / • 
with the usual preliminary'- signal drills, kicks, The Hdosiers got down to business promptly 
and passes. Everybody wanted to know which in the third period. Shaw's kick-off went out 
was Gipp and was disappointed when his ab- of bounds on the "Aggie" five-yard line,-and 
sence was announced. The green-clad "Aggie" on the second kick-off Eddie Anderson threw-
crew trotted in and began their warming-up Johnson for a two-yard loss as the latter caught 
manoeuvers. It was evident that they had a the ball. Captain Coughlin's crew presented a 
hea^'y line and plenty of "pep." Captain stone-wall defense, and the "Aggies" kicked. 
Coughlin won the toss and chose to defend the . Notre Daine failed to complete passes by Mo-
south goal. Rockne then detailed his second- hardt.' Castner punted and the '"'Aggies" 
string warriors to start the battle. Few specta- returned the compliment. After gaining twelve 
tors realized that the regulars were in reser\'-e yards on the exchange, Notre Dame started a 
and few believed it when told. , The first ball drive from her 35-yard line. Mohardt and' 
sailed high and lazily down the field and finally, Barry went around the flanks for twenty-
Danny Coughlin took it, standing on his own yard gains until the ball was on the opponents' 
five-yard line, with a horde of tacklers sweeping five-yard line. Here Castner on a fake off-
upon him. The "gang" bowled over the more tackle play plowed through center and scored 
dangerous ones, and Coughlin started his the second touchdown. Shaw, failed to make 
weaving sprint through and around the others, the goal. 
The fast interference swept to the right side as Shaw" kicked to Johnson, who ran the ball far as midfield, where Coughlin sprinted ahead back twenty yards but fumbled as he was of it, dodging and side-stepping the opposition, tackled. Brandy recovered it and speedily -and then was off on a bee-line for the "Aggie" the Notre Dame line.and backs drove, the goal, with the whole field after him, some Green's defense back to their, goal. The Far-­
in useless pursuit and others, for purposeful mers failed to stop Castner's plimge'for the V 
protection. He registered the touchdown with third touchdown. Again the kick for goal went 
time to spare. The "Aggie" crowd groaned, amiss. . , 
while a few scattered Notre Dame followers At this point .Phelan, Hayes, and several 
cheered and whooped wildly. "Coughlin failed otheir second-team men were returned to ithe 
to kick the goal. field. Notre Dame received the kick-off, but 
On the next kick-off Castner received the failed to gain appreciably. It was well .towards 
ball and ran it to his own thirty-five yard line,' the middle.of the fourth quarter, .after Schwei 
where the battle began in earnest. Walsh had • attempted a punt from-his own twenty-
featured in slashing off-tackle drives and Castner five yard mark, that the fourth touchdown 
in line-plunges. On the fourth play Coughlin resulted. On this play lyarsori, Coughlin, 
was thrown hard as he ripped through the center Anderson,, and Shaw all "broke through and 
of the line for a substantial gain; and sustained - rushed the kicker. Shaw blocked the ball, 
a shoulder injury which took him from the and Anderson-recovered.and carried it across 
game. Mohardt was substituted, but the the "Aggie" goal. .Brandy added with his toe 
attack could not get going fast enough for the the twenty-fifth point. For the remainder of 
end-runs of the Gary speed-boy. The "Aggie" the game the Varsity was content to hold things 
line," responding, to the cheers of the crowd, even. And thus ended the ninth and last battle 
held courageously, and it seemed'as if Notre of 1920, in which_tfie Rockne system triumphed 
200 


'^e Nocre (borne Schdascic 
over the Zuppke system, as exemplified by­"Potsy" Clark's men. I/ine-up and summarj'-. 
NOTRE DAME M . A. C. Hayes Left End Bassett A*6ss Left Tackle Bos Degree Left Guard Mattson Mehre ' Center Ball Dooley Right Guard Radwald Garvey Right Tackle Lefter Carberry Right End - Thompson Grant Quarterback • Springer Walsh Left Half-back Johnson Coughlin Right Half-back Noblett Castner Fullback Hammes 
Score by Periods: Notre Dame 6 o 12 7—25 Michigan Aggies 00 0 o— o 
Substitutions—Notre Dame: Brandy for Grant; Mohardt for Coughlin; - Barry for Walsh; Kiley for Hayes; E. Anderson for Carberry; Larson for Mehre; 
H. Anderson for Dooley; Shaw for Voss; Phelan for Castner. Michigan Aggies—^Anderson for Bos; Larson for Rawald; Schwei for Noblett. 
Notre Dame scoring—Touchdowns: Coughlin, Cast­ner 2, E. Anderson; Goal from touchdown, Castner. 0£5cialsrr-Referee, Gardner, Cornell; umpire, Lipske, Chicago; headlinesman. Samp, Wisconsin. Time of periods, 15 minutes. 


Safety Valve. 
. - THE 1920 ALL-ELEVEN. 
We have used more care and taken more time in the selection of this year's "Valve" team than ever before. This was due partly to the fact that we were campused 

.and were not compelled to go to town every day, and partly to the fact that we did not have to. worry about our classes, since we flunked in all of them. Some of the players when viewed as football stars are probably not entitled to the consideration we have given them, but they received Thanksgiving boxes from home and invited us to partake of them, and surely gratitude is a precept of the natural law. Besides, the good players that were left-off this team passed in all their classes, . and it stands to reason that a fellow who spends^so much time at his books can't excell in football. Many of them, too, were never inside of Hully and Mike's, . the home of the criss-cross play, where the prefect . comes in the front door and the student goes out the ^ back door. Apart from having chosen the men we like and the men who fed us, no favoritism has been shown, and the team stands on its own merits—though 
, many of the players are ladened with demerits. 
R. E,—Hamm:(D) . R. T.—Stone (B) ^ ., : 
R:G.—Gorilla (D) ; -'". •'.. 
} . .. C.^avage" (D) - .; .^ . ,. V ^ :' V :L.-G^-^urey (D) ' -', .' ; :r ;;L' T.—Steele (D) :/ . ,' '. 

* ; ;>.: - L. E.—Hunger (Br) . .: ' :i >^ ; li^ iV'^ R.H:B.—Pierce (Bd) : ." ^ 
"-- :V>L.H.;B.—Sharp (K). ^/: ' /^; ' : Q. B.-^Eoote (Libraiy) >^.; . '­
We have placed Hamm and Hunger at ends simply on account of one play which they have perfected and which never fails to gain ground. It is the old play of the left end skirting the right side of the line. Hamm starts down the field at full speed and the quarter­back having tucked the ball under Hunger's arm without the latter's observing it puts him on the trail of Hamm. No eleven players this season have been able to keep Hunger from getting Hamm, and for this reason many. touchdowns were made. As tackles, we have selected two of the hardest men at the Uni­versity, Stone and Steele, These men, though they do not play a shifting game, can be relied upon to stop any plays coming their way, and many a head has bumped into them only to be compelled to open up, 
instead of playing the line-plunging game. As guards, we have placed Gorilla and Furey on account of their agressiveness _and because of the terror they inspire in opposing players. When these two guards are linked with Savage, the pivotal man, they form a veritable trio of wild men Avho would scare most any-kind of opponents. We have chosen Foote as quarterback on account of his ability to punt and drop-kick. In so far as we know, no one in the country is able to kick like Foote. Should it seem desirable to use forward passes. Hand might easily be^substituted for Foote. Our two half-back.5 are Pierce and Sharp, and they have been put at this position because of their pene­trating power., Pierce can plunge through any kind of a player and Sharp has a cutting way-that gives him the edge on most other half-backs in the school. As sub­stitutes for these men we can use Ford and Carr of the Day Students, who have probably more speed than any students' at the University. 

We looked long for a fullback who would be worthy of the position and finally decided on Dashbach. Since we have no desire to see a man take a ball and dash back instead of forward, we conceived the idea of heading this man toward his own goal and giving him the ball. Of course the opposing players would see him, Dashbach, but what could they do? He would probably make many touchdowns for the team. 
We thought somewhat of using Barber of the Day students as an end, but he has a habit of clipping which-the referees do not like and the last man that played against him had a close shave. Mudd of the Day Students was also a strong contender for a place, but he is a dirty player and was barred for this reason. Although Bell of Walsh played excellent football all season, on account of his being a ringer we could not give him a berth on this eleven. ..Doll of Corby and Love of Brownson were also suggested to. us by friends, but both are so soft that we feared they might weaken the team. If any one is to be substituted in the line proba­bly Lawless would best take the place of Savage or Furey. Derrick of the Day -Students will be on the bench and^will probably be used, as he is a wonder at lifting an opposing player from his feet and dropping him softly out of the play. 
. -This is our selection and we make no apologies for it. -We wish to state however that the players who made this team are not to pay us in checks,'as we find great 
• V :J'y'^y-S^:i/- >:-:B,--Dash1jacii-(W)' 'x-'^-'r '':l, - >':>- ^^ trouble in cashing, them.. .:,.. ­




F 0 0 T B A L L R E l'.J E lV 0 [1, 1921 
·Contents 
The Varsity Squad The Schedule Coach Rockne Assistant Coach Halas Captain "Eddie" Anderson Review of the Games Varsity Gridiron men of 1921 The Reserves The Varsity in action 
· The Frosh Gridders Head Coach Holton Assistant Coach Hodler 
Interhall Football Brownson Interhall Champs The Cheer-Leaders 
Ideals 
The 1920 Chmi1ps Captains 1921-22 The Team and its fighting sp1nt Notre Dame on the gridiron 
Press Comment . The men we may thank J...awrance "Buck" Shaw 
Homecoming Student Manager Cheer· King Slaggert George Gipp .\Vest Point Our first Homecoming Stars of Yesterday Notre Dame's many victories­Between Halves Gridiron Geneaology 
-.. 
~ 
I. 
I I 
i 
F 0 0 T B-A L·L 1~ E l'1 E lV U 11' l!J41 

I 
. 
_I 


[? 0 0 T B A L L R E VIE 11' 0 F 1921 



F 0 0 T B A L L 1~ E 1' 1 E lV 0 F 1921 



A Record ThatSpeaks for Itself 
THE SCHEDULE 
Septerp.ber 24 · 
Notre Dame 58 Kalam·azoo 0 October 1 Notre Dame 57 Depauw 10 October 8 · Iowa· 10 Notre· Dame . 7 October 15 
Notre Dame 33 Purdue 0 · i October 22 
'! 
.! 
:! Notre Dame 7 Nebraska 0 
October 29 Notre Dame 28 Indiana 7 November 5 Notre Dame 28 Army 0 November 8 Notre Dame 48 Rutgers 0 ·November :12 
Notre Dame 42 Haskell 7 . I 'November 19 . !: Notre Dame 21 Marquette 7 
November 24. Notre Dame 48 lVlichigan Aggies 0 
1919 SCHEOULE 1920 SCHEDULE 
N.D. N. D; 
-14 Kalama~oo · 0 39 Kalamazoo 0 60 Mount. Union -0 41 Western State 0 14 Nebraska. 9 16 Nebraska 7 53 Western State ·g 28 Valparaiso '3 16 Indiana "U" · 3 ·27 Army 17 
r 
[i 12 West Point 9 28 Purdue 0 13 Michigan Aggies 0 13 Indiana 10 33 Purdue 6 33 Northwestern· '7 
III. ,-.-25 Michigan J\ggies 0· 
229 49.
11 
I! 
250 44
I'
I' 
!I 
I 
l· 
I! 0 0 T B A L L R E 1' IE HT 0 F 1921 
r 
I 
i 
i ! 
I 1 
f.­
.. 
~ 
I 
I 
I i 
t· 
i. 
I 
l 
l 
\ 
I 
r 
I
k.: 


F 0 0 T 13 A·L L REF IE H' 0 F 1921 
; 

7 
\\'ALTER HALAS 

ASSISTANT 
For two years \Valter Halas has done much to help "Rock" develop championshijJ football teams at Notre Dame. He came here from Dav­enport in 1920 to coach basketb3ll and baseball, but his experience with football has made him a valuable assistant to Rockne. He knows the game ·from goal to goal, has tl~e ability of show­ing p_layers how a thing ought to be done, and has no trouble deciphering strange plays..This la!:t .was put to good use when Mr. Halas made trips into enemy camps. When he returned and compared notes with Barry Holton, it was not 
COACH 
long until the Freshman team was making the Varsity battle for. every inch in scrimmage prac­. Lice. Last spring Mr. Halas could not devote much time to helping along the Spring practice, as he was a very busy man developing a baseball team. At present he may be found in the gym every afternoon picking material for a basketball team which he claims is going to be the best. ever atNotre Dame. In all forms of sport, Mr. Halas is an e·nthusiastic coach; his enthusiasm 
· is of the contagious kind, and that is why he can train successful teams. . 

THIS IS HOW THEY DID IT 

F 0 0 T B A L L R E l' IE 1¥ 0 F 1921 

As leader of the great team of 1921, Captain 
"Eddie" Anderson has earned every conceivable word of eulogy; he was the ideal leader-a real Notre Dame man in every sense of the -\vord. Possessed of tact, good sense and an inspiring spirit, Anderson led his mates through a season the results of which have set the football world agog with wonder~ That "Eddie" had a big job · on his himds when. he was elected to . the cap­taincy· goes without s~1ying for the records of those marvelous machines of 1912, '13, '19 and 
'20 were practically insurmountable. Despite the high precedent set by former leaders and their crews, Anderson displayed a brand of gridiron generalship that earned for him laudatory com­ment by the column from the pens of critics far and wide; a generalship that made him unani­mous choice for the All-State, All~Western ·and All-America honors-that placed him high in the esteem of the coaches, the faculty, the almm1i nnd the student body. 
l 

I l' 
I 
4 
i 
I 
I 
I. I I 
I 
~1~,. 


F 0 0 T B A I_J L R E l' IE rv 0 F 1921 
cA. Review of the ~ames 
WHAT THE MEN DID IN THE OPENER· 
NoTRE DAME 58;KALAMAzoo 0 
The valiant sons of Kalamazoo were the first visitors on the Notre Dame gridiron this fall and altho they put up a little fight the first part of the -game, it soon became the question as how high the score would be run. However, the smaller eleven fought a wonderful battle against· great odds and· tho outclassed in e~e:ry_ department, they managed to throw a scare mto Rockne's camp every now and then. · 
None of Notre Dame's strength could he shown in this game for on the most part the playing was extremely raggec~ b~t the~e '~ere many bricrht stars who shown for the first time
0 
in varsity competition. Among these were Lieb, Berrrman and Thomas. Numerous substitutions afTe~ted the score and the playing and if the big team were left in to finish the game, a different tale would be told. Touchdowns were made by \Vynne (2), Thomas (2), lVIohardt (2), Desch ·and Reass. Buck Shaw did his duty by kicking 7 rroals after touchdown· and Lieb complemented
0 . 
hy l. 
·-THE DEPAUW AFFAIR 

NoTRE DAME 57; DEfAUW 10 
_. When thi~ "1\tlystery eleven" came to Notre Dame, there certainly was quite a stir, for every­one knew that Walker was· out to beat Rockne and said Rockne was not to be beaten. Conse­quent! y the evening_ practices were more numer­ous and constant drilling put Notre Dame on the fighting edge. Then the information that they _were pointing for this game added zest to the occasion and those who saw the game had noth­
ing  but  pity for  the  highly  touted  ":Mystery  
eleven"  which  went  down  to  defeat  after  five  
minutes of playing.  

Their playing was of a very inferior brand 
and their plays showed more haste in prepara.­
tion than quality. After Notre Dame accumu­
lated a few touchdowns, Depauw assumed a. 
laissez faire attitude and never. actually threat­
ened the game. However, they corraled a touch­
down in the final quarter when Lauer made a 
pretty run after a blocked kick. Bloodgood 
made a field goal. also in this period from the 
t13 yard line. · 
· Shaw played his usually·con~ervative brilliant rrame and Hector Garvey at tackle and Castner ~t fullback did their share of good playing. Wynne and Mohardt each got 2 touchdowns and Desch, Thomas,· Kiley and Seifrit each annexed one. 

J? 0 0 T B A L L R .E l' I li HT 0 J? 1921 THE HAWKEYE ENCOUNTER 
IowA 10; NoTnE DAME 7 
In years to cqn:ie, when dopesters will gather and relate experiences, there will be in the minds of the -football enthusiasts, the fall of
I Notre Dame to Iowa. Thruout the entire game 
T 
the big Blue team had the best of the contest and were it not for the psychological ':bre:tks"I of the game, the score would have been a dif­i ferent story. 
_Notre Dame's superiority was unquestioned and the mere fact that Iowa b)r sheer luck ob­I tained three more points than did· the better team, does not show even in tl.1e remotest instanceI that this scant mRrgin would determine Iowa
i 
the conqueror. On the contrary, Notre Dame
l 
completely outclassed, outplayed and· outfought Jow~ making 21 first downs to Iowa's 13, com­pleted 15 out of 21 passes against 1 completed by Iowa. Then, too, Notre Dame made 398 yards _from line of scrimmage and Iowa was second best with 24.5 yards. Facts such as these cannot be scoffed as immaterial for they are essentially thoEe which win g<imes. 
However, Notre Dame and her score of stars who fought valiantly against luck h~ve no alibis to offer except th.at they were beaten; .but they· do reserve the right ·to kno'y that they were the better te:~m. Kiley made the lone touchdown and Buck Shaw did his usual bit. lVIohardt, Kiley, ·coughlin were the shining Hghts of the contest. 
t THE PURDUE MEETING
I 
NoTRE DAi\IE 33; PuRDUE 0 After the defeat by Io\\'a, the Boilermakers
t' 
loomed as possible formidable opponents of the 
Iri~h. Instead of going into the "dumps," theyI re::ponded with their traditional fight and taught 
Purdue a never-to-be-forgotten lesson that a 
Learn. may be down but never ·out. Rarely was a 
I 
better brand of football ever showri on a foreign 
gridiron and never· a team ever came back as 
Notre Dame did after that setback. 
~ 
Paul Castner, the south-paw dropkicker was · a marvel in this contest making 2 field goals. The first came in the initial few minutes of play and the eaf:e and dispatch with which he did it took some of the pep out· of the Boilermakers. Phelan substitute fullback. was alion on offense and the work of Mohardt, Coughlin, and Wynne in the back field and Shaw, Garvev nnd Larson in the lirie featured e''ery play. · 
I· 
INDIANA 
NoTRE DAME 28; INDIANA 7 
Playing on a sodden field and altogether un­suitable conditions, the Irish next met the Crim­wn at Indianapolis. Fi-iday night the rain fell continually rnd converted the already sunken \Vashington Park to a sea of mud and when the te:tms took the field at 2:30, the primary ques­tion was which team would get their uniforms dirty first. 
The first quarter was merely in sounding out 
I 
l each team. Open play was a thing impossible 
! and kicking w2s the method ·resorted to. By this 
i time the Ijlayers were unrecognizable and manyI humorous incidents occurred. In the second 
l 
l l 
I I ! 
I 
i I 
I 
L 
quarter Rockne ·took out his '~shock backfield" and replaced them with the first· string. Long plunges by Wynne and end runs by l\llohardt, Coughlin and Castner placed the ball within the shadow of the goal rnd Coughlin hit off tackle for the touchdown. In this period Indiana came back strong and Kyle went over for the nece~sary six points and Leonard kicked goal. 
The second half was another story and Notre Dame came back 'vith a vengeence and before the final whistle blew, the score was swelled by touchdo"'ns by Wynne, Eddie An~lerson and Coughlin. Buck Shaw also did his allotted work ~nd kicked cl go::ds. after. touchdown~ 

--~-~ 

F' 0 0 T B A L L 1{/E l' IE H' · 0 F' 1921­
HOMECOMING· 
NoTRE DAaiE 7; NEBRASKA 0 
Before a crowd of over 20,000 admirers, Notre Dame defeated the heavy Cornhuskers in the most bitterly fought contest ever played on Cartier field. The strength of the Nebraska learn lay in her defensive qualities and during the opening periods, the Rockers were unable to penetrate the forward line of the Maroon. 
How~ver, in the second quarter after continual pounding, Notre Dame took apvantage of a poor kick by Lewellen and Moluirdt took the ball over ·· for a touchdown giving the local team the edge which Nebraska never surmounted. After this Nebraska tightened and Notre Dame was kept at a safe distance from the goal. 
Captain Swanson was an individual star-for the Maroon while l\'lohardt, \Vynne, Castner and Danny. Coughlin performed brilliantly for Notre Dame. In the line Garvey and Shaw threw the giarits for substantial losses. Eddie Anderson and Hunk Anderson w~re everywhere, · breaking up passes and. bothering the running attacks~ 'The second half was a de:.1dlock, but the cl.osc~Icss of play did not affect anyone's ·• 
. interest. In the fourth period, Nebraska threatened with a pass attack but it was ~horl lived and it died practically as soon as it was· inaugurated. The old grads who came back marveled at the latent strength of the Rockc~s and openly confessed it to be the be~t team which ever wore the blue and golcL 
THE CADETS 
·. NaTHE DAJ\JE 23; AnMY 0 
In the finest exhibition of football ever shown
. }~ . 
in the east, Notre Dame met and defeated the Army eleven after the latter was conceded to win by the majority of the critics. However, it only goes to show that critics arc· often wrong and 

·.tha~ the eastern brand of football is not superior to the ";est. 
·The ~ay was idcrrl for football and as the teams took the field the stands gave vent to a tremendous cheer which threatened the historic walls of Fort Putnam. The first of the game was given to a punting duel and had no material effect as to the score. However, in the second period after a brief exchange of punts, the ball was in the Army's territory and a 35 yard pass to Kiley from Mohardt was good for the initial marker~ Injuries were '~cakcning the Army team and'aftcr a few minutes, Mohardt passed to \Vynnc and <mother touchdown. 
In the second half,. Kiley again came into the spotlight when he again. caught a prelly ·pass and trotted for the third touehdo\vn. Mohardt broke away with his· sensational runs for long gains and one of these resulted in the garnering of the remaining Lally. Buck Shaw repeated and his every allcmpl was perfcct. · 

THE SHIFT 
F·O 0 T B A L L R E l' IE 1~' 0 F 1921 · RUTGERS FROLIC 
. NoTnE DAME 4·8; RuTGERS 0 \Vhen invac1ing the east, Notre Dame believed in doing things up brown and when they met Rutgers on election day at the Polo Grounds, they. realized a triumph for· which· they had hoped. The game was played uncl2r ideal weather conditions and with the bright green turf and crisp air, the boys lost no Lime in gelling under way, for in the first two minutes of play: Paul Castner th~ Northland star, together with incomparable interference, broke away on a long run for a touchdown. This did not in any way break clown the spirit of the :Maroon and despite ~rent oclch, they fought all the game; fought in more ways than one. 
One thi.ng which could be said of Rutgers and 
that is she took all that Notre Dame gave and 
then looked for more and tho· the score may 
imply an easy game, the fact remains that it 
was anything but that. Desch was another star 
of the contest and a ltlio. he was in on I y. a short 
time, he made three long runs which aggregated 
over 125 yards--:-a notable · accomplishment.. 
Castner added. six points by· kicking field goals Jrom the 45 and 43 yard lines respectively. Runs by Wynne, Coughlin and lVlohardt also featured. Buck Shaw, .Garvey and Hunk Ander­E"On gave impressions as to the stuff Notre :Oame 
·"\\'as made of. · 
THE INl)IANS 
NoTnE DAME 4·2; HASKE.LL INDIANS 7 .. 
In a game replete with freak plays and num~r7 
ous substitutions on both sides, the Reclmen 
went down to defeat before a. crowd of ardent 
sport lovers for only Jhey would attemiJt lo stay 
thruout the game in the drizzling rain. 
Replacements· caused Notre Dame to lose some of its strength and clue to the fact that the second ·string played most of the game,_ the score was kept lower than was anticipated. In ·the ~econd half the Indians ·opened up with a . dazzling attack of freak passes and running plays which almost bewildered the new men. However, 'they did not possess_ ~he pu_nch as did 
the Rockers and their offensive could be com­pared with the yelping of ·a little poodle clog at a St. Bernard. They collected their lone touch­down in the closing period when Wofford ran 20 yards on a fake cross-buck. · Kewpie Brown, 
· the diminutive guard from Youngstown played his first full game at guard and surprised his most ardent· admirers. Bill Voss notwithstand­ing injuries !?UStained earlier in th_e season played good and consistent ball and bids fair to shine next fall. In the .last quarter the first ~tring was mustered in and numerous runs py 1\'Johardt, \Vynn~ and Castner continually 'brought. the crowds to their feet. 

F 0 0 T BALL R E 1' J·E HT 0 F 1921 FISTICUFFS WITH. MARQUETTE 
NOTRE DAME 21; MARQUETTE" 7 
Notre Dame defeated Marquette in a close game on a repulsive day and an equally repul­sive field. It was a battle of Irish vs. Irish and .the fur. sure did fly from the moment they first hit the shavings until they left the field looking like wooden soldiers. 
lVIarquette showed surprising strength both on the offensive and defensive. In the· first quarter after a poor kick, Marquette took advantage of the break. and on steady line plunges took the hall to N. D.'s 5 yard line and Taugher hurled himself over the NDers line. Pandemonium 

THANKSGIVING 
·NpTRE DAME 48; MICHIGAN AGGIES 0 
Th~ Turkey Annual held in itself gre1t signif­icance·_ this year, for it marks the pa~sing of 13 of the squad. Never before has this fact pre­sent~d itself .more forcibly and no greater ova­tion was ever given the retiring Ro·ckers as· they left the field :of honor for the last time. 
/
. . 
The game was not extraordinary itself but Rockne .instnicted his generals to play everything in the repertoire and they did to the utmost sat­isfaction of the crowd. Those plays which were · kepf secret thruout the season, those same plays which beat .the Army were shown before the public gaze and the South Bend admirers gave reigned supreme in the . Marquette stand for they had scored on the conquerors of West Point and Rutgers. Their triumph was short liv~d -for Notre Dame took life as they always do in like circumstances and Johnny Mohardt ran 4B yards for a touchdown. Shortly after a short pass to Eddie Anderson netted another. The final score came in the last period when the in­comparable Wynne went thru center for the re­maining marker. Shaw complemented as usual. Mohardt was supreme in this game and aided by . Wynne and Castner, who interfered perfectly, he repeated his past performances. 
vent to their enthusiasm on their perfect execu­
tion. 
Touchdowns by Wynne, Mohardt, Castner, . Bergman and Mehre, the latter intercepti~1g a ·forward pass and running 46 yards mounted the · score. Many of the second string men were 
given experience in the latter part of the game 
and their playing was indeed gratifying with the 
dark outlook ahead. ' . 
·Thus ended a most successful season and not­
withstanding the· Iowa defeat; every Notre Oame 
man can gaze with pride upon the accompli~h­
menl of this Wonder Team 'vhich met and de­
feated three strong teams within the short space 
of a week. 
F 0 0 T B A L L .-R E 1' IE H' 0 F 1921 
DarsitlJ (3ridiron ffien of l 92l 

·cAPTAIN EDDIE ANDERSON 
Just Eddie we call him but others think dif­ferently and ·caption hipt "The Hoosier Wizard" and "All American." When the team invaded the east this fall, the press took up his name and blazoned it all along Broadway. Hugie Fullerton says he is in a class by himself and Wallie Camp has given him honorable mention in his list of season's stars. 
To Eddie falls the honor that many would aspire for. On that memorable occasion last year when the monogram men of that great eleven met and declared him captain of still a 
_greater eleven,  many wete  skeptical as to his  
success for Eddie was still in his 'teens.  But his  
youth  proved  his  greatness and  the  sceptics  

threw up their hands and resigned their fate to the _gibes of the, "I told you ;;o's." 

LAWRENCE SHAW 
,·,If Buck is not All American, 'then there is no All American." This phrase is on the lips of all who have seen him in action this fall, for the silent working tackle is the best turned out of this university in many a year. This matinee idol also captioned the Perfect Man is an in­tegral factor in every play and woe begone the end who faces him when his beauty mask is dropped. At all times Buck is that modest un­assuming chap, never looking for trouble but welcoming it nevertheless when it arrives. On the gridiron, Buck does that which all players aspire to__:_namely, to be on the bottom of every play without appearing too much in the lime­light. This is his last year and he leaves to all Notre Dame posterity, a reputation founded on 
modesty, integrity and perseverance. 
ROGER KILEY . 
Rodge hails from Chicago, but he is not a bandit ·except for his ever grabbing·-forward . passes from the ozone. .Together · 'vith his running mate Eddie Anderson; is ·formed ~he greatest .pair of ends in the country. When Rodge reached out_ and caught a pass and· made ·a touchdown against th~_~Ariny this fall, Jack Viock, who · was· watching . him all seiison acclaimed him · the best. His features are familiar to ~he entire country .for his picttire luis 
_been published in al~. the papers. . · : He is one .of our best bids for an All Ameri­can berth this fall and it is; altogether probable for he has been mentioned by a majority of the authorities on football, including Walter Camp. 


5 bl:j L ltl --ME 
FOOTBALL IrE1TJE-HT OF 1921 

HARTLEY ANDERSON 
"I'll do the best we can," is the famous e~­pression attributed to an equally famous warrior from Notre Dame. Hunk is about the hardest man on the team this fall for his 170 pounds of hard muscle is that of the highest-tension variety and nothing short of a pile driver. could put Hunk out of the game. A football game to him is the most serious thing in his life and to see him play would justify this fa~t. ' 
Hunk leaves Notre Dame in June after four years of wonderful playing on the gridiron, despite the fact that he did not receive the notice which was justly due him from the press. 
CHESTER WYNNE 
This rangy timber-topper was a convert to football. Chetter wanted to play but Coach Rockne thought it would impair his track ability but· after much pleading' Rock consented. This was a happy choice by Rockne for \Vynne has developed in leaps and 'bounds to the top of the list. Charles Brickley after seeing Wynne per­form at the Army and Rutgers acclaimed him the peer of all fullbacks in the country. This is not an idle claim for he is not alone in his conten­tion, for many writers of national fame have compared him with Mahan, Eichenlaub and Ted Coy. 
JOHN lVIOHARDT 

Johnny Mohardt, the All American, is all that can be said of him and even more than that. This fleet-footed player" from the Iron City is . 
· a double threat man who can either pass with deadly accuracy or skirt the ends with .such re­markable grace and ease as only a Thorpe or Gipp could do. 
Moh!Jrdt, as a New York paper puts it, is "one of those elusive backs who combines the diver­gent qualities of a player of prominence, namely his aptitude to adjust himself to any style of play whether it be individual or team play." Individually his playing is of a brilliant non-erratic character; in team play he com·di­nates beautifully with his team-mates. He is perhaps n?ted best for his consistency and few backs can reach the quality of perfection which he has set. 
DONALD GRANT 
No one would know who we meant if ,·ve called him that, so we will use the old familiar Chet, our veteran extra·ordinary. Beginning here as a freshman in 1916, Chet learned the Notre Dame system under Harper. He played varsity in 1917 and went away to conquer the Germans the following year. Last year Chet returned a 
"I veteran in two senses and took up the work
! 
where he left off, playing with the same old abandon which distinguished him in 1917. He again repeated this year and filled into the steps of Joe Brandy. 


,,., 3? • t
tt J ;


F 0 0 T B A L L R E l'IE H' 0 F 1921 
c:. 
DANIEL COUGHLIN 
Danny is one of those stars after whom, hard luck delights to follow. In the first part of the season was a veritable whirlwind and as a whirl­wind· he gathered momentum the farther he traveled. Then what we expected came and Danny was injured in the Nebraska game. It was his leg again. However, this did n~t stop him and again he started for the top. He reached it again at the Rutgers game and hard luck again entered and Danny was carried off the field never to don the uniform this season. · 
Coughlin is perhaps the best open field runner on the squad and extremely hard to down. Quick 
. a~ the start, a sudden stop-a side step to the right, a sharp pivot and then off for 50 yards and a touchdown-that is Danny. 
PAUL CASTNER 
This rangy south-paw kicker is another prod­uct of the north country where football and hockey is considered a religio-n. When Paul · gets hack on a kick formation, he is a triple threat man for he is a hard runner, can drop­kick or punt with equal ease and dispatch or still he can break up the morale of the opposi­tion by passing from the left side of the li9e. 
Paul is captain of the varsity hockey Learn this winter and considered one of the best forwards on the ice today. We could write for hours on his achievements on the gridiron, but what is · the use-we all know Paul. 


FRED LARSON 
Ojay, as he is better known is a comparative 
youngster in the coterie of stars~ His work for 
the past two seasons as regular center· on the 
varsity has placed him on a par with the best 
in the country and when next fall rolls around, 
Ojay will certainly rank as the best. 
With his townsman Hunk Anderson, they form the· bulwark of the fonvard line and either offensively or defensive! y, they are veritable ·tigers. Neither are of Celtic origin but as Rockne puts it, "they are Irish by invironment." 
ARTHUR A. GARVEY 
Sun~amed Hector and the Beast, Garvey is all of that. Some witty senior told a freshman that Hector lived in Mammoth Cave and con­sumed a carcass of beef for one meal. This the freshman believed and no wonder. Hec i.; one of the biggest men on the football gridiron today and as fast as many backs 
In all the games this fall, Garvey has ma~le an enviable reputation as a fighter and a gnme one, too. From the Nebraska game he has played \'iith a broken bone in his left hand. Such a display of grit creates in one the impression that he is superhuman m~d will never say die until the final whistle· blows. 



I 
! 
! 
·j 
F 0 0 T B A L L R E l'IE H' 0 F 1921 
l 
I 
I
HARRY MEHRE I. This valiant knight of the gridiron was l Larson's running mate this year at center and I i 
I
little there is to chose· between the two. Both are seasoned veterans and both are gr~duates 
j
from the school of fight. Harry played varsity first in 1919 when he alternated with Trafton 
I
and Macligan and the last two years whh :; Lars011. He is a heavy, good-natured chap w:•h ! an everlasting grin on his countenance, always I 
I
looking for the less serious side of ~ituations I and bearing his misfortunes with a c'est Ia 
t Guerre attitude. If you are ever looking for Harry, just look for the-man with the continual i f · smile. · 
I 
ROBERT PHELAN 
l
Bob Phelan, the· huge silent working fullback ! is an admirable example of the Rockne system. I I Exceptionally fleet of foot and quick of mind .1 i he upsets the elope that ~l big man cannot he i 
i
f<1St both in mind and body at the sam~ time. On offense Bob picks his holes with accuracy <•nd then plunges thru with an initial velocity f of 190 pounds and the momentum of a thousand l:or~epower shaking off would-he tacklers and I
f 
leaves a group of dazed players in hi.5 wake. \ 
When the whistlf" called the ·close nf the l\Jichigan Aggie-Notre Dame game~ it signified· I the passing of Phelan from the nmks of Notre i De1me football but his name will forever live 
i
as an example of the Fighting Irish grit and determination. .. ,4· I : EARL WALSH 
"The hardest hitting half-hack· o~ the. squad': _is the phrase attributed to Nails Walsh. For the past thre'e years, he has been an important factor in. the Gold and Blue's success thru his defensive 
ability. Breaking up forward pass .plays seems to be a second nature to Nails and the end or half-back must be wary. to the nth degree. to get him and complete a forward. , 
This is Walsh's last year with the varsity and his absence will be keenly felt when Hockne issues his call for candidates. next year. 
·. EDWARD DEGREE 
One hundred per cent, all wool and a yard wide is a pretty fair description of Eddie. De Gree. Coming to Notre Dame in the fall of 
I 1919 after playing with the Harvard Radio t School during the past fracas, he followed in the footsteps of his famous brother and made I an excellent name for himself on the freshman 
~ 
f 
eleven that year. Due to his trusty toe and remarkable aggressive qualities, he soon estab­lished himself as understudy of· :Morrie Smith. This year he has been altering at guard with Jim I Dooley. His kicking is perhaps his best asset for· on many occasions he has lifted the spheroid over 80 yards. I 
·II 
I 
I 
I 
F 0 0 T B A L L R E 1' IE 1~1 0 F 1921 
FRANK THOMAS Tom~y is anything except a quarterback as far as looks are concerned but when one sees him in action, "the wonder grew, how one small head could carry all he. knew." Tommy is riot fat~pleasingly plump if you will-but his plumpness does not detract a particle from his ability to instill spirit and fight in a team. On the contrary, he is cool-headed, fast and a quick thinker. His ability to judge punts is uncanny and strange to say notwithstanding his weight, he is fast in getting away with them. Tommy has another year on the varsity and after this year's seasoning. should prove to be a hear for 1922. 


GLEN CARBERRY Judge Carberry, the understudy of Kiley and running mate of Si Seyfrit on the secondary line is one of those men who can stand a world of punishment and then come back for more. \Vhen he charges he leaves an impression on the other man and the latter respects him from then on. ·When he tackles, the grandstand lit­erally shakes with laughter, for judge has a peculiar and droll manner of arising from a heap. . .This is Carberry's last year with the squad for his presence· would he needed next fall. However he has performed in true Notre Dame style on the gridiron and if he has the same pep in worldly enterprises as in football, the wishes of ·success of the university to him will be unnecessary. 


HARVEY BRO\\TN Kewpie Brown likes to imitate and :Morrie Smith is his criterion. When Rock called out last year's freshman squad. Brown went out as. a matter of course and tried out for the backfield. He was a good man and hard as nails but the aggressive manner he· went at everything set Rockne thinking and before the season was over last year said that Kewpie would be another lVIorrie Smith. So when the· squad returned this September, Brown was put on the bucking machin~· rather than taking out ends. So ~reat was his success that I.1e was made understudy to Hunk Anderson who taught him the finer points of the game. Brown ·bids fair for a regular berth on the big team next year. 
JAi\'lES DOOLEY 
Better known as Jim. this· husky easterner came forth. saw the West and admits he rather likes it. )im is one of those good-natured Irishmen of the old school who gains friends everywhere, who maii1tains that philosophy of 

F 0 0 T B A L L R E 1' IE H' 0 J? 1921 
life is founded on a big smile and a hearty luindshake. Playing guard on the Hoosier eleven is no 
. small job and Big Jim has held down this posi­tion to great success. He is a great factor in every play whether he be in ·the· interference· or merely taking a lot of punishment in the line and reciprocating with some too. On the ·opposition he invari~bly gels the jump on the. other tackle and that man is in for a good ride. Defensive!y, he is at his best and it is a known (act that few plays got by him during the last season. 
THOMAS LIEB Tom is one of those general utility men who • can be used almost anywhere. At the begin­ning of the season he was placed at fullback, but Rockne saw in him the makings of a half­back and subsequently the change was made. Tom is of the crashing variety who takes every­thing in front of him along . and is never · downed until there arc at least six men on him. At the last of the season, Tom was shifted to. tackle, his old prep school position and there displayed his usual fight and skill. 
AUGUST DESCH \Vhen Gus reported to Rockne this fall for football the coach threw everything at him except the gymnasium. But perseverance won over caution and Gus was given a suit to "fool around with". He did not fool around but with dogged determination. went to work to master the Irish style of play. He did such a complete job of it that. everybody was astounded at his perform­ances. · An open.Jicld is what Gus likes, for give him the ball and watch his smoke. In every game he has reeled ofT runs of· 40 a11d .50.. yards _and the .onIy reason for. their· shortness·. is the dimen~ sions .of t~H~. field. · 


·FOH.REST COTTON· · Big ·Foci,-the· pride of ·Elgin has developed this past ·season w that extent that he is able to replace Hec~or Garvey in the big games ,vhen Garvey is hurt: This is no small. job and it . res.ts. on. the shoulders of it man. \vho must dis­play his capability before Rockne would put: him to the test. · · Cotton combines a natural aggressiveness and ·a determination to.break thru the opposing line at all costs· (or perhaps he is afraid Rock will · ride him if he doesn't). Well it is safe to say there arc few lines he has not penetrated. 
F 0 0 T B A L L I~ E VIE', 1¥ 0 F 1921 
The Reserves 
.It takes a scrappy, never say die, bunch of ~econd stringers to make a real Varsity gang and what it takes to make this invincible group, the 1921 subs had in great quantity and quality. Battered and b~nged to a frazzle, this fighting crew took on the big Berthas night after night and to say that they put the first squad ·. in fighting trim would be putting it mildly. Surely this valiant group of fighters, ~hese stout hearted chaps who wo'uld give most anything for the coveted monogram, are worthy of some words of rccogmtwn. Cra~hing day after day against heavier odds, beating their hearts out on the sidelines for just one chance to take the field, the "Subs'' were. very much there and ready like the minute men' of old to jump into the breach at· the· word. There was "Micky" Kane, !!tocky, ·. s·mall, speedy with the brains· of a Brandy. <'Sf' Seyfrit, comedian and all-around big-time utiiity rna~.. "Sy" has a smile that is irresistible, that ·beams· over with the true old fighting spirit of Notre Dame. Then there is 
r:-·---··· ..... 
"Jack" Flynn, that happy-go-lucky, six foot giant from the city of Syracuse, a. guard that goes at his heavy work with vengeance. Q~arterbacks there were none to equal the caliber of Rease, Logan, Smith and lVIagevney. That these ·men will be lustily paged next year is a forego~e conclusion. Mixon and ·Reagan pla.yed a heady game at center and the· fact that. Ro~knc had them under close observation during the. season is. a sufficient indorsement · of their ··worth. Young "Dutch" Bergman the . III· with all his track speed did monumental wo~·k in·the back­field position. Voss\ put on a .brand of tackling wares that should put him as.· the ·leading man on the 1922 squad. There was ·camerop, Miller; Murphy, Higi, Byrn.e, lVIaher, Kelly, Mayl, "Red" Shea ~ncl McDermott the greatest basket-ball man that ever stepped on to a court.. _Jaking them all in all, the reserves were; a cro)~'cl '~ho•came within an ace of making the top for -the reason that the historic halls of this gr.eat.'old ii1stitution housed the country's best in the moleskin game. 
-.,-,-_.-.---··-----~--... 
r ·~.· .."· 

F 0 0 T BALL . R E VIE 1~ll 0 F 1921 
· Frosh. (3ridders 
The 1921 Green Team was the strongest that 
ever aggregated at Notre Dame with perhaps the 
notable exception of the 1919 team. Well 
balanced and heavy, these men under the capable 
leadership of Coaches Holton and Hodler 
showed remarkable strength in the early part of 
the season and kept the Varsity on edge for 
the strenuous season which they encountered. 
By virtue of their stellar work in scrimmage. and 
game, many of them ar:e slated for Varsity jobs 
next year with the general exodus of practically 
all the men on the big team. · 
Due to injuries sustaine·d in the early part 
of the season, some of the stars were forced 
to . the bench by Rockne who saw that they 
might be more useful next fall. Adam Walsh 
was one of these, a California lad with all 
sorts of grit and ability and who is expected to show great things. Stuhldrehre, the diminu­. tive quarter from Kiski Prep broke his ankle and· J\ras forced ·to· retire. He also has the stuff that. star~ ·are .made of, and will force his com­
. peti'tors..to · ihtf li~it.· · 
The encl. positions were the weakest th1s fail 
not~vith~t~nding .the· fact that there were many 
men out for them. However, McNulty, Hunsin­
ger; -Colliris~. Smith, Lew Walsh and W. Eaton 
played consistent ball and may work into Varsity 
caliber ~vith ·little. training. The tackle jobs were 
well .tak~ri care .of by Stang, E_cl. Miller, Glie­
chert and "Big" Frank Milbauer·. The Iauer is a youngster of 285 pounds and extremely h~rd to move. Guards this fall altho not numerous are mastering Notre Dame style of crashing play and next fall, Kaiser, Monohan, Vergara, Frett and lVIoes ·are scheduled to ao great things. Vergara is a veritable eel on offensive and stone­wall on defensive and there is no question as to his chances of playing next fall. · 
In Arndt and Walsh, there are ·two centers who will bid fair for prominence."· Both· are fast, quick-witted and heavy. 
The backfield reflected the strength. of the line and with Stuhldrehre, Leydon, Cerney, H. Eaton and Bill Sheehan the destiny of the yearlings was well guided. Under their excel,ent general­5hip, long gains were made by the Miller "t"iins", Don and Jerry, Crowley, Monahan·, Coughlin and Doc Connel at half-backs and Enright _and Liver­good at full..Crowley is a diamond in the rough and it will not require any stretch of the imagi­nation to foresee him stepping into the brogans of the late· George Gipp. 
The freshmen passed thru a none-too-well season in foreign games but the popular idea of a first year team is not to win games. but to gain experience. ·The 1921 squad passed thru this school of hard knocks and are well qualified for the grea~ things in store. for them. 

F' 0 0 T B·A L L R E 1' IE ll' 0 F 1921 

BARRY HOLTON . Freshman Coach. 
Coach Holton :rpade his first appearance in Notre Dame football in 1917, but the war pre­vented his playing with the Varsity after that year. This year he has used his football knowl­edge and experience in developing what has been the best Freshman team ever seen at Notre Dame . 
. By means of this team he has contributed a most important part to the success of the Varsity's 1921 season. He began by picking his players from a maze of Freshman aspirants, a task which seemed almost impossible at the beginning of the year; at that time Cartier Field was speckled with Freshman football players. But Barry was the man for the job, and he was not long in developing· a team which went th_rough a very successful season, made the Varsity show what it could do, and raised "Rock's" hopes for another championship team· next year. Barry drilled his men thoroughly in the plays used by 
· the Varsity's opponents, but to give the latter some real c'ompetition he figured ou~ new plays for his team to use. He has developed exceed­ingly well several players who will step into the shoes of the Varsity men wl~o leave this 
year. _, ALBERT HODLER Assistant Freshman Coach. 
Coach Holton was . very well assisted by "Duke" Rodier ·in making a Freshman team. "Duke" was an All-Northwest halfback in 1919, playing for Oregon Agricultural College. He came to Notre. Dame. last winter, and conse­
·quently was not eligible for varsity. But Rockne does not waste football ability, so at the begin­ning of the year told "Duke" to· help Holton whip the Freshmen into shape. His knowledge of plays and ability as a p~ayer soon made l1iin · indispensable to ·the Freshman team. D~ring Holton's absence at the end of th~. year. "Duke". had·complete cl}arge of the team. 
·, 
..·:·.-. 
... . :·.; ·­
. . . 
DEP~UW GETS M·ESSE·D UP 
_.,·' 
J? 0 0 T B A L L R E 1' IE H' 0 F 1921 

J: 
I 
I· 
i 
: I':It 
h ·! I 
F 0 0 T B A L L R E VIE HT 0 F 1921 
I 
l I
I 
~ 
I 
I I .I.! 
,. I 
I 
i 
I. i 
l I 
.J· 
J 
~~ 
I 
I 
l 
I . 
I 
I 
:I 

F 0 0 T BALL. 1~ E 1' IE HT 0 F -1921 
Review of the Season 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
BY STEPHEN WILSON 
A good:·d~al of the succe~s of 'football at Notre Dame can'~be t~ac.ed backdir~ctly:to'jnterh~ll-. football. :·These.t~am~. are ~oaCl~ed by capable-· men who play on the varsity and .who impart. many ideas to ;the. hall _men ,v]w in turn put: these ideas into practice~nd ofte~·-rise .tO star~· dom. W~rthy examples of the :·lattef,:;re G.iPI~. and Norm Barry:.· :The.y played tl1eir:first ye~rs on interhall. te~ms and t1uough seconailiY. in-· struction rose r~pidly and their 'fame iast year is a fact ?f ·common knowleqge.. . 
The past .seaso~ was most successftil in inter-hall circles. By virtue of a heavier line under the .excellent tutelage of Eddie Anderson, B~ownson Hall came thru with an undefeated season and displayed great P?ssibilities. Corby Hall were worthy 9pponents of Brownson -and runner-up of the title.· Those who witnessed the titular contest between B_rown_s~il and Corby· 
will never forget the brilliant ~attle which 
extended far into the gloaming. . 
Later in .the season, Sorin aided by McDermott, Logan and Prokup began a brilliant "offensive which might have played havo·c ear~ier _in the schedule. Badin as usual had ~ good team but 
due to the fact that thev did not play together . for any length of time, their playi~g was loose ~and inconsistent. · The Day Dodgers presented. a . strong :array 'of ~e~ but lack of _intere~t proved ,. ,to·~e their downfall. 'Both.Carroll and Walsh had :their quotas ···of experienc~d ·me11 -b~t could ·· 1iot cope with·the superiority of the Lop~notchers. · ·At :the··clos~ of._.the season an· all-int~rhall . team . \VaS : picked 'by t]{e COaches :which re~ect's-g~od judgment and inuch d~li~_eration. This is a· very formidable aggr~ga.tio~ and-with­out a' doubt they-:could gr~·e a good' a~count of 
·!ihems~lves if they were ilit~ed against 'many small·· ~ollege· t~a~s. BROWNSON CHAMPIONS 
The Inter-hall struggle was one of the keenest seen on the Campus in years with Brownson coming <?Ut on top of the pile and taking the Championship honors. Brownson wori all its. · ''icto~ies and practically all the dopesters award­
• ed the Big. Blue and Whit_e machine a comforta­ble edge on all c_ompetitors. Brownson always had a big, consistently drilled eleven on the field and the fact that Brother Allen's proteges were at all times able ·to cope successfully with stiff competition argues well for ·the coaching. of those who had the Blue jersied bunch in han9,. It was none other than our "Eddie". 

INTERBALL CHAMPIONS 
II 
F 0 0 T B A L L R E 1' IE H' 0 F. 1921 

BADIN HALL 
ALL INTER-HALL Position Name Hall .L.·E.;. :: .... ~ ....Blum..........Brownson.· 
L. T..............Oberst. .........Brownson 
L. G.............Weavel. ........Brownson· 
C. . .............Riley .....~ . . ...Brownson 
R. G............ Holmberg ...: .........Sorin 
R. T..............Flinn ..............Corby 
R. E. . ..........Drennen. . . . . . . ·.....Corby 
Q. . ............Whelan .............Walsh 
R. H. . ...........Burns ...........Brownson 
L. H. . ..........Prokup ... : .......·...Sorin 
F. . ...........Barry..............Corby 
INTER-HALL FOOTBALL SCHEDULE. OCTOBER 2.~Corby-Sorin; Badin-Brown­~wn; Carroll-Walsh. Free-Day Students . OCTOBER 9.-Sorin-Brownson; Corby-Radin; Carroll-Day Students. Free-\Valsh. OCTOBER 16.-Badin-Day Students; Sorin­\Valsh; Brownson-Corby. Free~Carroll. ·OCTOBER 23.:_Corby-Carroll; Walsh-Day Students; Sorin-Badiri. Free-Brownson. OCTOBER. 30.-Corby-Walsh;. Carroll­Brownson; Sorin-Day Students. Free~Badin. NOVEMBER 6.-Badin-Carroll; Corby-Day Students; Brownson-Walsh. Free-Sorin. · NOVEMBER 13.-Brownson-Day Students; Sorin-Carroll; Badin-Walsh. Free-Corby. 
. (. 
•...,.._ : ~-. 
, .. 

t 
J. 
·p 0 0 T B A L L · R E l' IE l~l' .0 F 1921 

SORIN HALL 
Upper Row-Raub, Volker, Holmburg, Nyhan, Front· Row-Miller; Cm~mody, Scoll, "Kid" Prokup, Crowley. Ashe, Steinle. Middle Row-Byrne, Rice, Toth. 

. CARROLL-HALL, .. · ... 
Upper Row.~''Mon:iss'', HHcd",' ,'~Wop", "Mun-· · Culhane, Girardit.l. 
. -,_·.elm.", Martin. . .. · Front How.-"Toney", .S91111Jler~ille, "Ehrritan", '.Middle How;~McGivney, Smith, Carfinr1, \Vood, · · Doii. LemGnL Cap't.; "Puddy" Gorman. 
F 0 0 T B A L L R 1£ 1' IE lV 0 F 1921 
Concerning Our newark ~od...Fat hers 
The review of any athletic season would not be complete without the proper recognition of those individuals who in some sense contributed to the success of that season,· rind so in a small degree this volume will endeavor to convey the gratitude Notre Dame feels toward ]oseph.Byrne· · Jr. and Sr., and Danny Sullivan of Newark for the £plendid co-operation and support afforded the Notre Dame squad when they invaded the east this fall. 
From the moment this worthy triumverate took the team under -their wing at West. Pojnt until they saw that all the Notre Dame luggage~ was safely packed on the -7:15 headed:· \vest, there was not a dull_ inst~mt --Danny was a.born promoter and it was not before many hours that he had allached him£elf to every-member· and made fast friends with all. Joe Byrne; affec­tionately called by the boys was always with Danny, administering to their needs and creat­ing new comforts for them. It was Rockne _who mildly interposed now and then, claimed that the \\•hole bunch would be on the rocks in a short time. as far as training was concerned. The training altho sometimes evaded was not en­
I 
tirely dispen£ed with and the remarkable result ,. of Notre Dame against Rutgers was a mute evi­dence of their condition. Everyone knows of the exact details of the wonderful times in New York and Asbury Park
I 
I 
I 
! 
I 
and reference to them would be unnecessary but 
• a brief resume ~hows how the former :sons of Notre Dame treated our representatives. The welcoming party inclt1ding Rupe lVlills and Mr. Shanley met the team. at" tile Plains after the game and escorted them to· New York ·thence to · a the~tre. Subsequent dinner: parties and other ' functions fea-tured and then thei 've-re· rushed to As~ury_ Park fo1:. the 'tn1ining. perio:d. Enter­tainment was furnished in ·quantities· here and after three wonderful ·days of ideal weather, the _entire party' l~ft for New York Ciiy. · In. the ilfternoon, t~e ·game with 'Rutger~-,,,_a~ played and it is siiperfluous"to dwell on the d~t?ils. Two dinner-parties, one at the New_ York Athletic Club and the other at Reisenwebers and the Audi­torium afforded great pleasur~. for the. evening. :. The next morning the team entrained for the 
. west ·with the common affirmation that the trip was the most successful ever; taken by a Notre Dame team, not alone from the point of vic­tories gained, -but that Notre Dame _may well· be proud of her graduates and old students. No greater devotion to any .team was evidenced more, no greater reciprocation. was ever given by any team in recognition of co-operation imd· no season bids fairer. for success than next yea'r's with such capable men as these as active boosters of all things Notre Dame. 

NOTRE DAME ROOTERS
. ~ . 

J? 0 0. T B A L L R E l' IE H' 0 F 1921 


Itn flm.emnriam 
The glory. of George Gipp's prowess had just begun to be re-echoed throughout the land when the knell of death cut short the swelling paen. De­
• i cember fourteenth· marks a very important date in the student life of every Notre . Dame man. It is on that day all our thoughts revert to George Gipp·, .to pay him .respect and · offer up :prayers for his soul. He had brought to· himself and to · Notre Dame a wealth of glory and fame, he stepped into his grave, . leaving hut the memory of his flaring fame. Like a volcanic · eruption,_ Gipp's. fame flashed up before the masses, and almost . within. the twinkling of an eye it was quenched. His glory came 
· in like the rushing waters of Niagara, and at once passed out in the pall.or of geath. The recollection of his life is as impressive -as the. flash of lightning. _Upon him were showered the praises and 

honors that came to few men. · He · was proclaimed from . . coast to coast as the greatest 
" player of ·all time. He was chosen on all the mythical elevens whic'h were published ' at the close of the season of 
· ninete.e_n_ hundred and twenty. His name will never be for­gotten, and to Notre Dame . :: · men especially he is ·an ex­ample. Words cannot ·con­. tain ·our love· and esteem for him. He was ·at all times a· 
. ·gentlem~n and a friend, of splendid character and high ideals. His name is one that 
·wil~ alway~ ~omniand respect. 
:t-o. 

'I 
r:
.t 
il­
;:•1 
I . 
. f 

. :, 
I. 
F 0 0 T B A L L R E 1' IE HT 0 F 1921 
NOTRE DAlVlE'S SUCCESS .
IDEALS 
I-lENilY BARNHART
If one of the fathers of Notre Dame. football would step out of his picture frame in the gym \Vhen as ·the rising ·sun gleamed across the and wander out on Cartier Field during one of · tranquil plain-, ~ the practice sessions, he would feel astounded,·· _.·-·Then~ stops ·.Lip-toe upon· the golden· dome of fold his· arms, walk hack into theframe and say -Her­in the language of Mr. Noon of Schol~sticfame: ·I stop and gaze. · 
· . I think .of those sweet peaceful years, \vhen she "Times certainly have changec"J.'' : upon her lofty pedestal . . 
And. certainly true is that quotation for· the ·Looked down· arid shew the way to right and Rules Committee have all but taken the ·foot out ' peace. . . of football. The old time idea of. mass forma-But now these are but fragrant memori~s~ those 
tion and close play has been supplanted ·by . days are never to return;· · something new, more brilliant and better. Most Still as Her wondrous smile lights up the world critics admit the forward pass has revol~tionized 1 gaze: . the· game and has opened up new and hitherto 0! Notre Dame, Thou· beauteous ·lVIother ·of unrealized possibilities. Under the new regime ,_._lVIine. . . the game· is more spectacular, more. enjoyable That' which most men strive for and 'the end and conduc~ve to cleaner playing; 'it reaches into they seek to attain cim invariably be attributed and appeals to the heart of the pure·· sportsman. to earthly motives .. _This is & natural procedure who he in turn reciprocates by playing the game for we. are entirely surrounded ··by ·material for the games worth· ever looking to~ the. good ~things and the perfection of ihe material is the 
· and rejecting reprisals. · ·~oal. Such can be· said fo~ sports generally and 
football· particularly. ·On the gridiron . men .· At Notre Dame, football has a dual signifi-fight for either ideals or compensation, the cance for Coach Rockne builds character as well former being for prestige and honor either for as teams. Upon the assumption that character. self or Alma. Mater and· the latter for uierceriary is the foundation of an organization, he discards. satisfaction. The success of ·Notre Da.me does the mucker and inconstant type and replaces it not re'flect e~rthly ideals alo.ne but 'receives with a truer product. The latter may not be as divine inspiratio~ .as well, for far· above the experience~ but by his association with Notre fighting sons of~otre Dame, the .noble figure of Dame, they have caught her spirit and ·so long ·the)3lessed Virginsmiles down and guides them as the primary good has been attained, playing ·_divinely, turning them from the paths of mucker ability always comes in the wake. playing into the highroad .of cleanliness and 
success. . . With ·such a divine· her_itage t~ upliold, the sons of Notre Dame fight with that unconquer­
·PROFESSIONALISM ~ble spirit at which the world wonders..Some people by misguiding influences .and other ul­Great distrust should he shown against those terior motives seek to. defan:te the principals ofprofessional· promoters who seek with aid. of ·our· institution through the medium .of sports,a handy checkbook to blight the careers of the · hut. it. is well that we do not hearken to thecollegians. In~ariably .they are no bigger than . 
. cry. of these Junkers hut' bear them with ·a calmthe lowest criminal for they do I1ot steal anoth­ii1clifference and_' a deadly r~prisal o.n th~ fieldser's property but something. nobler and great-, of sport. Bu~ seek though thev may,. su~cesser, a reputa"tion for which money is ·a base com-. 
,cannot he denied those who endeavor lo allainpensation. A player thus approached with a . it by clean methods . and unstinted enthusiasmcheck i~ three and possibly four figures: forgets· coupled with capable leadership an·d instruction.
for an instant and the temptation is difficult to. 
Success therefore to Notre. Dame· is but thewithstand; subsequently the press which ~ver natural sequence to· the portrayal of Her· won-praised his glories, now condemns his downfall. 
. de~ful 'id~als and as .long as Notre· Dame ex­
Only concentrated efforts on part of coil~ges ... i~Ls; so':will Her qualities co-exist . with Her; and undergraduates can combat this evil. Every .· success not" being confined to the. material point means should be employed to discourage these· · of view· qf winning games but in a more ideal­individuals from approaching the athletes. and . istic sense of losing some, however, in the latter when we reach ·that ideal, college athletics 'viii · we may mentally re~erve the right to believe that forever be free from the stigma to which it I~ as our t~ain has .fou.ght well, and is deserving of our been subjected. . lasting ·devotion. · · · . . · . 
. • 
F 0 0 T B A L L R E VIE W 0 F 1921 

F 0 0 T B A L L R E l' IE H' 0 F 1921 
~ 

Q 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~­
.f-i ~ 
~­
<l! 
u 
.­
N ~ 
~ ~ 
0 
z 
~­
~ 
0 
u 
-~ 
~ 
0 
~ 
•I 
0 
0 
0 
v-5' 
,......; Ill 
a ~ ~ 
§ 
~ 
·i 
0 ro 
~ 
rn 
ro 
1-< 
...0 
Ill 
z 
l....: 
Ill 
s 
-ro 
~ 
Ill 
1-< 
0 
?-4 
----------------------------------------~-----~----~------­
F 0 0 T B A L L R E 1' 11:: H' 0 F 1921 

. KNUTE K. ROCKNE Upon the brow of our Coacli. Rockne rests 
· the crown of football mentorship~ · \Vithout the shadow of a doubt, there is but one ·in liis class and all others try to reach his perfection. Since his advent to Notre Dame, he has firmly estab­lished himself in the hearts and minds of all,. first as a player and student where his praises· were sung from coast to coast and then as· coach he displayed fear from the hearts _of_his proteges and injec~ed that Fightin' Irish spirit which is· so much in evidence today. · Last year the press unanimously acclaimed him as the Miracle Man and the Wonder Man 

of football. This year his name is the toast of thousands, many of whom do not even know the wizard. Great indeed is that-man who always, comes, Smilin' thru: 
PAUL CASTNER'S ·EDUCATED TOE 
Castner is . a great kicker. He copped the major honors· by . kicking field goals in the Rutgers' game from the 4-2 and 47 yard lines, · punting well, an-d making. two touchdowns-we ·would call this a days ·work fo.r any man. Ca£tner, as well as being a great kicker, is a n.:1~ural fieldrunner, a line plunger, and a for­midable forward passer-well, to say the least ·the big fellow is a football player in every sense 
· of lhe word. 

THE CHEER LEADERS 
Too-much credit cannot be given these men "'.-ho by their selfsacrifice and love of school lay ev~rything aside, teaching you the Big U. N. D. and ·the intricate locomotive. Game after game they perspire freely and yell themselves hoarse that you may learn the lesson of real Notre .Oame spirit so that the team on the field might know your fight and carry the fight into the opp.onents' camp. 
~ AI Slaggerl is the ~eteran of the trio and no better cheer leader yelled thru a megaphone.·· 1-li_s assistants ·are very capable and ingenious youngsters who perform with all the grace and agility of born acrobats. Truly it is that Glea­son and qark are a duet of pony cheer leaders. 
" 
:1
: i , I p·o 0 T BALL REV IE H1 0 F 1921 
·j 
:I 


WITH THE CADETS· ON THE PLAINS 

F 0 0 T B A L L R ~E .l'-1 E· H' 0 J? 1921 

THE DRESS PARADE 
Notre Dame 28; Army 0 


F 0 0 T 13 A L L It E 1' IE H' 0 F' 1921 


;. \: . . t . t ;'. : ; ., ·. ~ 
\~/
I . .( 

In the selection of our captains this pas.L year, 
· iri the wake of victory nor sordid in the case of 
no better or logical mencould be placed in· the 
defeat; in fact he is a real Notre Dame Man. 
position to. lead the wonder teams of Notre 
· \Vynne our timber-topper leads the track team 
Dame. Football has its Eddie Anderson, a 
of 1921-1922:· Himself a star, he is ever look­
born leader who captained as he played, who 
ing for ·the advantages which will benefit his 
brought to foreign fields the heritage of Notre' · · 
·team. Chet was made for this position and Fate 
Dame fight, love of the sport and a wonderful 
m·ade the selection. Jerry Blievernichi: is an ex­
reputation for clean playing. Roger Kiley our 
ample of what environment will do. He is the 
bashful Adonis pilots our basketball squ~Cl. 
"big Irish eatcher" and Ieadei· of the baseball 
. ! Quiet, unassuming and gritty, he is never hlataiit squad . 
.!'·.. ,. 

F 0 0 T B A L L 1~ E ·vIE H' 0 F 1921 

~ 
::r: 
() 
J:: 
;J> 
~­
~ 
(f) 
·-: 
F 0 0 T B A L L 1~ E 1' 1 E 11'. 0 F 1921 

Jl 0 0 T 13 A L L R E VIE lV 0 F 1921 
CR_eview of the ·season 
By FRANK WALLACE 
'Vith the lVlichigan Aggie scalp dangling from the=r belts Thanksgiving Day, Notre Dame com­pleted what has been in many respects its· most successful year. Victories over Kalamazoo, De­pauw, Purdue, Indiana, Nebraska, West Point, Rutgers, Haskell,_ Marquette and Michigan· Ag.: gies, have been checked ofT. 
· The one dark spot on the record, was a 10-7 loss to Iowa in the third -conte.:::t of the season. Iowa plunged the Notre Dame line for 10 points in the first period, but was on the defensive ­throughout the remainder of the game.. Not're Dame outyarded the· Hawkeyes more tlian two to one, scored one touchdown ancf was on the one-yard line0 for the winning score, but lacked the vital1:>unch. The defeat was the first in three s~asons and the second in four years. The line which permitted the Iowa· victory, held Indiana, Purdue,' Nebraska and West Point to 11 first downs in four games which· follo,ved tlie 1-h\vk­cye contest. . _ • . 
The team reached top . forin at West Point where it smothered the Army under 28 points for one qf the big sm:prises of the season~ Rockne's forward · pass . attack, as ·exe_mplified by th~ Mohardt to Kiley battery, the· intricacy of the Notre Da~e shift, ·the strength of the qne and · the rpeed. of the backfield, combine"d 'to stainp the squad as one of the most colorJul and mod-· ern i~ the coui1try. · Grantland Rice, Sain Crane and oti_1Cr .authorities i·ated Rockne's squad ahead of any teum in the east imd the entire host of sport writers who witnessed the games at the Plains and Polo Grounds centered. with varying . degrees upon _seven men as .\vorthy -of All-_ .. Am~rican consideration. Two of· these, Desch and Castn~r, .are second stri~-g ht1lfbacks, who have been c_rowded from the line-up by older-· men.. The remaining Notre Da!lle candidate's arc . Kil~y, _Mohardt, Capt. Anderson,-Wy~me, Sh:tw. 
Notre Dame· is geriet;ally recognized as the·.:· best forward paEsing team in -the co~ntry; and the lVI'ohardt' to Kiley' battery h:~s been the b~g · cog in. this aerial ·offense thi·oughout the ye:~r. Capt. Andersol1 ·h:1s been slightly behind Kiley in receiving passes, but plays an i111portant part in the system by decoying the oppo.--;ing defense a~vay from Kiley. Against Iowa ·this. trio. corn­pletcd 13 passes for 23'5 y3~·ds, wh!le_the H~~''k·: eyes made but one pass for eight yards. Three Notre Dame ·passes in succession were good for 70 yards and the fourth was ambitiously in search of the Iowa goal_ when the whistle blew 
Tor the first half. 
Purdue and Nebraska were beaten . without the pass _·b~t it was used exten~iv'ely against Indiana. The Notre Dame game against Army and. Rutgers was a veritabl_e passing show, unanimously considered the greatest .exposition of_ the aerial game ever seen on any gridiron. M9hardt has few equals as a passer and has been the best running back on the te:nn throughout the year. 
Kiley· is considered by many autl~orities to stand alone as a receiver of the 1:>a:ss. He catches the ball like a baseball and takes it out of the air · frorh any angle.. He Is a. hai·d m·ait to down· after :receiying th_e pass .and .has ~cored a touchdown against every team, he has played. a·gainst. _this Eeason. with the:·:excef>tion of Nebraska." Cai)t. Eddie A~de_rson and Kiley are. easily' the be~t. tea·m of ends in th~ count~y, and although _Kiley's work in the east gives-~1im prefer~_nce· the:i"e, Capt. Anderson has. a slight edge in the west;·wherc his ability: to· get ·down under· punts~ cuC into ·a play' and: ·recover fum­bles _·has been a -feature of his game all. -season. AnderEon's '''ork in recovering fumbles after tackling the 1;eceiver of punts was responsible for· the· victory· over Nebraska and figured rna­
. teriully in the win at \Vest Point. ­
Chet "\Vy.nne, track captain and plunging full­back, was .styled ·by' Charli_e Brickley. "the best running back of the year."· Wynne~ who is also_ track cap"tain and a na_tionally known ·hurdler, .has improved greatly. throughout the . scasoii ;:md .has starred in every co~1test of the :_ year. · His ·.work against Nebraska paved . the _\v;:\y for. the single winning ·touchdown. He t\,•icc ran back-the kickoff to mid-field against \Vc.5t Point where he also.:cut _through the line for· 12-yard gains ~mel. took a forward pass for a 4·5-vr:rd ride· ·to a touchdown. llis diving· rcco\rery of aptlSS, line·-p·lunging, and· r~mtting Pgaim;t Rutgers· caused Brickley to·.· class him 
ll.s .. the best running bc:ick·of the_year. · '\\'ynnc 
weighs'. only. 170, and . cornbines ddve . "'ith ·speed. · · 
F 0 0 T B A L L R E 1' IE HT 0 F 1921 
COACH ROCKNE 


To you, Coach Hockne by your initiative~ high ideals and good sportsmanship_ does all Notre .Dame extend their. thanks. The outside world can express its wonder at your accomplish­ments, marvel at your ingenuity an_d condole at their defeats; but we do not wonder, marvel or condole for we know that The TEAM reflects you and your qualities. If we win·, you win for it is you who instill into the team· that never-say-die spirit which invariably wins games. If we lose, we can rest ·well assured that you h:tve done all that is humanly possible to win rnd with this assurance can Notre Dame ever );e proud of her teams and a wizard coach who ·/; 
h:s the courage of his convictions. 
ASSI_STANT COACH HALAS 
In another manner does Notre Dame extend · her thanks to you Assistant Cosch Halas. You rre new to Notre Dame, hut you have adopted her princip"Ies and caught_ l_1er spirit with glad­



dening celerity. Your work is in a greater part hidden from the public gaze; you do not visit the ecenes of our· foreign triumphs but quietly !:leal away and seclude yourself in the stands of Llnother te:tm to gather information which might be useful to Notre D~me. later ·on. By your m:soci~tion, you have· become one of us vnd we th:mk you in conj1,1nction with Coach Ilockne for your untiring efforts and evident fidePty to your ~dopted Alma Mater . 
.....:., 

A LITTLE INSIDE DOPE 
: 
F 0 0 T B A L L I~ E l' IE lV 0 F 1921 




':MAURIE" SMITI-i 
"HONEST" DAVE 
Coaching at Columbia University 
In the world of finance 
· Portland, Oregon . 


F' 0 0 T B A L L R I~ l' IE lV 0 F 1921 

STUDENT :MANAGER To Gene Kennedy falls the honor of All American student manager. This elongated youngster was a student of Purdue before his advent to Notre Dame but he found that the Fightin' Irish institution was more to_ his liking and so he hied hence. During his· first varsity year he 'vas a center on the football team then followhtg the. practice of gridiron warriqrs went out for basketball and made regular:center (~r two. years on the varsity. Seeking other worlds to conquer· he tried hurling. the discus on. the track squad and earned points for his Alma Mater in this sport; _ · Coach Rockne saw in the hard working ·ath­lete, the promising qualities of ri student organ­izer and manager and consequently the present honor was bestowed uilori him. His zeal for work ·was ma1iifested in his pleasant attitude ·to acceptall'details offered him and the subsequent manner in which he execu~ed them has won over the confidence of all those ,\,ith \vhom he comes in contact. This is Gene's last ye~r in school" ·and his unbounded co~rage coupled with his unselfish ideals will ever .remain as a goal for those who follow him. · · 
NOTRE DAME'S NIANYVICTORIES 
The greatest era of sporting activity in· the history. of Notre Dame was brought to an end. with the fade·d football season. Indee-d,· last year's undefeated gridiron campaign _\vas a merry prelude. · . . · . 
The 1921 football season will· stand stark 
· alone as the Jl)OSL prosperous -both from the _ standpoint of sterling competition and from the box office viewpoint in the history of the game. Successive victories over Kalamazoo~ DePauw,· Purdue, Nebraska,· Indi'ana, ·An11y, Rutgers, Has­kell Indians, Marquelle and l\'lichig~n..Aggies merit some word·of ·praise fo·r the gamest bu'rich of athletes that ever stepped on the gridiron.. Approximately one hundred ·;and· fifty ·thousand fans saw Notre Dame in action this season.
,I 
Before the curtain is· ru~g.-·down c·ompletely on 1921 football it might be well to· showerI! 
. rlj praises where commendatimi is due. Dm;ing the : last three months a host· of individuals· have I risen . to heroic h.eigh_ts in their: endeavors .. to · 
achieve glory on the gridirqn.--_No't alone _have the players responded 'vith un~sual success but several coaches have aspired to (ame am~ clasped" hands with that elusive deity. ~ 
During the season that ofiicially ended Thanks-· giving day We find IJlO individuals so· deserving of attention as Knute Rockne, Notre Dame'~ illustrious coach, and "Eddie" Anderson captain of the greatest team that ever represented a western institution, or that was ever molded to· gether at one and the same Lime. 
i· . !ill 
H 
Rockne developed an amazing offense out of light but speedy material. He brought east a team that has never been equaled this season. And he did not rely entirely upon the pile driving force of his machine, but developed the greatest overhead attack that has ever. been seen on a gridiron s-ince the days when Rockne was · a pupil under Harper. 
Rockne's backs had an amazing way of piling through the. forwards ·and to the secondary de­fence. Every man who received the ball started like ·a sprinter. It was astonishing to the on­lookers to see the Notre Dame backs go through . that big Army' line so ·easily, and. the beaufiful work of the backs ii1 performing the Notre 
Dame shift plays. . 
··Notre Dame was fortunate indeed in having 
a captain the calibre of "Eddie" 'Anderson. His 
success as a captain is indisputable. Few leaders 
ever got their personality into their club to such 
good efTeel as Eddie. 
There is one sure bet, and that is-when the Hackmen are fighting, they need bow to no team .in the game~Farewell, men of Notre Dame, your Alma Mater is proud of you. · 
CHEER KING SLAGGERT 
"The personage befitting the crown,"· is a 
phrase which would in a minor degree be fiLLing 
to bestow upon this master of mob psychology. 
AI got much_experience in this art from handling 
m·en in the navy during the late unpleasantness 
when he held down the. bars of an ensign. 
Thanks Lo this training, when he returned to 
Notre Dame and completed his education, he also 
brough_t with him numerous original schemes 
and ideas as to how a college should cheer. 
Heretofore cheering was merely a maller of 
course mid entirely devoid. of system hut lie, 
wjth a superb injection ofpep raised it to an art 
thus in. a material way assisting the different 
teams to fight as they 1iever fought before know· 
ing th:1t the entire institution was behind them; 
HO\V NOTHE DAME GOT ·IT'S NAME A little bit of g<;)ld and bltie fell from the sky one day, . And nestled in a wondrous spot from people far away-Then as the founders saw it and it looked so . sweet alul fair . .They gazed upon its heauly and began to settle there. Then they spi·inkled it with. buildings and the · . seed began to grow; . ~ ­No fairer fruit you ever saw no maller ·where you go. . \Vith rev'rend hands they fashioned it and now with proud _acclaim \Ve call that place our haven for the Sons of Notre Dame. ___:_Hogan '23. 
F 0 0 T B A L L R E 1' I I£ H' 0 F 1921 

F 0 0 T B A L L R E 1'1 E VV 0 F ·1921 

THE WONDER lVIAN · The phrase, "Miracle Man. of 1920" has ·be­come synonymous with Rockne, greatest. among the great mentors who have developed wonder gridiron machines since the days way back in the dusty ages when football and moleskins were originated. Rockne is in reality just the most efficient man in football. He makes the lea£t go the farthest. Who coached the undefeated Notre Dame football teams for the last four seasons. : Who made an All-American of George· Gipp, "Eddie" Anderson, Johnny Mohardt, "Rog'? Kiley and "Buck" Shaw after these men came to Notre Dame with ~o previous football experience to speak of. Who handles the multitudious duties of an athletic director? Knute Rockne and nobody else.. The question is how does he do it? · Person­ality is the answer. Rockne's years· at Notre Dame have been fraught with conspicuous success. The story of Rockne's great work, especially. during :the years when he has had complete charge of athletic afTairs . under the dome, is a story of tireless effort, superhuman energy, and clean sportsmanship. · He modestly attributes to the men who fought the fights for the Gold and Blue· all the glory of Notre Dame's ascent into the bright halls ·of fame; t~e players and _the fans, however, know full well that "Rockmen"' could never be developed without the m~tchless coaching of Knute K. Rockne. 
. WHO SAID IT COULDN'T BE DONE 
At the conclusion of the football season of 1920 Notre Dame was recognized as one of the greatest elevens in the country and George Gipp, proclaimed the greatest star of ·the year, was considered the prime force in the success of the team. 
Without Gipp, Di~ector of Athletics Rockne 
arranged an eleven game schedule for the year 1921 that included Iowa, Purdue, Nebraska, Indiana, \Vest Point and Rutgers within 31 days. The Notre Dame coach was considered the mad man of the gridiron-without another Gipp it simply could not be done. But Rockne went ahead and before the season was half over he found that he had four'Gipp's. 
Johnny lVIohardt, running mate to the All­American last year and co-star with him at West Poiht and Indiana, had been shifted to Gipp's place at left halfback and did all _the passing so intimately connected with. the success of Gipp and Notre Dame in the two-previous seasons. • 
· Gus Desch, world's champion 440 yard hurd­ler, hurled and dogged his way for three count­ers in his first college football game-just watch this man go in 1922. · · 
Chet Wynne, track captain and nationally known hurdler~ took the opening kick-off of the year and raced 80. yards for a touchdown. · Wynne covered himself with glory in the Ne­braska game and also at West Point. He was 
. the lightest. fullback l.n the game. 
Danny Coughlin, who ran 80 yards for a touchdown against the Michigan Aggies in 1920, continued his form in all· the games played this season. He was a marvel to behold in the Indi­ana encounter ·at Indianapolis, time ~mel time again he . tore through the Indiana line and around the ends for gains not less than 30 yards. 
These, and many others. are the men that ·a're making football history for their Alma Mater. 
THE VICTORY MARCH Cheel', cheer for old Notre Dame, \Vake up the echoes cheering her name. Send a volley up on high; · . Shake down the echoes from the sky. ·what though the odds he great or small, , Old Notre Dame will win over all; \Vhile her loyal sons go marching onward to victory. -Shea. 
HAIL! NOTRE DAME \Vhen the close of day has ·come, sweet those memories ring, 
'Round us near are men sincere; to you their · prais.es sing. .T~e golden .sun at God's west gate reflects your 
blue on high; Your colors Alma Mater were never born to die. Hail!·. Notre Dame your glorious fame loyal 
sons uphold; Deep devotion, lasting love, we give, the blue and gold. · Revere we must this sacred trust, forever he thy fame, We offer thee this victory, Alma :Mater, Notre Dame. -Flynn, . '23. 
. I 
F 0 0 T B A L L R E 1' IE .H! 0 F 1921 

OLD SCENES FROM HOMECOMING 
. Notre Dame 28; Purdue 0 
J? 0 0.T 13 A L 1--~. 1~ E l' 1 E HT 0 J? 1921 
GThe (3reatest of Them All 
\Vith the football season· apparently closed N,otre Dame's hot stove le~gue experts· are find­ing ·amusement in looking back over the season and hazarding guesses as to which team could be considered the nation's best. It is probable that a questionnaire circulated among .the stu­
. dents would reveal a surprising unanimity of opinion on this subj_ect. One gloomy clay the gods saw fit to ·frown upon us, with the result that we cannot· dispute the claim of Iowa to the Western Championship, but we do put forth the claim that we have assembled the greatest collection of stars in the country: a:ocl that taken as a team tbey form the most power­ful aggregation in Amerfca. That this is not merely a local opinion is shown ~JY the follow­ing lineup composed of our men who have_ been picked for various all-star teams by experts thi·oughou.t the country: 
L. E.-Kiley (Notre Dam~)~ 
Selected · for All-American by: Phila­delphia Evening Ledger, Newark Evening NC\\•s, Jack Veiock, Henry Farrel; All­Star Learn by 1-fugh Fullerton; Hall of 
_Fame by· Grantland Rice. 
L.· G.-I-1. Anderso~ (No_Lre Dame). 
Selected for All-Am~~ican by Jack 
· V eip.ck, and for the second All-American of Billy Evans; All-Western .(second Le~m):. by Walter Eckersall. 
C.-Mehre (Notre Dame). 
Selected for All-American by Brooklyn Eagle. 
H. G.-Dooley (Notre Dame). 
Selected for Grantland Rice's Hall of Fame. 
R. T.-Shaw (Notre Dame). 
Selected for All-American by Lawrence Perry; All-American by Vincent Engels; Hall of Fame by Grantland Rice.· 
R. E.-E.. Anderson (Notre Dame). 
Selected· for' All-American by: Walter Eckersall, Henry Farrell, Billy Evans (second team); All-Western by: Walter Eckersall, Chicago Herald and Examiner, Norman Ross; All Star Team by: Hugh. Fullerton; Hall of Fame by Grantland Rice. 
L. H.-Mohardt (Notre Dame). 
Selected for ·All-American by \Valter Eckersall (second team); All-\Vestern by: \\Taller Eckersall, Chicago Herald and Examiner. · 
R. H.-Castner (Notre Dame). 
All Star Team by Hugh· Fullerton. 
F.-\Vynne (Notre Dame).' 
Selected for All-American by Philadel­phia Evening Ledger, Newark Evening '1 News, Henry Farrell (second team) ; All­Western by Norman Ross; All-Star teani by Grantland Rice. 
In· addition to these honorary positions, the following Notre Dame men were placed upon the first or second All-State Learns by Blaine Patton, of the Indianapolis Star: 
L. E., Kiley (Notre Dame) ; L. T., Garvey (Notre Dame); L. <;., H. Anderson (Notre Dame) ; R. T., Shaw (Notre Dame) ; H. E., E. Anderson (Notre Dame); L. H., lVIohardL (Notre Dame) ; F., Wynne (Notre .Dame) ; Q., Grant (Notre Dame). 
-The Scholastic, by .G. Hagan . 

. ' 
J? 0 0 T B A L L .1~ ~ l' I I~ lV 0 F 1921 
NOTHE DAME ON THE GIUDIHON 
PrrEss CoMMENT 
This is Notre Dame's Thirty-third football sea-· son . \Ve started the game in 1887, losing to Nlichi­gan 8 to 0. · Since then we have played 231 games, winninrr0 178, losing 37 and tying 16. 
Notre Dame to date has scored 6365 points to he! ·opponents 104.0. This proves. the constant quality of our elevens. 
Notre Dame had eleven ·undefeated seasons. The Notre Dame scoring record was made in 1905 against the American Medical Collerre of 
• ' 0
Chicago, 14.0 to 0. . Our worst beating was at the hands of Wis­consin in 1904. when they walloped us 58 ·to 0. In 1912 Notre Dame scored 389 points to their opponents' 27. This record stands to date. Notre Daine won the State championship for Itt. years. Nebraska has ~een beaten in four of seven r;an1es, one was a Lie. 
In twelve battles with Purdue for the Stale 
Litle we have won seven, lost three and Lied two 
games. 
We have also battled with Indiana on twelve 
occasions, resulting in seven games won, four 
lost and one tied. 
Notre Dame's first invasion of the East was in 
1909 when "Red" Miller's ·team walloped Pitts­
burgh, 6 to 0. · Since that time 16 other invasions 
of the East, thirteen notable victories,· three cle­
f eats and one tie game. . · 
Notre Dame's victi.ms in the East, include the 
Army on six occasions, Pittsburgh twice, with 
one tie, Penn State, Syracuse, Carlisle and 
Hutgers. 
Invading the ,South, the Gold and Blue has 
presented a perfect record of three victories in 
three games played. The undefeated Texas 
"Longhorns" fell twice and Rice Institute fell 
by a 55 to 2 score. Some Record. 
BEST BUILT MAN IN THE UNIVERSITY. 
Buck Shaw, right tackle, is the last serious Notre Dame contender for national honors. The big tackle uses to advantage. in the line the strong . right arm which ·earned him · the Litle of conference champion ·shot putter and the magnificent physique which awarded to him 
a medal for being the best buill m:m in the 
university. ·His 182 pounds are so ev.enly dis­
tributed that ·he eombine3 m~ximum strength 
with speed-and he has ·used this ideal combi­
nation· with deadly skill throughout the season. 
Iowa gained little through "Shaw's side of the f 
line and the big fellow . broke-through on sev­
eral occasions to throw Aubrey Devine for 
losses. 
Against the superb Nebraska· line which 
shoved Pitt all over Forbes field, Shaw was a mountain and the Cornhuskers were so thoroughly outcharged .and outplayed that they made. but two first downs through the Notre . Dame forward wall. Shaw backed both sides of the line, blocked kicks, hurried passers, threw the Cornhuskers back for several losses ~f eight .yards· and· was down under punts just a shade behind Capt. Anderson. He continued his perfect play at West Point and the Polo Grounds. In addition to his multiple threat· at tackle Shaw is also one vf the most successful goal kickers of the year, having kicked· 34· of 
a possible 35 goals after touchdowns·. 
Paul Castner, second string halfback, who 
was the individual star of the Rutgers game 
where he ran 4.5 yards for a touchdown on the 
second play, drop-kicked 42 and 47 yards in 
Lwo allempls, averaged 55 yards on punts and 
went down and LackJed· his man after 'kicking. 
ofT; is a I so a clever passer and will make a 
strong bid for high honors next season when 
the team will he built around him as it was 
around Gipp last year and Mohardt this season. 


FOOTBALL _1~/~l'IEH! 0 ]l 1921 
UJhat The Papers Sal] 
Clipped Comments 
-seen in adion. I ·have not had the pleasure of seeing
-"I see· be the pa-apers," said Mr. Hennessy, 
Nebraska, !own, Ohio St11te or California. Concerning"that ivrybody but some o' the Chicago '\\'Tithers them I t•an speak only as to reports made to me hy fellows who ha\"e watched them. · 
says this Nothre Dame has a r-rare team." In my. opinion Notre Dame iii the· greatest football te11m in the eountry, with JJafnyette se<•ond, Penn Stnte third,"So they. ar-re," said lVIr. Dooley. "But it's lJCrhaps Cornell fourth, although Cornell hn!i had too easy a schedule to he judged ns good us its record shows.
nathural t'im. Did ve iver see an Irishman 
P1•nn Stato hns been scored on so often us to reveal thothat wasn't a clivver" fighter? The. whole o' fnct that its defense is pregnable. Cornell has 11 wealth of material, a lot of drh·c and runs
em have been fightin' f'r cinturies f'r their in­· its i1lnys well, hut it is impossible to rate it up with Penn State, 'Lafayette or Notre Dnmc because its weak schedule
dependence frim the onreasonable John Bull, 
did not show its possibilities or perhaps re\'eal its weak·an' they've had plinty enough o' practisin'. nesscs. Penn State is one of the three really tcan111
~:rent ·r hn \'e seen. Exceptin~: Lafayette, it has more sheer power
Compatithion is their pie. Faith, hev ye iver 
in attnek. 
seen taims that could aisy be baitin' sich as Laf11yette, for sheer power, stren~:th and defensive strcn~th, lends them nil. I I Holy Cross, Boston~ .Marquette, Daithroit an' \\'hich brings us_ to Notre Dame which I consider (rc· member, you only ha\"C my opinion) the strongest and most
Nothre Dame? The schools they lnte are big­
resourceful-team, with the grcntcst wealth of material, the ger 'n thim, but Ireland is 'andicapped by most mohil'e style of attack, the most di\'ersified lot of talent in the ·country. Thi!!i team can run, forward pn11s,England too." kick nnd plunge. It hns yielded fewer first downs to op· poncnts than any team in the country, and Jlrohnbly"This here pa-aper," said Mr. Hennessy, gained more ground thnn any other tcnm. That it woul<l heat IJaf11ycttc I feel certnin, for you must remember that
"seys ~omethin' prithy complimenthary." With 
these two piny entirely different foothnll. In fi~urin~: it, do ·hundreds of others he·passed it over. From not figure the score against Army. Notre Dame nnd Army pluyed shortened periods. Hnd the game been full length,some, as acknowledgments are bowed to Fin­Notre Dame could ha\'c won' hy 30 ndditionul points nt 
ley Peter Dunne for the appearance of his 
lcn:~t. The\' 1111\'l' fi\'C men on the team who are as good ns th~ 
two characters, these are selected: men \\;ho will he <'hosen for AII·Amcri!'an this fall. and two who probably will he chosen. The)' ha\'e two men on tho sCJund as fast ns Prcnch was (one faster). 'rlwy ha\'e a forward passer who shoots n foothall ns if 11egdn~: a hnse·
(N. Y. Herald) 
hall. and two great men in Kiley and Anderson, who cnn BY DANII~JJ t•nfl·h it in the same way. ' · Concei\'nhly. if Lafayette •·ot the hull nnd hJtmnwrc!l
Dazzling forward !ll\So;cs working oi1t of dehuling-eriss· 
and hnmmer!'!l nnd ne\'!~r ~n\'t' it llll the ho~·s from the
erosses nnd line feints, hnfllin~ jumps shifts which !"arried 
Hilltop would have a t•hanl"e, hut Rol'kne hns the hotterthe h1u·ltt> throu~h with lr<'mendous momentum and wrou~ht team.
havoe e~·!•n·whcre-the~;e stood out in the eflidem•y with 
You wanted n ·frank cx·Jiression. ::\fr. Trailer, nnd therewhi<'h a tri1ly great footlmll team from Notre lJame o\'er· 
it is. The mystery to me is how Town e\·er heat thnt team
whelmed a ~reen, hlunderin~ Rutgers ele\·en hy 48 to 0 at without. the usc. of n ~:as attn!'lt.
the Polo Gromuls yesterday arternoo!l. 
(Indianapolis' Star) (Detroit l<'ree Press) 
Is the ·Notre Dame ele\·en a !~otter tPnm than tin• one BY GRANTI;AND RIC!~ whic·h represented the upstnters last season 1 This is n uuestion that has been )lilt to tll'c writer on se\"£'rnl occn·
New York, No\', !H.-As the football situation mo\·es \\"estward it becomes simplified. 
sions. It is our opinion that Ro!·kne's tcnm this season is superior in many respects to the one of ·1920, . It i!l
In the ::\fiddle \\'est, Iowa ttnh·ersih· stands out nho\'e the fold, \\'ith Notre Dame only a span lJChind;·undouhtf'dly 
minus the ser\'ices of the mi~ht~· star-Geor~e Gipp-lmt ns stron~: now ns the team which heat them 10 to 7 on with ele,·en
for co-ordination and ele\'en·mn•• nhilib·. an•l October 8. · 
men in e\·ery piny. it excels. Neither the offense nor the defense is centered around unv one man. At the llresent writing it is extremeh· doubtful if any ele•·cn in the United(Newslmper Enterprise Asso.) 
l=Hatcs could defeat the Notre Dame outfit.· It is n team BY BILIJY J~VANS that is 11 rredit to the Hoosier state in e'"eQ' respect nnd made up of high·clnss men from end to end.
Xew York, No\·. 16.-"Notre Dame has one of the great· t'st football teams I have seen in years. It is 11 much 
(New York World)better team than Yale, Hnr\'nrd or Princeton. I would like 
nothin~ better than to h:l\'e $100,000 on Notre Dame in n BY DAVID .T. WAIJSH
series in which the western team would meet Yale, Han·urd and Princeton.'' Sueaking at the nnnunl Rut~ers foothnll lunl"heon nt the 
That is the way Tneks Hurdwi<'k. former Hnn·urd star, Jndln House yesterday. Geor~e Foster SJtnford. head co'lch. sizes up the Notre Dnme tcnm, which h11s taken the east ...xnressed the opinion that !tis tP<>itt h11d a chnnce to l>£'nt hy storm. Durin~ the intermission between the Yale· Notre Dame in the im11ending Elcetion Day ~:amc nt the Princeton s:nn1e, Hardwick dropped in the press box to Poln GroundR. flay hello. I was sittin~ in the midst of 11 ,:rroup of New Joseph Byrne. who spoke for .Notre Dnme, was extrn\'n· York sportin~: writers. all footh11ll experts. E\·ery one of ga1•t in his praise of Knutc Roclwc as 1111111 nnd conch. them snid "Amen" to H11rdwiek's opinion. ''Tlu~re has been se\'ernl things tl111t h•n·<' !•ontrihuted 
Enstern critics nrc n~reed that Penn State is the hest to our football success hut in the m'lin the answer narrows team in the cnst. ::\[ost of them nrc of the opinion th11t rlown to Rockne,'' he deelared. ''As 11 <·oneh, no one will Notre D11me hus 11 slight edge on Penn. Howe\'er, all nrc deny thnt he is one of the ~:realest i•t the r•ountn·. He sorry the two teams are not ,:roin~ to meet. It has heen I'Omhines football horsr scn~:e with wide vision nnd rare suggested ·that Notre Dame and Penn State piny a JlOSt intelligence. Further than thnt. his word is law. There season game nt the Polo Grounds. nrc some 1.465. students on the Notre Dame cnm1H111 nnd 
they are nll with Rodwe to n mnn. 
(N. Y. Tribune) ''And why not 1 Here is n mnn wholly wrnpncd up in the l"ame nnd his team. Not only does lw conch the plnyer11
BY HUGH S. PULIJER'l'ON on the field, hut he lmys their railroad tickets and meals, ''\rhich team, in your opinion, considered as a 'I'I~ AM, is looks to the transnortntion of hn~~-nge. He even hnnd11 
the hcst in football this season? ench player his suit heforc. the gnmo nnd tnl•es it hack ",J. AJJIJJ~N TRAILER", ngn in after the t:"nme is O\'er." The spenlter intimated that Notre Dnme l111d iust n.c; fine 
::\[r. Trailer asks a CJuestion whicli is calculated to start 11 tenm ns lust .venr, when it ranked with the· lJCst in tho something which neither he nor I can finish satisfactorily. Potmtry. And this in spite of the fnct that the late GeorgeI cnn nnswer only concerning tho football teams I have Gipp nnd several other stars nrc no longer available, 
)c 
......_. _...._.,. _______ .-·~-----­
--~~­
FOOTBALL R.E 1' IE 1¥ OF 1921 
(Pittsburg Press) (Evening Sun, New York) 
BY WESTBROOK PEGJ,Jm United News Staff Correspondent 
Castner, right halflmck for the Blue team, slipped ar~uud left end, going like an engine to a thrcc·alarrn fire, and . whirled across Rutgers' goal for the first touchdown. 
Castner went through the entire Rutgers team arid flashed hy the men on secondary defense so fast and with so much room that~ they were spared C\'cn the jar of hurling th\!rnsclvcs in his general direction. 
WA.NT ANOTHE~ GA~U<: 
New York woulu like very much now to sec the Iown team against, say the pick of Yale, Princeton and Harvard, considl.'ring that Iowa defeated Notre Dame. Or Notre Dame against Penn State which showed here a little more than a wci!k ago i.Jt a burlesque victory over the Golden Tornado from Georgia Tech. 'l'hc westerners. have some· thing in the way of football that eastern teams seem to have not. They not only hurl forwartl passes in pretty arcs· hut they catch them and hang onto them more times than not. 
.Notre . Dame opened up after the second half began.There was no ·necessity for bruising the men by asking them .to . carry the ball. And pass after pass was com· plctcd for 15, 20, 30 yards, the only difficulty being that the officials were unusually scrupulous in watching Notre Dame for off·side during the execution of the Notre Dame shift. In this manner Notre Dame lost enough ground to make another twq or· three touchdowns. 
DESCH cm.ms THROUGH In the third period Coach Rockne of Notre Dame, sent in a frightened deer by the name of Desch, none other than Gus Desch, the world's champion 440 hurdler. It was explained by Notre Dame ho~·s in the Jlrcss coop that Rockne hasn't made very free usc of this Desch boy he· cause the track coach docsn' t want him used up or murrcd in such rough work as plunging or tackling. Hand him the hall from n formation, though, show him a hole the size of a B. B. shot, let him alone and then watch· him go. Desch run left end for 45 yards on the very first play after he was sent in. It seemed almost unfair to use a man so fast as he against men so slow as the Rutgers fellows, yet they aren't so awfully much slower than the· average college team. Desch would outrun almost anybody in football. Again they gave him the hall and he carried it for 50 yards, and on a third· sprint, he made 35, simply by out· running the Red chargers plunging behind and converging 
on him. · 
After one glimpse of 'this famous 'Vcstcrn team that has been defeating the Army year after year for so many years, New York woitld like to see some more against a big three team if possible. ­
SUPERB BACKFIELD When the Indiana. backfield wasn't aiding and abctqngin the manufacture of successful passes, it was runmng the 100 around and in 10 flat. It was one of the swiftest sets of hacks seen in the East this season. · Just by way of variety, "'ynne and Castner, wlto each had made 50~yard runs for touchdowns; kicked a field goal
apiece. · 
(Indianapolis Star) 
In the game at 'Vashington park Saturday an outstand· ing feature was the manner in which the Notre Dame war· riors rallied to the assistance of the man who obtained possession of the .coveted leather. This was true whether a regular signal was called, a kick-off rccch·ed, a pass in· tcrceptcd or a fumble picked up. Eleven men in every play is the way Coach Rockne has his men workin~. The head· long diving interference, which is far more effective than a straight·arm delivered by the player carrying the ball, was in evidence· at all times so far ns the Notre Dame offense was concerned. A running, pushing, half-hearted inter· ference discounts offense fully 50 per cent or more. 
(The Wake, Chicago Tribune) 
Notre Dame has played an even fifty games since 1916, losing four. It has scored 1,550 points to opponents' 197. l•'unny thing I noticed in the dope book, Har\'ey, is that aside from Purdue and Indiana conference teams seem content .to play Notre Dnme just once. "'onder if Iowa will take another crack at the '.'Fighting Irish" next season 7 
Gil. 
·(New York Evening Sun) 
And now Notre Dame. most' prominent sectarian eleven in the "'est, is pointed this way to tackle Army at "'est Point to·morrow, and Rutgers at tho Polo Grounds next Tucs· day. The Kellys, Burkes and Shcas of the gridiron care nothing for distance when assured .of a warm lmttle. 
'l'hose who saw Notre Dame in .action saw a great foot· hall team. Rockne probably is the foremost exponent of the open game now conching. Besides which he is a fine all around· conch. Notre Dame "floats" its }lasses. They are all passes to a certain definite man. Other men aro sent out as decoys and the direction of the play is fre· qucntly masked by the crossing over of the ends. Re· peatcdly the left end took .a long pass over the right end of the line. The 'Vesterncrs have so many variations from similar formations that oven when the general idea of the play is known it is almost impossible to break it up. The passes ·are of all lengths and made in all portions of the field.· When they are mixed with a fine nmning and kicking attack, as they arc, it may he seen what the de· fending team has to contend with. · 
H. Anderson is Notre Dame's star guard, lmt againstRutgers it ·was Dooley who did the most spectacular work of the three centre men, 
Desch, who played pvrt of the game in the backfield for tho South Bend eleven, is the Olympic sprinter and hurd· lcr. Even in a football suit he is a flash .of light. 
Shaw, Kiley and Castner of Notre Dame would be wei· come additions to any eleven. We have seen few better ilrop kickers than Castner, and he can do about everythingrequired of a back. 
We certainly would like to sec a battle between Notre Dame and Penn State. It would he a case of two fine scoring machines pitted against each other and should he u thrilling game to watch. 
Knute Rockne pulled a new one on the oflicials in the 
·Notre Dame-Rutgers game. When they accused him of coaching from the side lines he stoutly maintained that hew nterely had been talking to himself. 
(India~apolis Star) Editorial OUR GREAT FOOTBALL MACHINE 
· Re~ardlcss of university afliliations the Hoosier takes pride in the achievements of the Notre Dame football team, now returning to its home grounds after a successful in· vasion of the East, which included a brilliant victory over the Army team and a one·sidcd romp over the Rutgerseleven. The Big Three of the East may isolate themselves behind a wall of prestige and the Big Ten of the "'est look with supercilious eye upon those institutions which do not have the privilege of membership, if .it may.· be re· gardcd as such, but the real comet dashing across the national football horizon is the team from South Bend. 
Coach Rockne's men have traveled East year after yea·rwith a dazzling assortment :of forward pusses and trick plays mingled with the old-style smashes until Eastern 
• critics have growri accustomed to expect the unusual when· e\'er Notre Dame appears. It is seldom that they are dis· appointed. Tho precision with which Notre Dame handles the forward pass and the ability to use it for consistent gains are almost uncanny in comparison with the uncer· tainty which accompanies its use by tho average team. The Rockne clan also executes its plays with a speed which often makes nn opponent appear unusually slow. In addi· tion to this mechanical perfection the players have im· hibcd a spirit of aggressiveness and bull-dog tenacity tlmt has repeatedly snatched victory out of apparent defeat. 
(N. Y. Tribune) 
But we never heard of a weak Notre Dame, and neither ltas the Army. Notre Dame usually comes ~caring out of tho 'Vest with all tho vibrant ener17y of a highly annoyedcyclone, lcnving little but debris m its forward passingwake. 
(N•. Y; Herald) A slender-hipped halfback ·named Castner was the in· dividunl star of this football mixture. He first showed his· mettle by romping half the distance of the field for tho first Hoosier touchdown. In the fourth period he scored another after a brisk run around tho left wing and down the sideline. But these contributions were as nothingcompared with the drop-kicking that this slim youngsterproduced for the benefit of the New York crowd. Charley Brickley was in the press box watching the pro·cecdings, and oven Charley was never more ·graceful or n'onchalant than Castner in booting a drop-kick between the uprights. Castner had only one opportunity, and it came with the bnll on the 45-yard line in the second quar· · tcr after Notre Dame had got tho ball on an intercepted forward pass. A forward pass hit the ground and then Castner fell back and, with all the ease and briskness of a kicker in a private workout, lifted a field goal over the crossbar from· the •16-yard line. Tho kick sailed squarely between the posts. 
FOOTBALL REl'IEHT OF 1921 
(New .York World) 
BY :\IONITOR 
\Vest Point, N. Y., Nov. 5.-Talk al10ut the· Golden Tornado, tlie Big Red Storm aml the New Ha,·en Hurri· cane I The South lhmd Cyclone, the Notre Dame football squad, hit \Vest Point this afternoon and blew the Army eleven right off the reservation. 'rhe team that must face 1a,he Navy three weeks from to-day was beaten 28 to 0, and badly beaten. The Army made only one first down, com· pletcd only one forward ·pass, was out·kicked and out­tricked ·from start to finish and in general made to look like a schoolboy aggregation by the Hoosier Hustlers. 
Outside of the first quarter, the cadets, playing on their own field before a crowd of 5,000, never had a chance. They struggled gamely, hut they couldn't match wits with the smooth gentlemen from Indiana. They protested that the "shift" which started a hullling hluff at a criss-cross, then de\·eloped into a fon\•ard pass, by which Notre Dame scored three of its four touchdowns, \\'as ille~al. 'rhe officials couldn't see anything wrong and allowed the play. But even had the shift been abandoned \Vest Point couldn't have won, for the Army offense was 'very poor, and the \\'estcrners scored one real, honest-to-goodness touchdown by straight football. 
It's an old maxim of baseball that you can't win without runs, and by the same token you can't win in football without points. 'rhe Notre Dame goal ne\·er was in danger, and while there may be some justice in the contention of :\Iajor Charles D. Daly and other \Vest .Point conches that the Indiana shift starts with men in motion, contrary to the rules, still the Army men must invent some way of scoring for themselves, legal or illegal, before they can expect to take a team like the \Vabash \Vnllopers into camp-to say nothing of the Navy. 
Take it from Bill \\'allacc, Notre Dame student, who came here on the brake beams of passenger trains and by side·door Pullmans so that he might bet his carfare both ways on the game, this South Bend outfit is SO:\IE · 
•team. 1\Iohardt, \Vynnc, Kiley, Gar\·ey, Castner, Eddie Anderson, and ''Hunk'' Anderson-they're all heroes. That's about the way they shone to·dny. with Brother Shaw doing some noble tackling and booting four goals out of four. He's missed just one out of thirty-one tries this yea!, says \Yallace of the brake beams. 
KILEY A PASS EXPERT ,Kiley is the best catcher of forward passes seen around these parts this year. He's tall and slim, all arms and reach. He grabbed a lot from ::t\Iohardt to·day and made touchdowns out of two. He's Captain of the basketball team and second baseman of the baseball team. \\'ynne, who also catches forward passes nnd can g-o through the line, is a hurdler. ''That bird can go the high in 15s, the low in 25!!,'' volunteered \Vallace. He ·was going ''on hir.h'' all this afternoon. ~Iohardt is a fine pass flinger· and a pretty end runner. Castner showed skill in weaving his way through broken fields. He's only a "sub" hack, but he helped a lot to· day. Coughlin was another. ·smart ground gainer, while Garvey and H .. Anderson did deadly tackling and E. An· dcrson was n live wire in reco\·ering fumbled halls. 
(New York Tribune) 
RAY :\IcCARTHY Last year the westerners came east with a player named George GiJ•p, who pro,·ed to be not only a sensation, hut one of the greatest backs ever. seen on the Plains. Gipp has since died. Notre Dame had no back in its lineup to·day who was the equal of that great performer, hut in little Johnny ~Iohnrdt, it exhibited a· fast, shifty hack, who threw forward passes with nccurncy. Seldom, when called upon, did ~Iohardt miss his aim. His pusses did not carry the speed nor the zip that Gipp's did, but they were wonderfully nccurute and thrown with rare judgment. Three of Mohnrdt's passes hurled n distance of 25 yards and more Wl.'re converted into touchdowns. and se,·cral otherR wcut through for long gains. In all, .Mohnrdt threw about 10 passes which were good.for a total of 170 yards. Of course, Mohardt had to have excellent us!<i3tnnce on the receiving end in making these pusses go through, and he ~rot that help from Kiley, Anderson und \V~nne. '!'he rc· ccivers, in fact, deserve fully as much credit .for the sue· cess of these pusses as docs Mohnrdt. Kiley plucked the flying oval with case and grace and \Vynnc showed ex· ('eptional ability not only in handling passe:s, hut in run· nin~ throu;h the line. However, E. Anderson was the boy who aided as much as anyhody in making the forward pass game ·of Notre ·Dame successful. He was down the field like a flash. dc\'crly a<'tin~; the part of the receiver. He ne,·cr did get his hands on the btLll, but he succeeded in his dcshm of ' drawing the Army defense t.:> him and of tlllowin~ his teammates, Kiley nnd. \Vynne, n clear path for receiving the pnss. His deception in this respect was flawless. It must not be thought-that Notre Dame won simply be· cause of its skill in working the forward pass. The wes· tcrners <lisplaycd u fine, well-drilled eleven that outplayed 
the Cadets in all de]mrhncnta. '!'he forwards eha1·ged the 
Army line and opened huge gaps, through which Wynne 
und other backs, but Wynne m particular, drove through 
with tremendous speed und }10\\'el'. On defense those 
same forwarcls were always on the joh. 'rhe Cadets Wl'rl' 
practically powerless to gain throu~h the visiting line. 
'!'hey made only two first downs and hoth of these came 
in the last few minutes of }Jiay. 
Shuw, the well built tackle of the Notre Dame team, 
was the outstanding star on dcfcilse. He knocked the Army 
hacks down with a crush whcnc\·er they attempted to }Jile 
through· his sid£'. He towered over the others like a giant 
and was always in the thick of the fray, smearing the: 
piny almost hc!ore it got started. 
(New ·York American) ­
BY AR'l'HUR ROBINSON Notre Dame comes out of the \Vest Saturday to )Jlay the Army at \Vest Point, and Knutc Hockne, the Notre Dame couch, will turn up the cuffs of his shirt and show that he has nothing in his hands and nothing up his sleeves. He will then prohahly conjure a bowl of gold fish out of the thin air or else come forth with u rabbit wriggling from one hand and the fln.:;s of all nations fluttering from the· other. But it is most likely that he will perform n football trick which hus never heen done in the East he· fore. . '!'he modernists among the football couches arc like magicians in the sense that they arc always resorting to deception on the playing field, but among the modernists there are only a few who dare to explore new football fields of endeavor. Rockne is one of these, and his specialty is the forward pass. _As an undergradute seven or eight years ago Rockne. played end for Notre Dame und constitutecl one·hnlf of what was probably the greatest of all forward passing combinations. The other half was Dorais, who played quarterback. The forward pass was in its infancy then, and between them Rockne and Dorais did more to popularize the play than even the members of the rules committee, who real­ized that some changes in the game were vital. The old school of football coaches frowned upon the play and declined to take· it up seriously.-Then Notre Dame came East, und Rockne and Dorais amazed students of the. game by. the manner in which they used the play. The Army, which had one of the strongest teams herea­bouts, was beaten by the score of 35 to 13. hut largely us the result of that defeat, the Army heat ~he Navy by the score of 22 to 9. Rockne and Dorais opened the eyes of the Army conches, and the Army accepted the sour with the sweet. '!'he Army learned its lesson, and the Army particularly learned how to use the ·forward pu:-;s. Rockne .and Dorais, the cadets found, were excellent teachers, and ~Icrillat and Pritchard, Army quarterback and end, quickly developed into a for· ward passing combination quite as good as the \Y~stcrners. 
(Chicago Herald-Examiner) To·day 20,000 spectators saw Rutgers overwhelmed, 48 to 0, at the Polo Grounds hy Notre Dame, a team of wes· tern giants, who ran with the spcc:d of the north wind and plowecl through the human flesh with the emotion of so many stone-drilling drivers. Rutgers was outclassed. Notre Dame had Castner, a halfback who kicked with his left leg and twice kicked field goals from close to midfield. Once he broke away for a 50-yard run for a touchdown. And so did the other Notrc·Damc hacks-\Vynnc, Coughlin and Desch, a cham· pion hurdler. Mohardt, said to· be the best of Notre Dame'R backs­confined hiR n«:tivities almost. entirely to forward passing. Or perhaps he wus just merciful. At any rate, he limitcJ his runs to less than twenty-five yards when he did run with the hall. 
('r!Je New York Times) 
Notre Dame was expected to display all its old wares. It did not disappoint. The South Bend eleven was good a year ugo with the immortal George Gipp. To·day it had j\lohardt, a worthy successor. It also had \Vynne, Cough­lin, Kiley and a host of others, all of whom shone 1Jril· liantly. It was good uguin to-day, better than e\·cr, if that were possible. 
The Army's attempts to stop the spcedv Hoo!licrs Wt're futile. ~lohardt hurled pusses to Kiley with almost reck· less abandon. The Hoosier end was 11 demon in }licking the hall out of the air. Long passes for 20 to 30 yards followed the lust half and held the spectators breathless. It reminded old timers of the line work of Dorins and Rockne of the Notre Dame eleven of 191:1. It was truly a wonderful eleven whi1·h Rockne brought here to-day, pow­erful on attl!.ck and mighty in its defensive. 
BY RING W. I~ARDNER New York, Oct.-The -ninth game will be played at the Polo Grounds between Rutgers and Notre Dame. This was decided last night at n meeting of Judge Landis and the presidents or tlt~ ri\·nl leagues. who have hcen in (·hargc of the series since Ruth got hurt. 




.•«*tr:..'i 
aiDegcbolastic 
DISCE- QUASI-SEMPER- VICTURVS- VIVE - QUASI- CRAS- MORITVRVS 
Entered as Second Class Mail Matter Published Every Saturday During the School Year. 
Vol. LV. FOOTBALL NUMBER, 1921 No. 13 
TURNING IN THE SUITS—A BRIEF REVIEW OF THE SEASON. FRANK WALLACE. 
NOTHER football season has passed 
—another year has gone^a year 
in which the boys of the land and 

the coaches of the land and the educators of the land have enjoyed their yearly virtuous spree of sport. It is over now—and who sits upon yonder throne se­rene and proud? Gosh—'tis our own Notre Dame. 
Can you beat it? 

Each fall we watch them drop in from Norton, Kas., and here and there in Iowa— just ordinary looking chaps who have picked Notre Dame in preference to bigger schools —even as you and I. They go out on Cartier field where an ordinary-looking person named Rockne takes them in charge and con­vinces the surrounding blades of grass that this gang is terrible. They go out and smash and bang and slice and crash and run and pass for a few months—^when lo, and behold—once more we find them sitting on the world—^the toast of Broadway—and of Hughie Fullerton. 
Just a scrubby-looking crowd who move around the campus and come late for class— even as you and I; just an ornery-looking gang that can yell and bellow in the trees or loll in their subway beds—even as you or whoever else's prefect will permit: Just an inquisitive crowd that are always snooping around the telegraph offices with a "what's the dope on the game"—even as you and I. This, my friends; the country has conie to this. How do they do it—these Lochinvars who annually^ steal the Soldiers' bride—these Cinderellas who win the favor of the public from their conference step-sisters who are all bedecked with pretty press notices? 
They live right, they have a good coach and they like each other. They are big kids who like to play football and Rockne teaches them how to play it correctly. They pass because it is easier than to buck a line. They have beef—speed—^brains—^and intellect. And while others look upon the game as a highly complicated affair that requires men and coaches—^Rockne and his gang go out on .Cartier field for a little fun every night and then go out and upset the world. 
SEPT. 24—NOTRE DAME 56; KALAMAZOO 0. Chet Wynne lost no time in disclosing his intentions toward the season by returning the first ball pitched by the Kazooks through the entire opposing team for 80 yards and a touchdown. Buck Shaw made the occasion truly historic by chalking up' the first goal of his season's mark of forty. Danny Coughiin turned in a 35 yard run which was converted intb a touchdown by Thomas. Mo­hardt, Lieb and Coughiin circled the ends for long gains and Wynne made tJie next score. De;§ch and Wynne ploughed through for big gains and Thomas sneaked through once more. Gus Desch came back strong and scored, on a straight dash of 15 yards. The second team went in and Rease chalked up another marker. In the second half the first string went in orce more and Johnny Mohardt scored two touchdowns after runs of 30 and 40 yards. Mohardt shot the first of t^e Notre Dame passes which were to become famous and Capt. Eddie made a pretty catch for a 35 yard gain. The third team went in and the game slowed up considerable after which a rain began to fall and everybody was g^ad . when the session was over. Every man oh the team starred witii Mohardt, Desch and Wynne dividing honors. It was a wonderful start and everybody was pepped up for a bigsieason. ^ 
'^& Hocre dome dchdascic 
E. ANDERSON—KANE—SEYFRIT—DEGREE—REASE 
OCT. 1—NOTRE DAME 56; DEPAUW 10. 

Depauw came entirely surrounded by mys­tery—and Rockne's men took the mist from the mystery in a big hurry. Mohardt was the big star of the game with Wynne and Desch continuing to figure very strongly in the scoring. Danny Coughlin took a shoe in the head on the third play and was carried from the field. 
Depauw had a game team and later de­veloped into a powerful secondary outfit but except for a few moments in the early part of the game and in the final quarter when Rockne's third string was performing, the Tigers were not so good. Clark took a blocked kick and ran 70 yards through a clear field for a touchdown and Bloodgood kicked a field goal for the enemy's 10 points, all of which came in the final quarter. 
Johnny Mohardt started the fireworks for Notre Dame hy tearing off 25. Thomas made the touchdown. Chet Wynne came to vi­brant life a moment later and tore like a Kansas cyclone for a run of 60 yards through the mystery team. A pass from Mohardt to Kiley, a run by Johnny and Chet went ovei* again. A bit later Gus Desch dashed madly for 65 yards and another score and Johnny Mohardt added another touchdown on a 35 yard run. 
At the beginning of the second half Johnny Mohardt intercepted a pass and did a Paul Revere for 70 yards and a touchdown. Later Johnny passed 35 to Rodge and the long end completed the first Mohardt to Kiley play which was to make the Army look sick a few weeks later. Rock sent the second and then the third team into the game and we made one more touchdown when Lieb passed to Seyfrit. 
OCT. 8—IOWA 10; NOTRE DAME 7. 

Full of pep and confidence Rockne took his gridders to Iowa City the following week and encountered a spirit of depression in the Hawkeye City. The western team's support-
H. ANDERSON—LIEB—CARBERRY—REAGAN—FELTESr-MAYL 
1S^ Hacre bame Schokisric 
COUGHLIN—McDERMOTT—SMITH—DESCH—GILLIGAN—SHAUGHNESY 
ers expected a 14-0 defeat and told it out loud; Then when the game began Aubrey Devine and Locke plunged our line and ran the end for a touchdown. The line held bet­ter after the next kickoff and A. Devine booted the field goal which meant everything to Notre Dame and Iowa throughout the rest of the season and we don't know how many years to come. 
The backs came back strong. Mohardt circled right end for the longest run from running formation of the game—18 yards— and 'Danny Cpughlin and Wynne added good gains. • Everything was going lovely when the referee penalized us 15 and broke up the march. 
Steady gains by Mohardt, Chet and Panny took the ball to the Iowa 25 yard line, as the Quarter ended and Johnny passed to Eddie who was downed on the-Iowa 5 yard line. In three downs we didn't take it past the one-yard line and the last attempt, a pass, was intercepted back of the goal line by Locke who ran it 40 yards to mid-field. The boys started all over again and Johnny passed 20 to Rodge who ran it 30 yards for a touch­down. That was all of the scoring. Just before the second half ended Mohardt shot three consecutive passes to Kiley, Grant and Kiley, which were good for 70 yards. Iowa was flustered but the whistle saved them. 
Iowa threatened again in the second half following an intercepted pass by Devine, and ran to the local 6 yard line where the line held. We took the ball back* to our own 28 yard line from where Paul Castner made his first appearance of the season and'punted 70 yards. Iowa was on the defensive through­out the ]'emainder of the game. Grant and Coughlir and Lieb ran the ball to the Iowa 8 yard line as the quarter ended. Iowa took the ball on downs at the beginning of the fourth quarter but was completely stopped from gaining. Castner missed a 50 yard try for a field goal by 5 yards. Iowa punted to midfield and passes by Mohardt to Kiley and 

^':'r^mm^^m''w£-Am:s. 
VOSS—SHEA—COTTON—MEHRE—BROWN—CASTNER 
'?5e Noure (Siame Sieholaeck? 
WALSH—THOMAS—CAMERON—MIXON—MILI,ER—MURPHY 
Anderson returned the ball again to the Hawkeye 14 yard mark. Belding intercepted a pass and once more the ball' went to mid­
field from where Desch ran the ball back and Belding intercepted another pass. Notre Dame threatened again when Kiley blocked a kick and ran with the ball to the 25 yard line where Devine caught him by one leg. Castner gained and Mohardt passed to Eddie who took the ball once more to the 8 yard line. On the fourth down another pass was intercepted. Notre Dame made another game try when Castner took a pass from the 50 yard line to the 17 yard line as the game was over. Notre Dame gained more than two yards to one of Iowa and had the better of all the statistics except the score. Which team looks like Western champs? 
OCT. 15—NOTRE DAME 33 ; PURDUE 0. 
The boiling of the Boilermakers was rather a tame affair in comparison with the sensational battle at Iowa. Purdue erred frequently enough in the first half to hand 
us 30 points and Paul Castner added his sec­
ond field goal of the day in the~next period 
for the total of 33. Castner's long-distance 
punting featured the game while Hunk An­derson tore through for two fumbles and touchdowns. Buck Shaw began to be recog­nized as the real hum-dinger of the line, Ed­die and Rodger recovered fumbles and John­ny Mohardt continued his steady work. Frank Seyfrit blocked two kicks in succes­sion. The local passing game was not brought into play at all—^much to the disap­pointment of Steve Henegan, sport writer for the Indianapolis Star. Walter Eckersall refereed the game but Rockne was not put­ting out anything because of the fact that Indiana was 'present with note-books. Hunk and Mohardt made two touchdown each and Castner kicked twp field goals. The second half developed a Purdue spurt but the game was one of the least interesting on the schedule. 

• . v . .;--V-,-; 
GARVEY—MOHARDT—WYNNE—PHELAN—GRANT 
'Sfie Nocre dame^SdMkwcic 
HIGI—FLTNN—BYRiNE—DOOLEY—MAHER—MAGEVNEY 
OCT. 22—NOTRE DAME 7; NEBRASkA 0. 

Nebraska and Home-coming furnished plenty of excitement for the hardest-fought game ever staged at Cartier field. The Notre Dame passing was stopped but the running attack proved sufficient to win while the local line—^with Buck Shaw playing like a man fi-om a football factory—held the heavier Comhuskers to two downs and kept them away from the local goal. Chet Wynne, Ed­die Anderson and Johnny Mohardt were the other big stars of the game although every man on the line played wonderful ball with Hunk and Hector going especially strong. Chet Wynne showed the fire of a madman and it was his spirit which kept the wishbones of the linemen crowding their heavy oppon­ents. The game was not spectacular but it was exceptionally hard-fought—^the bruising type of the old-style in which Notre Dame does not often indulge. 
Buck Shaw was the bright star of the afternoon. He backed both sides of the line and went down under punts with the speed of an end. He broke through and had the Huskers stopped before they could thirk of starting. This heavy crew, which later shoved the Pitt Panthers all. over Forbes field, was powerless before the speed and agility of the Notre Dame forwards. Eddie Anderson swung the current of the game at two points by recovering fumbles. Johnny Mohardt gained consistently off-tackle and darted through the hole which Buck and Ed­die made for the only score of the game. There was no doubt as to which w^as the bet­ter team. A crowd of 13,000, a new record for Cartier field, witnessed the game under perfect weather conditions. 

OCT 29—NOTRE DAME 28; INDIANA 7. 

The student body made the trip to Indian­apolis and contentedly marched through the rain before and after Eddie Anderson and his crew had walloped the Crimson to a 
KELLY—LARSON—SHAW—LOGAN—BERGMAN—KIEEY 
'SRe Nocre 6cnneSdK3k»incr 
queen's taste for their audacious attempt of 
the year before. The band led parades ga­
lore that day and not even the continual 
rain and cool weather could dampen the''ar­
dor of triumphant.US.,. 
The first half resembled a real ball game. 
Rockne sent Lieb, Walsh, Phelan and.Thomas 

four rollicking sailors into the sea of imidl/ 
After the waves had calmed down: a bit-he/ 
furloijghedthe original quartet and watch^. 
Johnny Mohardt and Danny Coiighlin riish 
the ball for the first touchdown. A fiinibled 

punt a:nd. some ^strenupus line^pluriging by: 
Kyle tied the count at the end of the half 
and Indiana rooters were quite excited. 
Due to the efforts of Danny Coughlin the 
game became a parade in the second half. 
Danny ran, and tackled and recovered fum­
bles—^what didn't that boy do that day—^and 
he did it all out in the open. Rock had his 
usual three teams in the game before it was 
completed. 
Mohardt drove off-tackle consistently^, and tossed the first six passes to Rodge and Ed­die without a flivver. Hec Garvey and Buck Shaw stood on either side of the line as liv­ing exemplars of Marshal Joffre's famous re­mark.* Chet Grant struck his stride and Young Dutch slipped the:first fire into the periodically returning Bergman comet. 
NOV. 5—^NOTRE DAME 28; VSTEST POINT. 0. 

The simple announcement of the score foregoing caused more genuine surprise to local adherents than any other single event of the season with the exception of the Iowa contest. To the, public at large it brought a tlirill and to certain sections of the el ^ east the thrill gave way to chill. As a point­er to the supremacy of west over east^ an -in--^ dicator of the general class of Rockne's men . and a suggestion that the Iowa game mi^ t well bear close attention to. the actual play apart from the score, the ^ame at West JPoint carried a ^werful kick.' - ^^^ 
-The team was workii^^smoothl}^>^It hit the high spots swiftly^ and siuieSy;^tjiaied ^nd coi^uinmated its 'daring.:' -It .^V^ed> fliat rar ^ and nicNst .desjured;^9J^;^ja^lB^c: sights ^ ch^inpipnMt^^^^ displaying all tiic^-li^u^ul: ]^rm^/1^ ^ and precision tiiat m^e s one organization superior to "another. Eveiy man starred, 
some excelled all previous efforts and the sun went down upon one of the biggest days in the football history of Notre Dame. The game converted New York sport writers and brought them worshipping to the shrine at the Pplp Grounds a few days later when Rockne's men lopsed their windy play 'neath th^fampd .Coogari-Heights. " ^The combined effect :pt the two^ gai^fies practically obliter­ated ithe effecits- of the Iowa .game and /brought forth the spectacle of a defeated team being.ranked^as,the nation's best while .-fiye. undefeated aggregations were ~ crowded 
down the list. 
The Notre Dame line held the Army with­out gain on the first two downs and the hand­writing appealed on the wall when Eddie re­covered a fumble on the Army 20. Castner missed a field goal and a few plays later'the same circumstances led to an attempted Army goal which Eddie blocked and recov­ered. The first quarter continued on this sort of exchanges. In the second period Buck missed an attempt at place kick but Hec Garvey recovered a fumble in mid-field and Johnny \)assed to Rodge for the first marker. Chet.W3mne was the healthy lad bn the next scpre., He ran the kickoff back to the 48 yard line. Dan Coiighlin clicked 30 yards on a forward aiid while the Soldiers covered Kiley, Chet Wynne slipped out to left end and took a pass for '40 yards and a touchdown. 
Late in the second half Hunk prepared the way by recovering. a fumble. Mohardt, Coughlin and Wynne.ran the ball to the 18 yard line but penalties returned it 20 yards and Johnny dropped two passes in Rbdge's 
lingers for another counter. Mbhardt ran 
4)aGk the kickoff .45 yards and Wynne did some sensational plunging to the 20 yard line from where Johnny skirted the end for thCc final counter. -^ 
•^ e work of ther.local line can be esti­mi^e(^ when it is pa^e knpwn that the. Army made but pnp.;i^^ scrimmage aiid one <^n sjijlMiss.; No use ,tb pick 'em outtr-^that kiiid 0i^y: ni«aiis :that everyphe; was in there ^t h both feet. -; ^^^ V; 
l^e boys imbibed of some noble hospital ity provided by Messrs. Byrne and McDon­

-! 
MX&S^^^M?^x. 
aid and became the toast of. the gay old city of New York. Surfeited with theatrical per­formances, they put on a passing show of their own against the boys from the Raritan. It so happened that all of the blase sport writers, of the metropolis were there looking for a thrill—and if you think they did not get it consult Hugh Full'erton's dissertation on miracle backs, etc., etc. Paul Castner cop­ped the major honors by kicking field goals from the 42 and 4t yard lines, punting well and making two touchdowns. Mohardt's passing set the pencil boys on their ears while Kiley's receiving had them gasping for air. Gus Desch caused eye strain to those in the stands who attempted to follow the speed of his wild flights—speed which one critic compared to that of a frightened boot­legger. Shaw, and Hec and Hunk and Wynne and Kiley and Castner and Dooley and Eddie and Johnny made somebody's all-American that day while Harry Mehre got his picture in Charlie Brickley's cartoon be­cause of the funny one-handed pass he made. They were tickled to death to meet us and then took us apart to see what made us tick so regularly. It makes us mad—but think of what it does to Iowa! 
Castner got going on the first play and registered a 35 yard run for a touchdown. Wynne repeated with 35 for another marker in the next two minutes. Castner dropped one over the crossbar from the 42 yard mark. In the second quarter the Raritan lads stop­ped our pass attack for a moment and Cast­ner dropped- another in the basket—^this time from the 47 yard line—^aft{er which Grantland Rice faiiited. Just to keep in shape. Mohardt passed to Kiley for 25 and another marker as the half ended. 
At the beginning of the second half Chet Wynne completed one of the prettiest plays of the season when he made a diving recov­ery of a long pass from'Mohardt. We need­ed just 8 morier yards so Johnny shot it to Eddie for the score. Dan Coughlinrmade a beautiful run through the entire: Rutgers team for 45 yards but was injured and Desch who went in, began a punctuated Marathon which took.the ball to the 2 yard line from where Castner went over. Laeb and Phelan worked the ball down on the next>offensive and Gus went towards Newark and homefires with the tally that made it 48-0. "Not.bad» 
baby," was Danny Sullivan's terse remark. 
The remaining games of the. season were, 

taken on the down grade. Haskell, Mar­
quette and Michigan Aggies were nice quiet 
fellers, principally, although both the Indians 
and Marquette scored on us. 
NOV. 12—NOTRE DAME 42; HASKELL 7. 
When scalps were counted we had six and 

they had one—the massacres of other days 
upon ihese plains of Notre Dame' had been 
avenged. Pauf Castner swung his left-
handed hatchet for three touchdowns, Eari 
Walsh put the Indiana sign on two moi'e and 
Scout Desch tracked like a frightened deer 
for another. (There were no bobtleggefrs in 
the old days.) 
A Cherokee named Levi and another Cher­

okee of the genus WofFord got rambunctious in the last period and passed for 65 yards in -5 attempts through our thijd string. They began to war-whooping it up but "Coach Hal-as sent the first string into the battle and 
it became an Indian of another color. 
NOV. 19—NOTRE DAME 21; MARQUETTE 7. 

It was the Irish against the Irish and the cold and snow against all of them at Milwau­kee but Rockne's crew proved their ability to handle the,snow balls by plowing through for three touchdowns. Johnny Mohardt was the KingrBozo wiil^ Eddie Anderson shining. as a Ipluke: Johnny tore off two long runs of 35 and 40 yards while Eddie took a pass from Johnny and cleaned up for 50 yards and another marker. Hunk Anderson's hand was not quicker than the. referee's eye and the husky guard left the game shortly after sev­eral Marquetters had jumped' heavily on little Chet Grant who was out of bounds at the time. Several of the boys appeared to like the town. ... 
THANKSGIVING DAY, NOV.. 24—NOTRE DAME 48; AGGIES 6. 
.This is the game by. which Cullen Cain, 

poetical sport writer of the Philadelphia 
Public Ledger, attempted to prove that Notre 
Dame was not so good. Some how, Mr. Cain 
read the score 4-Q >and inunediately thought 
Aggies not bad—-Notre Dame not sa good-^. 
Harvard, Yale aud Princeton peachy. ~ 
Once again was Johnny Mohardt the star. 

lefie Nocre borne Sdhdasvic 
Going into the game with a broken nose the peppery half-back made three touchdowns by his best running of the year and passed nore than 130 yards to Rodge and Eddie— all of this in less than half a game. Hariy IJehre finished his career in a blaze by doing a Single-G down the track for 65 yards and a touchf.own after the interception of a pass. 
Paul Castner ticked off 65 yards after re­ceivmg a kickoff and added other material gains. Wynne tallied in the first half fol­lowing his steady plunging and Earl Walsh, Gus Desch, and Dutch Bergman completed the rout. Capt. Anderson, Kiley, Mohardt, Hunk Anderson, Shaw, Wynne, Phelan, Walsh, Coughlin, Carberry, Mehre and Grant completed their careers. 
A Princeton coach and Dr. Bull, the Yale trainer, were in the stands-^students of the game come to learn from Old Man Rockne— not bad, not bad at all—which is about the best and most significant ending we can give to our season's review. 
The following statistics show that Johnny Mohardt was the high scorer of the team 
. and that Buck Shaw made a record in goal kicks which may stand forth for the season— 38 of a possible 40. Rodge Kiley didn't muff a pass all season and Hunk Anderson made two touchdowns in three minutes against Purdue—a possible record for a guard. Chet W^ynne's opening run of the season for 80 yards was the longest on record. Mohardt kicked in v^ith a 70, Mehre, Castner and Desch for 65 while Mohardt, Wynne, Desch, Eddie Anderson, Kiley, Coughlin contributed 50 yard sprints in numbers. Eddie Ander­son, Hunk and Hector recovered the most fumbles. Mohardt passed over 1150 yards and Mohardt to Kiley became famous as a passing batterj^ Paul Castner kicked a 47 yard drop kick. Eddie Anderson made Eck­ersall's all-American and Mohardt and Eddie made his all-Western. Eddie, Rodge, Mo­hardt, Hunk, Buck, Wynne, Dooley and Cast­ner, made all-American teams of various au­thorities—a remarkable record which spells the story of the season's success. 
We can't forget Rockne-^Northwestern refuses to let ijs do that. Everybody con-r cedes everything we might say about Rockne as a coach—^and he made the all-American himself this year when he was recognized 

-r' 
as one of the five leading coaches in the coun­try. We at Notre Dame have still more advanced ideas on that subject but we'll let Rock prove them himself when he starts next season with a freshman outfit. 
Touch­  Field  Goals after  
Player  downs  Goals  Touchdown  Total  
Mohardt  12  __  .-__  72  
Wynne  9  __  _  54  
Castner  6  4  __  48  
Shaw  __  __  38  38  
Kiley  _^  r__  5  __  __  30  
Desch  5  30  
Walsh  3  _­ —  • '  18  
Thomas  .  ^  3  _  —  18  
E. Andiei-son  2  .  12 .  
Coughlin  2  __<^  __  12  
H. Anderson  2  __  __  12  
Voss  __  __•  7  .  7  
Rease  1  6  
Seyfrit  1  __  .  __  6  
Mehre  1  6  
Lieb  »  __  __  2  2  
Safety  __  __  __  2  

WALTER HALAS 
ASSISTANT COACH. ^ 
For two years Walter Halas has done much to help "Rock" develop championship football teams at Notre Dame. He came here from Davenport in 1920 to coach basketball and baseball, but his experience with football has made him a valuable as­sistant to Rockne. He knows the game from goal to goal, has the ability of showing play­ers how a thing ought to be done, and has no trouble deciphering strange plays. This last was put to good use when Mr. Halas made trips into enemy camps. When he re­turned and compared notes with Bariy Hol­ton, it was not long until the Freshman team was making the Varsity battle ^for every inch in scrimmage practice. Last spring Mr. Halas could not devote much time to helping along the Spring practice, as he was a very busy man developing a baseball team. At present he may be found in the gym every afternoon picking material for a basketball team which he claims is going to be the best ever at Notre Dame. In all forms of sport, Mr. Halas is an enthusiastic coach; his en­thusiasm is of the contagious kind, and that is why he can train successful teams, 
A 

We Nocre (Stome Schokigcic 
A SMALL WESTERN TEAM—BY EDWIN MURPHY 
It had been my intention to celebrate a Pan America team. The obvious superiority of ths West over the East made it apparent 
JOE PLISKA, JK. EAY EICHENLAUB, JR. 

however, that a Small Western selection would include the bast in the game. Possibly there are better players in the East, but the best are found this side of Pittsburgh. 
The first requisite of a Small Western can­didate is amateur standing. The second ama­teur sitting. Nobody will doubt the ama­teur standing of the selection that is amassed herein. The average sitting of the team is better than had been expected, but big and small it is decidedly amateurish. A soporific investigation failed to reveal evidence indi­cating that any of the team ever slept for money. 
The bevy of babies that constitute the SCHOLASTIC'S Small Western all happen to be Irish either by birth or birthright. In fact the last three football seasons have seen some remarkable material developed. It is merely a matter of time before it will be whipped into shape. Already the whipping process has efiiected notable results. 
In preparing the Small Western. I gave much attention to the crying wants of the candidates, particularly in the way of sugar and castoria. While such crying ability does not need to be heralded locally, the pub­lic at large hears little of what goes on on Mars. 
Tii8 team is unusually light. It is also young and inexperienced. A thorough course of training will eventually develop a line, however, that can get by anywhere. The tumbling act must be mastered by the young meteors before the team can get on its feet; it ought to be able to hold up and hand on after that. 
Selections follow one another hereafter in rapid fire. 
FULLBACK. 

Kid Eichenlaub was chosen because of his toddling ability; he ought to waltz straight through any line. He has a dangerous toe which he uses to advantage against all comers. Kid "Eich" can keep on his feet bet­ter than most of his contemporaries, and is all together a cute rascal on ^nd off the field. 
HALFBACKS. 

Babe Barry and Red Miller constitute a carting backfield tandem.. Miller can pass from one end of the field to the other with the utmost ease, while Barry can stick a finger in anybody's eye. Together they are the most mischievous imps in the game. 

QUARTERBACK. 

Dorais was my unanimous choice as pilot. Ha has a head on him, that lad. It is quite evident to' anybody, although the wisp of hair is not. He is hard to hold, and has a reputa­tion for wriggling out of difficult places. 

ENDS. 
Rockne, the miracle baby, is my scintillant 
CHARLIE DORIAS, JR. 

'Sfte Nocre domeSdKjkigcic 
BIG" BERGMAN, JR. 
selection for one end. He is my most prom­ising Small Western lumber. He has an ex­traordinary vocabulary already, arid it is growing apace. With Gushurst, the other end, I have a pair of cunning youngsters for wing positions. Gushurst is a little fellow, but he is there, or elsewhere, when his pres­
"RED" MILLER, JR. 
ence is expected. He can catch passes, 
• measles, or flies with equal facility. 
TACKLES. Dutch Bergman F and Sam Dolan Jr. are aggressive and ambitious tackles. Berg­man F will take a chance at anything that does not bite him first. He is a clever tickler, and always gets his man low, about the toes. Great things are expected of Dolan Jr. His name would gi'ace any lineup or police force with equal splendor. Besides he is an expert at interference, and can break into any con­versation. 
GUARDS. 
The old guard dies but never surrenders. As I cannot afford to have any dead lumber 
WALTER HALAS, JR. 
'NORM" BARRY, JR. 

'5fie Nocrefitome Schdascie 
on this team, I have picked candidates who will neither die nor surrender. Young Halas has two outstanding qualities. He can 
SAM DOLAN, JR. 

stan^ off or stand on any opponent. With Pliska at the other guard position the Small Western will have plenty of youth. Pliska is an ideal guard. He knows his place and always holds4t, 
CENTER. 

For keystone position I have Dutch Berg­man 112. He is a chip off the old block. No­body will deny this. He is the right peg for pivot place therefore. He is only a little shaver, and uses a Gillette. In this respect he differs from his pater who uses a Gem. 
As some of my readers may have suspected before this, the Small Western is what is technically known as a mythical eleven. Every student of mythology has heard of King Knute. Every student of mythical elevens knows the story of Coach Kniite K. A canvass taken by a prominent sport jour­nalist for the purpose of electing an All-America coach found K. K. close to the top and going strong with many precincts miss­ing- Rockne has been the greatest single factor in establishing Notre Dame's athletic reputation. He has turned out a western championship team, and followed it by what national sport authors acclaim as the best team in the country. That is why I niade Litle "Rock" captain of the Small Western. Associated with such names as Eichenlaub, "Red" Miller, Dorais and Bergman the Small. Western presents a collection of side­lights that illumine the dim days of 1940. 
IN MEMORIAM. 
December fourteenth marks a veiy impoi"t­

ant date in the student history of Notre 
Dame. ' 'oday our thoughts revert to George 
Cipp, who lies at peace underneath' tjie 
snows of Laurium, Michigan, his home town. 
Just one year ago a splendid friend, stu­
dent and athlete died and left to us an envi­
able heritage. He had brought to himself 
and to Notre Dame a wealthy of gloiy and 
fame, and he passed away in the height of his 
career . His name is linked inseparably with 
that of Notre Dame not only because of his 
marvelous athletic prowess but also for the 
reason that he typified his school in a multi­
tude of ways; he was a representative man. 
Every one^ acquainted with college athletics 

knew George Gipp through the medium'of 
the press.. Upon him were showered the 
praises and honors that come to few men; 
he was universally chosen on the mythical ' 
elevens which were published at the close of 
the season of nineteen hundred twenty. • 
George Gipp was proclaimed, from coast to 
coast, the best player of the season and stood 
so far above any other football player that' 
experts who had long observed the game se­
lected him as All-time AU-American half 
back. He mounted to the pinnacle of athletic 
achievement and passed in fullest brilliance. 
Words can not contain our'love and esteem 

for him; his name will ever be remembered 
and honored. To Notre Dame men, especially 
those who knew him best, his team mates, 
coach and fellow students was given the priv­
ilege of knowing him not as George Gipp, 
the ail-American, but as George Gipp the 
man. He. has become a legend at Notre Dame 
and can not be forgotten. George Gipp was 
a true gentleman and friend, of splendid 
character and high ideals. Notre Dame shall 
always cherish his memory and point with 
•mingled pride and sorrow to George Gipp as a man well worih emulation. He was a Notre Dame man. At the close of the pres­ent season, it is a good thing for us to re­member the glory and the;sadness of the past; to show that in our hearts there is a memorial more lasting than any stone or bronze. E. B. DEGREE. 
'Jsfie Nocre 5ame Scholascic 
It may be expedient to veil in deep silence the details attending the proposed encounter with Centre College; if so, we are going to 
presume just a THE GAME WITH CENTRE, little upon said 
expediency and have our fling. Where tliere was no chance to play at Pasadena, friends of the team be­lieved that the trip to San Diego would be a good outing for the champions of our United States, and Notre Dame authorities agreed. Then came the unfortunate details referred to in another editorial, and the University decided to cancel the game. Upon repre­sentation from San Diego, however, this de­cision was changed to save the sponsors of the tilt from serious pecuniary loss. Rock w^as willing to fight it out even with a weak­ened team. We set our teeth' and the team gritted its teeth—^when, lo and behold. Centre refused to play on the ground that it had arranged to meet a Western team, and so, after a week of journalistic affirmations and denials, San Diego was definitely and finally without a game. We make no comment. Our friends and alumni will gather from this simple statement of the case that Notre Dame played square once more. On Decem­ber 26 we can use our imaginations to decide what would have occurred if . 

J. E. H. 

A shadow has come over the footi3all sea­son at Its close, a shadow which we hated to 
reveal but which, for the sake of Notre Dame athletics dur-KEEPING THE SLATE ing all the future, had CLEAN. to be looked at and 
brushed away. Three of the ablest of our players—Hartley Ander­son, Fred Larson and A. A. Garvey—were found guilty of having played professional football in the city of Milwaukee. They have. been barred from participation in athletics at Notre Dame and their monograms have baen withdrawn. It was a bitter medicine as well for those who were obliged to dis­pense it. Nevertheless, we feel that the odium of the situation does not fall in the first instance upon the heads of these three lads, whom a genuine need for money led into temptation and into violation of funda­mental college ethics. The real blame rests upon those cheap promoters of professional contests for whom no convention of decent sport is sacred, and for whom colleges and college careers are secondary matters when the n:aking of a little easy money is involved. The friends and alumni of Notre Dame, as well as the friends and alumni of other schools, must find the way in which that blame will meet the sentence it so amply de­serves. In the long run, college football will not survive the unhampered eiforts of the "football sharks." Give them the same kind cx medicine as has cleared the world of loan-sharks, quack doctors and horse-thieves. Give it to them hard. G. N. s. 



'^e Hacve ^ame SehAasvic 
In last week's issue of the SCHOLASTIC there was an account of a meeting December 2nd, at St. Joseph's hall in South Bend, and attended by a group of A QUESTION OF Off-Campus students for DISCIPLINE. the purpose of discussing 
discipline. We cajiinot re­frain from commenting on this meeting. In many ways it was the most interesting we have experienced at Notre Dame. 
First of all, there was a gToup of vie7i. 

-They talked common sense. They had been called together to discuss matters of discip­line—and discipline is a delicate subject in I'elation to the student—but they attacked the question in a square-shouldered fashion. There was no quibbling, despite the fact that there were differences of opinion. There M^as frankness. All of the views were out­spoken. This last is one of the things that most appealed to us. We listened to stu­dent opinion that is usually heard only be­hind the backs of prefects. It was a revela­tion; proof sufficient, at any rate, that the faculty could safely bring more of the mis­understood questions that concern the stu­dent out where they can receive honest dis­cussion. 
The students at the South Bend meeting decided to recommend to the Off-Campus student body a system of student discipline which has the approval of the University. The system has been described. Perhaps the real importance of the proposed method will b? lost without a brief consideration. We may be pardoned, therefore, for taking the space to analyze it here. 
In its application, if put into effect, the system will concern at first only the stu­dents residing in South Bend. But here is an important point. If the system is a suc­cess downtown, it, or a similiar disciplinary method ,may be applied on the campus also. At first glance, this may seem a spying sys­tem. It may appear to the person who does not study it as the establishment of a "stu­dent police" force. Such an idea has no right to exist. The proposed committee of twenty-. five will ont have to assume the position oi a police committee. Its members will not go . out in search of student offenders. They will observe cases that constitute serious of­fenses against the rules and report ont hem. 
il. is triie. A sub-committee will warn those who commit a second offense. But there will bo no spying or policing. 
The syste.Ti will place the matter of dis­cipline downtown almost entirely. in the hands of the students. In observing many of the rules the students will be on their honor. We believe that not only the Off-campus will recognize the beneh shrdlu uu Campus students, but the students on the Campus will recognize the benefits of this. We believe they can see the advantages of _^. il enough to encourage the adoption of the system. 
The days of prefect discipline at Notre Dame will have to pass some time. The time may not be far away. Eventually the Uni­versity v,iil have to adapt itself to. the re­quirements of the bigger Notre Dame that it is fast becoming. Some sort of discipline will always be required. But the kinds of discipline that can be applied at a university of 1,000 and at a university of 2,500 are al­together different. 
It is our earnest belief that the student body as a whole, and the Off-Campus stu­dents in particular, should accept the will­ingness of the faculty to permit a trial of the system of student discipline as a recog­nition that concessions will be granted, if these are ^accepted in the right way. We are pi-oi" ised, in fact, that there may be a change if the students do^vntown respect the system of student discipline properly, in event of its r.doption. The faculty is being more than fair in this. The students should be fair to tliemselves. Studied from many angles, the offer which the faculty has made is the most important, seen from the student viewpoint, that has been proposed in many years. 
In closing, we do not make an appeal. The Off-aCmpus student body will cast their votes on the matter. We believe the whole ques­tion can be decided by them on its merits. We hope that none of the Off-Campus men, however, will minimize the importance of their votes. MOLZ. 
CORRESPONDENCE. 

To THE EDITOR OF THE SCHOLASTIC: 
I have read your interesting article entitled "Closer Relationship, etc." Now if one views .the matter philosophically, this article seems tinged with 
'&}& HocrebconeSkAKk»mc 
Boshevistic inclination; ethically considered, it runs headlong into matrimony; rhetorically, the antithesis between "riif-raff" and "winsome daughters of Eve," is perhaps, too startling. The fundamental ques­tion is, however, the establishment of amicable re­lations, even of anmament, paradoxically. It would seem that certain grave difficulties confront the re­former here. Suppose that six hundred students should take it into their heads to pay a visit upon a certain day. What a tremendous encroachment upon hospitality! What a banging of telephones, what a burden on the truck that carries the mail (and the male)! I may, therefore, be pardoned for suggesting a simple device. Let the St. Mary's street car pass before -the postoffice so that upon receipt of the student nickel, the door will open for relations. Wireless telephones ^vith photographic attachment might help—^the telephones could even be provided with armatures. 
But gentle sir, why not write sonnets instead? 
KRACK. 
EDITOR OF THE SCHOLASTIC: 
As for the e^^dently young man who brought the matter of Saint Mary's out from a long assignment to obli\aon, we do' not see why he "should be con­demned for a joui'nalist. He is not a journalist ac­cording to the student's office. If a journalist at heart, we congratulate him on his choice of words. But we -want to know how newspaper men got into the habit of writing themes. It has always been the custom to have themes appear in the "Public Pulse" column. " 
Moreover, we lift our brows in horror at the; thought of even.some haH-dozen glucose individuals being guilty of promiscuous.flirtation. We hope that, the SCHOLASTIC has no readers Avho would wink at such a practice. We once had to go over to St." Malay's on a journalistic errand, and one of the in­mates tried to flirt with us at the height of two stories. We thought that was too high. But per­haps it was on|y a foolishly romantic kitchen girl. We cannot conceive of a St. Mar3^s girl being party to such conduct, although we do know several fel­lows who have several cousins on the other side. 


E. W. MUBPHY. 
Herewith the controversy which has arisen around the subject of our relations with Saint. Mary's is closed. We still have on hand a half-dozen letters, which, alas, we must remit to oblivion. It has been an enjoyable discussion. In conclusion we wish to reveal the fact that, though there is something to be said- for -Mr. Thiemann's point of view, the SCHOLASTIC printed his editorial for its own pur­pose. Very, often, after a chap has spent hours formulating an opinion about something, and other hours putting it on paper, he is informed that those 

.;\^'hp-should.commend his-effort have "had no time v^tfi read the SCHOLASTIC;" in fact, "very seldom read .-anjrthing except, the sport column." The irate re­marks which have followed the editorial in question have, however, proved that there exists a dilemma: 
either that people do read the SCHOLASTIC or that they will not look at something which is not, in their eyes, anathema. We prefer to accept the first horn and drink to the health of those who may have, we regret, been offnded by our really innocent ex­periment. ^ E. T. D. ­
*** 
*** 

To THE EDITOR OF THE SCHOLASTIC: 
One of your associates, Mr. Engels, has-been so over-kind as to connect me with the remarkable performance of an. unknown yoimg man, who, it seems, in November, 1918, ran umpty yards for a touchdown against the Great Lakes eleven, and sayed^ Notre Dame from defeat. So intimaltely, in fact, did Mr, Engels connect me with this achieve­ment as to identify me with the real hero. 
Would that I had been young enough to be a member of the S. A. T. C. As a matter of personal impression, however, I would say that in Novem­ber, 1918, I had already been in the service about eighteen months, and that most of my zigzagging that fall had been done in a French billeting- area. 
My experience overseas was quite safe.and sane. I nevfer heard the cannon roar anywhere but on an artillery range in Mississippi; my hardest dug­out viras a skyscraping French bed. If Mr.'Engels, therefore, is led by this note to make a correction, please restrain him from j:onfusing m y exploits with those of Sergeant York. I didn't make the third team of the A. E. F., much less get into the big game. DONALD C. GRANT. 
PERSONALS. 
Michael Schwartz, '21, former Kansan, is now employed by the United States Steel Company of New York City. 
John O'Connell, '01 recently launched a new paper in Brooklyn, N. Y. The Coiirier is meeting with great success. 
Stephen ("Steve") Burns, alumnus and former inmate of Fort Wa3ntie, is at.present associated with, the Federal Electric, Com­pany of New, York City. ' 
The speakers at the December 15th meet­ing of the Marquette Club, an organizatkAi composed of prominent Catholic prbfessional and business nien in the East, held at the Hotel Pennsylvania in New York City in­cluded Dr. James A. Bums, C. S. C.~, presi­dent of the University, and Dr. John €av­anaugh, C. S. C, professor and former preisi­dent of the University. 
SHEA. 

'^il--- -<-^. y=: ^ V 
'^^ Hocii^ domeSdiokwtk^ 
THE FRESHMEN. 
With the homage of the football world at her feet, and the plaudits of the greatest critics of the game today ringing in her ears and pronouncing her 1921 team the greatest football machine ever developed, Notre Dame turns slowly away from the present to the future in football and the an­nouncement, in part, of a 1922 schedule which would stagger a typical "Fighting Irish" eleven, brings forth a great deal of speculation concerning the strength of the Ii-ish squad which will fight to keep the Gold and Blue's wonderful record unsullied. 
Certainly Coach Rockne, wizard that he is, can not conjure superlatively talented grid­iron teams out of thin air, and thin air is just about all that is left of the team that set the east agog a few short weeks ago. 
To Notre Dame's Freshman squad will fall the task of filling those gaping holes in line and backfield, and just now a formidable Freshman team is one bright spot in a none too rosy sky. 
One of the heaviest and most promising squads of recent years, Notre Dame's 1921 Freshman crew developed into a worthy op­position for the Varsity before the season was many weeks old and their fine record against minor colleges in , this vicinity speaks for itself. 

Before Coaches Barry Holton and "Duke" Hodler had had much time to organize their proteges properly Kalamazoo College and Lake Forest College had forced the Yearlings to dip their colours, but the scores 7-0 and 21-0 bear out the fact that the Freshmen fought every inch of the way, while their record from this point on would convince one that it was only lack of team work which lost those first, two games. ^ 
Naval Training Station, Culver, Michigan Aggies Fresh, and Albion College were met in that order and Albion, champions of the Michigan conference, were the only team to force the Gold and Blue youngsters to come home defeated, the score in this case being 14 to 7. , Taking into consideration the fact that the Freshman team in preparing the Varsity for its games was forced to change signals every 





"THE OLIVER" 
Indiana's Finest Hotel 
Fireproof SOUTH BEND ROOMS 
Dining Room Open AH Night ' 





ws^^m 
LIMA OHIO 

212 S. Michigan, Blackstone Bldg. 
OFFICE PHONE RES. PHONE Main C8» Main IICZ and 1847 
DR. EDGAR S. LUCAS 
Dentistry. 


DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS 
Extracting, and Surgery of the Mouth and Jaws. 

J. M. & BUILDING SOUTH BEND. IND. 
DR. F. W. VAUGHN DENTIST an d ORTifODONTIST M7 J. M. S. Buildihcr. South Beiid;^^^iad| 
'56e Nocre 6aine ^iehdoscicr 

pLACKSTONg 

^THEATRE 
SUNDAY, DECEMBEE 18th, ONLY 
»
U Marooned Hearts 
Commencing Monday December 19, for 3 days 
ANITA STEWART 
IN 

''Harriet and the Piper'' 
A Sensational Slam at Free. Love. Coming Thursday December 22, for 3 days 


"Don't;Neglect Yonr Wifef 
A Picture for Husbands and Wives and all that expect to be. 
Wishing for 
A Merry Christmas 
and a 


Happy New Year 
I 

week, and that, these little rehearsals with the greatest team of history were not exactly child's play, one begins to realize that in many respects Notre Dame can justly boast of a remarkable Freshman team. 
A wealth of back field material, together with a big, fast line, which was capable of playing intelligent football, made this pos­sible. 
No less than four quarterbacks were used tliroughout the season by Coaches Holton and Hodler, and although Stolldreher looked to be the best of the quartet until he broke his leg, Layden is a big boy who promises to de­velop, while Eaton-and "Bill" Sheehan are men who are bound to figure in the scrap for field general next fall. 
The two Millers, "Jerrie" and Don, Cer­ney, Bernie Coughlin and Crowley are five halfbacks who all look good for future Irish Varsity teams, with Crowley, an especially talented back who can be developed into a triple threat artist. . Three fullbacks, Livergood, Enright and Doc Connel, rounded out a backfield squad the versatility and speed of which was a pleasant surprise to Notre Dame men. 
On the line there was weight aplentj\ 
Big Frank Millbauer with a little more than one-eighth of a ton of beef and brawn was certainly the heaviest husky of the lot and there are ^ome who will say that the gigantic boy from the East was the best. However, that is problematical for Elmer Miller, Stang and Fret looked very good all season at the tackle jobs. They are all fight­ers and although they look small beside Mill­bauer, they can hardly be called whiffets. 
Vergera, Riser and Moes were the guards and they showed form that sets at rest all promised weakness of Natre, Dame Varsity at this position next season. 
"Addie" Walsh and Arndt were fighting it out for the center berth when the California boy broke his collar bone and was forced to sit on the side lines for the rest of the season. However, in the short time that he 
was in .Walsh showed great ability. Arndt is also a, very capable performer. 
LASALLE < The fight for end positions was one which was waged throughout the whole season 
'^e Houve ©ame Schdascic 
without any paiticular brace of flankers out­classing the others. W. Eaton, Collins and Honsing-er were left at the season's end, but McNulty and Walsh must not be forgoixen when doping out probable 1922 Varsity com­binations. 
While the record of games played by Notre Dame's 1921 Freshman team is a cred­itable one, their Cartier Field record against the Blue and Gold Varsity is much more im­poi-tant to Notre Dame men. 
Those many afternoons when, behind closed gates, they faced the fury of the Var­sity's attack, were well spent by these boys, and the eyes of Notre Dame are already focused on the men whose ability will de­cide whether the "Fighting Irish" will con­tinue their victorious march. 
GILCHEIST. 
THE .GREATEST OF THEM ALL. 

With the football season apparently closed Notre Dame's hot stove league experts are finding amuse­ment in looking back over the season and hazard­ing guesses as to which team could be considered the nation's best. It is probable that a questionnaire circulated among the students would reveal a sur­prising unanimity of opinion on this subject. One gloomy day the gods saw fit to frown upon us, with the result that we cannot dispute the claim of Iowa to the Western Championship, but we do put forth the claim that we have assembled the greatest col­lection of stars in the country, and that taken as a team they form the most powerful aggregation in America. That this is not merely a local opinion 
is shovvn by the following lineup compo.^idmen who have been picked for variousteams by experts throughout the country:   of all­  our star  
L. E.—Kiley  (Notre Dame).  

Selected for All-American by: Philadelphia Evening Ledger, Newark Evening News, Jack  Veiock, Henry Farrel; All-Star team by Hugh Fullerton; Hall of Fame by Grantland Rice. 

L. G.—H. Anderson (Notre Dame). 
Selected for AU-American by Jack Veiock, and for the .second AU-American of Billy Evans; All-Western (second team) by Walter Eckersall. 

C.—Mehre (Notre Dame). Selected for AU-American by Brooklyn Eagle. 
n. G.—^Dooley (Notre Dame). Selected for Grantland Eice's Hall of Fame. 
If You*ve Spilt the Beans, 


Let Swank Clean Your Clotlws 
CLEANING PRESSING REPAIRING 
One Day Service 25 Cents Extra 
Regular Two-Day Deliqery Clothes Called for and Delivered to Soom by 
E. W. MURPHY 307 Corby 

SWANK'S MASTER CLEANERS 
228 N. Michigan St. 



OLIVER THEATRE 
Palace Theatre Corp. Lessees 
NOW PLAYING—TILL DECEMBER 25 The Greatest of All Human Interest Photo Plays 
**Why Girls DontMiMit '' ^YS?"^^ Leave Home" 
Adapted from the Famous Stage Play Featuring ANNA Q. NILLSON. 
HAIR DRY? DANDRUFF? HAIR FALLING? USE 

ORDEO 
and KOKOL OIL 
They have no supeiior. Let us send a bottle 
home for you. 


THE CAMPUS BARBER SHOP 
HOURS S:00 A. M. TO 6:M P. M. 

'Sfie Ncjcre (bame SdKiaszic 
Now showing patent, also dull of this type—a full dress or dancing oxford—price $9.00. 




KLINGEL'S 
ACROSS FROM OLIVER HOTEL 

366 OLIVER THEATRE BLDG. 
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
We si^olo atttaettbe bariations of t^e prebatling tdnitefi in taahiani. 
IMPORTED AND DOMESTIC SHIRTS. NECKWEAR. HALF-HOSE. 

R. T.—Shaw (Notre Dame). 
Selected for AU-American by Lawrence Perry; AU-American by Vincent Engels; Hall of Fame by Grantland Rice. 

R. E.—E. Anderson (Notre Dame). 
Selected for All-American by: Walter Ecker­sall, Henry Farrell, Billy Evans (second team) ; All-Western by: Walter Eckersall, Chicago Herald and Examiner, Norman Ross; All Star Team by: Hugh FuUerton; Hall of Fame by Grantland- Rice. 

L. H.—Mohardt (Notre Dame). 
Selected for All-American by Walter Ecker­sall (second team); All-Western by: Walter Eckersall, Chicago Herald and Examiner. 

R. H.—Castner (Notre Dame). All Star Team by Hugh FuUerton. 
P.—Wynne (Notre Dame). 
Selected for All-American by Philadelphia 
Evening Ledger, Newark Evening News, Henry 
Farrell (second team); AU-Westem by Norman 
Ross; AU-Star team by Grantland Rice] 

In addition to these honorary positions, the fol­lowing Notre Dame men were placed upon the first or second All-State teams by Blaine Patton, of the Indianapolis Star: 
L. E., Kiley (Notre Dame); L. T., Garvey (Notre Dame); L. G., H. Anderson (Notre Dame); R. T., Shaw (Notre Dame); R. E., E. Anderson (Notre Dame); L. H., Mohardt (Notre Dame); F., Wynne (Notre Dame); Q., Grant (Notre Dame). 
In preparing this list there has been no intensive effort made to name all the positions awarded to Notre Dame men on the many honorary teams of the country, and4t is most probable that if there had been the list would have been enlarged con­siderably. We have simply named the most notable choices in support of what seems to be a universal contention of those who have seen the Irish in action, namely that Notre Dame has the "greatest of them all." 
N. B.—^As the SCHOLASTIC goes to press we learn that'..an All-American team picked by two weU­known authorities. Eddie Anderson' and Chetter Wynne, is composed of eleven Notre Dame men. 
G. HA6AN. 

J
aii^i&l:. 
/ . 
223 

/^5e Nocre dameSdiokwcic 
BARRY HOLTON 
FRESHMAN COACH. 

Coach Holton made his first apeparance in Notre Dame football in 1917, but the war prevented his playing with the Varsity after that year. This year he has used his foot­ball knowledge and experience in developing what has been the best Freshman team ever seen at Notre Dame. By means of this team he has contributed a most important part to the success of the Varsity's 1921 season. He began by picking his 'players from a maze of Freshman aspirants, a task which seemed almost impossible at the beginning of the year; at that time Cartier Field was speckled with Freshman football players. But Barry was the man for the job, and he was not long in developing* a team which went through a very successful season, made the Varsity show what it could do, and raised "Rock's" hopes for another championship team next year. Bariy drilled his men thoroughly in the plays used by the Varsity's opponents, but to give the latter some real competition he figured out new plays for his team to use. He has developed exceedingly well several players who will step into the shoes of the Varsity men who leave this year. 
*** 
ALBERT HODLER 
ASSISTANT FRESHMAN COACH. 

Coach Holton was very well assisted by "Duke" Hodler in making a Freshman team. "Duke" was an All-Northwest halfback in 1919, playing for Oregon Agricultural Col­lege. He came to Notre Dame last winter, and consequently was not eligible for varsity. But Rockne does not waste football ability, so at the beginning of the year told "Duke" to help Holton whip the Freshmen into shape. His knowledge of plays and ability as a player soon made his indispensable to the Freshman team. During Holton's absence at the end of the year, "Duke" had comr plete charge of the team. 




WALK-OVER 
For Men of Good Taste. 
In Black Calf . . . . . $10.00 
CL-OUSE'S 


BOOT SHOP 

NT JIOLMKMIGMMJT. 

^y :. 
We Lead TIMB Al widi • « Hais ad! C ^ 
M 
^rauMSbop m 

The Sho^ ThatlSatafies. 

ii 6 WASHINGTON STKBET 

TSfie Nocre 5ame Sehdascic 
THE GATES SCHOOL FOR DANCING 
Located in the business center of South Bend 120 East Wayne Street. Phone Lincoln 6491 
Has been established in the city of South Bend for three years and has attained the highest success in the Art of teaching dancing. 
WE GUARANTEE TO TEACH YOU TO ' DANCE 
Private lessons where all embarrassment of learning is eliminated. Two large private studios, open daily 2 to 10 p. m. 
SPECIAL COURSE RATES WITHIN THE REACH OF EVERYONE. 
When you have tried all- others and failed, try the GATES SYSTEM, better still, begin with GATES and have no more trouble or worry about failure, or waste of time ,and money. 
PROF. CHARLES C. GATES, Director MISS ESTHER MURRAY, Assistant 
A horse on you f 
You can" buy a horse for $25.00 and another for $250.00. 
The first is a cheap skate at the start and a horse on you at the finish, whereas the last delivers your message to Garcia and is a joy forever. 
Same with clothes.—If you buy a cheap suit this Fall, you'll buy a good .suit next Spring, for the trick.s and habit.-? of a half shoddy suit are a good suit's best advertisement. 
Fashion Park and Royal Tailored Suits 
for men and young men. All Wool—Hand Tailored and perfectly styled—$40, $50 and $60. 
Ralph D. King 
Niles, Michigan 
CHANGE 
By McGINNIS. 
Over one thousand dollars has been subscribed by merchants of Boulder, Colorado, towards the maintenance of a training table for the football squad of the University of Colorado. We are strong for the commerce men. 
*** 
PROFESSORS ARE KISSING. 
A famous institution has been revived at the University of Texas recently. The professors of the school _are again indulging in the faculty billiard tcurnament, the first game' of which was played a few weeks ago. 
Leland-Stanford University possesses a Fresh­
man who in turn possesses an aeroplane and oper­
ates it daily in going and coming from classes. Re­
freshing rides over the campus have been experi­
enced by many of the students and we conjecture 
that they are glad of the occasional opportunities 
to look down on their jirofessors. 
*** 
LAB. LAYS A HEAVY HAND. 
Ninety-two students, among them some of the most prominent in the school, were recently sus­pended from the University of Oregon for non­pajnnent of laboratory fees. 
*** 

"Sport Editor announces that the big intersec­tional football game between San Quentin and Sing-Sing will not be played this year as the San Quen­tin quarterback will be hung the morning of the game."—^University of Washington Daily. Step up you Notre Dame lifers and cover yourselves with glory. 
*** 
POLICE! POLICE!! GANG FIGHT!!! 

"Checker tournament open to any member of-the university. Give name, address and class to etc., etc., etc.—Advertisement in The Harvarl Crimson. 
Examinations have been abolished by the Whar­ton School of Commerce at the University of Penn­sylvania, marking a new era in educational methods. The time formerly used for examinations will be used for regular classes. Is this the millehium? 
*** 
RAWTHER JOLLY, WHAT? 

Birmingham, Eng., Oct. 29th. A striking innova­tion in university education will be introduced at Birmingham University. The college officials plan to confer a degree in the science of brewing. 
The world's rugby trophy will be at stake at 
the game between the University of British Co­lumbia and the winner of the Stanford-California contest. The championship game will be played on Christmas day.—Duilif Kansan. 
In order to ascertain the average of of the new students entering Ohio State University an examina­tion of the records was made recently and the re­sults showed that the greatest percentage at any age is at 18 years while 19.1 is the average age of all the new men. There are 1,689 new men at Colum­bus this year. 
WHEN A WHOLE CLASS PANTS. 

The Senior Class of Wabash College finds it neces­sary to issue an edict to prevent all students not members of the Senior Class from wearing the class insignia—light gray corduroy trousers. A peaceful ending of the trouble is looked for as "Our heart is with the Wabash men." 
*** 

"All Michigan in the Movies." This is the cry of the Michigan Daily and if present plans are completed the slogan mil ^oon be a mere statement of fact. The Daily desires that Michigan be the first university to produce a professionally directed motion picture of a story of college life actually laid on a college campus and to this end has signed a contract with a picture producing concern in the east and is sponsoring a scenario-^vriting campaign among the students. As soon as a suit* able story is submitted the camera-men will be put on the job and a five-reel "feature" picture pre duced. 
GEEELEYS OF CHINA ARE SOLOISTS. 
In a lecture before the Journalism class of Kansas 
U. recently a Chinese student of the school related the manner in which news is distributed in China to the people who cannot read. Professional news-tellers are employed to travel about the country and with the aid of several musicians the news is sung to the people in an inflected language. 
LUCKY? 

An infant, borrowed from the Oklahoma City 
orphanage is now being taken care of by six ^'mothers" at the Oklahoma Agricultural and/Me­chanical College. The mothers are six senior girls enrolled in the home economics class. The baby is kept in the model^ cottage and half a dozen girls for six weeks at a time take care of the cottage and its occupant. Oh yes! The baby's name is 
David. 
EAT HERE 
FOR THREE REASONS 

l.^Best Quality Food 3.—Price Lowest 3.—Service Finest 
SELF SERVICE AND TABLE SERVICE 
WASHINGTON 
Restaurant and Cafeteria 
Across from Court House 

The John Hale Hat Store 
SNAPPY HATS AND CAPS Haberdashery That Will Please You. 
Howard Schrop, THE HATTER 
127 Washington Ave. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA \ 

8-^ 
'&}& Hacre dame ^dhdasuc 
No. 126 
The First National Bank 
Soudi Bend, Indiana 
(Oliva Hold Bufldrng) 
apital. $600,000 Suiplusand Profit. $ 190.000 
A. L. HUBBARD, President. 
J. M. STUDEBAKER, JR., Vice-Pres. 
C. I.. ZIGLER, Cashier. 
C. J. WHITMER, Ass't. Cashier. 
J. W. BUZLEY, Ass'u. Cashier. 
SAFETY DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT AT REASONABLE PRICES. 
WE ISSUE FOREIGN EXCHANGE AT LOWEST 
MARKET RATES AND-LETTERS OF CREDIT 
PAYABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD. 
TRY OUR TRAVELERS' CHEQUES. 
YOU YOUNG MEN! 
ELECTRIC IRONS STUDENT LAMPS ELECTRIC HEATERS 
Electric Service Company 
II 5-n 7 W. Colfax. Back of City HaU 
JOIN OUR CHRISTMAS SAVINGS CLUB­
NOW OPEN. Twelve different, convenient plans for easy saving during 1922. Come in and let us ex­plain how simple our plan is—^to save a little each week and then have ample funds ,for Christmas next year. 
HOLY SMOKE. 
The girl across the way W^as talking To a friend, And the friend Asked her if she liked Indoor sports. And she said that she Was simply crazy About them. But that her father Made them leave Too early. 

A glowing candle in the nit (Chinese for night) Presents a cheerful sight But please don't think when you get lit That you are being bright. 
*** 

Prof:—What is HSQ? StUde:—Water. . Prof:—What is CH20? Stude:—Sea water. *** Doctor (on the phone) :—Hello, central, give me 812 Green. 
BroAxmson:—How far can a wild-cat jump Avith its tail tied to a tree? t Walsh:—The length of its tail. *** 
POETEY. And so the gloomy day wore on—^What's that heard you say? "What did the gloomy day wear on?" Why this—The close of day. *** Five makes a team of basketball (How 'weary my poor pen is) Nine is baseball. Twelve is football, Please tell me what tennis. *** 
IN HISTORY. Prof:—Where was the Declaration of Independ­ence signed? Dumbell:-^At the bottom. *** They say that sleeping in night air Gives beauty, and Old Age you'll cheat. Friend Bill the proof of this will bear, He's on a policeman's beat. *** 
Sorin:—^I donit like the, way some of the rooms 
CITIZENS ^'^^'^

Tnist and Savings out here are decorated. 
-^:r.':\ ^ ',.^^'!~.Tc^b ^lit'i-r^^rJi-^'-'-v-^ •> -,­
Corby:-^Not enough pictures? .
NEXT TO POST OFFICE 
Sorin:—Plenty, but not enough on. 

MsmM 
•-iu.-V.i , . 
A Wai'shite whose money was getting low and who ^at meal,times was trying to get the greatest amount of nourishment for the least expenditure, entered the cafeteria at breakfast time and said: 
"Got any rice?" The waiter's answer was in the affirmative. Said the Walshite, "Gimme a bowl. I ain't had 
any since supper." *** But it is true in this school that if you're corned you're canned. *** 
Prof:—Now I want you to explain the theory so that even the most ignorant of the class will under­stand it. 
Student:—I don't believe my rpom mate is here today. 
Father:—^Why didn't that young man leave earlier last night? Mabel:—^I was showing him some pictures of me and Bill. Father:—^Well, next time show him the light bill. That may help. 
*** Scene: Brownson slumber room. Time: Ten P. M. Brownsonite aU dressed up and sneaking through 
the door with the idea of attending a big dance 
down in the village. He is overtaken by the prefect. Prefect:—^Where are you going? 
, Student:—Back. *** A wooden legged man I think most surely must feel blue He is insured for accident but must take fire too. *** 
SUIT YOURSELF. 

bane Sweetie, you're my Femme, my jane 
pain You are like a constant. gain 
Churl To my happiness—my_ girl 
merle Your hue is of purest-pearl 
Hate All my flame for you is_ Fate 
gate Wedding? I'll give you the date KOLARS. 
SUBSCRIBE FOR THE 

"'M, 
>'-•" Y- '--^V^SS 
NEXT YEAR 

sS-Cl'-^k 
THE PRICE IS STILL 

-8i 
$2.00 
BUT IT WILL SOON BE 
$3.00 
, 

"'•.'-K.'z.--'"9^i 
TAKEYOURCUE 
AT 

Orpheum Pool RoOTn 
Sixteen Alleys 
Open One to Seven Suadajr* 
Five Tables 
THE WATERS C a 

Orpheum Bowline and ^Kw d Phone Linctdn 1949 21SN. 
E. J. WATERS, Mgr. SoirtlftBMMl, 
'^:xim 
^iX_"_] 
^ 
• ~,4»r^- ::>i'~-^*^?fei^i^ 

228 '^ e Nocre Same ^holascic 
^ There is not another store in South Bend better equipped to provide men with something suitable in the way of a Christmas present than Vernon's. 
^ Here you will find a great array of beautiful presents for riien. Vernon's is an all around men's store—^where you can shop pleasantly, economically and quickly. 
C| Let Vernon's take care of your Christmas 
wants. Come m and select your gifts. 
VERNON'S 
li Every Inch a Clothing Store. * * 
Ik Kable's Restaurants Gift 
Skp 

306-J0B . _104-106 N. Michifkn St. 119 W. Jefferson Blvd. S.MIC)W»N ST. laa W. WathtDKton Ave. ab6 Sa. Michtgaa St. apaeUl attentioii te tSie tomisbinK of students rooms THE "GUT SHOP" OF THE BETTER SORT 
Students' Note Books CLAUER'S 
Lefax Forms and Date Sheets at Jewelers, Silversmiths and Diamond The Herr & Herr Co. ^l^JiTst. Merchants 105 s. Michigan 
GEORGE WYMAN & CO. 
National Grocer Company 
Come aad See Us 
WHOLESALE GROCERS 
The Sooth Bend Home for Better Luggage. 


4oa-« South St. JoMph Street. South Bend. Indiana 
N. V. P. Trunks—Indestrncto Tronks 
"LIGHT BOUSE BRANDS"



Fine Hand Bags, Brief Cases, etc. 

For juicy Steaks and Chops TRY try 
"THE GRILL"—"MIKES" 

125 W. Wash. St. 105 E. Jeff. St. Men's Row for High-Grade Shirts, Neckwear, Hosiery, etc. Men's Row entrance—Center Street 
H. E. GROSS & SONS, Props. " ' • • • • 
tlie Nour<? Same §cholasCic A&CepciseinenCs 
For Christmas contentment Kuppenheim er 
Good Clothes 
pAR T of the satisfaction that you get on ••• Christmas day as you mingle among friends and relatives is the satisfaction which is gained through good appearance—the smart, prosperous quality appearance which a fine Kuppenheimer suit and overcoat can give. Such satisfaction is assured, because we are prepared with 
Uncommonly fine values at 
kCM 

Motor coats, great coats, storm coats, ulsters, ulsterettes, and sport models. You'll Hke their thick, warm fabrics, their generous roomy comfort, and their robust styling; staunchly tailored to keep you warm in the coldest weather. The suits—never have we shown a finer variety—beautifur fabrics—different patterns in new color tones. Big values—more quality for less money; $40, $45, $50, $55, $60, $65. 
the Christmas store for men 
LIVINGSTON'S 
^"the house of Kuppenheimer good Cliches. 
1 

Extra Fine Evening Clothes 
Dinners, dances, theatre parties —every mail probably brings new invitations to you. You'll have lots of use for evening clothes. 
Yoli'll find evening clothes at all sorts of prices; same as you find diamonds. Ours are extra fine and our stocks very complete. The best that Hart Schaffner & Marx make at— 
Others at $45 

Shirts, hats, jewelry—all correct accessories. 
Sam'l Spiro & Go. 
119-121 S. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind. 
HOUSE OF HART SCHAFFNER & MARX STYLISH ALL-WOOL CLOTHES 
r 
•Mi-^msi^i^ 













ovnemdnobastic 
DISCEQUASISEMPER-VICTVRVS VIVE- QUASI- CRAS-MORITVRVS 
Vol. LVI. FOOTBALL NUMBER No. 10 
THE SEASON'S REVIEW. 
JAMES P. COYLE. 

T hasn't happened—^the 1922 panic in the gridiron ranks of the Gold and Blue so freely predicted at the end of last year's season by the second-hand seers and singers of pigskin sagas the country over, The star-spangled achievements of the peer­less Rockne and his stellar squad of 1922 schedule of ten games which demanded twa . invasions of the East, a march to Georgia, and a trip to Nebraska in addition to those contests engaged in at home and on foreign fields nearby; games, every one of which  promised a stern taxing of our best gridiron  strength—^it was truly an hour of trial and  ebbing hopes; it did look as if Notre Dame  was due to swallow some of the medicine"  which had been prescribed in such generous  quantities by the all too numerous "Calamity 
have turned the laugh on doubt. Sporting critics gen­erally are re-mark­ing Notre Dame val­ues, are estimating again in terms of certainty, where a few months ago they were fumbling in speculative futures. 
It was a far cry from Icarus to Cap-roni—from the bush-man's telegraph to wireless, but intelli­
I 

THE SCHEDULE. Sept. 30—Notre Dame-46; Kalamazoo 0. 
I 

Oct. 7—Notre Dame 26; St. Louis U. 0. Oct. 14—Notre Dame 20; Purdue 0. 
Oct. 21—Notre Dame 34; DePauw 7. 
Oct. 28—Notre Dame 13; Georgia Tech 3 
Nov. 4—Notre Dame 27; Indiana 0. 
Nov, 11—Notre Dame, 0; Army 0. 
Nov. 18—Notre Dame 31; Butler 3. Nov. 25—Notre Dame 19; Carnegie Tech 0, Nov. 30—Notre Dame 6; Nebraska 14. 
I 
Janes  and  Johns."  
The thought of com­ 
pleting the  schedule  
without  one  defeat,  
yes without two de­ 
feats,  wa s  enter­ 
tained by few.  
Behind the failure?  
at  Lincoln  lies  a  
great nobility.  The'  
11 i I  team finds itself rich^ er for the discipline of defeat. There is no disgrace in losing; the disgrace is not  
trying. Who can say  


gence covered the distance. Persistence, coupled with ingenuity, finally feathered the wings that nature denied our kind, and de­veloped a talking spark to outreach the thunders. K. K. Rockne is the latest to prove that nothing can long resist full-flung determination. Phoenix-like, he has risen from the ashes of his last year's post-season disappointments, and from barren begin­nings has brought an inexperienced, but dog­ged and pertinacious handful of Sophomores to an unchallenged position in the world of football—and all this to the deafehing huzzas of wondering and credulous millions in sportdom. 
The skies did look cloudy for a while at the outset of the 1922 season. Facing a  that the Irish did not try? Facing a sea­ soned team of brawny veterans, outweighed  many pounds to the man, wearied by the  strain of a strenuous season,—a fighting  team of striplings went down to defeat, re­ sisting gamely the slashing onslaughts of an  older, stronger and—^yes—better team. And  so the tumult and the shouting die. It has  been a good year. Carberry, Castner, De­ gree, Thomas, Oberst and Desch are lay­ ing away their moleskins, are bidding the  chalk-lines cm revoir,—and we applaud these  departing gentlemen who have bequeathed  an estate of fighting loyalty. We can't esti­ mate the resources of the future. But in 
 1923 we shall again have Rockne and sound­ er prospects than ever before. 
'Sfie Noure 5ame Scholascie 
nmi;n.v;iiv;n^.;oi;iiu.nun.unv;itU-iiUiiuii^./iVUA<.;ii.u^^^ 

V= r ' i!?n^^7?^^rSt!f%Tli^§!^i£a2^^ ffS^ yff^5iiStJgBgIS?S?!^iSiMIiSSguSi^I^i^ti^^ I 
lsfi& Nocre 5ame Scholagric 
ROCKNE. 

Every Saturday afternoon for two full months, several thousand students have held their breaths for the space of about two hours, generally between two-thirty and four-thirty o'clock. But at every four-thiii;y, except the last one which happened to be on Thursday, there was a great sigh of relief, followed immediately by unprecedented 
•cheering,
 all the more prolonged and sten­torian because of the previous suspense. At the beginning of the season, not even the most sanguine would have dared to hope for such a happy consummation, as they glanced <iown the long list of the country's top-notch athletic schools and strove to realize that JSTotre Dame, shorn of all but fight and Eockne, was to be pitted against them. Now we all look back and declare that fight and liockne is all that Notre Dame need ever possess to bring her through.. We had taken the fight for granted because that is a tra­

•dition
 at Notre Dariie, but we were not quite .so sure that there ever, was a coach alive who would be able to perform athletic mir­acles. If there was, we had him, but we were not quite so sure that there was. Now we are inclined to think that Rockne, if he decided to try, could play Harvard by him­self. At least it is ^not unthinkable to put anything past the accomplishment of one who made three famous football teams out of several seniors and juniors and a great many sophomores. It has not been done before, and will never be done again unless, of course, Rockne will have to do it. At any event, at another" univei'sity three times as large as ours, there is a coach that had the same opportunity as did our coach, and his team was beaten by one that we swamped. 


Rockne's Notre Dame connections extend over a period of ten years. This decade, coupled with a half dozen years previous to it, has marked the most brilliant span in Notre Dame football history. During the three years when Rock played end on the team not one game was lost, while victories were scored over such teams- as Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania State and West •P9int (35-13). Two of the very greatest teams that have represented our university' on the afield were the nationally famous 1921 team^ coached by 
Rock, and the 1913 team which was cap­tained by him. It was with this latter team, that he and Dorais introduced the perfected forward pass to the country, a style of game-that has contributed much to his fame, and. as equally much to the grey hair of a mul­titude of rival mentors. 
Characteristic of the man at that time, of course, was a certain genuine modesty coupled with a really studious disposition. Some person attached to this institution at present would marvel, indeed, if they looked into the grades which their hero made in silence during his college days, or found out how able an instructor in chemistry he was to become later on. Virtually track-coach during his Senior year and doing the im­possible by beating his own record in the pole-vault by a good foot, Rockne was no less active in Reactions. 
Iromediately after having.served his full three years in the moleskins, Rockne was made assistant coach under Jesse Harper, and when that renowned mentor retired to his ranch somewhere out west, Rocke took full control. He has undoubtedly the most enviable record of any of the younger coaches in the land. In five seasons, teams built up by him have lost but three games, two of which were much more like victories than defeats, if yardage and first downs count for anything. During those same five seasons Notre Dame has registered forty-two victories, victories which mean some­thing, because Rockne invariably frames dif­ficult schedules for his team. 
If, heretofore, there was any doubt in any­one's mind about Rock's super-ability, little room is left now for it, when, facing the hardest schedule in our gridiron history, with the poorest prospects we have had for many a year, Knute literally created a ma­chine which has been the talk of fandom from coast to coast. Of course, a great meed of praise and credit is due to Notre Dame fight and the Notre Dame men who went through this season's mill, but we all admit that Notre Dame could not have Rockmen Y\rithout Rockne. We believe that, while they are picking their Ail-Americans, the critics might as well open up a new position on their mythical eleven and choose our own Knute K. Rockne for its All-American coach. 
'^ e Noure ^m e Seholasck 
NOW THAT IT'S OVER. FRANK WALLACE. CANTO 1. THE INFERNO OF 1922. 
Ajrgwnent. 

The Spirit of Notre Dame football, having lost his way in a gloomy forest and being hindered by certain wild beasts from ascend­ing a mountain, is met by Rockne, who un­dertakes the task of leading him from the forest. The Spirit follows the coach. 
In the midway of this, our mortal life, 
I found me in a gloomy wood, astray, 
Gone from the path direct: and e'en to tell 
It were no easy task, how savage wild 

That forest, how robust and rough its growth. 
Which to remember only, my dismay, 
Renews in bitterness not far from death. 
Yet to discourse of what there good befell 
All else will I relate discover'd there. 
How first I entered it my memory well 

Recalls: How graduation took from me Most valiant men; and that dire tempter of 
The college man hooked others. So I found 
My senses down and victory's path bereft. 
I journey'd on over that lonely steep 

The hinder foot grew firmed. Scarce the ascent 
Began, when, lo! A panther, nimble light 

With yellow jacket screaming: "Gawgia Tech!" 
To check my onward going; that oft-times. 
With purpose to retrace my steps I turned. 
And by new dread succeeded when in view 
An army mule came braying as he strode 
With his head held aloft and hunger mad 

That e'en the air was fear-struck. At his heels. 
An elephant, who in his leanness seemed 
Full of all wants, and loving Irish corn 

A Cornhusker who many fields had stripped 
Of victory's corn ere now. So haunted by 
These fell beasts growling, anguishedly 
I fell, my ken discerned the form of one 

Whose voice seemed strong in constant use of 
speech. 

When him in that great desert I espied, "Have mercy on me," cried I out aloud. He answered, then: "At Notre Dame my son We go out and crack 'em! We're not licked Though others here have died. Snap into it." Then I: "Thou are that Rockne, that well­
spring From which such copious floods of eloquence Have issued? And such fame amassed? O grave Where is thy sting? "Oh death! Thy victory?" 
#• 
DEGREE. 
STANCE. 

J I% 
is 
LAYDEN. 
STUHLDREHER. 

'^e Nocre5ameScholascic 
THE KEST OF THE CANTOS. 

An increasingly attentive public had turned toward Notre Dame in other years because of the glory of its football achieve­ments and the brilliant products of the grid­iron who sprang from this atmosphere as certain plants grow best in certain soils. When this season began interest was more than ever keen because of the lack of what excited that attention in other years—bril­liant football men. 
Knute Rockne remained as a master coach. Paul Castner lingered as the potentially great nucleus of another team. Capt. Car-berry, Cotton, Degree, Thomas, Brown, Mayl, Maher, Bergman and Flynn were the remnant of the really great eleven of the previous year—an eleven which had, with the exception of Castner and Thomas, dis­appeared in its entirety. 
Whoever thought football at all, found in­clination to wonder whether this unusual coach and his famous school could create an­other troop of gridiron wonders. 
The season has ended. Coach Rockne is rated among the three great coaches of the year—and a frank estimate of the-thoughts of the football public might strip the car­riage of two. Notre Dame rode the top wave of enthusiastic and wondering admiration until late in the season, when Army tied us and Nebraska won from us. The momen­tary loss of prestige suffered upon the occas­ion of each game has more than returned in the backwash which brought a realization of the great odds under which Rockne and the team worked on. 
More continuous ill fortune than has vis­ited the last ten Notre Dame teams visited this group of boys until the squad with which Coach Rockne faced Nebraska in­cluded only Frank Thomas and Eddie De­gree of previous years. Cotton, Capt. Car­beiy and Brown saw some service during the game but ail were recovering from in­juries. The two gi'eat stars of the team— one the best fullback in America, and the other a possible all-American tackle had he not been injured early in the season, were kept out of the lineup. 
The real achievement of the season was not the victory over Georgia Tech, the moral decision over the Army and a sensational second-half comeback which all but com­pleted what would have been the greatest victory of the decade; it was the spirit with which Rockne's boys met each new obstacle. Be they Swedes, Italians, German or Irish in descent, they are as worthy of the name of Fighting Irish as any group of men who ever bore the title. They were called upon to face great physical odds, to meet psycho­logical disadvantages and to combat demor­alizing influences, but they went out and gave each situation all that they had—and no man can do more. Their simple motto was the phrase of Coach Rockne: 
I S 
VERGERA REAGAN FLINN DESCH 
9
I 

•iliii -11 -~ r r " r ~ " ~ ~ "—' ~ — "———"—~—~—————————"*—•••••^—°-^— 
^7­

'^ e Notre ^ame Schdascic 
"Not men willing to die gamely but men fighting to live." 
This group will bear brilliant testimony for Notre Dame and themselves in the two years just ahead. A backfield already bril­liant, two ends and a center who seem on the threshold of the bright lights, guards and tackles awaiting only development—^the group of sophoirores who plaj^ed life-saver to Coach Eockne and Notre Dame in their most tlii'eatening hour, seem destined to he recognized as one of the really great com-V>inations in the history of the school. 
Paul Castner, sailing towards a probable ail-American selection, played the most con­sistent and versatile football shown at Notre Dame in the last five years with the excep­tion of George Gipp—and there were some who considered that the brilliant Paul might have seriously rivalled Gipp if his career had run an equal length. Tom Lieb, the other strong possibility for national honors, was cut down in the third game of the season. Capt. Carberry, after a strong beginning during which he displayed the defensive ability for which he has been noted, was in­jured at Georgia Tech and the hurt slowed him up until the season ended. Ed Degree was out for two weeks with a torn shoulder, Fod Cotton played his final two games with a painfully injured side, Kentucky Oberst was affected by battered ribs throughout the year, Red Maher broke a hand in the second game and did not return until six weeks later. Gus Desch went out on the second play of the season and, after a futile try five weeks later, was compelled to abandon the game. 
Rating the brilliant sophomores is difficult, happily, because their ability seemed so 
.nearly equal. In the backfield, Don Miller jumped to an immediate claim on right half, a position which he held throughout the year and where he played always consistent and sometimes brilliant football. Harry Stuhl­dreher stepped ahead at quarterback and played the greater part of the big games al­though Thomas started every contest and played good ball all season. Stuhldreher en­ters more into the actual play than any Notre Dame quarterback of recent years. He throws passes and receives them in addition to performing the conventional duties and exercising fine judgment. No better bundle of football, for his poundage, has ever been at Notre Dame. 
Elmer Layden was the beautifully consist­ent jewel. In early season, he played a sec­ond string halfback to Jimmie Crowley and delivered so steadily that Coach Rockne used him at left half throughout most of the Army game where Elmer responded with his best performance of the year. When Cast­ner was injured, Layden went to fullback where his triple threat, ability to punch a line and his unusual speed promise to aid him in developing into the successor of Gipp, Mohardt and Castner. 

FLYNN BERGMAN OBERST KISER 
J 


'Sfie Noure &ame Schdascic 
Jimmy Crowley—a mystery. By playing 

sensational football at Purdue, Crowley 
walked past Layden and Bergman in the 
fight for left half. The next week against 
DePauw he rose to greater heights—and 
then played ordinary ball until late season 
when he approached his eaily season form in 
the games with Butler, Carnegie and Ne-. 
braska. Crowley has more instinctive abili­
ty, seemingly, than any of his running 
mates. The development of this quartet of 
brilliant backs during the next two years 
will furnish an interesting study. 
Doc Connell played a steady game at right half in the shock backfield. Bill Cerney and Bernie Livergood divided the second string-fullback job during the season and Dutch Bergman played consisted ball. Mike Kane .narrowly missed a monogram and showed the best form of his career. Rex Enright, a third string fullback, and Les Logan at quarterback, showed creditable games when 
called upon. 
After Tom Lieb broke his leg at Purdue, the burden of the line work fell upon Fod Cotton and Ed Degree—and the two veter­ans came through with an ability that has been recognized in the selection of honor­ary teams. Until Nebraska was met, no team had made serious gains through the Notre Dame line—^and the moral support and strong bodies of these two boys who completed their football careers this year, has been mainly responsible. Harvey pjrown played his same fighting game and was a recognized star, despite his lack" of pounciage, until the bones of his elbow were dislocated at the Army scrap and he went out for the rest of the year with the excep­tion of a handicapped stay against Nebraska where he battled the giant Weller, who out-v\^eighed Harvey 65 pounds but never out­fought him for a minute. 
Gene Oberst, who rose from a flock of sub­stitutes to fill Tom Lieb's tackle, improved steadily as the year progTessed and received wann praise from Coach Rockne following the Nebraska game. George Vergara won the right end job early and promises to de­velop into a mechanically perfect player next season. Gene Mayl relieved Vergara at end in every game. Paul McNulty, who became regular left end after Capt. Carberry was hurt, is regarded very highly by his team­mates who expect him to become the next of the great Notre Dame ends. Chuck Collins is another promising end who relieved McNulty. Hunsinger, Tim Murphy, Feltes and Cook completed the string of wing men. 
Gus Stange and Rip Miller, two powerful boys, served throughout the year as second string tackles and each.seems to hold strong possibilities. John Flynn, Milbauer and Roux completed the tackleS^ who finished the year. Weibel replaced Harvey Brown with credit when the latter was hurt. Neil Flinn and Noble Kizer also earned monograms at guard. 
.auaa^lui MBBUU •  -DN^-^UI^—Btl­ -en —^im-^ w^—Ml—mi— ^ tw ^^iw—^ioi "^iM — " •»"  
1  MIXON  LOGAN  WEIBLE  EIESE  
I- 

—• 

-^^­
'^ e Nocre ^ame ^cholascie 
The center position was still undecided when the season closed, Regan, a 165-pound junior, had an edge until mid-season over Walsh, 180-pound sophomore, but at the Army game and until Nebraska, Walsh re­ceived first call. Regan came back strong against Nebraska and both boys seemingly start next year with, an even break. Bill Voss, kept out of the early games -^vith an injured ankle, showed well as the season ended. Joe Harmon, a light sophomore, is another scrappy center who will be heard from before he leaves school. Leo Mixon completed the quintet of centers. 
THE SEASON. 

Kalamazoo came here Sept. 30 in the time-honored opening daj'' contest and returned with the short end of a 46-0 score. Paul Castner ran two kickoffs back 90 and 95 yards for touchdowns and displayed other capabilities. Don Miller, Red Maher and Jimmie Crowley also added glamour to the day. Gus Desch pulled a tendon in the sec­ond play and went out for the year. 
St. Louis came in a drizzly rain to Car­tier field the next week and played the local team to a standstill in the first half during which Castner scored the only touchdown following runs by Crowley and Thomas. In the second half, Don Miller ran through the entire St. Louis team for 94 yards and a touchdown following the kickofF. He added other sensational runs for another touch­down and Stuhldreher punched the line for a fourth marker. Red Maher broke a hand in this game and Eddie Degree received a torn shoulder which kept hun out for three weeks. 
The first real contest of the j^ear was-staged at Lafayette on the following Satur­day where Rockne's boys trimmed Jimmie Phelan's Boilermakers 20-0 with the Notre Dame student body looking on. The game was hard fought and the Irish line took a considerable pounding. Tommy Lieb who played great ball until that time, was clip­ped from behind after the whistle blew, suf­fered a broken leg and by his absence from the game for the rest of the year may have made possible the Army tie and the Ne­braska defeat. Jimmie Crowley flashed some brilliant running in this contest. Cast­ner performed with his consistent ability and Stuhldreher exhibited for the first time, the passing which was to score points against other teams as the year went on. 
Coach Rockne set to work to find another tackle during the next week and Gene Oberst, the rangy Kentucky 200 pounder, resulted. Castner received a slight injuiy at Purdue and Don Miller was hurt in practice, so the first string backfield was kept out of the De-Pauw game in order to, be in shape for the Georgia Tech game of the next week. The game moved slowly against DePauw until Crowley went in; after which his presence acted as a barometer for the rest of the 




i t-
t 
R. MILLER CROWLEY COUGHLIN COTTON 
I 
i 
'^ e Noure S)ame Scholascie 
squad. He ran 65 and 35 yards for sensa­tional touchdowns and contributed other gains in the 34-10 score which caused his running to be compared to that of Gipp. Cer­ney, at fullback, contributed a 94-yard run for a touchdown from kickoff and Stuhl­dreher and Mayl each added another touch­down. Layden, Bergman, Logan and Liver-good made runs of 25 yards and more. 
The next game with Georgia Tech was the first high mark of the season and the game toward which the young Irish had been pointed. The Yellow Jackets had never been defeated on" their home grounds by a north­ern team and seenied to possess some sort of an unholy edge in their own backyard. Warm weather, stage fright and what not were feared in this game which was recognized OS the season's test tube. 
When the boys came through with a 13-3 by the simple process of stopping Red Bar­ron, the Georgia star, their greatest all-round game of football of the year was dis­played by Rockne's kids that day. Degree and Cotton performed brilliantly on the de­fense and Captain Carberry was in the thick of the battle until he was forced out in the first quarter with a knee injury which handi­capped him for the rest of the year. McNulty, who went in for the captain, made the prettiest tackle of the season on Red Barron in the open field. Vergara played clean ball on the other end. 
Oifensively, the flashy backfield was never better. Castner proved himself the big star of the game by playing effective ball in all departments. Stuhldreher tossed the first touchdown to Castner back of the goal line and then sneaked through for the second marker following flashy runs by Don Miller and Layden. True to form, the team famous for its passing, gave the southerners a les­son in overhead. 
Socially, the trip was an unexpected suc­cess. The boys liked the south and the south liked the boys and asked them to return-Tech will come here next season for the Homecoming game. 
The Indiana contest of the next week, was vv^elcomed by 18,000.homecomers who saw Paul Castner turn in the greatest individual game of the gridiron year. Doing every­thing perfectly, Paul scored three touch­downs, kicked the three tries for points^ made successful drop-kicks from the 45 and 35-yard lines and included one 68-yard punt in his total. Layden and Miller, particularly Miller, gathered the little glory that Castner left after scoring the only 27 points made that day. 
Then followed the'Ai-my and the no score tie which appeared at that time to be the only blot on the record for the year. We outplayed Anny slightly and we advanced the ball on an irresistible series of charges to the three-yard line where a fumble oii second down cost that much-to-be-desired victory. Castner, again, was the star of the 
I 
THOMAS MAYL COLLINS VOSS 
]
I 
'^ e Nocre 6ame Scholascic 
battle, although he was so closely watched by the Army that his more sensational stunts — particularly drop-kicking — were smothered. The big warrior took a beating that day but stood head above the field when the game was concluded. Don Miller and Layden played steady ball offensively but ex­cept on the drive which preceded the fumble —a drive good for 60 yards, the Soldier de­fense was too good. 
Cotton and Degree stood out in the local line, with Brown, until the little warrior was led off with dislocated bones in his elbow. West Point considered the tie a moral vic­tory—^though we were outweighed some 12 pounds to the man—so we'll have to go back 
-to the Polo Grounds next year and settle that little affair. . After which came Butler from our neigh­boring city of Indianapolis. Butler had 
^turned in a 10-7 defeat of Illinois early in the year and after polishing off Wabash, thought themselves capable of challenging Notre Dame in a real battle. There was much talk so we had to rub it in a little with a 32-3 score. Willie Maher ran 88 yards from a kickoff for a touchdown and added other sensational dashes. Crowley returned to his early season form and Don Miller, Layden, Bergman and Stuhldreher contrib­uted flashy runs. 
But the g-ame cost. We lost Paul Castner on the day when he had played the greatest football of his career—greater than at 
Georgia Tech or Army or against Indiana. Castner ran like a shifty halfback that day —^he passed, he received passes and he punted—doing them all well. At the mo­ment when he was approaching the top form to which his tv/o years' preparation had led —just before the important games with Carnegie Tech and Nebraska where he would have had had ample opportunity to capital­ize his magic into an ail-American prize— the mighty football man, the Christian gen­tleman, the inspiration to any college man and credit to any college—was carried from the field with a fractured pelvis—^the victim of a knee delivered after the play had stop­ped and when he was lying in an unprotected position. Let the man who did it decide whether or not it was intentional; another Notre Dame player declares that it appar­ently intentional. Whether or not, a player whose name will never be known out of In­dianapolis, deprived the game of the great­est fullback of the year—and to our mind; at least—a player who would have seriously rivalled George Gipp, if his career had been allowed to go on. 
The squad took Castner's loss in the face of its two approaching games with Carnegie Tech and Nebraska, with the same spirit which had marked their acceptance of the loss of Lieb, Brown, Carberry and Desch. Coach Rockne put it to them as a challenge —and the crew went to Carnegie Tech the r.ext Saturday, played in a snow storm on a 
' ^'~~'^-^''——'«'^—m——m^—m-^m'^m^—m—~m——m^—m^—m^—mi^—m'—'m^—m-—-m^—m^—a^—w^—m^—m^—m^—m^—m^—m^—im--^u—~mi^—m^—m^~m'——m'^—m:^--aJff 
McNULTY BROWN WALSH FELTES 
'^ e Nocre 5ame Schdascic 308 
snowy field on a cold day—and delivered one of the surprising scores of the year, 19-0. Don Miller, Crowley, Layden, Stuhldreher and Bergman ran wild around the Tartan ends while a defensive line composed largely of second string men, Stange and Miller in­cluded, stopped Jimmy Robertson, the high point scorer of the east and prevented Tech f i*om entering the Notre Dame 30-yard zone. 
Out weighed nearly 20 pounds to the man, travel-worn and seriously crippled by injur­ies, but confident nevertheless, the team in­vaded Lincoln, Neb., on the following Thurs­day, Thanksgiving Day, and met the only defeat of the season, 14-6. Nebraska had the better team that day. The Cornhuskers had been pointed for Notre Dame through­out the season and were plainly at the top of their game. They utilized their weight advantage in terrific line plunging early in the first quarter but were stopped on the two foot line by a determined stand of the light Notre Dame line which held for two downs without gain. Degree punted out of danger, seemingly, but the powerful Huskers ran the ball back to the goal and plunged for a touchdown as the second quarter began. The second score came as the period ended and followed a forward pass. 
Notre Dame made but one first down in the first half and was completely outplayed in that part of the game. In the second half, the boys came back with the most sensa­tional passing attack of two seasons. Stuhl­dreher, Layden, Miller, Crowley, Vergara and McNulty performed heroically with" Stuhldreher and Miller, earning the f"|i value of that word. The rally ended with one touchdown and the ball but two yards shy of a second score. When the Notre Dame star had risen, Nebraska seemed pow­erless; but when a break in the game gave. the Cornhuskers the ball on their own two-­yard mark, their early vigor returned and-they resisted further scoring. 
So the game was lost. Outweighed by 20 pounds, travel-stained and crippled by the loss of the two gTeat stars, Castner and Lieb^ the Rockne lightweights came back in the second half with a fighting splash that need­ed only a break or two here and there to swing a victory our way for all of the en^ my superiority. 
But neither the team nor^ the school was greatly downcast by the loss. In full, it was a great season and the new team far. more than fulfilled expectations. In the coming two years, the Army tie and the Nebraska defeat will be forgotten in the achievements of a wonderful group of young athletes. 
At the season's end, monogramsv were awarded to the following men: Capt. Car-berry, McNulty, Collins, Mayl, Vergara,. Lieb, Oberst, Ed Miller, Stange, Cotton, Brown, Degree, Kizer, Flinn, Weibel, Regan, Walsh, Stuhldreher, Thomas^ Layden, Berg­man, Crowley, Maher, Don Miller, Connel, Cerney, Livergood, Castner. 
I i 
MURPHY 1 MAHER KANE LIVERGOOD 
I 
> -<» 
——————————*- ™————————————— 
TSfie Noure fbame Schdasuc 
All-Western Gridiron Honor Men for 1922 
By W. F. Fox, Jr., Assistant Sports Editor Indianapolis News. 

POSITION .  ­  FIRS T  TEAM .  SECON D  TEAM .  THIR D  TEAM .  
Left end  Kirk (Mich.)  Ecklund  (Minn.)  Pulaski  (Wis.)  
Left tackle  Weller (Neb.)  Cotton (N. D.)  Wencke (Neb.)  
Left guard  Degree (N. D.)  McMillen (111.)  Hohfield  (Wis.)  
Center  Blott (Mich.)  Heldt (Iowa)  King (Chicago)  
Eight guard  -Minnick (Iowa)  Bassett  (Neb.)  Pondelik  (Chicago)  
Right tackle....  ..-.Thompson (Iowa)  Below  (Wis.)  Penfield (Northwest.)  
Kight end  . -  Tebell (Wis.)  Kadesky (Iowa)  Goebel (Mich.)  
Quarterback  Uteritz (Mich.)  Dunn (Marquette)  Barr  (Wis.)  
Left  half  Martineau (Minn.)  Williams (Wis.)  Palmer  (Northwest.)  
Eight  half....  .....Noble (Neb.)  Kipke (Mich.)  . .  Worlanan (Ohio S.)  
Fullback  ...Castner  (N. D.)  J. Thomas (Chi.)  Locke  (Iowa)  
HONORABLE  MENTION.  

Ends—Griffin, Kansas; Hanny, Indiana; Irish, Quarterbacks—Eune Clarke, Illinois; Stuhldreher, Wisconsin; McNulty, Notre Dame; Cox, Minnesota. Notre Dame; Parkin, Iowa. Tackles—Aul, Wabash; Lunz, Marquette; Cave, ai. 4^^ ..i. T - HT r. n/r-Kansas- Smith Wisconsin Halfbacks—Shuttleworth, Iowa; McCreery, Mm­Guards-Beriuist, Nebraska; Pixley, Ohio State; nesota; Hartley, Nebraska; Miller, Notre Dame; Hahn, Kansas Aggies. ^l*'^*^' Indiana; Crowley, Notre Dame. Centers—^Nichols, Wisconsin; Claypool, Purdue; Fullbacks—Caijpon, Michigan; Taft, Wisconsin;. Eorhei, Indiana; Walsh, Notre Dame. Wellman, Purdue; Zorn, Chicago. 
Selecting an All-Western honor team for except that Tebell was selected over Eck­the season of 1922 is pretty much like choos­lund of Minnesota because of his splendid ing a present for a plumber's daughter. But defensive work at critical times. Tebell has because the senate of the United States has the slightest of edges on Ecklund, so trivial been too busy with less urgent matters there that Ecklund might be substituted without has been passed no law against sporting any loss to the team. Kirk, the greatest re­writers picking All This and All That foot­ceiver of forward passes playing college foot­ball teams; so the practice continues. ball today, is a first string man on any All 
Some will say the public demands it but team anybody selects. Incidentally he might they are not telling the half of it if they have been used more on a better forward stop there. The public does far more than passing eleven. demand it. The public actually does the Anyone who has seen Weller play won't picking. First they pick it for you, that is argue about his right to honor. Thompson part of the public does this. Then the se­of Iowa drives harder than any other tackle lection is published and the rest of the pub­we have seen this year. Cotton of Notre lic picks it to pieces. Dame and Below of Wisconsin might slip in­
But just the same the public must have its to Thompson's place well enough but this mythical teams rain or shine and we are will­fellow Weller is in a class by himself. ing to wager our next week's wages plus all Blott, Heldt and King and Nichols of Wis­the Yuletide prospects that our All West-consin are about on a par at the center job. cm will defeat any football team in the Blott is a wonderful tackier and was an im­<jountry after thirty minutes* practice. portant factor in stopping Wisconsin when 
In a few instances it may be that some failure to do so would have been disastrous critics would crave a little explanation for for the Wolverines. Heldt is a speedy man some of the first team positions. As for and a reliable passer and Nichols was one of Xirk and Tebell there can be nothing said the seven towers that composed the strongest 
'^ e Noure 5ame Scholasci c 30& 
line in the conference this year, that of the 
Badgers. 
There was no oustanding quarterback^ in 
the west this season. Uteritz revealed 
splendid judgment in directing the Wolver­
ine attack at all times and got the most out 
of a rather ordinary assortment of plays. 
Dunn of Marquette was a factor in elevat­
ing Marquette to a rather high rating and 
against Detroit he flashed repeatedly in open 
field running. He is perhaps the most re­
liable field goal man at his position with 
the exception of Herb Covington of Centre. 
Stuhldreher of Notre Dame is a comer. He 
does everything but kick and although one 
of the smallest men in the west he was cool 
at all times under fire. Barr's experience 
and short passing to a point of perfection 
gave him the call over Rockne's pet field 
boss. 
And from here on in our first team is most 
excellent. Martineau who would rather do 
anything else in the world does everything 
but hurdle the goal posts when on the grid­
iron. He is fast, a good long or short passer, 
a splendid kicker and a streak in the open 
field. Noble of Nebraska weighs 199 pounds 
and is as fast as any small man on any team. 
Give him the ball and he'll get there regard­less of obstacles. He is the hardest man to tackle we have seen this year and a light sec­ondary defense bounces off him like rubber" balls in fierce contact with cement. 
Paul Castner was perhaps the outstanding 
football player in the west. Although de­prived of participation in the last two games Notre Dame had to play Castner established himself in games against Georgia Tech and "Army. He is a unique definition of triple threat. He punts, drop kicks, passes, runs, tackles, directs a defense, kicks off and runs interference to perfection. He is not the type that weakens a team when he is not carrying the ball himself In fact if we were asked to nam.e the best all around football man of the season of 1922 Castner would be 
the man. 
TWELVE MEN, TRIED AND TRUE. 
THE CAPTAIN-JUDGE. 
The Judge and his brothers seem always to be. on the end of things. Two older brothers played end for the University of Iowa a few years back and two j^ounger brothers are now playing end on the high school team at Ames. Nevertheless the Judge, when on the football field, was always in the middle of tilings, rather than on the end, and was continxi­ally messing up the opposing runners. There was no denying the sldU and the certainty with which Carberry stopped opposing runners. 
Off the field he walks like a soldier and on the field he fights like a soldier. Had it not been for the untimely accident which he had in the long memorable game with Georgia Tech, Carberry vvould have left behind him a record stiU more en­viable than that he now enjoys. Judge played only part of the first quarter in the Tech game, but during the few minutes of that period, he lost all his judicial dignity and reserve, and .cracked 'em hard, until the injury to his knee forced him out of the game. Not until the Butler game could the Judge play, but he went after them with the fury of his pent-up energy, and acted no small part in that spectacular fray. -­
We shall not ever forget the Judge. He shall,. rather, be placed on the roster of football captains of Notre Dame and remembered as one of the honored men whose names and prowess are syn­onymous wdth Notre Dame. 
PAUL CASTNER. 
"Shades of Eichenlaub and Salmon!'" quavered the '21 Dome in commenting upon Castner's ability and possibilities for the future. The confidence and prophecy of the Dome writer were not in vain be­cause Cas has won for himself the unstinted praise and love of every Notre Dame man and of many. 
College does not make fools; it merely de­velops them. Great men are easily admired but not eas­ily emulated. 
'^e Nocre 5ame Scholastic 
many men not at Notre Dame. Who of us who 
saw the Tech game will forget his splendid work 
and who of us who had to be content with seeing 
the game at the Senior movies, will forget that 
sweet, fleeting glimpse of his deadly passing? More 
than this, who of us will forget his last appearance 
on Cartier Field, at the Homecoming game, when 
he startled the 22,000 onlookers with his 45-yard 
drop-kicking? And lastly, who of us will forget his 
last spectacular fight at Indianapolis, when an un­
timely injury to his hip cut short his brilliant career 
and spoiled his unusually good chances of getting 
in the graces of Walter Camp. 
Paul may not appear on Camp's coveted honor roll, but all Notre Dame swears to his All-Ameri­can qualities. We look forward to his work as captain and pitcher of our baseball team and poss­ibly to his work as star of the hockey team. And we can say of Paul no more complimentary thing than that he is true blue, a Notre Dame man. 
ED DEGREE. 
If, during any Notre Dame game these last two years, you saw a 65-yard punt, and the punt was right-handed, or rather right-footed, you could be sure that Ed Degree was on the job. Because whenever Castner and his left-footed kicking was not in the fray, Degree's equally good right-footed punting was resorted to. Many the time this last year that we have sat in the stands and chuckled joyfully at the sight of two Notre Dame men non­chalantly punting the ball from end to end of the iield. It seemed to be a necessary part of every :game to awe the opposing teams with this display of kicking prowess. 
Yet chronic. kicker that he was in every game. Degree was yet more powerful in a line weakened "by the loss of Lieb and Cotton. Anecdotes are legion of Ed's spectacular tackles during his three years in the line. Ed's hulking figure and mental alertness mil be sorely missed in just about nine months from now. V/e can rejoice, however, in the comfort of his j)resence behind the bat during the baseball season. 
GUS DESCH. 
The jinx which hung over the team could not have been complete without the injury which de­prived the team, of the speed and the fight which is G^us. Gus was the "first to go the way of martyred football men. The season Avas not yet underway,. the second play of the opening game with Kala­mazoo not yet done, when snap! Gus' anlde bone was slivered and the little flash was through with football. However, Gus and Rock and Notre Dame and the doctors did their.very best and it was not until several weeks after that we gave up hope 
and began our soliloquy, "It might have been ." All New York City read a year ago the laudatory accounts of Desch's performance In the Rutgers game. All New York City, too, might have read this year of a man who has no peer for speed. 
Nevertheless, Gus and Notre Dame are proud of 
the monograms he won for himself in previous years as a flash halfback and world-champion quarter-mile hurdler, and the Monogram Club is justly proud of its president, Augustus Desch. God and the doctors willing, Gus will run again next spring. 
THOMAS LIEB. 
Only two years has Tom played oi\ the varsity eleven and the second season was barely under way when the consistent jinx over the team left Tom 
with a broken leg, received during the first quarter of the Purdue battle. Many a Notre Dame man sat in the stands during that game and, vidth an ache at heart, watched the toiling doctors bind the broken leg, watched Tom laugh bravely as he was being carried off the field, and hoped with a silent prayer that Tom's laugh was laughed in the full knowledge that his leg was not broken and that he would play again. -, 
But an unkind fate forced upon Tom his unwel­come crutches and his chafing inactivity and^ im­potency. The climax of the pathetic experience came that morning at the railroad station when Rockne, with his team on board the train headed for Atlanta, said "Come on, Tom, you're going!" Tom went, crutches, flannel shirt and corduroys and all, and many a proud tear glittered 'in the eyes of the assembled crowd which cheered and marvelled at this proud, deflant display of the undying Notre Dame spirit. 
Such was Tom's last, unwelcome year on the team. 
^ e Nocre 5ame S"cbola8cic 
and such is Tom's envied place in the hearts of his fellowmen. We look forward to more records for him as discus-thrower, and we look backward on more respect for him than is the lot of many a Notre Dame man. 
FKANK THOMAS. 
"The Eat" has been with us three years on the 
varsity squad, the first year as understudy to 
Brandy and Grant. Last year Tommy reached the 
height of his career, being regular quarterback. This 
year he played a more conservative game and 
yielded some of the glory accruing the position of 
quarterback to the undeniable upstart, Stuhl­
dreher. Still Tommy was always in the game, with 
the fight that is necessary to every Notre Dame 
football man, and that is expected of him. 
On the field, Thomas always displayed the reserve 
and the sense of power held in check, that are 
characteristic of him. Every man in the Notre 
Dame stands these last two years has known all 
along that Tommy out on the field was using his 
head, and has been confident that the right play 
at the right time would result from Tommy's wily 
generalship. 
Tommy's ability as an athlete will go unnoticed 
until next spring when his maneuvers around sec­
ond base will bring him once more into the public 
eye. 
FOREEST COTTON. 
Fod's name is a misnomer as regards his playing. 
If the names of players are any indication of their 
playing, Fod's name should have been Stonewall or 
Old Ironsides. Fod is not quite as bulky as tackles 
often run but he vindicated in every game Eockne's 
confidence in light tackles with plenty of speed and 
gray matter. In the beginning of the season Cotton ' 
was handicapped by injuries and got olf to a slow 
start, but when he got going, everyone knew the 
team was the better and the line the stronger for 
his presence. 
Fod served two patient years as reserve lineman, in the days when Shaw and Garvey and Dooley made the going rough for all competitors. His patience was well rewarded this year in the enjoy­ment of a successful year and a place in the an­nals of our great men. He is quiet and reserves all his 'athletic energy for the gridiron. 
LES LOGAN. 
And now comes Eafferty. From the 1921 Dome Les glares at you from the section labelled "Ee­serves," standing arms akimbo and frowning, as if from the interruption. To have been even a re­serve quarterback in those days was a credit, when the well-remembered work of Brandy and Grant and Thomas, kept the light and inexperienced soph from attracting more attention. 
Les kept everlastingly at it with good results. His success in his junior year brought a smile to his picture in the '22 Dome and his increasing success this year has brought a smile to the face of more than one person. Les and his roomie, the Eat, and Stuhlie shared honors at the quarterback position^ And now, vfith. the football season at an end, Eaf­ferty is concentrating upon a more spectacular per­formance on the basketball court. He is sure ta please as much as he did this fall when his work brought smiles of appreciation and admiration to the faces of more people than his Mary Jo. 
JOHN FLYNN. 
Big John is a man of many deeds, and his deeds 
have brought him recognition in many lines, not. 
the least of which is the athletic line, or, more con­
cretely, the football line. John tackled a big job 
when he set his mind on tackling opposing teams 
and competing tackles, but he acquitted himself 
nobly and earned for himself a monogram in foot­
ball as well as in track. John, you see, tackles the 
shot-put also. 
We can be sure of many points in the track 
scoring next spring when big John tosses the pebble 
around the lot. 
NEIL FLINN. 
And now comes the last of the Captains. Neil Flinn is already well-known to Notre Dame as cap­tain of the hockey team and as substitute lineman during the last two seasons. Neil has not risen to the heights of recognition enjoyed by others of the senior football men, but he has shown a consistent application and serious spirit which will undoubt­edly stand him in good stead on the ice-rink—^pro­vided, of course, that this fool Indiana weather gives' us ice this year. 
MICKEY KANE. 
The Fighting Irish were never "fightinger"-than when Mickey introduced his dynamic person into] the battle. A halfback of no mean ability, Kane-: was always welcomed by Notre Dame fans when­ever he stepped onto the playing field. 
When Carberry was referred to as the "Captain of the Captains," Mickey Kane, along with Castner,, and Desch and Flinn, were had in mind. Mickey-is captain of the baseball squad and even now is-putting into the game that fight which has won-, two games and almost won another. 
WILLIAM VOSS. 
Big Bill Voss is another example of a gentleman-determined on nothing short of victory. BiU served' liis freshman varsity year at the pivot position but. was switched to the tackle position by Eockne when: Bill's varsity career began. Here Voss, like Cotton,. found things a bit difficult on account of the compe­tition of veterans, and had to be content with under­studjdng the greats. 
Tliis year Bill went back to his position at center and took turns with Eegan and Walsh. With a good season behind him, Bill now forgets Notre Dame football until the time when he will look back and tell himself, "Them were the days!" 
:308 'Sfie Norm 5>ame Siehdascic 
FLYNN DEMONSTRATED 
A LITTLE OF THAT 
<«i I «iM r%\» ^' 
"FIGHTING IRISH" SPIRIT IN EVERY GAME. 
®i; -'" =S 
?t3-:.:^v' 
. IT IS NOT AN UNUSUAL "SI&HT TO FIND THE StOE-UNES CROWDED WITH THE 'FAIR 0NES''-WATCHINO DON AMD JERRY, TWO OF THE: FAMOUS MILLER BROTHERS. 
AND AFTER THIS PLAN WAS ^^ 
ADOPTED CROWLEY MANAOEO *'' 
TO KEEP AWAKE FOR THE SIGNALS. 
AND EVERYWHERE THAT THOMAS WENT THET GRIP WAS SURE TO GO. 
.^:___ SlGWALS CAME EASIER TO COTTON 
THAN POETRY- BUT IN HIM THE UNE ALWAYS HAD A PUNCH. 


'^e Noure ^me^chdasrie 
THE WAY CASTNER MUST 
HAVE: APPEARED ON THE . 
FIELD TO OUft OPPCiNENTS. ( 
EDDIE DEGREE, ALL-WESTERN GUARD, Also HAS THE 
SUBWAY CHAMPIONSHIP 
INCHESS. PEOPLE SAY 
THAT HE IS ALWAYS 
CAPTURING THE ' 
OTHER FELLOWS 
qOEEN. 
UEB WAS OUT Of hWST OF THE GAMES WITH A BROKEN 
LEG, BUTHEWASAUAWYS OUT TO WATCH PRKTJCE HOPING. THAT 
ROCKNE, GREATEST IRISH CHlEFTAHil IN HISTQRY.WITH A WET HANDKERCHIEF IN EVERY POCKET FDR THE EBIFICATiON OF VISITING SPORT-WRITERS. 
\\s/ » 
CX)«)«))N6flAM^ 
'Sfie Nocre &ame S^cholascic 
THE FACULTY,BOARD OF ATHLETIC CONTROL. 
One agency which has played a note­worthy part in the development of Notre Dame atheltics is not well enough kno^vn about the university to deprive this article of the quality it desires— that of being a scoop. Sometimes dire and sin­ister remarks creep up the corridors in Sorin Hall to the effect that the Klan's most intimate im­itator, th e "Faculty Board" has held anothei; 
meeting. As a matter of 
fact, this Board meets 
disguised in nothing ex­
FATHER IRVING. cepting the aroma of cigars which are captured from Brother Florian's redoubt, and disguising nothing ex­cept the difference between what even the most intellectual of men recognizes as lunch­eon prepared by a chef and what every long suffering citizen of these parts will remem­ber was a luncheon sans eats, sans chef, sans ever5i;hing. But though this article is proud of its Shakespearian touches, pi'oud even of the fact that it was not written by Frank Wal­lace, its subject-matter is the Faculty Board. Let us bear that in mind. When ^the move­ment to make athletics at Notre Dame con­form in every respect mt h the best stan­dards in force at other istitutions was be­gun, the necessity of creating a governing body similar to those in power at leading-state universities was immediately acted up­on. A board was appointed, and after much and very deliberate reflection it drew up a list of laws and by-laws for itself and a list of rules for athletics. It began to inspect the horizon and see that Notre Dame would, in the future, gain a position in sport so high that the gaze of friend and enemy would rest upon her. The decision to keep abreast of the Conference was made resolutely and, in spite of great and harrowing difficulties, adhered to consistently. If today nobody questions the integrity of Notre Dame sport, that result must be attributed to those who 
had foresight enough to found a governing board and give it power. 
Here rests the ultimate decision in all questions of policy; rulings and eligibility. The board has sometimes felt triumphant and sometimes utterly down and out. It has smiled happily during many years when the time came to dispense monograms; it has wept bitter tears when there was necessity to dispense with monogram-Avearers. It has^ in short, been comic and tragic but it has been on the job. The statue of Homer has presided benevolently over its meetings, re­aiinding all of the fact that even Homer nods. It has kept minutes, and it has been kept for hours. It is never penalized for being in motion, and though occasionally it passes something, it is never the ball. 
The present organization of the board is arranged to include both resident members and Alumni members. As a rule meetings are conducted without graduate participa­tion, but several sessions during each year are complete. The Alumni members at pres­ent in service are: Mr. Frank Hering, Mr. Leroy Keach, and Mr. Fred L. Steers. Resi­dent members are: Rev. Thomas Irving, 
C. S. C, Rev. James Quinlan, C. S. C, Rev. Joseph Burke, C. S. C, Rev. John Boland, 
C. S. C, Professor William Benitz, Prof. Wil­liam Farrell, Prof. George Shuster, Prof. Edward Marus, Prof. Daniel Hull. Mr. I^ockne comes in occasionally and looks the place over. He is officially reported, how­ever, to be the root of all the disturbance. 
With these few hasty remarks we have by no means, exhausted everything that could be said about the board—even above the board. But our purpose is simple. We aim merely to introduce it to the public, drawing especial attention to the fact its modesty has thus far prevented it from giving itself mon­ograms. 
AUTUMN EAIN. 
Some huntress has shattered the sky 
With a thin arrow. 
Fall its tinkling fragments 
Like broken bits of blue glass. 
R, H. HUNT. 
'^e Hocve bame Schdasxnc 
WAY BACK WHEN. 
CHARLES MOLZ. The Gold and Blue has always been su­preme in football. Looking back ovei* the Notre Dame record of the past fifteen yeai's, one can find written the stories of great games. They- are stories that contain the names of Miller, Vaughan, Dorais, Rockne, Pliska, Eichenlaub, Rydzewski, Brandy, Gipp and all those other heroes who have carried the pigskin for Notre Dame. It is a glorious history, the record that is written around these names. One cannot read it without pride. Several of these battles have become clas­sics. They are inscribed in the great book which is kept by whatever angel guides the destinies of football. No one who knows gridiron history has forgotten the victory that Notre Dame won on the Plains back in 1913 by smothering the Army 35 to 13. Then there is the famous 11 to 3 defeat that was handed Michigan in 1909 when the Wolver­ines were the pride of Yost and his follow­ers. It is good to look back upon those games and remember the victories of former 
years. 
* 
Michigan looked invincible the November afternoon back in 1909 when the Gold and Blue invaded Ann Arbor. The Yostmen were fresh from a 46 to 0 victory over Syra­cuse the previous Saturday. Michigan news­papers went so far as to ridicule the Notre team for its "crust" in believing it might beat Michigan, even despite its 6 to 0 victory at Pittsburgh a week earlier. The Michigan-Notre Dame encounter was considered by Yost as more or less of a practice game in preparation for tougher battles against Min­nesota and Penn State. 
Notre Dame that year was fortified in the backfield by Pete Vaughan at fullback, Hamilton at quarter, Miller at left half and Ryan at right half. The plunging of Vaughan that afternoon and the ability of Miller to tear off runs for ten, twenty and thirty yards sent tears into the eyes of the 7,000 Michigan fans. The crashing Pete Vaughan could not be stopped. The story of Vaughan and the goal post is not re­peated often at Ann Arbor, but the incident is still remembered. When the game ended, the score stood 11 to 3, and Yost "took off his hat to the Irish." Vaughan and Miller were the stars of the game. Miller gained one-third of the whole Notre Dame yardage that afternoon. Since that November 6th, Michi­gan has played no more "practice games" with Notre Dame, and Yost has never for­given Vaughan and Company for having the "crust" to trim his prodigies of 1909. 
When the team went to West Point for its game of October 30th, 1913, it was play­ing Notre Dame's first game against the Army men. Five thousand people were out to see the game—a large crowd in those days. They went away, at the end of the battle, in astonishment and wonder. The Cadets were smothered under a rain of for­ward passes, 35 to 13. 
"Dorais to Rockne" simimarizes much of the work on the plains in 1913. The fleet quarterback shot 17 passes during the after­noon and 13 of them were completed for a total of 243 yards. The dazzling overhead attack left the Cadets helpless. Time and again, Dorais hurled palsses for thirty yards into the waiting hands of Rockne. During-the second quarter Notre Dame cleared the whole length of the field in four plays for a touchdown. Marching from the fifteen yard line, the team made eight-five yards for the touchdown. Rockne had caught McEwan's kickoff and was downed on the 35 yard line. Dorais then made five yards on a fake end run. A pass from Dorais to Pliska netted a thirty yard gain and another pass Dorais to Rockne gained 35 yards. A third pass for ten yards, Dorais to Rockne, put the ball on the five yard line. Pliska then jammed through the line for a touch­down. 
The first half of this famous game was a smashing affair which ended with a none too comfortable margin .fOr Notre Dame. Dur­ing the second half, however, the team added 21 points to its previous 14. All but one of the touchdowns were the results of a passing attack. In the last period a driving line of­fensive carried the ball down the field for a touchdown. Despite the severeness of the contest, only one substitution was made dur­ing the whole game. Time is said to have 
'^ e Nocre 5ame §choIascie 
• '' '>«"-"^'*'^*X"*"-»'" 
LEST WE 
been taken out just one—^Pliska had to tie his shoe-string. 
******** 
On a field heavy with snow, Washingion and Jefferson was defeated 3 to 0 in 1917. The game was a see-saw contest, but hard fought from first to last. A field goah by Brandy in the third quarter made the only score of the game. During the whole of the game, the Gold and Blue made only three first downs, Bahan at quarter ordering punts on the second and third downs. Passes were few, although W. and J. tried them consist­ently. 
During the first half neither team had an advantage. Wlien the second quarter ended, anyone might have predicted a tie, 0 to 0, although Miller's punting was gaining for Notre Dame. During the third quarter, Notre Dame's opportunity came. After Brandy had signaled for a fair catch of a punt, he was tackled by a W. and J. man. A fifteen-yard penalty brought the ball to the W. and J. 25-yard line. An attempt at an end run failed. Then Brandy kicked a field goal from the 34-yard liiie. 
* * * * * 
Backfield speed beat Nebraska, 20 to 0, on Thanksgiving Day, 1916. "Dutch" Bergman 
,.'-"-. '-••».. ,. .^ 
 FORGET. 
was at his best skirting the Cornhusker ends. From the first moments of plaj'', when Notre Dame paraded down the field for a touch­down, until the. final whistle blew the game was Notre Dame speed—speed—speed. After the first touchdown, Nekraska braced, how­ever, and Notre Dame had only a 6 to 0 ad­vantage at the end of the first half. The third quarter was a punting duel between Degree of Notre Dame and Dobson of Ne­braska. A fumble on the Nebraska 20-yard line started the play for another touchdown. The third touchdowii was made by BergTaan who pulled down a pass from Miller and raced from midfield 55 yards for a touch­down. Throughout the game, Notre Dame backfield speed overcame the strength of the powerful Cornhusker line. 
******** 
The tie game played against the Great Lakes eleven of 1918 is still fresh in the minds of many. The Navy men had already defeated Iowa and Illinois, leaders in the western conference. The lack of seasoned material in 1918, which was S. A. T. C. year, made the issue doubtful for Notre Dame. 
The battle began as a ripping, smashing battle. By a rushing offensive, Notre Dame carried the ball down the field and before 



'^e Nocre ^me Schdascie 31g 
the first quarter was over had put it under the Great Lakes goal post. Gipp's exchange of punts with DriscoU had gained 20 yards. Consistent pounding against the Navy line put the ball within the shadow of the goal, and a few rushes carried it over. In the second period Gipp missed a 40 yard field goal in the midst of see-saw playing. Then, skirting the Notre Dame line, the sailors brought the ball into midfield where they were forced to punt. Once in possession of the ball, Notre Dame marched down the field. As the ball rested within a few yards of the goal posts, the wliistle blew. 
In the third period, the Great Lakes men tied the count, when DriscoU, after a series of whirlwind attacks, crossed the Notre Dame goal line. The remainder of the game was a battle between the contending half­backs. Notre Dame retained the ball most of the time, but could do nothing with its overhead attack. 
CASTNEE. 
When you are gone we'll think of you 
And all the things that you could do. We'll speak of what a man you were, A hero for a worshipper. 
Upon the field and off it, too. 
We'll tell of runs and kicks, it's true, The-games in which you pulled us through. Of hockey's steel-shod mariner, When you are gone. 
But when you've said your last adieu. 
And all this glory's passed from view, One thing of you we'll all aver. The Christian gentleman you were, 
And for this we'll remember you When you are gone. o. ' 
NOTRE DAME. 
N is Nebraska for whom there's in store Such a beating next year as she ne'er got before. 0 is the others we played off their feet. Techs or Purdues or whoever we'd meet. T is the tie that showed that we can Overcome odds twenty pounds to the man. E is for Eockne, reliable Eock; We'd cash our last cent in on his stock. E is for everything our team could do, 
Punt, pass or drop-kick, or smash a line thru. D is the dough put up for our side, A is the Army, and Atlanta's bruised hide. M is the many dreams that we dream. E is for every blamed man on the team! 
s. L. D. 
THE SCHOLASTIC'S CHOICE FOR AN ALL-HALL TEAM. 
POSITION.  NAME.  HALL.  
Left end..  ..Dorschel  Walsh  
Left tackle  Blum  Brownson  
Left guard  Penrod  Day Dodgers  
Center  Hiaecker  (Capt.:Badin  

Right guard ...Scalaro Walsh 
Right tackle ..Ziliak Carroll 
Right end Cook Corby 
Quarterback ...Whalen Walsh 
Left halfback .Mouch Badin 
Right halfback Cody Badin 
Fullback Gorman Badin 
HONORABLE MENTION. 
Linemen: Stanhope (Walsh), Barry (Carroll),. Wrape (Badin), DeHoge (Day Dodgers), Easton (Freshman), Hatton (CarroU, Dando (Walsh). 
Backs: Allnoch. (Badin), Schiffer (CarroU), Coffey (Brownson), MacGregor (Freshman), Evans. (Badin), Barry (Corby). 
In selecting the All-Hall team we have been mindful of many things—a man's har­m.onious team play, his work on the offense and defense contrasted, the effort he has mxade at all times, the nimiber of games in which he has played, etc. On the strength of games played off the campus, there might have been several additional names; but, of course, such games could not be considered. 
We do not claim that our team as picked is infallible. Some will think that the work of certain men has been overlooked, and the value of certain other men overestimated. But every such mythical team is only the re­sult of opinion; and before selecting our eleven we have weighed and searched the opinions of many others. 
There were plenty of good ends, although Dorschal, fast, brainy, and adept at snag­ging passes, was probably the outstanding man at this position. Cook merits a place because he starred on Corby's team, and played an exceptionally fine defensive game. Wrape of Badin deserves mention for his consistently good playing; so also Barry- of Carroll and DeHoge of the Day Dodgers. 
Ziliak stood out prominently at tackle. He was a hard man to get through and a hard man to stop, and was one of Carroirs hard­est fighters. Blum of Brownson played end. 
S14 '^ e Notre (5>ameSchda8cic 
l)ut he was a veritable rock on the defense, and also heavy enough to play a fine tackle, Lando of Walsh would not rate far behind either of these men—in fact, only because Blum's work was somewhat spectacular could he be given preference over Lando. Largely because of the late time at which its team was organized. Freshman Hall did not turn out many exceptional players, but Eason was one of its best. Hatton of Car­roll seldom shone, but, like Buck Shaw, he worked hard and said little. 
Scalaro was the most conspicuous lines­man of the season. He was a guard who hit like a ton of dynamite, and was one big rea­
£ 2.1 XTT 1 1 1-/ • • •u-f.i. T) A-
son for the Walsh line s invincibility. Badm 
will not soon forget that streak of purple in 
the first game. The Day Dodger captain, 
Penrod, was at all times a strong man, both 
on the ofliense and defense. 
Center presented a real problem. Both Haecker and Stanhope.are worthy of the All-Hall team, but Haecker was finally given the position because, although smaller than Stanhope, he was faster, fully as hard a fighter, and a more polished player. The Badin captain was in every play, and was an extremely capable leader. Only because Haecker was a more versatile player than Stanhope is he preferred. 
The quarterback position falls to Walsh's sterling backfield star, Whalen. He was a brainy general, an accurate passer, and could run with the ball as well. He had no rival among the quarterbacks. " 
The remainder of the backfield places goes to Badin, for her men were plainly pre-em­inent. Inter-hall football has seldom brought out better players than Mouch and 
Cody. Mouch could kick, run and pass, and do each one of these things in a finished, im­pressive manner. Cody proved to be a mar­vellous open-field runner, and was almost al­ways good for a substantial gain. Evans of . Badin was only beginning his sensational de­velopment when the season closed, while Brownson's back, Coffey, came very near re­peating his wonderful performance of last year. DeGurse, Walsh captain, would have made a strong bid for an All-Hall position had he not suffered a bad injury early in the season. Other good backs were Barry of 
 Corby, Schiffer of Carroll, and MacGregor 
 of Freshman Hall. 
 Badin offered both possibilities for the job 
 at fullback. Gonnan, a terrific line smasher, 
 and a dependable m.an at all times, had but 
a slight margin over Allnoch, who played 
 much the same style of game as Gorman, and 
 was a splendid kicker. Hauber of Walsh 
 cannot be given mention only because of the 
 short time he played, 
 HARRY M'GUIRE. 
 NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL AND FAME.  „„T.^Tn.T.^T 
 JOHN BRENNAN. 
 When the football critics who recently  made their All American selections were in  the third grade or thereabouts, George Car­ tier, Joseph Cusack, Francis Fehr, and  Harry Jewett were forming the first football  team at Notre Dame under the captaincy  of Henry Luhn and the managership of  Brother Paul, C. S. C. That was in 1887,  before the sport was as popular as it is now,  and before the days of stadiums which easily  accommodate the inhabitants of a fair sized  city. These pioneers lost the one game they  had scheduled when Michigan defeated them  by a score of eight to nothing. This was  the beginning of Notre Dame's football his­ tory which has made the prowess of her  teams "a glorious tradition and a source of  never-ending pride." Notre Dame lost to  Michigan consistently until 1909 when the  famous Pete Vaughan, aided and abetted by  Don Hamilton and Harry Miller, broke a goal  post and scored a--touchdown, thereby de­ feating- the Wolverines and furnishing ma­
t 
 terial for speeches at mass meetings in after  years. 
 The football player of early days is gener­ ally supposed to have been an individual  with the physique of a Hercules whose ex­ ploits were confined exclusively to the inter­ vals between the timekeeper's whistle. Notre  Dame men, for some reason or other, do not  conf orni to this rule. They have proved that  the lessons they received on the gridiron  have aided them in gaining success in their  chosen callings. The following list of prom­ inent jurists, business men, clergymen, law­
'^ e Noure ^m e Sehotecic 
yers, journalists, and educators contains but a few of the Notre Dame men who deserve monograms for their accomplishments after leaving school as well as for their feats in athletics. 
Bachman, Charles, 1914; physical director, Uni­
versity of Kansas. Berg-man, Alfred, 1912; business, Peru, Indiana. Bertling, John F., 1907; engineer. South Bend, Indiana. 
.,,^ Callicrate, Dominic, 1904; business, Portland, 
- Oregon. Cartier, George R., 1887; business, Ludington, 
Michigan. Casey, Dan V., 1895; editor, Chicago, Illinois. Collins, Joseph, 1908; business, Jackson, Michigan. Coughlin, Frank, 1921; prosecuting attorney-elect, 
South Bend, Indiana. Crowley, Charles F., 1910; business, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Cusack, Joseph E., 1887; Colonel U. S. A., Cal­ifornia. Diebold, C. J., 1899; business, Pittsburg, Penn­
sylvania. Dolan, Samuel, 1909; professor, Corvallis, Orgeon. Donovan, Richard, 1904; business, Chicago, 111. Draper, William, 1904; advertising, Chicago, 
Illinois. Eggeman, John W., 1900; circuit judge,; Allen County, Indiana. Eiciienlaub, Raymond, 1911; insurance, Columbus, Ohio. Fansler, Michael, 1901; lawyer, Logarisport, Indiana. ^-^ Farley, John F., 1898; clergyman, Portland, Oregon. Fehr, Francis, 1887; business, Louisville Ken­tucky. Feeney, Albert, 1911; business, Indianapolis, Indiana. Finegan, Charles T., 1912; sheep raiser, Boise, Idaho. Fleming, Stephen B., 1888; business, Fort "Wayne, Indiana. Fortin, Albert C, 1898; engineer, Portland, Oregon. Funk, Arthur S., 1904; engineer, LaCrosse, Wisconsin. Galen, A. J., 1889; associate judge, supreme court 
of Montana. Hamilton, Donald, 1908; lawyer, Columbus, Ohio. Hering, Frank E., 1896; ex-president Fraternal 
Order of Eagles, South Bend, Indiana. Jewett, Harry M., 1887; president Paige Motor 
Company, Detroit, Michigan. Jones, Keith K., 1913; captain U. S. A., Oklahoma. Kegler, William, 1898; sup't Ohio Division, Big 
Four Railroad. Kuppler, George W., 1898; business, Washington, District of Columbia. . Lathrop, Ralph, 1912; insurance, Peoria, Illinois. Lynch, Edwin J., 1907; lawyer, Toledo, Ohio. 
Macdonald, Angus, 1898; vice president Southern. 
Pacific Railroad, New York. Miller, Harry, 1910; lawyer, Cleveland, Ohio. McNerney, Lawrence, 1903; lawyer, Elgin, Illinois.­Mullen, John I.-, 1896; engineer, lona, Minnesota. Niezer, Charles M., 1897; lawyei'. Fort Wayne^ 
Indiana. O'Mailey, Dominic, 1899; clergyman, Notre Dame,. Indiana. Peil, Edward J., 1901; business, Racine, Wis­consin. ' Pick, John B., 1900; business. West Bend, Wis­consin. ,Quinlan, Michael A., 1892; elerg3rman, Columbia-University, Portland, Oregon. Roclaie, Knute K., 1914; athletic director. Uni­
versity of Notre Dame. Rosenthal, Jacob, 1895; physician, Petoskey, Mich.­Salmon, Louis, 1901; engineer; New York. Schillo, Fred, 1896; railroad official, Texas. 
.^-Sinnott, Roger B., 1893; congressman from-Oregon. Steiner, Arthur, 1902; engineer, Monroe, Michi­gan. Swonk, Francis, 1897; business, Kalamazoo,­Michigan. Wagner, Earl P., 1899; physician. South Bend, Indiana. Walsh, William, 1885; business, Yonkers, New York. 
STANZAS. 
We talk about him all day long, We put him in our rhymes and song". When he's on deck, we're for him strong, 
Stuhldreher. 
He holds the line and kicks the punts. He shows .the football world some-stunts. He makes the big boys look like rimts. 
Degree. 
Here is a theme for mighty bards. He sure knows how to play his cards. He can't make less than seven yards, 
Crowley, 
He grabs a pass or skirts the ends. Through broken fields he deftly wends. The strongest line he butts and wrends. 
Miller. 
From A to Z he knows his game, Kazoo or Tech look all the same. And he'll be missed at Notre Dame, 
Castner. j . N. P;­
, J .. • ^ .---. . .-^.-.^ 
'^ e Noure ^ame Scholascie 
Stars in their courses and twelve stars whose rays • 3ut draw their beauty from Her circled brow Fought in great peace to bring you, through what ways, ^^^^ere you are now. 
There is a company about Her throne Where all her knights are met in heaven's joys. And you, the youngest, ai-e not there alone Among her boys. 
They have laid by the mail of many a field. Out of a thousand climes, a thousand years. To you, newcomex*, welcome place they yield Among your peers. 
You wore her armor, battling in Her name, What though you scarcely knew its august pow^er— She knew Her knight and, fame beyond all fame. Prepared this hour. 
When with a kindness fitting such a Queen She led you off, your tourney but begun,, With scutcheon bright and wreath of laurel green, Youi- spurs quick-won. 
For greaves may mst, and fame is 'but a breath That blows or hot or cold beyond deserving. But Honor lies immortal in this death. Your name preserving. 
Out of what far ways of the boundless skies Fluttered the call that turned your footsteps here ^Vhere over all our purpose shine Her-eyes. Her spirit near. 
O Lady, you have taken of our best To make a playmate for the Seraphim; There on the wide sweet campus of the blest. Be good to him. 

'^e Nocre 5ame Scholascie 
THE RECORD? YES BROTHER! BUT NOT "NOBODY LIED." 
The Tnbune: -announces that he will take his Miss America (speed boat) that holds the world's record of 80,576 miles an hour. 
DON'T YOU THINK SO, DOCTOR JEKYL? ABSOLUTELY, MR. HYDE. 
Truly it is a Mystery That at muster time The Prof, gets Fifty lusty "HERE'S" Out of Thirty Students. 
* -i-'i' 
She: Can you steer with your knees. 
He: No, but I!m long on brakes. 
**= 
SOCIETY NOTE SUGGESTED BY MR. I. M. HUMIDD. 
The home of Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Breth was the scene of a gay festival last Boozeday night when the wealthy Breths announced the engagement of their daughters, Iva and Uva Breth to Tom and Jerry Hennesy. 
The expensive Breth home which is situated on the Griin river was superbly decorated in Irishe Mosse while soft glow of the Noses de Redde cast wavering, supple shadows over the Booshes D'An­hausere that encircled the Cellair. Everything was beautifully lit up. 
The Misses Breth wore gowns a la Scantee which were trimmed in Nose Gays and Crepe de Shame. In their hair they wore feathers of Cock Tail and Crow de Olde, which were smartly offset by ropes Von Pretzles that hung from their shoulders. 
Some of those present were Mr. Hardy Tippler, Miss Virginia Dair, Mr. I. N. Ebreate, Mr. Hart Burne, and H. E. Cuppe. Mr. Cuppe arrived some­what late due to an engagement with Mr. Stein and Mr. Lager regarding a scientific discussion concern­ing a horse's neck. 
After a luncheon De Moyste, the guests played Put and ,Take which was later changed to Give and Take, Mr. Hardy claiming honors due to his Technique de Wallope. The party then took on the aspect of a rum affair and the guests departed with stride a la Wobble. 
EMPRESSIONISTIC VERSE. 
They were sitting on a bench Made of something or other Doing nothing. The air was full of spring Or something or other: And doing nothing. He asked her for a kiss Or something or other And she said Nothing doing. 
SONG HIT SCANDAL. 
Mary says: "That Dardanella was Lovin' Sam at Three O'clock in the Morning Down by the Old Mill Stream, The Vamp. I'm Nobody's Fool and Be­lieve Me She's a Mean Job and Some Sunny Day After I'm Gone He'll want to Hold Me and Kiss Me Again, The Sneak. I Never Knew a Young Man's Fancy to Be True. It's Always Cow Bells." 
*** 
DEFINITIONS. 
Blister: Genus of the sentimentaler sex; form­erly called "Oil Can"; thinks that Psyche is the French champ; says, "This is She," every chance she gets. 
Hip Blister: Veiy expensive disease, but fash­ionable; comes from carrying "it" with you. 
Rodolf: Formerly plain "Rudolph"; the acme of hair oil; constituents of oil are: one part Greezy Nut (or one. "part" in a greasy nut) mixed with a pint of lard, goose grease, axle grease and prune juice, a la gi-eeze; very gi-easy; to be worn with a slippery line. 
Exam: Pronounced by students "Eggszanun'*; anything extremely sad. 
Warped: Applies to the intellect; can be told by their utterances such as, "Has she got a car," or "So I took this one thousand dollars, etc." 
The sun sinks; or does it? Yes it sinks. Steeped in raw purple blood; 
Night comes; vnth a gasp; are not we of the medi­ocrity of rational ken imputable, not grasping the impalpable? We are. Precisely! we are. 
The terrible black of night; sanguine and terrible; black and anguine and terrible; ah, death. 
Soph: Was she really cross-eyed? 
Senior: Well not exactly, but her eyes were pointed as though they had a date with each other about ten feet down the line. KOLARS. 


ais '^ e Noure &ame Scholascie 
Victory engenders enthusiasm. It is the 
easiest thing in the world to cheer a winner 
unless he is defeating a cause dear to us. 
And when the winner is 
WHAT'S IN A bearing our colors, 
CHEER? praise comes too natur­
ally to be attributed to 
patriotism. 
Notre Dame has just completed a success­
ful football season. On any Saturday after­
noon during the fall, loud cheers rolled up 
from the watching crowds on the field or in 
the gym.. Strangers wondered at the volume 
of each j^-ell while newspapers printed admir­
ing comments upon the loyalty of the student 
body. But the praise was deserved. 
We only hope that in. the coming basket­ball, track and baseball seasons the same spirit will flourish. Behind these sports at Notre Dame there is not the solid tradition of success that Marks, Harper and Rockne have woven into football. We often lose, and sometimes anticipate defeat as a matter of course. 
Let us resolve that in the future, win or lose, our enthusiasm will be unmistakably present. May there be no disparagement of the athlete who bungles in basketball, fin­ishes consistently behind in track, or fans the air at a critical moment in a baseball game. He may not be a star, but it is certain that he is a better man in his field than any spec­tator, and better able to represent Notre Dame. 
Loyalty is not a luxury that the prosper­ous winner alone rnay possess. It is a ne­cessity—precious and indispensable, almost the finest thing in the world. And the test of our loyalty is not in victory, but in defeat when the forces of the enemy ride trium­phant over our. banners, and we cannot snatch them up. That test will come—^there can be no escaping it, but when it does may we stand as confident as ever, and show the mettle of men. ENGELS. 
It is always a source of wondering to the outside world that year after year, Rockne produces a team which seems not to have 
suffered  from  the  in­ 
THE SENIOR FOOT­ roads of graduation. The  
BALLERS.  Veason  is  that  Rock's  
teams  are  very  seldom  
one-man teams.  

Be that as it may, one wonders every year, "What of next year? What will we do with­out this man and that?" This year, too, al­though we are confident of the ability of the junior, sophomore and freshman mate­rial available for next year, and although we are dead sure that Rockne can produce a team as good as this year's and perhaps even better than this year's, we cannot but won­der what will happen,-with twelve men of the team unable to come back again to fight for Notre Dame. 
These are twelve men, tried and true, and 
'^e Nocre (borne ^hdasci^ 
they leave Notre Dame with their praises on the lips of the world. Let us here give them our parting tribute! 
The curtain has rung down on the most successful season American football has ever had. The number of people who saw inter­collegiate contests could FOOTBALL POPU- be counted in the hun-LARITY. dreds of thousands. Ev­
ery section of the coun­try had fields and stadiums crowded to their capacities with spectators. Interest in the game was universal. Nothing can be plainer than the confidence which the public has in the wholesomeness of collegiate sports as shown by the continued support given to football. No other sport has the attraction of collegiate football. Baseball, boxing, bas­ket ball, water sports are pushed into the background. The overshadowing interest in the gridiron sport makes them look puny indeed. Colleges and universities have nothing to fear from football prosperity, however, so long as the right standards of sportsmanship are maintained and so long as professionalism- and proselytism are crushed. The future offers nothing but en­couragement. The gridiron is green and smooth, the chalk lines across it are white. 
MOLZ. 
Ascertain amount of class consciousness has crept into the student life of Notre Dame. There are here as in other colleges," 
groups  or cliques.  This  
THE  CAMPUS  is a purely normal thing,  
COMMON.  for it follows that indi­ 
viduals whose tastes and  
philosophies  are  similar  should  adhere  to  

those who believe as they do. But his class association should not become so strong as to prevent a moderate merging of all classes. That is, there should be a general good-fel­lowship existing between every man and his fellow student. 
But in some cases, in fact in too many in­stances, this amity has been displaced by in­tolerance, surliness, and suspicion. It is not malicious but it is none the less harmful. Harmful because it impedes the deep im­
palpable coordination that is the heart of every institution. 
A truth that is at once extenuating and la­mentable is that this class consciousness is not due to any intrinsic ill-will on the part of the students, but to a general misunderstand­ing. Through some unknown cause, suspic­ion has been aroused, and the result has been that each class is wary of all the others. "Helios" are subdued and guarded. "Chips on the shoulder," and criticism are too often in order, and a general attitude of mistrust has appeared on the campus. 
The recent "Hello Week" stunulated a feeling of amiability to some extent, but it did not accomplish what is most needed: A spirit of trust and tolerence. 
Let us try to break up this futile guarded­ness, and attempt to instill into all Notre Dame men a true feeling of friendliness to all fellow students. Put some zest into your next "Hello" and you may find that the other fellow was simply awaiting a chance, to do likewise." KOLARS. 
A wistful feeling grips us as we realize that the football season is over. A vacancy 
halts  our  week.  We have  an  unsatisfied  
longing for those Satur­ 
"THERE's AN END  day  aftemoons  in  the  
TO EVERYTHIG."  gym or on Cartier Field  
cheering the team.  That  

longing will pass perhaps, but it is there now, harsh and unrequited. We may only look pensively at the bleak stands aci'oss the campus as a reminder of recent days, and wait for another year. We shall talk, of course, describing plays and games, discus­sing mythical teams and next yearns sched­ule. But it is hard to break away from the things of the gridiron. Someone will say immediately that they occupy too much of our thought. Untrue, we answer. Football breeds the college spirit. It is the outlet for those energies, whether as spectators or players, that we cannot put into books and lectures. It permits us to relax without shifting our interests from the theater of campus activities. It awakes our sportsman­ship. Devotion to what is wholesome, even when it appears most enthusiastic, is never evil. And so our attention to football merits 
!20 
'Jcfie Nocre &ame ^chdascic 
rio reproach. When football becomes cor­
rupt, then whole-hearted enthusiasm may be 
discouraged. In our present mood, the 
months until we shall hear the familiar 
whistle look far away. But we shall wait. 
The days next fall ^all be worth the waiting. 
MOLZ. 
Everybody's welfare is yours. 
Not all the great battles are bloody. 
A good actor may also be a bad actor. 
Merit will be acclaimed in spite of depre­ciation. 
The stjdes of today are the smiles of to­morrow. 
It is better to be a silent wise man than an eloquent fool. 
It is not the largest bird that sings the sweetest song. 
IMPORTANT SOCIAL ANNOUNCEMENT. 
All admirers of rhytlmi, beauty, harmony and, more precisely, dancing, will take notice that the Saint Mary's Club of Chicago will entertain with a dance on the evening of De­cember twentj^'-first. The scene will be the Opera Club, Chicago. Tickets assuring you of admission into the wonders of this affair can be purchased at the door. All Notre Dame are welcome, we-have been assured, and we hope that some, at least, will help make the evening a success. 
FAMILIAR FOLKS. 
Frank Bloemer, graduate in commerce last year, is with the Continental Car Company, of Louisville, Kentucky. 
*** 
Charlie Bachman, '17, former captain and coach of the Great Lakes Naval Training Station football team, has completed a suc­cessful season as football mentor of the Kansas Aggies. His team lost only one game and that to Nebraska. While he was here last Monday it was announced that he has received an oifer from Alabama to act in the 
capacity of athletic director and football coach, but whether he accepted has not been made known. 
* *•* 
Gerald Ashe, Commerce, '22, visited the University Sunday and Monday. After so­journs in Pittsburgh and Boston he joined the staif of the perishable freight service of the New York Central Lines, with headquar­ters at Toledo. 
:>••** 
Father O'Donnell has already received the Bill Roach Trophy, a handsome ten-inch silver loving cup, which will be the first athletic prize to adorn the Badin recreation room. The cup was donated to the winners of the Inter-hall football championship by Bill Roach, former Notre Dame barber who has recently opened his own shop below "Hullie and Mike's."' 
«i« .*. ^
-*• *;» '*• 
Robert P. Galloway, '22, passed the New York state bar examinations and has opened' law offices in Buffalo. 
Eddie Duggan is putting the knowledge of football which he acquired at Notre Dame in the time of Eichenlaub to good use in de­veloping teams at Franklin College. 
*•* 
Joe Meyers, '16, a fomier baseball and basketball star, who had a try-out with the Cincinnati Reds a few seasons ago, is foot­ball coach at St. Xavier's, Cincinnati. He-reports that he suffered only one stiiiging* defeat this year, when the Navy ran up a score of fifty-five to nothing against his pro­teges. Nothwithstanding the fact that he never played football he turned out a good team and has put the sport on a collegiate 
basis at St. Xavier's. 
* * * 
Pierre Chan-:pion, '22, having decided to-follow in the footsteps of all captains of in­dustry, reported for duty to the Champion Rivet Company, Cleveland, Ohio, to learn the business from the ground up. 
Charles M. Niezer, Fort Wayne, Indiana,, has given up the practise of law to begin his duties as president of the First National Bank of that city. He succeeds Charles H. 

Tofie Nocre ^m e Sieholasric 
WordeiT, who retired because of ill health. Mr. Niezer was head of the law firm of Niezer, McLucas and Reid, one of the most successful and prominent law firms in Indiana. Mr. Niezer is a monogram man, having attended Notre Dame in 1897. He also holds a Master of Arts, degree from Columbia University which he received in 1901. 
Organization of the law firm of Deahl and McCarthy was announced December fourth. The members are Orlo Deahl, a graduate of the University of Michigan Law School, and Edwin J. McCarthy, who graduated from the Notre Dame Law School last year. Mr Deahl will specialize in corporation law while Mr. McCarthy will continue in general practise. Offices are in the J. M. S. Building. 
* * =:= 
On Thanksgiving Day, Miss Edith M. Ro­loff, Oak Park, Illinois, announced her en­gagement to Mr. James H. Brennan, old Notre Dame student, who is now associated with the Illinois Social Hygiene League of Chicago. 
Henry Baujan has finished a successful season at the University of Dayton where he is athletic director. He played right end on the varsity in '14, *15 and '16, was one of the first graduates from the College of Commerce, and after leaving Notre Dame played football with Jim Thorpe's Cleveland Indians. 
In spite of the wave of bigotry that swept over the state of Oregon, Nicholas J. Sin­nott, Notre Dame lawyer, was triumphantly re-elected to Congress from that state. In Nevada, too, a fight was made against Mich­ael A. Diskin on the grounds of his religion, but that also failed of its purpose. 'Mr. Dis­kin was elected attorney general of Nevada. 
Richard Braun, Ch. E., *14, a foi-mer resi­dent of St. Joe Hall and of Manitowoc, Wis­consin, is employed by an engineering con­cern of St. Louis. His particular job is to take charge of the government citric acid plant at Port Arthur, Texas. He recently spent a few hours chatting with his friends on the campus and gave them many inter­
esting sidelight on the activities of the Ku Klux Klan. 
The Detroit Notre Dame Club which was so lively before the war, was reorganized Wednesday night, following a banquet at the Hotel Statler. Fathers Cavanaugh, Bums and McGinn were present, and under such splendid auspices we could not help getting away to a good start. The following officers were elected: 
Honorary President—^Lou P. (Red) 
Salmon. 
President—Raymond J. Kelly. 
Vice-President—James F. O'Brien. 
Secretary—Edward N. Marcus., 
Treasurer—Harry CuUen. 
A resolution was adopted urging Coach 
Rockne to bring the football team to Detroit for a game next season, which was imme­diately communicated to him. 
The alumni and old students in this local­
ity send greetings to Alma Mater. 
UNDER THE DOME. 
"Mike" Sullivan, of Walsh Hall, in charge of the group photography for the 1923 Dome, announces that clubs that do not have their pictures taken within the next few days will have to issue their own annual in which they may insert their faces, because the club section of the Dome is now closing. 
"Preparing a Drawing for the Engraver" was the subject of the first lecture to the 1923 Dome staff, to the journalists, and oth­ers interested, given Tuesday afternoon in the Libraiy. Mr, Olsen, of Olsen and Roth, commercial artists, made the talk. These addresses are intended to be of practical val­ue to those contemplating or interested in publishing. Mr. Olsen spoke about line and screen plates, black and white and color work, electrotyping and photographic work, and gave over the last part of his interesting hour to answering the questions asked him. 
With Jeriy Hagan in the saddle cracking out the rhymed lines, the Dome's 1923-cal­endar, is now well under way. Scouts are sneaking down the hallways in each dormi­tory seeking scandal material. After a con ­
'(cfie Hcfcre 6ame §chdascic 
clave Thursday the men of the brush and pen began their work in illustrating the sing­ing words of the Glendive versifier. 
On Tuesday evening, November twenty-eighth, Car oil "Rec" was the scene of one of the best smokers ever held in that hall. The whole affair w^as one of varied enter­tainment which consisted of speeches, music, boxing', comedy acts, and "eats." Among those w'ho spoke were Father Burke, Father Hugh O'Donnell and the worthy rector^ Father John Devers. 
There were two "leather battles," one a comedy bout between "Duke" Slater a four-footer, and "Movie" Hall, a six footer. The other was a fast and exciting bout between Frankie Kahili and Leslie McDonald. Peter Locova, a tenor of rare ability, featured in a very good act by giving several selections. Joseph Schneider and Lester Clarke were very entertaining with two banjos. The mu­sic, which was very good,- was furnished throughout the evening by Victor Labedz and his Carroll Hall "Big Four." 
The questionnaire fever so noticeable dur­ing the past few weeks has extended to the 
S. A. C, the students' organization. Students and others in many of the classes were in­terviewed for their opinions on the Com­mittee's latest brain-child, a daily paper, and general opinion seemed to be much in favor of this progressive measure. Mayhap we shall soon see the SCHOLASTIC but once a month. 
It has been w^hispered about the campus that the wheels of industry have been heard \vhirring in 228 Sorin, w^here the esteemed Bim O'Donnell and Mr. Martin are busy pro­ducing the greatest student directory of the year. The lack of an adequate directory has been gTeatly felt during the past two years, and the efforts of O'Donnell and Martin should do much to aid suffering humanity. While great secrecy prevails regarding the publication it is thought that it will appear a short time before the Christmas holidays. 
The fact that Mr. Claus' boy, Santa, will soon be doing his-parachute jump down va­
rious and sundry chimneys is brought to our attention by numerous meetings of several organizations which plan on making Notre Dame noticeable in the home town during the Yuletide. Prominent among these or­ganizations are Danny Culhane's Rochester Club and the Metropolitan Club. Culhane and Jim Welch plan on bringing fame to their club by throwing the greatest and most stupendous party Rochester has ever seen. The Metropolitan Club, composed of students from Staten Island, Queen's Island, Ha­waiian Islands, the Bronx, Cape Cod, and the Cape of Good Hope, will charter one of Pullman's best cars for the homeward trip. There have also been rumors regarding a dance at the McAlpin. 
Visitors to the library during the recent weeks have, heard much of wars, rumors of wars, strikes, living wages, Coo Coo Clan, prohibition, and similar things floating through the basement windows and out into the crisp air of winter. Professor Farrell has managed to bring together into verbal combat some hundred or more knights of the silver tongue, during the preliminaries to the Breen Oratorical contest and the tryouts for the debating team. The victors in the jousts have not yet been determined, but will, no doubt, be made knowm at a later date. 
The Scribblers' efforts to learn about writ­ers and writing began last Monday evening in the Library with a program headed by Professor John M. Cooney, head of the de­partment of journalism. Prof. Cooney was critic and speaker, telling personal remin­isences of the lyric poet. Father Tabb, and reading several of the convert priest's short poems from the backs of envelopes and from note sheets, where Father Tabb's worn pens had written them. Prof. Cooney gave his listeners an intimate and interesting picture of the kindly teacher and writer. A paper on "Utopian U," by Harry A. McGuire, the club's "president, one on James Matthew Barrie, by Harry W. Flannery, and poems by Vincent David Engels and the younger Lightfoot, were read after the alarm clock had rung for Prof. Cooney's period of tale telling. Father Cavanaugh is scheduled as the next speaker. HAGAN. 


'icfie Noure ^me Schdasrie 32a 
A FEW REVIEWS. VARIOUS THINGS. 
POETRY TO SUIT. Many good ijoets have come out of Notre Dame— Egan, Stoddard, Stace, Speer Strahan are some of them—^but none so real, so charming and so regally inspired as Father O'Donnell. We all remem.ber the first volume with its colourful title, "The Dead Mu­sician"; and sooner or later all of us will be hap­py familiars of the new book, "Cloister and Other Poems." Here is verse beautiful not only with the poet's own moods, but also, aboundingly, with the truest affections of Notre Dame. You will find here once more, the high organ and the vaulted chapel and the mystical Brother for whom music was the "host of moving pageantry"; "Indian Lake" and "Harvest-Fields"; but best of all perhaps will be "Cloister": 
"Eai-th beauteous and bare to lie ui)on Lit by the little candle of the sun. 
"The wind sone daily sweciuna: like a broom-— For these vast hearts it was a narrow room. 
Of the many excellent lyrics, familiar or perfectly new, it need only be said that each has its individ­ual charm and revelation, and needs only the niche in a sympathetic reader's heart. Tastes may battle over some things, of course, but all tastes will be satisfied by the book as a whole. It could only have been written by a priest with a delicate realization of his own emotional life and its values. Here American literature has been singularly fortunate; Father Tabb smiling whimsically on his way from the tabernacle must have beckoned our own poet to follow him. They belong together, different though they are, and each is a master of song. We predict for "Cloister and Other Poems" an abiding success among those for whom poetry is the most queenly of all arts. 
Cloister and Other Poems. By Charles L. O'Don­nell, C. S. C. The Macmillan Company, New York. Price, $1.00. 
H. G. Wells reduced his "Outline of History" from two volumes to one. Now he has reduced it still further until he has "A Short History of the World" in 400 pages of large type. We are one of those who believe that the less Wells puts into his history the better it will be. Therefore, we shall wait until he boils it down to a vest pocket edition before buy­ing. 
Appearing for the first time this month is the Literary Digest Interyiational Book Revietv, a maga­zine devoted to the book world, sponsored by the Funk and Wagnalls company. Clifford Smyth, un­til recently editor of the New York Times book re­view section, is the editor. The aim of the new magazine is to cover the field of literary activities riot only in the United. States but in foreign coun­triies. Contributors to the first number include among others Sinclair Lewis, Gertrude Atherton, Maurice Francis Egan, Brander Matthews, Amy Lowell, and Christopher Morley. 
A new burlesque serial, "The Parody Outline of Literature," begins in the Christmas number of the Bookman. The serial will be similar to "The Par­ody Outline of History." Various authors will re­tell old stories, given modem settings, in their own. styles. Marc Connelly and George Kauffman have written the first chapter, a parody on Dickens' Christmas Carol in the style of their plays "Dulcy" and "To the Ladies." In later chapters, Will Irwin will rewrite "Cinderella," Ring Lardner will make a modern "Enoch Arden," and so on. 
A SINGER'S TRUE STORY. Father Martin J. Scott, S. J., has written a very appealing little story in "Mother Machree." The simple narrative of a boy who turned out to have a remarkable voice, a knowledge of how to use it, and a rare spiritual sweetness of character will fas­cinate all who are still healthy enough to enjoy simple things. Of course. Father Scott, who has written so many successful manuals of instruction and so many exhortations, cannot manage altogether to keep away from sermonizing. It would, how­ever, be quite unfair to yourself to permit this gen­erous little fault to keep you away from as pleas­ing a true story as you are apt to meet this year. Here is also just the book for the younger brother with the "grown-up" feeling. Mother Machree. Rev. Martin J. Scott. The Macmillan Company, New York. Price, $1.75. 
CHURCH UNITY. Very frequently during the present era of man's difiicult adjustment of himself to the society arotmd him, the cry of the unity among the Christian churches makes itself heard. Ut omnes umim sint! is of course the cherished motto of every apostle. But Church-Unity has not always meant exactly this, but rather, "Let one be all—^let a name stand for the unification of institutions totally different in purpose and character." To the Rev. Edmund S. Middleton, D. D., an Anglican rector, we are in­debted for a new book which very candidly asserts that any proposal for unity cannot be sound, not only without Rome's participation, but also without Rome's leadership. For a writer in the author's position this is a sufficiently daring thesis, and one which, up to a certain point, merits the careful at­tention of every Catholic interested in the religious 
•welfare of his time. It is a dignified and well-con­structed book, markedly sincere and sane in tone. One misses the absence of a transcendent style, like Newman's to carry the thought across the wary gates of the public mind, but such styles, after all, are rare enough. 
Unity and Rome. By Rev. Edmund S. Middleton, 
D. D. The Macmillan Company, New York. Price, $1.75. 
'^ e Norre bame Schdascie 
THE GENTLEMEN CORNHUSKERS. 
J. W. CORBETT. The annual game mtli Nebraska is al­ways a pleasurable event. The Thanks­giving visit this year was no exception. The Notre Dame team and its followers were cor­dially received and cordially treated during their stay in Lincoln. On the night before ^-the game they were introduced to the stu­dent body of Nebraska who massed around the N. D. headquaiters at the Lincoln hotel in a demonstration, rivaling our own Home­coming celebration. There was a decided at­mosphere of good-fellowship in the Western air, spiced with a tang of college rivalry. The worthy "Judge" introduced his boys to the receptive mob; and "Rock," answering the unmuffled demand of the students, appeared and snapped out a little encouragement to 
the Nebraskans, which was received with good-natured raillerj^ After a big cheer for 
N. D. the meeting broke up, and our boys scattered to see the sights of the capital city. The team turned in at ten o'clock sharp to be safely tucked away by the little general. 
Thanksgiving day, the day of the game, was clear and moderate in spite of ominous forecasts of impending rain or snow. There was a forty-five mile an hour wind racing-down the field, giving advantage to the de­fenders of the West goal (which it did). The stands were crowded to overflow—it was the largest crowd that ever jammed into Ne­braska field, estimated at 16,000. Of course the great majority of the rooters waved ban­ners of Red and White, but the Gold and Blue was well represented. The N. D. side­line had a wealth of "official staff photogra­phers," "trainers," "reporters," even "a doc­tor," all of whom were staunch supporters of the Irish. 
The game was a battle from the first kick­off to the last play. The Irish were on the defense in the first half, and they showed their true mettle when they met that ter­rific onslaught. The Cornhuskers were big, extremely big, and they wanted to win that game. How that N. D. line did fight! How they, rose up and stopped those Nebraskan line crashers within a foot of the goal line. 
That evening the Catholic Club of the uni­versity gave a turkey banquet for both 
teams, and for as many others as the dining hall allowed. The turkey was good, the speeches were good and the singing was good. The harmony was ably furnished by a mixed quartet, They sang the Victory March and other pieces of almost equal merit. Continued friendship between the two schools was urged by all the speakers. An old N. D. alumnus gave a stirring talk, which he ended by saying that, "After all, Rockne is the best coach in the country, the Notre Dame team is the best team in the country, and Notre Dame is the best school in the country." 
We entrained that night and left Lincoln early the next morning. We arrived home satisfied with our coach, satisfied with our team, and satisfied with our school; but just a little perplexed over the final score of the game. However, a Notre Dame team may finish with the short end of the score but it is never "licked." So we give fair warning —"Gentlemen of Nebraska, watch out for next year!" 
Pittsburgh Chronicle-Telegraph. 
Head Coach Wally Steffen and not his assistant. Bob Wadell, together with Brumbaugh and Jimmy Robertson, saw Notre Dame play the strong Butler College team in Indianapolis Saturday and Steffen had plenty to say about the South Bend team in a talk to his squad yesterday. He predicts the hard­est kind of a battle here Saturday, and declares that the Skibos must be up to the forai they showed against Wash.-Jeff, in order to win. 
"I watched the Notre Dame plays carefully,'' commented Steffen, "their plays were only ordinary, a running attack and forward passes from about the same formations we use around Pittsburgh, but the way their men handled themselves, the way they tackled, followed the ball and executed these plays was a caution. I have rarely seen such great team work. They simply could not be stopped. 
"When the Butler game opened Notre Dame sent in their second team, and they looked mighty good. I commented upon the work of two of their back field players and told Brumbaugh and Robertson to prepare for them next Saturday. Imagine my sur­prise when during the second period Rockne, the Notre Dame coach, sent in an entire new team. It was his first string and then how the fur did fly. Butler College was simply rushed off their feet." 
Tsfie Noure ^m e Schdascic 
•' •• " • •• " " " " " " " " "" •• " " ••" " " 
• • .1 .1 •• .1 iJl .« H .« •» 
LIGHTNING AGAINST THE MOUNTAIN. 
HAKRY A. M'GUIRE. 
Suffering its third defeat in five years, and* its only one during the 1922 season, Notre Dame fell before Nebraska at Lincoln on Thanksgiving day, 14 to 6. The Cornhuskers won because.they outweighed us almost 20 
.pounds to the man, and because they faced an inexperienced team. Our line was almost helpless before the heavy, powerful Ne­braska forwards, who opened holes through which the backs could plow for relentlessly consistent gains. The Nebraskans used a simple steam roller attack, which could not be stopped merely because our men were too light. There were very few Cornhusker plays which were not evident to our players from the moment the ball was snapped. 
Notre Dame may have been outplayed, but there was not an instant at which she was outfought. Irish scrap prevented a score in the first quarter, when the Cornhuskers crashed to within one foot of our goal, from which they were thrown back in a glorious rally. 
In the second period Nebraska carried the ball over the line through constant line smashing, and later sprang a surprise pass. 
,that netted another score." In the third quar­ter the Fighting Irish opened up a bewilder­ing pass attack that resulted in a touchdown. From that time to the end of the game the Blue and Gold spirit dominated the field. At the start of the last period we rushed the ball to Nebraska's three-yard line, where weight told against us again and we lost the ball. 
Although the backfield lacked its mainstay, Castner, it was nevertheless a revelation. Obviously too light to gain much through a light line, it resorted frequently to foi-ward passes, and completed eight out of 14, for a total of 110 yards. Stuhldreher, Don Miller and Layden were our most versatile stars, but Crowley and Bergman also played won­derful football. The sophomore bunch that made 235 yards from scrimmage to Ne­braska's 290, constitutes a backfield of which Notre Dame may well be proud. 
Beef downed our line, but without looking up past history we are willing to bet that it was the scrappiest crowd that ever fought on Nebraska field. Capt. Carberiy and Ed De­gree faded from the football horizon in a blaze of glory. Carberry broke a finger ear­ly in the game, but bandaged it to another finger and went back to the fight. Degree was pounded unmercifully, but was always the line's main bulwark, as well as our best kicker. 
It would not be fair to single out any other star in the line. Every man gave all he had, and as a unit the line succeeded to a large extent in overcoming Nebraska's mountain-like superiorities in weight and ex­perience. 
Capt. Hartley and Dave Noble were the big men on Nebraska's team. Their gains through the line were deadly consistent, and it was they who executed the pass that re­sulted in the second score. 
After all, it was almost inevitable that Ne­braska should win. Had the Blue and Gold triumphed Rockne's men would have per­formed the gTeatest miracle in gridiron his­tory. And it is marvellous in itself that a team like ours, which on paper lacks many essential qualities, should bowl through a terrific schedule with but one defeat. 
Congratulations, Nebraska! You deserved to win. But beware, for next year you will face the same team and a new team com­bined. 
Shortly after the kickoff Nebraska got possession of the ball on her 40 yard line, and using straight football, marched steadily down the field to Notre Dame's one foot line. 
B26 '^e Noure Stome Scholascic 
Here the Blue and Gold held; on the fourth down tlie ball was fumbled and recovered by Nebraska, but the ball went to Notre Dame on downs. Degree made a spectacular punt that rolled to Nebraska's 25 yard line. The game was a see-saw affair from then until the end of the quarter. 
In the second quarter Nebraska started another powerful march which ended only when Hartley drove through the center of the Notre Dame line for a touchdo^vn. He i:icked goal. After an exchange of punts gave the ball to Nebraska in midfield late in the second quarter, Hartley, Noble and Lew­ellen drove through the Notre Dame line for consistent gains. A 15 yard penalty set Nebraska back to the N. D. 45 yard line. Hartley started around the Notre Dame left end, and as he was about to be tackled, tossed the ball to Noble, who dodged arid side stepped for 38 yards and the second touch­down. Hartley kicked goal. During the rest of the quarter the ball was in Notre Dame's terrif oiy, but was chiefly in her pos­session. 
Notre Dame took the ball on its own 24 yard line early in the third quarter, and with a brilliant passing attack carried it down the field 76 yards for a touchdown, Don Miller going ov^er after he had grabbed a forward pass from Layden, who threw from Ne­braska's 38 yard line. Layden's attempted dropkick for the extra point went wild. After this there were exchanges of punts, but near the end of the period Notre Dame opened another passing attack from their own 40 yard line which carried the oval to Nebraska's 11 yard line as the quarter «nded. Layden shot a pass to Stuhldreder which netted eight yards, and Layden and Crowley caried the ball eight more on two end runs. A pass, Stuhldreher to LaydeiT; netted 15 more, and another pass, Laj^^den to Stuhldreher, put the ball on the 11 yard line. 
Two assaults by Don Miller and one by X.ayden through Nebraska's line netted seven yards as the last period opened. But Stuhl­dreher was thrown for a five yard loss as he was attempting to pass, and Notre Dame's 
<;hance was lost. There were several ex­changes of punts, and three fumbles that 
prevented Notre Dame from getting under way. Crowley made a pretty pass to McNulty and Layden and Don Miller cracked off a few nice gains, but Notre Dame lost the ball on a fumble. H. Dewitz got away for a 45-yard run that put the ball on the Blue and Gold 15-yard line. But Nebraska's attack was not strong enough to put the ball over the line. After Nebraska failed at an attempted field goal, Notre Dame took the ball. Layden passed to Don Miller for 20 yards and the whistle blew with the ball in Notre Dame's possession on her 40-yard line. 
Lineup: 
NOTRE DAME. NEBRASKA. 
Carberry (Capt.), McNulty Schoeppel, Thomsen Left end. Stange, Cotton Wenke, McGlasson Left tackle. Brown, Weibel Berquist Left guard. Eegan, Walsh, Voss Peterson Center. Degree, Kizer Bassett, McGlasson Eight guard. Oberst Weller Right tackle. Vergara, Mayl Scherer Right end. Thomas, Stuhldreher RusseU, H. Dewitz Quarterback. Bergman; Crowley Noble, R. Dewitz, H. Dewitz Left halfback. Livergood, Layden Lewellen Fullback. Connell, D. Miller, G. Miller Hartley (Capt.) Right halfback. 
Officials: Referee, Walter Eckersall, Chicago; umpire, J. J. Schommer, Chicago; head linesman, 
F. H. Young, Illinois Wesleyan; field judge, H. G. Hedges, Dartmouth. 
INDIVIDUAL  SCORES  FOR  THE  SEASON.  
Touch­  Points  Field  
Player  downs After T. Goals  Total  
Castner  8  9  2  63  
Crowley  5  4  34  
D. Miller  5  30  
Stuhldreher  5  30  
Mayl  2  12  
Thomas  2  12  
Maher  2  12  
Layden  1  3  9  
Cerney  1  1  7  
Vergara  1  6  
Kane  ^  1  6  
Degree  _^  .  1  . .  1  



We Nocre Same Schdascic 
TROUNCING TECH. 
It is becoming quite common for teams on Notre Dame's schedule to prime during a large part of the season for our warriors, staking every chance on beating us and gain­ing nation-wide fame. The latest aggrega­tion to bet all they had against us was Car­negie Tech, who fell before- our terrific at­tack on November 25., 19 to 0. 
Notre Dame's attack, featured by the su­perlative play of Layden, Stuhldreher, Crowley, Bergman and Miller, was just what an ideal attack should be. Every man was so good that no individual starred. Notre Dame made 16 first downs to Tech's five, and netted 60 yards on passes. All of Tech's passes failed, while only one Irish toss went amiss. We used nothing but straight plays, but we executed them as a text-book might say they were to be executed. Substitutions were numerous, yet our new men seemed always as good as their predecessors. 
The line worked like a solid steel unit. Robertson, the widely-heralded Carnegie star, could make almost nothing through our forwards, and Brumbaugh did but little bet­ter. Our tackling was impressive—^hard, clean and deadly. Capt. Carberiy, Degree, Vergara, Regan and E. Miller formed the foundation upon which our impregnable wall rested. 
To start the game Stange kicked to Ander­son on the Tech 20 yard line. He ran it back 10 yards. Robertson and Brumbaugh smashed through for first down. Line plays failed and Anderson punted to Thomas who returned 15 yards to the Notre Dame 27 yard line. DegTee punted to Anderson, who was downed on his 45 yard line. Tech failed at the line again and Anderson tried an on­side kick, sending the ball out of bounds. Notre Dame put it in play on their 36 yard line. Bergman ran 35 yards at right end. With the ball on the Tech 35 yard line, Berg­man passed 12 yards to Carberry. 
Bergman made eight yards at right end. Connell hit left tackle for three yards and first down on Tech*s eight yard line. Lay­den fumbled and Stuhldreher recovered over the goal line for a touchdown for Notre Dame. Layden's attempted drop kick for 
point was blocked. Score, Notre Dame 6, Tech 0. 
Layden punted to Robertson, who made a fair catch on his own 49 yard line. Regan intercepted Robertson's pass on his 49-yard line. Miller ran nine yards on the first play^ Notre Dame was penalized five yards for off­side play and Crowley ran for a first down^ on Tech's 36-yard line. Notre Dame was-penalized five yards for offside play. Miller ran 21 yards at left end. Layden ran eight yards off tackle. Crowley ran six off tackle for first down on the Tech nine yard line^ Miller ran left end for a touchdown. Score,, Notre Dame 12, Tech 0. Layden missed the-drop kick try for goal. 
Anderson punted 40 yards to Stuhldreher, who was downed on the Notre Dame 35 yard line. Crowley went off right tackle for 22 yards. Tech was penalized five yards. Stuhl­dreher hit center for five yards. Miller rare eight yards for first down on the Tech 26^ yard line. Layden hit center for three and Crowley went off tackle for six. Crowley made three more and first down on the Tech 15-yard line. Layden made five yards off tackle. A forward pass Stuhldreher to Lay­den was good for a touchdown. Degree* kicked the point after touchdown. Score:: Notre Dame 19, Tech 0. 
NOTRE DAME. CARNEGIE TECH. 
Carbeiiy (Capt.), McNulty, Collins Potter-
Left  end.  
Stange  Zelt  
Left tackle.  
Flinn, Weibel  Comfort, Kristoff,  Eosenbloont  
Left  guard.  
Regan, Walsh  ,  Ir\Arin, Taylor  
*  Center.  
Degree,  Kizer  '— Gilbert  
Right guard.  
E. Miller, Oberst  Sprinkle- 
Right tackle.  
Vergara,  Mayl  Newman- 
Right end.  

Thomas, Stuhldreher ! Robei-tson, Wierman-Quarterback. Bergman, Crowley Moran, Lamb' Left halfback. Connell, D. Miller, Maher Anderson (Capt.) Right halfback. Livergood, Layden Brumbaugh-Fullback. 
Officials: Referee, Verry, Penn State; umpire, Daugherty, Wash.-JefF.; field judge, SusB, Prince­ton. 
lofte Houre ^ame §chola8Cic 
Michigan (41) B F P T FROM GRIDIRON TO FLOOR. 
Haggerty, If. 3 0 1 0 Although-handicapped by a slow start due • Miller, rf. 6 16 1 2 to the adaptation of several men from grid­Ely, c. 2 0 0 2 Paper, rf. 2 0 1 0
iron to floor work, Halas' cage quintet is 
Birks, Ig. 0 0 0 0
rapidly developing typical mid-season fonn. 
McGregor, Ig. 0 0 1 0 A practice game with the Michigan City Henderson, If. 0 0 1 0 
Y. M. C. A. ushered in the season December Stegeyer, rf. 0 0 2 0 Burkan, Ig. 0 0 1 0
4. Sheehan and Reardon starred in the 
Emery, c. .-0 110
game which resulted in a 31 to 25 victory 
Kresback, rg. 0 0 1 0
for Notre Dame. The score and summary 
Landry, If. 0 0 2 0 are: Cappon, Ig. 0 0 0 -1 
Notre Dame (31) B F ' P T 
Umpire, H. 'V. Millard, Illinois Wesleyan; ref­
Logan, f. 1 0 0 0 eree. Young, Illinois Wesleyan. Sheehan, i. 5 0 0 0 Zane, f. 0 0 10 
A different story was told the following 
T. Murphy, c 1 0 0 0 
night when the Michigan Aggies were 
lieardon, c. -3 0 0 0 
trounced 40 to 15. The Irish tossers showed 
Kizer, g 2 5 2 0 
JMayl, g. 0 0 3 0 exceptionally fine form and teamwork and, O'Boyle, g. 0 0 2 0 though a trifle slow in getting started, soon Enright, f. 10 0 0 
had the Farmers outpointed by their remark­able floor game. The summary :
Totals —13 5 8 0 Notre Dame (40) B F P T
IVIichigan City Y. M. C. A. (25) B F P T Precious, f. 4 0 2 0 Enright, rf. 4 10 1 0 Estes, f. 2 0 1 1 Sheehan, rf. 0 0 0 0 W- Cook, c. 0 7 10 Kane, If. ^ ^ 0 0 10 Heally, f. 1 0 1 0 Logan, If. 2 0 0 1 Loomis, g. 1 0 0.0 Mahoney, If. 0 0 0 0 
G. Cook, g. 10 2 0 Miller, c. 2 0 0 0 Moody, c. 0.0 0 0 Reardon, c. 2 0 3 0 Murphy, c. 0 0 0 0 
Totals 9 7 7 1 Kizer, Ig. J 4 0 2 0 Mayl, rg. ' ^ 10 2 0 O'Boyle, rg. 0 0 0 0
The strong Michigan team, which will probably prove to be one of the foremost in Michigan Aggies (15) B F P T the Big Ten, was met the following Friday, Cutler, If. 4 5 2 1 and despite a strong comeback in the second Demerrill, If.. 0 0 0 0 half, the score stood 41 to 23 with Notre. Ralston, If. . 0 0 0 0 
McMiller, rf. 0, 0 1 0
Dame on the debit side of the ledger. Dur­
Nutilla, rf. 0 0 0 0
ing the first half the Michigan tossers, in 
Bilkey, c. 1 0 2 0
typical mid-season form, ran up the over­
Richards, c. _1 0 0 1 1 whelming score of 29 to 7, but the Gold and Kuhn, c. 0 0 1 0 Blue came back'in the second half, outplay­Kidman, dg. : 0 0 0 0 Swanson, Ig. . 0 0 0 0
ing Michigan and outscoring them for the 
Eva, rg. 1 ; 0 0 3 0
half 16 to 12. 
Fessenden, rg, . 0 0 1 0 Notre Dame (23) B F P T Referee, Ray, JUinois; umpire, Millard, Illinois 
Mayl, rf. 0 0 2 0 Wesleyan; field judge. Young, Illinois Wesleyan. 
Kane, If. 0 0 0 2 Eeardon, c. 0 0 4 0 Kizer, rg. 3 13 1 2 Nobel Kizer and Rex Enright are the lum­
Sheehan, Ig. 1-0 0 0 1 inaries of this year's squad, Kizer playing an Logan, If. : 0 0 10 
excellent game at guard as well as being a 
Mahoney, If. 0 0 2 0 
remarkable basket-tosser, 
Enright, Ig. 2 0 1 0 
THIEMANN. 
MiUer, c. 0 0 2 0 
iSiiauaiCMumisTJ •.
itMi 
xx'' ^i 
'f^'^y-^' ? \ fr^'fr "i^f^tff 51 #' * ''i: f ^ p '^''«ps?l^»'^- ••^^W"*r: n^lj^Ki^:; 
,,c, ...^^•- NV 
THE TEAM. 
the forward pass as has no other coach in the coun­
BILLY EVANS SAYS. 
try. Notre Dame year after year has boasted an Chicago Post. .aerial attack that has made it one of the most 
While reviewing the records of the leading col­feared elevens in the country. 
lege coaches one must not overlook the remarkable In perfecting the aerial' game Rockne has not 
feats of Coach Knute Rpckne at Notre Dame. overlooked the fundamentals or the other essential 
Rockne, by the way, is a product of Notre Dame. features of a well-rounded eleven. As a result He captained the 1913 team which won seven games Notre Dame teams under Rockne have been well and lost none. When Jesse Harper, who had suc­coached. cessfully coached Notre Dame teams for five years, In his first year at Notre Dame Rockne's team retired, Rockne was called upon. won six and lost one game. This was in 1918. The 
Rockne faced a rather difficult task when he as-defeat was administered by the strong Nebraska .sumed Harper's place at Notre Dame. Under Har­team by the score of 7 to 0. per the "Fighting Irishmen" had been vei'y success­In 1919 and 1920 the Notre Dame team was un­ful. In five years the team had won thirty-five p,nd defeated, winning nineteen straight games. Last lost only five games. season Notre Dame won ton and lost one game. 
Under Rockne, Notre Dame has achieved its Iowa handed out the only defeat, 10 to 7, in a game greatest success on the gridiron, Ho has dcyelop'cc^ in whicli NPU'C JPamo gained twi'qg (^s wv'ch gTound, 
Q 
3 
CI 

'^e Noure dame Sdtidastlc 
THE SHIFT. 
WALTER ECKERSALL. 
Chicago THbune. 
The game ended shortly afterward with the ball in Nebraska territory in Notre Dame's possession. 
While great credit is due Nebraska, Coach Daw­son and Capt. Hartley, Notre Dame played a great uphill game, one w^hich brought forth rounds of ap­plause from even the stanchest Cornhusker ad­mirers. 
Coach Rockne is deserving of credit for develop­ing a team which has overcome handicaps all season. Defeated by Nebraska, held to a scoreless tie by the Ai-my, but victor over Georgia Tech, Carnegie Tech, Indiana, Purdue, and other elevens of the middle west, the season at Notre Dame may well be con­sidered a success. 
Among the notable guests at the game were Gen. Pershing, who marched around the field behind the Nebraska band before the game started. A. A. Stagg, football coach at Chicago, Esmon, scout at Ohio State, and several other leaders of the foot­ball world were in the stands. 
JAINIES J. LONG, 
Pittsburgh Sun. 
Particularly was it no disgrace to the Tartan wearers to go down in defeat before the University "of Notre Dame in Tech's concluding game of the year at Forbes Field last Saturday. Neither would it be a disgrace to any other team to lose to the power­ful westerners, for if Notre Dame's team, when Paul Castner is at his backfield post, doesn't come very close to being the best in the entire country local fans would like very much to get a look at one that is better or even as good. 
Pittsburgh gridiron devotees were prepared to see a fine team in Knute Eockne's aggregation, but what they saw exceeded all expectations. They saw a team that was class all the distance in every de­partment of the game, a team with a wealth of power, speed, skill and spirit, a team that could rip through the line or dash around the ends, a team that used the forward pass like a bunch of diamond athletes tossing a baseball around, a team that was just about 100 per cent perfect. 
True, Nebraska's big team, averaging 190 pounds, beat the Indiana .gridders on Thursday, but with such stars as Castner, Desch and Lieb missing, the Hoosiers clearly were far below their normal" strength and it was not Notre Dame's best team by any means that the Cornhuskers downed. The real class of the Notre Dame team may be judged from the fact that, while it looked like a world-beater against Tech here a week ago. Coach Rockne insists that Castner is 30 per cent of his eleven's strength and that the outfit was shy just that per­centage of its power against Tech and Nebraska by reason of the loss of Castner's services, -without counting the absence of Desch and Lieb. Rockne rates Castner the country's closest approach to the late George Gipp, except in the matter of durability, Castner being more susceptible to injury than was Gipp. 
All-around, Notre Dame gave one of the most pleasing exhibitions of football here that local fans have had the privilege of witnessing in a long time, and by no means the least feature of its play, and one detail that makes it stand out beyond most teams in the country, is the fact that it had such a big string of bigh-class players in reserve that it was able to replace every regular with a substi­tute who looked just about as good as the man he supplanted. As one wag observed after the game, "Notre Dame is two of the best teams I have ever seen." Needless to say. Coach Rockne and his In­diana stars will be among the most welcome visitors of the season here next year when they come back for another game with Tech. 
Springfield (Mass.) Rejniblican. 
It was reported in press dispatches from New York earlier in the week that Notre Dame would not play West Point next year—^that relations were to be broken oif. This was followed by a news story from South Bend, Ind.—^home of Notre Dame—in which Knute Rockne, coach of the "Fighting Irish," was reported as stating that West Point would have a place on their schedule as usual. But—will these old rivals meet, again? There may be some change made before the 1923 season rolls around, unless Eastern alumni of Notre Dame are mistaken. 
Eastern grads of the South Bend university who attended the Army-Notre Dame game at West Point a week ago Saturday are loud in their denunciation of the conduction of the game, both from the play­ing standpoint and the lack of facilities accorded the spectators. It is claimed that several thousand people who had journeyed Idng distances to witness the garne. were unable to even get more than a long­distance glimpse of the gridiron. 
The feeling is general apiong the alumni, it is said, that one of the chief objects of a football game is to bring the alumni together with a renewal of the old college ties—a chance to cheer for their 
ieam. Under present conditions at West Point this is absolutely impossible. First of all West Point is an unliandy place to get to and secondly there are no reserved seats there. The result is that the Notre Dame alumni of the East, who make this game an objective each season, have never been able to secure any reserved seats and are scat­tered all over the' grounds, many of them never meeting at all. In addition there is an exasperating wait at the ferries after the game, all of which makes attendance at the game more a test of en­durance than an athletic pastime. 
At the game this year it was estimated that more 

'^e Houre dame Sehdascic 
than 5000 people, many of whom had motored from distant points, were unable to see the game at all, and returned to their homes disappointed and weary. 
Notre Dame has won six out of eight games from the Army and tied one, so the series no longer pos­sesses the interest that a closer series would provide. The old grads fail to see why Notre Dame should provide annual instruction for the Army team be­fore its Navy game and this is really what the series has degenerated into, it is claimed. At all events the Eastern alumni are emphatically protesting against the continuance of the series and hope that negotiations will be entered into with either Dartmouth or Cornell for an intersectional game to be played in New York City, at either the Polo Grounds or the Yankee Stadium. 
Neivs-Times. 
Acclaimed the "fightinest" of the lighting Irish teams, Notre Dame's 1922 football squad was hon­ored by 200 members of the University Club at the annual football dinner which was served in the Eotary room of the Oliver hotel last night. 
At the session Coach Knute Eockne made definite announcement of the booking of Georgia Tech for the 1923 Homecoming game on Oct. 27. First steps to secure a stadium to seat 40,000 people were taken as the other feature of the banquet. 
Speakers of the evening included Mayor Eli F. Seebirt, Coach Knute K. Eockne, Harry Costello of Detroit, Mich., Assistant Coach Walter Halas and Capt. Glen Carberry. Frank E. Hering acted as toastmaster. 
The stadium plan was brought out by Mayor Seebirt in his address of welcome to the Notre Dame squad. As a result he was named chairman of a committee to confer with university officials in an effort to devise a plan to raise $150,000 necessary to build the stadium. 
"Our biggest problem in aiding Notre Dame's wonderful football teams," said the mayor, "is in securing leading teams for home games. This can only be done by ha\dng proper facilities for hand­ling great crowds." 
Coach Eockne, in his talk, explained that efforts had been made this fall to secure bookings for next season with Syracuse, Colgate, Centre, Lafayette, "Washington and Jefferson, Dartmouth and a half dozen other big teams, but that these elevens would not leave their home field for guarantees of even as much as $12,000. 
He" announced, however, that the Georgia Tech game would be played in South Bend as the Home­coming game and nowhere else. He also declared that the Nebraska and Carnegie Tech games in 1924 would be played here. 
"The success of this season is due to one thing," said Eockne, "and that is the team's fight. I think the squad reached the apex of its strength in the 
Georgia Tech game, for after that we never had all the men in condition at one time. We lost the Nebraska game because we missed our chances to score largely through inexperience. It is the 'fight­inest and tackliest' team I have ever had, and it fought to the end. Our colors were ftying on the last play at Nebraska, when a pass netted 40 yards/* 
Harry Costello, a former Georgetown university quarterback, now writing sports for one of the De­troit dailies, paid the greatest of tributes to the team. Costello, who ofiiciated at the Army game, said: 
"It is good to be here to pay tribute to a foot­ball team the like of which I have never before seen. At West Point I was dumbfounded when the squad ran on the field. It was the youngest football team I ever saw represent a imiversity. 
"Three essentials of success that it possessed were the heart, the ability, and the best of coaching. These things are what made the year a success. I particularly noted two men—^Paul Castner and Ed Degree. 
"Castner and Kipke of IVIichigan were undoubt­edly the greatest backs of the year, and of these Castner was the greatest. He played intelligent football, and I do not believe he has a superior. I have seen all the great backs since 1910 with the exception of George Gipp, and none was faster or more aggressive than this man. I class Castner with the man greatest of them all in my mind—^the Indian, Jim Thorpe. 
"Degree possessed weight, plenty of strength in his arms and shoulders and a powerful leg drive. He opened some big holes in the Army line, and that line was as good as any in the country. 
"In short, I never saw a team that looked so sweet as that gang of boys going down the field at West Point." 
Coach Halas lauded the men for their fight and stick-to-itiveness, while Capt. Carberry expressed his thanks to the University Club for the banquet given the team. Eev. Eobert J. Long gave the in­vocation. 
Entertainment during the evening included songs by the Cameron Sisters and Miss Betty Allen, a monologue by Nelson Jones, a dialect reading by Lee Barth, a series of specialties by Daw and Eus­sell, and motion pictures of the Army game. 
Chicago Herald-Examiner. 
After All—I hear a great many people regretting the fact that Princeton's football team will not play here again. Like many others, I think that Notre Dame could fill the bill as nicely as Princeton or any other eastern team, and they probably would not keep the crowd in suspense as long as Princeton did. They would not be apt to insist upon a home­and-home game, as that crowd of fighting Irish seems to make itself at home on any old baUfield. 
OOi 
'^e Nocre bame §lcho\asv\c 


WALK=OVER 
DRESS OXFORDS $8.00 
Have you seen the new Walk-Over Dress Oxford on the Claridge last? You will like this new last—it looks right on your feet. 
C LOUIE'S 

DooT SHOP 
US' SaMlCMIGANfT. 


After Every Meal 
!5)«­
si^ 
^ ^^. 
k'SS^ i 
The 

Flavor Lasts 
e-«« 
BOOK LEAVES. 
Two important serials begin in the December is­sues of Sc7-ibner's and Century. The first install­ment of Edith Wharton's "A Son at the Front" ap­pears in Scribneo'^s, while the first chapters of "Faint Perfume" by Zona Gale are published in the Century. We hope that "A Son at the Front" is not so atrociously insipid as was "Glimpses of the Moon." 
"Apparently the novel and the short story, as we have known them," writes Henry Seidel Canby in considering the younger generation of American writers,, "are to be scrapped. Plot, which began to break down with the Russians, has crumbled into a maze of incident. You can no longer assume that the hero's encounter with the Gipsy in Chapter II is preparation for a tragedy in Chapter XXIX. In all probability the Gipsy will never be heard from again. She is irrevelant except as a figment in the author's memory, as an incident in autobiog­raphy. Setting, the old familiar background, put on the story like wall-paper on a living room, has suffered a sea change also. It comes now by flashes, like a movie-film. What the ego remembers, that it describes, whether the drip of a faucet or the pimple on the face of a traffic policeman." 
"The Story of Extension" by the Right Reverend Francis C. Kelly is an interesting chronicle of the development of the Catholic Church Extension So­ciety during the last 20 years. Mgr. Kelly, who has been closely identified with the Extension move­ment, writes in an entertaining manner. The book is relieved by frequent humor and enlivened by numerous anecdotes about men and affairs. 
Henry S. Canby, best known perhaps as the editor of the Literary Review of the New York Evening Post, has collected a group of essays in contem­porary criticism into a volume which he calls "Definitions." The book is highly interesting in its examination of the present tendencies in American literature. The essays on "The Young Romantics" and "A Literature of Protest" are a stimulating at­tempt to analyze and appraise the revolt of the younger writers. 
Looking through the pages of "Babbitt" again, we are forced to the remark that the best pages of the book are those devoted to the smoking com­partment dialogue in which Babbitt and Riesling participate on their vacation trip. 
Thomas L. Masson, for twenty-five years editor of Life, is now conducting the department "Short Turns and Encores" in the Saturday Evening Post 
1 
The Nation offers one hundred dollars for the best poem submitted to it during the month of De­
Tofie Nocre ^ame Scholascic 
cember William Lyon Phelps calls "Adrienne Toner" by Anne Douglas Sedgwick the best novel of the year "H. L. Mencken's prose," writes Eobert Littell in the Neiu Republic, "sound like large stones 
being thrown into a dump cart. He has more gusto than humor, more weight than edge, more appetite than taste, and a great deal more ink than intellect." 
For the crematory such books as this, "One Hundred Best Books," by John Cooper Powys "Nine Holes of Golf,"' a golf book written for ama­teurs by Eoyal Cortissoz, should find its way into the hands of a few Notre Dame golf enthusiasts. 
"The Best Short Stories of 1922," the yearly anthology edited by Edward J. O'Brien, will have a companion this year in "The Best British Short Stories of 1922, which will be edited by O'Brien assisted by John Cournos.... "The Stag Cook Book" has probably been needed more than any other book of recent publication. It is a cook book "written by men for men," containing many notable recipes, including one from President Harding for waffles, v/hich he eats with gravy instead of sirup "I imitated Carlyle—^the Carlyle of 'Sartor'—till my mother, who wrote p"ure, undefiled English gave me Cardinal Newman," wrote the late James Gibbons Huneker in one of his letters. "With Flaubert he has^ been my model."... ."Phantom" by Gerhard Hauptmann, which appeared in the Freeman, is be­ing published by Huebsch "Dante and His Influ­ence" is a collection of lectures originally delivered at the University of Virginia by the late Thomas Nelson Page Nine days left to buy your Christmas books.... "Books are^ friends which every man may call his oivn." 
We do not know exactly why, but "Niels Lyhne," by the Danish novelist J. Peter Jacobsen, reminds me very much of Ricardo Leon's "A Son of the Hidalgos," for all its Spanish quality. In both books development of character is achieved through experiences with women, wise and foolish, and in both the author's criticism is aimed at romanticism. What an opportunity there is for a twentieth-cen­tury Do7i Quixote,—an opportunity which many have sought but which no one has transcendently fulfilled. Jacobsen is very distinctly inferior. One is greatful for the brooding, strangely solid charac­ter of his imagination, for the reflective seriousness of his observations. But the pantheism he sponsors is opposition to the starved conventions of a primi­tive Protestant belief is already too old to move us t—^he book was written forty years ago—and litera­ture has welcomed so many analyses of people simi­lar to Niels Lyhne that we find it difficult to regard his experiences with any great interest. The women he books are, however, very real. Bartholine, the mother, is an untainted Madame Bovary. Edele, 
Mrs. Boyefi Fennimore and Gerda are substantial beauties who tell secrets of love and disillusionment with more than usual readiness. Their portraits, by Jacobsen, are worthy to stand in any gallery which cares for women, not as they might be, but as they really are. 


High Class Picture Plays are the Standard Features 
AT THE 

La Salle and Blackstone 
The craftsmanship of W. L. DOUGLAS shoes will ac­complish the retirement of your shoe worries. 
W. L, DOUGLAS SHOE STORE 
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 

Tofte Nocre 5ame Scholastic 
Sterling-Midland Coal Co. 

GLENDORA 
THE WONDER COAL OF THE WEST 
Fourth Vein, Indiana 
Clinton and Linton Districts 
Jewel-Du Quoin Perry County, Illinois 
FISCHER BUILDING CHICAGO 
Scotch Grain Oxfords 

$12.00 
—You'll certainly like these 
"He-man" sturdy shoes. 
—They're made by Stetson and are shown as the newest thing this fall. 
—Drop in any time. 

SHOE^ STORES 
ALFRED J. KLINGEL. PROP. 
Two STXMES FoaYoua CoNvcNieNce-
UWES'sCniLDRHl'S SHOP ^. IgftSlOP RtUCE THEATRE out . OUVBiTHEATliE BUNi. SOUTH BEND. IND. 
:S/ 
"THE OLIVER" 
Indiana's Finest Hotel 
Fireproof SQUXH BEN D ROOMS 
Dining Room .Open All Night 
l^SWS 
SPFLD. LIMA 
ILL. OKIO 
I 21 2 S. Michigan, Blackstone Bldg. DR. F. W. VAUGHN 
DENTIST and 
ORTHODONTIST 617 J. M. S. Building, South Bend, Ind. 
THE LIGHT OF THE VISION 
By CHRISTIAN REID 262 pp.—Price $1.75 
THE AVE MARIA : NOTRE DAME, IND. 
Patronize Scholastic Advertisers 











0 F F I C I A·'t 
1924 Football Review 
University of Notre Dame 
Edited hv 
HARRY McGUIRE · ]ACT.\ SCALLAN 
._.;~... 
CONTRIBUTORS  
Thomas .Coman  Oeorqe Bischoff  Eustace Cullinan  
Lester Heqele William Reid  Francis Miller David Hickelj ·  .Lester Gradv Franklin Conwalj  
Charles Donahue  Prof. Charles Phillips  Frank Masterson  
Wilbur lylcEirolj  James Armstrong  Gerald Holland  

The editors wish to acknowledge the assistance given bv Mr. Rockne,-Mr. Harrv Elmore and Mr. AI. Rvan in the compilation ofthis Review 


r 1­
I 
i 
II .. 
t 
I 
i• 
I I 

I 
I 
I· 
l 
I 



CAPTAIN WALSH and COACH ROCKNE 

THIS 1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
is Dedicated to~­

Out of the West Came Roclc and his men; 
Lightning o7~ lightning flashed, 
Thunder on mountains crashed, 
Into the East they smashed-Roclc and his men. 
On to the field 
Come Roclc and his men Fighting a foreign foe, Hitting them high and low, Down to the goal they go­
.Roclm.t/s men. 
There on the field 
Stand· Roclc ·and his men; Sound of the whistle dies, Up to the farthest slcies · Boom now the frenzied cries, 
·uRoclc and your men!" 
North, east, south and ·w~st 
So Roclc and his men­Riding the •wings of speed, Galloping, steed on s.teed, Slcirting the ends· lilce flame, Cyclones whose very fame Devastates •with a name­
uRoclc and his m.(m., 
Baclc to the West 
Come Roclc and his men; Baclc to their comrades true, Under the Gold and Blue­Fighting men turned from war, Hear they the awful roar Smiting the heaven·s for 
Roclc and his m.en. 
H. A. McGuire 
......-., 

__ , 

' -­
T
HE CHRONICLE of the 1924 seasoh, as offered to you in the paqes to follow, has,. its {~zipiration in. the achievements and traditions that cluiracterize· the University of Notre Dam-e and its student .body. 
JVhat success it has beeit the privilege of the team to cnjo,lf duri;zg the 1924 football season can be attributed to a wholesome inter~st_ in the act_ivities of the ·student bod,1f b.1J those men who represent N_otr_e Dame on the gridiron. Their_ efforts hav-e been expeizded-, ·at all times,· in a spirit' of lo.1falty-to Jlotre Dame. JVorldng as a unit for the success of the team, forgetting th~ individ­ual, personal interest, the men on the squad have ac­complished their purpose. It has, been team-worlc, sub­11iission to discipline, .the employment ()f mental faculties to mee~ conditim!s·as they arose, that figured prominent­l.1f in their victories. 
To ever.1J man on the squad, to thos-e who have ·worlced in gm1zes, scrimmages, practices, is full. credit forthcom­ing. 
It is a 11leasure to be the coach of sitch _a group f!f. . gentlemen, students and athletes.. · 
K. K! .ROCKNE. 



I" 
I l 
j 
j 
I 
I 


; . .;:1,;~+ KNUTE K. ROCKNE of NOTRE DAME  


····. __.. 
---~-----­

..;.-\ 

:, ' -~ 
... 
·~ -­
1924 FOO'TBALL REVIEW
Page 6 
-i . 
! I 
: . .. . 



The 19.24 Victories 
October 4 _________________.___Notre Daine___________.40; Ltnnbard ----------------0 Octber 11 -~------------------Notre Danle---------"--34; Wabash ~-----------------0 Octobei· 18 __________________Notre Daine____________13; Army ----------------------7 Octobei· ·25 __________________Notre Dmne____________12; Princeton --------------0 N ove1nber 1· ___________._____Notre Daine.-----~-----34; Georgia Tech________ 3 Nove1nber 8 __·______________Notre Dame____________38; \~Tisconsin --------------3 N ove1nber 15 :-------------Notre Da1ne____________3:4; Nebraska ----------------6 N ove1nber. 22 --~------: ____Notre .D.anle____________13 ~ N ortlnvestern --------6 November· 29 .. -~-'-----------N o~re Dan1e-----~----·__40; Carnegie Tech ______19 


Total nunlber of p_oints .~cored: ~otre Dame, 258; Opponents, 44. 
I. 



The 1929 Schedule 
~ 
Septe1nber 27-.Baylor ·university at -~ otre Da1ne October 3-Loinbard at' Notre Dame October 10-,Beloit ·at Notre D·ame October i7~:v\Test Point :at Yankee Stadilun, Ne'v York October 24-l\iinnesot.a ·at.l\iinne.n.polis October 31-Georgia Tech at. Atlanta November 7-Carnegie Tech at N otl~e Dame November 14-Penn State at State College, Pa. November 21-Nortlnvestern at Notre Dame · November 28-Nebraska at Lincoln 

:.~:....· ... ~ -· --··----------~---~-_,. ___ .. 
1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
I 
i I 4 I 
I 

The Officers of the 1924 Varsity 
KNUTE K. RoCKNE ------------------·········· I-Iead Coach ToM LIEn ········~·-··---------------------: ••• Assistmit Coach HARTLEY ANDERSON -------------------"Assistant Coach GEoRGE KEoGAN --------------------------Freshman Coach GEORGE VERGARA ·-------~Assistant Freshman Coach 
AtiAl\1 \VALSH --------------··-----·---·---------------·-· Captain 


LEo SuTLIFFE ·--------~-------·-----·----Student ~tanager 
· The Personnel .. 
I 

\VALSH 
\VEIDEL CERNEY RoAcH HANOUSEK
I 

CRoWLEY BACH · CoNNEL O'BoYLE GLUECI\:ERT 
~ :MILLER E. :MILLER CROWE HEARNDON HARRINGTON STUHLDREHER CoLLINS EATON REESE . 1\:lcl\fANl\ION LAYDEN HuNSINGER . HARMON HousER BoLAND 
KIZER LIVERGOOD . ScHERER EDWARDS :MAXWELL 
G. :MILLER ~Icl\luLLE~T 
The Reserves 

KEEFE CoHEN ANDERDERGER 'SULLIVAN GEBHARDT RIGALI REIDY CANNY DAHMAN ~IcCAnE 
c. REILLY BIELLI ·.1\fuLiiN: FRISKE GISH TRUCKNER \VHALEN 1\fcNALLY GoRMAN DIENHART \VHILTE EGGERT STACK \VYNNE ARNDT 
WALLACE E. CRowE CouGHLIN BROWN 1\fuRRIN 1\fAYER PRELLI GENIESSE 




192.4 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
Assistant Coaches. 
In the building of the N<?tre Dame Rockne was fortunate to hav~ had as 
freshman coach; and Hartley Anderson varsity line coach. 
tackle in the years 1920-21-22. playing at right tackle, was headed for a 
sustained in the Purdue game .cut short 
I 
his gridiron career. 

~ 
·Lieb returned in .track however and balanced his loss of football .honors by gaining fame as a discus thrower, win­ning the state title, representing · the United States ·on the discus team in the 
1924 Olympics and :finally breaking the 

world's i·ecord in the discus throw last September. Lieb is a member of the Illinois Athletic club. To Lieb goes much of the credit for the caliber of the No-. 
.. tre Dame line this year, which weilded a terrifying power
1 

j 
over all opponents and paved the way for an untied and undefeated season. 
Assisting Tom Lieb in preparing the linemen for the 
great campaign was :flartley "Hunk" Anderson, another former Notre Dame player who served at the left guard berth during the years 1919-20-:-21. He holds the unique record of recovering two fumbles. in quick succession against P~rdue ~nd running for touchdowns each time. Anderson and Lieb were former teammates of George Gipp, Notre Dame's all-time all-American. 
J 
George Keogan came· to Notre Dame 
j 
in 1922 and assisted Rockne in football, 
serving as ~lead coach of basketball and 

baseball. Coach Keogan has worked with Rockne for two years in the task I of building up winning. football teams~ The freshman squad under the tutelage of Keogan has stood up against the· varsity and fought with 'the
I 
regulars to put them in condition for the season's grind. 
! 

I George Vergara assisted Keogan this year in drilling the yearling squad for scrimmage against the varsity, the :first year men using the opposition's formations. Vergara played one year with Fordham before coming to No­
tre Dame and serv.ed two years with the Fighting Irish at end and ·guard.GEO.VERGARA 






Adatn Walsh 
Captain 
No matter how brilliant are painted the 
many episodes that appeared in the 1924 season of Notre Dame football, episodes of sensational victories and sterling indi­vidual performances, the historians who fifty years hence recount the deeds of the Fighting Irish will be drawn by a special force to the chronicle of the career of Adam vValsh, center and captain of the national champions. 
The particular special force that em­bellishes the. work of Notre Dame's fight­ing captain who will long be remembered in the annals of the sport. with Gipp, Thorpe, Coy, Heston and Grange, is one common to human nature since the begin­ning of time. :Men are quick to admire a leader of ultra-courageous qualities, and in Adam Walsh the poets will find a cap­tain in all the fullness of the qualities that are expected from a leader. 
Notre Dame tradition years hence will sparkle with the narrative of the football player who fought ~he mighty Army host on Oct. 18, 1924 at the Polo Grounds in New ·york, with two broken hands; who was knocked out several times in the 
course of the game and had to be lifted to his position. For weeks after the Notre Dame eleven had made its victorious sweep through the east, the sport circles along the east coast hitherto given entirely to Yale, Harvard and Princeton, were hubs of excited comment and discussion about the Notre Dame captain. Written tribute crowded the pages of the daily press and an­other~ football demi-god was proclaimed, and rightly so. 
It was a thing to marvel at, the feeling of security that settled over the foot~all fans at a Notre Dame game when Adam Walsh ran out on the field to take his place at center. Without the slightest hesitation he was accepted as the last word in capability and Captain Walsh never gav~ the sporting world reason to believe otherwise. 
Notre Dame's captain will be looked upon ti] the end of time as one of the most ideal cap­tains that ever led a Notre Dame football team. His unlimited courage and fearlessness com­bined with an unquestionable ability to play the game was the great factor that made Rockne's. eleven the most united football team of the year. Of course it will never be forgotten that Walsh served with men whose devotion to Notrc Dame was established beyond reproach and whose fidelity to the teachings of .Rockne was the reason why Notre Dame. is national cham­pion today. The player's devot.ion to their school was manifested in their support of their captain and no one lived who could question the fact why they supported their captain. 



1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 11 
Great leaders of armies whose deeds are recorded in history have always been men who never asked their men to do what they themselves would not attempt to do. Those leaders were men who took no pains to spare their lives at the expense of their comrades. Adam '\Valsh re­sponded to everything the spirits of great leaders asked of him. He was in every play on defense and on offense and exercised inimitable judgment in ·directing his team in the path of victory. 

Walsh came to Notre Dame from Hollywood high school in 1921, where he excelled in four major sports. In stature he is typical of the strong, ,well proportioned men who live along our 1vestern ·coast. His year on the freshman team at Notre -Dame was short lived, an injury keeping him out of competition for the better part of the year. 
For. definite information and minute details of Adam "\Valsh's brief stay with the yearling eleven, Hartley "Hunk" Anderson, Ojay Larson and Harry 1\Iehre could give a good account. Against these men, the green fresl1man team were forced to contend and night after night they were subject to mu<:h punishment, sacrificing themselves for the sake of Rockne and· the team that was to carry the colors through a glorious· year, marred only by the Iowa defeat. 
In 1922 "\Valsh made his first appearance on the varsity and alternated with Bill Voss and Bob Reagan in holding down the center of the line through a hard· season, tarnished again 1vith defeat, this time by Nebraska... In 1923, "\Valsh carried most of the burden, ably assisted by Reagan who was playing his last year. 
Two years of playing had served to bring "\Valsh to the fore-front in. American college foot­ball. In the Army game of 1923, "\Valsh decisively outplayed and ou.tfought the mighty Gar­~isch who was then play!ng his se~enth ·year of varsity football. . · 
In 1924, Walsh at center for Notre Dame met Garbisch, the center and captain of the Army, and the minute by minute. account of that memorable struggle beggars all description: 
Every voi~e in the land recounted the story of the heroic captain who led his team· to victory against the greatest eleven of the east, and fought off the crashing, plunging backs in the lVest Point backfield with a bone broken in each hand. 
. Adam '\Valsh played his last game in the middle 'vest against Carnegie Tech, and out of the bitter strife of a cold wintry afternoon arose another picture of the fighting captain, painfully injurcd, but always fighting doggedly to hold on and stem the rush of the _victory hunting hordes in front of him. 
A half a century hence, the story of Adam 'Valsh and the great Notre Dame team of 1924 \\,:ill be pretty. much of a legend, one of the outstanding adornments of Notre Dame's tradi­tions. The wild applause of the stands :will be but an echo rolling down through the valley of time. "\Valsh and the players who are today the idols of the nation will then have run the gauntlet of the time and from a high mountain, they will look down upon the glorious past and all the colorful triumphs garnered by the spirit of youth in eager quest of victory and the spoils of conquest. \ 
In the shadows of the sunset of life when the past has sunk into oblivion, Adam 'Valsh will have his treasured memories and the men who fought with ~lim and the men who yelled and prayed for. him will have memories-mem­
ories of a fearless captain. T. CoMAN, '25 

I 
I 
I 
Page 1.2 19.24 FOOTBALL REVIEW 


THE TEAM 
Adam Walsh Captain 
Adam \Valsh of Hollywood, California, closes a football career without a parallel in the history of the sport, at the Tournament of Roses on New Year's Day, a few miles from the plac~ where the blonde giant learned the game in high 
school. Volumes of praise could be written about Adam Walsh. Confined to this brevity, the least that can be said about him is that he was a brave and worthy leader. He played the game as few men have ever played it before him. · He was magnifi­cently unselfish and gave his best for Notre Dame. 
Sheer grit and determination upheld by the courage of a fighting heart has won for Adam· Walsh a place for all time in f# the hearts of the football world. · 
I I
James Crowley Left Half..Back 
James "Sleepy" Crowley of Green Bay, Wisconsin, has 
I been an enigma to the sporting world for three years ·during which time he has added considerably to the history of the sport with performances beyond description and imitation. 
He appears on the football field as the strange combina­tion of two opposites: slow, carele~s indifference, and the speed I of a deer. His unique poise has been one of the inexplicable chapters in the game, for, from dead idle stance; Crowley is transformed· in an instant into a racing demon, the _terror of 
I

teams and one of· the hardest players to tackle. He is a mem­ber of the "Four Horsemen" and one of the most versatile half­1 backs in the country. His running, passing and kicking have 
I
won for him unlimited honors, but they seem to make not the slightest difference to the youth with the droll honor, who 
I
luggs the ball and never fails. Jimmie has not failed to make a backfield position on every 
\
All-American picked this year. 
I 
Elmer Layden !full-Back 
J
Elmer Layden of Davenport, Iowa, made his debut in Not:re Dame football heralded by a great prep school reputation. Un­like many other youthful stars whose entry into college foot­
I
ball marks the end of their trail of gridiron accomplishments, Layden tacked his hopes and ambitions to higher rewards and the close of his. brilliant football career finds him one of the -~ most accomplished players of the age. He is almost a universal j·choice for All-American honors. 
I 
A member of the nationally known "Four Horsemen," the bullet fullback who shoots his body through space for long 
I
gains, has been one of the most consistent performers on the I Notre Dame team for the past three years. His general all­around ability as punter, drop-kicker, passer, ball-carrier par excellence, has made him of incomparable value to the team. 
I
His work in the interference has no equal and on defense he backs up the line to the final degree of perfection. He has I fought for Notre Dame in many memorable battles during his three years of competition in which time he has been a marked I man like so many of his teammates. Stanford will see him in his last game and Layden will be ready to acquit himself to the best of his ability for the team and for Notre Dame. . I 
I 
I 
I I I 
. ' . ~' . 




1924 FOOtJ"BALL REVIEW Page 18 


fiarry St4hldreher 
Quarter-Back 

Beloved fandom and the impresarios of the sport page have christened Harry Stuhldreher, of Massilon, Ohio, with a multi­tude of names, descripted of his prowess as a football quarter­back, and the power behind the Notre Dame attack. 
The "field general" of Rockne's eleven, the "pilot of the four horsemen," the "most br~lliant quarterback that ever trod the white lined field" are but a thimble full· of Stuhldreher's titles. All the superlatives in the language have been ex­hausted in a vain attempt to describe the Notre Dame pilot.The "Napoleon of the gridiron" whose playing has been one of the paramount sensations of the season, prepared at Kiski and since his first game in college football, has been the mov­ing factor behind the Notre Dan:te attack. 
Stuhldreher who has been picked on every All-American team thus far selected, has keen intelligence and a quick pre­ception which enables him to diagnose plays and direct the de­fense. On the offense, he stu_dies his opponents and directs the play where it will do the most good. He has supreme confi­dence in his teammates and is known to take long chances when a break migpt mean disaster. Coach Stagg, of Chicago, not given much to comment, merely shook his head and said, "My,what a quarterback." 
Don Miller 



Right Half,Back 
Don Miller of Defiance, Ohio, the last of the Miller "Mo­hicans," carved his name in football's hall of fame close beside that of Layden, Stuhldreher and Crowley, as one of the bril­liant quartet of "Horsemen." 
A youth who did not look to be the football flash the country knows so well today, came to Notre Dame in 1921. He served his apprenticeship with Castner, Bergman and Maher and in 1923 became undisputedly identified with the so-called "Four Horsemen." Saturday after Saturday, Don Miller fol­
. lowed in the dazzling pace set by his famous brothers ·and touchdowns became a matter of custom. This year, he added to his laurels as one of the best forward pass receivers in the country and continue<J. his mad pace, slashing off the tackles and careening around the ends at a dizzy pace, following per­fect interference. 
The Georgia Tech eleven of 1923 have the pleasure of look­ing back to the day, when Miller treated the southerners to a sparkling track meet. 
Don has received either a position, or honorable mention on· every All-Western and All-American teams picked this fall. 


Edgar Miller 
Right Tackle 
His physical proportions and innate fighting qualities made "Rip" Miller of Canton, Ohio, one of the best tackles Notre Dame has ever had. His massive form, well carried and em­ploye.d to the best advantage by a mind tha~ ~ne:v the game, has prevailed before some of the finest opposition m the coun­try, making it difficult for a gain through the Notre Dame line. 
"Rip" served two years as understudy to Cotton and Oberst, but when the last season rolled around and Rockne be­gan to build up his line for the hardest of campaigns, Miller stepped into the right tackle berth and as a regular, performed his work with great credit. His speed and aggressiveness made him a dangerous man at all times, and the opponent's backfield considered it a toss-up as to which side of the line to try, Bach or Miller; a back could not get by either of them. 

• • ? -~ • • i :· ~ -~ ~. ' • , ~ ---• -" • 
----__:__ ~ _: ... · -·.-... ­
Page 14 1924 FQO·TBALL REVIEW 
John Weibel Right Guard 
John Weibel, of Erie, Pa., was introduced to Rockne in the spring practice of 1922, after playing with Brownson hall dur­ing his freshman year. Hi_s qualities as a guard were not long in presenting themselves to the Notre Dame coach, and the close of three years of college football finds "\Veibel today, re:­garded as one of the greatest linemen ever developed at Notre Dame. 
His work on the offense· was a mighty factor in paving the way for the fleet Irish bacj{s. Weibel, one of the lightest guards in major college football, weighing 165 pounds, served as understudy to Capt. Harvey Brown for two years and in the last year of his competition, cinched a regular guard berth without dispute. He formed with Noble Kizer and Adam "\Valsh one of the most powerful center trios that has ever worn a Notre Dame uniform.· His <;lefensive playing bespeaks a stout heart and his courage never faltered in the face of line plunges by mighty backs. 
Joe Bach 
Left-Tackle 
Joe Bach, of Chisholm, Minn., after serving two years with exceptional credit in the Notre Dame line, will wear the mole­skins for the _last time against Leland Stanford. His passing will. leave a huge gap on the left side of the line that will be hard to fill. 
Bach ascended the ladder of fame by leaps and bounds after the Army game of 1923, when he appem;eg at the tackle berth to take the place of Gus Stange who haQ. been injured. Critics called him the tackle find of the year, and his massive strength rose to immeasurable proportions in front of the Army line, paving the way for another triumph. 
His powers of courage are the equal of any which have ever been displayed in football, and when he was knocked out in the Nebraska game, the fans .realized that the. going was pretty tough in the line. He was a hard and sure tackler and it was not an uncommon sight to .see Bach throw the offensive ball carrier for a loss. Bach played one year at Carlton college be­fore coming to Notre Dame. . 
Charles Collins Left End 
"Chuck" Collins came to Notre Dame from St. Ignatius of Chicago. During his three years of major college football, Collins never once has failed in his duty on the left flank, and deserves to be remembered with the great ends in football 
history. 
· He performs his work silently. He has mastered the fun­damentals of his position and directs his every movement for the benefit of the team. He has faced good competition for the flank berth, but always he has been found depen·dable, ever aggressive-and a man with a true fighting heart. He is as good on the offense as he is on the 9.efense, receiving passes and forming interference for the ball carriers. With exceptional speed he goes down under punts and seldom fails to get his man. This is his third year as a monogram man. 



~" . ·-·--~--=-·-.~ --.:.. .. ".­


1924 F007'BALL REVIEW Page 15 
Noble Kizer Ri~ht Guard 
Noble Kizer came to Notre Dame heralded as a great bas­ketball man, but no one ever heard of Kizer the football guard till the season of 1922 and during the two seasons that followed. · 
His height, his weight and natural aggressiveness combined with his keen mental powers were not long in reserve for bas­ketball, once Rockne had ·discovered him. He fitted into the Notre Dame mentor's picture of the ideal guard, and his 165 pounds were pronounced as ideal for the man who would play in the guard berth. Maurie Smith and Harvey Brown were his predecessors of similiar type and the pace set by these men was quickly taken up by Kizer. He teamed admirably with ·weibel and these men have been two of the greatest factors instru­mental in Notre Dame's gridiron success. Like his teammates in the line, he is not given much credit for his incomparable
I 
work, but Kizer played for the team and not his own personal
i 
fame and in the inner life of Notre Dame, he will never be 
forgotte~. 
1 
Edward Hunsinger Ri~ht End 
"All things come to him who waits", and the season of 1924 was the reward for Ed Hunsinger of Chillicothe, Ohio. Ever sin~e his freshman year in 1921, Hunsinger has had to con­tend with more experienced competition, but after graduation
1 

had taken Carberry and Mayl from the ranks, Rockne had a faithful and dependable end to call in, who displayed an inimi­i 
table fighting spirit in every game. 
As zealously did Collins guard the left flank, so Hunsinger1 stood watch over the right. Rockne did not drill his ends to turn the play in and smash interference all year merely for
! 
exercise. Experience had revealed .to him, that his team was
i 

I complete with Collins and Hunsinger, and neither wingman ! failed to produce during the long hard season of 1924. Hun­' singer's place will be another spot hard to fill as his verv de­
pendable understudy, Eaton, also graduates in June.· 
I 
I 

I I Bernard Livergood 
~ 
Fullback
i 

1 
I Bernie Livergood came unheralded and unsung from Stonington, Ill., in 1921. .He played on the freshman team and showed much promise of becoming one of the stellar ball car.; riers of future teams. I 
I Fate however intervened and the handicap of injuries which kept him on the sidelines foi· a year was further augmented
I 
by the presence of Layden and Cerney on the squad to make
I 

i the competition harder for a regular berth. However, the fate 
I that kept Livergood in the background during the past two years suddenly changed this fall and Livergood stepped out as one of the demon ball carriers of Notre Dame. His .work all season proved his worth, which hitherto was concealed by force of circumstances. His line plunging and defensive tactics provided thrill after thrill for the football world. He is one of the three fullbacks who graduate in June and leave a huge vacancy to fill next fall. · 
John ~c~anmon Ri~ht Tackle 
John McManmon, of Lowell, Massachusetts, augmented the efficiency·of the right tackle berth by his giant stature this fall. Playing his first year of varsity football, he capably filled in for Rip Miller, when the regular tackle was waiting his turn to go into action. 
McManmon has all the qualities of a tackle. His physical pr_oportions enable him to cover his .territory well and his natural aggressiveness has be_en the thorn in the side of a good 
. many opponents. His year of service with the s!tock troops was completed with great credit and the sporting world of 1925 will expect even greater things :from him. 
Thomas Hearnden Ri~ht Half-Back 


Thomas "Red" Hearndon wh9 came here from Green Bay, Wisconsin, the town that produced the inimitable Jimmy Crow­ley, was one of the new develonments in the 1924 season at Notre Dame. Hearndon and his sophomore teammates were part of the great cycle that rolls around each year; the cycle that is developed while the veterans are carrying on. 
Hearndon, give~ much pron"lise of being avaluable addition to future varsity teams. On numerous occasions he proved his worth as a ball carrier and looked good in the interference. His work on the eastern inv~sions was good enough to elicit special c<;>mmendation from Coach Rockne. 
Edward Scharer Quarterback 

l 
Eddie Scharer of Toledo, can:te to Notre· Dame from the l university of Detroit where he starred in his first year of var­
I
sity football. Scharer learned his game on the famous Waite high school (Toledo) eleven, and although he is not large in ! stature, he has a world of natural ability and a capacity to I think football. 

He alternated at quarterback this fall with "Red" Edwards . and ran his eleven shock troops with the hand of a master. Scharer is a forward passer, but he gave only a few exhibi­tions of his talent· in this department during the year just closed. He was declared out of football for the year at one 1time because of a serious injurY., but medical treatment soon had him back into the lineup. 
Clem Crowe Left End 
Clem Crowe; of Lafayette, I~d,iana, like Noble Kizer came to Notre Dame heralded as a wonder of the basketball court, but Rockne soon began to prepare his great speed and natural aggressiveness for football. 
In the season of 1923, CroweJ playing his first year of var­sity football, broke into the limelight by his vicious tacklingand fast work going down under punts. He faced competi­tion, however, frol'l} a more ~xperien~ed ·rival and during the past season has served admirably with the shock troops ·as understudy to Collins. Crowe's work in the Army and Prince­ton game was especially good and his presence will be valuable on the 1925 squad. 





• :~·--~"'lt ...:!.::... -' '-· ·---·-----.--· 
l. 
1924 FOO'IBI1LL REVIEW Page 17 



Ward Connell 
Ri~ht Half-Back 
\Vard "Doc" Connell of Beloit, has for three years. been a member of the shock troops,_ the men who go in to take the brunt of the fight and at the same time, wear down the op­position.
Connell, a product of the Notre Dame prep school, has been one of Rockne's most dependable ground-gainers, and when the season is over on New Year's pay, fandom will have several games by which to remember the crashing, tearing halfback who bowled over tacklers like so many ten pins. After the defeat at Nebraska last year, Connell exhibited some new stuff in the Butler game, playing with reckless abandon. He re­peated at Carnegie Tech where he made it a habit to score touchdowns. He continued to play great football all this Fall and will be missed when they call the roll for next year. 
William Cerney Full-Back 

Bill Cf.:rney of Chicago, who prepared at St. Ignatius with "Chuck" Collins, was the fiery spirit behind the shock troops ~ i . -. attack. Cerney who has worn the monogram for football for \. ·. three years was forced to contend with Layden and Livergood !· for the regular fullback berth. 
Cerney is a splendid type of the Notre Dame football player, a glutton for punishment and does not know the mean­ing of defeat. His defensive and offensive prowess needs little comment for the Notre Dame fan. Cerney was one of the greatest defensive fullbacks the school has ever known. His courage and driving power gave sparkle to his offense plung­ing, and by adding punting to his talents, he further augmented the versatility of the team. 
Harry O'Boyle Left Half-Back 

Harry O'Boyle of Des Moines, Iowa, proved to be the sophomore flash of the 1924 eleven. His work this fall with the. s~o~k troops is the reason so many sport followers are optimistic for next year's campaign. · 
O'Boyle is a member of the triple threat fraternity al­th?ugh he w~s not called upon to exercise many of his talents this fall.. His spee~ however cqmbined with his stocky build makes him. an elusive ball-carrier and a hard man to· bring d~wn once m the open. He has two more years of competitionWith the Gold and Blue. · 
Richard Hanousek Ri~ht Guard 
Richard Hanousek, of Antigo, Wisconsin, was one of the ~tars of. the f~·eshman team of 1923, and alternated with Kizer m the lme this year, performing his duties with the snap of 
completeness. 
Hanousek was another member of the shock troop band and with many of his team-mates who started on the freshman eleven of 1923, will form the inner workings of the team of 1925. Hanousek played at fullback in his prep school days, ~ut Rockne found better use or him as a guard, as he fitted mto the Notre Dame system of football with ease. His strengt~, his aggressiveness .{lnd naturai football ability have made him a valuable player. 


--i 
I 
Page 18 1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW 


Charles Glueckert Left Guard 
Charles Glueckert of South Bend, has served three years in the ~otre Dame line, and although his labors did not net him a letter until this year, the team was satisfied to know that he was there. He performed hj~ work in excellent style and in silence, very little credit ever coming to him for his playing. 
Glueckert's name can be inscribed on that long role of Notre Dame's athletes who went out and gave their best and took their measure of satisfaction in knowing that they were working for Notre Dame. 
Rex Enright Full-Back 
Rex Enright of Rockford, Illinois, remained out of compe­tition this year because of injuries. He will return in 1925 to complete his course in law. Enright has already served two years with the Fighting Irish and has proven himself to be a fullback of merit. His weight and speed and a large quantity of natural ability make him a player of exceptional worth. 
August Stange Lett Tackle 
August Stange was absent from the 1924 football team due to an injury which lingered with him from the season of 1923. Undergoing an operation early in the season unfitted him for active service this year, but he will be back next year for his senior year of competition. Stange was both a depend­able lineman and a punter. His we.ll proportioned build made a good vehicle for all the natural aggressiveness he possessed. 
Max Houser Left Half-Back 
Max Houser, the player who staged a brilliant comeback against Nebraska in 1923, played his first year of college foot­ball with Lafayette university. In eastern gridiron circles Houser gained a wide reputation. Since coming to Notre Dame, he has found himself in particularly fast company to which he soon adapted himself. Like so many other backs on the Notre Dame eleven, he served in shifts and served well. Houser is a passer and a punter as well_ as a ball carrier. 



1924 F007"BALL REVIEW Paqe 19 
Joe Harmon Center 

Joe Harmon of Indianap_olis, the peppery pivot man .who trained faithfully for two years on the Notre Dame football team, before he finally got his ch.ance, completes a year of gal­lant service with the Pasedena game. When Walsh was in­jured at the Army, Harmon and Maxwell took up the burden and at Princeton and Georgia Tech, played wonderful foot­ball. Harmon will be lost to the team for next year. 



~-·-.·--~..~~..•.. ;] Wilbur Eaton Ri~ht End 
Two years of hard work with the varsity squad brought .Wilbur Eaton of Omaha, Nebraska, to the ranks of the foot­ball lettermen this fall. His incomparable fighting spirit and determination to stick to it, made Eaton one of the most val­uable men on the squad. He served as understudy to liunsin­
/g~r and with Crowe, made the going around the flanlg> rather perilous for the opposition. 
John McMullen Left Tackle 

After coming from Chicago, where he made a reputation in high school football, John McMullen was kept from the front ranks only by the force of more experienced material be­fore him. His hard work and determination to carry out the instructions of his coach won for him a place in the shock troops division and McMullen will be welcomed back for next year's campaign. 
John Roach Half.. Back 
Certain sport critics were won·t to ask, "Where does Rockne get such material," as they watched John Roach of Appleton, Wisconsin reel off a couple of 35..;yard runs and incidently score a to~chdown. After hobnobbing with the "Four Horse­men" for a season, Roach came out this year and registered some sterling work, indicating that what he will do next year will have no restrictions. 




-_ --·-·-···-·--1. ----·.:.---~~-····-··· ·-­
J 
'i 
1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW
Page 20 

Joseph Maxwell Center 
One of the most promising gridders to come to light during the season just closed was Joe Maxwell of Philadelphia. Maxwell learned his football under Stan Cofall, former Notre Dame star, and in his first year of· varsity competition at Notre Dame, played a large part in the season's triumphs. Maxwell is pos­sessed of a· world of natural ability and foot­ball sense and is also an excellent snapper­back. Maxwell has two more years with the varsity. _ 
Herb Eggert Right Guard 
Herb Eggert is a Chicago boy who is just completing his se_cond year of service with the RockmEm. Eggert was listed with the shock troops this fall, and served· with distinction when called upon to play. During the practice drills· this fall, he showed much promise and.· Rockne drilled hip1 constantly until he was able to hold down the guard berth in major games. He will be back with the squad next fall. 
Vincent Harrington Right .·Guard . 
Vincent Harri~gton of Souix City, Iowa, is the gridder, press correspondents like to tell about; the man who makes every trip and until . the 1924 season, Jtad played only thirty seconds in a major game. Harrington however was made of the stuff that Rockne knew would hold up under terrific punishment and when he was called upon to serve, he . fulfilled his assign­ment with everything he had. Harrington will be lost to the squad at graduation. 
Frank Reese Quarterback After a career of ups and downs, during which time frequent injuries greatly handi­capped him, Fra11k Reese, of Robinson, Illinois, · completes his atl_lletic career with the nation­al football cl)ampions. It has not been his for­tune to be the inspiration of football poets, nor direct a great team to sensational vic-· tory, but Reese 11as played his part and played it well. Frank }}as generously· given of his ability to assist in his team's great triumphs. 
Gene Edwards Quarterback Gene "Red" Edwards, of Weston, W. Va., former Kiski star and the quarterback find of the 1924 season is undoubtedly slated to be the Notre Dame Napoleon .of the next two years. The slimly built pilot is the sphinx of the eleven, but 'his silence portends more than a lack of noise. His work during the past season . has been excellent. He has two more years of competition. 
Joseph Boland Left Tackle Joe Boland is also from Philadelphia, and like Maxwell he played football under the tutelage of Cofall. Boland's weight and fight­ing qualities mar;Ie him a valuable gridder in the shock troop's brigade. Time after time the opposition found it tough going when they tried to send plays through Boland. He has two more years of varsity competition. 
Gerald Miller Right Halfback Gerry Miller, ~ brother to Don Miller, imi­. tated his. brothers before him, giving his best for Notre Dame. Gerry, however, lacks the weight for stardom. Gerry is a Notre Dame football man, playing the game hard and clean. 
.Joe Rigali Right_End .Joe Rigaii ·is another· Chicago product who came to Notre Dame intent upon trying out for backfield berth. Rockne, b.u.wever, made a wi'ngman of him and sent him into the firing line several times during the past season. Ri­gali responded with excellent work. He is not large in stature but he is a fighter and knows the game. 
John Wallace Right Tackle . John Wallace of Gary, Indiana, another of Rockne's shock troops, will be back with the squad again next year, after having served ·two years in the line. Wallace like many of the other gridders was forced to compete with players of more experience. His football abili­ties have not been wasted during his days of apprenticeship and his presence on the 1925 squad will be welcome. 

192.4 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 2.1 
~ 
i I 
I I 
I I 
I 
1 

I 
G.eor~e Gipp
I 

4 'The wind bites sharply now the chalk-lined grass, I I But, hid blj night I see a phantom pass From phantom hands, that we once, dearltj, knew,
i 

·Caught btj still dimmer hands, known, too, l Plavedfor.Our Ladlj, as in life thetj plaved, And she applauds, and the frail phantoms fade. 
Gerald Holland 
: [ ·"

::-.-. ~-·~ ....... -----___,._ ~-. l . -·-·· .:_. __ _.: -·-"'··------_: # 
"I 

YOUR TEAM 
Harrlj A. McGuire 
What is the team to you? 
Is it somethin~ to bet on? You'll bet upon.the time 1t takes a four-le~~ed brute to paw.around a track! · . 
Is it somethin~ to boast of at home? That means nothin~ ­you'll boast about the make of car your father's money bou~ht! 
Is it a thin~ to sin~ a,.bout over the cups? No honor there­you'll sin~ about a~~ravatin' papa and that red-headed ~al five minutes l~ed · 
Is it somethin~ ~ood .to look at? So is Valentino if his make,up is ~ood! 
Is it somethin~ that affords you the opportunity for paradin~ your knowled~e of football technique? Exams offer a similar oppor, tunity, yet you dislike them, because they call your bluff! 
Is it somethin~ to criticize? You'll spend thirty minutes a day criticizin~ you_r.janitor! · · . 
Does it mean all ofthese thin~s to you? Let it mean all of them, and you have as yet revealed no viewpoint that sheds credit upon you. · 
For to Notre Dame men their team is somethin~ vital. It stands in their estimation as the in~arnation of the ~lor~es and. the trials, the final triumphs and the inevitable defeats of their school. It apotheosizes in their mi_nds the ideals of Notre Dame -as it crouches there on the·field it is to them the spirit of Notre Dame itself, hoary with years but youn~, defeated but never beaten; viCtor­ious but never victor~ stron~ with the stren~th of war but delicate as a flower ·and ~entle as a ~irl. They see in that mi~hty spirit the hands that have built the .walls. of Notre Dame, the minds that have slaved upon its problems, the lips that have prayed for the school andtfor them. In that spirit they find the souls· of the saints who have drud~ed that they mi~ht live life to the full, and the souls of lon~-for~otten men who .fou~ht ori the field in blood ·that Notre Dame mi~ht have a ~ood tradition. · And they find in that spirit a coura~e and self-sacrifice,· a love of ~ood and scorn for evil that God and His human Mother lend·to the armies ofNotre Dame. 
-That's what their team means to Notre Dame men! 

~.,-.. ____ ;t: __ 
--~------. -... -~·-.:...-------~ -· . 
1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW Paqe 23 _ 


.......,, 
Page 24 1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW 


Notre Dame 40 Lombard 0 
October 4 was a typical mid-summer day, and too warm for football. Not a 
breath of air was stirring that afternoon when Notre Dame's squad of seventy-seven 
warriors trotted onto Cartier Field for the first game of the season. Lombard ap­
peared shortly thereafter, and an interested football world waited to learn whether 
there was truth in the reports that the 192•1 Notre Dame machine was bigger and 
better than ever. Lombard students were on hand, three hundred strong, and Notre 
Dame's cohorts thronged the cast stands. The whistle blew and the season had 
officially begun. 
As usual, "Rock" started his "shock troops," who held Lombard even· for the first ten minutes. In the middle of the opening quarter a signal was given, and the entire first team pranced out to relieve the substitutes. Thenceforth the game was .just a question of how well the sturdy Lombard defense could stop the charges of the Irish backs. The Four Horsemen were the fleet backs of yore, and O'Boyle and Connell typified the capability of the shock troops by dashes of 50 and 57 yards respectively. The losers were sadly handicapped by the serious injury of Cap~. Lamb, their brilliant little quarterback, who had done much to prevent a larger 
score. 
This game proved Notre Dame's remarkable reserve strength and a toll of six 
touchdowns gave rough evidences of the driving attack that later foes were to expect. 
The Lombard team provided far sturdier opposition than the score would seem 
to indicate. Captain Lamb of Lombard and his teammates presented a well drilled 
and flashy organization, but they were encountering the country's greatest and were 
unequal to the task of stopping the team which was later to conquer the football 
world. 


~-·------·~-·-----------· =. 
1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW Paqe 25 

"Notre Dam~ too Husky; Lombard Loses by 40 to 0" 
Chicago Sunday Tribune. 

SOUTH BEND, Ind., Oct. 4.-(Special.)­
Lombard and Notre Dame played four quarters 
of listless football here today in the opening 
game of the 1~24 season, Notre Dame winning, 
40 to 0. Sensational runs ranging from 25 to 
65 yards added ~ dash of color to the contest 
at various stages and were responsible for the 
majority of Notre Dame's points. 
· Lamb, captain a11d star quarterback for . Lombard, was c~rried from the field early in the second perioq with a fractured collar bone, sustained when he was tackled in open field by Bella, Notre Dame end. Lamb's removal from 
the game had . a notice­
able effect on the Lorn-

bards' attack and the visit­ors were practically help­less after his injury. 
Don Miller scored twice for Notre Dame at the out­set of the second quarter on end runs. Connell un­corked a 60 yard run for a touchdown in the third, and O'Boyle, a sophomore half, broke away for a pair of 50 yard sprints in t h e concluding period. Lombard outplayed t h e second team R o c k n e started and began early in the contest to open up1 their aerial game. Many passes . were completed,·1 but none of them were I good for more than 3 yards.and a few were. com­
I 

I pleted for losses. 
I 

Joe· Williams relates: 


' 
Mr. Rockne may not be the greatest tutor of pigs-I kin logic in the tax-ridden universe, but if he isn't sapphires Il).ake undesirable jewelry· andl snowdrifts are fille things to use for fuel. 
1 
Mr. Rockne is the ·kind of coach who can take eleven unfilled uniforms, in fairly present­able condition, ap.d make Walt~r Camp break 
down and sob, "Enough, Enough!" MoraCvictories are something which are not
I 

4 tolerated in the Rockne scheme. The Fight­
ing Irish, including the Stuhldrehers, theI Bachs, and the Hunsingers, are sent out to I return with ·their head-guards or in them.I· ' This is the era of the electric light, yet a 
I 
lot of Rockne's ri.vals are still reading the rules ~nder the glare ~f a kerosene lamp. 
' "Bugs" Baer said after the Easter invasions: The Notre Dame football army has been go­ing through· the East like a worm through a tunnel. This is probably the toughest collec­I tion of militia gathered together since those Minute Boys drilled up around Lexington. Yet Notre Dame is not happy. They cleaned 
up the East last year and then went to Nebras­ka, where men are men. The Cornhuskers were supposed to be a lot of stump pullers and crop gatherers who were pretty good in a ten­acre lot if you let them pick their favorite grip. 
The big boys fro!Jl the corn belt bobbed their whiskers, took a reef in "their suspenders and bounced Notre Dame over the terrain. It was a tough finish to a beutiful season. 
Notre Dame is chewing up the East again this year. They cashed a big check in West. Point, and also sold Princeton a bill of goods. But they still have to play Nebraska. 
ON THE SPORT TRAIL (By Fred J. Bendel.) Notre Dame men may 
come and Notre Dame men may go and Garbisch of Army may play forever, but Notre Dame men of all time will recall with the same thrill of pride and 
·joy that Yale recall, Ted Coy, Harvard members Brickley and Mahon and Princeton eulogizes Poe­the name of Ad.am Walsh, captain and star center of the Notr~ Dame football squad. · 
Notre Dame men will thrill with pride when they remember how this same Walsh outplayed Garbisch hailed by many as an All­American · center,· again yesterday, just as the same Walsh did ·a year ago. 
The Army massed its 
bulky power at center or near the middle of the line and Walsh was the man who stopped t.he charge many and many times. The Notre ·Dame men had the ball and Walsh was the man who gave superb interfer­ence. The Army launched a forward pass in the closing moments of the game and· it was the punch drunk Walsh who outguessed the Army quarterback and .was right at the spot at· which the pass was aimed. 
It was Walsh who took two men. out in in­terference. as prettily timed as a . "military maneuver, allowing Crowley to ·flash by·the last outposts of the Army defense in his sensational sprint for nearly half the length of the field. 
Twice .the tangled masses of humanity on the gridiron at the Polo Grounds was torn apart to reveal Walsh · to all appearances stretched o_ut cold on the ground. But. each 
·time he was lifted to his· feet and like a terrier he shook off the ·stunning effect of the pound­ing he was receiving. It was a superb Notre Dame team that won 
· and a great Army team that lost. 

~~:... • • '~ -" • ' • -~ • • -~ • c. • • -~ ' • ~. -• 

Page 26 ·1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
Notre Dame 34 Wabash 0 
\Varming to the task of going through the hard season before them, the battling Irish outfit ran rough-shod over the "Little Giants" of \Vabash by .a 34-0 score. Some fifteen thousand zealots saw "Rock's" lads rounding into the great grid ma­chine that was to crush down teams, representing every section of the country~ The crowd also saw the b~ckfield qu.artet, which was to be heralded as one of the greatest 1 of all time, run wild over the helpless though struggling Wabash men. 
I 
It wa sthis game which aided Coach Rockne to iron out the kinks in prepara­
"' 
tion for the struggle witl~ the Army on the following Saturday. It was this game also which gave Rockne an idea of the power which lay in his reserve teams. I 
Occasional flashes of the brilliant performances which were to follow, were 
I 
present in ~he dashes of Jimmie Crowley, Elmer Layden and others. That perfect organization and morale was noticeable in the "Wonder Team"; perfections were to I bring it through one of the most brilliant saesons ever enjoyed by any_grid outfit. 
I 
The ·vVabash game was the initial appearance of one of the greatest little gen­erals of the year, Harry Stuhldreher, who was _to lead his famous backfield mates 
1 
through one of the most glorious seasons ever enjoyed by a Notre Dame team~ And 
I
he was not long in displaying his marvelous abilities, which were to earn for him the the appellation "Napoleon of the Gridiron."· 
i
I 
The \Vabash victory created a feeling of optimism on the Notre Dame campus. This optimism, well-seasoned with "Rock's" pessimistic "show me" attitude, fur­! 
i 
nished a perfect atmosphere for tllC tea~'s battle with the Army tl~e following Satur­
\
day afternoon. · 
I 
I 
I I 
) 
....I 
l 
I 
l 
I 
I 
I 
I 
l 
I 
I I· 
I 
I 
I 
I 



1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 27 


''Notre Dame is Monarch of All American Grid'' 
By DAvis J. WALSH, Cleveland News. 

Remove the tin foil and tissue paper wrap­From Mr. Batchelor's Article in the ping, waft a handful of dust over the collection 
"Detroit Saturday Night."

and present the corsage of American beauties 
to Notre Dame university. For the first time 
No printed word can begin to convey an idea

these many years, we have an unchallenged · national champion of collegiate football and of the speed, the precision and the power of Notre Dame is it. One can no more go behind this (Notre Da111e~s backfield. Imagine two the records than one can go behind the nape 
Granges, a Friedman and Lidberg placed onof his neck, and the .records show the Irish to the same team. Imagine them .trained to­be the only undefeated and untied football 

team of any conseguence between the two gether for three y~ars so that they could go 
oceans. through their plays in the dark, standing on 
Darmouth has as sound a record as any their heads, or · left-handed. Imagine them 
team in eastern football. drilled daily by a football 
Yet Dartmouth was tied by 
genius whose plays would Yale, which in turn was 
make crossword puzzlestied by West Point, which 
s e e m childishly' simple.lost to Notre Dame. Yale, 
Then imagine them gearedanother unbeaten eastern 
up to the speed shown by team, is eliminated from 
the participants in a slap­national consideration by stick movie comedy, and the same equation. 

you will have some idea Pennsylvania's r e c o r d 
of "The ·Four Horsemen." alike is untarnished by de­
It is not only the greatest feat. But Penn was tied 
backfield of today, but by Penn State, which was 
probably. the greatest that beaten by Georgia Tech, 
the modern game ·of foot­which lost to Notre . Dame. 
ball has produced." So much for the east. 
It is a question whether The middlewest has Chi­
four other men could be cago as champion of its 
picked from the entire Big· Ten conference, but 
country and drilled to the Stagg entry lost its 
·such. efficiency in .a single opening game to Missouri 
season. Certainly if the and was tied by Ohio State 
All-American "team ever and Wisconsin, which lost 
existed for playing pur­to Notre Dame. 
poses instead of for argu­And what of Missouri? 
ment among the fans it .It was beaten by Nebraska, 
would get much better re­which disposed of Kansas 
.sults from this perfect-fit­before coming to South 
ting smooth-working com­Bend to lose to Notre bination of Rockne's than Dame. That would seem to eliminate the from any quartet that 'Valter Camp will pick. Missouri valley ~onference in toto, as far as These ~ay not be the four best backs in the Notr~ Dame is Goncerned. country individually, but collectively the yare 
in a class by themselves. Notre Dame is

The southern c_hampion is Centre college, be­
doubly proud of them, too, because they arecause of its victory over Alabama and Georgia. 

"home grown." 'rhe South Bend institutionBut the Colonels finished second to West Vir­does not seem to be able to offer the induce­ginia, which lost to Pittsburgh, which lost. to ments to great stars of the preparory schoolCarnegie Tech, which lost to Notre Dame. 

ranks that some of the other colleges do andThis far,· the cycle of elimination is perfect. 

she doesn't get many of them. So Rockne hasIt leads to South Bend, Ind. for its climax in 

to "raise them from pups."

every case. The only break in the continuity is found · on the far coast,· which has had no contest to 
GREATEST MODERN BACKFIELD

date with football· as played in the middle west 
Perry Lewis, Phila.delphia ·Inquirer.

and south. The champions_hip team of the coast confer­Here are four men who function together ence is Leland Stanford. It might be · the like a piece ·of well-oiled machinery. Their 
greatest team in the world, at that, but your team \vork is superb. Their individual bril­supply of rhetoric fails before you can con­liance dazzling. There isn't a department of 
vince a Californian that this is fact~ not fancy. backfield play at which they do not excel, and California. and Stanford played a 20 to 20 tie working behind a line· which knows its business,
in their firial game, so that Stanford's title is by they are omnipotent. It is a wondrous football no means conclusive. machine which Rockne has c~·eated. 


: i -· .~ 
•11:·'·
,._ ·. 
r_ .: ­
Page 28 1924 FOO?:BA~REVIEW 
Notre Dame 13 Army 7 
Again the "Fighting Irish" swept out of the Vvest to meet their traditional foe 
of the Plains. ·But this time the scene of the battle was set not on the majestic "Storm King" but down at "Coogan's Bluff," before sixty thousand frenzied rooters. 
The first quarter consisted mostly of an even punting duel between Wood of the Army and Elmer Layden who had replaced Cerney at full-back. In the second quarter the sixty thousand spectators were brought to their feet by the consistent attack of the Rockmen. . Getting possession of the baij. on their fifteen yard line," Stuhldrchcr, Crowley, :Miller and Layden showed that they warranted all the praise and admiration heaped upon them. Jimmie rounded the end for twenty yards; then Don cut loose with eleven more. Harry shot a pass to Crowley which. ~ctted twelve yards. And while Grantland Rice, perched in the press boxes, was having the great idea of the "Four Horsemen", Stuhldreher, Layden, Crowley and :Miller did every­thing a backfield could possibly do, and did it perfectly. Laygen went over for the first touchdown and the quarter en.ded with the score: Notrc Dame 6; Army 0. 
In the third quarter, Famine, Pestilence, Destruction and Death, or rather, Stuhldrchcr, Layden, Crowley and :Miller, again fell upon the eleven Army men­and Crowley went over for another touch-down. The period ended: Notre Dame 13; 

:,'1 I' Army 0. 
During the fourth quarter, .\Vilson of the Army got away for a 45 yard run· but the Army attacy promptly fizzled. Wood punted to Notre Dame's ten yard line. Layden punted out· of danger but the Irish were penalized fifteen yards. A clever bit. of strategy by the Army enabled Harding, the Cadet quaterback, to cross· the Notre Dame goal. The gam~ ended with the score: Notre Dame 13; Army 7. 


The 1924 Army team is worthy of the greatest praise..·"Fighting and danger­ous to the very end," our own heroes said. 
j 
l I. 
I
;· I I
• 
! l 
I 
I 
I I 
I 
I 
!'I
.I i 

,I 


1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 29 
"Notre Dame Eleven Defeats Army" 
New Y orlc Times. 

Moving with speed, power and precision, Knute .Rockne's Notre Dame 'football machine, 1924 model, defeated the Army, 13 to 7, be­fore 60,000 at t]:le Polo Grounds yesterday. The Hoosiers scored a. touchdown in the sec­ond period and another in the third, and the Army's only rebuttal was a touchdown shortly after the fourth yeriod had begun. But at that late hour the soldiers were tired and battered, and the machine went on to \vin. 
West Point pluck against Notre Dame's rna­orite weapon sheathed in the scabbard. Not more than a half dozen times during the game did he strike \vith his forward pass attack. In­stead, he met the soldiers on their own ground -the level terra firma. With a relentless drive he attacked the wings, the tackles and the cen­ter of the Army's line. The cadets, prepared for a stiff aerial bombardment, were unpre­pared for this offensive, and it was npt until the fourth period that they learned the trick 
of stopping the t\visting, elusive, smashing at­

chine was a one-sided proposition, and it was · tack put on by one of the best backfields in the a clean-cut victory. An epic might be written country. For three periods Miller, Crowley,about the Army's brave Layden and Stuhldreher stand and gallant counter-.--~---------...;..._-----. . ripped and t o r e an d 

attack in the final-qua~ter; but after all it was Notre 
(_Dame which had the speed, 
apt. AdtH\"\Wols·h cov.ldn•t 

the deception, the decisive 
h~"e. be.e.n K~ rt do~'"' in punch and, to boot, the. 
1:. he. Arm'\ ~a 11\e e"'e"' if he coaching genius of Knute 
had be e."' c.\-!. a it\ e d o 

Rockne. _ · If an epic could be writ­ten about the Army, there was also material for sev­eral poems in the swift, dashing play of the men from I n d i a n a . Notre Dame's backfield attack had some of the poetry of motion about it. Launched from well-concealed and deceptive positions, i t · swept the · Army flanks, darted outside· and inside the tackles and tore jagged holes in the line. When 
Miller, Crowley and Stuhl­dreher took the ball and started around the end, they ran like men inspired. 
On a reduced scale the contest was· another Army-Navy game. Next to the crowd that·· attended last year's service classic at the Polo Grounds, the throng was the 
biggest in New York football history. Nearly 
every seat· was filled. 
It was also one of the most notable of grid­iron, gatherings. In addition to Secretary of War Weeks, Major Gen. Robert Lee Bullard and other distinguished army officers, Dr. Hugo Eckener, commander of the ZR-3, watched· what was probably his first American football game. -In the company of. Secretary \Veeks, 
-the commander of the history-making ze-ppelin walked twice around the field in the -third and fourth period. · 
There were hearty cheers for Secretary Weeks and thousands stood and craned their necks, but ·few recognized the megium-built man-in a quiet suit of dark blue, his blond head bared, who walked \vith the Secretary. 
If Dr. Eckener came to see Notre Dame win 
swooped, and when the cadets finally checked the grinding machine it was too late. 
* * * * 
It :was a game designed to please the fancy of every sort of football fol­lower. For the students of the gridiron there was a rare display of football de­ception and speed in Notre Dame's \Veil-balanced at­tack; for · the casual fol­lower there was an eye­filling sight in the fleet dashes of Crowley and Mil­ler and Harry Wilson around the far-flung flanks. And for the lover of spec­tacles there was -a touch of life and color in the .vastness of the crowd, in the· picture of the flag­draped horseshoe and in the Cadet Corps maneu­
vers before the game. 
HAIL TO ROCKNE A rousing reception is scheduled for Coach 
K. K. Rockne and his conquerors of the Army mule when the victory-flushed Irish footballers climb off .the rattler at the New York Central station Sunday afternoon at 5:22 o'clock. 
The entire Notre Dame student body, headed by the univel;'sity band, will_ -be on· hand to ex­tend·. the glad hand_to .the ·returning heroes and to parade ·them through the center of town. Cheer Leader Eddie Luther, who accompanied the team to New York and who led the Notre Dame cheering_ section at the Polo ·grounds 
yesterday, will direct the parade and lead the student body in cheers for the victorious Gold and Blue. 
. Notre Dame alumni in New York city will fete the triumphant Irish laddybucks to-night,
but it is expected that Rockne and his preteges
\vill depart from Gotham early .Sunday morn-

through the air, Ire 'was ·disappointed.--So~·\vere ----ing. ··The· .exact ·tinie of' their iu·rival -has not 60,000 others, for. Coach :Rockne _kept his~ fav-be~n-ascertained. ___ · 
.·. '~. ~ . -·. .-... 
Page 30 1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
Notre Dame 12 Princeton ~ 0 
To twist the Tiger's tail is a coveted privilege among the major football teams. of the country, especially outside of the New England states. The 12-0 score did not represent the respective margin of ability. Crowley was the star of the game, running wild for two touchdowns and gaining 250 yards during the afternoon. It was a great game. Notre Dame seemed to be able to gain at will and for a second time the Fighting Irish trimmed Princeton. The Tiger was never once within 30 yards of the Blue and Gold goal line. 
The Princeton victory gave Notre Dame the second "double win" in the East; the publicity from it is still running the gamut among Eastern sports writers. The Tiger always furnishes strong, colorful opposition. 
October 25 was a great day for the Irish. They were truly "Rockets"; they sailed through the air for passes, sped with sho,vers of sparks along the Princeton turf, leaving behind them a trail of brilliant fire· and smoke. The Four Horsemen again won the name given to them by Grantland Rice the Saturday previous. 
There were many stars in the Princeton game who did not gallop but did every­
thing else. \Veibel and Kizer demonstrated that it was not all backfield that did the 
work. And the slashing ;work of Bach and Rip :Miller did not go un~oticed. It '\vas 
C~liefly due to their efficient line-work that Crowley was able to slip through the slits . in the rampart for the large gains. A crowd of 45,000 ·crowded Palmer stadium at Princeton to see the "comet" flash. The Irish crashed for twenty,-three first downs to four for the Tiger's. 

1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW Paqe 81 
"Great Nassau Tiger Snared" 
By DAVIS J. \VALSH, New Yorlc Times.. 

PRINCETON, N. J., .Oct. 25.-The p.en, they say, is mightier than the sword and this afternoon Notre Dame proved that the rapier has it all over the blunderbus when it defeated Princeton for the secondtime in as many years. The score was only 12 to 0, but it did not rep­resent the respective abilities of these two football teams a_ny more than arsenic repre­sents a toothsome dish. 
Princeton, in the first place, had no Crow­ley. He was to Notre Dame what the point is to the rapier and his lightning thrusts off tackle simply knifed the Princeton defense in­to smithers. 
Crowley made the two ried the ball l}.lmost the length of the field on no less than four occasions. 
Two of them resulted in touchdowns, a third was ruled out by a penalty and Crowley's fum­ble on the nine-yard line prevented a fourth. 
It was a very natty. exhibition for a team that was outweighed about 20 pounds to the individual man, that going for the defense as well as the attack. 
Incidentally, the defense was tested even though. Princeton didn't theaten but merely threatened to threaten. 
(Special Dispatch to The World). 

official touchdowns, and 
PRINCETON, Oct. 25­added a n o t h e r which 
Wow, wow, wow, wow! b e c a m e strictly u n ­
Better move ·along
Col\i n s ~ r.J Hun ~ in 9e~ 1: rj to

official, not to say out of 
When you hear the Tigerorder, when a Notre Dame 
dote out how Pr-incei"o"' lV\<:!d~ 

sing man was detected holding. 
-thr-ee 't~'r~S ~n·ouhd -\h_e. endso His jungle song.In all, Crowley pro9ably 
The words above, boom-gained 250 yards as a per­

ing from the Princetonsonal contribution to the 


stands at Palmer Stadium cause. Many a Tiger claw today, reached the ears of was laid upon him as he Knute Rockne's skyrocketshifted outside tackle for backs, Crowley, Miller and runs ranging from five to Layden.

35 yards but a Tiger claw "Great stuff," said they,may scratch but it never individually and collective­was known for its ability ly, "left's go;" and move ... to retain its hold on a two along they did, twistingi legged, sprinting eel that turning, breaking out of
! 

seemed to be afflicted with 
the grasps of Princetonthe buck jumps. 

tacklers time and again, to Certainly no single claw 
beat the Tigers 12 to 0 and was able to stop Crowley 
shatter the Tigers' dream today for .any appreciable 
of revenge for l~~t year's part of a tenth of a second. 
25 to 2 defeat. Princeton was lucky that

He was at once the the score was not t\vice as power, the speed, the grace much. · 
! ·and the agility of the en-· .i tire Notre Dame attack. Layden kicked in' with many ·a short gain through the line, occasion­
1 ally Don Miller broke loose around the end and I every so often .Stuhldreher wafted a forward I pass into the arms of a Notre Dame receiver, but on the wh9le-it was Crowley and no other who beat Princet.on today.
~ 

i It was he who sent even the Princeton sec­tion of the 40,000 crowd wending its dazed 
I 
I way back into town, muttering and shaking its befuddled head, but ready to grarit that it had witnessed a master performance· by a ·master workman. As for their own team, little could 
be said beyond the fact that it went down fight­ing. But a blunderbus is hardly to be classed as a modern \Ve.apon. Princeton was anything but modern today. It had no real running at­tack or else it was that Notre Dame's defense was too good. In any case it is a matter of record that Princeton never once advanced within the 30-yard line while ~otre J?ame car­. This ·was. no sluggish,
poorly eqmpped Navy team that. the· jungle 
c~ts we~e up ag?inst, .~ut a first class, splen­
didly drilled and conditioned aggregation with 
a consistent running attack"built on speed and 
deception carried out by a quartet of chain­
lightning backs who ~ould not be stopped. 
~rinceton had no chance to pull any psycho­
logical stuff, for Notre Dame refused to err .and. the Tigers lacked the continuity of offense to put her in a p9sition to strike with the pass­
ing gam_e which went so well against the Navy. 
Three first downs by rushing was all she could earn today while her opponents were pil­ing up 14. · 
Rockne started a complete substitute line­up to save his battered regulars as much as possible. The s~bs held Princeton even for a period, and then came the regulars. The pres­sure was applied at once. 

Page 8.2 19.24 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
============================================================ 
Notre Dame 84 Georgia Tech 8 
The "Golden Tornado" of Georgia Tech bowed to Notre Dame before one of . the largest and most colorful Homecoming crowds ever to witness a struggle on. Car-: tier Field. The "Wonder Team", fresh from its Eastern triumphs, ran. wild ·over the Georgia Tech team for a 3<1-3 win. 
The mighty vVycoff and his mates fouglit as do always these valiants from the south, but when the great backfiel~ swung into action, even without the generalship <>f Harry Stuldreher who was injured in the Princeton game, the Yellow Jackets were buried in an avalanche of scores.. Crowley, l\Iiller and Layden, collectively, played one of the best games of the season. · First one, then the other and steadily, brilliantly, the ball was advanced down the ·field to the Tech goal. 
Georgia Tech struggled desperately ti1at afternoon to dim Rockne's hopes, and 
·never once gave up their hopeless task. Even in the final seconds of play 'Vycoff· made a beautiful effort only to have a hurtling blue form end it as quickly as it had begun. A conquering Notre Dame teall} was playing before a Homecoming crowd, .a crowd typifying the magnificent-spirit which was carrying the team onward to. an undefeated season. · · 
It was another sectional triumph for the Rockmen; another victory, which made possible for the sport scribes the later choice of National Champions. 
In this victory, the line performed brilliantly, the work of Rip Miller, 'Veibel .a.nd Walsh being espeCially good. The "shock troops," which carried a great part of ±he burden of the game, played well_, with Roach, Eaton and Livergood meriting ·especial·praise. 

! ·Notre Dame plays no better sports_men than the .men from Georgia Tech, and 
!" 
Jooks forward to welcoming to Cartier Field many times in the future, the· "Southern ·Gentlemen." · 
·,.. 

·~ 
J. 
Three Geor2ia Tech Men Stop Don Miller. Note the Flying Tackle. 


' 
. '.  
. ·.: ..  




1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 83 

"Notre .Dame is 84-S Victor Over Golden Tornado" 
Chicago Sunda.11 Tribune. · 

.SOUTH. BEND, Ind., Nov. 1.-Sensational runs by Douglas Wycoff of Georgia Tech, full back, and Notre Dame's squad of back field stars featured Notre Dame's 34 to 3 victory over the southerners in the annual homecoming game here today. Approximately 17,000 per­
. sons sa\v the Irish machine in its first home ap­pearance since its triumphant conquest in the east. · 
Georgia Tech took advantage of. the Notre 
· Dame seconds early in the first period, and Wy­coff promptly ran through the bewildered Rock­men for 40 yards, ·placing the ball on Notre · Dame's. 35 yard line. A se1·ies of line bucks netted 
a few .yards, .and on the crucial third · down Will­iams· place-kicked 42 yards for his. team's 3 · points. 
Tech threatened again in the :closing minutes of the game when .Barron fumbled Reese's ·punt in midfield and Wycoff re­covered, running to Notre Dame's 1 yard line before being overtaken by Cough­lin, a substitute halfback.. Time was called before Tech could line up for the next · play. Notre Dame had trouble getting started against: the dogged defense of the southerners in· the first quarter. Wycoff led the· Tech offense in a spir­ited attack and pushed the seconds .back down the eral times during the third and fourth periods Notre Dame marched down within ·striking dis­tance of Tech's goal only to have the South­erners brace and hold for downs. ·wycoff led his team in every play, being the king-pin on both offense and defense. 
Notre Dame played the entire game without the services of Stuhldreher, quarterback ex­traordinary, who was injured at Princeton -last week. Edwards and Scharer, both playing their first season of varsity football, gave plausible accounts of themselves in the absence of Stuhldreher. 
Edwards p 1a y e d the 

greatest part of .the game with the varsity outfit, while Scharer guided the seconds in their campaign·. 
. It was a great day for substitutes. Roach an d Connell, two half iJacks with a reputation f o r speed, cut out a number of nice gains,· affording a series of spectacular runs to the afternoon's enter­tainment. Connell played the great part of the game and was one of the most consistent ground gainers used by Rockne. 
Tech appeared weak in the right side of 'their line all during the· third and fourth periods, Livergood assaulting this sector with amazing results throughout the half. Livergood wasfield .time and time again. 


the one man who gained on
Quoyte:tte.

At the start of the sec-· 
every: play against the 

ond period Rockne sent his 
Southerner's defense. His 

first string into the game, pressing the injured Adam Walsh into service in an· attempt to stop the rushes of Wycoff and his teammates. 
rh.e varsity offense directed by Edwards soon got under way and _started one of its famous marches down the gridiron. Don Mil­ler, made 35 yards around left end; Crowley hit right tackle for 16, and Cerney made 7· through the center. Tech brace.d when Notre Dame had pushed it into the shadow of ·its own goal posts and with fourth down on Tech's 11 yard ·line; Crowley passed to Don Miller behind the goal line fo1; Notre Dame's first score. 
A · similai· .play in the fourth quarter with Scharer passing to Roach was good for a simi­lar gain :and ·a touchdown. Roach made one of Notre Dame's touchdowns in the second quarter on a line buck from. the 3-yard. line after ·he had ·circled the visitors' left end for 45 yards: · 
Tech played a hard game of football show­ing. a gri~ determination in the pinches. Sev­
· runs of 10 and 20 yardsfigured prominently in the scoring of the last two touchdowns. 
Ford C. Frick Says: Sing a song of Notre Dame · Shout their praises wide, ' Tell of Crowley' sturdy might
Sing of Layden's stride.. · ' 
Spread the news of Miller's speedSpeak of Walsh's game, ' Fighters of the bulldog breed~ Her~'s to Noti·e Dame! 
But-.. · When you've finis_hed all· thut, ladies and 
gentlemen; when you have lauded the. prowess of Layden and Crowley and Miller· when you've told of the wizardry of Rockne a~d sung the laudations of a line that· wouldn't be 
turned.. . When you've done all that, then it's time to rise to your f~et, every durn one of you and do.ff. your hats and spend one silent mom~nt in . tribute to the greatest of them all r . That's little, tow-headed Harry Stuhldreher! 


···;,;-:.-. 

-~------------­
-----------~~----=---;_-=~:__: ·::.. -------=----------··-··-~..:..___:._ ­

THE LARGEST CROWD EVER PACKED INTO CARTIER FIELD, STANDING WHILE THE NOTRE DAME BAND PLAYS ·THE VICTORY MARCH BETWEEN THE HALVES AT THE NEBRASKA GAME. 
1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 35 
Notre Dame's First Football Team 
In ·1887 


Left to right, bottom row-Harry :M. Jewett, right halfback; J. E. Cusack, quarterback; Henry B. Luhn, left halfback; Ed Prudhomme, fullback: Second row-J. L. Hepburn, right end; George Houck, right tackle; E. A. Sawkins, right guard:. Frank Fehr, center; Pat Nelson, left tackle: Gene Melady, left guard; Frank Springer, left end. 
In 1924 


Left to right: Joseph Hepburn, of Detroit; Frank Hagenbarth, of Salt Lake City; Dr. Henry B. Luhn, Spokane, Wash.; Col. Wm. Luhri, · Omaha, Nebr.; Edward Prudhomme, Bermuda, La.; George Houck, Portland, Oregon; Patrick Nelson, Dubuque, Iowa; Wm. P. McPhee, Denver; Frank Fehr, Louisville; Eugeno Melady, Jr., and Eugene 1\lelady, Sr., Omaha. The other members of the team were unable 
· to attend the celebration. 

.-....-•..-.•:--··· ... -.~--~ 
Page S6 1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

Notre Dame 88 Wisconsin 8 
Camp Randall Stadium presented a colorful spectacle that day of November 8, when forty-thousand persons gathered to see Rockne's men make their 1924 debut against a Big Ten team. This game was the attraction for Notre Dame's annual student trip so that vVisconsin' s famous Cardinal cheering section was well matched by the large Gold and Blue· array in the opposite stands. The crack bands of Notre Dame and 'Visconsin marched onto the field and combined in alternate renditions of "On 'Visconsin" and the "Victory :March". Then the teams trotted out, ·and the demonstration that followed will not soon be forgotten by anyone who was at _Camp Randall that day. 
As usual, Rockne started his "shock troops", and by the end of the first quarter the score stood Wisconsin 3, Notre Dame 3, the .result of the drop-kicking accuracy of Harmon of vVisconsin and O'Boyle of Notre Dame. Then came the call, and the entire first team burst onto the field while the Notre Dame stands went into an up­roar. Then the fun hegan. 
Crowley, :Miller, Layden, and Stuhldreher were whirlwinds that day, and· the line, from end to end, was adamant. Wisconsin fought gamely, but in vain. Light­ning thrusts off tackle and sudden swerves around the ends rarely failed to gain yardage, and when the Gold and Blue ~rst team left the field Notre Dame led 31-3. The last quarter found the "shock troops" again in action and the attack was waged as furiously as before, culminating this time in a touchdown by Roach. Notre Dame was:i~vincible_in the \Visconsin game. All the men seemec;I. to have a good day; the team-play. was perfect.. The Notre Dame student body holds pleasant memories of \Visconsin University as a re·sult ··of the student trip to :Madison. 


.,.. ,,-•• _,!_....,________ ~-· 
1924 FOO'TBALL REVIEW Page 37 


"Rockne Cavalry Rides Rough Shod Over Wisconsin" 
By JAMES CnusiNDERRY, Chicago Sunday Tribune. 

MADISON, Wis., Nov. 8.-(Special.)­Knute Rockne's great Notre Dame football team swamped Wisconsin this afternoon at Camp Randall, 38 to 3. Had the South Bend coach kept his cp.valry backs in the game all the time he might have doubled the count. He had them in long enough to roll up 28 points in about two quarters of the time. · Te rest of the battle was carried' on by his infantry, tho second, third, an~ perhaps the fourth and fifth string men being on the battle front about half time and scoring 10 points against the Badgers. 
Wisconsin's only score came at the close of the first period when the Badgers played their best and crowded the Rockne kids down almost against their own goal line. They had a first down inside of the Notre Dame 20 yard line and then Leo Harmon of the Badgers tore through for 7 yards. 
Right then a11d there Gen. Rockne called out his cavalry. He halted the play while eleven regulars, on the bench, yanked off coats and sweaters and pulled on headgear and ran out upon the field to take the place of the young infantry. Loud cheers came from the 
c;~

Notre Dame rooters as the horsemen galloped upon 

~
~~.__ ___..__. end. Crowley had added athe battlefield. The kids T' "F \1 · ·· point after every touch-had scored a field goal and ne o u ~ ·n·Q rse "tne"'" d \ d. . down by carefully kicking..were leading, 3 to 0, but 

so':"e. ~~e.~t ~tdin9 in the. goal and the score stood

had been driven back into their own territory. 
W1s coo ~ 1 h 9~ 1"1'\ e • 31 to 3. Then Gen. Rockne arose

It is the credit of Wis­


consin what happened then. A lanky back named McGivern was handed the ball and told to charge into those cavalrymen. He did and made it first down on the 11 yard line. The cavalry seemed about to be driven back. · 
Again the Badgers charged. Three times they tore into those horsemen but in the three attacks they made .only 7 yards. Then Do~le Harmon dropped back to his 14 yard line and booted the ball over the bar. for 3 points that tied the score. · 
It was the big moment of the day for the· Wisconsin rooters. They had tied the count against Rockne's great team and they made the most of it. Tremendous cheers rolled across the field from the west stand where the Cardi­nal rooters were massed. But over in the east stand Notre Dame's cheering throng wasn't worried. Their c.avalry was in the fight. They were confident Qf success. And it was only a· few minutes before they were. rewarded. 
The quarter ended a tie, 3 to 3, but in the second periqd thqse terrible South Bend horse­
men started to ride-they were rough riders, every one of them. They simply galloped over the foe. 
Wisconsin's men were left helpless upon 4.:he battlefield as Don Miller, Crowley, Layden, and Stuhldreher galloped.
In the second period they galloped over the Cardinal uniforms for two touchdowns. They had the count,· 17 to 3 in their favor when the hali ende~ . 
When the third period opened, all the cavalry was back for more galloping. They wanted to ride down the field some more before turning
the game over again to the infantry. 
The period had barely begun when Crowley rode down the field for a 60 yard gain, planting the ball on \Visconsin's 25 yard line; Don Miller, Layden, and Crowley then rode over the goal . line in a series of most damaging attacks, · and the · South Bend boys had the count 24 to 3 in their favor. 
Still not satisfied, the horsemen took their places for some more riding and fn about ten minutes, an­other touchdown had been counted, Crowley going over £or a score on a short run around the Badger left 
from his bench and called off his cavalrymen. Their work was done. They 
·went to their barracks. The battle was won and there was no doubt the infantry could hold the fort.. Never did one· see so many young football men rushed into battle. No one in the press stand could call them by name. It is doubtful if Mr. Rockne himself knows more than half o'f theiu. The program "didn't have as many on the list as Mr. Rockne had in uni­form. He sent one squad in after another. Seemed as if there couldn't be that many stu­dents in the whole South Bend school. 
These youngst~rs, however went out on the field and fought like tigers. They all hope to be horsemen some qay like Don Miller, Crowley, Layden, and Stuhldreher. They wanted to show what they could do. 
When the gam~ ended, Notre Dame students, led by their band, did a snake dance on the field and ·tossed their hats over the cross bars at each end of the field. It looked as if there were a f~w well ·known Chicago men of celtic origin out there romping with the students. 

Page 88 1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
Notre Dame 84 Nebraska ~ 6 
A packed and colorful crowd, which combined all of the enthusiasm of hope and confidence, provided a noble stage for the Irish victory against Nebraska. Notre Dame had vengeance and a pleasant day, tilting the Nebraskans off Cartier field, 34-6. There may be games with more sensational playing, with more artistic foot­ball handling, but none, past or future, will ever appeal to the heart of Notre Dame men as this game which witnessed Rockne erasing the memory of two years defeat, by trouncing the huge Cornhusker squad soundly, without apology, before a crowd of 26,000 persons, the largest crowd of fans ever gathered in the Cartier Field stands. 
Tickets for the,Nebraska game went like wildfire and weeks before N ovembcr 15 there was not a reserve card to be had except at the hands of scalpers. Even general admissions for standing room were snapped up like diamonds. They stood, they sat on fences, they sat on the sidelines, they hung on the stands, but they saw Rockne's "vVonder Team" douse the light of the Nebraska crew. 
In the first period when ~ ebraska punched through for a touchdown on a fum­ble there was a big lump in the throats of Notre Dame faris-but not for long. Just as soon as the first string men swung into action it was all over with Nebraska. Look­ing back, it seems like a pleasant dream, the way :Miller and Crowley swiped the ends, ran the tackles, and piled over the white chalk lines. Layden, though battered severely, kept hammering the center. of the line; \Valsh and Bach were out for clean revenge. "Chuck" Collins did not give the Nebraska halfbacks a ghost of a chance. 
'.;['he Nebraska game will ever live in the minds of those who saw it, as one of the greatest exhibitions of football ever given by any team in any football age. The Nebraska tie was broken, the jinx thrown off. For Notre Dame men, it was glorious.. 

THE FIRST TOUCH-DOWN OF THE PRINCETON GAME 
1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW Paqe 39. 
"Notre Dame Soars Over Corn...Fed Nebraska" 
By KENNETH S. CoNN, South Bend Tribune 

SOUTH BEND, Ind., Nov. 15.-Notre Dame can again raise her head in rightful pride. N e­braska is sadly outclassed, so badly beaten that the score of 34 to 6 fails to show the vast superiority the Rockmen displayed yesterday afternoon at Cartier Field. 
The airplane is more effective than the bat­tleship. The crow can cover more territory than the tortoise.. The speeding shell from a howitzer can reach its objective quicker than a tank. And Notre Dame is a better team than Nebraska. So much and more was proved yesterday before the largest throng of alumni and football followers that 
ever witnessesd a classic on the local gridiron. The 26,000 spectators saw the football capital. of the uni­verse · permanently located in South Bend for this sea­son. They also· saw Rock­men crowned national col­
. legiate champions. Rock­nes' proteges won the un­deniable right to wear the purple toga and to wave the football sceptre with undisputed authority. 
But what is best of all the Rockmen avenged the defeats of .1922 and 1923. The victory over the Corn­huskers was the healing salve that will completely efface the scars of those two encounters. It was not in the books for Nebraska to keep the Crown Prince from ascending the throne three years in succession. Yesterday was coronation day at Notre Dame. 
The score does not show the vast difference between· the Rockmen and Cornhuskers. The Rockmen completely outclassed their opponents in every department of the game. Twenty­three first downs for Notre Dame as compared to two first downs for Nebraska gave the fans some idea of the complete swamping the west­ern players received. · 
It was an old game. Not a single star loomed forth from the western sky .unless Bloodgood can be ranked among the celebrities for his scooping up of Lp.yden's fumble that finally re­sulted in Nebraska's lone score ·and his spear­ing a forward pass .in the last quarter which resulted in one of his team's first downs. Then there was Ed Weir,. Nebraska captain, who played a whale of a game at left tackle and was practically his whole team's ·defense on line plays. 
For Notre Dame it is a different story, a vastly superior· tale. In Notre Dame's back­field. there danced Miller, Crowley and Layden, directed by the greatest field wizard that has ever turned turf .at Cartier Field, Harry Stuhl­dreher. So to single out any one of the lead­ing lights of the game would be a rank injus­tice to the other three. 

First it was Miller circling around the ends for notable gains, then it was Crowley, and then there was Layden splitting the line with the speed and momentum of a cannon ball. Then to top it off there was Stuhldreher to carry the ball or to toss the pigskin with deadly accuracy into the hands of his waiting backs. They were all there, they were all stars and together they make Notre Dame the greatest 
eleven in football history. 
After the backs, who al­ways rank first due to' their spectacular playing, comes the Notre Dame line. In the center stood Adam Walsh, captain of t h e Rockmen, and his se'ction of the forward wall pre­sented a defense that was impregnable. His offensive playing also ranked higher than can be expected of a lineman. The whole line held its own against N e­braska.. And the ends, well, they usually stopped the Cornhusker backs for either no gain or _loss. 
Possibly the most spec­
.tacular bit of. playing oc­curred in the final seconds of the third quarter. It was a play that brought the spectators to their feet and · sent most of them home hoarse. Layden, ·after slipping, thre\v the ball 
. from an almost sitting po­sition to Crowley who sped 65 yards after re­ceiving the pass for a touchdo.wn. · The throw 
in itself was .remarkable and then Crowley's run was a sensation. The two ·combined gave the privileged 26,000 an insight of the capa­bility of the Roc}fmen under stress. . ' 
Rockne's proteges seem to· make it a· feature to offer· something new in the way of offensive playing in each game. · Yesterday's feature was forward passing, and as this phase of the game was originally introduced by Rockne him­self back in 1913 ·when a player for Notre Dame. It reached its highest· development yes­terday against Nebraska for three of the five touchdowns were due directly to overhead heaves. 
The Rockmen tried 10 forward passes, seven of which we}.·e successful, Nebraska tried seven aerial tosses, one of which was completed. 
.That just· about represents the difference be­tween. the two teams in every department. 
Page 40 1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

Notre Dame.  13  
Northwestern  (9  
Notre Dame, with but two games remaining on the schedule, journeyed to Chi-­cago for what was considered before the game an easy victory. A sloppy field and a Northwestern halfback named Baker caused the serenely confident Notre Dame team and student body the most interesting Saturday afternoon of the season. Thir­ty-five thousand people, the largest crowd ever to witness a football game in Chicago_. crowded the Grand Park Stadium for the game.  
The Northwestern team, playing at th~ peak of their season's form, gave a won­derful exhibition of football; however the Four Horsemen and the charging wall be­fore them were not to be denied the glories of the undefeated season so nearly with­in their grasp. Northwestern would have defeated most any team-in the country that afternoon but Rockne's wonderful organization could not have been. stopped by­_the 'Vrigley Building had the Chicagoans the power to throw that little construction in the way of Notre Dame's National Championship. Harry Stuhldreher per­formed brilliantly; -his passes were near-perfect and his handling of tl.1e ball was flawless. Harry demonstrated to Chicago the abilities which have made him practi­cally an una~imous All-American choice. The other Horsemen, though slowed up by the soggy field, ran gloriously.  
Among other reasons, the Northwestcrn game will be ever famous for the his­toric "crack" .made by Adam 'Valsh during the battle. Speaking to the line, com­posed of :Messrs. vVeibel, Kizer, Bach, Rip Miller, Hunsinger, and Collins, he said, "Come on you ·:Mules, the Horsemen are waiting."  i :.·  






• ~.... • ~ l f -:. '' -., -~ -.. # ­

-r.--. -___ _}___~-~--~.:-~~ --~~-----------'·--~­
1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
"Notre Dame is Forced to the Limit" 
By JIMMY CoRCORAN. 


CHICAGO, Ill., Nov. 22.-Notre Dame, the Dempsey of footbal1, almost took the windward side of a royal Purple haymaker on its educated chin yesterday in the Grant Park Stadium. After a merry afternoon of mud slinging, toe to toe socking and bitter pastiming, the 'Ram­blers of Rockne were tickled to scoot off the field on the large end of a 13 to 6 score. 
Northwestern flashed more throughout the mill than any one .had ever accused them of possessing. And the Irish showed only inter­mittent touches of the moving game that has made them famous throughout the country. In 
other words, the Purple 
nearly battled this famous 
eleven to a standstill. Thistlethwaite's athletes regard the result as a vic­tory, and it must be stated that they showed enough for one. The line was mighty, battling the Notre Dame wall on even terms, while Baker and Weinecke, Purple backs, hammered the opposition and turned the e n d s for repeated gains. Mr. "Moon" Baker threatened for a time to act as presiding host at an .Irish wake. And if he had additional assistance from his mates he might have · staged such an event. .He was just about the whole show for Northwestern. · "Moon," who has a 99 44-100 per cent wallop, snapped into it bright and early by spinning a drop­


kick between ·the timbers. . This occurred early in the first quarter. Notre Dame· rooters merely. yawned and "ho-hum­med." But when "Moon" toed another through the bars shortly after Rockne rushed in the regulars, there was gnashing of teeth and shifting of seats ~s the cry for "the horsemen" went up. 
With the appearance of the regulars the tide turned Notre D~meward, and in the second quarter Stuhldreher shot across for a touch­down. Crowley's boot gave the Irish a point edge. This, it was thought, was only the be­ginning of another cross-country parade. As events proved, it was the only touchdown that the Ramblers earned during the afternoon. 
The "heads up" activity· of Elmer Layden brought Notre Dame the second and last touch­down in the fourth quarter. Layden, standing on the Purple 40-yard mark, stepped out to spear a stray Baker pass, and then shook his ten-second hoofs over the goal line. 
The horsemen made one mistake. They ·for­got to bring their boots from South Bend. In the heavy going, which was not suited to the Irish style of game, the-riders were lost. There were stretches of their noted dashing drives, but the finishing touch was usually missing. Rockne, who is a sportsman as well as a great coach, refused to attribute the sluggishness of Notre Dame to weather conditions. 
"Northwestern was great," King Knute said after the scuffle. No alibis. And the game exhibited by Northwestern surely doesn't de­serve the af~ermath of "reasons why." 
The elevens skidded out on the field before one of the most colorful crowds Chicago has 
ever seen at a sporting 
event. It 'VqS a happy lay­
out of 30,000, despite the fact that the boys and girls a r o u n d the colonnade needed spyglasses to fol­low the plays. ·when dusk dropped in toward closing time the ball was hardly discernible. 
Northwestern lost little time in impressing the Irish that it was set for battle. The Rockne cubs were un­able to puncture the· Pur­ple line nor were they able to halt the Thistlethwaite charges. Baker touched off the first bomb with his slanting drop kick from the 35-ym;d line. A few min­utes later his splendid ef­fort from the 38-yard line, near the sideline added to the Purple determination. From then on Northwest­ern went at it like a champion. 
The Rockne regulars, after testing the turf, turned to the·.air game, and it was a long toss, Stuhldreher .to Crow­ley, that aided in the first touchdown. This perfect execution placed the ban· on the Purple 9-yard line. From here the horsemen snorted to the 2-yard line and Harry Stuhldreher sifted through for a touchdown. · 
Northwestern broke loose in a manner that was unfair to organized labor in the second half, and before the turnout realized what it was all about, the Purple was moving down the field for big yardage. This charge died when Baker missed a drop kick. 
Notre Dame now snarling and desperate, set out to do business. End runs by Crowley and Mille!, an occasional sock· by Layden and a forward pass Stuhly to Miller, brought the ball to the Purple 25-yard mark but the Rocknes were left on the limb. 
Notre Dame started on another stretch of activity when a forward pass, took the· ball to the Purple 5-yard line. Here the famous backs of Rockne turned· loose all they had in a mighty effort, but the Nqrthwestern line held. 


I: 
! 
Page 42 1924 FOO'TBALL REVIEW 
Notre Dame 40 Carnegie Tech.. 19 
The season of 1924 will go down in the annals of football as one of upsets and surpnsmg-consequences. Until the Tech victory, Notre Dame was undefeated hut the football 'vorld feared for the outcome of Notre Dame's final game. However, the four Horsemen treated the 35,000 fans to such an exhibition of dazzling football that there remained no doubt as to which was the nations greatest football team. 
Rockne, following the custom of preceding games, sent in his shock team con­sisting of Crowe and Eaton, ends; l\Icl\Iullen and l\'lcl\'lanmo? tackles; Glueckcrt and. Hanousek, guards; l\Iaxwell at center; the backfield included Edward's, O'Boyle, Connell and Livergood. But the Rockmen were confronted with a team of tearing, smearing, fighting Tartans who refused to be subdued uritil Kristoff blocked a punt and raced thirty-five yards for a touchdown. At this point, Rock stood up and signalled to vValsh to lead his team on the field. Once the regulars got warmed up there was no doubt as to the outcome, though ~he battlers of Carne­gie Tech were by no means easily tamed. 
.Layden was unable to play because of an injury but Livergood and Cerney, al­ternating at fullback, played a game which will be long 'remembered. Don l\Hller went over for the first touch-down on a pass from his room-mate Stuhldreher; Cerney, who had replaced Livergood, was the next to counter, and the half ended with. the score tied at 13-13. ,­
In the second half the Tartan defc:J;Ise weakened and Livergood went over for two touch-downs; Crowley and Stuhldreheraddcd each another one to make the score tally unanimous in the backfield. Bcdc for Carnegie Tech, added a third touch-down against the Notre Dame "shock troops," who had relieved the regulars. 
In the Tech game, Notrc Dame successfully completed twelve consecutive passes, a new world's record. · 

1924 FOO'IBALL REVIEW Page 43 


"Notre Pame Gallops Over Carnegie Tech" 
By \VARREN W. BnowN., Chicago Herald and Examiner 

PITTSBURG, Pa., Nov. 29.-Three of the Four Horsemen Qf Notre Dame, Crowley, Stuhldreher and Miller, and a person named Livergood, who is not a Horseman, is consid­erably more thap. an exercise boy, cut loose in such mad fashion in the second half of today's tussle with Carnegie Tech, pass­ing, and running and banging the line, that they turned a ·13-13 tie, in which the. first half ended, into a 40 to 19 final score, which is at once the largest score that has been run up against the Rock_ne Ramblers this season, and the equal of the count Notre Dame amassed against Lombard in the first game of the year. 
There was glory enough 
again. They were still tied

for Carnegie Tech's light, 
when the _half .ended.

fast, alert players.. One 
H<lrr~

touchdown against t h e 
It might as well be set
Stu hldre he.r

powerful team of Rockne 
forth here and now that in 

was all they hoped for. 
this first period the breaks 

Three gave them almost as 
helped Tech. That blocked 

many thrills as a victory. 
kick of Edwards and the 

And of these three one was 
fumble of Cerney were 

scored against THE Notre 
both turned into scores. 

Dame team, and not against 
The Ramblers outrushed 

the "shock troops," Beede, 
Tech in the first half, and 
overwhelmingly outpassed

Tech fullback, g o i n g 
them, the Tech team try­

across the line unchallen­
ing but one pass, the only

ged, · after a fake pass, 
one, by the way, they tried

while all of King Rockne's 
all afternoon. It was in­

Horseman were chasing an 
complete. Notre D a m e

unidentified, red-shirted 
registered e 1e v e n first

Tech man over in another 
downs to three and com­

· corner of the park. 
pleted six out of nine

This play was so good passes in the first half.that Tech· yanked it out of 
"When the hostilities were

the bag again late in the 
resumed Cerney was miss­

fourth period, after Rock­
ing from the picture and

ne had recalled his regulars 
'-'J'l-\.h (q\" I"W9ie. 
Livergood was on the job.

· and "shock troops," and 
Te.c. ho 
His line smashing and ·

had a collection of third 
Stuhldreher's passing net-

string players on the field. 


It scored · again, Beede carrying the ball, while the young men of No-· tre Dame we;re · running ragged a Te_ch man who was carrying everything but the football. 
Tech's other score, and· their· first, came in the first period, when Kristoff blocked Edwards' punt, recovered it. at midfield, and. gallqped over the snow-covered field for a touchdown. Santa Claus himself is the orily snow traveler who could have brought more joy to the Tech rooters than this 50-yard scrambling.Kristoff. 
This touchdown saw· the end of the "shock trooos" for ·most ·of the afternoon, ·and it didn't take Notre ·Dame long to get themselves a cou­ple of touchdowns after the. Horsemen galloped on the field~ · Tech did mapage to hold them until the second quarter, but in this, the dead­ly accuracy of the pass, as exemplified by Harry Stuhldreher, even_tually stampeded Tech enough to permit Don Miller to get loose for a forty­yard canter for-a score.. ·Crowley kicked the goal, and · tlie .six~point ' 'margin ·Tech ·held through Kristoff's effort was gone. 
Tech kicked off to the Notre Dame 28-yard line and then, P?SS, pass, pass the boys were marching. Stuhldreher to Crowley, Stuhldre­her to Miller, line smashes by Cerney, off­tackle slants by Crowley and one final flop of Cerney's that nett~~ _three· yards and a touch­down. Notre Dame 13;·Tech, 6; hooray. 
Just when the Ramblers were about ready to don .their snowshoes and start .on another cross-country jaunt this Cerney person, who seems to specialize in fumbles, put on his act on his own 28-yard line and Harmon of Tech recovered. It was at this point that Tech. pulled their phony pass play and scored the 
counter that tied things up 
ted a touchdown in a hurry and Crowley kicked the goal. · Notre Dame took the ball on the next kickoff and paraded down the field, giving a demonstration of the manly art of forward passing and line bucking, with little or no resistance being offered their efforts. A final pass :across ·the goal lirie, 
· Sttihldreher to Crowley, gave the touchdown. "Sleepy" booted ~he goal, to·o. This was all tl~at happened in the third per­iod. Please note that Notre Dame· had the ball all the time. They still had it when. the final period began, and kept it until they scored a counle mo;re touclidowns. Livergood and Stuhl­dreher getting them, the final as a result of a quarterback sneak for a bout a yard. "Rockne Second" probably dropped that one in just be­cause it was about the only thing he hadn't pulled in. the course of the afternoon. 
Warren W. Brown Answers a Question: "What sort of rating does Notre ·Dame get if you pay attention to camparative scores? l)oes it establish the team's claim to a nation­al championship or doesn't it?" It does, brother, it does. 


1924 F007"BALL REVIEW Page45 

The Four Horsemen of Notre Darne 

POLO GROUNDS, New York, October 18.-0utlined against a blue gray Octo­

ber sky the Four Horsemen rode again. 
In dramatic lore they are known as Famine, Pestilence, Destruct_ion and Death. 

These are only aliases. Their real names are: Stuhldreher, Miller, Crowley and 
Layden. . -GRANTLAND RICE, (New York Times). 
Isn't this Notre Dame backfield the greatest ever played?" · 
It is the greatest \ve have ever seen when speed, power, team play, rhythm, grace, dash and general ability are all to be considered. There has never been a faster backfield. There has never been one with as much beauj;y of rhythm. 
They have been in only two defeats in three· years, both from the same team. After to­day they fade from the scene, but no one who saw them play this fall will forget the picture. There have been greater individual backs, but we have never seen four upon one team who had as much class. -GRANTLAND RICE 
October 25 in the Palmer Stadium, Princeton was defeated 12-0 by a great eleven from Notre Dame. The same quartet of splendid backs who ran wild last year again· proved their title to fame as one of the most marvelous backfields of all time. Without any question, think, this quartet is collectively the fastest backfield I have ever seen. In my judgment the slowest member of it can run a hundred in ten-two. · But they have not only speed, they have intuitive genius in eluding· tackles; moreover, genius fortified and improved by carefully pol­ished coaching to obtain the last inch out of every effort to advance the ball. Crowley is the finest back, bali-in-hand, who has. appeared on an eastern gridiron since Mahan. He does not attempt to do all the things Mahan did, but at runing with the ball he is every bit as good as Mahan. On the showing of Saturday he is as gJod .defensively ~s on the offense. Indeed, the great. defensive power of this whole backfield -was a distinct surprise to me. 
DONALD GRANT HERRING, (The Princeton-Alumni "\Veekly.) 

Page 46 1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
The Eugene C. Bonniwell Football Trophy of America Avvarded to Notre Dame 
The Eugene C. Bonniwell Football trophy, symbolic of the National Football Championship of America, is donated by the Veteran Athletes of Philadelphia, upon such jrears when the preeminence of any football team is so beyond dispute as to en­title it to national recognition. The cup is awarded only in those years wl1en the Board of Directors of the Association by an unanimous vote of its membership, designates such a recipient. 
The Eugene C. Bonniwell Trophy for 1924 has been awarded to Notre Dame. 
Some of the Directors of the Association who awarded the cup to Notre Dame are: 
HENNRY PENN BunKE Five times Commodore of the Scht)ylkill Navy, the greatest row­ing association in this country. 
En1f_EST CouzENS All-American Center and Captain of the University of Pennsylvania 
1905 te~m. Graduate ~Ian.ager U. of P. ·Athletics. 
SAl\lUEL J. DALLAS President Meadowbrook C I u b , Philadelphia, Vice-President. Penn 
A. C., and President Atlantic Di­. visi~n, A. A._ U. for. ten years. 
"\VILLIAM G. FmEDGEN 
Philadelphia Turngemein~e Olym:.. pic Foils, Sabre and Broadsword Champion, 1900. 
PAuL "\V.~ GmBoNs Vice-Prcsi_~ent, Penn A. C., and na­tional Tennis authority. 
CHARLES c. HILDEBRAND 
·Four letter man Pennsylvania State· College and tackle on the 1890-1-2 teams; 
Dn. GEoRGE "\V. ORTON, Director of Pennsylvania Relay Races, and holder of seventeen American or Na~ional and Olympic Championships at the mile, 1500 meters and three mile distances. 
"\VILLIAM H. RocAP National authority on sport, Chair­man Pennsylvania State Boxing 
Commission~ 
WILLIAM \V. RoPER Ex-Captain-Coach Princeton Uni­versity football team. 
DR. J. K. SHELL Fullback, University of Pennsyl­vania, 1884, Coach at Pennsylvania,. Swarthmore and Illinois. 
RALPH. B. STRASSBURGER United States Naval Academy, whose ninety yard run defeated the Army some fifteen years ago. 
ALLEN E. (Mum) WHITING Captain and halfback, CornelL 
HERMAN F. WoLFE World's Amateur 135-45 \Vrestling Champion, 1893-98. 
The Hon. Eugene C. Bonniwell who is a judge of the ~Iunicipal Court of Phil­
.adelphia, ina letter to the editors of .the REVIEW, writes, "Sorry we cannot sent you a photograpl~ of the cup,but you can rest assured it will be one commensurate with the team of Our Lady." 
1924 FOO?:BALL.REVIEW 
:Rrickne Makes R¢ady to. Invade East Next Saturday·· 



. ~ 
Page 48 1924 F007'BALL REVIEW 
"What Sort of a Team is Notre Dame?" 
B.lf 'VARREN ,V. BrrowN. 
Sporting Editor, Chicago !Jerald and E.vaminer.* 

"\Vhat sort of a team is Notre Dame?"· seems to be the problem that is worrying all the natives of this couptry who haven't been able to get a peek at the boys in action. So marked has been the success of the team, in all kinds of going, ·and. against all sorts of competion, many who haven't seen the team, have ascribed to it all kinds of powers, magical and otherwise. It has reached a point where one who. has seen the Rockne Ramblers, can tell one who has not, almost any sort of a yarn about the team's accomplishments, and make him believe it. That, I believe, is one of the answers to "What sort of a team is Notre Dame?" 
From views take_n from a perch on the top of the stand, generally allotted to the workers of the press, at football struggles, and from various observations made at odd moments during practice sessions, the only decision I can come to about "What sort of a team is Notre Dame?" is that it is a team, first, and eleven healthy, husky, capable yo.ung players after:wards. · That, I am sure, is as much responsible for the success· of the combination, as anything else. 
Coach Rockne, or his players.: or both, have managed to realize a sort of p1~actical applica­tion of the "One for all, and all for one," principle. I have, at a practice tilt, heard· the coach "call" one of his more famous players, with the same thoroughness, and the same~· I am happy to write, good effect as was noticeable when he took to task one of the boys who hadn't eyen reached a point where he was considered a member of the "shock troops." That's team spirit. That's what wins games. That's "what sort of a team is Notre Dame." . 
I'll grant that the backfield gathered together this season is a perfect a quartet as it has ever been my good fortune to watch. But it is equally true that one can go from one end of the line to the other, and if not always naming a star, as football. stars go, nevertheless be able to pick a player who knew his job, and knew, its relation to what his neighbor was trying to do. There may have been players on. the Notre Dame team who were not entitled to "All:· American" rating, but none can say that there were players on the team who we!en't the best possible units for the makeup of a team that comes as close to perfection as one will ever see. ­
This is not meant for a. hurrahing of Notre Dame, just for the sake of cutting loose :with a long cheer. 
It is more or iess hard facts. Study the record that Notre Dame's football team has made in the various parts of· the country to which its travels ·have called it, and you'll concede that no•..; but a perfect team could survive. · . 
. . 

It has been said that no team can keep "pointed" Saturday after Saturday;that each team must have its good·days and its bad; and that on the bad, the so-called "upsets" are certain. Notre Dame's bad days came along in the season just closed. But .Notre Dame was coached, and understood its coaching in such a manner that it was able to resist the "upset," that bad days generally. bripg. 
I haven't a doubt but that Notre Danie will succeed in doing what no team from this side of the Rockies has ever done before-play its game at Pasaden~. This is the one game that Notre Dame and Rockne must win, and it is hard to conceive of Capt. Walsh, the four. Gallop­ing Goal ~rossers, Stuhldreher, Crowley, Miller and Layden, faltering when the word comes that the game. must be won.. If there is any doubt on this subject, you are referred, respectfully, to Army, .Princeton, Nebraska, Georgia Tech, Northwestern, Wisconsin, etc., etc., the milestones .-or should one say headstones?-along the path of Notre Dame to the ~ndisputed championship of the United States, the first team in memory, ever to attain such a destination. 
*Written upon the occasion of Warren W. Brown's visit to Notre Dame 'to speak at the alumni ovation to the var­
sity held December 13. . . . · 

,:==c:rr==s • .. .,._ ' ..... .#' 7.-. 
1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 4 


THE HORSEMEN IN ACTION 
(Above) Crowley carrying; the ball; (Below) Don Miller running;; Layden on the ground. 

Page 50 1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
The "Kick" in Notre Dame 

By CHARLES PHILLIPS, l\L A. Lecturer in English Literature; Author of uThe New Poland,, "The Teachers' Year,, "The Divine Friend", etc. Ev-erything that comes out of that blessed old campus has a Ieick: to it!-FnANI\. 'VALLACE, '23, Associated Press. Ten million people went to football games .this year-to the big games. This is not counting at all the million or two~ easily that, who witnessed scholastic contests of various grades.· Ten million-and it's a safe bet that 9,999,999 of these, some time or other, talked with a thrill in their voices and a pull at their hearts-admiration, exultation, fear, wonder-of Rockne, of the Four Horsemen, of Captain Adam, of brilliant scientific plays and knockout scores of No­trc Dame. There's a kick in that name today. Notre Dame! 'Vhat doesn't it mean! · The deft sharp interference that baffles, surprises,. blocks; the arrow-like· drive of young swift bodies catapulting through the line; the streaking end-run that jerks your heart into· your throat and chokes it there; the trim sure leg that swings· the unerring foot; the plump of the pigskin as it sails into the blue for punt or goal; the team, the score, the victory ..· . what does .it all mean, anyway? · · It means this for sure-stout hearts, clear eyes, quick wits, trained muscles, .clean limbed vigor, verve and go. There's a kick in all of that. But it means more. It means men; it means character. That's where the real kick comes in. If we pause and think for Just one moment of what has gone into the making of this glory of ours, this undisputed glory and this giving of healthy invigorating pleasures ... to tens of thousands of what sacrifices of' time and strength, what submissions to routine ana discipline, what practice in self-control,-what patience and determination and persistence; what hours on hours of grilling work doing a thing over and over and over again, and once more over and over, to make it perfect;-if 1vc think of this for one minute, then we will know where the kick lies in the magic words "Notre Dame." "Notre Dame." That name is a symbol today the whole sport world over, and far beyond the boundaries of the sport world-a symbol of mor~ than speed and endurance and gridiron science. "'\Vith forty-five of the forty-eight states of the Union represented on our campus, Notre Dame has become a sort of America in miniature. Not a mere section of the nation, but the whole nation, its youth, its young blood, its ideals and. aspirations, are focused on the old quadrangle where the Bronze Christ holds out His. hands in benedict~on and the Golden :Madonna looks down· protectingly with maternal love. And on the quadrangle the eyes of the entire country-at any· rate, of ten millions of our citizens-have been set during the past year with wonder and admiration and a very deep respect, visioning in the mime of Notre Dame something greater even than the title of a great University-visioning in the words "Notre Dame" a symbol of American manhood. That's where the kick comes in-in the realization that our country still produces brain and brawn of the sound old stock that keeps the ·world moving and makes· it, after all, a joyous and interesting place to live in; the stock that can play a game and win and keep. its head, and still-believe in God with a man's· strong untainted faith-the stock that prays to Heaven for its victories, knowing that no worthy act is un­. worthy the eye of God; the stock that thanks Our Lady for its triumphs and by its every· deed -and word invokes and honors Jeanne d' Arc of the spotless armour, :Michael of the invincible sword, the whole bright company of God's Saints; the stock that can offer even its defeats to Christ as a sacrifice on the altar of faith. _There's a kick in Notre Dame; not alone in Notre·Dame football, but in every effort, every endeavor, every activity that its men undertake. It is a training camp for more than .famous backfields, mighty captains, invinciable Horsemen. It is a training camp for men, for Ameri­can citizenship, for Christian manhood. That's where the kick is-in the knowledge· that America's acclaimed champions of the gridiron are the representatives of an ideal that works, and will work for all time to come, like a strong leaven in our national .soul-the ideal of manliness, sp~rtmanship, chivalry, of friendly rivalry and inspiring competition, based on the solid foundation of Christian living. "He's a Notre Dame man"-there's a password for any man, anywhere. There's a kick in the very words. They mean "something doing"-and something done. l\Iore and mor.e the world beyond our campus realizes this, because more and more the Notre Dame man himself realizes it and lives tip to it. 
Everything that comes out of that blessed old campus has a Icicle to it! 
1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 51 
Student ManaQers Cheer Leaders 


Rockne and· the team had an ·"ace" in the hole this year in the person of Leo H. Sutliffe, Student l\Ianager. Rockne was the great director and "Sut" was his stage · manager, his man behind the scenes. The job was one that required a great deal of initiative,· atten­tion to detail,· and much patience. On the long jaunts away from home it was up to 1 • :i Sutliffe to route the team, to LEO SUTLIFFE write in for hotel reservations, 
Student Manager to pack and check equipment, to arrange meals and to supply taxis and other incidentals necessary for the comfort and wel­fare of the team. Sutliffe deserves much cred­it for the way in which he handled the team on their five trips to foreign fields. 
At home Sutliffe had even more to do. But here he had a· corps of able assistants-men from the Junior, Sophomore, and Freshman classes, who, under the competitive Student Athletic l\Ianagers system, are eligible for full inanagerships their senior year. Under Sut­liffe's efficient organization and supervision these men did their work well, and, conse­quently, made the competition keener than ever for future managerial positions. This is as it should be for the work these men do re­lieves the coach of unnecessary worries, and permits him to give his undivided attention to the team. 
At home the student managers sell and take 
.in tickets at the gates, take complete charge of seating at the games, take care of tlie score­board, distribute tickets in . hotels ·and cigar stands, have advertising posters printed and distributed, and take care of visiting teams and officials. ·Sutliffe's Junior assistants in this work were Bill Reid, Ed Fallon, Andy Sleigh, Charles :1\'Iooney, L. C. Hegele, John Ryan, and Jack Adams. The Sophomore 1\Ianager­ial candidates include 'Villiam Kavanaugh, ·James Jones, James Coleman, )Villiam· O'Keefe, G. O'Brien, and J. Fiske. The Freshman managers .are A. 1\I. Grams, E. F. Bou!ke, J. P. Courts, B. J. Stettler, B. E. Zip­pere.r, lV. F. Duffy, J. D. Igoe, P. J. O'Con­nor, R. A. 'Veppner, D. Butler, G. Sargus,-L. '\Vingerter, T. Hopper and P. J. :McNamara. 

· Rockne had two All­American generals this 
year-Stuhldreher on the 
field, and Eddie Luther 
on the sidelines as cheer­
'leader par excellence. 
Early in the year Eddie 
got the gang together, 
and with his pounding, 
r~--.. ......-· smashing spirit worked 
up enthusiasm to· fever 
heat. 'Vith a year of ex­
. I 
. ..·;_-J'·:~ perience behind hiin, Ed:.. 
; ·_.......... -· __ 
' die worked like a trojan, 
. 
~ and he is now hailed as 
EDDIE LUTHER 
"AI". Slaggert the sec­
Head Cheer· Leader 
ond, the peer of Notre Dame's cheer leaders. The rousing demon­strations given upon the occasions o{ the Geor­gia Tech and the Nebraska pep meetings are sufficient evidence of Eddie's ability. Among other things, Eddie introduced several new yells, whipped the Freshmen recruits into shape, trained his assistants, and then went to the Army game and made the alumni yell themselves permanently hoarse. He then led five hundred "Fighting Irish" to Madison and it is said that the echoes still linger in Camp Randall Stadium. 
The assistant cheer leaders, Abbrott, Sweeney, and 1\Ioylan, assisted Eddie in great style. The staff was handicapped, however, because of the lack of a properly concentrated cheering section in the stands. 

The '23 Varsity . 


.Officers 
KNUTE K. Rocu:NE ------------------------------Ifead Coach GEoRGE KEOGAN ----------------------------Assistant Coach HARVEY BROWN ------------------------------------------Captain 
CoLLINS CRoWE l\fAYL MuRPHY HuNsiNGER 
LAMONT ARNDT 
FARRELL RoAcH 
CouGp~IN 
:McGEE 
ADAl\I 'VALSH JAMES SwiFT 
N OPPENDERGER BACH 
. EDGAR :MILLER OBERST BRoWN vVEIDEL 
NEWl\IAN . GLUECKERT 
J. MILLER MAGEVNEY GLYNN l\fcGRATH 
------------------------------------Captain-elect ------------------------------Student Manager 
Personnel 
VERGARA KIZER REAGON WALSH REESE STUHLDREHER 
The Reserves 
BARRY 
EATON 
HARRINGTON 
HARMON 
CooKE CRoWLEY DoN l\liLLER BERGMAN CoNNELL l\LuiER HousER 
l\hLDAUER 
Roux 
RIGALI 
E,GGERT 
l\fcl\fULLEN FRISKE 
. CERNEY ENRIGHT LAYDEN STANGE LIVERGOOD 
FINCH WALLACE LAFOLI.ETTE RIGNEY 
SuLLIVAN l\IAcNAn 
...=·::;;;:;;;;~~­

!I: ,.::;:::;-·~~====-====--=--------~-:::-:--·-~-----_:------:----:---_-~_:-__ __ ___-_--::-__.--:-__-_-__-_---~-------~---_-______.,.._-----~-~-_-_____ __:_---_-__-::.____---_-__-_;_-.~-~--~~-:.c->.--._~,.,---------· 
1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW Paqe 58 
Freshrnan Football 
The hope· arid the ambition of ev_ery prospective football player· entering college is to make-the freshman team. A place with the first year regulars gives the aspirant to gridiron. glories an edge on the man who waits till his second year to try out for the varsity. 
In a conversation between several varsity football stars a few years ago, the freshmen were fondly referred to as the "Goats". The yearling squad faces the ·task each year of giving ·impromptu demonstrations of· the plays of opponents, scheduled for the varsity on the next Saturday. The varsity perfects a defense against the first year men, using the opposition's formations. 
Each year the freshmen squad at Notre Dame plays an important partin shaping the varsity into a winning aggregation. The yearlings toil each night against their heavier and more experienced opponents and at-the end of the season they go into oblivion, unhonored-and unsung; forgotten everywhere but in the mind of the varsity coach who is looking forward. to material for next year. 
The freshman team of 1924 played a -gallant role in preparing Rockne's Fighting Irish for _a season of no defeats and the subsequent national _title. Coach George Keogan and his assistant, George Vergara, garnered a fighting freshman team out of more than a hundred candidates who answered the first call last September. What Rockne said about the varsity team can be applied to the freshman also, "We had a fairly good season." · 
The 1924 freshman team was composed of many good men who showedpromise of being vah.iable additions to future varsity teams, by causing this year's varsity no small ·amount of trouble in the many scrimmage practices. Three months of playing on the first year team within earshot of the lessons being taught in the famous Rockne school, has served to accustom the frosh to the Notre Dame system of football and although they had little .opportunity. to develop as a team \vith organization and a permanent attack because of the numerous changes to different systems· to accomo­date the various formations of the opponents, the squad as a whole gave every promise of being an invaluable asset to Rockne when he starts his 1925 campaign. 
·The yearlings .won two games in three starts, defeating Western State Normal, 15 to 7, and La Fountaine 31 to 0, and losing to Lake Forest, 9 to 0 after a stubborn battle against the terrific drive of the' Academy backfield. 
. Little can be said of the individual work of the men since they never had a fair chance to show under normal conditions. McCleary and Parisien divided the work at the pilot berth while Bushman, Walsh, Quinn and Fenney performed most of the time at the halves. F. Collins and Hanely carried the fullback burden. In the line were Captain Boeringer .and Fredricks at the center; Pliska, Loeppig, Smith and O'Toole at the guards; Norman, Graf, Cavanaugh and McAdams at the tackles; Krembs, Byrne, Heffernan and Shevigny at the ends. 

,­
. ---·· -_:. ·--·-·· ·_ ---. 

Page 54 1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

All-American and All-Western Teams of 1924 
Walter Ecke~sall' s All-American Elevens 
FIRST TEAM SECOND TEAM THIRD TEAM 

L. E ......... Luman, Yale .......................... Lawson, Leland Stanford.... Wakefield, Vanderbilt 
L. T ......... \Vier, Nebraska ...................... McGinley, Pennslyvania ......Van Dyne, Missouri 
L. G ......... Pondelik, Chicago .................. Garbisch, Army .................... Diehl, Dartmouth C ............... H_ornell, California ................. Walsh, Notre Dame ............ Lovejoy, Yale 
R. G ......... Farwick, Army ......................Abramson, Minnesota ..........Parson, Northwestern 
R. T ......... Beattie, Princeton .................. Gowdy, Chicago .................. N. Anderson, So. Cal. 
R. E ......... Bjorkman, Dartmouth ..........Mahaney, Holy Cross ...........Otte, Iowa 
Q. B ......... Stuhldreher, Notre Damc...... Dooley, Dartmouth ........-....Parkin, Iowa (Captain) (Captain) .(Captain) 
L. H ......... Grange, Illinois ......................Baker, Northwestern ..........Bahr, Purdue 
R. H ......... Crowley, Notre Dame ............_~tockton, Gonzaga ..............Pond, Yale 
F. B. ........ Layden, Notre Dame .............. McBride, Syracuse .............. vyycoff, Georgia Tech 
Eckersall's ·All-Western Elevens 
FIRST TEAM SECOND TEAM THIRD .TEAM 

L. E......~ ..Lingenfelter, Drake .............. Dilwig, Marquette ................ Seidel, Northwestern 
L. T ......... Wier, Nebraska ..~ ................... Cox, Minnesota ....................Henderson, Chicago . 
L. G ......... Pondelik, Chicago ..................Parsons, N. U ....................... Bieberstein, Wisconsin C ............... Walsh, Notre Dame .............. Claypool, Purdue .................. Lowry, Northwestern 
R. G ......... Abramson, Minnesota ...........Steele, Michigan ..................Hubka, Nebraska 
R. T ......... Gowdy, Chicago ...................... Bach, Notre Dame ................Van Dyne, Missouri ·R. E ......... Otte, Iowa ..............................Cunningham, Ohio State...... Collins, Notre Dame 
Q. B ......... Stuhldreher, Notre Dame........Parkin, Iowa ........................Orebaugh, Drake (Captain) (Captain) (Captain) 
L. H ......... Grange, Illinois ......................Baker, Northwestern ······"···N. Behm, Ames 
R. H ......... Crowley, Notre Dame ............Bahr, Purdue ··········-·~····-----··Rhodes, Nebraska 
F. B ......... Layden, Notre Dame ..............Thomas, Chicago .................. Levi, Haskell · 
Jones-Rockne-Warner All-American . T ea~s 
FIRST TEAM SECOND TEAM THIRD TEAM 

L. E ......... Lawson, Stanf01'd ......:.............. Wakefield, Vanderbilt ..........Stout, Princeton 
L. G ......... McGinley, Penn .............. : ....... N. Anderson, Sou. Calif.......Karney, Cornell 
L. T ......... Farwick, Army ........................ Bellman, Washington ..........Abramson, Minnesota C ............... Lovejoy, Yale ........................ Horrell, California ................ Walsh, Notre Dame 
R. G ......... Pondelik, Chicago .................. Garbisch, Army .................... Diehle, ·Dartmouth 
R. T ......... Weir, Nebraska ......................Beattie, .Princeton ................Van Dyne, Missouri 
R. E ........Luman, Yale ..........................Bjorkman, Dartmouth ..........Cunningham, Ohio 
Q. B. ........ Stuhldreher, Notre Dame ...... Dooley, Dartmouth ..............Parkin, Iowa 

L. H ......... Grange, Illinois ...................... Koppisch, Cloumbia ............Baker, Northweste!·n 
R. H ......... Crowley, Notre Dame ............ Pond, Yale, .~.-~ .......................Jones,· Florida · 
F. B ......... Layden, Notre Dame .............. McBride, Syracuse ..............Scott, Yale 
'. i 
Notre Dame uScholastic" ·All-American T earns Picked by the Notre Dame Student Body-t:· FIRST TEAM SECOND TEAM THIRD TEAM 

L. E ......... Wakefield, Vanderbilt : ........... Bullman, West Virginia ...... Collins, Notre Dam2 
L. T ......... Wier, Nebraska ......................~ach, Notre Dame .............. Gowdy, Chicago · 
L. G ......... Pondelik, Chicago ..................Farwick, Army .................... Abramson, Minnesota· C.: ............. Walsh, Notre Dame ..............Horrell, California.. : .............. Lovejoy, Yale 
R. G ......... Garbisch, Army ..................... Deihl, Darthmouth ··~···········Eckstein, Brown 
R. T: ........ l\!_cGinley, Penn. . ................... Anderson, U. S. C. . ............. Beattie, Princeton 
R. E ......... Luman, Yale .......................... Lawson, Stanford ................Bjorkman, Dartmouth 
Q. B. ........ Stuhldreher, Notre Dame ......Pease, Columbia .............~ .... Dooley, Dartmouth 
L. H........Crowley, Notre Dame ............Baker, Northwestern ..........Pond, Yale 
R. H ......... Grange, Illinois ...................... !{oppisch, Columbia ............ Miller, Notre Dame 
F. B. .......Layden, Notre Dame.............. Hazel, Rutgers ......................Benkert, Rugers 
*These All-American elevens are the result of five hundred ballots east by members of the Notre Dame Student Body. The players were given points for first, second or third place selections and the three receiving the high­er number of points were given places on the first, second or third teams. A special effort was made to have im­partial selections made. 
It is understood of· course, that to the Notre. Dame student, the perfect All-American team is that which Coach Rockne used this fall to make glorious Notre Dame football history. 

Teasing the Tiger 


• 


i'. ·'_ 
j/,/ 
~-, 
,.. 
!:.:··· 
,··.-.. 
t. ­

·I~ 

Page 56 1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

The 1923 Season 
The Records 
Septe1nber 29______N otre Daine____ 74; l{almnazoo ______ 0 October 6______________N otre Daine____ 14; Lmnbard --------0 October 13____________N otre Dame____ 13;. Ariny --------------0 October 20____________N otre Daine.... 25; Princeton ______ 2 October 27____________N otre Daine____ 35; Georgia Tech.. 7 ·N ove1nber 3 .......... N otre Dame....34; Purdue ----------~-7 N oven1ber 10________Notre Dame____ 7; N ebra_ska ________ 14 
N ove1nber 17________Notre Dame....34; Butler ------------7 
N ove1nber 24_________N otre Dame____ 26; Carnegie Tech 0 
N ove1nber 29________N otre Daine....13; St. Louis --------0 
/ 
The Total N u1nber of Points Scored: Notre Dame 275 ; Opponents 37. 
.! 

,"'•' .,.•'-... ~ • ' • -, , f • ~ 1 -~ -\~' c";-,.. ::_ • • r, ~. ~, .: ,..f"'.... ~ • t 

!-·-·--~.:.. ~-~-·----' 
. . 
. 

·~\. 
·-} .. 
1924 FOO'IBALL REVIEW Page 57 
1924 Football Verse 

'-· 
'1'1-IE I-IORSEniEN'S RIDE 
On gridiron fields of football fame, Ride the four great horsemen of Notre 
Dame, From Princeton East· to Nebraslca T¥est, They ha_ve charged through the lines of the 
countries best, "They shall not pass" the Army cried, But nothing could stop the horsemen's rid.e, .On to victor.lf and immortal fame, Still ride· the four great horsemen of Ifotre 
Dame. 
-PITTSBURGH GAZETTE TIMES. 

"TtHE FOUR HORSEJI!IEN" And ever they rode and ever tlzey •won, That trinity led by a fourth. In the East, through the 1Vest and the South, And right through t.hf!. walls of the North. 
For nothing coitld .stop them nor hold Those horsemen that traveled .lilce flame; They rode with· the footfalls of fat~ · And the ans·wer was always· the same. · 
I dealic quartet of all time . The song that you sang was complete, It was 'round 'em mid through 'em and past To the time of your merciless feet. 
Great riders who've never been thrown, You're leaving us; deep is regret. TVith som.e will your memory fade, But the ridden •will never forget! 
-HARCOURT STRANGE. 

"THE LAST RIDE TOGETHER" 
CrO'tole.lf and Layden, side b,1J side., niiller and. Stuhldreher in their stride., After to-da.1J will no more ride­And so their curtain falls to-night. 
-GRANTLAND RICE. 
THE IRISH LINE The poets who sang the great battle of old And apportioned the laurels due To the victors., full often left untold The 11raises of heroes true. To commander or chief in each higher grade · TVere allotted the honors won; But rarely were fitting tributes 11aid To the man behind the gun. 
So, too, in the mimic. battles fought And ·won on the autumn field., Not seldom brave Forwards seem half-forgot, Their derring-do half-concealed. Y et".many a headliner's 11lace in the sun Is due to their fierce attaclcs; For, lilce to the man behind the gun, Are the lads befl!re the Baclcs. 
So, a songfor TValsh and his Line that starred The st;enuous sea~on through, A cheer for each taclcle .and end and guard TVho fought for the Gold and Blue! Here's to Kizer and 1Veibel., to Hunsinger, "Rip," . To Collins and.Bach, in fine! ·Now, all together., a big "Hip~ I-Iip., Hzirrah!" for the 1ris1t Line. 
-ARTHUR BARRY•. 
THE PASSING SHOTV Ther.e will be stars ·who are still paradin" Out in front with the flare of fame., But Stuhldreher, Miller., Croroley and Layden Are playing their final game. 
Soon they rise and as soon are fadin", Others roill come from the laureled glen; But I •want to see nfiller and Crowle.lf and 
Layden Taldng that ball again. 
-GRANTLAND RICE. 



The 1922. Season 
GLENN CARBERRY· Captain. 
The Records 
Septe1nber 30 ______Notre Dame... .46; Kalan1azoo 0 October 7 ______________Notre D.ame .... 26; "St. Louis U ..~--0 October 14 __________Notre Dame.... 20; Purdue ----------0 October 21 __________Notre Dame.... 34; DePau'v ~-------7 October 28 __________Notre.·Dame....13; Georgia Tech 3 November 4__________N otre Dame.... 27; Indiana ·----------0 N oveniber 1L-----~-N otre Dame____ 0; Army ---~------·----0 November 18________N otre Dame....31; Butler ------------3 November 25________N otre Dame.....19; Carnegie Tech 0 November 30________N otre Dame____ 6; Nebraska ________14 
/ 
Total Number of Points Scored: Notre Da1ne, 222; Opponents, 27. 
_:... ---~~-··-·.:.._ __..;.._ .. ·.-.. ------~··-·--­
192.4 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 59 
The '22 Varsity 


CARBERRY 1\icNULTY COLLINS 1VfAYL VERGARA CROWLEY' Co.NNELL 
LoGAN GENE l\fuRPHY FLYNN HuNSINGER 
Officers 
KNUTE K. Roci{NE ----------------------------Head Coach RoGER KILEY --------------------------------Assistant Coach ·GLENN CARBERRY ············--------------·······.····-Captain 
HARVEY. BROWN •...•.••....................•.•• Captain-elect En\vARD LENNON ••.•••.............•.... Student Manager 
Personnel 
LmB BRoWN OBERST DEGREE En :MILLER ·KIZER STANGE FLINN 
CoTToN 'VEinEL :MAHER DoN :MILLER CERNEY LIVERGOOD 
The Reserves 
Roux CooK GRIFFIN JERRY l\fILLER CouGHLIN Voss· :MIXSON REESE :MILBAUER HARl\ION REGAN .,VALSH 
STUHLDREHER 
THOMAS 
LAYDEN 
BERGMAN 
CASTNER 
FELTES ENRIGHT KANE Til\1 l\fURPHY 
r~ ..-­

f<~~l.f~~:;:.:.:.:.C.::.: ~--:.-:;_~~~:"::.~~~:==·.:· 
':""':.. ' 
.\.~,/ .. :I 
1-'lii 
·Page 60 . 1924 FOOTBALL REVJEW 
Great Write_~ Ups of 1924 

GRANTLAND RICE 
(New Yorl~ Tim-es.) 
POLO GROUNDS, New York, October 18, 
1924.-0utlined against a blue, g~ay October. 
sky the Four Horsemen rode agam. 
In dramatic lore they are known as fam­
ine pestilence, destruction and death. These 
are' only aliases. Their real names are: 
Stuhldreher, Miller, Crowley and Layden. 
They formed the crest of the South Bend 
cyclone before which another fighting Army 
team was swept over the precipice at the Polo 
Grounds this afternoon as 55,000 spectators 
peered down upon the bewildering panorama 
spread out upon the green plain below. 
A cyclone can't be snared. It may be sur­rounded but s.omewhere it breaks through to keep on going. When the cyclone starts from South Bend where the candle lights still gleam through the Indiana sycamores those in the way must take to the storm cellars at top speed. The cyclone struck again as Notre ·Dame beat the Army 13 to 7 with a set of backfield stars that ripped and rushed through a strong Army defense with more speed and 
power than the walTing Cade.ts could meet. 
Notre Dame won its eighth game in eleven 
starts through the driving power of one of the 
greatest backfields that ever churned up the 
turf of any gridiron in any football ag.e. 
Brilliant backfields may come and go but m 
Stuhldreher, Miller, Crowley and Layden, 
covered by a fast and charging line, Notre 
Dame can take its place in front of the field. 
Coach McEwan sent one of his finest teams 
into action, an· aggressive organization that 
fought to the last play around the first rim of 
darkness, but when Rockne rushed his four 
horsemen to the track they rode down every­
thing in sight. . 
It was in that 1400 gray clad cadets 
pleaded for the ·Army line to hold. The Army 
line was giving all it had but when a tank 
tears in with the speed of a motorcycle, what 
chance had flesh and blood to hold? The Army 
had its share of stars in action, such stars 
as Garbisch, Farwick, Wilson, Wood, Elinger 
and many others, but they were up against 
four whirlwind backs who picked up top 
speed from the first . step as they swept 
through scant openings to slip on by the sec­
ondary defense. The Army had great backs 
in Wilson and Wood, but the Army had no 
such quartet who seemed to carry the mixed 'blood of the tiger and the antelope. 
Rockne's light .and tottering line was just 
about as· tottering as the Rock of Gibraltar. 
It was something more than a match for the 
Army's great se.t of forwards who had earned 
their fame before, yet it was not until the 
second period that the first big thrill of the 
afternoon set the great crowd into a cheer­
ing whirl. and brought about the 'vild flutter 
of flags that are thrown to the· wind in ex­
citing moments. At the game's start, Rockne 
sent in almost entirely the second string cast. 
The Army got the jump and began to play most of the football. It was the Army at­tack that made three first downs before No­tre Dame had caught its stride. 
The South Bend cyclone .opened like a zephyr and then, in the wake of a sudden cheer, out r.ushed Stuhldreher, Miller, Crow­ley and LaydenJ the four star backs :vho helped best the Army a year ago. Thmgs were to be a trifle different now. . After a short opening flurry in the second period the cloud in the west at this point was no larger than a football. There was no sign of a tor­nado starting, but it happened to be at just this spot that Stuhldreher decided to put on his attack and begin the long and dusky hike. 
On the .first play the fleet Crowley peeled off 15 yards and the cloud from the west was now beginning to show signs· of lightning a~d thunder. The fleet, powerful Layden got six yards more and then Don Miller added 10. A forward pass from Stuhldreher to Crowl~y 'added 12 yards and a moment later Don Mil­ler -ran 20 yards around the Army's right wing. He was on his way to glory when Wilson, hurtling across the .right of way, nailed him on the_10 yard line and threw him out of bounds. · 
Crowley, Miller and Layden-Miller, Lay­den and Crowley-one or the other, ripping and crashing through as the Army defense threw everything it _had in the way to stop this wild charge that had no\y come 70 yards. Crowley and L~yden added five yards more and then'on a split play Layden went 10 yards across the line as if he had just been fired from the black mouth of a Howitzer. 
Speed Beat West Point. 

It was speed that beat the Army, speed plus interference. And when a back such as Harry Wilson finds few chances to get started you figure upon the defensive strength that is barricading the road. Wilson is one of 'the hardest backs in the game to suppress, but he found few chances yesterday to show his broken field ability. You can't run through. a broken field until you get there. / 
One strong feature of the Army play was its head long battle against heavy odds. Even when Notre Dame had scored two touch­downs and was well on its way to a third, the army fought on with fine spirit, until the touchdown chance came at last, and when this chance came in the fourth quarter coach Mc­Ewan had the play ready for the final march across the line. • 
The Army has a better team than it had last year. so· has Notre Dame. We doubt that any team in the country could have beaten Rockne's yesterday afternoon, east or west. It was a great football team billiantly directed, a team of speed, power and team play. The Army has no cause for gloom over its showing. It played first . class football against more speed than it could match. 
Those who have tackled a cyclone can un­derstand. 
·'·\: 

... : . . . ~' ·. . , ·. . ·..· ·. . :..\ • . .· . . . . . ' . . . . . . i . . . , ... ' '; ~; .·,~..............~.."-~'-§' ·;;:;;..:!./ ·. 
~ '..'' •. 'A~J"" .... .,., :4 ' ",".._. • • "r ';..',... ~., • • ~-~""l' < .. .:-,~-..·•~,....-~.l/'',>. ! H"~~ \!__,.,. '•r",~ "'~"~"' • ""',., ·~"; '/'"'~·':'"."' ~· t"' ~ ,' ~_.. '', •"':"• ~· • ·~
t ,_-.-Jf ,-• <r 
1924 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 61 


GEORGE TREVOR 

· ·(Staff Corresponde?~t of Broolclyn 
. Eagle.J 

PRINCETON, ·N:-J:,-Oct; 25 . ..;..;...Don't ever laugh again at the movie magnate who .re­fused to accept "The Hunchback .of Notre · Dame" for production because he thought ­the public was tired of football stories. After watching Crowley, Miller ·.and Layden _do their stuff in the Palmer Memorial Stadium this afternoon, no one need wonder that Vic­tor Hugo has been more or less lost in the· shuffle. 
The halfbacks of. Notre Dame ran riot in defeating the mediocre looking Princeton· by the score of 12-0, a tally_ whi_ch by no means represents the · overwhelming superiority of the Westerners. Rockne's Rockets-roamed like wraiths over· the .cross-barred field to pile up the staggering totals·of 20 first downs·· by rushing, for an aggregate of 350 yards. ~are statistics make dry reading, but one Simply must understand the figures in order · to appreciate the complete ascendency ob­tained by the gentlemen from Indiana. 
Only a .crushing series of penalties and a · distressing succession of fumbles prevented · Notre Dame from rolling~~ up ·four touch­~owns instead of two. Despite the mislead­Ing score, Princeton was never in the run­ning. Until Weekes came in at halfback, the · Tiger offensive was a pathetic thing to con­template, the plays being smothere·d · at the · goal .line with uniform regularity. . · 
Prmceton employed the Nebraska defense against Rockne's lightning sweeps and slants, the tackles playing extrem.ely wide after the fashion taught by Coach Fred Dawson. This . defense, far more intelligently conceived than • that shown by the Army, proved futile in the face of the cyclonic speed unleashed by Harry Stuhldreher, the master mind of the· Notre Dame_ eleven. .As well try to halt a Kansas cyclone as to ·sfem the blue wave from Notre· Dame which breaks with thrashing violence on the luckless defensive ends and tackles. 
Wo~ked Hop-Shift Line ~ Machine. . .That neatl¥' .timed hop-sh_ift was working With the precisiOn of a turbme engine. The four Notre Dame hacks, aligned in. box for­mation, timed their jump to a nicety. As the ball was. passed, they halted with a click · for. just the fraction of a second called for by the r?les. Then the interferers· leaped ahead, clearmg out the Tiger defenders as a forest of fire licks up dry underbrush. Beside tha take-out man heading the tandem, .Rockne threw a roving guard against Princeton's loose tackle. In a compact cluster, the Notre Dame hacks swept around the Tiger ends or cut back viciously through tackle, interferers. mopping up the secondaries as the Yanks once mopped up the German "pill boxes." It was fascinat­ing to sit high up in the towering press box and watch Stuhldreher manipulate his men a~ Capablanca moves his pawns. Now it is Elmer Layden, the human mole, on a bullet like plunge through the heart of the brawny Tiger line. Layden who skims 
so close to the turf that one expects to see his neck· snapped off, Layden who keeps churn­ing ahead with three Princeton tacklers draped on his back, Layden who leans so far . f¢rward that he seems to be nose diving in­
stead of running. 
. Each of the Backs Shows His Worth. Now it is Don Miller's turn, Miller 'vith' t}J.e speed of the antelope and. the elusiveness of the serpent) .. Miller who sneaks. his way through would.-be tacklers, twisting his hips m•;ay .from.th~Ir d~sperate lunges, back jump-· mg and writhmg hke a hulahula dancer under-the .influence of rock brandy. · · · Now it is Jim Crowley's chance, Crowley the whirling dervish, Crowley the fighter who. literally claws his way' through the hearf. of the melee; Crowley who deliberately offers a tackler his foot and then 'vithdraws it· Crowley.who refuses to be stopped everi whe~ three pmrs of orange-striped arms are clutch­ing his blue jersey. · · Verily here is the mythical all-American backfield translated into reality; the. dream of a Walter Camp come true. No wonder Rockne pops up and down on the side-lines as he sees his outriders in .the blue drifting ghost-like through the crumbling orange wall; no won­der, Capt. Adam Walsh forgets the pain in his bandaged hands as he leans forward from his seat on the bench, his face· tense with emotion; no wonder the thousands of loyal Catholic rooters. massed in the west stand wave their azure-blue banners and ·shriek hys~er_ica:lly. Thi~ is a great.team, gentlemen· an mvest~en~ of beautiful precision., an out~ fit· that hits hke the hammer of Thor a bal­anced blend of power and deceptior: force and finesse; ' a typical Rockne team. a~d ipso facto one of the greatest.elevens of the mod­ern era. 
Plays Same Trick He Did With Army. Rockne sprang a foxy trick on th~ brawny Princeton eleven right at the start of ·the game. He took a chance which almost cost him dear. He gambled on his entire second team to halt Princeton for one· whole period, and the subs showed their beloved master that his faith was not misplaced. We have never before seim any coach start his entire second string in a supposedly major game~ Figuratively .speaking, it was a direct ship at Princeton's face. . It was ·a neat bit of psychology, for once Princeton found that the South Bend subs could stop her varsity com­bination, the ·Tigers· were seized ·with an in­feriority complex that settled the issue then and there. Rockne must have snickered up his sleeve as he ·sat on the bench and watched his subs play the Tiger regulars to a stand-· still. · Meanwhile the. Princeton players realized . that Notre Dame had a lethal charge of cor­dite, lyddite and T. N. T. bottled up on the sidelines in. the sinewy persons of Miller, Crowley and Layden. Sly fox that he is, Rockne knew that his three musketeers were chafing. under this enforced inactivity, that they were clamping at the bit, eager to be up and at 'em. 

l-
I·.>. I-~--;~~ .. 
I .. 
f: f 
I•··· 
~ :
! \·' ..
,.____ _ 
1:<
l . 
lI,:_· .
> 
[:·:~ 
I \. -·. 
I 
L

f. 

. ,'";....~ .,.;,,. 

. , . . 
~. 
Page~6~2~==============~1~9~~~4~F~0~0~7~B~A~LL==R=E==V=JE=UJ==============~========= 
Now It's Turn For the Regulars. as a Swiss-cheese has holes. The referee was unduly finicky and called "holding" and "off­
As the first quarter ended, the crowd was side" on almost every play.
treated to a unique sight. Rockne rose from his bench, gesturing with his right · ha.I:td· 
March Up Field for 80 Yards.
·with a concerted bound, the eleven Hoosier regulars tossed aside their blankets and raced The second half had barely started ere like whippets into the field, while the stadium Notre Dame unleashed the best sustained ad­
thundered its ovation. vance of the afternoon, carrying.. the ball from her own 20-yard line clear across the
"Here come the regulars," shouted from enemy goal. Unfortunately for .Notre Dame,a thousand Notre Dame throats. "\Vatch 'em this touchdown does not show m the sc~re,go." 
for the referee's eagle eye detected holdm$ 
As the sweat-smeared subs trooped off the on the play wherein Don Miller sneaked his field, Captain \Valsh personally slapped each way over the goal. man on the back and thanked him for ·his 
Elmer Layden was the hero of this superbvaliant effort. Now the fun began. It was 80-yard advance, at one time shootingchunky Stuhldreher who. started it by catch­through big holes for 17 yards. L~yden wasing the. Tiger punt and speeding 35 yards up ably assisted by Crowl~y and Mill~r, w~othe field. If you have seen a raindrop flit sneaked their way past Tiger tacklers m theirdown a window pane, now halting momen­own inimitable fashion.
tarily, now darting ahead, you can conjure up a mental picture of Stuhldreher's whirl­Notre Dame's second touchdown came at 
wind run. u!e start of the final period, after a 70-yard march. Yards meant nothing to th~ Indiana
Opening up his batteries, the Hoosier quar­typhoon. Layden, Crowley and Mille: t<?ok
ter sent Miller and Layden knifing through turns skirting the Tiger flanks or wrigglmgthe Tiger line until the 8-yard mark was through broad avenue in the line~ Crow­reached. A touchdown would have followed, ley's final stab for a touchdown was u"!lcan~y.
for Notre Dame is one team which does not At least four Princeton tacklers h1t himlose its punch when the goal line draws nigh, 
cleanly, but he twisted .and fought his wayhad not Layden fumbled the b~ll. The South 
through them all. Jim r~n '~ith knees ~~ngBend bullet . had actually broken clear 
high, twirling from the hips m a tantahzmgthrough the Tiger defense when the slippery fashion. Again Notre Dame's attempt atball popped ou~ of his hands. 
goal was blocked. 
Up the Field Again in Qu!ck Order. On the following kickoff the Hoosiers .as­tounded the critics by pulling the old flymg
A Tiger fell on the pigskin. F~oin be­wedge. It. didn't work very 'Yell, but it gavehind his goal line, Slagle punted to mid-field. 
old-timers a real thrill. Agam, the blue pa­That's supposed to be well out of danger, but rade started. This time Don Miller slippedwhen Notre Dame has the ball, any point past off tackle for a hair-raising dash of .35 yards.
mid-field is a scoring zone~ It took the rol­Don back-jumped his way past three Tigerlicking Irish exactly five plays once more to ·tacklers.
put those 50 yards behind them. A well con­cealed forward pass, Stuhldreher to Miller, Battered Layden Is Finally Stopped.lopped off some 20 yards. Then came a low 
One of the few: forward passes that Rock­plunge by Layden, the human mole, who bur­ne's men resorted to next carried the ballrowed through center like a swimmer execu­close to the goal. Discarding his flashy stuff,ting the crawl. Crowley completed the· job, 
Stuhldreher now used Layden as a battering ·fighting his way through five Tiger tacklers ram. Just before the goal line was reach~d
.to fall headlong across the line. 
Layden was knocked cold. He was still 
On this thrilling play, the hop-shift shook groggy as he regained his feet, but Stuhl­Crowley past the primary line of defense. dreher called on him for the final plunge not­He went the rest of the way on his own, withstanding. It was bad judgment. Layden
squirming, writhing, back jumping and shin­was so goofy he didn't know which way the ing like a pin-wheel. Jim is Irish and just goal lay. Princeton stopped him before. he naturally refused to listen to reason. Notre · could dive and took the ball on downs right
Dame's try for goal was blocked. Rockne on the goal line. seems to have overlooked the factor of ·pro­
As the gentle Jersey twilight enveloped
viding protection for his kicker. Still, under the players the whistle shrilled, ending thethe circumstances, we are inclined to forgive game. Princeton had waged a game but fu­him. He taught his boys everything but how tile fight against a team that knew more foot­to find the fourth demension. On this block­ball than the Tigers have ever known or willed kick, the Tiger guards pulled Notre Dame's ever know. As a coach Knute Rockne beginscenter forward on his face and let Prince­where most of the other mentors leave off.
ton's pivot man through. 
Beacons are burning along the banks ofJust before the half ended, Dignan of the: Wabash tonight, where the sycamoresPrinceton forgot to keep his fists in check, whisper beneath a pale Indiana moon. Rock­
and was immediately expelled for slugging, ne has scored his second "double." Once Notre Dame getting half the distance of the again he has taken ATmy and Princeton goal line. The game was as full of penalties within the space of 14 days. 

-·. 

192.4 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
Page 63 
WARREN '"· BnowN 
(Chicago Herald and Examiner.) 

If \Valter Camp thought the Illinois-Chica­go game was a sensational display of offen­sive stuff, he should have been at Forbes Field today. ·walter would have dropped his mous­tache in astonishment at the marvelous exe­cution of attacking plays by the Notre Dame team. 
In those two closing periods Notre Dame tried six forward passes and completed all, bringing the total to twelve out of'fifteen for the afternoon. They piled up fifteen first downs, for a total of twenty-six for ·the af­ternoon, to Tech's six. They gave what friends "Pop" Warner, late of Pittsburgh, had 
I· in the house, plenty to write to him about for reference on New Year's day at Pasadena. They pulled their string of victories for the season to ten without a defeat. They clinched their claim to the championship of
"·­
all the country east and south of· Nebraska. They demonstrated that they are as much at home on a snow-covered field in North Pole weather as on green turf, in nice early Oc­
tober climate. . 
Considerable aggregation, these Rockne Ramblers; from their fighting leader, Adam Walsh, who, injured repeatgdly in to-day's fray, stuck to his job until victory was abso­lute and certain, down to the lowliest of the third string men who came so fast, and so numerous, late in the game that they defied 
indentification. . 
When they piled off ·the field today, their uniforms streaked with mud and caked with m~sh~ snow, they se~t 32,000 Pittsburgherssh1vermg home, knowmg that they had seen the greatest of the great. . If there is any argument about it, "Pop" Warner, January 1, and Pasadena are not so very far off. 
They travel far, and they travel fast, these 
Horsemen. 



·:;;
·-:·&~ 
•.,., ... !

t::!!!!!I!.IIII!I!!!!!!!!~~~~~Z:::!::=:::==============:-·::·-::-:,:··=I=============:=---~-· Jtf;_
' 
-~ 

I 
t.. 
I 

t 
!. 
' 
!

Notre Dame, National : 
Cham.pions 
t

; . 
Go buck and check the record over. Here nrc a few figures that will help you: In eighteen yea:rs of Notre Dame football, (1906-192•1), 153 games played, 135 

.G 
won; 6 tied. . · 

/::·, 
In eighteen years, only seven rivals able to score victories. 

i­
f

Seven years, the Blue and Gold goal never crossed. '. 
' 
Since 1918: 17•13 points against 275 points for our opponents; 56 out of 63 games w·on; 3 tied. 
Si~ce 1918, Notre Dame's average score 27 2-3 against 4 1-3 for our opponents. 

:­
And for 1924? Nine games played. Nine games won. Not a ·game tied, not a game lost. That's the record up to January 1, 1925. National Champions. Now fill the lust score·binnk out for yourself: 
Notre Dame -~o,::::_~~7~---­
Leland Stanford'------_/_·0=-----­
;! 

Notre Dame, National Champions ,'.: 

1-. 
. I~ . 

...&CLAVE PRINTING co_,, SOUTH BEND 


..~ 
' r : ...~;,. -• T ._ n < • I ~ • , "-• ~ i • \ ' , t " • 
0 


:-.._ '. _-,. "...... ~"~·: _.;... 
·:·: _:.··] 
··-1 
-·l 
j 
--:~-l 
.I 
._, 
"1 
-4 









......--------------------------c---------­
\. 
Trusses, Beams, Lintels, Reinforcing Monorail Systems, Acetylene Welding Rods, Fire Escapes, Grills and Cutting and: Miscellaneous Tanks and Cranes Steel Work 
LUPTON STEEL SASH LUPTON STEEL BINS 
EDWARDS IRON WORKS 

Structural Steel and Iron 
SOUTH BEND~ INDIANA, US. A. 2025 South Main Street Phone Lincoln 741 7 

Pictures in this Review are by Elmore, News-­Times staff · 
.·.. photographer. 
For Your Toasted Sandwiches and W d'ffl~s stop at the 
. \ 
. ­
FAMOUS 'WAFFLE and TOASTED SAND­WICH SHOP 
213 N. Main St. South Bend 


Story of the Lombard game by Bert V. Dunne, ( Notre Dame student) who handles all Notre Dame sports for 


·.The 
News~Times 
Ourforce is 100% with N.D.· Actiuites Shoe RepairinQ, Hat Cl~aninQ, Shoe ShininQ . · ·Special Stand for Women 
Reasonable Pi-ices Exceptional Work 
Washington ShoeRepair Co. and .Boston Hatters 
116 West Washington Avenuo · 
-. '~When Notre·Dame goes· marching .down· the field'' · Just watch the jaunty jerseys the players wear. All·a_re manu· lactured and guaran· teed by O'Shea Knitting Mills D. C. O'Shea, Pres. · W. C. Kin~, Sec'y. J. B. O'Shea, Vice-Pres. Makers Athletic Knitted Wear for Every Sport 2414_ No_rth Sacramento Avenue CHICAGO, ILLINOIS PHONE ALBANY 5011  .  


OFFICIAL 




1925 Football Review 
K. K. Rockne Clem Crowe · Jos. McNamara 
University·of 
Notre Dame 

I i 
Editors 
FRANCIS E. CODY JOHN A. PURCELL FRANK J. MASTERSON 
CONTRIBUTORS 
Wm. E. Carter Georqe Schill Andlj Slciqh Jerrlj Haljes Jas. Crusinbern; Dick Novak 
W. W. Brown R. Wentworth . Wm. f?oolerj Harrlj Elmore 


THR'EE REASONS--­
why it is a safe investment of reliability· that you should give us ihat printing order 
l. . Because every job in the shop from any customer whatsoever, receives our personal supervision from 
.the ·time it is entered on our books until you sign the delivery slip. 
2. 
Because· when we promise a date of delivery we concentrate the entire force to fulfill that promise~ 

3. 
Because our equipment is complete and modern and is operated on the basic foundation of good judg­ment-that intangible requisite of securing custom­ers and retaining them, and the delivery of a very fine printed product. 



McClaVe Printing Co. 
4 35 East LaSalle Avenue Lincoln 1570 
An· Invitation to Notre, Da!Tle Students 
When in the "Bend" \Y'e cor.. dially invite you to make the Knights of Columbus "your" headquarters. 
All Kinds of Amusements 
POOL-BILLIARDS GYMNASIUM SHOWER BATHS 
"Mike" will do his best to entertain you 

Knights of Columbus Home 
South Bend, Indiana 


K. K. RocKNE 
F o o t b a ll R e v i e w o f . 1 g· 2 5 
Tribute from Our Leaders 
\Vhat is success? To some minds, anodyned by too many victories, even a close score is failure. Other minds, rendered soft and non-combatant by the. many refine­ments of civilization, holding opponents to a low score means success. From my point of view success materially probably lies some,vhat between these two extremes. 
A series of events occuring o-\rer. a number of years are harided down from student to student and become traditions. Heroic individual efforts, deeds of sacri­_fice, unselfish denial, inspiring team play: stubborn defensive stands where a team plays until eX~lausted, are never forgotten but are handed down by Written story and -word of mouth until they become a standard. A standard by which every .year we gauge. the merits of the present te1;1m. 
No one who saw the thrilling come-back at l\Iinnesota aft~r the disastrous Army game: no ~me who saw the painstaking offense slipping over the slick Georgia red 
lclay, the heart breaking fail~re to score in the rain against Penn State, the supet'b defense against Carnegie Tech and, most hair-raising of all, the superb come-back against Northwestern. in the second half, can help but say that this year's team 
j
has lived up to every one of our fine traditions. And, according to every common sense definition, tliis season ha? been a distinct success. The team has played to­
1 
gether wonderfully as a unit. Not a discord has ever arisen to mar the perfect har­mony of feeling. In every game·I am convinced that the team did absol~1tely all that any one has any right· to ask any·group of boys to accomplish. The.' Nebraska game was lost in the schedul~ making. It is humanly impossible for any group of boys between the ages of eighteen and. twenty-two, after a terrific schedule, to play two games in five days. 
Every;;Notre Dame inan· should feel justly proud of the team that has repre­sented tl1e.University of Notre·-Dame in the Fall of 1925. 
K. K. Roci\:NE. 
·Somewhere in these United States· there may be a better football team than Notre Dame but nowhere in the world is tliere a team of fighters such as I had the honor o~ leading this_ fall.' Anyone who had the pleasure of seeing the Northwestern game will attest to the ver[!city of this statem.ent. 
I 
:Many thought the Army game this year, ,.V_hich ended so disastrously for us, I i.vas the beginning of the end, but instead, it was only the beginning of brighter days. :Minnesota and Georgia Tech surely showed what a tonic defeat can be. Penn State and Carnegie Tech gave us plenty of opposition but the boys were not 
I
~
to be denied. Then came Northwestern in the last home game on Cartier Field, the I 
grid_iron ,\rhere so many old N. D. boys gave the best that was in them. The Purple 
l I 
outplayed and out-lucked us in the first half to the tune of len big points and then what followed will be tradition for N. D. teams of the future. How those boys rolled up tw·o touchdowns in short order was written idelibly 
~ 
on the soil of Cartier Field. They proved beyond the shadow of a doubt that they were worthy sons of the Blue and Gold. \Vhat a fitting tribute they were paying to the best coach in the land who sat watching the many weary hours of his efforts bearing fruit. To my successors, the two Reds, I wish the best of luck for they are 
j
leading the finest set of men that ever trod the turf of Cartier Field. CLEl\1 CROWE 
[6] 

CAPT. CLEM CROWE 
I 
l 
---1 
t· 
I r 
1 
Football Review of 1925 
En-WARDS 
REARDON 
ENR.IGHT 
FLANAGAN O'BovLE \VALLACE 
FREDERiCKS RoAcH ScHARER BoLAND 
J ,'· 
1925· Squad Officers and Personnel 
K. K.. RocKNE, Coach 
H. ANDERSON) Assistant Coach ToM Lnin, Assistant ·Coach GEORGE KEoGAN, F1·eshnzan· Coach. V\TILBUR EAToN, Assistant Freshnzan Coach CLEM CRowE, Captain 
McNALLY WALSH PoLISKY DAHMAN \VHITE HoGAN CRovvE, E. ·vVYNNE 
.poARN PARISIEN McMA:NMoN. MAXWELL 
: ... 
McMuLLAN BoERINGER PRELL! SMITH, R.' ConY BENDA HANOUSEK CouGHLIN 

. ;· '"" .. ...;:· 
[9] 
RILEY 
SMITH, J. 
MAYER MARELLI VoEDISCH RIGALI McCABE 
'MuRRIN 
LEPPIG 
WHELAN 
.I 
i 

The Four Horsemen 

Their Successors 
Football Review o.f 19925 

Season's Record 
Notre Dame___ :______________________________ 41 'Baylor· -------------------·------· _··----------0 Notre Dame.·-------------------~-------------69 Lombard ____________ :___________________ _;_____ 0 
Notre Dame·---------------------------------19 Beloit ------------------------------------------3 · Notre· Dame_____________ -------~-------------0 Army -------------------------------~--~.-------2 7 Notre Dame.~-------· ··----------------------19 Miti.nesota --------~----------~~-------------7 Notre Dame-------------.---------------~------13 · Geo~gia:· Tech ----------------------------,---0 Notre Dame~---------------------------------0 Penn State ----------------------------------0 Notre Dame ...... ------------------------~---26 _c;:arnegie Tech ------~--------:----~-------0 Nott~e Dame~ ..-: ..... : .......... : ........... ~.13 Northwestern ........:......·--~-------------1 0 Notre Dame ... ~----------------~-------------· 0 Nebraska · -------------------------------------17 \7\lon ----------------------------7 Tied --------------------------1 Lost ________ _-_________________ 2 

i926 Schedule 
Oct. 2-Beloit ·---------------~---·----------at. .. : ....... ~-~-------------------------Notre. Dame Oct. 9-Minnesota · -~---~----~-------~----~ t-------~-------:·---------------~---Minneapolis Oet. 16-·Penn State ----------~--------·---at ___________________ ~-~~----~----------Notre Dame Oct. 23-·Northwestern ......... ---.----:at~-------~~---------------------------~----Evanston Oct. 30-.Georgia ·Tech ······-------------at___________________ ~-----·-···-··---~-Notre Dame Npv. 6-Indiana ------.----------------------at................................ : ..... Notre Dame· 
Nov. 13-Army --------------········--------at________________________________________ New York Nov. ZO-Drake ----~~------------------------at.~--------------·--------~-----~-------D-es Moines Nov. 27-Carnegie Tech ________________ at~--------~---------~-~--------------------Pittsburg Dec. 4-Sb. California _; __ ............at.......... , .. : ....... ···.············ LC?s Angeles 
. l 
[11] 
.. 

F. o o t b a ll R e v i e w of 1 9 2 5 

I I l
Rock's Assistants 
I 
Rockne is heralded as the wonder co:1ch 
I 
VI
-and so he is-but he is relieved of much worry and work with such assistants as Tom Lieb and Hunk Anderson. Hunk and Tom 
I 
ably aid the chief in developing the forward . ! Iwall, and they should not be o\rcrlooked. 
Hunk· was a member of the famous '2 t' 
l
team and also played on the '20 team with 
l
Gipp. He is one of the best guards in the " 
i game and is a member of the Chicago Bears. ii 
i
Hunk is a good coach and a true N._ D. man. f 
Tom will always be remembcredas one of . 
~I 
N. D.'s great tackles. He is also· the best 
. Hartley "Hunk" Anderson i discus thrower in the country and was :i 1 · 
member of the 192,.1< Olympic team. Lieb 'vas 
I 
a whole-hearted coach-he knows the game !. and kno-\vs how to teach it. There. isn't a tac-
I
kle on the Notre Dame team that would not do his utmost for Tom. 'Vc hope Tom and Hunk will be with us for many yearJ to 
I
come. 
I George Keogan spends all his ~imc not '!• 
i
taken up by basketball and baseball tutoring l j the Frosh, making future varsity stars. His 
I 
efforts arc untiring and he scouts opponents, 
-I 
comes back and drills his Freshman team to oppose the varsity and teaches them forma­
l 
tions of coming opponents.~ George is well i liked and is valuable in preparing the young-· ---l 
I I 
cr boys for Rock's tutelage. 
I 
'Vilbur Eaton, an end on last year's na­I 
I 
tional champions, aids Keogan with coaching 
i 
the Frosh and scouting for Rockne. He was 
·J 
expected to be eligible for competition this 
I 
year but ~ailed to qualify and thus graduated . r to Keogan's staff. 'Vilbur is a lawyer and the bar will benefit if· Eaton can talk like he can ~ 
-teach or play football. I 
I 
I I 
[12] 
I 

·i ! 
I
!' 
I 
I 
George KEogan 


THE LEADERS OF THE 1925 TEAM 
Football Rev.iew of 19f25 



THE TEAM 
Captain Clem Crowe 
Lafayette, Indiana 
Gold and Blue and Clem Crowe, hand in. hand down the "tough days" of the 1925 season, planning, ever alert, fighting, never com­plaining, giving everything that he had-that was Clem, a typical Notre Dame captain. At left end Captain Crowe put up one of the pluckiest fights that a Notre Dame man has ever carried on. Early in the season Clem was badly injured; a Lombard boy made a muss of the muscles and three lower ribs in his back, all of which ap­parently didn't bother Clem a bit; he was finally forced t9 withdraw from play in the Penn State game. \Ve all most assuredly wish we had had him in the Nebraska game-not discrediting "Ike" Voedisch's fine demonstrations at that post, but Clem's world of experience certainly would have helped. When a man attains the honor of captaining Notre Dame's football team he needs no further recommendation. You sure filled the bill, Captain Crowe, and Notre Dame· is indebted to you. 
Eugen~ "Red" Edwards Weston, West Vir~inia · 
"Gentleman Gene," that easy-going, neyer fussed individual who unhesitatingly climbed into the saddle left vacant by last year's All-American Quarterback, Harry Sthuldreher, put the spurs to his horse and was away in a cloud of glory~ Taking the reins from the 
· renowned Harry's hands, Edwards "called" ten games of the best possible football. The writer had occasion to sit near Coach Rockne· during seven of those ten games and when the Notre Dame club got into a tight hole "Red" unfailingly selected the play that brought a smile of satisfaction to the face of the world's craftiest coach. Gene will have a wonderful year next f·all. He is· a punter of no mediocre quality; an accurate passer, a good ball canier, a good interferer and second to none when it comes to calling the: right play at the right time. All of you folks just keep your eye on Edwards next Fall. He's going. to be right up there at the top when ·the "all teams" are picked. 


Thomas "Red" Hearden 
Green Bay, Wisconsin 
Shades of "Jimmy" Crowley! Loads and· loads of halfbacks run and pass their way to recognition. Tom Rearden has done more than. run his way into thousands of . hem·ts. Some of his ancestors certainly must have been subway guards for that boy sure can block. Notre Dame would have gained far fewer yards this season if Tom hadn't been out there in the interference· knock­ing the defense's end for a series of loops. A small body, chucked full of a million dollars .worth of fight and cleverness is all that Tom has to offer the Hon. Mr. Rockne or the 1926 campaign. This is Rearden's second season with the Rockmen and it looks to the sages as tho he's going to be one of the biggest rackets that "Rock" will have next Fall. Modern football fans are beginning to give the credit deserved to .the men who get out there and knock the de­fense down so that the man with the ball can get away. "Red" Rearden certainly has got a lot of credit coming to him for his work this season. 
[14] 
Football Review of 1925 
Christopher "Chris" Flanagan Port Arthur, Texas 
The boy with the Gulf Coast tenor, the best pair of shoulders I've ever seen, the big smile and the makings of the best halfback that the world has ever known. When "Red" Grange was a Sophomore down at Illinois he didn't get a bit more recognition than "Chris" has in his first year of competition here at Notre Dame. Mentioning the fact that he was high point man in the Mid-west this season only begins to tell about this lad from Texas. He has just gotten started-everything lies before· him, and if he has the least bit of luck, just mark my words that by the time he has played his last game of collegiate football he will be up there in the Football Hall of Fame sitting right along side of Grange, 'Vilson, Crowley, Mahan, Gipp, Heston, Coy and the rest. It's going to take the best bullfighter known to stop this "longhorn." "Chris" was chosen by several critics when they selected their All-western teams. 


Reginald "Rex" Enright 
Rockford, Illinois 
Snowplows, ti·actors and the like take seats in the rear of the house. "Rex" Enright, playing his final year of collegiate football at Notre Dame, filled the heart of his coach with pride, tickled the student body to pieces, gave the .w. k. football ·public their money's worth and added another name to the long list of Notre Dame heroes. Enright's plunging and defensive work caught the eye of every football expert that saw him perform, arid each was highly complimentary of his form and consistency. In the Nebraska game, which Notre Dame lost 17-0, Enright failed to gain just two tim.es·in his attempts at the "Husker" line. Student opinion· places Rex in a class with Livergood, Layden and Castner when it comes to straight line bucks and cross bucks.. "Nice goin', Rex, old boy." Enright was the only Notre Dame man whom Rockne gave a place on his Ail-western mythical eleven. · 
I 
t 1 John Wallace 
I 
! Gary, Indiana 
l 
I Crowe and 'Vallace, Hoosiers and ends. This fast stepping . l running mate of Capt. Crowe's played tackle last year. Any good I coach will admit that a man who can play tackle one year and be 
shifted to end the next and master end_:-play as John 'Vallace has in
~ 
that short space of time is one boy who hasn't any leather.nickels _in. his pockets. 'Vallace is one of those big rangy fellows, fast and al­t ways on the alert. He· has the mean~st pair of hands since Eddie An­derson, and there isn't a tackle he has met this year who will forget
~ 
1. his afternoon across the line of scrimmage from Big John. A worthy successor to Eddie Hunsinger, Gene Mayl and Roger Kiley. John leaves a good record behind him. 
[15] 

Football Re7)iew of 1925 

Arthur "Bud" Boeringer St. Paul, Minnesota( 
If you want to know who was the scrapin'est, talking'est man on the Notre Dame club this year, mostly anyone whom you ask will tell you: "\Vhy, 'Bud' Boeringer, of course." "Bud" came to "Rock" from Joe Brandy's camp up at St. Thomas, in Minnesota, and he sure proved to be a Godsend. Last year "Bud" was the brains of George Koegan's Freshman outfit, but for some unknown reason he didn't -make much of a hit with local backers. That merely shows theh~ bad judgment, tho, and now lends all the more to "Bud's" almost flawless work in the center of the Irish line. A 
c. power on defense and the old can-opener himself when it comes to the business of opening up holes for Enright, Bdwards and Co. "Bud" isn't through with football yet and we're glad of it. 
Joseph "Joe" Boland Philadelphia. Penna. 
Here's a boy about whom I h.esitate to launch forth on his ability as a football player. As many another man has said: "He's too smart for me." ·well, anyway, Joe is one of the best linemen almost any place. \Vhen "Rock" calls his va·rsity around him next fall Boland will be the best left tackle in sight. Tipping the scales at 220 and getting down under punts generally don't go .hand in hand, but they do in Joe's case. Big, fast and "slick as a whistle" 
-sizes him up only fairly well. His work resembles that of "Fat" Henry, All-American from Washington and Jefferson in 1919, his physical makeup is somewhat the same, and I wouldn't be a bit surprised if he made a better mark in football than .Henry did. I hope you do, Joe. 


John "Stonewall" M'Manmon 
Lowell, Massachusetts 
As John \Vallace would say: "He's· the best tackle in the dioceses." Lots of times you'll see some athlete who impresses you as a· real man. That's 1\fcManmon. "Big Jawn" has just wound up his second year under Rockne and he's smarter, faster and better than ever. He and Joe Boland certainly make a pair that are hard to beat. McManmon is going to cut apretty.figure between the end of September and Thanksgiving of 1926. The proteges of "Wally" Steffan and Glen Thistlewaite can't say that "Big Jawn" is any dub without giving evidence of a whole flock of very violent blushes. "Doc" Spears' "Gophers" will also stand up and shout to the world t~at McManmon is a bear, if they're only fair about it. "Rock's" gomg to say. to "Big Jawn" some of these days: "What a fine stone wall you turned out to be, McManmon." 
[16] 
Football Review of 1925 
Richard "Dick" Hanousek 
Anti~o, Wisconsin 
"Yohnnie Yonson came down to Soud Bend to blay fout ball. He vas one tough bohunk, dis boy from de Nort \Vouds." The tim­ber lands, like the Sunny South, the Golden \Vest and the Busy East has sent the South Bend school representatives. Dick is a contribution to the Irish line from \Visconsin. Playing his final year part time at full back and part time at guard somewhat handi­capped this youngster, nevertheless he acquitted himself nobly at both posts. "Punishment" is Dick's middle name and no odds are 
.too great for him. to try to overcome. Old timers see traces of 
"Hunk" Anderson in Dick and the versatility which· he has dis­
played this fall cannot go unnoticed or unrewarded. 


John "Clipper" Smith 
Hartford, Conn. 
If Hanousek were "Moon Mullins" "Clipper" Smith would be the kid brother "K. 0." Just like two peas, the two of them, only John is a newcomer in Irish lineups. No Notre Dame guard ever displayed such genuine ability in his first year on the Varsity, and the Lord alone knows what he will be doing by the time he is ready to graduate from football. "Clipper" is still smaller than Capt. Harvey Brown of the 1923 squad, and almost identically the 
.same type. He was held up quite a bit this Fall by a dislocated shoulder, all of which detracted from his season's record noticeably. Rockne can do wonders with a boy who has the brains and pure unadulterated "guts" that John Smith has. John is doing all he can to keep up the standards set by the famous "Mawrie" Smith. 
1­
John "Ike" V oedisch 
r South Bend, Indiana 
Another new face in the Irish camp, and something that thel neighbors brought in. Sixteen different committees are going right over to "Ike's" place on Portage and thank the neighbors, f01~ they sure .brought something nice, plenty nice. Like "Clipper" Smith, 
"Ike" has shown a wealth of stuff in his puppy days of Notre Dame
I football. \Vhen Capt. Clem Crowe was injured Voedisch :was first in line and all .that he needed was a chance to show his stuff, which he did, much to the enjoyment of South Benders as well as the Notre Dame boys. A third party was pleased, if we know anything about Knute K. Rockne. Ike's going to be a. big leaguei· around· here some day soon, as he has got two years to play. 
[17] 

Football Review of 1925 

John "Big John" M'Mullen 
Chicago, Illinois 
The essence of "the Fightin' Irish spirit" simply sticks out all over "Mac". Although laid up for some time with a bad sh'oulder this fall "Mac" got in on several occasions and went so far as to get one or two mighty 'good tumbles from the esteemed ·walter Eckersall. John McMullen's absence is going to be felt very much next Fall, and it will be with difficulty that Rockne will be able to lay hands on another tackle like John to alternate with Joe Boland in the left side of the Irish forward wall. ·when it comes to "sockin' 'em and rockin' 'em," "Big John" was the boy who qualified. 
Frank "Horse" Mayer 
Glencoe, Minn. 
Frank has played good ball in this his last year at Notre Dame. He worked hard, never quite knew when to· stop · fighting, and helped mightily towards filling the gap which was left vacant when Noble .Kizer graduated last year. Everyone was glad to see ·Mayer come through in this manner and down deep in his heart he thinks more of the monogram that he has won than he.does of Minnesota. A bad knee didn't help him any during the season and it is ·only fair to him that such a handicap be mentioned to the public. 


John "Bull" Polisky · -·I 
Bellaire, Ohio 
I just wonder what "Rock" is going to do to keep Flanagan, IJohn Smith, "Ike" Voedisch and this Polisky lad from tearing the _, football world to pieces about the beginning of the 1927 season? "Bull" is another Sophomore in the Irish ranks and is putting in i a bid for top honors which is second to none. He's Joe Boland's 
!
type and has shown an improvement in his first time out that has caused quite a lot of comment. He's got the almightiest knack of getting thru' the offensive line and spilling things for a general 
·loss that a first year man has shown for a long time. You folks who saw the Notre Dame-Princeton game last year will remember how Joe Boland broke things up-well, that's the way John "Bull" Polisky has been getting along. 
[18] 
Football Review of 1925 
John "Cactus'' Roach Appleton, Wisconsin 
"Cactus" is a player and a punter who simply made things rosy under conditions that were in the least bit of a way unfavor­able, and no mean hand when it came to ·hurling the pigskin into the outstreched hands of a team-mate. It took men like Crowley and Miller to keep Roach out of the first line-up ·last Fall and anyone who is sane will not hold that against John. One occasion which ·I remember very well occurred last Fall when Notre Dame put the "Badgers" down. John got loose on an end run and there wasn't a man on the ·wisconsin outfit that didn't get a good healthy look at the heels of the flying Roach. "Cactus" will re­turn for his last year under "Rock." 


Francis "Lew"' Cody 
LaSalle, Ill. 
"Lew" made just one mistake in his collegiate career-he donned Varsity mole-skins two years too late; his first year with the "Fightin' Irish" was his last, and "Rock" therefore lost the services of one terribly smart boy. "Lew" had the Inter-hall halfback's cornered for ·three· years and he nearly did the same thing \vhen he moved up to Varsity competition. "Lew" can do more "cutting" than a Pittsburgh Tong war, and with about as disasterous results to the foe. It's a shame that "Rock" can't use Enright and Cody next year. They'd certainly boost "N. D. Common" and "Preferred" quite a few tens of points. 
Elmer "E" Wynne Oronoque, Kan. 
Elmer's football. days have been just like the days of .his world-wide heralded brother, "Chet," who gave Notre Dame op­
. ponents various and assorted fits in 1920 and 1921. He started slow and is finishing up like a house afire. I'd like to have a few minutes with the sports writer who has been riding Elmer about fumbling; said individual sui·e would get a nice ·piece of my mind. It ·will be seen next Fall that "E" Wynne will be one of the best running and plunging fullbacks in the country, and I don't mean perhaps. This lad has had plenty of competition in the last two years. For example, Layden, Livergood and Cerney last year and Enright this year, but you just watch him hit the holes in the oncoming season and if he doesn't cut "Elmer Wynne" deep in the sod of Cartier Field, Yankee Stadium, Forbes Field and other lots that Notre Dame will play on, I don't know a thing about football. 

[19] 
., Football Review o·t 1925
""'t 
·! 
j 
,j } 


Raymond "Ray'' Marelli ·Rockford, Ill. 
Last year's wealth of mate1:ial kept "Ray" out of things quite a bit, but he,has had a chance this Fall and has done exceptionally well at guard in the Irish ranks. Graduation does not· take "Ray" away, and it's a good thing. Guard play is a tough piece of work to get down to a fine point, and an experienced head like "Ray" is going ·to .be appreciated when things start popping in 1926. "Ray" is a fellow-townsman of Rex Enright's, and like Rex, "Ray" has brought nothing but merit to Rockford. He's a big boy and n~akes a tough argument for any opponent. 

Richard "RedJ' Smith 
. Combined Locks, Wis: 
"Rough, tough, nasty and redheaded." Another Sophomore with two years to play. Holy smokes, what a vair "Red" and John Smith are· going to make. This fast-stepping guard is one of those old boys who's plumb full of fight, talk and smart· guard play, and if that crimson thatch of his is any ·omen of good ·luck he's all set for one peach of a caree-r in. football. '"Rock's" Smith Brothers, the Shaved Ones,· made quite a hit throughout the country this -last season and will bid strongly for the regular guard berths on the Fighting Irish squad for the next two years.· "Red"· nearly got a leg torn off up at Penn State and i_t took the combined efforts of Rockne, two trainers and a corps of student-managers to keep him off of the gridiron for the remainder (_)f the season. 


Harry O'Boyle. 
Des Moines, Iowa 
· ·. One of "Rock's" fleetest halfbacks: with an arm and ari eye to forward pass throwing, that are hard to beat. Harry's coming around in good shape and is going to be one whooping good half before he finishes up at Notre Dame. '\Vest High, from whence Harry comes may be justly proud of him for he is as perfect an athletic type as has been seen on practice and playing fields in years.. ·O'Boyle has a wonderful lot of speed, blocks fairly well, 
· and is a defensive ace of no mean· proportions. He has one more year· with "the grand young man of football" and we're· all looking for him to do 'a lot with Tom Rearden, "Chris'.' ·Flanagan, Elmer ·wynne and Gene Edwards next season. 
[20] 
F o o t ba ll R e v i e.w o f 1 9 f2 5 . 
1 
i 
Joseph "Flash" Prelli _ Brentwood, Calif.
I 
Several times this Fall an olive-skinned member of the Class
I 
of 1927 brought thom:ands to their feet, and six points for the
I 
·Irish side of the score board. It was a case of "here he comes­
i 
there he goes"-knees high, head back and feet hitting the ground 
1 
i i about every five yards:._FLASH-and a touchdown. Joe's one of the very fastest halfbacks· who has cavorted on Cartier Field since "Gus" Desch and there's a lot in store for him in the year to come. Joe is eligible for two more years of Varsity competition. 
! J 

l 
l 
I 
l:, 
Arthur "Count" Parisien 
I 
I 
Haverhill, Mass.
I : 
r Another exponent of speed and brains with an eye on "Red" ·l 
I 
Edward's job. ·when Rockne shifted "Darby" Scharer to halfback this Fall, the "Count" got in on the fun at the quarterback
! 
i ·position and acquitted himself in a very favorable maimer. Arthur gave the crowd a treat at· :Minnesota this fall when he scooped up a "Gopher" fumble on his own five-yai·d line and ripped off eighty yards before .he was brought down. '.I;his youngster shows a good
I 
.head and will make an· exceptional general before he is through.
I 
Parisien has ·two more years with the Rockne outfit.
l I 
! 
I 
t.I, Charles "Chile" Walsh. Hollywood, Calif. 
i 
·I· I "Chile" is a brother of the great Adam Walsh; who so success­I fully piloted the.· '24 .team to the National Championship. He is an 
i 
! end and the fact that he gained the coveted monogram in his first. year o.f competition speaks for his talent. ·when Capt. Crowe
4 
I 
I was forced out of the game because. of -injuries "Ike" Voedisch I 
I and "Chile" withstood the attacks on left end for the remainder of I the season-and .withstood them well. Left end candidates ·of '26 and '27 have a big obstacle to ·overcome in "Chile" now that he
J 
has gained a year of experience. He is a worthy \Valsh and we
i 
hope he equals his famous brother in his deeds on the gridiron f for the Gold and Blue. 
l 
I 

\ 
l. [21] 
I 
I 
j 
I 
Football R·eview of 1925. 


Joseph "Joe" Rigali 
OakPark, Illinois 
Good! Joe's going to be back with us ·again next year. I don't believe that a boy ever played gamer, harder football than Joe has. His work at end has· been more than a creditable exposition of fight, training and initiative. Many's the time we've seen Joe box and block the life out of a tackle who would weigh twice as much as he. That takes one awful lot of spunk and "guts", but that's ·the stuff that Rigali is made of. Anyone who bats Joe all over any lot, or just knocks him down a couple of times in an afternoon is going to know just how it's done, and it will take a mighty smart man to do that. Joe will be back with the Rocknes again when the show is opened up for 1926 arid I'll bet "Rock:s" glad of that. 
John '~Freddy" Fredericks Sa~inayv, Michi~an 
"Freddy" had "Bud" Boeringer and .Maxwell to look up to tJ:lis year at center, but when Maxwell was shifted to guard he stood ready as "Bud's" second and per­!. formed nobly. If Boeringer is unable to play. next year "Freddy"· will probably be
i: 
assigned the regular position made famous by Adam ·walsh. Just another Sophomorei! good for the '26 and '27 campaig~s. 
I' 
I'I 
I• 
I 
I 
.!: 
!·i THE SUBS. 
.1 
These men are real members of the Varsity and played with the regulars, but failed to earn a monogram. They work hard endeavoring to displace the first team members and would undoubtedly be stars at other colleges-only the keen compe­tition and more experienced men keep these fellows from emulating the deeds of famous predecessors. 
Jim :whelan and Ed Crowe, guards who earned the N. D. A: A. sweaters are seniors-and just failed ~o garner a regular monogram. "Chuck". Riley, the only other 
.member to gain the A. A. award, is a Junior who will be understudy for "Red" Edwards again next year. Bernie Coughlin, a halfback, is the only other Senior in the roll of the Subs who will be lost to next year's team, excepting Herb Eggert, who .deserves mention here. Herb was slated to be a regular guard this season after studying under John ·weibel in 1"924, ani:l gaining the A. A. award with the Cham­pionship squad, but a series of injuries early in the season so handicapped him he could not get started so he was added to the coaching staff by Rockne. It was a misfortune to the learn to lose Herb's service and to himself when he was cheated by fate from a m~jor monogram. 
Joe Benda and "Dog" White are ends who are eligible for. service· another · campaign. Hogan and Doarn are two big huskies who are battling for tackle berths and. should go up next season. McNally, Dahman, McCabe, .Collins prove the opinion of so many who cry that "Rock's" second stringers are as good as the first team. They will all be heard from before they. leave their moleskins to posterity. 
The Subs are responsible for the strength of the regulars because they force their more fortunate rivals to retain the Varsity ·positions. They afford competition to those who are above them, and are capable of filling places which may become weak or unoccupied through some mishap. · 
Just check these names fm:..:future reference a"nd you'll have occasion to exercise your memory ne~t Fall. 
[22] 
I
,. I 
II·. 
I 
I 
I 

il II 
II 
li 
l! 
ll 
I 
I 
I 
I 
:
i! . ji II 
j I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
•.:·· II: 
Football Review of 19~5 

Notre Dame, 41: Baylor, 0 

The eyes of the football world were focused upon Notre Dame. "'ould the "l\firacle l\Ian" live true to form and mould a football team worthy of the name Notre Dame around the relics of the \Vonder Team of 192•1·? Baylor was scheduled to inaugurate the football season on Cartier Field. The Bears from \Va.co had been Southwestern Conference Champions for the past two years :mel were said to have an organization that the great state of Texas could well be proud of. Out of the South they came-these Bears of Baylor-with the honor of Texas and the South to uphold. Back to \Vaco they straggled a day later-a puttered, bruised and tired lot of Southern youths. Everyone sighed a· sigh of ·relief. Rockne had produced· another great team! 
Rockne used a whole herd of "mules" and "horsemen" against the Bears. The game revealed little as to what the final make-up of our first contingent would. be, for all the boys played, and all the boys played equally well. Captain Crowe and his "Crew" in the line made it comparatively easy for the backfield men to gallop around at will. Edwards, Rearden, O'Boyle and Enright constituted the backfield that started the game but subsequent combinations performed just 
·as brilliantly. The prancing of Prelli and Flanagan in particular delighted the spectators. Ray Dahman, Harry O'Boyle, Flanagan and Joe Prelli all mude touchdo,vns and Tom (Red) Rearden scored twice to bring our total for the day to 41. 
Baylor's Bears proved to be mere Cubs. They were very easy to subdue. Those counting upon the \Vaco boys to defeat the Fighting Irish were sorely dis­appointed. The Irish Terriers were altogether too fast for the Texas Bears and although Bridges' men fought all the way, they were completely outclassed. 
The noise about Baylor's strength turned out to be merely a "bear" story! 

I 
I 
I i I .I. 
-# 
' 
j 
i 
.l 
I' 
1 
I 
I l I 
I 
l "' 
i I 
I 
! I 
I 
I I I 
+ 
l 
I 
I 
I 
~ 
!
I. 
I 
j 
! 



l· i I 
l 
l I 
I 
I 
Football-Review of 1925 
Notre Dame 1s Headed Toward Another· Crown 
By KENNETH S. CONN 
Shades of the "Four Horsemen," of Notre Dame, hovering over Cartier field yesterday afternoon, saw their lances carried on to vic­tory by new knights of the pigskin, promising to surpass even the valiant deeds of the 1924 champion riders. 
The ride was at the expense of Baylor uni­versity, whose eleven-twice champions of the Southwest conference-was smothered under the ignominious. score of 41 to 0. The lances were used to pierce even larger holes in the enemy's .ranks than the capable hands of the "Four Horsemen" were able to accomplish. 
In place of the "Horsemen" of yesteryear there rode eight capable and masterful gallants to the cheers of some 13,000 football fans. The debut and the ride could not have been made more pleasing, more picturesque or more sur­prising had it been 

rehearsed for years. ditional point.The entire coun­A forward pass try was intensely in­paved the way for the 
terested 'in this con-­s e c o n d touchdown test, not because it when one was com­·was the first import-pleted by Scharer to ant i n t e r s ectional Prelli for 22 yards.grid battle of the sea­· Hanousek then pro­son, but it w~s an ceeded to show how acid test forthe guid­line plunges should ing genius of Notre be made and forced Dame's football des­the ball y·ard by yardtinies, K n u t e K . down :the field to Rockne. Dean Rockne Baylor's o n e yardwithstood the test­line.· Notre Dame was 
yea, more, he proved then penalized five 
it is the coach to­yards but on the next gether with good ma­play Flanagan sprint­terial that makes· ed around right end
football teams. One is ~~~~~~~~~~~~~------~~~----~ 
dependent ·upon the other. 
While Miller, Stuhldreher, ~Crowley and Layden were missing from the lineup their places were amply filled by Christopher Flana­gan, Prelli; Dick Hanousek, Eddie Scharer, Rex Enright, Harry O'Boyle, "Red" Rearden, Riley and two or three· others. \Vhile these men lacked the polish. that comes with experi­ence, yesterday's game showed that by the·time \Vest Point is encountered Notre Dame will be proclaimed as having another national cham­pionship team. · · · · 
Whether the championship hopes will be realized this season or· next l'e"m"ahis to be seen. The team ;lacks experience as was shown 'jn many instances yesterday. The Rockne shift has not been synchronized to perfection and there. 
· is still a lo't of wor~ ahead of the men. But back to the game. -Baylor took ..the field with all the1 odds in. her ·favor. Her men out­weighed the Rox by many pounds,· and Notre Dame cann'ot be considered a light team by any mean3 this E:eason. On forward ·passes the Rox excelled; trying 11 and completing eight, all for large gains. The Bears tried at least 15 in a desperate at-
for a t o u c h d o w n. Scharer kicked for the seventh point. 
Later in this same quarter. after Hanousek and his mates worked the ball down the field, Prelli hitting around ·left end for the third 
touchdown and Roach, who had substituted for .Flanagan,. kicked the pill between the bars. At -the start of the ~second half Rockne put 
. back his starting lineup· 'into-the fray. In the· meantime Baylor had :tired anddt had develop.:. ' ed into a one-sided· contest.--O'Boyle made the fourth touchdown after.·go}ng through tackle for ·18 yards shaking off no less than six tack­lers.· Prior to· O'Boyle's.. flash· Rearden had carried.the ball 25 yards on· a criss-cross play. D'B"oyle booted the extra point ·from placement. Before the fifth ·.touchdown was .recorded Hanousek substituted for Enright and this backfield marched straight· down . the ·field. Rearden made the touchdown· around Baylor's right end from. the five yard ·line~· · The sixth and last touchdown .was perhaps the most sensational.of .any..A .. forward pass from mid-field by Riley. was· stabbed in the air by Dahman who sped for a touchdown. · 
[25] 
tempt to score but··failed to complete a single one. However, one was given to them when the referee ruled a Notre Dame tackler interfered with a catch. 
The break in the play came after Notre Dame had been penalized for holding, putting the ball on the 40 some yard line. Edwards then tossed a nice pass to O'Boyle which was good for 25 yards and the fight was switched into Baylor territor-y. Enright tore off 10 yards through tackle and Rearden followed with three more, placing the ball on Baylor's 10 yard line. After O'Boyle had been thrown for a yard loss Rearden tore around left end with his red head darting here and there, dodging tack-; · ler and tackler, and finally falling· over the goal line for the first Notre Dame touchdown to put a perfe"ct kick from placement between the 
goal posts for the ad­
Football Review of 1925 
Notre Dame, 69: Lombard, 0 
Coach Bell brought his red-jerseyed Lombardians up from Galesburg with fond hopes of accomplishing that at which Baylor so miserably failed-trimming Notre Dame. The Irish recalled the 1923 affair with Lombard and they were determined that another such bomb would not be thrown into our camp this year. Rock let the boys ride fast and furiously all afternoon and when the play was over Notre Dame had accumulated 69 points while Bell's men were not able to ring up one single marker. 
Harry O'Boyle first crossed Lombard's goal after ·he had, with the a~d of Prelli and Enright, pushed the ball down the field to Lombard's ten-yard line. Just as the first quarter ended California Joe Prelli ·stepped off a fast fifty-yard dash for the second touchdown of the day, J olm Roach was our third man. to score, when, with perfect interference of Dahman, Hanousek and Scharer, he cavorted twenty-five yards to make the score 20-0. And thus the Cavalry rode all after­noon. There was no stopping .at 21. or even ,11 points, but the boys just had to have 69-and 69 it was! Edwards, Scharer, Rile·y, l\IcNally all operated at quarter; Flanagan, Dahnran, O'Boyle, Roacl1, Prelli, Coughlin and Cody all · pivoted and skirted for substantial gains at half, and Enright; Hanousek and \Vynne unmercifully plunged through the gaps in Lombard's fonvard wall. In the line ."Big John" l\Icl\Iullen was a demon and l\Iaxwell showed·· tlu! old fight· at center. All the boys, however, played well. It was more of a track meet than 
.a football game and consequently Crowe's "Crew" was pretty ·tired after the brawl was over: \Vhen the furies had subsided and accounts were taken, it was found· that our boys had rung up ten touchdowns against Bell's charges. Cigars were doled out as follows: Roach 2, Hanousek 2, Flanagan 2 and Prelli, Cody, Dahman and O'Boyle one apiece. . 
Lombard's death knell was sweet melody t.o Notre Dame's. ears! 

Football Review of 1925 
Galesburg Outfit is Unable to .Cope with Rockne's Men By BERT V. DUNNE (South Bend News-Times) 
. The "slaughter of the innocents" was re­enacted on Cartier field Saturday afternoon be­fore an estimated crowd of 10,000 fans, when Rockne's "Blue Devils" swept like a hurricane over the prostrate forms of the Lombard "Red Birds" by a score of 69-0. 
The crowd mingled tears with cheers as they gazed on the massacre perpetrate.d before their eyes. 
The game opened rather tamely. Notre Dame fumbled constantly and Lombard's hud­dle system of calling signals ate up time. It ap-.
l peared at first that the score would be low and
, 
the game exceeding tiresome. The attack opened. · i A black-haired youth, by the name of Prelli, skirted Lombard's. right end for twenty yards.
l 
i "Red" Edwards passed to O'Boyle for another large. gain. The ball 
r 
'vas ·inches from the 
I goal line. i H a r r y O'Boyle slipped inside right
i 
tackle· for the first
I 
touchdown. The Irish 
lust for touchdowns 
had been aroused. 
The first quarter
I was just about over. Notre Dame shifted. "Flash" Prelli grab­bed the ball. The gun barked suddenly, but
I he kept on his way.
! He looked as if he w e r e running o n glass, s o deceptive were his moves, so 

c u n n i n g was his 
change of pace. One misstep would have marred 
. the supreme effort, but the dark-skinned Ital­ian, running carefully behind massed interfer..: ence, swung easily on his way. As he stepped acros·s the chalk line for the second touchdown of the day he was the only man .on his feet. Notre Dame's interference had cut down the Lombard secondary and tertiary defense and· the field was a picture of. strewn players. A bit of sadness crept in when "Prelli made his touchdown. Rex Enright, the dashing full­back was hurt. A monster roar broke from the stands as Enright was· carried to the bench. He looked to be in great pain and was taken to the gymnasium where his .injuries 'vere found to be only of a temporarily sedous nature. He will be ready· again when the Irish strike Beloit. The .second quarter opened. "Speedy" Roach, who had been begging for a chance,· was sitting on the sidelines praying. that he . might be injected into the fray.· Rockne must have read· his r,tind for he ordered him in. Roach romped out onto ·the gridiron with his · heart on fire. For three arduous years "Speedy'' 
had been fighting with the courage of a fron­tiersman for a real chance to show his true worth. . 
As he took the ball on his first play over right tackle there was a smile playing on his face. 
Roach cruised behind the same remarkable interference which had been prevalent all aft:. ernoon, cut quickly to the left and put the third touchdown on the score board. Saturday, John Augustus Roach of Appleton, Wis., launched an attack on the left.halfback position that will bear fruit before the season is over. 
Lew Cody was "Speedy's" running mate at right halfback. Cody, strutting along behind the same superb interference, eased his way for three great runs, the last of which terminated in a touchdown. Cody is made. 
L o m b a r d now· 
took the ball. Their attack was just a match lit in a wind­storm. It died almost as soon as it lived. 
Once more Prelli, H a n o u s e-k a n d O'Boyle, guided by Edwards again ap­proached the enemy's position. Prelli c u t through a b r o k e n field for a long gain, O'Boyle wiggled thru right tackle· for ten yards, then the crush­er, Hanousek; smash­ed the Lombard cen­
ter trio to bits for the
CltR 
fourth marker. 
The attack started again. The Irish, offen­sively, were a~ smooth· as satin. Notre Dame's pygmy guard, 'Clipper" Smith, urged on by the universal spirit.of freedom which was infesting Notre Dame's attack cut his larger opponents to ribbons. Smith played viciously-he did not give an inch-he rode his man out of the play with such ease that it looked like effortless work. on his part. . 
The fifth touchdown was the same old story. First Prelli, then O'Boyle, then Hanousek-the try was co.mpleted. · 
O'Boyle swept over for the sixth touchdown after "Flash" P1~elli had again turned in one of his magnificent effol.·ts. Prelli ran like a quiv­ering arrow, shaking off Lombard's presump­tions tacklers with-.ease. · 
"Dick" Hanousek and Ray Dahman divide::! the honors for the seventh touchdown. It was momentous the 'vay .the Irish backs, aided by their line, clicked off the yardage. 
The next two touclido\vns · were due to Flanagan and Dahman. 
[27] 
F o o t ba ll R e v-i e w. o f 1 9 2 5 

Notre Darrie, 19: Beloit, ·s 
"\Ve did not look for much .trouble from the Beloit Vikings-btit Vikings have done many strange things in past centuries. Beloit, like true Pirates, did not seem the least· bit worried about our decisive victories o\'er ·Baylor and Lombard. They came to Notre Dame ·and 'neath the shadow of the Golden Dome fought a good fight~a fight which all our' boys will remembe_r for some time to come. 
Beloit drew first blood. It was a beautiful field goal fro~ .the thirty-seven yard line by Darling, the visitors' left guard. The Vikings, however, gloated over their lead for only a short time. After · the kick-off,~ Prclli~ O'Boyle and Hanousek pranced like true steeds to Beloit's one-yard line. Then. the quarter ended. On the very first play of the second quarter Harry carried the ball over.. He con­verted for the extra point .a minute later and the score was seven to three. Prelli broke away in the third quarter fQr a sixty-seven yard sprint and our second score. It was ·a beautiful run and brought back fond memories. of the· never-to.:.be-for­got.ten "Horsemen." Harry O'Boyle failed to annex the extra point. Our third and last score. was made by Lew Cody. Lew intercepted a Viking pass and . "Crowleyed" for forty yards and a touchdown. Here Roach failed to convert· · and we had our fill for the day-nineteen points. 
The Belo'it game proved that there were many rough spots in Notre Dame's play that would need a lot of sand-papering and polishing before the real season began. John Mcl\Ianmon looked like the John of '2•1 at tackle. He broke through the Vik­ing line time and again and squelched p'otential gains in the bud. Captain Clem, of course, played his regular, good, consistent game. and Joe Benda had his eye on the ball all afternoon. The boys from Beloit trcaded on enchanted ground on their way home; they rejoiced in their defeat for they had held Notre Dame to a low score; they scored on Notre Dame. On the other hand, we realized everything was not rosy · and the Army game a week hence ! 

!· 
. Football Review of 19f25 
Wisconsin Eleven First to. Score Against Irish. 
By KENNETH S. CONN 
mon in these parts is the short screened passBeloit cam·e to South Bend, did what no just over the line of scrimmage and was suc­other team has·been able to do this season and 
cessful to a small degree.
departed in the same manner as Baylor and Notre -Dame attempted but one pass,
Lombard did-defeated. However, the Badger 
O'Boyle to Rearden, which was good for 35.
youths were not disgraced and humbled. as the yards. This was offered as just a sample of theLone Star and Sucker boys were after their threat Notre Dame was concealing. The play on. 
. encounter with·the 1925 edition of Notre .Dame · the field itself was confined to straight football.
football team. Beloit scored against the Rox Line plunges, off-tackle and .around ends were 
and hence the score-19 to 3. 
virtually the entire Rox portfolio.
The team from Wisconsin was a sadly un­Rockne kept many of his leading stars un­
derrated eleven. It scored against Notre Dame der blanket. Flanagan was only permitted to 
l ' 
and that is something than can not be laughed show for a small time,· Cody was in and out, off lightly. This score was a direct challenge to Enright did not show at all and a few others . the Notre Dame defense which has been high­were sent in and then jerked out. ly touted as being even better than the 1924 The first Notre Dame score came in the 
I champions possessed. It may be. opening minutes of the second quarter. The 
j 
Coach Knute Rockne 
with the number of 
plays he permittedI I his proteges to flaunt i in the face of the
l 
numerous scouts in 
the press stand, and 
that was one reasonI ! for the low Notre 
Dame score. Another
I 
I reason is that Beloit 
is a well coached, wellI drilled and well con­
ditioned t e a m. I t sI members fight clean 
and the line, consid­
I 
I 
ering its weight; was I ·as good as Notre 
Dame's consideringI pound for pound. I I · More than 6,000 
! specators sa"\v the tus:.. !. sle and were given a scare of their young and old lives in the first qum;ter. Beloit issued no
j 
pre-game, predictions, no statements as to its :ability but saved this energy to meet the gal­I lant of Notre Dame. The Rox were played to a standstill the first quarter with the kind of football they present.ed. Perhaps if a few de­I ceptive plays ·had been introduced the score, might have been larger, but they weren't and
l 
i Beloit met them at their own game. A lad.by the name of Darling, who usually
I stalks in the left side of the line at guard, was responsible for Beloit's three·. points. The ball was snapped back to O'Conner who held it ciose
•I 
to the. ground on. the 39 yard line while Darl­
I 
! ing's right. toe connected. with it and sent it spinning between .the Notre· Dame uprights. This was the first time 1\J"otre Dame. has been 
scored on this-season.
'" 
'i This same Darling tried two other place kicks during ·the game but with little hope in
i 
each case of succe.eding.·One was from the 45
I 
r yard line ·and the othei· from the 55 yard line. i Another thing Beloit displayed that· is not com-l was mighty miserly ball at the opening of this period was on the 
· · Beloit one foot· line and O'Boyle took it through right tackle for the touchdown. He then proceeded to . kick the extra point from placement. 
The second touch­down came at the start of the second half. Darling kicked off to Edwards who returned the ball to his own 34 yard line. Prelli on the next play thru left tackle came u p s m i I i n g 66 yards further on down the field. It was a beautiful run with 

. Prelli spinning thru the line and dodging the secondary defense un­til his interference could catch up with him. u·was the kind of a run that brings the stands to their. feet cheering to an echo. . · 
The third score was another sensational run and provided that extra thrill that made it a grand afternoon. O'Brien, who plays with Be­loit despite his name, on attempted pass only saw Cody jump into the air, tuck ·the ball under his left arm and race 4 7 yards for a touchdown. Prelli and Cody stood out in ·the contest as .real stars. Their runs were thrilling .and made the .spectators glance to the scoreboard and 
. then smile and.wink at those standing close to them.. '.'It is part of ·the Rockne system," they stated m matter of fact tones.. "He is covering up, wait till next Satur~ay." · 
· W~ile part of this.inay be true it is not all 
true .and Belqit should . be given -the credit it 
· is due. The ends were for the!niost part stopped 
.· dead. .-Not. on~e did Wallace get beyond the line . of scrimmage, and he was_not the only one. ~ ~ot~·e -Dame .st~ll .showed .some roughness ~Jm~ must be polished off: Many "penalties were . mfhcted upon the Rox. · 
.[29] 
I 
i 
1 
Football Review of 1925 
Notre Dame, 0: Army, 27 
I 
I 
1 
Army was Army at its very best. Notre Dame was the same Fighting Notre Dame, hut merely a little stage-struck, perhaps. Army had the better team that day. There is no doubt about it__:_but do 'not overlook the fact that Notre Dame made the :Mules fight every minute of the fracas. 
Bud Boeringer seemed to lend the fight for Notre Dame, but all our boys battled hard. To lose to Army was no disgrace. The crowd at home expected St. Joan of Arc to carry the team through but, as one sage remarked, St. Joan of Arc lost battles to the English, so surely there could be no stigma attached to defeat at the hands of real .t\.mericans. 
'Ve must simply re1ri"~mber again and again that our boys went down fighting­they fought as. only Our Lady's can fight. Notre Dame was not down~ Jiearted. She was glorious. in defeat. 
·j 
1 
1 
I I 
St. Bernard wrote: "'Vhen you see yourself humbled take it as a sign, and even as a certain proof that some great grace is drawing near to thee." Let us hope St. Bernard is correct. Philosophers and saints of all ages have urged men to accept humiliation cheerfully. Humiliation reveals the man-virtues and vices. Then these vices may be medicined and the result will be a new and better indi­vidual. The same will hold true. for an organization-a football team. Notre Dame suffered complete humiliation at the hands of Uncle Sam's 'Vest Point Cadets on October 17. But following St. Bernard and Rockne, we will have to admit that the defeat was a good thing for the boys. 
Army waited nine years for this. It was a dreary Saturday afternoon. 75,000 people·were there. The Y:nikee Stadium in New York City. The Cadets at home on the Plains. But eleven of them down there on Y nnkee Field fighting mad! Tiny Hewitt, 'Vilson, Harding and Yoemnns! Notre Dame and St. J onn of Arc bewildered! Final score 27-0! That is the story of the Army game. 


Football Review of. 19~5 
80,000 See Army Beat_Notre·Dame 
By HARRY CROSS 
An Army football· team which is not only powerful but also smart and alert defeated Notre Dame at the Yankee Stadium yesterday afternoon, by a score of 27 to 0, to the cheers of 80,000 spectators, New York's greatest foot­ball gathering. ·West Point has been waiting a good long time for a chance like this, for Rock­ne's gridiron pupils have handed the Cadets many an unhappy afternoon in by-gone years. 
In t}:le vast gathering which was banked on all sides of the stadium gridiron were thous­ands who had come expecting to see Notre Dame take away another victory. The reputa­tion of Rockne and his Notre Dame elevens has aroused interest in college football among spec­tators who have never had the opportunity to watch it before. · 
But Rockne did 
not have one of his . great teams this time. He can hardly be ex­pected to have them 
·all the time. West Point has a superior eleven, one w h i·ch promises to give a great account of ~­self when .it clashes with the Navy at the season's end. 
The Cadets scored four touchdowns, two in the second period and two in the fourth. The line of soldiers rpde rough shod over the Notre Dame wall 
of forwards through-. out the game, outplaying them so thot:oughly that "\Vest Pointers were charging through the line upsetting ·Notre Dame backs before they could get started. . 
Rockne groped about all afternoon trymg to find some. surprise to spring on the Cadets but he also found them watchful. He rushed in reserves by the score. He shuffled up his big squad like a pack of cards and hoped that at some time or another he might draw another four of a kind as he held last year with his talented Four Horsemen and other quartets which have carried his fam~ over many a ·foot­ball field. · 
Army had the satisfaction of scoring the first touchdown on speedy businesslike football tactics. As the linemen opened great gaps in the Notre Dame forwards, .Wilson, Yoemans at quarter and Hewitt, who had succeeded Buell, worked the ball down to the four yard line where big Jack Smith, the Hoosier left guard, unceremoniously shoved "\Vilson out of bounds.· 
"\Vhen the teams lined up on the four-yard mark; ·wilson, taking the ball faked his· run toward Notre Dame's right end, which was in the path to the goal posts. The wfiole Notre Dame line leaned to that direction when Wilson hurled himself through a big hole which Spra­gue and Captain Baxter had made for him. 
The unusual crowd had looked upon the proceeding up to this point with much surprise. They had expected the Hoosiers to turn loose volleys of aerial passes and had expected evi­dences of the close compact team-. work for which the Notre Dame elevens have ever been· noted. 
There were only a· handful of Cadets at the game, just a few score who were fortunate to get the week-end away from the Point. There were, however, many army officers there and they had plenty of their friends with them. All­the Notre Dame alumni in the east enlisted 
t h e i r friends, but 
they could make little impression with their enthusiasm compared with the demonstra­tion the Army folks ·started after the first touchdown and con­tinued throughout the 
game. 
There w a s some 
hard grueling scrim­
maging in · the . third 
period. The prayers 
on both teams . got 
many hard k n o c k s 
which necessitated 
m a n y delays and 
brought the rubbers 
and trainers scurry­
ing from the side 
lines with their water buckets. The Army tack­
ling was quick and decisive and the Notre Dame . tackling was heavy but slow. 
Notre Dame made frantic efforts to get an 
overhead attack going in the fourth period. 
O'Boyle and Scharer was one combination 
which tried in vain, and Roach and Voedisch 
was another.· The alert Army ends and second­
ary defense were usually outguessing the Hoo­
siers-in' their efforts to exe'cute their forward 
passes. , 
·Early in that fourth period Hewitt's at­
tempt to kick was thwarted by Jack Smith, who 
blocked the kick and· recovered the ball. Prelli 
jammed through the Army line for a couple of 
yards, but another attempted forward pass fail­
ed miserably, the Cadet line smashing through 
to upset the combination. O'Boyle was tired· 
again. and Roach came-back· into the game. 
When he attempted to punt; Saunders, Army's 
right tackle, broke through, blocked the kick~ 
and Born, who was at. his side, clutched the 
bounding pigskin on the first bound and raced 
down the field to the one-yard mark before he 
was overtaken and spilled in the mud. Hewitt 
then wiggled through for the touchdown. 
[31] 
·,. 
'. ·~ 

., ' 
1'1 
J.; 
! 

Football·· Review· of 1 9 2 5
--------------------:--------..:....___________________ 
Notr~ Datne, 19: Minnesota, 7 
The Army game hurt. The boys were fighting mad. The least little flare ~\'O.tlld incite the Irish fury. They were deteri~ined to crush everything that beset their progress in regaining their lost prestige. Not a team in the country could beat Notre Dame in that frame· of mind. The Gophers tried valiantly to reopen the wound but failed. The score was 19-7. 
Edwards,· Rearden, Flanagan and Enright marched down the field for the first . touchdo~vn, Rex carrying the ball across on the first play of the second period. In 
· the fourth quarter Christie Flannagan contributed a touchdown after pretty runs of twenty-five and fourteen );ards. Then Red Smith of Combined Locks, 'Visconsin; recovered ·a :Minnesota fumble on their twenty-eight yard line rind Christie was again good for twenty-three yards. Rex Enright annexed the necessary five yards to make our total 19 points. A word must be said fQr Joe Boland who blocked t'~o :Minne~ota punts during the fray. The most dazzling play of the afternoon, however, was Parisien's recovery of a :Minnesota fumble on our own two yard line and his race down the field for "eighty yards before being brought down by a Gopher. 
52,000 spectators filled the :Memorial Stadium in 1\Iinneapolis this particubr af­ternoon. They saw some remarkable football-perhaps the best ever exhibited in the N ortliwest. 52,000 people saw the Gophers go down fighting. 'Ve_ repeat again it was a useless task to attempt to defeat Notre Dame that day, an impossibility, in fact. Over 5500 Notrc Dame boys and the band travelled to the Twin Cities to cheer the Irish on. Their trip was not in vain. 'Ve proved to. the· world that we might have been down but we ,\•ere never out; we proved that we could and would come back. Rockne smiled ! 

Football Review of 1925 
Flanagan Rides as Horseman; Irish Win, _19-7 
By JAMES CRUSINBERRY 

MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.-For three-quar­
ters of an intense and thrilling gridiron com­
bat today Minnesota's ~parkling but green foot­
ball team had 50,000 folks screaming with joy. 
·Then an Irish boy, Chris Flanagan of Corpus 
Christi, Texas, decided it was time to become 
.a horseman and Minnesota was ridden down 
to defeat by Notre Dame by 19 to' 7. 
The Notre Dame team of today was by far 
the best of the p1~e3ent season. It wasn't a team 
such as rode every opponent to earth a year 
ago and won a national championship, but it 
was a much g'reater machine according to 
Knute Rockne than the one which was wrecked . .a week ago in New York by the Army. 
In the crisis of the battle, Minnesota fell 
down in its punting· game after displaying a 
weakness in that department all afternoon, and 
right in that crisis 
Flanagan rode. t h e 
enemy to earth. 
When that final 
quarter began w i t h 
the fight even, Notre . 
Dame· had the ball on 
the enemy's 35 yard 
line. Minnesota's line 
stopped Joe Prelli and 
then stopped 'Rex En-· 
Tight with a gain of 
one-half of a yard. 
Gene Edwards punt­
ed cleverly kicking 
the ball out of bounds 
on the Minnesota 7­
yard line. Immediate­
1y from behind his J oesting hit the middle for three yards and then for two and then the ball was snapped to Shor­ty Almquist, who fumbled and a Notre Dame· man fell on it on the enemy's twenty-eight yard line. · 
Right away Flanagan mounted his steed and the ball was tossed to him. He rode a couple of tacklers to earth and broke loose again for another dash around the right end for 24 yards, planting the ball on the Minnesota four yard line, where, in one smash off tackle, Enright carried it over the goal line. Again Flanagan missed goal, but it mattered not, for the score was 19 to 7 and there were only three or four minutes left to play. In that brief time the Minnesota team rallied gamely and, with the aid of a nifty pass after getting the ball in Notre Dame territory on a fumble, the Gophers 
were down close to the goal when the fin.:. al pistol shot. ended the game, b u t it would have taken two touchdowns t o have won. 
It was some rip­ping .runs by Flana­gan coupled with a deplorable punt by Minnesota that gave the South Benders their first touchdown in the second period. 
The Texas lad got loose ~or a thir~y-five yard run near the close ·of the first quar-

Ascher punted b u t . . · · . the ball went only to his 28-yard line, where it was downed. 
On the first play, Flanagan was given the ball, and with some fine interference by En-right and Prelli, he got loose around the right end for 24 yards to the Minne·sota four yard line. That: seemed .to assure: a· touchdown arid victory but on the ·next-play, Enright was stopped ·with only a two yard gain. Notre Dame was off side and penalized five yard. That put the ball b~ck on the nine ·yard line and Notre Dame decitled to send Joe Prelli ·around the left end. He \vas nailed from behind and thrown 
for a loss :of. six .yai·ds and the hall was on the fifteen yard line; It was third down· with the goal line to gain. 
Flanagan was called to carry the ball~._arid again his mates knocked two or three danger­ous men out of his way and broke loose around the right ;end for a fifteen yard run and a touchdown. He missed·his attempt at goal and the score stood 13 to 7: 
Notre Pame kicked off and Bob Peplaw ran the ball back to his own 20 yard line. Herh 
own goal .line, Capt. ~=-======~======::s;iin_..=.:..__:=::_j quarter, putting the 
ball · on Minnesota's 12 yard line. Here the Gophers made a gallant stand and took the ball on downs on their own four yard line, but in kicking it back Capt. Ascher· punted out of. bounds on his own 13 ¥ard line. Rearden m-ade nine yards as the per­10d eiJ.ded; and on the first play of the second 
· quarter Enright went over for a·touchdown. 
rt·was only a few minutes later that Minne­sota tied the count, and 'it was largely due to splendid running by Harold · Murrel, Capt. Ascher, and Shorty·Almquist. Notre Dame kick­ed off and Murrel·retUl;ned to his 32 yard line. J oesting mashed through center for nine yards
and then made it first down. Murre! got five 
yards,. Almquist three; ati.d then Ascher fifteen to the ~Notre Dame ·25 yard·line;· Murrel made three, then ten; putting the ball on the nine yard line. In this crisis Joesting hit the middle for five, · Almquist failed · to gain, and then Joesting got only two. It was fo~rth down, with three· to go. Almquist·. hit ·off right 'tackle and we~t over. for a touchdown, Ascher. kicking a goal from placement that tied the score. 
rn· the third period there was no scoring though Notre Dame threatened often. 
[33] 
I 
I 
F o o t b a ll · R e v i e w· o f 1 9 2 5 


Notre Da:m.e, 18: Georgia Tech; 0 
Our boys never had any fear for big, black, .bleak, biting tornadoes and as for Golden ones-why, they just eat 'em up! The "Golden Tornado" of Atlanta­the Georgia Tech team--:--proved to be only a soft and gentle zephyr. It was the day of the "Big 'Vind" in Atlanta but the Irish from Notre Dame were not the vi<;tims. "'Vinged with red lightning and tempestuotis r:ige" they stormed through the Georgia Tech "Yellow J ackcts" for two touchdowns and their fourth consecutive victOr)~ over the Southerners. 
-The game was played in a steady drizzle; umbrellas and slickers were in vogue; the crowd was small. The great 'Vycoff and his assistants kept the Tech bench dry. Coach Alexander must have realized the funeral prospects for the day so he used only his "shock" troops against our boys-truly.they were shocked. Only two touchdowns were scored by the Irish, but that was one more than necessary to inter the Atlantans. 
In the first quarter Gene Edwards intercepted a Tech pass and raced to the Georgian's twenty-five yard line. Then Rearden, Enright and Flanagan crashed the line and circled the· ends to put the .ball· on the one foot line. . Christie carried it across but failed to add the extra point by placement. Our second touchdown came early in the second quarter. Flanagan tore off twenty yards to start a march from mfdfield and with the aid of the two red heads and Rex Enright he finally planted the ball behind Tech's goal. Gene E.dwards con~ verted for the extra point. This finished our scoring· for the afternoon, the tally being 13-0. · . . 
The Georgia Tech. game was our second rally' after the Army disaster. Cer­tainly our boys had benefitted by the New York affair. 'Ve are beginning to find_ ourselves now and the wound of the Army sabre is healing fast. 
I • 
I 

F o o t b a ll· R e v i ~ w o. f 1 9 2 5 

Rox Outclass Atlantans in Every ~hase of Game 
By BEARSKIN 
ATLANTA, Ga.-"Chdstie" Flanagan show­.were intercepted. Notre Dame es£ayed three ed his Dixie playmates how to run ends, buck forward passes all.in the final quarter and all lines ~nd in general how to play football wheri were successful. Tech made but two first he and 10 other gentlemen representing. No­downs while the Rox piled up 16. If this tre Dame defeated Georgia Tech, 13 to 0, here doesn't show the superiority of the South Bend this afternoon. eleven then Grant is a better man than Jeff 
The Georgians were never able to muster Davis to the dyed-in-the.:.wool Southerner. enough_ offense to threaten the Notre Dame Rockne upset all dope and it may go down goal, although they did rally in the second half as a world record when all the data is com­and hold the Rox ·scoreless. The sloppy. field piled. He failed to make his wholesale substi­and dripping clouds made the handling o_f punts tution, which showed the game was off form 
and passes extremely hazardous. from any angle you can care to look. 
Notre Dame's first score came in the initial In _each game the Rox are showing im­period. Edwards intercepted a pass and sprint­proved form and by the time Carnegie Tech ed to Tech's 25-yard line. Flanagan then-tore and Northwestern are encountered in South off 11 yards around right end. Then Rearden, Bend they should be at top form. From now Enright and Flanagan hit through tackle and on the Rox get nothing but tea and raw meat ran the wings until the ball was on the one-foot in preparation for Nebraska. line. Flanagan then stepped the gap at right tackle for the touchdown and was not even taken off his feet. The kick for ex­tra point \vas blocked. 
Early in the sec­ond quarter with No­tre Dame in posses­sion of the ball on her own 49-yard line Enright p I u n g e d through right tackle and the second march was on. On the next play Flanagan circled left end for 20 yards. Edwards bucked cen­ter for seven more and Rearden added another six yards around the left flank. Hear­extraordinary in Christie Flanagan, den and Enright put five more yards on the Hoosier halfback, around ·whom the Hoosier distance and then the Texas Irishman brought offence, as well as defense, was built. back memories of the "horsemen" by trotting 
Notre Dame shoved across her initialaround right end for 10 yards and a tou·ch­touchdown· iri_ the opening quarter~
down. Edwards kicked goal and hence the 13 to 0 score. . ·· . . Notre Dame's second touchdown came in 
Notre Dame outpunted the southerners, out the early. moments of. the. second quarter on distanced them ·on line plays and forward pass­a march from her own 48-yard line. Flanagan es, and, in fact, out everythiriged them through­·reeled off a left end run for 20 yards, which 
out the contest. Tech was licked before the was followed by short ·jabs through the-hne. game and-it was merely a matter of bowling . On the ten-yard line Flanagan again took the them over. -oval· and flanked right. end .-for. his second However, while Georgia _did not deem. it 
touchdown, -with Edwards adding the extra
worthy to. risk the to.uted Wycoff, Barron and point. · · · · · others they did put up a hard battle considering l everything. Tech has a good little team, but Hardly had this _score been chalked up, Notre Dame is a good big team and, while the when Tech started her. only successful drive score doesn't show it, the 'Rox displayed a game . of the game. Connelly returned the kick-off I which on a dry field· would have ·been ·twice thirty y~rds. Tech unloosed a brief aerial at­I 
as large. tack, which caught Notre Daiue napping twice
· in succession. rech brought th.e ball to Notre Rox Outplay Opponents. 
Dame's twenty-five yard line, ·but her chances From the statistical angle, Tech attempted for scoring were blasted when Rearden inter­seven passes, two being sut cessful and three cepted the next pass. I !
[35] 
F oo t b a ll R e v i e·w o f 1 9 92 5 

Notre Dame, 0: Penn State, 0 

The game .might have been better played on skiffs or in row-boats. At uny 
rate on a field of mud and in a drenching rain the Fighting Irish and the Nittany · Lions of State College, Pennsylvania, fought a scoreless tic. Twenty-five thousand Penn State Homecomers braved the elements to see ·their boys perform aga~nst Notre Dame. They were drenched to the skin when they left the stadium, but they left the· stadium luippy. Tl~e Nittany Lions had shown their mettle. T·ltey had 
held Notre Dame to a scoreless tie. 
It might have been a different story if the field were dry and. all that,. but we 
will not argue this point. Suffice to say that Flanagan, Bearden, Enright and 
Edwards tore off yardage before the State wall but just when the ball would be 
placed inthe shadow of the Penn State goal, the Lions would growl, stick fast their 
claws and displ!'te any further passage. Thus the ga~e carried on all a~ternoon. 
The sad feature of the afternoon-was Captain ·clem Crowe's injury. Clem 
tore a. muscle in his back and this killed him for the rest of the season. It was 
a· tough break for us. \Vallace played a smashing game at end· as did Voedisch 
who substituted for Crowe. Ike at one period beautifully stopped one of Edward's 
punts on State's ·one-yard line. Joe Boland and l\Icl\Ianmon, l\farelli and 
l\Iay~r and Bud Boeringer stopped all things coming ·in their directions. 
Notre_ Dame made much more yardage than Penn State; they held State to 
three first downs, in fact, outplayed the Lions in every department of the game, but 
nevertheless that 0-0 score blazes forth and offsets all other considerations or · 
alibis. The Nittany Lions must receive due credit for the great fight they showed; 
especially in their own territory. It was the "Day of the Big l\Iud," and upsets 
were preval~nt all over the country. Notre Dame's· stock depreciated not a whit 
on account of our scoreless tie with Penn State. 


1/ootball Review of 1925 
·Gray's Mighty Toe Stops·R?ck's Clan in Drizzle of Rain 

STATE COLLEGE, Pa.-Butchered by the Army in its first invasion of the East, the Lochinvars of Notre Dame in the vestments of football came back to the terrain of the effete East today to battle a scoreless tie with the cubs of the famed and mythical Lion of Old Nittany. 
Twenty-two thousand sat through a drizzle and downpour that changed the velvet turf of Beaver Field into a morass and quagmire to see Penn State, a fighting clan, dauntless in spirit, if unsuccessful in quest, fight the foes from .the land of the Hoosier to a stalemate. 
Eleven years ago the College that sits atop that hill in South Bend sent its warriors here to overthrow and spoil a triumphant season of the Blue and ·white. Since that day the defeat has rankled in the hearts of the Lions' cubs, the iron has 
lodge.d in the souls of ~1' 
the gladiators who I bear her colors into· the arena each sea-~ son. --1 
Determined to' / thwart this ~econd j 1
1
invasion of Center, County, · whose bat-' tling y o u n g s t e rs, fighting in the strength of an uncon­querable spirit, went out on the rain­soaked battlefield and fought with every inch of their being, every ounce of their might. No moral vic­tories are ever hailed with jubilation and glee by the. stalwarts who 
battle for Bezdek. and their alma mater, but today's renewal of. that ancient feud might well be viewed in such a light. 
Two golden opportunities to score . came one to each eleven, and the fight and the power of the rival stopped the conquest. 
Third Period a Thriller. 
Notre Dame held the leash the greater part of the time, .but once aroused and Penn State could not be downed or forced to ·surrender or capitulate. 
Try Aerial Game. 
Flanagan, a titan ori the offense, swept·into the line and was spilled ni,pe yards from the line of scrimmage. The· ball rested on State's -'sixteen-yard·. line. Enright, on a split play, shot ahead for three yards more. A ·first .down on" the thirteen-yard line came now, the '\Vest to bask in glory. by a splendid achievement. The Hoosiers elected to·go into the air, hoping that victory would wing its flight out of the ozone. 
Backward went ~d~vards, a lanky H~osie1~, 
'· 
I 
I
reminiscent of Slim Harris of the Mackmen. l'. 
r.·
As the ball came to him the Indianan dropped . f back several yards to throw a forward pass. He swept the field with his eyes, selected his eligible man, but tarried too long. Through the line came a thundering end, Weston of .the Lions. He bore down upon Edwards like a Hussar in a charge. He chased the Hoosier backward, and as Edwards drew back his arm to fling the cowskin, '\Veston tore into him, flung his· arms around the Notre Dame man's knees. Down he went in the slime and muck of a morass. Twenty yards had Notre Dame lost on this thrilling feat by '\Veston. 

As the ·State cohorts broke into a roar that resounded over the hills tinged with autumn foliage, their plaudits died in a groan. For as Edwards tried to forward pass again to 
Voedisch an impetu­ous State man flung himself at the re­ceiver, roughing him and a penalty re­sulted. It was the Hoosiers' ball at the point where the error was committed, a first down and only eight yards for a touch­down. 
'Then c a m e t h a t fighting spirit of the Lions' w h e I ps to throttle the invader in flne of the finest defensive fights that ever Beaver Field has k n o w n. Flanagan swerved toward the 
end to collide with a horde of State tacklers. Two yards gained only. Enright tried to mob the center. A scant .two yards more his re­ward. 
Back to the thirteen-yard . mark roamed .Enright, befoi·e him knelt a colleague to hold the ball for a placement kick. The ball came 
! back perfecty, the toe iuet the cowskin with a resounding thump, but the oval veered a.way. Notre Dame's golden opportunity was gone. 
One Philadelphian cioaked himself in glory. He was Joe Boland, the behemoth at tackle, who once made history at Catholic High in the Quaker City. 
Flanagan, ·a mighty son of Texas, also shone resplendently in the Hoosier attack. · 
Rockne uncovered one of the finest .ends that we have seen this season. His name is Voedisch, and he became a· combatant when ·captain Crowe was injured· so badly that he was withdrawn ·early in fray. .The field leader . was not· missed, his substitute covering the wing in exemplary fashion. · 

[37] 
.l~ 
. i 
Football Review of. 1925 



Notre Darrie, 26: Carnegie Tech, 0 
The driest story ever told is the one of the Scotchman and the Irishman 'vho wen't into a saloon to drink and the It:ishman didn't have any money. The Scotch are usually considered to be pretty "thin" about. their worldy goods, but we know "twenty-seven Kilties from Pittsburgh who were completely outdone in this respect by some Fighting Irishmen. ·Not a single score did the Irish allow the Carnegie Skibos to register during the 1925 Hom_ecoming fracas at Notre Dame. On the other hand, Notre Dame amassed a big twenty-six-a twenty-six sickening to the hearts of the Kilties. 
Coach Steffen brought a squad of twenty--seven and a band from the _Smoky City. These men were led by the much-feared Captain Beede, who, by the way, never had a chance during the fray. The Scotch had very I.ittle kick. Notre Dame had become accustomed to hard "mule" three weeks previously ·and nothing less than dynamite could affect. the Irish on this afternoon. The Scotch was easy to take. 
It is sai4 that the whippet is the fastest creature on legs. But you couldn't make .the Homecoming crowd believe this. One Christie Flanagan from 'Port Arthur, Texas-, proved to the satisfaction of all that whippets and greyhounds are back numbers. Of course, the old reliable Red _Hearden-good old silent Tom­featured prominently in the accumulation of that twenty-six score. Enright, too, hammered the Kiltie line to a pulp. Charley Riley scored our final touchdown in tli.e last few minutes of ·l)lay when he outguessed the .. Skibos for ten yards .and a touchdo"~n. It_ see1ned like old times to see Dick Hanousek back at gtiard and_ he conducted himself ·as if he-were right at home,· again. "Hartford John" Smith a~d "Big-Jolin': l\Ic?\_Ian~on_ also played famousl)r fn the line. Captian Crowe could not--play because ~o{ -i~ju.rie~ sl.tstained ~n.· ~the· Penn State; game, but "Ike" ·Voedisch proved that. i~e.-could.. emulate Clem.Jo .":i :l~~gh degree. _ 
,'• 



Football Review. of 1925 
Notre Dame, Flashing 1924 Form, Buries Carnegie, 26~0 
SOUTH BEND, Ind.-Flashing the same the second quarter Coach Rockne sent in his sort of attack which featured the play of last string players. This wholesale substitution year's National Championship eleven, Notre took place after Half Back Roach had made a Dame defeated Carnegie Tech today on Cartier fair catch on Tech's thirty-three-yard line. The Field, 26 to 0. The game was played in the regulars could not gain and Enright's at­presence of 21,000 Homecoming fans, the larg-tempted place kick from the visitors' thirty­est crowd which ever witnessed a gridiron con-eight-yard line fell short, the ball going to test on Notre Dame's historic battleground. Carnegie on· its fourteen-yard line. Tech could 
Starting in the second period when the not gain and Bastian punted ·to Edwards, who regulars replaced the shock troops, Notre Dame was stopped on Tech's thirty-five-yard line. unleashed an open and close attack that baffled Notre Dame then made a successful attack the Smoky City eleven. . It was only a costly on the visitors' goal. Enright hit center for fumble within scoring distance which robbed one yard and Flanagan broke lose off his right the. locals of other chances to score, but some tackle and carried the oval to Tech's ten­of this fumbling was caused by the hard tackl-yard line. · Two plunges by Enright and an­ing of the Tech eleven, superbly coached by other off taqkle slant by Flanagan enabled the ·walter Steffen, the former Chicago athlete, latter to cross the goal. Enright missed the and one of the greatest players who ever wore try by placement and the half end~d shortly the Maroon. afterward with Notre 
·while Rex Enright, Dame on the long end the Notre Dame full-of a 6 to 0 score. · back, did some ex-Conch Rockne kept cellent plunging, the his regulars in the running of Christy game in the third· Flanagan was one of period. Notre Dame the features of the received the -kickoff, game. This p 1 aye r Enright running the skirted the Tech ends ball back to his thirty-or cut in off ·the five-yard mark. A tackles '\vith all ·the brilliant march down speed and agility of ~~.4 field was stopped on some of the best // Tech's ten-yard line. backs in the middle , On a series of trick
6_0 
west.· His teammates -plays Tech advanced blocked superbly. the ball to its forty-
When t a c k 1 e d, yard line, and then Flanagan pivoted out Bastian punted to of the grasp of his Edwards on his twen­tacklers and carried ty-seven-yard 1in e. on for several yards. He picked his holes Again Notre Dame paraded foi.· the enemy's nicely and scored one of t11e four .touchdo,~ns · goal, the march culminating in a touchdown credited to Coach Rockne's eleven, which · by Enright. Edwards drop kicked for the showerl wonderful improvement since its de-extra point. Score: Notre Dame, 13; Car-feat by the Army early in the season. · · negie Tech, 0. 
The running attack in which Flanagan was A fumbled punt paved the way for Notre the principal ball carrier and the slashing line Dame's third touchdown. Bastian droppedr-offense in which Enright tore wide gaps in the Edward's kick, and McManmon recovered for visitors' line proved too much· for Steffen's . Notre Dame on Tech's · thirty..:five-yard. line. eleven which never once let up in. its efforts Once ·more the locals' backfield '\Vent· into to stem the tide of defeat. action, and finally Enright plowed through 
Capt. Beede won the toss and elected to center for the touchdo\vn. Scharer made the defend the north goal with a slight wind at extra point by kicking a goai from placement. his back.. Captain Crowe,. Captain of Notre Score: Notre Dame, 20; Carnegie Tech, 0. Dame eleven, who was injured in the Penn Toward the end of the quarter Notre Dame State game, came· out in citizen's .clothes to blocked Ba.stian's punt on Tech's twenty-yard call the toss of the coin. \Vhen Beede made line. On a. fake forward pas's play Quarter his choice, Crowe chose to kick off. Back Riley ·circled Te_ch's right end for a 
Coach Rockne sent in his shock troops for touchdown, and O'Boyle added the extra point the first kickoff~ They .Played well, but werE: by drop kicking the goal. . held scoreless in the opening period. At one Following the game, Rockne walked across time they made an excellent march deep in the field in his customary-.sportsmanlike man­Carnegie territory, only to lose the ball on -ner to shake hapds with ·coach Steffen, both Tech's fifteen-yard line. Toward the end of of ·whom are ·excellent friends. 
[39] 



Football R. e view of 1 9 ~ 5 

Notre Da!lle, 13: Northvvest.ern, 10. 
Let us all join in that little ditty: "They used to call .them 'Vildcats, but they act like kittens now.'.' The fighting Irish of Notrc Dame took. all the wild­ness out of Northwestern and made them look so small that .truly they were kittens after that great game on November 21. It did take the Rox a whole half to quell the fury of the Purple, but when they did .start the. actual .training process, they. performed the deed so thoroughly that it wasn't funny for Thistlewaitc's Thanes. 
It was a day such as you read about in books. The Notre Dame Bowl 
· ·was brimming over with 32,000 lovers of the game. · The crowd was most colorful. Gold and Blue and Purple strewn throughout the mass; the Notrc Dame band; the Northwestern band; our boys; Northwestern's boys-and girls-such was the setting for one· of the grea~est gam~s eve! played on Cartier Field. 
, 'Vhen the first half closed Northwestern had amassed the comfortable margin of ten points over our flaming zero. A beautiful kick from the forty-yard line by Tiny Lewis, Northwestern's ponderous fullback, gave the Purple a three-point lead in the first quarter. Notre Dame thought little of that, however. But when Gene Edwards fumbled e·arly in the second quarter and Big Tim· Lowry re­covered and crawled tl~ree yards over the goal for a touchdown, the skies darkened over the Dome. 'Vabash was the last team to win from Notre Dame on Cartier Ficl'd.· That was in 1905. 'Vas this record to be shattered by Northwestern? Not lJy a long shot-for Notre Dame characteristically came into their ·own in the third quarter. Two of the greatest drives of straight football ever seen were ex­hibited then. The two sorrel-tops, Gene Edwards and Tom Bearden, with Rex Enright and Christie Flanagan galloped around ends, ~wung off tackle and plunged through center and guard for nine .consecutive first downs and two touchdowns. 'Vhen the smoke cleared Notre Dame had thirteen points to Northwestern's ten.. 

Football Review of 1925 
Prove Right to Fighting Name by Great Game 
BY HARRY.MACNAMARA 
SOUTH BEND, Ind.-Notre Dame's foot-for an uninterrupted drive of twenty-five yards ball team has been characterized as Rockne's for a touchdown. Ramblers, Remnants, Troopers, and what not, The Irish had not achieved a first down dur­but after all their original monicker the ing the first half, but what they failed to do Fighting Irish, is the only one that des~ribes in the early part of the gam~ they made up for · with any sense of proportion the sheer bulldog at this point when it was necessary. determined spirit of the men that wear th~ Little Christy Flanagan started Notre Da~e famous Gold and Blue of Notre Dame. They on its way to victory by sprinting around h1s proved beyond any reasonable doubt today left end for a 25-yard gain and Notre Dame's that the man who nicknamed them the Fighting initial first down of the combat. Irish knew whereof he spoke. . Enright made two thrusts at the line for a 
The fighting spirit of the men of Notre gain of six yards, and then Flanagan slipped Dame in the face of impossible odds enabled through his left tackle, this time for fifteen th~ Irish to rise to heights supreme and turn yards and a first down on the ·wildcats' 38­what appeared to be sure and certain defeat yard line. Rearden, Flanagan and Enright into a thrilling, chilling, spectacular 13 to 10 punched through the line for another first down victory over the rejuvenated Wildcats of on three plays on the Purple 28-yard line. Northwestern. Enright repeated for five more at center, 
The g r e at e s t ..---------------·---.-------, a n d t h e n Christy t h r o n g that ever ~ 011 WilY went through his left; assembled within the wE ltRVE tackle, Johnny Me-· portals of historical q<IRffERS? Mullen, f o r e i g h t old Cartier Field, 32,-more and a-first down 000, saw the Fighting ? ~ 9 on the ·wildcats' 15­Irish stage what in all /,...: \ /// · yard line. Enright, 
probability was the t :-... 0~"'\. Rearden and Flana-: 
most s p e c ta c ular -l~~ gan made · it first 
rally that has ever down on the .. Purple
M 
been achieved on a ~~ four-yard I i n e o n 
football field. three t r i e s. Then 
It required all the Enright shot through fight, all the drive, center for a touch-power, passing and .. down. He also kicked everything else that goal for the extra the Irish could assem-point for placement. ble to put over their It was a marvelous 
magnificent victory. offensive, b u t t h e 
Northwestern was CARTER-u I r i s h w e r e n o t 
in there doing some through yet. They 
fighting on its own account, and the Irish won were in there to fight until they made victory only because they played like men possessed certain and· that is exactly what they did. during that already mentioned rally. · "Red", Enright and Rearden gained thir-
Northwestern, by playing smart football teen yards and a first down on two plays. and taking advantage of every break that came Flanagan got off on another one of his copy­its way, built up a very impressive 10 to 0 lead righted end· runs around left end, always during the first half.. The Notre Dame team around left end, for a 29 yard gain, and an­looked like a certain loser 'vhen it went to its other first down on the :Purp_le 17 yard .. line. dressing room for the rest period. He repeated for a gain· of twelve· yards rind a 
"'What happened in that dressing .. room first down on the Wildcat three yard line. En-probably will never be known. right was stopped while .. Christy was catching 
At all events, when Rockne's men came out his.breath. . for the second half· they played like they Then Flanagan drove off his IE~ft tackle, were possessed. They charged through, over Johnny McMullen, for the touchdown that and around the heretofore impregnable meant victory. Enright missed his "try for the Northwestern forward wall with terrific mo-extra 'POint, but it didn't matter anyhow. mentum. Northwestern managed.to keep Notre Dame 
It was a paralyzing, devastating drive, from scoring during the remainder of the which culminated in .two touchdowns and period and also during the final . quarter, ill­victory. · though ifs goal line was constantly menaced. 
Lewis kicked off to "Red" Hem~den, who Notre Dame had put over··enough points to win returned to his own 25-yard line. Then Notre and it didn't have to play any· more like the Dame began to fight as only a Notre Dame demons they were in that never-to-be-forgotten team can, and drove their way down the field third period. 
[41] 
. . . '·-!. 
Football Review of 1925 

Notre_ Dame, 0: Nebraska, 17 
Nebraska! Each year our crux! Here was our only obstacle for clear title to a \Vestern Championship. And ·we couldn't get over it, under it, through it or around it! \Ve were stopped. . 
The boys marched to the Cornhuskers' territory with Crowe and Flanagan on the hospital list. Just think-Crowe and Flanagan! Two men we certainly couldn't afford to be without. But even at that we were slated to win. Nebraska had lost two games to :Missouri Valley teams and had been tied by the \Vashington eleven from Seattle· after that team had made the two thousand mile trip to the Capitol City of Nebraska. In all the forecasts, however, une thing was overlooked. Nebraska, as in previous years, was pointing to the Notre Dame game. They rested on the Saturday before while Notre Dame was straining every nerve to trim the nails of the Northwestern \Vildcat. It was the psycho­logical moment for Nebraska's victory; they were ready for Notre Dame. The ·· Irish were travel-weary, tired, and broken, but, nevertheless, still fighting. 
The Cornhu;kers~ s'cored. twice in· the very first quarter. These touchdowns were made against Rock's second team and they -\vere too much for the first string boys to overcome. Then in the third quarter Big Ed \V eir, Ottr persecutor, placed the ball between the uprights for the three points that made the score 17. There is not much of a story to the game. Notre Dan1e -showed bursts of brilliant football and, in fact, we outfought Nebraska for the last three periods. ·The battle was ferocious throughout, but in spite of all the score stands: Nebraska 17, Notre Dame 0. 
The curtain falls. The first act of the .·career of another \Yonder Team is over! Hold fast to vour seats and watch Rockne and Notre Dame. The play is young. The coronation of another Champion Football Team at Notre Dame is not far off. \Vatch Rockne! \Vatch Our Lady's Team! 

RHODES GOING· THROUGH [42] 
Football R.e view of 1 9 ~ 5 
Huskers Take Early .Lead and Retain It 
By "\VARREN "\V. BROWN 
LINCOLN, Nebr.----:-The spirit of Thanh:giv­ing was abroad in the Nebraska stadium today and 45,000 spectators, the largest crowd that ever assembled in the gre~t open spaces be-between the Mississippi and the Sierra Nevada Mountains that guard the Pacific slope, saw the Cornhuskers give the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame a 17 to 0 trimming, for "'hich most of the 45,000 were duly thankful. 
Both of the touchdowns that Nebraska 
. scored were gained in the first quarter, before the "shock troops" had a chance to get on sociable terms with scarlet jerseyed, cream-helmeted Cornhuskers, and after that the Irish had never a chance, though they did come back and out-rush Nebraska for the last three periods. 
At no time during the game were the visitors within scor­ing distance, and if it hadn't been for a 26­yard placement goal booted across in the third quarter by Ed "\Veir, Nebraska's great tackle, the two touchdowns· charged against the "shock troops" would have ended the tallying. 
N o t r e D a m e couldn't score at all and wouldn't let the Cornhuskers s c o r e any mor!'!. And .that was the way it ended. 
T h e "s h o c k 
troops" had given uh-~~~~~~~~~~;;::::...:_______..QJmlL_:_j moved. the ball closer 
til it hurt and there . was nothing. the regulars ·could do about it. 
· \Ve don't know who furnished· the turkey for the Irish, Thanskgiving, but Nebraska certainlyprovided the trimming_. . . · . Incidentally the Huskers made true Coach Rockne's early season prediction that his team would lose two games· this year. Nebraska, which has had a season of ups and downs, closed brilliantly today as they opened bril­liantly several weeks ago against Illinois. If it hadn't been for weir's goal" the scores in both 
games would have been the same. So some­thing can be said for Cornhusker consistency. 
The running attack of the Irish didn't amount to much and the absent Christy Flana­gan, who viewed proceedings from the bench, was sadly missed by his mates. Once in awhile O'Boyle, Prelli, Rearden arid Endght would get going for marches, but sooner or later they banged into the fine Nebraska line and stopped. 
Noti-e Dame's passing wasn't' worth much to the Irish, though it helped Nebraska considerably, three of O'Boyle's tosses being 
intercepted, two by Daily. But one pass out of twelve was completed and it gained about a dozen yards. . 
Nebraska paid little attention to passing, trying but three, two of which connected for fifteen ya~ds each, and the last, a toss from Brown to A. Mandery, was "turned into the second Husker touchdown, the fleet back reel­ing off the final twenty yards before Notre Dame tacklers could lay hands upon him. 
The first touchdown was the result of the Huskers' taking full advantage of the high wind at their backs and the "shock troops" in .front of them. · 
Nebraska received the kick-off and on the first play from scrimmage Ed \Veir kicked and the ball carried to the Notre Dame four-yard line, where it bounded up in the air and stayed 
in the field instead of 
going over the goal 
line. 
A N o t r e Dame 
g u a r d was caught 
holding, and the ball 
was shoved back a 
yard from the goal 
line. Roach, trying 
to kick from behind 
his own goal line and 
into that strong wind, 
saw his effo1·t curl out 
around the posts ana 
curve out of bounds 
on his seven-yard line. 
. T'vo slashes by 
Rhodes,· the best of 
·the Nebraska backs, 
· to the line, and on his third try~ Rhodes carrie around ~is left end and galloped over for the. tou.chdown. 
· Ed \Veir kicked the goal.The. Huskers stai'ted right ·after another score and· were not. long in. getting it. They got the ball on. their own 49-yard line after Roach had .punted againstthe wind~ Rhodes clipped ·off ·fourteen yards around 
his right end arid. this dash was followed by a .neat· pass, Brown ·to A. Mander, the latter scampering through the· Notre Dame defenders 
for the touchdown. · 
Ed Weir kicked. ·that goal, too, and the folks from his home town of Superior, Neb., present to see him play. his last game, whooped it up in fine·.style. · . 
The '~shock tro.ops" were sent into solitary 
confinement right after this and the regulars 
took charge. 
· They were quite .proficient in the art of making first. downs, getting nine to Nebraska"s six, fom~ of ·which were at the expense of the young ni(m -\vho started. fo1;''Notre. Dame, but they .did not come much closer to scoring than did the "shock troops." 
[43] 
Football Review of 19f25 




The Prospects 
Notre Dame lost two games out of ten this .year~the Army, pointed on October 17th, defeated the Irish by 27-0, after Rockne had predicted that the team was too inexperienced 
. and green to stave off the Cadets. Nebraska, also worked up to a fighting degree, suc­ceeded in administering· a 17-0 beating at Lincoln on Thanksgiving Day. Two defeats in one season for Notre Dame! That is the worst year Rockne has eve~· experienced since he took the coaching reins from Jesse Harper in 1917, and ,'ve doubt if this record can be approached by any other coach in the country.. 
Of the twenty-six letter men this year, but six ·will be lost to the team for next year. That means that Rockne has twenty men of experience to answer l1is call next September 15th, and anyone who analyzes the fact that "Rock" lost but two games this year after losing the complete eleven of the National Champions of 1924, plus half of the second arid third teams to boot-twenty­two men in all-and then turn out a team that just mis~ed gaining the \Vestern Cham­pionship by the Nebraska defeat, after turn­ing back Northwestern, a team that tied for the Conference leadership with l\Iichigan; those twenty men appear likely material 
to duplicate their predecessors of '2,1. 
Captain Clem· Crowe and \Vallace, ends, will be replaced by "Ike" Voedisch, "Chile" \Valsh, (a brother of Adam \Valsh), Joe Rigali, Benda, and \Vhite. l\Ic:Mullen, who alternated with Boland will be the only tackle lost, and word comes that the Fresh­man squad. have wonderful prospects of pro­ducing candidates that will provide l\lcl\:Ian­mon, Boland, and Polisky stiff opposition next year. At guards, we still haye the clean­
. sl1aven "Smith Bros.", "Red" and "Johnny", with l\Iarelli and l\Iayer to help continue the work set by Hanousek who is graduated. Boeringer, the sterling center of this year's squad has a fine chance of again reappear­ing at the pivot position, '\vith Fredericks to aid him. The quarterback berth will again be well handled by "Red" Edwards, Parisien, Riley and l\IcNally; so no cause for any worry to Rockne about directors is apparent. Rearden, the other "Red" who 
will be alternating captain with Edwards, looks strong for another great year at right half, with assistance from Prelli and Dahman~ The left halfback position. will s·ce a wealth 
. of material with "Chris" Flanagan, Harry O'Boyle and John Roach emulating the Four Horsemen of 1924. The graduation of Rex Enright leaves a gap in the fullback berth, but Elmer \Vynne, a brother of the famous Chet \Vynne, seems capable of handling the job, 'with Freddy Collins~ l\IcCabe and Quinn pushing him. 
The wealth of material is apparent, and with such clay in the hands of the great Rockne, another team of championship calibre should be molded for 1926. \Vatch the glory of the '2,1 team be matched . by the "Fightin' Irish" of next year. \Ve predict a very success£ul season, . and extenp our deepest sympathy for those who have carded Notre Dame on their next ye~r's schedule. 
·I 
1' 

[44] 
Football Review of 1925 
Press Comments 
CRITICS BELIEVE NOTRE DAME WILL HAVE SECOND CHAMPIONSHIP ELEVEN 
That Notre Dame has another great football .team in the making, probably another aggre­gation of champions, is the opinion of many of the expert football writers assembled here Sat­urday to cover the Notre ·Dame-Baylor cont~st. 
According to Charles \V. Dunkley, sportmg -editor ·of the central division of the Associated Press, who covered the game for that great or­ganization "Rockne not only possesses one powerful t'eam, but has two of equal merit." 
Herbert Reed, staff correspondent for the Universal Service, in his report of the game, stated "Rockne apologized for his team before 
the game, and should have retracted it after­wards. These players know football from the ground up." · 
As Seen by Associated Press. In summing up the game Mr. Dunkley says: "The successors of the 'four horsemen,' ·charged· with reckless fury on Cartier field Sat­urday leaving no doubt that Knute Rockne, Notre' Dame's football genius, will develop an­other eleven that promises to make a desperate bid for the 1925 gridiron championship of America. "Notre Dame, undefeated· in 1924 and proud bearer of the na.tion's gridiron. title, made its season's debut with a 41 to 0 trmmph ·over Baylor University, of \Vaco, Texas, a vet­eran team that has not lost a game in the .Southwestern conference in three y'ears. "The southerners were completely smother­·ed in a brilliant attack that made Notre Dame's football reputation outstanding l_ast season. 
Two Powerful Teams. "The green, untried teanr that Rockn.e sent -onto the field, with only one veteran m the lineup, was the strongest on defense that has represented Notre Dame in several years and ·on the offensive revealed the speed and the :spirit of the 1924 squad. Rockne not only pos­·;sesses one powerful team, but .has two of equal strength. If he misses the noted ·quartet of Miller, Crowley, Layden,_ and Stuhldreher, he ·has another quartet in the making of Joe Prelli; Christy Flannigan, O'Boyle, Hearndon, half­backs, Enright and Hanousek, fullbacks, and Edwards and Scharer, quarterbacks." . 
Praise by Reed. 
Mr. Reed's analysis of· the game, copyright by the Universal News; is as follows: . 
"Notre Dame is still very much on the foot­ball map. Despite the exodus led by the famous four horsemen of a year ago, Knute Rockne still. has a flock of first-class football players. Of course they do not yet suit the exacting Rockne, but if their sho'\ving Saturday when they piled up 41 points against Baylor Univer­sity is any indication of what is to come, then .a lot more good football is coming out of South Bend. \Vith the exception of the center Notre 
Dame showed the making of a line that prom­
ises to be stronger than the forward wall of a 
year ago. 
"Notre Dame's forward passes from run­
ning formation went as well as the rest of the 
plays, and the little deception put ~n before 
thrusts into the line were also effective. Rock­
ne apologized for his team before the game, 
and should have retracted it afterward. These 
players know football from the ground up. 
Baylor's forward passes were '':ild heaves .be­
cause the passer was unmercifully hurried, 
while the Notre Dame passer in every case took 
his own good .time. . 
"Notre Dame is an eye-filler and no mis­take and one doesn't have to forget last year's tea~ either in oi·der to say so. It is a smart · bunch of football players, and Rockne has proved that he can keep right on his sound football path. It is a great coaching system, and this was a test of it. There are harder ones to come and although the team may be beaten later in' the season, it will take a lot of high 
class football to do it." 
His Four Horsemen scattered to the four 
winds by graduation, his "shock troops" whisk­
ed hither and yon in the same inevitable up­
heaval that comes to every college eleven, great 
or small sooner or later, Coach Knute Rockne 
of Notr~ Dame surveys the situation for 1925 
_;_not gloomy, but grimly determined. It is said 
he even smiles, occasionally. · 
Notre Dame still has the Irish. Notre Dame 
still has the fight. It is Rockne's hope to be able 
to· put the two together. He is not pessimistic. 
He couldn't be and be Rockne. But his feeling 
is far from one of optimism. 
By \VARREN \V. BRO\VN 
"You know, those boys surprised me," ob­
served Knute Rockne, after his new Notre 
Dame squad whaled the Baylor Bears in most 
thorough style. . . . 
\Veil maybe they DID surprise him, at 
that. Surprise because. they didn't score fifty 
points instead of forty-one. 
Rockne gdnne~ when he said it. The same 
sort of a grin you'll' notice on the face ·_of 
Houdini after he makes the elephant dis­
appear before your very eyes. 
There is something of Houdini about the 
Rockne system. There is no doubt of that. 
· The most interesting phase of th~ play of 
the new Notre Dame team was its smooth­
ness. 
· Remember that it was this team's first 
appearance as a team, and that after a matter 
of two week's practice. · 
Yet the performance was mid-October in 
its efficiency. ·Each man did his duty as he 
saw it, and each man saw his duty as he did it. 
All. in all, it was quite e1].tertaining . 
. By \VARREN \V. BRO\VN. 
[45] 
Football Review of 1925 

GHOSTS OF "FOUR HORSEMEN" RIDE AT NOTRE DAME TODAY 
SOUTH BEND, Ind.-The ghosts of the four horsemen of the gridiron rode Cartier Field to­day in the wake of the 1925 Notre Dame foot­bail team as it went into battle against Baylor University of ..Waco, Tex. 

An untried eleven, the greenest team Coach Knute Rockne has thrown into comb::~t in a de­cade was charged with upholding the laurels of a team conquered but three times in five yeflrs, unbeaten on its home field since 1905 and winner last vear at the anex of twentv-five years of successful football of a national cham­pionship. 
Gone are Stuhldreher. · Layden. Miller, C:rowley and the rest nf the wrtrdors with' whom Rockne made football history last venr; Only· one fan1iliar nnme was in the startinst linenn­t.hrtt of Captain· Clem Crowe, reserve end of· 
1924~ 
Crowe will stnrt. at left end todav. M~Mnllen pt l~ft: t::~r!'L-le. M.nrrelli at left. guard, McMan­mon at. rhrht tackle anrl Wallace ~t ristht. encl while in the backfield .Edwards will begin at nu;:~der. HP.arrlen at left half. O'Boyle at right half. and Enright at fullback. 
No all-American backs are waiting on the hench today to take at its crest .nnd turn for Notre Dame the tide of battle mminc:t th~ Tex­ans but Coach Rockne adhered to his plan on nther ye.nrs and used his c:tartin~r b~cks as shock troops. Hanousek at: fnllback. FhmaP"an at left half. Dahman at riP:ht half anrl Schare1· at nu:n·t.er are expected to supplant the c:tartinQ; b::~ckfielrl when the P"ame ,l!'ets under way with c:nbstitution of Boeringer at center a probabil­ity. 
ARMY AT THF. START REGARDED NOTRE DAME A MINOR RIVAL (Special to The New York Times.) 
'\VEST POTNT, N. Y.-How the .Army came into relationr-::hip with Notre Dame was re­lated today by Captain Reel O'Hare, former West Point star, who has returned to assist in the coaching of the linemen.· It appears that in 1!)12 or thereabouts. the schedule-mnking was left to the graduate manager, and Daly, who was then coach, requested that an effort be made to get a ~ood strong team for the mid-season date. Efforts were made to schedule Yale, Harvard and other big Eastern elevens, but without success, and finally the manager signed up Notre Dame. The South Benders were little known in the East at that time and Coach Daly was'considerably put out when he returned in the Fall of 1913. He dec:;ired 
a heavy game, and he didn't think that Notre
i,
::.. 
Dame had sufficient strength. As it turned out, however; it was 1 heavier than he looked. for, and the Westerners have been winning from the Army regularly ever since. 
(By the Associated Press.). NE\V YORK.-A determined Army mule turned two menacing. hoofs on the annual Notre Dame football invasion in an effort to stem a triumphant march which has crushed all opposition for more than a year on the gridiron. · 
. Eleventh Meeting. 
The meeting of these two major elevens of East. and Middle vVest in the Yankee Stadium marks their eleventh struggle. Only two of these contests have been won by the cadets-the games in 1914 and 1916. .In 1916 the Army piled up its highest score, a total of thirty points, all made by tlie hard-running Gene Vidal. 
Eight of the other nine games were won 
~ 
by Notre Dame, while the battle of 1922 was a scoreless tie. 
Notre Dame brought East a scoring ma­chine of high power, as yet untried against powerful opposition. The game presented the first big test for the new Rockne .team, a line-up made ·conspicuous by the absence of the famous "Four Horsemen"-Layden, Crowley, Stuhldreher and Miller. 
Army. Strong. Army, on the other hand, had a veteran macliine, heavy and powerful-an outfit claimed to be even stronger than the line-up which was· beaten in a close game a year ago by Notre Dame, 13-7. An attendance of 65,000 was expected, but the Cadet Corps was not perm~tted to come to New York. 
A PAST GLORY. 
\Vith the "Four Horsemen" out of college and with another football season lying ahead, there is greater interest than ever in the do­ings of the Notre Dame team. Having de­feated the three-time Southwestern cham­pions, Baylor, by a convincing margin, the fans are certain that Knute K. ·Rockne is on the road to turning out another wonder team. Probably not as speedy, capable or co-ordi­native as the national champions of 1924, but still able to bowl over .most opponents. That .J habit of Notre Dame teams-attaining mid­season form in October-will pile up early season wins and the result should mean a 
·fine morale for the last spurt. 
The terrific jolting given the Bears of Bay­
loi· by Rockne's Remnants, in the opening of 
the Western football season, was the most in­
teresting event of the day. of days. 
That ·41 to 0 plaster the troops of Notre 
Dame attached to the bedraggled hides of the 
Bears was the official notice to all interested 
parties that if RQckne hasn't another team at 
Notre Dame this year, then Paris ·hasn't a 
Frenchman ,Vi.thin its city limits. 
By WARREN W. BROWN 
[46] 
Football Review of 1925 
IRISH GRIDDERS FORGOT POINTS OF GAME, SAYS NOTRE DAME'S CLEVER COACI;I. 
(This was one of a series of articles by Davis J. Walsh on some of the leading football teams of the East and Middle West.} ·· 
lly DAVIS J. WALSH 
(1. N. S. Staff Corr'2spondent.) 
NE\V YORK.-Having mastered the trick ·of losing one football game, Notre Dame quite possibly will contrive to drop several· more before the end of the 1925 season, ac­cording to. a statement made to the writei.· by Knute Rockne, master coach, following the Hoosiers' defeat by the Army. It was their first defeat in two seasons but Rockne didn't think it would be their last. 
"\Ve are in for at least one more lacinoo within the next three weeks," declared Rockne~ "Next Saturday we play-Minnesota; the follow­ing week it will be Georgia Tech, apd then Penn State. Every one of them is a traveling date-Minneapolis, to Atlanta, to Bellefonte, Pa. · 
"It would take a first class football team to get away with that schedule and mine is far from that. They may say I'm only crying 'wolf,' but, really, I'm only. making a .state­ment of fact. I called the turn of the Army game, didn't I?" 
Forget Everything. 
. The writer assured Mr. Rockne. that he had. Four days before the game he intimated that Notre Dame would finish ·second. It did, but the thing was a gratuity. If they allowed three teams in one and the same contest, Notre Dame would have finished third. 
It proved to be the weakest Notre Dame outfit, by many yards, the East has ever seen although it probably was showing its worst and Rockne seemed to enter this idea. 
·. "The boys forgot everything they ever knew ~nd that was none too much," he said. ·"This IS the way of green teams since time im­memorial and. mi~e is nothing if not green. Only two sel!wrs m the outfit, Hanousek and Crowe. Incidentally, our early games were too easy. They gave the boys the idea that they were good when they weren't. · Army outplayed us from the first jump and deserved every one of their 27 points." 
Thoroughly Outplayed. 
"Brains/'. said Mr. Rockne. "Brains, that is the answer. \Ve had brains in there last year. I don't mean to say th~t' these boys are dumb. They just don't know. The·y may be good football players by the end of the season. Right now, ·they are little more than high school players." . · 
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS MEET ·DEFEATED PLAYERS TODAY (Special Service of the News.) 

. NOTRE· DAME,· Ind.-The Notre Dame student body, most of which was not fortunate enough to ·get to the Army-Notre Dame game to give moral and .vocal support to the team, will give the most elaborate.wel­come ever given. to a returning team here today. · 
The students witnessed play-by-play reports of the game on a gridgraph in the gym Satur­day, hardly believing what took place before. their eyes. The walls and rafters rocked from the cheerings and pleadings that continued up to the last· play. At the end of the game a deafening cheer ·was given for the \Vest Point warriors, followed by an even greater one for the defeated schoolmates. 
The rooters here were confident of victoi·y up_ to the third touchdown. As the Cadets marched down the field for the .first touch­down, there .were continuous cheers of "Hold 'em," many minds evidently .reverting to the Leland Stanford goal-line ·stand last New Year's Day. \Vhen the ball was· rushed over the line a groan went up followed by a minute of indefinite grumbling after which there was spontaneous cheering and applause for the ones who .drew first. blood. From then on to the end of the game the students put up probably as interesting a fight as the Notre Dame team itself. 
It appeared evident that the best of feeling exists between both teams. and their immediate followers and the sentiment many times ex­pressed by individuals after the defeat was, "Well, if we had to be· beaten, I'm glad it was Army rather than any other team." 

NE\V YORK.-The Notre Dame eleven in its .•'. play against a powerful and punishing Army outfit Saturday was nothing more than a com.:. bination in the process <?f makin_g. 
Rockne -has been building very carefully and deliberately. and the chances are that November games will see his work bear~ng fruit. As the writer pointed out more than three weeks ago, Rockne lacks players of natural ability such. as he has had in the past three yea·i·s. 
This applies to· the backfield more than to the line where one· may expect very radical improvement .in a short time now that the forwards have had their blooding, their short­comings-due chiefly to inexperience-re­vealed to . the coaches, as well as to them­selves.. 
· Rockne told the \vriter· sori1e time ago that Notre Dame· "\vould not be· hurried out of its ·stride for the Army game mid in this contest there was nothing to indicate'that it had beei1. 
[47] 
Footbazz·n·eview of 1925 
The range of plays was narrow indeed and even so· the backfield worked them more with the mood .and mien of men working out a lesson than of players proceeding with the sanction of belief in their stuff and confi­dent in the knowledge in their strength and ability. 
Now that Minnesota has been disposed of in a handy fashion Notre Dame can turn her attention to countering a tornado at Atlanta, Ga., this Saturday. The Minnesota victory goes a long way to effacing the defeat handed the Rox by West Point ·a week ago 
'· .last Saturday. The team and the students who made ·the trip to Minneapolis returned yesterday. A cele­bration of some kind will probably be held tomorrow night as the students were unable to get organized in time for one tonight. The game displayed one thing, that is, Rockne has the material and it is just a ques­tion of time until it can be polished to.· the finish and lustre displayed by the 1924 cham­pions. Enright for the first time this season gave a very, creditable performance at full­back. He exhibited that leg drive that hm; been so lacking among this year's backfield men. By LAWRENCE PERRY. 
CHICAGO HERALD AND EXAMINER 
Mingled with ·the roar .of the Nittany Lion will be the battlecry of the. Fighting ·Irish of South Bend. as-Penn State and Notre Dame Rtand embattled at State Colleg-e on Saturday. This is the . first appear:mce of Knute Rockne's dashing-henchmen on the soil of the Keystone State this season, perhaps it marks the first invasion of the successors to the Four Horse­men in this commonwealth. 
Neither of these rivalc::. meetinl:; in battle for the first time in football, has had the stelhn· season that marked their gridiron achievements in other and better years. Georgia Tech, over­thrown by the Hoosiers from South Bend. de­
feated the Lion on the Polo Grounds. Syra­cuse, ranking among the undefeated elevens of the country, also caused the surrender of Hugo . Bezdek and his minions. 
Meanwhile the Army is thP. onlv team that has triumphed over Rockne's battalionc::. That game came when West Point was on the crest of its wave _of glory. and Rockne was trying to polish iJ. green eleven into the customary efficiency that rules at Notre D~me. 
Since that time this eleven has gone con­sistently forward, tpe same dashing, ~laghing: ~ort. of outfit that Knute always gends from Indiana to compete ag"ainst the gridiron bat­tlers of the East and the West. Minnesota succumbed to the Hoosiers and the Golden Tornado .was as timid as a whisper, as the Hoosiers rode as roughshod over them as did their predecessors in the saddle of Notre Dame. 
CHICAGO HERALD AND EXAMINER Knute Rockne has long been heralded as­one of the football geniuses of the generation. Until Saturday we had never seen a Notre Dame eleven in action. Hence our knowledge of the Hoosier coach was obtained second-hand. But when one sees Notre Dame play, it is easy to conceive why Rockne is so successful as a coach. His team is so grounded . in fundamental football that it does the right thing at the proper time through sheer in­stinct. · Somebody has characterized genius as the ability. to .concentrate on the _details of life, a problem or a situation. Rockne has done this t(} such an extent that his team, equipped with brains, does the manual plays of football just instinctively, as a fighter borne to the canvas: comes up fighting. . Let us amplify on this Rockne capability. Saturday the battlefield at Penn State College was a morass. The day overhead was as in~ clement as yesterday, the going slimy, the arena a bog. It \vas a day when bad tackling could be excused, when fumbling was not to be too harshly treated and when blocked kicks. could be condoned. · Yet in sixty minutes spent in watching Notre· Danie we did not see one poor tackle by· the Fighting Irish. The thought smote us, sitting in· the press stand at Beave1~ Field, was that every coach in the East could well afford to attend a game played by Notre Dame on an off day for. his own college eleven. 
INTERFERENCE PERFECT. 
Take the fundamental of interference. N(} Notre Dame back should ever bump into his interference. He is drilled too well for that. The backs against State had timing and pre­cision -down to the nth degree of perfection. The interference formed automatically-and perfectly. It formed with such a minute at­tention to timing that the backs were promptly in motion. 
Opposition coaches say that they are to(} prompt, that they get into motion before the ball is snapped. But no penalty has been in­flicted on the Hoosiers for ·starting before the ball is put in play. Hence they must have per­fected that start so that they "can beat the gun" and get away with it. 
That is purely a question on which we have no opinion. But· we know that the timing, the formation of the interference and the start are such that when THE BALL IS SNAPPED THE \VALL OF INTERFERENCE KNOWS WHERE IT IS GOING AND IS ON-ITS WAY. 
Plays are co-ordinated, too, so that line and back-field inove as one machine. In other words, it is cohesive football that counts and that shows the marked influence of a coaching· system which stresses .fundamentals. Folks who watched the Villa Nova eleven against. Dickinson and saw them afterwards against St. 
[48] 
Football Review of 1925 
Joseph say that Stuhldreder, patterning after his boss, has brought the Main Liners to this !Same smoothness. This gloss and finish comes too, only because the men have been so ,grounded in fundamentals that everything they <lo is a natural and proper act. 
'With this eleven so smoothly polished in fundamentals, it is easy work for Rockne to teach them his ·system of offense. The system, too, is varied and diversified. It has speed, deception, and power, but is not one that essentially requires beef to execute. Thus "Ro.ckne chooses backs that are lithe, lean, and fast, durable without being unwieldly. 
To watch Notre Dame in action, is to see the finished ·product of a coach who has that faculty which enables him to teach funda­lnentals in such a manner that the knowledge js never lost by his pupils. 
They recover rapidly, these football teams. 
There's Illinois, beaten three times in the \Vest, returning to glory by slaughtering the 1nnocents of Penn. 
· There's Notre Dame, trampled on by Army, -coming back, Saturday after Saturday to play better football. 
It's all very interesting. But it's also very 1ntricate. 
· Notre Dame's case can be explained. Illi­nois' has been. 
At the start of the football season Knute "Rockne declared that he expected to lose two :games. 
He had Army in mind and said so. He has not designated the other, ·but probably bas in mind Nebraska, now, tho thought~ of Northwestern, before· injuries overcame the Wildcats,· must have made Knute's knob a little balder. 
It will be the seventh time these rivals have met on a football field. Notre Dame has won four games, Northwestern one and the other -ended in a scoreless tie. The ·wildcats are -conceded an excellent chance to beat the Irish tomorrow. · If they do, it will be the second time in the history of Cartier Field that the Irish have lost on their own battle ground. Wabash holds the only victory, achieved in 1905, that has ever been registered against "Rockne's men on their own field. · 
By \VA~REN ·w._ BRO\VN. 
· NOTRE DAME, Ind.-=-Knute K. Rockne's football army, 1925 edition, passed in review before a critical mob of 27,000 home-comers, the largest that.ever assembled at Cartier Field here today. The review was a. great. success and the fighting IriEh crushed Carnegie Tech 
26 to 0. 
Great players come and go at Notre Dame. It is doubtful, however, if any of them ever disported themselves better than Christy Flana­gan did today. Elmer Layden of .the famous 
Four Horsemen and many other former Notre Dame stars saw Christy do his stuff. Flanagan · played a marvelous game. 
It should occasion no surprise if the Notre Dame team went through the rest of its sea­son undefeated. 
Mr. Flanagan and the supporting cast seem to be able to find their way around Minneapolis, Atlanta and those kind of places, if not as spectacularly as the late, Four Horsemen, at least in a manner that looks satisfactory when it is set forth in score-board numbers. 
By HARRY MACNAMARA; 
One hundred and thirty-five candidates re­ported for first day's Freshman football prac­tice at Notre Dame. 
Coach George Keegan strung the troops out in line. "All of you who want to try for center, step 
forward," he invited. About half a dozen left the line. "Ends?" Perhaps fifteen more stepped out. "Guards and tackles?" A dozen moved· forward. 
· "Backs?" The line, still nearly 100 strong, jumped forward; 
That condition may be peculiar to Notre Dame, and may not. The backfield of 1924, Crowley, Layden, Stuhldreher and Miller, designated the Four Horsemen, undoubtedly gathered in more praise, oral and written, than any other set of backs in football history. So Freshmen, who aren't supposed to know much, in a football or any other way, ac­i cording to a sophomore :friend of ours, cannot be blamed for wanting to make a bid for glory·, and make it by a short cut, if necessary. 
Later on it will come to those youngsters il at Notre Dame that Adam \Valsh, a center, ;I '! drew his share of praise for his valiant deeds on the football field that "Chuck" Collins and Joe Bach, an end and a tackle, are names not easily forgotten. , 
Those freshmen are victims of the belief that the world watches the backfield, the lads who carry the ball; that the world doesn't 
.give a whoop about the linemen. · And the 
,,
sad part of it is that the the freshmen are not e~tirely wrong. If this be treason, sophomore friend, then make the most of it. 
:.I'· 
Getting back to Notre Dame's problem, Coach Keegan, if he cares, might recite to his troops the truth of the famous struggle with Stanford last New Year's Day. 
It is a matter of history that the Notre Dame backs, especially Crowley and Layden, won the game. 
But it is equally a matter of history that the Notre Dame line, battered and bruised weary and worn, SAVED the game. '. 
So there IS honor for a line-· and USE for. it: frP.shmen. By WARREN .\V. BROWN 
[49] 
Football Review of 19~5 
ROCKNE PASSES OUT SUGAR­TWO LUMPS TO EACH PLAYER REPLACES TRADITIONAL HASH 
· At least one of the myriad of legends, some true, some ridiculous, to which the foot­ball coaching tactics of Knute Rockne, Notre Dame athletic director, have given rise finds sound basis in modern dietetics. 
One of football's ever-recurrent mysteries to spectators is what really transpires in dress­ing rooms between halves of any game, but especially at the intersectional combats which for several years have been the weekly task of Notre Dame gridiron squads. 
The canny individuals who, after a first half not so brilliant as is the team's wont, accompany with a knowing wink their con­vincing conjectures of "I'll bet Rockne is lay­ing the lash on those guys" would be some­what surprised. They would see the Notre Dame mentor filing in and out among the benches of the dressing room, bestowing a paternal pat on the back here and a friendly suggestion there, but invariably handing his perspiring athletes, whether they be illustrious "Horsemen" or the veriest tyros, a couple of lumps of sugar. 
The methods of company commanders in reviving tired troops after long marches by judicious use of sugar, milk chocolate and con­centrated carbohydrates have been trans­planted by· the intrepid Rockne to the foot-. ball dressing 1·oom. The results are effective. 
Strict, sensible conditioning of good mate­rial, expert field generalship, inst!intly' formed interference behind perfectly timed plays, con­stant maintenance of a triple threat, and, not the least important-two lumps of sugar be·­tween halves-seem to be the components of the Rockne mystic poti~n for gridiron pre­eminence. 
BiLLY EVANS SAYS OF ROCKNE SYSTEM 
Coach Knute Rockne of Notre Dame is a mighty original cuss. Many football innova­
ll tions have been due to the ingenuity of his 
ttl brain. 
I"'I Several years ago Ro'ckne surprised ·the 
'I:j! football world by starting practically an entire second team in a very important game. There=_;~l· was a method in Rockne's ~adness. 
i] 
I By so doing Rockne forced the firstI stringers of the opposition to expend their 
:j 
energy against his substitutes, while his regu­
il 
lars were conserving their strength on the
i
;. sidelines. Aside from the physical benefit to his stars, 
the element of psychology also figured strongly.ll The moment the subs began to waiver, Rockne ~I ;; would rush in his regulars. F If the opposition, despite every effort, had!: been unable to score on the second stringers,li· it certainly didn't help their morale to have 
the stars rushed into the fray, just when it
I! 
11 looked as if a touchdown was in sight. 
If
h. 
HUSKERS PLAN GREAT WELCOME FOR IRISH SQUAD 
LINCOLN, NEB.-The Nebraska student body, daily becoming more aroused in anticipation of the big football contest of the year, that with Notre Dame on Thanksgiving Day, is planning a monstrous rally for Knute Rockne and his Notre Dame footballers on the eve of the Turkey Day clash between the two schools. 
Rockne and his teams are favorites· with Nebraska students, who delight in giving a rousing welcome to the Indiana gridsters. They _ now are planning to make their 1925 reception outdo that of former years. 
The rally, which will start on the university campus, will gain momentum until it comes to a halt at the Lincoln hotel, the home of Rockne football men while they are in this city. A torchlight parade will be held and Notre Dame will be cheered as Nebraska will 
-r
be cheered. 
ROCKNE LIKES IRISH SHOWING­NOTRE DAME COACH NOT DOWN­CAST AFTER DEFEAT BY NEBRASKA 
Coach Knute Rockne of Notre Dame,·here yesterday for· the Loyola-Haskell game, wasn't a bit do'\vncast over the result of the meeting between .the Fighting Irish and Nebraska on Thanksgiving Day. 
"The boys were pepless," he said. "I guess they were tired after the strenuous season they had been through. _ "We did pretty well this year, though, when you stop to consider .that we played. through a hard schedule without a punter or a passer." 
SOUTH BEND, Incl.-Northwestern's wild­est troupe of Wildcats will collide with the Rockne troops of Notre Dame at Cartier Field tomorrow in what promises to be the most brilliant western football game of the season. 
The greatest throng that ever assembled within the portals ·of the ·historic playground of the. Fightit:tg Irish is expected .to ·occupy every ·available point of. vantage ·when the rival teams trot on the field for battle. At least 30,000, all that can· be accommodated, will be jammed into the inclosure. · 
By HARRY MACNAMARA. 
SOUTH BEND TRIBUNE 
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn.-Notre Dame, smart­ing under its defeat by the Army last week looked more like a Knute Rockne tec1m today and displaying a strength that reached its cul­mination in the last quarter, easily took Minne­sota into camp, 19 -to 7. . 
[50] 
li
,j 
jl 
'i :' I' .I 
;I 
q
li 
Football Review of 1925 

Special Articles 
B,lJ 'VAnnEN ,V. BnowN 
Sporting Editor Chicago Iferald and Examiner, and proud father of Bill Brown, Notre Dame 194-8. 
'Vhat's_ this, a review of 1the _football season? 
Take a large gob o-f mud, a· dash of rain, sprinkle with snow, garnish with fumbles, and season with upsets. pse well bef~re shaking. 
If General Sherman thought war was what he said it was, he should have covered the 1925 football season. 
Before taking up my reservation in the nearest daffy house, I'd try and run through some of the things that took place on the gridiron this fall, and endeavor to make better progress than a lot of the boys did in this, the Yea·r _of the Big :Mud. 
The best come-back any team showed, I think, was that of Notre Dame, which returned to glory after a dismal day against the Army. The season was largely an experimental one for Coach Rockne, and, as far ~s I know, he was still doing laboratory work with his backfield and his line in the final weeks of the season. Incidentally, neither you who read this, nor I· who write, will have a beard down to his knees before the day arrives when Rockne will take an­other Notre Dame team against Army and make Army wish that. the Cadets who licked the Irish 27 to 0 had never been born. I :...m not given to making football predictions. But this one, I trust, will be excused, all things considered. 
The qest line I saw all year, was :Michigan's; and the funniest-n~xt to Bugs Baer's which is All-American-was the one that Illinois sent against Nebraska. 
Incidentally, Coach Zuppke whipped that line of his into· shape in wonderful style, and wl1en it faced l\lichigan it was almost perfection. Against Pennsylvania, it was perfection. On that day, Illinois was the finest team in the United States. This statement will not draw cheers from the Dartmouth alumni, but it is an honest opinion, nevertheless. 
Thebest end I saw all season was Benny Oosterbaan, of l\Iichigan. There wasn't a yard 
made around his end all year, and his catching of f~rward passes was marvelous..He made 
some impossible g_rabs of tosses from Benny Friedman, and he must have set a season's rec­
ord for intercepting passes from the enemy. 
The best line plungers I saw were "Five Yards.. :McCarty of Chicago, and "Battering 
Bo.. Molenda, of Michigan. 
·Ed 'Veir of Nebraska continued to be all that I craved in a tackle, though Tom Edwards 
!lf l\Iichigan, in the one game I saw him play, against Ohio was a pip. 
The biggest disappointment to me was Chicago's defeat by Penn. It didn't seem possible, 
and after the Illinois game, I was more at a loss, than ever to lmderstand how Chicago lost. 
The most sensational performance, of COllrS e, was that of "Red.. Grange against Penn. 
When he took Penn in hand, he wrote football history the east will never forget. 
So much for that part of the review. Now for the more important statistics. , 
The game that put most snow down the back of my neck, and froze my toes most, was Illi­
nois vs. Penn. · 
The rainiest day was Illinois and Chicago. The muddiest was l\Iichiga~ and Northwest­
ern, with Illinois and Chicago, Chicago and Penn, and Illinois and Penn tied for second place. 
x-The happiest day was the day after Th-anksgiving. · 

x-Any renders who want to. know why may reach me at the Chicago Herald and Examiner. But iC I happen to be out or the office when you write, or. call, the nnsw.er is: Because that's all there is, there is no more. 
Deo gratias, as we Latin scholars or St. Ignatius University, San Francisco, are wont to say, as we learn that the wrestling match betw.een Strangler Ed Lewis, and Oscar Vladivostock Pumper­schmaaltz, the Bolivian champion, has been called off on account or perspiration. 
It wasn't the heat, this football season. It was the bromidity. 
[51] 
Football Review of 1925 
Chicago, Ill., Dec.____ 1925. 
1V1R. KNuTE RocKNE, 
Notre Dmne Unive;:sity, 
South Bend, Ind. 
DEAR RocK: 
No doubt you are now figuring out a schedule for yo\.1r 1.926 football team and will appreciate some help and suggestions. It has been my belief that in the past your team has been too much at home and in that way the players have had their minds taken off of football because of the interrup­tion of class room work. I know when I was down there last .fall I noticed that all of your men were carrying books under their arn1s and rushing from one class to another during the day. Naturally they can not read text books and keep their minds on football at the san1e time so I have figured out a prospective schedule of eight games for next year that should eradicate this trouble. 
I would suggest that you open the season in early October with some easy game, say a contest at home against Mr. Yost's Michigan eleven. That 
. will give the students a chance to see what·you have. The following week, you might have a game booked at Palo Alto, Cal., against Leland Stanford and that would just top your team off f01~ the annual game against the Army the next week in New York. 
For your fourth game, you might take the boys out to Berkley, Cal. for a soft game against the University of California and then for the fifth con­test, I should like to see you stack up agaipst that University of Alabama outfit which raised so much Ned this year. After you had given them a les­son in the game, your team would be well· primed for a coi1test against the University of \Vashington at Seattle. From there, I would suggest you take your gang to Hanover, N. H. and tackle that champion Dartmouth aggre­gation. I would just like to see if they can shoot those p~sses agaii1st your boys. · 
After that combat is over, you should bring the fellows back to Notre Dame for the final and homecoming game and perhaps it should be against some easy team, say like Nebraska. In myopii1ion, such a schedule not only would keep your players thinking of little else but football, but it would enable all of the experts to get a good line on the relative merits of eastern, far-western, southern and mid-western football. 
Respectfully yours, . J at;nes Crusinberry 
P. S.-Say Rock, you can see that by winning all the games of such a sched-·· ule, your team would in all probability be in afair way to clain1 some kind of a champions.hip. ·· 
[52]. 
I 
Football Review of 1925 
The Reserves 
\Vhen the last lingering echo of the punt­er's spank against the pigskin has been wafted away, the curfew gun has cracked, the crowd gives one .last cheer for. the victors. There's praise for the satillites, for the men who played· the opposition on that field that Saturday; but never do we stop to think of the men who keep those stars in shape; those who slave that others may perform; the men who "play the game" every other day of the week so that the more favored may be victorious. These men are the Reserves~ 
Night after night until the darkness has cast it's long fingerlike shadows from the church steeple over toward the east these men are working out, taking the hardest knocks; learning; fighting. ·when the cleated shoes clank, clank, over the wooden floor toward the showers there are bruised bodies; evidence of their faithfullness, slaving that when their school calls them they may be ready. This is the material from which wonder teams are molded. This is the championship stuff; these are the men. 
The Reserves inagurated their season by travelling to Albion and handing the collegians there the short end of a 40 to 20 tally. East Chicago presented their next opposition but the Reserves blanked them and when the dust of 
·the. battle was cleared away the score boards read: Reserves 18, East Chicago 0. Straight football won the game easily for the reserves when they faced the Kokomo American Legion team and turned the State Pro Champs home­ward with a 13 to 7 count. The next tangle was way down south in D~xie. The Reserves ac­companied the Varsity t~ A~lanta and th~n penetrated two hundred miles mto the Geor~Ia hinterland to meet the strong Camp Benmng aggregation. This jaunt was longer than most conference teams have ever taken and the squad reported a great time. Smythe, a form~r All-American and several ex-Army stars flashed as the Soldiers downed the Blue and Gold 27 
to 6. -It was all that St. Ambrose College could manage to do when it nosed out the Irish at Davenport by a 16 to 14 pointage. 
The roll call of the stars of this year's re­serve outfit gives promise of a wealth of first­rate material for next years varsity squad. From reserves-to rotogravures is the path that most of these men will follow. Just between ourselves you can watch for these to perform in peerless fashion next fall. At the wing posi­tions "Dog" White, Dan Moore, Tom Byrne and Frank Keefe will be up among the best. McAdams Graf, and Joe Reidy turned in about / the best 'account at tackle. In the guard's shoes it's hard to beat George Leppigg, Harry Ryan or Kelly. At the pivot post Big Frank McCarthy has the call over the field and much can be expected of this huge Irish­man as September rolls into sight. Hieing back into the ball-carriers territory we find a ple­thora of material. Probably Joe Morrissy will look best in the signal calling_ job although McDermott runs a close second. Halfbacks are always important and we'd pick Chevigney and Ed ·walsh as the best in this post..Both should be good for a great season. Fred Collins is the boy that is expected to "go up" fast next fall. There will be a need for a first class fullback and it is doped that this white head is the man for the.post. We should also give Eddie Collins mention. Eddie played a great game of foot­ball but was injured at the start of the season. However, he is looked upon as one of the best bets for the 1926 team. These are the men that 
should go up with the big guns next se~son with a capital G. There are a great many more stars in the Reserve ranks. It has been especial­ly hard to make these predictions because of the wealth of a class A material. Every man of the Reserves deserves a world of credit. As a team they have had a very successful season. 
·when passing out· credit don't forge't that these are the men. 
Reserve Record 
Reserves ........................................ 40 Albion ........................................... 20 Reserves ........................................18 East Chicago ...................... .......... 0 Reserves ........................................13 Kokmno An1erican Legion .......... 6 . Reserves ......................................... 6 Camp Benning ............................ 27 Reserves ........................................ 14 ,St. An1brose ··--······:·········----·····--·16 
Personnel 
En~ls: Tom Byrne, Frank Keefe, "Dog" \Vhite, Dan :Moore, Eddie Collins, Joe 
lknda. TacHes: Bennie ?\IcAdams, Graf, Dickie, Joe Reedy, Hogan. Guards: Leppig, LeStrange, Kelly, Harry Ry.an, Red Brown, Gavin. Centers: McCarthy, \Vhalen, Feskie. Quarters: Morrissey, McDermott. · . Halves: Ed \Vnlsh, Chevigney, :i\IcSorle)·, Hurley, Trombley. Fullbacl,·s: Collins, Shields; McCabe, Quiim. · 
[53] 
. 
I 
l 
1 
I 
Football Review of 1925 

Freshman Football 
A WEALTH oF MATERIAL for next year's. varsity will be gained from. this year's Freshman squad. Under the able tutelage of George Keogan and \Vilbur Eaton, the coaches, these men scrimmage the varsity day in and d~y out, and all they get for their pains is liniment. Each week they are assign.ed the· task of changing their style of attack and defense to conform with the· opponent next listed on the varsity schedule. Signals are always temporary, and ·it takes a smart lot of boys to perform in a manner that will afford opposition and practice for the strong varsity regulars. These fellows are unappreciated, yet the condition and keen diagnosing of the opponents' teams by the varsity is due to them. 
True, a few trips sen·e to lift the burden and repay in a sm·all way for. their efforts, sacri­fices, and trials, but they suffer untold hardships in the way of carrying injuries throughout the season because of inattention; and with everyone a newcomer, fighting against the man at his side for a glance or word of approval from Rockne. The lo-t of the freshmen is . a hard one, but they grin and. bear it and in their sophomore year 'they look back upon their fresh­man football days and smile. There were almost two hundred freshmen who answered the first call for candidates and although most of these men· were cut before the end of the season there were many who stayed and who acquitted. themselves nobly. 
I 
. r
They were out on Cartier field every day and learning something new all the time. First it was practicing the Army plays, then the famous :Minnesota shift, then the Georgia Tech hop and so on .until the varsity had a good idea of how these plays worked. 
\Vhen one looks at the freshmen football record and sees one game won and three lost, they will say that the freshmen must be a pretty poor bunch this year. But such is not the case. The freshmen are so. busy learning and unlearning the different modes of attack that they have no time to. perfect an attack of their own and thus must face other teams with only . a defense to rely on. The freshmen lost to the powerful Lake Forest Acadeniy football team . 6-0, but one glance at· Lake Forest's record will tell that they were the best Prep football team in the country. Lake Forest defeated the best Princeton team in Princeton history· 13-0 so Notre Dame showed great strength and pro mise in holding them to a 6-0 score. On the next day an entirely different team went down to defeat before the· strong Kalamazoo Col-. lege team, one of the best of the small college teams in :Michigan. The squad won their first victory over Valparaiso College 19-0 and showed wonderful spirit and form to defeat this strong team. In 192•1 Valparaiso had held the great Centre College team to a 0-0 score. The freshme.n showed wonderful promise in this game and in Cohick, a splendid end, :Miller, a fine taclile, Reilly, a fast .halfback, :Monahan, a center, and J anecki, fullback, unearthed some future 'varsity material. 
The final game of the season was lost to the strong Kokomo team by a 13-9 score. The freshmen showed some splendid playing in this game and only for some bad breaks would have emerged with a victory. The Kokomo team was composed of former college stars, and i they marvelled at the strength ·of the freshmen team. So we see the freshmen season, accord­-1 ing to a percentage·rating, wasn't so good, but on the basis of experience it w~s a complete i success. The team received much valuable coaching and also a touch of the famous Rockne .l 
1 
system. Next year, when Rockne starts to work on• the men they<\vill be well versed in his system and they will be able to·adapt themselves to his coaching ·more quickly than if they had nof gone out for the freshmen squad. 
Some of the men who showed up bett~r than the average during the season were 9olrick, Vesey, Snell, l\Iurphy, \Veibel and Duperier, ends; l\Hller, Cameron,. Ransavage, Powers, l\Ic­Loughlin, Bee and Nash, tackles; Christman, George, Cook, Law, Fishback and Lock, guards; l\Ionahan, Fitzpatrick and Plumier, centers; and a fine array of backs including l\IcKinney, al­though injured early in the season, Crowe; Hughes, 1\Iaher, Reilly, Bray, Niemic, Bunker, Jan­ecki, Ernst, Bern, Lynch and Coogan. 
,. The 1925 freshmen football season is over and the world is none the wiser but there were 
i 
many good men and before some of them leave Old Notre Dame their marks will have 
been made· and the freshmen team will have done its work. 
[54] 
·. 
Football Revie·w of 1925 
Notre Dame's Football History 
Notre Dame started football in 1887, when they played Michigan· in the only game of the year.. Michigan was victorious, 8-0. In 1888 Notre Dame played three games, losing two and win­ning the other. Michigan again repeated by a score of 26-6. In the next three years Notre Dame was undefeated, and since have been on the top or near the top of the football world. From 1894 to 1902 Notre Dame had fair teams, but in 1903 Red Salmon blossomed out with an undefeated year, and since then the Irish have had eight undefeated seasons. The 1909 team is famous in Notre Dame history and is known as' the Michigan goal post team because of the traditional playing of "Red" Miller and Pete Vaughn. The team of '13, captained by Rockne, and with Dorais as quarterback, started that string of amazing· victories over the Army, and first brought Notre Dame to the attention of Ea.stern fans. That uncanny forward passing comqination of Dorais to Rockne literally stood the army on their heads, and resulted in a 35-13 victory. · This game is regarded as the greatest upset that ever occurred in the East, and showed the potentialites of the forward pass as an offensive weapon. In 1914 the team lost to both Army and Yale, but in 1915 the Army again tasted defeat by a score of 7-0. In 1917 K. K. Rockne· appeared as coach and George Gipp began his· fa­mous career. The next four years, with these two as mainstays, established a great record in the gridiron sport. Gipp's great playing against the army and Nebraska in 1920 established him as one equal to Heston, Thorpe, and other All-Time All-Americans. In 1921 Notre Dame had a wonde1:ful team, but lost an early-season game to Iowa, 10-7 in a great battle, then proceeded thru the rest of of the season undefeated with one of the great­est lines ever on one team. Since 1921 Notre Dame has been blessed with good· material and in the hands of the capable master, Rockne, proved to be· consistently one of the best i~ the country, their greatest achievement being reached in 1924, when the far-famed "Four Horsemen" garnered glory and a national cha :npiom:hip, a rare distinction in these days of startling upsets, and muddy fields. 
Notre Dame's Football Record Year Captain. Coach. w. L. T. 1887 Henry Luhn None ........................................................ 0 1 0
-------·----··----·-······· 
1888 Edward Prudhomme .......................... None ------........................................... 1 2 0 1889 Edward Prudhomme None ......................................................... 1 0 0
Coody________ :_____________·____
1890 P. H. None ............................................... 1 0 1 1893 F. M. Keough .......................................... None .. .................................................. 4 0 0 1894 F. M. Keough ............................................. None .. ........................................................ 3 2 0 1895 Daniel v. Casey ....................................... None .................................................... 3 1 0 1896 F. E. Hering ................................................... F. E. Hering .. .............................. 4 3 0 1897 John I. Mullen .......................................... F. E. Hering ......................... 4 1 0 1898 John I. Mullen ................................... F. E. Hering .. ............................... 4 2 0 1899 John I. Mullen ........................................... F. E. Hering .. ............................. 6 3 0 1900 John E. Farley ................................ Patrick O'Dea .. ............................ 6 3 1. 1901 A. c. Fortin ............................................ Patrick O'Dea .. ........................ 8 1 1 1902 L. J. Salmon ........................................... James Faragher .. .................. 5 2 1 1903 L." J. Salmon ........................................... None .. .................................................... 8 0 0 1904 F. J. Shaughnessy ............................... Louis Salmon .. ............................ 5 3 0 1905 Patrick A. Beacon ................................ Henry McGrew .. ...................... 5 4 0 1906 R. L. Bracken ........................................... Thomas Barry .. .......................... 6 1 0 1907 D. L. Calicrate ............................................ Thomas Barry---------------6 0 1 1908 Harry Miller ............................................. Victor Peace .. ............................... 8 1 0 
____________ 7
1909 Howard Edwards .................................... Frank Longman 0· 0 1910 Frank Dimock ........................................... Frank Longman .. ................... 4 1 1 1911 Luke Kelly .................................................. L. H. Marks .. ................................... 6 0 2' 1912 Charles Dorias ........................................... L. H. Marks .. ................................. 7 0 0 1913 K. K. Rockne .......................................... Jesse Harper .. .......................... 7 0 0 1914 Fred K. Jones .......................................... Jesse Harper .. ............................. 6 2 0 1915 F. Fitzgerald ........................................... Jesse Harper .. .............................. 7 1 0 1916 Stan Cofall ........................................... Jesse Harp.er .. ................................ 8 1 0 1917 James Phelan ............................................ K. K. Rockne ... ............................. 7 1 0 1918 Peter Bahan ............................................ K. K. Rockne .. ............................. 6 1 0 1919 Peter Bahan ........................................... K. K. Rockne .. .................................. 9 0 0 
'1920 ............. ________ .. _., __
Frank Coughlin K. K. Rockne .----------------10 0 0
19.21 
Eddie Anderson .................................. K. K. Rockne ----------------10 1 0 1922 Glen Carberry .......................................... K. K. Rockne .. ............................ B 1 1 1923 Harvey Brown ....................................... K. K. Rockne .. ........................... 8 1 0 .,1924__ Adam Walsh ......................................... K. K~ Rockne ------------·---10 0 0 1925 Clem· Crowe ........................................... K. K. Rockne ............................ 7 2 1 Total Games, 267; Won, 215; Lost, 42; Tied, 10. 
[55] 
[lootball Review of.1925 
Rock's Greatest-Team 
·wherever Notre Dame fans gather and whenever Notre 'Dame students talk football, the question as to which of .Rock's teams was the best is asked. The 1919-20 eleven of Gipp's, Ed­die Anderson's outfit in 21 and ·walsh's National Champs of .'24 are Rock's outstanding teams. The teams of '17 and '18 were good but football in these years was not of the quality of foot­ball played after the war. The '22 and '23 teams were good but were only stepping stones to the 1924 outfit. Let us look over the records of the '19, '20, '21 and '24 teams. The 1919 team led by the immortal Gipp, swept through undefeated, crushing Nebraska, Army, Purdue and Indiana on the way to an undefeated season. The 1920 team also led by the immortal Gipp crushedNebras­ka, Army, Purdue, Indiana and Northwestern for a second straight undefeated season. Gipp's performance at the Army when N~ D. won 27-17 was wonderful. The Notre Dame team of these two years was built around Gipp and were more of a one-man team than any of Rock's outfits before or since. However we can safely .say that the 1919-20 team produced Rock's and Notre Dames greatest individual star with all due respect to "Red" Salmon, "Red" Miller, Eicken­laub, Rockne, Layden, 'Valsh and others too numerous to mention. 
The 1921 team composed of a line that included Kiley, Hunk and Eddie Anderson, Ed. Garvey, .Buck Shaw, Dooley, Larson and Merhe and a hackfield of "Chet" Wynne, Mohardt, Castner and 
Grant swept aside .all opposition except Iowa and despite its one defeat was generally recog­
nized by critics as the best football team in America; Purdue, Nebraska, Army, Rutgers, In­
diana, Haskell and Marquette were included in their victims. A great Nebraska team fell 7-0 and 
inside of four days Army and Rutgers fell by 28-0 and 48-0 score respectively. The critics in 
the. east were amazed by the play of the Notre Dame line and Kiley, Ed and Hunk Anqerson and 
Buck Shaw were picked on practically all the all-star teams. Kiley and Anderson were heralded 
as the greatest pair of ends eve·r gathered together on one team, and Buck Shaw and Hunk An­
derson were granted to be great linemen. 
Fans are still trying to explain the Iowa defeat, but in this game Notre Dame gained five yards to Iowa's 2 and were right on Iowa's goal line when the game ended. The line this year was considered as Notre Dame's greatest line, a1nd Nebraska· and Army will sadly second this motion. The East hasn't recovered ·from the shock yet, of seeing Army and Rutgers trimmed in such a short time and in such a decisive way. The Army lost 28-0 and the periods we're cut to ten minutes each. 
The record of the 1924 team is too fresh in our minds to need recounting here and it is enough to say that they swept the country from 'end to end and there ,\>as nary a team to say them nay. From the Atlantic to the Pacific, from the Northwest to the sunny south, the seven mules and four hoursemen smashed everything before them and climbed to the undisputed title of national champions.· 
. The Notre Dame backfield of Crowley, Miller, Layden and · Stuhldreher was unsurpassed in all football history and their deeds will live forever in the hearts of Notre Dame men. Grant­land Rice 'famous words "The Four Horsemen"·aptly described this quartet and they will be. for­ever known as the four horsemen. How we would like to see the four horsemen ride· again. In describing the Army game of '24 Rice starts off with "Outlined against a blue, gray October sky the four horsemen rode again." What would we do if we could see them ride again? The 1924 team had Notre Dame's best backfield, so take your pick, folks. Would you pick the 1919­20 team with the immortal Gipp, the '21 team with its wonderful line or the '24 national cham­pions with its incomparable "four horsemen"•. 
Ever since football started there has been one continuous debate as to whether a backfield, a line or a star makes a team. As far as Notre Dame is concerned the debate is a tie. Rockne has had a wonder ·team with one superman on it,a marvelous team with an all-star .line and a national championship team with the immortal pions 'vith its incomparable "four horsemen"? 
In the near future Rockne will probably turn out a team combining all these three essentials and then, I'll leave it to the reader's imagination. . 
The 1925 team can't be considered in a class with the aforementioned teams but the 1926 team has a splendid chance ·to be classed with "Rock's" greatest teams and may be. "Rock's" greatest, greatest team. ·Practically the entire team will be back intact and we may see an­other championship team. Clem Crowe, John ·wallace John McMullen, Rex Enright, Hanousek and Lew Cody will be the only monogram players to be lost by graduation and there remains 
20. letter men returning to be moulded by "Rock" to offer opposition for the Army, Indiana, Penn State, Southern California, Minnesota and Northwestern. 
[56] 
I,. 
Football Review of. 1925 
--: r~~ _.-. ·····; . ­
The Football' R~vi~w's T earns for 1925 
All-American 
FIRST TEAM SECOND TEAM THIRD TEAM 
L. E ......... Tully, Dartmouth .: .................. Sloane, Drake ........................O'Rourke, St. Mary's 
L. T ......... Chase, Pittsburgh ....................Lindenmeycr, Missouri ........Parker, Dartmouth 
L. G ......... Mahan, \Vest Virginia ............ Diehl, Dartmouth ................Taylor,· So. California C ............... McMillan, Princeton ............. -.Lowry, Northwestern .......... Brown, Michigan 
R. G ......... Carey, California .................. Levy, Tulane ........................ Hess, Ohio State 
R. T ......... \Veir, Nebraska ...................... Joss, Yale ·········---------------------Davis, West Virginia 
R. E ......... Oosterbaan, Michigan ............Hanson, Syracuse ................ Shipkey,· Stanford 
Q. B ......... Grange, Illinois ......................Friedman, Michigan ............ Kelly, Montana 
L. H ......... ·wilson, \Vashington -·-·---------·Tyron, Colgate ---·------------------Slagle, Princeton 
R. H ....... :.Oberlander, Dartmouth ........Hubert, Alabama ..................Plansky, Georgetown 
F. B ......... Nevers, Stanford ....................Tesereau, ·washington ..........Strader, St. Mary's 
All-Western 
FIRST TEAM. SECOND TEAM THIRD.TEAM 
L. E ......... Sloane, Drake ........................ Bacchus, Missouri ................Lampe, Chicago 
L. T ......... Weir, Nebraska --~----------··,-···---Edwards, Michigan· .............. \Vilcox, Oklahoma 
L. G .... ~ .... Hess, Ohio State ..................... ·walsh, Minnesota ................J. Smith, Notre Dame C ............... Lowry, Northwestern ............ Brown, Michigan ..................Hutchinson, Nebraska 
R. G ......... McGee, Kansas ......................Hawkins, Michigan ..............Krasuski, Iowa 
R. T ......... Lindenmeyer, Missouri ..........Henderson, Chicago ............Hawkins, Michigan 
R. E ......... Oosterbaan, Michigan ............ Dilwig, Marquette ................ Kassel,· Illinois .. 
Q. B ......... FriE~dman, Michigan ...............J. Behm, Ames ....................Edwards, Notre Dame 
R. H ......... Rhodes, Nebraska ..................Spears, Drake ...................... \Vhiteman, Missouri 
L. H .... :····Gi·ange, Illinois ...................... Flanagan, Notre Dame ........ Kutsch, Iowa 
F. B ......... Enright, Notre Dam~ ............McCarty, Chicago ................ Toesting, Minnesota 
All-Rockne All-Opposition 
FIRST TEAM SECOND TEAM 
L. E ......... Kiley, 1921 ··········~·················--Kirk, 1920 ............................Born, Army 
L. T ......... Coughlin, 1920 ............... : ...... Garvey, 1921 ........................Weir, Nebr~ska 
L. G ......... H. Anderson, 1921 ........... , .... Brown, 1923 ........................Godwin, Georgia Tech C ............... \Valsh, 1924 ..........................Trafton, 1918 .........................Lowry, Northwestern 
R. G ... ~ ..... Rydzewsky, 1917 ....................Degree, 1922 ........................Hutchinson, Nebraska 
R. T ......... Shaw, 1921 ..............................Lieb, 1922 ............................McCann, Penn State 
R. E ......... Anderson, 1921 ......... : ............ Collins, 1924 ........................Wheeler, Minnesota 
Q. B ......... Stuhldreher, 1924 ..................Brandy, 1920 ---~-------·············Yeomans, Army 
L. H ......... Crowley, 1924 ........................Mohardt, .1921 ············---~------Rhodes, Nebraska 
R. H ......... Gipp, 1920 ............ : ............ ~ ....Castner, 1922 ......................\Vilson, Army 
F: B ......... Layden, 1924 ··········---~---·······\.\Vynne, 1921 ........................Joesting, Minnesota [57] 
. ;·.;,,·.. 



~,;~~L­
Football Review of 1925 
Lineup of All-Ame~ican T earns 
ROCKNE-JONES-VVARNER 
FIRST TEAM. SECOND TEAM THIRD TEAM
..' 
L. E ......... Oosterbaan, Michigan ............Shipkey, Stanford ................Kassel, Illinois 
L. T ......... Weir, .Nebraska ......................Lindenm~yer, Missouri ........Hawkins, Michi~al?-~ 
L. G ......... Sturhahn, Yale ........................Hess, OhiO State ..................Mahan, West V1~gm1~ C~ ..............McMillan, Princeton ..............Lowry, Northwestern ..........Cravath, So. Cahforma 
R. G ......... Diehl, Dartmouth ....................Carey, California ..................\Vissenger, Pittsburgh 
R. T ......... Chase, Pittsburgh ..................Sprague, Army ··················'···Parker, Dartmouth 
R. E ......... Born, Army ............................Sloan, Drake ........................\Vagner, Columbia 
Q. B ......... Friedman, (C.), Michigan ......Slagle, Princeton ··:·············-~Drury, So. California 
L. H ......... Oberlander, Dartmouth ..........Flournoy, Tulane ..................Tryon, Colgate 
R. H ......... Wilson, \Vashington ..............Grange, Illinois ....................Planksy, George_town 
F. B ......... Nevers; Stanford ....................Hubert, Alabama ..................Tesereau, \Vashmgton 
Rockne's All-Star Football Team of Middle West 
FIRST TEAM SECOND TEAM THIRD TEAM 
L. E ......... Oosterbaan, Michigan ............ Dilwig, Marquette ................Pulaski, \Visconsin 
L. T.~ ..-.....\Veir, Nebraska ......................Nelson, ·wisconsin ···:···········-Edwards, Michigan 
L. G ......... Hanson, Minnesota ................Hawkins, Michigan ..............Hanousek, Notre Dame C ............... Lowry, Northwestern ............Hutchinson, Nebra3ka ..........Brown, Michigan 
R. G ......... Hess, Ohio State .................... J. Smith, Notre Dame ........~.Fisher, Indiana 
R. T ......... Lindenmeyer, Missouri ..........Henderson, Chicago ..............Bolen, Purdue 
R. E ......... Sloan, Drake ..........................Kassel, Illinois ......................Baker, Kansas 
Q. B ......... Friedman, Michigan ..............Behm, Ames· ..........................Cochran, Kansas Aggies 
L. H ........ "Grange, Illinois ......................Almquist, Minnesota ............Rhodes, Nebraska 
R. H ......... McCarty, Chicago ..................Kutsch, Iowa ........................Harmon, \Visconsin . 
F. B. ........ Enright, Notre Dame ............ Lewis, Northwestern ............Frye, Iowa 
Oweri Merrick's All·American 
FIRST TEAM SECOND TEAM THIRD TEAM 
1: 
jl 
L. E ......... Stifler, Brown ........................Lampe, Chicago ....................Thayer, Pennsylvania;j L. T ......... Weir, Nebraska ......................Sieracki, Pennsylvania ........Henderson, Chicago 
L. G ... ~ .....Carey, California ....................Hess, Ohio ............................McGlone, Colorado C ............... Brown, Michigan ....................Hutchinson, Nebraska .......... McMillan, Princeton I[ R. G ......... Diehl, Dartmouth ..................Sturhahn, Yale ....................Britton, Illinois 
R. T ......... Joss, Yale ................................Lindenmeyer, Missouri ........Kearney, Cornell 11 R. E ......... Pulaski, Wisconsin ................Tully, Dartmouth ................Shipkey, Stanford 
)I 
Q. B. ........ Grange, Illinois· ......................Friedman, Michigan ............Drury, U. S. C.
f:
i! L. H ......... '\Vilson, '\Vashington ..............Tryon, Colgate ......................Hubert, Alabama 
R. H ......... Oberlander, Dartmouth ..........Kelly, Montana ....................Slagle, Princeton~ I F.. B. ........ Nevers, Stanford ....................Flournoy, Tulane .................. Strader, St. Mary's
!J 
.I 
~ i 
I 
I 
I I 
I David J. Walsh's All-American 
i 
FIRST TEAM SECOND TEAM THIRD TEAM 
L. E ......... Tully, Dartmouth ....................Born, Army ...~ ........~ .............Hanson, Syracuse 
L. T ......... Weir, Nebraska ......................Chase, Pittsburgh ................Henderson, Chicago 
L. G .. 
7••••••Taylor, So; California ............Ha,vkins, Michigan ..............Mahan, West Virginia C ............... Brown, Michigan ................. : .. Hutchinson, Nebraska .......... McMill;m, Princeton R. G ......... Diehl, Dartmouth ....................Hess, Ohio State ..................Mitterwalner, Illinois R. T ......... Lindenmeyer, Missouri .......7•• Sprague, Army ....................Thayer, Pennsylvania R. E ......... Oosterbaan, Michigan ............Sloan, Dartmouth ................Joss, Yale Q.. B ......... Grange, Illinois ......................Freidman, Michigan ............Kaer, California L. H ......... Wilson, '\Vashington ..............Hubert, Alabama ................Tyron, Colgate R. H ......... Oberlander; Dartmouth ..........Slagle, Princeton ..................McCarthy, Chicago F. B ......... Nevers, Standford ..................Flournoy, Tulane .....~ .......... :Wycoff, Georgia Tech 
[58] 
j .. 
l 
I 
\. 

Football Re·view of 1925 
The Boy. Wh_o Held the Reins 
Halfbacks sweep around ends to glory; full­backs crash through human walls to the same goal and student managers toil and rest not till the final curtain is rung down-and then these boys take the final curtain down and pack 

· it away in moth balls, with the other tons of equipment, for the next year. 
John J. Ryan, of Ro­chester, Ind., a Senior in the College of Commerce and Student manager of Football for the season of 
· 1925 has just wound up his end of Notre Dame's latest ten games. And that task was no small one. l)uring this last sea­son, John and his corps· of assistants have handled one of the most strenuous . campaigns that a Rockne squad ever went through. And he handled it well, due mainly to his fine sense of organization and an uncanny eye for de­tail. The comfort and safety of the thousands 
who saw the games played on Cartier Field can be traced back to John. He safely led the Gold and Blue's warriors over some eight thousands of miles, and into foreign territory, where they 
·enjoyed all of the comforts and cheerfulness of home. John is to blame for that too. 
Few people realize just what ·a lad has to show to become the "right-hand-man of Knute Rockne." And just as few are capable of real­izing how few lads have that necessary punch and initative in them to land the job in ques­tion. For the last few years Rockne has had much older men as· his Student. Manager of Football, and in all fairness it must be said that Ryan has come ·up to the standards set by such men as Eddie Lennon, Jim Swift, and Leo 
'-..._. Sutliffe. Ryan was assisted by "Chuck" Mooney, of Cleveland, "Bill" Reid of Brooklyn and "Andy'' Sleigh of Weston, West Va. Ticket sales at games, ushers, traffic, police, ticket-taking, su­pervision of daily practice, . and a hundred other duties were divided among these men; each being responsible for his own end of the job to Ryan. A student manager takes a lot of abuse from everybody in general but to those on the· inside he is as indispensible as the pigskin oval that bears the name of the game. Somebody has to take care of the little things. Doff your hats then to John Ryan, and pat him on the back the first time you see him and tell .him just as you would say to McManmon. as he runs from the field after one of his customary brilliant performances-say to Ryan: "Nice goin' Johnnie". 
The Cheer ·Leaders 
I: ! ~ 
One of the most notable. advances made 
during the past football season was the re­
markable improvement of the cheering section. 
Led by Cheer Leader Abrott, of Berkeley, 
California, and his assistants, Gilmore Salmon 
and Bob Manix, this year's rooting section 
proved a distinct·success. 
Notre Dame has long needed concentrated 
cheering and this year an excellent step was 
made in this direction. A few new cheers, in­
troduced at the beginning of .the year were 
executed so successfully that Abrott has prom­
ised that a few more will be tried during the 
basketball season. 
The fifty thousand spectators who witnessed 
the Notre Dame-Minnesota game were treated 
to a rare spectacle when five hundred .Notre 
Dame students silenced a much larger Minne­
mta rooting section, expounding their various 
cheers so snappily that they_ drew a great hand 
from the huge throng in the stadium. In the 
history of the .§chool there has probably never 
been a demonstration so successful as ·the re­
ception given to the Carnegie Tech team before 
our Homecoming game, and will not be readily 
forgotten by those who were present. The 
Scotchmen carried home with them the memory 
of a real Notre Dame welcome, made possible 
by the spirit for which our school is famou.s. 
The welcome accorded the returning· war­
riors from the Army game was probably proof 
of the way in which Notre Dame backs her 
teams-win or lose they are always behind them to a man, even tho' one has to rise at . 5:30 a. m. to prove it. In the darkest moments of the Northwestern game it was the fine spirit displayed by the· student body that aided, along with Rockne and "Cap" Edwards, to bolster up the com'age of the team. fighting against a ten point lead, and led to the greatest victory ever 
achieved on Cartier field. 
[59] 

Football Review of 1925 
·I lJIMMY POWERS 
~------------------·----------------------------------~ 
Jimmy Powers lived.· He died a death which was the first of its kind that ever occured at Notre Dame. His death came as a result of a broken neck which was suffered unto him when he tackled one of the varsity players during scrimmage. 
The fatal accident, itself, on Cartier Field, was a peculiar one in that it was the first of its nature to happen; but his death at the Saint Joseph Hospital was not peculiar. He died exemplifying the ties of homage and adoration that he bore towards this institution and Her, Our Lady.. Not once, during the time that he was there, did he un­loose that tie! · 
The affects of Jimmy. Power's ·struggling and the result of his passing will set an example for the years that will follow ..He made a sacrifice whence he strove to better himself, and did what he thought was his duty to the football squad. No one could ask or portray more; and there was no notoriety coming out of the splash of printers' ink attached to his deeds, for the latter were written in the Book of God, with a clear and true and simple hand as representing the most per­fect love of a student toward his Alma Mater. 
In words from his own h_eart, Jimmy Powers penned: "It is need­less to say that my college life will be still more difficult; and when my course at Notre Dame is completed, I expect to be a man more developed--mentally, morally, and physically". That was the trend of Jip1my Power's thoughts. He died after only a short time here; 
. but while here he interpreted the mental, moral and physical charac­teristics of a developed Notre Dame man. His deeds will always serve as an inspiration to these who remember his struggle. 
Jimmy Powers was the son of Mr. and Mrs. Frank Powers, of Chicago, Illinois. He. was educated in the parochial schools attached to the Saint Philip N~ri Church, at 72nd Street and Merrill Avenue. He first attended the Quigley Seminary, but later transferred and was graduated from the Mount Carmel High School, where he was; in­deed, popular with his classmates. He matriculated at Notre Dame, and made many friends here. Thence, he obeyed the beckoning hand of God. · 
IN MEMORIAM 

[60] 
Football Review of 19~5 
Spread of the Notre Dame System 
~ 
Perhaps nothing emphasizes more the greatness and sup~~iority of the Notre Dame sys­tem of football than the demand of schools and cqllege&> throughout the country for . -coaches who have had their training at ~ otre Dame. 
Nor has the success of tl{e Notre Dame method been confined to Notre Dame. Every 
team that has employed it has found it to work wonders. So much so tha~ the system 
lws been .adopted by many of the big elevens of the country. It is only natural, however, 
that such a successful method would win the respect of. other colleges. They realize,· 
too, that no better teachers of this particular system of football can be found than those 
·who have been taught by Rockne himself; hence the great demand from coast to coast for 
-coaches who. have played on Notre Dame elevens . 
. The Notre Dame system reached its highest point of perfection in the 1924· t~am when 
the National Championship title was annexed. A place on that varsity was a guarantee to· 
n coaching job. The team of 1924 made a Notre· Dame football monogram synonomous 
with a place on some coaching staff. The entire first team have joined the army of coaches 
produced at Notre Dame and gone forth to spread the systr:m that has wrought wonders 
·wherever it has been used. 
Here follows the personnel of that great army which, with perhaps a few exceptions, r.epresents the complete list of coaches Notre Dame has given to the football world: 
Knute Rockne ..............................Notre Dame Chas. Dorais ........................................Detroit Lee l\Iathews ..........................................Idaho 
E. Duggan ........................................Franklin Pete Dwier ........................................Niagara ..J. :Meagher .................... St. Edwards, Texas Harry Baujan .................................... Dayton ..Jim Phelan .......................................... Purdue 
J. Lee .....~ .................................. Cornell, Iowa Slip l\Iadigan .................~ ....St. l\Iary's, Calif. 
G. Fitzpatrick ....... : .......... Catholic Central, 
Grand Rapids, l\Iich. Cy Kasper ........................ Columbus, S. Dak. lYiorrie Smith ....................Gonzaga, Spokane Norm Barry ....................DeLaSalle, Chicago Eddie Anderson ................De Paul, Chicago Buck Shaw ................................ : ......... Nevada 
G. Carberry ............St. Bonaventure's, N. Y. Forrest Cotton ..............~ ..~ ....St. Ambrose, Ia. Hunk Anderson .......................... Notre Dame Barry Holton.......................... Trinity, Texas Charley Crowley ........................... Columbia Pete Vaughn ...................................... "\Vabash F~ Fletcher ........................ "\Vashington & I.ee 
F. Shaughnessy .................................. McGill R~ ~IcGuire ..................St. Ignatius, Chicago Stan Cofall _...................... Loyola, Baltimore Charley Bachman .................. Kansas Aggies 
J. ~!eyers ...... : ........... St. Xavier's, Cincinnati Tom King..................University of Louisville 
A. Bergman ..................Unh'ersity of Dayton Vince Harrington................ Columbia, Oregon 
D. Duffy ..................Cathedral Hi, Cleveland· Joe Brandy ................................St. Thomas Ha~ry l\Iehre .................................... Georgia Chet "\Vynne ....................... : ........ ....Creighton Harry Thomas .......................... Chattanooga· Rodge Kiley .......................~ .. Loyola, Chicago Tom Lieb ............. · ................. : ..: .. Notre Dame . Gene Oberst .......... Catholic Hi, Philadelphia Harvey Brown ................................ St. Louis· Frank Reese ...................................... "\Vabash · Harry Stuhldreher ........................Villa Nova Don l\Iiller ................................ Georgia Tech Chuck Collins .................... : ........ :Chattanooga· Johnny "\Veibel ..............................Vanderbilt Noble Kizer .~ ........................................Purdue· Ed. Huntsinger ..............................Villa Nova· "\V. Ea.ton ........ -............................ Notre Dame: Doc Connell .................................... \Visconsin Ed Garvey .._.................................... St. John's Clipp.er Smith ............................ _ .... Oregon U. Red l\Iaher ............................................Center Jim Burns ..............Holy Cross, New Orleans Jimmy Cro";ley .................................. Georgia. Elmer Layden ........................ Columbia, Iowa Joe Bach ......... -.......... , ....................... Syracuse. Adam "\Valsh .............................. Santa Clara Rip :Miller ............ : ............................. Indiana Ben Conner.................................. St. Ignatius Bob Regan ...................................... Creighton Ed Degree .......................................... Purdue l\Iax Houser ......."......~ ..~Iidland College, Neb. 
.Joe ~armon ..............." St. Xavier~s, Louis,'ille 
[61] 
..·•. I. 
Football Review of 1925 
Football. in the Various Sections of the Countty 
East 
In 1924 Dartmouth and Yale were the lead­ers in eastern football; 1925 finds Darmouth · still at the head of the list while Yale has fallen from her throne. Dartmouth, led by the fiery Oberlander, and ably seconded by Tully, .Lane, Parker and Diehl, swept to an undisputed east­ern championship. No team could stop the fa­mous passing attack of Oberlander and Tully; and Lane's running placed him as one of the outstanding half-backs of the season. 
Pittsburgh and '\Vest Virginia were except­ionally strong and Chase of Pitt and Mahari of West Virginia were two of the ranking linemen of the country. Princeton, Colgate, and Lafay­ette experienced successful seasons with one loss and one tie each. Princeton garnered the Big Three title, Lafayette defeated Lehigh and Pittsburgh, while Colgate forced Princeton and Syracuse to bite the dust, mainly through the · efforts of_the great Tryon. Fordham had one of her best teams, and Georgetown has but Buck­nell's victory over her to mar a good record. 
In. general,-the game continued at the high standard set by former years-guards, tackles, and halves .were plentiful, but good quarter­backs_ and .ends were lacking. · 
South Alabama · held undisputed championship glory in_1~24, but this season was forced to share the 'honors with Tulane. With a strong defensive. lfne, and Brown and Hubert in the back~eld,: Alabama survived the hectic season without a blemish; whereas Tulane was tied once with Missouri, the champs of the Missouri Valley. Tulane was a well balanced team and had a .greater backfield than any other in the south~ but defensively she was not as strong · as her rival, Alabama. ._ Georgia Tech, Georgia, Tennessee, and Vanderbilt were erratic performers-one week. they would flash ·great football, and the fol­lowing week would play like high school boys. Of the four Tennessee probably. had the strong­est team with Dodson, a half-back, and Lowe, an end, ranking with the best. Virginia, Washington and Lee, and North Carolina had powerful teams, and they show a better record than Vanderbilt or Georgia, but they did not play as high cali~red teams. 
West Michigan probably had the strongest team in the Mid-'\Vest, but don't tell it to a North­western student. The Michigan line was prob­ably the strongest in the country, and with an exceptional quarterback succeeded in trouncing every team except North\vestern. The forward passing combination of Oberlander to Tully of Dartmouth was duplicated on the Michigan squad with Friedman to Oosterbaan. Second in ranking must be accorded Missouri who were the Missouri Valley champions and were un­defeated until their last game when Kansas did the trick. Notre Dame's loss to Nebraska mars 
her otherwise spotless western record· ~and should be given third consideration, with Illi­nois, ·wisconsin, Northwestern, Nebraska, and Drake claiming attention because ..of· causing some startling upsets, as Michigan, Notre Dame, Chicago, and others can-testify. An1es, Kansas Aggies, and Minnesota turned in good accounts of their games this fall, and Minne­sota will be heard from in the next two years, as most of her men were Sophomores this year. 
Grange was, obviously the outstanding man _ of the west, but in Marek, Kutsch, Molenda, Flanagan, ·wilcox, Heardon and Joesting. all remaining for another season he will find a successor. 
Due to the muddy season and hard·. sche­dules not a single team in the .mid-west has a perfect record, but the standard was every bit as high as in former times, and the forward pass proved to be a factor in this· section as well as in the east. 
Far West 
After five years as leader of the Pacific Coast football, California finds itself supplant­ed, not by one team, but by two, and possibly three. Both '\Vashington, the undisputed cham­pions of the coast, and Stanford, ·with Glenn Warner as coach, rate ahead of California through victories over Andy Smith's men, and St. Mary's, although defeated by California has a better record and this is a team fast coming as one of the stronge-st of the coast. 
Washington had one .of the strongest teams in the country and with Wilson and E. Tesreau had the two best defensive backs in the game. Wilson was unstoppable with his running and passing, and rates with any halfback in the land. I 
Another All-American of the Pacific Coast is Ernie Nevers, captain and fullback of Stan­ford, whose plunging and playing stamps him as one of the greatest, as he alone is an out­standing player on the team that defeated California for the first time in 20 years, and is second only to Washington on the coast. 
St. Mary's had a powerful aggregation and lost only to California by a lone touchdown. In O'Rourke, an end~ and "Red" Strader the full­back, this team can look for positions on the All-American .teams. ·. 
California had no outstanding player~ who merit special consideration with the exception of Carey, the best guard in the country. 
Southern California~s poor showings . this 
year are unexplainable as they were conceded 
to be the stro'ngest team in pre-season dope. A 
new system instituted probably could not ac­
complish much in one year. 
Montana, 'vith one of the weakest .of.. coast 
teams; had the flashiest back in. Kelly_ their 
quarterback, who, according to Glenn' .warner, 
is one of the greatest quarters he has ever seen. 
Kelly did not fail to star in every game, and 
played against some of the best on the coast. 
[62] 
Football Review of 19925 

1924 Victories 
Notre Dame......................40 Lombard ........................ 0 Notre Dame......................3'1 'Vabash :......................... 0 Notre Damc......................l3 Army .............................. 7 Notre Dame......................l2 Princeton ····-·······-~---······· 0 Notre Damc......................3•1 Georgia Tech .. .............. 3 Notre Damc......................38 'Visconsin ...................... 3 Notre Dame......................3'1 Nebraska ·····----······-·······-· 6 Notre Dame....... : .............. l3 Northwestern ................ 6 Notre Dame.......~ ..............40 Carnegie Tech................I9 Notre Dame......................27 Stanford ··-·----···--··-·····-I 0 'Von .................................. 10 Loss ................................ 0 
Total Points 
Adam Walsh 
Notre Dame................~ ...285 Opponents ......................54 
Record 1928 
Notre Dame......................7'1 Kalamazoo ...................... 0 Notre Dame...................~ ..l•1 Lombard ........................ 0 Notre Dame......................l3 Army -------·-········-···---··-··· 0 N otrc Dame.............~ ........ 25 Princeton ···-----·······--·--··· 2 Notre Dame...................... 35 Georgia Tech ---------······· 7 Notre Dame......................3~1 Purdue -··········----~---·-···--·· 7 
· N otrc Dame...'.................~-7 Nebraska ........................14 N otrc Dame......................3'1 B~ttlcr ............................ 7 Notre Dame......................26 Car~egie Tech................ 0 Notrc Damc......................I3 St. Louis ·····-········--·--·-··· 0 
Total Points Notre Dame....................275 Opponents ......................37 


Record ·1922 
N otr~ Damc...................~ ..46 Kalamazoo ...................... 0 Notre Damc......................26 St. Loi.tis .... ·.................... 0 Notre Dame......................20 Purdue -----------·--·-········----0 Notre Dame......................3'1 DePauw ---·-···-··············· 7 Notre Dame.~------·-·-··········13 Georgia Tech ................ 3 N otrc Dame......................27 Indinna ···············-----······ 0 Notre Dame...................... 0 .Army ........................ : ..... 0 Notre Dame.................~--31 Butler ............................ 3 Notre Dmnc......................l9 Cnrncgic Tech................ 0 Notre Dame...................... 6 Nebraska ........................1•1 
Total Points 
·, . ; . 
· Glenn Carberry · , Notre Da'tne: ... ~---···-·····---222 Oppon.ents ~--·······-·······-···27 
[63] 
'(( -! 
VISIT THE INDI-ANA CAFE 


Enjoy One of Our 
Chicken or Steak Dinners, $1.25 
A la Carte-Served any time. Special attention to parties. Seating capacity for 140. 
S e r v i n g our own milk-fed chickens, each one young and tender. Steaks from our spe­cially selected a n d properly seasoned milk­and-grain-fed beef. 
Lunches, Short Or­ders, American a n d Hungarian Dishes. · 
YOU NEVER T AST­ED BETTER FOOD 
Phone Lin. 6791 
Auto Route: Michigan St., South 15 Blocks to Indiana Ave. Turn Right 7 Blocks west. A Delightful Bohemian Resort Mathew Kuzmich, Prop. 
745-747 WEST INDIANA AVENUE 
Phone Main 5090 
Drugs with a Reputation 
Compliments of 
Indiana Drug 
Store 
Stephen F. Nrjikos, Prop. 
804 West Indiana Avenue South Bend, Indiana 
Phone Main 4197 
TheModern 
Pharmacy·. 
V.BRZEZINSKI,Jr. '10 
Prescriptions Compoun-ded 
Tickets for all Games · 
~05 South ChapiJ:?. Street 
McCLAVE PRINTING CO.. SOUTH BENO. 









f~~~:zt~C,~i~f"'::;:"-'::.',7 ~--: T~;e~:~~~~~·----~ 
f '­
r 
;: '._. ~:. ·, 

\ 
,q>:·) :·.~ 


" /;i:......  
1.  
., .I ,i  


.. r 

\ 
.\. ..
~ 
\. 
~l 
I 


' ;
\ 
.··f 
\ .·
l 
\ 
. ; ( I
., ­
,• 

.·' 

.. 
\· 

.. 
: 
1 
.. 
·' .. 
~ ---:-/
! 
'~ 
'\ 

,. 
·, ..; 
< ; 
...... 

,;. .r /
f. 
/

, 
-.. -·· . 
.\_ 


\"~· t • 
. . ~ '. .... 
·:.~:>:.\~· ~i:.:, ~~~~· .. #1·:~ 
~~~~ ··:\ i. 

.~.._ 
'.. \ .' 
·: .··


~~::::~2~:~3:J•-_.Lc"~-~~,~-~-· 
{ 


~  ..  '\.  
. i  ,:,. .\\'  
.::._  .~: "\.  


. i.
OFFICIAL 
i:

FOOTBALL REVIEW 
i 
OF 1926 
·_/ 
University of Notre Dame 
i. -·\" I.-' 
~ 
-.
J 
I 
I
1r Edited by
f.. I I 
I JOSEPH P. l\1cNAMARA
I
i I
h I 
I 
r~-·I 
l'' I 
i FRANKLYN E. DOAN
I 
}. I I Associate Editor .:~­
I 
lf 
' 
I. ­
t~ 
·~ 
~ 
CONTRIBUTORS 
K. /(, Roclme Fmnl~ ·wallace H': F. Fox, ]r. HZ TV. Brown Gene Edwm·ds Tom Hearden · lValter H. Layne William Craig Dicll Novall L. H'illiams Frmzl~ O'Toole Les Grady 
,.-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-u--•-••-•-••-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-••-•-•-•-•-•..! 


. ; 


f 
!. 
~-.i 

-r -:~ ---~__~I~ -~;J 
' 
Page 2 1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

'tO EVERY NOTRE DAME MAN EVERYWHERE 
.who cheri~h~3 th~ Notre Dame tradition for clean sport, the tradition which fosters rivalry without bitterness, which does not lose the head in victory nor the heart in defeat, which does not belittle a loser nor berate a winner, which is tempered by forebearance, fairplay, courtesy and tol~ranct in evuy mo~t trying circumstance,, 
THIS BOOK IS DEDICATED. 


·.· 
L·.·. 
! 
r ~­
I 
I r r 
i 
l 
I 
I 
I 
I
: 
By FRANK O'ToOLE '28.
l 
l 
! What is that echo so poised in its flight? 
\Vkat is the story they whisper tonight? It is a name that ,goes searching the skies Parade of swift victories-glory the prize. 
They drove through the east in their fierce vaunting fame They rode through tlte south and with victory came The west met their power and fa'iled in their pride When courage and faith in their ultimate ride. Swift is their victory sure i:; their gain · Strength fails before them and courage is vain · .1\s year follows year they drive ruthlessly on .1\nd those we have now go wli{!re others have gone. ··But even they come and as surely .they go 
.1\s swift as the wind and as sure as the snow. They come for their moment; they pass to .their fate. But stop-there are others that enter the gate. 
So sing to the courage that rides down the years Such courage and fighting that 'only endears. Not for vain glory or swift fleeting fame But riding to vi~tory with "Cheer, Notre Damt.'' 

f • 1
I •
e__ __}_ _____{_~_·­
·,.,., 

Page 4 1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

I 
I 
1­
r_ 
I 
I 
I I 
I 

; 
~J" 
I 
I 
·-~ 
r 
/j-. 
l 
i 
I 
! 
i I! 
j 
I 
.) 
. ·~ 
i 

/ 

1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 5 
~---·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·, 
That athletics and studies do not mix well and that athletics of themselves are of no particular value to the. student body, seems to be .the idea that is fou'!d in tha? minds of many who are unacquainted with the facts. Having been connected in athletic work which has f:!...ought me into close contact not only with conditions at Notre Dame but also with those existing at many other large schools throughout the United States for the past . thirteen years I am absolutely convinced that anyone· hold­ing to such an idea is either ignoranrol facts or narrowly prejudiced. 
The pages that follow chronicle the activities of a season that has been one of the hardest that any of our teams has had to face. The men came through splen­didly. Their ·spirit all through that hard campaign deserves commendation. Their unselfish spirit that' in­sured the harmony and cooperation that stamped the team of 1926 is a lesson that will stand us in good stead. 
To each man on the squad, to those who labored in the practices as well as those who fough.t the games, and to everqone helping in any way, I extend my.'. sincere 
appreciation. 
K. K. ROCKNE. 
•-•-o-•-•-•-•-•-~-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•~ 
-.... _·:.. 
"--,.; 
:~'"(-·:._,, 
.... "',l ' 
•, 
\ 
~ 
' ... 
t r 
I 
i 
f. I 
l· 
I 
I 
J· 
I 
.,_I 
:' 

'• 
' \ -' 
\ ..
'-· .
._,_~­
. ·~ ... ~ 


il3i } 
t~i~~~~~t""¥f:;:~~:~~al(''.c·J.. 


'.". '• .­
Page 6 1926 FOOTBALL· REVIEW 
... ·--· 
r-~~;7:'\.~~:·~~,~~T~-~~".~:71~':~\~~~::;·'::'; :·~~:·:··,,,··~~:·~-?~~h~?P';r:::~}f':c?~?~:·:y:~?'/1 
·; .. .• -: ~ 

·.·: 

It is said that college life brings knowledge to the learned, power to the able, and responsibility to the sincere, but life at Notre Dame brinqs more than these-it brinqs re.~pect and appreciation and love to him who comes in contact with it. 

For three years I lwve had. opportunit!l to watch the whole·h'rarted· manner in which Notre Dame men attach their problems and always a
'i 
• 
I 
buoyan-t spirit has marked their efforts Whether it be in support of athletics or other student functions, they have done their work with a / 


I· 1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW
I 
f",1 ":·:·,,.·~~"f"':'T'';•~·-t:::•~.,. ..,,-.,.,.,.--..-._, ...,.... ~ ... ........_,-~..,,.-f,. .. '~'"'ft'·~""f•"'~·~;.~' ,,..~~~j., 
i:--­
~ . . 

_:~~:, 
·,.__. 
[· ~ :__ ·. 
t 
_.:'/ 
... 
~ ~­
1. 
I 
} 
I 
I Discouraginly defeated whm the highe1t prize of the gridiron. a national championship, loomed only a Few strides away, char :single loll&I did more to make the 1926 football season a cherished memorv than tsnr;! other single factor. 
When the entire school and its alumni had looked up to another title 
l t 
and had exulted because the team won from Army, Northwe1tem «nd Minnesota, three great elevens, Notre Dame's spirit was thought to be 'some intangible thing. 
l But the sudden reverse at the hands. of Carnegie Tech plunged Notre Dame against a new problem-that of bearing a loser. And how noblyl she responded -to the task! Without a whimper or a sob, Notre Dame, 
I 
to the last man, arose to show a genuine spirit. The good will and team spirit, which members of the squad have shown, deserve commendation.
I 
i 
It has been an honor to fight for Notre Dame, to play for the men h~re, but above all to realize that deep-grained spirit which i:s :so appreciable. 
THOMAS HEARDEN_. 

·. 
. ...... ~ :.-:~~·:.__":;:,_-::::.:..;, 
\'. 
\, '...
' 
\<\:_ 
-·>~-~:. 
. ·......~-1 

··~·~!< 
~ 'i -: 
-~': 
.·. _)·_:·:; 
==-=~!!~!!~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:;!!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~-~~~~~~~ 
-----"'~ ... 

.· 
1926 F001'BALL REVIEW Page 9 

1926 RECORD 
I 
Notre Dame _____ 77, Beloit _______ 0 Notre Dame ____ 26, Indiana _____ 0 Notre Dame ____ 20, Minnesota ___ 7 Notre Dame ____ 6, Army _______ 0 Notre Dame ____ 28, Penn State __ 0 
Notre Dame --·--21, Drake -------0 Notre Dame 6, Northwestern 0 Notre Dame ____ 0, Carnegie Tech 19 Notre Dame ____ 12, Georgia Tech 0 Notre Dame ____ 13, U. of So. Calif 12 
Edwards 
Rearden 
Boeringer 
Boland .T. Smith Mayer 
l\Icl\lanmon 
Wallace 
Polis~y 
O'Boylc 
1926 SQUAD OFFICERS 
KNUTE K. ROCKNE, Coach HARTLEY ANDERSON, Assistant Coach TOM_ MILLS, Assistant Coach BASIL STANLEY, Freshman Coach 
J. VIGNOS, Assistant F1·cslzman Coach 
THOMAS REARDON and GENE EDWARDS Cap·tains · 
PERSONNBL  
Flanagan  Maxwell  Leppig  
l\Iiller  Riley  Chevigney  
Collins  l\lcNally  l\IcGrath  
Shields  Dahman  Voedisch  
Parisien  Niemic  "Roach  
R. Smith  Wynne  Murrin  
l\Iarelli  C. Walsh  l\IcCabe  
McCarthy  Hogim  Byrne  
Law  Noone  McAdams  
l\lonynihan  Benda  Plummer  
E. Collins  Duperior  Dom·n  

FNd€ricks Whaelan Keofe Moore Collins 
Hurley Byrne, T. Hurlbert Veezie 
F. Collins 
·... 

f~~~~~~~~"I;,~~:r=·~==-\~Jrr.c;.·-·;. 

. :.... ' l 


Page 10 1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

\ 
\ 
', ~ 
' \ 
... 
": ~ 
.-.{. 
Knute K. Rockne 
Head Coach and Director of Athletics 
Knute K. Rockne.-What doesn't that name mean to the several million football fans throughout the length and breath of this tax-ridden universe of ours? 
"Rock"-what doesn't that mean to all Notre Dame men, wheather they dodge prefects now or. talk about all the old gang at the homcomings? In answering the above we might remark that there are several things that those words do mean and the replies are good no matter whether you fan into the first or second group. 
First, mean~ to either group, the greatest coach in the world. Look back if you will and be startled perhaps (or maybe you've always known it) that the recapitulation bears out just the thing that you have always believed. Since the captain of the '13 varsity took over the grooming of the grid knights of Our Lady the 
·teams· have· been. favored by succes.s known to no other university. Only eight times have his teams taken the windward side of the count, and each time they have risen to greater heighths when Rockne ·got in his good work. 
Perhaps the greatest exibition of his ability as a coach and 
leader was exemplified in the Army gam.e of this year. Last season the team that rode back in silence from New York did so after one of the defeats m which their opponents scored the greatest number of points in Notre Dame annals. ThP same tearh that this year proved to be a g1 oup of mule-skinners de luxe and .battle~ away at even odds (when not actually outplaying) the team of ex-All-Americans re­presenting the military academy. . 
Metamorphosing that team from 'a greaten sophomore eleven which was the weakest that the East had ever seen a Blue and Gold squad into a pack of world-beaters inside a period of hvelve months (only a small portion of which) could be· spent in drilling the charges marks a mile-stone in the annals of great coaches . 
He has been dubbed "the 'Vizard" ''the \Vonder Man" "football's greatest tactician'' and other titles that would take pages to recount but after all the word that describes him best is "greatest." 
That's what "Rock" means to Notre Dame men! 
Hartley Anderson 
Assistant Coach 
If you dig deep in musty records you'll find that Hartley Anderson is his formal sobriquet but around Notre Dame he's known as "Hunk" and ·the word connotes much in the way ·of determined football skill. 
Some four or five yea1~s ago .Anderson was a guard on ·the Rockne team (he must have been plenty hot because the only critic who didn't piek him on his All-American was an Idaho schoolboy.) It was that year that Anderson tore voluminous holes in the Army line and helped the Irish to a great victory over the Cadets, proving that the Notre Dame boys could play as vigorously as the next ones. 
After serving on the varsity for two or three years, "Hunk" adven­tured a bit and when Notre Dame called him to help in the formation of great elevens like those upon whi.ch he had played, he· responded 
For two years "Hunk" has been one of Rock's right hand. men and his unusual ability as a linemen has been reflected in 'the efficient work of Irish guards and tackles. The adamant defense and brilliant offense of the bulwarks of the Irish line should be a matter of great pride to 
the old head, Anderson. . 
Anderson was especially commended for his handling of the· team the . Indiana game. · While Rockne looked over the Cadet array, Anderson managed the Irish attack against the Crimson. 
J •• 
' 



1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 11 
Thomas Mills 
Assistant Coach 
Time was when the Beloit Vikings rushed out of the north once a year to do bitter battle with the clan of Rockne. Never did they invade Cartier Field for an early season game without putting up a game and heady fight. 
I. But· the fall of 1926 saw Tommy behind a diffe.rent gun, a piercing,. screaming cannon that hurled Irish shrapnel. When Tom Lieb resigned his assistant coach post, Mills was picked ·to assist Rockne in whipping the Thunderiug Herd into shape for a hard season. 
· The plump, matter-of-fact .Mills has been a potent factor in the 
I success of this year's team. In his direct, forcible way he has helped to bring the Irish from the bottom up. The fierce charging and deadly tackling of the Notre Dame frontal wall can be largely· attribute to Mills' 'york. He has
I helped considerably in the development of the backfield and his scouting duties have 


I been invaluable to the Fightin' Irish.
I 
Versatility is Mills' middle name. Not only does he teach
\ 
football but he specializes as a physical educational pedagogue
i' 
I director of parts. I J l Basil Stanley 
I Fresh1nan Coach 
I 
the gentle game of and is a dramatie 

r Napoleon had a huge task, so did Attila. Even .Tengis Khan, the mongol, had
I· 
noneasy task of it. But Basil Stanley has a problem to equal any of theirs, for while
I 
they had big armies to control, Stanley has about 80 aspiring Freshman to mould intoI varsity prospects every year. 
Stanley, serving his first year as a Notre Dame mentor, ·was ·assigned to whip the greenies into shape and although the task is generally conside1:ed a thankless one in a big university, Stanley came through in fine fashion. 
Like Anderson, Base served on the Notre Dame varsity but was cut short in his 
\~f.
I ~ 
I 
• --· -~~..!>-­{'~~ 
l 

athletic career by the impending ':Vorld 'Var. He joined the ranks, emerged successfully, went to California and entered business. One fine day last spring he was nominated to the Irish coaching staff and accepted graciously. 
And then the fun began last September! 
They came from north and south and east and west, these husky 1930 gridders, each with a brilliant "rep" and sparkling theories about football in general and Notre Dame football in particular. After culling,. weeding and selecting, the lot, Stanley set down to the big task of whipping "cannon fodder" into shape foi· the varsity. 
Stanley's proteges were not ordinary "cannon fodder" however. They played heads up football against the varsity and their dogged opposition in scrimmage helped materially in the big team's work Stanley's patient work with the new men and his excellent develop­ment of them spea!<:s well 'for his ability; 


t ..•.
-
Page 12 1926 F001'BALL REVIEW 
Thomas (Red) Rearden 
CAPTAIN Green E ay, \¥isconsin 
"The greatest interferer in college football today" is the no doubtful praise that has been given Red. Teamwork -is the most characteristic feature of the Notre Dame style of play and it was in this that Tom was most scintillating He was, never­theless, a ball toter of accom­plishments. During the 1925 season he -did not loose ·a yard of g-round in his carrying pro­clivities arid the same enviable 

record went for most _of the past season. ·when Edwards gave his 
Arthur (Bu-d) Boeringer 
St. Paul, Minnesota 

Having the honor of being given . firsL choice on almost ev­ery A~l-American se­lection made thh; year is the great re­cord that Bud Boe­ringer a truly great center leaves behind him to remind us of his last year on the teams of Our Lady. 
The Notre Dam.e center, because of -the style of. play used, must be an accurate passer at all times. Boeringer was a wond­er at snapping the ball back and in addi­tion his experience and his keen anylitical mind told him just when to play back to break up end-runs and forward passes and when to play his position. His work was almost flawless. Hardly a game can be named in which he was not commended for his wonderful playing by the scribes. 
:.;.--~lL. 
record, Red old man; a record we can all learn a valuable lesson. 
Harry· O'Boyle 
Des Moines, Iowa 
In 1924 they called Harry O'Boyle the fifth of the "Four 
~ Horsemen" in 1925 he I was not in the lineup .j so much;· in 1926 they '\. ~~.) 1 rated him as one of \· ~~· l football's most ter-i\\ ~.f{ I rific line-sm.ashers. ~/ · · _:;.(,,!if} 
~hat's a pithy story.f;::~;j:;:m:B~f:!·:~;~f~f:~,,. ... of O'Boyle's colorful ..,_:· · :;_~;::::;.;;ct~t:'':~~ football history. AI-"···' ·.;• 
'vays a halfback, he was switched to the pummelling position this year and thrilled to his ne'v work. Harry runs close to the ground and pounce,g at the line furiously; hence his gridir011 fame. 
In the Army game · CJ'Boyle bore the brunt of the running attack and almost buffled the Cadet defense single-handed. Against Drake, his home-town school, he ran wild again. 
co-captain the ball he was sure that it was in the hands of a man who knew. where he was going-and usually got there. 
Tom is a quiet, determined likable fellow and proved to be a leader of men in the hard days of the 1926 campaign. He has always given everything that he had to the team and his school and his leaving us occassions some deeper regret than we can express here. You leave a great 
Frank 
Usual as it may ,seem, Frank Army game and viewing some Mayer became a candidate for of the All-America Selections, the frE:shman varsity some three we'll wager that the yearling years ago. Strange. as it may coaches had fallen arches of the 
seem. Frank was not a glowing cranium. prospect and the yearling coach­
Handicapped by injuries ines did not sing any peppery 
1925, Mayer came back this fall
songs because Frank's 210 to play a brilliant and powerful
pounds protruded from a football suit every night of practice. game at guard. They grow 'em After reading reports of thl~ right up in Minnesota. 
1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 13 
Eugene (Red) .Edwards CAPTAIN Weston, _Yvest Virginia 

Probably one of the coolest quarter backs ~hat it has been our privilege to watch is this sorrell-top who was famous as one of the two red-headed cap­tains. Many times Edwards was robbed of the praise that he so well deserved because he made his task look too easy. Brainy? That was Gene.. He know just what play to use and used it; which after all is the sum and total of wh~t. a good quarterback 
John Wallace ·Gary, Indiana 

It's claimed that your own backyard is a diamond mine· and has found reason for this assertion. One of his ends, Ike Voe­disch, lives in South Bend and the other, Johnny Wallace, tra­ces his footsteps to 
Gary. When Johnny . gets his ire aroused he's about .the meanest end that ever graced Cartier Field. Outside of .getting down under punts, turning tackles in, or break­ing up interference, John can't play the wing position. If the experts had wandered a little more, Johnny would have made a majority of the All-Americans. 
John 

Someone said that the maxim "a thing of beauty is a joy for­ever" was said of John McMan­mon's playing. Often a play­by-play reporter would slip on a play b~cause he took time out to watch "Big John" perform. 
can reasonably be expected to do. Gene proved to be a fine captain-as was his running mate, and in his own quiet way was a good _influenc.e among those on the reserve elevens as well as the teams that saw serv­
-ice. \Ve're sorry that "Red" leaves us this year. The 1927 eleven is going to miss him a lot. A good field ge;neral a fine 
leader, that was Gene Edwards. 
Christopher J. (Christy)Flanagan; Porth .Arthur, Texas 
Get out your six­shooters, sheriff, and buckle on your spurs, because you'll have to 
. ride some if you want. to outdo this Christy Flanagan. · Minnesota and North­western tried but they couldn't make it; Army flew at him but didn't 

even come in contact. 
Christy's a wicked boy when it comes to dodging, pivoting, or twisting around an aspiring tackler and continuing on his way. Speed, change of pace, arid fight,-he has combined so hap­pily. They are hard football qualities to beat. 
Christy broke into seven-eights of th~ All-Americans -selections and was easily one o~ the country's g1~eat backs. 
three years of stellar Max has been selected a few _All~_Western teams-and so it shoulrl was smart, fast, and usually outplayed his opponent in true "Fighting Irish" fashi9n. 

Page 14 1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

Richard (Red) Smith 
Combined Locks, \Visconsin 
Joseph (Joe) Boland 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
'l'he most ambipositionous man among Rock's assortment of pigskin Rebi Beta Kappa, '"Red" spent the season commutting between his first love, the line, and the fullback job. He startl­ing thing to most people who didn't know of him was that he felt at home in either depart-
Elmer ("E") Wynne 
Oronoque, Kansas. They say that El­

mer \Vynne ought to be a fullback becaUSl~ he's broad-shouldered and square-jawed and they· say a mouthfu1, because Elmer is a fullback and one of the first magnitude. 
Desiring to emulate the girdiron feats of 
his famous brother, Shet, Elmer came to Notre Dame three · years ago but didn't see actual service 'till 
he was a junior \Vynrie has been alternat­ing with O'Boyle this fall and his terrific t~rusts at the line have been instrumental in making Notre Dame's attack as peppery as it is. 
ment and tore 'em up in wild 
man fashion no matter where h~ 
·I 
• happened to be. His game as a guard, however, was by fqr the most scintillating; net becaus!! 
of the fact ·that he· didn't shine 
in the backfield as that he was a lineman of the first water. 
Smith 
\Vith the possible exception of A I I ­American Bud B'oe­ringer we doubt-if any other lineman on the Irish squad this ~rear handled his posi­tion more skillfully than John ·Smith. "Clipper" is on. the type of Captain Har­vey Brown of the· '23 eleven and truly a great guard, as anyone who opposed him this fall will readily testify. Johnnie is one of those fellows who proves the saying that "great things often come in small packages" arid personally we think him a. notential All-American for the season of 1927. Against the crafty Army and South­ern California forwards, Johnny forced his sterling ability. 
When Joe Boland was taken out of the game up at Minnea­polis it was a hard blow for every Notre Dame fan. Had it not been for this injury that came right at the start of his senior year, the year which gave every promise of being his great­est' it meant the passing of 
All-American honors for the big
tackle who had performed so admirably for Rockne in the previous seasons. Joe passed from the stage of the gridiron at just the time when his sun wa~ ab<:mt ~·e~dy to burst intq 
the splendor of a final year of corag-eous work, but ·with true fortitude, Boland came back from that Milwaukee hospital with a smile. a bir~ sunshiny smile, on his face and took up life on the campus and the high place in the hearts of. Notre Dame men just where he had left off.. Joe 
Boland was great this season and the thought of their com­rade in the hospital up in Min­nesota spurred the team on to some of the great things that it 
~ccomplished. 

1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 15 
John ("Ike") V oedisch 
South Bend, Indiana 
This tow-headed lad cam(~ 
It was Voedesch who stepped up out from the neighboring metro­in the neck of time to take out 
polis a few years ago and has 
Cadet Harding on the ten-yardbeen tearing up bets of glory fol' line that made Christy Flana:..
South ·Bend ever since. 
gan's efforts worth the seven
Notre Dame has always been whole points that won the Armynoted as a hot-house for ends, game. Ike has one more year at
the prize blooms being Roc;kne, Anderson, Kelley and Company, Notre Dame and take it from us and Ike Voedisch is a true you can get ready to hear a lot successor to all of these. of this man in that time! 
Ray (Bucky) Dahman 
Youngstown, Ohio. 
~~~~j
' .~~!;\ 
Many· athletes would be content with a rat­ing as All-vVestern basketball guard bu! this Bucky Dahman is an ambitious lad and after rolling up an enviable basketball re­cord he went in quest of football fame-nor did he fall short of his goal. 
Damhan's work at 
halfback this year has been nothing short of sensational. He has filied in success­fully for Captain Hearden; his end run­ning has been a brilliant ·feature of the season and his ability in knocking down 
passes is unquestioned. Dahman's most scintillating performance was a 70 yard · run in the Minnesota game. 
Charles Riley 
Indianapolis, Indiana 
Charlie Riley was one of the mainstays of the twenty six team. Thoroughly ex­perienced in every de­partment of play he was able to test the strength of the three men behind him and the f o r w a r d wall ahead of him and send his ball c a r r i e r s 

through for many long gains. Charlie in addition to being a first class field general showed his sprinting form every time he tucked the ball under his arm. One of his peculiar characteris­tics was that of evading tacklers by his peculiar style of leaping when he was about to be stopped. This season Charlie has piloted the second team backfield to success equal to that of the first team me:n. 
Joseph (Joe) 
\Vhen a center changes to end within a year and does neat job of it you can bet yom· last nickel that plenty of native fqotball skill had to be included in the bargain. 
That's the transition that Joe Maxwell made and their singing his_ praise far and wide. 
A dearth of good ends being 

Maxwell 
evidence at the start of the 1926 season, Coach Rockne cal­
Maxwell to flank duty and the big pennsilvanian responded nobly. vVith "Muleskinner" vVal­lace, he has been keeping opposi­
backs well flattened when they essayed runs around their own left wing. 

Page 16 1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

Fred Miller 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
They tell a story about the . the quaterback ran around the days. immediately following Joe 
opposite end for the touchdown. Boland's injury in·. the Minesota That's typical of Fred. when he 
game when "Rock" was looking stepped into the game. at Minn­f.or a tackle. Miller was sent in eapolis to relieve Boland and and the freshman quarterback starred few realized that a new whose team· was opposing the star had swing into view-and varsity was told to direct his one that you don't heed a tele­attentions toward Miller. The scope to see either. Miller has frosh scared after using nine­two more years. This year he teen· plays. Eighteen were sent was named on many All-West­at the ·new soph tackle for the ern teams. He'll be an All­net loss of five yards and then American before the show's over. 

William· (Dinger) McCabe ·Tim Moynihan 
Chicag:o, Illinois One of the backfield Tim succeeded in athletes who was unfor-. making the difficult 
tunate enough to be play­position of center· on ing his last year under the varsity s q u a d. the ill star which brought 'Vith such men as 
Boeringer and Frede­heaps of bad luck to full­ricks with senoritybacks was Bill McCabe. 
before him he pivoted 
-tAt least one, sometimes 
the second and third 
two or three, of Rockne's string men in an ag­plu_ngeres was always on gressives manner that I the injured shelf and promises to terminate r Dinger held out in the in the perfection. of 
I
another great center. Tfm played a roving
unloved balcony of cripp­center in a way that reminded those in the stands of the days when Adam WalshIn the Georgie Tech game the Sorin flyer 
thrilled the spectators by his phenominal came into his own, showing special pro­tackles. He opened up holes in the oppos· ficiency in the pass-catching angle of the ing line that allowed the backfield men to 
I
dash through -for gain after gain. Whenti_lt. He was injured in practice the follow­Tim was at center it was one pleasant
ing 'veek and had littl.e chance to play dur­
thought in the mind of the quarter be­
I
ing the remainder of the season. 
hind him. 
John Hogan \ Fairbault, Minnesota 
\ 
-~ 
If you'd depend on J ohl! Ho­
Minnesota must use their weath­t: gan for the dope on his f dotball er intelligently, for Hogan i'5 
I 
activity you wouldn't learn much one of the hardiest linemen of· .I because he's too inclined toward the lot. His ruggedness has modesty. But we invaded Cartier served him in good stead and he Field· for practice sessions as has been a powerful factor in well as· actual conflicts an~l defensive play. Unfortunately, 
· learned things. 
~John has served his la,c;:.t ·year of '.l:'hese boys fro~ th~ ·wilds of varsity competition. 
-~ 
i926 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 17 
John "Jack'?. Chevigney 
Hammo~d, Indiana 
Playing third string half back position would n o't be a great honor at some schools, but here at Notre Dame where Capt. Reardon and "Bucky" Dahman recklessly ride the gridiron even a man of "Chev's" ability is forced to consider third choice charm. "Chev;' displayed his ability in the Penn State game better than any ·o~her time this season. He was an ace in the hole whom Rockne felt safe to 
Charles · (Chilly) Walsh 
Hollywood, California 
If some literary con­


nossieur ever made the assertion that gen­ius crops out on more that one branch·of the family tree, he must have been speaking of the vValsh family of girdders. 
You can't forget Adam Walsh, skipper of the Four Horsemen 
and Seven Mules, and if his younger brother continues to play the left .wing in such admirable fashion he'll live long in Notre Dame grid annals. 
A Saturday figure on the defense, an adept at the blocking and passcatching angles of offense, Chilly has proved his grid worth for two years. 
call on at any time. His end runs brought the stands to its feet in every game he partici­pated in and finding a hole in the line of opposition was con:-. · elusively .proven with every turn of his cleated feet. Jack has· tw'o more years on the varsit:;r · squad and with thE! natural speed and ability which he has shown thi~ season we look for­ward to great things from 
another fighting Frenchman. 
George Leppig 
Cleveland, Ohio 
Proud natives of the 
Buckeye state often swell up because the old sod has produc~d more than its share of presidents but Notre Dame can give Ohio credit for at least one good guard and he's none other than Geo. Leppig. 
Leppig's destiny has 

alway~ led to football for he's big strong and powerful with a passion for the thud of runner and tackler. His ability to a~alyse and smother line 
thrusts has made him one of the most valu­able guards of recent years. 
Ray Marrelli 
Rockford, Illinois 
Oftentimes the second line trenches contribute as much tu victory as do those up in the thick of the firing. That's the case with Ray Mar~·elli, a second string guard, whose play this year has been of the sensational variety. 

.Marrelli played a consistent 
game every time that he was 
injected into a contest. 
Marrelli has see·n hH> years 
of varsity service and will take 
his degree in June. His loss . will he ·a decided disadvantage 
to the center of the line. 



\', 
.\ 
\ .... 

'{ \· "-< 
\; ~·{ '"'\ \. -\ 
·l· ' 
~ 
l 
\ 
--I ~ ' 
. ~-~ 
~ \ 
;,: 
-~ 
\ 
' 
.. 
-, 
i 
. i I l II
. 
!:1 
IfI 
1,,
!<i·l 
I:!J 
i::t 
1;1 
!IIil 
::1 1:1 
'I!
It! It!: 
1::l 
~r 
:i I I 
i : 
colorful page from a story book. team next fall. 

John (Butch) Niemic 
Bellaire, Ohio. 
Those who look to· Notre Dame's gridiron future smiled happily one September after­noon when they saw Johnny Niemic make his initial. He ran, passed and k i c k e d with equal ability and promised to be one of the greatest triple­
_ threat backs that has ever domied the blue and gold. 
Niemic is just finishing his first year of competition. Niemic and with Flanagan has been the stellar ground gainer ap­pearance. Niemic's effiCient kicking was the feature of more than one game. 
In the Northwestern game Niemic dis­played the best form of the year. Through­out the game he played consistently and in the last quarter grabbed a pass that was turned into the winning touchdown. 

John (Johnny} Fredericks 
Saginaw, Michigan The I e g e· n d s of 
Notre Dame football center much around great stars who haYc come out of Michigan to twinkle on Cartier Field. 'Vitness George Gipp and Barnie Kirk. But modern Notr~ Dame ·_football boasts of another Michigan star and he's Johnny Frederick's, a husky 

center. 
-When only a sophomore Fredericks be­came the under~tudy of Bud Boeringer at center and ever since h·as been one of the real aces-in-the-hole oil defense. Much of the brilliance which has radiated from the second stringers' work has been due to Fredericks' work. 
John (Bull) Poliskey 
Bellaire; Ohio 
The gentleman who racked his Poiiskey got has initiation col­mind for a day and then decided legiate football when only a to call John Poliskey, "Bull", sophomore and has main-tained clever at -fitting a steady clip throughout his­facts. This Poliskey­carrer. With two years of good the word connotes, experience to his credit his play and charges w'ith next year should be of eye­
opening effect. 




1926 F001'BALL REVIEW Page 19 
'lincent McNally 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
Not satisfied with captaining 
pleasant to. watch Vince carry the vVestern championship bas­the ball. He had th~ _stop and ketball team of last winter, start style perfected and evaded Vinc1~nt turned his h:mdR to more tacklers than Rockne does football this Fall with pheno­reporters. One feature of Vince's minal success. He clearly dis­style of running was his ability played the coolness of a veteran to run with equal speed in a in the Army game and intercept-( crouched or a straight position ed one of the last cadet threats thus giving him a fine change in the Yankee Stadium. The of pace and his would be tacklers spectators found it extreemly no end of trouble. 
John Law John Roach 
New York City. Chicago, Illinois· 
·with a style of play F'or a place among similar to that of the consistantly pro­

--.:::.. -:·_._·_ ....
Johnnie Smith, John gressive halfbacks of Law in his sophomore the last three years
I 
.year has proven his we nominate RoachI worth ·to the Irish for captain. John has
i 
'squad in a most com­succeeded in holding
I 
1 
mendable fa s hi on. his place with the Measuring up to the best of the· backs of type of guard employ­the country. It is far ed under the Rockne from easy to take a 
1 
system, Law has bol­place each year among the backfield men at
stered up the line on Notre Dame and John
every occasion. vVhen the quarter sent a 
acccmplished just that. He wa·s especiallyback through his position there was usu­clever when. called on to circle th.e op·
ally a hole the1:.e at just the right psycho­
poncnts ends and to take a smash offlogical moment: Defensively, John broke tackle. Besides being an exceptional ballup about an many of the opponent's pet carrier Roach was without doubt one of th~players as any man on the line. Breaking most reliable punters on the team. Histhrough time and again to nail backs be­.kicks were long and high and put the ball
hind the line became a hobby for this ·second year man and if a good start means back to safety in enemy territory many anything in the realm of the gridiron world. times. during the pas·t three years. 
Fred C~l1itie) Collins 
Portland, Oregon · i 
I
I 
The. Minnesota game was a 
He gave great promise of i·
t 
\' 
I
costly injury because it saw J·oe breaking into the ranks of those 
Boland, a man nearing the end who have a corner on pigskin !' 
!
I of a great college career and and the rofogravure sections; ! 
f
vVhitie Collins; the smiling full-;.--..... ·--..
A ten second man he 'vas fast I. back just on the threshold o( 
and hit hard. One of the most i
play disabled for a season. Fred t 
popular men on the wonder team
was a plunger on the Sayden -1926 editi~n giving promise of 
. type, his legs kept · pounding away ·even when five lineman big things .we loolr _forward to -v· . 
\ ....;ifestooned themselves on his his 1!:127 performances. A great -·~· ·. "\~~~ 
.__,.)·:_;]
powerful frame. player and a man. 
" 
:::,.;,;..., ~ :;...,. ,<..-, ...:..:--.,.. ~ . ~ ~ .' . 

Page 20 1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
"Illie" ·Byrne 
Oakland, California. 
We usually hear of Notre Dame men coming out of the West to bare their wares before gridiron fans, and Illie Byrne was no exception to that rule.. California sent Byrne to Notre Dame with a fine preparatory record and he has fullfilled every point of it. Possessing eyes that could find a hole in the best of lines and the speed of a seasoned track man, he added much to te success of the Irish team of twenty six. When Illie car­ried the ball he hit· the line hard and sure and usually he was .downed somewhere on the other side of the line of scrimmage. With the experience which Byrne has gained on this year's varsity he should be ·one of the main cogs in next season's team. 
Jack McGrath 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
The full back position this season was one of the things that shifted with every hike. Injuries came early in the season and new blood was tested. Jack answered the call and proved his strength by bending the opposing line where he saw fit. The old punch he carried during the boxing season last winter manifested itself in his every movement on the gridiron. For a sopho­more with little experience. in varsity competition l\IcGrath came through with a distinctive class that promises to carry him far along the road of football perfection during his next two years nt Notre Dame. 
Bennie lVIcAdams 
Lowell,. Massachusetts 
Massachusettes has sent some great football players to Notre Dame .and among them Bennie l\lcAda~s ranks high. He played the position of tackle on the .Rockne machine througho~t his college career and steadily progressived towards perfection as experience moulded his style of play. One of the things which have made Notre Dame teams consistant winners are men "such as l\lcAdams who was always ready to go in and play a heavy and hard fought game of football. Bennie came to the front in a spectacular fashion during th~ past season and his value to the team was knownbyeveryone who saw this years·, eleven in action. 
·Joe Benda 
Duluth, Minnesota 
Had it not been for an injury in his sophomore year Joe would have undoubtedly been one of the greatest ends of all Notre Dame football history Regardless of this, however, Joe has been one of the outstanding assets to the Rockne team during the past three seasons. Playing the wing position with a m_arked perfection, Benda caused many opposing halfbacks to be thrown for losses back of the line of scrimmage and many ·dreamed~£ end runs to be smashed in the makin~. · · 
Frank Keefe 
Chicago, Illinois 
. Beside being exceptional end himself, Rockne has produced no end of great ends. Frank came down from Chicago a couple of years ago with one of the greatest reputations of any midwestern prep school man. He played excellent ball the year the Four Horsemen visited the more im­portant gridirons of the country. This year among a field of ends equal to the best years of Notre Dame football Frank played a consistant game of the highest caliber. l\Iaking an end position on a Rockne team is almost as hard as the opponents find it to circle the ends but Frank Keefe made just that position..______ 
Jim Hurlburt 
New York City 
Jim played one of the most enviable end posi­tions on the team this season as every fan who watched Notre Dame play will vouch for. Tearing in time and againto break up the plays that were 
.. to go around his flank became a hobby with Jim and by the end of 'the season he had reached an aimost transcendant stage in this field of play. His clever interference allowed the Notre Dame b-.cks to carry the ball for long gains around his side of the line and was responsible for· many of the gains cut-off by our men this season. Opposing wing .men found Hurlburt to be a tough man to take out and conversely to be always wide awake and ready to do jus·t that thing to them. 
Jerry Ramsavage 
Portland, Oregon 
·Jerry came a long way to play on a Notre Dame football team and he was certainly not disap­pointed. In his second year· at Notre Dame Jerry has· made the varsity squad and has written 111~ name indelibly in Rockne's mental notebook his ability for tackling anything. On the defensive Jerry was of exceptional worth, being one of the hardest men on the squad to move out of the way. Offensively Ramsavage opened up wide holes in the opposing line ~nabling the ball carriers to make long consistant gainiO throuJi:h the forward wall of the opponents. 
·John Doarn · 
Omaha? Nebraska 
With so many good tackles on the squad it is no wonder that the opponents "found it next "to impossible to score on the Notre Dame team this Fall. John Doarn was one of the outstanding linesmen of the season. His offensive work opened wide gaps in the line of opposition and enabled the Irish backs to reap long gains· through his side of the line. Defensively he stood out as an unpenatrable wall ·against the opposing linesmen and few backs ever carried .the ball far through his position. John bolstered. up the varsity "squad in a most comendable manner and will be remem­bered as a tackle of true merit. 

l'C:~-~ -~-.::------~ ----~---------------~-----------~-------­
1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 21 

Page 22 1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW 


:: 
,, 
Notre Dame 77 Beloit 0 
That September pastime of some 10,000 Notre Dame and South Ben~""l natives, who come to Cartier Field for the first gani.e of the year and a glimpse at K. K. Rockne's contributfon to the great sport, was a little bit more bore­some than usual this year. 
The crafty mentor of the Fight.in' Irish fooled all the skeptics in the opening of the 1926 grind for he put the gridiron work aside and ran a Sl~nsa­tional little track meet. Beloit was the victim and the score 77 to 0. All events. were ceded to the Irish without question. 
Scores of aspiring young Irishmen, some of them backs and not a_ few. of them linemen, were pushed into the fray as the occasion demanded, and before they had finished with their afternoon's work eleven touchdowns, a safety and enough kicks after go~l to fill out the score had been registere.d. 
But that doesn't tell how the fans felt about it. Every one of them anxious to put the stamp of approval on the 1926 Irish eleven, each had a chance to be more .optimistic than he had expected. Some twenty backfield men. ran ,\rild, taking the ball for gains of from one to D6 yards. And some 40 linemen smothered the Beloit. offense completely. 
Chris Flanagan gave. promise of h~s future destiny when he took .the' first kickoff of the second half on his own five yard. lirte and had no trouble in sifting through the whole Beloit team for a touchdown. 
A nice game it was7 if you get a kick out of seeing wild and wooly running. 



\. 
i 
I 
r-: 
! 
l 
t 
i r'­
! I ! 
J ! 
Page 23
1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
A Chip Off The Old Rock 
Beloit Daily News 
That's about the best way we can describe them. vigilance of Champ Ch.evigney accounts for the remainder of the 7 7 points.
\Vorking with the co-ordinated precisio~ of a piston \n a well-oiled motor, they shift over; the From where we were it looked like a mighty rhytmic "one-two-hike" a thing of beauty and a sweet line that was working in there for the Blue 
joy forever. Now it's an offtackle smash with the and Gold. McManmon and Boland, tackles de luxe, interferers leaping before clearing the path as wild­gave the best exhibition of line play as it should be fire licks up the dried underbrush. Now an end run. that has been seen here in some time. Boeringcr A sweeping poem of motion out toward the other and Fredericks at center appeared good. Voedisch stands featuring a remarkable speed and p":'ecision. and Wallace show potentialities of developing into And again it may be a pass. Dropping back from a the. kind of flankmen that every coach dreams .ahout 
deceptive formation, hitting off toward the side at but few ever sec. a rapid rate. and at the peak of that charge unloosing In the backfield division it looked like there were the pigskin to snap it twenty 
two combinations that were espe­yards into the arms of a wait­
cially good. Now it was ing end.· 
Hearden: who charges through Combining all these things 
BELOIT 
holes with the idea that he 
Here's to the men, the pride of 
knows where l.t is going-andand flavoring highly with decep· 
Old Beloit, 
gets there. Hearden. the pre­Irish swept down upon the 
tion and cunning the Fighting 
mier interferer turned ball-toter. Blue Devils of · Beloit and 
Here's to our football team! 
Next it would be Wynne: a
Here's to the boys who fight with 
Wynne that . looks a lot likesmothered them to the chant of 
all ·their might 
the great "Chet" in action, a highest score ever run up on 
77 to 0. It was the second 
Here's to a champion taem, 
smasH:ng yard gainer. Now historic Cartier field .. 
Rah! Rah! Rah! 
Flanagan has a chance. Phan­tom-like. dancing. whirlin~?;.
According to all reports 
Back them with "Pep'' that lead3 
twisting for 20 yards. Nor canFlanagan was ill.-or at least 
to Victory 
we forget Edwards. Edwards the cool general who. reminds a convalescent. If that be so, 
we suggest that "Rock" inject 
Spirit of old Beloit, 
one of Casablanca maneu­the refit of his charges with 
Shout Ol-e Ol-sen, SHout Yon-ny 
vering pawns on a battle-scar­some high-class germs for 
Yonson 
red. cross-barred tu·f. scintillating. At the start of 
Christy was anything if not 
Let her go Beloit and win! 
Or perhaps it would be the the second half he returned the 
reserve backs: Cpevigney who kick-off some ninety-five ya-:-ds gets off with the speed of an for a touchdown, the first time that this stunt had elderly gentleman who has stepped on an over-zealous been pulled in four years. Aside from that he con­
banana peel; Chevigney who whirls like a soinningtented bimself with 20 and 30 yard gains during 
. top. Or it might be· Collins of whom tH-> fe11ow the remainder of the time that he was in. 
next to us asks "\Vhcrc's the cannon'~.: -a C,..,11:no; But Flanagan was just one of the ·many backs 
who refuses to be stopp~d although several tacl<.lcrs 
that Saturaay. Rockne kept shooting them in like fr.~toon themselves around his po_wcrfnl frame.· 
a card player shuffling a pack and the remarkable Then there was Niemic who was allowed to show
thing was that all stepped .of from the start. but little but who looked mighty sweet. Dahman
Captain Tom Hearden started the ball rolling 
when he smashed across the line just exactly four _who was the tacklers desc-ibing a~abesq11cs in the minutes after time had been called. It had been put October haze in an effort to stop those clever feet. in position for this thrust by the plunging of Elmer 
Lawrence was the main sorin~. vital cog, star per­
\Vynne, brother of the famous Chet of '20, '21. 
former, star or \yholc planetary system.-whatcvcr
At about this juncture all the rest of the backs you wish to call him.-for the \Visconsin team. 
on the field said "That's a great idea!" an individ­It was Lawrence who caught the punts; Lawrenceually. and collectively and quite auspiciously they who carried the ball, wbm carried; Lawrencedecided that they would do likewise. 
who threw the passes; Lawrence who. was aIt was the Big Parade in gridiron version and tower_ of strength on defense. As someone sotheir earnestness is shown by the list that .traveled 
aptly put it the only reason that Beloit didn'taccross the zero line for counters during the fray. Touchdowns .by Wynne, Maxwell. Dahman, Niemic,. 
have . a better aerial _attack was .because no sys­Chevigney. Flanagan, Edwards, Collins and McNally · tem whereby Lawrence could catch ·the passe~ which 
(2) · along ~~·ith. t.he safety .contributed by the he himself threw had been worked ou~ 


1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
Notre Dame Minnesota 
Having seen .the creditable manner in which Minnesota winded up its football season, it becomes all the more singular that the Irish essayed n I. 
super-task when they confronted the Gophers so early as October 9. 

Nevertheless, these Notre Dame juggernauts will try about anything else, just so it be in the gridiron line, and Minnesota looked the same to them as any other team. A!l jokes about the Minnesota shift are worthless now for the boys from the frozen: north did plenty of shifting and caused the Irish plenty of worry even though the latter won 20 to 7. 
"C~·ashing Herb" Joesting, the miracle man of the IYiinnesota grid~ was trying his best to thwart the Irish that day but he wasn't so successful. He contributed to a Gopher score well toward the end of the first half and had the satisfaction of knowing that the two teams were tied 7 to 7 when the third period began. 
But He~·b, with the whole Minnesota ·lot, felt the sting of the Irish whip during the last half. As advertised, Mr. Rockne threw his kisses across Memorial Stadium but they were in the form of touchdowns. 
Bucky Dahman's scintilla~ing run shortly after the first quarter began was easily the feature of t"he game for Bucky dodged and. stiff-arme.d for 70 yards worth of thrill and a touchdown. 
Boland and. Collins were injured clurin·g the game and as it afterward · developed, ··kept out for the whole season. Otherwise the game would have been spotless. 


! r 
l 1 
I 
I i 
1 l 
>}_·_· __ 
r­
1:.­
1 
t 
I 
[-I , 
~--.... ~it". -{....;/ , 
·, 
Notre Dame Runs Wild to Smother Minnesota, 20-7 
By \VARREN BROWN. Chicago Herald and Examiner 
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn., Oct. 9.-Doc Spears of Minnesota hung the wrong light in the belfry .at Nr,>rthrop Field today, ·for the Rockne Ramblers· came by land, instead of by air, to a smashing -20 to 7 victory that entertained a· record crowd of 53,000-about as well as any Minnesota home 
gathering will be entertained for the balance of the football year. Notre Dame's line withstood all serious attempts of the· Doctor's ball carriers to rush it illto sub-· mission, and in. th:: second half of a game that was considerably harder fought than was healthy for the 
boys on this bright October afernoon, the . Irish invaders seemed to have just as much zip left as when they started, while the Gophers had wilted perceptibly. 
For one·l;alf of the football game there wasn't a great deal to choose between the . two teams, each putting across a touchdown. 
Notre Dame got its first one very soon after the game began, . Ray Dahman sneaking through an opening between the Goph­ers' right tackle and end and wiggling his way into the clear, thereafter sprinting the rest of an excursion of 62 'yards for a touchdown. N i e m i c very promptly kicked the goal. 
IRISH IGNORE PASS 
Minnesota· was not long in getting t~ score squared, and they utilized the . forward pass, a weapon which Notre Dame has found very convinc­ing in days. gone by to quiet all sorts of opposition. Today, -however, the Irish were so busy slashing through the Minnesota line for numerous yards they didn't bother much with the pass, trying but three 
in the entire matinee. 
The one that ~vened up the· count was flung by Geer, and it landed in the clutches of Capt'. Wheeler, who proceeded to outrun a few of the 
Irish for the only time· they were outrun in the entire afternoon. Wheeler's canter of 20 yards was turned into . a touchdown. and Peplaw kicked the goal, tying the score. This was· the way affairs stood at thl! end of the first half. \Vhen the battle was resumed Notre Dame took the offensive and very throughly out­rushed the Gophers. Christy Flanagan eventually sliping through tackle and end and weaving his way past all pursuers, for another one of those 62-yard. excursions thic \vere so popular with the Rockne 
lviiNNESOTA 
Hats off; to thee· To. your colors true we shall ever be 
Firm and Strong, united arc we! 
Rah! Rah! Rah! For Skiumah 
Rah! Rah! Ra!J! Rah! ·Rah! fo~ 
the U of M! 
ramblers today. Christy tried to boot the goal, but missed it. 
Notre Dame, still scorning the air line, was rushing toward its third touchdown when the period ended. There was . very little delay in their 
getting it after the fourth opened, "Red"Hearden finally scampering sixteen yards for the score, because sixteen yards were all that were required. Niemic kicked ~his goal, too. · 
In ·the closing minutes Minnesota was flinging the ball around the place with little or no effect. It simply wasn't a day for Gophers. 

a head-on collision 
The latter, by. the way, was the Gophers' most consistent ground gainer today and what ripping the Gophers did to Notre Dame's line was largely charge­able to this' young man. · 
Minnesota was not without its casualties. Barn­
hart was car:ied from the field unconscious a short time before the . game ended and there being no ·more business before the meeting, the boys adjourned. 
soon afterwards. 
\Vhen Notre Dame. is able to run a Minnesota 
team ragged and win by a score of 20 to 7 without 
usi~g more than three forward passes, none of them 
complete, I wonder what is. going to happen to 
some of the enemy when the Irish get throwing the 
ball around. 
Indianapolis News 
FT. GIBSON. Okla.. November ·15.----:-The Har­\'ard Lampoon must have .written ·an exceedingly humorous a·ticle about Brown to get beat Saturday 21-0. · It's a compliment to Harvard to say they broke off athletic relations. · They haven't shown any athletics in years. \Vhy not get Rockne to coach the U. S. army in the next war. 
Notre Dame's progress to­ward another score or two was hampered by fumbling, O'Boyle losing the ball once while he was within the Gophers' 5-yard line. But take it ali' in all, the boys from South Bend dem­onstrated that it will take a ~tronger Conference team than Minnesota to put a dent in the Notre Dame shield this year. 
BERNHART INJURED 
Play, especially in the first half, was furious. Boland, a Notre Dame tackle, was carried from tqc field with a broken leg, and Collins , one of the backs, followed him to the hos­pital a few: minutes later with a broken jaw, as the result of 
with Joesting. · 
. 





1926:..FOOTBALL•REVIEW 



Notre Dame 28 Penn State 0 
Sometime when you have an afternoon to kill, try roll-blocking the Niles interurban a couple of times and then sum up your seasations. You'll at least know how the Penn State crew f~lt after it had opposed the Fightin' Irish for four quarters. 
Truly enough the Notre Dame el~ven took the easterners "in stride" but it so developed that the same stride was a powerful· g1:ound-eater. Four touchdowns, .and four kicks . after. goal for harmony's . sake, enabled the Thundering Herd to win, 28 to 0. 
To begin with, the Irish struck a felling blow at the Nittany Lions almost before the whistle blew. · Only a few plays had been reeled off when Parisien passed to O'Boyle who had little trouble in running some 20 or 30 yards for the first touchdown. 
After that it was a question of how much the score would be. For art's sake, a touchdown a quarter was decided upon and the Notre Dame machine proceeded to pound out its quarterly seven points, ~he rest of the time being used in mere fooling around. 
Johnny Roach, Bucky Dahman and Butch J;'•Hemic, in addition to Harry O'Boyle, whose adventures have been exploited above, pushed over the markers. A flock o.f other backs pierced the Penn line with mocking regularity but they couldn't make touchdowns because the formula didn't call for it. 
Incidentally, we might mention that Penn State tied the Irish, zero to nothing a year ago, so the 1926 affair swung the scales in the proper direction. 

1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 2'7 
Notre Dame Tramples Pe11n State, 28 to 0 
New Yorlt Herald Tribune 
CARTIER FIELD. Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 16. The backs would leap ahead of the ball carrier like (Special) The Nittany Lion roared on Clrticr ftc!d a flame licking up an oil streak and wipe out every­to-day but tqat's about all it did do. The Irish thing in front of them. Or if it was a line play, 
ter::iors made· Hugo Bczdcck's Penn State eleven a the · Irish forward wall would make the Quaker hit Pensive as it rolled up a 28 to 0 score over the think that they should hang out a sign open all visitors in a one-sided affair. Notre Dame· cavorted night to make it complete. Then too, Rockne's 
for four qartcrs with perfect case and proved to the charges were clcnr and handled themselves well at word that Knutc K. Rockne, the canny Swede, is all times. again ready to make this place a sta:-on America's 
Battling unJer the handicap of being fo:-ccd to football map. play without the presence of Collins or Boland, Mr. Niemic had a lot to do with the transforming the showing made by . Notre Dame here to-day of the Lion into a kitten. Not that he's a magician. places them in the front ranks amoung national grid 
lie isn't; though h! seems to 
be just that as he passes, runs and kicks down there on the white-lined field. As it was he was the probable star. We say probable because there was Charlie Riley, "Champ" Che­vigncy, "Bucky" Dahman. "Red" Hcardcn and a plethora of other backs that could be selected as stars and still keep us in the running as far as an astronomy exam goes. Each had his brief time to strut in this matinee and they. did it 
well. 
The first blood was drawn within two minutes after the kickoff. After Notre Dame kicked off P c n n S t a t c lost the ball on downs. On 
PENN STATE 
Fight, fight, fight For the Blue and White Victorq will our slogan be Dear Alma },later fairest of all Thy loyal sons will obey thy call 
To fiqht, fight, fight With all their might Over the goal to fain Into the game for Penn State's 
fame Fight on to victory All along that line. 
machines. Penalties were the pet bogies of the afternoon and each eleven drew them upon itself in large quantities. An overcast sky punctuated with pepperings of rain failed to deter the 22,000 fans who turned out for the joust. The traditional blue of Notre Dame was forsaken when it was found that the Nittany team had jerseys almost iden:ticall y the same as those worn .by the home team. The vivid emerald 
green used by Rockne against 
Princeton . a few years ago re­
placed the regular sweater. 
South Bmd Tribune 
Notre Dame. while not run­ning quite hog wild. did romp with considerable dexterity over Penn State at Cartier field


the second play after Notre 
Dame took the pigskin a forward pass, Nicmic to }'Cstcrday afternoon. In fact, the Rox romocd be­O'Boylc was good for a touchdown. And right yond the field and back of the Nittany Lio~'s goal he-c it might be said that probably the most startl­posts on four occasions, and on three other occasions i;g-fcature of the fray was the carial attack unleashed romped within .one· yard, four yards and· eight yards by the Rockmen. So far this season they · have of the last chalked line· at Penn State's end of the depended on straight football but not to-day. field. It was a romping good game from the Notre Each of the succeeding quarters saw scoring by Dame viewpoint, with the Rox. showing just eight 
the Irish. In the second quarter Niemic toted the ­
times .as much strength as Penn State showed. · The pigsktn across; in the third it • was Dahman; and final sco:-e stood 28 to 0. finally Jor.Jn Chcvigncy got the bug; The extra 
That; however, docs not tell th• · tale which the point was added in each instance by way of a !.'Jittany Lion wishes to keep quiet in the . jungle place kick. 
around State College. Pa. But. out here in ·the \vide Bczdeck's ·eleven put up a game battle and were open spaces of political exposes and ·sand dt1ncs it can 
· always ready to ·take· advantage of any misplays but be shouted from housetops and gold domes in these we:-c few and far between and when they did particular. occur did not carry with them a possibility of s~or­
Notre Dame played with the ball most all· of the ing. Even when they did get possession of the ball 
afternoon, and the only times Penn State had the the Irish linemen would break through and smear 
oval it lost ·ground. The ·losers would have been the plays before ·the backs had an a'pportunity to 
better off if they had never touched ..tl11! ball for in get under way. all they lost 39 yards b;• just handling the inflated 
Notre Dame won because of the finly coordinated pigskin. On the same basis of figuring Notre Dame attack held on tap at all times. The interference gained 359 yards, making a net gain fa: the Rox ;md bockin~ were things of bea\'·--and joys forever. side of the issue 3 9 8 yards. 


T:~~~~r~~-~:_.~ . 
.. --------------------------------­
l. 
Page 2s 1926 FOOTBALL. REVIEW 

. -~-. : 
I­
!. 
I 
. ! 
i 
~ I ~ 
'I 
Notre Dame 6 ·Northwestern 0 
If Northwestern University's Purple Wildcats could tangle with Notre Dame's Fightin Irish and not make ·an epochal struggle of it, football fans throughout the middle west would not be so keenly interested over the annual meeting. 
For. the past three or four years, the Purple and the Irish have been battling tooth and toe nail, although the \Vildcats have been destined to the bottom of the heap of all occasions. Desiring not to spoil the rivalry and at the same time to keep it close enough, the Rockmen invaded Evanston late in October and dropped the Northwestern eleven, 6 tq 0, in its ne~v stadium. 
Better games than that might have been played in the middle west during the fall of 1926 but no record exists of those games. Two bdlliant elevens, equally alert in offense and defense, played for three quarters and neither could break the deadlock. · 
Then the Idsh took to the air! Two well-aimed passes from Art Parisien and Niemic had crossed the Purple line for· the one and only score of the contest. It was ·exceptional football and thousands who looked on couldn't dig up a thrill that equalled it. 
Our old friend,· Ralph (Moon) Baker, Northwesterns great captain, was there, battling Notre Dame futiley for the third straight year. Moon didn't win but he had the old fight and stamina that has let him shine for ·these three seasons. ' 
After the game was over everyone banqueted and notables sermonized and a couple thousand rode the South Shore chariot back to South Bend. 'Twas the game of games, as.the poets would have it. 

1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 29 
Left Handed Passes Bring Defeat To N. U. 
By DoN MAXWEL. 
Fighting. fighting. fighting up and down a chalk marked field; battling. battling. battling for cleat torn inches: pushing. pulling, plunging. 22 yomh­ful football players from Northwestern ;tnd Notre Dame surged back and forth yesterday until it seemed that the ever lengthening shadows wquld envelop the Evanston field in darkness before either -:-earn 
had scored. Then out of the dusk came the bJll; hurled from Northwestern's 22 yard line. it sped with bullctlike swiftness to the arms of a Notre Dame player. He whirled and sped across the goal line and the
I 
.I 
game was won. The score that 40.000 folk were repeating as they left that 

GO! U NORTHWESTERN
field was: Notre Dame, 6; 
No-:thwestern. 0. There were more thrills to 
Go! U! Northwestern!
1: 
come as the minutes of that 
Break right thru that line,
I last quarter ticked away. There was more passing and the ball 
\Vith our colors Flying
I 
I again surged back and forth and 
) 
\Ve will cheer you all the time.
up and down the field. But 
,~ the only ball that counted was 
U! Rah! Rah!
that one that slipped off the nimble .fingers of the left hand 
Fight for victory.
A-of a Notre Dame youth named Parisien, landing in the arms 
Spread. far the fame of our fair 
name,
of a Notre Dame youth named 
Niemic.
I 
Go! Northwestern win that game.
For all of those devils Nie­mic was the only one who cross-l ed the goal line with the ball 
in .his arms.
I All the roads in Chicago may not have led to Evanston yesterday. but that seemed to be the one 
place thousands of folks wanted to be. Central street two hours before the game was jammed with pedestrians and automobiles which tried_ vainly to through the throng on foot. Tr.l.! narro\v 
gates of the unfurnished stadium were emptying their streams of ticket holders long after the whistle sounded.. Roofs of houses adjoining the field were dotted 
black with onlookers and even the girde!'s of the stadium furnished vantage points for men and boys who wanted to sec and cheer. 
With Gl-iarlcs G. Dawes. Vice President· of ~hcsc United States. in one of the boxes, the 40~000 yelling, the bands. playing. and the announcing horns booming the li~cups, Notre Dame kicked· off. · 
i\nd from that kickoff until the last mad dash of Northwestern's yellow haired Baker there was no letup in the .battle. Northwestern looked slow against Carleton;. lr.diana's mediocre team held the Pu:-plc for thrre quarters: the cx~rrtc; thought the team might be a flash and easily ·broken. 
Chicago Tribune. 
But from the kickoff Northwestern's football players fought. and bled, and you wondered why some of them didn't die, as they battled that grid­iron machine from Notre Dame. From their own 34-yard line they pumeled Notre Dame until the ball rested on the Irish team's 40 yard mark. Then they" lost 9 yards, failed at a pass. and punted. Parisien, the youth who throws footballs with his left hand :1s if they were baseballs, fumbled and recovered. His teammate, Niemic, the same to whom Parisien tossed the pass that won the game, punted from behind his goal _line. 
And that break kept Rockne's men on defense for the re­. maindcr of the quarter. 
Baker slid of tackle. tried to skirt the ends; Gustafson pusn­'cd through the line and Lewis bucked it and as the first quarter ended Northwester had the ball on Notre Dame's 14 yard line. It looked like a goal from field for the purple. 
But Northwestern tried a pass on its fourth down as the second quarter began and Hear-­
den intercepted it back of his ~o.ll for a t-:mchback. Notre Dame took the ball, but couldn't break the Purple linr. 
Fighting, fighting, fighting, the two teams bucked and never broke. 
Now it was Northwestern 
that threatened; -now it was Notre Dame. Once ncar the end of the first half the fast stepping, dodg­in~. twisting Flanagan skirted the ends and passed his way down to the Purple -1 7 yard line. And then it looked as if Notre Dame would score. 
Thcr didn't. · Battling. battling, b~ttling, the Northwestern line ..h~ld :1nd Northwestern took the ball. They had it when the half cridcd. 
In the "third quarter Notre Dame threatened agai~. Baker had juggled a· pass by Flanagan intended for Hcardcri, and the ball bounc-ed ·back Northwestern. 
And that briqgs us to that last quarter. 
·McNally. a third string quarter back: took Baker's punt on. Notre Dame's 20-yard line and ran 10 yards. He was promptly yanked and· Parisien sub­stituted. Rccknc wanted to usc his ac:-ial game. The left hand.cr sped.~· pass .to \Vallace ~n· the Purple 35 
yard line. and he dodged his way to the North­
· 
western J 4 yard mark. Parisien tried it again. This time he shot the ball . . to Nicmic and. Nicmic, with no Purple player in front of him, scored. 
t· . 
~< -·. l'~ 1-~~~~~->~={~:;~g~::~: ,:.k +­
~~~~-~-~-~~p~--~~~~*-~:---~~~~--~--~~~~~~==~==--;~*_H·~:----=--_--_--~---_~-~;-~---··-•---~~---'~--••-·/. 
i 
1---,---::::,:.~ 
l 
l 
I 
! 
I 
I 
I 
I j ! j 

i 
'!I· 
l 
! 
j 
i 
i 
I
t. '­
!'· ~~~-= 
1'l 

....... ' ~ 
·::;::--::. 
,..,·; 
......" 
'~-;:·-~·3 
,;<
II 
-
----=-==-__.-•:·_-::..:_{~J-:,:~--~-·--:__ :~-~~--

___ _._:.~ 


f ·<---::.. ; :.>-(' 
-·-----­
Page 30 1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW 


Notre Dq.me 12 
~ 1 
Georgia Tech 0
l 
l
i. This ancient figure about harnessing the. hurricane begins to grate by
: 
now, but no sane man can argue that a tornado was not tied down at all corners by Notre Dame's Thundering Herd the last week in October. 
Billed as the Golden Tornado from sunny Georgia the Georgia Tech eleven hit South· Bend on a· day when Indiana weather was it is worst and were blown about for a 12 to 0 .loss. Frankly speaking, the Tornado was supposed to have been tied in a more decisive fashion but the Irish had a listless afternoon of it. 
As they would, Mr. Rockne's lads had a touchdown before most of us had a chance to bat an eye. Then Georgia Tech began to have things its own 
i
way fm~ another pe1:iod. "\Veil toward the end of the second quarter the Irish scored their second marker and the blankets were promptly lifted on top of I 
I 
the scoring celebrities. 
I 
"Red" Barron, the Georgia back, was very much in evidence throughout J. 
\1~;
the game and, in fact, if a team of Barrons could have faced the -Irish that day it might not have been so cold. Harry O'Boyle was doing some strutting himself that afternoon and might have broken into fierce headline if his pet leg had not taken a spell of bad temperament, 

r'· 

1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 31 


Notre Dame Easy Victo~ as ·Georgia Tech Fall~ 
By HARRY MACNAMARA. Chicago Herald and Examiner. 
NOTRE DAME. Ind.. Oct. 30.-Knute Rockne whose bald football dome is almost as famous as the golden dome of old Notre Dame, where the boys cheer and play football in thei-:-idle moments, did not have to drag forth the hidden ball trick, deceptive pads. or even a left-handed passer to achieve an Irish victory over Georgia Tech's Golden Tornados in their annual combat here today. He certainly did not reveal any more of his plays. passes or the ability 'or lack of it of his variou~ performers than was necessary to ptit over a I 2 to 0 triumph. Rockne wanted to win. of course. but his teJ.m was under wraps 
ROACH SCORES FIRST Johnny Roach scored the first touchdown before the game was five minutes old. Notre Dame kicked off and held and Parham punted to his own 40-yard line. where Maxwell grounded the ball. Roach sprinted around end for a 20-yard gain. then "Red" Smith hit the line for two short gains, 'and Roach lugged the ball around end for ten yards and a first down on the Georgia 5-yard line. Smith and Chevis;(ney s;(Ot only two yards in two cracks at the line. · Roach again ci~cled end for the score. Smith's dropkick for the extra point was blocked. 
O'Boyle paved the way for today. 
the second score by breaking K n u t e started his shock 
GEORGIA TECH through tackle for a 30-yard troopers and they put over a 
s;(ain. which gave the Irish a touchdown in the first few 
I'm a rambling wreck first down on the Georgia minutes. Then. in the second 
40-yard line. O'Bovle was 
From Georgia Tech
quarter. Not~e Dame put over 
knocked out on the play and ·;mother touchdown. which s;(ave 
And a helluva engineer! had to quit the game.· McCabe them a 12-point working relieved him. and on th£ first
A helluva. helluva, helluva, helluva,
margin. From then on Notre play speared a pass from Nie-Dame was content to assume 
Helluva engineer. 
mic that netted eighteen vards. 
a defensive role with Flanagan Dahman and Niemic alternatedpunting on the slightest provo· 
Like all good jolly fellows 
at luggin~ the ball fo-:-shortcation. 
I drink my whiskey clear· 
s;(ains off tackle until theyGeorgia had the ball during reached the 5 -yard inc. Dah­
'Cause I'm a rambling wrcch
the greater part of the second man crashed through left tacklehalf but was unable to get 
From Georgia Tech 
for the touchdown. His drop· hut didn't know what to do 
anywhere. Georgia had the ball 
kick for the extra point went with it. 
And a helluva engineer! 
wide. Notre Dame closed up like a clam thereafter.
Rockne. having used up all 
of his available fi ..st string full-hacks in the Minnesota and Northwestern games, Elmer \Vynne and Fred Collins. took the opportun­ity to te~t out a few more aspiring young ~en. He tried Richard ("Red") Smith, whose prevtous 
:lctivities have been at guard, as a plun~er and the sorrcltop did very well. In fact, Rockne s fullbacks did most of the ball carry~ng. 
Harry O'Boyle. who has been hanging around for a season or so. also got a chance at punching the line. and Harry's work was the outstanding feature of the game. He ripoed off several smashes of 25 vards ·or more and looked' very much like the goods. Ha~ry ~vas in iured in the second period and had to 
give the job _back to Smith. Neither Christy Flanagan. "Red" Heardon. Johnny Niemic, Ray Dahman or Art Parisien. left-handed pas.ser. WO'\S required to do any gallopin~ against the Georgians: they merely went through the mentions of playing a football game. "Red" Edwards. one of the Irish captains..did not tak<' part in the contest, and neither did .Joltn McManmon. a regular tackle. It was said they were suffering from minor injuries . 
.By JAMES CRUSINBEP.RY --I -· 
Chicago Tribune Press Service. _ 
South Bend. Ind.• Oct. 29.-(Special.)-N~tre Dame's football players were so badly bruised. in the battle with Northwestern .last Saturday that Coach Rockne ·will not have more than seventy-fiv~ or eighty men in good condition for the combat to~or­row with Georgia Tech. 
lt was almost pitiful to sec the wounded limping about the campus and the practice field this af~ernoon when the final drill was staged before tackhng the gentlemen of the south. An effo~t undoubtedly was made to suppress this condition of affairs as it would perhaps inspire great· hope in the Georgians if they knew that Rockne was so badly handicapped. Today he bad only seven varsity elevens in the drill. barely neough men, it is estimated ·to get through· the 
first half; 
The name of all the wounded cannot be bad for publication because it is the custom at this institution to utter no squawk when a man is knocked out.. lje is supposed to swallow it arid get even the next ttme. 
:. ·. ' .

.~\..: . 
....._ 

--··---------··--·-----~-------=-·-r--_________:___._ ·-~--~··-----:--=-.~::-..~·---------~--__:::__:_--·-·-~..:~--------~~ ....:...::..~-~· 
·Page 32 1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
Notre Dame 26 Indiana 0 
After Western Conference. opponents who aspired to-hang the crape on the Irish had been twice thwarted, Messrs, Boeringer, Edwards et all, sud­. denly came to-the conclusion that three is a charm and so the gay young 
gents from Indiana were elected to.fill out the bill. 
It's said that the V{aggish w·abash didn't flow with all its reckless. abandon on the night of the game and the -red fires that were supposed to have mirrored the·happiness in the Hoosier hearts flared up against the Saturday ~ight sky with a peculiar shade of blue. These Irish did their task in a wholesome manner for they pushed· across four touchdowns with enough kicks to ring the final score up thus: 26 to 0. 
But that isn't the half of it. It happened that Mr. Knute Rockne was 
. preparing to lead one of his sightseeing tours to New York o.n the following Saturday and· being a very able tour master he had to get the ground all set. So he went off to N. Y. a week ahead of time and got the lay of the land. Accordin-gly Mr. Hunk Anderson took charge of the team that week and did his. job quite nobly while "Rock" was looking over the Army· steam roller. 
Despite Mr.. Rockne's absence his lads played a very neat game and completely baffled the Crimson who had it in their mind to steal a· march while the grizzled mentor was on the sojourn. Two touchdowns came in the first half·and another pair found their way on to the scoreboard during the 
·. last two periods.. Passes, of qti_ality and quantity, did not ~elp the C~·ims9n to score although. they were dangerously close at times. 

\ 
1 
\ 
I I
1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 33 
Rox Perfect Coordination Play 
i 
!,1,
By KENNETH S. CONN. South Bend Tribune. 
[ 
Notre Dame still reigns over the Hoosier realm of football with an undisputed hand, and the hard! frof!l do\Vn around Bloomington; flying a crimson banner, must wait and hope for a future chance to unseat Notre Dame from its throne. 
Yesterday was just another chance for Indiana.. but a triumph for Notre Dame. The combat was waged before some 12.000 spectators at Cartier field, the most· colorful crowd of the year, ·and 
ended in a 26 to 0 rout for the state leaders. The Crimson, a young and Hopeful team, saw it~ chances shattered at the vei:y start. It saw its 
hopes ~-:> wipe out the· sting of 
two ·Northwestern defeats and a beating at the hands of \Vis­consin fade with the sun setting 
behind ~he west stands, full of alumni and students who rc­·maineo 1oyal although admit­ting the . hopelessness of the task. 
FLASHES OF REAL FOOTBALL 
For Notre Dame it· was just another game. another chance to perfect its coordination. and ·another step towa~ds that elusive national championship which hangs in . a . delicate balance next Saturday above the Yankee stadium of ·New York when the Army is meet. 
·Indiana. while defeated. was not disgraced. for the Crimson 
INDIANA 
Indiana, Oh Indiana! Indiana we're all for you We will fight for the Cream. and Crimson · · For the glory of old I U. 
Never daunted we will not falter In the battle we're· tried and true Indiana, oh Indiana! 
Indiana we're .all for you! 
while the ·back was slipping through tackle for a substantial gain. 
PAT PAGE'S INDIANANS ·STOPPED By ARCHIE \VARD Ch[cago Tribune News Service 
Notre Dame. Ind.. Nov. 6. -A band of titans inspired to­day carried the colors of Notre Dame to a 2 6 to 0 victory over Indiana. 
The fifteen thousand who were in attendance came not so much.. with the hope of watch­ing a close contest as to sec the men and weapons with which Not-:-e Dame hopes to beat the Army next Saturday. 
They saw enough to satisfy. 
warriors battled not only with their bodies. toes and hands but with their heads. and showed· flashes .of rral football prowess .which would be a credit to .any ntaster of the. game. · 
The ·statistics would indicate a sordid· arid un­matched ·frav. but for once the ·figures fail to tell the real unbiased story; Notre Dame made. 21· first downs to Indiana's four. nvo of .which were gained by the plain digging into the turf and pusling tired bodies past a havier· opposition for needed yardage. 
RED . SM~TH PLUNGES TO FAME 
Since it takes a ·sor-e! top· to make a n~mc: for h.imself on the gridiron· it was Red Smith's turn to hit.. plunge and wiggle his way to fame through the Crimson line. The fcatc; .of this Kaw Kanna. \Vis . . youth were lamelr responsible· for the Rox victory. It was Smith this. Smith tHlt and. Smith some . more .w.hen· ·Notre Dame was ·marching goalward 
:I
1 While Notre Dame was displaying its power, that 
!,;.il 
covered reservoir of strength. the depth of which (l· has never been tested. Indiana was furnishing the I 
!
color. The Crimson was smart enough to pull two ;_ tricks so old they have grandchildren consorting on i
'· 
the gridiron under other variations. One, generally termed an "onside kick" was pulled twice, and was originally schemed by Alonzo Stagg about the same time the O'Grady cow kicked over the lantern. The other was when a linesman suddenly straightened up and started. arguing with the quarte-:back over the choice of plays. This threw Notre bam·e off guard 
They saw the slipp.ery Christy Flanagan :md the fast stepping Tom Hearden scoot yard~ . behind· inter­ference that was beautiful. to watch. They. saw a fut'lback named· Elm~r · \Vynn·c. · a .brother of Chet Wynne, whose plunging ~nee broke the. ~art of 
· 'Nebraska. batter his way through the crimson for­ward '~all. They saw a·· line that. outchargcd and . outm·aneuvcrcd their ··opponents. · . . 
Although Rockne's .men didn't -unfold . all the 
plays in · their r~pertoirc. they gave ·convincing evidence th.at they· have a .lot of" flashy stuff. They had for\vard passes and a powerful ·off-tackle smash which 'Coach. Page's forwards couldn't stop. 
Defeat · \\;as. It~diana's lot f-om . the moment Flanagan . dashed ar-otind . end for 2Q yards and a touchdown on the first pl,ly of the second quarter. But th~. Hoosiers never 'stopped trying:· 
The arithmetic of the game gives an . idea offor touchdowns. Niemic, ·Dahman, ·Flanagan ancl , Notre ' Dame's superiority. R~ckne:s men madeHeardcn added to the grand total of yards gained. 

twenty first downs to Indiana's three, Not:-e Damebut it rcm:~ined for Smith.· to make eight and nine made. 4 3 6 )•ards from scrimmage, while Indiana was
yards through .'the rcd-shirtcd wall .when orily .two ' · and three yards. w~rc needed. picki~g up 43.­
! 


y~--~~~~'?~;¥f' ,~:;:----'4;,~;:,_7' --~ .. 
•. ,.·, 
·~-· 
.,;...., 
'\.. 
Page 34 1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

Notre Dame 7 Army 0 
One perfect play sandwiched in the midst of four tense, tantalizing quarters of stubborn football strife; one perfect play that meant victory for an All-American team over a team of All-Americans; one perfect play, started with a simply, rythmic shift and ended 63 yards away, made it one perfect day for the host of Fighting Irish. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. Seven to nothing was the score! Which was quite enough to raise us to the seventh heaven. · 
It was .smiling Christy of the clam of Flanagan, the boy with the Gulf­Coast tenor, who carried the ball .those sixty-three yards to glory and rested it behind the goal posts that later were brought back to the region around the twin lakes. There were ten other men who also made that touchdown although their names were not in the scoring column. For Christy's sensational· trip was maneuvered by eleven men working in perfect syncronism-just another tribute to the hours of practice on interfering that Rockne fnsist upon. 
After all it's not so much what you do as how you do it in this big pigskin parade and the event known as "Flanagan's Run" was at once beauti­fully simple and simply beautiful. 
This was the .great triumph of Rockne-a feat that proved once. again that he is the greatest of the great. For this bunch of boys, humans, who made up the squad dedicated to Our Lady were the same bunch that rode back from New York with bowed heads last year rankling under a 27-0 defeat by this same Army team. He had taken the green material, worked in his deft manner and that day's team was the result. 
Flanagan's run was not the whole thing-it was merely THE thing. But· anyone that witnessed that obstinate warfare between the two elevens, both fighting to. retain an unsullied slate, will tell you that the 63 yard excursion was not all. Far from it. 

70,000 Fans Watch Notre Dame Win Over Army 
By CHARLES E. PARKER. New York lVorld. 
Christy Flanagan, ~ broth of ~ boy with the He began to execute a series of steps not unlike the blood of Old Erin in his veins and the fire of Old dance of the and of his forebearers. And while the Erin in his soul, ga\'e New York's record gridiron Cadets hesitated. not knowing just where or how to gallcry-70.000 pe::sons-the thrill of their lives meet him. Christy put on steam. tore past them ;tnd his team a dearly desired victory yesterday after­like the Twentieth Century Limited tears past noon when he sprinted 63 yards down the cozy turf Squashville, and went whizzing on toward the last of the Yankee Stadium to score the touchdown whit~ stripe on Army's end of the field. which enable Notre Dame to vanquish Army 7 to 0. 
Some of his mates, anticipating his journey, had 
Christy's was a classic performance. It came on come through on the other side of the line, and they the third play of the third pe::iod in·a football battle promptly formed perfect protection for the runner. ;tS tight and as tense ;tS ever was waged. •It came both before ·and behind, while he journeyed on to unannounced. But its suddenness only made it stand the game-winning score. out the bolder, while the sens~-r----------__..;._____---. Another real son of Erin. tion it created crystallized into 
O'Boyle by name. contributed one of the noisiest, albeit most 
the point fo11owing touchdown.
VICTORY MARCH
orderly, demonstrations the 
and, although it was not known local ball yard has witnessed. 
at the 'time, the scoring for 
Cheer, Cheer for Old Notr.e Dame. 
the day was _ended.
"OFF AGAIN" FLANAGAN 
Wake up the echoes cheering her 
Victory was sweet to NotreFor two periods the em­
name, 
Dame . and its coach and itsbattled elevens, each ambitious 
roote~s.
to clinch its claim for the 
Send a volley cheer on high 
mythical national title. fought 
It was sweet because it their bitter, brilliant fight, with 
Shake down the thunder from 
avenged a defeat· the "Irish" had each refusing to yield a score 
the sky. 
suffered at the hands of the and neither really thereatening 
Cadets la-st year, and it was
What tho the odds be great or 
to earn one. . Eacl~ had ina ugu­the sweeter because it sent Notre
small
rated stirring drives but only to 
Dame well in the lead as sec them end far from the scor­
claimant for the mythical but ing zone through a stiffening 
Old Notre Dame will win over all 
mucH-to-be-desired nation at of the opposition or by reason 
While her loyal som; are marching 
championship. Until yester­of a fumble or misplay. Thus. 
day Army had been regarded as
Onward to Victory!
when the "Irish," shortly after 
the most powerful eleven in the the third period kick-off. Iinrd 
East. with an uninterrupted up on their own 37-yard stripe string of . triumphs ovc-: such none in the throng anticipated what was then elevens as Svracuse, Yale and other powerful teams: to occur. and Notre Dame, having whipped leading elevens of The signal caled fqr black-l~aircd Christy Flanagan the Middle \Vest and South. has only to vanquish to shoot for the supposed strong point of Army's Southern California. a 'leading Pacific Coast team. 
mighty line-the tackle position fi11ed by the giant to gain general recognition as the greatest football cadet, Bill Sprague. There was the threat of a pass array in tlic land. and the threat of a play on the opposite side of the 
VETERANS-ON ARMY TEAM
line by the clever-acting Notre Dame backfield. and 
Christy had only such help as might come from his Yesterday's game was one in which the master linesmen to carry through his assignment. mind of Knutc K. Rockne. celebrated coach of the "Irish." was matched against the mature cxpcricnc~

For a moment as he reached the line of scrimmage of Army's post-graduate football team-:-a team with
the-e was indication he would go no further, for. while· Sprague had been turned in toward the center. "Light Horse Harry'' \Vilson. late of Penn State: 
"Tinev" Hewitt. late of Pittsburgh: Jack Murrell.
Christy collided with the cadet and seemed about to late o.f Minnesota: Lou Cagle. late of Louisianasprawl to the ground. But his lightning-like limbs Southwestern. and others late of colleges located here.
kept churning and he sort of ricochetted off the big there. or in 'those general vicinities. a majority ofArmy man and on toward the c~det secondary de­whom have h;~d from fouo:-to eight years of collegeI fense section patroled by "Li~hthorse Har-y" \Vilson, 
I football--and the master 111ind won.
who was reinforced by Daly. the cadet center.
i 
The master ~ind won b}' employing tactics which
IRISH JIGSTEPS HELP
! 
many bcievcd foolhardy. for the "Irir.h.'' instead of \Vhether the Flanagan family has taught Christy attempting to sweep the ,end or ilin~,; passes over thei I the intricate steps of the Irish jig is not krown. but · heads of the Cadet eleven; went· punching int<' ;the ! immediately those Army defenders approached him suppose~ly adamant Army line. 
l 
l I 
i· 
l 
I 
li 
. !.! 
I ·•. 
,' 
I r!
·! 
III . I 
I 
~ . 
:j. 
~. { 

Page 36 1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
Army Game Spirit 
A tattoo of cleated feet on the green-sward . . . cheers. . . anxious
I.I 
I, waiting ... victory-a football season. 
Perhaps it will always be that to Notre Dame men football will be con­nected with the annual J\rmy game; and pe1~haps the true idea of spirit will always be couched in terms that have attached themselves to the legands that have grown old around this classic. Not that we do not have our traditions elsewhere or that the spirit, that ·soul of Notre Dame, that loyalty, isn't as prevalent in· our other conflicts; but rather because the memories of that little band of· Fhrhtin~ Irish led by a Swede. that went dmvn and were the mule-skinners proper back in 1913 gave birth to a tradition that is al: ways living. 
This year the splendid response of the student body in giving the team a send-o~f a:nd again in its acclimation of the wonderful victory will remain in the minds of those who sa'\v it until nothing else can be recalled. 
No wonder the Army succumed. It was battling against the weight of two thousand six hundred hearts of two thousand ~.ix hundred men who were willing to visit the basement chapel and the church as well as burn red:-flares; two thousand six hundred men who pledged their loyalty silently out'round the hvin lakes as well as in the noisy acclimation; two thousand six hundred who were a week later willing to greet a team that had fought hard and lost af; wholeheartedly as when they won from the Cadets. Two thousand six hundred who had the spirit! 


I .i 
. i I 
I 


: ..; ~-~ .. 
\ 
'.. ' '· 
1926 .FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 37 
Flanagan's 62 Yard Run Wins for N.D., 7 to 0 
By DAVIS J. \VALSH. Chicago Herald and Examiner. 
NE\V YORK. Nov. 13.-Looking down the barrel of a sixgun, drawing a king full to an ace "kicked" or running a rabbit down to its elbows in a dash for the goal posts:--they make them tough and trigger-nervous down in Texas. But when a 
Texan happens to be a scion of tht: Flanagans and his first name is Christie, the contest ceases there, because there seems to be nothing for it but to con­cede that the gent is a man among men. 
And such he proved to be this afternoon, for with everything else being equal, Notre Dame had a Flanagan of the Texas Flanagans and he ran sixty­

Irish retrieved that 
two yards for a touchdown that beat the Army, 7 to 0. 
The great open spaces 'yere 
calling their own early in the 
VICTORY
third period of this afternoon's Army -Notre Dame football game, and the right half-back 
Army, to Victory, we're marching 
on today,
of the Notre Dame team, being 
a young man by the name of 
Sound you the call For Kaydets all,
Flanagan, who came from Tex­as, was not the one to ignore 
To Form, in battle array. 
the appeal. He· found a great 
Army, our team is set, so Forward
open space between Harbold 
to the fray,
and Sprague, went to meet it as a gentleman born meets an 
We'll never yield, but clear the
obligation and, finding none to 
Field,
say nay, simply did the natural thing and followed the shortest 
And march to victory. 
distance ·between two given points. Lest we fail to make ourselves clear, one of them happened to be the goal line. 

DEFENSIVE GAME 
It was the only score of a game that was to b'av.! pulled the boys out of their shoe laces, but, some-: how, didn't. Both teams came up to the ·game . unbeaten in their respective sections, and they had the megaphone men firmly convinced that nothing 
could stop either of them. Instead. it proved to be a meeting of two teams whose defenses were too much for their attacks. 
Not once did that Army attack, about which the boys 'in the hick room bad become so maudlin, penetrate the Irish .30-yard line. Not once did ~he 
deception and speed that one has come to assoc1atc with Rockne teams carry through a sustained offcn-. sive to the goal line. It seemed, in fact, that nothing could happen · and nothing would, when s·uddenly 
the Army defense began to count its finger nails and 
the boy friend.· Flanagan, was on his way. 
Harbold was bung by the heels as the interference 
swept on, Spragn~ was boxed like a cigar, ·and 
Harding, playing defensive fullback, was dumped 
without ceremony· il$ he gazed with engrossing in­
terest at the oncoming Flanagan. 
From that point. it became a foot race and any gent by thz name of Flanagan who lives in Texas can't afford to be slow. He wasn't. He simply 
;:J:
devoured the yards and at the end, the thing wasn't even close, Wilson being put out of the race on the 1 O·yard line by a Notre Dame hip that picked up a chance acquaintance with Harry's knee caps.· 
The victory sent Notre Dame back to old South Bend with that may prove to be a season's lien on the intersectional championship, and, if they don't ring the town bell over that one, the fact that the 
2 7 'to 0 debacle of last year, will be sufficient to keep the merry villagers in the streets long after 9:45. 
In addition the day was one to inspire the brush of a painter and that goodly crowd of 70,000, lifted beyond the com­monplace by the. spectacle of 1,000 cadets marching as Dnc man and their barking, lilting songs and ·cheers was· there with the expectation of seeing the game of games. 
Rockne worked his usual hocus pocus at the outset, start­ing the game ·with Riley, Nic­mic, Dahman and· O'Boyle in his backfield,· possibly on the theory that the first shall be last and tl)e last shall be first. They arc supposed to be second stringers and, for all of me, 

they proved it when· they got two distinct breaks in the first period and threw both of them over the left ..shoulder, for lu~k or something. 
For i~stancc, \Vilson fumbled the kickoff ·and 
then· carefully stepped o~t of bounds on the. 10-yard line in recovering the ball. That incident did the Army.practically no good, and neither. did Murrell's trick punt that went out of bounds on the 3 3 -yard line .a :moment later. 

ARMY CHECKS .ADVANCE 
Now. was the. time for. all goo·d men to come to the aid of_ the Hoosier but some of. them happened to be on tt?e sidelines and so tb: Army took the ball on downs. It .·then showed a disposition to prove that 
its attack did_n't consist altogether of circumstantial evidence, Murrell tearing the Irish ·line. for re-. pea ted ··ganis .. 
But lie finally thought better of it, and punted to the' 25.:y:ud line. from which poi~t the only )_ . sustained ·march of the game. carried Notre Dame deep i~to Army territory on off-tackle dashe£ by Nicmic and O'Boyle. But it was not to be. 

f~~t"\:;~:;;c-~~-;c~~~·-~·· .:,i:·::z :· . 
7 /;,./ l~ 
~(~,./ 
Page 38 1926 FOOTBALL' REVIEW 
I. 
: :~ 
I' 

....
,, 
,. 
; 

r::­
-' 
f 
-~. ' ! 
_,__ 
v;
\~ -:; 
. ·,: 
-'~ :: __-;._·_ 
~ .
,_: 


~ \ ~· 
Notre Dan1e 21 Drake 0 
Someone presented Rock and his crew with a huge underslung bulldog in rememberance of the way that his boys. took the Army down the line. It was a fine pup; the sort that has the fire of fight in his eyes and the grip of victory in his teeth. It was a f:t:iendly canine, however, and the Fightin' Irish did not have a great amount of trouble bringing it home from the Polo Grounds. 
But such 'Vas not the story a week later when another bull dog in the form of Drake pounced in a playful manner on Cartier Field. A broad expanse of white blanketed turf sometimes referred to as Cartier Field, and 15,000 shiver­ing fans greeted the pup as it marched upon the field to show the Irish that it would not be quite as easy to handle as their new mascot. The game might have been played on skis or snowshoes; at any rate it was about all the Rock­men could do to slide across Drakes goal for three markers. 
The Alumni who had sold the farm to come back for h~mecoming began wondering if o'ld man winter had covered up. the chalked lines so that the Notre Dame rooters would not be conscious of the yardage gained by the Bull­dogs in the second quarter; with lightning like speed the boys from Iowa marched the pill to the Notre Dame five yard line where they made first dmvn. Even the Blue and Gold first stringers could not stop the Drake advance to the three inch line. It was here that Mr. Dope steped in and spoiled Drakes chances for a score. 
Then the tide turned. Using then hands craftily, blocking in a finished manner and sending the ball through the air the Irish carried the ball to the skin across the last white line. This started things rolling and ·wallace and O'Boyle each chalked up another tally. · 
It was a great game. Old man "Tinter was not so over anxious for it to be but the fifteen thousand Irish fans declared that all their shivering was worth while and was amply repaid by seeing the boys from the twin lakes muzzle the Drake Bulldog 21-0. · 




1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 39 
Bull Dogs Slashed by Irish, 21 to 0 
Des Moines Register 
' have it "Old Erin was saved'', and from that time
. CARTIER FIELD, Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 20. 
on the Notre Dame holy of holies was witoout
-(Special) -Irish eyes were smiling here this even­
danger of invasion.
ing but not until the gentlemen from out-where­
Christy Flanagan, the rambling rough-rider from
the-tall-corn-grows had given the Notre Dame mule· 
Texas plains, teamed with O'Boyle and together .__ .::.._::-:_:;..:.._..:
skinners a world of trouble by holding them 7-0 for 
they worked the pigskin to within 5 yards of
three-fourths of ;; game that kept the audience 
glory. Hearden took th.e ball to Drake's one-yard
shivering despite turned-up collars. Drake took its 
strip and then two attempts to catipult O'Boyle
Sweedish massage-Rockne brand-only after it bad 
behind the goal posts failed miserably to advance
demonstrated some 99 and 441100 percent wallop 
the ball. Quarterback Edwards looked things over
that made the activities of some 22 gentlemen in the 
and ordered a shoulder to shoulder charge by the 


In each case O'Boyle added the extra point.
The crowd was given a thrill or two several Simpson and Everett were the main springs,times in the first quarter when it became too openly 
stars. and wHole planetary system of the Iowans
evident that the Iowans had not heard that the home team must always win a homecoming game. A bad game. . punt gave the Missouri Valley's p::-ide a "break" For Notre Dame Mssrs. Flanagan, O'Boyle, Mayer, after 7 minutes of milling about but \Vynne 
McManmon · were the headliners supported by a brilliant cast of Riley, Hearnden, \Vallace, Marelli.
reached his long, dangling arms up into the ozone and company.
and intercepted Cook's pass and proceeded to canter out into the middle of the snowy playground with the same. \VILDCATS SCREECH IN VAIN: 
Later they worked the ball down to. the 15 -yard NOTRE. DAME \VINS. 6-o line and were resting there when time was ·called. 
Mounted high over the heart of Notre Dame. tb~The shock troops th:tt started the fray were replaced golden-garbed ,figure of Our Lady arose to a· newby the regulars but the Blue and· White refused to splendor in the hazy twilight of last Saturday, forbe intimidated by the psychology of the situation. 
the doughtY. gridiron knights who'm she had sen.t Th'!y smashed thru to the one-yard line and the f?rth only a few hours before had paraded to a great Irish fans rose to their feet dazedly to shout ''hold Vl~tory. . 
And the massive stands of· Northwestern Uni­'em". A brace of line bucks failed and Drake was 
versity's new stadium were thrilling to a new tradi­penalized because it seemed that their backfield was tion in t}\e autu.mn dusk of· last Saturday as fromin motion. Then a· pass over the goal line was sent the cleat wprn ftcld strode the Thundering Herd of too near Captain Red Hearnden's rendevous and 
Notre Dame, vtctors by the narrow margin of one like a true Rockne pupil he immediately and effect· to~chdown, 6 to 0, over the plucky Purple ivcly grounded the sa_me. As the novelists wo~ld Wtldcat. 
-~--' .' " 
--~-~~~ 
.·.· 
·center of 19 thousand roaring homecomers the only 
hot thing this frigid afternoon. 
It was an intercepted forward pass and a brace of completed ones that. metamorphosed what 
gave promise of being a close score for the books into a 21-0 
·victory for Rockne's rolicking ramblers. 
You can unwrap the tin-foil, tear off the tissue paper and present the big banquet of the day to Mr. Harry O'Boyle. The 
i. Drake outfit hails from the homestead of the aforemen­tioned gentleman and he kept smashing thru their line to give his best regards to the safety man in a thoroughly O'Boyle 
·manner. Then; too, there was a fleet footed Christy Flanagan who galloped a bit up and dmvn tbe turf and then went b;tck to his stall. 
linemen following 
DR1\KE 
Here's to the man who wears the "D" Makes a good fight for the varsity; Here's to the man who has fought and won Made a good fight as a true Drake son; Here's to the man who's brave and bold Ready to battle as knights of old; 
Like a bull dog the victory, 
Oh, here's to the man who wears the "D'.' 
in their wake closely. They succeeded in pushing the Drake wall back that * of a yard neces_sary and the boys on the scoreboard exercised their arith­~etic as O'Boyle added the 
:-... 
extra point. The third period was a duplicate, replica, .repitition, or what have you of the opening 

stanza. The additional account­ing on part of the scribes came in tqc final period when the Irish counted twice. 
W a 1 1 a c e scored the first when he intercepted Cook's ~1 pass and ran 30 yards for a !: touchdown and O'Boyle was credited with the ·last when ~-. ,. ' Charlie Riley Grover Alex­f 
I . andered one to him from the 21-yard line which he con­verted promptly into 7 points. 


I ... 


1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
Notre Dame 0 Carnegie·_Tech 19 
Iowa, Nebraska and now· Carnegie! Each year it seems to be the fate of the vVonder Teams to run into soine opponent who spills the dope and makes what would have otherwise have been a most remarkable season into a merely great one. It would take more than a defeat such as this to obscure the record .that the Fighting Irish had established before their trip to Pittsburgh where the canny Scotsmen made crushed rock of the Rockmen; and it would take far more than his to dim the glory of that great game that they rose to on the succeeding Saturday. · Notre Dame had a good season and the loss to Carnegie, although it was a pill. without. the sweatene·d coating that proved rather hard to take, was nevertheless administered by a Tech team working feaverishly at the top of their game. As W. F. Fox, Jr., would say: "It happens in the best regulated pigskin families." . Coach Steffin had pointed his worthies for Notre Dame; had primed them for Notre Dame; and he did his work well. . The team that took the field against our Thund~ring Herd was really remarkable. Notre Dame has no alibies; no protests; nothing in fact except praise for the sturdy opponents who topped them. And indeed it should be so. The real test of a man's worth is to observe him when he's beaten; when he's down. It's easy to speak of sportsmanship when you're on top of the heap but rather a different task to put that into practice when the odds are the other way and you're far to the windward of glory. The Carnegie game had its place on the calander of events this year. It proved that the team was not a collection of super-men but was made up of boys, of men, and that the h-uman element could not be overlooked. But most of all it tested the mettle of every _Notre Dame man whoever or wher~ ever he might be and, as has always been the case, the men of Our Lady brought credit to themselves and their Alma Mater under the stress. It proved that Notre Dame is great in defeat, greater indeed than in victory! Here was a true measure. The men adequately proved their worth in the Southern California game. · All due praise to our victors! A g-reat team. -And praise for those who were corageous in defeat. 





Page 41
1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
Skibos Defeat (tUnbeatable" Squad 
By T. ·C. YoULL. Pittsburgh Press. 

Rockne's flaming Notre Dame comet has crashed to the ground, a char:-ed and lifeless ember. 
The luminous star from South Bend swooped low over Pittsburgh yesterday, collided head-on with the football juggernaut of Carnegie Tech and broke and fell as its glitter and sparkle flickered and died away. 
A wild crowd of 45,000 crowded Forbes Field for this astonishing spectacle. And it saw an amaz­ing battle of gridi::on giants of which the hopes of the Irish were shattered into a thousand fragments and the fame of Carnegie's mighty eleven went speed­ing to every corner of the land to the ticking of a hundred telegraph instru­

ments. ''MIRACLE" OCCURS 
CARNEGIE TECH 
Notre Dame was beaten. The Tartans were triumph· 
Fight for the Glory of Carnegie
ant, 19 to 0. 
Fight for the glory of the clan,
The so-called miracle was 
Let your eyes be ever on 
accomplished. It was more than 
Tartan
accomplished. Not::e Dame was 
Bright as the west and 
not beatc.n-but crushed. Crush­
every man,
ed by a quartette of Tartan 
Fight, fight, fight, every
backs that ran with terrible fury 
Skibo, fight
and a powerful Carnegie for­
Till we win the victory!
ward wall that tore the vaunted 
The kiTties are coming, hurray
first defense of the Irish into 
hurray,
tatters. 
The kiltise are coining, they'll win
As the· thousands ·that packed 
to-day,
the stands and bleachers at the 
For tl1r!y're fighting for the glory
Pirate stadium pou~ed their 
of Carneqie.
cheers into the colorful pano­rama beneath. the eleven Tar­
tans played like eleven inspired 'men. There were no stars.· It was just a heavy, smooth machine plunging forward at a dizzy pace 
and sweeping everything from. its path. 
The Irish were not feared. In a steady onslaught after a scoreless fi ·st period the Tartans scored two. touchdowns in the second quarter, two field goals in the third and came within an ace of running over for two inore touchdowns. 
SCORE AGAINST VARSITY 
And at .the end the Tartans were smothhin1 the Nom; Dame varsity-the same cle\·en that b:?at the Army-under a brui!ling, battering onslaught that had the famous South Bend team reeling back dazed and demoralized. · 
All the scoring was made against the Irish varsity. The shock troops played the first· quarter and shortly after the start of the second period, Notre Dame rushed in an entirely new team-the first string boys. They came on the field with a snap and a dash. rubbing thei:-hands and patting each others' backs. Then in a few minutes they were hurt and scowling. fighting "like tigers in the shadows of their own goal posts. · 
For scarcely had the Notre Dame varsity taken the field when tth Tartans unleashed a wild, cyclonic attack that drove the South Benders back-wounding and struggling in hopeless desperation with their backs to the wall. · 
Victory. the one which would crown Carnegie as the conque-:o'r of a champion, was within Steffen's grasp only because his team, one of the most inspired outfits that ever wore cleats, would not be beaten. 
Carnegie, the team which a few years ago had met the "Four Horsemen" of grid fame and scored 21 points, were now scoring almost that many on a 
the united loyal 
team \<those goal line has seldom been crossed and a team, which, on its record, wa~ considered the equal of the one that had brought Notre Dame its g-eatest fame as a proving ground. 
And as the snow swirled about the field. as the athletes became hardly recognizable ex­cept for the great numbers whicH glared from their backs into the enshrouding twilight, Carnegie, with nineteen points. smashed the shrine upon which Notre Dame was about to ascend to receive the adulations of millions of he·o worshippers. 
GREATEST OF ALL 
Great teams have trod Forbes Field, the warriors of Pitt in the good old days of Peck. McLean. Sutherland. Wagner. 
Davies, Bohren and others; gr~at visitors like Jim ThOrpe. Red Flowers. Swanson. Charlie \Vay. Bob Hiv.,.ins. <.nd countless others have clawed up_. miles of mud·-streakin~ to victory in games· oldtime-s like to talk about. But greater teams than the Tartans of yesterday· \vould be hard to imagine; impossible to find, Putting their everything into a struggle where· they were not warranted a chance, -\vorking toqether in a way which would. have made the famed "Three Musketeers'' look like a disco-dant familv. the Plaid rose rn ne\·er hesitating until tbey' had "made certain that what thev sought was theirs. and what 
. they had .no one wrmld take away. . Using only 14 men to ba_tter their way. Carnegie twice swept over for townchdowns. and then. sort of to add his greate~t personal effort to the success of a unified team, ·Harpster. with two; field goals. one from the 41-ya-d ·Jine and the otr.-r from the 3 5 -yard.line. made certain that Notre Dame. unable to vain consistently until th~ey opened the style of attack which had made t.heir great reputation. would need three touchdowns in one period to win when they had failed to make one such score· in three 
p~riods. 
i . 
li. 
~I 
\ 
f 
·r. 
I! 
i 
I 

·..·....... ·: 
·""·-:....."".. 

'·' 
"0-~ 
·') 
'_.::?> 
-:..}< 
..·.J. 
-··~·; 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIII_I"....~~~·-·~~~~-~~,~-:~·:•_;-·:~..·~~·-~_.._.~~~--~-~:·~..~~~....EI~~III!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m;~m=~--·-·~=-~~~:,~~~~~ 

-~ .:·
[~~'~WI~~o52cr~~'f'~'":'~2JI~ ,.,~c. 
-·--·-----· --{_:_ 

/ I 
. . . ! 
z;:~---­
-:;-./ -~­
', _/ \:.."'; 
-t:--". 
'\, 


Page 42 1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
Notre Dame· 13 California 12 
It was little Art Parisien, the minute man of '26, who was the star of stars again after pulling the dark clouds of defeat over that much exploited Southern California sunshine on December fourth.· It was the first time in history that the trick had been pu1led by an Eastern or Mid-Western team and then it came as the climax of the most thrilling game of football that we can find recorded in the books this year. 
Like a page from Frank Meriwell, it came as the shadows from the high stadium walls of Troy were slipping down, phantom like, over the white-sliced playing field. Thei·e was a substitution and wheather or not you believe that Rockne is a magican the fact is he spoke just three words and lo, the Scarlet became mighty blue! · 
The words? \Vhy "Parisien for Riley" and in trotted Parry, the left handed, who specializes in winning games in the fading minutes of play. 
. . 
. He was in just three plays but when he trotted back to the bench the thunder that was sent heavenwards for him was the acclimation accorded-a hero. Just three plays,-but enough to made the score-board tenders exercise their accounting; enough to make us all wild with joy; enough to end a great season for a great team fighting for a great coach and a greater school. 
The teams were as evenly matched as ~my teams could be. Notre Dame outscored the Trojan in the matter of .yards piled up from scrimmage but in that matter of first downs they were each resting with ten when the time was called. Notre Dame had the brainy football; the spirit, and tho Captain Jim Cravath, "Devil May" Kaer, Laranella and . \Villiams outdid themselves that combination was too strong to beat. 


1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 43 
Parisien's Port Sided .. Passes Defeat Trojans, 13-12 
Chicago Herald and Examiner. 
LOS ANGELES. Dec. 4.-0ola-la! of the afternoon. There were other stars, many of ''Petit" Parisien. a fightin' Irishman and a slip 
them, but none who app:.-oached the brillancy of this of a boy weighing less than 150 pounds southpawcd fighting center, who closed his collegiate career today. Notre Dame to a 13 to I 2 football victory over University of Southern California today. IRISH MAKE SIX PASSES 
He flipped two left-handed passes over a bewilder­Notre Dame completed six passes for 11 6 yards.

ed Trojan defense in the closing minutes of as hectic 
Their total yardage was 289 to 230 for U. S. C.
a ·football combat as this vicinity has ever witnessed and turned defeat to victory for Knutc K. Rockne's 
Each team made ten first downs. In the puntin~. proteges. where Notre Dame was expected to have a big edge. Then Parisien went in the Trojans were leading. both Kacr and Elliott held their own, avcragcing 3 7 12 to 7. This was in the closing minutes of play. yards, to 43 ya -ds for Notre Dame. In the return 
This little French-Canadian was 
of punts Notre Dame got no­under orders not to get into the 
where. gaining but 4 ·yards to game because of ailments. But 
45 that Kacr got. Kacr out· the need was there and the man 
gained Flanagan at cveq• ~nglc. was handy, so he replaced Riley. 
The Trojan back made 94 yardsHis first pass was for forty 
in ·thirteen packings. while Flan­
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
yards and into the arms of Nie­agan made 3 0 yards in seven mic who was dra<;tgcd down on attempts.
the Trojan 20-yard line. A line 
Fight on for old S. C., 
Thl' luck went to the Irish. gain. On third down "Petit" thrust. a wide end run and no 
Our men fight on to victorq 
Tldr fi ·st attempt at goal after raced to his left with the ball 
touchdown was low. but the
Our Alma Mater dear looks good
tucked under hls right arm. 
ball sttuck . the back of on:! of 
up to you
Then as the sower reaches for 
their linemen who had been the seed in the basket he plucked 
pushed back and bounded up
Fight on and win for old SC 
the ball,· threw it swiftly to 
and over the goal posts. Drury'sNicmic and the latter raced 
Fight on to victory! Fight on! 
attempt for conversion on the across the Trojan goal. 
second touchdown hit the crosc;­bar. bounded up and then hit
INEXPERT IN DEFENSE th~ bar again in its descent and One can dig up dozens of in­
dropped back into the playing stances where. had things turned 
field. By that whisker did the out differently, the. score might 
Irish ~rab the verdict. have been reversed. The Trojans were neither out· The game itscl f could have been a tic if one would 
played nor were they outfouglit. but they certainly seck to strike a b;tlancc between the potentialities of 
were inexpert in "their dcfcns~ again'>t the bewildering h,..,th SC1 11 :ldcs. P,ut one gets the impression that the attack that Notre D.1mc unloosed through. the air. 
Notre DarP~> offense was smoother-that the attack Until the Trojan campus produces somebody with 
was more diversified and certainly more resourceful. an educated toe these reverses will recur. Failure to 
The deception is monumental and. when cmoloycd kick goals after touchdown gave Stanford a one-point 
against slow-thinkin~ secondary defense men the re­victory and the same failure today brought a like 
sult is bound to be disastrous. defeat. But win or lose those Trojans played good foot­LARANETTA STARS 
bali and lost to an eleven that fought a despe~.ne fight and a smart one. Notre Dame, off in front. There is no "beef" over that sort of spectacle. was overtaken in a game rally by the Trojan band. · I heard nobody yelling "extra bout" when they 
'r'. ?ut they refused to be whipped and had just enough pushed and milled their wav out of the Coliseum. tn reserve to sneak over with the winning margin. But there is quite and ass:stent demand that the Trojans get down to the point of developing their
It was a great. thrilling football spectacle. ·It was 
five-year long weakness-a dependable set of;-n exposition of football at its most fetching possi­
..v kickers.
bility. A bit of"cvcrything was on display and never were teams more evenly matched than these two In passing out the cheers to the men· one cannot who fought it. out to the .last b:ttcr second on the overlook Laranctta's splendid defense. Had it riot fast green turf of the Los Angeles Coliseum before been for him Notre Dame pass receivers twice would 80,000 spectators. ·have scored touchdowns. Laranetta would chase the 
receiver and bring him down.
Outstanding in tint scramble of legs and arms was the figure of one man who played as I have never He and Drury were alert in defense against seen another individual perform. Jeff Cravath, cap­passes. but ·the same cannot be said for Elliot and tain and· center for the Trojans was the luminary Heiser. 

llllll~ll~~~~~~~..~~~~..~~~....aa~a&BIIB~!!~~~~!!~~~~~~~~::~~~~
____.::____....;___....~-~---··-· . ~:;::-.. ·-""r---1--~~7~=.:/~--~_._:.:·:~~;;.:.{~_-.:. :. .. . ­


c._~ ---·,-c· 
-·­
% •
[~(i,z~:z;~~!l:~~-,~:-·.~.~~'EIC"-" 

' { ' 



Page 44 1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
Oh U'ad power the gijtie gie us 
ARMY 
"The Army team were sorry that they had to mar the season with a loss. but were happy, too, that they found their superiors in such a team as Notre Dame. Somehow we felt after that game that we had lost to a bunch of scrapping men-real types­who typified Notre Dame so beautifully/' 
---Cadet Orville M. Hewitt 
NORTHWESTERN 
"For years Notre Dame and Northwestern have fought cleanly· on the football field and both teams. have profited hugely by the fine spirit shown. For three years I have been on Northwestern teams that tried vainly, but sincerely, to defeat the Fighting Irish. I am sorry taht I could not have been on a team that won from Notre Dame but I am not sorry to have played against such true gentlemen." 
---Ralph Baller 
INDIANA 
"\Vhen Indiana came to your school for its game this fall, all of the men on the Indiana team were hoping for victory. After they had played four quarters against your superb team they knew that they played on an inferior team and were deserving of defeat. Still it was no disgrace to lose to a football team w·hich is so aptly called, 'The Fighting Irish'." 
---Franll Sibley 
GEORGIA TECH 
"At Georgia Tech we have a ·very wholesome impression of Notre Dame and hef student body. We think of the two as one, as an inspired unit which gets behind a project and pushes it over. Georgia Tech fell before your famous 'Four Horsemen'; likewise she was a victim of your 1926 team, almost as powerful as your wonder team of 1924. Defeats are stinging but when a s::_1ortsmanlike team inflicts them the pain is considerably lessened." 
---"Red" Barron 
PENN STATE 
"Notre Dame came to State College, P a. a year ago and played a tie with .our team; Penn State went to South Bend this year and lost decisively to Notre Dame. I received the same impression on each occasion.· Your team plays its game cleanly, hard and well and then shuts up. That's an admirable quafity." 
---]olzn Filiak 



Page 45 
To see oursel's as ithers see tts! 
CARNEGIE TECH 
Many times have I seen Notre Dame in victory and as many times have I seen the exemplary winning spirit of your team. Only once have I seen Notre Dame in defeat 
but then that spirit dawned on me more fully for I saw its real depth.  I have only the  
best of sincere  admiration  to  extend  to  you."  
---Lloyd Yoder  

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
-"Out of the middle west came a great team, known to the entire country as Notre Dame's famous Fighting Irish. Unluckily, 'our boys were forced to bow to the smooth football eleven which Rockne developed but in so doing we noticed one outstanding thing-they were pleasingly courteous at all times." 
---jess Cravath 
MINNESOTA 
"Two Notre Dame-Minnesota games have been played in the last two years ·and if . interest in the future grows as rapidly as it has in the past two seasons we may look forward to Notre Dame-Minnesota contests as the best of the west. Notre Dame men are always serious on the field; modest after the battle is over." 
---Roger Wheeler 
DRAKE 
"All the tribute and praise imaginable could be paid to the splendid football elev­ens which represent Notre Dame every year but a world of praise and tribute would be useless if Notre Dame did not go deeper than a mere athletic representative. It's the heart of Notre Dame that counts, the heart that seems to warm toward everyone.'' 
---Paul Frye 
BELOIT 
"When we played Notre Dame this year we were so overwhelmed that we didn't get much of a view of the Fighting Irish except as they rushed past or through us to make tonchdo\vns and roll the score higher and higher. Despite the decisive manner in which Notre Dame overcame Beloit, there was a feeling of courtesy and friendship that endeared us to youi· school and students." 
---Ray Grady 
i. 
! 
! . 


1 i 
: i 
ll,,, 
,·,j 
til· 
tj· 
II I I 
If 

'i 


.·.··~ 
t',) 
.'·:~~ :,_~ i 
-·1 _ .... :{.·": 
·:··-;} ..·/ . 
·.1 :.:': 
~~~~~..~llll............~~~~---~~..~.........._..__.~..&&&&&a&EEaa=a===========_=e__ ._.=,.~=-~--~_::_~--~-~-~·-:-r·~--~-----;-::.·... ·~->/····.:_~~_:_~-'-.-~-~}
·:_;7_..
--llllillliliillliiiai....~..;;:;;:;;;,:;__:,;;.:·.::..:·:~·c:~~::::_:--~~.~::··~\"--'-~:::j. .'[>.~--~~-.:.._.._.:...·~-·~~~··:s··:.~··:-. ,·'J.·-.;..,;;;._~~~~~=;...~~:;·.~-s;__~:~:·.-c . .·. ··.:: ----~·.,.;..;;.:.':'"_::~~£,~"'' 
... -~:,~,~~~-~t­
.... I' · ~~'-~':"\l_'' ~------·· ·----------~--~----,~-----·-~-~ 
Page 46 1926:.FOOTBALL REVIEW 
!'· 
·, 
.' 

HNow About Notre Dame-" 
By W. F. FOX, Special Sports Writer, The Indianapolis News 
I.! If we happened to be an attache in the Army of Sports and our Commanding of­
I ficer told us to go and see if we could find General Football we would head straight for South Bend. Upon arrival there we would search for Knute Rockne and we would· say to Knute Rockne: 
"Are you General Football?" 
And we rather imagine Knute would look about ·him, scan the legions of pigskin . prowlers going to and fro, reflect for a moment on the history that graced the gridi­ron ground of the place and thoughtfully reply, 
"No, but this is the General's camp." 
·X· ·:·:· ·X· 
Of such stuff was the captain of the team of '13; of such stuff is the athletic direc-. tor and head coach of the team of yesterday, of today and of tomorrow-the tomorrow that never becomes yesterday, the tomorrow that is always today. · 
The season of 1926 probably should be labeled, "one if by land and two if by air." At least so it seemed in so far as Notre Dame was concerned when she climbed the highest mountains-Northwestern, .Army and Southern. California. 
~'It took two plays of the Paris~en to Somebody" to defeat North~vestern's greatest team when the Purple played its greatest game. It took just one play, the Flanagan Flier, embellished with all the trimmings of a modern express of the rails, to knock down the ears of the Army's mule and it took one by land and two by air· to put a middle -...vestern cloud ove1~ California's smishine for the first time. 
·X· * ·:<· 
Whenever a mo]e hill actually becomes a mountain a miracle has taken place and being good christians the Notre 'Dame football team and its coach Knute Rockne figured "theirs not to reason why, their's but to do and die"-in the· famous ~vreck -~f Carnegie Tech. Such things happen in the best of regulated football families, the more reason they should happen to the 19·26 Notre Da~e team. 
Had Notre Dame gone through its 1926 campaign those along the sidelines might have sneered. The great Four Horsemen saved them their sins by moving gradually to a national championship. They used their three years to attain it, hence in their senior year their glory was the greater ·and the sneering snuffed out completely. Per­
. haps the junior team of 1926 felt the sameway. If so, watch out in 1927. 
W. F. FOX, JR. 


1926 FOOTBALL REVI£ut Page 47 
Overlooking the Season 
By WARREN BROWN. Chicago Herald and Exm_niuer 
My friend Mr. McNamara has petitioned for a review of the football season. In this yea'r, he has petitioned the wrong sort of a tradesman. The only person competent to review THIS football season, is one of those modern painters, who toss a hand-full of red, two and one. third cans of blue, eight tubes of green, and two fingers of purple in a shaker, mix well, add a fried egg, sun ·:1y side up, and chuck the whole thing against a slab of canvas, thus producing the masterpiece: "The Great Waffle Mystery 
·or Why Didn't Achilles Wear O'Sullivan's Rubber Heels?" 
It ain't doing right by a poor, defenseless sporting writer to ask him to review the 1926 football season. And if the unfortunate guy works out of Chicago, it's that much more intricate. 
My football season began where the world's series left off, or rather drooped in the middle, and the world's series began where the ladies' golf tournament halted for a change of· tires, and the women's golf tournament followed so· closely after the Dempsey-Tunney figth, and both were 20 lady, like that I believe honestly-or is it honestly believe ?-that they were all pai·t of the same act. But why prolong this? I can trace the beginning of my football season right back to last January 1, at Pasa­dena, and, for all I can do to stop it the qarn season inte_nds to keep right on going until next January 1, at Pasadena. This is either a vicious circle, or the plain, old run around. Perahps it's both. 
I hesitate to name a BEST team. At certain stages of the season, teams which have no claim to national championship, appealed greatly to me. 
These teams, curiously enough, did not always win their games. But they sug­gested greatness, nevertheless. 
Washington, for instan<;:e, was defeated by Alabama, ~t Pasadena, on January 1. Yet I hesitate to say that Alabama was quite as good a team as 'Vashington. If "Pop" \Varner's Stanford team doesn't win decisively from Alabama next New ·Year's Day, 
~\than I'll admit error in this judgement. 
Michigan lost a game to Navy this year. But I wouldn't say that Michigan is a team inferior to Navy. Quite the reverse, in fact. 
Mimiesota lost a game to Michigan, 7 to 6, because the rule book still insists that points, and not first downs win football games. I am not quite reckless enough to say that, on that particular day, Michigan was the superior team. It wasn't. It simply had the seven points. · 
Notre Dame's team did very :well in a very difficult shedule. It's victol·ies over Army and Northwestern were splendid· accomplishments. I would hardly class the team with that of 1924, and the Carnegie Tech upset, while perfectly amazing to many, ·didn't cause any more of my hair to fall out, than is normally the case.. I saw a Carnegie Tech team scare the very dickens out o:{ a GREAT Notre Dame team in 1924. vVhy was it unreasonable to suppose that the Skibos, with nothing much else on their mind, should fail .to rise to the heighest against a Notre Dame team of 1926, especially when that Notre Dame team had done about all that it set out to do, ·and more, in my judgment, than it actually figured to do? · 
I don't pick All-American teams I have heard that somebody else is doing it. If I did, my only candidates from this territory would be Boeringer of Notre Dame; Joesting of Minnesota; Friedman and Oosterban of Michigan, and Shively of· Illinois. 
Oh, well, January 1, and Stanford vs. Alabama is not so very -far away. My sesaon ends, then. ·After that, there will be nothing to do until next season. It starts January 2. 



.··-; 
. :f..-~-= 

-;.~~!li··~····---~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~~~~~-~~~-~-!f~-~-~-~r-~~~f::-::~~7:==~==~-----=,_-_-_,~...--::;~-;::;__ -=_~-~-~--!___-r_."-_~__._._j_,:~L:
1 #A,•_----~-~_,_·
~:;;-~-1~~-~-----.>.-.<-'.-~< .'{--t...m-~~C'~~_.>---~{,-=:--~_;i;:~~:·_:,,,-. -~~. --:------:: ,£,,~, 


;i;)··-.: -~~. 
lll,l..
::'
?' // t:=, 
::~~~." . . 
l. 
Page 48 1926 FOOTBA.ii REVIEW 
Are Football Players People? 
By fames E. Armstrong 
There is an idea that Notre Dame football players are a race apart. Super-men. Quiasi-deities of the football world, whose wo_shipers have spread their fame beyond the narrower sphere into. the religious and scholastic worlds. And there the reception is not always with incense and rich gifts. 
For Rockne, Notre Dame players, and the Notre Dame system, have been so long a symbol of the highest type of football and the Milky Way of the constellations that dot the football sky that the unexpected has become the commonplace in Notre Dame's football relations with the world. As long as, and mark this well, as long as the unexpected is on the achieving, the successful, and the sensational side of the ledcer. 
There is a rumor that Rockne picks his prospective backs in their early hich school days. He presents each of them with a live pig. As th~ boy grows up so does the pig and by the time the intended half-back is enrolled in Notre Dame part of the pig has become ham, bacon, etc., and the pigskin has become a football. This football is the one used by the Notre Dame team with which the prospective stat: practic~s and he is so familiar with the ball through pre-mortem association that it is impossible for him to go wrong on ·passes, ·etc. At least this rumor is no wilder than many of its contemporaries. 
The result of these tales of the super-qualities of Notre Dame players makes them seem to the uninitiated to be separated ~rom other men by a line of demarcation as prominent as the Great Wall of China. "Students and athletes"-a difference which the so-called academic delights in emphasizing. "Gentlemen _and members of the football team"-another divergence that is constantly pointed out for no reason at all, because usually the speaker would be outside either. of the classifi­cations he draws so astutely. 
The ·increase in the popularity of football has been nothing short of spectacular and is the­product of a very -rect>!lt period. The result is that hundreds of thousands of those who witness the games today have had n~ direct .contact, even the alumni of colleges and universities, with the type of men who are playing football today. And it is among this "outside crowd" that the myths and the fables run riot. Good or bad, they pass from the man who knows quite a bit to the man who knows but little and when they reach the man who knows nothing but what he is told, it is no wonder that queer stories come back to these who know the facts. · · 
And those who know, those who see the football players every day, know that they aren't any different from the next fellow. They have off-days and on-days. They .have grouches and sick spells. They eat and it wouldn't be terribly surprising, comparing them with the fellows about them, if they might "sleep in". occasionally. · They enjoy a movie or a dance. They are, in short, college boys. And to expect them to perform constantly in the public limelight with the poise of professional entertainers is expecting too .much. The comparison between Babe Ruth, ·for instance, and Christy Flanagan should go no further than to say that each one ·is mighty good in his line. But to expect Flanagan to display Ruth's experience and to act as if he \vere drawing Ruth's salary is out of ·the question. Yet if Christy doesn't happen to run twenty-five yards the first time the ball is handed to him th_e public clamors that he isn't so hot. 
It isn't necessary to eo into the formal discussion of why football nten are human. Charts and statistics have been presented in too many instances to demonstrate that the football. player is as clear a thinker, if not more so, and as good as student as his supposedly more scholastic classmate. 
. At Notre Dame the Four Horsemen are remembered as one of the smoothest looking quartets that ever strolled through Hollywood without a contract. Nor was the 1924 line backward in its haberdashery. South Bend's dances and shows are sprinkled with football players at the proper time, and there isn't a 'symptom of anything superhuman standing out on them. And Notre Dame's church and chapels
~-' 
have more than a proportionate share of football men. That is probably becauEe religion seems most valuable in time of struggle, and certainly football involves struggle. Other articles have· gone into detail on each of these subjects, ably as well as exhaustively. And with what result? 
same old story. The Archangel Rockne has appeared with the Cherubim Line and carefully mixed diet of nectar and ambrosia expects tq place the gold Dame on the flagstaff of the capitol of the football world. And God help them if 

,, 
~-> ££#;.~~--~-l~?~!t~~:~·:·~·Co~~-;i;:~·~.~~· .· --~.'-~~[~~7{ 
r 
1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 49 



-~ 
·;:} 
~:r'
'}. ,: :~ 
:' .. -;~ ' '··' 

~~~~1111~111111111111~11~~~~~~~..~~~~~~~~..~~~~..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~==~~~~~-:'~~-~-~--~-~.:;_~-~i.-.;
·:.;-~. .I~"· :_;,. ,-·: ~:.._ .· ··J'-1-~;•••.~.~.!~.~.:.:.:_-~'':-z;~-"7~:.r-:-{.~·'_:-~--;::-:..~>:' ·. :. . . . -.,, 

,..r-. ·.:~.... -... ~. 
.. . 



:·,~~: .:::.: ::. 1\ ·, 
-·~·-:·~,.-·. ~~;·/'-. : . ~ .. 
'( >/· i;;, 
-,~>/. ' ~­
·_t 
Page 50 1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
The Football Review Rools Its Own 
'Nutlzer Atl-American 
Eleven Greatest Second Selection Broda, Brown .....................Left end .......Shipkey, Stanford vVickhorst, Navy .................Laft tackle ......Sprague, Army Connaughton, Georgetown .........Left guard ......Hess, Ohio State Boeringer, Notre D.ame .............Center........Cravath, Southern California Mayer, Notre Dame.......... ·....Right guard ......Shively, Illinois Joh_nson, Northwestern ............Right tackle ......Lassman, New York U. Hanson, Syracuse ..................Righ~ end .......Oosterbaan, 'Michigan Kaer, Southern California ...........Quarter........Friedman, Michigan Baker, Northwestern ................Left half ...... Flanagan, Notre Dame Wilson, Army....................Right half......Murrell, Army · Joesting, lVIinnesota .. : .............Fullback ........O'Boyle, Notre Dame 
Grantland Rice's Colliers All-American 
Reprinted from Colliers Magazine 
Hanson, Syracuse................. ~ ...Left end Wickhorst, Navy ......................Left tackle Connaughton, Georgetown ..·.......· .....Left guard Boeringer, Notre Dame ................Center Shivley, Illinois ................ ·.......Right guard Smith, Brown ........................Right tackle Oosterbaan, Michigan ..................Right end Friedman, Michigan ...................Quarter Kaer, Southern California.·.............Right half Baker, Northwestern ..................Left half J oesting, Minnesota ...................Fullback 
All~_Opposition Phi Beta Kapp~'s List 
First Selection Pos. Second Selection Born, Army.......................Left end .......Sweet, Carnegie Tech. Sprague, Army,. ..................·Left tackle .....•Yoder, Carnegie Tech. Anderson, Carnegie Tech ..........Left guard ......Schmidt, Army Cravath, Southern California ........Center........Daly, Army Taylor, Southern California........Right guard ......Dart, Northwestern Johnson, Northwestern ............Right tackle ......Filak, Penn. State Wheeler, Minnesota ................Right end ....~ ..Sibley, Indiana Kaer, Southern California ............Quarter........Everett, Drake Baker, Northwestern........ . . . . . .Left half......•Bari·on, Georgia Tech. Wilson, Army ....................Right half......Gustafso!lz Northwestern .Joesting, Minnesota ................Fullback.......•Murrell, Army. 
..-.,....,. 
.... _-··:. --~-.,... -" 

·-~. -_..... , .. ·~--::::. .:~J .__~ 
'\. --_..,"':;­'\ 
··~ . ' '~ . 
'.
'· 
A Laurel Sprig 
Tongues of crimson flame leap against the night sky, forming fantastic creatures of the mind. Blatant notes flow from many horns, filling the air with chaotic melody. ·Myriad voices overdo themselves and, stri.!ngthened by an inspired spirit, peel out one 
grand name, "Notre Dame". 
Some shaggy cousin of the Army mule or mute effigy of a subdued Trojan warrior is paraded about, and song and cheer rin~s out to tell the \Vorld that Notre Dame ha~ conqured again, that the powerful horde whose -power is born of Our Lady and whose inspiration arises in a sequestered clump of year-stained brick watched over by the kind hands of The Mother, has once again risen to its 8Upremacy. 
Flames die down into smoldering fancies and music floats off into silent echoes . and crowds, hoarsened at the exertion, break into tiny groups, soon to disperse. Only the silent night remains and everyone has gone to his rest-except one. 
He's Father ·O'Hara and even the silent nhrht cannot entice him from his duties. On, on, on, he labors, nor does the stilly night detract him if duty calls._ 
. They Sl1eak oft.Pn of Notre n~me ~oirit, these dilletantes, but they, none of them, auite aporoar!h its sacred fire. They brag about it. they connect themselves with it, they try to hbor und~r its embracimr sue 11 hut none of them can comprehend it. ln one man. Notre Dame spirit is lifeblood. It flows throughout his svstem carrvin~ into remote corners of his body and urge of service. That man is Father O'Hara. 

They'll tell you much about the Notre Dame football team. these clilletantes. of its mif.!'hty prowess and its unequalled power. Thev'll tell you much of Cartier Field. and its unstained turf where Notre Dame men have won year in and year out. And they'll try to explain why Notre Dame has ·won. 
\Voros are WP.ak and fall misel':1bly slYort. But actualities move the mind with a laRtinrr nicture. They won't tell you aho·ut ·the Basement Chapel, thP.se dilletantes, and that's whv thev cnn't tell you whv Notre Dnme football teams perch astride this athletic world and bask in the glory that a modern Azor deserves. 
Not.re n~me wins her victories in the Basement Chapel. Down in .the worn alcove of worshin. they n1·ay and intercede, not that their team will win but that it may fight like real Notre Dame men-and win if God so wills. 
And wit.h them prays a sinsrle man, prematurely old, it seems, but grizzled with the rrray of service. On, on, on he. prays and labors that the spirit which is Our Lady'3 will insoire the men that are Our Lady's and bring closer to them the ideal_. that· is 
·Notre Dame's. . 
Cleated feet and horny hands and. pacl ded bodies fisrht for Notre Dame on Cartier Field and P.ke out the fruits of victory. Tired feet and willinl!' hands and a black­u-arbed boov beseech Our Lady and Her Son that Notre Dame might live on her glor­ious tradition. . 
The flame flares up to die, the music peals out to drift away, the crowd -collects to weaken. Maudlin, they are, and fickle. 
The night is silent now and the sequestered clump is dark. But what is that light in a Sorin· tower! It must be that the' man who _lives there is working yet, work­ing, on, on, on. It must be that Father O'Hara will ever work and pray and labor for that sacred ideal--Notre Dame and her men. · 
F. E. D. 
I I. 
~~~~~~~-=z?~~~~~\····.·-,; 
---~ {_ 

:'·~:.·,;:-. ,' ~:~;~~ ' ~" ;. 'l' ,/_;,.r :.~ 
~~:/~ 
. ; 
Page 52 1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

What are the chances-? Deczde for.yottrse(f! 
Whether ateam comes through a season with a perfect record, a ·mediocre one or one that is starkly disastrous, the · hue and cry its adheren'e ts · can· be summed in four wo.rds: 
'Vhat are the chances? 
They always look forward, these fo'otball-mad enthusiasts, to the season that's jnst beyond the hill and to every last one of them, they can see a. team of. destiny lying in the shadow, waiting to spring up and conquer ·the world. 
.Som'etimes th~ir pr-edictions are carried out and a great eleven is in the making. .Again, they might be \Vrong and more disaster is in prospect. After all football teams are human. 'Vhat are the chances? 
Even though they had the thrill of. suppo_rtin~. the wPstern chapions -this year, Notre Dame· enthu­sillsts are looking forward to a bigger tid-bit of the gridiron. another national title. Have they a chance to .realise their aim? C.onsider the men that are. graduating and the ones that .will be back 
in the game again. Then make your own conclusions. _ 
With half th~ line back, an All-America!~ center gone. n crack backfield departing and a fine backfield ready to play another season, whether he dime falls heads or tails determines Notre Dame's chances of pulling through to an i_mpressive re.cord. 
__ ;.· 
"Bud" Boeringer, center of. centers, unanimous. choice of all experts for· All-American honors, graduates in June._ That's a bad break to begin with. But Fredericks and Moynihan. capable substi­tutes, with McCarthy and Plummer, also a good men, should fill in well at that berth. 
Guards? There's much hope there. Smith an•l Lepllil!' and· Law have workecl at the guarcl posi­
tion often and hnve their share of experience..Locke,. Br;wn and Jones, with se~sonin'e-; will be a trio of guards hard to b~at. · . · · 
Tackles? It will be hard to .beat the lot that are h"c'k. 1\Iiller and Poliskev. hnth mnnl'lgram men. nrc rn~ed among the best. Ransavage, Noon, ConnPlly. Smietnnka. Doarn nncl f.ltPin .. hcking in exper~ence only, are a beefy delegation and should make things interesting for some sets of br~cks. 
Ends? Maxwell and Wallace are ·-leaving and that is to be regretted. But Vneclisch. Walsh· and Tom Byrne are back. That. i~ cause for rejoicing. Ed. Collins and Hack Winberry, the latter handi­capped by injuries during the past season, have another year of football. Likewise Vezie, Colerick and Duperior, !!!.!.._ Sophomores, will have the advantage of a year's development. . 
So much ·for the line. The entire left flank of the ,vall is back and no small amount of e~­p~rienced linemen are available for the portside of the outer guard.. "Things· don't look so ·bad there", you will say. _And you're just about right.
·•
{, 
Coming, then, to the backfield, as all good football fans do, sooner or later, you polish your thoughts and sharpen your tongue because you'll want to talk now. 
To begin with, th'e Parisien-Niemic combination is -avaiiabl~ agai~.' Ch-risty Flaringm1, ·who didn't ~:..' play enou~:h to warrant Mr. Eckersall's consideration but who ·was quite conspicuous when he ·did play,(. will be running wild for another year. And at the other half Champ Chevigney will be ·chewing his 
bit, lest there isn't enough action. Then Austin Downes looks like the corner. 
Ray~ Elder, Montroy, Hogan, and ·nunclovic, all possesed of sp.eed a'nd daring arc due for some action at the halfback ·post's. · · · 
. With "Red" ·smith, Fred-die· Collins and· Jack -1\I,Grath .to in.. the f~llback n~sigririi(mts the~e is little cause for extreme worry. Byrne and Qualters can hit the line with no small degree. of power. 
All these, men .with at lea~t a year's .csperiience on a varsity. srpl'ld, are .ready to· make Notre 
Dame's 1927 eleven one to be thought of with the_ best. of teams. . Hall and Freshman football will 
offer a delegation o~ g~ic~ders who could take care of th~msclvcs ..o~ .almost any football field. 
"What a~e the chances?" you'll ask. again. 
Good men in prospect for every position. That makes you perk up satisfied. And then you think of the schedule. ·Only. eight games next. year! That ought to be an advantage, hadn't it? Not so much wear and tear and danger of going stale because of the long season. 
Don't let the schedule raise up ·any chimeras in your brain! Those eight games are ones to be reckoned ·with: When you meet Indiana, Minnesota, Navy, Southern California and the "Army in the space of two months,. seven weeks to be exact, you' rc biting off a hu["e hunk. And that's what this 1!?27 Fjghting Irish squad will be asked to do. 
What are the chances? 
There is plenty of hope but don't be inhuman. There's plenty of work, too. 


~ ·-~~;_ 
;-~ 
II ; ,, ~ 
I~ 

1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 53 

-.;(j




~..... ' . 
~~­
... 
! "!. 
;,.. , 

... . ..
~
·:;< 
.:; . 
.·z 
.,. 
·. -~;:: ·: .:' 
~~~~~~..........~....~~~~~~~~~~~~~==~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~~~----~_:,_~;r~~__fx:r_~-·~-"
• --~,-.:.;1;...,'":-----.:c.-;-.---~--:... --t'--':::-~'=--->-~----:---:~~-~-" ­

r·
' . 

Page 54 1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

Cheerleaders 
I 
i 
It's an established fact that colleg-iate football is more· than eleven brawny z·individuals, trained well and possessed of speed and strength. 
~ : 
In these (fays it is almost an industry, this college foqtball business and its makeup ·1~ just as intricate as an industrial unit. 
Coaches, mana~ers, howling alumni, sports ,\rriters and cheering sections are part of the industry. Special emphasis on that cheering section part of it. That's what we're going to talk about. 
Cheering sections are bigger cogs than most admit. It's ·spirit that makes a football team great and surely ·nO small amount of spirit emanates from the cheering section. Much as they are panned by "columnists" and jingle-potes, cheering sections are vital. 
Without leaders a cheering section would be an unhappy lot of people. So you see that these cheerleaders have .a big part to play-so big,. in fact, that it takes a corps of them to run things smoothly. 
Notre Dame has been fortunate in having a set of cheerleaders who do their work faithfully .and well. Notre Dame's cheering section was as good as the best and its glory reflects in no mean way the ability of Bernie Abbrott, "Pep" Mannix, "Zip" Salmon, and "Red" Leech: 
Abbrott has led yells for three years. Mannix and Salmon com­pleted their second year of service while Leech was a newcomer to the squad. 
_.:.2._,;... _.-,..___. -·_-•...• .....__ ... 
926 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 55 · 
Stud.ent Managers 

Toiling, toiling, toiling, long before the crowds sweep into the stadium and then laboring long after the dark shadows have crept down from the peaks of the walls is the life of the student manager. He must be content to give his best for the University and then go his way sans the publicity, sans the glory or the glamour of the man who skirts the ends, hits back inside tackle and 
pounds  avay  at  glory.  But  the  work  must  be  done  well.  The  happiness  of  the  vast  crow'ds  often  
depends  upon  a  students  manager's genious  for  
detail.  Only  one  who  has made  a  trip with  the  
teams  and watched  a  manager at work will  come  
to  realize  the  real  importance  of these  men.  
This  year,  quite  in  keeping  with  the  dual  
captaincy perhaps,  Notre  Dame  had  two  senior  
student  managers  in  charge  of  football  and  in  
retrospection  it would  seem  that  each  was  just  
about  twice  as  good  as  could  be  expected.  The  
two  seniors  were  James  Coleman  of  Orange,  
New  York,  and  William  Kavanaugh  of  Dayton,  
Ohio. To these men fell the duty of for the team while it was away from  providing the home  james Colema11  

lot. Such matters as Hotel Reservations, food transportation and n million and one little details it was their task to anticipate and take care of. Their record in filling the bill was remarkable. 
Their work called for marked ability and dependability along with inginuity and precision in execution of tasks. "When Coleman and Kavanaugh stepped into the_ job this fall they were facing a mighty big assignment, Notre Dame travelled mot·e miles this year than any other team in this tax ridden universe of ours and that meant work for these two. Beside this the home <htcs brought their problems and thP. skillful manner in which the crowds were -handled and the field kept has elicited praise many. Then too, they were stepping to the office which in previous years had been held by men who were reputed to have been great in this line of work. But the two men buckled down and to-day there are none who can conscientiously deny them the credit that is ccrtainally theirs. 
-Just take a minute off now and look back at whatever contact you have had with the managerial corps . this season. Perhaps you were unaware that you had had any. Most likely the latter is the case you think. If this be true, then you will re:1lize the efficiency with which they have S·:>lved your problems this fall. Had you ran into trouble in finding you proper place at the games or had any of many other little details turned out in any but the right way you would have been concious that these men had been slipping up. On the oth3r hand if you have come in contact with either of .these managers in a business manner we are sure that you will agree that they knew their business. 
The managerial corps is an honor system. In the first of each year a call· for candidates is sent forth and the freshmen that answer are given cer~ain tasks to perform. These men arc gone over and .weeded down until by the end of the year only those showing marked ability along this line of work arc retained. In the sopholnore year the men are eliminated. In the junior year the manager is given responsibility and throughout his whole third year is under constant servailance. Then· in the June of that year comes the big night. This is the annual banquet given by the Athletic Associa­tion for these trusted workers. It is at this time that the f!lanagers for the varsity teams of the senior year are announced and it is a time of susp.ense for all. From this you can roughly gather the idea of how the varsity managers are selected and why it is a distinct honor to be a member of this efficient body of workers. 
This year special commendation must be given the men who worked under l\Ianagers Kavanaugh and Coleman for the fine spirit that they have sh wn as well as for their efficient co.ordination. August Grams, Ed Burke, John Igoc, Ed Cu~ningham and Bernard Zipperer were the junior managers who carried on directly under the leadership of these two and who are deserving of a great deal of credit. Bertrand, Hennessey, Wilbour, Schoppneau, Ryan, Hinkel and l\[c D~vitt were the sophomores selected for various tasks. 
FOOTBALL MANAGERIAL PERSONELL 
SENIOR VARSITY MANAGERS: jUNIORS August Grams ]olzn lgoe 
fames Coleman ami H'illiam Kavanaugh 
Edward B. Burlle Bernard Zipperer Edward Cumzinglzam 
•., SOPHOMORES FRESHMAN Carey Hellrzmg McGraw
Bertrand Hemzcssct Rymz 
Conroy Horton O'Mara Wilbour Sc/wppner Hinkel Duffy Kegowicz Quimz 
Findley Ken11edy Slzamzou McDevitt Slz elds 
·-·· ,--.--·_. .:r~.-­

!~~~;~~:~??~~~~~~~~:~~~,:~_-_-~: -~·~:-,~:::r·· __ 

Page 56 1926 'FOOTBALL REVIEW 

I j i 
·.! 
"i 
'I 
i. 
I ~ 1 
.: II 
... --: 'II 
.-,. .\. '. r~~ 
. l 
., 
··-.·.. (, !• 
Players Think Football 
By LAWRENCE PERRY 
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn.. Oct. 12.-Notre Dame this season is likely to have one of the greatest elevens in the history of the South Bend institution-unless all signs as revealed in Saturday's game between Knute Rockne's men and Minnesota are misleading 
In the backfield there will probably be not only four horsemen, but half a dozen viz: Edwards, Flanagan, Niemic, Dahman, Rearden and Parisien. And the line, even ·with that fine tackle, Boland, out for the s~ ason with a brokEn leg, should develop into the greatest set of forwards that ever played for Notre Dame. 
The Rox are already starting out to do what they did so signally in 1924-they are advancing the ball with a minimum of personal contact in the.line. By this the writer means that the oppof?ing linemen are being drawn apa1·t by deception rather ~han~ by sheer brute 'force. 
DECEP'l'IO:N' IN .~ TTACK 
The quarterback, standing perhaps a bit closer to the line than in the past, alter­nates handling the ball with the direct pass from the center to the runner. The field general does a lot of thimble rigging when the ball comes through him. He spins and delays and pulls fancy stuff in concealing the precise· destination of the pigskin. 
And so· more often than not the Minnesota tackles and the defensive fullback found themselves -sliding to meet the backfield shift only to find in the end that the ball had not followed the shift. The resu It was yawning holes b the line and groping backfield men who 'vere fair game for the Notre Dame linemen who came through to take them out. 
Successfully to meet the South Bend attack the tacklers must play their positions with rare discretion, must not be too quick to get thorugh into the backfield, and if they ever lose touch with their ends, it is goodnight. ~rhe writer thinks that Fred Dawson, when he was at Nebraska, was the one coach who ever has proved himself capable of adjusting his line defense to Rockne's methods of offense. 
ROX DEFENSIVELY STRONG 
Defensively Notre Dame is just as inspiring as on attack. The men play a stand­up, look-it-over defense and then charge into the play with unerring judgment. They met the Minnesota shift not. by sliding but by_ stepping into it, and the manner i:r: which they checked the Gophers' rugged and versatile attack was highly creditable. 
Minnesota. unquestionable has an up and coming eleven. It is a big outfit and the backs are fast and heavy. In the first half the Minnesota-Notre Dame game 'vas as fine an exhibition of football as one could have wished to see even well along in the season. Honors in the way of consecutive ground gaining, in fact, went to the Gophers. 
Notre Dame seemed taken back by two serious injuries that occurred in the first few plays of the game, Boland's broken leg and Collins' broken jaw. · In the second half, though, came that wonderful flowing rhythm, that deftness of foot, that perfect b.ody control which are hallmarks of the Rockne idea at its best. 
R'OCKNE HANDLES MEN 
And does there anywhere exist a brand of psychology superior to Rockne's? Be­tween halves when the score was 7 to 7 and the issue in the air, Rockne came into the dressing room, looked at his _men a minute and then spoke just 38 words. · 
"Boys," he said, "there are two of your teammates lying in the hospital now, 
seriously injured.  All they have took forward  to  now  is the  score  at the end of thi:;  
game.  What are you going to give them?"  
He turned and walked  out.  The final  score  was  20  to  7.  
and that  was  incomplete .  



~~' -e:;;@'i"",:·:_ '~I?:?'f:"'=:> :~~L -~~-< ~} -...._, . _,.,, -'V :§5;--<::.· 
' . 

\ 
'> 
'.
'· 
1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 57 
r 
1. 
~ 
'" 


).· ...:: 
: . . ..: :~·.r:· '"·.' 
~~~~--..----~~~~~--~~~~--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~---~~-~~_£_-~11 ___
___j_y~~-:
M ::;~ ~J---..<L -~::::j~""·-:~~~r-<· ._. _.:.~._;'-.·'I'-:~~~~-'-::~>......--..?.,.:··-·:~~;.-.. ;_:>._., --------_,,,, 


/ ....

{ 
Page 58 1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW 
Great· Write-Ups of 1926 
By GRANTLAND RICE 


··.. 
.•••• 
~·;~ 
_I 
·­
I 
NE:w York Herald Tribze11e 
NEW YORK, Nov. 13.-There was only one lone Horseman riding against the skyline of fame when Notre Dame met the Army in their annual classic at the Yankee stadium this afternoon, but this time one Horseman was enough. 
His name was Flanagan-Chris Flanagan of Notre Damo--n big gangling, hard running half­back with the speed of the wind that sweeps the prairies of the west. It wa~ Flanagan, the South Bend sirocco who ran 63 yards for a touchdown in the third quarter to beat the Army 7 to 0 in one of the finest football wars any crowd of 70,000 ever saw. It was the margin of this single slashing, whirlwind gallop down the field that the· Blue and Gold of the west found itself above the Gray, Gold and Black of the Army as night came down upon two of the most evenly matched teams that ever met. 
Teams Well Matched 
Outside of this one bewildered dash each team made seven first downs and the Army rushed the ball lGO yards against '163. for Notre· Dame as the deadly tackling and the charging defense of both teams broke up play after play. 
But that run was all that Notre Dame needed to take her old place in the procession just a stride in front of the Army march. Through the first two periods neither team had been able to make any headway although the· Army .had a slight advantage ~hrough the uncanny accuracy of Murrell's kicking in the general direction of the out of bounds zone. 
Through these two opening periods the Army had picked up fo~r first downs against three for the unbeaten invaders of the west and the Army had hammered her way for a net gain of 101 yards a.gainst 104 fqr Notre Dame. 
Third Quarter Vital 
Still unbeaten for the year, still neck · and neck, they entered the third quarte·r as the big crowd of 70,000 waited either for the expected draw or the break of the contest that might swing the winning tide in either direction. There was no hint in which direction this tide might go. There had been no margin that any eye could detect as the two. hard fighting lines charged. in upon the rival defense to spill one thrust after another. 
This battle was all along the ground, man to man and body to body, savage-and clean, fought with unremitting fierceness minus any show of rancor. Both teams had shown magnificient spirit and the ablest of coaching as they swayed back and ·forth between the two 20-yard lines, 
unable to put on any consistent advance against 
charging that came in swiftly and tackling that 
a~most never missed. 
It was early in the third quarter ·that the silhouette· of the lone horseman was seen against the skyline, now half. hidden in the shadows where the sun had set back of the towering stadium wall. 
Flanag~n Cuts In 
The 70,000 banked around the field peered down again to the pit as. the· army kicked off to start the third quarter and the brilliant O'Boyle came charging back to his own 33-yurd line before· he was thrown U,!>on his neck. The next play O'Boyle hit the line for four yards, and the simoon. struck. The ball was pusse·d to Flanagan and the lone horseman started at killing speed for the Army's left flank. He came in a straight diagonal line until he was within two strides of the Army end and then without slackening his. pace by a breath he suddenly whirled and cut in towards 
tackle. A streak headed.  He of  was by the· army line raw lightning who was  in not  a  flash. to be  
Tlzc Indianapolis News  

Gene Edwards, Hurry O'Boyle, Christy Flana­gan, Tom Rearden. These boys are the Do, Re, Me, Fa of Rockne's back field at Notre Dame this year. The So, La, Si, Do are Parisien. Niemic, Dahman and Wynne. the eight being Mr. Rockne's idea of a football quartet. 
· Trying to go up and down the Army scale was their job Saturday afternoon and judging from Army's game accounts this year these quartets were expected to hit some rough notes. · 
These boys arc the 1926 echo of Stuhldreher, Miller, Crowley and Layden, the original gridiron Four Horsemen. The Army may or may not believe in eches-last year it did not. 
Edwards comes from Kiski, where Stuhlie came from. Wynne is just a younger brother of the full who used to be; Flanagan and Heurden are merely answers to the charge Fighting Irish. 
SOUTH BEND, I~d., Nov. 10.-The skies hero were red this evening with the blaze of 2,500 red flares as the student body of Notre Dame met in the great al!nual "pep session" prior to the players' leaving for the Army game in New York 
Saturday. There was more "pep and zip" shown in this monster celebration held in the midst of a snowstorm than can be recalled to the minds of-most of the older students. 


By CLAUDE NEWMAN 
Los Angeles Times 
Realising a dcad.ly effective eleventh hour for-' ward passing attack, the "Twenty l\[ules" of Notre Dame ran the "Thundering Herd" of the University of Southern California into the sod of the Los Angeles Coliseum yesterday afternoon, 13 to 12, in the most spectacular game of the year. 
"Shock troops,". famed the length and breadth of the land, won for Knute Rockne. 
Art Parisien, substitute quarter, and Johnny Niernic, half, routed the forces of Troy just three minutes before the final gun. by completing two long passes which sent the "mules" thundering half the length of thP. field to a touchdown. 
It was· Parisien who unleashed passes to defeat . Northwestern, 6 to 0, in the final period early in the season and it was Parisien who yesterday 
· heaved ·the two !Jasses which won the game. 
The first was a magnificent southpaw heave of 35 yards to Nicmic, which placed the ball on the U. S. C. 21-yard line. 
Passing Attack . 
Cutting back swiftly .toward his goal line again in the same sort of a play, on thi'rd dr.wn, Paris­ien shot another beautiful pass to Nicmic,. who caught it on the dead run and loped across the Trojan goal line lugging the leather and the six 
:points needed· to bring .the Irish. up from the rear into the van.tagc po~ition~ . The placement. attempt was blocked-but Notre Dame had won the ball game. 
Parisien showed remarkable accuracy in throw­ing the leath~r. The two passes ·he made were the only ones but they were deadly accurate and shot to the receiver, low and straight. · 
For a time it seemed that Don Dilliams, .sub­.stitute quarter, would come through as the hero in a U. S. C. victory. As it was, he was the hero in defeat-the man who made it necessary' ·for the Irish to put on their spectacular finish.· Going into the game in the third quarter when 1\lorton Kaer, ball packing ace of the Trojans was forced to give up because of injuries, Wil­liams performed with brilliancy and time after 
time. we'nt .. ste'ariling ·. througl~ the tackles .foi; . twisting runs· of six, eight, 10, 12, 15 and some­times 20 yards. 
' U. S. C. Chance 
The U.S. C. chance.carne near.the end of third 
period when a Notre Dame· punt was partially hlocked. and recovered on . the · Trojan 42-yard line. With Williams d~ing· ·the packing twice, . 
U. s:· C; carried.·the. ball to the Notre Dame 43-· .vnd ·line as the period ended." Williams jaunted to the 34-yard line on the first down when he cut through a wide center hole opcticd by Jeff Cravath and Brice T3ylor. ·He then made it a first down on the 30-yard .line · 
and continuing. his charging through the line. ran the ball to the '11:-yard line. He then hit 'right. 
tackle for two yards•' On :a· record·' 'down 'lie-YVns· ._.:·.".'.Cause~_: as .:tiiey ·say~· "It: sounds ·'fike·· 'Ro.ck.' ,., : . .·.. 
1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 59 
held for no gain. Then he rambled off right 
tackle to a touchdown and Drury missed the 
placement try for goal, the point which would 
have the tied the Irish. 
A "break" really decided the game when Notre Dame scored the first touchdown of the g:awe. 
After a see-saw first quarter, Rockne inserted his "Three Horsemen," Christy Flanagan, Torn Rearden and Harry O'Boyle, shortly after the beginning of the second period. Flanagan passed to Riley, placing the ball in midfield, and then O'Boyle knifted through tackle, dodged to the right and went dashing down· the field 25 yards to the U. S. C. 16-yard line. 
O'Boyle had virtually a clear field on this jaunt but was pulled down from behind by Kaer, who grabbed at the flying Irishman's shoulder pads and held on like murder. O'Boyle was thrown out of bounds by Kaer. 
Place Kick 'Break' 
On the· first down Riley circled left end for a touchdown. He ran behind a perfect screen of interference-interferers who blocked per­fectly. Riley wasn't touched by a tackler until he had raced over the goal line, so perfect \vas the interference. 
Chicago Herald and Examiner 
SOUTH BEND Ind., Dec. 5.-Thcrc arc several ways of winning a football game, but probabiy only one of doing the impossible. 
When Knutc K. Rockne herded· his "Fighting 
Irish" aboard the train here l\londay for Los 
Angeles many .critics put up their hands nne 
agreed that the Notre Dame boys didn't. have a 
ch~ncc; To win was impossible:·.-,--:;::.~·-· ·· · 
Saturday they met the University of Southern 
California and 13 to 12 score is evidence that they 
turned the trick. Probably the following story 
that leaked back from the special train ridden . by the Rockmen tells the secret. It "seems that when the· beaten Irish returned from Pittsburgh last week they expected their coach to tear his hair. literally, that is.. becaUl'\e "Rock" is bald. He fooled 'em. He met the train with a smile. He had not a word to say to them conce~ning the defeat. They 
did some .thinking. They knew it hurt the grand old man more than it did them. But he said nothing. 
When they. got ready to turn in 1\Ionday even­
ing on the· Pullman they did some more thinking, 
for ·in each· man's traveling bag was a Carnegie 
Tee program. . 
The only way to do .the impossible? Why, by 
psychology, it seems. . 
Whatever may be the truth of the tale,· it;s 
going the rounds on the Notre Dame campus, 
.where Irish eyes..are ·smiling. And whether you 
·do or not, these. students _believe it, .fiijnly,_ ?-':­


' ~-~~~~­
...;, 

Page 60 1926 FOOTBALL REVIEW 

FRESHMAN FOOTBALL 
Thousands of Irish eyes are smiling, th.ousands of f;ms arc thrilled, and thousands _f,'----­look back with .pride upon the way that the ghosts of the four horsemen galloped with destructing array. Seventy-five thou sand saw Rock's 1926 machine function with perfect cynchronism to take the Cadets down the line; eighty tho1;1sand saw the same crew annex the scalp of ·caJifornia in a final plunge with only three minutes to play; and forty-three thousand witnessed the boys with the silk pants beat North~ western by alone touchdown. It was a glorious season. But· there is a hidden story behind the splendor of it all; a tale the signifence of which few of the thousands who followed the team this season realize. It is just this. vVires clicked for hours, cameras· shot picture after picture, and presses rolled out page after page; all a monument to the team, Rockne's varsity. They did a good job of it. Yes! But they should have told you that behind all this, unheaded to the sporting world, was a group of pigskin wrestlers who lept their relentless efforts to help put the varsity on top; .they were the Freshmen. 
Night after night, the green jersied lads· bucked .up against men of greater age and experience and gave them a good game of it. They were the teams mythical foe. It was the Frosh who first executed the plays of the Cadets, Northwestern, and Cali­fornia in order to give the boys who would represent .Notre Dame an idea of just . what they would be up against. And they did it well. That was their game and that was all the farther· that their praise was laureled. Unlike previous years the Frosh did not play inter-collegiate games with teams in their own class~ They held ·up their morale, their COUl~age, in spite of this fact and_were OUt every night to .contribute their bit. Few knew just these facts and little was the·. praise that the Frosh rightfully des.erve. Like the unknown heroes of fie tion, they are; unknown to many but deserv­ing a world of congratulations and glory. 
vVe we're looking at a few back copies of the Review a day or two ago, and a strik­ing fact was brought home to us by a few of the pictures. On one· of the pag~s, hidden a~ongst the. crowd, were the Four Horsemen as Freshmen. Li~tle was it real­ized that that crew, all Freshman, who had helped model the team of that year, would reveai four men. the Four Horsemen, known in fiction as Pestilence, Conquest, War and Death but in real life as Crowley, Layden, Miller. and Stuhldreher. Perhaps this r year's Freshman squad might hold four men or more . of equal calibre. Who knows? vVe ·confess that we do not; but we do know that from all accounts the team has a wealth of material in passers, punters and tacklers; that they gave their all for Notre Dame. One means. of compensation·is the monument that the success of the varsity has built to them; another-is the. numerals that the .fourty of them will receive. The team was coached by Stanley arid· J: Vignos .who dese1•ve a grea·t ·amount of praise .tor· the calibre of their work. The_ follow in'g men are the ones so deservi~g .of men­tion: Add none of men who received numerals get theni in Rock's offer. 
t: 
I. 
,: 


. l, ; .. --·"· .. ·~ 
926 FOOTBALL REVIEW Page 61 

"I Went to Notre Dame-" 
By FRANK WALLACE. New York Evening Post 
It is a pleasure to be back in the Football Review which is an important item in yearly sport literature because it chronicles most consistently good. That is my idea and yours, of course; but it is also the opinion of that mythical and very real person, the football fan. 
Regardless of Iowa, Nebraska, Army or Carnegie Tech-the quartet which have been permitted to demonstrate. that Notre Dame is human as well as marvellous-people recognize the position of Notre Dame. . 
Rockne is the coach of the coaches. His boys are the brighest of students. Notre Dame is synonymous with all that is smart, effective and delightful on the gridiron. ·When Notre Dame loses it is news-big news-something td be discussed and won­dered about over the countryside wherever men gather by the radio or the printed page. 
We came up from the South. once after beating Georgia Tech. A priest in Nash­ville said·.that the Notre Dame victory had done more good than any mission ever held below the Mason-Dixon line. 
When·-Notre Dame played the Ar.my it was the big sporting event of the day. It was the second biggest event of the past football season. It was more important than the Harward-Yale game and it actually outshone the Yale-Princeton contest which was held on the same day. · 
More wires were utilized to report the Army-Notre Dame game this year than any other battle except the Army-Navy classic. There was more· agitation over tickets than over ·the Big Three contests. 
·One more subtle but convincing proof that the Army-Notre Dame engagement was the biggest thing in Eastern football this year. The premier sporting writers go to the biggest game of the week..:.._the game which outweighs others is scientific and colorful appeal. 
Grantland Rice, probably the successor to Walter Camp and the football writer with the largest following, led his band of experts to the Yankee Stadium on November ·13. The second-stringers went to Princeton fm: the Yale contest. It is probable that the same thing would have happened had Harward and Yale played on thb same day as the Irish and Cadets. . 
Your Notre Dame and mine is mi'e of the few organizations which is big stuff in this town that swallows celebrities in its hungry maw. When New York stops to look · at a visitor he is unusual.· It always stops to look at Notre Dame because Notre 
Dame never disappoints. New York stops to look and it waits to marvel. . ·Think just what that means to those of us who have left that pleasant green cam­
pus to come to this cold land to look for gold. "I went to Notre Dame" you say. "Oh, yes1"-. Soon they want to know about Rockne and the team and how. they do it. On Thanksgiving Eve I addressed ·a gathering of good fellows from Syracuse 
University at a smoker. ·<· "I went to Notre Dame-" 
I was interrupted by sound and heart-warming applause. ~ There was a tribute to warm your soul. These people were letting loose in no· feeble way the admiration they had. for Rockne and his boys·and the school. · 
Things like that happen to the Notre D arne man in New York all through 'the year. 
· It makes you glad ·and happy and proud and thankful to those boys and the coach who have made the world beat a path to the door of our brave little school out where Nature still slumbers. 
I went back to-school last Fall with Babe Ruth and the Yankees. Two newspaper­men -from New York came along. They were interested in the school. We met Father Lange. His greeting was : · 
"Who is going to win the fight?" (Dempsey-Tunney). 
They sat the head table, met Father Walsh, Father Schumacker, Father Nieuland and others. They came away amazed at the fellowship and the regulm;ity .of the plac~ They had been to other colleges in our effete East. 


. 
.. 
.~. -.;<~ 
-.· .., 
·_J#I .-~ 
.J •....• 
?J· :_;i 
. --.-;-_-;--;.__---·. ·:~~:_:.~,--~-=-~~--~A~~-::~-~----::~---~~><~·l7)J
. ~. 


~' . . '· 
,......_ .._ ...7 ...-·-·-·-··-··---.u-..-·-·-·-··-r 
Next Season's Order 
And now here you nrc: The 1926 season is at 
NOTRE DAME MEN-
a close and there's nothing to do (since you've 
read the Review) but wait for another season. Talk it over at Hully and lVIike's. The ·following .are the nine games that were 
Football or track, histo1:v or 
listed as the tussels the Fighting. Irish. will have 
economics, they discuss it fully 
on their "eight-game" 1927. version of the llig 
at this popular hangout.
Pigskin Parade, as given out in some of our enterprising papers. As we go to press the of­ficial, honest-to-goodness, schedule has not been 
CIGARS.,--CIGARETTES
released for the fans to S!Jcculatc so we offer you this with the reservation "Subject to change with­-BILL!ARD-LU~CHES 
out notice." 
October 1 Coc College at Notre Dameil October 8 Detroit at Detroit 
t~HULLIE & -MIKE"
i 
October 15 Notre Dame at Navy
,,., October 22 Notre Dame at Indiana JOE CLAFFEY, Prop. October 29 Georgia Tech at Notre Dame (Successor to Hull and Calnon) November 5 l\linncsota at Notre Dame November 12 Notre ·Dame at Army 

Phone Main 5638 112 S. Michigan
,-I I -n•-•-••-••-n-•---••-••-••-•-n-••-••-•-c•_. 

_
... 
r·-~-n-••-•-•n-111--~·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·1.
I'
\ .. : 
:"1 
\' .\ I 
I
•J 
! 

c ~ l 
~ "Ro'ck" makes Notre Dame 
I
.L( II football teams-
J II 
Kuppenheimer makes clothes that suit college men. 
\'"• 
c ~. i ~ 
i <i ! 'I~ 
.. NEITHER GAN BE EXCE_LLED! 
\: 
·~ 
" 
LIVINGSTON'S 
-the house of Kuppenheimer 
. . 
' . . . -. . . . . :. . . ..1I 
L--·-·-·-·-·-•-·-·-·-·-·-·-~~--q~' 



I 
of 
Drs. GRIFFITH and LANGENBALM 
~------·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·­
a•~•-•-•-•-..-•-•-•-n---•-•-n-•-•1 
I 
I 
Dr. J. M. Singler Dr. E. A .. Probst 
DENTISTS 
261 Associates. Bldg. South Bend 
~---·-·-·-·-·---~~---·-----·-·-·-·-~ 
•-n-•-•-•-•-•-•-n-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-"1 
Dr. FREDERICK· L. AXTELL . 
D~NTIST 
315 Union & 1st National Bank Bldg. Michigan and J e~ferson Streets 
~-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-· 
~----·-·-...--··-·-·-·-111-11-lnl-·-·-·---~ 
. I 
I 
Compliments 
r of
r 
. . I
LaSALLE HOTEL 
I 
I 
I 
I. . !I 
I . . I 
L--·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·_;·-·! 
CITY LIFE 
PUBLISHING COMPANY 
324 \V. JEFFERSON ST. 
K. of C. Building 
. "Builders of the Football Review" 
~---a-•-•~n-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-n-J 
,-··~.._ .._,,_,,_.,_,,_.,._,,_,._,,_..___..___..J ALTERATIONS CLEANING 
I 
' 1 . 
I. 
-"Best-for-Less'' 
I 
MERCHANT TAILORS 
126~ W. \Vashington St. (Second Floor) 
PRESSING and REPAIRING ART BERG, Manager 
I 
~•-•-•-•-•-•-ua-••-•---•-•-•-•-~~-•-' 



CENTRAL LOCATION AND THE EXCEL­' 
' 
LENCE OF ITS EQUIPMENT. ,. l : 
.>~j
PALMER HOUSE 
:. 
Paln1er Square Walter L. Gregory · State, Monroe & Wabash _ Manager .I lI. 
I 
I 
I 
I . II 
L•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-~-·-•-•-•-•-•-•-n-.•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-. 
. ' . 
-•-•...:..•-·-·~·-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•-•---;-•-11-•-•-•-•-•-•-n-u-•~..-•-•-•-n-•1· 
"When· Notre Dame goes·· marching -down the field" · 
I
I. I· 
i . . 
Just watch the jaunty jerseys I the· players wear.· ·All are ...I: l:l/ .m~nufactured-and guaran­.I teed.;by

I ~ . \ I 
O'Shea Knitting Mills.• -·~ 
D. C. O'Shea, Pres. w. c. King, .Sec'y. -rB._ O'Shea, Vice-Pres. 
I 
M ak e.r s 
I 
. !
. ATHLETIC. KNITTED. WEAR FOR EVERY SPORT 2414 North Sacramento ·Ave-nue CHICAGO, ILLINOIS iI . 
••••••. t •. 
PHONE ALBANY 5011 
I
; . . . 
'. ' f .
~---·-·-~---·---,--~..~·-·-·~·-·---·..--~·-·-·-...----~~-·-·-~~---·-·---~·-·­
1 
!· 
' 
'•. ..' ·; ;· ... 
,. .i . 
.1 \ 
. L. -IL.





:,,/;' 
.)'
-:] 
'/.-.:., 
.: ~ \ . . . . . ; i •. )(;:­

;~_ :_:~---<~~·~:~:N\:~)~.ft~=-~~~: ~-~~--=-~-~~:-,----:-·7-;~ ~;;:~~5~-:~~~~x~ :.~~~~~~ ~:_.-:,-:;~ ~;}_zJ 










THE OFFICIAL 
F-oOTBALL REVIEW 
SEASON OF '27· 


""()niversity of Notre Dame 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

Edited by 
JOHN .F. DUNNE 

JAME~·F. HURLBERT RICHARD L. NOVAK 
Business Manager .Advertising Manager 
The Contributors 
JOHN P. SMITH, Varsity Captain. . WARREN W. BROWN, Sports Editor, Chicaeo Herald-Examiner. GRANTLAND RICE, Columnist, New-York Herald-Tribune. 


JOHN RICKORD, Notre Dame Correspondent, South Bend News-Times. QUINN A. RYAN, Radio Announcer, Chicago Tribune Station. LT. COMMANDER 0. 0. KESSING, Graduate Managei·, Naval Academy JAMES R. HARRISON, Columnist, New York Times. EDWARD W. SMITH, Sports Authority, Los Angeles Examiner. HARRY C. ELMORE, Official Photographer, South Bend News-Times. GEORGE TREVOR, Columnist, New York Evening Sun. 
W. W. EDGAR, Sports Writer, Detroit Free Press. JIMMY CORCORAN, Columnist, Chicago Evening American. RICHARD A. HARRINGTON, Art Editor, The Dome. JOHN W. STAHR, Sports Writer, South Bend Tribune. 

I 
\ 
i 
l 
l 

·A'l 
,rJ 


The Beloved Leader 
·THE :'IIEMonv of George Gipp is the sacred heirloom of the Notrc Dame man. About the memory of the immortal captain has grown a halo of tradition that is Notre Dame's most cherished possession. Enshrined in the hearts of the 
men of Notre Dame is the vital memory of their. leader. Today George Gipp lives for the Notre Dame man as truly as he did when his "flying cleats" made immortal history on Cartier Field. 
The 1927 Football Revie'W is dedicated to George Gipp, athlete, scholar and hero, in the hope that it may provide some slight expression of the lov~ wl.Iich Notre Dame men cherish for their star of stars. 

.~ 
[ 2] 

-------------------~-~--~-~-­
GEORG.E GIPP 

The little town in Michigan Is tucked beneath the snows; A norther fran~ Superior _Is calling as it blows. Fullnzany a hundred yards or nzore · Lie down the village street And s_eenz to wait the darting pass 0 f fanzous cleated feet. 
The n~ining shafts oj-Lauriu1n 
Are goal posts in the gloan~ing And the treetops sou1id a whistle To the copper nziners honzi1ig. 
A n~urnzu1Js in the wind ~aday-__· To all the native h.earersj~ · · 'And whirling gu;ts fran~ far Canuck Are twenty thousand· cheerers. 
The ·gmne is on! And through the snow · _The northers sweep. and dip, The wind is calling signals 
To:iis brother halfback, .Gipp. 

The Indiana prairi.e lands Are blanlwted with snow. The golden don~e of Notre Danze ·Re-gilds the sundown glow. On the nzedieval cmnpus, In the early j1·osty flurry, Two thousand nzen ar.e harking To the w'ind' s uneasy scurry. 
(\ 
A rat-a-tat of flying feet Is..born fr01n Cartier, _ 
· Tho' ihe gridiron now is barren And the dusk is in the air. Is it A1·1ny, Purple, Geo1·gia?­
Is it sc01:es they now renzenzber? Or class-ic·... catch.es leaps and runs, This evening i1i Dece;nbeJ.if 

.  .  ····:  
I  •  The i1h;:e is on! A?td through. the snow  
r • •·• .,; -•--:.•''f•  T!w'~1U?rthers swJ·ep and dip,·rhe wlizd· is calling signals  
To its brother halfback, Gipp.  
QuiNN A.  RYAN.  

[ 3] 

. _.) 
~ 
::..._..... ,......;:.--·.;: .<.../J 
I 





KNuTE K. RocKNE, Director of Athletic.s 

I 

[4J 


r' 
Never-a Wizard Like Rockne! 
By EDWARD ,v. SMITH, Los Angeles E.vaminer 
I
«:..."' :~ '. F KNUTE K. RodiniE never does another thing in his life, he'll go down in history as tile one greatest ·wizard ·of the world. This mighty Scandinavian doesn't have to show 'em any more. He's done enough. And they believe now there is abso­lutely no limit to his necromancy. 
Rockne wouldn't -be so ·bad with the home folks if he didn't so everlastingly rub it in in his gentle, genial way by smiling .off all adulation. and p~aise. Darn it, they say, you cuss him till you ~an't find words o~er .the tliings 'llC .does to an op­posing team. , Then when you meet .him he is su~h a gosh...:dinged nice fellow, so utterly without guile, ·so positively ingcnius, so meek and ·lam'b-likc-well, after you leave him, you have to give: him t~1rcc cheers. These are the cheers he won't listen to when you arc in his presence.. 
One coach of a secondary college expressed ·himself about "Rock" the other day in the course of a chance conversation. I-Iis smile was immense. 
Rockne's name thus came uiJ-it generally does, and with a bang.· 
"Quite a chap, isn't he?" was my quite tame and inconsequential query. 
This peppery coach looked at me in some disgust at the classification I so in­consider.ately put upon .the mighty man. Then he exploded his opinion. 
"Say, there's a fellow that could drag a g~u.glc out of. an empty flask!" 
Rockne is a sportsman. He's built that way, ll~S trained himself and his system that way, desires his boys to be that way and N_otrc Dame, despite the subtle slurs offered behind sneakingly uplifted cupr)ed han.ds; nlways will be glorified' by this man,' his men nnd his methods. . 



I
I 

The. Last Word. from Our Leader 
. SEASON of superlative football has ·come to an end! And the Notre Dame Var­. sity is intrinsically satisfied that it ha~ done its best; that the student body
A 
. is appreciative of this fact. At no time would I he able to ·say, with as much sin­cerity and reserve, and at no ti~e so· appropriate as this, the gratification that has been mine in being able to lead; onto the turf of historic Cartier Field and all enemy fields, a squad of inen who have fought so manly and unflinchingly for the honor 
and glory of Notre Dame. 
"Their deeds her inspiration; 
Their names a solemn tradition of Notre Dame." 
-CAPTAIN JOHN p. SMITH. 
[ 6] 


./ 






,t.I 


-r 
r 
~ 

/ 
Football Cf{e·view of' 1927 
Personnel of Coaches a11d Squad 
KNUTE K. ROCKNE 
Coach 
HARTLEY ANDERSON THOMAS .i\IILLS 
Assistant ·coaches 
JOl-IN P. S.i\IITH  .JOI-IN .J. \VALLACE  
Captain  .JOHN V. Mcl\lANl\lON  
Freshman Coaches  
AUGUST l\I. GRAl\IS  
. Ifead nianager  
.E: BOLAN BURKE  
.Associate.· J.lianager  



Tl1e Players 
Fmm CoLLINS, Full GrwnaE LEPi•IG, 'Guard . .TOE l\IonmssEY, Quarter FnED l\fn,Lim, 'l'aclde .Timny RANS~\VAGE, Tackle JOHN FnEDEHICI{, Center 
· \VILLIAl\1 HunLEY, Ifalf J ~SEPH NASH, Center .TACK 1\fcGRATH, Taclde Ti-IOMAS l\Iun.PHY, End FnANK l\JcCAR'rHY, Center .1OliN VEZIE, End TIMOTHY l\loYNIHAN, Center EL:\mn.· \VYNNE, Full CnAHLES RILEY,· Quart.er .1 oE Loc1m, Gum·d GEoHGE l\fURRIN, Guard D. SnAY, Full CmLE \VALSH, End .JAl\IES Bn.AY,lfalf .1 OHN VoEmscn, End RAYMOND Sl\IITH, End .T OHN CHEYIGNY, Ifalf Tn<niAS NooN, 'l'aclde JoHN LAw, Giwrd. \VILLIA~I GnEER, Guard .Tog BENDA, End \VILLIAl\1 DEw, Full Att'rHUit Dt~NCHFIELD, Full \VtLI,IAl\1 CASSIDY, Guard .Lums HunLBEH'r, End JOHN l\IcSon.LEY, Ifalf .1 oux CoLERicK, End J OIIN CnmsTIANSI<~N, Guard .JOliN N IEl\IIEC, Ifalf BEnTRAl\1 1\JE·rzaEn, 'Guard Tuol\IAS BYRNI<~, End Tnol\IAS KAsAIS, Guard .J. l\L Bn.ADY, Quarter Tno:MAS QuALTEns, Full ALBEHT GEnnEnT, Quarter EnwAim \VnrrE, End JOSEPH PRELLI, Ifalf JOHN Pni<~NDERGAs·r, Center CnAHLES :McKINNEY, Quarter BERNAHD HuaaEn, Center Ern\'IN STEIN, 'l'acl.le \V. Jl. BYRNI~, Full RAY DAHMAN, Ifalf J. F. l\lEHAI\:, 'l'acldc .TOliN PoLISKEY, TacHe T. S. McLAUGIILIN, Taclde EDMOND CoLLINS, End RommT BRANNON, Ifalf . l\IooN MULLINs, Ifalf JOHN I-L\ImiNGTON, End 
T. F. KEXNALEY, Quarter S:Al\1 RicHARDs, Tacl.:le. CnmsTm FLANAGAN, Ifalf Cmus \VILIIEMMY, Ifalf 
R. L. DoNAIIUI<~, 'l'aclde Lours NOHMAN, Center \Vn,LIAl\1 .ToNEs, Guard l\L\IUON I-IEPFEHNAN, End .TOliN DoAnN, 'l'acHe HowAnn SMrrn, Ifalf HrmBimT ScHui,Tz, 'l'acl.~!e JOliN lh~DGA'l'E, IIalf .TAcK CANNON, Guard .TOliN \VINBEHHY, End EucmNI·: l\IAIIONI·:Y, 'l'ac!.-lc .J<>HN Er,m:n, IIalf 
[ 9 J 


I 
l 
i 
i I i I 
Football 'l{_eview of 1927 
l! ll 
l 
I 
I 
1 
j 

j • ~ 
.Jr-·:_;, 
l ·~-~>: 
1 
'·i 
........ .:.;·L 

.. ;·r ··! .': 

I 
. I 
I! I 
I 


KNUTE K~ ROCKNE 
Head Coach 
HARTLEY ANDERSON 
THOMAS MILLs· 
Line Coach 
Assistant Coach 
[ 10] 
Football CJ{eview of 192? 

JOHN J. \IVALLACE 
F1:eshnian Coach 
The legal half of the firm of "rallace and ~Ic~Ianmon holds his law secondary only to. that of football as taught by Coach Rockne. Consequently we find his return to Notre Dame this fall to coach the Frosh and further his legal research. The perfection of the_ opposing team's plays as dintlged to the fre~hmen by Cqach \Vallace aided Rockne trem~ndously during the past season. His ability as a scout, candidly, has been a true aid in preparing the freshmen for scrimmage against the varsity each week. 

JOHN V. McMANMON 
F1:eslunan. Coach 
The same that has ·been said of Coach \Vallace holds true with Coach ~Ic~Ianmon with the exception of the legal ,part. The latter, the second part of the combination of wit and football, drilled the freshmen with so much drive and vigor that it cnnnot be denied tltat tlic varsity will be greatly strengthened by the addition of several of this ·season's yearlings in 1928. The line play of the fr~shmen, for which Coach Mc~Ianmon was responsible, was exceptional this year. 


I .• 
Auaus·r ~L GRAMS 
IIead 1lfanager 
RoBim·r E. KmnY 
Head Cheer Leader 

~ 11] 


\. 
I 
l 
::· 

--. 

Football CJ{eviejv of 1927 
CAPT. ·JCHN "CLIPPER" SMITH. 
Hartford, Connecticut 

After making a. tour of the football camps, Lawrence Perry classified our watch chnrm guard as one of the two greatest guards in the country. Bv his consistently fine performances this season, h~ will undoubtedly .re­c~ive All-American recognition. Johnny hns the enviable record of playmg three vears as a reO'ular O'Uard on the Notre Dame varsity. The Clipper was in a dlass by hims~lf fo; power, nggressiveness, interference and ability to diaO'nose plays. He \\rill lonn· be remembered as a grent guard and a fine leader. The Clipper had a field day at tl1e Army; and in th~ :Minnesota game recovered a fumbled punt to give Notre Dame the opportunity to score. 

ELlVIER WYNNE 
Nort01~; Kansas 
Elmer tis.ed to be known as Chet 'Vynne's brother, but after this se~son Chet will be known as Elmer 'Vynne's ·brother. Elmer was a consistent ground gainer, :1_. great defensive man· and a fine interferer~ A bad leg forced him to leave the Navy game; and this injury handicapped him the rest .of the season. His defensive play in the Navy game received a. great deal of favorable comment from the press. He also starred in the games with Detroit 
I

and Drake. Judging from his early season form had he not ·been on the I injured list he woul_d have made a strong bid for national recognition. 
I 
I 
.. j 
JOl-IN "BULL" .POLISKEY 
-I 

Bellaire; Ohio . r 
The .Bull is all..that the name implies. His ferocious charges through the 
,I 

line to nail ·opposing backs for losses made him one of the outstanding line­men of the season. Although small in stature, J olm is powerful, rugged 
I 
I 

and extremely fast in getting down the field to cut down the secondary or to cover punts. Poli~kcy held down·the tackle position for three years, and played perfect football in every game. Poliskey starred against l\Iinnesota; Army mul Georgia Tech. By his season's ·play, the Bull p~ovcd conclusively that an Irish name was not necessary to be a "Fighting Irishman." .._.
_ 
JOHN FREDERICK 
Saginaw, Michigan 
.John had quite an assignment this fall when he was selected to fill the gap left vacant when Bud Boeringer, All-American of 192G, graduated. But in his own quiet way' he caused followers of the "Fighting Irish" to forget there c\·er was a center n~med Boeringcr. John played a flawless game all season. Playi:Jilg a roving center, he knocked down passes, broke up end· runs and made himself u general nuisance as· far as the opl)onents were concerned. 
His greatest individual feat of. the season was blocking a punt in the Navy. game which '"alsh converted into a touchdown. 



[ 12 ] 
·I 
Football 'R_eview of 1927 . 
"CHRIS" FLANAGAIN. 
Port Arthur,_ Texas 
The Texas Phantom was a marked man this season:, and Notre Dame's op­ponents concentrated. on stopping him and in the majority of instances failed. His snakcy hips fooled many ambitious tacklers, and in every game he romped for long gains. Christy ran wild. against Coe, Detroit, Navy 'and Indiana. His speed, fearlessness, elusiveness, change of· pace and nonchalant style make him one of the· outstanding ball toters in the country. The Texan's gallops ranged from 15 to 70 yards; his most scintillating performance being a seventy yard run in the Coe game. 
CHARLES· RILEY 
lndiauapolis, Indiana 

In Chnrlcy Riley we have :1 typical Notrc Dame quarterback. A ten­second man, a fine passer :md a great pass receiver, colorful and with un uncanny accuracy for finding t~lC weak points · of his opponents. By out­smarting his opponents Charley -pulled the Irish out of many holes during the season, and obtained the ·best possible results out of his team. He was consistently good in every game. His greatest accomplishment was scoring a touchdown in the Georgia Tech game after receiving :t pass and eluding most "of the Georgia Tech eleven. His sneak plays were a fcnturc of the Indiana, Army and Detroit games. . · 

"CHILE" vVALSH· 
Hollywood, California 
Chile upheld the high standard of the \Valsh clan at right end for Notre Dame this year. His pluy all season was practically errorless and was a great asset to the tea~. He is fast, strong, well built, a superb handler of fhe forward pass and a star end down the field. Opponents found him hard to circle and he boxed opposing ·tackles with surprising regularity.· His great­est individual feat was scoring a touchdown in the Navy game on a blocked punt: Chile received great praise from the press for his play ugainst Minne­sota, Army and Southern California. 
RAYlVIOND "BUCKY" DAHlVIAN 
Youllgsiowil, Ohio 

Ducky's ·work at halfback this .year has been nothing short of sensa­tional. Time and again, he brought the stands to their feet wih his sensational runs around end. and off tackle. Being an All-\Vcstcrn basketball guard ac·· counts "for his phcnomcn'ul ability to knock down enemy passes. Bucky is a fine interferer,··a reliable punter and a speedy and slippery runner. His wide flank sweeps were a feature of the game with the Navy. Dahman starred 

I
in the games with Indi:ma, Detroit, ·Navy and Southern California. Bucky's football activities at Notrc Dame arc over, and we regret the passing of this versatile athlete. · · 
I 
. II 
I 
[ 13]. 
l 
j 





Football 'l{eview of 1927 
JOHN "IKE" VOEDISCH 
South Bend, Indiana 

For three years the pride of South. Bend has held down 'the left wing position on the Irish eleven; and has yet to make an error. A sure and savage tackler, a great fon\;ard pass receiver and one of the fastest men on the squad, he meets. with· the high standards set by former great Notre Dame ends. He has played in real All-American style although handicapped towards the last of the season by a leg injury received in the Minnesota game. His brilliant. and consistent end play has gained· for him the national repu­tation of being a star end: _ · 

·.1 
. "FREI)" MILLER 
Milwaul~ee, H1isconsin 
.:,
In his sophon1orc year, l\filler replaced Boland at left tackle when Boland was injured in the Minnesota game. From the first, he has been a 

I
star and has proved ·to be an invalua:ble unit· in the Irish forw!ard wall. 

Powerful, fast and shifty, he was alway.s at just the right spot to repulse the ~! 
charges of the enemy. His play against Detroit, Army, Navy and Southern i 
California brought many compliments from the press. Freddie has one year 
!
of competition left; and if he· performs in his senior 'year as he has in the 
i
past ·noth~ng less than an All-American berth will do him justice. 
I 
I 
I

JOHN "BUTCH" NIEMIEC Bellaire, Ohio .--! 
I


Butch is the most versatile back on the squad. A long distance punter, an accurate forward passer; and with great speed and elusiveness he could always be relied upon to make the· necessary gains against all sorts of op­position. His unusual ability has won for him the ~i~tinction ."of being one of the greatest triple threat men that football has ever known. ·His long punts gained a great deal of ground for the Irish in exchanging kicks. His ·romp around end for a touchdown in the l\Iinnesota· game was his finest con­tribution this season. · 
GEORGE LEPPIG . Cleveland, Ohio 
For' po,~cr, aggressiveness a~d ability to diagnose plays George was in a class by hz~self. George played a steady game all .season. Opposing line­men found lu~ hard to tak? out and harder yet to keep. him from. crashing through tl~c lme and .t~trowmg th? ·ball carrier for a loss. George has an­other year of competitiOn, 'and w1ll be heard from next season. vVith the experience gained this season George should do great things in 192s. Leppig's guu!J play was a feature of the Minnesota, Ind~ana and Drake games . 
. [ 14·] 




·~ 
Football 'l{.eview of 1927 
FRED COLLINS 
Portland, Oregon 


Due to injuries, Fred· did not get started until mid-season; hut when he did get in there, he ripped opposing lines -to pieces. Fred is a ten second man of the Layden type with a keen eye for openings and a great open field runner. In the Georgia Tech and Indiana games, Fred bore the brunt of the running attack, performing in true All.:.:American style. Colli_ns will be b~ck next year and we expect the dashing, nonchalant, flashy Oregonian to carve a deep niche for himself in Football's Hall of Fame. 
"JOE" BENDA 
Duluth, Minnesota 

Injurics kept J oc off the Notrc Dame eleven for two years, but this season he came into his own. A fast, rangy and smart end, Joe was always on top of the play; .down the field to nail the safety man in his trucks, or drifting out to snare a forward pass in his own inimitable way. Benda caused many opposing halfbacks to be thrown .for losses, and was particularly adept in sifting through interference. His phenomenal playing in the Georgia Tech, Navy and Detroit games were the particularly daring performances of this splendid wing. 
JOHN "JACK" CHEVIGNY 
H anunond, Indiana 
Chev's long end runs and off tackle smashes won the plaudits of e\'ery one who had the opportunity to see this colorful halfback in action. Pos­sessed of snakey hips, lightning speed and ability to tackle savagely, the Chev was fore\•er worrying the opponents. 'Vith no regard for life or limb, he made a shoestring tackle to stop J oesting in the :Minnesota game and pre­vented a sure touchdown. His defensive play was a feature of every game; and his long gallops in the Coe, Detroit and Georgia Tech games will serve 
'as fuel for the hot stove league this winter. · 
GEORGE '.'CHUNK" MURRIN 
Parl<ersburg, HTest Virginia 

Chunk started his football activities at Notre Dame us a center, being understudy to Boeringer for two seasons. This year he was shifted to guard; and judging from his season's play had he been more experienced in this position, he would have seen· more action. Taking into consideration his in­experience, :Murrin performed in brilliant style. 'Ve admire Chunk for his courage, his versatility, his tenacity and his aggressiveness. Chunk displayed considerable pro\vess in the games with Coe, Indiana and Georgia Tech. 




.[ 15 ] 


Football CJ?..eview of 1927 
I ; J I CHARLES .IVlcKIN.NEY 
Philadelplzia, Pennsylvania 
/~--,. 
r 
:~l~,,,.\ 

In runninO' :McKinney on the second outfit, Coach Rockne was well awnrc of the fact th~t Charlie-some say Chal-·could handle the shock troops in ,·~~~~
( jsuch a way as to puzzle the opposition :mel wcm: them do'\'!1 for the first tcnm; and even 1rct the jump on them in the scoring; witness the .Indiana game at Bloomingt~n. Charles has common sense knowledge in barking signals; h:~s finesse in hurlino· lon(J' accurate forward passes; and comes the closest tins 
I:) . I:)' II

}~car of any of the quarterbacks in resembling Harry Stuhlclrchcr, A -
.I American qunrterhaek of '2·1. 1Vatch for Charlie next year. 
I 
JAlVIES "JIM" .HURLBERT 
New. Yol·k City 
Jim received the reputation of a VICIOus tackler when ns a frcshm:m he howled over Don .Miller. Rock immediately requested him to retire from action. Ever since, he has upheld that reputation, being in there every minul:' rocking and socking the opponents. He was ha.ndicappcd in his sophomore and junior years ·by injuries, bu~ this year he was in the thick of the fray nt all times. Tearing in time and agnin to break up pl:tys was Jim's hobby. Possessed of great intestinal fortitude, the rougher the going became the better ·.Jim liked it. He played well against Detroit, Navy :mel Drake. 
"TIM" MOYNIHAN 
Chicago, Illinois 

Tim alternated with Frederick ~t: the pivot position this season; and with such a good old Gaelic cognomen it is no wonder that Tim filled nil the requirements of a Fighting Irishman. He was a smooth and accurate passer, a stone wall on defense; is possessed of a fighting heart, :md _was particularly brilliant in sizing up a break in the line, and getting to it in time to upset the runner with a dull thud. Tim will be in the lineup again next year, and with the experience he hns gained this year he should he one of the best centers in '28. Tim played remarkable football in the games with Coc, Drake, Indiana 
and Georgia Tech. 

JOHN COLERICK 
Newark, New Jersey 
'l'l~e first time John donned :~ football suit :md appeared on Cartier Field, he. 1:cnunded. the old guard of Anderson and Kiley because of his outstanding aluhty to drift down the field, snare· a pass on the dead run, :md advuncc. the hall far into enemy territory.. His peculiar knack of lc:iping into the air to catch a pass while surrounded. by opposing backs was sensational at all times. After scci~g J oh.n in acti~n~ against· Indiana, Minnesota and the Army, critics were unammous m the opmwn that before he leaves Notre Dmnc he will sur­
pass the records of the greatest ends. 
[lG] 



Football 'l{evie.v of 1927 -:--_,,:. 


WILLIAM DEW 
Fond dtt Lac, Wisconsin 
Playing on the third team this season, Billy has shown enough ability to warrant our saying that had he been at another college his line plunging would have merited him a first string berth. Billy gave 'Vynne and Collins real opposition for fullback. honors. He is a smashing line plunger, a keen and steady defensive man, and a vigorous interferer. Coe, Detroit, Navy, and Indiana found Billy a hard man to stop. This· was Dew's first year of varsity play, and before the "Big Football Parade" is over we predict that Bill~~ will make a place for himself among· Notre Dame's immortals. 
"JOE" PRELL! 
Oakland, Califontia 

An early season injury _kept Joe out of the first four games. But when ~1e. did see action, he made things hum. Being a track man of unusual ability, It IS only natural that opponents found Joe a hard man to lay hands on. His elusiveness, defensive work, speed, and knolfledge of the game made him a valuable asset to the team. Joe carried the ball for. substantial gains every time it was given to him. He was at his best, however, in the Army and Drake games. During his three years on the varsity, Joe has seen plenty of action and. could always be relied upon for steady gains. 



JERRY RANSAVAGE 
Kingston, P(!nnsylvania 
Jerry is without a doubt the str.ong man of Knute Rockne's 1927 troupe7 Jerry. held down left tackle on the shock troops, and opponents found him to be the proverbial stone wall when they directed a play in his direction. His unusual strength and agility enabled him to break through and upset a_mbitious ground gainers. 'Vith the experience Jerry has gained this year he should be one of. Rock's greatest linemen next season. Jerry played mar­velous football in the Navy, Drake and Indiana games.. 
JOHN LA\V 
New Yorl~ City 

New York City :mel the elite East may be proud of :\Iayor Jimmy "'alker and all that; but Notre Dame is just as proud of one of the scrappiest guards that ever played for the Fighting Irish. L:n\' played the part of a shock trooper during the past season, not bec:mse he couldn't make the grade on the first team, but because the part of a shock trooper is as important as that of any other on the Irish squad. His ability to pull out on certain plays, and to hold his man iJ?-on other plays has stamped him a guard of ability and finesse. His best performances were against Detroit, Indiana, and Drake. 

[ 17] 

Football CJ{eview of 1927 · 
"JACK". ELDER 
Louisville, Kentucky 

The Colonel from the blue grass state ran the ends· · ragged this season. ·Jack is the fastest man on th.e 
Va.rsity and once past the line of scrimmage is impossible 
to catch. After his brilliant 95-yard run in the Drake 
game he was named the ·New ·york Century-here he 
comes, there he goes. Jack will be heard from next 
season, and before he hangs up his cleats will be given 
due consideration by selectors of the All-American. 
"JIM" BRAY 
Kansas City, Missouri 

If you are looking for a classy halfback who can 
punt, run and pass with the best of them we recommend 
the Kansas City speed merchant. Jim saw action against 
Coc, Georgia. Tech and Indiana.; and it took the com­
bined efforts of the opponent's line to check this !;lip­
pcry hnlfba.ck. 
''JIM" BRADY 
Pocatello, Idaho 

Jim saw action for the first time this year. on the 
,·arsity and proved himself to be a dapper ,and depend­
able quarterback. Great things are ~xpected of the 
Idaho flash next year. Jim is smart, fast and shifty. 
He showed to good advantage in tht: gmnes with Army, 
Navy and Drake. 
"EDDIE" COLLINS 
Chicago, Illinois 

For two years Eddie was· kept off the Irish squad by injuries. This year his lack of experience under fire kept him somewhat irt the background. Playi~g the winged perf~ction with Inarked perfection when he did get in there, Eddie caused many opposing backs to be thro\\'n for losses and many contemplated end runs to be smaslted in the making. 
"DICK" DONAHUE 
.Auburn, New York 

\Vith so many outstanding tackles on the squad it was almost impossible for even such a remarkable tackle as Dick to break into .the lineup. Dick has two ·years of competition left and with the experience he has had this year wi~lf-undoubtedly be a big asset to Coach Rockne next fall. · · 
JOHNDOARN .Onzaha, Nebraska J olm was one of the outstmiding linemen of the sea­son. His offensive· work opened wide gaps in the line of opposition, and enabled the Irish backs to reap long gains tl1rough his side of the line. J olm bolstered up the line in great style and was a tackle of real ability. 
"JOE" LOCKE 
Chicago, Illinois 

For a sophomore guard Joe showed considerable ability, and if he continues to improve Rock has no cause to worry about replacing Clipper Smith next season. .Toe's fighting heart carried him into the thick of the fray and after a few tries at his. position the op­posing quarterback left .Toe alone the rest of the day. 
"JOE" MORRISSEY 
Danville, Illinois 
Joe was Rock'~ ace in the hole and was sent in at crucial per.iods to stem the onslaught ·of the opposition. Possessing a cool head and eyes that were quick to de­tect the weakest points in the opponent's .line, Joe made good every time he was called upon. He }lerformed brilliantly in the games with Coe, Detroit and Georgia. Tech. 
"JACK" McGRATH 
Cleveland, Ohio 
Jack was shifted from fullback to tackle this year because of his boxing ability. Inexperienced though he was in this position, he performed in first class style and ought to be :i regular bearcat. next season. His line play was a· feature of the Indiana, Drake and Navy games. 
FRANK McCARTHY 
Indianapolis, Indiana 
The wealth of center iuaterial was the reason for Mac's failure to play more .than he did. \Vhen he did see action he proved himself to ·be an accurate passer and a great defensive man. \Ve admire ~Iac for his courage, persistence and loyalty. ~Iac showed some. real center play in the games with Coe, Indiana and Army. 
THOMAS BYRNE 
Cleveland, Ohio 
Tom was one of the most colorful of the Notre Dame ends this season, but due to the strenuous season he saw but little action. The keen comp.etition was the only thing that kept 'Tom from entering the ranks of the stars. Tom knows his 'position well and won the Hering medal for ends in '26. 
. WILLIAM "RED" HURLE.Y 
Springfield, Massachusetts 
Just when the flashy red head was ready to give the first stringers a fight for their jobs, he was stricken with appendicitis and forced to remain inactive all season. Red will long be r~mcmbered as a fast, elusive, high stepping halfback with great courage and ag­
.· gres~iven~ss. · 
"JOE" CANNON 
Colunzbus, Ohio 
Joe saw plenty of action this fall and in every game acquitted himself nobly. Joe developed rapidly during the past season and should be an invaluable unit in the forward wall next season . .T ~e's spectacular play in the Coe, Navy a~d Detroit games convinces us that the human projectile will break into great prominence be­fore he closes his career on the gridiron. 
"TOM" MURPHY 
Bridgeport; Conn. 
The wealth of end material kept Tom fi·om ·breaking into the lineup regularly. Tom is a tall, fast, powerful end who plays heads up football every minute. The 1928 lineup sho:uld find the good old Irish name of Tom :1\Iurphy at one !>f the wing positions for Tom has the stuff; all he needs· is the opportunity to display it. 


[ 18] 
1 

' • !,; • =--,-1 • -• ' , • • ~ " •'-_ • ~ ~ ,
~ ~ 


~ 
·~r:+---==--=---....~ ­
n
II 








The Go.mes· 



Football 'l{eview of 1927 · 
Notre Dame 28 
Coe 
The annual track meet, which serves to inaugurate the football season at Cartier Field, was cancelled this year, because Coe College produced eleven fighting veterans, who gave the Irish an interesting afternoon on the gridiron. · 
The gloom of a gray October sky was re~ected in the mood of the Notre Dame crowd at the end of the first half, which found the score tied at 7-7 and the Kohawks battling desperately and successfully to hold the Rockmen. 
The thousands of local fans who had come expecting to see a wild and woolly game were spellbound. The · South Bend Board of Strategy could offer no solution for this unprecedented state of affairs. · 
But it was an inspired Irish team which took the field at the start of the second half,. and on the second play after the kick-off Flanagan swept around his left end, weaved, dodged and squirmed his .way through the entire Coe team and dashed 56 yards down the field to cross tl1e goal line far ahead of his nearest pursuer. 
After this very fine example the Irish paraded down the field for two more scores and as the game ended the reserves were on the verge of scoring again. 
7 
Coe ~eing the. first game of the season the charac­teristic smoothness of Rock's teams was missing but the Irish were as colorful and as deceptive as of old. The Irish were slow in getting started but towards the end of the game were hitting on all six cylinders. 
As far as defeating Coe was concerned Notre Dame made a pretty thorough job of it, from a statistical standpoint. The· Irish made 18 first downs to their op­ponents' one, and gained 327 yards from scrimmage against 27 for the Kohawks. 
Coe 'brought a well drilled, hard fighting temi1 to Cartier.. Field, one -\vhich disregarded those who pre­dicted overwhelm'ing defeat at the hands of the Gaels. Throughout the entire first half they played a great defensive game but weakened in the second half under the ceaseless pounding they took from the Irish and had to give way before Rockne's fast stepping backs. 
Beloit under the guidance of Tommy :.Mills played the same kind. of a game in 1924 against the National Champions, holding them to a 21 to 0 score. 
It was a great opening and most of the customers went away pleased. Students were offering ten to one that Rock would ·hear from the Downtown Coaches' As­sociation by morning but strange as it seems there were no takers. 

[ 20] 
Football 'l{eview of 1927 
Irish OpeniSeason With Victory Over Coe 
By JOHN RICIWRD, 
South Bend N e'tvs-Times. 
Defeat for them a foregone conclusion in all minds QUt their own, a doughty band of red-jerseyed football warriors from Coe College swept onto Cartier field yesterday afternoon and breathed defiance at the horde of Notre Dame players who were planning on trodding them ruthlessly under foot for the edification of the 10,000 fans who had turned out to witness the Irish make their annual early season killing. 

The killing was made according to schedule, but not until the victors had been forced to exert themselves far more than is usual in their first attempt. The Kohawks faced unflinchingly the slashing attack of one of the speediest combinations which Rockne has ever developed, and when the final count was made at the-·end of the battle, the margin of victory was but 21 points, the score standing at 28-7. 
Great Early Game 
The game was one of the best in the history· of season-opener-s at Cartier field. · The usual walkaway victory had been predicted for the Rockmen, but the Coe players had not been consulted when the prediction was made. T·hey came out of Iowa prepared to give Rockne's team a battle and to win if. possible. And for a time they did throw a scare into Notre Dame fans. 
Alert and aggressive, they took advantage of every break of the game ,and when the first half ended, they stood on· even terms with their famous opponents with the score at 7-7. 
The second half was a different story, however. Tired 
·and battered, they were unable to withstand the drives of the Notre Dame team, which was being constantly re­plenished with fresh performers. Notre Dame scored three touchdowns, one in the third quarter and two in the fourth, before the final gun ended the contest with 
I the ball in Notre Dame's possession on Coe's one­~.._ yard line. · 
r 
Scouts desiring to determine what Rockne has to offer 
I this year were disappointed. Notre Dame used only straight football, with an occasional pass. Niemiec, Flan­agan and Riley all handled the ball well on passes. Coe
I 
attempted a few passes, only one of which was successful. 
,.~ 
· Coe Unable to Gain 
An offensive which could not puncture the Irish for­
~· 
ward line or bend its wings was largely responsible for the Kohawk's defeat. They were able to make only one first down against the three front walls which Rockne placed before them; and their lone touchdown came when .the Irish mixed signals while near their own goal .line and a pass .from Fredericks at center found no one in the backfield to receive it. The ball bounded back over the Notre Dame goal and Paschke, Coe guard, fell on it for six points. E. Barrows kicked goal and the advantage gained by Dahman's touchdown shortly before was eradicated. · 
On the defense, the Coe battlers played good ball, and it required hard plugging on the part of the Irish to push the oval across the Coe goal for their four markers. Rock started his second squad, which was held on more than even terms by Kohawks, and not until the first stringers entered the game in the second quarter did Notre Dame show much offensive punch. 
Then came an 80-yard march down the field which was culminated by Ray Dahm·an's dashing around left end behind perfect interference for a touchdown. Dahman also added the extra point. 
Wynne Hits Line 
The march was featured chiefly by line plunging on the part of Elmer Wyime, dashes off the tackle by Dahman and Flanagan and a. pass which resulted in a 25-yard gain. 
A few minutes later Coe tied the score. Coe received the kick-off but, after failing to gain, kicked to Notre Dame's four-yard line. After Wynne had made seven 
·yards on two plunges~ he was replaced by Shay because of an injury received in the second drive. The next play went amiss, the lob pass from center falling to the ground and bouncing over the goal line, where ·Paschke dropped on it. 
The half ended with the teams deadlocked at 7-7, but soon after the beginning of the third quarter, Christy Flanagan made one of his famous runs. On the third play of the period, he took the ball around right end, slipped inside of two Coe men who sought to run him out of bounds, and with the aid of his mates, galloped 56 yards to a touchdown. Dahman added the extra point. 
Pass Gives Score 
A long pass from Niemiec: to Voedisch was instru­mental in scoring the third Notre Dame touchdown. After carrying the ball from their own 40-yard line to Coe's 31yard marker on runs and plunges by ·wynne, 
Niemiec and· Chevigny, Niemiec tossed a 20-yard pass to Voedisch, who carried the ball to the Coe one-foot line before being downed. Riley then carried the ball over on a quarterback sneak through center. Niemiec's kick sailed true. · 
Substitutions were made and with the same team in, which started the game, the Irish pushed over another six-pointer. A march from Coe's 36-yard line began and Moynihan partially blocked a Coe punt, the ball being recovered by Notre Dame. Niemiec, Chevigny and Dew carried -the ball·· for steady gains, Dew finally taking it over on a plunge through the line. Niemiec kicked the 
'goal, and the score stood at 28-7. 
Rockne then began shooting third. stringers into the game,. and they took up· .the _work where the second stringers had finished. ·with Mullens and Elder, half­backs, carrying the ball for long gains on sweeping runs around the Coe \\rings, the third stringers had the ball on the Coe one-yard line when the game ended. 
[ 21] 
'"'·-==---­
Football c.R._eview of 1927 
! 
Rockne's Gaels.·Outclass Dorais' Titans
. . . . 
By ,V, W. EDGAR, Detroit Free Press. 
Those same stalwart athletes who gained considerable prestige for the University of Detroit last week against the Army reached for a higher rung on the gridiron ladder yesterday afternoon and missed it by three touch­downs as the Titans bowed in defeat to Notre Dame, 20 to 0. 
.Though defeat was their portion, the· Titans were not disgraced, and surprised their most ardent admirers by the stubborn defense that several times averted touch­downs for the highly touted Irish eleven. . 
It was the biggest task the Titans ever were called upon to face, and a record attendance witnessed what probably was the most colorful spectacle ever staged on the chalk-lined turf of Dinan field. 

Tribute to Coaches 
Every seat in the stadium was occupied and specta­tors jammed into every point of vantage while the two teams clashed for the first time. The gathering was a fitting tribute to the coaching ability of both Dorais and Rockne, first exponents of the forward pass, and former teammates at the South ·Bend school. 
And the 28,000 spectators who viewed the contest witnessed a game that never lagged in action and abounded in thrills until the final whistle. In the end it was the smartest team that won and the victory was justly deserved. 
From the outset it was apparent that the Titans could. not match the speed of their rivals who employed de­ceptive aerial attack to gain when within striking dis­tance of the goal line. Two times during the course of coinbat, it was a pass to Flanagan that netted touch­downs and the same attack paved the way for the third. 
Flanagan's Play Factor 
I, 
It was. Flanagan who prove,d the hub of the Notre Dame and the trust placed in him was fulfilled with several of the most spectacular plays of the game. It was Flanagan throwing passes, receiving them, and, to relieve the monotony a~ times, darting off tackle for long gains. His was the best brand of all around ability ever r! seen at Dinan field and Notre Dame owes its victory to
I; his ability of picking the logical moments for his moves. Like a prancing deer on a golden autumn afternoon, he was au· over the field, and during his stay in the game always threatened to break away for the same kind of a run that first brought him attention last year againstthe Army. 
After· the reserve teams of each school failed to score. in the opening period Christy Flanagan made his debut with a run ·of 28 yards on the first play of the second period. .It was this sprint that paved the way for the first score and started the Titans on the road to de­feat. Dahman followed up this sprint with another of 10 yards and Flanagan advanced to the 3-yard line. Here it appeared as though the breaks were against him. He hurled a short pass to Riley over the line, but the move was discounted by a penalty for holding. 
Passes Everywhere 
This didn't disturb the Irish, who j·ust adde.d that much more force and deceptiveness to their atta·ck. The pass· play was alternated, and, catching the Titans un­aware, Flanagan took a pass· to the 2-yard line and the same play netted a ·touchdown. The passing of this pair 
·was uncanny and provided the spectators with a sample of what was to follow. 
Not content with the damage already done, this pair, augmented by the line plunging of Wynne, were on the threshold of the· Titan goal line shortly after the third period opened. It was a pass to Flanagan, then to Riley, followed by an off tackle thrust, that set the·stage for the second score. · · · 
In this march the Irish unleashed a lateral pass that never missed its mark and the Titans were dizzy watching · the ball's progress. 
The play was well covered and the Detroit backs 
seldom found the right man. So it was when Flanagan 
took a backward toss from Riley and was brought to 
earth only when he had moved to within -seven yards of 
the goal. ·wynne made the task a little lighter with a 
plunge that netted an additional five yards. But· it was 
Flanagan, he of the swaying hips, that cut inside tackle 
.for the second score and removed all doubt as to the ulti­
mate winner. 
While the Irish showed ability at hurling passes, they 
were equally proficient in checking the overhead game 
of the Titans. And this defense directly resulted the final 
score. Pass after pass enabled the South Bend team to 
put the ball over the line, but as in the first period the 
score was nullified by a holding penalty. Given the 1 ball 
on their own 20-yard line, the Titans att(lmpted the over­
head style, but disaster was the only reward, as Niemiec 
reached high into the air and speared Brazil's pass to 
start the final march goalward. 
Titan Line Wilts 
Taking the ball on the Titan 28-yard line Dew hit 
center for five yards and the drive was on, this time to 
be successful. Niemiec took advantage of an· opening 
inside left tackle and reeled off 10-yards more and the 
Titan line wilted under the attack. With the forward 
wall weakening Notre Dame again resorted to passing 
and a long effort, Niemiec to Hulburt lacked two yards 
of a score. This was gained on the next play when Dew 
wriggled through the middle of the line for the final 
score. In defeat, though, the Titans never stopped trying. They ~vere in there fighting, fighting against odds that could not.be overcome. Once it appeared as though they were destmed to cross the Notre Dame line, but the effort went. for naught because of holding, a practice that was frequent throughout the game. . . . 
Misfortu~e· Stalks Titans 
. This J?lisfortune occurred on the opening play of the 
third periOd. "Cy" Janowsky took Dahman's kickoff on 
his own 18-yard line and calling on all the speed he 
possessed, the Titan fullback darted down the field. One 
by one he passed the chalk lines and his interference 
took man after man out of his path until finally he was 
brought down on the Notre Dame 20-yard line. 
The Titan followers were in a frenzy as he· added 
yard after yard to his 62-yard run, the longest of the 
game. But just when their soirits \vere highest gloom 
cast its shadow over the field for the ball ,\ras called back 
and the once chance the Titans had to score was cast aside by the officials. It was this misfortune, more than any other, that caused the Detroit spirit to wane. It was a time when the Titans were not destined to score and though the br.eak, nu~li~ed the run, it was the same fate met by the Irish precedmg ~ach of their first two touchdowns. · 
· Make Only Four ·Ffrst' Downs 
While the game had a decidedly Notre Dame com­plex, the Titans earned considerable praise for the stand they made in holding their· more experienced rivals to th~ee touchdowns on 17 first downs. On a basis of ground gamed Notre Dame was far in the van The Titans were credited with four first downs arid ori~ of these was the 
result of a penalty. 
It. sin:{ply was. a .case of a master forward passing combmatwn functwmng at all times and Rockne has the laugh ori Dorais in their· first meeting. 

( 22] 
•..__......,.._... -.. t. 
Football CJ{eview of· 1927 
Notre Dame 20 

Detroit 
In 19.13 Knutc Rockne, an end, and Gus Dorais, quarterback on the Notre Dame eleven, a team repre­senting. a small college some place in Indiana, intro­duced the forward pass i~to the East. Using the com­bi;nation of Dorais to Rockne, this light but fast team defeated the formidable "rest Point aggregation, 35 to 12. 
The years pass :md fourteen years later we find the old teammates rival gridiron mentors facing e-ach other across the chalk lined turf of Dinan Field. For sixty minutes their charges ·battle up and down the field. Both teams frequently usc the forward pass, the same weapon which had brought so much fame and glory to their coaches. But it wns Knute Rockne's "Fighting Iris·h" who were the most successful with the aerial attack. and Gus Dorais' "Titans" went down to a 20-0 defeat. 
N~trc. Dame completed eight out of 13 passes for a total of 7•1 yards while Detroit snagged six out of the 13 they attempted for a total yardage of •J.l yards. Notre Dame made fourteen first downs while Detroit received credit for three. 
0 
Christy Flanagan made his debut in Detroit by scor­ing two touchdowns and treating the spectators to a few of his famous gallops. Elmer 'Vynne gained consistently through the line and was a tower of strength on the defense. Charley Reilly was master of the situation at all times and used rare judgment in calling ·his plays. 
TllC Irish played a hard, determined game, brilliant in spots and· indicative of greater power as the season advances. Detroit still fresh from their great stand against the Army were a constant Inenacing threat. 
The Notre Dame line presented an impregnable de­! fense. Pitted against a husky group of forwards that l played the Army line to a standstill the }lrevious Sat­il urday, the light Irish line led by Captain J olmriy ·Smith 
li
performed in ·brilliant style. The nearest Detroit came to scoring was in the first quarter when .:\Ia.loney at­I tempted a place kick from the 33-yard line. 
The majority of the student body enjoyed the hospi­I tality of :Mr. Ford's home· town and supplemented by the band made the Irish feel at home in the automo­I bile city. 
I 


[ 23] 
-~ . I 
L 
·--~ 
l 
l 
Football 'l(eview of 1927 

Notre Dame 19 
Navy 
They used to call him General Rockne, but it's Ad­
.miral Rockne from now on. Admiral Rockne brought his small fleet of Cruisers to Baltimore, the home· port of the Navy, and despite the presence of many of Uncle Sa~n's greatest strategists succeeded in out-maneuvering_ the Naval Fleet. 
The contest was more even than the score indicates. The midshipmen were leading the Fighting Irish by a score of 6 to 0 at the end of the first half, and at no time was Notre Dame absolutely sure of victory. 
Rock started the second team, and the future ad­
. mirals promptly pushed over a touchdown after a splendid march froril midfield. The regulars were then pressed into action, ·but the Navy held them in check for the rest of the half. 
In the third quarter Frederick broke through the line, blocked the kick, and cut down Lloyd as the latter started to recover the ball which 'vas bounding back down the field. The ever alert Chile· \V alsh scooped up the ball, and raced across the goal line, tying the score. 
Chris .Flanagan then started to function, and ran the Navy ends ragged .bringing the ball to the Navy's goal line. Charley Riley made a few mysterious passes with the· ball; finally taking it himself and scooting around right end for Notre Dame's second score. 
Chris r~tired from the game and Niemiec replaced him. The midshipmen were surprised to find that Niemiec was the equal of Flanagan and ·had the same 

6 
peculiar knack of shaking off. ambitious tacklers. and sprinting. for long gains. Late .in the fourth quarter he passed thirty yards to Chile \Valsh, and .on the next pby smashed through tackle for the last Irish touch­down of the day. · 
The battle was a magnifi~ent clash, courageously 
fought between two evenly matched elevens. Both tea~s 
were possessed of powerful lines and strong ·backfields. /Both were well fortified with practically the same. type of offense, the aerial game and wide flank sweeps. Riley's cunning and the well drilled Not:re Dame team 
·.·.~ 
were too much for the Navy~ and they were at.:sea most of the afternoon. Navy backs. -found the Notre Dame line and impenetrable; Poliskey breaking and with through :Miller, on defense Smith, Fredericks the Navy · ··~ \ 
·: ri backs had a .busy afternoon. Notre Dame was far superior to the Navy in every ·department of the game and illustrat~d the old maxim that "a good team makes its own breaks/' There was precisiOn in Notre Dame's attack; Eleven ·men moved as one, and the ·blocki~g and tackling was extremely accurate. . . The game was hard fought but clea~ from the kickoff to the last play. This was Notre Dame's first game with the Naval Academy, arid Irish supporters arc con­fident that the same cordial relations that have existed between the Army and Notre Dame will exist with the other branch of the service. 
.• 

.. ·.~ 
·~ 
. ~· 
·[ 24] 

..-------·--------
Footbali CJ{eview of 1927 

·Large Crowd Watches Notre Dame ·Sink Navy 
B;lj GRANTLAND RICE. 
I,. Of the New Yorl~ 
The South .Bend simoon is roaring down the road again. Headed by two forked streaks of lightning-"on again Flanagan" and ''off again Niemiec"-Notre Dame beat the Navy, 19 to 6, yesterday afternoon as 53,000 spectators in the big Baltimore stadium looked on be­neath blue Maryland skies·. 
The South Bend simoon started away like a zephyr -with-the second team at work and the Navy scored in 
. about five minutes. But it was the same old blistering '\Vestern tornado when Knute Rockne rushed in Flanagan, Niemiec, Rjley, Walsh, Miller, Voedisch and the remain­der of his brilliant cast, who lost no time in changing the zephyr to a howling gale. 
Navy Scores on Notre Dame Fumble 
Even as it was the Navy led, 6 to 0, at the end of the fil'st half, but early in the third quarter the fast, keen Western attack, driving its way forward with the brilliant Flanagan at his best, had the Navy on the run. 
The Navy scored first on Notre Dame's fumble of a kick at midfield, a Notre Dame penalty on a forward pass, · a smashing run by Ransford and a double pass from Ransford to Spring. Notre Dame tied it up early in the third period. Lloyd dropped back to kick from his own 45-yard line. In a · wild surge Fredericks and Poliskey swarmed through to block the kick as Walsh recovered the bounding ball and raced over for the tying touchdown. 
A few minutes later "on again" Flanagan hit the warpath and two wide sweeping end runs in succession ·carried the ball from his own territory-fifty-one yards­
to within nine yards of the Navy's goal. 
· Riley scored the touchdown_ on a delayed pass. \Vhen Flanagan left the field Niemiec picked up where the star back left off and· ran the Navy off its feet to score again in the closing period of the day. After Notre Dame ·got warmed up the less-experienced Navy team fought 
·back savagely and grimly but nevertheless vainly against the play of the faster, quicker western backs !Vho picked their openings like streaks of light, who smothered the Navy ends and who in turn put on enough defensive pressure to break up the Navy attack the l!l'eater par·t of the afternoon. 
Navy's. Chances Soon .Fade It was a marvelous.day· for football from the view­point of 53,000. spectators who sat and cheered as the midshipmen marched across. the fields to their blue-tinted sector and began their cheering chorus before_ the game was on. There· was only a breath of _wind stirring, drift­ing lazily across the field and not a fleck of white against · the blue Indian summer sky above. ' . ~ ..... For the first few minutes against Rockne's wavering second string the Navy looked to be on its way, but when the old guard reported for action and the simoon from South Bend began to tune up, with Flanagan sweeping ·along the green_ turf, the Navy never had a chance. It was _up against a team entii·ely too smooth and fast and · powerful ii:t every feature of attack and defense. It was up against a line that outcharged and outblocked its own forwards and against a backfield that startec;l with far greater speea· and carried far better interference eight times out of ten. 
With Smoothness of Wind It was a wonderful sight to see one of Rocknes vet­.·. · eran teams in action. Every cog in its place and the entire e'nsemble drives along with. the smoothness of the western wind. So the Navy was up against more than . many, in the big stands could see, an alert, smart set of veterans who knew their jobs down to the final turn ·on every play, backs and forwards alike. It was. Notre Dame's heavy and continued pressure which broke up the Navy defense after the opening driye. 
I
Iferald-Tribune. 
Even such a back as Lloyd, 200 pounds in weight and 10 seconds in speed, never had a chance to get started. I IT-he western ·defense smothered him as the·surf smothers 
li 
a raft. T.hey were all over him at his first or second 
!
stride and he never had a chance to get away and use his speed. . 
To Notre Dame's 10-Yard Line The Navy started quickly against Rockne's second l string. The first break came when Ransford punted to ( l midfield and the ball bounded off Niemiec's shoulder to 
be covered by a Navy end. J 
A Navy pass drew open interference from a Notre Dame end and this penalty advanced the ball another 12 or 15 yards. Then Ransford crashed through the left side of the \Vestern flank for 20 yards to the 10-yard line, and after three line plays, a double pass from Rans­ford to Spring sent the ball over. Hannefian failed to kick goal, but the Navy was leading, 6 to 0, and the 
racket was terrific. 
Flanagan Held in Reserve Then something happened. Ten young men arrayed 
I
in the same colored sweaters came out to take their places. And "on again" Flanagan was still held in re­II serve. Things began to change quickly, but the Navy I' defense was fighting too hard and Notre Dame couldn't I 
l
score. At the end of the second period the Navy was leading, 6 to 0, but Notre Dame had piled up nine first downs against three, so you could see how the drift was working; you could see that the Navy defense, even with all its substitutions, couldn't hold back this Western 
. gale much longer. 
It was early in the third quarter that the Navy drew a tough break. Lloyd punted well down. the field, deep into Notre Dame territory, but Notre Dame was off side. So the Navy took its five yards, ran one running play and then Lloyd fell back to punt again. It was a harrow­ing incident. If that first kick had been take~, the Navy would have had its rivals deep in their own domain. 
Time and again the Navy backs tried out the Western line, but they rm;ely made a yard. There were cheers from the Navy section when Flanagan left the field, but the Navy section had forgotten about a young man named Niemiec. Niemiec was just another Flanagan, almost. In the last quarter Niemiec soon opened an attack by racing 32 yards up the field, then he kicked out of bounds 
on the Navy's 17-yard !ine. · · 
Unable to Check Niemiec Thatwasn't any.too soft for the Navy. A few minutes later the Navy overlooked something or pulled a boner by using a running play on the fourth down around midfield · so Notre . Dame-took the· ball. Niemiec then made 11 yards. A forward pass from Niemiec to Walsh got 10 more. On the next play Niemiec raced 11 yards th1;~mgh the Navy team, dodging,· ducking, spinning, twisting and turning as he fought his way across the line. It seemed as if a dozen powerful hands had gripped him and held him. But he continued on his way, a zig..; zag streak that could not be stopped until he had crossed 
the line. · It was a hard, driving battle all the way and the Navy undoubtedly would have made it closer still except for the blocked kick which upset the poise of the younger team and sent it to coasting down hill against the swift flanking movements of Flanagan and Niemiec. 
Praises Navy's Efforts Nothing but great football on a big day is going to stop Notre Dame this year, for Rockne has one of his old­fashioned smart teams and a world of reserve po,ver to throw irt when the right time comes. The less experienced Navy teain 'did well enough in carrying the tide of. battle as far as it did before the dykes gave way. 
[ 25.] 

Football CJ{eview of 1927 
Rockmen Mix Plays to Subdue Boosiers 
B.1J JOHN ,v. STAHR­
South Bend Tribune 

indiana University showed Notre Dame and the biggest crowd in her history, 21,000, a real football t~am here this afternoon, but it is going to take somethmg more than just a real football team to stop Notre Dame from going where she's going this happy autumn." 
·Mixing her. plays with a judicious variety that had the Crimson defensive baffled-most of the time, the Rockne cavalry came back after giving away the opening touchdown to the enemy and all but rode the stalwart Page men off the turf in the last thre~ periods of ~he game to achieve another 19 to 6 victory. It was the thu·d successive game in which the Irish got away to a one­touchdown handicap early in the game. 
There was rio ·sending of the regulars to the rescue this afternoon, though, after Reinhardt of Indiana had dashed off tackle 48 yards to a touchdown in the first five minutes, and the Irish first stringers remained on the bench while Coach Knute Rockne let his starting line­up fight back, and the starting lin-eup did fight back. 
Niemiec Puts Irish Ahead 
Soon after the second kickoff the starting Notre Dame team inaugurated an offensive from its own 47­yard line that put the ball in p9sition for a touchdown just as the first quarter ended, and on the first play of the second quarter Johnnie Niemiec went off tackle for the score, and then kicked the extra _point that sent Indiana into the rear where she remained the rest of the matinee although she fought back all the way. 
A neat pass from Morrissey to Chevigny, and a 13­yard dash off tackle by the latter, were large helps in the first Notre Dame march to a touchdown._ 
The Notre Dame first team entered the game a short 
,time after the score had been adjusted so the Irish sym­pathizers of whom there were many in the audience­could breathe more easily, but the strong defensive play of the scrapping Hoosiers stood off any more scoring for the first half. 
Flanagan Proves Terror 
At the start of the second half Indiana caused the Irish stampe-de to pause for just a moment before Flana­gan, who was not. inserted until _late i~ the first.half, began getting loose and penetratmg Crimson territory. The Texas Tenor was a terror once he started, however and scored the second touchdown on a 20-yard d~sh after 'W-hitey Collins had raced 33 yards down the Side line on the most thrilling excursion of the day. 
Notre Dame was kind of slow achieving her third touchdown · largely because a wild pass from center broke up ~ne drive just as it was about to terminate in a touchdown and they ha·d to start over again from midfield whence Indiana had booted the ball. But the third o~e arrived, nevertheless, \vith. Flanagan going over ~after doing _his share in· bringing the balL. back t_o_ scoring territory. · 
It was a great day for the battle between the north­ern and southern rivals of Hoosierdom, and with an enthusiastic crowd looking on. The weather was a bit warm for the best of football, but it was better than 
. having it muddy. 
Irish Tragedy Averted . ·' 
The first scene in the first act·gave promise that per­chance something in the nature of an Irish tragedy was going to be pulled off, when Reinhardt, carrying the ball for his third time in succession on the third play of the game, slipped off right tackle, cut back shortly and out­ran the Notre Dame secondary, 48 yards to an inaugural touchdown; 
The Indiana stands were crazy with elation and it was not until their team was thoroughly defeated that the cream and crimson partisans failed to have hopes for their team, and even when the last hope had flown, they were sti_ll mighty proud of their outfit. And they should be. 
The Indiana team deserved all the credit anybody can summon for it, not only for its fighting spirit, but it looked more like a football team than any Indiana team has looked for a long time. But it still has some things to learn, some things Rockne might call details, before it will shape up as the equal of Notre Dame on the gridiron. 
Riley Mixes His Plays 
The Rockmen's offensive was the same old baffling, varied, now here and now there style that it always is when touchdowns need to be made, and they were mixed with such a skillful touch by Charley Riley that there certainly was no profit in Indiana's trying to guess what in the nature of an offensive effort was going to be thrown at her next. It was in keeping the Cream and Crimson boys off balance all the time that the Irish offen­sive got its effectiveness. 
Again it was Christy Flanagan, Rockne's ace in the hole, that really provided the spark that-sent the Rockne runabouts on their·way to victory land. The interference formed in front of Christy like heralds clearing the way for a queen, and the Texan was fleet enough and sure footed enough to stay just the right distance behind them, and the way he lit out for himself as soon as the interference had spent its force was wonderflu to behold. He gained 116 yar.ds from scrimmage, and that with his longest single excursion being for only 20 yards. 
Johnny Niemiec and Whitey Collins were the other principal ground-gainers for the Irish, the blond full­back particularly being on his game again after not hav­ing been in shape previously all season. His extraordi-­nary speed carried him rapidly away from the secondary defensive players once he crashed through the line loose, and his run of 33 yards down the side lines was clicked off in 10 second time. 
Page Avoids Fancy Plays 
The Notre Dame line stacked up Indiana's plays throughout the game, arid batted down most of the at­tempts of the Hoosiers to gain through the air. Contrary to expectations, Pat Page's men failed to resort to any freakish offensive. maneuvers, though one kickoff had some of the earmarks of an effort at an onsidc kick. 
The figure hounds reported Notre Dame as acquiring 18 first downs to five for Indiana, which \Vould show a substantial superiority in ground gaining. In fact, there was quite a substantial difference in all 'round caliber of the teams, and except for that one sweet dash by Rein­hardt, the Hoosiers were· scarcely in the same class with the boys from South Bend. Notre Dame gained 293 yards from scrimmage against 118 for Indiana. Notrc Dame completed three passes out of nine for a total gain of 42 yards, and Indiana made good on three passes out of four for a total yardage of 46, and each team· inter­cepted one. 

[ 26] 

Football 'l{eview of 192i 
Notre Dame 19 


Indiana 
Before one of the largest gatherings of football fol-. lowers, the Indiana University eleven, which .had tied the powerful :Minnesota team from Minneapolis ·by the score of 14 to 14 a week previous, met defeat at the hands of a Fighting Irish contingent by the score of 19 to 6. 
Indiana commenced the· game with a punch that it had displayed against :Minnesota when Reinhardt, the Indiana ace, raced 45. yards for the only score for his 
... 
. ~ team after about five minutes of play. The score was made against the shock troops, but Coach Rockne did/ not insert the regulars until the shock troops scored. 
With the com~encerilent of the second quarter, Notre Dame showed power in a combined straight football and forward pass attack. Niemiec displayed much· of the power in the line bucking while :Morrissey and Chevigny showed to advantage in the passing and receiving. Niemiec went over the white line for the first Notre· Dame tally. 
After the score was adjusted to a level keel, Coach Rockne rushed in the so-called regular outfit, with the 
·exception of Flanagan who was not inserted into the game until the termination of the second period. Again the regulars immediately began to peel off long runs, 
I 
~l 

6 
and especially was this true of Collins and Flanagan. The second touchdown of the game for Notre Dame came after long runs by Collins and Flanagan; to wit there was a run for 30 yards by \Vhitey Collins. Flana­gan made the score by a jaunt of 20 yards. ' 
The offense of the Irish could not be stopped. Time and again, the sharp cutting backs of the Irish cut here and there for long and short gains; and likewise mixed up their playing by throwing forward passes when In­diana least expected them. The Texas Tenor likewise scored tht third touchdown after one unsuccessful drive down the field. 
For the 'eenth time, Notre. Dame, in lambasting In­diana, defeated a Conference team, which Notre Dame greatly rejoices in trouncing. Indiana had high hopes of stopping Notre Dame; they had stopped :Minnesota;· however, the same was not to be in this case. 
The Irish outplayed Indiana in straight football; they outsmarted the state school boys in other aspects of the game; and had the better of their opponents in kicking. It was a deserved victory for the Irish from every point of view..And the fact that it was a conference team made the cheese better cheese and more binding cheese. 


[ 27]. 
Football 'l{eview of 1927 
Notre Dame 26 Georgia Tech 7 
Six times the Golden Tornado of Georgia Tech came sweeping frrom the South with a long galaxy· of de­feated southern teams left in its wake; and six times the same Golden Tornado was repulsed in its attempts. In the chapter of football relations that have existed between Notre Dame and Georgia Tech records show tl1at Notre Dame has had the advantage. Records like­wise show that Notre Dame was the smarter team, the better ground gaining team, and had the -better record in the number of poin~s scored. To wit: I 3<1< to I 7. 
'The Golden Tornado came to Cartier Field with a squad of determined men: Captain Edgar. Crowley,. Papa Hood, and Shorty Thomason; and a record of all victories and no defeats. It returned, however, to its native Georgia with the former, but minus the latter for the Irish took the Southerners into camp by the score of 26 to 7. 
Due credit should be given the Georgia Tech men in the way they had tried to repulse the Irish. Only a really inspired and more capable team would have been 
able to turn t~1e played that day.  tide against  the  Irish· the way  they.  
Once again, Coach Rockne let the shock troops take the first bumps of the game. They did. ·And were scored · on again when Rockne had taken his entire first team out of the fray late in the game after his first team had run all over Georgia Tech.  
The Ole Kid Collins had the p·ower ·behind the punch that. placed the first and second touchdowns for Notre Dame over the goal line. He scored both touchdowns on a reverse. of pace after he had passed the primary defense of Georgia Tech's.  :/{ ( .. \ {  
The third touchdown for Notre Dame, a bit of strat­egy in signal calling, resulted after the Irish had worked the ball down into Georgia Tech territory. Riley worked a sneak play and caught a forward pass from Flana­gan. He raced ten yards for the touchdown.  
Elder made the touchdown for Notre Dame with the  
second team in the fray, after Randolph Tech had scored for the Sotitherners.  of  Georgia  


[ 28] 
l • \ •' ...-"/ I , ~ ~ • ~ • "• • • • ~ 
Football 'l{eview of 1927 
Golden Tornado Only a Breeze to Notre Dame B;1J JoHN W. STAHR South Bend Tribune 
The Georgia School of Technology's football team may be a Golden Tornado when it's blowing around down in Dixie, but when it comes up around northern Indiana, particularly Cartier field, of the domain of Notre Dame, it finds itself harnessed down to "just another southern breeze." 
The gold-jerseyed southern gentlemen from Atlanta found the force of habit-plus an increasingly capable Notre Dame team-too strong for them at Cartier field again yesterday afternoon and when they picked them­selves off the turf for the last time they knew they had tried again, as hard as ever, but had failed again, just as surely as ever, if not more so. The score was 26 to 7. 
There was a swiftness and a deception to the Notre 
· Dame attack ·ye"sterday that had not made its appearance before-in such deadly terms-all season, and several of the drives of the first string bunch down the field were marked by beautifully deceptive execution that even the staunchest Irish followers had not glimpsed before this season. One was led to believe that, when the Irish do get into some of the really tough pockets they'll run irito in the next few weeks, they'll be equipped :with plenty of fancy means for getting out of them. 
· Collins Gets Ambitious About 18,000 persons wended their way into Cartier field yesterday afternoon in the hope that Georgia Tech, backed by the best reputation that she has been backed .by since she became a fixture on the Notre Dame sched­ule, was at" last going to give. the Rockmen a real battle, and the 18,000 remained to marvel at the deadliness of the Rockne offensive thrusts, and to take notice of the capabilities of Mr. ,Fred (Whitey) Collins, who played his second varsity fullback role in two Saturdays and played it so well that his name hereafter may be printed -into the programs as one of the leading ladies. With Christy Flanagan, the Texan who has won not a few football games for Notre Dame-at least he has been quite a help-being almost bottled up by a Dixie defense that paid him very particular attention when he was conveying the pigskin, it was up to some­body else to do the breaking loose in behalf of the Notre Dame touchdown reputation, and Freddie· Collins nomi­nated himself· without fear or favor, scampering around left end 19 yards to the inaugural Irish six-pointer within a very few minutes after Rockne had sent his regulars into the fray at the start of period No. 2. 
Just Show Strong Offensive . Collins' touchdown ·followed one of those things uni­versally designated as a "march do\vn the field," which began simultaneously with the injecture of the Notre Dam~ first stringers at the outs~t of the second quarter. With the ball on the Irish 39-yard line, Collins plunged one ym·d to gain a first down, then the procession com­menced. Collins ripped off 12 yards around left end. A lateral pass play lost four yards, then Riley zipped a pass to . Dahman for. 23 yards· and the ball was on the Tech 29­y~rd line. Dahman sliced off tackle for 10 yards, and Collins went around left end again on a neat criss-cross play for the· touchdown. It was· high-powered offensive maneuvering, and it wasn't the only display of that na­ture in the day's entertainment, either. An intercepted pass by "Stumpy" Thomason, who ·did a number of things like that on defense but was completely stopped offensively, broke up another Notre Dame excursion to the Land of. Six Points later in the second period~ and some fine punting by Mizell aided in keeping the Men of Rock away from the Georgia. goal during the first half, and it ended 6 to 0. Voedisch Drops on· Ball But when an opportunity came their way early in the third quarter the Irish got their touchdo'vn in a very 
great hurry. Ike Voedisch dropped on the ball when a Tech center pass fell short on the Tech 25-yard line, and four brief plays later Collins squirmed across for his second score. 
A beautiful bit ·of open field sprinting, combined I with a neat bit of strategic daring, gave the Irish their Ithird touchdown a few minutes later, Charley Riley being the author of both the sprint and the stratagem. A couple of incomplete passes and a gainless line play had made it fourth down and 12 to go, but Charley, having read the fable of Robert Bruce and the spider, tried again. risking a forward pass when a punt was the logical move. 
He called the numbers that meant for Christy Flana­gan to throw him the ball just across the scrimmage line, Christy threw it to him, and then Charley started doing his stuff. He raced in and out among Tech players almost straight acrsos the field till he got in the clear, and then • those 10 lh second legs of his carried him away from the pack and he sprinted 25 more yards to cross the goal line. 
Tech Scores on Blocked Punt 
The second-string Notre Dame players began sifting back into the battle from that time on to the end. And the southerners grabbed hold of their one and only chance to score when a blocked punt gave them the ball on the Notre Dame seven yar~ line about the ·middle of the last quarter. A puzzling criss-cross and lateral pass­sent Randolph around to the one-yard line, and Stumpy Thomason did come through in the pinch, punching the ball across that· important 36 inches of turf on his first try. 
The reserves had an opportunity to effect an exact duplication of the feat a few minutes later when the guards, Mr. Law and Mr. Cannon, did the blocking and recovering, respectively, of a Georgia Tech punt on. the Tech six yard line. A penalty for offside and some in­effectual end runs, however, stopped them and they lost the ball on do,vns. 
But it wasn't "long before the second stringers ·were back there in touchdown territory again, eager to make up for their. failure. And they did,· with Billy Dew plunging across for·the final score of the day after Jack Chevigny and Jack Elder had· unreeled some thrilling end runs. The last touchdown occurred with ·less than a minute to play. 
Advantage All with Irish 
The total team gai:r:ts in yardages show an· extraordi­narily great advantage lying with the Irish. The net yardage gained from scrimmage, including losses, figures exactly 300 yards, as against a· net of 68 yards for the Golden Tornado, or Yellow Jackets, which is a ·more dis­creet title as far as yesterday's proceedings are concerned. · 
Christy Flanagan seemed to -be getting stopped with an .alarming suddenness on most of the occasions he toted the oval, and he never got away for a real long run, but at that he accounted for 50 of the 300 yards gained from scrimmage, and did it in· 12 attempts, .which means an average of: a little better than four yards at 
a~~ . 
Collins, of course, was the heavy ground-gainer for Rockne's team. Freddie carried the ball 11 times and turned in· a net profit of ·78 yards, giving him ·an average of seven and one-eleventh yards per attempt. Dew was used 11 times and gained 30 yards, while Chevigny gained 47 yards in 11 attempts. Dahman made 28 .yards in six carries, Riley two in three tries, Niemiec ·21 in four .tries, Bray 15 in three tries, and Elder 29 in six attempts. All these gains do not take .into consideration forward pass gains, the total of which for the Irish was 91 yards on six out of 12 heaves. 
[ 29] 
,:..·· 
• 
., ' 
Football. 'l{eview ·of 1927 
I 
I Minnesota Ties Notre Dame in Last Minute I 
By JOliN RICI\:OHD 
South. Bend N ew-'l'imes. 
I 
Faced with the bitter prospect of a third defeat in as many years at the hands of a Notre Dame football eleven, a powerful Minnesota team which_ would not ad­mit defeat beat Notre Dame at its own game in the last two minutes of an epochal struggle, by falling back upon the aerial game to score a touchdown after three thrusts at the Irish line had gained little yardage. 
This touchdown and the successful try for point 
which followed, tied the score at 7-7 and added the final 
dramatic touch which was needed to make the game one 
of the most spectacular ever staged on a gridiron. The 
27,000 fans who jammed the limited space in the Cartier 
field stands witnessed a thrill-packed battle to the finish 
between two of the most powerful football machines in 
the country. 
Played under conditions which were not conducive to good football, there was not a moment in the game which was uninteresting. Apparently unconscious of the biting cold and the frequent flurries of snow, the Irish and the Vikings fought with a courage and a tenacity which produced thrill after thrill for the benefit of the excited fans. Only the frequent fumbling, especially on the part of.Notre Dame, indicated that the players were affected by the adverse weather. 
Pass Brings Victory 
Herb J oesting, the crashing fullback of the Minnesota eleven, broke into the starring role only through the per­fectly timed pass which he hurled to ·walsh, Gopher end, as the latter crossed the Notre Darrie goal line. It was this pass which gave the Gophers their touchdown. Other­wise the work .of J oesting was not impressive, for he was able to make only short gains through the fighting Notre Dame· forwards. 
· Following the Gopher touchdown, the climax of the contest was furnished by Pharmer, a second-string back who specializes in kicking. 'With the score at 7-6, Notre Dame would be the victor if the try ·for the extra point failed. But Doc Spears sent Pharmer into the game and with an unerring toe, the black-haired back placed the ball between the posts. 
Then· did ·the Minnesota cheering section break forth into delirious shouts and cries of joy. The Fighting Irish had heen tied· on their own field for the first time in twenty-two years, a damper had been placed on the Irish .hopes: for a clear claim to the national football title, and Minnesota had gained at least partial revenge for the two defeats which Notre Dame had administered in the past 
two years. 
Irish-Score Early 
Notre Dame's marker came near the close of the first period of the game. Changing his mind about start­ing the second string, Rockne placed .the first team line and the. second string backfield on· the field at the begin­ning of the game. 
By thus outwitting Doc Spears, who sent his second string irito the game, the Irish had a big advantage during 
I.I. I 
' 
the first period, and but for two costly fumbles by 
"\V'ynne, who was playing his first game since the Navy 
encounter, they might have scored earJy in the period. 
The fumbles were recovered by Minnesota on. both occasions, however, and it was not until Collins. had re­'I placed ·wynne and Riley had gone in for McKinney at 
I·
quarter that the Irish could score. 
I. 
A break of the game gave them th.e ball on the Min­nesota 16-yard line when Captain Johnny Smith of Notre· .1 Dame dropped on the ball after Hovde fumbled Niemiec's kick. On the first play, Riley sent Niemiec around his 
1
own right end for a touchdown as the Irish interferers smothered the Gopher defense. .-r 
!
Niemiec's successful try for the extra point gave .the 
I ' 
Irish a seven-poirit advantage which they retained· until a mistaken signal resulted in a loose ball which was hastily covered by the alert Haycraft, Gopher left end, on the Notre Dame 19-yard line. 
·with about three minutes remaining, tries . at the line by Almquist, Hovde and J oesting advanced the ball only two yards. Then Joesting dropped back, the Notre 'Dame secondary defense spread out to break up the expected pass and the play seemed doomed. 
But Walsh, Gopher right end, eluded Niemiec ami received the ·ball from Joesting three steps across the goal line. Pharmer's kick followed and the game· was over so far as scoring was concerned. 
Notre Dame received the kick-off, and tried three passes, all of which failed, in an effort to score again. But the game ended as Niemiec was thrown for a loss be­fore .he could toss the ball on .the last attempt. 
Fumble Hurt Irish 
Offensively they also played well, and opened good holes for the backs, but repeated fumbles prevented the Irish from making any sustained drive on the Gopher
goal. 
After the Notre· Dame touchdown, Spears put his first team on the field and the two teams battled evenly for the remainder.of the first half, but in the second period, the Gophers had a slight advantage over the Irish, .and shortly after the 'opening of the. fourth period, they. had the ball on Notre Dame's one-yard line, and had one down left in which to take it over. But a hard shoestring tackle by Chevigny dropped Almquist for a loss, and Niemiec. pt,mted. the oval· out of the danger zone. 
In the third quarter, with the wind to his back, Alm­quist resorted to the kicking game. Repeatedly he kicked on the first down and usually the ball sailed over Riley's head and far down· the field. As Dahman was doing the kicking for Notre Dame at this· period, the Gophers gained ·much ground through Almquist's powerful kick­ing. His kicks were matched by those of Niemiec, how­ever, for the' Notre Dame back got off some boots that sailed for 50 and 60 yards. · · 
Flanagan once got away for a 45-yard run, but he fumbled. the· ball when tackled. This was the longest 
run of the game. · 
[ 30.]  
! I -l  
l ~  
.  '  ..  - - :  .  - .  .  - . .  "­ '  ~  ..  . .  -­ ~ -....  '  ..,  ., ..  "-~  

Football 'l{eview of 1927 
Notre Dame 7 Minnesota 7 
Irish eyes. were smiling as the last few minutes of the final quarter ticked away. Notre Dame was 'in the lead, 7 to 0; and the Irish had just held :Minnesota for downs in the shadow of the Irish goal posts. Niemiec dropped back to punt formation; and Riley called a line play to use up the remaining time which lte understood from the officials to ·be 15 seconds. The backfield misunder­stood the signals,· and the ball was lobbed halfway be­tween the center and Niemiec. Before Niemiec had a chance to dart up and get it, Nagurski the Gopher guard, broke through and recovered the ball on the fifteen yard line. 
Thrc.c times the "Northcrn Thunderbolt" .J oesting, smashed the Irish line, and three times he was repulsed for no gain. On the fourth down, he drifted back and hurled a forward pass. Out of the dusk came the ball; hurled from Notre Dame's 22-ynrd line, it sped with bullet-like swiftness into the nrms of '\Valsh, the Gopher right end. Doc Spears then inserted Pharmer, who promptly booted the ·ball between the uprights to give :Minnesota a tie. 
From the kickoff to the last play, there wns no let-up in this thrill-packed battle. The. old guard was unani­mous in. saying that it was the most spectacular football game ever staged on historic Cnrtier Field. 
Notre Dame scored in the. first quarter when the Min­nesota safety man fumbled n punt which was recovered by Captain "Clipper" Smith. On the n~xt play Niemiec scooted 18 yards around right end for a touchdown and 
then added the extra point. . 
From this point until :Minnesota scored, the two teams 
battled up and down the chalk lined field on even terms. 
Neither team could gain consistently through. the line. 
Notre Dame stopped J oesting, and :Minnesota stopped 
Chris Flanagan except .for one 30 and another I 5-yard gallop. The statistics show that Flanagan · outgained All American Joesting. 
The Minnesota Daily claimed a victory on first downs, but first. downs in deciding the outcome of a football game arc like foul balls-they go for ten cents a thou­sand. Quoting from the official football rules we find that: "The game shall be decided by the final score at the end of the four periods." 
In I92'1 when Notre Dame won the National Cham­
pionship by defeating Stanford 27 to I 0, "Pop'' '\Varner 
was showing "Rock" how Stanford had really won· the 
game on first downs when "Rock" interrupted with: "I 
hear they are going to 'decide the world's series next 
year ·by th~ number of men left on bas~s." 
Notrc Drime supporters are so accustomed to win­
ning that they consider a tie game as a lost game. The game will be played over and over this winter in the Hot Stove League, but regardless of nil arguments ad-. . '"anced pro ~md con the fact remains that the classic ended with each temn having seven points and it will go 
down on the football records as a tie game. 


[ 31 ] 

/ 
Football Cf{eview of 1927 

Army , 18 Notre Dame 0 
Scoring n greater number of first downs but lacking in its usua·l style of smart football, Notre Dame lost its fourth game out of fourteen starts to th~ seasoned veterans of the Army at theYnnkee before n maddening crowd of 75,000 people. 
The Army drew blood in the early few moments of t~1e game when after an exchange of punts, Cagle broke through the primary .Notre Dame defense and with splendid interference evaded the secondary defense and ran half the distance {)f the field for the first touch­down. 
The try for point was missed, and then Conch Roc,kne yanked the sho'ck troops who had failed in their purpose to hold the Army team and take the first knocks. From that point until 'the termination of the second quarter the play was rather uncertain for ·both teams. 
Notre Dame flushed its nationally known style of straight football toward the end of the second quarter · when it marched a distance of seventy yards toward the Army goal line. However, here the team differed from other Irish teams in that it was unable to punch the ball across for the six point tally, and consequently lost the ball on downs. 
The commencement of the third period found the Irish rooters certain of a reversal of form for their favorites. 

However, due perhaps to the powerful Minnesota outfit that had been met the previous Saturday, and due to the fact that all the breaks of the game were going in the direction of the Army, the Irish continued holding their own and in straight football were able to out-score the Army in first d_owns. 
'In the third quarter, with the ,ball about in mid-field, Nave, the Army quarterback, intercepted an Irish for-. ward pass and raced the remainder of the field for the second touchdown; and again Army missed the try for point. In the final quarter of the game, Cagle inter­cepted one of the many passes that were being hurled and ra·ced about 30 yards for the third and final touch­down of the game. 
The final score, I 8 to 0, in justice to both Army and Notre Dame, does not indicate the ·closeness of this struggle. l\Iuch could be said about individual stars: the sterling work of Captain Smith who played the entire· game; the work of Colerick, 'Valsh, Miller, Riley, Brady, and Collins. However, ·by saying that the entire team as a whole played the Army on even terll?-s in one phase of the game; and outplayed the Army in another phase of the game would be plaCing credit where credit · is due. 

l 
•j 
i 
I 
I 
'f 
'l 
·~ 
I 
I 
1 
l· 
[ 32] 
I 
I 
I 
I 
_l I 
-~ 
Football CJ{cview of 1927 


Army Defeats Notre Dame at Yankee .Stadium 
B.IJ J Al\lES R. HARRISON,l . . 
New Y orlc Times. 
A red-headed halfback, who plods along only a trifle faster than that ancient sprinter, Mercury, wrote· finis across the championship aspirations of the Notre Dame football team yesterday afternoon as a keen Army team ground the Indiana "Irish" into the faded green turf of the Yankee Stadium. 
The fiee't-footed lad· in· question is carried on the official records as ·Christian K. Cagle, but up at the Point he is better known as plain, ordinary Red. He was the hero of a _game that abounded in heroes. 
In the first quarter he dashed forty-eight yards for a touchdown with zest and abandon, and from that blow Notre Dame, reeling and hurt, never recovered. Near the end of the game Chris~ian K. Cagle grabbed a beauti­ful fonvard pass and scampered fifteen or twenty yards more, again ending up behind the Notre Dame goal line -just to prove that the first episode was not an accident. 
The Army got the breaks, but most of th~m were due to the alertness and keenness of Coach Biff Jones' superb eleven. Against many another team Notre Dame might have held the damage down to 6-0 or, conceivably, to a tie sc'o1·e,· but the Hoosiers made mistakes and the Cadets capitalized every one of them, and there you have 
. the story of this fourteenth meeting of ·west Point and South Bend. 
In the first period there happened an incident typical of the entire game. On the fourth down Army, failing to gain, kicked to the Notre Dame 20-yard line, but the Hoosiers were off-side. The pigskin was brought back and Army got a first down on the 48-yard line. 
· The Cadets had surrendered the ball once, but here it was back in their possession, and what a difference that little fact made in the fortunes of this bitterly-fought battle! For, a minute later, Cagle· was off on a long journey around the right flank of the Notre Dame battle­front. Some journeys may end, as the poet.said, in lovers' meetings, hut this particular ex.cursion terminated satis­factorily in a touchdown and six large points. 
The Notre Dame players put up an energetic com­plaint, alleging that Cagle had stepped out. of bounds. They ran to the sideline and pointed accusingly at an alleged foot print, but Referee O'Brien threw their case out of court. 
And froni that point on ·Notre Dame was a beaten team, even though it surged back fiercely, savagely. The Indiana "Irish" put up a wonderful display of sheer· courage and raw fighting ability, but their own eagerness 
.was their undoing, as witness that fatal off-side penalty when the Army momentarily had conceded .defeat and was surrendering the ball. , 
Red Cagle's ,18-yard run had turned the trick, and later happenings were interesting but not vitally im­portant. In the third period, Notre Dame, passing des­perately in an attempt to overcome that six.;.point lead, let loose an aerial fling which Billy Nave, the Army quarterback, intercepted. Having a clear field ahead of him, the Cadet ran sixty yards for another touchdown, and . no Hoosier as much as laid a finger on him. · 
·In the fourth period Red Cagle· broke loose again. With the ball on Notre Dame's 32-yard line, Hutchinson flipped a pass to Red, who was out in the open with absolutely no company, and sped about 15 yards with a belated Notre Dame tackler chugging along in his wake. 
· Paradoxical as it may seem, the best concerted and sustained offensive of the afternoon· was put on by the losing team. In the second period, with the minutes speeding fast, the slumbering g~ant from· South Bend stretched his arms drowsily, yawned and awoke. And for the next five minutes the fighting "Irish" put on an at­tack which was literally beautiful to watch.. 
Forward passes, deftly tossed, filled the air. Notre Dame backs sliced through the line, punched a path off tackle, turned the ends-all of them moving with speed and drive and precision, behind perfectly timed inter­ference. It was a· great sight. Here was Rockne at his best. And the attack stormed its way to the 8-yard line, 
· having traveled 72 yards in an incredibly short time. 
Here the Ar~y defense stiffened and. refused to yield another foot and Notre Dame's great opportunity went a-glimmering. Never again during the afternoon were the Hoosiers to rise to that same height. It was as if they had given .everything they had in that one magnifi­cent pyrotechnical display; · 
True, they reached the 5-yard line in the last .minute of play, with a fine exhibition of the art of forward pass­ing, but by that time it was much too late for the men of 
·Rockne· to pull themselves out of. a deep, deep hole. The final whistle blew as the "Irish" were struggling desper­
ately toward the goal line. , · 
Notre Dame men could console themselves last ·night by pointing out what might have been, if. a few things had only happened differently, but it is true, neverthe~ less, that the better team won. Arid this, despite the fact that Notre Dame made twelve first downs to Army's
eight. 
Smartness was the keynote of the Army offense and defense. The Cadets went at their work with more sure­ness, more adroitness and more intelligence than did the Midwesterners. They made fewer mistakes by far than Notre Dame. Incidentally, the Army yesterday was about 50 per cent better than the team which lost to· Yale. 
Two of Notre Dame's great faults we1:e weak tackling and failure to protect against the interception of for­ward passes. Has Rockne been neglecting. the tackling dummy lately? Time after time Army back were trapped far behind the line of scrimmage, but, instead of being tossed for a 10-yard loss, they would wriggle loose and dash away for a 10-yard gain. . . 
"With every seat in the vast horseshoe filled, the Sta­dium presented a striking picture as the corps of Cadets paraded onto the field thirty minutes before game time. Entering from the north gate, headed by their hand, the future generals marched once around the· field and then halted in platoon formation on the gridiron while the crowd gave them a cheer right from the heart. 
James J. ·walker, mayor of this village, was one of those who watched the big parade of the Cadets. During the second half he :moved over and sat with Father Matthew ·walsh, head of Notre Dame, but the Mayorfailed to bring any luck with him. · 
The statistics of the game do not go far to interpret Army~s victory. Notre Dame made twelve first downs to Army's eight, while the perfect execution of several of the South Bend forward passes in the final period which 
.netted many yards were of no value in the final reckon­ing in comparison with the few passes wide-awake Army players intercepted and turn~d into .scoring plays. 
... Three touchdowns~one in the first period, another in the third and still another in the final round-..:sent 80,000 p·ersons away from the park convinced that the Notre Dame football team is only human, after all, and that Knute Rockne, though a master magician, now and then can not pull· a rabbit out· of an empty hat. 
[ 33] 
)I 

't, \ 
Football CJ{eview of 1927 



i I Shock Troops Defeat Drake 
i 
By E. c. LYTTON 
. i 
D£!s 1lloines Correspondent. 
; 
Coach Knute Rockne's Fighting Irish from Notre Dame put a terrific crimp in the tail of the Drake Uni­versity. bulldog here this afternoon when they clearly outplayed the Drake gridders in every department of the game to win handily by the score of 32-0. Notre Dame put over touchdowns in the first, third and fourth quarters, and counted twice in the second period. 
Coach Rockne, who, previous to the game, had ex­pressed concern as to how his team would come back after their defeat at the hands of Army has real reason for elation. For Notre Dame came back with a venge­ance as soon as the opening whistle blew, blasting Drake . hopes early in the first quarter and setting a pace that was far too fast for their opponents today and one. that, if maintained, threatens disaster for the University of Southern California, at Chicago, next Saturday. 
Drake Hand.icapped 
Drake was handicapped throughout the game by the absence of "Chad" Pettibone, right end, who is suffering from influenza. As a result, Coach Ossie Solem sent Jack Barnes, first string quarterback, ~in at right ~nd for Drake, with Barney Meyers playing at Barnes' usual quarterback position. Barnes was injured early in the game a'nd was replaced by Dick Zvacek. 
· Notre Dame's first score came early in the· first period with Rockne's shock troops leadin_g the preliminary at­tack, as usual. At this time the Irish secured the ball on Drake's 35-yard line after ·an exchange of punts. Niemiec, who started at left half for Notre Dame, then took the ball and running behind perfect interference, skirted Drake's flank for a touchdown. A moment,later Niemiec kicked goal and the score stood Notre Dame 7, Drake 0. · 
Irish Score Again
. . 
Early in the second period Notre Dame worked the 
ball down to Drake's 22-yard line, when Fullback Collins smashed . off left tackle and ran through_ the Drake sec­.ondary defense to the Drake two-yard line. Collins then crashed right guard for. a touchdown, but the ball was called back when both teams were offside. A forward pass from Elder to Coleric, over the Drake goal line, was then good for a to.uchdown and Elder place-kicked 
for the extra point. 
Shortly after this Drake threatened to score when a long forward pass to Meyers was successful and the ball was· carried deep into Notre Dame's territory. Coach Rockne then inserted Riley, Flanagan, and other first string men into the game. However, danger was averted when Elder speared an attempted Drake pass on Notre Dame's five-yard line and raced 95 yards for a touch­down. It was one of the prettiest runs seen at the Drake stadium in many years. The try for goal failed and the half ended shortly thereafter with the score standing Notre Dame 20, Drake 0. 
Drake Fumbles 
Notre Dame took advantage of an opportunity to score in the third period when Drake fumbled the ball on the 20-yard line and the ~rish recovered. A forward pass Riley to Dahman, was good for a touchdown, but the ~tte~pt to kick goal failed. 
with the· first string backfield out of the game, the Rambling Rocks scored their fifth touchdown in the final quarter when Prelli took the ball. on Drake's 20-~ard line and skirted left end on a beautiful run. Elder failed to kick goal. · · 
Notre Dame, 32; Drake,· 0. 
Througho'ut the third and fourth periods, Drake at­tempted many desperate forward passes in an attempt to score, but these either were incomplete or were inter­cepted by Notre Dame. The Irish followed the ball like hawks and the Bulldogs did not have nearly so much success with forward passes as they had against Minnesota. 
Drake Passes Fail 
Drake had two good chances to score when Barney Meyers snagged forward passes, with practically an open field between himself and. the enemy goal. However, Collins made a beautiful race from behind to down Meyers when he almost got away in the second period, 1rom the Notre Dame warriors as he raced for their goal line. 
For Notre Dame, Collins, Flanagan; Wynne, Colerick, McKinney, Moynihan, Brady, Niemiec and Chevigney, played brilliant football. However, several Notre Dame stars were hardly in the game long enough to have an opportunity to distinguish themselves. 
Irish Outclass Bulldogs 
For Drake, Captain Bill Cook, Zvacek, Meyers, Del­mege and Simpson played a fine game. Throughout the game, Drake could not seem to get started against the Irish on offense, while on defense Notre Dame ripped the line, threw forward passes and ran the ends against Drake with abandon, so that the score is a fair indication of the comparative ·merits of the two teams as they played today. 
With .the exception of Niemiec who was injured in the .first quarter, the Notre Dame warriors came through the game in good shape. Elmer ·wynne has regained his old form after recovering from the injury received in the Navy game, and all the regulars received a well needed rest. The way Rockne's boys performed today, Southern California will have plenty of competition next Saturday when they meet the Irish in the nation's grid­iron classic at Soldiers' Field. Coach Rockne was very optimistic abo1,1t the impending struggle as he boarded the train for South Bend. · · 
Statistics of the Game 
Drake Notre Dame 
Kickoffs .................................................. 1 6 Kickoffs .................................................. 1 6 Yards on kickoffs ................................·.... 60 275 Yards returned on intercepted passes.. 0 1l0 Yards returned kickoffs ........................ 93 0 Yards gained scrimmage ........................ 50 270 First downs ............................................ 2 11 Yards lost in scrinimage ........................ 23 8 Number of punts ............................~....... 11 9 Yards totaled on punts .......................... 448 307 Kicks offs ........ .-....................................... 1 6 .Total yards punts returned....~··············· 18 44 Attempted forward passes .................... 19 7 Pas-ses completed .................................... . 3 6 Yards gained on passes .......................... 92 41 Passes incomplete ............ :..................... 13 0 Passe.s intercepted by.............................. 1 3 Penalties .................................................. 4 9 Yards lost on penalties .......................... 30 62 
Fumbles .........~ .........................................·. . 5 · 0 
Fumbles recovered ................................ 4 1 
Punts blocked· ........................................ 0 1 
Field goals attempted ................... ·......... .1 0 
[ 31·] 
t t" ,• / 1 ~ : I > ' , ­
Football 'l{eview of 1927 
Notre Dame 32 
Drake 
The gridiron version of "The Big Parade" was enacted in Des Moines with Knute Rockne directing and Elder, Niemiec· and Prelli playing the principal roles. The first team being tired nfter their terrific game the Saturday previous with the Army, Rock de­cided to rest them up andhy using the second team, to find out just what he· would have in the way of material when the 1928 football season rolls around. 
Judging from the· manner in which the second and third teams performed, Rock has no reason to worry about the strenuous schedule he has .mapped out for next year. The Dean of Coaches smiled happily when .Tack Elder, "the _flying cloud," intercepted a pass and sprinted 90 yar'ds a la Layden for a touchdown, cover­ing the distance. in about nine seconds. The Kentucky Colonel promises to be another horseman. Butch Niemiec ~riced 35 yards for a touchdown after shaking off half a dozen am·bitious tacklers. Jim Brady, understudy to Riley, called his ..plays like a veteran and was par­ticularly brilliant in returning punts. Billy Dew smashed the line for steady gains and· Fred Collins caused sev­eral .slject'ators to exclaim: "'Vhere's the cannon?" Jack Chevigny also contributed some nice gallops and 
· played a stellar defensive game. Law, :McGrath, · .Moynihan, Colerick and Cannon .were the outstanding linemen. 
Scarcely had the game started when Niemiec on a ·. --::--beautiful run of 35 yards deposited the ball behind the Bulldog's goal posts for the first Notre Dame touch­
0 
down. Elder passed· to Col erick, the demon pass re­ceiver, for the second score after a long march down the field. Elder snared a Drake pass on hi_s own ten­yard line and squirmed, twisted and dodged his way through the entire Drake team and ran 90 yards for the third. touchdown. A pretty pass, Riley to Dahman, was responsible for the fourth and J oc Prelli slid off left tackle for 18 yards to make the final touchdown of the day. 
Notrc Dame.'s offensive was smooth, well timed and had the coordinated i>recision that was lacking in the Army. game. Every one of the players who made the trip saw action and if the rules had allowed for a play.:. ing coach, Rock himself might have taken up his old wing. position. The question of the hour as far as the spectators were concerned. was where arc they all com­ing from? Three Des :Moines newspaper men were carted off in an ambulance after an unsuccessful attempt to keep track of the substitutions. . 
Notrc Dame's passing attack worked well, the Irish completing six passes out of seven attempts. End runs and off tackle smashes were particularly effective, the Irish gainirig at will. Notre Dame experienced no trouble in breaking up Drake's vaunted aerial game. 
The older members of the cast saw action for only a short time~ Riley, Flanagan, Dahman and 'Vynne almost wrecked the Drake forward wall during their few minutes of play. 


[ '35] 

·I I 
:I 
1:,, [I II
li 
[! 
Football· 'l{eview of .1927 

Notre Dame· 7 
U~ S. c~ 
The name of "Bucky" Dahman was inscribed in the :mnals of Notre Dame's immortals at the·close of the gre:tt intersectional game at Soldiers Field. For it was Dahman's spectacular catch of a forward pass 28 yards down the field from. Charley Riley that gave the Irish the necessary six points to tie the score. And it was Dahman's well placed kick tha:t sent the ball flying be­tween the goal posts for the precious seventh point that proved to be the margin of victory. 
After both teams had scored early in the first quarter 
· the game settled down to a battle of lines, and in this important angle, honors were aboUJt even. If anything the shade rested with Notre Dame who made eleven first downs, to eight for the Tro]ans. Notre Dame' gained I 99 yards from scrimmage while the western invaders made I37.· Notre Dame completed two for­wurd pusses for. 1thirty-one yards and the Trojans con­nected with three aeriul heaves for a crain of 18 yards. 
Christy Flanugun closed his colle!iate footbdll uc­tivitics by playing· the greutest gum~ of his brilliunt career. Chris uveraged five yards every time he took the ball and several times came dancrerously close to breaking :nvay for a touchdown. Elm~r \Vynne l;acked up the line in his usual flawless munner and was a power on offense. Cl~arley Riley with crippled knees gamely played the entire game, out-smarting the Trojans. The entire Notre Dame line played great football. 
~Iorlcy Drury, the flashy Trojan halfback proved himself to be an all-around star. Drury wa; equ~lly · 
6 
effective in. crashing the .line, smashing off taekle or skirting the ends. On the defensive he nailed· Flanagan several times when it looke"d as. if Chris was going places. Drury, truly ·an All-American, was a constant menacing threat. 
The Notrc Dame eleven proved its right to be called t'1e "Fighting Irish"· byeoming .from behind to win; A less courageous outfit might have been demoralized bv the first rush of the Trojans. But the only effect notic~­able was that it caused the "Fightirig Irish" to get down to .busi~ess and forge inlto the lead inimedia:tely. · . The U. S. C~ game closed the football careers of "Clipper ·Smith, Elmer .vVynne,' ~'Bucky'' . Dahman, 
.Chris Flanagan, Charley Riley, ".Jke" Voedisch, "Chile" lValsh, John Poliskey,. J olm Fredericks ".Toe" Benda ".Jim" Hurlbert, ".Joe" Morrissey, Fr~nk ~IcCa~thy; ".Ioe" Prelli, "Chunk" ~Iurrin, "Joe" Nash .John Do"'arn 
and "Tom" Byrne. ' ' 
The U. S. C. game ·marked the first invasion ·of a leading western team and it was enough to crive the :Middle \Vest a wholesome respect for the footb~ll ~a.mc as .practiced on the Pacific coast~ It 'vas the thirl vic­tory for Notre Dame .over a coast eleven, the Irish having defeated U. S. C. last year ia to I 2 and Stan­ford 2•1 to 10 in. 192•1. :The game also broke the at­~~ndance record, the total attendance ·being 120,000. I he game ended :the hardest schedule that the Irish have eve·r attempted and with a record of SC\'en won ont! tied and one lost Notre Dame .terminated :m~ther glor~ous season. 
j 


[36) 

Football 'l{eview of 1927 

Irish. Close Season with Victory over U. S. C. 
By \\7ALTER Eci\.ERSALL 
Chicago Tribune 
In the presence of 117,000 enthusiastic fans, Notre Dame defeated Southern California yesterday on Sol­diers Field, 7 to 6, in the greatest intersectional football game ever played in this country. . . . The crowd was treated to some splendid line crashing, end running, and beautifully executed forward passes. It also saw hard tackling and blocking by some of the nation's leading players. .The spectators saw Capt. Morley Drury of the Trojans and Christy Flanagan of Notre Dame tear off the tackles, smash into the line, and block in a manner that stamped them two of the greatest backs on the college gridiron. · 
Those fighting Irish never gaye an inch .when their goal line was threatened and they forced the Trojans to forward pass when close to the goal. These passes either were intercepted or went for touchbacks. The only ex­ception 'yas the one in the opening period which resulted in the Trojans' lone score. · 
Flanagan Biggest Gainer . In the matter of individual play, Flanagan of Notre Dame had the edge. He carried the ball 124 yards in twenty-two attempts .and Morley Drury of California ·'toted. the oval 100 yards in twenty-eight attempts. Dahman of Notre Dame averaged 44.5 yards on his punts and Drury and Hibbs 49 yards. Notre Dame was penalized four times for a total of twenty· yards and the Trojans were guilty of fouling on two o'ccasions for the ·same number of yards.· · After both elevens had scored in the opening period and Southern California had failed to score the extra point after touchdown, which gave Notre Dame a one point lead, a play carne up in the .third period which caused some dispute. The decision,· although questioned by Capt. Drury and the other Southern California players; was correct. . The decision hinged on a question of judgment as to whether the ball was in control and possession of Riley, the Notre Dame quarterback who had intercepted a. Southei·n~ California fo·rward ·pass. :·The '1'roj_m1s ·;'4ad worked.·= the :ball ·deep: into~· Notre· Dame·· territory .but were held· to: small' yardage· close to the-Ramblers' ·goal in three.-downs: . · 
: ~ 
· .·Disputed.Play Explained · · · As a 'last ,i·es.oi:t~ Southern ·California·attempted a: for­ward pass~ .. ~iley of. Notre .Dame .le~ped into;. the air.:in an effort to. cat'ch. the· ball.· A fraCtion of asecond after he caught· it. h.e was ~ackled ..by· a T_i·ojan _player arid the . ball struck ·in the end zone and .rolled· over the· end line. A touchba-ck ahvays ·results· when the ball on.._~ny. incom­plete forward-pass strikes ·the ground in. the end zpne. The officials,: who were on top of· the play;· ruled that Riley did ·not· have the ·ball: in his· possession an~· un·der controL· Consequently· the play went .as ·a totichback·and 
the ball was brought out ·to Notre Dame's hventy-yard line were_ it'·.;vas. put .in play~ by· ~he .Rockn~· el_ev~·n. . · Capt. "D1;ury of Southern· .California .anp his players asserted Riley had control and possession Of the ball·a_nd then fumbled. :If this had been the· ca_se,: SoutP.e1:n. Cali­fornia would have beert' given:: a· safety and ~wo·-points, .which ._would:· have :reversed· the: r~sulfjnto ·:a_tl-'8 .to· 7 
victory f~r ._the ..Ti·ojans.: '· 
·~ · : ' -f~·o}~ns S~o~e-First · · ·· -. . . As 'the :g·~me: stai·ted< ·out:: '.jf: looked; as ::i( S()uthei·~1 California-would. win by a one-sided -score., :N.otre pame received: the· ·opening: kick..:off ·but 'vas _unable to. gain. 
,. 
I Elder .punted. oufof .bounds.in .niidfield and i.t:was .then that the powe1;ful· atta.ck "of· the ·Ti.-ojans ..as·s.ei-ted ·itself.
' 
Capt. Drui~y :went to· '\vork ·.and, practically ·unaided, took 1-· the oval to-the Notre·Dame-eleven-yard·line.. The. Tr_ojan captain' crashed· th1~ough his· 1:ight · guar·d 'for·fou'r yin~ds,
I 
j 
sliced off his left tackle for two more, and on the next play broke loose off his right tackle and ·was forced out of bounds by Elder of Notre Dame on the Ramblers' eleven-yard line. 
Edelson then went through his right guard for two yards and Drury hit the same spot for two more. On the next play Drury was stopped without gain. An un­balanced line formation· then was called from the huddle. It started as a running play with the ball being passed to Drury, who faked a run by taking a few steps. Morley stopped suddenly and then shot a forward pass to Russell Saunders, the Trojan back,. who had raced clear of the Notre Dame secondary defense and caught the oval on the goal line. 
r 
. Abad pass spoiled Drury's effort to register the extra point by a placement kick. The score was 6 to .0 in favor of the Trojans and Coach Rockne of Notre Dame then made his first substitutions. Dahman. took Che­vigny's place in the back field. Flanagan replaced Elder and Riley relieved Brady at quarterback. 
Notre Dame received the following kickoff and Capt. Drury of Southern California kicked off to Flanagan who returned to the Notre Dame thirty-five yard line. Flana­gan and Collins made nine yards on line drives and Dahman failed in another line thrust. Dahman punted out of bounds on his forty-yard line, but Southern Cali­fornia was guilty of illegal use of the hands and was 
penalized fifteen  yards.  ·  
Dahman Punts  Out  of Bounds  
The  penalty placed  the  oval  in  midfield. Flanagan  

failed to gain off his right tackle but on the next play drove straight through .his left tackle. on a delayed plunge for six yards. Collins was sent at the same spot for two more yards and then Dahman punted and the ball was downed on the Trojans' five-yard line. 
Drury was nailed for a two-yard loss· when he. at­tempted to ·sweep the Notre Dame left end. On the fol­lowing· plaY-the ·Southern California· captain· purited to Riley_ ·who-slippe4 and fell as -he ·caught· the· oval on ·his forty-eight yard mark... , . . 
Notre· Dame. then. went .to-work. · Flanagan drove straight through his .left tackle· for three yards.. On the next play h_e ·fo~nd a~ openi~g th1~ough hi~ .right guard and galloped to the Trojans' forty-yard' line. -Flanagan and .Riley carried the~ ball to· the coast-eleven's twenty­eight yard line on a series of ·line plays. A running forward pass, Riley to Flanagan, was incompleted. · 
On the next play, a complicated one in which Riley faked the ·ball to Flanagan and Collins and then ran back ten yards, . a forward_ pa_ss. was hurled .by .Riley to Dahman, :who crossed .the goal line for a touchdown. The pass .,vas.. made ··over .Saunders; the Trojan back. Not .satisfied. with. scoring the six points for the touch­down,. Dahman. scored. the extra pqint by·. kicking the goal from placement,· making the score 7 to 6 in favor of Notre 'Dame.. · 
Tha"t .ended the sco.ring. of. the· great game. Late in the second.· qu.arter,-·Southern· Californ~ri. threatened · when Saunders' forward pass-from the ·Notre Dame eleven-yard line .was ·iricompleted·. -The Trojans again c·ame close to scoring· iri ·the thh;d quai·ter,·. whe~ a for.ward pass was intercepte~ _by Riley· and afterward· went as _a touchback. 
Notre Dame. h~d ·the~·-wind. adylmt~ge ·. i~ the fourth quarte1~-imd thi·eatened to s·core-on three occasions. The Ramblel's. to·ok~.the ball to· the ·Trojans' ·thirty-two: yard line, ,vh.ere they were forced ·to kick and again to South­ern Califor-nia's twenty-eight yard mai·k, where Flanagan fumbled:· Ne·ar. the. close· of the: final period,-Notre Dame advanced -to Southern. California's seventeen:.yard line after Dahnian ·had intercepted aTrojan forward pass. 
I 
I 
[ 37] 
I 
I 
I 
I 
L­
('~ ~~ 
~.'.I 
:(1..
!1
llj 
j, i[! i\ 
\.\\ 
:II 
,,j;l 
:I 
)I 
i'' 
Football 'l{eview of 1927 
Notre Dame's Football Immortals 
B.1J GE.ORGE TnEvon 0 f the N e'W y or!~ Sun. 
All Time Notre Dame Elevens 
First Team Pos. Second Team 
·walsh --------------------------Center·----------------------Feeney Edwards -----------------------.Guard ------------------------Dolan 
H. Anderson ----------------Guard ------------------------Mayer Dimmick -----------'-----------Tackle ------------------Philbrook Shaw ----------------------------Tackle ------------------------Wieb Rockne ------------------------End --------------------------KileyFarley -~----·-----------~----------End ------------~-------Matthews Dorais ~---:·-------------"·-----Quarter ------------Stuhldreher 

Gipp ---------------------------­
H. :Miller ---------------------­Salmon -----------------------­
\Vhen sycam~res whisper under a pale Indiana. moon 
they tell the epic story of George Gipp, Notre Dame's 
immortal halfbnck. This roll call of Hoosier stars con­
tains many a legendary name, ·but all of them· pale 
before the luminous radiance that was Gipp. Blazing 
fiercely like a meteor not long destined to dazzle earthly 
eyes, George Gipp flamed across Ndtrc Dame's football · horizon for a fleeting span, yet in those golden moments he -\\·o,;c the brilliant thread of his personality into the 
warp and woof of Hoosier gridiron history. 
Along with Gipp in Notre Dame's all time backfield we find those two memorable "brick tops"-"Rcd" l\Iillcr and "Red" Salmon. It was Harry Miller's unfor­ge~tablc slashes off tackle that conquered l\fichigan in 1909 after the \Volvcrincs had beaten Pennsylvania and l\Iinnesota. "Red" l\Iillcr was a contemporary of Ted Coy's. Some critics rated him the equal of Yale's lnm:tan locomotive. Next to Gipp, "Red" l\Iillcr stands out as Notrc Dame's most effective ·ball carrier. Not as fast or as powerful as .Gipp, Harry l\Iillcr was even more elusive. 
Lou SALMON 
Lou Salmon is enshrined i~ Notre Dame's Pantheon as the first South Bender to catch \Valter Camp's eye. Salmon was a pile driving lin~ smasher of· the knock down and drag 'em out era. Every Notre Damer has heard of Salmon. He is one of those legendary figures whose fame grows with the passing years. Salmo~'s reputation is richly deserved. Not even Layden or Eichenlaub could hit a line as lustily as the Red Prince of plungers. At Toledo in 1902, Salmon alone came ncar beating l\Iichigan's matchless point.:.a-minute team. Severity-yard punts were not . uncommon with Salmon. On· defense he was a team in himself. In 1903 he held Nortlnvcstcrn for downs twice in the shadow of his goal posts. 
Elmer Layden, the real brains of the Four Horse­men, earns the fullback berth on team B. Layden had Back --------------·········· '\Vynne
Back ...................... Castner Back ----------------------Layden 
a chess mind.· His running action was as smooth as oiled silk. .Elmer hit a line with his nose scraping the turf; He could r·un' the 220 in close'to record time. and trim sprinters in the "century," yet it is as a line plunger and defensive genius that he is known to fame. Inter­cepti~g enemy passes was Layden's specialty. Heaves into his territory were boomerangs sure enough, since Elmer reveled in converting them into touchdowns. For consistency in punting, Layden has never had a superior.. 
Ra'' Eiche~laub was the biO"O"est of Notrc Dame's 
~ bb . 
fullbacks. 'Vhcn he hit a line, something had to give. He· was fast ,too. "Stan" Cofall once challeng~d· him to a 100-yard dash. "Eich': won standing up, :but it was a IJhyrric victory, since he pulled a tendon and crippled himself for his senior year. Paul Castner, a remark­able punter and drop-k.ickcr, was also a shifty cari-ic1; and watch-dog on defense~ Castner was perhaps the surest shot at goal who ever drop-kicked for Notre Dame. Before one Army game,· Castner booted fifteen successive goals frmn the 30-yard line. Some criti.cs would rntc Johnny l\Iohardt n·hend of Chester \Vynnc, but a careful comparison of their' performances leads incYitnhly to a preference for 'Vynnc. · "Sleepy Jim" Crowley, of the Horsemen, was a whiz at etttting in and · 
SCISsoring. Cro\~ley W:lS a beautiful exponent . of rhythm. ~lis. running mate, Don l\Iiller, shone on the wide. slants and sweeps. Pete Vaughan later played on Princeton's 19·12 eleven. 
Nobody will do at center but Admn \Valsh. An in­
. spiring leader, \Valsh lwd the spiritual ~is well as the mechanical attributes wi1ich the ideal center must pos­sess. His feeding of the ball to the Four Horsemen re­mains :i classic of the snapper..:baek's art. As strong as a bull on the charge, 'Valsh was a.s acth·e as an alley cat on defense. Grit? 'Valsh once plnycd through a· gruelling Army game with two brok.en fingers! He was perhaps the most beloved of Notrc Dame leadcrs-:J fearless, honorable sportsman. 'Valsh's flawless rJassin~ 
[as]' 
I J I~ • • • \ I ;_ • " ~ • • • ~ • ~ 
Football CJ{eview of 1927 
All Time Notre Dame Elevens 
Third T earn Pos. Fourth T earn Boeringer .................... Center .................... Trafton Bachman ...................... Guard ........................ Keefe 
M. Smith .... : ................. Guard ................ Fitzgerald 
D. Jones ...................... Tackle .................... Lathrop Bach ............................ Tackle ...................... Cotton 
C. Crowley .................... End ................ E. Anderson Gushurst ........................ End ............................ Kirk Hamilton ......................Quarter .................... Phelan 
J. Crowley ..............~-----Back ......................D. Miller Mohardt ...................... Back .................... Stankard Eichenlaub ................... Back .................... Vaughan 
was done from an intricate shift which would ha,·e 
handcuffed the average center. Feeney, a· bearcat on 
offense, was pivot on Rockne's team. "Bud" Boerin­
ger's splendid play is fresh in mind. Trafton might have . developed into Notre Dame's greatest center had he played longer at South Bend. 
"Cap'' Edwards, leader of the 1909 team, which 
tanned l\Iichigan, was perhaps the steadiest of Notre 
Dame's guards on defense. He .stood like Thomas at 
Chickamauga. Hartley Anderson, known as "Hun.k," 
was a swashbuckling, domineering· guard who gained 
a mental as well as physical ascendancy over his rivals. 
Right on "Hunk's" heels comes "Horse" l\Iayer, a 
present-day product. Rockne rates l\fayer as Notre 
Dame's greatest guard on the strength of his 1926 show­
ing, but :Niayer was late in developing. He was medi­
ocre in his first season. It was :Mayer who stopped . Harry. '\Vilson cold this year, sifting through Army's line to smother almost every Cadet play in its inception. The collapse of Notre Dame's defense against Carnegie · was due largely to :Mayer's absence. 
"Rosy" Dolan, offensive guard on the 1909 team, 
was a wonder at diagnosing plays and heading inter­
ference. He played fullback on defense. l\Iorrie Smith, 
who weighed only 1,15 pounds, exemplified the power 
of mind over matter. Smith was as tough as whalebone. 
Charley Baclunan, tall and superbly proportioned, used 
brains as well as brawn. Harvey Brown, a splendid 
guard, is nosed out ·by those two crashing interferers, . Emmett Keefe and Freeman Fitzgerald. · 
Ralph Diimnick-fast for his 200 pounds, with gorilla-like reflexes. On the old tackle around pla? Dimmick used to take some stopping. On defense this stalwart tackle was worth the whole side of the line. Ralph played on the teams of 1908-Q9-l 0. Notre Dame never had a finer tackle. Almost as good was "Buck" Shaw, a Greek god come back to life. "Buck" resented being called ~he campus Adonis and took it out on his foes. A destroyer, this man Shaw, wrecking plays ruth­lessly. He used his tremendous bulk intelligently. De­spite his size, Shaw was fast enough to make the track team. It doesn't seem right to keep as able a tackle as Tom Lieb off the first team. ~Tom boasted as fine a pair of hands as ever delighte~ a coach's eye. Big as hams they were with prehensile fingers that' tore through · anything in human mold. George Philbrook, Zippc~ Lathrop, Dcke Jones, Joe Bach and "Fod" Cotton were tackles to the manner born. They ripped through to the runner. Had Joe Boland not ·broken his _leg last season he might have ousted Cotton. 
At the ends we find Farley and Rockne. Farley is the prefect in charge of the ."off-campus" students at Notre Dame. Father John Farley played 1897-1900 and was probably the outstanding player in the period. His defensive play was marvelous, he could cover kicks splendidly, and on the old end-around-play his ground gaining left the opponents gasping. On O~tober · 25, 1909, he alone held the Indiana team scoreless until he was carried from the field unconscious in the last few minutes of play. 
Knute Rockne gets the assignment at the other end, and what an end he was. 'Vhen he hit them, they stayed down. He vms fast as a deer, could catch passes, and the old onside kick was a dish ·he could cat. '\Ve shall never forget how poorly. l\Ierrillat, a great end, was made to appear in 1913, when "Rock" had his big day on the piuins. Other outstanding ends were Roger Kiley, the demon pass receiver; Charley Crowley, Co­lumbia's present coach.; Fred Gushurst, Lee l\Iatthews. Eddie Andcrsoi1, another pass receiving wizard and Bernie Kirk. The latter afterward. starred at l\Iichigan. 
Charles Dorais wins the quarterback assignment 
from Harry Stuhldreher ·by a gnat's whisker. Dorais \•.ras the perfect field general. He could punt, drop-kick, run the ends and forward pass. He was a good inter­ferer, blocker, and a true tackler. 'Vhat a treat to watch him catch punts, and run 'em ·back, often for touch­downs. Football will never forget his perfect passing the day he made the Army look foolish by tossing 'em to Rockne. Stuhldreher, a "stop-go" runner with a fine · change of pace, was only a shade less effective. Tre­mendously strong in the legs, Sttrhldrcher was hard to upset. Those who arc not aware that Layden really was the brains· of the Four Horsemen, rate Stuhldreher higher as a strategist than is perhaps his due. Don Hamilton, a defensive wizard, and Jim Phelan, a think­ing machine, get the call over the spectacular; but 
erratic Brandy. 

[ 39] 
. I 
Football 'l{eview of 1927 
G_ENE TUNNEY 
Speculator, N. Y. November 11, 1927 ::\In. Cums FLANAGAN, Sorin Hull, Notre Dame, Ind. 
~I Y DEAn C1fms :­Your letter of October 20th has just been brought to my attention. Due to the many interests and trips that take me a_way fron1 New York, I have not been nble to keep up with my correspondence in the way I would like to. Howei\•er, I trust this hclated reply to your letter will not affect the pl:m of mnking up the '27 FooTBALL REVIEW. 
I regret to inform you that my· contract with the King Features Syndicate prevents my writing for any. other publication. :\Vere )t at all possible, I would be most honored to have the privilege of contributing to your publication. 
Please accept my sincere thanks for your best wishes. I am most appreciative · of your thought of me. ·· 
Sincerely yours, 
GENE 1'UNNEY. 
A Letter to Sa11ta Claus 
By 'VARREN ,V, BROWN 
Chicago IIerald-E.vami1[er 
November 20, 1927. I went next to Notre Dame, n place that is to be Ch~cugo, Illinois. made famous some fifteen years hence, as the stampinn­. DEAR SANTA :-Man wants. ·but Little here below, 
grounds of a certain Bill Brown and there I saw l\Ir 0 
R k ' ' .
oc ·ne s 'boys, and Dr. Spears' boys engage in a tic of 'Visconsin. 
and wants that Little long, as they say at the University 
game. I was sure ~hnt this was what it wns, until I read So I'm wondering, Santa, if you won't fix me up some of the vVestern Conference reports 'vhich seemed to indicate that 1\Iinnesotn had won. ' 
with a football game that will be won by the score of G75 to 0. As I am writing this letter, Snnta, soon after this In the course of this year 1927, in which we have g:u.ne,. I wi~I n.ot be a~le to include my report on Chicago­successfully resisted the advance of King George IllmOis, l\fiClngun-lVlmnesotu, and Notre Dame-Southern
on Chicago, hut. have permitted "Queen High", u very Cnlifornia, but I dare say that whatever tenms I decide 
niftJ~ musical comedy, to come in, I have l1ud to watch to be winners, will be wrong. You understand, Sa~ta. the usual number of football games. · thnt I never make my decisions until after the n-ames · The first was between Ohio State and 'Vittenberg, have been played, nnd, until this year, the svste1~ was not without its ad\"antan-cs. · ·
:md it was just the kind of a game that u game between 
' 0 
Ohio State and 'Vittenberg ·figu.red to be. But we'll ~Now I II tell yon what I want you to do, Santa. Get -pass that one over, as Riley said on fourth down, and me a job reporting a game, in which the score will he . goal 'to go. 675 to 0. Then I'll he reasonably certain that the team Then I saw Northwestern's Not-so-wildcats play which has the O, will be unable to arrruc me out· of Ohio State. I was practically certain that Northwestern tl,Iinkin.g tl~at it actually was defeated. If you get this won, but discovered Iuter that they had been completely letter m time, Santa, I have no ohJ'cction to rrcttino· 
1 d . d 0 0
outplayed, and were the luckiest guys alive, outside of my ore er serve 1p. a vance of Christmas~ say on No-Levine, the Israclitie Icarus. vemhcr 26, nor have I any objection to Notre Dame's · There followed Northwcstcrn and Illinois. Illinois, having the 675 points, one for each plaver on the squad. You know how it is, Santa. · .
I felt reasonably sure, won, but to my dismay, it was · brought home to me that Northwestern really should Yours very truly, ha,·e taken the game, thought I have forgotten since, 'VAnREN BnowN, just why. · Chicago IIerald and E.vamiuer. 
1\lv next adventure was that between Ohio State and 
P: S: =----:-Bill Brown would like a little hClp from 
Chicago. ·Ohio State, according to the best dnforhwtion 
·YOU· m findmg out what m:tkes ·the family's radio rro I had,.at the time, won. But in the cour~c of the· ·next and so far I have resisted his line.' plunges· su~ccssfuilv: 
few· days following the game, I learned that Chicngo 
Pete Brown would like n COUJlle of lower teeth to mat~h had done all the elevcr playing, ancl some of the . f ' 
a pair o uppers in the middle of the cnr. And please thinking. give Notre D:unc n new stadium. ,V, B. 
I 
' I 
I 
I 
T I 
I 

-I 
I 
Football CJ{eYiew of 1927 
A ·Day in Footballville 
B,lf J IliDIY ConconAN 
Of the Chicago Evening American. 
Not so long ago they were telling us that this business of flying across the ocean in anything from a boiler to a concrete mixer was a "dangerous occupation." 
w·ell, we have one that skins ocean-skimming by a mile. It's an assignment to survey a Notre Dame foot­ball team "in-the-making." 
Following our annual custom we visited the old campus yesterday. We wanted to find out what Knute Rockne would have this season-if anything. Well, we accomplished our purpose, but we had to crash through 600 football players, ranging in weight from 100 to 250 pounds, to do it. And we found that Rockne had a plenty. This, at least, is ·the message that we wish to convey to the world. 
For the guidance of those who will follow in our footsteps, we have suggested to Rockne that he place a sign outside the gates of the campus. It will read: "Danger-Men at work." That's. the kind of warning you see around a stone quarry when the boys are going to dynamite .a few acres of ground. Our suggestio·n may make the world safer for football reviewers. 
Seems to us that the only ories at Notre Dame who don't play football. are the ladies in the infirmary..All others from .the skinniest kid in the freshman class to those haughty seniors, are rigged out in some kind of grid upholstery. 
They're Students, Too 
Do not get the impression that they do nothing else at Notre Dame but play football. This would be a gross error. For confirmation of the educational standards of the institution consult the report of .the Carnegie Foundation committee. But it really seems that after the 3 o'clock whistle blows every one round the place hops into a football suit. 
As you enter the campus there. are football players, or fellows dressed up as such, to the left of you, to the right of you, behind you and in fact under you. Foot­balls are flying through the air like ducks over a marsh. Brawny lads are missing your chin at every step by inches as they boot the balls. Some one aims for a tackle and knocks you for a goal. 
In fact, you have to be a ballet dancer to keep your feet. There are hall teams, freshmen teams, teams from every class, rag-bag teams, and just teams. But that isn't the half of it. You haven't arrived at Cartier Field, yet, and that's where the FOOTBALL players are sup-· posed to be. · 
Inside the gate you run into the eleventh varsity team. And the eleventh varsity team has just side-swiped the sixth varsity eleven as it carried out a signal. The fourth team is catching h-ll from Coach L. Hartley Anderson, who is otherwise known as Hunk-the man who breaks cobblestones over his knee. 
Nothing But Teams 
The third team is over near the grand stand. The seventh team is standing by for a gargle of water. Teams, teanis, teams. Enough to fill up the Pacific Coast Con­ference. 
And the first team. ·where is it? Discovered. It's way down near the fence practicing the hop, skip and jump or something. At least the boys are working on one of Mr. Rockne's latest wrinkles. 
And then. if you have done road work for a week or two before you may be able to follow the 1927 edition of the horsemen around the place for an hour or more. 
"Things look bad, very bad," says Mr. Rockne, his voice cracking. "'Vorse than any time since I came here. You see, I lost fifteen men last year. I believe that I will · be able to get a team together but, of course, we will lose a majority of our games." 
Tale of Woe 
Rock groans and groans and groans some more. Bv this time you have rolled out your kerchief to catch the tears. 
"Boeringer, my All-American center, is gone," Rockne sniffs. "Parisien, my frog quarterback, is gone. Oh, how that boy could throw touchdowns. Red Smith is gone. So is Mayer. And Joe Boland. Edwards and McNally,· my two qu·arterbacks. They're gone·. So is Red Reardon and Harry O'Boyle and McManmon. All regulars. And just see what I have before me." 
·well, what Mr. Rockne had before him was nothing to go out and commit suicide over. 
There was Christy Flanagan, one of the fleetest backs in the game, at right half, with Johnny Niemiec practically his equal, standing by. There was "Bucky'; Dahman at left half and "'Vhitey" Collins at full. Collins is the boy who took one run at the Minnesota line last season and curled up for the season with a broken jaw. 
Riley at Quarter 
At quarter was Charley Riley, one of the smartest· signal snappers since the days of Harry Stuhldreher. He loafs the hundred in something under 10 flat. At the ends were Voedisch, a 1926 regular, and Chile ·walsh, a brother of the famous Adam, now coaching at Santa Clara College. 
John Smith, the captain and a veteran, squatted at left· guard, with Law at the other guard position. Fred Miller and Poliski g.raced the tackles. Mr. Poliski weighs only 200 pounds. All muscle. No bone. Tim Moynihan, with 190 pounds of solid beef, was at center. 
To us it looked like a rather formidable· football team. "Things are ·so gloomy around here," Rockne relates, "that we have adopted a black cat for a mascot. This is ·a Kilkenny· cat-direct from Ireland. We are through with dogs as mascots. One of the dogs died from hu-. miliation. He was run over by a flivver with a Ne­braska license." 
If you know the relations between Notre Dame and Nebraska you will get the point on this. 
On Lateral Pass 
"And what happened to the other. two dogs?" Rock asks himself. "'Veil, they ate meat on Friday and that was their finish.'~ ·; 
Yes, the cares of football are weighing heavily on King Knute. 
Of course, we hear this from Mr. Rockne at the start of every season. And somehow or other the team hap­pens to win a game or two. It will win a game or two this season and probably three. · 
It was suggested· to-:Rock that he might clean up the whole schedule. . ·. ~: · ··. · 
"If we do I'll pacldl~· ~cross the ocean with riothin(J' under me but a football/' was his jovial ren1ark. 
b 
~ 
i•l. 
I 1 
\ I 
il
lj Football CJ{eview of 1927 
!I ii 
Rockne "Takes Out" The Navy 
By GEORGE TREVOR 
Of the New Y or/, Sun. 
"Not a drum was heard, not a funeral note," as the its collective will upon Navy. Scoring was deferred until midnight blue column of midshipmen-please don't call the second half, however. The regulars· needed time to them middies-tramped sullenly out of Baltimore's shal­warm to their work. low concrete platter last Saturday evening. They had The break of the game-a break forced by Hoosier looked upon a spectacle which, however satisfying it aggressiveness-came out of a serene sky early in the might have been to connoisseurs of the gridiron art, was third period. Lanky Lloyd, who reminds the writer of 
not calculated to thrill Navy hearts. The downcast mid­Lefty Flynn, Yale's gawky fullback of 1912-13, hesitated shipmen wore faces as long as their somber greatcoats­a fraction of a second in getting of a punt from his own the blue-black drabness of which was relieved by rows 40-yard line. Fredericks, agile Notre Dame pivot, was of perky little brass bellboy buttons. They were coming on Lloyd's kicking foot in a flash. The'ball rebounded off 
from the funeral of "Navy Bill" Ingram's versatile, sharp Frederick's chest and rolled backward almost to Navy'shitting team. They had seen that team, the pride of 10-yard line. Three green wraiths pursued the boundingtheir-hearts-slaughtered to make another Notre Dame pigskin. Chile '\Valsh, brother of the Homeric Adam 
holiday. · Walsh, in the lead. Barely slackening his stride, Walsh 
. The melancholy obsequies were efficiently conducted grabbed up the leather in· the best Sam White manner. 
by Funeral Director Knute Rockne and his troop of un-. Simultaneously his nearest colleagues turned to cut down 
dertakers, a gang as ruthless in tracking down its victims Navy tacklers. Heady work-cooperation for the good as the assassins of ancient Persia. Interference did it­of the team. \Valsh cut in toward the goal posts and interference that licked up everything in its path as fairly clawed his ,\ray over the final stripe. The score 
greedily as a forest fire. "Knock 'em down!" was the was tied. · 
Hoosier slogan. It was beautiful to watch that screenlike 
The Green Gadfly
interference form in the twinkling of an eye to· shield the Notre Dame carrier. A mobile hedge of emerald Christy Flanagan,. the Green Gadfly, was chiefly in-. green shut the clawing Navy ·tacklers away from the strumental in bringing about the second Notre Dame Hoosier runner. touchdown, which came after a sustained march of 70 
yards. The "punchplay" was Flanagan's 25-yard cutbackRockne's interferers hurled their bodies across the to on
knees of their opponents with a reckless disregard of through tackle, a twin the brilliant long gainer personal safety that savored of the fanaticism of the which he was shaken loose for the winning touchdown Mahdi's dervishes at Omdurman. There was something 
against Army last year. Flanagan, a lad with shimmying reminiscent of the whirling dervish technic in Rockne's 
hips, was actually in the clear ·on this spine-tingling "barrel-roll interference"..;_a method of spinning into a 
play, with two interferers to protect him and no Navy would-be tackler that effectively takes his mind off the man between him and the distant goal. Every Hoosier 
play even -if it does not always take him off his feet. had carried out his assignment to the letter, but gritty 
Navy defenders were cut down as fast as they appeared Schuber of Navy was not to be denied. Coming at Flana­
in the snaky paths of Flanagan, Neimiec, Dahman, Che­gan from the flank, Schuber risked a broken neck with vigny, Riley and ·wynne. Less gifted carriers could have a devil-may-care dive which carried him under Dahman's made their distance behind such blanketing interference. body. Schuber's ~arms pinned Flanagan's legs. All three 
It takes patience as well as genius to drill m'en until crashed in a jumbled heap. It was a nervy, reckless play, they are letter perfect in "taking out." Rockne has the worthy of the Navy's chance-taking tradition-the sort patience-the infinite capacity for taking pains. His lirie of coldly-calculated bravado that caused Farragut to ex­and backs coordinated with robot-like precision. How claim "Damn the torpedoes, full speed ahead!" pretty it was to see those rugged, nimble forwards crouch But Flanagan crushed to earth, will .rise again more for the spring. Presto, the quarterback barked out his surely than truth. On the next lineup the red-headed, 
-signals, disdaining the rhythm-checking huddle. Zip! freckle-faced, sharp-featured Indiana boy galloped madly The backs would execute a goose-step maneuver with a around Navy's left end where the redoubtable Tod Sloane Prussian swagger, swinging their feet like ·wooden mar­had been neatly boxed by three green-jersied furies. ionettes jerked by a single string. Bing! Those catapultic Another 25 yards Flanagan stepped off, putting the ball 
forwards would open an inviting hole. Three emerald on Navy's 10-yard line. Aptly is he called-"on again, jersies would shoot through that gap ahead of the hip­off again, gone again, Flanagan." The scoring play was shifting, torso-twirljng carrier. As fast as were Rockne's a hidden ball trick, a variation of the moth-eaten criss­·carriers, the interferers were just as fast._-They didn't cross. Moret, Army's right end, was sucked in. Reilly slow up the man with the ball. Notre Dame's long gain swirled around the open flank for the touchdown that plays are made possible by the greased-lightning tempo put:Notre Dame on top to stay. Please note that Notre 
at which they are run off. The defense hasn't time Dame didn't try to bull its way through the center of the to get .set. enemy ·line as certain Eastern teams, in a similar ex­After the first half it seemed that Rockne was due igency, invariably attempt to do. to be pilloried by the second guessers-that he was to 
Versatile Niemiec
be the butt of barbed shafts aimed by the South Bend board of strategy, which consists, according to Knute . John Niemiec, a more versatile and perhaps a more himself of ·two barbers, two taxi drivers and a corset valuable back than the showy Flanagan, scored the final salesman. Rock, you see, had committed the ·unpardon­Notre Dame touchdown. A deceptive delayed pass, able strategic blunder· of starting his second-string re­thrown diagonally by Niemiec to Walsh, who waited for serves against the Navy regulars. Navy's A team retali­what seemed like an age before crossing over to his pre­ated for this impertinence by getting the jump on Notre determined station, caught Navy's secondaries going the Dame's subs and rushing over a touchdown before the wrong way. They were chasing will-o'-the-wisps off to game was five minutes old. their left, when Walsh suddenly bobbed up in the un­
Rockne bit his lips nervously as Navy went over. guarded zone. The touchdown came four plays later. He jerked his thumb toward Capt. John Smith-no re­Again it was a wide sweep from a position close to the _ lation to the chap who discovered Pocahontas. Capt. goal. Niemiec's individual prowess was responsible for Smith took his cue. Instantaneously the Notre Dame the score, the blocky Notre Dame back throwing off three regulars yanked off their blue outer sweaters and. like a Navy tacklers on his trip over the line. He twisted and horde of green Gila monsters darted onto the field. From slithered out of their grasp, like the conger eel of which that moment on Notre Dame held the initiative, imposed Kipling sang. Niemiec can punt, pass and plunge. 

[ 42 ]· 
i I 
! ' 
I 
I 
Office Residence 
Main 0887 
Main 3561 If No One Answers Call Main 0482 
Dr. John A. Stoeckley 
Dental Surgeon 
511 J. M. S. BuiLDING SouTH BEND, INDIANA 
"Rock" makes Notre Dame football teams ...... 
Kuppenheimer makes clothes that suit college men. 
Neither can be Excelled! 
LIVINGSTON'S 
-tlze House of Kuppenheinzei· Good Clotlzes 
$35.00 
. $50.00 

EDWARDS IRON WORKS 
Structural Steel and Iro~ 
Trusses, Beams, Lintels, Reinforcing Rods, 'Fire Escapes, Grills, Tanl•s and Cranes 
Monorail Systems, Acetylene· TVelding and Cutting, and _Miscellaneous Steel TVorl• 
PHONE LINCOLN 7417 
2025 SOUTH, M!\.IN ST~~;ET ·. SouTH BEND, I~DIA~A,' U.-S. ·; A~ , 
McCLAVE 
PRINTING. CO. 
Publications and Catalogs 

435 :e:AST LaSALLE AVENUE Phone Lincoln 1570 
[ 43] 
:\ 
I 
l 
CoMPLIMENTS oF 
. 
SMITH'S CAFETERIA 
. 111 E. JEFEERSON BOULEY ARD . THE SHERLAND BUILDING 

'I 
"The Place That Makes You Glad. You're Hungry" 
Indiana's Finest Hotel 
THE 
OLIVER 
300 -J\OOIIIS -30~ 
For the Last Twenty-five Years has Been the He_adquarters for Notre Dmize Stu­dents and Th~ir Farnilies. 
SAFETY COURTESY 
Genuine Metered· Yellow Cab Ser­vice to and from the Field. ~ ~ 
Yellow Cab Co. 
PHONE MAIN 5200 
Yellow Cab Station and Agents on the Grounds at Notre Dame Post Office 

"Don't Let Your Sweetie Get Cold Feet" 
·steve Says: 
Make her com/or· table at the Foot·. hall Game for the first time in her life 
It:s just what the name implies 
SNUGGLE RUG 
(For !{ale hrj all the leading dealers) 
:·1.·, .. 
Stephenson Un~~~i~ear Mills 
SOU'TH BEND . INDIANA 
[ 44·] 
I . 
i 
i 
; 
i 
II~ . 
t 
I 
I 

.Spalding 
Sweaters 
for Fall 
Weather 
6WARM, good looking and long wearing, these sweaters have that air of sportsmanlike smart­ness that everyone likes. Just the thing to slip ·0n · these snappy fall ·days.· A fine all-round sweater 
that will wear like iron. 
All Styles ,.,.~ All Colors 
~~~~ 
211 SOUTH STATE STREET CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 
I 
l . 
i 
I 
GJ{·ERE ·were produced the Chairs and Tab­les for theNotre Dame DINING HALL. 
The finest college dining hall and equipment 1n America. 
Phoenix Chair Company 
SHEBOYGAN, WISCON·SIN 
[~m~~W:':w., -· ~~.;.:,$~~~~~-lj~ ~~,_gf4~~~ 
.:···'fw: Jro'Mi~?;,,·E -~-0ENIX:.i:HAlR COMPANY _,_ ..:· 
"..• ..,.;.......;..,;;.~·~·~·~···•-..•~·-·~''""'"~· -..~.. ·L.,-:.,.. ·~'<·~:~).,s-.:.:.~ ....f~~~-~~~N .. ~~:~~·, _.._,.:. ·-~·'~-A~·_.,...._..,;...,._~-~-:.--~·~·...:....-...~.-. ..._.__;,~~-.,...~--~... !-. ' 
u Largest Chair:Factory]in~the.:~World~Under:One Roof" := 
"~-···--. 
. [ •15] 
.. 
f<,_ 
. ......~---·-..----""·--~-......__ -~· . 
Polar Ice 
=============~~~~============= 
The only dependable means of insuring wholesome food for the. family. Depend . on Polar Ice in Fall and Winter rather than the changeable 'Yeather. 
=============.~~~.============= 
POLAR ARTIFICIAL ICE 
PHONE MAIN 4800 
. . . .. . .. 
·."When ·Notre Dame Goes marching· down the, field'' 
Just watch the jaunty. j.erseys the] players wear. All ·are manufac­
[ tured and. guaranteed by · 

D. C. O'SHEA, Pr.es. W. C. KING, Sec'y. J. B. O'SHEA, Vice-Pres. MAKERS OF 
Athletic Knitted Wear for Every Sport 
.. 
2414 NoRTH SAcRAMENTO AvENUE CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 
PHONE ALBANY 5011 
[ 46J 

I 
I 
I
t 
I 
I: 
I 
l 
r I 
i 
i 

SELECT the PALMER HOUSE 
for ztnusual conveniences and_ comforts 

\VALTER L. GREGORY 
Mana,gtr 
BRO.\DCASTJNG I'ROM STATION WJJD 
· liF You WANT to conserve yorir time ~n Chicago-and obtain the utmost com­fort during your visit-the Palmer House excells as a place of residence. 
Centrally located-affording the con­venience of being "next door," in fact, to the City's principal attractions <tnd places of business with the added attrac­tion ofample parkingfacilities and hotel garage service. Unusually comfortable­
~ 
offering, among many 
I. distinct advantages, q11iet and commodious rooms, delightful 
·floor reception rooms for guests and their callers, large library, fashionable arcade shops, five restaurants, a woman's floor, handsome beauty salon, children's play ground, complete hospital and staff. 
Rooms for one, $4 to $1D-for .two, 
$7 to $12. Suites (two to five rooms) 
per room, $9 to $11-with reductions for monthly. or sea­sonal occupancy. · 
VrsiT THE FAMous SnoPs AND STORES IN THE PALMER HousE [ •1<7] 
1'1t., 
I 
'I 
I J dge
I 
S'IUDEBJIKER:S 
ERSKINE 

1. By vvhat it does 
·Allaroundthegreatworld,theunequalled ·performance of Studebaker's Erskine is winning ne\v records-and· thousands 
of happy ne\V owners. · 
APRIL 16. Lo11don to Land's End Reliability RutJ-Erskine Six sedan won highest gold medal award in 317.5 mile competition under super­vision of Royal Automobile Club. 
JUNE 4. LondotJ-EditJburgh R eliabi/ity Run­Erskine Six sedan won highest gold medal award in 415.75 mile competition supervised by the Royal Automobile Club. 
JUNE 14. Spanish Performance Test-Three Erskine Six tourers won gold medals in the maximum classifications of a competition held in Barcelona under supervision of Royal Auto­mobile Club of Cataluna.· Distance covered, 437 miles. 
JUNE 22. Bue11os Aires-Erskine Six sedan captured the Argentine endurance run after running continuously for 5 days, 5 nights and three hours. 1548 miles were covered. Super­vised by Santa Fe Automobile Club. 
JULY 20. SatJta Fe to Bt~enos Aires-Erskine Six sedan set new speed record for 347.5 mile distance between Santa Fe and Buenos Aires­under supervision ofSanta Fe Automobile Club. 
JULY 24. Hamburg Driving Tour11ame11t­Erskine Six: tourer only car to successfully com­plete all 12 trials to determine speed and flex­ibility of cars participating. 
Won first place from field of23 competitors. Tournament supervised by Allgemeine Deutsche Automobil-Club and 

NEW LOW PRICES 
Automobile Club von Deutsch-Custom Sedan • • $965land. . 
Sport Coupe, for 4 • · 96$
AUGUST 14. Sierra MouiJ­
Coupe, for 2 . • • • 89$
tain Rtm-Erskine Six sedan 
Sport Roadster, for 4 96$completed gruelling run of401 Tourer •. • • • • 91$
miles over five highest Sierra mountain summits in elapsed 
All prices f. o. b. factory, includ­ing front and rear bumpers, 4­
time of 17 hours and 39 min­
\vheel brakes, coincidental lock,
utes. Every conceivable type of 
hydrostatic gasoline gauge, !!tC.
road was encountered. 
2. By "What o~ners say 
Ask the owner of any Erskine Six \vhat he thinks ofit•.His replywill do more to convince you of the unusual value built into every Erskine SLx by Studebake.r than anyamount ofsales talk. Here are the comments of a few Erskine owners: 
Hight There With Speed 
"The Erskine Six is sure right there with speed and endurance. I think it is great and I don't believe it can be beat for the price. Believe me, it is just 0. K."-Mrs. C. T., Pleasantville, N.J. 
Unsurpassed 
"We are delighted with our Erskine in both per­formance and looks. It is unsurpassed in the light car field and much handsomer in ever.y way than we expected.". 
C. H. A., Milford, Delaware 
Couldn't Be Improved 
"The Erskine Six is the best car I have ever driven. I don't see where any improvements could be made. It does everything you claim, and drives and steers beyond allmy expectations. The comfort of the car is beyond all question. We think it is beautiful and the finest small car on the market."-C. H. A., Milford, Delaware 
No Repair Expense 
"I have driven my Erskine about 4300 miles to 
date. I have had no repair ex­pense whatever and have con­tinually averaged 28 miles to the gallon of gasoline." 
W. H.-B., Sharon, Pa. 
Quick Pichup 
"It is'the car you love to drive'. I have owned several cars and I just told my wife the other day that this is the only satisfactory car I have ever owned. It will go where I want to go and is al­ways quick on the pick-up." 
E. F. P., Dallas,Texas 
Now judge the Erskine Six for yourself-by what it will do with you at the wheel. See for yourself ho\v Studebaker has designed and built into this small, fine car all the character and quality gained from 75 years ofhonest manufacture_:_at a new low price made possible only by Studebaker's $104,000,000 of manufacturing facilities. Come in today! 
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AMERICA 
Retail Factory Branch and Station Lafayette and South Streets, South Bend, Indiana 

"'cCLAVE PfliNTING CO., SOUTH BEND 
:! \ l..­
=--­












"' 
c{ln CHICAGO 

§Ja/m.es· Q{ouse ........, f;rsl as'nong dze selecl 
lwtefs ........, cen/er o{all all,-·ac.J;on.s 
O
N YOUR WAY east or west, Ultra comfortable throughout. ·you will want to take advan­Quiet, unusually commodious tage of the conveniences and rooms and suites. Five popular comforts of the Palmer House. restaurants. Two libraries. Floor 
· All interesting attractions are con­clerks' offices and. reception veniently near when you stop at rooms on all guest floors. Rate this famously good and new hotel. for one, $4 to $10; for two, $7 Everything downtown is within a to $12. Suites per room, $9 to short walk-the shops, theatres, $11. Send your reservations by offices and public buildings. wire collect. · 
cliale ofircol, 011om·oc cfirecl and 0()a6os/1 
iJJrJC?JHlO 

:4 
. ·: 
Michael J. McDermott & ·co. General Contractors Phone: Central.8685 105 S. Dearborn CHICAGO  

S
HELDON IfiPPING ERVICE 
W
E have served exporters and importers satisfac­torily for over 50. · years. Simply place your shipments in our care and we will do the rest. Our organization has an intimate knowledge of cus­toms ~aw, import and export regulations, and is competent to take care of all details in connection with overseas shipments. 

G. W. SHELOON & CO. 
CHICAGO  NEW YORK  
220 S. State St.  115 Broad St.  
Telephone  Telephone  
Harrison 2283  Bowling Green 5580  

SPECTACLES, EYE-GLASSES, OXFORDS, MAGNIFYING GLASSES, OPERA GLASSES, FIELD GLASSES, PRISM BINOCULARS, TELESCOPES 

Watry & Heidkamp 
ESTABLISHED 1883 
OPTOMETRISTS and OPTICIANS 17 WEST RANDOLPH STREET PHONE CENTRAL 3417 
CHICAGO 

·I 
•
. ' 
KODAKS, FOREIGN CAMERAS, GRAFLEX CAMERAS MOVIE CAMERAS, PHOTO SUPPLIES, THERMOMETERS BAROMETERS, HYGROMETERS 

~~--------------------------------------------------~-----~ 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928 
3 


Sotne Pre-Sea-son Dope 
By \Yf. T. Fox, JR. 
NOTRE DAME, IND., Sept. 18-When apples grow on lilac trees and Tunney says, "I seen," it will be time enough to sell this country short on Notre Dame football prospects. 
This statement is. subscribed to by practically every member of Mr. Knute Kenneth Rockne's. board of strategy, which Mr. Rockne continues to pronquncc his annual boa.rd of tragedy. 
When one discovers Mr. Rockne refraining from his customary cigar-twisting act when discussing the approaching gridiron wars, something is very 

apt to be up. Twisting a cigar is Mr. Rockne's fa­vorite method of reflect­ing a highly nervous state; hence in refraining from so doing he becomes 
. a dead give-away. "I have no worries at ·all,'" said the prominent after-dinner speaker, im­mediately after dinner Monday evening. "We 
JOHN NIEMIEC . will not be as strong as 

we were last year, but 70 per cent is passing at Notre Dame, and .we may be able to get by. 
"My second team of last year, with one excep­tion, will be my first team this year. Practically every team we played in 1927 scored on the secon~ team in a minute and a half. Indiana scored on it in fifty seconds. Toward the end of the season the boys were showing some improvement because it took one team two minutes to score. 
"Having greater responsibilities this year, how­ever; these boys may do much better." It was suggested to Mr. Rockne that his team appeared to be a little heavier than usual. 
uyou'rc right. They arc big but they hav:e minds like chess players. They think rather late in the evening," he said. 
tt\Yfc have sixteen nationalities on the team this year-no, I guess it's seventeen, I forgot the Amer­ican," cracked Knutc. ucarrideo is the only fresh­man ·who passed his spelling, so we're living on left­overs." 
Asked to enumerate the nationalities Knute started down the list. Billie Dew is English; Christiansen, Norwegian; Chevigny, Frenchman; Carideo, Italian; Guadolno, a Spaniard; Miller, German; Niemiec, a Pole; Leppig, Lithuanian; Colrick, Bohemian; Vczie, Hungarian; Hcrwit, a 
Jew," then he hesitated momentarily, asking: "How many have you now?" uThat's eleven, Rock." 
uwcll, there's a Jugoslav, and there's an Arme­nian and an Austrian; I can't recall their names· right now. There's MacDougal for the Scotch­man, and we haven't found out wha.t Provissiero is yet. Is that enough?" he· asked.· 
«<You're one short, Rock." 
"That reminds me of a story. Stop me if you've 

heard it. It seems there 
were a couple of Irish­men--" 
And that ended the trca tise on Notre Dame and its relation to the world court of football . 
· All this took place around the dinner table in the LaSalle hotel, where Alderman George 
M. Maypole, of Chicago; 


Clarence Sweeney and GEORGE LEPP~G Mike Duffecy, of Indian­
apolis, and this correspondent endeavored to find out just how the boss· of the Fighting Irish feels about his 192 8 football team. 
He is in rare spirits this season, and while every­thing blue he says about his men is undoubtedly true, things seem to be in pretty fair shape for the season. Rockne appeared on the field about 3:30 with his chief assistant, John. Clipper Smith, Notre Dame's All-American guard of 1927. He went immediately to the center of the field and led his band of battlers in some musical comedy steps. 
uup on your toes, down on your heels!" shout­ed Rockne. But ·it was not the beginning of the Varsity Drag at all. \Vhilc this was going on one tardy member slipped into the ranks while Knute's back was turned. He whipped around in the op­posite direction a little later and spied the new cus­tomer among the 150 in the big circle. · 
"You're a little late for rehearsal, a.rcn't you, Clarence?" he chanted. 
The preliminaries disposed of, Rockne called his boys about .him and then without any reference to notebooks he called out, one by one, eighty-eight names. At stop eleven each time there was a wild whoopee as a full team started off into signal drill. 
·Over in another part of the field, Tommy Mills, head freshman coach, assisted by Poliskcy, one of the 1927 tackles, worked with some 200 freshmen. 
(Continued on page 5) 


~·. 



rCHICAGO 
HIGH SPOT 

l1iM*')tilili$1B'Wil· 
11044 S. WESTERN AVE. CHICAGO 
.Phillips; GetschoW Co; ENGINEERS and CONTRACTORS HEATING -·vENTILATION -·POWER Established 189 3 421 N. State St., Chicago Some of our important installations: Field Museum of Natural History Forman Bank Building New Palmer House State-Lake Building · Twin \Vfrigley Buildings Kesner Building United Masonic Temple Elks N a tiona! Memorial Building Medinah Temple The Fair Store Stevens Hotel Consumers Building New State Bank of Chicago Majestic Theatre Building Medical and Dental Arts Building  

',' j 

OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928 
5 

They ran out of suits at the 200 mark and the re­maining candidates for the freshman team were outfitted today. Rockne slipped over to have a look at this group and returned in a less cheerful mood. Apparently he saw no Gipps or Granges. 
A truck labeled uMovietone" bearing a New · York license rolled into the ground and Rockne was called into executive session. The decision was that the picture men should watch the practice, see 

what they would care to take in the way of pic­tures, and return at 3 : 15. 
Captain Howard Ed­wards of 19 09 team drifted in and so did Frank Loughlin, 1920 .captain. 
uHow are your false teeth this year, Cap?" cracked Rockne. 

JOHN CHEVIGNY · ..Just as well as that hair restorer you bought m Europe," ·was the reply.. This was answered by one wild roar from Rockne! .. Everybody. out!" 


BRING BEAUTY INTO YOUR KITCHEN 
Glistening porcelain enamel -beautiful colors-graceful design -make this Crown Range a veritable picture for. your kitchen. It has that touch of color harmony needed to bring an air of happiness into the busiest room in every home. 
Just a stroke of a damp cloth will renew its shining porcelain beauty, inside and out. 
l;en student managers took care of that at once, although the crowd didn't lag any. 
Again there w:is a general roundup and Rockne stood before his men in stern silence. -When the last of the visitors had left the field, Rockne looked 
over those who had been told to remain. He spied one young rna~ in a light suit. 
.. \X'ho's that in that white suit?" he shouted. The answer came ringing back and it was okay. Then he turned to his men. 
..Our practices are 


short, men. Whatever we 
JOHN LAW

do. out here we will do Saturday afternoons. \X'e must take every step with that upp.ermost in mind." 
That ended the speech making. The quiet stopped. The men knew what was to come next­dummy scrimmage-and they tore into it as if the Army, the Navy and all of California were facing them. It was indeed a spirited workout. 
. The Crown Range has every desirable modern improvement. Two-way burners, oven temper­ature control, four-wall, heat­holding oven construction, and 
many other time and labor­saving features. Make your cooking a pleasant and easy task! See the complete Crown Range Line at your neighbor­hood store. \Vrite or 'phone for the name of the Crown 'dealer nearest to your home. 



Phone 4627 W. 12th Place
CROWN STOVE WORKS
Lawndale 0312 CHICAGO 
To the Metnory of Jack· Gleason 
Sop~o11tore Stude1tt i1t the Col­lege of Arts a1td Letters 
Jack went to his death while waiting to pay tribute to the team of '28. His loyalty to those who shared his friendship, his fidelity to duty, and his devotion to Notre Dame ideals will inspire other Notre Dame men to keep the field. May he always· remain for us another link in the chain of Notre Dame's cherished tra­ditions. 

Official 



1928 Football Review 
University of Notre Dame 


STAFF 

THOMAS J. PuRCELL ------Editor-i11-Chief JoHN T. HoULIHAN ------Busiuess Manager JoHN X. ALLMAN --Ass'!. Business Manager FRANK McGREAL -Circulation "lrfauager JoHN GILTINON. ----Director of Pu~licity 
CONTRIBUTORS Rev. E. Vincent Mooney, Harry A. Sylvester, Jr. 
c. s. c. J. G. Prend~rgast 
K. K. Rockne Fred C. 1v!iller 
Warren \V,T. Brown \Vf. 0. McGeehan _Franklyn E. Doan QuinA. Ryan
r 
The editors wish to gratefully ackuotvledge the assistance of ttyhe F~ankliu Illustrated," the Uuiversity of Y(!isco11si11, the Fred Ri11gley Faulkner, Miss Marie \Villiams, James Armstroug, ]obn V. Hiu!de, aud Mr. Harry 
Elmore i11 the compilatio-lt of this Review. 


OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928 
"tt 
c 
~ " 
ci 
en 
0 
() 
...c 
:::1 
c.. 



'Dedication 

UCCESS~this word has iuvariably marked the eud of each page ·writteu _in the history of Notre Dame by her football teams. Glorious in victory, uoble in defeat, that is the Notre Dame concept of success. Notre Dame is 110 lo1!ger repre­sented by a mere jJlot of grouud aud buildings where. her studc1its drink from the fouutaitt of kuowledge. ·Iu the North aud South, East aud 'fest, tread her loyal frieuds, who forever siug her praises aud chamjJiott her cause. This 1t11S1.Verviug fidelity has bee?.r · a vital factor in the success of Our Lady's courageous representatives. To these frieu(/.s · we wish to express ou.r profouud gratitude. To tbese also, wbo have made this record ·. possible, we ·respectfully dedicate tbe result of our efforts to portray itt a small· way· 
. the bistory of tbe 19 2 8 team. · · 
., 



OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928 

George Gipp 
Tbe little· town in Micbigan Is tucked beneatb tbe s11ows, 


A 1rortber jro11t Suj1erior . Is calliug as it blows. Fullmauy a lnmdred ·yards or more Lie dmim tbe village street Aud seem to wait tbe darti1tg pass Of famous cleated feet. 
T be mi11i11g sbafts of Laurium Are goal posts i1t tbe gloami11g, A11d tbe treetops souud a wbistle To tbe copper miner's bomi~tg. A 1mtr1mtr's i1t tbe wi11d today To all tbe uative bearers, . Aud wbirliug gusts from far Camtck Are twe11ty tbous~11d cbeerers. 
T be game is ou/ And tbrougb tbe suow, The uorthers sweep aud dip, . .The wind is calli11g siguals To its brother balf-bac/{, Gipp! T be Iudiaua· prairie lauds Are blau!wted witb suow; . T be golde1t dome· of Notre Dame Regilds tbe s1mdow1t glow. 01t tbe medieval camjms, I1t tbe early frosty flurry, Two tbousaud me1t are barkiug To tbe wiud's tt1zeasy scurry:---­
A rat-a-tat of flyi~tg feet · Is bome}rm1t· Cartier, Tho' the gridiro1t 11ow is barre1t Aud tbe dusk is i1t tbe air. Is it Army, Purple, Georgia? Is it scores they uow remember? Or classic catcbes, leajJs a11d ruus Tl?is eveui1tg i1t December? 
Tbe game is o1t/ Aud o'er tbe field, The word o1t every lip, T be wiud is calliu.g siguals To its brother half-back, Gij1jJ! 
-QuiNRYAN 

OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928 11 
0 

REVEREND CHARLES L. O'DONNELL~ C.· S. C., ·Ph. D., PRESIDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

g 
ROM the point of view of sports11tanship and courage, I can say that our 1928 eleven is without question one of the greatest that ever represented Notre Da11ze. That the tea11z lost 1nore ga11zes than Notre Da11ze tea11zs ordin­arily lose does not detract fro11z its greatness. Its 1ne11zbers were good winners and good losers. In fact, it was while they were losing that the·y showed to the bes~ ·advantage those qualities which Notre Da11ze 1nen strive to attain. Never have I coached 1nen who fought harder or played 1nore daringly when the gd11ze was going ~gainst the11z; they never ceased to fight even when their case was hopeless and defeat inevitable . . 
The tea11z was inexperienced when the season started and further handicapped by the loss; through injury, of a nu1nber of the 1·egulars at critical #11zes. Despite these set-bacl~s, the 1nen tackled a schedule that called for their 1neeting at least five of the country's best tea11zs; and it was only natural that they should lose now and then. After disheartening losses to Wisconsin and Georgia Tech they showed their courage by staging a brilliant co1ne-back f!gainst the A1·1ny, a tea11z that had been justly acclai11zed one of the 1nost powerful in the count1·y. They went into the ga11ze the underdogs, and through fight alone outplayed and defeated their heavier and -1nore experienced _opponents. Because of the fighting 
.spirit they displayed then and at af! other ti11zes, I have only praise. for Captain Miller and the tea11z of 1928. 
-K.NUTE K .• RocKNE 

Jlrr~· 
14 OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928 
CAPTAIN FRED MILLER, NOTRE DAME 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-19 2 8 
g 
HE honor of leading the 1928 teant, cOn­ferred upon 11ze by 11tJI teant 1nates is, to 1ne, the realization of an ideal. And now, after laying aside for the last. thne the reghnentals of 1ny school, it is 1ny desire to express, in whatever words I can, the debt of gratitude tbat I feel is _due to 1ny teant 1nates, 1ny fellow students, and Coach Rockne. The 1nanner in whicb ever·y 1nan on tbe varsity squad fought against odds, great or snzall, against every arising obstacle, bas hnplanted in 1ne tbe deepest feelings of ad11ziration and gratitude. The 1nen deserve tbe greatest praise· tbat Notre Danze can possibly give tbe11z. . To tbe student bod~y, I can onlJ' say tbat never before did a Notre Danre tea11t receive stauncher or 1nore loyal sup port -tban did the 192 8 varsitJ'· To tbe1n, too, I a11t grateful. . Finally, tbe principles and ideals tbat Coacb Rockne bas taugbt us all will1·e1nain with us for­ever. It is witb a beart full of sincere gratitude tbat I express 1ny farewell1nessage to the school a1zd tea11t that I love so well. 
FRED c. MILLER. 

I I' 
I ~ 
i ~ 
I i
I I
l:A,\ 
\~lffrJJ=-•::·'"':'":,,-,.------~----"--'-··---. -.. ······-··-·-····-·-·-·-·· •. •:._..:__~..:e7.:--"'..;.SY '"' ,.;,..;,_,......... , •.. 
..... 
C\ 
The Notre Datne Coaching Staff· 

0 
~ 
~ 
1-C 
(j 
> 1-C t-4 ~ 
0 
.. 0 
~ 
td 
> 
t"'4 t"'4 
::0 t'%1 
< 
1-C 
t'%1 
~ 
I 
..... 
\Q 
N 
00 

SMITH VOEDISCH ROCKNE MILLS POLISKY 
Line Coacb Ass'I. Li11e Coach Head Coach. Ass't. Coach Freshman Coach 


The 1927 Varsity 

1928. R~cord 
Notre Dame ---------:--12; Loyola, New Orleans _____ 6 Notre Dame __________ 6; Wisconsin _____________22 Notre Dame __________ 6;.Navy ------------~---'--0 Notre Dame------.----0; Georgia Tech ____·______13 Notre Dame __________32; Drake ----------------6 Notre Dame ----~-----· 9; Penn State ----'----------0 Notre Dame __________12; Army -.--:--------------6 
Notre Dame _________.:._ 7; Carnegie ______________27 Notre Dame -------,..---14; Southern California ______ 27 
1928 Staff ·  
K. K. RocKNE  - Head Coach  J oH·N VoEDISCH  - - Assistaut Coach  
THOMAS E. MILLS  - - Assistant Coach  EDWARD HEALY  - -.Assistant Coach  
jOHN P.  SMITH  - - - - · Assistant Coacb  JOHN PoLis.KEY  - - Fresbmau Coach  
FRED c. MILLER  - - - - - - Captain  
Varsity -Personnel  
-FRED MILLER  ALBERT GEBERT  .  JOHN  CoLRICK ·  
GEORGE LEPPIG  JOHN·REILLY  ]AMES BRADY  

EDMOND COLLINS . jAMES BRAY Gus BoNDI. JosEPH NAsH BERTRAM :METZGER JOHN O'BRIEN 
A. J. RANSAVAGE jOHN CHEVIGNY joHN EiDER THOMAS CoNLEY TIM MoYNIHAN THOMAS KENNEALLy GEORGE D. SHAY TED TwoMEY · Bon MASSEY FRANK LEAHY jOHN CANNON . GEORGE VLK JoHN MoNTROY JOHN McGRATH . EuGENE MAHONEY. jOHN NIEMIEC RicHARD DoNOGHUE . jOHN PROVISSIERO jOHN LAW JosEPH MoRRISSEY ToM KAssis 
H. M. VEZIE THOMAS MuRPHY BucK O'CoNNOR \X'ILLIAM DEW LAWRENCE Mui.LINS BERNIE LEAHY joHN DoARN FRED CoLLINS 

·_, 

0 F F I CIA L F 0 0 T BALL R.E VIEW ____: 1 9 2 8 
The Varsity Roster 
· Years on No. Name Position Prep ·school Age Wt. Ht. Squad 82-Acers, Julian -------L. Half __ Campion, \'\'is., Prep. ~----19 170' 5 ft. 11 in. 0 29-Bailie, Roy ---------R. End __Hollywood High ________20 163 ' 5 ft. 11 in. 0 38-Barlow, Austin ------Full _____Mt. Carmel, Chicago-----21 167 5 ft. 11 in. 0 87-Bee, Peter ----------R. Guard _Textile High, N. Y. C.__22 192 5 ft. 10 in. 0 25-Bondi, Gus _________R. Guard _Dixon, Ill., High ________21 175 5 ft. 9 in. 1 
57-Brady, James --------Quarter __Pocatello, Idaho, High ____ 21 140 5 ft. 7 in. 
42-Brannon, Bob --.-----1. Half ___Denison, Iowa ----·---___ 20 155 5 ft. 9 in. 0 
20-Bray, James _________L. Half ___Kansas City High ______ 21 170 · 5 ft. 11 in. 1 
43-Cannon, Jack _______L. Guard _Aquinas Columbus, Ohio __ 20 193 5 ft. 11 in. 1 
55-Cannon, Dan ________R. Half __Aquinas Columbus, Ohio __ 21 163 5 ft. 7~ in. 0 
71-Carberry, Jack ___..:_ __ R. End ___Ames, Iowa, High ______22 175 6ft. 1 
24-Carideo, Frank ______ Quarter __Dean Academy _________ 20. 
172 5 ft. 7 in. 0 

15-Cassidy, \Vm. -------1.. Guard _St. Stanislaus __________22 172 5 ft. 9 in. 0 
12-Chevigny, John ______}(~ :~alf __Hammond, Ind., High ____ 22 168 5 ft. 9 in. 2 
83-Christian~on, Carl ___...:R. Guard _Mishawaka High _______ 22 169 5 ft. 9 in. 0 
56-Christman, BilL______Quarter __ Green Bay, \'\'is. ________ 19 
152 5 ft. 7 in. 0 27-Collins, Ed. _________L. End ___St. Ignatius, Chicago ____ 22 
169 6ft. 0 !-Collins, Fred ________ Full ______ Columbia, Portland, Ore. 24 
170 5 ft. 8 in. 2 17-Colrick, John ______L. End ___St. Benedict, N. J. ______21 
175 6ft. 1 30-Conley, Thomas _____ R. End __ :..Roman Catholic, Phila.__20 170 5 ft. 11 in. 0 70-Conelley, Frank ______L. Tackle Charleston High, Mass. ___ 23 180 6ft. 
0 19-Conway, Pat. ________ Full _____\Varr~n, Ohio, High ____ 21 
162 5 ft. 10 in. 0 76-Cronin, Carl ________ R. Half __St. Rita, Chicago ________2 0 
155 5 ft. 7 in. 0 58-Covington, \V. ______ Full · _____ Senn High, Chicago ____21 
165 5 ft. 11 in. 0 49-<;:ulver Al ___ · ______ R. Tackle _St. Thomas, St. Paul ____ 22
1 212 6ft. 2~ in. 0 46-Dailey, Frank _______ Full _____D. L. S., Joliet ----------21 180 
5 ft. 9 ~in. 0 73-Deegan, Harry ------R. Half __Hartford, Conn. --------21 157 5 ft. 9 in. 0 31-Dew, \'\'m. ·--------· R. Half __ Fond du Lac, \'\'is.______ 20 
169 ·5 ft. 10 in. 3_9-Doarn, John --~-----R· Tackle O~aha Tech. -----------22 200 5 ft. 11 in. 2 45-Donogohue, Richard·-L. Tackle _Auburn, New York, High 20 220 6ft. 2 in. 0 72-Donogohue, Bernard __L. Half __Auburn, New York, High 18 
161 5 ft. 10~ in. 0 84-Elder, John _________L. Half __-Lebanon, Ky., High -·---21 
165 5 ft. 8 in. 68-Fitch, George ______ R. Half __Central, Pittsburgh ______ 21 
159 5 ft. 9 in. 0 . 5 0-Gebert, AI. ---~-----Quarter --Jacksonville, Ill. --------21 160 5 ft. 8 in. 0 48-Guadl).ola, Jos. _:_·_...:. __L. Tackle _Garfield, Colo., High _____ 21 
172 6ft. 0 28-Greer, Walter _______L. Guard _Carey, Ohio, High ______ 22 
172 5 ft. 9 in. 0 77-Grisanti, AI.________ R. End ___ Catholic Latin, Cleveland 19 
155 5 ft. 9 in. 0 37-Herwit, Norm ______L. Guard . Senn High, Chicago _____ 19 
185 5 ft. 9 in. 0 4-Jones, Bill __________ R. Gua.rd _Trinity, Sioux City ·------21 
183 5 ft. 10 in. 1 92-Judge, Bill __________L. End. ___Broklyn, Man. __ -----· 23 
159 6ft. 1· 9-Kassis, Tom ________ Center ___ Casper, Wyo., High ____ 20 
185 5 ft. 11 in. 0 5-Kersjes, F~ank _______ { .. End ~--Central High, Kalamazoo __ 21 
180 5 ft. 11 in. 0 10-Kenneally, Thomas --Quarter __ Crosby High, Wat. Conn. 20 
145 5 ft. 7 in. 0 32-Kosky, Frank _______ R. End ___ Yonkers Prep __________ 18 
174 6ft. 0 78-Kosky, Ed. ______...; __Quarter __Yo~kers Prep -------··---21 
158 5 ft. 10 in. o. 64-Law, John __________ R. Guard . Yonkers High, N; Y. ____ 22 
163 5 ft. 9 in. 

0 F F I CIA L F 0 0 T B ALL REVIEW -1·~2 8 :19 
The Varsity. Roster 
No. Name Position Prep School Age 69-Leahy, Bernard ______L. Half __St. Mel, Chicago ________20 26-Leahy, Frank ____:____L. Tackle Winer High, S. Dak. ____20 97-Lennon, C.harles _____L. Guard _D. L. S., Joliet_ ___ ~-----20 41-:-Leppig, George ______L. Guard _East High, Clev~land, 0. 21 22-Locke, Joseph _______L. Guard _St. Rita, Chicago ________22 112-Listzwan, Tom ______ Full _____ Proctor, Vermont, High__21 74-Lyons, Jim _________ R. Guard _Holyoke High ----------21 59-Massey, Robt. _______L. Guard _Bloomfield High, N. J. __20 6-Mahoney, Gene ______ R. Tackle _Jamestown, N.Y., High__2l 75-Malek, John _______ R. Half __ Bellaire, Ohio, High ____22 34__;_McManmon, Art. ____R. Tackle _Lowell High, Lowell, Mass. 20 8-McGrath, John ______ R. Tackle. _Glenville High, Cleveland 23 67-Metzger, Bert _______L. Guard _Loyola, Chicago ________19 44-Miller, Fred _________L. Tackle _Mil. Day School ________22 23-Montroy, Jack ______R, Half __Cath. Cent. Grand Rapids 22 2-Morrissey, Jos. -------Quarter __Danville, Ill.,· High ______24 7-Moynihan; Tim ______Center ___Rawlings, \Vyo., High __23 _ 21-:-Mullins, Larry _______ Full -----So. Pasadena, Calif., High 20 11-Murphy, Thomas ____ R. End ___Baptist High, Conn. ____ 20 60-Nash, Jos. __________Center ___Mt. Carmel, Chicago ____22 
18-Niemiec, John ______L. Half ___St. Edwards, Texas ______23 81-Nichols, John -------Quarter __Lakewood, N.Y., High..:__20 89-0'Brien, Ed. ________L. Half __D. L. S., Chicago ______19 47-0'Brien, John _______L. End ___Los Angeles High ______21 64-0'Connor, Paul· ______ Full _____N. \Valpole, N.H., High __ 20 51-Griffin, Jim ---------L End ___St. Ignatius, Chicago ____2! 61-Premdergast, John .;___Center ___ Harrisburg Tech., Pa. ____19 33-Provisserio, P. _______L. Guard _Paterson, N. J., High ---;--21 36-Ransavage, Jerry _____ R. Tackle Columbia, Ore., Prep ____28 35-Reilly, Jack _________ R. Half __Morristown High, N. J. __21 98-Reiman, Fred ________Center ___La Crosse; Cent. \Vis.____21 
54-Savoldi, Jos. ---------Full -----Three Oaks High, Mich. __20 62-Schwartz, Chas. _____L. Tackle Naperville, Ill., High ____ 20 40-Shay, George ________ Full ______Hatford, Conn., High____21­
65-Stephari, Jos. --------L Half ___ Cath. Acad. D. M. la.____20 95-Smith, Howard------R. Half __Dean Academy ---------21 67-Stru_ve,_ Otto ________L. Tackle Yonkers High, N.Y. ____ 21 99-Sylvester, Harry ____ R. Half __ Broklyn, Man. _________20 68-Thorton·;· Jos. ________ R. Tackle St. James, H:werill ______22 32-Twoney, Ted ________R. Tackle Duluth Catholic High ___22 3-Vezie, H. M. ________R. End _.:.McDonald, Pa., High ____ 22 16-Vlk, George ________ R. End __Holy Name High, Cleve. 20 94-\Valker, Jack ________Full· _____Fordham Prep ----------21 80-\Vilhemly, Chris _____L. Half __ St. Ignatius, Cleveland _____ 22 14-Yarr, Thomas _______Center ___Chinacum Prep \Vash. ____ 20 79__;_Yelland, John _______Center __ \Vest High, ~inn. _______ 20 
Years on Wt. Ht. Squad 178 5 ft. 11 in. 0 183 5 ft. 11 in. 0 168 5 ft. 7 in. 0 180 5 ft. 9 in. 2 165 5 ft. 10 in. 0 158 5 ft. 8 in. 0 170 5 ft. 11 in. 0 165 5 ft. 10 in. 0 192 6ft. 0 162 5 ft. 8~ in. 0 201 6ft. 2 in. 0 195 6ft. 1 165 5 ft. 9 in. 0 200 6ft. 2 175 5 ft. 10 in. 0 166 5 ft. 10 in. 195 6 ft. 1 in. 1 175 6ft. 0. 185 6ft. 1 in. ·0 177 5 ft. 1 0 Y2 in. 0 170 5 ft. 7!h in. 2. 151 5 ft. 7Y2 in. 0 172 5 ft. 10 in. 0 180 6ft. 2 in. 0 175 5 ft. 9 in. 0 178 6ft. 1 in. 0 165 5 ft. 11 in. 0 
194 . ' 5 ft. 8 in. 0 182 5 ft. 11 Y:z in. 2 
,. 165 5 ft. 8 in. 1 186 6ft. 2 'in. 0 192 5 ft. 11 in. .0. 195 6ft. 3 in. 0 160 5 ft. 9 in. . 0 ' 159 6ft. 0 
0 .
147 5 ft. 6 in. 178 5 ft. 11 in.· 0 165 5 ft. 10 in. 0 182 5 ft. 9~ in. 0 195 6ft. 0 175 6ft. 0 170 6ft. 0 169 5 ft. 11 in. 0 167 6ft. 185 5 ft. 10 in. 0 173 6ft. 0 



OFFICI·A·L FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928.
20 

KNUTE K. ROCKNE 
Head Coach 

The name uRockne" represents the ugreatest of them all." Absolutely without peer, the great coach of Notre Dame's. teams is a man who will always be reckoned with whatever master coaches ·arc being mentioned. For uRock" had a. way of coming through in the pinches that alone would distinguish him.· Against Southern California two years ago, against Northwestern the same year-in the Loyola and Army games of this year-it was Rockne's superb judgment in deciding just when to play his trump cards that won these games. 
But .in victory or defeat, every Notre Dame man anywhere 
.knows that Coach Rockne is behind his guns. There is not a coach of any major school in the na-tion whose record in any way compares with Rockne's. 
To the Notre Dame student body, Coach Rockne is the ideal. . Always respecting and revering him, th~ men of Notre Dame know that he cannot fail them. They know that their teams fight for their coach. 
The players, too, vouch for «Roc;k's" greatness. And even though they may not escape the verbal lashings and hard drivings that only uRock" can administer, nevertheless they play in thc.knowledgc that they arc glad to fight, to battle to the end for Notre Dame and for «Rock.~' 
TOMMY MILLS 
·Ass't. Coach 

When Tommy Mills was bringing his Vikings to Cartier Field, his teams were always capable of giving the Irish a stiff combat. His men never once gave up, and even though defeated, they always gave a good account of themselves. 
And now. that Tommy Mills is at No~re Dam~a~ Head Base­ball Coach and Assistant to Mr. Rockne-the fighting, determined spirit.that is so characteristic of Tommy has done much to 'make the Notre Dame teams that he coaches real Fighting Irish. 
Tommy Mills is the type of coach tha.t makes his men want to give their utmost· for him. His ruggedness and personality unite in making him ideally suited to his job. 
Notre Dame and Coach Rockne realize deeply how much Tommy Mills means to the success of Notre Dame teams on gridiron and diamond. · . 



'\ 
0 F F I C I A L F 0 0 T B A L L R E V I E W· -1 9 2 8 

JOHN SMITH 
Ass't. Coach 

\Vhen Hartley ..Hunk" Anderson left Notre Dame's coaching staff to take up his duties as head coach at St. Louis University, he left behind him an anxious student body, and a. head coach who ought to have been anxious, but who wasn't. 
For Rock had decided that Johnny Smith, his great All-American guard of 1927, would be the best man to take ..Hunk's" place. 
The line play of the 1928. varsity showed that Joh~ny Smith is every bit as good a coach as he is a player. 
John knows his line play.. He knows· guard play particularly. And his work this year is jus.t another example of a great football player who learned the · gam~ from a master coach, and who in turn was able to impart the knowledge acquired to his successors just as effectively as Rock taught him. A ·great player and a great coach·-John Smith. 
JOHN c:c:IKE" VOEDISCH 
Ass't. Coach 

..Ike" was a mighty valu'able man in his playing days at Notre Dame. They are still talking about the time when ..Ike" so deftly cleared the last obstacle in Christie Flanagan's path in the Army game of 1926~ And now that Voedisch has been added to the Irish coaching staff, he is making him­self as valuable a coach as he was a player. 
Ike has the technique of end play down to a science. Therefore, 'his aid in helping Coach Rockne perfect the play of the line, the ends especially, has been of great value. Another invaluable assistance that ..Ike" was able to give, was in that he had. played against many of the tackles who opposed the Irish this year. ·Thus, he was able to teach this year's wing­men the best manner o£,procedure against those men. 
. The addition of a man like Voedisch to the staff of Coaches is surely a 


profitable one. For ..Ike" has been of great assistance to Coach Rockne-and to the team. 
JOHN POLISKEY 
Freshnwn Coach 
.If one went to visit the Notre Dame gym on a. Sunday morning in late September of this year-when the freshmen wer_e reporting for equipment -the natural thing would be to utter a prayer for the soul of the unfor­tunate whose job it was to assort and coach them. For there were approxi­mately five hundred aspiring Stuhldrehers and Millers and Crowleys lined up in the gym, each one most confident that he was destined to be a great Notre Dame player. 
In the center of, the motley group stood two men-one was Coach Rockne, the other-John Poliskey. John was .one of Coach Rockne's tackles during the three seasons preceding this, and because of his ability·· and knowledge of the game, Rock considered .. Bull" an ideal man for such a Herculean job. 


OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928
22 





The Players 


CAPT. FRED MILLER 
Left Taclde 

Three years ago, when Joe Boland had his leg broken in a game with Minnesota, everyone was wondering whether Fred Miller, the sophomore who rushed into the game, would ~ake good. 
Now, after three years of specta·~~lar tackle play, Fred closes his col­legiate career, leaving behind him a most enviable record. He was an inspiring leader, always fighting, always encouraging. 
His play at tackle was at all times excellent. It was not uncommon for Fred to come down the field with the ends-to help them down the safety man who caught the punts. Gains through.Fred's position were negligible. 
Fred has been named on several All-Americans, and anyone who has seen Notre Dame in action since that day three years ago, when the Fighting Irish played Minnesota, knows that Fred ranks with the greatest tackles in the Nation. A real Notre Dame captain-Fred Miller. 
GEORGE LEPPIG 
•Rigbt Guard 
They told this Cleveland, Ohio, boy that his opponent in the first game of the season weighed two hundred and forty pounds, and that he had to have special pants and shoes made for him. George laughed. For George is a firm beli_ever in the old adage, .. the bigger they come, the harder they" fall." The large gentle­man mentioned, remained in the game slightly more than a quarter, due probably to George Leppig's concentrated attention. 
George had all the requisites for a good guard. ·Offensively and defensively, he took care of his position well, and his work in every ga~e was outstanding. 
Against Navy, he .-came through with a beautiful tackle that took the heart out of a desperate Navy attack. 
This year was George's last. He. leaves be­hind him a record that ranks him with the best guards in the history of Notre Dame. 


_,.. 
;\ 

0 F F I C I A L F 0 0 T B A L L R E V I E W .-1 9 2 8 
23 


JOHN NIEMIEC 
Left Half-Bac/~ 

A triple-threat man is one who can pass, kick and run with the ball. Real triple-threa.t men-those who carry out each threat well-are few and far between. Johnny Niemiec of· Bellaire, Ohio, takes his place, after this last year of his splen­
. did career, as one of the greatest backs to ever wear the Blue and Gold. · Butch is one of those fellows who does ·every thing as it should be done. He rises to occasions. Notre Dame supporters became accustomed to rely upon John Niemiec, and he never failed them. \'\Thatever was needed, be it a sixty-yard punt, or a perfect forward pass,· or a ten­yard slice through tackle, John always accomplished what was needed. 
Notre Dame must remember Niemiec as one of the very greatest. He is an example of what a real triple-threat man should be. He starred alwa.ys and never allowed his fame to enlarge the size of his hat. A real chap, Johnny Niemiec~ 
;-·-··--··-···-··--··----·..··-·--·-----------l 
JOHN CHEVIGNY 
Right Half-Back 

Here is a Notre Dame warrior who gives 'till it hurts. Here is a man who plays himself to complete exhaustion. Here is a man who doesn't know the meaning of .. give up." 
Jack Chevigny was a good running mate to Johnny Niemiec. He was splendid on offense, splendid on. defense. He seemed to delight in throwing the enemy for losses and his offensive powers are so well known that they need no repeti­tion. This year closed his playing career at Notre Dame. 
He played equally well in every game. Against the Service teams, he outdid himself. Chcvigny should be considered seriously whenever ..All-American" is mentioned. 
Jack Chevigny deserves the highest praise. A man who showed unselfish spirit, who worked himself 'till he dropped in exhaustion, who gave everything to his coach and his team­that was Jack Chevigny. 
I 
I ! t 
. I 



OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928
24 

FRED COLLINS 
Full-Back 

In 1926, he broke his ja.w and was lost for the season. Last year, he was bothered by pulled tendons and what arc commonly called «charley horses." In 1928, he broke a wrist in the. first combat of the season. Most men would be discouraged with such perennial ill luck. But Fred Collins, the good-looking. blonde boy from Portland, Oregon, was too full of fight. 
Dr. Clough took great pains to sec that Fred's injured arm knit correctly and it was largely through his efforts that when the ·boys left for Philadelphia to play Penn State, Fred went along. He crashed and smashed his way· up and down Franklin Field like a meteor. Against Army, he was even more a meteor. He tore the Army forward.wall to pieces; he ran her ends at will. 
Fred is a tcn.:.sccond man. He backs up the line splendidly. He is abulwark against forward passes. What is more imp~rtant, u\X'hitic" is a boy who has a fighting heart-who can't be stopped just because they break his bones. · This season closed his career in a blaze of well earned,· but belated, glory. 
l! 
ll 
p. TIM MOYNIHAN 
Center 

!I 
,, This husky Chicago lad upheld the tra­ditions of the Notre Dame centers that preceded him. He was quick to analyze the hostile attack, a fine passer, and was a veritable demon in sprinting down-field under ptints. Tim played great football ·an year; against Army' and Navy, he was superb. Time. and again the Army full­back, Murrell, thrust himself at Moyni­han, and each time Tim thrust Mr. Murrell backward. Opening holes in the opposing line was another of Tim's diversions. 
Tim's fighting Irish qualities stood him in good stead, and it is rumored that any one so unfortunate as to be playing op­posite to him, was in for a very sorrowful and painful afternoon. 
\X'hcn one remembers Bocringcr and \Valsh, and remembering, says that Tim filled their shoes admirably, the quality of Tim's workmanship is not to be ques­tioned. 
He has one more year of competition. 



25

OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928 

JOHN LAW 
Left Guard 

It requires courage to play guard, and power, and brains. John Law has an abundance ofall three qualities. When the term uFighting Irish" is used, you'll not go wrong by taking Johnny as a splendid example. For he was a tower of strength in every game. Too much cannot be said in his praise. 'fhey would knock him cold -and John would get up. Doctors shook their heads and predicted dire results, but what did John care? Notre Dame needed him and he responded nobly. His defensive play was a fea;. ture of every game. He was especially adept in crashing through and spilling _prospective ground carriers almost before they could get their hands on the ball. 
· There was no end to the fighting fearlessness of Johnny's efforts. Intestinal fortitude, com­bined with a keen sense of-perception, made him one of the greatest guards in the country. This is John's second year ofcompetition. 
JOHN COLRICK 
Left End 

They tried everything in their attempts to stop Johnny from snaring those passes from John Niemiec. The enemy line­men held him; the secondary defense blocked him~but Johnny had a way of sifting through and picking--those passes out of the air that made him a terror as long as he was in the game. 
Colrick's touchdown against Navy looked ·so simple that it seemed easy. It would not have been easy, had not the rangy end timed himself sq perfectly. 
In the Drake game, Johnny was completeiy surrounded by Bulldog defensive men, but when the ball· was ·throw~, he merely leaped high into the air-and came down with the ball­an~ a touchdown. Against Georgia Tech, Johnny was simply unstoppable. 
· John is a master in every department of end play. His foot­
work is clever, and blocking half-backs could ·do nothing with 
him as far as taking him out of plays was concerned. 




TED TWOMEY 
Right Tackle 

The Northlands of Minnesota produce rugged 'sons, and Duluth sent one of her most rugged notables to pla.y right tackle for Mr. Rockne's football team. Ted played his role like a veteran, even though this was his first year of varsity competition. 
Ted is the type of tackle for which every coach yearns. Able to withstand the repeated assaults of the enemy, a hard tackler, • and alert at all times, Ted distinguished himself by his ability to smear every play that was sent at him. 
Rock likes his tackles tough; he likes them vicious; he likes them to use their hands on the opposing ends. Ted did all this to a remarkable degree of perfection. He played on the left side of the line on defense, right on offense. Twomey is a sophomore who has made his mark, and great things can be expected of him. 
i

JAMES BRADY i 
Quarter-Back 

To play quarter-back on Knute Rockne's team is to be able ~'. 
k 

to diagnose immediately, the strength and weaknesses of the ! '.' opposition; to be able to caU plays as the Wizard of Notre i Dame himself would call them; to be able to catch punts and run them back; to be able to tbin/{. \
I 

Jitpmy Brady weighs only 140 pounds, and yet his courage ' 
\

and ~.eld generalship won for him the place of . first-string \ quarter-back. 
/

In the Navy game, Jimmy ran back the punts in spectacu­lar fashion. He braved the .crushing power of the hostile line men aq season. He had the .. stuff". 
He came back· from the Penn State game with a painful knee inj':lry. A less courageous chap would have given up hope of facing the Army juggernaut, but not Jim Brady. \'\Then the train left for New York, Jim was decidedly among those present. 
A fine quarter-back, a real Rockne field general and a · splendid fellow-that's Jimmy Brady. This is his second year of competition. 
I 
I 
_l 
.:} 

n 
:1 
. I i,l'; 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928 
27 
MANFRED VEZIE 
Right End 

McDonald, Pennsylvania has a.t least one claim to distinction, for it is the home of ..Vez" Vezic, one of the reasons why the Notre Dame ends have not been skirted to any extent this season. 
There arc several types of ends. V czie is of the type tha:t boxes a tackle at will, that turns plays inward, and that harasses forward passers to their death. He played consistently all season, and in the Army game, he kept Mr. Cagle within reason­able bounds so Fred Miller could flatten him. 
Vezie enjoyed his first year of competition this year, and ought to shine ever more brightly next season. 
. Never flashy, but always performing his tasks in a most efficient manner-that was Vezie. \'\Then a play started around. the Blue and Gold right flank, you could wager ten to one that it would be Vezie who would stop the ball carrier. Rock could depend on V ezie. Is further . testimonial necessary? 
.ED COLLINS 
Left End 

The Millers, the \Yfalshes, and the Collins'. Ed is a younger brother of Chuck, the left end ~f the immortal Four Horsemen and Seven Mules . 
..Chuck" must have passed on to Eddie his own technique, for Ed's play all season was both steady ..and spectacular. Against \'\Tisconsin, Ed downed Bo Cuisinier in his tracks on three successive punts; in the Pe~n State game, he tossed French, who had been cutting capers aU afternoon, for a twe:Uty-yard loss, and on the next play, he recovered a Penn fumble; against Army, when ..Red" Cagle tried to circle his end, Eddie chased him back fifteen yards and then downed him. 
Ed is that type of end. A world of power in his arms enabled him to smash interference. His tackling was vicious; he had no superior in boxing a tackle. 
Eddie upheld the reputation that Chuck had made for the Collins family. And Chuck was a mighty fine end. 

! ~ 
: I; ~ I,: 'i 

OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928
28 
-,. -··-:---:-·--·---·--··--..----····--~-.-----:·--,---·~ 
1 ',~ 
i 
! 
I 

: FRANK CARIDEO 
Quarter 

To rise from the ranks of the freshmen to the position of varsity quarter-back, is no small task. But Frank, formerly a star at Dean Academy, because of his ability as a high-grade kicker, passer, runner and thinker, found i~ comparat~vely easy to make good. 
Frank ran his team well. His c~tching and return­ing of punts was spectacular. His own kicking was of the best. Carideo needed only this year, as a baptism of fire. His field generalship was always character­ised by coolness and good judgment. Defensively, too, his play was outstanding. 
Two more years remain of Frank's career, and with the experience gained this season, and with the ability that he has, there is· not a doubt that Carideo will take a place among Notre Dame's immortals. 
H 
TOM MURPHY

'.1
:.1 Right Bud
. i ii 
Tall and. rangy, Tom Murphy has become this year one of :I Coach Rockne's best wing men. Rock seems to be most par­.:1 ticular about his ends. · Maybe it's because he played end him­
./ 
self; or more plausibly, possibly he realizes that when the ends 
~ :: 
..ain't there," the opposition is liable to do some extensive end r:unning. 

At any rate,. Rock's judgment in choosing Tommy Murphy as one of his right ends was entirely vindicated by the way Tommy handled himself in every game he played. 
Tom's height and reach made him a valuable forward pass receiver, and his long, powerful legs gave him an advantage in blocking the hostile tackles whenever he wanted them 
I 
blocked. Tom Murphy-a real Irishman and a big asset to il, Mr. Rockne's Irish, too. 
. 
! 
.: 


29

OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928 
BILLY DEW 
Right Half 

\Without fellows like Billy Dew around, Mr. Rockne might easily find himself in a trying situation. Last year, Bill was a full-back. This year he started at half, and then, after Fred Collins had broken his wrist, and bef()re ..Rock" discovered that Larry Mullins could play full-back, Billy found himself at full against the Navy. And he found himself in more ways than one. For he played fine football against the Navy, and against every team he got in against. Billy used his basketball ability to. advantage in breaking up passes. 
Dew is just a real good football player. Rockne has discovered that he can use Billy almost any place in the backfield, and Billy can make good, no matter where he is. He has the goods. 

I 
i 

I 
\ 
JACK CANNON 
Guard 

It's hardly fair to Jack to call him a substitute. For although he was on the second team, Cannon was sent into several games when the going was the_ toughest. And each time, he acquitted himse~f nobly. 
Jack is a guard of the scrappy, fast-charging, fierce tackling type. He has a way of knifing through the enemy line and spilling the ball-carriers. He also does a very neat job of kicking off, when occasion demands. 
\Whenever Jack was sent into a. game there was no groan of fear lest the line be weakened by the substi­tution. Quarter-backs of several teams sent their first plays at Jack, when he entered the game-and in every instance Jack stopped the ball-carrier with­out gain. 
Notre Dame is glad to know that Jack has another year of competition. 
~ ....... J .. 


]ERRY RANSAVAGE 
Left Taclde 

The tackle situation at Notre Dame never seems to be very bothersome to Coach Rockne. He seems al­ways to be fortified with strong, scrappy fellows who can handle their jobs as he wants them handled. 
Jerry Ransavage is one of our great mentor's besi: men, and several times during the season, the serious, likeable Jerry has stepped into the breach and done remarkably well. 
On defense, Jerry was impregnable. Any play sent at him was invariably smashed at the line of scrim­mage. His offensive work was of the highest caliber, too. This is Jerry's,second year as a Monogram man, 
i" and his great work as .. one of Rock's men" will al­
l 
ways be remembered. 
I 
GUS BONDI 
Guard 

Gus is one of those fellows who always seems to do· things right. Last year, when he was a Sophomore, Bondi was classi­fied as a possibility, and only that. But the quiet chap kept plugging along, surely and silently, 'till Coach Rockne found him to be a valuable man to have around. ·l 
i, ~ ~ I Gus Bondi is a master exponent of all gua.rd play. Never ;
I 
flashy, but always in the thick of the battle, Gus has proved ·(. 
himself to every one concerned in a most satisfactory manner. 
He has another year of eligibility. 


,; 

DICK DONOGHUE 
Rigi:J~ T acl<.le 

Dick was the heaviest fellow on ~he squad. He was not only the heaviest, but very close to the toughest man for the oppos­ing ends to handle. He used his hands very well, is exception­ally fast for a man of his weight, and above all, Dick has an over abundance of what Rock calls intestinal fortitude. 
Injuries of one kind or another kept Dick fro~ coming to the front last year. Di'ck is another one of the men who under­went his first baptism this year. Coupled .with a fine. build for a tackle, Dick possesses a cool, level head which stands him in good stead. Next year Dick Donoghue should be a real star. . 
JOE· NASH 
Center 

In the Drake game a Notre Dame player,. ·----·-~·---:-·-~-~--------·----.----···--------~ 
· number 60, intercepted a Bulldog pass on the 50-yard line and proceeded to dodge, piv­ot and sprint through the entire Drake team. The spectators began to thumb their pm-. · grams in search of the name of tlus sensa-· tional back-field ace. The program read, ..60-Joe Nash, Center." So much for Joe's ball-carrying ability. 
\X'hcn he was not converting enemy passes into Notre Dame touchdowns or ncar touch­downs, Joe played a fine ball game at center. His passing was faultless; he was a deadly tackler. He possessed a sixth sense which told him when to drop back for ·passes, and when to smash through. Next year, should you behold Number ..60" running sixty yards after intercepting a pass-you'll know it's Joe Nash. 


JIM BRAY 
Left Half 

Jim, like Fred Collins, was followed th:s year by· the injury Jinx. His shoulder was smashed early in the sea­son, and as a result, he had to spend most of his time on the side lines. But when Dr. Clough allowed him to get in the game again, Jim showed that he was a typical Rockne half-back. Jim can run, kick and pass, which trio of accomplishments places him in the "triple-threat" class. 
In the Carnegie game, Jim was sent in at a most criti­cal moment; he came through with a sixty-yard punt on the first play. That's· what coaches want-fellows who can be depended upon to deliver. 
Jim Bray has shown Coach Rockne that he can de­liver. Despite his injury handicap, Jim came through.. 
LARRY MULLINS . Full-Back 

It is an old, old adage of the gridiron that success depends to a large extent on taking advantage of the "break" when the oppor-· tunity presents itself. "Moon" Mullins did just that. \Vhen Coach Rockne needed a full-back, he told Larry to forget that he ever was a half-back until he got into the open field. · 
Everyone who saw or read about the Drake game knows the rest.· . "Moon" slashed and crashed the Bulldog line to bits. He is a tall, rangy fellow, but he charges low 'till he pass~s the line_ of scrimmage; when the open field beckons, Larry can· run like a. deer . 
. This .was Mullins' first. year of competi­tion, and Rock will surely be able to use him next year. 

--. -----·--------·-· ----, 



JACK ELDER 
Left Half 

Jack Elder is the modest fellow who can ruu. He is the Kentucky Colonel who ran 50 yards through the entire Loyola \Vol£ Pack for Notre Dame's first touchdown. Against the Carnegie Skibos, he raced 67 yards through the mud. 
It was not speed alone that made Jack so dangerous. He was a master at pivoting and twisting his way from the grasp of tacklers. 
Few who witnessed the Loyola and Carnegie games can forget Jack Elder's performances. \Vhenever the ttRebel'' was inserted into the lineup, the enemy was due for some extensive ·cross-country work. For Jack is the speed merchant de luxe-a positive terror in the open field. 

GEORGE (DINNY) SHAY 
Full-Back 

There may be better football players than Dinny Shay. The limelight may fall more direcdy on some fellows than it does on Dinny Shay. But of one thing we are sure, that nowhere is there to be found a gamer, scrappier warrior than Dinny Shay. 
The full-back position is a bone-breaker even for a big fellow. To play full is to be in on every play; backing up the line, blocking, carrying the ball continually. And to play full as Dinny did while weighing only 15 5 lbs. is a . great accomplishment. · 
Dinny battled all the time. He was a terrific line plunger, and his defensive work in backing up the line was second to none. Dinny Shay is there. He's a real Fightin' Irishman. 


r 
) 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW~ 1928 



JACK MONTROY 
Right Half 
Coach Rockne has half-backs for every occa~ 
sion. \Vhen he needs a good blocker he makes 
a certain change..\Vhen a long run is in order, 
he touches his magic lamp and his man appears. 
Several times during the season, Rock needed a · 
man who could back up a line fearlessly and 
surely; a fellow who could clip off a few yards 
at a time on drives through the tackles.or around 
end. \Vhen such occasions presented themselves, 
Jack Montroy got the call. 
In the Navy game, when Navy was starting ·a desperate drive, Jack cont.ributed a fine piece 
of work, when he sliced through and nailed a 
Navy ball-carrier with a deadly, vicious tackle. 
Jack was a fine half-back; He is a left­handed passer, and a splendid one, too. This is Jack's first year of competition, and he should rise to greater heights in· the years to come. 


JOHN O'BRIEN 
Left End 
\vhen Johnny O'Bric~ dashed onto the field to take Colrick's place in the Army game, Mr. Cagle, et al, bj-eathed a sigh of temporary relief. They knew what Colrick could do. And much to their chagriri, they soon discovered what John O'Brien can do. For within a few minutes, Johnny had· tumbled over the goal for the winning to.uchdown, after receiving a pas~. 
This was the high spot of John's -1928 career~ O'Brien is another of the Sophomore stars. He• kn.ows the principles of end play perfectly, and with the improvement that comes of experience, John should be a cracker"-ja~k end next season. 
Bu~ whatever may be his future accomplish­ments, he can never perform a more thrilling feat-than· that of scoring the touchdown that -Beat tbe Army. · 



OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW~ 1928 
35 



BUD GEBERT 
Quarter-Back 

Bud won a Hering Medal for good judgment in calling plays. That means that his judgment in picking the right pJa,y coincided with ·that of Rockne's more closely than any of the other pilots. That alone is quite a tribute to Bud's 
· field generalship. · · Rockne. gave Bud his opportunity in several games, and each time Bud came through. He handled the team like ·a veteran against Drake and Carnegie. He intercepted. a pass· against Loyola that was a factor in saving the game. Bud is a typical Rockne fiel4 gener;tl. He knows what to call and when to call it. ­
~----¥·-·-·~~ ..-..~-..----~--· ..-·-------··.·-..·--·-----... 
l ' 


JOHNDOARN 
Right T aclde 

Tackles, according to the leading a.uthoritics, either make or break a line. If the tackles arc weak, the line -is weak.. John Doarn is one of Rockne's tackles who is responsible for the strcng"th of the Notre Dame forward walls, this year and last. 
John has all the requisites for a tackle. He is a husky chap, and fast; he uses his hands to help him in checking the charges of opposing ends, and is a tower on defense. Tackle play de­mands much on defense and offense. The tackle niust try . to block punts, take care of the ball-carriers when the end turns them in, must be able to diagnose in a second the direc­tion of criss-cross and reverse plays. And to say that John Doarn did all this remarkably well is indeed a tribute to his ability. · 



I 
36 OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-"192·8 I 
i 
i 
"! 

TOM-CONLEY 
Rigbt End· 
Torn had to make good, because he comes from Roman Catholic High, Philadelphia. So, when Rock let Tom loose in the Penn State game, there was nothing for him to do but play a bang-up game-and that's just what Tom Conley did. 
Conley, with O'Brien, formed a Sophomore end combination that promises much for the next few seasons. 
It is mentioned that Tom had to make gopd because he comes from Catholic High, Phila-: delphia. That is very true. For behind Torn Conley were the guiding spirits of Joe Boland, Joe Maxwell, and Vince McNally, all of whom owe their early training to Roman Catholic High. As they watched Tom Conley in action against the Nittany Lion, the trio must surely have agreed that Tom Conley was carrying on-where they had· left off. 
BERNIE LEAHY 
Left·Half. 

Bernie is :i;Sophomore from St. Mel's High, Chicago, who is a triple-threat man, par excel­len~e. His .punting an·d drop-kicking alone would make him a valuable man, but in addi­tion," _Bernie's pas_sing and r.unning make him a. formidable :ind dangerous man. ­
The presence C?f so m~my·_ more experienced half;backs .kept Leahy in: the background most of t?e;'se;tson, but Coach Roc~ne is counting on Bernie ~oF the years to co;111e._' 
And ~ell ·he may, bec~us~ ~riple-threat men wh~ ca.n block as Bernie Leahy:; can arc always· at a premium. A kicker, a. passer, arunner, and' equally_ adept at all three departments, Bernie's future greatness se·erns to be a certainty. If he do~s not come through, he w.ill disappoint the student body and a J)1an named Rockne. 



OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928 
37 
JOE MORRISSEY 
Ouarter-Bac/{
-. 

Some quarter-backs are strictly tacticians. They do no ball­carrying or passirig, but they do hold down their jobs because they call the plays as the coach wants them called. 
Joe Morrissey is not of this type;· For Joe is a splendid a punter of quality and a bal1-c~rrier de luxe: Joe's runs from punt format~on in the Loyola, game were spe-ctacular. 
A real triple-threat man, Morrissey was a valued performer. He was handicapped all season by a weak knee. This i11jury undoubtedly kept him out of, several games in :Which his pres­ence was needed badly. ·~ · ·· 
Joe has splendi-d n~tural ability and a keen sense ot football perception. · This was his second year of ~ompetitio.I?:." ­
BERT METZGER 
Right Guard 

It is considered good generalship to send the first plays through, or at a substitute who has just entered the game. 
In the Navy gaine·, when Rock saw that his guards were almost exhausted, he sent Bert Metzger in there. Bert is small; so small that he was almost given up as a .var~ity" prospect because of his lack of weight. And when the Navy quarter-back saw Bert, he probably con­cluded that his best chance to score would be to take a crack at Bert's territory. The ball at this time was on the Notre Dame ten-yard line. The two lines faced each other; the signals were called; the Navy full-back plunged ·directly a-t Bert. There .was a huge pile-up. \X'hen the boys were finally·lifted off, there was little Bert Metzger at the bottom, his arms wrapped se­curely about the ball-carrier's legs. ·They didn't gain a foot. 
Bert. made up for his lack of ~eight by terrific driving power in_his-legs and shoulders. He was ..tough." Next year Bert Metzger should be a star. 


38 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL· REVIEW·-19 2 8 


TOM KENNEALLY 
Quarter-Back 

Torn is a. chap of less than 140 lbs. It seems · a bit incredible to imagine that so small a fel­
low can .withstand the rigorous activity of a · 
football season. 

In Torn's case, however, there is no wonder. For Kenneally is as courageous as he is light. He makes up for his lack of beef by an ability to use his head. In addition to being an exponent of the art of master minding, Torn is afine passer. Rock demands much of his pilots. They are his main representatives;· they are his managing di­rectors. Tommy Kenneally represented the 'firm of Rockne, unlimited, to perfection. 
\Vfe predict that next season will make him a star. It is· interesting to note that Torn carne from the Interhall ranks. He was pilot of a championship Freshman Hall team. 
JACK McGRATH  
Right T acl?..le  
Thelot·of line men is a sad qne. Spectators are usu­ally too intent on the actions of the back-field men. They forget that there are seven men who spend the wh_ole afternoon charging, tackling, taking a fancy trimming, and getting no sympathy-at least from a spectatorial point of view. ·  
Jack McGrath is one of those unsung heroes. He is an 'aggressive, .powerful fellow who wields a mean wallop. Ask the ends ·who have tried to . take him out of plays. . Jack· is ·especially good on· defense. Besides. shining in his duties as' a tackle,· Jack is a . place ,kicker. His ·kick-offs in almost every game were high and. of great di~tance. Jack has had two years of competition. · · ·  
II.  
!  




OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-19 2 8· 
39 


JACK REILLY 
Rigbt Half 

Jack Reilly was a member of the team that equalled the world's record for the quarter-mile relay. Not satisfied with his track laurels, Jack took to football much as the proverbial duck takes to the proverbial water. 
Speed, ability to cut back sharply through the line, and general ·excellence in all depart­ments of the game, earned. for Jack his spurs as a varsity half-back. 
An old injury hampered Reilly for a time d~ring the season, but not seriously enough to prevent his getting into several games in all of which Jack performed a~mirably. . · Jack;s great speed made it easy for.hi~ toget into the open field. Once there,.he was a· terror. This W;tS Jack's first year of. varsity-competi­tion. If he returns to school in the fall, he will undoubtedly be a· valuable .asset to Rockne's 19 2 9 machine. . 
FRANK LEAHY 
Left Taclde 

Frank began his career as a center. But Coach Rockne decided that he could use him at tackle. Leahy applied himself and :soon mastered the difficult job in a· way _which must have made the wizard of Notre Dame smile. 
\Vhen Frank. entered the Carnegie game, Harpster sent Kan.~is, the 23 0-pound full-back through Leahy's position. Frank sliced through and nailed Mr. Karcis at the line of scrimma.ge. 
Leahy is not ~m exceptionally large fellow­he looks much lighter than he really is­but he is always first to strike. He is fast and his charges are strong, his blocking good. Frank has done well in his Sophomore year, and has every chance to go far-along football's path of fame. 




FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928 
DR. CLOUGH 
Trainer 
They came to the genial Doctor Clough with bruised and broken bones, torn ligaments, pulled ten­dons, collapsible knees, cut faces, cauliflower ears, and the many other ailments that are bound to be the lot 
.of the varsity football players. But they could never stump Doc Clough. He would merely roll up his sleeves and by using his medical genius and by turn­ing on one of those soothing, comforting ray ma­chines that he has, he would very soon have his patient in good shape once again. · 
The Doctor deserves a world of credit. He knows his profession thoroughly, and his part in keeping the 
i 

I varsity in fine physical condition cannot be over­
i emphasized. Besides being a real trainer, the «<Doc" is «<one of the fellows." Everybody likes Doc Clough.
L~­

THE CHEERLEADERS 
The cheering this year was decidedly excellent. The cheering section was compact, and thus good volume could be more easily gotten. 
And the fellow who led the yells-the fellow who so successfully managed to make every one in the place howl themselves hoarse-was Bob Manix. Bob possesses the personality so necessary to the cheerleader .. He had a way of instilling into the cheering sections, «<the old pepper" that made him singularly successful. . Assisting Bob were two Juniors, Jerry Parker and Dan Barton. 
Cheer leading looks very easy. It seems to be a job that anyone could easily fill. The very oppo­site ·is true. It takes a personality and real ability to make the yells of a student body something to be proud of-and Bob, Jerry and Dan were abound­ing in the well-known uit." 

Bon MANIX, 
Head Cheerleader 


OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928 

The Reserves 
Reserve football has one great value-affording an opportunity for prospective varsity men to gain experience by giving such men a real baptism of fire. 
This year Coach Rockne mapped out such an extensive schedule that it was necessary at times to have, not only a ..B, team, but also a "C" team. It was due. to this fact that from a percentage standpoint, the Reserve season was not a success. However, when the Reserves were intact-when they had only one game to pla.y, they proved to be too much for the powerful Gopher and Wildcat 
..B, outfits. 
Too much emphasis cannot be placed upon the value of Reserve teams. Football, nowadays, with its intricate and deceptive formations, calls for a great deal of experience in· diagnosing the enemy attacks. And one game of football played on the field is twice as valuable as a three-hour "black­board session." 
For this reason the idea of putting two-or even three squads on different fields makes itself worth while. Coach Rockne, blessed with a wealth of inexperienced men, was able to divide his entire squad into three sections: Varsity .. B", and "C" teams. Many a coach would have been thankful to have as his first string, the m·en that comprised the Reserve Squad. The Reserves, for the most part, were Sophomores; for it was they who could profit most by experience: it is they who will be called upon to step into the gaps left by graduat­ing varsity men. 
It should be again pointed out that the chief rea­son for the games lost was the necessity of ·divid­ing the Reserves into two teams in order to fulfill scheduled games. 
It is a large enpugh assignment to play one ~e­serve game, but two-well it just goes to show that Rock realizes to the fullest extent the value of experience in building his squad for future years. 
They say that experience is the best teacher, and if what they say is true, t4en the Notre Dame Reserves learned plenty during the season of 1928. 
The opening of the season was marked by the Reserves dividing their forces and playing two games with· but small success. One team jour­neyed to Big Rapids, Michigan, and lost to Ferris Institute 24-7. The Irish rolled up a preponder­. ance of first downs, but a weak forward pass de­fense proved their ·undoing. The same day another Reserve team went to Evanston/and ba.ttled the 
Northwestern Reserves to a scoreless tic. 
The following Saturday, the Reserves again di­vided forces with still less success. \X'hile one team was losing 19-7 to St. Mary's at Winona, Minnesota, because of a weak defense against the forward pass, another team tossed a one-point lead away in the last minute of play by fumbling, and lost, 19-13, to \X'heaton College after decisively outplaying their opponents throughout. 
The squad remained intact the following Satur­day, and playing at home for a change, proceeded to settle all disputes as to which was the better team, by soundly trouncing the Northwestern Re­serves, 31-0, in a return game. 
The following week the Reserves again divided forces, and while one squad was losing, 13-0, to the Iowa. Reserves, in the mud, the other squad remained at home and decisively defeated the Minnesota Reserves, 24-0. 
The last game of. the season .found the pick of the Reserve squad going up ·to Flint, Michigan,. and handing the General Motors team a 34-0 trimming in the mud. 
Prendergast, Yarr and Y efland stood o~t among the Reserve centers, and Lyons, Metzger, O'Connor and Herwit among the Reserve guards. Culver, Guadnola, Thornton, Schwartz and McManmon were prominent among the tackles, and Kersjes, Vlk, Bailie, Chrisanti, Kosky, Enright and Griffin among the ends. Nichols, Christman and Fish­leigh were the most promising ·of the quarter­backs, while Dailey, O'Brien, Savoldi and Coving­ton were prominent among the full-backs. \X'il­helmy, Lahey, Stephan, Malik, Litzwan and Cron~ in were the best of the half...:backs. 
All in all, the season was a success, inasmuch as it gave these men what they wanted most, experi­ence. They were somewhat handicapped through­out by the fact that many of them would have to learn the plays of the varsity's opponents, use them against the first-stringers during the w~ek, and then on Saturday revert to the Rockne system. \X'hen one considers this, as well as the fact that 
a.s often as not their strength would be divided to play two opppnents, the season may well be called successful. · 
It was from the ranks of the Reserves that Lep­pig, Morrissey and Vezie rose to find berths on the varsity, ·and we can ·confidently look forward to many of this year's Reserves becoming monogram men in the not too ·distant future~ They have played their part well, both as representatives of . Our Lady on the field of·battle, and as scrub teams for the varsity. In the words of t(Big Bill" Edwards at a banquet· tendered an All-America team not so long ago, .. Gentlemen, a t?ast-The 
Scrub!" 
. ~ . -. -~··~·-' . 

OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928
42 

The Cigar-Store AlUtnni 
By FRANKLYN E. DoAN 
Sports Editor of the South Beud News-Times 
The cigar-store alumni, that gregarious· body of discarded piccolo players, melancholy traffic policemen and itinerant scissors-grinders, have supplanted the cigar-store Indian. The tipsy pop­ulace of .thJs good nation laments the loss of the famous . wooden Indian, but I have seen no one wailing over misfortunes that might have hap­pened to the disreputable alumni with the five­cent smell on their coat lapels. 

\Vhen all the cigar-store alumni and week-end experts had conducted th~ir auto~.;tes over the . Wisconsin, Georgia Tech, and Carnegie Tech games, the Saturday night clubs proceeded to pull their stools up to the table for a few rounds of ale, or take the shine off the brass rails in the more proletarian beer gardens. That was Saturday night. Bright and early, Monday morning, the cigar­store alu~ni had their green-visored caps on the 
· sides of their gord~. again and their "Chauffeur No. 263" badges pinned neatly on their. sleeves. The experts were back at their lathes or ribbon coun­ters, telling the boss and the assistant general busi­ness manager that this Notre Dame football team has lost a ball ·game, thus going back on its followers. 
That's the history of the 1928 football season. For 11 years the good nag uVictory" has carried a Notre Dame jockey up the stretch ahead of the field. This year, by. luck and a few breaks, the Notre Dame team lost more ball games than was its wont in previous years and the wail went up. The cigar­store alumni needed someone to dip in their boiling oil, so why not put the Irish there? 
What does it matter if Notre Dame did lose a few football games this fall? What does it matter if the Irish did go up to Wisconsin and drop one, 26 to 6; travel down to Georgia Tech and get bumped off 13 to 0; stay right here in o~r own 
·backyard and see Carnegie Tech gallop back east with the fat half of a 27 to 7 event stuffed in their. valises? That's the business of the Irish and the sooner the cigar-store alumni hie themselves back to the ice wagons or the elevators, the better off everything . will be. 
The statistician who couldn't make a living at flagpole sitting, went back of the furnace in mid­November and did an Abe Lincoln with his ·shovel and broken beer bottle. He figured that just 25,000,000 would attend football games· during the fall, giving the winning team a big hurrah and the losing eleven a crate of sour plums. The whole tro~ble is that this American public, which 
plays bridge for a penny a point, bets a· dollar to a plug nickel that Jack Dempsey didn't shave for three days before the Tunney fight, and blows all of its cash hoping that St. Joseph County Oil will ad­vance four points along with the Hoover land­slide, has begun to take its football too seriously. 

It's no small wonder that the genuine grads come back to a game nowadays and wish that the cigar­store alumni had majored in something besides wind-jamming. In the fine old days, the Yale­Harvard, Notre Dame-Indiana and Chicago-\Vis­consin games were the talk of the country, and, when one or the other lost, no one shed a bath tub full of tears or threatened to turn the coach's children into left-handed third basemen. They at­tended football games leisurely in those days, and didn't need to be told that their favorite team might lose. . 
For Notre Dame, this has been a bad year in many ways, but it has been a. good one in many more ways. Since it was the first year that Notre Dame had lost more than two games, most of the experts developed a combination case of dyspepsia and grief. Worrying over small events like that seems as bad to me.as moaning because your young­est son, Hershel, is the first in five generations to wear a size eleven shoe. 
After that Carnegie game, the boys who lost a month of breakfasts in wagers were all hot and burning. Think of their grief if the record went unblemished for 100 years and someone came along to turn the trick! · All of the cigar-store alumni would have desired to sell their grand­mothers down the river and wear black bow-ties the rest of their lives. How many teams can boast · of going even 23 years without defeat on their home field? The correct answer is «none," Roger. If you don't mind a few personal opinions, I be­lieve that Notre Dame's 1928 sea_son was just about the best the school has ever had. You know we aren't in the era of dumbells anymore. There are a thousand husky young fellows at a hundred dif­
.ferent schools who can play football pretty well and it's only logical to believe that they will cut loose and play it. Some one of these days there will be a score of excellent teams in every section of the· country, and an undefeated team will be as scarce as a traffic law in South Bend. \'\That will the cigar-store alumni do then? 
Of course, some bald-headed financier in the fifth row (balcony), the one who lost an ux" when Georgia Tech beat Notre Dame and knocked all the predictions for a healthy row of modernis­
(Continued on page 88) 


Notre Datne 12 Loyola, New Orleans 6 
Fighting Irish? At least that uFighting" is a rather mild description of the Notre Dame team that battled its way to a last-minute victory over a frenzied \Vol£ Pack from Loyola University, New 
·Orleans. Loyola has a great team. She showed a power­ful offense and a splendid defense. Her warriors scored :first, and held this lead 'till the second half. Several times during that great second half, the Notre Dame goal was in danger, but Loyola's task was too much for even so great a team. There were several little incidents that :finally drove the Wolves from our door of Victory. One incident was Jack Elder's brilliant 48-yard run early in the second half, which tied the score~ Another was Johnny Niemiec's portrayal of real ((Fighting Irish" spirit. He taped and band­aged that trick knee of his and went out there to :fight for all that was in him. He tossed a few passes to O'Brien and Colrick and then, just to show the folks he still had a card or two up his sleeve, he crashed through tackle for the winning touchdown with only a minute to play. 
Then there was Vezie, breaking up play after play, spilling the interference and tackling the ball carrier. 
uBucky" Moore of Loyola, made some sizeable dashes, and Drouillet, a giant tackle, played a :fine defensive game 'till his forced retirement through injuries. 
Speaking of injuries, Mr. Ja.ubert, Loyola cen­ter, had his jersey removed from his back rather completely, and although the front remained in­tact, he acquired quite a case of sunburn. Tim Moynihan, when questioned, could give no infor­mation as to how Mr. Jaubert's jersey came to so ill an end. 
At any rate, not even a Pack of \Volves was strong enough to stem that last minute march to victory. 
It's fairly hard to beat a band of ~·Fighting Irish," the Hocus-Pocus of Mr. K. K. Rockne, and the undefeated spirit of Cartier Field. 
But Loyola tried. Make no mistake about that. 


Chevigny off on a long run in the Loyola game. 

Rockne Men Trium.ph, 12~6, In Uphill Battle 
By wARREN BROWN 
SOUTH BEND, IND., Sept. 29-I guess they are "Fighting Irish" at Notre Dame. 
Hauling a f~otball game out of the possibilities of a 6 to 6 tie in the closing minutes of today's season-opener with Loyola of New Orleans was the first bit of evidence. for 1928 that Coach Knutc Rockne is still able to work miracles with the relics of Notre Dame. 
And the Irish helped, and how they pelped! Break after break had come the way of Notre Dame during the course of a furious struggle with 
Loyola. Break after break had failed to .materialize in­to any points and at the end of the first half the "Fight­ing Irish" were lagging, with the score of 6 to 0 against them, a sneak across the line by Lopez of Loyola putting 
the finishing touch on a march that had extended from the close of the first period through the opening minutes of the second. ­
Elde1· Spri1tts 48 Ym·ds 
Once they were let loose on the field for the second half, Notre Dame proceeded to squa.re that count, Jack Elder, sprinting 48 yards fair sort of Irish combination, if you ask me. don't know what became of Murphy. I know he did what was expected of him. I do know that O'Brien, leaping high in the air, outscramblcd a flock of Loyola goal defenders very soon after he had entered the game and came down with a for­ward pass that Johnny Niemiec, the collapsible knee controller, had sh~cd his wa.y. 
The goal, which Notre Dame had been threaten­ing, was eight yards away. · I do know that O'Brien, appearing over at the 
The Lineup 
Notre Dame Loyola 
Collins _____L. E.___Miller (c) Miller (c) ___L. T.___ Drouillet L;'ppig _____L. G._____ Cooper 
Moynihan --:--C._____ Jaubert Law _______R. G.____ Ritchey Twomey ___R. T.______ Sehrt Vezie ______R. E.______ Allen Brady· _____Q.B.______ Lopez Elder ______ L. H._____ Budge Chevigny __R. H.______ Moore Collins ____F. B.___ Maitland 
other end of the line, reached up and came down with an­other pass from Niemiec, and the goal was two yards away. 
Shay Plu1tges Ove1· 
\Vhat happened for the next few seconds will al­ways remain a mystery to me. A lady with a fur coat, who perched at the top of the· stand, blocked off my VISion, as relentlessly as Loyola thrust back the first two attempts Notre Dame made to get across those· final two yards. 
On the third, there was a rush, a bump, a scattering 

early in the period for the touchdown that evened things up. For a while then it looked like a parade for the Irish. But time after time Loyola's strength or Notre Dame's weakness kept scores from materializing, though chances bobbed up with regularity that was al­most monotonous. 
Thus the game wore along into its very last few minutes, when a break, that was to prove the much needed one, gave the Irish a chance to pull the con test out of the possibility of a tic. 
It came by way of afumble, just on:e of the many of these pesky things that had featured or marred the -progress of the play throughout the afternoon. 
I1·ishe1·s Se1tt l1t 

It was Notre Dame's ball on the enemy 23-yard line. Two more bluc-jcrseyed stalwarts slipped on the field, just two of a. parade of replacements that had been going on throughout the hard~ fought game. 
And these two were O'Brien and Murphy, a 

of  Loyola  defenses,  and  
across  the line,  ball hugged tight ly,  was  a  man  
named "Dinny" Shay.  

The Fighting Irish, it seems, had taken charge of . things. . 
But it developed after much deliberation and celebration .for the achievement of "Dinny" Shay in carrying across -the winning touchdown that it 
· wasn't Shay at all who did this, but Niemiec. The cheers, if delayed a. trifle, are now in order for this· young man whose wabbling knee was in such shape that Coach Rockne, before the game, said he didn't think the young man would ever be ·able to play again. \Vith his passing to O'Brien and his final smash across for a touchdown,· Niemiec the man with the collapsible knee, didn't do badly at all. 
R. H. L. Maites the Review 

AND NOTRE DAl\IEI Why; you little rascals, after that ~arne of yours with Wisconsin we thou~ht the Navy would simply bury you ri~ht in the center of Soldiers' Field. And then look what you did! It's as hard to predict how a football game is going to come out as it is to forecast an election. 

Notre Dam.e Wisconsin 
The statistics would say that Notre Dame badly outplayed Glen Thistlewaite's powerful Wiscon­sin eleven. They would prove that the Blue and Gold gained more than twice as much ground as the Badgers from scrimmage; but the score-board on Randall Field showed twenty-two points for the Cardinal and six for Rockne's Fighting Irish. And, after all, points are the things tha.t win ball 
games. The Notre Dame backs fumbled, and they fum­bled at most inopportune moments. It was these unfortunate occurrences alone that led to \Visean­

i I 
sin's victory. Rockne's men drove down the field in true Notre Dame fashion late in the secondil quarter, and climaxed this march with a touch­
il 
_down; which offset the two point margin \Vis­I! consin had gained through a safety.
It 
But Old Man Fumble kept hanging around; and before the. third period had ended, he had hung the Indian sign on the Fighting Irish in the form of two more \Visconsin touchdowns. 

i 
v 
I i 
6 22 

Notre Dame was defeated, but not outplayed. Fumbles are like errors in baseball. They arc un­fortunate happenings, but they should not cause a cry for the scalps of the offenders. 
The defensive play of John Law and Ed. Collins featured for the Irish. John, as usual,. was at the bottom of every play. The tm.{gher they make it for John, the better he likes it. Ed. Collins dumped the Badger safety man in his ·tracks on three suc­cessive punts.· Each time he raced down the field and tackled Cuisinier before the latter could even get started. 
\Visconsin has a strong team-a fast-charging line, and a deceptive running and aerial attack. The Badgers should come close to a Conference Championship. 
A cheer for the great·team that won. But do not be inclined to criticize the Fighting Irish who outgained and outran the Badgers, but who couldn't beat Old Man Fumble. 

.L! 

47
REVIEW-1928
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL 



Friends of theFighting Irish 
Edwin T. Breen, Chicago, Ill. John P. Brice, 
Chicago, Ill. Frederic J. Clifford, Chicago, Ill. 
Hugh J. Daly,Chicago, Ill. Thomas J. Hanlon, Chicago, Ill. James P. Harding,
Chicago, Ill. Frank P. Leffingwell, Chicago, Ill. 
Hon. .Tames V. O'Donnell, Chicago, Ill. August A. Van Wanterghem, Chicago, Ill. 
A. J. Dooley,
Chicago, Ill. ·J. A. McKeough,­Chicago, Ill. Thomas ·w. Cullen, 
Brooklyn, N. Y. 
William, J. Reidy,Chicago, Ill. 
Dennis F. Swords, 
· Rockford, Ill. 
0. George Casey,Brooklyn, N. Y. 
William L.' Ka~augh,New York City 
Bernard J. Fallon, Chicago, Ill. 
Frank C. Walker, · New York City. 
C. W. Townsend, New York City. 
Charles E. Riley, . Brooklyn, N. Y. 
P. A. Smith,
East Orange, N.J. 
Charles J. O'Brien, New York City. 
Capt. Ed. McDonough,New York City. 
Benjamin Margolis, · New Rochelle, N. Y. 
F. S. Gardner, New York City. 
John R. Barry,New York City. 
Edgar Kobak, New York City. 
J. Walter Hannon, Indianapolis, Ind. 
P. C. Reilly,Indianapolis, Ind. 
C. J. Irwin,
Buffalo, N. Y. 
T. J. Dempsey,Dunmore, Pa. 

' l James H. McDonough, Jr., New York City. 
. Laurence Schwab, .. New York City. 
A. Michelini, New York-City. 
John J. O'Kane, Jr.,
New York City. Harry. C. Bryan,New York City. · Henry Kest, . New York City. Thomas S. Donlan, New York City. Joseph Hinchliffe, Paterson, N. J, Zoltan Drosdick,
Hazelton, Pa. 
Richard P. Devine, Columbus, Ohio. 
T. B. Devine,· Columbus, Ohio. 
James A. Devine. 
Columbus, Ohio. Hugh Terry,Hazelton, Pa. George A. Shannon, Jersey City, N.J. Richard Anderson,
Brooklyn, N. Y. Harold J. Burke,
Chicago, Ill. 
Robert W. Kirkland, . New York City. 
Harry W. Williams, . Chicago, Ill. 
J. M. O'Day,
New York City. William P. Shinners,
Binghampton, N. Y. Rev. Walter D. Casey,Hartford, ·Conn. David R. Kirby,Detroit, Mich. August P. Klein, New York City. ·Robert F. Tierney,Ne:w York City. William L. Crilley,·New York City. John Joseph Tierney,Staten Island, N.Y. William F. Leimer, Orange, N.J. John W. Regan,Plainfield, N.J. Cornelius A. Breen, Hackensack, N.J. Dr. Paul Dineen,
New York City. Thomas L. Grace, Brooklyn, N.Y. Gerald Hurst,
New York City. 
J. V. Mitchell,
Rockville Centre, N. Y. 
Charles J. Raliegh,New York City. 
William J. McCloskey, Jr., Philadelphia, Pa. 
M. E. Yorke, Carteret, N. J. 
Anthony J. Heinlein, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Robert P. Morrow, Buffalo, N.Y. 
Joseph F. lgoe,Newark, N. J. 
Clarence J. Norton, Scranton, Pa. 
James J. Devine1 . New York C1ty. 
Pat Malloy,Tulsa, Okla. 
P. D. Herwit, Chicago, Ill. 
J. L. Roddy,
• 
Milwaukee, Wis. 

T. 
B. Brosnan, New York City. 


Barney U dol£, 
New York City. 
Katherine Zabriskie, Jersey City, N.J. 
C. F. Feltham, Chicago, Ill. 
C. H. Schmitz, Chicago, Ill. 

T. Condon, . Battle Creek, Mich. 
M. J. Tobin, Chicago, Ill. 
Martin E. Gardner, Chicago, Ill. 
E. B. _Dunigan,Oak Park, Ill. 
James Newman, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
J. M. Byrne, Jr., Newark, N. J, 
Paul C. Moore, New Brunswick, N. J. 
Carl L. Firlie, Cumberland, Md• 
Thomas J. Kilkenny,Newark, N. J, 
John B. Sullivan, New Bedford, Mass. 
Thomas J. McHugh,Scranton, Pa. 
Reginald J. Hunt, New York City. 
Dr. Joseph T. Mahoney,Chicago, Ill. 
Douglass & Dunn, Lake Geneva, Wis. 
H. F. Madden, Toledo, Ohio. 
Mrs. Margaret Frisbie, Chicago, Ill. 
Herbert G. Eck, Chicago, Ill. 
Floyd R. Murray, . Hammond, Ind. 
Martin A. Fanning,Chicago, Ill. 
/ Joseph A. Ahern, 
Chicago, Ill. 

R. O'Harea, Chicago, Ill. 
James H. Gavin, Chicago, Ill. 
Mary W. Dwyer,Chicago, Ill. 
J. A. Chevigny, Md., Hammond, Ind. 
T. P. O'Donovan, Chicago, Ill. 
R. A. Gallagher,Chicago, Ill. 
Harold D. Crotty, Chicago, Ill. 
John Carroll, Calumet City. 
John E. Fitzgerald,Hammond, Ind. 
J. Howe,
Chicago, Ill. 

Henry P. Downey,Hammond, Ind. 
Martin Finneran, Calumet City. 
Leo M. Gartland, Marion, Ind. 
H. Feltes, Chicago, Ill. 
M. M. Buescher, Elkhart,. Ind. 
Warren O'Donnell, Oak Park, Ill.· 
George Larkin, Chicago, Ill. 
F. J. McNichols, Chicago, Ill. 
John Cassidy,Chicago, Ill. 
William Gleason, Chicago, Ill. 
Frank X. Gartland, Marion, Ind. 
T. J. Herlihy,Chicago, Ill. 
R. J. O'Donnell, Chicago, Ill. 
James B. Duggan,Chicago, Ill. 
EdwardT. McFadden, Chicago, Ill. 
P. J. Keough,Lake Bluff, Ill. 
Hugh E. Mulligan,Chicago, Ill. 
George Herrman, Chicago, Ill. 
Rev. J, M. Scullen, Cleveland, Ohio. 
C. J, Coyer,Chicago, Ill. 
Tyler Williams, Chicago, Ill. 
I. V. Inderriden, Chicago, Ill. 
Dr. Crow C. Coady, Dubuque, Iowa~ 
A. D. Roche, Chicago, Ill. 
James F. Cahill, 
· La Salle, Ill. 
Michael Zimmer, Warden, Chicago, Ill. 
Raymond Schuster, Chicago, Ill. 
J. Kalman Reppa,East Chicago, Ind. 
N.C. Duffy,
Perth Amboy, N.J. Henry McManus, ·New York City. James J. Bradley, . New York City, Dr. John E. Lynch,Chicago, Ill. John P. V. Murphy,Chicago, Ill. Frank Carroll, Wilmette, Ill. Maurice Hickey,New York City. James F. Connell, New Yor~ City. Joseph L. Rafte·r, Scranton, Pa. Thomas J. Cronin,
Binghampton, N.Y. Charles W. Lynch,New York City. James J. DWYer,
New York City. Paul E. Haynes,Cleveland, Ohio. Walter E. Martin·, New York City. Arthur O'Neil, · ~ew York.City. James T. Sexton,
New London, Conn. James T. McConaghy,Ardmore, Pa. John P. Kalina. 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
John M. Whelan, Paterson, N. J. 
William C. Kinne, Harnell, N. Y. 

First row: Carideo; Collins, E.; Montroy; :Ooarn; Vezie; Collins, F.; Chevigny; Miller, Capt.; Moynihan; Cann Dew; Brady; Thornton; Keeler; Prendergast; Reilly; Colri Cannon, D.; Kerjez; Mahoney; Jones; Shimmins; Ryan. -T Elder; Cameron; Kenneally; O'Connor, J.; O'Brien, E.; Nic Lennon; Judge; Dick. Fourth row: Cassiday; Christma F.; ¥cManmon; McCubban; Crowley; O'Connor, P.; \Vii Conway; Deautremont; McCarthy; Daily; Lyons; McKe Mangen. Sixth row: Locke; Gallagher; Griffin; Shay; Dee Redgate; Brannon; SavoldL Seventh row: Conley, T.; Le Cronin; Trandell; Lynch. Eighth row: Bray; Kassis; Tro Thos. Mills, Ass't. Coach; J(. K. Rockne, Head Coach; Joh 

J,l ._,.... 
~ La.w; Bondi; N-iemiec; Murphy; McGrath; Her_wit; o~, ].; Leppig; Fitch; Barlow; Smith, H. Second row: ck; Gebert; Richards; Donoghue, E.; Nash; Vlk; Str.uve; hird row: \~illiains; Bee; Denchfield; Massey; Guad~ola; hols; Connolly, F.; Christianson ; Sylvester; Ransavage; n; Bourke; Walker; Schwar~z; Litzwan; Leahy, F.; Kosky, helmy; Yarr; Twomey; Culver; Gillerlain. Fifth ~ow: on; Greer; Metzger;_ Mortenson; Russell; Brown; Cabe_rry; gan; Yelland; Soisson; Ma.lik; Bailie; Grisanti; Kosky, E.; ahy, B.; Ripman; Enright; Fishleigh; O'Brien, J.; Mullins; mbley; R. Donoghue; Aug. Grams, Mgr.; Dr. Leslie Clough; · 
n P. Smith, Ass't. Coach~ · -. 



[I 
ll 
1\ 
.I 
;I,I II 
l 
First row: Carideo; Collins, E.; Montroy; Poarn; ~ La.w; Bondi; N.iemiec; Murphy; McGrath; Her_wit; Vezie; Collins, F.; Chevigny; Miller, Capt.; Moynihan; Canno~, J.; Leppig; Fitch; Barlow; Smith, H. Second ~ow: Dew; Brady; Thornton; Keeler; Prendergast; Reilly; Colrick; Gebert; Richards; Donoghue, E.; Nash; Vlk; Str,uve; 
Cannon, D.; Kerjez; Mahoney; Jones; Shimmins; Ryan..Third row: \'Villiains; Bee; Denchficld; Massey; Guadnola; Elder; Cameron; Kenneally; O'Connor, J.; O'Brien, E.; Nichols; Connolly, F.; Christianson; Sylvester; Ransavage; Lennon; Judge; Dick. Fourth row: Cassiday; Christman; Bourke; \'Valker; Schwar~z; Litzwan; Leahy, F.; Kc)sky, F.; M:cMarimon; McCubban; Crowley; O'Connor, P.; \'Vilhelmy; Yarr; Twomey; Culver; Gillerlain. Fifth row: Conway; Deautremont; McCarthy; Daily; Lyons; McKeon; Greer; Metzger;. Mortenson; Russell; Brown; Cabe_rry; Mangen. Sixth row: Locke; Gallagher; Griffin; Shay; Deegan; Yelland; Soisson; Malik; Bailie; Grisanti; Kosky, E.; Redgate; Brannon; Savoldi~ Seventh row: Conley, T.; Leahy, B.; Ripman; Enright; Fishleigh; O'Brien, J.; Mullins; Cronin; Trandell; Lynch. Eighth row: Bray; Kassis; Trombley; R. Donoghue; Aug. Grams, Mgr.; Dr. Leslie Clough; · Thos. Mills, Ass't. Coach; l(. K. Rockne, Head Coach; John P. Smith, Ass't. Coach~ · · 

OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928
50 
Friends of theFighting. Irish 
M. Francis Devereux, North Bergen, N.J. Joseph A. Donoghue,Philadelphia, Pa. 
Thomas Casey,New York City. 
F. K. Larson, New York City. 
Frank W. McCarthy, 
James D. McCann, New Rochelle, N. Y. Francis P. Kenny, New York City. Harry ·Scharf, New York City. Joseph P. Luin, New York City. Edward J. O'Brien, New York City. Francis A. Bain, New York City. Francis V. Pisula, 
Latrobe, Pa. Phillip DOherty, Latrobe, Pa. 
James F. Egan,New York City. Richard Haggerty, Chicago, Ill. Herbert Harrington, East Orange, N.J. Francis W. Barrett, Newark, N.J. _ 
J. J. Laughlin,New York City. 
Edward King,New York City. 
Walter R. Shanny, New York City. 
Timothy A. Barret, Chicago, Ill. 
J. V. Burns, Md., Coaldale, Pa. 
Andrew Ruchner, Coaldale, Pa. 
Timothy Sullivan, Waterbury, Conn. 
Charles E. Fitzsimmons, Hartford, Conn. 
John A. Hanley, Jersey City, N.J. 
Gerald A. Garvey,·Chicago, Ill. 
William J. Bellinger.Niagara Falls, N. Y. 
Paul A. Cullinan, New York City. 
J. T. Harrington,·New York City. 
Frank Pavis, · New York City. 
Andrew J. Haine, New York City. 
Francis X. Sullivan, Brooklyn, N.Y. 
Eugene Boeurle, Paterson, N.J. 
A. J. Buescher, Maywood, Ill. 
C. Roy McCanna, Burlington, Wis. 
Edmund H. Savard, Sandusky, Ohio. 
D. F. Kelly, Chicago, Ill. 
Dr. James Murphy,Middleton, Conn. 
Bernard Noonan, Morristown, N. Y. 
Ralph O'Hara, Chicago, Ill. 
Thomas J. Walsh, Chicago, Ill. 
H. A. Mendelson, Detroit, Mich. John A. Byrnes.New York City. Dr. James E. McCambridge,Poughkeepsie, N.Y•. James A. Farley,New York City. James J. Garrity,New York City. Margaret Lambert, Jersey City, N. J, 
Herman 0. Leppig, Cleveland, Ohio. 
J. A. Dorsey,Hammond, Ind. 
Martin J. Healy,New York City. 
Walter J. Riley,East Chicago, Ind. 
Edward J. Donnelly,New York City. 
J. J. Heffernan, · New York City. 
J. B. Fisher, New York Cit]•. Andrew J. McDonough, . Plainfield, N. J. Joseph G. McLaughlin,Jersey City, N.J. 
Walter J. Stapleton,B.ridgeport, Conn. 
John C. Sullivan. Passaic, N. J. 
John F. Curry,New York City. 
E. B. Lowell. New York City. 
J. P. Kiernan. New York City. 
John J. Malone, Lancaster, Pa. 
Archie R. Campbell,Flint, Mich. 
John B. Wheeler, Chicago, Ill. 
Frank E. Collins, Boston; Mass. 
Martin J. Lyons,New York City." 
James W. Sanderson, New York City. 
Louis James Hackert, Brooklyn, N.Y. 
Edward J. O'Connell, New York City. 
Louis A. Wildman, New York City. 
Louis R. Rochette, Chicago, Ill. 
D. P. O'Keefe. Detroit, Mich. 
John L. Mcinerney,Chicago, Ill. 
Arthur J. Peacock, New York City. 
James O'Shaughnessy,Bronxville, N. Y. 
A. P. Kane, Bloomington, Ill. 
W. J. Cassady, · Norwood, Ohio. 
John J. McCloskey, Newark, N.J. 
Edward J. Gleason, New York City. 

Herbert T. Kelly,
New York City. John W. O'Donnell, New York City. 
George A. McGee, Minot, No. Dak. James T. Quinn, Rahway, N.J. James McKenna, Pelham Manor, N. Y. James B. Lamb. New York City. Simon 0. Flaherty,New York City. 
E. T. Christmas. New York City. Bert Bloom, New York City. John E. Joyce,Newark, N. J. Joseph H. Monahan, Newark, N.J. James H. Chapin,Far Rockaway, N. Y. John R. Cahill, New York City. Dr. John F. Donohue. Oyster Bay, N. Y. Harry R. Abbott, 
Paterson, N. J. Thomas A. Ryan, · New York City. 
James J. O'Brien, Astoria, L. I., N. Y. James McCarthy,Bridgeport, Conn. John J. Poulton, Chicago, Ill. Edward F. Kelley, Wilmette, Ill. Rev. Stephen Krasula, New York City. William Hughes, Caldwell, N. J. 
E. J. Mahoney,New York City. 
W. L. Conwell, New York City. Mrs. Margaret Merwin, Croton-on-Hudson, N. Y. 
Mrs. Dorothy Van L. Flynn,Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y. 
T. J. Koenig,New York City. Ralph C. Marack, Chicago, Ill. John F. Higgins,Fairplay, Colo. Martin F. Donahue, NewYork City. Edward T. McLain, Philadelphia, Pa. Frank J. 'N'clan, New York City. John W. Dubbs. Mendota, Ill. Patrick McFarland, Joliet, Ill. 
Francis X. Fallon, New Rochelle, N.Y. 
M. E. Stetz, Haverstraw, N. Y. 
J. James Shea, New York City. 
James Corroon, Lakewood, N. J. 
0. V. Feeney, Haverstraw, N. Y. 
George N. McDonald, Waterbury, Conn. 
John E. Flanigan,New York City. 
Edward E. Burke, Jersey City, N. J. Edward J. Cunningham,New York City. 
William]. Dolan, New York City. 
P. F. O'Connor, Springfield, Mass. 
Vincent T. Corbett, Chicago, Ill. 
William Lonergan,Chicago, Ill. 
J. ]. Kelly,Chicago, Ill. 
H. A. Heidkamp, Chicago, Ill. 
A. W. Marshall, Chicago, Ill. 
Edward W. Gould, Chicago, Ill. 
John .T. Casey.
Chicago, Ill. Charles A. Paquette,Chicago, Ill. 
Michael J. McDermott, Chicago, Ill. 
James P. Collins, Chicago, Ill. Byron V. Kanaley,Chicago, Ill. 
Roy Getcham, Chicago, Ill• Roger .T. Kasper,
Chicago, Ill. Austin B. O'Malley,Chicago, Ill. 
Thomas F. Haves, Chicago, Ill. 
William T. Birmingham,Chicago, Ill. 
Richard P. O'Connor, Chicago, Ill. 
James W. Houlihan, Chicago, Ill. 
William J. Houlihan, Chicago, Ill. 
Julius M. Altenhofen, Chicago, Ill. 
Casper J. Resch, Chicago, Ill. 
C. J. Rogers,Oak Park, Ill. 
John F. Cushing,Chicago, III. 
John .T. Lyons.Chicago, Ill. 
William C. King,Chicago, Ill. 
W. J. Leahy,Chicago, Ill. 
A. W. McGrath, Chicago, Ill. 
Harold J. McElhinny,Chicago, Ill. 
E. W. Clapp,Chicago, Ill. 
F. A. Hampton,Indianapolis, Ind. 
Ed. A. Garvey, · Chicago, Ill. 
W. A. Purcell, Oak Park, Ill. 
David B. Gorman, Chicago, Ill. 
James Callan, Chicago, Ill. 
James P. Collins, Jr., Oak Park, Ill. 
J. P. Considine, Chicago, Ill. 


OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928 
51 

Too Many Futnbles-Irish .Lose 
By HARLAND RoHM 
Chicago Tribuue Press Service 
MADISON, \'\TIS., Oct. 6-\'V'isconsin swept back the Notre Dame tidal wave in the Badgers' opening game of the season today, 22 to 6. 
Fumbles .paved the way for two of Wisconsin's touchdowns, but it was a powerful line whic;;h re­covered the fumbles and gav~ the backs a chance. Wisconsin scored first when Kettelaar broke through to block a· kick and fall on the ball be­hind Notre Dame's end zone for a safety. In the second quarter Notre Dame marched 70 yards, chiefly by passes, to score and at the half the count was 6 and 2. 
~ 
Cuisi11ier Spri11.ts jo1· Touchdowtt 

\'V'ithin five .minutes two N~tre Dame fumbles gave \'V'isconsin its chance for two touchdowns. 
I~ yardage and downs there is a sad discrepancy ·between the figures and those on the scoreboard, for Notre Dame gained far more ground from scrim­mage, with the distances the ball was moved on passes about equal. Notre DameI carried the ball 121 yards from scrimmage · against \'V'isconsin's 50, and the I Ramblers made eleven first 
..----------------r Dame had the ball on its 
The Lineup 
Wisconsin Notre Dame Davis .:_ ____L. E._____ Collins Lubratovich L. T._____ Miller Linden _____L. G. _____ Leppig Conroy _____c.___.:_ Moynihan Backus ____R. G._______ Law Kettelaar __ R. T.___ McGrath Wa·rren ..:.. ___R. E.______ Vezie Cuisinier ___Q. ·B.__...,___ Brady Price ______L. H.______ Elder _Lusby _____R. H.__ Chevigny Rebholz ____F. B._______ Shay 
I 
downs to exactly one for \'V'isconsin. The co-ordi­nating factor was the fumbles, for Notre DameI made seven· and \'V'isconsin three, and the Badgers r:ecovered seven and Notre Dame recovered three. l 
Irish March Dowtt Field 

l ~ 
All of which doesn't relate Notre Dame's own really fine bit of football. A punting duel had
i 
lasted most of the first quarter, with Lusby's toe
t 
keeping the ball in Notre Dame's territory 
j most of the time. It was his punt that sailed out 
I 
! of bounds on Notre Dame's 12-yard line and two line plays that failed to get more than one yard 
that led to that first score. A penalty put Notre Dame on their goal line and Elder dropped back to punt. Kettclaar came through to drop him for a safety and two points. 
Binish ruined Morrissey's first pass and Rebholz spoiled the next one hurled by Niemiec.· But the next two came off. Niemiec tossed to the tall Colrick for 20 yards. Chevigny lost four· on a line-buck, but on the next play Niemiec again hurled the pigskin to Colrick an~ he clipped off 16 yards. · 
Behind great interference Niemiec ripped off tackle for 15 yards to \'V'isconsin's six-ya.rd line. Shay lost on a line-buck, but Niemiec got it back, and though Notre Dame was penalized five yards for offside, Chevigny once more crashed through for eight yards to \'V'isconsin's three-yard line. On the next play he went over for the touchdown, · but missed the kick. 
The third quarter began with a rush. After the 
· kick-off and a. punt, Notre 
own 20-yard line. Elder fumbled, but fell on the ball, losing twelve yards, and on the next play, Mor­rissey fumbled and Ganten­bein dove on the ball on the three-yard line. Bartholo­mew circled Notre Dame's left end for the three yards on the next· play,· but his kick was blocked. · 
\'V'ith the score 8 to 6 in its favor, Wisconsin took its second break V,;ithin two minutes. Backus kicked off and Chevigny punted. An exchange of punts followed, with Notre Dame in posses­

sion of the ball on its ·20-yard line. Conroy th.rew Shay for a three-yard loss. Chevigny fumbled and Harold Smith fell on the ball.. Smith made three yards through left tackle, Bartholomew added one on a thrust through right guard, Behr his left guard for three, and \'V'isconsin was penalized five yards for delay in calling the next play. \'V'ith the ball on the 20-yard line, Cuisinier tossed a perfect pass to Smith at his right and Smith crossed the line. Bartholomew kicked goal. 
Beh1· ·Passes to Cuisi11ie1· 

The third \'V'isconsin .touchdown came at the be­ginning of the fourth quarter, when threats at goal had been meager for some time, but with \Viscon-. sin in possession of the ball on its own 65-yard line Behr snapped a pass to Cuisinier, who caught it on the. Notre Dame forty-five-yard line. For twenty yards his interference dumped everything in sight .and for the last twenty-five he went it alone, and he went plenty fast. L. Smith's kick on the tryout for point was perfect. 
Notre Datne Navy 

l'vfr. K. K. Rockne may, or may not, be a psy­chologist. But, he did array his Fighting Irish in bright green jerseys for their battle with the United States Naval Academy. Mr. Rockne evidently sur­mised that garbing a band of native and adopted Irish in their native color is somewhat akin to show­ing a bull the Russian flag. 
The more plausible reason for the sinking of the Navy craft, however, is that Notre Dame played football as it should be played. The fumbles that marred and lost the \X'isconsin game were absent; the offense was powerful; the defense, steady. Navy was helpless until nearly the end of the ·game, when a march dowri the field, led by Lloyd, brought the Middies to the seven-yard line. Here they were stopped. 

No one will easily forget the fine work of John Chevigny, who played himself to exhaustion. His offensive work sparkled, and he broke through sev­. eral times to upset·some hopeful Navy ball carrier. Nor is Johnny Niemiec likely to go unremembered. He drove through the tackles like a meteor, drag­ging the Navy lineman five yards before he was 
7 0 

downed completely; his pass-to Colrick for the winning points was a classic. And Tim Moynihan, son of Erin, garbed in green-didn't .he make Irish eyes smile, and Irish voices cheer when he came down on the punts to tackle the safety man? And wasn't he smearing Na:vy pla.ys before they even got started? 
Captain Freddie Miller, always lead~ng, always. working, always fighting, as only he can, was a bulwark on offense and defense. Johnny Colrick, pass snaring demon, comes in for his laurel wreath. But, don't forget the rest of those Fighting Irish. Each one was a cog in the machine; each one de­serves all the credit possible. 
The Middies gave their best-and lost gamely. But they wore blue jerseys; Notre Dame had to wear another color and Mr. Rockne chose green. If you really wonder why a green jersey should affect men with names like Chevigny, Niemiec, Leppig, Herwit, and. the like, come close and we'll whisper the answer in your ears. 
They're Irish by association. 


John Colrick scores after receiving Niemiec's pass. 
Pass, Nie:miec to Colrick, Wins Ga:me 
By. wARREN BROWN 
Notre Dame's revamped football team gained enough yards at Soldier Field, to defeat three football teams. They. gained enough points to defeat but one, and by a score of 7 to 0. The stand of ..Navy Bill" Ingram's. Middies before a crowd of 120,000 persons was all in vain. 
Only for a few moments, in the ga.thering dark­

ness of what was a. long, drawn-out afternoon, 
did the Middies have a look-in in that ball game. . And even then it required the employment of 
high-powered glasses to discover that. 
From start to finish, Knute Rockne's ramblers . outrushed them·, outpassed them, and; in the first few minutes of the fourth pe­riod,-shoved over the touch­down that outscored them. 
Casting about for the 

hetoes of the hard fought combat-hard fought and winning for the Irish, harder fought, because it was losing, for the Middies ·-one ·strikes upon the names of Johnny Niemiec 
and John Chevigny. 
Niemiec Passes to Colrick 
Long after the work of the stalwart linemen and the supporting cast of the 
The Lineup 
Notre ~ame Navy 
Collins _____L. E.______ Moret Miller (c) __L. E•---~-Wilson Leppig _____L. G.~-----·Eddy Moynihan ___c.______ Hughes Law _______R. G. __ Burke (c) Twomey ___R. T. _______:.._ Giese 
V ezie --:-----R· E. ______ Beans 
Brady -----Q· B. ___ Whelchel . 
Bray ______L. H._H. W. Bauer .Chevigny __R. H.____ Castree 
Dew F. B. Clifton 
backfield is forgotten, the Notre Dame adherents, and their number toda.y was legion, will b~ talk­ing about the onslaught of those Johnnies, Niemiec and Chevigny. 
They cantered off tackles. They slipped around the ends. They, or rather Niemiec, passed, by way variety, and-when ·all else had failed-he passed by way of a. touchdown. · 
It was his. slanting toss over to the left side of his line, just out of the reach of some frantically clutching Midshipmen, that landed in the o':lt­stretched paws of Colrick, shortly after the final period had begun. · 
Cm·ideo Kicks Goal 

As Colrick happened to be standing on the right side ~f the Navy line at that time, there was _nothing much to be done about it. It was the touchdown that Notre Dame has awaited all after­noon and the touchdown that 120,000 spectators had just about despaired of ever seeing. 
Cariedo kicked the goal, just to pick up the extra point, and the ball game· was over, though Navy, fi.ghting to the last, opened up a belated rush that carried the Middies cause down close enough to Notre Dame's goal line to make the Irish following uncomfortable .for the first and last time ip the afternoon. 

Up until this last despairing effort, most of the ground covered by Navy was in the wrong di­rection. But even at that, they were as close, for all practical purposes, to scoring for three periods as were the Irish, though the latter, with marches 
. 
of sixty-five and fifty-six yards, one of thirty-two and a pair of twenty-eight yards, were gaining practically all the territory encompassed in the gray walls of Soldier Field. 
The twenty-eight ·yard march, and the last one, at that, was the one· that ma­terialized in the touchdown. 
I1·ish Pe1zalized 65 Ym·ds Some of the early efforts were neutralized. by the in­fliction of penalties, some sixty-five yards of these be­ing charged against the Irish, compared with twen­ty-five yards of the same ir-· ritating decisions against the 

Navy. In the course of the competition, Notre Dame rolled up something like 268 yards to Navy's 93, and much of the latter yardage ·wasn't c·om.:.. piled until after Notre Dame had scored: In fact, in the first half and a goodly portion of the sec~ ond, Navy was inside Notre Dame territory just twice, a~d then across the line that marks mid­field. 
Coach Rockne, who can always be depended t1pon to do the unexpected, started wi1at amounts to his first team, and the .. shock troops" .w~re conspicuous by their absence. 
01tiy 01te Fumble_ l1z The Ga;tte 

The lads that-started for Notre Dame hung on until they were physically unable to continue,.and Chcvigny, one of the two heroic figures of the victorious cause: remained on the job until he had to be carried from the field. But before he left, Notre Dame had seven points and Navy had none. 
Notre Dam.e 0 Georgia Tech 13 
A real team takes victory modestly and defeat without an alibi. Georgia Tech has a powerful teafl.l this year, while Knute Rockne's machine is in a stage of development. 
Tech scored in the first five minutes by means of a long pass and then a short one, with Durant doing the pitching and Thomason and Mizell on the receiving end. 
These throws brought the ball to the three­yard line, and Mizell took it across for the touch­down. Mizell kicked goal. That ended the scor­ing 'till two minutes before the close of hostilities, when a Tech manwhose name is Father Lumpkin, caught one of Niemiec's passes and sprinted to the Irish three'-yard line. He scored on the second pla.y. 
The. Irish offense was strong, and the Notre Dame backs penetrated the Georgian's 10-yard line twice, only to be thrust back or to have passes grounded in the -end zone. The Gold and Blue missed sorely the presence of a plunging full-back. 
Not :in iota of credit is to be taken from Tech, however, their passing attack was dev;stating in its power; their line, especially the giant. center and captain, Peter Pund, charged through and dumped secondary consistently. 
And our Fighting Irish did justice to their name, too; Chevigny and N~emiec played their heads off; Billy Dew gained much yardage; John Colrick snagged several beautiful passes from Niemiec. But it was not our day. 
Tech is to be congratulated on her splendid team. Thomason, Mizell and this Father Lump­kin were the main reasons for the victory, Mizell particularly being responsible for some sizeable gains. 
And Atlanta was a wild place the night of the game. The Engineers had beaten Notre Dame. But not without a bitter struggle. For Notre Dame, the sometimes beaten, always makes the opposition feel that they have been in some sort of battle. 
How did the student body feel about the de­feat? Almost to a. man, it welcomed home the team with a heartier greeting than would have been given, ha4 we won•. 
For,. win or lose, Notre Dame is behind her teams. And defeat, occasionally, is inevitable. 

Mizell stopped by John Law' (13). 
Georgia Tech's Line Turns Back­-Notre Da1ne, 13-0 
ATLANTA, GA., Oct. 20-Through a strong Tech Halts l1·ish Adva1tce offensive that caught Notre Dame napping in the 
Rockne had started his first string line and · first quarter, and a break, two minutes before the second string backs, but he now shot his regular gam~ ended, Georgia Tech realized its great am­backs into the battle, and at the opening of the bition today by defeating Notre Dame, 13 to 0. 
second qua.rter this quartet started an advance that After six years of trying, a grea.t Tech machine took the ball from the Notre Dame 25-yard line pounced on Rockne's youngsters and came through to Tech's five-yard line. Here Tech "held and with a victory as Atlanta went wild. 
kicked out of danger. Notre Dame missed its 
\Vith a score 6 to 0 against them after the first second chance when Chevigny fell on the ball eight minutes of the game, the Irish fought with on Tech's nine-yard line after· Dunlap, kicking everything they had, and threw passes galore in from behind his goal, fumbled and battled the ball the last half in a frenzied into the playing :field. Nie­effort to overtake the engi­
miec and Chevigny were neers. It was one of those 
dropped for losses and two

The Lineup 
passes failed. kin in the last minutes of 
passes, intercepted by Lump­
Not~e Dame Georgia Tech 
·The Notre Dame passingplay, that led to Notre 
attack was upset by the Dame's complete undoing. 
Collins _____L. E.____ Holland 
rushing of the Tech for­Lumpkin carried the ball to 
Miller _____L. T.______ Maree 
wards and in the final quar­

Law _______L. G.__ Westbrook
the Irish three-yard line and ter, Lumpkin intercepted
Moynihan ___c.________ Pund
after Randolph had plunged 
two tosses and Dunlap one. for ayard, Lumpkin carried 
Leppig _____R. G.____ Drennon. 
Niemiec and Colrickthe ball over. Mizell kicked 

Twomey ___R. T·---~--Speer 
were responsible for most ofgoal. 

Vezie ______R. E._____ Wadley 
the yardage ga.ined byNotre 30,000 See Game 
Carideo ____Q. B._____ Durant 
Dame, though -Dew and More than 30,000 fans 
Chevigny gained heavily on witnessed the game, which 
Mullin _____L. H.:....______ Mizell 
running plays. D.rennon,

Montroy _:__R. H.___Thomason 
was replete with football Mizell and Lumpkin were
Savoldi _____F. B.~--Randolph
drama. Time a.fter time, outstanding for Tech. Notre 
· Notre Dame had splendid 
Dame was weakened early in chances to score, but always the first period when the T echs rallied in the shadow of their goal and Johnny Law was carried from the field. hurled the Irish back. 
Yeah
The play that beat the Navy almost tied the I've read about the senate quiz,

score in the third quarter, when Niemiec's pass Tax reform and election biz,
barely escaped Colrick's outstretched hands on I peruse t4_e news from Shanghai,
the Tech· goal line. ­I've interest, too, in wet and dry, 
Tech's line was responsible for the victory and But what puts me in pesky frame 

twice stopped the Irish,_ with the Tech 10-yard _ Is the scoring s!ump of Notre Dame~ 
__ line. The first Tech_ touchdown· came about five minutes after the ·game· got under way. A fumble 
Of polar tdps I've great concern, by Tech ga.ve Notre Dame the ball on its own 45­
For Mussolini dope. I year_n, ya.rd line, Law recovering. But on Notre Dame's 
I devour the tales of Balkan states, first attempt to advance the ball, a low pass frqm I dirge crime wave. within our gates, center caused Savoldi to fumble and Holland re­
But all of this I'd gladly skip covered for Tech. 
If Rockne'd find another Gipp:· 

A long pass from Durant to Mitchell took the I followed Eckener and his crew, ball to the Irish 16-yard line and a second toss, Chased Al Smith and Hoover, too, Durant to Thomason, brought the oval to the Dick Byrd's trip gives me a thrill, three-yard line. Randolph plunged for a yard and I waded through the ..M~c-Hagen" bill, Mizell went through center on the next pla.y for But here's what I would like to sec, the touchdown. Notre Dame, 90; Army, 3. PAUL FoGARTY. 
...:·· 


56 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928 
Notre Datne 
Drake 

Dusk was descending about the colorful cotil­. lion crowd, when the official in the white golf­
trousers banged his toy pistol to indicate that hos­
tilities between Notre Dame and Drake had offi­
cially come to an end. 
Coach Ossie Solem's, Drake Bulldogs were un­defeated before this game, but they were unable to unloose anything to match the strong Notre Dame attack, which functioned so smoothly, mainly be­cause of a boy, named Larry (Moon) Mullins. 
Mr. ~ockne, had been testing everyone in sight in his effort to find a full-back who could with­stand, at the same time the rigors of pounding a hostile line to shreds, and of stopping the efforts of the· enemy backs at, or nearly at, the line. of scrimmage. And with that marvelous intuition that is p·eculiar to him, «Rock" called Larry Mul­lins, who was a. half-back, and gave him instruc­tions: uNow, Mullins, when Tim Moynihan passes you the ball, you put your head down and gallop. \Vhen the other team has the ball, stay close to the line and help the boys toss the ball carriers backwards." Larry Mullins· carried out Coach Rockne's instructions to the letter. He smashed, 'pivoted and drove his way through the Drake line consistently.. Once, when he momentarily fum­bled the ball, he reached out and rccover:ed it, while he was in the grasp of a half-dozen Drake tacklers. Needless to say, the search for a full-back who IS a full-back . ended today. For Notre Dame has «Moon" Mullins. 
32 6 

But Notre Dame also has the Niemiec-Colrick combine which was responsible for the first touch~ down. 
Jack Chevigny smashed through center for ~ touchdown, just before the close of the half. Frank Ca.rideo crawled through a mass of blue and ·white_ jerseys for a third counter. 
Then Dinny Shay helped the cause with a tally. Mr. Dinny Shay is a real full-back, too, like Moon Mullins, the only thing against him being his weight. He is a bit light to absorb punishment for a whole game. But'he is a mighty valuable man, this ·~ninny" Sha.y. 
For the final Notre Dame touchdown, Joe Nash, who plays center, and who is as fast as a half-back; sprinted fifty yards after intercepting one of the passes that King was tossing about the premises. Nash had dropped back to help catch some of those throws, after King had completed a beauti­ful pass to Seiberling who eluded the Irish safety man for .the lone Drake score. It was the most spectacular play of the game. If Larry Mullin~ and Dinny Shay became incapacitated, we should suggest Joe Nash at full-back. He behaves like one when he gets a chance. 
The Irish line worked with the back-field and gaping holes were usually opened for the Notre Dame backs to crash through. And the lad who was crashing through most of the time was Larry . Mullins the converted half-back. 

(Left) , Col rick receiving pass (Right) The Bulldogs are having quite ~ time for touchdown. downing Mullins. 
!· r 

0 F F I CIA L F 0 0 T B ALL REVIEW -t· 9 2 8 
57 

Mullins Flashes Great Form for Fighting Irish 
By HARRY MAcNAMARA 
NOTRE DAME, IND., Oct. 27-Knute K. Rockne's battered Notre Dame warriors recovered their football poise, sense of direction and deception long enough today to crush Drake University's heretofore undefeated Bulldogs, 32 to 6. 
The Irish have not been defeated on their own historical battleground, Cartier Field, for thirteen years and the startling reversal of form uncorked by Mr. Rockne's charges enable them to uphold this football. tradition. 
Notre Dame, beaten by Wisconsin, held to a 7 
to 0 score by a mediocre Navy team and vanquished by Georgia Tech, came out of its coma with vengeance against Drake, a. team that came here keyed to the limit and expecting to win. 
Mulli11s 11t Stellm· Role 
The Bulldogs played good football against Notre Dame, but the fire and the spirit of the great Irish teams of the past were burning in the hearts of Rockne's crippled but inspired army, and it would not be denied. 
Larry Mullins, a rip-roar­ing sophomore youngster from Pasadena, Cal., con­tributed more individually 
Mullins got started again in the second period from his own 20-yard line. His personally con­ducted slashes through the line mixed ·with an occasional pass, swept the ball . down the field and over the goal line, eighty yards away for Notre Dame's -first· touchdown, a 13-yard pass, tossed by Johnny Niemiec and received by Colrick produced the score, but Mullins battering at the line had caused the Drake secondary defense to move in, in an effort to stop his march, and the completion of the pass was a simple matter. Nie-
The Lineup 
Notre Dame Drake Collins _____L, E.___ Delmedge Miller _____L, T,____ Shearer 
Leppig .:_____L, G.______ Jones Moynihan ___C, ___ Don Carlos Law _______R. G. __::_ Graustra McGrath ___R. T. ___ Holliday Vezie -~----R. E._____ Wensel Brady -----Q· B. _______ King Niemiec ____ L. H._____ Barnes Chevigny __ R. H._...:.__ Nesbitt Mullins F. B. ___ Seiberling 
to the recovery of Notre Dame's football poise, 
dire~tion and deception than any one else. 
This young man started his game a.t fullba~k, and his ability to play that position as it should be played gave Notre Dame the co-ordination that has been lacking in its previous games and which is so vital in its success. 
Mullins~ a. lanky fellow with· hands like hams, ruined Drake! His smashing, battering-ram as­sault kept the Bulldogs on the defense almost from the start. It was seldom that he failed to advance ·arid his _gains varied from one to twenty yards. 
\X'hat a fullback this fellow is. 
Ball 11t Drake T ~1Tit01·y · Mullins kept the ball in Drake territory throughout most of the first period. Once, Notre Dame had the ball on Drake's three-yard line, but a penalty and the failure of the line forwards to hold cost a golden scoring opportunity, Brady be-·· ing dumped for a five-yard loss on the fou~_th down. 
miec kicked goal from place­ment. 
Twomey recovered_ Von Koten's fumble on Drake's 47-yard line shortly after­wards to give Notre Dame a break and Mullins a chance to · resume smashing again. 
N ie11tiec Kicks Goal 
Three thrusts at the line netted a first down and Nie­miec and Chevigny man­aged to help keep the ball moving in the direction of Drake goal until it rested on the enemy 10-yard line. ·Chevigny busted. through his left tackle for the score and Niemiec kicked the goal. 

Mullins kept right on pounding away at the Drake line in. the third period. Eventually Capt. Miller recovered Barnes' fumble on the ·Drake 11..; yard line. Chevigny got six yards ~n his first attempt, a wide end run, and Mr. Mullins drove through center to the 6-inch line on the next play.· 
Carideo who .had replaced Brady at quarter-. back, sneaked through guard for the score.. -Pass Gives D1·al?.e Sco1·e 
Mullins, Chevigny, Niemiec and the rest of the Notre Dame regulars were yanked out of there by Mr.. Rockne ·a little later, and the shock troopers were given a chance to show what they could do. 
They did well enough at.that, in the final period, which saw them score two more touchdowns while Drake was scoring one, its only one. 
King _flipped a 25-yard pass to Seiberling from Drake's 20-yard line and the big Bulldog fullback outsprinted the Irish secondary defense to put over the enemy touchdown. . 
The pass was good for an advancement of eighty yards, a spectacular but desperate piece of business. 

OFFICIAL· FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928
58 
Notre Datne Penn State 
..The fellow with the Iron Mitt," is what they are calling him. Ordinarily his name is Fred-Col­lins, but he is no ordinary football--player. They taped and bandaged his wrist 'till it appeared as if he might be conce~ling a length of iron pipe under his jersey. Then Mr. Rockne sent him and ten other fighting Irishmen loose against a hungry Nittany Lion. The lion was no match for the Irish. 
The score does not indicate the superiority of the Rockne clan; Penn State was badly outplayed, and with the exception of a. few times, when a fellow named French got loose, the Notre Dame goal was never in danger. 
The first points came after a sustained march. down the field by Messrs. Niemiec, Chevigny and Collins. \X'hen the Penn State goal was qnly a few feet away, Frank Carideo ·crawled through for the touchdown. John Niemiec obliged with a placement kick for the extra point. The oth<:r 
9 
0 

points came in the fourth period when John Col­rick tackled Miller of Penn State behind the Quaker goal for a safety. 
The _return of Fred Collins to the line-up im­proved greatly the Notre Dame attack. ..The two Johnnies"-Chevigny and Niemiec, sliced through the. tackles and around the ends for repeated gains. 
Notre.Dame seemed at this point of the season,. to be at last hitting her stride. For the first time since the-Loyola game, Coach Rockne was able to master his full str_ength. 
The play of Eddie Collins at left end was spec­tacular. Once he crashed through a.nd embarrassed Mr. French by nailing. him twenty yards behind the line of scrimmage. On the next play, he re­covered a fumble. -It does appear as though· these Collins boys, :Fred and Ed, although not re­lated, are of some importance to Mr. Rockne's machine. 
Now, bring on the Army! 



OFFICIAL FOOTBALL "REVIEW-1928· 
59 

Notre D_atne Hangs 9 to 0 Defeat on Penn State Teatn 
40,000 See Victors La11d 18 First Downs to 3 by Nittany Lions 
By Gus STEIGER 
PHILADELPHIA, Nov. 3-The Irish are com­The Irish lacked a scoring punch thereafter, al­ing! \Vhat ma.y have been a more or less .puny though on two occasions, in the second· period, Notre Dame early-season attack is now a ·smooth­they were in the shadow of the enemy goal posts. functioning, powerful unit which today struck To start the last half, Notre Dame gave a sluggish terror and desolation into a supposedly up-and­exhibition, but got going again in the fourth period coming Pen!! State team on the neutral battle when the· play was entirely in State territory. ground of Franklin Field. It wasn't necessary for the Irish to go into the air 
The score, 9 to 0, a touchdown by Car~deo, the to any extent, so successful was their running 
· resulting point by Niemiec and a safety, does not game. But what passing offense they did use was tell the story. A crowd of 40,000 looked on in of no account. Nine times the Irish backs threw amazement while the two big tape and liniment the ball~ only one of whi_ch was comp_leted, State 
men of Notre Dame, Fred Collins and Niemiec, aided by Chevigny, tore through the Lion line for big gains, while the Bezdek running attack was halted at the line of scrimmage and the sup­posedly capable aerial offense was shattered to bits. 
N ot1·e Dame Li1le Superb 
\"\forking beautifully with their backfield was the Rockne line. The Irish's first line opened up big holes for their backs to tra.vel through, an~ let it be said those Irish backs took full advantage of their opportu­nities. They ran with a reckless abandon that would 
The Army Next 
N ot1·e Dame Pemt State 
. Collins _____L. E.______ Delph Miller _____L. T.____ Shawley Leppig _____L. G. _____ Zorella Moynihan ___C, ____ Eschbach Law ___.:_ ___R. G._____ Martin ·Twomey ___R. T.__ Panaccion Vezie ______R. E.____ Edwards Brady -----Q· B.______ Miller Niemiec ____ L. H.__ Diederick .Chevigny __ R. H .. ______ Wolf Collins ._____F. B._____ Hamas 
_ 
was even less successful in · the air, none of its nine heavies being completed. 
The. anticipate~ attendance of 65,000 fell short of this mark· due to the heavy 
· r~in which fell throughout the morning and in the early afternoon. 
N ot1·e Dame Gets Busy 
Chevigny took the open­ing kick and brought it back to his 27-yard line. Then the ambulance boys from the \Vest swung into _action, tallied five first downs and shoved· over Caride-o, who· had relieved Brady, who was hurt, for the score. Niemiec, . · Chevigny and Collins alter-

not be downed by merely one tackler. nated in carrying the oval. · · · 
Only once did Penn State threaten. Only once The Irish .got a big break when State held on . did the Keystone Staters have a chance to. get their ten-yard line, bl}t the Lions were offside and warmed up over their team. This was early in 
the Rockne. team was given· a first down on the the second period, when young ·Cooper French. 
five-yard line. Niemiec swung ·wide and went to substitute quarter-back, by a personally conducted 
the one-foot mark from where Carideo plungedtour carried the pigskin to the Irish ten-yard line. 
over. . Niemiec made the extra poin_t on a place-From his six-yard line; where State had taken ment kick. . the ball on downs, he slid off tackle, got free an'd 
·Twice in the second period the Irish weresprinted to mid-field, where he . was brought knocking at the Lion goal only" to be thwarted.
down. Again h~ was off and dashed forty_ yards, \Vith one yard to g-o to make first down at the six­
but that was all. \Vith those two runs State was -yard li"ue, the State line _rose up to hurl back Nie-·
through for the day. miec and take the ball..
The· touchdown came right at the start of the game. Notre Dame took the kick-off and went Later,_Ed Collins grabbed a French fumble on straight 4own the field for a totichdown. There the Lions' 27-yard line. They carried the ball to was no halting them~ State's line was taken by. the 14-yard _line,. when State interfered wi~h a the Irish double ·passes and fake double passes be­Rockne receiver on a pass, but 'relinquished title hind the line of scrimmage. · ·to the oval on the 11-yard mark. 
Army Game Spirit 
rrA_rmy Pities No~re Dame/" _ A shot in.the Rev<?luti<?n~ry \Var may have been heard 'round the world, but the cry of «Army Pities Notre.Dame," was more than heard around the Notre Dame campus. First seen in a news­paper article voicing the attitude of the Army · coaches about the game, the cry was taken up and challenged mightily. The campus was aflame with torch-flares, and the cold autumn night was filled with the war cries of three thousand aroused stu­dents. There were pep meetings every night, the week before the game. The entire school was afla"me with the fires of v~ctory. The residence halls vied with each other in taking up the chal­lenge of the haughty Army. It was the greatest show of enthusiasm ever seen at Notre Dame. \'{Then the team left for the East, the student body to a man, wished them «good luck," and sent them away with the cry of «Beat Army," ringing _in their_ ears. 
Then came Saturday morning. Two thousand 

Notre Dame men knelt in Sacred Heart Church and p·ra.yed that, God willing, the Army would be humbled. Father Hugh O'Donnell, remembering other years-paid the highest tribute possible to ·the men of Notre Dame-by telling them that it was undoubtedly the greatest show of real Notre 
Dame spirit he had ever seen. 
Saturday afternoon, the Fighting Irish, rose to 
great heights and humbled a po:werful Army team. 
Sunday night, five thousand people welcomed back 
the triumphant Irish. 
Army, you may well fear Notre Dame, and 
fight against Notre Dame, and try with all your 
might to humble the Fighting Irish-but never 
again «pity Notre Dame." For Notre Dame will 
never be pitied. Not even by the greatest Army 
team in history. And the same Notre Dame spirit 
that guided George Gipp in his immortal, vic­
torious attacks against . the Cadets, inspired the 
Fighting Irish of 1928 to-Beat the Army. 


OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928 

Beat the Army! 

Fred Collins 


The Send-off. 
Notre Datne 12 Artny-6 
\Vall Street was betting two to one on Army. Press dispatches said that «Army pities Notre Dame." The terrible .. Red Christian" Cagle was primed and ready to trample the Notre Dame for­wards and out-run the Notre Dame secondary. The game was ccin the bag" for the Corps. 
Neither \Vall Street rior the press nor the Cadets knew that the Notre Dame campus had been aflame with torches and flares. They didn't know that three thousand Notre Dame men were· as one in their cries of uBeat Army." They didn't know that the super coach, Knute K. Rockne, was bring­ing a band of grim young stalwarts eastward with the fire of victory in their eyes. They forgot that Notre Darn:e is always an unflinching, driving, ·fighting foe. Army will never again pity Notre 
Dame. -·-· 
It was a glorious, glorious victory. Th~· A~my forwards were more than out-played; they were so badly bruised by the terrific, driving, Notre Dame offensive that almost the entire line had to 

be replaced before the game was over. The ~cRed -christian" was bottled up completely, except for a few minutes in the final quarter. It was only after Johnny O'Brien had made himself famous by falling over the goal with the ball after re­ceiving a pass from Frank Carideo, that Cagle, was able to get away. He ran like a demon, over the white chalk-marks to the shadow of the Notre Dame goal. But he too succumbed to the power of exhaustion. To say the least, he had not had a pleasant afternoon, and dejectedly and wearily, the great red-head trudged from the field. A minute later, the game was over. The fans who filled the great Yankee stadium cheered like mad­men-for Cagle-for Jafk Chevigny---:-for Johnny O'Brien-for John Niemiec-for Fred Collins­aild for Fred Miller. It had been a great game and a greater victory. The Army mule had been thoroughly licked-the Fighting Irish and a squat, bald-headed, ruddy-faced genius whose name is 
·Rockne-had triumphed. 

Johnny O'Brien crosses the Army goal for winning touchdown. 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928 
Army Crushed By Irish Drive 
By ALAN J. GouLD 
Associated Press Sports Editor 
YANKEE STADIUM, NE\V YORK~ Nov. 1o repea-tedly battered back, and Cagle, while he had -They may not call them the Four Horsemen this comparatively few chances to get loose, flashed year, but the roaming riders of Notre Dame, play­across the gridiron brilliantly enough to demon­
ing with all the dash and skill of their famous pre­strate his all-American ability. decessors, dealt death and destruction today to Cagle Could1t't Do it All the championship hopes of the vaunted West Point It was Cagle, with a 20-yard dash off tackle and eleven. a sensational 41-yard pass thrown to Messinger, 
In one of the most thrilling and dramatic finishes that paved the way for Johnny Murrel to plunge any gridiron grapple has witnessed this season, the over for the first touchdown of the game in the Hoosiers uncorked a smashing attack that beat the third period. It was Ca-gle who repeatedly brought Cadets, 12 to 6, in a sensational upset. down Hoosier ball-car.riers after they had punctured 
One of the greatest crowds 
_ in eastern football history, a jam of 86,000 spectators, roared from the vast stretches of the big ball pa.rk as Knute Rockne's warriors outplayed, outfought, and outgeneraled the soldiers in unexpectedly decisive fashion. 
Notre Dame · won the game with a spectacular 45­yard forward pass, thrown by Johnny Niemiec to Jack O'Brien ina desperate thrust at the Army goal in the final quarter but it took all the defensive ability of the Hoosiers, as well as the final whistle to prevent th~ Cadets · 
from tying the score in 
the last minute of play. 
The Lineup 
Notre Dame Army 
E. Collins ___L. E.___ Carlmark Twomey____L. T.____ Sprague Law ___·____L. G. ___Hammack Moynihan ___C ...:. ________Hall Leppig _____R. G._____Humbert 
Miller--:-____R; T ·------Perry 
Vezie -~----R• E.___ Messinger Brady _____Q. B.______ Nave Niemiec ____R. H.____ O'Keefe Chevigny ___L. H.______ Cagle 
F. Collins ___F. B.____ Murrell 
the wobbling Cadet line. But the Red couldn't do it all by himself. The Hoosiers had too much punch. and drive for the Cadets to stop consistently. They came back, after Army had scored, with a smashing 37­yard march, begun after be­ing benefitted by a 15-yard penalty, tha-t culminated in the tying touchdown in· the third quarter. Jack Chev­igny took the ball ·over on fourth down from th~ one­yard line after three rushes had been stopped. · It was a similar crisis, fourth down and, this time, 25 yards to go, when Notre Dame scored its 
Cagle Caps Climax 

perio~. The Hoosiers had driven to the Cadet 16­The thrills that were pack~d into the last half yard Il,l~·,tk, but Jack Chevigny, phuiging half-back, came to a climax as Red Cagle, ·the Army's great fuinblea'a ·bad pass and had to be carried from theball-carrying ace, raced 55 yards up the field from field .;fter_:the strambl~ in which he recovered itkick-off, then swirled around end to the. Hoosier. 
for a. 16~yar~ loss.· . Making a desperate gamble,I 0-yard line.. Here the famous redhead, who had Niemiec dropped back to his 45-yard line andengineered A;my's first and only score, was with­hurled the B:a_lJ· .toward the goal line, and a rac~ngdrawn and the best his successor, Hutchinson, substitute end; Jack O'Brien, leaped high just as hecould do was work his way to the one-yard line reached tl~e: goal · line, juggled the pigskin for abefore the game ended. 
moment, ·t:_h~n· .clutching it firmly as· he plungedClose as the Cadets came to making it' a draw, across the~ last-chalk mark with a swarm of Armythey, nevertheless, taking the game as a whole, were tacklers on him. .
outplayed by a wide margin, to the confusion of· 
. A1'11zy Line is Outplajred

criti.cs and astonishment of most of the crowd. 
The· Army forward wall that had withstood· all 
Rockne's Ra.mblers, rising to the greatest heights previous shocks in helping to pile up six straight
they have reached this season, .got the jump on the victories was consistently outcharged and out­
soldiers from the start, kept them on the defensive played by the scrappy Hoosier line. Chevigny, Nie­
throughout the s·coreless first half and displayed an· miec and Fred Collins, plunging full-back,_ re~
attack that was superior in 'nearly every department. 
peatedly whirled and dashed through gaping holes
Cagle was the one bright star in the otherwise full eclipse of this powerful Army array as it was for substantial gains. 
second and deciding touchdown in the fourth 

OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928
64 
Notre Datne Carnegie Tech 
Some said the field was too treacherous for the smooth functioning of the Notre Dame attack. Others claimed that the Army game sapped the strength of the Fightin' Irish. Still others said that it was Carnegie's weight advantage that caused the first Notre Dame defeat on Cartier Field in twenty-th~ee years. 
The truth of the matter is this. The Skibos had a heavy, fast team. Their plays, some of them almost as old as the game itself, were executed with deception and speed. John Karcis, the 2 3 0­pound full-back was a defensive and offensive ..wiz." Harpster, Letzelter, Sweet...:.._all veterans of other years outdid themselves. · 
Is there any great wonder that such a team was able to ·outscore a team which had risen above itself a week before to conquer a haughty Army jug­gernaut? · · 
There should be nothing but admiration for Rockne's Fighting Irish. The Skibos swept down 
7 27 

like wolves and had two touchdowns within six minutes after the start of the game. · \Vhen Rock's men got going, they outplayed the Kilties ·for two quarters. During the third quarter, ·and again in the fourth period, when Jack Elder sprinted sixty­five yards on a lateral pass play, the Notre Dame attack had the Skibos at their wits' end. But they braced-and won. 
Of course it is a sad thing for the sentimenta­

lists-for the· Irish to be beaten on Cartier Field. 
And yet, it had to come some time.· It took a 
great team to beat Notre Dame; the team fought; 
Fred Miller fought; so did Chevigny, and Johnny 
Niemiec-'till he had to be carried off. They all 
fought-every one of Rockne's men. They have 
nothing to regret. A cheer for a great Carnegie ·Team.­But our hearts are with our fellows. They gave all they had-and lost gamely. Rock is proud of them, an~ so are we all. 


65

OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928 
Carnegie Upsets Notre Datne Tradition Wins, 27 to 7 
By ARCH WARD 
Chicago Tribuue Press Service 
NOTRE DAME, IND~, Nov. 17-Never did a football team fight harder than Notre Dame on the mud and water of Cartier Field today. But all the fight and all the courage the Irish could de­velop was inadequate and they went down in de­feat before a big, powerful team from Carnegie, 27 to 7. 
The Scotch from. Carnegie made history in their victory over the Irish. They are the first to de­feat Notre Dame on its home field in 23 years. This is the first Rockne coached eleven that ever 
has been on the losing end three times in one season. 
Game Settled at 01tce 
Notre Dame, apparently suffering from anti-climaxi­ties, following its victory over the Army; fou1;1d out early in the first quarter that Carnegie was every bit as good as the scouts had re­ported. Notre Dame kicked off to Carnegie's 30-yard line and after two line plays, failed. Harpster flipped.a pass to Rosenzweig who raced down the right side of the field to.Notre Dame's 21­yard line where he was downed. The play was timed perfectly, Rosenzweig, play-
Irish Gloom 
N ot1·e Dame Carttegie 
Colrick _____ L. E. _ Rosenzweig Miller _____ L. T. ____ Schmidt Leppig _____L. G. ___ Lovewell Moynihan ___c.____ Mielzener 
Law -~----R• G.____ Dreshar Twomey ___R. T. ~-Highberger .Vezie _____R. E._____ Sweet Brady ______Q. B. __.:.. Harpster 
Niemiec ____L. H.------Eyth Chevigny __R. H. ___ Letzelter Collins _____F. B. ____ Karcis 
ing left, cut across behind the Notre Dame line, outsped the Irish secondary ·and caught the ball at his finger tips. On the next. play Letzelter crashed off left tackle for a touchdown. Harpster's kick was low. 
Even this whirlwind attack camed no .conster­nation in the Notre Dame stands. But the situation became serious a moment later when Eyth of Car­negie intercepted Niemiec's long pass on Notre Dame's 3 8-yard strip. Eyth and Karcis made it first down on the 21-yard line and again the Scotch were hammering at the Irish goal. . 
Capt. Miller of Notre Dame stopped Karcis but on the next play Letzelt~'r raced to the five-yard . line. Karcis crashed to the one-vard ma~k and on the next play H1rpstcr scored. He ~lso kicked goal and it was Carnegie, 13; Notre Dame, 0. 
E11d A1·otm.d Scores Agaitt 

The first quarter was·hardly over before Steffen's 
men again were menacing Notre Dame's goal. The goalward march started when Harpster caught a punt on his 28-yard line. It didn't end until Rosenzweig planted the ball behind the line for a touchdown. It was an end 'round play with Ros­enzweig .carrying the ball that brought the score. That play had been fooling the Irish all the way. Harpster kicked goal and when the teams left the field for the half, Carnegie was out in front, 20 to 0. 
That score would have discouraged almost any 
band of athletes. But not Notre Dame. The team's indomitable ·fighting spirit made it appear for a moment in the third quar­ter like it might come back. 
·Moon Mullins, a substitute 
half-back, on the third play · of the third quarter, scooped up the ball which Karcis had let slip from his hands and . sped 1 0 yards to the goal. Niemiec kicked the extra 
point. 
Mullins, a moment la.ter, fell on another fumble and Notre Dame started amarch down field that seemed to have continuity. It ended on the 25-yard line in a vain 

attempt to score thrc:>ugh the air. 
Canzegie Sco1·es Agaitt 

Ca.rnegie's final touchdown was the result of a wide pass, Harpster to. Letzelter, that ·caught Rockne's.men napping. Letzelter had a clear field in his 23-yard sprint to the goal. · . 
Elder, sprinter, who replaced Bray in the Notre Dame lineup, added a final thrill by breaking away for a 65-yard run ·shortly before the game ended. Johnny O'Brien, who caught the pass that beat the Army, was ·rushed into the battle in time to snare 
a. toss that put the ball on Carnegie's 2-ya!-"d line. 
Here.it was that Carnegie showed its defensive strength. Reilly fumbled and recovered. Elder was held for no gains. An attempted pass was knocked down and Notre Dame's last chance to score ended when a pass sailed straight into the arms of Harpster, who downed it b:!hind the goal line for a touchback. 
Notre Datne 14 SouthernCalifornia 27 
Fighting Irish. That's what they arc. And they look just as great in defeat as they do in victory. 
Although the powerful Trojan team was abl~ to outscore the scrappy Notre Dame squad, they'll never forget the great stand made by Rockne's men. A heavier and more powerful team than the Blue and Gold, Coach Howard Jones' aggregation had to give everything it had to finally eke out a victory. 
Twice the Irish line held for downs within the two-yard line. And during that second half, with . twenty points rolled up against them, the Rock­men launched a desperate drive that shattered the Trojan dream of a one-sided, decisive defeat, and made them thankful for their victory. 
It was a bitter, unflinching battle every inch of the way.. The vicious play made injuries frequent and several men· on both teams had to be carried from the field. 
And although there is nothing but praise for the great team of Trojan warriors, the courage and splendid spirit displayed by the Fighting Irish made them as glorious in defeat as they would have been in victory. 

Although outscored, not once was Notre Dame outgamed or outfought. For these reasons and be­cause after all, a Notre Dame team is a Notre Dame team, we feel proud indeed of Capt. Fred Miller and his courageous, splendid team. 
For U. S. C. Don \X'illiams and Russ Saunders were the luminaries. It was this duo that carried the ball sixty-seven yards for the first Trojan touchdown, and it was their splendid .play through­out the game that kept U.S. C. on top. 
For the Fighting Irish, every man in the game battled to exhaustion. They all fought 'till they could no longer stand. Niemiec, Chevigny, Tim Moynihan, all aquittcd themselves nobly, even de­feat. · 
Thus closed the 1928 season, spotted by four defca ts at the hands of four of the greatest teams in the nation. The record of Rockne's fighting team is one of which all Notre Dame men are proud, for though they went down in glorious defeat, they kept high, the traditions of Notre Dame. 

OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928 
Trojans Battle Way ThrOugh Fighting RockneTeatn to Win 
By GEORGE SHAFFER 
Chicago Tribm1e Press Service 
LOS ANGELES, CAL., Dec. 1-A Notre Dame team that was gallant, resolute, tricky and alert collided with a University of Southern California team that was just as .gallant, resolute, alert, and that was a bit more tricky and powerful, and the result goes into football history as a 27 to 14 victory. for the team from the far west. 
It was a game that no Notre Dame rooter, keyed to the recollection of two past one-point victories over strong U. S. C. teams, need feel apologetic over losing. Two indomitable .stands, with their own goal posts at their very 
scored. U. S. C. kicked off and· a Notre Dame play located the ball on Notre Dame's 28-yard line. Moon Mullins at full-back tried a forward pass, but Steponovich, Howard Jones' running guard, tore in and batted the ball in the air. He juggled it frantically in an effort to hold onto the pigskin, which finally decided to nestle in his arms, and Steponovich romped 18 yards to the goal, with his intercepted pass. Hibbs place-kicked his second successive goal, after missing the first. 
The second half was a different story as far as 
scoring was concerned. · 
Notre Dame played sensa­

heels, one of which turned 
tional football in spurts.

back U. S. C. four times on 
Revenge Is· Sweet 
They outscored U. S. C. by

the two-yard strip, tells the 
. two touchdowns to one.

story of a team which was a 
· U. S. C. Notre Dame 
Sparkling i.t:J.dividual play

glorious fighter even if it did 
McCaslin _ _:_L. E.___E. Collins 
electrified the stands as one

not share in the victory. 
Hibbs (C) __L. T.__ Miller (C) 
after another of the players

Dreams Come Tnte 
Steponovich _L. G.____ ·Leppig 
of both teams were . carried 

. For Southern California, 
Barringerthe game. was everything in 
Galloway

the way of football dreams 
Anthony

·.come true. Tappaan
The victors cruised all over the field gaining yard­
Williams age with an attack which 
Thomas ___c.___ Moynihan 

off the field hors de· combat. __ R. G.______ Law 
Jack Chevigny, a fast­___R. T.___ Twomey 
running 165-pounder dug his cleats into the turf for 

___R.E.______ Vezie dashes that made Coach 
___Q. B.___ Carrideo 
Jones and the Trojans'L. H. ·Niemiec 

stands feel insecure in spite

mixed power and deception. 
Aspit ______R. H.__ Chevigny 
of the 20-point margin. In

Southern California scored 
Saunder ____F. B.___ F. Collins 
mid-field, after two fruitless

for the first time in the 
invasions of Southern Cal-

closing minute of the first 
period. Russ Saunders, full­back, plunged three yards over the center of the line. His scoring buck crowned a 67-yard march up the field on straight football, in which Saunders carried the ball five times for a total of 34 yards and \Villiams lugged the oval seven times for 37 yards. 
T1·oja11s Score Second Toucbdow11. 

Early in the second period U. S. C. put over a second touchdown. This was on a pass from Don \Villiams to Marger Apsit, after Notre Dame had stopped one series of line plays on its four-yard line, but could not restrain U. S. C. from rushing back up· a second time. But when Notre Dame's line because ironclad, \Villiams arched a basketball lob to Aspit on the two-yard line, and Jack Chc­vigny was just out of reach where he might have prevented Aspit from lazily stepping' across the goal. 
The third Trojan touchdown was carried across by Tony Stcponovich just two plays after Aspit 
ifornia.'s 3 0-yard territory, little Chevigny took the ball on a fake reverse and sped right through the field 51 yards to a touch-. down. It was a great display. The stands had waited for just such a. display of the unusual by one of Rockne's blue-jcrseyed horde and Chcvigny gave them a thrill every step. · 
After several exchanges of the ball ncar mid-field, Frank Caridco took a punt and returned it fifty yards from his own 25-yard line to the U. S. C. 25-yard strip. A little fellow named· Albert Gebert went in for Carideo at quarter-back. Half-back Elder and full-back Mullins wrestled and banged their way to the five-yard mark, aided by a five­yard penalty for off-side imposed ·against the Tro­jans. Nearly everybody on the South Bend team had a try at the touchdown opportunity, and on a fourth down Gebert, who is a slight fellow, evi­dently proved too small for the burly U. S.C. for­
. wards to grab, and he slipped through the center of the line for a touchdown. 

I-MORRISSEY 
2-SCHWARTZ 
3-JZOE 
4-MATHEWS 
5-1vfALLOY 
6-CULLAN 
7-CONLEY 
8-BLIND 
9-SVETI 10-STRIB II-STANLEY 12-KAPLAN 13-CAPTER 14-KEENEY 15-LAGURA 16-KELLY 17-AMELING 18-CAVAN 
19-COHEN 20-DE Russm 21-0'CONNELL 22:-STRAND 23-CARROLL 24-KoKEN 
2 5-J. MACKEY 
26-KELLY 27-MURPHY 
28-A~DRESS 
29-SMITH 30-COOGAN 31-BLOEMER 32-HILTON 33-ROGERS 34-Zoss 
3 5-BONESACK 36-MILLER 37-\Y/ISE 
I 
3 8-COVINGTON 
39-SEIDEL 
40-WALSH 
41-BURICK 
42-HALAHAN 
43-KRAMER 
44-CRANDELL 
45-CoNNORS 
46-\VooDs 
47-HoFF 
48-BRILL 
49-MURPHY 
50-TIERNEY 
51-NEWLAND 
52-ARMOUR 53-RILEY 54-CAHILL 55-HODGKINS 5.6-CARMODY 57-BRADLEY 58-FoLEY 59-CAVANAUGH 60-McNAMARA 61......;..P. MAcKEY 62-MALONEY 63-FLYNN 64-VANROY 65-MAHONEY 66-CONNERTON 67-SHEEKESKI 

Freshtnan Football 
Throughout many a long, weary, autumn after­
noon, . a squad of grecn-jcrseyed a.thletes went through their paces on Cartier Field-contributing their bit toward the making of the great varsity eleven which represented Notre Dame on the gridiron this fall. Forever striving to check the varsity's onslaught in scrimmage, charging val­iantly against a mighty blue wall, running the ·gauntlet through lanes of determined varsity. tacklers-that is the lot of the freshmen football 
player. 
The famous phrase, ..To the vi~tor belongs the spoils," coined by a certain distinguished Tennes­see gent_lcman, never bore greater significance than it does in the case of freshman football. What­ever honors are won in victory; whatever plaudits arc merited in glorious defeat; whatever distinc­tions arc achieved in the national acclaim of sports critics-these arc bestowed upon the varsity, re­flected of course, to a minor extent, upon the Re­serves. But no one ever thinks of giving the freshmen credit for their contribution to the big team's success. Nobody, except those intimately connected with Notre Dame football," ever seems to appreciate the fact that the freshman team con­stitutes an important cog in the university's foot­ball machinery. 
To serve as cannon-fodder, day after day, for heavier, more experienced varsity teams; to for­get old plays and learn new ones with the advent of each additional enemy on the varsity's schedule, that is the lot of the freshman. And in general, to suffer the abuse and scorn which are the lot of every freshman who ever ripens into a genuine upperclassman-these are ordeals which only those who have experienced them ca·n fully understand. 

OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928 
But the men in· green do all those things for a pur­pose. They realize that no outstanding feat which they individually may perform ever fails to escape the attention of their supreme coach, Rockne. Many an athlete earned his monogram indirectly during his freshman year. 
But the ideals which guide the average fresh­man player are not alone ·subjective. He realizes that he is rendering material assistance in the build­ing up of grea.t N otrc Dame elevens. He knows that the very men who knock him about daily make up his team, that their victories are his vic­tories; and for this purpose, he is willing to exert his greatest effort.s in order to help produce a super varsity. 
Early in September a small army of some two or three hundred ambitious yearlings responded to Coach Poliskey's call for candidates. By a gradual process of elimination, the multitude was reduced to the neighborhood of forty players, and approxi­mately this number will receive their well-earned reward in the form of the coveted .. 1932" nu­merals, blazing forth upon their manly chests. Poliskcy encountered considerable difficulty in ar­ranging the various individuals of the mob of can­didates according to their athletic talents. As usual, a large number of ~igh school stars, prep school captains, and others of the scintillating spe­cies were represented, most of whom had widely di­vurgent ideas regarding the proper procequre in the game of football. But order soon prevailed;. the principle known as the survival of the fittest was given free rein; and before long a substantial frosh team was ready ·to take the field. 
Until a few years ago, it was customary for the 
freshman class to hold a formal dance called the 
.. Freshman Frolic." But it seems that certain 
frosh became too frolicsome; and thereupon the 
university ~uthoritics definitely legislated against the formal frolics of freshmen. Thereafter, in order to furnish an outlet for the store of surplus energy lying dormant in their anatomies, it was decided that the freshmen should annually 'indulge in a friendly game of football with the varsity, the week prior to the regular opening of each season. -It was in this year's .. frolic" that the freshmen showed their greatest power, holding the varsity to a scoreless tic during the first quarter. Of course, ultimately they were crushed under a bar­rage of touchdowns, but this fact can hardly dis­
color their firs.t-quartcr achievement. 
In the course of the frequent scrimmages during 
the season, quite a wealth of promising material 
was uncovered from the freshman squad. Among 
the ends, Mahoney, Isoe, Host, and· Lagura were 
outstanding. Conners and McNamara showed up 
best at the tackle positions, with Van Roy and ·Malloy excelling as guards. At center, Abe Zoss gave promise of a bright future, while Bloemer and Rogers alternated with him a.t the pivot post. Swartz peformcd brilliantly at quarter-back, with Murphy as his understudy. Of the half-backs, Brill, Kaplan, and Kokcn were the most prominent. Great things are expected of Marty Brill who formerly was one of Lou Young's ball carriers at Penn. At full-back, Cahill and Sheekcski both manifested inclinations to take Freddie Collins' place. 
Much of the credit for the success of this year's frosh team is due to Coach Poliskey :who labored tirelessly to develop a representative yearling squad. Poliskey himself served three years on the varsity in the capacity of right tackle; and by virtue of h:s handling of the freshmen squad,-he has proven that those years were not spent in vain. 


OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW -·19 2 8 
70 

Interhall Football 
The Football Review would not be complete if a resume of the Interhall season were not presented. Long before the varsity teams were organized to represent the university on the athletic field, the students in Carroll and Brownson battled for the championship of the Main Building. The trophy, tradition tells us, was a barrel of apples awarded by the Prefect of Discipline to the victorious eleven. The interest aroused in the earlier days is still in bution to the success of the league. Most of these coaches have learned their football from Rockne, Mills and Keogan. Others have played Varsity ball in other institutions. In every case, the hall teams are under the supervision of leaders who are competent to handle men and are willing to give their afternoons to make the league function smoothly. Such a system must of necessity pro­duce results and the type of football played in the 
evidence. Today, Notre Dame fosters an Interhall League of which Notre Dame men justly feel proud. 
From the beginning with the Carroll Brownson rr.em­bers, the development of the league has been in keeping with the spirit of the Uni­versity. Sarin, Corby, Badin, (Old St. Joe Hall) were added to the circuit, and to­da.y there are two divisions of six teams each. Freshman halls make up one division while the upper class halls are included in the second division. During. the past season, over four hundred and twenty-five players have participated in regular Inter­hall games. On Thanksgiv­ing Day seven ·hall teams 

Final Standings in the lnterhall 
League: 
Division I 
\Yfon Howard ______:.._ ___ 4 Freshman _________3 Off-Campus I _____3 Carroll. __________2 \Yfalsh ___________l Brownson ________o 
Division II 
Won Lyons -----------5 
Sophomore _______ 4 
Corby --------~--~ 
Badin ____________l 
Off-Campus II ____o Morrissey ________o 
Lost Tied 
0  2  
1  2  
2  0  
2  1  
4  0  
4  1  

Lost Tied 
0 0. 
1 0 
2 0 
2 0 
3 0 
4 0 
past few years has been of the highest. The listless playing that characterized Interhall games a few years ago is no longer in evidence. Hall enthusiasm is excellent and clean play and. real foot­ball has marked every con-.· test. 
.We point with pride to the success of the league un­der Fr. Mooney's direction. He has done much to raise the standard of Notre Daine , foo.tball. The student body recognizes the services ·of co-operation of Physical Ed­ucation and Boy Guidance students, Varsity Men, and Varsity Coaches. \Yfc a-rc not unmindful of the fact that the spirit of Notre Dame has· played its part. We re­
invaded foreign fields to bring to a close the most successful season in the history of the sport. 
In former years, Interhall competition was not so well organized as it is today. Practice periods, dai.ly workout, and Coaches were not looked upon as essentials. Officials were drafted from the crowd on the side lines and the equipment con­sisted for the most part of stray bits of uniforms discarded-by the varsity. 
Looking back on .the past three years, we find a new order of things, and we feel certain that no other .university provides such a wholesome, rugged type of activity for its student body. 
Three years ago, Father Vincent Mooney, C.S.C. 
· was selected by Father \Yfalsh to take charge of the Interhall situation. He appuinted students ma­joring in.Physical Education and Boy Guidance to coach the Interhall teams. First-class equipment was secured and playing fields and faciliti~s provided. Competent officials arc appointed from the Var­sity squad and these men have made a· real contri­alize, too, that the players themselves are con­vinced that because of their participation in Inter­hall football they more clearly understand the Sportsman's Code. 
Keep the rules~ 
Keep faith with ~your comr.ade. 
Keep your temper. 
Keep yourself fit. 
Keep a stout heart in' defeat. 
· Keep your pride under in victory. Keep a sound soul, a clean mind, and a healthy body. 
In the play-off for the championship of the Intcrh_all League, Lyons defeated Howard by a. score. of 6-0. The game was played on Cartier Field and drew a crowd of five thousand persons · who watched the contest. This game was a fit­ting climax to the most successful season m the history of the League. 


OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928 
Managers 

AUGUST GRAMS 
Student Manage~ 
The proverbial one-armed paper hanger was never busier than A ugic Grams. There arc so many details that demand his attention that it is indeed a wonder how Augic docs such an excellent job of it. Tix:nc of de­parture, place of residence, time of return, distribution of student tickets, and a million other things arc some of the reasons why Augic never has a minute to spare. And yet he manages to take care of everything most satisfactorily. 
uRock" leaves everything in the way of details to Grams. And to see that everything goes right for every game, at home or abroad, to provide for housing, and care of visiting teams, is in itself a big job-but not too big for Augic Grams. · He'll find time for lots of other things, too. 
So when you think that it's a soft job-managing a Notre Dame football team, just think of a few of the things Augie Grams has to do. And if after thinkin'g, you ·still think it's easy-just follow Augic around during the course of a week-end during the season-and it's ten to one you'll not stand the gaff. 

Top row: M. Sweeney, D. Beck, R. Conley, \Vm. Dell. Era, Joe McKean, F. Davidson, J. Power, J. Petritz, L. Cambridge, J. Grams, J. Colville, Wm. Ryan, L. Gentili, E. O'Malley. Center row: J. Kelleher, T. Ewing, H. Conley, C. Spangenberg, R. Pfeiffer, J. Lauersman, C. \Vittman, E. Rich, J. Saunders, H. Moss, \'{1. Corr, J. Gill, R. Brown, \V. De St. Aubin. Lower row: H. Roehl, D. D. Halpin, G. Kennedy,J. Quinn, B. Conroy, F. Schoppman,.A. M. Grams, T. A. Ryan, A. Kegowitz, R. Hellrung, C. J. Carey, R. · Balfe, T. Asher. Missing: J. Hughes, B. Motsett, J. Ross, J. Franklin O'Marah, E. F. Cunningham, \V, \Vilbur. 
A Metnory Test 

"'·····.---·---r 

Rock and Harvey Brown 
Gus Desch 


Capt. Frank Coughlin Rog Kiley, et al Philbrook 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928 




Leo Logan 
Chet \Yfynne 
Eddie Anderson 


\/ 

Bob McGuire Garvey 

"Hunk" Anderson
Rog Kiley 



Gene Maul Tod Cotton 

OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928
74 


The Big Fire 

Glen Carberry Ed. Degree
! 
1I 

75

OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIE.W-1928 
Gipp ·of Notre Datne 
With W. 0. McGEEHAN 
Copyright, 1928, New York Tribune, Inc. 
E
VERYBODY has his favorite football hero, and the choice depends on the generation, the sector or the games that one has seen. There are those who will quarrel when anybody disputes the assertion that Jim Thorpe, the Indian, was the greatest individual player. In the Middle \Y/est it was \Y/illie Heston. In Army circles it always will be Elmer Oliphant. At Harvard they will point to the mileage covered by Eddie Mahan. Then we pass the Four Horsemen and come down to Red Grange. :Nlr. C .. C. Pyle, who managed him as a professional football player, never once denied that young Mr. Grange was the greatest of the great. 
This being near the annual Army-Notre Dame game puts me in mind of the greatest individual football player I ever saw, and that is as near as anybody can come to answering that question: "\Y/ho was the grea-test football player?" It always will have to be a matter of individual opinion. 
I am not going back very far in this instance, merely back to 1920, when .the Army-Notre Dame game was one of those minor affairs. There was no difficulty a.t all about getting tickets for it. The cheering section consisted merely of the cadet corps held at the post; whatever garrison and com­missioned personnel there happened to be and per­haps a few thousand of the wandering Notre Dame alumni and their frie~ds, which since have become legion. 
The game was held at the Point, and at that 
time the football field was near the parade ground. 
It consisted of the regulation field, surrounded by 
wooden stands running only a few rows back. 
The trains to \Y/est Point were not overcrowded 
and they were running no specials. In fact it 
was "just one of those fo'otball games," one of 
the perfunctory contests through which the Army 
ream had to run in the course of "pointing" for 
the Navy-game. 
In those days the games at the Point were nice, 
homey affairs, apparently signifying nothing much 
as far as uAll America" teams and football at large 
were concerned. Colonel Koehler, who always in­
sisted that Oliphant, of \Y/est Point, was not only 
the greatest football player but the greatest all­
around athlete in the world, used to be host to the 
handful of experts and inexperts making the an­
nual pilgrimage. 
I do not know of any return game ever having 
been played at South Bend, where the Notre Dame 
teams stay when they stay if they do stay. Bur­
this is neither here nor in South Eend. \Vfe had a 
pleasant tiine chatting over athletics and other matters with the colonel and then strolled out to .see the football game. 
As we understand it, it was to be something. in the nature of an exhibition or work-out for the Army. There were rumors of a weird sort of genius named Rockne, who had worked out some great theories on ~he new game of football, but this did not . seem to swell the crowd or increase the interest. 
Today they tell me tha.t nobody can buy a ticket to the Army-Notre Dame game Saturday. This may be true, because I have tried myself; but then I am not particularly persistent about these mat­
. ters. It is what the boys interested in the finan­cing of sports would call a sell-out. 
That day on the Plains, if I said there were 8,000 spectators I exaggerated. Saturday there will be 80,000 watching the Army-Notre Dame game. 
But they will not see what we saw squatted on the wooden sea.t of the "stadium" at \Y/est Point. \Y/e saw in action Gipp of Notre Dame. Always, I am willing to be convinced, but I do not ever expect to see on a football field as swift, as sure, as dynamic, as colorful a figure as this George Gipp, of Notre Dame. 
A Game of Actio11. 

This is only one impression, formed by only one game, but it seemed to me that Gipp of Notre Dame was the greatest "triple-threat" man I ever saw in action. I have heard of Galloping Ghosts and Four Horsemen running wild. But I never saw more action in a football game than I did in that one. 
It was all Gipp. He ran ragged through that Army line. He would worm through the sec­ondary defense. I say that it was all Gipp, for the Army seldom had the ball. The figures of the 
· score I do not recall. f can hold only the impres­sion of that spectacle. He was a slight figure, it seemed to me, no bigger than Eddie Mahan, but when. he drove at the solid Army line it !:>ent. or gave way. Understand that I do not believe that any man single-handed can play a. football team, but if ever there was a player who seemed to do it, that player was Gipp of Notre Dame. And it was no weakling or badly drilled Army team that faced him. · 

I say that he was a great triple-threat man. He was more than that. He could punt, he could pass and he could run. More than that, he knew how to receive a pass, which is harder than throw­
{Continued on page 86) 


Harry Mehre 
Rip Miller 
Reading from top . to bottom: Brown, Maher, .. Murphy, O'Berst, Berg­. man·, Vergara, Mayl, 
Reagan, Nappenberger. · 


Paul Castner Paul McNulty 
ll·I 
u,;_,l 

rt 
The Four ·Horsetnen 
0 
~ 
~ 
,..... 
() 
,..... 
> 
t'-4 
~ 
0 0
.., 
t;d 
> 
t'-4 t'-4 
~ 
< ~ 
,..... 
~ 
~ 
I 
.... 
\0 
N 
00 
""! ""! 
r -----· ·------··-·· . ·----·-·····---------------··-··------------­
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928
78 

( 
i. 
I' ! 

Miller, D. Layden Crowley Stuhldreher Hunsinger Miller, E. Kizer \Vfalsh \Vfeibel Bach Collins 

Noble Kizer Frank Thomas Gus Desch 




Frank Reese Neil Flinn 
0 F'F I C I A L o..p 0 0 T B A.L L REVIEW -1 9 2 8 



Bill Cerney Chuck Collins 

Jimmy Crowley

Do.n Miller . Elmer Layden 

Harry Stuhid~eher 

Red Maher Gene Mayl John \Veibel 





Bernie Livergood Dutch Bergman Bill Voss 


George Vergara Bob Reagan Bernrie Coughlin 
(' 
((19 2 3 '' 


Top row: Kizer, Crowe, \Veibel, Collins, Enright, Layden, .Cerney. Next row: Rockne, Conn"ell, Bach, Vergara, E. Jvliller, \Valsh, Hauser, Hunsinger, Manager. Next row: Crowley, Murphy, Oberst, ~rown, Mayl, Maher, Bergman, Nappenberger. Bottom row: Don Miller, ..\ Stuhldreher, Reese. · · 
0 
1-Ij 1-Ij 
~ 
(') 
> ~ 
~ 
1-Ij 
0 0 
~ 
td 
> 
~ 
~ 
::0 trJ 
< 
~ 
trJ 
~ 
I 
....... 
\0 
N 
00 
00 
....... 
·--~o~ u-·.~~-· ~ ..,.~·~• •• -~. aa---------..--~-,.•-•··--·---·---~~f---~--• 

The Millers 

In The Good Old Days 
jl 
I 
II 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928 
King Knute 
By FRANKLYN E. DoAN, Sports Editor of tbe South Bend News-Times 
I
F SOME renowned Italian painter could escape 
the grave which holds him, and run up the 

ladder of four or five centuries, he might choose 
to visit South Bend and sketch a canvas that would 
be half a portrait and half an allegory. The alle­
gory would typify Speed, Power, and Spirit, while 
the portrait would set off the features of a. squat, 
bald-headed man who is known as Knute K. 
Rockne. 
This American football public, which lets its pulse beat in staccato movement once autumn has come around and which stampedes the thresholds of thousands of stadia the land over throughout the autumn, would acclaim the canvas. of the Italian master for it would be an ~nusual one. And the name-plate which the ~rt galleries would tack on the picture would be: ..Notre Dame Foot­ball and Rockne." 
It wasn't so long ago-seventeen years to be exact-that a young fellow came down to Notre Dame from Chicago, tried out for the band and showed the chemistry profs that he knew his stuff. But playing in the band was not in the sphere of Knute Rockne and. he decided to try for the foot­ball. team. Apparently. that was his element, for within a few years the whole football public grew to know him and to love him. 
Rockne was one of the fellows when he was at Notre Dame, but he was not an ordinary fellow. He lived in Sorin ..Dungeon," took part iri a. few mock murder trials and did a little pole-vaulting for the track team. But once he was on a· foot­ball ·field he was an inspired rob~t, prancing down the greensward. un.der punts, boxing a tackle until he couldn't move, or grabbing a pass out of the air. to run .through the opposition for a touchdown. 
It has. been just 17 years since King Canute first played on the Notre Dame varsity. '\W'ay ~ack in 1911, when football was as nationally unknownas archery. is now, Rockne played on the first great team of the Irish. \W'ith him were Gus Dorais, Bergman, Growley, Fillbrook and Feeney. They beat Pittsburgh, \W'abash, and Marquette thatyear, and, in the following season, that of 1914, knocked off the same opponents. Notre Dame football was. beginning to .amount to something. . 
And then in .1913:.._it just goes to show that .. 13" isn't such a'. tough number after all-these Fightin' Irish, who weren't known by that nam~ then, made the wiseacres sit .back. on their swivels and wonder: ..\W'ho in 'ell arc these upstart~ frollJ. the middle west and what .do they .think they~rc 
doing?'~· · · It was in that year that the. famous Rockne-
Dorais passing team-the first combination that ever attempted the forward pass in American foot­ball-and the canny Swede Rockne was proponent of the idea--it was then. that these two Notre· Dame athletes tramped east with a great team and swallowed the invincible Army team 35 to 13. The Army was surprised, the east was piqued, and the football country-at-large didn't know what to do 
about the whole thing. 
But the country soon found out what to do. Jess Harpster had. been coaching Notre Dame from 1913 to 1917 and Notre Dame numbered among its victims such established elevens as Penn State, Army and Indiana.. During Rockne's term as a player the outfit was not once defeated. 
\W'hen Jess Harpster returned to his far-western ranch in 1917, Knute Rockne, who had been act­ing as an ·assistant coach and chemistry instructor, became. generalissimo of the Notre Dame forces. If the country didn't know what to do about these young upstarts before, it was soon to learn that the wiser thing to do was to admit that a genius had pitched camp with an army of br:ain. and brawn, and had set out to do some tall surprising. 
For two years Rockne developed his team and won important games. Gipp, Kirk, Anderson and Smith were among the great luminaries turne.d out by the peerless coach. · In a period of three years from 1919 through 19.2l, Notre Dame lost one game and that to the Army. Ncbra.ska, Indi~na, Army, Purdue and Northwestern were engulfed in this football tidal wave that had become a· na­tional figure .. Such resplende~t st~rs as Roge Kiley, . George Gipp~ :Ed~ie Anderson, Johnny Mohardt, Chet \W'yiuie, Buck Shaw and Frank Coughlin ~ere pili~g up vict_ori~s fo~ old. N:otre Da:me and building a priceless tradition that was to 
·inspire Notre Dame teams of the future. 
\W'hen 1922 rolled around and the football fans set their eyes ·o-n.No~re Dame to sec ;hat the now renowned Rockne would turn out, the Notre Dame coach was facing a real test. He had lost 13 of hi~ mo~t depen~able stars and the squad which ca~c up was not. promising. yet the inyincible master won eight of. his ten games and ~is team scoreq 170 points that year.. · 1;'hc following year the Rockmen lost but one game and that to an .a.n<;:ient foe, Nehr.aska, by .a. close s_core.' Such powerful combinations as Princeton,· Army, Georgia Tech and Purdue were ground t<? the. earth under the r~:mgh-shod feet of Rock!lc's. men -Castnc·r, Cotton, Lieb, Carberry and their ~ates. 
Came 1924, laden wit~ destiny and augu~ing 
(Continued on page 94) · 

OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1928 

To See Or Not To See 
By wARREN BROWN 
Chicag_o Herald aud Examiuer 
Notre Dame, at. the time this space filling de­
vice is. being manufactured, has lost three football 
games, ·in one season. 
That sort of thing calls for much wailing, but 
doggone me, if I can find anything to squawk 
about, save that cage at the top of Cartier Field, 
that is called, for la,ck of other printable names, 
a press box. 
I can find no fault with the football team. I 
never could find fault with the coach. Even the 

cooking at Notre Dame appeals to me-but the ·press box! 
A reporter who has been drenched at a \Vfalker­
Hudkins fight, ·drowned at a Dempsey-Tunney 
fight, soaked at the closing game of a Washington­
Pittsburgh world's series, baked at a National Open 
Golf championship in \Vforcester, Mass., frozen at 
a · Michigan-Minnesota. game at Minneapolis, 
starved on any home-coming day at Urbana, Iowa 
City, Bloomington, Lafayette, or Madison, pop­
bottled at a crucial ball game in St. Louis, protests 
no more at conditions, if he can SEE what he is 
supposed to report. 
But out of that press box at Cartier Field, he 
sees nothing, after the top row of customers arrive, 
and begin to take an interest in proceedings. 
Mr. Rockne and his football men arc to blame 
for that. 
I can understand how a Chicago team, playing 

its usual run of opponents, on Cartier Field, would . permit a reporter to sec what it was doing, or rather what it wasn't doing. No one would be­come interested enough to stand up, or, if he did, his interest would not be sustained long enough, to keep him on his feet. But no .Notre Dame team 
can be watched quietly by any customer, no mat­ter what his leanings may be. . In the present season, I have been present at two games played on Cartier Field. 
I don't know yet whether it was Niemiec or Shay that scored a decisive touchdown against Loyola, of New Orleans. I might have known, if a lady with a large hat-and I didn't know there were such things any more (large hats, I mean)­rosc up and took me .out of the play, as well as Collins, or Miller, or any of the other MEN of Notre Dame, ever took out an opposing player. 
For the Carnegie Tech game, which I maintain, in spite of the visibility handicaps, was the greatest football game I have ever seen, it looked, at first, as if I might get a break. 
In the top row of customers, immediately be­fore me, there was an elderly lady, and a tiny one, at that. 
This lady announced, upon arrival, that the seat was comfortable, and she wrapped herself in a blanket, something after the fashion of a mummy. 
uwell, she's there for the afternoon," thought I. uAnd even if she does stand up, I can see over HER head." I sort of lorded it over the other inmates of the press ca.gc;who were contemplating fur coats, Mayor Thompson hats, late arriving customers, boy scouts, and other impedimenta. 
I don't suppose any of my readers have forgotten the game, or the start of it, any more than I have forgotten the finish, the middle, and the other sec­tions, if any. . 
Some gent in a red jersey flung a pass, and an­other one started down the field .... I heard after­wards that Carnegie Tech had scored. 
My friend, the tiny elderly lady, had arisen. She had climbed up on the seat. She had un­wound the blanket. She had begun to wave it. 
Try, sometime, to get a view of a football game, when someone is waving a. blanket in front of you. That may be great· stuff at a bull fight, but the presidential campaign is all over. 
The lady's escort was nettled. It seems that the elderly lady was a Notre Dame rooter. She waved the blanket at the wrong time. However, she had a defense that was a lot better than any Mr. Rockne's men were able to flash against a team that, on this particular day, was the greatest in the country. 
ui don't understand this game," she protested. uAnd if I don't keep on waving the blanket all the time, I'm liable to miss waving it when ·Notre Dame does something." 
And you just can't argue with a lady. As I checked back over my literary effort on the game, not only in the original report, but in a follow-up, I found that, of the Chicago corre­spondents, I alone had verged on . the hysterical. I thought it was a. heluva game, the greatest I had ever seen. But I was probably the only reporter who watched the game through a waving blanket. The point I would make, is that the press cage needs elevation, or Notre Dame football needs de­pression, arid I can't conceive the latter, with or without blankets. · 
.,

Go to 
California 
or anywhere West this winter!!/! via the scenic Overland Route 
d Splendid Trains Daily 
San Francisco Los AngelesOverland Limited Lbnited 
Only63-hourtraintoSan 63-hour train to South-Francisco. All-Pullman. ern California. All-I•uU-Extra fare. man. Extra fare. 
Gohl Coast 
ContinentalLimited Lbnited

68-hour train to Son 
Francisco ond Los An-68-hour train to San gclcs. All-Pullman. No Francisco. Los Angeles, cxtro fare. Portland. No extra fare. 
California l'Uail 
to San Franciscoand Los Angeles. No cxtro fare. 
Ask about our escortecl all-expenseCalifornia-Ha-waii tours. 
For complete information,/ares, etc., t()ritc to 

C. A. CAIRNS, Passenger Traffic l\lnnogcr 661 226 W. Jncl,son St., Chicago, Illinois 
CHICAGO~ 
NORTH WESTERN 
The Belt ofEverything inthe Belt of theWest RAILWAY 
Success to 

i' 
ji
The Fighting Irish 
I' 
1 it 
j: 
!' 
I 
·A•. ·W. M. 

Gipp·of Notre Dame 
(Continued from page 75) 
ing one. He was accurate with his drop-kicks, and he kicked all the goals from placement. \X'hen a ­player can do those things they usually try to have him save himself on the defensive. But Gipp also was a great defensive back. 
\X'henever the ball was downed it seemed that the _announcer always was shouting through his megaphone, .. Gipp kicked, Gipp passed, Gipp through tackle. Gipp over for the touchdown." It always seemed to sound the note Gipp. Gipp, of Notre Dame. 
It could not have been that Gipp was in all the plays during the game, but somehow I seem to hold that impression .of this slender youth standing back of his line for an instant and then going rap­idly somewhere in the right direction. 
011ly 011e Sig1zal 
The story is that the Army team between halves was told not to watch the ball, but to watch Gipp. It amounted to the same thi~g, for where the ball was, there always was Gipp of Notre Dame. 
Ring Lardner, whose passi~n is football, was at this game. Said Mr. Lardner, ..Any dumb-bell 

FASTER To 
C"_HICAGO 
Regular South Shore Line service to Chicago is now two hours and twenty minutes •••• extra-fast dining-car train leaves South Bend station, Michi­gan St. and LaSalle Ave., at 7 A. M., and goes to Randolph St., downtown Chicago, in two hours and five minutes •••• 5:15P.M. dining-car train out of Randolph St. makes the same fast time returning •••• 11:15 P. M. after­theater train out of Randolph St. covers the distance to South Bend in two hours and ten minutes •••• This is the kind of service Notre Dame has alw~ys wanted •••• and now it is here 
•.•• on the South Shore Line. Call Mr. Oberfdl or Mr. Veach at 2-5764, South Bend, or Mr. Jamieson at Central 8280, Chicago, when you have a trip in ~ind. 
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD 

could understand the signal of the Notre Dame team. They ·have only one signal and one forma­tion-that is, to have the· team line up, pass the ball to Gipp and let him use his own judgment." 
They say of Babe Ruth that, whatever he has done outside, he never has made the wrong move or gesture on a baseball field. It seemed to me that Gipp was that way on the football field. If the intent had been to pass and his receiver was not in place Gipp would skirt the end and get through that broken field somehow. ·He seemed to be as hard to hold as an eel. 
The Hero of Notre Da11te 

Gipp died while he still was an undergraduate of Notre Dame, died from pneumonia, contracted while he was touring with the--"..Wandering Irish­men." I do not think that he even. was able to round out his football career. 
\X'hat manner of youngster he was personally, 1 never knew, but I imagine that he was of the type of Hobey Baker, of Princeton. I suppose that the· men of Notre Dame remember him with the same emotion with which the men of Princeton remem­ber Hobey Baker. They should, especially when the Army-Notre Dame games roll around. 
He was a great player,-that Gipp of Notre Dame.· 
Cotn.pli111.ents of a Friend 


87 

Notre Da1ne T eatns Under Rockne 
1917 Oct. 6-Notre Dame, 55; Kalamazoo, 0. Oct. 13-Notre Dame, 0; Wisconsin, 0. Oct. 20-Notre.Dame, 0; Nebraska, 7. Oct. 27-Notre Dame, 40; S. Dakota, 0. Nov. 3-Notre Dame, 7; Army, 2. · Nov. 10-Notre Dame, 13; Morningside, 0. Nov. 17-Notre Dame, 23; Michigan Aggies, 0. Nov. 24-Notre Dame, 3; \Yf. & ]., 0. 
1918 Sept. 28-Notre Dame; 26; Case, 6. Oct. 2-Notre Dame, 67; \Yfabash, 7. Oct. 9-Notre Dame, 7; Great Lakes, 7. Oct. 16..:_Notre Dame, 7; Michigan Aggies, 13. Nov. 23-Notre Dame, 26; Purdue, 6. Nov. 28-Notre Dame, 0; Nebraska, 0. 
1919 Oct. 4-Notre Dame, 14; Kalamazoo, 0. 
·Oct. 11-Notre Dame, 60; Mount Union, 7. Oct. 18-Notre Dame, 14; Nebraska, 9. Oct. 25-Notre Dame, 53; \Yfestern Normal, 0. Nov. 1-Notre Dame, 16; Indiana. University, 3. Nov. 8-Notre Dame, 12; Army, 9. · Nov. 15-Notre Dame, 13; Michigan Aggies, 0. Nov. 22-Notre Dame, 3 3; Purdue, 13. Nov. 27-Notre Dame, 14; Morningside, 6. 
1920 Oct. 2-Notre Dame, 39; Kalamazoo, 0. Oct. 9-Notre Dame, 42; \Yfestern State N., ·0. Oct. 23-Notre Dame, 16; Nebraska, 7. Oct. 30-Notre Dame, 28; Valparaiso, 3. Nov. 6-Notre Dame, 27; \Yfest Point, 17. Nov. 13-Notre Dame, 28; Purdue, 0. Nov. 20-Notre Dame, 13; Indiana, 10. Nov. 27-Notre Dame, 33; Northwestern, 7. Dec. 11-Notre Dame, 25; Michigan Aggies, 0. 
1921 Sept. 24-Notre Dame, 56; Kalamazoo, 0. Oct. 1-Notre Dame, 57; Depauw, 10. Oct. 8-Notre Dame, 7; Iowa, 10. Oct. 15-Notre Dame, 3 3; Purdue, 0. Oct. 22-Notre Dame, 7; Nebraska, 0. Oct. 29-Notre Dame, 28; Indiana., 7. Nov. 5-Notre Dame, 28; West Point, 0. Nov. 8-Notre Dame, 48; Rutgers, 0. Nov. 12:....-Notre Dame, 42; Haskill, 7. Nov. 19-Notre Dame, 21; Marquette, 7. Nov. 24-Notre Dame, 48; Michigan Aggies, 0. 
1922 . Sept. 30-Notre Dame, 46; Kalamazoo, 0. Oct. 7-Notre Dame, 26; St. Louis U., 0. Oct. 14-Notre Dame, 20; Purdue, 0. Oct. 21-Notre Dame, 34; Depauw, 7. Oct. 28-Notre Dame, 13; Georgia Tech., 3. Nov. 4-Notre Dame, 27; Indiana, 0. Nov. 11-Notre Dame, 0; Army, 0. Nov. 18-Notre Dame, 31; Butler, 3. 
Nov. 25-Notre Dame, 19; Ca.rnegie Tech., 0. Nov. 30-Notre Dame, 6; Nebraska, 14. 
1923 Sept. 29-Notre Dame, 74; Kalamazoo,· 0. Oct. 6-Notre Dame, 14; Lombard, 0. Oct. 13-Notre Dame, 13; Army, 0. Oct.. 20-Notre Dame, 25; Princeton, 2. Oct. 27-Notre Dame, 35; Georgia Tech., 7. Nov. 3-Notre Dame, 34; Purdue, 7. Nov. 10-Notre Dame, 7; Nebraska., 14. Nov. 17-Notre Dame, 34; Buder, 7. Nov. 24-Notre Dame, 26; Carnegie Tech., 0. Nov. 29-Notre Dame, 13; St. Louis, 0. 
1924 Oct. 4-Notre Dame, 40; Lombard, 0. Oct. 11-Notre Dame, 34; \Yfabash, 0. Oct. 18-Notre Dame, 13; Army, 7. Oct. 25-Notre Dame, 12; Princeton, 0. Nov. 2-Notre Dame, 34; Georgia Tech., 3. Nov. 9-Notre Dame, 38; \Yfisconsin, 3. Nov. 16-Notre Dame, 34; Nebraska, 6. Nov. 23-Notre Dame, 13; Northwestern, 6. Nov. 30-Notre Dame, 40; Carnegie Tech., 19. Jan. 1-Notre Dame, 27; Leland Stanford, 10. 
1925 Sept. 26-Notre Dame, 41; Baylor, 0. Oct. 3-Notre Dame, 69; Lombard, 0. Oct. 10-Notre Dame, 19; Beloit, 3. Oct. 17-Notre Dame, 0; Army, 27. Oct. 24-Notre Dame, 19; Minnesota, 7. Oct. 31-Notre Dame, 13; Georgia Tech., 0. Nov. 7-Notre Dame, 0; Penn State, 0. Nov. 14-Notre Dame, 26; Carnegie Tech., 0. Nov. 21-Notre Dame, 13; Northwestern, 10. Nov. 26-Notre Dame, 0; Nebraska, 17. 
1926 Oct. 2-Notre Dame, 77; Beloit, 0. Oct. 9-Notre Dame, 20; Minnesota, 7. Oct. 16-Notre Dame, 28;.Penn State, 0. Oct. 23-Notre Pame, 6; Northwestern, 0. Oct. 30-Notre Dame, 12; ·Georgia. Tech., 0. Nov. 6-Notre Dame, 26; Indiana, 0. Nov. 13-Notre Dame, 7; Army, 0. Nov. 20-Notre Dame, 21; Drake, 0. Nov. 27-Notre Dame, 0; Carnegie Tech., 19. Dec. 4-Notre Dame, 13; U. of S. California, 12. 
1927 Oct. 1-Notre Dame, 28; Coe, 7. Oct. 8-Notre Dame, 20; U. of Detroit, 0. Oct. 15-Notre Dame, 19; Navy, 6. Oct. 22-Notre Dame, 19; Indiana, 6. Oct. 29-Notre Dame, 26; Georgia Tech., 7. Nov. 5-Notre Dame, 7;. Minnesota, 7. Nov. 12-Notre Dame, O;.Army, 18. Nov. 19-Notre Dame, 3; Drake, 0. Nov. 26-Notre Dame, 7; U. of S. California, 6. 
'· 
· The Cigar-Store Alumni And so, folks, it ail comes down to this final question: \Vhy bother about it? Football is getting
(Continued from page 42) 

into the big business class and the cigar-store 
tic paintings, will pipe up and ask how anyone alumni want more for three dollars than a first­could figure the 1928 Notre Dame teain a success. class pawnshop on the Lower East Side. (Pardon There arc three answers to the question and they 
my New York, maybe it's the Ghetto that I'm re­arc set in the following order: 
ferring to.) . 
(
1) It was a Notre Dame team. There are many who realize what a Fighting 

(2) 
It was a Notre Dame team, and, Irishman is. If you saw the Carnegie game--and 


(3) It was a Notre Dame team. you arc one of the unfortunates if you did not­Being a Notre Dame team means something. It you will realize that Notre Dame never quits and implies first of all that they are Fighting Irish. always has plenty of stiffness in the backbone right No spineless, back-sliding weakling among this down through the dying moments of the game. lot. They were all fighting men. No one can sa.y that he saw Capt. Freddie Miller 
That Army game was ·an a.pt illustration of just and his boys quit for a single minute of the 540 what Notre Dame spirit is. None of the cigar­minutes they played. If the eleven had lost each store alumni thought that the b~ys could come of its nine' games by scores of 80 to 0, the sea­through; none of the experts gave them a chance son would have been among the best, for no and the Army wore itself down with pity. previous team in the history of the school ever dis-· But there were a few who had faith and they were played more downright nerve. as follows: Knute Rockne, the team, t~e school as After all, a Notre Dame team is a Notre Dame a whole, and South Bend .loyalists. Well, everyone team. The whole country realizes that fact, and knows what happened in the Army game. Along the wise. ones would still get a kick out of Notre with Paul Revere's ride, George \Vashington's dirty Dame if she lost ten games a. year for ten years work with the hatchet, and Ted Roosevelt's straight. Don't worry about cigar-store alumni; hobby-horsing at San Juan Hill, it's a part of they might get their heads mixed up with a bill­history. · ! ~;1 ~ iard ball some day; then they would begin to think. 
ALL PHONES; MONROE 113 6 
Marshall 
Chicago's Football Flotist 
Engin~ering 
Corporation
Gould Flow-er Shop 
1313 West Randolph Street 
Ott the Wholes ale Market 
FoundatioD.s 
CHICAGO 
3 5 South· Dearborn Street 
CHICAGO, ILL. 
A. W. Marshall, P~es. Eugene Schobinger, Sec. 
Edward W_. Gould, '23 Robert D. Stephan, '27 

. ; 
LUXU-RIOUS REFINEMENTS Between Chicago, Springfield, St. Louis Three All-Steel Trains Daily ST. LOUIS SPECIAL-Leaves Chicago and coaches. Makes connection at St. Louis with all St. Louis daily, 9:00A.M. All-steel coaches, fre~ fast trains to the Southwest. reclining chair cars, diners, parlor cars. DIAMOND SPECIAL _ Leaves Chicago DAYLIGHT SPECIAL-Fast 6!;2 hour train, 11:55 P. M. and St. Louis 11:57 P. M. daily. leaves Chicago 11:45 A. M. and St~ Louis 12:15 Carries latest type all-steel sleeping cars, Chi-P. M., daily. Observation and Drawing-Room cago to Springfield, Decatur and St. Louis. parlor cars, dining car, ladies' lounge and men's Salon buffet car with shower bath. Valet ser­club car, also free reclining chair cars a.nd . vice. Telephone service at terminals. For further inform~tion, meet me on the campus or address: F. H. SPINHARNEY, Traveling Passenger Agent, J. V. LANIGAN, Passenger Traffic Manager, 810 Grand Rapids Savings Bank Building, Illinois Central System, Grand Rapids, Michigan. Chicago, Illinois. Illinois Central THE ROAIL> OF TRAVEL LUXUR.Y  

THE 

vANDERBILT HOTEL 
NEW YORK 
Thirty-fourth Street East at Park Avenue 

TARIFF 
A DMIRABLY situated on the Crest of Murray Hill. It is convenient ;L\.. to the business, shopping and theatre centers and to the Pennsyl­vania and New York Central Railway terminals.-B. & 0. Motor Coaches 
Its clientele is made up of intelligent travellers from all parts of the One finds in the dining-rooms excellent service and a per­Every bedroom is an outside room and each one has 
its own private bath. · 
.Siugle room with batb, $4.5 0 per day aud up. Double roo-m witb bath, $8.00 per day and up. 
\VfALTON H. MARSHALL, 
Manager.' 
_.,., ---·­
' 

FOUNDATIONS, BRIDGES, PIERS, BREAKWATERS, LIGHTHOUSES, 
TUNNELS, PNEUMATIC AND -SUB-MARINE WORK CHICAGO NEW YORK MILWAUKEE PHILADELPHIA ALBANY BUFFALO CLEVELAND SAULT STE MARIE 

Second down. And barely a yard to a touch­. down. ((Hold that line," yell ten thousand voices-and one of the thrills of a lifetime is on. Football and business have much in common. In both you must be on your toes-in both you must rrhold that line." As a team is drilled, studied and drilled some more, so we here in the Hardy organization seek to improv~ our teamwork. And we get much inspiration for our work from watching Rockne's warriors each year. ·The Hardy organization specializes in Direct-Mail Printing. We offer a complete service-from the idea to the postoffice. All work produced in our own plant-one of the best equipped and finest to be found in the middle west. L. P. HARDY COMPANY Printers and Lithographers-Direct-Advertising Service .... SOUTH BEND .... INDIANA  

The New Morrison, when ")..... com.pleted, will be the world's · largest and tallest hotel -46 

MAIN LOBBY 
stories high, with 3,400 rooms. 

MORRISON HOTEL 
Chicago's New 
MORRISON HOTEL 
Madison and Clark Streets 
1t;:,.4s~,;::rr-

Tallest Hotel in the·World-46 Stories High 
"The easiest hotel to reach in all Chicago!" That is a comment we often hear, . not only from guests at the Morrison, but also from members of fraternities and lodges attending receptions at banquets here. · 
Chicago's Most Central Hotel . The Terrace Garden, Cameo Room and Boston
At this location the subleases pay all the ground rent, and the saving is Oyster House passed on to the guests, so that rooms The fame of this historic location is are rented here at little more than half largely due to the individual charac­the figure they 'Yould cost in any other ter of the Boston Oyster House, a 
leading hotel·in the city. Chicago landmark for over half a cent­ury. The Terrace Garden, also, has
1944 Outside Rooms 

won national celebrity with its de­Each with Bath, $2.50 Up licious menus, vivacious dance music, 
Every room is outside, with private bath, circulating ice-water, bed-head reading lamp and Servidor. Every floor has its own housekeeper, and all guests have garage privileges. 

and brilliant entertainments. The Cameo Room, seating 2,000, offers ideal conditions for fraternity meet­ings and conventions. 
Write or Wire for Reservations 


OFFICIAL. FOOTBALL REVIEW-19 2 8 
John Chevigny's Master Tackle 
By JOHN \Yf. KEYS 

Once in a great while a football star flashes forth with a dazz­ling play that lingers in the memory, like a pleasing melody, long after all else is forgotten. 
There is a young man in the game at Soldier Field this after­noon who made that kind of play one blizzardy November after­noon last year dowri at South Bend. He is John Chevigny, the lithe half-back of the Scrappy Irish of Notre Dame, and he made it in that bitter 7-to-7 tic the Irish fought with the Ghastly Gophers of Minnesota. · 
The play was a tackle, a startling, breath-taking, superhuman tackle that stopped the crashing Gophers three y;.trds from the goal and undoubtedly saved Notre Dame from a. defeat, in view of a touchdown that came later. Big Jim Braden, all-American full-back for Yale in 1919, saw it and said it was one of the greatest plays, if not the greatest tackle, he ever saw. And Jim saw a lot of them. 
::· :z. ::· 

It came in the last quarter. The Irish were leading, 7 to 0. The ramming Joesting, Nydahl and Almquist had battered the Irish backward until, on fourth down, they were three yards from their own goal and it seemed as though nothing would stop 
a. tying touchdown. It was one of those trying moments that arise in the best of football families. · · 
The fighting ones had their spikes on their own goal line and for once it looked as if they were licked. Rockne barked some orders. Out on the field raced three or four blue-clad slender Irish. One was Chevigny, going in as full-back. 
The players crouched. The ball was snapped. It. shot to Nydahl and around his own right end he tore. Six steps for a touchdown. -His path was cleared. There was nobody to stop him ... nobody·... and then around the end of .the tangled mass of players there shot a blurry blue streak, a. flashing sky-rocket sort of thing that traveled like a hurled battering ram parallel with the ground and maybe a foot or two above it. 
·It was the outstretched, diving body of John· Chevigny. It struck the bounding Nyda~l squarely at the knees 'and he went down precisely at _the spot where he was hit, on the five-yard line. It was Notre Dame's ball.
John Chcvigny 

Good Coffee tastes good any time--but it's particularly e:r{joyable after the Football Game. It is then that Kasper's Sip of Gold Blend hits the spot. rryou'll 'e1tjoy its delicious flavor." /. Sold by Good Grocers Everywhere 3 53 E. Illinois St. 316 W. 6th St. Chicago, III. A. J.'KAS~ER COMPANY· Kansas City, Mo.  

O'Shea Knitting Mills 
Makers of Athletic Knitted \Vear for every· sport. ·Durable, quality par ex­cellence. That's why the Fighting 

· Irish use them. 
-::­

D. C. ·o'SHEA, Presideut 
\V. C. KING, Secretary 
J. B. O'SHEA, Vice-Presideut 
-::­
i411...;24 N. Sacramento Ave:, Telephone, Albany 5011 CHICAGO 



WHAT CHEER! 
/or Mother Father Sweetheart ·Classmate 
The handiest, happiest gift ever devised 
$2.so-$5.oo 
Denominations 
Be Unique,_ Different, Original In Your .Gifts 
BUY CHEER BOOKS 
AT 
DELUXE 
()OLDEN STATE:.. 
LIMITED· 
to California 
Through N_atu.re's Art. ~allery· 
the Arizona-Southern California desert -where every landscape .is ·a mass of color, every winter hotel a PC?Wer of greenery in a frame of purple mountains, and every ranch, like a Remington canvas, a romantic picture of the old­time West. 
Only main line Chicago to{Tucson, Chandler, Phoenix; Indio and Palm Springs., Quickest by many ho·urs. 
Direct low altitude way to California. Only 63 hours Chicago-Los Angeles. Shortest and quickest to El Paso and San Diego. 
Route of otner fine fast trains, includ­ing the popular Apache. 

ROCK ISLAND 
THE ROAD OF UNUSUAL SERVICE 
FOT datailtd infOTmation, mail this couPon 
633 Rock Island Vacation Travel Service Bureau 723 La Salle Street Station, Chicago, Ill. Pleasesend meliteraturedescriptiveof Arizona and California and full ·information regardingschedules and service via Colden State Route. 
Name.___----________________________________._. 
Address·----~--------------------------------.--· 

; .. 
KingKnute 
(Continued from page 83) 
events that would lead the football world to shower with adulation the greatest combination that it had ever seen in action. Zooming along the skyline like the nervy riders of the Russian Cossacks, Stuhledreher, Crowley, Miller and Lay­den, with the help of the adamant· Seven Mules, buried ten opponents under a shell-fire of touch­downs. Army, Northwestern, \Visconsin, Car­negie Tech and Nebraska, all fell before the merci­less fire of Rockne's sharpshooters. 
In 1925, Notre Dame lost two games and tied a third while it was winning seven. In 1926, only Carnegie Tech defeated the Irish, while Minnesota, Northwestern and the Army were being trodden· underfoot. A year ago Army defeated Notre Dame and Minnesota tied the Irish in that great battle on Cartier Field, one of the greatest the venerable field has ever witnessed. .1\.nd 1928? \Veil, no one knows just what the result will be, but everyone expects the miraculous, which is al­ways the case with Notre Dame teams. 

I I 
I 
! 
Ask Any Football Coach 
By GRANTLAND RICE 
\X'hen Roscoe Magee hit the trail into college There wasn't a coach who would give him a look, For he was the type whose collection of knowledge You'd think must emerge from a tome or a book; His brow was too high-so they cursed at their 
luck \X'hile looking for roughnecks who knew how to buck. 

Now Magee didn't weigh quite a hundred and fifty, But he was a dynamo under full steam; He was not only fast, he was wiry and shifty, And more than a wonder at driving a team; And then when the coach saw his work on the lot He offered three cheers till his tonsils· grew hot. 
The motal is-as they cry unto heaven For two-hundred-pounders to answer their search, A fast, heady quarter to drive an eleven Means more than a tackle as big as a church; You can always find use in the thick of the strain For a bundle of nerves that is hooked to a brain. 


l .' 

Fro111. a Friend 
Co111.plilllents of John J. Casey 

Compliments of 
Charles A. Paquette 

See the . whole Pacific Coast 
Apache Trail of Arizona 
This region of antiquity with Its mysteries of chromatic charm, is truly the one place where nature and man formed ':1 composite panorama, super­Imposing huge rugged mountains,deep canyons,arid desert, and reservoir, prehis­·~oric and modern architecture, .111 for your benefit. See it this year on your way west. Ask for Apache Trail booklet. 

O
N your next trip West, enjoythe varied attrac­tions along Southern Pacific lines and see the colorful Pacific Coast country at its best! Rolling mesas-vivid, silent deserts-stupendous cliffs and cataracts-a succession of gala hotels­memorablegolfcourses-inspiringnationa!parks. 
Southern Pacific is the only railroad·system to offer you a 
Choice of Four Main Routes in addition to a network of scenic lines on the Pacific Coast. These four main routes are: Sunset Route: From New Orleans to San Fran­cisco, via Houston, Galveston, San Antonio, El Paso, Tucson, Phoenix, Los Angeles. GoldenState Route: Shortest Chicago to San Diego---63 hours Chicago to Los Angeles via Kansas City. . . Overland Route: Chicago to San Francisco via Ogden, across Great Salt Lake and along the American River Canyon. Shasta Route: Pacific Northwest to San Fran­. cisco via Portland and Klamath over the new Cascade Line. Go one way-return another. See the whole Pacific Coast via Southern Pacific! · · 
For complete information, write yourlocalagentor 
E. W. Clapp, Traffic Manager, Southern Pacific, Straus Bldg., Chicago, Ill. 
plus 
NEW ORLEANS French as France 
THE GREAT SOUTHWEST Cradle of American History 
OLD MEXICO Of Spanish Heritage 
APACHE TRAIL Land ofAntiquity 
CARRISO GORGE An Abyss Colossal 
HOLLYWOOD Movieland 
MONTEREY PENINSULA Playground ofAmerica 
YOSEMITE VALLEY Tourist's Paradise-
BIG TREES California's Giant Redwoods 
SAN FRANCISCO Gateway to the Orient 
GREAT SALT LAKE Where you"Go to SeabyRail" 
AMERICAN RIVER CANYON A Camera Shot of 2,000 Feet 
and many other famous attrac· tions reached by the "Road or a Thousand Wonders" 

Southern Pacilie
. ' .. 
L. P, HARDY CO., SOUTH BEND, IND. 








CChePALM E R 
H·o USE 

DOWNTOWN CHICAGO 
V
ISITORS to Chicago, even 
with limited time at their disposal for sight-seeing and shopping, will find in the central location of the Palmer House a real convenience. 
Besides being in the center of all downtown attractions and within easy walking distance ofmany points ofinterest, you are right on the main transpor­tation routes to outlying poims. Excellent garage service if you arrive in your own car. 
Convenience is combined with comforts, services and refined measurably to the enjoyment of your visit-and often tempt you to prolong your stay. 
Spacious, quiet rooms insure a restful night's sleep .. Excel­lent cuisine-five popular res­taurants. Orchestras. Library~ Complete hospital staff. Chil­dren's playroom. One entire floor reserved exclusively for women guests and fitted ex­actly t~ their.needs.· Reception room and clerk's office on every floor. And .with all-tradition­al Pal~er House hospitality. 
Rooms for one, $4 and up 


...;Jrfa11ager 
STATE STREET, MONROE STREET AND WABASH AVENUE 
··~ 



in the hear/ o[ 

DOWNTOWN CHICAGO 

V
ISITORS to Chicago, even 
with limited time at· their . disposal for sight-seeing· 'and shopping, will find in the central location of the Palmer House a real convenience. 
Besides being in the center of all downtown attractions and within easy walking distance ofmany points ofinterest, you are right on the main transpor­tation routes to outlying points. Excellent garage service if you arrive in your own car. 
Convenience is combined with comforts, services and refined measurably to the enjoyment of your visit-and often tempt you to prolong your stay. 
Spacious,. quiet rooms insure a restful night's sleep. Excel-· lent cuisine-five popular res­taurants._ Orchestras. Library. Complete hospital staff. Chil­dren's playroom. One entire floor reserved exclusively for women guests and fitted ex­actly t<? their needs. Reception room and clerk's office on every floor. And with all-tradition­al Palmer House hospitality. 
Room·s for one, $4 and up 


.Jrfa11ager 
STATE STREET, MONROE STREET AND WABASH AVENUE 
.,--­

2. OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1929 
· ·of




JUGGLER 
Notre Dame 

Exponent· of True Campus Life 
1-' 


Are You Blue? ~9 

Just Fill in the Blank Below 
IF SO; JOIN THE 


and Your Dark Days are Joke-of-the-Month 
GONE FOREVER Club 
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, 
-. 
-

:-TI-IE FUNNY FELLOW 
-
-
-
-

: Please enter my name for a year :-·membership in the JU.GGLER­: Joke-of-the-Month Club. 
-
-
-

-Name------------~------------------------------­-
-

-Street---------------------------~---------------·
: 
-
-

~ : CitY--------------------------------------------­
I 
I 
I 
-~ 
_J 

.../ 



To The Metnory of Rupart Mills . '15 
Rupe, who was · a four spo~ts letterman at Notre Dame, went to his death July 21, 1929, in·a vain attempt to save a friend from drowning. 
That he was a true son of Our Lady was shown not only in his heroic death, but in every act of his campus and later life. 
May the memory of Rupe Mills be a vivid example for Notre Dame men ·of the future to follow. 



.Ralph Sollitt & Sons 

General·­Contractors 

1930 ·SERIES NEW MODEL SOUTH BEND LATHES 
South Bend, Chicago, Ind. Ill. 
. 
South Bend Lathe Works 

425 East Madison St., South Bend, Ind. 



Official 
1929 FOOTBALLREVIEW 
University of Notre Darr),e 


STAFF Joseph S. Petritz--------~-----------------:_----------Editor-iu-Cbief Richard L. Donoghue------:--------------------------Assistaut ·Edifor 
August L. Bondi....:______..:. ____________________________Assistaut Editor Harley L. McDevitt______________________________Graduate Manager John J. Cannon____________________ · _____________Circulatiou Ma11ager Lawrence Mullins __________________________ Ass't. Circulation Manager 
CONTRIBUTORS 
K. K. Rockne John Bergan John B. La.w . Robert E. Gorman Paul G. Sullivan Robert C. Balfe Harry_ A. Sylvester, Jr. Feg Murray 
The staff wishes to express its appreciation of the assistance of lVIr. George Maypole, Miss Ruth Faulkner,_ Mr. J. Arthur Haley, Miss Marie \Villi_ams, Mr. James Armstrong, Mr. Harry Elmore, Mr. Herb Jones, Mr. Arthur \Vest, and Mr. ·Archer Hurley, in the compilation of this Review. 
Cover design by Art Kane. 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1929 


'Dedication 

HOf!SANDS of persons have co1nkined th~ir efl~rts through tl:e years to 1nake 
1-­
posszble the new Notre Dmne stadnt1n whrch wzll be opened tn ·1930. Every 
1nan who ever wore the Blue and Gold ·of Notre Da11ze, every 1ne11zber of the faculty, every 1ne11zber of the coaching staff, every loyal Notre Da11ze student, every faithful Notre Da11ze follower has done his share since the fo1tnding of the school to 1nake this dreauz of Coac/1 Rockne's a 1'ealit)'· To the known and unknown heroes ·who have contributed their bit in bringing about this new honte for the wan·iors of Our Lady we offer ou1· heartfelt thanks, and to these do we dedicate this acco1int of the 1~ 29 teauz., worthy successors to Notre Daute tea1ns of the past.· · ' . 


OFFICIAL FO.O T BALL REVIEW-1929 

REVEREND CHARLES L. O'DONNELL, C.S.C., Ph.D. 
PRESIDENT oF THE UNIVERSITY OF NoTRE DAME 

OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1929 


-By CourltSy of The Alumnus. 


VY congratulations to one of the finest 
c.JCJb Notre Da11ze tea11zs of all ti11te and to the splendid coaching staff headed by To11z Lieb, that carried on so -u;ell and effectively in 1ny absence. In fact, I believe that Lieb, Chev.igny and Voedisch did the co{lching while I just helped .a little._ 
· Every 11te11tber of the tea11z lived up to the finest traditions ofour great school and .. I have every reason to feel proud ·of their sea-son's 1vork. · · · 
The student 1nanagers, the band; the so­called Scrub~ and Fresh.inen also did yoe11tan service and 1vere a vital part in the suc~e~s­ful season. · 
KNUTE K. RocKNE 

i I i 
i !li il! 
';ll
{:r
·l! 
'Ij: H) 
111 
i! 
ll 
·: ii / 
·'i 
I ! i :! I 
j 

CAPT. JOHN B. LAW, NOTRE DAME, 1929 
. LfS.captain of the Notre Da.~ne footballU ~ tea1n of 1929, 17'!ay I say _that I have . . never played against 1nore. capable and 1nore sports1nanlike tea1ns than have been 1ny pleasure to compete with this year. 
In spite of the rather obvious disadvant­ages to be sur1nounted this y~ar, I feel th.at I have, in 1ny o~v1z s1nall way justified the position given 1ne, made possible, however, only by the 1ne11~bers of the tea11~ ~vhose loyalty and dauntless fighting spirit never once slac!?..ened. 
To the faculty and studf!nt body I can only say that it 1'vas their spiritual-support and splendid co-:operation that 1nade this seaio1~'s clean slate possible. 
JOHN BRENDEN LAw 
Patrons 
Ben Bloom New York City 
T. J. Curtin 
Chicago, Ill. 
J. T. HarriganNew York City 
Dr..Paul Dineen New York City 
J. B. Lamb 
New York City 
J. M. Studebaker, Jr. 'South Bend, Ind. 
Francis V. Pisula Latrobe, Pa. 
Frank E. HeringSouth Bend, Ind. 
Chas. J, RaleighNew York City 
John J. Poulton 
Chicago, Ill. Dr. Crow C. CoadyDubuque, la. Thos. J. Cronin 
Binghamton, N. Y. Thos. L. Grace 
Brooklyn, N. Y. John A. Byrnes
New York City Cornelius A. Breen Hackensack, N. J. Geo. Larkin 
Chicago, Ill. 
Majorie Ann Mendelson Detroit, Mich. 
Doris Marie Mendelson Detroit, Mich. 
H. A. Mendelson Detroit, Mich. 
Commissioner CurryNew York City 
Otto Brunenmeister 
New York City James H. Chapin
Far Rockaway, N. Y. Joseph V. Gallagher
Manhasset, L. I., N. Y. 
M. A. FanningChicago, Ill. 
William F. HughesCaldwell, N. J, 
Wm. L. CrilleyNew York City 
Harry R. Abbott 
· New Jersey 
E. B. DuniganOak Park, Ill. 
William J. Reidy
Chicago, Ill. 
Francis P. Kenny
New York C1ty 
Paul E. Moore New Brunswick, N. J. 
James W. Sanderson· New York City 
Mrs. K. Zabriskie Jersey City, N. J. 
J. J. Laughlin
New York City 
Anthony J. Heinlein Brooklyn, N. Y. 
D. F. KellyChicago, Ill. 
James T. Se-xton New London, Ct. 
Wm. F. Leimer ·Orange, N. J, 
John C. Sullivan Passaic, N. J. 
John Carroll 
Calumet City, Ill. 
E. T. Christmas New York City 
Tyler Williams Chicago, .Ill. 
John B. Wheeler 
Chicago, Ill. 
D. A. Eister 
Hornell, N. · Y. 
Wm. C. Kinne· Hornell, N•. Y. 
Richard HaggertyChicago, Ill. 
Bernard J. Fallon Chicago, Ill. 
M. E. Stetz 
Haverstraw, N. Y. Andrew J. Haire 
New York City Walter J. Williams 
New York City Louis A. Wildman 
New York City Benil!_min Margolis
New Rochelle, N. Y. 
W. L. Conwell 
New York City 
E. J. Mahoney
New York City 
J. Walter Hannon 
Indianapolis, Ind. Reginald J. Hunt 
New York City 
Floyd R. Murray­Hammond, Ind. 
R. J. Kasper
Chicago, Ill. John W. O'Donnell New York City James P. Egan
New York City Geo. N. McDonald 
Waterbury Conn. John A. Hanley 
· Jersey City, N. J. 
Edw. McDonoughBronx, New York 
William CrilleyNew York City 
J. M. O'DayNew York City 
Richard Anderson Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Andrew Rudner Coaldale, Pa. 
p, J. KeoughLake Bluff, Ill. 
August Klein New York City 

R. J. O'Donn"ll 
Chicago, Ill. 
Robt. P. Morrow Buffalo, N. Y. 
M. F. Devereux WC?odcliffe, N. J, 
Rev. Walter D. CaseyHartford, Conn. 
Barney U dol£ New York City 
Arthur G. Peacock New York City 
John P. Kalina 
Cleveland, Ohio 
John E. FitzgeraldHammond, Ind. 
Harry A. Scharf New York City 
Wm. J. Bellinger
Niagara Falls, N. Y. 
N. A. Scullen 
Cleveland, Ohio 
R. F. TierneyNew York City 
Edward KingNew York City 
Byron V. KanaleyChicago, Ill. 
Martin J. HealyNew York City 
Henry P. DowneyHammond, Ind. 
T. P. O'Donovan Chicago, Ill. 
Edw. F. Dunn Lake ·Geneva,·Wis. 
Louis J. Hackert . Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Gerald H. Hurst New York City 
James F. Connell 
W. New Brighton, N.Y. 
T. P. Brosnan New York City 
. 0. George CaseyBrooklyn, N. Y. 
P. S. Shinners 
Binghampton, · N. Y. 
John R. BarryNew York City 
C. J. Irwin Buffalo, N. Y. 
John P. Brice 
Chicago, Ill. 
Zolton Drosdick Hazelton, Pa. 
C. F. Feltham Chicago, Ill. 
Henry Kest New York City 
Mary M. DwyerChicago, Ill. 
G. J. GarveyChicago, Ill. 
John L. McinerneyChicago, Ill. 
Archie R. CampbellFlint, Mich. 
R. A. GallagherChicago, Ill. 
Walter J, Riley
E. Chicago, Ind. 
J. Kalman Reppa
E. Chicago, Ind. 
Jas. Newman 
Brooklyn, N. Y. 
D. R. KirbylJetroit, Mich. 
Thos. C. Casey
W. Orange, N. J, 
-W. J, Cassady
Norwood, Ohio 
Chas. W. Lynch . New York City 
P. C. Reilly
Indianapolis, Ind. 
Thos. S. Donlon Hudson Heights, N. J. 
D. P. O'Keefe Detroit, Mich. 
Francis A. B~lin New York City 
Louis R. Rochetto 
Chicago, · Ill. 
Dr• .las. E. McCambridgePoughkeepsie, N. Y. 
Harold J. Burke 
Chicago, Ill. 
A. Michellini New York 
Walter R. ShannyNew York City 
Mrs. Dorothy V. L. FlynnCroton on Hudson, N.Y. 
Joseph Hinchliffe Paterson; N. J, 
Edward J. O'Brien New York City 
R. C. StephensonSouth Bend, Ind. 
Frank Pavis New York City 
Dr. James Murphy Middletown, Conn. 
Francis X. Sullivan Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Margaret Merwin Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y. 
Dr. Josepli T. Mahoney
Chicago, Ill. · 
Geo. J, Schriener Hammond, Ind. 
Hugh MulliganChicago, Ill. 
Rev. Pat. Maloney, O.F.M. Chicago, Ill. 
A. P. Kane Bloomington, Ill. 
G. A. HanniganNew York City 
J. J. Heffernan New York City 
Bernard M. Noonan Morristown, N. J. 



The Traveling Squad 

1.929. Record  
Notre Dame  __________14; Indiana  ______________  0  
Notre Dame -----'------14; Navy --------------­Notre Dame ___________ 19; Wisconsin ___________  7 0  
Notre Dame  ___________  7;  Carnegie Tech  ________  0  
Notre Dame ------~---26; Georgia Tech :.._ ________ Notre Dame __________19; Drake ________: _______  6 7  

Notre Dame ·__________ 13; Southern California ____ 12 Notre Dame __________26; Northwestern __.:.. ______ 6 Notre Dame ----------7; Army ---------------0 
1929 Coaching Staff 
K. K. Rockne______________________Head Coach 

John Voedisch ------------------Assista11t Coach Thomas Lieb ~------------------Assistaut Coach John Chevigny -----------------Assistant Coach Thomas E. Mills___~------------Assista11t Coach \Villiam Jones ------------------Freshmait Coacb 
Varsity Personnel 
John B. Law, Captain Tim Moynihan August Bondi ·Albert Gebert Lawrence Mullins Martin Brill Norman Herwit Thomas :Murphy John Cannon N ordoff Hoffman Joseph Nash · Frank Carideo AI Howard John O'Brien \Villiam Cassidy Cla.rence Kaplan Paul O'Connor \Villiam Christman Thomas Kassis . . Fred Reiman Edmo~d Collins Thomas Kenneally Joseph Savoldi John Col rick Bernard Leahy Marchmont Schwartz Thomas Conley Frank Leahy George Shay Carl Cronin Joseph Locke Ted Twomey AI Culver Arthus McManmon H. Manfred Vezie Richard Do~oghue Regis MeNamara George Vlk John Elder Bertram Metzger Thomas Yarr 
16 OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1929 I' 

KNUTE K. ROCKNE 
Head Coach 

Courage and thoroughness evident in his every action are the two qualities that have gone to make Knute Rockne the peerless ~ootball coach. 
The former trait was more conspicuous this year, perhaps, than ever before. After l~sing four games in 1928, Coach Rockne came back and risked his very reputation on the hardest schedule ever lined up for a modern day fo<?tball eleven. The way in which he stuck by his team while in excrutiating pain this Fall, and the respect the players themselves have for him, also point to this quality in Coach Rockne. ·He pleaded with his physicians to let him go to the six games he missed during his illness and it was harder for him to stay at home than it would have been to go. Suffering torments that very few out­side of his direct associates appreciated, he attended practices in his car to lead his men on, to be a fitting example for them. 
The way the 1929 team conducted itself in the Navy, Georgia Tech, \Vis­consin, Drake, Northwestern and Army games speaks louder than mere words of the thoroughness of Rockne's teaching methods. He told them what to do in every situation, and they won with the power that comes from knowledge.
0 

His record of success speaks for itself. His men fight for him because they know that he is battling for them; they battle successfully because he has taught them how to fight scientifically. 
THOMASLIEB 
Ass't. Coach 

ccA man can afford· to be sick with a helper like Tom Lieb around." 
And never did Coach-Rockne speak a truer word. To~ ret~rned to his· alma mater just at the right time and the fruits of his work were evident in every game that Notre Dame played during the past season. 
He had .been at· Wisconsin when a powerful Crimson line forced the ·breaks that beat Notre Dame in 1928; this year it was his line that beat Wisconsin. He took charge of the team in six of its nine games, and six times he brought his men home victorious. At practice he was all over the field at once, now with the line, now with the backs, now at a scrimmage, always complete master of the situation. 
His dressing room . talks were almost on a level with those of Rockne .him­self. Inspiring talks they were, that made the players go out to the :fight ready to do or die for Our Lady and for their disabled Rockne. 
It was a lucky day for Notre Dame when Tom Lieb decided to come back into the fold. 




THOMAS A. MILLS 
Ass't. Coach 

A man of many parts is Tommy Mills. His comprehensive knowledge of football and his keen eye make him one of the best scouts in the game, and the information he brought. home from his expeditions was directly responsible for a large share of Notre Dame's great 1929 defense. · 
His ability t.o teach intrica.te plays to reserves and Freshman teams stamps him as a great instructor of the sport. His understanding of the Rockne system, his love of boys, and his genial make-up make him the ideal coach. The players respect his word and at the same time. take him on as a real pal. 
Notre Dame and ~ockne never had a better friend and helper than Tommy.. 
JOHN CHEVIGNY 
Ass'!. Coach 
When the entire 1928 backfield of Brady, Niemiec, Collins, and Chevigny finished play­ing for Notre Dame last year~ Jack Chevigny decided that it·was up to him to do something about the situation. 
So he stayed around this Fall and whipped into shape one of the greatest backfield com­binations Notre Dame has ever had. Frank Carideo, Jack Elder, Larry Mullins, and Marty Brill will all tell you how much of their success they owe to the t~aching of this 1928 s~ar. 
During Coach Rockne's illness, uchev" was indispensable. He drilled the backs just as Rockne would have drilled them, and he co-operated with Tom Lieb at games as none . other could. Playe.rs who' saw him wear himself to the point of exhaustion time and a.gain during the 1928 season respected his wishes and gave him discipline and attention that was remarkable for one who was one of them a .few months previous. 
JOHN CCIKE" VOEDISCH 
Ass'!. Coach 

Avery, very quiet, but very, very efficient young man is John ulke'·' Voedisch, who does most of his work with the ends on the s.quad. 
One of the b~st ends ever to play at Notre Dame, ulke" knows enough of the finesse of the flankman's job to develop a really outstanding set of ends this year. He was quick to master the new shift that Rockne gave to the wingmen this year and the exact manner in which he taught it to his pupils aided very materially in the deceptiveness ·of the 1929 team's attack. · · 
He always had six or eight men ready to step into any game at any time and hold their own against the most powerful open running attacks of Notre Dame's nine powerful opponents. · Not only this, but he had men who could go in and catch passes when they were needed. 
E~ds ha.vc· aiways "been vital factors of Notre Dame teams and under Voedisch they have gained rather than lost in importance. 



OFFICIA.L FOOTBALL REVlEW-1.929 
The Varsity Roster 
Years on Name Position ·Prep School Age Wt. Ht. Squad 
Bailie, Roy~--------R·. End______ Hollywood High____________ 20 163 5 ft. 11 in. 1 
Bloemer, Bernard ___ R. Gu~rd ____ St. Xavier, Louisville________ 19 162 5 ft. 9 in. 1 Bondi, Gus ________R. Guard____ Dixon, Ill., High____________ 21 175 5 ft. 9 in. 3 B-rannon, Bob ______L. Half______ Denison, Iowa______________ 20 15 5 
5 ft. 9 in. 1 Brill, Martin _______ R. Half______Pennsylvania Charter________ 21 181 5 ft. 11 in. 1 Cannon, Dan ------;-R. Half______Aquinas, Columbus, Ohio ____ 21 163 5 ft. 7Yz in. 1 Cannon, Jack ______L. Guard_____Aquinas, Columbus, Ohio ____ 20 193 5 ft. 11 in. 3 Carberry, Jack _____ R. End______Ames, Iowa, High__________ 22 175 6ft. 2 
Carideo, Frank _____Quarter_____ Dean Academy------~------20 172 5 ft. 7 in. 2 Carmody, James. ____ Tackle_______St. Phillips, Chicago_________ 20 190 6ft. 1 Cassidy, Wm. ______ L. Guard____ St. Stanislaus_______________ 22 
172 5 ft. 9 in. 1 Cavanaugh, Vincent_ Center ______ St. Rita, Chicago ___________ 19 181 5 ft. 11 in. 1 Christman, Bill _____ Quarter_____ Green Bay, Wis. ____________ 19 
152 5 ft. 7 in. 1 Collins, Ed. ________ L. End______ St. Ignatius, Chicago________ 22 
169 6ft. ' 1 Colrick, John ______L. End_-:----St. Benedict, N. J.___________ 21 
175 '6ft. 3 
\ 

Conley, Thomas ____R. End______Roman c;:atholic, Philadelphia_ 20 170 5 ft. 11 in. 1 Conway, Pat ______Full_________ Warren, Ohio, High_________ 21 
162 5 ft. 1 0 in. 1 Cronin, Carl ------~R. Half______St. Rita, Chicago___________ 20 155 5 ft. 7 in. 1 Culver, Al ________ R. Tackle ____St. Th<?mas, St. PauL________ 22 
212 6ft. 2Yz in. 1 Donoghue, Richard _L. Tackle ____Auburn, N. Y., High _________ 20 220 6ft. 2 in. 
2 Donoghue, Bernard _L. Half______Auburn, N. Y., High ________ 18 
161 5 ft. 10Yz in. 1 Elder, John ________ L. Half______ Lebanon, Ky., High _________ 21 
165 5 ft. 8 in. 3 Gerbert, Al. _______ Quarter_____ Jacksonville, Ill. ____________ 21 
160 5 ft. 8 in. 2 Griffin, Jim ________L. End______ St. Ignatius, Chicago ______ ..:, __ 21 
178 6 ft. 1 in. 1 Grisanti, Al. _______R. End ______Catholic Latin, Cleveland ____ 19 
15 5 5 ft~ 9 in.· 1 Herwit, Norm _____ L. Guard____ Senn High, Chicago _________ 19 
185 5 ft. 9 in. 2 Host, Paul ________L. End _______LaCrosse, Wis. --------~----19 
165 5 ft. 11 in. 1 Howard, AI. _______ Full________ Alhambra, High, Calif. ------19 
160 5ft.10in. 1 Izoe, George-_______ Tackle:______ Barberton, Ohio ____________ 19 
1·85 6ft. 1 Kaplan·, Clarence ___R. Half______Owatomma, Minn.__________ 21 
158 · 5 ft. 10 in. 1 Kassis, Tom L. __:_ ___ Guard_______ Casper, Wyo., High ________--20 
18 5 5 ft. 11 in. 2 Keeney, B-ernard. ____Quarter_____ Akron, Ohio, Central _______ 19 
141 5 ft. 8 in. 1 Kenneally, Tom ____Quarter_____ Crosby High, Wat., Conn._:-_20 
145 5 ft. 7 in.· 2 Kersjes, Frank ______ L. End______ Central High, Kalamazoo ____ 21 
18 0 5 ft. 11 in. 1 Koken, Michael ____L. Half______ South High, Youngstown, 0.__ 20 . 
165 5 ft. 10 in. 1 Kosky, Frank ______R. End______Yonkers Prep, N. Y._____-: ___ 18 
174 6ft. 1 Kremer, Theodore __ FulL.:________ Woodsfield, Ohio _____:.._ _____ 20 
177 5 ft. 10 in. 1 Law, Joh~ _________R. Guard _____Yonkers High, N. Y.,_______ 22 
163 5ft.9in. 3 


The Varsity Roster 
Years on Name Position Prep School Age Wt. Ht. Squad 
Leahy, Bernard _____ L. Half______ St. Mel, Chicago__________;_ __ 20 178 5ft.11in. 2 Leahy, Frank ______L. Tackle ____ Winer High, S.D. --------:__ 20 183 5 ft. 11 in. 2 Listzwan, Tom _____ Full_________Procter, Vermont, High ___:.__21 15 8 5 ft. 8 in. 1 Locke, Joseph ______L. Guard_-:-~--St. Rita, Chicago___________ 22 165 5 ft. 10 in. 2 Lyons, Jim ________R. Guard____ Holyoke, High _____________ 21 170 5 ft. 11 in. 1 Mahoney, Henry ___End_________ Cathedral Latin, Cleveland ___ 19 165 5 ft. 10 in. 1 Manley, John ______Tackle ______ .Dyersville, Iowa ____________ 20 180 5 ft. 11 in. 1 Massey, Robert _____L. Guard_____Bloomfield High, N. J----~---20 165 5 ft. 1 o:in. 1 
I . 
McManmon, Art ___ R. Tackle ____Lowell High, Mass.__________ 20 201 6ft. 2 in. 1 McNamara, Regis __L. Tackle ____Binghampton, N. Y.________ 20 165 6ft. 1 Metzger, Bert -~~---R. Guard____ Loyola Prep., Chicago ________ 19 165 5 ft. 9 in. 1 Moynihan, Tim ____Center_______Rawlings, \Vyo., High_____ . __ 23 195 6ft. 1 in. 3 Mullins, Larry _____Full _________ S. Pasadena, Cal., High______ 20 175 6ft. 2 Murphy, Emmett___Quarter______Duluth, Minn., High________ 20 158 5 ft. 10 in. 1 Murphy, Tom _____R. End______Baptist High, Conn.________--20 185 6ft. 1 in. 2 Nash, Joe _________Center______ Mt. Carmel, ~hicago _________ 22 177 5 ft. 10 Yz in. 2 O'Brien, Ed _______L. Half______D.L.S., Chicago -~----------19 172 5 ft. 10 in. 1 O'Brien~ John ______L. End_______ Los Angeles, High___________ 21 180 6ft. 2 in. 2 O'Connor, Paul ____ Full_________N. Walpole, N.H., High_____ 20 · 175 5 ft. 9 in. 1 Provissero, P. ______L. Guard_____Paterson, N. J., I-iigh ____ -:-___ 21 194 5 ft. 8 in. 1 Reiman, Fred ______Center______ LaCrosse Central, Wis. ______ 21 1 8 6 6 ft. 2 in. 1 Rogers, John________Center_______Alexis, Il1._________________ 19 172 5 ft. 9 in. 1 Savoldi, Joseph _____Full_________Three Oaks High, Mich. _____ 20 19 2 5 ft. 11 in. 1 Schwartz, Charles __L. Tackle ____Naperville, Ill. _____________ 21 160 5 ft. 9 in. 2 Schwartz, M. -~----L. Half______Bay St. Louis, Miss.__________ 20 161 5 ft. 10 in. 1 
r . . 

Seymour, AI _______Guard______ ;Malone, N. Y--------~------21 174 5 ft., 10 in. 1 Shay, George ______Full _________ Hartford, Conn, High__.;_ ____ 21 160 5 ft. 9 in. 2 Thornton, Joe _____R. Tackle ____ St. James, Haveril1__________ 22 182 5 ft. 9 Yz in. 1 Twomey, Ted ______R. Tackle ____ Duluth, Catholic High_______ 22 195 6ft. 2 Vezie, H. M._______R. End______McDonald, Pa., High________ 22 175 6ft. 2 Vlk, George _______R. End_______ Holy N arne High, Cleveland __ 20 170 6ft. 2 Wharton, Terrance__ Tackle_~ ____Altoona, Pa., High__________ 21 187 6ft. 1 in. 1 Whelan, Vincent ___L. Guard_____Grantwood, N. Y., High_____ 20 165 6ft. 1 Williams, Aubrey ___Full_________ Central, Ft. Wayne__________ 19 181 6 ft. 1 in. 1 Yarr, Thomas ______ Center__,_ ____Chinacum Prep., \Vash. ______ 20 18 5 5 ft. 1 0 in. .1 Yelland, John ______Center_______West High, Minn.___; _____; __ 20 173 6ft. 1 
Zoss, Abe _________R. Guard____ South Bend High___________ 19 184 5 ft. 11 in. 





The Players 
CAPT. JOHN LAW 
Right Guard 

In John Brendan Law, the tradition of fast, scrappy, really great guards, the tradition of Anderson, and the two uClipper" Smiths found a noble perpetuation. Not as big as most guards, Law made up for his lack of size by his speed, his fight and his cleverness. There is no department of guard play in which the compact N cw Yorker is not a master. To his perfect physical co-ordination he added a degree of brain-power which even coaches do not look tor in their guards, much less the general public, with whom the idea of the udumb guard" still prevails. It is incn like Law, few as they are, who are slowly dispelling this notion that the guards are the dullest men on the team. It is not an ex;­aggeration to say that Johnny Law's mind is as keen and fine as that of any quarter-back in the country. 
As captain of one of the greatest of Notre Da~c's great teams, he served well as both a leader and an inspiration. The very sight of him outplaying men anywhere from 10 to 50 pounds heavier throughout the entire season was more than enough to inspire the men he led. 
\Vords cannot be .framed to describe him as a leader; his qualities of leader.., ship arc too obvious. H~ will go down in football history as one of Notre Dame's greatest captains. 
·' 

JOHN. CANNON. · All-American 
Left Guard 

Figuring prominently in every play, offensively and defensively, Jack was chosen unanimously for All~American honors by leading sports writers. Play­ing continuously without a headgear, he was an outstanding figure and a most important member of the forward wall. Cannon, Capt. Law, and Moynihan formed a. pivot trio in the line that was unsurpassed by any team in 'the country. 
On defense, Jack showed unusual.'ability to gauge plays and was continu­ally next to the opposing ball carrier on the bottom of the pile. There is hardly a game which can be called his best; he was steady and consistent throughout the entire season, his third on the varsity team. 
Jack Cannon's personality, courage and football ability will live long in the memories of Notre Dame football enthusiasts and followers. He will be re­membered in years to come as a sterling guard and one of the second Rockne edition of Seven Mules. · 
FRANK CARIDEO All-American 
Qziarter-Bacl?.. 

One hears of ideal quarter-backs, but rarely comes across one. Always there is something lacking, but in Frank Carideo the ideal is approached just about as closely as possible.· 
A quarter-back's job is to direct his team-to use his head; his next most im­portant work is to block. In these two departments of the game, Carideo knows no superior and few equals. But where most quarter-backs leave .off here, he just begins, for, besides his directing and blocking ability, this chunky lad has the faculty of punting, passing, running, and kicking extra points after touchdown along with the best in the country. 
Surely it is a long time since any field general has been able to do all of these things and do them well. Carideo's handling of punts is a thing to watch in wonder, and his clear, confident voice is an urge to victory-a call to battle. His cool calmness never deserts him and the driving lash of his voice is never ruffled. 
Little wonder it is, then, that he was the unanimous choice of the .A:ll-American pickers this fall, and the most talked-of football general m the country. He's a great man, this Frank Carideo of Notre Dame. 



TED TWOMEY ·· Left Tackle 

In every school and on every team there are men who are known as "tough" -not in the grosser sense of the word, but in connotation which we of Notre Dame have given to it, namely, that they have infinite coura-ge and can give plenty while taking as much. 
This is what we mean when we say that Ted Twomey is the toughest of the tough. For this giant, so genial off the playing field, is truly a figure to be feared when in action. Not at all flashy or sensational; spectators cannot un­derstand why it is that many who know call ~1im great. Nor can they under­stand why, along about the end of the first quarter, tl;te opposing team is not hammering very much at Ted's side of the line. 
Only those who have played against him or seen him perform at close range can appreciate his ability. His forearm ••shiver" is about as gentle as a caress with a steel beam, and the fierce smash of his tackle is like the charge of an enraged bull. 
\'V'hen tackles who have held a larger place in the public's eye have long been forgotten, Ted Twomey will still be remembered with awe and respect by those who know his real ability. He was prominent on the All-Ap1erican selections due to his consistent play this year. 
JOHN ELDER 
Left Half 

. \Vhen Jack Elder is a bit older, he will be able to look back upon his collegi­ate career as one of the greatest any undergraduate ever had. Reminiscing, he will see tha.t he was the co-holder· of two world records in track, one of the greatest sprinters of all time. 
But the greatest thing he will see, and will be able to call his own, is the fact that he made himself a football player by sheer hard work. Although endowed with worlds of speed, ..The Rabbit" was not a natural football player. He found difficulty in cutting in an open field, and could not block or pass. 
Jack worked at these things, however, and worked hard where another man might have given up and rested on his track laurels. The fruit of his labor was reaped this year when, unstopped by any of Notre Dame's nine powerful foes, he stamped himself as a real football player and one of the finest all-around backs of the season. 
He takes his place with the few great sprinters who rose above mediocrity when they donne,d cleats instead of spikes. 
LAWRENCE MULLINS 
Full-B~ck 

One of the greatest and most versatile a.thletes ever to attend Notre Dame, .. Moon" was·a vital member of the ..New Four Horsemen" backfield of Rockne's this fall. 
uRock" had needed a full-oack in the middle of the '28 season and he had turned to Larry, who was then pla.ying half-back. That this rangy, speedy Californian delivered as a plunger: is a fact known. to all gridiron followers. 
Time and again he knifed through opponents' lines for substantial gains, and, once past -the line of scrimmage, it was a marvel to see him revert to type and become a half-back again, dodging, twisting, side-stepping, and stiff-arming. He was undoubtedly the best blocking full-back on the squad, he was an out­standing pass receiver, and an unequalled defensive back. 
To his many physical qualifications he added as keen a mind and as fine a football intellect ·as ever graced the classic bodies of Notre Da.me's other "greatest of the great." 



MARTIN BRILL 
Right Half 

..Marty" is the type of back coaches dream of and pray for, but are lucky enough to get only about once in a generation-the type that is steady rather than brilliant, firm rather than flashy, the kind that does the work and lets the glory go to his rna tes. 
Despite his work-horse duties at right half, Brill's play was so flashy at times as to draw comment even from the uninitiate.-Big, strong, rugged, he made an ideal man for the Rockne system which calls for a right half that can block. 
Possibly lacking in the finesse of Chevigny and Herndon, he made up in sheer strength and determination what he was missing in the fine points of his position, and so took his place with these two Notre Dame immortals. 
His greatest stock in trade was, of course, his blocking, but his backing up of the line, his pass receiving, and his ball-carrying-especially against Navy­went to make him a great all-around back. He came here from Penn State because he ..wasn't getting a break there," and showed the world what he could do. 
Next ye-ar he'll show them some more. 

RICHARD DONOGHUE 
Right Tackle 

One of he flashiest Freshman players at Notre Dame in the days of Christy Flanagan, but handicapped by injuries last year, Dick came to the front this season and distinguished himself as. one of the most reliable men on the squad. 
He has the size, weight, coolness, good judgment, aggressiveness, and football sense that go to make the ideal tackle. ·He knows how to use his hands on de­fense and has the faculty of breaking through an opponent's line to smear the strongest power plays directed at him. 
Dick played in every game this fall and never made a wrong move at any stage of the season. In the thick of every battle, his ruggedness is shown by the fact that he went through the season uninjured by any of Notre Dame's nine powerful opponents. 




TIM MOYNIHAN 
Center 

\'\fe could formulate no greater tribute to the prowess of "Big Tim" than that made by \'\falter Eckersall, nationally known foot­ball authority, in the Chicago Tri~uue the day after the big center broke his ankle against Northwestern. Eckersall says: "It was a costly victory, however~ as Tim Moynihan, one of the best centers in the country, suffered a broken bone in his right ankle. This in­jury is bound to handicap the Rockne eleven for the struggle with Army in New York. 
"Moynihan's passes always were accurate. He was ever mindful to make sure of his passes before crashing through to take off . the secondary defense. He frequently was down the field under punts and was ·a good tackler. He knew when to play his position in the line and when to pull out to help break up forward passes." 
His reckless custom of starting behind his own line and hurd­ling over the scrimmage pile to· nab the ball-carrier for a loss is what cost Tim a chance to play in the Army game. It was on one of these air excursions that he snapped the bone in his right ankle and thus ended his Notre Dame career. 
In his three years with the varsity, Tim met some of the best centers in the country, but he bowed to none. ..Rock" will have to look a long time to find another like this scrapping Irishman from Chicago. 
JOHN COLRICK 
Left Eud 

John Colrick is not a new name in Notre Dame sport annals. Johnnie is · one of the ablest and most versatile athletes that ever represented the Irish. In 
addition to his football letters, he won three monograms in basketball and 
three in baseball, and served as captain of the diamond club last year. 
At the left wing of Coach Rockne's forward wall, Colrick was dependable at all times on defense and was one of the best pass receivers on the squad. His work during the past season was the equal of or better than his two preceding years at end. John gave good account of himself in every game, catching passes that brought the crowd to its feet, and stopping every play in his territory. 
While apparently easy-going and almost indifferent, he was in reality the hardest type of worker. He leaves behind him a most enviable record as a Notre Dame athlete. 



TOM CONLEY 
Right End 

In this quiet, reliable Philadelphian, the tradition of Boland, Maxwell, and McNally found another worthy wearer of the Blue and Gold. A player of un­questioned ability when he first came to Notre Dame, he did not rest on the laurels he had gathered in his sophomore year when he achieved that distinction, rare indeed among sophomores, of making his letter in football. R~ther he continued to work and study the position he played, until he now bids fair to · be one of the most finished ends in the country next year. 
As it was, his playing this year toward the close of the season stamped him as one of the best in the Middle \Vest. Tenacity~ courage, and persistence are but a few of his q~alities. Frustration or defeat serves rather to spur him on than discourage him, as was demonstrated in the Southern California game when a pass labeled ...touchdown'' slipped off his reaching fingers. But 'he came back to catch two even more difficult tosses, one of them resulting in Notre Dame's first score. 
Most ends are a bit one-sided inasmuch as they are specialists in some one· or 


two departments of end-play while their work in other departments is only mediocre. \Vith Conley, however, such is not the case; he is possibly the finest all-around end that the squad boasted this year. · 


MARCHMONT SCHWARTZ , Left Half 
It is seldom that a sophomore makes a letter in football at Notre Dame; it is even less often that he ranks :is one of the 'leading backs of the country. Such, however, is•the case with Marchmont Schwartz. 
His rise to prominence was rapid and justified. A good blocker, a good kicker, a most consistep.t runner, and one of the best passers in the country, it is not strange that he has risen to the heights in this, his first year of col­legiate· football. 
But if there is one thing that causes this earnest, hard-working boy from the South to stand out more than any other quality, it is his coolness under fire. No matter how trying the situation; Marchy Schwartz is always cool, calm, 
. calculating, never flt;ist~red, never hurried. It is not logical that a Southerner should be so, and really, he is not this way by temperament; rather it is his will that forces his body.to obey. 
· March is almost . a sure. bet to play w.ith the first eleven for the next two years when, according to the present outlook, Rockne should turn out a.t least 'two rp'ore championship. teams. 
·I 
I~ 
r 

OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1929 

JOSEPH SA VOLDI 
Full-Back 

After his great showing in the \Visconsin game, sports writers called Joe the "\Vandering Italian," and he certainly did an unusual amount of wander­ing toward. enemy goal lines during the course of the season. 
Joe really found himself this year. "He had seen some little action with the reserves during his Sophomore year, but was not espeCially promising. This season, however, found him a hard-hitting, plunging back who was continu­ally straining for extra inches when carrying the ball, and blocking well when his teamma~es were toting the oval. 
Defensively, too,. he showed remarkable ability and was one of the best known full-backs in the country. Against Indiana and Navy he got off to a good· start and he thrilled the packed stands of Soldiers' Field as he led the way to victory over \Visconsin. Injured at Georgia Tech, he was not in the line-up for the Drake game, but was his old self the rest of the season. His high dive over the line of scrimmage in the Carnegie Tech game scored the lone touchdown that won for Notre Dame and, incidentally, won for him the nick­name, "Jumping Joe," which seems likely to stick with him the rest of his life. 
THOMAS KASSIS 
Right Guard 

Never did a more willing worker or a scrappier player than Tom Kassis per­form for Notre Dame. After plugging along at center for two years with but fair success, he was made over into a guard this Fall and disting~ished himself in practically every game by his fiery play. 
As understudy to Jack Cannon he played all season with the shock troops and stood out always for his spectacular tackles behind the line of scrimmage and on punts. The offensive work of a guard is nevu as noticeable as his de­fensive pla.y, but anyone who knows the game and watched Tom this year will tell you that he was in there on every Notre Dame drive, leading the inter­ference on end runs, holding on passes, or charging on line bucks to open gap;. ing holes for the backs. · 
A sprained ankle in the Wisconsin game necessitated his removal from the field, but, although the injury seemed to get worse each week, Tom was always back in the lineup ready to fight to the end for his team, his school, and his coach. 


FRANK LEAHY 
Right Tackle 

The original tough luck boy of the Notre Dame squad, if there ever was one, is found in Frank Leahy, varsity tackle. · 
Although very light in weight-too light almost fo~ a tac_kle-Frank wanted to play and he showed enough stuff in spring practice to put him first among the candidates for his position. Even before the season had opened, though, he received a shoulder injury that was to hamper him all year. He had just re­covered somewhat from this·hurt and was going great in the Drake game when he twisted his ankle very painfully and had to take another forced vacation from active work. 
These setbacks would have discouraged most men, but not Frank. He always ~arne back for more and was in there at the end of the season fighting as hard as at the beginning, handicapped almost overwhelmingly, but battling his heaviest opponents to a standstill. 



MANFRED VEZIE 
Right End 

"Mannie" started the past se~son in top form against Indiana and Navy, but a week later in the \'\Tisconsin game he suffered a recurrence of an old knee injury that was so serious as to prevent his playing again until well along in· the schedule. 
His work in the Northwestern and Army games was up to his usual standard of steady, driving play, and he certainly had the sympathy of all his followers that his leg had to go bad on him while he was doing_such good work. 
He proved his ability in the -1928 season and everyone at Notre Dame knows that without this injury jinx he would ha.ve had a far better year than he did. His rather unstartling showing this year, however, will not detract in the least from Notre Dame's respect for him as one qf its greatest ends and a fine fellow. 
Next season will see "Veze" back at his old post where h.e will form the nucleus for another fighting Rockne line. 

.~ 

28 OFFICIAL FOOTBALL R E V I E. W-1 9 2 9 . 
BERTRAM METZGER 
Left Guard 

The "watch charm"· guard they call him, and like a diamond watch charm he is small and very valuable. A lot of high school coaches would consider Bert Metzger too small for their team, but, to the Great Coach, if a man has the stuff, nothing else matters. 
Bert Metzger's trail was not an easy one; he has been up against some of the best players in the country, ever since he has been out for football, but he 
· ·. carried on and finally gained recognition. To do so required his attaining well nigh perfection in his finesse, for in no other way can a small man hope to play gua.rd. But to his finesse he added a body small but hard, a mind sharp and keen, and courage, both mental and physical. 
As Captain Law's capable understudy he has gone f.ar this season, and it is not too much to expect him to gain national recognition next year. Already he is a part of the Notre Dame tradition of small, fast, smart, tough guards. The Smiths, Hunk Anderson, and the other great guards can look upon his work from the pinnacle to which we of Notre Dame ha.ve raised them and they can find that it is g~od that the tradition did not die with them. 
AL GEBERT 
Quarter-Bac/{ 

The story of Bud Gebert is as old as the Dome is old, the story of years on the reserve squad and the sternest competition. But these failed to break his spirit and he plugged along finally to come through. 
His rise was not phenomenal or rapid; ra.ther it was like the growth of a .great tree, slow, sure, and perfect. His sole asset when he started at Notre Dame was a keen football mind, a real quarter-back's mind that analyzed quickly and completely. He worked, though, until he had developed his blocking and speed to the point where "Rock" could not help but recognize it. 
As the leader .of the shock troops, Gebert distinguished himself and his team. In most of the games his entire team was used a.nd in all of them the backfield played. Their work under Gebert was so outstanding that it drew the recogni­tion of football followers all over the country; the shockers were seldom scored on and always made consistent drives agai~st Notre Dame's strongest opponents. 
The heady 'work of Bud Ge~ert is what sustained ~he second team attack until such time as the "New Four Horsemen" went into battle, and no one will ever know just how much he contributed to Notre Dame's success this Fall. 


PAUL O'CONNOR 
Right Half 

Handicapped throughout the season by a :variety of injuries, this sturdy, silent New Englander nevertheless carried on. One of the hardest ruiming and blo~king backs in the country, O'Connor's work was not flashy, although at times the steady flowing stream of his consistency was rippled with flashes of . greatness, as at the Northwestern game, when his slashing run of 40 yards paved the way to Notre Dame's first touchdown. 
His self-sacrificing attitude was demonstrated perfectly in this run when, instead of cutting over the middle of the field, he followed the teaching ·of Rockne and permitted himself to be tackled out of bounds. He might ha.ve cut in and run 40 more yards to a touchdown and personal glory, bu~ there was a chance of being tackled ncar the sidelines and "Rock" had told him to run outside when in a position like this. His sacrifice had its reward on the next pla.y when Joe Savoldi got away on a reverse for a score. 
As a member of the 1929 shock troops, "Bucky's" work stamps him as an­other of Notre Dame's great work-horses -the right half-backs who· block for the other fellow. 



JOE NASH 
Center 

Just another reason why Coach Rockne was optimistic this year is found in Joe Nash, shock troop pivot man. 
He had distinguished himself time and again during the '1928 season by his all-around heady play and notably by his 60-yard touchdown run against Drake on an intercepted Bulldog pass, but this year he outdid even himself. 
In every game he _got the call with the bruise-absorbing shockers, who never get such a lot of credit, but who are in there for a purpose. He received a very painfully sprained ankle in the Drake game, but· was back again the next week to relieve Moynihan and to perform his usual wearing-down duties against the Southern California Trojans. \Vhen "Big Tim" broke his ankle in the Northwestern scrap, Joe was right there to fill his place and he bore the brunt of the attack and defense against Army in the finale. 
It's spirit like this that makes Notre Dame a winning team and his passing, with that of Moynihan, is going to leave a vacancy in the Notre Dame ranks that will be hard to fill. · 
... 



REGIS McNAMARA 
Left Tac:kle 

Don't let the first name fool you folks. If ever an unsuspecting infant was misnamed, Mr. McNamara of the shock troops was some so years ago by fond parents, who, in all probability, never dreamed that their son would grow up into a big, raw-boned footballer. 
At any rate, his fellow players have decided that ..Mac" is much more fitting moniker and have attached it to this fighting Soph who does his work at left tackle with the shock troops. Filling in for Ted Twomey, we tell you, is no easy assignment, but McNamara did it about as well as any one could ha,ve this year. · 
He was aggressive, fast, deceptive, and smart all the time he played with the second club and never failed to have his man considerably softened up for Ted to finish. 
Mac played easily as much ball as any other Sophomore lineman and will be counted on to do big things for ..Rock" and Line Coach Tom Lieb during the next two seasons when he will cavort in Notre Dame's new stadium. 
TI-IOMAS KENNEALLY 
Quarter-Back 

Small in body, but great in mind and brain power, Tom Kenneally rated second to none as a chooser of strategic plays. Handicapped by his size throughout his early career, Kenneally got his start with a hall team where he was first noticed by Rockne. This year he came through nobly with the var­sity squad. · 
Realizing that next to using his head, a quarter-back's most important job is to block, the earnest Tommy concentrated on this department and this sea­son his blocking was excellent. Competing with two of the best quarter-backs .in the country, he did not see as much action as they did, but at every oppor­
tunity he added further proof to his ability. · 

· His sensational run in the Northwestern game, after he had perceived ~hat the man to whom he was to throw a lateral pass was covered, was a striking indi~ation of the hair-t~igger quickness with which his brain functions. 


EDMOND COLLINS 
Left E1zd 

Another member of the team following in the footsteps of an older brother was Eddie ·Collins. Some years ago ..Chuck" Collins was holding down one of the wing positions on Notre Dame's varsity. 
Along ·came little brother Ed, not so little at that, to demonstrate that foot­ball is a decided family trait as far as he is concerned. He is a great defensive end-no opposing team carrying the ball on those sweeping flank plays ever got by him and many of these formations were smeared behind the line of scrimmage as he broke through fast and sure. 
In addition to being poison on defense Ed was no novice at the art of pass­
1

catching, and was also very capable as ·a swift, heady leader of interference. Completing his third year on the varsity, Ed has written another glowing chapter in the volume of brother history on Notre Dame teams. 



BERNARD LEAHY 
Left Half 

"The greatest find of the season and another Chris Flanagan," said· Coach Rockne as he watched Bernie Leahy perform in the first Freshman game this year and far be it from us to dispute ..Rock's" word. 
Bernie had the misfortune to be playing at the same time as Jack Elder, how­ever, and although he could match the ..Rabbit"· at everything else, he didn't have quite the speed that was in Jack's flying legs. For .this ·reason, he spent most of the year as a reserve man, but ,at every opportunity he·demonstrated qualities that mark him as a man possessing triple threat ability and more. 
One of the best passers, kickers,· and runners on tl~e squad, Leahy is also a good defensive back and a hard blocker. He should see plenty of action whe!l he closes his career at Notre Dame next season. 

JOHN O'BRIEN 
Left End 

If Johnny O'Brien never does another thing on the gridiron, his name will go down among Notre Dame's immortals as the man who scored the winning touchdown against Army last year and the only player ever embraced by Coach Rockne. 
But "Tex", as he is more familiarly known, was not content to rest on his laurels. He was out every da.y this season working hard and was a .constant threat to Notre Dame's nine opponents. By dint of much hard labor, he has brought himself up to a level with the best all-around ends on the squad. He can block to perfection, he is a good defensive man, and he has mastered the little finesses of Notre Dame ends that go to throw opponents off their guard and pull them offsides. 
Primarily a track man-the best hurdler on the squad, in fact-O'Brien has joined the ranks of the very few cinder artists to attain fame on the gridiron. He won the Army game his Sophomore year and has another chance to per­form next season. 
AUGUST BONDI 
Right Guard 

Gus is another of the "watch-charm" guards that distinguish Rockne­coached football teams. Only five feet nine inches in height, he has the drive and defensive qualities that distinguished John "Clipper" Smith, All-American and captain in 1927. 
A guard never has much chance to distinguish himself, especially when his lot is to understudy Capt. Johnny Law, but Gus gave good account of him­self whenever opportunity knocked. He has plenty of fight and his snappy talk in the line is an inspiration to his teammates. 
Bondi will leave Notre Dame in June. with the satisfaction of knowing that he made good in the school where football competition is the keenest in the world. 

I I 
I 
j 
("~~ 

GEORGE.VLK ·· ... ·Right-End : · 

The despair of. radio announcers and reporters, George Vlk was a real joy to Coach Rockne _and ~11. N~~~~-J?a~eJoll.o:wer~ ?u:ing the past se~son,. 
\Vith Manny Vezie out of ~he. gam~ f1 large part· of the time with ·.hi~. Leon Errol trick knee, George alterna_red with Tom Conley. and handed in some very creditable performances. He was given jus~-a bare outside chance of making good last se~son .when he ro~p~d al?out ~ith the reserves, but he came up fast in spring practice and was' playing with 'the varsity and shock troops a large part of the time this fall. . · · 
Unlike many wingmen, George -ha~ ~o specialty. He is a good defensi~e man, a ca.gey pass receiver, and· a smart blocker. Players as consistent as· Vlk are few and far between, and his steadiness promises much for next year when he will wind. up his Notre Dame. career. 
CLARENCE KAPLAN 
Right Half 

\Ve warn you, don't be misled if you see a slight, unassuming lad wearing large shell-rimmed glasses and answering to the name of Clarence. For the chances are it's none other than "Cap" Kaplan one of the most promising Sophomore backs on the squad. 
He was robbed of a chance to score the first touchdown of the season when he caught Carideo's pass just a. foot past the end zone against Indiana, but he showed some real stuff in the \Visconsin game when, as he started around left end and found his way blocked, he reversed his field and picked up 13 yards to put the ball in scor.ing position. .. · 
«Cap" has keen footb~ll sense, he is a real triple-threat man, and a good blocker and tackler-an exceptional one considering his lack of weight. He was hampered by a s~oulder ~njury this yea~, but always came back for more, and will return for still more next fall. 
Any Soph with a monogr~~ at Notre Dame has quality, and Clarence Kaplan is no exception. 




NORBERT CHRISTMAN 
Quarter-Back 

.. Chris" is a smart young quarter-back who just finished his first year on the team. Hailing from Green Ba..y, \Vis., where the snow flies, the thermometers drop, and the Packers win pro championships, it was only logical that he should don the moleskins at Notre Dame. 
Norb had not only the atmosphere but the ability to play the pigskin game, .and he traveled with the team the whole season. Inexperienced at the begin­ning of the year, he did not sec much action, but in the N orthwcstcrn game his chance came and he grasped it. Sent into the game in the third quarter, he turned in a clever piece of generalship, directing the plays that led to Notre Dame's last touchdown. 
\Vith the experience gained this yearand the natural ability he has already shown, Christman should develop into one of Notre Dame's ablest signal callers. 
\ 
GEORGE SHAY 
Full-Bacl~ 

There have been many good football players at Notre Dame. There have been some about whom clung that mystic aura that is greatness, but it is doubtful whether there has ever been a better defensive full-back at Notre Dame than George ..Dinny" Shay. 
When Dinny was a. Freshman his defensive work against the varsity in scrim­mage so impressed one of the coaches that he said if he' were to have a team composed entirely of All-American players, he could not have or. wish for a better defensive back than Shay. · 
His blocking is good, his plunging fair, and his open :field running, nothing· much at all, but the way he backs up a. line is really great. Rugged, hard, quiet, he has come and gone, and the outside world has known him but little. 
But those who have played against or with him will remember him for what he really is-one of the greatest defensive backs of Notre Dame history. 


ALLAN HOWARD 
Fulf-Back 

AI followed the footsteps of Larry Mullins all the way from California to Notre Dame and a full-back position with the varsi~y squad. 
Since he .was a comparative newcomer to football, not much was expected of him early in the season, but he soon developed an a.ggressiveness and de­termination that carried him up among the leaders in the· Rockn~ backfield. 
His first game was against Wisconsin and here he first showed the spirit that was to carry him on against Georgia Tech, Drake, and Northwestern. In all of these games, particularly the Drake one, he carried the ball well, blocked effectively, tackled precisely, and showed proficiency in every depart,ment of the game. 
His showings in the Drake and Northwestern games give promise of a _future of note in his remaining two years at Notre Dame. 


THOMASYARR 
Center 

\Vith two experienced pivot men ahead of him in the persons of Tim Moynihan and Joe Nash, Tommy saw little action in the closer games this fall, but showed the makings of a center of distinction when he had the 
c~~~ . 
Traveling with the ustadiumless champions" throughout the season he gained a wide range of experience that should help him considerably. dur­ing the next few years. He used his weight and broad shoulders to good advantage in the Drake and Northwestern games where he saw most of his action this year, arid to clear him of a false charge, we might diverge at this point for a moment. 
One of his center passes had got away from him in the \Vildcat game and put the Purple in scoring position. Later, when the ball was fumbled by a Notre Dame back and recovered by a Northwestern lineman for a touchdown, Tommy was immediately blamed for the affair, but we got it straight from the quarter-back that Yarr made no miscue on this play, but rather that one of the backs did. · 
His well-balanced proportions of brain and brawn coupled with his natural and developed ability should put him with the first string. for the next two years. 

JOSEPH LOCKE 
Guard 

Locke is another of the consistent linemen who saw action with the shock· troops during the past season. Joe is not the beefy type of lineman, but re­lied on speed and headwork to carry out his assignments on offense. And when the other side had possession of the ball, it gained very few yards through his section of the line. · 
If the spirit to fight hard at all times has anything to do with the making of a successful football player, it was one of the reasons that Locke was .. up there." Quiet and unassuming off the field, he rose to the heights of fire and dash when he donned a suit ·to become .a literal tower. of strength. 
His presence on the squad next year, his last at Notre Dame, will be wel­come indeed. · 
ARTHUR McMANMON 
Right Tacl?..le 

Preceded by a brother, .. Big John" ·of the famous Seven Mules of 1924, Art was not entirely devoid of background when he came to Notre Dame !ast year. 
Plenty of beef, added to his height, was combinel with a-ggressiveness and fight to make him one of the most dependable men on the squad. He was in the starting lineup with the shock troops whenever they performed and was out­standing for his blocking, defensive work, and especially for his ability to open holes for the backs. Many of Savoldi's and Schwartz's longer runs were made through the gaps opened by Mac. 
\Vith two more years of competition ahead of him, Art will undoubtedly be a star lineman in the Notre Dame wall and will carry on the McManmon tra­dition started by his big brother; 

·:i 
~­

THOMAS MURPHY .RightEnd .·. . ) .. ' . 
Yom heard the call of Notre Dame football_, 'way.· out. in Connecticut and hurried out to the Rockne stables to try his luck. 
• j ' • • ~ • • • • • 0 • : ~ • • • 

Neither Notre Dame nor Tom was sorry .at his. decision. There was plenty of competition at the right wing this y~ar, but this tall, ·rangy lad never got· lost in the shuffle. An outstanding blocker and. tackler, he distinguished him­selt in the Northwestern and Drake games as an excellent pass receiv~r. . 
He· never looks )ike he is goi.ng to quite rea~h the ba.ll· when he starts after a toss, he never seems to be running very fast, but. just· at the right moment out go those large hands of his and he seldom fails to. connect. · 
Tommy has another year ~f competition in which to distinguish himself un­der the Blue and Gold of Notre Dame. 


ALCULVER· 
Left Tackle 

On~ of the best reasons why ..Rock" said at the beginning of the season that he would have the toughest team in football history and one strong in re­serves is found in AI Culver. 
\Veil .()ver six feet tall -and better than 200 ·pounds in weight, Culver has the requisites that go to make the perfect tackle. Like numerous other Sopho­more candidates, though, he was reminded that only eleven men can play with the first string and that Seniors and Juniors must be given first choice when there is any doubt as to whom to use, because the second year men will get their chance by and by. 
He played bang-up ball in the chances he got this fall and marked himself as a man to keep in mind next year when another Seven-Mule Team is being ?rganized to charge before another set of Horsemen. · 
The Trainers 

"Doctor" Joe Abbott and his crew of trainers may not be miracle workers, but they come mighty close to this mark with their overnight cures of bad sprains and bruises. Joe, who is next year's track captain, ex-president of th~ Monogram club and not really a doctor at all, has charge of all those mysterious violet rays, electric· pads, reducing machines, and scientific hot water applica­tions that clutter up the training rooms. 
Dr.· Frank Summers and Dr. Frank Powers ha.ve done some remarkable work along the black magic line during the past season as have the three "masseurs," Marshall Kizer, Gene Howard, and Roy Cook. 
Naturally a fast man, Joe is always the first on the field when a player 'is taking the count and he usually has the patient well on the road to recovery when the others draw up. They all work fast, though. If you don't think so, try this sometime: take the first unconscious person . you run across, bring him to his senses, diagnose his case, and give him. first aid. all in two very short, fleet­ing moments. 
That's just one of the little routine functions of the training sta.ff that go on week after week. 
/ 


The Cheer leaders 
A very tall, but very limber young man dressed all in white trots out be­fore a packed stadium, gracefully obliges with a smooth cartwheel, turns around, and takes a bow or two. He is joined by four immaculately togged assistants, and, under their direction, a mighty cheer goes up. 
There you have it. Dan· Barton and his four scintillating helpers showing a football-mad ·conglameration ·of persons how to give vent to their feelings in the most effective way. · 
The cheering at the Chicago "home" games and at the season's record­breaking pep sessions played no little part in the success of "The New Four Horsemen." Smiling Dan, the world's best yell-producer, played no small role in the production of these ground-rocking roars. 
He was very capably assisted by Art Goulet and Ed Madden, Juniors; and Sophomores Powers and Kennedy, all of whom will do their stuff next season during the first year of home football in the new Notre Dame stadium. 
Give 'em a hand, folks, they'v:e earned it. 

I 
DAN BARTON 
Head Cheerleader 


·The Band 
The University Band, under the capable direction of Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta, was a real record-breaker this year. 
It broke its own record for size with a membership of 85. It made :five trips to games-three to Chi­cago, one to Evans ton, and one to New York-another new mark. It played before an average audience of about 80,000 persons in its :five appearances to set a season's total of approximately 400,000, a record that will stand for all bands for some time. 
And if the organization did not set a new standard for quality of music offered and smart drilling, we are no judge of either. Director Casasanta. had a wealth of last year's men to work with this year · and . used them to the best possible advantage. 
On four successive Saturdays the unit had to play songs of Drake, 
Southern California, North:western, and Army as well as At pep meetings and at games, the band was an inspira­learn new formations for these schools. This was no ordi­tion to the student body and to the team as well. There nary task, but the combined efforts of Prof. Casasa~ta, was nothing but praise for the organization this year as Pres. Harry Busscher, and Drum Major Henry Tholen made it sent the ((Victory March" and Director Casasanta.'s own it look easy. uHike Song" ringing through the crisp Fall air.
. , 



The Band on Parade. 
The Reserves 
1929 RECORD 
October 12, Reserves ----------------12; \Vestern Sta.te Normal--:-·___.:..______ 7 
October 19, Reserv~s--------~---~--~1.9; :_Fer;is I~sti~ute -------:-----------6 
October 19, Reserves____________.:.._.:.....:. 7;: Mic~igan State Norm:iL__.;.. ______12 
October 2 6, Reserves----------------6; \V~sco~~in.' Reserves ---'------------10 
October 26, Reserves________________12; Northwestern Reserves ___________ 0 
October 26, Reserves ________________46; Valparaiso ·_.:. ________~ ____:.._ ______ 3 
November 2, Reserves_ ________ .:._ ____13; Minnesota Res~rves --------------0 
November. 9, Reserves_ _____________ 81;. Ball Teachers'-~ College____________ 6 
November 9, Reserves_:-_________ ..;.__ 7; Iowa Reserves: -------------:--.:...__ 0 
November 23, Reserves_ ____ .:_________ 0; Kalamazoo ---------------------0 
' . By HARRy A. SYLVESTER 
Once again a Notre Dame varsity team has completed a point for \Visconsin, and Davidson put the game away for highly successful season and once· again the reserve or uB" the Cardinals with a 35-yard drop-kick from the sidelines, 
'I 

teams have done nigh as well as the first squad. the ball traveling over 45 yards in the air. 
Traveling to nine ·games-as m~ny as the varsity itself Another squad just· about ruined Valparaiso's h~mecom­journeyed to-and playing two· at home, the reserves ac­ing with a 46 to 3 victory over the little school with the quitted themselves nobly and well. At times they had to big riame. A third squad achieved a victory second only to split their squad and play two or three games on the same the varsity's when it ran rough-shod over Northwestern's day, and it is significant to note. that they never lost a «B" team in the last quarter to score a 12 to 0 win. Only game in the last two years when t;he· squad was intact. five playswere used in Notre Dame's offensive at Evanston. This year they left behind them a reputation for clean·, 
· The cream of the reserve squad journeyed northwardhard play and football smarter than is expected of re­on Nov. 2 to play Minnesota's scrubs in a night-cap toserve teams. 
the Minnesota-Indiana game. Although outweighed some 
They opened their season with a 12 to 7 victory over ten pounds to the man, the Notre Dame club had little \Vestern State Normal at Kalamazoo on Oct. 12. They difficulty in disposing of the Gophers, 13 to 0. So strong outplayed the Teachers decisively in this opening game was their defense that not once did Minnesota have the and, according to watchers, deserved a larger score, but ball outside its own 3O~yard line. then a victory is a victory and why fuss about what 
The next week, the reserves split· again, one squad st~y­should have been? 
ing at home and the other going to Muncie for a night 
The next week, the reserves split up and received their game with Ball State Teachers' College. The squad that first taste of defeat. One squad went to Big Rapids, closed Cartier field's history eked out a 7 to 0 victory in a Mich., and played Ferris Institute's eleven off its feet to bitterly fought contest that saw Iowa deep in Irish terri­win, 19 to 6. Another club went to Ypsilanti, Mich., and tory several times, but lacking in the old touchdown was not so fortunate in its game with Michigan State punch. In the shadow of its own goal posts, the Notre Normal. This uB" team lost, 12 to 7, although having Dame defense was as effective as it was mediocre in mid­somewhat of an edge in the statistician's column. field. The club at Muncie evidently found after:-dark foot­
ball to its liking, for, in an exhibition of dazzling offensive 
Oct. 26 was a big day in Notre Dame football. While 

. ball, it rolled up what stands as possibly the highest scorethe varsity was taking its revenge from Carnegie Tech at ever totaled by any uB" team, 81 to 6. Led by SheekestkiPittsburgh, the reserves divided into three groups and won and the shifty Koken, the reserve backs ran wild behind atwo out of three games. In a game at Cartier field marked line that tore gaping holes in the home team's defense.
by an abundance of fluke plays which worked to the ad­vantage of both teams, the uB" team lost to Wisconsin's The reserves took a rest on Nov. 16 and hied themselves reserves, 10 to 6. Abe Zoss, South Bend's flashy contribu­to the Southern California game at Soldier field to watch tion at guard, intercepted a Badger pass for Notre Dame's the varsity 'score its most brilliant victory of the season. touchdown, Obendorfer tied the score with a 57-yard run They closed their year in more or less of a lethargy against after scooping up a . juggled ball, Lutz added the extra Kalamazoo college at Kalamazoo the next week. Although again they had t~e edge in first downs, yards from scrim­mage, and everything else that goes to console beaten and tied teams, they came out of the Kalamazoo fray in a deadlock which saw no score on either side. 
An interesting story was told ·in a Chicago newspaper office concerning Notre Dame's showing on Oct. 26, the big day. It seems the sports editor had decided to run all of his reserve game stories under a single head and thus keep them together rather than scattered all through his sheet. \Vhen press time rolled around, he found that he had four stories-three of them were Notre Dame's and two of them Irish victories. 
This comprehensive schedule that the Reserves play is but another exhibition of the genius that is Rockne's. Realizing that actual competition under fire· against an­other team representing another institution, is the best way to bring out the best that is in his men, he also re­alizes that so large is the squad that it is impossible for them all to get this experience in the varsity games. Hence the reserve games which have indeed pro"duced_ results. It was from the ranks of the reserves that some of Notre Dame's brightest stars arose. Leppig, Flanagan, Elder and Nash; Law, Colrick and Vezie are but a very few of the names that have achieved prominence after an apprentice­ship on the Reserves. 

And last, but most important, comes the hardest and 
. yet the most valuable thing that the Reserves do; namely, act as the scrub team for the varsity. \Veil-nigh every week, one or more reserve teams learn the plays that the varsity's opponents will use on the coming Saturday, and all that week the Reserves will shoot these plays at the varsity in live or dummy scrimmage, thus enabling the varsity to acquaint itself with the offense they will meet on the following Saturday. This is no easy task, but under the inspiration of men like Chevigny and Lieb, and always with the realization that "Rock's" presence hovers over the field whether he is present or not,. the Reserves have time and again helped win games in which they did not play. 
Rockne HearS Navy Game on Special \Wire 

Lying in bed list~ning to his team win an important in­tersectional game was a new experience for Coach Knute Rockne, but that was all there. was left for him to do on the afternoon of Oct. 12. 
It was the week-before the Navy game that the Notre Dame wizard first had been stricken with the congestion in his leg, and when the time came for his boys to leave, he had been told by his doctor that to accompany them to Baltimore would be to remain bedfast all season. Re­luctantly accepting the lesser of the two evils, "Rock" did not, however, put the game entirely out of his active mind. 
He arranged to ha.ve a leased wire to Baltimore con­nected to the phone at the side of his bed, and Saturday morning he talked to every. man on the ·squad, offering bits of advice, encouragement, and last-minute strategy. 
Came the game. Here was Rockne, 800 miles from the scene of battle,: helpless. . There was his team .that had looked none too impressive the week before against Indiana -anp there was one of the greatest Navy elevens in the Academy's history. . \Vould his men be equal to their great task· without him to guide them? 
·It seemed they might not when the Middies rushed the shock troops off their feet and scored in the first quarter. The invalid leader frowned. Then came the report that the first team was in, and right after this the news that Carideo had. completed his· spectacular pass to Elder for a touchdown and had tied the ·score with his kick. He was all smiles now. 
\Vhen lvlullins plunged over Navy's go~l a while later to put· the game on ice, he lean~d hac~ and sighed. a long, satisfying sigh o_f relief. Y.es, sir, they were a great bunch of ·boys. And "Rock" must be a great teacher and leader when his boys can play like they did at Navy with­out him there :to point out each move. 
Jf 
! 

OFFICIAL FO.OTBALL REVIEW-1929 


Notre Datne-A Teatn That Packs 'Etn In 

.. Panoramic view of the 120,000 crowd that jammed Soldier ~ield to see the Notre Dame-South~rn California-game. 
. What Jack Dempsey was to boxing, what Babe Ruth is to baseball, what Bobby Jones is to golf-that is what 
Notre Dame represents to football. 
The crowd loves action, fighting h~arts, and the faculty for coming back when defeat seems inevitable, and Notre Dame teams have never failed to show these qualities. That the 1929 team wa~ no exception to the rule is shown by the fact that they packed in a total audience of 600,000 persons, or an average of over 65,000 at each game, to set a new mark that won't be broken for some time. 
. uThe New Four Horsemen".·opened their season before a Homecoming crowd of 20,000 at Bloomington, and the ~ext week a sellout gathering of 80,000 saw them beat the· Navy at Baltimore. Coming into their uback yard home field" in Chicago, Oct. 19, they romped about before 100,000 pairs of eager eyes to beat \Visconsin. 
The following week, 70,000, the largest crowd ever to witness a sporting· event in Pittsburgh, saw them _play Carnegie Tech. It was the first time the Carnegie stadium, built in 1.925, was filled. Thirty-five thousand saw them get revenge from Georga Tech at Atlanta· on Nov. 2. Their fame thus far drew a crowd of 45,000 to the Drake game the next week, and following tha.t they equalled their own record -with a conglameration of some 120,000 souls at Soldier Field when they played Southern California. 
Chicago's intersectional clash with Washington did not stop 50,000 persons from turning out Nov. ·23 to see Notre Dame wrestle with the Northwestern \Vildcats. The 80,000 pasteboards for the traditional Army game in New York were sold out before the season opened and an added 200,000 applications were re~urned to their senders. 
The last three games were all sellouts, for that matter, a striking tribute to a team that came back after losing four games the previous year and fought its way to the top of the heap again. 
. The mobs go fo.r winners and for teams that never quit when they are fighting a losing battle. They want to see football played scientific~lly, but. not if the elements of fight and daring are lost. The keen knowledge of the game and the inspiration Coach Rockne gives his players combines both of the elements th~t the public wants. 
That is why 600,000 persons went milling through the turnstiles of the nation's largest stadia this year. Notre Dame football satisfies-but it is not mild. 
HIKE SONG 
T be march is on-No brain or brawn Can stojJ the charge of fighting men. Loud rings tbe cry · Of grim defy Of hard attack let loose again. 0, it's a Hike! Hike! Hilu! to victory, Tbe call to rise and strilw, For Notre Dame men are wimzing 'Vben Notre.Dmite bears Hilwl Hike! Hike/ 
CHORUS 
Hark to tbe cbeering, 
Songs rising bigb. 
Hark to tbe roar 
As ber raulu go marchiug by. 
Shoulder to shoulder, 
Chautiug her glorious 11ame 
Burn bigh your fires 
A11d swing along for Notre Dame. 


The Manager~ 
\Vith Notre Dame playing every game of its 1929 schedule on the road, the task of the student managers was a gigantic one. 
Too much credit cannot be given to head mana.ger, John Quinn and associa.te man­ager, Bernard Conroy, for the efficient way in which they took care of the countless details of the trips to Bloomington, Balti­more, Pittsburgh, Atlanta, Evanston, New York and Chicago. 
Every week trunks had to be packed, rail­road, hotel, and eating reservations made, and a thousand and one other details taken care of. \Vhen the team was not. traveling,· it was practicing at home, and equipment had to be ha.ndled, scouts and others who did not belong had to be kept off the field, and players had to be checked in. 
Besides the varsity trips, there were eight reserve games on foreign fields and two at home to be handled. These trips were handled by the 'following Junior managers: Tom Ashe, Robert Balfe, Dan Halpin, Jack 
Hughes, Joseph Lauerman, Bourke Motsett, and Jack the staff; contrary to general opinion, the managers are 
Saunders; and these Senior managers: Anthony Kegowicz, something more than mere valets to the players. 
Con Carey, Robert· Hellrung, Gene Kennedy, and The success of the 1929 team was due in a large way to Frank O'Marah assisted by the ten Sophomore man­the efficient manner in which Quinn, Conroy, and their a.gers. The group of seventy Freshmen managers who aides-de-camp took the burden of responsibility from reported in September was cut to twenty during the Coach Rockne and the players and relieved them of un­
season. This is an indication of the 'rivalry that exists on necessary worry. 



Front Row: J. McKean, J. Grams, J. Lauerman, J. Saunders, J. Hughes, D. D. Halpin, C. Carey, F. O'Marah, J. Quinn, B. Conroy, A. Kegowicz, T. Ashe, R. C. Balfe, C. Weiss, J. Gill, J. Ross, W. Corr. Middle Row: J. Ryan, G. Armbruster, \V. Johnston, J. Greer, H. Schalnick, J. Kennedy, D. Lasardi, W. Kenefick, E. Noble, M. Mulville, D. Fox, S. Addonisio, P. Brannon, C. Spangenberg, J. Colville. Back Row: J. Baker, P. Aubrey, T. Murray, J. Birke, A. O'Keefe, J.. Pick, C. Preston, L. Raddatz, \V. "'fcGeory, F. Buhl, H. Prendergast, F. Van Allyn, 
E. Bergan, R. Noll, J; McCoy, J. Williams, R. \Velty, A. Wirry, B. Shinners. Absent when picture was taken: G. Kennedy, B. Motsett, R. Hellrung, R. Conley, J. Walsh, J. Kelleher. 
i[ 

OFFICIAL FOOT.BALL REVIEW-1929 

Scenes from early ga~es on Cartier Field. 
ttThe Passing of the Old-'' 
By RonERT E. G9RMAN 
Cartier Field, hallowed soil at Notre Dame, is now merely a tradition. The historic old battlefield, scarred by the cleats of many an Irish immortal, has finally yielded to the growth of football~a growth in which one of those immortals, Knute Rockne himself, has been instrumental. 
The nation-wide following which Notre Dame teams 

enjoy today makes it difficult for us to believe that there was ever a time when a Notre Dame football team was -not an attraction. Such was the case, however, back in the days when the University was scarcely a wind-break on the Indiana prairies. Interhall football at that time was more popular than interscholastic competition, and the number of spectators that assembled to watch the varsity play could usually be accomodated on the players' bench. Foot­ball, like checkers, was then distinctly a game to play 
rather than to watch. 
In thos.e days Notre Dame played such teams as the Illinois Cycling Club, Englewood High School, and the Indianapolis Artillery. The advent of such all-time Notre Dame stars as Hering, Eggeman, and Salmon served to arouse interest in the sp~rt, and \Visconsin, Northwestern, Indiana, and other ·present-day opponents of the local school were added to the schedule. As more and more people were attracted to the games, which were then held on a :field known as Brownson Campus, the need was felt for an enclosed :field. 
University officials wrote to alu_mni for help in this 
project. It was at this time that \Varren Cartier, of the 
class of '87, donated the plot of land which, under his 
name and the name of Notre Dame, was to achieve un­
dying fame. Bleachers were erected for each game as the 
only permanent seats at that time were in a baseball grand­
stand at one end of the :field. 
Cartier Field, as such, was a distinct improvement, but it, too, became inadequate when the bewildering· genius of a. ·second brilliant coterie of stars headed by Dorais, Eichenlaub, and Rockne himself, com­

manded the attention of the entire football world. Accordingly, Jesse Harper, who was then head coach, in 1915, erected perma­nent stands seating 1,000. 
These seats, together with 1,000 more which were addc;d in the follow­ing year, sufficed until 1919. In that . year, Rockne, who had mean­while become head coach, . promised that if he were · allowed to erect another 5,000 seats he would pay for them with the re­ceipts from the next two games. After being granted th~ desired permission ..Rock" carried out his end 

\Vfarren A. Cartier 

of the bargain. Since. that year the seating facilities of the :field were gradually enlarged until the stadium reached its ultimate capacity. 
And now the Cartier stands arc being torn down to sat­isfy the ever-onward stride · of progress. Cartier itself passes, but the permanence of the Cartier Field tradition has been insured by the grid· genius of Gipp, Rockne, Eichenlaub, Dorais, Kiley, and other Notre Dame men of might; by the Four Horsemen and the rest of the famous 1924 championship combination; by ·the phenomenal record for consecutive victories; or by any one of these factors alone. 

'I 
I 
I 


\Vhen the shovels first started last summer 


How the completed stadium will look 

•• 1·" 

The 'completed.excavati~n. The dirt in the middle .is for the sunken playing :field 
-And the Cotning. of the New'' 

J. ARTHUR HALEY 
Bus. Mgr. of Atbletics 
Next fall Notre Dame .will open another era in its foot­ball history,· when the 1930 team moves into its new stadium. New traditions will take their place with those of the past Notre Dame fields and new heroes will join the school's immortals. who have brought glory to Our Lady on the sod of theold gridirons. A new policy of having five games at home to four away will be introduced and such terms as ((The Ramblers" and ((The Nomads" will go into discard.-· 
Although construction work is well under way on the new stnictutc, a definite name had not been chosen for it, as this book went to press. Probability that it will be. called simply ((Notre Dame Field" has been expressed by authori­ties, however. The new amphitheater located just south of the old Cartier field stands will cost in the neighborhood of $700,000 and will scat 60,000 persons in its first form. \Vith an eye to the continued popularity of Notre Dame football, the structure will be· built so that it may be en­larged around the outside to hold 80,000, ·and, with the addition of decks, to seat 120,000. 
Every possible convenience has ·been provided in the plans of the new Notre Da~e stands. They are rcctangu-· lar in shape so that spectators may be as ncar the playing field as possible. Thirty-six portals will facilitate handling of the crowds; dressing rooms, a first-aid hospital room, concession stands, 18 handball and squash courts, storage rooms, and other necessary offices will be found .under the seats in easy access to the field. The glass encl~scd press stand will accomodate 250 reporters and will be fitted with ind~vidual telegraph jacks, electric heaters, and three 

' broadcasting booths. 
The edifice is designed strictly for football and the playing field, ten feet below the exterior' grade, will con­tain no track or baseball facilities. Electric scoreboards built into the stands at both ends of the field will give the usual statistics as relayed by ·phone from the sidelines. 
Excavation work was finished early in theFall a·n:d foot­ings for the superstructure have been laid ~0 that work on the stands thc~selves may be carried on in the remaining months before ·the portals are thrown open next September. Ralph Sollitt & Sons, South Bend contractors, are super­vising constructi(?n work, and the Osborne Engineering Co., of Cleveland, Ohio, drew· the plans. Possibility that railroad spurs directly to the field may be laid to accomo­date out-of-town spectators has been expressed. 
The extensive work. of financing the new structure is being carried on by J. Arth_ur Haley, business manager of athletics; Rev. Michael A. Mulcaire, C.S.C., Ph.D.; chair­man of the. athletic board of control; and other faculty members. A very attractive offer for box seats over a ten­year period has·. been offered and many loyal followers of Notre Dame football have responded to assure the success of the new structure. 
The new stadium represents a dream of Coach Rockne's realized.: In. his playing days, as he was chasing the passes of Gus Dorais all over the playing field, he never thought that soine ·day his teams would win fame that would lead to his ·first ·stands of 5,000 seating capacity. Once he had these, though, he kept going until he got the present Cartier stands. Never satisfied, he started to plan for a stadium that would take its place with the nation's best; ·and he will have just that in this new home of Our Lady's foot­ball warriors. . 
According·to present plans, the U. S. Naval academy teain will dedicate the new stands next year and many of the outstanding elevens of the country. will meet Notre Dame's future teams in the ((House builded upon •Rock'." 
At the St. Joe Valley Notre Dame club's annual testi­monial banquet for the team, December· 5, Coach Bill Ingram, of Navy, stated that he hoped: the Naval academy might be represented at the dedication of the new stadium by a regiment of midshipmen. He said that he will do everything in his power to have the midshipmen in. attend­ance at this game. 
Pat Page, Indiana's head coach; said that he is looking forward with pleasure to his game with Notre Dame in the new stadium next fall. At this writing, Indiana and Navy are the only two· teams booked definitely for games in the new arena, ·although Drake is almost a sure bet to be on the horn:e schedule of the 1930 team. Contests .with two 'other prominent elevens are pending and will be announced before Christmas. 
Coach Rockne has stated that he will never book another tough schedule, but from all advance indications it.would seem that he 1s broadcasting just another of his famous bear stories. 

Colri~k, Locke, Brill, Schwartz, Donoghu'e, Bondi, Howt, Twomey, Murphy, B. Leahy, Cannon, Yarr, .McManmoh 
Below, left to right: Trainer Abbott, Managers Conroy al Mills, and Lieb, Head Coach Rockne. 

National Champion~ 

Moynihan, Me_tzger, Gebert, Nash, Elder, KaElan, O'Brien, ~rd, Koken, Shay, Kepneally: Culver, McNamara,_ Vlk, r,-Mullins, Collins, Conley, Carideo, Vezie, Capt. Law.­
nd Quinn~ Assistant ·coaches Jones, Voedisch, Chevigny, 
-----1929 
Record ·Breakers -The "Zepp" and Notre Dame 

National Champions ---.. -1929 
..~ . 

-
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1929
50 

Freshm.an Football 

A new syste111 of practice was introduced to Freshman football men this fall by Coaches Tommy Mills and Bill Jones. In former· years, the Frosh had been employed largely as ufall guys" for the varsity. Each week they would learn the play of the enemy that scouts had brought home, and, after mastering these formations as well as possible in a week's time, they would scrimmage with the varsity. 
Time showed this to be not only a bad thing for the yearlings, ·but now and then unfortunate for _the varsity. The green-jersied lads could not organize their team play effectively enough to make any sort of headway against their older and more powerful colleagues, mimy were in­jured on jumbled· signals, and the varsity did not get the opposition it wanted-at least on defense. 
\Vhen the big boys took the ball; however, a different story was told; the varsity got more resistance than it could handle! Even today you hear stories on the campus· about how Torn Kassis wanted to clean up on All-American Bud Boeringer, and how Dick Donoghue outplayed the whole varsity line before the Army game of 1926, when they were in their first year. 
So this fall, Tommy and Bill kept their Freshmen over in a secluded corner of Cartier practice field and let them turn their vigor into other channels. They drilled on fundamentals; men who played full-back in high school merely because they were big, were shifted to tackle if they belonged there, the Notre Dame style of play was taught the men, and in general, they prepared for spring practice when they will' themselves be varsity material. 
Some 200 men reported this fall when practice started and immediately they were put to work preparing for the annual fall classic known as the Freshman-Varsity game. 

\Vith but a week· to organize these 200 lads from Holly­wood to Naugatuck, the Freshman coaches were unable to make much of a classic of this contest and the varsity ran up a 96 to 0 score. The rapid improvement in the Frosh ranks and the judicious weeding-out that Mills and Jones engineered in a week's time were shown in a second game ·when the varsity, too, was better organized, but which it. won by only a 72 to 0 score, making 3 6 points in the last quarter against the tired yearlings. In both these games individuals stood out who later were to dis­tinguish themselves as real material for Coach ··Rockne to usc next year. . 
They had distinguished . themselves quickly, too,· for the squad was shaved to a mere 80 in short order. These seven-odd squads were put to work right away on funda­mentals. They learned Navy and Drake plays for use in scrimmage against the varsity, but otherwise ·went through much the same routine as the varsity itself. 
The number of real football players who came to light during the fall speaks well for next season's prospects. A pair of smart, inspiring quarter-backs were found in Herb D'Avignon, who prepped at Mt. Assumption Institute, Foust, N. Y., and Laurrie Vejar, from Hollywood high, at the other end of the continent. 
Steve Banas, a native Hoosier, is in a fair way to step into Jack Elder's well-worn shoes next fall at left half, and Roger Beirne from Peddie Prep, Hightstown, N. J., showed the left ends who will return that he is not to be taken lightly. A brace of Badgers are John Tobin, of Janesville, and Fritz Staab, of Madison, who did big things at right half and full-back, respectively. 
Don Hanley, who came over the mountains from Butte, Mont., where men arc-well, we· won'~ say it-will also 
OFFICIAL F 0 0 T B. A L L . R E V I E W -1 9 2 9 
make a strong bid for the plunging job next spring and fall. . A wealth of good ends was found in the searchings of Mills and Jones. · Bierne, already mentioned, probably heads the list, but John Abbatmarco, New York; Bernie Bresson, \Vooster, Ohio; Ed Donnelly, Bloomington, Ill.; Currier Holman, Salix, Iowa; and Francis Donoghue, Auburn, N. Y., brother of Dick and ~ern on the varsity, were all outstanding. · 
At the tackles, the following did some very commend­able work: Chuck Bassett, Stratford, Conn.; Chauncey Brantfort, Milwaukee, \Vis.; Bernie Cousino, Erie, Mich.; Sam Goldstein, Chicago, Ill.; Joe Kyrth, another Madison, \Vis., chap; Michael Leding, South Bend; and Bill Smithers, 
·Yonkers, N. Y. Some mighty fine guard material for next year, rests in Bud Bansbach, Springfield; Ill.; Jim Harris, Belaire·, Ohio; Bill Pierce, Sherman, Texas; Bob Terlaak, Cleveland, Ohio; Harry \Vunsch and Oscar Zoss, brother of Abe Zoss, of the varsity squad, both of South Bend. Frank Buder, Tilden Tech, Chicago, star; Ed Agnew, Loyola, Chicago; and Ed Amyett, who came from down in Memphis, lead in the ball-snappers' derby. Phil Borello, Kansas City; Ben Gellis, New York City; Frank LaBourne, Brooklyn; and Nick Lukats, Gary, Ind., are all, ready ·to dispute their teammate, Nanas' claim to the left half berth, while Dan Barrett, Kalamazoo; R. J. Ford, John Flanagan, Pitiston, Pa.; and Jim Larkin are fighting it out at right half. It is interesting to note the distance some of them travel .to play under Rockne and to take their chance of making good. Many of them know that they could star at a 

BILL JONES 
Freshman Coacb 

smaller school, but they take their chances and come to Notre Dame. An old proverb says, uShoot at the Moon; you won't hit it, but you'll be a lot closer than if you didn't try." \Ve take our hat off to these lads who have aimed so high and wish them luck next spring when the 193 0 varsity starts to take shape. · 
Early Rooting 
\Ve swiped the following bit of reminiscence from Harvey \Voodruff's column, uThe \Vake of the News," which appears daily in the Chicago Tribuue and offer it here for your approval. 
Dear Harvey: Perhaps you remember uway back when" spectacle and pa.geantry didn't have their present position as ubetween the halves" festivity. \Vhen I saw the release of the balloons and pigeons by Notre Dame at Soldiers' field last Saturday, my mind galloped back to the days when I was still a student in the old prep school at Notre Dame and all _of us, preps and collegians alike, made a mad rush under the grandstand as soon as the half ended. 
There an enterprising South Bender sold sa:ucer pies, ham sandwiches, and coffee. The latter was piping hot, served in tin cups: For 15 cents the hungry student had a feast. 
\Vhat was probably the first attemp·t at organized root­ing at Notre Dame took place in 1900 in a game against Beloit. Song parodies were written by upperclassmen and rehearsed at what we now would call a upep rally." One 
of them still sticks in my mind. It was .sung to the pop­ular ragtime ditty of uHello My Baby, Hello. My Honey, Hello My Ragtime Gal/'· an:d ran: 
Hello AlFortiu, hello John Farley, Hello, the whole darued team; Seud tts tbe uews by wire, Beloit is left in tbe mire. If we defeat tbem, we will entreat tbem Not to go bome aml cry; So, CajJtain, maul tbem And we'll j1rocure the rye. 
\Ve did maul them, all right, but lost the state cham­pionship to Indiana. Fortin, then. captain, is now a promi­nent engineer in New York. 
Notre Dame Alumnus. 

Too bad our friend who signs himself uNotre Dame Alumnus" wasn't around the week before the Southern California game to see some REAL pep, although we have very little to say against the enthusiasm of the crowd at the game itself. Really, it wasn't half bad, come to think of it. 
·;·' 

OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1929 
Interhall Football 
«They play on class teams, dormitory teams, corridor teams-any kind of teams as long as they play football." \Vith these characteristic words, Knute Rockne explains how and why more than 800 men play football each fall at Notre Dame. 
\Vith the same words, ..Rock" exposes a system which 

-has not only mystified. the average football fan, but many a fellow-coach as well. The plan is nothing more than an arrangement whereby all of the players on these les~er teams, which compete in an interhall league, have a chance to learn the game and to play it. The following spring they have ample opportunity to show the results of added experience in spring practice. If they make good they are invited to join the varsity; if not, they are «farmed out" to the interhall league for another season. The important thing is that Coach Rockne has an ever-developing source of material on hand. · 
Interhall football at Notre Dame is not a new institu­tion. The storied history of die school, even before 1900, is crowded with incidents that typify the intense rivalry which prevailed in interhall competition. In the earlier years of the league a. Sorin-Corby clash for the hall title was as bitterly fought as a Notre Dame-Southern California battle of today with a national championship at stake. Gradually, however, inter-scholastic football arose to claim the major share of attention at Notre Dame as well as at other universities. 

\Vith the assumption of what Notre Dame men have al­ways considered a sacred duty-that of wea.ring the Gold and Blue in athletic warfare against the representatives of other schools-interhall football was not discontinued. On the other hand, the system· was maintained not only to supplement varsity athletics, but also to give every student of. the university an opportunity to play supervised f<;>otball. 
Instead of being dwarfed into insignificance by the spec­tacular growth which has marked the exp:tnsion of inter­collegiate football, the interhall movement has profited by this progress. In fact, the only pha.se of interhall football that remains the same from year to year is the spirit of the participants. 
The greatest single advance in interhall .football came i~ the years shortly preceding the war when the university initiated its policy of furnishing equipment to the players. This integral function of the system has been gradually developed until today the equipment room for the hall gridders resembles the «plant" of. a large university .. 

OFF-CAMPUS, INTER-HALL CHAMPIONS, 1929. 
Left to Right-Standing: Hall, Beesley, Duba, Corea,, :praves, \Valter, Licks, Crosby, Friel, Stowell, \Valsh~ Taro, Fitzgerald, coach. Kneeling: Golden, Otte, Gould, Noria, Kozak, (Captain), Neubauer, Gunder, Brennan, Nigro. 
OFFICIAL Fo·o T BALL REVIEW-1929 
INTERHALL STANDINGS 
G1·ou.p I 
\Von Lost Tie Pet. 
________ 3

Sophomore 0 1 1.000 
__________3

Morrissey 1 0 .775 
Corby -----------·2 1 .666
Lyons _____________ 1 
2 1 .333 
_______ o

St. Edward's 3 1 .000 
G,.ou.p II 
Won Lost Tie Pet. 
_______3

Off-Campus 0 1 1.000 
____________2

\Valsh 1 1 .666 Freshman _:_ _________2 
1 1 .666 
___________1

Howard 1 2 .500 
_________1

Brownson 2 1 .333 
____________o

Carroll 4 0 .000 
The outcome itself of the grid derby was somewhat out of the ordinary. The adjective "unusual" when applied to the victory of the Off-Campus eleven is meant in praise rather than in disparagement. Year after year. the "Day Dogs" enter the "flag" race with the odds all against them. The hall elevens have a distinct advantage over them in that they not only have a better opportunity to organize but also to practice. The Off-Campus division in the past has turned out good teams, but it remained for the 1929 edi­tion to make history by. winning a pennant for Father Heiser's office. 
\Vhen Crosby's forty-yard victory pass had been snared by Beesely who subsequently deposited it across the Sopho­more goal line in the championship clash, it was "Journey's End" for the Villagers. Their own particular .Victory March had ended in a well-earned championship. At that, their title-gaining efforts were but a shade better than those of the Sophomore Hailers, who a week before had held them . to a tie and necessitated .a play-off. 
The champions played six games. Two of them, one against Brownson and the other against the Sophs, .were scoreless ties, while Carroll was defeated, 12 to 6; Howard, 8 to 0; an~ \Valsh, 7 to 0. The narrow. margin by which 
Off-Campus trod the championship ·path is indicative of 
the type of football which marked the season this year~ The games, with but few exceptions, 'Yerc battles to the last whistle. 
Previous to 1929 the task of supervising the league has been in the hands of one man. With the intention of cen­tralizing the labor of administering over the league, Coach Rockne, in September of this year, created a board of directors composed of the twelve rectors with the Reverend Raymond Murch, C.S.C., as chairman. In addition, Mr. Rockne appointed George Keogan, head basketball coach, to be director of the hall system. As the "Judge Landis" of the circuit, Mr. Kcogan decides all disputes and protests, and assigns the fields and officials for the contests; while Father Murch arranges the schedules. 
In placing added stress upon interhall football this fall, Mr. Rockne assigned the coaches so that each team in the league might profit by the instruction of a man from the varsity squad. These men and their assistants arc mem­bers of the School of Physical Education of the university. By this work with the hall teams, they obtain the practical coaching experience required in their course. 
In the following list of coaches the first named in each case is the varsity representative, and the second is his co-worker: Lyons, Conley and Dilley; Freshman, Brill and Brown; Off-Campus, ·Lyons and Fitzgerald; Sophomore, Koken and Reaume; Howard, Carideo and Janishcski; Mor­rissey, Griffen and Eaton; Brownson, Yarr and Jachym; \Valsh, Savoldi, Flynn and Hahan; St. Edwa.rd's, Kosky, Carr and Harris; Carroll, Kaplan, O'Connell and Artwan; Corby, O'Brien and Maroni; Badin, F. Leahy, \Valsh and O'Connor. 
One of. Mr. Rockne's motives in having a varsity man in contact with each team in the league was continually to be on the lookout for promising material. The product of the hall circuit is a fighting ball player more often than a finished star, for "fight" rather than "finesse~' is the char­acteristic of this lca.gue. This fits in nicely with the plans of the coaching staff, for they find that a player with plenty of spirit will ordinarily be an apt pupil in regard to football technique. 
From start to finish, a different spirit seemed to prevail during the past season. That 1929 was to be no ordinary year in interhall history was indicated early in September when over 400 answered "Rock's" call and were issued equipment. Throughout. the campaign the competition was keener and the teams more evenly matched than ever before; while Mr. Keo"gan and his board of directors estab­lished a new era in efficiency in their management of the league. 
Fi1·st Team Po_sition Seco11d Tem1t 
Crosby (Off-Campus) __________________ LE ___________________ .Citro (St. Edward's) 
Reidy (Morrissey) ----------------:----:---LT----------:----:------Rigney (\Valsh) · 
Melchione (Morrissey)-----------------:-LG ~------------------Bender (Sophomore) 
McCarthy (Sophomore) ________________ .C --------·-------:------:Hall (Off-Campus) 
Kane (Freshman) _____________________.RG'------------------· O'Neil (Howard) \Valsh · (Off-Campus) Capt._____________R T --------,-----------LaRcux (Howard)
Mikes (Sophomore) ____________________RE___________________ E. Jane (\Valsh) Chcvallicr· (Morrissey) -----~-----------·QB'--------:-:-------'-----Conti (Sophomore) Capt.
Kozak (Off-Campus) _____..:. _________.____ LH ___________: _________ Mangan (Lyons) McCarthy (Freshman) -----------------'-RH___________________ N or ton (Morrissey) Captor (Sophomore) ___________________ FB ------------------· Gleason (St. Edward's) 
The Inter-Hall of ·Fame~ 
0 F.F I CIA L FOOTBALL REVIEW-1929
How They Looked Before the Season. Opened

.. Yeah fair, just fair." this time at a coaching school at Northwestern university, 
Thus soliloquized one Mr. Knute Rockne as he looked he had come out and said that the era of pessimism is over the hundred-odd men who were to make up his 1929 over, ..it is time for coaches to take an optimistic attitude varsity at the beginning of practice this fall. and thereby bluff the other fellow into thinking he r~ally 
has something." · True, the rigorous nine game schedule-the hardest in Time has shown that neither of these statements was afootball history with every game on the road-was. noth­bluff-rather, they were just slips made while the Notreing about which one could go into ecstasies. The four Dame wizard was wondering just what he would do withdefeats of last year, honorable and glorious as they were, all the material on hand. Notre Dame has the toughestwould· make one pause and think a moment before pre­team in football history and Mr. Rockne has something todicting a national championship or anything approaching be cheerful about. He knew this, he knew that he had lines­
it for Notre Dame. 

men back who fought tothe point of exhaustion in 1928,But even cagey Mr. Rockne, he who gives out those he knew that in Carideo, Elder, Mullins, and Brill, he had . 
very convincing bear stories during the season, did not the ideal backfield combination of. a thinking, inspiringfool· all of the people all of the time. He had made several quarterback, a fast shifty left halfback, a line-plungingcareless slips of the tongue before he went into his shell of fullback, and a marvelous blocking halfback, all of whom gloom to say that his team must lose one and possibly could pass and -kick on occasion. ·He knew, too, that he three or four games during the season. 

had a wealth of capable reserves. 
For one thing, he had been quoted in the press of the Everyone who didn't know it before, knew it after the nation as saying that .. the 1929 Notre Dame football team first Freshman game. \Yfe wonder just what ..Rock" was will be the toughest in the history of football." And again, thinking of this year when he said; .. Yeah fair, just fair." 
Thank You, Mr. Ecke~sall, .and Tsk! Tsk! Mr~ Corcoran 
In connection with the adjoining story we feel it only equipped with abundant material for the South Benders fitting.to let you know, if you don't already, what some of will play their stiffest schedule in years.'.' the other ccexperts" had to say about Mr. Rockne's latest After yards of lavish praise of Notre Dame's 1929 team, edition before they knew just how good the 1929 road Jimmy Corcoran wound up a very interesting feature story show would be. with the following bum guess: uyes, old Rock has excel­
lent prospects this season. His team, four ways from Sun­
Here's what ccEckie" offered his public after the first 

day, will be stronger than last season. But-he'll take a: Freshman-Varsity game: ccA slashing powerful football licking or two and perhaps three. You can paste that in yourteam will represent Notre Dame this fall ... this year's skimmer, too. For good as his boys seem to be, they're. 
team is going to be one of offensive and defensive power ... 

only human. And no human machine can crash throughRockne will have a strong line and one of the best back­
without a few defeats in the schedule he has wished on his fields in football . .'. It is fortunate for Rockne that he is men for 1929." And there, as they say, you are. 
: • • • • ~ ~ • ' • ._, • I• ' • ., 
7ho SEASON'S. 

EVIEW• 

. 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1929 
Notre Datne 14 
Indiana 0 
Shades of Notre Dame's famous Four Horsemen of 1924 went shimmering across the sod of Indiana's Memorial field when Coach Rockne started his shock troops in the opening game with ..Pat" Page's powerful Crimson and Cream eleven. 
:rrain'ing camp rumor had it that ..Rock" would put a strong team on the field for his first game, but with the memory of four defeats of last year still fresh in their minds, Notre Dame fol­lowers were a bit uneasy when they saw eleven untried reserves trot out on the turf. · 
. \Vould they pe able to hold their own? \Vhat if Indiana. should score on them before the first team could be rushed i~to the fray? \Vhat if the varsity could not overcome this lead? 
B1:1t the unheralded shock troops more than justified ..Rock's" 
H. 0. "PAT" PAGE PAUL BALAY 
Indiana Coach confidence in them by making three yigorous thrusts at the Indiana Captain \Vt were proud lo be hosts of Hoo~ier goal line before they were taken out at the end of the I am glad lo have had the ehatlce 
Notre Damt .mtll i11 our Homt­lo play agaitiSt as fiut a ll'am as comiug celebratiou. The whole first quarter with the ball deep in Indiana. territory. Again, Notre Damt's 1929 ele1·et1. The affair was clean cui and a credit en/ire team played hard, clean 
to two great Hoosier Stale imtilll­..Rock" was right and fans began to think that there really football and I speak. for my team­tions. We lake 011r hats off lo mates as tvell as myself, whm I·
might be something to those reports of championship prospects
Rock. and his nun who played wish Notre Dame success in its 
rl'al football from start to finish. at Notre Dame. future games. Wt wish Rock. and his men all tht brtaks /or the res/ of the seaso11 
Once unleashed, the varsity made short work of supplying the
tmd Indiana men look. /oruiarJ to Playing itl )'OUT ntiV stadium next scoring punch that the reserves had lacked by such a. small mar­
)'l'tlT, • 

gin. The forwards slowly but surely bunted the Crimson mass 
'..;. 

that was Indiana down to the 20-yard line from which If there were any doubts before the Indiana game as to Jack Elder started his first touchdown sprint. prospects at Notre Dame for 1929, they vanished like a In the third quarter, given the ball again, ..The Rabbit" wisp of smoke in :in 80-mile gale when the powerful Blue 
tore through a gaping hole made by Capt. Law and ..Brute" and Gold line held Indiana's best to three first downs-all Twomey, hesitated when he met the secondary, and of them by the air route-and when the ..New Four bounded off to the right to outstrip his pursuers for 60 Horsemen," Carideo, Elder, Mullins, and Brill started their yards and a second score.· ride. 




·i 

O·FFLCJ·A·L · FO·OTB.·ALL REVIEW-1929 57 
Elder Scores. Twice as Notre Dame Wins Opener 
THE LINEUPS 
NOTRE DAME INDIANA 
Colrick • • Hans~n Left End Twom~y Unger 
Left Tackle 
Cannon· Hojinaki Left Guard Moynihan • • • • Ringwalt 
· Center Law (C) • . • • Shanahan Right Guard 
F. Leahy • • • · • • Shields Right Tackle Vezie • Zeiter Right End 
Carideo • • • • • Brubaker Quarter-Back 
Elder  •  •  •  •  •  .  • Ross  
Left Half  
B::-ill  •  •  Balay  
Right. Half  
Mullins  • Todd  
Full-Back  


rrHero of the Da'y" 
Yes. Suh, folks,! The Kentucky speed marchant, the lad who is not supposed to have "football sense," but who CAN run, stepped out twice at Indiana and sprinted his way to glory. in Notre Dame's first victory. 
Besides scoring a pair of touchdowns, the 
. Colonel made some brilliant tackles, some sparkling runs, and threw some deadly passes to demonstrate that besides being a runner, he is a real football player. 
By EDGAR MuNzEL 
Chicago Herald-Examiner 

JACK ELDER 

Bloomington, Ind., Oct. 5.-There was a hustling and a bustling in the hall of the famous Notre Dame grid heroes today-those illustrious Rockne warriors of other days, George Gipp, the Four Horsemen, Christy Flanagan and Johnny Niemiec were preparing to welcome a newcomer. 
Jack Elde1·, down here on the gridiron, another son of Notre Dame, was doing just what they had done before him. He ran the Crimson of Indiana into the sod, 14 to 0. 
Perhaps he. didn't possess to the same degree the all­around greatness of Gipp, the keen insight of the Four Horsemen, the shiftiness of Flanagan, the power of Niemiec. But he had enough of all of that in addition to sheer speed of foot to beat the Pagemen practically single-handed. 
Twice Elder got away for touchdowns .and he dominated the play as long as he was there pumping his :fine legs with a dancer's grace to outstrip the Crimson for repeated gains. 
In the second quart~r the trim-looking Elder, who still holds a. 75-yard dash record, swept around right end for 20 yards to a touchdown. And it wasn't the fleetness· alone on this occasion. ·He cut back to near .center after swerv­ing wide to evade three crimson-shirred lads who had ideas of impeding his· path. 
Elder more than doubled that effort in the third period, running 60 yards to a touchdown. He shot through left tackle as if. propelled ·from a catapult, hesitated just a split second as he faced the secondary defense, and then ~truck out to the right.. He soon had three of. the backs hopelessly outstripped and just one remained, Balay, who decided to inake a desperate lunge as Jack was widening the gap yard by yard. He sprawled a foot behind Elder on the green sod. 
Makes Lo11.g Pass 
In addition to that he occasionally zipped through for 10 and 2 0 yards and also did some passing. It was a pass from Elder to Mullins that placed the ball within scoring distance previous to that first touchdown jaunt in the sec­ond quarter. Elder tossed laterally to Mullins, who streaked down the side line, passed all but .one Indianan, who forced him out at the 25-yard line. 

Outside of Carideo, who _kicked the two extra points from placement, Savoldi, and Mullins, the victory was all Elder. The Hoosiers couldn't stop him because they couldn't even get their hands on him. . 
. Indiana, however, was a losing team from beginning to end. To top off a brilliant offensive that apparently needs only polishing, the Rockne men held the Page men to three downs and each of them was due to forward passing. T ak~ ing cognizance of the fact that Notre Dame gained 351 yards by rushing in spite of a penalty total of 110 yards there obviously is little to say for Indiana. · 
It was a sad homecoming indeed. \With thousands of old grads among the 20,000 who filled most of Memorial Stadium, they had little to exult over than the gay decora.: tions that met the eye at every turn.. 
Just'once did the Pagemen really threaten and that was due to one of two serious fumbles by Carideo. He bobbled 
a. punt that McCracken recovered on Notre Dame's 33­yard line. Balay heaved a pretty pass that Brubaker snatched out of the air with a tremendous lc;ap from be..; tween two Irishers to advance to the IS-yard line. There the advance came to grief. 
But even that wouldn't have meant much if the Ram:.:: biers had eliminated several mistakes by the Ramblers;~ Carideo fumbled on Indiana's 8-yard line after running sixty yards following an intercepted pass. But why go into that when it ended as it did. 
OFFICIAL F.OOTBA·LL REVIEW-1929 


Notre Da1ne 14 Navy 7 
Going into battle with what was heralded as the greatest Navy team in years, without the hand of their stricken coach, Rockne, a fighting Notre Dame team proved itself more than equal to the task at hand in a manner that cannot be praised too hi~hly. 
Rockne had fallen prey to a painful and dangerous congestion · in his right leg, an ill that was to keep him away from several mor.e games during the season, as he had reluctantly consented to staying home when told by his physicians that the trip to Baltimore would disable him for the rest of the season. 
Navy, with all but two regulars back from the team tha.t had held Notre Dame to a seven-point victory in 1928 was confident of victory. \Vhen the Midshipmen rushed the shock troops off their feet to score in the first quarter, their swagger seemed to 
W." A. INGRAM L. L. KOEPKE
be justified.

Navy Coach Navy Captain I do not know thai I was (Vtr But uRock," refusing to abandon his players had talked to As Caplaitl of /h( U. S. Naval 
mort imprnstd with any football Academy football /(am it is a team tha11 I u•as with the Notre every man on the squad before the game a.nd had told him to get Pltawre /or me lo express my ad­Dame leam /hat mtl N.:Jvy ill miraliotl of the Notre Dam( team Baltimore this ;year. That team in and fight as he had never fought before. Then he settled which mel us 011 October 12. I u·as as close lo per/uliotl as a ful that the Notre Dame leam is
back to hear, through his special wire, the results of this bit of
/(am could gd and is a grut o11e of the best I hav( ever played tribute lo the football organi:a­strategism. It must have been a trying moment when the agaimt duri11g my football ex­
liotl a/ Notre Dame. Notre Dame's perimce, Notre Dame, with lht football teams carry onto the fidd Middies swept over for their touchdown-how he must have finest of material a11d splmdid all that is dear lo sporlsmm tmd sPorlsmamhip, should have a more
wished to be there to encoura-ge, direct, and inflame his men.
their efficimcy is mart•elous. tha11 uwally succeu/ul sraso11, 
He breathed more easily a. moment later, though, when Frank Carideo, the master ~uar~er-back, wh,o confidently too~· uRock" back home. It. was just a formality for Carideo ov~r the burden of dtrectmg the teams attack, tossed hts to intercept that Navy pass in the third quarter and for s~etght-of-hand. pass. to Elde~ for a touchdown a.nd later Mart·y Brill to carry the ball to the eight-yard line from tted the score wtth hts place ktck. which March Schwartz and Larry Mullins carried it over From then on there was nothing to it. The varsity tore for victory. into the Middies with relentless fury, battling, striving for uRock" had told them to fight-that was enough. 



The Middies made a gain thro.ugn Notre Dame's line. 
Navy Goes Down Before Rockneless Blue and Gold 
THE LINEUPS NOTRE DAME NAVY Colrick • • • Crane 
Left End 

rrHero of the Day"
Twomey • • • • Bowstrom Left Tackle 

Knocked to his knees by a charging Navy
Cannon · • • • • • • Swan 

lineman, Carideo got off a beautiful pass to
Left Guard 

Elder for Notre Dame's first touchdown.
Moynihan • • • • • Hughes Center 

A minute later, he tied the score with his Law (C) • • •. Koepke (C) 
place kick. Right Guard 

In the third quarter he nabbed a Navy
F. Leahy • • • • • • Bryan Right Tackle 

pass to start the drive that resulted in the Vezie. .... Gyng 
winning score, again kicking the extra point. . Right End 
His excellent judgment in calling plays,
Carideo • • • • • · Kohlhas Quarter-Back 

in the absence of Coach Rockne was a de­Elder • • _. . • • • Spring 
ciding factor in the Notre Dame victory. 
Left Half Brill • • • • • H. W. Bauer Right Half 
Mullins .• • Clifton Full-Back 
FRANK CARIDEO 


By GRANTLAND RICE 
Baltimore, Md., Oct. 12.-You might as well look out, for another South Bend cyclone is under way. It has al­ready struck with terrific force from Indiana into Mary­land. . Today, before 80,000 spectators, another great Rockne team that still needs more polishing," rushed and ripped its way through a savage· Navy defense to win by 14 to 7. 
In the first period, Rockne sent in his shock troops with only one regular in the lineup. These shock troops were not quite good enough to hold back a strong Navy team, so the Navr:led, 7 to 0, when the second period opened. But at this point, Tom Lieb, acting for Rockne, who was· sick at his home,· back in Indiana, sent .in another set of flying horsemen. · 
This new stable includes Carideo, Elder, Brill and Mullins. You will hear a lot more about them before the season is over. They .had far more speed and driving power than even a strong Navy defense could handle. They rushed and crashed and zig-zagged their way· for two touch­downs and they threw away at least two inore by fumbles and heavy penalties. 
F-ztmbles, Pe1talties Costly , 

They went through the line like streaks of sunlight, to flash and fade only after substantial gains. They ran the ends and they threw passes all around the lot, but fumbles and penalties killed at least two chances for other. scores. 
The play that led to Notre Dame's first touchdown was one of the finest ever seen on any field. Brill, Mullins and Elder had rushed and passed the ball something like 50 yards to the Navy's 8-yard line. Here the Navy rallied and charged in with such savage fury that the South Bend march was halted for the moment. 
On the .next pla.y, the fourth down, Carideo, who might be another Stuhldreher, stepped back for a forward pass. As he got into position with his arm up, he was knocked to his knees by a Navy forward, two other Navy forwards half covered his body. In the meantime the fleet Elder was running out on a wide slant toward the Navy goal line. After the manner of another Houdini, Carideo in some way worked himself partially free. He wriggled and twisted over to one side, and, still on one knee, he threw a long slanting pass to Elder, who had crossed the goal , line in the corner of the field. It was one of the greatest plays anyone will look upon for a long, long time. 
Carideo l1ttercepts Pass 

It was Carideo again who paved the way for Notre Dame's second touchdown near the close of the third period. He came in like a streak of wind· to intercept Spring's pass and carried it on to Navy's 32-yard· line. Then Brill, another great back, went to work. He hit tackle for seven yards and then circled Navy's end for 17 more. 
This brought the ball to Navy's 8-yard line as the period ended. As the fourth period started, Schwartz and Mul­lins carried the ball to Navy's one-yard line, and on the next play Mullins dived clean over the hard-scrapping Navy defense for the westerners' second score. Carideo kicked· both goals. Rockne put a fast and powerful aggre­gation on the· field when his first string was in operation, and with a little mor~ polishing it will be hard to stop. 
The Navy team this year.is strong but it c:ould not make headway against the South Bend defense when the regulars cam·e in. The battle this afternoon was a riot of noise, color and action. Close to 80,000 people packed the huge stadium and the .wild frenzy of the midshipmen lasted up to the· final play. Bill Ingram has a t'eam that will be hard to beat from this point on, a. well-coached, hard-fighting, aggressive outfit, but he had no chance today against the bewildering speed of Notre Dame with its delayed passes, shifts and quick starting. attack. 
0 F.F I CIA L FOOTBALL REVIEW-1929 


Notre Datne 19 Wisconsin-0 
\Vith uRock" again bedf~st at home, after coming out to practice and talking to hi~ players from .his-car,. the sons of Notre Dame again rose up to win their first urevenge" game of the year, battling their way to victory over a d_etermine,d \Vis­consin eleven. 
It's a good thing Tom Lieb came back to the .Ro-ckne stables when he did, and no one will tell you this more ·readily than ·Mr. Rockne himself. No better example of the change ~Lieb brought . about in the Notre. Dame camp than the \Visconsin· ga~e ca-n be cited. · 
Last year it was his \Visconsin forwards· that forced the breaks th~t gave the Badgers a 22 to 6 victory at Camp Randall field; this year it was his Blue and Gold linesmen that supplied the 
GLENN THISTLETHWAITE 

holes and interference that were to-send uBig. Joe" Savoldi and JOHN PARKS 
Wisconsin Coach Wisconsin Captain 

; Judgi11g from the ji11r team p/~y uRabbit" Jack Elder on their way to Notre Dame's three 
U11Joubtedly· Notre Dame bas displayed by the Notre Da-me fool­touchdowns. ' otze of jts best football teams i11 ball /~am agaitiSt my boys Oct. 19, )'ears. In our game at Soldiers' I ful that yo11 ha~·e tbc best co­Fi~ld it 1vas evidetzt-that Coach 

ordinatillg szuad i11 your football All Joe needed was a chance to get past the line of scrimmage 
Rock11~ bas attained this year what history. Ptr~aps there have bu11 and that's just what the line gave him at Soldier Feld.. Once all coaches are always strivitzg for, years wbm )'Oil bad mm who stood 

teamwork. This, a jighti11g spirit,out more promine11tly, but a in the open, it was nothing for Joe; a. ten-second man, to show a11d good sportsmambip should 
smootb-u•orking machine is al­
mak~ Notre Dame worthy 11alio11al 

ways sup~rior to a few individual his heels to the swiftest Badger. champions. \Ve, of Wiscomi11, stars. Hence my conclusion that 
wish them lbe best of luck. in 
OtiC

the 1929 Notre Dame /tam is The line did phenomenal. work in the Wisconsin game fro~ their remai11i11g games.
of real championship calibre. 

end to end and from the varsity tq the ~hock troops. Never did 


the Wisconsin backs sustain a drive for more than 'three pickers, and it ·was here th~t Tom Kassis, shock troop first· downs, only once did they get within striking dista1_1ce guard, played one of the best games of his career only to of the Notre Dame goal. This was in the first quarter be carried from the. field with a sprained ankle in the last after Behr had intercepted-a pass, but the shock troops held period. The great defensive work of Ted Twomey and them o~ the three-yard line. Again in the last. quarter, Tim Moynihan was also a notable· feature of this game. Oman started a one-man drive, but it ended well toward 
Thistlethwaite put a great team on the field, but Wis­mid-field. It was in this game that Jack Cannon's fiery consin's best fell far short of the fighting club from Notre play first brought him the attention of the-All-American Dam~ · · · · · · 

Schwartz's 40-yard run lead to the first Notre Dame touchdown· against the Badgers. 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1929 
Savoldi Settles That Affair With the Badgers 
THE LINEUPS NOTRE DAME WISCONSIN Collins Jensen 
Left End 
Twomey Witte Left Tackle Cannon Liethan Left Guard Moynihan Krueger Center Law (C) • • • • Parks ·(C) Right Guard Donoghue • • • • Ketelaar Right Tackle Vezic • • • L. Smith Right End Carideo . . . . . . Behr 
Quarter-Back  
Elder  •  Oman  
Left Half  
Brill  •  •  Bach  
Right Half  
Savoldi  •  Gnabah  
Full-Back  


rrHero of the Day" 
uBig Joe" just wanted to be put under pressure and when Larry Mullins was in­jured before the \X'isconsin game, Savoldi got the chance he was waiting f~r. 
No one who saw his two spectacular touchdown runs, or who saw him time and 
·again drag half the \X'isconsin team on his massive frame for long gains, or who heard the tremendous ovation he got at the end of three gruelling quarters of play will say tha.t he didn't make the most of his opportunity. 
Hats off to uBig Joe"-he's a real Notre Dame man! 
By IRVING vAU~HAN 
Cbicago Tribu11e Staff \Vriter 

JOE SAVOLDI 

Joe Savoldi, a pudgy lad from a place called Three Oaks, Mich.,· probably will become famous as the \X'andering . Italian or some such thing. 
Mr. Joe-wandered around Soldiers' field yesterday like one who came to see all the sights. He saw them, a~d in_ seeing, let 90,000 spectators have a glimpse of a powerful. Notre Dame grid army, 'Yhich marche~ over, around and­through the best resistance that a University of Wisconsin eleven could offer. It wasn't enough by the distance_ of the moon, ·and when the final pistol barked in the haze of· an' Indian summer dusk, Mr.. Joe and his cosmopolitan squad were out in front by 19 to 0. 
The stocky, speedy \X'andering Italian _and the others came to avenge what a Badger team had done to Notre Dame's satellites a year ago. They did it in the rough, driving, relentless nianner you might expect from a Knute Rockne team. No more could be ·asked of them. · 
Sco1'es o1t Loug Ruus 

Savoldi, a sophomore, was~'t alone in his sightseeing, but at least he was the leader. There was a back named Jack Elder who conducted one -goal seeking expedition. There was a large number of other backs who did things. There was an endless string of linesmen. who opened large holes through which the backs could gallop. But the \X'ander­ing Italian from Three Oaks stood out as a bellwether, be­cause h~ not only crossed the Cardinal goal line once, but twice, the first on a forty-yard dash _and the second on a sizzling 71-yard sprint~ 
\X'hat \X'isconsin did against this persistent attack of the Rockne army was nothing.· At the start the Badgers made ·a threat and fumbled when a touchdown· against Notre 
Dame's second string· starting eleven seemed immin:ent. The. break probably was .disheartening. At any rate, the Badgers sagged down. Their line couldn't hold, espe­cially at the tackles. .Their ·backs could make no appreci­ab_le headway.._In. t_he third period they were actually weary. In ·the fourth they pick~d up a bit and threatened~ ~ut t~e threat faded. At best it was only a bid for a con­solation touchdown. 
-Lusby Pu1tts Well 

\X'ith a be_tter line \X'isconsin's b-acks might h~ve gone places arid seen things as did_ the \X'andering I tali an and the dancing Elder. There were times when a youth named Oman, who started and finished for the Badgers, was able to carry on by himself. The energetic _Lusby. was no loafer as a ground gainer or a punter. H. Rebholtz occa:­.·sionally kicked holes in Notre Dame's wall. His brother, : Russell, in-a few spots ran and outkicked the best Notre 
Dame had. But none of this was sustained. The South 
Benders always were ~ble to· stop it after a flurry. This' 
ability to stop things accou~ted for the fact that the vic­
tors had twelve first downs against nine for the Cardinal 
clad. ­
Notre Dame contributed its first bit to the day's damage 
in the middle of. the first quarter. This was when the 
\X'and~ring Italian, who is supposed to be a second stringer, 
shot out of a hole and toured 40 yards to \X'isconsin's goal. 
The next came early in tl~e third quarter, when Elder did 
as Savoldi had done. Elder ripped off 43 yards before he 
quit~ Then a. few minutes later Savoldi exceeded· even 
himself. He raced 71 yards before falling exhausted over . his opponents' goal. 


Notre Datne 7 
~arnegie Tech 0 
.. Twenty-seven to seven"! .. Twenty-seven to seven"! . This is the cry that rang across Ca-rtier practice field the week before Coach Rockne pitted his fighting men against the power­ful Carnegie Tech machine, and when the starting whistle sound­ed, at Pittsburgh, Notre Dame _was in a rare fighting mood. Twenty-seven to seven was the score of the 1928 game when the towering Skibos ground 23 years of cherished tradition into the mud of Cartier field, and the mere mention of these two apparently harmless figures was to inflame to fighting pitch every man on this year's squad. There were other incentives, too. For example, there was ..Rock" helpless in his wheel-chair on the sidelines after leaving a sickbed and making the effort that was to keep him away from
JUDGE WALTER STEFFAN JOHN DRESHAR

Carnegie Tech Coach the next two games. There was also the game of 1926, when 
Carnegie Tech CaptainWe at Carnegie Tech are proud 

the hardy Scots knocked Notre Dame out. of a national cham­The Notre Dame /tam we played
of our relationship with Notre Ibis. year war, without doubt,Dame and u•e are proud that we pionship. 
the best. we mel . all seaso11.
"·ere ablr lo bold Notre Damr to I have never see11 a11y team show 

a 7 to 0 score in our game this · But these were avenged before the greatest crowd that ever such remarkable improvement in 
year. Your 1929 team is a great 11 year's lime as the Notre Dame

tram. I wish to congratulate the turned out for a sports spectacle in Pittsburgh. The great Karcis, 
devm Jid /rom 1928 lo 1929.
national champions and · Coach 

Rockne. who ha·d plunged the 1928 eleven to destruction, was stopped by Allbaugh made 11P of the same 
mm, the line Ibis year was far 

a dauntless line led by the inspired Jack Cannon. The only n1perior lo the 011e las/ season. serious threat Carnegie made all afternoon was in the last quarter when Judge Steffan's club was stopped (by Cannon) 20 yards out. 
The Notre Dame touchdown was a marvel to watch. ture of their greatest friend, Knute K. Rockne, huddled Carideo had taken a punt from McCurdy o~ the 50-yard in his wheel-chair near the Notre Dame bench in excruti­line. Jack Elder, still unstopped by any man's· ball team, ating pain-fighting for them-was reason enough. scrambled to the 17-yard line; Marty Brill crashed. to the 
No greater compliment can be paid to the great Car­eight-yard stripe; then Joe Savoldi took the situation in 
negie team than the tribute the players. themselves made hand. Three times he flung himself bodily at the stub­
after the game: .. Carnegie was the hardest team we've born Plaid line to put the ball on the one-yard stripe. On played this year." · the fourth down, he again dived fearlessly into the air and 
But a team fighting for a national championship, for itssailed to rest in the end· zone for victory and revenge. 
revenge, and above all for its Rockne, could not be But why shouldn't Notre Dame men fight? The pic-stopped. 



' 

Revenge No. 2; This Titne It's Carnegie 
THE LINEUPS NOTRE DAME CARNEGIE 

rrHero of the Day"
Colrick • English Left En~ 

Tearing down the field on practically
Twomey • • •. • Highberger 

every punt for deadly tackles, ripping
Left Tackle Carnegie's line open for Savoldi's· touch­
Cannon Schmidt Left Guard 

down dive, breaking through to throw Moynihan • • • • . • Ducanis 
Karcis for a two-yard loss in the fourth · Center 
quarter to stop Tech's most serious touch­Law {C) • • • Dreshar {C) 
down threat, leading interference like a 
Right Guard 

general on end runs-that was Jack Cannon 
Donoghue • • • • Schnupp 
against the Skibos! 
Right Tackle Conley • · . • • . • L. Flanagan 

It was the tightest defensive game Notre 
Right End 

Dame played all season and it was the work 
Carideo • Eyth 

of scrappy Mr. Jack that made it such.
Quarter-Ba_ck Elder • • Kerr 

Although unsung by sport writers, he 
Left Half 

was in there on every play taking plenty,
Brill • • • • · • T. Flanagan 
but giving plenty in return.
Right Half Mullins • Morbito Full-Back 


By MAx E. HANNUM 
Pit~sburgh Press Football \Vriter 
Irish vengeance was obtained and Notre Dame's glorious football traditions upheld before Pittsburgh's greatest sports crowd at the stadium yesterday. Carnegie Tech's most magnificent fight went for naught, when with one lightning thrust the South Bend marvels wiped out the bitter memories of 1926 and 1928 with a third-quarter touchdown and a 7 to 0 triumph over the Scotch. 
The great bowl never saw such sights a's were on display yesterday. Sixty-five thousand maniacs, with divided emo­tions, agreeing in admiration of the splendid drive and co­ordination of the victors, and the soul-stirring, never-say­die battle of the vanquished. 
Thrilling to the sparkling runs of the elusive Elder, the wild plunging of the jumping Joe Savoldi and keen-:­minded generalship and remarkable· kicking of Carideo, and the wonderful defensive display by Jack Cannon: 
It was a great te:;tm that· Knute Rockne sent onto the field yesterday, a team that was ready to go to the very brink for the man who sat helpless in a wheel chair by the side lines. 
Peerless Notre Dame 

Rock-bound line, impregnable ends, a b~ck:field whose motto was .. ever forward." Keen direction,-ability to give as well as take, a seizing of the one big opportunity. That was Notre Dame yesterday-the peerless team, fit succes­sor to all that have gone before. · 
All ho~or to the lads who could face it without flinch­ing, fight it back until the issue remained in doubt to the very end, and stay on their feet uritil the finish. Elder the winged-foot, the ghost, flitting through a broken :field. until he placed the oval in position of Savoldi's inspired plunging. 
Savoldi a Hero 

Savoldi, who took up the burden of scoring the touch­down, single-handed, dived over a massed defense, with reckless disregard of personal injury, until, one last chance remaining, he· catapulted through the air yards off the ground, and tallied a hard-won touchdown. 
Such wild line bucking. had seldom been seen here, , nor has Carnegie's desperate efforts. to stop the Notre :Qame dervish. As often. as Savoldi left his feet in his onward rush, so did the Plaid linemen rise to meet him. 
Four times he sailed into space. .Three times . he was met head-on, and brought to earth. But each time he wa·s gaining precious inches. On the final attempt the Tartans could not bat him down quickly enough, and over he went. That.was enough to win, for Carideo remained master of the situation the rest of the game. 
Notre Dame was pushing forward again as th~ game ended, having worked their way clear to the Plaid 3 2 at the close. · 
They might have gone over again with another five minutes. · 
As .Elder dived at left tackle for the last play of the game, he was stopped under a pile of red-jersied figures. 
It was Carnegie fighting .to the end. 
Beaten by a better team. 
But defeat with honor. 


Notre Datne 26 Georgia Tech-6 
The Notre Dame football special, rambling through Georgia, with the throttle wide open, bucked into a. stubborn, whirling tornado-a Golden Tornado-hesitated a moment, then rolled on, never ~topping·until it was back in South Bend with another victory chalked up on its side. · 
That, figuratively, is the story of the Georgia Tech game. Last year's national champions, already twice defeated, were in a v'engeful mood when they met Notre Dame and they were striving, like everyone. else, to halt a winning streak that had reached four straight games. Inspired by last year's victory, the Engineers tore through the shock troops and even the varsity, to score in the second quarter. 
But Rockne's men are more inspired by defeats than victodes 
W. HARRELL RUSK

WILLIAM ALEXANDER and· it seemed that every man on the team wanted to help wipe 
Georgia Tech Coach Georgia Tech Captain Th~ Notre Dame team im-out last year's loss with a touchdown. At any rate, ..Rabbit" We wbo ·are members of tbe 1 Georgia Tecb football squad con­
pressed me .as 0 "c of ihe best Elder broke loose less than a minute after the Tech score to tie
n•er had the pleawre of set'i11g sider tbe Notre Dame game as the play. It has PoU"er. in rmlimiled the count, and "Moon" Mullins crashed the goal again in the· greatest oit oitr scbedule and u·e 
quantities. I was particularly im-feel that we were defeated b:t a pressed wilh the rushing line. Can-same period to sew up the game, after Conley had placed the far superior team, n·ery membcr noll and Moynihan pla)·ed super-b 11 • d d f C "d of tubicb played hard, clean fool­
football in our game. Notre Dnmt a JUSt one yar OUt On a 20-yar pass rom an eo. ball. It was cerlaitzly a pleamre lo .gave ils safely man more help on see th~ precision wilh which every punts tban any otber team I cver The Tornado had spent its fury and Frank Carideo and ·March nza11 performed. There is 110 doubt 
satu. Tbe subsliltllts played like lo us ·but tbat you bave the 
ugulars. Tub u·as glad to be able Schwartz-performing for a crowd from Bay St. Louis, Miss., greatest leam i11 the cou11Jry. to score on mcb a bzmcb. hi$ hom~put on steam and added another brace of markers 
in the last· two quarters. Carideo's touchdown run of 75 the sultry weather, had all the zip and fire of a team of war yards was a marvel. He had taken a punt on his 25-yard horses. Although 'Ted Twomey's work was the most line, _his interference formed quickly, and he was off on conspicuous of any, the rest of the new Seven Mules were the longest side-trip of the day. in there-Ed Collins, Jack Cannon, Tim Moynihan, Johnny 
Law, Dick Donoghue, and Tom Conley-batting 'em The blocking on his and on Elder's run over a 53-yard down and rooting 'em out to clear: the track for the New track, no turns, featured the game.-The line, in spite of Four Horsemen. 



Photos on this p2ge by P2cific :tnd Athntic. 

Thomason, of Tech, is picking up eight yards ·around right end. 
Another Defeat Wiped Out By New Horsetnen 
THE. LINEUPS 

rrHero of the Day"
NOTRE DAME GA. TECH Colrick • . . • • • Jones 

Since he has the faculty of always doing 
. Leh End ' 

the right thing at the right time with very
Twomey . • • • • Watkins ·Left Tackle 

little apparent effort, Ted Twomey usually . Cannon • . • . Westbrook 
is not noticeable to the average spectator, Left Guard 
but you can depend on it that he's always Moynihan • • • • • Farmer 
in there, a tower of strength on offense and Center 
defense. Law (C) • • • • • Brooke· Right Guard 

He stopped the ferocious thrusts of Mizell Donoghue • • . • • Holt 
and Thomason and unwound the Golden Right Tackle 
Tornado's funnel ·in a way that could not Conley • Williams 
be overlooked, even by the ball-following
Right·End 

spectator. This son of the Great North is
Carideo Dunlap 

probably the most consistent man on the
Quarter-Back squad and his ruggedness is shown by the
Elder • • Mizell Left Half 

fact that he has never been injured during Brill • • • • • Thomason 
his career at Notre Dame. Right Half No wonder they call him ..The Brute."
Mullins ... Maree Full-Back TED TWOMEY By jiMMY BuRNS 


lutematioual News Service Feature 
Grant Field, Atlanta., Ga., Nov. 2.-Eclipsing even their own previous record for brilliance, Notre Dame rallied here this afternoon to defeat Georgia Tech's Jackets, 26 to 6. It was a great team, that bunch of fighting Irishmen from up South· Bend way. They flashed an offense that was dazzling and on the defense they were concentrated poison. 
Tech's Lead Brief 

For a few brief and fleeting moments the 35,000 fans were treated to the thrill of Tech leading Notre Dame. But it was only a temporary lead.· Those Irishmen gathered themselves together and set grimly to their task. 
Neither team scored in the first quarter, although Notre Dame launched a drive from its own 20-yard line and sus­tained it to the very shadows of Tech's goal. There it was beaten down and broken up by the valiant efforts of the Jackets. 
About the middle of the second quarter Mullins fumbled and Maree recovered for Tech on Notre Dame's 19-yard line. The Jackets wheeled into the midst of an offensive that netted them their· only score. 
Both Teams Offside 

Mizell bucked ·the ball out of bounds and Thomason was held to a yard at center. Then Mizell passed to Jones, lacking a foot ·of a first down. Both teams were offside on· the next play, but Thomasa~ plunged into the thick of the Irish line and when they measured, Tech had its first down on the 9-yard line. 
Thomason and Mizell were. stopped in their line th~usts and Tech again was fo'rced into the air~ This time the Jackets completed a pass on the one-yard line. Dunlap sacrificed· two yards bucking out of bounds. Thomason in two plays' finally forced his way over .. It was Tech 6; . Notre Dame 0. 
Two plays after the kick-off, Notre Dame tied the 
\¥Triter 

score and, with a burst of brilliance that stunned the fans, Brill ran 28 yards to return the kick to his own 40-yard line. Mullins went off right tackle for six yards, finally being stopped by Maree and Mizell. 
Then Elder, the great Notre Dame back, broke off right tackle, squirmed through a field of would-be tacklers and raced 53 yards for a touchdown. 
Cmmo1t Blocks 

Just before the half ended Cannon partially blocked 
Mizell's punt and it was Notre Dame's ball. on Tech's 31­yard line. The Irish found the going rough. Losing a yard on two tries at the line, they trie~ a long pass, but it failed. Then Tech was penalized five yards and the Irish derived enough encouragement from· that to complete a pass on Tech's two-yard line. It went Carideo to Conley. Mullins on his first try 'bucked the ball oyer for a touch­. down and again Carideo failed to make the extra point. But· it didn't matter; Notre Dame ·w.as out in front to 
s·tay. 

Notre Dame scored one touchdown .in ~he third period. and added another in the fourth for good measure. In the third the scoring came when Carideo took a punt on his own 25-yard line and ran 75 yards to score. This time the Irish annexed· the extra.·.Po~nt and. were ahead~ 19 to 6. Carideo kicked for the extra point. 
N.D. Gets Last Score .. 

Early in the fourth quarter· a. l5~ya~d'penalty threw the Jackets back to their own 11-yard line and on four· plays Notre Daine wound up its· scodng. This time· it was Schwartz wlio bucked through: the· line and wiggled· eight yards for ·the touchdown.. _The try· for the extra: point was good and Notre Dame had· its victory margin, 26 to 6. 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1929

Notre Datne 19 Drake. 
They call them Bulldogs, and what could be a more fitting 
name? · Three times ·this little band of Drake. warriors had met Notre 
Dame and three times they had met defeat by comparatively 
large scores. They may have been defeated, but they were never 
licked, for this year they came back stronger than ever and gave 
Rockne's men one of the best battles of the 1929 season . 
. Taking advantage of the shock troops, the Bulldogs, led· by that line-smashing, paralyzing mastiff, Chuck Van Koren, marched 40 yards to a touchdown in the first quarter. Capt. Barnes obliged with the extra point. 
Here the reserves found themselves and with one' of Notre Dame's hitherto unsurig full-backs,-Al Howard, in the van they
OSSIE SOLEM .TACK BARNES 
Drake Coach started to march in the other direction that was featured by Drake captain The Drake bo:ys a11d I bavc tbr Howard's 35-yard dash and climaxed by. his plunge over the Although I had hoped that my
highest regard for the ability and last uason as a member of /be tbe sportsmallship of tbe Notre Bulldog goal. The try for the extra point failed and therein lies Drake team would see a Buf/dog Dame 1929 team. We gave every-1 victory over Notre Dame, I am tbi11g u·e had lo 110 avail, sitter a ta e. satisfied tvith our showi11g agiliml Noire Dame, ;, spite of the fact d' D 1 h ld f h d' d the ·greatest team we ever mrl. 
that the score was clou,· sumed Lea Ing, 7 to 6, ra <:.e e on or t rce te lOUS quarters an Playitlg before the largest crowd . lo har·e the upper .ha11d at all d h b h th N D t Jd ff Then that ever watched a Drake squad,
limes. It is our opitliOII t/JiJt they stoppe t c est t a.t ree otre arne earns cou 0 cr. the Bulldogs gave everytbillg lbey flTe /be greatest football team ill came Notre Dame's side of the question. Here was a team of bad ill all effort lo put Ql'er a Ami-:rica, a111J it is a real pleasure . great ltPset. \f'e are 11ot asbamd to play lbem year after )'tar be-COmparatively little importance threatening in a big way [0 of our failure to accomplisb Ibis
·1:;'::/[:y ~Z:'be;~~ are being de-break the string of five Notre Dame victories over teams that aim-we were simply outclassed. 
-\v~re rated 'way ahead of the Bulldogs. This sort of thing who had been playing his usual rip-snorting full~back c_ouldn't go on ·and ·the players said as much in the huddle game, with a 25-yard touchdown spri~t. 
before the final period started. . . . . . The Bulldogs still are not. whipped and they're straining Accordingly, Jack Elder, on the first play of the last at the leash already for next year's game in l'fotre Dame's quarter, dodged his way 18 yards to the winning. score. new ·stadium, it which time they plan to upset a tradition 
_He was. followed in five minutes by Larry .. Moon" Mullins, before it gets .started. 




Mullins Shakes Bulldogs In Last Quarter 
THE LINEUPS NOTRE DAME DRAKE Collins • • • • • • Briley Left End Twomey Shearer Left Tackle Cannon , Wright 
Left Guard Moynihan • • • Don Carlos Center Law (C) • • • . Groustra · lught Guard · 
Donoghue • . • • . • Faber Right Tackle Vezie . Wensel 
Right End 
Caridco . . .. King Quarter-Back Elder • • • Barnes (C) Left Half Brill • • • • • Nesbitt Right Half Mullins • • • • Van Koten Full Back 

rrHero of the Day" 
Last year when Freddy Collins broke his arm, Coach Rockne gave Larry Mullins his big chance with the varsity· against Drake. His work, you will recall, was phenomenal. 
This year, ..Moon" just carried on from where he had left off last season. His line bucks, his passes, his end runs, his remark­able open field work, and his outstanding defensive play were cli~axed when he whisked himself 23 yards through a broken field to cross the goal standing up for Notre Dame's final touchdown against the Bull­dogs. 
Larry averaged better than seven yards each time he took the ball in this battle. 
By HARRY McNAMARA 
Cbicago Herald-Examhrer Feature ~'(Triter 

LARRY uMOON" MULLINS 
For three periods, a stubborn, desperate little band of Drake university footballers actually outscored the best that the mighty Ramblers of Notre Dame had to offer in the way of shock troopers and regulars, too, yesterday at Soldier Field, but it was not enough. 
The final score was: Notre Dame 19; Drake, 7; but it 
fails to indicate the desperate fury of the Bulldogs' stand· 
during the first three periods of the ball game. Drake _led 
7 to 6 at the end of the third period, and the game which 
Mr. Knute K. Rockne had scheduled perhaps to give his 
Ramblers a ubreak" in a tough schedule, a ..breather" for 
his troops,-held the 50,000 spectators breathless with 
anxiety. 
The regulars, with Larry Mullins, Marty Brill, Jack 
Elder and Frank Carideo operating as the ball carriers, had 
done no better than hold their own against the dogged 
Drake warriors during the third period and things began to 
look a bit alarming for the Notre Dame followers. 
Elde1' sp,.i1tts Ac1'0SS 
Then came the perfect football play, with Elder, who 
had been staggering around previously without going any­
where in particular, sprinting over. the line with what later· 
proved to be the winning touchdown. Notre Dame, once 
in the lead, put the ..crusher" on thereafter and before the 
game ended compiled another touchdown. 
Larry Mullins, the Pasadena Paralyzer, wa'i the author 
of this score, after a s·mash through center had carried him 
into an open field and some beautiful open. field running 
had enabled him to sprint 23 yards over the Drake goal 
line. ·. 
. Mullins, we might add, was a whale of a fullback dur­. ing the three periods he was in operation. In fact, he 

Drake, with the Rambler shock troopers forming the opposition, got a break shortly after the game got under way, ·when Al Howard fumbled and an unidentified Bull­dog clutched and recovered the bounding oval on Notre Dame's 40-yard line. 
To say that Drake took advantage of the break is put­
ting it mildly. uchuck" Van Katen started the ball in the 
direction of Notre Dame's goal line by reeling off 8 yards 
on a delayed buck. He w:as on the Irish 28-ya~d line be­
fore he was hauled down on his next try. 
Bulldogs Take Lead 

Van Katen and King made it first down on the two­yard line on three smacks at the line. Van Katen was stopped dead on his next attempt, but his next try carriea him over the goal line and Captain Jack Barnes place kicked for the extra point without delay to give his teaqt a 7 to 0 lead. · · · 
O'Connor speared Drake's ·kickoff arid ran it back' to his 
own twenty-nine-ya-rd line following the kickoff._ A 
thirty-five-yard dash by Howard put the ball on Drake's 
twenty-five-yard line after O'Connor had added five yards 
around end. Howard, Schwartz and O'Connor alternated 
at lugging the ball until it rested on Drake's three-yard 
line. From this point, Howard thumped off tackle for a 
touchdown. · · 
Just -before the third perio9 ended, Notre Dame acquired . 
th~ ball on Drake's thirty-five-yard line. Mulli~s swung 
into action ·from this point. He_ picked :up five, six and 
seven yards in three hard smacks at the line and the· ball . was on the ·enemy's seventeen-yard li~e when the session ended. · · .. .­\Vhen play was· resumed for th_e_ final period, away. went Elder and away went· the ball game as far as Drake was 


averaged better than 7 yards on every attempt. concerned. 

OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1929 
! 
Getting Ready For The Trojans 

In this season of superlatives-you know, the toughest team playing the hardest · schedule before the largest crowds-it would certainly be an oven:ight of the highest order to omit mention of the greatest "pep week" in Notre Dame hist~ry. 
Surpassing in size and noise made even the great week of "Army game pep" in 1928, the 1929 Southern Cali­fornia game enthusiasm exposition started on Tuesday be­fore the Soldier Field battle, was climaxed on Thursday, and anti-climaxed on the day of the game itself. Jerry_ Parker, aided by the Student Activities council and the Blue Circle, supervised this mammoth week-long cele­bration. 
The first official "Rockne Day" in Notre Dame history wa$ observed on Tuesday with a special Mass in Sacred Heart Church, a torch-light parade, and. individual hall cheering. \Y/ednesday was largely a day of organization with the various halls bringing in ·lumber by the truck­load for Thursday's gigantic fire. In the afternoon it was decided that Sophomore hall's 30-foot pile contained more inflammable material than the equally high Off-Campus heap and both were given silver loving cups symbolical of first and second places, respectively. 
\Y/illing workers fell to immediately and gathered all the wood into one great heap surrounded by railroad ties and telephone poles, soaked the whole with crude oil, and waited for Thursday evening to come. After dinner, on this history-making night, the band went the rounds of the halls and students fell in behind until all 3,000 were on hand with some 5,000 townspeople at the scene of the blaze. A match was touched to the oil-soaked wood and soon ever-mounting tongues of flame were licking the sky. 

As at all well-organized pep meetings, the band played, the crowd sang and cheered, alumni talked, and everyone had a fine time. If you don't believe this, cast a glance on the picture below taken from the speakers' stand. 
. Elaborate plans, some of which were carried out, were laid out for the game itself. Students in two sections of the Soldier Field stands were supplied with many-hued cards and instruction slips telling them what card and color to liold up when a certain number was flashed by the stunt leader. In this way, the two sections were to form a Trojan Horse, a four-leaf clover, various greetings, and some silent cheers. 
In the excitement of the moment, however, (the mo­ment when Tom Conley tied the score with his touch­down) the boys became excited and filled with the desire to throw something aloft. Hats cost money and the cards were free, so up went the pasteboards, sailing about in a maelstrom of riotous color much like giant, tinted snow­flakes.· It was tough for the stunt committee, but the impromptu demonstration really looked, as one young feminine fan exclaimed "very swelL" 
The parading of the band and the ~elease of many col­

·ored balloons and white pigeons from a. gigantic drum also added their bit to the pagentry of the game. It was a grea·t week and its result certainly justified. its being. Those cynics who don't believe in student demonstrations might refer to the score at the top of the page after next and be converted to the right cause. · 

69 

· SOP~IOMORI ~I ALL'S \JOODPI L C 
. · l53 P~lZ E. 
. . TUE ])IG PILE •.. ·. . .·.··.·. ·• TU[ :50NFIQE ·...· ..· 

'. ' ) 1 
.. . ' " . :. -~ 

SOUTl-ILRN CALIFOk2NIA P[P WEE~ 



t,. ._______::~ 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1929
Notre Datne 13 Southern California 12 
Perhaps Notre Dame and Southern California are not the two best football teams in the world, but to say that they were on the afternoon of November 16 is to digress very little, if any, from the absolute truth. 
Every move they made was flawless, exact. They incorpor­ated into one thrilling hour everything that stands for football. They played hard, clean football all the way through, never ask­ing any quarter, never complaining on breaks of the game, never disputing a decision-just fighting for all they were worth and loving· it. 
Each score was planned, although, as we shall point out, a break helped the Trojans to their first one. Saunder's 92-yard run was not an accident; in fact, Notre Dame had developed a 
HOWARD JONES NATEBARRAGAR 
U. S. C. Coach defense for just such an occurrence, but was blocked out by U.S. C. Captain In my opinion the Notre Dame charging Trojans. Tom Conley's 54-yard touchdown play I ca11 say honestly that the 
ltam that Soulhtm .California Southem Califomia team made 
pla}'ed on Nov. 16 was a great was worked for smaller yardage· time and again, and Savoldi's n·ery possible mJeavor lo win, football team. Noire Dame Je­/rom Notre Dame this year, but
score was the result of straight footbalL .
urvtd mort than the one point that we wmt dowtz ;, defeat be­margin of victory lht}' obtaitttd. fore the greatest eleven on our 
·The otllstanJing features which The pass from Duffield to Aspit for the game's first score schedule. No o11e i11 our entire impressed me itt regard to tlu learn persOIIIICI bemoa11ed the fact that
may have worked anyhow, but it came out after the game that
were a consistent fighting attitude we were bealetz by otzly o11e Poi11t; and sple11did blocki11g both on ..Bucky" O'Connor, who was ~upposed to. be covering Aspit, rather, u•e all /eli fortunate that 
runni11g plays and opm field work. the score .tt.1as not larger. My team­The Notre Dame team is a credit had just received a beautiful shiner around his right eye and males a11d I join in wishi11g Notre to its coach tmd 1u do not con­Dame co11linued success 011 the 
Jider·it a disgrace to /rave lost. couldn't see a thing when the play occurred. He didn't take football field. 




tiipe out because he was afraid that ..Rock" would jerk · with them in spite of. his doctor's forebodings. The .. doc" him. It must have been hard .to lose such a fiercely fought had told him that if he would stay in bed for three weeks game by the slim margin of OI?-e point, but the men from he would be up walking again by Christmas. ..Rock" the West took their defeat like real Trojans. answered to this effect: ..The season's over in three weeks 
It wa~ spirit like his that won for Notre Dame and that and there's nothing worth walking to then. I wouldn't makes Notre Dame the most popular team in the country miss this game if I had to stay in bed all winter." today. Her men never give up. As at Carnegie Tech, The friendly feeling between these two powerful grid­they were fighting to keep their record clean, to avenge iron opponents was strengthened rather than weakened by· last year's defeat, and for Coach Rockne, who was again their 1929 meeting.. 

7.1

Rockets Beat U.S. C. To Clear Last Year's Slate 
THE LINEUPS NOTRE DAME u.s. c. Colrick • Tappaan Left End Twomey Anthony Left Tackle Cannon • • • • • Galloway Left Guard Moynihan • • . • • • Dye Center Law {C) • • Barragar {C) Right Guard Donoghue . • • • Hall Right Tackle Conley • Arbelbide Right End Carideo . . • . • • Saunders 
Quarter-Back  
Elder  • Aspit  
Left Half  
Brill  Pinkert  
Right Half  
Mullins  Musick  
Full-Back  



rrHero of the Day" 
Against Georgia Tech, Tom had caught the only Notre Dame pass that worked and had put the ball on the one-yard line. He resolved then and there that he would carry it over at the next chance. And how he did! 
\X'ith Notre Dame trailing 'by six points in the Trojan battle in the second period, he snatched a heautiful 35-yard pass from Elder and ran twenty yards to. tie the score and put a new vigor into his team that was to result in a glorious victory. 
Another time, he .put the ball iri scoring position with a difficult catch, but the chance was lost on a fumble. He played real defensive ball, too, but his score was the thing. 

TOM CONLEY 

By ARCH \X'ARD 
Cbicago Tribune Staff '¥Triter 


University of Southern California's ·stalwart band of Here Comes the Thrille1· football players traveled 2,3 00 miles to be humbled yester­Before Notre Dame rooters had time to sit back and day by the toe of a lad wh6 cavorts in the Notre Dame enjoy their 13 to 6 lead, came the most thrilling play of back field. • the game. Russell. Saunders, Southern California quarter-· 
back, caug~t the kickoff on his eight-yard line and in lessHis name is Fr~nk Carideo, a cool, clever athlete whose time than it ta.kes to tell about it he raced through the successful kick after his team's second touchdown enabled Notr:e Dame team for a touchdown. Few players ever Notre Dame to win, 13 to 12, in one of the finest football· 
have done that against a Rockne coached eleven. wars any crowd ever witnessed. There were 120,000 The stands were hushed when James Musick, the Trojan

banked. around the gridiron at Soldiers' Field to watch full-back_ poised for the kick that was· either to tie thehim do it. 
score or send his mates back to California a heaten team~ The effort _was .wide by inches.
Fu1·ious Li1te Play . ! 
It was a battle of ftirious line play and brilliant forward 
Notre Dame Outplay; T1·oja1ts

passing. The deadly tackling and charging defense C?f both Perhaps it was only justice that Musick missed the kick. 
teams broke up play' ~fter play. It was man to ni.an, body Notre· Dame had an edge in all-:-aroun'd ·play. It missed to body, fought with unrelenting fierceness, but. minus any 
a touchdown in the first quarter when Brill fumbled on .the show of ill feeling. . . · . · Trojans' one-yard line. · It.'missed_ ano~her touchdown in the second period when an ineligible man caught aforward
The Trojans scored· their .first. touchdown almost before . pass behind the California goal. · · · 

the huge crowd had been seated. A for\vard pass, Duffield to· Aspit, caught the Notre Dame· secondary napping and The Notre Dame line refused to be ·fooled by the we~~­Aspit raced unmolested to the goal. The Irish also struck . erners' puzzling·shift· and fancy maneuvers.· Ends were through' the air for· their first score. It came in the second · tricked by laterals an.d sweeps ~~· rare intervals, but the period on a 54-yard pass from· Elder into the arms of backs, particularly ;Brill, came up like express· trains to . Conley, who traveled unopposed to the goal. smack the ball ·carrier· all over the· sward. . There was ·a 
demoh Notr~· Dame gu~rd. named Ja<;k Cannon who never Notre Dame· scored its second touchdown on straight· was fooled. He played; th~ whole scrimmage. line. There football. AIthough' facing· a ·heavier· line, the Irish surged . 
was no getting by him. n~r through him. ' 
mass upon mass~ thundering forth a might that few of their followers belieyed possible. · Savoldi was the_ grea_t . Th~re was great honor. ~U:t' n~ disgrace attached to yes­man in the spectacular march. He merited the honor of terday's struggle. Notre Dame won because it had a little 
making the touchdown. 
more stuff. 
, I 
: i 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1929

Notre Da1ne 26 
6
Northwestern 

It was just unfortunate that Northwestern had to meet the Notre Dame victory special when it did. The \Vildcats might have had a chance two or. three weeks before, when they were at their peak, but with the Rockets already sensing .the possi­bility of an undefeated season and a nationat c_ha_mpionship, Dick Hanley's men 9r .anybody else's. in~n were just something to beat 
for Notre Dame. · · · · ·· · 
Besides the. incentives .already mcntion~d, Notre ·Dame had 
.another motive. for victory in their Evanston game. The day before the battle, Coach Rockne sent for all those .who were making the trip, gathered them around his bed and told them: "Boys; I won't be with you tomorrow; the doctor .says I can't go. I want to tell you just one thing, though, before you 
DICK HANLEY leave: if you win tomorrow, you will have· the .distinction of HENRY ANDERSON 
Northwestern CaptainNorthestern Coach 

scoring my hundred~h victory since I started coaching here in 
The 1929 Notre Dame tram was tbe tougbrst that I bat•e ever met The Notie Dame tean1 011 Nov. 

ZJ agaimt Northu·estt'rn u•as Ollt' 1917. I don't especially care for myself, but if you ·want this 
duri11g my playi11g days at Nortb­I ba1•e n·l'r 1dtnrsud i11 actio11. honor just go out there tomorrow and fight, fight, fight!" wrsterll: It tued a wraith of power E1·rry ma11 a suprrb blockrr, every 
of thr grtatl'st aggregatio11s that to the brst possible advantage in 

man a u·bale 011 defr11u, tvith our ~amt and tbt Northwestern strong, capable reUTI't'S, and witb 
\Vhcn his 1925 team was trailing, 10 to 0 at the half of their 
inr11 fttl /bat it deserves a natio11al the mtirt' group functiolling as a Northwestern game, he had said, "\Veil, I sec you're going to' championship. Our bats are rrr­
laillly off to the Notre Dame crew was, that day at lrast, the best I have the distinction of bein'g the Notre Dame. team to quit on and to Coach Rork11e. ha1•e t'l'eT Stell. 
marbillt', the Notre Dame team 

me," and walked out ·of the· dre5sing room. History shows that that bunchcame back and scored 13 points and W<?n a glorious 
victory. just to "show Rock." All of which goes to prove count of Illinois and Ohio State and were fighting to re­again what a student of psychology this man Rockne ·is.. gain their lost laurels. They played a back-to-the-wall game, throwing long, despera-te passes at all' times and tak­
What he says in ten words means more than what most ing the most daring of chances in an effort to avert the
other coaches say during a season. 

disaster that was theirs. They were a grim bunch, but 
Northwestern had one of _its greatest teams in his~ory. when Rockne's men go out to win, whether it be the this year, but "Rock's" inspiration was too· much for -them. hundredth victory or just another ball game, nothing J'hcy had lost to Indiana the week before, after ·taking the human can stop them. 




OFFICIAL Fo·o T BALL REVIEW 1 9 2 9 
73 



Wildc.at Victory IS Ro·ckne's Hundredth 
THE LINEUPS NOTRE DAME N. W. 

rrHero of the Day" 
Collins • • Baker Left End 

"He is the spark-plug, the leader, the zip Twomey Riley 
of the forward wall. Our whole defense is Left Tackle 
built around his leadership." Cannon • • • Anderson (C) Left Guard 

Thus spoke Coach Rockne of "Big Tim" Moynihan • Erickson 
Moynihan, varsity center who rose to the 
Center 

~eights in the North,vestern game before he Law (C) • • Woodworth 
was removed with a broken bone in his
Right Guard 

right ankle. Tim was a hero every week
F. Leahy • • • • • Marvil 

and perhaps it is wrong to single him out
Right Tackle. Conley ~onya 

for his showing in any one game, but against Right End 
the \X'ildcats he was supreme. · Carideo .• Hanley Quarter-Back 

His accurate passing, his powerful offen­. Elder Moore 
sive drive, and especially his daring tack­Left Half 
ling and smart pass defense work made him . Brill Calderwood 
the outstanding Notre Dame man against Right Half 
Northwestern. Mullins Bergherm Full-Back 

uBIG TIM" MOYNIHAN By CHARLES \X'. DuNKLEY 
Associated Press Sports Editor 
Dyche Stadium, "Evanston, Ill., Nov. 23.-Notre Dame's forty-rard run that brought him to Northwestern's forty­
thirty-four men, eleven of them playing at a time, smashed yard lme. Then, behind a solid, oblique wall of interfer­Northwestern's well-clawed \X'ildcats 26 to 6 before ence, Joe Savoldi galloped another forty yards for a touch­55,00_0 fro'Zen spectators today to wi~ their eighth con­down. Carideo added a. point with a place kick. secutive game of the season and to send them bounding 
A few seconds a.fter this scoring venture, Schwartz along in the direction of a national championship. · passed to Brill for twenty-five yards, placing the ball ~n The game was so lop-sided that it hardly was a contest. 
Northwe~tern's ten-yard line. Then Schwartz skippedA stone-wall Notre Dame line, supported by three young around nght end for another touchdown with Carideo backfield men-Jumping Joe Savoldi, Frank Carideo and adding the extra point. Carideo then decided to do· some 

Marchmont Schwartz-simply ran the Northwestern 
im~ortant s~oring hi~self and speared a Northwestern passplayers ragged.· 
whtle stan?u~g on hts own fifteen-yard line and galloped Pzi1·ple Sco1·es o1z Blu1zde1· away for etghty-five yards and Notre Dame's third This trio scored three touchdowns in the second period touchdown. His kick for an extra point failed, however.· and another in the third~ tucking the game safely away 
Notre Dame scored its .final touchdown in the third
for the Rockneless Ramblers, while Northwestern managed period when Savoldi broke aw~y on a thirty-two-yard runto score its single touchdown on a blunder in the fourth, that brought him to Northwestern's seven-yard line. Awhen the third-string Notre Dame team was in there try­pass. put the ball on. the one-yard line and then Jumpinging to emulate the achievement of the regulars. 
Joe JUmped over the center for Notre Dame's fourth touch­T~e victory was cos.tly to the undefeated, Notre Dame down. Carideo's kick was too low..
eleven because Tim Moynihan, the big 190-pound center, received a broken .right leg after the scoring orgy in the 
Sco1·e o1z Bad Pass

second period and had to be carried off the field. The in­\X'hen practically all of Notre Dame's regulars had beenjury ends his football career at Notre Dame, as next week's removed from the lineup, Northwestern's \X'ildcats still.
contest with the Army was to have been his last. 
were clawing and scratching: In: desperation they resortedNotre Dame opened up with its shock troops, keeping· tO a flock of fqrward passes, but were unable to connect
the regulars, with the exception of Schwartz and Jumping :'
with one that would produce a touchdown. They managedJoe Savoldi, on the side-l~nes, and plowed through the to score, however, when a pass from Yarr, one of the Notre\X'ildcats for five first downs before the game hardly was Dame centers, ·hit one of Notre Dame's numerous backunder way. There was not a scoring threat, however, un­field players and bounded across the goal line. . Marvil, til the second period opened, when Schwartz, Savoldi and Northwestern tackle,-pounced on the oval for. a touchdown,Carideo got into action behind the first-string Notre Dame but Bergherm's effort for the extra point failed. · -. : .
line and thrilled the capacity crowd with some sensational 
galloping.  Tom Lieb, an assistant coach, handled the Notre ·Da·me  
Sclnvartz Starts D1·ive  eleven  while -Knute  Rockne,  the  master  mind  of. the  
Schwartz started  the  ball  rolling when  he  tore  off  a.  Ramblers, was ill in bed at his home in South Bend.  

I! 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REV1EW__;_1929
7 Artny 
Notre Datne 
0 

·The 1929 renewal of the Army-Notre Dame game, which has became THE classic of football, saw a glorious climax to a. glori­ous Notre Dame season. 
The Cadets rose far above anything they had done previously and battled to the end like true soldiers in a vain attempt to overcome the lone score of the da.y made on Jack Elder's brilli­ant run in the second quarter. 
Both lines were i~ there fighting as they had never battled before, Army with its Perry and Messinger and Notre Dame with its Cannon and Twomey standing out head and shoulders above .the two struggling masses. Army was great that day. Chris Cagle, Army's valiant captain, outdid even himself with his de­termined offensive and defensive tactics in this last Notre Dame 
"BIFF" JONES,. "CHRIS" CAGLE 
Army Coach game of his remarkable career. Army Captain W'hil~ probably lacking in the The Army-Notre Dame game ji11rssr of ·the 1924. tram, Notrr The power and alertness of Notre Dame's great club, how­Ibis year was o11e of the greatest I 


Dame's rlrr·e11 this J~ar was otze of th~ grralnl I have ev~r su11. The litu slopped rruy Artll)' drir·e a11d the Pass Jrfmse was r.w-rllml. I am sorry I did not srr them 1111der bell~r p/ayi11g co11ditiom. No team cat: match Notre Dame's 1929 record. 

,, 
ever, was too much for the best that \'{!est Point could offer. Every fresh march through the line or around the ends was stopped by Tom Lieb's powerful forwards, and every Army pass was ~ither incomplete or intercepted. Some said Elder's run was a !break of the game, but they must remember that three other 
of Cagle's desperate tosses were Dame backs. 
John Colrick, Ted Twomey, Jack Cannon, Joe Nash, Capt. Johnny Law, and Jack Elder, playing their last game for the Blue and Gold, .performed, if possible, better than in any other battle during the rigorous season. Frank Carideo's excellent judgment in playing safe after scoring, Marty Brill's great blocking and defensive work, Larry Mullins' determined plunging, and the work of Frank Leahy, Dick Donoghue, Tom Conley, Eddie Collins, and Al ·Culver in the line was close to perfection. 


The shock troop backs, Al Gebert, March Schwartz, Joe 
·I i 
j :! 
I::'·
il:!: 
I .I 
i'J' 
11:1 
' u~~ 
1·;1: 
'I'll' 
Id 
II
'i\ 
:!I
ii !l: 
·l!: 
jl.
{ 
I! 
i: I'/; 
II.·H 
r li: ~J~ .. 
··: '! 
intercepted by vigilant Notre 
have ever had the pleawre to take part in duri11g my college career.: I am tba11kful that I had the op­portunity to play against mm who could exemte their assignme11ls so well 011 that fro::m field a11J glad that we wert a real barrier be fore the natio11al champioiiS, for il may be years before a11other tram has such a mccessful seaso11. 

Savoldi, arid Bucky O'Connor, who made four first downs in the first quarter also share in the great victory. 
Notre Dame's claim to a national title, made by the press· and fans, rather than by the team itself, certainly seems justified after the last great ride of the New Four Horse­men. \XThat other team in the country could play nine major games, six of them without· their coach, a~d not crack? Notre Dame couldn't have without the excellent work of ..Rock's" three former pupils, Tom Lieb, Jack Chevigny, and Ike .Voedisch. 

l\ 
.~! 
'i
! ; 
; I 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL RJ:VIEW-1929 
Elder's Dash Brings Win Over Ar1ny and a Cha1npionship 
THE LINEUPS NOTRE DAME ARMY 

rrHero of the DaJ'" 
Colrick .• . . . Carlmark Left End 

\'Ve confess we had not intended to usc 
Twomey • • • • Price 

the same man twice during the season in our
Left Tackle 

selection of outstanding players in games,
Cannon Humbert 

but if ever a man was a hero, ..Rabbit"
Left Guard Nash • Miller 
Elder was against Army. Center 

In one dramatic stroke, Jack cut off
Law (C) • • • • Hillsinger · Right Guard 

· Army's greatest threat of the day, tore out Donoghue • • • . • Perry 
of the grasp of a half-dozen snatching Right Tackle 
Cadets, and sped on as only he can speed to Conley ... Messinger 
Army's goal some hundred yards away. Right End 
Carideo . • • • • • Carver 

Thus he closed the season as he had Quarter-Back 
opened it against Indiana and as he had Elder • • Cagle, (C) 
gone through it in every game-a real Notre Left Half 
Dame man and a hero to every follower of Brill • • •· • • Hutchinson 
Rockne teams.
Right Half Mullins Murrell Full-Back 

By FRANK GETTY 
Uuited Press Sports Editor 



Yankee Stadium, New York, Nov. 30.-A briiliant dash along the field by Jack Elder, fleet Notre Dame half, who intercepted a forward pass on his goal line and ran for a touchdown, gave the Irish a. 7 to 0 victory over Army today, and crowned the South Bend eleven, unbeaten and untied, as the grca~cst of the 1929 season. 
Snatching the ball from the hands of a waiting Army end, Elder churned the frozen gridiron with flying cleats, sprin tin'g past the baffled Cadets 1 0 0 yards to cross the goal line. Frank Caridco, Notre Dame's All-American quarter-back, booted a placement goal for the extra point. 
Aside from this one amazing play which swept the Irish to victory the two teams fought each other to a standstill before 85,000 spectators in Yankee stadium this bitterly cold afternoon. 
. Red Cagle Stm·s 

Captain Christian (Red) Cagle, was the outstanding star of the game offensively and defensively, but even he could not get free of an alert Irish secondary defense. 
Jack Cannon, Notre Dame's great guard, stamped him­self as a certain All-American choice by his great play on both defensive and offensive. Playing without a headgear, he was in more than half of the plays in the game. 
The break of the game came in the middle of the second· quarter. Cagle and Johnny Murrell had ripped up the Notre Dame .line and carried the ball to the Irish 19-yard line at the start of the period, but there the stubborn South Bend defense proved impregnable and the Cadets lost the ball on downs.. After three tries at the \'Vest Point line had been· stopp~d without gains, Carideo dropped back to punt. 
George \'Vashington Perry, Army's 207-pound right tackle, broke through the line and pushed Jack Elder into Carideo just as the Notre Dame quarter-back got his kick away. The ball bounded crazily over the frozen turf and went to the Army on the Irish 13-yard line. 

. Sc1·eam of Delight 

Cagle tried the line and then Murrell, but only two yards were gained. Then. the Army captain dropped back to the Irish 3 0-yard line and flung a long pass tg Carlmark, who was waiting on the Notre Dame goal line. There was a scream of delight from the Army side of the field as it seemed that a touchdown would follow. 
One did,-but it was not the Army which scored it. Cut­ting over in front of Ca.rlmark, Jack Elder leaped high into the air as though to knock down the pass, but landed on his ·feet with the ball in his arms. Side-stepping three Cadets who flung themselves at him, Elder cut over. to the west side lines which he reached at his 20-yard line. There were many Army men, dashing toward him by this time and there was no hint of what was to follow. 
\'Vith one eye carefully cocked on the white chalk mark 
-beyond which he might not step, Elder opened up with ·a burst of speed similar to those which carried· him to inter.:. collegiate sprint honors on the cinder path. He 4as cov­ered 100 yards in better than ten seconds many times, but it never meant as much to Notre Dame as his· 100-yard dash did today. Now and then Elder had to slow up and side-step to let a Cadet tackler ·past him, but when he re1clied mid-field he was free of the packand had Gaptain Johnny Law running beside him for protection. He crossed the Army goal line standing up. After Carideo had kicked the ·goal for the extra point there was never a semblance of . a score by either side. 
T 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1929
76 

All-Opponent Stars 







NESBITT-Drakc SAUNDERS-U.S.C. BERGHERM-Northwcstcrn CAGLE-Army 
Right Half Quarte1·-Back Full-Back Left Half 





DRESHAR-Carncgic DON CARLOS~Drakc PARKS-Wisconsin 
Right Guard Ce11ter Left Guard 


MESSINGER-Army PERRY-Army HIGHBERGER-Carncgic T APPAAN__.:._U.S.C. 
Right E11d Rigbt Tackle· Left Tackle Left E11d· 
'l 
d
.lj 
!
:; 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL R·E VIEW___:_ 1 9 2 9 
77 


The Review's AII~Opponent Teatn·­
Player Co_llege Position 
Francis Tappaan_______________ Southern California____________ Left End John Highberger_______________Carnegie Tech_________________Left Taclde John Parks--------------------Wisconsin-----------~---------Left Guard 
Waldo Don Carlos______________Drake________________________Center 
John Dreshar__________________Carnegie Tech_~ _______________Right Guard George Perry__________________Army__________________________Right Tackle Edwin Messinger_______________Army_...;.____ --------------_____Right End . Russell Saunders _______________SouthernCalifornia_____________Quarter-Back . Christian K. Cagle______________Army________________________Left Half-Back and Captain Richard Nesbitt __ __:_____________Drake________________________Right Half-Back Russell Bergherm___________:____Northwestern _________________.Full-Back 
Considering the class of opposition the team met this fall, this mythical eleven, picked from Notre Dame's nine foes, might well be called an All-American one. It is not hard to select eleven men from the Indiana, Navy, \X'isconsin, Carnegie Tech, Georgia Tech, Drake, Southern California, N orthwestcrn, and Army teams that will stack up with almost any All-American outfit in the country, but, of course, there are objections to putting the na­tional rather than "opponent" label on our selections. 
Notre Dame did not play everyone in the country and there are players with other unbeaten teams, like Sleight of Purdue, Donchess of Pittsburgh, and Ackerman of St. Mary's, who are almost the unanimous choice of the ex-. perts for national honors. Then, .too, Notre Dame did not play itself and we arc forced to leave off men like Carideo and Cannon who really belong with the All-American stars. 
But, as we· said, we think we. have a team here that will compare favorably with most of the "all" teams and that could give good account of itself in a-game with any of them. In picking our All-Opponent team, we were guided not only by our own observations, but by the suggestions of the Notre Dame players themselves and of Notre Dame scouts who saw these foes in action practically every week. 
The outstanding work of Capt. Chris Cagle, of Army, in all games this year, and especially in the llliriois, Yale, and Army games, which Army lost, stamps him as tbe out­standing back of the country. A_s leader of the Cadets he combined all that is great in football: a keen insight on the garrie, ability to perform every function of the half-back, and especially a spirit of. pcrsevercnce against th~ most disheartening breaks of the game. He always-carried· on and was never discouraged. \X'e arc honored to name him captain of our star opponent team. 
His mates, George Perry at right tackle, and Edwin Messinger at right end, were the only two among our opponents to make any consistent hea~way against the powerful left side of the Notre Dame line made up of Cannon, Twomey, and Colrick or Collins. It was Perry that pushed Elder into Carideo's kick in the game this Fall to bring about Ariny's greatest touchdown threat of the day. He and Messinger st<?_ppcd every attempt' to pierce the right side of the Army line and together 'they make an ideal combination. One without the other would not be as effective as they were· during the season just passed. 
Russell Saunders, second probably only to our own Frank Carideo as a field general, gets the call at quarter­back. His all-around, heady and consistent play during the season makes him real All-American timber. His greatest feat was his 95-yard return of a kickoff against Notre Dame that almost put Southern California in a tie with Rockne's men. · Francis Tappaan, his teammate ,at left end, is a wing­man of almost unanimous All-American choice. \X'hen we asked the Notre Dame tackles, ends, and half-backs who the greatest end they met during the season was, their re­ply was always instantanco_us and decisive, "Tappaan." The New Four Horsemen had more trouble taking him out of their sweeping end runs than any other flankman in the country. 
Dick Nesbitt, of. Drake, finished his career with the Bulldogs this season as one of the best right half-backs in the country. Playin·g without a .. headgear at all times, he won the respect of the Notre Dame team and those who saw him play on the merits of· his ·all-around ability and real Bulldog spirit. His passing was a constant threat, his excellent punts, which avcra.ged over 50 yards, and his hard, clever running, which brought him an average of nearly four yards, stamp him as a great ·player, one worthy of the. All-American honors he would get if playing with a more prominent club. . 
Another Drake man, \X'aldo Don Carlos, although not heard of much in All-American circles, was the sparkplug of a ·fighting Drake line that held Notre Dame's best at bay for three hard quarters and that won another Missouri Valley Conference title. Of him, Tim· Moynihan, Notre Dame's center who met some of the best pivot men in the country says,. ((Don Carlos is the best center I· played against all year." An. accurate passer, he was an aggressive defensive man and was ·always -down on· punts.· · 
From Carnegie Tech's' stone wall line we pick two of the Gibralter rocks who gave Notre Dame such resistance at Pittsburgh. , They are the Skibos' fiery leader .and right guard, John Dreshar, and left tackle John Highberger. In the Notre .Dame game they were constantly causing trouble both on offense and defense and in Tech's other contests_ they were superb· in all departm.ents of the game. 
A full-back's job is to pick up small· yardage when 
needed, to block, and to back up the line on defense. In 
Russell Bergherm, No~thwestern's great plunger, all of 
(Continued on page 94) 


The New Four'Horsetnen ofNotre Datne 
By PAUL G. SuLLIVAN 

Carideo Brill 
The Celts of Soutb Bend bave blared out of tbe ''(!est, 'Mid tbe diu of tbe crowd and .tbe clamorous rattle Of conflict tbat roars tbrougb tbeir nation-1vide quest 
Of tbe crown to be gaiued in victorious battle . Aud, by leading by rigbt of speed, power, and skill, Streak Elder, Carideo, Mullins, and Brill. 
Grim 011 the sideli11e 1vitb all-seeing eye Sits tbe ge1iius directiug tbe fray bis team wages­Tbe spirit incamate of 11ever-say-die, 
Notre Dame's own U1ljJaralleled rrRocl~" of tbe Ages:__ Secure in tbe faitb tbat bis way and bis will Ride with Elder, Carideo, Mullins, ami Brill. 
Run. tac!des, jJierce center, s!drt ends, burl and jJass I Uuleasb every tricl~ known to tactical scieuce I Gaps -ripped by a line close to peerless in class And tearing tbe barder for bostile defiance, 'Vbile all tbrougb tbe tbick of !be moil aud tbe mill .Rage Elder, Carideo,' Mullins, and Brill. 
Mullins Elder 

It's strike 'till tbe strongest of foemen must yield I Hold bigh tbe brigbt glories of spotless traditiou/ Is it gbost of rrFour Horsemen" tbat rauges tbe field, · Advancing. the pigskin to scoring position? But no/ Tbose mad sbadows tbat mass for the kill Are Elder, Carideo, Mullins, and Brill. 
Long and steep is tbe jJathway to tititlar fame, Uutrod, save by bosts ueither tied uor defeated;~ Thrice-rougb is tbe road tbat awaits Notre Dame, 
Each rival primed luenly to leave ber unseated; But none will disturb her triumphal dash 'till He baits Elder, Carideo, Mullins, and Brill. 
Obi Great is this migbty quartet of Soutb Bend, Heroic tbese Berserlu from far Iudiana; 'Tis fitting tbat cbeers of all Pittsburgb sball blend 
Today witb tbe tbunder of sportdom's Hosamzab, As seventy tbousaud of fans gaze tbeir fill On Elder, Carideo, Mullins, and Brill . 
(Editor's Note--This poem is reproduced here thro~gh the very kind permission of the author and the Pittsburgh Sun-Telegram in which paper it appeared October 25, .the eve of the Notre Dame-Carnegie Tech game.) 
Feg M·urray Votes For Notre ·Datne 

By FEG MuRRAY 

(Editor's Note: This tribute by Mr. Muruy is reproduced here through the courtesy o£ Mr. Murray himself, the Metropolitan Newspaper Service, :and the South Bend Nt"rvs-Timt"s in which it appeared December 6.) 
..The End of the Trail!" But how different from James Earle Fraser's famous statue of that name, with the half­clad Indian bent -low over his tired horse out of the snowy, wind-swept plain! The Horseman of Notre Dame ~nd his steed, Rambler, are both tired, to be sure, and they came 
.to the end of the trail on an icy, ·wind-swept field, but it was a trail that lead to victory, and so both horse and ~ider are proud and happy. The lorig, long trail that began last Oct. 5, only ended on Nov. 30 with Notre Dame's toughest game of all, against an inspired Army team, and don't kid yourself that the Irish's job of keeping thei~ slate clean against the eleven Biff Jones thre·w.at them, aft~r playing eight hard games in a row, was any easy task. 
That 95-yard dash of Jack Elder's was~'t just a..break," and who can tell what Rockne's men might have uncovered had they not got" those precious seven points through that lucky (for them) pass of Cagle's? 
I think that Notre Dame is deserving of the 1929 Na­tional Football Championship because the Rocks of South Bend went through the toughest nine-game schedule any team in the land faced, without losing or tying a game. 
Notre Dame's First Football Team 
By JOHN E. BERGAN 

Standing, left to right: J. J. Hepburn, end; George Houck, tackle; Edward Hawkins, guard; Frank Fehr, center; Patrick 
J. Nclso, guard; E. P. Melady, tackle; F. H. Springer, end. Seated, left to right: H. M. Jewett, half-back; J. E. Cusack, quarter-back; H. B. Luhn, coach, captain and half-back; and Ed Prudhomme, full-back. , 
The great football team representing Notre Dame this year with its squad of 100 men can turn its eyes backward to the one representing the Blue and Gold in 1887, the year of the inception of football at Notre Dame, to the time when eleven men composed the football team because there were but eleven suits in the University. 
·At a meeting held in Brownson hall in March, 1887, ten students of the University decided that the school should be represented by a football team. The suggestion was approved and Brother Joachim was petitioned to provide the team with a football. He tried but his efforts were in vain, for there was not a pigskin to be had about the campus or in the city of South Bend. He did not know how to make one (nearly everything was made in th~ community in those days) so an order was sent to Chicago for the ball. The finances for the ball were raised by pop­ular subscription and from the treasury of the literary society. The ball did not arrive for two weeks and when it did come its owners were disappointed in its shape which resembled that of a modern basketball. 

The organizers were undaunted by the brisk weather of March and began active practice for the organization of Notre Dame's first varsity. Fifteen fellows answered the call for candidates for the team but only eleven men were given suits. 
Weeks of practice followed and by the middle of April a fair team represented the student body on the gridiron. The field then was on the present location of the Hoynes College of Law. Two rocks formed the outside bound­aries and two trees served as the goals. Later, two old poles formed the goal so that kicks might be made. A rail fence was erected and served as the outside marker and as bleachers when the game became dull to the spectators. 
During the days of practice there would never be enough men on the :field for an opposing team, so innocent by-standers were grafted into practice so that the team could have its workout. Whether these men knew how to pla.y the game did not matter. They needed no suits as the. uniforms worn by the varsity were much like baseball suits of ~oday, cotton stockings completed the attire. Headgears, shoulder pads, and cleats were unheard of and a noseguard was occasionally used. 
Practicing with men of their own school became dull and much clamor was rife· as to carding a regular game with some other school or some team from the neighbor­ing city of South Bend. Harry Luhn, who captained :the team and acted as coach, booked a game with the strong Shamrock A~ C., of South Bend. 
The game was, indeed, a gory affair. It was played on Notre Dame's home field and turned out to be a bitterly fought contest. 
Before the. game, the rumor was circulated at Notre Dame that the South· Bend bunch had been boasting that they were coming out to clean Notre Dame so well that there would not be anything left. These rumors were so rife that the home team rooters came well armed and the officials from South Bend failed to put in an appearance. In their places were chosen the-Villagers' cheer-leader, who acted as referee, and John Burke, janitor of Brownson hall, wh() was umpire.. 
The game certainly had its arguments and disputes. It lasted fully two hours and a half. Notre Dame finally managed to win, 8 to 4, Joe Cusack scoring one touch­down and Luhn the other. The contest was particularly hard on the string of substitutes, for men were laid out with astounding regularity. Only very open and conspicu­ous slugging was noted by the officials. Notre Dame finished the game with ·nine men, all of whom were com­pletely and beautifully battered. up. 
Two regular games were "played with Michigan later that year, but the light and inexperienced team ·could not cope with the heavy, aggressive Wolver~nes and succumbed by scores of 24 to 6 and 4 to 0. _However, the team did some very fine playing and merited much comment from the boys of Michigan. 
·In these games there were no mass formations, even the uflying wedge" was unheard of then. Kic~ing and end runs were the plays most frequently used. 
. . 

The fo.otball at Notre Dame had gained quite an im­petus and by the next year Notre Dame won the champion­ship of Indiana and Illinois by defeating the ·Harvard school, of Chicago, 20 to 0. This game. was played at Notre Dame and was witnessed by 500 people, the largest crowd ever to view an athletic contest in the state ·of Indiana. Prudhomme, the full-back,· and Fehr," the cen­ter-rusher, were the stars of this fra.y and accounted ·for all of Notre Da.me's ·points. The tackling. in this game was vicious but no· slugging was noted; Forty-five minute periods were played and South Bend men did the officiating. 
The members of the first football team of Notre Dame's and their present occupations are; · Dr. H. B. Luhn, coach, captain, and half-back-medical doctor, Spokane, \Vfash. 
H. M...Hal" Jewett, naif-back-former president Paige Motor Car Co., Detroit, Mich. Joseph E. Cusack, quarter-back-colonel, U. S.. Army, El Paso, Texas. George A. Houck, tackle-ranch owner, Portland, Ore. Joseph L. Hepburn, end-insurance, Detroit, Mich. Ed:ward .. Sim" Hawkins, guard-city official, Detroit, Mich. · Frank ·cc:Dutch" Fehr, center~apitaiist, Louisville, Ky. Patrick J. Nelson, guard-Judge of District ~ourt of Iowa, Dubuque, Iowa.. · · 
Ed. Prudhomme, full-back-member of legislature, Berud;:t, La.· · . · 
F. H ...Dad" Springer, end-attorney, Columbus; Ga. 
·· Eugene P. ..Butch" Melady, tackle-meat packer, Omaha, Neb. 
Thirteen Receive Hering· Medal· Contest A wards 
One of the big events of spring practice at Notre Dame is the awarding of the Frank A. Hering medals for pro­ficiency in various departments. Mr. Hering, donor of the medals, was captain at Notre Dame in 1897 and coach at the ~arne time. He continued his coaching activities dur­ing the next two years and since then has been one of the most loyal of the many dyed-in-the-wool fans. 
Thirteen medals were given this year in the following departments of the game to the following players: 
Punting-Eddie O'Brien. 
Place-Kicking-Clarence Kaplan. 
Passing-Marchmont Schwartz. 

Pass Defense-Emmett Murphy. Pass Receiving-Alfred Grisanti. Center Passing-Thomas Y arr. Full-backs Taking Ends in-Paul O'Connor. Quarter-backs Taking Out Secondary-Norbert Christ-
man. 

Ends Blocking Tackles-John Col rick. 
Offensive Line Charge-John Law and Bert Metzger. 
(Law won on toss for the medal.) Guards Pulling Out.:_Jack Cannon .. Tackles Across the Line of Scrimmage-Dick Donoghue. 
Rockne-Trained Coaches Have ·Good Year 
ByJOSEPH s. PETRITZ 
· The increased use of the Rockne system of football has enlarged the demand fo.r coaches· trained by the old master until the list of mentors who received ·their scho-oling ·at Notre Da.me has become the most important in college cir­cles· toda:y: Bcsid~s tho~e at: various high schools and prep institutions;throughout the country,over 75 .for_iner.wearers of the Blu.e and Gold are .instructing university and college teams i!l :t~e finer points. of the popular Fall sport. . 
.That .thi~. dem;nd. is-justified is .shown by. a. gl~nce over the.long list of su_cccsses ·these men have made during their c:arcers and especially this.past season.· It is not uncqmmon t~ see ~s manyas three or four former stars from the Rockne stables o~ the same c~ach_ing staff; in fact, it is quite the r:u~e rather than. the. exception-where any Notre D~me men are employed. 
Right here at Notre Dame, Tom Lieb, Jack Chevigny, Ike Voedisch, and Bill Jones, handled the 1929 champions during a most rigorous season. Lieb and Chevigny had charge _of the team in six of its nine games and brought it through all' of them without a slip. Voedisch has de­veloped a set· of ends that can take its place with any in the country, and Jones has helped Tommy Mills build up one of the best Freshmen squads in Notre Dame history. 
The story of how Jimmy Phelan, '26, upset the pro­verbial dope bucket all over the Big Ten-or Big Nine as it may be called now-to win Purdue's first conference championship is certainly one for the books. He attributes a large share of credit for this showing t.o Noble Kizer, guard on the Four Horsemen team of 1924, and Mel Edwards, another former Rockne star. Purdue wasn't given an outside chance at the beginning of the season, but. had the conference crown cinched a week before the sea­son ended and by finishing its schedule undefeated, made a claim to national honors second only ·to Notre Dame's. 
In addition to Kizer, every member of the championship 

Four Horsemen eleven is passing on to posterity the tricks of the system that won him undying fame. Harry Stuhldreher, quarter-back, is now doing big things as head coach at Villanova college in Pennsylvania, where he is assisted by Ed Hunsinger, who teamed with him at right end. Bob Regan, of the famous 1924 shock troops; is also giving Harry a hand as an assistant coach. Their team . won from such strong opponents as Oglethorpe, Loyola, Catholic U., and Duke, and tied with Boston college during 
_the past season. 
Don Miller, 'right half Horseman, is backfield coach at Ohio State now after his three successful years at Georgia Tech, and Edgar Miller, right tackle with the Seven Mules, is an assistant coach at Navy. Elmer Layden, full-back, and J~e Bach, left tackle, have charge of the strong Duquense eleven that showed a· distinctive Notre Dame trait, perseverance, by marching 90 ya.rds in the last two minutes of play to tie a stubborn \Vfest Virginia team this Fall. 
Jimmy uSleepy" Crowley got off to a promising start at Michigan State where he took up the reins of head coach this Fall. uchuck" Collins, left end, has charge of the gridiron destinies of North Carolina. university and is being assisted by Bill Cerney, shock trooper of 1929. The Chapel Hill boys knocked off such aggregations as Georgia Tech, last year's national champions, Virginia Poly, North Caro­lina State, South Carolina, and Davidson, losing_ to Georgia by only one touchdown. 
Adam W-alsh, captain and All-American center, and John Weibel, left guard in the Seven Muie team, arc assistant coaches. The former is at Yale and the latter at Vanderbilt. \Vfalsh went to the Bulldogs this year fr~m Santa Clara, where he ~as head coach during a successful regime, and was the first outsider in some time to join the all-Yale staff of mentors. The work of his powerful line, which the critics say improved 50 per cent this year, was largely rcsponsibl~ for a gratifying season that saw one of th~ Blue's hardest schedules in· history. 
The team they arc talking about out West is little St. Mary's which one writer has termed, uthe Notre Dame of the Coast," and which has just completed a highly com­. mendable season that saw its goal line uncrossed and that makes St. M~ry's a potential ~ember of a. big four, consist­ing of California, Stanford and Southern California. This team is coached by Ed uSlip" Madigan, who finished his playing career here in 1920 and who is assisted by Frank 
Andrc~s of the 1918 eleven. I 
Another big team from a small school on the coast is Santa Clara, who held St. Mary's to a 6 to 0 score and beat Stanford this ~cason for the second time in three years. Maurice uclipper" Smith, another Rockne pupil, has charge here and is assisted by Larry Shaw, a Notre Dame man. 
Harry Mehre, '22, head coach, and Frank Thomas, '23, assistant mentor, pulled their Georgia eleven along at a fast clip this year and beat, among oth~rs, Yale with Adam \Vfalsh's line and all, Chuck Collin's North Carolina boys, ~nd Georgia Tech. 
\X'hile Gus Dorais didn't learn his football from Rockne, 
he did learn it with him on the team that startled the· foot­
ball world with the Rockne-Dorais forward pass combina­
tion, and he is assisted by Harvey Brown, captain in 1924, 
and John Frederick, '28, in the gridiron instruction business 
at Detroit university. His teams won 21 straight games up 
until they met the Oregon Aggies this year and they lost 
by only one touchdown, 14 to 7, when their winning 

streak was broken. ·Their long list of victories started ·just after Notre Dame had beaten them in ·1927. ..Hunk" Anderson, '22, who helped ..Rock" for four years a.t ·the beginning of his coaching career, has the situ­ation well under control at St. Louis university with his Notre Dame helpers, the famous Christy Flanagan of 1926, and .. Chili" \X'alsh, '2 8. ..Hunk", Christy and .. Chili" work with the line, backs, and ends, respectively, and their 
Billikins managed to take the count of Oglethorpe, South 
Dakota State, and Coe during t~e course of an off season. 
Gene Oberst, '24, and Forest Fletcher, track star who 
finished in '12, guide the \X'ashington and Lee Pres~dents 
in their pigskin activities; Chet \X'ynne, '22, and John 
McMullan, '26, handle the fate of Creighton's el~ven; Joe 
Boland, guard in '25 and '26, and his teammate, Frank 
Mayer, are at the College of St. Thom.as in St. Paul, 
Art Bergman, '20, is an assistant in the same. town at 
Minnesota university; and Harry O'Boyle and Luke Kelly 
help out at Holy Cross. . 
There are some 3 5 or 40 others, both head coaches and assistants, in la.rge and small colleges throughout the country who helped t~ put Rockne football on the map and who are doing much to keep it there with their own teams. And don't forget ..King Knute" the teacher of teachers who showed this brilliant array of mentors the fundamentals of the game that they all love so much and teach so thoroughly. 
Although flat on his back during the major portion .of the season his influence was felt strongly and will be as long as his pupils stick to. the principles h~ taught them. Most of his men consistently are successful, a few of them are not, but they can't go wrong if they stick to the ad­vice he gave them when they were playing for him. 
THE VICTORY MARCH 
( 
Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame, 
.1\7ake up the echoes cheering her uame, 
Semi a volley cheer on higb 
Shake down tbe tbu11der from the sky, 
1\7hat thougb tbe odds be great or small, 
Old Notre Dame willwht over all, 
1Vhile ber loyal sous are marcbittg 
Ottward to Victory. 
·A Picture of Rockne 


This is how R:>ckne looked when directing practice this Fall. him are Student Manager Jack Saunders and Varsity . Quarter-Back Frank Carideo.  With  
By LAWRENCE PERRY  
A  picture-Notre  Dame arrives  in  Pittsburgh.  The  

Union station is crowded. A band of clear-eyed, well set­up young men debouch from the train. Two red caps, headed by a policeman push a wheel-chair through the crowd. The team stands waiting as Tom Lieb, a sculp­tured specimen of humanity, appears on the car platform bearing in his arms a chunk of a man with brown ·slouched hat pulled down over his eyes. 
Several players rush to the car steps but Lieb shakes his head. He is doing the job alone. He steps down to the platform and gently seats his burden in the wheel-chair. Rockne! A little fluttering cheer goes up. 
A motor car awaiting at the door. Lieb lifts his old teacher and now his chief into the car. The door slams. 
Now the' Pittsburgh Athletic Association. Sixth floor. An ante-room filled with men talking quietly and smoking. A physician comes out of a bedroom. . 
..Rock will see you and you and you," the medic says, singling out the lucky persons. . 
On the bed, in yellow and cream striped pajamas, reclines Knute. At one side a magazine. On the other a box of cigars. He is smoking a cigar. His face has the bloom of health and his blue eyes were never more blue, neve: more clear. · 
Now comes a group of new stories which shall not be told here because Knute will want to spring them·at dinners and -so forth later and it would be a crime to take the bloom off . 
Later. A· motor car rolling to the Notre Dame bench. Tom Lieb. lifting Rockne into his wheel . chair where throughout the game he sits like some incapacitated Napoleon. But brain still working. Later still. The car swallowed in the midst of cheering, gyrating ·Notre Damians. 
(Editor's Note: This word-picture is offered here through the courtesy of Mr. Perry 2nd the South Bend Tribtm~.) 
Chapel Car Used on . Baltimore Trip 

So that their hurried return trip from the Navy game 
at Baltimore might not be without its Sunday Mass, the 
Notre Dame team was supplied with a traveling church 
in the form of a chapel car. 
Playing every game on the road, these God-fearing boys 
had to rush home each week in order to be ready for their 
next trip. Sometimes they heard Mass after getting honie, 
other times, they stopped on the way or, as at Chicago, 
they observed the ~ord's Day before leaving for the cam­
pus. \Vhen they left Baltimore Saturday night after the 
game, they were stumped for a while, but the Baltimore 
& Ohio railroad company came to. their rescue Sunday 
morning. · 
\Vhen the entourage reached \Villard, Ohio, the mobile 
church, which is shown above, was hooked onto their train 
and they enjoyed the unusual experience of hearing Mass 
en route. The chapel car contains everything essential to 
celebration of the Mass;· and everything is of the finest 
material that the great Pullman company could find. The 
car was built for the use of many of the highest digni­
taries of the Catholic Church who attended the Eucharistic 
Congress iri Chicago. 
Mass for the team was celebrated by Rev. William 
Maloney, C. S. C., registrar of the university, who accom­
panied the team to Baltimore, with special permission from 
His Excellency, Most Reverend Pietro Fumasonu-Biondi, 
Apostolic delegate in Washington, D. C. 
Since this unusual incident, authorities of the University 

have received numerous letters from all parts of the couri­.try complimenting the school of Our Lady on the won­derful example her sons gave to the youth of America on 
this and other occasions. 
They come from all over to pla.y under Rockne. In the first string back field, we find Carideo, from Mt. Vernon, 
N. Y., Elder from Lebanon, Ky., Mullins from Pasadena, Calif., and Brill from Philadelphia, Pa. In the line we have Colrick from New Jersey, Twomey from Minnesota, Can­non from Ohio, Moynihan from Chicago, Law from Yonk­ers, N. Y., Donoghue from Auburn, N. Y., and Vezie from Pennsylvania. 
c:cThe Fighting Irish" 
ByT. VINCENTMclNTIRE 

The term .. Fighting Irish" has been applied to Notre 
Dame football teams for years. It first attached itself 
years ago when the· school, comparatively unknown, sent 
its athletic· team away to play in another city. Sports 
writers used the term in an ironical, unsympathetic way. 
At that time ..Fighting Irish" held no glory or prestige. It 
was given by sports writers in the same sense that the crowd 
would give a head of cabbage to a ..ham" actor. 
The years passed swiftly and t_he little school began to 
take a place in the sports world. Journalists suddenly 
woke to find the cabbage transferred into a beautiful bou­
quet of shamrocks. The ..ham" actor no longer took his 
bow to an indifferent audience but answered the 'curtain to 
an enthusiastic crowd. ccFighting Irish" took on a new 
meaning. The unknown of a few years· past had boldly 
taken a place among the leaders. The unkind appellation 
became symbolic of the struggle for supremacy in the field. 
. ..Fighting Irish!" Recall the associations of the. term. 
Think of John T. Mitchell, Robert Emmett, \Vol£ Tone, or 
Edward Fitzgerald, fighting Irish all! Review the strug­
gles qf an indomitable race crushed under the cruel heel of 
an empire's boot. \Vhat does the term imply? Does it 
not recall the Easter of 1916, when sixteen «fighting Irish" 
were backed against a wall in Dublin barracks and shot to 
death? Doe~ it not recall the gallant struggle for existence 
while famine and foreign law clutched savagely at the 
throats of a stricken but unconquered Ireland? 
The term while given in irony has become our heritage. 
The implications of ..Fighting Irish" are too much like our own struggles for recognition to be so easily ignored. We are criticised on _every side for using the term but the critics gave us the name. They too, see that it has more than one application. Too late they seek to retract what they gave in irony a few years ago. ·Realizing that the name CCFighting Irish" has taken a significance they never _dreamed of, they now seek to disparage us ·again by other terms. ..\Vandering Nomads" we are called...Ramblers," uGalloping Gaels,'.' and uFighting Irish-Italians" are made · use of to describe us. None of the terms stick. We hope they will not. One by . one, the sports writers will come 
back grudgingly to the old name. 
The ethnologists object to the name on the grounds that 
the Irish are in the minority on the football team. ·The 
Savoldis, Carideos, and the Schwartz's, they say, are not 
Irish, and so are not fighting Irish. For that matter Yale 
'teams are not c~Bulldogs," Wisconsin players are not 
UBadgers," or Northwestern uwildcats." Our name is 
merely an identifying one which has been glorified on many 
a field of battle. So truly does it represent us that we are 
unwilling to part with it. With the Moynihans, the Leahys, 
the Cannons, and the Collins' to justify the name, let us 
go down through history as the .. Fighting Irish" of Notre 
Dame. The term is our legacy, won by grim unyielding . struggle. The name honors us. . Let us honor the name. And we are sure the Eichenlaubs and the Rocknes, the Eggemans and the Stuhldrehers of the past will be with us; and, too, the Carideos and the Schwartz's and the Savoldis of the present generation.· 
(Editor's Note: This editorial is reprinted here through the courtesy of the Notre Dame Scholastic.) · · 
A Tribute to the 1929 Champions 
Eleven men in blue, eleven heads high, Wrote history across the gridiron sky: Carideo, Savoldi, Elder aud Mullius, Camt01t aud Law, Twomey and Col/ius. 
Eleve1t giants were these~ who fought the best Who battled for 11orth, south, east ~11d west­Trojans, Badgers, Caruegie Tech, Army, PurjJ/e, the Ramblin' \Vreck.· 
The Irish they call them, fighters, too; Aud fight they did 'till ibe whistle blew, 'Till twilight washed the sod with gray Aud cheers were stilled for auother day. 
From cud to eud, tbe liue was steel. It charged ahead like a thing uureal; Scarce a day was seen when rival back Made yardage t!:Jere witb any attack. 
One man [lt half whose 11ame was Brill K11ew how to rusb aud quic/Uy spill Ball aud carrier ever so wary; No better ?nan played secondary. 
Across tbe chalk-marlwd turf there sjJed A youtb witb ligbtuing in his tread; Stauds rose to cry: rr\Vbo's eigbty-four?" rrElder I Elder/" came tbe ecboing roar. 
T bey slasbed tbe tacHes, auil ran tbe cuds, T ben tossed a jJass to malw ameuds For loss on peualty or otber slijJ Shed in the haste of a toucbdown trip. 
One man tbere is, aud ouly oue, \Vhose tea11; could go. from smt to suu Aud make 110 bluuder, even sligbt, N~r fail to demoustrate its migbt. 
T be master baud I In single breatb His 1~ien for l:Jim -zvould ride to deatb. Rock ta1egbt tbe1n how to jJlay tbe game; They answered-aud won for Notre Dame. 
-CHARLES 0. MoLz, '24. Detroit, Mich. 

TO GEORGE GIPP 

Sbort years ago he lived aud fame was .his; Short ye.ars..ago his uame crashed 'gaiust a crimson sky, Aud Ca'i1!P.. (md otbers bailed him great. But tbose wbo lt1zew bim thougbt him more than great­For tbose wbo kuew GijJjJ loved him. 
· He died, aud many mourned bis jJassing; A11d others said, rrHe.'s. golle-The great GijJjJ g01z.e. forever." But tbere are tbose who kuow tbat tbough The lwenmiud and .mighty body are but dust­
.Gipp lives/ ·For how did mediocrity rise sobbing ·Over tbose bailed great? 
-HARRY A. SYLVESTER, ]R. Editor's Note: This :w:ts written Dec. 13, 1929, for the ~inth :tnnh·ersuy ·of ~eto~~c~!i;;:sn:ees~th, :and w~s inspired by the Army victory of 1~28 v.-ith its :attend­
::: 
J ·r­

86 OFFICIAL FOOTBALL. REVIEW-1929 I 
! 

In the Spiri~ of St. Francis Xavier 
Here at Notre Dame, we take our football seriously. That doesn't mean \Vall street fashion, as a betting propo­sition; or Carnegie-Report fashion, as paramount to other interests; or C. C. Pyle fashion, as work instead of play. To recall to your minds just wha-t football means to Notre Dame, we reprint a couple of paragraphs frorp the Bulletin of October 8: · 
..Notre Dame football is a spiritual service because it­is played for the honor-and glory of God and the exaltation of his Blessed Mother. \Vhen St. Paul said, c\Vhether you eat or drink, or whatsoever else you do, do all for the glory of God,' he included football as well as everything else that is not sinful; and when we make our morning offering of all the thoughts, words, and actions of the day to God, we include honest recreation as well as food and drink and study. Tradition at this school has made this spiritual service more intense because daily Communion and prayer have been made a part of the training schedule, each game is dedicated to some Saint, and the shocks and bruises and disappointments of the season, as well as the glory of victory, have been offered for the Poor Souls or for some particular soul in affiiction. 
..What part does victory play .in this service? The combination of consistent victories brilliant, gritty play­ing, and man-killing schedules has given Our Lady's team the largest and friendliest p-ublic following in this country. And as sports writers scratch their heads ove~ this phe­nomenon, they come closer and closer to acquainting the public with the ideals that dominate both the school and the team. Catholic schools know what makes the. differ­ence, and when they seek a coach from Notre Dame they invariably ask: .. Is he a daily communicant? Is he likely to extort a good spiritual infl_uence on our school?" 
This year's season has furnished a brilliant example of the spiritual service of Notre Dame football. With an attend­ance of 570,000 spectators at nine games, and a capacity attendance of 122,500 at one game and 300,000 applica­tions for the 80,000 scats at another, there is no doubt about . the popularity of the team. Press comment has been, for the most part, exceptionally friendly, and there has been notable absence of two features of a generation ag~ caustic comment or a conspiracy of silence on the part of the press. Furthermore, the press has been eager for more material than·it could have on the spiritual side of the 
players. 
Scores of communications have told us of the edification that has come from observation of the spiritual side of Notre Dame football. One man is thrilled to see a player go up from. the benches to serve a Mass when a. priest comes out alone; another is moved profoundly when three guests at his home turn down his .wife's hot sausages and cakes because they want to receive Holy Communion the morn­ing after the· game; a high-school team writes for the ««medals the Notre Dame men wear;" a nun writes that her pupi~s arc praying_ for the coach and. the team; priests here 

and there all over the country, urging their parishoners and their Holy_ N·ame Societies to frequent Communion, quote the example of the team. 
Tomorrow is the feast of St. Francis Xavier, one of the first followers of St. Igna.tius, and the Apostle of India. He is said to have converted more than a million· people. He did things in a large way. St. Ignatius won the heart of Francis when he was a brilliant, somewhat worldly-young student at the University of Paris, by repeating to him constantly, u\Vhat shall it profit a man to gain the whole world if he suffer the loss of his soul?" And that is the spirit in which the members of the team of 1929 arc asked by their school to· accept the national championship. One hundred years from now, some pokey scholar may dig out of an ancient I!lagazine an account of the fleeting glory of the football championship of this year; but the players will have eterl!al glory in Heaven if a hundred years from now they will be surrounded there by fans, total strangers to .them now, whom they won to love of God. In this spirit, then, thank God tomorrow in Holy Communion for the championship of 1929. 
(Editor's Note: This is reprinted from the Religious Bulletin of December 2 with the kind permission of Rev. John O'Hara, Prefect of Religion at Notre Dame.) 
Congratulations Men-of Notre,Dame 
rou Have Done Nobly! 

STORE FOR MEN SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 

OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1929 

.. scie11tiously supervised the constructio11 of all Wilsott equipmeut beariug his 1zame. Any article of sports equipme1tt digtti­fied by his sig11ature has met, itt every detail, a most critical dema11d. 

The undefeated 1929 Notre Dame National Champions were equipped from head to toe with the Wilson Football EquipllJ.ent. 
What greater endorsenzent could be asked? 

THERE IS WILSON EQ_UIPMENT FOR EVERY SPORT 
WILSON 
ATI-ILETI~ EQ_UIPMENT 
WILSON-WESTERN SPORTING GOODS CO. 
New York Chicago San Francisco 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1929 
1,3 00 Praise 1929-Cham.pions at Testim.onial Dinner 
Over 1,300 persons paid tribute to Notre Dame's 1929 football team on December 5 at the university dining-halls, the occasion being the annual testimonial banquet to the 'I team by the St. Joseph Valley Notre Dame club. It was..the largest crowd ever to attend one of these dinners in the six
'I 
years that they have been given. The dinner was unique not only in size, but in· the fact that Coach Rockne was unable to attend it due to illness that had kept him away from the team most of the fall. His absence enabled the notable speakers present to express their true feeling toward him without any embarrassment, al­though he was listening in to the talks on a radio at his bedside. Highlights on the program of excellent speakers were the talk of Jimmy Phelan, a former Rockne pupil who · showed Purdue the way to its ~rst Big Ten championship this fall, and the one by Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C., president.of the University of Notre Dame.· Phelan very generously stated that : ui bring from Purdue and from Purdue's players, the word that we con­sider Notre Dame the greatest team in America today, and Purdue claims nothing more than the championship of its own little league and of Tippecanoe county." Father O'Donnell, before launching into the body of his talk, in­sisted that Purdue consider itself at least the co-holder of the national title with Notre ·Dame. ·.· · '· · ·. The main part of Father ·a~Donnell's-" speech consisted in a defense of college athle~ics as consider~~ und~r: t,he 

headings of crowds, its support of scholastic and other cur­
ricular features, ·and commercialism in athletics. He gave 
figures to show that in spite of the tremendous increase in 
number of those attending games, football still belongs to 
the schools and not to some intangible heterogeneous mob. 
He pointed out that athletics had been supported by sources 
other than itself for a long time and that it was only fair 
that athletics should repay some of its debt to these sources, 
the scholastic departments of the university.· He con­
cluded with a strong argument .to the effect that com­
mercialism is not the motivating force in college athletics 
today, giving as proof the new Notre Dame stadium which 
will cost in the neighborhood of $700,000 and which will 
not enable Notre Dame to make as much money as it could ·playing aw:iy from home. 
Paul Castner, president of the Notre Dame club of St. Joseph Valley, was the presiding officer at the dinner and \Varren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago Herald-Exam­i1ler, was the toastmaster. Other speakers were H. 0. uPat" Page, coach at Indiana, \Villiam uNavy Bill" Ingram, coach a.t Navy, Capt. Lawrence .. Biff" Jones, Army coach, Judge \Valter P. Steffan, ~arnegie Tech coach, Harvey T. Woodruff, columnist with the Chicago Tribu11e, and Hon. Harry C. Leslie, governor of Indiana. 
All of these men spoke in glowing terms of Notre Dame's 

current and past successes on the gridiron and of their re­
spect and love of Coach Ro.ckne. Among those invited, 
who were unable to attend were Hon. James Walker, mayor 
· (Continued on page 89) 

Our Co~pliments to the 1929 National Champions 

Home Lawn Sanitarium Martinsville, Indiana 
: ~ .
,., 
) 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1929 
89 

1930 Grid-Card Announced 
At the end of the 1929 season, Coach Rockne said that he would never line up another tough schedule for his team. On December 14, after a meeting with the faculty board of control, he came forth with a ten game card that takes its place easily with that of 1929, and with any other his teams have played. 
Five of the games will be in the new stadium now under construction and five of them will be on the road. Southern Me.thodist university, one of the best teams in the South this year, will be the first to trot onto the sod next fall, and after them, Navy will dedicate the new arena. 
Three teams. from Pennsylvania, Carnegie Tech, Pitts­burgh, and Pennsylvania-are on the card with Indiana and Northwestern of the Big Nine, and Drake, Missouri Valley champions. The 1930 team will close its season with the annual Army game in New.York on Nov. 29 and an­other on the coast with Southern California the following week. 
Southern Methodist university~ Pittsburgh, and Pennsyl­vania are the only additions to the 1929 schedule and Wis­consin and Georgia Tech are the teams dropped. 
Following is the complete schedule: 
Oct. ·4-Southern Methodist at South Bend. 
Oct. 11-Navy at South Bend. 
Oc~. 18-Carnegie Tech at South Bend. 
Oct." 25__:Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh. 
Nov. 1-lndiana at South Bend. 
Nov. 8-Pennsylvania. at Philadelphia. 

Nov. 15-Drake at South Bend. 
Nov. 22-Northwestern at Evanston. 
Nov. 29-Army at New York. 
Dec. 5.-Southern California at Los Angeles. 
1,300 PRAISE 1929 CHAMPIONS AT TESTIMONIAL DINNER 
(Continued from page 88) 

of New York City, who was laid up with a cold received at 
the Army-Notre Dame game; Maj. John L. Griffith, Big 
Ten commissioner of athletics, who was busy with the Iowa 
affair which came in for a lot of good-natured banter during 
the· evening; Tom Lieb, assistant coach who handled the 
team during Rockne's illness, who was called to the bed­
side of his ill wife; and George Ade, the noted· humorist. 
The players were introduced by Jack Chevigny, assistant 
coach, and six of them, Colrick, Carideo, Moynihan, Can­
non, Elder, Twomey, and Capt. Law were presented with 
trophies symbolical .of their being placed on the Indiana­
polis Star's All-Indiana team. 
In the stress and strain.of his.illness, Coach Rockne for­
got his non-scouting agreement with Georgia Tech and 
sent Tommy Mills down to watch the Golden Tornado. 
\Vhen the matter was brought to his attention, he apolo­
gized to Coach Alexander and threw out all of Tommy's . valuable dope. 

Congratulatio11s to the 1929 Team on its. Successful Season 


GEORGIAN TERRACE -HOTEL 
Atlanta,. Georgia 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1929 
Sidelights on the Season 
For the second time in five years, Notre Dame has been awarded the Jack F. Rissman trophy symbolical of the national championship. Mr. Rissman bases his ratings on the strength of the team and its opponents rather than on percentage. Purdue was rated next to Notre Dame and Pittsburgh third. 
Statistics are always interesting, at least sometimes. Dur­

.ing the past season Notre Dame scored 145 points to its opponents 3 8, making 20 touchdowns to six for the oppo­sitiOn. Southern California was the only team· to score twice against the first string line; Georgia Tech scored once on the first club, and Navy, Drake, and Northwestern each once on the shock troops. Notre Dame made 1 0 8 first downs to its opponents 59; 2,307 yards from scrim­mage to their 843, and completed 18 passes out of 80 for J91 yards, while the enemy completed 29 out of 110 for 380 yards. 
Two of the longest runs of the season were made in Notre Dame games-Elder's run for 100 yard against Army, and Saunder's, of Southern California, for 95. Elder also got one for 60 against Indiana and one for 53 in the Georgia 
·Success to 
The Fightin' Irish 
THE 
NEWS-TIMES 

Tech game. Cariedo ran back a Northwestern punt for 80 yards and a. Georgia Tech kick for 73. 
Elder's pass to Conley in the Southeni California game was good for 53 yards and is probably the longest com­pleted by a major team this year. While on the subject of Elder, we might point out that" he led the team's scoring with seven touchdowns. Savoldi was next with six. . 
Jumping Joe Savoldi, the full-back who plunges, then gallops, was the best ground-gainer in the country during the season. He was given just an outside chance of making good last year when he spent his time with the reserves~ He averaged around four yar:ds this year. 
Jack Cannon, left guard, and Frank Carideo, quarter­back, were two of the most prominent All-American .se­lections of the year. · Both were almost unanimous choices of the experts. Ted Twomey, Tim Moynihan, Joe Savoldi, and Capt. Johnny Law also came in for a lot of honorable mention on the mythical elevens. 
RADIO-KEITH-ORPHEUM 
A1t1tou1tce the Sale 
Now 
RKO Show Pass Books 
The most novel, distinctive, and universally welcome gift for 
CHRISTMAS 

Give Golden Hours of Entertainment 
The Gift of Happiness is the finest present from one person to another 
$2.75 Book fo1· $2.50 
$5.50 Book for $5.00 
On Sale by all Granada or Palace Theatre Employees 

Sidelights on. the Season 
Twomey and Cannon were invited by Dick Hanley, Northwestern coach, to play on his team of Eastern stars against an eleven of Western luminaries on the Pacific coast, January 1. Elder was asked to play with a Midd!e­Western team. against some Southern stars during the holi­days but decided that he has had enough football and will spend Christmas with the folks in the old Kentucky home. 
The entire left side of the line consisting of Colrick, 

Twomey, and Cannon; two centers, Moynihan and Nash; 
right guard, Capt. Law, right end, Tom Murphy, and 
left half Elder will be lost to the team for next year and 
Coach Rockne will probably sing his usual song of woe .next fall before the season opens. 
Although Indiana is considered the football capital of the world with its Notre Dame and Purdue, there is not a single Hoosier on the former school's traveling squad and only three on th~ entire roster. Abe Zoss, of South Bend, is one of these and he was to have gone along to Bloomington for the opening game, but remembered that Oct. 5 was New Year's for him and had to stay home. 
The Nebraska Cornhuskers stopped off at South Bend on their way to their game with Syracuse university and were guests of the Notre Dame team at lunch before their hosts had to hop a train for Baltimore and the Navy game on Oct. 10. The Cornhuskers also worked out for a while on Cartier practice field, evidently getting some good out of their short drill-they beat Syracuse, 13 to 7. 
Tom Shaughnessy, a Notre Dame graduate and man­ager of the Chicago Blackhawks hockey team, had his puck-chasers at Notre Dame for a ten-day training session at Cartier .field. It snowed most of the time and the boys went through calisthenics in the gym. 
In 'speaking of the proposed plan for scoring one point for each first down, Coach Rockne said, ui underst~nd that the American League will score a point for each man left on base next year." 
This was the second time in two successive seasons that Notre Dame beat both· service teams,' having taken the count of both Army and Navy last year. 
L. P. 


ARDYCO. 
The H on the gridiron stands as the spur to achievement. In the field of business it stands for. a name widely known for good printing· and lithographing -L. P. Hardy Company in South Bend, Ind. 


OFFIC.IAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1929 
Sidelights· on the Season 
Colrick, Cannon, Law, Moynihan, Carideo, and Elder were placed on the Indianapolis Star's All-Indiana team and received attractive desk sets as rewards for their good work. Collins, Cannon, Moynihan, Twomey, Carideo, Law, and Brill were all placed on t~e United Press first All-State team. 
Tommy Mills and Bill Jones, freshmen coaches will cheer ..Rock" somewhat with what they claim is one· of the best Frosh squads in the history of the school. They gav~ out 44 numerals this fall and say that they can fill some of the gaps left in the line by graduation. 
Over one-fourth of the university's total enrollment played football with the varsity, reserves, Freshmen, and hall teams this fall. Eight hundred uniforms were issued by the equipment office. 
Although the team traveled to the Navy, Carnegie Tech, Georgia Tech, and Army games in sleepers, it is not true that the players sing .. Home, Sweet Home," every time they see a Pullman. 

The university band had a great time on its trip to the Army game and played in the lobby of the McAlpine hotel every time it got a chance. The organization broadcasted over a national hook-up, paraded on Park-Avenue;·and got a big kick out of tearing around the city in busses with a police escort. 
AI Culver, shock troop tackle, is the son of Bill Culver who played the same position for Northwestern in 1892-93­
94. Ed Collins, left end, is the brother of Chuck, one of Notre Dame's best flankmen and a member of the Seven Mules of 1924. He is coaching at North Carolina now. 
Eddie Shea and Frankie Garcia, two of the nation's -lead­ing featherweights, were scheduled to appear in a benefit show at the Notre Dame gym as we went to press. Their bout tops a good program carded for Dec. 20. 
Art Healy, who throws away all those ticket applica­tions, says that if the 600,000 who saw Notre Dame play this fall were placed end to end they would probably holler for 50-yard line seats_in the new stadium. 
( 
I 
i 

' 
O'SHEA KNITTING MILLS 
Makers of Athletic Knitted Wear for every 
sport. Durable, quality par excellence. 
That's why the Fighting Irish use them. 
2414-24 N. Sacramento Ave. Telephone, Albany so I I . CI-IICAGO 
D. C. O'Shea, President W. C. l{ing, Secretary ]. B. O'Shea, Vice-President. 
t
_.,. 

OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1929 
The Notre Dame first seven squads weighed -13,436 pounds this season, or approximately six and one-half tons. The average weight of the players was 174% pounds, thei'r average height five feet, 10% inches, their average age· 20 years. 
John Colrick, left end on the football team, closed his athletic career at Notre Dame with nine ·varsity letters to his credit, three each in football, basketball, and baseball. He was . captain and first baseman on the diamond club this year, and played center with the basketball quintet. 

Dick Donoghue, varsity right tackle, has two brothers playing footQall here. uBern" is a reserve half-back and Francis is one of the most promising ends on the Freshman squad. · Jack Cannon's brother, Dan, is another reserve half~ back. 
Much of the wood collected for Notre Dame's biggest bonfire the week preceding the Southern California game was given to the needy of South Bend and the blaze still surpassed anything of its kind ever seen here previously. 
A Chicago daily surprised Coach Rockne one morning with the news that he was to be' the recipient of a check for .$40,000, his ucut" of the gate recipts for the year that were said to be $800,000. Both Mr. Rockne and the uni­versity authorities denied the report, stating that he is on a straight salary and that when expenses are paid, the pro-. :fits of the season will be a great deal less than the reported amount. 
John Colrick, left end; Joe Nash, center; and AI Gebert, quarter-back; will all be in the lineup of Jimmy Phelan's Mid-Western star team that will play a team of South­\Vest luminaries during the holidays. 
Frank Carideo, All-American quarter-back, showed his versatility in an early-season basketball game when he scored Notre Dame's :fiftieth point against Albion. Notre Dame won, 59 to 11. Tom Conley, right end, was teaming with Frank at guard with the third team. 
Seventeen members of the football ·team were given the usual rigorous initiation into the Monogram club at the close of the season. They are: Brill, Culver, Kaplan, How­ard, Gebert, Kenneally, Kassis, Frank Leahy, Locke, McManmon, McNamara, Metzger, O'Connor, Savoldi, Schwartz, Vlk, and Y arr. The two senior managers, Johnnie Quinn and Bernie Conroy, were also initiated. All of the players named will be back next year. 
The Student Activities Council, under the direction of its president, Robert Hellrung, will emphasize the neces­sity of organized cheering and singing at basketball games this season so that the students will give good account of themselves next fall when the new stadium is opened. 
Jack Elder was presented with a football given and auto­graphed by Nancy Carrol, of talkie fame, for scoring the most points in the Army game. \Varren· Browri, jn mak­ing the presentation at the recent testimonial banquet, offered to thank her personally for Jack. 
"EVERYTHING FOR THE OFFICE" ED. A. GARVEY & co. Phone Randolph 1930 61 West Wacker·Drive Chicago, Ill. ( STATIONERS . . ENGRAVERS \~:·' PRINTERS .. f.· LITHOGRAPHERS OFFICE FURNITURE  

The Review's All-Opponent Team 
(Continued from page 77) 
these qualities are combined in a high degree. Throughout the \Vildcats' succ·essful season Bergherm's work was in great evidence. He rounds out what we consider an ideal backfield: a smart quarter-back who can run, pass, and kick as well as think; a. set of fast, shifty half-backs who can block and tackle as well as carry out the usual triple­threat assignments; and. a. plunging full-back who is smart defensively and who can clear the way_ for other ball­carriers. 
To complete our line, we pick John Parks, left guard and captain at \Visconsin. Small but scrappy, he supplied the inspiration that pulled together a faltering Badger eleven on more than one occasion this Fall. He is one of the school of smart .. vest-pocket" guards and distinguished himself this season with a comparatively weak team. 
In the controversy· over who should be on the first . eleven a great immber of other outstanding players were 
discussed by our advisors and they are mentioned here as 
some small recognition of their great ability. They are 
as follows: 
END5-Crane, Byng, and Jones, Navy; Baker, North­western; L. Flanagan and Rosenzweig, Carnegie Tech; 
'\ 

OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1929 
r.
"' 
Carlmark, Army; and Arbelbide, Southern California. 
· TACKLE5-Maree, Georgia. Tech; Schnupp, Carnegie Tech; Bowstrom, Navy; Price, Army; Riley and Marvil, 
Northwestern. 
GUARDS-Anderson, Northwestern; Barrager and Galloway, Southern California; Farmer, Georgia Tech; Koepke, Navy; a:nd Hojinaki, Indiana. 
CENTER5-Hughes,..Navy; Erickson, Northwestern; Rusk, Georgia Tech; Dye, Southern California; and Ringwalt, Indiana. 
QUARTER-BACKS -Duffield, Southern California; King, Drake; Hanley, Northwestern; Brubaker, Indiana; Eyth, Carnegie Tech; and Behr, \Visconsin. 
HALF~BACK5-Spring, Navy; Thomason and Mizell, Georgia Tech; Calderwood and Moore, Northwestern; Balay and Ross, Indiana; Barnes, Drake; Lusby and Oman, \Visconsin; Aspit, Southern California; O'Keefe, Army; Armentrout and T. Flanagan, Carnegie Tech. 
FULL-BACKS-Ka.rcis, Carnegie Tech; Clifton, Navy; Murrell, Army; Van Koten, Drake; Rebholz, \Visconsin; 
i 

Hill and Musick, Southern California; and Maree, Georgia 
I 

Tech. 
I 
I 
I 


GREAT LAKES DREDGE & DocK COMPANY 
RIVER AND HARBOR IMPROVEMENTS 
FOUNDATIONS, BRIDGES, PIERS, BREAKWATERS, LIGHTHOUSE::i, 
TUNNELS,  PNEUMATIC AND SUB-MARINE WORK  .  
CHICAGO  NEW YoRK  MILWAUKEE  PHILADELPHIA  
ALBANY  BUFFALO  CLEVELAND  SAULT STE MARIE  

OFFI·CIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1929 
Congratulations 
to a 
Great Football Team · 
C. S. B. & N~ I. Ry. Co. 
Your Honte Jl7hen in 
SOUTH BEND 
The 
OLIVER HOTEL 
*' * * 
1300 Comfor~able Rooms 
*·* * 
( Splendid Dining Room 
* * * 
Famous Tea Room & Soda Grill 
* * * 
Popular Cafeteria 
(onzpli?Jtents 
E: W. Crouse 

NAT-IONAL CASH REGISTER CO. 
107-109 E. LaSalle 

Greetings to Notre Dame 
ELLSWORTHS 

Forever Introducing the New 

OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1929 
The-Holiday Season 
Reaches Its Climax 
at CHICAGO'S 
MORRISON HOTEL 
Madison ·and Clark Streets 
Tallest Hotel in the World-46 Stories. High 
N
O PLACE in the hemisphere is· better identified with the spirit of old­fashioned hospitality than the Madison and Clark intersection.. Here the 
famous old Boston Oyster House, the Morrison's historic restaurant, has been a favorite rendezvous for over half a century. Its cheery, cordial atmos­phere has developed a "personal" character· throughout the entire hotel. 
Rooms, $·2..50 up,{ each with bath 
The strategic location of the building has so enhanced the revenues ~rom subrentals· that they pay all the ground rent, and the saving· is passed on to the guests. ·Rooms are rented at a fraction of the rate charged at other leading hotels for similar rooms. Every room is outside, with bath, circu­lating ice-water, bed-head reading lamp, telephone, radio set and Servidor. Every floor has its own housekeeper, and garage accommodation is abundant. 
·The Terrace Garden and Boston Oyster House 
The fame of this location is largely due to the individual character· of the Ter~ace Garden, which has won national celebrity with its delicious menus, vivacious dance music, and brilliant entertainments. The Cameo Room, seating 2,000, offers ideal conditions for fraternity meetings and banquet's. 

Write for Reservation or Telephone Franklin 9600 

L. P. HARDY CO., SOUTH BEND, IND. 












\ . 


.. RECREATION (ENT,ER1 INC. Offices 219 N. Michigan Street • I . SOUTH BEND,_ INDIANA· \ .. Builders and Operators Miniature Golf· Courses  


' 
:· 
l 
I .. 
i 
I 
. ·II 
! 
I 
I 
f 
l 
.! 
I 
.I 
I 



WASHINGTON NEW YORK KENNY BROS. 1 lNC. ·.CONTRACTORS . 302-8 DYCKMAN ST. 1 N. Y. C. FRANCIS P. KENNY THOS. W. KENNY  


\ i 
·' 
' 

. -­
·' 
Anderson Layden Lieb 
·Foley O'Boyle Rockne Twomey Heardon Elder Hanley O'Brien Nash O'Connor 
Carideo, Brill,· Mullins, Schwartz Capt. Conley, Kurth, Metzger, Yarr, Kassis Culver, Kosky
Rogers Anderson 
'I'o 7\[otre Dame Men
Nelson Dorais 
of 
Gipp 
The Present, Past and Future
Law O'Brien Riley 
l1t the spirit of the sple11did traditio11s of you1· 
Yarr, 
beloved Al11ta Mate1·, 1-ve have this p1·ivilege to exte1td every good 1-vish to each of you.
Oberst Flannagan Nolan O'Donnell Trafton Reiman Edwards Dahman Agnew 
The Ray Tennes Motor Company
Miller Enright 

Sacramento Boulevard and Milwaukee Ave. CHICAGO Pho~e Capital 1100 

.___:,-........ ·~-·-·..._._..____. --·~~~~~~-= .•-~ __ ... ......::::::-..-:::.-.~::-...":":"'
~-..... __~----...:.-.:.....~....;..:...:__:~----~---~-·-.._·~~·-...~.-;-..-:__,-_::;=~--.-:.;::.:=..::.::.::.--:;.:;::.:.-..:-:-;~·-~=-:--:::-_:_--;:-.D.::;;:_:-.:;·.::·:~..:.::::::::::..:::;:~4;;:;:_~.•-:::::.:;-:-,--:-:-=-=.-::-:.::-.:::-...... :-:-:-..::-.-:= .• ~=~-~~ 
' 
.·~ 
WORLD'S TALLEST HOTEL 
Tlte New Morrison, wizen completed, will be tlte world's largest· and tallest hotel, 46 stories ltiglt, with 3,450 rooms. 
I 

CHICAGO'S 
46 
STORIES HIGH 


MORRISON HOTEL 
CORNER MADISON and CLARK STREETS 
The new addition to the Morrison will increase the capacity of this 
1950 Rooms

hotel to, 2,450 rooms. Eventually, this will-become 3,450 rooms and the Morrison will then be the largest and tallest hotel in the world. . Each room is an outside room with bath, circulating ice water, bed­head lamp and Servidor. Valuable sub-leases make ·low rates possible. 


Write or .Wire for Reservations 

.· 

THE "FAMOUS HOL~HI GOLF BALL· IS 
TYPICAL. OF THE FINENESS OF ALL· .· 

WILSON SPORTS EQUIPMENT. IT IS . 
' ' : 
THE 11(H01(E OF CHAMPIONS.11 
NOTRE DAME VARSITY FOOTBALL TEAMS FOR YEARS HAVE BEE.N ·WILSON EQUIPPED+ SPORTS EQUIPMENT 
WILSON •WESTERN SPORTING CiOODS CO•. 
CHICAGO NEW YORK SAN FRANCISCO BOSTON LOS ANGELES 
'Two .Winners I 

I I I I I 
NOTRE DAME and the KENNEDY CORONET 

There: they go . . . around the end ~ . . fast . charg~ng interference'... the ball carrier behind them ; . . . Brill, Schwartz, Savoldi or Mullins and Cariedo ... five, ten, fifteen, twenty yards ...· 
, I . 

until aNotre ·Dame to~chdown is scored. Perhaps you ~annat be the~e· to see the game ...,hut .you C:an hear it . · . . play by play . with a 
KENNEDY CORONET. 



KENNEDY 

A STUDEBAKER FAMILY PRODUCT KENNEDY CORONET Specificatio~s . 
Height, I 7 inches. Base width, I 6 Vz inches. ·Depth, I 0 inches. Weight· (less , . shipping cal!c), 3 I pounds. Tubes, three


~e:Roya!ty~·~·.pfJ?adio 
COLIN B. KENNEDY ~ SOUTH BEND

1 Electro-dynamic speaker. Selec-Tone ­
CORPORATION INDIANA 
Control. ~rice, $69.50, with tubes. 


0'S H E·A . KN IT·r I N -.. G .M·rtrfLS 
... 
. : . 

· . Makers··ot Ath.letic;K.nitted ·Wear for eyery 
,... ~ : 

spo~t~ · Dur~ble, quality par excellence. 
:.:: . 
;!.., 

That's why the Fighting Irish use them. 
2414-24 N. Sacramento Ave. Telephone,Albany 5011 · CHICAGO 
! . 
D.· C. O'Shea, President 

W. C. K.ing, Secretar·y J. B. O'Shea, Vice-President 
<< 1930 )) Official Football Review 
UNIVERSITY, OF:· NOTRE DAME 
:• 


STAFF Joseph S. Petritz------~---·-----------------------~--Edifor-ill-~bief August L. Bondi___.______ ____________-_ ______-_ ______Business Manager Richard L. Donoghue ____________________:_ _________..:_ ____ Co-Publisber Thomas G. Kassis _____________________________________ Co-Publisber 
' CONTRIBUTORS Knute K. Rockne John uclipper" Smith Capt. Thomas Conley Frank Ca.rideo Francis \Vallace Robert E. Gorman Arch \Vard Neil C. Hurley \Varren Brown Edmund G. Britz Jack Elder John A. Kiener James Armstrong Robert M. Balfe Feg Murray Frank McA.dams Jack Cannon Art Kane Arthur uBud" Boeri'_lger 
-~·::........_-._:.·;... • .-::-..;:-.a.-.......;£-....11 ... -...--;.. ~~-........;_....;._-_;;_;;;..::.;.:.:.-.:..:.:..:-;..::::.·:::~.:;..:· . ...;;;.:..;,;.;~~:.:.~...:.:.-···-·.. --.... ----::=:::.:=-~:::::-..=-:-:::..-:.:-::.;=..~.--:::..-=..==·-=·-=--:.:~:.-:7""....""':..~::-'.::;;..~,.c:::;_:======:-:-::=-::::=====::-=-~=-=~,=---~ .. __---.------~
........:-.-::-.-._­
; 
Official Football Review-193 0 



U1ziversity of Nohe Da111e 


FOREWORD 
.~IS issue of tbe Official Foo;ball Review, li!w past issues, is meaut to give bomage to tbe fighting men of No~[f Dam.e (md to acquaiut their many admirers a1Ul followers with facts conceru­iug tbe team tbat 11ifght otberwise go uukuozvn outside of tbe· camjms. Notbiug·said in praise of tbe 1930 squad is meaut in a spirit of braggadocio; ratber, our comments are made from the point of view ·of an. outsider loo!dng in at tbe team ·zvitb an attitude of resj1ect and awe. 1Ve make 110 attempt to exaggerate tbe qualities of the Notre Dame jJ/ayers because we feel tbat tbis is 1mnecessary. Various things said in tbis publication in. their honor are the antithesis of wbat tbey would say about tbem­selves. To us, the)' are real beroes aud we only as!~ tbat the reader try to look at tbem througb our eyes. 
1Ve wisb fd take this occasion to tbauk our many contributors aud otbers who cooj1erated witb us .in this gesture of resj1ect for 1·vbat we houestly believe to be the greatest team in Notre Dame history. 
-THE EDITO_R. 

. 
Official Football Review-1930 


REVEREND CHARLES L. O'DONNELL, C.S.C. 
President U11iversity of Notre Dame 

U1ziversity of Notre Dame 
r:~-~.-:-·~.~-.-:-:--'.------~­
.-,-·_-.·. ---'t 
l 
I 
I· 
I .
! I. 
l-· 
J,
l . 
l I 
t 
! 
l 
I 

.. ' ·,, .~: . 
·::' 

___;_.:....__.~· _ _;_·_·-·-·---·'----'-------~'--1 
REVEREND MICHAEL A. MULCAIRE, C.S.C. 
Vice-Preside11t U11iversity of Notre Dame 
Chairman Athletic Board of Control 

9
' •.· ·~ ·. ..., _;,~.:::..:...., .._,.. . -...:.._.:.....__.~-_ ......:.:.;::.~c,:_·:._::.~----.. --.,;._, 

Official Football Review-1930 


Photo by McDonald 

KNUTE K. ROCKNE 
Director of Athletics; Head Football Cotfch 
· -·+d{ 12 r~·­

Unf.vc1·sity of Not1·e Dame 


HIS season has been a source of great satis­f~ction to 1ne, not particularly because 'We -zvon, but because of the fine feeling of 
·friends!Jip between 1nyself, the boys, and the 
, assistant· coaches. T h~ boys o~t the tea11t re­sponded as fine as any temn I !Jave e.ver had an~ in every -zva~y, o~~ the field and off tbe field, they reflected credit on the school. 
H eartl'y finderson, Cbevigny, ,Voedisch, and Moynihan ·mqde up the best varsity coai:bing staff I have ever had or ever bo pe ·to bave, and their untiring, unselfish, an·d 1tnoste1ztatious worl~ was very largely n?sponsible for our success. Bill Jones and V ezie -zvith the Fresh11zen -zvere excel­lent a·nd did a great deal to help bring our var­sity tea11t along. And to Dan Halpin and bis student 11zanagers -zvbo have helped to 1nake our season a success; 1Tt')J sincere thanks!_ 
K.NUTE K-. RocKNE 

.. ElU 
Official Football Review-193 0 
qy______ __..._ .. t...:.-~">-~~~.~--:--­

i i 
I 
I 
l 
i 
I 
i 
I 
!• 

CAPTAIN THOMAS A. CONLEY, Notre Dame, 1930 

;xms 
U1tiversity of Notre Dame 


S CAPTAIN of the Notre Da11ze tea11z of 1930, I wish first to express the ad1nira­tion of the temn for the excellent spori~­
1nanship displa')Jed by our ten opponents. Ever;' ga11te was cleanly fought and it -was a pleasure to 1neet tea11zs who so. well displayed the prin-­ciples of fair play. 
Ev~ry 1nan on the squad, whether with the .varsity or -with the reserves; cooperated to 1nake 
1ny position as captain as easy as possible and it 
-was this excellent spirit of temn play that 1nade 
our successful season possible. 

It has been a great experience to .play under Coach Rock11e and the other coaches who -worked so · untiringl-y to 1nal~e the ,season a success. 
Finally, let 1ne thank th~ students and facult')' in the 1za11ze ·of the players for their splendid support, both phy.sical an~ spiritual; which was a constant source of inspiration. 
THoMAS A. CoNLEY 


. .. ._ ... "--::-:===-. ~--"·===~=:....;:;z::...::::_·:;:;,..:::.=====-=-=-=--=-=-=--=-=--=--=--=--:::--======-=-=-=-::::•.·:0:.-:':-.-:_::-.~7"~~~"5iE.I·M~~Iiil 
Official Football Review-193'0 

Patrons' 
William 1. Gleason Chicago, Ill. 
Mr. P. C. ReillyIndianapolis, Ind. 
M. E. Stetz 
Haverstraw, New York 
Frank M. FinleyBrooklyn, New York 
julia A. Miller New York, New York Thomas j. McGowan · Haverstra'~· New York Edward KingNew York, New York 
j. V. Mitchell Rockville Centre, N. Y. · 
Timothy P. Brosnan New York, New York 
Edward F. Dunn Lake Geneva, Wis. 
j. Walter Hannon Indianapolis, Indiana 
Archie R. C:>mpbell
Flint, ·Michigan 
George Herm:-.nn, jr. Chicago, Illinois 
j. Kalman ReppaEast Chicago, Ind. 
Mr. T. j. Curtin Chicago, Illinois 
james j. Meara New York, New York 
Martin j. HealyNew York, New York 
Francis A. Bain . New York, New York 
Eugene Boeurle · 'Paterson, New 1ersey 
james A. FarleyNew York, New York 
Clarence 1. 1ames 
Philadelphia, Pa. 
Chris. T. Hendrick New York, New York 
joseph V. GallagherNew York, New York 
George ·F. Larkin Chicago, Illinoir 
Art Kane Bloomington, Illinois 
1ames Murphy Middletown, Conn. 
john B. Wheeler Chicago, Illinois 
john R. Barry· New York, New York 
W. P. Shinners Binghamton,-New York 
D. P. O'Keefe· Detroit, Michigan 
Patrick j. Keough ­Lake Bluff, Illinois 
Robert P. Morrow Buffalo, New York 
Herbert A. Mendelson Detroit, Michigan 
Marjorie Ann Mendelson Detroit, Michigan 
Doris Marie Mendelson Detroit, Michigan 
Richard O'Hara Chicago, Illinois 
T. P: O'Donovan Chicago, Illinois 
Francis W. Barrett East Orang, N. j. 
C. F. Feltham Chicago, Illinois 
Rev. Pat. Maloney, O.F.M. Chicago, Illinois 
George C. Rushmore Brooklyn, New York 
Frank A. Pavis New York, New York 
Reginald j. Hunt New York, New .York 
William Trelease Newark, New Jersey 
Charles W. LynchNew York, New York 
T. j. Cronin Binghamton, New York 
james P. Kierman New York, New York 
Charle~ F. Cullen Newark, New 1ersey 
john j. McCloskey Newark, New 1ersey 
Edgar Kobak New York, New York 
james D. McCann New Rochelle, N. Y. 
Martin F. Donohue New York, New York 
Peter A. Smith South Orange, N. 1. 
Thos. L. Grace Brooklyn, New York 
William j. ·KearyNew York, New York 
William Francis Hughes 3rd Caldwell, New 1ersey 
james j. BradleyLong Island, N. Y. 
john j. Sullivan Hartford, Conn. 
Herbert G. Callan Newark, New Jersey 
. Arthur G. Pe.acock New York, New York 
Barney Udolf New York, New York 
Thos. A. RyanNew York, New York 
Capt. Ed. McDonoughBronx, New York 
Dr. j. E. McCambridgePoughkeepsie, N. Y. 
Frank J. O'Connor San Francisco, Calif. 
Edmund H. Savord Sandusky, Ohio 
N. C•.DuffyPerth Amboy, N. j. 
Rev. Wm. A. Scullen, D.D. Cleveland, Ohio 
J. W. MaroneyPoughkeepsie, N. Y. 
1ohn 1oseph KenneyNew York, New York 
David R. Kirby · Detroit, Michigan 
j. Russell Gnau Detroit, Michigan 
George 1. CuddyNew York, New York 
Ove j. BjornNew York, New York 
Thomas F. Little Brooklyn, New York William D. ·Kelly Brooklyn, New York 
·Benjamin Margolis New Rochelle, N. Y. 
Rev. Walter D. CaseyHartford, Conn. 
john T. McConaghyArdmore, Penn. 
Thomas j. ·HerlihyChicago, Illinois 
joseph H. Higgins, Jr. Brooklyn, New York 
j. 
M. Studebaker, .Jr. South Bend, Indiana 

E. 
B. Wiggins Los Angeles, Calif. 


Bernard j. Fallon Chicago, Illinois 
T. R. Bergman San Francisco, Calif. Ernest E. L. Hammer New York, New York Geo. W. Burkitt, Jr. Houston, Texas · Michael Zimmer Chicago, Illinois Gerald H. Hurst. New York, New York joseph A. Menger San Antonio, Texas Edward j. Mahoney jersey City, N. J. Anthony j. Heinlein Brooklyn, New York 'Robert F. Tierney Pearl River, New York 
Samuel L. Bondi Dixon, Illinois 
W. ]. Bellinger Niagara Falls, N. Y. Tyl~r Williams Chicago, Illinois 
Andrew Rudner Coaldale, Pa. 
J. F. Cahill LaSalle, Illinois 
A. W. Buchanan Los Angeles, Calif. Mrs. A. G. Frishe Chicago, Illinois William V. Morris Freeport, L. I., N. Y. Paul Drueen, M. D. New York, New York · Edwin A. Stein Rochester, New York Joseph Hinchlitte P"!-terson, New Jersey Edward M. Mologhney New York, New York Charles J. O'Brien New York, New. York Charles E•. Riley Brooklyn, New York 
John E. Fitzgerald · Hammond, Indiana 
L. R. Rochette Chicago, . Illinois 
Daniel j. O'Connor Chicago, Illinois 
C. D. Hobson Chicago, Illinois Arthur A. O'Neill New York, New York 
William Walsh Yonkers, New York 
Col. Walter .T. Riley East Chicago, Indiana 
Timothy F. Sullivan Waterbury, Con. 
]. B. Ryan New York, New York 
D. A. Eister Hornell, N. Y. 
William C. Kinne Hornell, New York 
Zoltan Drosdick Hazleton, Penn. 
J. M. O'Day New York, New York 
Louis james Hackert Brooklyn, New York William J~ LoughranRockaway Beach, N.Y. 
Geo•. W. Hoerst Larchmont, N. Y. 
James 1. Curtin Meriden, Conn. 
Wm. Wurtz College ·Point, N. Y. 
John A. Byrnes New York, New York 
. George N. McDonald Waterbury, Conn. 
Dr. ,John F. Donoh~e Oyster Bay, N. Y. 
Mrs. Dorothy Van Liew 
Flyn . New York, New York 
Edward B. DuniganOakJ Park, Illinois 
F~eh:m Council, No. 749 Chicago, Illinois 
Harold D. Crotty Chicago, Illinois 
Wm. L~ Crilley Jersey City, N. J. 
Joseph McCarthy Bridgeport, Conn. 
John P. Brice . Chicago, Illinois 
A. S. Spyropoulos Chicago, Illinois. 
Dr. Joseph T. MahoneyChicago, Illinois 
E. T. Rank Oak .. Park, I~linois 
M. A. Curran· Chicago, Illinois 
Dr. M. 1: McM~hon 
Buffalo, New York 
josenh M. Byrne, Jr. ·­Newark, New 1ersey J as. B. Traynor· Staten Island, N. Y. 
Mrs. Margaret Merwin Crotin-on-Hudson, N.Y. 
J. F. Curry· New York, New York 
Alex J. MacDonald Chicago, Illinois 
Joseph L. Rafter Scranton, Pa. 
Francis P. Kenny New York, N. Y. 
George W. Kuehne Chicago, Illinois 
· James B. Lamb New York, N. Y. 
J. P. Kolina . Cleveland, Ohio 
Joseph H. Farley Chicago, Illinois Paul E. Moore New Brunswick, N. J. John L. McinerneyChicago, Ill. 
Geo. H. Kingsley, Jr. Pittsburgh, Pa. George H. Kingsley ­. Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Thomas j. McHughScranton, Pa. 
Edwin T. Burns Chicago, III. 
0. L. Callicrate Portland, Oregon 
Edward J. Rock New York, N. Y. 
Emanuel Glick New York, N. Y. 


U1tivenity of Not1·e Dame 

NC!tional Champions 

1930 Record 
Notre Dall?-e______________20; Southern Methodist ----------14 Notre Dame_____________-:26; Navy ---------------------2 Notre Dame______________20; Carnegie Te~h --------------6 
Notre Dame ______________ 35; Pittsburgh ______:_ ___________19 
Notre Dame ______________ 27; India'na. --------------------0 Notre Dame ______________ 60; Pennsylvania _.:._ _____________. 20 _ 
Notre Dame_______L ______28; Drake ---------------------7 Notre Dame ______________ l4; Northwestern --------------0 Notre Dame _____________-_ 7; Army ________________::.. __ . __ 6 
Notre Dame -------·-------27; Southern California --------0 
·1930 Coaching Staff 
Knute K. Rockne___________________ Head Coach Heartley T. Anderson ____________ Assistant Coach John E. Chevigney ______________ Assistant Coach 
John T. Vocdisch --------------Assistant Coacb Tim :Moynihan ·----------------· Assista11t Coach. \Villiam B.. Jones _______________.Fresbmm~ Coach 
H. ?\1anfrcd Vezie ________·______ Fresbmau Coach 
,. 


V ar_sity Personnel 
Thomas Conley, Captain AI Howard Bertram Metzger Roy Bailie Charles Jaskwhich Larry Mullins Martin Brill Clarence Kaplan Emmett Murphy Frank Butler Thomes Kassis John O'Brien 
Frank Carideo Frank Ke.rjes Paul O'Connor Norbert Christman Mike Koken \Villian1 Pierce Carl Cronin Edwiri Kosky John Rogers Alvin Culver Joseph Kurth Joseph Sa.voldi Richard Donoghue :Bernard Leahy Marchmont Schwartz Norman Greeney Frank Leahy Joseph Sheeketski Daniel Hanley Richard Mahoney Fred Staab James Harriss Arthur McManmon Ilobert Terlaak Frank Hoffman Ilegis McNamara George Vlk Paul Host Thomas Yarr 
-·-~ 17 ~i(.­
1 

A:; 
~ 
. 00 
9 
i 


0 
~ 
a \") 1-:j 
c 
.c i: 
~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
. I!li
·-~ !I 
li 
r1
~ 
~ 
~ 
.... I 
I ~ 
N 
...... \o 
1....1 0 
THE BqARD OF STRATEGY TIM MOYNIHAN HEAR TLEY ANDERSON KNUTE K. ROCKNE JOHN CHEVIGNEY 
JOHN VOEDISCH 
University of Notre Dame 
(( . Varsity Coaches )) )) 
}{ ;:
KNUTE K. ROCKNE }{ 
n 
I-Iead Coach == 
Everyone already knows more about efficient, genial, inspiring, brainy, hard-working, successful Coach Knute K. Rockne than he knows about himself and we cannot, in this short space, elaborate on him. 
II 
Since he started as head coach in 1917, his teams have won Ill games while losing 13, less than one a season. His 1919 and 19 2 0 teams were undefeated and were \Vestern champions; his 1924 and 1929 teams and now his 1930 eleven all had clean slates _and 
.were awarded national championships. Seldom has he dropped more than one game a season, and only once, in 1928, did his 
II

teams lose more than two. The 1928 season was called .. disastrous" when the first ~tring played almost. every minute of each of nine hard games and lost four out of nine contests with leading teams of the country. Bedfast for .all but three games last year because of a leg ailment that threatened his life, he inspired and coached his men to a national title and repeated this year with what newspapermen call the team closest to



II II
~§ perfection of any ,in history. He has taken stoically the edicts of rulemakers directed at him and has always come back defiantly to rise to greater heights. \Vhat it is that enables him to do this, we 
II 

II 
don't know. You can call it genius or whatever you wish, but we only know that it works, and probably will continue to -work for ·the future glory of Notre Dame. His record speaks for itself. 
HEARTLEY ..HUNK" ANDERSON 
Assistant Coach
u .• II

Few, if iny, know more about line play than ..Hunk" Anderson, Notre Dame's capable 1930 line coach. He played under Rockne in 1921, 1922, and 1923, and coached with him in 1925 and 1926. Then· he went to St. Louis University as head coach for 
. three years, but returned to the fold last spring. His familiarity with the Rockne style of play has enabled him to develop a varsity line that takes its place with any of the past, and a. shock troop line that .. clicked" soon enough to save the varsity many a bruise and bump. As a player, he was mentioned on a number of all-\Vestern and all­
II 

American teams, and this year his students have carried on the distinctions that were his. 
JOHN CHEVIGNEY 
Assista11t Coach 
One of the greatest defensive half-backs in Notre Dame histor·y, ..Chev" has shown himself to be as good a teacher as he was a pupil, and as one of the most promising of 
II

the multitude of the younger mentors. An excellent scout, he brought back on one occasion more plays Of the opposition, so says Coach Rockne, than Notre Dame has itself. His keen mind, unti.t:ing energy, and almost inordinate love of football make him all that a coach should be. 
II 

JOHN "IKE" VOEDISCH 
Assistant Coar:h 
Like the others, Assistant Coach ..Ike" Voedisch is a former Notre Dame star. He finished his career as an outstanding wingman three years ago and has just rounded out his third year as a producer of steady, hard-playing ends. Tall, quiet, and unassuming, he has taught his men well all the tricks of boxing ·a 'tackle, covering a punt, catching. a pass, turning in an end run, and the hundreds of details of end play. \Vith him co<"~.ch­ing, Rockne has never been without five or six capable men at the flanks. 
TOM MOYNIHAN 
Assisfa11t Coach 
II 

II 
\'\'hen .. Big Tim" was graduated last year after three years of play at center which won him national recognition, Rockne knew that there was only one man who knew the strengths and weaknesses of the candidates out to fill Tim's shoes. He was the spark­plug of the great 1929 line and he has, in his first year as a coach, not only brought out 
the best qualities of his group of ball-snappers, but instilled in them the indomitable fire 
that characterized his play.. A year's experience behind him, he. should do great things
u II ij
}{ next season when he has back his three best men, Yarr; Butler and Rogers. 
}{ 


-·:.--". .. '·'···--•.-:-•• ...c.-=-.·~--·---"-·--~--·'·-·'--~. : -·,:_c -· --~o==::---:c-=--~~-~ 
.::-::­

... -=-=-:~----=='=-"-""'~"""'­
Official Football Review-193 0 

Varsity Roster 
Years on Name Position Prep School Age Wt. -Height Squ;~d 
Abbatemareo, John_____ R. End___~----Erasmus,-Brooklyn -----------------21 175 5 ft. 11 Y2 in. 1 Agnew, Edward______.:__ Center ____ _: ____ Loyola, Chicago --'---------------21 178 6ft. 1 Aug, George ----------C~nter_ ________ Elder, Cincinnati, Ohio ----------19 190 6 ft. 1 in. 1 Bailie, Roy ____________ L. End _____: ____ Fairfax, Hollywood ·-----·--·--.... --21 173 6ft. 1 Banas, Steve ----------L. Half----------Hammond, Indiana-, High ._______ . 20 185 5 ft. 11 in. 1 Lassett, Charles ________ R. Tackle------· Stratford High ------·. ------------·20 180 6ft. 1 Beirne, Roger _________ L. End -~-------Peddie, (Fairfield) -----------·----· 19 170 6ft. 2 in. 1 Bice, Leonard ---------L. End __________Hollywood High ----------------20 172 6ft. Y2 in. 1 Bittner, Louis _________R. HalL_______ Shadyside, Ohio -----------------21 161 5 ft. 6Yl in. 1 
Blind, \Villiam ----~---R· Tackle________ St. Rita, Chicago ----------------1.9 178 6ft. 1 in. 1 
1"

' --..Bloemer, Bernie ________R. Guard··--------St. Xavier, Louisville ------------__ 21 180 5 ft. 9 in. Brancheau, Ray ________R. Half___;..______Monroe, Mich., High·----------·-· 20 180 5 ft. 11 Y2 in. 1 Brill, Martin _____.:_____~. Half_________Penn Charter -----------~-----__ 22 190 5 ft. 1 0 Y2 in. 2 Buchanan, Joseph ______L. Guard ________ St. Leo'~, Detroit_________________ 19 166 5 ft. 10 Y2 in. 1 
Burke, James ----------Q. Back ________ Sacred Heart, Pittsburgh _________ . 18 150 5 ft. 2 in. 1 Buder, Frank ---------Center_____~_..:._ Tilden Tech., Chica-go ____...: ________ 19 202 6ft. 2 i~. L Ca.pter, Albert _________ F. Back_________ Central Paterson, N. J·------~----20 185 6ft. 1 Carberry, Jack ________R. End_________ Ames, Iowa, High _____..:_ ___________ 22 175 6ft. 3 Carideo, Frank ..:_ _______ Q. Back ________ Dean, Mt. Vernon, N. Y. ________ . 22 . 175 5 ft. 7 in.· 3 
Carmody~ James _______R. Tackle------·· lylt. Carmel, Chicago----------~---20 2,00 6ft. Cavanaugh, Vincent ____ Center_________ St. Ignatius, Chicago·--------~----20 175 5 ft. 10 Y2 in. Christman, Norbert ____ Q. Back ________ East High, Green Bay _ _-____________ 21 168 5 ft. 9 Y2 in. "2 
Conley, Tom (Capt.) . __R. End:....________Roman Catholic, Philadelphia______ 22 175 5"ft. 11 in. '3 
Connolly, John -------~1. Half _________St. John's Toledo_________;______....:.20 160 5 ft. 9 in. 
-Coughlin, Tom --------L. Guard _________\Vhiting, Indiana, High-----------22 180 5 ft. 10 Y2 in. 1 Cousino, Bernard _______R. Tackle _______St. John's, Toledo--..,.-------------20 .170 6ft. 1~ Cronin, Ca.rl· ----:-------Q· Back ________ St. Rita, Chicago -------------.---21 155 5 ft. 7 in. 
Culver, Alvin _________L. Tackle ________St. Thomas, St. Paul_...:.________ . ____ 23 212 6ft. 2 Y2 in. 2 
DeVault, Howard ______ R. Tackle _______Romney, Indiana, High-----------24 214 6ft. 5 in. .1 Dilling, Leo __________R. Half_______.:._ Emerson, Gary, Indiana,___________ 22 166 5 ft. 11 in. 1 Donoghue, Richard _____R. Tackle _______Auburn, N. Y., High------------22 215 6ft._ JY4 in. 3 
·,;.~

Donovan, Robert ------Q. Back ________ Fordham Prep. ------------------18· 145 5 ft. 8 in. Foley, Milton ---------Q._ Back ________ R. E. Lee, Jacksonville----------~ 20 150 5 ft. 6 in. 1 Goldstein, Samuel ______L. Tackle _______ Marshall, Chicago __:_ __ 7 ___:_:._ ______ 21 178 5 ft. 10 in. 1 
Gorm:in, Thomas ------Center_ ________ St. Phillips, Chicago ----------:----20 194 6 ~t 1 in. 1 Greeney, Norman ------L. Guard _______ J. Marshall, Cleveland ---------··· 22 : 185 ~ 5 ft. 11 in. Grisanti, Al ___________R. End--------·· Ca.thedra~ Latin, Cleveland ______ --:-21 160 5 ft. 8 in. Hanley, Daniel __:______ F. Back ________ Butte, Montana, CentraL__________ 21 
195 6ft. 1Y2 in. Harris, James _________L. Gu1rd ·------Linsley, -Bellaire -----------------21 185 5 ft. 9 in. Herwit, Norman ______L. Gu1rd _______ Senn, Chicago ------------------20 185 5 ft. 9 in. 2. Hoffman, Frank _______R. Tackle _______St. Martin's, Seattle:. _____________ 20 
198 ·6ft. 2 in. 

1 Holman, Currier ------L. End ._________Shattuck Military, Iowa___________ 19 180 6ft. 1 
Host, Paul -----"7_------L. End ------~-LaCrosse Centr;l --------~--------20 173 5 ft. 10 in. 1 I Howard, AI __________F. Back __________ Alhambra, California, High _________ 21 
170 5 ft. 10 in. 

2 Hughen, Thomas ______L. Tackle _______ Royen, Homewood, Ill~nois --------19 190 6ft. 1 in. Jaskwhich, Charles· -----Q· Back________K.enosha, \Visconsin, High _________ 19 164 5 ft. 11 in. 
Judge, Bill __...:.~-----~--LEnd ____._____ M.anual Training, Brooklyn_· _______ 24 170 6ft.. 
Kaplan, Cla.rence -.----R. Half ________.Owatonna, Minnesota ------------23 156 5 ft. 8 in. · 2 Kassis, Tom ....,.----------L Guard ________Casper, \Vyomi~g, High --------~-20 185. 5 ft. 11 in. 3 Kerjes, FranK _________R. Guard ______Kalamazoo High -----·------------22. 
192 5ft.10in. 
1 

Kokcn, Mike ----------L-Half_______~-)outh High, Youngstown__________ 21 162 ·5 ft. 8 in. 
1 

-~~ 20 r:Jt.­
U1zive1·sity of Not1·e Dame 
VarsitY Roster-
Years on 

Name Position Prep School . Age Wt. Height 
Squad Kosky, Edwin _________ L. End---------Yonkers High -----------------20 182 5 ft. 11 ~in. 1 Kremer, Theodore _______F. Back __________\Voodsficld, .Ohio, High _________:___ 20 175 5 ft. 9 ~in. Kreuz;· Paul ____________R. Guard ---~---Menominee, Michigan, High----~~--__ 20 185 5 ft. 11 in. 1 Kurth, Joe ·--------:-----R· Tackle _______ Madison, Wisconsin, High--------23 197 6ft. 1~in. 1 LaBorne, Frank ________ L. Half_________Brooklyn Prep ------------------20 161. 5 ft. 11 in. 1 Leahy, Bernard --------L. H.alf _________ St. Mel's, Chicago ---------------22 175 5 ft. 11 in. 2 Leahy, Frank __________L. Tackle ______.:. \'\finer, S. D., High------~-------21 . 183 5 ft. 11 in. 3 Leding, Michael _______L, Tackle _______ South Bend High·--------------· 20 · 177 6ft. 1 in. 1 Loughrey, Charles ______ L. End ____:._ ____Brooklyn Prep ------------------20 185 6ft. 2 in. 1 Lukats, Nicholas ·_______ L. Half ________ Froebel, Gary --------------------19 178 6ft. Mahaffey, Thomas _____L. Guard--~----Cathedral,. Indianapolis -----------20 165 5 ft. 9.~ in. 1 Mahoney, Dick ________ R. End________ Catholic Latin, Cleveland_________.. 21 . 175 5 ft. 11 in. 1 Mangan, George ______.:...F. Back~ ________ Cathedral, Indianapolis ----------·-22 159 5 ft. 8 in. 1 Manley, John -~----~--L. Tackle-----:--Dyersville, Iowa -----------------· 21 170 6ft. 1 Massey, Robert ________ L. Guard ·-----· Bloomfield, N. J. -----------:------21 170 5 ft. 11 in. 1 McManmon, Art __ ---·. R. Tackle ________ Lowell, Mass., High __.___________ . 21 202 6ft. 2~ in. 2 McNamara, R~gis ______L. Tackle _______ .Binghampton High ______________ 22 192 6ft. 1~in. 2 Metzger, Bert _________ R, Guard __:_____Loyola Academy, Chicago -------__ 21 155 5 ft. 8~in. 3 Morrow.! Thomas ------F. Back _________ Regis, New York, N. Y.______.:... _____ 18 172 5 ft. 11 in. 1 Mortenson, Walter _____L, Tackle _______ Northern, Detroit ---------------21 188 5 ft. 11 ~in. 1 Mullins, Larry -:---------F. Back________ South Pasadena High -----------__ 22 175 6ft. 3 Murphy, Emmett ______Q. Back________ De LaS~llc, Kansas City, Mo.------.. 22 154 5 ft. 7~ in.· 1 Nichols, John ---------Q. Back-------· Lakewood, Ashville, N. Y,________ 22 155 5 ft. 7 in. 1 O'Brien, Earl ----------R. End________ Green Bay, Wis., East__~---------· 22 170 6ft. 1 O'Brien, Ed. A . .::_______Q. Back_________ De LaSalle, Chicago --------------21 172 5 ft. 10 in. 1 O'Brien, John),___·_____: L. End _________Los Angeles' High --------.------·--23 185-6ft. 2 in. 3 O'Connor, Paul ________R. Half________ East Orange, N. J.______:_________ 2I' 180 5 ft. 10 in. 3 
Pierce, William -----~--L. Guard ________ Sherman, Texas ------------------21 185 5 ft~ 8 in. 1 Rogers, John ----------Center---------Alexis, Illinois, High _________.______ 20 170 5 ft.·8 in. 1 Rohrs, George ---------R. _End--------Fordham, N. Y., Prep _____________ 18 164 5 ft. 8~in. 1 Savoldi, Jol;! ---:----------F. Back _________Three Oaks, Michigan-------------21 192 5 ft. 11 in. 3 Schumacher, AI -------L. Half _________ Shawano, \Vis., High______________ 21 168 6ft. Schwartz, Marchmont _ L. Half-~------Bay St. Louis, Mississ~ppi ----------21 170 5 ft. 11 ~in. 2 Seifert, Otto :----~-----LEnd ____.:_ ____South Bend High ---------------_ 22. 168 5 ft. 9 in. 1 Shcckctski, Joseph ------· R. Half--------Shadyside~ Ohio, High__·---------'-21 165 5 ft~ 7 in. .1 Smithers, \Villiam _..:_____L. Tackle--.,.-----Gorton, Yonkers -~-.,-------------22 195 6ft. Staa.b, Fred -----------F. Back __..:_ ______ Madison, Wisconsin, CentraL_____ :-20 178 5 ft. 11 in. Streb, Robert ________....:Q. Back--------McKinley, Canton, Ohio------~---23 175 5 ft. 1 Terlaak, Robert _____ __ R. Guard _______J. Marshall, Cleveland ------------21 180 5 ft. 10 in~ 1 5..ft. 9~ in.
Thornton, Joe·----~---· R. Tackle------· St. James, Haverill -------------·--23 182 1 Tobin, John·-----------~· Half_:._:_____~ Janesville, .Wisconsin, High·-----·-· 20 180 5 ft. 7 in. 1 Van Rooy, \Villiam ___-_L, Guard_______ Catholic Latin, Cleveland__________ 20 190 5 ft. 10~ in. 1 Vcjar, Lauric .----------Q.·Back________ Hollywood, California, High ______ 20 168 5 ft. 6~ in. 1 Vlk, George ·. -------·-· R. End_________ Holy Name, Cleveland --------:---21 175 6ft. 3 Vysral, Edward ________ R. Taclde ------·Lindblom, Chica-go ----~-------~ -· 20 215 ~ 6ft. 4 in. 1 \Vhelan, Vincent _::·:.______1... Guard---·---· Grantwood, N. J-----------------20 175 5 ft. 8 in. 1 \Vunsch, Harry .____: ____R. Gua-rd________ South Bend High-----;-----~------19 200 5 ft. 11 in. Yarr, Tom _________:.___ Centcr_____ · ____ Chinacum Prep, \Vashington ------·-21 195 \ 5 ft. 10~ in. 2 Zoss, Abc -.,------------1. Guard _______ South Bend High_________________ 20 184 5 ft. 11 in. 
Zoss, Oscar ---·-·· _____ L. Guard________ South Bend High----·------·------20. 172 5 ft. 10 in. ' 
-~f 21 r~­
'"1_ 
Official Football Review-1930 

CAPTAIN TOM CONLEY 
Right Bud · All-W'estern 

To be elected captain of a Notre Dame football team is every small boy's ambition. To be the star erid on the same team -and to lead· it through the hardest schedule in football history undefea-ted is more than even the wildest youngster dreamers visualize as their future lot. 
It was more than Tom Conley had ·ever thought of' doing when he was left tackle at Roman Catholic high school, Philadelphia. -In the first place he never thought that Coach Rockne would move him to right end, and in the second place he had his doubts that he would _ ever make the first team at Notre Dame. Even as captain and all­city tackle for his high school, the thought farthest from his mind was that some day he would be a national hero. 
The ovation he received as he trotted off the field at Los Angeles after participating in the worst drubbing Notre Dame has ever given Southern California was perhaps the greatest compliment he ever has , or ever could receive. His team had just won a national champion­ship and 90,000 persons whose hopes and prayers were all for the Trojans, rose as one to recognize his fine sportsmanship, his marve­lously consistent play, and his great spirit of leadership. _ 
Tom Conley's individual feats of splendor inay be forgotten· with the passage of time-he had defeated Southern California in. 1929 with his brilliant catches from Jack Elder's arm, he had defeated Carnegie Tech to redeem a shattered tradition at Cartier field at· the beginning of the season just closed, and he had broken into the limelight on numerous other occasions when he rose above his usual, hard, steady play to punctuate his career with brilliancy-but never will his over­whelming modesty, his friendliness, his great courage, his undying spirit, and his genial smile be forgotten as long as Notre Dame men talk about football. 
FRANK CARIDEO 
Oiwrter-bac/{ · Xll-Americau ­

Many were the responsibilities of Frank Carideo in his three years as Notre Dame's quarter-back. In 1929, with Rockne home in bed with a serious leg ailment for six of the nine games, his was the responsibility of the· great coach himself. Only superJatives can describe how he combined his striking per­sonal qualities to make himself the unanimous choice of the press of the nation for all-American honors. 
First as a field. general, his judgment in calling plays was beyond all re­proach. He made absolutely the best possible use of the greatest array of attacking weapons any team has ever had. 
The perfect rhythm and deadly blocking of Notre Dame was the marvel of all who witnessed the 1930 team. The rhythm came from Carideo's res.onant voice as it called the signals, slowly, and so deliberately that by the ti1.11e .th~ ball was snapped, the entire team was straining, every muscle tense, ready to spring. ..Twenty-three-eighteen.....;_;_forty-five-hip-one-two -\X'HAM!" His blocking was that of a battering ram and as often as not he sent two or three opposing defenders flying as he struck. . . 
His kicking was perfect. Against Northwestern and Army, in spite of-the logginess of the ball in the latter game, he sent long spirals down the field from behind his own line when a slip might have meant the. turn of the tide of bat­tle. Against Northwestern and Southern California,_ especially, his punts out of bounds within.the five-yard line on numerous occasions did much to de­moralize powerful opponents. Finally, he did all. of the kicking off for Notre Dame and missed only four points after touchdown from placement while boot­ing 27 squarely between the uprights during the 19 3 0 season. 
He could run back a punt or catch a pass with the best, and, had it been necessary, he could have thrown his share of passes. He had the mind of an honor· student, the physique of a Hercules, the leadership and. craft of a Napoleon, and the natural ability. of Frank. Carideo-there is no other with whom to compare him. 
U11iversitJ' of N ot1·e Dame 
:MARTY BRILL 
Rigbt Half 
All-\Vcster1t 

"German" in the land of the Quakers means "Pennsylvania Dutch," and that in turn means dete~mination and persistence. Marty Brill is a German from Pennsylvania a~d ·everything else still holds . 
.In 1925, as a youngster, he finished a brilliant career as a hal(-back at Penn Charter prep and went to the University of Pennsylvania. where all good Philadelphians go. He spent a year with the freshmen and went out for varsity ball. He was not exactly an overnight success and, in fact 1vas relegated to the ~econd string. One day he dropped the hint ·to his father that possibly he ought to be on the first team. His father talked with the coaches . . . just long enough to tell them that Marty would make good with the best' team in the country. 
It was a dramatic gesture and what might be called a whale of a long shot. In 1928, though, Marty was again playing freshman ball, this time with some 300 Notre Dame aspirants. Then in 1929 the gesture became more than a g~sture. Marty made good! Now it has developed that he not only made good with the best team in the country, but with the two best teams in the country. For two years running Notre Dame wo~ the riational championship and during 'those same two years young Martin Brill was an integral part of two of the greatest teams Notre Dame has ever. seen. . 
He had an indomitable spirit, the greatest evidence of which was given when_, after receiving a nerve injury in the Drake game which kept him awake for long agonizing hours and caused him to lose 10 pounds in a week, he went into the last three games of the season to give everything he had. 



MARCHMONT SCH\VARTZ 
Left Half All-American 

The Southern gentleman who teamed with Carideo of New York, Brill of Pennsylvania, Savoldi of Michigan, and Mullins of California to make Notre Dame's 1930 backfield a really cosmopolitan one, was Marchmont Schwar~z, of Bay St. Louis, Miss., whose all-around plain and fancy ability to play the great game of football made him an All-American in his second year of competitio1_1. 
lvfarchy, who is immortalizing the name of a race horse-just a second­rate plug, by the way, with a distinctive name-was to the fellows on the campus just another-quiet, refined, soft,.spoken Southern Raleigh, unobtrusive, astonishingly modest. Once in a football game, though, l}e went crazy! He hit the line, blocked, and tackled with a fierceness and abandon seldom seen in a star mainly publicized beca.use of his ability to trip lightly through an open field and to throw accurate passes over your own distance up to 50 yards. He was vicious, alniost savage.. He lived football. He played every minute of every game for all it was worth, relentlessly, giving all he had and taking everything the opposition had to offer. · 
The Rockne offense is built around ·a heady quarter-back, a smashing full-back, a blocking right half, and a swift, tricky left end. Schwartz had everything that Jimmy Crowley,·Christy Flanagan, Johnny Neimic, Jack Elder and any number of other famous Rockne left half-backs had. 
\Vhen Rockne ordered passes, Schwartz was there to put them unerringly where the moving. target should. be. If a pass was incomplete, it was invari­ably the fault of the receiver. \Vhen Rockne wanted a running attack, a word to Carideo was enough-Schwartz always came through. 
l-Ie lives football, but not to such an extent that he did not find time during the past season to make himself an honor student. He has that way of going whole-heartedly into everything he likes; he merely ignores things that he dislikes or things that do not interest hirri and they never bother him.. To millions of people last fall, all that mattered w:is that he liked football. He will continue to show his yen for the pigskin next year when he startles the football world further with his brilliant exploits. 
-·-:af z3 t?­

_\_ 
~-'~-~~--·~ ~-~-= 
C-0"--~~--~.~ 
t 
Official Football Review-1930 
LARRY MULLINS 
Full-bac/{ 

"They're lining up for the kick-off. Notre Dame is leading, 13 to. 0, and they're starting the second half now. Rockne has sent Mullins in at full-back with the varsity." Then, a play later: "There goes a substitute. It's O'Connor~ Mullins is coming out. I wonder what Rockne was thinking of." It was a radio broadcast of the Southern California game in Los Angeles. 
And Rockne was thinking of a gallant, rough and ready lad, who with a chance to save himself and star before a rabid 90,QOO crowd of his home town fans who wanted to see him play, ·had given ·his all the week before in the cold, mud, and icc of Soldier (Field so that Notre Dame might win ·in its traditional game with Army. Half-crazy with pain from a knee which had been injured and injured again for two years, Larry Mullins had stuck it out against Army to keep his team in the ball game until fate might decree victory. \Vith thousands waiting to hail him, with writers waiting to' scream his praises from eight-column streamers, he had put his last ounce of courage, his last bit of energy into as gallant a game of football as has ever been seen. 
His one minute of play a-gainst the one team he wanted to play against closed his Notre Dame career. He had been battered so badly that he scarcely could walk to his position for that one pathetic gesture which spoke volumes. There was none of the "I'm-doing-my-best-but-it's-killing-~e" attitude about Larry. Not even his team-mates knew the pain he was in when he climaxed his glorious career in the Army game._ Doctors were astounded after the game that he had been able to stay in at all. 
Now he has gone, not with any especially dazzling record of performances left behind him, but with the respect and admiration of the thousands who knew him as -a real "Fighting Irishman." 
BERT METZGER 
Rigbt Guard Ali-Americau 

One hundred and fifty-three pounds of, dynamite was little Bert Metzger, the lightest All-American guard in history. He came to Notre Dame four years ago and went out for freshman football. The -:oaches ,told him he was too small and he was dropped_ from the squad. But he went to Rockne himself and told him, "I may be small, but I can fight and I want at least a chance out there." 
So he was given his opportunity and he went up to the varsity squad his second year as a third or fourth string man. In 1929, his colorful playing had won him a place under Capt. John La.w with the shock-troops ... Even smaller than Law, one of Rockne's most famous "watch-charm" guards," Bert went to the varsity at the ·beginning of the-past season. His ability was recognized, but it was thought that his small, slight build would be crushed to pieces before mid-seaon. 
Instead, Bert outplayed some of the outstanding linemen of the country, older, heavier, more experienced men who had won great reputations._ Almost every team Notre Dame met sent its crashing full-backs over the center of the line in an effort to wear out this dynamic little warrior, and all of them failed. After playing to a standstill All-American \Y/oodworth ._of Northwestern, Metzger showed Capt. Humber of Army.how to play guard, and went on to close his career in a blaze of glory against Baker of Southern California, another prominent mythical team chbice. 
He had a fighting heart and didn't know the meaning of pain. Accountable for _his great success was his quick, clear head and versatiliy which enabled him time and again to outsmart first-rate linemen who weighed well over the 200-pound mark. He, too, has finished his time at Notre Dame, but his name will go down · with the Clipper Smiths, the Cannons, and the Laws as perhaps tlr1 greatest product of that great school of "watch-charms." 
-·~1 24r:fo-~ 



_U11ive1·sity of Not1·e Dan.ze 
TOM KASSIS 
Left Guard 

Probably better known·· to ·the folk of Casper, \Vyo., as a rather impressive Casper high school center, Tom Kassis finished a brilliant career as a left guard at Notre Dame with the close of the past season. 
Playing center his sophomore year under two such bulwarks of offense and defense as Tim Moynihan and Joe Nash, Tom didn't get very far, but 1929 found a comparative ~hortage of guards and Rockne realized tha.t the talents of this aggressive 185-pound prospect should not be wasted with the third or fourth team. Ka~sis adjusted himself to the change from center to guard with remarkable swiftness and in the opening game with Indiana that year, he drew his first attention when he made three or four spectacular tackles behind the line of scrimmage. In spite of a chronic sprained ankle that season, Tom stuck it out under Jack Cannon and he was graduated to the varsity last season after proving himself one of the smartest defensive men in the game and as good a blocker as Notre Dame has ever seen. 
Again, his path was beset with injuries, but he shook them off doggedly and turned in the same brilliant brand of play that had characterized those who had made football history before him. The usual thing with him was to be taken off the field one week in intense pain, almost given up for lost, rested for a week, and. sent back into the next game heavily taped but as effective as ever. ·In· the Southern Methodist game a gash, four or five inches long, was torn above his eye when he collided head-on with an opponent, and, even though the cut required three stitches to mend, he had to be literally dragged off the field before he would 
· leave the game. Such spirit as his was bound to have its reward, and, while he was overlooked by the star-hunting mythical team pickers, we give you Rockne's word that Tom Kassis was one of the smartest, .. fightingest," best all-around guards that ever dug his cleats into the sod of Car.tier field. 
·TOMMY YARR 
Center 

In 1929, playing with the third string against North­western, as an understudy to Big Tim Moynihan and Joe Nash, Tommy Yarr made one bad pass-he let fly with a 20-yard snap tha.t later enabled Northwestern to score, its only touchdown. of the day. Since it was the \Vildcats' only score of an afternoon which saw Notre Dame roll up 26 points, the· pass got publicity which it seemed could never be lived down. 
Big Tim and Joe went their way in June and Tommy was all that Rockne had left so he went to the varsity. Many were dubious. They said it would be better to take a chance with a Sophomore. 
But seldom does Rockne misjudge .a player, or anyone else for that matter, and he knew thit Tommy Yarr had the stuff that makes for grea.tness. Y arr's great play in the season just past more than justified the responsibility Rockne placed upon his broad shoulders. 
In many a game, Notre Dame was pressed deep into its own territory and Carideo had to kick from behind his own goal line, but did Yarr falter and get off to a bad pass? Did he on any occasion miss a signal and pass the ball to the wrong back or did he ever fail to have just the right speed and direction on the ball? Not to our knowledge. · He made an unusual number of tackles on punts after slipping a well-placed spiral into the outstretched hands of Carideo. Perhaps his most noticeable talent was that of intercepting passes, and, in his first game with the varsity, he made three interceptions when a completed pass would have meant a tic or defeat. 
\Vith another year to go, Tommy should add further glory to an already illustrious record. 
-·~{ 25 r)­



... 
. I 


0/ficia_l Football Review-1930 
JOE SAVOLDI Fu/1-bac/{ . 

One of the most brilliant and colorful stars in . Notre Dame football history, an offensive power house, and. a defensive wall personified, passed out of Notre Dame football history with the close of the 1930 season. ·· 
His name i~ Joe Savoldi and he came to Notre Dame from Three Oaks, Mich., unknown, unheralded. He was boni. in a small town ncar Milan, Italy, and came to America with his mother and father at the age of· 13. . Ht: had played the games the Italian child:en played when he was in grade school, but football was all new to htm.' At Three Oaks high school, he went out with the rest of the boys and played, untutored. but willing, and developed into a smashing, 
devastating full-back. \Vhen he came to Notre Dame in 1927, Freshman coaches were amazed at his splendid physique-some 200 ·pounds of muscle-and his grca t speed. Hs lack of high school coaching was, however, no small obstacle to him. His natural ability was recognized, but when he 'went out for varsity ball his second year, he was relegated to the reserves. To learn the intricacies of the complicated Rockne offense and the maze of assignments to be remembered on defense against the best teams of the nation in one season was more than could_ be expected of any man. · In 1929, though, Joe came into his own with his bruising rushes · through the line and his brilliant open field running. In the se~son. just closed, he covered himself with glory from the first game agamst Southern Methodist when he countered the Mustangs' first touchdown· with a. 97-yard return of the ensuing kickoff. Against Na.vy, he scored three times. . It was that way in every game in which he played. He did not a.lwa.ys score, but never did he fa.il. to get a.wa.y for great gains and 
never was a. pass completed in his territory. 
The story of how Joe Savoldi came to Notre Dame from no:vherc, without anything, and made himself the most feared back of h!s two years with the_ varsity, is one that will be told and retold m the 
years to come. 

AL CULVER . Left Taclde If Al Culver has any fault, it is that of being too methodicaL The words 
:fiery, colorful, brilliant, a.nd outstanding do not apply to him; the newspapers never carried a line about his great fighting heart and he never said a word himself concerning .the fact that he was a Notre Dame varsity football player. 
Both at practices and in games, he merely lined up with the rest of the team, shifted the right wa.y, seemed to walk through the opposing line, made his tackle if he were anywhere near the play, rather if the play were anywher.:! ne~r him, and then got up and walked back to his position to wait for the next play. On offense, he was much the same; he did his blocking exactly, cleanly, 
· decisively, never missed a play, never missed his man. 
In 1929 he had played with the shock troops and had gone· through an entire season with scarcely a bit of mention, but he didn't seem to mind. Last season, he was again slated for the second team, but Frank Leahy was ·hurt and he went to the varsity; again, it didn't seem to make much difference to him. 
Alwa.ys there was an air of mystery about him, the mystery of silence. To those who knew him, though, this silence was easily explainable. He simply had the ability to mask his emotions, to cover up with apparent placidity the surging of his great competitive spirit, a. spirit that carried him through the most rigorous campaign in football history with perhaps the greatest team in history. 
His play speaks for itself. He stopped everything sent his way by ten first­·class opponents, he opened wide holes for the backs, and his sturdy 210 pounds withstood every shock of ten gruelling games without showing the least out­ward-evidence. 
Behind his mask of silence, his intimates knew there was a friendly, serious man; and coaches knew that in AI Culver they had perhaps the most dependable man. on the squad. What won't he do, we ask, in his one remaining year of competition? 



U1Zive1·sit)' of Notre Dame 
ED KOSKY 
·Left Bud 

Quiet, friendly, and serene, Ed Kosky would never strike anyone as being a football player, especially a Notre Dame varsity football player, but it's no secret that when he got into a game he was an entirely dif­ferent person, that he was transformed into· a fighting, determined, dog·ged tackler and blocker. 
Before the season just closed, Ed had spent a year with the reserves where it was thought he would stay the rest of his time· a.t Notre Dame.· His play was not especially brilliant and there was nothing about him that would cause the casual observer .to stop and single him ·out of a group of some 15 or 20 other ends dashing up and down the field pick­ing off passes. \Xfhcn John Col~ick and Ed. Collins were graduated last June, though, Rockne looked about and it took his trained eye less time than it takes Floyd Gibbons to say ..Jack Robinson" to light on Kosky's tall figure. 
Playing with the varsity during the past campaign, Kosky proved 
himself to be a clever pass receiver, a deadly tackler and blocker, ami, 
strange as it may seem for an end, a capable ball-lugger. Rockne de­
veloped an end-around play on which the left end takes the ball from 
the left half ori a spinner ·and cuts through outside the right tackle. It .was on this formation that Ed earned his reputation as ball-carrier. 
Since he has two more years of competition, Kosky should, by all that is logical, develop into one of Notre Dame's greatest stars. 



DICK DONOGHUE 
Rigbi Taclde 

Oppressed. from the very beginning of the season by an· injury jinx, .. Big Dick" Donoghue nevertheless carried ori with a dogged spirit which won him the respect of all with whom he came in contact.· 
He was alternate varsity right ta~klc with Frank Leahy during the 1929 season, but the graduation of Ted Twomey left a hole at left tackle to be filled and Frank Leahy was moved to this position. It seemed that Dick had finally come into the right that was his because of two years of splendid line play. · 
He went in with the varsity in the opening game with Southern 
· Methodist, but, before the game was through the third quarter, he was carried. from the field with what was at first thought to be a sprained ankle. No swelling set in and doctors were puzzled at first about his hurt; subsequent examination, however, showed that he had received a torturing injury to the joint in his ankle, peculiar in that there was !10 outward evidence of tl~e harm done. 
It was weeks before he was able to rejoin the squad and~ when he did, he was siowcd up by the injury so much that he was never able to regain his place with the first string. On the occasions when he did play, he gave excellent account of his ideal physique and his two years' previous experience. He was aggressive and exceptionally fast 
for a 200-odd pound man, and he knew all there was to know about his position. 
He has finish~d his career at Notre Dame and, although his name docs not appear with those of the great, he will always be remembered as one good tackle and a man who gave all he had for his school. 
-·~~ 27 ~··­
·--... 
Official Football Review-1930 

JOE KURTH 
Right Tackle 

One of the problems confronting Coach Rockne at the beginning of the season was that of finding an experienced man for the position of left tackle. Inasmuch as two· veterans who had battled throughout the 1929 season for the call at right tackle, Dick Donoghue and Frank Leahy, were still on the squad, the natural solution of the tackle problem seemed to be to shift one of these two to the other side of the line. Leahy was thus shifted, and the tackle posts were in the hands of experienced workmen. 
This arrangement was seriously interfered with when Donoghue, in the opening game, incurred the painful injury which was to slow up his play for the rest of the season. This left an unexpected gap in the line, and Rockne inserted Joe Kurth, a sophomore, into the opening. 
Kurth evidently realized tha.t favor.able first impressions are usually a good thing to make, for from the start he displayed a brand .of football that was highly satisfactory. The feature of his Notre Dame debut was his vicious tackle of Mason, Southern Methodist star. Even old timers, such as ucap" Edwards, said that this t~ckle was one of the hardest th7y had ever seen. 
\'{!hile Kurth's lack of experience naturally made him appear a bit unpolished in some departments of the game, he rapidly acquired tlie finer points which come only with active and strenuous competition. Rockne noticed some mistakes in his playing, but said that the former East Madison star never made the same-mistake twice. The combination of his newly-acquired experience_ with his natural ability and great physique made him an ideal occupant of the right tackle post, and he . held this position for the rest of the season. They have already bugun to COfl"!.pare the 197-pound Wisconsin lad with Ted Twomey, 1929 ace, and the ((little Brute" still has two~years of competition! 
MIKE KOKEN 
Left ·Half 

Koken was the smallest of the candidates for the left half-back position, .but his superior speed kept him very much in the running at all times. 
Built along almost identical proportions as Jack Elder, the scrappy Youngs­
town ball-carrier resembled the Kentucky flash in more ways than one. In 
addition to their mutual fleetness, Mike also possessed a good share of Elder's 
skill as a passer. 
I 

Mike performed with regularity during the season as a member of. the shock-troops. His presence on the field always was a. threat ~o the opposition, for his size and speed made him unusually elusive. Koken is one oCthose players who are guided largely by football instinct, and many of his ball­carrying activities are almost second-nature to him. 
Koken's best performances were against Pittsburgh ana Pennsylvania. In the Pitt game, he crashed over from· the five-yard line for a touchdown, while by, means of a sligh~ly longer goal ward dash he gained six of the sixty points scored against Penn. The Ohio boy also gave a good account of himself in the Drake encounter. . · . 
The fact that Koke,n is .smali does not detract from the ·fact tha.t he is also tough.. His defensive play was featured by his hard-hitting bullet-like, tackling. Along with the other shock-troop backs, he took considerable puni~hment but was never injured. Mike is another of the boys who have two more years to fight for the Blue and Gold, and should accomplish big things before his career. is ended. 



U1zive1·sity of Not1·e Da11le 
PAUL O'CONNOR 
Right Half-:back 

The supreme test for any athlete is to come through when the competition is really crucial. Paul· (Bucky) O'Connor closed his grid career by meeting the .most crucial of tests in a. manner that brought glory to himself and to his university. 
\'V'hen the team was enroute to Los Angeles for the all-important Southern Calfornia game, it became evident that an injury would prevent Larry Mullins from carrying on in the full-back position. Accordingly, in the two-day stopover in Tucson, Coach Rockne deci~ed to convert Bucky into a full-back. In the two days tha.t followed, O'Connor had to forget the signals and the shift which had become almost mechanical to him as a right half-back, and he had to learn the intricacies of the full-back position. 
· In addition to the extreme difficulties which came up in handling his new post, Bucky was under ·a severe mental strain. It is glorious football history, however, how he carried on for Mullins, his bosom friend, in the titanic grid epic and emerged as the star of the game. His brilliant 80-yard run gave the Irish their second. touchdown of the· day, arid again in the third period he crossed the Trojan goal after taking a lateral pass and running 7 yards. 
Previous to his big day on the coast, Bucky had served three faithful years on the shock troops, and he was an ideal understudy to Marty Brill. One of the fastest men on the squad, he gave one of the best exhibitions of this speed against Penn when he galloped 60 yards for a touchdown. 
O'Connor's name would. have lived at Notre Dame as a steady, dependable, and thoroughly capable athlete even without his sensa­tional "swan song." As it was, the final burst of brilliance merely clinched his claim to stardom. 



FRANK LEAHY 
Left Taclde 

The story of Frank Leahy's football career at Notre Dame is the story of a great struggle against handicaps that in the end proved to be over­whelming. Before the 1929 season opened he suffered a shoulder injury that forced him out of action for part of the year and slowed him up for the rest of the. season. He ·resumed play before this injury was entirely healed, only to suffer a severely sprained ankle. Despite these discourag­ing setbacks, the end of the season found the good-natured Dakota Irish­man ~ack in his regular post playing his usual high-grade brand of ball. 
Leahy returned last September and was slated for ·a regular job on the varsity. For once in his career he was free from injuries, and in the prac­tic~s before the Southern Methodist battle he di$played great. form. \'V'hen it seemed that at last he was to have an opportunity to shake misfortune and shpw his true ability, another of life's little tragedies befell him. In making a long, diving tackle over the prostrate forms of two of his var­sity mates, Leahy injured a membrane on his leg, the ailment known as ''periostitis" set in, and he took another involuntary vacation: 
He rejoined the squad during the week-before the Drake game and during the next two weeks made a last, pathetic effort to thwart the adverse odds. This attempt was marked by the same dogged courage which kept him in the game last year, but this time Frank was forced to admit defeat. Use of his injured leg caused a recurrence of his.trouble, and brought to a close the career of one of Notre Dame's "fightingest" and most unlucky stars. · 
-~29~­
·-­


Official Football Review-1930 
DAN HANLEY 
Full-bacl?. 

The Drake game has come to have a somewhat symboli­cal significance on, the Irish schedule, as new stars have a way ot appearing in the games against the Iowa· outfit. Jack Elder and Larry (Moon) Mullins both attracted no­tice for the first time in Drake games, while in the most recent game of the series Da~. Hanley served notice upon the sporting world that he is a star in the making. 
Midway in the season it became apparent that Rockne was going to need an extra full-back for the four hard games remaining. He put Hanley into the Drake game and the "Butte Beauty" soon made a flashy 20-yard run; after it had been called b:ick and a penalty inflicted, he scooted 32 yards fo~ the first score of the game. In ~he closing minutes, he took the oval for an SO-yard nde after several shorter. gains. 
The Montana flash showed the same high-powered, l~ard-:drivng tactics when he relieved Mullins and O'Connor in the Northwestern, Army, and Southern California games. He crashed over for Notre Dame's second touchdown against the Purple. His chief asset is his tremendous power which enables him to keep his feet when apparently downed. He carries pis 195. poun-ds with the speed of a half-back and his defensive work is up to all the standards of his brilliant offensive performance.:;. 
Barring the unforeseen,, he will star with the varsity next year and in 1932. ­
CLARENCE KAPLAN 
Right Half 

A great little ball player who would have been a regular and a star on almost any other team in the country-that's Clarence (Kap) Kaplan. This fleet­footed Minnesota prospect had a world of talent but was somewhat a victim of the circumstances at Notre Dame. "The circumstances" were that in Marty Brill and ~'Bucky" O'Connor, Coach Rockne had two high-powered right halfs whose strength and ability simply were not to be denied. Furthermore, Kap's 155 pounds were not quite enough to carry the heavy burden which is placed upon "the right half in the Notre Dame system. 
In spite of these handicaps, Kaplan demonstrated beyond any doubt that his speed and skill entitled him to play a leading role in the Notre Dame attack. In his sophomore year, he saw plenty of action and distinguished hims~f against Indiana, \'\Tisconsin, and Southern California. In the. closing moments of the latter game, he knocked down a pass that otherwise might have ·brouglu victory to the lads from the West coast. ' ~ ~ · 
During the past season, Kap's best game was against the Navy. In two con­secutive plays the Minnesota flash carried the ball a total of 71 yards and put his mates in position to score. He also won the favorable conin1ent of Coach "Pop" \'{!arner of Stanford for his brilliant play against U; S. C. 
All in all, Mr. Kaplan's career has been one of splendid achievement made against odds. Long will· the memory of his deer-like dashes through, around, and away from larger, ·more publici~ed defenders be remembered at Notre Dame. 


-·~~ 3o r~·-•• 
U11iversity of Notre Dame 
JOHN O'BRIEN · Left Eud 

The play which made .Johnny O'Brien famous, the one in which he caught a pass to score the winning touchdown against Army in 1928, proved later to be a handicap to him. After that, whenever the smiling Californian was put into the game the fans remembered his immortal feat and expected him to duplicate its brilliance. In always looking for the spectacular in his work, they often over­looked the quiet, capable football he played. 
O'Brien's greatest asset, of course, was his speed. Captain of the track team and a championship hurdler, Johnny used. his agility to advantage on the chalk­lined turf equally as well as he did on the cinders. Primarily he was an offensive threat, partly because of this speed and partly because it was second nature for him to grab passes. 
That he also had more than average defensive ability was shown chiefly in the 1930 campaign. In almost every game in which he played, Johnny broke through, and threw opposing ball carriers for telling losses. He turned in an especially tight defensive exhibition in the Northwestern struggle. 
\Vhen an athlete achieves undying fame in one sport and earns a captainship in another, there's only one answer-such success is the result of extraordinary ability. O'Brien will be remembered at Notre Dame, not as a (tone-play" or even (tone-sport" athlete, but as one of the best all-around athletes .to wear the Blue and Gold in· recent years. 



FRANK BUTLER 
Ceuter 

\Vhen Coach Rockne began lookipg around for a suc­cessor to Tim Moynihan, the figure of Frank Bu.tler loomed up~ From the standpoint of size, Butler's six feet two inches and 202 pounds made him the outstanding candidate. Moreover, the former Tilden Tech star proved that he did not fall into the category of -linemen who are merely big. 
Buder played the bruising type of football which is so 
devastating to the center of an opposing line. He used his 
natural power and drive to advantage, and handled his 
size remarkably well. Gifted with a huge pair of hands, . he learned to wield them to get the desired results. 
The Chicagoan was one of the hardest tacklers on the squad. In addition, he showed a well-developed ability to diagnosing plays and an ability to break them up once he had gauged them. On offense, his passing was con­sistently accurate. 
Butler gained much valuable experience during the sea­son, and will be a leading candidate in the battle to un­derstudy or to replace Y arr on the 19 31 aggregation. \Vith his natural advantages and the skill and experience which he has acquired, this powerful pivot man should dis­. tinguish himself in his two more seasons of competition. 
-·~f 31 }:}·­


Official Football Review-1930 
JAMES HARRISS Left .Guard 


Although 1930 was Harriss' first year with the varsity squad, he proved himself a worthy understudy to Tom Kassis of the va.rsity and practically a certain starter with next year's first string at left guard. The vigorous and .heady play displayed by him in his inititation to ubig time" football, and the experi­ence he gained in games during the past season should place him in front next season. 
Although he was not flashy, he raised havoc among the oppo­sition, when given a chance, both with his terrific blocking on end runs and his-ability to smash through on defense to nip plays in ~he bud. Seldom was he taken out of a play and this fact may be laid to his bull-dog spirit and aggressive charging .. 
His 185 pounds cemented a forward ·wall that was impreg-:­nable before the rushes of such ·stars as uBull" Karcis of Carnegie Tech, Hood of Pitt, Brubaker of Indiana., and Van Koten of Drake, to mention only a few. The phrase, uunusually fast for his weight" has. been used over and over until ·it has lost much of its original force, but ·it applies more to no one, perhaps than to this p,udgy lad. To appreciate this, one has. only to see him pull out of his position and knock an end flying before a ten­second back-field has had time to reach the line of scrimmage. 
A monogram in one's. sophomore' year is a rare distinction in­deed and it usually indicates thatits proud owner will go places in his _remaining two years of competition. 
GEORGE VLK 
Right E11d 

\W'hen a coach has one experienced, fighting right end he is well satis­fied; when he has a substitute for that position who possesses sufficient' ability to make the squad two consecutive years, his satisfaction ap­proaches elation. George Vlk, although the term usul]stitute" harly applies, was this year's cause for Rockne's high spirits concerning the right end position. 
Vlk has all the qualities of an end demanded by Rockne. He has fight, necessarily, and an uncanny way of sensing the direction of the opposi­tions' onslaughts, which enables him to be at the point of attack in time to smash the play. His prowess on defense is accepted by those who have witnessed him time a.nd again turri end runs in, or break through the interference and throw the runner. •On offense he is tireless in blocking out tackles and racing down the field after punts. Every minute he plays is characterized by intense fighting that serves to demoralize the spirit of the opposition, and it is his stamina. to withstand the smashes of opponents and yet fulfill his duties as an end that has placed and kept him in his position with the shock troops. 
. An interesting feature of this year's race ·for the right end position wa.s ·that Vlk and Dick Mahoney, who also aspired for Tom Conley's place, both hail from Cleveland, Ohio, the former from Holy N arne, and the latter from Cathedral Latin. Their rivalry of high school days assumed a more friendly nature, naturally, in their struggle for a berth on the regular squad. 
-·~132 }~-­


U1ziversity of ·Not1·e Dame 
ROBERT TERLAAK 
Right Guard 

Although Bob ·rerlaak is scarcely a guard of uwatch charm" proportions, since he weighs some 180 pounds, he nevertheless seems destined to carry on the traditions which the uwatch­charm" school of guards have.established at Notre Dame. Being Bert Metzger's understudy during the past season has given Terlaak an opportunity to observe one of the greatest of that group in action. 
'Terlaak was one of the most dependable men on the shock­troops. This was so largely because he was smarter than some of the other inexperienced men on the reserves. Terlaak could be relied upon to play alert, uheads-up" ball every minute of the time he was _on the field. 
His work was featured by the abundance of ufight" which he injected into it. He had the power and the drive so neces­sary for every good guard, and with these qualities he com­bined a scrappiness which made him an· extremely stubborn man for opponents to handle. 
The Cleveland product is another of the men who played their first season on the team this year. If he fulfills the promise which his work has aroused, he will be an unusually valuable lineman and an important cog in the ·next two Rockne machines. 



CHARLES JASK\X'HICH 
Quarter-back 

Although Charlie Jaskwhich had had no previous varsity _experience, Coach Rockne used him with regularity from the beginning of the season. By so doing, uRock" expressed not only his confidence in Jaskwhich's present ability, but also faith in his possibilities for development as a quarter-back; Jaskwhich displayed talents which justified the opportunity which had -been given him. 
The Kenosha boy kept the Blue and Gold machine functioning smoothly at all times when he was its pilot, and contributed a. brand of individual play which did much to help along he cause. His judgment was sound, and -his decisions were generally confirmed by favorable results. · 
H JaskF"hich excelled at any one phrase of the game, that department was probably punting. He did a good share of all the punting which was done during the season, and during that time got only one or two poor kicks. On several occasions he came through with punts of remarkable yardage, and he .could be depended upon to send the ball a good averge distance down the field. 
Jaskwhich's greatest handicap appeare-d to-be a lack of self-confidence. He lacked the assurance which marks the difference between stardom and medioc­rity. This failing, however, comes entirely from inexperience and sho1-1ld be overcome in the two more seasnns that remain for the \X'isconsin lad. The best part of-his career is yet to come.. 
"'"·~~ 33 }~·­

! !. 
Official Football Review-1930 
FRANK HOFFMAN 
Left '[ackle 


Football fiction contains ·many a story about the lad who had 
never played football in high school and who made good in a big . way when he went out for the college team. Such is sometimes the case in real life, but it is seldom if ever that it occurs when the team in question has the high ranking that Notre Dame has. Frank (Nordy) Hoffman, however, is emulating the hero in the story­
books, and, what is more, is doing it at Notre Dame. 
\Vhen Hoffman went to high school out in Seattle, he never went in for the gridiron pastime; Corning to Notre Dame, how­eve!', he followed the line of least resistance and reported for the team. \Vhen the coaches got a look at Nerdy's build (weight: 198; height: six feet, two inches) it is easy to understand why ·they gave him plenty of encoura.gernent in his new venture. 
Hoffman spent the 1929 season familiarizing himself with the game, and acquiring as much experience as possible. Then when last season started, Rockne gave him a chance in the varsity games and Nordy carne through in great shape. Big and aggressive, he was naturally :fitted for the game. From week to week, as the little crudities in his play w.ere smoothed out by experience, Hoffman acquired ~ finesse that added greatly to his style of play.. 
\Vith this added season. of experience, Hoffman is· now all' set to accomplish really big things in the one remaining year of com­petition which he has. And when he does, the old .crack about truth being stranger than :fic"tion will ha.ve held true in regard to football. 
BERNARD LEAHY 
Left Half 

One thing kept Bernie Leahy from being· a great star at Notre Dame. He had everything a half-back needed: triple-threat talent, courage, good physique, and a great football mind, and . still he. never quite carne through. The one fatal failing was a persistent over-anxiousness which he cou~d not shake. 
In practice sessions, Bernie was nothing short of brilliant.. He dis­played the highly developed sense of rhythm, the·,:finesse, and-the polish which set off the star from the average ball player. His was the super­technique of the All-American. He won the support of his coach and his team-mates. He had the enthusiastic backing of the students. Every­one wanted to see his talents crowned with success, but when under fire his old over-anxiousness returned to nullify his efforts. When he should have been cool and relaxed he was on edge and tightened up with the zeal to come through. 
. The season has closed. His career has ended with his genius unrealized arid unrewarded-but not unappreciated,: for all true followers of the team have hailed him as one of the greatest halfs in Notre Dame history. 



U1ziversit;y of Not1·e Dame 
ALHOWARD 
Full-back 

Al Howard is another of California's contributions to Notre Dame athletics. Like Larry Mullins, another member of the California colony, Howard went out for full-back upon his arrival at Notre Dame, and won his monogram at that position. The Alhambra boy was also like Mullins in that both won monograms the first year that they sa~ varsity service. 
Never a flashy full-back, Howard played a steady, well-balanced game. He appeared in four of the games in the 1929 campaign and distinguished himself by his determination and scrappiness. AI proved himself to be a. hard-working athlete who could ·always be counted upon .to give everything he had to hk work. 
During the past season, Bowar~ suffered from the unusually. stiff competition ' which he had. In Mullins and Savoldi Coach Rockne had two of the most capable. full-backs in the country, while Hanley was close behind thc!TI. 
As a full-back, Howard was naturally handicapped by his lightness. He lacked the weight and power necessary for effective plunging.· This was some­what overbalanced by his dependable blocking, his hard tackling, and his defensive play against passe~. 
During the past season, Howard performed against· Southern Methodist, Indiana, Pittsburgh, Navy, and Carnegie Tech. He started· the game against the Annapolis lads, and looked his best in that contest. 



PAUL HOST 
Left Emf 

Although Host had had no varsity experience previous to the past season, his work then stamped him as one of the best all­around ends on the squad. The former LaCrosse High star proved himself to be proficient in every department of end-play. In addition, he seemed to be naturally fitted for the pos_ition which he elected to play. 
In the matter of foot-work, which is all-important to the end, Host is said to excel every flank-man that Notre Dame has had in recent yca.rs. Host used his feet in such a way that it was extremely difficult to block him out of a play. He was a master of the "floating" technique in end-play. 
Naturally a fast man, Host learned how to usc his s.peed to best advantage on pass and punt plays. In this connection, he developed into a valuable pass-receiver and became an offen­sive threat as well as a skilled defensive player. 
Host was a sure tackler, and was better than the average end in the matter of blocking. In addition, his work in leading ·inter­ference was highly efficient. On the whole, the \Visconsin prod­uct was one of the most consistent men on the squad. 
Host is one of the most promising prospect's which ..Rock" has to work with, and is especially so inasmuch as he has two more years of competition.. He will sec plenty of action next year. 
-·~:f 3 5 r~-·­
Official Football Review-1930 

JOHN ROGERS 
·Center 
Rogers was another of the second year men who saw considerable action during the season. When­ever called upon to handle the pivot position, Rogers came through with a smart, consistent exhibition of center-play. He is an Alexis, Illinois, product. 
Somewhat shorter. than the usual Notre Dame center, Rogers was heavy enough, weighing 170 pounds, but he was only five feet, eight inches in height. His size proved to be a handicap, for all of his competitors for the center position were much larger than he. · 
The Illinois lad was a master of the fundamentals of his position. His accurate passing left nothing to be desired in that department of his game, and he was well-versed in the art of blocking. His play was characterized by his alertness and aggressiveness, and his scrappiness made up for his smaller size. 
Defensive line-play presents special intricacies for the center, but Rogers handled himself well and proved himself to be a reliable defender of t~e post. 
In the battle for positions on the 1931 varsity, there will be a wide-open contest for the center job. Rogers, with a year of experience to his credit, ·will be a leading candidate for that position. He has two more years of eligibility. · 
ART McMANMON 
Rigbt T acMe 

\'V'hereas the average weight of the line candidates on the squad approximated 182 pounds, Art McManmon weighed 202 pounds. This, _ combined with the fact that he was 6 feet, 2 Yz inches in height, gave him a great natural advantage in his quest for a line job. His efforts were ·inspired by the record that his brother, one of the greatest of Notre Dame tackles, had made. But there was more to qualify Art for varsity service than merely his size and his athletic background. 
It is no mere figure of speech to say that McManmon w:as-·a tower of strength on the line. Time after time his work checked enemy ball­carriers at the line of scrimmage. His playing was featured by an agility and aggressiveness tha.t is so often lacking in men of his size. 
On the offense, the Massachusetts boy fitted in well with the team-play of his mates. His size and power were instrumental in op_ening many gaps through which long gains were made. 
The tackle strength of the squad last season was such that McManmon was not used as much as he naturally would have been. \'V'henever he was on the field handling the right tackle post, however, Art came through with the brand of football which has come to be associated with Notre Dame. 
Since most of McManmon' s work was performed on the .shock troops, he has battled more or less .. behind the scenes." All followers of the team, however, realize the worth of his efforts and set a deservedly high value upon his services. 


-·~ 36 r:JE-­
U1zive1·sity of Notre Dame 
CARL CRONIN 
Quarter-back 

To play the quarter-back position as Knute Rockne wants it to be played is one of the toughest tasks in football, but Carl Cronip. demonstrated early in the seas'on that he was capable of handling the assignment. The stubby 155-pound Chicagoan refused to allow his size to handicap him, and fought his way upward in. the ranks of the signal-callers until he had clinched the post on the shock-troops. 
His play during the season was distinguished by a smartness unusual even in quarter-backs. His judgment in calling plays was marked by strategy and a generous allotment of good football sense. · -· 
Cronin made his debut to big time football in the Northwestern game of 1929, and lost no time in uncovering one of his greatest talents-his skill as a punter. Several times in the closing minutes of the game when Notre Dame was deep in its own territory, Cronin coolly booted long spirals to put his tea~ out of danger. 
In eve~y g·ame in which he appeared during the past. season, Cronin exhibited this kicking ability. He is also an accurate drop-kicker, but is rarely given the opportunity to exercise this talent except to add points after touchdowns. Add to the capabilities already mentioned his dependabil­ity as a passer, and the picture of this brainy little field. general is complete. 



DICK MAHONEY 
Rigbt Bud 

Dick Mahoney, playing his first season on the team, wound up the year as understudy to Captain Conley him­self. Few of the capable group of sophomores, whose work was a feature of the past season, showed more promise than did this former Cathedral Latin star. His career has had a fine beginning,. and with two more years of competition he should be able to establish himself as one of the best ends in Notre Dame history. 
Rather than being especially flashy or spectacular, Mahoney proved to be a workman of the steady, smooth­working, utterly reliable variety. His defensive play was practically fool-proof. His superior speed combined with his proficiency ·at snagging opposing backs, made him an ideal man to go down on punts. 
On the offense, his blocking was a contributing factor to more than one long gain during the season. Moreover, he was always a threat as a pass-receiver, his almost effort­less speed making him. hard to cover. 
The 175-pound Cleveland product also made himself useful· as a kicker. . \'{fhenever he was in the game and Carideo was on the sidelines, he took. care of the kick-off for the Blue and Gold. And, with an offensive aggrega­tion such as represented Notre Dame during the past season, .the kick-off play is used with unusual frequency and assumes more than ordinary importance; 
In short, as an end who does everything unusually well, Mahoney has a great opportunity to attain stardom during the next two seasons. 
-~ 37Jr~·­
Official Football Review-1930 · 

BILL PIERCE 
Rigbt Guard 

Winning one's way to ~he shock troops in the first year of competition is no small·accomplishment for a~y Notre Dame prospect, but class will not be denied and Bill Pierce established himself with the second string, playing urider Bert Metzger, by his steady showing in spring practice last spring~ 
At least ten good prospects were out for the same position and it took a lot of sifting to get the group aown to Pierce, Kerjes, and Terlaak, but these three stood out with little to choose be­tween them and all saw action in sever~l games. Which one of them will be graduated to the va.rsity next fall remains to be seen, but money placed on the head of Bill Pierce is compara­tively safe. 
He is built close to the ground and has a tremendous amount of leg-drive so necessary to a guard;· He is a quick thinker and he picked up the hundreds of details connected with guard play in a remarkably short time that he was with the. squad. Line Coach "Hunk" Anderson docs not' expect a sophomore to be perfect; all he asks, as does Rockne, is that a man not be fooled by the same trick twice. If he 'learns something every time he makes a misplay, he is bound to be .. up there" before he gets through. 
For this reason, we predict that Bill will take his place with famous N otrc Dame guards of the past bcfor.c he finishes his athletic career at Notre Dame in 1933. 
REGIS McNAMARA 
Left Tackle 

Competition is great at Notre Dame, and, in order to make good .with the varsity, a candidate must not only have the physical gifts necessary, but he must also show great natural ability, a powerful competitive spirit, and evidence of quick, clear thinking.. 
Regis McNamara showed all of these essential qualities his sophomore year and he won a coveted monogram. Last season, however, some spark that made his 1929 play great was lacking, and he was at least temporarily eclipsed by his more fortunate rivals at left .tackle. This is not an unusual occurance at any school with any team, and it is, in fact, quite common­place at Notre Dame. · 
That McNamara was not back with xhe shock troops during the 1930 season does not mean tha.t in his one remaining year of competition he will not stage the come-back that will again place him with the top-notchers. He has an ideal build for a tackle, he has competitive spirit, b;t;ains, courage, and a remarkable willingness to work. 
What it was that kept him in co.mparatiye oblivion;-if playing even· wi~h the third team can be called oblivion, no one knows. He does not know himself, but anyone who tries as hard as he did during the campaign just past and who has the natural gifts he possesses, cannot be. held.long from the 
.rewards that .arc due him. 

You can't keep a. good man down and fgr this reason we predict that McNamara will be back at the top of the heap, or very close to it, in 1931. 



Unive1~sity of Not1·e Dame 
FRANK KERJES 
Right Guard 

frank Kerjes IS a 192-pound guard, ·not exactly of the watch­charm type, whose :rugged· strength and aggressiveness came in handy on more than one occasion during the past season. There was an abundance af good guard material on the squad and Frank found 'the competition too stiff for him to entertain hopes of win­ning a varsity berth. This can be understood readily, without dis­credit to him, when it is realized that he would have had to beat out dynamic, more experienced Bert Metzger to do so. 
Coach Rockne often used Kerjes as a. shock absorber with the varsity as well as with the second string. The plan of action was to start Kerjes and to depend on his charging to wear down the al­most unfailingly heavy man Bert Metzger would have to face. \Vhen Frank had worn the opposing bruiser down to approximately Metzger's size, Bert would step in and Frank would return to the bench and admire, satisfied that he had done his bit. Metzger was not delicate, but Rockne often shuddered to think what would happen to him and his 15 3 pounds if he were started against a blood-thirsty 200-pounder. 
Although h~ndicapped by a rib injury in 'the early part of th~ season, Kerjes showed a great spirit and, with a little more experi­ence, he may develop the offensive qualities necessary for a varsity position. · 

NORMAN GREENEY 
i 
Left Guard 


\Vhcn Tommy Mills, 1929 Freshman coach left to take up his duties as head coach at Georgetown, he said that he had just coached one of the greatest frosh teams he had ever seen, a team of potential stars whose ability and spirit would show in the future. 
How true his prophecy was is shown by. the rise of two sopho­mores, Kurth and Hanley, to the varsity, and .·the rise of eight second-year men to the shock troops. Not the least brilliant of Tommy's prospective stars was Norman Greeney. whose rugged guard play put him with the second string from the start, under­studying Tom Kassis.• 
. Norm, with a little more experience, will make an ideal varsity man because he has every quality essential to his particular phase of play. Coupled with his natural ability was the faculty for learning something every day and for improving with each prac­tice. It might be said that the player who doesn't improve every day under 'Rockne is hopeless, but Greeney's period of moulding, grinding, and polishing was so short and was characterized by such great strides of progress that it is not an exaggeration to say that he showed more thap ordinary promise. . 
Barring accidents and other unforeseen hindrances, he should emblazon his name in his next two years of competition on the roster of great Notre Dame stars. He has everything cls~all he needs is time. 

Official Football Revie,w-1930 

Hail..:-The Hamburgers I 
NOTRE DAME RESERVE SCHEDULE, ~930 October 4-Reserves ______53; Detroit CitY. College ---------0 October 18-Reserves ______13; Duquesne Frosh -------------7 October 25-Reserves ______19; Wisconsin uB" ..:_____________26 October 25-Reserves ______ 7; Northwestern uB" -----------6 October 31-Reserves ______25; St. Viator ----~-------------7 November !-Reserves ____20; Indiana uB" ----------------0 November 8-Reseives ____32; Michigan Sta.te Normal Frosh___o November 27-Reserves ____58; Vanderbilt ''B" -------------0 
B)' JOHN A. KIENER 
Sports Editor, Notre Dame Scholastic 
'TIS often said that an army moves on its stomach. 
If that is true then it is also true that Notre 
· , Dame's fooball team moves on its uHam­burgers;" The occasional visitor will look around awed and astounded when Rock calls for the uHamburgers.'' · To the seasoned watcher at the daily practice sessions it means o~ly the _appearance of a band of white-shirted re­serves about to do their bit in getting the varsity in shape for the forthcoming battle. 
The uHamburgers," as Rockne has so ignominiously classed them, are coached in the system and plays of the Notre Dame opponents, and they execute these plays against the varsity elevens with all the earmarks of an hon­est-to-goodness Army, Pitt, Southern Cal., or whatever other team they might be repres_enting that week. 
And then when the week's work is done, these uHam­burgers" doff their white jerseys for the traditional blue and trek to some foreign point where they meet other gridiron foes. Although tired out from the past week's hard grind, they put forth every ounce of strength that is in them. · 
Seven victories out of eight contests is the 1930 record. That is something to be proud of and the lowly uHam­burgers" have d~ne up their own individual season very well. · 
Thes~ reserve or ccB" teams again won every game played with a complete squad. For three consecutive years whenever the entire reserve team has played as a unit the outcome has been in their favor. The only defeat this year came when the squad was split into two sections. One beat Northwestern but the other lost a heartbreaker to Wisconsin. 
The season opened with a game which resembled a track meet more than a football contest, and the uB" team walked away with the City College of Detroit eleven, 53 to 0, Oct. 4 at Roosevelt Stadium in Detroit. Dyna­mite Dan Hanley, who later went to 'the varsity, carried the oval across the goal line three times during the course of the afternoon. Staab made two touchdowns and Dill~ ing, Banas, and . Bice, one apiece. Notre Dame received the kick-off and with two plays had scored a touchdown. 

The play ~as called back, however, and Notre Dame: was penalized. Two more plays and the reserves again carried 
the ball across for a touchdown. 
On Oct. 18, a thousand Pittsburgh fans discovered that Notre Dame could play night football wit}:t the same skill and accuracy that her sons display on cold .and bleak Saturday afternoons. Under the blinding floodlights of Forbes field, the uB" team eked out a win over the Du­quesne university _freshmen, 13-7. After a. thrilling first half, featured by a punting duel between Banas of Notre Dame and DeCoster of Duquesne, the victors finally ran the ball across for six points. Kramer, full-back, we.nt 3 0 yards on a cut-back off tackle for the score. 
.The next Saturday, Oct. 25, the reserves divided into two groups. One team, playing the Northwestern reserves as a preliminary to the Northwestern-Centre game. that day, wound up in a close 7-6 victory.· The other lost to \Visconsin uB" team, 26 to 19 after holding an early lead of 13 points. 
In the game with Northwestern the -reserves were con­tent to play defensive ball for the most part inasmuch as the varsity was to play the Wildcats several weeks later. Brancheau scored the only Fighting Irish tally on a pass from Conley, Foley kicking the extra point~ :North­western got their tally in the third quarter after re­covering a. Notre Dame fumble deep in Irish te_rritory. 
In the tilt with the Badgers, Notre Dame got away to an early lead by scoring 13 points within the first three minutes of play;--On the kick-off Capter, playing full­back for Notre Dame, took the ball on the run and dashed 90 yards for the first score. Shortly after Banas went across fgr-the second touchdown with Christman kicking . for the extra point. In the second quarter Banas repeated his scoring act v.;ith an off-tackle play but the Madison team scored on a pass and two off-tackle plays in the sec-: ond period, and at the end of the first half the score was tied at 19-19. Bullock, the bulwar~ of the Badgers' offense, crashed over from the three-yard l_ine for the score which in the end meant victory for his team-mates. 
Another night game on Oct. 31, at Kankakee, Illinois, resulted in ·a .ru~-away for the reserves, the uB" team 

U11ive1·sity of Not1·e Dame 
trampling the St. Viator college eleven 25-7. A second group went to Bloomington, Ind., where the .Indiana re­serves were met at the same time the respective varsities were combating in the Notre Dame stadium. Again the Blue and Gold were victorious, this time a decisive 20 to 0 score. A 3 5-yard pass, Conley to Bice, counted for Notre Dame in the second period and a display of splendid run­ning plays accounted for two more tallies late in the third quarter. Dilling made both of the latter touchdowns, on off-tackle smashes, the first for 15 yards and the sec­ond on a run of 46 yards. 
Although they weren't as·charitable as they might have been in the real sense of ·the word, the reserves trounced the Michigan State Normal freshmen at Grand Rapids, Mich., Nov. 8. Five thousand fans jammed Ramona park stadium and contributed to the support of the Carl A. Johnson post of the American Legion. Long runs fea­tured this 32 to 0 victory for the Fighting Irish, Abbate­marco getting loose around left end and running behind perfect interference, 45 yards for the first marker a few minutes after the game started. Nick Lukats slipped through right tackle a bit later and raced 60 yards for ·the second . tally. The other three touchdowns came in the final quart~r of the contest. One was the result of a long pass from Vejar to Bice and Lukats counted another on a short plunge. Kozak scored the last by intercepting a Michigan State pass and carrying two men with him while he bored his way eight yards to the goal. 
Two weeks ~crest" and then to the South. Comparative rest, for they did .not engage in outside competition dur­ing that time, but on Thanksgiving Day they made the Vanderbilt uB" team just too sick to eat their Turkey for they put a 58 to 0 crease in the year's record of the Southerners. The reserves ended their season in a blaze of glory, showing the Nashville folks the spectacular Notre Dame style of football. It was scheduled as a charity game but here again the· Fighting Irish were miserly in· allowing charity to their opponents of the day for· they ran the Vanderbilt team ragged during the first half and then finished up with a tremendous last half push which brought the score up to its large total. Perfect defense prevented the southerners from scoring. 
Whence came the pseudonym, uHamburgers," no . one seems to know. It is merely one of the characteristically striking inventions of Rockne's brain as far as we can learn. The reserves were originally known bY.-that hack­neyed title, uthe scrubs," but this would not do for long. During a period of evolution, the ~ub-varsity candidates were known by various other n~Ines, and the 19 3 0 name just happened to be uHamburgers."-· -.. 
In this connection, it is interesting, ff irrelevant, to .note that uRock" has several other words of no.,apparent origin or especial application which have their own par­ticular meaning to his men. One of these is the cry, uYockee!" (if that's the way it is spelled) with the accent on the first sylbble. The casual dropper-in at practice will hear it time and a.gain during the course of a shadow scrimmage, and he will be puzzled. It was chosen by Rockne because it is a powerful word, one that can be heard above the roar of a crowd during the heat of a game, and it is the tip-off, usually coming from an end or tackle, 
meaning that the wing-back on his side has started in motion toward the other side of the line before the ball has been snapped. It lets the other side of the line, which can not see the play, know that the ·play may be expected to strike in his territory. 
The looker-on will also hear he word ·uworse" shouted 
from time: to time and will· be mystified again. This is merely another word for ureverse" and its purpose is the same as that of uyockee." Rockne found that his men were missing plays when ureverse" was used, diagnosed the word, found that the first syllable was lost because it did not stand out, and so changed to the more emphatic ver­, sion now used. A reverse is much the same as a uyockee," except on a reverse the man in motion has not started un­
til after the ball is snapped. 
One of Rockne's favorite words in connection with his 
teams, is that they should be what he calls unifty." By 
this he means that his men, whether varsity or reserves, 
should exhuberate an air of quiet confidence, coolness, 
savoir faire, and determination well-masked to do the task 
at hand and do it well. His teams must be, if we may 
use the term, ubig-time" in every move they make. Never 
must any man. give the appearance of being a novice, and 
no crudity of actiOn, word, or manner is tolerated. 
Perhaps the reserves at. times are not quite as unifty" :ts the varsity, but thtir various defects are polished and buffed in practice until these men are ready for varsity work, if that glorious moment should ever come to them. In their games this year, however, even in defeat they exhibited well the effects of uRock's" teaching when they. stepped onto enemy fields with their attitude of quiet superiority, not noticeable enough to be offensive, but · effective enough to throw their opponents a bit off bal­ance. Once, when Jimmy Crowley, famed left-half horse­man of. the equally famed Four Horsemen returned ·to, school after a defeat in 1923, the year before the great backfield won its lasting nickname, he was approached by a devoted ground-keeper who asked him sympathetically what the trouble was in the game. u\Vell," replied Jimmy, uRock says we were defeated by mental poise." uoh, that guy never could play football anyhow," re­torted the ground-.keeper. 
Destruction of tpe other team's mental poise is one of the chief aims of Rockne teams. Reserves as well as varsity men are told how to keep shifting their defense so that the opposing quarter-back will never know where to run his next play; on offense, Notre Dame quarter-backs are the essence of coolness and confidence. \Vhile these elements will not win ball games by themselves, they are nevertheless important factors in many a close struggle. 
To return to the uHamburgers" after this digression, 
we repeat that seven victories in eight contests constitutes 
a remarkable season's rcord, especially so after so many 
tough and gruelling week~ as battering rams to test the 
varsity's defensive mettle. The record may be a tribute to 
umental poise" or whatever you like. 
At any rate, the uHamburgers" have done nobly and 
Notre Dame may well be proud of them. Much of the 
success of the past varsity season goes to these reserves, 
who so courageously and so generously allowed themselves 
to be actually uground up" in daily actual or dummy 
scrimmages. · 

r-­
•ea 
Official Football Review-1930 



lnterhall Football 
By EDMUND G. BRITZ 
E
VERYONE who so desires plays football at 
Notre Dame. One might have distinctive 
qualifications and so merit a coveted position 
on the var·sity squad; or perhaps he might not have ·marked ability, and so ,confine his talent to the interhall football league. It is not the difference in competency with its resulting rewards that is of importance; rather it is the fact that regardless of glory, more than 800 men play football each fall at Notre Dame on either varsity or 
interhall teams: 
Interhall 'football, which might be said to be in the 
"patent applied for" stage of popularity, represents an 
integral part of Rockne's system, and its relative worth as 
a foundation for varsity teams is readily perceivable with 
an explanation of its function. The plan is nothing more 
than an arrangement whereby players on the teams in the 
league are afforded an opportunity to learn the funda­
mentals of the game without fear of embarrassment. The 
following spring they are given the chance to display the 
results of their experience; if worthy they are' asked to 
join the varstty, if not, it is suggested that they return 
to the interhall lea.gue for further improvement. Thus 
it is that Rockne has always at hand a copious source of 
material for varsity teams of the future. It is this abun­
dance of material that has mystified the fan and other 
coaches, but this so-called mystery· is gradually being un­
veiled as the system of interhall football receives its proper 
recognition in football circles. 
Many potential varsity players have been (~unearthed" in interhall competition, later to become Notre Dame stars of the gridiron. Perhaps the most noted case in which a ufind" figured is that of George Gipp, the greatest foot­ball player Notre Dame ever produced. Coach Rockne tells of his first meeting with Gipp, who in his early days here played on the Brownson Hall team. While on one of his st'rolls about the campus to observe any ~atural talent, on a field set aside for interhall players, he saw a tall boy consistently drop-kick 50 yards with all the poise and grace that comes with natural ability. Here was a worthy prospect. It was George Gipp, who was .later to electrify thousands of football fans by his spectacular playing before death called him. 

· Interhall football at Notre Dame has long since be~n graduated from the experimental stage, and now occupies leadership in sport activities on the campus with the ex­ception of the varsity teams in their various ·branches of major sports. Its.. history is packed with memorable in­cidents of hard fought battles, bi~ter victories and acrid losses. Intense rivalry characterizes every game in inter­hall competition, yet good sportsmanship always predomi­nates. It is. fighting spirit that has brought interhall foot­ball out of the obscurity that enshrouded it in earlier days into the limelight of campus popularity. · 
The greatest single advance in interhall football came in the years shortly preceding the war when· the university initiated its policy of furnishing equipment to the players. This important function of the· system has been gradually developed until today the equipment room for the hall gridders resembles the uplant" of a large university. 
Previous .to 1929 the task of supervising the league has been in the hands .of one man. \Vith the intention of centralizing the labor of administering over the :·league, Coach Rockne, in September, '1929, created a board of· directors composed of the twelve residence hall rectors with the Rev. Raymond Murch, C.S.C., as chairman. In addition Mr. Rockne ·appointed George Keogan, head 

Slamli11g, left to right: B. Mikes; T. Tarosovic; L. Blommaert; F. Madden; R. Law; j. jordm; E. jane; j. Nugent; E. Reaume; M. Van Etten; F. Nulty; J. Mulhall; E. Cunningham (Coach). . Km•clittJ:, left to right: G. Kelley; M. Ellis; M. Crawford; F. Miller; F. McCarthy; D. Lambert; j. Cole; J. McCann. 
-~ 42}~·­

57 

basketball coach, to be director of the hall system with 
the duty of deciding all disputes and protests; and assign­
ing the fields and officials for the contests; while Fa.thcr 
Murch arranged the schedules. This year the league was 
under the management of Dan Halpin, senior football 
manager, and his ·associates. , . 
In an effort to instill a. keen. interest in interhaU foot­

ball, Mr. Rockne decided last year ·to assign varsity men 
as coaches ot the various teams so that each team in the 
league might profit by the instruction of a man well 
experienced m football. The decision became a precedent, 
with the coaches and their assistants selected from the 
university's School of Physical Education. By this work 
with the hali teams, they obtain the practical coaching 
experience required in their course. 
In the following list of coaches for the year I93 0, the 

first named in each case is the varsity representative, and 
the second is his co-worker: Freshman, Brill, Napolitano; 
Sophomore, Kaplan, \Vilson; Carroll, Yarr, Bresson; 
Brownson, Savoldi, Kuhn; \Valsh, Conley, Cunningham; 
Corby, Romanin, Griffen; Badin, Leahy, Edmond 
O'Connor; Howard, O'Brien, Luckett; Morrissey, Capter, 
Artman; Lyons, Carideo, McQuaid; St. Edward's, Kosky, 
Koken; Off-Campus, Butorac, Sheeketski. · 
The ulterior motive of Coach Rockne in appointing a varsity man to supervise the formation of a hall team was one o~ preparation. By being in contact with the teams the varsity men could easily spot any prospective material, and see to it that every avenue to advancement was opened to the one under consideration.. The type of player sought for mostly IS a fighter possessing some football technique, no matter how little. If he has fight he can readily be moulded into a finished player by responding to the tute­lage of expert coaches. Thus the interhall circuit is rich · in varsity material because the primary requisite for an 
interhall· player is the ability to fight. 
\Vith the issuance of 3 50 suits to the candidates, the 

I930 season promised to be highly competitive as usual. 
The twelve squads earnestly groomed in anticipation of 
the race for campus laurels, swung into action on October 
5, after an inspiring talk by Coach Rockne urging· them 
to take full interest in the competition. The response was 
evidenced by hard-fought battles, each contest reflecting 
the traditional spirit of the. league and drawing large at­
tendances from the respective halls. Efficiency was the 
keynote of the schedule, and to the officials who directed its 
fulfillment credit is due for their excellent management. 
The outcome of the. gridiron elimination' contest had 
U1zive1·sity of Not1·e Dame 
THE STANDINGS 
G1·oup 1 
Pel
w L T 

Lyons ---·------------4 0 2 1.000 Corby ---------------2 0 3 1.000 
__________3

St. Edward's I 2 .750 
___________2

Sophomore 2 I .500 
_____________ I

Morrissey 4 0 .200 
____.:._1

Off-Campus UB'' 4 0 .200 
G1·oup 2 
\V L T Pet. 
_______________5

\Valsh 0 I 1.000 1 1 .800
Howard --'-------------4 Freshman 2 0 .600
------------3 
________..:._2

Off-Campus 3 0 .400 
__________:__I

Brownson 4 0 .200 Carroll -----------·----0 5 0 .000 
all the aspects of a movie climax. Lyons Hall finally won the right to represent one group of the league after two games with St. Edward's, the first of which ended in a scoreless tie, and was matched in the championship game against \Valsh which had finished undefeated at the top of the second group after nosing out the Howard hailers in their second meeting.-Approximately 2,000 people, confident of a close struggle, crowded the new Notre Dame stadium to watch the final battle. Thrill followed thrill as first Walsh and then Lyons hammered the line and skirted the ends in an attempt to score. It was a great defense· against an equally great defense, with all ground­gaining efforts rendered practically futile. Then as the last . seconds of play rapidly lessened, a long pass from Bob Law fell into the waiting arms of Jane, who sped across Lyon's 
goal to score and to crown \Valsh the victor. 
The final score is an indication of the comparative 
strength of the two teams which represented the interhall 
groups. Narrow margins of victory in other contests 
marked the season as the closest and most keenly competi.., 
tive. The champs played six games exclusive of the final 
one with Lyons, defeating Howard, after one tie game, 
Freshman, Off-Campus, Brownson, and Carroll. Their 
march to the championship was distinctive in the fact that 
not once was their goal crossed by an opposing team. 
F,-st Team Positio1t Seco1td T ea11t 
Sandera (Howard) ____________________Left End________-:-------------· Giorgio (St: Edward's) Colechick (Freshman) ___________.:_ ______Left Tackle______: _______________ \Voods (Lyons) · Hamilton· (Corby) ____________________ ,Left Guard ___________________ Connelly (Off-Campus) 
Robinson (Howard)--------------'-----Center__.:_ _____________________Holland (Corby) Coughlan (Sophomore) --.-------------:.:__Right Guard___________________Igel (Freshman) 
Stropler (Corby) ______________________Right Tackle__________________ .Hargrove (Brownson) J anc (Walsh)------------------------·Right End____________________ Brennan (Corby) Conti (Lyons) -·---------~-------------Quarter-Back ___________________Collins (Sophomore) McCarthy (St. Edward's) --------------Left Half____~----------------Kozak (Off-Campus) 
Law (\Valsh) -------:------------------Right Half____________________ Grundeman (Howard). Bohnsack (Lyons) -----------.----------Full-Back_______:________________ McCarthy (\V:alsh) 
All-Interhall Selection's of the I2 Hall Coaches and the Director of the Department of Physical Education. 
-·:6£ 4 3 }~·­

#••. -.... -....... ---­
Official Football Review-1930 

11The Wearers of the Green11 
By RonERT E. GoRMAN 

MANFRED VEZIE AND \VILLIAM ]ONES 
Fresbman Football Coaches 
T
\VO hundred and eighty-seven high school 
heroes reported for Freshman football last 
September, presented their newspaper clippings 
and all-state records to Coaches Bill Jone~ and Manny 
Vezie, and waited for the numerals to be awarded. All 
of the boys should have made good by Thanksgiving time, 
in accordance with the old storybook tradition, but. it 
seems, on the contrary, that two hundred and two of them 
were slashed frorh the squad and a. permanent group of . . only eighty-five was left to carry on for good old '34. 
Prior to last year the Freshmen were used as ((contact men" for the varsity to push around in practice scrim­mages. Last year more attention was devoted to the work of familiarizing the frosh with the Rockne system. This plan brought better results and was adhered to, for die most part, by Jones and Vezie this season. \Vitness the rapid rise of Joe Kurth, who stepped in with the varsity at right tackle, when Dick Donoghue was injured in the first game, and has stayed there ever since. Also note the fact that Host, Harriss, Greeney, Butler, Terlaak, Pierce, Mahoney, Jaskwhich, Staab, and Hanley of last year's frosh all saw action with the shock troops during the past season. As a result, the 85 men left on the squad under­went a thorough initiation into the intricacies of Notre Dame football. 

This plan was deviated from long enough for the men to learn the _plays of Navy, Drake, and Indiana. \Vhen called upon to impersonate these three teams in scrim­mages with the varsity, the green-clad athletes had an op­portunity to play around with the toughest .of opponents before the greatest of critics. \Vhereas at the beginning of the season they had been overwhelmed iri the annual Freshman-Varsity ((frolics," the frosh now came through as few freshman teams have . ever come through, display­ing defensive work that was pa-rticularly capable. 
During the last three weeks of the season the men were given an intensive drill in the fundamentals of the game, at the' completion of which they had finished serving their gridiron apprenticeships. Numerals were a.warded in time for their recipients to wear tqem during Christmas vaca­tion for the edification of the boys back in the hometown meeting places. 
To be entrusted by Knute Rockne with the responsible task of giving talented freshmen the right start in their football careers, is a tribute to any coach's ability. Coaches Jones and Vezie earned this distinction by their long ser­vice during the Rockne regime. After three years of playing experience, Jones collaborated with Tommy Mills in tutoring the 1929 Freshman team, while Vezie is one of the most capable ends . to wear the Gold and Blue in recent years. 
Although· the old sandlot cry, cci want to play quarter­back," was voiced by fully two-thirds of the 'freshman backfield cadidates, it still managed to arouse interest in the coaches who realized that there will be an all-American quarter-hick to replace on the 1931 varsity. After the last signal· had been called, two Chicago products, Ray Boland and Al McGuff, together with Larry Furlong, of Joliet, stood out as the classiest field generals on the squad. 
In emulation of Schwartz, Elder, Flanagan, and other flashy ,left half-backs who have made history under Rockne, another flock of aspirants tried out for this posi­tion. George Melinkovich came all the way from Tooele, Utah, to steal the coaches' attention from these candidates, while Harold Johnson, of Kewanee, Illinois, is another bright prospect. · 
The parade of tlie right halfs was led by Michaelson, Sioux Falls, South Dakota; Millhean, Beloit, \Visconsin; and Smith, Indianapolis. 
The latest contribution which Captain Tom Conley's alma niater, Roman Ca.tholic High,· of Philadelphia, has made to Notre Dame athletics is Jimmy Leonard, a full­back with a future. Leonard, however, had far from a mo.­nopoly on the full-back situation. Joe Rinaldi, another Tooele, Utah, product, and V ettel,. an Ohio lad, are other high-powered full-backs. 
\Vhile Larry Mullins_ has already made Pasadena high school famous, Ben Alexander, a promising center, is seek­ing to perpetuate tha.t school's fame. Another prep star from the west coast, Tom Cahill, of Los Angeles, gave Alexander the stiffest kind of competition at die pivot post, while Joe Buzolits, a South Bend boy attempting to make goo~, also showed ball-snapping capabilities. 


U1z{ve1·sity of Not1·e Dame 
Fine guards have beco~e a tradition at Notre Dame. This is one tradition that the class of '34 apparently will carry on, for there was an abundance of good guard ma­terial on the squad. The list of efficient guards is headed by the brothers Chapman, of Los Angeles, and by four Hoosiers: Schrenker, of Elwood; \X'eidner, of LaPorte; and Paulson and Lentsch, of South Bend. . 
The squad also included several tackles who in all prob­ability will be playing big time ball before their careers are finished. ·Paul Krauciunas, formerly of De LaSalle, Chicago, is one of the best prospects at this position, while other outstanding tackles are Barstow, of Menominee, Mich.; Rascher, of Beecher, Ill.; Bomba, of Chicago; and Zvonkin, of Hamilton, Ont. 
Plenty of talented performers were also a.vailable at the end positions. Hugh Devore, having prepped at the same school that Johnny Colrick did, St. Benedict's, Newark, is attempting to equal Colrick's brilliancy as an end. Frank Canale, la.te of Christian Brothers Academy, Memphis, is another outstanding flankman, while Franklin, of New York; Ed Krauciunas, of Chicago; and Moriarity, of Phil­adelphia, arc equally promising. 
Right here it might not be out of place to mention the fact that no amount of advance agent blurb or high school distinction wins a man a place on the Frosh squad. On the other hand, no candidate, no matter if he is just an­other number to the equipment room and just another green-jersied 'dreamer of heroic dreams to the coaches, is denied the chance of making good with the chosen 85. 
The mulling done by Bill Jones and Manny Vezie over each prospect before his fate is decided puts to shame the endless process· of sifting done by all-American pickers for the newspapers. Every man who wants to try his hand and his foot in the manly fall sport is handed the necessary equipment and what he does on the field-not what he has done in high school, ~r would like to do with the varsity-is the criterion by which these two mentors make their selections. 
Perhaps this sounds like the pep talk Bill and Manny made at the beginning of the season when they had their 
2 87 yearlings together for the first time. But to say that it is not true is to contradict fact that stands on the 
·basis of the past. We cannot name off-hand any men with brilliant high school records who did not make good and who were dropped, because these things are not dis­cussed either by the coaches or the players in question .. But we can name men on the present varsity and with the second and third teams who just went out for the fresh­man team without showing their newspaper _clippings to the coaches, and some·who perhaps didn't have any news­paper clippings because they hadn't even played football in high school. , 
Marty Brill is perhaps the outstanding example of the point we are trying to make. He wasn't even good enough ·for the team Notre Dame last season beat by 40 points and, so ~ay the critics, could have beaten br a hundred. 
-But he was given his· opportunity. Tom Kassis came from C1sper, \X'yo., and went out for center ... no one had.. heard of him, but he was given his chance, shifted, to guard his third year, and now he has passed out of history as. one of Notre Dame's best. And so it was with Bert M~tzger, all-American guard who was unknown to such a great extent that he was almost prevented from going out because of his lack of size. Given his chance, though, he came through. Tommy Yarr at center, and Ed Kosky at left end are also examples of unheralded men who were considered by the freshman coaches, kept on the squad, and subsequently moved up to the varsity. 
\Ve could nap1e countless other examples of .. finds" made among the aspiring freshmen. Boys like Frank Hoff­man, shock troop tackle who never played in high school, are not so rare a:; tO be startling at Notre Dame. The freshman coaches make mistakes a.t times; no. one is per­fect. But both Jones and Vezie played three years of football at Notre Dame themselves and they at least know enough about the game and about handling men, so that they seldom have to second-guess. All they ask for is some show of na-tural ability, some evidence of courage, and some willingness to work-they will provide then ­'Yhat is lacking. 

Alexander, John Beacco, \'lilliam Beacco, Boland, Bomba, Bolger, Begley, Buzolits, Blaine, Butler, John Chapman, Richard Chapman, Cashill, .Cahill, Cowart, Canale, Cusick, Connors, Canfield, Conley, Carmody, Cramer, Currey, Collins, Clark, Crosaro,. Connely, Charles Carney, John Carney, William Carney, Durkin, Desnoyer, Dixon, Devore, Dalton, Flynn, Finari, Federer, Forrest, Fisher, Jack Flynn, Gildea, Gumbert, Gilles­pie, Halpin, Healy, Horgrove, Hoban, Brosky, Izel, Jaudoli, Jehle, Kane, Edward Krauciunas, Philip Krauciunas, Kelly, Krack, Lentsch, Leonard, Lindner, Leis, Lewis, Lcshowicz, Lotus, Mclinkovich, Michaelson, Murphy, Mueller, Meyer, Millhean, Martenel, Marlarncy, McGowan, 1\-lcDcrmott, McCrann, McGuff, Nicholas, O'Neill, O'Dea, O'Connor, Otizingcr, Orr, O'Brien, Pionteck, Paulson, Pivarnik, Prowse, Pashwietz, Palmisani,' Rinaldi, Regantc, Repine, Ed Ryan, John Ryan, Schrcker, Streb, Smith, Stephen, Stancook, Strong, Schonfild, Sucher, Selfridge, Shapiro, 
Sluszka, Teency, Tobin, Van Pctten, W'itucki, \'Ieidner, \'linter, \'lhelan, \'Veidle. 



U1tive1·sity of Not1·e Dame 
The Beginning of a New Era 
( 

By NEIL C. HuRLEY 
N
OTRE DAME Stadium -a monument to sportsmanship, a tribute to fighting youth, and an ampitheatre devoted to modern 

athletics. · 
The architects say it was made with brick and mort3.r. Maybe it ,was. But there was a lot more "Rock" put into that bowl than even the builders ever dreamed or unimaginative technical men would ·be expected to know. 
The dedication the night before the Navy game culmi­nated a frenzied torch-lit parade of the student body, with about 20,000 spectators looking on~ Next day, just before the kick-off, Frank E. Hering made the official ad­dress amid a bevy of air bombs and camera flashes. 
It was the best demonstration ever seen on the Notre Dame campus. ·The band began playing about seven o'clock Friday evening. The st.udeius fell into line, torches blazing, songs on high, three ·thousand strong. 
A new era was beginning. 
A new era, undoubtedly, but with the same traditions, 
the same :fight, yes, even the same soil of the-immortal 
Cartier Field. But new history was to be made, new tra­
ditions to be· started. 
The structure was raised by engineers and architects, by means of blue prints and placing brick upon. brick. Technically, the stadium is flawless. It is modern in every respect. As a building it compares with any in the 
·country. 
But it was not the perfection of this structure thlt was the key-note of the . dedication. The gathering w:1s not to give praise to the work of the masons and brick­layers. Even the visitors saw that. It was a memorial to Pete Vaughan, to Jimmy Phelan, to George Gipp, to the Four Horsemen, to all other Notre Dame men and Notre . Dame stars. · · 
There were some persons who wanted to.~ame it Rockne 
Field. It was fitting, but "Rock" said no. He was 
generous. 
The pa'rade· to the stadium is unforgettable in Notre 
Dame history. The torches, _flaming red, marked off the three-block-long procession. A procession of cheering, loyal, stout fellows, who chanted the Hike Song as they marched. The meeting of the Off-Campus delegation at the postoffice was inspiring. More cheers were given, more singing, more fla.res. 
The bowl was crowded with humanity, the north end was completely filled. An Indiana moon, round and bright, added to the picture. The setting was perfect. 
As the students thundered ·to their seats, twenty air bombs exploded. Again they sang "The Hike Song." The Notre Dame spirit was at its zenith. A cheer leader came from 'somewhere and the stands vibrated with. the "Drum" yell. Even Gilbert Keith Chesterton, the writer, was given a volley of yells. He learned about school spirit that night. 
Notre Dame .was.dedicating a stadium. 
"\X'e are happy to have the Navy help us on this au­spicious occasion," said Knute R9ckne, as flashlights for newspaper cameras in~errupted the darkness of the night. Brick and mortar. And "Rock." 
Set pieces burned in a far corner of the stadium. They blazed out a welcome to the Navy, spelled out the Notre Dame monogram, and unfurled the American colors in a flaming-flag. 
In this haven of enthusiasm, basking in the informality of student loyalty, Rear Admiral S. S. Robison brought the best wishes of the Naval Academy. There were flowers from big universities, the biggest wreath coming from the team that was first defeated on the new field, Southern Methodist. Sportsmanship, ideals, friendly rivalry. 
The crowd tha.t night heard Knute Rockne speak, they heard Admiral Robison, as he told about the Navy's friendly relations with Notre Dame, and lastly, ably in­troduced by Pat Manion, they heard the Rev. Charles 
L. O'Donnell, C.S.C., as he recited that famous story of George Gipp; the story which seemed to symbolize the spirit of the Fighting Irish, which seemed to fit in so well with the new surroundings. 
"I s~w Gipp play his last game against the Army in 

EXCAVATION FOR THE STADIUM 
-·-(-{47}t~·-. 
l 
\ 
\ 
.... 
\ 
-· ·--_.. _______
~ 
( 
Official Football Revie1V-1930 
1920," began Father O'Donnell, .. and was on the bench 
when in the last quarter he was relieved from play, limp­
ing off the field exhausted and depleted of every ounce 
of strength, ail of which he had given for that impossible 
dream of love and loyalty which makes up a college' man's 
devotion to his school and his fellows-actually dying, 
though we knew it not, for already in pis system was 
working that insidious poison which was less than a month 
Iater to bring him to the grave. 
· ..He had done everything," he continued, ..that any 
football player had ever done upon a field and he had 
done it better than most. Darkness was coming in on the 
bitter winds that swept across the plains as he sat there 
in his blanket, relaxed, pale, silent, crying a. little, I think. 
"Then suddenly he was on his feet; he-leaped onto the· 
bench, the blanket fallen from his shoulders. Chet \Vynne, 
our full-back, had made one of those sudden, amazing cuts 
through the line, good for some fifteen or twenty yards. 
In a vo1ce that could be heard, it seemed to me, above :til 
the roar of the crowd, Gipp shouted: 'Yea, Chet,' as h;: 
stood there, ·self entirely 'forgotten, quivering from head 
to foot with joy and loyal pride in that achievement of his 
team-mate." 
That was Gipp. Tha.t tells why Notre Dame could 
build a· great stadium. It explains. what is behind every 
football team that Knute Rockne coaches. 
Brick and mortar. No, a monument to loyalty, to 
fighting youth, and dashing spirit. 
It is a memorial earned by the sweat of twenty-four 
years of football. Earned by the football heroes of three decades-the late John I. Mullen, three times captain of the team; Louis ..Red" Salmon; Harry ..Red" Miller; Charley Crowiey; Gus Dorais; Knute Rockne; Ray Eich­. enlaub; the Bergmans; the younger Millers; Clipper.Smith; _ "Hunk" Anderson; the famous ends, Kiley and Anderson; the Collins boys; Johnny Mohardt; Lawrence ..Buck" Shaw; Paul Castner, and their equally famous team-mates. 
The next afternoon before the thousands who thronged 

to witness· the .Navy game, Frank E. Hering, former cap­tain and first coach of football, delivered his address. The dedication was complete. 
"To Knute_ Rockne," said Mr. Hering, "and those thou­sands of athletes who, inspired by him, have added to the fame of Notre Daine, this ceremony is more than a dedi­ca cion; it is a testimonial. 
·"The sod that carpets the floor of this stadium is rich in traditions."· Mr. Hering is in a corner of the new field, flowers about, newspaper photographers, and a notional radio hook-up carrying his voice throughout the nation. "For. a quarter of a century, athletes who have added to the fame of Notre· Dame have raced over its emerald sur­face carrying our colors to victory, or have opposed with their bodies charging opponents seeking the coveted goal­line. _ · "Notre Dame is an advocate of clean, vigorous ath­letics. Each student is encouraged to excel in the sport for which he has an aptitude. Pres. Charles O'Donnell has made known to the world our position; we accept gladly the discipline of. competitive sports; we especially favor games in which high proficiency is a.ttainend only by mergmg achievements of individual players into the closely woven pattern of team-play. 
"Tradition is a compound of reverence and pride a.!ld unselfish service," continued Mr. Hering. ..Notre Dame traditions live. They are cherished and perpetuated. Over the years, the devoted men who have built this institution have established records of unselfish service and sacrifice that have reacted convincingly and beneficially on those who have· come under their influence. · 
"\Vhat other American college or university during the past quarter of a century has contributed so many names that deserve to adorn football's Hall of Fame? . Notre Dame teams-physically fit, splendidly coached, and in­spire~ by the ideal, 'Each for all and all for Notre Dame' -have thrilled millions _of specta.tors and inspired the youth of the nation to play the game of football-and the 

THE CONCOURSE -·~:if 4s r~·­
j 
4 


f 

U1ziversity of N ot1·e Dame 
game of life-in the spirit of the rules." 
The band played; the flag was raised; the kick-off-and that new era began. Football history in the making. Tele­graph instruments and typewriter keys clicked, radio an­nouncers recounted the tale to the microphonc--,-the world was told. · 
Notre Dame has a great stadium. They selected the Navy to help them dedicate it. They selected Navy be­cause relations between Annapolis and Notre Dame have always been of the best, because the Irish have ba-ttled "Bill" Ingram's boys for a good many years, and no mat­ter the calibre of c~thcr team, both at the end knew .tliere was a scrap. 
They selected Navy because the Midshipmen possess so much of that ideal Notre. Dame admires. Annapolis is a school of sportsmen. They play hard, tough football, but they arc sportsmen., Notre Dame teams like to do business with that type. 
You sec, Notre Dame teams know how to fight and be sportsmen, too. That's why the stadium could be built· in the first place. 
Facts About the Stadium The entire work was completed in little more than four months .. James Carmody, student statistician extraordi­nary, 'with the combined science and commerce schools, delved into the matter ·a bit more closely and brought forth some facts and figures on· the project. "Believe it or not," begins this young Roger Babson, 
..but if the 2,000,000 bricks were laid end. to end they would reach from the Administration building to the Cleveland waterfront, or a. matter of some three hundred miles. 
"And furthermore," continues Mr. Carmody, «if we take on1y the steel that makes up the framework of the stadium, look what we find. There were· 400 tons of it used, or, more simply, 20 carloads. Let us make bullets of it and there will be 6,400,000 of them, if two ounces wcrc·'used for each one. If they were fed steadily into a machine gun which shoots one hundred of them a minute, the tngger would be pressed for forty-four days and ten hours be±ore the supply would be exhausted. 
..The laborers required a ton of food daily," he con­tinues, ..and drank five ·hundred gallons of ·water each day. F~rthermorc, the 15,000 cubic yards of concrete, if made into a tower of ten feet square would reach a height of five and one-half times that of the \Voolworth build­ing. 
"If a table were to be made of the 100,000 feet of Cal­ifornia red-wood lumber used for the seats, some inter­esting facts would be divulged. For inst:mce, it it were four feet wide, it would stretch for a distance of 25,000 feet. And 20,000 people could be accommodated for meals at one time." 
The architects of the stadium were the Osborn Engi­neering Co. who have designed some 50 stadia in all parts of the country. These· ·indluce Comiskey Park in Chicago, and the Y ankcc Stadium and the Polo Grounds in New York. They also have crec~ed the stadia at the Uni-

THE, MAIN ENTRANCE 
-~~ 49J~·­

~---~------------------~------------------------~----------~-------------------------­
vcrstttes of Michigan, Indiana, Pu_r­
duc, and Minnesota. 
It is so designed that, should oc-· 
casion warrant the change, it is possible .to ·place a double deck on top· of the.present structure. Should this be done there would be room ·for. 120,000 spectators, ··making it 
one of the largest in the world. 
Designed for football and foot­
ball alone, the stadium is rectangular 
in shape and all scats. arc as close as 
possible to the playing field. Thus, 
visibility i.s aided to a great extent 
and the statement that there is not a 
poor scat in the cnt_irc arena ~s true. 
· The scats start about 10 yards 
from each boundary of the field-there is no running 
track, no jumping pit, no equipment whatsoever irrelevant 
to football, included on the playing field-and the rows arc 
banked so that there is· no necessity of jumP..ing to one's 
feet to sec every play. .: 
Everything possible was done for the convenience of spectators when the stadium was planned. · The play~ng field is sunk some 10 feet below the level of the outside terrain so that the spectator ma.y enter the stadium · through any one of its many portals without climbing endless ramps or fatiguing steps. The problem ~f draining the field was unusually difficult because of the fact that it is below the outside level, but this was taken care of by an elaborate system of tiling. · 
For added convenience of· the spectator, new cement 
highways from every direction were built and unlimited 
parking space was provided. Railroads ran special 'spurs 
to a point within easy walking distance of the :stadium to 
take· care of the crowds expected from Chicago, ·Detroit, 
Indianap~lis, Milwaukee, Fort \'V'ayne, Cleveland, Toledo, · 
and other cities of Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin, Indiana, , 
and Ohio, as well as more distant points. 
There arc special offices in the stadium where the work 
of recovering or re-assigning lost tickets is carried on by 
]. Arthur Haley, business manager, and his assistants. Rest 
rooms, concession stands, first-aid rooms, everything pos­
sible for the convenience and comfort of visitors to Notre 
Dame's home games has been provided for by the architects. 
I 


Official Football Review-1930 
The student managers have their own office at the north end of the stadium close to the two. team locker-rooms which flank the large entrance at this end of .the edifice. The locker-rooms arc modern . in every respect, roomy, light, airy, well-ventilated, meticulously clean and sanitary at all times. 
A large ramp at the north en? admits the contestants to the field with a minimum of delay and effort. Instead of ha.ving to file through narrow gates or push through crowds hurrying to their seats, the ·players can run onto the playing 

. field in a group independent· of whatever else is taking place. · 
The ramp also permits bands to eritcr in full formation, ­and it is the one and only entrance for trucks and ground.:. keepers' equipment. 
Coach Rockne, ever thoughtful of the spectators, has kept· the number of .. side-line guests" at a minimum and he allows no photographers, sound movie trucks, or any­thing or anyone of this nature on the field. · Instead of the orthodox players' benches, which not only cut off the view of persons in box scats, but also expose the players to the rain, snow, sleet, and cold of fall, a. dugout for each team has been provided. These are enclosed on three sides and are well below the first-row seats. 
Perhaps the crowning glory of the stadium is the press box, generally agreed by the nation's prominent sports writers to be the finest in the country: With its seating capacity of 264 writers, besides photographers, radio broad­casters, messengers, electricians, and ushers, the press box 
. is ideal in its way. Not only does it seat more to our knowledge than. any other in the country, but there is more room at each position than will be found at others with the same number of seats. ·There is plenty of space at each position for a portable typewriter and an open 
·program beside it. · · . 
The radio· booths, three in number, are situated in the north end of the hox in the back. 1;hey are fully sound­proof and visibility from them is perfect.· They have microphone connections to all parts of the stadium so that 

THE STADIUM INTERIOR NEARING COMPLETION 
-·~~so r~­
U1tive1·sity of Not1·e Da11te 
band music, cheering, and crowd noises may be picked up for the millions who sit_tense at home form­ing their. mental word picture of all that goes on. 
A special platform for photog­raphers, dropped from beams in the ceiling, gives cameramen a most strategic posi~ion from which to ,look down on plays, and pictures from this, the highest point of the stadium, give a. comprehensive view of action shots, much clearer than those taken from the sidelines: The 
platform also places the photog­raphers above the heads of the work­ing press and it interferes in no way with their vision or work. " 
Finally, the entire press box is glass-enclosed and even has windshields running the full lengtl~ of each row to keep papers from blowing about and to protect the writers 
. from the clements. 
A thousand and one other details, unnoticed by specta-. tors, help to make it as easy as possible for a person to sec the fighting men of Notre Dame upholding the traditipn of old. Cartier field. A public address system broadcasts to the spectators and to the pressmen a detailed account 
·of each play from the sidelines. Electric scoreboards at either end.of the field supply all information to the eye that the ear might miss. 
Everything practicable has been done to make more pleasant the visits of thousands of football lovers and 
·friends-of Notre Dame. The stadium, a monument to warrio~s of the past, is the kind of a remembrance they would want .most. It is mor~ than a testimonial, it is a useful, living, practical, service-giving piece of architec­ture, a reflection of their great services. 
Early History The present edifice is a growth from the old Cartier: Field which was erected in 1899 on a spot just cast of the 

Brownson campus, wherever th;l-: might have been. 
In those days there were no ad­mission barriers, appaling gate re­ceipts, or huge, colorful crowds. Football was football of the brute type, played in innings, not halves. The first game that the school . ever played was a gains Michigan---:­and this was even before the players' bench had been built, let alone a 55,000 capacity stadium. They dug up eleven unpadded suits and chal­lenged the \Volvcrines. The site' of this encounter was the Green Stock­ing ball park in South Bend. The game was described as very exciting, and included much kicking of the 

ball and rushing by men of the team. The following day, they played the same team a-gain. This time the, game was entirely for the eyes of the student. body and was played· on a vacant lot somewhere close to the school. Notre Dame lost both games. 
Traffic Handled Well 

The Rockne traffic and parking system for Notre Dame's new stadium has achieved great success this year. 
At each games from 2,500 to 4,500 automobiles were steered into convenient and ample parking places over well marked and policed routes that dodged the 'local traffic in the South Bend business district. 
The parking facilities for the new stadium have been called by experts the finest in America. Plenty of room is aff01;dcd on all sides of the field and it is well utilized by those in charge. 
Knutc Rockne, knowing that a great deal of enjoyment of a football game depends upon the personal comfort, personally saw to plans fo: the arrangement of parked cars. 

ROCKNE'S DREAM \VHICH HAS COME TRUE 
-·~~51 t~~­
Official Football Review-1930 

All-Opponent Stars 




Left Half 








Right Eml Right Taclde 


U11.iversity of Not1·e Dame 
·.The Review's AU-Opponent Tearn 
By JOSEPH s. PETRITZ 
Player Colleg.e Positiou 
Edwin. Messinger ____________________ Army----------------.,-------------Left End 
R. M. Bowstrom ______________ _:_ _____ N a vy-----------------------------Left Tack,le John Baker_ _______________________ Southern California ____ :__ _____________Left Guard \VIaldo Don Carlos_______________ . ___Drake__..:.__________________________ Center 
Charles Humber__:._ _________________ A,rmy-----------------------------Right Guard Dallas Marvil _______________________ Northwestern_______________________~ght Tackle Louis Long.:.._______________:. _________ Southern Methodist__________________ Right End Lynn King___~ __________.___________Drake______:____:.____..:_ ______________Quarter-back 
\VIeldon Mason_____________________Southern Methodist__________________ Left Half Howard Eyth__________________:-___ Carnegie Tech----------------------Right Half Reb RusselL_______________________Northwestern_______________________ full-back 
I
N PRESENTING its 1930 All-Opponent team, the Official Football Review feels that it has one of the most representative mythical teams pos­

sible. At first glance, perhaps, many will disa.gree with out selections because they do not agree with what the newspapers have picked as their sectional and all-American choices. 
The method used in picking the Review's team, how­ever, is so thoroughgoing and so independent of .. news­paper stars" tha.t we feel it gives us an eleven which if actually organized would take its place with any chosen by a newspaper :or a magazine. 
The schedule Notre Dame played brought the Fighting Irish into contact with representative teams from every section of the country, teams whose individual sta.rs were as brilliant as any coach could desire. 
In making its selection, the Review first consulted with . the Notre Dame scouts who had seen Notre Dame's opponents in action during the 1929 season and last sea­son. From them, we gained a world of information about stars who were bcing.promoted for ·my_thical honors because of brilliancy in one department of play, stars who had big reputations, but who ..didn't like it"-the vcnacular for a player who will signal fair catches all· afternoon and run out of bounds rather than be ·tackled after being hard hit by a tackler or blocker. 
Secondly, the Review asked the coaches who they thought stacked up best as consistent, all-around men, both before, after, and during their games against Notre Dame. · 
Finally, we went to the Notre Dame players themselves for their opinion of the play of the men they opposed in their ten games. For example, the ends were asked which tackles, ends, and half-backs were the hardest' to draw out of position and to block out of a play as well as which could block best themselves. They were asked which ends and backs they thought were the best pass receivers, and, in short, which men they opposed showed the most all­around ability, the most spirit, and the best coaching. And so it was with the other players; all gave us willingly their opinions and we feel that from the information we· gleaned from scouts, coaches, and players we have selected a team with spirit, fight, and ability, and a team that could go out and play steady, consistent ball day in and day out. 
There naturally were scvera.l hard decisions ~o make, and perhaps we have done an injustice to some of our oppo­nents. \VIe feel, however, that our selections arc as repre­sentative as they possibly could be and trust that a short description of each man's play will dear up any doubts the reader may have about the choice made. 
At the ends, we have named Louis Long and Edwin Messinger of Southern Methodist and Army, respectively. Long was perhaps the most brilliant pass-receiver Notre Dame met all season ·and he was just as good as a blocker, a decoy, and as a defensive man. No a.ttempt to run his end or to cut inside of him was entirely successful and to pass into his territory was folly. He wore out a com­plete Notre Dame backfield with his persistent long dashes. down the field, not only as a receiver but as a decoy and he was going just as strong at the end of that hot, sultry October 4 afternoon as he was at the beginning. He had a great competitive spirit and his attitude was re­flected in his entire team's confidence and hard play. Messinger, who was chosen last year on the Review team, was, if anything, bett~r than last season. His steady de­fensive play and his emphatic blocking in the mud, ice, and rain of Soldier Field kept his team in the ball game and never once did he let down or relax during the 60 grueling minutes of play. 
His team-mate, Carlmark; Briley, Drake's captain-elect; Byng, of Navy; Roscnzsweig, Carnegie's hard-driving, ex­perienced flankman; Arbelbide, U. S. C.'s all-American prospect; ~iblett, captain-elect at Penn; ·and North­western's brilliant Baker, arc also outstanding men who arc worthy of mention here. :lviost of them were not really impressive in all departments of the game,_ however, and the two on the first team represent .the consensus of Notre Dame's players, coaches, and scouts for first honors. 
At the tackles, R. M. Bowstro.m, acting captain for the Navy against Notre Dame; and Dallas :lv[arvil, of North­western were chosen. Bowstrom's inspirational leadership and never-say-die spirit coupled. with his natural ability and experience made him ideal in this position. He was the outstanding lineman in a fighting Middic. forward wall when he played against the Irish and his work all season· was steady. Marvil, of Northwestern, was everything that a good tackle should be. He covered his territory on 
(Continued nn p~ge 98) · 



:~-· ............ =~ __,~_,_..__· _... _....... ~:: . ~ ~ 

Official Football Review-193 0 


11 Paths of Glory Lead, But Ji 
By ]AMES E. ARMSTRONG Alum11i Secretary · 
N
OT everyone follows them. . · The new Notre Dame Stadium presents a peculiar ·COntradiction to all that is venerated in proverb. The world, the ancients said, will beat a path to your door, provided you have something the world wants. Yet in this first year the world,. apparently wanting Notre Dame football like nobody's business, has done any­thing but pack down the dirt around the gates of the stadium; And not only need the way not be beaten-it . is advertised, plentifully marked, and open. by air, land and water. . " Economic conditions unquestionably have played. a part. But the same person who cries to Heaven for vengeance on the :five-dollar dedication ticket, which comes once in the lifetime of an ordinary stadium, will question the latc:;t musical comedy if tickets sell for less. And these run nightly for far too long a stret'ch, and aside from the un­certainty of the continued blondeness of the star, there is little difference in musicomedy technique from year to year. Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Evanston, Chicago and Los Angeles could not hold the crowds that clamored this season to see what is widely heralded as Notre Dame's greatest team, and that means to most people the game's greatest team. Three times as many persoris have seen the team in the :five games away from home· as have seen the :five home games. The :five home games would, on the other hand, have accommodated twice as many, assuming capacity crowds; · . · Why, then, does Notre Dame dra.w fewer persons at home that a high school game played in the same Stadium? Echo answers, why? . Rockne's schedule for the 1930 season was early d~bbed 

"suicide." The home :field was given :five games that prac­tically any home :field in these United States would have welcomed. Southern Methodist, the most dangerous, col­orful representative from the Southwest, opened the season. to a Stadium less than. half full for its initial contest; Navy, one of the country's two great Service teams, with all the tradition, all the attraction of Annapolis, and no ' little rivalry with Notre Dame to seas!Jn the battle, played the dedication game before more than 10,000 vacant scats. Carnegie Tech, heralded as the most powerful team in the country, coming to Notre Dame with advance storm signals flying, admittedly bent on another of its distress­ing series of victories over Notre Dame, faced a Stadium more than a third empty. Indian·a, the official university 
,eleven of the sovereign state of Indiana, could not muster 25,000 native sons into the new structure. And· Drake, which has never failed to give Notre Dame an interesting game, always displaying the reason-for-being of its nick­name "Bulldogs," was hardly able to get afull attendance of the Ushers Club. 
All the Notre Dame stars who appeal so strongly to the East and \V/est coasts were in action on the· home :field.. Rock was there.. The University and visiting bands were there. Qualified officers were there." A touchdown .counts as much. The :field is regulation size. There is as much opportunity for an upset. 
Don't you· wonder what is lacking? Don't you wondet ~f a~ything is lacking, that can't be supplied without go­mg mto the field of unemployment, cyclical panics, etc. 
Notre Dame home games, barring an occasional epic such as Nebraska or Minnesota, when the visiting oppo­nents' scouts filled most of old Cartier stands, have never drawn. 
(Continued on p~ge 110) 

-·~~ 54 '}~··­



·THERE ·is a saying of the philosophers that in . every change something is lost and something . is gained and something abides. On last Oct. 4, Notre Dame's football team said goodbye to old Cartier field to launch a new era in a new stedium, and in this .change also there was something which abided. It was the old turf and the tradition of victory which went with it. 
Football coaches have used many methods of keying up their teams. They've exhorted 'the boys to do their best for Alma Mater, for the old grads, for their mothers and fathers, for their brothers and sisters, their· classmates and the home town folks. · 
But Notre Dame boys do not stand in need of pep talks such as these, for every time they trot out upon the sod of Cartier field, now transplanted to the new stadium, they have that tradition of victory to spur them on, know­ing that they are playing u'pon turf which has been pounded by the flying heels. of heroes of former days. 
This greensward has know.,!l the tread of Lou Salmon, Ray Eichenlaub, Knute Rockne, Gus Dorais, George Gipp, the Four Horsemen and· countless unsung warriors 'Yho have brought Notre Dame from obscurity to football su­premacy; For twenty-three years no Notre Dame team knew defeat upon ths turf, and the snapping of this. vic­tory string by Carnegie Tech in 1928, was avenged by a new band of football players who are keeping. the pace set by the greatest of their predecessors. 
The sod of Cartier field is the tie which links this new 
team to a glamorous past. And what is this past which. ha~ 
the power to put fire into tiring playe .l and make them 
carry on? Here are a few of the char-Lers, following one 
another like the chords of the victory march. , 
\Vay back in 1887 the story begins with an 8 to 0 de­
feat at the hands of Michigan. Then followed games 'vhich 

Something 

By ARCH \VARD 

(Sj1orts Editor Cbicago' Tribu11e) 
UV' 

seem incongruous from. today's point of view. A few of the opponents-Illinois ·cycling Club, Indianapolis Artil­lery, Englewood High School. 
Then in 1898, the prowess of Salmon, Hering, and Egg­man drew the interest of what football followers there were in those days and brought games with \Visconsin, Northwestern and Indiana. · 
There came a time when Brownson cainpus, scene of the home games, was no longer adequate and \Varren A. Cartier, class of 1887,·donated the plot of ground which became known as Cartier field. Upon this gridiron Notre Dame suffered a 5 to 0 defeat at the hands of \Vabash in .1905 and then, link by link, the chain of victories lengthened. . 
Notre Dame's power grew and presently .. Dorais to Rockne" became the gridiron's counterpart of ..Tinker to Evers to Chance." This was the beginning of the golden age of Notre Dame's football history. The Irish now were nationally recognized as big time players. New seats were added to Cartie.r field, for football crowds were growing. . . . · 
Seasons passed and still the victory march continue~ over the chalk lines of C~rtier field~... Then came George Gipp, who has been called half-brother' to the wind. Every­body knows his story-how he became so great that news­paper men would say that Notre Dame had two teams upon the field~George Gipp and his ten mates; how he ended his football career by helping his team win a bril­liant victory over Northwestern, and how he died three weeks later. 
It was thought that Notre Dame's prowess had reached · its greatest height in George Gipp's last year. \Vhere would Coach Rockne, who had been at the helm since 1918~ find men to take the place of Anderson, Kiley, 
(Continued on page 106) 

I 
1;.·:.' 
H .. 
1 
..'·'
I
I; 
!': 
j: 
~~ 
.; 
1 
-~~Jf 5 5 k,Eo··~ 


Official Football Review-1930 

On the Other Side of the Fence 
By ]ACK ELDER 

JACK ELDER 
I 
SHOULD have entitled this article uLooki~g at the Game From the Pressbox,'' uRcflcctions of a Has Been," or perhaps, to instill ;some of the 
Horatio Alger spirit into the thing, ccWatching the Boy5 Carry On." But since none of these titles struck me as being quite appropriate I hit on the idea which is made real by. the passing of years and have called it, what we cchas beens" are doing, ((Looking at the Game From the Other Side of the Fence." 
·People often ask the fellows, who have. done their bit for Notre Dame on the gridiron and have passed on, just what sort of feeling they have now that they must watch the game from the sidelines or a sea.t in the s:ands. . 
But to tell all the feelings expcnenccd whtlc watchmg a game now, after ha.ving played, would more than fill a book. Every tough situation: the fellows out on the field get into is just as tough for the fellows who arc looking on. So strong is the desire to uget back in there" that at times it's hard to keep your seat beside the best girl or to keep from biting your nails or tearing your hair. 

The emotions become so upset at times that one is tempted to pull the same stunt a Navy player once pulled in an important game. · \Vhilc sittit?-g on the bench wait­ing for that call which would send him into the game, this Navy back saw an opposing half-back weave his way through the Sailors' line, cut out to the sidelines and outsprint the safety man for what seemed to be a su~e touchdown. But tha.t old spirit which prompts men to udo or die for dear old Alma Mater" got the best of this lad and he ran out and hauled down the fleeting back from behind. 
Although this sounds funny it is really a fact and even though this young sailor is the firs~ one to carry out the plan I'm sure it had been formulated in the breasts of many youths before him. 
\Vhile we arc on the other side· of the fence we must realize that our playing days are over. \'{!e must realize that we have served our time and must move·on and give more sprightly youth its chance to gather the fruits of victory for our Alma Mater. 
But this realization need not be carried so far as to lead us to discard all ambitions of ever donning' the moleskins again. Even as this is being written, a group of e.x:­gridders. arc out on h_istoric Cartier Field preparing for their final bow, a charity show. These men who you remember as making up the personnel of teams· from 1921. to 193 0 carved their names on va.rious gridirons of the country with cleated shoes and are back again because they love the game and all that it means to them. And in spite of the training grind which is die most provoking part of football, these men arc back at it again solely for 
the chance of again meeting their old pals and working and sweating together. · -· The most common fault of the inhabitants of this side of the fence is their readiness to criticize. Picking out 
(Continued on page Ill) 


U1tivenitJ' of Not1·e Dame 
r 
! 
l 
j 
i 
! I 


11 Refreshments -for Newspapermen" 
B)' \"VARREN BROWN Sj10rts Editor, Chicago Herald-Examiner 
P
EOPLE who write in glass press boxes, 
shouldn't throw bouquets. 

But I can't help it. That new Not~e Dame cage for cnttcs is the feature of the stadium. And was, from the start. No matter how many of those c~mcrete rows arose, empty, to annoy the finer sensibilities of Art Haley, the cage for the critics was always sure of a capacity attendance. One never did realize how many newspapermen there must be in the world, until he tried to circulate in that critics' cage, preferably at half time, and one second after announce­ment had been made that refreshments were. t~ be served, to newspapermen .. 
The last two words were always superfluous. 
A newspaperman has only a certain amo~~t of game­

. After all, a journeyman newspaperman doesn't come to Notre Dame for refreshments. 
H7 c.om~s, for the m~st part, to cover football games, and 1t 1s h1s own fault 1f he doesn't do an ample job of coverage. 
Arrangements were such, in the two games that I wit­nessed from the critics' cage, that coverage followed the lines of least resistance. The aides of Joe Petritz did every­thing but write for the visitors. 
Here and now, I wish to return my somewhat belated thanks for a real service rendered. 
Mr. Petritz and his· aides did a noble job of blocking (and mayhap some tackling) of the added starters, so that newspapermen who had come to cover were not forced instead, to take to cover. No more sh;ll this casual" vis­
. itor wonder where Rockne's men learn to block and 
ness, and nont dared trust his spindly shins, to that rush. (Continued on page lOS) -~ 57}:1-­

Official Football Review-1930 



Behind the Tearn 
T
HIS article is not concerned with the synthetic_ 
enthusiasm· of the pep session, the long-winded 
oratory, nor the bally-hoo of' school spirit. It purports simply to tell of the loyalty of Notre Dame ... that masculine, stolid, everlasting loyalty that is the tra­ditional legacy of Notre Dame men. 
Notre Dame backs its football teams. But it's not the torch-lit parades or the blaring of the Victory March, however idealistic, that typifies Irish enthusiasm and loyalty. It's the stuff behind that counts. School spirit means more to Notre Dame than a Drum Yell or holding aloft a blue and gold card betw~en the halves. 
They also serve who only sit and yell. 
Someone has called student celebrations the yard-stick or measu~ing block of school spirit. But in _the instance of the Carnegie Tech pep meeting, mile-stones would have proved an inadequate rule. · . 
There were 3,000 pushing, cheering young chaps stand­ing bare-headed in the Notre Dame gymnasium that night, shouting the praises of Knute Rockne and his boys. They pledged their loyalty then. And the next afternoon they proved it. School spirit ... wild s_houting ... a student body that backs its football team. The harder the battle, then so much the tougher is Notre Dame. 

That's what Tim Galvin had said that night...\V/e've met them toughbefore," he shouted...Notre Dame has al­ways met thcrri tough. But when they get tough, we get tougher!" The student body had liked that phrase. It sounded powerful. Things like that were built up only after generations of men had felt the same way. 
Ed Massa led the shouting; he originated. the Drum Yell; and he helped with Silent Cheering-for these three achievements he is justly deserving a word of praise. Like­wise to Joe Kennedy and to Dave Powers, who assisted. in the yell provoking antics of Cheer Leader Massa. 
Silent cheering was mentioned. Tim Beriitz, chairman of the S. A. C., started it. 800 students, garbed in white sweaters, held aloft cards of vari-colored hues at ·the half. In this manner they spelled· out, movie-like, such phrases as .. \V/ELCOME NAVY" and ..HELLO INDIANA." 
Notre Dame teams arc victorious because they fight until the finish. The student body shows its loyalty in the stand, win or lose, until the final whistle blows. Both of these. reasons are a. composite of why Notre Dame usually-wins. 

U1tive1·sity of 1\{ot,-e Dame 
The Real Notre Dame-­Has It Changed? 
· By FRANCIS \'fALLACE 
T
HIS is written the day after the Southern Cal­
ifornia game. \Vc have just put the boys on the 
train for a triumphant journey ·across the states; 

this climaxed an afternoon spent at the estate of Edward 
Doheny, a principalit)r in the hills of Hollywood as large 
as mythical Graustark and more royal tha·n McCutcheon 
ever, imagined; after leaving the Doheny place we travelled 
by inotor cop convoy to the Paramount lot; saw sweet 
Mary Brian looking disappointed as a little girl because 
plans went wrong and she couldn't be photographed with 
the boys. Then to Fox Hills-and saw movie stars looking 
at Carideo and handsome Tom Conley with the same adu­
lation football players give movie stars. Back to· the hotel 
to read how rabid Coast spo~ts writers break down and 
generously acknowledge that Notre Dame was two touch­
downs better than any ~cam ever coached. 
As I write, a radio in the ~ext room is playing the good 

ol~ Victory March; the Hike Song. The Ambassador, the 
Biltmore and other hotels arc strangely quiet after a wild 
night of celebration of the most modern version of the fall 
of Troy. 
Notre Dame is big stuff. The country is extremely aware 

of the sunshiny lawns of Notre Dame and acutely admir­
ing of everything which comes out of there. 'Newspapers 
will marvel for weeks; Collier's has just finished a series 
of articles by that great writer, King Knutc himself. Col.:­
legc Humor has just finished Huddle, my fiction story of 
Notre Dame fotball, and the story is out in book form and ·may be produced as a movie. 
A,nd I cannt help but compare all of this with the old 

days; to marvel at all of the changes which have taken 
place since I first came to South Bend and asked a copper 
where the Hill Street car came in. · 
That was in 1919. Rockne was jus_t a young football 

coach, beginning his remarkable career after a prep season 
during the S.A.T.C. war year. · 
The big games were with Ncbraska,·Purduc, Indiana and 
our good friend, the Army. If \'falter Eckcrsall gave us a 
writeup everybody was flattered ·and rushed to the old 
newsstand in the basement of the main building ... Those 
were the days when our fondest hope was someday to be 
admitted to the Big Ten. If a New York_ sport writer 
visited the campus it was a sensation. As a rookie rcpor_tcr 
I followed Lawrence Perry around wild-eyed . . . ·The 
radio was unknown then-and a magazine article about 
Notre Dame was the last thing any editor would imagine. 
The football field had wooden bleachers which seated 
2500: The student body comprised about 900. If we 
wanted to play Nebraska we had to go out to Lincoln 
every year -nobody ever thought of coming to Notre 
Dame to. play ... Rock was director of athletics, football 
coach, student manager, trainer,. business manager and 
what have you. His one-room office on the second floor 
of the main building was a hodge-podge littered with un­
answered corresoondence • .football equipment, one type­
writer and a roll-top desk against the wall; a desk which 
he never bothered to close. 
\Vhen we went down to the Armv there was one Pull­

man car-and all berths were, crowded. The army game 
was played at \Vest Point before 6000 people and there 
r--~----~~---. 

"For God, Country and Notre Dame" 

were no gate ·receipts . Joe Byrne and his fine old father were the angels who took us to the theatre and to a cabaret for dinner. If the stage comedian mentioned that the Notre Dame team was in the house it was a ter­rific thrill ... \Vhcn we went to Iowa in 1921 the squad made the trip in a day coach ... 20,000 people was a mammoth crowd at a game. The big home games were against Valparaiso, Depauw and Michigan Aggies. 
·Things have changed since the old days. The University has grown in size and prestige; the end is not in sight; Notre Dame has kept pace with its football teams. The· magnitude of its growth is apparent to anyone who visits the campus or re~ds the printed page or listens to comment 
· in any section of 'the country. 
But in all of this change some things have not changed; and these things which remain the same have caused the changes. 
Rock is still Rock; eleven years older and eleven years wiser; but the same keen brain, the same generous heart. the same simple compl~xity, ·the same hard fighter. and game sportsman. . The spirit is still there; the intangible· winning spirit; the democratic atmosphere; the close communion between player and student. · 
The boys have not changed. Tom Conley, Bert 1vletz­·ger, Tom Kassis, Frank Carideo, Marchy Schwartz and Marty Brill are the same types as George Gipp, Johnny 
Mohardt; Eddie Anderson, Chet \Vynne, Buck Shaw, Slip Madigan, Hunk Anderson and all of the older boys ... The Notre Dame athlete is still a hard-hitting, keen thinking chap on the field and a clca~-cut, healthy, modest boy in civics. 
The priests have not changed. Father O'Donnell is th'.! logical development of Father Cavanaugh, Father Burns anrl Father \Valsh. •· 
The bascmct?-t chapel has not changed. And I hope, that as the University continues to grow, it will never even be renovated. For there, where the casual campus visitor seldom goes,_ a spot about which the football public never reads, is to my mind, the real Notre Dame, the constant source of all its change. 



By BERT McGRANE 
Des Moines Tribu11e Staff "\Vriter 
Rockne, the famous coach of the Fighting Irish. He is--waits with his men at the zero hour before a crucial game 
E
VANSTON, ILL.-This is a tale of silence­interminable, boundless silence-ear splitting 
silence. Silence absolute. It is silence that clubs you, holds you, startles you. It is the silence of ·the Notre Dame dressing room, at the zero hour. 
This silence presses in on your car drums. It is strained, unreal. It seems eternal. W c arc in the halflight of a shadowy locker room, deep 
under Dyche stadium. The chalk white walls exude no sound. The pallid reflection from the high windows casts the shadows of the tall black lockers diagonally across the floor. ­
Faintly, through some remote opening, comes the echo of cheering from the crowded stands above. Only the echo breaks the stillness. 

Men, half a hundred of them, clad in the blue and gold of Notre Dame, arc here, waiting. They' arc in uniform, girded for war-grim war on the gridiron. War against and _undefeated and fea-red rival-Northwestern. Notre Dame men have had their short turn on the field for the brief warming up in an oval banked solid with tense humanity. Now they are back in their dressing rooi_U-waiting. Waiting the zero hour. In'_twenty minutes comes the kick-off when all this , repression will be cast aside-when smashing, crashing 'action will case this painful tension. 
The ·minutes tick away. No sound even from Knute 
here, but he is silent. The minutes tick away. I study the face of my watch. Yes; the hands really move. In this strained silence there is nothing to do but study the watch. In a ·restless moment I stir and the creaking of my chair resounds through the tomb-like quarters. Heads are turned but drop again. The men are occupied only with themselves. 
Now, only ten Iri.inutcs remain before the kick-off. Now nine, eight, seven-. \X'ill this silence never· end? Will Rockne never speak? The minutes tick away an'd the in­terminable silence continues: · 
Rockne moves. He looks at one of his men .but says 
nothing. He glances at another, but speaks not. ...Up!" 
Rockne's sharp co·mmand breaks the deathlike stillness. Instantly every man is on his feet. The silence· broken, the atmosphere is electrified. The men stand, eager, strain­ing, inwardly trembling. 
.. My starting .line-up," snaps. Rockne...Conley, Kurth, Metzger, Yarr, Kassis, Culver, Host, Caridco, Brill, Mul­
lins, Schwartz." Rockne bites off every burning· word. He speaks in 
sharp, ringing tones.  Every word is a flaming arrow that  
-··~  
·.  


is painting the scene in colors that are faded indeed. Each· minute every man expects to hc~r Rockne shatter the ·silence with some ·last minute ·instruction, some blast about the battle, but not a sound comes from Rockne. And for eighteen successive minutes the emotions of every Notre Dame man surge up until they reach the bursting point before Rockne speaks~ \Vhen he finally speaks every man is wild for the battle. Silence, not eloquence, keys I them to the :fighting pitch. I 
I 

Notre· Da~e men are coached during-the week-not l 
I

before games. Rockne had no last minute instructions. Four of his regulars went into the game still battered from 
!

their contest witp Drake, but not a· word came from I Rockne about the condition of these men. i I !
V crbal fire rriay be the weapon used by most coaches i to arouse their men to the :fighting pitch but Rockne r reaches his goal with silence. His is the silence of the 
!­

goading, lashing type-the kind that demands an outlet for the emotions yet provides none. \X'hen Ro~kne :finally speaks before a game his sharp, piercing words do more in a few seconds than verbal :fire could do in an hour. 
There must have been silence. of the Rqcknc variety in the Argonne, or at Chateau Thierry, when the men waited for the cold, clammy dawn to go over th~ top. 
60 r~·­
pierces the heart. He tells them what the game means. 
He wants it as clean as a whistle. He wants the backs 
to shift slowly and keep that cadence down. He wants 
!

them to play the game and he wants them to fight, Fight, 
t 

FIGHT! . I. 
That's all. Rockne's talk requires perhaps forty seconds. 
His men dash out of their drc.ssing room. Fifty :fighting 
hearts are pumping as they never pumped before. Fight­
ing blood is coursing through the veins of Rockne's men. 
I had wondered often in the past what procedure Knute 
Rockne followed 'in filling· his men with fire before an 
important game. Rockne· kindly consented to let me 
satisfy my curiosity last Saturday by going with Notre 
Dame team into its dressing room, watching the men pre­
pare for the battle _with Northwestern and hearing with 
my own cars his method of arousing his men. 
If my observations arc correct, strange indeed is the 
Rockne pre-game psychology. It seems to be based much 
more on silence than on any blistering lecture of any 
burning plea that even Rockne might make. 
The Notre Dame team came back to its dressing room ·at 1:40 after spending about. ten minutes in warming. up. 
By actual count not a word was uttered in that dressing 
room uritil 1:58. Thcri came Rockne's dramatic ..Up!" 
and it shattered the silence like. a deafening clap of ·thunder. 
To say that silence is eloquent when Knute Rockne 
U 1tive1·sity of N ot1·e Dame ;:: , 

I 
I 
I. 
I l 
I 
I I 
! 
I· 
I 

! -I 
r 
I 
! 
~ 
f 
I 




By jACK CANNON All-American Guard, 1929 

L.:
TTLE do spectators know of the value .of the football adage, .. keep your eye on the ball." I shall try in a brief way to tell of its importance. In the . 1929 season, Notre · Da·me was proclaimed national champions and many sport writers have termed that team, ..ball-hawks." They have writ­ten reams about its members' alertness in recovering fum­
bles, intercepting passes, . and JACK CANNON general following of the ball. By following the ball on 
every play, the Notre Dame· players easily lived up to their nickname. The Army game of 1929 was played on a frozen gridiron with spectators almost frozen to their seats. One of the· greatest thrills of the season was theirs as they watched the speed-demon, Jack Elder, race through the ferocious Army stalwarts for the coveted touchdown which meant glory for Elder and victory for the Fighting Dragons. 
Elder kep't his team's record from being marred by a scoreless tie by performing this marvelous feat, and the achievement was due entirely to his watching the ball all during the cold afternoon. So also, a lineman must not only ta.ke his opponents out of the play and tackle, but he must keep his eye riveted on the pigskin which passes to new life every tipte i~ is handled. 
Many hard fought, close games are lost because a player momentarily loses sight of the ball. In my opinion, the team that caused Notre Dame the most fright was the Carnegie Tech outfit which kept the ball in almost con­stant motion. Many of our players tackled the wrong man only to find too late that another back, several yar~s down the field was running with. the ball. Their attack was especially deceptive because of the gigantic size of the linemen who formed a visual barrier and enabled members of the rear works to handle the ball with ease. 
On offense, a team must always keep in mind the value of proper handling of the ball. The players must handle the _ball, gracefully, skillfully, and securely. Although most anyone can handle it fairly well with a little practice, it takes a smart player to handle the ball correctly at all times. 
I received the greatest thrill of my career when I pounced on a loose ball on the five-yard line during the · Southern __California game. \VIe were enabled to score our first touchdown when U. S. C. was leading us, 6 ·to 0. Little did I realize· the importance of the play at that ·time, but the 13 to 12 Notre Dame victory tells the story. In the few months I have coached at Alabama Polytech­nic Institute, my first experience in the coaching field has been successful because in ev~ry game. this football adage 
(Continued on page 102) 


Official Football Review-193 0 
According to Our 
Watch-Charm Guards 
By JOHN p. (CLIPPER) SMITH 
Captai11 and All-American Guard, 1927 
T
HE development of the open style of 
play, which found its first great popularity after the Army-Notre Dan:te .game of 1913 when Gus Dorias passed to Knute Rockne all afternoon for a 3 5 to 13 Notre Dame victory, has led to the increasing use o'f the small guard. 
The great Army game of 1913 saw the pass used exten­
. sively for the first time on an Eastern gridiron arid :from that game may be dated the 

rise of the open game used today. Spinners, reverses, ·end­around plays, passes, and wide end runs have· replaced the old, bruising mass plays in which the 200-pound guard was such a vital part. 
Notre Dame's famous coach, Rockne, first as a player and later as a mentor, has been largely responsible for this modern, scientific trend, and he is the one who started the idea of using the «watch charm" guard. Perhaps the most outstanding of these were Capt. John Law of the 1929 team and little Bert Metzger, who has been ac­claimed All-American, for his excellent work during the past season. Metzger won his distinction only after put-­ting to shame men who outweighed him by as much as 40 and 45 pounds, men who themselves were being touted for All-American honors. 
Because of his small size, Metzger had the speed which enabled him to drop out of the· line and cover rapidly on passes, or, on offense, to pull out and lead the interference on wide end runs.. He was also skilled at slipping through an opposing line to ..cold-kock" the ball-carrier before he got to the line of scrimmage, and at piling up a play when it was aimed at his part of the line. ·Several teams on the 1930 schedule boasting a heavy, powerful, full-back with plenty of drive, and using the \V/arner system, aimed ~heir whole offense at Metzger in "an effort to wear him down or sweep his 15 3 pounds aside. His versati~ity of· attack, however, upset all of them and as soon as he sa.w a power play coming his way, he merely dived across the legs .of the opposing center and ·guard and pile~ up the interfer­ence so that there was no hole to go through. 
A heavier man, of course, could do the same thing, but it would be impossible. for a 200-pounder to get out and. lead a set of swift backs, such as Rockne alwa.ys has, to the line of scrimmage on an end run. Pulling the guard out is dangerous· and many serious injuries ha.ve resulted from it. In 1929, Larry Mullins received the knee injury which slowed him up and possibly kept him from All­American honors, when a guard pulled out on the wrong pla.y and Mullins went crashing into him. The guard; was bruised a bit and Mullins was permanently handicapped. 
(Continued on page 100) 


mn;t'CM 
U11ive1·sity of Not1·e Dame 
All-Americans --­
The Apex of the Attack 
By ARTHUR (Bun) BoERINGER 
AII-America11 Center, 1926 
T
HE center position is one of those "nose in the mud" jobs; 

but along with that, it car­ries many fine points which can be brought out scientifi­cally by a man able to take hold in the proper manner and develop all its possibilities. 
I played center all the time I was in any competition, both in high school and at Notre Dame and I have become convinced that this position, like all others, is one which 
·requires ~ore than a season to master. 
My first coaches were Harry Mehrc, now head coach at Georgia, and Joe Brandy. Both were fine men to work with and Harry gave me my first taste of Notre Dame football. . He was a great center himself and a fine passer and he instilled.into me the cardinal principle of all good center play-that a center's first job is to pass the ball and pass it accurately at any distance and at any speed. 
I had hopes some day of getting to Notre Dame and just being a member of "Rock's" squad, and I don't think there was a happier kid in the world than myself when I finally found myself striving along with 100 others for 
· a. chance at big time football. Right· then and there I learned the value of' practice in perfecting passing. A center should throw the ball at a target until it becomes almost second nature with him to make the various kinds of passes. 
My first game was against Beloit and the opposition completed several passes in the territory I was supposed to be covering. I shall never forget the caustic remarks "Rock" made about me at the half. But his criticism was only an incentive to go out there and try · all the 
. harder to do the job right. 
Some of the points I think most ·important, both of­fensively and defensively; I shall try to outline. First, I shall mention passing. The spiral pass is used because, although it 'is harder to make, it is much more effective for speed, accuracy, and ball-handling. The ball is grip­ped by the strings with the right hand and it is given its direction by the left hand for right-handed passers. Good practice is :to swing the ball in an arc between the legs until .this motion is mastered. The weight of the body should never rest on the ball, but should be dis­tributed on the buttocks, and the feet should be as ncar parallel as possible. This stance, a natural one, will resist attack from any angle. Since most running plays go to the right, it is sometimes necessary to advance the right foot a trifle. The' center must master five kinds of passes: a short lob pass to a. back bucking straight in, a pass merely handing the ball to the quarter-back, a pass directly back 
(Continued on p2,;c 101) · 
.-·~~ 


High-Test Football 
By FRANK CARIDEO 
All-American Quarter-back, 1929-30 
N
OTRE DAl\1E 
has just finished 
two years of 

competition without a de­feat against opponents which never once gave the Irish a chance to let down. For 19 consecutive games, the team was called upon to exhibit "High Test Football" in two of the hardest schedules any team has ever played. I firmly believe that no coach but 


Rockne could have taken any team through these man-FRANK CARIDEO killing contests undefeated. As quarter-back both years, it was my responsibility to direct the team's attack, only, however, after Coach Rockne had very carefully mapped the proc'edure of each game in his daily noon lectures. It was he, and not the quarter-backs who went through the scouting reports, mulled over the plays likely to be used by the opposition, and then set about to build up a defense to meet them. It was he, also, who told the quarter-backs how to dis­organize the defense of the opposition by varying plays. It was Rockne who developed what I believe to be the most dazzling array of offensive weapons the game has ever seen and then instructed the quarter-backs which ones to usc each game. \"'0"e were fortunate this season in having Southern Methodist as our first opponent. This team which had passed its way to three Southwest Conference champion­ships in three years with one of the game's most brilliant aerial attacks, gave us our baptism of fire against passes, and the long, accurate throws of Kattman impressed every man with the necessity of fast, complete covering. I think we learned more in this game about defending against passes than fifty lectures could have .told us. Then came · N a.vy and we got our first taste of the \Varner wing-back type of offense in which the spinner, reverse, and man-in-motion formations play such a vital part. After Navy came Carnegie Tech, much more power­ful and with its attack-based on the \Varner system­which was developed to a high point of perfection and interspersed with plays of Coach \'{Tally Steffan's own making. Pittsburgh presented a combination of \Varner, Steffan and Coach Jock S1;1therland in its offensive make-up, but the predominating phase of the Pitt attack was \Varner's system which we had already met· and defeated in two games. Thus, it was not much of a problem to form a defense for the Panthers. Indiana came the next week and again we had to re­organize our defense to meet the tricks Pat Page had in his elaborate. system. Against Pen~sylvania, we ·found the \~_arner system again and were ready for it. Ossie Solem. 
(Continued on p2gc 103) 
63 llfl-­


_::_ ~ .~~~ .._"·....------·­
•I 
I 
~­

Official Football Review-193 0 York Daily News and to write on t'1e changes which have· 1 
taken place since his day.
An. Editorial 
T 
. . 
HE fighting men of Notre Dame, taught to 
fight scientifically and effectively by Coach 
Rockne, have completed another year of foot­ball exploits which bring new laurels and new glory to the feet of Our Lady, whose bea.utiful·image, posed at the top of the Main building of the campus, is a. constant source of inspiration to all men of Notre Dame. 
The plaudits these men have received, the roar of the crowds whose sympathies lie with Notre Dame opponents, and the unfailingly flattering accounts of their games by the sports writers: of the nation from coast to coast are undoubtedly more':impressive than anything Official Foot­ball Review can say in its all too unworthy gesture .of recognition to these warriors. 
Many of the nation's :finest writers and most recognized authorities, however, have cooperated with the staff to make this R(:view what we confidently feel is our best effort, and in:·the publication of the 1930 issue we feel that we have coine closer to our ideal than ever before. We wish to take this opportunity to ·thank our friends who gave generously of their time and talents and contributed gladly without the least question of monetary return. 
One of the best known sports ca.rtoonists in the coun­try, the one at least we think is the best~ is Feg Murray whose striking drawings are syndicated to papers through­out the country. He contributed his genius and ·much of his valuable time to the Review to make the impressive sketch which appears on page 61. 
\Varren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago Herald­Examiner, who delights each Fall in singing the praise of Rockne and Notre Dame both in his scintillating column and in his news stories, became so effusive about the Notre Dame press box one day that we asked him to write us a story about it. \Ve still feel, in spite of his statement that ..The rap is a bum one," that his scathing article in the 1928 Review concerning the old Cartier :field press coop led directly to the new elaborate box for scribes. 1 
Bert McGrane, of the Des Moines Register-Tribu11e, which by some miracle of management boasts a circula­tion twice the size of its town, one day dropped in. on Notre Dame to write a series of feature articles about the university from a number of different angles. All were so good that the North American Newspaper Alliance carried them throughout the country and we secured Bert's kind permission to reproduce what we thought to be his best, his description of .. silence that grips you", for our readers. 
A number of prominent writers who formerly attended Notre Dame were so moved by school spirit and perhaps a touch of pride in the 1930 team that they have sent in their works for your approval. Arch \Vard, sports editor of the Chicago T,ribu11e, took enough time off from his very pressing duties· to tell how tradition was built at Notre Dame. He was here when tradition was in the making and it was his work as Notre Dame's first pub­licity director, that did much to put the team before the public eye 1when Rockne was first gaining recognition with his great teams. He really knows his ·subject, and his way of putting ideas on paper is marvelous, no less, to us. 
Frank \Vallace, a later publicity director at the school, and the author of Huddle, a novel dealin~ with Notre Dame's heroes, traditions, and customs, which was recentlv released in book form after its enthusiastic reception in College Humor, consented gladly to let us use his descrip­tion of the Northwestern game which was in the New 

Our former all-American stars also ·shunted their coach­ing duties to the side to give you their colorful accounts of Notre Dame football. Arthur (Bud) Boeringer, a fighting fool of a. center who won all-American recogni­
I 

tion in 1926, offers advice for young, up and coming 
I

pivot men and tells of his own experiences. Jack (Boom 
I 
I t

Boom) Cannon whose headgearless exploits of 1929 won 
him the all-time all-American distinction of several au­thorities, also has something to say in this issue in his II humorous way. John (Clipper) Smith, who led the 1927 team and distinguished himself as one of Rockne's best ..watch-charm" guards, adds his. bit of praise, most of which consists in telling how good Metzger and Johnny Law were. He must have been rather able himself to win his mythical laurels. Finally, Frank Carideo, the keen, I icalculating, inspiring field general of the 1928-29-30 ! elevens, who twice has had the laurel wreath came to rest i I on his classic brow, has reviewed the 193 0 season and has I told some of the "inside" on what makes Notre Dame win. ! 
One of the greatest of Notre Dame stars -was Jack I Elder, the soft-spoken lad from Kentucky, who also dis: ' tinguished himself as one of Notre Dame's greatest track 
I 

performers. His talents as a wr~ter, capably developed 
I

by the Notre Dame department of English, we~e .exploited immediately on his graduation by the Chic_ago Heralcl­Examiuer and he tells you, in the Review, some of the I emotions he feels when he is nibbling a pencil in the press box and. his former mates are in a tight_ spot. 
I 
i

Grantland Rice, of the North American Newspaper Al­liance; Paul Mickelson, of the Associated Press; Charles Egan, of the United Press; \Vilfred Smith, the Chicago Tribune's football expert; George Shaffer, of the Tribu11e's press service; Jess Carver, of the Sttu. TelegrajJh in Pitts­burgh; Robert Kelley of the New York Times; and Frank I Brody of the Des Moines Register all gave instant permis­I sion when asked if we might reproduce their articles which we picked as the best on each of Notre Dame's games. I 
ro J arpes E. Armstrong, secretary of the Notre Darrie . 
l

Alumni association, who scolds with characteristic alumni 
i· 

secretary enthusiasm about the people who stayed away I' in millions from Notre Dame's home games, we also extend I our thanks and congratulations on a crisp, well written I i 
I

piece which should shame these radio rooters into coming 
l 
f

out in abundanc~ next season. 
Last in recognition, but· not least by any means in our f heartfelt appreciation are the boys on the campus, the 
f 

embryo novelists, short-story writers, playwr~ghts, and i journalists who mad_e careful studies of their subjects and then wrote them interestingly and ·well. ·To Bob Gorman, Neil Hurley, Eddie Britz, John Kiener, Bob Balfe, and Frank· (Spike) McAdams-o.ur. sincere thanks for your untiring efforts .. These good friends took time from their classes, their amusements, and their numerous campus ac­tivities to do the bidding of the Review .whenever the Review so much as hinted that they could be of assistance. 
To the publicity directors of the following schools we also wish to express our appreciation: \Va.rren A. Roach, Southern . Methodist; Lieut. Comm. F. G. Reinicke, 
U. s.··N.; Max E. Hannum, Carnegie; Fred Turbeyville, Pitt; Frank R. ·~lliott, Indiana; Joseph T. Labrum, Penn; 
E. C. Lytton, Drake; \Valter M. Pa.ulison, Northwestern; Capt. W. H. Wells, Army; ·and Alfred F. Wesson, South­ern California. All cooperated splendidly in furnishing rna terial needed from 'their schools. 

U1tiversit·y of Nof1·e Da11te 

Official Football Review-1930 

Notre· Dame 20 Southern ·Methodist 14 
,  Not over-rated  was  the  :fighting  band  of  Mustangs  Coach  
'  Ray Morrison brought to Notre Dame to open unofficially a new  
era  in Notre Dame football history.  Their record of winning  
three Southwest  conference  championships in  three  years  and  
their reputation as perhaps the leading exponent of the forward  
pass made them a team to be feared when they stepped into the  
newly opened Notre Dame stadium.  
Admittedly they had been. pointing for Notre Dame since the  
game was' scheduled in  the fall  of 1929 and it  was  not  long  
before  the fact  became  apparent  that they  were  out  to.  win.  
·Playing in midseason form against an Irish band that. was fight­ 
ing but that had notyet hit its stride, they carried the battle to  
Notre Dame's shock troops with their reckness~  vicious attacks.  
RAY MORRISON S. 1\[. U. Coach My boys, tho11gb defeated, til· · jo)·ed their trip to Soutb Bmd. Thry 111ill lo11g remember the cortrlesies shorv11 them by Notre Dame stttJmts a11d officials, a11d ibeir o11e desire is to repay thcsr cortrlesies, a11d perhaps the defeat, i11 the 11ear /lttrtre.•  Undaunted by the fact that their regular quarter-b'ack, Bob Gilbert, was on the sidelil).es, they played smart, heads-up foot­ball with Bruce Kattman, rubber-armed ball hea.ver, tossing the swineskin all over the Cartier sod. Every year, coaches divide their time between developing an attack and forming a defense. Coach Rockne in.' three short weeks, had not much of a chance to work out any plan to stop the glorified basketball. used South­ern Methodists' red-jersied warriors, but he met Morrison's  BILL SKEETERS S. 1\!. U. Captain I have m11ch resprct /or Notre Dame's football team a11d coach. Their block.i11g was far s11prrior to a11y I had previously srm, a11d 011 defeme their ferocious tack.li11g could 110t help bci11g r/]rclir•e. Rock.11r's 1930 team is the best I har•e rver played agaimt.  .  
strategy with some of his own.  ·  

Morrison's· theory is that if enough passes are throw.n, the in the open field; Kattman's 38-ya.rd pass to Koontz for a law of averages will work to the completion of some of. touchdown, Carideo's return of a Mustang punt from the them. Rockne added that by the same omen, a number 39 to the 11-yard line from which Notre Dame scored in would be intercepted. His strategy la.y, however, in meet­
. two attempts; Larry Mullins' 60-yard run that was called ing passes with passes not so many of. Notre Dame's were back; and. Carideo's pass to Kosky for 25 yards which set· intercepted. 
the stage for the winning touchdown in the last quarter.
Highlights were Mason's pass to Kattman to put the Rockne was thankful because his team had· survived .its 

ball on the two-yard line in the first quarter and Hopper's baptism of fire and had proved itself capable of stopping
ensuing _plunge for the touchdown; Joe Savoldi's return of the next kick-off; Ed Kosky's steady work at end; Joe passes, and because it fought to the last ditch and proved 
Kurth's brilliant tackle of Mason who was runing full ti}t itself, thereby, a representative Notre Dame team. 

Schwartz slices off right tackle for five yards and Notre Dame's second touchdown. 

U1ziversity of N ot1·e Dame 
Irish Horsemen Hamstring S. M. U. Mustangs· 
Heroes of the Day 
Ed Kosky and Tommy Yarr, left end and center respectively, both rose from no­where to fame with the varsity, quietly, un­obtrusively, and stamped themselves great in the first game. · 
Yarr's deadly tackling and backing up of the line against the dizziest pass attack Notre Dame met all year was outstanding. He made three interceptions in the last few minutes of play to stave off a desperate S. 
M. U. attempt to tie. 

Kosky, with four minutes to go, mad:! a beautiful catch of Schwartz's long pass to take the ball from deep in Notre Dame territory to the Mustang 27 -yard line. This pla.y gave the Irish new ·life, Conley was in­terfered with on i::he five-yard stripe on the next one, and -Schwartz plunged over to break a 14 to 14 deadlock and give N otr:! Dame victory. 
By WILFRED SMITH (Cbicago Tribu11e Press Service) TOMMY YARR 
South Bend, Ind.,· Oct. 4.-A hard riding band. of Tex­Quickly Carideo called one more signal. Schwartz, be­a_ns from Southern Methodist university this afternoon hind perfect interference, rushed over the prostrate lines­raced· up and down the sod of old Cartier field, now trans­men, cut sharply inside to left end and plunged full length planted in Notre Dame's new stadium. Their spectacular, with the ball an arm's leng~h across the goal. accurate tossing nearly ruined the informal dedication of Southern Methodist performed to the expectations of Notre Dame's brick bowl, but the home boys managed to the hundreds who had followed them on their invasion. eke out a 20 to 14 victory. Mustangs Score Quickly 
Far into the final quarter the red shirted Texans bat­Southern Methodist scored its first touchdown in four tled the Irish squad with honors even, 14 to 14. The Red plays. The third play, a pass from Mason to Kattman, Shirts, led by Bruce· Kattman, whose pitching arm rarely gained 48 yards and put the ball two yards from Notrl! failed to spiral the ball to a speeding end or back, scored Dame's goal line. Hopper followed with a thrust· over in each period. of the first half. They tackle for the six paints and Long 



crashed through Notre Dame's shock troops, and then in the second quarter repeated the score against the first eleven. 
Crash Over in Last 4 Minutes 
But Notre Dame also had crossed the Mustangs' goal 'in e.ach quarter. Thus the players came back to. wage a battle which Notre Dame·:-repeatedly~ threat­ened to win, but couldn't. Then came the last four minutes, four minutes in which the' Irish, responding to the steady roaring cheers from the west stands, went on to victory. 
Twice before Notre Dame had been stopped, thrust back by the desperate 
resistance of the Mustang line. Then again the ball be­longed to the Irish just two yards from midfield; 
Marchy Schwartz dropped back. Then he passed to Ed Kosky, who was tackled on the Methodist 27-yard line. Again Schwartz spiraled the ball, this time to Capt. Tom Conley. Conley leaped and as he leaped, Gene Hamister sent him sprawling to the turf. The officia~s ruled the pass completed and Notre Dame had the ball four yards from the goal line. 
LINEUPS 

Notre Dame S. M. U. Kosky_______L. E,______ Koontz Culver_______L, T._~ _____Tate Kassis_____...:_L. G, ______Neeley 
Yarr---------C,_______Powell 
Metzger___,__ R. G. ______Reilly Donoghue _:__R. T._____ Skee.te~s , 
Conley______ R. E. ________ Long Carideo ______ Q, B, __.,_'-Kattman Schwartz____L, H,______Mason Brill________R. H,_____ Hopper Savoldi______F, B.__ .__ Sprague 
. 
kicked for the seventh. 
Only·a minute later Joe Savoldi, the curly haired Italian, received the kick­off, fumbled momentarily, and · then raced down the center of the field 98 yards for a touchdown. Chuck ]ask­which kicked the point. 
Early in the second quarter Frank 
.•.Car:ideo . ..rcturned, a Mustang punt,-,and the . second touchdown was manufac­tured. A penalty for holding had shoved S. M. U. back so that· Ka.ttman punted from behind his goal li~e. Carideo took the ball and raced 29 yards to the S. M. U. 11-yard stripe. Two plays, the second a five-yard· slice 

off tackle by Schwartz, crossed the final chalk mark. Carideo kicked the point. 
\Vith a few minutes of the· half remaining, Mustang passes accomplished a second and tying score. Kattman to~sed from his own 20-yard line to Long for 16 yards. Then he sent another which was ruled completed at Notre Dame's 3 8-yard line. A third time Kattman passed. Koontz, running wide, grabbed the ball just out of Ca­rideo's reach and staggered the remaining six yards. 



Official Football Review-19J 0 

Notre Dame­26 Navy 2 

The color and brillia~cy of the new Notre Dame stadium dedication (see pg. 47) was surpassed only by that of the Fight­
I

ing Irish in their decisive victory immediately after the exchange of bonhomie by officials of the Naval academy and the University of Notre Dame. I 
The Middies, weaker on offense than is usual with them, played brilliant defensive ball, but could not penetrate the sev­I 
I

eral staunch sets of linemen that Rockne placed in their way. The day was warm and "Navy Bill" Ingram was without the reserve strength necessary to reenforce his faltering, tiring reg­ulars. Navy, like Notre Dame, has many fine traditions and the Middies, stung by three previous defeats at the hands of the Irish, fought in vain to redeem these beatings. 
Even after Gallopin' Joe Sa.voldi, playing full-back with the
W. A. INGRAM R. M. BOWSTROM 

I
Navy Coach varsity in place of injured Larry Mullins, had conducted three Navy Acting Capt. 
l
. · 111 my opitziotz, not o11ly tVas a .. 

touchdown excursions and had bee~ removed from the game . As captaill elect of the Navy
/i11e 1zew stadium dedicated at team that played Notre Dame I·South Bend, in the Navy-Notre after piling up 123 yards in 11 trips, the Middies dug in their Oct. 11, I have bem requested i Dame game Oct. 11, but in ad­by the eutire squad to express
ditioll there tvas 1zshered in the cleats and drove desperately down the field to the seven-yard line I 
our uuited respect aud appre­greatest Notre Dame tram n•er 

before they lost the ball on an incbmpleted pass on fourth down. ciation of Notre Dame's fiue 
'to appear i11 the history of football spirit, clea11 playftzg
football. Something more than spirit was needed, however, to stop the and mauly cotzduct both o11 atzJ I I off the field.
steady march of the Irish backs as they began to sense the power · I that was theirs. Showing great improvement in blocking, they t·· . 
I 

sw~pt._the ends, knifed through tackle, and bucked center the eight hard games still to come. Of the shock troops, behind the. ·p~ifect driving. of an eager line. none was more brilliant than Clarence Kaplan, third string right half, who made a bid for fame on two runs that
The first hint of what was to follow ·in ensuing games 

took the ball 71 yards to the Navy 2J-yard line. Bernie
was given as they piled up 352 yards from scrimmage to I 
Leahy then dashed to the two-yard line and Fritz StaabNavy's 64. 
plunged over. Kaplan totaled 96 yards in six attempts­
To Savoldi went most of the glory and it ~vas deserved I
and he's with the third team. 
by him because of his. speedy dashes to the goal on three 

The game was the fourh of a four-game series, but it occasions. Credit also must go to those who paved the 
was understood at the close of the season that the contract way for him and to the willing reserves whose able. hand­is to be renewed and the scrapping Middies will continu~ ling of the situation allowed the varsity to save itself for to make history against the Fighting Irish. 
I 
I 
.f I 
I ! 
i 
I 

c 
I 



,· 
~-. 
: 
•, 

U11iversity of Notre Dame 
Savoldi Leads Attack ·and· Middies Surrender 

Heroes of the Day 
Tom Kassis; against Navy, not only played his usual strong offensive game, but his defensive work was nothing short of spectacular. Against a wing-~ack style of attack, his job is to hold the spinning quarter-:back and. to keep him from get­ting clear-and without using his hands! Tom not. only did this, but often broke through for brilliant tackles behind th~ line of sc.rimmage. 
Gallopin' Joe Savoldi was the· offe~sive hero of the Navy game with his three runs of 53, 23, and eight yards for ~ouchdowns. Given the ball. 11 times in the short time he appeared' against the Middies; Joe piled up 123 yards from scrimmage for an 'aver­age of 11 yards a trip.· 
By' CHARLES M. EGAN TOM KASSIS JOE SAVOLDI
{Uuited Press Staff CorresjJOndent) 
Notre Dame Stadium, South Bend, Ind., Oct; !I.­eight· yards. Frank Caridco, last year's all-Amcric:an · Notre Dame christened its swanky new football stadium quarter-back, converted two of his tries for the extra. point. today by defeating the United States naval academy 26 Subs Aid in Scoring to 2. The victory served notice on the football world To bear out wha.t the experts say about the lesser lights that Knute Rockne's colorful team again will be prom­among his 100 odd . players, Rockne's men scored the inent in the race for the mythical na-tional championship. final touchdown with a group of third and fourth string­
The story of the game is chiefly the story of jumping ers. The tally was credited to Frl.tz Staab, an obscure Joe Savoldi, a _powerfully built Italian youth from Three full-back but it was Clarence Kaplan, a fast ·stepping. Oaks. ·They say Joe throws rivets for-the iron ,\rorkers back from Minnesota, who did most of the work. -. 
during his summer vacations. This afternoon he threw Starting fro.m deep in his own territory, Kaplan dash~£! 
Navy Bill Ingram's best tacklers right  to Navy's 23-yard line on two brilliant·  
and  left  while  he  galloped  down  the  runs.  Bernie Leahy went  to  the  one­ 
transplanted Cartier field sod of the new stadium for three of his team's  LINEUPS  yard mark on the next play and Staab went over the goal a moment later.  
four touchdowns. Dashes 23 Yards Savoldi is weak on the  defensive  Notre Dame Navy Kosky _______L. E._______ Smith Culver~---·--L· T,__ Bowstrom Kassis__:_ _____ L. G. __Underwood  Navy was outclassed throughout and averted. a shutOtit only because of slips by N'otrc Dame substitutes ncar  
they say,  but if  so  he had  no  chance  Yarr_________c. _________ Black  the end of the game.  
to show any weakness. Playing full­b:tck for the first string because of an injury ·tO Larry .. Moon" Mullins, Joe • ·  Metzger---..,.-R. G. _____Johnson Kurth _______ R. T•._____,_Bryan Conley----. R. E. _____..:._ Byng Ca.rifleo ---·--Q. B._____..:.Bauer  Center Pass is Wild· The score came when center Agnew passed wildly, to :Mahoney who wa.s  
lost.  no  time  in  getting  to  business.  Schwartz ____ L, H._______ Kirn  back  of  his  own  goal  preparing  to  
Early in the second quarter, he broke off Navy's left tackle for a. dash of 23  Brill_______ R. H. ____ Gannon Savoldi ·--~--F. B·----~ Hagberg  punt. Mahoney downed the ball for a safety, giving Navy two points.  
yards and· the first  touchdown of the  Navy  was  in  scoring position only  
game.  twice, the· first time left end Byng, an  

A few minutes later,· he duplicated the stunt, only this adept pass receiver, corralled a pass' from Johnny Gannon time -it was a dash of about 55 yards that preceded the on Notre Dame's 23-yard line. Late in the gan1e, a. poor score. Each time the scoring play was a short lateral 
punt by substitute quarter-back Jaskwhich gave. Navy a pass tossed by Marty Brill, a sturdy half-back who one~ 
chance to carry the ball deep into Notre Dame territory.
spent a brief period at Pennsylvania. 
Rockne's crew took the ball on downs after being forced
In the third· period, Savoldi co~ntcd again, this time back to the two-yard lit:te. .
smashing through the right side of the Navy line for 
. ·;,, 



: ·: 


/ 
;·: 
(! 

i.; 
Official Football Review-1930 

Notre Dame 21 .Car;negie Tech -6 
Every school has its traditions whether they be social, scho­lastic, athletic, or spiritual. Probably no unwritten la.w of athletics is more deep-seated than that which says no Notre Dame team loses a game on its home field. From 1905 until 1928, there was no violation of this rule, but the last game played at home before the old Cartier field stands were razed and the new stadium was built, saw a powerful Carnegie Tech football ma­chine roll over a game, but weakened band of Fighting Irish who had spent themselves the week before defeating Army's great 1928 eleven. ' 
The Skibos, heavier and more powerful than Rockne's valiant group, ploughed through the mud of old Cartier field that day ·to put a blot on Notre Dame's hitherto spotless record. The score was 27 to 7. 
JUDGE WALTER STEFFEN JOHN DRESHAR
Last year at Pittsburgh some measure of revenge was obtained
Carnegie Tech Coach . Carnegie Tech Captain Playittg agaimt Carnegie, Noire when the national champions played conservatively but deter­I have played against Notre Dame was o11e of the best foot­Dame three limes i11 my college
minedly and scored a 7 to 0. victory. That would not do,
ball teams I ever saw. Whm career. I11 1929 your team was thrte a11d four 1tiCtJ are required though, fully to erase the sting of the '28 beating; Notre Dame the best we met all seaso11. But to put dowt1 rumzcrs, the ability il didtt't Iackie as viciously, and determitzatioll of the itldivid­had to trounce the Skibos and trounce them soundly on Cartier block as perfectly or rrm as ual team nztmbers is proved. hard as this year's eltvetz. We
Field sod to gain full vengeance. This heritage fell to the 19 3 0 
Whez1 eleven men move with of Carnegie hoped ear11estly that such Prtcisiotl personalities art team when Rockne had the old sod moved to the new stadium. 19)0 would be our ,·car, but we blended into a beautiful Uttit could 11ol match Notre Dame's 
that a rival coach mrut admire. How the 1930 team 'proved itself equal to its task is now a impired play. 
matter of history. The 21 to 6 score doesn't begin to tell been decisive enough. Notre Dame had kept ·carnegie in 
the story. Had Carnegie kicked its point afte~ Harry its own territory all afternoon with the exception of the Eyth's touchdown run, Tech would have had seven points few seconds Eyth was sprinting to a touchdown~ instead of six; had Rockne left in his regulars for the last 
The team Rockne had predicted to win by from three two m.inutes of play when they were on the Tech two­
to eight touchdowns after his own varsity's poor showingyard stripe with another down to go after. bunting the in scrimmage, was held at bay while the Irish drove, ran,large, experienced Scotch forwards steadily down the field, passed, and kicked their way to as glorious a victory asNotre Dame would have had six more points-and the Notre Dame has ever seen.
score would have been again 27 to 7. · The tradition will go on-fighting men of Notre Dame
..Rock" was content, however, to shoot in his reserves and they, without a chance to warm up, bungled an end­in the future will have their heritage, again I.Uade clean by 
around play that might have scored. The victory had a team 'tha.t came through! 
t 
f 




U1z.ivenity of Notre Dame 

Irish Fury Answers Carnegie ·Challenge 
Heroes of the Day 
Fletcher and Highberger! These two names had become watch-words in the Notre Dame training camp before the Car-: negie Tech game because they belonged to two Skibo tackles who had two years of experience behind them. Rosenzsweig and· ·_ · Flanagan! ·These. were the two Carnegie ends, each of whom had two years also. 
They were supposed to tear through Sophomore Joe Kurth and AI Culver to make all the tackles they wanted to behind the line of scrimmage. They were touted to block Joe and Al in to the center or out,to · the sidelines so their backs could romp p,ast. 
They had the. tables turned on them, however, by the two staunch Irish tackles -and that's just one of the reasons why Kurth and Culver were real heroes in one of · the most heroic stands any Notre Dame team has ever made. 
By pAUL MICKELSON ( rlssociated Press SjJOrts \'(triter) JOE KURTH 
· South Bend, Ind., Oct. 18-(AP)-:--Aroused to a Savoldi, Frank Carideo and Marchy. Schwartz sent the fighting fury, unusual even to their far_..famed fighting Scots back on their own 13-yard line. In a surprise play, spirits, Knute Rockne's Notre Dame players today an-Schwartz tossed a short pass over the line of scrimmage swered another mighty challenge in their march toward to Ed Kosky, who caught it ·as he fell over the goal line. the mythical national football championship by routing Carideo promptly added the first of his three extra points · the, high powered Skibos from Carnegie Tech, 21 to 6. by a placement kick. So 'decisive was the ·victory, earned by an impress.ive After the Scots failed to dent the Notre Dame forward aerial attack and an alertness surprising even to the wall, the Ramblers opened another march that ultimately staunchest Notre Dame rooter, that hopes again bounded combined with one of the breaks of the game to net high in Rockne's heart for another undefeated team. them their second score. On the 25-yard line Schwar.tz 
It was the third straight victory of the season for passed to Conley but Latham Flanagan, substitute Scot Notre Dame and with the bothersome half-back, intercepted the ball on his Scots shoved definitely off the high own 5-yard line, and the drive looked road, Rockne and his fighting men in vain. But on the first play, Melvin rushed happily to.· the dressing room LINEUPS ·Jones, substitute Scot center, threw the with an air of confidence that had Notre Dame Camegie Tecb. pass wild to Armentrout and alert Tom been missing so far this season; .In-Host________L, E . .:..Roscnzswcig Kassis pounced on it,· giving Notre stead of being defeated by "two . or Culvcr_______L. T.__ Highbcr"" Dame the ball on Tech's two-yard line. three" touchdowns as ..Rock" had Kassis _____:...._L, G. __ ·-· Drcshar Schwartz plowed through the center of· predic.ted, they had turned the predic-Yarr_________c.______Ducanis the line on the first play for a touch­tion almost around. Mctzgcr_____ R, G.__ ---Sample down; ·carideo added the extra point,
Kurth _______ R, T.__ ·-.Flctchzr . . N D • 1 d More experienced and more· confi-Conlcy_______ R. E. __ L. Flanagan mcreasmg otre arne s ea 14 to 0. dent, the Scots fought the Ramblers Caridco _____ Q. B.____ McCurdy Eyth Runs 72 Yards on even terms for just the. first period Schwartz ____ L. H. ________ Eyth The Skibos, fighting the inevitable, today. After that the battle took on BrilL_______ R. H, _______ Kavcl came back at the start of the third the customary Irish complexion and Savoldi ___.:. __ F. B. __ . ____Karcis period, however. Howie Eyth received what had been advertised as a .. one Carideo's kick-off and raced it back to point" game turned into a crushing . · . his own 12-yard stripe. Eyth and Ros-and unexpected Notre 'Dame triumph-the sixth in eight enzsweig lugged the ball to the 18-yard line and then Eyth years for the Rockne .rhen over Tech. reeled off the classic dash of the game-a. 72-yard sprint Open Bag of Tricks· for Tech's only score. Held by a Skibo stone wall in the first period, Notre Notre Dame then ripped the Scot line to shreds, ad­_Dame got into action in double quick time soon after th<;! vancing by line smashes and lateral passes to its 44-yard second· period opened and won the gam~ in about .ten line. Schwartz stepped back and heaved a 41-yard pass to minutes during which they ripped open thetr box of tncks Conley, who. raced 15 yards to score. C;trideo's place-kick that baffled the Skibos. Spinners, reverses, line smashes split the uprights. The game ended with the Scots throw-and lateral criss-cross plays carried by Marty Brill, Joe ing passes all over the lot. 
-··~:{ 71 J~1-·-. 

Official Football Review-193 0 

Notre Dame 35 Pittsburgh 19 
Against Carnegie Tech, Rockne's 1930 warriors won the re­spect of the football world, for they had fought with an in­spired courage and had won on sheer grit; against Pittsburgh, they commanded in addition the awe and amazement of grid­iron fans with their perfect coordination and. polish as a team. \Vith Marchy Schwartz in the van, they descended upon Pitt with an offense that could not be stopped,-with team-play that 
·was ncar-perfect. They had been through the buffing stage and now stood, like a. shincy new car, the ideal machine. Rumor before the game had it that bettors were offering 
heavy odds that Notre Dame could not possibly beat Carnegie _and Pitt on successive week-ends. When Rockne was forced . to use his first string 58 out of the 60 minutes of play against 
Carnegie, the odds rose. Pitt had been .. undefeated in 1929 EDDIE BAKER 
Pittsb11rgb Captain

through its regular season and had lost only to Southern Cal­
"\Vt: u·t:rt: bt:~ten by a guaf

ifornia in· a post-season battle on the Coast. They had been tram. Captaill Co11lry a11J· his mm plaJt:J barJ a11J brillia11fly
runners-up' to Notre Dame for the national championship. and 
but at all limn clra11ly, a11d they were pointing for this chance to prove their superiority as tbr .brst of feelillg pm•ailed 
throughout." · 

no Pitt team before them ever pointed. Notre Dame, although no one connected with the team or' the school has ever been quoted as claiming a title of any kind, ~as also keyed to prove that the distinction given them· by the 
press and the public in 1929 was m~rited. First Schwartz then Mullins, theri. Savoldi twice, and finally Koken crossed the Panther goal in the first half
Rockne's strategy in this game was .no small factor in with touchdowns either on long runs of their own behindthe victory. Against U. S. C., Pittsburgh had been passed perfect interference or as climaxes to the excursions. ofto death and it was no secret. that Pitt feared Notre Dame's Brill, O'Connor, and Kaplan.

passing attack which had worked so well against Southern 

. Methodist· and Carnegie. Jock Sutherland had built his Notre Dame had hit its stride and the clawing scrap­defense to meet an air raid. So Rockne told Frank Ca­ping Panthers who came back to score thrice in the second rideo, his dependable field general, not to throw a pass all half against the shock troops could not reorganize. in time afternoon. The success of the Irish running attack that to offset the damage done by ~he hard-hitting, bullet­afternoon at Pittsburgh speaks for this plan of action. blocking 'varsity as it unleashed its fury in the first half. 





Schwartz getting away 'on his 60-yard run that started the fire-works.' -··4~1 72 k*­

-Horsemen Victorious over Clawing Panthers 

Heroes of tbe Day 
So impressive was the work of the Notre Dame team as a whole against Pittsburgh that we wanted to run the pictures of the first four teams here, a characteristically impossible idea. 
Marchy Schwartz was an outstanding 
· hero because he took the· ball on the first play and ran 60 yards for a touchdown. This brilliant run lighted the fuse for the dynamite that blew up only to come down in the form of a 35 to 19 victory. Marchy made I 09 yards in eight attempts at carry­ing the ball. · 
Joe Savoldi, who had been kept from mythical team consideration in 1929, be­cause he was "weak against passes" inter­cepted one of Pitt's and ran ·some 30-odd yards to score. He also piled up more than his share of yards on straight football' and backed up the line like a demon. 
By JEss CARVER 
JOE SAVOLDI 

(Sports Editor, Pittsburgh Stm-TelegrajJh) MARCHMONT SCHWARTZ 
Pittsburgh, Oct. 26.-Irish fire and lightnin:g struck the get past Baker and Williams, and then ran around Daugh­gridiron defenders of Pitt yesterday afternoon, blasting erty, chasing most of the 60 yards in a· straight line. The through the battle lines of the Panthers in a chaotic first­run was so unexpected that the crowd almost· forgot to half a~tack that eventually netted the great Notre Dame cheer. eleven a 35-to-19 triumph. 
Brill, Schwat:_tz, and Mullins worked the ball to the one­
A record crowd of better than 70,000, which filled the yard line shortly after, and "Moon" bucked over for the Stadium to overflowing, sat stunned as the green-clad Irish second touchdown. Jumpin' Joe Savoldi, who had repbced backfield and hard-charging, perfectly~drilled line brushed Mullins, recovered \Villianis' fumble and alternated with aside the hopeless Panthers. Then, realizing that a great Brill in putting the oval again on the one-yard stripe as football team was performing before ~heir eyes, recognizing the quarter ended. He jumped over for Notre Dame's in it one of the greatest that has ever played in Pittsburgh, third score on the first play of the second period. 


set off salvo after salvo of thunderous cheers fitting as a salute to the great football machine that Rockne has built this year. 
The triumph was -the fourth of the year for Rockne, and enabled him to hang the pelt of the Panther beside the 
' crushed brig of the Navy, Carnegie's tattered plaid and the hamstrung Mus­tangs of Southern Methodist. 
. Notre Dame left little to be desired as it muscled its way through Pitt for five touchdowns in the first half. The Carideo -Schwartz -Brill -Mullins -Savoldi combination was too perfect for Pitt. Usu~lly formidable in the line, the Panthers were waefully weak 
LINEUPS 

Notre Dame Pittsburg!J 
Kosky-------L. E. ___McMurdo Culver_______L. T._____Quats2 Kassis_______ L. G. ___Milligan Yarr_________c..__ Daugherty Metzger_____ R. G. ______Lewis Kurth_______ R. T.______Tully Conley______ R. E. __:_ ___Collins Carideo______ Q. B. _____ Baker Schwartz _____L. H._.____HeliC"r Brill _____.,__R. H.____Williams Mullins ______F. B._______Hood 
· 
. The Jumper took added space in the limelight shortly later when he inter-· cepted Baker's pass on Pitt's 42 and sprinted around the Panther left flank for his second and the Irish fourth touchdown. The Notre Dame shock troops were unblanketed then and came dashing out on the field full of pep and ambition. They took the ball on their own 18-yard line and Bucky ·o'Connor made two _end runs of 3 2 and 4 5 yards to penetrate to the Panther five-yard line. Mike Koken then went cruising around left end with the fleetness of a deer to score. 
Clark, Hood's substitute at full, made two of Pitt's three touchdowns in the 

yesterday, and until Rockne replaced his first-stringers with second half. Reider made the other after Howard had -shock troops, the Irish did about as they pleased. fumbled for Notre Dame on his five-yard line. 
The game wasn't out of the teething stage before the Irish In a way it was a funny ball game because every one, had a score. Pitt took the first kick-off and the Irish gained except possibly the Pitt coaches and players, went home posses~ion on the 40-yard line after Baker punted. happy. Notre Dame's. joy was the joy of victory, and 
A slash at Pitt's left tackle, just a wee bit on the outside, Pitt's the joy that comes with the knowledge that the and Sdnvartz was clear. He twisted and sidestepped to boys didn't quit. 

Official Football Review-1930 


Notre Dame 27 Indiana 0 
Indiana and Notre Dame started to play football together in 1899, and they have played off and on ever since.' Up until the season just closed, they had met 15 times, and Notre Dame had won 11 times, lost thrice, and tied once. Notre Dame had won the seven games played since Rockne started coaching in 1919. These scores were not exactly pleasant reminders for the Hoosiers when Coach Pat Page brought them to the ne"{. Notre Dame stadium for their game, but they did have some~hing behind them to spur them on: the 1929 team had held the national . champions to 14 points in the first game of the season and never had Notre Dame won without a real fight. 
They entered the game with no losing complex. They had come to Notre Dame to fight their hearts out and to do every­thing they knew how to do for victory. Their stubborn re­
H. 0. "PAT" PAGE CHARLES BRUBAKER 
Indiana Coach sistance in the first half brought about a scoreless tie; even the Indiana Captain "Our Indiarza stale rh•alry Irish varsity when rushed into i:he game had failed to penetrate "We e~~joyd very much play­
illg agaimt the Notre Dame 111et1 . ill Notre Dame's new s/adiz1111 itt a stone-wall defense. In fact, the red-jersied men from Bloom­i11 our a11n111Jl game. We admired a clean cut manner. II proved the hard play of our oppollet~ts game this )'tar was fought out 
ington had fought their way at one time to Notre Dame~s 13­
interesting not only to the play­a11d I believe we gave them all ers but ·to our slate urziversity yard line where too much zeal led them to speed up their plays t~·e had. To 11/t il was a most 
al11mni. Rock's Notre Dame memorable fight all the way a11d system Proved suPerior i11 the 
and lose some of the effectiveness that had carried them in their our 111e11 wish Notre Dame coll· ucorzd period by some sprclacular limud success i11 upholdirzg ils
mad dash down the field.

individual brilliarzce." 11atiorzal horzors this ')'ear."
Again, though, Notre Dame was not to be denied. · In a 


characteristic second-half rush, Rockne's Irish fought One of Brill's touchdowns came on a neat open field their way through the best that Indiana could offer and run of 23 yards and the other followed Schwartz's 79­Marty Brill, warming up for the game the following week yard dash which left the ball only nine yards out: Schwartz with Penn, sprinted and dodged his way to two touch­had picked up the ball on the dead run as it bounced from downs. These were the first he had made in Notre Dame Larry Mullins' eager fingers after an Indiana kick-off and uniform because in 1929 and the early' part of 1930, he had sped nearly to the goal when he was pulled down from 
had been used almost exclusively as a blocker. So elated 

behind. 
were Joe Savoldi and Larry Mullins at Marty's success that The fact that Notre Dame made 14 first downs to In-they followed him with another brace of touchdowns that diana's five, and 432 yards from scrimmage to Indiana's

demoralized the Hoosier defense, still scrapping, and put the game in the record books as another Notre Dame 76, tells the story of the game more eloquently. than we 
victory. can hope to. 

Savoldi {54) speeds between Carideo and Brubaker to score on a 35-yard run. 
-·.~~ 7 4 r~-·­

1930 Horsemen Trcim.ple Stubborn Hoosiers 

. Heroes of the Day . \'\Then Marty Brill came to Notre Dame 
to make good, he had a prep school repu­tation as a ball-lugger, but Rockne gave him little chance to display~ this .talent dur­ing the 1929 season. Last season, though, he was given more and more frequent· op­portunities to carry the ball. . 
Against Indiana, he made two touch­downs, his first in Irish uniform, besides playing his usual rugged defensive. and blocking game. Sharing the glory of his second scoring episode was Marchy Schwartz who, on the dead run, picked off the ball on a kick-off and ran 79 yards until one of the Hoosier secondary men, having some 20 o: 3 0 yards fewer to run, dragged him down ~n the two-yard line. . There was a loss and a five-yard penalty to put the ball on the nine-yard stripe from which Marty plunged across. 
By ]ACK ELDER MARCHY SCHWARTZ Chicago Herald-Examiuer Sports 'Vriter MARTY BRILL 


Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. I.-A doughty little band of warriors, the best that Pat Page was able to muster, invaded the home of the Fighting Irish here today and for the first ,30 minutes repulsed everything the Notre Dame boys flung at them. But the odds were· too great, and in the second half of the contest, the ..Rockmen" unleashed an attack that would not be stopped, and game finally ended 
with the Irish having piled up 27 points to Indiana's 0. 
A fighting line, evidently out to do or die, surprised the I 5,000, spectators and perhaps surprised themselves, by holding the second Irish eleven scoreless for 20 mi_nutes and 
the first team without points for the re­maining 10 minutes of its stay in the second quarter. 
Savoldi Goes Over ·, 

A lot of words must have been said during the intermission, for Notre Dame came out with a. bang and before the period was half over Savoldi had literally driven through the Hoosiers for 3 3 yards and a touchdown. · 
And before many more minutes had passed, Schwartz had sprinted around right end for another marker. 
Somewhat battered and depressed over this scoring the Ho_osiers evidently figured .. \'\That's the use?"' with th'e re­sult that Marty Brill_ hung up two 
LINEUPS 

Notre Dame l11diau.1 
Kosky_______L. E. __ Richardson Culver______L, T,_____ Kuchins Kassis_______L, G,_______Rehm Yarr__________c,___Mankowski ·Metzger_____R. G, ______Zellcr Kurth_______ R. T.______Jasper Conley_______ R. E,_____ Dickey 
Carideo ------Q· B, ___Brubaker Schwartz____L, H,________ Ross Brill_________R. H.______Opasik Mullins______F. B·----~ Saluslti 
· ­

markers to complete the scoring of the game. Incidentally, 
these scores by Brill were the first he has made since he 
became a member of the Notre Dame team. But when he . decided to do a little scoring, he surely did it up right, for 
he drove and drove with all the power his sturdy legs could 
muster until he had crossed the line ~or his first touchdown. 
Brill Scores Twice In ~aking the second he had to share the glory with Marchy Schwartz, who on the first play after the kickoff 
ran the ball from his own 20-yard marker through the entire Indiana. team to Indiana's two-yard line. 
It was a magnificent run and had he been faster he would have gone over the line before Ross pulled him down from behind with a flying tackle It didn't matter, for Brill carried it over two pla.ys later. 
The first quarter was a rather dull affair ·with both teams blocking and tackling well. 
During the second quarter the game opened up some­what, with Koken getting away for 19 yards around his right end, carrying the ball t~ India:ta's 20-yard strip. 
Notre Dame, however, was held for downs and the blll was kicked out of danger. 
Play see-sawed back and forth for a few minutes until the first eleven came in and began to batter away. ·The Hoosier line began to give, but strength­ened to hold the first stringers in mid­field as the second period ended. 
Brill's Scoring Debut . 
This was the end of the great Indiana stand. Not long after the fireworks began to go off in the form of runs by Savoldi, Schwartz, .Brill and Carideo. These four battering rams, with the fine assistance of the Irish forwards, kept hammering away at the Crimson line 

until it broke long enough to let Big Joe through for his 33-yard drive and the first marker. Not long· after Schwartz cut loose with his goalward ­jaunt, netting him 26 yards and· another touchdown. 
Brill skirted the left flank to score his initial marker for Notre Dame. He followed this score with another a few moments later after Schwartz had run 78 yards to the 2­yard stripe by circling wide his left flank and driving over the final line in the embrace of two tacklers. 

Official Football Review~I930 


Notre Dame 60 Pennsylvania 20 
At Philadelphia, before some 80,000 wide-eyed spectators, Notre Dame reached the peak of its effectiveness as an offensive machine. Slowly but surely Rockne had been building up his 
-team, working carefully, sometimes applying the lash of his . tongue, sometimes explaining things calmly to his players, always striving for perfection. A climax was bound to come-it came with an astounding force against Pennsylvania. There was no particular reason why it should have come in this game except, possibly, th;tt two of Notre Dame's warriors were fighting as they had never fought before and· as they never did later. ­
Both Marty Brill and· Capt. Tom Conley, playing in their home town before friends, former school-mates, and their respective families outdid themselves in an effort to show what makes Notre Dame the outstanding team of the country. Their 
. . f h ff . d d · DICK GENTLE
LUDLOW WRAY team-mates caught the sptnt o t e a air an ·cooperate tn Pezmsylvcw!a captaill
Pennsylvania Coach 

chalking up the worst defeat the Quakers had suffered in years. hat•e 11othi11g but praise for
Nolr~ Dame, 1vhm it played 

· ll · d h d • · f B "ll the Notre Dame team. Capt.
Prtm, was th~ smoothest-worki11g Especia y tntereste WaS t e trow In every aCtiOn 0 n ' Corzley a11J his team-mates p:ayel
rombi11atio11 I hat•e et•er sec,, 

pia)' 011 a griJirou. lis b/ocki11g, who had attended Penn for. a year, left school because he was a hard, clwz game, thr ki11d
that wim football games. Tl•rillltrferilzg, ball-carr yiug a11d 

told t at he was not good enough f or the team, and come to hard rurzrziug a11J splendid ill/a­
grneral all arourzd play was h 

machi11e-like i11 its precisiou a11d Notre Dame to make good. It seemed that the linemen blocked Jering of the backs ma~t-u im­
pouibl~ for us to stop them. My
det•as/atillg ;, its executio11. The 

game itself u·as cleauly fought doubly hard when his number was. called. and everyone co-o11ly regret is tha't I will. hr from start fi11ish. • 1 • · d f h" 1mable agai11 lo mer/ · Nolrrto operated In rna ung It a. great ay Or Im. Dame at South Br11d 11r.~t fall. 
Less glorious perhaps, but none the less appreciated, was had seen a great team at its greatest. Notre· Da~e had 
Capt. Conley's performance at right end. He was no't giv.en reached its pinnacle and never again did it attain the same 
a chance to equal Brill's three touchdowns because not a glorious heights. .; . 
pass was used by Notre Dame, but his mates and his Penn, somc,\rhat crippled by it~· hard fight the week 
coaches agreed after the game that he had played the finest before to win over a previously undefeated Kansas eleven, 
defensive and blocking game of his career. pla.yed the Qest; it knew how. The' Quakers fought to the 
last ditch ancl. never.g~-ye ,up hope,. even as its valiant men Eastern critics, who swarmed to the game because it was were carriec;l off ~he ~<;.ld of battle exhausted. No team, their only chance to see Knute Rockne's 193 0 Fighting even in the. best of·condidop, t,hough, could have halted 
Irish that close to the seaboard, were long and loud in the precise, determined :narch of Rockne's men that day. their praise of the team and its devastatng attack. They They were supreme, uniJeatable. 



Perina ( 18) finds hole in Irish line in first period and makes five yards. -·~t 76 ~~­
~~------------------------------------------------------~~~----------~~------------------------------------­
U1zivenity of Not1·e Da1ize 
Apex of Season Reached Against Penn. 

Heroes of the Day 
\'\Then a captain of a great team can re­turn to his home town and inspire his men to play the best ball they ever played, it goes. without saying that he is a hero. Tom Conley played probably the best ball of his career against Penn at Philadelphia. 
More glory, none the less deserved, how­ever went tu Marty Brill, who was battling the team on which he was told he .. did not fit." He also was playing in his· home town. His two touchdown runs in the first half started scoring sprees, and hi" touchdown dash in the second half. provided the spark that started raging another point-gatl~ering fire. · · 
By GRANTLAND RICE {New Yorl?. Sun SjJOrts \Vriter) 

(Copyright, 1930, byCAPT. TOM CONLEY 

Philadelphia, Pa., Nov. 8.-You may have heard of the Four Horsemen of Notre Dame. A few years ago, with a sweep and rhythm and a flash of speed before unknown to football, they ran amuck. To-day at Franklin field against a Pennsylvania team strong enough to beat Kansas by 21 to 6, Knute Rockne and Notre Dame passed on far beyond the Four Horsemen. \X'ith Carideo, Brill, Savoldi and Schwartz they put on a combination of four antelopes, · four charging buffaloes, four digdigs and four eels. They 
smashed Pennsylvania, 60 to 20, but that is only part of the story. 
Notre Dame's first team actually beat. Pennsylvania 4 3 to 0 in less than 30 minutes of play. Pennsylvania. then beat Notre Dame's second, third and fourth team players, 20 to 7. This Notre Dame first team. gave one of the most remarkable exhibitions of speed, power and team play ever seen on any fo::>tball field against a strong, fast Penn team. They scored almost two points a minute. 
They ran rough shod over the Red and Blue 'in an attack led by Ma-rtin Brill, the discarded Penn star, who was the. first western bJck to C}~olcde the big bomb. It was one of the .greatest exhi­
bitions of sheer speed, power and coordination ever se:!n on any field in the history of the game. Penn Completely Helpless 
It was an attack that would have crushed any team playing football today and Pennsylvania -WlS completely . helpless before those first string backs who stru_ck with such speed and fury, supported 'by marvelous interference and a fast, hard-charging line. It was an astonishing accomplishment, witnessed by something like 80,000 spec­tators who .;saw· a first-class Red and Blue team crushed completely:.. 
the New York Sun) MARTY BRILL 
For the first five minutes the battle was a sec-saw affair. 
Pennsylvan~a was holding its own. Tl1e big crowd, watch­
ing the game on a cool, flawless footb.tll day, began to get 
excited. Penn's line was holding up. Penn's fast back­
field was giving the western avalanche an even fight. The 
ball had been 'swept back into Notre Dame terriwry. 
somewhere around Notre Dame's own 35-yard line) and 
then the big blast went off. ­
Three years ago Pennsylvania had judged that Martin 


Not1·c Dame Pcmz 
Host ·-·· -·---L. E. .·----Raffel Culver-----'--L. T, _______ Bloch 
Kassis --------L. G. -----Willson 
Yarr---------C. -·-----Engh 
Metzger_____ R. G. _Newcomb Kurth~---·--· R. T. ______Olsen . Conley ·-·----R~ E. _ Riblett Caridco _____ Q. B. . Graupner 
Schwartz-----L. H. ____ Gentle 
Brill --------R. H. _____ Greene 
Mullins---·---F. B. _______Gett:-t 
Brill was· not quite strong enough for its first team. Brill left and. went to ­Notre Dame. For two years he has been· pointing for this game, .for this 
chance at revenge. His father, sur­rounded by a crowd of friends, was watching every play with keen interest. Then TILill's signal was called. The line gave him an opening as broad as a four­way drive. Brill shot through. One Penn tackler dived at him and Brill side­stepped. · Another came charging in and the fast, elusive . 190-pound back knock:;d him down with a straight arm. H:! rah over another and then with fine interference he was on his way for a 
touchdown. 
The Old Man Gets a Mauling 

He ran 65 yards and the Notre Dame contingent stood up with a roar, all_ knowing Brill's past history at Penn­sylvania. They crowded around, hammered and mauled old man Brill on the back until he must have been almost sorry his son had run so far. It was· the finest run a football field has ever seen, and it shattered the Red and Blue. From that point on, with Frank Caridco directing the attack, Brill, Savoldi and Schwartz ran wild. They carried the ball as far as they wanted to run. They crashed through for 15 yards and they galloped for 40. 
(Continued on p3ge 99 )' 

Official Football Review-1930 


Notre Dame 28 Drake-0 
In spite of the fact that his men had lost three games before meeting Notre Dame, Coach Ossie Solem himself said before the Notre Dame game that he had the best team in his time as the Bulldog coach. His veteran backfield, headed by Capt. Lynn King, and his fast-charging forwards had won his confidence and he knew that the three. previous set-backs were excusable .. One of them was to the strong Oregon Aggies, another to Marquette on two intercepted passes in the closing minutes of pla.y, and the third was a one-point loss to Missouri. 
Rockne knew Drake, in spite of the fact that no one took it seriously, would furnish as good a team as any on the schedule and he warned his men repeatedly against the shifty Bulldog offense and did everything in a coache's power to keep his men 
OSSIE SOLEM keyed for this game. There was a. natural let-down, however, LYNN KING 
Drake Coach . Drake Captain
. which nearly prove1 fatal. 

Th~ Notr~ Dam~ T~am o/ 19JO I am very proud to have bem is th~ gr~at~st w~ hav~ ~ver m~t. \Vith all the confidence and ability to handle themselves that able to play agaimt Notre Dame Their r~markabl~ ability is ~x­bua11se they have a great lean: 
aetl~J only by tb~ r11gg~d ma11-any .. big time" team boasts, the Blue and White clad boys play ·hard, clean football.
a11d liness a11d gmui11e sportsmamhip The thi11g that imPressed me ·
stepped into the new Notre Dame stadium and set their smooth
which marks their play. most was th~ wo11tler/ul !Jos­
working offense in· operation. The shock troops played them pitality we received at Notre Dame.
even and Dan Hanley, new full-back discovery, scored against them. Then, the varsity came in to pile up a victory margin. 
The appearance of the regulars, however, only spurred Few on the Notre Dame campus and still fewer' outside Drake to greater heights and King and Lansrud swept down will ever appreciate the Drake team of 1930. The game the field to realize their great ambition before the game, to was considered a breather for Notre Dame and only a score against Rockne's first team. \Vhen Seiberling added handful of spectators turned out. Those who stayed away the extra point, the teams were deadlocked and it took all 
missed the very thing for which football is famous, the the power and all the resourcefullness of a great Notre 
fight of an underdog team that was cool, steady, and Dame team to run up three more touchdowns. · 
compete~t against a team which boasted, in addition to Drake played a smart, heads-up game and its line 
was these qualities, power and an unbeatable attitude. perhaps the best-coached Notre Dame met all season. 
Drake and Notre Dame have met five times and Drake
\Valdo Don Carlos :was acclaimed by the Irish center trio has never· won, but always . the Bulldogs have displayed a

as the best pivot· man they encountered, and the smooth Drake offense showed the genius of Solem who every year great fighting spirit and ·the games between these two -turns out ·a well-coached band from his meagre material. teams have always been interesting to watch. 



.Dan Hanley (31) making 16 yards in his successful Notre· Dame debut. ~~1 78 }!lt-·­

U 1ziversity of Notre Dame 
Hanley•s Debut Defeats Rugged Bulldogs 
Heroes of the Day 
Almost invariably the Dra_ke game un­covers a new star, a new hero for Notre Dame followers to idolize. The 19 3 0 game. · was no exception,_ for Rockne, finding that he would need another full-back to carry his men through the rest of the sea~ son, promoted Dan Hanley from the re­serves to the second string and he immedi­ately broke into the scoring column with a 32-yard sprint which followed a 20-yard run that was called back. In the last period, he again broke loose for a run of 8 0 yards. 
Playing against the best center he met all season, \Valdo Don Carlos, Tommy Yarr again stamped himself a great pivot man with his spectacular tackles ·all over the 
, field~ his steady offensive play and passing, and 'his interception or breaking up of several Bulldog passes. 
By FRANK BRODY TOMMY YARR (Des Moines Register Sports 1'(1riter) DAN HANLEY 
South Bend, Ind.,· Nov. 15.-A bunch of Notre' Dame scored. Sieberling then was rushed into the tiit and tied up backfield stars who seemed at times legless when Drake the count with a fine place-kick. . ,went to tackle them piled up four touchdowns here Satur-And thus ended the Drake scare. On the kick-off fol­day, but the Bulldogs showed· 20,000 persons a thing or lowing the touchdown, Schwartz showed why he is so two before succumbing, 28 to 7. highly touted, and the Notre Dame blockers showed why 
The Irish displayed a truly great team but the wearers they were rated among the country's best. The fleet half­of the \Vhit'e and Blue flashed an offense that caused the back raced to the Drake 13-yard point before being forced Notre Dame supporters to rise up and shriek, "Hold 'em, ·out of bounds. Smashes carried the ball to the Drake Notre Dame," repeatedly. . 3-yard line and ·then Carideo faked a pass and handed the 
Notre Dal!le's shock troops were far from equal to the ball to Brill, who raced for a touchdown. Carideo's frenzied charges of Lloyd Lansrud, Charles Van. Koten unerring toe made the extra point. and Capt. Lynn King, and it took the Lansrud Does Heavy Work Ramblers'. best to turn back the Drake Hanley, a back who never played for fighters. LINEUPS Notre Dame before, had given the lo-
The shock troops carried the battle cals their first touchdown. After to a scoreless draw in the first quarter. Notre Dame Drake smashes had carried the pigskin to the Early in the second period the Notre Kosky________L. E·---~--Brilcy ·Drake 34-yard mark, this loose-hipped Dame first string line and ,the great Culvcr_______L. T._______Black back went 34 yards around right tackle Carideo entered the tilt and' the Irish Kassis_______L. G, _____~Risser for the touchdown. pushed over its counter. Yarr_...:_______c. ___Don Carlo:; Then the Bulldogs had their say. 
. Mctzgcr_____R. G. _____Sullivan 
Lansrud entered the game for the Kurth_______R, T._____ Kokjohn Passes paved the way for the third Bulldogs and he turned in an exhibi-Conlcy______ R. E, _______Clcss quarter touchdown of Notre Dame. tion of fine plunging that caused Carideo______ Q. B,_______King Heaves, Schwartz to Kosky and the Notre Dame rooters to give him Schwartz____L. H._..Van Kotcn Schwartz to Carideo, put the ball on a tremendous ovation when he left the ·Brill________R. H,_____lvcrson the Drake 13-yard line. The Irish cov­field. Taking the ball on its 20-yard Mullins_______F. B,_____ Brcwcr ered fifty yards with their overhead at-
line, the Des Moines aggregation rcele3 1.::: tack, interspersed with a few smashes. off yard after yard. From the 13-yard stripe, Brill and Mul-King Easily Scores lins took the ball across, the _latter entering the scoring \Vhen the Iowans had the ball on the Notre Dame column. The Irish started back down again after Drake 
.. 6-yard line, the Irish sent the rest of the first team ir:t, ·had punted late in the third period but the Des Moines Brill, Mullins and Schwartz entering the contest. That crew showed that all its power was not offensive and stop-failed to stop the doughty Bulldogs. Field General K.ing ped. the Ramblers 12 yards short of a touchdown. delved deep into his sack of tricks and uncorked a tnple All the Drake defensive qualities went in vain, how­pass. Lansrud started as if to hit the· line again. As he ever, for afte·r King had booted the Bulldogs out of danger, passed Brewer h~ handed· him the ball and the latter then Schwartz stepped around tackle, cut back down the center hurled ~ pass to King, who was out in the open, and easily of the field for 43 yards and a touchdown. 
-·~t 791~·­



Official Football Review-1930 

Notre Dame ·-14 Northwestern 0 


"\'\'hen the going gets tough, that's when we like it!" Many arc the times Knutc Rockne has thundered this exclamation at his Notre Dame warriors when experts were picking them to lose to an unusually strong opponent, or at the half of a game when the tide of victory was ebbing. Shaking his head vehemently and biting off every word so that it resounded and vibrated through the otherwise perfect quiet of a locker-room or class room at his noon lecture, "Rock" has stirred his men .with this phrase so that they have gone out time and again to do the impossible. 
His 1930 team proved that the statement may be applied to them as well as to gallant heroes of the past when, after a score­
.·~ .·

less first half which saw them bunted down deep into their own territory time and again by charging Wildcats, they returned No~:f,~:!:fc~~~~cb to the fray, tired and battered, with defea.t staring them in the ;~!:!t~!;:~nR~~P~~in Our gamc with Notrc Dilllll' face, and played Northwestern's strongest team in history off its Notre Dame this year bad. Ibis )'l'ar was characteristic of feet tO \Vill a gloriOUS ViCtOry. . OtiC of the greatest /tams ill its 
other bard fought battles bclwem football history. The players the two schools ;" tht' past. Notre Dame received the first kick-off and started down the tvere bard fighters a11d tbey Thr game last fall was tbc · I d }} l d I had a' heady quarterback. : i11 
hardnt /ought COllin/ I I'VI'r field. Thirty-five ya-rds in pena ties an we -p ace Nort 1-Frallk. Carideo. The secret ill Wiiiii'Ued a lid I want to COli-· .. western punts halted their rush and the Purple had the. ball Notre Dame's .. first touchdorvll 
gratu!atc tbc Notre Damc tcam 1'i·as · tbc tvO-IIdcrful blocki11g o11 its mag11ifimll ·fi11al quartcr perilously close to the Notre Dame 'goal by the middle of the . wbirh took our mm out. Notrc sPurt that brokc the e:dsti11g fi T . h h d h b 11 · h' h Damc dcsrrvcs rrt'dit /or rap-
lie aiiJ ga~·e them thc t'irtory. rst quarter. WICe Nort western a t e a Wit Ill t e itali=illg 011 the breaks. 
five-yard line and the heavy, fast, crushing Wildcat backs, Then, suddenly, came the perfect play! The tearri had Bruder and Russell, tore into the line only to be staved off finally clicked! Schwartz drove around his right end be-by a desperate line. Twice fighting linemen made North-hind per~ect sweeping interference, Johnnie O'Brien cut western fumble and twice Carideo punted out of danger. over from left end and bowled over Capt. Hank Bruder, 
The second half ·was different. Rockne had talked safety man, and Marchy marched 18 yards to victory. · quietly, confidently to his men; he had told them that they \Vithout any attempt to belittle Northwestern's fine so far were having an off day, t~pt some element of class team, it may be told now that Rockne said to his players was lacking, and that they ·should try to work more in his lcc~ure following the Northwestern game that they as a team than as individuals. Never in the second half had had an· off day and that he wanted them to forget did Northwestern get past die Notre D~mc 40-yard line, about it. The statement was not for_ publication; ·it was but, until there were but a few scant minutes before the sincere ... and a team that can win a \Vestcrn champion-game would end, the Irish had not scgred either. ship on,. an off day is really a football. team! ­



Russell, Northwestern's. greatest threat, smashes his way to a five-yard gain. . -·~~ 8o:r~(o·­
& _____

==rrs 
U1tivenity of Not1·e Dame 
?? 
Irish Win Western Title from WildcatS 

Heroes of the Day 
There is room here only· to enumerate some facts that made Frank Carideo and Bert :Metzger heroes of the Northwestern game. Carideo shut off a \'V'ildcat threat in the second quarter when he recovered Bruder's fumble after Metzger had tackled the Purple captain so hard that he dropped the ball. 
·carideo staved off defeat in the ·first ha"f with his long punts, and in the second half he kicked out of bounds five times inside yard stripe. Carideo's 13-yard pass put the ball on the one-yard line from which Hanley dove over for Notre Dame's sec­ond score. 
Although the \X'ildcats time and again sent Russell through \X'oodworth's _ guard at Metzger, this !53-pound package of dynamite, playing with an injured side, stopped everything sent his way. 
B)' FRANCIS \X'ALLACE .BERT METZGER ( N cw Yor!{ Daily News SjJorts-\Vriter) 
FRANK CARIDEO 

Evanston, Ill., Nov. 22.-\'V'hen Champions meet, the _perfect blocking of Capt. Conley, Metzger, and Cariden 
.victory goes to the last ounce of power. \'\Then the cur­which had brought Marchy through the line. . 
tain dropped here today, Notre Dame, national titleholder Frank Carideo, who had directed the Irish attack ex­
co£ 1929 and victor in 17 consecutive battles, was still pertly and kept the \'V'ildcats deep in their own territory the champion -and Northwestern, which had come with remarkably accurate punting, place-kicked the extra through a hard Big Ten season without being defeated or point. tied, had bowed to a superior squad. The final score was Northwestern had I 0. minutes in which to earn a tie 14 to 0 and 50,000 people saw the Irish score all of their and the desperate \'V'ildcats clawed savagely, opening with 
points in the last 10 minutes of play. the same passing attack that had laid low their conference Notre ·Dame, with characteristic dash, began to gain at opponents; but the telling blow had been struck and the will as the game started; but the \'V'ildcats, with a sav­Irish protected their advantage with deadly skill. agery worthy of their nickname, rallied Carideo Proves Class 


and completely dominated the second period, twice penetrating the Irish five­yard line, and keeping their opponents bottled iip with Bruder's excellent kick-. ing. Their running game checked, Notre ·Dame took to the air and re­
. gained command during-the third period. · 
But after five minutes-of the last period had been played, and it seemed that the \Vildcat defense would earn a tie, Marchy Schwartz, who had been leading the pass attack with accurate throws, broke off his right tackle on a delayed half-spinner, floated through_ a wide hole opened by his linemen, 
LINEUPS 

Notre Dame Northwester11 
. Kosky_____...:L. E._______Baker Culver______:L. T.__ En~ebritsen Kassis_______L. G.__Woodworth Yarr___: ______c . ..:_______Clark Metzger--·--R. G. _:_ _____Evans Kurth______ R. T._______Maryil 
Conley______ R. E. ________ Fencl Carideo _____ Q. B. _______ Leach Schwartz_ ....:_L. H.______Bruder · 
BrilL______ R. H .. __L. Hanley Mullins_____F. B.______Russell 
The frantic cats clawed viciously and threw back the Irish running attack for a loss. But the Irish moved relentlessly on to a complete kill. Conley, hampered 
· by a tricky wind, muffed· a pass which would have earned another touchdown. Then Carideo proved his all-American class. He punted out of bounds on the Purple one-yard line and -made a fighting r~turn of Bruder's punt-out. Northwestern stopped the running at­tack and took the ball on its 20 yard line when Carideo's kick went over the goal. Desperately, the dying \'V'ildcats tried a spectacular play which has earned 

an~ was loose along the sideline with only Lee Hanley, Purple safety man, in his path. Interference Effective 
Johnny O'Brien, the same chap who took Neimic's pass to beat Army in-1928, was ahead of Schwartz, spilled Hanley with· a perfect block, and Marchy dove over :he goal in the· extreme corner of the field for the score wh1ch broke the tie and set the impatient Irish rooters to riotin~. They Lauded Schwartz and O'Brien-few knew of the them a touchdown against every other team it was tried on this year. It ·started as a forward' pass over the line from Bruder to Hanley and developed into a lateral aimed 
·at Moore-but Tom Kassis, unsung but efficient Notre Dame left guard, intercepted the lateral on the Purple 27-yard line. 
Dan Hanley Scores O'Connor, who had been substituted for valiant Jvfarty Brill, drove for 11 yards in a :fighting smash through cen-' 
(Continued on p2gc 97) 
-·~f81 }~··­
Official Football Review-193 9 


Notre Dame 7 Army 6 
\X'hen Charles (Gus) Dorais, quarter-back, threw passes to K.nute Rockne, end, in 1913 on the Army Plains at West Point in 1913 and surprised the Cadets with a 3 5 to 13 victory, there started a rivalry which has become the most colorful that football knows today. Playing every year with the exception of 1918, when. the \o/orld \o/ar intervened, Army and Notre Dame have won the a-ttention of the football world with their hard-fought games, many of which have gone into history as real classics. Punctuating tl1e long rivalry is the fact th:it th~ under dog as often as not has won. ... 
The game always had been played in New York or at \'{fest Point, and when it was moved to Chicago this year, 110,000 persons braved snow, sleet, mud, and rain to see, in a dogged, determined fight at Soldier Field, perhaps the two best teams 
CHARLES HUMBERMAJ. RALPH SASSE 

the two schools have ever turned out. ~rmy Captain
Army Coach After every Army-Notre Dame Notre Dame had won all of its games but Army, although The Army football squad smJs 
its heartiest. congratulations to

game, win, lose or JraiL', the. tied once, was confident. Maj. Ralph Sasse, their new coach, Captait~ Conley and his team.
fine relations built 11P Juring the past 17 years are strength­·had won the respect of the Cadets and this confide·nce was re­Aside /rom the weather we all ened. We hope that the game 
rnjoye4. the game more than any will continue to br the football 
flected in their defiant attitude as they took their places in th~ other of the mt~re season. 
rlassic of the uason. half-frozen slime of an impossible field. \o/ith both attacks slowed by most unfa.vorable footing, there started a punting duel which saw Fields and Frentzel staving off Notre Dame 
scoring threats time and again. Army, it was apparent, ley drove in the tackle, and Carideo, Metzger, and Brill .was content to play for a tic and its strong powerful lin~ swarmed through the hole to mow down the secondary and accurate punts kept every Irish scoring threat in the and to lca.ve the path clear for Marchy. Caridco added his category of threats. twenty-fifth extra point of the year out of 30 attempts. 
Each discouraging set-back, however, only spurred Field Army's blocking and recovering of Carideo's punt for General Carideo on as he kept plugging away with a touchdown a moment later proved only a gesture when Schwartz and Mullins off tackle. Finally, the perfect play Broshus' drop-kick for the extra point was blocked. A 
came, the one Carideo had been trying all afternoon, with great Army eleven ha~ bowed to an unbeatable Notre 
Schwartz driving of his right tackle to run 54 yards on a Dame band of real fighters who never failed to start out bee-line for the goal w:ith every Army man blocked out anew on a scoring drive against most discouraging odds; cleanly and securely. Mullins, who proved to be the best and another chapter had been added to the vivid history mudder of the day, got King, the Army end, Capt. Con-of a great rivalry. 



Schwartz shakes himself loose and runs 54 yards to victory. -·~f 8zr:Eo··­
t='?'FT 
U1zive1·sity of Not1·e Da11te 

•

Perfect Play Comes 1n Time for Victory 
. Heroes of the Day 
\'\That could bring greater satisfaction to any Notre Dame man than to be the hero of the great traditional game with Army? Larry Mullins came into his own against the Cadets when he proved to be the best mudder of the day. His off-tackle smashes kept the Iri~h ever threatening the Army goal arid his difficult assignment when Sch1Vartz was sent off tackle on the play that finally scored, was single-handed to block ou~ the Army left end. He did this 
•very time he was supposed to but injured his knee so badly again that he was unable to play against Southern California. 
Tom Kassis was also hampered by injuries throughout the season, but he never missed a game when "Rock" asked him to play~ and he never "missed an assignment when he did play. Against ,Army, he made his best showing of the year. 
By RoBERT F. KELLEY LARRY MULLINS (New Yorl?. Times SjJOrts ''(Triter) 
TOM KASSIS 

Chicago, Nov. 29.-By the margin of a single point, on the attack through nearly the c~~ire afternoon and ·Notre Dame turned back the threat of Army today and Army stood the South Bend team off three or four times 
headed for the Pacific Coast and Southern California still right on the rim of earlier scores. 
undefeated. 
T~c Notre Dame touchdown w~s a run off right tackle A crowd of 100,000 sat in a cold pouringrain at Soldier . by Schwartz. A 5-yard pcnahy against Army had brought
Field and watched as Army, fighting with its back to the the ball to Notre Dame's 16-yard line. Immediately, almost 
wall for nearly the entire game, stood off the relentless, 
before the Army realized that play was starting· again,persistent attack of Notre Dame until the contest had 
Schwartz went off his tackle. It was the perfect playjust a bit more than five minutes to go. In those last five 
toward which Notre Dame aims .through all of its games.minutes the crowd saw a scoreless tic become a 7 to 6 
Blocking and taking out were perfectly done, and the victory for Notre Dame. 


For one play, Marchmont Schwartz, Notre Dame's left half-back, found the stage completely arranged for him and l1c ran 54 yards to a touchdown over turf that was as slippery as an icc rink. Then Caridco place-kicked a per­fect goal and Notre Dame had' the seven points it was going to need. 
Soon after. the next kick-off, Fields sent a fine punt to Notre Dame's 19­yard line and then Dick King, Carl­' mark's substitute left-end, smashed through to block Carideo's punt and ·.. followed the bobbing · ball on over the goal line to fall on it. for a touchdown. 
Broshus Enters the Game 
LINEUPS 

Not1·c Dm11c Army 
Kosky________ L. E. ___ Carlmark Culver_______ L, T,_______Price Kassis_______ L. G, ____Humber · Yarr-----·---· C. ______Miller Metzger___:__ R, G. ______..:.Trice Kurth _______ R. T. ______ Saurez Conley-----· R. E. ___ Messenger Carideo ---·--Q. B.. ----Carver 
Schwartz_____ L. H:----· Stecker BrilL_______ R. H. ___Frentzel Mullins_,..._____ F. B.__~ ___Kilday 
ball-carrier, running full speed, came into the secondary without an enemy hand being laid on him. There was no chance for cutting or reversing the :Qcld in the mud. Schwartz had to rely on speed, and he had it. Nobody touched him. The nearest Army player was five yards away when the runner went ovc:­thc goal line. · 
That tackle run and a fake spinnc::­with Mullins. pounding through his short side had been gaining ground all afternoon for "Notre Dame. But an in­spired Army defense had stopped it short of a score until this one time. 
The play ·was all the more unusual because two. teams never played under 

\Vith the crowd pouring down  on  the field and ~stand­ worse conditions than those which confronted Army and  
ing along the side-lines; Army's drip-kicker, Broshus,  ran  Notre Dame. The threatened  snow did not come,  but in  
onto the field and peeled off his sweater ·to wipe off. the  its  place  was  a  steady,  drizzling  rain  that  half  froz:!  
ball.  Then he took his place and· the pass came from cen­ as it fell.  
tre,  but  Notre  Dame  used  the  same  weapon  that  had  It turned the field into a slimy mess that made it a .feat  
served  the Army.  A  cloud of blue-shirred players  came_·  for a man to stand up, much less run or change direction.  {:  
·through and smothered  the kick and Army  was  beaten.  And  it kept  the crowd down from  the record-breaking  !.  
It was a heart-breaking loss for the Cadets who had put  sizn that had been predicted.  
up such a stand, but in all justice the game· went to the  The conditions prevented  any  sort  of passing.  Passe<:  
team which played the better football.  Notre Dame was  were tried, but only two were completed.  There remained  
(Continued on paE;c 97) ·  


Official Football Review-193 0 

Notre Dame .-27 Southern California -· 0 
..The boys played the greatest ball game of the year." Th's brief statement, from the lips of Knute Rockne himself tells. better than we can hope to the story of the triumph of Notre Dame's band of warriors who stormed the gates of Troy to scor~ the most stunning upset of the season against Southern California's Trojans. 
It tells better than the frenzied flow of adjectives from the best radio announcers in the country and the reams of newsprint the next day from the nation's most fluent sports writers the story of how these Fighting Irish rose to heights which only the day before had seemed insurmountable,. a pinnacle recognized football experts and coaches said Notre Dame could never hope to attain. 
HOWARD JONES MARSHALL .DUFFIELD
And, with m~my saying that ·the 1930 team was the greatest
U .S.C. Coach U.S.C. Captain 
Coarh Rorkne prrsmteJ the in history, it means that Notre Dani.e played probably the best Notre Damr ·baJ the best /oC't­brst Notre Damr tt"am 1 IJat•r hilll team I have ever plaw./
game of football that has ever been played. They had come to
rt•rr sun agaimt 11s. The SIIPrri­11gainsl. Tbt blocking of every oril:y of Coach Rocktu's line tvas an unfavorable climate battered and weary from nine. man­matJ was s11Perb. All of So11ther:r' the biggest factor ;, o11r Jrfrat. Cali/omia gives Notre Dame full 
· \\'1e rongrat11late Notre Dame /or killing battles; they were without Joe Savoldi and Larry Mullins, crtJit for its great t•ictory also. playitzg football that was Prac­
their seasoned full-backs; U. S. C.'s. Trojans were considered th:!
tically per/eel. · 

strongest team in their history. But by some miracle, perhaps Rockne's own silent agreement with the general opinion that Notre Dame could not hope to 
win, his men went out to show the world what stuff and tackled \vith unprecedented fury; Carideo led the heroes are made of and to crush in the worst defeat attack cooly and strategically; Metzger, Yarr, Kassis,. 
U. S. C. has had in the five years Howard Jones has Culver, Kosky, O'Brien, and Kaplan at right half all did coached there a great U. S. C. eleven. yeoman's work. And Captain Tom Conley!· A leader if 
They swept an astonished Trojan· defense off its feet there ever was one, leading his team· on, fighting off the and they held their foes with their backs to the wall Trojans! almost the entire playing time. Perfect timing, precision, A perfect offense, a perfect defense combined in the clean exactness carried them headlong to victory. ; greatest football game ever played, one that brought the -There were many individual . heroes. Paul (Bucky) plaudits of a hostile crowd in a deafening roar to the O'Connor who had replaced his injured pal, Larry Mullins, players. All that th.e most inspiring of battle songs stands at full-back carried the brunt of ',the attack. Schwartz for was there exemplified-.. \Vhile here fighting sons go made his long, precise passes; Brill blocked like a demon marching onward to victory!" 




O'Connor, full-back, ts shown at the start of his SO-yard run for Notre Dame's second touchdown 
-·~~ s4 r~~·;_ 
U1tiversity of Not1·e Dame 
Defeat of Troy Brings Climax and Title 
Heroes of -the Da~y 
Paul (Bucky) O'Connor, because he made himself forget all that he had learned in three years of play at right half, and then went in to star at full-back and to carry on as his pal, Larry Mullins, would have done, was the sensation of Southern Cali­fornia game. Single-handed, he gained but a few yards less than the entire Trojan team.· 
. His touchdown run of 8o yards in ·the second quarter was one of the high lights of the game and he aided in making the victory the greatest any team has scored since Coach Howard Jones started at U.S.C. ·with his second scoring run of seven yards. 
Capt. Tom Conley paved the way for the first touchdown and started the avalanche when he caugh.t Schwartz's long pass and took the baH for a gain of 3 7 yards to the Trojan 29-yard stripe in the opening min­utes of play. His brillian~ play the rest of the game stamped him·as a great leader. 
TOM CONLEY By GEORGE SHAFFER PAUL (BUCKY) O'CONNOR 

(Chicago Tribune Press Service.)
. . ' 
Los Angeles, Cal., Dec. 6.-Notre Dame's brilliant ond touchdown of the game on an 80-yard run, and it was football warriors, who haven't taken defeat since 1928, he who carried over the third touchdown, this one on a this afternoon crossed up the football world by-crushing lateral pass from Schwartz, early in the third period. the University of Southern California's greatest eleven by O'Connor is a senior, and he ever has been faithful to his the amazing score of 27 to 0. second string role. The way he blossomed forth today· 
The Irish had come to the west with less prestige than the!-"efore, was something more than dramatic.. their 18 previous straight victories should have gairied O'Conrior·s average was almost 11 yards per-down, and them. Proud Californians knew that Notre Dame boasted he ·carried the ball ten· times without a failure. He was a three victories out of four games played with Southern whiz on defense as well~an inspired athlete every rna­California. All three of these were by one-point margins, ment of the time he ,was engaged in. singing his collegiate but you can't make a Southern Californian admit swan song. And what a swan song! defeat on_ a one-point margin. . Trojans are Outclassed 
Irish Were Underestimated Southern California didn't have a 
So we .say, coast ohservers and the LINEUPS Japanese landlord's chance. The great majority of the 90,000 spectators in the team crumpled on offense and it Los Angeles Coliseum_ this afternoon Notre Dame Southern Cal. crumpled on defense. . And ·the big, had scented a slaughter of the under-O'Brien---__ L. E. ·--·----Joslyn strong boys who had been made so estimated Ramblers by the team which Culver---· __L. T. -------Hall rough and ready by California's glori­in piling up terrific scores against tra-Kassis______ L. G.-----Baker ous sun not only were outclassed but
Yarr ________C.---· Williamson I d d 
ditional adversaries, had won the repu-Metzgcr_____ R. G. _______ Shaw t 1ey were i .outcon itione by the tation of being U. S. C.'s greatest Kurth ______ R. T. _______Smith athletes who had journeyed from afar scoring machine, a marvel at strategy . Conley______ R. E. ____ Arbclbide to acclimate themselves in less than and a juggernaut in all phases of foot-Carideo _:__ -· Q. B.-----Duffield two days of California climate. ball power. Schwartz--·-· L. H.--____Apsit If the score of 27 to 0 is not con-
To those who have followed Notre BrilL______ .. R. H.----Pinckert vincing enough, peruse the major statis­
. . d O'Connor_.,__F. B.__ ----:Musick · N D d · fi
D I f
arne exp oits or two years tt IS nee -t1cs. otre arne rna e Sixteen rst less to point out jus( now that Frank downs to Southern California's eight, · Carideo was brilliant at quarter-back . · and gained 43 3 yards to the Trojans' that Brill was a demon blocker, that Schwartz was a 140. The Los Angeles team entered the Notre Dame terri­squirmiJ?.g, dashing, and plunging streak. It is unnecessary tory only three times, once to the 33-yard line in the to point out that Metzger, Culver, Kurth, and the rest first quarter, once to the 34-yard line in the third quarter. of the regular line were superb. and Beatty ending with a desperate attack of interspersed 
But what you didn't expect, and the circumstance that' tackle slashes and passes which halted at the 21-yard line has left the coast in a football stupor, is the fact that . at the final gun. Bucky O'Connor,-secretly converted from a second string Taking the ball on a fumble by Full-back Musick of the half-back to a first string full-back just for today's game, Trojans, a pass, Schwartz to Carideo, put over the first was the brightest_· star of the contest. Bucky m~de the sec-touchdown from Southern California's 19-yard line in the 
(Continued on page 94) 
-·~f ss r.:'(o­



·I I 
i 
I 
\ 

.~ --~--~~----------··-·­
Official Football Revie1V-1930 





T
HE show is on! Stadium nearly :filled now· and equipment on the trips_:-they had to help themselves 
•.. the band striking up a stirring m.arch . . . . at the home practices and games. That was before the . acrobatic yell leaders ... a rousing cheer . . . game was as complicated and as magnified as it now is. the team comes on the :field, all equipped, all set for the There was liardly any need for student managers, the team battle. Any one of the great Saturday afternoon dramas had followers who helped with the business end of the of the autumn-mo're magnificent than any stage show-sports. In some cases a member of the university, either . and with just as much work to be done behind the scenes. officially or unofficially, took over the -duties as an as-Beneath the surface of all this football business is prep-sistance to the team. A member of the community, aration, hard work. The student managers do it-great Brother Paul, was the first football manager, serving frorri quantities of it. They are trained by years of experience 1887 to 1893. Later the coach served also as ma~ager, 
in the necessities of an athletic team; they carry out their . Jesse Harper carrying both positions from 1913 to 1917. 
assignments to the minutest detail. A team which finds The present manager's system has been in effect onl} 
everything plaimed for it, everything done for its benefit, during the last ten years. Starting with a few individuals 
has a mighty step toward succ~ss. who were inclined to aid the team out of pure school spirit 
· Notre Dame's athletic successes are a tribute to the a. ·well-defined organizat~on evolved. Today the student 
efficiency of the student managers org~nization. It is ~n managers are among the outstanding men of the campus. 
organization which has been years in the making and Each yea.r a call is issued to freshman early·in September 
which equals any similar, group in· its accomplishments. for tryouts in the managers system. The number answer­
The ·managerial system in effect at Notre Dame has al-ing this annual call is about 75 meJ;l who are anxious to 
lowed an evolution of ideas of a practical nature. Each be connected with the teams, to make trips, to win nu­
year finds new efficjent methods added to those of the past.. · merals and eventually a monogram. The· initial list of 
In the days when football was first becoming a popular· freshmen dwindles gradually; there are• those who drop 
consideration, student managers were unknown quanti-out and those who cannot survive _the periodic cuts. From 
ties at Notre Dame. The players carrie4 their own suits 12 to 15 managers receive freshman numerals each June. 
-~~~ 86 ~·~ 
U1zive1·sity of Notre Dame 
In turn the managers gain more responsibilities as they 
progress through the sophomore and junior' years.-Each 
class manager is directly in charge of that class under him, 
the senior manager of each sport having the supervision 
of-the details of his sport and the managers assigned to 
that sport. Senior managers are awarded monograms at 
the conclusion of their season. . 
1930 marks another new era in managing at Notre 

Dame. The completion of the new stadium brought new 
'problems to the organization. There were traffic prob­
lems both within and without the stadium, an ushers body 
to perfect, thousands of minor matters to be taken care of. 
Daniel D. Halpin was football manager during the past 
season. Under his guidance the stadium affairs and team 
care was done in an incomparable fashion. Joseph A. 
Lauerman was the associate manager in charge of the team 
at practice and in games. John F. Saunders handled the 
stadium arrangements and assisted in the details of the 
season's work. These three managers have brought a 
greater perfection to the group than it has ever. known. 
\Vith the opening of the new stadium and the subse­
quent swelling of crowds at home games, the training of 
an efficient body of some 1000 ushers was one of the 
greatest problems the managers had to meet. Most of the 
responsibility for the handling of the home game crowds · 
fell on the shoulders of Associate Manager Saunders, al­though Dan Halpin, as head manager, had the final word on everything that was done. Prospective ushers who had answered an invitation in the South Bend news­papers to serve in this capacity, in return for which work ~hey were admitted free to each game and automatically . made members of an Usher's club such as many of the eastern schools boast, were sifted down, their qualifi­
cations were considered by those in charge, and only the cream of the thousands who reported were used: 
Some idea of the great mass of work which fell upon the shoulders of the managers during the past season may be gained by a consideration of the various things they had to do during the week preceding the Army game. The game was in the nature of a home game for Notre Dame, but that fact didn't belie the necessity of moving the team and its equipment to Chicago. The usual reservations and accomodations for the visiting team had to be made. All. of this came in the· usual run of business for the week. In addition, though, the managers took care of all arrange­ments for the team of ex-Notre Dame stars who played another group of ex-Northwestern luminaries in a charity game at Soldier Field Than~sgiving Day. A reserve team played in Nashville that same day and the trip had to be handled by the same mangers. Finlly, two teams from the interhall league played out of town games that day. Hotels, meals, transportation, equipment, and a multitude of smaller details had to be p_rovided for for each of these games. 
Senior managers of other sports for the year have served during the football season as assistants to the football managers. Cross country in the fall.was::ably handled ~y Tom R. Ashe, manager of all minor sports. The basket­ball team will be under the management of John Hughes. Winter and spring track will be managed by C. Bourke Motsett, and baseball by Robert C. Balfe. . 
The junior managers, important cogs in the machine, are six in number: John Colville, John Grams, Joseph McKeon, John Ross, Charles Spangenburg, and Charle~ \Veiss. Together with the undergraduate managers, these men round out a most efficient body, one deserving ·praise. 

· k G ldb Von Doccklin, Venables, Kottc, Quinn, Albertini, Murphy, Rubin,
Back Row: David, Mulvihill, LaSaragc, McManus, MeCorm1c ·, o erg, Sullivan, Hanley. II F 11 · 'I · ,~:,. Sl · B k 
M"/1/ R L · O'B · M rr~y Greer Noll O'Keefe Bu 1 , Fox, a on, n artm, w 1rry, unncrs, a cr. 
11 t e ow: ew1s, nen, u " • • ' · ' · • B If G w · R · 
Froitt Row: McKeon,· Colville, Spangenberg, Ashe, Lauerman, Halpm, Motsett, a e, rams, e1ss, oss. Abswt whm picture was takm: Saunders and Hughes. 

..:...._:~.:......... 

_..:..,. -~------~-......__. ____...._ __.....__ --·-·-·· -····--·--...............·-----·------­
___,__ 
Officia/.Footb}tll Review-193 :J · 
'· 





The Band 

U
NDER the leadership of Prof. Joseph Casas­. anta, the University Band has finished another 
. successful season. The 82-piece organization played before the crowds at the five home games, besides making the Northwestern and Army trips to. Evanston arid Chic.ago with the football team. 
It is safe to say that no bancl in the country faced the keen competition that the Notre Dame musical unit did during the past season. The small but highly entertaining Southern Methodist band was on hand in the opening game, while the justly famous Kiltie band of Carnegie Tech was the next to engage in a musical duel with the Casasanta men. Indiana's celebrated .. Marching Hundred," one of the finest collegia.te bands in the coun­try, and Northwestern's colorful and capable musicians, were the other bands to share the football field with th~ Notre Da1:11e organization. 
In deference to the .. silent cheering" system which was inaugurated this year between the halves of the home and Army games, the Band gave up the marching activi­ties it hitherto had performed at those times. This doe:> not mean, however, th~t Director Casasanta dispensed with all drilling this year, for, on the contrary, the band learned more intricate· formations than ever before and went through them before the games instead of between the 
halves. One of these, which was featured at the Carnegie 
Tech and Northwestern games, was the spelling· of the 
word .. Irish". The Band also formed the initial of each 
visiting team. 
The group was equally active in regard to musical drill. 
In addition to learning the school songs of the opposing 
teams on the . schedule, the men practiced classical music 
in connection with their work as a concert band. Every 
year after the football season, they. give several concerts. 
The Band also took an important part. in the special 
events which occurred during the season. Their rendition 
of .. Anchors Aweigh" greeted the Navy officials when 
the new stadium was formally dedicated. They also pro­
vided a musical welcome for Cardinal Patrick Hayes, Arch­
bishsop of· New York; when he visited the campus to 
dedicate the Law building. In addition, they were much 
in evidence at the pep meetings which were held. · 
The organization was headed by Vigilius Phillips, presi­
dent; John \Veibler, vice-president; and Albert Stewart, 
Junior officer. Henry Tholen again led the ,marching 
musicians as drum major. · ' 
Prof. Casasan~a's own compositions figured prominently -in the Band's repertoire. ..\Xlhen Irish Back.s Go Marching 
By" ·was featured. Father Eugene Burke, C,S.C., col­
laborated with Casasanta in this composition. 

.. 
U11iversity of Not1·e Dame 

Sho:ck Absorber Guardians 
By FRANK McADAMS, JR. 
cc H0\V about a pair of sweat socks?" ..Just out." 
This is the song so familiar to every a thlctc 

who has graced the athletic department since the time when Coach Rockne used to handle the equip­ment until the present day, and, if" one were to return forty years from now he would find the boys .. singing the blues.', · · 
A. R. (Tony) Schreiner and A. \V. (Keg) Kcgowicz now have the fate of thousands of dollars of equipment in their hands, and have prov~d themselves to be the best ..No" men on the campus. Theirs is a thankless job; they· arc always m the middle. These men must be masters of tact, firmness, and discrimination. The phenomenal growth of the size of the squad and the type of equipment used by Notre Dame athletic teams have made the equip­ment job an important one. There is a slogan which is always adhered to when equipment is purchased; ..Noth­ing ·is too good for the Irish." The results of such treat­ment, as records show, need no explaining. 
During the first three years of the Rockne regime, ..Rock" himself issued all the equipment so necessary to the man who is going out to get himself shoved about. As the squad grew larger, Coach Rockne found himself unable to attend to everything alone,· and the first equip­ment custodian was used. The job has passed in rapid succession through the hands of the following men; Johnny Mohardt, _Morrie Starrett, Rolang Gucnin, Leo Sutliffc, Max Houser, Jim Stewart,' Pat Canny, Botts Crowley, and Joe Canny. . · 
The old equipment room used to be where the manager's office now stands, with its old picket fence, bulging wooden shelves and equipment cluttered floor. The lack of space is afforded brought about the building of the new, enlarged, all-steel storage room. From this room 400 football men, 1,000 track men, 85 basketball men and 100 baseball men arc equipped during the year. This docs not include the interhall material. There is a complete drug store in this room; in fact, there is everything from corn pads to. shoe laces. _ 
. Much of the success of the team depends upon its cquio­mcnt and the way in which it is handled so much credit. must be given to uKcg" and uTony" for keeping the best equipped team in the country fully supplied at all time~. 
The Trainers 
T
HE s~aff of the trainers constitutes one of the 
mos_t In;tportant parts of any major football or­
. gamza~10n. \Vhcn such an organization, how­

ev.cr, IS m th_c .thick of the fight for a national champion­
ship, the trammg staff takes on even greater importance 
and may even prove to be the deciding factor in the team's 
success or failure. It was under this pressure tbat the 
Notre Dame training staff had to work d~ring the past 
season. 
The personnel· of this staff consisted of Dr. Frank 
Summers ~and Dr. Edward Su~mers, team physicians; 
~ugcnc (S.crap-Iron) Young, tramer; Ray De Cook, as­
sistant tr~mer; Gene Howery, assistant trainer; and Joe 
Kurth, assistant trainer. Kurth's activities on the football 
team prevented him from doing his share of the trainers' 
work, but he took up these duties after the season closed. 
"Scrap-Iron" Young, the head trainer, is a familiar and 
colorful figure in N otrc Dame athletics. Back in his own ~ndergraduate days, when he was a member of the track t~am as a two-milcr,. Young built up a reputation for ·himself as an "iron man." His favorite trick was to set up the bleachers for· a meet, and then go out and win the grueling two-mile event. Assistant Trainer De Cook is one of Coach Keogan's veterans on the basketball floor while Gene Howery, another assistant, is captain of th~ 
cross-country team and also a monogram man in track. 
While there were no broken bones for the team physi­
cians to care for, there were ·the usual number of cuts 
bruises, pulled muscles, sprains, dislocations and othc;
. . . ' 
mi.nor lllJUn~s-:-to say ~othing of several black eyes. The sk1ll of a trammg staff IS largely determined by its ability to c~re, for these. minor injuries and to prevent 'them from kcepmg the players out of the game. · 
One of the little dramas which occurred during the sea­
son in connection with the training crew came when 
Frank Carideo was injured in a practice session 'before the 
Carnegie Tech game. The All-American quarter-back was 
carried to the dressing room in an unconscious condition. 
Besides the trainers who were working anxiously over 
Carideo, Coach Rockne and members of the team were 
gathered around the injured star. \Vhen Caridco failed to 
respond to efforts to revive him, fear was held out that he 
had suffer~d a concussion. Just when everyone was al­
most convmced that the worst had happened, Carideo sat 
up and snapped out: "Get away, this is. a. ball game!" His 
ailment was merely a good, old-fashioned knockout. 
The methods of the trainer necessarily differ with the 
individual who is injured. \Vhilc it is extremely difficult 
to deal with some players when they arc hurt others arc 
ideal patients. It is a somewhat common, th~ugh never­
the less. praiseworthy oc~u~rcncc. for a player to cover up 
the scnousncss of an lllJUry m order to avoid being 
be.nched. \~hen,.. for exa~Rle, Tom Kassis cracked up 
With a chargmg Mustang m the opening game and re­
ceived a cut over his eye, he was extremely reluctant to 
leave the fray. M~dical treatment, however, proved that 
the cut was no ordmary one, and three stitches· had to be 
t:1kcn. 
Marty Brill and Tom Conley arc planning on starting a boys' camp near their home town of Philadelphia next summer. "Marty's capital and my brains" smiles Tom 
(C h k . ' ,
oug t to rna e 1t a success." 
-·<i 89 J~­

•I 
I. 

i 
I 


Where you can drink 9£ Nature'sGreatestHealthWaters 
Amid Surroundings of Unsurpassed Comfort and Elegance! 
· Visitors to this finely appointed, luxurious hotel acrlaim it one of the very finest resort hotels inAmerica. Refurnish~ redecorated and equipped with unsurpassed elegance, The Elms will appeal to the most fastidious ormostcritical guest. 
Here you can tone up your system, regain your health with our world fam~ Jl1ineral. watErs and bathsand ifyou wish, enjoy all the pleasures of ·resort life, golfing, swi.tn:mit:ig, horse-back riding, boating, tennis, etc. Fot: reservations or beautifully done book, fully illustrating the beauties of The Elms and Excelsior Springs, write, wire or phone F. F. Hagel,·Managing 'Director. 
The Blnu uonly 28 milesfrom 
-Kansas City, nestling amid sur­roundings of natxral beauty, with paved highways kadin~ in all dlrectiOru. 


U1tive,.sity of Not1·e Dame ' 


Congratulations NotreDame 
-..· .
..... 

Time, the eternal bookkeeper, closes his ledger and totals the assets another year, a great year, a year of achievements and splendid performance for Notre Dame. Perhaps the greatest football year in Notre Dame's history. To Knute Rockne and every member of his squad -Congratulations. 
Southern Pacific Officers and Staff 


For detailed infor­mation on how best to sec the Pacific Coast and choice of routes offered by. Southern Pacific write, o: P. Bartlett, P.T.M., 310 So. Michigan Blvd., Chicago, Ill. 

S
OUTHERN Pacific is proud in its.se­lection to have had as its guests the · Notre Dame football team enroute 
to Los Angeles. The Low altitude route of the world famed Golden State Limited of Rock Island­
. Southern Pacific offers direct main line ser­vice-quickest by hours-El Paso, Tucson, Chandler, Phoenix, Indio, and Palm Springs, America's sunniest playground. 
The shortest route and through sleeping cars to Agua Calienta and San Diego, Los Angeles and ~anta Barbara. 
Southern Pacilic 
I 
-·~ 91 }~­
Official Football Review-193 0 

The Answer to Notre Dame Football 
By LAWRENCE PERRy 
(CojJyrigbt, 1930 Soutb Beud Tribuue.) 
E\V YORK, Dec. 9.-As the amazing nar­always-made no difference. No boy, whatever his relig­
.N 
rative of that Notre Dame-S~uthern Calif­
orma game at Los Angeles· came over the radio into an uptown club on Saturday a man who follows n~tional football closely and whose opinions are not only bulwarked by knowledge of the game but by broad-minded points of view turned to a group of friends shrugging: 
"\Vhat is the answer to this Notre Dame football? You will say material. You will say coaching. You will say greater opportunity for extended practice sessions. All true. But Southern California, for instance, has no lack of the best material, has all necessary time for practice, has an excellent coach. So have other universities met and defeated by N ot~e Dame in the last two years. No, there 
is something  over  and above  those  things, something  as  
elusive  as  It  is  irresistible.  I  don't  know  what  it  is.  
\Vho does?  

The writer thinks he does. That mysterious element which inspires and informs Notre Dame play is a great underlying motive, an organic impulse that transcends sport and involv;es all that is highest in the human soul. Notre Dame football, to be explicit, is inspired by a cause and that cause is their religion. By this is not meant a fiery, indomitable impulse to prove that it takes a Roman Catholic football outfit to play the best football there is. Not at all. The impulse is deeper than that. 
These Notre Dame players are expressing upon the foot­ball field what religion means to them individually. Every game they play is built upon a sub-structure of religious aspiration. This is an. age of sophistication, so called. So there will be many, no doubt, who will smile at the above. \'{/'ell, let such as these be not too sure in their amusement. There is a lot more in life, in football, than your so­phisticate dreams of in his philosophy. There are stupendous things in human life which are not seen, which cannot be gripped and felt. 
To just what saint th;tt particular Southern California. game was dedicated by·. Notre Dame the writer docs not know. But it was dedicated to some Saint. «All games are. And whether a· Notre Dame player was a Roman Catholic or l>rotestan-there were both on this outfit, as 
"Our Jo1?s are Campus Wide" 
J.C.LAUBER&.CO. 
504 ... 508 E. LaSalle Ave~ 
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 

ious affiliation~ can come in contact with electricity and 
not feel it. 
In which connection is the story told by Ray Miller, a Notre Dame grad, now district attorney in Cleveland, Ohio. A player in the Notre Dame dressing room before a game in which the odds were ag~nst the Irish suggested that they say a little prayer before going out on the field. That player was George Gipp, son of a Methodist clergy-' man. The prayer was; offered and the boy who made it was Chet \'\lynn, son of a Baptist clergyman. There y.eu have the Notre Dame idea. 
. Knute Rockne. is a great coach, the greatest, and he has a sure knowledge of the heart of man and how to get into 
· his soul. But it rriay be suspected that not even he gets to the deep underlying reasons of all that his men accom­plish. Perhaps only the saintliest of priests do; those who · have walked in wisdom all the years and see through the veil. 
Princeton, outplaying Yale after. the most unsuccessful season in Nassau history; here, too, cause lay back of th~ game the Tigers played.:.._tradition and everything that tradition involves. No doubt the Navy will reveal this against \Vest Point next Saturday. But Notre· Dlme is always consistent. \Vithout fail, week after week, the. players. express 1 die best that is in them; and year after year. · 
Did you ever sec or hear of a Notre Dame player who 

-· played dirty football? Did you ever hear of an unsports­manlike Notre Dame team? Did you ever see a drunken Notre Dame student in the stands at a game? The .answers inevitably lie in the negative. Did you ever meet a Notre Dame man who was ashamed to believe in something eter­nally definite? Here, one. thinks, may be the answer to Notre Dame football. 
Only four teams scored against Notre Dame first tean.1 last season. They were Southern Methodist, Carnegie Tech, Drake, and Army. The Cadets' score followed a blocked kick and the others were· from scrimmage. Non'! of these teams -scored more than once against the varsity; 
The Cha1npions 
Stand out even Shoe Repairing 
WASHINGTON. SHOE REPAIR SHOP Co.. 
116 W. Washington Phone 2...2228 


U.1ziversity of Notre Dame 

Skidproof 


Sweeps aside all standard air p~essures-m.akes riding softer, easzer 
SAFER FROM ALL SKIDDING HAZARDS 
T
HESE two photographs made from · slow motion movies show you the amazing result of skid tests on wet pavements, snow and ·ice! They picture a new, sure kind of safety for the slippery .season-skid-safety you have never known before! 
-High-speed turns are hazzards no motorist likes to face but every slippery _mile of fali . and winter driving holds its threat· of emergency when you must either · turn quick, stop quick, or crash. 
General Dual Balloons are made for just such moments. True low air pressure is the rea­son. 
Stiff, hard tires slip and slide. 
. 
The tire that runs with extreme low air pressure is soft-skid­safe! It grips and clings on any road. It fulfills the niost impor­tant purpose of pneumatic tires.' 
O~ly the patented exclusive Blowout-Proof construction of the Dual Balloon permits these tremendously reduced low pres­sures. All-over flexibility elim­inates high pressure bounding, hard riding, skidding and risk of blowout. It puts more and softer rubber on the road for sure, safe traction. It turns you safe in emergencies. It grips the road for split second stops in a crisis. 
~ 

IJLOWOIJT-PROOF 
West  
WINE GENERAL TIRE COMPANY 1111 W. Jackson Blvd. , Monroe 4656  
PEARLMAN TIRE COMPANY 3006 W. Roosevelt Rd. Nevada 4692  
So11th  .  
SECURITY TIRE & BRAKE SERVICE 23rd at Cottage Grove Ave. Calumet 0383  
FRED ALLEN AUTO SUPPLY 1610 S. Michigan Calumet 2222  North  HIMES AUTO SUPPLY . 1955 Aildison Ave. Buckingham 3300  THORNE TIRE & SUPPLY l455 Montrose Blvd. Sunnyside 5:-JO 1  
WEST. HIGHLAND SERVICE 1900 W. 79th St. Triangle 3791  STATION  ABERNATHY BROS. 6050 Broadway Rogers Park 2462  BECKER TIRE COMPANY ' 2905 Elston Ave. Keystone 8112  OGDEN AUTO SUPPLY 1455 N. Ogden Ave. Dive:-sey 2191  


Notre Dame1 27i U. S. (.1 0 
·-. 
(Continued trom p:~se 85) 
eleventh minute of play. Carideo added the extra point with a place ~ick. Within three minutes Notre Dame's un­ending pressure paved he way for the second score. On a bad pass from center on his own 33-yard line, Duffield scooped the bobbling ball, took a quick look at the end and half-back bearing down on him on his own 45-yard line, and quickly kicked it over his own goal. 
The. Trojans' howl of glee over this quick witted action had not died down when Notre Dame, lining up, shot Schwartz, Brill, and Carideo over the position of Bob Hall, Trojal! tackle, and O'Connor, the dark horse full-back, rode· through the opening on an 80-yard touchdown dash. The Irish came back to score again early in the third period. 
Schwartz took the ball from his own 3 0-yard line to Southern California's 12 in two efforts, with Brill con­tributing a 3-yard gain. A penalty advanced the oval to the 7-yard line and the Irish nearly lost the ball when O'Connor fumbled. However, he recovered and on the 

·next play took a lateral pass from Schwartz and eluded three tacklers on his way across the goal. Carideo kicked goal. The fourth touchdown, coming in the last four minutes of play, was engineered by the combined second and third string, with Jaskwhich replacing Carideo and Lukats in at half for Schwartz. · 
\Vhen Notre Dame was held for downs, Mohler tried 

-a desperate Southern California pass from his own 20-yard line. Hanley intercepted, however. Then Dan bucked twice to the 11-yard line, and from there Lukats drive through a hole -as big as a roundhouse in the left side of the Trojan line. 
R. F. Conway Co. 
PAVING CONTRACTORS 33 N. LaSalle St.. Chicago Illinois 
Official Football Review-1930 



~03 No. Main St. 
Home made candies and salted nuts fresh each day from our local kitchen. 
. Christmas hard candies and novelties for children. 
SJJecial Attention to Mail Orders 
The Sportsman's Own Store 

ARE you an active combatant, indulging the 
bruises of the more strenuous pastime, or merely a spectator at the big events? In either case you know The Fair is the acknowledged store for sports:.. men..uEverything to wear; everything with which to play the game!" 
A Gre11t Store in 11 Gre11t Cit:Y 
·Jr]H[m: lFAXR 
&tate. Adam• and Dearborn litrecta 
Oak Pule-Lake ac Narioa SL · MUwaukee An. at Wood •u 1\eo Tr•nd Is to TN f•it, WhH• SM.tt Style h .:Cod..-•t•ly Pric:~ 

Write for This Free Book How to Roller Skate  ~~ "Ct!!£~qo~~ -Roller Sh.a.tes RU»BERTmES For Health's SaJte ~Roller SJtate Fast, silent, "CHICAGOS," with their shock-~bs-orbing, long-wearing _ rubber tires, have made roller skating more popular than ever. College ltudents, movie stars, people everywhere,-have-taken up this thrilling, health£ul sport. Our new No. 181 Super Skate is a beauty! From your dealer or sent' direct £or $4 and dealer's name. A roller skate for every purpose. THE CHOICE OF CHAMPIONS cJIICllGO~OliJt CHICAGO ROLLER SKATE-CO. 4412 W. Lake St., Chicago JFJLYJIN Rollir Skates The Strongest and Fastest Roller Skates l\fadc  


U11iversity of Not1·e Dame 
there are no finer clothes than those tailored 
by JERREMS 

The inspiring pride of. four generations­· since 1 868-is the driving motive that keeps this organization young and alert·­ideally s.uited to Fill the requirements of distinguished gentlemen. That is · the 
I 

testimony to our claim .. of leadership­and for that record, we may be per­mitted a pardonable pride. 
«-» 

A~ W. ·Jerrems Jack F. Rissman 
Chairman of the Board,]errems, Inc. rice-President, ]errems, Inc. 
LONDON «» NEW YORK «» CHICAGO «» LOS ANGELES KANSAS CITY «» DES MOINES 

· Official Football Review-1930 · 

Best ·Wishes of 
AMBASSADOR 
.HO,TEL· 
Los 'Angeles, California .. 

A. Fran]z and Bill Fran]z 

that Rockne teams arc as magnificent in defending as in attacking. After striking the vital blow, the Irish were smarter and stronger than their rivals and proved their superiority convincingly. 
The victory earned the Irish the midwestern title over the best team in the Big Ten, and it was another triumph of the Rockne system over that of \Yfarner. 
The term "Fighting Irish," originated in 1909 when Michigan was beating Notre Dame, 3 to 0. .Pete Vaughn, disgusted at Notre Dame's poor showing, shouted, "\'{!hat's the matter with you guys? You're all Irish and you're not fighting!" Notre Dame won the game, 11 to 3, and Vaughn's remark went on to posterity through the medium of an alert newshawk. 
I 

Business: Longbeach 2966 Phones Ambulance Edgewater 2966
{ 
Personal Edgewater 3991 
Motor Ambulances 
GEORGE KLANER 
Funeral Director 
41'7 BROADWAY CHICAGO 
Hotel
I 
Mishawaka 
Mishawaka, Ind. 
F.:Brill, Mgr. 

A DELIGHTFUL PLACE TO STAY 
, ~ 
Notre Dame Alumni and their Friends Always Welcome 
REASONABLE RATES 


The Review's All-Opponent Tearn 
(Continued from page 53) 
defe~se rapidly in spite of his 200-odd pounds, and his offensive work was largely responsible for the large gains made by the \Vildcat backs in the early part of their game with Notre Dame. He was perhaps the most consistent all-around man Northwestern had in its march to the \Vestern Conference championship. 
Close seconds to these two at this position were Price of Army, Riley of Northwestern, Capt: Skeeters of Southern Methodist, Hall of Southern_ California, and Highberger and Fletcher of Carnegie Tech. _ 
:Material at guard during the past season was perhaps more abundant than at any other position. A number of fine players distinguished themselves and the choice here was the hardest we had to make.. The great leadership and grit of Army's Capt. Charles (Polly) Humber, in addition to his steady, hard play, gives him a slight edge on the other brilliant right guards, however; and John ~aker, ·of Southern California, who is among the outstanding all­American left guard candidates as we go to press, played inspired ball which marked him as great even in the crushing Notre Dame victory. His work all season won him recognition from the experts and he proved his. merit when the going was toughest. 
Capt. John Dreshar of Carnegie was another_ fine leader who played this position, Zeller of Indiana was the spark­plug of the Hoosier .line and he even step_eed into the backfield on occasion to carry the ball; \Villson of Penn not only played a bang-up offensive game which stood out brilliantly in Notre Dame's 60 to 20 triumph, but, he proved himself the best open-field runner on the team · when he grabbed off a poor punt and ran it from mid­field to the seven-yard line after shaking off a half-dozen tacklers. 
At ·center, \Valda Don Carlos, the nonchalant Drake warrior who wa~ chosen on last year's Review team stood out head and shoulders above any pi~oi: men other teams had to offer. Against Notre Dame, he made three-fourths of the tackles of his team, his passing was accurate, he covered well on passes, and he exemplified everything a roving center should. \Vith apparent ease, he broke up Notre Dame's strongest running plays and he showed un­erring instinct in following the most intricate of Rockne formations. Playing with a better-known club, he un­doubtedly would be all-American. Ducanis, of Carnegie Tech, was a veteran ball-snapper who also played con­sistent ball all season; Miller of Army played an· inspired game against Notre Dame, Clark of Northwestern formed the nucleus of a strong Northwestern line, and \Villia.mson of Southern California, Eagle of Penn, and Daugherty of Pittsburgh are all worthy of consideration. 
Almost every team Notre Dame met boasted a smart, able field general, but the brilliant leadership of the ..mighty atom," Drake's Capt. Lynn King, who led his· Bulldogs against Notre Dame· in spite of the fact that two bones in his left hand were broken, makes him stand out above the rest. He slashed the powerful Irish line with a fury th~t usually does not _go with a signal caller; he ·threw passes, he caught passes, and he directed the com­plicated Drake attack like a master. He was probably second only to Notre Dame's all-American Carideo, as he led his little band through a rigorous season. He always provided the punch and the ccpepper" that makes the Bull­
dogs the colorful group they are. . 
Official Football Review-193 0 

Carver of Army, Duffield and Mohler of Southern Cal­ifornia, Capt. Brubaker of Indiana, Capt. Baker of Pitts­burgh, Lee Hanley of Northwestern, McCurdy of Carnegie Tech, and Graupner of Penn all played credit­ably and there was little to choose between them. None, however, had the brilliancy of King. 
The half-back position presented a problem and there was no end o.f discussion before \Vcldon (Speedy) Mason of Southern Methodist, and Howard Eyth of Car­negie Tech were nomina-ted for first string ranking. Both, 
:howevet·, are excellent triple-threat men, staunch de­fenders, and real fighters. It was Eyth who made the ­longest run of the year· against Notre Dame, a cut through the center of the line which fooled the Irish secondary and sent him speeding 72 yards to a touchdown. He and ·Mason were perhaps the best open-field runners Notre Dame met and both were excellent passers and pass receivers. Both the Mustang and Skibo attacks were based on speed and deception and the work of these two m.en fitted in exactly with their coaches' demands. 
Tschirgi and Kirn of Navy, Frentzcl of Army, Van Katen and his substitute, Lansrud, of Drake; Bruder of Northwestern, Pinckert and Apsit of U. S. C., Kattman of Southern Methodist; Opasik of Indiana, Heller and \Villiams of Pittsburgh, and Perina, Gentle and Masters of Pennsylvania were also impressive against Notre Dame and throughout the season. 
There was little doubt that hard-hitting Reb Russell of Northwestern, ·who alone did enough ground-gaining to keep the \Vildcats pressing into Notre Dame territory in the first half, was the outstanding full-back of the season.. Although he was knocked out by Schwartz's vicious tackle in the first period, he ·got up and came back as strong· as ever with a determination and drive that was not to be denied. He took plenty of punishment "but, as the scouts had warned, .. he liked it," and he retaliated with plenty ·of his own. His tackling and blocking was above aver­age but his fine ,crashing alone was enough to make him good enough for any man's all-American. 
Hopper of Southern Methodist, who was· a good' pass receiver as well as an excellent plunger; .. Bull" Karcis of Carnegie Tech; Hood of Pittsburgh, Hagberg of Navy, and Musick and Shaver of Southern California, were also. mentioned prominently by the coaches, players, and scouts for all-Opponent honors. 
The Irish 
Green was their raimueut in Nature's glare, Light were their be arts from a spiritual fare; Sweetened tbe breeze by October's sun­Pleased, if JiOu will, at tbe. wholesome fun. Clean was tbe sj1eech of the Emerald hosts; Brilliaut tbeir play-yet devoid of boasts; Fierce in their tacHes, but never small­rry(lin lilu a sportsma11~or not at all." Hapj1y tbeir visit, aud small the jJaiu-So loug, Roclwe.:._but come agai11.· 
-CHARLES J. DOYLE. 

(Editor's Note--The foregoing poem appeared in the Pittsburgh Su11-Telegrapb after the Pitt-Notre Dame game. "Chilly" Doyle, its author, sent it on to his great and good friend Knute Rockne and we are pleased to repeat it here.) 
-~1 98 ~­
Unive1·sity of Not1·e Dame 
Notre Dame, 60i Penn, 20 
(Continued from p3gc 77) 

They had a great line giving them a chance and they had as fine blocking and all-around interfering as any backs could ask for. They simply ran amuck. 
The four horsemen· averaged around 162 pounds. This Notre Dame backfield to-day averaged around 190 pounds and it was just as fa~t as the four horsemen. Pennsylvania never had a chance. If Rockne had cared' to. keep. in his first string he could. ha.ve run the score up to 90 or 100 points. As it was; his first string averaged better than this final counting for the time they were in. There was, however, a big drop to his second and third strings. It was against these reserves that Penn scored three touch­downs. Two came on forward passes to Perina over the goal line. The other came on a short buck ·after a series . of fumbles on botp sides that finally gave Penn its third c_hance. 
Reserves Are Much Below Par 

Penn's attack was helpless a.gainst Notre Dame's first string. It couldn't make a first down. It had difficulty in gaining inches. But it carried the ball well against the reserves, who were far below the top layer of talent. Brill alone scored three touchdowns and two of them came on long shifting, exciting runs where he showed everything a fine back needs. He weaved and shifted. He used a killing straight arm. He worked his way through with a cool head and he always had the ablest possible support. 
As ball carriers Savoldi and Schwartz were only a step away. They ran with great speed and driving power. They were hard to stop, even when tackled cleanly. They 
.. 
held their feet and kept plowing on and they were fas't enough to swerve and follow the interference provided. This first string Notre Dame team was something to look at in football. It is so far beyond anything the season has shown there is no comparison for here you have strength, bulk, power and ama~ing speed, all ably directed by one of the great quarter,-backs of the day, and in ~ront they had a forward wall that charged and slashed and opened up and did a great all around job. Brill, Schwartz and Savoldi ran up three touchdowns before you could b~eathe twice after Brill got started. The first string· scored 28 points against Penn in less than two periods. Penn's only battle with Notre Dame was with the second and third string entries, who had rough sailing. 
Didn't Need Passes 

Notre Dame made most of its distance by the running game. Few passes worked on either side. Notre Dame had no need of passes when almost every other play was good for a touchdown, once the Irish got warmed up and on their way. Notre Dame led, 28 to 0, at the end of the second period. Then Penn _scored on the second team through a long run by \Villson and a forward pass to Perina. 
But when Penn began to get busy again, Rockne rushed back his first string and a.gain the wild stampede headed by Brill and ably supported by. Savoldi, Schwartz and Mullins, started all over again. 
\Vhen ·his team had 53 points, made in less than 3 0 minutes of actual play, Rockne again gave his reserves a chance and again Penn got going. But the gap was too wide. The first battalion had left Pennsylvania slaughtered on the field as 80,000 spectators looked at the best team they had ever seen. 
Well done 
•  •  •  •  
That's the way  
That's the way we Because that's  
Right?  
Our co-operation with the management of the Notre Dame Review in the . production of this volJtme has been·  L. P.  
one  of  our  pleasant privileges.  

II 

Notre Dame 
we like to sec things done •. right. That's the way our customers like to sec things done • right. always· try to do things right. 
the only .way to get things done Right! 
HARDY COMPANY 
Printers and Lithographers Direct Advertising Service 
.SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 



Watch-Charm Guards 
. (Continued from p~gc 62) 
Again, the guard may catch the signal wrong and pull out to the wrong side and collide .with the other guard comi~g out from that side with all the power and speed 
··that h~ can muster. Toin Kassis was injured early in the season when this happened and his head cracked against a reserve guard's helmet opening a long gas4 above his eye. 
\'{Then I was playing at Notre Dame, Rockne had an unusually slow-thinking reserve guard on t~e squad, but an injury to the regular guard and this man's great fight­
·ing spirit put him up with the varsity in practice. In the excitement of the day, he immediately went blank above the $boulders, and started pulling out and staying in at exactly the wrong tiine. Rock was exasperated for a while, then his quick wit came to the rescue . 
. .. \Vheriever an end run is called and. he is not supposed to pull out," he told me, uyou holler •NO!' as loud as you can. \Vhen he is supposed to pull out, holler •YES! '­and next year we'll use letters instead of numbers for signals. Numbers seem to confuse the boys." 
I guess Rock has been threatening to make this change ­ever since, but if he can continue to have guards· as smart as Cannon and Law of the 1929 team, and as brainy as Kassis and Metzger of the 19 3 0 eleven, he need not worry. 
Although he fumbled once and recovered for no gain, 
.Bucky O'Connor averaged ~ 0.9 yards on his 10 ·trips with the ball against Southern California. His 109 yards were almost as many as the entire Trojan team made. 
Official Football Review-1930 
We built the Outer Drive, Field Museum to Thirty..-ninth St. and Century of Progress Road Soldiers Field to·39th St. 
• 
John A. McGarry & Co. 
Paving Contractors 
Suite 1303 :-: 189 W. Madison St. Telephone Randolph 4908 
CHICAGO ILLINOIS 

J. F. Donahue J. I. Pavey .M. C. Hendershot President Vice-President Treasurer Congratulations to the I930 Team \ \ SOUTH BEND LUMBER CO. NATIONAL LUMBER CO. . . RIVER PARK LUMBER CO; HOME MODERNIZING CO.  


U1tiversity of N ot1·e Dame 
The Apex of the Attack 
(Continued from p~ge 63) 

to the punter, a pass with a. lead to a shifting back going off· tackle or around end, and ·a. pass with a lead for runs and passes from punt formation. The ball must be thrown at just .th~ right tiine and in the right direction or it will 
. throw the backoff stride and perhaps raise him up, thus destroying the effectiveness of the play. · 
. On offense, the center must learn to charge and pass. in one continuous motion and to block a hole left by an interfering lineman pulling out. · He must also know the characteristics of his backs' and know just how to· .. feed" the ball to them. If the backs have confidence in the center, they can concentrate on more vital things. 
The center's defensive play is also invaluable to his team ·if he can back up the line well against both running plays and passes. His first job is to watch where the ball goes and, with that as a tip-off as to what he may expect,-he ·either stays in the line, pulls out to bolser up he flanks, or ··drops back to defe~d against passes by covering a certain man or zone. He must keep always before him the tactical ·situation,~ such as the down, the distance to go, t~e position of the ball on the field, the score, the ~~me to go, and so on. 
His ·hardest defensive job is covering on passes for he must first hit the line so that he cari go on through if necessary, then he must pick out his man or zone and drop 

.back to pick up the receiver.. If his man is very fast, this is difficult, but with experience it becomes easier. The .a~erage back will give away the play by some little man­nerism which the center can pick up by careful watching. 
SUC(JESS TO 
The Fightin' Irish 
Co11tPli11t~1tts of 
·Edward B. Dunigan Oak Park; Illinois 
INVESTMENT 
Reat Estate Public Utility
BONDS 
Industrial Municipal Railroad Foreign 
CONSERVATIVE INVESTORS 
D. A. DOBRY SECURITIES CO. 
CHICAGO 
DES MOINES PEORIA DAVENPORT·
THE 
NEWS~ TIMES 

.'The House of Service and Protection 
.I I j I 

11Keep Your Eye pn the Ball11 
. (Continued from page 62) 
has been in the minds of my men. A large number of 
early season games arc lost when fumbling teams have · 
their .bobbles recovered by a ball-hawk among the oppo­. sition which capitalizes on the y:trds gained in the misplay. 

· A great deal of the glory once the ball-hawk's has been taken· away since 1928 because members of the Rules Committee in that year amended the fumble rule so that a recovered fumble cannot be advanced by the defensive ' team, thus making it less dangerous for the team that fumbles often. 
Baylor University used to terrorize its_ opponents with 
the famous hidden ball trick nearly 20 years ago. The 
quarter-back took the baH from center, placed it on the guard's leg, and there it remained until the defensive team ·had drifted toward the faking half-back; then the end or wing-back would swing around and sco6p it up and on very few occasions was he stopped short of a touchdown. 
Ever-changing offenses, always · more intricate than 
those that have gone before, make the old adage more 
worthy of stress than ever before. Some years ago, Field­
ing H. (Hurry Up) Yost of Michigan strongly maintained 
that the player who recovers fumbles is an idler and a 
loafer. Otherwise, Yost insisted, he would have been in 
the midst of a 'play and not lurking around where he 
would be in position to recover. This is unsound reason­
'ing because all defensive players strive to get at the ball­
carrier or the ball itself. Yost's influence at the time led 
Official Football ~e~iew-1930 
indirectly to the rule preventing a defensive player from advancing a recovered fumble . 
Rockne, our own famous coach, emphasizes his first defensive prjciplc: ((Hound the ball!" 
The development of football offensive in so far as the hidden ball, spinning, . and . other machinations of the offense are concerned, has reached such a perplexing stage that I think I may predict safely for the future that each backfield will be ad9rned with bushy mustachios and beards in which the ball may be hidden securely. To meet· this wrinkle, it is not impossible to be~ieve that the defen­sive team will needs have large combs as a part of their equipment. Some day, perhaps, Notre Dame will win from Army by out-combing the Cadets. 
Compliment~ 
of the 
LEATHER SHOP 
132 No. Michigan St. 

GREAT ·LAKES DRE.DGE & DocK CoMPANY CHICAGO RIVER AND HARBOR IMPROVEMENTS ALBANY MILWAUKEE PHILADELPHIA CLEVELAND FOUNDATIONS, BRIDGES, PIERS, BREAKWATERS, LIGHTHOUSES, NEW YORK SAULT STE MARIE TUNNELS, PNEUMATIC AND SUB-MARINE .WORK . BUFFALO  
--)~ 102 r~­


U11ive1·sity of Not1·e Dame 
High-Test Football 
(Continued from page 63) 

with his Drake Bulldogs, again presented a new style. of play in which only two backs carry the ball and two others do the blocking. Drake, in spite of its lack ~f national recognition, had one of the smoothest-working offenses we met all season and it was one of the three teams to score at all on the varsity from scrimmage. Army also scored on us, but their touchdown came on a blocked kick and recovery. 
Northwestern and Army both employed the \Varner style of attack and the former offered more power while the Cadets had more deception.· It was fortunate for us, in a way, that Army came after Northwestern for the campus was covered with nearly two feet of snow and outside practice was impossible before that game. 
Perhaps the most deceptive, most highly developed of­fense we met all season was against Southern California. Its deception lay in the fac.t that when the team came out of its huddle, it did not shift immediately into posi­tion, b~t lined up behind the center. There w~s a quick shift into the formation called, and the ball was snapped before the defense had a chance to get set. · _ 
Lest all of this might be taken to indicate that Notre Dame football players spend most of their time working on problems of defense, I might point: out here that the maximum amount of practice put in each day is two hours and, as the season progresses and the tea~ develops, this time is often cut in half. The shorter days m the late fall make it impossible to practice later than five o'cloc~ and·.the Notre Dame practice field, unlike many others, IS n.ot eq~ipped with flood-lights. 
/J:,vingston' s 


I 
·! 
I 
! 
I 
.I 
I 
THE 

J I I l  NOTRE  F.OR DANIE lviEN  
I I 1 1  

The offense is a source of worry to the coaches each fall, but once it starts to ((click" their worries are some­what relieved. Notre Dame, following out all \Vestern Conference rules, although not a member, has only three 
weeks of practice before the  season  opens and  to  get  a  
group of men working as  a unit in  that tim~  requires  a.  
grea~  deal of work.  .  .  

It is often a source of surpnse to outsiders the amount of rest Rockne gives his varsity. He figures that th.e team will get only so good no matter how much work IS done and often after a hard game, th~ team will not return to practice until \Vednesdy, never before Tuesday. . . 
This gives the players a chance to keep up m their studies and also gives them tim~ to replace by rest the energy used up in a tough game. . · 
It was the wonderful spirit of Coach Rockne wh1ch en­abled us to go through undefeated. He never under­estimated an opponent and usually he got us to fight by impressing. us so strongly with our opponents' strength before the game that we were afraid to go out and d.o anything but fight. The excellent u.s~ he made of h1s material and of the many fine traditiOns Notre. Dame players of the past have built up made it possibl.e for us to be successful in the past two seasons of ((H1gh Test Football." · 
Here's one tht actually happened last fall. In one of Notre D~me's games a. player with the opposition became a bit over-zealous and an official, who was a salesman for a large sporting goods house, told him to take it easy or he would be penalized. ((Yea," grinned the offender, .. pen­alize me and you won't get our shoe .order next fall." 
Congratulations · Great Football Team 

• 
Northern Indiana Railway, Inc. 

I l 
l 
I 

-·I Official Football Review-1930 
Rissman Trophy ·Permanently Notre Dame's 
T
HE close of the· 1930 football season found Notre Dame at the top of the heap, straddling the football world like a Colossus, master of all 
i~ surveyed with perhaps the greatest team in history. 
Immediately after the closing game of 1930, with Southern California, Notre Dame was proclaimed the na­tional champion and the J~ck F. Rissman trophy became the permanent possession of the Irish. The trophy is given annually to the team which, according to the Dr. Frank 
G. Dickenson system of rating, was the outstanding of the country. To win the award permanently it ~as necessary for a team to be adjudged the best in the land three times within a decade; 
The undefeated Four Horsemen of 1924, gave Notre Dame its :first leg in the beautiful plaque, and the 1929 eleven brought a further claim. And now the great eleven of 1930 has brought it to its :fi.nal resting place. 
M~. Rissman, the donor of the trophy, is one of Chi­cago's best known sportsmen and he is especially interested in the clean, virile game which every fall holds the atten­tion of millions. In making the annual award for tempor­ary possession of the trophy, he was guided by the selec­tions of Dr. Dickenson whose system consists in giving a team so many points for each victory over a major oppo­nent, fewer points for a victory over a lesser foe, and so forth. Alabama _and \Vashington State were runners-up to Notre Dame last season and, at the time of going to 
-FINE. FOODS-· 
AT LOW PRICESI 

THE, GREAT 
c·-­
ATLANTIC & ·pACIFIC. 
TEA COMPANY 
MIDDLE WESTERN DIVISION 
press, they were· scheduled to meet in the Tournament of Roses 'game on the Coast during the holiday season. 
It is interesting to note h:!re that in wim.1ng two na­tional championships in consec-:.1tive sea~~ms) Colch Rockne ·has repeated his_ feat of a decade ago when his 1919 and 
1920 teams went undefeated and won \Vestern tides. 

In winning its third na.tional·title, Notre Dame made 130 :first downs to its opponents' 75. The Irish gained · 3,109 yards from scrimmage to 961 for the op_position. · 
Many notable men, long since graduates of Notre Dame from all corners of the 
U. S. A. continue to wear our clothes. 
·There ·is a reasou. 
.@mtnmb'~efl./Nc. 
_, &,VI~I·;;~q:Jailiru . 
123 \Vest \Vashington ~i:reet 

Spalding Equipment 
·you'll find authentic outfits .for practically every sport 
~~~~­
211 S. STATE STREET1 CHICAG01 ILLINOIS 

'-·~i 104 }£E-­
U11ive1·sity of Not1·e Dame 
Hotel Elkhart 
E. ]. Harris, Mgr. 

I I 
1­
ELKHART'S NEW MILLI9N DOLLAR HOTEL 
15 Miles East of Notre Dame 
Elkhart, Indiana . 
)).(( 
Co1~tpli11te1tts of 
Hugh Mulligan and 

J 
l l· 
I 
j' 
I I I 
I 
I 
I 
1 
I 
i 
l 1 -l 
I 
l I j l 
;
: j 
J ­
250 Rooms ·FIREPROOF 
Cafeteria=and Dining Roont Service 
R. K~ 0. 
A11d the entire· 
RADIO-KEITH-ORPHEUM CORP. 
Co1tg1~atulate-
Men of Notre Dame 
a11d 
Knute K. Ro·ckne 
011 the 
VICTORIES of 1930 

R. K. 0. -PALACE R. K. 0. -GRANADA 
100% Behind the Team-' 
Buddy Hooton, City Mgr. 
Patrick Collins 
))(( 
An Achievement -: .Well Wo~th Notingl 
The World's Largest Store Co1tg1·atulates N ot1·e Da11te i93 0 Football T ea11~ as .Cha11tpio1ts · 
and wishes every team that plays und.er the Gold and Blue unbo~nded success. 
/ 
SEARS; ROEBUCK and CO. 
RETAIL DEPARTMENT STORE 
425 South. Michigan St. SOUTH BEND INDIANA 


Official Football Review-1930 

. a succession of straight plunges for 63 yards and the final
11A~d Something Abid~s 11 

touchdown of the day. 
(Continued from page 55) . 

A new Notre Dame team took up the burden after the · Mohardt and all the others? But still a new era was ap­Four Horsemen had galloped away into football's Val-· proaching in which Cartier field was to feel the hoofbeats halla. The days of Christy Flanagan had arrived. Though of the Four Horsemen and Seven Mules. this team neved did complete a season undefeated, it gave Layden, Crowley, Miller and Stuhldreher, together with players of the future some mighty achievements to follow. the great line behind which 'they operated, had many For instance, there was that day in 1925 when the team glamorous days, but there was one especially ~hi~h was ·seemed ready to forsake the traditions of Cartier field unforgettable. It was the afternoon in 1924, when Ne-and yield to Northwestern. For the Wildcats were lead­braska came to do battle on Cartier field. ' ing 10 to 0 at the half and the Irish seemed to have lost 
For two consecutive seasons Notre Dame had gone un­their spirit. Then this team, which had been considered defeated right up until the last game, only to fall before mediocre, went out for the second half and played what the mighty Cornhuskcrs on· their field at Lincoln, Ne­Coach Rockne has called the greatest ten minutes· of foot­braska. But this was another year and there was to be ball he has ever seen. At the end of this ten minutes the another story to tell. It would be the last season ·in which score was Notre Dame, 13; Northwestern, 10-and an­the Four Horsemen would play together. They were still other link was added to the victory chain. unbeaten. 1 But this skein was snapped at last in ·1928. Carnegie 
For days the· newspapers had been casting doubt upon Tech's crushing onslaught tore the Notre Dame forward the ability of the Four Horsemen to shake off the Ne­wall to pieces and before all of the spectators were seated, braska jinx which had been following them for two years. the score was 13 to 0. After putting up one of the The student body was keyed to the utmost, but the atti­gamest fights of any Notre Dame team, the Irish were tude of the players still was a mystery. \Vould they be beaten, 27 to 7. Last year's unbeaten eleven whipped the shaky and unstrung before their arch enemies, or would Scots, 7 to 0, and this season's team crushed them, 21 to 6. · they be calm and confident and capable as they had been Thus did Notre Dame take vengeance for its one defeat in_ all their other games .this season.. on Cartier field since 1905. · 
The answer was not long in coming. After. the shock \Vhen this year's team began the season in 1:he new troops had given Nebraska a 6 to 0 lead, the Four Horse­stadium it was told, in effect, uyou are given t~is sod men and their mates were rushed in. Then began a stun­upon which to play, but with it you arc given a responsi­ning assault which scored again and again and left the bility. You are made custodians of Notre Dame's tradi­Cornhuskcrs utterly demoralized..Their once mighty line tion of victory." was so torn to shreds that late in the game, Elmer Layden, The score cards show how the team has carried on that the one regular back left in, ploughed single-handed on tradition. 
Compliments of 
YELLOW CAB CO. 
Phon.e 3 ...5151 
AND 
SOUTH BEND CAB CO. 
Phone 3 ..2525 
Established 1873 
Compliments of 
Frank Mayr & Sons 
Jewelers 
122 N. MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND, IND. 
Emil Reyer, Ph.G H. K. Schwarz, R. Ph. Wm. A. Ehrich, R.Ph. 
THE RELIANCE PHARMACY 
I11c. 
Telephone 2-5392 230 W. Washi~gton Ave. Cor. Laf~yette South Bend, Ind. 

1.!==============·­
Congratulations 
THE. BOOK SHOP .119 N. Mich. ·St. 


"'i 
l I 
l 
I 
l 
I 
i 
I 
I 
I I 
I 
I I I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I I ~ 
I 
I I 
I 
I 
.1 
I 
I 
l 
j I 
I I 
j 
l 
1 
l 
l 
! 
! 
j 
1 
j 
I 
l 
l 
I 
\ 
! 
!~ -· 

U1zive1·sity of Notre Dame 
Co11tplime1zts "' 
SUPERIOR REFRIGERATION CO. 
FRIGIDAIRE 
PRODUCT OF GENERAL MOTORS 118 W. Colfax 
: 
Hotel Hoffmann Hotel La Salle Annex 
South Bend, Ind. South Bend, Ind. 
HOFFMANN 
HOTELS 
Where Friendly Service Prevails 
HoteL La Salle Hotel Fort Armstrong 
South.Bend, htd. Rock Island, Ill. 





11Refreshments -for Newspapermen11 
(Continued from page 57) 
tackle. They are all trained-you can't fool me-in that critics' cage, at half time, when the word is given that refreshments are ready. _ 
·(Author's note: ufor newspapermen" has been deleted by the censor.) I was .SO interested in that new press box, that I went out to see it, one· Thursday afternoon.· There were no refreshments being served then, and one ha4 a chance to see the place. This is no sedentary critic who is raising his index finger over the Underwood keys, mark you! 
It is one who has frozen atop the Yale ·Bowl, drowned atop the Harvard Stadium, sailed along in the gale at Princeton's interment camp for press men, who has roasted in the Rose Bowl at Pasadena, cooked in the Coliseum at Los Angeles, who has dealt words and phrases off the arm in every stadium of consequence, from Gatalina to Cam­bridge, from Atlanta to Seattle. 
And this moving finger writes that nowhere in all the land, is there a press coop comparable for comforts, to that at Notre Dame. And the mov:ng finger, having writ, moves on! 
There is elbow room, to begin with. There is visibility. There is ample attention, mechanically, to all the require­ments of the reporting profession. 
And there i~-most important of all-a more than reasonable assurance that, while K. K. Rockne lives, there will always be something going on out there that will ~e worth watching from such a worthy perch. 
Congratulations to a Great Team 
RALPH SOLLITT &SONS CONSTRUCTION CO. 
Builders of the Netv Notre Dame Stadium 
SOUTH BEHD, IND. CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 




--(-[ 108 ~­
l I 
I
I , 
I. 
I 
j 
1 
I I 
l I 
l 
Used by Notre Dame and St. Marys 
·I FRANKLIN COUNTY COAL CO.
l CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 
l 
l: 

-·~:of .1 09

l 
I
I -. 
I 
BETTER STILL ARE OUR ENLARGEMENTS OF YOUR BEST PICTURES 
You'll be Delighted. With the Results 
Quick.Service o1t Border Pri1tts 
AULT CAMERA SHOPS 
122 S. Main St. 309 S. Michigan St. · 

UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME 
to their . W o1tde1"f?tl Staditt1Jt a1td 
Coach Rock1te's 
sple1tdid T ea1Jt 
I 
« )) 
.EDWARDS IRON WORKS 
2901 So. Main 

~­

11 Notre Dame students. Economic provisions already made,
11Paths of Glory Lead1 But -' J 
and practically assured income from athletics in the im­

(Continued from page H) mediate future, will prevent the University from suffer-
You remember the parable of the Good Samaritan. It ing unduly. · 
may be that Notre Dame, through its national make-up, It might not be out of place in' another direction to 
so far exceeds geographical boundaries that our immediate suggest that proper utilization of the Stadium can be­
fellow-citizens are not really our footb~ll neighbors. come a powerful civic asset for South Bend. There is every 
It may be that football has become so familiar to its reason to believe that Notre Dame schedules for the home 
public that the lines of sentimental association have weak-field can draw from 100,000 to 200,000 per~ons to South 
ened, and an intelligent football fan would just as will-Bend from outside the civic area. during the course of the 
ingly see a game between Northwestern and Minnesota as· season. Under the ordinary circumstances that surround 
between Carnegie Tech and Notre Dame. . such an influx, the civic income should profit from sev-
It may be that the provincial abuses that arise from the ' eral hundred thousand dollars up, not. to mention the 
transition period that lies between town and city have potential constructive influence of_ Notre Dame, _itself a 
caused a natural aversion to South Bend accommoda.tions civic asset. An industry which brought such a payroll 
incidental to a game at Notre Dame. Hotel, taxis, and to the city would be heralded, boosted and guided through 
meals, even a.t regular rates, do add to the week-end its infancy by the Chamber of Commerce. 
budget. However, the future of a man is not decided by his 
It may be that 24 years of games at home with but status on his first birthday. Nor is there any more reason ·one defeat have surfeited our home fans with victory, for jumping at conclusions concerning the new Stadium 
and have removed hope from those who come to scoff at the end of its first season. 
and refuse to remain for any other purpose. The writer is confident that campus, civic and extra-
This article is not intentionally critical. It is written territorial adjustments to the pre~ence of the the new 
only with a natural wonder that the climax for which structure will be made to the mutual progress of all,in­.Notre Dame and its many admirers in the field of sports teresed parties. have waited so long~the erection of the Stadium-should be more or less an anti-climax. Capacity crowds else­
. Marchy Schwartz led Irish· scoring for the past season 
where have removed much of the economic argument that 

with 54 points accruing from nine touchdowns. · Savoldi might be advanced. 
was second to him with only eight score~ for 18 points. 

It might not be out of place to suggest that Notre Frank Carideo, although he made only two touchdowns, 
Dame has no great cause for concern over the season's was third with. 39 points. He made 27 points after 
phenomenon. Athletics are primarily of, by and for the touchdowns. 
G1·eetings to the 
~OTRE DAME TEAM 
SOUTH BEND BLUE PRINT an-d SUPPLY COMPANY 
117 W. LaSalle Street South Bend, Ind. 
Andrew C. Weisburg 
proprietor 
Compliments 
of 
Oliver .Hotel South Bend, Ind. 
J. W. Misamore 
Manager 


-·~ 110 ~­

U1tive1·sity of N ot1·e Dame 
dn the-Othe~ Side of the Fence-· 
(Continued from p3ge 56) 
flaws in .a football pattern from a nice, comfortable seat 
in a stadium is comparatively easy. But try to do the 
same thing while out on a football field with. a flock of 
enemy tacklers hanging around your neck is a far differ­
ent thing. If you're able to do the right thing then, suc­
cess is yours. 
But that's football· If we were not permitted to voice 
our opinions as to what we think is right or wrong, then 
our three dollar seat wouldn't be worth the price. 
In spite of the urge which a uhas been" feels coming· 
over him to get out the suit, kick a few spirals, and throw 
a few passes it's much easier to relax and sit-back to talk 
of the good old.days when he did his ustuff." 
After it is all over and we realize that our days have 
been numbered, we can look back with a great deal of 

satisfaction and thank our lucky stars we had the oppor­tunity of working for the greatest of them all-Rockne. . The things we learned under him-sportsmanship, manli­
ness, courageousness-more than make up for what we 
have lost and make us realize that after all it isn't so 
terribly bad to be on this side of the fence. 
The week before they played Notre Dame, the Drake Bulldogs played a night game on Frida.y. The Notre Dame scout assigned to the game, thought:_ the contest was to be on Saturday and showed up after it had been played. Coach Ossie Solem of Drake, however, sent Rockne a com­plete scouting report of his team's plays, its strengths and its weaknesses so his fellow countryman might not be taken at disadvanta'ge. 
Lafayette 3700 
LASKER. BOILER 
& ENGINEERING 
CORPORATION 
Boilermakers and Steel Plate Engineers 
3201 SOUTH LINCOLN STREET 
CHICAGO 

Congratulations to the 

National Champions. 
-==~==--· 
===1! 
SOUTH BEND 
TRIBUNE 
SUPerior 1329 -1330 
Pipe_ and Boiler·Coverings_of Every Description 
Hot Water Tank Coverings 
Sm~ke Breeching and Ceiling Insulation 
Estimates Furnished 
Service ~ Quality of Workmanship Responsibility 
Paul J. Krez Co. 
442..44 N. La.Salle St., Chicago 


@'!:. 
k_ w ' 


i
.. 
~ i 
ti 
~: 
.;1 
L 

., ;; 
.'.l 
r 
'.: 
,, 
~ 
r 
f: 
'I 
,· 
:. 









Notre Dame Scholastic Football Pages 
Volume 64 Issue 11 12 December 1930 
The Notre Dame Scholastic 


HIGHLIGHTS OF FOOTBALL SEASON 
A 
GREAT TEAM, without a doubt, this 1930 bunch of Fighting Irish, and only the short, terse, meaty sentence from the lips of Chick Meehan: "The teaiii is 
the greatest in football history"— 
can fully express the convictions of 
the football world. 
And with all due deference to their 
great master and teacher may we add: 
a well-drilled team working to perfec­
tion all the while, overcoming handi­
caps which would ordinarily dim the 
morale of any normal team, sweeping 
on to ten consecutive victories. 
Added to the nine straight wins left 
over from the national championship 
season of 1929, Mr. Rockne's charges 
now have a record of 19 wins in a 
row, rivaling the 20-game winning-
streak which ran from October 4. 
1919 until October 10, 1921. 
Receiving a total of 25.13 points 
for their victories of the season, the 
Fighting Irish received the Jack F. 
||«|iiiimiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiii>iiiiiiiiiiiiii*iiiiiimiiiiiii«nii*"«pj 

STATISTICS OF THE I SEASON I 
i First Downs: = 
I Notre Dame, 130. f 
z Opponents, 75. | 
: Yds. Gained from Scrimmage: | I Notre Dame, 3109. [ : Opponents, 961. E 
I Forward Passes Completed: I 
I . Notre Dame, 24 of 93 for 437 I I yards. \ 
I Opponents, 46 of 127 for 599 i : yards. = 
E Penalties: I I Notre Dame, 421 yards. E E Opponents, 200 yards. E 

l"liiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiimtiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiinmfB] 
Rissman national Intercollegiate foot­ball trophy for the year 1930.- Not only did they receive it for the pres­ent season but for all time; three times a winner within the same dec­ade means permanent possession of the trophy. 
Washington State received 20.44 points and rated second place accord­ing to the manner of ranking under the Dickinson system, which is based on strength of team and opponents rather than percentages. Alabama, champion of the South, ranked third with 20.18 points. 


By JOHN A. KIENER 
[aliitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitt r^ 

I ALL-OPPOSITION | I TEAM I 
E (As selected from Notre Dame's | = ten opponents by the writer.) | 
i LE....Arbelbide (So. California) I I LT.,Highberger (Carnegie Tech) | i LG Baker (So. California) I = C Don Carlos (Drake) | I RG....Woodworth (Northwest'n) § i RT Suarez (Army) | E RE Long (Southern Meth.) I E QB Duffield (So. California) f E LH iMason (Southern Meth.) | E RH Pinckert (So. California) | I FB Russell (Northwestern) | 
[*]iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitimiiiimiinnininiiimniiiiinitiiiiiiii[g| 
The 27 to 0 win over Southern Cal­ifornia marked the 107th win of Rockne's career as a Notre Dame head coach. In thirteen years the Rockne teams have lost only 12 games with four resulting in ties, three of them scoreless. The all-time record, beginning with the first football game played back in 1887 against Michigan, is now recorded as 254 victories, 48 losses, and 17 ties. 
The summary of the ten games this season shows that Notre Dame scored half again as many first downs as did her opponents. In yards gained from scrimmage the Fighting Irish out­marched their opponents three to one. 
Although Notre Dame completed only 25% of its passes while the op­ponents completed 36%, its successful 
l^iiiiiniiiiiiiinintiiiiiniiiinniniiiiiiiinniiiiiiiiiimtiiiiiipj 


1 NATIONAL CHAMPIONS I I 1929-1930 j 
E Notre Dame 20, So. Methodist 14 E I Notre Dame 26, Navy 2 | E Notre Dame 21, Carnegie Tech 6 E I Notre Dame 35, Pittsburgh 19 i I Notre Dame 27, Indiana 0 E E Notre. Dame 60, Pennsylvania 20 S i Notre Dame 28, Drake 7 j E Notre Dame 14, Northwestern 0 = E Notre Dame 7, Army 6 I I Notre Dame 27, So. California 0 | 
265 74 I 

PI iiiiniiiiiiiiniiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiipl 
attempts amounted to 42% of the to­tal yardage gained by both via the air route. 
Apparently not wishing to be out­classed in any field of play, the Fight­ing Irish were penalized slightly more than twice the amount of yardage im­posed upon their opponents for in­fractions of the rules. 
The most decisive point of the sea­son just concluded was the double victory over the two service teams. This makes the third time in three consecutive seasons that both the Army and Navy have been defeated by Notre Dame on the gridiron. 
Southern Methodist's first touch­down and ensuing conversion was the only time during the entire season which saw Notre Dame on the short end of the score. 
Long runs were quite numerous throughout the season but Joe Savol­
plmiiiiniiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiimiiiiifj 


INDIVIDUAL POINT 

i  SCORING  i  
TD  PT Ttl.  E  
Schwartz, Ih  9  0  54  1  
Savoldi, fb  8  0  48  1  
Carideo, qb  2  27  39  1  
Brill, rh  6  0  36  
O'Connor, rh, fb  3  0  18  :  
Mullins,  fb  3  0  18  
Hanley,  fb  2  0  12  
Koken, Ih  2  0  12  :  
Lukats, Ih  1  0  6  E  
Staab,  fb  1  0  6  
Kosky, le  1  0  6  
Conley,  re  1  0  6  :  
Jaskwich, qb  0  3  3  
Cronin, qb  0  1  1  

39 31 265 

L^iiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii •a 
di's 90-yard return of a Southern Methodist kickoff was easily the out­standing one. Bucky O'Connor ran into second place by virtue of his 80­yard dash olT Southern California's left tackle last Saturday. Savoldi stepped 48 long .yards in the game with Navy for another touchdown run. 
Eyth of Carnegie Tech turned m the best performance for the opposing teams, running 70 yards through the riddled Notre Dame team. 
The most "remarkable" run of the season was undoubtedly Marchy Schwartz's 60-yard ramble on the first 
(Continued on Page 35S) 

The Notre Dame Scholastic 
and Newbold at forwards. Johnson and Farris, the newcomers of the Notre Dame line-up, exhibited some good floor-work and Avith a few weeks' experience should fit in very well with the Keogan style of play. 

The summaries:  
NOTRE DAME  (26)  FG  Fr  PF  
Newbold, f  2  1  1  
Crowe, f  0  1  8  
DeCook, c  (C)  4  3  4  
Johnson, g  2  2  1  
Farris, g  0  0  2  
Gavin, f  0  1  0  
Schumaker, f  1  0  1  
Butorac,  c  0  0  0  
Burns, g- 0  0  0  
Baldwin, J.,  g  0  0  0  
Schrader, c  0  0  0  
Totals  9  8  12  

KALAMAZOO (15) FG FT PF Garisson, f 1 0 0 Schau, R., f 0 0 2 Schau, M., c 0 0 3 Hachadorian, g 3 2 2 Murdoch, g (C) 2 1 1 McVicker, c 0 0 1 
Totals .6 9 
Officials: Referee, Warren. Umpire, Stahr. 


NICHOLSON ANNOUNCES TRACK SCHEDULE 

As has been his custom since as­suming the position of head track coach at Notre Dame some three or four years ago. Coach John P. Nichol­son has arranged a schedule for his tracksters this season which outdoes all schedules in Notre Dame history in its sevex-ity. The season opens the last week in January with the annual Varsity-Freshman meet and does not close until June 7, the final day of the National Intercollegiates. A lay-off of about a month separates the indoor and outdoor seasons. 
The unofficial schedule follows: 
Indoor 
Jan. 30—^Varsity-Freshman. 

Feb. 7—Milrose Games at New York, 
N. Y. 

Feb. 9—Seton Hall Games at New­ark, N. J. 
Feb. 14—Marquette, here. 
Feb. 21—Illinois, at Champaign. 
Feb. 28—Indiana, here. 

Mar. 6 and 7—Central Intercollegiate 
Conference Indoor Cham­
pionships, here. 
Mar. 14—^Illinois Indoor Relays, at Champaign. 
Oiitdoor 

Apr. 19—Kansas Relays, at Lawrence. Apr. 26—Penn Relays at Philadelphia. Drake Relays at Des Moines. May 2—^W^isconsin or Ohio here (ten­
tative) . May 9—^Navy at Annapolis. May 16—Indiana State Meet. May 23—Central Intercollegiate Con­
ference Outdoor Champion­ships, at Milwaukee. May 30—Open. ' June 6 and 7 — National Intercolle­giates, at Chicago. 
OFFICE 3-6978 RES. 2-6741 



Dr. Leo J. Quinlan 
DENTIST 
514 J. M. S. BXHLDING 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 
GO HOME FOR 



CHRISTMAS 
IN A Greyhound Parlor Car Special Low Round Trip Fares In Effect NO W 
You will save money — you will enjoy the trip, finding new interest in every mile — and travel in luxurious comfort if you go home for the Holidays in one of the Greyhound's big blue and white parlor cars of the highway. 
See me for tickats, time-tables and full information. 
117 Brownson Hall, ALBERT H. MONACELLI, Notre Dame, Ind. 







·,. 
I • 
' 
' 

Ma~e N_ew FriendS at the 
ALLERTON
-· . 
\, 

Horseback riding, 
Complimentary
skat~ng, swimming, 
house dances,
golf, bowling and 
bridge p_~rties, 
.interesti11g trips. 
concerts, etc.
Always·something 
·weekly
to do · 
--A. · P~ E ·-R· F · E c·· T CLUB H 0 M ·E. 

'i _1 000 outside soundproof rooms with R C A radio speaker in each room at 
i :.·i nq extra charge. An unobstructed ·view of beautiful_Lincoln Park, Upper. 
·.,.:·~· 
. Michigan A venue and Lake Michigan.. 10 floors for men, 7 floors for
i 
women ·and 4 floors for married couples and there is ·a well planned social progran1 ope~ to all· residents. 
Si~1gle Double (per person) 
· Daily $1.75. to_ $4.00 RATES Daily $1.50 to $2.50 . Weekly $1050 to $25.00 Weekly $8.50 to $12.50 
PHILIP E. COBDEN, .Yauager 
. . 
7oi· North Michigan Avenue ... Chicago . 
I 
i 
ALLERTON HOTEL Ii 
. . . i 

+•-••-••-:--t•-••-••-••-•r-••-••-••-•,":-••-••-aa-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••_;_••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-a•-a•-••-aa-~.J. 
+._.._ . ._.,_ . ._,,_,,_.,_.,_,•-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-•a-••-t•-••-••-••-••-.••-••-••-••-•a-at-11-tl-•+ 
i 
-. ! .  
i - 
Best Wishes  i i  
of  
Ambassador. Hotel  

Los Angeles, California 

A. Frank , and ·Ben Frank 
I 
~·-··-··--·-·---·-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-~·-··-··-··-··-··-··--·-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··--·-··-·+ +·-·~-·--··-·--··-··-··-··-··-·--··-·--·--··-ll·-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-1·-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-·l+
I . 
Congratulations .to · · 



NOTRE DAME 
on their Splendid Football Team 
THE WESTCHESTER COUNTRY CLUB 
RYE, NEW YORK . !i , . .II · 
+11-tt-aa-at-tl-at-tt-tt-••-••-••-•t-at-tt-tl-at-tt-••-••-•~-••-c•-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-t~t-t~t-••-••--:-••-ta-at-•t~a-•+ 
. I 
-[2]­
~·-·~-··-··-··-··~··-··-··-··-··-··~··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··~·~._•._,,_,,_,._,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,.~._.+
1 i 
. j 
Washington New York 
KE'NNY BROS., INC. 
I_. 



Contractors 
3o2 ;' 8 Dyckman St-., _N. Y. C. 

Francis P. Kenny · Thos. W. Kenny j 
. i 
. . . i 
e~e--··-··-··-··-••-a•-··-··-··-··--·---·--·-··-··-·•-t.•--·-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··.;.....··-··--·-··-··-··-··~··--·~··-··--·-·+ 
. -[ 3 ]­
+·-·--··-··-··-··-··-··-·•-•t-tt.-••-··-··-··-··-~~·-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-;·~··-··...:..··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··+i 
: i 
i i 
i i
I . 

REUABLEAUTOMOBILE INSURANCEASSOCIATION_ 
. 


Automobile Jnsuranc~ 
.,  
G. H. HEIDEMAN ..  
Local Agent  ·..  
Fire  Pu~lic Liability  
Theft  Prope~ty .Damage.  
Collision.  216-218 West Jefferson Blvd.·  

i / 
+··--·-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-·--··-··-··-··-··--,-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-~·-··-··-··-··-··-··-·+ 
+•__;_tn-e.-••-•a-••-••-•1!-tt-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-;•-••-••-••-••-••-••~••-•.::-la-ll-tl+ 
1 jUST LIKE A FINE CLUB 
Th~: l~catio.n -or the · 
;J • -,.. .. .• • 
.New ·Lawre.nce· is ..u.ne~c~lled·; ·.. · :·~gply.. . 18 miri.ute.S from tne : 
loop by e~p~ess serv·-. ·~ 
ice. It overlooks 'the 
lake ...the elevated, 
bus and surface lines . 
are but a minute or . two away. Surround­ing it is the famous Uptown shopping district. It is con· 
This beautiful $100,000 swimming pool is an venient to fine schools unusual and delightful feature enjoyed by and churches.· Thea·-. guests at the New. Lawrence~ .When you 
tr~s ·and other pi aces come home from a par~icU,larly hard day . . . o' f 'amusement a r'e .what joy to don your bathing suit ... hop into right 'clt·h~nd..There the ·elevator and in half a minute. plunge into is a .. coffee . shop 'in the cool sparkling depths of this tank . . . one 
·the· h~ilding;· . ' of Chicago's ·finest and largest. 
NEW LAWR·ENG.E HOTEL ! 1·2 and 3-Room Apartments-Hotel·Rooms Attractive Monthly ~ies-Daily_Rates $2."50 an~ Up ! . LAWRENCE AND KENMORE AVES (UPTOWN) CH~CAGO . 
+··-··-··-··-··__:.··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··--·-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-·+ 


-[4]­


_..: 
~·· .. 
. '­
'(­
--. .. 
G~ANO fORKS 
IN THE NORTHWEST 
it's the 
NORTHWEST-AIRWAYS OVER FIVE YEARS OF CONTINUOUS, ·SAFE, OPERATION 
N 
Phone or Write 
NOR.:f:HWEST AIRWAYS, Inc. 
5 
CHICAGO SAINT PAUL MINNEAPOLIS 2724.• Bank~rs Bldg. Holtrian Airport Wold-Chamberlain Field Franklin 8220 Rivervic\v 4500 Dupont 4881 

: .. · --.;: 

-[; ]-­
T·-·-----··-··-··-··-·---·-··-··-··-··-··-·--··-··-··~··-··-··-·--M·-··-··-··-··..:.......··-··~·-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-+
I 

I I We are proud, to. have constr-qcted
i 
j 

for progressive Notre Dame 
the following build~ngs 
Law Building Notre Dame Stadium Dillon Hall Dining Hall John F. Cushing Engineering Building Alumni Hall Edward N. Hurley Commerce Building 
\ 
Ralph Sollitt & Sons Construction Company· 
South Bend, Indiana Chicago, Illinois 
+-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-·--··-··-··-··-··~··-··-··_.:._··-··-··~··-··-··-··-··....:..··-··-··-··-··-··~··-··-··-··-··--·-·+ . 
. -. 
+·-·--··-··-·--·~-··-··-··-··-··-.. ·-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-~·..:..··-··-··-··-··~·-··-··-··-··-·--··-··-·--··-··-··+
! . . . i 
Leading Builders of...... . i 

Championship Squash Tennis and Squash ·Racquet Courts 
Architects and Builders Under the Supervision of
invited to consult us on plans. and specifications. 
"WALTER A ..·KINSELLA 
' 
Retired Undefeated World's Squash 'Tennis Champion 


The Brunswick--Balke--Collender Co. 
General Offices 623..633 So. Wabash Ave~ .... .... .... Chicago, Illinois 
+••-••-••-e•-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-•·-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-~~•-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••-••~••-••-••-••-a•-•+ 
-[6]­
))
<< 1 9 3 1 OFFicial Football Review 
ROCKNE MEMORIAL EDITION 

Staff 
Joseph S. Petritz -·-···-----·--------·----------------------·-----·----------------Editor,in,Chief 
Edmund G. Britz ----------·-------------------------------------------------Business Manager 
Joseph J. Kurth ........................................................................Co,Publisher 
Paul L. Host ----------------~---········-·········································-·····Co, Publisher 
H. Richard Mahony ······························--···;··························Co,Publisher 
\ 
Contributors 
, Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C. S. C. 
Jesse C. Harper Bert McGrane 
Heartly W. Anderson Edwin Moore, Jr. 
Capt. Tommy Yarr Christy Walsh 
Arch Ward George Trevor 
Warren Brown Harry MeNamara 
Francis Wallace Harry_ Cross 
Grantlan? Rice Irving Vaughan 
Pat Flanagan James E. Armstrong 
Lawrence Perry Gordon Mackay 
Paul D. Hoffman Robert E. Gorman 
Jack Elder Neil C. Hurley 
Ted Husing John A. Kiener 
Frank. E. Hering William Corr 
Feg Murray James McFeely 
George Kirksey George A. Belting 
Alan Gould .Walter Kennedy 
Werner Laufer ]. A. McElligott 
Bill Cunningham Edward Brennan 
-(7]­
I 
i 
l 
.I 
OFFICIAL FooTBALL R~VIEW-1931-Univcrsil.Y of Notre Dame 
Table of Contents 
« » 
.PAGES Cover Design by Joseph Lopker, Art Editor Notre Dame Juggler. Frontispiece-:-]oseph Lop~ er ............................ : ................................................................... : ......... ~ 10 Dedication ........................................................................................................................................11 Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C. S. C., .President ................................................. : ..... ; ............ 12-13 Jesse C. Harper, Director of Athletics ....................................................................................14-15' lleartly. W. Anderson, Senior Coach ....................................................................................... 16-17 Thomas Y arr, Captain ................................................................................................................1_8-19 · Patrons ........................................................................................................................................~-~---20 Varsity Personnel and Season's · Record ................................. · ................ : ................................. ; .... 21 Varsity Coaches ...........--~-..........................---~-------.......................---~---· ....................................... 2 2-2 3 Varsity Roster ............................................................................................................................ 24-2 5' · Capt. Thomas Yarr and Marchmont Schwart4 ············-'··························································--~-~--26 Joseph Kurth and Nordoff Hoffmann ............................................................................................ 27 . Alvin ·Culver and George Melinkovich .........~ ................................................................................ 28 Edwin· Kosky and Charles Jaskwhich ......................................................... : .................................. 29 ·Joseph Sheeketski. arid Richard .Mahony ................................................................................. : ...... 30 James Harris and ·Edward. Krause .......~---·····························'·························································31 
~~~~\i:r~s;ah;dan~mc~~f ~~~~Y~.:~::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~ 
Mike Koken and George Ko4ac ..........................................................................~ ...........................34 Norman Greeney and William Pierce ............................................................................................ 3 5' Thomas Gorman and Hugh· DeVore .............................................. : ......................................... : ..... 36 

!~;;;:~c~~~~~;!;~!a~~·xi~~h~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::i~ 
Harry Wunsch and Joseph Pivarnik ..............................................................................................40 
James Leonard and Norbert Christman ······'······················································-~---···············:.. : .. .41 
Joseph Foley and Curtis ·Millheam ............ ; .................................................................................. .42 
John Flynn a~d John Rogers ····································'··············.--···················: ....... ~---····.--·······-~-----43 
Reserve Football-Walter Kennedy ........................................... : .............................................. 44·45' The Interhall System-James McFeeley .............;.~~-~---····································:.:..................... 46:47 Freshman Football-George Belting ..................................................................... :: ................... 48-49 In Memory of a Viking, Drawing-Werner Lattfer· ................................ : ..................................... 5'0 A Viking Goes to Rest-George Trevor ............................................................. : ......................... .5'1 Rockne as I Knew -Him..:.._Arch Ward ......................................................... : .... : ........ · ............ 52-5'3 They'll Be Missing You, Rock!-Warren .Brown ............................................. : ...................... ; 4-5' 'i The ·Twinkle in Rockne's Eyes-Pat Flanagan ... : .......................................... , ............................... 5'6 Rockne· s. Spi~itual Side::-Lawrence Perry : ................ _ ...................................................................5'7 Rockne, The Indtis.trial Leader..:........Paul D.· Hoffman .............................~----·~----···-~·...................5'8~5'9 Rock~ne, .Ahini.nu~.-9f ,Notre Dame-:-]ames E. Armstrong : ........................................ : ................. ~60 Knu.te· Rock!1e.:...-:.Newspa:perin.an~Christy Walsh ......... : ....................................... : ............... : ........ 61 Rockne and ·Eastern Football~Bill Cunningham ......~ ........ : ....... : ................... : ...... : .... ~~ ..........:62-~3 Scenes From Rockne's Life ........................................................................ : ................................. ~.64 Rockne, The Radio Feature-'fed Husing .............................................. , ... : ........ : .............. ~ ..... : ... 65' A Memorial to Rockne-Fran~ E. Hering ................................... ; ................. : ....................... .'..66~67 Ca.rrying on the Rockne System-John Kiener ........................ : ..... ; ..................................... : ....... -68 
. 
Credo· of the Cash Customer-Robert Gorman ........................................................................... '.69 ·The' Punch Back of Notre Dame~N:eil Hurley ~--····················::: ............................................70~71 REVIEW All-Opponent Team-Joseph Petritz ...................................................................... 72-73 Th~ Managers-]. A. McElligott ······························-~---······:.....~ .............................................. 74-75' . After the U. S. C. Game-Bert McGrane ~and Edwin Moore,:']r . ...~ .............................................76 The Guiding Spirit, Drci.wing-Feg ·Murray· ... : ...... : .................................................................... : .. 77 Indiana· Game-Alan.. Gould ........ : ..... · .... : .......... · .......... : ....... ~·..............~:...................................... :78-79: 
~~:~l~wG~~~__9J:~;-~~~d,;;;:;la~~~;__ ::::::~:~:::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~-~~i · Pittsburgh Game-:-Irving Vaughan . : ....... ~----~-.:·-~······:··············-'··············································:.84-8 5' 
·~:~;:;b~:,~~~c\;;~egfi~.~i~~E~~L:::::::::::::::i:::::::~::~::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!~:! ~· 
So_uthern California.· Game-;-:-George Kir~sey ... : .. : ....... -~--~-;:___.-:.....................~ .............................92;9 3 · 

,.~~:~~J,i~~·~f'~~;;~,~i\~L~::~~;:::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::;::::=::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::~~~~~ 
·.Cadet-Richard· B~insley ~hcridan, ·In Menioriam ·:~ ..............-.:..;::·'~---·--: ..................................;.::.;;.98 
-·I 


OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Uni11ersil.Y of Notre Dame 
DEDICATION 
· THIS edition of the OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW· is· ·respectfully dedicated to the 
,. 
memory of KNUTE K~ _ROCKNE 

MEASURED beat I hear you1· tearns rnarch by, Dim ghosts of yesterday, whose wor]\ is done; And where young April's glow should llght the 
s~y 
'There is a shadow now across the sun. 0, spirit brighter than the flaming ship 'That d1·ove you downward on life's final trip. 
And now the curtain falls. Yes, other teams · .Upon rententbered fields ·will hold their sway; But will they bring the sante for lasting dream.s 'To span the sunset of an older day? What master brush will. paint for weary eyes After a flante rode down the western sl{ies? 
.-GRANTLAND RICE. 
-[ 11 ]­
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW..:_1931-Universil.Y of Noire Dame 
---, 
~ ! 
j 
. \ 


I· 
. I 
::.._ 
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil.Y of Notre Dame 
0?[}-F ONE spea~s of ci partiwlm· sport directly al1d exclusiv~ly, itis because that particular subject is under disc-ussion: . -0~1e would hardly expect in a FooT~ALL R:r;\'IEW a statement from the President ,of the University on. irnpo;·tant wor~ dol1e i1i.other fields, such·Cis.an ·epoch.-ma~ing dis" covery, say, in the field. of CJ1emistry. 'The point is ·that, due proportion .bei1ig ~ept mnong all the intere~ts and cc:>ncerns ;of ljfe .at Notre Dante, foot" ball has {ts assured place, and, happily, it is a place· of ho'1ior~ · 'The record of this _season ·ill~tst·rates and con" firms this _.judgnte?~t. 'Notwithstanding the· catq._s" t?~ophic bl9w that· too~ from its "the greatest co4ch . American foothan has 1{nown," and notwithstand.­ing the loss of playe1~s identified with two national championships in. SttCt;~ssive years, the coaches and the players -~f this yea~-~ave achieved such -distinc" tion as fully t_o repay m1d. j~tstify the confidence of: the student body ...z-vhoyn t~1ey 1·epresent and all friends of Notre Dan1e. -It is not lih,ely that this jJarticular sport· will e.ver lo·s~ its position of hm.1or in the range of ext1·~..curricu1ar activiti~s at No~re [)mne. -CHARLES L. O,DoNNELL, C.S.C. 
I n 1-­
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1931-Uni~ersil.Y of Nolre Dame 

Director of Athletic;s 
-( 14 ]­
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil.Y of Notre Dame 
®HEPAS'T season lias been characterized by the wonderful spirit of the players, their in.. te1·est in their wor1{, and their willingness to help one another. 'They were always on tin1-e fo1· prac.. tice, there .was no ill.. will because a man was de.. mated from the first team to the second or third teant. Everyone apparently was glad when a sec.. ond or thi1·d team man was good enough to come up and beat a first teant man out of his job. A great deal of this was due to ou·r Senior Coach, "Hun1(' Anderson, who has the same re.. ­sponsibilities as the head coach at other schools~ Never have I seen a squad li~e and respect a coach ntore than the 1931 team. did Anderson. And he was fortunate in having the assista1tce .of Junior -Coach Jad{ Chevigny, End Coach I1{e Voedisch~ and Center Coach John F1·ederic~. Our relations with all our opponents were de.-· lightful and not once has a visiting coach or teant ·had anything but praise for our men on .the teant and for the treatntent received at Notre Dame. 'This was due largely to the wo1·~ of o~tr efficient grottp of student managers, headed.· by John Grants, who was assisted by Joe E. McKean and Charles Weiss. 'They played their part in the success of the football teant and also .in-the enter.. tain1nent ·of visiting tednts. We can say truthfully that our treatntent from and associations with all of inn·. opponents wl1ont we played on their own fields was all t1ui.t we could. asl{. -}ESSE C. HARPER. 
-[ 15 ]­

OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil.Y of Notre Dame 
•.. 
·. 
·, 
-~ 
-. 
. ....,. . ... ... ·-~·· . r: 
~ 
.--. 
• '.I 
:...---
CoAcH HEARTLY W. (HuNK) ANDERSON 
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil.Y of N olre Dame 
~O'TRE DAME has just passed through · one of the hardest athletic seasons in. its history, but the CO"Operation of everyone con.. cerned made it a successful one. I want first of all to than~ the players for the great spirit and willingness they showed both. in practice and in games. ·_'They were always prompt at practice and never questioned .anything the coaches had to tell them. In games they fought theit hearts out wee~ after wee1{ li~e true sons of Notre Dame. 
'The university administration and the athletic 
_board has co.. operated at all /times with the coaches to ma~e things as easy as possible. Much credit for the season should go, too, to the other coaches who were of great help to me and who wor~ed untiringly. with nte. A word of thanl{s to the. student managers for their great efficiency and 
wor~. 
Finally, I want to thanh, the students, faculty, alu~ni, fans, and our opponents for the way they. received me in my first year as coach. I felt that 
.·I-'had the support of all Notre Dante supporters · ~~ all times and our re_lations with ou1· ·opponents we~e of the finest. 
-HEARTLY w. ANDERSON. 
-[ 17 ]­
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil_v of Notre Dame 

CAPTAIN THOMAS YARR 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil}) of Nolre Dame 
6't[}-AM GLAD of this opportunity to than~ the members of the 1931 team for their confidence in me in ma~ing me captain, and for the wonderful spirit of co,operation they showed. In the na·me of the team, I want to than~ . "Hun~" Anderson and the other c~aches for the lessons they taught us and for the way they gave themselves up to wor~ for the success of the team. The students showed their true manhood by standing behind the team, win or lose, every day of the year,-and the football men want me to than~ them for this support. Our defeat was the real test of their loyalty which had not been tested in the previous two years. And let me say that they too~ it li~e real Notre Dame me~. The best of luc~ to next year's team, and to the reserves, ai1d freshmen who helped the varsity --so greatly this year. .: _·THOMAS YARR. 
-[ 19 }­
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW..-193J.:._University of Notre Dame 

L. j. Adams Chicago, Illinois 
Paul H. Bonfield San Diego, Calif. William Bonfield · Oakland, Calif. 
A. j. Blaeser Chicago, Illinois Francis j. Bermingham Chicago, Illinois 
Claude F. Baker Chicago, Illinois 
T. R. Bergman San Francisco, Calif. John A. Byrnes New York, N. Y. 
Francis A. Bain New York, N. Y. 
0. j. Bjorn · New York, N. Y. \Villiam J. Bellinger Niagara Falls, N.-Y. --\Vm.. Bender, Jr. · South Bend, Indiana Dr. M~ \V. Brucker Chicago, Illinois John C. Burns . LaCrosse, \Visconsin James C. Carlyle Chicago, Illinois Leo j. Ch~lminiak South Bend, Indiana Dr. & Mrs. E. A. Corcoran Chicago, Illinois Madeleine G. Cullinan Chicago, Illinois 
Leonard R. Co~don Rockford, Illinois 
W. j. Corbett Chicago, Illinois Rev. M. j. Commins Chicago, Illinois Thomas A. Clark Chicago, Illinois Frank j. Callahan Fort Wayne, Indiana Rev. Walter D. Casey Hartford, Conn. Thomas j. Curtin Chicago, Illinois Thomas j. Cronin Binghamton, N. Y. Archie R. Campbell Flint, Michigan Robert Livingston Cahill Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Harold D. Crotty Chicago, Illinois 
Charles F. Cullen Newark, N. j. Herbert G. Callan Newark, N. j. Martin F. Donohue New York, N. Y. Dr. Paul Dineen New York, N. Y. George Dragus East Chicago, Illinois 
N. C. Duffy Perth Amboy, N. j. Patrick Enright Chicago, Illinois Edgar 0. Eck Detroit, Michiga·n George J. Ernst Chicago, Illinois Mrs. F. E. Fuegner Biloxi, Mississippi Mrs. Albert G. Frisbie Chicago, Illinois 
Feehan Council No. 749 K. of C. Chicago, Illinois 
C. F. Feltham 
Chic'ago, Illinois joseph H. Farley 
Chicago, Illinois Ramon S. Fernandez Gary, Indiana 
Mrs. j. L. Flanagan Thomas F. Little River Forest, Illinois Brooklyn, New York Roy M. Getschow James M. Lynch Chicago, Illinois Chicago, Illinois Robert A. Gallagher 
F. P. Link Chicago, Illinois 
Norwalk, Ohio 
Levy-Ward Grocer Co. Chicago, Illinois 
Ed. A. Garvey South Bend, Indiana 
Ward j. Loeffler Detroit, Michigan 
j. Russell Gnau joliet, Illinois 
Peter F. McShane Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Thos. L. Grace Chicago, Illinois 
Patrick F. McFarland New York, N. Y. 
jos. V. Gallagher joliet, Illinois 
A. A. McDonell Detroit, Michigan 
\Vm. F. Grogan St. -.Paul, Minnesota 
M. j. McCaughey Brooklyn, New York 
Anthony j. Heinlein Chicago, Illinois 
George N. McDonald \Vaterbury, Conn.
Christopher T. Hendrick 
New York, N. Y. Arthur· j. Hughes 
Capt. Ed McDonough Chicago, Illinois 
Bronx, New York Frank j. McNally
Paul G. Hoffman Chicago, Illinois
South Bend, Indiana Dr. j. E. McCambridge
Edward. F. Hoban Poughkeepsie, New YorkRockford, Illinois T. j. McGowan
Carl L. Hibberd South Bend, Indiana 
Haverstraw, New York Dr. Michael J. McMahon
F. \Valser Hawtin Chicago, Illinois 
Buffalo, New York Miss Marjorie Mendelson
George E. Hackner Detroit, Michigan
LaCrosse, Wisconsin Miss Doris Mendelson
joseph H. Higgins, Jr. 
Detroit, Michigan
Brooklyn, N. Y. Herbert A. Mendelson
Elzie Huot Detroit, Michigan
Kankakee, Illinois William F. Hughes 3rd 
Matthew A. Morrison Chicago, Illinois
Caldwell, N. j. john S·. Melsheimer
Gerald H. Hurst Chicago, Illinois
New York, N. Y. Ernest Martin
Wm. H. Hoeschler Goshen, IndianaLaCrosse, Wisconsin j. j. Mahony
j. Walter Hannon Indianapolis, Indiana Cleveland, Ohio 
John Mahoney Enid, Oklahomajoseph Hinchliffe 
Paterson, New jersey Mrs. Margaret Merwin
\Vm. Horlick, Jr. 
· Croton-on-Hudson, N. Y.
Racine, Wisc'Onsin Peter J. Jansen 
Miss julia A. Miller Mishawaka, Indiana 
New York, N. Y. 
Rev. Patrick Maloney, 0. F. M. South Bend, Indiana Bernard A. ·Kamm, M. D. 
Chicago, Illinois 
Edward j. Mahoney Michigan City, Indiana 
.R. L. Kerrigan jersey City, N. j. 
Benjamin Margolis New York, N. Y. 
Edward King 
New Rochelle, New York 
j. \V·. Maroney
F. L. Koppelberger, Jr. LaCrosse, Wisconsin Poughkeepsie, New York 
Edward M. Moloughney Chicago, Illinois Byron V. Kanaley . New York, N. Y. 
Dr. Joseph T. Mahoney Madison, \Visconsin Matthew G. Kurth Chicago, Illinois 
C. C. Mitchell Detroit, Michigan 
D. R. Kirby Chicago, Illinois 
j. V. Mitchell New York, N. Y. 
Edgar Kobak· Rockville Centre, N. Y. 
Virginia C. Masterson Bloomington, Illinois 
Art. P. Kane Chicago, Illinois 
Edward P. Newburg New York, N. Y. 
Francis P Kenny LaCrosse, Wisconsin 
john G. O'Malia Valley Stream, L. I., N. Y. 
john joseph Kenney 
Chicago, Illinois 
Thomas F. O'Hara Hornell, New York 
William C. Kinne Chicago, Illinois 
William P. O'Callaghan Lake Bluff, Illinois P. j. Keough . 
Chicago, Illinois Wm.· j. Keary M. W. O'Brien 
New York, N. Y. South Bend, Indiana 
john P. Kalina j. j. O'Brien Cleveland, Ohio South Bend, Indiana Ceo. W. Kuehne Thomas P. O'Donovan Chicago, Illinois Chicago, Illinois Edward Kaufman D. P. O'Keefe Chicago, Illinois Detroit, Michigan 
-[ 20]­
Oliver Hotel South Bend, Indiana 
•Frank j. O'Connor San Francisco, Calif. 
Ralph O'Hara· Chicago, Illinois 
j. I. Pavey South Bend, Indiana joe C. Peurrung Cincinnati, Ohio Arthur G. Peac·ock New York, N. Y. Frank A. Pavis New Yor~, N. Y. 
joseph P. Rolles Indianapolis, Indiana 
E. T. Rank Oak Park, Illinois 
John Pierre Roche Chicago, Illinois Rev. john j. Rengel Wilmette; Illinois joseph F. Raczynski South Bend, Indiana William C. Rabe Chicago,_ Illinois Chas. E. Riley Brooklyn, New York Ambrose Ryan . Chicago, Illinois 
Andrew Rockne Glendive, Montana Andrew Rudner Coaldale, Pa. Leonard Rosenbloom Chicago, Illinois 
L. R. Rochetto Chicago, Illinois 
P. C. Reilly Indianapolis, Indiana 
Kalman L. Reppa . East Chicago, Indiana 
j. B. Ryan Newark, New jersey George Renna New York, N. Y. George j. Revere Chicago, Illinois 
.G. j. Spanheimer Maywood, Illinois 
A. C. Sossong Chicago, Illinois 
Fred G. Snedden· Joliet, Illinois 
W. A. C. Smith Cleveland, Ohio Michael A. Sterback Bridgeport, Conn. Eugene Stann·ard South Bend, Indiana 
Edwin A. Stein Rochester, New York 
E. A. Schleuder South Bend, Indiana Barney Udolf New York, N. Y. Jno. j. Vogelpohl Cincinnati, Ohio Mrs. Dorothy Van Liew Flynn Crotin-on-Hudson, New York 
Godfrey j. \Vondrasek Chicago, Illinois 
S. A. Williams Milton, Indiana George C. Williams Chicago, Illinois Robert A. Wieland Chicago, Illinois Dr. john L. White Chicago, Illinois Joe Wolf & Son South Bend, Indiana Walter;s French Dry Cleaners South Bend, Indiana William A•. Walsh Yonkers, New York Michael Zimmer Chicago, Illinois 
Benedict F. Zimmer Chicago, Illinois 
·J. 
·OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931.-Universil.Y of Notre D.ame 




They Carried Onl 

SHEEKETSKI MELINKOVICH SCHWARTZ JASKWHICH DEVORE KURTH HOFFMANN CAPT. Y ARR HARRIS KRAUSE KOSKY 
1931 Record 
Notre Dame --------------------------------2 5; Indiana ------~-----------------------------------0 Notre Dame---··----------·----------------0; Northwestern ---·····----------------------0 Notre Dame --------------------------------63; Drake --------·······-··--------------------·-···· 0 Notre Dame ................................25; Pittsburgh ····---·······-··--··--------------·12 -Notre Dame ................................ 19; Carnegie Tech--------------······---·-----· 0 Notre Dame ------------·······---··---···-.49; Pennsylvania ---·--··-----~----------------·· 0 Notre Dame ---------------------·-··------·20; Navy -------·-·-·---··········----------···----0 Notre Dame ····------····--··-~--------···-14; Southern California .................... 16 Notre Dame--··-···············--------···· 0; Army ··········--··---------------··-············12 
1931 Coaching Staff 
Heartly W. Anderson ·-----------·-----------------------·-······----·······-·--senior Coach John E. Chevigny ······················-·························•···---~----·····-Junior Coach John .(Ike) Voedisch ···········------~---·······----···-----··············--Assistant Coach John Frederick ......................................................................Center Coach Art, Parisien ···············································-··-··-······----------Freshman ·Coach Clarence Kaplan --·-------············--·-·-···--·---···-············--···----Freshman Coach · John Carberry ...................... , ........................................... Freshman Coach Art Kline ................................ : .............................. , ........ ~.Freshman Coach 
Varsity Personnel 
Thomas Yarr, Captain 
Benjamin Alexander Stephen Banas Fred Barstow Ray Brancheau Frank Canale  Alvin Culver Hugh DeVore Jack Flynn Joseph Foley Hubert Gildea  James Harris Nordoff Hoffmann Paul Host Charles Jaskwhich Michael Koken  Joseph Kurth Frank LaBorne Bernard Leahy Ja'mes Leonard . . H. Richard Mahony  Regis MeNamara William Pierce Joseph Pivarnik John Rogers Joseph Sheeketski  
James Carmody Norbert Christman Carl Cronin  Thomas Gorman Norman Greeney . Reuben Grundeman  Edwin Kosky George Kozac Edward Krause ·  George Melinkovich Duke Millheam Emmett Murphy  Marchmont Schwart; Laurie Vejar .Harry Wunsch  
-( 21 ]­


=~---------­
,, ..,.. 
:·,·,. ... .. 
•. ,• t4 
t~ 
--\\ 
Rockne's Heritage 
~-------0 

'TJ
~ 
. -; > 
. '· 'TJ
-~·-:".:'_: 
·Vl n 
,h.~: 
-r 
'T] 
;· "
•. < > • _--__ :3.. > ---1·-,._,_.'.1·./: -_. ·_ <.~ .:_-~--< -­
0 
m.u.a.a. · 1, _, 0
....; ;\:.{. > r ttl ,,, r
\ ,j \ttlI 
. \!."~~--­
:=a 
:::rrl 
rrl 
~ 
I
t-.J 
t...J 
\.0 
T 
\,).) 
I 
;::,c:: 
~· 
(1) 
'"1 
~­~ 
-.0 
<: 
~ 
'"1 
(1) 
b 
Q 
3 
(1) 
JESSE C. HARPER JOHN FREDERICK JOHN T.·VOEDISCH HEARTLY W. ANDERSON JACK E. CHEVIGNY 
.J 
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEw-1931-UniversilJ) of Notre Dame 

Varsity Coaches 
JESSE C. HARPER 
Director of Athletics 
When Jesse Harper left Notre Dame in the spring of 1918 he thought he was through in an active way. with the university. He had spent five successful years as head coach of football, baseball, and basketball and he had· handled the athletic administration of the university commendably. , 
He had left young Knutc Rockne in charge of football and track. He looked around his little office for the last time and left for a ranch in Kansas. He :had turned out football teams that lost only five games in five years. His basketball and base· ball teams were not far behind. He had scheduled games in all sports in all sections of the country but the far west. 
He was content to look on at the rapid rise of his young pro· tege-his captain and star left end in 1913-now and then to 
advise him, always to take pride in the way his ·chosen successor was carrying on his work. 
Then last spring Knute Rockne crashed to his death and the situation was reversed. · Harper was the une man the university could turn to with confidence and ask to replace Rockne. He responded gladly, putting aside }lis duties as the president of the Live Stock Growers' association in Kansas. 
At Mr. Harper's request, let us say that he has had nothing to do with actual coaching-he has left this up to "Hunk" An· derson in football and to the other coaches of other sports. 
The university is glad to welcome Jesse Harper back to its fold. He has proved himself one of Notre Dame's greatest friends­may relations between him and the university in the future be as pleasant and as mutually satisfactory as in the past! 
HEARTLY W. (HUNK) ANDERSON 
Senior Football Coach · 
. "Rockne built for the future and his greatest heritage t<;> No· trc Dame was Coach 'Hunk' Anderson." These words, scanned in a newspaper last fall, tell more eloquently than. we can the story <;>f the successor to Rockne on the coaching field. 
One of Rockne's greatest lineman back in the days when the lamented Notre Dame leader was getting his first recognition, "Hunk" was content to move along in the background as Rockne's line coach for eight years. Once, in 1928, he left the university for two years and became head coach at St. Louis, Mo., university. But this was not to his liking and ~e returned in 1930 to mold the line of that year's national champions just as he had provided the Four Horsemen of 1924 with an ad· vance guard for their devastating rides. 
As a player, "Hunk" was quiet and modest. Asked to ad· dress a pep meeting, he blushed and muttered, 'Tll do the best we can." As an assistant coach, he was equally backward; that is, in everything but coaching. And now that he's the· head-man for Notre Dame, he's the same old "Hunker." Without know• ing it, he has inspired the men of the 1931 team to go out and fight as they fought for Rockne, to die if necessary. The boys on this team love Anderson-he talks their language, he shows them how to play buf doesn't ride them; he doesn't belie.ve much in pep talks and inspiration because his team is good enough to beat the average good team without artificial stimu· Ius. He's with the boys; they feel that they are close to him. 
His results? Six victories, a tic with the best team in the Western Conference under impossible.playing conditions and two • defeats to what were the best teams in the country the days they met Notre Dame-not bad for a starter, when you are playing. top·notch teams every Saturday of the year. 
"Hunk" will carry on for Rockne; he'll do it without any fire· works; he'11 do it thorough!y, and/you'll like him. He's that kind of a guy. 1 
JOHN E. CHEVIGNY 
Junior Coach 
Two plays sta~d out '·in. our mind among the greatest in foot· ball history. In one a green·jcrsied halfback is throwing himself bodily over a mass of struggling linemen and shouting, "There's one for the ·Gipper!" The other is this same player the fol· lowing week with his team behind him, 27 to 7, lunging furiously at a 200·pound fullback who is driving through a gaping hole in the beaten team's line. He hits this charging mas~ of muscle, grasps at his mud-covered. socks, and falls to the ground limp, exhausted. 
J 
In the first play, Jack Chevigny is leading Rockne's weakest but most courageous ·team-that of 19 28-to a 12 to 6 victory over a powerful Army team at New York. In .the second, this same Chevigny is showing himself to be as great in defeat as he :was in the previous week's victory when Carnegie Tech beat Notre Dame at Cartier Field. In both games, Chevigny played his heart out and came· back for more like the thoroughbred. 
Rockne liked him so well that in 19 29 he made him coach of his backfield. In ·three years, Chevigny has turned three all· American stars,. Carideo, Brill, and Schwartz;. Playing with the same three teams, Chevigny undoubtedly would have been all· American himself. This year, with characteristic thoroughness, he replaced all the lost backs of those two national championship campaigns of 1929 and 1930 and from nowhere: brought out a new set-or was it three sets?-of horsemen. · 
JOHN (IKE) VOEDISCH 
Assistant Coach 
It's hard to say anything· about "Ike" Voedisr.h because he DeVore, and if you can beat that combination of ends any• never says anything about himself. The quietest man on the where, we'll quit right here. "Ike" starred at end himself up to practice fie~d, he is equally quiet and likeable outside of coach· and including the 1927 season. He has been turning them out mg hours. This year he turned out Kosky, Host, Mahony and nearly as good as he was ever since. 
JOHN FREDERICK 
Center Coach 
Johnny Frederick got his first look at Notre Dame football as one of Notre Dame's greatest, although more or less unsung, center on the freshman squad m 1924 when the Four Horsemen varsity centers. This year he brought Tom Gorman and Ben used to condescend now and then to run through the frosh in Alexander along at a fast clip. They'll be varsity next year scrimmage. The next two years he played under all-American and we'll leave it up to you then whether or not Frederick knows 
Arthur (Bud) Boeringer. In 1927, he developed himself into his line play. 
-[ 23 ]­
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1931-Univcrsity of N otrc Dame 
Varsity Roster 
Years 
On 
Name Position Home Town Prep School Aue Wt. Ht. Squad 
Acers, Julian ......................1. H ........ ~ .... Chicago, Ill ....................• Campion ............................21 175 5:11 0 Alexander, Benjamin .......... C.............San Marino, Cal.. ........... S. Pasadena High .............. 22 185 6: 1 Aug, George ........................ C.............Cincinnati, Ohio .......... ...Elder ....................... : .......... 20 185 6:1 0 Banas, Steve ........................ F. B ............. East Chicago, Ind........... Cath. Cent. Hammond ...... 22 188 5:11 Barstow, Fred .................... R. T ............. Menominee, Mich.........Menominee High ..............19 207 6:2 1 Begley, John ..... · ................. R. E ............. Cleveland, Ohio .............. Holy Name ......................20 185 6: 0 Beirne, Roger ....................1. E ............. Fairfield, Conn ............... Peddie ..............................20 175 6:1 0 Blake, Marion ......................F. B ............. Tulsa, Okla ................... Holy Family ....................20 186 5:11 0 Boland, Raymond .............. Q. B ............. Chicago, Ill. ·················::.De LaSalle ........................20 160 5:7 0 Bolger, Charles ..................1. E ............ ·.Chicago, Ill ..................... De LaSalle· ........................20 170 6:1 0 Bosco, James ...................... Q. B ............. Maywood, Ill.................Proviso High ..................~.22 158 5:7 0 Brancheau, Ray ................ R. H ............. Monroe, Mich ................. Monroe High ..................21 180 5:10 Burke, Vince ...................... Q. B ............. Pittsburgh, Pa ................. Sacred Heart High ............ 19 152 5:9 0 Canale, Frank ....................L. E ............. Memphis, Tenn............... Catholic High ..................20 190 6: 0 Carmody, James ................ R. T ............. Chicago, Ill .................... .Mt. Carmel ........................21 210 6:1 1 Cavanaugh, Vincent .......... R. G ............. Chicago, Ill ................ _ ... St. Ignatius ......................21 175 5:10 0 Chapman, Richard ............1. G ............. Los Angeles, Cal.. ........... Los Angeles High .............. 20 175 5:8 0 Christman, Norb .............. Q. B ............. Green Bay, Wis.............E. Green Bay ....................21 172 5:9 2 Cousino, Bernard .............. R. T ............. Toledo, Ohio ..................:St._ John's ..........................21 175 6: 0 Cronin, Carl ...................... R. H ............. Chicago, Ill ..................... St. Rita's ..................:~......22 1)7 5:7 3 Culver, Alvin ............... _ ... L. T ............. Wilmette, Ill. .................. St. Thos., St. Paul.. .......... 23 212 6:2 3 Curry, Wally .................... Q. B ............. Hastings, Nebr............... Hastings High ..................20 1)0 5:10 0 DeVore, Hugh .................. R. E ...... , ...... Bloomfield, N. J ............. St. Benedict's · .................... 20 180 6: 1 Donovan, Robert .:\.......... Q. B ............. New York City ................ Fordham Prep ..................20 160 5:8 0 Finneran, Gerald .............. R. E ............. New Yor~ City ................ George Washington ..........21 190 6:3 0 Flynn, Jack ........................R. T ............. Quincy, Ill. .................... Quincy High ....................19 . 196 6: Foley, Joe ..........................Q. B ............. Jacksonville, Fla.............Robert E. Lee .................... 21 158 5:7 1 Franklin, Randolph ............ R. E ............. Youngstown, Ohio ........ South High ......................21 174 5:11 0 Gildea, Hubert ..................L. E ............. New Haven, Conn.........Milford & Hillhouse .......... 20 188 6:1 Gleeson, Edw. M ................. L. G ............. Chicago, Ill ..................... St. Mel's ......................... : .. 20 186 6:1 1 Gorman, Tom ...................~ C.............Chicago, Ill ..................... St. Phillip~s ......... : ............ 21 187 6: 1 Greeney, Norman ..............1. G ............. Cleveland, Ohio ·········--John Marshall ..................22 185 5:11 2 Grundeman, Reuben .......... F. B ............. Merrill, Wis ................... Merrill High ....................20 
183 5:11 Hafron, Charles-·········-·····R. E ........ ~ .... South Bend, Ind ............. South Beh.d High ........... ~ ..21 '165 5:11 
0 Halpin, Robert .................... C.............New Haven, Conn ......... New Haven High .............. 20 178 6: 0 Harris, James ....................1. G ............. Bellaire, . Ohio ................ Linsley (Bellaire} ............22: 187 5:9 2 Hoffmann, Frank Nordy .... R. G ............. Seattle, Wash ............... _st. Martin's ......................21 
204 6:2 2 Host, Paul ..........................1. E.: ........... LaCrosse, Wis...............LaCrosse High· ................21 
175 5:11 2 Jaskwhich, Charles ............ Q. B ............. Kenosha, Wis.............. Kenosha High ..................20 
174 5:11 2 Jehle, Frank ............. : .......... 1. T ............ Detroit, Mich .................. Western High ..................20 
195 6:1 0 Johnson, H;uold ................ R. H ............. Kewanee, Ill ................... Kewanee High .............~ ....20 175 5:9 0 Kennedy, Ken .................... R. T ............. Chicago, Ill. .................... Papillion (Neb.) High ...... 19 188 6:1 0 Kieltyka, Steve ..................L. T ............. Yonkers, N. Y.............. Yonkers High ........ : ......... 19 
200 6: '0 Koken, Mike .........._. ...........1. H ............. Youngstown, Ohio ........ South High ......................22 
170 5:9 2 Kosky, Edwin .....................L. E ....... ~ ..... Yonkers, N. Y .............. Yonkers High ..................21 
185 6: 2 Kozak, George .................... R. T ............. Cleveland,. Ohio ........... Holy Name High .............. 22 
·198 ·. 6:2 Krause, Ed ......................... 1. T ............. Chicago, Ill ..................... De LaSalle ........................ 19 
210 6:3 Krusiec, E, F ....................... F. B ............. Chicago, Ill. .................... De LaSalle .....~..................20 
180 5:8 0 
-[ 24 ]­
· OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil.Y of Nolre Dame 


Varsity Roster 
Years 
011 
Name Position Home Town Pre]J School Aye · Wt. Ht. Squad 
Kurth, Joe .......... : ............... R. T ............. Los Angeles, Cal. .........• Madison, Wis. High .......... 21 200 6:1 2 LaBorne, Frank ................L. H ............. Brooklyn, N. Y ................ Brooklyn Prep ..................21 163 5:10 1 Leahy, Bernie .....~ .............. R. H ............. Chicago, Ill ..................... St. Mel's .......................... 22 175 5:10 3 Lcding, Mike ......................L. T ............. South Bend, Ind............• South Bend High .............. 21 180 6:1 0 Loughery, Charles ............~.L. E ............. Brooklyn, N. Y ............... Brooklyn Prep ..................21 190 6:2 0 Leonard, James .................. F. B ............. Pcdricktown, N. ]......... St. Joseph's ...................... 20 190 6: 1 Lynch, John ...................... R. G ............. Bcnton Harbor, Mich ..... St. John's ..........................19 200 6:2 0 Mahaffey, Tom ..................L. G ............ .Indianapolis, Ind..: ........ Cathedral High ................21 170 5:9 0 Mahony, Dick .................... R. E ............. Clcvcland, Ohio ............ Cathedral Latin ................ 20 175 5:10 2 Malan, John ......................Q. B ............. Hudson Falls, N. Y ......... Hudson Falls High ............ 20 160 5:10 0 Mariani, H ......................... L T ............. Pearl River, N. Y ........... Pearl River High .............. 20 193 5:11 o· Mclinkovich, George ..........F. B ............. Tooclc, Utah .................. Tooele High .................... 20 180 5:11 1 Millhcam, Duke ................ R. H ............. Bcloit, Wis..................... Beloit High ...................... 20 156 5:7 1 Mueller, Arthur ................ R. G ............. Kew Gardens, L. !......... 21 175. 5:10 0 Murphy, Emmett ..............Q. B ............. Duluth, Minn.................De LaSalle, K. C., Mo..... 22 153 5:8 2 McCabe, Joseph ................Q. B ............. N. Attleboro, Mass.., ...... N. Attleboro High ............ 21 160 5:8 0 McCarthy, Edward ............L. E ............. Chicago, Ill ..................... Loyola ..............................19 15'8 5':11 0 McClurg, John .................~F. B ............. Providcnce, R. !.. ........... Pawtucket High .............. 20 160 5:8 b McGuff, AI ........................Q. B ............. Chicago, Ill ..................... St. Mel's .......................... 20 170 5:10 0 McKeever, Ed .................... R. H ............. Spoffard, Tex.................St. Edward's .................... 20 165' 5':10 0 McNamara, Regis .............. R. T ............. Pittsburgh, Pa...............Binghampton, N.Y. H. S .. 23 190 6:1 3 Nichols, Samuel ................ F. B ............. Ya2;oo City, Miss ............. Ya2:oo High ....................21 188 5:10 0 Paulson, Howard .......... : ... L. G ............. South Bend, Ind............~South Bend High .............. 20 175' 5:10 0 Pierce, Bill ........................ R. G ............. Shcrman, Tex.................Sherman High .................. 22 185' 5':8 2 Pivarnik, Joe ......................L. G ............. Bridgcport, Conn...........Harding High .................. 19 195' 5':9 1 Rascher, Norb .................. R. E ............. Cedar Lake, Wis...........St. Viator ........................ 19 185' 6:1 0 Reuland, Ray .................... R. E ............. Reedsburg, Wis.............Reedsburg High .~ ............21 182 6:2 0 Roberts, Earl ......................L. E ............. St. Louis, Mo................• University High .............. 22 175' 6:1 0 Robinson, John .................. C.............Huntington, N. Y ........... Georgetown Prep ............ 18 195 6:3 0 Rogers, John ...................... C.............Alexis, Ill ....................... Alexis High ......................21 175' 5:8 2 Rohrs, George .................... R. E ............. New York City ................ Fordham Prep ............... : .. 20 168 5:10 0 Ryan, Jack .......................... C.............Chicago, Ill ..................... St. Leo's ............................ 19 185' 6: 0 Schrenker, Paul ................L. G ............. Elwood, Ind...................Elwood High .................... 19 · 185' 5':11 0 Schumacher, AI ................L. H ............. Shawano, Wis...............Shawano High ..................21 171 6: 0 Shceketski, Joe ............. , .... R. H ............. Shadysidc, Ohio ............ Shadyside High ................21 172 5:9 2 Schwart2;, Marchmont ... : .... L. H ............. Bay St. Louis, Miss ......... St. Stanislaus .................... 22 170 5':11 3 Smith, Albert .................... R. H ............ .Indianapolis, Ind. . ......... Cathedral High ................ 20 170 5':11: 0 Streb, Robert ....................Q. B ............. Canton, Ohio ................ Canton High ...................:22 176 5':9 0 Tobin, John ...................... R. H ............. Jancsville, Wis...............Janesville High ..................21 180 5':9 0 Van Rooy, William ......... ••R. G ............. Clcveland, Ohio ............ Cathedral Latin ................21 195' 5' :10
7 0 Vejar, Lauric ...~ ................Q. B ............. Hollywood, Cal. .............. Hollywood High ..............21 168 5':7 V cttcl, Louis .................... R. H ............. Ashtabula, Ohio .............. Ashtabula High ..... , .......... 19 175' 5': 10 0 Vyzral, Edward ................ R. T ............. Chicago, Ill. .................... Lindblom ..........................21 219 6:4 1 Weidner, Fred .................. R. G ............. La Porte, Ind. ···········-···La Porte High ................ :.20 167 5': 10 0 Whelan, Vincent .............. C........~ .... Grantwood, N. J ............. St. Benedict's ....................21 175' 5:8 0 Witucki, Bernard ··········~··· C......~ ...... South Bend, Ind.............So~th Bend High ....... : ...... 20 175 5':11 0 Wunsch, Harry ....... ; .......... L. G ............. South Bend, Ind............. South Bend High .......... : ... 20 200 5':11 Yarr, Tommy (Capt.) ........ C.............Dabob, Wash.................Chimacum Prep ................ 22 197 5':11 ~ Zoss, Oscar ........................ C.............South Bend, Ind............. South. Bend High .............. 20 175' 5:11 0 
-[ 25 ]­


,.... 
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEw-1931-Universil.Y of Notre Dame. 
CAPT. TOMMY YARR 
Center All,American=!: 
Combining all the fire of a Dublin,born father and the stolidity of an Indian,blooded mother with the courage of both, Capt. Tommy Yarr proved himself· during the 1931 season worthy of a niche in the hall of fame reserved for Notre Dame football captains. 
After playing third string ball in 1929 and making a wild but not so costly pass against Northwestern that year, Tommy gathered him, self together and played the most brilliant defensive ball of any man on the squad the next y.ear when he went up to the varsity. 
As captain, he was given a chance to bring out his ability as a leader. Never did he rise to greater heights than in Notre Dame's two hardest games. When Northwestern held the Fighting Irish to 
. a scoreless tie in the mire of Soldier field, Tommy played perfect ball, despite the fact that his left hand was in cast, broken in practice that week, and a finger in his right hand was cut to the bone. Every pass he made was perfectly timed and placed-five of them were to Marchy Schwartz kicking from behind his own goal with a heavy wet ball and 75,000 pairs of eyes watching for him to slip. On defense he was equally brilliant. ' 
Against Southern California, in the heart,breaking last quarter when the mighty Trojan attack unleashed. itself, Tommy never lost heart and he didn't let his teammates lose their spirit. When South, ern California led Notre Dame, 16 to 14, with a minute to play, Tommy was still in there, giving everything he had, as he had been taught to give by great Notre Dame captains before him. 
They don't make men like Tommy every day. Let him know No, tre Dame apprec_iates hil)l and loves him. He woq't be forgotten as long as people meet to talk football and to reminisce. 
MARCHMONT SCHWARTZ 
Left Halfbacl{ All,Americant 
Class! This word, possibly not the best possible choice·, sums up better than any other we know, the most brilliant of many brilliant left halfbacks in Notre Dame history. When Rockne told his teams to "Be classy!,, he wanted them to be like Marchy Schwartz has been in his three years as a Notre Da~e player. 
He wanted them to do things well, to know from experience and hard work what they were trying to do, to fight like fury, in short, not _to "go out and die, but to go out and win!." And this, without show, ing a great deal of emotion, too much confidence, or a "hero complex." 
After going through the 1930 season as the man directly responsible for nearly all of Notre Dame's victories, Schwartz returned during the past season to rise to new heights. In every hard game, he came through like a master. He averaged five yards a trip against Northwestern and averaged 46 yards on his punts with a wet, heavy, slippery ball. 
His two passes to Melinkovich and Jaskwhich put the Pitt game away before the half; he ran 59 yards against Carnegie Tech to score; he aver, aged five yards against Southern California and kicked and passed like a demon all afternoon because there was no one to replace him; he ran 16 yards to s~ore . against Navy and then threw two passes for other touchdowns. 
He was named all, American unanimously and many writers called him the outstanding gridiron star of the year. He was the perfect football player in every game. He was just as perfect a gentleman on and off the field. 
Marchy is through with football now, although· he will return to Notre Dame next year to complete his Law course. He is another whose name· will go down in a brilliant history of Fighting Irish football men: 
* Associated Press Selections. t Unanimous. 
-[ 26]­


OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil.Y of N olre Dame 
JOSEPH KURTH 
Right 'Tacl{le All·Americim* Few Notre Dame football players make the long jump from the fresh· 
man team to the varsity squad· of three teams in one season; fewer still 
4:t.:;.
go to the first team. Only one has ever played as a sophomore with a national championship Irish eleven. · ~­He is Joe Kurth, the .strapping right tackle whom Rockne selected to 
0
• . 1
replace Dick Donoghue in the opening game of 1930 when Donoghue 
·--~ .. 
was injured. Rockne seldom had to make a second guess and he was -· 
dead right from the start in Joe's case-Joe _.saw to that. After one brilliant season, Kurth came back during 1931 to establish himself as the first all· American tackle in Notre D.ame history in a sys· tern that does not giye the tackle much chance to play in the open. Kurth was great enough, however, both in courage and ability, to per· form the ordinary duties perfectly and take on additional burdens. He played longer than any one else in the Northwestern game but 
never got credit because he wore a different jersey number the second 
half. He opposed Pitt against doctors' orders when injured because the second and third string men were not able to play; he spent three days of the next week on a hospital cot and was back the following Saturday. to carry on against Carnegie. ·Against Southern California, though, he was superb. Not a yard .{;..?;~· was gained .th~ough him; he .blocked Baker's fir?t a~tempted coversion, :R~:F:_;;·~::.o.:-\o.d.~!"'"'..l:·:--.·\·o:."-~.~;..-.:·~:..·.· fell on Mus1ck s fumble on h1s own three·yard lme m the first quarter, .::;::-}:;..lj.· ·.. made the large n:ajority of tackles on p~nts, and on offense made the~:~·): ~~<.(·~f;~£~2~~~:~~~~~fiTf~~~1f~¥:~~~~~~~··:~
holes through whtch Schwartz made all h1s longer runs. ~'-' If this isn't all· American performance, what is? Kurth has another year to play and you can put down one 1932 star for the books right now. 
FRANK NORDY HOFFMANN 
Right Guard All·Americant 
This is probably the only publication in the country to spell Nordy Hoffmann's name with both "n's," but we asked him· and it's right. He's all German-with a spark of Irish picked up by association. 
Frank Merriwell came to Notre Dame in the fall of 1928 in the form of a robust blond lad of some 200 pounds, who measured something like six feet two inches in height.. He came under a different name but it was Frank Merriwell, all right. 
He hadn't played football at St. Martin's of Seattle but he liked to watch the game and went out as a freshman manager. When track season came along; he was told to toss the weight back to the shot-putters. He tossed it so far that Coach John Nicholson spotted him and measured him for a suit. He was pretty good-he was ru11:ner·up for the state championship the next year. As a track ·man, he met a lad named Marty Brill, a right halfback, who told him to try out for the team. 
He did; he made the third team at right ·tackle and came back the next . year to make the third team again under Joe Kurth and Art McManmon, who had got the juinp on him by playing in high school. 
Pressed for material, "Hunk" Anderson shifted him to right guard last fall and he rose to the heights of stardom, even getting considerable all· American mention as a real varsity player. 
Aggressive, fast, brainy, and fortitudinous, he played brilliant all-around ball in every game, although badly injured in the Southern California and Army contests. This wasn't revealed at the time because he could take no chances on receiving further injuries. 
Now he has finished his career, a shining example of what hard work will do, an inspiration to a host of not•so·good high school stars, and a hale fellow if there ever was one. 
*New York Sun, " 1orld-Telegram, and Post. t Associated Press Selections. 
-[ 27]­



OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Vniversil.Y of Noire Dame 
ALVIN CULVER 
Left Tac~le 
Long perhaps after his name is forgotten-if-it is ever forgotten -people will talk about the big tackle at Notre Dame, who for almost three complete seasons wore the same old bent, short· rimmed, brown felt hat. 
It wasn't an ordinary hat. It was Big AI Culver's Victory Hat and he said, 'Tll wear it until we get bumped." No fault of Culver's-nor anyone else's on the Notre Dame team-was it that Notre Dame did "get bumped" in the last two games of its three greatest seasons. 
Known around the carppus as a quiet, philosophical sort of fellow who liked books more than anything else, Al was called in 1930 the most "under-rated player of the season." Not the fiery type who runs up and down the scrimmage line shouting and ex• horting his mates to greater efforts, he was just another lineman to most of the public. He couldn't even pose naturally for an action picture. 
He was content to do his job and let someone else be the _spark plug of the line. And he did his job. You don't play with a No­tre Dame team for two years under Rockne and another under "Hunk" Anderson unless you are doing your job .. Al could stop a power play, he could block a kick, break up a pass, block and tackle with the force of a ram-anything yoU: asked for, except make a hero of himself. 
Injuries last fall slowed him and for a while he lost his position to· another man. But with all his Scotch· Irish tenacity he hung in there, and by the end of the season was back up with the var· sity where he belonged. His loss to next year's team and to the campus will be sorely felt-and this is not just a pla_titude. 
GEORGE MELINKOVICH 
Fullbac~ 
Out of the West rode George Melinkovich one day in the fall of 1930. We were going to say he pulled up rein at Notre Dame, but in the interests of truth, we'll admit he stepped from a Pullman platform. He wasn't wearing chaps and spurs, but a neatly pressed suit of late mode with all the trimmings. He didn't carry his clothes wrapped in a bandana at the end of a stick, but had a few of them in a neat leather suitcase and the rest in his wardrobe trunk. 
In fact, he made a mighty good appearance for a far westerner, who for the benefit of our eastern trade is supposed to be far cruder than even the middle westerner. His frank eyes had a. friendly twinkle in them. This was deceiving to the Notre Dame national championship varsity of 19.30 because George immediately made good as a left halfback with the freshman team and he had no scru· ples when it came to running the champions ragged in scrimmage. 
Last spring, he was among the 300 candidates out for spring football. He was among ·them for a· while but in two weeks he was 'way ahead of them. With Schwartz and Koken back and with LaBorne, -Banas, and Lukats available at left half, it looked like George might never get a chance to strut the stuff which won him a Frank Hering medal for pass receiving and made him runner up for passing and blocking proficiency. Then the fullback jinx went into action and took Banas and Lukats, who had been shifted to that position. 
George was shifted over and in two weeks won his way to the varsity. Well that he did, for Banas was hurt the day George started with the regulars and he stayed in there until Banas was able to return three weeks later. Then he _got hurt in the Navy game, ending his 1930 career. He has two.. more years to go and we're asking you to paste this in your respective hats-here's all­American talent~ Can he smack a line! If you didn't notice last year, watch him in the next two seasons. 
-[ 28 }-· 


OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universit:y of N olre Dame 
EDWIN KOSKY 
Left End All·Western 
One distinction Ed Kosky will have held by the end of next 
season, barring injuries, famine, anc~ pestilence, will be that of 
playing varsity end for three consecutive years: He now has 
two to his credit and was ranked all·Western by nearly all the 
experts last fall. Another distinction to his credit will be that he is in that :ii great class of under-rated players. Much as we wish to avoid 
':.,,
any approach to an alibi for the Southern California game-for none is needed-if little Duke Millheam had been able to get 
' ;~ 
off that pass on the next to last play, Notre Dame would have 
...-l
been the victor. Kosky, if you were not there or at your radio, 
was a good 25' yards from the nearest Trojan at the time the· 
pass was due to sail-and .he never misses if they're in the same 
county. Kosky came into his own last year with the great line of 1930, 
called by experts the greatest in Notre Dame history with the 
possible exception of last fall's. He had dribbled around a sea· ,~v:-.~.r,~:s~ 
son with the reserves and was not looked upon with any great 
degree of hope for the future. He and Hunk Anderson got 
together, though, in the spring of 1930 and, with the capable 
tutelage of Ike Voedisch, end coach, .Ed's great potentialities 
began to be realized. Never a grandstand star, Kosky is typical of the Notre Dame lineman; cool, composed, and efficient. Watch him next year! 
CHARLES JASKWHICH 
~uarterbacl( 
Last year Charlie Jaskwhich, who made various plain and fancy records in high school, was groomed by none other than Knute Rockne as the successor to the great Frank Carideo. · 
Campus ""experts" .and down town coaches were of the opinion that for once Rockne had erred. After all, he was only human for all his genius. True eno.ugh, Jaskwhich came to Notre Dame after winning all-state honors in foot· ball and basketball and establishing a state pole vault mark which still stands at Kenosha, Wis., high. He had been captain in these three sports and was sup· posed to be, in the vernacular of the campus, ""quite the hot shot., 
But somehow, he seemed to lack tl~e stuff needed for college football. It wasn't courage, maybe it was confidence, it wasn't brains for he was and is an honor student, it inight have been experience. At any rate, he dropped a couple of punts and got off a bad kick,and when somebody didn't catch a. pass when he was supposed to, Jaskwhich was given credit for a bone-head play. 
Now, as you've guessed, it's all different. For a while a couple of other lads gave. Charlie a battle for his position. Then he put on steam and pulled away so fast it made them dizzy. He was established as a first string man in the Pitt game, the fourth· of the season, and never after was there any doubt as to his status. 
He handled his punts with the coolness of a movie star before a news camera; his own punts drilled down the field 5'0 and 60 yards at a crack, he would call his own number and then go out and snag a pass that made you strain away from your seat; he seldom missed a point after touchdown, and his kickoffs went sailing into the end zone more often than not. We'll take the coaches' word for it that his blocking was on a par with his more open play, and the way he took that club down the field for ""them touchdowns," as Roundy, the sage of Madison, would say it, vouched for his generalsh_ip. We like to remem· ber the Pitt game as the unfoldi1~g of a new success story. Next installment, 1932. 
-[29 ]­




OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEw-1931-Umversil.Y of Nolre Dame . 
JOSEPH SHEEKETSKI Right Halfbac~ ' 
For one man to replace three such bearcats as Marty Brill, "Bucky" O'Connor, and Clarence Kaplan all in one season and without batting an eyelash, is slightly breath-taking. But Joe Sheeketski, the guy Rockne was always asking to give a yowel to George. Vlk~ has just done it and without 
leaving any doubt that he has done it well. 
Joe played only a few minutes in 1930 against" Navy, Pitt, and Penn after Messrs. Carideo, Schwartz, Mullins, and Brill had seen that the game was safely on ice. Then he showed mai'nly as a snake-hipped open 
field runner. But the right halfback for Notre Dame is and must be a blocker. So Notre Dame was supposed to be weak there this year. 
We don't know much about a reverse body block, but one day last spring we watched Jack Chevigny, backfield coach, drilling a b~.mch of prospective backfield -greats. Sheeketski was the model and he was. showing about 50 other fellows the fine points of how the reverse body block should be exe­cuted. That was enough; if he was that good, we could go over and worry 
about the ends or so~ething. . . And if Joe can't block and tackle quite as destructively as Brill, it's be­cause he is not as heavy, but he can run faster. If he can't run as fast as O'Connor, he's trickier. And if he's not as slippery as Kaplan, he's a better blocker. In short, he combines the desirable traits of all. three. He scampered through a. surprised Indiana team in the opening game, 70 yards for a touchdown, the first of the season for Notre Dame. Thereafter he made several other point-scoring excursions over shorter distances. And we'll leave it up to Marchy Schwartz how far he would have gone at right end if Joe hadn't been in there driving out those ends. He played himself to exhaustion against U. S. C. arid then returned to· the lineup for more. Joe has another season in which to rise to still greater heights. 
RICHARD MAHONY 
Right End 
Like his colleague on this same page, Dick Mahony had lots of shoes to fill at the beginning of the past season. Capt. Tom Copley, all-Western star wingman, and George Vlk of the 1930 team were both gone when "Hunk" Anderson looked at the remnants of his 

squad not lost by graduation. 
A couple of his best freshman players were lost. A right guard did 
not return to school, Metzger was graduated, a right tackle got his 
diploma and three right halfbacks and fullbacks were gone. It looked 
like the whole right side of the Notre Dame team would be weak. 
The results of the season show that you can't go by what you read 
in the newspapers at the beginning of the season. Especially with 
men like Dick Mahony lying around ready to tackle any job-or 
any fullback of any size traveling at a given speed in any ball game. 
Dick is one of those care-free boys who likes to throw himself head­
long into a flying wedge on a kickoff, who labors under the impres­
sion that he is always in swimming and makes beautiful div~s into 
the areas of most concentrated action time after time. 
With utter disregard for the welfare of his neck, Mahony stepped · into Tom Conley's place, got rid of the responsibility with a shrug of his shoulders, and said, "When do we start the slaughter?" Lest you might think his only stock in trade is a fighting Irish spirit, a bloody eye, and a good physique, let us put you right. 
If you ever watched him break up a la:teral pass combination on which some poor coach stayed awake nights figuring, or if you ever saw an opposing back run for the sidelines when he saw his inter­ferers dive one by one at the twinkling Mahony feet and get left, you'll get the idea. Dick has everything it takes-and he uses every­thing he has. Right end is one position Coach "Hunker" won't worry about next year; we don't think he was worrying abut it last spring, either. 
--[ 30 )­



OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEw-1931-Universil.Y of Notre Dame 
JAMES HARRIS 
Left Guard 
The main difference between ·lightni.ng and. Jim Harris is that lightning doesn't strike the same place twice, except in a few remote instances which have been covered by Mr. Ripley. 
He combines the finer qualities of a knife and a pile driver. How he gets those stumpy legs of his to work so fast, we can't tell you. How he gets those 185 pounds of bone· and muscle through two shoulder-to-shoulder opposing linemen, we can't understand, either. But he does it and does it fast enough more often than not to nail in his tracks the fleetest of halfbacks. 
Jim got his early training at Linsley Institute of Wheeling, 
W. Va., where he was captain, all-city, all-state and whatever else there was to be. His presence at Notre Dame is best accounted for perhaps by· the fact that his home is in Bellaire, Ohio, a No­tre Dame hotbed which produced 'Johnny Niemiec and "'Bull" Poliski of the 1927 team. Joe Sheeketski, from Shadyside, Ohio, two miles out of Bellaire, was also making good at Notre Dame with the freshmen when Jim finished his high school career. 
He and Norm Greeney of Cleveland-will someone please stop· us before the governc;:>r of Ohio presents us with something­fought it our last year with the shock troops under Tom Kassis. This year when Greeney was injured against Carnegie, the duel 



ended in .favor of Harris, at least for the season. There was nothing at that time to choose between them and we'll leave it to the coaches whether there is next year when both come back. 

EDWARD KRAUSE .Left 'Tac~1e After the Notre Dame-Southern California game last year at Los Angeles, sport critics who witnessed the fracas were loud in their praises of the Irish left tackle, AI Culver. This fall came, footballs were inflated, and another great season began. Before long Culver found himself with his hands full; and the .difficulty was not opposing linemen, but a young sophomore on his own team who persisted in ousting Al from his berth. That young gentleman was Ed Krause. Time after time his name, in place of Culyer's, appeared on the first string lineup. It seemed an inconceivable thing to those who the previous year had judged Culver the last word in tackles. But there was the incon­testable fact staring them in the face. "'What a man,, they said, "'this Krause must be!" What a man he is, to be· sure. He stands six feet three inches tall ·and weighs 21 0 pounds. He has the largest hands of any man on the team. He is a first-rate basketball player and handles the big oval like a baseball. On a practice field he can throw 60-and 70-yard forward passes with a football. Being a lineman, there is no likelihood of his being called on to demo~strate these prodigious heaves, but they are a sight to see. He and his teammate, 
George Kozac, stand with almost the length of a regulation field between them and loft those long passes to one another with the ease of small boys tossing pebbles. 
Krause was the man who recovered that blocked punt in the Northwestern game. Hoffmann had broken through to knock it down and Ed fell on it inside Northwestern's 20-yard line. That a muddy field and a stout Purple defense prevented a score was no fault of his. 
He and Culver have waged a nip and tuck battle for their position this year. But Culver has played his last game, and Ed should have undisputed first string rating next year. 
-[ 31 ]­
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1931-UniversilJ) of Nolre Dame 
PAUL HOST 
Left End 
Perfection can not be beaten, and 'Paul Host is perhaps the closest approach to perfection ever seen in a Notre Dame end. This is a big statement but it carries its own freight. 
Host has combined the ability of a natural athlete with the mind of an honor student and the spirit of a real warrior to make him­self outstanding as the most effortless player on the squad. In his two years of competition we have yet to see the tackle that could get to his body and drive him out of a running play. His feet move with the rapidity and lightness of a pianist's fingers. 
On offense, he is equally a threat to the opposition. He carried the ball three times on an end-around play this year and averaged 20 yards a trip-no back on the squad can approach this mark. Once, he caught a kickoff and returned 35 yards before he was forced out of bounds. He scored against Pittsburgh and Pennsyl­vania on goal line passes, short quick flips over the center of the line, neither of which seemed to be within reach. 
His greatest defensive performance was probably that against Southern California when he time and again threw back thrusts at his position when he was in relieving Kosky. On four distinct occasions, he piled up the interference on power rushes so that the ball carrier had no place to turn. On other plays, he was in there fast, sometimes stopping plays at the other side of the line before 
they could get started. On any team but Notre Dame's, he would be first string mate­rial. As it is, he alternates with Kosky and at the end of two years, it's not for us to say who is ahead. Both are back next year. 
EMMETT lv1URPHY 
~ttarterbac~ 
One of the greatest things said for the late Knute Rockne is that he, more than anyone else, developed the open game. As a player back in 19f1 to 1913 inclusive, he was short and light himself. He over· came his handicaps by working out a pass combination in which speed and agility triumphed over brawn and muscle. 
To his influence in thus opening up the game, such diminuative stars as Emmett Murphy owe much. Weighing only 153 pounds, Murphy, for all his strategy and courage, would have been laughed at had he gone out for the Notre Dame team of, for example, 1904 when ..The Mighty" Lou Salmon was establishing himself as one of the. game's greatest fullbacks. 
Now the axiom that a good big man is better than a good little man has . come into use. But Murphy is better thari about a dozen other bigger candidates for his post on the Notre Dame squad. \Vith both Murphy and Jaskwhich available, Coach ..Hunk" Anderson has a combination more satisfactory than any one man could possibly be. The answer is brains and coolness under fire. If one makes a slip, the other goes in and rectifies the error. 
You almost feel sorry for Murphy when he is back to catch a punt with a half dozen murderous linemen bearing down on him. We felt sorry for him at Pittsburgh under these conditions, until we saw what happened. With a Carnegie Tech lineman coming at him from each direction, pointing for the kill, it looked as if he would be annihilated on the spot. We shuddered and looked away. We looked back. He had sidestepped them and gone out of bounds. One was knocked out and the other was being carried away on a stretcher with a broken arm. 
So what? So write your own ticket. He'll be back again next year. 
-[ 32 ]­

OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universit.Y of Nolre Dame 
.-BERNIE LEAHY 
Fullbacl{ 
After the annual Freshman-Varsity battle in the fall of 1929, the late Coach Rockne made the statement that he had discovered a great halfback in Bernie Leahy. Bernie's playing couldn't be surpassed that day. He excelled in every department of the game-passing, punting, backing up the line, and carrying the ball. He moved among the Frosh like an irresistible cyclone wreaking havoc. He was a "find.'' . 
In practice he continued to play sensational ball but when sent into a regular game, Bernie tightened up. He couldn't loosen up, couldn't relax. The responsi­bility of playing his position weighed disastrously upon him. His emotional mechan­ism was so keyed up, that he was stiff, taut and practically useless. : :All the psychology in the world did Bernie no good and he had to yield to other rtien. Fighting this emotional handicap, he went through last season playing steady ball, gaining .experience, and winning -a monogram. 
With this year came his big chance. He has made as fine a comeback as was ever staged. At the start of the season he was shifted from left to right half. Then the famous jinx assailed the fullback post. Lukats and Banas were out because of ·injuries. Leahy was shifted again. He began playing a smashing game at fullback, and no sign of his old trouble appeared. He was substituted regularly into games and has been a consistent ground-gainer. His best performances were against North­western and Carnegie Tech. In the rain and mud at Chicago he showed himself a great defensive back. Against Tech he scored two touchdowns. 
Bernie lives in Chicago. He is five feet 10 inches tall and weighs 175 pounds. He prepped at St. Mel's. His coach, Paddy Driscoll, said he believes him the great­est high school player he had ever seen. 


CARL CRONIN Right Halfbac~ Last year it was Carl Cronin, quarterback and monogram man-even with Carideo, Jaskwhich, Murphy, Christman, Vejrlr and some others after the job. Carl's lack of size, which is so obvious that they call him '"Stumpy," hasn't slowed him up a bit in gaining recognition with Notre Dame. He has an indomitable fighting spirit and it's hard to keep a good fighter I down. I; ,

f' >.! 
Cronin was shifted to right half because in his 165 pounds, com­
(
pressed into five feet seven inches of height, there is dynamite. When he blocks, they stay blocked. And those short legs of his can pump­
J even when some burly giant. of a tackle has him by the neck, they keep pumping and he goes around in a circle trying to get extra inches out of what is usually a substantial gain. 
Cronin started out the season with the third string gang which at the time of the Indiana game included Pivarnik, Leonard, Wunsch, LaBorne, Vejar and a few other Fighting Irish. Cronin was the best battler of them all, though. They tell, in more or less clandestine way, the not very nice story about how a certain all-American fullback became riled in the heat of scrimmage, after Cronin had cut him down with a bullet tackle, and called Stumpy a bad name. Stumpy, until then going about his business of being a football player, '"hung one on,, the 200-pounder and laid him out. When he came to, the managers helped him to the gym. He didn't say anything more to Cronin. 
To get back to the Indiana game, Carl went in with the third team and, after a 15-yard penalty, climaxed an 8 5 -yard touchdown march by sprinting 35 yards for.: a score. He made some other longer and shorter runs during the season and some other touchdowns. He shifted around from the third to second team off and on during the year. But he never quit fighting. · 
-[ 33 )­


OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universit.Y of Notre Dame 

MIKE KOKEN 
Left Halfback.. 
Introducing-the 1932 varsity left halfba~k for Notre Dame, the·suc· cessor to Gipp, · Crowley, Flanagan, Niemiec, Elder, and Schwartz;. The lad who has played second string ball for two years and on many occasions out·Schwartz;ed Schwartz;. 
There's no one better you could ask for to succeed Marchy. Koken is one of the niftiest open field runners on the squad. He· doesn't run; he scoots, dodges, squirms, kicks for the extra inches when he's down, shows 'em his legs and takes 'em away like ··Rock, told him to. 
He.passes almost as well as Marchy and many of Notre Dame's touch· downs which he didn't make himself were brought about by his' passes last fall. He can punt with the best of them-55 and 60 yards con• sistently and well-placed. He can back up a line, cover on passes, and he can block. This gives you a fair idea of Mike's talents. . 
But he's not the type that does these things in practice· and then folds up in a game. He goes. into any game cold and starts off as if someone had released a spring. One of the many reasons given, from the Notre Dame side of the picture, why the Iri~h did not win over Southern California was the fact that Mike was in jured the week before and could not play. Schwartz; had to stick in there for 60 bruising, nerve-wracking minutes of play. Had Mike been able to go in at the end, fresh and rarin' to go, the Irish might have won. All credit, how· ever, to the Trojans. 
Here's your 1932 backfield: }ask which, Koken, Melinkovich, and Sheeketski. Try to stop them. 
GEORGE KOZAC 
Right 'Tack,.le 
It will be a great disappointment to many to learn that big George Kozak will not be eligible for football next year. Unfortunately ••Koz;y•• had played two· years of college football, before coming to Notre Dame, at Marshall college in Huntington, West Va. His home is in Cleveland, Ohio, and it was ,with Holy Name high there that he first started playirig football. He had always wanted to play on a Notre Dame football team, and finally made the break from Marshall and came on. He took a chance, did this big fellow, with only one year's eligibility, of ever making a Notre Dame te~m. But he thought he had the stuff, and soon was able to prove himself. 
Last spring at football practice, George and his running mate, Krause, were the surprise of the sessions. Apparently novices, fresh from the yearling team, they nevertheless seemed to take especial delight in smearing veteran tackles who had been regulars for two years. Carrying that same energy over into the fall, Kozak won a place as second string right tackle, Uf!der· studying Joe Kurth. 
Despite a bad knee that has been a considerable handicap to him all season, George has seen a great deal of action and has kept Notre Dame·s first string all· American tackle hustling to hold his position. · 
He is as strong offensively as defensively. He can knife his way through an opposing line to make tackle after tackle behind the line of scrimmage. On sweeps around end he crashes through, piles up the interference, and if he doesn't get the ball carrier, at least he leaves him unprotected. On offense he 

charges like a demon, and makes possible many a gain through his position. 
George is big and fast. He is 6 feet 2 inches tall and weighs 198 pounds. It is too bad that he will not be seen in action next year. He has given yeo· man service. 
-[ 34 }­

~ 
0FFICIA~ FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universit;y of Notre Dame 
NORMAN GREENEY 
Left Guard 
Up until the Carnegie Tech ga~e Norm Greeney gave Jim Harris, his fellow Ohioan, a merry fight for the varsity job at left guard. They had battled it out in 1930 for the second string berth under Tom Kassis, sort of a lower berth. 
They had even that expert diagnostician of front line ailments and curer of all guard ills, ..Hunk" Anderson himself, puzzled. One week would see Norm with the varsity, the next week Harris was up there. But in the Carnegie Tech game, Ander, son's problem was solved,.· although not in a very satisfactory way. 
They carried Norm off the field that day with a torn ligament. The job went to Harris and Norm was more or less in the back, . ground; never, because of the uncertainty of who was first string, having received. his proper recognition anyhow. But Norm was back out for practice by Wednesday, not in uniform, but smiling . and waiting immediately for the injury to heal. He wasn't really right the rest of the season, but he played. ..Still faking,,, he 
. would say with a friendly grin as he limped about the field. But both he and his rival and pal, Harris, will be back next year for more dueling. Lest you misjudge Anderson, let me say that it was not his order that Greeney play and scrimmage when not in the best condition. It was N arm's own idea . ..That's what I like about coaching at Notre Dame," Anderson said one day while squatting on the sidelines as his boys rolled up an easy victory over a hitherto undefeated team. ..Look at them (the opposition) .. They fold up when you block them. They don't like it. They want ·to get out of there. At Notre Dame they all WANT to play." Norm Greeney, let it be said, is one of the strongest proofs to back up this statement. 
BILL PIERCE 
Right Guard 
When a lad comes all the way from Sherman, Tex., to play foot, ball at Notre Dame, he means business. That's what little Bill Pierce,· the only ..watch,charm" guard, strange to say, on the first three teams this year, did and means. 
He and Bob Terlaak played with the shock troops last year and got plenty of chance to watch little Bert Metzger in action. Ter, laak did not return to school so it looked like Bill was a cinch to play with the first string. But then, Nordy Hoffmann d_ecided he would have a better chance at guard than at tackle-and a good big man is still better than a good little man. 
You'll hear from Bill next year, though, unless Coach Anderson finds out he has another year to play and goes in there himself. There'll be no denying Bill next year. He's not quite as small as Metzger was-five feet seven inches the same as Bert but he weighs more, 185. He fights the same way. 
One of the tragedies of the Southern California game was the fact that Bill received a· broken right arm the week of the classic battle and when Hoffmann's bad knee gave out, Anderson had only Harry Wunsch, a more or less inexperienced sophomore left guard, who played remarkable ball, considering everything, to send in. 
Bill, by the way, is a buddy of Big Joe Kurth's and Joe in turn pals around with Dick Mahony. Reading from right guard to right end, you will have Pierce, Kurth, and Mahony in the 1932 Notre Dame line. Right! 


-[ 35 ]­
w « 
...... ,. -· '''i' i!!?' ,. 
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil.Y of Notre Dame 
THOMAS GORMAN 
Center 
This is the man who in all likelihood will be first,stdng center next year.· Stepping into C~pt. Tommy Yarr's shoes' is a man,sized job; but ..Kitty, has been coming right along, perfecting himself· in pivot play, gaining valuable experience, and developing into a fit successor to this year's captain. 
. Gorman has. seen action in nearly every game. That he is a sure handler of the ball and an accurate passer was demonstrated by Coach Anderson's confidence in trusting a wet, muddy, and exceed· ingly slippery ball to him in the Northwestern game. · 
He is big, powerful, and fast. He can open up holes in the line, and on defense seems to be everywhere at once. He is quick to sense a pass, and has broken up many an aerial attack by his speed and alertness. In the Indiana game he intercepted a Hoosier pass I' and raced ,30 yards to a touchdown. That earned for him a new monicker. ..T. D.,, they call him now-··Touchdown, Gorman. 
Gorman is another who hails from the mid,western. metropolis. He made quite a reputation in high school playing ball with St. Phil· lip's, in the Chicago Catholic league. , 
Gorman weighs in at 187 pounds and stands six feet even. Com· petition for center on next year's team will be keen with Ben Alex• ·ander, John Rogers and others giving ••Kitty, a good race for the position. The Fighting Irishman will be ·right in there with the best of them, however, and a thrilling fight should result. 
HUGH DEVORE 
Right End 
_Almost unanimously the critics rise to aver that DeVore is the most vicious tackler on the squad; and as an afterthought add that he is one swell blocker, too. A hard tackler is noticed. There is a distinct thrill felt even by the witnesses of a sure and deadly tackle. Last year in the opening game with Southern Methodist, Joe Kurth made a meteoric rise to cinch a first string tackl~. berth. Outstanding in the great game he played that day was the smashing tackle he made of Mason, fleet ace of the Mustang backfield. The crash made as they came together was heard in the far corners of the Notre Dame stadium. That tackle was remembered and the story of it is oft,rep~ated. 
Then along_came Sophomore Hugh DeVore this year to attract atten, tion by the same method-savage, ruthless smearing. _He gives no quar, ter. After the Navy game sports writers who had attended agreed on one thing at least-that in all the football they had seen there had never been anything to compare with the fierceness of one of DeVore's tackles. 
Davis, the Navy quarterback, had gone back for a punt. He caught it, tucked it away and started forward. But he hadn't gone far when a green,jersied right end, charging like one of the Furies, met him head, on. The right end was DeYore and the ~rack of that impact still re, . sounds in the Baltimore stadium. 
His blocking is equally fatal. He turned in the neatest trick of the year in the Pittsburgh game, where on one play he made two blocks, cutting down three men. Pitt punted and DeYore blocked a tackle. Jaskwhich caught the punt and was chased by the Panthers. When the Notre Dame quarterback reversed his field, DeVore had tim~ to go back to give interference. Two Pitt men running one behind· the other were his objective. With a single hard reckless block he piled both of them out of the play and sent them flying. In the next two years Hugh should develop into one of the best wingmen ever seen on the campus. 
-[ 36 ]­


7YCJff-T"I a 
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931---:-Universil.Y of Notre Dame 
_. ·znm 
STEPHEN BANAS 
Fullbac~ 
Mr. Injury Jinks, who travels around from one football camp to another every fall, dropped in at Notre Dame the week prior to the opening game for an extended stay. It e~tended to the Army game, the last of the year. 
Mr. Jinks went out for the team and showed all the tenacity so vital to success on the gridiron. He didn't quite make the team-there was a lit· tie too much competition. But he did make the fullback post, ·doing his best, of course, to break it. 
At first he was fresh and he blocked. Nick Lukats one day,· breaking an ankle and utterly ruining any chance Nick had of playing all fall. Steve Banas, the ultimate subject of this piece, had been playing ~econd team ball under Lukats, so he went up to the varsity. 
He lasted just three weeks when this hard-hitting Jinx person came up from behind and twisted his right hand until it broke in the Drake game. Subsequently he got to Steve's successors, George Melinkovich and Bernie Leahy, although the latter was only kept from practicing for a couple of weeks with some bad muscle bruises. Melinkovich was lost for the South· ern California and Army games. 
But our friend Jinks was outnumbered finally-he should have tried a more vulnerable spot or a less versatile coach. Every time ·he cut down a star, a new one would shoot across the football firmament and into place. Banas went down against Drake. Melinkovich was badly injured in the first period of the Navy game a month later but Banas went back into the lineup and played better ball. than the first time he appeared. Against Southern California and Army he looked like a million. 
Outside of the fact that he wntes poetry and plays the piano on the side, he's a pretty swell gent-and they'll probably break him of these an· noying habits during his next two years. 
FRANK LABORNE 
Left Halfbac~ 
Competition made things pretty easy for Frank LaBorne 
. last fall, or pretty hard, depending on how you look at it. Coming in as a sophomore, he was faced with ·the job of land· ing on the third team; there _was little hope that he would rank ahead of Schwartz or Koken. 
Trying for the same position on the frosh team were Melin· 
· kovich, Banas, and Lukats. Bernie Leahy was . to be back and there were a couple of other pretty good men who want· ed to play with the varsity when Schwartz and Koken got through. This made the ·outlook bad for LaBorne, even though he had been all-state with the Brooklyn and New York City championship Brooklyn prep team of :1929. 
Then competition at the fullback post and the subsequent loss of one plunger after another, caused the coaches. to move first Banas and Lukats, then Leahy, and finally Melinkovich over to this spot. LaBorne won his spurs and a monogram 
. at left half. He did a bit of fullbacking himself for a couple of weeks and showed enough adaptability to enable him to make some long gains against Notre Dame's three foes from Pennsylvania. 
Where competition made things easier for Frank will be shown next year. At practice sessions, you could see him back on defense standing with Marchy Schwartz. Marchy . had already played against Notre Dame's 1931 opponents and he knew pretty well_ the various strengths and weaknesses of the opposition stars. Between plays there was a constant 
tions and Marchy telling him the answers.


When there is that feeling of co-operation between rivals for a position, you can hardly expect anything but success. 




.• i 
. :
~ 
. ~ ' l 

OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEw-1931-Universil.Y of Notre Dame 
REGIS McNAMARA 
Left 'facl{_le 
With only Al Culver and Ed Krause to compete with, Regis McNamara, who would rather be. known as ""Mac," should have been first team choice. Culver was only a two year veteran and the ""most under,rated player of 1930." Krause was just captain, all,city for three years, and all,state his last year at De LaSalle in Chicago. It took him two college games to get the experts talking him up for an all,American berth. 
Well, Mac, that's what you have to expect at Notre Dame. Rockne built up such a reputation that everyone wants to go there if he thinks there is any chance at all even of making a reserve team. '~Win a m~mo, gram and get a coaching job,, became the slogan last fall when 12 out of 15 .lettermen from 1930 started carrying on Rock's work as mentors. 
And it would be asking too much for you to beat out two fellows, either one of which might very logically have been picked by the all, America board. Someone had to play. third team ball and you did it in a way that was a credit to you and your school. 
When a fellow goes out and wins a monogram with the third team his sophomore year, he figures ""Well, the worst I can do is the secoQd team next year and the first team my Senior year.,, That thought probably passed through your .head, and you must have been disappointed at the way the breaks went for you. 
But more power to you for sticking up there ahead ofthe other competi, tion, for going about your monotonous practice routines so quietly and willingly, for going in there and playing your heart out every time you got the chance, for your friendly attitude toward the other fellows, many of them younger in years and experience than you. Y0u're too modest' to think that you'll even be missed next year, but you will, and this is from the heart! · 
LAURIE VEJAR 
~uarterbacl{_ 
The first game of the year with Indiana, Notre Dame leading, 19 to 0, last quarter, the third team goes in. That's the situation. A guard pipes up, ""Good thing for you guys we didn't start this game." The teams line up. The ball is Notre Dame's on its own 15,yard line. 
A stocky little quarterback who looks like a carbon copy of Carideo, slightly smaller, squats behind Center Ben Alexander. He surveys the Indiana defense and picks out a lineman who looks groggy. He chants his signals, a shift, the ball is snapped, two lines clash, and Left Half, back LaBorne is away for 2 5 yards. 
The same process repeated and Fullback Leonard dashes to the Indi, ana 20,yard line. The next. play draws a 15,yard penalty for holding in the line. The lineup again; will Notre Dame's third team lose its punch; will it come back like the varsity always does? The quarter, back calls the number, the shift; Right Halfback Cronin is away for another 3 5 yards and a touchdown. A hundred yards in three plays. 
A field general who can get those results with a third team, a leader who·can inspire a group ranked just a step ahead of the reserves to these heights, a planner who can pick· the flaws out of a defense and capitalize on them, a blocker who can pave the way to make his own choice of plays click-this boy must be good and he will go places in football. Laurie Vejar, whom we have just described, fills this order and that's~~~~~ enough said. 
Only one other thing: he is not a one,play or one,game man. He showed the same excellent qualities to Drake, Pennsylvania, and Car, negie Tech. Watch him go next year! 
, :1 I 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL 
RAY BRANCHEAU 
Right Halfbacl{ 
Number 12 is going to be a hard one to forget if you happen to be a Notre Dame football ·fan-and why are you reading this if you're not? In 1929 and 1930, Marty Brill showed the stuff he was made of by mak.. ing good in a large ~ay at right halfback after being cut from the varsity and placed with the reserves. at Penn. . 
He played with two national championship teams and was picked by the All..America board his second year. Both years he figured an even dozen was a pretty good number to have. 
So impressed was Ray Brancheau by the feats of this m~n who made good, that he packed up his suitcase after· being graduated from Monroe, Mich;, high school, squared his jaw, and set out for Notre Dame. ..Give me number 12," he told the equipment dispensers. Last fall saw him starring time and again with the second and third teams, although in com.. petition with more experienced Notre Dame right halfbacks. 
He saw action in nearly every game as soon as the varsity had done its work and left for the showers. And he gave both Joe Sheeketski and Stumpy Cronin something to worry about. He is better equipped physically for the wear and tear of the blocking position than either of his rivals and, with a year of experience behind him, will give Sheeketski a real run for his money next fall. Cronin will not be back. 
Ray's favorite activity, next to blocking, is backing up a line. He doesn't care so much about carrying the ball, even though he is one of these tricky stop and go open field artists who comes to a halt or slows down to a crawl long enough to slow up his would..be tacklers and then spins away like a rabbit before they can get up steam. If you will recall, Jack Chevigny, now backfield· coach, and Brill were both famous for the way they could drive those powerful shoulders into a fullback coming through the line and slow him up for the afternoon. That's what Ray loves. 
Unless we're sadly wrong, he'll be doing plenty of this sort of thing .in his next two years, so look out you line smashers! 
BENJAMIN ALEXANDER 
Center 
Lack of experience is all that kept Ben Alexander from great.. ness during the past season. Equipped with an ideal build·for a center and a spirit of do-or..die, he fought his way up to the third teani, dropped back to the reserves, and then came back up stronger than ever. · 
Only Capt. Tommy Yarr.and Tom Gorman were ~head of )lim. Two or three veterans were lost in the shuffle when he really started to fight. Next year, it. will be up to Gorman and Ben to carry on Yarr's fine work. 
Ben came to Notre Dame from San Marino, Cal. He didn't get into the Southern California game because Yarr played the full route, but the sting of that defeat cut him almost as deeply 
. as if he had been in the heat of battle. He had played high school ball with and against some of the Trojans and he naturally could not feel any enthusiasm over the way they came back in the last quarter to trample his present mates. 
Well, he has two years to help avenge that beating and to help build up a new victory streak for Howard Jones to shoot at~ 
Ben is a good student in journalism and otherwise proves him.. self a nice sort of fellow by not talking too much about the Cali.. fornia weather while Indiana's notorious rainmaker is doing his worst. Ben will go far with Notre Dame-he came a long way to play. football under Coach ..Hunk" Anderson and he didn't mean interhall football. · 
-[ 39 ]­


OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1931-UniversilJ,l of Nolre Dame 
HARRY WUNSCH Left Guard' . "'Local boy makes ·good,,, the downtown sport scribes can truthfully say­as they point with pride to South ·Bend·s fair-haired boy, Harry Wunsch. He is the only South Bender on the roster of Notre Dame·s first three. teams. And he is the first to achieve honor in his own country since John "'Ike, Voedisch, famous end now coaching the varsity wingmen, was grad· uated in 1927. · · Harry came to Notre Dame to play a backfield position.' At Central high in South Bend he had been a good fullback. He could buck a line, pass and block. And he could run. For his success in the dash and broad jump events he was awarded high school monograms in track. The coaches considered his speed, size, and strength and decided to make Harry over into a guard. The conversion was a success from the very start. In spring practice last year Harry served notice to all and sundry that he meant to have a guard·s berth with the reg~lars and dead bodies were no obstacle. He got it. In his first year of competition, too. When Pierce was injured, breaking an arm in scrimmage before the Southern California game, Wunsch was shifted from left to right guard and moved up to the second string. In the Southern California game he replaced Hoffmann when Nordy was hurt and had to be removed. So smashing a game did he play against seasoned California veterans like Baker and Williamson that in all probability he will be kept permanently on the right side of the line. He appeared in most of the games . this fall and always acquited himself welL He is the ideal type of Notre Dame guard, smart, fiery, and fast. He is especially adept at pulling out of a line and run· ning interference for the backs. He is a hard blocker and a savage tackler. In appearance he is short and fat, but there is not a superfluous ounce of tissue on him.. He is rugged and can take a~ well as give punishment. 
JOSEPH PIV ARNIK 
Right Guard 
Another 19 year old sophomore besides Krause who showed lots of class and promise this year is Joe Pivarnik. He plays right guard and has been understudy all year to N ordy Hoffmann and Bill Pierce. 
In the last quarter of the Indiana game, .Coach Anderson substi· tuted an entire third string team. The right guard who was inserted lined up and said to the opposing linesman, "'It's a good thing for you guys that we didn•t start this game.,, The ball at the time was on Notre Dame·s 15-yard stripe. Making good the word of their right guard, the third string proceeded in three plays, suffering meanwhile a 15·yard penalty, to score a touchdown. Leonard, LaBorne and Cronin were the backs carrying the ball, but it was the linemen who cleared the way. The right guard of "'It's a good thing for you guys, fame is Joe Pivarnik. · 
Joe hasn•t seen much action, but has been in often enough to gain 
valuable experience. He has two more years in which to develop. 
Next year he will fight it out with Bill Pierce and probably .Harry 
Wunsch for the varsity position. This being Nordy)-Ioffmann·s last 
year, his place has to be filled. · Pivarnik has played against Indiana, Carnegie Tech, Drake, Penn· 
sylvania, Navy, and Army. He played most of the Navy game and 
played well. All afternoon the Navy offense was bottled up. Not 
once did the reserves allow their goar to be threatened. 
His high school football career was sensational. He played with 
Harding high in Bridgeport, Conn., his home town. · ·When ready 
for college, Notre Dame attracted him more than any of the . Eastern 
schools, and he came west. After going through the usual bruising 
season with the Freshmen team, he came up to the varsity and won 
recognition. · 
-[ 40)­


OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil)J of Nolre Dame 
JAMES LEONARD 
Fullbacl{ 
In each one of the N 6tre Dame-Drake games during the past four years some unknown Irish back has burst into the limelight, copped all the honors and set tongues to wagging with the account of his deeds. Three years ago it was Larry ..Moon" Mullins who ripped and tore the Bulldog defense to shreds and covered · himself with glory. Two years ago big AI Howard pulled a game out of the fire when the fighting Drake aggregation surprised everyone by leading that year's national champions· for three quarters, 7-6. Then last year Dan Hanley made a name . for himself by his spectacular ball­. carrying, opening the eyes of the critics by the brilliance of his long, 
shifting, stop-and-go broken field runs. 
This year a new star appeared on the horizon in the person of 
Jim Leonard, -w~o cavorted up and down the field against Drake, 
twisting and squirming for long gains in a broken field and punch­
ing great holes in the line. Strange, that in every case the discovery 
was a fullback. It was a propitious beginning for Jim. And if tradi­
tion means anything, he should go places in the next two years. 
··The Drake game was not his first appearance. He had appeared 
in previous games, notably against Indiana when his 25·yard run in 
the last quarter paved the way for a touchdown by the third stringers. 
The Drake game, however, was the occasion for by far his best per­
formance. 
Jim prepped at St. Joseph's high in his home town, Pedricktown, 
N. J.· He is a sophomore, 20 years old, stands six feet even, and \veighs ·190 pounds. He already has the reputation of being one ·of the toughest men on the squad. He has risen this year from a fifth to a third string position, and will give Banas, Melinkovitch, and Lukats a fine race for their jobs. With the experience he has had this year, he has improved remarkably. 


NORBERT. CHRISTMAN 
~uarterbacl{ 
If any medals were handed out for perseverance, for dogged de­termination and absolute refusal to quit trying, Norb .. Swede" Christ­man should receive first honors. He is of Swedish extraction and hails from Green Bay, Wis. He played football with the East Green Bay high school team and achieved a fine record as both student and athlete. He is tall, well-built, blond, and handsome.. He is 21 years old, weighs 172 pounds, and stands five feet, nine inches. 
His career at Notre Dame has been an inspiring one, not so much from the standpoint of achievement, but from that of spirit and moral courage-:-what Notre Dame's beloved Knute Rockne called .. intes­tinal fortitude~, For when the going was toughest, ""Chris, fought his greatest battles; when his star sunk lowest, he rose to the heights. This was his last year of competition, his last chance to prove him­self. For three years he has been an in-an-outer, alternating between the varsity and the reserve ball teams. Just when he seemed to be hitting his stride, holding his own in the competition provided by great quarterbacks such as Carideo, Jaskwhich, and Murphy, some­thing would slip and ..Chris" would drop back to the reserves. Then began the struggle, always crowned with success, to win again a reg­ular berth. 
Early this season he was making trips with the reserves. They went to Buffalo and Christman showed himself the class of the field. So outstanding was his play in this game, attracting so much atten­tion, that he has been with the varsity ever since. He is a smart field general, and a fine leader. He can handle and return punts well, can block, kick, and pass. He has won the Hering medal award for accurate passing. And, above all, he has never said die. He has fought till the fin<;il whistle and given his best for N otrc Dame. No­tre Dame is proud of him. 
-[ 41 ]-. 
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universily of Notre Dame 
JOSEPH FOLEY 
~uarterbacl{ 
Competition for the quarterback position will be just as keen next year as this, perhaps more so, with all the regulars excepting Christman returning for another year. There will be Charley Jaskwhich, Emmett Murphy, Laurie Vejar, and Joe Foley. Foley has two more years to play. He is only a sophomore, but has managed to break into the lineup on several occasions this season. 
When his chances did come, he gave a good account of himself. His play against Northwestern on Soldier field was especially commendable. Battling in the rain' and mud to a nothing-nothing deadlock, each team waiting for a break and the chance to convert it into a score, good head,work was needed to ward off danger. Foley, when inserted, played safe, conservative football and learned the valuable lesson of when not to gamble. The experience he has gained this year should serve .him in good stead for ·next season. But he has. his job cut out for him. Any advantage won over Jaskwhich, Murphy, or Vejar will cost plenty of hard, bitter work. · 
Foley has the requisite qualities, :which with a little more seasoning should land him in a regular position. He can block, pass, and carry the ball. He weighs a mere 158 pounds, and stands only five feet seven inches, but he makes up for his small size with a world of fight and amazing self,confidenc.e, a valu­able and necessary asset to a quarterback. When calling signals in a tight spot, he can rely on that soft and delightful Southern drawl to throw his opponents off guard. He hails from Jacksonville, Fla., and prepped at Robert ,E. Lee high school there. On request, he will furnish mimeographed information, explaining why a certain town in Florida is named Foley. You see, suh, Colonel Joe comes of an old and distinguished family. 
CURTIS MILLHEAM 
Right Halfbacl{ 
Notre Dame two years ago had a great halfback, Jack Elder, possessed of a world of speed that enabled him to out-distance any man on any gridiron. And before that Notre Dame had a great quarterback, Art Parisien, whose chief attribute was his ability to drop long southpaw passes into the arms of sprinting ends and backs. Twice, once against Northwestern and once against Southern California, Art left, handed Notre Dame to seemingly impossible victories in the closing minutes of play. 
. Now Notre Dame has a Jack Elder and an Art Parisien all rolled up in one useful individual. And the name is Millheam:-Curtis (Duke) Millheam, weight 156 pounds, height five feet seven inches. He is fast. Those who witnessed his amazing speed in runs against Drake, Penn, Navy, and Carnegie Tech were reminded of the swiftness of Elder. And, they said, Millheam is shiftier than Elder, harder to bring down in a broken field. He can kick. And, wonder of wonders, he is an uncannily accurate left,handed passer. · 
This specialty of his was not uncorked until the Southern California game, when with less than a minute to play, Duke was sent in to snatch 
· · victory from the Californians, who in a brilliant last,quarter rally had scored 16 points to take the lead. Gathering in the kick,off, Duke raced 30 yards and was stopped on the 35,yard line. On_ the first play, Mur, phy calle.d a pass. The ball was handed to Duke, who faded back and to the left. Ed Kosky, left end, maneuvered into the open and tore down the field. Duke's left arm shot back, prepared to unleash a victory pass. But the fates did not smile on Notre Dame that Saturday as they did in 1926 when Parisien's toss to Niemic staved off defeat. The Trojan forwards crashed in, brushed aside interference, and smothered Millheam before he could get the ball off. One more play and the game was over. 
-[ 42 ]­


OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil.Y of Notre Dame 
JOHN ROGERS 
Center 
He is no respecter of p~rsons, this John Rogers. Nor of the size of persons. Nor of circumstances, however un, favorable. Only a sophomore last year on the national championship team, playing major opponents, he never, theless succeeded in winning the coveted monogram. And he had to contend with tremendous odds. John's chief handicap is his small stature. He is only five feet, eight inches tall. Then he weighs only 175 pounds. Playing a position where height and weight are important, where· six foot; 200,pounders are regarded as average, his lack of size was keenly felt. 
But if not a physical giant, he proved himself berserk in spirit. What inches and poundage he lacked, he made up for by the fire of his attack, by a fierce, defiant aggres, siveness that withered opponents twice his size and gave new meaning to the time,honored but sanctioned adag~ that the bigger they come, the harder they fall. This year he suffered a reversal of form. His charges were missing fire, his defense was. sluggish-he' had slowe? up. Bigger men like Gorman and Alexander, more smted to center playing, were getting the call over him. He was before long out of the varsity lineup and playing ball with the 
reserves. 
·He realized that he had slumped and determined to make a come,back. With all the old dash, he began to play rings around his opponents. He is a sure and careful passer, a deadly tackler, and fast going down u?der .punts . . When playing roving center on defense, he 1s· qmck to diagnose plays, and small as he is, is an alert defender against passes. He is still fighting and coming back strong. 
JOHN FLYNN 
_ Right 'fac~le 


It has been a battle of the giants this year for the right tackle position. Kurth, Kozak, and Flynn-to the death. Kurth, of championship caliber, was outstanding. But there ·is no doubt that the relentless and savage competition with Kozak and Flynn kept Notre Dame's all,American tackle continuously on his toes, inciting him to his best efforts. Kozak does not return and Flynn is prepared to step into his shoes as a second,stringer, ·assurance to followers of Notre Dame that this position will be ably taken care of. This 19,year,old sophomore tackle shows all kinds of promise, and if looking forward to 193 3 is not carrying prognosti, cation too far, we might say that Jack seems a sure bet for a first string position in that year. 
He is tall, good,looking, well,built, and has blonde curly hair. His height is six feet even, and he weighs 196 pounds. In high school he was big for his age and starred with Quincy high in his home town, Quincy, Ill. Opportunity was not ·tong in knock, ing at his door at Notre Dame. Fred Barstow, regular third, string tackle, was suddenly stricken with an appendicitis attack . four days before the Pittsburgh game, and, after an emergency operation, was declared unfit to play any more during the season. 
Coach Anderson, looking for a likely successor to Barstow, chanced upon the big and powerful Flynn, and gave him a trial. Though only a novice, Jack, whenever called upon, has vindicated Anderson's judgment. His best performance was against the Navy. He played a great part of that game, and it was his sterling defense work that had much to do with the way the Middy at, tack was kept in check all afternoon. 
-[ 43 ]­
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1931-University of Nolre Dame 
Unsung Heroes...-The ReserveS I 
NOTRE DAME RESERVES RECORD FOR 1931 
Reserves ....................................2 5; Indiana ..B, ................................ 2 Reserves .................................... 7; Kalamazoo ..................................19 Reserves .................................... 0; Ypsilanti ...................................... 0 Reserves ..................................... 6; Western State Teachers ............ 27 Reserves .................................... 14; Northwestern ..B, ...................... 6 Reserves ....................................12; Purdue ..B, ................................19 Reserves ....................................33; Buffalo University Varsity --------6 
Reserves ---------------------------------------6; Dayton University ---------·------------6 
By WALTER KENNEDY 
'''They will also serve Who only stand and wait." 
T
HE RESERVES do far more than stand. True it is they will serve . . . but not those who stand and wait. For the path of the unsung hero is not the path strewn with glory. It is the path strewn with hard knocks. But knowing they will also serve, these so called ..Ham, burgers" throw themselves into their daily task with a zest that is remarkable. Their job is to give the varsity workouts the next opponent's plays, and what workouts they are! Striving always to push themselves up a notch, with the varsity as their ultimate goal, the reserves some, times execute the plays of those they are emulating even better than they are executed by the originators. The varsity never find it easy to push these boys over the field; on the contrary, the reserves give them a tough time of it. 
But the .. Hamburgers" look forward to the end of the week, when every Saturday they doff the colors of the varsity's opponent and become wearers of the coveted blue and gold to take their place against the best teams in their class in the country, as standard bearers for Notre Dame. 
Four victories in eight games played is the record of the reserves for 1931. Not an impressive record on its face value, but 1n consideration of several outstanding facts, it is a commendable record. 
Two of the three defeats suffered by the team, came when the squad was split up, consequently the strength of the outfit was divided. The reserves kept their four, year record intact by never being defeated when their full strength was on the field. · 
The highlights of the season were the triple,header played on October 17, and the first intersectional game in the history of a Notre Dame reserves schedule. This took place on November 7, when the Notre Dame boys traveled to Buffalo, N. Y., to give the Buffalo university varsity a 33 to 6 shellacking. Two games were scheduled with Northwestern this year, the first of which went to the Blue and Gold by a 14 to 6 score. The second con, test, scheduled for Cartier field on November 14, was called off due to the conflict in the schedule of the Evans, ton combine. 
Starting the season off on the right foot, the reserves trampled the Indiana ..B, team, 2 5 to 2, while the varsity ~as running up a like total of points against Indiana varsity. The reserves showed plenty of speed and decep, tion plays in their opener, and' clicked well for a first game. The game was played at Cartier field, the only homes game on the list· for the Hamburger's this season. The Hoosiers were the first to sc'ore, getting two points in the first quarter when the Notre Dame quarterback made a safety. But directly. after that play, the reserves started a sustained drive down the field, k~eping the ball in their possession most of 'the half; the half time gun halted their chances of making a touchdown, ·when they had the ball on the three yard line. The second half was all Notre Dame, with long runs by Vette!, Hagan and · Witucki featuring the attack. Leo Cronan scored the first tally when he plunged over from the two yard line. On the play following the kickoff, Vettel weaved his ~ay through the entire Indiana team to scamper across the last stripe after covering 65 yards. Witucki counted the next score, when he intercepted a pass and slipped through . for 45 yards and a touchdown. Hagan finished the scoring for the day, when he plunged across fro~ t~e three yard stripe, after racing 71 yards on the previous 
play. · Evidently night football·· is not to ·the liking of the re' serves, for the following Friday night they traveled to . Kalamazoo, where they dropped atough battle to the Kala, mazoo college varsity g~idders by a 19 to 7 score. The Ka, .zoo aggregation presented· formidable opposition, and smothered most of the Blue and Gold's attempts to tally. Weakened by the fact that many of the players had been left in South Bend for the Northwestern trip the next day, the reserves nevertheless put up a· fine fight. Joe McCabe, quarterback and outstanding Notre Dame player, made the only tally on a sneak in the first quarter. Schrenker kicked goal to give the reserves a 7 to 0 lead; · but the Kazoo lads came back strong to knot the count before the end of the first quarter, and then to push over two more tallies before the end of the half. Deere, as fleet 
-[ 44]­
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil.Y of Notre Dame 
as his name implies, was the big gun iri. the winner's game, and tore off long gains consistently. 
The triple header was the next lap on the schedule, and resulted in a win, a tie, and a loss. Considering that the' teams were split up in such a manner, this was not a bad record. The victory· was over the Northwestern ""B" team. The reserves had been pointing for this contest all season, ·and played a bang·up game to eke out a 14 to 6 victory. Determined to show the Evanston fans what a 
.Notre Dame team could do on a perfect football day, the Fighti~g Irish played with a snap and zest that could not be thwarted. Leo Dilling scored both of the touchdowns, one on a long ~nd run, and the other when he took a 15' yard pass and raced 30 yards to score. Western State Normal's varsity downed the second. reserve team when they ran roughshod over a stubborn, fighting Notre Dame combine to take a 27 to 6 victory. The Blue and Gold re· lied on a passing attack, but several of the passes were in· tercepted and converted into touchdowns after long runs. ·Notre Dame's lone tally came after a 48 yard pass from Dehooge to Levins had placed the ball on the one foot line, from whence Jim Bosco plunged over for the score. 
The third game of the day resulted in a scoreless tie, when Ypsilanti battled the wearers of the Blue and Gold to a standstill in a game marred by frequent fumbles. Both teams presented strong defensive combinations, and this produced play in midfield during most of the game. In the last half both teams resorted to a passing game. An attempt at a field goal by Simmons, Normal full back, made late in the game, was short. 
Purdue's ..B, team was .the next opponent for the Irish reserves and once again, shorn of their strength by the splitting of the squad, the ·Irish were forced to bow in · defeat. However, the downstaters were outplayed throughout the contest, first downs showing Notre Dame team to be leading bv 2 to 1. The play almost throuf!hm!t the game was in. the winners' territory, and the Irish were forcing the playing at all times. Two long passes, which were good for touchdowns, and a blocked kick, which was later converted into six points, were too much for the Blue and Gold to overcome; ·however, and they had to be content with the thought that if first downs won football games, they would have been returned the victors. Acers and Dillings were the touchdown makers for the Irish, the former sprinting 52 ya:t:ds for his tally. 
The big game of the season, that against the Buffalo university varsity, found the Irish clicking on all sixes, and with their full strength on the field, they breezed through to a one· sided win. The final score was 3 3 to 6. Christman, heady quarterback of the reserves, ran the team in commendable shape, and it was mainly through his work that the Irish were able to run up such a large score. Dilling, outstanding Irish back, reeled off several long runs during the course of the afternoon, and was responsible for two of the touchdowns. Dilling gave the crowd, which numbered more than 5,000, a real after.. noon's treat, with sensational broken field running that gave the Buffalo team plenty of trouble. Grundeman, who played a stellar game, scored one of the touchdowns, also. The line play of Witucki, Schrenker and Rohrs, received considerable praise frmn Buffalo fans. 
Outstanding in the play of the reserves during the sea.. son was the work of several men who last year were members of a strong freshman squad. Together with sev· eral veterans, who played with the .. Hamburgers" last year, these men time after time, dominated the play of the various games. Roh~s, Robinson, Flynn, Witucki, Schrenker, and Carmody were towers of strength in the line play of the reserves, breaking up play after play when they were on the defense and shining on the attack with holes that gave the backfield men a chance to get away. The backfield stars, who played bangup games week after week, present names not unfamiliar to Notre Dame followers. ·Dilling, Acers, Hagan, Christman, Connelly, and McCabe were the boys who tore off so much yardage during the season, and who .were so ~argely re~ponsible for Notre Dame's great p9int scoring record. 

OUT OF THIS-THE RESERVES -[ 45]­
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REviEw-1931-Universil.Y of Notre Dame 
The lnterhall System 
By ]AMES McFEELY 
N
OW the Harvards and the Yales have installed the system of intra.. mural sports and are herald.. ing it as something new in this country, as some.. thing which they have imported directly from the dear old sod at Oxford or Cambridge 'or somewhere. And all this in spite of or because of the plea for the .. deemphasis" of football in our native .land. 
While the Eastern gentlemen fall all over themselves patting each other on the back about the splendid intra.. duction of such a noteworthy system in which everyone gets a chance for development, we of Notre Dame slink away into our corners and wonder whether we are recog.. nized as a university of merit. 
Ever since the good Father Sarin signed up the second student at Notre Dame, this school by the shores of good old St. Joseph and St. Mary·s lakes has had some form of competitive athletics in which the students battled among themselves for supremacy and didn't give a hang about the Harvards and the Yales. 
Notre Dame·s system of intra.. mural athletics grew up with the school. There was no attempt to pattern the methods employed after any other system then in exist.. ence. This form of inter..hall competition merely sprung up with the desire for exercise for the student body. 
The first teams that Notre Dame ever sent on the field against other schools in the surrounding reservations were in reality hall teams, those that had emerged from the scuffle and had beaten the other hall outfits. 
One has but to look at the often.. printed and as often laughed at· picture of the moustached boys back in the eighties who first took it upon themselves to die for dear old Notre Dame. After a glance at such an edifying study of the men of the day, we learn: that they, too, were often victorious. · 
And then must follow the explanation of the factors that underly the success of Notre Dame teams. From the physical standpoint there are two things that stand out as probable causes. They are these-interhall athletics and discipline. 
· These two may be linked together. It is not to be thought that interhall activities grew up as a disciplinary measure, but the intense campus rivalry tends somewhat to keep the boys• minds from more vicious pursuits and at the same time serves materially to aid in the upbuild· ing and the physical well-being of the individual. 
As the late Knute K. Rockne once said, .. They play on hall teams, corridor teams, class teams, and any kind of teams just so they play football." That is the situation. Some 400 students, besides the ~arsity and fre~hman play• ers, are given a chance to play' football through the em· ployment of the interhall system of sports p~omotion. A close check would reveal that nearly every one of Notre Dame·s 3,000 students indulges in'some interhall sport, whether it be football, basketball, baseball, track, hand· ball, swimming, golf, boxing, or: tennis. 
· The bill for expenses incurred in the outfitting of the interhall teams exceeds that for" equipping va.rsity players. The interhall system is more than a training for varsity competitiqn~ The well..being of the individual is held uppermost and an opportunity is afforded those who do not care to make the atte~pt for a varsity position. 

OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil.Y of Notre Dame 
To expound the disciplinary code that aids in the de­velopment of the men and keeping them in trim would be to utter platitudes to the student, but, to the outsider, the rules governing the actions of the student are exceed­ingly interesting, especially in this present day world of ours. 
The following is a resume of the activities of the Notre 
-Dame man from the time he hits the cold, hard boards in the early morning until he finally slides into his cot as the lights are switched off at eleven o'clock: rise-6 :00 o'clock; morning prayer is followed by breakfast at 7 :00; classes· begin at 8:00 o'clock; lunch at noon, and then come. more classes, followed by recreation or study as the case may be; dinner is at 6:00, and night prayer takes a few minutes at .7 :30. The remaining hours are given over to study. Lights in freshman halls are out at 10:00; the upper classmen have an extra hotir of grace. Then sleep, following which the man again rises and repeats 
_ the process. It is during the interim between the afternoon classes and the dinner hour that the student indulges in practice with his interhall squad. Regular practice schedules are drawn up and coaches are assigned by the department of physical education. Several practice fields are used by the interhall teams, and the campus usually seems littered with the enthusiasts as they run through their paces in the afternoon in preparation for the Sunday games. In football each hall is permitted to play one game away from home on Thanksgiving. Contests are usually scheduled with high school or other teams of similar caliber in the surrounding states. Several of those played this fall by the interhall teams were for the purpose of furnishing funds for charitable purposes. -Since the university is not co-educational and there are no fraternities, a system of interhall athletics seems natur­ally to result. This form of organized sport with a spirit of rivalry which springs up between the halls on the campus affords an outlet for the otherwise pent up fed· ings of the individual who seeks some form of recreation to lessen the monotony of pos~ible habitual study. 
The season just ended saw St. Edward's hall team emerge the victor from the pile of 14 teams which par­tic~pated in interhall football activities. In the past few years there have been but 12 aspirants but with the addition of Dillon and Alumni halls to the list the num­ber thereby mounted. 
The halls are div.lded into two groups, and the winners in each are pitted against each other in the last game of the season for the championship of the school. Walsh hall bounced to the top in its own league, and, in the final playoff against St. ;Edward's, fell by a score of 12 to 6. 
Not wishing to allow the St. Edward's boys to gail}. the honors without-a fight for it, Badin hall's entry ran neck and neck with St. Edward's in group one throughout the season. An extra game was necessary in order to ascer, tain the representative for the championship contest. Badin, although that team had downed St. Edward's in a previous game, threw away its chances for the laurel wreaths when it fell by the wayside on the short end of a 6 to 0 score. 
Interhall activities during the past season have been under the supervision of John Frederick, assistant foot­ball coach at the university. Coaches were appointed by the rectors of the various halls, and the officials were chosen by the department of physical education. 
INTERHALL STANDINGS 
Group 1 
w. 
St. Edward's ................................ 6 Badin .......................................... 5 Lyons ........................................... 4 Morrissey ..................................... 3 Corby ........................................... 2 Dillon ........................................... 1 Sophomore ........................................... 1 
Group2 
w. 
Walsh ..........................................-4 Alumni .......................................... 2 Carroll 3
······································ 
Off-Campus 2
································ 
Howard ...................................... 1 Brownson .................................. 0 Freshman ...................................... 0 
L.  T.  Pet.  
1  .859  
2  0  .714  
2  0  .650  
3  0  .500  
4  0  .333  
5  0  .200  
5  0  .200  
L.  T.  ·Pet.  
0  2  1.000  
0  4  1.000  
2  .750  
2  2  .500  
4  .200  
2  4  .000  
3  3  .000  

1931 ALL-INTERHALL SELECTIONS 
First Team Position Second Team 
Sandura (Lyons) ~----------------~------~---------······-Left End .................................. qarpenter (St. Edward's) Coughlin (Badin) ........................................ Left Tackle ......................... _. ....Murphy (Off-Campus) Viviano (Brownson) .................................... Left Guard ...... ~-------------------·---Foss (Freshman) Andrews (St. Edward's) .............................. Center ... ~---·····························-Danes (Alumm) O'Brien (St. Edward's) ................................ Right Guard ............................ Bresson (Walsh) McCann (Walsh) ........................................ Right Tackle ............................ Huisking (Lyons) 
Jane (Walsh) ············:··························.····--·Right End ................................ Mik~s {Walsh) Conti (Badin) .............................................. Quarterback ............................ Crawford (Walsh) 
Carney (Lyons) ·--~--·-·········------···················Left HalL............................... Shinkowitz {St. Edward's) Law (Walsh) ·········---~----·····························Right HalL............................ Ackerman (Alumni) McCarthy (Walsh) .................................... Fullback ................................... Newbold (St. ;Edward's) 
-( 47 ]­

OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil.Y of Nolre Dame 




Freshman Football 
By GEORGE BELTING 

JACK CARBERRY CLARENCE KAPLAN 
W
HEN the first call for candidates for the Notre Dame freshman team was issued, ·236 stalwarts reported to Coaches Kappy Kaplan, Art Parisien, Jake Kline, and Jack Carberry. In that array of aspirants, whose sole aim was someday to play on the great Notre. Dame varsity,. there were former. high school captains, all-city choices, aU-state selections, coaches' most valuable players, and some men who had never even handled a football. Only a coach can appreciate ·the responsibility that is his who has to care for a team, be they varsity 
·men or freshmen players. Accordingly, the Notre Dame freshman mentors; realizing the importance of their posi­tions, took cognizance of the fact that the freshmen of today are the varsity of tomorrow. 
The weeding-out process required much time and de­liberation. All aspirants were given their chance to make 
JAKE KLINE ART PARISIEN 
cut from the squad; but a footba11 coach cannot consider fond dreams when he ·is picking a team that must some day replace all-Americans such as Schwartz, Yarr, Kurth and Hoffmann. When the three-quarter mark had been reached in the varsity schedule all the cuts had been made and 75 jubilant freshmen had weathered the storm of competition. 
After being drilled in the fundamentals of the Rockne system, the yearlings were taught the plays of the var' sity's opponents. . The aid that the freshmen afforded Senior Coach .. Hunk.. Anderson and his staff cannot be overestimated. And the precision and accurateness with which the first year men ran through the opponents' plays speaks well for~ the success of the ••Fighting Jrish', in future years. . . 
With the. passing of the \•Guiding Light" in Notre 
good and if they didn't come through they were dropped. . Dame athletics, the four freshmen coaches realized that . Many a freshman's fond dream was shattered as he was their burden was heavy.. It was up to them to teach 2~0 
-[ 48 )­
fT 
zwr~-Zf''IjSffitU T ·-w-rt'-r 7'73£FFT?77VZ iiiriri
if we= 
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEw-1931-Universit}J of N olre J?ame 
or more Notre Dame men the secrets which spell sue; cess for the Blue and Gold on the gridiron. They knew the Rockne system, everyone of them having played on Notre.Dame elevens of the past. They took one look at the varsity roster of this year and saw the names-Hugh DeVore, Duke Millhiem, George Melinkovich, Jim Leon­ard,. Joe Pivarnik, and Ed Krause, all members of last year's freshmen team. Then they knew that a great task confronted them if they were to surpass or even equal the marvelous record established by Bill Jones and Manny Vezie, the 19.30 freshmen coaches. 
As usual, there was a large number of quarterbacks 
who ·wished to emulate .the all-American, Frank Carideo. 
A cousin of the former Notre Dame star reported for 
the team at the signal barking position. So don't be sur­
prised if in another year or two another Carideo should 
be considered as an all-American possibility. A 165­
pound lad named Bonar, who hails from Bellaire, Ohio, 
and who is a nice broken-field runner as well as an apt 
pass receiver, heads the long list of potential field gen.­
erals. Gaul, and Mettler are also pleasing prospects. 
"Be as good as Marchy Schwartz," was the war cry of the candidat.es for the left halfback post. There were several men aspiring to this position who would have cheered the heart of any coach. Costello is an excellent . passer and also knows how to run the ball. Digilef, Armstrong and another Carideo, a brother of the famous Frank, were other outstanding men at this particular 
berth. 
The right halfbacks were duly represented by a young 
man, Muddrey by name, who traveled all the way from 
Texas in order to receive recognition from the Notre 
Dame coaches. He excels in punting· and passing. Lay.. 
den and Young also looked good. 
A finer group of fullbacks than the one which reported 
for the freshmen team would be hard to find. Basan 
appears to be varsity material. Deal, Egan, Kreuz, Mc.­
Carthy, Martin, O'Neil and Urban are also high pow.­
ered, hard plunging fullbacks. 
The center position is always one which has been 
hotly contested by the freshmen candidates and this year 
proved no exception. Selarii, a tall, husky, hard.-fighting 
lad who tips the scales at 200 pounds, appears to pos.­
sess the main qualities of a good ball snapper. However, 
Nadeau and Tollini gave him plenty of competition, and 
with the accuratepess which comes with experience· they 
may also follow in the footsteps of the 1931 all.-American 
and captain, Tommy Yarr. 
Twenty-five green-jersied warriors applied for the guard 
posts. This is one of the most important positions in 
the Rockne system and competitors must be powerful, 
aggressive, and good blockers. Knappman and Shamla 
were promising at this position. Daemers, Garay, 
Lesko and Kelley may also develop into efficient guards. 
The tackle positions on the Notre Dame varsity have 
always been one of the strongest points. And if the 
freshmen warriors have anything to say about it they 
are not going to allow those berths to suffer because of 
a lack of weight. Two of the fastest applicants for those 
particular jobs were Pfefferle, who scales 210 pounds, and 
his mate, Becker, though weighing only 190 pounds, is 
just as fast. Other outstanding tackles are: Esser, Marek, 
Smith and Roccobono. 
There were also plenty of talented performers for the 
wing positions. Many people believe that all an end has 
to. do is to catch forward passes; but there is as much 
blocking, running interference and tackling at the end 
positions as there is in any other section of the line. A 
good end is considered a "find" by any coach, so credit 
the freshmen mentors with "finding" Rogers, a sterling 
six.-footer, weighing 185 pounds, who hails from Glenco, 
Minn.; also Quinlan, another strapping, powerful lad, 
who would be dangerous in any line-up. Albosta, Bow.­
dren, Brown, Davis and O'Brien are equally promising. It may not be out of place right here to mention that when a man trys out for a Notre Dame team, in what.. ever sport it may be, all his newspaper clippings, all his high school write-ups, all his monograms and service stripes are a thing of the past. He is just another dreamer .of heroic dreams to the coaches but he gets his chance 
to make good. If he fails, he has no one to blam·e but 
himself; if he succeeds it is his own glory. In other words, 
it is up to him to come through. It is not what you 
were or what you did, but what you are and what you 
can do, is the criterion by which the surviving 75 are 
chosen. 
There are many men who have carried the Notre 
Dame colors at home and on foreign fields, who had never 
played football until their freshman year, and who have 
developed into all.-Americans. Given their chance, they 
made good. Perhaps the most outstanding present ex.­
ample of this type of player is Nordy Hoffmann, than 
whom there are few better. 

OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil.Y of Notre Dame 
· , l~ ~EMORY Of A~I K\~G 
ROCKNE W/15 f\ VIKING .... SAILING-DARK UNC\-\~RTED SEAS 
OF RX>TsA.LL HE MAD5 MORE IMfbRT­ANT DISCOVERtESd 
lHAN AN'/ MAN lN
lHE G~M&...... I-\E AA.D NOT ON~ Tf-tE VIK/~6DESIP€ To Fl ND NELD 
SIRAN65 'LA.ND~ 
SUI ALL OF 11-\E 
CoURAGE OF LEIF T-\E . ll.X1<'/ ...... NO(ONL'/ B~ ~\S KNouJ.LEDc:tE OF N~\J\GAlfoN D\DHS 
WIN ~IS wA..'{ To FAR/ GRE:EN GOALS 8Uf +l£ WL\~ ALEAD8RJ Wt-\0 IMPARTED lo ~WS . CREWS FAIT!-\ l~ fr\EIR., ' ~\<lWER AND lAE WlS~ to WI~ FOR. HIM'"'"'"
RDCKME 1-\AS Gc:NE 10 HIS oeATl-L ...... 1"-1 A BRokEN S\-\1~ Ll ~S OT\-\~ BRA\Je:. NORSE/'lalBE:FoRE 1-\!M .....~ BUT ~E RE.MAI~S ATWC: ~ELM 
AT NDrRt DAMS............ 
PEERttJG /1\}To 1H£ Vf.\6UE DARKNESS ...... AND l-\\'5 CREUJS 5TiLL
CARRY Ot\.\ ...,, ... 
Drawn [o1· the Review by Werner Laufer. 
-[ 5'0)­
··~-_:. ' ~-\' · : I:. ' , . : '. . l -:.,. ~ •• • • ~ •
I _. • -• .. • : • , 
'] 
·.1
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1931-Univ~rsily of Nolre Dame 
A Viking_ Goes to Rest 
By GEORGE TREVOR 
EniTOit's NoTE: This is reprinted from the April 6, ·l!J31, issue of the New York Sun through the courtesy of this. paper and the author. 
"SOFT landings, .coach" was the parting salutation of an acquaintance as Knute Rockne boarded the . plane that was not fated to reach ~ts destination. .. You mean happy landings,, Rockne corrected. Those the last words which the world was to hear from Rockne, · were typical of the man who hated the expression .. soft." 
It is almost impossible for one who knew Rockne in~ timately to write of his death without overdoing the sen~ timental side, but let us take our cue from the departed leader and avoid anything that savors of mawkish emo~ tionalism. He detested .. sob stuff., 
Rockne has gone, bequeathing Notre Dame a priceless legacy of. memories, and leaving to us outsiders some slo· gans, embodying his cree~ of duty, which may help us to play a more manly .part in the uncompromising game of life. He who was behind the door when fear went by had a message of courage for the ~verage man. 
More 'Than a Coach 
Rockne's career was interwoven with football, yet to 
think of him as just a football coach-albeit the greatest 
-is a narrow conception· which does scant justice to his 
many-sided character. It is as a leader and teacher, rather 
than as a football coach, that Rockne's fame will endure. 
The game has developed strategists of greater originality; · 
it has produced drill maste~s more exacting in technical 
detail; it has never known a leader~teacher who could so 
move the minds and hearts of men as Knute Rockne did 
through the sheer force of a compelling personality." 
Great · teachers are even rarer than natural· leaders. 
When these t~o qualities are blended in one man and 
quickened by that intangible something we call genius, 
you have ~ Knute Rockne. He belonged to Notre Dame 
first, but he belonged to America too. Not since Theo-. 
dore Roosevelt's gay has any single man so influenced the 
living habits of impressionable youngsters as Rockne did. 
Rockne took the curse off that faintly derisive phrase 
"'character builder." Among hard-boiled coaches it is the 
custom to refer to. an unsuccessful colleague as a .. builder 
of character., This sardonic cynicism lost .its ironic flavor 
when· applied to Rockne: He proved that the two objec~ 
tives were not incompatible by building character in the 
process of creating invincible teams. 
Building Character 
Rockne's elevens reflected the character of the individ~ · 
uals composing them, and it was he, in turn, who shaped 
the characters of those individuals. Thus each Notre ·Dame eleven, in a very· real sense, was a .. Rockne team,,_ a phrase which implied no intent on Rockne's part to seize the spotlight. . 
As a· matter of fact, Rockne didn't seek ~he personal 
advertising which his Notre Dame affiliation thrust upon 
him. He flatly rejected the proposal to call the new 
South Bend coliseum ..Rockne Stadium., That idea will  
now be revived as a fitting memorial to the man who did  
most to clothe this football dream in concrete, but those who reverence Rockne's wishes should vote down the  01  
propo~1t10n. ..There is only one fitting name for this  
arena," said Rockne, .. and that is Notre Dame Stadium .  
~et us ·keep our sense of proportion., He always did.  
Delusions of grandeur never touched this simple, ·solid  
man whose life personified those rugged, homespun quali~  
ties we admire in Abraham Lincoln. Indeed~ there is  
something Lincolnesque in the wealth of anecdotes, fla~  
vored with humor, which cluster about the unpretentious  
but ambitious Norwegian leader.  :  
Note Rockne's last phrase-..happy landings." That  
cheerful adjective symbolizes his coaching regime. Those  
were happy terms that Rockne fathered-happy without  
sacrificing a jot of determination. There was a joyous~  
ness quality in their play, a gay and gallant courage, an  
exuberance born of a real zest for football. It is· a trait  
vou miss in teams coached by hardbaked drill masters of  
the top~sergeant school.  
'The Understanding_ Heart  
Rockne was a stern taskmaster, yes, but his flinty veneer  
masked a sympathetic, essentially ge1,1tle soul. There is  
a world of difference between gentleness and softness.  
Rockne liked to convey the impression that he was .. hard  
boiled," but though none of his players ever questioned  
his authority and "got away with it," the kindly sym~  
pathy and paternal understanding which were Rockne  
attributes could not be entirely concealed. The lowliest  
substitute at Notre Dame, sensed this human touch, felt  
that it belonged to Rockne's household. That is why his­ 
Notre Dame pupils share in lesser degree the family's feel~  
ing of personal loss. Aptly has it been said, ..The bravest  
are the tenderest.,  
Rockne's elevens mirrored the man who fashioned them.  
They reflected his serenity, his mental poise, his love of a  
clean, hard scrap. They exemplified his favorite maxim:  
..When the going gets tough that's when we like it., It  
would be difficult to thinlq of a more effective slogan on  
which to pattern your life.  
Rockne often used that phrase between the halves of a.  
close-fought game. His men heard it for the last time  
from his lips during the intermission following the first  
half of the ·Northwestern match when defeat starer\  
Notre Dame in the eye. The comparatively light Irish  
line had been battered mercilessly by the Purple·jersied  
giants, though fumbling had averted a touchdown.  
Conley's men had that haggard look which presages  
defeat. It seemed that brute power would prove their  
undoing in the periods to come. Then Rockne .broke the  
pin-dropping silence of that locker room: Biting off his  
words almost savagely, but without raising his voice un·  
(Continued on page !J!J)  

-[51]~ 
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil.Y of Notre Dame 

-[ ~2 ]­

OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEw-1931-Universil)) of Nolre Dame 
Rockne As I Knew Him 
By. ARCH wARD Sports Editor THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE 
T
HE Knute Rockne I first knew was not the same . dynamic personality who gave the United States its greatest football teams and became one of the most brilliant and sought after speakers in the country. He was a tireless, energetic young man rapidly approaching total baldness, but he had yet to reach the threshold of a career the tragic end of which plunged a nation into ~ourning. The inspirational fi~e and the ?rusque de, hvery. were there, but these gifts were still to reach 
matunty. b ll d h . . N 
It U:Ight e we ;o set own t e situatlOn at . otre 
?arne m 1919' Rock s first real year as coach, to give. an 
Idea. of ~ow ~e started: The Sout.h Ben? team was JUSt 
commg mto Its own as a factor m national football, a
d" · h" h h h h d t ·b t d 
.conllitlOnttod w. IC h! e young coac 1 ae coTnhn utoe noof 
sma par unng Is career as a pay r. e s ry
how Charles Dorais and Knute Rockne forward passed 
a powerful Army team into defeat in 1913 is one· of the 
brightest chapters in the history of the game. 
It was this same Dorais who was chosen to assist Rockne 
in the coaching of that 1919 team. The schedule for that 
year included games with Kalamazoo, Mount Union and 
Morningside, the last named providing the opposition for 
the final game of the season. Only two teams-Army 
and Nebraska-rated the status of traditional foes on the 
schedule. C!Jmpare the roster of such present day OP' 
pon~nts ~s N.avy, Pennsylvania, ~ittsburgh and Souther~ 
Cahforma w1th ·these an? th: p1cture of Notre Dame 5 
first year u~der Rockne 1s ev1dent. It also bears out ~he ·fact that w1th Rockne c~me t~e. developmen~ a~d mam, tenance of Notre Dame s pos1t10n as Amenca s No. 1 football team. · 
• 1 · t g 1 to arn the where
Tl1e story of Rockne s ear y s ru g es e. ' 
withal for a college education has been told again arid 
again, but a little known one is the record of his :first few 
years as coach and no less a tale of hardship than his 
battle to get through college. 
Here he ·was, a young man in his ·first year of coach, 
ing, on trial before the football fans of the country. 
Notre Dame had first presented its_ case in Rockne's own 
time as a player and now it was up to him to drive home 
the clinching argum.ents. · . 
It was no easy assignment, as Rockne. discovered before 
he finally brought it to a successful conclusion. He re, ceived about $3,5'00 salary for that :first year, a sum mini, · mized by the fact that he was supporting a family. And if Notre Dame followers. of today think that Rockne was merely a football coach, concerned only with forward passes and off tackle plays; they don't know the story of 
his early coaching days. 
Yes, he did devote the majority of his time to the team, 
building up its offense and defense, but he went beyond 
that with a thoroughness and eagnerness that was typical 
of him. He was rubber and trainer, administering to 
the hurts and bruises acquired under his tutelage. He was 
his own freight department, overseeing the dispatching 
and arrival of uniforms on gam-es away from home. He 
was his own secretary, attending personally to all corre, 
spondence relative to the school's athletic work. He 
. coached _the track team and for two weeks, during 
the illness of Dorais, who coached basketball also, he tu, 
tored the cage team. 
There were a thousand and one details, such as would 
have supplied seven or eight of a modern athletic direc, 
tor's minions with work, but which Rock saw to himself. 
All of this was comparatively unknown to the average 
student, who had a picture of Rockne as a chemistry 
professor who coached the football team. That chemistry 
class was jus~ another illustration of his apparently bound, 
less capacity for work. 
What was the operating base for this almost endless 
campaign of activity? Just a tiny room on the second 
f1 f h. A.d · · · B "ld · h fif · 
oor o t e mmistratlOn UI mg, not more t an teen 
feet square and with nary a window in it. The writer 
d h" b. 1 ·d d 1 · h 
use t IS cu IC e a~ a stu '! room an !ere It was. t at 
Rock.ne each morm?~ outlmed the team s plans for the 
day msofa~ as publicity a~d news were concerned. 
It wasn t the mere domg of these chores that made 
Rockne's first few years difficult. There were other ob, 
stacles, such as the occasional cases of temperament 
among players which had to be ironed out. Still an, 
other point in Rockne's makeup which underwent a 
remarkable change with the passing of the years was his 
speaking ability. · 
He made talks at pep sessions which, while they were 
delivered with spirit,. nevertheless lacked the force and 
fluency of the speeches that later contributed to his fame 
as a radio and after dinner raconteur, not to mention 
his dressit1g room sermons. 
H. · k 11 d f h · f
1s nse as a spea ·er rea y ates rom t e wmter o 
-ll . h f 1 f h 
1924,2), fo owmg_ t e _success~ seas~n o t e Four . Horsem:n. Then lt wa~ that his speakmg talent began to flounsh, for he was 111 demand not only at football banquets, but at commercial functions and sales con, 
ventions as \':ell. . . 
The only mstruct10n he ever gave m regard to pub, 
licity emanating from Notre Dame was thi.s: 
.. I am running this team. Nobody else has anything 
to say about its makeup or play. If it's a flop, pan me. 
If it's a success,-well, let them say what they choose. 
I have worked around here as an assistant coach for four 
years and seldom have seen my name in print." 
That typified Rockne's philosophy of life. He wanted 
what was coming to him, nothing more. 
As to his philosophy on Notre Dame-that was con, 
tained in ·a talk with him shortly after he was involved 
over a coaching_ offer from Columbia university. This is 
what he said: 
..Don't ever pay any attention to rumors about me 
going elsewhere to coach. Notre Dame took me in as 
a poor boy years ago. It gave me the opportunity' for 
an education. It e,nabled me to make good .in a :field I 
have chosen for my own. I am indebted to the school 
as long as I live. Nothing ever will tear me away, no 
matter what the inducements. When I quit coaching 
Notre Dame, I am through with football." 
-[53]­

OFFICIAL' FooTBALL REVIEW-19?1-Universil.Y of Notre Dame 
They'II Be M'issing You1 Rock I 
By wARREN BROWN 
Sports Editor, Chicago Herald and Examiner 

Rockne, like Rockne~s teams, got around more than the average. His contacts with coaches then, were apt to be more ex.tensive than might have been the case, 
. ordinarily. But Rockne wasn't satisfied with mere con, tacts. His relations with coaches went beyond that. He counted them as friends, and they looked to him not only for friendship,· but in some cases, for their very livelihood. · 
It is telling no tales out of school, to make the state, ment that there are coaches now on the job in this coun, try, who have been placed by Rockne, and whose stay where they were placed has been made possible by an occasional kindly gesture that Rockne t:nade their way. 
These coaches, I am sure, will lbok long, indeed, before they will find another to break their· falls, and do it, not had to be started, on the frequent occasions that the blue, noses decided football was being emphasized, when what they actually had in mind, was that coaches should be put in their places. And the place for coac~es, accord, ing to their theory, was somewhere between a plumber's helper and a janitor's caddy. 
In these counter,offensives, Rockne was at his best, in the way of repartee. No other coach could turn a phrase back at the '"common enemy,, like Rockne could. To start with, he had something that was valuable, in con, troversies of this kind. That was a sense of humor. Ob, viously the reformers had no sense of humor. With one, they couldn't be reformers. . 
On this score alone, Rockne's loss to the entire body of coaches is a tremendous one. 
(Continued on page 100) 
-[Hl­
ma·-= 
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEw-1931-Universil.Y of Notre Dame 
The Twinkle in Rockne's Eyes 
By PAT FLANAGAN, Sports Announcer WBBM · 
.HAT twinkle always meant that Rockne was using that rapid fire brain of his to keep the other fellow constantly on the defensive. Rockne's wit was used
T 
in exactly the same manner as were the plays he outlined and taught to the hundreds of men who passed through his tutelage at Notre Dame. As long as he could keep the other fellow guessing in football he had the upper hand and as long as he had hundreds of men for reserves he could always plan his attack. The same was true of Rockne's stories. He. 0 had literally thou­sands of them stored ..~o away in his memory and as a great many other men do who are constantly before the public, he used them to keep the other fel­low off balance men­tally. That is one of the main reasons why it was impossible to 
corner Rockne. As 
an example, the last 
time I talked with 
Rock it was of course 
about football and the 
subject was the 1930 
Notre Dame-North­
western game. 
He said, "Pat, what 
made those North­
western boys fumble 
that ball when they 
~~~~ 
lines?" My answer was in . the form of a question because I wanted to trap him into some sort of an admission. So· I said, •T saw some arms flying with abandon. Did they really fumble?" Rockne's answer with that twinkle in his eyes was, ••I never did like double-breasted suits." .Now to ~ost people that would not have been the least bit amusing but it was Rockne's way of placing me again on the defensive and thus closing the matter. 
One of Rockne's favorite stories was about a substitute who had spent most of his college football career on the 
bench. Rockne was quizzing him one day to find out how well he knew the signals and asked him what he would· do when they called 31,22-16. The boy answered, •Td 
. slide down to the other end of the bench to see who made 
the touchdown., Another one about that same chap was told as Rockne brought to mind some of the incidents of a very rainy day at Soldier Field in Chicago. Rock had placed some pow­dered resin on the floor and told the fellows to rub it·on their hands and their jerseys and the front of their pants 
(Drawin!J by D. J. Coffin re]Jroduced tltrouuh courtesy of 11Iichiuan Motor News.) 
so they could get a good grip on-the ball. As the. team trotted out, Rockne saw this youngster seated in the resin and spinning himself around so he asked him what the big idea was. The boy answered, "Well coach, you don't . want me to slip off the bench do you?" 
Rockne could use humor to get himself out of a trying situation, too, sometimes when he had brought the trial upon himself. During the summer of 1929, he was driv­ing through the Southeast with Jack Chevigny, then just 
17""('1 :r 
/.~,_ ·"':. c ..,.."'~~ 
/./ · . }/'. · . 
~ 
1 -~': . .•. /· 
graduated from Notre 
Dame, on his way to 
a coaching school. 
They had been trying 
for miles to pass a 
large speed truck 
ahead of them as they 
wound through the 
mountains, Rockne at 
the wheel and Chev­
igney beside him. Ev­
ery time they tried to 
pass, the truck· ahead 
would swing into the 
middle of the road or 
speed up. 
Finally, Rockne took a chance, cut to the side of the road, and passed the offend­ing vehicle. As he ·sped by, he shook his fist at the driver-a burly brute. of some 200-odd pounds and 
~~~~ 
tali-shook his head 
menacingly and let fly with a few choice words of cen­sure. Then he sped blissfully-.. on. 
Soon, they came to a stop light and, to Ro~kne's amaze­ment, the truck drove up beside his car. ··say, what's the idea?" the truckster yelled at Rockne, ••You can't call me those names and get away with it.". ' 
··oh, I can't, huh," shot back Rockne, apparently in the throes of an angry passion, ··what are you going to do about it? I think you're afraid to come out here and 
fight." . 
One word led to another, the driver got hotter and hotter, and finally he climbed down. from the cab of his 
··r think he's yellow. 
machine, ready  to  commit mayhem.  Rockne turned to  
his companion.  '  
Ch  h  d  

•• · ev," e sai ' Go on out and 
lick him.'' 
0 
And Chevigny, like a true Rockne worshipper, got out of the car prepared, as many of Rockne's players had often said they. were, to die for the beloved coach. · But the driver, too, had a sense of humor and, seeing the ab-. surdity of the situation, broke into a grin. With a shrug of (Continued on page IOO) 
-[56]­
ZEWWWtiif-­
OFFICIAL FooTBA~L REVIEW-1931-Universil.Y of Notre Dame 
Rockne's Spiritual Side 
By LAWRENCE PERRY 
j!l ew 
When Knute Rockne on Nov. 25, 1925, was received into the Catholic church, receiving next day his first Holy Communion in the chapel of St. Edward's hall and later Confirmation from the Rt. Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, he merely gave outward and tangible recognition of a side of his personality which those close to him-as the writer was through many years-had long understood and appreci­ated; his spiritual side. · 
In the way of spiritual outgiving it needed no affiliation with the mother church to establish and define Knute Rockne. Whatever he may have taken with him to Notre Dame as a fresh­man~ no one· may question that the institutional influences with which he was surrounded . there, its · sturdy faith, its sweet tolerance, its philos­ophy of life and living, its ordered formulae of religious thought, exerted in cumulative degree a subtle effect upon a life and a character funda­mentally susceptible to those things. 
His football elevens, sent forth year after year, reflected not only the envir­onment in which they had been developed but the man who had developed them. They were clean teams, sportsmanlike teams, cheery teams, whether the going was good or adverse. In all Knute 's relations with rival universities, with the public, he was stamped inevitably as a man of lofty impulse and · high idealism. Not that he proclaimed these· things; they spoke for him in his work, "in his applied standards; in all that he did. · 
He was an idol of the youth of the country, an ex• emplar long before he knelt at the feet of the Rev. E. V. Mooney, C.S.C., in .the his­toric log chapel on the uni­versity campus and received baptism. . And for Notre Dame it may be said that had he gone on in his accustomed way ~nd so entered upon the dissolution of his mortal body, hts name ~auld have endured there as a precious reliquary, as an ~ncen· tive to the continued prosperity of the school phystcally, morally and in ·education. . 
Why did Knute Rockne enter the C?atho~tc. church? The writer is a non-Catholic and so hts optmon upon 
·this sacred· matter, based though it may· be upon a modi~ cum of knowledge, must be very humbly, if not apolo­getically set forth. 
Knute Rockne, then, had come to a time when he could·_no ·longer-be as self-sufficient is he had been. He had given so much and he was tired. He needed a rock upon which he might be bulwarked and upon which open­ly he might erect his definite standard. He needed an inward solace and a knowledge of the way. 
Year after year in the early morning hours he had seen his players quietly leaving their hotels repairing to mass, and to one of his keen imagination, his penetrating intellect, his broad sympathies, no words were re· quired to advise him what their religion meant to these boys. And deep in his heart he must always have known what it could mean to him. 
Rockne was a man who thought deeply, who felt strongly, who was sensitive to things un• seen, yet at times ineffably palpable. He had given so much ·and now he himself must needs drink. 
There are, it is true, strong men who go for· ward in their careers and promulgate their achievements, all unmindful of the spiritual values in life. No one, at least no superficial observer, may look into a soul and tell what is there; but outwardly certainly these men appear self-sufficient. Why? Be­cause they are giving unto 
·themselves; ta~ing; commit· ted to processes of acquisi· tion, their religion is one of personal gain, the success of plan and project. 
Rockne's life on the con­trary was all giving. He ac· quired fame, to be sure, and prestige. But he never re· ceived financially or in any other way in ratio to what he gave out physically, men­tally, spiritually. And so the time came when he had to reach out a faltering hand for that help which he knew to be unfailing. 
Religious aspiration is best sought humbly,. as Rockne sought-and found-it. The consolations of faith abound in accordance· with what one makes of faith. Knute made of his faith something very concrete. After all his groping he had become definite and the writer can imagine what would have been .. the fullness of his ability to give in measure he had never 
· known had he not been called from this world. 
But we know that in that little log chapel Knute came into peace as he came into grace. Thenceforward the vistas lying ahead called to him with an assuring sig­nificance. Deep within him Knute Rockne had always the standards, the aspirations, the needs that in the end were resolved in his beautiful genuflection. 
And when he crashed to his death there were upon his person and .in his baggage those tangible evidences of the new life upon which he had entered. 
-[57]­

, 
I 
I 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEw-1931-UniversilJJ of lVolre Dame 
Rockne, The Industrial Leader 
By PAuL D. HoFFMAN 
Vice-President, Studebak..er Corporation 

Rockne at the South Bend brokerage of which he was manager in 1930 and 1931 
R
OCKNE'S career as a business man was all too brief last long. He won over his co-workers one by one and 
but the impact of h.is personality, of his buoyant . shortly had the whole depart~ent interested in making 
spirit on the organizations with which he was asso-and breaking records. It is not recorded whether he had dated, will be felt for generations,-..The flame goes out yet developed his famous Notre Dame shift but it is a but the light goes on forever." · fact that the teamwork of that department in the railway 
Following his graduation from high school in 1907, mail service was such that numerous records were estab­Rockne took the civil service examination for railway lished. He accomplished his objective but he had to over­mail clerk, passed easily and entered that service. It come so many resistances that are inherent with civil wasn't long before he was proving himself a great annoy.-' service, that he decided to seek a new field of endeavor. ance to the older employees in the department to which Industrial chemistry intrigued him but in:·. order to make he was assigned. In the first place, he set a new and any progress ~t would be necessary for him to have higher faster pace for mail sorting that wasn't popular. Then education. In the Fall of 1910, he entered Notre Dame, he began to upset the long established routine by sug.-majoring in· chemistry and on his graduation became an gesting short cuts and a rearrangement of work which. instructor in the chemistry department of the University. would result in greater output. That was rank heresy Incidentally he assisted in coaching football. 
in civil service and his fellow employees became actively Chemistry and football combined to keep Rockne·from resentful toward the intruder. But the resentment didn't business activity until the summer of 1928 when he bios­
-[58]­
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931--=--Universil.Y of Noire Dame 
somed out as a tour conductor. He both organized and cm~ducted a European tour which turned out to be one of the most successful individually conducted tours in history.· No one will ever know, however, the mental turmoil which he went through in order to keep himself in a pleasant and agreeable frame of mind. The nightly job of meeting the demands of all members of his tour for room with bath when only one room out of 20 had a bath, was sorely perplexing. At that he never lost his temper, found some way of satisfying everyone and could have signed up as a tour conductor for any established service for every summer season thereafter if he had wanted to but one season was one too many. 
Rockne's association with Studebaker began in Janu.. ary of 1928. He was employed to address sales meetings and, to use the vernacular, to "pep up, the selling forces. He :did a splendid job during that season, so satisfactory, in fact, that he was re-employed for 1929. Unfortunately his serious illness prevented his doing any work that year. In 1930 he had recovered sufficiently to permit his re.. surriing work. 
What a job he did! 
Starting in New York on January 5 and working his way -westward, with meetings held in every important city, he threw himself into sales work with the greatest enthusiasm and energy. He had made up his mind that his health might not permit his continuing in active coaching very much longer. ·He was trying out the sales field with the thought. of devoting more and more of his time to the work if he found that he liked it. As he studied sales problems; he became impressed with the close analogy between sales management and coaching and became tremendously interested. In March of 1930 he agreed to accept the position of sales promotion man.. ager for the Studeb~ker Corporation of America. 
Rockne would have been one of the greatest sales executives of all times had he lived. The same qualities· of character and p~rsonality that carried him to the top in football, would have made him a champion sales execu.. tive. Immediately oh assuming the responsibility of sales promotion manager, he embarked upon a course of train.. ing for Studebaker sales managers which proved emi.. nently successful. Notre Dame men. may enjoy reading one of two of the letters he wrote· these Studebaker Sales Managers. A great deal of his personality was written 
into each of them. 
"If ·you think you already know all there is about 
sales management; if you are one of. the type that starts 
out with a ·loud whoop and pooblah the first day and 
then slows down to a walk when the going gets tough; if 
you think this is going to be a de luxe excursion with 
attendant banquets, wassail and paper hats-forget all 
about me. You ·had better spend your evening listening 
to Rudy Vallee. You won't fit into the Rockne system. 
..If, on the other hand, you are willing to get ri~ht 
down to earth and dig; if you have the character to dnve 
yourself into mastering new ideas and putting them into 
play; if you are willing to start early in the morning and ·work until late at night, if need be, injecting new life into your salesmen-then send your entry in to me. 
.. I want to see every Studebaker dealer and sales man.. ager get out for the team. But I can't use any laggards who are satisfied with mediocre work. Better a few real men of championship caliber than a raft of candidates who will be satisfied if they make the scrub team.,, 
"Here is some inside stuff. The only reason we man.. age to win games is because we have worked and worked and WORKED to develop every man on the squad to his highest point of playing efficiency. 
··out at Notre Dame we have our ·control plan'-only we call it our ·chart of play.' If I had to coach football without it, I would probably quit coaching. This chart tells us everything we want to know .about what hap.. pened in previous games-and shows us just where we can improve on the individual performance of every man. 
··How many times did Schwartz carry the ball? How many times did Mullins carry the· ball? How many times did Brill carry the ball, and how much did they average on each attempt? How many forward passes did we try and how many were completed? 
··on the plays that failed, which inan is responsible, who failed to function 100 per cent? On forward passes, which man failed to block for the passer? 
••Every time an opponent made a tackle, which of our players failed in his specific assignment of taking care of his specific man? When we got on the goal line why didn't we score? When we got Schwartz loose in the open, why· didn't he score? What individuals fell down . in picking off the secondary and' safety men? Our chart tells. 
··sometimes we feel like tossing that chart away and saying, ·oh, well, we won again, we've g~t a good team and we ought to win again next week.' But we've learned, by sad experience, that in competition as keen as modern football we can't keep winning unless we keep improving-and we can't improve unless we have the FACTS-all the facts about every player and every de.. partment of play.,, · 
In conclusion, one of the interesting facts in reference to Rockne is the impression he made on leaders in almost every field of human activity. An eminent physician told me that Rockne should have been a doctor, that he would have been outstanding in that profession. A leading jurist told me he should have been a lawyer, that he would have been one of the greatest trial lawyers in the country. A prominent theatrical producer told me he should have been in that field. He had all the qualities necessary to make him a great showman. As a matter of fact, the Madison Square Garden corporation pleaded with him to accept the dictatorship of that institution. We in the business world feel that he should have started his business career earlier. We were all right. He would have been a great doctor, a great lawyer or a great busi.. ness man but fortunately for America, he entered the profession of coaching.-In that field he influenced mil.. lions. In any other more restricted field it would have been thousands, and millions would have been the losers. 
-r t;Q 1­
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1931-UniversilJ) of Nolre Dame 
Rockne1 Alumnus of Notre Dame 
By ]AMES E. ARMSTRONG Alumni Secretary University of Notre Dame 
F 
OREIGN,BORN, long of a different creed, Knute But Rockne stayed. Stayed at a financial sacrifice. Rockne might have found at Notre Dame a racial Stayed while the several years succeeding dimmed to and religious isolation. some· extent the luster that had haloed the team of '24. Instead, so well did he conform to the idea of a Notre Notre Dame recognized this sacrifice. During these Dame man, that. he gained at Notre Dame a spirit that years Knute· Rockne was given the freedom that made other schools spend generations inculcating. possible his development as a great speaker. He became a journalist. He wrote a novel and a book on coaching.
Rockne was the epitome of the Notre Dame man. 
He was familiar on the radio programs of the nation. HeNever did ·that cheer "He's a man, he's a Notre Dame gave varying degrees of support to several commercialman!" ring more sincerely than when Rock was its object. 
enterprises.
He came to Notre Dame a poor boy. 
But it was his' earlier devotion to Notre Dame, his He worked his way through college. 
admiration for the men of Notre Dame, and his love of 
He was a brilliant athlete-a record-holder in track, the ideals that Notre Dame taught that delayed this sue-· captain of the football team, and a participant in the cess until, when he surmounted the steep highroad he colorful interhall sports. found there death as well. 
He was at the same time a brilliant scholar, graduating His final gesture was typical of his life as an alumnus in the difficult field ofscience with a magna cum laude. -that short letter in which, with a standard of values the world is fast forgetting, he told Father Charles
Graduation left him almost without resources. He O'Donnell, "They have offered me fifty thousandjoined the faculty of the College of Science. His teach­($50,000) for this proposition, a moving picture which,ing, like his other tasks, reflected at the beginning his however, doesn't interest me at all. The only thing is Igenius. 
thought perhaps there might be a c~ance -to put out a 
Joining the coaching staff rather accidentally, his talent picture that might be instructive· and educational as 
re­was obvious from the start. When Jesse Harper retired gards Notre Dam~ in every_ sense of the word . . . ,, 
in 1917, the choice of Rockne was inevitable. He left And so Knute Rockne, the Notre Dame man, died. 
the actual faculty of science with considerable regret, to He had takeri from Notre Dame all that _it has to givepursue a field with more immediate advantages. That· he those· fortunate alumni who will accept.
pursued it so successfully was typical. It is not assuming He took the hard work necessary to pay. his expenses.
much to say that similar success would have attended his He took the difficult hours of study for the classroomcontinuance as a teacher. 
and the laboratory.
Until the beginning of his q)aching success, then, his He took the opportunities for recreation and physicalcareer paralleled that which you would expect fiction to development.
provide for a Notre Dame hero. 
He took the beautifully ~empered fellowship of the 
Beyond the early successes of his coaching· career, fic­
campus.tion would not have dared to do for Notre Dame the 
He took the humble ·salary of an instructor after histhings that Rockne did. 
graduation. _,. It is true that Notre Dame did much for Knute 
He became. assistant to Jesse Harper with more added Rockne. It gave him circumstances and opportunities 
work than remuneration. that matched his talents in a manner improbable else­
He took the natural adaptability of_ the Notre Damewhere. 
man for athleticS and moulded his great teams about the But after the 1924 team had brought a national cham­model formations of his marvelous mind. pionship football team to Notre Dame and blazoned the 
He took success as naturally. as he had taken all else. 
name of the University across the national horizon, Knute Toward the end of his life, though few could haveRockne could have accepted any one of many offers that foreseen it then, he took the greatest of the gifts of Notre came to him and few would have accused him of in­
Dame-Faith. · gratitude to Notre Dame. Three times since his coach­
In return he gave himself and his talents unreservedly.
ing career began, he had brought an undefeated team Notre Dame was always first. through a difficult season-the great teams of 1919, 1920 
Now, as the final reward of Our Lady for ason so 
and 1924. This would have seemed his· peak. Most deserving, Knute Rockne, the Notre Daine ma11, must men would have grasped the tempting financial rewards enjoy in the Heaven of her Son, "the peace that passeththat offered quick dividends. all understanding.,, 
-[ 60 ]­
. 
l )l;j 
0FF_ICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1931-Uni-versit)) of Notre Dame 
Knute-·Rockne,....... Newspaperman 
By CHRISTY wALSH 
~,,, 
7[ffi'ffi .... 
=··· 'a 
M
UCH of my contact with Knute Rockne seemed what he was after. "How about the papers. Any kicks to be in and about hotels. And where could one on my stuff? Is it better than last year? Is it too long? find a better patron of the hotels than this man Ani I too strong on the shift and the professors? Maybe who spent so much of his life jumping from· city to city I better Iay off that line for a while." in the interests of his college and his friends-rpaking In eleven years of newspaper syndicate work I have football schedules, making speeches _and making admirers encountered the leading figures in all lines of sport. Some for all concerned. Speaking of hotels, Rock often re~ write their own stuff, in pen and ink or in pencil. None, marked that when in doubt as to his starting lineup, he that I have known, ever attended a Secretarial School or consulted the Night Clerk. Or when a championship Typewriting College and therefore could not operate an was at stake, he sought the counsel of a Hotel Barber. Underwood or a Remington. Many, although intelligent 
My last meeting with Rock was in the Palmer House, and unquestionably able to discuss the sport of their pro~ Chicago-where we had dinner Monday night, March fession, give their ideas to another party, generally re~ 30th, of this year-the night before his fatal crash. My ferred to as a ghost~writer. The latter practice is not first meeting' with him was in the Vanderbilt at New confined to celebrities in sport but is followed quite gener~ York-the day Notre Dame played Army, in 1923. ally by men in business and in politics. Even by Presi~ . At that time I was associated with the late Percy dents. As for Rock, he wrote his own-sometimes in Haughton and after some persuasion he agreed to come long,hand, sometimes via short,hand. But always his own. with me, to meet Rock-for a photograph. Not long He was perfectly willing ~o have his copy criticized by after that now memorable visit, in the old fashioned Van~ any competent observer after it was down ·in black and derbilt, the great Haughton, then coaching at Columbia, white but he emphatically insisted on producing the job passed away. One day, seven years later-within a few himself, without help from the sidelines. Knute Rockne hours after leaving me at the Palmer House, Rock went showed. more consistent and enthusiastic interest in the on to join Haughton and Walter ~amp and Andy Smith excellence and improvement of his copy than any sport and of all·football players, the nearest to his heart-world celebrity I have known. That, I would say, was George Gipp. . Rock's principal characteristic as a writer-endless fret~ 
In between those two meetings, important now but ting about the quality of his copy and an overwhelming casual at the time, there was a series of visits and ses, desire to make it better. sions with Roc~, in his room or in my· room, in hotels The All America Board of Football was organized in from coast to coast.· 1924. 
One day, Damon Runyon said: "Why don't you go Rock was a charter member along with Pop Warner out and grab this fellow Rockne? He's just starting to and Tad Jones. Never, in seven years, did Rock miss a come big." That was early in 1923. I had heard of meeting of the Board, including 1929 when he sat propped Rock but had never s~en him. I had never seen Notre by pillows with tne others at his bedside in his home. Dame play, until the New Year's game at Pasadena. Rock '·'leaned over backward," trying to give the other But Runyon, being a very wise guy in his line, his advice fellow consideration in this annual selection. Outstand~ spurred me to action and I nailed Rock when he ~arne ing Notre Dame players were invariably nominated and east, with what he described to Haughton as: "Just a selected by other. board members before their own coach bunch of kids." "A little light," he said, with a twinkle, would agree. Ready at all times to defend the good name that was almost suspicious. "A little light but sort of and character of his own boys, Rock was cautious and smart.'' They· won that day by the score of 13 to 0-reluctant when it came to awarding the laurel wreath, against such West Point softies (?) as Mulligan, Hewitt, at the· expense of worthy players from other sections. In Garbisch and Smythe. After that, whenever I heard: 1925 and 1928 he refused to permit a single ·Notre Dame "A little light but sort of smart"-! knew just what Mr. player on the All~America team. In 1924 Red Grange Rockne meant. was unanimous choice in the backfield, along with Lay, 
September, 1924, saw the first article published, under den, Crowley and Stuhldreher. But the following year, a Rockne by,line, in newspapers from coast to coast. No in spite of Grange's selection by most observers, Rock sooner had the first copy reached us in New York ~han a' showed convincingly from the records, that the great telegram followed, "Anxious to know what you thmk of red,head did not belong in 1925 and the line,up was first article. Get opinions of various newspapermen." named accordingly. Rockne picked an all~star team with That was Rock for you. Always striving for class. AI, the same judicious and impersonal attitude that always ways looking for weak,spots to build up. And rig~t sent his selected players to the firing line for old Notre down to the last newspaper article to co~e from hts Dame-no politics, no prejudice, no regard for his own witty and ·analytical mind-his story covermg the land, inclinations. And as far as criticism was concerned, as slide against Southern California in 1930--:-he ne~er long as he was convinced of his own position on any sub~ ceased to ask-"What did you hear about that arttcle ject, he welcomed the attacks of his critics. last week? .Have you seen Warren Brow~ lately? D~d Knute Rockne had the natural instincts of a reporter. he like the one I wrote about the new shtft rule? Dtd His mind was a storehouse of information and he was you see Pop on the coast? What did he say about my undoubtedly the best posted football man of his day. 
· stuff? Anything?" And even if you had an un~avorable His memory was amazing. Rock knew what was going reply, you couldn't "yes" the old boy,. if you tned. He on up at Minnesota, as he knew of the latest change on would just keep digging and digging until he found out (Continued on page 105) 
. -[ 61 ]­
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil.Y of Notre Dame 

Rockne and Eastern Football 
By BILL CuNNINGHAM Sports Writer Boston Post 
TS a long gaze westward from this plinth of erudition 
"'where the Cabots speak only to the Lowells, and the 
Lowells speak only to God,, and it's usually been 
pretty hard for an eastern sports writer to adopt other 
than a patronizing attitude toward those young but lusty 
institutions of the burly Central West. That isn't fair, 
of course. It isn't even honest, but then the spectacles of 
the Puritan were always covered with grease. He seldom 
saw, or sees, beyond the end of his schnozzle. Even an 
obvious fact has to knock him down before he sees it and even then some bystander usually has to explain just · what happened. Gridironically speaking, Rockne's Notre Dame teams were that obvious fact. Properly regulated and success, 
fully manipulated, football is a powerful educational 
force. It is a great and rapid arranger of values. It can 
deflate the most gaseous ego and build up the most woe, 
ful case of inferiority complex. In that conn~ction, if you'll pardon a personal experience, I'll attempt to elu, cidate. 
In my own playing days, I ~as the gallant centre,rush 
of Dartmouth college. (I know ... I know, the only 
eastern teams most folks out your way ever heard of are 
Harvard, Yale and Princeton. You probably pronounce 
it Dart~MOUTH, instead of DARTmuth, and think it's 
a tooth paste, or something because it's got a mouth on 
the end of it, but it's really quite a school and I wasn't a 
bad centre-who threw that?) 
But anyhow, we were playing some little club such as 
the New England College of Embalming or the Molar 
Tonsorial institute. Dartmouth had kicked them all over 
the lot, running up five or six touchdowns and generally 
grinding them into the sod. Near the close of the half, 
the coach looked up and down the bench and said, ··co 
in at centre,, to me. I was only a sophomore at the 
moment and there was a senior ahead of me on the. team. 
I shucked off my blanket, galloped up. and down the side 
lines for a minute while the stands tossed verdant wreaths 
of the wild raspberry like quoits, and then charged onto 
the field full of vim, vigor et cetera. 
the Sunday newspapers in his arms, who looked more or less as if he'd fallen into a nest of cog,wheels, whose nose was bloody, one of whose eyes was rimmed with blue and whose jersey looked like something fit for a moth's Christ, mas present, took his head,guard off-one ear,flap was torn from it anyhow-spat in a fair working model of complete and utter unimpressedness and said: 
••Aw shut up, you big loud mouthed so and so. If you were any good, you'd ·have been in here at the start of the game.,, · . 
I don't mean to say that Rockne's teams were anything like that. The comparison isn't accurate because Rockne's teams were seldom on the losing end, but there's the mak, ings of a comparison in there somewhere. Notre Dame, under the leadership of that dynamic genius, did much 
· to educate the rest of the nation, and particularly the rest of the intercollegiate nation in . the futility of sectional egotism. Moving annually forth from his littl~ (as many of them 
are measured) mid,western campus, with a group of players representing all territorial sections and most racial strains, Rockne invaded the native compounds of the southerners, the easterners, the far westerners in succes­sian and proceeded to demonstrate' that no one section has a monopoly upon brawn nor intelligence. And the fact that he occasionally got licked merely made the ap­
plication universal. . In his way, he was a great ~ervant in the cause of Americanization-of nationalization. When he could take an Irishman from Texas, an Italian from New Jer~ sey, an Indian from Arizona, a French,Canadian from Massachusetts, a German from Pennsylvania, a Pole from Chicago, a boy with Jewish blood from New York City and a host of others from. as widely scattered addresses, mould them into a splendid~ hard hitting, quick thinking, · · sportsmanlike and utterly admirable unit and move out with them 'to mow down any and everything, he gav~ even the Cabots cause to look appraisingly at the Lowells and the Lowells some reason to doubt that exclusive con' versation with the Deity constituted all that could be got 
Time was _out for they were scraping some brother • out of life. ·· 
loose from the sod and I took my place behind the line (the other gangi had the ball) and began ••talking it up, until the echoes rolled back from the surrounding hills. Always considerable of a grand stander, with a loud pair of lungs, I'm afraid I talked a better game thim I played, but I began exhorting the brethren in raw,boned phrases, urging them to greater deeds, hurling defiance at already macerated opposition, kickjng the rest of the linemen in the lower dorsal curve and generally whooping 'er up for 
the landing. 
The opposition sprawled around in exhaustion and ab, solute silence for awhile, and finally the hard,bitten little centre, who wouldn't have weighed 145 pounds with all 
But Rockne's service and his contribution weren't cow fined merely to this." 
There was a more material contribution that can never be measured.. More than any other coach the game of football ever had, Rockne gave the spectator something he could see and understand. In some of their sacrosanct publications, the hoary historians of Harvard and Yale claim credit for prior use of the forward pass. And I believe it is a matter of record that some bewhiskered 
Harvardian in the dark ages did throw the· ball to some team mate who thereupon fled down the sward to cross the goal line, bu_t I believe that it is likewise true that some gent by the name of Icarus once fixed himself a 
-[ 62 ]-­
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931_:_Universil.Y of Notre Dame 
crude pair of wings that would flap with sufficient weight 
to lift him from the ground and therefore rates prior 
claim to Lindbergh as an aviator. ·. 
Never until the Notre Dame team Rockne captained 
in 1913 came east to play West Point and forward 
passed the Soldiers dizzy had the pass been anything but 
a piece of permissable foolishness. That score, 35 to 13, 
was real birth of the forward pass in American football, 
and was a discovery or at least a development, compar· 
able to that of the self-starter in the automotive field. 
It was the· death blow to mass play. It gave the spec· 
tator something to see. It threw the game into the open 
and jewelled it with thrills. Football as the great, com· 
pelling spectacle we know today came on exactly from 
that point. It became the idol of millions. The great 
stadia were thrown up around it. It becam~ a sports 
page subject of powerful proportions. 
It became, in brief, the game we know now. 
· Rockne's other contributions have been so glowingly· 
described in better words than mine, that a listing of 
them here would be superfluous. His teams became the 
symbol of the great fighting comeback. There was always 
a thrill to seeing them even in defeat. I don't know how 
he did it-the psychology of it is too profound to follow. 
The various ramifications of it may even root. back into 
something sociological, but in some manner and fashion, 
Rockne's teams became the teams of the non•college man 
and in the same breath, the teams of every college man. 
They became the teams of women-=---the mothers of 
boys and the teachers of children. . 
I'll never forg~t the day Rock was killed. 
I had spent the early part of the afternoon in the office 
of a young lawyer friend straight on down Washington 
street from Boston's Newspaper Row. I had been offered 
a job with another newspaper and was trying to get an 
outsider's view of· the possible change. We talked lazily 
along until the middle of the afternoon, and finally I· 
stepped upon a cigarette and started toward the door.. 
"What're you going to write about tomorrow?", he said, 
not that he particularly cared, but just in the matter of 
saying goodbye. 
"I don't know", said I, "'it's pretty thin picking these 
days. A real story hasn't come along in so long that I 
wouldn't know one if ,I saw it., 
I sauntered along through the street toward the office trying to chisel out the idea for a column. I suddenly became· conscious of shrill cries over in the Row indicative ·of extra editions. Turning absently in that direction, . I ran into Spider Murphy, a tough street butcher. His face· was as strangely set as if something serious had hap· 
pened to him. 
"Jeez, ain't that· tough?'', he· said in a strangely soft 
voice. 
"About what?", said I. 
"About Rockne", he said. 
"What about him?" I asked. 
"He's dead", said Spider in a tone that almost amounted 
to awe. 
."He's WHAT?", l gasped and then I snatched the 
paper. he had in his hand, and read the headlines with 
unbelieving eyes. 
Over in the Row, a throng that rapidly grew to thou· sands stood in front of the bulletin boards. It was a strangely silent throng. There was even something rev· erent about it. They paused and read, looked silently at each other for a minute and moved away. Yankees are undemonstrative folk, but their very silence was eloquent. 
Inside the paper the telephones were screaming until we had to send out for extra operators. It was .like the night of a big election or some tremendous calamity. 
"'Is it true that Rockne's dead?", they asked. 
"'Yes,, would be the answer. 
"'Oh ·my God!", was the response from the unknown 
inquirer more than once. Many of those voices-most of them-belonged to women. Not women who regarded Rockne sentimental· ly, but mothers to whose sons the clean, manly star·white figure of a great Christian-a great leader-was an in· spiration, was something real and fine and uplifting, something square with the old time virtues of decency, gallantry and honor in these days of gin, jazz and juvenile amatory experiments. And those telephones kept ringing far into the night, as we gathered the facts and tried to write our feeble: tributes to a subject, the majesty of which, we amazingly realized for the first time was in some fashion too big fully to outline in words. I can't realize yet that the man is gone. I'd seen him in Florida and again later in Boston some three or four weeks before his death. He was the same old Rock, back on his feet, ·full of the zest of living, kidding again, and apparently as good as new. I won't be platitudinous and close with any line about· his spirit marching on. Perhaps his spirit does, but if it does, it's because he made that spirit one, as closely as 
his human limitations permitted, with the Spirit of that other Great Teacher who once trod the shores of Gallilee. He was only·a football coach, God rest his gallant soul, 
but he, too led men and taught them the value of higher, cleaner things although his pulpit was only a playing field and his medium only a football. 
ROCKNE'S RECORD AGAINST EASTERN 
TEAMS 
NoTE:' This includes all games with Eastern teams 
from 1919 to 1930, inclusive. In his first year as 
head coach, 1918, Rockne had no Eastern team sched· 
uled.' That was the only year that Army and Notre 
Dame did not meet during the rivalry which started 
in 1913 when Rockne was a player. 
N.D. Opp. Opponent Won Lost Tied Points Points Army ... ........................... 9 2 'l 126 90 Carnegie Tech...... 6 2 0 146 71 Navy .................. · ..5 0 0 66 15 Penn State ................ 2 1 0 37 25 Princeton .......................... 2 0 0 37 2 Pittsburgh ..................... 0 0 35 19 Pennsylvania ... ............... 0 0 60 20 Rutgers .................. 0 0 48 0 
Totals ........ 27 5 555 242 
-[ 63 ]­

OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1931-UniversilJ) of Nolre Dame 
Rockne1 The Radio Feature 
By TEn HusrNG 
Sports Announcer for the Columbia Broadcasting System 
T
HE fame of Notre Dame as a football club never ing match was a preparatory send-off to Rockne's now scaled higher than_ did. the fame of Rockne as its famed football discussions. I knew not~ing of Rockne as · coach. Every accomplishment of the system which a personality and less of him as a speaker . .1e inaugurated at the South Bend institution and which I was sitting in a corner, waiting to open the broadcast, 1e perfected until it throttled all competition· has been when I had a chance to meet him. Just then we went on ~educed to writing so many times, that we ingloriously the air. A score of newspaper men plied him with ques­plead with his followers to suffer a tome 6n ..Rock-The tions and Rock bree~ed home, under a hand ride, going Radio Feature:, 
away. 
Many of the readers probably will 
Believe it or not, I was goggle-eyed remember the writer as the announcer with amazement at his capabilities as of Rockne's Friday night football dis­a radio speaker. His apparent ease, cussions last year, when, speaking for his quick sallies ano his choice gram­a commercial sponsor, "The Durable mar were a revelation to a person Dane,,, prior to each Rambler con­ensconced in radio lore as I was. test, would prognosticate the out­Shyly, I met him. Naturally, I comes of the following day's contests, stammered my appreciation of the answer questions, recall from his in­honor, of his speechmaking and of exhaustible fund of stories some terse, his prowess as a coach. Rock listened pointed joke which served to illus­for a moment and .then interrupted. trate . his chats, and discuss with. se­"Kid,,, he said, "when I. was sick . lected guests such features of football last year (he referred to his infected that would prove of interest to a na­legs) I listened to four of your radio tion waiting with anxiety arid antici; descriptions. Two of them were my pation for-his every utterance. own games, and let me tell you, I 
It is of this radio reporter that we enjoyed them. I think you're a bit should like to speak in order to re­weak on line play, and if you'll come veal to you a newer side of Rockne, out to Notre Dame this year, I'll try 
a side which e!1dured the modernity to show you what I mean., 
of this national entertainment me­I jumped at his offer, which later dium. Coping with its many requi­I went through with, and thanked sites, he mastered it as completely and him profusely for his encouraging as surely as he ruled the football words. Surveying me more seriously, roost. he told me that his impressions of me ·I 
The first I ever knew of Knute were not the most complimentary, but Rockne, the radio speaker, was dur­that meeting me had changed all that, ing my initial visit to Dyche Stadium, and despite my evident Broadway '! in Evanston. The Columbia network mannerisms and peculiar dress­had just been organi2;ed and we were (what! You didn't know?) I evident­doing our first season of football in ly was a right guy.. Say, Seventh 1927.. (I· always have championed Heaven was no word for it! On top 
:1
midwestern football as a national net­of that, Christy Walsh told me that work news event, and, fortunately, I was selected as the Rockne-W rig; Columbia sees it my way. Since that ley broadcast announcer, ·and that fin­first invasion we have increased our ished me for the night. original slant on this score until we That started Rock and myself. now visit the West no less than five From various places-Rock~s office in times each season.) In the booth next South Bend, a studio in Pittsburgh, to mine Rockne was preparing to New York~ Chicago and San Fran­J voice the Dartmouth , Northwestern cisc<r--we put him on a national link­'. ,., embroglio to the radio audience, and, up. Wherever. he spoke the crowds s~eing that, I promptly suffered hee­were sure to gather: At banquets bte-jeebies. If a football coach were going to broadcast and football broadcasts, his material, ever extemporaneous, 
a football game, it behooved me to wise up on what I was delightful. Rock never varied in his delivery. It ,·, knew of the game, and I 'made a mental reservation to was ever forceful, ever dramatic and embellished with his see the great coach as soon as I could. I did the best familiar oratory with its moment<_try halts and continued job I could on that game, but that wasn't any too hot. speed, sentence after sentence. Rock's lips were as fast 
A brace of seasons later I met Rockne through Christy as his brain, anc~. that was greased lightning! Walsh. We were preparing to witness Rockne's new After Rock's boys dusted off Southern California so football pictures he had made for Pathe: Columbia was disastrously for the. movie. colony \vagerers last year, I 'I broadcasting the preliminary dinner, and the whole shoot-(Continued on pngc 102) 
-[ 65 ]-. 
,, 

The Rockne Memorial 

·... 

Monogram Club Memorial Room Main Foyer and Trophy Hall 

The Natatorium 
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil.Y of Noire Dame 
11Th N .s
e ext· tepII 
By FRANK ·E. HERING; '98 ChaiTman of Publicity, Rock._ne. Memorial Fund 
Early last spring, at a meeting of the athletic board of the University of Notre Dame, Knute Rockne again spoke informally about a field house. ·He knew that there were no funds for such a structure, nor could he see the day when there might be. But he liked to refer to the field. house as .. the next step.,. 
Now, within a year of that memorable meeting, plans have been perfected to make ..the next step,. possible. 
Six months after Rock was taken from us, Notre Dame alumni, friends and admirers were organized for a nation, wide drive to raise $1,000,000 to build and endow, in memory of Knute Rockne, the building that he wanted, above all else, as the next unit in the educational system of the University of Notre Dame. 
Perhaps the most important hours in a boy's life are those spent at play. 
.. I am not worried about boys when they are in school, in church, with their Boy Scout Troop, or when they are at home," Rockne once said, ..but I am worried about them when they are playing. Their recreation can be either constructive or destructive.,. 
Thus we see how well Rockne realized that constructive recreation builds better boys for today, better citizens for tomorrow.· 
Knute Rockne's most powerful contacts were with the American boy in his hours of play. And .. Rock" threw all the force of his dynamic personality into providing constructive recreation for that boy. This doesn't mean that Rockne had sentimental ideas on the moral values of games. There was nothing _of the sentimentalist in the man who said that inter.-hall athletics at Notre Dame "must be played in a virile, competitive way with a maxi, mum of color and interest, where both sides are trying hard to win and where it means something to win or lose. I don't believe that innocuous contests between the pancreas and the spleen amount to very much.,. 
Rockne believed in hard play and in victory. But he. 

The Main Entrance 
believed also in cleanness, and high purpose, and sports, 
manship; and he gave those intangible elements, a ~ivid 
realty for a multitude of Americans, and more especially 
for American youth. 
A great deal of thought has been given to the plans for 
the Rockne Memorial by a large number of Knute's 
friends both within and without the university. From 
their earliest consideration of the project, these men who 
knew Rockne intimately felt that a memorial raised in his 
name should meet three fundamental requirements. 
First, the structure should be a living memorial. A 
mere monument to Rockne is unthinkable. His memorial 
should be associated with life, with the constant sound of 
voices, and with intense activity. It should be a place of 
joy, not sorrow. It should be a place fundamentally apart, 
yet in the midst of men. 
Secondly, it should be closely identified with his life work. What was his first interest at Notre Dame? Was it the varsitY football player? No, it was the individual boy-:-whoever he might be-and the way in which he spent his hours of recreation. Rock wanted that· boy to have every possible opportunity to develop manly at, tributes through sports activities. He personally super, vised the system of inter,hall athletics by which the stu, · dent body of Notre Dame as a whole is drawn actively ,.. into healthful competitive sports. The fact that Rockne had a few stars on his first string football squad did not interest him half so much as the knowledge that 500 young men and boys were playing football-good or bad -every autumn. · · 
This inter,hall system that Rockne so ardently cham, pioned, and which dates back to the 'eighties. when Brother Paul organized a football team in Brownson hall, long ago pointed the way to what is now a major em, phasis in collegiate athletics all over. the country: intra, mural sports. This system of athletics for everyone-the spirit that it fosters and the character that it builds­was Rockne's real concern. 
And third, the memorial should be something that Rockne himself would have endorsed, ~omething that would have gladdened his heart. 
The Rockne memorial field house ideally meets these three conditions. It will most assuredly be a living me, morial, the daily gathering place of hundreds of young students, a .place to be remembered by all Notre Dame men long after their college years. The field house will be so much more a living memorial than, for instance, a stadium that is used, perhaps, for only five afternoons out of 365. 
As designed, the field house will be the very center of inter,hall athletics. Here will be the squash, handball, and basketball courts, the swimming pool, rooms in which to work with gymnasium apparatus, rooms for boxit:Ig, wrestling, and other sports. The field house has not been planned for the varsity men, but is intended primarily for the other students who are equally enthusiastic about sports, even if they are less skillful. 
(Continued on page 110) 



S
CATTERED throughout the United States there are approximately 100 former Notre Dame men carry­ing on the work of the late Knute Rockne. Of these
j 
I 
hundred students of the Rockne-Notre Dame style of play, a fourth are head coaches of their respective teams. 
In this year of uncertain contests, notable upsets and 
,. numerous tie games, it is extremely difficult to select an
~; I outstanding team from the larger group of Notre Dame­
~· 
coached squads and set one up on the pedestal of honor. 
~ I
.. There is one school, however, which deserves that first mention, if any at all is given. Little Mount St. Charles, 'way out in Helena, Mont., with an enrollment of only a handful, has perhaps the country's most outstanding rec­ord. Although the school is slight in enrollment there was nothing which could stop it from having the out... standing football team of the 19 31 season. 

This Mount St. Charles college team not only walked away with the state intercollegiate football title of Mon... tana, but ended its season undefeated and unscored on. 
Bill Jones in his first year of coaching outside of Notre Dame prepped his team so well that they went through a tough six...game schedule, dropping each team as they went along, amassing a total of 192 points. 
Going down the list one finds a wealth of other . teams ending their seasons with a single defeat, either head... coached by former Notre Dame men or with assistants who were formerly under the Irish banner. In many
\· cases upsets figured in the dope, ruining a glorious sea...
' 
son for many a team.
'[.: 
Down south in Alabama, Frank Thomas is continuing the good work of his predecessor, Wallace Wade, to whom Frank was assistant last year. In 1930 Alabama was undefeated and beat Washington State on the coast. 

This year Alabama was nearly as successful, knocking off eight of their opponents and losing only to Tennessee, 25' to 0. Tennessee had an undefeated and untied· team until it met Kentucky on Thanksgiving day..The Col­onels tied them at six-all. 
Although only an assista_nt to Lou Little at Columbia,· Marty Brill, ex... heavy duty man on the Notre Dame na• tional champs of '30, played the leading role in that school's impressive season of seven wins, one loss and one tie. Eastern critics have continua~ly praised the blocking of the Columbia men; the upset victory over Dartmouth .was due to exceptional blocking, they say, with Lou Lit­tle laid up for a month with a broken vertebrae, respon­sibility of running the team lay upon the broad shoulders of Notre Dame's great blocker of last year. 
The only loss was a tough 13 to 0 one to Cornell. Previous to that encounter, Columbia had waded through Middlebury, Union, Wesleyan, Dartmouth and Williams. After the defeat, the team successively trampled Virginia and Brown, Syracuse holding them scoreless in the finale. 
Another of the famous backfield quarter of last year making good in the. coaching end of the pigskin pastime 
+ 
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universit.Y. of'Notre Dame 



Carrying On the Rockne System 
By JoHN KIENER Director of Public Relations, U. J\l.. D. 
''"7115( 
backs were weak on defense but. as the season went along, 
under Frank's capable tutelage, they stiffened greatly. 
In fact, so well did they develop that the Boilermakers 
threw the Big Ten race into a turmoil with their startling 
overthrow of Northwestern, 7· to 0, in a charity game. 
N able Kizer deserves a lot of credit for his sterling 
work in bringing the Purdue outfit into the triple-tie for 
first honors in the Midwest Conference. Purdue's only 
defeat came at the hands of Wisconsin, with the Boiler­
makers on the short end of a 21 to 14 contest. 
. Meanwhile on the west coast Jimmy Phelan h<1;d bet­
ter than fair success with his Washington outfit, winning 
five games, dropping two and tying one.. Southern Cali­
fornia, conquerors of the Fighting Irish, were to meet 
Phelan's eleven on December S' in the concluding game of 
the season for the Seattle outfit. 
Attracting the attention of the entire country for their 
early-season upset of the Trojans, little St. Mary's (now 
grown to proportions of 5'00 or more) continues merrily 
on its way under the guidance of Edward ··slip" Madi­
gan, bowling over its opponents for a total of six wins 
arid two losses. ·one game remained. with Southern 
Methodist on the coast, Dec. 5'. 
Madigan's Gaels have compiled . the enviable record 
of 5'7 victories in 73 contests. His 'outfit last year was 
the first team to defeat Fordham in three years. Besides 
trouncing Southern California this year, the Gaels tripped · up California the week follo"wing, 14 to 0. 
Turning the spotlight from the west coast to the east­
ern end of the country for a moment, we find that Yale's 
impressive record of five wins, one loss and two ties was 
due in great measure to the efforts of Adam Walsh and 
Paul {Bucky) O'Connor as assistant coaches. 
Yale trimmed its traditional foes, Harvard and Prince­
ton, and tied Dartmouth in that 33-33 game which every· 
one will remember because of its freakishness, and Army, , 6 to 6, losing only to Georgia, 26 to 7. · 
. Georgia, incidentally, under the guidance of Head 
Coach Harry Mehre, assisted by Rex Enright and Ted 
Twomey, ,(a trio of corking-good N. D. men) bids for 
honors with eight wins, one loss and one game to go, 
that with Southern California on December 12. 
Getting back to Mehre's Georgia lads, the record shows 
they lost only to the undefeated Tulane outfit, 20 to 7. 
The wins over Yale, 26 to 7; Vanderbilt, 9 to 0; Florida, 
33 to 6; New York university, 7 to 6; Auburn, 12 to 6; 
and Georgia Tech, 35' to. 6, loom as one of the nation's · outstanding football seasons. 
Knute Rockne's teammate and football builder, Gus 
Dorais, had another successful team at the University of 
Detroit. Gus has won three-fourths of his games since 
he became head coach at De"troit. This year his outfit won 
seven, lost only to Fordham· in an upset, 39 to 9, and 
played Villanova to a scoreless tie. Such traditional rivals 
as Marquette, Loyola of New Orleans, Michigan State 
and Georgetown were taken in easy f~shion. 
(Continued on page 106) 
\\.! 
·'' 
1 
I} 
I,, 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW----:-19 31-Universily of Nolre Dame 
I 
Credo oF the Cash-Customer 
(With the usual apologies to the unusual Mr. Nathan) 
By RoBERT GoRMAN 
Editor-in-Chief NoT_RE DAME jUGGLER 
For at le~st three years 'N..otre Dame has been the most publicized football team in the country. Through the medium of the press a. fiood-light of attention ha.s been focused upon the team, its members, its coach, its system, a.nd its school. Innumer· able anecdotes, feature and human interest stories, a.nd statistical articles have been printed. Fact after fact has told of the achievements of 'N..otre Dame; theory after theory has sought to explain those achievements. · 
'the sports followers, who already possess opinions which they have derived from personal observation, a.re confronted with more information than they can digest. The result is that they retain a. curious mixture of truths, half-truths, and prejudices upon the subject of 'N..otre Dame football-the result is their Credo: 
T
HAT the Notre Dame players sit around one large That Notre Dame victories are won in the locker­
table at each meal during the season, and that the rooms, rather than upon the playing-fields. 
coach sits at the head of the table and gives them That everyone on the Notre Dame reserve squad, from fatherly advice while they eat. the '"shock troops" down to the cheerleaders, is capable That Notre Dame grid stars are the most modest foot­of stepping into a tense game and performing brilliantly. ball men in the country and never patronize clipping That the players who made history at Notre Dame as 
bureaus. '"watch-charm guards" were in reality big, husky indi­viduals.
That Notre Dame possesses a mysterious set of unused That Notre Dame quarterbacks sometimes call signals
plays which are being held in reserve for .. crucial mo­ments." in foreign languages to confuse their opponents. That Notre Dame never plays its best football unless
That Christy Flannagan .was the only rea( Irishman 
there are at least 50,000 spectators present.
who ever played for Notre Dame. 
That the Notre Dame players merely go to school dur­

That the football men at Notre Dame hold the class ~··· 
ing the first semester; and that they spend the second
offices, run the school· activities, and control the campus f 
semester making moving pictures, selling bonds, and scout­
rackets. 
ing. for new material for their Alma Mater..
That a Notre Dame player is more at home in a Pull­
That a Notre Dame center, given at least one broken 
man than in his own room on the campus. 
hand but preferably two, will not make a bad pass all 
That a team from the Notre Dame Interhall 1t:ague 
· season and will be named unanimously all-American. 
could defeat the average university eleven. 
That any Notre Dame player, if badly enough injured, 

That Notre D~me training rules are held sacred and will play football better in direct ratio to the seriousness that a man who would violate one of them would draw of his injury. down upon himself the scorn of. his teammates and the That all Notre Dame linesmen are equipped with a 
contempt of the student-body. set of wise-cracks, most . of which were originated by 
That whenever the Notre Dame coach sends in a sub­Jimmy Crowley of the Four Horsemen, which if sprung stitution he's trying to cut down the score which the at a crucial point in the game will cause any opposing team is making. all-American immediately to fold up in stitches and there-
That Notre Dame is highly s~perstitious and for that by lose the ·game. . 
reason never schedules a game on Friday. That whenever Notre Dame is behind, the coach sends That any member of Notre· Dame's fourth team would in a substitute to say, .. Let's get one for the Gipper," and be a star on ·any other team in the country. --the team becomes inspired to score any given number of 
. That the present generation of Notre Dame football touchdowns. men in a bunch of softies in comparison with the he-men That on every Notre Dame team there is at least one ·who played in the good old days; that the old-timers, in . left-handed passer who is kept under cover all season their prime, could have crushed the players of the present. until the '"big game." And that sometimes, if he is not That, given a dry field, Notre Dame is certain to exe• especially needed, the player can go through an entire cute at least one ..touchdown play" each game. college career on the bench waiting for the psychological That the Notre Dame squad is just a big, happy fam­moment. ily and is never disturbed by the petty quarrels and jeal-. Tha~ none of the Notre Dame players cares anything ousies which interfere with other teams. at all about girls and that all ignore any pictures and That Notre Dame is granted two plaees on the All­letters that may be sent them. -America each year ·as a matter of form, irrespective of But that each man on the first team and the backfield the showing which the men have made. n:en on the. second and third teams has a hero-worship­That a Notre Dame team is loafing _if it wins a game pmg roommate who answers all requests for information by fewer than three touchdowns. from small boys, mothers, proud fathers, and grandparents. 
-f69 )­

OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil.Y .of Notre Dame 
The Punch Back of Notre Dame 
By NEIL HuRLEY Editor, NOTRE DAME ScHOLASTIC 
T
HE spirit of Notre Dame, that etherial, intangible intrepidity that has received so much attention lately on the talking screen and on the sporting pages, will never be defined.
. I This rambling article, if it attempted to analyze that spirit, would fail as completely and conclusively as did the Hollywood producers or the newsmen who spent
I 
\yeeks on the campus in an effort to find out what wasI the fighting punch back of the Fighting Irish. .i I don't know what it is, nor does anyone else. But 
,! somewhere hovering over the shiny new stadium and clear back to the tower of Lyons hall, there is something in the air that makes you want to yell like the devil when the band thumps out the Victory March, or when capable little Joe Kennedy picks up that tremendously big mega-­phone and shouts for a bit of pepper. 
Notre Dame students, familiar with the method of feting grid champions, revived an old custom this season that was shelved three years ago, when a riotous student body gathered at the railroad station late in November to greet a vanquished football eleven. 
Not since a fighting, clawing Southern California eleven turned the tables in 1928 has a Notre Dame team trotted 
·,, 
i . t 
into the shower,room on the short end of a score. It was a new experience, both for the team and the student body . 
Previously, in the hey--day of the Fighting Irish foot, ball supremacy, the students had many' times vehemently pledged their loyalty to their grid warriors, when in the over,wrought atmosphere of the peP. rally, like ancient tribal braves, they chanted their gutteral yells of faith. 
They enthusiastically repeated their allegiance formula on the Friday night before the Southern California game, when assembled by the band, 3,000 of them wildly crashed through the slim portals of the gymnasium. There, in a blaze of red and blue flares, they roared their defiance and pledged again their loyalty to their team, who faced them on the straight, uncomfortable wooden benches of the speaker's platform. 
And just 24 hours later this reign of raging enthusiasm, they were called 1Upon to ·prove that loyalty they had so easily promised in their exultant mood of 'the previous evening. . 
Again one week later, when a dejeCted, strangely silent, and disappointed handful of 38 players straggled off their special cars in South Bend directly from New York, the 

<.\'• 
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil.Y of Noire Dame 
students were once again called upon to show their colors. 
Defeat is not often mentioned at Notre Dame. It 
rarely happens. The victories had become so chronic that 
juniors had never seen their team trampled in defeat. 
But when it did come, when two powerful elevens piled 
up sufficient pointage to eke out hard-earned victories, 
the students proved their loyalty in a wave of spirit that 
induced 2,500 of them to walk seven miles to the Union 
station and back at eight o'clock in the morning to greet 
the players on their return from New York. Knute 
Rockne's jus~ly famous phrase rang through them: ..No 
team is great until it has been defeated at least once.,, 
Were this the only criterion of greatness they might 
well begin to chisel the memorial now to this 193 1 squa_d, 
for they were as valiant in defeat as they were when they 
smashed through opponent's lines for victorious conquests. 
There was no crying in the grid camp here. Students, ·assembled for dinner on both evenings, clapped longet• 
and louder than is their traditional custom. Disappointed 
and dejected, they nevertheless understood. 
The riotous march from the train after the Army game 
wound its way through the South Bend streets behind 
Drum Major Henry Tholen and the University band in a 
wild homecoming celebration. 
There was, too, the routine and orthodox campus en• 
thusiasm, but to me the spirit of a defeated Notre Dame 
student. body, keenly feeling the loss of two stirring 
struggles, is the keynote of the fall season, when one 
speaks of pep. 
As a matter of record, however, let it be said that 
there were the usual pep rallies, the same thrilling ora· 
tors, .and the customary nocturnal campus parades. Stu· 
dents, assembled by notes from the splendid band of Prof. 
Joseph Casasanta, sang as loudly and cheered as lustily as in former years. 
The undergraduates, furthermore, flocked unanimously to the stadium on the occasion of the Rockne Memorial game to witness a burlesque struggle between the varsity and the reserves 'way back in September, when. '"Hunk, Anderson's all· American prospects were a lot of rangy, untrained youths. 
The students, as a further matter of record, co-oper· ated sincerely with Chairman Herbert P. Giorgio and John Kramer of the Student Activities council, together with. Blue Circle Leader John Perone. They were be· hind the team from the moment of the Indiana clash early in October until the: time when the cadets of West Point marched off the gridiron in the polo grounds a few weeks ago. 
They crowded the pews of Sacred Heart church each Saturday morning, and 3,000 young chaps weekly knelt at the Communion rail, as the traditional football mass was celebrated. 
This is routine. This is what is expected. Notre Dame men traditionally have cheered long and loud. But to me, that dauntless spirit that rushed to the foreground following two whirlwind defeats characterized this much discussed spirit behind the team. 
There is a subtle sureness, you see, among Notre Dame men about their football teams. It's not a conceited smug· ness always confident of victory. It is rather a se• cure knowledge that a well-played, hard-fought grid· iron tussle will always result, and that if Notre Dame does not win, the best team will walk off the field on the long end of the score. 
That's the spirit of Notre Dame. 


OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil.Y of Notre Dame 
These Boys Made It Tough 







Left Guard 




PRICE-Army 
Right Tackle 
-[721­
Zf T 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil.Y of Nolre Dame 


The Review's All-Opponent Team 
By JOSEPH FETRITZ 
Player School Position 
John Briley ....................................................... Drake ... : ........................................................... Left End John Riley ........................................................ Northwestern .................................................. Left Tackle John Baker ....................................................... Southern California ......................................... Left Guard Ralph Daugherty ............................................. Pittsburgh ........................................................ Center 
G. W. Underwood .......................................... Navy................................................................ Right Guard John Price ................................................ ~ .......Army............................................................... Right Tackle Garrett Arbelbide ............................................ Southern California ........................................ Right End Orville Mohler ..... ~ ........................................... Southern California ......................................... Quarterback· Raymond Stecker .......... ---···················"···········Army ............................................................... Left Halfback Ernest Rentner ................................................ Northwest"ern .................................................. Right Halfback Carl Perina ................. ~---·································Pennsyl:r:~nia:.: ................................................ .Fullback 
W
HILE the more ambitious are busy mulling over the reports of scouts, coaches, press agents, ot~er writers, and their own notes in an effort to ptck representative all-American elevens, we are attempting to complete as impossible a task in naming the eleven out­standing men among Notre Dame·s 1931 opponents. 
One of the best things about our job is that with a mere sweep of the hand, we eliminate several hundred thousands of worthy players who were not lucky enough to play against Notre Dame and thereby become ~ligible 
·for our humble consideration. ·. 
Another element which makes the task easier is the co-operation of the Notre Dame coaches, scouts, and play· ers (four of whom are all· American on one team and another) and the Review staff (one member of which, Joe Kurth, is a favorite of the gods who pick the my~hi­
cal teams). 
Notwithstanding this aid, without which we should be at an utter loss whom to choose, the job is a difficult one. In only four instances was a man so scintillating against Notre Dame and in other games that there was not lengthy consideration as to who should get the call. 
John Baker, left guard, the only man to repeat ·on ou.r team after having been named last year, was a unam­mous choice. After the reams of publicity that have gone his way as a result of his masterful "place-kick for Southern California on which the tide of that game ebbed from ·the Mississippi basin to wash up on the beaches of Los Angeles, the distinction we may give him is probably negligible. But he may get some satisfacti?n out of knowing that Notre Dame do:s not regard hun as a one-play star. We picked him last year whe1_1 No­tre Dame won, 27 to 0, as the outstandmg man 111 the Trojan line. We pick him again for the same reason. And you·re good enough for any all·American if you're the best in that great set of forwards. 
Ernest (Pug) Rentner, Northwestern's . versatile half· 
back, was another popular choice. He, l~ke Baker, has 
been named almost unanimously all·Amencan. Not es· 
pecially effective against the Irish, he can~e back i~'l. othct• 
games under weather conditions more smtcd to Ius great 
passing and broken field running to establish himself as one of the season·s two great backs, the other being, if you will pardon us, our own Mr. Schwartz. 
And this boy, Ray Stecker, of Army at the other half· back who missed the mythical teams because most of them were already in type before the Army-Notre Dame game, stood head and shoulders above all other contenders in the minds of those who helped us with these selections. He showed his true ability when he caught Brown·s pass and ran to the seven·yard line against Notre Dame and again on one of the most brilliant open field jaunts in the history of the traditional series after slicing through tackle to elude four secondary men. 
Ralph Daugherty, the backbone of a great Pittsburgh line, wins the center berth going away. A two-year veteran, he played brilliantly against Notre Dame and provided the spark for the greatest seven-cylinder ma­chine in the East in other contests. 
These four, we have said, were a quartet that simply could not have been left off. At the other positions, there was some doubt, but the team is representative. 
At left end, Capt. John Briley of Drake carries on ·for the Bulldogs, \vl10 have been represented in both of the last two years. .Even in an overwhelming defeat, his class was evident and he is given a slight edge over such other stars as Sparling of Southern California, King of Army, Hirshberg of Pitt, and Lyons of Indiana. 
Garrett Arbclbide, Southern California, right end, rose to the heights against Notre Dame after playing brilliant ball all season. He was injured early in the 1930 game and was removed; feeling that he had a score to settle, he battled nearly the entire time last fall, stop'ping every· thing sent in his direction. 
The tackles presented by far the most brilliant array of talent and were subsequently the hardest selections to make. Northwestern, Pittsburgh, Army, and Southern California. were all blessed with men of iron at not .only one tackle, but both. There had been some doubt which of the \Vildcat huskies really was the better, Jack Riley or Capt. Dallas Marvil. Marvil, we arc told, started slower but passed Riley as the season progressed. But 
(Continued on page lOS) 
-[ 731­

OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil.Y.of Notre Dame 

The Managers 

CHARLES P. WEISS 
Associate Manager 
A 
CRISP November afternoon ... A stadium over.­flowing ·with an eager audience ... An air of ex.­pectancy . . . Ushers at the point of despair be.­
:~ i! 
cause of Oh!.-fm,in,the,wrong.-seat patrons ... Chaos the theme and the master of the theme ... The gridiron dotted with hurrying figures, sorting sweatshirts, spreading blan"' kets, placing chairs for the coaches-doing a hundred and one other tasks ... A crescendo of ••yeahs" as the Blue and Gold trot out on the field-all these signify the ••big game", -the day of Football the King. 
The glory of the team has been blazoned by a thousand heralds. But when and where has a newspaper article been written on the business backbone of an eleven-the managers? Who are those hurrying figures? Who are the masters of the chaos? In reality, there is no chaos for a guiding hand is ever present. It is that of the managers. Why does each fan see the game from his properly or, dained seat? The managers are responsible for this be, 
,cause of their careful selection of the best ,ushers and gate, men that can be had. Practically every detail connected with the stadium is taken care of by the managers. Equip' ment is ~ared for by them, itineraries for tdps are made by these men, who have charge of trips. A volume of work, equal to that found in any big business house, is done by the managers. ' . 
Back in the good old days Notre Dame had its first foot .. ball team, composed of several tons of eye,gouging, rib, cracking beef. Such things as uniforms and equipment weren't thought of. Naturally, there was no manager's assoc1at10n. But when someone discove'red that the game might be made a little safer if the players wore some pro, tection, 11 hideous outfits called football suits were pur~ chased. The weight of these was so grea·t that it was then found that the men would wear out all their energy if they had to carry them on trips. As a result of this discovery, someone volunteered to act in a managerial capacity. 
-[ 74 ]­
QFFICIAL FooTB_ALL REVIEw-1931-Universil,y of Notre Dame 
Various students were in charge until Brother Paul took over the job. In 1897, it became a part of the coach's duties. As time passed by and the number of players grew larger, the strain of being a mentor, manager, trainer, care· taker and almost everything else connected with an athletic association was too great for the coach. Consequently he had to relinquish a good deal of his work to some re· sponsible students. · 
The year 1919 brought about the big change. The .. lit· tie school near South Bend" was making itself known through the exploits of one George Gipp. ..Rock" realized the need for an efficient body of students to help him handle his teams. Accordingly, he organized that group which is now known as the Notre Dame Managers' asso·. ciation. His plans and methods for controlling such an · organization are carried out now because they are the b:::st possible. 
The manner of choosing the members of this organiza· tion gives another ~xample of .. Rock's" ingenuity. Every principle is aimed toward better co-operation. Each year 
· a call for energetic freshmen is issued. From the number who respond to this call, the 15' most diligent, personable, responsible, efficient and hard-working men are given numerals at the end of the year and appointed to the Managers • association for the second season as sophomore managers. For the junior year, seven of these are chosen carefully to fill a more important position. These seven are retained when they become Seniors and are put in complete charge of some sport, according to their respective merits. 
Again this yea·r, the Managers' association is one of the most active bodies Notre Dame has on the campus. This is due without a doubt to the efforts of the senior man· agers. John A. Grams is the .. head man." Those who appointed him made no mistake in their choice. His ex· cellent ability and work in the past four years are the rea• sons for his present occupancy of· this position. Joe E. McKean and Charles Weiss are the two associate man· agers of football. Joe, that genial southern gentleman with the cheery smile, has personal charge of the managers and the equipment as duties. ..Charlie" Weiss, a clear-headed organizer, takes care of the stadium. In addition to these duties, Grams is president of the Ushers' club, while Weiss is secretary-treasurer. 
Charles Spangenberg is basketball manager. John Ross manages track and John Colville takes care of the baseball team. 
But one may be inclined to ask, ..What is a manager's recompense? What is his reward for doing such a great amount of work?" The late C9ach Rockne gave the an• swer in a few words one evening at a testim::m!al banquet for the managers. ..A Notre Dame manager," he said, ''is, at graduation, approximately two and one-half years ahead of the other members of his class." ·The explanation of this is simple. During the time of his service, the man· ager has learned how to work. C~:msequently, he can make men work for him. He learns how to handle people and make them feel that they have been treated courteously. It is ·just the same as working on a job after graduation. 

. C. llringnrdner, 'I'. Thompson, J. Conic)', C. Hill, .T. Walsh. · 
-[ 7') ]­


OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEw:-1931-Vnivcrsil.Y of Notre Dumc 
After the U.S. C. Game 
-~ 



Keeping Watch 
By BERT McGRANE 
DEs MOINES REGISTER Staff Writer 
(Written for the Official Foo-r:nALL REVIEW) 
Winds of the world sweep through the endless space that borders Eternity. A lone figure, high on the rugged palisades of Paradise, turns from that vast void where the winds wail. He gathers his robe around him. It is cold there, on the outer rim of Eternity. 
Up the slope he picks his way, wher~ high above the lofty crags -are the great gates of Immortality. He is no stranger there. But, for a little while, he has sought to be alone, on the outer rim of Paradise. 
He had been a leader of mortal men. . Not long since, he had left them to go on ahead into the unknown reaches of Eternity, whence all will go and none return. 
He had been a teacher of mortal men-he who now is immortal. He is watching. Through the gray haze of boundless space, his eyes seek the men he has taught. He finds them there, beneath the golden dome and the lofty spire. which tower above the halls of Notre Dame. 
He watches for a time. A brief time. Weeks, as time is computed by man-only a breath in Eternity. Watch.. ing, he sees them flushed with the glory of prolonged vic"tory. Still watching, he sees them cringe under stun.. ning defeat. He turns, to pick his way up the slope, back to the great gates above the crags. 
A scroll is in his hand. Picking his way up the slope, he reads. For a moment he seems mortal. He pauses. Looking back, the far..off gaze of the dreamer is on his rugged face-in his smoke..blue eyes. 
··Hoosiers . . . . . Wildcats . . . . . Bulldogs . . . . . Panthers ..... Scots ... ·.. Quakers ..... Middies,­he muses. 
Strange thoughts these, there on the outer rim of Eternity. 
A frown. 
··Trojans ..... Hmmmm! Tough blow for Hunk. But he knows how to take it. You've got to know how to take it!, · 
Up the slope. Winds of the world sweep in from the bleak, gray regions of space. Cold winds. They buffet against the crags. The great gates turn them back and they wail off into space, 
The lone figure picks his way-up the slope. He draws his robe tighter. Winds wail. This is sacrifice. Beyond the gates above the crags it is sweet and beautiful. Here, on the far outpost .of Eternity, it is cold and bleak. 
But, even an immortal must give a thought to the mortal men he has taught. Musing, the lone figure nears the great gates above the crags. ••Men must fight, down there. Sometimes to the death. They win. They lose. .They learn. 
••It is good to win. But, danger stalks prolonged vic~ 
tory. The thrill of achievement fade!.. The sweet be.. 
comes tasteless . 
..There are many roads to Perfection. One is defeat. 
(Continued on page Hll) 
They Fough4 ~ock 
By EowiN MooRE, JR. 
WATERLOO, IA., CouRIER Sports Writer 
(Reprinted by permission) 
Your men of Notre Dame couldn't pull this one out of the fire, Rock. The boys just streamed through the players' ramp far below in this great stadium you built, and for the first time since 1928, Rock, they left with tears in their eyes. Your old rivals, Howard Jones and a stout.. hearted band of boys from far out in Los Angeles, turned the trick in as brilliant style as you yourself might have dreamed. There wasn't anything your boys could do about it, Rock. 
·It was the Trojans who took the chances, Rock. In a way they stole a leaf from your book when, with a min­ute to play,. they gambled on a goal from the field rather than another running formation. And it worked, oh, so beautifully. Young Johnny Baker was the fellow who put that ball over the cross bars at dead center. The score, Rock, was 16 to 14. 
But don't think those boys of yours threw you down. They were fighting for you as they never have fought before but these Trojans had a score 'to· settle. Remem· ber last season out· at Los Angeles. Remember how you let them have it. They've settled that score, now, Rock, and the books balance. They summoned all the power and strategy at their command. It worked arid perfectly. Hunk couldn't do a thing about it. ·Maybe if he had had more time he could have rallied the boys just once more. But there was only a minute to play when that ball sailed through those uprights.. 
It was a good game of football, Rock. The kind you would like. Remembe.r the Northwestern game last year, it was about like that one for the first half. Your boys went to the dressing room at the half with a seven-point lead,· thanks to a touchdown late in the second period. And when they came back, they came back like sons of Rockne. After getting the ball, they· scored a touchdown in exactly four plays, going 60 yards. This boy, Charles Jaskwhich, booted both ·goals after touchdown. Young Baker missed the goal on the T.t~ojans' first one. He made the second and I've already told you about that field goal. 
I can't aescribe it, Rock. ; It was sickening to most of these 52,000 people who filled 'your dream structure Sat· urday. Why long after the teams had left the. field they just stood there and waited. Couldn't seem to believe their eyes. But Hunk rushed. across the· field to ~ongratu· late Howard and after that was over, the crowd finally started for the ramps. The boys are ·dressed now but there are still a 1,000 or1• more persons~ in the stands~ Re· member how you felt when Carnegie Tech took your boys that year you went to the Army.. Navy game?. Well. you know how these folks feel tonight.. 
I thought, Rock, this Notre Dame team was about the greatest one I ever saw. But don't think that is a sla-m at you. No, they were fighting and fighting for you and Notre Dame and Hunk but they didn't have it, Rock. won't say the best team won. You know the score. The 
·(Continued on page 101) 
-r 761­

OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Univcrsil.Y of Notre Dame 
I 
I 
I 
I• 
j 
I 
I 
I I I 
I 
I I 
I 
I 

OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1931-Vniversity of Noire Dame 
NOTRE DAME 25 INDIANA 0 
· Indiana each year, whether the team  be good  or  only fair,  
has one good game in its system.  It .has shown this to be true  
by registering some of the surprise defeats of the Big Ten con,  
ference  race.  
When Notre Dame went  down  to  Bloomington "with the  
eyes of the world focused upon it,, to open another football  
campaign, Indiana had not had time under its new coach, E. C.  
Hayes,  to  perfect its offense.  Its greatest game  was  to  come  
several weeks later against Northwestern.  
But to say that the Hoosiers did  not show every  ounce  of  
:fight  and  defensive  power  that  they  have  in  other  seasons  
would be to digress far from the truth.  They call them the  
E. C. HAYES Indiana Coach "I consider the Notre Dame team in line strength SlliJerim· to tile 19!!9 and 19SO teams. Their backfield is 11ot so strong. But they have done a fine job in get­ting together a backfield that ·will give anybody 11lenty of OJ>JJosition a11d I look tor them to go through the season undefeated."  ··scrappin, ·Hoosiers,, and that is not an idly,selected pseudy, nom. Indiana was one team that did not fold up and call it a day after Notre Dame had scored once, twice, or three times. And that is why Notre Dame likes to play the down state team. Win or lose, it's better to know you've been in a scrap when you get through-that's why you go out for football. And if you win a game and have the feeling that the opposi, tion has given up the ghost, there's not much satisfaction in the victory. Unfortunately, no date could be arranged for a game in 1932  VIC DAUER. Indiana Acting Captain "I tlti11k that the great abundance of reserve sfl·enuth 1eill cm·ry Notre Dame through another venJ successf11l season. They didn't a]Jpear to me to be as strm1g as in past years and I look for someone to take them before the season ends."  

and for the :first time in several years, the Hoosier classic Anderson would be just as formid~ble as in the past. will not be played. The understanding is, though, that Once, when little Mike Koken was running Indiana's the two Indiana teams will be mixing it up again at No­left end, he was chased toward the sidelines by Lyons, tre Dame stadium in 1933. star Hoosier wingman: AI Feeney, center on Rockne's 
This opening game had many sidelights of significance. team in 1913, saw him coming, saw the cement railing The fact that Notre Dame scored two more touchdowns ·around the :field on which Mike woulJ crash and per­than the 1929 national champions did in their opening haps injure himself. He flung himself under Mike just game on the same :field against the same team, and as as he fell, saved Mike from being hurt, and himself re­many touchdowns as the 1930 national champions at the ceived a broken nose. peak of their form against Indiana, showed those who This is another evidence of Rockne's influence and might have doubted, that Notre Dame under "Hunk" what a friend was willing to do for him and his players. 

Sheeketski scores at end of 70-yard run. Lyons of Indiana in pursuit. -[78]­
7 ?f 
•
Notre Dame Trounces Indiana 1n Opener 
gz 1!1¥£ 
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil.Y of Notre Dame 
A? 

Heroes of the Day 
The Indiana game was a day for right half.. backs. Perhaps be<:ause this position had suf· fered the greatest loss of any on the team with Brill, O'Connor, and Kaplan gone, Joe Sheeket· ski and Carl (Stumpy) Cronin decided to set "Hunk" Anderson's mind at ease. 
Joe broke loose early in the game for a 70 yard jaunt . to the Indiana goal to register the first touchdown of the season. The way he .zig• .zagged as he approached the Indiana goal to out·smart a faster pursuer showed that this fourth team reserve of 1930 had plenty of class. 
Cronin, shifted from quarterback to right half, climaxed the brilliant march of the third team in the last period with a 35·yard run for a touchdown, Notre Dame's fourth of the day. The Irish had just received a 1 5 •yard penalty and Cronin's run upheld the tradition that "when ~?e going gets tough, Notre Dame gets tougher. 
By ALAN J. GouLD JOE SHEEKETSKI · ASSOCIATED PRESS Sports Writer CARL CRONIN 
Bloomington, Ind., Oct. 3.-Notre Dame's warriors on an 11..yard gallop by Marchmont Schwartz, all,Amer.. in blue and gold costume as glittering as the warm su~ ica halfback and pride of Bay St. Louis, Miss. of an Indiana summer day, returned triumphantly to the Indiana, with a big powerful line and two sets of fast football wars today, with a finishing drive that would backs held the Rockne.. less Irish scoreless in the first have brought words of praise from the wizard Rockne. period and yielded only one touchdown, on Sheeketski's 
Picking up their two year thread of· victory where it brilliant run in the first half. For the time, it was trou.. was left off, the Fighting Irish came through the final blesome going for the national champions; their blocking half _in spectacular style to whip_ the strong University was not up to p~r and their generalship seemed faulty. of Indiana eleven, 25 to 0, in the first gam~ for Notre They took command of the game, however, upon the en, Dame· since Rockne was killed in an airplane disaster. trance of a youthful quarterback named Emmett Murphy, 
On an afternoon in Indiana's picturesque southern hills, of East Chicago, Ind., in the second quarter, and stead.. where it was hot enough for most of ily applied the scoring pressure for the the crowd of 18,000 spectators to rest of the game. swelter in shirt sleeves, the 1931 No.. The second team, featuring a back.. tre Dame machine was turned loose LINEUPS field of Koken, Brancheau, Melinko, with a ~how of skilJ, dash and scoring Notre Dame 11ldiat1a vich and Jaskwhich, twice pounded power comparable to the best of the Kosky ............L. E............• Lyons deep into Indiana territory in the third Rockne regime. Culver ...........L. T......... Rascher period before Tommy Gorman, burly 
If the electric personality of Rockne Harris ............L. G............. Nylec center, grabbed an opposing forward was missing, his bulldog countenance Yarr (C) .......... c............. Beeson pass and dashed 35 yards for a touch, no longer thrust forward in front of Hoffmann .......R. G............. Zeller down. 
the bench, the wizard's spirit nevertfie.. ~:~t~n;···~~~~~~:::::: ~:~~~~---~n~~::::· With a two touchdown lead and the less carried on and the players, many Jaskwhich ......Q. B •...... v. Dauer game safely stowed away, Coach An.. of them his own products, rallied after Schwartz ........L. H........... Opasilt derson sent his regulars back for an, an uncertain start to uphold the best Sheeketski ......R. H............... Baer other workout. They responded . this offensive traditions of ·the Notre Dame Banas ..............F. B •............ Jones time with a 63,yard drive, climaxed by 
"system., Schwartz' touchdown after a 32,yard 
Mrs. Rockne, the famous coach's pass, Sheeketski to Kosky, was ruled widow, was there to see "her boys, score their first tri, complete on -interference. umph under the new leadership of the·Harper..Anderson, As a final gesture, the third,stringers· romped into ac.. Chevigny regime at South Bend. tion and swept 85 yards for the final touchdown. They 
Three full teams of these blue.. jersied warriors in actually covered 100 yards, for it was after a 15,yard golden,hued silk pants trotted into action against the penalty that Carl Cronin, haflback, of Chicago, broke state university. All three arrays succeeded in scoring off tackle and raced 35 yards to score. at least one touchdown and the first string team opened Notre Dame had shown the world what it was to e.x:.. the way for two tallies, the first on a spectacular 70,yard pect of this team carrying on for Rockne. It is safe to pre, dash by Joe Sheeketski, of Bellaire, 0., and the second diet that Notre Dame always will have great teams. 
-[ 79}­

OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil.Y of Notre Dame 
NOTRE DAME 0 NORTHWESTERN 0 
Rain. 
This one word sums up better than a volume of terms about the contest itself the Notre Dame-Northwestern game of­1931. It wasn't an ordinary rain, none of your drizzles or light showers. It was a real, honest-to-goodness downpour, broken for a few minutes by a flash of sunshine only to come down harder than ever in another instant. 
Roark Bradford probably would have called it a .. gully­washin, trash-liftin' rain." It beat on the tin roofs of the press coops, it streamed down the windows of the radio booths, it splashed and splattered on the cement steps, it trickled off umbrellas and slouch hats, it dribbled down people's backs like a dagger of ice. 
DALLAS MARVILRICHARD HANLEY 
Northwestern Coach The field, which was covered only after the first heavy down· Northwestern Captain 
"I express the sentiment
"I have enjoyed .the fi11e pour, and uncovered just at the start of the game when an· 
of all ow· seniors when I .
1mst relationslliv with Notre 
Dame. I wmzt to ccmgrattt­other cloud-burst came along, was spongy where there was any say that we greatly 1·eoret 
having played our last game.
late Hunk Anderson on the 
grass, and a morass of mud where the cleats of 22 pushing, with Notre Dame. We were
fine job lte ltas done during all disappointed that the
the 1mst year. JVe both had shoving linemen . and backs had striven for footing. · 
game this year was ]Jlayedto bring our squads almzg 
too fast which is no doubt ..Hunk" Anderson had said if Notre Dame won this game in the rain and 11!1td. rv·e 
felt that we were ready to
why they weakened in the it would go through undefeated. At least it would have a go and regret that we met
final stretch. I trust that 
tltis annual battle .of the good . chance. After the game he said, ..Two great scoring under such conditimzs. I 
'llava enjoyed playing againstsldllalah will yo mt as one 
machines were stuck in the mud. The great running backs • three Notre Dame teams
of football's foremost rival­which brouyht me i1t contact
·, ries." of both elevens were mired. Both teams played-the best ball 
with a fi11e bunch of clean~l they could but it was not a fair test for either." cut, ltard-]Jlayi11!J boys." 

Notre Dame showed its versatility by outgaining North· Neither team threatened seriously· to score. Both took western two-to-one with an attack that relies on a dry advantage of every poss_ible b~eak and recovered fumbles field, speed, and deception, with backs that averaged only time and again in enemy territor)r, but to no avail. 167 pounds. Twice as many yards from scrimmage, twice We agree with Paul Gallico c;>f the 'N.ew Tor~ Daily as many first downs, only one more fumble (because they 'N.ews, who says: .. Mine has always been a lone, unsup·· had the ball more than the Wildcats, probably), showed ported voice raised against the playing of football games the Irish superiority against a team whichrelied much on in snow and hail and cloudbursts." To his voice, we be· power and strength and which, ordinarily, should have lieve, he can add that of 75,000 drenched spectators, and had the edge on a wet field. · two squads of disappointed football players. 

Schwartz is stopped after a short gain. He averaged five yards a trip~ -[ 80 ]­
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil.Y of Nolre Dame 
Irish, Wildcats Go Scoreless In Mud . 


Heroes of the Day 
Notre Dame's deceptive offense, built for light men and a fast dry field is supposed to fold up at the first sign of rain. It didn't against Northwestern, largely because of the great work of Marchy Schwart2;, brilliant all-American left 
·halfback. He and Ed Krause, giant sophomore tackle, took care of the defense almost single· handed. 
S.chwart2; carried his 165 pounds and a ton of Soldier Field mud 60 yards in 12 trips. with the ball· for a five·yard average, the best of the day. His kicks which averaged 46 yards each time, kept the Wildcats at bay. His average was I 0 yard_s better than Northwestern's and five times he booted the ball from behind his own goal line. 
Krause had the all-American pickers talking about him in this, his second game of collegiate competition. Not only was he brilliant in. mak· ing tackles behind the line of scrimmage and. pil· ing up power plays, but he broke through and recovered Olson's blocked kick to give Notre Dame its greatest scoring chance. 
By FRANCIS \VALLACE 
MARCHMONT SCHWARTZ EDWARD KRAUSE 
NEW YoRK DAILY NEWS Sports Writer 

Chicago~ Oct. 10.-Another sensational chapter was added to the stirring history of this sombre battlefield today as Notre Dame and Northwestern fought to a 0 to 0 draw before 75,000 rain· sodden spectators. 
Thunder and lightning flashed and· crashed from low· hanging clouds which threw down intermittent torrents upon players and crowd alike. Throughout the entire first half the rain spent and respent its fury, suddenly ceased while the sun came out in the third quarter and then came back for a parting salute as the game was 
ending. · 
Under such conditions skilled foot­ball was impossible and the fortunes of the gridiron war between these bitter rivals were squarely in the lap of the fickle gods who thus finished a job they 
had started with Rockne's death and continued with -injuries to Lukats and Russell, rival fullbacks. 
On the field the two squads fought with courage worthy of the best Irish· Wildcat traditions. The ball was slip· pery as a nervous eel. Notre Dame-had the best of whatever statistics there 
. 
were and Iooked Iike thebetter team on a dry field; but the Irish were checked by their own inability to hold the ball when success loomed and paid the pen­alty. 
The Irish· made five first downs and netted 143 yards from scrimmage while the Purple earned three first downs and 81 yards from scrimmage. Both teams made stalwart defenses of their goal lines when necessary, although here, again, Notre Dame was a bit more impressive be­cause its fumbles came at more dangerous spots and because Olson's superb placement punting of the soggy ball more frequently backed the Irish against their goal. 
The red gleam of courage shone out resplendently through the somber scene and there was plenty of glory for all; but the game produced individual heroes. Out-
LINEUPS 
Notre Dame Northwestern 
Kosky ..............L. E •.............. Eylar Culver ............L. T •.............. Riley Harris ............L. G............. Dilley 
, ~:r;m~c!n ·-~~~~~~;:~-.~~~~~~~~~~~-~~:!: Kurth ..............R. T ..... Marvil (C) Mahony ..........R. E ............... Fencl Murphy ..........Q. B ............. Potter Schwartz ........L. H ......... Meenan 
Shecketski ......R. H......... Rentner Banas ..............F. B ............. Olson 
standing was Marchy Schwartz, the all-America left halfback of the Irish, whose punting of the heavy ball from behind his goal in the pinch was as courageous and effective as Frank Carl­cleo's ever was. He was also the best ground gainer of the day, although George ;tvfelinkovich, subbing at full­
back, also was impressive. 
. But neither could get away for the score that would have given Notre Dame. its twenty-first consecutive vic­tory.
01 h bb d f h · · d 
son, w o su e or ·t e InJUre Reb Russell, was the Purple hero be­cause of his long punts, many of them out of bounds near the Irish goal. 
Rentner was the best Purple runner, although his best 
The Irish fumbled nine times and Northwestern eight; effort was for 10 yards. but the Wildcats recovered nine fumbles, three of them Schwartz carried the ball 12 times and made 59 yards, in the· shadow ·of the Irish goal in the tropical down-a five·yard ·average, nothing short of phenomenal under pouring of the second period. Notre Dame recovered the playing conditions imposed on him today. His kicks six fumbles, but on the other hand the Irish intercepted averaged 46 yards, 10 yards more each time than Olson's, two Purple passes, blocked one kick squarely and de-although the· Wildcats' fullback lost yards on one punt fleeted another. · To offset this somewhat, Jaskwhich got that· was blocked and another that was deflected and went off two poor attempts to kick out of bounds. out of bounds after tfaveling 13 yards. 
-[ 81 ]­




in the remaining six games against increasingly more for· team. Fighting for their positions on the team with the 
'·;•:J 
midable foes. constant hope of some day being ••up there" with the 
OSSIE SOLEM Drake Coach . "This year's Notre Dame squad is the rn·eatest I ltave eve1· seen. Tltis is true both frOin the mechanical _and teclmical 7Joint of viezv as well as from the ·1wint of 
view of SJJOrtsmanship." 
machines, ~o keep his team at this high point of perfection cally three equally capable men 
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil.Y of Notre Dame 

NOTRE DAME 63 
DRAiffi 0 
Riding along at the peak of its early season form, the Notre Dame football machine rolled into, over, and past Drake with· out a sign of hesitation. The score, 63 to 0, was the greatest piled up by the Irish in the brief but brilliant series with the Bulldogs. 
'"The team I sent in there," said Coach Ossie Solem of Drake, '"was ~ better one than some of the teams I have sent against them before. Don't think my boys gave up, they did their best. Briefly, we were simply outclassed." 
In this simple statement there is food for thought. It proves the contention of many experts after the season had ended that Notre Dame necessarily, in playing a man-killing schedule, burnt itself out. Coach '"Hunk'~ Anderson had to bring his team along fast at the beginning of the year for the Northwest• ern game, whi~h then looked to be the turning point of the 
year. · · All the power, deception, and fury of the 1931 Irish attack and defense was combined in the '"game after the Northwestern tie." Notre Dame had reached its peak in the Drake game, · the third of the year. It was simply not humanly possible for a coach, dealing with flesh and blood young men and not with 

JOHN. BRILEY Drake Captain 
"For tlte last three sea­sons I ltdve 7Jliwed against Notre Dame mzd tltis year's team is by far tlte strong­est. Tlte fellows are· all great SJJOrts and I am sure our fellows enjoyed 7Jlaying against them." 
fo~ eiich position on the 

'~­
·l. 
··why I would be almost willing to bet that no team scores on that line this season," said Solem. This was a big statement to make, but Solem had grounds for it. Had Notre Dame been able to do the impossible and remain as defensively rigid, no one would have scored. 
One other thing must be taken into consideration. At this early stage of the season, Coach Anderson had practi· varsity, the second and third tearris fought on just as hard and brilliantly as the regulars. 

There was no stopping them-even in the late minutes of the game, they knew that the ·coaches would not re· lax their vigilant watch, that every move made on the field counted, and they went on 'ruthlessly to trample but not humiliate a typically fighting Bulldog team. 

'I 
j 
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW----:1931-University of Notre Dame 


Notre Dame Hurricane Topples Drake 
Heroes of the Day 
The Drake game always uncovers a new full· 
· back or two and last fall's was no exception. Both Leahy and Melinkovich showed their first signs of becoming great stars.. But more than that, Ed Kosky and Dick Mahony at the ends stood out. 
Mahony proved then, with his brilliant de· fensive play and remarkable blocking, that Notre Dame need have no fear about the posi· tion vacated by Capt. Tom Conley and George Vlk in 1930. 
Kosky, playing his usual steady game, was largely instrumental in paving the way for those l~ng runs by Sheeketski, Brancheau, Cronin, and Millheam, the current right halfbacks for the Irish. On defense his position was impreg• nable. 
That Notre Dame had to punt; only once all afternoon was largely due to the spirited drive these two men showed. The fact that they pulled no spectacular ..grand·stand" plays makes them even more heroes than if they had relied on occasional brilliance rather than consistency for their laurels; 
By HARRY MAcNAMARA 
CHICAGO HERALD AND ExAMINER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 17.-All of the defensive fury Drake's offense, barring two desperate passes, was coin-that it took to hold Northwestern in the slimy mud of pletely smothered and its defense was riddled by Notre ­Soldier field and a brilliant, almost ruthless, point-a-min-Dame's blocking, which clicked with methodical precision. ute offense that the Wildcats never saw was unleashed It is a sort of Notre Dame tradition that Drake games by Notre Dame to crush Drake university's heretofore develop, or are the means of discovering Irish fullbacks undefeated Bulldogs, 63 to. 0, here today. and this game was no exception. In fact, this game 
During the course of the scoring orgy, Coach Heartly brought out two fullbacking young men, Georgie Melin.. {"Hunk") Anderson paraded no less than 40 men in . kovich and Bernie Leahy, who will probably be as great and out of the combat. He did this, it was suspected, in as the Notre Dame fullbacks discovered in previous Drake an .effort to cut the power of his own team down some-games-Larry Mullins, Dan Hanley and AI Howard. where near that of Drake's. Unfortunately for Drake, Melinkovich was the first to appear in the contest and the Notre Dame shock-troopers, third-before he left it he had ran rough shod stringers and what have you, played through the Drake team and scored just as well, if not better, than the reg-two touchdowns. Leahy, who relieved ulars. LINEUPS him, was almost as effective as Melin-
Notre Dame, denied: a score by Notre Dame Drake kovich. He scored one touchdown and Northwestern a week ago, was filled Host ..............L. E •.... Briley (C) in addition, was loose for repeated with lust for football blood-touch-Culver ............L. T ••..•...... Blanck gains. downs. Even during the closing min-Harris ............L. G........... Bowers Mike Koken scored Notre Dame's 
Gorman ..............C•........ Robinson fi d h d b h utes of play, with Drake hopeIessIy Pierce ...•...•.... R •. G•............ Olson rst an w at prove to e t e win-beaten and humiliated and a lineup of Koz.ac .•....•....R. T •........ Kokjohn ning touchdown in the first period. Be-third and fourth-stringers operating 'Mahony ..........R. E •..... ~........ Cless fore the game ended, Koken had scored for Notre Dame, Anderson's men were Vejar ..............Q. B..... B. Goodwin two more touchdowns and booted four still battling fiercely for another touch-Koken ............L. H ..... Lindstrom points after touchdown. Joe Sheeket.. down. They already had nine-Cronin ............R. H......... Weiland ski, Jimmy Leonard and Frank LaBorne 
Banas .........:....F. B......... L-ansrud 
enough to win four ordinary games. were the authors of Notre Dame's 
:Some idea of the fury of Notre other three touchdowns, Sheeketski's Dame's defense is evidenced in the fact being achieved after a pretty 45-yard that Drake was never any closer to Notre Dame's goal sprint through a maze of Bulldog tackles. line than the 46-yard line. The brilliance of the Irish Seven of the place kicks after touchdown were con­offense, on the other hand, is reflected in the fact that verted into points, Emmett Murphy booting two and Notre Dame was obliged to punt only once during the Charley Jaskwhich one in addition to Koken's four. ball game. 
-[ 83 ]­


OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universit.Y of Notre Dame 
NOTRE DAME 25 PITTSBURGH 12 
Having lost only  two  regulars from  its strong  1930 team,  
Pittsburgh sent its football team to Notre Dame stadium for the  
fourth game on the Irish card, hopeful that the Panthers would  
be able to do what they had failed to do the previous year and  
what no one had been able to do for two and one,half seasons  
-they thought that they might be the ones to snap the Notre ·  
Dame victory streak.  ·  
Their line, the best in the East on an all,season record, did  
hold Notre Dame's running attack in check for a while.  But  
while Pitt was concentrating on ways to break up the vaunted  
Irish block system, the Irish limited left thE! main line, took to  
the air,  and scored twice.  
DR. J. B. SUTHERLAND Pittsburgh Coach "A1wtlter ureat Notre Dame tea.m. Hunk Ander­son is carryi11g 011. 1 am not asltamecl of my team, for I consider Notre Dame· more power/ttl, if possible,tllan last year. A11d wltat a back Schwartz is."  Pitt showed its mettle by coming back after the first touch, down to make the first touchdown of the year against Notre Dame, and that on a steady concerted march down the field. There were no breaks in the advance-it was plug, slash, ham, mer away for those precious yards until Johnny Luch finally plunged over for the score. · Notre Dame came back and went to work in the· second  "EDDIE" HIRSHBERG Pittsburgh Captain ''The hardest football · uame 1 ever expected to be in. It mi'gltt of looked rouuh but lltose Notre Dame backs ltave to be !tit ltard to be put dow·n, and 1 don't think tltat anyone's feelings were hurt, at least 110t on our team. 1 cannot cmJCeive  
half to run up two more counters while the Panthers fought and  ol anyone· beatingson's 1931 team."  Ander­ 

clawed their way to a score against the second team, large, of the season. No team can play teams like Pittsburgh ly the result of a succ~sful pass which saw the ball come and go on week after week without losing something. to rest on the three,yard line. All credit to Pitt for its brilliant stand, for its courage 
in coming back time after time, tryi.ng against hope toPitt, if victorious, would surely have been the national push over the points necessary for victory. In the twochampion, as it nearly was in 1929. The Panthers went games with Pittsburgh, the only two in modern times, away from Notre Dame and carried on like true fighters there has grown up a mutual respect between these two to win their remaining games against the best teams in 
schools. Well it is, then, that they will meet next fall their section. This victory, like those before and after on the home field of the Panthers. it, was costly in that it took much out of Notre .Dame. Both know how to ••give it," how to ••take it"; and It was partly responsible for the Irish cracking at the end both ••like it., 

; l.· 
; i 
I. 
i 
I 
I 
! I 


., 
~! 
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW--:-1931-Universil.Y of Notre Dame 
Irish Blast Pitt Panthers' Hopes 
Heroes of the Day 
Pitt's great fighting Panthers came to Notre Dame sure that they could avenge the licking handed them in 1930 by the national cham· pions. They had a veteran team and they would not be demorali2:ed by anything as they were by Schwart:z:'s 60·yard run on the first play last year. 
Charley Jaskwhich's great catch of Schwart:z:'s long pass for the second touchdown scored on Pitt last fall gave them an indication that they might be wrong. They were never completely convinced until the final whistle had blown, but the great defensive work of Joe Kurth at right tackle had them doubting their ability all through the game. 
Jaskwhich ran the team flawlessly. He caught punts and ran them back; he blocked like a demon, and proved himself great by calling his own signal and then going out to catch the pass that proved his judgment sound. 
Kurth, playing against doctor's orders, turned in one of the most brilliant defensive games of his career. He spent three days in the hospital as a result of the. game, but he had carried on as "Rock" would have wanted him to. 
By IRVING vAUGHAN 
CHICAGO TRIBUNE Sports Writer · South Bend, Ind., Oct. 24.-Another all-powerful No· What Reider and Heller did against a hostile line prob.. tre Dame footbaH team is well on its way toward sweep· ably was superior, but they didn't look quite as impressive ing aside the best in the country with its ruthless attack. as Marchmont Schwartz, who today was another passing, The University of Pittsburgh eleven, fighting as befits running fool, who wouldn't be hurt by the fierce tackling 
it? P~nther~· ni_ckname and lofty rating, fell before the given him. · . . Ftghtmg Insh, m the presence of 42,000 here today, 25 · While he. was in there-he was rested dunng the mtd" to 12. die of the game and toward the end-he and another 
To say Pitt fought is invoking the conservative. At back were the Irish backfield. The other man was George times it speeded up actually to eclipse its vaunted op· Melinkovich, fullback. ponents. Just what Schwartz amounted to against a line t~at 
They receded as slowly and as impressively as the set.. most of the time seemed impregnable is told by the figures. ting sun, which in its allotted time had · In 18 attempts he advanced for a total beamed down on as _sterling a struggle of 63 yards. His passing scored two as the season will produce. · The pres.. of the three Notre Dame touchdowns 
· tige of other great Notre Dame teams LINEUPS made through the air. The other was must give ground just as the Panthers Notre Dame Pittsburgh tossed by Koken. The fourth Irish 
· Kosky ..............L. E. Hirshb'g (C.) f ld f h d gave it reluctantly today. Krause ............L. T •............ Quatse score was the result o an o • as ione True to the promise that Pitt was Greeney ..........L. G. ........ Milligan plunge by the sturdy Melinkovich, who too wor~hy an opponent to trust to the Yarr (C.) ..........c....... Daugherty previously had received the first of care of the shock troops, the Irish regu.. Hoffmann ........R. G........... Morriss Schwartz's decisive pass on the goal. Iars started and hurried as best they Kurth ..............R. T •...... MacMurdo . The dashing Mr. Schwartz assumed 
Mahony ..........R. E............. Collins could to a seven•point lead in the first Murphy ..........Q. B............. Hogan the burden at the outset. Here that quarter. In the next period Pitt, with Schwartz ........L. H............. Helle•· fighting Irishman, Melinkovich, was 
its amazing speed, as manifested in Sheeketski ......R. H. ·········· Reider called on for his first plunge. He 
Paul Reider and Warren Heller, went Melinkovich ....F. B............... Luch ripped through center for a first down running over the Irish goal, but the on Pitt's 23·yard line. Murphy passed kick was misse& to Sheeketski for six yards. 
Then Notre Da~e, refreshed by shock troops, countered The pass worked so well that it was tried again, but in with another touchdown in the same period. That finished more spectacular fashion. Schwartz drifted back, retreat.. the spectacle as a combat. The Irish continued with a ing until beyond the 30·yard line. Then he hoisted a pass touchdown in each of the succeeding periods, and the over the he<!-ds of his pursuers and it nestled down into Panthers came back in the final quarter for their last six the hands of Melinkovich, who was a yard ~from the Pitt 
points. goal. -[ 8·5 )­




OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1931-UniversitJ) ·of N olre Dame 
NOTRE DAME 19 CARNEGIE TECH 0 
You never know what's going to happen when any two foot, 
ball teams take the field, but least of all when the Irish of No, 
tre Dame and the Scotch of Carnegie Tech line up for the 
kick,off. 
Carnegie, by winning only two games out of seven played 
with Notre Dame, has won itself the reputation of being the 
most likely. to topple the Irish when the latter are at their 
height. This is due to the fact that the Skibos won in 1926 by 
a 19 to 0 score when they were not given an outside chance 
of halting Notre Da~e's march to a national championship. 
They won again in 1928, 2 7 to 7, after Notre Dame had de, 
feated Army and had seemed to have found a footing in the 
middle of an off season. 
J. WALTER STEFFEN MURRAY ARMENTROUT
Rockne thoroughly enjoyed the· series with Carnegie. He 
Carnegie Tech Coach Carnegie Tech Captain 
was sure of a good battle, never sure of the outcome. He knew
"Just when it seems. that "DeSJ>ite tile fact that we one Notre Dame team !las if his team won, it had deserved to win. If Carnegie won, it were beaten som1dly, my· reached tile pinnacle of per­team-mates and I thorouuh­
was not· because Notre Dame (after 1926, at least) was not ly enjoyed our Notre Dame
fection, alml{l comes such an eleven as Coach Ander­expecting a real old,fashioned melee. uame tltis year. JV·e "tried to son sent ayainst 1ts in Pitts­make a fiuht of it all the
When we caught a glimpse of Carnegie's 1931 team work,
buryh last October 31. TVe way, but were outclassed. 
uat:e · our best, but were Still, a lot of tile stinu was
ing out, the night before i~ game with Notre Dame in the 
helpless auainst the uridiron taken away by tile sports­
mastery of the 1931 team­.. bowl,,, a depression in the hills of Pittsb,urgh, we felt sorry manship and uood feelinus manifested tltrouulwut. Notre .
a worthy successor to all for what would happen to this little band the next day. Coach 
Dame's line was the best Ithat !lave .ucme before." 
Wally Steffan had only enough men to line up two teams-there ever .]Jlayed auainst." 



were seven reserves in uniform following them up and It was strangely -coincidental that the first game with down the field as 'we watched them prance and dash like Carnegie under Rockne went to the Irish, 19 to 0; that so many specters through the haze of an autumnal night. the 1926 game with Anderson in charge was lost by the 
When we thought of Notre Dame's three teams, the same score, and that ..The Hunker" came back in his cream of a squad of 115', our heart went out for Car, first year · as head coach ·to win again by • three touch, negie. The next day it was different. . Those Carnegie downs and an extra point. · boys were not saving. themselves. They knew that if Carnegie asked no quarter; it gave none. That's the they got hurt, there was no one on the bench to replace way with the Scotch and that's the way with the Irish. them, but they stuck in there, holding Notre Dame's Their game will always be in the class of those rare score to the lowest point of five successive games while sporting events known, for lack of a· better term, as Notre Dame was at its peak. ..naturals., 


OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1_931-Universil.Y of Notre Dame 


11Hunk11 Anderson Aven_ges '28 Defeat 

Heroes of the Day 
Success is fast in coming to some, slow in coming to others. Bernie Leahy had played two years at left halfback for Notre Dame before he decided to shift to fullback. 
Against Carnegie Tech in· his third year of competition, Bernie got the break he had wanted and came into his own in no uncertain way. He scored the second touchdown of the day after his nine-yard run with Tech tacklers dragging behind him had left the ball on the two yard line. He came back later and with Mike Koken conducted a march to the 13·yard line where Koken lateraled to him for a third score. 
George Melinkovich is one to whom success was fast in coming. He showed his wares against Northwestern and Drake, but attracted greatest notice to the beautiful way he smashes into a line when Notre Dame played Carnegie. He went in after Leahy had scored twice. He proved just as tough as Bernie and was not long in establishing himself without a doubt as Notre Dame's 1931 varsity fullback. 
By ]ACK ELDER 

GEORGE MELINKOVICH
CHICAGO HERALD-EXAMINER Sports Writer Pittsburgh, Oct. 31.-ln 1926 an undefeated Notre somewhat familiar with the turf in the Pitt stadium, for 
I 
Dame eleven, piloted by Assistant Coach Heartley Ander, it was over this same greensward that the Irish trampled I 
son, who was in charge of the Irish team in the absence in defeating Pitt last year by a 60 to 20 score. of Coach Rockne, lost to Carnegie Tech in one of the most Regardless of what happened in 1930, the Anderson· startling upsets of the season. coached eleven played with such fury today that not 
Today another Notre Dame team, piloted by the same once did the opposition ever get within 35' yards of the Anderson, who is now head coach of the Irish, came back prized Notre Dame goal. to Carnegie and avenged that defeat of five years ago. Notre Dame was not long in asserting its superiority, As fate would have it, this undefeated eleven handed for after Tech had received the kick-off and, failing to its coach· a victory by the same score )'ech defeated the gain, had punted to the Irish on t~eir 30-yard line, Notre Dame team on that memorable day five years ago, Schwartz ripped off 16 yards on a spinner through the 19 to 0. line. 
If in memory this day should be re· 
He grabbed off five more in the en· ferred to as ""Anderson's day," it would 
suing play, but a 15'-yard penalty, one 
Notre Dame Camegie Tech 
of the six for this distance inflicted on relative to the game without bringing be impossible to recall any incidents 
LINEUPS 
the South Benders during the game, 
Kosky ............L. E......... Stewart 
nullified all previous gains. A bit ofinto discussion the name Marchmont 
Krause ............L. T......... Fletcher 
punting followed, with Jaskwhich final·Schwartz. Tech feared Schwartz, his 
Greeney ..........L. G........... Sample 
ly getting the oval on his 33-yard stripe. 
running, his passing and his kicking. 
Yarr (C) ............C........... Ducanis 
Melinkovich ploughed through · the in the huge Pitt stadium saw this dark· 
The 52,000 spectators who gathered 
Hoffmann ......R. G......... Heinzer 
Kurth ............R. T......... Forsman 
line for eight yards. Then Schwartz, 
Mahony .........;R. E............. Lewis 
on a fake spinner to Melinkovich, keptskinned southern youth drive up and 
Jaskwhich ......Q. B........... Dueger 
the ball and spun back to the weakdown the turf for nearly half the yard· 
Schwartz ........L. H... Armentrout 
side of the line. Thrre was a big hole, age which the Irish gained all after· 
Sheeketski ......R. H............. Kavel 
which he burst. through1 but the sec· In all Notre Dame amassed 18 first noon. 
Melinkovich ....F. B........... O'Toole 
ondary defense moved up and cut him downs for a total of 388 yards, and of 
down. He got up quickly, dodged a this number Schwartz accounted for couple of tacklers and was off for a 188 yards personally. touchdown, the first score of the game. Jaskwhich booted 
It was his beautiful run of 59 yards for a touchdown the oval. through for the seventh point·. in the first quarter· that really won the game, for this Just before the gun ended the first. period, Dueger, seven points was more than enough for victory. But to Tech quarterback, intercepted one of Schwartz's passes on make sure of the game, Bernie Leahy, a Chicago boy his own 16-yard line, but on an attempted quick kick, who-prepped at St. Mels,drove over for two more markers Armentrout fumbled. Harris, Irish guard, pounced on in the. second quarter, making secure the Irish lead and the oval on. Tech's six-yard stripe as the quarter ended. running Notre Dame's winning streak to 23 games. After two yards had been picked up, a 15-y~rd pen, 
Some have suggest~d that the· Notre Dame team was (Continued on pnge 107) 
-[ 87 ]­

OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-University of Notre Dame 
NOTRE DAME 49 PENNSYLVANIA 0 
Pennsylvania, like Notre Dame, opened a new era in its athletic history with the 1931 football season. Penn's is one of the oldest football histories in the nation; it has a tradition of winning teams. When this heritage was threatened last year, Penn took immediate action. · 
Both to ·help stabilize athletics and to defeat the cry of .. over,emphasis, which has been aimed at every winning team in the country, Pennsylvania turned all control of sports over to the department. of physical education. Prof. Harvey ]. Har, mon of this department took over. football as a sideline to his regular teaching courses. 
But in football, he did not stop at physical education. He went on to include mental and moral instruction with such suc, 
PAUL RIBLETT­
cess that the veteran 1931 team, when it met Notre Dame, was 
Pcn.nsylvania OaptainPennsylvania Coach 
undefeated and untied. The Quakers had scored a clear,cut
"Notre Dame on the day "My only reuret of the it met Pe1111sylt:ania 1cas as victory over Wisconsin's strong Big Ten team which had given season is that I could 1J.0t near a 11erfect football ma­
7Jlay auainst Notre Dame.
Penn a sound drubbing the year before. They had beaten four For the ji1·st time in three
clline as it is ]JOssible to 
hat•e one. I have never see11 other good teams in the East. They had shown the unmis, yem·s I watched a uame 
better blockinu, interferinu from the bench and believe
takable evidences of brawn, brain, and courage turned into the me I saw plenty. I 1'eally
cmd tackliny. Mm·clmwnt 
Schwartz is the best back of proper channels of football endeavor. believe that Nofl·e Dame 
the season. He can do was better auainst 11s tltis
Notre Dame, though, is no respecter of an opponent's pres, year than last."
everytldnu required of a back." tige. Indiana, Northwestern, Drake, and Pittsburgh had all 


been undefeated until they met Notre Dame. Penn, to the Irish, was no better than the others. 
It is hard to say just where Notre Dame reached its 1931 crest. Perhaps against Drake, perhaps against Penn, possibly in the first three quarters of the Southern Cali, fornia contest but more likely before that game. At any rate, it is perfectly safe to say that ..Hunk, Anderson had his team riding high on its victory road when Penn came to Notre Dame. 
The regulars had been given a week of comparatively easy practice. The reserves, still hoping for recognition with the varsity, thought that here was a chance to come through if they ever had one. But rest ·was good for the varsity and you had the combination of a fresh first team, which went in and ran up two touchdowns before the game was well under way, and a group of eager reserves. 
In no other game was such approach to offensive perfec, tion made. Seven touchdowns by seven different men; seven extra points by four different ·men-this tells the tale. Penn was unfortunate in having both regular' ends and several of its best backs on the injury list, some of them unable to play, but even with them in the game it is evident that all they might have done would have been to hold down the score . 

Koken is shown just getting under way for a 22-yard touchdo"":n run. -[ 88 ]­


OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-I ?31-University of Notre Dame 
Penn is Ground Under· Juggernaut 

Heroes of the Day 
There are two hard workers on the Notre Dame squad who have never received their full share of credit except from the players and coaches. Paul Host, who has played two years at left end under Ed Kosky, and AI Culver, who finished his career as varsity left tackle last fall, team together about as nicely as any coach could wish them to. 
In the Penn game, Host made one of the m~st brilliant plays of the season when he snatched an 11,yard pass from Mike Koken out of the arms of three Penn defenders and dragged one of them three yards across the goal line to score. Besides being the best pass receiver on the squad, Host is a wildcat on defense and· hard,charging blocker. 
Culver, injured early in the season, fought his way back up to the varsity over a ncar-all· American . rival time and again during the year. His was the spirit of a thoroughbred and his showing in the Carnegie game, when injured, proved this more perhaps than any game of the year. 

By GoRDON MAcKAY ALVIN CULVER
PAUL HOST PHILADELPHIA RECORD Sports Writer South Bend, Ind., Nov. 7.-Without the guidance of points in the first two chukKers and, just to demonstrate Knute Rockne, the departed maestro of modern football, their superiority, the seconds took up the baton in the and without the flashy tactics of Marty Brill, a son of the last half and completed the rout by rolling up four more Quaker City, Notre Dame, one of the greatest gridiron touchdowns before the dazed and battered foes who had aggregations ever assembled, trampled, gored and other, ridden into the West with high hopes. wise showed its superiority over the University of Penn' Marchmont Schwartz tallied the first touchdown and sylvania eleven here today when it dragged the Red and started the long goalward trek of the Nomads. Blue deep into the mire of defeat. The final sc;o~e, one of Then. followed a parade of Notre Dame backs. Sheeket, . the worst ever suffered by a Penn team, was 49 to 0. ski, Jaskwhich, Host, Koken, Leonard and Cronin awaited · Comparison cannot be made, for Penn today was just their turn and never faltered nor hesitated once it was another hurdle for ..Hunk" Anderson's Nomads in their time to score, and score they did. Displaying the same 
mad dash. Drive, drive, drive was all that Notre Dame did and before the final whistle sounded, the locals had run up seven touchdowns and seven extra points. 
For a few minutes of the first period the teams seemed to be evenly matched, but once the Irish started functioning it was all over as far as P.enn was con, cerned. It was football, real football, that won. Perfect timing, perfect exe, cution of plays and excellent field gen, 
eralship on the part of Char1es Jask' which thrilled the 3 5,000 spectators. 
In only one period, the second, did the boys who are .. carrying on for Rockne" fail to make more than one 
LINEUPS 
Notre Dame Pemzsylvauia 
Kosky ............L. E......... Tanseer Krause ............L. T ... ········ Sokolis 
. Harris ............L. G....... Yablonski Yarr (C) ..........c......... Robinson Hoffmann ......R. G......... Giberson Kurth ............R. T ....... Colehower Mahony ..........R. E........... Burnett Jaskwhich ......Q. B....... Graupner
Schwartz ........L. H......... Munger Sheeketski ......R. H............. Gctte Melinkovich ....F.B•............ Perina 
educated toe that Frank Carideo boast, ed, Jaskwhich booted three extra points. Murphy collected two and the others went to Koken and LaBorne. 
Schwartz, after a few delayed line bucks, broke through tackle, scampered 16 yards and was across the goal line 
before a hand was laid upon the fleet halfback. It was still the first period when Sheeketski went through the same spot for 46 yards and another touch, down. 
Just to show their diversity of at, tack, the Nomads \Vent into the air. Taking the ball on their own 23,yard line, the Irish backs ripped the line and skirted the ends until they brought 
touchdown, so powerful was their attack, so devastating the ball to midfield. Then Schwartz dropped back and their onslaught. The hurricane of the Irish swept Penn heaved a high, long pass to Jaskwhich, who jogged over right into a storm cellar and there they lay buried under from the Penn 13,yard line for the score. the debris. Koken started the march of the seconds by sprinting 
Holding the vaunted and undefeated eleven from the 17 yards around his own right end behind airtight in, City·. of Br<?therly Love without much effort, except for terference to cross· the Quaker goal. A few minutes later a mild threat that ·carried Penn to their 33,yard line at he flipped a pass over the center of the line to Host from the start of the third period, the men .of Notre Dame t.he Quaker 11,yard stripe for another tally. scored almost at will. The first,stringers piled tip 21 (Continued on page IOi) 
-r s9l­
u: .
.T 
. m1'8 >'iiffi•&-• 'I' ·••• ili'.., 
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931 ~UniversitJ) of Notre Dame 
NOTRE DAME 20 NAVY 0 
Edgar (Rip) Miller, class of '25 Notre Dame, member of the famous Seven Mules, who cleared the way for the 1924 Four Horsemen, stepped into a big job last fall. 
After serving efficiently under '"Navy Bill, Ingram as line coach for the Middies, he was elevated to the head coaching job when Ingram left for the University of California. He took on Christy Flanagan of the 1926 Notre Dame team and Johnny O'Brien of the 1930 eleven at Notre Dame to assist him. Then he tackled the task of installing an entirely new style of play, the Rockne system, at a school where the wing, back had been used before. 
Any coach will tell you that it's hard enough for a new men, tor to come in and carry on with the same system without try'
EDGAR "RIP" MILLER L. A. BRYAN
ing to step in his first year to put in an entirely new style in
Navy Coach Navy Acting Captain 
out the the short space of spring practice and a few weeks in the fall. "JVe
·"Navy came of were hard. ]JressedNotre Dame game with first Little wonder it is, then, that the Navy, Miller at the helm, to match Notre Dame in
hm1d information as to 
what constitutes great foot­was steering an in and out course. Navy against Notre Dame, fight, spirit, and staying 
]Jower. Other factors of tile
ball. Front good SJJOrts­
though, showed the influence of tradition and spirit as clearly game are described by the
mansltip to blocking. Notre Dame was Stt]Jerb." as it ever has been shown. A team that before the game was score: Notre Dame, ~0; 
Navy, o. JVe were conquered
licked ·by anywhere from 40 to 60 points on the basis of past by a great team." 


records, demonstrated that it could fight by going out and the game, saying that Notre Dame was intentionally kept holding the Irish to exactly three touchdowns, two of under· wraps because Anderson did .not want to rub it in them the results of passes. .. to Miller in the latter's first year as coach. If you can 
Navy didn't make a first down nor a scoring threat imagine any coach -anywhere telling his team to go in and the entire game, but this merely shows a lack of acquain.­lie down, you might take stock in such poppycock. tance with the style of play Navy was using for the first The struggle for positions on the varsity ·had reached, time. Defensive brilliance shows perhaps more than in at least four instances, its highest. pitch. Notre Dame anything, the true worth of a team. It's harder to stand was in that game trying just as hard as in any other. up under the constant pounding of hard.-running attack Navy is not the kind of team that asks you to spare them. than to conduct that offensive campaign yourself. It takes They will take their licking when it is their turn and win more courage to smash into three or four interferers or when the time is ripe. . to go into a flying tackle than it does to block or carry Next year's game should be the most interesting of the the ball. young series. Miller will by then have his style of play 
Unfortunately, many writers, poking fun at Navy's firmly rooted and he already has the spirit and men neces· lack of success during the past campaign, made light of sary to make great . football teams. 

Schwartz, with two blockers ahead of him, is started on his 16-yard sprint for Notre Dame's fir~t touchdown. 


OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEw-19_31-Uni-versity of N olre Dame 

Air Attack Sinks Navy Dreadnought 
Heroes of the Day 
A jinx that kept Notre Dame's coaches in a cold sweat all season pursued the fullback posi· tion, cutting down one after another of those that had been whipped into shape by untiring work by both candidates and coaches. 
The jinx caught Steve Banas in the Drake game. He had just returned to uniform when Melinkqvich was hurt in the Navy game.· Steve went in and almost single-handed staged a march to scoring position and then plunged over for the second of three Irish touchdowns. the first' having been scored by Schwartz. ..Banas was ..better than ever," said Coach Anderson. 
Not to be outdone, little Emmett Murphy, 153 pound quarterback, pulled one of those per" feet plays out of the Notre Dame bag of tricks and romped out for a pass from Mike Koken to put the game away and conclude scoring. 
These two unsung heroes and Schwartz were the only ones able to penetrate a stout Navy de· fense-they did it in one quarter, and then set• tied back to protect the margin. 
By HARRY CROSS 
STEVE BANASEMMETT MURPHY 
NEW YoRK HERALD-TRIBUNE Sports Writer 
Baltimore, Nov. 14.-A polished and stylish Notre so keenly executed that it worked like a charm, gave the Dame team used a fighting, aggrt:S~ive Navy foe as a foil accomplished boys from Indiana their third touchdown. this afternoon in the Baltimore stadium to give a scien· It is doubtful if a football team ev~r won a game with tific exposition of ·smart football and win without any such indifference and nonchalance as the Notre Dame apparent effort, 20 to 0. . eleven did this afternoon. It was forced to show only a 
A crowd of 61,000 spectators filled the stan~s and saw few of its many accomplishments. It worked as a unit a football team, confident of its own ability and schooled an·d made no mistakes. Against this state of affairs Navy to a nicety in team tactics, concentrate its scoring ability could do little or nothing. for three touchdowns in the second period and then coast Notre Dame had _an opportunity this afternoon to dem· the rest of the way, coming out of the fray without even onstrate the mathematic basis of its· football system. The the semblance of a-scratch. As the baseball players would execution of its technique was close to perfect. The boys say, it was just a breeze for the grid· from South Bend are essentially a foot· . 
. iron masters of South Bend. ball outfit of decidedly diagonal pur· 
Early in the second period, March· poses. They charge on an oblique an· mont Schwartz· galloped around the LINEUPS gle; they rush the ball on the same left wing of the Navy line behind a Notre Dame Navy geometrical theory. They kick and run human wall of blockers· for 17 yards Kosky ............L. E .............Smith and pass on a· diagonal line. With a and a touchdown. Leading up to this Culver ............L. T...........McCrea few degrees more speed, they meet a 
b k f D Greeney .......... L G•...~hompson h d h 'd ..
h. 1 . 1
score, Jaskw 1c 1 ran ac one o a• Yarr .................. c ........... Harbold ea ·on c arge wit 1 -a 51 e·swtpmg vis' punts 20 yards to Navy's 33:.-yard Hoffmann ......R.G.....Underwood contact, and seldom, if ever get even mark. On <1;, simple but·effective spin· Kurth ............R. T •....Bryan (C) a bruise. ncr, Melinkovich crashed through tac· Mahony ..........R. E. . ............. Pray Although reduced to mathematical kle for 11 yards and·: Steven Banas Jaskwhich ......Q. B.............Davis accuracy, the Notre Dame team did 
k 'fi Schwartz ........L. H......... Tschirgi . · If 1 · h 
gathered up five more by m ng Shcctketski ....R. H ...Chung-Hoon not permit 1tse to apse mto t e rut through tackle. Melinkovich ....F. B...........Hurley of an automaton. Not once was the 
Then the Notre Dame offensive or· South Bend troupe of accomplished ganized and Schwartz wafted through gridiron tumblers forced to delve into the Navy defense without a Middy · the richness of its resources. laying a hand on him and scored. This tally wheted the A student of mathematics could easily have become Notre Dame appetite and after the next kick-off they absorbed in the Notre Dame finesse this afternoon. The started on a 52-yard procession down the field and Banas ends sideswiped Navy's tackles and Notre Dame's tackles went over for another touchdown. sideswiped Navy's best secondary defense when Marchy 
While the urge was on, Notre Dame crowded the Mid-Schwartz drifted through tackle on a spinner. shipmen so closely that a short punt of the Annapolis Notre Dame also gave a magnificent display of the Hawaiian, Chung-Hoon, was captured by Notre Dame on saving of manpower. Spares were rushed in every few the Navy 32-yard line and o_ne brilliant flare of aerial minutes and no matter what combination Hunk Ander· football, a for~ard from Mike Koken to Emmet Murphy, son had on the field of play, it clicked. 
-[91 ]­


~ '' 
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEw-1931-Universi(y of Noire Dame 
NOTRE DAME 14 SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 16 
•• ·Hunk' Anderson missed being the coach of th~ year by just 60 seconds." This came from .. Chick" Meehan, N. Y. U. coach, who should know. Whether Notre Dame, had it de· feated Southern C~lifornia, could have come back again to take Army the next week, offers much food for thought. 
The Irish had been sailing along all season at a killing pace; they were still at their peak for the first three quarters of the Southern California battle, when suddenly something snapped, and the Trojans went on to win by piling up 16 points in 15 minutes against a team that previously had bzen scored upon only twice. 
But ..Hunk" Anderson, in the eyes of Notre Dame, is still the coach of the year. How he staved off the inevitable as long HOWARD JONES as he did Is more to be marveled at than the fact that the great STANLEY WILLIAMSON
U.S.C. Coach U.S.C. Captain 
"In all my ex11e1·ience in Notre Dame team could and did lose a couple of football games. •idm· boys never met such football 'I have never seen C h b bl d f th f t th t "th b kfi ld fierce charging as Notre 
two teams !tit hm·de1· than · an e e arne or e ac a Wl a green ac e ' Dame's men gave 11s. They the Trojans and Irish at outweighed 15 pounds to the man, and a line that averaged fougltt eve1·y inch of the South Beml this year. Notre 1 d th th th · f d way. To have beaten such a
Dame teas as great in de-on y two poun s to e man. more an e opposmg orwar s, btmclt of men is the great-feat as it eve1· fwd been in he lost to a Trojan team boasting seven two•year veterans in its est honor I have ever vi-ctory. I tlti11k that we de-1· 7 C · 1 h b d" · 1 · knJJwn. I am sorry, as are 
feated the greatest team in meup. ertam y t ere can e no 1sgrace 1n osmg to a team the rest of our graduating America when Johnny Bak-coached by Howard Jones, one of the most firmly established men, that we shall 11ot be 
er's kick went sailing d , fi h h able to meet the I1-ish again
through the goal posts." of the ..ol ·timers" in ones rst year at t e ead of a team. next year." 
Was it his fault that two of his best backs, Melinko· about to finish their U. S. C. careers, played ball that up· vich and Koken, were injured and unable to play in this held the worthiest traditions of th~ir school. game when they were most needed. Did anyone in that If there.was any team Rockne might have chosen to lose crowd of 52,000 howling fanatics think as the fourth to, it would have been Southern California· because of his quarter opened that any team in the world, even as fine warm friendship with Howard Jones. a team as Southern California's, could overcome a 14· The Notre Dame dressing room after the game pre· point advantage after being repulsed for 45 ·minutes of sented a scene that in itself was enough to offset the sting one of the most gruelling games in history? · of defeat in. the hearts of Notre Dame followers. One 
These are not excuses. None are needed. Southern writer after the game mentioned the fact that newspaper· California had a truly great team on ·Cartier field sod the men· filed some 750,000 words but that none .. carried day it played Notre Dame. Coach Jones played his cards more freight than these: ·Notre Dame showed today that like a master; the Trojan warriors, many of them just it had not forgotten how to lose., , · 



It's Schwartz again-sweeping his own right end for eight yards. -[ 92 ]­
'¥t 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-19,31-University of Nolre Dame 
Inspired Trojans End Irish ·Reign 

Heroes of the Day 
Undisputed claims to all-American recogni­tion were made by two Notre Dame stalwarts who were greater in defeat, if possible," than they had ever been in victory. 
Marchy Schwartz went into the .Southern California game fully aware that he would be called upon to play the full 60 minutes because his understudy, Mike Kokcn had been injured the week before. But, without sparing himself, he ran, blocked, passed, kicked, tackled, and otherwise carried on as Notre Dame fans had come to expect him to perform. 
Joe Kurth played an inspirational game from the opening kickoff until Coach Anderson saw fit to relieve him in the late minutes.· Most of Schwartz's long gains were through his position, the Trojans failed to register a single advance through his position, he blocked Baker's first at• tempted conversion after touchdown, he recov­ered Musick's fumble on the three-yard line in the first quarter, and he was down on almost every punt to make the tackle. 
By GEORGE KIRKSEY UNITED PRESS Staff Correspondent 

Notre Dame Stadium, Nov. 21.-Notre Dame's temple of tr~umph collapsed today in the dying moments of one of the greatest football games ever played-caved i~ be, fore an irresistible last period rally which gave Southern California a 16 to 14 victory over the Fighting Irish. 
The last team to beat Notre Dame was also the first to stop the Irish after 2) straight victories on the gridiron since 1928 when the Trojans triumphed, 27 to 14. 
Trailing 14 to 0 at the start of the final period, South, ern California cam·e back with ·an indomitable drive that swept Notre Dame ·from the very precipice of victory to 
the first defeat it has known in three 
years of gridiron warfare. 
With 55,000 spectators-the largest crowd that ever saw a football game at Notre Dame-standing on their feet and cheering madly as they gazed down on a sight that rarely has been enacted on any gridiron, the Trojans smashed, slashed and passed their way to two touchdowns and a field goal in less than 15 minutes of play. 
It was Johnny Baker's magnificent place. kick from Notre Dame's 24-yard line in the last minute and a half of play which supplied . Southern Calif or, nia 's march of victory after the Tro, jan's cause seemed hopeless a short while before. 
· 
LINEUPS 
Notre Danie So. Calif. 
Kosky ............L. E. . ....... Sparling Culver --·--··-----L. T. ··------·---Brown Harris ·---···----L. G. ....Rosenberg Yarr (C) .......... C. Wil:iamson(C) Hoffmann ......R. G. . ......... St~vens Kurth -·--------·--·R· T. . ........... Smith DeVore ------·---R· E ... .-... Arbelbide Jaskwhich ......Q. B........... Shaver Schwartz ---....L. H......... Mallory Sheeketski ......R. H......... Pinckert Banas ..............F. B........... Musick 
With Notre Dame leading, 14 to 13, and the seconds ticking away, the Trojans drove deep in Irish territory. On third down, with eight yards to go, Baker dropped back out of the line, and with Orville Mohler, Southern California's dynamic quarterback, holding the ball, place, kicked a perfect goal. . 
It. was· justice come home to roost, for Baker's first at, tempt to kick goal after touchdown was blocked. It had seemed that for the fourth time in the six years of com, petition between the two schools, Notre Dame was to win by the margin of a point after touchdown. 
Southern California was thoroughly beaten until the 
_.. 
last few minutes of the third period. The Trojans had I' combined three penalties on Notre Dame to advance to ! the 2,yard line early in the first period, but they were outplayed over the rest of the route-that is until they gathered their. forces for their last surge which ripped Notre Dame's defense to ribbons in the final period. 
After: making first down on Notre Dame's 2,yard line 
in the first period, Jim Musick, South, ern California fullback, fumbled and the ball was recovered by Joe Kurth, Notre Dame right tackle, who played an all-America game until he was taken out in the ·final period. 
Notre Dame was halted briefly.· Schwartz punted out o~ California's 11,yard line. Mohler's return kick traveled to Notre Dame's. 45,yard line, and then the Irish began the sweep to their first score. · 
Steve Banas, Irish fullback, ripped off 13 yards. Schwartz passed 26 yards to Charley Jaskwhich, who was downed on the Trojan's 17,yard line. Schwartz picked up a yard. Ray Bran, 
cheau, reserve right halfback, gained five yards. Schwartz slashed off the Trojan's left side for seven yards and first down on the four-yard line. Then Banas plunged to the one,yard line. On the succeeding play, Banas dived over a mass of players for the touchdown. With only a min, ute .and a half left to play in the first half, Jaskwhich kicked goal and Notre Dame led, 7 to 0. 
(Continued on .page 10-n 
-[ 93 ]­
1& 

MAJ. RALPH SASSE Army Coach 
! '.'Tile Anny-Notre Da.me uame i1~ our OJJi'llion is tile 
I 
l football classic of the East. This year's uame was no exce}Jtion. West Poi11t feels 
that it faced 011e of theI most couraueous mul uam­est teams which ever repre­l se11ted Notre Dame. TJ7e 1·ealize that the terr1~jic
I 
schedule did not 11ermit the team to be at its 11eak for 
Army." ' 
I 
OFFICIAL FoOTBALL REVIEW~1931-Universil.Y of Notre Dame 


NOTRE DAME 0 ARMY 12 
At the close of the 1930 football season, the late Knute Rockne said, "We shall probably lose two games next year. You can't lose men like Carideo, Mullins, and Brill in the }:,ackfield and linemen like Conley, Metzger, and Kassis and not 
feel it.,, · As Notre Dame swept on through its early games, hit the toughest teams in the East in stride and won, and then went on only to lose by two points to Southern California, the critics attributed Rockne's statement to strategy. Even with Rockne gone and with "Hunk,, Anderson carrying on, everyone was confident that the Irish would bounce right back and push Army all over the field at will. They failed to take into consideration ma_ny things. First, the Army,Notre Dame series is the oldest traditional football series in Notre Dame history, at least when teams are consid, ered that are on Notre Dame's schedule consistently year after year and not those who are played for two or three years and then dropped_ for a decade and put back on. And anything can happen when tradition is called upon. What would the college novelists do if this were not so? True, Notre· Dame had beaten Pitt by two touchdowns and the Panthers ·had defeated Army by four seven,pointers. But 
the Irish had beaten Pitt through the air and Pitt had
:[ 
beaten Army by the same method. Three of the best
l 
. i lines in the country were not taken into consideration in 
''l pre,game forecasts. 
-1 Notre Dame had just received a heart,breaking set, back in its hardest game of the year with Southern Cali, fornia. Army. had played a "breather., The psychol, ogy of Notre Dame's untouched victory string had been broken; Army's hope were higher than ever.
i 
The Irish had been called upon week after week to( carry on for Rockne, to try despite an injury jinx that 
I 
1 
' 
I 
I· 

JOHN PRICE Army Captain 
"Notre Dame's 1931 team is a worthy successor to its 1wedeccessors, alert, smart and with a powe1·/ul de­fensive line . .1 We shall al­ways remember our oame at Yankee Stndiwn as one in 1vltich SJJortsmanship cilamcterislic of the Notre Dame-Ar·my se1·ies was most evident." · 
swept back after back out of a none too experienced set of ball,carriers, to maintain the clip set· by the two pre, 
vious teams . 
Finally, people had come to believe that_ Notre Dame was some sort of a machine, not a group of young men whose emotional capacities had been taxed to the limit for eight long weeks and who finally must "spill over.,, 
When Notre Dame's . early chances to score were stopped, the battered,. tired, and bruised sons of Notre Dame for all their courage could simply not make them, selves go any more. They had given everything. 
Big Ed Krause throws Kilday out of bounds after a short gain. 


OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universit.Y of Notre Dame 
•



Army Blanks Notre Dame 1n Upset 
Heroes of the Day 
Two boys from Washington, the only ones on the Notre Dame squad, closed their careers gloriously on the muddy turf of Yankee stadium against Notre Dame's most respected foe. 
Capt. Tommy Yarr, center, was in the game the full route and played the same heads•up game that distinguished him in 1930 in the opening game when he was first striving for recognition. He had been a wild, care•free sort of boy when elected captain, but the responsi· bilities of the position sobered him and brought him into a kind of manhood that all of us would like to enjoy. Rugged and genial, he in• spired the men to fight against Army until the closing whistle. His courage in his last game was typical of his play all season. 
And everything said about Tommy Yarr goes for Frank Nordy Hoffmann, who played right next to him. Hoffmann was slowed up in the last three games by torn ligaments in his knee. When the Army game came, it was doubted whether he would be able to play. But play he did until finally he was carried from the field. 
By GRANTLAND RICE (Reprinted from the BALTIMORE SuN) 
Yankee Stadium, New York, Nov. 28.__:_A ripping, line before he was brought to earth. tearing Army team, full of fight and flame, struck No· Stecker then raced around Notre Dame's right end for tre 'Dame today with the sweep of a cyclone. six yards and a moment later Kilday hammered his way 
This Army team beat the South Bend invaders, 12 to-across the line. Stecker failed at goal, but '1,500 cadets 0, as 80,000 sat through a swirling snowstorm during the were having a young riot. first half of the bitter battle to get the shock of their It was arou.nd the middle of the second period before lives. Notre Dame made her first down, and then Schwartz 
The Army won the game on two great plays. The had to travel 11 yards with little help, fighting his way first was a long pass from Brown to Stecker in the first along. quarter that picked up 58 yards and led to the first touch· But the big smash came in the fourth period on the down. The second ·deadly thrust that found Notre Dame's greatest run of the year, one of the greatest I've ever heart came in the final quarter when seen on any football field. With the the brilliant Stecker, the big star of the ball on Army's 30·yard line, Ray afternoon, swept_ around Notre Dame's Stecker struck just outside of Notre right end for· 70 yards and the second LINEUPS Dame's right tackle. Able blocking got touchdown. Notre Dame Army the fleet Army back by the line of 
After these two great offensive Kosky ............L. E............... King scrimmage, and then he put on a run· plays, the Army defense knocked No· Culver ............L. T ....... Price (C) ning show that no one will ever for· tre Dame's attack ·cockeyed and__ lop· Harris ............L. G ..... Summerfelt get. · 
.. Yarr (C) ............ C ........... _. ... Evans sided all afternoon. Ariny tacklers Hoffmann .....R. G............... Trice He swept by two South Bend tac• .. ripped Notre.. Dame's blocking system Kurth ..............R. T ............. Suarez klers and then swerved to the left. wide open, and then drove the ball car· Mahony ..........R. E......... Kopcsak Here he stiff·armed another tackler in rier to earth with a force that often Jaskwhich ......Q. B........... Carver green, half stumbl~d, recovered his bal· left him dazed and half stunned, far Schwartz ........L. H ......... Stecker ance and picked up speed again. Once back of his own line. Cronin ............R. H........... Brown more he seemed to be cornered and .The Army struck with a deadly Banas ..............F. B ............. Kilday collared with two men barring the 
ferocity all through the afternoon, road, but he stiff·armed anot.her and through the drifting sno.wflakes and then outran the last man between him 
'I 
later on through the heavy shadows that turned the field and the Irish goaL­
into the mist of twilight. · For 70 yards he seemed to run through or over more The two Army touchdown plays were among the finest than half the Notre Dame team until he finally crossed of the year. They had the blood of the big crowd run· the line for the second score. There were at least three 
'! 
ning warm even in winter weather. The first killing moments during this 70·yard sweep when Stecker seemed blow came early in the first period. Brown, the young to have no chance to make any further headway. But he Army star, dropped back as if to kick. In place of this used everything a great broken·field runner needs to clear he threw a downfield pass to Ray Stecker, who took the the way, until he was safe across the line with the ball 
:I 
ball' at blazing speed and ran to Notre Dame's seven·yard game in his muddy arms. (Continued on pnge Ill) 
-[ 91 ]­



I' 
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEw-1931-Universil.Y of N olre Da;,e 
l 
l 
l 
l 
J 
j 
I 
AN APPRECIATION 
Knutc Rockne was the man who made the first Official Football Review possible. Not only did his great teams in the· early days of his coaching career arouse the interest that would make the sale of the book great enough to cover the expenses of production, but he conceived the idea of such a book and appointed the men to publish, edit, and manage it. · 
Now the Review, continuing without Rockne, makes its gesture or recognition, all too unworthy, to the memory of this great friend. In these pages, the staff has tried accurately to portray the many angles of Rockne's kaleidoscopic career. Others have written his life and his autobiography has been published. The Review has tried to sum up his activities at the glorious height of his career, at the same time doing him honor. 
Many friends of Notre Dame made this book possible. First, we want to thank the patrons, advertisers, and buyers of the book who made sacrifices during a time of depression to help in the financing of the book. 
Many of the country's best known writers and leaders in other fields gave willingly of their time and talents to make the editorial content of the book what it is. The Review. unable to give them anything else in return, offers them its sincere thanks and its appreciation of the time, effort, and trouble their contributions cost them. · 
Paul D. Hoffmann, vice-president of the Studebaker corporation which recently announced its new Rockne six; Ted Husing, Columbia Broadcasting System's crack sports announcer; Pat Flanagan, a member of the Columbia family with WBBM, Chicago; the Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C. S. C., president of the university; Jesse C. Harper, director of athletics; Coach "Hunk" Anderson, Capt. Tommy Yarr, and James E. Armstrong, Notre Dame alumni secretary, all willingly contributed to the success of the Review by turning their other talents to writing. 
Fcg Murray, United Features' great sports cartoonist, again responded eagerly to our· request that he .be represented with us again. Werner Laufer, NEA Service artist, made a like response. 
So many famous writers offered their services that we do not know where nor how to begin thanking them. Perhaps, charity beginning at home, we should thank Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune, Rockne's "first publicity man,· who sketched for the Review the picture of Rockne's early days on the campus. 
Warren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago Herald and Examiner, made his annual contribution, a resume of Rockne's relationship with other coaches in the country. Christy Walsh, head of the syndicate for which Rockne wrote, took time in the midst of his pressing duties of the late football season to show that Rockne could have been as great a newspaperman as he was in the coaching field. 
Lawrence Perry, whose previous articles on the spiritual something behind Notre Dame prompted us to ask him to write a special story for this year's edition, although not a Catholic, describes brilliantly Rockne's spiritual side. Frank E. Hering, a member of the fold at Notre Dame, chairman of publicity for the Rockne memorial fund, and past president of the Notre Dame alumni association, took time during the middle of the memorial drive to pen his vivid description of the field house being erected in Rockne's memory. 
_Rockne's connection with Eastern football is shown in most scintillating form by Bill Cunningham, Dart· mouth's all-American center of a few years back. George Trevor, another of the outstanding writers of the sea• board with the New York Sun gave permission to the Review to reprint his admirable article, written just after 
Rockne's death. 
Grantland Rice, unable to write a special story because of his many more exacting duties during the foot· ball season, gladly gave permission to reprint his brilliant story on the Army game and his introductory. poem. Two representatives of Iowa papers, no less able because of the fact that they arc not in larger . cities, are included for the interesting expression of their reaction to the Southern California game. They. are Bert McGrane of the Des Moines Register and Edwin Moore, Jr., of the Waterloo Courier. 
To the following writers whose stories we judged the best written on each game,_ we are also indebted for their kind permission to reprint their works: Alan· Gould, Associated Press; Francis Wallace, Notre Dame graduate with the New York Daily News; Harry MacNamara and Jack Elder, the latter a former Notre Dame· star, of the Chicago Herald and Examiner; Gordon Mackay, Philadelphia Record; Irving Va'!ghan, Chicago . 'Tribune; Harry Cross, New York Herald-Tribune; and George Kirksey, United Press. 
The following c~mpus writers, who show such encouraging promise of future renown in their Review articles, also merit our warmest thanks. Robert E. Gorman, editor, and Joseph Lopker, art editor, Notre Dame Juggler; Neil C. Hurley, editor Notre Dame Scholastic; John A. Kiener, director of public relations; William Carr, James McFceley, Walter Kennedy, George Belting, J. A. McElligott, and Edward Brennan compose our staff of loyal campus contributors. 
To the following athletic publicity directors we arc also indebted for getting from their. coaches and captains the statements which embellish the pages of the st>ction. devoted to games, as well as.-sending us the pictures of these men: Frank R. Elliott, Indiana; Walter Paulison, Northwestern; E. C .. Lyhon, Drake; Charles Kenny, Pittsburgh; Joseph T. Labrum, Pennsylvania; Max E. Hannum, Carnegie Tech; Lieut. Comm. R. L. Hall, U. S. C., Navy; Alfred F. Wesson, Southern California; and Capt. W. H. Wells, Army.. Needless to say, we thank the coaches and captains themselves for making these utterances when busily concerned with their next week's games. · 
We also wish to thank James Kearns, sports editor of the Notre· Dame Scholastic for ·his help during the season. -J. S. P. 
-[ 96 ]­

OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEw-1931-Universil.Y of Notre Dame 
Men Behind the Guns 
By WILLIAM CORR 
The cheering thousands who watch the Irish of Notre Dame play on the fall Saturdays rarely, if ever, give a thought to the men behind the guns. These other pea, pie are the men who make for the comfort of the team and the spectators and who assume charge of the many incidentals that crop up during the course of a season. 
The board of athletic control acts as a supervisory bodyover all athletic matters at Notre Dame. This group is directed by the Rev. Michael M. Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice,president of the university. The secretary is James 
E. McCarthy, dean of the college of commerce. The other members are the Rev. Raymond M. Murch, C.S.C., Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C., Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., William Logan Benit:~, and Clarence Manion. These men pass on the athletic schedules of the various teams of the university and have charge of the awarding of monograms for athletic achievement. 
Notre Dame stadium is one of the greatest projects that the board has undertaken. All the planning and· financing of this structure came under the supervision of these men and the great bowl stands as a monument to their labor. 
When we mention the stadium, we cannot forget the business office located in the Administration building. 
· The staff, under the direction of J. Arthur Haley, han, dies all the finances of Notre Dame athletics. The dis, tribution of tickets in the stadium is taken care of by Herbert Jones, assistant business manager, while those coveted ducats to the press box are handled by Joseph Petritz, director of sports publicity. These men ·have the help of a remarkably efficient staff who take care of the innumerable duties such as the de, tails of a trip. Hotel and transportation reservations must be secured beforehand. Meals must be ordered. Plans for diversion on a trip must be carefully cared for. among the many other tasks that fall to the business office. Not the least of the. tasks that Mr. Haley and his staff find on their shoulders is the purchase of all the athletic equipment at the university. Football uniforms, basket, ball uniforms, unif<?rms for every form of athletics, and the necessities for every fprm of sport must be secured. Realizing that the athletic system at Notre Dame covers interhall sport. and freshman teams, this business assumes alarming proportions. · Even if the purchase· is a terrifying thought,· let your mind wander to the consideration of the distribution of this equipment. Anthony Schreiner is the man who has charge of this phase of the work. In a well,appointed room in · the gymnasium all these uniforms are stored. When the fall comes and football is at hand, some 300 youths must be outfitted in four hours. No, you wouldn't like the job any more than we would. But "'Tony, enjoys his work. He even enjoys the packing of trunks when a team goes away on a trip. The care of this equipment at all times comes under the eagle eye of the men in the equipment room. 
When the season is finished they must store away all the trappings that go· to make up the seasonal outfit. A gridmal} has three pairs of shoes in his list of equipment and these must be treated with oil before they can be returned to storage for the winter. That task falls under the domain of the equipment room. 
Added to all these duties is another one that calls for great care. Have you ever had the desire to praise a player right in the middle of a game? Anthony Schreiner has that opportunity offered to him every Saturday after, noon-with a penalty of ---yards attached to it. Yes! He's the water boy. Carrying water isn't the only part of that work since he must also act as the miracle man and revive a fallen warrior in less than two min, utes. First he must diagnose and then prescribe and final.. 
· ly cure. It's a pretty stiff job to complete in two min, utes, and you can't allow time for recuperation. All the miles of tape handled and used on Notre Dame men are not in the care of Mr. Schreiner, however. Eu.. gene Young, more familiarly known as ..Scrapiron,, has 

h 
i' 
Eugene (Scrapiroil) "Yourig 
to take care of the athletes before they ever ·look at the opposition. His work is done in the dressing room~ Rub, downs, liniment, alcohol, (no, not that kind), sun, lamps and similar paraphernalia are his equipm~nt. 
That the Notre Dame team is able to go through the · bruising schedule it faces without serious injury is due to the care of Young, and his assistants, headed by Ray DeCook. These ·men look out for limps, bruises, sprains, and the many other ailments that befall the football player during the course of a stormy season. 
Although these men receive. none of the publicity ac, corded to the coaches, the players, the band, and the other !. color attractions of intercollegiate football, they are an integral part of every good system and must not be for.. gotten when praise is offered for ·a successful season. They are truly "'the men behind the guns., Without these men the team might win games but it is doubtful if the season would be successful. 
All but the board of athletic control rose to high points of efficiency under the genius of the late Knute Rockne· and it" is for Rockne that they will carry on. These de.. partments were the outgrowth of necessity but they owe their development to the man who was a great leader. 
-[ 97 ]­

OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil.Y of Notre Dame 
3Jn :IJI!lrmnrium 
; Cadet Richard Brinsley Sheridan 

Today they buried You. . 
'The bugle called acros.o; the silent hills. 
'The little church of all Your orisons 
\Vas filled; alL came to honor You. Each loving friend was there. Anon A boy's voice rang sweet upon the air, 
'The litany of the dead-Your farewell prayer. Each head leaned low; each gray-clad shoulder bent; 
And lo! each stalwa~t. wo.uld-be soldier wept. 
You were a comrade lost in tragic war, 
And so all West Point mourned! 
Far away across America 
When day first bro~e at glorious Notre Dame 
The chapels, too, were filled w{th ·fello~ship. 
'fwo thousand students l{nelt to honor You. 
Ene~ies in battle you had been 
(Note: Cadet Richard Brinsley Sheridan was diecl two days later at a New Haven hospital.). 
But rivalry forgotten was in. death. And, as from earth You had a dual farewell From lovi~g West Point and great Notre Dame, So up in heaven You-will find, I''-m sure That same strange comradeship is present there. For Roc~ne's waiting; and his clasp is ready For Your shoulder. Together You will watch The great grid classic you have helped to ma~e, And You and He will smile and say '10ur boys". The while below the teams play valiantly For each is carrying in its heart a memory. And so forever when the game is fought Men will marvel at its cleanness, spirit, strength; And up above, You Two will watch~ and pray, A~d be the loved guardians of Your ~eams. 
-MARY LUSBY, '32,' Holy Cross academy; Washington, D. C. 
fatall}' injured in tile· Arm}·-Yale game, Oct. 2·1. He· 
-[ 98l­


OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEw-1931-UniversilJ) of Notre Dame 
A Viking Goes to Rest. 
(Continued from page 51) 
duly, he said: ··when the going gets tough-that's when we like it! Get that ball and go, go, go!" 
They went, s<;oring 14 points in the final ten minutes. It was just one of the many Notre Dame comebacks en, ginee~ed by Rockne's knack of stimulating an apparently beaten eleven. Next time fate pins you against the wall try. saying to yourself: ··when the going gets tough, that's when I like it." It may do some good if you have 
the  will power to  back  up  those  words with Rockne  
••fight."  
Power 'Through Restraint  

Rockne was not a ranter. He scorned the cheap tricks of the professional orator. Experience had taught him the danger of trying to ··key up" a bunch of impression, able boys via verbal fireworks. -He realized that a reac, tion inevitable follows a sustained effort to arouse young, sters through tongue lashings. His vocabulary was pun, gent but never profane. Sarcasm, a terrible weapon in ·his hands, .stung the laggard, the dilettante or the dull witted candidate more sharply than the oaths which movie directors regard as an· inseparable part of a coach's equipment. The reprimand delivered, however, Rockne would temper the sting with a smile. He never broke a boy's spirit. As one. of his players put it-..When Rock smiles you forget the bawling out and would ram your 
head into a concrete wall if he asked you .to., 
While Rockne steered clear of the traditional ••fight talk" he knew how to get an emotional ·response. A practical psychologist, Rockne achieved his effects by subtler methods. Sometimes he employed silence. 
Before the Northwestern game last fall, a contest which Rockne regarded as the season's supreme test, a tomb,like silence prevailed in Notre Dame's dressing room beneath the concrete tower of Dyche Stadium. Nobody spoke as 
· the Irish warriors, grim in their blue and ·gold war trap' 
pings, ·sat on the· wooden benches staririg at the shadows 
cast by the tall, dark lockers. 
That silence, commanded by Rockne, tugged at your ear drums. The creaking of a chair made you jump. Faint echoes of cheering, like sounds from_Mars, accen, tuated the stillness in that Isolated locker room. · 
On the whitewashed wall a clock ticked off th~ min, utes-eighteen of them, unbroken by anything save the soft shuffle of restless feet and the quick breathing of boys under h~gh nervous tension. · 
"Everybody Up" 
Just when you felt you must shout or go crazy, Rockne jumped to his feet: ••Everybody up!". His staccato voice, harsh but not unpleasant, cracked like a machine gun as he called out his starting lineup. ··shift slowly," he 
added.. · ••Keep that cadence down. Play clean and fight!" 
The tension, sustained for eighteen cruel minutes, had been snapped. Conley's men, physically relaxed but mentally on edge, clattered up the runway to face North, western. Silence, you see, can be more eloquent than oaths. 
Rockne had no use for shirkers. At the same time, he w~s more considerate of his players than of himself. He wouldn't permit the varsity to undergo those gruelling practice scrimmages so popular with many of his col, leagues, but he didn't conserve his own nervous energy, depleted though it was by a baffling illness. 
Warned by Father Michael Mulcaire that he ought to curb his ambitiou~ program of work, follow the doctor's orders and settle down to a sedentary, quiet life at South Bend, Rockne replied: ••Father, I'm not built for an in, valid's routine~ If you clip the wild duck's wings, he pines away and dies. I too must fly until I fall." 
His words seem strangely prophetic in the light of what happened on that storm,riven Kansas farm. As long as Rockne had to go, he would have wanted it this way-to die in harness at the flood tide of his success, 
· belqved of all sportsmen. They have buried Rockne's body. They cannot bury his spirit. It lives on in the hearts of all Notre Dame men and of thousands more who never looked upon the golden dome of Notre Dame du Lac. 
Ma-~chy Schwartz, all, American left halfback, led the team in scoring with five touchdowns. His passes led to several others, however, and all of his scores were important. 
Just before we went to press, the Studebaker Corpora, tion of America announced its new Rockne Six which will appear on the market soon. 
+·-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··--·-··-··-··-··-·--··-··-·+

i 
i 
i 
I 

l SHAMROCK'S
i i ALL HOME GAMES PLAYED.AT
i 
CHICAGO 
M
isi 
TAD I U
i 
1800 W. Madison· St. 
i 
+~-··-··-··-··--·--·-··--·-··-··--·--·--·-··--·-·~·-··--+ 
-[ 99 ]­. -. .· ~ .... .:.... .....,, ... ······· ,,, ..······· ''· ···~"·-·~··~~~-----------~--­
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEw-1931-Univcrsil.Y of N olrc Dame 
The Twinkle in Rockne's Eyes · 
. (Cohtlnucd from page 56) . 
hts shoulders, he turned around and started to· climb back into his truck. .. See," exclaimed Rockne, loud enough so the driver could hear him, ..1 knew he was afraid to fight!" 
At times Rockne used his stories to bring very forcibly before his boys some point that he wanted them to re, member. Usually this was done on the spur of the mo.. nient but some times by a pre-arranged plan, where he apparently used one of his star players as the butt of the joke. With-this system he found that his point went home and at the same time, knowing the boys as· he did, he retained the admiration of the chap he had used as a 
· foil. Some times he would tell a story about Carideo. Again it would be about Gipp. But always it was with. the idea in mind of making his listeners get a point that would be for their own good. . 
Rockne told his stories just the same as he coached foot, ball. He told them as hard as he could. By that I mean that_other speakers could get up and tell a story at a.ban, quet and people would politely listen. Rockne would tell the same story and the very forcefulness made you a part of the story. In that way he was really not a story teller but a subtle dramatist. He drew every one to-ward him and .alth.ough ~hey knew they were on the defensive, they gloned lJ?. thetr own attempts to back him into a corner: and make him yell_ ··uncle.,, No one succeeded. · 
Can you imagine Rockne at the bedside of a friend or a companion who might be close to death? He might be in almost a frenzy of sorrow but to help the other fel, low keep his spirits up, he· had that story handy that would just fit the occasion but unlike most story tellers he knew how to tell it at that time. . · 
So much has been said about Rockne's humor that the majority of people. got the impression that he was a50; called funny man. That was not · true.· Rockne could turn a story with a humorous point to it into a barbed shaft just as quickly as he could tell the same story ·and_ ma~e you laugh until you-wanted to roll out ··of . your 
. chair. The whole point about Rockne's humor is the fact· that he knew wh~n, hO\y, and where to tell astory. . 
Now the question anses-what good was all this hu, mor? The whole thing was that it made him worth listen, ing to._ That brought men close to him and infected them · with his el)thusiasm and clear outlook on life. His stories never allowed _you to be down in the mouth. They kept you up on your toes. Men like that were the ones that Rockne wanted around. They became smart football play, ers. They took some of his stones onto the field and used. them on the other fellows to keep him on the de, 
fensive from two standpoints. · · · 
When the other fellow was trying to guess the answer to some quick sally and also trying to guess what the player was going to do next as a football man they were in a double quandary. ' 
Only -one man ever flagrantly disobeyed Rockne. That man was George Gipp. And. although Gipp's death was one of the hardest thirigs Rockne ever had to bear; when he talked about Gipp--. 
You should have seeri the twinkle in Rockne's eyes. 
They'll Be Missing You~ Ro.ckf. 
. (Continued from page 55) 
For a man who was apt to make a . sharp answer, Rockne had few enemies, among his fellow coaches. In; deed, it might be said, and defended, that he had . none at all. · 
In all my dealings with him, I know of but one coach that seemed to irritate him, and he refused to become unduly exercised over him, inasmuch as neither Rockne · himself, _nor Notre Daine, had any direct . dealings with this coach. · . 
. ·_. . (know of one coach, now doing v~ry well out on the Pacific Coast, who was one· of Rockne's -great friends, and one who could be counted upon, invariably, to get ~imself into any _fight that Rockne happened to be wag, mg-verbally, of course. . Through some unfortunate accident, probably tale bearing, this coach ·got the idea, last Fall, that Rockne didn't like him, any more, He was at a ·loss for ·any reason why, and was quite worried about it. · Why he didn't get in communication with Rockne · ·and find o.ut for himself, that it was a misapprehensio~,' I never did know. ·· -· All I can report, is that this coach communicated with. ·me, who happ~ned to be a mutual friend. It happened that, before I had a chance to try and untangle the unfortunate_ mixup, Rockne was booked for a radio interview, in Los Angeles, and Mark Kelly of the Los _Angeles, ..Examiner", and I were scheduled to· ask . him que5tions~ · One of th~m · had to do with Coast coaches: Rockne's· reply to' that was no less_ than a eulogy of the coach .who. had been worried because lie 
thought Rockne was ···off him.'' -. · I couldn't wait to get through with ·the interview arid calL the .coach up. . · · .. Did you hear the boost'Rock gave you?" I asked.-_ 
.. 1 never listen to radio programs,, said the· coach, which. must be something of a record, at that. ·. · . That same .evening~ ·-this coach called on Rockne, an-d 
for a great part of-.the time that he was on the ·coast, 
the· two were together: . 
When the news of. Rockne's death was flashed across -the country, one of the first letters I received, was from this coach. He mourned Rockne's loss as we all did and still do.-But he took some consolati~n, he wrote, 'from the fact that his death hadn't occurred before the chance was afforded for-the clearing up of that unhappy circum' stance brought about by tale, bearing. · · · . . 
This, no ·doubt, is a rather long yvinded incident. But ·-it_shows, I hope, the val~e place_d on· Rockne's friendship,· by. his fellow coaches. . · . . 
The coach in_volved, I might add, was one who had· been standing _on his own feet, and· recognized .. for his own ability, practically as long as Rockne· had. . So you can't· write the incident off as one of fear for what might happen, if a· condition ·actually existed, and continued to exist_, a condition in which Rockne was .. off him." 
,. Rockne .was no bargain for his fellow coaches,. if you an~ to consider that games won are a part of a coach's · existence. 
-[ 100]___; 
I­
f'\:-• ..-: : .. ._ ... 1 ............. • ........ 
.' ­
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEw-1931-Universil_y of ·Notre Dame 
And yet there isn't a one of those, who have sat up at 
. nights trying to figure out, and generally failing, how to stop his teams, who wouldn't trade in all the victory pos.. _ sibilities they ever conceived, to have him back. 
Rockne was more than a coach. He was THE coach, and recogni4ed as such by the very men who were unwilling, in all other cases, to cofl... cede that anyone else was ever more than all square with them, and orie to go. 
Keeping Watch 
I 
I (Continued from page 70) l Falling, we rise again. Losing, we put new fury into I the fight." 
A gleam lights the eyes of the lone figure at the great g~tes. Was that a faint chuckle? .. They. have learned, down there. They know how to· take it. My men! ""I shall watch again·. But, let them never whine when they lose!" · 
The great gates swing. The lone figure passes in, where all is sweet ·and beautiful. ·He will watch· again. · I The gates close. Outside, the winds of the world sweep chill. and cold from the bleak infinity of space. They 
I 
l 
buffet against the battlements of Paradise. Turned back, they wail ·aimlessly away into the: vast, gray void of the mists. · 
·They Fo~ght ~ock 
(Continued from page 70) . 
line was outcharged by. the Trojans in the second half and they_ got some bad breaks when your boys clipped pass receivers. One of them was good for 38 yards and you kpow these soon add up in yardage. The official, though, was right. The crowd booed him a lot but you would have understood. 
It was a hard game on the nerves, Rock, and soon as I get this off Tm going to Chicago and eat lots of celery. Remember once you told us celery was a good nerve quieter. 
The Trojans started .off like they were going to make short order of things with a pair of scoring chances but your boys showed 'em that old stuff of fighting with their backs to the wall and the Trojans couldn't get it over. From that point until the third period it belonged to your boys. Then the Trojans, with Shaver and Mohler doing the work, took charge of the party and soon the score was 14 to 13 in your favor.; Then that field goal, Rock. You would be the first to say that it was a honey. 
They remembered you Saturday, Rock. Every person in the stands stood with bared heads in ·your memory as that band played ""Notre Dame, Our Mother." Even telegraph keys stopped clicking clear up here in the press box. And your pals, the newsboys as you c~lled them, managed to get up from their seats and bare their heads. I thought it was wonderful. 
I 
It's almost dark now, Rock. A big moon is looking down on the emptiness of this·-stadium. Your pals are still carrying on up in the press box. wonder if their stories would be any different had you been down there with your boys? But they played hard and clean and well, Rock. That, after all, was what you always asked . 
. The spirit of Notre Dame is carrying on. toniaht. Sleep in peace, Rock. All's right with the world. Th~y couldn't win 'em all. S'long, Rock. 
Notre Dame's all..time football record shows 203 vic, tories, 44 losses, and 19 ties in 43 seasons. The defeats average only one more than one a season. Fourteen teams were undefeated; 
Notre Dame drew nearly twice as many yards in pen, alties as did its nine opponents. The Irish were set back 610 yards and the opposition drew 328. 
+·-·--··-·--·--··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-·--·---·+
l 
AUTOGRAPHED j 
Pictures o/Notre Dame Players· 
( POST•CARD SIZE) 
Set of 3 0 Leading Pia yers 
Price Only $2.00 Per Set 
(C. 0. D., CASH OR l\IONEY ORDER) 
THOMAS A. MISTERLY 
Campus Agent Stuhldreher' s "Roc~ne-Man· Builder" 
344 BADIN HALL NoTRE DAME, IND. 
+·-··-··-··-··-··--·-··-··-··-··-··-··-~·-··-··-··-··--·-·+ +·-·~-·--··-·--··-··-··-·..-··-··-··-··-··-··-·--··-··-··-+
. I. 
"]\f..ot only a name-a distinction with a difference" j 
MULDOON'S 
HIGH QUALITY 

IC.E CREAM 
Served in the Notre Dame CAFETERIA and DINING HALLS 
"Not only a dessert-a food for young and old" 
+--·----·~-··-··-··-··-··-··-··......:··-··-··-··---1-tl-t:J-at-e+ 
+·-·--·--··-··-··-··-··-··-·--·--··-··-·~-··-··~··-·--·--·+ 
Osborn Paper Company 
MARION, INDIANA 
Manufacturers of 
School Tablets and Note Books 
Loose Leaf Papers for College1 Work and Note B~ok Coversi 
Correspondence Tablets, 
.I 
Envelopes, Writing Pa..
I . pers and Box Stationery
i .







+·--·-··--·-··--·-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··--·--·-.·+ 

-[ 101 ]­
! 
! 
1 I 
t
r-­
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-:-19 31-Vnivcrsil.Y ·of N olrc Dame 
Rockne1 The Radio Feature 
(Continued from page 65) . 
phoned him in Los Angeles and asked him to be my guest at the Army,Navy game. I wanted Rock to broadcast before and after the halves. He accepted, and came East. Because of recurring pains in his legs, he could not come to the broadcasting location and instead sat with Jimmy Walker in his field box below us. 
We ran a mike down to where he sat. Rock devoted his first chat to a discussion of my virtues, but I never knew this until after the game, as everything he said on the air went out without my being "in, on it. When my operators told me Rock was through speakin~, I'd j~st keep on. Between the halves Rock went on agam and dts' 
+·-··-·--·--·--··-··-··-·--··~··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-+ 
Compliments of 
Thomas D. Quigley 
Class L.L.B. '12 
1 
i 
i 
.+,-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··--·--·--·-··-··-··-··-··--·--·-·+ 
+·-··-·._.._,._,,_,__,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_,,_t 
J ! r 

Livingston's 

THE SOUTH BEND. S.TORE FOR NOTRE DAME MEN I i 
I 
! i 
+-.~··--·--·-··--·-··-··~··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-••-a•-·+ 
cussed the game with intense severity, praising here, de, crying there and analyzing everything. Then he predicted that Stecker of the Army was the most dangerous man on the field, and would probably score the only touch, down of the game. How right he was! 
Directly the game . ended, he again bespoke his piece, and a rattling smart bit of radio chatter it was. The way I discovered this was a peculiar one. An upstate New Yorker sent me a dozen double,faced metallic discs on which were recorded my entire broadcast of the Army, Navy game, including Rock's analyzings. These records were such a wallop that I offered them to the Army, and they accepted them as a living memory of our great friend. · 
Rock knew the limitations of football reporting by radio and ~e oft~n sat and discussed for many moments, in such places as his office, the Notre Dame lunch roo?I, the Pittsburgh dressing room and countless other locat10ns, 'a 
· possible method of . stabilizing football revisualizations. He never feared giving me his entire catalogue of plays, his starting lineups, shock troops or not nor any other relevant information which he knew we had to have for immediate positive dissemination to the radio throngs tuned in. We needed all the dope, quite <11 while in ad, vance. He never felt that it was time wasted to run his plays over and over again for the radio announcer-for he felt that a good broadcast meant excellent public ac, ceptance of the famed Nomads of India_na. . . 
Two or three incidents in connection with Rock whtch probably would mean little_ to a reader ~tand out in my 
·+·-·--··-·--·--··-··-·--··-·--··-··-··-··-··-··-··-,·-·--t
I 
I 
i Reliable Transportation i j i
fora 
i 
i
P~ogressive Community j j 

THE NORTHERN INDIANA  
1 I  RAILWAY,lnc. SOUTH BEND, IND..  
I  .  - 

+·-··-··~··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··--·-··-··--·-··:--·---·-·+ 
-[ 102 ]­
; ' . ~ . . ~ ,_ ~ . ~ ., ~ ~· . ~ .. 
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universit.Y of Notre Dame 
mind. ·The first came when Les Quailey, my assistant, 
and I went out to the ,field to study: the Rockne system. 
Impetuously, I ran out through the teams to yell a big 
··Hello" to him. Quailey, formerly a collegiate quarterback, grabbed my arm and softly growled, .. Hey, you sap! A coach never wants to be bothered when .he's busy." Which incident.. ally is very true. But Rockne turned from his charges · for a moment and shouted a big .. Hello" in return and motioned that he'd be with me in a few moments. Reali~.. ing that I'd been a blundering idiot, and somewhat abashed at my stupidity, I felt quite .. hicky" for a moment, but when I considered that Rock would let very little perturb him, I felt a heap better. Rock, in the radio stations or at any place I ever saw him, never failed to enthuse over ineeting a new acquaint, ance. He was very patient under the most trying condi.­tions. He answered questions wheth.er plied by -intellec, tuals or morons, for he reali~ed that his reputation, in the mind of each person. he met, rested in the impression he gave. 
In the studios of WJAS in Pittsburgh one night, Rock was on the air. I was called ovet to ask him a question (which would be· called a time-filler in my radio Jan.. gauge), since the· regular set program had been exhausted and there was still time to go. I asked Rock, ..If you were appointed coach at ..Y" college, and saw your team for the first time, would you apply the system to them, or just apply them to the system?" · 
Rock flashed back-..If the team is· good, theri it's your 
system you can rave about, and if the team is bad, then the players are below standard." You can't imagine how this retort amused everyone present. Jock Sutherland was pressed into service to ask him a question and Jock asked Knute how many touchdowns would separate Pitt and N. D. Rock allowed as how two would be enough. The final score was 3 5, 19. · 
And that's that-Rockne was a terrific radio feature. I venture that 99 44,100 per cent of the simon.-pures in football listened in each week to his talks-and if you want a tip-off, hasn't there been a terrible let.-down in those weekly ..sport" chats since he went over the horizon? 
Yes sir! It needed a Rockne to make football a na.. tional riot, and it needed· a virile Rockne to make sport talks a verbal panic! 
+·-·-----··-·--·~·--·--·--·--·--··-·--·-----·.-..-----·--+
i 
f 
CENTURY ELECTROTYPE CO. 
LEAD MOULDS-NICKEL TYP~LECffiOTYPBS-STER.EOTYPES 547SO.CLARKSI: • CHICAGO ILL. 
I 
+-··--~~-··-··-··-··--·--·----·~-~·--·-··-··-··-··-··-~~+:· 
+·-·--·--·--··-··-·--··-··~··-··-·--··-··~··-··-·--··-·--··-·--··-··-··-··-··-··-··-----·--··-·--·--··-·--·--·1-til-llt-lt-+ 
.i




ROCKNE LETTERHOLDER i 

Finished in Notre Dame's Colors Blue and GQld 
.. , i i 
;.. : !'! 
Actual etched autographs of Knute Rockne and his last and ·greatest team-The National Football Champions of '30·31, reproduced on this solid bronze desk letterholder and perpetual calendar. 
$1.50 
An ideal Christmas gift, bridge and party favor. Useful and· ornamental in home and office. The only memento 
of its kind to have Rockne's personal approval, given before .his death. Will last forever and be cherished. always. 
Send money order, draft, or check. Mailed to you postage paid. Your money back if not satisfied. Sold exclusive.ly by
1 i H. J. YALEY MFG. CO., 423 I. 0. 0. F. Bldg.~ P. 0. Box 1195, South Bend, Ind. 
i .. 
+-··-··-··-··-··-··-·.·--·--·-··-··---.-.~-~·-··--·-··--·-··-··--l-tl------·--·--·--·--·-··-··--·-··--·-··-··--·--·-----·-·+ 
-[ 103)­
I 
I 
~ 



OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universil_y of N olre Dame 
Dealers in a camp le(e-fine of. Building Material~ 
INDIANA LUMBER &MFG.COMPANY 
Main Yard, Factory and Display Room· 
738-40 S.Michigan St. Phone 3-6131 
+·-··-··-··-··-··-··.....:._,,_,,...,;..:..,_,..:--··--.·--·-··-··--·-··-··-·+ 
+·-··-·--··-·--··-··-··-··-··-··-!·-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-·+ 
I 
i 
i 
i I 
!
+·--.._.·-··-··-··-··-··--·--·-··-··-··-··-··--·..;_.·--·-..-·+ 
·+·-··-------··-··-··-·--··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-·~~-··-··-+
J ­

~-~ 
~ 
Auditorium Hotel 
Michigan Boulevard and Congress Street 
i · ·':fHOS. McWILLIAMS, Manager 
i _ CHICAGO . 
+!-11·--·-··-··-··-··-··-··--·-··--·-c•-··-··-··-··--·--·-·+ 
+--·---·-··-··-··~··-··--·~·--··-··~··-··-··-··-··-··-••-t+ 

Makers of I ndi"ana .Millwor~ 
i 
Since 1869, ]errems has presented the finest of 
j
custom tailored attire for business, sports and .· ·Jo.rmal usage. _ Also · English accessories and . -· :_· rea4y·to•weilr Topcoats and Overcoats. 
71 East Monroe Street 140 South Clark Street 7 South La Salle Street 225 North. Wabash Avenue 324 South Michigan Avenue 1609 Orrington Avenue, Evanston 
Notre Dame1 14i U.S. C.1 16 
(Continued from page !J3) 
A lateral pass, Schwartz to Banas, put.the ball to the Trojan's three-yard line.. · 
Banas' 36-yard run was one ~f the greate5t of the . game, as he squirmed out of the arms of sever~l players and seemed to dodge every man on the Southern Califor· nia team ·before he was finally run out. of · bounds. Schwartz, on the next play, smashed over the Trojan's left tackle for three yards and a touchdown. Jaskwhich again kicked goal. · · 
A few minutes later Jim Musick, Trojans' fullback, was hurt and limped off the field. _Southern California players said in their dressing room after the game that this was the turning point of the game . 
..We really started to fight then and there,,, said. John· ny Baker. ..It was a shame to see good old Jim leaving the game and we said 'let's go after them.' , 
The Trojans did just that when they drove to Notre Dame's 10-yard line. But they were halted. Schwartz, of Notre Dame, chose to kick out to his own 48-yard line and then the Trojans began their first touchdown march. 
Mohler gained . two yards. His pass was ruled com· plete because of interference on Notre Dame's 40-yard line. . Shaver smashed through .for five yards. A lateral pass, Mohler· to Shaver, gained 11 yards and first down on Notre Dame's 24-yard line. Shaver hit the line for four yards. Mohler, stopped in his tracks th~ first time, gained five yards on the next attempt, carrying the ball to Notre. Dame's 15·yard line as. the third quarter ended. 
Ray Sparling, Southern California's left end, who played the entire game, swept around Notre Dame's left end for 13 yar~s. on an end around play, placing the ball on ·the one-yard line. 
Shaver was stopped without gai~1 on. his first attempt, but· plunged over on the next play for the Trojans' first score.. Kurth broke through ·and blocked Baker's attempt.. at goal, and Notre Dame held a 14 to 6 lead, which seemed safe enough with about 13 minutes to play. 
In five plays, Southern California· scored its second touchdown:_the fourth made on Notre Dame all season. 
Coach Heartly Anderson rushed in Murphy at· quar· terback and. Duke Millheam, a le(t·handed passer, but the game ended three plays later "?hen Clark: ~ntercepted a pass on Notre Dame's 40-yard line. 
'·: 'c : • •• • ' o • ' •; • • • • • .~, • ' • • . • • • • • •' •' "' -! • 
1 l OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-University of Notre Dame 
+·-·--··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-·--··-··-··-·--·--··-··-+
Kn.ute Rockner--'Newspaperman 
I 
(Continued from page 01) 


'The Champions
the "B" team down at Vanderbilt. A born news-gatherer 
and always on the alert for ·new channels of -information, Stand Out Even Shoe Repairing
i 
it was a treat to hear him discuss the strength and weak, .Il ness of teams in all parts of the country. If Zuppke had a sophomore star under wraps, Rock could give you all. 
WASHINGTON. ··SHOE 
the details of his football pedigree. If some small-school on the coast had a stand,out linesman, Rock could tell you all about him by the first game in September-or REPAIR SHOP CO. make it his business to find out. Not alone for scouting 
1 · 116 W. Washington Phone 2-2228
purposes and certainly not for the mere satisfaction of prying into other people's business, did he become an i 
+·-••-a•-••-••~•-••-••-••-e•-••-ar-a•-••-••-e...:..tt-t~t-et-•+
encyclopedia of football information -but because his mind was broad and open to the improvements, discoveries 
~·-·--··-··-··-··-··-··-··-·--·--··-~·-··-··-·.-··-··-··-+ 
. and progress of others, no matter how obscure. . I Llke a good reporter,· he never missed a· dead-line and j regardless of personal convenience, Rock saw to it tha~· his copy "made" the first edition. Following the defeat 
Compliments of the
at Los Angeles in 1928, Rock rushed for the car that was to take him to the hotel, to write his story of a disas­trous afternoon. But news of a worse disaster ·was await-. 

LEATHER SHOP
ing him-a telegram from . South Bend. Little Jackie w~s at the point of death! Mrs.. Rockne, on the verge of collapse from shock, required his help and comfort to 132 No. Michigan St. 
u
· ca!ry 4er through the long, homeward journey. And yet, Rock -always equal to any emergency, collected his I i :III 
II 
thoughts, put his observations on paper, entrusted them p to one of his· boys at the train and the next morning, !I the papers carried his .story of the game-brief but one 

!!



+.-••-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··--·-··-··-··-··-··--·-·+i 
of the most interesting he ever wrote. . Following the 
+·-·~··-··.-··-··-··-·---··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··--,_·-----+
Ariny game in 1828, after a Notre Dame victory in the 
i
wake of four defeats, Rock was spieling his story of the game, to a typist, in the Yankee Stadium.· Burris Jenkins, i well-known sports writer and cartoonist, sat nearby, i amazed at Rock's activity and ability as a correspondent. i Several sheets of copy had rolled out of the typewriter j when Col. Ruppert, owner of the Yankees, entered for In Fand Memory of 
I
a second time. ··come· on, Rock. The major is waiting and the party will have to go to town without you." i ··well,, chuckled Kanoot, with a little color popping to Knute K. Rockne i his cheeks-··I don't want to miss anything good, Colonel, i but I'd sooner theparty go to town without me, than the j newspapers go to press without t4is· little" piece I'm do­1 
I
ing. · It isn't a masterpiece, but they advertised it.,, 
i i 
And yet if good . old Rock had the natural instincts of i j a reporter he was ~ade to order as the perfect City Editor. 
i
·Give him .a squad ·of smart, .willing, .aggressive cub re­
i
porters and his newspape·r. would soc;m have 'had the best stories and· the.largest circulation -in· the world.· What a i City Editor! Why 'he'd know what.the opposition was I going to feature on Page 1 two weeks l;>efore they went to i press. He'd make :Walter Winchell look to his laurels as i a news-hound. •And would he organize that staff! Police 
i 
reporters, r~-write men, photographers, city hall reporters, 
I
court . house reporters-every _last one of them down to Edwards Iron W arks the proverbi_al office boy~n. his ·toes, wide awake,· hust­i ling, watching for the opposition-to make a mistake, wait­i 2901 So. Main ing for the breaks, ..MAKING 'the breaks· and, . above all, i. 
SouTH BEND, INDIANA
loyal and aggressive_:_that's ·the kind of an' All-America 
i 
newspaper· staff·· that· Knute · K. Rockne would have de­
i . ' i
veloped and demanded, had .he ~een a City Editor. 
+-··-··-··-··-··--·--·-··-··-.··--·-..·-··-··-··-··:-·~·-·+ 
-[ 10~ ]­
OFFICIAL FOOTBALL REVIEW-1931-Univcrsity of N otrc Dame 
Carrying On the Rockne System 
(Continued from page OS) 
Harry Stuhldreher, along with Ed Hunsinger and Robert Reagan, didn't fare so well with their Villanova squad. While winning four games, they lost three con, tests and tied two. 
Returning to the Big Ten for a moment and stopping at Ohio State, the record book points to the spotty season of the Buckeyes, six wins and three losses. Don Miller is backfield coach and his backs blocked and tackled superbly in their 6 to 0 win over Michigan. 
Five wins, three losses, and one tie-a nicely balanced season-was the result for the former Horseman, Jimmy Crowley at Michigan State. A 100 to 0 win over Ripon caused much comment and partially wiped out the de, feats by Army, Detroit and Syracuse. Detroit was made happy because the Staters had tied Michigan, 0 to 0. 
Back to Ohio, Harry Baujan's University of Dayton gridders. ended a season of five wins, three losses and two ties, playing a 6 to 6 deadlock with the ..B, team from 
. Notre Dame. Bujan's buckers ran up 237 points. Head Coach Jack Meagher, aided by Johnny Niemic, saw Rice pile up five victories and drop three games. 
Other head coaches include Charley Bachman down at the University of Florida. His outfit had a rather disastrous record, losing five games, tying two, winning three and one to play. Navy carried on under the guid, ance of Edgar (Rip) Miller who had .considerable diffi, culty in breaking the Middies of their old habits and in, traducing to them the Notre Dame system. He was aided by Christy Flanagan and Johnny O'Brien in his work. 
+·-·--·--··--·-··-··-··-··-·--··-··--·-··-··-··-·~~-··-··-··+
i . .i 
South ·Bend's 
i 
Oldest and Most Reliable Eating House
i 
I 

0. A. CLARK ·RESTAURANT 
104,106 N. Michigan Street 
CATERING TO NOTRE DAME 'MEN FOR OVER THIRTY YEARS. 
When You Want a Real Man's Meal-Come In 
I
Anytime. "We Have 7\I.o Key." 
i 
. i
+··-··-··--·--·--·--·-··-··-··-·--··--·-··----··-··-··--·-·+ 
At Georgetown Tommy Mills (not a graduate but a former coach under Rockne) drilled the boys in the No, tre Dame system with assistance from Johnny Colrick and Tom Murphy. Nearby at Catholic university, ..Dutch, Bergman continues his reign with Bert Metzger and Georgie Vlk of '30 fame as aids. · 
Down in North Carolina, Chuck Collins is head men, . tor, Bill Cerney and· Al Howard helping to produce the teams. Johnny .. Clipper" Smith prepped North Caro, lina State's outfit, helped by Frank Reese. Out at the Univ. of Wichita, Joe Locke gave considerable aid to Head Coach Al Gebert. 
On the west coast, Tom Lieb had Manfred Vezie as, siting him in the imparting of fundamentals to the Loyola eleven. Maurice Smith and Buck Shaw took care of Santa Clara; Charley Walsh and Joe Maxwell guiding for St. Louis U. Joe Meyer had strapping Tim Moyni, han coaching the line for him at St. Xavier, Cincinnati. 
Alabama Poly's squad continued· umler Chet Wynne and Rag Kiley; University of New Mexico created a furore with Charles Riley and Joe Nash bringing the boys along in fine style. 
Elmer Layden at Duquesne, Tom Conley at De LaSalle (Philly), Joe Benda at St. John's (Minn.), Clem Crowe at St. Vincent's (Philly), Wibur Eaton at Howard U. (Ala.), and John Law at Manhattan college were other head coaches using the Notre Dame system. 
Larry Mullins did well with the backs at Kansas, Jack Cannon aided at Georgia Tech, Elmer Wynne at Colo, rado School of Mines, Tom Kassis at U. of Colorado, Tom Kenneally at Rutgers, and John McMannon at Bas, ton college. . \ 
+·-•---a-•·-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-·~-··-··-··-··-+ 
i 
I
O'SHEA. I KNITTING MILLS 
·Makers of Athletic Knitted 
Wear for every sport. Durable, · 
quality par excellence. That's 
why the Fighting I~ish use them. 
+--·-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··--·-··-··-··-··--·-=··--·--·-·+ 
2414.-24 N. -Sacramento Ave.  
Telephone: Albany 5011  
CHICAGO  
!  II  
1 iI. I 1  D.  C.  O'Shea, President .  W. C. King, Secretary  iii i i  

-[ 106 ]­
;~':._ ~ • ''..,."' " -: ; "";" "' ' ,...-• --' •-r t, ' ~ \ < ~ ~ " ' ' > • • • • ' • ~ I r -• ' l' • -'" • • '' • I ',. • : 
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEw-1931-Universit.v of Notre Dame 
N. D.1 19i Carnegie1 0 
(Continued from page 87) 
alty for holding drove the Irish back to their 19,yard 
marker. 
Notre Dame made four yards and a Tech penalty moved the oval up to the nine,yard line, froin which Leahy drove to the two,yard line. He then dove over for the second score. 
The third Notre· Dame score was a matter of time. 
Starting on his own 2 5 ,yard line, Schwartz, in three tries, 
tore off three gains for 14 and five, and on the third 
drive was downed on the 50,yard line. His work was 
done for the quarter, Mike Koken trotting on the field. 
Koken 's first attempt was good for 13 and his second for five yards. A lateral pass, Koken to Leahy, found the end asleep, for Leahy circled that spot for a touchdown. 
Notre Dame1 49i Penn1 0 
(Continued from page 8!1) 
Two more scores rattled off the Irish gat~ing gun in the final period, Leonard taking the leather over from the one,foot line after another . march down the field, and Cronin sweeping around the Quaker line for 12 yards and the final score. To add to their· class, every attempt for extra point from placement was good, splitting the unrights perfectly. 
While Schwartz again was the starting sparkplug of the Irish machine today, it was Sheeketski who reeled off the most yardage from the line of scrimmage. He lugged the ball seven times for 77 yards, or an average of 11 yards a thrust. 
+·~·--·--~--:--··-··-··-··-·--··-~·-~·-·--··-~-----··-·11-11-·+ 
i 
Emil Reyer, Ph.G. H. K. Schwar~. R. Ph. j . W m. A. Ehrich, R.Ph. i 
i 
i
'The Reliance -Pharmacy I 
Inc. 
Telephones: 2,5392 and 3,0398 1 230 W. Washington .Ave., Cor. LafayetteI South Bend, Ind. · i 
+··-··-··--1-la-••-··-··-··-~·-·~-··-··--·-··-··-·1-tll-tll-·+ 
+·-·--·--·--·--··-ll-ll-11-ll-11-11~1·-·--··~~·-·--·--··-~ +
I . 
i 
i Four Flags Hotel 
i 
NILES, MICH.
i 
i 
EXCELLENT MEALS
i 
COFFEE SHOP DINING ROOM
i 
i 
]l{ine miles from Notre Dame Stadium
i 
i on U. S. Highway 31 . 
i . 
~·-··-··--·-··-~·-··-··-··-··-~·--·-··--·--l-tll-11-tll-1+ 
+·-··-··-··-··-··-··-·--~·-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-1•-'+
! 
L· 
To the Fighting Irish-Continued Success! 
Edward B. Dunigan 
OAK PARK, ILLINOIS 

1 
i 
i 
I
I . 
. I 
+-·~~-··-··-··-··-~·-··-··-··-··-··---·-··-11-tl-11-tl-ea-1+ 
+1-ll-11-11-tt-al-ll-11-le-II-11-11-~1-II-11-II-11-II-11-IP+ 
Telephone: 3,9355. 

and 
LINCOLN 
SALES AND SERVICE 
Holycross & Nye 
Inc. 
215 S. Lafayette Blvd. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 
HHUNK" ANDERSON ! Campus Representative 
i 
+ll-11-ll-ll-ll-ll....:.ll-11-1'1--·-··-··-11-tl-11-tl-tll-tl~.-·+ 
-[107]­
. \ 
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEw-1931-Universil.Y of. Notre Dame 
The Review's All-Opponent Tearn 
(Continued fr01~1 page 73) 
. Riley was better early in the season when Northwestern met Notre Dame and, therefore, gets ·the. berth. 
Capt. John Price:· Army's vete~an leader, ranks just a step ahead of the fi~ld on _the qther sid_e-of the line. Much of the credit for . the inspired · game the Cadets played at Yankee sfadium must goto his s_tirriulus. 
G. W. Underwood of Navy_ran.ks a.step or two ahead of his competitors at right guard. He had much to ~o with the brilliant Na\ry defense ·which received all too little credit the day Notre Dame.played at Baltimore. He is· a veteran who knows the ropes and seldom, if ever, has an off day. Summerfelt and Trice of Army, Joe Zelle~ of Indiana, Rosenberg of Southern California, and Milligan of Pitt were close behind. · 
Carl Perina, 200-pound Pennsylvania fullba~k, who showed the way to the East and then came to Notre Dame to play as brilliantly in defeat as ever he. did in victory, is· the class of the fullbacks. Gaius (Gus) Shaver of Southern California and Jim· Musick of the same. team are· of the first water, while. Pitt boasts both Johnny Luch and Jimmy Clark.· Jones of Indiaria and Kilday of Army were close competitors at this position., _ 
I' . 
.Notre Dame plays so many good. teams with so· many 
'
) ·honest-to-goodness gridiron luminaries on them each year
~ 
that it is hard to name a first-class all·opponerit team and unfair, if not impossible, to name a second eleven. For this reason, .we are naming on our honor roll those who stand ~ighest in the esteem of our operatives: 
+·~·-·-·--··-··-··-··.....:.·~-··-··-··-··~·-··-··~··-··~·! 
"Producers from the forest. to. the .job" 
Ii . 
Chicago Wood Piling 'Company 
3 3 2 So. Michigan Ave. 
CHICAGO 
Oa~-Hardwood-Cypress-Pine-Fir
1
I . 
+~·-·~~-··-··-··-··-··-··-··--·-··-··--·-··-~--··--·--·-·+ 
Left Ends-Lyons, Indiana; Sparling, Southern Cali­
fornia; King,_ f.\.rmy; Manske, Northwestern; Hirshberg, 
Pittsburgh; Tanseer, -Pennsylvania; and Stewart, Carne· 
gie Tech . 
Left 'facJtles -.Quatse, Pittsburgh; Brown, Southern 
California; ·Blanck, · Drake; Sokolis, Pennsylvania; and 
Fletcher, Carnegie Tech:· 
Left .Guards-Milligan, Pittsburgh; Sample, Carnegie 
Tech; Rosenberg, Southern California; Dilley, Northwest· 
ern; . Summerfelt, Army; and Bowers, Drake. · 
·Centers-Williamson, Southern· California; Ducanis, 
Carnegie Tech; and Evans, Army. 
Right Guards-Zeller, Indiana; Trice, Army; Evans, 
Northwestern; and Stevens, Southern· California. 
Right 'facJtles-MacMurdo, Pittsburgh; Marvil, North­
western;. Kokjohn, Drake; Bryan, Navy; Suarez, Army; 
Smith, Southern California; 
Right Ends-Collins, Pittsburgh; Fencl, Northwestern; 
and Lewis, Carnegie Te;ch. 
~uarterbacJts.,-Carver, Army; V. Dauer, Indiana; B. 
Goodwin, Drake; Davis, Navy; and Hogan, Pittsburgh. 
Left flalfbaclts-Armentrout, Carnegie Tech; Heller, 
Pittsburgh; Munger, Pennsylvania; Mallory, Southern 
California; Lindstrom, Drake; and Meenan, Northwest· 
ern. .-. . 
Right Halfbaclts-Pipckert, Sout~ern California; Rei· 
der,, Pittsburgh; Chung-Homi, Navy; Gette, Pennsylva· 
nia; Brown, . Army. -. · . 
FullbacJts-Kilday, Army; Musick and Shaver, South· 
ern California·: (Shaver also plays quarterback); Luch ·and 
Clark, Pittsburgh; Olson, _Northwestern; Jones, Indiana'; 
and Lansrud, Drake. 
+·~·~··-··-·--··-··-··-··-··-·._··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-·+. .
I 
.~ 1 
1 . · 
I 
I 
i 
i i 
i 
(Patent Pending) i 
Underneath Belt Motor Driven Lathe. 
i 
i
SouthBend Precision Latbes· · 
. for 
' INDUSTRY LABORATORY . ScHooLs 
51 ,000 in .use in the ·United States ·and 88 foreign· countri_es. · · Establlsh~d .. Lathe·riulldcrs · In l!JOG for. 25 years 
J 
·souTH:BEND.. LAT~E ·woRKS i -· 
425' E. Madison St. South Bend, Ind., U.S. A. .i ' ' J 
+.~..-..~..-a·-··-··-···-··-··--·-··-··-··-··-··~··--·--·-·+ 
-[ 108 ]~' 
.... --...
-----------·---~ 

-~ . -' " . ~ ~ . . ~ ,' . . ' . . . " . . 
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEw-1931-University of N olre Dame 
1932. Schedule Announc·ed j'-·-·-··-··-··-~~-··-~~-~~-··-··-~~-·-··-··-··-··-··-r 
= 
·Definite .scheduling of th~ ·Navy gam~ for Cleveland . !.. 
at the erid of the past season completed the Notre Dame . I . 1932 ·schedule which was announced lasf:spring. · I 
The card remains just as hard and as colorful as in the past. Indiana and Pennsylvania are the only two teams on the 19~ 1 card not to appear in 1932. · No date could be arranged with the Hoosiers but they will be back in 1933, according to present :plans. Haskell and. Kansas replace th~se two. Following is the card: 
·Oct. 8-Haskell at Notre Dame. 
Oct. 15:_Drake at Notre ·Dame. 
. Oct. 22-Carnegie Te~h at Notre Dame. 
Oct. 29-Pittsqurgh at Pittsburgh. · 
Nov. 5-Kansas at Lawrence. 
Nov. 12-Northwestern at· Notre Dame. 
· Nov. 19-Navy at Cleveland. · 
Nov. 26--;-Army at New York.· 
Dec. · 1 0-Southerri Ca~if~rnia at Los Angeles. 
Attendance at Notre Dame games was 429,000 a3. I compared_ with 528,000 in 1930. At games away from 1 home, the crowds dropped off 105,000; but at home con, -~ i 
tests they picked 'up .6,000..Rain at Chicago hurt 'the. :,' _. 
. ~ttendance at the Nort_hwestern game. 
Notre Dame lose~ only_.eight of it~ 31 lettermen from the 1931 squad. Capt~ ·Yarr, Schwartz, Culver and Hoffmann are the only· graduating first team men. 
Compliments of • · 
_Ray T_-.~nnes Mo__ ~or i 
. AUTHORIZED
(QD· 
. DEALER 
! 2451 N.· Sacramento_ Av_e. CHICAGO l'.·. . Phone qapit~l 1100 · _ . ~.-··-·--··-··-··~··-··-··-··-··-·--··-··--·--~---·--~+ +·-·-----··-··-··-·-----·--·~·~·--·--·--·--·--··-!·-"--+I . . . . . . . . . I J Many notable men, l~ng since .graduates of.Notre j
i
i 
J 
.I (Ou~ New : i Store) 106 S. Main Street : =, 
.j._,._,,_,,_.._,._,._.,_,._,._,~_:..:.._,_,.:..:..:.._,.--:-"--=:"''....:..~ ­
Dame. fro?I ·all corners of the. U. S. A. j contmue to wear our clothes. j · 
'There is a reason.. I 
· · · '· J. ~-(ij) · . · · . : · j . . .. · . . ~IN._c.•
-~-. __ I . 
1 
IMPOR'TIN.G 'TAILORS j 
+·-·-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-·-··-··-··-··~··-··-·:-·-·-·-··-··-··-·-··-··--··-~·-·~-·..:....··-··-··-··._·--~+
i . . i i .· j . 
i ROCKN:E l 
. I 
. Amazin~_ reproduction of famo':i:ts ·No~~ Dame Coach exactly · 
~ I 
:_ · .· _like ~pictl:lre. _Antiqtie· ivory ~r bronz·e finish. . i . 
../ . 
· ·. 10 in. high._: IdearBook Ends. . i .. .· : i-. ·$1.00 Direct· frorri faCtory 
By· a marvelous process, we ?ave embodied in this beaut~ful statu·e' · · the-startling likeness· of. Rockne in one of his characteristic· poses. ·· · · Every home ·-should have: this masterpiece of the craftman,~ 
.ar't-·the :most colorful-football coac4 and.sports~an of all times. 
·send money order, draft or a· 9ollar bill by registered maiL 11oney
. . . 
back if you are not satisfied. Extra· fine, ·special process of bronze 
finish. ·If you order a set for· Book Ends, price is $1.75 a pair. 1 Order today. I 
. I I K. ·R. Manufacturing· Co.1 Dept. 15, 190 N. State St., Chicago, Illinois 
· I .. -1 
+-··-··--·-··-··-:-··-··--·-··-··-··--··--·--·-··--·-··-··-··~··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-·~--·-··-··-··--·--·-··-··--·-·+ 
-[ 109 ]­


·. ·. . . ·•· --~-·-·~---~· ·-"--~~~~ 
1:-: ­
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEW-1931-Universii.Y of Notre Dame 
11The Next Step11 
(Continued from page 67) 
And, finally, this field house will be peculiarly fitting as a memorial to Knute Rockne because it will carry out a dream that lay very close to his heart. .It will fill a need that he realized more keenly than_ anyone else: the opportunity for the student to co-ordinate physical de.. velopment with mental training through recreation and exercise in indoor sports and games. In snort, the Rockne memorial field house will reinforce the entire educational program of th.e university by providing athletic and recre.. ational facilities for every· student. 
The site which Notre Dame has set aside for the Rockne memorial is a perfect one. The building, on the eastern axis of University road, will stand on old· Cartier field-ground sacred to many generations of Notre Dame athletes-adjoining the stadium and facing a wide plaza that will extend the width of the campus. The approach from the west will be magnificent in its sweep. 
The memorial, in modified English Gothic, will present a rugged and impressive outline, strong in mass and sim.. ple in ornamental detail. The exterior walls will be of Indiana limestone laid up in random ashlar. Three mas.. sive stone arches, closed with decorative grills and doors of aluminum, will form the main entrance. Above these, carved in deep relief, will appear the name, "'Rockne Memorial." Panels of figures representing the major sports will balance this on each side. 
On entering, one will walk through a great hall, beamed and panelled in oak. Here will be kept the Book of Memory, in whi~h will be recorded the names of those 
+·-·--··-·--··-··-··-·--··-··-··-··-··-··-·--··-··-··-··-~+
i 
j 'The Fightin' Irish-j 
A Scrappy Bunch! 
CROWN STOVE 'WORKS 
4631 West 12th Place 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 
1 
I
+;-.11-tll-tl-tl-lt-••-··--·-··--·--·--·-··--·--·-··-----·-·+i 
who have made the Rockne memorial possible. Across the foyer, three arched entrances will lead into the trophy· 
I 
room, where the large collection of trophies of interest to the public will be kept on permanent exhibition. To the .}eft will be the Rockne memorial room, a lofty, oak.. panelled hall, 60 feet l~ng and 40 feet wide. A: deep stone fireplace, embellished with the seals of various uni.. versities, and the softened light streaming through stained· glass medallions set high in the windows, will help to make this a warm and friendly room. Here the pictures, papers, and mementoes pertaining to Rockne's life will be carefully preserved for ~he benefit of the public. 
The main wing, 90 feet long and 60 feet wide, will be occupied by the apparatus gymnasium for the Physical Education school: the corrective exercise gymnasium, and the medical examination rooms. The west wing will con.. tain the swimming pool for intercollegiate races. This pool, 75 feet long and 35 feet wide, will be lighted by skylights ·and equipped with the latest devices for filtra.. tion and for the sterilization of water by ultra.. violet rays. 
Other rooms will include offices for the business man.. ager, the director of athletics, and the coaches. The main locker room will provide for the needs for a thousand students. On each side of this will be located the seven handball and squash courts. Two exhibition courts will each have seats for a hundred spectators. Nearby will be the handball and squash courts reserved for the faculty; four basketball courts will occupy the second floor. Passage is arranged throughout the building so that vis· itors may inspect its most· interesting· features without coming in contact with the players. 
+·-·--··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-:~·-··-··-··-+
Ii 
CONGRATULATIONS 
j 
'THE BOOK SHOP 
I 119 N. Michigan St. 
i .
+-··-··-··-··-··--·-··-··-··-··-··--·-··-··--·-··-··--·-·+ 
.+·-·--··-··-··-··-··-·--··-··-··-··-·---·-··-··-··-·,_,,_.+! . I 
i j
i 
i
i Compliments of. 
i 
i A Friend
i i I
i I . 
I I
1 I
+-··-··--·--·-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··--·--·-··-··--·--·-·+ 
-[ 110 ]­
~ ' • ' • • • • * -• ' • • • : • • • • 
OFFICIAL FooTBALL REVIEw-1931-Universil_v of Notre Dame 

But the South Bend assault could make no headway from ·either chance. It was always met by a counter~charge (Continued from page 05) of forwards and backs that wrecked any chance for an 
Notre Dame fought back bitterly after the first Army score, but her charge came too late. An inspired Army team had gotten the jump and an inspired Army team held the jump all the way through. On three occasions Notre Dame had the Cadets in a tough spot, threatening to score, but on each occasion a swarm of Army's charg~ ing defensive stars broke through to spill the runner for a loss. When any danger theratened, the Army defense was impregnable. 
After the first Army touchdown, the big crowd began to wait for the Notre Dame attack to get started. But human flesh can't force its way through a steel wall, and that was what the Army line was today. It never gave way. Price, Summerfelt, Trice, Suare4 and the entire lot more than held their own with Notre Dame's mighty force of forwards. 
And if one of these slipped, there was Kilday, Brown or Stecker blocking up the hole, barring the road, with some of the fiercest tackling the game has ever seen. No~ ·tre Dame was unable to get Schwart4 loose or to put on a passing attack that would stand up. There was always an Army man in the way, ready to bat down or inter~ cept the ball. 
Notre Dame had two fine chances to score. One on a recovered fumble deep in Army territory at the. start of the game, the other on a forward pass penalty for in~ terference which put the ball on Army's 12~yard line. 
advance. It has been seldom in football history that any Notre Dame attack was so completely halted, when Notre Dame's blocking system was so badly ripped apart. While Ray Stecker, one of the star backs of the year, was the outstanding feature of the day, his mates were 
not far below him. The work of the entire Army line was of the highest order. The defensive play of Kilday and Brown was outstanding. It so happened that Notre 
Dame in this game met one of the great football teams of the year, one of the strongest and one of the most alert. 
+·-·--··-··-··-··-··-·--·--··-·--··-··-·--··-----·-··-··-~+ 
Frank J. Powers, M. D. 
University Physician 
Office at University Infirmary 
Hours: 12:30 P.M. to 4 P.M. 
' 
+-··-:·~··-·~~-··-··--·-··-··-··-··-··-··-··--·-··--·--·-·+ 
T·-··-------··-··-··-··-··-·--··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-·.-·~~-··-·--··-··-··-··-··-:·-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-·......Jt
I 
PEERLESS PRESS 
PRINTERS and. LITHOGRAPHERS 

Printers of 1931 Official Football ~view 
"ROCKNE MEMORIAL" EDITION 
232 South St. Joseph St. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA Telephone 4-1133 
+··----··-··-··--·-··-·•-•i-••-··-··-··--·-··-··-··-··-··-··--·~··--·-··-··-··--·_,·--·-··-··-··-··-··--·-··-··-·~-··--·--+ 
-[ 111]­
~ 
~ 
...... 

. Ul't.·. •. ~. .r!· .
..· g··0 
(•l 'hiA . • .-. ' 
:iJ,ith the team 
P-EERLESS PRESS, SOUTH BEND, IND. 
~~ 









