IJcar.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY^ AT NOTRE U^VNTE. fewM b ike of the Jiudorts.
“ IL ABOR OlkCVIA. VINCIT.”
Vol. II. UNIVEESITY OF NOTEE DAME, IND., NOVEMBEB 28, 1868.	. No. 13.
Arithmetic.
BY C. J. L.
There ig scarcely any necessity of stating that Arithmetic is quite an ancient as well as important science.
Poor little Grecian and Hebrew boys had to plod along its difficult ways, which were not levelled down, graded, as they are now. They had to plod along wearily, as it were on foot, but we drive along at railroad speed. They, poor fellows, had no arithmetical machines to do their multiplication for them; but by combining their alphabetic representatives of numbers, and being very careful too with that even, they could, after filling up more space than is usually occupied by a large sized slate, obtain the product of 7689 by 168. The poor boy had to be very particular about his alphas, betas, gammas, etc., and be a little careful, too, about his iota subscript. The poor Hebrew urchin, obliged to listen to some long-winded dissertation of some very ) learned pedagogue, had to keep his eyes and ears open so as to see, and hear too, whether his worthy Professor had given out simply kaph (k) or kaph (k) final. Their Aleph, Beth mels were scarcely as convenient as our 1, 2, .3. The Latin Junior, too, who would fling around his stylus in any careless manner, or forget to put a line over his V, would in this latter • case make a mistake of only 4995, for both of which his poor knuckles would no doubt smart considerably; They were not troubled with slates,—slates were too cumbersome; abaci— or rectangular tablets strewn with sand, so that that they could with their chubby fingers make grooves therein, and express by their calculi pebbles the number of sheep that the governor
bought' that morning,—took the place of our Minims’ nicely gotten up little slate and very sharp-pointed pencil. It is not necessary to go away back before the Christian era either to find our little, or our big urchins—children of a larger growth—using their counters or tablets similar to the old Boman abaci, for they were in use throughout Europe as late as the fifteenth century, and it is said were in use in Germany as late as the seventeenth century. I believe that we have a relic of the same system in our primary schools—in the shape of the lines of beads strung together, or rather over one an-, other, on a wire frame. This is held up before the class, and by skillful manipulation the little fellows work into their heads the result obtained by adding 8 units and 9 ditto.
There was a time when the system by counters was very much in vogue; and that was not so long ago. Many distinguished gentlemen have improved on the system of working arithmetic by counters, and although they all are only improvements on the bld method, they are dignified by the name of inventions. Napier’s rods were among the best machines ever invented; boys could get at a product of very large numbers in a very short time, and when once conversant with their use the amount of labor to be performed by the brain was quite limited. We think the Professor of the Third Junior Arithmetic should procure a set; when passing his room the other day, we saw the poor Juniors looking very grum about a very hard example in multiplication. It would be far more agreeable to manipulate those beautiful rods and obtain the answer without being necessitated to know all about that hard table—than be compelled to ransack memory’s cells to discover how much 9 times 7 are, and then to be forced to burthen poor memory again with the number to be carried to the next product. Saunder-
98	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
son’s calculating table was also a very ingenious contrivance, and expedited and simplified the labor of those poor unfortunates for whom it was intended—the blind. His table was a board about a foot square, divided into square inches, each square inch having quite a number of holes, into which pins of larger or smaller sizes were put according as the numbers to be indicated was 0 or some digit We' fear, however, that if that system were in use among us now, our cute Yankee youths would either be making a fortune retailing pins at a low price, or, by some such practical joke .as causing their neighbor to' squat suddenly on the sharp end of one of the counters would cultivate some voices—in a short time, too—sufficiently to enable them, without difficulty to singB-flat. EvenLiebnitz, a celebrated man in his day, and whose celebrity has not yet died away, did not think it beneath him to invent a machine by which numbers could be multiplied together. However ingenious and adapted to the times those machines were, they, as we became more advanced ,in the ways of science, gradually disappeared, until at present we depend more and more on that great machine invented by the Almighty Himself—the mind. Still no one can deny that as aids to bring out the latent power of the mind they were very beneficial It is especially evident that they were useful, when we remember that the present or decimal system of notation was not in use, ' but that the poor fellows who attended schools long, long ago had either a binary-quinaryduodenary, or like scales.
The method of counting on the fingers, and expressing by means of the hands and fingers the number of objects conceived by the mind, seems to be a very ancient and very natural method, so natural in fact that little boys, even in our best schools, use their fingers to aid them in carrying to the next column, or of finding the sum of two awkward numbers, as 9 and 8. Many suppose that the expressing of numbers in that way gave rise to our present very nearly perfect system. We say very nearly perfect system, because in the concrete or denominate numbers we have a different set of systems from the one .used in abstract, and some concrete, numbers. If the operation in the denominate numbers were performed by the decimal system, our arithmetics would be much simplified. However, as it is very hard to discard old customs, there is no ■yery great likelihood that we will do away with the cumbersome methods now in use. The United
States Government did make. an attempt to introduce the decimal system through the country, and passed a law to that effect; but, owing to the aversion of the people to the innovation, the law is a dead letter. Boards of Trade throughout the country met and passed resolutions discountenancing the introduction of the system. And why ? On account of the apparent difficulty of learning new names for certain quantities of material objects to which they had already given names.	x	.
Now it is true that the introduction of the"new system among merchants generally would necessitate a restudying of their Arithmetic; and as man is naturally a proud animal, and always wishes to appear to know everything, it would of course wound his pride if some other man should ask for fifteen metres of cloth, or a litre of wine, and he the merchant should not know how much of either article to give his customer. Still, if the system were taught in our schools, the present generation could learn it as easily as, if not more easily than, the one now in use, and so the way would be paved for its introduction in the future; and there is not the slightest doubt that hereafter some little Minim, or larger Junior, or full-grown Senior, when considering the difficulties under which his ancestors labored, and the ease with which he could perform the work which to them was so hard, would in the sincerity of his heart thank us for having so materially lightened the burthen which he otherwise would have to bear. But this digression in favor of the introduction of the French or decimal system has led ns a little out of our historical path.
[to be continued.]
Colonel Gumpev on Daniel W^ebster.— “Daniel Webster,’’ remarked old Colonel Gum-pey, as he trimmed a quid of niggerhead and fastened it securely between two decayed teeth in the left side of his mouth, u Daniel Webster was a great man.- There wa’n’t nothin’ mean about him. I’ve beam him talk, but twa’n’t his. talk so much as his ginerosity that tuck me. He had a kinder careless way like, that kept him from gettin rich. He never seemed to think what things cost.. I was a-comin’ up the Hudson river along with him once, and in the morning Daniel Webster and me washin’ our faces and and slickin’ our ha’r in the cabin, and he'took out a tooth-brush and brushed his teeth. I didn’t
I
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR. .	99
see no other' tooth-brush around, so I borrowed, his’n. And after I used it I handed it back to him, and what do you think? Why, Daniel Webster just slung the tooth-brush right into the river. And I s’pose next day he went and bought a new one. That’s all he cared about money! There ain’t no such men as Daniel Webster living now,” concluded the colonel, meditatively, as he spirted a stream of tobacco juice into the fireplace at the other end of the room.
The Key to Happiness.
BY AN OLD CONTRIBUTOR.
“ Give me the key to happiness!” Thus cried a merry wight, As the sunlight played on each glossy tress, And gleamed on his forehead bright :
And the answer came with the power to bless, “Do thou always what is right J"
Years flew by, and the youth obeyed The mandate given the child,
And ever the beams of the sunlight played On his forehead, so pure and mild;
For the trust he held, he had never betrayed To the curse of a world defiled.
This was his pledge of happiness.
Old age came, and the sunshine fell, At last, with a cheerful light, ■ Ona new-made grave, in a quiet dell, Where the frosts came ne’er to blight, Here slept in joy, in that sylvan cell, One who always had done right.
His soul in the home of happiness.
LECTURES ON HISTORY. .
Second Lecture—[Concluded],
The Roman Empire under the Pagan Emperors.
How well they succeeded in forming a numerous body of Christians we may know from this, that before their death the tyrant Nero thought it worth his while to stir up against them the first general persecution, during which these venerable apostles, besides many others, suffered martyrdom. If anything were needed to inspire the Romans with respect for the new religion, the fact that it was persecuted by such an abandoned character as Nero must have done so ; for whatever was persecuted by such a bad
I man must have had something good in it. Thus it was that God made use of the very wickedness of Nero to show to the world the goodness of His holy religion..
From this first persecution under Nero until the time of Constantine, that is, for about three hundred years, the Christians were almost constantly in a state of- persecution by the government and the citizens of Rome; but there were certain periods when this persecution broke out in a more violent manner, and these periods are distinguished especially as The Persecutions. At these times the Emperors issued their decrees that the Christians should be brought to trial, and that if they would persist in their profession of Christianity they should suffer death. So for three hundred years fell those numberless martyrs whose memory has been celebrated in the Church from that time until this.
To avoid the vigilance of those who were watching to take their lives, the early Christians were forced to assemble in caves beneath the ground to offer up their prayers and the holy sacrifice to Almighty God. These caves, or catacombs, hollowed out in the bowels of the earth, were at the same time their churches and their burial places; here reposed the bones of the martyrs who had sealed their faith with their blood; and here ascended the prayers of the survivors -for the welfare of themselves and the conversion of their unhappy countrymen. And here it was, very often, in there dark places, lit up only by the tapers on the altars, that the people were surprised by their cruel enemies, and dragged to the judgment seat to undergo the mockery of a trial which was to be followed by their death. Now we are privileged to build our churches above ground with their pointed towers stretching far up into the light of heaven; but the memory of the old catacombs is not forgotten by the Church, and the very lights upon our altars while giving glory to God and adding to the beauty of the .sanctuary, remind us of the dark places where once the sacrifice was offered and where their feeble light was necessary.
The second general persecution took place under Domitian, the second Nero, as he is sometimes called. It was during this persecution that St. John the Evangelist was plunged into a cauldron of boiling oil, from which he escaped unhurt. As the first Nero had been the first persecutor of the Church, so it was fitting in every respect that the second persecution should take place under the second Nero, that the people of
100	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
God should grow strong when they perceived the wickedness of their persecutors, and that thousands of pagans should be converted for a like reason. Thus does wickedness defeat its own ends. From this originated the saying that the blood of the martyrs w^s the seed of Christians; for never did the Christians increase so fast as during those blo.ody persecutions under the wicked Emperors.
But it was reserved for Trajan the greatest of the Roman Emperors, and in many respects one of the best, to put the only blot upon his own fair fame by legalizing the persecution of the Christians. He seems to have been under the delusion that they were secret conspirators against the empire. At least this is the only charitable’mo-tive we can allege for the cruel manner in which he authorized the third general persecution. His first order was a general one that there should be no private assemblies during the night. This was intended to prevent the Christians from meeting at the only time when they dared to celebrate the holy mysteries. Afterwards he seemed to modify the rigor of the laws by decreeing that no one should search for Christians; but that if any should be discovered they were,to be punished. Among the illustrious martyrs of this persecution were St. Clement of Rome, St. Ignatius of Antioch, and St. Simeon of Jerusalem, the latter of whom was nearly related to the family of our Blessed Saviour.
The fourth persecution took place under the reign of that Emperor whom the world in general have agreed in calling the best and wisest of the Emperors, Marcus Aurelius. Prejudice early imbibed and long fixed in the mind will distort the judgment of the most, virtuous. Thus it was that the last of the five good Emperors, whose reign was a blessing to the empire and whose maxims of wisdom and virtue reflected credit upon'human nature, persecuted’ men before whose heavenly virtue- bis own natural virtue paled, as does the lamplight before the blaze of day. The best of us should never forget these sad examples of Trajan and Marcus Aurelius, from which we may learn how much evil prejudice the poison of the soul may do when we fail dispassionately to examine both sides of the question and condemn as a crime what may be a virtue. The most illustrious martyr of this persecution was St. Polycarp.
A short respite took place in this persecution, which was owing to one of the most remarkable events in the history of Rome. The Emperor led
his army into the mountains of Bohemia, where they were hemmed in by the mountains on. one side and on the-other by a formidable enemy. They were besides fainting for want of water, which they had not tasted for five days. To advance or retreat was. impossible, and to remain stationary was to perish with thirst. In this extremity one of the legions of the army which was entirely composed of Christians fell upon their knees in prayer, when a copious shower of rain descended upon the thirsty army. But this rain, so refreshing to the Romans, drove furiously against their enemies, like a. tempest, of hail, ac-‘companied with vivid, flashes of lightning and
dreadful claps of thunder.
The emperor grateful for this protection ordered that the persecution of the Christians should cease, and that the memory of this miraculous event should be preserved by engraving upon the Antonine Column which was then erected, and which may be still seen in Rome. This celebrated legion of Christian soldiers was afterwards known as the Thundering Legion.
But the truce occasioned by this striking event lasted but a short time. In three years the fourth persecution recommenced more violently than ever. Numbers perished in various portions of the empire, especially in Lyons and other parts of Gaul.	■
After the death of Marcus Aurelius the Christians enjoyed about twenty years of peace. Under the detestable Commodus, as.well as the virtuous Pertinax, and also during the first years of the reign of Septimius Severus, there was no persecution. But about the year 200, after twenty years- of rest, the demon of persecution felt in-_clined to try, for the fifth time, to destroy the followers of Christ. This persecution, under Septimius Severus was one of the most sanguinary that had yet taken place, and extended over the whole empire, but chiefly in Gaul and Africa.
The sixth persecution took place under the barbarous Thracian Maximin, who had obtained the purple. by the murder of that amiable Em- -peror Alexander Severus.
The seventh persecution lasted during the Whole of the three years and a half of the reign of Decius.	' ,
The eight persecution soon followed under Valerian. Among its victims were St. Stephen of Rome, St. Cyprian of Carthage, and St. Lawrence who was barbarously roasted to death over a slow fire, that his torture might be the greater. Valerian was himself severely punished for his
I
THE SCHOL
A STIC YEAR.	101
barbarities. He was captured by the king of Persia, who for ten years used him as a stepping stool to mount his horse, and then flayed him alive, and ordered his skin to be hung as a trophy in one of the Persian temples.
The ninth persecution under Aurelian failed to become so general as the former had been, in consequence of the sudden death of that emperor.
But all the persecutions that had heretofore taken place were mild- in comparison with the tenth and last, which occurred under Diocletian. This emperor formed the resolution to utterly extirpate the Christian name by putting to death . every Christian in the empire. The persecution raged with great fury for three years, when Diocletian growing weary of empire, resigned his power into the hands of the savage Galerius, the implacable enemy of the Christians.
But an end comes to all things, and it came to the persecutions. The Christians had not been destroyed, but had increased to great numbers. Nero, Domitiari, Trajan, Aurelius, Severus, Maximin, Decius, Valerian, Aurelian, and Diocletian, . the' bad, the good, the great, the weak, the savage and the gentle emperors, had all tried in vain to exterminate the followers of Christ; but the constancy of the martyrs only increased the fervor of their surviving brethren, and even, by admiration of their gentleness, their heroism, -and their goodness, won multitudes of converts from the pagans themselves, so- that the Christians increased in numbers much faster, and were much more faithful to their belief than if there had been no persecution. Truth cannot be destroyed by opposition. It rather becomes purer and stronger by the persecution of its enemies.
“ Truth crushed to earth will rise again, The eternal years of God are hers;
But error, wounded, writhes in pain, - And dies amid her worshippers.”
Thus writhed and died paganism in the very blood which it shed; thus rose Christianity from - the ashes, purified by the fires in which it had suffered for three hundred years. From the west - came its deliverer, Constantine, a Briton by birth and by descent on his mother’s side, as he was a Roman on his father’s side, by his descent from the emperor, Vespasian. Constantine, the young emperor of the west, soon levelled the last bulwark of the.heathen gods, and established everywhere the worship of the hitherto persecuted Christians. The year 312, the date of Constantine’s entry into the Eternal City, bearing before
him the banner he had seen in the heavens, is the second great era of Christianity, the era of its public toleration.
- (Revised Poems.)
No. II.—Rural Life.
BY FANCIULLO.
Let tender natures loll in fragrant shades, -Or count their weary steps through flow’ry glades;
Let weaker minds admire the lovely sight, When Summer’s sun bids nature sweet good night;
But give to me the snow-clad mountain side, ■ Whose bracing air arouses manly pride,—	_
And tunes the soul to sense of pure delight, While parting day contends with coming night.
Let festive cheer resound iu lordly halls, • And nice young ladies sigh at fancy balls;
Let hair-brained youths decay in the saloon, ’' Orin their sickly wit play smart buffoon;
But in my ears let Ho 1 and horns resound; -And woodlands ring with hayings of the hound;
While hill and dale repeat the huntsman’s cheer And rouse the cunning fox or timid deer.
Let book-worms pallid grow in theirfond task, The hidden face of Science to unmask:
Let demagogues sit by the midnight lamp, -And on the morrow’s pregnant speeches champ; *
But give me freedom in the crystal air— Let icicles hang pendent in my hair, While nature opes her book, as bld as time, Where I may read, unwearied, truths sublime.
Let.those who will attenuate their frame
In mad pursuit of pleasure or of fame;	.
But I shall plant the rosy bloom of health
Upon my cheek, more worth than golden wealth;
My soul, unshackled, shall, with nature's light, Above the stars pursue its daily flight, Till taught by nature what are nature’s laws 'Twill rest adoring in their First great Cause.
A Conceited coxcomb, with a very patronizing air, called out to an Irish laborer: “Here, you bog-trotter, come and tell me the greatest lie you can, and I will treat you to a glass of whiskey.” “By my word,” said pat, “an’ yer honor’s a gintieman.”	’
Curtis, in his sedgwick oration, used the quotation, “Ubi Libeftas, ibi Patria.” A short-hand reporter “took him” all right, but, in writing out his notes, made him say, “You be Liber-tas, I be Patria,” and thus it was printed. ■
Some one has started the preposterous theory that baldness may be cured by transplanting hair from one head to another. .	‘	- -
I
102	'	THESCHOU College Bulletin.	.STIC YEAR. 1 1 ' “ the play in question is a beautiful one, in four acts, and comprehends thirty-five roles. ' We will give an outline of the play in some future number, and as soon as its performance is over we intend to publish it, as we have done “ The Recognition.” "	. A class of Hebrew will be commenced on the first of December. A class of Italian will begin as' soon as a sufficient number of students apply for it. A Moot Court was held in Washington Hall, by the united St. Aloysius Philodemic and St Edward Societies on Wednesday the 18th inst., and the business attending the trial of the case before the house was carried on in a truly courtlike style, occupying all the time between 9 A. M. and 5 P. M. The whole transactions of the,Moot Court^will . be published as soon as the reporters send in their notes. Last Wednesday we received an invitation to attend an “ oyster supper” given by the members of the “ Two-Penny Club,” on the occasion of the celebration of their first anniversary. " We cheerfully accepted the kind invitation; we always accede to such requests when there is a prospect of spending a social hour with our friends.	, At the appointed hour we repaired to the dining hall'of the infirmary and were welcomed by the smiling club? There we met among other invited guests our rev. and dear President, whose genial soul was all a glow with happiness. There too was the rev. Vice-President his cares of office forgotten for a time to enable him to classify and arrange oysters, pepper, vinegar, and salt as well as salt, vinegar, pepper and oysters,—and, would you believe it—the Prefect of Discipline was there, sans “Detention bills,” sans frowns and scowls, sans everything of the kind. One thing . however he acknowledged that he did bring along, a good relish for oysters stewed and raw. But to come to the point, I mean to the supper,—r judge of my surprise at seeing—oysters ? Not at all; I expected to see and eat some of them— but a bountifully and beautifully spread table literally breaking beneath the luxuries of the season. (Allow me to say in parenthesis that the “ aforesaid” table did not break. Perceiving the danger, I eat many hungry oysters that necessi-
A.ri’l"val of Students at; IK. Dame. November 25th. William H. Heist,	^Kendallville, Ind. November 26th. John C. Carmody,	Georgetown, Ill. Oliver J. Tong, ' Chicago, III. George H. Jenkins,	Brooklyn, N. Y. Charles E. Jenkins,	Brooklyn, N. Y. November 27th. August L. Fox,	• Fort Wayne, Ind. “ ■ - Saturday evening, 14th inst., the students of the Junior Department were visited by the members of the' Orchestra of the University, who for nearly two hours delighted the ears of their youthful hearers by their excellent performance. ’ With few exceptions, among which we noted the “Barbiere di Seville,” the selections were the same as those played a few weeks before in the Senior study hall. We need not say that the Juniors feel grateful for this musical treat, and acknowledge with thanks the kind attention - of the gentlemen of the Orchestra	'	• The twenty fourth Sunday after Pentecost, being the anniversary day of the consecration of the church of Notre Dame, the offices were celebrated with more than usual solemnity. The music of the college band was particularly good, but the chief musical display was Haydn’s .seventh Mass which - was executed by the choir for the first time.	. We have no pretension to criticise; moreover, we think it useless, since every listener has an opportunity to do it; we wish only to praise our musicians, both instrumentalists and vocalists, and congratulate them on their perseverance and continued improvement. The Play “If I were a king,” acted at Notre Dame two years ago by the members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society, will be performed by the members of the same Society on the 15th of December. .The parts have already been distributed, so that no time will be lost and no class interfered with. We heed, not say that	
	
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	103
tated the rapid consumption of chicken, pickled tongue and cake, as well as a plural number'of cupfulls of tea, for the oysters were very dry, as they had been some time out of water.) During this part of th§ programme there were sun dry witty remarks passed, jokes cracked, and finally speeches made.’ Every one, or nearly every one, made a speech or told a story, which elicited either the due amount of admiration or a genuine laugh as the case might demand. I will not single out any speech or story, time and space will not admit of it; but all passed off pleasantly, so very pleasantly indeed that we hope the “ Two-Penny” - will have two or more anniversaries every year,
and that we may be an invited Guest -----------------------«•------ ■ -
First Senior Grammar Class.—The examination passed last week by the First Senior Grammar Class so ably taught by Professor J. A. Lyons, reflected great credit on the class and its teacher. Nearly all the members were found competent to join the composition class formed in the First Grammar. The spirit of the class is excellent and great hopes may be entertained concerning our future rhetoricians.
The members who now compose the class are: - J. Mader, C. M. Wenger, C. Sage, W. Montgomery, E. Fitzharris, J. Morrisson, J. Ryan, J. Wilson, F. Nicholas, H. Beakey, J. Gavitt, J’ ' Vocke, E. D. Hagan, T. A. Kinsella, J. M. Duffy, S. Ryan, L. Schmeider, C. C. McCarthy, C. H. Menard, P. Rhodes, J. Logan, J. J. Page, P. Fitzpatrick, T. Downing, T. Watson.
Fourth Grammar Class Jr. —This class, the first of the regular educational series, is well patronized and in very good working order. Quite a number of the students display capacity of a very superior order, and show assiduity and industry, which, considering the nature of the study as well as other circumstances, are in the highest degree praiseworthy and commendable. It is an old saying that one reaps as he sows. .In proportion as the young gentlemen of this class are attentive to their studies in these the happy days of their youth, in the same proportion will .they profit in their higher studies, and their way in after-life be rendered easy and success certain. The honorable mentions wdll shortly show who have been the most faithful and laborious students. Energy and perseverance will always win honor, respect and fame.
A Visit of Prof. A. A. Griffith.
Prof. A. A. Griffith was our welcome visitor on Thanksgiving Day. His coming among us chimed well with the cheerfulness of the day. We like to see our talented Professor of Elocution, we delight to listen to his glowing gems of oratory. An hour passed at one of his readings is certainly an hour of intellectual pleasure which deserves to be prized highly. Therefore we think it our duty to return our sincere thanks to the Professor, who by giving us one of his readings last Thursday rendered doubly dear to us the remembrance of Thanksgiving day.	■
Professor Griffith paid a visit to St. Mary’s Academy in the afternoon of the same day, and there recreated the young ladies by reading some of his choice selections.
Both at the Academy and at the. University, the Professor received warm applause, showing how .well he was appreciated. We regret his hasty departure, which disappoints many of our students who expected that the classes of Elocution were to begin at once.
The classes of Elocution will be taught, as usual, at the beginning of the second session; let all be prepared for them.
We hope to see Prof. Griffith soon again, and enjoy a little longer his presence in our midst.
We intend, to publish soon the lists of our Classical, Scientific, Commercial and Preparatory Courses, classifying each student according to the grade which he occupies in the course to which he belongs.
This order will be followed in future in our Annual Catalogue.	'
Very Rev. Father Sorin happily reached the shores of France after a short sea voyage of nine days and nineteen hours. His health during the rough trip was excellent.
Honorable Mention.
First German Sr.
P. Rogers, Wm. A. Walk, J. Wilson, F. Ingersoll, P. Cochrane.	■
Second German.
L. Wilson, G. Atkinson, J. Coffey, T. Watson, T. Lapin, H. Beakey, J. Page.	■
Third German Sr. .
F. Crapser, R. L. Akin, P. McCarthy, R Cod
j
104
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
dington, J. M. Montgomery, F. Wyman, A. Combs, J. S. Gavitt, J. O. Mosley.
. Third Germam Second Drv.
D. J. Diemer, L. G. Dupler, H. Wrape, H. C.
Allen, D. A. Clarke. -
'	First German Jr. ■
J. Eisenman, D. Wile, A. Hemsteger, M. Foote,
L. Billing J. Orb, J. Rumely, H. Hug, J. Rbem. Second German.
Translation:—J. Staley, R. Staley, C. Duffy, j. McGuire, J. Crevoisier.
Theme:—R. Staley, J. Crevoisier J. McGuire,
“ N. Mitchell, J. Klein, A. Wile, J. Krauth, W-Willstach.	.
Third German. ' ■
Grammar:—L. Hayes, R. Broughton, J. Gillespie, J. Deehan, C. Berdel, C. Hutchings, J. Falley, D. Eagan.	.
Writing :—A. Wile, J. H. Falley, J. H. Ward, C. Berdel, J. Mulhall, D. Eagan.
. Heading:—A. Wile, A. Trumpff, R. Broughton, L. Hayes, J. Gillespie. .
JFaINT ^ARY’S JU ADE MY.
, Saint Mary’s, Nov. 24th, 1868.
Ajfi’ivals. .
Nov. 17th, Miss E. Smith, Worcester, Mass.
Nov 23d, Miss M. Dillon, Chicago, Ill.
Table of Honor, Sr.
Misses J. Hynds, A. Mulhall, A. Kaiden, O. Brady, E. Tracy, S. Thomson, R. Rettig, E. Lindsay, L. Leoni, N. Leoni and Bl Gardiner ■
. Honorable Mention.
Graduating Class: Misses Lizzie and Laura Tong, E. Longsdorf, K. Livingston, K. Cunnea, A. Ewing, E. Crouch, M. Toomey andF. Hosmer First Glass Sr: Misses N. Taber, E. Kirwan, M. Morrill, J. Dobson, M. Mukautz, M. Johnson, M." Alexander and L.* Lewis.
Second Glass Sr: Misses F. Thomson, C.'Foote, A. Carpenter, M. King, E. English, T. Lafferty, K. Carpenter, W. Corby, N. Sherburne, N. Wilder. A. Walker, T. Vanhorn, M Ogle, K. Armstrong and L. Chamberlain.
Third Glass: Misses M. Tuberty, H. Neil, A. Boyles, N. Simms, M. Kirwan, M. Shetland, K.
Kent, A. Fulwiler, A. Wiley. F. Stevens and M. La Brash. -	.
First Preparatory Glass: Misses A. Mast, E. -O’Brien, A. Lyons, J. Gittings,' M. Foote, S. Cooney, M. Rumely, M. Cochrane, M. Lasson, J. Lonergan, S. Coffee, E. Henry and Cora Warner.
Second Preparatory .Glass: Misses C. Edwards, K. O’Toole, M. O’Toole, H. Sprochnle, J. Davis, A. Minnick, E. Simms, K. Cline, M. Vanhorn and M. Minor.	~
Third Preparatory Glass: Misses J. Denny, L. Blaizy, C. Hoerber, IM. Clune, A. Matthews, J. Davis, A. Deugers and E. Siely.
French.	.
First Class: Misses K. Livingston, L. and L. Tong.
Second Glass : Misses L. Lewis, A. Mulhall and J. Hynds.
Third Glass: Misses N. Tracy and M. Toomey.
Second Division: N. Leoni and S. Thomson.
• German.
Misses E. Crouch, R. Mukautz, B. Meyers and E. Henry.
.	Drawing.
Misses L. Lewis, IM. Alexander, A Carpenter, M. Bader and C. Heckman.
Orga i: Miss D’Arcy. -Instrumental Music.
Harp: MissesM Shetland, C. Davenport, and E. Longsdorf.
.. Piano.
First Glass: Misses E. Longsdorf and C. Foote.
First Class, Second Division: Misses A. Walker and M. Shetland. -
Second Class: Miss Chamberlain.
Second Glass Second Div : Miss M. Johnson.
Third Glass: Misses E. Ruger and.R. Rettig.
Fourth Glass : Miss H. Neil.
Fourth Class Second Div: L Ingersoll, L. Corning and E. Chesebro.	.
• Fifth Glass: Miss S. Dunbar.
- Table of Honor, Jr.
Misees S. Thomson, M. Bader, A. Boyles, A. Metzger, M. McNamara, A. Byrne, A. Garrity and M. Reynolds.	.	.
. Honorable Mention. ,
Third Preparatory Glass: Misses M. Letourneau, A. Robson and B. Meyers.
First Junior Class: Misses J. Wilder, L. McNamara, B. Frensdorf, F. Taylor and S. Dunbar. ’
Second Junior Class: Miss K. Former. .