}
Jotre Dame Scholastic.
DIsee quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Voluma XII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 5, 1879.
Number 31.
The Image of Death.
Before my face the picture hangs,
That daily should put me in mind, Of those cold names and bitter pangs
That shortly I am like to find;
But yet alas! full little I
Do think hereon, that I must die.
I often look upon a face
Most ugly, grisly, bare, and thin;
I often view the hollow place
Where eyes and nose had sometime been ;
I see the bones across that lie,
Yet little think that I must die.
I read the label underneath,
That telleth me whereto I must;
I see the sentence too, that saith, ‘ Remember, man, thou art but dust.’
But yet, alas ! how seldom I
Do think, indeed, that I must die I •
Continually at my bed’s head
A hearse doth hang, which doth me tell
That I ere morning may be dead, *
Though now I feel myself full well;
But yet, alas ! for all this, I Have little mind that I must die!
The gown which I am used to wear,
The knife wherewith I cut my meat;	.
And eke that old and ancient chair,
Which is my only usual seat;
All these do tell me I must die,	■
And yet-my life amend not I.
My ancestors are turned to clay,
And many of my mates are gone ;
My youngers daily drop away,
And can I think to ’scape alone ?
No, no; I know that I must die, And yet my life amend not I. . .
If none can ’scape Death’s dreadful dart;
If rich and poor his beck obey ;
If strong, if wise, if all do smart,
Then I to ’scape shall have no way:
.Then grant me grace, O God! that I
My life may mend, since I must die.	—Southwell.
—“ Don’t write there,” said a father to his son, who was writing with a diamondion a window-pane. “Why not? ” “ Because you can’t rub it out.”
Do people think that what they are daily writing, by impression, on the minds and hearts of those around them, cannot be rubbed out? If they did they would be more circumspect in their words ana actions. All your words, all your acts are written in tlie book of memory, in characters more or less ineffaceable. Be careful! some of those which are bad perhaps can never be rubbed out.
A Visit to Point St. Ignace.
B¥ G. H. COCHRANE.
In the summer of ’77, a jolly party of us started from Chicago, on the beautiful steamer Fountain City, for a trip around the Lakes, intending to visit such places as by their beauty or interest attract the seekers after pleasure or health, or both, that push out into the bracing air of the lakes during the summer months. Of cours^, Niagara was the objective point, or great centre of attraction, to our party, as to others, but the remembrances of the noisy falls, one of the great natural wonders of the world, do not, I feel certain, exclusively occupy the minds of tourists. There are quiet, picturesque, well-shaded nooks along the banks of Lake Michigan some of which will live for years, perhaps for a lifetime, in the memory of those who have once had the pleasure of visiting them. I have as yet seen nothing in print to favor the idea that I am not alone in thinking so, still I am none the less sure that many will coincide with me.
Among other, pretty places that we touched at along the route was the village of St. Ignace, a little port situated southwest of Mackinaw, on the Strait of Mackinaw, between Lakes Michigan and Huron. The village is small, and secluded among the trees, but attention is drawn towards the spot by a strange-looking freak of nature resembling a human form. It looks very small from the lake,—not more than six feet in height,—but on approach ing nearer it assumes gigantic proportions. It is a massive rock of lime-stone, surmounted with some shrubbery and small trees. It stands near the road, about half way between the Church of St. Ignace and the site of the old Jesuit Mission, and is one of those queer conformations of which several remarkable specimens may be seen on the Island of Mackinaw, and others on the shores of Lake Huron and Michigan, within a distance of about six miles of St. Ignace. The explanation that Very Rev. Father Jacker gives of these strange-looking piles is, that being more solid than the surrounding ground, they remained firm when the less consistent strata were washed away.
The Mission of St. Ignatius (St. Ignace de Michilimack-inac), unpretending as it seems, is still a place of historic interest, having been founded in the winter of 1670-71 by Rev. Fathers Marquette and Dabion, the illustrious Jesuit missionaries and explorers. The place was then deserted, but many years before had been inhabited by a large Indian tribe, called the Mishinimakinagog, from whom it evidently takes the long appendage to its Christian appellation of St. Ignace. The Indians who came with Father Marquette from La Pointe (Lake Superior) were of the Huron tribe, and called Tionontates, or the Tobacco Nation.
486	THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Their descendants, the Wyandots, are at present in the Indian Territory. A few years later a large number of Ot-tawas settled here, whose descendants may still be seen in Lower Michigan and on Manitoulin Island. They left St. Ignace for Detroit soon after the settlement of that place, in 1701. From 1705 down to the end of the last century there was scarcely any population at this place. At this latter period some French Canadian settlers began to collect and build up the present village.
The Church of St. Ignatius is an old and romantic-looking brick structure, about seventy-five feet in length by twenty-five feet in breadth, in the Gothic style of architecture. It was built by Rev. Father Bonduel, a missionary in Mackinaw, about 1838, more than a century and a quarter after the destruction of the old Mission Chapel. From its location, the church presents a very picturesque appearance, hemmed in by grand old stately pines, and with a fine lawn in front sloping down to the water’s edge, a distance of about fifty feet. On entering the church, attention is soon riveted by a large and really artistic painting over the main altar. It is about twelve feet high and six feet broad and represents a young man clad in the garb of the Society of Jesus—apparently a scholastic—and from the familiar surroundings anyone the least versed in hagiography would at once say it was St. Aloysius Gonzaga. Young, handsome, the heir to high titles of nobility, estates, and an honored name, he nevertheless by a significant gesture expresses his contempt of earthly goods, pleasures and honors; and with peace, joy and tender, seraphic love depicted on his countenance, he gazes up to the image of his Crucified Redeemer, as if saying: “Thou, O Jesus, art my only love.” The book of the Spiritual Exercises (Exer-citia) lies on the table before which he kneels. At the side of the open volume is seen a skull and discipline, and behind it the crucifix. Before him, on the floor, are various objects, mostly emblematic, on the one hand of worldliness and vanity, and on the other hand of ecclesiastical honors. They consist of the ducal crown of the family, silver coins rolling from a bag, a mask, a soldier’s helmet, a guitar, shield and breastplate, and a Cardinal’s hat. This painting was bronghtfrom France, with several other treasures of art, some years ago—all of them for the adornment of the little Church of St. Ignatius. On looking at this really fine and life-like painting for a while, the beholder would almost imagine that the young Saint had actually descended from his throne in heaven and knelt before him, so life-like and perfect is the picture even in its minutest details. The painter’s name is not known, but it evidently comes from the hand of a master. Thousands have visited this place, not a few able art critics and artists being among the number, and they have pronounced it one of the finest masterpieces in the United States. Two other paintings which came with this one (alluded to in the art treasures above) are smaller, but excellent pieces of art-work. One of these represents our Lord nailed to the Cross; the other, the Blessed Mother of our Divine Redeemer. These pictures are suspended over the side altars, and present a very pleasing effect. With the exception of these few treasures, the church is furnished as most country churches are, in a plain but neat manner, with plain pews, the ordinary Stations of the Cross, etc., etc.
Altogether, we were much pleased with our visit to the Church at Point St. Ignace, and the fact that the mission was first established by the renowned Father Marquette makes it much more interesting to us.	I
Very Rev. Father Jacker is the pastor at St. Ignace, as well as, at present, we believe, administrator of the diocese of Marquette, and to his amiability and kind condescension the writer is particularly indebted.
The Works of Palestrina.
The indefatigable choirmaster of the Ratisbon Cathedral, Rev. F. X. Haberl, is now engaged on a work of truly colossal proportions, and which will band down bis name to admiring posterity and contribute powerfully to the revival and perpetuation of genuine Church Music. Some months ago he published a circular which obtained a wide circulation, under the heading “ Prospectus of a Subscription for a Complete Edition of the works of Giovanni Pierluigi da Palestrina,” in which he says: “The renowned publishing house of .Breitkopf & Hartel, in Leipsic had for some years past been elaborating a plan for giving to the world a splendid monumental edition of all the works of the immortal master and “ Princeps Mu-sica,” Palestrina, so called. Six volumes are nowjready, beautifully brought out, in exactly the same style as the world-renowned editions of the works of Bach, Handel, Beethoven, etc. By a contract entered into with the undersigned, Breitkopf & Hartel undertake to publish all the works of Palestrina, about 36 volumes, by the year 1894, the tercentenary celebration of Pierluigi’s death, provided 300 subscribers can be found to constitute a Palestrina Society. I therefore earnestly hope that yourself and friends may join in this undertaking. The only condition stipulated is that as soon as the requisite number of subscribers shall have been found, each shall pay a yearly subscription of 20 marks ($5). In return the subscribers will receive each year two volumes of from 160 to 170 pages, large folio size, and can eventually obtain from me the six volumes already published, at 10 marks ($2.50) each. This subscription is not enforced until the full number of 300 subscribers is completed. Payment beforehand will not be received. As soon as the undertaking is guaranteed by the required number, the subscribers will be immediately made aware of it. On receipt of each volume, post-office order for 10 marks ($2.50) should be forwarded. In conclusion I beg to refer to a detailed article on the subject in the Coecilien Kalender for 1879. I have the honor to sign myself
“Your devoted servant,
“F. X. Haberl, Kapellmeister.
“Regensbueg, iOth October, 1878.”
This modest circular gives a very inadequate idea of the work undertaken. The 36 volumes will comprise all the Masses of Palestrina, 93 in number, of which only 16 have ever been published in modern form. These will occupy from 14 to 16 volumes. There will be 6 or 8 volumes of motets, over 400 in number; 1 volume of Hymns for 4 voices; 2 volumes of Lamentations, for 4, 5, and 6 voices: 1 volume of Magnificats, for 4, 5, 6, and 8 voices; 1 volume of Litanies, for 4, 6, and 8 voices; and finally, from 2 to 3 volumes of Madrigals, for 4 and 5 voices. These volumes, moreover, are brought out in Brietkopf & HSrtel’s best style, large folio size, on splendid paper, and printed from clear, distinct music type. Again, the privilege accorded by our late Holy Father to Father Haberl of examining and copying the archives of the Sistine Chapel—a privilege denied to all previous petitioners— gives the advantage of being able to guarantee the authen
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	487
ticity of the genuine works of Palestrina, as well as to eliminate all that might be doubtful or spurious. The Rev. Editor has authorized J. Singenberger, Professor of Music and President of the American St. Cecilia Society, St. Francis Station, Milwaukee Co., Wis., to receive subscriptions for North America. Such as wish to subscribe should therefore send their names and addresses to him, and he will forward them to Father Haberl without delay. Should any wish to have the six volumes already published, he will undertake to order them.
Ecclesiastical Colleges and Seminaries and musical libraries should not be unprovided with this splendid work, and the smallness of the subscription, spread over such a long period—15 years—will doubtless complete the list of 300 in a very short time.
The net price of each volume to subscribers in the United States is $3.50, including the expenses for carriage and delivery, etc.; to non-subscribers, $4.75; so that subscribers save $1.25 on each volume, or $45.00 on the entire work.
Letter from California.
[The following is a second letter written by Judge Fuller to Very Rev. Father Sorin. We published his first letter last week.]
Marysville, Cal., March 20th, 1879.
Dear Father General:—Some incidents in connection with the execution of the Chinese murderer, here, the other day, and with the perpetration of the crime, may give you some additional insight into the character of this peculiar people. The culprit had burglarized a dwellinghouse in the night time, and was in th’e act of plundering it, when the owner was awakened, and the burglar slew him. His faithful Chinese servant came to the rescue of his white master, and although too late to save his life he attacked and overpowered his criminal countryman, and held him fast until relief came. This evinced a very strong attachment, as a principle, in the Chinese character. For this act the servant was ostracized by the masses of his countrymen; and so furious their malignity seemed, that it was thought necessary for the sheriff to protect him by giving him an asylum in the jail. All this malicious demonstration seemed to arise from no feeling of kindness to the culprit, for they abandoned him as an outcast, from the outset, to the law’s demand, and paid no attention to his incarceration, trial, conviction, and execution. But five Chinese attended his execution, apparently from idle curiosity, as they laughed and jeered during the solemn ceremony, as do the idle spectators of some common show. The cause of this antipathy to their fellow who held the culprit, delivered him to the officers of the law, and appeared as principal witness against him, seemed to spring from their aversion to have one of their people subjected to the laws of the white man. They have laws of their own, to the tribunals of which they submit all the difficulties arising between themselves, and never appeal to the courts of the State. Generally, they are peaceably disposed, and always treat the whites respectfully to their faces, but steal from them when opportunity offers, and are as noted for chicken-stealing as the negro. When they are closely watched they make the best servants that can be obtained, indoors or out of doors, always giving strict attention to business, in a quiet and unostentatious manner; and as a general thing the people are kindly disposed towards those that are here, and would be very unwilling
to part with them, though they say we have enough of them now and do not care to have any more thrust upon us. This is the sentiment of the better class of society. In fact they are an ingredient of society that cannot well be dispensed with. They never patronize saloons, hence saloon-keepers are opposed to them. They are ever ready to work for reasonable wages, at any kind of service they may be set to work at; and thus receive the opposition, scorn and hatred of the hoodlums, idlers and tramps who are unwilling to stoop to labor for less that $5 per diem. But I have swung away from the first points I started with
The evening before the execution, the prisoner was interviewed through an interpreter. When asked why he killed the white man, he said: “Me no kille he—he kille me.”
“Why did you go there ? ”
“Me nothing to eat. ’Melica man give no work: me starve.”
“ Are you sorry you killed him ? ”
“No! mekilleyou!”
“Do you know you have got to die to-morrow for it? ’-“Yes.”
“Do you believe in a future life?"
“May be go to heaven; may be go to hell.”
“Where will you go to-morrow night, after you are hanged?”
“ Me go all around then; where me want to go.”
He stood erect upon the platform, under the gallows, without uttering a word, as stoical as a North-American Indian.
My kind regards to all enquiring friends. Hastily, as ever, yours, etc.,
E. G. Fuller.
St. Patrick’s Day at St. Joseph’s College, N. B.
Editor of the Scholastic :—Ireland, through all her sorrows, has been fortunate beyond most countries in her wealth of pure, fervent and lasting love, received from millions of generous hearts. The patriotism of her sons is strong and ardent, and the descendants of no other race cherish the land of their fathers with an affection so deep or glowing as that which the children of Irish exiles entertain for lovely but unfortunate Erin. The beauty of her natural scenery, the verdant valleys, lovely glens, murmuring streamlets, picturesque lakes and noble rivers; as well as her historic life, the glory and magnificence of her Christian infancy and childhood, the darkness and gloom, the persecution and misery of later ages, encompass the Green Isle with a halo of loveliness and a charm of mournful interest which irresistibly move the heart to sympathy and love. Hence, though the great majority of the English-speaking students of St. Joseph’s are Irish only by descent, there is no festival in the scholastic year that they await with more eager expectancy, or celebrate with more animated enthusiasm, than the gala day of the Emerald Isle—the Feast of St. Patrick. The students of ’79 imitated those of all former years in making due prep arations for the proper observance of the day, and the result of their exertions was most satisfactory. Never before, perhaps, was the celebration of the feast here so completely successful.
Of the religious exercises, grand High Mass in the morning, and Solemn Benediction in the afternoon, it was emarked that the singing of the choir was unsually good,
488	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and the ceremonies were carried out with perfect order and harmony. The sermon was preached by Rev. H. J. McGill, C. S. C. It was a truly eloquent and patriotic production, and in every way worthy of the occasion. Omitting the minor enjoyments in which the afternoon was spent, we will speak here only of the grand feature of the celebration—the Entertainment given in the evening, by the members of St. Patrick’s Academy. Although the roads were bad, and the weather was disagreeable, a large and appreciative audience assembled to greet the young gentlemen, confident, no doubt, that the excellence of the seance would amply compensate them for the inconvenience experienced in reaching the Hall. The Entertainment began at half-past seven with a Quickstep by the College Band. This piece, as well as the others with which the Band favored us, was very well rendered. Mr. Jas. Mclnerny then appeared, and, in a neat opening address, briefly stated why he and his companions loved to celebrate this festival, ever dear to the Irish heart; solicited the attention of his auditors during the rendition of the programme, and concluded by introducing the orator of the evening, Mr. David R. Harnett. The discourse, on “ The Heroism of the Irish,” discovered considerable depth of thought, and an intimate acquaintance with Ireland’s history. The composition was elegant, and was gracefully delivered. There is always something noble and exalting in the generous impulses which sway the soul and prompt the utterances of a youthful patriot; something refreshing in his ardent admiration of the good and true; something convincing in his indignant protest against injustice and tyranny^ Besides this, there must have been something contagious in the chivalrous enthusiasm and impassioned fervor with which Mr. Harnett, “ glancing with prophetic eye through the mystic curtain which veils from our vision events to come,” traced the outlines of Erin’s glorious future, for his retiring bow was the signal for a perfect storm of well-merited applause. Next in order was a chorus, “The Fire-Bells are Ringing,” given with fine effect by the members of the Philharmonic Society. Then came the drama, “The Disappointed Gastronomer,” which was very favorably received. A notable and praiseworthy feature in its performance was the entire absence of that hesitation and distressing awkwardness so often remarked in amateurs. Mr. W. A. Dolan, who assumed the principal role, showed a good conception of his part and frequently “ brought down the house.” As an amateur light comedian, Mr. Dolan does remarkably well, and ever proves a favorite of the audience. Mr. D. Harnett, as landlord, was perfectly at home. Messrs. O’Brien and Owens were easy and natural; and Messrs. Mclnerny, Mc-Phelim, Carney, Walsh, Duffey and Morris took the remaining characters in such good style as to render the play a complete success.	-
The drama was followed by a piano solo by Prof. E. Rin-quette, executed in the usual faultless manner of that talented artist. “ Kathleen Mavourneen ” was admirably sung by Mr. H. R. O'Connor; the same gentleman later on in the evening played a cornet solo with considerable skill. A French play, “Le Fils Adoptif,” was acted in a manner evidently satisfactory to all. Messrs. Robichaud, Belliveau, Leblanc and others, who took part in it, impersonated their characters with much truth, and were loudly applauded. Declamations were given by Messrs. Dolan and Owens. The selection, of the former, “Three days in the Life of Columbus,” is perhaps rather difficult for an amateur, still
several portions were finely rendered. Mr. Owens declaimed “Count Candispina’s Standard” with animation, and elicited much applause. He possesses a graceful appearance, and a good voice; with a little more attention to gesture he promises to become a pleasing and effective speaker. A selection from “Faust” by the Orchestra, was deemed worthy of an encore, which was responded to with equal ability and success. Following this came “The Man with the Demijohn,” a farce with a moral. The repeated outbursts of merriment on the part of the amused spectators must have convinced Messrs. Dolan, Carney, Owens and Walsh that they were doing “immense.” A living tableau, representing St. Patrick, concluded the programme.
The closing remarks was made by Rjv. Father Foley, of Moncton, N. B. He expressed himself highly pleased with the exercises of the evening, complimented the gentlemen who had appeared on the stage on the creditable manner in which they severally acquitted themselves of their parts, and tendered them the thanks of the audience for the delightful evening they had spent. Our Very Rev. Superior, C. Lefebvre, C. S. C., also congratulated the performers on their excellent acting and the general merit of the Entertainment. The Band then struck up “ St. Patrick’s Day,” and to its enlivening strains the audience dispersed all well pleased, and loud in their praises of the evening’s enjoyment.	Hv Nial.
St. Joseph's Day at St. Laurent CoHege, Canada.
Mr. Editor :—St. Joseph, the great protector of the faithful, being not onljr the Patron of the Universal Church but also in a special manner that of Canada, and of this institution of learning, his ever-welcome feast was celebrated this year with great pomp and joy. On the St. Joseph Literary Association—a society lately organized in the Commercial Department of the College—devolved the pleasant and yet arduous task of carrying out the extensive and varied programme of the day, and most successfully did they accomplish their task, as the sequel will show. No sooner had the light of the rising sun dispelled the night’s darkness from our college home, than the students, large and small, were called from their peaceful couches to prepare for the festivities of the day. At 6% o’clock, a low Mass was celebrated by Rev. Joseph C. Carrier, C. S. C., at which the members of the St. Joseph’s Association communicated in a body. It was a sight pleasing to the eye and giving joy to the heart to see such a fine body of young men, decorated with a very rich and tasteful badge, walking two by two, with clasped.hands and heads bowed down in silent prayer, to the Communion Table, and there partaking of the Bread of Life. A great many of the other students approached the Holy Table. At half-past eight o’clock a Solemn High Mass was celebrated by Rev. L. Geoffrion, C. S. C., our much loved and esteemed President, with Rev. E. Desfosses, C. S. C., as deacon, and Rev. Mr. P. Mannion, C. S. C., as subdeacon. The panegyric of the glorious Saint of the day was delivered by Rev. Jos. Carrier, C. S. C., formerly of Notre Dame University, but now our much respected and learned Professor of the Sciences. The eloquent gentleman kept his entranced hearers spellbound for over an hour; it was indeed a grand effort, which will be long remembered. The religious ceremonies for the morning being over, the students and the community, whose patronal Feast this is,
''	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	489 -
spent several hours in some delightful amusements. At 2 o’clock p. m. the members of the St. Joseph’s Association, with their invited guests, proceeded to the refectory, where a most sumptuous feast had been prepared for them. It is needless to say that ample justice was done to the ।	various dishes under which the tables groaned. When the
,	wants of the inner man had been fully satisfied, Mr. J.
Kelly, President of the Association, arose, and in a few neat words announced that the intellectual part of the ban.	quet was now to be proceeded with, and he thereupon in-
troduced amid great applause Prof. T. Russell as toastmaster. The following were the principal toasts given:— “ Christian Education,” responded to in a very able man-
■	’ net by Rev. E. Meahan, 0. S. 0., our worthy Vice-Presi-
dent; “The Day we Celebrate,” by Jas. Kelly, President of the St. Joseph’s Association; “The Sciences, ever the Handmaids of Religion,” responded to in an admirable manner by Rev. Joseph C. Carrier, C. S. 0.; “ Our Sister Societies,” by Rev. A. McGarry, C. S. C., the learned Professor of Moral Philosophy; “Absent Friends,” by Rev. Mr. James Mahon; “The Press,” by Rev. Mr. Coyle; “Ireland,” by Mr. J. F. King. The other toasts were responded to respectively by Messrs. James 0. B. Kelly, 0. P. Hurley, J. Cassidy, S. Madore and R. W. Fitzgerald. Prof. N. Vian played some beautiful pieces on the violin, and Messrs. Martin, McLaughran and R.- Cullen favored the company with some choice songs.
“ The feast of reason and the flow of soul ” were not quite over when the College bell called us to the Chapel, for it was within a few minutes of 6 o’clock—the hour for the solemn Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament. The appearance of our Chapel—a real gem, by the way—particularly at that sacred moment, was simply superb; the high altar, as well as that of St. Joseph, was one grand mass of both natural and artificial flowers, lighted up by a hundred tapers, while the walls were decorated with flags and streamers. The sweet peals of the organ, mingled with the clear voices of our well-trained singers, added much to the solemnity and beauty of the hour. In the evening there was a seance, or Entertainment, given by the brave and clever members of the St. Joseph’s Irish-American Literary Association. The drama, “The Cross of St. John,” was performed with great success; all played their parts well. Messrs. Kelly, Cassidy, Fitzgerald, Laughran and Martin deserve special notice. Parts in the drama were taken by Messrs. Richardson, Casey, Doyle, Keating, Sullivan, Mullin and McCarthy. I had almost forgotten to say. that the oration of the day was given by J. 0. B. Kelly, and that excellent music, vocal and instrumental, was f.	furnished by Messrs. Keating, Mullin, Martin, Laughran
and Prof. Vian. The side-splitting farce, “ The Coal-Heavers’ Revenge,” was performed in grand style. Messrs. Goulet and Keating acted as coal-heavers, and kept the whole audience in roars for half an hour. The other characters were personated by Messrs. Kelly, Casey, Richardson and Doyle. The last scene was a very fine tableau— “ The Adoration of the Magi.”
The closing remarks were made by Rev. Jos. C. Carrier, C. S. C., who, in his usual happy style, congratulated the young gentlemen on the great success they had achieved, and expressed the hope that the celebration of the Feast of St. Joseph by the members of the St. Joseph’s Association in future years would equal the present. Great
* praise is due to Prof. T. Russell for the zeal-he displayed and the efforts he made to render the celebration of the day
a success. Rev. Mr. Jas. Mahon, Professor of Rhetoric, deserves also much commendation for the pains he has taken to the same effect. Thus passed, Mr. Editor, one of the pleasantest and holiest days in thie calendar of our memory—a day whose pure and intellectual reminiscences we will long fondly treasure in our heart of hearts.
_________ _____________ MacD.
Thanks to the Arabs.
To the Arabian mathematicians we are indebted for the most valuable improvements in arithmetic, if not in fact for its invention. They also transmitted to Europe the knowledge of algebra; and rendered still more important service to geometrical science by preserving many works of the ancients, which, but for them, had been inevitably lost. The elements of Euclid, with other valuable treatises, were all transmitted to posterity by their means. The Arabian mathematicians of the middle ages were the first to apply to trigonometry the method of calculation which is now generally adopted. Astronomy, optics, and mechanics were cultivated with no less success; and to the Arabs especially must be accredited the origin of chemistry, that science which has been productive of so many invaluable results. This gave them a better acquaintance with nature than the Greeks or Romans ever possessed, and was applied by them most usefully to all the necessary arts of life. “ Alchemy ” is an Arabic term, denoting a knowledge of the substance or composition of a thing. The transmutation of common metals into gold and silver, and the discovery of an universal medicine, were futile pursuits; but they led to the method of preparing alcohol, aqua fortis, volatile alkali, vitriolic acid, and many other chemical compounds, which might have remained much longer unknown but for the persevering labors and patient experiments of the mediaeval alchemists. History records many laudable efforts on the part of the Arabians in cultivating the natural sciences. Abou-al-Ryan-Byrouny, who died in the year 944, travelled forty years for the purpose of studying mineralogy, and his treatise on the knowledge of precious stones is a rich collection of facts and observations. Aben-al-Beithar, who devoted himself with equ d zeal to the study of botany, traversed all the mountains and plains of Europe in search of plants. He afterwards explored the burning wastes of Africa, for the' purpose of describing such vegetables as can support the fervid heat of that climate; and finally passed into the remote countries of Asia. The animals, vegetables, and fossils common to the three great portions of earth then known, underwent his personal inspection; and he returned to his native West loaded with spoils of the South and Eist. Nor were the arts cultivated with less success, or less enriched by the progress of natural philosophy. A great number of inventions which at the present day add to the comforts of life are due to the Arabians. Paper is an Arabic production. It-had long, indeed, been made from silk in China, but Joseph Amrou, carried the process of paper-making to his native city, Mecca, A. D. 649, and caused cotton to be employed in the manufacture of it first in the year 706. Gunpowder was known to the Arabians at least a century before it appeared in European history; and the compass was also known to the fourteenth century. A brilliant light was spread by literature and science over the vast countries which had submitted to the yoke of Islamism. But the
490
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC].
boundless regions where that power once reigned, and still Continues supreme, are at present dead to the interests of science. Deserts of burning sand now drift where once stood their academies, libraries, and u niversities. Throughout that immense territoiy, more than twice as large as Europe, which was formely subjected to the power of Islamism, and enriched by its skill, nothing in our day is found but ignorance, slavery, debauchery, and death. Herein we have a striking illustration of the wonder-working of Providence. At a time when the nations of Europe were sunk in comparative barbarism, the Arabians were the despositaries of science and learning; when the Christian States were in infancy, the fairest flowers of Islamism were in full bloom. Nevertheless, the sap of Mohammedan cizilization was void of that vitality and of those principles which alone insure eternal progress—the principles of Christianity.—Exchange.
Scientific Notes.
—Mr. Finney, a London dentist, claims to have found a filled tooth in the jaw of an Egyptian mummy. Dentistry was further advanced four thousand years ago in Egypt than is supposed.
—It is slated by L. Thollon in the Comptes Rendus that by the use of his newly invented spectroscope he has observed a displacement of the solar rays perfectly well defined and evidently approaching the results of calculation.
—A recent number of La Nature describes a simple and convenient night lamp, the invention of M. Behn, indicating the hour by the extent of combustion of the oil During the night one can see at what height the oil stands in the tube and read the corresponding hour.
—Dr. Angus Smith claims to have made the interesting discovery that charcoal absorbs gases in definite volumes, the physical action resembling the chemical. Calling the volume of hydrogen absorbed 1, the volume of oxygen absorbed is 8; that is, while hydrogen unites with eight times its weight of oxygen to constitute water, charcoal absorbs eight times more oxygen by volume than it does hydrogen. The specific gravity of oxygen being sixteen times greater than hydrogen, charcoal absorbs 8 times 16, or 128 times more oxygen by weight than it does hydrogen, and so on.
—Intelligence has been received from India of an important geographical discovery. The course of the Sanpu, or great river of Tibet, has been surveyed by one of the native explorers attached to the Indian survey for a distance of two hundred miles eastward of Chetang, the furthest point to which it had hitherto been traced in that direction. It then turned southward into some hills, which the explorer was unable to penetrate. This settles a wxata guoestio which has long excercised the minds of geographers as to the identity of the Sanpu and the Brahmaputra.
—The new Sevres Museum seems to be doing its utmost to afford valuable instruction to those interested in studying the history and the progress of ceramic art. During the last few months a methodical classification of all the examples exhibited has been accomplished, and each one is classed according to its historical and geographical position as well as with regard to its technical worth. For this purpose labels are attached to all the pieces, giving the date and place of manufacture and the marks on various pieces; so that a wide knowledge can often be gained of a subject merely from studying these labels, four thousand of which have lately been affixed.
—Herr von Krupp, of Essen, has patented an improvement in electric lamps, which is intended to regulate the position of the carbons. Instead of the usual clock-work a fan or fly revolves in quicksilver or other liquid; other parts consist of a magnetic coil and a break. These are so arranged that when the carbons consume away, and the magnetic current is weakened, the brake releases a disk
and the carbon points appoach each other’ The whole apparatus acts automatically. The lamp thus devised has been employed by Herr von Krupp in portions of his great factory at Essen, in Germany, and the results have been so satisfactory that the light is being extended to other parts of the establishment.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Col. Valentine Baker has published his narrative of the campaign in Bulgaria.
—“Montcalm and the Conquest of New France” is the title of Francis Parkman’s next volume.
—It is said that the Earl of Carnarvon has prepared, in the interval of leisure from official and other duties, a translation of the “Agamemnon ” of jEschylus, which will be published very shortly.
—Miss Annie Bigelow, third daughter of Hon. John Bigelow, after studying one year at the Cooper Institute, has been unanimously elected a member of the Academy of Design. She is only fourteen years old.
—A newspaper letter from New York says that Mr. E. C. Stedman recently received a letter from a rich lady, asking him to write for her a commendative poem on the occasion of her silver wedding, and informing him that if it suited she wouldn’t mind paying $10 for it.
—An appropriate monument to J. S. Bach has been reared in Arnstadt, Germany, through the efforts of H. B. Stade, music director. A sum of 12,000 marks was raised and expended in renovating an organ which the old master Bach opened in March, 1703, and played regularly until July 1,1707.
—A verbatim reprint of the “ Columbarium ” of Mr. John Moore, to whom Pope inscribed one of his epistles, is about to appear in London. The work, which is exceedingly rare, is of interest to naturalists, as showing the amount of variation produced by careful'selection for a long series of generations, and as the earliest English work on the subject of pigeons.
—Mr. Quaritch, the well-known bookseller and antiquarian, is about to publish a catalogue of English literature which will be a curiosity in its way. It embraces five Cax-tons, several books by other early English printers, the four folio Shakespeares, fourteen of the early quartos of single plays, and the volume of poems of 1640, as well as first editions of the poets and dramatists.
—The admirers of Cowper, the poet, who are raising a church to his memory at Olney, hope to see the foundation stone laid in a few weeks. Like all people who build churches, they want money, and it is to be hoped that they will get as much as the modest sum they want. Cowper, apparently, has no monument except a memorial window at Berkhampstead. A church is the safest sort of a monument he could have.—London Neus.
—Joachim, the violinist, is said to be apparently about 50 years old, of dignified presence and serious mien, who disdains all the usual personal adornments of the stage performer, dispensing with diamonds and full-dress suits, and entering upon his task with an air which unmistakably proclaims that he regards violin playing as an important and weighty matter, and not as a means of displaying musical gymnastics and tickling the ears of the multitude.
—Among those who will take part in the ten-day festival in connection with the Shakspeare Memorial Building at Stratford-on-Avon, beginning April 23, are Barry Sullivan, Mrs. Theodore Martin, Miss Kate Field, Miss Wallis, Mrs. Osgood, Mme. Antoinette Sterling, Mme. Arabella Goddard, and Mr. Stanley. The musical part of the festival will be under the direction of Sir Julius Benedict. Miss Kate Field will read a dedicatory address written by Dr. Westland Marston.
—Verdi is in Paris, and it is reported that he is writing a new opera on a libretto furnished him by M. Detroyat, editor of VEstafMe. There is, however, no reliance to be placed in these stories concerning this composer. As far back as 1846 he was to have written a “King Lear ” for London. He did not, but gave “Masnadieri” instead. Peri-.
i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	491
odically it is announced that he is to work on “Lear” or “ Nero,” and lately on “ Montezuma.” Verdi, with the exception of his “ Mass,” has composed nothing since “Aida,” and this is a long period for such a prolific man.
—The late Mr. Charles J. Wells, who died last month, in his 78th year, the author of the resuscitated dramatic poem, “Joseph and His Brethren,” which everybody praises now after its lying neglected for fifty years, was singularly careless of fame. In 1850, twenty-six years after the original publication, he was induced to make a revised copy of the poem; but in 1876, when Theodore Watts tried to get it from the poet, it was found that Wells had lost it, indeed he had forgotten its existence. When Mrs. Wells died the poet burned several volumes of verse that he had written. He was the friend of Keats, and wrote “Joseph” out of pique—to show that he, too, “ could do something ”—when their friendship, through a practical joke that Wells played on Keats’ brother, was interrupted.
—Under the head of “Irish talent abroad” a Paris correspondent writes:—“Joseph O’Kelly, the well known musical composer, made his debut at the Theatre Opera Comique, now fully equal as far as the talent of the maestri and the artists goes, to those of the Grand Opera. His exquisite opera, ‘La Zingarella,’ was received with enthusiasm by the public, and when the name of he composer was announced the applause was general. Mr. O’Kelly is the son of an Irishman, and belongs to a respectable family. He was born in France, and only visited Ireland at the O'Connell Centenary, where his cantata was sung in Dublin and more favorably received. Judging from his first opera the best judges predict success in the future. He was complimented after the representation of this charming piece by some of the most eminent critics and composers. Truly, this old Celtic race is irrepressible, and talent and genius seem to be an inheritance destined to replace all their ancestors were despoiled of in the way of worldly property.”
—The autobiography forms the first volume of the “Memoirs of Prince Metternich” now in the press.' The value of it is increased by the mass of documents appended. Of the fourteen books, two (I and VI) are biographical, two others (II and VIII) contain portraits of remarkable contemporaries—Napoleon, the Emperor Alexander, Louis Philippe, Canning, Carlo, Alberto, etc. The rest contain despatches and letters from monarchs such as Francis Joseph, the Emperor Leopold, the Emperor Nicholas, Frederick William IV, of Prussia, etc.; statesmen and notabilities, like Lord Stratford de Redcliffe, Goethe, Humboldt, Liebig, Rossini, Mezzofanti, etc. The eleventh book contains a memorial, with the title, “Mein Poli-tisches Testament.” To the many who know Metternich only as a politician it will be a surprise to learn that he was extremely fond of science, especially the exact sciences; to those who regard him as a pillar of Absolutism, that he was most anxious to revive the Stfindishce Verfassungen in the Austrian States.
Books and Periodicals.
Month of Mat ; or, A Series of Meditations on the Mysteries of the Life of the Blessed Virgin, and the Principal Truths of Salvation, for Each Day of the Month of May. From the French of Father Debussi, 8. J. Translated by Miss Elia McMahon, and Revised by a Member of the Society of Jesus. New York : The Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay Street. 1879.
This is a well-arranged and well-written little book. The meditations are short and to the point. All the great truths of religion are presented in a neat and attractive style, and the young man who makes use of it during the coming month of May cannot but derive much benefit from it.
Chambers’s CrCLOP^DiA or English Literature, A History, Critical and Biographical, of British and American Authors, with Specimens of their Writings, Originally Edited by Robert Chambers, LL. D. Third Edition, Revised by. Robert Carruthers, LL. D. In Eight Volumes. Vol. I.
Chambers's Cyclopaedia is, because of its thoroughness, a work wholly indispensable to the student of English Liter
ature. It has taken a place wherein it has no rivals. This “Acme Edition” is worthy of great commendation, being of that convenient size which must render it popular. It is published by the American Book Exchange, 55 Beekman St., New York, and the eight volumes can be had bound in cloth for $2.
—The April number of The Harp, published by John Gillies, Montreal, comes to us with a fine array of original and selected matter. The terms for this popular magazine are one dollar a year. Tae following are the contents of the April number: I, Celibacy of the Clergy; II, Good Friday (Poetry); III, Easter Time; IV, Easier Day (Poetry); V, St. Peter’s Pence; VI, A Protestant Prelate Pleading for Justice to Catholics; VII, The Protestant Reformation in England; VIII, The Life of Our Lord and of His Virgin Mother; IX, A Relic of Mary, Queen of Scots; X, Figures that Speak for Themselves; XI, Guillaum Garret O’Dugan Dang; or, Last of the Ulster Fairies; XII, True Wisdom (Poetry); XIII, Irish, English and Scotch Morals; XIV, The Selt-Murderer; XV, The Wild Geese; or, The R ipparees of Barnesmore; XVI, Dr. McHale as a Bard; XVII, Ned Rusheen; or, Who Fired the First Shot; XVIII, Chit-Chat; XIX, Children’s Corner; XX, Our Puzzle Corner; XXI, Facetiae; XXII, Music —Smile Again, my Bonnie Lassie; XXIII, Notable Anniversaries in April.
—The olive is named in the earliest account of Egypt and Greece; and at Athens its cultivation was taught by Cecrops, 1556 B. C. He brought the olive from Sais in Upper Egypt. It was first planted in Italy 562 B. C.
—Morand, author of “ La Capricieuse,” was in a box at the theatre during the first representation of that comedy. The pit loudly expressing disapprobation at the extravagance and improbability of some traits in this character, the author became impatient. He put his head out of the box and called, “ know, gentlemen, that this is the very picture of my mother-in-law. What do you say, now?”
—General St. Amour, who distinguished himself in the imperial service, was the son of a poor Piedmontese peasant, but he never forgot his humble extraction. While the army was in Piedmont, he invited his principal officers to an entertainment, when his father happened to arrive just as they were sitting down to table. This being an-nounctd to the General, he immediately rose and stated to his guests his father’s arrival. He said he knew the respect he owed them, but at the same time he hoped they would excuse him if he withdrew and dined with his father in another room. The guests begged that the father might be introduced, assuring him that they should be happy to see one so nearly related to him. But he replied, “ Ah, no, gentlemen; my father would find himself so embarrassed in company so unsuited to his rank, that it would deprive us both of the only pleasure of the interview—the unrestrained intercourse of a parent and his son.” He then retired and passed the evening with his father.
—During a storm one morning a large lantern on top of the elephant house in an American Zoological Garden was demolished, and pieces of the heavy glass fell into the cage occupied by the elephants. The female elephant, in walking around the inclosure, trod on one of the fragments, and, being in her bare feet, received a painful wound. She set up a howl that made the roar of the storm seem the sighing of a zephyr by contrast. Her companion was found to be comforting her as well as he could by trying to roar louder than she did, and by letting a halfpint tear of sympathy now and then roll down his trunk, which was wound tenderly about the wounded leg of the prostrate beast. Dr. Henry C. Chapman, surgeon to the Zoological Society, was summoned. She was secured by ropes and thrown on her side on a bed of straw—treatment which evoked from her some extra efforts in the roaring line. When Dr. Chapman began to probe softly around the wound with a lancet, however, she showed an elephant’s instinctive respect for a friend by ceasing her bellowing and holding the injured foot perfectly still. Dr. Chapman successfully removed the fragment of glass, stopped the flow of blood from the wound, and, in a few minutes, the huge beast was again on her feet, looking as amiable as a lamb.
492
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, -Atpril 5, 1879.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered npon the twelfth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence iu class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Euglossians’ Entertainment.
On Saturday evening, March 29th, the Senior members of the Elocution Classes of the University gave an Entertainment in Washington Hall, consisting of orations, essays, declamations, music, etc., thus affording to all who had the good fortune to be present a few hours of real intellectual and social enjoyment.
Promptly at seven o’clock the exercises were opened by the fine rendition of a selection by the N. D. U. C. Band; and then was sung, in a manner that merited an encore “The Dear Little Shamrock,” by Messrs. J. B. McGrath and T. W. Simms. These young gentlemen acquitted themselves well, and to us, at least, “ The Dear Little Shamrock ” appeared simply charming. An original oration on “Daniel O’Connell,” by Mr. P. J. Dougherty, was next on the programme. This oration on the great Irish Agitator and Liberator was one well worthy of appreciation. The orator depicted in words at once patriotic and eloquent the career of one of Ireland’s most famous sons, a man true to his country and his God, and admired by the civilized world—by his enemies as well as by his friends. Right well did Mr. Dougherty understand his subject, and right well did he succeed in engaging the minds of his auditors to the very close. His delivery was good, though at times evincing a little haste; his gestures were for the most part appropriate, and his general bearing animated, without affectation. A little more practice as to action and Mr. Dougherty will take a high stand in oratory.
The next on the stage was Mr. D. Donohue. This young gentleman read an essay on the “ Causes of Crime.” The subject matter, we must say, was good, very good—but much more could have been done as to the delivery, which was somewhat monotonous, and the speaker’s carriage a little stiff and informal. Mr. Donohue’s manner of argument is clear, and his excellent essay did his subject full justice. “The Cumberland” was then declaimed by A. Zahm, in a pleasing manner, after which Mr. J. Downey gave a selec
tion on “Ireland,” from Thomas Francis Meagher. The piece was well declaimed. Mr. A. B. Congar, in his usual agreeable style, rendered a very difficult piece entitled “ How he Saved St. Michael’s ”; there were, however, one or two hesitations -on the part of the declaimer, but when we bear in mind the short time Mr. Congar had to commit to memory this rather long piece we must say that he had it well. “ Avoid the Fiend ” was declaimed by E. E. Collins, as only himself can do it. The piece entitled “Revolutionary Rising” was well delivered by W. B. Mc-Gorrisk.
Mr. S. T. Spalding’s oration on “ Henry Clay,” besides being an excellent composition, was delivered in an easy and elegant manner. The speaker, having dwelt for some time upon the qualities of heart and mind that constitute a great man, introduced the subject proper of his oration in a manner that would do justice to a maturer mind.’ He portrayed Henry Clay as an orator and statesman surpassing in many respects Webster and Calhoun. Indeed his subject received proper treatment, and we think it one of the best orations of a student we have ever had the happiness of hearing in Washington Hall. When Mr. Spalding left the stage amid a thunder of applause, J. B. McGrath favored the audience with a choice reading, “The Gambler’s Wife.” This young gentleman evinces considerable power as a reader, and bjr a little more study promises well. Mr. McGrath also told the audience what he knew about “Donkeys” in a manner that caused many an irrepressible smile, general soberness having reigned so far at the Entertainment. This little change of affairs caused the advent of M. W. Bannon on the stage to be well received, and after the usual salutation .this young gentleman of talent began his oration on “Daniel Webster.” It is needless to say that the subject was well handled; like the other two orations, it was a masterpiece in its kind. The Band having discoursed some fine music, R. P. Mayer, T. Hale and F. X. Wall declaimed, in an agreeable manner, “The Pilot,” “Midnight Murder’’and the “Exile of Erin ” respectively. “ The Maniac ” was excellently declaimed by R. Russell, as was “The Dream of Eugene Aram,” by T. W. Simms. Mr. Simms has a good voice and by practice in elocution bids fair to outstrip some of his more disciplined brothers. Another declamation was called for by the programme, and to this J. P. Brice responded. He gave as his selection “Fontenoy ” in a manner that shows marked improvement particularly as to gesticulation. After this followed a piano solo—“Jack Frost Gallop ” (Warren}—by G. H; Cochrane. This piece was pronounced, by those competent to judge, well rendered, and stirred up the dormant powers of the musicians present. Last, but not least, was the declamation of “ Shamus O’Brien,” by P. J. Hagan. Mr. Hagan is an old hand at this piece, but we have never heard him render it so well as on this occasion. We have said “well,” and we might say excellent did he not a little overdo the thing. We would also advise that he end the selection as it is generally given in the books, and not as Lefanu wrote it.
The Entertainment was really one of the best of the kind ever given at Notre Dame, and much praise is due to the genial and accomplished Professor of Elocution, J. A. Lyons, who spares no pains to make whatever he undertakes a grand success. He is not afraid to put upon the • boards of Washington Hall what he knows from long experience and close attention to human nature will take well; hence the success that always attends his Entertainments.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	493
There is not one who may have the good fortune to be present at these Entertainments, that does not feel ■ highly pleased, and no word is ever uttered concerning them save that of praise or commendation.
The closing remarks were made by Very Rev. President Cprby, after which the Band struck up the “ Grand Finale,” and all left the Hall well pleased with the evening’s Entertainment, and with the assurance that at no distant day exercises of a similar nature would be given by the Junior members of the Elocution Classes.
•*»
The Classical Entertainment on April First.
Ou Tuesday evening last, April 1st, the students and faculty of Notre Dame were treated by'the more advanced members of the Classical Course to an Entertainment, the first of its kind that has ever been produced here. A veritable Latin play, one of Plautus’ own, "was presented in good shape,—not one word of English escaping the lips of the actors throughout the whole performance.
At seven o’clock, p. m., a goodly audience had assembled, and, as the character of the play had been carefully kept secret, and an English programme printed, all anxiously awaited developments. A mysterious silence had shrouded the preparation of the plays and absolute secrecy seems to have been enjoined on all those who took part; still, the unusual industry displayed during the last week or two by certain students not over-encumbered with that virtue, and the sudden popularity which Plautus seemed all at once to have acquired among our Latinists, gave room for conjecture among a few of the Seniors, and it was privately hinted that we were going to have a Latin play.
• When the programmes were distributed among the audience many and various were the impressions which they produced to the bulk of the English-speaking part of the audience there was the prospect of an able debate on an interesting subject, with some fun to wind up with, but to the few above mentioned the character pf that document was not one calculated to reassure the wary.
To those the present one immediately suggested the fact that the day was the 1st of April.
The programme reads as follows:
Music...............................N. D. U. Quartette
Recitation—“The Lover of Power”...........J.	P. Quinn
Debate—Question : “Is the Study of the Pagan Classics Preju-
dieial to Morality ? ” •
Affirmative.
J. J. Quinn .... L. J. Evers
A. Hertzog .... F. Devoto ....J. B. McGrath N. D. U. Quartette
Negative.............................
Personation—“The Slave Driver”.......
Music................................
Should time permit, the comedy of
THE TWO OFF’UNS, .
Adapted for the occasion, and now for the first time presented on the American stage, will be given. Dramatis Persona:
Don Heigho (an elderly gentleman of benevolent disposition, in quest of a long-lost son).......................A.	Hertzog
Monsieur Jul. Gasser (a gentleman of much leisure, principally in quest of a long-sought dinner)..................F.	Devoto
Dan Rusty.. 1 The Two Off’uns, who play a variety of tricks, Phil Coaster f	but are finally found out—
...................................J. J. Quinn and J. P. Quinn Sir Raoul (a gentleman who deals principally in chains, whips, etc., to whose tender mercies the Off’uns are consigned)............................J-	McGrath
) A gentleman whose mania for telling the truth Titaro Shnops >in season and out of season gets his friends into ) endless trouble)..................................L.	J. Evers
Rupe (a very versatile young gentleman, equally at home in camp and kitchen)..................................K-	Russell
Closing Remarks.......................Very	Rev. Father General
As the skilful angler who has got a heavy bite keeps his-fish in play, so the Orchestra kept time to the varying feelings of the multitude, allayed its impatience and reconciled -it to its fate. In due time the curtain rose, and the first scene of the first act of Plautus’ “ Captives ” was begun, Mr. -A. Hertzog taking the part of Hegio, Mr. J. P. and J. J.: Quinn the parts of Tyndarus and Philocrates, respectively; Mr. McGrath, that of Lorarius, while Mr. Devoto presented us with his idea of the irrepressible Ergasilus. -
As there were comparatively few present who had read the play, and probably still fewer who took the labor of following the plot, a resume of the whole may prove interesting. Long ago in Calydon, an ancient town of jEtolia, in Greece, there lived an old man mamed Hegio. Hegio had two sons, one of whom “Tyndarus ” (Mr. J. J. Quinn), when only four years of age, was stolen from home by a runaway slave, “ Stalagmus.” “ Stalagmus ” carried him off to Elis, a town of Achaia, a province of Greece separated from JEtolia only by the narrow Corinthian Gulf/ and there he sold him to a certain Theodoromedes, who-had a son of his own about the same age, “Philocrates ” (Mr. J. P. Quinn). Theodoromedes makes a present of little Tyndarus to his own little son, and brings them up together—Tyndarus acting as the servant, or rather the slave of Philocrates, as was the custom of those days.
A war afterwards arising between the two cities, “Philo-polemus” (R. Russell), the second son of Hegio, was taken captive and became the property of one Menaichus, a doctor in Elis. Hegio, in order to recover if possible Philopolemus, began buying captive Elians, hoping thus to obtain possession of some wealthy young Elian whom. he could exchange for his own son, Philopolemus. Philoc-, rates and Tyndarus, who by this time had become young men, went to the war, and were taken captives by the JEtoli. Hegio, hearing great accounts of the wealth of Philocrates’ father, bought both Philocrates himself and his slave, Tyndarus ; thus it happened that Tyndarus became a slave to’ his own father, neither of them knowing the other.
Philocrates and Tyndarus now concoct a scheme through, which the former may be set at liberty. They exchange garments, and names,—Philocrates calling himself Tyndarus, and acting the part of a slave towards Tyndarus; Tyndarus, on the other hand, takes the name and plays the part of Philocrates, his master. They then persuade Hegio that the best way to negotiate the restoration of his. son, Philopolemus, is to send one of them over to Elis. _ Accordingly Hegio sends, as he thinks, Tyndarus, but really Philocrates, home to Elis on this mission, retaining, all unconsciously, his own son Tyndarus. Soon after the departure of Philocrates, Hegio bought another Elian captive, “Aristophontes ” (Mr. L. Evers) and through him discovered the deception practiced on him by Tyndarus and Philoc--rates. Hegio, highly indignant, prepares to visit condign punishment upon the devoted head of Tyndarus, when fortunately Philocrates returns from Elis, bringing with him not only the [anxiously sought son, Philopolemus, but the very slave, Stalagmus, who had stolen Tyndarus when a child. The denouement speaks for itself. Hegio was’ delighted; Tyndarus was delighted; the audience was de-, lighted; we were all delighted.
Several of the popular songs of the day were rendered with good effect in Latin by Mr. McGrath and Mr. Devoto, at in--tervals during the-play; the former gentleman, among other ditties, sounded again the praises of his “ Dulcis Julia Cal-, lige,” commonly known as “Charming Judy Callaghan”;.
494	°	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
while Mr. Devoto favored the audience with “ Musca, ne me vexes; musca, ne me vexes”; otherwise, “Shoo fly, don’t bother me,” etc.
The characters in the play were all well taken and faithfully rendered, and the young gentlemen who took part in it have just reason to feel proud of their success. Hearty applause greeted every scene, and a lively interest was shown by the audience throughout the whole play. Rev. Father Walsh must feel that the care and patience with which he conducted the preparations and rehearsals for the play are amply rewarded by its success.
At the close of the Entertainment, Very Rev. Father General arose and in a neat and elegant Latin speech confessed that he had been completely taken by surprise, but felt happy in stating that his surprise was of the most agreeable nature. He complimented the young gentlemen on their spirit in undertaking a work requiring so much patience and industry, and on the elegance and taste with which they had brought it forward; and thought he felt perfectly safe in stating'in behalf of the audience that though undoubtedly “ sold,” they would be perfectly willing to be as agreeably sold again and again.
Personal.
—Wm. Hake (Commercial), of ’76, is studying medicine at Grand Rapids, Mich.
—Among the visitors this week were Mr. and Mrs. Hake and son of Grand Rapids, Mich.; Mrs. and Miss Rietz, and Mrs. Col. Kinzie, Chicago. Ill.
—Mr. and Mrs. Hake, of Grand Rapids, Mich., parents of Charles W. and Willie Hake, of ’75 and ’76, spent a few days at Notre Dame this week.
—C. Hake (Commercial), of ’76, is keeping books for his father, and doing well, at Grand Rapids, Mich. He was one of the first-honor boys of ’76.
—T. J. Cochrane (Commercial), of ’73, is with G. V. Drake, cor. Madison & Sangamon StsM dealer in paperhangings, etc., one of the oldest business houses in Chicago.
—Among the old students who attended the grand banquet given by the 2d Regiment at the Palmer House, Chicago, on the evening of the 17th, were M. T. Corby, of ’65; J. H. Ward, of ’73; Harry Fitzgibbon, of ’61; and John P. Flaherty and T. J. Cochrane, of ’73.
—M. H. Keely, of ’72, delivered the oration on St. Patrick’s Day at Waseca, Wis. We learn from the papers that it was a masterly effort, one highly creditable to the young gentleman, and well worthy ot the occasion.
—Master C. E. Cavanagh, who lately attended class here but was obliged to interrupt his studies on account of his health, has, we are glad to learn, determined to visit Lourdes where so many extraordinary cures have been obtained We wish our young friend God-speed and a joyful return.
—Rev. T. Carroll, C. S. C., Director of Studies at the College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, Watertown, Wis., spent a few days at Notre Dame this week. We are glad to see that he has entirely recovered from the severe attack of sickness be had lately. He reports all well and prospering in Watertown.
—The Chicago Times art column says that Gregori, the famous artist who painted the new church at Notre Dame, has begun a portrait of his daughter. “ She is represented as seated upon a balcony, her arms resting on an exquisitely wrought tapestry crowning the railing. A landscape with cattle by this artist is attracting much attention.”
—The following will be of interest to the many friends of Prof. King here: By earnest solicitation of Mr. Robert King, of Chicago, the eminent dramatic reader, who is a life-long friend of the engraver, Mr. McRae has consented that fifty copies of the proofs of his magnificent engraving entitled “ First in Peace,” or the arrival of Washington at theBattery, New York, April 23,1789, previous to his inau
guration as first President of the United States, shall come to Chicago in advance of the issuance of the work anywhere else. Mr. King proposes to give the lovers of art an opportunity to secure copies of this great historic work.— Saturday Evening Eercdd.
—We are pained to chronicle the death of Nathan S. Wood, of ’72, which occurred at his residence in Lafayette a few weeks ago. A Lafayette paper, speaking of him, says: “ Mr. Wood was the son of Thomas Wood, deceased, and was born on the 25th of November, 1848, being at the time of his death 31 years old. He was named after Nathan Stockwell. He received his education at Notre Dame, in this State, and on the 25tb of November 1875, was married to Miss Annie V. Conkling, daughter of Hon. James C. Conkling, of Springfield, Illinois, who now survives him. They had no children. The deceased has lived in this city for the major part of his life. At the time of his death he was the junior member of the banking house of Andress & Wood. Of his life amongst us there is little to say. He was known to almost every one in the city, and in a quiet, unpretentious manner made scores of friends who learn of his death with the most profound and genuine sorrow. He had a kind and generous heart and was ever ready to help those in distress, even to his own detriment and loss. For months past he had felt that death was coming slowly, but none the less surely. His hold on life was strong, and his hopeful spirit did not desert him until the very last. For a few days previous to his death he suffered intensely, but about six hours before the end all pain left him. Surrounded by his dear friends and relatives, death came as gently as a peaceful sleep.” While at Notre Dame, Mr. Wood endeared himself to his teachers and fellow-students by his close application to study and gentlemanly conduct. All who remember Mr. Wood will be grieved at the sad intelligence of his early death.
Iiocal Items.
—Bulletins were made out last Wednesday.
—Some changes are being made in our office upstairs.
—The distribution of palms will take place to-morrow.
—With the week following, the holy season of Lent ends.
—Competitions next week are in the Collegiate Department.	‘	,
—There were some indications of a snow-storm on Friday last.
—The President of the Anti-Detentionists is to be impeached.
—Hand-ball has become quite a favorite amusement with the Seniors.
—Several new books have been added to the Lemonnier Circulating Library. .
—The ceremonies during the coming week will be solemn and impressive.	x
/ —The Boat Club intends to purchase a new four-oared boat sometime this month.
: —Next Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday evenings the Tenebra will be sung by four voices.
—The Classical students gave the “ Captive ” of Plautus, in the original, on Tuesday evening last.
I —The members of both Archconfraternities will make
'! their Easter Communion on Easter Sunday.
—“ Shoo-Fly,” which was sung in Latin at the last Entertainment, seemed to take well amongst the boys.
—The orations at the Entertainment, last Saturday evening, were the subject of unlimited favorable comment.
' —The Steward is busy procuring for Easter Sunday eggs enough for everybody—some three _hundred„dozens.
<■ .—The ball-alley in the Junior Department has been slightly repaired. There is room, however, for much improvement.
—The usual monthly spelling-bee took place in the 1st. Junior Reading Class on Monday last. Master R. Semmes came off victor.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	495
—April-Fools’ Day passed off very quietly at Notre Dame. All seemed to be on the look-out, and consequently very few were fooled.	*
'	—“ See the importance of knowing the Latin language
said our friend John the other evening, as he sat listening to the Entertainment.
. —We hear the Philopatrians intend to give a little play in Greek, after the modern style, at their Entertainment to take place this month.
—Our friend John says that the play the other evening was good, although there were a few passages that he did not altogether understand.
(	—The “ Charge of the Six Hundred ” was very well de-
claimed in Latin by the Classical students at their Entertainment the other evening.
—Besides the first Lamentation each evening of the Tene-bra, the alternate verses of the Miserere and the Benedictus will be sung by four voices.
—There was not a selection declaimed or an oration delivered last Saturday evening that did not reflect credit on the young gentleman giving it.
/ —On Good Friday, the Mass of the Presanctified will N/take place at 10 o’clock. In the afternoon, the Way of the Cross will take place at 3 o’clock.
—At a meeting of the Boat Club, held Sunday, March 30th, /Mr. E. Dempsey was elected Captain of the boat “ Minnehaha,” and Mr. W. McGee was elected to membership.
—The members of the Boat Club are having the boats repaired, and in a few days we may expect to see the boys on the lake preparing for the race to come off in J une.
—It seemed as though the boys were determined to give the Feast of St. Patrick a double octave this year. At least that best of Entertainments last Saturday would lead us to believe so.
—Rev. John Ford, formerly parish priest of Cape May, N. J., and one of the successors to Prince Gallitzin, at Loretto, Pa., has willed his extensive collection of books to the Lemonnier Library.
/ —To-morrow is Palm Sunday. Services will begin at 9 / o’clock. The Passion will be sung as usual. The Mass will be the Missa Parvulorum. Vespers are of the Sunday, - page 82 of the Vesperal.
’	—Next Thursday is Holy Thursday. The Missa Regia
/ will be sung. The usual procession will take place at the - / end of Mass. The Mandatum, or washing of the feet, will take place at 2 o’clock, p. m.
—Our friend John says that when these Classical students give another of Plautus’ plays he wishes they would use a little red fire, and have a broad-sword combat. He would like to see how they look in Latin.
—Our friend John likes to show off once in a while; he did so the other day, and asserted with emphasis that he was “a self-made man.” He should evidently apply for a patent for his wonderful invention.
—The students of the Minim Department who had the best Bulletins for the month of March were J. Gordon, Cairo, Ill.; J. Chaves, Belen, New Mexico; H. Snee, Chicago, Ill.; and G. 8. Courtney, Washington, D. C.
—The Junior members of the Elocution Class will give an Entertainment in the course of a few weeks. Original speeches and declamations will be given. Look out for a grand display, as Prof. Lyons has them in charge.
—The question now is not, whether is the study of the pagan classics prejudicial to morality or not, but whether it is justifiable to bore the majority of an audience with a play in a tongue with which tney are not conversant ?
• —The Entertainment given by the Class of Elocution last Saturday evening was, unless we except that given by the Pnilodemics, the best Entertainment of the year. It takes Prof. Lyons to get up an A No. 1 Entertainment.
—The best Bulletin in the Junior Department for the last month was that of Master G. A. Schnull, whose percentage was 100 for everything. The second best was that of Master A. S. Rock; the third, that of R. J. Semmes.
/ —The first kite of the season was hoisted last Wednes-v day by A. Manning of the Junior Department. It carried
about 900 yards of cord, and was seen by a crowd of. Juniors who were out walking about four miles from the College.
—On Saturday next, Holy Saturday, the blessing of the : new fire, the chanting of the prophecies, and the blessing of the baptismal font will begin at 8 o’clock. At 10 o’clock, Mass will be sung. At 5 o’clock, p. m., Matins and Lauds of Easter will be sung.
—The re-election of officers for the Sodality of the Blessed Virgin Mary took place on Sunday evening, March 31st, with the following result: President, W. Boulger; Vice-President, J. Fenton; Secretary, P. Donohoe; Treasurer, J. Ryan; Censor, H Deehan.
—The 21st regular meeting of the Association of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary was held Sunday, March 30lh. The ten-minute instruction was given as usual, the subject being an explanation of the “Ceremonies observed by the Church on Palm Sunday.”	.
—The 30th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Society took place April 4th. The debate—Resolved “That the Chief Executive of the United States Government should be elected directly by the votes of the people,” took place. A full report will be given next week.
—The Library Magazine for March was ready on the 28th —not dated in advance, as is the custom—its contents being mainly from the foreign publications of same date, thus giving what is newest in the literary world. $1.00 a year, or 10 cents a number. American Book Exchange, publishers, N. Y.
—The Senior Elocution Class had a very pleasant sociable after their Entertainment on last Saturday evening. They enjoyed it heartily, in dancing and various other ways, and return many thanks to Prof. Lyons, their beloved teacher. Music was furnished by Messrs. Quinn and Coleman.
—Never before, perhaps, were there so many students attending the Elocution Classes as this year. That they are making rapid progress in this art, all who have the good fortune ot being present at their Entertainments can readily see. We hope that they will soon again favor us with an Entertainment like the one they gave last Saturday.
—The 10th regular meeting of the St. Edward Literary Club was held on Wednesday, April 2d. Questions were answered by L. Brehmer—“What is the Magna Charta?” L. Baroux—''Who was John Sobieski?” Essays were read by W. Boulger on “ Industry,” J. Fenton on “ Trees.” Declamations were delivered by H. Deehan and James Ward.
—A meeting of the Anti-Detentionists was held a few days ago, the chief object of which was to find out how their financial affairs stood. The treasurer handed in his report, stating that there was fifty cents in the treasury. It was then immediately decided that the sum should be invested, and of course it was—the boys purchasing “ peanuts ” for it.
—We again call attention to the advertisement of the Inman Line, to be found in another column. This is undoubtedly the best ocean line now in existence. Everyone visiting Europe should patronize it. The agent at Laporte, Mr. Jacob Wile, is well known at Notre Dame as an upright, straightlorward man, with whom it is a pleasure to have any dealings.
—Mr. P. J. Dougherty delivered - before the Modern History Class,, on Tuesday, April 1st, an eloquent oration on “The History of Ireland.” Dwelling at length upon / its rise, progress in Christianity, and its early influence upon surrounding nations, being, as the speaker expressed it, “ the centre oi learning and civillization of all Europe for several centuries.”
—A fine oil portrait of the late Rev. N. H. Gillespie was hung in the room of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Associa-1^ tion last Tuesday. Father Gillespie was the first Director of the Association, which, by the way, is the second oldest literary society at Notre Dame. Father Gillespie’s name will ever be cherished by the St. Cecilians,.as indeed by everyone else who knew him.	'
—The 29th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopa---
tHE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
trian Society was held on Monday evening last, April 1st. At this meeting the following declaimed: P. Crowley, E. G. Sugg, W. McDevitt, P. Perley, H. Canoil, R. French, J. Guthrie, C. Mergentheim, C. Rietz, C. Van Mourick and J. Morgan. At the next meeting some of the parts of the coming Exhibition will be distributed.
—The members of the 3d (Jr.) Catechism Class, many of whom have been getting pretty large notes for the last few weeks, made up their minds a few days ago that they should get 1 this week. They tried, and succeeded. Thus we see how easy it is to get 1 if they would but exert themselves a little and study as they should. Quite a number of them are on the List of Excellence this week.
—Very Rev. Father Strub, of the Congregation of the'" Holy Ghost, and Superior of the mission opened at Conway, Western Arkansas, in October last for a new colony of German Catholics there, paid Notre Dame a visit the past week. Father Strub speaks in encouraging terms of the colonists at this point, where seventy-five families have located during the past six months and already possess a church and school-house. The location centres at Conway, on the little Rock and Fort Smith Railway.
—A reorganization of the Active Baseball Club took place March 28th. The following are the officers and play_ ers: Director, Bro. Leander; President, E. Sugg; Vice" President, F. Grever; F. Campau; Treasurer, J. Guthrie ;* Captain, W. McDevitt; field-captain, J. Devitt. The following are the positions: W. McDevitt, c.; F. Campau, p.; F. Grever, s. s.; E. Sugg, 1st b.; J. Devitt, 2d.; J. Guthrie, 3d b.; 0. Farrelly, r. f.; T. Devitt, 1. f.; A. Reinhardt, c. £ The Club is in a flourishing condition. Their motto is “ Practice makes perfect.”
—A reorganization of the Young America Baseball Club took place March 28th. The following are the officers and players: Young Americas (now the Blue Stockings)—Presidents, J. Scanlan, Vice-President, J. Kennedy; Secretary, R.Pleins; Treasurer, J. Seeger; Captain, R. French; fieldcaptain, M. Foote. Players: R. Pleins, 3d b.; R. French, c.; J. Kennedy, p.; J. Scanlan, s. s.; J. Seeger, 1st b.; P. Boose, 2d b.; A. Mergentheim, 1. f.; M. Foote, c. f.; A. Guynn, r. f. The nine is in a good condition, and will play the Actives for the championship of the Junior Department.
—Chambers’s Cydopoedia of English Literature, in the new “Acme Edition,” is meeting with such extraordinary sale that the publishers, to make it still more popular, have further reduced the prices. Purchasers ordering before April 30th will get the eight volumes complete, in paper, for $1.75; cloth, $2.50; half morocco, gilt top, for $4.00 or bound in four volumes, half morocco, gilt top, fur $3 20. Sample volumes sent post-paid for 30 cents, 45 cents, 65 cents, and 90 cents. This is not only one of the choicest works in the language, but really wonderful in its low price. Specimen pages and terms to clubs will be sent free on request by the publishers, the American Book Exchange, 55 Beekman St., N. Y.
—The following books have been placed on the shelves of the Lemonnier Circulating Library: Thirty Years at Sea, The Story of a Sailor’s Life, E. Shippen, U. S. N.; three bound volumes of the Vatican Library—Vol. I contains Fabiola, The Australian Duke, The Vision of Old Andrew the Weaver, and A Double Sacrifice; Vol. II contains The Notary’s Daughter, True to Trust, Portrait in My Uncle’s Dining Room, The Two Victories, and The Straw-Cutter’s Daughter; Vol. Ill contains Tyborne, and who went There in the Days of Queen Elizabeth, Wrecked, and Saved, Blind Agnese, and The Lamp of the Sanctuary;—Campaigns of the Army of the Potomac, Swinton; Explorations of the Nile Tributaries of Abyssinia, Sir S. W. Baker; The King’s Highway, Hewit; Concilii Balt. II Decreta; Antar and Zara and Other Poems, Aubrey de Vere; Dictionary of Phrase and Fable, Rev. Dr. Brewer; Exploration and Survey of the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, Howard Stanbury; two volumes of French’s Drama, containing Crowding the Season, His Own Enemy, Fruits of the Wine Cup, Rip Van Winkle, Pearl of Savoy, Gen. Putnam, Money, Rent Day, Peep O’Day, Oliver Twist, The Apostate, and Allatoona. The thanks of the Library Association are tendered to Prof. A. J. Stace for two volumes of The Notbe Dame Scholastic, unbound; and to Prof.
J. A.Lyons for a bound volume containing the Scholastic Annual for the years ’76, ’77, ’78, ’79.
V—There was a large attendance at Washington Hall, Notre Dame, last Saturday night, to witness the exercises by the Euglossians, or members of the Elocution Classes of Notre Dame University. These consisted of orations, essays, declamations, music, etc., and the audience were very pleasantly and profitably entertained. The following was the programme, and it is a truthful criticism to say that every member acquitted himself in the most creditable manner: Music, N. D. U. C. Band; vocal duett, “Dear Little Shamrock”—Cheery—J. B. McGrath and T. W. Simms; “Daniel O’Connell”—oration (original), P. J. Dougherty; “Causes of Crime”—essay (original), D. Donohue; declamation—“The Cumberland,” A. Zahm; selection, “Ireland”—T. F. Meagher—J. Downey; selection—“How he Saved St. Michael’s,” A B. Congar; selection—“Avoid the Fiend,” E. E. Collins; guitar (Spanish Serenade), B. F. Claggett; selection—“ Revolutionary Rising,” W. B. McGorrisk; “Henry Clay ”—oration (original), S. T. Spalding; reading—“The Gambler’s Wife,” J. B. McGrath; “Daniel Webster”—oration (original), M. W. Bannon; music, Brass Band; personation—“The Pilot,” R. P. Mayer; tragedy—“Midnight Murder,” T. Hale; selection—“Exile of Erin,” F. X. Wall; personation— “ Maniac,” R. Russell; “Dream of Eugene Aram ”—(Hood), T. W. Simms; declamation—“Fontenoy,” J. B. Brice; piano solo—“Jack Frost Gallop,” (Warren), G. H. Cochrane; recitation—“Shamus O’Brien,” P. J. Hagan; closing remarks, Very Rev.-President Corby; music—“Grand Finale,” Brass Band—South Bend Tribune.
—A meeting of the Senior Archconfraternity was held Sunday, March 30. Very Rev. Fathers Granger and Corby and Rev. Father Stoffel honored the Society with their presence. After the usual preliminary exercises, the following young gentlemen answered questions: Mr. W. Murphy, “ Forty Hours’ Devotion,” Mr. M. McCue, Lent,” Very Rev. W. Corby was invited to give the customary fifteen-minute instruction, which he did in a very pleasing and satisfactory manner. He congratulated the Society on the great progress which it has made, and said that he wished to encourage the members by every.possible manner in the good work which they had begun. He complimented Messrs. McCue and Murphy on the answers of their respective questions, and said “the knowledge we . derive from paying attention to the answers is just the precise learning we will need in after-life to refute or dispel those prejudices based on the ceremonies of the Catholic Church.” He also spoke concerning the honor and veneration due to the Blessed Virgin. “ If any man serve Me, him will My Father honor. So the.Blessed Virgin, who served her Son with such fidelity, even when He seemed abandoned by heaven and earth,—when the world persecuted Him even to death—deserves evidently to be honored and venerated by us, since the Scripture declares that God Himself honors her, as one who most faithfully served His Divine Son. He also spoke of “ Conduct in Church.” He said we should conduct ourselves in church as becomes a people who profess and believe that God is really present. After the close of Very Rev. Father Corby’s fine speech, Mr. J. Spalding and George Simms were elected members.
—Those of the citizens of South Bend who like such things—and many, no doubt, who go to hear them through curiosity—were regaled on Wednesday evening by a tirade of foul slanders of the “ Maria Monk ” kind—such as no decent tongue could utter and which no decent person could listen to without repugnance. This to a large audience and in a public hall ot the city would speak ill for the good sense and Christian feeling of the citizens of the place if we were not aware that most people went there simply through curiosity. However, there were a few who showed either that they believe their Catholic neighbors a set of stupid fools, the Catholic priests a set of corrupt libertines, and the Sisters of Charity, Sisters of Mercy, of the Good Shepherd, Holy Cross, etc., a----but no! we cannot express it, and decent eyes would be averted if we could write words expressive of what the ci decant Edith O’Gorman said in South Bend last Wednesday, as we were told by one of the curious,—imagine the lowest and most loathsome depths of corruption and depravity, and you have it,—but what we meant to say was that there were a

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	497
few who showed either a very, very low opinion of their Catholic neighbors, of Catholic clergymen and religious, or else the malice of their own corrupt hearts by applauding the slanderer. Among the applauders were some of the South Bend newspaper men, we regret to say, and from their action on the occasion we think they have imbibed corruption and venom enough. These men were not in the late war—that is evident—where the Sisters of Charity sacrificed themselves for the sick and wounded; and, perhaps, they have not heard of the numbers of priests, and brothers, and nuns who lost their lives in tending the sick in the late yellow-fever pestilence! Is this characteristic of abandoned men and women! For shame, applauders,—your ignorance is to be pitied as much as your malice is despised.
Roll of Honor.
Williams, J. Casey, W. Wilson, M. Reilly, P. Horne; Arithmetic —L. Kies, G. Castanedo, E. Sugg, A Mergentheim, R. Semmes, F. Bell, G. W. Palmer; Geography and History—H. Devitt, J. Devitt, F. Campau, M. Foote, A. Manning, C. Van Mourick, R. Semmes, W. Adams, W. Ryan, W. Wilson ; Latin—P. Latin, R. Semmes, M. McEniry, A. Caren, P. Crowley, 3. Kurz, J. Harrison, A. Zahm ; Greek—F. Bloom, R. O’Brien; Algebra—R. Anderson, M. J. McEniry, C. Walsh, A Rock; Christian Doctrine —J. Gibbons, A. Caren, F. Phillips, J. Devitt, J. Seeger, M. L. Foote, W. McDevitt, F. Gaffney, E. Sugg.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Arentz, M. W. Bannon, M. H. Bannon, J. Brice, A. J. Burger, J. B. Berteling, M. T. Burns, J. M. Byrne, J. G. Baker, J. Buchanan, Thos. Barrett, T. Conlan, Wm. Connolly, B. J. Claggett, Geo. Cochrane, E. Calkins, G. P. Cassidy, P. 3. Dougherty, D. Donohue, J. Downey, E. Devoto, L. J. Evers, J. J. English, J. Eberhart, A. J. Hertzog, M. J. Hogan, J. Herrmann, J. Harrison, P. Horn, W. Kreig, P. B. Larkin, A. A. Lent, W. J. Murphy, C. Mueller, E. J. Maley, M. J. McCue, J. B. McGrath, W. B. McGorrisk, M. McEniry, 3. 3. McErlain, W. McGee, R. C. O’Brien. L. N. Proctor, G. Palmer, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, R. Ru'sell, W. Ryan, M. Reilly, M. Roughan, S. T. Spalding, J. Spalding, 3. 3. Shugrue, T. W. Simms, J. Simms, G. E. Sugg, A. Scheiber, E. Schifferle, P. Shea, J. Smith, R. Stewart, S. Terry, T. S. Summers, P. Vogel, F. Williams, F. X. Wall, J- Kotz.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
F. Becker, C. J. Brinkman, J. G. Brady, J. C. Casey, B. "A. Casey, P. C. Crowley, H. E. Canoll, A. A. Caren,W. D. Cannon, E. P. Cleary, J. V. Cable. G. H. Donnelly, H. F. Devitt, R. L. French, G. C. Foster, F. H. Grever, F. Glade, J. Haney, J. B. Inderrieden, Jno. Kurz, G. C. Knight, J. L. Morgan, W. A. Lentner, W. J. McCarthy, A. S. Manning, J. N. Osher, J. A. O’Donnell, G. A. Orr, R. E. O’Connor, E. B. Piekenhrock, F. T. Pleins, F. B. Phillips, C. F. Perry, J. W. Guthrie, Willie Rietz, C. F. Rietz, A. S. Rock. W. F. Reinhardt. J. A. Seeger, F. C. Scheid, J. K. Schoby, R. J. Semmes, C. P. Van Mourick, M. L. Foote, J. Kennedy, W. Van Bmkirk, Max Wolf, E. S. Walter, G. A. Schnull, A. F. Zahm.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A. M. Coghlin, G. J. Rhodius, P. F. Brady, N. P.Nelson, C. H McGrath, C. Crowe, C. L. Garrick, W. S. Coghlin, J. M. Courtney, J. S. Couitney, A. Hierb, J. J. Gordon, H. Snee, C. M. Long. J. McGrath, H. W. Bachmann, J. A. Crowe, C. J. Welty. J. S. Inderrieden, W.F. Rea, P.S. Fitzgerald, A. Chirhart, H. Kitz,E. A. Howard, T. McGrath, E. S. Chirhart, I. C. Williams, J. H. Garrity, J. Chaves, W. V. O’Malley, F. I. Garrity, F. B. Farrelly, L. 3. Young, C. Young, F. K. Parsons.
Class Honors.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
J. Kurz, A. B. Mergentheim, A. Zahm, J. Scanlan,. R. French, E. Piekenbrock, J. Boose, H. Niles, J. Kennedy, C. Rietz, J. Gibbons, G. Schnull, H. Canoil, A. Caren, J. Devitt, W. Lentner, C. Van Mourick, W. McDevitt, J. Schoby, M. Foote, R. O’Connor, R. Semmes, T. Devitt, W. Connolly, R. O’Brien, M. T. Burns, R. Anderson, B. J. Claggett. J. Baker, S. Perley, C. Walsh, M. J. McEniry, P. Shea, M. H. Bannon, J. Harrison, J. Downey, J. Spalding.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
N. P. Nelson, W. S. Coghlin, A. M Coghlin, G. J. Rhodius, H. C Snee, C. M. Crowe, C. H. McGrath, J. J. Gordon, C. M. Long, H. W. Bachmann, J. M. Courtney, J. S. Courtney, P. F. Brady, A Chirhart, C. L. Garrick, G. Woodson, G. Tourtillotte, F. K. Parsons. J. S. Inderrieden, C. J. Welty, H. A. Kitz, T. McGrath, I. C. Williams, P. Campau, E. A. Howard, J. Chaves, A. F. Schmiiekle, L. J. Young. A. Van'Mourick, A. Rheinboldt, A. J. Campau, J. H. Garrity, F. I. Garrity.
List of Excellence.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—R. Semmes, A. Manning, J. Kennedy, J. Devitt; Grammar—J. Kennedy, M. Foote, T. Devitt, R. O’Connor, L. Kies, J. Scanlan, J. Boose, C. Van Mourick, A. B. > Mergentheim, C. Rietz, W. Rietz, P. Perley, C Brinkman, R. T’
—Visitors during the week: Mrs. Holt, Muskegon, Mich.’; Mrs. and Miss Grever, Cincinnati, Ohio; Mrs. Torrent, Muskegon, Mich.; Mrs. Esmer, Chicago; Miss Martin, Union City; Mrs. Fisk, Chicago; Sirs, and Miss Pearson, Cassopolis, Mich.; Mrs. Fox, Caicago; Mrs. M. Zimmerman, Rochester, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. Hake and son, Grand Rapids, Mich.
—The morning of the Annunciation broke as a smile on nature’s face; the birds singing gaily round Loreto appeared tc call on all to bless the Name of the Lord. Very Rev. Father General said the first Mass in Loreto, Rev. Father Saulnier the second, Rev. Father Vagnier the third, and Rev. Father Hudson the fourth. Rev. Father Shortis, also, said an early Mass in the Convent Chapel, thus giving an opportunity for all to receive Holy Communion.
—On the eve of the Festival of the Annunciation, Rev. Father Shortis gave an instruction relative to the great Mystery of the Incarnation. This being also the special day of devotion at the Holy House of Nazareth, now resting at Loreto, in Italy, he took occasion to say that the same indulgences had been granted by our late Holy Father, Pope Pius IX, to our own facsimile Chapel of Loreto, and he hoped all would avail themselves of this extraordinary favor.
—The Saturday Eexening Herald, of Chicago, in a somewhat lenghty account of a musical entertainment given by the Union Catholic Club, says: Miss Ella O’Connor opened the programme with a pretty song, “The Bird on the Wing,” which was finely given, and closed’the entertainment with “The Rosebud,” which was also beautifully rendered. The same paper also says that Miss Nora McMahon is to contribute some fine solos to their next sociable.
—Handel’s Oratorio, “ Israel in Egypt,” was the subject taken for the Lecture to the St. Cecilian Society. The unity and natural development of the grand descriptive choruses on the “Plagues of Egypt ’’were fully analyzed. None but Handel could ever treat such a miraculous theme without violating the dignity of art. The study of such forms of musical composition is doing its work in the Conservatory at St. Mary’s by leading the taste and culture of the pupils in the right direction.
—Tuesday afternoon the pupils gave an Entertainment in the study-hall. Very Rev. Father General honored the occasion with his presence. The following programme was carried out in an excellent manner:
Entrance March..................Misses Usselman and Neu
Tableau—Thb Annunciation.
1 ‘ Ave Maria ”..............................  (Este)
Misses L. and A. Kirchner and C. Silverthorn.
Address from the Children of Mary..........Miss McGrath
Chorus....................................(Spofforth)
Private Vocal Class. Accompaniment by Miss Galen.
Address—Senior Department..................Miss Russell
Address—German.............................Miss Geiser
Song..........................................(Torry)
Miss Silverthorn. Accompaniment—Miss Geiser.
Address—French.............................Miss Keenan
Impromptu .................................  (Chopin)
Miss Kirchner.
The Juniors’ Entertainment.
Commencing with Valedictory by A Ewing and A McGrath. Instrumental Duett...............Misses Gordon and Buck
498
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Prologue
Lady Elmira (A Spanish Lady)
THE SIEGE OF VALENCIA. An Original Drama.
Dramatis Personae:
Miss Fisk
Camilla............
Alphonso........... Carlo.............. Blanco (Her Sister).. Theresa (Attendant)
{•Her Children
Miss A. Cavenor ....Miss Chilton ;
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
Graduating Class—Misses Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Elizabeth Kirchner. Minerva Spier.
1st Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
2d Drv.—Miss Eleanor Keenan.
--------------- 2d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck, Angela Dil-M'ss Sophia Papin | ]ork ______________________________________TT__________________________• aa._
.Miss Elise Papin
Princess Zelma....... Lila (Chief Attendant)
Attendants...........
Moorish Characters:
Miss Cortrieht ...Miss Rosing
____Miss Birch ..Miss Woodin ( Miss Wolford -< Miss Sullivan ( Miss Dallas
Act I.—Room in a Palace of Valencia. Terzettina...............................(Randegger)
. _ . Misses Gordon, Usselman and Capelie.
'	Act IL—Scene L—Moorish Camp.
Balladine
...........r... Misses Keenan and Dillon Scene IL—Spanish Camp.
Holl of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Hope Russell, Ida Fisk, Sarah Moran, Lou’sa Kelly.
1st Sr. Class—Misses Ellen McGrath, Clara Silverthorn, Eleanor Keenan. Teresa Killelea, Rebecca Neteler, Anna Maloney. Anna Woodin, Mary Birch, Sarah Hambleton, Zod Papin, Aurelia Mulhall.
2d Sr. Class—Misses Adelaide Kirehner, Catharine Hackett, Ellen Galen, Annie Cavenor, Harriet Buck, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward. Philomena Wolford, lorartba Semmes, Mary Brown, Marv Plattenburg, Catharine Danaher, Alice Farrell, Grace Glasser. Mary Sullivan.
3d Sr. Class—Misses Henrietta Rosing, Angela Dillon, Alicia Donelan, Anna Cortright, Catharine Hoadley, Adelaide Geiser, Lucie Chi’ton, Agnes Joyce, Martha Wegener, Pauline Hills, Anna McGrath, Catharine Claffey. Marv Usselmann, Ellena Thomas, Louisa Neu, Annie Jones, Josephine Mitchell.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses Mary Fitzgerald, Mary Mullen. M«rie Dallas. Marv Feehan, Ina Capelle, Kathleen Wells, Ollie Williams. Linda Fox, Julia Bames, Minna Loeber, Anna Hermann, Della McKerlie, Alary English, Caroline Gall.
2d Prep. Class—Misses Teresa Zahm, Laura French, Julia Butts. Joanna Baroux, Annie Orr. Lilly Lancaster, Mary Campbell, Mary Hake, Charlotte Van Namee.
2d Drv.—Misses Bridget. Kelly, Ellen Kinzie, Sarah Purdy.
Junior Prep.—Misses Mary Lyons. Marie McN. Garrity, An-geta Watson, Sabina Semmes, Matilda Kildaire, Celestine Lemontey, Julia Wells.
1st Jr.—Misses Mary Paquette. EHse Lavoie, Mary Chirhart, Ada C'arke. Jessie Pampel, Julia Cleary, Minnie-Fisk, Elizabeth Consadine, E>ise Panin.
2d Jr.—Misses Jane McGrath, Blanche de Chantal Garrity, Martha Zimmerman, Isab°lla Scott.
3d Jr.—Miss Manuelita Chaves.
Latin—Misses lorantha Semmes, Ina Capelle.	.
PRENCH COMPOSITION.	'
1st Class—Misses Eleanor Keenan, Clara Silverthorn, Ellen McGrath. Annie McGrath.
2d Drv.—Mi=ses Henrietta Rosing, Aurelia Mulhall, Ellen Galen. Marie Dallas, Elise Lavoie, Celestine Lemontey.
2d Class—Misses Zod Papin, Elizabeth Kirchner, lorantha Semmes, Grace Glasser, Ella Mulligan.
3d Class—M!sses Angela Ewing, 100; Emma Shaw, Lucie Chilton, Mary Birch, Mary Casey, Mary Mulligan, Martha Wagoner.
2d Drv.—Misses Annie Cavenor, Annie Cortright, Annie Ma lonev. Louisa Neu, 100; Marv Brown, Mary Campbell, Julia Butts. Laura French, Linda Fox.
4th Class—Misses Philomena Wolford, Annie Ryan, Oll'e Williams, Mary Feehan, Johanna Baroux, Katie Wells, Annie .Jones.	‘
2d Drv.—Misses Sabina Semmes, Julia Cleary, Isabella Hackett, Josephine Mitchell.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Adelaide Geiser, Rebecca Neteler, Annie Hermann, Caroline Gall, Mary Usselman.	.
2d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Elizabeth Walsh, Martha Pampel, E'izabeth Schwass.
3d Class—Misses Louisa Kelly, Ina Capelle, Minna Loeber, Alice Farrell, Catharine Hackett, Catharine Claffey, Charlotte Van Namee.
4th Class—Misses Martha Pampel, Alice Donelan, Mary Fitzgerald, Catharine Ward. Agnes Jovce. Catharine Hoadley, An-pie Woodin, Mabel Hamilton, Maud Cas°y, Julia Butts, Mary Chirhart, Martha Zimmerman, Matilda Kildaire, Alice Esmer.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Usselman, Mary Sullivan, Henrietta Rosine. Teresa Killelea, Louisa Neu.
3d Class—Misses Annie McGrath, Mary Brown, Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Campbell, Emma Lange, Alice Farrell, Catharine Hoadley. Aurelia Mulhall.
2d Drv.—Misses Mary McGrath, Elizabeth Walsh, Caroline Gall, Catharine Hackett, Anna Malonev.
4th Class—Misses Annie Cortrieht, Mary Mullen, Marie Dallas, Mary English. Emma Shaw, Kathleen Wells.
2d Drv.—Misses Annie Hermann. Ann Leydon. Zoe Papin, Angela Ewine, lorantha Semmes, Ellen Hackett.	'
" 5th Class—Misses Martha Pampel, Annie Woodin, Mabel Hamilton, Annie Cavenor, Ida Torrent. Josephine Mitchell, Della McKerlie, Marie Plattenburg, Charlotte Van Namee, Laura French.
2d Drv.—Misses Mary Garrity, Annie Jones, Sarah Purdy, Catharine Martin, Mary Birch, Linda Fox, Mary Mulligan, Minna Loeber. Elizabeth Schwass, Agnes Joyce, Mary Hake, Eleanor Thomas, Paulina Hills, Catharine Danaher, Matilda Ki’daire.
6th Class—Misses Mary Casey, Bridget. Kelly, Julia Wells, Maud Casey, Rebecca Neteler. Annie Orr, Ellen Cavanagh, Elise Dallas, Mary Feehan, Ellen Mulligan.
2d Drv.—Misses Agnes McKinnis. Catharine Lloyd, Johanna Baroux, Alicia Donelan, Philomena Wolford, Lucie Chilton, Mary McFadden, Annie Rvan, Grace Glasser, Mary Fitzgerald, Ellen Kinsey, Catharine Ward, Julia Barnes, Lilly Lancaster.
7th Class—Misses Elise Papin, Julia Cleary, Mary Chirhart, Isabella Hackett.
8th Class—Misses Blanche Garrity. Martha Zimmerman, Ada Clarke, Manuelita Chaves, Angela Watson.
2d Drv.—Misses Ellen Lloyd. Emma Fisk, Julia Butts.
9th Class—Misses Celestine Lemontey, Annie Loescher. Harp—2d Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
3d Class—Misses Angela Dillon. lorantha Semmes, Mary Brown, Marv Campbell, Alice Farrell, Annie McGrath.
Organ—Miss A. Hermann.
Harmony—1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Elizabeth Kirchner, Clara Bilverthorn, Minerva Spier.
2d Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
3d Class—Misses Adella Gordon. Harriet Buck.
Elementary Thorough Bass Class—Misses Emma Lange, Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Brown, Angela Dillon. Eleanor Keenan, Teresa Killelea, Marv Sullivan, Alice Farrell. Mary McGrath, Mary U’selmann, Annie McGrath, Elizabeth Walsh, Louisa Neu, Marv Campbell.
General Theoretical Classes—Best notes for the week— Misses Caroline Gall, Angela Ewing, Catharine Hackett, Annie Maloney, Mary Mullen, Kathleen Wells. Marie Dallas, Annie Hermann. Catharine Danaher. Martha Pampel, Agnes Joyce, Rebecca Neteler, Mabel Hamilton, Eleanor Thomas, Elizabeth Schwas=, Marv Casey, Marv Campbell. Laura French. Emma Shaw, Mary Plattenburg, Catharine Claffey, Pauline Hills, Ida Torrent, Josephine Mitchell, Grace Glasser, Mary Fi’zgerald, Alicia Donelan, Lucie Chilton, Linda Fox Ph’lomena Wolford, Annie Orr, Mary Garrity, Maud Casey, Alice Esmer, Mary Chirhart, Martha Zimmerman Elise Papin, Jul'a Cleary, Julia Butts, Ada Clarke, Catharine Ward, Ellen Lloyd, Manuelita Chaves, Blanche Garrity, Minnie Fisk.
Technical Exercises—Mis=es Adella Geiser. Clara Silver-thorn, Minerva Spier. Elizabeth Ki-chner, Ellen Galen, Eleanor Keenan. Harriet Buck. Adella Gordon, Angela Dillon, Mary Usselmann, Mary Sullivan, Henrietta Rosing, Louisa Neu, Adelaide Kirchner, Fmma Lange, Catharine Hoadley, Elizabeth Walsh, Aurelia Mulhall. Caroline. Gall. Catharine Hackett, Annie Cortright, Marie Dalia’, Mary English, Kathleen Wells, Emma Shaw, Anna Hermann, Angela Ewing, Martha Pampel, Mabel Hamilton, Ida Torrent. ’
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class—Miss Elizabeth Kirchner.
2d Div.—Miss Adelaide Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Mary Usselman, Adella Gordon.
3d Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Catharine Hackett, Alice Farrell. Aurelia Mulhall. .
4th Class—Misses Emma Shaw, Mary McGrath, Zod Papin, Anna McGrath.
5th Class—Misses Hattie Buck, Sarah Purdy, Mary English, Mary Mulligan, Ina Capelle, Mary Plattenburg, Laura French, Mary Hake, Martha Wagoner.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED TN THE
3p Class—Misses Catharine Campbell, Mary Sullivan, Angela Ewing, Elizabeth Schwass, Mary English, Julia Butts, Sarah

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	499
Purdy, lorantha Semmes, Sophie Papin, Maud Casey, Minnie Loeber, Ellen Mulligan.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
1st Class—Misses Rebecca Neteler, Sarah Moran.
2d Class—Misses Hope Russell, Marie Plattenburg, Teresa Killelea, Angela Dillon, Marie Dallas, Anna Cortright, Mary Campbell, Ellena Thomas, Laura French.
OIL-PAINTING.
1st Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Emma Lange.
3d Class—Misses Agnes Joyce, Sarah Hambleton, Harriet Buck.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Josephine Mitchell, Caroline Gall, Teresa Zahm, Minnie Loeber, Martha Pamnel, Ella Cavanagh, Elizabeth Walsh, Catharine Hackett, Martha Wagoner, Ollie Williams, Catharine Danaher, Mary Campbell, Ina Capelie, Annie Jones, Mary Hake, Bridget Kelly, Mary English, Mabel Hamilton, Ida Torrent, Mary Fitzgerald, Ellen Kinzie.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Hope Russell, Sarah Moran, Clara Silverthorn, Rebecca Neteler, Teresa Killelea, Zod Papin, Aurelia Mulhall, Ellen Galen, Catharine Hackett, Alice Farrell, Mary Brown, Mary Plattenburg, Catharine Danaher, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Grace Glasser, Annie Cav-enor, Harriet Buck, lorantha Semmes, Lucie Chilton, Henrietta Rosing, Angela Dillon, Alicia Donelan, Anna Cortright, Agnes Joyce, Josephine Mitchell, Martha Wagoner, Pauline Hills, Catharine Hoadley, Mary Mullen, Minnie Loeber, Kathleen Wells, Mary Fitzgerald, Annie Hermann, Ollie Williams, Teresa Zahm, Mary Campbell, Mary Hake, Mabel D. Hamilton, Ida Torrent, Ellen Kinzie, Bridget Kelly, par excellence. Misses Ida Fisk, Louisa Kelly, Ellen McGrath, Eleanor Keenan, Anna Woodin, Annie Maloney^ Mary Birch, Sarah Hambleton, Mary Casey, Emma Lange, Adella Gordon, Adelaide Kirchner, Elizabeth Walsh. Elizabeth Schwass, Emma Shaw, Catharine Lloyd, Elizabeth Kirchner, Mary Usselman, Adelaide Geiser, Annie Jones, Ellen Thomas, Louisa Neu, Julia Barnes, Ina Capelle, Mary English, Caroline Gall, Della McKerlie, Martha Pampel, Sarah Purdy, Ella Cavanagh.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Annie McGrath, Linda Fox, Agnes McKinnis, Johanna Baroux, Charlotte Van Namee, Ellen Hackett Lilly Lancaster, Annie Leyden, Mary Cox, Maud Casey, Mary Garrity, Mary Paquette, Mary Chirhart, Sabina Semme% Angela Watson, Celestine Lemontey, Elise Lavoie, Julia Cleary, Elizabeth Consadine, Manuelita Chaves, Isabella Scott, par excellence. Misses Angela Ewing, Mary Mulligan, Ellen Mulligan, Catharine Claffey, Marie Dallas, Mary Feehan, Laura French*, Margaret Cleghorn, Annie Orr, Catharine Campbell, Ju’ia Butts, Mary Lyons, Elise Dallas, Ellen Lloyd. Sophie Papin, Matilda Kildaire, Ada Clarke, Jessie Pampel, Minnie Fisk, Elise Papin, Blanche de Chantal Garrity, Martha Zimmerman, Jane McGrath, Isabella Hackett.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Noy. 11, 1877.
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t.Xight Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles 	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		7 00 a.m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 »	-9 00 pm h 15 “ 12 35 a m 2 17 “ 4 45 “ 8 00 “
			♦JacKson Express.		
	•Mail	♦Day Express.		+Pacific Express.	^Evening Express.
			5 40 a.m 8 40 “ 4 45 p.m 4 30 a.m 6 30 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “		
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 : “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 55	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		9 50 p.m 12 45 a.n 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6 20 p m 9 40 “ 12 35 a m 2 38 4 15 “ 6 45 “
NlieS and. Soxitlx Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p m. “ N. Dame— 8 52	6 38 “
Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “
♦GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m
“ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “
Ar. So. Bend—745 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth,	j H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, HI. Gen’I Manager, Detroit, Mich.
■-	G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
NOV. 10, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, • Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
		No.l, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Man.
Pittsburgh,..		11.45 P.M.	900 A.M.	L50pm.	6.00 am.
Rochester.			12.53 a.m.	10.12 “	2.55 “	745 “
Alliance,			310 “	1250 p.m.	535 “	1L0O “
Orrville,			450 “	256*“	7.13 “	12.55 p.m.
Mansfield			7.00 “	4.40 “	9.20 “	3.11 “
Crestline,....	.. Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline,....	... .Leave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
Forest.			9.25 “	7.35 “	11.25 “	
Lima......					10.40 “	9.00 “	1225 am.	
Ft. Wayne,			1.20 pm.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Plvmouth			350 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,/..		7.00 “	6.00 “	1 7.58 “		
GOING EAST.
		No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, A tian. Ex.	No 8, .Mail.
Chicago,			9.10 pm.	8.30 a.m.	5.15 p.m.	
Plvmonth			2.46 a.m.	11.48 “	8.55 “	
FL Wayne,			6 55 11	2.25 pm.	11.30 “	
Lima.					8.55 “	4.20 “	1.30 A.M.	
Forest,			10.10 “	5.27 “	233 “	
Crestline,....	...Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.05 “		
Crestline				Leans	12.05 pm.	7.15 p.m.	4.15 AM.	605 a
Mansfield,			12.35 “	7.45 “	4.55 “	6.55 “
Orrville,				2.26 “	9.38 “	7.00 “	9.15 “
Alliance,			4.00 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	11 on «
Rochester. 					6.22 “	1.20 A.M.	11.06 “	2.00 pm.
Pittsburgh,..		7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 pm	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
* THIS IS THE ONLY EINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. MYEHS, G. P & T. A.
INMAN LINE.
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS.
NEW YOBE to QUEENSTOWN and LIVEBPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491
CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607
CITY OF CHESTER, 4566 CITYOF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITYOF BRUSSELS, 3775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS, 3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN, 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G. DALE, Agent. ’	15 Broadway, New York.
Or to	M*ILE,
Foreign Exchange and Passage Agent, oct5-tf	Porte, Indiana.
500
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
W. S. Golsen.	D. R. Mullins.
’ GOLSEN & MULLINS,
Dealers in Chapin & Gore’s
Native and imported wines.
FINEST IMPORTED CIGARS.
IV. E. Cor. LaSalle «jfc Monroe Sts.
Henry Styles, Manager.	Cliicago.
f22-ly
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
WELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving* Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
ID ID <D
MAN
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUNTRY, WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP, THAT THE
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST AND THE WEST!
I
0 00
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs and Omaha, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo, Moline, Rock Island, Davenport, West Liberty, Iowa City, Marengo, Brooklyn, Grinnell, and Des Moines, (the capitol of Iowa) with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fair-field, Eldon, Belknap, Centreville, Princeton, Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth and Atchison; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Bentonsport, Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville, Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe, and Des Moines; Des Moines, to Indianola and Winterset; Atlantic to Audubon -and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad which owns, controls and operates a through line between Chicago and Kansas.
This Company own and control their Sleeping Cars, which are inferior to none, and give you a double berth; between Chicago and Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, or Atchison for Two Dollars and FiftyCents; and a section for Five Dollars, while all other lines charge between the same points. Three Dollars for a double berth, and Six Dollars for a section.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Illinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining and Restaurant Cars that accompany all through Express Trains. Yougetan entiremeal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents; or you can order what you like, and pay for what you get.
Appreciating the fact that a maj ority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes, (and the enormous passenger business of this line warranting it,) we are pleased to announce that this Company runs its PALACE SLEEPING CARS for Sleeping purposes, and its PAT, ACE DINING CARS for Eating purposes. One other great feature of
our Palace Cars is a SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your “Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by(this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison, connections being made in Uniondepots.	____
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS :
At Chicago, with all diverging lines'for the East and South.
At Englewood, with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern andPittsburg, Ft.Wayne & Chicago R. Rds.
At Washington Heights, with Pittsburg, Cincinnati & St. Louis R. R.
At LA Salle, with Illinois Central R. R.
At Peoria, with P., P. & J.; P-, L. & D.; I. B. & W.;
Ill. Midland: and T., P. & W. Railroads.
At Roch Island, with Western Union R. R. and Rock Island & Peoria Railroads.
At Davenport, with the Davenport & North-Western R. R.
At WEST Liberty, with the Burlington, Cedar Rapids & Northern R. R.
At Grinnell, with Central R. R. of Iowa..
At Des Moines, with D. M. & Ft. Dodge R. R.
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R. R.
At OMAHA, with B. & Mo. R. R. R. (in Neb.)
At Columbus Junction, with Burlington, Cedar Rapids & Northern R. R.
At Ottumwa, with Central R. R. of Iowa; St. Louis, Kan. City & Northern and C., B. & Q. R. Rds.
At Keokuk, with Toledo, Peoria and Warsaw; Wabash, and St. Louis, Keokuk & N.-W.R. Rds.
At BEVERLY, with Kan. City, St. J. & C. B. R. R.
At Atchison, with Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe; Atchison & Neb. and Cen. Br. Union PacificR. Rds.
At Leavenworth, with K. P. and K. Cen. R. Rds.
FAX.ACE CARS are ran through to FEORIA, DES MOINES. COUNCIL, BLUFFS, ATCHISON and LEAVENWORTH:
Tickets via this Line, known as the “Great Bock Island Route,”- are sold byall Ticket Agents In the United States and Canada.
- For information not obtainable at your homo ticket office, address, XEIMBALL,	3E. ST. JOHN.
-;s Gen’l Superintendent. •	- Gen’lTkt.audPass’gr Agt.,
______	..	ChicagOtlU.