Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vlctiLrns ; vlve quasi eras morlturus.
Volume XII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 10, 1879.	Number 35.
The Old College.
BY T. A. DAILY (CLASS OF ’74).
Read by Judge Turner at the Meeting of Sympathy HELD BY THE CITIZENS OF SOUTH BEND, SATURDAY, APRIL 26th.
A cloudless sky—a sultry day;
A wealth of sunshine in the air,
Young spring was blooming soft and fair, And o’er the earth held sovereign sway.
A morning bathed in dewy tears Upon the gently swelling hills, Where nature once again fulfils
The promise of consistent years.
A cry—a brief electric flash—
A burst of awful fear leaped out;
A moment of suspense and doubt—
Ere thousands from the city dash
And to the College force their way;
For “Fire! fire !” was the cry, Fair Notre Dame was doomed to lie Prone in the dust, for naught can stay
The fiendish progress of the flames
That roll above her stately dome—
O’er sacred relic—ancient tome— The-treasured lore of deathless names.
0 God! it was a thrilling sight,
Where rolled the fierce flames to the sky, And great, brave men stood helpless by;
Crushed ’neath the monster’s withering blight.
The sculptured Virgin mutely blessed
The lurid tongues that scorched her brow, As holy martyrs erst did bow
Beneath the torture’s final test.
The crash of walls, the hissing stream; Commingled flames and blistering heat, Wrought out a picture all replete
With mad destruction’s lurid gleam.
Can nothing quell this demon’s power ?
Can naught appease his fiery wrath !
Can strength of man impede his path, Or stay the flames that madly lower ?
No arm was potent there to save;
From tower and dome the flames rolled uown, While noble firemen from the town
' Fought bravely as becomes the brave.
Sorin, thy'lifework lies a glow
Of crumbled clay and shapeless dross;
Thy Brethren of the Holy Cross
Behold their labor worthless grow.
Doomed, doomed, O beauteous Notre Dame I Thy massive walls are crushed and low; Thy stricken children here bestow
Their tears to consecrate thy fame.
The stranger turns heartsick to see
That holocaust’s destructive might;
Thy friends are gathered here to-night
In sympathy and love for thee.
Lo! crushed to thy foundation-stone :
From out those ruins comes a voice That bids thee rise, in grief rejoice,— In woe thou weepeth not alone.
We feel thy loss—we saw thy birth;
Thy classic halls once more shall rise; Thy dome again shall pierce the skies, The grandest monument of earth.
0, hospitable Notre Dame!
Thy walls that never turned away Unfed the poor—appeal to-day To Christian hearts of every name.
Gold cannot buy all thou hast lost!
It can do much—we.promise more;
We pledge thee freely of our store
And sympathy of priceless cost
Thy children, who are filling now In every land the ranks of trade, Will reach to thee their proffered aid
And laurels weave ’round thy crushed brow.
Thy deeds of love have made thee great;
Have won thee friends in distant lands Who’ll reach, to thy distress, full hands And bounteous gifts from every State.
Arise ! O pee’rless Notre Dame!
Forth from the gloom of thy despond, To meet the coming years beyond, And dedicate anew thy aim.
Thy fame is ours—our strength we give, Sorin, thy Patriarch, shall not Go to his grave and be forgot;
His name through ages yet shall live.
[From the “ Catholic Review ” of May the 3d.J
A Day at Notre Dame (Before the Fire).
“ Under God, it is all the work of one man, with no help but a sublime and unbounded confidence in the Mother of God, who in every trial and under every affliction has sustained him. Sometimes human aid would seem promised to him; he would receive the assistance, or the hope of the assistance, of some brilliant and strong man, and almost at once death or some other cause would withdraw this sup
538
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
port and leave him nothing but his main stay, faith in our Blessed Mother. Her work in the success of this institution is of marvellous record. Forty years ago, when Father-General and a companion succeeded the saintly old missionary who on these camping grounds of the Red Men had evangelized the poor Indians, they were so poor as to have but one hat between them, so that when one was seen abroad it was known that the other must be at home.”
The speaker was the editor of the Ave Makia, who on last Monday afternoon was one of three that kindly undertook to make the visit of a passing traveller from New York full of pleasant memories of Notre Dame. We were standing on the roof of the University building, under the statue of our Lady. We had reached it by noble corridors and and spacious staircases, through magnificent halls, which contained in books, in manuscripts, in pictures, in scientific and artistic collections treasures which no money could replace. We were looking out over the beautiful plains of Indiana, that American Lombardy which recalls the lines of Shelley:
Beneath is spread, like a green sea, The waveless plain of Lombardy, -	Bounded by the vaporous air,
Islanded by cities fair.
Far as the eye could reach, the work of Christian civilization could be traced: flourishing cities and villages, the iron roads which knit together East and West, factories and farms, everything that denoted a prosperous and happy people; but in all, nothing more striking, nothing more beautiful and nothing more suggestive than this Catholic city of Notre Dame, for it is not less than a city, from whose centre we surveyed this marvellous growth, the source of whose prosperity and strength Father Hudson summed up in the sentences we have quoted.
Notre Dame, St. Joseph’s Co., Indiana, brought to our own time and to our very doors a chapter of the history of the Church in its glorious middle age. If any reader had never heard it before, the lecture of Archbishop Vaughan which we published a week or two since must have familiarized all the readers of The Catholic Review with the growth of great cities of Europe around the monastery of the Catholic monk and the cathedral of the Catholic Bishop. Spending the first night of their foundation under the trees of a pathless and unknown forest, the Middle-Age founder often saw before his death, and his children surely saw, the mustard-seed developed, as the Gospel promised, into a mighty tree which filled all the earth. On the prairies of Indiana, this American age has seen repeated the work of mediaeval Europe, by a congregation of priests almost the most modern in the Church—whose growth, however, has been such in America that we retain here their chief, the only case, we believe, where the SuperiorGeneral of a European order resides at this side of the Atlantic. From two poor French priests, such as MM. Gambetta, Grevy et Cie wish to banish from France, there has sprung an order, whose dead on the field of honor are already not few, and who besides have been able to enrich Ohio, Kentucky, Texas, Wisconsin, Canada and remoter regions with learned teachers, zealous missionaries, and practical business men, whose work in making good citizens, and devoted lovers of our western institutions Gambetta and his friends may not admire, but which Catholics and Protestants, the highest no less than the humblest in the United States, thoroughly appreciate. In this single establishment the original two, of whom one survives, h^ve been multiplied tp thirty fathers, twelve scholastics.
141 professed lay-brothers, sixty novices, and twelve postulants. In enumerating these Soldiers of the Cross we must not omit the heroic women who in the convent just a mile distant are working on parallel lines for the sisters and daughters of those for whom the Fathers and Brothers of the Holy Cross have done so much. Mother Angela counts under her rule at least 600 members, of whom 340 are professed, sixty are scholastics, 102 are novices, and sixty are postulants. In Utah they are one of the hopeful forces struggling against that product of American Protestantism known as Mormonism; from Wisconsin to the District of Columbia, and from New Brunswick to Texas their lines of battle extend. Even what we could see in an hour’s visit to their convent is worth telling.
We cannot, in the space at our command, picture for our readers even the material beauties which can be seen from this vantage point on the roof of Notre Dame. Here is the Church of Our Lady, enriched with pictures, with costly frescoes, with shrines and relics of the saints, with an altar whose privilege is greater, we are told, than that of any other altar save one in the entire world. A volume would would be required to tell the beauties of this shrine. Its chimes of bells waft music over the prairies, and forty miles its great bell, the largest in the West, is heard distinct and musical. There is the school of manual art, where the young gentlemen who are to be the legislators of young communities can learn useful blacksmithing and carpentry. There are music and science halls, homes for the aged, an infirmary, the printing office of the Ave Maria with its devoted brothers and its mild, studious editor. Then a great boiler-house, kitchens and all the other buildings called for by nearly four hundred students, and professors. Two lakes, surrounded by shady walks, afford opportunity of recreation and exercise, and divide the Novitiate and Scholasticate from the University. A week to see them and a volume to describe them would be needed to tell all the material glories of Notre Dame. What it has accomplished in the spiritual world, if told before the judgment-day, must be recounted by other hands. Enough it is to know that in the atmosphere of Notre Dame there were peace, fervor, discipline and piety, so that even the transient visitor could not fail to perceive its happiness. There was hope, too, for on this Monday morning, when Father Sorin bade farewell to his boys, who had turned out to wish him bon voyage on his thirty-sixth transAtlantic journey, undertaken to look after interests imperilled in France by those questionable “ republicans ” who are in power, he had engaged them all in a canvass to double their number next year.
Whoever leaves Notre Dame hopes to see it again. Was it any wonder that we should promise to see it again when June added to it the only glory it wanted on this day, anticipating summer in its fervor? Was it any wonder that hurrying along the noisy highways of commerce we looked back with affectionate interest to this pleasant lakeside? What then was our sorrow, barely two days later, to read in the railroad cars this appalling record of ruin, blotting out and darkening one of the brightest spots in all America.
[Here follows the associated press dispatch giving account of the fire.]
This telegram must have arrested at the steamer’s side the venerable Father-General Sorin and brought him back so unexpectedly to the scene of the disaster. His hair is whiter to-day than it was forty years ago when he undertook to build up for the first time Notre Dame, and Jus beard
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
539
is that of a patriarch; but his bright eye is as young to-day as it was then, and though he might have prayed that this great affliction should be spared him, he will take up his cross once more, “ with a sublime and unlimited confidence in our Lady,” and long before another May comes round, there will rise from the ashes buildings stronger, fairer, nobler than even those which last week passed away in a breath of flame.
[Fom the “Chicago Times”: Thursday, April 24, 1879.]
HOT HAVOC.
A Deplorable Visitation of Flame on the University of Notre Dame at South Bend.
The Main and Four Adjoining Buildings and Their Contents Destroyed.
Vast Libraries and Innumerable Scientific Treasures Consumed or Ruined.
Narrow Escape of Local Firemen from Death Under a Falling Cornice.
; The Loss Estimated at $200,000, and the Insurance at About $45,000.
-------
►I	Special Telegram,
f
j	South Bend, Ind., April 23.—Shortly before 11 o’clock
7 this forenoon, word reached this city that the University 5	of Notre Dame, two miles distant, was on fire. A glance
•	toward Notre Dame confirmed the unpleasant news. Be-
( low the clouds of black smoke, which the wind lifted and carried off to the east, stood the magnificent buildings of . Notre Dame University, the Church of the Sacred Heart, (• the Infirmary, Superior General’s house, Music Hall, Washington Hall, Minims’ Hall, Old Men’s Home and adjacent buildings in bold relief in the clear sunlight. Around
'	THE HUGE DOME
of the University building, whose windows flashed in the J sun like crystal, the brilliant destroying flames lapped out their fiery tongues and shot upward as if trying to swallow the magnificent statue of the Blessed Virgin which surmounted the dome. It was soon evident, at this distance even, that the fire-fiend was doing its destructive work all too well, and that before the assistance which our clanging fire-bells had brought and was hurrying to Notre Dame could reach there, that dome and statue would have to go. In a few minutes the flames triumphed, and the immense statue with its golden crown and superb proportions crashed down through the fire-weakened dome.
THIS STATUE
was over ten feet in height, and weighed two thousand pounds. Above the centre of the six-storied building had been erected specially for it a lofty dome, built on the model of the one at St. Peter’s in Rome. On the 31st of May, 1866, the colossal statue was blessed by Archbishop Spalding, and placed in position, there being present on this occasion thousands of people from every part of the United States and Canadas. This statue, raised amidst so much joy and exultation, doomed the building to destruc
tion* for when it fell it crushed through several floors, carrying
A STREAM OF FIRE
in its track, which rapidly spread to every point of the building and along every floor. At this time the direst confusion prevailed. The twenty-four thousand pound bell in the Church of the Sacred Heart was clanging its loudest, accompanied by the thirty or forty other smaller bells in the chime. Hatless and coatless students were dragging their trunks down the broad stone steps. Priests and Brothers had thrown aside their habits and were working with a will, carrying furniture and valuable articles from the burning building out to the lawn, depositing them among the flowers and evergreens.
BEDS AND PILLOWS
were shooting out of the upper story windows in all imaginable shapes. Kerosene lamps, tables and chairs and books and desks came flying to the ground on all sides, and were more or less destroyed. Under the cool supervision of President Corby, most of the five or six hundred beds from the dormitories were carried to the gardens in the rear of the University, and taken care of by the Sisters, who worked faithfully all day and far into the night. Mayor Tong, who is also a professor in the institution, arrived on the spot soon after the fire broke out, and, taking in the situation at a glance, turned his horse toward the city to arouse the department. Meantime people from the city began to arrive by the score, and all immediately went to work.
THE WEND
blew stoutly from the west, causing the flames to soon burst through the mansard roof on the eastern side, and it became apparent to all that the building was doomed. With a terrible crash the cornice fell at this point, barely escaping crushing a number of men who were coming down the steps with large book-cases. At 11.30 the flames had gained such headway that it was deemed unsafe to remain in the building longer, and Prof. Lyons, who with great coolness seemed to be directing affairs, ordered every one to leave.
THE MUSEUM,
with its hundreds of costly specimens, and two valuable libraries, were abandoned to the flames. Every attention was soon turned to the Infirmary and the Old Men’s Home, the next buildings east, and they were completely riddled of their contents, but none too soon, for the sparks and the terrible heat from the University leaped over to the roofs of these, and in less time than it takes to tell it they were on fire. At fifteen minutes of 12 a steamer and three hosecarts from South Bend, drawn by horses and followed by a number of firemen, passed along the west side of the University building, back to the engine-room. Just then ■
THE MANSARD ROOF FELL
to the ground with a terrible crash, barely escaping crushing men, horses, hose-carts, steamer and all beneath it The steamer was set to work at the cistern, and with combined hose the firemen were soon able to get a stream on the flames, but it was of little avail. So intense was the heat they could do nothing but endeavor to protect the surround-
* This is a mistake. The dome was nearly consumed before the statue fell, and the flames had long before cut off all access to the burning roof. Thus it was beyond the power of man to save the burning building. The statue, as the bystanders say, did not fall through at once, but remained on the roof for five or ten minutes.
540
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ing buildings. The Are Maria and Scholastic printing office was completely delivered of its contents. Everything was removed from the building but the presses. -
THE SCIENCE HALL, where were innumerable and costly instruments, was also relieved of its contents, and the beautiful groves and grounds for many rods around were filled with every conceivable article of every conceivable color and shape. They presented a grotesque appearance. Many of them were afterwards burned by not being carried far euougb away from the burning buildings. From the Old Men’s Home the fire crept across to the large Music Hall, and in a few moments it and its contents, among which were eighteen ' pianos, were in ashes. The cinders from this structure flew across to the Minims’ Hall, which, being entirely of wood, burned like tinder. Here
THE FIRE SPENT ITS FURY, because there was nothing else to work on, the wind, fortunately, favoring the other buildings and protecting them. The University building is entirely destroyed. Of its former six magnificent stories and grand proportions there remain at this writing only great stretches of blackened, ragged walls standing. All the rest is tumbled into one great pile of smoking, glowing debris, which makes one heartsick to see. The Infirmary, a handsome, three-story brick, in which Father Maher had his office, the Music Hall, the Old Men’s Home and Minims’ Hall are a mass of heated bricks and gloomy embers.
THESE BUILDINGS, with the contents not saved, cost, as estimated by President Corby, not far from $250,000. Of course there are many articles burned whose value cannot be estimated in dollars. The insurance is $45,000, divided principally, and in $3,000 to $5,000 lots, among the Hartford, North British, North German, Commercial Union, London, Liverpool and Globe, Imperial and the Springfield Fire and Marine companies. There are various theories as to the
ORIGIN OF THE FIRE.
Some believe it to have been spontaneous combustion, and others that it caught from the chimney of the boiler-room. A workman who was on the roof told The Times reporter that they were using a charcoal furnace on the roof to make some repairs, and that while absent a short time it set the roof on fire. [This report is entirely without foundation. No charcoal furnace had ever been used on the roof.—Ed. Scholastic.] .... By the time they could get means for extinguishing it the fire had got beyond control. At 9 o’clock this evening the wind has changed to the east, and there are great fears that the
CHURCH OF THE SACRED HEART
will burn. This is a magnificent structure, whose interior is rich with statuary, sculptured columns, and whose walls and ceilings are the highest realization of art in the frescoes and decorative work of Gregori, the famous Italian artist, whose life-work, until coming to Notre Dame, was. devoted to the art in Rome. No other church in this country has so magnificent an interior. The greater portion of the students saved their clothes and effects, and tonight are camped in Washington Hall and other buildings. ...
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
was founded in 1842 by Very Rev. Father Sorin, now Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, and
was the most flourishing Catholic educational institution in the United States, the usual attendance of students being from three to five hundred from all parts' of the United States, and many of them being from foreign countries. It was also the largest boarding institution in the United States. It was especially rich in its libraries, zoological, ornithological, etymological, numismatic, and other collections. Most of these were destroyed, together with a collection of skeletons recently purchased at a cost of $2,400. The faculty met when they saw that the buildings were doomed, and decided to send the students home immediately. Plans are already in perfection for
and Very Rev. President Corby says they will be ready for the September term. Father Sorin, the founder of the institution, left on Monday for France via Montreal, and is now at the latter place.
The Chicago Evening Journal had the following editorial in its issue of the 23d:	'
The conflagration at Notre Dame, Ind., yesterday afternoon, was a sad calamity. As announced in our 5 o’clock dispatches, the fire was not got under control until it had destroyed the magnificent main building, the Infirmary, the Old Men’s Home, the Music Hall, and Minims’ Hall. The direction of the wind assisted the firemen to prevent the flames from spreading to the splendid Church of the Sacred Heart, which still stands, with all its paintings and statuary, one of the most magnificent temples in the State.
Notre Dame University was founded in 1842, by the Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior-General of the Order of the Holy Cross. It was chartered by the Legislature of Indiana in 1844. The buildings stand on a charming eminence, near two beautiful lakes, in the midst of a picturesque landscape embracing a glimpse of South Bend, some two miles distant. The institution has been conducted from .the first with remarkable energy and good judgment, and has grown with rapidity. At the time of the fire there were over 300 students in attendance. The library was one of the best selected and most valuable in the country. The museum was rich in specimens illustrative of ethnology and the natural sciences, collected from all parts of the world. Nearly the whole of this precious collection, together with the library, was destroyed. Fortunately, while it was found necessary to surrender Science Hall to the rapacious flames, the costly apparatus, comprising some of the finest scientific instruments, has been saved.
Probably only the cool judgment and command of Very Rev. W. Corby, President of the University, averted great loss of life. As it is, not one of the nearly four hundred members of the institution, including faculty and students, was seriously injured....
Father Sorin, who set out for Europe on Monday last in the interest of the institution, will now probably-return from New York and defer his voyage until plans for the rebuilding, which is to be commenced immediately, are fully determined on. The total loss in buildings and furniture is estimated at some $200,000, $46,000 of which is covered by insurance. The students will be dismissed to their homes for the rest of this year, and all-the energies of the Fathers will be directed to the work of rebuilding. It is fully expected that the new buildings will be ready for occupancy in September next.	'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	541
[From the "Chicago Tribune,” April 24th.]
Conflagration at Notre Dame.
South Bend, Ind , April 23.—The University building of Notre Dame, together with the Infirmary building, the Music Hall, the Minims’ play building, and the Old Alen’s Home, were completely destroyed by fire to-day. The origin of the fire is in doubt. There is no positive knowledge on the subject. Some lay it to repairing the roof, and some say that the workmen had a small kettle of boiling pitch; that it boiled over and took fire, communieating it to the roof and dome. Others say that some tinners left a pot of burning charcoal to go for lunch, and when they returned the dome was in flames. Oue thing is certain,— that it caught in the dome, which fell in, and soon the whole upper portion was a burning mass. As soon as this was realized the saving of the valuables was commenced, and a large share was gotten out. The Museum and a large part of the University and Lemonnier Libraries were lost. Several pianos and a large number of other valuables and antiquities were burm d. The fire began a little before 11 o’clock this morning, and shortly after 1 o’clock the walls had tumbled into ruins. This building had been built in parts, and was not fully completed until 1867, when the large dome was surmounted, with impressive ceremonies, by a statue of the Blessed Virgin weighing over a ton. The building was six stories high, and contained a large reception parlor, the president’s office, and the professors’ rooms, study halls, refectories, dormitories, and one or' more small chapels in the upper stories. There were rooming in the building about 400 persons, from the President down to the youngest students. Soon after the fire got under good headway it communicated itself to the Old Men’s Home, situated just east of the University building, and soon after to the Infirmary, the Music Hall, and Minims’ Play-R >om building. In the Music Hall were stored the students’ trunks and wardrobes, which were for the most part saved. The University has a large number of other first-class buildings, and corfortable arrangements can be made for the remainder of the term, which lasts about two months yet. Washington Hall, which has been the scene of many pleasant entertainments on the part of the students of past years, will be turned into the students’ dormitory to the extent of its capacity. Many of the students are telegraphingfor money with which to return home, and a few are leaving. By dividing around in their several buildings all can be made quite comfortable. The losses will aggregate about $200,000, to offset which there are about $45,000 of insurance. The University will be at once rebuilt. Father Corby says they will have it ready for the September classes. A good start can certainly be made. The Very Rsv. Edward S >rin. General of the Order of the Holy Cross, the founder of Notre Dame, left here for Europe Monday evening.- It would make his thirtysixth trip across the ocean. He has been telegraphed to return, and is immediately expected back. The heads of he University are called to meet to-morrow to take steps for putting matters on a thorough basis at the earliest practical moment.	•
Later.—The faculty have met, and have decided to close the school, so that their full energies may be fully developed to rebuilding and getting ready for the September opening. The students will be sent home. The officers of the University have sent hundreds of dispatches to parents regarding the return of students to their homes at the earliest practicable moment. During the fire the wind was from the west, but, since evening, it has changed to the*east, and strong fears are entertained that the new church and other buildings may be in danger, and the Commissioner has been in looking for the Chief of the Fire Department to take him out to provide the necessary precautionary measures. The long unused steamer belonging to this city was sent over after the first alarm and did good service. Owning to the heroic action of the President, the Very Rev. W. Corby, and leading members of the Society, tolerably good order has been maintained and life preserved.
Letters, etc.
Episcopal Residence, Cleveland, O., April 26,1879.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C.
Dear Friend:—I was sincerely sorry to hear while in Cincinnati, Thursday, that the work of your life had been reduced to ashes, and that Notre Dame was a ruin. How soon! Yet uot forever, thank God! The same will that built it.will rebuild it, and in time with greater glory.
You will need help, even if your own resources may be considerable. I therefore offer you such places in the diocese as you are acquainted, such as Sandusky, and St. Patrick’s, Toledo, or where else the pastors may be willing to permit you to beg,—of course those collections to be made subject to local authority, and, when you are ready, with letters from me. I deeply sympathize with you in this moment of distress, but pray it will soon pass away.
With kindest and best wishes, I am ever most truly and gratefully in Christ,
»J<R. Gilmour, Bp. of Cleveland.
Rev. M. M. Hallinan, D. D., an old and much esteemed member of the faculty, writes as follows:
Lafayette, Ind., May 2d, 1879.
Very Rev. Father Corby:—During the past few days, the destruction of your noble University has been the all-absorbing subject of conversation among your old pupils in this city. We all not only sympathize in your very great loss, but feel that in ruin is laid an edifice that had strong claims to the affection of all who for any time, however short, may have resided within its sacred walls.
Accept, dear Father, tny most profound sympathy and regret. Yours, etc., etc.,
M. M. Hallinan.
Washington, April £4,1879.
Father General Sorin:
My Dear Father :—I am pained to learn by this morning’s telegrams that the Notre Dame University, College buildings, Infirmary, Music Hall and other buildings, were all dt-stroyed by fire yesterday. This is a great loss, but I trust you will not be discouraged, nor allow a complete suspension of the course of studies. Hold your classes together, and by hook or by crook—that is, by faith and good work—have an exhibition in June, as usual, and as soon as practicable erect new buildings better suited to your purposes than the old.
To enable you to do this I wish to suggest what may have occurred to yourself, to telegraph to General Sherman for the temporary use of a number of large tents. Good army tents at this season of the year would answer the purposes of dormitories, dining-rooms, class-rooms, etc. The boys would be doubtless enthusiastic for the novelty of the thing, as well as desirous to bridge over your misfortunes.
We are all anxious to know more concerning the extent of your loss and the course the faculty may pursue in their efforts to rise superior to adversity. Hoping that you are in good health, and that the shock may not disturb you, I have the honor to be
Yours very truly,	•
J. M. Toner, M. D.
Chicago, April 24,1879.
Very Rev. and Kind Father:—It was with feelings of great sorrow I read the morning papers, knowing frem experience what you suffered. I thank our dear Lord that there were no lives lost. Enclosed you will find the widow’s mite, hoping that there will a plenty pour in from all parts of the world to rebuild that good Institution. I hope I may live to see it built again. It seems to me the boys could not go to Europe without taking a last look at their old home, the College.
My kindest regards to the clergy and all the Community.	Mrs. Hogan.
Lindsay, Ont., Canada, April 24,1879.
Very Rev. W- Corby, President, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Rev. Dear Sir :—The sad intelligence of the destruction of the University of Notre Dame reached me by telegram from my son this morning. I cannot express my sorrow at such a. sad calamity befalling your noble in^ti-
542	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tution. I have not as yet any knowledge of the extent of the damage; I hope it is not very serious. I will await with much anxiety to hear from some of my friends as to the extent of the damage and the probable loss sustained.
I am prepared to contribute my mite—say, at least, one hundred dollars—to help you to rebuild. Notre Dame must not remain in ashes.
I remain, respectfully, your obedient servant, T. Keenan.
Cairo, III., April 28,1879.
Very Rev. Father Corby:
Drar Sir :—I received your welcome letter this morning. I am so thankful that my boy is to remain at Notre Dame. I hope you will rise, phoenixlike, and I feel disposed to help you do it a little.
I am, very respectfully, yours, etc.,
J. J. Gordon.
Ypsilanti, Mich., May 5,1879.
Dear Sir :—We regret very much to hear ot the great loss by fire at Notre Dame. We hope and trust that the school will soon be in as flourishing a condition as ever. The writer was absent from home at the time. The damage is far more extensive than we had supposed. Anything that we can do to assist you will cheerfully be done.
Very truly yours,
Peninsular Paper Co., per L. A. Barnes.
Hyde Park, Chicago, April 24,1879.
Dear Father Corby:—It was with the most profound sorrow I learned the painful news of Notre Dame’s destruction. Poor old Notre Dame has many children who mourn for her fall with more than filial regret, and none, I can say with sincerity, more than I do. To lift her up again from her ashy tomb, and cause her to become even greater in her resurrection than before, is a pleasing duty in which I have no doubt many of her children will take part. Among such I wish to be numbered, and will do what I can. 1 am sure that all the old students will consider it a pleasure to assist. I would respectfully suggest that a circular be sent to each, soliciting their co-operation in restoring their Alma Hater to her former greatness.
Veiy sincerely your friend,
•	D. A Tighe.
Detroit, Mich., April 25,1879.
Rev. L. J. L’Etourneau, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Ind.
Dear Sir:—We have read with regret the account of the burning of the whole of the College buildings excepting the church, and we beg to tender you our heartfelt sympathies in this your sad misfortune.
Your friends,
Clough & Warren Organ Co.
Wheeling, West Va., April 26,1879. Very Rev. Wm. Corby, C. S. C.
Dear Father:—It is with sincere regret we notice the destruction by fire of the University of Notre Dame, an institution so highly esteemed and so much honored by all. We tender you our sincere regret and sympathy, and hope she will soon again spring up out of her ruins more glorious than ever.
Yours truly,
C. Hess and Family.
Port Huron, Mich., April 24,1879.
Mother Mary of St. Angela:—Press despatches today brought the sad news of the destruction of that noble temple, the University of Notre Dame. We here, who know it so well, feel it almost as a personal loss, and cannot refrain from expressing to you, and through your courtesy to the many dear friends at St. Mary’s, our profound sympathy and regret in a loss which seems now almost irreparable. To the venerable Father Sorin, whose energies and sacrifices were attested and embodied in that splendid memorial of his life, the loss must be peculiarly afflicting. It is happy that the magnificent church, with all its wealth of beauty in statues, paintings and wonderful vestments, was spared that baptism of fire. May the twin of that massive structure never share so sad a fate, —dear, beautiful, quiet, restful St Mary’s! My nieces are
absent, or I am sure they would join me in expressing their sympathy and regrets.
With kind regards and best wishes for the ever dear friends at St. Mary’s, permit me to subscribe myself, most j respectfully,	,	Mrs. L. W. Bancroft.
Chicago, April 27,1879.
Very Rev. Father Corby:—I was very sorry to hear of the destuction of the College, and was in great anxiety for the Church; but, as I heard, it has not been damaged. Nevertheless, the loss has been very great—though, I hope, no one has been injured by the fire. I can easily imagine your sorrow, and cannot but sympathize with you. j Accept, dear Father, my family’s and my own best regards, and believe me
Yours devotedly,	L. Gregori.
.	Chicago, April 27th, 1879.
Dear Father.—I write to convey to you my sympathies in the severe loss the University has suffered by the ' burning of your buildings. I hope you will only have a temporary check to the work you are engaged in, and that arrangements can be made by which you will be able to . resume your usual work in the fall.
Believe me, with much respect, yours, etc.,
Jos. A Torrence.
St. Louis, April 23, 1879.
Rev. Sir: The telegraph announces a terrible fire rag- I ing at your college, and inadequate water supply to check -it. Accept my sincerest sympathy with you in this great trial. Everyone I meet sympathises and grieves at this dire calamity. ...	H. De Pombiray.
Office of “The Catholic Universe,” Cleveland, O., April 26, 1879.
My Dear Father Hudson :—Permit me to pen you a	•
hurried note of the utmost condolence in the disaster that has overwhelmed your loved institution. Our Lady will < bring the little Ate Maria out all right again. I don’t expect to miss its visits once this coming month of May. \
My sympathies are earnest for you, my respected friend, for the excellent Fathers, for the youth, and for my young confreres of the Scholastic. Bishop Gilmour feels very . . very much distressed indeed about it. It even seemed to -have shocked him.
I remain, in sincerest friendship and regret,
Manly Tello.
Brooklyn, L. I., April 27, 1879.
Dear Rev. Father Hudson: —I have received a marked copy of an Ohio journal, containing information j that gave me real grief. It described the almost total de- j struction of your beautiful University. I hope the account | was greatly exaggerated, as such occurrences often are.
Few things could give me greater giief or pain than to ! hear that Notre Dame University is in affliction. I am, indeed, warmly attached to your institution; and I heartily 1 sympathize with you all in the hour of trial. Above all, r I send my sympathetic regards to your venerable SuperiorGeneral, Father Sorin—that man of toil and lofty deeds.
Believe, in haste, yours most faithfully,	•
John O’Kane Murray.	i
Little Rock, Ark, April 29, 1879.	. '
Rev. Dear Sir :—God knows how much it afflicted me i to hear of the terrible disaster which befell your community! In my poverty I have not even the consolation of assisting you in rebuilding. I can do nothing else than show my sympathy in praying that God may render rich men inclined to help you out of this great embarrassment, to liberally assist your supariors in this trial. I am just packing my trunks; it is with sorrow I leave this country. Adieu, my dear Father. God bless and comfort you and your Rev. confreres.
With my sincerest regards, I am, dear Rev. Father, your humble servant aud confrere in Jesus Christ,
P. 2Egediu3 Hennemann, 0. S. B.
Washington, D. C., April 30,1879.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, Notre Dame, Ind.
Rev. Sir:—I am directed by the Carroll Institute to ex- • press to you the sympathy which we, in common with the Catholics of the whole country, feel in the great loss you
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
543
experienced by the burning of the University of which ;	you have charge, on the 23d inst.
f	The pecuniary loss is very great, but compared to that
|	from an educational point of view, it, to my mind, falls into
f	the background and is lost sight of. When so many colleges
t	are teaching only that which is secular, the loss of one
j	among the few whose object is to teach not only of the life
here, but also of that hereafter, is greatly to be deplored.
:	Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
H. E. Woodward, Secretary.
St. Louis, April 28, 1879.
Brother Celestine, C. 8. C.My Dear Friend:—If ever I was surprised it was on reading the account of the burning of dear old Notre Dame, and could not believe r	my eyes until I read and re-read it. Mother nearly cried
when told of the calamity, as she thought of all the valu-l	able curiosities and relics that can never be replaced by in-
•	surance. Please let me hear from you in your calamity,
and accept my sympathy as well as that of my parents.
i	I intend to call and see what there is left of the dear old
place, and should like a line'from you in regard to the origin of the fire, and what the prospects are. I intend to
1	leave on the 5th prox., in the morning.
1	Please accept my kind wishes for yourself, and believe
me your old friend,	Vincent Hackmann.
Elgin, III , April 28,1879.
i	Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Ind.
Very Rev. and Dear Father:—It is with feelings of grief and sorrow that I essay to write these few lines of sympathy to you, whose heart must be sorely afflicted by the great loss,—a loss not to be measured in dollars,—a loss that will be felt far and near. To say that when I saw the announcement in the Chicago papers I was astounded, that my heart was filled with sorrow, would be but a tame f	and almost meaningless way of expressing those terrible
feelings, which caused a tear to start. Notre Dame burned! v Can it be? Even now, I can hardly realize it. That Alma Mater which watched over so many that were placed beneath her wings, training them in knowledge and piety, f with such affection, such attention,—swept from the earth ,	in a few short hours! Oh, it seems almost incredible. But,
!	alas it is so. Many are the students, many the fathers and
mothers who will hear of this calamity with true sorrow;
'	and so they should, for Notre Dame was the pride of every-
one who had the pleasure of a single glance at her stately
,	grandeur. Great was the love given her, and it is only
now, by the loss, that we really know in how high esteem we held that grand old College.
I hope, dear Father, that your efforts were rewarded by saving most, if not all, of the valuable libraries and other collections.
Oh, I feel as though I could write pages as I think upon the feelings that must fill the hearts of all who claim Notre Dame as their “ Gentle Mother ”; but should I occupy even the smallest portion of your time, which must now be devoted to the almost herculean task of rebuilding, in which I sincerely pray that the greatest success will crown your ।	efforts.
'	I assure you, dear Father, that you and the other mem-
bers of that holy Community have my deepest and most sincere sympathy in this time of great affliction.
Hoping to have the pleasure of meeting you ere many weeks, I remain your most obedient servanf,
D. E. Maloney.
Chicago, April 25,1879.
Dear Professor:—Last Wednesday evening I sat down to begin my Alumni Poem, and had written but a few verses when a despatch announced that Notre Dame was in flames. After the full particulars were explained to me, I concluded that my task was ended even before it was well begun. To say that I deplore the sad calamity, and sympathize with you all, would be useless; for nothing is more certain than that the misfortunes of our Alma Mater are deeply felt by her scattered students.
Yours with respect,	William T. Ball.
St. John’s College, Fordham, N. Y. City, April 30,1879.
Very Rev. Wm. Corby:	.
‘	Dear Father:—While I was reading the New York
Herald of the 23d, I saw an account of the burning of
dear old Notre Dame, but would not credit it until I heard from home, which confirmed the statement.
Now, dear Father, it must indeed be a hard blow to all there, and especially to the venerable Father Sorin,—who raised Notre Dame from a small beginning to be the grandest Catholic institution of learning in the country,— thus to see at the close of his saintly and laborious career . the work of years fall in a few hours the victim of the firefiend. All the Rev. Fathers here express much sympathy for you all, and hope you may succeed in being ready for the opening in September. Once more place your college under the care of that Blessed Virgin who guarded it for so many years. That you may see Notre Dame soon again flourish as in years gone by, is the prayer of
Your affectionate child in God,
Oliver J. Tong.
Nashville, Tenn., April 25,1879. Very Rev. Wm. Corby, C. S. C-, Notre Dame, Ind.
Very Rev. and Dear Sir:—I was pained to see in the Cincinnati Enquirer the sad account from grand old Notre Dame. You may rest assured that Notre Dame has the sympathy of every Nashville student in her misfortune. Hoping the prompt effort to rebuild will be crowned with success, and with best wishes from my brother and self,
I remain yours truly,
Thos. Foley (Class of’70.)
ANOTHER COUNTY HEARD FROM.
The following letter is from one of the smallest members of the Junior Department, but it shows that he possesses a big heart :
Chicago, April 30,1879.
Dear Father Corby:—I arrived home safe, and found my parents, sisters and brother well. I hope you and all your Community are well, and have recovered from the sad fright you had by that awful catastrophe. I suppose you have commenced to build up the College again, and I sincerely hope that you will have it finished by next September, so that I can return and continue my . studies. You cannot imagine how it pained me to see such a noble building in Armes—one that has for so many years prospered and gained the affection of thousands. Please give my regards to my fellow-students who have not gone home yet, and also to Father Walsh and Brother Lawrence. I am enjoying the best of health.
Hoping again that you are all well, I remain your grateful student,	. A. B. Mergentheim.
P. S.—My father and mother send their regards.
—The Catholic Universe, dated the day after the fire, con. tained the following:
It is with feelings of regret utterly inexpressible that we learn by this morning’s (24th) despatches oi the destruction of Notre Dame University. For many reasons we have had a sincere affection for this institution. The news comes just as we go to press, and we cannot now dilate upon the extent of the calamity. We know, however, that Notre Dame will arise from its present ashes, stouter and heartier than ever before. The Very Rev. Father Sorin, the Very Rev. President, faculty, students, and the Congregation of the Holy Cross, all have our sincere condolence. Our friend, Father Hudson, of the Ave Maria, is, we suppose, an equal sufferer by this conflagration. We presume the journal’s office, etc., was within the University’s buildings.
—The Catholic Mirror of April 26th published the following kind notice of our great disaster:
The friends of Catholic education will learn with deep regret of the burning of Notre Dame University, Indiana. The buildings had been erected at immense cost, and had reached magnificent proportions when, on Wednesday last, they were destoyed by fire. They were the delight and glory of the Very Rev. E. Sorin and the other Fathers of the Holy Cross, who, in their destruction, have met with a great loss, in which they will have the sympathy, and to repair which, the generous aid of thousands of Catholics all over the country, who have reason to love the seat of learning they had founded with infinite labor.
544	THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

learned to know and love the University take this opportunity of lending it a helping hand, what fear can there be that Notre Dame’s mission of good is destined to be long interrupted ?
Notre Dame, May IO, 187"9.
The Outlook for the Future.
The excitement is all over, and Notre Dame in sad sober earnest is beginning to realize the heavy losses she has suffered. Not a brick left standing of the grand University building—the musical department to be built up from the foundation—the libraries almost hopelessly ruined —the costly museums totally gone—the work of a lifetime scattered to the winds in a few hours—such was the picture that met the view of Very Rev. Father Sorin on his return from Montreal on the morning of the 27th. The stoutest-hearted might have been excused for giving way to a feeling of momentary discouragement. And yet however keenly the losses may be felt, it must not be supposed there has been any inclination to indulge in useless regrets or unmanly sorrow. The work of reconstruction has already begun, and is being pushed forward with vigor. From the moment that the destruction, of the old college building was an accomplished fact, but one resolution, found expression on every side, “There must and will be another at least equally good before September.” How strenuously everyone at or about Notre Dame is exerting himself to accomplish this result a short visit to the ruins will suffice to show. Everything in the shape of a cart, wheelbarrow or wagon has been impressed into the service to remove the bricks and rubbish and clean the foundations of the college-building. Every member of the community not otherwise engaged deems it a duty to help on the work to the utmost of his capacity. Plans have been already submitted by as many as eight prominent architects, and the corner-stone of the new college was blessed on Sunday last. Nearly four months will remain before September, and, with the very large force of workmen engaged, the building can certainly be completed in time. We hope to have a cut of the new college ready for the next issue of the Scholastic. At all events, it will be issued as soon as possible—probably in the course of the present month.
Now a few words as to the resources on which we count.
Colleges, like eveiything else, have felt the strain of the financial crisis through which the country has been passing during the past few years. Notre Dame had weathered the storm, and was just beginning to congratulate herself that a new era of prosperity was about to dawn when the fire came, bringing on her a dead loss estimated at nearly a quarter of a million. However, relying on the blessing of Heaven, which has never been refused her in the past —on the energetic efforts of a devoted community and faculty, and on the assistance of innumerable friends— foremost amongst whom she counts her students past and present, whose sympathies have gone out towards her stronger than ever in her trial—she has bravely set to work to repair her immense losses. “ Heaven helps those who help themselves,” is a familiar proverb, and to this assistance Notre Dame is determined that she shall be entitled. And if the hundreds who in past years have
Chicago’s Sympathy.
[From the Chicago Daily Tribune of Wednesday, May 7J
A public meeting will be held at the club-rooms of the Grand Pacific Hotel on next Saturday evening to take some appropriate action in regard to the recent destruction by fire of the University of Notre Dame. Mayor Harrison will preside at the meeting, and many of the leading citizens have already indicated a purpose to be present. The attendance should be large, for the University of Notre Dame has long been regarded as a sort of Chicago institution. A large proportion of its pupils every year go from this city, and the educational work which has been accomplished by the institution has been of direct benefit to this city. Now that a calamity has visited Notre Dame of the very same nature, and proportionately just as disastrous, as that which visited Chicago in 1871, it is highly commendable that Chicago should respond not merely with expressions of sympathy, but with a substantial contribution toward rapid rebuilding. Those who have read Father Sorin’s eloquent and manly appeal, based upon thirty-seven years of hard labor, will feel impelled to join in a Chicago movement to recognize the claim which misfortune of this character always has upon a populous, prosperous, and intelligent community.
—The following editorial notice appeared in. Pomeroy's Democrat of Saturday, May the 3d:—“ The most lamemtable catastrophe of the past week was the destruction by fire of the celebrated University of Notre Dame, in Indiana. The fire caught in the roof, and before the South Bend Fire Department could render any assistance, the whole grand building was wrapt in flames. The pictures, statuary, etc., in the upper portion of the building, as well as the choice geological and zoological specimens, collated in the museum, were nearly all destroyed. There were some 300 students in attendance, but under the cool and timely direction of the Rev. Father Corby, President of the institution, there was no panic, and they were all got out in safety. Father Corby proposes to begin without delay the work of rebuilding the University. He expects to have it completed and ready for the reception of students by the first or second week in September, when the next session will commence. The University has thousands of influential and wealthy friends in all parts of the country, and Father Corby will no doubt be cheerfully seconded in rebuilding it by their good will and substantial offerings. But the old students will be especially ready in this emergency to testify to their zeal in behalf of their beloved Alma Mater, and Father Corby and the excellent faculty of Notre Dame will undoubtedly be afforded the full measure of gratification in witnessing how well their laudable labors are appreciated and how devotedly the institution is loved by its alumni.”
—The following appeal is taken from the German of the Chicago ~Wochenblalt:
“ We last week related the mournful story brought to us over the wires that a seminary now lies in ashes which has given to the world many exemplary priests and distinguished men of all professions. Scattered over the United States, these children of Notre Dame to-day weep over the ruins of their loved Alina Mater; and well indeed may they sorrow. But 'Post nubila Phoebus,' i. e.;*After the clouds the light’ After the first outburst of grief, they should, and we are confident that they will, gladly exert themselves to restore her to her former state. We have no doubt that the friends and children of Notre Dame all over the land will vie with one another in helping on the work of making Our Lady’s University rise from its ruins more beautiful than ever before—a monument of the generosity of the nation that has for years been placed under the protection of the Mother of Grace and Mercy. This Mother herself now appeals in favor of the institution dedicated to her, and we trust that the appeal will not be in vain..........
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
545
“ We hope, then, with the blessing of God, that Our Lady’s College may rise in a few months new and glorious, and the number of those who will, as it were, make the. Blessed Virgin herself their debtor by contributing their mite towards rebuilding this nursery of religion and genuine morality, will be very great.”
Local Items.
—Luke J. Evers, A. B.. of ’79, will, it is probable, enter the Troy Seminary next September.
' —Rev. Father Kelly will spend the greater part of the four months’ vacation .in Chicago.
—The members of the Manual Labor School are under obligation to Mr. T. McNamara, C. S. C., for favors received.
—Part of the old Infirmary can be repaired, and utilized for a time at least. Work is progressing on this building rapidly.
—Bro. Theodore will spend the summer months in northern Wisconsin. Bro. Leander is visiting friends in Pennsylvania.
—Quite a number of the Juniors are to spend the two last months of the year at the College of the Sacred Heart, Watertown, Wis.
—In the presen t condition of the Commercial Department, Kickham is confident that he would have a “dead sure thing ” on the medal.
—The Senior Department is now reduced to three members; the Juniors number eight; while the Minims double the other two departments combined.
—Work! work! work! such is the order of the day at Notre Dame since the fire. Thirty thousand bricks were cleaned, carried off and piled up in one day. ’	.
—Among the first contributors to the College fund, was our esteemed old friend Rev. Father Ford. He may be getting old, but generosity is a virtue not impaired by .age.
—A letter from Mr. S. T. Spalding reports the South V solid in its democracy and in its sympathy for Notre Dame. Notre Dame has no more devoted friend than Mr. Spalding. , —The Annual Catalogue is now in course of preparation. At will probably be issued before the end of June. It will have engravings of both the old College and the new one.
—Prof. Lyons occasionally makes a flying call at Notre Dame. Now, that every day in the week is Wednesday, he has ample opportunity of displaying his partiality for Chicago. .	.
—Father Louage and his Novices are simply above praise. /From morning till night they have labored since the day ^of the fire. The boys of ’79-80 will certainly be under great obligations to them.
—Mr. Wile, of L iporte, is determined before the end of the season to obtain a sketch of the R iv. Director of the Music Department playing a solo on the instrument he has last mastered—the wheelbarrow.
■—“ Tell it not in Gath,” but the fact is that the fire has compelled quite a number of the Prefects to take to .the . stage.. In other wirds, the stage of Washington Hall is at present utilized for a dormitory.	- .
—Bro. Edward has been quite unwell for the past few days, from the effects of a severe cold caught after the fire. We' are happy to be able to say, however, that he is now w.ell on the way towards recovery.
—Rev. Father Stoffel spent a few days at Elkhart, assist-ingRev. FatherNoll, the popular and energetic pastor, in giving the Forty Hours’ Devotion. He will spend most of the four months’ vacation in Dubuque.
—The diplomas of all the courses, which were kept in Father Maher’s office, were lost in the fire. Others will be made out as soon as possible, and forwarded to the students to whom they have been awarded. '
—The first student of Notre Dame, Mr. Alexis Coquillard, of ’45, heads the list of contributors from South Bend, with the sum of $500. How many other old students will do as well ? Come, don’t all speak at once.
—John B. McGrath (Class of’80) left Notre Dame for
his home in New York city on Thursday, May 8th. All , the boys of ’78-’79 will be workers for Alma Mater, but few we know will be more efficient ttidniMr. McGrath.
—For real, solid work about the ruins—work for which we are willing to vouch, and in which there is no nonsense or humbug—it is likely that the prize would be awarded, ex aquo, to Rev. Father Louage and Bro. Alexander.
—Before the week is out there will probably be a hun-' / dred workmen camping on the Campus. An excellent op- * portunity will be afforded to resurrect good old army songs of the “Tenting to-night on the old camp-ground” style.
—Prof. Edwards had a very hurried trip to Montreal.
He left Notre Dame at 9 o’clock p. m. on Wednesday evening, April 23d., to inform Very Rev. Father General of the disaster, and was back on the following Sunday morning.
—Rev. Father Condon came on a visit to Notre Dame the day before the fire. He kindly offered accommodations / till July to such students as preferred not to return to their homes immediately. Several availed themselves of his kind offer.
—We were glad to hear from our young friend G. H. Donnelly. The sentiments which he expresses in his letters are just what we had the right to expect from a whole-souled, manly young gentleman such as we always knew . him to be. ~~
—No decision has yet been reached in regard to First ' Honors. It is probable that the names of those who would have been entitled to them will figure in the Catalogue, though for very obvious reasons it is not likely medals will be given.
—Rev. Father Zahm, after a short trip to Huntington, Indiana, will go off on a collecting tour to the far West. He expects to be able to kill two birds with one stone,—or, in other words, to lay the corner-stone of a new museum while out in the mining districts.	,
—The great Catholic school at South Bend—the most extensive denominational establishment of the kind in the country—was burned yesterday. The University building, Music Hall and several other buildings in the grounds were included in the destruction.—Chicago Times. "
—The new College will be at least as imposing as .the old one, and mo-e commodious. It will present’s front of three hundred feet and be five stories in height. Eight architects have already sent in plans, one of which will be adopted before the close of the present week.
—Bro. Alexander has peen appointed general superin- , tendent of the works. Whether he is likely to prove’effi- i/ cient or not, we are willing to leave to the decision of those who have been in his classes. Come, friend Mergy, in your next let us have your opinion on this point.
—Mr. J. J. Quinn will, we believe, soon enter upon the practice of law at Champaign, Ill., in which career we think it quite safe to predict that he will succeed. . To Mr. Quinn’s credit be it said that he has considered it a duty to do all he can for Alma Mater before thinking of himself.	’-.A •
—The study-hall for the Preparatory, ana,Commercial / Departments is now located in the Alanual Labor School. / ’ The Collegiate Department keeps guard ovdr Prof.’LvonsY goods and chattels in the gallery of the “ Hotel de Wash-' ington.” Messrs. J. P. Quinn and F. Devoto are thebone and sinew of this department.	' '	-
—The May Devotions opened as usual on the evenin^ of Wednesday, April 30th. But, alas! how changed the scene / from the brilliancy and enthusiasm of other years! Tife^ opening sermon was preached by Very Rev. President Corby, in which this contrast and the disaster which had caused it were very touchingly alluded to.
—The Minims were ready to reopen the campaign on Monday, April 28th. Twenty-five of the little fellows now answer, the roll-call. Science Hall has been fitted up for i a class-room, the old basement serves as a dining-room, and the dormitories are located in Washington Hall, now known almost exclusively as the “Hotel de Washington.”
—The congregation which was assembled in the Church -	/
of the Sacred Heart on Sunday, April 27th, was the largest' ' we ever saw within the building. A short instraction on *
846
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the “Lessons of the Fire” was preached by Very Rev. Father General. During the day the ruins were visited by thousands of persons from South Bend and neighboring towns.
—The Rev. Professor of Philosophy finds that the extra muscle which he has been developing within the past year can now serve a very useful purpose. Quite a spirited contest is maintained between him and the Editor of the Scholastic, the point at issue being which of the two can manage the larger load of bricks. The odds, so far, seem to be on the side of the newspaper man.
—A. J. Hertzog, A. B., was the last member of the Class of ’79 to bid adieu to Notre Dame. For four years the College had been his home, and to separate from it forever was a more disagreeable undertaking than he had anticipated. He, however, stoutly denies the truth of the report that he fears the recent exodus to Kansas will prevent him from meeting with a proper reception down at Natchitoches.
—The Rev. Director of the Music Department is evidently determined to “ put this thing through ” with a vengeance. He cannot, it is true, wheel away a very large load, but to witness his exertions on the top of a brick-pile, as with taper-fingers waving in air he exhorts his assistants to “ Fire ’em up, boys! ” is something never to be forgotten. Bros. Basil and Leopold are likewise simply indefatigable.
—Our young friend J. A. Gibbons, of South Bend, comes out too see us occasionally. No one is more anxious to see the new College built, as he complains of being bored to death by having nothing to do at home. We came across him one day last week as he was busily engaged in help-iing on the work by endeavoring to batter down a six-story wall by throwing brickbats at it We are sorry to say, however, that his zeal on that occasion was not crowned with success.
—We caught a bird’s-eye view of Rev. Father O’Sullivan, of Laporte, on the night of the fire. He was at the time hatless and coatless, and standing on the highest peak of the roof of Science Hall. We met him shortly afterwards on terra firma, when he expressed himself as intensely disgusted at finding on his arrival so very little for him to do. He thinks that with judicious management, enough of the big fire.might have been spared to give the Laporte delegation something like a fair chance.
—Rev. E. S. Lilly celebrated the 25th anniversary of his arrival at Notre Dame on Tuesday, May 6th. He received the warm congratulations of his many friends and wellwishers on the occasion, and those who have recently witnessed his indefatigable labors at the ruins, and who wish that Notre Dame may long enjoy the services of so efficient a worker, say with one voice: “ May he be spared to celebrate his seventy-fifth! ”
—On the night of the fire, the students camping in Washington Hall and on the Campus beguiled the early hours of the night away by singing snatches of old familiar songs. “The Old Home isn’t what it used to be” was evidently the favorite. Sitting in full view of the unsightly ruins of the college-home which they had so dearly loved and of which they had been so proud, the boys entered into the spirft of the plaintive old ballad, and their rendition of it was certainly very affecting.
—Everyone agrees that Very Rev. Father General can wheel off a load of bricks with great grace and dignity. We do not wish to discourage the efforts of a conscientious worker, but, still, regard for historical accuracy compels us to state our conviction that Very Rev. Father Granger would scarcely command a large salary among the horny-handed sons of toil. It may be the want of skill of the loader that makes the cart almost immediately capsize, but we don’t by any means say that this Is an unquestionable fact.
—Rev. Father Neyron has had to begin the world again at the age of eighty-seven. He consoles himself, however, with the reflection, that few men around Notre Dame are able to endure as much as he claims that he can. We met him the day after the fire, lively as ever, his serenity ruffled only by the thought that the perfidious photographer’s scheme had at last succeeded. He informed us that he had camped out the night before, but the twinkle in his eye as he made the statement convinced us that it would be well to take it “cum grano sailis." He has since found quarters at the Scholasticate.
—The many friends of W. W. Giddings will present his name to the Third Ward as a candidate for Councilman. Mr. Giddings has experience as a Concilman, is deservedly popular, and will prove, if nominated, a successful candidate.— South Bend Herald.
We are not particularly anxious to know what the political opinions of Mr. Giddings are, but if Notre Dame had the opportunity of showing by her votes her gratitude for the services rendered by him during and since the fire, we are afraid that the way would not be made any the easier for his opponent. “ A friend in need is a friend indeed,” and when the hour of need came the College found out how sincere was his friendship. There is scarcely a prominent man in South Bend to whom Notre Dame does not since the fire gladly acknowledge herself under obliga-tion—but to few, very few indeed, has she reason to be more deeply grateful than to Mr. W. W. Giddings.
—The reason why we mention it is because we know that the other members of the 4th Latin won’t say anything about it. Two of the members of the above Class had	,
made up their minds to remain during the summer months and render themselves generally useful. Bright and early on the morning of April 30th they began work—loading up a wheelbarrow which the professor was to wheel away.
Whether a wall six feet thick is more difficult to scan than	!
a hexameter, we will not venture to decide, but the fact is that before sundown the enthusiasm of the two young gentlemen had considerably cooled. The next day had to chronicle their sudden disappearance from the classic shades of Notre Dame, and the brick pile which knew them on the morning of April 30th will know them no more forever.
—A lady—the mother of two of our last year’s students— writes as follows to Very Rev. President Corby: “ I will recommend your college to every one I know. I will visit all my friends, and I know that I can collect something from everyone. I only wish that I were rich enough to send	1
you ten thousand dollars at once; but as this is impos-	g
sible, I will tell you what I am going to do. My hired girl has just left me, and I will try with the help of my	j
children to do all the work for four weeks. This will save	’
ten dollars, which I shall be hippy to send you as my mite in aiding to rebuild your noble institution.” Very Rev.
President Corby says that no contribution that can come .in will be more highly prized by him. And this letter is but one of many which he every day receives. Really, we are almost reonciled to our heavy losses when we think of	J|
the devoted affection for Notre Dame which the fire has	I
been the means of revealing.	|
—We last week informed our readers of the sad accident	.
that befell Notre Dame. We had intended, this week,	j
certain editorial mention with regard to the character and	j
influence of this superb institution so loved in Western	v
country, but find that little would be left us to say after	i
the very full remarks of the South Bend Tribune, for	I
which, together with an advanced proof on the subject from	j
the forthcoming issue of the Ave Maria, we are indebted	’
to the thoughtful consideration of our most excellent and	1
respected friend, Father Hudson, the editor. It is a pleas-	I
ure to be able to announce that there will be no delay in	'1
the publication of his journal, devoted to the honor and	k
service of the Mother of God. We shall remind our	’
readers who have felt the weight of this calamity to Catholic educational interests, that a dollar of their sympathy promptly forwarded to Notre Dame, will be of more practical value than a thousand letters of ever so respectful and sincere a condolence.—Catholic Universe, Cleveland.
McGee's Illustrated Weekly of May the 17th gives in connection with an account of the burning of the University, three illustrations—one, of the University buildings before the fire, the others, respectively, an exterior and interior , view of the main building after the fire. They take up nearly a page of that valuable periodical. From its editorial columns we clip the following friendly notice:
“ The almost total destruction of the buildings of the University of Notre Dame is a real misfortune to the Catholics of the United States. Notre Dame is the centre of education and culture in the West, and anything that may im-	i
pair its usefulness, even for a lime, is much to be regretted.	j
The insurance on the University build ings scarcely covered one-fourth of the loss, and the loss to the Church and the
THE NOTRIJ DAME SCHOLASTIC.
547
cause of education, by even a temporary cessation of the workings of the University, cannot be estimated, and can hardly be repaired. We are glad to learn that the office of the Ave Maria was unscathed. The Ave Maria, the Scholastic and their reverend editors have many friends. It is hoped that these friends will hasten to assist, by their contributions, in restoring the University of Notre Dame to its former usefulness. The mere mention of this institution, as the one dearest to the heart of Father Sorin, ought to cause a flood of contributions to flow westward.”
[From the South Bend Tribune, April 28th.]
Sympathy for Notre Dame.
THE MEETING OF CITIZENS AT THE OPERA HOUSE ON SATURDAY EVENING.
In accordance with an adjournment taken from Thursday evening, a meeting, of citizens was held in the Opera House on Saturday evening, for the purpose of giving a public expression of sympathy to our neighbors of Notre Dame for the great loss they have recently sustained by the burning of their magnificent University building. A large number of the older and substantial men of the city were present, besides many others. In the absence of Mr. Clem Studebaker, who was chosen president at the previous meeting, at the suggestion of Judge Turner, who called the house to order, Hon. William Miller was called to the chair, and R. H. Lyon, of the Tribune, and C. N. Fassett, of the Register, and C. A. Davis, of the Herald, were chosen secretaries. A committee on resolutions was next appointed by the chairman, consisting of Judge T. G. Turner, Judge T. S. Stanfield and Hon. A. Anderson. The committee reported the following preamble and resolutions, which were unanimously adopted.
Referring to the destruction of the main edifice and some of the smaller buildings of the University of Notre Dame du Lac, on the borders of our city, Wednesday, the 23d inst., which calamity has occasioned a pecuniary loss of great magnitude besides suspending the collegiate functions of one of the best as well as one of the largest institutions in our country, we, citizens of South Bend, Indiana, in mass meeting assembled, do resolve as follows:
1.	That the misfortune, distressing and discouraging as it is to the Institution and its locality, has a significance of a more general character, causing, as it must, grief to thousands of the absent and devoted friends of Notre Dame, in this and othir lands.
2.	That we tender to the President and faculty of the University the assurance of our sorrow and our sympathy in this hour of affliction, and, reserving pecuniary aid to individual volition, proffering, also, that moral support and assistance which spring alone from appreciative and friendly hearts.
3.	That we hope very soon to see the benign genius of Notre Dame rehabilitated in a new edifice, more capacious, more beautiful and more enduring than the pile so recently reduced to ashes, and, amid universal regrets, remitted to that history which records the nobility of deeds and uses.
4.	That a copy of these resolutions, attested by the hand of our chairman, be transmitted by him to Very Rev. Father W. Corby, President of the University.
Judge Turner followed the reading of the resolution with brief remarks, in which he said that sympathy was the bond that drew us all together. We sympathize with our neighbors in this hour of their affliction. South Bend and Notre Damehad grown up together, twin sisters, as it were, and the destruction of the great University was a calamity which vitally affected the interests of our city. The sympathy which Notre Dame most needed now was dollars and dimes. The institution must be rebuilt, and he believed that there were many here who were willing and anxious to contribute pecuniary aid towards its immediate reconstruction. [The Judge then read the beautiful poem by Prof. T. A. Dailey, a graduate of Notre Dame, and now a member of the St. Joseph County bar, which appears elsewhere in our columns.—Ed. Scholastic ]
Hon. A. Anderson arose, as he said, not to make a speech, but to read a communication from one who had been educated within the now ruined walls of the University, and who looking back and recalling the scenes of his school
boy days, had felt the pangs of grief spring up in his breast when he learned that the grand old institution had been felled to the earth. The communication, it was afterwards learned, was written by Mr. Alexis Coquillard, and reads as follows :
“ Gentlemen :—I understand that this meeting has been called for the purpose of sympathizing with our friends of Notre Dame in their great calamity, the recent fire, which has destroyed that beautiful institution in which we all took such a pride, and which swept away the earnings of a lifetime from that devoted man, Father Sorin. Coming here a young man in 1842, when this country was comparatively a wilderness, he settled upon the present site of Notre Dame, and started a school in an old log building which had formerly been used by Father Deseille, a missionary priest among the Indians, and from this small beginning, by his indomitable will and energy, aided by his noble band of followers, he steadily improved the beauty of the premises and added to the number and magnificence of the buildings. The institution had become an object of pride and interest to all of our citizens, as well as to them. In former days, when our present city was but a small hamlet, these same people did more to foster its growth than any and all other institutions in the city, because they were the first of any note who came among us, and during the long years they have been with us it has always been their intention to do all in their power for the benefit of our city and its inhabitants, as every merchant, mechanic, clothinghouse, boot and shoe store, drygoods store, grocery, lumberman and miller can testify. In fact, it matters not what vocation any of our citizens follows, they have all more or less been benefited, directly or indirectly, by the men that compose this institution; and now that we see them placed back to where they began 37 years ago, the hard earnings of all those years destroyed, it seems to me that this is a fitting time to show our appreciation of that noble old man, Father Sorin, and his associates, who have stood by us through thick and thin foi nearly a half a century. Father Sorin was absent from home, and I presume has not yet returned, and consequently knows nothing in regard to this meeting of sympathy held in their behalf.
“ Then, let us, all who are able, unite and show our sympathy in a substantial manner. As acts speak louder than words, let us by subscribing liberally, testify our appreciation and good will, in this their hour of misfortune, feeling confident that this testimonial of friendship and esteem shown them by our citizens will never be forgotten by the community and its founders.”
Mr. G. L. Murray moved that a committee of five be ap. pointed by the chairman to solicit aid for the University. Carried, and Messrs. Murray, T. G. Turner, Mayor Tong, A. Coquillard and Clem Studebaker were appointed as such committee.
Mr. Murray asked to be excused, and Mr. James Oliver was named in his stead. Judge Turner requested the committee to meet at his office at nine o’clock on Tuesday morning.
The meeting then adjourned.
[From the " Niagara Index,” published at the Seminary of Our Lady of the Angels.]
A Serious Loss.
Notre Dame University, the pride of the West, and one of the best Catholic colleges in the land, has fallen a victim to the dread fire-fiend. The news of this sad calamity sent a thrill of pain through the whole Catholic community and awaked the genuine sympathy of every patron of true education. We have particular reasons for regretting this disastrous termination of a prosperous and promising career. In it we distinguish a disheartening blow not alone to the immediate sufferers, but to the general cause of Catholic education in this country.
Unlike the faithful in the Old World, we, in America, can hardly boast a sufficiency, much less an abundance of higher educational institutions. The multiplication of our colleges has not kept pace with the marvellous growth of our Catholic population. This, probably, because of limited resources rather than want of will. Whatever the cause, the fact is unquestionable, and, accordingly, the comparatively few first-class seats of learning whereof we
548
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
can boast, are too precious not to make severely felt the loss of even the most insignificant of them. In this instance, ill as we can afford it, adverse fate has chosen not an insignificant, but a most illustrious victim—one with a brilliant record and a national reputation. Notre Dame, since its foundation, has accomplished a noble work. One of the pioneer colleges of the West, it has for years dispensed with lavish but well directed hand to hosts of applicants the blessing of true education, and conclusively demonstrated that when rightly appreciated and patronized, a Catholic college may attain a measure of prosperity and success equal to that of the most favored sectarian or non-sectarian institution in the land. As we said before, it is a pity that a career so honorable should have met with a check so abrupt and embarrassing. Yet we are confident, in view of its evident propriety and the necessities of the times, that Notre Dame will rise from its ashes more proudly and grandly than ever, to continue and perfect its grand mission, so disagreeably interrupted.
Roll of Honor.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. J. Gordon, H. C. Snee, 0. H. McGrath, G. Woodson, F. Gaffney, C. Long, J. S. Courtney, C. Crowe, F. Parsons, N. Nelson, A. Chirhart, G. Tourtillotte, J. M. Courtney, W. Rea, M. Herrick, P. S. Fitzgerald, E. Howard, G. Cas-tanedo, J. McGrath, J. B. Crowe, H. Bachmann, L. Young, C. Perry, H. Kitz, J. Chaves, G. J. Rhodius, T. McGrath, W. Coghlin, C. Young, C. Welty, H. Mattes, A. Hierb.
Class Honors.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. M. Courtney, J. S. Courtney. C. M. Crowe, H. C. Snee, M. Herrick, G. Woodson, E. A. Howard, W. F. Rea, J. A. Crowe, J. J. Gordon, G. Castanedo, 0. Perry, A. Hierb, F. Mattes, F. K. Parsons, C. J. Welty, T. McGrath, C. H. McGrath, J. S. McGrath, P. S. Fitzgerald, G Tourtillotte, C. Long, W. V. O’Malley, J. Chaves, L. J. Young, C. Young, A. Chirhart, F. Gaffney.
—Sunday, being the great Feast of St. Joseph as Patron of the Universal Church, was kept with great devotion.
—The Rosary and other Societies have held their regular meetings, but have not handed in a report this week.
—The devotions for the month of May were opened by our Reverend Chaplain, Father Shortis, his instruction being introductory to the series which will be given during the month.
—Monday afternoon the pupils availed themselves of the invitation given, and walked over to Notre Dame to view the sad spectacle of the ruins before they were cleared away.
—During those days of feverish excitement, the young ladies behaved admirably, going regularly, to class and awaiting patiently the assurance of their brothers’ safety,' which came towards evening. The private refectory used for visitors was kept open as long as the students gave that means of pleasure to do something for them. The’pupils of St. Mary’s held at meeting and agreed to send all their pocket-money to Very Rev. President Corby as an earnest offuture aid. .
—On the 1st of May a reception of Children of Mary was held in the Chapel of Loreto. After a touching instruction, the following were received to full membership: Misses Mary Mullin, Mary English, Annie Jones, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Catharine Danaher, Angela Dillon, Alicia Donelan. As aspirants: Misses Bridget Kelly, Catharine Claffey, and Lilly Lancaster. Rev. Father Shortis
officiated at the ceremony. Rev. Father Toohey preached a most practical sermon in the evening. “The Finding of the Holy Cross ” was the subject of the next evening’s instruction, followed by the usual ceremonies of that great festival of the Church.
—On Sunday evening Very Rev. President Corby, accompanied by Rev. Father Zahm, distributed the usual good points, and afterwards made a speech relative to the disastrous event at the University. He said the lesson to be learned was to keep the heart free from material things, so that the soul shall reach that home which cannot be destroyed. He was full of hope that God would enable them to rebuild by September, spoke of despatches and letters of condolence already received, but none gave him the happiness he experienced when reading the one from those before him. The thought of their thus voluntarily depriving themselves of little gratifications came as the odor of a rose to refresh and cheer. He finished by inviting them to see the ruins of 1879,—and also to visit the ’ new University which he fully expected to meet their view on the first of next September.
—At the weekly academic reunion, Very Rev. Father-General was welcomed home again. Miss Hope Russell expressed in a few words the heartfelt sympathy of those before him, ahd whose faces showed the deep interest felt in his present severe trial. In return he recounted the way the sad news reached him in Canada, which he would have left on the next train to take ship for France. Also the many incidents for which he was most grateful to God—one, “that he was spared the sight of the college in flames, was a special mercy.” He has now to begin again, fully trusting the work to God, who will draw good out of evil; that he had blesstd that day the first stone, and placed the erection under the patronage of St. Joseph, whose name is on the county and river, besides being borne by his Brothers (Josephites), the second branch of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, and who seemed to wish it; for on the first of May he bad been prevented, the next day it rained, and so St. Joseph would have his right. He said if he could live to see the college rebuilt, and poor Saint Mary’s grounds covered with her proposed plan of years’ standing, be would be willing to go, for his work wouid be accomplished: but all, all must be in submission to the Divine will of God.
RoH of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Sarah Moran, Hope Russell, Louisa Kelly, Ida Fisk.
1st Senior Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Teresa Killelea, Annie Maloney, Rebecca Neteler, Ellen McGrath, Eleanor Keenan, Sarah Hambleton, Aurelia Mulhall, Annie Woodin, Zoe Papin, Mary Birch.
2d Sr. Class—Misses Catharine Hackett, Grace Glasser, •Ellen Galen, Annie Rjan, Alelaide JCirchner, Annie Cavenor, Angela Ewing, Emma Shaw, Catharine Ward, Catharine Danaher, Adella Gordon, Elizabeth Walsh, Philomena Wolford, Alice Farrell, Mary Brown, Mary Sullivan, Catharine Lloyd, Harriet Buck, Elizabeth Schwass.
3n Sr. Class—Misses Henrietta Rosing, Angela Dillon, Alicia Donelan, Pauline Hills, Annie McGrath, Adella Geiser, Anna Cortright, Catharine Hoadley, Agnes Joyce, Catharine Claffey, Annie Jones, Eilena Thomas, Martha Wagoner, Mary Ussel-mann, Lucie Chilton, Louisa Neu, Josephine Mitchell.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses Mary Fitzgerald, Marie Dallas, Mary Feehan, Mary Mullen, Linda Fox, Ina Capede, Kathleen Wells, Ollie Williams, Mary English, Caroline Gall, Minna Loeber.
2d Preparatory Class—Misses Teresa Zahm, Annie Orr, Agnes McRinnis, Charlotte Van Namee, Lillie Lancaster, Mary Campbell, Mary Hake, Laura French, Margaret Cleghorn, Johanna Baroux. -	-
2d Div.—Misses Mabel Hamilton, Bridget Kelly, Ida Torrents, J ulia Butts, Annie Leydon, Annie Loeschei, Minnie Cox, Sarah Purdy, Ellen Kinzie.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses Sabina Semmes, Elise Lavoie, Julia Wells, Maud Casey, Angela Watson, Ellen Cavanagh, Hattie Arlington, Celestine Lemontey, Matilda Kildaire, Mary Lyons, Sophie Papin, Mary Paquette, Mary Chirhart.
1st Jr. Class—Misses Ada Clarke, Jessie Pampel, Julia Cleary, Elizabeth Consadne, Elise Papin, Minnie Fisk.
2d Jr. Class—Misses Jane McGrath, Isabella Scott, Martha Zimmermann.
3d Jr. Class—Miss Manuelita Chaves.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	549
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN LATIN.
Misses lorantha Semmes and Pauline Hills.
FRENCH COMPOSITION.
1st Class—Misses Eleanor Keenan, Mary McGrath, Clara Silverthorn, Annie McGrath.
2d Div.—Misses Henrietta Rosing, Ellen Galen, Marie Dallas, Elise Lavoie.
2d Class—Misses Grace Glasser, Zoe Papin, Ella Mulligan.
2d Div.—Misses Angela Ewing, Emma Shaw, Mary Casey, Mary Birch, Martha Wagoner.
3d Class—Misses -Mary Brown, Louisa Neu, Annie Cavenor, Annie Maloney, Annie Cortright, Mary Campbell, Linda Fox, Mary Cox.
4th Class—Misses Philomena Wolford, Annie Ryan, Mary Feehan, Oll’e Williams, Johanna Baroux, Mary Sullivan, Anne Jones, Mary English, Annie Orr, Mary Hake, Ada Clarke, Sophie Papin, Sabina Semmes, Ellen Hackett, Josephine Mitchell, Julia Cleary.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Adelaide Kirchner, Rebecca Neteler, Mary Usselman, Caroline Gall.
2d Class—Misses Elizabeth Walsh, Adella Gordon, Elizabeth Schwass, Martha Pampel.
3d Class—Misses Ina Capelie, Alice Farrell, Minna Loeber, Catharine Claffey, Catharine Hackett, Charlotte Van Namee, Edith Botsford.
4th Class—Misses Alice Donelan, Catharine Hoadley, Martha Pampel, Catbarine Ward, Mary Fitzgerald, Agnes Joyce, Annie Woodin, Maud Cpsey, Matilda Kildaire, Mabel Hamilton.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
Graduating Class—Misses Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Elizabeth Kirchner, Minerva Spier.
1st Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
2d Div.—Miss Eleanor Keenan.
2d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck, Angela Dillon.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Usselman, Mary Sullivan, Henrietta Rosing, Teresa Killelea, Louisa Neu.
3d Class—Misses Annie McGrath, Mary Brown, Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Campbell, Emma Lange, Alice Farrell, Catharine Hoadley, Aurelia Mulhall.
2d Div.—Misses Mary McGrath, Elizabeth Walsh, Caroline Gall, Catharine Hackett, Anna Maloney, Mary Taggart.
4th Class—Misses Annie Cortrigh1’, Mary Mullen, Marie Dallas, Mary English, Emma Shaw, Kathleen Wells, Catharine Martin.
2d Div.—Misses Annie Hermann, Ann Leydon, Zoe Papin, Angela Ewing, lorantha Semmes, Ellen Hackett, Edith Botsford.
5th Class—Misses Martha Pampel, Annie Woodin, Mabel Hamilton, Annie Cavenor, Ida Torrent, Josephine Mitchell, Della McKerhe, Marie Plattenburg, Charlotte Van Namee, Laura French.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Garrity, Annie Jones, Sarah Purdy, Mary Birch, Linda Fox, Mary Mulligan, Minna Loeber, Elizabeth Schwass, Agnes Joyce, Mary Hake, Eleanor Thomas, Paulina Hills, Catharine Danaher, Matilda Kildaire, Mary Claffey.
6th Class—Misses Mary Casey, Bridget Kelly, Julia Wells, Maud Casey, Rebecca Neteler, Annie Orr, Ellen Cavanagh, Elise Dallas, Mary Feehan, Ellen Mulligan.
2d Div.—Misses Agnes McKinnis, Catharine Lloyd, Johanna Baroux, Alicia Donelan, Philomena Wolford, Lucie Chilton, Annie Ryan, Grace Glasser, Mary Fitzgerald, Ellen Kinsey, Catharine Ward, Julia Barnes, Lilly Lancaster, Mary Tam.
7th Class—Misses Elise Papin, Julia Cleary, Mary Chirhart, Isabella Hackett.
8th Class—Misses Blanche Garrity, Martha Zimmerman, Ada Clarke, Manuelita Chaves, Angela" Watson.
2d Div.—Misses Ellen Lloyd, Emma Fisk, Julia Butts.
9th Class—Misses Celestine Lemontey, Aunie Loescher, Harriet Arlington.
Harp—2d Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
3d ’Class—Misses Angela Dillon, lorantha Semmes, Mary Brown, Mary Campbell, Alice Farrell, Annie McGrath.
Organ—Miss A. Hermann.
Harmony—1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Elizabeth Kirctmer, Clara Silverthorn, Minerva Spier.
2d Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
3d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck.
Elementary Thorough-Bass Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Brown, Angela Dillon, Eleanor Keenan, Teresa Killelea, Alice Farrell, Mary McGrath, Mary Ueselmann, Andie McGrath, Louisa Neu, Mary Campbell.
General Theoretical Classes—Best notes for the week— Misses Caroline Gall, Angela Ewing, Henrietta Rosing, Gatha rine Hackett, Annie Maloney, Mary Mullen, Kathleen Wells, Marie Dallas, Annie Hermann, Catharine Danaher, Martba Pampel, Agnes Joyce, Rebecca Neteler, Mabel Hamilton, Eleanor I’homas, Elizabeth Schwass, Mary Casey, Mary Campbell, Laura French, Emma Shaw, Mary Plattenburg, Catharine Claffey, Pauline Hills, Ida Torrent, Josephine Mitchell, Grace Glasser, Mary Fitzgerald, Alicia Donelan, Lucie Chilton, Linda Fox,
Philomena Wolford, Annie Orr, Mary Garrity, Maud Casey, Mary Chirhart, Martha Zimmerman, Elise Papin, Ada Clarke, Catha-rine Ward, Manuelita Chaves.
Technical Exercises—Misses Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Minerva Spier, Elizabeth Kirchner, Ellen Galen, Eleanor Keenan. Harriet Buck, Angela Dillon. Mary Usselman, Henrietta Rosing, Louisa Neu, Adelaide Kirchner, Emma Lange, Catharine Hoadley, Elizabeth Walsh, Aurelia Mulhall, Caroline Gall, Catharine Hackett, Annie Cortright, Marie Dallas, Mary English, Kathleen Wells Emma Shaw, Anna Hermann, Angela Ewing, Martha Pampel, Mabel Hamilton, Ida Torrent, Mary Taggart.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class—Miss Elizabeth Kirchner.
2d Div.—Miss Adelaide Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Mary Usselman, Adella Gordon.
3d Class—Misses Catharine Hackett, Adelaide Geiser, Alice Farrell. Aurelia Mulhall.
4th Class—Misses Mary Casey, Mary McGrath, Emma Shaw, Zoe Papin, Anna McGtath, Mary Birch, Angela Ewing, Harriet* Buck.
5th Class—Misses Sarah Purdy, Della McKerlie, lorantha Semmes, Mary Plattenburg, Ella Cavanagh, Ina Capelle, Katie Martin, Laura French, Martha Wagoner, Anna Loescher.
ABT DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
3d Class—Misses Julia Butts, Catharine Campbell, Mary Sullivan, Mary English, lorantha Semmes, Sarah Purdy, Sophie Papin, Maud Casey, Minna Loeber, Ellen Mulligan.
oil painting.
1st Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Emma Lange.
2d Class—Misses Agnes Joyce, Harriet Buck, Sarah Hambleton.
painting in water-colors.
1st Class—Misses Rebecca Neteler, Sarah Moran.
2d Class—Misses Hope Russell, Teresa Killelea, Marie Dallas, Ellena Thomas, Angela Dillon, Anna Cortright, Mary Campbell, Laura French.
3d Class—Miss Elizabeth Schwass.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Teresa Zahm, Martha Pampel, Josephine Mitchell, Catharine Danaher, Catharine Hackett, Elizabeth Walsh, Ollie Williams. Mary Fitzgerald, Martha Wagoner, Ellen Kinzie, Bridget Kelly, Ella Cavanagh, Ina Capelle, Mary English, Mabel Hamilton.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Annie McGrath, Laura French, Sophie Papin, Catharine Campbell, Maud Casey, Charlotte, Van Namee, Linda Fox, Julia Wells, Margaret Cleghorn, Bridget Haney, Matilda Kildaire, Mary Hackett, Annie Orr, Agnes McKinnis, Ella Mulligan, Gen -vieve McGrath, Johanna Baroux, Mary Lyons, Elise Dallas, Ada Clarke, Jess:e Pampel, Mary Feehan, Lillie Lancaster, Mary Paquette, Manuelita Chaves, Elizabeth Consadine, Elise Papin, Julia Cleary, Mary Chirhart, Belle Scott, Annie Leyden, Lorena Walsh.
ORNAMENTAL NEEDLEWORK.
1st Class—Misses Annie Herrman, Bridget Kelly, Louisa Neu, Mary Hake, E izabeth Schwass, Mabel Hamilton, Angela Dillon, Ellena Thomas, Sarah Hambleton, Mary Casey, Teresa Kilelea.
2d Div.—Misses Agnes Joyce, Minna Loeber, Marie Plattenburg, Mary Casey, Ollie Williams. Mary Sullivan, Annie Woodin, Annie Jones, Sarah Purdy, Caroline Gall.
PLAIN SEWING.
1st Class—Misses Mary Usselman, Mary Birch, Ina Capelle, Mary Brown, Annie Htrmann, Annie Maloney, Clara Silverthorn, Mabel Hamilton, Catharine Lloyd, Sarah Moran, Ollie Williams, Emma Lange, Teresa Killelea, Zod Papin, Adelaide Kirchner, Annie Cavenor.
2d Class—Misses Alicia Donelan, Mary Mullen, Della McKerlie, Agnes Joyce, Sarah Hambleton, Catharine Hackett,Philomena Wolford, Catharine Danaber, Catharine Ward, Louisa Neu, Elleua Thomas, Martha Pampel, Henrietta Rosing, Mary Sullivan, Ida Torrent.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Hope Russell, Sarah Moran, Ellen McGrath, Clara 8il-verthorn, Rebecca Neteler, Annie Maloney, Teresa Killelea-Emma Lange, Ellen Galen, Catharine Hackett, Mary Brown, Mary Plattenburg, Elizabeth Schwass, Catharine Lloyd, Catha, rine Danaher, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Grace Glasser, Adnie Cavenor, Elizabeth Kirchner, lorantha Semmes, Angela Dillon, Henrietta Rosing,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Alicia Donelan, Elena Thomas, Agnes Joyce. Josephine Mitchell Martha Wagoner, Panline Hills, Catharine Hoadley, Mary Fitzgerald, Ollie Williams, Martha Pampel, Catharine Martin, Margaret Piersol, Teresa Zahm, Mary Hake, Mabel Hamilton, B Id-get Kelly, Edith Botsford, Mary Tam. Annie Loescher, Effie Pearson, par excellence. Misses Louisa Kelly, Ida Fisk, Eleanore Keenan, Annie Woodin, Sarah Hambleton, Zod Papin, Aurelia Mulhall, Mary Casey, Adella Gordon, Elizabeth Walsh, Alice Farrell, Harriet Buck, Mary Usselman, Lucie Chilton, Adella Geiser, Anna Cortright, Annie Jones, Louisa Neu, Julia Barnes, Mary Mullen, Minna Loeber, Ina Capelie, Kathleen Wells, Mary English, Della McKerlie, Mary Campbell, Ida Torrents, Ellen Kinzie, Sarah Purdy, Caroline Gall, Ella Cavanagh.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Annie McGrath, Linda Fox, Agnes MeKinnis, Johanna Baroux, Annie Orr, Lillie Lancaster, Nellie Hackett, Annie Leydon, Mary Cox, Maud Casey, Angela Watson, Sabina Semmes, Hattie Arlington, Julia Cleary, Elizabeth Coosadine, Isabella Scott, Isabella Hackett, Mary Fitzgerald, Manuelita Chaves, par excellence. Misses Angela Ew.ng, Marie Dallas, Laura French, Charlotte Van Namee, Julia Butts, Matilda Kildaire, Celestine Lemontey, Martha Zimmerman, Jane McGrath.
Roll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Sarah Moran, Hope Russell, Ida Fisk, Leuisa Kelly. '
1st Sr. Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Eleanor Keenan, Teresa Killelea, Annie Maloney, Rebecca Neteler, Sarah Hambleton, Ellen McGrath, Annie Woodin, Mary Birch, Mary Casey, Zod Papin.	-
2d Sr. Class—Misses Catharine Hackett, Philomena Wolford, Adelaide Kirchner, Catharine Danaher, Mary Su’livan, Mary Brown, Mary Plattenburg, Emma Shaw, Annie Ryan, Grace Glasser, Annie Cavenor, Ellen Galen, Harriet Buck, Catharine Ward, Elizabeth Walsh, Adella Gordon, Angela Ewing.
3d Sr. Class—Misses Henrietta Rosing, Angela Dillon, Alicia Donelan, Pauline Hills, Lucie Chilton, Adella Geiser, Annie McGrath, Catharine Hoadley, Anna Cortright, Catharine Claffey, Agnes Joyce, Martha Wagoner, Annie Jones, EUena Thomas, Mary Usselman, Josephine Mitchell, Louisa Neu.
1st Prep. CIass—Misses Mary Feehan, Mary Fitzgerald, Mary Mullen, Marie Dallas, Ollie Williams, Kathleen Wells, Caroline Gall, Linda Fox, Julia Barnes, Ina Capelie, Minna Loeber, Mary English, Della McKerlie.
2d Prep. Class—Misses Teresa Zahm, Lilly Lancaster, Charlotte Van Namee, Annie Orr, Margaret Cleghorn, Johanna Baroux.
2d Div.—Misses Mabel Hamilton, Bridget Kelly, Sarah Purdy, Julia Butts, Ida Torrents, Ellen Kinzie, Mary Cox, Annie Loescher, Effie Pearson.
Jr. Prep.—Misses Sabina Semmes, Mary Lyons, Julia Wells, Angela Watson, Matilda Kildaire, Celestine Lemontey, Hattie Arlington, Maud Casey.
1st Jr.—Misses Ada Clarke, Elise Lavoie, Mary Chirhart, Elizabeth Consadine, Elise Papin, Jessie Pampel, Minuie Fisk, Julia Cleary.
2d Jr.—Misses Jane McGrath, Blanche de Chantal Garrity, Martha Zimmerman, Isabella Hackett, Mary Fitzgerald, Isabella Scott, Manuelita Chaves.
Latin—Misses lorantha Semmes, Pauline Hills.
PRENCH.
1st Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Eleanor Keenan, Ellen McGrath, Annie McGrath.
2d Div.—Misses Henrietta Rosing, Ellen Galen, Marie Dallas, Celestine Lemontey, Elise Lavoie.
2d Class—Misses lorantha Semmes, Zod Papin, Grace Glasser, Ella Mulligan.	.
3d Class—Misses Angela Ewing, Martha Wagoner, Mary Casey. Mary Birch, Lucie Chilton, Mary Mulligan.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Brown, Annie Maloney, Annie Cavenor, Louisa Neu, Mary Campbell, Annie Cortright, Nellie Kinzie, Linda Fox, Julia Butts. Laura French, Mary Cox.
4th Class—Misses Philomena Wolford, Mary Feehan, Annie Ryan, Ollie Williams, Johanna Baroux, Mary Sullivan, Annie Jones, Katie Wells, Ada Clarke, Annie Orr, Sophie Papin, Mary English.
2d Div.—Misses Sabina Semmes, Ellen Hackett, Josephine Mitchell, Julia Cleary.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Adelaide Kirchner, Rebecca Neteler, Caroline Gall, Mary Usselman, Annie Loescher.
2d Class—Misses Della Gordon, Elizabeth Walsh, Martha Pampel.
3d Class—Misses Ina Capelie, Minnie Loeber, Alice Farrell, Catharine Claffey, Catharine Hackett, Charlotte Van Namee.
4th Class—Misses Alicia Donelan, Catharine Ward, Mary Fitzgerald, Agnes Joyce, Catharine Hoadley, Martha Pampel, Annie Woodin, Mabel Hambleton, Maud Casey, Mary Chirhart, Matilda Kildaire.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC. .
Graduating Class—Misses Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Elizabeth Kirchner, Minerva Spier.
1st Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
2d Div.—Miss Eleanor Keenan.
2d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck, Angela Dillon.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Usselman, Mary Sullivan, Henrietta Rosing, Teresa Killelea, Louisa Neu.
3d Class—Misses Annie McGrath, Mary Brown, Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Campbell, Emma Lange, Alice Farrell, Catharine Hoadley.
2d Div.—Misses Mary McGrath, Elizabeth Walsh, Caroline Gali, Ca’harine Hackett, Annie Maloney, Mary Taggart.
4th Class—Misses Annie Cortright. Mary Mullen, Marie Dallas, Mary English, Emma Shaw, Kathleen Wells, lorantha Semmes, Catharine Martin.
2d Div.—Misses Ann Leydon, Z.e Papin, Angela Ewing, Ellen Hackett.
5th Class—Misses Martha Pampel, Annie Woodin, Mabel Hamilton, Annie Cavenor, Ida Torrent, Josephine Mitchell, Della McKerlie, Marie Plattenburg, Charlotle Van Namee, Laura French.
2d Div.—Misses Garrity, Jones, Purdy, Birch, Fox, Mulligan, Loeber, Schwass, Joyce, Hake, Thomas, Hills, Danaher, Kildaire, Claffey.
6th Class—Misses Mary Casey, Bridget. Kelley, Julia Wells, Maud Casey, Rebecca Neteler. Annie Orr, Ellen Cavanagh, Elise Dallas, Feehan, Ellen Mulligan.
2d Div.—Misses Agnes MeKinnis, Catharine Lloyd, Johanna Baroux, Alicia D >nelan, Pnilomena Wolford, Lucie Chilton, Annie Ryan. Grace Glasser, Mary Fitzgerald, Ellen Kinsey, Catharine Waid, Julia Barnes, Lilly Lancaster, Mary Tam.
7th Class—Misses Elise Papin, Mary Chirhart, Isabella Hack, ett.
8th Class—Misses Blanche Garrity, Martha Zimmerman, Ada Clarke, Manueli a Chaves, Angela Watson.
2d Div—Misses Ellen Lloyd, Emma Fisk, Julia Butts.
9th Class—Misses Celestine Lemontey, Annie Loescher, Harriet Arlington.
Harp—2d Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
3d Class—Miss-s Angela Dillon, lorantha Semmes, Mary Brown, Mary Campbell, Alice Farrell, Annie McGrath.
Organ.—.Miss A. Hermann.
Harmony—1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, (Elizabeth Kirchner, Clara Silverthorn, Minerva Spier.
2d Glass—Miss E'len Galen.	’
3d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Bulk.
Elementary Thorough Bass Class—Misses Adella Kirchner, Mary Brown, Angela Dillon, Eleanor Keenan, Teresa Killelea, Alice Farrell, Mary McGra h, Mary Usselman, Annie McGrath, Louisa Neu, Mary Campbell.
General Theoretical Classes—Best note for the week— Misses Ga'l, Ewing. Rosing, Hackett, Maloney, Mullen, Wells, Dallas, Hermann, Danaher, Pampel, Joyce, Neteler, Hamilton, Thomas, Schwass, Casey, Campbell, French, Shaw, Plattenburg, Claffey, Hills, Torrence, Mitchell, Glasser, Fitzgerald, Donelan, Chilton, Fox, Wolford, Orr, Garrity, Casey, Chirhart, Zimmerman, Papin, Clarke, Ward, Chaves.
Technical Exercises—Misses Geiser, Silverthorn, Spier, Elizabeth Kirchner, Galen, Eleanor Keenan, Buck, Dillon, Usselman, Rosing, Neu, Adelaide Kirchner, Lange, Hoadley, Elizabeth Walsh, Mulhall, Gall, Hackett, Cortright, Dallas, English, Wells, Shaw, Hermann, Ewing, Pampel, Hambleton, Torrence, Taggart.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class—Miss E izabeth Kirchner.
2d Div.—Miss Adelaide Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses Silverthorn, Usselman, Gordon.
3d Class—Misses Catharine Hackett, Adelaide Geiser, Alice Farrell.	'
4th Class—Misses Casey, McGrath, Emma Shaw, Zod Papin Anna McGrath, Birch, Angela Ewing, Harriet Buck.
5th Class—Misses Sarah Purdy, Della McKerlie, lorantha Semmes, Mary Plattenburg, Ella Cavanagh, Ina Capelie, Katie Martin, Laura French, Martha Wagoner. Anna Loescher.
ART DEPARTMENT.
.	DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
3d Class—Misses Campbell, Butts, Sullivan, English, Papin, Casey, Semmes, Ewing, Purdy, Loeber, Mulligan.
PAINTING IN .WATER COLORS.
1st Class—Miss Sarah Moran.
2d Class—Misses Russell, Cortright, Dallas, Killelea, Dillon, French, Thomas, Campbell.
3d Class—Miss Elizabeth Schwass.
OIL-PAINTING.
1st Class—Misses Emma Lange, Elizabeth Kirc&uer,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	551
2d Class—Misses Agnes Joyce, Rebecca Neteler, Sarah Hambleton, Harriet Buck.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SBNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Zahm Pampel, Mitchell, Wagoner, Kinzie, Hamilton, Danaher, Hackett, Campbell, Chilton, Kelly, Jones, Torrent, Williams, Fitzgerald, English.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses French, Campbell, Casey, McGrath, Cleghorn, Claffey, Watson, Papin, McKinnis, Fox, Orr, Wells, Dallas, Mulligan, Van Namee, Lyons, Mary Garrity, Blanche Garrity, Bridget Haney, Teresa Haney, Consadine, Clarke, Chaves, Papin, Cleary, Chirhart, G. McGrath, Lloyd, Zimmerman, Lavoie, Pampel, Paquette, Leyden, Cox.
ORNAMENTAL NEEDLEWORK.
1st Class—Misses Kelly, Neu, Hake, Schwass, Hamilton, Dillon, Thomas, Hambleton, Casey, Kilelea, Usselman.
2d Div.—Misses Joyce, Loeber, Plattenburg, Casey, Williams, Sullivan, Woodin, Joyce, Purdy, Gall.
PLAIN SEWING.
1st Class—Misses Usselman, Birch, Capelle, Brown, Bots-ford, Cavenor, Rosing, Pampel, Cortright, Hambleton, Hills, Gall, Williams.
2d Class—Misses Sarah Moran, Emma Lange, Adella Gordon, Mary Mullen, Zod Papin, Katie Lloyd, Katie Hackett, Alice Donelan, Angela Dillon, Annie Maloney, Philomena Wolford, Katie Danaher, Katie Ward, Bridget Kelly, Elena Thomas, Emma Shaw, Minnie Loeber, Louisa Neu, Delia McKerlie, Grace Glasser, Julia Barnes.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEAARTMENT.
Misses H. Russell, S. Moran, C. Silverthorn, R. Neteler, A. Maloney, T. Killelea, Z. Papin, E. Lange, D. Gordon, E. Galen, E.'Walsh, Brown, Piattenburg, E. Shaw, A. Ryan, C. Danaher, C. Ward, Sullivan, P. Wolford, G. Glasser, A. Cavenor, E. Kirchner, I. Semmes, C. Hackett, Usselman, L. Chilton, A Geiser, A. Dillon, A. Donelan, A. Cortright, A. Jones, E. Thomas, A. Joyce, J. Mitchell, P. Hils, C. Hoadley, J. Barnes, Mullen, M. Loeber, K. Wells, English, Fitzgerald, D. McKerlie, O. Williams, Pampel, Martin, Tam, Zahm, Campbell, Hake, Torrent, Rambilton, Kelly, Purdy, Botsford, Pearson, Attwood, par excellence. Misses Fisk, Kelly, McGrath, Keenan, Woodin, Birch, Hambleton, Casey, Kirchner, Farrell, Buck, Rosing, Neu, Wagoner, Capelle, Gall, Piersol, Kinzie, Cavanagh, Loescher.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Ewing, Annie McGrath, Claffey, Dallas, Fox, McKinnis, Baroux, Van Namee, Orr, Campbel), Hackett, Lancaster, Leyden, Cox, Casey, Papin, Semmes, Lavoie, Chirhart, Paquette, Cleary, Consadine. McGrath, Scott, Hackett, Manuelita, Chaves, par excellence. Misses Mulligan, Mulligan, Feehan, French, Cleghorn, Wells, Kildaire, Arlington, Clarke, Pampel, Fitzgerald.	.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
OM. PROCTOR [of’75], Civ 1 Engineer of City an . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main Street, Elkhart, Indiana Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR/ J. ST A.CE [of ’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Weeklv Newspapers.
The catholic Columbian, published weekly a' Columbus, O. Sub.’criptiont from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clarke, op 70.
THE A. VE MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.50.
Hotels.
THE BON D HOU^E, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House
THE MATTERSON HOUSE, Corner of Wa bash Ave. and Jackson Street, Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame
Visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matterson.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
The Chicago & North-Western Railway, embracing under one management the Great Trunk Bailway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with ita numerous Branches and connections, forma the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Ils CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul,Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest Ita LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine. Kenosha and Milwaukee. PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street: Omaha Office, 245 Farnham street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner of W. Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to	.
W. H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUG HITT,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t., Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Michigan Central Railway Time Table-Nov. 11, 1877.					
	•Mail	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accoro.	+ Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -“ Mich. City -“ Niks	 “ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson - - - Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a. m 11 10 “ 12 15 p. m 1 4o “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 “	515 p m. 740 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m. 3 35 “	19 00 pm 115 “ 12 35am 217 “ 4 45 “ 8 00 “
			•Jackson Express.		
					
	•Mail	♦Day Express.		+ Pacific Express	tEvening Express.
			5 40 a. m 8 40 “ 4 45p.m 4 30 a m 6	3t) “ 7	55 “ 10 30 “		
Lv. Detroit - - - -“ tackson - - -“ Kalamazoo - -“ Niles - - - -“ Mich. City - - Ar. Chicago ■ - -	7 CO a. m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 3'i “ 6 55 “	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		9 50 p m. 1245 a.m. 2 53 “ 424 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	5 20pm 940 “ 1235 a m 238 “ 415 “ 645 “
INiles and South. Bend Division.					
♦GOING NORTH.	♦GOING	SOUTH. Lv. So Btnd—8 45 a-m.	6 31 p.m. Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m.	415	pjn. “ N.Dame-8 52 “	6 38	“	11 N. Dame—7 40 “	448	“ Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	7 15	M	Ar. So- Bend—7 45 “	4 55	••					
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily.	J Saturday and Sunday excepted Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B Ledyard. G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl.	Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich' G. L. Eluott, Agent, South Bepd, Ind.	"					
552
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
w. S. Golsen.	D. B. Mullins.
GOLSEN & MULLINS,
Dealers in Chapin & Gore’s
NATIVE AND IMPORTED WINES.
FINEST IMPORTED CIGARS.
W. JS. Cor. I^aSalle & Monroe Sts.
Henby Styles, Manager.	Chicago.
f22-ly
p §
I
I p s
H P 0 GO
EDWARD BUYSSE, DEALER IN Watches, Clocks, -AUST ID JEWELRY. All Kinds of Engraving Done. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
A MAN
WHO IS unacquainted with the geography of this country, will see by EXAMINING THIS MAP, THAT THE
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST AND THE WEST J
Its main line runs from Chicago to Conncil Bluffs and Omaha, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo, Moline, Rock Island, Davenport, West Liberty, Iowa City, Marengo, Brooklyn, Grinnell, and Des Moines, (the capital of Iowa) with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fair-field, Eldon, Belknap, Centreville, Princeton, Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth and Atchison; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Bentonsport, Independent Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville, Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe, and Des Moines; Des Moines, to Indianola and Winterset; Atlantic to Audubon and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad which owns, controls and operates a through line between Chicago and Kansas.
This Company own and control theirSleeping Cars, which are inferior to none, and give you a double berth between Chicago and Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, or Atchison for Two Dollars and Fifty Cents; and a section for Five Dollars, while ail other lines charge between the same points. Three Dollars for a double berth, and Six Dollars for a section.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Illinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent DiningandRestaur antCars that accompany all through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents; or you can order what you like, and pay for what you get.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for differentjpurposes, (and the enormous passenger business or this line warranting it.) we are pleased to announce that this Company runs its PALACE SLEEPING CARS for Sleeping purposes, and its PALACE DINING CARS for Eating purposes. One other great feature of
our Palace Cara is a SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your "Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by;this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison, connections being made in Union depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS :
At CHICAGO, with all diverging lines for the East and South.
At ENGLEWOOD, with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern andPittsburg, Ft.Wayne & Chicago R. Rds.
At Washington HEIGHTS, with Pittsburg, Cincinnati & St. Louis R. R.
At LA Salle, with Illinois Centra] R. R.
AtPEOHIA,withP„P.& J.:P.,L.&D.;LB. & W.; BL Midland: and TM P. & W. Railroads.
At Rock ISLAND, with Western Union R. R. and Bock Island & Peoria Railroads.
At Davenpobt, with the Davenport & North-Western R. R-	.
At West Liberty, with the Burlington, Cedar Rapids & Northern R. R-
AtGBINNELL, with Central R. R. of Iowa.' AtDESMoines, withD. M. & Ft. DodgeR. R. At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R. R. At OMAHA, with B. & Mo. R. R. R. (in Neb.) At Columbus Junction, with Burlington, Cedar Rapids & Northern R. R.
At OTTUMWA, with Central R. R. of Iowa; St. Louis, Kan. City & Northern and C., B. & Q. R. Rds.
At KEOKUK with Toledo. Peoria and Warsaw; Wabash, and St. Louis, Keokuk & N.-W.R.Rds.
At Beverly, with Kan. City, St. J. & C. B. R. R.
At ATCHISON, with Atchison. Topeka & Santa Fe; Atchison & Neb. and Cen. Br. Union Pacific R. Rds.
At Leavenworth, with K. P. and K. Cen. R. Rds.
PALACE CABS are ran through to PEOBIA, BES MOXNES, COUNCIL BLUFFS, ATCHISON and LEAVENWORTH:	__ . _ .	. —
Tickets via this Line, known as the “Great Boek Island Boute, are sold by all Ticket Agents In the United States and Canada.
For information not obtainable at your home tlckat office, address, _ -A. TfuiyraALL.	S. ST. JOHN,
v Gen’l Superintendent,	.	Genl Tkt. and Pass’grAgt.
___	Chicago,.HL
4