The Scholastic.
PIVOTED TO THE
pTUDENTS.
Volume VII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JULY 4, 1874.
Number 44.
Thirtieth Annual Commencement of the ‘University of Notre Dame.
[From, the Chicago Daily Tribune, of June 25th.]
Notre Dame, Ind., June 24.—The Annual Commencement Exercises.of Notre Dame University commenced yesterday, that is so far as the public in general were concerned,—though Saturday last was what is known as
SOCIETY-DAY.
The preliminary exercises to the Thirtieth Annual Commencement were given on Society Day, June 20. The following programme was carried out in admirable style:
Music by the N. D. U. C. Band; an address from the Archconfraternity, by T. J. Murphy, on “Christian Education”,; an address from the St. Aloysius Philodemic Association, byE McSweeney, on “Pleasant Memories;” address from the Thespian Association, by E. J. McLaughlin, on “Dramatic Societies;” music; address from the Scientific Association, by M. H. Keeley of ’72, on the “Divine Idea; ” address from the Holy Angels’ Sodality, by J. E wing, on “ Paths of Virtue ”; music; address from the Columbian Literary Club, by J. F.Kelly,on “Advance;” address from the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, by W. P. Breen, on “ Progress;” music; closing remarks by the Rev. M. B. Rrown, Vice-President of the University.
A grand musical soiree was given in the University parlor on Sunday evening, in vjhich the most cultured musical students of the various departments took part, assisted by some distinguished performers from abroad.	.
After the entertainment in the parlor, some of the visitors present repaired to Prof. Lyons’ society room, where the ceremony of unveiling and blessing an exquisite statue of St. Cecilia, recently purchased in Paris and presented to the Professor by Mother Angela, of St. Mary’s Academy, was performed by the Very Rev. Alexis Granger.
Prof. Howard delivered a eulogy on the purity and loveliness of the Virgin Saint.
The Hon. A. C. Dodge followed the Professor in an able address, principally directed to the students of the University.
Mark Foote, of Burlington, la., delighted the audience with one of those choice little speeches which gave him such an enviable repute when a student at his Alma Mater.
PROGRAMME.
MONDAY, JUNE 22, 4 O’CLOCK, P- M.
EXERCISES BY THE GRADUATING CLASS. (introductory to the annual commencement.)
Entrance March—“Bay State”...........N. D. U. C. Band
Music,......................................Orchestra
Latin,.................................Tnos.	P. White
“ The Utility of Science,”..........Daniel	E. Maloney
Music—Piano,................................Carl Otto
“ Tlie Spirit of Our Age,”...............Wm.	J. Clarke
“ A Glance at Geology,”................Chas.	A. Berdel
Music,...............................N. D. U. C. Band
“ Influence of Literature,”............Louis	S. Hayes
“Knowledge,”.......................Henry W. Walker
Music—Piano,................................Carl Otto
“ The Greek Language and Literature,”... .Robert W. Staley “Comments on Esthetics,”.............William	W. Dodge
Music................................N. D. U. C. Band
Poem—Memorial,.......................Harold V. Hayes
“ Speculations on the Material Universe,”.Tnos. A. Dailey Commerce (Poem)...........................Wm.	T. Ball
Music—Piano and Violin,..........Carl Otto, C. Burger
ClosingRemarks,........................
Music—Quickstep “ Get up and Get,”..... ,N. D. U. C. Band
AMONG THE VISITORS	'
are the Hon. S. S. Hayes, of Chicago, orator of the day; -H. B. Miller, John Van Arman, Mrs. David Kreigh and daughter, Isaac S. Collins and wife, M. E. Dayton, Mrs. J... V. Clark, Mrs. 0. H. Brown, J. Clarke, K. G. Schinidt, Dan O’Hara, John Cochrane, J. J. Fitzgibbon, and many others, all of Chicago; T. L. Partridge, Bay City, Mich.;. J. F. Hoffheimer, Cincinnati, 0.; John Black and family, Milwaukee, Wis.; T. B. Farrington, Grand Rapids, Mich.; John Mulhall and family, St. Louis, Mo.; E. W. Kelly, Toledo, 0.; C. F. Campeau and family, Detroit; Charles ’ E. Kearney, Kansas City, Mo.; G. W. Crummey, St Paul, Minn.; J. M. Crummey, Summit, Wis.; George Ruger,: Lafayette, Ind.; J. B. Jennings, Portsmouth, 0.; J. Neil and daughter, St. Louis, Mo.; William Hake, Grand Rapids; Judge Ewing and family, Lancaster, O.; Bishop Gilmour, Cleveland; Bishop Borgess, Detroit; and many priests.
THE ALUMNI MASS.
At 6 o’clock yesterday morning, Solemn High Mass, on behalf of the Alumni, was celebrated, the Very Rev. A. Granger, Provincial of the Congregation of the Holy Cross,’ officiating. The mass sung was Stehle’s prize mass, “Salve Regina" for four voices. This Mass was selected from the celebrated Catalogue of the St. Cecilia Society of Germany. There was no Credo in the mass of the day, but an excellent “Ace Maria" by Arkadelt, fully compensated for its omission.
MEETING OF THE ALUMNL	]
At 2 p. m. the Alumni banquet was had, and an entertainment was given by the University to its Alumni, of whom about forty were present. Toasts were dispensed, with, and only letters were read from absent ones, of whom the Rev. D. J. Spillard, Austin, Texas; the Rev. W. Corby, Watertown, Wis.; E. B. Gambee, Canandaigua, N. Y.; H. B. Keeler, St. Mary’s Mission, Kan.; C. A. B. von Weller, St. Joseph’s College, 0.; Prof. William T. Johnson, Osceola, Mo.; Claude Riopelle, Detroit, Mich., were noted.	.
Gen. Lynch, of Elgin, HL, was announced as the orator of the Alumni, but he bad not had sufficient notice to prepare himself, and so delivered instead a few remarks, the main.' part of which were advice to the younger members of the Alumni as to their conduct in the world reflecting back on the University for good or evil. The Hon. S. S. Hayes, acknowledged the compliment of being called on, but excused himself from making a speech. The Hon. A. C.: Dodge, of Burlington, la.; Thomas F. O’Mahony, of Lake Forest, Ill.; Fathers Lemonnier and Carrier, Profs. Ivers and Stace, all made brief remarks.
THE REGATTA.
Soon after came the regatta on the lake, immediately in the rear of the University. The first race was with boats 25 feet in length, broad and substantial, and built rather for pleasure than for fast rowing. The distance was the length of the lake, turning around a buoy, and back, and-equalled about two-thirds of a mile. The boats are named. Pinta and Santa Maria. The former on straight pulling showed the best work, but on turning the buoy it lost badly, so that the Santa Maria came in ahead by a length, with time 4.27. The students cheered lustily for the winners, this being their first success. Had the lake been smooth they would undoubtedly have failed.
The second race was with boats 35 feet long, built in much the same style as the others, named Hiawatha and Minnehaha.	.
354
THE SCHOLASTIC.
HIAWATHA CHEW.
A. J. Mooney, stroke.
D.	E.-Maloney, 2d. and Capt.
H. Hayes, 3d.
F. Morass, 4th.
E.	Graves, 5th
D. J. McGinnis, 6th and bowoar.
A. J. Home, coxswain.
MIN N eHAHA URE W •
D. J. Hogan, stroke.
C. A. Berdel, 2d.
J. Gillen, 3d.
B. Euans, 4th.
R. Staley, 5tb.
H. Walker, 6th, Captain and bow-oar.
L. S. Hayes, coxswain.
Their distance was three times the length of the lake, making two turns, about a mile in all. From the start the Hiawathas showed that they would win the race, which they did easily. The regular stroke of the Minnehaha was absent. The time was 6.22. With the lake perfectly calm they have made it in 6.05. When the races were over, the prizes, consisting of rosetttes in red, white and blue, with a heavy gold anchor on each, were distributed to the winners by the hand of Mrs. A. C. Dodge, of Burlington, la.
THE EVENING EXHIBITION.
In the evening the exercises opened at Washington Hall by the N. D. U. Cornet Band, of seventeen members, with selections from the “Bohemian Girl” of Balfe. This was followed by the orchestra, with brass and string instruments, composed of fourteen members, in the overture to “ Poet and Peasant,” by Suppe. Both efforts seemed much admired, and were heartily encored.
The great attraction of the evening, however, was the play, which was put on the stage with fine effect. There were seventeen complete changes of scenery. The play was entitled, “Waiting for the Verdict; or, Falsely Accused,” dramatized by Colin H. Hazelwood, in three acts, and slightly remodelled for the Thespians by taking out the female characters and remaking them into male parts.
DRAMATIS PERSONS.
Jasper Roseblade,...............................C. A. Berdel
Jonathan Roseblade, (Father to Jasper and Claude),..................................E.	J. McLaughlin
Claude Roseblade,........................
Humphrey Higson, (Steward to Earl of Mil-
C. J. Dodge
ford),................................
Jonas Handle, (Formerly a Poacher)........ Owen Hylton, (Vicar of Milford),..........
Ray Smith, (a distant relative to Squinty),,
Lord Viscount Elmore, 1
Lord Chief Justice, J.....................
Lieutenant Florville,.......................
R. W. Staley
...W. J. Clarke ...W.W. Dodge
. .D. E. Maloney .. H. W. Walker Master J. Quan .....H. V.Hayes ....L. S. Hates
Sir Henry Harrington, (a Magistrate), 1 q, . n,Trr,-Serg’t Stanley, (Counsel for the Prosecution), f • a- dailey Graftston (Counsel for the Defense),........E. McSweeney
Clerk of the Court,............................B.	McGinnis
Sheriff,...........................................T.	Grier
Foreman of the Jury,...............•...........T.	P. White
Attendant to the Lord Chief J ustice, 1	w t u
Usher of the Court,	J.............   1	• ‘t5AI'L
Barristers, Jurymen, Policemen and Gamekeepers.
Epilogue,.............................‘.....Chas. A. Berdel
March for Retiring,
N. D. U. C. Band
Wednesday's programme.
The following is the programme of the Commencement Exercises, which began at 8 o’clock this morning:
Music—“Maudie Moore,”..................N. D. U. C. Band
Valedictory,...........................C. J. Dodge, of’74
Music,.......................................Orchestra
Conferring of Degrees in Classical and Scientific Courses.
Music,......................................Orchestra
Oration of the Day,....................Hon. S. S. Hayes
Music,......................................Orchestra
Awarding of Diplomas in Commercial Course.
Music, Medley, (Keller),...............N. D. U. C. Band
Awarding of Class Prizes. Awarding of Special Prizes.
Remarks,...............................Hon. A. C. Dodge
Music,......................................Orchestic a
Distribution of Premiums in Preparatory Classes. Awarding of Honors.
Closing Address,................Rt.	Rev. Bishop Gilmour
Music—“Home, Sweet Home,”..............N.	D. U. C. Band
THE PREMIUMS
The Faculty award each year about a ton of books to students for proficiency in studies and deportment of character. Among the many books thus distributed are
Bryant’s translation of the “Iliad,” “Men and Women of the English Reformation;” Chaucer, Tennyson, Longfellow, Dryden; Earl Derby’s “Iliad" Cardinal Wiseman’s “Sermons and Works,” Archbishop Spalding’s works. “Life of Christ” by De Ligny, Bryant’s “Library of Poetry and Song,” Bibles, various Catholic works, Cussack’s “Life of Daniel O’Connell,” illustrated; “Sketches of the Irish Bar,” by Sheil; Waverly Novels, Dickens’ Works, Modern British Essayists, etc.
The Hon. S. S. Hayes, Comptroller of the City of Chicago, delivered the address to the Graduating Class as follows:
Mr. President and Ladies and Gentlemen:
When I accepted the invitation to make some remarks on this occasion, I did not understand that I would be set down on the programme for an oration.
A composition so elaborate, so perfect in style and design, so rich with the graces of rhetoric as to be worthy to be called an oration, I have neither the leisure nor the ability to produce. Even if qualified to make the attempt, I should hesitate, in the presence of this assembly, these learned professors, and these young gentlemen fresh from the classics and familiar with the best models of ancient and modern times.
With your permission I shall only offer a few practical observations to that portion of my audience who, having spent some happy years amidst these pleasant scenes in the education of their faculties and the acquisition of knowledge, under the guidance of these eminent and skilful teachers, are about to enter upon a new phase of life, with which at present they are but little acquainted.
If I can aid them to start aright upon this voyage, to provide themselves with the means of self-preservation, io weather the storms which will beset them, and to follow a course which will lead them to true prosperity and happiness, I shall deem myself fortunate.
- The wise man who undertakes anything new, begins by a careful survey of the situation. He decides first that the object is right, and of sufficient importance ; second, thatit is capable of accomplishment by him. He examines himself, the obstacles in his way, and the means at his command. Having learned fully the requirements of the case, he proceeds with courage and industry until his exertions are rewarded with success. If perchance he has erred in his calculations, or, from any cause, is defeated, he bears his disappointment with patience and turns with the same courage and industry to the next duty or enterprise which may present itself before him.
This is the robust habit of mind which belongs to all who at. tain eminence in any of the walks of life or accomplish great results of any kind. It is a combination of foresight, courage, industry and patience. If you do not already possess it, you should never rest satisfied until you have attained it.
It is of equal importance to avoid in early, life entanglements of every kind. These may arise from unworthy companionships, bad associations, sensual and selfish indulgences, indolent or extravagant habits, and false views of our situation, of the ends of our existence and the proper objects of ambition.
Because we have found healthful amusement in athletic exercises it does not follow that our associates should be chosen from those who follow such exercises for a livelihood, or that we should seek them at the billiard saloon, the race-course, the base ball club, or the circus.
Evil communications, vulgar and indecent language, the vices of sensualism, and all acts prompted by the baser passions of our nature, will be shunned by every young man who respects himself or desires the respect of others. Better still for him if in addition he has erected for himself a high standard of excellence, if he has acquired a taste for the pure, the beautiful, and the good; if he has learned to love and practice virtue for its own sake.
I would also impress upon him the value of habits of self-control and self-denial, which indeed are included in the practice of virtue. If perfi ctly able to deny himself every gratification, every object of his wishes which his judgment or his conscience disapproves, he is master of himself, and prepared for that measure of success to which his other qualities may entitle him.
Let us suppose now that the young graduate is prepared to start in the world with a good education, a good reputation, and the qualifications and purposes 1 have just described. The first question which he has to meet, is the choice of a vocation. To solve this question proprly, he must begin with a just idea of the requirements of his situation in life, and of his obligations to those who have nurtured and educated him. •
It is often objected to the- Indiscriminate education of all classes that tastes and desires are created which are incompatible with the circumstances in which the majority are placed. I do not think-this effect is often produced in minds of a superior order. The grand brotherhood of genius and learning is a , true de mocracy. It is made up from all ranks and conditions.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
355
)
£ i>->
Its patents of nobility come from God, before "whom the beggar and. the king are equal. Its members care little for artificial distinctions, for' the trifles worshipped by the frivolous and weak. Their companionship is with great facts, and principles and ideas. To labor and to endure is their pleasure. A lower order of minds may obtain from a college course but a smatter ing of knowledge and a few external accomplishments, with a distaste for physical labor. With even these it is probable that in most cases experience and necessity prove efficient correctives.
However, it is true that much disappointment and unhappiness result from mistakes made in the choice of a vocation, arising mostly from the foolish notion that the educated man should not support himself by manual labor. If this notion should prevail, when education becomes universal, manual labor and production will cease, the means of subsistence will fail, and the earth become depopulated. Erroneous as it is, and kept in check by the common sense of the community, it has caused the professions and the lighter employments to be overcrowded, in defiance of the law of supply and demand, and to. the lasting sorrow of thousands of our promising youth, who might be profitably employed in the different trades and agriculture.	‘
I wish I could impress it on the minds of all our young men, that the capacity to perform manual labor is the first step towards independence. Frugality and industry are its attendants. Contentment and a competency are its reward.
_ Of all the different employments, agriculture is one of the most innocent, the most agreeable, the most remunerative, and the most dignified.
The honest and industrious young farmer knows the value of economy and simplicity of life. If he marries in his own class a sensible and industrious woman, his prospect of happiness and success is much better than it would have been had he studied a profession, or sought a clerkship, to wait the better pert of his life before he could realize any return. But the faimer should be careful that the demon of avarice doesnot posse-shim, and lead him to break down his own health and th: t of his family by overwork from excessive haste to get rich.
Th:s leads me to remark that our country suffers under two etils that have almost become national. One is extravagance, the other a craving for wealth.
It seems almost peculiar to the American character to be discontented with the present, to waste our substance in folly, and long wistfully for some lucky stroke to place us in possession of the means of further indulgence and ostentation. It is to be hoped that the sharp teachings of adversity will correct the faults of our disposition, and leave us to develop prudently and use wisely the abundant resources with which our land is favored.
Youth is the season of hope and enthusiasm. The future is painted in glowing colors. The imagination is filled with pictures of varied scenes of enjoyment or activity.
One sees before him all the pleasures of the senses.
Another, visions of wealth and power.
Another, the pomp and circumstance of war, the honors of the suceessul sqldier.
Another is surrounded in fancy by listening senates, triumphs in the forum, or from the hustings gathers the plaudits of admiring thousands, while displaying the talents and skill with which he believes himself endowed.
The voice of self-indulgence, of vanity, of ambition, is heard calling the eager youth, and urging him forward. But of all who enter life each year, full of hope and expectation, how few attain the object of their desires, and how many even of these are disappointed with the result.
What are the causes of this failure and disappointment ?
How can we guard against them 2	1
I imagine they are owing mainly to the fact that the plan of life has not been formed with sufficient care, or with a full understanding of the value of things and the requirements and possibilities of the situation.
Pleasure is not an object worthy of pursuit. It is only a gratification intended to lighten our cares, and refresh us after our labors. He who makes it his chief aim disgraces his manhood and insures his future misery.
Wealth, and power, and station, and popularity, and the applause of the many, are likewise low objects of desire, seldom attained, and unsatisfying to those who have them. ’
I would say to the young man, seek none of these things. What then can he do to insure his happiness 2 I answer, learn wisdom. Know yourself and the true value of things, and seek those objects that are within reach, and have a value sufficient to justify and reward their pursuit.
As to pleasure, the moderate exercise of our faculties is a source of real pleasure within the reach of all. Let us open our eyes and .ears and enjoy the beauties of nature. The green grass, the waving grain, the spreading trees, the sparkling waters, the singing birds, and the myriads of pleasing and sublime sights and sounds which nature presents for onr entertainment, are likewise within the reach of all, and are infinitely superior in all the elements of enjoyment to the glare and glitter and noise of artifical and costly pleasures.
Then, as to the pursuit of wealth and power, the ambition for ownership and command. I will here tell you something which perhaps will surprise you. It may seem to you a paradox. Nevertheless it is true. The more you have, of material things, the greater your power among men, the less complete is your ownership, and your independence. Humility is the lesson which experience teaches us. A few revolving seasons reduces the domain of the most wealthy to the narrow space covered by his coffin. And while in the plenitude of wealth and power, his enjoyment is imaginary, his labors and cares are real.
The most valuable of all possessions, each human being has, • that is his own soul. . That is a possession also capable of being infinitely expanded in value by its cultivation, or it may he married and ruined by neglect and abuse.
Let every young man enter upon life with the consciousness that he is the owner of that treasure, a treasure beyond all price, of which nothing but his own misconduct can deprive him, and to which but little if anything can be added by extraneous acquisitions. Let him strive to preserve and improve this treasure by exerting its best and noblest faculties, filling it with knowledge and wisdom, and preparing it for a destiny grand beyond conception, and endless as eternity.
Again, the rewards of gratified vanity, whether of the soldier or the public man, are transient, I may say momentary. The breath of the summer wind is not more fleeting than the breath of popular favor. If fame is the only reward of the soldier or statesman, he is most illy paid. If beyond this he has not the consciousness of duty done, of toil and sacrifice in defense of the right, in promoting the welfare of his fellow-men, his life has been a waste.
These public employments are to be filled by those who are called to them. They should be understood to be uncertain in their tenure, of little value in themselves, and most deceptive to those who are led to surrender their time and stake their hopes and happiness upon their attainment.
Office-seeking is not in itself, perhaps, degrading. It is possible that a person may be a professional office-seeker and yet be upright, correct in his habits, true to his word, faithful to his trusts. But it must be admitted that the temptations which attend this mode of life are strong and difficult to resist. The politician whose conscience is weak may enter upon his career with good intentions, but he is too apt to close it a social and moral wreck. What then is to become of these public employments, so necessaiy to the welfare of the state 2 Are they to be abandoned by the good men and left entirely to the bad 2 I trust not 1 Every neighborhood in the country is now suffering from bad legislation or bad administration. The tide of corruption has risen and spread over the land until its fetid waters have defiled even the mostholy places. Reformation and purification must be had, if there is any virtue left among the people. I have no doubt there is virtue enough among the people to accomplish these ends. It cannot be otherwise. I cannot believe that we have reached the stage of moral imbecility, the last stage in the existence of nations. So recent and bright a beginning cannot have an end so sudden and disastrous. The American republic, just risen like a sun in its glory, wanning with its effulgence the weary and theiworn, the oppressed and the suffering, of all lands, will not now vanish like a meteor and leave the pall of darkness over the hopes of mankind. s
The work of reform cannot be carried out without the action, of men of ability and integrity. Snch men will be found. They will take part in it, not for their own sakes, but for the sake of others.
But because we have started in life to make our living in a sensible way it does not follow that we are to abandon mental culture and the studies in which we have become proficient.
The human mind is wonderful in its’capacities, and there is no reason why the laborer, the farmer, the mechanic, the tradesman, as well as the professional man, should allow his faculties to become torpid, or should forego the enlargement of his understanding and the extension and proper classification of his knowledge.
What 1 contend for is not the abandonment of liberal studies, but the enfranchisement of the student by making him independent in his circumstances, by demolishing the idols of vanity and folly, to which a perverted public taste invites him to offer incense. I would teach him the first lessons of true wisdom, by teaching him that all the mere accessories oflife are of comparatively small value, least of all wealth and display; that the essential thing is the man himself, with his qualities and affections, surrounding himself by good associations in whatever sphere he may move, and unfolding into a being fitted to enter worthily into a higher and better existence, and that this man may enjoy all the most precious things without money, and without price; and may prove his manhood in the realms of.lit-erature and science, without regard to the amount of his means and pecuniary resources.
You leave college with the habit of study. Is it necessary to lose it and to leave all literary pursuits, because you have entered upon the labors oflife 2
He who will devote one hour every day to judicious, syste-
!
356
THE SCHOLASTIC.
matte study, and mental improvement, cannot fail in time to become wise and learned. In one hour the linguist can learn and master a number of the root words of the language he is studying, and obtain the definitions of many terms before unknown to him. In one hour the musician can master several of the relations of musical sounds—the painter and sculptor can obtain some new ideas of the relations of color, or form and distance. In one hour the mathematician can possess himself of one or more new and important theorems. In one hour the student of geography may learn the leading features of some important division of the earth, the student of history may get the key-stone fact of the development of one nation, or learn the cause of the downfall of another.
In fact there is scarcely a limit to the mental growth, learning and improvement which may be obtained by one hour’s judicious study each day. To secure this benefit, the student must avoid the piles of trash which litter the shelves of all libraries, and the ephemeral and demoralizing publications with which the press is teeming. Stick to your elementary works, your dictionaries, lexicons and encyclopedias, remembering at the same time that they are all imperfect. Let everything read be read for a purpose, and with close attention, and under the surveillance of a sound judgment—and remember that we do not profit so much by what we read as by what we digest.
Having thus started in life, free from complications and embarrassments, with no moonstruck or will-of-the-wisp ambition, under the guidance of good principles, good feelings, good intentions, and force of character to resist improper pressure and bear the suffering and disappointment incident to humanity, the young man can anticipate happiness and success, a useful and honorable career, alike whether he be laborer or capitalist, with only this difference, that the simpler and more humble bis avocation, the fewer the hindrances in the march of improvement, the more the majesty of the man will loom up above the surroundings, and the more probable that at some future day, whether in the present or in the after life, he will be installed high in the ranks of an aristocracy, not of birth or office, of wealth or of fashion, but of the just and true and wise of all races and of all times.
Gentlemen of the graduating class, you are now about to leave these halls of learning. Probably you will never again all meet here together. You will carry with you to your homes the best wishes of all connected with this excellent institution, for your health and welfare. I am sure you will endeavor, by your conduct, to prove. that you have availed yourselves fully of the great advantages you have enjoyed, and wherever you may be, will preserve for your alma mater feelings of gratitude, affection and friendship.
Degrees were Conferred, as Follows.
The names of those receiving Degrees, Diplomas, Certificates and Honors, have been placed without regard to any shade of difference that might exist between them, either in proficiency or worthiness, except that, through courtesy, the name of the successful competitor for the prize is first.
Doctor of Laws:
Hon. Augustus C. Dodge.
Master of Arts:
Dennis A. Clarke, John P. McHugh, Rufus H. McCarty.
Master of Science:
Thos. F. O’Mahony, Nathaniel S. Mitchell. John M. Gearin.
Bachelor of Arts:
Thos. P. White,	Wm. J. Clarke,
Charles J. Dodge, Louis S. Hayes,
Robert W. Staley.
Bachelor of Science:
Daniel E. Maloney, Charles A. Berdel,
Harold V. Hayes,	Wm. W. Dodge,
Thos. A. Dailey,	Henry W. Walker.
Bachelor of Laws:
William Ivers,	Edward McSweeney,
Patrick J. O’Meara.	Bernard J. McGinnis,
John J. Ney.
Medical Certificates :
James P. Van Dusen. Charles E. Freese.
Celestine Villeneuve.
COMMERCIAL DIPLOMAS.
Francis H. Buter,	James A. Brown,
William T. Ball, Thomas D. Flanigen, Edward Halpine, Patrick O’Sullivan, Frederick Hubert, Joseph Beegan, Charles J. Furer, John H. Gillespie, Alfred Horne, Louis J. Loser, Daniel T. McGinnis, Antoine M. Martineau, Chauncey M. Nichols, John E. O’Brien, Charles Ruger, Lee Sanders, Louis C. Watson, Jerome Mathews,
George W. Crummey, Jatin Falvey, John O’Connell', ' Francis Egan, Bonifacio J. Baca, John L. Burnside, William Gavitt, William C. Green, Adolphus L. Kreichgauer, John P. McDermott, John A. McMahon, Frank H Mathews, Richard T. O’Connor, Philip O’Mahony, James F. Rudge, John F. Soule, John F. Wolfe, Charles Smith.
CLASS PRIZE MEDALS.
Classical Course.
SENIOR CLASS.
The Quan Gold Medal awarded to Thomas P. White.
junior CLASS.
Medal awarded to Edward J. McLaughlin.
sophomore class.
Medal awarded to James Caren.
FRESHMAN CLASS.
Medal awarded to William P. Breen.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
SENIOR CLASS.
Medal awarded to Daniel E. Maloney.
junior class.
Medal awarded to Thomas J. Murphy.
sophomore class.
Medal awarded to Florian Devoto.
FRESHMAN CLASS.
Medal awarded to Philip O’Mahony.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
SENIOR CLASS.
Medal awarded to J. F. Rudge.
SPECIAL PRIZES.
TELEGRAPHY.
Plated Sounder—Gift of Geo. H. Bliss,— Awarded to Philip O’Mahony.
ELEMENTARY COURSE OF SCIENCE..
For the Best Synopsis of Lectures.
junior department.
Prize awarded to John G. Ewing.
MUSICAL DEPARTMENT.
PIANO.
Prize of excellence awarded to Carl Otto.
violin.
Prize of excellence awarded to Christian Burger.
vocal.
Prize of excellence awarded to Thomas McNamara.
CORNET BAND.
Prize of excellence awarded to Chas. E. Boman.
ELOCUTION.
Grand Gold Medal—donated by Rev. T. O’Sullivan, of Laporte, Ind.,—Awarded to Chas. J. Berdel.
CERTIFICATES IN TELEGRAPHY.
Philip O’Mahony,	Carl Otto,
John P. McDermott,	Frank H. Mathews.
It will be noticed that the names of Graduates in Arts, Sciences and Laws do not appear among the recipients of Honors, the Faculty deeming it expedient to omit these, as the degree conferred upon them is really the highest
।
THE SCHOLASTIC*

honor that the 'University can bestow, and this would be diminished to some extent by the bestowal of any other less valuable mark of the esteem in which they are held by the President and Faculty conferring the degree. • FIRST HONORS.
Senior Department. . new medals.
H. C. Cassidy,	P. J. Cooney,
E. G. Graves,	J. A. Brown,
G. W. Crummey,	P. O’Mahony,
J. F. Wolfe,	H. L. Dehner,
J. <1. Gillen.
RENEWED
E. S. Monahan,	A. J. Mooney,
C. Walter,	J. E. Hogan,
T. J. Murphy,	S. Marks.
Junior Department.
NEW MEDALS.
B. J. Baca,	J. G. Ewing,
J. C. Golsen,	C. Hake, -
F.	Miller,	N. J. Mooney.
Renewed.
W. P. Breen,	G. J. Gross,
W. S. Meyer, ‘ H. Quan.
Minim Department.
Gold Medal—Ralph J. Golsen.
‘ SECOND HONORS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
T. H. Grier,	E. J. McLaughlin,	C.M. Proctor,
J. P. Berry,	G. Cunnea,	J. B. Crummey,
J. Girard,	T. F. Gallagher,	A. Horne,
J. Kennedy,	M. Keeler,	T. B. McDonough,
M. McCullough,	J. E. O’Brien, L. C. Watson,	J. F. Rudge, J. Lonergan.
.	Junior Department.		
J. F. Beegan,	J. Buchanan,	J. Cullen,
J. Dally,	J. Delvecchio,	H. Faxon,
C. E. Freese,	S. Kennedy,	J. Kielty,
M. J. Kinsella,	B. LeFevre,	G. McNulty,
D. Gorman,	C. Myers,	J. F. Soule,
J. Smith,	L. Smith,	J. E. Wood,
R. Walker,	H. Zuber,	F. J. Wiesenburger,
A. Schmidt,	W. Darst,	F. Thalman, J. E. Marks.
Official Report of the June Examinations.
We give below the results of the Examinations just concluded. The figure after each name indicates the average per cent, obtained by the one whose name precedes it. This average per cent, is obtained by adding together the percents obtained in the different studies pursued by each student, and that result is divided by the number of studies pursued by him during the sessionfractions being ommitted in all cases.
Collegiate Department.
senior class.
C A Berdcl, written, 95; oral, 90; vote, 86; average, 90.
W. j‘ Clarke, “ 87; « 88; “ 84;	“	86
C. J. Dodge,	“	92; “ 77; “ 90;	“	89'
W. W.Dodge, “ 89; “ 88; “ 79;	“	85
T. A. Dailey,	“ 90; “ 93; “ 85;	“	90
L.S. Hayes,	“ 87; “ 84; “ 83;	“	85'.
H.V. Hayes, “ 90; “ 91; “ 88;	“	90
D.E. Maloney,	“ 96; “ 95; “ 93;	“	95.
R.W. Staley, “ 83; “ 80; “ 82;	“	82
H.W. Walker, “ 87; “ 80; “ 78;	“	82
T.P. White,	“ 94; “ 95; “ 93;	“	94
JUNIOR CLASS.
T. H. Grier 90 T. J. Murphy 94 E. J. McLaughlin 94
SOPHOMORE CLASS.
M. Bastarache 78 J. B. Crummey 83 J. Caren 86	.
F. Devoto 87	E. G. Graves 81 T. F. Gallagher 83
J E Hogan 70 E. S. Monahan 70 C. M. Proctor 66
°	C. Walter 81.
J. A. Brown 63
H. C. Cassidy 88
B. L. Ewans 74
E. McSweeney 93
freshman: cl as W. P. Breen 91 P. J. Cooney 73 J. J. Gillen 82
A.	J. Mooney 74 law class.
B.	McGinnis 94
G.	W. Crummey 43
H.L: Dehner 92
J.E. Kelly 75
P. O’Mahony 95
J. Ney 85 .
P. O’Meara 82. ,
COMMERCIAL DEPARTMENT.
(Where two numbers ate given, the first is for Commercial Studies and the second for studies in general.)
.	.	- SENIOR CLASS. . .	'
J. Abbot, 50^50; B. Baca, 88-79$ J. Burnside, 79-79; J. Beegan, 90-70; J. Berry, 76-76; J. Boyle, 54-54; J. Brennan, 71-71; L. Burridge, 75^75; L. Best,-81-81 ; -M. Burge, 69-69; J. Callery, 83; J. Christy, 78; G. Cunnea, 82; E. Dunne, 48;. C. Furer, 90; J. H. Gillespie, 90; W. Gavitt, 65; E. Gillen, 82; J. Grace, 76; W. Green, 88; G. Gross, 80; D. Hynds, 75; A. Home, 88; M. Keeler, 83; A. Kreichgauer, 83; C. Kreiter, 65; J. F. Kelly, 84; P. Lilly, 40; J. Lonergan, 67; L. Loser,.76; T. McGinnis, 80 ; J. McDermott, 85; M. McCullough, 85; J. McMahon, 79; A. Martineau, 76; H. F. Mathews, 70; J. L. Mullen, 76; J. Mathews, 71; G. McNulty, 68; P. Moran,'77; C. Myers, 62; W. Meyer, 35; C. Nichols, 80; .C. Otto, 65; J. O’Brien, 86^; R- O’Connor, 79; J. E. Porter, 73; J. Quin, 75; C. Ruger, 86; J. F. Rudge, 89; F. C. St. Aubin, 88; .C. Spears* 85; L. Sanders, 87; H. Scrafford, 81; T. Solon, 85; J. Soule, 88; L. C. Watson, 83; C. Welty, 75; 3. E. Wood, 87; J. F. Wolfe, 85.	•
JUNIOR class.	’
M. Allen, 59; C. Boman, 76 ,• A. Baca, 72; G. Burbridge, 53; J. Burnham, 57; L. Busch, 57; A. Chapoton, 57; T. Cash in, 80; T. Culliton, 65; O. Corcoran, M. Caldwell* 77; A. Crunkilton, 74; F. Frazee, 50; J. Flaherty, 81; E. Grambling, 41; J. Girard, 82; D. Gorman,-61; J. Hedges, 56; R. Hutchings, 55; C.Hess, 62; L.Hatch,42; E.Kimm 69; J. Lyons, 61; T. Logan, 67; S. Marks, 64; P. McDonald, 56; E. McCunniff,72; T. Monahan, 67; F. Miller, 51; M.McCormac, 67; J. Ott, 64; F. O’Brien, 68; C.J. O’Connor, 59; J. Perea, 50; J. Rofinot, 71; G. Rudge, 82; Jas. Rudge, 68; S. Studebaker, 66; H. Skahil, 87 ^F. Sweger,75; A. Schmidt, 67; T. Sauvageot, 60; F. Thalmann, 56; F. Weisenberger, 62.	'	-
MEDICAL CLASS.
G. Crummey, ; C. Freese, 93; J. Van Dusen, 55; C. Villaneauve, 93.
PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT.
SENIORS.
J. W. Andre, 46; W. T. Ball, ; V.- Baca, 72; T. Cochrane, 52; J. Egan, ; M. Foley, 78; C. Favey, 56; W. Henry, ; J. Handely, 57; M. Jeffreys, 81; J. Kennedy. 60; J. Luby, 00; L. D. Murphy, 38; F. Moras, 60; T. B. -McDonough, 69; W. McClure, 77; T. O’Mahony, 64; 3. O’Connor, 57; L. Proudhomme, 65; C. Reynolds, 60; O. Tong, 47.
■	• JUNIORS.	‘	.
C. Burger, 58’; C. Bumham, 48; M. Burke, ; J.'Buchanan, 74; J. Borie, 50; T. Bosse, 43; W. Brewer, 41; J. M. Crummey, 56;. C. Campeau, 67;. J. Cullen, 71; -W. Chapoton, 63; J. Campbell, 54; F. Claffey, 59; J. Cohen* 75; T. Chatterton, ;' J. Dale, 50; J. Delvecchio, 68; T. N. Dryfoos, 58; N. S. Dryfoos, 53; P. Daly, ; J. Daly, 52; W. Darst, 70; J. Doyle, 68; R. Downey, 70; J. Dally. 36; J. Ewing, 82; F. Ewing, 67; H. Faxon, 71$ G. Frau-enknecht, 55; 3. French, 75; P. Fitzpatrick, 50; F. Farrell, 75; B. Green, 53;.D. Green, 71; J. Golson, 53; F. Goldsberry, 48; J. Garrity, ; T. Gallagher, 68; O. Gove* 69; F. Hoffmann, 50; H.-Hoerber, 80; T. Hunt, 66; C. Hake, 67; J. Hayes, 74; M. Hayes,- 59;-.M. Kinsella, 70, sick; A. Koch, 40; J. Keilty, 67; S, Kennedy, 50; A. Kramer, 75; P. Kelly, 58; W. Lawless, 68; J. Lynch, 69; J. Lambin, 64; B. Le Fevre, 63; C.-Lewis, 56; N. J. Mooney, 76; J. Mclntre, 66; P. McBride, 56; A. Mitchell* 41; J. Marks, 74; T. McNamara, 63; J. Minton, 67; J. McHugh, 78; G. Nestor, 54; D. Nelson, 50: R. Norris, 63; D. O’Connell, 83; D. O’Donnell, 62; E. O’Connor, 70;
358
THE SCHOLASTIC.
W. Ohlen, Jas. O’Connor, 73; C. O’Connor. 83; J. O’Hara, 56; F. Peril, 51; C. Peltier, 46; H. Quan, 48 ; J. Beede, 50; E-Batigan, 74; J. Rider, 56; W. Robinson, 55; F. Stamm, 53; E. J. Sugg, 68; J. Sugg, 47; C. Stacker, 58; P. Schnurrer, 79; W. Schultheis, 72; L. Smith, 50; J. Smith. 55; H. Schilt, 72; I. Schermerhorn, 55; F. Smith. 57; R. Sobey, 30; F. Stoppenback, ; A. Thomas, 53; N. Vannamee, 73; F. Wittlesberger, 59; R. Walker, 64; C. Walsh, 70; R. West, 54; E. Washburn, 67; H. Zuber, 73.
Nineteenth. Annual Commencement of St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
On the morning of the 24th inst. the Academy was crowded with visitors. The presence of the Right Rev. Bishops of Detroit and Cleveland, and many Rev. gentlemen and other distinguished personages, was a proof of the deep and general interest taken in an Institution that has the privilege of helping to mould the character of the daughters of the very best families in our favored land.
At 11 o’clock a. m. St. Cecilia’s Hall was literally crowded with a highly interested and appreciative audience. The following programme was faithfully carried out:
Grand Extrance.
Kinser March, ...	- By Richard Wagner
Harps, -	- Misses J. Walker and M. Wicker.
Pianos, -	* Misses Black, McEwen, Spier,
Minton, Foote, Quan, Smith, and Roberts.
Distribution of Premiums in Junior Department
Chorus from “ Semiramide,” -	- Vocal Class
Distribution of Premiums in the Intermediate Department.
Vocal Duett,—Quis est homo,	-	'Rossini
Misses West and Foote.—Accompanied by Miss Walker.
Distribution of Premiums in Senior Department.
“ArO JUNIORS TO BE HEARD TO-DAY”!!—Original.
Grand Canto and Chorus—“ Inflammatus,” from Rossini’s “ Stabat Mater ”
Soloists, -	Misses Foote and West
Chorus—Misses Miller, Black, Haggerty, O’Connor, Quan, Riopelle, J. and AL Kearney, Locke, Dougherty, Minton, Riley. Canoll. Roberts, Keeline, Stimson, Pfeiffer, Garreis, Huber, Cummings, Arnold, Gross, M. Ives, S. and A. Sweeney, Neteler, Klotz, Smith, Jackson, M. Johnson, Brown, Obr, Peak.
Accompanied by Miss Walker.
ANIMA.
AN ORIGINAL DRAMA IN TWO ACTS.
Prologue -	.	. -	-	.	. Miss Gross
ACT I—Scene I.
Anima, ----- Miss A. M. Clarke Innocence, ------ MissNiel Scientia, ------ Miss Bradford Pride, .	.	_	-—	Miss Langdon
Scene H.
Palatio, ------ Miss Arnold
Visiona, _	. -	-	-	-	- - Miss Faxon
Auditia, -	-	-	-	-	- Miss Quan
Sentltia, -	-	-	.	.	. Miss Harris
Odora, ------ Miss J. Kearney
Song—“Polonaise from Mignon,”	-	- A. Thomas
Miss West.—Accompanied by Miss Walker.
ACT H.
Humility,............................Miss Wyman
Despair, ------ Miss Ritchie Revenge, ----- Miss Haggerty Faith, -	-	-	- -	. Miss McEwen
Hope.	miss Barry
Chanty,..............................Miss V. Ball
“Concert Stuck,” Opus79,	-	- C. M. Von Weber
Two Pianos—Misses Walker and Black.
Conferring Graduating Medals in Academic Department and Conservatory of Music.
Distribution of Crowns and Honors in Junior, Intermediate and Senior Departments.
Coronation Ode, Double Chorus, (Two Pianos)—By A. BoUmar
Graduates’ Chorus, - Accompanied by Miss Spier. Vocal Class, - Accompanied by Miss McEwen.
Valedictory, ...	- Miss A. M. Clarke
Closing Remarks, -	-	- Rt. Rev. Bishop Borgess
Retiring March, from “Athalie,” --- Mendelssohn
Harps, - Misses E. O’Connor and M. Walker Pianos, - Misses Letourneau, St. Clair, E. Ives, K. Hutchinson, Dennehey, Kengle, Resch and Barry.
During the Grand Entrance March the pupils entered from each side of the stage and, gracefully saluting the audience, seated themselves on a semi-circular, elevated row of seats, fronting the audience. The tableau thus formed was certainly charming, for the pupils were all arrayed in pure white, set off with blue or pink sashes, —the blue being the Summer uniform and the pink the Winter,—and still more beautifully setoff with the charms of youthful grace and modesty,—all looked interesting, from the chubby little Minims of eight years old to the thoughtful Graduates of nineteen.
As the musical criticism will be given in detail, it is unnecessary to dwell here on the merits of each song or instrumental piece. At the proper time the irrepressible Juniors, who had been forbidden to speak lest they should detain the audience too long, presented themselves in full force, and with many expressive jesticulations, expressed their emotions to the sympathizing audience. This mute drama, composed particularly for the occasion, was a fine sample of silent eloquence.
After a prologue, well read by Miss N. A. Gross, of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, the beautiful, original, allegorical drama of “ Anima ” was performed by the young ladies named on the programme. This drama is intended to illustrate the experience of the human soul, which, full of mysterious longings and opposite attractions, on finding itself deluded by Pride and the Senses, turns in her distress to God, who sends her Faith, Hope and Charity for guides, with Scientia and Humility for companions.
Miss Annie M. Clarke, as “ Anima,” was the interesting centre around which the other figures gracefully grouped. Miss N. Langdon, as Pride, and Miss Haggerty, as Revenge, acted their parts well,—for certainly such characters were entirely foreign to the gentle nature of the young dramatists. Miss Lizzie Ritchie, as Despair, was not perfect in her part, from the fact that she only stood as a substitute for her sister, Miss Lettie Ritchie, whom sudden illness prevented from taking the character assigned her.
The graceful Senses certainly did their parts admirably well. Scientia, Faith, Humility and Charity, were well rendered; in fine, the whole affair was highly creditable to the young ladies who personated the characters.
The Premiums, Honors, and Graduating Medals were conferred by Rt. Rev. Bishops Borgess and Gilmour. The Graduates also received premiums for Domestic Economy.
The following are the names of those who graduated in the regular Course.; Miss Annie M. Clarke, of Chicago, Illinois; Miss Nellie Langdon, of Joliet, Illinois; Miss Rose Devoto, of Cairo, Illinois; Miss Nellie A. Gross, of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Mi«s Lilly West, of Chicago, Illinois; Miss Libbie Black, of Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Miss R. Spier, of Peoria, Illinois; Miss Lizzie Niel, of St. Louis, Missouri; and Miss M. Brown, of St Albans, Vermont.
In the Conservatory of Music, Me/als were awarded, in Instrumental Music, to Miss Julia Walker, of Helena, Montana Territory, and Miss Elizabeth Black, of Milwaukee, Wisconsin; and in Vocal Music, to Miss Lilly West, of Chicago, Illinois.
When all the Crowns and Honors for Amiability, Politeness, Neatness, Order, and faithful observance of academic rules had been given to over one hundred and twenty of the pupils, they stood in semicircular ranks while the “ Coronation Ode ’’ was sung. This was certainly a beautiful sight, and must have given inexpressible joy to those who were thus honored, and also to their dear parents and friends.
. The Valedictory was then read by Miss Anna M. Clarke, with simple grace and earnest expression. The sentiments were well expressed, and reflect credit to the hearts and minds of the young ladies who gave such a grateful, affec-

THE SCHOLASTIC.
95&
- tionate valedictory to those with whom they have stood for many years in such intimate and fonder relations. The allusion to the absence of Very Rev. Father General was Very touching and graceful. •
The closing remarks, by the Rt. Rev. Bishop of Detroit, were replete with wisdom and good counsel, given in eloquent words.
The Retiring March gave the signal for the young ladies to retire, in the same order as they had entered. The audience then adjourned to the dining-hall, where a plentiful repast was served to all present, numbering five hundred persons. The young ladies of the Graduating Class had the pleasure and honor of dining with their parents and the Rt. Rev. Bishops and Rev. clergy.
All was joy and congratulation, till the hour of parting gave occasion for expressions of regret at separating from loved mothers, teachers, and scenes rendered dear by years of pleasant and profitable association.
The number of pupils in the Academic Course was 266, of whom 195 were also in the Conservatory of Music, and in the School of Design 45 pupils followed the course.
THE MUSIC.
Mendelssohn’s “ Cappriccio Brilliante,” was rendered by Miss Nellie McEwen, of Chicago, appreciatively; we noticed particularly she made no false use of the pedal; every note clear and distinct, her arpeggios and runs showed a persevering practice. "We hope, if she continues well-doing, on some future occasion to see her decorated with the Medal of St. Mary’s Conservatory.
A beautiful arrangement of Lueia di Lammarmoor, by Rodolphe Wilmers, was creditably played by Miss Rose Spier, of Peoria. Illinois.
Miss Elizabeth Black, of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, played Chopin’s grand Polonaise in A Elat Major, a composition which few young ladies attempt, on account of the immense strength required throughout. The crescendo passage in octaves, for the left hand, tour pages in length, proved her precision and power, making the hall ring, while the mazy lightness, irregular rylhm and accent of the other parts, tested well her capability.
Miss Julia Walker, of Helena, Montana Territory, finished the afternoon’s entertainment with one of Franz Liszt’s grand “ Rapsodies flongroises.” The touch of this young lady is remarkable for puritj’ and elegance of manner, showing effectively the intricate runs and difficult passages with which the whole “ Rapsodie ” is replete. Her rendition is full of intellect and soulful expression, acquired by (we should judge) a careful study of classical music. Graceful, ladylike ana quiet, Miss Walker possesses, real command over tone, and unerring certainty of execution.
Wednesday Morning.
The “ Kaiser March,” by Richard Wagner, played on four pianos and two harps, was simbly grand, the time perfect, and sympathetic expression wonderful. We understand this is the first time this March (or rather great poem) has been played in public, outside of the Thomas Orchestra, and we congratulate the young ladies, whose names we give, on their successful rendering of Wagnerian difficulties Harps—Miss Julia Walker and Miss Mary Wicker. Pianos—Misses E'izabeth Black, N. McEwen, R. Spier, A. Minton, N. Foote, M. Quan, A. Smith and Ada Roberts.
Carl Maria Von Weber’s “Concert Stuck,” Opus 79, was executed on two pianos, by the young ladies who, a few moments after, received the Graduating Gold Medals for Instumental Music: Miss Julia Walker, Helena. Montana'Territory, and Miss Elizabeth Black, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Weber’s excellent composition is too well known as the cJievdl de batailk of concert players for us to speak of the work itself. But the interpretation tested the skill of the young performers; the promptness, vigor and energy with which'the tones were attacked in the most trying fortissimo passages—the delicate aplomt of the slow movements, are worthy of the highest praise.	_
The Retiring March from “Athalie,” by Mendelssohn, closed our musical treat for this year; played in perfect time, mostly by pupils of the third music class, and whose present skill promises well for the future: Harps—Miss E. O’Connor and Miss Maggie Walker. Pianos—Misses M. Letourneau, A. St. Clair, E. Ives, K. Hutchinson, M. Resch, M. Barry, E. Dennehey and M. Kengel.
The Vocal Music.
The first piece of vocal music on the programme was a Cavatina, by Centemeri, and was certainly a fine opening for the . Vocal Department. On account of severe hoarseness, Miss Miller, of Chicago, Illinois, who had carefully prepared this not at all easy piece, was unable to sing, and Miss L. West kindly volunteered to replace her, and though the time was too short
to allow much practice, she did herself and the piece foil justice
The Vocal Quartette, arranged from Strauss’ celebrated Danhbe Waltzes, was sung by Misses Quan, Miller, Black and Haggerty. This air, so popular, could not help but please; the deep low tones of the young lady who carried the contralto part are very rarely heard in the female voice; as we followed, her through the chorus we could but hope that she would appreciate and by careful study cultivate this rare gift.
The song from “Il Trovatore,” was most exquisitely sung by Miss O’Connor, of Chicago, Illinois. Her voice is sweet and charming. The burst of applause she received from the audience was well merited.
The celebrated Rondo Song from Rossini’s “ Cenerentoia,” was beautifully sung by Miss N. Foote, of Burlington, Iowa. On account of slight indisposition a few days previous, this young lady could not give out the full strength of her voice^ but every note of the long difficult runs was distinctly struck. On some future exhibition day we will expect to hear great things, both as regards strength, execution and taste, from this young lady.
Last, but not at all least, on this day’s programme, was Mendelssohn’s grand Chorus “ As the Hart Pants.” This composition is too well known by lovers of classic music to need any comments. The entire Vocal Class showed high appreciation of the careful training they had received during the year, by their precision in time, clearness in pronunciation and careful attention to crescendos and diminuendos. It was accompanied' on the piano by Miss McEwen, in a most perfect manner.
SECOND DAY.
The first piece on this second day’s programme, a double Chopras from “ Semiramide,” was a perfect success; the pianissimo which gradually crescendoed until the full strength of the voices filled the hall, was chamringly done, and the ease through the entire piece showed it was a light composition for the singers.
A Vocal Duett, “ Quis est homo,” from Rossini’s celebrated Slabat JUater, sung by Misses West and Foote, is a composition rarely attempted except by our great singers, and yet these young ladies acquitted themselves in a very creditable manner.
The grand ‘Canto and Chorus, “ Inflammatus,” by Rossini, sung by the entire Vocal Class—the Canto taken alternately by Misses Foote and West—cannot be too highly spoken of; rarely do we find a class of school-girls prepared to attempt so difficult a composition, and yet they need not blush to appear before any critic. The soft mellowed tones of the Chorus, touching each note, giving to each rest its true value, was a beautiful accompaniment to the clear trilling of the Canto, and all skilfully accompanied at the piano by Miss Walker, in a manner proving her artistic culture.
The song of the day was the Polonaise from “Mignon,” and was beautifully sung by M.ss L. West, of Chicago Ill. This young lady has stood head of the Vocal Department for three years, and' shows careful, studious practice; her voice is exceedingly flexible and of extensive range, a real soprano, sweet and pure on the highest notes. The “ voulards” and trills were exquisitely rendered, and the whole manner of this difficult selection shows the gold medal well deserved. We congratulate Miss West.
The Coronation Ode, a double chorus, given by the Graduates and Vocal Class, was the grand finale, very pleasingly done. As a whole, the musical programme was far beyond anything we had expected or even hoped for from a class of young amateurs.
Many items of interest have been crowded out.
There will be no extra number of the Scholastic this vacation until after the 15th of August.	- •
The congregation of St. Patrick’s Church, South Bend, are celebrating the 4th of July by a grand picnic.
A beautiful miniature representation of the famous rains of the Rock of Cashel, as they appear at the present day, carved out of wood, has been presented to the St. Cecilia* Association by Mr. Thos. Cashin, of Ireland. Particulars hereafter.	.
We have been compelled by want of space to leave out notices of new publications and periodicals in this number.' They will receive due mention in the next number.
A Vote of Thanks,
The members of the St. Gregory Society return their sincere thanks to Bro. Leopold for the many kind services rendered them during the year; and to Prof. Edwards for kind services rendered them on the day of their last recreation.	J. P. McHugh, Sec'y.
560
THE SCHOLASTIC. ’
The SuhulastiiL
Published every Week during Tenn Time at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should, be sent to Editor Scholastic Hotre Dame. Indiana.
TEBM8:
One year....................................$1 00
Single copies (5cts.) of the publication can be obtained at the Stu dents’. Office.
Society Day.
On Saturday June 20th, initiatory to the Thirtieth Annual Commencement, the various Societies of the University hade farewell to us and to the year that has gone.
The different Societies were represented; and, as announced by a neat little programme, the following bill of lare (literary) was presented:	\
Music,............................  .....N.	D. U. C.Band
Address from the Archconfraternity,...... T. J. Murphy Address from the St. Aloysius Philodemic As-
sociation,.........................  E.	McSweeney
Music,.........................< .University Orchestra
Address from the Thespian Association, E. J. McLaughlin Declamation from the Philopatrian Society.....R. Downey Music—Piano,.....................................0. Otto
Address from the Scientific Association,............M. Keeley Address from the Holy Angels’ Sodality,.........J. Ewing
Music—Piano, ...................................  C.Otto
Address from the Columbian Literary Club,...... J. F. Kelly Address from the St. Cecilia Philomathean Associa-
tion.................................  W.	P. Breen
Music,.................................... -..Orchestra
Remarks,........;...............  .....Rev.	M. B. Brown
Music,.............................      N.	D. U. C. Band
The address from the Archconfraternity, by Mr. Murphy, was a well-written and well-read exercise. Mr. Murphy has a good voice, takes an easy position on the stage, and reads in an earnest, expressive way that attracts his audience at once. After dwelling for some length of time on the origin and progress of the society, he reviewed the ever-old yet new subject, Catholic Education. “Educate the head— let the heart educate itself,” is the motto of the great public system. Mr. Murphy went on to say “that nothing could more aptly represent the educated man accord ing to the principle just enunciated than a beautiful statue fresh from the hands of a master. There it stands, a faithful copy of the original: the features, the type, the expression are there engraven on the marble, and you almost fancy it can speak; but no 1 the vital spark, the electro-movcr, as it were, of Divine creation, which must be infused into it, is wanting.” He then illustrated the old maxim, 'Gorruptio optimi pessima; and closed by picturing the ultimate triumph of just and upright principles.
Mr. McSweeney, representing the Philodemic Society, was eloquent from first to last. He spoke of the glorious record of the past; and also of the future, in which the faces of the dear old college boys shall appear before our minds, and we can fancy they are with us once more. He said “the world is just opening to many of us, and we must go forth to busy scenes, and combat for right and for eternity; we have lingered here, almost afraid to enter where we have but glanced, girdipg on our armor; and we shall not
fail; but if we should be unsuccessful, as the world measures success, yet the consciousness of the rectitude of all our acts will assert’itself and answer no, we have not failed.”
Mr. McLaughlin, representing the Thespian Association, won the most hearty applause of the day. His easy, dig-, nified appearance upon the stage--his clear, flexible voice—-but more than all, his vigorous, closely-written exercise, gave him the perfect control of the audience. He spoke something like this: “ Almost imperceptibly have we been gliding down the vast stream of time, and it is with wonder we wake to find another year, with its joys and sorrows, its toil and labor, has flitted by since last.we were assembled here for this same purpose. And it is with pleasure, mingled at the same time with a shade of sadness, that I take my place as representative of one of the many societies of which Notre Dame may well be proud ; with joy, because I may congratulate you upon your success; with pain, because the thought will intrude that in a few days you, my fellow-students, who are now bound together in a common brotherhood, will be scattered abroad, never perhaps to meet again.” He said the Societies of ’74 have formed a model which may well be imitated by the Societies of future years; and that as regards the Thespian Society, with such a man as our dearly beloved and much respected Director, Rev. Fr. Lemonnier, [applause], and with our hard-working, zealousPresident, Prof. Lyons [applause], it is needless to say there could be no such word in our vocabulary as fail.”
We would like to give his address entire, but space forbids, and we can only say that after treating his subject, “ The Origin and Rise of the Drama/’ in an able manner, and striking a hard blow at those who claim “ they take up too much valuable time,” and then spend half a day reading some trashy novel, his appeal to the society was touching, and closed thus: Let us ever remember that simple motto of our dear Society, “Act.well your part;” and as we glide down the stream of life, until time with his chastening hand shall have dimmed the eye and silvered the hair, we can look calmly back on the past aud ever cherish a green oasis in our mem iry for our brothers and companions, the Taespia is of ’74.
The St. Stanislaus Society was well represented by Mr. Downey, who declaimed in good style. The subject of his selection was “The American Flag.” Mr. Downey has a good voice, and is very easy on the stage.
The music by Mr. Otto was good. He is really a good player and has mistered the piano to an extent that is rarely found in one so young.
Mr. Keeley informed us that twice twelve months had passed away ■since his voice was heard in that hall in the role of a youthful rhetorician. His theme was Philosophy, and he became eloquent in contemplating the idea of God, and soared aloft beyond the comprehension of the majority of his audience before he reached the climax. He asked the question: How largely does the Divine Idea enter into modern systems of thought? And if we find the progress of ideas (as he showed) is but a hideous idol, then in God’s name let it be cast down, though it be crowned with the most glittering jewels of the brightest diadem. Mr. Keeley is a nervous, electrical speaker, and when he left the stage the audience felt that he could have said much more on the same topic.
Mr. John Ewing then read a very sensible little address
t
THE SCHOLASTIC.
- 3M
from the Holy Angels’ Sodality. Mr. Ewing takes a good, position on the stage, and reads well. At the conclusion of his address he left the stage gracefully.
Mr. J. F. Kelly then presented the address from the Columbian L. and D, Club. The theme was: The true idea of Conviviality. Mr. Kelly thought the name club more appropriate than society, and gave that as the reason why it was retained. He thought the Americans were far behind their neighbors abroad, so far as enjoying life was concerned. Mr. Kelly’s address was well written, although somewhat loosely conuected.
The theme of Mr. Breen’s address was “Progress.” His Essay began with Adam and Eve, took a wide range, and after describing the youthful attempts, thoughts, and aspirations of the school-boy, it carried him on through the whole range of student life, and culminated when the young man was happy practicing some honorable profession—eulogized the progress of the true religion, and concluded with urging his society to progress in the future as they had done in the past.
Father Brown gave the closing remarks, in his pleasing, happy manner. He said the last speaker struck the theme that was in his mind at the moment—the progress which the Societies themselves had made, and also the University, in arranging this annual anniversary. He expressed himself highly pleased with the entertainment, and the audience adjourned to await the many good things which the coming week had in store for them.
Soiree.
Sunday evening we had the pleasure of being present at another of those musical treats at which the talent of Notre Dame shone forth in all its resplendent magnificence, and which did honor not only to the young gentlemen themselves, but also to their worthy teachers.
Before all things were in readiness we had time to glance at the company assembled, among whom was our distinguished visitors and orator, Hon. A. C. Dodge, of Burlington, Iowa; N. S. Mitchell and lady, of Davenport, Iowa; the Misses Riopelle,of Detroit; Miss Agnes Boyne, of South Bend, together with many others whose names we have been unable to ascert.-.in. According to the programme, Mr. Freese was first destined to hold us spellbound by the melodious harmony of the musical sounds from his violin, softly and sweetly vibrating upon our auditory organs; and our sense of sight was none the less pleased, for he managed the bow with the graceful dexterity peculiar to an accomplished musician. Mr. Otto is already'well-known as one of our most accomplished pianists, so there is no need that any eulogjr should come from me; it is sufficient to say that on the present occasion he fully maintained the high position heretofore accorded him as an amateur musician of considerable talent and proficiency. Mr. Burger, on the violin, accompanied by Mr. Otto, on the piam, next exhibited his skill in shifbing, trills and rapid movement. Mr. Burger is known to be one of our best violinists, and one who on almost all occa-ions treats us to something classical, or rather something after the most approved fashion of the present day. If I were disposed to criticize I would say that the bow sometimes acettied on more strings than was absolutly necessary. Yet his was decidedly the most difficult piece of the evening. Messrs. Kimm and Brennan alsi proved that they were well worthy of the high position they hold among the musical students of Notre Dame, while Messrs. Gillen and Ball, though not long following the musical art, show talent, and if they continue may at some time stand on the top round of the ladder.	.
The piece of all pieces, and decidedly the attraction and pleasure of the evening, was given by Miss Maggie Riopelle; being requested by Rev. Father Lemonnier, she moved to the piano with that ease and grace which is a distinguishing mark of those who have been accustomed to mingle in society. And if we were prepossessed by her gracefulness, our admiration was unbounded when she touched the keys with fairy-like fingers, forcibly portraying the sentiment of the piece by her artistic management of the pedals and rapid movement.
This happy evening was closed by-Rev. Father Brown,
who complimented the musicians on their success,thank-ing them for the pleasure they had afforded the assembled guests,—"the latter, we feel assured, cordially agreeing with the Rev. gentleman’s thankful compliments to their entertainers.	Kokx Ompax.
Tuesday Night and. ths Thespians.
While old Father Time is preparing to place the second day of vacation in his calendar of time that was, we must make its final moments bear away on their fleet wings a hasty record of the most interesting entertainment of the many charming ones in the history of Commencement Week.	;
When we term it the beautiful picture the gilded frame-1 work of which was the oratorical flashes of the graduating Class on Monday afternoon and the brilliant displays of Wednesday morning, our readers will see at once that visions of Tuesday night’s creation are flitting before us, causing our pencil to glide along under their magic influence.
If those who peruse the impartial criticism we are about to offer, experience in so doing even one iota of the pros-.-pective pleasure waiting on the pleasant hour we meditate passing with the Thespians, we are satisfied that the fruits to be plucked during this brief intercourse will be sweet and enjoyable to more than ourself.
’Twas the 24th of Febuary, 1874; the inmates of Notre Dame were anticipating one of the most excellent dramatic performances ever before presented in Washington Hall. The impressionable minds of the students were all excitement, fanned by the breath of that enthusiastic activity always manifest among the Thf spians when they are determined to challenge the admiration of their friends and patrons. The unqualified praise their efforts elicited on the occasion we mention, and the magnificent reputation it gave them at home and abroad, were among the brightest leaves in their chaplet of well-merited honors.
“waiting for the verdict.”
Unanimously requested to present this play a second time before the close of the year, the Thespians reproduced it on last Tuesday night before a delighted audience, and with more heightened effect and greater success than on its first presentation. “Waiting for the Verdict, or Falsely Accused,” is indubitably grand in conception, and finished in execution. It is the product of a mind eminently tuned to many of the discordant notes and jarring elements of human nature. The author deserves being enrolled in the highest rank among painters of human passion and human sympathy, who skim not lightly and superficially over the waves of human character, but exhibit the movements of the heart and phases of the mind in a strong, striking, and natural light. We have read and re-read the play, and while engaged in the pleasing task the remark of Horace often inclined us to pause and ponder on the remarkably well balanced judgment of the noble Roman. Horace says, and truly too, that it requires -an exalted genius, and a very clever perception of the harmony of elements one with another, as well as an unerring^ insight into the lightest, deepest and intermediate shades -of our nature, for a writer to be capable of selecting for a work purely imaginative such real existences as unite interest with truth, and so begemmed with the tints and tinges of romance as to render their reality attractive; and the5 play on which we now comment bears the impress of these requirements in no questionable degree.
“ Waiting for the Verdict ” is nature’s own bom offspring. There is nothing unnatural or incongruous about or in it. Every page mirrors an acquaintance whom we meet every day in person or in the halls of memory. What the author describes and delineates we feel in a measure in our own breasts, and have seen with our own eyes, have heard with our own ears. There is no elaborate absurdity, no exaggerated caricature, no unnatural situations which form the staple material and give currency to so many of our demoralizing dramatic productions; but instead of these vicious characteristics we find the author a true interpreter of the philosophy of human nature, and the exponent of great and ennobling morality.
- The character of Jonathan Roseblade is a noble impel-
362
THE SCHOLASTIC.
sonation of real grandeur of soul and true exaltedness of heart; while the touching tenderness of affection and detestation of wrong-doing, such as a generous spirit ever manifests, is found in the person of Jasper Roseblade, the victim of so many cruel deceits, and the final victor over so many would-be ruinous plots. But we must hasten on from our imperfect analysis of the play itself to a few remarks on the manner in which it was rendered Tuesday night.
The Hall was filled to repletion with a fashionable audience of ladies and gentlemen, and who encouraged the Thespians by their approving smiles and rapturous applause. We cannot stop to remark on the stirring rendition of musical selections from the “ Bohemian Girl ” by the N. D. U. C. Band, with which the exercises of the night were introduced; the superior playing of the Band has time and again received its meed of praise, nor would th i hurried daub of an unskilled artist enhance the lustre of the musical reputation of our amateur performers. The Orchestra followed with a succession of soft, sweet, harmonious strains, breathing inspiration upon every heart, and calling up a beautiful stanza which we learned away off in the era of life’s young boyhood, and running thus:
“ Music!—oh I how faint, how weak, Language fades before thy spell! Why should feeling ever speak,	'
When thou canst breathe her soul so well ? Friendship’s balmy words may feign, Love’s are ev’n more lalse than they ;
Oh ! ’tis only music’s strain, Can sweetly soothe, and not betray.”
We have frequently felt the ruffled spirit calmed and the troubled heart lulled to rest under the magic influence of melody; and the highest eulogy we can pronounce on the playing of the Orchestra is that it was capable of dispelling brooding cares from the mind and filling up the void with sensations of mixed pleasure and undisturbed tranquillity.
The Prologue has been delivered by Mr. E McSweeney ; the solemn husband the attitudes of anxiousexpectancy observable throughout the seven or eight hundred auditors, bespeak a longing for the lifting of the curtain and the commencing of the play.
While the audience is admiiing the various actors, whom, if we did not know them as college boys, we would certainly be betrayed into believing the actual personages they represented, we will strive, without any prepossession in favor of one more than another, to deal out with impartial hand the measure of merit in our opinion due to each performer. Messrs. C. A. BerdeJ, E. J. McLaughlin, and C. J. Dodge were unquestionably the star actors of the occasion. We have named them in the order which the general verdict has assigned them, though in some few respects the palm of superiority, if granted to one on the strength of these special instances, and irrespective of the general playing, would work an injustice to the other two.
Mr. Berdel’s conception of the part he assumed, and the cqualness with which he assimilated himself to the evervarying transformations of the character he represented, exhibited a cultivated judgment and a discriminating knowledge of the varied feelings which as Jasper Roseblade he sought, and successfully, to delineate. He never acted more magnificently than in the prison scene, where, writhing under the accumulating horrors closing in about the doomed convict, without a single ray of light to pierce the gloom of his dungeon tomb and bid the tortured heart look up and hope for better things, he abandons himself to the wildest despair, and with the frenzied shrieks of an insane man swoons away. The naturalness of his acting leaves impressions which we cannot convey to our readers, being unable to define them. Mr. Berdel’s success was symbolized in the crystal tears which we have heard his pathos drew from many sympathetic eyes.
Mr. McLaughlin displayed a thorough insight into the nature and bearings of the character he acted. The talent of real imitation is slow and difficult of development. To imitate the voice, manner, and bodily accidents of another is an accomplishment possessed but by comparatively few. How much more difficult is the feat of identifying oneself with the thoughts and feelings of the spiritual man. And yet we think that Mr. McLaughlin has achieved remarkable success in both respects, a success which we are al
most tempted to say does not pale even when contrasted with Mr. Berdel’s. We regard the character of an old man as abounding in more knotty and stubborn obstacles to the success of the youth who represents it than any other. So much more credit is due to him who has skilfully smoothed away those obstacles, as Mr. McLaughlin has done. His transformation from the impulsive youth of twenty summers to the venerable patriarch in the twilight of life, was very complete.
What we might write in unaffected praise of Mr. C. J. Dodge could not enhance the lofty reputation he has enjoyed for many years as one of the most accomplished players the stage of Notre Dame has ever produced. We hardly think that the part assigned him in the play gave him a field wide enough for the display of those grander tragic powers with which he has so often distinguished himself. We cannot add anything to .the harvest of golden praise he has reaped, and so we pass on.
W. W. Dodge appeared to marked advantage in the role of the courteous and dignified, benevolent and disinterested parson, soliciious, in the true Gospel sense, for the well-being of the poor cottagers, and sustaining them when every incident in their history portended dark calamities.
“Humphrey Higson” was well represented by Mr. Robert Staley. He acted the part of a cruel, designing man, whose avaricious heart throbbed to the whisperings of no kindly sentiment, but beat to the music of chinking coin, even though that coin might be stained with the blood of his intended victims. Mr. Staley left a very favorable impression of his ability, and we know of no one among the Thespians who would have invested his part with more interest.
The same may be said of Mr. W. J. Clarke. There were many excellent points in his acting; and if he did not rise to the height of perfection, he at least rose far above the commonplace. But we will never forgive him for the heart-breaking difficulties in which the wily machinations of the “Poacher ” entrapped the unsuspecting steps of “Jasper Roseblade.”
We are much indebted to Messrs. D. Maloney and H. Walker for the feasts of merriment with which they regaled us. Their strokes of humor and gaiety were irresistible, and would even unseal the lips of a stoic and make him exclaim “ there is nothing like it." In comic character and power of mimicry they stand unsurpassed at the University, so rich in geniuses of a side-splitting kind. Messrs. H. V. and L. S. Hayes in their respective roles of Viscount, Chief Justice, and Lieutenant, have secured a more than, ephemeral honor, for the grace, dignity, courtly demeanor and general truthfulness to nature which walked the rendering of their parts. There was a happy contrast between the ladylike gentility of the' Viscount and the spirited bearing of the gallant and aggrieved Lieutenant. Our legal friends, Messrs. E. Mf Sweeny, T. Dailey, and B. McGinnis, gave us fine embodiments of the solemn magistrate, the adroit pleader, and the thoughtful and expedite courtclerk. The evident legal adaptability we perceived in these gentlemen’s movements we take as an earnest of the future success awaiting them in the field of jurisprudence.
We have already exceeded all legitimate bounds in throwing off our report, but we must not close it without thanking the Thespians for the rational enjoyment their Entertainment afforded all in attendance, the musicians who came in between the acts with the sweets of classic music, and Prof. Lyons whose unceasing exertions to place the Thespian Association of 1873-4 on a loftier summit than its predecessors ever attained, have been crowned with success.
We attended the exhibition not to while away an unoccupied hour, neither to indulge an idle curiosity, but to admire the deep philosophy of the play, and learn the valuable lesson written on its pages and so admirably read by the actors. Our work is finished. Those of whom we have been conversing are far away. But our closing words, the last perhaps which we may ever address them, will be carried to them by the Scholastic. They are these: “ Heaven speed ye well on your various paths, and may your acting on the stage of life be as high, as noble, and as perfect as it was in the drama “Waiting for the Verdict,” on the 23d of June, 1874.	Hahwich.
THE SCHOLASTIC.	303
We overlooked the fact that all the young gentlemen ■whom -we have mentioned in our report have graduated with high honors in some one of the three departments of Arts, Science, and Laws, except Mr. E. J. McLaughlin who has just completed his Junior year.
Alumni Reunion.
Hot the least of the interesting features connected with the Annual Commencement Exercises of Notre Dame University is the reunion of her Alumni, who come from almost every part of the United States. Though the number of the Alumni is as yet quite small when compared with similar associations of other colleges, still as year after year rolls by this number steadily increases, keeping pace with the advancing steps of Notre Dame, thus serving to guard her from evil influences and to promote her in the ranks of progressive and celebrated institutions.
This year truly has Notre Dame reason to feel proud of the new accession to her Alumni; for the Class of ’74, so replete with talent, earnestness, and zeal, cannot but in due course of time reflect honor on its Alma Mater and take its place with deserving praise in the ranks of all its predecessors. Let us here on behalf of the Alumni extend to them the warm hand of greeting and fraternal welcome, bidding them a God-speed in whatever avocation of life they may engage, and trusting that inevitable Death will spare them many years yet to come, to grace annually our banquet-hall and revive sweet memories of the past.
Amongst the old friends of other days whom we had the pleasure of meeting, we noted the following gentlemen of the Alumni: Rev. T. O’Sullivan, Ph. D., of Laporte, Ind.; Mark M. S: Foote, A B., of Burlington, Iowa; J. F. McHugh, A. B., of Lafayette, Ind.; N. S. Mitchell,,B. S., of Davenport, Iowa.; W. F, Lynch, A. M., of Elgin, Ill.; D. J. Hogan, A. B., of Chicago, Ill.; J. J. Fitzgibbon, A. M., of Chicago, Ill.
We are sorry that urgent business detained a great number at home, and that the worthy President of the Association, Rev. D. J. Spillard, A. M., was not able to be with us, likewise Rev. E. B. Kilroy, who was called to the death-bed of a beloved sister. Many others, too, sent in their regrets at not being able to attend the reunion ; but a goodly number, we are pained to say, slighted the invitation extended them and did not deem it worthy of the requested reply. We trust that worldly pursuits and cares have not rendered them oblivious of their Alma Mater and classmates.
Still, with the small number present, we held our regular business-meeting at the appointed time, on Tuesday preceding the Commencement-Day, Prof. W. Ivers, 1st Vice-President, in the chair. After the accepting of reports of Treasurer and Committees, the election of < fficeis for the ensuing year was proceeded with, and resulted in the following choice:
President—Rev. M. B. Brown, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Ind ; 1st Vice-President—Prof. T. E. Howard, A. M., LL. B , Notre Dame, Ind.; 2nd Vice-President—N. S Mitchell, M. S., Davenport, Iowa; Secretary—Prof. A. J. Stace, A. M., Notre Dame, Ind.; Treasurer—Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M., Notre Dame, Ind.; Orator—T. F. O’Mahony, A. B., M. S., Lake Forest, Ill.; Alternate—J. F. McHugh, M. A., Lafayette, Ind.; Poet—M. H. Keeley, A. B., Beloit, Wis. ; Alternate— M. M. S. Foote, A. B., Burlington, Iowa.
The most important business transacted was that pertaining to the re-publication of the “Silver Jubilee,” the plates of which were totally destroyed in the Chicago fire.
Prof. Howard was appointed a committee of one to inform the members that the book would be re-issued, and to ask what amount each one would subscribe towards defraying the expense of publication, with the number of volumes he would take. Prof. Howard will accordingly call on each alumnus during the year, either personally or by letter, for his assistance, after which the matter will be referred to the standing committee, which is composed of Alumni resident at Notre Dame. We hope to see a generous response from all, thus testifying that an interest is taken in the Association and the Institution that gave it birth.
After three hours of a business session, the meeting adjourned to convene again at two p. m.	.	'
IN THE BANQUET HALL.
At the appointed hour, all sat down to partake of the banquet given the Alumni by their Alma Mater. Amongst the invited guests present were Hon. S. S. Hayes, City Comptroller of Chicago; Hon. A. C. Dodge, Mayor of Burlington, Iowa, and the graduating Class in Law. When all had enjoyed the many good things placed before them, Prof. A. J. Stace, newly elected Secretary, arose and read in his characteristic humorous manner a number of letters from absent Alumni, which will be found elsewhere in the columns of the Scholastic. Prof. Ivers, the retiring President, then announced Gen. W. F. Lynch, of ’65, as orator, vice Rev. E. M. O’Callaghan who is absent on a tour to the Holy Land. The General, however, begged to be excused, as the notification that he was expected to give the oration did not reach him sufficiently early to enable him to prepare one which would do justice to the Association ; still he asked permission to address a few words to his old friends and to give some timely advice to the young graduates. We are sorry that we had to forego the pleasure of hearing an oration from the General.
Gen. A. C. Dodge was next called upon, and favored his hearers with interesting accounts of his early schooldays and the disadvantages of a backwoods school. Mr. Dodge, in turn, requested Prof. O’Mahony to address a few words to the audience, who, though taken completely by surprise, arose and with his characteristic self-possession and determination “ to fight it out on that line if it took all summer,” made a beautiful little speech to the graduates, congratulating them upon their anticipated honors and bidding them cordial welcome to the festive board of their fellow-Alumni.
Rev. Father Carrier, on behalf of the Board of Trustees, acknowledged the vote of thanks tendered them for the banquet which they had just enjoyed, and in a few words expressed his sincere desire that every Alumnus may continue in the future, as he has done in the past, to reflect honor and glory on his Alma Mater. Rev. Father Lemon-nier, though just recovering from a severe illness, ventured to make a little address, in which he welcomed to the halls of Notre Dame all her friends, and especially her Alumni. He hoped that a long and happy life would be their lot, so that as year after year rolls by they might all meet in friendly intercourse and ever add new strength to the bond of affection that binds them to the Institution which claims them as her children.
In conclusion we can say that no reunion has been as pleasant and so replete with interest as the one we have vainly endeavored to chronicle; still, many faces we had promised ourselves the pleasure of greeting were absent, but we know they were with us at least in spirit. May we all meet at Notre Dame again in 1875, and enjoy the Seventh Annual Reunion in company with the friends and companions that college days rendered dear to us. •
Dion, An Alumnus.
Ezsroises by ths Graduates.
“A chiefs amang you fakin’ notes An’ faith he'll prent it.”—Bubns.
The announcement that the graduates of ’74 were to hold forth attracted a large number of expectant friends to Washington Hall on Monday, June 22d, at 4 o’clock, p. m. The afternoon’s entertainment was opened as usual by our Brass Band, which was followed immediately by the Orchestra. Any words of praise which we could employ would fail to add anything to the well-earned reputation which those musical bodies already enjoy.
During the few minutes which intervened between the music and the raising of the curtain, we cast a coup-d'aii upon the audience which the occasion called together, and . were pleased to notice that Rev. Father Lemonnier occupied liis accustomed chair and lent the charm of his approving smile to the exercises of the afternoon. Prominent amongst the guests we noticed the Hon. Mr. and Mrs. Dodge, of Burlington, Iowa, and our friend of former years, Mr. N. S. Mitchell, M. S., and his fair bride. -
f
3 64	THESCHOLASTIC.
The exercises of the graduates were introduced byMr. T. P. White, A. B., of Versailles, Ky., who appeared as the representative of the Classical Department of the Univer. sity, and discoursed for ten or fifteen minutes in the language of Cicero and Horace. The subject of Mr. White’s discourse was “ De Dignitatc Hominis, et Vera Significatione Vita,” which is thus translated into our mother-tongue:— “ Concerning the Dignity of Man, and the True Signification of Life.” Mr. White’s pronunciation of Latin is quite correct but his manner of reading is somewhat monotonous.
Mr. D. E. Maloney, B. S. of Harvard, Ill., next appeared upon the stage and spoke briefly on “ The Utility of Science.” He proved to the satisfaction of his auditors that the Sciences in general, and particularly the three which he instanced—namely Chemistry, Anatomy and Physiology— have been important agencies in the advancement of civilization and the improvement of our material condition. Mr. Maloney speaks with a good deal of self-possession and nonchalance for a young man. If we were disposed to be critical, however, we should say that his walking up and down and changing his position so frequently upon the stage might' be considered a defect in his delivery, which, we must confess, is in other respects very graceful.
Mr. Wm. Clarke, A. B., of Columbus, Ohio, next made his obeisance to the audience and read a very well written dissertation on “The Spirit of the 19th Century,” which was creditable alike to the literary talent and Christian spirit of the writer. Mr. Clarke’s delivery was pleasing, but it seemed to us that the pitch of his voice was disagreeably high.. According to the old proverb, “It is good to. possess the strength of a giant but it is tyrannical to use it as a giant.”
Mr. Clarke was succeeded by Mr. Charles Berdel, B. S, of Chicago, 111., who delighted and instructed his hearers with “A Glance at Geology.” This address abounded in lofty thoughts and was interspersed with beautiful and appropriate quotations from the poets. Mr. Berdel’s reputation as a graceful and effective speaker is well established at Notre Dame; but if we were permitted to assume the character of a friendly critic we would say that his delivery on this occasion was too declamatory. We could not help regretting that Mr. Berdel did not read his dissertation.
After a second instalment of music by the Band, Mr. Lewis Hayes, A. B., of Chicago, Ill., made his bow to the audience and proceeded to read, in a tone of voice which was delightfully clear and distinct, a well-prepared disquisition on “ The influence of Literature.” He depicted in srtong and glowing colors the beneficial influence which literary studies produce in elevating and ennobling the mind of man, in enabling us of the present day to commune with the great minds of antiquity. Mr. Hayes presents a .fine personal appearance on the rostrum, and his elocution is faultless.
M. Harry Walker, B. S., of Chicago, followed with a thoughtful essay on “ Knowledge.” Mr. Walker’s delivery was good, but his tone of voire was somewhat, monotonous. Our musical friend, Mr. Carl Otto, then favored the audience with one of his choice pieces of music, after which Mr. R W. Staley, A. B., of St. Louis, Mo., appeared upon the rostrum as the representative.of the Greeks, and filled his audience with Hellenic ecstasy by the charming manner in which he read his Greek essay on “ The Greek Language and Literature.” A Greek scholar who sat near us said that the essay was well written and prettv well read.
“ Comments on JEstheticsby Mr. W. W. Dodge, B. S., of Burlington, Iowa, was one of the most delightful addresses that we have had the good fortune to hear in Washington Hall for many a day. The address was replete from beginning to end with pure and chaste thoughts expressed in language which harmonized with the sentiments.
Here, gentle reader, ends the report prepared by our friend T. O’M., whom the anticipated pleasures and friendly greetings of Lake Forest hastened away ere his flowing pen could complete what it had so well begun. So we trust he will permit his sincere friend, “ Dion,” to bring up the rear, though he cannot muster such powerful forces, and express the wish that—
“ He who writes and runs away, , . May-live to write another day.” - ■ Following Mr. Dodge’s address was a fine piece of music
from'the Brass Band, which chimed well with the beautifiil thoughts of the former, whilst it prepared the way for the beautiful class*poem—entitled “Memorial ” by Mr. H. V. Hayes, B. S., of Chicago. Mr. Hayes depicted in measured language the trials and difficulties encountered by the student from the time of his entrance into college until the goal of graduation appears in the distance, and the heart grows strong with hope whilst it yearns for the realization of his fond desires. The class of ’74 have reason to feel proud of their poet in the person of Harold.
Mr. T. A. Dailey, B.S., of Hillsdale, Michigan, next steps forward wjth elaborate and studied “ Speculations on the Material Universe.” Mr. Dailey is already familiar to the readers of the Scholastic, as he has been a steady contributor to its columns during the past year, and it is unnecessary to say anything in his praise. He manifested an extensive knowledge of the beautiful science of the stars.
From the poetic treatise on the heavenly bodies we were led to the poetry of “Commerce,” by Mr. W. P. Ball, Master of Accounts, of Chicago. Little did we imagine that a subject so devoid of poetry could be handled in so interesting a manner as Mr. Ball has demonstrated to us. His composition and ideas would have done jnstice to older heads. Notre Dame could well pride herself upon such commercial graduates as he represented on this occasion.
The piano and violin next mingled their notes under the accomplished guidance of Mr. C. Otto at the former, and C. Burger at the latter instrument.:-
Rev. M. B. Brown, Director of Studies, rose at the conclusion of the duet, and expressed himself well pleased with the exercises, complimenting the graduates on the study and research displayed in their efforts. He also took occasion to mention that the present class is composed of more orators and poets than any that has ever received degrees at Notre Dame. His remarks were received with applause.	‘
Thus ended the rich literary feast prepared by the graduates with so much care, and yet enjoyed by so few; for we are sure that, excluding the members of the Faculty and students, not more than ten visitors were present. Of course this was owing to the fact that the exercises took place too early in the week for the friends of the students to be here in time. We hope other arrangements will be made for next year, as it is a shame to have such displays of genius, most creditable to a University, thrown aside in the. shade, whilst the school-boy play occupies the most prominent position in the Commencement Exercises.
=	T. O’M., and Dion.
Annual Commencement at Saint Mary’s Academy.
Tuesday June, 22, 1874.
While “ Exhibition Day ” must always be the grand day, the afternoon of Tuesday gave a quiet opportunity to the world outside of forming a fair judgment upon the school. The beautiful decorum which seems to fall like a mantle upon every child coming within the charming precincts of St. Mary’s, was seen in every movement, whether general or individual. Some one said to us: ’ “ This is my first visit to St. Mary’s; and among all thafpleases me I must speak of the gracefulness of the young ladies and of the cliildren as very uncommon, even in convent schools.” It is not the last training and drilling for “Exhibition-Day” which gives this perfection of grace in manner. Nor is it the special training throughout the year. The lessons upon exterior courtesy must be accompanied by lessons inculcating a spirit of sincere veneration, which will endure through life. ’
The opening piece of music, Mendelssohn’s Cappriccio Brilliants, was beautifully given by Miss McEwen of Chicago—which is praise indeed when one remembers whose music was played. It must have given satisfaction even to her teachers. -
The cavatina “ Lost Birdling ” was to have been sung by Miss Miller; but as this young lady, whose rich, full voice gives promise of great excellence, was suffering from a cold which would prevent her doing justice either to’ herself or to the song, the pleasant duty devolved upon Miss Lilly West. This call upon her was too sudden to
THE SCHOLASTIC.	365
I	allow of practice, but the unpremeditated execution of the
i	song was so successful as to justify the medal which we
i heard was to be'awarded to Miss West for vocal music.
Wilmer’s celebrated Fantasia on Lucia di Lammermoor, i	as given by IWiss Spier, gave good evidence of industry and
I	careful training. It is a favorite fantasie, from:a favorite
j	opera. ‘ “ Greeting to Spring,'’ a vocal Quartette arranged
> from Strauss’ celebrated Danube Waltzes, was sung by four । fresh young voices as the greeting to Spring should be.
I	“ Taeca La Noth Placida ” was charmingly given by Miss
* O’Connor. She has a beautiful voice, and sings with sim-1 plicity and expression.
I ' Polonaise A 2 Major, Opus 53, by that great master of true music Chopin, was given by Miss Black in a manner which showed that she could not only fill the Exhibition Hall at St. Mary’s but a larger one still. The composition > was one calling for a vigor of execution to which few young ladies can be expected to attain. This Polonaise, or national dance of the Polish noblesse, is not a dance in any ,	modern sense of that word. It is rather a musical descrip, .	tion of a rythmical procession, in which every individual
is expected to follow the leader, winding in and out among । the groves of some old domain; and this train of knightly j dignitaries, in full costume, is seen, like a graceful ribhon, from the heights of the feudal castle. Liszt once said: “That '	only is a true Polonaise, in which one hears the ring of the
'	spurs.” We did hear the ring of the spurs in Miss Black’s
’ Tendering of the AjZ Major; and the whole execution gave the chivalrous spirit of the composition. The successive .	crescendo octaves, executed entirely by the left hand, were
'	wonderfully given, and to be appreciated only by those
’ who have attempted to master such technical difficulties.
Miss Foote gave very pleasingly the celebrated Rondo Song from Rossini’s “ Cenerentola.” Her voice is sweet, full and flexible.	'	-
Rapsodies Hongroises, No. 8, by F. Liszt, is a composition worthy of the great composer, and was given by Miss Walker with so much expression, so much fineness of perl ception, so much delicacy of execution, that the very soul of the composer's intention seemed to have been understood by the young lady at the piano. This is so marked a characteristic of her playing that the idea of skilful execution
1 is lost in the enjoyment of her harmonies. But the medi-• tative pauses, the poetic cadences, expressing all the # charms of the Hungarian imagination, were magnificently | summed up in the rushing finale, which took the trans-l ported listener through this rhapsody of genius.
’ . The aspirants for the gold medal in the Musical Depart-V ’ ment, Miss Walker and Miss Black, have certainly won j the guerdon of honor. And we could not help thinking > how few of those young ladies who go abroad to secure a \ musical education ever return with the really solid musical t knowledge which these young ladies have acquired in our 4 own schools. It is time for us, as Americans, to appreciate our own means of culture. With the opportunity of having h such a band as Thomas’, and with the faithful, enthusiastic J	teachers in our owu midst, we must surely see that our
,	daughters can receive a thorough musical education at
। home.	■
The .chorus by Mendelssohn: “ As the hart pants for the water-brooks, so pants my soul for Thee, 0 God,” was given by the vocal class with admirable fidelity, clearness of enunciation and nobleness of expression. It -was, in the language of another who heard it, “ simply beautiful! ” and Miss McEwen closed the musical performances of Tuesday Sby her accompaniment as faithfully as she introduced it by her Cappriedo. During the year, 196 pupils have belonged to the Musical Department, to which thirteen teachers have given faithful, intelligent and enthusiastic service, as one cannot but acknowledge.
Whatever may be the promise of a musical performance >3	on the day beforeJExhibition, those who gathered into the
t	Hall at St. Mary’s were anxious to hear the Essays of the
p graduates. These were eight in number, and something V more than a day’s wonder "was wrapped up in their gra-L duating Essays: the fruit of years of study, of discipline, ! of watchfulness on the part of teachers, of diligence on the part of the pupil, and of the whole atmosphere of the circle in which they had moved, breathed—in short, lived. The parent, indeed, nfglit well hope to find the Essay lived out by the daughter,	■
“Foundations,” by Miss Brown, showed solidity of mind and justness of sentiment, and an acquaintance'with those moral, philosophical and religious ideas which underlie Christian society, as well as with the history of its institutions.	•
“ Criticism,” by Miss Spier, gave evidence of the neatness and carefelness of the living critic. Just criticism is almost as rare as happiness, according to the fairy stories.
“^Kaleidoscope of Life'' by Miss Kearney, was admirable in its sentiments and composition, and was read by one who seemed to look on the events of time as quietly as one who watches the ever-changing ^patterns of the kaleidoscope.
“Ruins,” by Miss Niel, was a poem in charming prose, and was read with a remarkably clear and melodious intonation.	.
“ Gems,” by Miss Devoto, not only took the brilliants • from the mine and passed them through the hands of the lapidary, but touched upon gems of unfading beauty and worth. Her subject was treated very suggestively.
“ Laurels,” by Miss Black, gave a very pleasant idea of the young lady’s literary tastes and love of the beautiful.
“ Builders,” by Miss Gross, was a well-written essay upon a subject interesting to our young country, building for the future.
“Shrines,” by Miss Langdon, was made worthy of its name by the good thoughts by which it was enriched.
“Mathematical View of Creation,” by Miss West, had a grave title only to prove how the vivacious intellect of an accomplished young lady can play with great things in such a way as to impress even while it amuses.
The Valedictory (on Wednesday), “ The Scroll of Life,” was appropriate for sentiments which were gracefully expressed, and read so as to be heard by all. A great charm.
To those who were favored with a near view of these Essays, they were found enriched not only by a title-page in the exquisite handwriting which distinguishes St. Mary’s Academy, but on the covers were given, in miniature painting, pictorial renderings of each subject, several of ’ which were original as artistic compositions. This is a refinement of intellectual luxury which we find only at St. Mary’s, where the limner’s art seems to have found a home, and a very delightful home too; which brings us ’ to the
Studio, or Gallery of Art.
And here we were pleased to find, not only beautiful copies of beautiful landscapes and heads in oil, but a few studies from actual still-life, in the same oil-colors, showing great taste and also great facility of execution, and good -artistic aspirations.	.	‘
In the water-color department were illuminations original in design and color, studies of flowers, birds’ nests, and : shells, from nature, given with real delicacy of perception • both as to forms and color. Graceful delineations of nature’s most graceful moods.	•
In the pencil department were a mvdtitude of blocks . drawn from the original wooden ones, standing near them, as if to invite comparison, and certainly without reason-'-to fear it. Above these, in pencil, were arranged still more difficult studies from blocks in India-ink. Studies from • cylinders, spheres and eggs, were also executed with ad-' mirable fidelity both in pencil and India-ink. But among the most pleasing evidences of the result of this' evidently thorough training were the studies of trees before clothed ■ with the leafy verdure which now gives such a charm to • St. Mary’s. These trees would, or ought to, satisfy Ruskin himself. We saw a very neatly-executed picture of tne Chapel of Loreto, and several of the Exhibition Hall, in pencil! showing to what landscape triumphs these sylvan studies pointed; while a little girl of twelve (a Minim, we found out,) actually had the Exhibition Hall delicately out- -lined on a bit of letter paper, drawn in hours of recreation.-
These youthful efforts pleased us by the promise they-gave of future merit in the same direction, the only di-‘ rection which can lead to any genuine artistic merit or even , artistic taste.	e	.
Forty pupils have received studio lessons in drawing and • painting; while general lessons in free-hand and perspec--tive drawing from objects have been given in all the departments. We were told that the pupils in the Minim, • Junior, as well as Senior Department, had been advanced
366
THE SCHOLASTIC.
to the drawing of simple landscapes from nature during the present year. A course of drawing has been so steadily and successfully carried on during the last year, that gold medals are to be awarded to those who graduate in it according to the winning of this honor in the Academic and Musical Courses.
.The Art gallery was evidently rejoicing over its tri umphs, its laurels already won. The large studio of the Academy was transformed from a hive for busy workers into a veritable gallery of fine arts. The pictures, casts, and even blocks, were so arranged as to give an air of beauty to every spot in the room. Even weary easels and tired palettes and exhausted brushes assumed an air of elegant ease in their nooks and corners—while flowers and vines, arranged with artistic grace, gave a festive look to the whole, such as no studio can wear excepting on Exhibition day.
. When we came to the details of the room we were really surprised at the amount of solid work accomplished in one year. We had heard all about the course to be inaugurated sometime at St. Mary’s when all the copyists would retire from the field and leave the true artists to work out their wonders, natural and supernatural. We supposed this was to come with the time and the tide; but, to our astonishment, here it was 1 Actually the Art Academy Course in full operation! and if there were some very nice copies allowed in this model Exhibition of Art, it was only because the young eagles were fledged before the law was promulgated. Henceforth all the eagles are to prick their feathers and plume their wings after the Giotto plan, who sketched his father’s sheep as he basked in the Italian sun, with an Italian boy’s true composure, and-^a true artist’s intuition.	•
Soberly, this new course of drawing and painting has a wonderful freshness and variety about it. There were blocks in pencil and India-ink in every conceivable position, and even the eyes of the uninitiated could see how all the houses and domestic roofs in Christendom could be given by young students in the limner’s art. Then there were cubic squares, and cylinders placed thereon, iu such a way as to suggest the columns of “long drawn aisles” and wonderful perspective distances; while spheres, and the elegant ovals of eggs under all sorts of fbreshortenings, gave the principles that govern the artist in the drawing of the human “ face divine.”
From these geometrical verities perspectively expressed in the language of art, we came to the tree-drawing—to trees in all the beauty of leafless stems and twigs, rejoicing in the complexity of interlacing boughs; and we could not help thinking that Ruskin would feel more satisfaction in this tree-drawing of carefully-instructed pupils, than in all the free, bold, or in other words, hasty drawings and paintings of trees in most of our gallery and art salesrooms. The characteristic of each tree was so well given that the acacia and the oak were in no danger of being confounded by an intelligent observer of forms! The landscape too had been fairly conquered by these young aspirants for fame: for not only did the Exhibition Hall appear, surrounded by its early Spring guard of leafless sentinels, but Loreto was there in all the charms of Summer shadows and June foliage; while some other trees in full leaf showed the perseverance of the youthful sketchers in their open air efforts. We noticed one sketch-of the Exhibition Hall on a bit of letter-paper, and drawn by a Minim, if you please, of twelve years! There was no mistaking thegenuineness of this bit of landscape-drawing. The tremulous accuracy of the whole building and of the trees was a better comment upon the course at St. Mary’s than anything we could write. There was mind in that _ sketch; and the hand only needs the steadiness of youth in its teens to express what the clear eye already sees.
After these studies in pencil and India-ink came the really charming little studies in water-colors. They were quite unambitious, but all the more pleasing because of the modest intention of doing only what could be done well. There was a grace in their arrangements, a delicacy in their treatment and a truth in their tints, which the close observation of nature alone gives. Wild flowers, birds’ nests with their blue-green eggs, shells, all gave the same evidence of the child’s growing preceptions of beauty; while several illuminations, some in printed outlines, and others
of original design, show how the young eye for color sometimes outstrips the eye for exact forms. -
Going towards the oil department, we found two very nice fruit pieces from nature. They were finely grouped .and truthful in coloring. Some very charming copies of landscapes; our only regret being that the still more charming scenery around St. Mary’s had not been represented by the same skilful hand. Palmer’s beautiful medallions of Night and Morning we found in appropriate hues; the Aurora and Hesperus of the palette.
With such evidence of artistic taste and culture among the Art students, we look forward to the time when the graduates from this department will receive the same Gold Medal which now rewards the student in the Academic and Musical Courses. We understand that General Lessons in free-hand and perspective are given to all the pupils in the Senior, Junior and Minim Departments; so that no child or young lady can leave St. Mary’s without some knowledge of the art which has done so much to civilize the world.	-
I
The Blessing of the Statue of St. Cecilia.
The history of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association is written in characters of light. Its pages are successions of glowing pictures. If some shadows are interspersed through its leaves, they but enhance its brilliancy. '
Light and shade are blended in every perfect portrait. It would be strange if these elements were not found agreeably united in the record we are contemplating. The St. Cecilians have recently added another shining flower to the time-honored chaplet wreathing their brows. The following letter, handed us by the indefatigable Director of the Association, Professor J. A. Lyons, very appropriately introduces what we meditate saying.
“St. Mary’s; June 14th, 1874.
“Professor Lyons, President of the St. Cecilia Society, Notre Dame.
“ My Good and long-tried Friend:—I take pleasure in sending you the accompanying statue of St. Cecilia, which I purchased in Paris last Summer: and I present it to you, not merely in my official capacity as Superior of St. Mary’s Academy, as a testimonial of our thanks for your many acts of kindness to the Academy, but also in my character as General Superior of the Sisters of Holy Cross, as a tribute of our esteem and gratitude for the many favors rendered at different times to the Sisters of the Order in our various Houses. And taking occasion of this beautiful month of June to commend you and yours to the Sacred Heart of our Divine Lord, I am your true friend in Christ,
“ Sr. Mary of St. Angela.”
The foregoing letter, while it speaks volumes in praise of our good Professor, and not unmeetly, made him the recipient of one of the loveliest, if not the most exquisite pieces of statuary to be seen at the University. Here and elsewhere we have seen beautiful figures plucked from the virgin marble, or moulded in pliable wax, and adorned with all the glories of artistic ingenuity; but we have never seen a statue seemingly so instinct with life- and sympathy and sensibility, as that of St. Cecilia, the Queen of Music and Sacred Song, now the choicest treasure in Professor'Lyons’ palatial Society-room.
We might hazard a description of this gem of inimitable design and well-nigh perfect execution, were the necessary space at our command in the Scholastic. As it is, however, we must forbear for the present; but we cannot allow the opportunity to pass without at least mentioning the angelic expression of that sweet and lovely face. It is turned heavenward, and the eyes are apparently piercing the veil separating the firmament from the throne of God. One imagines, in glancing from the miniature organ gracefully supported by the left hand, and the keys gently pressed by the fingers of the right, to the upturned countenance, that St. Cecilia not only beholds the splendor of the Great White Throne, but also catches the entrancing notes of the Seraphim, to which she is attuning the king of instruments. Indeed our own souls are, under the magnetism of such inspiring creations of art as this statue, floated away to almost divine heights. We feel the warm
! i i
1
A
A
i.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
367
glow of heaven’s blessed sunshine in our hearts, and itsf exultant music making glad our lives.
On Sunday evening, June' the 20th, the statue was blessed and placed in its position, by Very Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C. • There was a large number of visitors at the ceremony. It was rumored that Prof. Howard, of the University, and Hon. A. 0. Dodge, of Burlington, Iowa, would be the orators of the occasion, and this will no doubt account for the many who availed themselves of Prof. Lyons’ invitation to be present.
Prof. Howard’s address was elegant in its simplicity, pure in its language, and glistening with golden threads of wisdom. - He spoke on the youth, beauty, and purity of St. Cecilia, and her victories over every manner of temptation placed to entrap her into a denial of her religion, a sacrifice of her purity, a betrayal of her virginity. The theme was appropriate to the occasion, and Prof. Howard was worthy of the theme.
Hon. A. C. Dodge followed the Profesor, in one of those high-toned, practical speeches so characteristic of the man. His remarks were mainly intended for, and were well suited to, his young auditors of the St. Cecilia Society, and if acted upon would be sure to secure them the success they arelooking forward to. The Hon. gentleman is deeply interested in the welfare of thesludentsof Notre Dame; and if sound advice, gatheied up from his own experience of men and things, would insure their prosperity one and all, we know he haslost no opportunity in the past, nor will he in time to come, in inculcating those principles upon which alone character and manhood worthy of the name can be founded.
Sir. Mark Foote, one of the stars of the St. Cecilia firmament in former days, and a graduate of ’73, made the closing remarks, in what all concede to be the brightest epoch in the history of Prof. Lyons’ society.
We had almost forgotten to mention-that Rev. Father Lemonnier was present for a short time, and spoke for a few moments, before retiring, in a very touching manner, to his beloved St. Cecilians. Mr. Charles Berdel, an old member of the Society, also delivered a stirring declamation, —but we are at the end of our paper and must close without further remarks, hoping that the past career of Prof. Lyons and the St. Cecilians may be to their future success as the soft silvery shining of the harvest moon to the undimmed brilliancy of the noonday sun. Wexford.
Prospectus of the Graduating1 Class.
' Mr. Editor :—As you are aware, the regular historian of a College class is always required to furnish to an ex pectant world all the facts concerning his class which he can possibly collect or invent; and as the historian of the class of ’74 is, unhappily, non est, his mantle has fallen upon me. Yet, as a gleaner, I have not been entirely unsuccessful ; nor can I be reproached as Sheridan upbraided himself when interviewed and required to give some explanation of his most wonderful wit. He replied: “My dear sir, I am indebted to my memory for my jokes, and to my imagination for my facts;” but then Sheridan was a hiimorist, while I started out by calling myself a historian (pro tern).
The Graduating Class of ’74 may be considered a light one physically (we hope we are not making light of any one when we say they have been weighed—not in a balance—but on a hay-scales, and their weight is 1,556 lbs.), the largest man in the class weighing 160, the smallest 128 lbs. The united class can s. e on a level plain a distance equal to one-tenth the radius of the earth, hence they cannot be called short-sighted by the envious and malicious. They are also somewhat off-handed, as the smallest member, alone, can strike a ton, and there is only one man in the class who throws a ball with his left band. As to putting an old head on young shoulders, why of course you can! the youngest member of the class speaks of Homer, Epicurus and Herodotus as if they were his schoolmates, and considerably below him at that.
' The oldest member of the class is 22, the youngest 17; the average of the class is 19% years; their united age is 211% years, or 757% years less than the age of Methuselah. The height of the~class, as measured with a pocket rule, is 622
eet, or 375 feet taller than the' spire of the new church. (Their depth is said to be unfathomable). In regard to their geographical distribution, two are from Iowa, one from Missouri, five from Illinois, one from Ohio, one from Michigan and one from Kentucky. After leaving the University, six will study Law, and as at least four of them , are natural orators their success is pretty well assured. One has had several attacks of a mania for Civil Engineering, two will study Medicine, one will become a newspaper man, and one, who-has been styled a natural Editor, will continue to drive his fortune as he drives his quill and scissors. One has already manifested a decided talent for playing the jewsharp, and it is to be hoped he will not allow his genius to be smothered, but will continue to practice those harmonious strains which have ever been the cause of envy and delight to all his classmates. The class are said to indulge iu matrimonial prospetcs, and it has been rumored that four are already engaged—five will be engaged as soon as an opportunity offers; one has sworn to remain an old bachelor for life, even at the risk of being called “ crusty ” by those whose good fortune should render them more generous; and one is entirely hopeless, as we have evidence of his being rejected ninety-three times, and he positively asserts that he will not go beyond a hundred.
There is not a member of the class who has not been before the foot lights on the stage during his college course, successful; and as the ancient bard of Avon assures us that “ All the world’s a stage,” let us hope it is an augury of their success in the golden future just ahead.
Historian.
We have room to publish only a few of the letters that have been received from absent Alumni.
Austin, Texas, June 16,1S74.
Prof. D. A. Clarke, Secretary Associated Alumni, Notre Dame University, Notre Dame, Indiana:	•
Your invitation to attend the banquet of the Associated
Alumni of Notre Dame University came to hand nearly two weeks ago. I purposely deferred answering, hoping, almost against hope, to be present with you on this annual reunion, as I have ever been since the organization of the Association. But it is with sincere regret that I am this year obliged to forego that pleasure, and participate only in spirit in your joyous feast.
' Never since I had an Alma Mater have 1 been so long a time and so far away from her fostering care and holy influence ; never have I till now realized how deep and lasting was my affection for dear Notre Dame. The ties which bind me to her and to those who will gladden by their cheerful presence at this time her doubly consecrated halls of Religion and Science, seem to bind me closer as distance separates me from them. I feel to-day, not a stranger in a land that is almost unknown, but a son of Notre Dame, whose name and well-earned fame has not only reached these Texan wilds,'but penetrated the almost impenetrable wilderness of mountain,, desert .and forest of the neighboring States and Territories,—yes, even to the far Pacific.
I would feci justly proud to preside on Alumni Day over the Association which conferred upon me so unmerrited an honor as its highest office,—which; though unmerrited and unsought, is certainly not unappreciated. '
Should I not be able to continue an active member of the Association, my highest ambitiou shall be, after.the fulfilment of my priestly office, to help to lay here the foundations of a second Notre Dame in which a similar association will spring up and reflect like honor on its Alma Mater.
Accept my thanks for your kind invitation, and greet all the “old boys” assembled at our old-happy home, in the name of their little President. Very truly yours,
D. J. Spillard, C. S. C.,	.
■	’	‘ Pres't Associated Alumni, AT. D.'TT.
. Watertown, Wisconsin, May 29,1S74.
D. A. Clarke, -M. A.:	-	■
Dear Friend,—With present prospects before me I regret to say I cannot attend the Associated Alumni meeting, but my heart will be with your movements on that worthy occasion.
Your faithful friend, . .	W. Corby, C. S. C.
Lancaster, Ohio, June IS, 1874.,
D. A. Clarke, Secretary Associated Alumni, Notre Dame, Indiana:
Dear Sir,—Yours of May the 22nd is at hand. I am sorry that circumstances render it impossible for me to attend the coming reunion of the Associated Alumni. Hoping the Association may have a most pleasant and happy rennion, I am, as ever,	Yours sincerely,
‘	John D. McCormick.
3BS
THE SCHOLASTIC.
CANDY! CANDY!
Tice Low Prices Still Continue at
P, L, GARRITY’S C-A-HSTZDYT FACTORY, 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago.
Broken Candy _	_	_	_	15c.
Fine Mixed Candy _	-	_	- 25c.
Choice Mixed Candy _	-	-	35c.
Caramels ------ 35c. Molasses and Cream Candy -	-	25 c.
jPjL-opoi’txoiiatcLy	Prices to w Ixole-
sale Casli Buyers.
WANTED—For Cash—Five or ten tons of Maple Sugar Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door, apt 25 —tf
THE OLD “RELIABLE” DWIGHT HOUSE, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
"A /TESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the _iyj_ above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary's nail find here all the comforts of home during their stay, JERRY-KN.GHT, 1 PrODrietors CAPTAIN MILLS, f 1 roPnetors-
nov 15—tf
L. S.& M. SERAIL WAY.
On and after Sunday, May 24, 1874, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2.35 a. M. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line. Arrives at Toledo. 10 30: Cleveland, 2.35 p. 31.: Buffalo, 8.55 p. 31.
10.38 A. 3i. (No. 2), Alai], over Alain Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p. 3t.; Cleveland, 10.20	■
12.27 a. 31. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.50; Cleveland, 10.10 p. 31.; Buffalo 4 05 a. sr.
9.11 p. 31. (No. G), Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo. 2.40; Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo, 1.10 p. 31.
7.54 p. sr. (No. 10) Toledo Express, Alain Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.30 a. ?t„ Cleveland 7.G5 a. 3t., Bullalo 1’10 P. 31.
3.55 r. 3t. [No.70], Local Freight.
GOING WEST.	.	.
3.20 a. 31. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicago G 30 a. 31.	.
4.50 a. 31. (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.40; Chicago. 8 00 a. si.
5.53 r. 3i.“(No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, G 55; Chicago, 9.10 p. 3i.
4.51 p. 3i. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte 5.15; Chicago, 8 00.
8.00 a. si. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Lapoote 8.55 A. 31 . Chicago 11.10.
720 a. 31. [No. 71 j Local Freight.
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers upon Through Freight Trains.
J W. CARY, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. A1ORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup't Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Snp’l,
Passengers going to local points West, should take Nos. 7,9, ana 71: East, Nos. 2 and 70. Warsaw Express (connecting with No. 4) leaves Elkhart at 12.30 p. 31., running through to Wabash. Through tickets to all competing points in every direction. Local Tickets Insurance tickets, R. 11. Guides, etc., will be furnished upon application to the Ticket Agent.
EMi’WMW.
EVERY man, woman, boy and girl who would like to engage in the business of selling Picttu’cs, Charts, &c., should send their address at once. From $3 to $15 per day can easily be made. Send for private terms and < atalogue. Address
' TV. 3X. BUIIROW. 200 Main Street,
je 13—It.	Bi’istol. Tenn.
Michigan Central Railroad
Time Table.
From and after May 24th, trains on the Michigan Central JRail-road leave Niles as follows:
TRAINS EASTWARD.
Night Express, --------Mail. ----------Day Express. ---------Accommodation, -	--	--	--	-Atlantic Express -	-	-	-	-	-	-	.
Wav Freight, -	--	--	--	--
. ‘	‘	. TRAINS WESTWARD.
Evening Express,	...	.	-	-	-	-
Pacific Express, -	--	--	--	--
Accommodation,	-	--	--	--	--
Mail ------------
Day Express Way Freight
AIR LINE DIVISION.
12.45 a.m
9.10 a.m
12.12 a.m
7.35 p.m S.55 p.m.
8.0J a.m
2.35 a.m
4.40 a.m 0.25 a.m 3.57 p.m 4.35 p m 1.45 p.m
PEXXSILVAX8A C^XTRAL DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD. PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO. Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9 00 p. m. | Arrives at New York 11.30 a.m.* 2d train “	“	5.15 p. m.	“	“	6.41 am.*
3rd train “	'•	9.00. p. m. |	“	“	1130 p.m*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. McCULLOUGll, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M.C. CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jr.. Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Phielphia.
F. R. MYERS. Gen’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass't Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
* Second day.___________________________________
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line.
RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Op Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
EASTWARD. ,
Mail—Arrives in Niles ----->--	■	9.15 p.m
Three Rivers Accommodation	-	-	-	-	-	-	- 7.40 p.m
Atlantic Express ------ ‘A -	- 9.0u p.m
Way Freight ----	-	-	--	--	10.30 a.m
WESTWARD.-
Three Rivers Accommodation—Leave Niles	... fi.05 a.m
Mail -	--	--	--	--	--	-	3.45 p.m
Pacific Express -	--	--	-----	- 5.05 a.m
Way Freight- -	--	--	--	--	- 5.95 p.m
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana. Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation.
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Mairi Line,
St.LouisandSpri ngtield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Ill., and Louisiana. Mo.
LEAVE. ARRIVE.
*9:30 a.m. *8:00 p.m.
*9:45 a.m. *4:30 p.m
*9:30 a.m. *4:30 p.m, *4:10 p.m. *9:40 a.m.
+6:30 p.m. *4:30 ,m.
+9:00 p.m. 17:15 a.m.
$9:45 p.m. §7:15 a.m
SOUTH BEND DIVISION.
Trains lea.te South Bend—8 15 a m, 1110 a in.3.00 p m, G.30 p m.
Arrive at Niles—8.42 a m. 11 40 a m. 3,30 p m. 7.C0 p m
Leave Niles—(>.30 a in. 9.20 a m, 12.45 p tn. 4.35 pm.
Arrive at South Bene—7.05 a m. 9 55 a m. 1.20 pm. 5.10 pm.
Sunday Trains Leave South Bend 9.00 a m. 7.00 p m.
“	“ Arrive at Niles—9.30 am, 7.30 pm.
NOTRE DAME STATION.
Arrive—7.00 am. 9.50 a m, 1.15 p m, 5.05 pm.
Leave—8.20 a m. 11.15 a m. 3 05 p 111. 6.35 p m.
Sunday Trains.
A rrive—SOP a m. 5.30 p m	Leave —9.05 a m. 7.05 p m.
H. E. SARGENT, Gen'l Superintendent, Chicago, Illinois.
S. R. KING. Passenger and Freight Agent, South Bend.
B. CELESTINE, Agent, Not re Dame.
* Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only + Ex cept Saturday. E Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train'.
Pullman Palace Pining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass; and Ticket Agent,	Gen'l Superintendent,
CHICAGO.	CHICAGO.
LOUISVIL3LS IM. ALBANY & CHICAGO R.R.
On and after Sunday. Nov. 12, 1873, trains pass New Albany amt Salem Crossing, as follows: GOING NORTH.
Pass..............." 29 r.	M.
Freight............2.48	a.	3t.
Freight............8.57	p.	st.
Pass...............9.24 a.	m.
GOING SOUTH Pass...............8 23	p. M
Freight...........10.47	A.	31
Freight............4.45	a.	31
Pass...............11.23	a.	3i
H. N. CANIFF, Agent.