Jotre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vivo Quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 26, 1878.
Number 8.
Sonnet.
Who hath not treasured something of the past, The lost, the buried, or the far away ?
Twined with those heart-affeetions which outlast All save their memories—those outlive decay !
A broken relic of our childhood’s play, A faded flower, that long ago was fair— Mute token of a love that died untold!
Or silken curl, or lock of silvery hair—
The brows that bear them long since in the mould! Though these may call up griefs that else had slept, Their twilight sadness o’er the soul to bring;
Not every tear in bitterness is wept, While they revive the drooping flowers that spring Within the heart, and round its ruined temples cling.
—Exchange.
Webster, the Dramatist.
It is not by all a man does that he becomes distinguished; neither is it by all a man writes that he acquires a great name; nor is it by making a great preamble that an orator acquires celebrity. It depends on how he does it. Quintilian says that one of the Romans acquired a considerable reputation by only three orations. “ Insignem non immerito famam tribus orationibus meruit." Such was the case with the subject of this sketch. Born, we know not where; educated, in like manner. Of his parents he has left us no account, nor should we come to know himself had it not been that we were attracted by a streak'of what Shaks-peare calls “genius,” and which he describes when he says:, “Genius is like a circle in the water,
Which never ceaseth to enlarge itself,
Till, by broad spreading, it disperse to naught.” ’ {Henry VI, Act I, Scene 3.)
Now, it is a streak of that genius, even more striking in its character than in its power, that has reached us. Already we have said that of the personal history of John Webster we know nothing, and this is especially disappointing in the case of one whose works are marked with so strong an individuality as those of Webster. We merely know of him that he was a contemporary of Massinger, Ford, and the rest of the younger school of dramatists of the Elizabethan period.
What his early occupation was we are unable to assert, but we may safely conjecture that a considerable portion of his time was passed in working with the dramatists or improving upon the works of earlier authors. The works of Webster which have reached us are few,'and although we know that some others have been lost, there is no room for supposing that he was ever a voluminous writer.
To compare one so little known with that giant whose
genius is many-sided, would be taking rather a slippery stand. Yet among all the dramatists of that period, none so strongly reminds us of Shakspeare as Webster, and none probably who in a certain department stands so nearly on a par with Shakspeare. In sunshine and in gloom the latter is at home, whether in portraying the anguish of Lear or Othello, or in the bright fairy-land of the “Midsummer Night’s Dream.” Webster, on the other hand, is grave, and seldom mounts from a key that is profound and melancholy.
“I do love,” he says, “those ancient ruins.
We never tread upon them but we set
Our foot on some reverend history;
And questionless here in this open court, Which now lies open to the injuries	■
Of stormy weather, some men lie interred
Loved the churchyard so well, and gave so largely to it They thought it should have canopied their bones
• Till doom’s day. But all things have their end— Churches and cities which have diseases like to men Must have like death that we have.”
This is about his lightest mood, but in tragedy he is a consummate master. To accumulate images of horror he can ransack nature and the supernatural world, giving free play to an imagination and an ingenuity such as Shakspeare describes when he says:
“The poet’s eye in fine frenzy rolling
Doth glance from heaven to earth, from earth’to heaven;
And, as imagination bodies forth
The form of things unknown, the poet’s pen
Turns them to shape, and gives to airy nothing
A local habitation and a name.”
He accumulates images of horror without ever overstepping the line which fascinates by its horror and sadness from what disgusts; for with Webster the physical is always subordinate to the moral, the physical suffering a mere accessory to the mental anguish. His power in painting characters from a true tragic point of view is marvellous. He makes minds not only noble in suffering but ennobled by suffering. Full of a variety of images, yet always in the same key of sadness, his style is in harmony -with the subject which he chooses, always dignified and expressive.
The greatest of Webster’s works are “The White Devil, or Vittoria Corombona,” and “The Duchess of Malfi.” The mood in which the character of Vittoria is conceived and worked out makes the former a very remarkable play. “The Duchess of Malfi” is one of the most powerful plays in our language. The outlines of this story are simple. The widowed Duchess of Malfi is secretly married to her steward, a man, but for his birth, in every way worthy of her.
By this alliance she incurs the displeasure and draws down upon herself the vengeance of her two brothers. They succeed in their determination of effecting a separa
118
THE’ NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tion between husband and wife, banishing, the former and seizing and imprisoning the latter. They apply to her every kind of mental torture which ingenuity could devise, and ultimately caused herself and her children to be strangled in prison. Charles Lamb says, speaking of the skill and ingenuity displayed in this part of the play: “ Writers ■ of an inferior genius may ‘upon horror’s head horrors accumulate,’ but they cannot do this. They mistake quantity for quality, they ‘terrify babes with painted devils,’ but they know not how a soul is capable of being moved; their terrors want dignity; their afifrightments are without decorum. To move a horror skilfully, to touch a soul to the quick, to lay open fear as much as it can bear, to wean and weary a life till it is ready to drop, and then step in with mortal instruments and take its last forfeit—this only a Webster can do.”
Nor is the end of the two brothers less powerfully brought forth. One, Webster says, smitten with a madness caused by a guilty conscience, meets his doom. _ Finally both brothers fall by the hand of the man who had been their instrument in perpetrating their crimes. Extracts at best cannot well illustrate a play, yet we are tempted to give a few here, for it seems that Webster concentrates his power especially in the chararter of the Duchess. What can be more pathetic than this against their tyrannical hostility to her marriage ?
“ The birds that live in the field, On the wild benefit of nature, live . Happier than we : for they may choose their mates, And carol their sweet pleasures to the spring.”
She exclaims in the height of her misery:
“ Oh that it were possible we might
But hold some two days’ conference with the dead! From them I should know somewhat, I am sure, I never shall know here. I’ll tell thee a miracle.
I am not mad. Yet, to my cause of sorrow,
The heaven o’er my head seems made of molten brass, The earth of flaming sulphur; yet I am not mad.
I am acquainted with sad misery
As the tanned galley-slave is with his oar; Necessity makes me suffer constantly, And custom makes it easy.”
M. J. P.
Cola di Rienzi.
The removal of the Papal See to Avignon, in the early part of the fourteenth century, left Rome a prey to contending factions of nobles whose houses were fortified castles and whose armed dependants kept the cily in constant turmoil. The people, without a leader, found no redress from violence and license; as a consequence they became a demoralized rabble. The sight of these public woes, however, stirred up the indignation of one man, Nicolas, or as he is commonly called, Cola, di Rienzi. He had been well educated, was well acquainted with the history of ancient Rome, and was filled with an ardent admiration of the glories of that city. To such a degree did his enthusiastic admiration of the ancient institutions of the city and his patriotism carry him that he conceived the idea of raising the city to its former greatness and splendor. In order to do this he made it his study to conciliate both the nobles and the people, which he found to be the work of years.
When Clement the Sixth was raised' to the See of St. Peter, Rienzi was one of the deputation sent to Avigonn
to request the return of the Pope to Rome. While on this mission, he displayed such eloquence as to charm all who heard him, and though the Pope did not accede to the desire of the deputation, he was so delighted with the young orator as to desire to hear him daily. Rienzi, finding that the Pope would not return to Rome, now began in earnest his work. He made it his study to keep the nobles in ignorance of his real plans, while at the same time he organized the people. In order, however, to allay the suspicions of the Colonnas and other great families, he had to submit to many and great indignities. To use his own words, he “made himself a simpleton and a stage player, and was by turns serious or silly, cunning, earnest, and timid, as the occasion required.” During the day he occupied himself with his duties as a notary, and was as the rest of the Romans; the night was spent in fiery harangue or other works on the Aventine, with his audience of Roman citizens. The day for striking the blow for freedom advanced. On the day succeeding Ash-Wednesday, 1347, he gave notice of his intentions by posting on the doors of San Giorgio in Velabro, the scroll: “ Ere long Rome will return to her good estate.” On the feast of the following Pentecost, after having attended thirty Masses of the Holy Ghost, Rienzi issued forth at ten o’clock, in complete armor, surrounded by twenty-five sworn associates and one hundred men-at-arms. He was accompanied by the Bishop of Orvieto, the Pope’s vicar in the city. Amid the shouting multitude of citizens he ascended the capitol and there proclaimed the good estate and read the laws to govern the city. These decreed that a guard should be established for the protection of the citizens and of the shipping and commerce of the city; that the rights of the nobles to keep strongholds within the walls should be abolished; that all places of defence should be delivered up to the delegates of the people; that the poor should be assured of alms; and that the magistrates should administer justice according to law. Amid the acclamations of the people the laws were adopted, and Rienzi was declared the “ Tribune and Liberator of Rome.”
The nobles, though at first inclined to oppose Rienzi, were, by this sudden revolution, awed into submission, and all, even the haughty Stephen Colonna, who had threatened to throw the tribune from the window, were compelled to take the oath to obey the laws of the good estate. The change for the better in the city was marked and great. The last of the tribunes realized all the hopes centred in him by the people. He brought peace to a city long distracted by petty broils; he compelled the nobles to remain in their castles and not to molest the honest workman at his trade. By his efforts many other cities were induced to join Rome in forming the Republic of Italy. Embassies from several Christian sovereigns paid him deference, and Petrarch addressed him the ode, commencing “ Spirito gentH?' in which he proclaimed the tribune as greater than Camillus or the Scipios.
But Rienzi, after having done a work worthy the praise of all men, after having accomplished that which should place his name on the list whereon our Washington’s is the brightest, allowed himself to be carried away by ambition, and thus he fell. His vanity was extreme. Instead of continuing the good work he had begun, and by an austerity of life lead his people on in the way of happiness, he gave himself up to idle displays that caused his min Nothing was spared which would minister to his luxury; pomp and display were daily indulged in;.by processions,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	119
ceremonious displays and public spectacles, he sought to augment his own importance. Though he had declared himself the tribune of the people, he aped the airs of royalty. He caused himself and his wife to be waited upon by lords and ladies of the court; he had himself dubbed a knight in St. JohnLateran; he encircled his brow with seven crowns, and summoned the Emperor to appear before his tribunal. Not only this, but, as if crazed by his vanity, he summoned all potentates, civil or ecclesiastical, who dared to contest the prerogative of Rome to elect the Emperor, to appear in Rome the following Pentecost. In vain the Papal vicar attempted to interpose; his voice was silenced by the noise of trumpets and the shouts of the populace. Cleaving the air with his sword in three different directions before the assembled multitude, Rienzi cried out at every stroke: “This is mine.” But his splendid processions gradually palled upon the public taste, his arrogance and vanity brought upon him the hatred of the nobles, and the large expenditures from the public treasury to support his extravagance caused the populace to murmur. He had not so demeaned himself as to make his power lasting. The nobles joined together to accomplish his downfall, and with a large army appeared before the walls of the city. Rienzi attacked them, and, what was surprising, overcame them, and many of the noble families of the Colonna, Orsini, Sa-velli and others, perished in the fight. But this victory of Rienzi only delayed for a while his downfall. His pride became more arrogant; in his conceit he imagined himself to be the greatest of monarchs, and in his fondness for display passed his time in idle pageantries. His enemies in the mean time were not idle; he was excommunicated by the Pope; the people openly broke forth in murmurs at his extravagance and their increasing taxes. The people he endeavored to conciliate by restricting his extravagance and dropping his most ostentatious titles,but without success; for the freebooting Count of Minorbino having entered the city and fortified one of the palaces of the Colonnas in defiance of Rienzi, the tribune called the armed citizens to his assistance but met with no response. Finding himself deserted by all, he sorrowfully resigned the power he had held, and left Rome in a worse condition than it was before his attempt to better it. In the disguise of a monk he fled from Rome, and among the devout Franciscans in the fastnesses of the Apennines he spent twaand a half years as a tertiary of the Order. Sent back afterwards to Rome by the Pope, he entered as a Senator. But reverses had not changed his character. His vanity was still extreme, and his extortions caused the people to revolt against him. In vain did he attempt to soothe them, appearing before them with their banner in his hand. He was taken and led to the capitol stairs. There he attempted to address the people; but one of his enemies, fearing the effects of his eloquence, ran his rapier through Rienzi’s body. His head was cut off, and his body subjected to many indignities. Thus perished one who but for vanity might have been one of earth’s greatest men. He did a work worthy the admiration of all ages, but by his vain pretentions and arrogant assumption of power he more than spoiled the good he had done, and has left a name unworthy of honor.
—Be charitable to the poor. If you have little to give, give it with sweetness; if you have nothing else to give, give at least kind words; they cost only a little effort even under the most aggravating circumstances.
Singing Mice.
A few days ago I was invited by a medical friend to visit him at his house, and hear two musical mice sing a duet, the performance to begin punctually at 8 p. m. I had never heard a singing mouse, though I had read and been told a good deal of the vocal accomplishments the little animal occasionally displays; so I gladly availed myself of the opportunity, and duly arrived half an hour before the commencement of the concert My friend explained to me that every evening two little mice came out from behind the skirting-board in his dining-room, and sang for their supper of cheese, biscuit, and other muscine delicacies, which he took care to place on the carpet for them always at the same hour. One of them had received the name of “ Nicodemus ”—an allusion, I suppose, to a certain furtive visit by night—and the other was known as “ The Chirper.” To “ make assurance doubly sure ’’ that they would fulfil their engagement, and not disappoint me, their supper had been withheld from them on the evening previous to my visit.
True to time, just as the clock struck eight, and while we were conversing, there came from a corner of the fireplace, “ Chirp, chirp, chirp,” the same note being repeated several times at the rate of about thrice in a second, and gradually becoming louder. Presently a slight movement was visible about one end of the fender; and, after some hesitation, a little brown mouse came out upon the carpet, leisurely sniffed about for its accustomed meal, came close to my chair, looked wistfully up to my face, and I was introduced to “ The Chirper.” As a critic, I am bound to say .that “The Chirper’s” performance was of second-rate quality; but it was merely a kind of lever de rideau and the principal artist was yet to appear.
We had not to wait long. At the conclusion of “The Chirper’s” ineffective solo, a prolonged trill was faintly heard from behind the scenes, followed by others, each more audible than its predecessor; and ultimately “Nicodemus,” the soprano, came forth before the audience, perfectly self-possessed, and showing no signs of “stage-fear.”
The song to which the little creature gave utterance again and again in our full view was as sweet and varied as the warbling of any bird. It most resembled that of the canary, but the melody of the nightingale was occasionally introduced. Every note was clear and distinct, but withal so soft, so gentle, tender, and pianissimo, that I can only compare it to the voice of a bird muffled by being heard through a down pillow. In the room was a canary, whose cage was suspended in one of the windows. He had settled himself to roost, and his head was under his wing, but at the sound of “Nicodemus’” serenade he awoke, and listening attentively, and fantastically leaning alternately to right and left, peeped curiously down to the floor.
I learned that mouse and bird were intimately acquainted with each other, and that the former frequently visited his feathered friend and stayed to supper. Accordingly, while we looked on with interest and pleasure, “Nicodemus” climbed up the drawn curtains, entered the bird’s cage, and partook of the seed—the canary showing no symptom of disapprobation or disturbance, but merely from his perch peering down on his visitor in a ludicrously quaint and odd manner. During his supper-time “Nicodemus” obliged us, from the cage,, with several repetitions of his song, “The Chirper,” down below on the carpet, occasionally coming in with a monotonous con



120	THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC.
tralto accompaniment, and sometimes emitting a sound like the squeaking of a corkscrew through a cork. The two little songsters, having done their best to please us, were rewarded with all that mice could wish for as components of a feast, and, after selecting the portions they severally preferred, gracefully retired.
The singing of mice has been attributed to various causes: 1. It has been thought to proceed from disease of the lungs or vocal organs, and to be akin to the wheezing characteristic of asthma. 2. It has been propounded that the singers are always pregnant females; but this statement has been made on very insufficient data, and may, I think, be dismissed. 3. Dr. Crisp informed Mr. Buckland that he thought the singing was caused by a parasite in the liver; and Mr. Buckland tells me that he has at his museum at South Kensington a specimen in spirits in which this parasite is plainly visible in the liver of a singing mouse once alive in his possession. “ But,” he says, “ I am not at all sure that other mice also who are not musical have not this parasite.” This I believe to be the case, for it is well known that mice and rats, whether singers or not, are peculiarly liable (perhaps from their promiscuous feeding) to become the hosts of parasites such as hydatids in the liver, and trichinse in the muscles.
Of course, I can say nothing about the condition of the livers of the two mice I heard sing last week; but they did not act as if they were afflicted with disease of the liver, or any other organ. Brisk and vivacious in all their movements, darting now and then back to their hidingplace, as if to keep open their means of retreat while foraging, they looked the impersonation of vigorous health and bright activity; and, like every one else who has heard them, I feel quite sure that their song—espec-cially that of “Nicodemus”—is not involuntary, nor the result of any disease of the respiratory organs, but an intentional and conscious utterance of a series of notes in musical sequence. As Mr. Buckland says (loo. cit.), “ The song is a genuine song, as good and as musical as that of a lark on a fine summer morning.”
Prof. Owen tells us that the anatomy of the mouse is very similar to that of birds; and all who have seen this little rodent in the act of singing have noticed that the throbbing of its throat is like that of a bird in full song, and that it then elevates its snout as a bird does its beak.
Whether the singing of mice may be due to an imitative faculty which leads them to mimic the vocalization of birds, I am not prepared to say. There is great apparent probability in favor of this supposition, but there is, also, strong evidence against it; because well-authenticated instances have been adduced of mice bred in captivity, and apart from any caged bird, having exhibited capability of song.
It is remarkable that in almost every case of a singing mouse having been seen as well as heard, it has been described as very small, much browner than the common gray or slate-colored mouse, and as having very large ears This exactly applies to my little entertainers, “Nicodemus” and “ The Chirper.” They are both very tiny mice, their coats are very brown (not so much so as to be fawncolored), and their ears are abnormally big. I should be tempted to regard the singing mouse as a peculiar variety, if this idea had not been contradicted by the recorded fact that one out of a litter of common mice has become a “ cantatore ” or “ cantatrice,” while the rest have remained incapable of “ favoring with a song.”
The fact is, that although singing mice are not very rare-they are not common enough to have permitted any competent zoSlogist to note their birth and parentage, observe their habits in life, and dissect them after death in a series so complete as to give assurance of scientific accuracy.
I was amused on reading in a paragraph in Nature, of the 25th ult., that, in reply to a letter from Dr. Berdier in La Nature, affirming that mice sing, “a distinguished herpetologist, M. Lataste, suggested that Dr. Berdier might have made confusion with the singing of a raniform batrachian, the Bombinator igneus; but Dr. Berdier said there was no marshy ground near the room in which he had heard it, and he stuck to his assertion.” There certainly was no “ raniform batrachian, Bombinator igneus," in the comfortable dining-room in Gower Street, where I was introduced to “Nicodemus”and “The Chirper,” and one would suppose that the instances of mice having been seen, as well as heard, singing, have been sufficiently numerous and well attested to render unnecessary so extravagant an explanation as that of the “distinguished herpetologist.” The subject was, however, regarded as worthy of being brought before the Societe d’Acclimatation at its last meeting, when M. Brierre confirmed the observa tion of Dr. Berdier, and stated that he had himself heard mice sing, though not more recently than 1851-53.—Henry Lte in “ Land and 'Water."
The Boy Crusade.
“ In every child is found the full man ”; or, as Wordsworth puts it, " the child is father to the man.” This Christian axiom has always been admired because of its truth. Children there have been who in war, in the sciences, in civil life, have shown the energy and not un-frequently the reason of full-grown men.
That which is developed most quickly in children is impassioned instinct and the sentiment of grand duties. Hesitation is often the fruit of a heart that begins to corrupt or is already slightly corrupted. The right heart of a child goes straight to the end which appears to him glorious, or noble, or holy.
One of the most remarkable examples of what we have just said is found in that singular fact which shone forth in the thirteenth century—the century of charity and generous deeds—and which is called The Crusade of the Children.
In the year 1213, the great Pope Innocent III made an earnest appeal to all Christians to assist the Latin Emperors of Constantinople to deliver the Christians in the Holy Land and protect the boundaries of Europe threatened by the children of Mahomet. But the powers of Germany, France, and the other Catholic countries employed their armies in intestine strifes instead of responding to the appeal of the Sovereign Pontiff. Then suddenly the spectacle was presented of children, in default of their fathers, aroused at the perils of the Christian world and taking up the cross. Thirty thousand were raised in France and twenty thousand in the other European states. Escaping the vigilance of their parents, they armed themselves as best they could, proclaimed themselves the soldiers of Jesus Christ, and bravely took the road to the Holy Land. It was in a sense an epidemic movement, if we may be permitted thus to name so noble a resolution; and shameful is it that one who has written the history of this great
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
121
festation for the chronicles of the time gives it but a brief notice. This short account we shall repeat. These fifty thousand children, from twelve to sixteen years of age, were persuaded in their pious zeal that since grown men had not raised themselves from their stupor, God wished to make use of children for the deliverance of the Holy Sepulchre—“Give us, Lord Jesus, the Holy Cross!” was their war-cry.
Young clerics and the children of nobles formed part of the band: but vagabonds were joined with them, and because of the excesses which they committed in Germany almost all the young crusaders perished of misery and fatigue. In the other countries they were despoiled by robbers.
Of the thirty thousand children that were enrolled in France, a very large number reached Marseilles, there to embark. Two bandits, who had followed them, and who passed for honest merchants, when they were but pirates, promised to pass them gratuitously to Palestine, and caused them to embark on seven large vessels. Two of these were shipwrecked; the five others landed at Egypt. Immediately the two pirates unmasked themselves; they pretended that they were without resources, and sold the poor children to the Saracens.
They had rushed into the crusade determined to shed their blood for the cause of Jesus Christ, and eagerly desirous of martyrdom. This happiness was theirs; for, firm in their faith, they almost every one died violently, rather than deny their Divine Master. Some, not less happy, converted to the Christian Faith those by whom they had been bought. The grand example given by those children bore its fruits. Whilst they were perishing gloriously in Egypt, the Council of Lateran, convoked by Innocent III, proclaimed a new general crusade in which the kings and the grandees of earth delayed not to avenge the little martyrs.
Art, Music and Literature.
—A “Life and Letters of Balzac” is in preparation in England by Evelyn D. Jerrold.
—Joaquin Miller’s “Songs of Italy ” has for its English companion Mr. Miller’s “ Songs of Far-Away Lands.”
—Between eight and nine thousand copies of Tennyson’s works were sold by one publishing house alone, at the late book-trade sale.	.
—A story by George Macdonald, the scene of which is chiefly laid in the north of Scotland, has begun as a serial in a Manchester and Glasgow paper.
—Dante as a field for literary study has not been neglected in the past seven years. More than five hundred and fifty publications concerning him were issued.
—Twelve thousand different works have been published in regard to the American war. A good deal of this war literature first saw the light in Europe, but the bulk appeared in the United States.
—The Boston Handel and Haydn Society announce: Nov. 24, Verdi’s Requiem; Dec. 22, “Messiah”; Feb. 9, “ Hymn of Praise,” etc.; April 11, Bach’s Passion music; April 13, “ Judas Maccabmus.”
—Pierre Vidal, best-known and most eccentric of Pro-ven^al poets, married a Greek lady of Cyprus, whom he always deelared to be the niece of the Greek Emperor, and through her he laid claim to the imperial throne.
—The vacancy left by Mr. Jacobson in the Mendelssohn Quintet Club of Boston will be filled during the coming season by Mr. Bernard Listemann, formerly Mr. Thomas’ concertmaster, and last year first violin of the Philharmonic Club.
—The house in which Corneille lived, near Rouen, will be
restored and furnished with relics of the great poet; but the house in Paris where he lived and died must yield like everything else in Paris, sacred or profane, to the demands of a new street.
—Prince Don Allessandro Torlonia has written in the Italian language the history of Lake.Fucino from the times of Julius Ctesar to the present day. Of this interesting publication only one hundred copies will be printed and none will be sold.
—Capoul has rented the Salle Ventadour in Paris, and intends bringing out there the Marquis d’lvry’s “Amants de Verone” at his own risk. He sings the part of Romeo, and Miss Heilbron will be the Juliet. This is his first appearance in ths character of a manager.
—Miss Sallie Reber, of New York, has been engaged by Maurice Strakosch to sing for a number of months with August Wilhelmj during the American tour of that great violinist. Miss Reber has achieved many vocal successes, both at Gilmore’s and Thomas’ New York concerts.
—M. Paul Feval, the celebrated novelist whose remarkable conversion caused such sensation in literary circles a few years ago, is engaged in writing a series of Catholic tales for the Uniters under the title of “ Corbeille d’His-toires,” and which will as soon as finished appear in an English dress.
—Twenty-one of the early poems of Longfellow, all of which except five have been rejected by the author from his published works, have appeared in London in a small volume. Seventeen of them were printed originally in The United States Literary Gazette wheh the author was 18 or 19 years of age.	"
—It is said that §30,000 have been raised in Washington, D. C., toward a music-hall, similar to the Cincinnati MusicHall, and that §200,000 more are promised. One prominent citizen,'identified with various munificent bequests, —said to be W. W. Corcoran,—has promised §50,000 in aid of the enterprise.
—Edward Remenyi, the Hungarian violinist, will make his first appearance in America at Steinway Hall, on Thursday evening, Oct. 31. He will be assisted by a complete concert troupe, and an orchestra under the baton of Mr. G. Carlberg. His principal performance at the opening concert will be Joachim’s Grand Hungarian Concerto.
—The Athenceum says: The extraordinary persistency with which unsuccessful candidates present themselves year after year at the Chinese competitive examinations is curiously illustrated by certain edicts in the Pekin Gazette of last year, in which honorary degrees are conferred on forty-two* candidates who were finally plucked at the age of 90 and upward, and one hundred and thirty-six who gave up the struggle when betwen 80 and 90.
—The whole of Beethoven’s Symphonies, including the Ninth, for which a chorus was specially engaged, have been given in chronological order at the Covent Garden Promenade Concerts, one on each Monday evening. The rendering of these works has been taken advantage of by many to whom the opportunities of hearing orchestral music of this class are unfortunately very few in London, and a very general desire has been expressed for a repeti tion of these performances in the future.
—The Cincinnati Enquirer says: “The great German Musical Festival which was to have taken place in Springer Music-Hall Sept. 26, 27, and 28, but which was postponed for several good reasons, it is now announced will be held Nov. 14,15, and 16, next. Almost every German singing society in the city will take part, and are now industriously at work on the choruses and solos, as well as the instrumental parts. The chorus will consist of over 1,000 voices. The prospects now are that the Festival will be a grand success, musically and financially.”
—The new bells in the northern tower of St. Paul’s Cathedral, London, were chimed for the first time ten days ago. There are twelve in all, and the tones are rich and musical. The largest bell is the gift of the corporation, and the rest have been furnished by the Grocers’ Company, the Clothworkers, the Fishmongers, the Tailors, the Salters, the Turners, the Drapers, and Lady Burdet-Goutts. A crowd quickly gathered in the church-yard at the first
122
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
sound of the peal, and remained looking up at the open masonry and its concave roof, which, it is now evident, were thoughtfully and scientifically planned by Wren with an ultimate view to the reception of bells.
—The making of a pianoforte in a first-class factory, as traced in the Scientific American, begins with a careful selection and seasoning of many kinds of wood. After the completion of the case comes the important work of placing the sounding board in position. On the proper disposition and grading of the bark depends the equality of vibration, so much desired. Next, the case is varnished and polished by hand, being afterward taken to the stringing room, where only highly-skilled workmen are employed. Finally, all the parts are adjusted, and the tuner takes the instrument in hand. The iron frames require careful casting, and the wood used in the “actions” is usually seasoned ten years. Exact uniformity is aimed at throughout, for on that largely depends the quality of the piano. Some of the machinery is as delicate as that for watchmaking.
—The New York Sun says: “As the Sun intimated some time ago, the departure of Theodore Thomas from the musical field so long worked by him in the East is not likely to be an unassuaged misfortune. To cut down a time-honored tree-is no guarantee that new growthswill not spring up with increased vigor. Already there is great activity in the symphonic arena, and the immediate promise is that we shall have three simultaneous series of orchestral entertainments under rival conductors. Dr. Dam-rosh, Mr. Neuendorff, and Mr. Carlberg have all come to the front with laudable determination to fill Mr. Thomas’ place to the best of their ability, and, instead of the itineracy of our distinguished friend, now of Cincinnati, who made New York one of the links in his continental chain, we shall have three local organizations—one at Steinway Hall, under the energetic Dr. Damrosch; one at the Academy of Music, under Mr. Neuendorff; and the other at Chickering Hall, under the erudite Carlberg.
Scientific Notes.
—Mr. Lewis Swift, of Rochester, writes to Nature confirming the observations of Prof. Watson with regard to the new planet Vulcan.
—Several correspondents of Nature have in their possession specimens of white crows, pheasants, sparrows, starlings, and one has a “ pale-rose ” bullfinch.
—It has been discovered that wasps and bees when subjected to chloroform invariably bring their stings to their mouths and suck the drop of poison at the end.
—There has been a dispute in the French Academy of Sciences about the phonograph, a certain number of the members contending that the instrument was exhibited by a ventriloquist.
—The British Museum authorities have at last, thanks to the efforts of Mr. Hormuzd Rassam, supported by Sir A. H. Layard, obtained a firman in some degrees suitable for the thorough exploration of Mesopotamia.
—The scheme for an observatory on the summit of Mount Etna is again pushed in the English and scientific journals. The atmosphere there is peculiarly clear, and it is thought some important results might be arrived at by a series of daily observations.
—The prospectus of an American microscopical journal, to appear in October, and to be continued quarterly, has just been issued. It is under the editorship of Romeyn Hitchcock, of New York, and is intended to contain original articles by prominent writers, and notices of the more important publications on the subject appearing elsewhere.
—Recent borings made in different parts of North Germany have proved beyond denial that the assertion made by several eminent geologists, that a mighty deposit of salt stretches from the Lueneburger Heide to the coast of the Baltic, is perfectly correct. The deposit begins near Lueneburg, passes underneath the Elbe, and extends right across the Grand Duchy of Mecklenburg. Another branch goes in the direction of the Duchy of Holstein, via Legeberg to
Elmshorn and Heide. Borings made at Luebtheen, near Hagenow, by order of the Mecklenburg Government, have now reached a depth of 456 metres; the basis, however, is not yet reached.
—Reiniger of Stuttgart proposes an ingenious substitute for illuminated tower-clocks. It is no more nor less than the use of a magic lantern, sometimes employed for street advertising. A small lantern could be so arranged as to throw the picture of a common watch or chronometer upon a suitable white screen in places much frequented at night. The movement of the hands would be quite as distinct as those of a real clock with a transparent face and strong light behind it; while it would have the advantage over many of these that the axis to which the hands are attached would not throw a shadow often mistaken for one of the hands themselves. -The project recommends itself to smaller cities unable to bear the expense of a costly tower clock with illuminated face.	'
• —A Posen farmer points out in the Landwirth the great value of swine as exterminators of field mice and other vermin. The terrible plagues of mice now so prevalent in many parts of Germany are in great measure due, he insists, to the present system of keeping swine penned up, instead of allowing them the range of the fields; and he points out that the animals are sometimes seen in the act of snapping up and devouring a good-sized mouse. They have, it seems, keen scent for the nests, and grub them up most artistically. In fields that have been cropped with lupins or oats the swine, when turned in, invariably select the spots where the ricks have stood to grub in, not, says the farmer, in search of stray grains that may lie there, but because these particular places are swarming with mice-nests.
—In the stormy part of the year, this last winter, a Peninsular and Oriental steamer encountered rough Weather, and, as often happens at such times, many sea-gulls hovered near the ship and even came on board. One allowed itself to be caught, and it was found that it had a fishbone stuck in the eye in such a position as not absolutely to destroy the sight, but penetrating an inch into the flesh of the bird and projecting an inch and a half. It might have had a fight with a fish or got transfixed seeking its prey.. The doctor of the ship took the bird, extracted the bone, applied a soothing remedy to the wound, and let it go. It flew away, but returned the next day, again allowing itself to be caught. The doctor examined the wound, which was progressing favorably, applied more of the remedy and let the bird go a second time. It flew several times around the ship, and then departed and returned no more.
—W. L. Dudley writes to Nature: “I am able to confirm the accounts given by Mr. Simson in your last number as to the probability of the hearing of insects. When travelling on the River Magdalena, New Granada, in 1861, the mode of which is by a long boat, arched over with bamboo, on which the sailors (bogas), passing from one extremity to the other, propel it with long poles, hugging the river bank, accompanied with wild cries and execrations, I observed on several occasions that these cries suddenly ceased, a dead silence following, and on inquiring the cause they pointed to nests high up in the trees, whispering the word vispa (wasp). As the bogas pursue their avocations in a state of semi-nudity, they have the greatest dread of these insects, fearing to speak aloud, as their only alternative if attacked by them, is to plunge into the stream, where alligators abound. The wasp is long, slender, and black in color.”
—It has long been known that flowers were necessary to insects; but it is only within the last few years that it has been discovered that insects are quite as necessary to flowers. There are, however, but two or three tribes of insects whose visits are serviceable to flowers in the way of fertilization. The Lepidoptera or butterfly tribe are especially so, and the moths flying by night and visiting such flowers as are only opened at that time, are furnished with a trunk or proboscis which sucks up the honey in its fluid state, and in seeking it the insect becomes covered with pollen, which it transfers from flower to flower. In this way a single insect will fertilize many flowers. Besides being attracted by the color of flowers, insects seem capable of the appreciating taste and smell, just as the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	123
higher animals do. What flowers are to insects, fruits are to birds and mammals. Both are colored, scented, and sweet; but they have acquired their various allurements for the attraction of widely different creatures.—Chamber's Journal.
—The testimony of previous explorers of New Guinea pointing to the probable existence of a large quadruped in that island, is strengthened by the statement of-Mr. Goldie that on his recent journey there he saw tracks like the footprints of a horse, with the addition of four toes. In view of the absence of large mammals from Australia, their occurrence in New Guinea was hardly to be expected, as in the opinion of geologists that island was formerly a part of the great Australian Continent. Wallace in his well-known work on the geographical distribution of animals, says: “New Guinea is very deficient in mammalia as compared with Australia, though this apparent poverty may in part depend on our very scanty knowledge.” It has been suggested that the unknown four-footed beast may be a tapir, and this conjecture does not seem unreasonable. A characteristic species of tapir is met with in the larger Malayan islands, and this animal might easily be mistaken for the rhinoceros, of which Captain Moresby thought he discovered traces in New Guinea.
—Mr. Hall has finally adopted for the two moons of Mars the names suggested by Mr. Madan, of Eton, England, namely, Deimos for the outer satellite, and Phobos for the inner satellite. From an exhaustive review of the various observations of these minute bodies with the great Washington refractor, he also deduces the elements of their orbit.'.', and compares them with those obtained by other observers. Deimos revolves around Mars in 1.262429 mean solar days, and Phobos .3189244 of a day. Both of them move very nearly in the plane of the equator of Mars. The hourly motion of Phobos, as seen from the surface of Mars, is 47°.O33, and on account of its rapid angular movement, and its nearness to the planet, this satellite will present a singular appearance to any inhabitants of Mars. It will rise in the west and set in the east, and will meet and pass the outer moon, whose hourly motion is only 11.882. The distance of these satellites trom the centre of Mars are, for Deimos 14,500 miles, and for Phobos 5,800 miles. The inner satellite is the brighter of the two, but more difficult to see on account of its closeness to the planet. The size of the satellites is not well known, though it is certain they are very small. From comparative measurements of their light, Prof. Pickering, of Harvard, estimated Deimos to be six miles in diameter, and Phobos seven miles. Other observers, however, have been led to place them at from ten to fourteen miles. The mass of Mars, as determined from the motions of the satellites, is the 1-3,093,500 part of that of the sun.
Books and Periodicals.
—We have received from Jansen, McClurg & Co., 117 and 119 State Street, Chicago, “Growth of the Steam Engine,” “Ancient Literature,” “Scientific Memoirs,” “Hamlet,” “Remorse” and Nos. 17, 18 and 19 of the “Franklin Square Library,” all of which will receive attention in a week or two.
—A bright, gossipy article, some of which is made up of personal recollections, on the once famous Georgiana Lady Chatterton, is the leading article in the November Catholic 'World. Another article, this time wholly personal, deals with two living characters of far more importance —that on “Dr. Newman and Dr. Pusey.” The very title is sufficient to attract readers, and they will not be disappointed in the graphic sketches presented to them of these two famous men. “The Protestant Element in English Poetry” is likely to create divided opinions among Catholics and Protestants. “Some Barriers between Capital and Labor ” deals with one of the gravest subjects of the day. “Canova” gives us a delightful and appreciative glimpse of the greatest sculptor of the century. Very promising and charming is the first letter “ From an Irish Country-House.” “FourviSres” is a sketch of quite other scenes and life, yet equally charming. The articles on “Plain Chant” grow in strength and interest. The fiction
this month consists of “ Ballymurry,” a capital Irish story, and “ Pearl,” each instalment of which only whets the appetite for more. The poetry and the literary criticisms are of the usual standard of excellence of this magazine.
—The present number of the American Catholic Quarterly Review opens with an interesting article on “The Catholic University Question in Ireland and England.” The subject is well treated and evinces much thought and observation. After briefly remarking that the Catholics in the United States are on the eve of being blessed with a University of their own, the writer passes on to say that the Church, as the mother and fosterer of the arts and sciences, has always encouraged the establishing and founding of universities where her doctrine would be taught, and where youth might drink at the fountain of truth and knowledge. It was under her guidance, the writer goes on to say, that the Universities of Paris, Boulogne, Oxford and Cambridge rose to the zenith of their glory. The reasons which the writer gives for the establishing of Catholic universities are well grounded and evidently capable of convincing the most prejudiced of their special importance. The writer then enters upon the subject proper, which he treats in a pleasing and forcible manner. The second article is entitled “ The Position of the Blessed Virgin in Catholic Theology,” and is from the pen of the Most Rev. James Gibbons, D. D. The questions, why we honor the Blessed Virgin, and why we invoke her, are discussed at length. This worthy article, which should be read by every Catholic, is a glowing tribute to the influence which the Mother of our Lord exercises throughout the Christian world. “Sir Thomas More,” by Rev. M. J. McLaughlin, is a readable article and cannot fail to elicit the attention of the readers of the Reoieio. Rev. J. M. Degni, S. J., contributes an excellent article on “The Total Solar Eclipse of July 28:h, 1878.” Another contribution is that of Rev. Aug. J. Thebaud, S. J., who treats in a masterly manner “Ritualism in its Relation to Catholicity on the one Hand, and to Protestantism on the Other.” “The Jewish Element in the Church a Proof of its Apostolic Origin ” is a thoughtful article, by John ■ Gilmary Shea, LL.D. “Meteorological Aspects of the Pacific Coast,” by X. C. S. P., contains much valuable information, and should be read by every lover of science. An article entitled “Cathedral Chapters as Adapted to the United States,” is the contribution of Rev. S. B. Smith, D. D., author of the “Elements of Ecclesiastical Law.” The article is good in its kind and well written. “The Labor Question,” by M. F. S., is the concluding article. This allabsorbing question is discussed by the writer in a calm and serious manner; some of the views taken, however, and conclusions arrived at, may in some instances be contested; but, on the whole, it is an able article, and will be read by all with pleasure. The Revieio closes with the usual booknotices, and is in every way fully up to its former standard.
—An old seaman, at a religious meeting recently held in New York, in relating his experience, stated that when at sea in storms and tempests he had often derived great consolation from that beautiful passage of Scripture, “Faint heart never won fair lady.”
—A young composer once presented himself before Rossini, to know which of two musical compositions that he had just produced would seem preferable to the great maestro. Rossini seated himself at the piano and carefully played the first through. On finishing it he rose and walked away, coolly saying: “I like the other best”
—Centuries ago Walter Le Brun, farmer, at the Strand, in Middlesex, England, obtained of the king a piece of land in the parish of St. Clement, whereon to erect a forge, being bound to pay yearly therefor six horseshoes and sixty-one hobnails. In due time the ground came to be granted to the Mayor and corporation of London, and the Warden of Standards, in his report just issued, mentions that the six ancient horse-shoes and the accompanying sixty-one hobnails rendered annually to the Crown by the corporation of London have been transferred to the Queen’s Remembrancer’s office, as all duties relating to the rendering of such services were by the Act 22 and 23 Viet., cap. 21, sec. 43, directed to be performed at the office of the Queen’s Remembrancer.

124
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Wotare Oame, October 36, 1878.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twelfth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, 81.50 Per -Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Annual Retreat.
The annual retreat for the students will probably soon take place, and we trust that all are thoroughly alive to the importane of making it well. A retreat is a breathingspell—a time set apart for reflection on matters to which none can be indifferent. Education when properly understood is not simply the development of the intellectual faculties of man, but likewise the development of his moral nature. It has well been said that the education of the intellect alone makes us worse than men, but that the education of the intellect and heart conjoined makes us what God intended us to be, something stamped after His own image and likeness. The student lives not on the bread of science alone; in common with all other men, his spiritual nature has wants and longings which proficiency in studies, no matter how great it may be, can never satisfy. It is therefore to minister to these wants and longings, to devote special attention to the education of the heart and the development of the moral nature, that the retreat has become in all Catholic institutions a regular college exercise. That much of the success of the scholastic year depends on the manner in which it is made, on the profit which students derive from it, needs no demonstration, “fdnless the Lord build the house,” says the Royal Prophet, “ in vain do they labor that build it”; so also may we add, unless the Lord bless the efforts of the student, in vain are all the labors which he may impose upon himself. Now a retreat made with the proper dispositions is precisely a means of drawing down on the labors of each and every student the blessings from above without which we know that these labors would be fruitless. The great Bishop Dupanloup, recently deceased, than whom no man in Europe more thoroughly understood the educational needs of the age, was accustomed to say that a good retreat at the beginning of the year was an infallible sign that all would go well till the end. Only a few years ago, in alluding to certain memorable triumphs achieved by the cause of
religion and morality in France, he attributed much of the credit of them to the success of a students’ retreat twenty-five years before in the seminary of Orleans.
Since the opening of the term, all those who are in any way connected with the management of the College have had only words of praise for the exemplary deportment of the students, and the admirable spirit with which they are animated; the retreat is therefore looked forward to with not a little anxiety, since, if it is entered into and carried out with the proper dispositions, all will feel assured that the year ”78—’79, will be one to be long and favorably remembered in the annals of Notre Dame. The time is short: let the most be made of it. No grumbling or faultfinding of any kind, even though, as is generally the case, nothing may be meant by it. Especially no putting off— as sometimes happens—all serious thoughts about the business of the retreat till the last moment. From the opening exercise it should clearly appear how firmly all are convinced that the retreat is one of the most important events of a college career, perhaps of a lifetime. More particularly for those whose college days are drawing to a close, and who are soon to take their place in the busy scenes of the world, should it be a season of serious and prayerful reflection. They cannot close their eyes to the fact that in this, as in other matters, their example will be powerful in influencing others for good or evil. Besides, they should remember that happiness and usefulness depend on one’s occupying the place which Providence has marked out for him. The choice of a state in life will soon be forced upon them. It is therefore for them a solemn duty during these few days of retreat to seek the	V
light to guide them in selecting the station in which God wishes them to be, and to deserve the graces necessary in order to discharge its duties faithfully.
Good Manners.
In all the walks of life persons may be found who have the art of making themselves agreeable to everyone with whom they come in contact. The presence of such persons is always looked for with joy, as they carry with them something of a pleasing nature, something well adapted to render themselves not only agreeable but also a source of pleasure from which poor human nature receives not a little benefit. You may go into the first society of the land, where wealth, beauty, and fashion go hand in hand, and there you will find persons who are loved, honored and revered solely on account of their gentleness and amiability; and there too you will find those whose presence is always a sore, who are looked upon and felt as a hindrance to enjoyment and to innocent pleasure, because of their disagreeable ways, their haughty and disdainful spirit, etc. On entering the society of the middle classes the same relative distinction is found: persons who shine forth as brilliant stars, imparting rays of benignity to all around them; and, on the other hand, those who are impertinent, fault-finding, and of a disposition not a little difficult to analyze, who never have a word of encouragement or of kindness; nothing, in fine, that gives a moment’s pleasure or happiness will ever escape their lips.
It is, indeed, noticeable that those who are pleasing in their manners, courteous, affable, and agreeable are always looked upon as ornaments to the society in which they move,’and are, too, the cause of much good not only in a-

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
125
material but also in a spiritual sense; through them manygood effects are brought about, for harmony and order follow in their train.
It is the man whose boyhood has not been neglected in regard to politeness, in regard to the cultivation of good manners, etc., that is sure to succeed in business, whatever employment he may adopt. Take, for instance, any two men of equal educational advantages and possessing the same amount of wealth and talent, and you will have, in all probability, the one who is good-natured, obliging, of a pleasing address, always having a cheerful word, of gentle and affable manners, succeed the better. And if the other be not entirely unsuccessful it is because of chance rather than anything else. In great cities, and particularly in New York, it is the custom with merchants to employ none others as clerks, book-keepers and assistants than those of a well-regulated exterior. They want polite men, and they are, too, bound to have them, for they know that persons, even though the good reputation of the house may have a great influence upon them, do not wish to purchase their goods from men who are rude and vulgar, as far at least as their exterior is concerned. It is, then, of importance for young men to cultivate politeness, so that they may be fit to fill well the position to which they have been called.	■
There are many persons in this wide world of ours who labor under a gross mistake when they think or assert that all poor people are unmannerly by the very fact of their not receiving what they are pleased to term a liberal education. It does not follow as a logical consequence that because they are poor they are not gentlemen; riches can-• not make a gentleman of anyone; neither can poverty of itself make the contrary character. And although educa-• tion, according to the very etymology of the term, tends to draw out and cultivate the mind by enlarging its capacities, there may be found hundreds of men learned as far as books are concerned, but not .gentlemen, because of their want of a special training in this respect. They receive I their training in Godless schools, where they are never (	taught to love, honor, or respect their parents, where they
’	do not learn to be meek and humble and to bear patiently
the crosses that God may be pleased to send them in this world. They care for nobody, but follow their own, yes, lofty ideas, instilled into their minds from the very moment ■	they enter the	halls of these institutions; and what is the
.	result of all this ? Do we not see every day in the daily
f	papers a long	list of the most revolting crimes, suicides,
i	and the like ?	Those Godlessly educated young people get
tired of life, and, as becomes men of merely material refine-'• ment and knowledge, they take away their own lives, and thus destroy their poor immortal souls of whose value they had never learned. This is the result of an education without God, education that shapes the mind but never attempts to form the heart, never draws out those tender and loving qualities that lie hidden within.
. Education in the true sense of the word is the formation of man, as it implies not only book-learning but also that learning which makes a man a Christian and a gentleman; it has reference to the manner in which we should conduct ourselves as regards our morals, and our behaviour both in i public and in private life; in a word, we should understand by education that those who have acquired it should know ,	how to think rightly, speak rightly, and act rightly, and
j	where any of these is wanting the education is deficient in
essential points. God has sent us into the world to do His i will in all things, and how can we know how to serve so
great a Master unless we receive a Christian education, unless we are taught both by word and example the Divine truths and the way to save our souls? We have a soul to save, and it is our duty to save it; but in order to fulfil our duty we must know what that duty is, and here again rests an obligation upon parents to see that their children are instructed and well grounded in the doctrines of the Church; for a neglect of duty on their part is criminal, and something for which they will have to give a strict account before the judgment-seat. If they neglect to instruct or have their children instructed on this head, they are accountable before God for it; and if their children neglect to learn and know what God demands of them, if they have a chance and abuse it, they also sin grievously, and are accountable to God for all the bad actions .that under such a plea of ignorance they may have committed. Hence we see that it is no easy matter to be charged with the education of youth, and parents should be very particular as to doing their duty towards their children, so that nothing may be wanting on their part to the moral, intellectual and physical development of those given to them by God. An educated man, then (according to the proper sense of the word education), must be a gentleman; but not vice versa.
Many parents think that it is not necessary for their children to know any more of the; Christian doctrine than that which is contained in their little Catechism. Absolutely speaking, it is true; nothing more is required of them; but, then, is it not important for every person to know well the religion he professes, and the more especially in this country where there are so many conflicting beliefs ? Some believe in this, others in that; and others again don’t believe in anything, .simply because from their earliest infancy they were never taught to know God, to love God, or keep His Commandments; religious training in their-regard was entirely ignored, and the consequence is that they believe in no religion, which is the same as saying or believing that God demands no more of them than He does of the irrational animals that roam the plains. This seems to us to be repugnant to reason, and yet does it not take place, both theoretically and practically, every day ?
Parents, then, in order to fulfil their duty towards their children should provide for them, so far as they are able, a truly Christian education. It will not do for them to send their children to schools where the doctrines of the Church of Christ are ignored, and where that love, reverence and obedience which all children should have for their parents are laughed at, and a spirit of independence, haughtiness and arrogance inculcated in their stead; where children are compelled, in a manner, to despise their parents, to despise everything holy and good, to contemn all moral restraint, and build up in their hearts a throne on which is seated Self-love and everything which debars a man from being a humble follower of Christ. Christian morality, good manners, etc., are entirely wanting to such persons. The principle of politeness, which is, after all, Heaven-born charity, has never been inculcated into their minds in youth, and hence, although they may when arrived at manhood enter their respective callings as smart and materially learned men, they will never, unless the grace of God works a great change in their hearts, be considered as Christian gentlemen, full of love and respect for God, for their parents, and for their fellow-beings.
—Work and pray, pray and work—this is the secret of life.
126
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Late Bishop Bosecrans.
Personal.
Catholic journalism has sustained a severe blow in the death of an accomplished and learned Bishop, the Rt Rev. S. H. Rosecrans, of Columbus, Ohio, and the Catholic Columbian, of which he was the editor, has the sympathy of the press in its great loss. The Right Rev. Prelate had taken charge of the fourth or editorial page of that most excellently conducted paper, and had made it his own. That page was an index of his character, and represented Bishop Rosecrans’s individuality as much as the editorial page of the Freeman is peculiarly McMaster’s. His short, crispy paragraph could be distinguished, as it floated from paper to paper, from all others; so much so, that, whether credited or not to the Columbian, the reader could tell whence it came. He was not much given to fine or many words, or to grand figures. He used few words, but he used them well. His figures were all used to illustrate, never simply to adorn.
The news of his death comes with particular sadness just at this time. Three days before, he had lost his Vicar-General by death. On the day preceding his death, the grand Cathedral erected through his exertions was dedicated with great display. Monday morning’s papers brought us long accounts of the brilliant ceremonies of the consecration; Tuesday’s announced his death.
It seems that great excitement was occasioned among the Catholic population on Monday by the report that Rt. Rev. Bishop Rosecrans was dying. Upon further inquiry it was found that he has been taken seriously ill Monday night with hemorrhage of the lungs. In the course of a few hours he lost more than half a gallon of blood. The attack terminated in death at midnight on Monday. A few days ago he was prostrated by the bursting of a blood-vessel in one of his temples, from which he lost a large quantity of blood; it is supposed that the excitement incident to the Cathedral consecration on Sunday was the cause of the attack.
The death of Bishop Rosecrans was unexpected by most of his friends, for they had been assured that his symptoms were favorable to recovery. When it became known that he could not live, clergymen from various portions of the State, then in Columbus, gathered about his bedside and conversed with him, for he was conscious to the last, and did not seem to suffer severe pain. A short time before his death the last Sacraments were administered by Rev. Father Eis.
Bishop Rosecrans was born in Licking County, Ohio, was a graduate of Kenyon College, and a classmate of President Hayes. By his readings he became convinced of the truth of the divine origin of the Catholic Church, and was received within her fold. After his conversion he studied, we believe, at Fordham, and then repaired to Rome, where he received the doctor’s cap and was ordained a priest twenty-six years ago. He was consecrated an auxiliary to the Archbishop of Cincinnati in 1862, and six years later was transferred to the newly erected See of Columbus. He has given ten years of his life to St. Joseph’s Cathedral, which was consecrated the day preceding his death, and will now be his last resting-place and monument. May the soul of this eminent and saintly divine and noble editor rest in peace!
—Manners are the shadows of virtues.—Sidney Smith.
—Peter Hoey, of ’58, is practicing law at Gilroy, California.
—Geo. McNulty (Commercial, of ’75,) is studying law in Chicago.	•
—James M. Howard, of’62, is practicing law at Logansport, Ind.
—Wm.Van Valkeuburg (Commercial, of’78,) is at Poughkeepsie, N. Y.	'	-
—Florian Devoto, of ’76, is teaching school at Ogden City, Utah Territory.
—Herbert H. Hunt (Commercial, of ’75,) is railroading at Council Bluffs, Iowa.
—James K. Finley (Commercial, of’72,) is in the real estate business at Pana, Ill.
—Eugene F. Arnold, of ’78, is reading law at the Washington, D. C., Law College.
Rev. P. Franciscus has returned from Cincinnati, and has taken charge of the Scholasticate.
—Frank Sweger (Commercial, of ’75,) is in a wholesale grocery house on South Water Street, Chicago.
—Rev. M. B. Brown, of ’62, is located at Crestline, Ohio. His brother, E. M. Brown, of ’65, is in Cleveland.
[ —W. J. Fullerton (Commercial, of 176,) is studying in the United States Military Academy, West Point.
• —Mrs. Eigholz, of Toledo, Ohio, was at Notre Dame last week, visiting her son who is attending class here.
—Ed. W. Robinson (Commercial, of ’78,) is doing well with his uncle at Millview, Fla., in the lumber business.
—John H. Gillespie (Commercial, of ’73,) is in the real estate business at Burlington, Iowa. From all accounts, John is doing well.
—Vincent H. Hackman (Commercial, of’71,) is in his father’s wholesale establishment, No. 805 North Second Street, St. Louis, Mo.
—Jos. E. Marks (Commercial, of ’75,) is now in the employ of A. O. Slaughter, Broker, Cor. Madison and Clarke Streets, Chicago, where he is doing well.
—Rev. Fathers Cooney, O’Mahony and Robinson left this last week for Stratford, Ontario, where they are now engaged in giving a mission for Rev. Dr. E. B. Kilroy, of ’49.
—Eber B. Gambee, of ’73, is editor and proprietor of the Democratic Dispatch, published weekly at Ukiah City, California. Mr. Gambee edits a good paper, and we are pleased to learn that his journal is prosperous.
—Jeremiah H. Falvey (Commercial, of’74,) was elected County Auditor at Winamac, Ind. He was elected on the Republican ticket. The salary of the office is three thousand dollars a year. We congratulate him on his success.
—Wm. Abell, of ’49, visited Notre Dame last Sunday. Mr. Abell lives at San Jose, California, where he has established a fine reputation as a merchant, and has been successful in life. He was accompanied on his visit by his family.
—.—Master L. Dimick, of Rock Island, III., was called home by telegram last Tuesday, owing to the death of his brother and sister. They died suddenly of diptheria. Master Dimick has been only a few weeks at Notre Dame, but has made many friends among the Professors and students. They all sympathize with him.
—Robert Pinkerton (Commercial, of’67,) and William Pinkerton (Commercial, of ’62,) spent a day at Notre Dame last week, seeing old sights and talking to old acquaintances. The Messrs. Pinkerton continue the detective agency established by their father, and now have offices in New York, Chicago, and St Louis.
—Among the old members of the Academia, as far as we can recollect, are J. J. Gillen, ’76; T. J. Gallagher, ’76-T. F. Grier, ’75; T. J. Murphy, ’75; E. J. McLaughlin, ’75; W. T. Ball, ’77; W. P. Breen, ’77; Carl Otto, ’77; P. J. Cooney, ’78; N. J. Mooney, ’77; George J. Gross, ’77; John G. Ewing, ’78; Joseph P. McHugh, ’78; Eugene F. Arnold, ’78; A. K. Schmidt, ’78; T. F. O’Grady, ’78; T. A. Dailey,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
127

’74; A. J. Stace, ’64; T. E. Howard, ’62; J. A. Zahm, ’71; H. V. Hayes, ’74; T. E. Walsh, ’76; N. Stoffel, ’76; H. L. Dehner, ’76. We hope to continue to receive contributions from them still.
—“ There is a portrait of Gregori by Gregori, I understand,” remarked a visitor at O’Brien’s gallery to a Times' reporter on yesterday.	'
“ There is less of Gregori in Gregori’s portrait of Gregori than Gregori usually puts into Gregori’s portraits of others,” was the reply.
“So there is. That head is equal to Healy’s best. I think it one of the best I ever saw. It is easy, bold, and yet admirably finished. Gregori is proving himself to be a great artist.”
“I beg your pardon,” said a young gentleman employed in the store, coming up at that moment, “ but did I not overhear you accrediting that portrait'of Gregori to Gregori himself?”
“ We were so informed.”
“I am sorry to deprive Gregori of the credit, but the portrait was painted by Spread, and is the property of Mr. J. M. Seymour, a friend of Gregori.”
And so it was. While it would suffer not at all in strength by comparison with Spread’s “De Budio,” it would gain in finish and tone. The artist subject is seated in a chair, his right arm carelessly resting upon the corresponding member of the chair, while his left hand, which rests in his lap, is gloved, and clasps the glove belonging to its companion. —Chicago Times.
Local Items.
—The Juniors have got a new table in their play-hall.
—Bulletins will be made out next Wednesday morning.
—There are a number of good readers in both refectories 1 this year.
—The Classes of Callisthenics began last week with a good attendance.	'
—Foot-ball and racket are the favorites in the Junior department.
—The second meeting of the Thespian Association took place on the 19th.
—Will there be any spelling-bees held in the Junior de-/ partment this year ?
—The Minims say the ball-alley in their play-hall is the ’ best at Notre Dame.
—Are we to have any literary entertainments this fall ?— any public debates ?
—The decorations in the new church astonish all the visitors from the East.
—Quite a number of Juniors took a stroll to Bertrand last Wednesday afternoon.
—On the 20th the Juniors opened their barrel of sweet cider, and had quite a time of it.
—The College barber this year, Mr. Condon, of South Bend, gives universal satisfaction.
—The weekly report of St. Mary’s Academy was received too late for publication this week.
—The usual monthly Theological Conference of the Clergy at Notre Dame was held last Wednesday.
—The bath-rooms in the steam-house are well used, as the rules of the College require them to be.
—Rev. J. A. Zahm will shortly deliver a lecture with experiments on the telephone and microphone.
—The papers read by members at the meetings of the Archconfraternities are in their way excellent.
—In expectation of the cold weather, the Juniors have begun to put up the tables in the recreation hall.
—The Curator of the Museum returns thanks to Bro. Lawrence for a donation of interesting specimens.
—All the addresses at the St. Cecilian Entertainment on the 12th were much better than any we had ever heard.
—Rev. Father Zahm got a phonograph and microphone
•! this week and gave a number of experiments with them.
—The double windows are being put up on the College
building. Now, will not this bring on warm weather again?
—The Vespers to-morrow are of SS. Simon and Jude, Apostles. In the morning the Hfiisa Paroulorum will be sung.	■ _
—The new addition to the Minims’ play-hall has- been / lined with brick. This will make it warm and comforta^ ble for the winter.
—We believe that we speak the truth when we say that The Scholastic is the cheapest weekly paper published in the United States.
—On the Feast of All Saints everyone will have an opportunity of seeing the magnificent cloth of gold vestments, as they will be used on that occasion.
—There has not been as much fishing done this fall as in former years. Perhaps the Isaak Waltons are holding themselves in readiness for the spring campaign. -
—Years ago the chimes in the church tower used to play / religious and national airs at the close of each hour of the / day and night. We wish such were the case now.
—Next Saturday is All-Souls’ Day. At 8 o’clock a. m. Matins and Lauds of the Dead will be chanted. The students will attend the Requiem Mass at ten o’clock.
—Very Rev. President Corby, accompanied by Very Rev. Father General, visited a great number of classes the past week. They were highly pleased with their visit.
—Our compositors’ rooms, mailing-rooms, folding-rooms, press-room, etc., are now so commodiously arranged that the printing-office here is admired by all who visit it.
—Great interest is manifested in all the societies this year, and we have every reason to believe that the members will derive great benefit from their associations.
—The interior of the Minims’ recreation hall is now finished. The increased space in addition to the new ballalley will give additional enjoyment to their recreations.
—At a meeting of the Sodality of the B. V. M. held Oct / 23d, Rev. E. Walsh gave the ten-minutes’ instruction, and ' Messrs. J. Fenton, P. Donohue and H. Deehan read essays.
—The beautiful vista formed by the scarlet, crimson and gold, purple and green leaves of the maples and other trees in front of the College is quickly passing away, leaving the branches bare.
—Rev. N. Stoffel sang his first Mass at Mishawaka last Sunday, with Revs. T. E. Walsh as deacon and P. Fallize as subdeacon. Rev. A. B. Oechtering preached a sermon on the occasion.
—The shelves, cases, etc., of the Cabinet of Mineralogy / and Geology are being rapidly put up, and the specimens I placed in order. It will take very nearly the whole year to arrange them.
—The singing at the meetings of the Archconfraternities is good; but we believe it might be improved were the members, or at least the best singers among them, to have -more private rehearsals.
—Last Wednesday Prof. Lyons did not go to Chicago. There was a great deal of surprise manifested over the fact both in Chicago and Notre Dame, but, then, it was not his fault. He missed the train.
—We hope that the secretaries of the Philodemic, Columbian, and Thespian Societies will soon be as regular and as prompt in sending in reports of meetings as the secretaries of other societies.
—Next Friday is the Feast of All Saints. In the morning the Missa Regia will be sung. Vespers may be found on page 214 of the Vesperal. After the Vespers of the Feast, the Vespers of the Dead will be chanted.
—By going around the walk in the Senior yard eight / times, three miles are passed over. Why not get up a walk- J ing-match among the students of that department some of these recreation days ? We will publish the time made.
—Master Frank Gaffney, of Detroit, and Master J. Kennedy, of Cincinnati, received velocipedes during the week from their parents. We have been informed that they were given as rewards for good conduct and application to study.
—We hope that the members of the Academia now living away from Notre Dame will find it convenient to send
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
us articles frequently. We can assure them that their contributions will always be welcomed by the editor of The Scholastic.
—At the meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception, Rev. T. E. Walsh gave the ten-min-zutes’ instruction. Papers were read by Masters Frank Mc-J Grath, of Chicago; Frank Clarke, of Columbus, Ohio; and v Frank Grever, of Cincinnati.
—By mistake the name of Mr. Frank C. Cavanaugh was omitted last week from the list of the members of the Academia. We hope there will be more applications for membership before long. The next meeting will take place in the third week of November.
—The sixth regular meeting of the Columbian Literary , and Debating Society took place on the 22d. Essays were / read by Messrs. J. Thompson, J. Stewart, W. Simms, and S. Perley. Declamations were given by J. C. Herman, Geo. Walters, J. Brice and Edward Walters.
—A. little rowing is done on the lakes, but the cool weather now coming on makes it a pastime not very enjoyable. However, as there is every prospect of many fine p' days yet before the winter sets in, there are many pleasant rows yet in store for members of the Boat Club.
—The sixth regular meeting of the St. Aloysius Philo-demic Society was held on the 22d. C. J. Clarke was the critic of the preceding meeting. R. Russell read an essay. Questions were answered by A. B. Cougar- and W. A. Wid-dicombe. Orations were delivered by A. J. Hertzog, J. J. Shugrue and W. J. Murphy.
—-Tuesday, the 29lh inst., is the fourth anniversary of the death of Rev. A. Lemonnier, C. S. C., fourth President of Notre Dame. During his short but useful career he endeared himself to thousands of friends, who, we hope, will not forget to offer a prayer for the repose of his soul. Requiem aternam dona ei, Romine: et luxperpetua luceatei.
—The fifth regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society was held on the 21st. Master Kennedy was elected a member. Declamations were delivered by y Masters C. P. Van Mourick, J. Scanlan, P. C. Crowley, W. D. Cannon, G. C. Castanedo, E. P. Devitt, J. W. G uth-rie, J. L. Halle, A. P. Perley, C. F. Rietz, J. W. Devitt and E. G. Sugg.
—The first of the series of lectures to be given in Phelan Hall during the coming year was delivered by Prof. T. E.
■ Howard on Thursday evening. He spoke on “ The English Language,” and was listened to with great attention. The lecture was one worthy the distinguished lecturer’s learning and ability, and we hope to hear him again in the course of the year.
—The “Reds ” and “Whites” of the Junior Department had quite a lively game of foot-ball on the 20th inst. The game was for a barrel of sweet cider. The “Reds” went in with a determination to win, and succeeded. It was the first time they “captured ” the Whites this session. R. Williams, of Monmouth, Ill., acted as Captain for the “Reds,” and J. Nelson, of Chicago, for the Whites.
—We have heard it complained by some parents that The Scholastic was sent to them only when their son’s name figures on the roll of honor or class honors. All who subscribe directly with us get it regularly, but there are some who subscribe through their sons, that is, the son . gets the paper at the office and is supposed to send it home.
Of course we cannot be responsible for the students’ neglect in this regard.
—The students of this year are spoken of in the highest terms by everyone connected with the institution. For awhile we were of the opinion that a good many were in detention, seeing so many go to the study-hall during recreation hours. On inquiring of the prefect in charge we found that they went to the study-hall to prepare their lessons. We would prefer, however, to see all take recreation, for their health’s sake.
—If our friends will only swell our subscription list a , few more hundreds we will get an entirely new set of type A and sell-this ten-year-old type for old metal. With a new outfit The Scholastic would surprise everybody with its bright looks. If every one of the old students took The
. Scholastic what a fine circulation it would have! We
know many who would take it were they asked, but we • have no canvassers out.	.	_
—Last Wednesday the Juniors took their annual trip to Bertrand. They visited the solid store of the place, and after they had made their purchases in the line of eatables, etc., it would not have been very difficult to inventory the remaining stock. They started at 1 o’clock and returned in time for supper. The day was exceedingly fine and was enjoyed by all. The boys were accompanied by Bros. Leander, Alexander, Francis Regis, and Hugh.
—The Lemonnier Library Association is indebted to Mr.
T. McGrath, of New York, for the following donation: Knight’s Cyclopaedia of the Industry of All-Nations, 1851; , Life and Letters of F. W. Faber, Bowden; Catholic Faith ' ~with its Practice; M. Tullii Ciceroni’s Orationes Select®,	r
Edinburgh, 1778; Life of Christ, St. Bonaventure; Choice of a State of Life, Father C. G. Rossignoli, S. J.; Civil ■ < Government, Andrew W. Young. The Librarian also ac-	J
knowledges the receipt of Mrs. Clement’s Handbook of Legendary and Mythological Art, a gift from J. Finneran.
—The editor of The Scholastic returns thanks to the members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association for a box of fine cigars, presented to him with the compliments > of the Association. He acknowledges this kindness on / . the part of his young friends, and thanks each and all the7 members, naming only the members of the committee who waited upon him: Messrs. F. W. Bloom, F. T. McGrath, G. H. Donnelly, A. Rietz and M. J. Burns. May the St. Cecilians have a glorious career in the months before us, and continue to shed lustre on their organization, one of the finest bodies in the house.
—Physicians are well agreed that the use of tobacco by growing boys is full of danger. Recent investigations— especially in France—have demonstrated that a whole train of nervous diseases are to be traced to this practice. - If you want to stop growing, if you want to have a set of nerves that are like those of an invalid old lady, if you wish to grow feeble and thin, if you wish to grow sallow and puny, I do not know any better way than to smoke tobacco, especially cigarettes. It will make a drain of your nervous system, which will be sure to tell after a while. Let us hope that if a thousand boys read this some of them will be saved from forming a habit which most men re-gret.—Pittsburgh Post.
—The sixth regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held on the evening of the 22d. After the reports of officers and committees- were read, Master K. S. Scanlan read an essay on “ Webster ”; Master Frank Bloom read an essay on “Industry”; and M. J. Burns read an essay entitled “Angling.” Declamations were delivered by Master Frank McGrath and George H.	,
Donnelly. Gustave Schnull was elected organist, and E. S.	!
Walter assistant. J. F. Mug and A. J. Zahm were elected	!
to take charge of the Society’s property. R. Williams was elected prompter, and George Orr, marshal.
—The Rev. editor of the Ave Maria has become the happy possessor of a copy of Milner’s Letters to a Prebendary which formerly belonged to the Rev. Demetrius, Prince Gallitzin, the founder of Loretto, Pa. On the flyleaf is an autograph of the famous priest. Quite a number J of souvenirs of Badin, Brute, and others distinguished in the early history of the Catholic Church in the United States, have been collected at Notre Dame, and we are glad that one of the saintly Gallitzin has now been added. By the	•
way, we might say that a Professor here has begun a collection of the portraits of the Bishops of the United States.	,<
He has now the best and most complete collection of any one in the country, though the portraits of all the Bishops
have not yet been procured. In some cases it is almost im-	■
possible to procure pictures of the deceased Bishops.	:
—	■ o ■
—During an action of Admiral Rodney’s with the French, a woman assisted at one of the guns on the main deck, and	!
being asked by the Admiral what she did there, she replied, “Please your honor, my husband is sent down to the cockpit wounded, and I am here to supply his place. Do you think, your honor, I am afraid of the French ? ” After the action Lord Rodney called her aft, told her she had been guilty of a breach of order by being on board, but rewarded	Jt
her with ten guineas for so gallantly supply the place of her husband.	'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
129:
Boll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who;during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]	„
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Arentz, R. E. Anderson, Jas. Brice, A. J. Burger. J. B. Berteling, M. T. Burns, T. J. Burns, Thos. Barrett, J. M. Byrne, J. G. Baker, M. H. Bannon, James Buchanan, J. J. Coleman, A. B. Cougar, G. P. Cassidy, T. Conlan, W. Connolly, W. E. Carpenter, W. H. Claggett, C. J. Clarke, C. E. Cavanagh, D. 8. Coddington, T. Chalfant, J. M. Carroll, F. W. Cavanaugh, E. Calkins, E. J. Dempsey, D. Donohue, L. J. Evers, J. Eberhart, M. English, A. J. Hertzog, M. J. Hogan, L. Horne, J. T. Harrison, J. C. Hermann, J. Q. Johnson, j. F. Krost, R. E. Keenan, J. K. Kelly, M. Laughlin, P. B. Larkin, A. A. Lent, W. J. Murphy, R. P. Mayer, C. F. Mueller, Thos. Mackey, J. B. McGrath, William N. McGee, W. B. McGorrisk, M. J. McCue,® J. M. McEniry, J. J. McErlain, H. W. Nevans, W. O’Brien, R. E. O’Brien, L. N. Proctor, S. 8. Perley, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, R. Russell, G. 8. Sugg, R. D. Stewart, T. S. Summers, T. W. Simms, A. Scheiber, J. J. Shugrue, C. L. Stuckey, J. 8. Smith, F. C. Smith, P. Shea, 8. P. Terry, P. H. Vogle, F. Williams, C. Walsh, F. X. Wall.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. P. Adams, M. J. Burns, J. M. Boose, F. Becker, F. W. Bloom, B. A. Casey, J. C. Casey, P. C. Crowley, A. A. Caren, F. T. Clarke, W. D. Cannon, G. H. Donnelly, J. W. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, L. D. Dimick, O. C. Eigholz, J. M. Eisenhauer, R. L. French, E. F. Fogarty, J. W. Guthrie, J. Gibbons, H. G. Gwynn, F. Glade, F. H. Grever, J. L. Halle, H. M. Haerly, J. Kurz, Jas. Kennedy, W. J. McCarthy, A. 8. Manning, J. L. Nelson, H. G. Niles, J. N. Osher, J. A. O’Donnell, G. A. Orr, E. B. Piekenbrock, F. T. Pleins, F. B. Phillips, A. P. Perley, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, D. Reidy, A. S. Rock, K. L. Scanlan, J. M. Scanlan, J. A. Seeger, J. M. Schneider, G. A. Schnull, E. G. Sugg, F. C. Scheid, J. K. Schoby, C. P. Van Mourick, F. E. Weisert, E. S. Walter, A. F. Zahm, C. B. Cones, J. Heaney.
'	minim: department.
W. McDevitt, N. P. Nelson, A. Hartrath, P. F. Brady, M. A. Coghlin, C. B. Crowe, W. F. Rheinhardt, J. M. Courtney, J. 8. Courtney, G. Woodson, C. S. McGrath, J. A. Crowe, P. 8. Fitzgerald, C. L. Garrick, F. C. Omer, G. 8. McGrath, J. B. Inder-rieden, A. H. Chirhart, 0. Farrelly, C. M. Long, H. A. Kitz, G. Howard, E. 8. Chirhart, J. 8. Inderrieden, E. C. Esmer, J. McGrath, J. H. Garrity, F. J. Garrity.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
W. Connolly, R. Keenan, H. W. Nevans, R. O’Brine, M. T. Bums, P. J. Hagan, W. H. Claggett, J. Krost, J. R. Kelly, T. J. Byrnes, J. G. Baker, P. H. Vogel, J. McErlain, C. Walsh, J. J. Shugrue, W. B. McGorrisk, J.'H. Delaney, T. ’Simms,’ F. Wall, D. Donohue, W. J. Murphy, A. Scheiber, W. Arnold, M. McEniry, T. Hale, A. Shea, K. L. Scanlan, J. Kurz, J. Nelson, B. Casey, A. Payro, J. Brady, J. O’Donnell, E. Murphy, J. Osher, F. Phillips, A. Zahm, J. Scanlan, E. Piekenbrock, J. W. Guthrie, H. Niles, O. Eigholz, D. Reidy, J. Kennedy, J. Scheiber, J. L. Morgan, C. Rietz, F. Glade, H. Fenner, G. Schnull, A. Caren, P. Perley, J. Devitt, J. F. Mug, C. Van Mourick, H. Gwynn, L. D. Dimick, M. H. Bannon, J. Harrison, T. Mackey, W. O’Brien.
minim department.
W. A Coghlin, N. P. Nelson, A. Hartrath, G. J. Rhodius, J. J. Gordon, C. Crowe, W. Reinhardt, J. M. Courtney, J. S. Courtney, G. Woodson, C. S. McGrath, G. A. Crowe, P. 8. Fitzgerald, C. L. Garrick, H. C. Orner, J. 8. McGrath, A. M. Coghlin, 0. Farrelly.	___________
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director op Studies.]
PREPARATORY COURSE:
Reading and Orthography—H. Canoil, P. Perley, J. Boose, F. Glade, J. Mackey; Grammar—F. Weisert, J. Scanlan, H. Fenner, F. Glade, W. D. Cannon, J. W. Guthrie, J. Mug, A. Rietz, J. Lumley, J. Osher, P. Crowley, E. S. Walter, W. Connolly, E. Collins, J. Delaney; Arithmetic—E. Piekenbrock, D. Reidy, J. Schneider, A. Payro, B. Casey, W. Adams, W. Claggett ; Geography and History—B. Casey, J. Schneider, J. Kennedy, M. Wolf, F. Gaffney, F. Phillips, C. Rietz, F. Weisert, J. McErlain; Algebra—R. O’Brien, C. Walsh, M. Bannon, J. Kurz, H. Nevans, J. Lumley; Latin—H. Nevans, J. Gibbons, P.
Crowley, J. Harrison, J. Kurz, W. Connolly, K. L. Scanlan, R-Stewart; Greek—F. W. Bloom, R. Russell, J. P. Quinn, H-Niles; Christian Doctrine—T. Conlan, F. Williams, J. W. Guthrie.	•
St. Mary’s.
We are unable to give the weekly report from St. Mary’s Academy this week, as it was not sent to us in time for publication.
THE SUN FOR 1879.
The Sun will be printed every day during the year to come. Its purpose and method will be the same as in the past: To present all the news in a readable shape, and to tell the truth though the heavens fall.
The Sun has been, is, and will continue to be independent of everybody and everything save the Truth and its own convictions of duty. That is the only kind of policy which an honest newspaper need have. That is the policy which has won for this newspaper the confidence and friendship of a wider constituency than was ever enjoyed by any other American Journal.
_ The Sun is the newspaper for the people. It is not for the rich man against the poor man, or for the poor man .against the rich man, but it seeks to do equal justice to all interests in the community. It is not the organ of any person, class, sect or party. There need be no mystery about its loves and hatea. It is for the honest man against the rogues every time. It is for the honest Democrat as against the dishonest Republican, and for the honest Republican as against the dishonest Democrat. It does not take its cue from the utterances of any politician or political organization. It gives its support unreservedly when men or measures are in agreement with the Constitution and with the principles upon which this Republic was founded for the people. Whenever the Constitution and constitutional principles are violated—as in the outrageous conspiracy of 1876, by which a man not elected was placed in the President’s office, where he still remains—it speaks out for the right. That is The Sun’s idea of independence. In this respect there will be no change in its programme for 1879.
The Sun has fairly earned the hearty hatred of rascals, frauds and humbugs of all sorts and sizes. It hopes to deserve that hatred not less in the year 1879, than in 1878,1877, or any year gone by. The Sun will continue to shine on the wicked with unmitigated brightness.	-
While the lessons of the past should be constantly kept before the people, The Sun does not propose to make itself in 1879 a magazine of ancient history. It is printed for the men and women of to-day, whose concern is chiefly with the affairs of today. It has both the disposition and the ability to afford its readers the promptest, fullest, and most accurate intelligence of whatever in the wide world is worth attention. To this end the resources belonging to well-established prosperity win be liberally employed.
The present disjointed condition of parties in this country, and the uncertainty of the future, lend an extraordinary significance to the events of the coming year. The discussions of the press, the debates and acts of Congress, and the movements of the leaders in every section of the Republic will have a direct bearing on the Presidential election of 1880—an event which must be regarded with the most anxious interest by every patriotic American, whatever his political ideas or allegiance. To these elements of interest maybe added the probability that the Democrats will control both houses of Congress, the increasing feebleness of the fraudulent Administration, and the spread and strengthening everywhere of a healthy abhorrence of fraud in any form. To present with accuracy and clearness the exact situation in each of its varying phases, and to expound, according to its well-known methods, the principles that should guide us through the labyrinth, will be an important part of The Sun’s work for 1879.
We have the means of making The Sun, as a political, a literary and a general newspaper, more entertaining and more useful than ever before ; and we mean to apply them freely.
Our rates of subscription remain unchanged. For the Daily Sun, a four page sheet of twenty-eight columns, the price by mail, (postpaid) is 55 cents a month, or §6.50 a year; or, including the Sunday paper, an eight-page sheet of fifty-six columns, the price is 65 cents a month, or $7.70 a year, postage paid.
The Sunday edition of The Sun is also furnished separately at $1.20 a year, postage paid.
The price of the Weekly Sun, eight pages, fifty-six columns, is $1 a year, postage paid. For clubs of ten sending $10 we will send an extra copy free. Address
I. W. ENGLAND, Publisher of The Sun, New York City.
130
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75]. Civil 'Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana.
Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
A RTHUR J. STACE [of ’61], County Surveyor for /a St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Weekly Newspapers.
THE CATHOE1C COETMBIAN. published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clabkb, or ’70.
THE A V Jil MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscrip ion price, $2.50.
Hotels.
rpHE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay,Prop., Niles, Mich-I igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Comer of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Book Binders.
EDW A.B.Y) I*. FLkjNN, Plain and Fancy Book-binder, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
0 pS C A_U<U<T1V Gr CARDS—no two alike, with name ZltJ neatly printed, for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
Mishawaka, Ind.
0PS CENTS will obtain you a Copy of Tax Scholastic ZltJ At.-mawic for 1878. Address
J. A. Lyons,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Attorneys at Law.
BRO AV jN"	HCA.B.'VTEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), At-
torneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER MITCHELL [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
r I UlOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at
-L Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
KAJJTiTPi'G & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of *74], At-
torneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Ill.
JOHN F. McllUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE	DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and
Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
nRVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61) KJ Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McTJTt/TDE	MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of
’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Ad, miralty. Practice in all tho courts of Mich, and of the U. 8. Office 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
\A IAA/T/T A NT J. CL ARKE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, V V Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
A.. O’REILLY—of ’69.—Attorney at Law ef 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to
JOHN D. McCORMICK—of’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
D-AJNIEE B. HIBBARD, Jr., (of ’70), Circuit
Court Commissioner, Law and Collecting Office, 98 Griswold Street, Detroit, Michigan.	Mp H-ly
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe.
Tn the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course. Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Gold Medal for German, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger, of Fort Wayne.
Gold Medal for Domestic Economy, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Gilmour, of Cleveland.
Gold Medal for French, presented by Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Order of the Holy Cross.
Gold Medal for Drawing and Painting, presented by Dr. Toner, of Washington, D. C.
Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, presented by Mrs. M. Phelan, of Lancaster, Ohio.
Number of teachers engaged in Preparatory, Academical and Classical Departments, 14; Modern Languages, 6; Drawing and Painting, 5; Instrumental Music, 10; Vocal Music; 2; Dress-making, plain and fancy needle-work, 7.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address,
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
JL CATHOLIC JOUBITAL
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
BLESSED BY OUR LITE HOLY FATHER PIUS II, CONFIRMED BY POPE LEO HQ
And Encouraged by Manx Eminent Prelates.
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may be mentioned
Aubrey de Vere, Grace Ramsay,
Henri Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, SThe Author of “Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
TERMS:
O.ne^ar......................................  *	2 50
Five Years....................................jo	00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of 82 each)	. 20 00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
BEV. EDITOB OF THE “AVE MABIA,”
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company 39 & 41 Chambers St. New York.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
131
University of Notre Dame,
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C.S.C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison,connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express.. 10 15 a.m. 4 00 p.m
Peru accommodation...................... 5 00 p.m.	9 45 a.m
Night Express...........................10 00 p.m.	6 30 a.m
A. M. SMITH, A. KIMBALL, Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO
KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo-, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at Depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City. nd Denver Express via Jacksonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo.......3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am
Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.....................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex......7 30 am 9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express..8 00 pm 9 00 am
Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation...................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, G en. Manager. J. Charlton, G en. Pass. Agt.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, May 12,1878, trains will leave South Bend aa follows:
GOING EAST.
2 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 30 pm; Buffalo 8 05 pjn.
1A 05 a m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p m;
Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo, 4 am.	-
12 16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 540pm, Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo4am.
O 12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
2 40 am; Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 1 10 p m.
4 50 and 4 pm, Way Freight.___
GOING WEST.
2 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 am, Chicago 6 am.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 20 a m.	.
■A 50 p m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte $ 40;
Chicago, 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 am; Chi* cazo 11 30 a. m.
7 30 and 8 03 a m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Getrl Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Snp’t West Div., Chicago. ,
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, December 26, 1877.
Northward Trains.	No. 5.* Peru and Mich. City Ex.	No. 3. Chicago & Toledo Ex.	No.l. Mail,Ft.W.,ToI. and Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis	 “ Kokomo		6.10 P. M	12.25 p. M.	7.25 A. M.
	8.30 “	2.42 “	9.52 “
Ar. Peru		9.25 “	3.50 “	10.47 “
Lv. Peru	 “ Plymouth	 “ La Porte*	 “ Michigan City		9.30 P. M. 11.27 “ 12.55 “ 1.40 A. M.		11.02 A. M. 1.07 P. M. 2.35 “ 3.20 “
Southward Trains.	No. 2. Mail Ft. W.. Chi. & Detroit Ex.	No. 4. Chicago and Mich. City Ex.	No. 6. Ft. W., Toledo & Detroit Ex.
Lv. Michigan City.. “ LaPorte	 “ Plymouth	 Ar. Peru		9.35 A. M. 10.25 P. M. 11.47 “ 1.40 “	8.05 p. m. 8.55 A. M. 10.33 “ 12.35 “	
Lv. Peru		2.00 P. M.	12.40 A. M.	6.10 A. M.
“ Kokomo		3.05 “	1.45	“	7.05	“
“ Indianapolis....	5.25 “	4.00 u	9.35 “
£37“ Palace Sleeping Cars are attached to trains leaving Indianapolis at 6.10 p. m. .Michigan City at 8.05 p. m. Passengers may remain in the Sleeping Cars during the day.
F. P. Wade, G. P. & T. A., Indianapolis.
V. T. Malott, Gen’l Manager, Indianapolis.
INFORMATION WANTED
OF the whereabouts of WILLIAM GATES, aged about 18 years.
Was a Minim in 1S64 and 65 at the University of Notre Dame, Ind. Resided in Chicago, Hl.; afterwards in St. Louis, Mo.
Please address,	“The Scholastic.”
PATRICK SHICKEY,
PROPRIETOR OP THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mmy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P. S HICKEY.
|	JAMES BONNEY
; THE PHOTOGRAPHER,
1	Corner Michigan and. Washington Sts.,
I	SOUTH ZBETTZD,
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate constitutions will find it invaluable.	-
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST., ojuosite Sherman House,
Chicago, Illinois.
132	. THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Michigan Central Railway Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne& Chicago ------------------------:	AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE. jTime Table-Noy. 11, 1S77.	.
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles 	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		7 00 a.m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ fi 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 “ ♦Jackson Express. 5 40 a.m 8 40 “ 4 45 p.m 4 30 a.m 6 30 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a m 3 35 “	19 00 p m 11 15 “ 2 35 am 2 17 “ 4 45 “ 8 00 “
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.		tPacific Express.	^Evening Express.
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 55 “	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		9 50 p.m 12 45 am 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6 20 p m 9 40 “ 12 35 a m 2 38 “ 4 15 “ 6 45 “
IN lies and Sou. tlx Bend. Division.
•GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p m. “ N. Dame— 852 ••	638 “
Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “
♦GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	448 “
Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Ill. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA. AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST-. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offlces-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to	'
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
MAY 12, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No. 1,	No. 7,	No .3,	No. 5,
	Fast Ex.	Pac. Ex.	Night Ex.	Mail.
Pittsburgh,	Leave	11.45 pai.	9.00 A.M.	1.50 p.m.	6.00 A.M.
Rochester,			12.53 a.m.	10.15 “	258 “	745 “
Alliance,			3.10 “	1250 p/w	535 “	1100 “
Orrville,		4.45 “	230 “	712 “	
Mansfield,		7.00 “	4.40 “	920 “	311 “
Crestline,	Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
Forest,		9.25 “	7.35 “	1125 “	
Lima,.		10.40 “	9.00 “	1225 a.m.	
Ft. Wayne,		1.30 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Ply mouth^		3.45 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,	Arrive	7.00 “	6.00 “	7.58 “		
GOING EAST.
		Mo. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,			9.10 p.m.	8.00 A.M.	5.15 P.M.	
Plvmouth			2.46 A.M.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
Ft" Wayne,			6 55 “	2.10 p.m.	11.35 “	
Lima,."...			8.55 “	4.05 “	1.30 A.M.	
Forest			10.10 “	5.20 “	2.43 “	
Crestline,....	...Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.25 “	
Crestline				Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.30 a.m.	6 05 a v
Mansfield,			12.35 “	7.44 “	500 “	6.55 “
Orrville,			2.26 “	9.38 “	7.10 “	9.15 “
Alliance,			4.00 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	11.20 “
Rochester.			6.22 “	1.20 A.M.	11.06 “	
Pittsburgh,...		7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 “	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 1 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to ’ Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F R. MYERS, G. P. & T. A.
INMAN LINE.
ROYAL NLVlIu STEAMERS.
NEW YORK to QUEENSTOWN and LIVERPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491
CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607
CITY OF CHESTER, 4566
CITY OF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS, 3775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS, 3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN, 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G. DALE, Agent.
15 Broadway, New York,
Or to JACOB WILE,
Foreign Exchange and Passage Agent, oct5-tf La Porte, Indiana.