The Scholastic.
PIVOTED TO THE
OF THE JStUDENTS.
"Vita Sine Literis Mors Est.”
Volume VI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 23, 1872.
Number 11.
Childhood’s Garden.
BT ALPHOXSE DATTOX.
1 know a garden of fragrance, A garden of golden bloom, There is sunshine wreathed in the roses, And stars aglow in the gloom.
I know the pathways, turn by turn, For back in the long ago
I used to chase the butterflies there, And watch for the roses to blow.
How balmy sweet, in the olden time, The breath of those daint y flowers;
The moments fell with a silvery chime
To sleep in the golden hours;
And the lilies used to love me then As they leaned across my feet, To hold me back in the pathway fair, For they knew the days were fleet.
As the lilies paled and died away, And the roses side by side
Have faded year by year, to-day
I am left in the eventide ;
If I know the garden so well, so well,
I never may enter there,
But morn by morn at the gateway still, I can see the children fair
Step down through the gilded blossoms, With their faces all aglow,
And I look back through the broken days, To that time when mine was so;
And I wonder oft and oft again, .
If the lilies bend as fair To the little children in their flight, As they did when I was there.
I wonder now if the yellow gold
On the wings of the butterflies— (I used to think them floating stars
Astray in the silvery skies)— Spills down on the lily cups of dew, As they drift away in the light, To find their homes in the isles of blue, Asleep on the verge of night.
Oh! I am sad, so sad at heart, For they cannot bring me back What the lilies say to the roses now, Or the sweetness life may lack I I know the path to the garden, But the children can only go, Passing me by as I sit alone, And weep in the evening’s glow.
Notre Dame Geographic Ezpedition.
The Voyage to Mexico.—Havana.—A Bird’s-eye ■	View of it.
Vera Cruz, Mexico, Nov. 4th, 1872.
Editor Scholastic : Again we address you from terra firma, but only in fulfilment of a promise expressed in our first letter that you should hear from us when we shall have arrived at Bagdad. The Bagdad part of the promise, however, will never be fulfilled, for we have learned from many sources of good authority that it would be of no benefit to us to proceed so far north; that we could see more of Mexico and Mexican manners in Vera Cruz and a vicinity of 200 miles radius than we could in all the northern part of the country. Hence we find ourselves this morning in the harbor of the time-honored city of the True Cross.
Since our last account, nothing of importance had transpired on our voyage, and we have now only to describe our short stay in Havana. We left Charleston, after laying in fuel and a store of provisions, on the 23rd Oct., the sea being calmer than heretofore, and after a few days travel were ushered into an atmosphere laden with the fragrance of tropical vegetation. By this we knew we were in the Strait of Florida; and on the 27th, after steering to the S. W., the Florida Reefs wereTaintly discernible to the northeast, but gradually disappeared as we moved forward. Towards midnight of the 28th, Messrs. Dorsey, Watson and Halpin, watching anxiously from the foredeck, first discovered the glimmering lights of Moro Castle in the distant horizon. Great was the joy of all upon being informed of this discovery, for we all immediately began to experience a sense of relief from the monotony of our voyage, and anticipate a refreshing rest from the fatigues occasioned by over-much travel upon water. As we approached our destination, we observed the entrance to the harbor to- be a very narrow channel, through which but one vessel could pass at a time. We steamed slowly along it, being carefully watched all the while by the grim old walls of Castle Moro on the one side, and the unpretending ones of the Puntal on the other. Finally obtaining'the harbor, we came to an anchor, until daylight, when we could effect a landing.
At day-break a magnificent sight presented itself to our wondering gaze. The red tropical sun, slowly rising from the bluish depths beyond the Bahamas, exhibited in all their beauty a multitude of vessels of all shapes and sizes, representing almost every nation, as was evidenced by the numerous national colors displayed from peak and mast-head. Havana derives its name, it is true, from its
82
THE SCHOLASTIC.
possessing so fine a haven or harbor, said by many to be the finest in the world, but this sight impressed us the more with its great importance as a seaport town. We could not but agree with those great men of President Fillmore’s day, who argued that Cuba—the Queen of the Antilles—ought to be a portion of the United States. Upon our disembarking, our baggage passed through a careful examination by Spansh custom-house officials, after which we proceeded to a hotel situated near the citadel, in the centre of the city, and which we made our headquarters for the time we remained. The city has an antiquated appearance, and is evidently sustained principally by its commerce, which is certainly immense, since it is the principal market of all Spanish America. Its population numbers, perhaps, 200,000, consisting of Spaniards and mixed races. The city is regularly laid out, a large and beautiful avenue running full length of the city, upon which is situated a public botanic garden and large parks and fields in which the garrison troops drill and exercise. We visited the famous University of Havana, which is conducted on a plan differing from that of our American colleges, as it is supported in the main by the Spanish Government. Time and space again'interfere, so we shall pass on to the celebrated Cathedral, which has stood the storms and revolutions of centuries. It is old and venerable in appearance, but of service to generations yet. The inside is richly ornamented,-and strikingly displays in its arrangement the veneration the pious Spaniard has for the house of God. The lighted lamp, suspended before the altar, reminds the. Catholic that he is in the presence of his Creator, and with reverence and devotion he approaches a corner of the church indicated as being the hallowed spot where repose the ashes of America’s discoverer, Columbus, and there offers up a prayer of thanksgiving to Him who first lighted the sainted mariner and guided him in his dark and uncertain veyage.
It is unnecessary for us to describe the many manufactories we visited, especially those where tobacco is made up into its various shapes for market,—the cigar manufacture. But you are, no doubt, anxious to hear of what we saw, or rather have yet to see, in Mexico. This we will make the subject of our next letter.
Please address last number of Scholastic to us at San Domingo, Hayti, as we will be in that city about the time it arrives, for we are all anxious for news from home.
Yours, etc., ’ Viatob.
A becent German paper contained a witty reply from a priest who was travelling, and -who stopped at a hotel much frequented by what are termed, in commercial parlance, “drummers.” The host, not being used to have clergymen at his table, looked at him with surprise; the clerks used all the artillery of their low wit upon him, without eliciting a remark in self-defence. The worthy priest ate his dinner quietly, apparently without observing the gibes and sneers of his neighbors.
One of them at last, in despair at his forbearance, said to him:
“ Well, I wonder at your patience! Have you not heard all that has been said against you ?”
“ Oh yes, but I am so used to it. Do you not know who I am ?”
“No sir.”
“ Well, I will inform you. I am chaplain of a lunatic asylum; such remarks have no effect upon me.”
International’ Exhibition.
An Address by the United States Centennial Commission.	-
To the People of the United States:
The Congress of the United States has enacted that the completion of the One Hundredth Year of American Independence shall be celebrated by an International Exhibition of the Arts, Manufactures, and Products of the soil and mine, to be held at Philadelphia, in 1876, and has appointed a Commission, consisting of representatives from each State and Territory, to conduct the celebration.
Originating under the auspices of the National Legisla-lature, controlled by a National Commission, and designed as it is to “ Commemorate tbe first century of our existence, by an Exhibition of the natural resources of the country and their development, and of our progress in those Arts which benefit mankind, in comparison with those of older Nations,” it is to the people at large that the Commission look for the aid which is necessary to make the Centennial Celebration the grandest anniversary the world has ever seen.
That the completion of the first century of our existence should be marked by some imposing demonstration is, we believe, the patriotic wish of the people of the whole country. The Congress of tbe United States has wisely decided that the Birth-day of the Great Republic can be most fittingly celebrated by the universal collection and display of all the trophies of its progress. It is designed to bring together, within a building covering fifty acres, not only the varied productions of our mines and of the soil, but types of all the intellectual triumphs of our citizens, specimens of everything that America can furnish, whether from the brains or the hands of her children, and thus make evident to the world the advancement of which a selfgoverned people is capable.
In this “ Celebration ” all nations will be invited to par-ticipaie, its character being International. Europe will display her arts and manufactures, India her curious fabrics, while newly-opened China and Japan will lay bare the treasures which for centuries their ingenious people have been perfecting. Each land will compete in generous rivalry for the palm of superior excellence.
To this grand gathering every zone will contribute its fruits and cereals. No mineral shall be wanting; for what the East lacks the. West will supply. Under one roof will the South display in rich luxuriance her growing cotton, and the North in miniature the ceaseless machinery of her mills converting that cotton into cloth. Each section of the globe will send its best offerings to this exhibition, and each State of the Union, as a member of one united body politic, will show to her sister States and to the world how much she can add to the greatness of the nation of which she is a harmonious part.
To make the Centennial Celebration such a success as the patriotism and the pride of every American demands, will require the co operation of the people of the whole country. The United States Centennial Commission has received no Government aid, such as England extended to her World’s Fair, and France to her Universal Exposition, yet the labor and responsibility imposed upon the Commission is as great as in either of those undertakings. It is estimated that ten millions of dollars will be required,
THE SCHOLASTIC.
83
and tins sum Congress has provided shall be raised by stock subscription, and that the people shall have the opportunity of subscribing in proportion to the population of their respective States and Territories.
The Commission looks to the unfailing patriotism of the people of ewy sections to see that each contributes its share to the expenses, aud receives its share of the benefits of an enterprise in which all are so deeply interested. It would further earnestly urge the formation in each State and Territory of a centennial organization, which shall in time see that county associations are formed, so that when the nations are gathered together in 1870 each Commonwealth can view with pride the contributions she has made to the national glory.
Confidently relying on the zeal and patriotism ever displayed by our people in every national undertaking, we pledge and prophesy that the Contennial Celebration will worthily show how greatness, wealth and intelligence, can be fostered by such institutions as those which have for one hundred years blessed the people of the United States,
JOSEPH R. HAWLEY, Pres't.
Lewis Walk Smith, Temporary Secretary.
The Tower of the A&mtive.
The power of positive ideas and the power of the positive affirmation and promulgation of them move the world. Breath is wasted in nothing more lavishly than in negations aud denials. It is not necessary for truth to worry itself, even if a lie can run a league while it is putting on its boots. Let it run, aud get out of breath and out of the way. A man who spends his days in arresting and knocking down lies and liars will have no time left for speaking the truth. There is nothing more damaging to a man’s reputation than his admission that it needs defending when attacked. Great sensitiveness to assault, on the part of any cause, is an unmistakable sign of weakness. A strong man and a strong cause need only to live an affirmative life, devoting no attention whatever to enemies, to win their way, and to-trample beneath their feet all the obstacles that malice, or jealousy, or selfishness throws before them. The man who can say strongly and earnestly “I believe,” has not only a vital and valuable possession, but he has a peima-nent source of inspiration within himself, aud a permanent influence over others. The man who responds: “ I do not believe what you believe,” or “ I deny what you believe,” has no possession, and no influence except a personal one.
In nothing is this principle better exemplified and illustrated than in the strifes of political parties. The party that adopts a group of positive ideas, and shapes a positive policy upon them, and boldly and consistently affirms and promulgates both ideas and policy, has an immense advantage over one which undertakes to operate upon a capital of negations. The history of American politics is full of confirmations of this truth, No party has ever had more than a temporary success that based its actions simply on a denial of a set of positive ideas held by its opponent. The popular feeling demands something positive—something that really possesses breath and being—to which it may yield its allegiance. There is no vitalizing and organic power in simple opposition and negation. Earnest, straightforward affirmation has a power in itself, inde
pendent of what it affirms, greater than negation when associated with all the influences it can engage.
The Author of Christianity understood this matter. His system of religion was to be preached, proclaimed, promulgated. Its friends were not to win their triumphs by denying the denials of infidelity, but by persistently affirming, explaining and applying the truth. With this system of truth in his hands—so pure, so beneficent,-so far-reaching in its results upon human character, happiness, and destiny—the Christian teacher commands the posilion. Infidelity and denial can make no permanent headway against faith, unless faith stop to bandy words with them. That is precisely what they would like, and what would give them an importance and influence which thejr can win in no other way. Why should an impregnable fortress exchange shots with a passing schooner? Silence would be a better defense than a salvo, and deprive the schooner of the privilege of being reported in the newspapers. The world whirls toward the sun, and never stops to parley with the east wind. The great river, checked by a dam, quietlyjnles up its waters, buries the dam, and, rolling over it, grasps the occasion for a new exhibition of its positive power and beauty. The rip-rap shuts au ocean door, but the ocean has a million doors through which it may pour its tides. Stopping to deny denials is as profitless as stopping to deny truths. It is consenting to leave an affirmative for a negative position, which is a removal to the weak side.
So a man who has really anything positive in him has nothing to do but persistently to work and to live it out. If he is a politician or a statesman, or a reformer or a literary man, he can make himself felt most as a power in the world, and be securest of ultimate recognition,' by living a boldly affirmative life, and doing thoroughly that which it is in him to do, regardless of assault, detraction and misconstruction. The enemies of any man who suffers himself to be annoyed by them will be certain to keep him busy. The world has never discovered anything nutritious iu a negation, and the men of faith and conviction will always find a multitude eager for the food they bear. Men will continue to drink from the brooks and refuse to eat the stones that obstruct them. Even error itself in an affirmative form is a thousand times more powerful than when it appears as a denial of a truth.—Dr. F. G-. Holland, in Scribner's for November.
The Agassiz Professorship of Oriental Languages and Literature, for the endowment of which a public-spirited citizen of California has made provision, is a first step towards placing the University of California, under President Gilman, in a suitable attitude towards the Asiatic culture which has found a door of access to America at San Francisco. The immediate purpose of the founder of this professorship seems to have been to promote instruction in Chinese and Japanese, without particular reference to those fields of study which are commonly referred to in speaking of oriental languages and literature. But circumstances will doubtless promote a sufficient development of the interest now provided for, and make the western link in our chain of American universities a connecting link also with the whole of oriental culture.—College Courant.
Whether, a woman should “ bemoan her lot” or not, depends entirely upon its location and size.

THE SCHOLASTIC.
Ths Scholastic.
Published every Week during Term Time, at NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
Rev. M. B. Brown, C. S. C., ----- - Editor.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.	.
TERMS:
One year........;..............................$2 00
One session (5 months)......................... 1 25
Single copies (10c) of the publication can be obtained at the Stu dents’ Office.	..
Temperance.
So much has heen said and written on the subject of temperance, that some may think we are sadly in want of a theme when we select this as the subject of our remarks. However, we shall venture incurring this charge of literary sterility, in consideration of the importance of the subject before us; for we believe that important truths may be often repeated with advantage to the hearer or reader.
Temoerance has been extensively discussed, and many have shown themselves very intemperate by the manner in which they, treat the question,—confounding temperance with total abstinence from intoxicating liquors, and fulminating the most terrible threats of degradation and destruction against all who think or act in opposition to their self-constituted standard.
Let us pause, then, and ask ourselves coolly what temperance really is ? The word itself means moderation, or a rational self-control in the use of anything whatsoever, and also in one’s thoughts, words and actions. The opposite, or intemperance, therefore, means excess or want of moderation. Hence, a man may be a teetotaller so far as intoxicating liquors are concerned, and still be an intemperate man; - while another may use intoxicating liquors and other stimulants and still be strictly temperate.
But “ circumstances alter cases.” All things in this world are relative; that is, when we wish to determine the propriety or inpropriety of an act in a particular case (supposing the act is not bad in itself) we must, to be reasonable, examine the circumstances accompanying that act before we pronounce judgment; for an act, indifferent in itself, will be good or evil, according to the circumstances.
Now, applying this general principle to the case in question, namely, the use of intoxicating liquors, we would conclude that a man taking a certain quantity of liquor may be a strictly temperate man, while another, taking the same quantity, would act contrary to temperance. Thus, a man finds himself weakened by illness, and takes liquor in moderation to stimulate his system in order to Tecover his strength more rapidly, such a one is nevertheless a temperate man, even though the liquor should make his head swim. Or suppose that a man is in his usual health, and takes liquor in moderation, feeling at the same time that he does not expose himself to commit any excess ; that man is also a temperate man.
■ On the contrary, a man who drinks immoderately, or one who in health drinks liquor, knowing by his own past experience that he will probably be led into excess, is an
intemperate man, even though he actually commit no excess; for he acts contrary to the dictates of reason, which says that a man should not only avoid that which is evil in itself, but also that which will probably lead him to do evil.
“ But,” the advocates of teetotalism will say, “ a man who drinks at all exposes himself to the danger of going to excess, since it is the nature of a stimulant to create an appetite for more of the same article.” We grant that stimulating drinks—especially if they are not pure—are apt to create an appetite for more after a certain time, but it by no means follows that' this appetite must necessarily be indulged in an excessive degree, nor do we think that this appetite, except in very rare cases; becomes so strong as to require any very extraordinary effort to control it. If, indeed, the moderate use of liquor were to necessitate excessive indulgence, or even render such indulgence a very probable consequence in a comparatively great number of cases, then there might be some grounds for the assertion that temperance required total abstinence from liquors, but we are not prepared to admit that such is the case.
We would not have any one understand by what we have said that we advocate the drinking of liquor, or that we oppose total abstinence from strong drink. Far from it. We believe that liquor should be used as any other medicine would be, in case of need; and apart from such case, we believe that a man is far better off without liquors than with them. Yet we decidedly disapprove of that extreme radicalism which would make the taking of a glass of wine a crime, or ruin a man’s reputation because he swallowed a spoonful of brandy. A man’s reputation is valuable, and he who would injure or ruin his neighbor’s reputation simply because he saw him take some liquor, is not only unchristian and uncharitable, but really more intemperate, because more unreasonable, than the man whose reputation has suffered.
Each man should control himself, as each man is responsible for his own actions. He should take liquor when needful, avoid it as at best useless on other occasions; but ' should he think proper to use it at other times in moderation, there is no reason why we should cry him down as a criminal.	.
Let us be temperate in all things ourselves, and we will be sure to treat others with charity. •
Notes by the Way.
We are sorry to say that our Minim graduate has lost his nose. Accidents will happen.
Among those present at the Entertainment on Thursday we were glad to notice Miss Edwards, of Toledo.
Owing to the scarcity of horses, the audience on Thursday evening was not as large as it usually is on such occasions.	.
The St. Cecilians’ Entertainment on Thursday evening was highly appreciated by all. No doubt some willing pen will furnish a report for next week.
That boy who whistled in the Hall on Thursday evening may expect to get his “walking papers” some day unless he amend his manners. Any one capable of such rudeness will sooner or later commit himself in such a manner as to render a severe punishment unavoidable.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
85
"	Personal.
Rev. Father Spillard cheered us with his genial presence on Thursday afternoon.	'
Rev. Father Cooney has postponed his visit to Europe. He will probably make the trip next Spring.
Rey. Father Gillen has returned from the East and is looking quite hearty. He was in Boston during the great fire, and gives a distressing account of the terrible conflagration.
We see Rev. Father Yagnier frequently of late, owing to the fact that his duties as editor of the Ordo fox ’73 brings him daily to the office. We would be glad if several Ordos were to be issued during the year.
Prop. Boyne, of South Bend, accompanied by his daughter, gave us the pleasure of his company on Thursday evening. We had not seen the Professor for a long time, and were delighted to welcome him again to Notre Dame.
Rev. Father Frere honored us with a short visit this week. We were, however, almost deprived of the pleasure which his visits always affords us by the fact that he was “ much caught ” by the changes made in the railroad time-tables, and barely escaped missing the train.
Mr. J. E. McBride and bride spent a few hours with us on Sunday. Mr. McBride graduated in the Scientific Course in ’69, afterwards studied law in Toledo, Ohio, and has been for some time successfully practising his profession in Kalamazoo, Mich. We wish the happy pair a long life of happiness and prosperity.
* Mr. J. Conahan, of the Chicago Type Foundry, spent some days at Notre Dame this week, superintending the arrangements for stereotyping the Ave Maria. Mr. Conahan is a master in his line, and under his direction we are confident that everything will be ready before January, when a new volume of the Ave Maria will begin and be printed from stereotype plates.
Holl of Honor.
[Under this head are given each week the names of those students whose conduct was in every respect satisfactory during the week preceding the given date.]
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1872, Senior Department.
F. H. Buter,	W. Briant,	C. Berdel,
G. Brown,	M. Bastorache,	R. Boyle,
L. Burridge,	V. Baca,	W. Bartlett,
M. Browne,	J. Brogan,	J. Browne,
P. Cooney,	W. Clarke,	G. Crummey,
J. Comer,	W. Wallace,	A. Costello,
B. Dorsey,	J. Devine,	W. Dodge,
J. Drake,	T. Dundon,	J. Eisenman,
J. Flynn,	B. Gorman,	J. Gillen,
E. Graves,	J. Gillespie,	E. Gambee,
D. J. Hogan,	E. Halpin,	J. Hoeveler,
F. Hamilton,	C. Hodgson,	J. Ireland,
P. Jacobs,	T. Keenan,	J. Kelly,
W. Lucas,	F. Leffingwell,	J. McGlynn,
E. Morancy,	D. Maloney,	J. Miller,
J. McCormick,	E. McSweeney,	A. Mooney,
E. McLaughlin,	E. Monohan,	E. Mullen,	
J. Murphy, P. O’Connell, H. Saylor, J. Shiel, P. Trudeau, S. Valdez, C. Walter,	J. McAlister, J. Rofinot, L. Sanders, F. Scrafford, A. Taggart, L. Watson, H. Walker,	T. Noel, P. O’Meara, B. Roberts, G. Stack, M. Torbett, T. White, J. Wolfe.	-
F. Austin, B. Baca, W. Breen, J. Campbell, W. Chapoton, J. Devine, G. Fliehmann, G. Gerew, J. Graham, E. Holt, L. Hibben, J. Jepson, W. Kinzie, J. Mullarky, S. Marks, E. Mohl, W. Meyer, A. McIntosh, J. Nevin, D. O’Connell, A. Ried, H. Shephard, W. Schulthies, S. Wise, %	Junior Department.	" P. Brosseau,	G.	Berdel,	• L. Busch,	C.	Black, W. Ball,	C.	Burger, J. Caren,	P. Corbett, J. Dore,	J. Dunn, J. Ewing,	H.	Enneking, W. Fletcher,	G. Gross, W. Gross,	J. Golsen, J. Grace,	J. Hanley, V.	Hansen,	R.	Hutchings, W.	Haney,	M.	Hilliard, A. Kreiter,	R. Kelly, A. Kleine,	F. McOsker, E.	McMahon,	J.	McGrath, J. Marks,	W.	Morgan, F.	Miller,	E.	Milbum, V.	McKinnon,	J. McHugh, J. McDermott, ’ T. McGee, J. O’Connor,	J. O’Connell, W.	Pollard,	J. Quill, D. Salazar,	A. Schmidt, J. Stubbs,	F. Smyth, J. Skalla,	0.	Waterman, J. Wanbaugh, J. Wilson, J. Willliams.		-
H. Faxon, A. Wetherbee, F. O’Brien, J. McMahon, D. Green,	Minim Department. C. Faxon,	A. Koch, G. McCollum,	C. Walsh, J. O’Meara,	J.	Deehan, A. Murphy,	J.	Holland, J. Hilliard. J. F. Edwards, Secretary.		
	Class Honors	■ *	
[Under this heading will appear each week the names . of those students who have given satisfaction in aS studies of the Class to which they belong. Each Class will be mentioned every fourth week, conformably to the following arrangement. First week, the Classes of the four Collegiate years, (Classical and Scientific); second week, those of the Commercial Course; third week, those of the Preparatory; fourth week, Music, Fine Arts, Modem Languages, and special Classes.—Director oe Studies.]			
,	FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1872.			
E. B. Gambee, T. Dundon,	SENIOR CLASS. D. J. Hogan, M. Foote,	P. O’Connell, J. D. McCormick.	
junior class. J. D. Hogan,	T. P. White.			
W. J. Clarke, C. Dodge,	SOPHOMORE CLASS L. Hayes, W. Dodge, E. McLaughlin.	D. Maloney, F. P. Leffingwell,.	-
86
THE SCHOLASTIC.
FRESHMAN CLASS.	
J. Eisenman,	E. G. Graves,	C. Walter,
T. J. Murphy,	H. Walker, M. Bastorache,	James Caren.	C. Berdel,
Arrivals.	-	
William Mulligan,	Notre Dame, Indiana.
James Kinney,	Lowell, Indiana.
Edward Kimm,	Hastings, Minnesota.
Andrew Murphy,	Albany, New York.
John Casey,	St. Louis, Missouri.
Bernard Casey, .	St. Louis, Missouri.
Maurice Casey,	St. Louis, Missouri.
William H. Sammons,	Nashua, Iowa.
Charles A. Butler,	-	Wayne, Michigan.
John B. Begue,	New Haven, Indiana.
John J. Lee,	New Haven, Indiana.
Valerio Baca,	Las Vegas, N. Mexico.
John Callaghan	Niles, Michigan.
William D. Kelly,	Muskegon, Michigan.
Joseph Hackett,	Chicago, Illinois.
J. Archambeault,	•	Lowell, Indiana.
Charles W. Spears,	Morrison, Illinois.
John F. Tobin,	St. Louis, Missouri.
Charles Carey,	Chicago, Illinois.
Society Seports.	
St. Aloysius’ Philodemic.
Editor Scholastic—Sir: That it may not be supposed by the friends of literature that our venerable association has expired, or is in any manner depressed by those evils ■which usually attend old age, we beg leave to inform them, through the columns of your paper, that we are vigorously pursuing the object for which our society was founded, quietly, if you wish, but with energy and determination.
The twenty-second reorganization meeting, held September 22nd, resulted in the election of the following officers:
Director—Rev. J. 0. Carrier.
President—J. A. Zahm.	.
Vice-President—R. O’Meara.
Corresponding Secretary—P. J. O’Connell.
Recording Secretary—T. P. White.
Treasurer—E. Graves.
Librarian—E. McSweeney.
Censors—E. Morancy and J. Ward. ’
Since the above date the Society has continued to meet regularly, the usual exercises occupying the meetings.
At a meeting held on the 19th inst., Mr. E. McSweeney .read an essay on the Study of History. He was followed by Mr. J. Ward, who treated the association to an allegorical essay on Faith, Hope, and Charity, which evinced much ingenuity on the part of the writer. Mr. J. Crum-mey then delivered in good style a well prepared declamation. The regular exercises of the evening were closed by an excellent declamation from P. Cooney. Active measures are employed to increase our already extensive library. Under the guidance of its present energetic officers, we do not hesitate to say that this association can still maintain that high position which it has ever held among the literary societies at Notre Dame.	.
P. J. O’Connell, Cot'. Sec.
Shakespeare’s Handwriting.
It is nothing less than marvellous that a man who wrote as he wrote—and, altogether, no man ever wrote like him —that a poet, the author of such plays and such poems ; that a man possessing so many friends and admirers, with whom his correspondence must have been extensive, should not have left a single line behind him traced by his own hand. Of all his poems and plays there does not exist a page, a line, a single word in manuscript. AU Shakespeare’s manuscript plays could not have perished in the fire which destroyed the Globe Theatre. The author must have made little account of them himself; but how great would our estimation be of a single act of any one of Shakespeare’s plays in his own handwriting! We have just now among us a parallel to the tulip mania. Thousands of pounds are willingly paid for a picture which the same number of shillings would once have purchased, llather, let us say that the shillings were given for the picture, and that the pounds by thousands are given for the painter’s name. Well, what would not be willingly paid (for the sake of Shakespeare’s name) for the original manuscript, say of Hamlet ? There would be a fierce fight among the competitors for even a single passage. We fancy the lines beginning with “ The quality of mercy is not strained,” or those that open with “ She never told her love,” and hundreds of others, could not be had for guineas covering each letter. What a contention there would be for the first love-letter, addressed to anyone! A costly holograph! Alas! there are neither lines nor letters. All that have been saved of Shakespeare’s handwriting is confined to a couple of signatures of his name to certain deeds, and in those subscriptions the name is spelled differently. Even the forgers have not dared to produce a letter by Shakespeare.—Temple Bar.
Salmagundi.	'
Winter is here.
The Societies are all busy.	1
It’s all over with base-ball. -
Everybody says “ It’s cold.”
Many of the trees are leafless.
Bro. Thomas has a good trade.	’
“ Fight the good (not fist) fight.”
■ Quoiting has had a relapse recently.
We don’t see any fun in snow-balling.
Some make a “ square meal” at lunch.
The grass of the fields is turning yellow.
Navigation will soon close on the lakes.
Walks on recreation days are still popular.
The hunters march off equipped, two by two.
The Thespians are preparing for the Sth prox.
’Tis feared the purp will get the “ horse disease.”
The snow-storm last week was a storm in earnest. . The stove in the play-hall always attracts a crowd.
The Brother who delivers the letters has many listeners. -	' '	■
The recreation on Friday last was a good thing, and was enjoyed by all. -
THE scholastic:.
87
SAIHT MART’S ACADEMY.
St. Mary’s Academy, November 20, 1872.
ARRIVALS.
Miss Ida Hatch,'	Niles, Michigan.
. Miss Mita Hildreth,	Chicago, Illinois.
The names of those who deserve to be honorably mentioned in Music, Painting, Drawing and the Languages will only appear every two weeks. Those mentioned in English Classes the same.
For Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct Deportment and strict observance of Academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor (Sr. Dep’t) Nov. 17,1872.
Katie Zell, Alice Shea, Lizzie King, Lizzie Niel, Nellie Gross, Rose Devoto, Daisie Green, Mary Comer, Annie Lloyd, Julia Kearney, Mary Wicker, M. Letourneau, Sarah Shipley, Genevieve Walton Laura Weinreich, Helen Foote, Nellie Heedy, Louisa Pfeiffer, Edna Crawford, Lou Beckman, Ella Quinlan, Agnes Conahan, Belle Johnson, Anabel Stockton, Livinia Forrester, Josie Connors, Rose Klar, R. Manzanares, Henrietta Miller, Rose McKeaver, Nellie Hinkston,
Mary Cochrane, Katie Haymond, Minnie Lange, Mary Kearney, Vadie Ball, Mary Brown, Lillie West, Libbie Black, Mamie Prince, Minnie Quan, Bridget Grace, Agnes Church, Carrie Creveling, , Julia. Fanning, Agatha St. Clair, Mary Layfield, Belle Wade, Katie Miller, Katie Casey, Annie Reid, Mary Kelly, Maria Pinney, Mary Holcomb, Lillie Hull, Rebecca Marr, Emma White, Ella Drake, Mary Lyons, Lizzie Sheiber, Louisa Lilly, Mary Gregg.
Mary Lassen, Bibbie Crowley, Aline Todd, Annie M. Clarke, Ida Reynolds, Rose Spier, Gertie Crapser, Mittie Ward, Ida Wilder, Bay Reynolds, Jennie Tucker, Emily Plamondon, Nellie Ball, Annie T. Clarke, Esther Boyce, Annie O’Connor, Addie Hambleton, Rebecca Woolman, Lizzie Ritchie, Mary E. Roberts, Mary McGuire, Clara Germain, Hattie Newton, Sarah Chenoweth, Annie Eby, Mary White, Joanna Valdez, Angeline Monroe, Cannie Rishling, Fannie Snouffer,
Honorably Mentioned in English Studies. 1
Graduating Class—Misses K. Zell, M. Lassen A. Mast, A. Shea, K. Haymond, B. Crowley, L. King, M. Lange, A. Todd.
First Senior Class—Misses L. Niel, M. Kearney, A. M. Clarke, V. Ball, I. Reynolds, R. Devoto, M. Brown, D. Green, L. West, G. Crapser, M. Comer, L. Black, M. Ward, E. Haggarty.
Second Senior Class—Misses A. Lloyd, M. Prince, I. Wilder, J. Kearney, B. Reynolds, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, B. Grace, J. Tucker, K. Finley, M. Letourneau, A. Church.
Third Senior Class—Misses G. Creveling, N. Ball, J. Walton, A. Keeline, A. T. Clarke, L. Weinreich, M. Riley, J. Noonan, A. St. Clair, E. Boyce, H. Foote, H. McMahon, M. Layfield, A. O’Connor.
■ First Preparatory Class—Misses A. Hambleton, J. Walsh,
R. Woolman, L. Pfeiffer, K. Miller, L. Rush, L. Ritchie, L. Beckman, E. Ives, A. Reid. A. Conahan, M. Pinney.
Second Preparatory Class—Misses C. Germain, E. Burney, A. Stockton, S. Chenoweth, E. Howell, L. Forrester.
Second Division—Misses E. White, M. White.
Third Preparatory Class—Misses J. Valdez, R. Manzanares, N. McMahon, A. Monroe, H. Miller, L. Schibber, R. McKeaver, F. Snouffer, M. Gregg.
Tablet of Honor (Jr. Dep’t) Nov. 13,1872. '			-
E. Richardson,	K. Joyce,	L. Tinsley,	
M. Faxon,	E. Parker,	L. Harrison,	
L. McKinnon,	F. Lloyd,	A. Walsh,	
M. Hepp,	A. Gollhardt,	M. Martin,	
G. Kelly,	A. Lynch,	N. Vigil,	
E. Orton,	S. Lilly,	M. Brown,	
M. Walsh,	K. Schmidt,	J. Thompson,	
M. Thompson,	C. Smith,	L. Sbuerle,	
B. Hassler,	T. Cronin,	A. Noel,	
M. Reynolds,	A. Burney,	M. Gall,	
M. DeLong,	R. Hooley, '	A. Rose,	
M. Carlin,	C. Walker,	M. Ewing,	
A. Paulson,	B. Pfeiffer,	E. Jackson, .	
K. Hector,	E. Lappin,	E. Lang,	
A. Ewing,	K. Bolton,	D. Allen,	
E. Hassler,	M. Lowrey,	L. Walsh,	
M. Ware,	G. Hooley,	M. Hughes,	-
A. Green,	C. Hughes,	J. Tallman,	
	S. O’Maley.		
Honorably Mentioned in tut:
Second Senior Class—E. Richardson and A. Smith.
Third Senior Class—K. Joyce.
First Preparatory Class—L. Tinsley and M. Faxon.	:
Second Preparatory Class—E. Parker, L. Harrison, L. McKinnon, F. L'oyd, A. Walsh, M. Hepp, A. Golhardt, M. Martin, G. Kelly and A. Lynch.
Third Preparatory Class—N. Vigil, E. Orton and S. Lilly.
First Junior Class—M. Brown, M. Walsh, K. Schmidt, J. Thompson, M. Thompson, B. Hassler, T. Cronin, M. Reynolds, K. Lloyd, M. DeLong, R. Hooley, A. Rose, M. Carlin, C. Walker and M. Ewing.
Second Junior Class—A. Paulson, B. Pfeiffer, E. Jack-son, K. Hector, E. Lappin, E. Lang, A. Ewing, K. Boltin, D. Allen, E. Hassler, M. Lowrey, L. Walsh, S. Lynch, M. Ware and G. Hooley.
Third Junior Class—M. Hughes, C. Hughes, A. Green and J. Tailman.
"□ziiqiie Advertisements.
Such things as “ Found,—a gold gentleman’s watch,” or “a speckled lady’s mink muff,” will, continue to repeat themselves in various forms as long as the average man is educated to use his pen. The following late instances are collated. A man in St. Louis publishes this:
WANTED—A good girl to cook; one who will make a good roast or broil, and will stew well.
This reminds one, of the “ Want,” “ A competent maid to do the heavy work in an eating’ establishment,” which was answered by one who believed herself competent to do her-full-share in any eating establishment in- the coun
1
88
THE SCHOLASTIC.
try. “ Leastwise I haint never heered no complaint of my not heating suffeechent.”
The demand for plain cooks is, of course, familiar, as well as the indignation of the buxom country damsel at being taken for one. And then there is that inimitable epitaph on the victim of a pistol accident. “ Unintentionally shot by the premature discharge of a pistol in the hands of his brother—Colt’s revolver, six barrel, brass mounted—and of such is the kingdom of heaven.”
Meteorological.—It would appear that the clerk of the weather has closed his books for the “ Indian Summer ” and opened a “ six months’ set” The first entry has been made : it called forth overcoats and furs. But it does not appear that he has thoroughly made up his mind yet. It is early for winter to begin.
FOR EVERYBODY.
WEEKLY.
The Family Paper for the Coming Year,
ONLY FOUR DOLLARS A YEAR IN ADVANCE.
Liberally Conducted, Ably Edited, without Politics or Sect, it is a Journal for Everybody, a Welcome Visitor in.
luOEISTTItE HOUKS.
Four Elegant Chromos and 52 full-Fage Engravings
Given to Each Subscriber, and no Agent authorized to collect until Chromos are delivered.
The New Weekly will retain all the prominent features of the Present Monthly form, and combine with them the best of other journals, making it emphatically The Family Faper of Amer* ica. Its contents will be varied, and our aim is to secure the best efforts of Home writers, uniting with them the gems of other countries. It will give more reading matter in a year than any Four Dollar Magazine or Paper.
Each Number will contain an Elegant Full-Page Engraving on heavy toned paper, exceeding in value any Chromos or Lithographs ever offered as premiums,—but we place ourselves beyond competition, for, in addition, Four Elegant Chromos will be given to Each Subscriber. No cheap Lithographs, or worn-out plates, but full Chromos, made expressly, and can only be obtained by subscription. No Agent is authorized to collect subscriptions until the Chromos are delivered, so that each subscriber gets what is paid for. They can be framed, or bound in the Volumes, thus removing the objection raised by many; for no one objects to the elegance of a bound volume merely because others may have it.
No. 1- The French Canadian.—A Character sketch, from an original painting by Krieghoff, the eminent artist, whose “ Lumbering in Canada ” elicited universal admiration at the Paris Exposition, and was finally purchased by Emperor Louis Napoleon for Fifty Thousand francs.
No. 2. Daisy.—We do not claim this Design as original, but ours is the first Chromo. The original painting is by Knaus, of Berlin, and the steel representation has become the most popular and commands the highest price of any of its size ever imported. The coloring for our Chromo is by the eminent artist Fabronius, whose Crayon Portraits and Color Sketches are so well known in all the large cities. In adopting this as one of our Series, we only adhere to our rule of selecting the best wherever found.
No. 3. The First Commissioner of Excise.—This is a Companion piece to Number 1, and by the same artist (Krieghoff). The two form the finest pair of Dining Boom .Chromos ever published.
No. 4. The Dip.—From a Photograph from life, and colored in Oil. It will speak for itself, and every heart will warm toward the little Brunette of seven summers, whose sweet face and graceful ‘•pose’’ form the subject. As a Companion for No. 2, they form a pair of Parlor Chromos “ too sweet for anything."	'
Title-Pan-es —Two elegant Engraved Title-Pages will be furnished each year, tor our interest is greatly advanced by the certainty that our paper will be preserved and bound.
Our Price.—Other Publishers said we could not afford a paper like our present Monthly for Two Dollars a Year, but our subscribers know that we hove done so; and inspite of prediction that we certainly cannot retain its expensive features and furnish more than four times as many numbers for only twice the price, we say we will do it, and the presentation of the Chromos in advance is evidence that we mean what we say,
Four Dollars a Vsar. Payable in Advance.
Send Three-Cent Stamp for Sample Copy.
HESRT H. SAGE, {3236s
WOOD'S HOUSEHOLD MAGAZINE.
A fs-TRTV’T'W may learn something greatly to their advantage and obtain specimens and full particulars free, by addressing Woon’s Literary and Art Agency, Newburgh, New York.
Chicago, Alton and St. Louis Line
CyfRAINS leave West Side Union Depot,'Chicago, near Mad-lip ison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, HL, and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Hl., ana Louisiana, Mo.
LEAVE. arrive.
*9:15 a.m. *8:00 p.m.
♦9:15 a.m. *4:30 p.m.
♦9:15 a.m. *4:30 p.m.
*4:10 p.m. *9:40 a.m.
+6:30 p.m. *4:30 p.m.
$9:00 p.m. ■ 17:15 a.m.
4:9:00 p.m. §7:15 a.m.
* Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only. $ Except Saturday. J Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO.	CHICAGO.
PEAXSYLVAMA CENTRAL DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New
York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m Arrives at New York 11 30 a. m* 2d train “	“	5.15 p. m “	“	6 41 a. m*
3rd train “	“	9.00 p. m “	“	11.30 p. m*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and at Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
9. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
H. W. GWINNER, Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia.
F. R. MYERS, Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Ag’t. Pittsburgh.
* Second day.
L. S. & M. 8. RAILWAY.
ACTCMN ARRANGEMENT.
ZJVRAINS now leave South Bend as follows:
GOING	EAST.
Leave South Bend 10 30 a. m.	» Arrive at Buffalo 4.05 a. m
“	“	12.25 p. m.	“	“	4 05 a. m
“	“	9.20 p. m.	“'	“	1 35 p. m
“	“	12 37 a. m.	“	“	5 30 p. m
“	“	8.20 p.m.	Runs to Elkhart.
GOING	WEST.
Leave South Bend 4 53 p. in.	Arrive at Chicago 8 20 p. m
“	“	2 55 a. m.	“	“	6.50 a. m
“	“	5.00 a. m.	“	“	8.20 a. m
“	“	5 55 p m.	“	“	9.40 p. m
“	“	6.37 a. m.	“	“	10.30 n to
Making connection with all trains West and North.	
4S* For full details, see the Company’s posters and time tables at the	
depot and other public places.	
XS- Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes faster than South Bend time. .
J. H. DEVEREUX. General Manager, Cleveland, Ohio.
CHARLES PAINE. General Superintendent, Cleveland.
J. W. Cary, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland,’ Ohio.
J. S. Nellis, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
J, M. Tolchard, Freight Agent, South Bend.
NEW ALBANY CEOSSING.
To Lafa ette and Louisville.
Going North—Express passenger, 6.09 p. m.; 8.58 a. m.; 5.29 a m Freights, 6.30 a.m.; 8.06 p.m.
Going South—Express passenger,8.58a.m.; 10.46a.m.; 9.25p m Freights, 1.00a.m.; 4.48a.m.	H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
