@ 1) c	tic tjcnv
T*TJTSIL<ISmEI> WEEKLY jVT NOTRE T>AMT\ UmM iff tlw Hutmsits of the jHtttkHfs.
“ ZLAJBOIt OMNEA VINCIT.”
Vol. II. UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, IND., OCTOBER 31,„ 1868. . No. 9.
The Study of. Philosophy, as an Element in Education.
BY FANCIULLO.
Part I.—EDUCATION IN GENERAL.
No. II.—Moral Education.
Since morality essentially consists in. the conformity of our acts with the law of our being, as established by the Creator; and since thie subject matter of this law is the relations which exist between the individual, his Creator and Jus fellowbeings, and the consequent obligations which result from these relations, it follows that by moral Education, as distinct from the mental and physical, is meant the development of our moral faculties, with a view to the understanding of these relations, and the fulfilling of the obligations which follow from them; for it is by fulfilling these obligations that we perform our duty towards God, our neighbor and ourselves, and thereby obtain the ultimate end of our being, which constitutes the chief object of all morality. The result which we seek by moral Education is obtained; first, by exercising the mind in the leading principles on which the various branches of morality are based, until it has become capable of applying these principles readily and correctly to the individual facts comprised in these various branches, and secondly, by training the will to such a degree of firmness as will enable it to exercise complete control over the passions, affections and inclinations of the soul, rendering them obedient to the dictates of right reason and a correct sense of duty; for thus only will we be able to direct all our acts, whether internal or. external, to their proper or legitimate objects, and render them conformable to the law of our being, and without this ability our moral Educa
tion would be sadly defective, and become rather a source of disquietude and injury than of happiness and advantage as it ought to be.
From this explanation of the nature of moral Education, it will be readily perceived, that the faculties which we call moral, are substantially the same as those which we designated as mental faculties, and that they derive their name of moral faculties, when employed in the investigation of moral principles and their application to . individual facts, from the peculiar nature of the subject matter with which they are concerned,, just as we confer different titles upon a man according to his particular profession or occupation : he will be -styled a physician, if devoted to the medical profession; a lawyer, if engaged in the legal profession, &c., and hence, when we speak of the moral faculties, we mean simply the mental faculties employed in the investigation of moral truths. Yet, the exercise of any one of . these faculties may be more important in one department than in the other, as, for instance, the exercise of the will, though of great importance in mental Education, being the-faculty which enables us to pursue our labors with perseverance, yet is of still greater importance in moral Education, especially in the practical part of it, since perseverance in this is more difficult, being quite opposed, in many cases, to our natural propensities, and consequently requiring greater strength of will to execute the commands of reason.
Moral Education, like mental, is divided into subordinate departments, accordingto the branches of morality which it embraces. These, however, may . be reduced to two principal departments; namely, the Dogmatic and the Ethical', or, in other words, the Doctrinal and the Practical. The former is a complexion of the truths which, from our nature, orign, relations and destiny, we are bound to believe, and this comprises many special branches of doctrine, dr species of truth; as, for instance,
G6	‘	tTHE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
that species of truth which refers especially to God, His nature‘and essential attributes; that which refers to His external acts, or creation, of which man himself forms a part; that which refers to the worship, which, from the very nature of things, we are bound to render our Creator, &c. The latter is a collection of principles, derived from these fundamental truths of doctrine, and are calculated to regulate our will and direct it to the choice and accomplishment of that which is good, or that which is conformable with our duty towards God, our neighbor and ourselves. This department also comprises • many special branches; as, for instance, General Ethics, which investigates the fundamental principles, on which morality, in general, is based, and Special Ethics, which comprises the secondary principles, according to which these fundamental principles are applied to all our human acts, that is all the acts which we perform as free and intelligent beings, in the various states or conditions of life in which we may be placed. Hence, it will be seen that Special Ethics embraces as many distinct branches as there are different states in life, as each state has a code of morals peculiar to itself in addition to the general code which is binding upon all. Thus there is a special code for children in their relations to their parents; another for parents in their relations- to their children; another still for magistrates in their relations to society, and so of the other conditions in life.
That our moral Education may be complete, in the strict sense, it must embrace all the different branches of morality, both in the Dogmatic and Ethical departments; for, otherwise, there would be some portion of morality to which we would be unable to apply the fundamental principles, and, consequently, our Education in this respect ^ould be incomplete, or partial. But a strictly, complete moral Education, like a strictly complete mental Education, is generally impossible, on account of the great extent and variety of subject matter which it comprehends;. hence we may, in general, say that our moral Education is complete, when we have so mastered the leading principles as to be able to apply them correctly to all our acts, in the special state of life in which we may be placed. But even this species of completeness is sometimes very difficult of attainment, and hence, in such cases, all that is strictly required is a partial Education in this department, and this degree, at least, all are positively obliged to obtain, unless certain peculiar and im. avoidable circumstances render it impossible for
them to,do so. Moreover, this partial Education, which all arc obliged to obtain, must be sufficiently extensive to embrace all the more important truths which we are bound to-believe, and enable us to perform all our more important acts in strict accordance with the fundamental principles of morality. We are then said to believe implicitly all truths of minor importance, of whose existence we may be ignorant, that is, we are supposed to be in a disposition to believe them if made known to us, and our good will is accepted instead of explicit belief, provided, of course, our ignorance is not wilful. Wc are also said, in such cases, to perform all our acts of minor importance implicitly in accordance with the principles of morality, although, through ignorance of their real tendency, their conformity with these principles may be, in some respects, defective. But, that this implied rectitude may be applicable to our less important acts, there must be no doubt in our mind that the act which we are about to perform is morally correct; for when there is such a doubt, there is reason to fear that the act may be morally wrong, and if we perform that act while the doubt continues, we wilfully expose ourselves to do a moral wrong, and therefore render ourselves culpable, since the will is the measure of the morality of our individual acts.	—
Now, if we consider the great importance— the necessity, in fact—of believing and acting conformably with the principles of sound morality, we will at once see the applicability of what we have already said respecting doubtful acts, and also of what we are about to say respecting the course to be pursued in such cases; for, without a knowledge of the modus operandi, in this particular, our moral Education will not be as complete as the nature of the case strictly requires. What then is he bound to do, who is in doubt as to the morality of a particular act ? To answer this question properly, we must distinguish three species of doubt. First, a doubt as to the obligation of a certain act, the performance of which is contrary to our inclination ; secondly, a doubt as to the licitness of a free act which we feel inclined to perform, and thirdly, the mixed doubt, which occurs when two obligations, distributively certain, that is when taken separately, are brought into conflict by force of circumstances. Thus a Catholic is bound by the law of the Church to fast on certain days, and he is also bound by the law of nature to preserve his life and health. Now if his
fl*


THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.*	67	
physical condition is such that there would be some fear of danger to his life or health in fasting, he will be in doubt as to which of these obligations he ought to fulfil, and. this is called a mixed doubt. Of course, if the danger of any serious injury is certain or even very probable, there will be no cause for doubt, because, except in some very special cases, a natural obligation, al ways takes precedence of a positive one. In the first species of doubt, a person is obliged either to perform the act of doubtful obligation, whatever his inclination to the contrary, or remove his doubt before he refuses such performance. In the second case he is bound to abstain from the act until his doubt has been removed. In the third he is bound to fulfil the positive obligation or remove his doubt as to its present application in his case. The reason for this last is, that a positive obligation is generally more opposed to our natural inclinations, and we are liable to avoid it without sufficient reason. We see, therefore, that the principal requisite in all these cases is to remove our doubt. But how is this to be done ? The most convenient and best way is to consult some one whose Education in this department is more thorough than our own, and on whose judgment and sincerity we can rely. If such person is not an authorised teacher of these subjects, we should ascertain his reason for the decision which he gives, and on these reasons form our judgment as to whether our doubt was well grounded or not. If these reasons are sufficient to remove the doubt, then we may safely follow his advice. But if that person is an authorised teacher, it will be unnecessary (although it might be more satisfactory) to know his reasons; .for we must presume that he does not give a decision Without knowing that it is correct, since it is his duty to instruct others on these points, which he could not conscientiously do unless he understood them thoroughly. In this latter case we not only may, but we must follow the advice we receive, at least ’ where there is question of an obligation. It was for this reason that our Blessed Redeemer said to His Apostles: “Hethat heareth you heareth me, and he that despiseth you despiseth mebecause the Apostles, in accordance with their office as teachers, were bound to know more thoroughly than men in general the doctrines _ and principles of morality and their application, as also those who occupy'their place at the present day are bound to know them, and hence our Blessed Redeemer makes Himself responsible for	the decisions which they give; “ He that heareth you heareth me.” Again the Apostles and their successors, by their appointment as teachers received authority to make known these doctrines and principles to others; and as every lawful authority supposes a corresponding obligation of obedience, those who did not understand these things as well as the Apostles did were bound to receive and follow their connseis. The same obedience is due to lawful teachers in our own day, and any disobedience to them in these matters is a disobedience to Christ Himself: “He that despiseth you, despiseth me.” I have spoken somewhat at length on this point of “doubt in morality,” on account of its great importance in moral Education, although it does not strictly belong to the special view which we are taking of the subject, which refers principally to the nature, object and divisions of this department of Education; however, its important bearing upon the subject itself will excuse the digression. We now come to the consideration of our third department—Physical Education.	’ 4 Written after Dark.	. He was wealthy and young and of noble blood, But ever beside luni a specter stood. When he rode to the hnnt with hound and horse The specter followed his head-long course. When he mounted the castle’s winding stair The specter’s step for each step was there. When he sat at the feast in his father’s hall, Up loomed before him the specter tall.	. Its look struck terror—its glance affright, Though none but he saw the fearsome sight.	. Men called him merry—men thought him gay While his raven locks were turning grey. It brought him at length to his cold death-bed And it hovered in triumph above his head.	' • And above his grave, when they laid him there, . Did the specter dance to a mocking air. -While it wrote on the stone, with fiendish glee, “ Judge no man happy by what ye see.” ’ S. 	— To every man there are many dark hours, when . he feels inclined to abandon his best enterprises; hours when his heart’s dearest hopes appear ’ delusive; hours when he feels himself unequal to the burden, when all his aspirations seem worthless. Let no one think that he alone has dark hours. They are the common lot of humanity. They are the touchstone to try whether we ore current coin or not.	.	,
68	'THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	
CoLLEGE BtJI^XZETXN.	O’Neil, 5; H. O’Neil, 5; J. Parnell, 3; B. F. Roberts’, 5; G. Redfield, 6; J. F. Ryan, 8; J. Rumley, 5; R. Staley, 8; F. Spencer, 4; N. Terrell, 3; P. Tinan, 6; J. A. Thompson, 4; A. Trentman, 3; Z. Venderveer, 5 ; L. Wilson, 5; J.^ Wilson, 8; D. J. Wile, 5; A. Wetherbee, 5; J. Ward, 3; C. Walters, 7. SENIOR DEPARTMENT.' R. L. Akin, 4; L Buddeke, 5; W. M. Bird, 4; . F. Crapser, 6; J. Curran, 4; D. Clarke, 6; S. Corby, 4; D. W. Coonce, 5; J. Duffy, 5; J. Dickinson, 3; J. Diemer, 5; J. Eisenman, 6; H. Eisenman, 4; P. Fitzpatrick, 4; E. Fitzharris, 3; J. Garrity, 4; E. Gambee, 5; J. Garharstine, 6; C. Herticb, 7; Wm. Hoynes, 3; J. Harrison, 3; T. Heery, 3; E. Hagan, 6; C. Ilgenfritz, 4; T. Kinsella, 4; H. Keeler, 5; J. Lecompte, 9; J. Mader, 6: A. Maierhoffer, 3; J. Monroe, 4; A. Menard, 3; H. Morancy, 7; J. McGlynn, 3; J. Minnich, 6; J. McClain, 3; T. O’Mahoney, 6 ; T. O’Neil, 3 ; C. Parker, 3 ; Geo. Price, 4; J. H. Roby, 3; A. J. Reilly, 5,; M. S. Ryan, 5; J. P. Rogers, 3; W. H. Sangster, 4; N. Schnelker, 5 ; J. P. Sewell, 3; C. Sage, 4; L. Schmeider, 4; C. Stuart, .3; D. Tighe, 3; B. Vocke, 5; J. Vocke, 4; W. Walker, 5; W. Waldo, 3; H. Wrape, 3; T. Wood, 3; A. B. White, 4; C. Wenger, 4; T. Watson, 3; G Webb, 3; J. Zahm, 5. w	• Departure of Very Rev. Father General for Europe.—The duties of' Very Reverend Father Sorin in his new office as General will necessitate frequent visits to Europe and consequent temporary absences from the home of science he has founded in the West, and which we may fairly assume to be the home of his, choice. His departure on Wednesday last was understood to be the beginning of one of these temporary absences, and formed an appropriate occasion for the students of the University to manifest their goodwill and respect towards its founder in the form of a public ovation. He was met on the threshold of the main building by the three departments in a body, the Notre Dame University Cornet Band opening with one of their most harmonious and soul-stirring airs. An address, read by Mr. James Cunnea, expressed the good feeling of the whole body, of students towards Very Rev. Father Sorin, with sincere wishes for his prosperous voyage and speedy, and safe return. The honored re-, cipient of these compliments replied in his. gracious and fatherly, style, manifesting both in.
jVrriVal of Students at W. Dame. OCTOBER 27TH. Thomas Downing,	Little Traverse, Mich. October 28th. Laurence Maierhoffer, Chicago, Hl. October 29th.	' George H. Hatchett,	Henderson, Ky. .	October 30th.	. Joseph Kloetzle,	Lafayette, Ind. October 31st. Edward Odendahl,	Fulton,	Hl. Hobert Odendahl,	“	“ William Odendahl,	Rock	Island.	Ill. Michael A. Spillard,	Elgin, Ill. P. E. Walter,	Chicago, Ill. . Bulletins and Certificates.	. The Bulletins for the month of September and the first part of October have been made out and sent to the parents during the course of the week. Although we intend making the bulletins every month, still we had to delay somewhat the first ones in order that the students’ proficiency and application could be sufficiently known and the notes on their bulletins justly deserved. The certificates for good conduct and improvement in class were awarded last week to the students of the Junior and Senior Departments. We give below the names of those who deserved three and upwards. JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. T. Arrington, 3; J. Alber, 5; L. Billings, 4; •H. Beakey, 3 ; D. Bland, 6; M.-Brannock, 6 ; J. Broderick, 4; F. Bulger, 5; C. Berdel, 3; R. Broughton, 6; E. Bahm, 3; D. Cooney, 5; P. Cochrane, 3; A. Cabel, 4; J. Crevoisier, 3 f J. Coppinger, 5; G. Combs, 4; W. Clarke, 4; J. Dooley, 7; C. Duffey, 6; J. Doherty, 3; W. Dugdale, 4,; Ji Deehan, 3; D. Egan, 7; J. Goodhue, 3; V. Hackmann, 5 ; J. Hamblin, 4; G. Hug, 4; H. Hug, 4; L. Hilsendegen, 4; B. Heffernan, 4; . J: Klein, 7; G. Kahman, 5; J. Krauth, 3; D, Lauferty, 3; Ff Ingersoll, 7; J. Johnson, 3; L Meirs, 4; H Morgan, 5; Mi Mahoney, 3; R. McCarthy, 7; J. Mulhall, 4; J. McGuire, 6; C. Marantette, 5; G. McCartney, 3,; J. Nash, 6; F. Nicholas, 3; E. O’Bryan, 5; M. Ody, 3; C. J.	
I
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.'
69
choice of words and expression, his well-known power of winning the hearts of all those with whom he comes in contact. The Band leading the way, and the students forming an escort of honor, the Very Rev. Father General then proceeded in his carriage to the railway depot from which he was to start. He is expected to return* in Spring.
Musical Spiree.
The Orchestra of the University, paid an agreeable visit to the study-room of the Senior students, last Thursday evening. Such a visit was foreseen and desired by the students, who previously had been made aware by Rev. Father Superior, that from time to time concerts would be held for their benefit..
It was a good thought that originated this idea, for not only will the Students derive pleasure from such musical entertainments, but they will be enabled to refine their taste and conceive a higher opinion of the classical music of our great masters.
The following pieces were executed during the soiree: 1st.—Finale of 4th Haydn Symphony; 2d—Prize Waltz; 3d—Minuetto, Haydn; 4th— Grand Mazurka; 5th—Empress Waltz; 6th—Ka-lif de Bagdad; 7th—Gallop; 8th—Labitz Kyz Waltz; 9th—Imperial Gallop.
We need not say that each of the above selections was received with great applause by the large audience. There was an evident expression of satisfaction beaming on the countenance of all, proving that they had been well pleased and felt thankful to those who had been agents in procuring this delightful recreation.
As such concerts may be looked for from time to time, if they prove acceptable to the Students and be no hindrance to their studies, or cause of disorder in a place consecrated to. silence, we will suggest the following hints.
If Ike should attend these musical entertainments—somewhat derogating to his habits and not altogether in accordance with his musical taste—we would advise the committee, under whose management the orchestral performances are given, to invite Ike to take a walk for an hour or so. It will save the guests the mortification of hearing the stamping of his boots on the floor of the study-room and especially of giving unnecessary applause to the gentlemen of the orchestra whilst they retreat from the study-room.
Ike does not know that a respectful bow and a silent, smiling face are the last signs of a cordial au revoir from the host who sees his guests at the door. ----------------------
. Union is Strength.
Mr. Editor :—Believing in the truth of the proposition enunciated in the above caption, the members of the St. Edward’s Literary Association tendered an invitation to the members of the St. Aloysius Philodemic Literary Association to attend a meeting in common with them for the purpose of adopting measures for public displays in their special department, that thus they might confer a mutual benefit on one another, and extend the advantages of their literary efforts to those of their fellow-students, who do not belong to any of the literary Associations. The members of the last mentioned Association cheerfully accepted this invitation. The meeting was held on Saturday, October 24th, and the following arrangement adopted. The members of both Associations will unite twice a month; viz: on the second Wednesday morning for the purpose of conducting in common and in public, the exercises of the mock court, at which Prof. M. F. Colovin will be invited to preside as judge, and on the last Tuesday evening for the purpose of discussing publicly a question agreed upon by the Presidents of both Associations. At this debate Rev. Father Superior will be invited topreside. The operatives of the “Court” and the debaters will be so arranged that the honors and defeats may be equally divided between both Associations. With the exception of these two meetings each month, the two Associations will remain, as hitherto, distinct from each other, and pursue their respective objects separately.
The aggregate members in both Associations is at present, thirty-eight all considerably advanced in their studies, eager for their further improvement, and generously disposed to share with others, who do not possess their advantages, the fruits of their knowledge and study. With such material, and such dispositions, we certainly anticipate some brilliant displays of argumentative eloquence and acuteness during the present scholastic year.
I take occasion here to remark that up to the present time there has been, and I trust always shall be, considerable rivalry between the two Literary Associations, each endeavoring to be
70
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
superior in attainments and reputation for propriety to the other; but this rivalry has been and will no doubt continue to be of that generous character which knows how to appreciate and respect the efforts and success of an opponent while it strives to excel him.
Special Reporter.
The Retreat.
The Papal Order for a Triduum in all catholic congregations is now being complied with at Notre Dame,, and the students of the University have gone into retreat, the better to perform the solemn duty enjoined on them of assisting by their prayers the Holy Father surrounded by his enemies. Rt. Rev. Dr. Elder; Bishop of Natchez, is conducting the retreat, and his eloquent and beautiful exhortations are, we hope, fast leading all hearts to Him that gave the eloquence so well employed in His service. The retreat will terminate with the general Communion on. to-morrow morning, being the Festival of All* Saints. The fervent prayers of so many Christian and Catholic hearts united for a common and praiseworthy object, will not fail to draw forth some striking interference of Divine Providence, in favor of the Vicar of His Son.
Acknowledgment.—The St. Edward’s Literary Association gratefully acknowledge the receipt of the “ Galignani Messengers ” sent us by the Hon. P. B. Ewing of Lancaster, O., and sincerely thank the Hon. gentleman for the kind interest which he manifests in our young Association.
H. B. Keeler, Sec’y.
St. Cecilia Philomathean.
The 7th regular meeting of this Society was held on Sunday evening, Oct 25th. After the usual preliminaries, Masters Redfield and Mulhall read their respective essays for membership, viz.: “A trip to Detroit,” and “On the respect which we owe to our Parents,” this latter by Master Mulhall deserves especial mention for the masterly manner in which the subject was treated and fine sentiment expressed.
This being the evening for the Debate, the following subject was discussed, Resolved “ That the Indians do possess a right to the soil.” Masters Ryan, Foote, Wilson, Wetherbee and Mahoney on the affirmative and Masters Wile, McCarthy, Coppinger, Dooley, Nicholas and McHugh on the negative. At the close of the debate which was conducted with much spirit on both sides, the President gave his decision in favor of the affirmative.
The subject for the next debate was then given out, Resolved “That the Pen is mightier than the Sword,” the following gentlemen being apointed to conduct it, affirmatives, Messers Foote, J. Wilson, Mahoney, Wetherbee, L Wilson, Staley and Deehan; negatives Messrs McCarthy, Coppinger, Dooley,’ Nicholas, Clark, McHugh and Cochrane.
^AINT ^ARY’S ^CADEMY.
Saint Mart’s, October 27th, 1868.
•A-X’i’rvals.
4	.1 ■ .
Oct. 21st—Miss V. Brown, Kirksville, Mo.;
Oct. 25th—Miss M. Minor, Village Creek, Iowa;
Oct. 26 th—Miss H. Chamberlain, Elkhart, Indiana.
Talxle of Honor, jSi".
Misses N. Thompson, N. Wilder, L. Chouteau W. Corby, A. Walker, M. Kiawin, A. Wiley, M. Foote, K. Zell, M. Cline, E. Ritter, C. Hoeber, L. Lewis.
Honorable Mention.
Graduating Class: Misses L. and L. Tong, E. Longsdorf, K. Livingston, K. Cunnea, E. Crouch, A. Ewing, M. Toomey, F. Hasner, J. Hines.
First Glass Sr. : Misses A. Carmody,' A. Cunnea, A. Radin, N. Tabor, A. Marshal, O. Brady, E. Kirwin, M. Morrill, N. Tracy, J. Dobson, M. Claffey, E. Ewing, M. Carraher, R. Mukautz, A._ Darcy, M. Johnson, E. Carr, M. Alexander, M. Walton, L. Lewis, L. McManmon, C. Davenport.
Second, Class Sr.: Misses M. Edwards, E. Bland, R. Rettig, C. Foote, E. Lindsay, L. English, A. Bryson, L. and N. Leoni, A. Carpenter, M. King, A. Heckman, K. Carpenter, T. Vanhorn.
Third Class Sr.: Misses F. Butters, H. Niel, E. Plamondon, A. Boyle, J. Chesebro, N. Simms, H. Higgins, E. Ruger, E. Scott, M. Sherland, K. Kent, A. Fulwilder, S. Beebe.
First Preparatory: Misses A. Mast, S. O’Brien, A. Lyons, F. Stevens, J. Gettings, M. Rumely, E. Darst, J. Lonergan, S. Coffee, E. Henry, M. Van Horn, C. Warner.
Second Preparatory : Misses J. Davis, A. Mim-mic, A. Ainsworth, E. Simms.
Third Preparatory: Misses L. Blaizy, M. Clune, M. Coffee, A. Matthews, J. Byers, J. Davis.
Instrumental Music.
Piano, First Class: Misses C. Foote, J. Hynds. Second Division: M. Sherland, A. Mulhall. Harp: Misses E. Longsdorf, C. Davenport. Piano, Second Class : N. Tracy, A. Ewing.
Piano, Third Glass:. Miss E. Ewing.
r
X.
.j
IF
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	,71	
’	Ebench. First Glass: Misses K. Livingston, A. Carmody. Second Glass: Misses A. Alexander, C. Davenport, A. Mulhall, C. Carpenter. Third Glass ; Misses M. Toomy, N. Tracy. Second Div.: S. Thomson, A. Badin. German. First Glass : Misses E. Crouch, R. Mukautz. Second Div.: M. Alexander, L. English, A. Wiley. Drawing	- First Class: Misses E. Bland, J. Dobson, C. Heckman, L. Lewis, E. Vurwan. • □Table of Honor, Ji*. Misses A. Clarke, S. Dunbar, L. Jones, L. Kiel, J. Wilder, M. Roberts, M. O’Meara, A. Robson, B. Wilson, B. Henry, M. Vaughn. Honorable Mention. First Preparatory Glass : Miss L. McKenney. Second Preparatory Glass : Misses M. Durant, A. Boyles. Third Preparatory Glass : M. Letournau, B. Meyers, A. Metzger. First Junior Glass: Misses M. and L. McLam-ara, M. Nash, M. Moon, J. Walton, B. Fensdorf, A. Longley, A. Byrne. Second Junior Glass: Misses R. Carroll, A. Garrity, M; Runolds, J. Strieby, K. Foreman. . [For The Scholastic Year—Communicated.] ’	Saint Mary's, October 26, 1868. Believing that the parents of our Juniors and Minims feel a lively interest in the^sayings and doings of these interesting little ladies, we here give the names of those who took prominent parts in the entertainment given on “ St. Edward’s Day.”	■ Junior’s Programme. Grand Entrance March—By whole Junior and Minim Department. Address to Very Rev. Father General—L. Kiel. Introduction of new Juniors to Very Rfev. Father —(Names given below). ’ Prologue	Miss	L. Jones Poetess	  Miss	A. Boyles School Marm	Miss	A.Garrity.	Storekeeper	Miss	M. Nash Artist	Miss	M. Sherland ■ Butterfly	  Miss	E. Dunbar , Housekeeper		 .Miss L. McNamara Leader of Fashion	Miss M. Letourneau . Lectures on Juvenile Rights	Miss A. Robson Grandmother.			 Miss	A. Byrne •	Introductions., Very Rev. Father General:—We know that you have seen our new comers many times, but as they have never been officially presented to : you we take this happy occasion of performing that ceremony. We will nowcommence:	. By Miss Anna Garrity:—	: With ths joy of the Minims, Bittle pet Minnie Vaughn, She’s as sweet as a rose,	- ■	But as shy as a fawn. . She comes here from Jackson, In Michigan State;	' And if some years longer You patiently wait, You’ll see little Minnie,	. A tall graduate. By Miss Addie Metzgar:— Little Alice Robson—Watago, Illinois, She’s solid in merit and avoirdupois; She’s a good studious girl, she’U be learned and wise, But there’s lots of droll humor peeping out of her eyes.	' By Miss Anna Garrity:—	’	■	■ ■ From Trenton, New Jersey, Here comes a sweet child; Obedient and studious,	. Playful and mild. Her name’s “ Bridget Wilson,”	. I am almost quite sure, Rev. Father, you’ve heard Her name once before.	. By Miss A. Byrnes:—	- .	From Chicago here comes Little Alice DeCamp;	’ She has as you see, ’	The real western stamp. Ever ready for study, Labor or play;	• In fine, anything That comes in her way.	- • By Miss J. Waltons—	•	. Here is a good quiet girl, she’s a little bit shy, , Because she’s a stranger she’ll be at home by-and-by; Her name's Mary Roberts, perhaps you don’t know,	’ That she comes from Columbus, In that great western State of Ohio.	- By Miss J. Walton:—	. ' From Cleveland, Ohio, Here comes a young Taylor,	' Whose wits and good temper	’	' ,	Ara ne’er known to fail her.	- ‘	She’s a favorite with all, _	'	' A dear little lass,	.	- She’s merry at playtime	■	• •And—di Wo in Class. • '	- .
72	'	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
Now, Father excuse me, I almost forgot;	. .
To say she’s a Taylor, A tailor she’s not;
Now, this fact though queer
Is easily seen, Her name’s “ Francos Taylor,” That’s what I mean.
By Miss M. Nash:—
From that illustrious city, enterprising South Bend, • Whose ambitious inhabitants fully intend
To spread themselves out from Laporte to Bertrand; * Here comes a young lady, little Mary Durand.
She aims at the crown quite ambitious indeed I We wish her success; we hope she’ll succeed 1	.
For ’twould add.very much to South Bend’s renown, To have a South Bender receive the first crown.
By Miss Lizzie Niel:—
Here’s a bright little Junior, Whose classical head
Is decked with gold tresses, (Now please don’t call them red).
.	- You see she looks lively,
Energetic and neat;
She has fun in her head And dance in her feet.
“Miss Lillian Jones,”
Is this young maiden’s name;
From Columbus, Ohio, - She comes to win fame ’Mong our brilliant scholastics And geniuses rare,	■
And hopes all their classical Honors to share. .
By Miss M. Moon:—
From the far fertile West, from Omaha city, I present you two maidens—gay, studious and witty; By name McNamara, little Lizzie and Mary, You’ll ne’er find these maidens cross or contrary.
By Miss Anna Boyles:—
Here’s a dear good Junior, Obedient and mild, And yet, strange to say, She’s called worse than wild, Because she’s Miss Wilder;
Now I think it’s a shame
That her fair fame is marred On account of her name.
She comes from Chicago
Remember, no one could be milder, Notwithstanding she’s called, ‘	- Little Ida M. Wilder. . •
By Miss Anna Boyles:—	•
When I spoke of Miss Wilder, ’twas sad, now ’tis sadder, For though some children are bad, this one is still .Bader;
She’s a paradox too, though she’s bad she’s good, And a number one in her classes has stood; ’ She comes from Laporte. We’d all feel much gladder If we were as gentle as little Madeline Bader.
By Miss Anna Clarke:—
Stella in Latin, you know, means a star, Well here’s a bright twinkier, little Stella Dunbar;
She has come here from Brooklyn, in the great Empire State, To remain till she proves a star graduate.
By Miss A. Metzgar;—	.	*
The Woods all agree to form a shady retreat
For children and birdies from sunshine and heat;
But in winter the woods look cheerless you know, When stripped of their verdure and covered with snow. -
But St. Mary’s can boast of “A. Woods” ever gay, Miss Ada H. Woods—just as pleasant as May. About other woods let us not make a fuss, Since A. Woods of Missouri has now’ come to ns.
By Miss A. McKinney:—	.
Little L. Thomson is the sweet little daughter
Of Mr. J. Thomson of Chicago, from which place he brought her,
To sllare with her sister the care and affection
Of teachers and pupils. ’Tis a pleasing reflection, That when girls at St. Mary’s a few sessions spend, * They are eager to bring back a sister or friend.	-
By Miss Emma Boyles:—
Here’s Miss Bettie Frensdorf, from Battle Creek, Mich., She’s as merry and playful as we Juniors could wish, She comes with Miss Meyers, her’good little cousin, I wish of such Juniors, we had five or six dozen.
By Miss A. McKinney:—	-
Little Maggie Letourneau, she hails from Detroit,
You’ll find her prepared for any exploit
That’s noble and good, that needs patience and tact, She’s the niece of her uncle; that’s a serious feet.
By Miss M. Nash:—	'
Little Nancy J. Strieby, she comes from Ligonier To join us young Minims and graduate here;
She’s a good little girl; and in time she will pass
From the Minim department to the very first class.
By Miss A. Byrnes:—
Way, way from the far west, near where the sun sets, Comes little Bell Henry the dearest of pets.
From Cheyenne, Dacotah, where the railroads now end, This “Bell of the West” has come here to spend Many years in pursuit of classical lore,	‘
I wish of such Bells we had a full chime or more.
St. Joseph’s Academy, South Bend.
The following young ladies deserve honorable mention for punctual attendance, perfect lessons and ladylike deportment:
First Class Sr.—Misses C. Shultz, S. Archam-beau and C. Peffer.
Second Class—Misses A. Wheeler, E. Keyes and K. Esby. '
Third, Class—Misses M. Hart and A. Treanor.
First Intermediate Sr.—Misses. E. Elbell and M. Wilkeson.
Second Intermediate—Misses C. Dunham and C. Wilkeson.
First Class Jr.—Misses E. Fagely and I. Fagely.
Second Class—Misses E. Esby and M. O’Day.
Third Class—Misses J. Maher and E. Hartman.
Minims—Misses A. Knoblock and 8. Gillen.
Music First Class—Misses H. Knoblock and J. Comparette.
Second Class—Misses A Treanor and E. Keyes.
Third Class—Misses E. Vinson and C. Shultz.
Drawing—Misses J. Comparette, F. Gallagher and L. Hannaur.
German—Misses A. Logan and J. Coonsman.