Jotre Dame Scholastic. |
Disco quasi semper "victTirTis; vive quasi eras morihu’us.
Volume IS.	NO THE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 10, 1876.	Number 41.:
Sonnet.
Day follows day; years perish; still my eyes Are opened on the self-same round of space; • Yon fadeless forests in their Titan grace, And the large splendors of those opulent skies. I watch, unwearied, the miraculous dyes Of dawn or sunset; the soft boughs with lace Bound some coy dryad in a lonely place, Thrilled with low whispering, and strange sylvan sighs: Weary ? The poet’s mind is fresh as dew, And_oft re-filled as fountains of the light.
His clear child’s soul finds something sweet and new Even in a weed’s heart, the carved leaves of corn, The spear-like grass, the silvery rime of morn, A cloud rose-edged, and fleeting stars at night > Paul H. Hayne.
Froissart.
Jean Froissart—priest, poet, and prince of chroniclers— was born at Vallenciennes, Flanders, in 1337. He was the son, as is conjectured from a passage in one of his poems, of Thomas Froissart, a herald painter—no inconsiderable profession in those days, and one which required a good deal of such knowledge as was then in fashion. The youth of Froissart, as we may infer from the delightful confidences into which he so frequently admits us, was spent in ease and luxury. He loved, he informs us, hunting, hawking, minstrelsy, tournaments, gay company and wine, and these tastes, at least in a moderate degree, confirmed in him by age, seem never to have entirely left him. With such a disposition he could scarcely be expected to make proper progress in the study of divinity, and we are therefore not surprised to learn that he was generally worsted in theological encounters. From an early age the love of history became one of his ruling passions, and to the last it afforded him an inexhauxtible fund of enjoyment, effectually filling up in his mind whatever void the love of pleasure might have left. At the age of twenty he undertook at the command of his friend the Lord of Beaufort to write the history of the French wars of his own time, more particularly since the battle of Poitiers.
Few men were better fitted than Froissart to write the history of their age—either as regards natural dispositions or facilities for acquiring authentic information. During his whole career he seems to have been if not the confidant of princes and other high dignitaries, at least on familiar terms with them. He crossed over toEngland in the train of Philippa of Hainault, the heroic queen of Edward HI, and • mother of the Black Prince. After remaining a few years at • the court of England, where his talents and agreeable man
ners seem to have met with the highest appreciation, his love of change and adventure bring him back again to the Continent. Here we sometimes hear of him as attached to the household of the King of France, and again as engaged in the service of the petty Italian princes. He revisited England on two different occasions, but after the death of . his protectress, Philippa, his evident partiality for the “island Court” seems to have disappeared. He has left us a most lively and interesting account of his visit to the court of the celebrated Gaston de Foix. For near a century France had been given up to intestine war, and scarce a stream, hill, or pass of the territory over which he had to travel but had been the scene of obstinate and bloody con--flict. Froissart’s curiosity was every moment awakened by some memorial of deeds of chivalry; and his courteous and" communicative companions readily detailed events with which they were familiar and in which they had not improbably taken part. In consideration of these lively nar- -ratives, readers must be good-natured enough to pardon the good old chronicler for much minute information and a prolixity of details which may not be found compatible with that exploded bugbear of modern critics, the “ dignity of history.” For instance, he never scruples to interrupt an historical narrative in order to inform us of the excellence of the fane to which he was treated by the hospitable castellans whom he visited. The noble bearing, rank and brilliant qualities of Count Gaston seem quite to have captivated him, so that he acknowledges his preference for Ortez over every court he had yet seen, whether of “ king, duke, earl or great lady.” In fact the gaiety and splendor of the southern court made him close his eyes to certain, transactions of which we, with our ideas of morality and propriety, would find it extremely difficult not to disapprove. His relation of an event so questionable, to say the least, as the murder of the' Count’s own son, is made with so delicate a regard for the murderer’s feelings, such apparent obliviousness of the gravity of the act, and such charming naivete, as almost reminds us of the artlessness of Dickens’ creation, “Mr. Harold Skimpole.” And so, he tells us, he thrust his hand to his son’s throat and the point of the knife a little entered into his throat,-into a certain vein; and the earl said, “ Ah, traitor! why dost th,ou not eat thy meat?” And the child was abashed and afraid of thecompany of his father, and the point of the knife alittle entered into his throat; so he fell down suddenly and died.	•
That knife which enters a little into the veins of the child’s throat, shortly after which he becomes abashed and- .. falls down suddenly and dies, would, we think, be voted a' somewhat too attenuated version of the story to satisfy a modern jury. It is almost as naif as Mr. John Phceaix’s relation of an adventure which had befallen him in a free
642	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
scuffle, -when, having succeeded in drawing down to earth his adversary upon him, he contrives amongst other things to keep the latter’s jaws busy by inserting his nose therein.
After leaving Ortez, Froissart visited Avignon, and for some time we find him following the annunciation of every feast from Languedoc to Paris and from Brittany to Flanders. Towards 1390 he appears to have settled at his benefice of Chemay, employing as usual his leisure in arranging and detailing the information he had collected on his travels. He died in the first year of the fifteenth century, at the age of sixty.
From this short sketch of the gay old chronicler’s life, we cannot fail to gather some idea of his character and writings. He is not, like most of the earlier chroniclers, sequestered from the world, and from the depth of the cloister casting a timid glance at the transactions of men. Froissart is in every sense a man of the world. His work shows that he was actuated by a spirit of ardent investigation, and eveiy page breathes the high sentiments of honor and chivalry imbibed in the courts and castles where he so loved to dwell. He is sometimes superstitious, but it is the romantic superstition of a soldier who tells a wonderful story because he believes it true, or of a poet who loves the marvellous because-it excites his imagination. From the whole tenor of his life he may safely be trusted when he asserts that he was prompted to his laborious task by the wish to record the deeds of chivalry which he loved, and to stigmatize with eternal shame the actions of the recreant or dishonorable. We must above all allow him the praise of unblemished impartiality, and that in spite of the peevish impeachments of some of the early French writers. “ It is true it would have been difficult to narrate the victories of Cressy and Poitiers without wounding the national vanity of France, but if Froissart was patronized by Queen Philippa, he was also admitted as a member ^of the household of King John the Good; if he was the familiar friend of the Perceys, he had also been the guest of Douglas; if he admired the Black Prince, he admired equally Bertrand du Guesclin; and if a distinction is to be made, his natural chivalrous generosity seems to have inclined him rather to the side of the valiant French gentlemen who, by individual valor and the most generous self-devotion, struggled to support, in an overwhelming tempest, the throne of their master and the independence of their country.” Whoever takes up the chronicles of Froissart must indeed be dull if he does not find himself transported back to the days of Cressy and the great Edward. In truth his history has less the air of a narrative than of a dramatic representation. The figures live and move before us; we know not only what they did, but the manner in which it was done and the words by which it was accompanied. In Froissart we hear the gallant knights, of whom he wrote, arrange the terms of combat and the manner of the onset ; wejhear “ St. George for meriy England ” alternating with “ Monjoie St. Denis ”; we see the gallant cavaliers strike their horses with their spurs, and the liveliness of the narration hurries us along with them into the whirlwind of battle. It cannot be denied .that a skirmish before the pettiest fortress when related in this manner interests us more than the general knowledge that twenty thousand Frenchmen perished at Cressy or Poiters. So long, therefore, as we prefer an acquaintance.with men to a vague knowledge of their exploits, so long must Froissart be accounted the most entertaining and perhaps the most valuable historian of the middle ages. .	..	, .
Authority the Support of Society.
Locke, in his Treatise on Civil Government, bases society on the principle of property and individual interest. However strange this foundation is in itself, we are of the opinion that unassisted it would be far from capable of sustaining the grand superstructure which has been raised upon it; and although the notion of a prop naturally suggests the idea of ruin and decay, yet we are forced to admit that society without a support other than that on which it is based would soon become a discordant and corrupt mass.
Nor is it in modern times, when the grand fabric of society has attained such a towering height, that this support first became necessary.
Neither does it become less essential as the edifice approaches perfection. This support, which is nothing more nor less than authority, was as necessary to society in its earliest stages as it is at the present time; and it is as important at the present time, and will continue to be, at least so long as human nature remains unchanged, as the very principle on which society is based.	•
Blackstone remarks that there is nothing which so generally strikes the imagination and engages the affection of mankind as the rights of property. As the chief end and desire of society is to ensure the enjoyment of these rights, we might at first suppose that the principle of property and individual interest would be sufficient to secure its harmonious existence. But unfortunately for the peace of the world it does not contain enough of property to satisfy the avarice of all its inhabitants. Nay, so powerfully docs the right of property engage the affections of mankind, that it may well be doubted whether the possesion of the whole earth would be sufficient to satiate the desire of a single individual.
This, in connection with the fact that each member regards his interests as paramont to those of all others, and that many if unrestrained would substitute might for right is sufficient evidence that society not sustained by authority must soon fall to ruin. It would indeed be a grand triumph for man could society be brought to that utopian state in which fines, penalties, and prohibitions would be things superfluous.
But as it would be necessary to accomplish a revolution in human nature in order to attain that ideal degree of perfection, it were better for those who interest themselves in the amelioration of society to endeavor to strengthen that support so essential to its existence, and which unfortunately appears daily to grow weaker.
If while authority still holds such a powerful sway over society there can be found persons of sufficient hardihood to make open attempts on those vital principles on which society is based, what may we not expect if that sway diminishes? If man, with the gallows staring him in the face, will deliberately destroy that which it is the especial province of society to secure, knowing that the penalty attached to that crime is the greatest which it is in the power of man to inflict, will he not grow more desperate in his attacks in the same proportion that the penalty attached to his crime grows less ? If the objects of society cannot be fully attained when the punishment is proportional to the offence, is it rational to suppose that the case will be bettered when the penalty is diminished, the opportunities and temptations to commit crime remaining the same ?
Shakespeare says: “ You take my house when you do take the prop that sustains my house ” : in like manner you take
« / f
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
away authority when you take away that which gives it sanction—namely, the punishment which it is in its power to inflict. Although no one that we ever heard of has proposed to dispense entirely with' punishment, yet there certainly exists at the present time a tendency to diminish it; and it was this fact that led us to say that authority, the support of society, is daily growing weaker. The notion -at present prevailing that imprisonment is as severe a punishment as death, is, we venture to say, a spurious one. Life, under any circumstances, especially to those who have no regard for honor, is preferable to death. The parting between the body and soul is indeed a bitter one, and he that wishes to render a service to society should rather incline to exaggerate than disparage the terrors of execution ; for any act which tends to detract from the force of authority detracts so much from the security of society.
To suppose that society does, ever did, or ever can prosper without the support of vigorous authority, is to suppose an impossibility. Authority was to society in its infancy what the albumen of the seed is to the germinating plant —namely, that which sustains it while it is endeavoring to take root.
To society in its present state, authority is what the trunk is to the oak of the forest—namely, that by which it is supported in its elevated position, where alone its members may perform their respective functions, on the proper execution of which depends the welfare of the whole. Remove authority from society, and, like the mighty oak when its trunk is riven, it will fall prostrate and soon resolve itself into a mass of corruption.
The New Association.
We do not claim the merit of being first in publishing the following document, as several Italian and French religious papers gave it in full to their readers more than two months ago. We have waited until we had in our hands all the necessary papers, in order to present the subject to our friends with a greater confidence and a more thorough comprehension of its bearings. If we come late, we at least come with the hope that here, as in Europe, all Christian educators will welcome this Association of the “Angel Guardians of the Sanctuary” as a blessing to Catholic youth, and a means to bring about the conversion of our country; we therefore invite our friends to peruse with attention a document the reading of which brought tears to the eyes of our Holy Father himself. This new Association, approved and enriched with indulgences by the Holy See, cannot be received indifferently in a country for the special benefit of which it has been instituted. Here is the text, literally translated for the Scholastic from the original French, read at the Vatican, on the Feast of the Chair of St. Peter, and which we publish at the request of the Director of the Association:
Most Holy FatherIt is written “that God often chooses the weak to confound the strong.”—Et ea qua non sunt ut ea qua sunt destmeret; 1 Cor. i, 28. Such is the abridged history of the Church, which the Pontifical examples and teachings admirably confirm, especially for the past thirty years. Each day we pray with our venerated Father, and each day increases the confidence his heroic firmness inspires in us.
Never before had the coalition of the powers of the earth against the Lord and against His Church appeared more
formidable, and therefore more certain of final success. To us it is the sign that the hour is approaching, that God is going to rise and scatter His enemies with a breath, as the wind sweeps the dust from the face of the earth. Yes, Holy Father, we believe with you that God intends reserving to Himself the glory of the triumph He prepares to His Church and to its Infallible Head, so long and cruelly tried. It is in this conviction, most Holy Father, that I consider myself happy, coming to-day from the far West of America, and laying at your feet, not the promises of the powerful ones of this world, but the wishes of the feeblest on earth —of those little ones whom the world takes not into account ; a coalition of young children, who wish with all the fervor of their young souls to form among themselves an association in order to ask, together, of “ their Heavenly Father, whose Face their angels see continually in Heaven," the triumph of the Church and of its august Head, and in particular the conversion of the New World, their own country.
To deliver and set at liberty the Prince*of Pastors, and bring to him a new flock of sheep and of lambs, that he may feed them with the “ word of life ”; such is in a few words, most Holy Father, the object of enrolment of this young militia, who well know the unchangeable Divine preferences. They have read the solemn declaration of the Saviour: “ Sinite panulos venire ad Me" and behold, these young beloved ones of Jesus stand up and say that for them too the hour has arrived to rise as one man; and, resting on their innocence and the fervor of their desires, they request to be organized and presented “ as an army in battle array” to Him who first loved them and protected them; who first revealed to the world the dignity of the child, and his precious prerogatives. They feel confident that He who forbade His disciples to prevent them from coming to Him will not reject them; butthat He calls them to bless them and grant to their united supplications special favors reserved to themselves.
Thus urged by those beloved children, most Holy Father, I have taken to myself the words of the Saviour: “Et ne prohibueritis eos and, in the fear of the Divine displeasure, I have hastened to bring you these ardent desires of innocence and filial piety. Moreover, I well know that this New World, whose conversion was the dream of my life, is singularly dear to your paternal heart; and that the return to the Church of this land, once discovered by a Christian hero, who took possession of it in the name of the Cross of Christ, and a part of which is already consecrated to the Immaculate Conception, must be the object of your pastoral solicitude every day.
Behold, in a few words, most Holy Father, the origin and the history of; the above Association. On the 15th of last August we took possession, in America, of the new sanctuary of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart. Before the Tabernacle stood shining for the first time a lamp of wonderful beauty; it had been brought from Lyons, and was a perfect simile of the famous one at Lourdes. The Minims of the College marvelled at the splendors of this new masterpiece, and solicited for themselves the privilege of feeding it with their own hands, and at their own expense. The grant of their request appeared to them a favor so much the more precious as they had heard that the Holy Father Himself tends with His own hands the lamp of His chapel in the Vatican. Immediately^ere was organized among them, under the name of the “ Angel Guardians of the Sanctuary," the association I have just explained.
644	THE NOTRE DAME' SCHOLASTIC.
Since then, I mentioned it in the South and in the North, in New York, and recently in Paris; and everywhere it was received with the same enthusiasm. These young angels of the earth are jubilant with happiness in the thought of coming every day, and encircling in spirit the Vicar of Jesus Christ; and there, prostrated by His side before the hidden God whom the mystic Lamp reveals to their faith—there under the eye of the Divine Prisoner of love, they will pray that the Lamp of the Sanctuary may soon prove to the blind of the world, and particularly to their erring brothers still seated in the shadows of death, a light of salvation: “ Lumen ad rcrelationem gentium''
The lamp in question is no longer alone; six others, I learn, already keep it company in the Sanctuary, and very soon the Nine Angelic Choirs will be represented there by as many new lamps, without speaking of a number of others, which these young fervent souls will multiply, as bright light-houses on the shores of “ that dark sea,” as they called it in the days of Columbus. Henceforth, most Holy Father, one of the first privileges of the child decorated with the cross of superior merit will be to come and pour with its guiltless hand into the lamp the pure oil of Italy that keeps alive its sacred flame. To him and his associates this lamp is a revelation, a new Epiphany. Its soft light enlighteneth their young intelligences, as it warms their ardent hearts to generous impulses against the seductions of aU sorts which Satan scatters broadcast on the path of youth in the New World.
Never in the history of the Church had solemn documents and warnings to the Christian world issued forth from the Holy See more numerous and more urgent, upon the necessity of imparting a sound, thorough Catholic Education to Catholic youth; never before had we better understood and realized how important—nay more, how absolutely necessary—it is for the future of the Christian child and of society, that faith take first possession of his mind and guard him against unbelief; that truth strengthen him against the Seducer who was a liar from the beginning. Deeply convinced of the wisdom of these apostolic teachings, we wish to permeate these young souls, from the first, with a clear atmosphere of faith; and, as a means thereto to create in them lively feelings of pitiful contempt and aversion for whatever might offer a temptation and a danger to their inexperience and unsuspecting candor.	'
' To this hour, we may say of the Church in America what the Apostle wrote of the first Christians: “Won multi po-tentes mon multi nobUes." What shines out and flatters, what seduces the weak-minded of the world, stalks as yet far from our Bethlehems and Calvarys. To fortify our tender youth against the seduction of the senses, we desire to fill them, from the start, with contempt for those false and lying goods, and move them with a heartfelt compassion for those poor blind men who daily sacrifice eternal happiness for the fleeting joys of a day. We wish thus to plant
. in these pure hearts the germ of a Christian and apostolic - zeaL Practice will soon make a habit of it for life. This habit of praying daily to save from eternal ruin a parent, a sister, a neighbor, or a friend, will prove a powerful protection to our dear mediating children, as well as a prolific source of blessings to the objects of their solicitude.
Thus we hope to ingraft upon the heart of the coming generation the spirit of active faith which our own did not . receive; of that praying faith of which England now proclaims so loudly the marvellous efficacy; and which will
not fail our dear America, coming from the stainless hearts and lips of youth, at this present hour of her greatest need.
Only a few weeks since, your Holiness exhorted us, in most admirable language, not to agitate or disturb, but to be up and acting, to be doing something for the Faith. This solemn invitation made no exception either of age or sex. The field of action was open to all. Such an impressive counsel seems to have been inspired especially for our little terrestrial angels. The child, indeed, is essentially a moving, an active being; the exuberance of his life must be spent, either for good or for evil; he, from nature, cannot rest. From natural impulses, he would almost be an agitator. But how wonderfully he conquers himself, when, under the soft rays of the mystic Lamp, he kneels to pray with his angelic companions before the Tabernacle of the Living God! Nor is he idle there, on his tender knees. He is not yet a man of action, but how admirably he seems to have caught up the directive words of the Vicar of Christ! He is acting indeed, in the best sense of the word —that noble child, with his young associates, before the Tabernacle; for he is acting upon the Heart of God, which he moves to pity; and who knows, if, at the indefatigable prayer of that guileless and confiding child, God, who holds in His Hand the hearts of men, will not forgive and convert His enemies, and give peace to His Church and His Faithful Vicar upon earth ?
When Satan sets himself to work the ruin of a child, he leads him off from his pious friends, to some corner, to an isolated and obscure spot; but, as ever, the true Guardian Angel of the child brings him back to the light; often to the mystic light of a Sanctuary Lamp, and there pauses with him and his angelic companions, and'prays with them, before his God and their God.
At such a sight one might imagine he hears a voice from the Tabernacle saying again: “ Leticias Heos esse cum fitiis lunninum." There is, indeed, no spectacle more worthy of Heaven. Here is the place where our Angel Guardians will love to meet every day to pray for the immortal Head of the Church and the conversion of their country. Such is, most Holy Father, the object of the Angel Guardians’ Association, whose only desire is your august sanction You have only one word to say: “Sinite” and they become a legion, a power, the more efficient with God as they appear weaker to human sense.
. In the name of these angels of the earth, I most humbly pray that your Holiness deign to sanction and bless their ALSSOciation, and to enrich it with the following precious indulgences: 1st, 300 days Indulgence on the day of admission ; 2d, A Plenary Indulgence four times a year, provided they confess, receive Holy Communion, etc.
Most Holy Father, you see prostrate at your feet one no longer young, who owes all to the Apostolic blessings he has so frequently received here during the last twenty-five years, and who now solicits at your hand a new favor, more precious in his estimation than any one of the past. At a time when not a single nation protects your Holiness with its sword, when all means of defense have disappeared, he ambitions not the glory, but the merit to be allowed on this glorious Feast of the Chair of St. Peter to raise and set around this venerable Chair a new army, whose movements will disturb the peace of no empire of this world, but whose every soldier will faithfully stand to the last at the post of honor and duty; and who will lovingly sacrifice all to shield the Vicar of Christ against the treacherous perfidies of this world. It will be a happy day, most Holy Father,
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC
645
when our Angel Guardians and their happy parents of I both hemispheres will read with their own eyes that your Paternity invites all children of either sex to enrol themselves in this spiritual militia, where you will not again oblige them, through tenderness of heart, as on the 20th of September, to lay down their arms for fear of shedding uselessly a noble and precious blood.' But by your holy examples and encouragements you will soon multiply their number, until they shall have encircled the globe with their invincible legions, uniting heaven and earth for the glorious defense of the Vicar of Christ. ’
Fiat! Fiat!
E. SORIN, C. S. C.
Rome, Feast of the Chair of St. Peter, 1876.
Besides two decrees granting all that is asked above, the Holy Father wrote with His own hand, at the bottom of a tableau representing the Association, the following words: "Banedicti qui ambulant in mas Domini. P^us PP IX,”
Sixtus V.
We read in Percy’s Anecdotes the following chapter in the life of Pope Sixtus V, who filled with such wisdom and courage the Chair of Peter, and who, in spite of a haughty nobility and turbulant populace restored order throughout the States of the Church.
Father Michael Angelo Selleri, a Franciscan friar, going in the beginning of February, 1531, to preach during the Lent session at Ascoli, lost his way near Le Grotte, and _ coming to a point where four lanes met, could not tell which to take. As he was looking around for somebody to direct him, a little boy, who was attending a herd of swine, came running forward and tendered his services. The friar cheerfully accepted them, and asked him the road to Ascoli, “ I’ll soon show you the way thither,” replied the boy, and immediately began to run before him. As they went along, the answers the urchin gave to Father Michael’s questions were so smart and pertinent, and accompanied with so much good humor, that the friar was quite charmed with him, and could not conceive how a child who had no higher employment than looking after hogs should have such a share of sense and good manners.	'
When Father Michael had got into his road again, he thanked Felix for his trouble, and would have dismissed him with a reward, but he kept running forward without seeming to take any notice of what he said, which obliged the friar to ask him in a jocose manner whether he designed to go with him to the town? “Yes,” said the boy, “ not only to Ascoli, but to the end of the world, with a great deal of pleasure; ” and, upon this, he took occasion to tell the friar that the poor circumstances of his parents would not allow them to send him to school, as he desired; that he earnestly wished somebody belonging to a convent would take him as a waiting-boy, and he would serve him to the utmost of his power, provided he would teach him to read.
To try the boy a little further, Father Michael asked him if he would take upon him the habit of his order? Felix, for that was the boy’s name, immediately answered that he would; and though the friar set forth to him in the most frightful colors all the mortifications aud austerities he would be obliged to undergo, he boldly replied “he would willingly suffer anything, if he would make him a scholar.”. The priest, surprised at his courage and
resolution, thought he must be under theinfluence of some superior inspiration, and resolved to take him along with him. He told him, however, first to conduct his hogs back to his master, and come to meet him at the convent of Ascoli. But Felix would not be persuaded to leave him on any account. “ The hogs,” said he, “ will find their way home themselves, when'night comes on." The friar yielding, they continued their journey, and arrived at Ascoli in the evening.	.
The fraternity received the preacher with great civility, but were surprised to see him attended by a ragged boy. When he told them by what accident he picked him up, and with what extraordinary zeal he had followed him thither, the warden had the curiosity to send for and ask him several questions. The replies which young Felix made were such that he appeared even more extraordinary than Father Michael had represented him to be. Such an examination before a reverend community might well have disconcerted a person of riper years, but Felix answered without any hesitation, and with an air of truth and simplicity that could not be suspected of any artifice or contrivance. Everything he said tended to persuade them of his call, and of the ardent desire he had to become a preacher of the Gospel, if they qualified him for it. The whole brotherhood, convinced that the hand of God unmistakably appeared in the affair, conjured the warden not to overlook so remarkable an interposition of Providence when his attention to it might be the means of raising up a man that would, perhaps, prove an honor to their order.
The brotherhood argued rightly. The poor ragged boy who thus accidentally obtained an introduction into their community rose afterwards to the Papal Chair, under the title of Pope Sixtus V.
Books and Periodicals.
—The contents of the Catholic Record for June are : I, . Irish Services to Education, Science, and Literature in the United States; II, Au Saint; HI, Strayed from the Fold ; IV, Liberalism and the United States of America; V, A Measureless Ill; VI, Changed; VII, Diamond or Glass; VIII, Slips of the Press; IX, Tbe Flower You Gave Me; X, Editorial Notes; XI, New Publications.
—The contents of Church's Musical Visitor for June, 1816, are; I, The Romance of a Young Musician; H, The Letter B; III; The Remedy; IV, Carl M. von Weber (continued); V, Feuilleton from Chicago; VI, Violets (poem); VII, The Feature of the Centennial Opening; VIH, Centennial Chimes; IX, Editorials; X, Editor’s Notes; XI, Correspondence; XH, Musical Hopper; XIH, Publishers’ Department. The Music of the number consists of: No Song To-Night, Nellie Waltz, She’s Young—She’s Pretty, Dearest Spot on Earth, We have Lived and Loved together Praeludium, The Gardener.
—The contents of the Manhattan Monthly for June ■ are: I, Whitsuntide; H, Amy May; IH, Who and What were the Rosicrucians, (Part I.); IV, The Cook’s Fair at St. Germains; V, Jacob Leisler’s Revolt; VI, Bringing Light to the Blind; VII, Roman Antiquities in Scotland, (Part II.); VIH, Was His Life Unsuccessful ? IX, Spring; X, Famous Memories of the Month; XI, Wed not for Gold; XII, Lives of the Signers of the Declaration of Independence, Richard Henry Lee of Virginia, Mover of Independence; XIH, English Literature by Handbook; XIV, Miscellany.
—The Catilia for June is replete with interesting matters on Church music, among which are, first, an article, or rather schedule for Liturgical Vespers, to be published monthly, giving in proper order the Psalms, Hymns, Antiphons, etc.; II, The Liturgy and the Practical Musician; HI, Vocal Music in Schools; IV, Training of Catholic Organists, Choir Directors and Singers; V, Suitable Sacred
646
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Music (in English); VI, Church Music and the Liturgy (English); VII, The Approaching Third General Convention of the St. Cecilia Society of America—to take place on the 22d, 23d, and 24th of August, in Baltimore; VIII, Notes and Correspondence. The music with this number is two hymns for Benediction by Rev. F. Koenen, Choir Leader at the Cathedral of Cologne. TheCcecilia is published by Fischer & Bro., 226 E. 4th St., New York, at $1 per. annum. The Glories of the Sacred Heart. By Henry Edward, Cardinal Archbishop. New York. The Catholic Publication Society, No. 9 Warren Street. 1875. Bp. 302. Price §1.50.
Every work from the pen of the distinguished Cardinal Archbishop of Westminster is certain to receive a hearty welcome from the Catholic American public, and this work of his Eminence on the Sacred Heart will not prove an exception to the rule. Believing that when divine truth is fully and duly apprehended it generates devotion, the Cardinal has confined himself principally to explaining the dogma of the Church teaching the devotion. The many works of devotion to the Sacred Heart, and notably Father Dalgairns’ excellent doctrinal manual, are excellent in their way, but this work of Cardinal Manning is most useful in explaining the grounds of the Church in approving this devotion and in giving us a full apprehension of the dogma of the Incarnation. It is a book deserving the attention of serious readers. It is well printed and tastefully bound, as are indeed most of the books issued by the Catholic Publication Society.	.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Rubinstein and Wieniawski are to play the “ Kreutzerb sonata in London.
—A. new dramatic poem by Aubrey de Vere, “St. Thomas of Canterbury,” is soon to be published.
—In the Photographic Exhibition building, Philadelphia, there are 194 exhibits of photographs, all by American artists.	.
—Mr. William Morris prints a two-column fragment of a narrative poem on “ The Story of Admetus ” in the current Athenaum.
—Fourteen operas were performed last season in the St. Petersburg National Opera-house, of which ten were by Russian composers.
—Hallstrom’s “King of the Mountains,” an opera founded on a Scandinavian subject, will be brought out next season at Vienna.
—Mr. R. D. Hawley, of Hartford, Conn., has recently purchased the remarkable violin known to connoisseurs as the “King Joseph,”—the handsomest and most perfect specimen known of the violins of Joseph Guarnerius.
—Difficulties are said to have arisen between Richard Wagner and the management of the Hofoperntheater at Vienna, with regard to the production of “ Die Walkure,” which was promised for the beginning of next season.
—The performance of J. S. Bach’s colossal Mass in B minor at St. James’s Hall, under the direction of Herr Otto Goldschmidt, husband of Jenny Lind, was one of the events of the present London season. Jenny Lind sang in the choruses.
—The Wagner Theatre in Baireuth will contain 1,344 seats, besides a “Princes’ Gallery.” The performance will, begin at 4 o’clock each day, a considerable pause being allowed between the acts, so that the second act will only begin at half-past 6, and the third at half-past 8.
—Prof. Max Muller has entered upon his duties as editor of the “Sacred Books of the East.” The time imployed in the work, The London Academy says, will be eight years, the whole series being completed in 24 volumes, three of which it is expected will be in issued each year.
—A rival of Blind Tom has been found at Blount Springs, Alabama, in the person of James Harden, a negro from Baltimore. He plays the guitar and sings the most difficult music exceptionally well, and is also something of a composer. He has received no instruction, but is most emphatically a natural born musician.
—Another successful composer has arisen in Paris, namely, M. Henri Marechal, whose one-act opera, called “ Les Amoureux de Catherine, ” is said to be full of melody, and to indicate a brilliant future for its author. Jules Barbier adapted the libretto from a novel of Erckmann-Chatrian, and Mile. Chapuy sustained the part of Catherine in the performance some weeks ago in the Opera Comique.
—A list of the works performed by the Handel and Haydn Society from Dec. 25,1815, to April 16^1876, shows among other things that the “ Messiah” has been given 65 times; the “ Creation,” 59; Neukomm’s “David,” 57; Rossini’s “ Moses in Egypt’” 45; Mendelssohn’s “ Elijah,” 40; Handel’s “ Samson/’ 32; Rossini’s “ Stabat Mater,” 20; Mendelssohn’s " Hymn of Praise,” 12; Handel’s “ Judas Maccabteus,” 15.
—The Liepsic Signals states that a very interesting musical performance, one might almost say a curiosity of the rarest kind, is in preparation at Dresden. When Richard Wagner quitted that city in 1849 he left in the hands of his intimate friend, Tichatscheck, four overtures (among them one to “Columbus”), and would hear no more of them, evidently because they belonged to his earlier period, which Wageer will not now acknowledge. It is now said that Herr Mannsfeldt, the conductor at Dresden, intends to put these works into rehearsal, and produce them at a concert.
—The amount of wall space now available for the display of paintings is 75,000 square feet in Memorial Hall, Centennial, and that is the annex 60.000, all of which is occupied. The entire number of exhibitors in the Art Department is 1916, most of whom exhibit more than one picture, some of them as many as eight or ten. Of these 559 are American, 256 British, 80 from Canada, 378 from France, 48 from Germany, 117 from the Netherlands, 115 from Denmark, 95 from Sweden, 47 from Norway, 80 from Italy, 66 from Mexico, 19 from Brazil, 44 from the Argentine Republic, and a loan collection from 70 artists.
—Joncieres’ new opera called “ Dimitri, ” and founded without much regard for strict historical accuracy, on the story of that false Demetrius who appeared in Poland (1603), pretending to be the son of Ivan IV, has been produced at the Theatre Lyrique, in Paris. It appears to have been received with great favor, and the Paris correspondent of the London Daily Netos remarks of its composer: “ M. Joncieres has improved greatly in his ideas of what constitutes a pleasing and musical opera. There is a delicious languor about his music in its love passages, and no French composer can express the nobler passions with greater force and truth.”
—The light of the celebrated blue grotto at Capri has been examined by the spectroscope by a German physicist, Dr. H. W. Vogel. The marvellous beauty of the blue within this grotto attracts numerous visitors from Naples to the Island of Capri, which is situated at the mouth of the bay: and Dr. Vogel sought to ascertain in what manner this color is produced. The entrance of the grotto is only three feet high, and of about the same width, so much' of the light which finds its way in comes through the water. In passing through it loses all its red, and nearly all Its yellow, but preserves its green, blue and indigo unimpaired, and to those is due the well-known tints which give the place its name.—American Art Journal.
—The Thomas orchestrals in the Women’s Pavilion of the Centennial Exposition have come to an unfortunate' end. The managers recently informed Mr. Thomas that, owing to the classical nature of the programmes, the receipts, were insufficient to meet the expenses, and suggested that he introduce more of the popular melodies in the concerts, otherwise they could not guarantee the pay of the orchestra. Mr. Thomas replied that the programmes were such as his orchestra had played in New York for several seasons, and on numerous tours through the States, and,' in effect, that he would not direct the “ Pop-Goes-the-Weasel ” style of music under any consideration. The concerts have accordingly been discontinued.
—M. Emile Sauret, whose brilliant vocal performances are no doubt well remembered in this country, has created quite a furor in Germany. After a severe course of practice he lately appeared at the Gewandhaus, in Leipzig, and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.'
647

I
the exacting critics of that important art-centre united, through the medium of the Rachrichten, the Tageblatt, and the Anzeiger, in extolling in the warmest terms his rare virtuosite. A still more grateful tribute was paid M. Sauret’s talent in the hearty praise of the principal musicians in the city—and praise for French art upon German lips is not to be undervalued. It is understood, even, that the professorship of the late Herr Ferdinand David’s violin class was offered him. M. Sauret, however, proposes, fo_ a year or two, to devote himself almost exclusively to tht, study of composition, for he appears no less gifted in that branch of his art than in its executive department. The progress of this young and ambitious musician will be watched with interest.
—The Publishers' weekly prints the results of its prize question as to the most saleable novels. The works of Dickens, George Eliot, Scott, and Thackeray were excluded as holding undisputed supremacy. By the votes of 39 booksellers “John Halifax” comes next, heading the list with 37 votes out of the 39. “ Jane Eyre ” comes next, being mentioned by 35; “The Wooing O’t” and St. Elmo ” are mentioned by 34; “ One Summer ” by 32; “ The Scarlet Letter ” and Mrs Stowe’s Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” and " My Wife and I,” at both extremes of her literary career, by 31; “The Princess of Thule,” “Infelice,” and Mrs. Roe’s two books, “ Barriers Burned Away” and “The Opening of a Chestnut-Burr,” by 28; “The Count of Monte Cristo,” by 26; Miss Evans’ “Beulah,” Mrs. Stowe’s “ We and our Neighbors,” and “ The Wide Wide World” by 25; “ Little Women,” Dr. Holland’s “ Sevenoaks,” and Mr. Roe’s “ From Jest to Earnest,” by23; “Les Miserables ” by 22; Wilkie Collins’ “The Women in White ” and Lever’s “ Charles O’Malley ” by 21; “ The Old Mam’selle’s Secret” by 20; Miss Evans, Mrs. Stowe, and Mr. Roe, seem, in the opinion of the booksellers, to dispute the lead with the last generation. This result does not correspond to the library returns, which frequently place Mrs. Southworth at the head.
—There is a letter by Mr. Swinburne in The Atheneum on Charles Lamb’s letters to Godwin, suggesting that Godwin’s tragedy of “ Faulkner” is the scheme on which the two authors consulted in this correspondence. Mr. Swinburne adds: “ Several of Lamb’s suggestions, in spite of his modest disclaimer (lam the worst hand in the world at a plot), seem to me especially, as coming from the author of a tragedy memorable alike for sweetness of moral emotion and emptiness of theatrical subject, worthy of note for the instinctive intuition of high dramatic effect implied in their rough and rapid outlines. An earlier suggestion for the hapless tragedy of ‘ Antonio,’ immortal now by the written record of its damnation as any tenant of Dante’s Hell, contains a singular anticipation of one of the most famus passages in the work of the greatest master of our own age, the scene of the portraits in ‘ Hemani:’ ‘ To relieve the former part of the play, could not some sensible images, some work for the eye be introduced? A gallery of pictures, Alexander’s ancestors, to which Antonio might affectingly point his sister, one by one, with anecdote, &c.’ I know of no coincidence more pleasantly and strangely notable than this between the gentle genius of the loveliest among English essayists and the tragic invention of the oftiest among French poets.”
—The London Athenaeum records the fact of a graceful tribute to Professor Hullah, who has been created' an LL.D, by the University of Edinburgh. Professor Hullah deserves the compliment. He has pursued the studies of his art and science with truth and faithfulness in his quiet relation to the progress of education in Great Britain. We are told by the Manhattan Monthly that there are other instances of the honorary Degree of LL.D. being conferred on classically-educated musicians. Thomas Busby, Mus. Doc., Cantab., the translator of “ The Nature of Things,” from Titus Lucretius Carus, with Commentaries, Comparative, Illustrative and Scientific, received from Cambridge the LL.D. E. F. Rembault, the musical antiquary, received the same degree from Edinburgh. In 1868 Ferdinand Hiller, the musician and writer of Cologne, in company with Minister Bancroft, were both created LL.D. by the University of Bonn; and more recently, the late William Sterndale Bennett, Mus. Doc., Professor of music in the University of Cambridge, received the honorary D. C. L.
from Oxford. The Universities of Great Britain and Ireland know well how to dignify their men of science and art, and to separate the mere technical student from the scholar whose preliminary education has preceded and been the base upon which technical studies have been subsequently engrafted.
—Four successive evenings of such highstrung pleasure as the Niebelungen will demand require nerves of iron,' and I am really afraid an insane asylum will be the building most sought for after the representations at Bayreuth. Very many of the “ through tickets ” for the Niebelungen, which represent three entertainments, four evenings in each, have been disposed of in New York, Boston and Berlin, The Emperor, brave man, took twenty-five, and will be present at the chief representations, while the King of Bavaria signifies his intention to attend only the general rehearsals. The Sultan and the Khedive of Egypt have each taken ten tickets. These have been disposed of doubtless through the instrumentality of the Turkish Ambassador here, Aristarchi Bey, who must be a passionate lover of music, if his presence at every concert be any indication. He wanders through the room, as though seeking the best point for hearing, always conspicuous by his heavy black whiskers, black hair, and yellow skin. I remember one evening his seating himself directly in front of me, and making himself comfortable by drawing off an evidently tight shoe and sitting in his sock feet the rest of the performance, much to the amusement of some young girls near, who almost giggled themselves into hysterics. Russia and Great Britain have also ordered a number of tickets, and even France has smothered her wrath for the nonce, and will send representatives to the great musical drama.—Cincinnati Gazette.
—A new series of “ classics,” to be edited by Mr. Rossiter Johnson, the successful editor of “Little Classics,” will be announced soon by Henry Holt & Co. This is a set of “Condensed Classics” which shall acquaint hurried readers with “ books that everybody talks about and nobody reads.” The attempt is not to supersede the complete works, but to meet the question whether they shall be read in this fashion, or not at all. The plan of condensation will be much like that of the dramatist, who preserves the plot of a story and its most characteristic and important points. Nothing is to be omitted which is a part of the development of the story, or essential to the delineation of the characters, but that only which the hasty reader would naturally skip, could he look forward to its connection with, or disconnection from, the work. Except in a few connecting clauses, the author’s words will be untouched. It is proposed to begin the series with Scott’s “Ivanhoe,” Dickens’ “Our Mutual Friend,” Bulwer’s “Last Days of Pompeii,” and, if these should meet with success, to reduce in size the leading works of Fielding, Sterne, Marryat, Lever, Warren, and others. It is curious that Mr. Holt and Mr. Johnson both entertain this idea, the one as to Scott’s works, the other as to Dickens’. One venture of the sort had already been made by Mr. Holt in the condensation by Mr. Jones, for the “ Leisure Hour series,” of Richardson’s “Clarissa Harlowe.” The series of “Condensed Classics” will be confined to standard works of English fiction; they will be of about half the size of the originals, and will be published at the price of a dollar, in handsomely decorated 12mo. volumes, which Mr. Holt means to make the most tasteful books he has published—and that is saying a great deal. .
—The following new scale of postal rates has been sen us by a correspondent:
A one-cent stamp for a circulair,
A two-cent stamp for a newspapair,
A three-cent stamp for a sealed lettair,
All licked on in the right cornair.
Lick, brothers, lick with care,
On the right-hand side, not everywhere,
Unless you want the postmastair
To make things hot, and “cuss and swear.”
—Rowell's Mewspaper Reporter.
648
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. ~
Terms, $1.50 Per ^Viuirim, Postpaid.
THE SCHOLASTIC ALMANAC may now be procured at the Students’ Office, and at Jansen, McClurg & Co’s. 117 and 119 State Street, Chicago.
Notre Dame, June IO, 1876.
Worthy of Imitation.
Mr. Ignaz Scheuble, proprietor of Carl Sartori’s bookstore in Vienna, has matured and published a plan for furnishing poor churches with good pictures,—a plan which is ■well worthy of imitation in the United States.
In a circular which now lies before us, the projector says that the present state of Christian art is such that many and great improvements may be made. There exists a great necessity for ornamenting churches with paintings and works of sculpture. The poorest village church as well as the grandest cathedral demands Christian images and paintings, because of the desire so deeply rooted in the mind of seeing the holy and sublime after which it is longing, represented in marble and on canvas. Where means are abundant, a careful selection from master-works, sufficient to satisfy both clerical and artistic demands, may be made. But the artistic wants of poor churches is not so easily satisfied. How many'unbecoming works are placed in the temples of God, only because the means necessary to purchase good pictures are wanting I
To enable these poor churches to obtain good pictures, and at the same time to exercise a salutary influence over the work of artists, and to create a more noble conception of the beauty of Christian art, Scheuble has projected a plan which cannot, if supported well, fail in beneficial results. He has called his venture the Fuerich Foundation, in honor of the late Joseph Ritter von Fuerich (a sketch of whose life appeared in the Scholastic a month or so ago)—the great religious painter of Germany, and champion of Christian art, who thirty years ago wrote: “ Beside all positive truths in matters of faith, there is an axiom written on every page of the true history of art, and testified to by the objects of art, belonging to all ages and nations, that art has its true home at the altar, that everything coming from art into our ordinary life has its origin there, acts like a reflection of rays from that place, and is alone capable of existence when emanating from it. Such truths may be forgotten and overruled for a short time, but because they are truths they will come again to light, like a fountain which having been closed on one side its waters will burst forth on the other.”
The plan of the projector, then, is that all subscribers pay a yearly fee of five florins (about two dollars and a half in American currency) for which they will receive a fine copper-plate engraving. He will in addition receive, for the same end, donations exceeding the amount of the annual subscriptions. After paying the cost price of the engravings, the surplus from the subscriptions as well as the amounts received as donations will be applied to the purchase of good pictures for the poorer churches of Austria, care being taking that only such-objects of art be executed
as will be in perfect accord with the rules of good taste and the laws of the Church. The orders for the pictures and the general management of the fund has been intrusted to a committee composed of the following gentlemen: M. Ludwig Mayer, historical painter, Vienna; M. Michael Rieser, Member of the Academy of Fine Arts, and Professor in the Art Academy of Vienna; and M. August Woemdle von Adelsfried, Professor at Theresianum, Vienna. Every year a report of the foundation will be published, in which will appear a list of all subscribers, a list of the benefactors, with the amounts of their donations, a list of the churches receiving aid, the names of the artists engaged in the work, the accounts and statistics of the foundation,- and a des-, cription of the premiums given to subscribers.
Any one desiring to subscribe to the Fuerich Foundation can do so by sending five florins to Ignaz Scheuble, Carl Sartori’s Bookstore, Vienna, Austria.
That such a work would be a great benefit to the Church in the United States 'is evident. There are very few churches here that possess any statues except those in plaster. The pictures that adorn the walls are very few, and most of these few are but poorly executed copies, while the Stations are simply prints, and some of them not well executed at that. A foundation such as the one above described would not only furnish paintings for many churches but would also give some encouragement to American artists, more especally to those Catholic artists who are shut out from the domain of religious art because they have no call for works of the kind.
In After-Life.
It is a mistake for young men when leaving college to suppose that their days of study have come to an end, and that for the future nothing of the kind is required of them. Study during a whole lifetime is necessary, and if when entering the world a young man follows some calling which demands hard work, he should, in order to lead a life of usefulness, devote himself to study during his leisure hours. If he enters some of the professions, he should make study the business of his life. In science, in law, in medicine and in Theology, there is always something to learn, something to master, and this can only be accomplished by hard and persistent study. In business it is of vital importance that every one be industrious, making use of every moment of business-hours. A little time lost here and a little time lost there tells to one’s disadvantage at the end of the year. No matter what may be the genius or capibalities of a young man, in the race of life he will be distanced by inferior competitors if he does not make the proper use of -his time. It will be the old race of the hare and the tortoise over again. A young man must be industrious.
Most young men do not enter life with a great amount of money; and even if they do, it is absolutely necessary that they be frugal, temperate, and economical. These habits formed when young are never lost. They keep a man out of temptation, or they give him strength to resist its assaults. They cause him to be respected and honored, and do more towards commanding success than . the greatest intellectual acquirements. An honest, frugal and industrious man is sure to command success where ‘ others fail. Work in one’s trade or profession is necessary, and as a consequence it should never be shirked, but accepted with cheerfulness and alacrity; taken in this man-.
_	.	_ -	, 7	_ •	-	', . - - •'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	M9
- net, it will cause the young man to be respected and loved by employer or clients. •
The business of the employer should be made the business of him who is employed to attend to it. If you are in the service of any one he will value your services only inasmuch as you attend to the business entrusted to you. Besides, by taking care of the business of others you learn in time to take care of your own business when you shall have started out for yourself.
The great fault with the young men of our day is their fondness for getting rid of work. They seek for easy and lazy employments, and not unfrequently do they turn out, after a few years, poor, miserable vagabonds. A young man ought not to enter the world with such sentiments. He should, and must, in order to succeed, avoid all wishes to live without labor. Labor is a blessing instead of a curse; it furnishes us with food, clothing and everything necessary, and frees us from temptations to dishonesty.
Personal.
—	A. W. Corrigan, of’69, is assessor, South Side, Chicago.
—	Mr. Wile of Laporte, Ind., was at Notre Dame last week.
—	Dr. J. Lavelle, of ’69, is practising medicine at Loogootee, Ind.
—	John F. Larkin, of ’75, is overseeing a large farm near Loogootee, Ind.	' ■
—	George Hoffman, of ’72, is residing at No. 192 West Randolph St., Chicago.
—	Frank Trautman, of ’ 73, is in business at No. 192 East Van Buren St., Chicago, Ill.
—	Carl Ortmayer, of ’71, is salesman for P. Hayden & Co., No. 45 and 47 Lake Street, Chicago.
—	Mr. George L. Davenport, of Davenport, Iowa, spent a few hours at the College on last Tuesday.	_’
—	Prof. A. J. Stace, we understand, will be a candidate for re-election to the office of County Surveyor.
—	T. J. Culliton, of ’75, is clerking in the office of the Chicago and St. Paul RR. Company, Chicago.
—	Capt. J. J. Healy, of ’59, whose residence is No. 12 Lane Place, Chicago, is Clerk of the Criminal Court.
—	J. J. Fitzgibbon, of ’61, with the firm of Keeley & Co., Chicago, spent a couple of hours at South Bend this past week.
—	Capt. Ed. Stretch, of ’62, whose residence is at Park Ridge, has one of the best vessels plying between Chicago and Buffalo.
—	George F. Berry, of’69, is in the General Superintendent’s office, Rome, Watertown and Ogdensburgh RR., Watertown, N. Y.
—	Frank M. Montgomery, of '75, is Freight and Ticket Agent and General Manager of the Western Union-Telegraph Office at Montgomery, Ind.
- —P. L. Garrity, of ’60, has removed to No. 200 South Clarke St., Chicago, where you can get as fine a cigar as you can desire and the best of candy.
—Hon. John M. Gearin, of’71, the orator of the Alumni for the present year, writes that he is so busily engaged in the Oregon political canvass that it will be impossible for him to attend this year.
—We are glad to hear that Hon. W. C. McMichael has yielded to the solicitations of some of his constituents in Marshall Co. and consents to a renomination for joint representative by the People’s Convention next week. Mr. McMichael graduated in the law class of ’73.
—Men are born with two eyes, but one tongue, in order that they should see twice as much as they say.
Iidcal Items. ’	.
—One week and a half more.	-	",
—To-morrow is Trinity Sunday.	,
--The bass fishing in the lakes is excellent. -	.
—The Musical soiree on the 11th will be very finer. -—Phelan Hall has been painted. The tint yellow.
—Eveybody is preparing for Commencement-week, —Next Thursday will be the Feast of Corpus Christi, ’ —Bulletins were made out and sent away on the 7th. ~ —The days are becoming warm, if not downright hot.
—Our new Campbell press will be here in a short whiter.' —The Sacristan has taken possession of the new Sacristy. —Trolling for fish is fine fun provided your luck is good.
—Look out for Monday. The examiners will be on-hand.	.	-
—The health of the residents of Notre Dame has never been better.
—The examination of the Senior Class began on Wed-' nesday last.	.	.
—A full report of the St.-Stanislaus Philopatrian Society will appear next week.	. ■
—The boat-race this year will be very c.ose. Both , crews are in training.	.
--Let the coming Examination be even more brilliant, than that of February.
—Young men with the nightmare ought not to be so practical in their jokes.	•
—The invitations to the Commencement Exercises were' sent off this past week.	•	; •
—The old tree which graced the Campus has succumbed and fallen to the ground. ■	-.	'
Catalogues will be sent to all the students about two weeks after the Commencement.	.
—Be sure to send in your Commencement .programme’ in time for next week’s Scholastic.	;
—The mower was in operation on lawns about the Col-, lege for several days this past week.
—Nearly all the members of the Junior Department were out fishing on last Wednesday.	'	,
—The Thespians will play “ William Tell ” and “ The Irish Tutor ” during Commencement-week.
—The telegraphic wires here were broken by the storm on the 1st. They were repaired the next day.
—Sig. Gregori is rapidly bringing his work on the ceil- ■ ing of the main aisle of the church to an end.
I/—Very Rev. Father Sorin declared himself highly pleased with the Scientific Lectures on the evening of the 7th. V - —It is about time the Society men were getting their badges ready. If they wait until the last day there will be a rush.	-
—The College Librarian returns thanks to Hon. P. B.-Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio, for a donation of books to his library.	-
—The promenade on the north part of the Campus measures 1408 feet. The southern promenade is %ths of a mile in length.	’
—A great many old Thespians will be back for the Commencement-week. A large number of the old St. Cecilians will also be here.
—The Internationals refused to play the third game with the Centennials, therefore the latter claim two of the three games to be played by them.
—The regular monthly Conference was held last Wednesday at the Presbytery. Papers were read by Rev. Fathers Maher, Franciscos and Johannes.	'
—The exhibition given by the St. Cecilians on the first, has been praised by every one. Many would like to see it repeated during the Commencement-week.
—We noticed a young man pacing up and down one of. the halls in bare head last Monday. His motto was not ‘ Shoot that hat!’ but ‘ Shoot the man that took that hat.’
650
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—We hope that no society will make any unnecessary display between this and Commencement. There is enough work on hand at present. Work now, and play afterwards.
—Messrs. Gillen and Dehner, of the Scientific Association, delivered short lectures on science in Phelan Hall, illustrating them by experiments. They lectured before a fine audience.
—At the close of the scientific entertainment, last Wednesday evening, Rev. Father Zahm gave a number of very interesting experiments in optics to the large audience which .filled Phelan Hall.
—By mistake, but not of the editor, proof-reader nor compositors, the names of W. T. Ball, for piano, W. H. Wells for guitar, and S. McDonnell for flute, were omitted from the roll of honor last week.
—To accommodate the demands of the College, a new and large building will be erected for kitchen purposes this coming summer. The building has become too small for the large establishment here.
—The grass is being mowed along the banks of the upper lake. This, with other work done there, will make it more pleasant for the spectators when the boat-race takes place during Commencement-week.
—The members of St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Association return thanks through Mr. Nolan to Mr. Brophy and the members of the Father Mathew Temperance Association, Chicago, for favors shown them.
—We understand that the hot-house will be built where the old steam-house now stands. By the way, could not the house as it now stands be easily turned into a fine and large hot-house? It is of the right size.
—“ Why,” he asked, gazing dreamily at a decayed tree, “is this poor tree like a cedar?” We gave it up, and with a faltering voice he gently said: “ Because it’s never green.” He was fined a box of partigas instanter.
—‘Three excellent courses of lectures will be arranged for the next scholastic year. One course will be on Literature, one on History, and one on Science. They will begin about the middle of the month of October.
—The Minims took a most enjoyable trip to the St. Joe Farm, last Wednesday. That they had a good time we have every reason to believe, for such each and all declare. Four large conveyances, each capable of holding a dozen or so, were used to take them to the Farm.
—The next number of the “ Philomathean Standard ” will be a Centennial one, with one hundred pages of manuscript matter. It will contain a number of contributions from the old members of the editorial staff of the “ Standard.”
—Everyone should remember that there will be published in the Scholastic the roll of honor next week and the week after. This last will be for conduct up to the close of the Commencement exercises. We hope that the last roll will be the largest of the year.
—There will be only two more numbers of the Scholastic printed this scholastic year. After the number published the Saturday following Commencement we will take our vacation. The first number of next scholastic year will be printed about the 19th or 26th of August.
—All students desiring extra copies of the Scholastic containing the account of the Commencement Exercises should leave their orders at the Students’ Office. We will publish only the usual edition unless we receive extra orders for the paper through the Students’ Office.
—The Minims received an invitation last Saturday to visit the Museum and Laboratory in Phelan Hall. They were showed some experiments with electric batteries, etc., and were well satisfied with their first visit to Science Hall. They return to the director their heartfelt thanks for the enjoyment he procured them.
— The 38th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held June 6th. Masters Knight, Davenport, Hamilton, Turnbull and W. Arnold were admitted to membership. Essays were read by Messrs. Wid-dicombe and Flanagan; declamations were given by Meesrs. E. Arnold, Schmidt, French and Nelson.
—We hope that no one will be allowed to read any’ es-says on Society Day. Let all write their orations, then commit them to memory before delivering them. It is too much to sit and listen for a couple of hours to young men reading from manuscript. Let each Society insist that its representative speak, and not read, on Society-day.
—Let every one taking part in the exercises during Commencement-week endeavor to do his part in the best manner possible. If each person act in this way there can be no doubt but thatall the exercises will be carried out to the satisfaction of everybody. There is abundance of talent in the College, and it should be the duty of those possessing it to utilize it during Commencement-week.
—The principal amusements these beautiful evenings after supper on the Junior Campus are mostly of a pedestrian character. A few evenings past, some well-disposed and fun-making individual set up an album of some value for the best and swiftest runner, to be encumbered with a grain-bag. After three laughable, side-splitting races, the prize was awarded to Charles Orsinger. Rev. C. Delehanty presented it with a few appropriate but rather lengthy remarks. Some benevolent gentleman intends offering other prizes which will be hotly contested for some evening next week.
—The following is the score of a game of baseball played on the 7th inst., between the Miami B. B. C. and a picked ten:
MIAMIS.
picked.
r. b.
Heeb, p.................
Laub, lb................
Burger, 3 b.............
Reynolds, 2 b...........
English, 1. s. s........
Mosal, r. f.............
Flanagan, r. s. s.......
Schubert, 1. f..........
Corbin, c. f............
Hagerty, c. and capt....
Total...............
Goldsberry, c...........
Kinney, p...............
Fox, 1. s. s............
Boos, lb................
Peltier, 2 b............
Campau, 3 b.............
Vananiee, 1. f..........
Nicholas, r. s. s.......
Arnold, r.f......... ...
McClory, c. f...........
Total.........8 27
Umpire, J. M. Cavanaugh.
Scorers. Phelan and Widdicombe.
—The following is the programme of the grand Musical Soiree to be given in the College parlor June 11th, 1876, at 8 o’clock p. m. :
PART FIRST. Overture—“ Crown Diamonds ”..............Orchestra
Piano Solo—“Last Idea of Weber”.......Jos. Campbell
Violin'Solo—“ O cara”—(Fantasia)......... W. Byrne
Song—“ Tyrant, soon I’ll burst thy chains ”—(Barbier di Shevilia).........................C. Robertson
Piano Solo—“Last Rose of Summer ”........W. Breen
Violin Solo—“ De Beriot’s 11th Air.......A. Burger
Flute Solo............................H. Leonhardt
Song and Guitar.......................A. Hamilton
Chorus—“Land of the Beautiful ”.......Choral Union
PART SECOND. “Potpourri ”.............................0 rch estra
Piano Solo—“Love’s Pleading’’............Wm.Ball
Violin—Overture “Muette di Portici”...Jos. McHugh Song—“ Schubert’s Serenade”...........E. Riopelle
Violin—“Vonmeinem Berglein”..............F. Keller
Guitar—“Fandango”........................W. Wells
Violin—Overture “Poet and Peasant”....F. Hoffman
Piano Solo...............................Carl Otto
Violin—“Ven ich am Fenster Steh ”.....M. Kauffman
Violin—“Horst du das Machtige”........A. K. Schmidt. Grand Finale—“Star-Spangled Banner”... .Choral Union
—We are glad’to see that our esteemed Bishop, Right Rev. Dr. Dwenger, ofFort Wayne, has given instructions for the due celebration of the Centennial Anniversary in his diocese. In a circular letter to his clergy, he says: “We have every reason on the coming anniversary of our national independence to thank God in a public and solemn manner for the innumerable blessings bestowed upon us. We desire therefore, that throughout our entire diocese the coming Fourth of July be religiously celebrated. We prescribe as a Mass of thanksgiving the solemn celebra
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
651
tion of the Mass of the Most Holy Trinity, cum Gloria, Credo, et orationepro gratiarumactionesubunaconclusione. After Mass, Benediction with theBlessed Sacrament, and the Te Deum.” At a time when the despots of Europe are leagued in persecuting the Church of God—when the Catholics of Russia are whipped and beaten in order to compel them to attend the State churches—when William of Prussia and his Chancellor debar those in their dominions from all religious services, and are aiming not only at the utter extinction of Catholicity but of all social and moral law —as their co-workers in Italy have lately shown us in an advanced stage—at such a time Catholics cannot fail to appreciate to their fullest extent the blessings of a free representative government.	’
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Atfield, J. Brown, V. Baca, W. Breen, D. Byrnes, E. Bearss, W. Ball, F. Belford, F. Brady, J. Campbell, P. Cooney, F. Claf-fey, J. Connolly, R. Calkins, T. Carroll, J. Coleman, W. Dechant, J. Dempsey, L. Evers, J. Gunn, A. Hertzog, J. Harkin, J. Herrmann, P. Kennedy, F. Keller, J. Kreutzer, W. Keily, J. Krost, E. Monohan, P. Mattimore, P. J. Mattimore, H. Maguire, C. Myers, R. Maas, W. Murdock, S. Miller, J. Miller, P. McCaw-ley, G. McNulty, L. McCollum, R. McGrath, W. McGorrisk, J. McEniry, P. McCullough, M. McCue, S. McDonnell, P. Neill, J. Neidhart, H. O’Brien, T. Peifer, W. Pollard, L. Proud-homme, T. Quinn, W. Smith, C. Saylor, G. Saylor, G. Sullivan, F. Schlink, W. Wells, R. White.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Arnold, W. Arnold, 0. A. Bell, A. Bergck, A. Burger, P. Boos, C. Clarke, W. Connelly, J. Carrer, E. Collins, C. Campau, W. Dodge, G. Donnelly, W. Davis, E. Davenport, J. English, J. Foley, J. French, J. Fox, F. Flanagan, C. Faxon, H. Faxon, F. Goldsberry, S. Goldsberry, W. Taulby, F. Hoffman, J. Healey, B. Heeb, A. Hamilton, M. E. Halley, J. P. Kinney, M. Kauffman; F. Lang, R. Mayer, M. McAuliffe, C. Orsinger, C. Peltier F. Pleins, J. Perea, F. Rosa, J. Reynolds, W. Ryan, C. Roos, G> Sugg, F.‘Smith, W.‘Turnbull, N. H. Vanamee.' \	‘	' MINIM DEPARTMENT.
0. Lindberg, T. McGrath, F. Carlin, Lee Frazee, A Buerger, F. Campau, A. Bushey, G. Lowrey, G. Rhodius, M. Gustine, P. Nelson, J. Davis, J. O. Stanton, P. Heron, C. Bushey, W. Cash, W. Coolbaugh, P. Haney, G. Lambin, W. McDevitt, H. McDonald, E. Oatman, L. Knapp, J. Seeger, W. Smith.
Class Honors. “
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, JUNE 8,1876.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
O. W. Lindberg, T. F. McGrath, L.Frazee, J. A. Duffield, F. Carlin, A. Buerger, F. A. Campau, J. A. Bushey, G. Lowrey, G. Rhodius, iM. Gustine, P. Nelson, J. Davis, J. Stanton, P. Heron.

—On last Thursday the young ladies of the Graduating Class read in presence of the examination bureau their criticisms on English Authors and Literature; Rev. Father Vagnier and Toohey, C. S. C. and Mr. Cressup of Cincinnati, were also present. On Monday the 5th, the same young ladies were examined in Mental Philosphy, the Rev. President of Notre Dame College, with Rev. Fathers Vagnier and Zahm, being the examiners. The examination of this class in English studies will close this week. On the 10th, the First Senior Algebra Class will be examined. On the 12th the Latin, French and German Classes will be examined, and the English Studies will commence on the 16th... .In the Conservatory of music the examination commenced on the 5th and will continue every afternoon till all the Classes excepting the First have been examined ....On Tuesday the 20th the young ladies of the First Class in Music, Vocal and lustrumentai, will give a soiree interspersed with essays from the Graduating Class....
All is animation and cheerful anticipation of prizes and honors among the pupils... .The closing exercises of the Month of May were exquisitely beautiful. Mother Superior brought with her from Europe a number of beautiful banners for the different Sodalities. These banners added much to the beauty of the procession formed by the relig-ous and pupils that wound its way, amid lights and flowers, through the graceful avenues and groves of St. Mary’s. The Academy, Convent and gardens were brilliantly illuminated. Very Rev. Father General honored the occasion by his venerable presence. He addressed those assembled in words of glowing fervor, and at the close thanked them for the pleasure they had given him of participating in such a pious scene... .The pupils were delighted last evening, the 5th, to receive from Mother Su- . perior the fine engravings of the complete Dusseldorf series, which she obtained for the benefit of all the pupils at St. Mary’s. She has also enriched the Art Department with many choice contributions. This department is most dour ishing. The delightful weather gives the sketchers fine opportunities for exercising their skill in landscape-drawing. Indeed a sketch of the sketchers themselves would make a very graceful picture. The work in water colors and oil being done in the Studio attracts the attention and admiration of visitors, and the criticisms of connoiseurs who visit this department is very encouraging to the young artists. Many fine specimens of artistic skill will be exhibited during the Examination.
For Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct Deportment and Strict Observance of Rules, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Clarke, H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, A. St. Clair, L. Arnold, E. York, I. Reynolds, K. McNamara, L. Ritchie, A. O’Connor, J. Bennett, J. Nunning, M. Faxon, F.Dil-ger, SI. Julius, M. Walsh, E. Mann, A Byrne, A. Duncan, S. Hole, M. Cravens, P. Gaynor, A. Dennehey, R. Casey, A. Hen-neberry, J. Kreigh, K. Hutchinson, R. Neteler, M. Dailey, B. Spencer, G. Welch, H. Russell, M. and E. Thompson. S. Moran, E. O’Connor, S. and I. Edes, N. Tuttle, S. Swalley, E. Cannon, L. Fawcett, S. Cash, D. Cavenor, D. Osborne, H.Hand, M.Ussel-man, M. Markey, L. Schwass, A. Miller, C. Morrill, C. Fawcett, L. Weber, A. McCormack, 100 par excellence. Misses A. Walsh,’ M. Brady, B. Wade, L. Kelly, M. Spier, L. O’Neil, H. Julius, M.’ Gaynor, B. Siler, I. Maas, K. Casey, G. Youell, N. King, M. Siler, M. Hooper, L. Tighe, L. Leppig, F. Gurney, N. O’Meara.
'	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Harris*, I. Fisk*, M. Ewing*, H. Dryfoos*, E. Lange* N. McGrath*, M. Hogan*, L‘. Walsh*, L. Hutchinson* A Koch*, N. Mann* M. Redfield*, M. Hoffman*, E. Wight*, A-Kirchner*, N. Johnson*, A. McGrath*, D. Gordon*, J. Mitchell, J. Kingsbury, A. Cavenor, M. Schulthies, B. Wilson, A Cullen, L. Faulkner, M. Derby, A. Morgan, M. McGrath, M. Brooks, L. Chilton, M. Mulligan, L. White, M. Davis, L. Merritt, L.Kinsella,
MINIM DEPARTMENT. - .
Misses A. Ewing*, E. Mulligan*, M. Hughes*, F. Fitz*, J. Smith*, C. Trull*, A. Duffield*, A. and L.Schnurrer*,C. Hughes, E. Simpson, R. Goldsberry, M.'Lambin, M. McFadden, J. Duffield, M. Feehan.	.	.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN STUDIES.
2d Sr.—Misses A. Harris. M. O’Connor I. Fisk, B. Wilson.
SdJSr.—Misses M. Schultheis, M. Ewing, A. Cullen, H. Dryfoos, E. Lange.	.	.
1st Prep.—Misses N. McGrath, A. Cavenor, J. Holladay.
2d Prep.—Misses M. Hogan, L. Walsh, L. Hutchinson, M. Derby, A. Koch, N. Mann, M. Redfield, A. Ewing, M. Hoffinan, E. Wight.	.
Jr. Prep.—Misses A. Kirchner, A. Morgan, N. Johnson, L. -Kinsella, L. Merritt, L. Faulkner, D. Gordon, J. Mitchell, A. McGrath, E. Mulligan, M. McGrath, C. and M. Hughes.
1st Jr—J. Smith, M. Fehan, R. Goldsberry, M. Lambin, J. Duffield, J. Kingsbury.
2d Jr.—A. Duffield, L. and A. Schnurrer.	_
HONORABLY MENTIONED FOR I3IPR0VEMENT IN ENGLISH LESSONS.
Grad.. Class—Misses A. Clarke, H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Den- . nehey, K. Joyce, A. St. Clair, L. Arnold, E. York, I. Reynolds, K. McNamara.
1st Sr. Class—Misses L. Ritchie, A Walsh, A. O’Connor, J. Bennett, J. Nunning, M.Faxon, F. Dilger, M.Dunbar, M. Julius, L. Johnson, M. Brady.
2d Sr. Class—Misses M. Walsh, L. Kelly, E. Mann, A. Byrne,.
652
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
A. Duncan, S. Hole, M. Cravens, P. Gaynor, A. Dennehey, M. Spier, L. O’Niel, R. Casey, A. Heneberry, H. Julius, J. Kreigh, K. Hutchinson, R. Neteler, M. Dailey, B. Spencer, G. Welch.
3d Sn. Class—blisses C. Morgan, H. Russell, M. and E. Thompson, S. Moran, M. Gaynor, B. Siler, I. Maas, S. and I. Edes, N. Tuttle, K. Casey.
1st Prep. Class—Misses G. Youell, L. Gustine, S. Swalley, 1? King, E. Cannon, M. Siler, E. Edes, G. Wells, M. Hooper, L. Fawcett, L. Tighe, S. Cash, D. Cavenor, D. Osborne, H. Hand.
2d Prep. Class—Misses M. Usselman, M. Markey, L. Schwass, A. Miller, L. Leppig, F. Gumey, L. Brownbridge, C. Morrill, C. Fawcett, N. O’Meara, L. Weber, A. McCormack.
Latin Class—Misses M. Cravens, K. McNamara, N. Foote.
FRENCH.
1st Class—Misses K. Joyce, F. Dilger, E. and M. Thompson, N. McGrath, J. Kreigh, B. Wilson, E. Harris.
2d Class—Misses A. Clarke, H. Russell, M. Reiley, B. Spencer, P. Gaynor,'E. Wight.
3rd Class.—Misses J. Bennett, A. McGrath, A. Walsh, M. Walsh) AL O’Connor, J. Holladay.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses J. Nunning, N. Tuttle, AL Faxon, E. Den-nehey, A. O’Connor, R. Neteler, M. Schultheis, H. Dryfoos, A. Harris.
2d Class—Misses AL Julius, N. Tuttle, AL Dunbar, L. Kelley, A. Kirchner, A. Koch. 2d Div.—Misses H. Julius, L. Leppig, A. Kirchner, AL Usselman, D. Gordon, L. Walsh.
3d Class—Afisses L. Johnson, AL Spier, E. Lange, I. Alaas, S. Henneberry, L. O’Neill, AI. Alarky, AI. Lambin.
—“What’s going on?” said a well-known bore to Douglas Jerrold. “ I am,” was the reply, and on he went.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,

Founded 1842.
Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundsed Students. Situated near the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, and the Peninsular Railroad,- it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
TERMS.
Afatriculation Fee...................................... §5	00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek included), Washing and Alending of Linens, per session of five months •................................ 150	00
French, German, Italian, Spanish, and Hebrew, eah... 10 00q
Instrumental Music...................................... 12	50
Use of Piano............................................ 10	00
Telegraphy.......................................... 10	00
t ( General Class Principles................. 10	00
Vocal Lessons, } Vocal Culture...................... 15	0Q
Elocution—Special Course............................. 5	00
Use of Library (per session)......................... 1	00
Drawing............................................. 15	00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus........... 5	00
( Classical Course................... 10	00
Graduation Fee,-? Scientific Course.................. 10	00
■	( Commercial Course.................... 5	00
Students who spend their vacation at the University are charged extra.................................... 40	00
Doctors’ Fees and Medicines at Physician’s charges. Students received at any time, their Session beginning With date of entrance.
PAYMENTS TO BE MADE INVARIABLY IN ADVANCE.
Class-Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The first session begins on the first Tuesday of September the second on the first of February.
Rev. P. J. Golovin, C. S. C., Pres’t.
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD-
(Of the Class of ’62)
• ATTORNEY AT LAW, NOTARY PUBLIC, AND COMMISSIONER ZOU ALL THE STATES, 206 BROADWAY (Cor. Fulton), NEW YORK.
Special .Attention Given to Depositions.
PROPRIETOR OP THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE I
Whilst I return my thanks to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I beg leave to inform the public that I have, at the urgent requestor many of my patrons, purchased SEVERAL NEW CARRIAGES and BUGGIES, and moved into the LIVERY STABLES
A.ttacliecL to tile JVationnl Hotel, and A <1-
jaecnt to tlic Hake Shore and MUcliigan Soutliern Depot.
Now, that telegraphic communication has been made bet veen Noire Dame and my office, through the Michigan Southern Denot, I sha 11 be prompt to have passengers in time to meet all trains.
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mm j’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P. S HICKEY.
CANDYI CANDYI CANDY
The Low Prices Still Continue at
P. L. Garrity’s Candy Factory,
200 S. Clark St.,	'
CHICAGO, ILL.
Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
Broken Candy................................  15c
Fine Mixed Candy..............................25c
Choice Mixed Candy............................35c
Caramels......................................35c
Molasses and Cream Candy......................25c
Px’opoi’tioxiately How Prices to Wholesale Cash Buyers.
Have you any thought of going to California? Are you going West, North, or Northwest?. Yon want to know the best routes to take? The shortest, safest, quickest, and most comfortable routes are those owned by the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company. It owns over two thousand miles of the best road there is in the country. Ask any ticket'agent to show you its mapsand time cards. All ticket agents can sell you through tickets by this route. '	x	.
Buy your tickets via the Chicago and Northwestern Railway for
Sacramento. Ogden, Salt. Lake City, Cheyenne, Denver, Omaha, Lincoln, Council Blufis, Yankton, Sioux City, Dubuque, Winona, St. Paul, Duluth, Marquette. Green Bay, Oshkosh, Madison, Milwaukee, and all points West or Northwest of Chicago.	.
If you wish the best travelling accommodations, you will buy your tickets by this route, and wifi take no other.
This popular route is unsurpassed for speed, comfort and safety. The smooth, well-bilasted and perfect track of steel rails, Westinghouse air brakes, Miller's safety platform and couplers, the celebrated Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, the perfect telegraph system of moving trains, the regularity with which they run, the admirable arrangement for running through cars from Chicago to all points West, North, and Northwest, secure to passengers all the comforts in modern railway ir.-iveling.	.
1’TJL.LWA.iN PALACE CARS
are run on all trains of this ro"ad.	.
This is the only line running these cars between Chicago and St Paul, or Chicago and Milwaukee.
At Omaha our sleepers connect with the Overland Sleepers on the Union Pacific Railroad for all points west of the Missouri River.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to	-
Marvin liugbitt,	W. H. Stennett,
General Superintendent.	' " Gen’l Passenger Agent
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	.653
JANSEN, McCLURG & CO.,
Importers and Dealers in Ririe
Books and Stationery,
117 AND 119 STATE STREET,
CHICAGO, ILTjIUTOIS.
All Kinds of Engraving Done,
SOUTH BEND, INTO I ATTA.
ST. JOSEPH HOTEL,
Opposite the Post Office,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Rates, S2.OO I’er Day.
JOHN G. GREENAWALT, PROPRIETOR.
ROOT & SONS MUSIC CO.
OFFER SPECIAL INDUCEMENTS TO PURCHASERS—AT WHOLESALE AND RETAIL-OFtFOREICN AND DOMESTIC SHEET MUSIC AND MUSIC BOOKS, THEIR OWN IMPORTATION OF VIOLIN AND GUITAR STRINGS, ACCORDEONS, CONCERTINAS, FLUTES, GUITARS, VIOLINS, PICCOLOS CLARIONETS, HARMONICAS, DULCIMERS, ZITHERS, VIOLAS, VIOLONCELLOS, AND BRASS AND GERMAN SILVER BAND INSTRUMENTS; ALSO PIANOS AND ORGANS, OR ANY ARTICLE IN THE' LINE OF MUSICAL MER-CHANDISE.'") GENERAL northwestern ^AGENTS FOR THE STECK1PIANO AND STANDARD ORGAN? QUALITY GUARANTEED. CATALOGUES AND PRICE LISTS FURNISHED FREE. CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
156 STATEST.
^CHICAGO?
The Naturalists’ Agency
Has been established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving coUectors of specimens of Natural History an opportunity of buying and selling minerals, fossils, shells, birds, plants, &c., &c Nearly all the collectors in America, and many of those in Europe, will visit this city during 1876, so that this will be the best opportunity ever offered for disposing of and purchasing specimens. My store-rooms are within ten minutes’ walk of the Centennial grounds, on the line of the Chestnut-street cars. I shall also have a branch within one minute’s walk of the main building. I have already in stock over $30,000 worth of specimens, including the finest specimens ever found of Amazon stone, brookite or arkansite, perofskite, nigrin, green wavellite, peganite, tellurium ores, feldspar, albite, petrified wood, smoky quartz; the birds and animals peculiar to the Rocky Mountains, &c., &c. I have spent nearly $7,000 during the past year in the collection and purchase of specimens. Special attention given to collections for schools and colleges. Correspondence solicited, with those wishing to buy or sell specimens, at an early date, as an illustrated catalogue will be issued before the 1st of May. I refer to ...
Prof. GEO. J. BRUSH, Dr. JOSEPH LEIDY, Prof. ASA GRAY, Prof. J. S. NEWBURY.
A. E- FOOTE, M. D.,
Fdlow of the A. A. A. S., Prof. Chemistry and Mineralogy.
CL ZET. SEZEEEEE, Hats, Caps and Furs, TRUNKS,
Traveling Bags, Gloves, and Gents’■Furnishing Goods, Etc., UO Micliigaii Street,
’ SOUTH ZBZEUUD THSTZD.
BUZBY & GALLAGHER,
MERCHANT TAILORS
Clothiers and Dealers in
Gens’ Furnishing Goods, Eats Caps, etc.,
109 JVTicliigan St.,
south zbzejstid, mriDTA_nsrA_-
The
A. McKay, Prop.,
USTILZES, MTOTKTG-JAUr. .
Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House
A. CL SHIRE,
WHOKSSALS
goto m Joao Oqwg, 1O1 Main Street,
Two Boors Sona Of IS. Gillen’S, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA [Branch of 184 E. Madison, Chicago.]
654
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO, . KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street. '	Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City: nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo....2	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.7 50 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line...........................7	40	am	9	00	pm
Pekin and Peoria Fast Express..........4	00	pm	10	00	am
Peoria Day Express.....................7	50	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex......7 40 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express..7 50 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 2 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation..................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Ttonte to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express. .10 00 a.m. 3 45 p.m. Pern accommodation................ 5 00 p.m. 9 35 a.m.
Night Express.....................10 00 p.m.	6 50 a.m.
A. M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen1! Pass. Agent.	' General Superintendent.
rittsburgh, Fort Wayne & Chicago,
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABEE.
NOVEMBER, 1875.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and. Madison Sts. (West Side) On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
Q Trains with Through Cars t° ° NEW YORK. .		No. 2. .Day Ex. Ex. Sund’y	No. 6. Pac. Exp Daily.	No. 4. .Night Ex Ex Sa & Su
Lv. CHICAGO			9 00 a.m.	5 15 p.m.	10 00 p.m.
Ar.	FT. WAYNE		2 25 p.m.	11 35 “	5 20 a.m
	Rochester		1 IS a.m.	11 12 “	5 58 “
a	Pittsburgh		2 20 “	12 15 p m.	7 05 “
Lv.	Pittsburgh				3 10 “	1 10 “	8 10 “
Ar.	Cresson				
	Harrisburg		12 05 p.m.	11 05 “	4 13 “
cc	Baltimore		6 25 “	3 15 a.m.	7 45 “
<c	Washington		9 10 “	6 20 “	9 07 “
	Philadelphia		4 15 “	3 10 “	8 05 “
u	New York		7 35 “ ’	6 50 “	11 15 “
Cl	New Haven		11 10 “	10 49 “	
It	Hartford		12 40 a.m.	12 23 “	
ft	Springfield		1 35 “	1 00 p.m.	7 03 “
cc	Providence					4 25 “	3 48 “	7 40 “
«(	Boston		5 50 “	4 50 “	05 “
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washinston City, Philadelphia and New York without change. '1 hrough tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. R. MYERS, G. P. & T. A.
THE OUD RELIABLE
DWIGHT HOUSE,
South. Bend, Ind.
Messrs. Knight and Mills have become managers of the above reliable and popular house, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first-class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladie- and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts ol home during their stay.
JERRY KNIGHT, I
CAPTAIN MILLS, jYr°Pnetors.
JAMES BONNEY
TECH! PHOTOGE,APHHFu Comer Michigan and Washington Sts., SOUTH ZBZETTTN
Hr. Bonney will be at his art gallery near the Scholastic office every Wednesday morning at eight o’clock. He has on hand photographs of the Professors of the University, members of the College Societies, together with a large collection of the Students who figured prominently here in former years. Orders by mail promptly attended to
itfantl Uenltal Butet
I
SOUTH BEND, IND.
NEWLY OPENED—FIRST CLASS IN ALL RESPECTS.
HENRY C. KNILL, Prop.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, April 16,1876, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 4LO a. m.. Night Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo
9 50; Cleveland240pm; Buffalo 9 05.	•	-
IO 36 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 35 p m; Cleveland 10 10.
12 37 p m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 50; Cleveland 10 10; Buffalo 4 00 am.
9 11 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2 40; Cleveland, 7 CO; Buffalo, 1 05 p u.
11 25pm, Fast Mail, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 3 50 a m; Cleveland 710 a m., Buffalo 12 45 p m.
7 OO p m, Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 41am, Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 p m, Chicago 6 am.
5 06am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 6; Chicago 820am.
4 54 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50; Chicago, 8 20
8 Ol am, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 01 a m; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
3 38 a m., Fast Mail. Arrives at Laporte 4 28 a.m.; Chicago, 6 55 a. m.
S 55 am, Local Freight. "
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-November 21,1875.
	♦Mail.	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	t Night Express
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles 	 “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		5 00 a.m 7 32 “ 9 02 “ 2 08 p.m 5 45 “	9 00 a.m 11 00 “ 12 09 p.m 3 55 “ ♦; 25 “	4 00 p.m 6 30 “ 8 20 “ Express. 10 15 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 8 55 “ 12 40 a m 3 30 “	9 00 pm 11 15 “ 12 35 “ 4 52 8 00 a m
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 40 “ 3 45 p,m 5 10 “ 7 30	10 05 a m 12 32 p.m 4 23 “ 5 35 “ 8 00 “	4 CO p-m 7 15 “ 6 10 a.m 7 50 “ 10 20	.	5 40 p.m 9 25 “ 2 30 a.m 4 05 “ 6 30	9 50 p m 12 42 a.m 4 30 “ 5 50 “ 8 00 “
Wiles and Sontli Bend Division.
GOING NORTH.
Lv. South Bend—8 15 a.m.	7 15 p m.	§9 06	a.m.	§7 00	p.m
“ Notre Dame—8 22 “	7	23 “	9 07	“	7 07	“
Ar. Niles— 9 00 «	8	00 “	9 40	“	7 40	“
.	' GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles—	6	30	a.m.	4 20 p.m.	§8 00	a.m.	85 00	p.m
“ Notre Dame—7 07 “	4	56 “	8 32	“	5 32	“
Ar. South Bend—7 15 “	5	05 “	8 40	•*	5 40	“
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily.	^Saturday and Sunday excepted.'
gSunday only.
G. L. Elliott,	Wm. B. Strong,
Agent, South Bend,	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago
Henby C. Wentworth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago. .
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dame.
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
655
TAXIDERMIST
OTTO VON TESMAR
(One Mile west of Notre Dame University J
CONDUCTED BY THE SISTERS OF HOLT CROSS
124 Orchard street, North Side, Chicago, Ill.,
Does all kinds of work pertaining to the Taxidermic Art at reason able prices. Also prepares Skeletons, refits Cabinets of Natural History, renews Specimens, etc., etc. For farther particulars address
as above.
mh 11-tJy
The Enemy of Disease!
TO MAN AND BEAST
Is the Grand Old
Which has stood the test of 40 years.
There is ho sore it will not heal, no lameness it will not cure, no ache, no pain, that afflicts the human body, or the body of a horse or other domestic animal, that does not yield to its magic touch. A bottle costing 25c., 50c., or $1.00 has often saved the life of a human being,- and restored to life and use
fulness many a valuable horse.
mh 11-ly.
This Institution, situated on the beautiful and picturesque banka of the St. Joseph River, is everything that could be desired as a locality for a female academy. AU the branches of a solid and complete education are taught here. Music, both vocal and instrumental, and the modern languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction. .
Particular attention is paid to the religious instruction of Catholic pupils. Pupils of all denominations are received, and for the sake of order required to attend the public religious exercises with the members of the Institution.
The buildings are spacious and commodious, suited to the educational requirem' nts of the day, and furnished with all modern improvements. Every portion of the building is heated by steam, nd hot and cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartments.
The grounds are very extensive, beautifully adorned, and situated in that charming seclusion which is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power.	■
The proximity of the two institutions to each other is a great convenience to parents having children at both, when-they visit their sons and daughters.	'
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the Twentieth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy for the year 1874-75, or address
St. Mary's Academy,
Notre Dame, Ind.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
Published Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
APPEOVED BY HIS HOLINESS PIUS E., AND MANY EMINENT PRELATES
DR. C. H. MIDDLETON, TDETTTIST, 109 ZSAICYZTG-JL3ST STBEET, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
CLOTHING HOUSE!
MEYEB LIVING-STOK,
60 W asEiingtoii. St.,
Three Doors Wt of Blum’s Cigar Store, SOUTH BEND, IND
^^“Keeps on hand a large stock of Hate, Caps, Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. All the Students should give him a call.
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may he mentioned
Aubrey de Vere, Grace Ramsay,
Henri Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton,	Eliza Allen Starr,
The Misses Howe, The Authoress of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etcn etc.
T3BMS :
One Year.................................$ 2 50
Five Years......................................10	00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of §2 each).20	OO
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All subscriptions, communications, books or periodicals for notice, etc., should be addressed to the	.
REV. EDITOR OF THE AVE MARIA,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company, 115 & 121 Nassau St., New York.
I I
I
ESTABLISHED 1852.
Dealers in
BOOTS JYBTZD SHOES,
The Largest Retailing House in the State
Cornerof WhiHgtoD. sa and Micliigan. Sts., south bend.
HAIR-CUTTING, SHAVING, SHAMPOOING, ETC. HEKRY SPETH, . Corner 'Wasliington and. AIlelilgaiL Sts., (Under Coonley’s Drug Store) SOUTH BEND INDIANA.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
M. Livingston & Co.,
ABE THE
Leading Merchant Tailors in South Bend
They Havethe Best Cutter in tlie City, and make suits in the latest styles at the lowest prices. Their stock of Clotiling, Clotlis, Cassimeres, Vestings, and Gents’ LMii’iiisliiiig Goods, is lie largest and most complete, and comprises all the new styles. Satislaction guaranteed on all goods.
EEMEMBEK THE PLACE.
91 MICHIGAN St., SOUTH BEND, IND.
MCDONALD,
THE EHOTOG-HAFHEE,
Is still at his
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting ofthree large enclosed lots, a good two story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage shed, coal-house, young trees,grapes, shrubbery, etc., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
„ PIANOS! “THE STECK”
WAS AWARDED THE ONLY COLD MEDAL AT VIENNA EXPOSITION OF 1873, BY THE MOST EXACTING AND INCORRUPTIBLE JURY EVER CONVENED AND IN THE FACE OF THE MOST POWERFUL COMPETITION. THESE PIANOS ARE UNEXCELLED IN POWER AND PURITY OF TONE AND PERFECTION OF GENERAL MECHANISM, WHILE IN POINT OF DURABILITY THEY ABSOLUTELY SURPASS ALL OTHERS.	'
CEN’L AGENTS IN CHICACO-THE
ROOT & SONS
MUSIC CO.
Go to HENRY HELLER, THE CHAMPION Barber and Hair-Dresser, 87 MICHIGAN ST. ' Work d one to satisfaction. Give me a call.
1776 MUSIC BOOKS. 1876
Centennial Collection
OF
NATIONAL SONGS.
All the prominent National Songs, in an elegant collection, well harmonized, and with piano (or organ) accompaniment. Every American needs a copy of such a book as this, and the Songs are the best of all Songs for use in this Centennial year.
.Contents:
Keller’s American Hymn. Hail Columbia.
Star-Spangled Banner. Our Flag is there.
Red, White and Blue. Yankee Doodle.
To thee, O Country. Columbia the Gem. Watch on'the Rhine. Fatherland. [German.] Wearing of the Green. St. Patrick’s Day. Russian National Hymn.
God save the Queen.
Rule Brittania.
Roast Beef of Old England.
Men of Harlech. [Welch].
Partant pour Syria.
Marseilles Hymn.
Garibaldi Hymn.
King Oscar. [Swedish.] Campbell’s are Cornin’. Bruce’s Address.
King Christian. [Danish.] Spanish National Hymn.
Austrian “	“
Plice in Cloth, 75 cents; Boards, 50 cents; Paper, 40 cents. Mailed, post-free, for above price.
MUSIC
appropriate to the year will be found in “American Tune Book.” (S1.50) in “ Father Kemp’s Old Folks Concert Tunes.” Tourjee’s Centennial Collection (40 cts), and in Sheet Music, Martha Washington Quadrilles, Centennial March, &c., &c.
CENTENNIAL HYMN
as sung at the-Opening Ceremonies in Philadelphia. Words by Whittier. Music By J. R. Paine. In 4 parts, for Mixed Voices. Price in Sheet Music form, 30 cts. In octavo form for Choruses, 10 cts. No celebration this year will be complete without the singing of this magnificent Hymn.
Centennial, Machinery, Horticultural, Memorial, and Agricultural Marches, each 50 cts; Washington’s Old (40 cts), and New (60 cts) Marches. Martha Washington’s Waltz [75 cts] and March. [50 cts]. Grand March, by Downing [60 cts]. Centennial Waltzes by Fliege [75 cts], and Crobe’s Medly of National Airs [75 cts] ; all have Splendid Illustrated Titles! and the best of music.
Centennial Collection
OB
NATIONAL SONGS.
An elegant and attractive volume, contains the National Songs of this and 12 other countries, in convenient form for Solo or Chorus singing. In Paper 40 cts. Boards 50 cts.
Camilla Collegensia. (cioth, §3.00; Gnt, sioo).
New, Enlarged Edition. All the famous College Songs, forming the wittiest, most entertaining, musical and classical collection of genial Songs and Glees for social singing ever brought together.'
DTTSOTU & OO_,
BOSTON.
J. E. DITSON & CO., CHAS. H. DITSON & CO.
Successors to Lee &Walker, 711 BlOSlW, Biff YORK.
Tliila.
LYON «Sc HEALY, Cliieago.