® 1) c JS’djolnot ic =^ear. PUBLISHED WEEKLY A.T NOTRE DAME. Hmtrd to tho gnfmsits of the Jtudewb.
“ LABOR OMNIA VINCIT.”
Vol. II. . UNIVEBSITY OF NOTBE DAME, IND., APBIL 24, 1869. No. 33,
The Irish Language.
AN ESSAY, BY F. S.
Language, we all know, is but a combination of sounds expressing thought—giving form and substance, as it were, to the workings of the human mind, and making them patent and t angible to the exterior senses. For some time after the creation there seems to have been but one general mode of expressing thought, one medium of communication between man and his fellow man until the presumptive creature, in a measure losing sight of the Divine providence, in the pride of his heart conceived the idea of building a tower that would reach heaven, or at least place him beyond the contingencies of a second deluge. The Almighty humbled his pride and baffled his designs by causing a confusion of tongues at the tower of Babel, and a consequent dispersion of the human race.
Since that epoch, different countries, peoples and tribes have had their peculiar combination of sounds or modes of expressing thought,, which in time gave rise also to corresponding signs, or marks, called the written language. These have been transmitted to posterity, more or less elaborated according to the extent to which they were used and the emergencies that called them forth. In this way, some of those now in existence have been enriched with sound-signs for almost every phase of expression or turn of the human mind, commending themselves by their intrinsic merits, and the many historic reminiscences connected with them, to the fond regard and fostering care of those who claim them.
Many of the ancient tongues have in the lapse of time been replaced by a fusion of various tongues into one, and among these hybridizations the modern English has taken a prominent and leading part, and is daily acquiring strength and
finish; but it cannot yet be conceded the depth and versatility of the older languages.
Every nation naturally cherishes its own. language, and it does so to a greater or less degree according to circumstances. As an instance, the Greeks but loved their tongue the more, the more it was banned by the Turkish foe, and from the ashes of thraldrom they have brought it forth, fresh and. youthful as a phoenix rising in newly-created power, after a literary slumber through ages of woe. It would be considered incongruous in a German not to know the German language, in a Frenchman not to know his own native tongue, in a native of Italy not to be familiar with the Tuscan, strange to say, an Irishman who knows not Irish is not deemed inconsistent. The different European tongues flourish in the Irish schools and colleges, but the student at home may have finished his education before he has yet learned aught of the sweet Gaelic in which his own St. Patrick preached to his heathen sires; a tongue which has been pronounced by one of linguistic attainments to be as clear as Latin, flexible and harmonious as Greek, stately as Spanish, soft as Italian, fluent as French, and expressive as German. To what, then, is thislack of knowledge of their sweet mother-tongue among the Irish and their descendants to be attributed ? Chiefly to the total exclusion of everything relating to it from the national schools of modern Ireland under the rule of the British lion. But the general tone of feeling about Irish literature at present among the learned, at home and abroad, indicates that a spirit is awakened to rouse from slumber and decay the dying mother tongue. The children of Ireland are no longer, as of old, flogged for lisping in the broad Celtic of their fathers; the people of Ireland should consider then, the advantages offered at home and abroad of acquiring a knowledge of this language, at the present day, as compared with the difficulties of
258
THE SCHOLASTIC TEAR.
the time when boys had suspended from the neck “ scores” or tablets, on which the number of incisions showed how often the prohibition to speak Irish had been"violated, and for which the schoolmaster inflicted on the delinquent a proportionate number of stripes. Verily that was beatins the language out of the country with a vengeance; yet depart it would not, till the lash of fashion and corruption was employed against it Instead of encouraging the national resources, spoliation and confiscation seemed to have been the sole end in view; the language was assailed as the preserver and upholder of their distinct nationality, the barrier against subjugation and submission. This species of hostility hasdescended to our own times. We find it operating in a variety of ways: the bolt of ridicule has been discharged against the use of the Irish tongue, and the greater the ignorance of the old national glory of Ireland, the greater the opprobrium, or rather the lower the estimation, in which it is held. In producing such a calamitous result, this strange phase of opinion, the educational institutes share. Expelled from the higher schools, its latest injury came from the despicable hedge school. It is a notorious fact that these wretched seminaries, so long under the ban of the law, became within the last two or three generations active instruments in the destruction of the Irish language. The utterance of an Irish sentence at school or at home incurred chastisement at the hand of the miserable pedagogue, though himself scarcely knowing any other language at the same time. And this spirit still exists, and is fostered in the “National Schools,” where love of the Irish tongue in the teacher, no less than in the student, is regarded as a crime. We find in the Second Volume of the 21st Report of the Commissioners of National Education in Ireland, an account of Newel, one of the commissioners, reporting against a teacher thus under his inspection, not, be it remarked, for teaching Irish in his school or encouraging its use, but for cultivating it personally as a literature, and solacing himself with it, doubtless, as a relaxation after the severe and ill-paid labors of his school were over.... “ Whitechurch, an untrained teacher, appears deficient in energy; he is pretty constantly employed in the translation of Irish MSS.; which may interfere with his vocation as schoolmaster!” No wonder then if under such a blighting influence as this spirit of intolerance exercised over everything national in Ireland, the native tongue should have almost totally disappeared from many parts
of the island. For ages a proscribed dialect, it seemed dying away fast and sensibly; or rather we should say the hearts that loved and prized it, both for its intrinsic worth and as a distinctive feature of their nationality, were succumbing gradually to the fate which they could not avert; and the generations that succeeded did not seem to inherit their instincts and their sympathies. Yet every man educated in Ireland henceforth should avail himself of the lectures and classes devoted to Irish studies: so ought every student, with the greatly increased facilities now offered, hold himself bound in honor to learn his native tongue and to give it preference whenever an opportunity presents of making use of it—at least in the family circle. It should be preserved, like the ruined monasteries, as an abiding relic of the glories of the past. But, it may be asked, what advantage is there in studying this much-neglected tongue? There is much use, for many reasons. It is useful to the philologist; it is useful to the antiquarian and the lover of literary lore; for if the Keltic is the most ancient of the six groups composing the Indo-European family of Ian* guages, as has been proved by J C. Zeiiss, a learned Bavarian,- and is generally admitted, surely to a mind capable of correct thoughts and calm judgment, the oldest tongue in Europe, one holding relationship with so many dialects, not only deserves to be retained in life but to be fostered and preserved. And if it thus commends itself to all, the children of Ireland should surely look upon it as a precious inheritance. They pride themselves on their Celtic origin: why not, then, hold the Celtic language equally dear? With it are interwoven a thousand national recollections;
. with it is wound up the history of their glory, of their fame. It should be fostered, again, for its own sake; for if age brings with it respect, and length of years command esteem, surely a language which has outlived three thousand years— years of renowned glory, of literary fame, nay years of persecutions and tribulation, a tongue in which the Milesian princes and statesmen wrote laws that have since served as a basis to others, deservedly merits from a historical point of view to be respected andesteemed as a national inheritance, and its culture as an ancient language should strenuously be advocated.
Thus would be obtained a key to the mine of wealth treasured up in the most celebrated archives of Europe: volumes treating of history, law, divinity, astronomy, poetry and romance; volumes • which would no doubt throw light on many sub-
K
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	259
jects of general interest even to the modern world. Apart from its claims upon the student, upon the general scholar, it may also commend itself to the attention of the divine, the lawyer, the physician, and all who have intercourse with the people whose living language it is.
[to be continued]
A Capital Error.
Mr. Editor : In a notice of the Yale Literary Magazine in the last Scholastic, it is said that the author of the article on “ Capital Crimes ” teaches a doctrine contradictory to that of your correspondent.
I have looked carefully over “ Capital Crimes,” and find it a very sensible article, with which I fully agree. lam altogether opposed to disfiguring a printed page with needless capitals.
The author of the Yale article says that words derived from proper names, and having “ no local or personal significance” should be written without capital initials; and he instances prussic (acid), china (porcelain), madeira (wine), daguerreotyper, italic (letters), etc., as examples. I heartily agree to this.
But Prussian, Chinese, Italian, Catholic, Christian, Protestant, Jewish, etc., form quite a different class of words. They have “ local or personal significance.”
I must therefore insist, Mr. Editor, that “I do not differ with the gentleman from Connecticut.” I am quite sure that he never writes Congregational with a small c when he wishes to refer to the sect of that name ; and, when reference is had to person or locality, he -would of course follow the same rule with American, French, Protestant and Anglican, as well as with
Catholic Christian.
“ The Two-Penny Gazette.”
The above-mentioned Gazette for the second week of April has been handed us this morning. It is an excellent number,—neatly written and in true newspaper style. On inspection, we find the articles interesting and valuable; in fact, we were agreeably surprised, on perusing it, to discover such unmistakable culture of mind. The only fault (if it can be called one) we can find with the Gazette, is the fact of its not being in print; nevertheless, we find it of a truly interesting character. As a means of
progress in literary composition, we think it well conceived and ingeniously executed. -
“ The Two-Penny Club ”—by whom the Gazette is conducted—is at present composed of eight active members (i. e., those who write an article weekly for it), and several distinguished honorary members. „
Since the beginning of the scholastic year, and up to the present time, the members have com-posed—and afterwards copied into the Gazette— over five hundred and twelve pages of closely written foolscap, i. e., an average of sixteen pages a week, which constitutes the Gazette. It may be well, probably, to mention the fact, that the articles are all original—quoting is not sanctioned. It is read before the St. Aloysius Philodemic Society every Tuesday evening, whenever time will permit. At the end of the scholastic year the numbers will be equally distributed among the members of the Club. We wish it success.	M.
College Bulletin.
Tables of Honor, April 16.
. Senior Department.
A. Reilly, D. Tighe, B. Vocke, H. H. Schnelker, L. Schmeider, J. Carroll, E. N. Thomas, J. Kane, L. Gaynor, D. J. Diemer.
Junior Department.
M. Harris, C. Marantette, V. Hackmann, J. Deehan, W. Rowan, J. Page, B. F. Roberts, D. Egan, J. Nash, J. Kline, G. Bahm.
Minim Department.
C. Campau, A. Cressner, J. Ford, D. Miller, A-Trumpff, C. Whitney.	-
Honorable Mention.
Moral Philosophy :—W. P. McClain, T. Ewing, James O’Reilly.
Mental Philosophy :—H. B. Keeler, D. Clarke.
Logic:—J. P. Rogers, A. W. Arrington.
The Professor of these three Classes takes pleasure in stating that the application and good spirit-which exist in them is all that he could desire, and he takes this occasion of congratulating publicly the young gentlemen who compose the Classes of Philosophy and Logic.
First Rhetoric :—Jno. Zahm,4F. Crapser, J. J. Fleming, J. Eisenman, J. M. Gearin, ^C. Men-augh, J. E. Shannahan. J. H Lane.
O'	*

263	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
Second Rhetoric:—E. Fitzharris, L. B. Logan, J. Montgomery, T. A. Kinsella, J. Harrison, E. N. Thomas, F. Ingersoll.
First Grammar and Composition—Grammar and Analysis:—E. B. Gambee, L. G. Dupler, D. J. Diemer, Porter Rhodes, J. Garhartstine, J. Vocke, J. Duffy, H. Schnelker, ^A. Menard, D. Fitzgerald, E. Bahm, M. McGinnis, M. Dupuis, T. Lappin, M. S. Ryan, W. Bird, J. O’Brien, J. Deehan, J. Broderick, J. H. Looby J. Alber.
Composition:—P. Rhodes, J. Vocke, E. Bahm, L. G. Dupler, E. B. Gambee, H. Schnelker, A. Menard, J. Garhartstine, J. W. O’Brien, J. Broderick, D. J. Diemer.
Letter-writing:—P. Rhodes, D. J. Diemer, E. Gambee, L. Dupler, A. Menard, M. Dupuis, J. • Vocke, E. Bahm, J. O’Brien, L. Schmeider, ;W. Bird, J. Garhartsine.
Second Grammar Sr :—C. Ilgenfritz, T. Heery, M. Carney, C. Parker, T. McKey, G. Hatchett, D. Hogan, J. Nash, A. Beverly, T. Dillon, W. H. Sangster, Jas. McGlynn, B. Vocke, J. Grier, C. Hutchings, D. Coonce. F. Wood, A. Maierhofer, W. Owen, L. Hayes, R. B. Coddington, J. Carroll.
Composition:—T. Dillon, W. K. Roy, L. Hayes, J. Mulhall, F. P. Wood, T. Heery, deserve a special mention. The compositions written by the members of this Class were read by the Director of Studies, who complimented the Class on their great progress in composition writing.
Fourth Grammar Sr. :—J. Campbell, A. Chane, G. Chane, A. Duff, T. Garrity, P. Hibler, L. C. Hurst, J. Lacey, J. McCallister, E. McDonough, J. Rody, J. Smith, T. Harley.
First Orthography Sr. :—A. Chane, G. Chane, J. Grier, L. Gaynor, J. Lacey, J. Rody, B. Vocke, E. McDonough, P. E. Walters, T. Dillon.
First Rhetorical Reading, Jr. :—Louis Hayes, Harold Hayes, C. Burdell, J. Falley, F. Curtis, Frank Spencer, Henry O’Neill, G. Buck, Patrick Tinan, Major C. Harris, Thomas Arrington, GeoCombs, R. Delahay, J. S. Marshall, Miles Wellington, Henry Breckweg.
Elocution:—C. Burdell, Louis Hayes Harold Hayes, Henry O’Neill, Thomas Arrington, Geo. Combs, H. Green, M. C. Harris, G. C. Buck.
Department of Fine Arts.
Figure Drawing:—N. Mitchell, D. Eagan.
Landscape :—J. Broderick.
Academic:—W. B. Small.
Architecture—Theory and Practical:—A. Hem-steger, E. Bahm.
Theory:—N. Mitchell.
Mechanical:—Thomas Dupuis.
Second Grammar Jr:—E. O’Bryan, N. Mitchell, J. McGuire, A. Cabel, J. Page.
Fourth Grammar Jr.:—W. Wilstack, E. Wile, W. Fletcher, W. Rowan, J. Langenderfer, Wm. Dugdale, L. Marshall, J. Hannauer, H. Potter, W. Odendahl.
Geography Jr.:—William B. Clarke, G. McCartney, E. Bryan, J. Thomson, C. Morgan, L. Marshall, R. Delahay.
First Orthography Jr.:—J. McGuire, T. Arrington, H. Hayes, Jos. Miller, R. Delahay, B. Roberts, W. Nelson, G. Combs, J. Page, M. Harris.
Second Orthography Jr.:—J. Orb, A. Wile, G. Hug, H. Hug, W. Odendahl, C. O’Neill, Wm. Fletcher, W. Rowan, J. Langenderfer, L. Billings.
Honorable Mention, Minim Department.
First Class :—G. Jenkins, G. Lyons, Geo. Trussell, F. Obert, J. Welsh.
Second Class:—J. Ford, J. Chandonai, E. Hay-del, H. Jones.
Third Class:—G. Berry, W. Byrne, C. Campeau, W. Emmonds, Geo. J. Gross, J. McCalL
Silver Jubilee.
The twenty-fifth solemn anniversary of the University of Notre Dame is fast drawing towards its celebration. The resident committee of the Associated Alumni of the University of Notre Dame met several times lately, and in virtue of the powers vested in it by the last assembly of the Alumni, in June ’68, drew up a complete programme of the forthcoming celebration. At the last meeting of the committee, 17th inst., it was unanimously resolved, at the request of many friends of the University, that a Memorial should be published on the occasion of the Silver Jubilee. This interesting book, recording the history of Notre Dame, was the object of the committee’s attention at some of the previous meetings, and to discover the practicability of such an undertaking, the matter of the book was divided into four parts and the writing of each part assigned to a member of the faculty. To Rev. N. H. Gillespie, S. S. C., was assigned the history of Notre Dame; to Rev. M. B. Brown, S. S. C., the biography of the Alumni; to Prof. T. E. Howard, A. M., the report of the celebration; to Prof. A. J. Stace, A. M., the history of the Societies, Classes, etc., of the College. The division of the labor rendered the work an easy task, which is now about completed.
THE ‘SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	261
I
Prof. J. A. Lyons was intrusted, some time ago, with the important charge of negotiating with some publishing house, and reported to the committee the result of his inquiries. From these we learn that the publishing house of Meyers & Co., Chicago, III., offers to print, on tinted paper, 1,000 copies of the Memorial (which will include two hundred and fifty pages), deliver these, beautifully bound, with gilt edges, ornamented with fine steel plates and lithographs, at a reasonable cost. At the last meeting of the committee of the resident Alumini, the offer of the publishers was accepted. A circular letter informing the Associated Alumni of the object and cost of the book, was drawn up by Prof. M. T. Corby, in which letter their co-operation towards the success of the enterprise was respectfully requested
The price of each copy of the Memorial will be $2.00, plain edge; $2 50, gilt edge. It is expected that the book will be finished during the first part of the month of July; and, as many copies have been already secured, we advise all persons wishing to have a copy to send their names immediately, as only a limited number will be published. Subscriptions will be received by Prof. J. A. Lyons. Students especially are invited to send their names as soon as possible.
St. Joseph’s Day.
Never in the annals of Notre Dame was the festival of the Patronage of St. Joseph celebrated with as much solemnity and pomp as it was last Sunday. The spectacle was truly grand and soul-entrancing, long to be remembered by those who witnessed it, and, as such, worthy to be immortalized in the immortal pages of The Scholastic Year for 1869. The very nature and object of the festival itself, the splendid exposition of many relics of saints, the beauty of the ceremonies, the pious deportment of a numerous band of youthful altar-boys; the excellence of the music—all contributed to enhance the solemnity of the day and to inspire the devout beholder with the sweetest emotions.
St. Joseph has indeed many claims to our devotion. Besides his glorious titles of foster-father of our Lord and protector of the faithful, he is moreover one of the secondary special patrons of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Notre Dame is situated in the county of St. Joseph, and on the banks of the river St. Joseph.. For all these various and excellent reasons, St. Joseph is honored at Notre Dame with singular devotion—and the
festival of his Patronage is commemorated every year with a degree of splendor inferior only to that we love to display on the feasts of our Divine
• Lord and those of the Blessed Virgin.
Notre Dame is particularly fortunate in possessing the relics of very many saints, all duly authenticated ; and the Festival of St. Joseph was chosen as a fit day to expose them for the first time to the veneration of the faithful. Not less than six hundred relics were exposed, and some of them very remarkable and highly precious. We will name among these a fragment of the very cross on which our Blessed Lord shed His blood and died for the redemption of the world, also a piece of the crib in which His infant body was laid, and a small portion of His swaddling* clothes. We also noticed a piece of our Blessed Lady’s veil, and a part of the cloak of St. Joseph. The entire bodies of two saints—St. Severn and St. Amabilis—were also exhibited. The shrines in which were deposited the sacred remains of these two youthful martyr-saints (one was only eleven and the other thirteen years when they suffered martyrdom) reflected much credit on the sacristans who made and adorned them; Bro. Celestine, in particular, deserves commendation for the beautiful transparencies of varied colors and designs which he made expressly for them.
Of the ceremonies we will simply say that they were performed with that accuracy and recollection which are peculiar to ecclesiastics who are versed in liturgical matters, and who feel the sacredness of the offices they respectively perform.
\ On the other hand, how beautiful and loving was the sight of that score and more of young acolyths, of various sizes and ages, serving about the altar or in the sanctuary,—in rich habiliments so nicely trimmed,—so grave and modest, so well trained? We sincerely wish and hope that these pious and well-behaved altar-boys may cherish more and more the honor which is conferred on them of serving those to whom it is given to offer up the adorable Victim.	•
But what shall we say of the music ? To mention that the mass was Prof. Girac’s best effort,— a real chef-d'oeuvre,—his grand mass in B flat, and that that mass was performed by our glorious Choral Union, is to assert that the music was good, and very good. The first tenor, the first bass, and our great little musician, Master V. Hackmann, were never in better voice: all, indeed, sang excellently well.
Prof. Girac’s mass in B flat has been already

262	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR
more than once ably reviewed and justly extolled We will therefore content ourselves to-day with simply affirming that the more we hear it the more we like it; and this is, as all know, a proof of the excellence of a musical production,—in fact of any composition,—whilst the contrary generally holds good with respect to inferior or worthless lucubrations. To our learned director of the choir, to our classic organist, and to the other members of the Choral Union, we sincerely say: “ Protxde, prospere el regnaP J. C. C.
The Missionary’s Home.
• Of late years Notre Dame has become a place of great interest to strangers, and it may be said that it is the chief attraction for those who visit, or happen to remain a short time at, the city of South Bend, about two miles distant.
Notre Dame itself is fast becoming a town. It has at present all the requisites of such. Its church, which is soon to give place to one more beautiful and substantial; post office; commodious and finely finished exhibition- hall (separate building); steam printing establishment, from which issue two weekly journals; shops of every trade, and its own means of manufacturing nearly all building material,—and lastly, but by no means least, its many fine edifices, among which are conspicuous the College itself, Missionary’s Home, Novitiates and Music Hall; all these conspire to give Notre Dame the appearance of a village of no ordinary size.
As we suppose our readers are already acquainted with all the other buildings, we will endeavor to give a concise description of the Missionary's Home, the latest erected:
The project of its erection has been on hand for a number of years, and within the last couple of years nothing was to be seen of the building save its slumbering foundation.
The authorities of the House, meeting with no success from charitable donations, which were the intended means of its erection, have at last taken the carrying-out of the project in their own hands. The building is now being finished, and will be ready for occupancy within two weeks. Its cost cannot fall short of $20,000. -
Its position is one at the same time pleasant and sufficiently secluded to form a delightful retreat. It is situated on an eminence on the northern shore of the beautiful St. Joseph Lake, directly opposite the college building, from which a gently-curved path winds either way
around the lake to the front entrance of the Missionary’s Home building. This road, in the course of a few years, will be much improved both by nature and art.
The material of the building is brick, and, though not of a very beautiful color, has the appearance of durability. Its exterior has not yet been finished, but will be as soon as the weather will permit. It is not quite full four stories high, is of a rectangular form, with slight rectangular projections at each entrance of a main hall running the entire length of the building. The corridor, or hall, on each succeeding floor, is at right-angle.
We stepped into the building last week to take a more particular notice of its interior. We found the carpenters, painters and plasterers hard at work giving a last touch to the stairways.
The lo w er floor has four large rooms: parlor sitting-room, dining-room, and study-room. * * * On the second floor we found eight small apartments, all of a uniform size, and intended for private use; also a larger one over the front entrance, set apart as the private room of Very Rev. Father General. .
On the third floor are two large dormitories, one each side of a corridor, and then at the extremity of this corridor is a fine room directly over Father General’s. This room is to be used as a chapel until the larger one on the last story shall have been completed. This latter chapel will occupy the entire story,, which here smaller than the rest.
The Holy Sacrifice of the Mass will be offered up daily from this lofty chapel; and the smoke of incense and hymns of praise and thanksgiving will arise, from- the very roof as it were, to the Infinite Being whose blessings are here so apparent.
The woodwork of the interior is of the finest and most delicate workmanship, and yet quite substantial. Taking the building in every respect, it is the most durable, and, as it will be, the most beautifully finished, about Notre Dame— if we except the college building itself. C.
Our Literary Societies were never more prosperous than now, and we take a real pride in stating this fact. We would thank the secretaries of each Society for regular reports of the weekly meetings. Although it may not interest those who are little concerned in literary matters and Society affairs, still it will interest the greater part of our readers, especially the parents, who are by no
I— —	7'-............. ■	——...........................................  -...........................
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	263
means indifferent to anything showing the prog ress of their sons.
It scarcely looks well to send us one report in two months, when we know that regular meetings have been held every week. Was there nothing done worth mentioning at these meetings? What of the debates? of the essays, declamations ? Who were those who took part in them ? We hope that in future the public will be regularly informed, and that a little vitality will be infused into the pens of our kind reporters. -------------------
St. Cecilia Philomathean Association.
The 27th regular meeting to>k place April 13th. Essays Speeches and Declamations were comprised in the programme of the evening, and we can safely say that it was carried out in a spirited manner, to our great delight. Among the members worthy of special notice we may mention the following: Master M. Mahony pleased us in a well-written essay entitled “Composing.” The writer is not generally very composed himself, but if ha only practice what he alvocates on the subject of composition, he will yet become renowned. Mister Aloysius Hetnsteger treated his subject, “ Disobedience,” in a clear though novel, but in a very interesting, manner. Master Hem-steger, judging from the sentiments so well expressed in his es^ay, knows how to obey, and certainly he will know how to com'nind. Master John Nash’s “ Dying Christian” was just what we thought he could present to our mind on that subject. Considering the saying “ That as a man lives, so shall he die,” we have not the least doubt that Master Nash will die a good Christian. Master Charles Hutchings, on “ Thanksgiving,’’ was over-thankful, yet his composition contained some good ideas. As he grows older, thinks more seriously, and reads more, he will write better. Master Vincent Uackmann represents I his branch by singing for the members one of his many very fine songs, for which he was greeted by rounds of applause. Master Philip Cochrane recited in a very pathetic manner, though his memory was not very retentive this time, Hood’s “Song of the Shirt.” Master P. J. O’Connell’s “ Address to the Greeks” was well delivered. Master O'Connell does not possess the Grecian fire, but has any amount of the Celtic ignis, which, if he keep under proper restraint, will aid him a great deal in the oratorical line* After the rem irks of the President relative to the members-leaving nothing undone to prepare their exercises well, the meeting adjourned.	E. Bahm, Cor. Sec.
SAINT
HOARY'S JUaDEMY.
St. Mary’s, April 18, 1869. Arrivals.
April 17th.—Miss J. Arrington, Chicago, Hinois.
Second Musical Reunion.
Opening Chorus—Glover.........Junior	Class
Piano Solo ...............  .Miss	A. Darcy
Cavatina—Wallace..........Miss A. "Carmody
Piano Solo...................Miss	L. Jones
Ballad—Bishop.................. Miss N. Leoni
Piano Solo.................Miss	J. Lonergan
Ballad—Claribel.............Miss N. Simmes
Piano Solo.................Miss	N. Burridge
Ballad—Gumbert..............Miss C. Hoerber
Closing Chorus—Bellini. .1st Div. Singing Class
Table of Honor, Sr,
Misses H. Neil, R. Joslin, M. Cochrane, S. O’Brien, M."and K. O’Toole, S. Boss, M. Clune, M. Minor, M. Rollman, A. Sturgus.
Honorable Mention, Sr. '
Graduating Glass.—Misses L. and L. Tong K. Livingston, A. Ewing, E. Crouch, K. Cunuea.
First Senior Class.—Misses J. Hynds, A. Carmody, A. Cunnea, A. Radin, C. Bertrand, E. Kirwin, L. McManman, E. Ewing, M. Carraher, A. Darcy, M. Alexander, M. Mulhall, M. Walton, F. Grimes, J. Dobson, M. Claffey, C. Davenport.
Second Class.—Misses M. Edwards, K. Medill, R. Rettig, C. Foote, E. Lindsay, A. Bryson, N. Leoni, A. Carpenter, M. King, E. Carr, N. Thomson, S. Lafferty, N. Wilder, L. Chouteau, K. Carpenter, L Vanhorn, B. Gardner, L. Chamberlain, K. Young, E Rogers, E. Livingston, L. Leoni, A. Walker, M. Kirwin, R. Reicher.
Third Class.—Misses Z Selby, M. Tuberty, F. Butters, E. Williams, L. Ramsdell, N. Simms, E. Ruger, J. Hogue, M. Sberland, S. Beebe, R. Joslin, F. Stevens, M. Dillon, H. Gill, L. McKinney, L. Mitchell, M. Murchy, E Henry.
First Prep iratory.—Misses K. Robinson, A. Mast, S. O’Brien, M. Foote, M. Cochrane, E. Darst, J. Lonergan, E. Lonergan, J. Wade, S. Woolman, L. Martin.	’
Second Preparatory.—Misses L. Sprochnle, J. Davis, K. Zell, M. Vanhorn, J. Denny, K. Moore, A. McLeese.
. Third Preparatory.—Misses C. and R. Hoerber, M. Coffey, A. Matthews, J. Davis, F. Whitefield, E. Spillard, F. and R. Fox.
French.
First Class,—Misses L. and L. Tong, K. Livingston, G. Carmody. Second Class.—Misses M. Alexander, A. Walker, K. Carpenter, K. Young, A Mulhall, M. Sherland. Second Div.—Misses K. Robinson, H. Neil, M. Tuberty, M. Toomey. Third Class.—Misses N. and L. Leoni, A. Radin, M. Cochrane. Foitrth Glass.—Miss N. Gross, K. Zell, B. Gardiner, M. Vanhorn.

264	THE SCHOLASTIC TEAR.
German.
First Class.—Misses E. Ruger, M. Alexander, C. Hoerber. Second Class.—Misses L. McMan-man, E. Henry, S. O’Brien.
Music.
First Class.—Miss K. Young. Second Div.— Misses M. Shetland, A. Walker, M. Kirwin. Second Class.—Misses L. and L. Tong, N. Thomson. Second Div.—Misses L. English, E. Plamondon, A. Darcy. Third Class.—Misses L. Chouteau, E. Ruger, E. Ewing. Second Div.—Misses M. Vanhorn, L. McMamnan. Fourth Class.— Misses M. Foote, A. Carmody. Second Div.— MissesE. Darst, L. Boss, E. Rogers. Fifth Class.— Misses L. James, L. Thomson, M. Bader. Second Div.—Misses L. Blasey, M. McNamara, A. Dunlap. Sixth Class.—Misses K. Robinson, M. Dewey. Seventh Class.—Miss M. Rumely. Eighth Class.— Misses J. Burns, R. Leoni. Harp.—Miss C. Davenport. Organ.—Miss N. Burridge. Guitar.— Misses E. Williams, K. Moore, L. English.
Vocal Class.—Misses C. Hoerber, A. and E. Ewing.	'
Table of Honor, Jr.
Misses J. Wilder, M. Letourneau, M. and S. Hoover, L. McFarlane, B. Meyers, B. Frensdorf, L. Thomson, F. Taylor, L. James, B. Wilson, M. Gildersleeve, N. Streiby.
A Sketch of the Sketchers,
In the rear of the steam-house, Seated round on the grass, Holding slates, pencils, and paper, See a juvenile Class
Of incipient Artists, With faces aglow
With artistical fire.
Now, I wish yon to know
That these artistical Juniors Their ideas are stretching,
For they are taking a lesson In practical sketching.	-
Jennie Walton, all eagerness,	.
Makes a bold stroke
With her pencil—
(Now this is no joke)— -	"
And locates the tall smoke-stack Just in the right place,.
While Miss Gross draws the steam-house With wonderful grace.
Lizzie Niel gets the windows A little too high,
For her merry bright eyes Were fixed on the sky;
Misses Meyers and Frensdorf, With close application,
.Place trees, windows, and doors	.
In the right situation; . -Misses Letourneau and Wilder, Leoni, and Burns,
Criticise and assist
Each other by turns;
While the two McNamaras A nd two Misses Price	-
Exclaim with one voice:
“ Doesn’t sketching go nice 1”	.
While gentle-McFarland,
And Thomson so gay, Sketch and laugh at each other
In the merriest way.
Lilie Jones and Miss James
Are puzzled, I see, How to sketch with precision
That tall oaken tree;
Misses Wade, Metzger and Wood
Are intensely excited,
While Misses Taylor and Roberts
Seem highly delighted; The two gentle Hoovers, And quiet Miss Rader,	.
Exclaim with one voice:
*• Why, we never were gladder!” And our practical friends
M. Durant and M. Nash, ' Think their drawings will bring them
A big pile of cash. Rosy-cheeked Robson, And Miss Maggie O'Meara, High premiums and honors
Are determined to-carry.
But Miss Bader is firm,—
You may see by her eye, That she for the prize '
Is determined to try; ' And from her high purpose
No distractions can move her,	,
But she has to compete,’	'
With the two Misses Hoover,	-
Whose diligence, patience,
And devoted attention Entitle them here'	'
To honorable mention.
Now we've given a sketch
Of the Artjstical Class Of juvenile sketchers,
As they sat on the grass;
And no doubt some years hence.
In the annals of fame- -	-
Each one of these sketchers
Will inscribe her own name.
C. B. (Stum-Poit.)
Honorable Mention, Jr.
Second Preparatory Class.—Misses C. Jones, A. Gross, L. Neil, A Woods, R. Leoni. .
Third Preparatory Class.—A. Metzger, A. Robson, M. McNamara, L. McNamara, B. Wade, and A. Garrity. ...
First Class Jr.—Misses M. Roberts, B. Henry, I. Byrne.'.	.	.
Second Class Jr.—Misses N. and C. Henry, E. Randall. .............. ..	_____