N^otre Dame Scholastic.
==_=^4^1^===_
Disce quasi semper victurus; vlve quasi eras moritrirxis.
Volume XV.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, SEPTEMBER 17, 1881.
• Number 2.
On the Sunrise Slope.
BY KATHERINE E. CONWAY. .
You question—“ What is your ‘ sunrise slope ’ ? ”
How better—smile if you will—
Can .1 picture the climb of a deathless hope
Up the eastern side of the hill?
A hope that seeketh the templed height
Which only the constant win;
See, the doors stand wide, and the morning light
Is crossed by the light within.
’ Pis long, I know, since my life’s sunrise, Ard long till its noon—ah me!
For my oft o’er-clouded Eastern skies
And the noon I may not see!
What matter ? if o’er the sunrise slope, _
I come to the Temple grand,
And And It a gate for my deathless hope
To the heavenly Sunrise Land!
Act Well Your Part.
W. II ARNOLD.
“ Honor and shame from no condition rise ;
Act well your part, there all the honor lies.”
To insure success in any undertaking, three things are necessary: You should understand thoroughly what you wish to do; you should know the best way to carry out your object, and then strive, with all your ability, to be successful. No man can do well in life who performs his duty or his pleasure with but half an effort. Half efforts are invariab'y failures. There is no such thing as luck. Fortune, destiny, fate—call it what you will—is for every man what he makes it, and is nothing more nor less than the just fruit of a man’s endeavors. If a duty is carefully and thoroughly performed, success must crown the efforts expended.
“Act well your part! ” is a law imposed upon everyone, and the penalty of disobeying this command is as sure and severe as that of a violation of nature’s laws, while the reward is equally certain, and in direct proportion to the degree of excellence with which the duty is performed. This world is a stage, and life is the play; some of us have important parts, others inferior ones; each has his duty, and the play is a success only when each role is properly sustained. As Ihe grandest drama can be marred by the inferior acting of the poorest character, so is the great drama of life marred by the failure of each actor to “ act well his part”; and as each receives his share of credit in the success of the play, so each will receive his share of
condemnation in the failure. But in life’s drama, there is this difference from the play: we can all be “ stars.” We are not confined to a short list of leading characters; the dramatis persona is as extensive as the great drama of life. Each and all can be stars; and the insignificance of the part we have to play is no bar to our becoming such. We should all do our best to “ act well our parts,” to attain perfection in the station we have to fi l, then we shall be stars. Our mission in life is plainly before us; the best way to perform our duty is equally clear; then nothing remains for us to do but to “ act well our parts,” and success, honor, praise, and happiness, will be the result of our labors; while carelessness, neglect and indifference would bring failure, dishonor, condemnation and misery upon us. Let us strive, then, to “ act well our parts ” in this, the prologue of life, that we may be the better prepared to reap the happy reward when our drama of life is ended; and when the curtain of death falls on the last scene, may we receive the plaudit of the angels, and hear the words “Well done, good and faithful servant: enter thou into the joys of thy Lord.”
“Letus, then, be up and doing With a heart for any fate; Still achieving, still pursuing. Learn to labor and to wait.”
Edmund Spenser.
BY T. F. CLARKE.
“The Augustan Age” is marked by features which give it a peculiar distinction in the history of the literary world. Some of the writers of this period were men of eminence and intellect, who have established an immortal fame on the pages of literary history, and whose names and works will last as long as literature itself.
Literature was not the only branch of learning that made rapid progress during this age: many paths of science and art were discovered and explored, architecture was improved and received many new forms, and more attention was paid to the social improvement and elevation of society. Among the great literary stars of this period none shine forth with more brilliancy than Edmund Spenser. He is as it were a guiding star in poetry. He was born in London in the year 1552 or 1553; of his parentage and childhood but little is known. He appears to have lived in a very-humble and obscure manner during his youth. He received his education at the University of Cambridge. Having received a good education at this University, he devoted himself to literary pursuits, and in these he passed a most unhappy, bnt nevertheless brilliant career. After leaving the University he resided in the northxof England
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
for a number of years; it was during his sojourn here that he composed his first work of any importance, namely “The Shepherd’s Calendar,” the writing of which somewhat composed his mind after the grief and disappointment he had encountered as a lover. He had at one time fallen desperately in love with a young and beautiful lady, who trilled with his affections, and in the end gave her hand to one of his bitterest rivals; for a number of years after this, he never gave a thought to marriage, but in the year 1593, when about forty-three years of age, he married a girl, young and beautiful, but ol lowly birth.
While at Cambridge, the subject of our sketch bad made the acquaintance of Gaitriel Harvey, an acquaintance which afterwards ripened into a lusting friendship. Harvey was a noted man in his day, and was well versed both in learning and literary pursuits; it was at his solicitation that Spenser betook himself from the north of England and removed to London, where, through his friend, he made the acquaintance of Sir Phillip Sidney, a noted writer of romance, and also a poet, a statesman, and a soldier. With all these, he was au accomplished gentleman and man of the world. He is the author of “Arcadia,” ‘ The Defence of Poesy,” and numerous other poems and sonnets. He welcomed Spenser to his home and fireside, and between these two great personages there immediately sprang up a strong and lasting friendship. While at Sidney’s house, Spenser remodelled and revised his “Shepherd’s Calendar,” under the name of “ The Poet’s Year,” which he dedicated to his friend Sidney. .
Spenser always wished to devote his whole time to literary pursuits and make them his only study, and for this purpose he desired to make the acquaintance of some great dersonage who would help him along and encourage him in his undertaking. Sidney, it is true, was a most influential man, and through him Spenser received great encouragement and was enabled to make the acquaintance of many of the nobility and men of rank of that period. The world in our own day would look upon such an ambition as this as debasing, and making one’s self too much of a slave to others. In the United States especially, where there is no aristocracy and where all citizens enjoy equal rights and liberties, it would not be in accordance with the principles of a free man and a free country, but we must remember that before Shakspeare’s time no one was ever known to make a living solely by literary works: if a poor man had a liking for this kind of work, he was either obliged to give up all idea of following it, or place himself under the patronage of some influential person, and it was for this reason that Spenser, who .was possesssd of but limited means, was compelled to seek some one who would encourage him in his work and gain him notoriety and a reputation by which he might become known to the world.
Through Sidney, he was introduced to the nobles and other members of the court of Elizabeth, and afterwards to the queen herself, before whom he exhibited his literary accomplishments, and immediately became the object of her favor. From her he received an appointment to Ireland in 1580. Not long after this, a vast tract of confiscated land, situated near the city of Cork, was presented to him by Elizabeth, and with it the Castle of Kilcolman, a delightful place, surrounded by the most beautiful scenery in Ireland, which he used as his residence. Here, in this beautiful spot, surrounded by all the luxuries of life, he applied himself with diligence and energy to his literary pursuits, and here it was that he composed
his principal works. During the latter part of his residence here he became an object of the most bitter hatred to the Irish peasantry, they having discovered that he was in favor of a plan, and in fact was said to have recommended a plan, for the total extermination of the original possessors of the soil. Living in luxury, and himself a large partaker of British spoil in Ireland, it can hardly be wondered at that the demon ol avarice had, in a incisure, taken possession of the soul of one who shortly before was penniless and friendless. When, therefor'-, his plan became known of securing to the British adventurers the confiscated property of the Irish by the total extermination of the original possessors and their descend ints, the hitter became enraged beyond control and vented their hatred by burning his castle. The qm en again in 1591 showed in what great esteem she held Spens r by decreeing to him an annuity of fifty pound«. Tne monotony of his secluded life was somewhat relieved by occasional visits from the English gentry, and now and then a journey to London. During the rebellion which br-kc out in the southern part of Ireland in the year 1598, all English residents were objects of the most intense hatred, and it need be a matter of no surprise that Spenser was especially disliked. His castle was attacked and burned, and being taken by surprise, he was unable to save any of his goods, or even his infant child, who perished in the flames, before his eyes; overwhelmed by misfortune and grief, he hastened to London, where he died broken-hearted the following year, while yet in the prime of life.
In all his writings Spenser showed great partiality for the style of Chaucer. He was but little known before the publication of his “ Shepherd’s Calendar,” and to this work , does he owe his first fame.
In the description of nature, and in pastoral poetry, Spenser is said to have surpassed all his predecessors and to have marked an epoch in literature. His greatest work, the one by which his fame was firmly established, and which is destined to last as long as literature itself, is “The Faerie Queene,” which was published about the year 1596 This work is still very popular, and may be found in almost every public and private library. In graphic narration and splendid description “ The Faerie Queene” will compare with any poem that was ever written. This great poem appeared in detached portions, and was never completed as the author intended; the original design was to have it divided into twelve books, but only six of the twelve were finished. Tradition asserts that the remaining six books were written, but were lost at sea; this is not'at all probable, however, and the general belief is that they existed only in design. Of the six books that have appeared, each one relates the exploits and achievements of a certain knight who represents some virtue.
Spenser’s genius appears to its best advantage in his ’ unequalled richness of description, which is so perfect that the object is brought vividly before us in such a manner that we almost imagine we are viewing the reality. “ He describes to the eye.” If we read him for pleasure, we m ust not attempt to interpret the allegory. To a reader of lively fancy he is the most charming and pleasing of poets, and with justice has he been called “the Poet’s Poet.” No poetry ever has been, and probably ever will be, more melodious and luxuriant than Spenser’s: his richness of sound and beauty of rhythm is as music to the ear. There was one great fault, however, found with him: he often became tedious, and entered too much into details in his description. The following is found in Macaulay’s criti
!
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	19
cisni ou his works: “Oue unpardonable fault, the fault of tediousness, pervades the whole of the ‘ Faerie Queene.’ He became sick of cardinal virtues and deadly sins, and longed for the society of plain m<n and women. Of the persons who read the first canto, not one in ten reaches the end of the first bo'«k, and not one in a hundred perseveres to the end of the poem.’’ The sim-za he used was the Spenserian, properly s- -called. Besides his “Faerie Queene,” he wrote many minor poems, in all of wltich may be traced the superior genius of the author and his rich and melodious style.
Tho Art of Writing Well.
From an Address of Buffon Before the French Academy.
[Translated for the “ Notre Dame Scholastic.”]
To write well, one must be complete mister of his sub-j ci, he must rcll ct on it so as to see clearly the order of his thoughts, and form them into a reguar chiin, <ach link of which repr s mts an idea; and when one ha taken up his pen he miBt guide it successively over the first mirk, uot letting it waver.to either side, not bearing heavily and lightly on it, but uniformly; not giving it any other m ivement but such as shall be determined by the am >unt of spice that it is to occupy. lu this consists the seventy of s'yle, and this isalsi what will give it unity and will regulate its rapidity, and this by itself will suffice to render it precise and simple, smooth and clear, lively and connected. To this first rule, which is dictated by genius, if we add delic.cy in our expressions, scrupulous exactness in the choice of words, care to name things only by the most general terms, the style will be noble. If in addition we are diffllent in regard to our first,—feel contempt for whatever is only brilliant, and steady aversion to punning and joking, our style will be serious, and even majestic Finally, if we write as we think, if we are ourselves convinced of what we wish to persuade others this good faith with ourselves, which, exercised towards others would be called propriety and tiuth of style, will cause it to produce its full effect.	.
Well-written works are the only works that will go down to posterity. A large amount of information, the singularity of the facts, even the novelty of the discoveries, arc not sure guarantees of imm >rtality. If the works containing them only turn on tiifl.es, are written without taste, without elevation and without genius, they will perish with the information they contain; because this information, these facts and discoveries, are easily appropriated by others, and will even gain by being taken iu hand by a more skillful writer. Those things are outside of the man, whereas style is of the man himself: this style therefore cannot be appropriate, nor transferred, nor changed; it is lofty, noble, sublime; the author will be admired in all times, for it is only truth that is durable and eternal. Now, style is beautiful only by the number of beautiful ideas that it presents. All the intellectual beauties found therein, all the relations of which it is composed, are so many useful truths, perhaps even more precious for the human mind than those that are the very subjects of the discourse. ______________ _ ____________
____«» [y you could throw as an alms to those who would use it well the time that you fritter away, how many qeggars would become rich! ”
.	Art, Music and Literature.
—A general Index has just been issued in Rome of the Acta Stmcta Bedis, published during the last ten years.
—A Nevada critic, speaking of a harpist, said: “We never before knew there was so much music in a gridiron.”
—An exchange says: “Miss Emma Juch is probably the first American prima donna "who never went to Europe to complete her studies ” Miss Clara Louise Kellogg obtained all of her instruction in the United States.—Musical Record.
—Mr. Bennett, it is said, is going to import Mr. Frank Lawley, a L mdon journalist, to take Mr. Connery’s place as managing editor of the New York Herald. Why not publish the paper altogether in the British metropolis?— CalJulic Review.
—The success of “The History of Our Own Time*]” (which has reached a sale of 40,000 copies) has encouraged Mr. Justin McCarthy, the popular novelist, historian, journalist, and member of Parliament, to engage himself upon a new work to be entitled “The Reigns of the Four Georges.”
—That most excellent Catholic magazine The Ave Maria issued from Notre Dame, is now published in monthly parts where subscribers prefer it to the weekly. Under the iffleient editorship of Rev. D. E. Hudson, the Ave Maria has reached a circulation of nearly 15,000 copies.—South-Bend Tribune.
—The accomplished editorof the Cincinnati Catholic Telegraph says: “ We notice in Theodore Tilton’s poem, ‘The Phantom Ox,’ contributed to the GornhiH Magazine, a strange resemblance to Goethe’s Erlkanig; the last verse but two savors strongly of a passage in De La Motte Fouqe’s SinsramT
—The pyramid of Pueblo, in Mexico, is larger than the great pyramid of Cheops, iu Egypt. The latter covers only fourteen acres, while the Mexican one covers forty acres of ground, and was originally GOO feet high. It is unde of sun-dried brick, and is supposed to have been built 7,000 years ago.	-
—Prof. Von Werner’s huge painting of the Berlin Congress, which is now being exhibited in its ultimate repository, the banqueting-hall of the rath-haus in Berlin, will soon be taken to London for public inspection there, and afterwards most probably to Paris and Vienna. The painter was to receive for his work from the Berlin Municipality 20 000 thalers, or abjut £3,000 .with the right of exhibiting it for one year.
—Mr. Carl Schurz is said to be about to publish a novel after the style of Lord Beaconsfield’s “ Endymion ”—of course, a great deal better. It is rumored that various other distinguished Americans are also about to publish books at greater or less distances after the style of “ Endymion.” This is rather a distressing result of Beaconsfield’s work. Still, it might have been expected; for nothing looks so easy as an imitation of an original success, and few things are as hard.
—American College Directory and Universal Catalogue. Published by C. H. Evans & Co., St. Louis. This directory contains the names of nearly thirty-flve hundred colleges, academies, convents, and asylums, in the United States. The compilation is wonderfully complete and accurate. We were astonished to see that the large propor-
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tion of those schools and colleges were under Catholic management, while the list of asylums and charitable institutions is more monotonously Catholic-
—The “Associated Press” is simply a partnership of seven New York daily papers. It has been in operation for thirty years in its present form, but long before the Morse telegraph was a practical success four metropolitan journals co-operated in the collection and distribution of marine intelligence. The Association now belongs to the Herald, Tribune, Journal of Commerce, World, Times, Sun, and Evening Express. Its general manager is James W. Simonton, a practical journalist; one who has been reporter, correspondent, editor, publisher and owner of newspapers. The agents of the Associated Press are everywhere. Its London offices never close, and its cable tolls are enormous.—Paper World.
—The Figaro says Mrs. Haweis has invented a quite too utter style of writing, in The Queen. Describing Sir F. Leighton’s house at Kensington, she declares that the main staircase “winds like a treble passage out of bass chords.” But strange to say, she does not continue these musical similes, as she surely might have done. What could have been prettier, for instance, than to allude to the front door-mat as “an overture to a delightful domestic symphony; ” the linoleum in the corridor as “ a chromatic fugue dominating a contrapuntal passage,” and even the. act of walking up the staircase aforesaid, as “ a pedal performance of marked regularity and ‘ organic ’ power, with, an ‘ all-toe ’ accompaniment ? ” “ Culinary airs, with variations,” might have been wafted from the kitchen; the very beds might have suggested a new arrangement of “Rousseau’s Dream;” whilst the annual spring clean itself might have been daintily alluded to as a “ Hunting Allegro, in the key of B flat! ” Well, yes, a little more flat, than sharp.
—It is a characteristic of people with moral missions that their nicety and fastidiousness principally concern themselves. > The respectable Miss Abbott is no exception to this rule. Too sweetly virtuous to play the penitent and dying Violetta, she was not above paying Mrs. Seguin so much a week to preach such moral lessons as may be conveyed in an impersonation of the ruthless and miscellaneous Cannen. Worse still, the respectable Miss Abbott actually made money by compelling her sister artiste to im personate the very wicked and altogether impenitent heroine of Bizet’s opera. A still graver inconsistency is suggested by the fact that the moral prima donna has added “ Olivette ” to the repertoire of the company. It is true' that she will not attempt the part herself, but it is also true’ that the lessons of virtue and respectability, as well as the chastening impulses suggested by the costumes of the third act, are not quite so obvious as the fact that Miss Abbott is, from an advertising point of view, a clever and economical Pecksniff in petticoats.—The Hour.
—There has been considerable gossip about changes in: the inner circles of journalism lately, but as usual the gossip was largely baseless. The chief change suggested was the permanent retirement of Whitelaw Reid from the Tribune office. Poor Tribune! The management of that odd: contribution to contemporaneous literature has ever been fertile in trouble. When Charles A. Dana was there, his friends thought he was too big for the place, and there were never-ending jealousies and bickerings. He was finally allowed to depart, and an inoffensive little party from the' Evening Post, Sidney Howard Gay, succeeded him. Little ’
Gay was as much too small as Mr. Dana had been too big. He was a dapper man, of small stature, small nature, and small circumference. He didn’t last long. John Russell Young, formerly of Philadelphia, then took hold. At that time there were several bright and ambitious fellows ou the staff, among them Whitelaw Reid, a Washington correspondent, from Ohio. The Washington girls used to joke about Reid and John Hay and make little bets among themselves as to which of the two would first find the rich girl he sought and bear away his bride. John Hay, who suddenly found himself famous by reason of his “ Little Breeches” poem; George W. Smalley, a priggish, pragmatical, boresome sort of a chap, who bore some kind of relation to Wendell Phillips, and traded on it; W H. II. Hassard, a fair musical critic, and Ames J. Cummings, the best and most practical newsman I ever met. Mr. Young had many traits and attainments likely to insure him success, but the fates otherwise determined, and be left the Tribune to establish the Standard, and subsequently went abroad for the Herald. Whitelaw R;id succeeded Young, and shortly thereafter the pflitical campaign ran Greeley’s oddity into insanity and final death. By a kind of hocuspocus Reid then obtained possession o*‘ the control of the paper and merged the names of edit >r and managing editor. He appeased Smalley by letting him have charge of the Landon “ bureau,” though why “bureau” I never could understand. He made Hassard practical managing editor, but denied him the name. He paid Hay well for wretchedwork, and subsequently foisted him on to Hayes, and from that time until the present has enjoyed the proud pre-eminence of conducting the journal which Horace Greeley founded, and unkind fate seemed determined to founder. John Hay long since found his “richgirl” and married her, and now Reid has followed suit. The lady he is about to marry is a daughter of D. 0. Mills, formerly of Sacramento. Mr. Mills is as bald as an egg, but his head is well stored inside, and he left California in the nick of time. He used to do banking in S icra-mento and always enjoyed a deservedly high reputation for probity and caution. Mr. R ud started poor, but during his connection with the Tribune has accumulated riches, a pleasant feature not shared by the stock holders of the paper. There was a rumor that Mr. Gjuld intended paying dividends this spring, but the “ dividend is passed,” as it has been ever since poor Greeley’s death. The gossip in relation to Reid’s retirement grew out of the approaching marriage and the necessity of subsequent rest The happy pair will spend the summer abroad, and Johnny Hay will nominally edit the paper during R id’s travels. The home staff will remain as now organiz'd and Hay’s duties will be very light. The intimate connection of the Tribune with Mr. G mid tends to injure its reputation as a newspaper.—N. Y. Cor. Phil. Times.
Scientific Notes.
—Iron-shod horses get an electric shock in touching the rails of Siemen’s new electric railroad in Berlin.
—Hydrogen gas, when pure, is between fourteen and fifteen times lighter than atmospheric air. Ordinary coal gas is only about two and a half times lighter than the air we breathe.
—White gutta percha is obtained by precipitating a solution of ordinary gutta percha in chloroform by alcohol
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	21
it in water, and molding into the desired form while still hot.
—Dr. W. C. Farlow, of Cambridge; Prof. D. C. Eaton, of Yale; and Dr. C. L. Anderson, of.California, are jointly publishing a work on the Algae of North America, con-, sisting of the plants themselves, properly put up and labelled.	'
—The Exposition for inventions and applications of electricity to be held in Paris is to have exhibits from Germany, England, Belgium, Italy, Spain, Switzerland, the United States, and perhaps other nations. The Germans expect to make a sensation with locomotives propelled by electricity.
—It is asserted that if a person exposes himself to the electric; light for some time, in a close inspection of the same, his hands, and cheeks will show—if he be of a fair complexion—all the symptoms of sunburn, even in midwinter, and he will develop freckles on his countenance as quickly as when he goes about unprotected by a sun-, umbrella in midsummer.
—It has been known for some years that a coating of magnetic oxide of iron, produced upon a surface of metal ic iron, will protect the iron from all atmospheric influence. Moisture will not act Upon it at all, and nothing short of red heat will affect the coating. Two or three years ago Professor Barff succeeded in producing such a coating upon iron by means of super-heated steam.
—The lake that has the highest elevation of any in the world is Green Lake in Colorado. Ils surface is 10,252 feet above the level of the sea. Pine forests surround it, and eternal snows deck the neighboring mountain tops. One of these, Gray’s Peak, has an altitude of 14,341 feet. The water of Green Lake is as clear as crystal, and large rock masses and a petrified forest are distinctly visible at the bottom. The branches of the trees are of dazzling white ness, as though cut in marble.—Illustrated Catholic American.	'
—M. Alfred Dumcsnil, a son-in-law of Jules Michelet, claims to have made an interesting and useful discovery, the preserving of plants in a perfectly vigorous state without any earth. With the shelter of a glass, hellebore taken up at the end of November and the middle of December has remained from two and a half to three months in blossom. Other plants, primroses, daisies, violets, auriculas, etc., have not only been in bloom for three months, but have thrown out new buds. Bulbous roots, small shrubs, exotic plants such as azaleas and cyclamens take equally well to the process. M. Dumcsnil exhibited some specimens of plants blooming without earth, in Rouen, last December; and at his home, about 14 miles from that city, any one may see the results he has obtained.
—An English writer says: We may form some conception of the enormous energy of the human heart when we n fleet that a good climber can ascend only 9,000 feet, in nine houis, that is, can raise his own weight only 1,000' feet in an hour, that is, of course, continuously for any length of time, while the work done by the heart is equivalent to raising its own weight (ten ounces) 13,860 feet, high. And we may put this even more strikingly by pointing out that the most powerful engine ever made by man, the * Bavaria ’ locomotive of the Vienna and Trieste Railway, can only raise itself through 2,700 feet in an hour; that is, its energy is less than one-fifth of that of
the human heart Of course, the actual amount of work done by both engine and climber is much greater than that done by the heart; but, relative to weight, the energy of the heart far exceeds that of the other two.
—Mark Twain is reported as saying concerning the comet: “You see, they are all wrong about the tail. I’ve ciphered on that tail until I understand every inch of it It’s absurd to suppose that the tail isn’t solid, and pretty tough, too. Do you imagine that this comet could go bulging through space at the rate of two hundred miles a minute without knocking the spots out of a tail that was vapor. Tie a fog bank on to the rear end of the New York and Boston 4 o’clock express, start her off at even . forty miles an hour, and see how long your fog bank will travel in company with your locomotive. Yet they ask us to swallow this infernal nonsense about the comet’s tail. My observations of this fellow, and also of Coggia’s comet, seven years ago, have convinced me that comets’ tails arc fastened on tight, and are of a fibrous and durable nature, like Hartford beefstake.”
—One of the confessed evils of improper arrangements for ventilation is the danger of catching cold. We are told that pur room is close and illy ventilated; up goes a window, in comes a draft, and we catch cold. We are told that we should not allow such a draft through our apartment; down goes the window, and we are stifled. Dame Naturelike a kind parent applies the rattan to her refractory children. He who sets his foot in a trap must not complain if the trap spring and catch his foot. Put a.bird into a room where there is a closed window and it will fly a hundred times against the glass, unable to learn that it can not go through where it can see through. Just so it is with human beings about taking cold. They will catch cold a hundred times, and then go for the one hundred and first time and do the same thing. They can not learn to await danger if they do not see it stare them bluntly in the face.’ Human beings will, of course, reason ; but reasoning is a habit, and they never form the habit of using reason to prevent colds. It is the simplest thing in the world; just as simple as taking a drink of water. It is simply the ait of preserving. Preserve an even temperature. He who -does this will never suffer from the dangerous and often fatal effects of colds.
—Some people have asked: “ What good can result from finding the North pole ? ” The late Professor Henry is on record as saying the magnetism of the earth requires more observations in this direction than have been made; that we cannot complete our knowledge of the tides of the ocean or of the winds of the globe without finding the pole; besides that, the whole field of natural history will be enriched by it, especially botany, geoh gy and mineralogy. The facts about the effect of extreme cold on animal and vegetable life cannot but be interesting. As Professor Henry said, it will lead not only to enlarge the sphere of mental pleasure of man, but will promote the application of science to the arts of life. Professor M. F. Maury puts it in thia way: “ Within this polar area the tides have their cradle, and whales their nursery. There the winds complete circuit, and the currents of the sea their sound, in the wonderful system of oceanic circulation; there the aurora is lighted up and the trembling needle brought to rest; and there, too, in the maz. s of that mystic circle, terrestrial forces of occult power, and of vast influence upon the wellbeing of man, are continually at work. It is a circle of mysteries, and the desire to enter it, to explore the untrod
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
den wastes and secret chambers, and to study its physical aspects, has grown to a longing.” There is an unknown area of 1,131,000 square miles of the surface of the globe that is now a blank. We cannot tell whether this area is land or water. This question, among others, these explorations will determine.
—America is ahead of Europe in the art of celestial photography. Englishmen of science, who, like all Englishmen, have a keen eye for the detection of special excellence in the work of their own countrymen, admit this. They say that the photographs of the moon taken by Mr. Lewis M. Rutherfurd, of New York, are better than those taken by their own Delarue, who is so conspicuous an astronomer that one of the oceans of the planet Mars has been named after him. Mr. Rutherfurd’s lunar photographs are so fine that they can be sufficiently magnified to furnish a better view of the moon’s rocky scenery than many amateur astronomers can obtain with the full power of their telescopes. Moon photographs are taken by the aid of telescopes, the prepared plate being fixed at the focus of the instrument in the place of the eye-piece. They are obtained only one or two inches in diameter, and have to be enlarged. Fine ones will bear being enlarged to a diameter of two or three feet Mr. Rutherfurd uses a refracting telescope to photograph the moon, the object-glass being peculiarly corrected so that it focuses the actinic rays. Most other astronomical photographers use reflecting telescopes, in which a concave mirror takes the place of an object glass. Everybody knows that a stereoscopic picture of a person or a waterfall is got by combining two pictures of the object taken from different standpoints, so that each shows a little around the corner, and the two being combined make the object appear to stand out in life-like perspective. To produce the same effect with the moon, advantage is taken of the fact that she vibrates, or rolls a little upon her centre, in swinging about the earth, so that at one time we see a little more of one side than usual, and at another time of the other side. When two photographs of the moon taken at opposite vibrations are combined by the stereoscope, the lunar orb seems suspended before the eyes like a ball that the hand can grasp. The moon is not the only celestial object whose picture can be taken. Photographs are also made of the sun, showing the spots and the phenomena of eclipses. Venus and Mercury have been photographed when ih transit across the sun’s disk. Even stars can be photographed; and recently Prof. Draper succeeded in photographing the Great Febula of Orion, which some astronomers believe to be an enormous mass of gaseous matter containing in itself the germs of the future world and sun.
-	Exchanges.
—The Commencement number ol The C. G. N. Y. Argus' has just come to hand. “ Biographies of ’81 ” is a com-mcndable feature.
—Church's Musical Visitor for September has the usual amount of interesting matter on music and musi-'cians. There are fourteen pages, quarto, of reading-matter and eight pages of excellent music in each number of the Visitor. The music alone is worth the price of subscription, $1.50 a year. Published monthly by John Church & Co., Cincinnati, Ohio.
—We regret the painful duty of having to take to task
the editor of the Phonographic Department of The Printer's Miscellany (St. John, N. B.) for a serious misquotation from the Scholastic in the June number of his magazine. He makes it appear that the Scholastic applied an opprobiius epithet to Mr. D. L. Scott-Browne, of New York, that never appeared in its columns, and which would not be used by it under any circumstances. We hope that in future the editor of the Miscellany will quote the Scholastic aright or not quote from it at all.
—The Musical Record, of Boston, has been a regular visitor to the Scholastic’s depopulated sanctum, and is regarded with great favor by those among us who are musically inclined, and they are many. It is no extraordinary occurrence here to find a person capable of playing three or four instruments, and although amid the press of other duties music is not frequently pushed to the highest stage of excellence musical taste is not wanting. The musical gossip of the Record is carefully edited; the music seems to be'carefully selected and of superior merit, as might be expected from the well-known publishers, Oliver Ditson & Co., of Boston.
—The American Art Journal for Sept. 3d publishes among other instructive articles, one on “ The Half Truths of Vocal Culture,” by Prof. Frederick W. Root, of Chicago. “ Tile Countess Merlin’s Recollections of Malibran ” gives some interesting anecdotes of the great vocalist. The serial article on “ Richard Wagner and Johanna Her-beck draws to a close in this number. “ Points on PianoTuning by an Expert (F. L. Becter) are worthy of special attention. Mr. Wm. M. Thoms, the editor, keeps his readers well posted on art gossip and keeps his magazine up to a high standard. To come down to trifles, a change of cut on the cover would not detract from the appearance of the magazine.	'
—Donahoe's Magazine for September opens with an excellent portrait and sketch of Miss Rosa Mulholland, one of the best-gifted of Ireland’s many gifted children. Miss A Mulholland was at an early age a contributor to The Cornhill Magazine when Thackeray was its editor, but her chief contributions to periodical literature have appeared in All the Year Round, The Irish Monthly, Good Words, and Mr. Edmund Yates’s new magazine, Time. An excellent serial story from her pen was lately introduced to American readers in The Illustrated Catholic American. Miss Mulholland is a daughter of the late Joseph S. Mulholland, of Belfast, Ireland, and was born in that city. “Catering for the highest class of English magazine readers,” says the brief sketch in Donahoe's, “ Rosa Mulholland has never disguised the feelings oi her Irish and Catholic heart.” Donahoe's Magazine is replete with excellent reading-matter, and the sketches of “ The Irish Bar” are particularly interesting, being interspersed with anecdotes racy of the great men that have adorned Ireland’s racy soil. Published by Patrick Donahoe, Boston, Mass. $2 a year.
—The Catholic World for September concludes the 33d volume of that excellent magazine, and the publishers promise for the initial numbers of the forthcoming volume, that, in addition to the writers who have already made this the first and best of American magazines, a number of new writers will be introduced to its readers. The chief serial stoiy that has been running through the later numbers of The Catholic World has drawn to a close, and two new serials will be begun In the October number, the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
first of the new volume. The following is the table of contents of the number before us: I, Through Ritualism to Rome; II,One Hundred Years Ago, by Wm. Dennehy; III, A Song without Words, by Sara T. Smith; IV, Chambers of the Sainis, II, by M. P. Thompson; V, Christian Jerusalem, Part III, by the Rev. A. T. Hewit; VI, St. Pius V, by Rev. Jas. J. Dougherty; VII, A Woman of Culture (Concluded), by John Talbot Smith; VIII, Lepanto, by Matthew Daly; IX, Latin and French Plays at the College of Louis-le-Grand, by the late Lady Blanche Murphy; X, The Opium Hibit, by D. W. Nolan, M. D.; XI, Ireland and the Irish, by Rev. Jas. P. Ryan; XII, New Publications. Published by the Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay St., New York; $4 a year.
—The editors of The King's College Record and the K. M. I. News have set the hot weather at defiance and continued to issue their respective papers regularly during the vacation. The heavens may be as of brass, and the comets—one, two, three!—whew! may shake fire out of their thirty-thousand-mile tails, but our Nova-Scotia and Kentucky friends hold a firm grip of their quills and defy the heat. We admire their pluck, and especially that of the Kentuckian, but are not at all inclined to follow their example or propose it for imitation by others. We believe in keeping cool, and if we can’t be cool, to be as cool, at least, as circumstances will permit. We have glanced over the article of "College Secret Fraternities” in the ‘ Kentucky Military Institute News, and our opinion is that it is a very* weak “ apology ’’ for the existence of any such societies. Colleges, and especially small colleges, may well seek to frame an “ apology ” for the existence of secret societies within their walls. We would not attend a small college in which secret societies were tolerated. In larger colleges, like the University of Michigan, the evil would not be so great, because an honorable, high-principled young gentleman who did ndt wish to join a secret society or half-a dozen secret societies, could find meet companionship amongst those who, like himself, disliked the principle of exclusive clanship bound by an oath. We fail to see any benefit accruing from secret fraternities that cannot as well be had in open societies. These may be as exclusively exclusive as the most fastidious may wish, and thus secure all the advantages of secret fraternilies, without that servile tie that binds the freeman and makes of him a slave. The bond of nature’s nobleman is his word, and he who would exact of him an oath in ordinary social intercourse is unworthy of his friendship.
—We find the following “lying over’’from a former number of the Scholastic : The editors of The University Magazine (University of Pennsylvania) have delivered their valedictory for 18S0. The University Magazine is one of the handsomest and best edited of our college periodicals. There is no need of further notice at our hands, as we believe we spoke of it when the famous “ Hunt for a Provost” was running as a serial through its columns. (It happened, singularly enough, that the University of Pennsylvania was without a Provost at the time.) We are glad to learn that the editors of the Magazine are pleased with the Scholastic, even though our portion of praise is presented with a grain of salt. Here is what they say,—judge for yourselves whether it is deserved or nol:
“ No paper we receive pleases us better than the Notre Dame Scholastic. Its literary department is filled with strong, sensi- ’
ble articles. Taking the paper as a whole, the tone is manly, but decidedly sectarian, and given to controversy on ecclesiastical questions. The exchange column, in particular, is full of such discussions. The issue for May 13th contains a long defence of the Catholic Church against some charges made by the Courier of a month or so ago. The article is quite long (seven columns), and shows wide reading and thorough acquaintance with Church history. The arguments are well presented, and are supported by numerous quotations. The editorial department is the weakest part of the paper, although in itself good. The article on ‘Forgotten Poets’ is well written, but we think the fundamental idea of the author is wrong. He quotes many names of forgotten poets (in which class we would not place N. P. Willis), and deplores the modern ‘ drivel of poetic aspirants, whose elegance of style in writing is vastly below their ambition.’ ‘ Up to the usual standard ’ is an expression that has grown to mean very little, and we cannot help thinking that it would be wiser and more profitable to present for the edification and entertainment of the people, some of the excellent songs of our forgotten poets.’ We do not agree with him in lamenting the forgetfulness of the world in regard to these names. They once were known, and received, very likely, all the praise they deserved. Now the modem ‘drivel’ takes their place, just as they took the place of ‘ Daphnia’ and 'Amantis-’ of a half century before. E C Pinkney, and the others he mentions, were very good poets in their time. They filled up gracefully a column in the magaz ne for the month. Time and taste have changed, and the public demand another kind of poetry. The time may come when Tuckerman’s smooth verses, and Mrs. Sigourney’s ‘obituaries’ will be in fashion again. The mention of John Quincy Adams and Bancroft, the historian, in connection with Longfellow and Whittier, reminds us of what Macaulay said of Charles Montague: ‘Of him, as of several of his contemporaries, it may be said that his fame has suffered from the folly of those editors who, down to our time, have persisted in reprinting his rhymes among the works of the British poets.’ ”
—Mr. J. D. Hibbeler, a well-known and highly-esteeme I merchant of Washington, Mo., was among the many visitors to the University and St. M iry’s Academy the past week. Mr. Hibbeler was agreeably surprised at the beauty of the interior of the Church of Our Lidy of the Sacred Heart here, and said that throughout his travels in Europe he had witnessed nothing to equal it. When informed that the plan of the interior was designed by Brother Charles, of the Order of the Holy Cross, and that the work was executed under his personal direction by Bro. Alfred and others, and that of all the decorations of the Church the stained-glass windows and the statuary only had been imported—the Slations of the Cross and the mural frescoes being from the hand of Professor Oregon, of the College Faculty, and all executed at Notre Damp, his admiration was unbounded. The painting of - the frames of the Stations is the work of Bro. Frederick, of the Order of the Holy Cross, who has abo lately beautified the interior of the Portiuncula Chapel. The vaulted roof and arches of the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart are after the plan of the Sainte Chapelle, at Puris, and reflect much credit upon Bro. Charles. Bro. Albert and Mr. Smith are young artists of great promise, and various halls and nooks are being beautified by work from their pencils or easels. Altogether, Notre Dame has not a little ex cellent home talent of an artistic nature, and may well feel proud of the proficiency attained under more than ordinary difficulties. We hope that painting, music and architecture will receive an additional stimulus at Notre Dame from the encouraging results already obtained.
24
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Janu
Notre Dame, September 17, 1881
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fifteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, Including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, 81.50 per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—Another scholastic term has begun, and of course the Scholastic must endeavor to keep pace with it. Nolens miens, we must be up and doing. It is hard to get started, but we hope when once in motion things will keep moving right on. We hope everybody will do what he can for the Scholastic, and send us such items of interest as may come in his way,—be it little or be it much, a local, personal or any other item will always be acceptable—almost anything will do except second-handed newspaper jokes, and we hope nobody will take advantage of our simplicity by sending them to us.
—The German news contributor of the Buffalo Catholic Union says:
We would be better pleased with the N. Y. Kath. Volksbl. if it refrained from imitating some of its English confreres in giving long advertisements of Catholic colleges In the shape of extravagant editorials. German papers, heretofore, had better taste. Or does the Volksblatt think that its readers do not know by what sort of manipulations such “ literary productions” are brought forward 'i
We don’t know what might be the extent of the “ extravagance ” for which our esteemed German contemporary is blamed, but we do know that if Catholic editors were better disposed they could do a little more for the cause of education than has been their wont, and that, too, without danger of being considered extravagant.
—Another collegiate term has begun, and good resolutions are now in order and have no doubt been made by many. The Freshmen of last year are now full-fledged Sophs, and the places they have vacated are filled by new aspirants for college honors. New students have come in such number that the furniture of last year is inadequate to supply demands, and new supplies have been ordered. There is a boom in college, and we are glad of it “ Come one, come all ” ; the more the merrier. Mc-
Gorrisk, the “Marshal,” Willie Arnold and Frank T. Clarke are here, so the old Scholastic Staff is not badly represented. “Marshal” O’Neill says his connection with the Scholastic corps during the past year made him many warm friends in the many places visited by him during vacation, and he does not at all regret his connection with the paper. And he is not alone in that respect. We hope those who have gone out from us will not forget the Scholastic.amid the busy din of the outer world, but will send us subscriptions, and an occasional article, and lots of personals.
—The first session of the scholastic year 1881-2 was formally opened on Thursday morning, September the Sth. At eight o’clock the big bell and its accompanying peal of smaller bells summoned students and Faculty to the Church, where the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass was offered to secure a blessing upon the labors of the year. Rev. Father Walsh was the celebrant, with Rev. Fathers Toohey and Stoffel as deacon and subdeacon. President Walsh delivered an eloquent and impressive discourse on the necessity of a thorough education—an education in which the training of the mind and the heart would go hand in hand. This twofold education of youth was the special object aimed at in the University; the large body of students now before him came for the purpose of availing themselves of this double education, and if they failed to correspond with the efforts made in their behalf they would suffer a loss which time might not be able to repair. He hoped that throughout the scholastic year, so auspiciously begun, the students would one and all generously co operate in the efforts made for their welfare; that the foundations of that intellectual and moral structure which they were about to erect would be laid deep and strong, and stand them in good stead amid the storms of life. The disciplinary code to which they would be subjected—mild and parental, but firm—would play an important part in their moral and intellectual training, and he insisted particularly on the idea that their submission to the college rules should be grounded not on fear but on principle. Numerous examples were cited of men who, owing to solid or defective training in youth, made their mark for good or for evil, and of others whose early cultivation was all that could be expected, but who injafter-years, influenced by bad example, crushed the buds of promise and allowed the fertile soil to be overrun with briars and thistles. Hence the necessity of a high and firm purpose on the part of students to live up to the moral principles which they received at college, where evil influences were excluded as much as possible. Here, apart from the dissipation and excitement of the busy world, they could, if they would, lay a solid foundation of learning and virtue, and he hoped they would avail themselves of the many advantages that would be held out to them. With all these advantages, however, a great deal depended on themselves; each individual must give his willing assistance; without their individual co-operation little could be done, and he hoped that no one among them would frustrate measures wisely planned for the good of all, individually and collectively. An allusion was made to the Festival of the Nativity, celebrated that day, and the great assistance which students might expect from the all-powerful patronage of the Blessed Virgin.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
25
The New Scholastic Year.
As a student, and a small factor in the workings of the University, we deem it fitting that we should pass a few remarks upon the opening of the new year, and drop a word of advice and encouragement to old friends and new.
We are now in the midst of our second week’s labor, with everything working as harmoniously and pleasantly as could be desired. The attendance promises to be much larger than that of the past year. Many have trod the pleasant campus, or strolled by the lake, for several years, and many also now begin the earnest work of college life. To the former, we can say but little which they do not already know about the duties of college life and the results to be achieved; to the latter, we would simply say that a firm determination to show a bright record in the contest of the coming year, a strict adherence to that determination, and a strict attention to duty, are the surest means by which to accomplish the end for which they have entered on the life of a student.
We are not generally apt, at first glance, to adopt the views of those in authority with regard to many things, but the close of the year very often reminds soma of us that, after all, there are wiser heads in the world than those on the shoulders of even the best of college editors. As it is in college, so is it in .the world: if we strive earnestly and honestly to accomplish the object for which we entered the University; if we endeavor by strict attention to duty and a rigid adherence to the principles of true m tnliness to advance in the path which we have marked out for ourselves in life, and to which a kind father or a loving mother looks forward with such a longing expectancy, we surely cannot and will not miss the goal. For one who enters with this spirit, and perseveres in it, failure is an impossibility. To be sure, it requires an effort and a constant watch and guard on our part to form such a determination, and to cling to it; but we have only to look around us to see men of all grades in society, and professions in life, whose sole success depended in the beginning, and depends to-day, on this principle alone. Depart from it now, and all will be a failure.
Experience in the life of many a bright young star will show that to a neglect to adhere to this principle could they attribute the failure of a whole lifetime; depart from it hereafter, and still further experience in the lives of many far advanced on the high road to honor and wealth will prove, as it daily does, that to the relaxation of this one principle do they owe the loss of everything most dear in life. The loving hearts of fond parents are made sad, pleasant homes and cheerful firesides are wrecked, and life becomes all aimless aud a blank to him who, once hav-ing,entered on this path, is rash enough to forsake it even for an instant.
We are the sentries on the outposts of the coming generation, and we have an earnest duty to perform. If we pet form it faithfully, a rich reward awaits us in the consciousness of having done our duty well, and in the love an<l confidence of the dear ones at home and of the world at large; if we shrink from it, or turn aside, then for us there is no reward, but the consequences,—ah! who can tell what they will be ?
With the consciousness of our duty fully before us, then; with the prayers and good wishes of the loved ones at home ever present to our minds, let us strive to work manfully. We are now in the school of instruction which is
to fit us for the more stirring realities of life, and as we sow, even in like manner shall we reap. No man can afford to lead a dreamy, useless life, for surely we all know, even now, that life is neither a dream nor a holiday to any one who would consider himself worthy the name of a man.
Personal.
—C. J. Brinkman is assisting his father.
—Mr. T. McNamara is stationed at Cincinnati.
—C. F. Rietz is b>mk keeper in his father’s office.
—Ed. Riopelle is In the drug business in Detroit.
—P. H. Rasche is now at his home, Oakland, Md.
—H. 8. Ash, ’79, at Memphis, Tenn. Quarantine.
—Frank C. Scheid is in partnership with his father.
—Hec. Delaney starts for Florida, some time in October.
—Jno. McCarthy, ’79, is in the hat business in Lafayette.
—Mr. C. Schafer was here Saturday with his son, little George.
—J. Quinn is now clerking in a wholesale grocery house in Chicago.
—Harry Faxon, of Chicago, Ill., is paying his old friends here a visit.
—Harry D. Faxon, ’76, paid Notre Dame a flying visit last Wednesday.
—L. M. Dimick is attending to a special branch of his father’s business.
—P. O’Mara, ’73, is doing a good business in the law at Davenport, Iowa.
—Jas. J. Quinn, ’78, will finish theology this year at St. Mary’s, Baltimore.
—J. Burger (Commercial), ’59, is now doing a big engraving business in Detroit.
—T. Conlan (Commercial), '79, is clerk in a wholesale grocery'house in Kansas City.
—Ambrose Hertzog, ’79, has commenced the practice of law, in Alexander, Va. Success.
—Rev. D. Kielly, of Salt Lake City, Utah, spent a week at Notre Dame. His niece is at St. Mary’s.
—Mr. Toma, ’72, is a prominent lawyer and one of the ablest pleaders of the day, at Nashville, Tenn.
—Mr. T. McNamara, C. S. C., is numbered among the Faculty of St. Joseph’s College, Cincinnati, Ohio.
—Jas. Fenlon ’63-’64-’65, is visiting his nephew in the Junior department. His old friends were’ pleased to meet him.
—Hon. J. W. Murphy, Class of ’66-'67-’68, of Briggs-ville, Wis., has since filled many important positions in Wisconsin.
—Many of our old stuaents will be glad to learn that Prof. O’Mahoney has resumed his former place in the University.
—We learn from Lincoln, Ill.,' that Albert S. Rock, of '79, is assistant teller in the Savings, Loan and Trust Bank, Lincoln, Ill.	.
—Mr. August K. Schmidt, of ’78, is superintending business for his father at Chicago, Ill., and is, we are glad to hear, doing well.
—L. J. Evers, our old friend and classmate, and at one time a member of the editorial Staff, is studying at Troy Provincial Seminary.
—Jas. Dwyer, ’76, called at the University, last week, to to see his old friends and the new College building. He is doing well at Ottawa, Ill.
—J. L. Morgan (Commercial), ’81, is engaged in the stock business with his father in Morris, Ind. Johnnie was an industrious boy, and we wish him success.
Jno. P. Quinn, ’79, now a student at st. Mary’s, Baltimore, while out riding, in mid-July, with friends, was
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
thrown from the carriage and broke his leg. We are rejoiced that he is now fast recovering.
—Jno. S. 8. Cooney, ’76, of Washington, D. C., holds a position in the Pension Office at the National Capital. He is trying to unite literature with good employment, and will soon bring out some books. Mr. Cooney is a talented writer, and his acquaintances here prophesy that his productions will be a success.
—We are pleased to learn that our esteemed and talented young friend, Frank W. Cavanaugh, Dubuque, Iowa, Class of ’79, has been admitted to the bar. We also hear that our genial friend, P. J. Dougherty, Class of ’78, is a conspicuous '• limb ” of the law at Cerro Gordo, Co., Iowa. May they enjoy many years of prosperity and happiness.
—Harry C. Simms, of last year’s Scholastic Staff, has for the nonce settled down to business in Wellington, Kansas, and is doing well. The firm name is Burgett & Simins, grocers and confectioners. Although he has no-al together relinquished the design of finishing the medit cal course, begun here, we think it not improbable that Harry’s great success in business may eventually induce him to do so. Harry says the happiest days of his life were spent at Notre Dame. In our opinion, Harry, a well-established and paying business is far preferable to the uncertain pay and all-day-and-night drudgery of the medical profession. Harry, success to you, old boy, and comrade al the quill. May you ever prosper! If you are wise you may take Shakspere’s advice and throw “physic to the dogs.”
—We clip the following from the Watertown Gazette, of August the 26th: “ Brother Alban, for four years past connected with the former institution, has been sent to Austin, Texas, to aid in founding an institution at that place. If the editor of this paper could prevent it, Brother Alban w< uld not go to Texas, but still continue to be a member of the faculty of the Sacred Heart College. All who have had occasion to deal with the Brother during his connection with the aforesaid institution, will sincerely deplore his removal from among us. We wish Brother Alban an abundance of happiness in his new field of labor, and sincerely hope that he will succeed as well in winning the affection of the people of Austin as he did in doing so in Watertown.” Bro. Alban taught for a number of years at the University of Notre Dame, and it will be a subject of regret to those who attended his classes of English, mathematics and phonography to learn that ill health is the chief reason for his removal to the South. For a year past he has been suffering from a severe bronchial attack, which it is hoped the warmer southern climate will enable him to overcome.
—A dispatch from El Paso, Mexico, says the body of J. L. Pugh, son of ex-Senator Pugh, was found by a scout of Mexican troops near Carrezal, Chihuahua, horribly mutilated. He was tortured to death in a horrible manner, and after death three shots were fired into his body.
,	THOMAS KEY PUGH.
[A former student of Notre Dame University, tortured to death by the Apaches, during the past summer.]
So sad thy smile, so pensive was thy brow That while fond memory recalls thy face—
Thy grave, sweet lineaments—I see them now— They seem to bear thy fate’s forewarning trace—
Thy dreadful fate received from cruel hands and base—
Did some pale phantom whisper in thy dreams ?
Didst hear the whetting of the torturer’s knife !
That thou wert downcast, even when the beams Of May’s glad sun infused a new born life
Throughout the grateful earth and mirth and joy were rife.
Tormentors! would no other victim serve?—
One that had wronged you—whom you might pursue From human motives ? When revenge would nerve
Your arm to deeds of death. But one so true— So kind—so generous I what evil did he do ?
Fierce hatred of the white man! Tell the cause That blows thine embers to undying flame.
Are Indian hearts so vile that Nature’s laws Avail not in them, or forego their claim ?
Or must the white man’s self be held to share the blame?
Ah! could the Black Robe have been free to tell To Indian hearts the words of Christian cheer, These cruel savages in peace would dwell,
And love would take the plaee of anxious fear;
Bliss were their lot hereafter—aye, and even here!
The above was penned and forwarded to us by our esteemed frieud, A. J. Stace, so well and fav irably known as a former Professor in the University. He is at present filling an engagement with a Civil-Engineer Corps in the far West, we append his letter which speaks for itself:
Camp on Lake Fork, Sept. 7,18SI.
Mn. -Editor Scholastic :
Dear Sir:—Not knowing whom you may be for the present. I still venture to legard you as a persona' friend—having noticed that the Scholastic generally falls inti hands friendly to the subscriber. I therefore venture to enclose a few lines suggested by the unhappy death of the regretted Mr. Pugh, whose fate has elicited sympathy wherever known—none, perhaps, more keen than my own, living as I have been for the past month amid the threatenings of an Indian war. I should like to give you my post-office address, and to receive the Scholastic regularly, but we are to leave here in less than a week, and it is uncert tin where we shall be sent.
Faithfully yours,
Arthur J. Stace.
sessissssssssafisaasaH
Obituary.
We are grieved to have to announce to our readers the dea'h of the Most Rev. John Marlin Henni, D. D, Arcu-bishop of Milwaukee, who departed this life at his residence in that city, on the 7th inst. He was born in the Canton of Graubunden, Switzerland, in 1805. He began his ecclesiastical studies there, but soon went to R >me, where he remained until 1829 lu that year, at request of the late Bishop Fenwick, of Cincinnati, he came to this country and was sent to Bardstown, Ky., to prep ire for the priesthood. In 1832 Father Henni was appointed Victr-General by Archbishop Purcell, of Cincinnati, and in 1834 he built his first German church in Cincinna'i. He was consecrated Bishop, in that city, March 19, 1844, and was highly-respec.ed and beloved throughout his diocese. 11 March, 1875, Bishop Henni was created Archbishop of Milwaukee. The fiftieth anniversary of his elevation to the priesthood was celebrated with great cerem >ny i n February, 1879. For the past two years the venerable Archbishop has been in poor health, and since the early part of last June his death has been almost dail.y expected. Archbishop Henni has seen his diocese giow from hu n-ble beginnings to imposing numbers, wealth and influence. In a diocese established only thirty-seven years, through the untiring toil and wise administration of iis first Bishop, a crihedral has been built and consecrated, 262 cuurches, 24 chapels and 25 stations havj been estao-lished; as also an ecclesiastical seminary, 13 relig oas communities, a normal school, 3 male and 5 female academies. There are in the diocese 185 secular priests and 38 regulars. Tne late Archbishop had labored for several ye.irs beyond his sirength, and has been for some time suujrct to fainting fits.
Most Rev. Archbishop Henni was, we are told, one of the Prelates who, in 1866, attended the consecration of Notre Dame to the holy Mother of God, and al ways-showed a marked interest in, and friendship for Very Rev. Father Sorin and those who labored in the cause of education here. Of the Prelates who assisted at that memorab'e ceremony, but one, Most Rev. Archbishop Grace, of St. P.tul, is still in the ranks of the Church Militant. Most Rev. Archbishop Spalding, Bishop Young, of Erie, and Bishop Luers, of Fort Wayne, have long, since gone to their eler-nal reward. Tne friendly interest taken in Notre Dame by Archbishop Henni was c >rdially seconded by his schoolmate and subsequent Vicar-General, the late lamented Very Rev. Marlin Kundig, who with the Archbishop, saw Milwaukee grow from a hamh t of a few huts to a great and prosperous city, and who was a prime factor in the religious growth of the diocese.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	27
Local Items.
—“ Colfax” is here.
—Oh! that corner desk.
—Hurrah for Pat Rooney!
—Walter Thompson is back.
—Look out for the Corporal!
—Oh you’ll die of the cute—.
—“ Deadwood Dick ” is coming.
—“ Who stole dat watermelon ? ”
—F. Kollars was the first Junior.
—“ Graveyard Willie ” is coming back.
—The bathers enjoy themselves hugely.
—Tom Kavanagh will return in October.
—J. C. Larkin was the first old Senior back.
—Wild geese are moving towards the North.
—Rumor says the “ Gambolier ” will be back.
—Notre Dame now wears her most beautiful look.
—Shickey’s horses look sick. What is the matter?
—More than two hundred students in on the 8lh inst.
—Bros. Leander and Lawrence are still the Juniors’ prefects.
—Every student should join in some one of the College societies.
—It will more than pay to join the Military Company this year.
—The Juniors arc at football again. Thanks to Bro. Lawrence.	,
—“Can’t a feller have some of his own watermelon?" H’m! pity.
—Brother Polycarp has put the swings, crossbars, etc. in fine order.
—The Minims speak of Brother Francis Regis as a “ boss prefect.”
—Red hair is dangerous, and Brown feels a little sick around the eyes.
—Baseball and football are the order of the day in all the departments.
—The Church organ will be pumped by water power hereafter. A good move.
—Numerous and noticeable changes have taken place on the lawn and play-grounds.
—Col. Otis, U. S. has presented a large number of books to the Lemonnier Library.
—“ Charlie Ross ” has begun to take lessons in the art of walking Spanish. Let be the hat!
—Masons, carpenters and plasterers are busy finishing up the printing-office and Music Hall.
—Students for Notre Dame and St Mary’s are arriving in large numbers.—South Bend Register.
—Rev. Father Walsh will take charge of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association this year.
—Those young men who start for the Niles road in such a hurry every evening, will have to stop it, or-
—The enclosed orchard back of the printing-office is not meant for students; some one may leave it regretfully yet.
—All desiring to insert locals should drop them in the Scholastic box, near the students’ office, early in the week.
—Master Donn Piatt, nephew- of the distinguished writer of that name, is the latest arrival in the Minim department.
—The St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was organized Saturday, Sept. 10th. A full report will be given in our next issue.
—The Seniors and Juniors have had some interesting games of ball during the last week. Score generally in favor of Juniors.	.
—The one who took that belt from the gun room would
do well to return the same, or he may hear something about it in a future number.
—All should enter the Military Company this year, but those doing so must be pr> pared to endure the strictest kind of training and discipline.
—Bros. Emmanuel, Paul, Raphael and William are the Senior prefects this year. Bros. Leander and Lawrence are still with the Juniors.
—Forty five Minims already. If the Fort Wayne Minim does not put in an appearance soon, we fear he will scarcely find a scat in the department.
—Applications for catalogues are numerous, and present indicaiions point to a large attendance of students from all parts of the country for the coming year.
—The boys who camped at St. Joe Farm this vacation, tender their sincerest thanks to the goo-1 Brothers and Sisters in charge there for the many kindnesses shown them.
—St. Marv’s Academy. Notre D.ime, Ind., has sent twenty-one Sisters of the Order of the Holy Cross to missions in the South and West, this year.—Catholic Columbian.
—Those boys who like watermelons should not be so foolish as to take citrons in the dark, and, after a long journey, discover their mistake, as some of our friends did not long ago. '
—A game of basebs-ll between a picked nine of the Juniors and the Old Reliables of the Seniors, on last Wed-nesdav, resulted in a bad defeat for the Juniors. Score stood 9 to 2 in Seniors’ favor.
—The Minims, remaining here during vacation spent their time both pleasantly and profitably, and are greatly elated at the many favors shown them, and the kindly treatment they received during the holidays. ’
—After many weeks of sultry weather, we were at last greeted with a good, old-fashioned rain, on Thursday afternoon. It was one of the most welcome visitors we have had for a long time, as everything was almost completely parched.
—Rev. Father Walsh, Director; Rev. J. M. Toohey, President; M. H. Arnold, Commodore; E. W. McGorrisk, Secretary; M. B. McG<>rr!sk, Treasurer; Captains, C. B. Van dusen and F. M. Gallagher. T. F. Clarke, Corresponding Secretary.
—Several Minims, who have completed their 13!h year, were transferred to the Junior depanment. That some of them have been able to enter the First Arithmetic Class in the College, and are equally advanced in their other studies, speaks for itself.
—The Juniors had a pulling match Tuesday evening. While the Western boys pulled westward, they were victorious, but were defeated when they changed sides. “ Charley Ross ’’ made himself conspicuous by the absence of strength and presence of lungs.
—The first number of the fifth volume of the Notre Dame Scholastic is before us, the advance courier of the college year, which begins next Tuesday. The Scholastic is one of the best and most carefully edited college papers in the conntry, and few, if any, have as large a circulation.—South Bend Tribune.
—St. Mary’s Academy opened the new scholastic year with seventy-five new pupils present and two-hundred new ones on the roll. The year promises to be the most successful in the history of the Academy. The same may be said of Notre Dame. New st ideuts are pouring in at a very gratifying rate.—South-Bend Register.	.
—To-morrow, the Feast of Our Lady of Seven Dolors, Alissa Regia, page 33 of the Kyriale, will be sung. The Vespers will be found on page 199 of the Vesperal. All students are earnestly requested to take part in the singing of Mass and Vespers, and thus lend both interest and dignity to so worthy and solemn a service.
—The cadets will be reorganized during the coming week. The “ set up ” will be first in order, and until this is thoroughly mastered, no attempt will be made at either company movements, or the manual. The cadets, this year, will be on the same footing and subject to the same rules as other classes in the University.
—The. 2d regular meeting of the Columbian Literary

28
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and Debating Club was held on Tuesday, the 13th inst. I Messrs. Morse, O’Reilly, Yrisarri, McCarthy, Becerra, and others became members. The Constitution was then read. The President appointed Messrs. Falvey, Tinley, and Steis to select subjects for debates for the year, after which the meeting adjourned.
—Notre Dame and St. Mary’s—Every train that comes to the city now, brings students for these two celebrated institutions of learning, and at both the prospects are, the sessions opening next week will be by far one of the most prosperous years in their histories. The indications are that Notre Dame will have not less than 400 students this year, and St. Mary’s will not fall much behind that number. —South Bend Tribune.
—The first regular meeting of the Philodemics was held Tuesday, Sept ,13th, for the purpose of reorganizing; the election of officers resulted as follows: Director, Rev. President Walsh; President, Prof. O’Mahonv; Vice-President, W. H. Arnold; Recording Secretary, T. F. Clarke; Corresponding Secretary, A. Zahm; 1st Censor, T. M. Bell; 2d Censor, J. Solon; Historian, E. Otis. E. C. Orrick was elected to membership.
—The Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary, composed of the Catholic students of the Senior department, held their regular annual meetings Sept 11th, for re organization. The election of officers resulted as follows:
. Rev. Father Walsh, Director; W. McGorrisk, President; W. H. Arnold, Vice President; J. McIntyre, Recording Secretary; F. E. Kuhn, Corresponding Secretary; E. Olis, Treasurer; E. Taggart, Censor; E. McGorrisk, Sergeant-at-Arms.
—Wednesday 14th, the Feast of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross, was the 40th anniversary of Very Rev. Father General’s arrival in America. The members of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary assisted at Mass and received Holy Communion, which they offered for him. It is the ardent wish of Very Rev. Father General’s numerous friends that he may live to see many other happy returns of this anniversary, and that his future life may be as happy and prosperous as the past.
—The 1st regular meeting of the Lemonnier Boat Club was held on Wednesday, Sep. 14th, for the purpose of reorganizing and the election of officers, which resulted as follows: Director, Rev. T. E. Walsh; President, Rev. J. M. Toohey; Commodore, W. H. Arnold; Treasurer, W. McGorrisk; Recording Secretary, E. McGorrisk; Corresponding Secretary, T. F. Clarke; C. B. Van Dusen and F. W. Gallagher, Captains. The following new members were elected: Messrs. Kuhn, Kindel, Thompson and McCarthy, after which the meeting adjourned.
/ —Among the curiosities we had lately the pleasure of t/ witnessing was a complete set of books, in the double * entiy system, written in stenographic characters. The writing took up so little space that the books had an empty look about them, but everything was there, and in ordinary long-hand they would be respectably filled. The set belonged to Bro. Alban, for some years teacher of stenography here—and were part of his work when a student. Bro. Alban is an excellent stenographer; it can literally be said of him that he hasjthe Munson-Pitman system “ at his finger-ends,” and a very good system it is.
—The first regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society was held Tuesday, Sept 13ih. The following are the officers for the next session: Rev. Thos. E. Walsh, C- S. C-, Director; Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M., President; Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Promoter; L. Gibert, First Vice-President; G. Schaefer, Second Vice-President; G. Kipper, Treasurer; D. C. Smith, Recording Secretary; G. Haslam, Corresponding Secretary; H. Devitt, First Censor; F. Campau, Second Censor; J. Flynn, Librarian; P. Archer, F. H. Kengel and H. Metz, Property Managers; Delano Seveois, Sergeant-at-Arms.
—A meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception was held Sunday evening, Sept. 11th. After a few remaiks by the President, the election of officers for the first session of 1881-1882 took place and resulted in the choice of the following-named officers: Director, Very Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C.; President, Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C.; 1st Vice-President, A. M. Coghlin; 2d Vice
President, N. H. Ewing; Recording Secretary, J. W. Guthrie; Corresponding Secretary, J. C.Ruppe; Treasurer, J. L. Heffernan; 1st Censor, A. A Browne; 2d Censor, C. M .Murdock; Sergeant-at-Anns, P. J. Hurley; Standard Bearer, G. Castenado.
—The first regular meeting of the Thespian Society, for the purpose of electing officers for the ensuing session, was held Monday, Sept. 12'h. The following are the officers : Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director; Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M., President; Prof T. O’Mahony, A. M., Critic and Dramatic Instructor; Vice-President, W. B. McGorrisk; Historian, W. H. Arnold; Recording Secretary, T. F. Clarke; Treasurer, A. Zahm; Corresponding Secretary, E McGorrisk; First Censor, G. S- Tracy; Second Censor, C. J. McCarthy; Sergeant-at-Anns, M. Healy; Property Manager, J. Solon; E. Otis; Promoter, F. A. Quinn; Marshal, J. O’Neill; Messrs E. C. Orrick and C. B. Van Dusen were unanimously elected members.
—The Columbian Literary Debating Society was reorganized on Saturday, Sept. 10th. The following named gentlemen were elected officers for the ensuing session of the scholastic year.- Prof. J. F. Edwards, LL B., President; F. Kuhn, Vice-President; F. Dever, Treasurer; E. Taggart, Recording Secretary; J. F. Browne, Corresponding Secretary; B. Zettler, General Critic; J. R. Mar-lett. Marshal; F. J. Baker, 1st Censor; W. Johnson, 2d Censor; Sergeant, E. Eager. Prof. J. A. Lyons was elected Honorary President; Bros. Emmanuel and Paul were elected Promoters. A committee, composed of Messrs. Kuhn, Taggart, Marlett, Dever and Browne, was appointed to apprise them of their respective election.
—Very Rev. Father General’s first visit at the commencement of the session was to the Minims. After each student had been introduced, and affectionately welcomed by him, he made some interesting remarks, the substance of which was, to observe the College rules from the very start, to be attentive to their studies, respectful and obedient to their teachers, kind and agreeable towards each other, and polite and civil to everyone. In order to secure these ends, he advised them to enjoy themselves at the recreation time—even by making as much noise as they wished; to sleep well, and, above all, to do their duty well at each of their five daily visits to the refectory. We believe the Minims are carrying out the advice of their beloved Patron, for a happier crowd of boys we have never seen at Notre Dame.
—It would be quite a relief if some of our room-mates would take the advice of Dr. Clinton Wagner, and breathe through the nose instead of the mouth, and by so doing, avoid snoring. In a late lecture, the learned physician says: “Don’t breathe through the mouth; it often effects a constitution seriously, and a person who is habitually addicted to it can easily be distinguished by the silly and idiotic expression of his face. Indulgence in this habit affects the hearing, and the nose is apt to become permanently closed. It also produces chronic inflammation of the wind-pipe and the upper part of the throat, and it al e-s the character of a person’s voice. Indian mothers teach their children in infancy to breathe through the nose, and to this must be attributed, in a great measure, their freedom from these diseases, and their excellent health. A nose breather,” the speaker added, “ never snores.”
—People travelling to the Northwest, will be gratified at learning that the “Great Rock Island Route” opens a new line from Chicago to Minneapolis and St. Paul, July 17th, running two through daily trains, leaving Chicago at 12.05 and 9 30 p. m. This new line is to be known as the “Albert Lea Route,” and passes through the very best sections of the Slates of Illinois, Iowa and Minnesota, affording travellers a view of the great harvest fields of our country, and a section peopled by the most progressive and prosperous of our Northwestern inhabitants. We understand that round trip excursion tickets to points in the great wheat region of the Red River of the North, and Missouri River valleys, will be immediately put on sale, good for 40 days from date of issue. This will enable Eastern farmers to visit the greatest wheat country on the globe, and see harvesting done on the most gigantic scale. Surely, no one that really desires to see the West, will forego this opportunity to do so, by ticketing oyer any
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
29
other than the “ Albert Lea Route,” via West Liberty. The Great Rock Island Depot is the most central of any in Chicago, being in the very heart of the city, close to the great hotels, post-office, and leading mercantile houses.
The Rhyme of the Railroads.
BY LONG RANGE JOE, OF THE WESTERN RESERVE.
Six persons from six different places came To pass Commencement Day at Notre Dame; They met together at the close of day, And talked on Railroads to while the time away.
“ There is no better road,” said Judge Joseph Walton, “Than that popular line, Chicago and Alton—”
“ Nay, nay sir! ” said Jones ; “I agree not with you ;
You can’t get ahead of C. B. and Q.—”
“Yes, sir! the Chicago and Northwestern line,” Said Smith, “ is a road that is really so fine—’’
“ But the Michigan Central,” Robinson said,	■
“In every respect is vastly ahead”—
“ Dispute, if you will, but I. sir, incline,” Said Green, “ to the great Pennsylvania Line—”
“Pshaw ! ” said White ; “one road is the best of them all— The Old Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul.”
And then there was danger they all would fall out, ■ For each thought the other an ignorant lout
Who had no idea what he talked about, When to their relief Father Solemn Fact came, And all of them asked he kindly wou’ d name The road that enjoyed most popular fame.
“ Why,” he said, “the fact doesn’t admit of a question; I’m amazed that you need the slightest suggestion;
Of course I concede the roads are all good, But I thought that all travelling men understood That the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern route Is by far the best road that is out.
On what other line will you find such a force Who make all things run in agreeable course ? Why, there’s General Manager Newell, Whom all of us know is a regular jewel;
And reliable Paine, the General ‘ Super.,’ Who works like an old war-horse trooper; And Johnson, who for passengers well does provide, And Carey, who furnishes tickets to ride;
And Freeman, who takes all our baggage in hand; Conductors, besides, the best in the land ;— Now, gentlemen all, can any one tell
Of a road better officered,—one which does more For its numerous patrons than the Lake Shore ?"
They were silent awhile ; then one of them spoke And said he regarded it all as a joke. _
“You may say what you will, but I, with the rest, Still incline to believe my road is the best” Father Solemn Fact laughed: “It can’t be denied That they’are all of them good ; so wherever you ride, You may be very sure you’ll be quite satisfied.”
—Col. Elmer Otis, U. S. A., has the grateful thanks of the members of the Lemonnier Library Association for the following donation to their library: Works of Louisa M. Alcott, Little Women, Part First; Little Women, Part Second; Little Men, or Jo’s Boys; Eight Cousins, or The Aunt-hill; R >se in Bloom; Old-Fashioned Girl; Hospital Sketches and Other Stories; Aunt Jo’s Scrap Bag; My Boys; Shawl Straps; Cupid and Chow-Chow; My Girls, etc.; The Works of Aurelius Augustine, Bishop of Hippo; The City of God, 2 vols.; History of the Catholic Church, Darras, 4 vols.; Annals of the Army of the Cumberland, by an Anny Officer; Toe Life oi Anne Catharine Emmerich, Helen Ram; Life of Anna Maria Taigi, Edited by Edward Healy Thompson, M. A.; Madame Louise de France, D lughter of L- >uise XV; Life of Princess Borghese; Life of Herman, the Pianist; Life of St. John, Baunard; Illns'r.ous Women, by G. F. P.; The Poems of Adelaide A. Procter; Memorable Wars of Scotland, by Tytler; Old Times on the Mississippi, by Mark Twain; Order of St. Dominic, Lacordaire; History of Rome, by G z au; Gallitzin jm the Holy Scriptures; Two Ways, and Other Stories; The Young Crusader, 1871; Young Unisud,r, 1876; Oral Discussions, Hughes and Breckenridge; Exp<'siiion of the Apocalypse; Adventures of Don Quixote; A Winged Word, by M. A. T.; Balmes’s European Civilization ; Madame Agnes and Mueceron; Rome and the Abbey; Wiseman’s Lectures, Nellie NeterviHe; Poor Mail’s Catg<
chism; Manual of Military Telegraphy: Nonet’s Meditation for Every Day in the Year; Elia, or Spain Fifty Years Ago, Caballero; In the Eastern Seas, Kingston; Maggie’s Rosary; British Catholic Poets; Sins of the Tongue; The Two Schools, Mrs. Hughes; Great African Traveller from Mnngo Park to Livingstone; Romance of the Revolution; The Banks of the Amazon, Kingston; The Sign of the Cross in the Nineteenth Century, Gaume; American Pioneers, David Crockett; Hendrick Conscience’s Works, 8 vols.; Young America Abroad; Country of the Dwarfs; Stories of the Gorilla Country, by Paul du Charllu; Little Pierre; Sermons by the Paulists; God our Father; The Invitation Heeded, Stone; Shortest Way to End Disputes; Sacrum Septenarium; Newman’s Sermons; Anne Severin, Mrs.C raven; Memoirs and Sermons of Rev. Father B iker; Fabiola, Cardinal Wiseman; The Christian Trumpet; Letters of Eugenie De Guerin; Journal of Eugene De Guerin; TheSacramentals,W. J. Barry; Holy Communion; Ancient History, Fr. I. Gazeau, S. J.; In Heaven, we Know our Own; Grandmamma’s Spectacles; Grounds of the Catholic Doctrine; The Spirit of Faith; The Happiness of Heaven; The Poor Man’s Catechism; The Catholic Christian Instructed; The Sinner’s Guide; Feastsand Fasts; Glories of Mary, St. Alphonsus Liguori; History of the Catholic Church, Noetheu; Tales of the Sacraments; Arnoudt’s Imitation of the Sacred Heart, J. M. Fast re, 8. J.; Phases of Christian Love, Lady Herbert; Tales of the Angels; Meditations on the Litany; LaLitte ateurs Franchise; Easter in Heaven, Weninger; Memoirs of Guardian Angels; Elevation of the Soul; Evidences of Catholicity, Spalding; Hidden Treasure; Holy Week; Father Oswald; Rosaiy and Scapular; Discourses to the Young; Apologia pro Vita Sua, Cardinal Newman; School Recreations; Genevieve; St. Agnes of Rome; Bible Illustrie; Ahn’s French Method; Summers’ Talk About Lourdes; The Man with the Broken Ear, E. About; Ralph W. Weird; Willy Burke; The Heart of Myrrha Lake; Snip and Whip; The Virtuous Villager; Emily and Uncle Hanse; Fr. Rowland; French Prisoners in Rrussia; Pen and Pencil Pictures; Atkinson’s Explanations and Adventures in Siberia; The Story of Seven Oaks; Instructions on Mental Prayer; Light and Darkness; Harry O’Brien; Hermit of Mt. Atlas; Tales of Catholic Artiss; Florestine; Toe Hope of Katzekopes; Angel’s Visit; Talcs of Many; Honor O’More’s Three Stories; Sir Aelfice; The London Miser; St. Maurice; Antonio, the Orphau of Florence; Idleness and Industry; Scenes at Sea; The School Boys; Uncle Edward’s Stories; Joe Baker; Schmidt’s Tales, 6 vols-; The Rivals; Tales of Navy and Military Life; Stories of the South of France; Beautiful Little Rose; Emma’s Cross; The Young Captives; Battle of Lepanto and Relief of Vienna; Tales of the Affections; Truth, and Trust; Ellerton Priory; May Day; The Young Astronomer; James Chapman, or Common Sense; Spiritual Consoler; Visits, Liguori; Love of Jesus, Visits; Little Manual; The Devout; Spirit of Liguori; Student’s Manual; Liguori on Prayer; Little Rosy in France; Jack and Other Stories; Tomboy, and Other Stories; Brave Boys of France, and Other Stories.
Roll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has giver entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed iu alphabetical order.]	,
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W, J. Browne, J. F. Browne, F. X Baker, R Becerra, W. H. Bailey, W. F. Berry, W. 8. Bolton, F. M. Bell, J. M. Boose, J. J. Conway, T. F. Clarke, W. A. Connor. C. Coughanw, J. T. Concannon, C. V. Chelini, 8. G. Clements, L. F. Callegari, J. Drury, A. D. Dorsey, E. G. Eager, F. C. Ewing, W. Eaton, R E. Fleming, C. L. Fishburn, J. M. Falvey, M. Falvey, H. A. Grumbling, W. W. Gray, F. W. Gallagher, N. W. Halthusen, T. D. Healy, H. A. Hagan, M. T. Healy, W. Johnson, A. Jones, A. T. Jackson. A. Kuntsman, J. Kindle, F. Kinsella, F. E. Kuhn, J. C. Larkin, E. McGorrisk, J. F. Martin, C. I. McDermott, J. E. McEriain, J. R. Marlett, H. W. Morse, J. A. McIntyre, J. Millett, P. McGinnis, W. J. McCarthy, A. Myer, J. Nash, H. H. Noble, J. O’Reilly, J. P. O’Neil), F. O’Rourke, J. W. O’Connor, E, C. Qrrick, E. A Otis, J. N, Qsher, F. Patpiqtte, C, 3,
30
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Pierson, F. A. Quiun, P. Rasehe, C. 0. Roberts, J. E. Schalk, A. P. Schindler. J. Solon, A. C. Schiml, W. E. Smith, B. S. Schofield, W. Schofield, H. A. Steis, 0. A. Tin'ey, W. M. Thompson, G. S. Traev, C. B. Van Dusen, E. J. Tagg.irt, F. S. Weber, J. A. Weber, F. Ward, J. E. Walsh, E. D. Yrisurri, J. V. Zettler, A. Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
P. H. Archer, A. W. Ayres, A. A. B'owne, W. J. Bvrne. W. F. Bacon, Ed Baily, W. H. Barron, G. L. Castanedo, F. X Cam-pau, A. J. Campau, J. M. Courtney, J. S. Courtney, A. S. Col- ■ yar, A. M Coglin, W. L Coglin, W. J. Cavana gh. J. L. I Castillo, A. M. Chirhart, J. A. Devine, J. L. Deschamp. Mich. Dolan, H. F. Devitt. C. C. Echlin, C. Devo’o, N. H. Ewing, W. J. Ellis, Harley Fisher, E. F. Fenlon, Ed Fishel, Fred Fishel, W. E. Freyermuth. J. IL Fendnck, Richard Freieh, F. C. F’.e lix, Jacob Friedman, J. M. Flynn, L. J. Gibert, H. E. Gi’bert, W. M. Graham, M. S Gooley, J. G. Grever, E B. Gerlach. J. W. Guthrie, E. F. Gall, A A. Ga’I, J. L. Heffernan, P J. Hoffman, H. N. Hess, H. D. Hiubeler F.’J. Hurley, E. A. Howard, G. J. Haslam, W. E. Jeannot, W. H Johnston F. A Krone, C. C. Kolars, Oscar Kempf, F. J. Kahmann. G C. Kipper, W. D. Keenan, F. H. K'-ngel, Harry A Kitz, Samuel Lippman, F. C Lund, O. L.- Ludiijw. Jos. Living-ton, J T. McG<>rdon, H. M.' Metz, G. A. Moai.dw, J. S. MeG.ath T. E McGrath, F. X McPhillips, 0. L. Murdock, S. T. Murd >ck. W. II. McCarthy, C. J. Messenger, M E Murphy, W. P. Mahon. J. T. Neeson, E. P. Nash, J. E. Orehtod, J. P 0 D >nneli. Felix 0 singer, W. O. Pinks-aff, J. M. Powell, H P. Porter, 0 F. Porter, D. G. Paul, F. B Peters, Thos. U. Ryan. Sisr. R"se. helm, A. L. Richmond, C. F. Rose. G. J. Rhodtus, J. C. Ruppe, W. J. Ruprecht, Lincoln Rog-rs, D. C Smith, H. C Snee C. D. S-vi-rs. G. H. Schafer, H. G Sells, E G. Tappan, D. G. Taylor, G. E. Tour-tilotte, A. T. Tazgart, Thos. J. Williams, J E. Warner, C. C. Warner, P. J. YrLarri, J. E. Zaehnle, Chas Ziegler.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
D. A. O’Connor, J. A. Frain, J. H. Dwenger. C. McGordou, C. Metz, T. Ellis, P. Campau, J. Beall, L. E. Young, J. S. Chaves, M. Devitt, H. L. Ackerman, W. Prindiville, W. Devine, J. Rose, D. Piatt, J. J. McGrath, J. A. Ruppe, C. Campau, A. Roberts, L. P. Graham, D. Prindiville, C. Brandom, C. Young, M. T. Byrne, H. Dirksmeyer, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, F. Coad, G. Price, A. J. Otis, .F. I. Otis, H. Hynes, J. Tong, W. T. Berthelet, E. Chirart, W. Miller. J. Kelly, J. Nester, F. Nester. D. McCawly, E. P. Nash, 0 Quinlan.
Three Great Cities of the West
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Care, Day Cars, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Care and Pullman Palace Bleeping Cars, run through direct, with.	out change, from
The ^inim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution of Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in Heading. Writing. Spelling, Arithme-ic, Geography, Grammar, and United States History, is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Per-onal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—S125, per Session of Five Months. German, Latin, Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Depaitment.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E WALSH, C.S.G.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Matthews & Holt,
PLUMBERS & GASFITTERS,
’	MANUFACTURERS OF
GAS MACHINES,
AND DEALERS IN GASOLINE, .	75 Dearborn St., Unity Block,
CHICAGO ILL.
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY,
CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and
ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
Ho extra charge for seats in the Jines t Reclining Chair Palace Cars in the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of any Class between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA
The Beat and Quickest Route from Chicago to
MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL
POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
The Short Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Ne braska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the North and South, and to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Minin^ districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply at any coupon Ticket Olllce in the United States and Canada, or to
Jambs Charlton,	J. C. McMullin,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent, Gen’l Manager.
210 Dearborn st, near cor. ol Adams, Chicago.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	31
“THE GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE”
Calls your attention, to the following REASONS W±±V—if about to make a Journey -to the GREAT *WffiST—you. should Travel over it:
As nearly absolute safety as is possible to be attained. Sure connections in Union Depots, at all Important points. Vo change of ears between Chicago, Kansas City, Leavenworth. Atchison or Council Bluffs. Quick journeys, because carried on Fast Express Trains. Day cars that are not only artistically decorated, but furnished with seats that admit of case and comfort. Sleeping cars that permit quiet rest in home-like beds. Dining cars that are used only for eating purposes. and in which the best of meals are served for the reasonable sum of seventy-five cents each. A journey that furnishes the finest views of the fertile farms and pretty cities of Illinois. Iowa and Missouri, and is afterwards remembered as one of the pleasant incidents of life. You arrive at destination rested, not weary; dean, not dirty; calm, not angry. In brief, you get the maximum of comfort at a minimum of cost.
That the unremitting care of the Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway for the comfort of its patrons is appreciated, is attested by its constantly increasing business, and the fact that it is the favorite route with delegates and visitors to the great assemblages, political, religious, educational and benevolent, that assemble from time to time in the great citiesof the United States, as well as tourists who seek the pleasantest lines of travel, while en route to behold the wonderful scenes of Colorado, the Yellowstone, and Yosemite. To accommodate those who desire to visit Colorado for health, pleasureor business, in the most auspicious time of the year, the Summer season and months of September and October, the Company every year puts on sale, slay 1st, at all coupon ticket offices In the United States and Canadas, round trip tickets to Denver, Colorado Springs and Pueblo, at reduced rates, good returning, until October 31st. Also to San Francisco, for parties of ten or more, good fbr ninety days, at great reduction from regular fares.
KE5YE3YBEI5, this is themost direct route for all points WEST and SOUTHWEST. For further information, time tables, maps or folders, call upon or address
TEL. 3R..
Vico Pres’t and Gcn’l Manager, Chicago.
□e. ST. JOHX, Gcn’l Ticket and Pass’: Agent.
Weeklv Newspapers.
THIS CATHOI/IC UNIVERHE, an excellent Catholic and family newspaper, puhl’shed every Thursday.
Terms, §2.50 per annum. Address, Manly Tello, Manager and Editor, 117 Erie treet, Cleveland, Ohio.
TEUE CATHOLIC COIuTUMZItlpublished weekly at Columbus, O. ^nbscriptions from Notre flame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, §2 per annum.
D. L. Clarke, of 70.
TIITE A. V JtJ MABIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Satnrdav at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation o: the Holy Cross, “ubscrip-tlon price, $2.50.
Michigan Central Railway
Timo Tal>ie-Nov. 11S7O.
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.		♦Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -•• Mich. City-“ Niles -- - - -“ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson - - - Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p. in 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a. ui 11 13 “ 12 15 <>. m 1 4t> ” 4 05 “ 6 30 “		4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8-05 *’ 9 50 "	515 p in. 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 28 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	9 10 pm 11 30 “ 12 48 am 2 28 “ 5 00 “ 8 00 “
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.		♦Jackson Express.	t Pacific Express	tEven’g Express.
Lv. Detroit - - -“ iackson- - -“ Kalamazoo -“ Niles - - - -“ Mich. :’ity- Ar. Chicago - - -	7 00 a.tn IP 20 * ' 15 p.in 3 t.5 “ i 3 • ‘* 6 50 “	9 35 a in 12 15 p. in 2 37 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		5 55 p. m 4 50 a, m G 50 " 8 t'8 “ io 35 “	9 50 pm. 12 45 a.m. 2 43 “ 4 15 “ 5 30 “ 8 00 “	8 10 p.m 1 15 “ 1 38 a. tn 3 30 “ 4 55 “ 730 “
Niles and Soxitli Bend I>ivision.						
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p.m “ N. Dame-8 52 “ 5 38 “ Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	7 15 “			♦GOING SOUTH. Lv Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame—7 40 “	4 48 ” Ar. So. Bend—145 “	4 55			
♦Sunday excepted. tDaiiy. tiaturday and Sunday excepted. Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard, G, P. & T. A., Chicago, Ill.	Gen’l Manager, Detroit. Mich. G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.						
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
Condensed Time Talkie, Nov. 7, 18SO, TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, COR. CANAL AND MADISON STS. (WestSide), ON ARRIVAL OF TRAINS FROM NORTH AND SOUTHWEST.
GOING WEST\
	No. 1 Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 3, Night Ex	No. 5. Limit Ex.
Pittsburg,	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,		 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive	12.05 a.m. 1.15 “ 3.30 “ 5.00 “ 655 “ 7.25 “	9.15 A.M. 10.10 “ 1.20 p.m. 3.18 “ 5.40 “ 6.15 “	1.50 p.m. 255 “ 5.35 “ 7.13 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	7.30 p.m. 10.25 p.m. 1.40 AJH.
Crestlin	Leave Forest	 Lima,				7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.15 P.M. 8.46 “ 7.00 “	635 p.m. S.18 “ oqn ** 12 08 a.m. 250 “ 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.28 ‘ 12 3*2 A.M. 240 ‘ 4.55 •« 8.00 “	145 A.M.
Ft. Wayne,	 Plymouth,	 Chicago,	Arrive				5.35 “ 7.16 “ 9.40 “
GOING EAST.				
	No. 8, Fast Line	No. 2, Morn. Ex.	No. 4, AtlamEx.	No. 6. N. Y. Ex.
Ch iea en	LEAVE Pl: mouth,	 Ft. w «y ue,	 Lima, 1	 Forest,	 Crest line,	Arrive	9 40 p.m. 2.50 a.m. 6.55 “ 8.55 “ 10.08 “ 11.45 “	8.30 a.m. 11.53 “ 235 p m. 4.36 “ 5.43 “ 7.10 “	5.15 p.m. 9.25 “ 12 15 A.M. 238 “ O-5b ** 5.30 “	3.30 p.m. 8.35 p.m. • ••••••••• 12 35 a.m.
Crestline,	Lbavb Mansfield,	 Orrville,	 Alliance,	 Rochester,	 Pittsburgh,.... Arrive	1205 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.26 “ 4 00 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7 30 p m. 803 “ 10 06 “ 11.45 “ 2 04 a.m. 3.15 “	640 a At. 7 20 “ 923 “ 11.25 “ 210 “ 3 15 p.m.	1240 a.m. 1.15 “ 257 u 4.25 “ '7 30 A.M.
Trains Nos 3, 6, 5 and 4 run daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 8 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday This is the only Line tha run* tbe celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale al all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates. G. R- WOOD.	E. A- FORD. Gen. Pas & Tkt - gt, Phil., Pa. R. R.	Pittsburgh, Pa.				
32
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Dame in 1872for the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &e., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowiedged by the librarian. Please address
J. IT.
Notbe Dame, Indiana.
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems, BY MAURICE EGAN. Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notbe Dame University.
Brice, $1, postpaid.
Address	c.
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON,
Philadelphia, Pa.
LAKE SHORE AND MICHIGAN SOUTHERN RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 14,1889, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2.25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line. Arrives at Toledo 9.50 a. in.: Cleveland 2.30 n. m Buffalo, 8 50 p. m.
11 05 a. m , Mail over Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 5.25 p. m.; Cleveland 10.10 p. m.; Buffalo, 4 a. m.
9.12 p. m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2.40 a. in.; Cleveland, 7.05 a. m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p. tn
12.16 p. in., Special New York Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 5.40 p. in., Cleveland, 10 10 n. m Buffalo, 4 a. in.
6.21 p. in., Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo 10.35 p: m.; Cleveland, 1.45 a. m.; Buffalo, 7.25 a. in.
GOING WEST.
2.43 a. m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3.35 a. m., Chicago 6. a. m.
5 05 a. in.. Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 a. m., Chicago 8.20 a. m.
0-03 a. in. Accommodation. Arrives at Liporte 9 05 a. m.; Chesterton, 9.47 a. m.; Chicago, 11 30 a. m.
116 p. m. Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 212 p.m.; Chesterton, 2.52 p. in.; Chicago, 4.10 p. m
4.50 p. m.,, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 538; Chesterton, 6.15 p. m.; Chicago, 8 p. m.
WESTERN DIVISION TIME TABLE.
EASTWARD.	2 MAIL.	4 Special N. Y. Express.	6 Atlantic Express.	- 8 Chicago and St. Louis Express.	20 Limited Express.
Chicago	Leave Grand Crossing	 “ Miller’s	 Chesterton	 “ Otis	 “	7 35 a.in. 8 09 “ 9 10 “ 9 32 “ 9 47 10 06 “ 10 08 “ 11 05 “ 11 15 “ 11 40 “ 5 25 p.m. 4 50 “' 10 10 a.m.	9 00 a.m. 9 31 “	5 15 p.m. 5 50 “	10 20 p.m. 10 56 “ 12 05 a.m. 12 32 “ 12 52 “	3 30 p.m.
					
		11 02 “ 11 20 “ 11 22 “ 12 16 p.m. 12 50 “ 10 35 “ 4 10 a.m. 7 (K) p.m. 9 45 “	7 32 “		
Laporte	Arrive Laporte	Lrave South Bend	 “ Mishawaka	 “ Elkhart	Arrive Toledo	 “ Cleveland	 “ Buffalo	 “ New York	 “ Boston	 “					
			8 20 “ 9 12 “ , 9 20 “ 9 45 “ 7 30 “ 1 25 p m. 6 45 a.m. 9 20 “	. 1 20 “ V- 2 ‘25 “ ' 2 35 “ 3 00 a.m. 9 50 “ 2 55 p.m. S 15 “ 10 30 a.m. 2 40 p.m.	5 38 “ 6 21 “ 6 45 “ ' 10 50 “ 2 00 a.m. 7 40 10 10 p.m.
W. P. JOHNSON, Gen’l Passenger Agent, Chicago.
J. C RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division, Chicago.
JOHN NEWELL, Gen’l. Manager. CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t,