®I)£ S’djMaMtc IJear.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY AT NOTRE DAME. DEVOTED TO THE INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS- -
Editors of the Present Slumber:
31. C. PETERSON,	J. GIBBONS,	T. O’MAHONY.
Vol. I. Notre Dame University, Feb. 22, 1868. No. 25.
A MAK OF DECISION.
By decision—I mean a strong and remarkable quality of a man seizing its object with a grasp of mind not to be easily changed or diverted. A proper decision is not prejudiced—one sided— which will decide without investigating the right; it opens its ears to the voice of truth, right, and justice. But when convinced of - the truth, right and justice, there it stands, firm and immovable on the mind, as consistent as the elements of integrity on which it is based. Ifimplies therefore selfconfidence, moral courage, and elevated virtue. The man of decision is imparted executive strength to overcome all absurd acts or difficulties which are, a common occurrence in any task which we may undertake,—even in commercial business, at the bar of justice or within the halls of congress. This virtue may be developed in a wrong cause, then it becomes a fatal element of strength. But when the object is • right then it is a pure and holy virtue, which is admired by every one. I must say that the man who wishes to elevate himself above the common principles of society, or occupy any station in public life, must be able under any circumstances to speak against what is wrong, to utter the unequivocal word no, and when the object is good, yts, for without such a decision a man is not worthy to occupy any station in life. He cannot be trusted as a friend, or be relied upon as a man of any responsibility ; for we dare not trust his word, nor trust him to do any kind of business. He may be educated and have a thorough knowledge of the workings of God and man, also qualified to fill any station of public interest,—still if he is not
I under obligations to maintain those principles which he has sworn to defend, he is liable to be . overawed by an assembly of persons, and fail to use proper authority.	‘
He is not the man to hold high political stations or to preach the words of peace and . union. We want men having the spirit of Douglas, Jackson, Hamilton and Washington. When convinced of the right, they were ready to meet the Lion in his den, and had rather perish than violate the high sense of their duty. Such men have lived, and their words still linger iu every true man’s heart with a fresher and holier element of firmness. Let such men be Representatives for the Legislature and places of public trust ,• they will not move along the perilous track in gloom and darkness, but will guide us with safety through all storms that may come from any direction to overthrow this Republic, the most prosperous and powerful in the world.
In conclusion, whatever station a man may occupy, whether Poet, Artist, Statesman or Philosopher, it is decision which must develope and strengthen that wliich belongs^to the inind.
Al. C. Peterson. ------40------ .
Prof. T. E. Howard read before the students of the Senior Department, his opening lecture on History. Prof. Howard’s lecture was one of the finest productions which could be inspired by a subject so rich and suggestive of thoughts as history is. The Professor designed to prove that history is a necessary branch of knowledge, and an accomplishment with which no earnest scholar can dispense. The lecture of Prof. T. E. Howard, we trust, will appear in some future number of The Scholastic Year.
Q
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
A VOYAGE EEOK EUEOPE TO AKEEIGA.
Our thbughts have long haunted the woodland vales and rolling prairies of the distant Vest; often, too, have we stood on the rivers’ banks, looking with pleasure at the limpid waters flowing on in their unceasing solitary pace, amid the pendant forests. Let us turn our thoughts on a trip across the ocean:
It was in July, that pleasant month which bear the emblem of the peasant’s toil, and beautified by the “haul! Divine,"’ I em' barked from Londonderry to Liverpool, en route for America. As the ship gently sailed down the river Foyle, I stood alone viewing with delight the beautiful vales and lofty mountains clothed in their .maiden bloom. On the banks are beautiful mansions glittering in romantic grandeur amid their shady enclosure. With a scanning eye, I viewed the cliffs and basaltic columns of the jutting headlands, as the gentle mildness of the evening afforded the opportunity to pass within a few yards of land. Castlerock and Giant’s Causaway, those places noted for romantic beauty', were standing in majestic splendor, gilded by the evening sun. -
We had a delightful passage across the Irish channel; not even a ripple was on the water to cause the least emotion. About 10 o'clock next morning we landed in the busy city of Liverpool. I went around for a lew days visiting the places of note: the Museums, the Docks, the Exchange, and George's Hall; everything was admirable, and the Docks surpass anything I have seen. The time had now arrived to leave; sol, with much difficulty, wended my way through the crowded streets of this populous city, and finally succeeded in getting on board the tender, which soon transferred me and my baggage to the steamship Tarifa, which was lying at anchor in the river. There I beheld men, women and children-from all parts, talking various languages, which brought me back in spirit to "Babylon of old. The deck was stowed with baggage, comprising chests, trunks, beds, bags, tin cans, and a thousand other articles. Wiiat a place to pass two or three weeks; but in a few hours all was quiet.—every one had his own berth, and seemed satisfied with his- new abode. About one o’clock the ship was under steam, sails were hoisted, anchor weighed, and down the river we gently' floated. Next morning we were in view of the Irish coast. We put into the beautiful Lay of Queenstown, to take on board mail and passengers. Ail were conveyed on board, and in an hour we were on our way for a distant clime. The passengers stood on deck, as the ship plowed nor way along the southern coast. Every’ one admired the delightful scenes, as the setting sun reflected his refulgent rays on the blooming landscape, while nature seemed to imprint on the hearts of the many spectators from every land, the beauties of the Emerald Isle. I remained on deck till the evening twilight had immerged from my view the last sight of land; my weary eyes grew dim gazing in the distance, so I returned to the cabin, chanting" the words of Thomas Moore:
Tho’ ihc last glimpse of Erin with sorrow 1 see, Yet wherever thou art shall seem Erin to me.
Four days passed in joyous harmony, the gallant ship plowing her way swiftly through the calm and silent waters. The merrypastimes of the friendly passengers were enlivened with songs and delightful tale= from thejoliy tars, of their adventuresand voyages to many a distant land. What a delightful sight to look upou the setting sun vanishing in the evening glow, as he casts his sparkling luster on the top sails of many a stately barque, shining in gorgeous splendor over the bosom of silvery waters. After sundown the starry heavens send forth their luster, sparkling like diamonds over the bosom of the deep. How pleasing must it be to the learned astronomer, ',o view the heavenly bodies, as they roll in silent grandeur in the lofty heavens. What exquisite pleasure mast he reap from a voyagq across the darkblue seas I for every hour brings new charms for him; the aurora, the noonday sun, the evening twilight, and the far reflected beams of the polar light which glitters in the distant heavens. How still! how silent i no voice to echo from over the deep
no noise to break the stillness of the nightly breeze, save the ripple of the water against the ship’s sides, as swiftly she floats along. I began to imagine that crossing the Atlantic was more pleasant than painful, and went flown very cheerfully to visit my friends, and repair to bed. I slept very comfortably till abouttwo o'clock, when suddenly awoke by the crash! crash! and gurgle I gurgle! of the waves breaking over the deck, and the loud, shrill whistle of the boatswain to tho sailors: '• cling to the ropes and spars on the lofty rigging,” was audibly heard by all on board. Two days were thus passed in a fearful state; many of the passengers became sick by the dreadful tossing of the ship over the crested wares. At the dawning of the third morning I hastened on deck, (as the heavy gale was now almost over),-with the idea that I should see laud. Bur no I nothing but the seething billows of a boisterous ccean all around. The tottering sails of some vessels were occasionally in view, but at times would disappear, and were imaginably lost when they would sink down among the lofty waves. Though dangerous, how beautiful to gaze on the mountainous wastes of water, as the foaming billows would ascend in every distance and shroud the very top-sails of the statelj- barque with their snow-white sprays. Thus I stood admiring the romantic scene, until a heavy wave came with lightning speed over the forecastle, which caused me to retreat. Another person who"was in my position, came trip! trip! after me, exclaiming: “what a terrible wetting! thank God I am in terra jirma," as he descended the gang-way “ I doubt much tho firma" said I, “and you will be very fortunate if ever you get your feet on terras “ Why,’’ said he, “ I thought a ship was terra firma, for she is both tarred and firm.” Now we were approaching what is known as the “ Banks,’’ and in the evening, when sitting amusing myself reading in the cabin, a roan hollowed out: “ha! ha! the banks.” Iwas overwhelmed with joy and made the greatest haste possible on deck, and to my surprise, instead of Lank or mound, nothing was visible but the dark, foaming ocean and the cloudy heavens. Khat a strange being must he be! sure it is not the first of April now to be making fools. Me had better put on his spectacles and look again. Perhaps he has got an extra drop of Mountain Dew on the brain. A blind piper, who had just played tuning-up “haste to the wedding’’ replied, as he overhear d the remark: “I see! I see!” “ You want a day in the week, too, old man,’’ thought I, indignantly. The Captain, who was just stepping about on deck, after his evening repast, said to me: “ well, young man, do you know where you are now’” “ Yes, I believe I am on board a ship, and that is about all.” “Veil,” said he, “did you ever hear of the Banks of Newfoundland? we are now crossing the banks.” I soon became aware of the fact that it was a term given to the place. The great Fishing Batiks of Newfoundland, that I used to see in tho map, came visibly before my mind. Two days passed on, all the time enveloped in a thick fog, the thermometer ranged during that time, I am sure five degrees below zero. Then came once more the bright, blue sky, the glowing sun, sparkled once more on the undulating surface. The passengers who had to remain in the cabin during the storm, began to make their appearance on deck, and to take an active part in the innocent pastimes of their companions. Every evening seemed like a happy holiday in some friendly abode among the number of invited guests On the evening of the 4th, of August, just as the western sun had gone to rest in yonder delightful horizon, and the sparkling stars were beaming in tho distant heavens, a voice was heard: “ light! light! land! Sandy-hook light house.’’ . This aroused the hearts of the anxious passengers, with no less joy than the cry of land from the despairing sailors, aroused the heart of the gallant Columbus from its weary, yet hopeful repose, on that night whose morning sun was to shine on his future destiny. For on the morrow his name was to be engraved in large capitals, not to be effaced by the sands of time, or to be ranked forever and forgotten among the things that were. Ina few’moments, men, women, and children were on deck, the parents holding in their arms their anxious, smiling little ones, while they cried for joy, “let me see! Palpal

THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	.	3
ma, wont yon hold me np that I may see America.” Some went down to take, for the last time on board, their night’s repose, but the greater part remained on deck all night. It was splendid to behold the numerous lights that struck our view as wo entered the Narrows. All along, the various lights reflected like the noontide sun on the ship as we slowly passed along. In the early morning Staten Island appeared in all its splendor, whilst the “king of day,” guilded the lofty maples and glittering mansions with his golden beams, as if to greet with joy the stranger who came from afar. Wo were in the harbor but a few moments when anchor was cast, end the tender came alongside with a surgeon and officers to inspect both passengers and cargo. The beautiful river boats, crowded with passengers to and from New York and Brooklyn, called my attention, so that I little heeded the bustle that was going on around me. The river was thickly lined with vessels of various sizes, and the flags of nations were waving on their top-masts. All were now on board the tender, ami in a few moments were landed in Castle Garden. Each one looked for his relatives, and all found themselves at home:	•
In that land of fame where plenty docs flow, Where industrious men may cheerfully go ; They’ll find there a home, no sorrow to know, In the land of the free,—the beautiful West.
J. G.
------«»------
WASHINGTON’S BIRTHDAY.
To-day, America comes forth attired in her gayest festive robe, and with a smiling countenance exhorts all her faithful sons to lay aside all political prejudices, and also every unjust opinion they may have entertained of each other; and with united hearts and voices, join in celebrating, the birthday of him. whom she so justly denominates The Father of his Country. Americans hear and heed the voice of their country to-day, especially as it summons them together, that they may honor the memory of the illustrious Washington, who was the benefactor of their own land, and the staunch friend of civilization.
They honor his memory to-day as their liberator from the oppressive sway of Great Britian ; as the leading vindicator of their country’s independence and the founder of the great and glorious Republic of America. If the American pauses and calls to mind the many happy results obtained through the ingenuity and skill of Washington, he will surely feel his heart swelling with gratefulness towards the distinguished patriot. By celebrating this anniversary in a worthy and becoming manner, America displays to the world her love and appreciation of true and exalted patriotism, and that she regards not a hero with mere indifference nor with a heedless eye overlooks his exploits. She venerates the hero while living and perpetuates his memory after he has died by erecting monuments and ordaining grand celebrations in his honor. In this manner she regards her heroic Washington;
she has ordained that the day of his birth should be classed with her national holidays and observed in patriotic spirit One hundred and thirty-six years have rolled by since Washington was born, a period of time that has witnessed the most important and interesting events recorded in American Annals. Wars, revolutions and rebellions have all been carried on within the | boundaries of the United States during tile one h undred and thirty six years that have passed since 1732. Since that time what a wonderful change has taken place. America was then a tributary of England, but now she claims all as her own, from the shores of the stormy Atlantic to those of the calm Pacific, an extension of 3,000 miles; and from the Great Lakes on the North to the Gulf of Mexico on the South, a distance of 2,500 miles. America’s starry banner now proudly floats over this vast portion of the continent, it waves from the highest peak of the Rocky Mountains to the most secreted valleys of the Alleghanys. May we not now ask the question: How did the Americans obtain their independence? Surely you will answer, that it was by their united strength and under the command of General Washington! Then can I see why Americans celebrate the birthday of this General who led the revolutionary forces. Why should it, therefore, be wondered, that to-day is one of America’s greatest festivals? On the other hand it deserves to be celebrated with all the pomp and magnificence that the Republic displays,- and everywhere throughout the land the day is observed in a patriotic manner. Theroarof artilery and the soul-inspiring strains of martial music, joined with the acclamations of enthusiastic multitudes, whose applause occasionally burst forth in appreciation of the address of a speaker, are the general characteristics of the day. Long may the memory of George Washington live in the hearts of the people; and may his birthday always remain a national holiday.
“A patriot’s even course he steered Mid faction’s wildest storms unmoved; By all who marked his mind revered, ’ By all who knew his heart beloved.”
American.
Tide Rev. Curator of the College Museum acknowledges, with many thanks, the receipt of quite a number of rare specimens of the mineral kingdom, from an old student of the University— Master Charles Schurmann—who distinguished himself, during his stay at Notre Dame, by diligence in study, fine qualities of heart, and gentlemanly manners.	• Tyro.
4	.	THE SCHOL. GENTLE WORDS TUKN AWAY ANGES. / Every one, doubtless, has seen the good effect which a kind word, gently spoken, produces on •the mind of an angry man. Men in their intercourse with each other, often commit deeds and use expressions calculated to provoke wrath. The closest friendships frequently are severed for a time by an expression carelessly uttered. But then how easy it is to remove all angry feelings, and to revive the friendship thus broken off. A few kind words whispered in the ear of the offended party, stem the tide of anger, and set flowing again the current of friendship and good will. A clerk who fills a post of trust, has fallen into some mistake, and thereby incurs the displeasure of his employer. When asked how he committed such a mistake, he gives so mild an answer as to disarm the resentment of his employer. As we turn the pages of the New Testament, we see the Saviour of mankind making such mild and gentle answers as to avert the wrath of the canting Pharisees. His soft words and answers confounded and covered with shame his proud and haughty questioners. , Many a time a son who has gone far astray; who has been squandering the goods and substance of his home, turns away the anger of his offended father by a mild answer. We might quote for an hour, instances of the genial influence which 'mild answers and kind words exert. As we mix in society, and journey on through this world of woe, we are struck with the wonderful effects gentle words everywhere produce. In the halls of the Academy, in Congress, . in the Courts of Law, in the thoroughfares of populous towns and cities, everwhere through the world, where men meet. in society and transact the business of life, we-behold the admirable effects worked by gentle words and soft answers. J. G. The Exhibition of the 22d, prepared entirely on a plan which had no precedent at Notre Dame, shall appear too late for us to notice it at length in this number; still, from the programme under our eyes, we believe that it will please by its novelty, and that those who will witness it will give credit to all concerned in it. The programme shall appear in the next number. 	' A Gymnastic Club is about to be formed among the Senior students. When the good which such an institution can do is considered, we cannot but desire for it a prompt beginning and success without end.	A.STIC- YEAR. ' LECTURE ON HISTORY. Written for the Philodemic Society. Gentlemen: Our present Lecture we will divide into six parts. In the first, we will treat: • The Law of Historical Development.—In the second:. The Course of the Development of States. In the third: The same, Course of Development in Modern States. In the fourth: Greek Tyranny. In the fifth: Absolutism in Modern Times. In the sixth: Political Development in Modem History.	■ I. THE LAW OF HISTORICAL DEVELOPMENT. The states of Europe since the commencement of the Christian era, form as connected and general a history as that of the group of states of the Greek peninsula and its colonies in antiquity. The same order and the same law is revealed in the course of their internal development in both periods; and in the history of the whole human race, this, law may be again observed in its largest manifestations. .From Oriental Despotism to Aristocracy, from the government of the ancient and of the middle ages, founded on slavery and serfdom, to the policy, of modern times which is yet in the. course of development, a regular progress may' be. perceived of the intellectual and civil freedom, of one alone, to that of the few and many. But where states have completed their term of existence we may observe a descent in civilization, freedom and power, from the highest point in this ascending scale of development, from the many to the few, again, to one alone. This law may be traced throughout his-toy in every seperate state, as well as in the above mentioned group of states. H. THE COURSE' OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF STATES IN GREECE. Aristotle, with remarkable sagacity, has already explained this law in its bearings upon the history of the Greek nation. In the oldest times, as Homer describes them, when the population was yet scanty, civilization and wealth, even the training to the use of arms, and their possessions, were confined to the few. Patriarchical kings reigned in Greece, who were the sole proprietors of chariots, the leaders of the troops, and presided over sacrifices or in cases of jurisdiction. When, after a time, the number of educated, wealthy men, capable of bearing arms increased, and superiority in war was decided by the ablest horseman, the equestrian order, the aristocracy became the governing body of the state,‘and the
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	5
kingly power was either limited as in. Sparta, or set aside as in every other country.	.
As the increasing prosperity of the middle class of the people kept pace with the degeneracy of the aristocracy, caused by their egotism and selfish ambition and as by improvements in the science of war, the foot soldier acquired consideration and the navy called for the services of the lower orders, the rule of the people, the democratic form of government began to take the place of the aristocracy; or rather, as states gained. in power and extent, and their policy and mode of warfare became more systematic and scientific, mixed constitutions arose, and the lower orders of of the people took their stand beside one another, each possessed of their peculiar privileges.
nr. the same course of development in modern
STATES. '
The development of the states of Europe in modern times has followed the same course, although in wider relations of numbers, pace and time. In the commencement, during the first outpouring and settlement of the teutonic races in Europe, patriarchical kings ruled here (as in antiquity) as chief in war and' justice. . In these heathen times, as in those of Greece,’they found-ded their prerogative upon their derivation from the gods.	.	!	'
But, even in the Christian era there was an epoch, when a prince (sufnamed the great) assumed to himself superiority in" intellect and power, and as such, was recognized by all as their chief. With the introduction bf a more extended education, larger possessions, and with the increased importance ot the horse in the art of war, the equestrian order and feudal nobility acquired the chief rule. The kingly power was limited, or only set aside, in an exceptional case, because the vast extent of modern states made the point of union in a monarchy necessary, and because the records of the old Testament, and the recollections of the Roman Empire, consecrated and gave security to the regal dignity. From the time when transferable property began to be of value, when cities were enriched by trade and commerce, and the Swiss infantry acquired the pre-eminence in war, the rule of the feudal nobility of the fifteenth century was shaken ; and a violent struggle commenced, which has not been fully adjusted'to this day, and in the middle class strives to unite education, property and influence in itself, while the lower orders of the people press hard upon its heels. Where this battle has been decided,. the purely democratic
form.of government (which was natural to the : municipalities of antiquity) has seldom been the , result, but, ratlier mixed constitutions (which Aristotle had already designated by that name) suggested by the wider circumference of modem : states.	Z. -
[to be continued.]	:
in	’	' "
St, Aloysius’ Philodemic Society. /. .
Messrs. Editors:—Thetwentieth regular meeting of the St. Aloysius Philodemic Society, was. held ! Tuesday eve, Feb. 18th, 1868; at which the fol- i lowing formed the programme of the. evening: * Essay, by Mr. James Edwards, entitled “Destine- • tion of a Ship at Sea,” which was undoubtedly excellent, and well delivered; style, brave, and , manly. The question, “Resolved, That Aman .was ; unjustly executed,” was debated by the following - • gentlemen: Affirmative,- Joseph D. Murphy and A.M. Owen; negative, John Grogan and William Hayden. Mr. Hayden having gone home, Mr. W. T. Johnson volunteered to fill the vacancy. The above named gentlemen deserve honor for the able manner in which they prosecuted the debate. After it had closed, the Rev. President, after making a few remarks respecting the merits and demerits of the arguments, said that he could not give a decision, as it had been about equally well debated on, each side. . At the conclusion of the debate, the Two Penny Club Gazette was read, and seemed to be well appreciated by the Society. All the . regular business being then transacted, the meeting adjourned.	Reporter. -
St. Edward's Literary Society.
On Tuesday evening, the 18th inst., St. Edwards Society held its regular literary session, at which the following essays were read: “Perseverance,” by Mr. R. Brown; “Description of a Battle,” by Mr. D. Tighe,” and “The Old and the New Year,” Mr. D. Clark, which were all very excellent, manifesting the superior talents of the writers. After the reading of the Essays, Mr. Peter Michaels, who has recently become a member of this Association, was requested to deliver an extemporary speech, which he willingly did, to the entire satisfaction of all present. Mr. Michaels having resumed his seat, and “ the* clock not having as yet struck the hour for retiring,” the rostrum was occupied in turn by Messrs. McBride, Hibben, Keeler, Fitzharris, and Gibbons, who entertained the Society with very -appropriate speeches. The ease with which those gentlemen spoke upon their respective subjects,
6	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
•USB
proved that they were conversant with them, and their bold delivery showed that they are not unacquainted with the principles of “Elocution.” The meeting then adjourned. Judging from the - improvement of the past session, St. Edward’s Literary Society may justly entertain hopes of a brilliant future.	O.
. --------------------------
The large establishment known as the Apprentice House, is now strolling about loose of its mooring. The idea of moving a frame building 112-feet long, three stories high, and the success which has thus far attended the westward journey of the heavy building, will no doubt secure a high rank among the engineers of our age to the persevering individual who attempted the feat.
------.
Durino the week a subscription was opened among the Senior and Junior students of Notre Dame, who generously contributed the sum of nearly $150.00 for the purpose of sending or supporting a soldier in defence of the holy rights of Pope Pius IX. This subscription will be forwarded with an appropriate address, and the students intend to contribute the same yearly.
Additional List of Students of Notre Lame.
FEBRUARY, 14th, 1868.
Anthony M. Ott,	Sandusky, Ohio.
John A. Seymour,	Spring Lake, Michigan.
FEBRUARY, 18th, 1868.
W. H. Sangster.	Covington, Indiana.
Tables of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
TFee/j Ending February 1th.
J. C. Foley, C. F. Georgas, Wm. Spalding, Jas. Edwards, Win. McClain, A. M. Owen, T. O’Mahony, H. Rodman, P. Michaels and J. Grogan.
Week Ending February 14tA
F. Guthrie, J. H. Lecompte, Wm. Stace, A. J. Klare, Jas. Claffey, A. J. Dornan, J. W. Pape, J. Gibbons, F. Crapser, D. Clarke and D. Tighe.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
WeeZ; Ending February 1th.
E. Callahan, A. Murphy, J. Flanigen, T. Arrington, Wm. Smith, J. Dunn, J. Burns, J. Thompson, J. Shannon, Wm. Reynolds and H. Gallagher.
Week Ending February 14th.
B. Heffernan, J. Broderick, L. Wilson, Jas. B. Carroll, J. Costello, M. Welsh, George Morgan, J. Krautb, C. Marantette and J. Schmeltz.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
.	IFeai Ending February 1th.
Frank Hunt, David .Hukill, Eddie Knight, John Murphy and Martin Smyth.
Week Ending February 14th.
S. Beaubien, G. Gross, H. Holman, E. Knight and E. Wile.
Saint Mary’s Academy, 1 Feb. 17th, 1868. f
TABLES of honor. -
Senior Department — Misses Anna and Catharine Cunnea, K. Doran, Mary Toomey, Emma Carr, L. Lyons, E. Ewing, L. McManman, Anna Tarrant, Iola Conway, Martha Sterling and Emma Picket.
Junior Department.—Misses Margaret Toberty, Julia and Margaret Walker, Mary Clark, Adalade Metzger, IdaFurbish, Margaret.andMary O’Meara.
honorable mention.
Graduating /Class.—Misses M. Tripp, C. Plimpton, Blanche Walton, H. Brooks, Lula Murray and Florence Alspaugh.
First Senior Class.—Misses L. and L. Tong, Emma Longsdorf, Laura Lewis, K. Livingston, Mary Van Patten, Gertrude Leedey, Agnes Ewing, M. Ball, Geneveive Arrington and M. Wolfe.
Second Senior Class.—Misses S. Rooney, Alice Carmody, K. Graham, Mary Carraher, Lelian Chouteau, Rosanna Mukautz,' Virginia Brown, Frances Gittings, Anastasia Darcy, H. Lill, Sarah Teetzel, M. Walton, M. Barnett, Teresa Stapleton, Christina Thomson, Emma Conan, Sarah Gleeson, F. Brady, N. Taber and Mary Claffey.
Third Senior Class.—Misses N. Ogle, Lorena Rettig, Amanda Sissons, Alice Dunn, Josephine Greishop, K. Carpenter, Winifred Corby, Clara Foote, Emma Wade, Ellen Howard, K. Conner, Emily Plomoudon, Augusta Sturgis, L. Bicknell, Ellen Lindsay and Rose Joslin. '
First Intermediate Class.—Misses Mary Rooney, Clara Casteeter, Harriet Thompson, M. and L. Cummerford, Mary Hally, Mary Gordon, Clara Ward, Esther and Josephine Lonergan, Ellen Thompson and Mary Oechtering,
First Junior Class.—Miss Mary Sissions.
Second Junior Class.—Miss K. Foreman. •
A DISPUTED POINT.
The subject of woman’s appropriate sphere, is one which may suggest to the minds of many, a picture at once absurd, ridiculous, and disgusting. Those persons, especially, ivho are opposed to the enfranchisement of woman, from the bonds
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	7
•which fetter her down to the level of no higher thoughts than those of eating, drinking, and dressing; entertain the idea that, if you speak of woman as quite degraded in this position, that, you must certainly wish to see her wear the Bloomers, be “strong-minded,” travel through the country, making bold speeches about the superiority of woman’s mental powers; her right to rule creation; to question antiquity, and do many other nonsensical things; but these good people labor under a mistake.	■
■ The most important consideration in the discussion of woman’s true position, is not whether her intellectual capacity is. equal to man’s, but rather if what she possesses should receive the highest culture. The chief argument employed by those who deny her equality of intellect, and who very unwisely, in consequence, discourage the cultivation of the modicum vouchsafed, is, that our sex are by nature vain, shallow, frivolous; that we possess not mind enough to grasp the principles of science, or even to comprehend practical business transactions, “for,” they say, “were there strength of mind and character enough for anv thing better, woman would not expend her thoughts and energies on luxuries and dress.”
We have read not long since, that Side. Slaistre, in treating of the subject, says: “That a woman’s chief defect, is being like a man,” (we confess that were all men like himself, there would be no doubt of the fact.) “and to wish for learning, is to wish to be a man. Enough, if woman be aware that Pekin is not in Europe, and that Alexander the Great did not demand a niece of ' Louis XIV in marriage.” This is the extent to which the very enlightened gentleman desires the education of woman, though in fact by a marvelous stress of condescention, he will even “permit her enough knowledge of scientific matters, to follow and understand the doings of men.” This is her most perfect accomplishment; the greatest favor possible to bestow, but in the shallow principle here implied, we find the very foundation of whatever-defects some are pleased to designate as inferiority. If woman be vain, frivolous, and shallow-minded, who is chargeable for her misfortune ? Who teaches her from the very cradle, that she was created for no higher purpose than to amuse, to appear, to practice artifices,—in short, to be but a painted automaton of fashion ? Just such grave philosophers as the gentleman above quoted. Who debases, dissipates, crushes her noble qualities ? If such men
arc the superior beings, assumed in the plea for feminine inferiority, why does not their magnanimity essay to elevate and strengthen the characters of those who have the honor to be their mothers, sisters, wives or daughters? This would be natural, but it is in this deficiency of natural affection even, that we find cause to doubt their wisdom. Leaving justice and humanity out of the question, had they common foresight, they would cultivate the intellectual faculties of woman, if not for the pleasure derived from her refinement. and intelligence, at least for the advantage of those whose education depends in a great measure upon her, and who cannot receive immunity from her constitutional and educational defects.
Though woman has been oppressed by an anti-chivalric spirit which accords predominance to brute force, and because of her inferior physical strength, she has been unable to cope with man in commercial enteprises, etc.,—nature has entrusted her with the office of imparting knowledge to the young, and this charge is deeply degraded when she fails to be impressed with the superior nature of her position.
Woman as mother, governess, teacher, or friend, has the care and training of children who are in future to fill the offices of our government, make our laws, negotiate commerce, and to mould national character. According to the education she has received, she 'will impart. The same doctrine she has embraced, she will inculcate.
Let a youth grow to manhood, dishonor his family, and by crime bring ruin upon himself, and disgrace upon his family and country, and who is pronounced as too blame? The world will answer: “ oh, it is the mother! Had she instilled principles of honor and habits of industry, he would not have come to ruin;” but the world is not always right, can the mother be responsible for not giving that which it is not in her power to give, because she does not hold it in her own possession ? If not educated to prize the cultivation of the higher faculties, how can she impart the desired estimate ? If the nobler qualities of the mind are crushed ; if by a custom of tyranny to which the whole world consents, she has been forced into the vain insignificant modes of life to which she is addicted, can she be blamed for not • instilling a love for virtue and wisdom ?
In our own age it is no uncommon thing to meet women,—who, by adversity or by native good sense, have learned the cruelty and injustice of the maxims and the customs of society,—educating themselves. Left, peihaps, with no re
8	THE SCHOLASTIC . YEAR
source for support except the labor of their hands or brain, they struggle through the world, leading almost-isolated lives, scorning the pernicious influence exerted by the leading authors and advisers of the day.
. When death has closed the career of their darkned lives; when the storms of persecution, excited by the silent reproof of their example, has subsided, society will experience the good results of their influence, and may be proud to acknowledge the strength and profundity of mind which woman can, and does possess.
__It is to influential but unprincipled authors, men who wish to preserve their fancied superiority at a small expence, and who assume a consequence not at all their right, it is - to these that women owe wasted, misspent lives, and degraded blasted minds.
When young ladies are taught that they are endowed with intelligence, not only worthy of cultivation, but which they are absolutely obliged to improve to the extent of their abilities; when they are impressed with the truth that they are created for an end far superior to the false life of the fashionable world; when they are (by fond, foolish parents and friends) allowed an aim .above - that of being counted great beauties, the point will assume the natural dignity of her position, while all over whom she exerts an influence, will be ennobled and impressed with a knowledge of her real worth.	-K. Livingston.
Holy Angel’s Academy, / Logansport Indiana.
Those deserving of mention for superior ex-cellencey for the week ending Feb. 7th, are as follows:	.
First Senior—31. Groves and 31. Burns.
Second Senior—F. Knowlton and S. Shultz.
First Intermediate—M. Groh and A. Dickerhoff. • Second Intermediate— A. Izenberg and 31. Sheeran First Junior—K. Rodgers and Z. Nicholas. . German—3L Krentzer and C. Reisberger.
JUusic Department, Sr.—J. Spencer and J. Barnard.
Intermediate—1. Purcell and E. Gruver. .
Junior—E. Clotter and 31. A. Cailin.
» Fancy Work—J. Barker and 31. Krentzer.	-
.	- PAROCHIAL school.
First Glass—D. Gerhart and K. Farrell.
Second Glass—J. Burke and 31. Sue.
Third Glass—J. Farrell and ,H. Cook.
German—J. Benble and J. Clein. -
-	Sisters oe Holy Cross. •
-	_ - - ' - ’ St.’ Angela’s Acapemy,1
•	'	. • 3Iorris Illinois. J
. The young ladies of St. Angela’s -being favored by a visit from the Very Rev. Dr. Dunn, V. G., accompained by some other clergymen, gave a nice entertainment, for which they were highly complimented by the Rev. Gentlemen, who seemed surprised to find St. Angela’s in possession of so much talent. The musical performance would do credit to older institutions. The drama, “Jewess,” was highly interesting. The young ladies who took part in it, were:
3? Hisses Jennie Hynde, Lizzie 31aguire, Kittie 31urrin, 3Iary 31urrin, 3Ioliie Grady, Susie Dyer, Lizzie Dyer, Flora Lysle, Alice 3Iurphy, 3Iattie Vaness, EllieFlanagan, Hellin Kelley, Nora Kelley and Lottie Irving.
At the close the Rev.. Gentlemen passed to*the Class-room, where some highly prized words were addressed to the assembled pupils, and the more valued boon of one full days recreation,- which the Rev. Doctor was kindly pleased to announce for the next week; so ended Saturday, Feb. 15th at St Angela’s.
- ■ _ . -------------«•»— ---• - '
-	St. Angela’s Academy, }
3Iorris Illinois, f
Just through with the examination. The Rev. Pastor was quite surprised to find young ladies so thorough. The appended names deserve consideration in one, or all their studies and good conduct :	■
3Iisses Lizzie 3IcGuire, Jennie- Hynds, 3Iary ■ Nowlan, 3Iary 3Iolowney, Carrie 3Iiller, Louico Willard, Hatie 3Iurrin, 3Iary 3Iurrin, Emma Wineman, 3Iary Philvin, 3Iary Conavan, Hellen Keelley, Norah Keelley, 3Iollic Grady, Alice 3Iur-phy, Sophroner Coolf, Annie Cannon, Hatie 31c-Guire, Emma Sargent; Elizie 3lcCabe, Slaggie 3TcGuire, Lizzie Holderman, Hatie Laughlin, Ellen Rieley, Allie Williams, Ellen Flanagan, 3Iaggie 3IcGovern, Marry Butter, Annie Barry, Winnie Harrigan, Leile Morehouse and Budged Keneleey. -
Horse flesh, our readers, are aware, is becoming quite an article of food. The following jeu d'esprit has been gotten off by a witty fellow who seem to have rather gloomy anticipations:
“ If horse-flesh won’t suffice to feed the masses,
. The next resource will certainly be asses;
-	And heaven only knows where that will end I	.
Some won’t have left a single friend.” -----------------------------r--	’ The Effects of Eating: Horse-flesh for Supper—Nightmare. ■