
^1) c	IJcnr.
'	rTJT5JL,ISIIEI> WEEKLY AT NOTRE DAME.	.
gmH id the fwfmsiis of the
“ LABOR OMNIA VINCIT.”
Vol. II. UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, IND., NOVEMBER 7, 1868. No. 10.
LECTURES OST HISTORY.
Second Lecture.
The Roman Empire under the Pagan Emperors.
In modern times we have become accustomed to consider an empire as .but a more extensive kingdom, and an emperor as only a very great sort of king. But to the Romans the Empire was only the Republic with a single executive added to or rather placed at the head of the government. All the old forms and officers of the Republic remained. But though these remained, though the senate sat as in the palmy days of the Republic, yet the Republic itself had ceased to exist when the power of the government passed into the hands of a single individual.	’
No kingdom was ever governed in a more arbitrary manner than was the proud commonwealth of Rome by many of its tyrant emperors. But it was m respect to this only; the great and often tyrannical power of the emperor, that the Empire resembled a kingdom. The forms of government and the manner of choosing its officers were more like those of a republic. The office of the emperor was not hereditary, as is generally that of a king. ^Neither was he chosen in a regular manner, as is the chief magistrate of a republic. In this was one great cause of the decline of the Roman Empire. Unless when a very good man happened to be emperor, the people suffered under the worst kind of a tyranny. It was much worse than the tyranny of a king; for the latter has some regard for the interests of his house even when he cares nothing for the people. The Roman Emperors, however, owing their power to good fortune, or to crime, had no hope of leaving this power to their chil
dren, neither had they any long line of ancestors to honor by their good conduct. ‘Personal considerations only could influence them for better or for worse: and none but the best men can be trusted when self is the ruling motive. In a free nation public opinion is the governing power ;‘and even the chief magistrate himself is subject to this power as well as to the law of the land.
In fact, there are.but two just forms of government in existence: the elective republicand the hereditary monarchy. The latter will do very well where the majority of the people are ignorant and but partially civilized, so that they are unable to govern themselves. The republic is the best form for man in his highest state. The best men of the best nations have always sought to establish democratic forms of government; and the most enlightened age of every great people has been the age of the republic. The glory of Greece is the republic of Athens. The glory of Rome is her magnificent republic of five hundred years duration. The glory of modern Italy is the Florentine republic, as well as the other commonwealths whose grandeur culminated in the era of Leo X. The glory of our own times is the American republic. And the glory of the future will be the republics of the world; provided the people ever become wise and virtuous enough to govern themselves. The monarchy is the government of force; the republic, that of choice: so that as soon as a people are good enough to live well without being compelled to do so they naturally tend to the republican form of government;‘in other words, they begin^o govern themselves. These being the natural, or necessary, forms of government, all others must be monstrous, that is, contrary to human nature, and of course, to the best interests of mankind. Such was, in great part, the government of the Roman Empire; and hence the name so commonly given to the worst of the emperors,—monsters.- They
74
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
had no hereditary right to govern; neither had they the will of the people, but only their own monstrous violence. Too often even the best of them rose to power by murdering their predecessors, or at least by levying war against them. If we were to judge the Roman people by the worst of their emperors, we should have to conclude that the old Roman virtue had departed forever. But Roman power which had been growing for nearly a thousand years was based on a character which was proportionally great. The magnanimity of the old Roman character could not pass away at once. As it had existed in its grandeur for so many years, so also it continued to manifest itself, and to maintain among mankind the old respect for the Roman name and the Roman arms.
Besides, to the credit of human nature, there were a few good emperors, and some others who possessed noble qualities and great powers; and it was under these that the dominion of the people was farthest extended, and the moral power of the empire most widely felt. The reigns of these rulers were the fortunate periods in the history of the Empire; the periods when a Roman might still feel proud that he was a Roman, even though he was no longer a Roman citizen.
Now we ought to consider some of the causes which had thus depraved the Republic into the Empire, and that great free people into the slaves of such a despotism.
The first cause has already been mentioned,— the wealth which was forced from the nations of the world and made to center in Italy and in the city of Rome. This wealth brought ease and comfort, ease and comfort brought luxury, luxury brought delicacy, softness, effeminacy, weakness. Rather than be at the trouble of governing themselves the depraved people left that trying matter in the hands of unprincipled men.
Another cause was the loss of religious belief among the people. For various reasons, they no longer believed in the gods of the early Romans. They became unconcerned for the future, and therefore reckless of the present life. No people but a religious one can long remain free. For, reusing to care for the life to come, they make up their minds to have all the selfish pleasure possible in this: thus the foundation of all public virtue is gone, and the people can no longer exist without a master, and a brutal master too, for they have, as it were, become brutes themselves, and can be governed only in a brutal way.
A third cause of Roman degradation was the
abject condition of a large portion of the people. About one fourth of them were slaves. It is perhaps possible to conceive of a good man’s holding slaves, and still remaining good himself. Bui, in general, to give one man complete control over another is to brutalize both, to make a brutal master of one, a brutal slave of the other. And such, too often,’ was the relation between the Roman master and the Roman slave. In their case the cruelty of the master and the wretchedness of the slave were much increased by the fact that the slaves were captives taken in battle, or the children of these captives; and to the power of the master over the slave was added the rancor of enemies, to say nothing of the contempt in which the Romans held all outside barbarians. What must have hardened the hearts of these Roman masters very much is the fact, that the slaves were not distinguished from them by color or any other mark, except their state of servitude. Man hates those whom he has wronged, and the more nearly the wronged person is connected with himself the more he hates him.
The last cause that I shall mention which brought about the loss of the Roman character, is the condition of woman. It has been said that the manner in which a nation treats its women is a sure index of the civilization of the people. If man treats woman as a companion, as a help meet for him, one who is to assist him in his labors, as he is to assist her, each doing what is most suitable to the nature of each, woman engaged in the lighter labors because her strength is less, man in the more severe because his strength is greater, each making the other happier, nobler and better,—then is the nation civilized, enlightened, happy, good. If, however, man uses his strength to enslave woman and make her his drudge, then both become brutish, he a tyrant and she a servant, and the nation, or rather people, for there is then no nation, becomes savage , and barbarous. And iT man does neither of these, but treats •woman as a plaything, dresses her up as a doll to look at, then both become corrupt, -and the nation becomes weak, _ effeminate, deprived of sterling virtue. In Rome, woman among the poor was treated as a slave, among the rich as a plaything—consequently, the populace was imbruted, savage, and were only kept from rushing headlong to barbarism by being a part of the strong old fabric of the Empire; while the rich' were sensual, effeminate, and no longer worthy of their proud title of lords of the earth.
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
75
Thus far I have premised, so that you may have some knowledge of the condition of the people during the Empire, and of the causes of its final overthrow.	,
Augustus, the first, and, in many respects, the greatest of the emperors, was in some measure the type of them all. He advanced to the throne through a sea of the best blood of the Roman Republic. Afterwards he tried to wash out all stains of this blood, but it has clung to his garments forever. As all his crimes had been committed under the name of Octavius, he changed that name for Augustus, or the grand one. But although the Roman people, and the world after them, have admired the grandeur of Augustus, yet they have not forgotten the cold-blooded cruelty of Octavius. If he was the patron of the splendid names of the golden age of Roman literature he was no less despicable as one who had consented to the death of his friend, a greater than any of that Augustan age. The blood of the murdered Cicero clings to the garments of the crowned Augustus. One after another, in the first and the second triumvirate, in the wars of Csesar and Pompey, of Brutus and Antony, of Antony and Octavius, by murderous proscription and in open battle, fell all the great men of the last days of the Roman Republic. It is true, that in the absence of a virtuous people there could no longer be a republic, but it is also true, that the cruelties of Octavius, surnamed Augustus, left no Roman alive who was capable of standing at the head of the republic, even if the republic were a possibility.
Thus was the Roman Empire established, in blood and crime, and over a people fallen from their ancient renown and no longer either able or worthy to govern themselves.
Yet the good done by Augustus was very great. During his reign of over forty years he did everything which could make the people -contented with his rule and willing to forget his previous history. He succeeded in the former but not in the latter. The people, were satisfied with his government for the same reason that to-day the French people are satisfied with the government df Napoleon HI; they knew that although it was not the best government for the best men, yet it was the best for them. Besides, they were proud, as the French are, of the great power of the nation. The Roman power under Augustus was magnificent in its very greatness, and in its sublime peace. That empire, as well as the modern one, was peace; and it was the
policy of that emperor as well as of this one to extend and consolidate his power rather by diplomacy than by the sword. The military reputation of the Empire could scarcely become greater than it was: there was therefore little to gain by war, and there might be much to lose. The arts of peace, in consequence, flourished under Augustus, especially the art of literary composition; and it is to Virgil, Horace, and the other poetical and prose writers %hom he encouraged directly or indirectly that Augustus owes much of the splendor that attaches to his memory: their fame is reflected upon him; and he comes down to us rich with the glory of having patronized the golden age of Roman literature.
[to be continued.]
The Reward of Cheerfulness.
BY AN ODD CONTRIBUTOR
There is an ancient legend, From whence, I cannot say, ■ That souls suppressed and crushed on earth
Yet truthful, calm, and gay, Who mourn not at misfortune, . Nor weary of the strife That the Divine All-Giver Has made a part of life, Shall, when they pass the silent shore, And launch their bark afar Upon the sea eternal, Where truth and beauty are, ' Unfold with brightest lustre, And bear a strength sublime	•
To crown the hidden loveliness Mocked at by envious time.
As doth the sheltered rose-cup, That blossoms in the vale, Retain its purest fragrance From storm and fitful gale, So doth the soul, alert to feel The discords harsh that spread, A pall, round all things lovely Upon the earth we tread, Hold treasured in its inmost life The bliss that may not die, If patiently and trusting still ’ It lets the storms sweep by. The smiles of holy angels,
•76	THE SC.HOLASTIC YEAR.
Compensate for the frown With which the stern and selfish Look proudly, coldly down. .
Why should we look for Eden ‘ In a thoughtless, fallen world, Where Eolly and Oppression dark Have wide their flag unfurled, Where Innocence and Wisdom, Are but aliens in the land, And creep like very mendicants Upon a sterile strand ?
Oh, but through tears and mourning, Through tempest and wild waves, How sad, should we outride the blast, And yet, of Pride the slaves, Be wrecked at last upon the reefs, Failing in joy to find The home of peace eternal there; The harbor from the wind!
Sweeter is calm contentment With the sternest, hardest lot, Since earth contains no sorrow That our Saviour suffered not, And most happy we, when dying, If the guerdon we have won’, Of His smile of approbation, And His verdict of “ Well done?1
ON THE CORRECTION OF ERRORS •	—IX—
Mathematical Text-books.
What we look for in a text-book on Mathematics is a clear enunciation of principles, with a sufficiency of practical problems to illustrate them in their various bearings. If the answers ap- • pended to the practical examples' were all found to be correct in the first edition, it would be rather an astounding phenomenon than a qualification we had a legitimate right to expect. Printer’s errors will creep into the best books; and errors in mere figuring, for which the printer is not responsible, will creep into the best mathematical heads. A man may spend'a large portion of his lifetime in analysing and classifying curves ’ of the third order, and still fall a victim once in a while to the transient delusion that 7 times 6 are 54. Hence we must always expect to meet with errors in our class books, and it is an object to us to know how to detect and correct them.
In the first place, remember, the fact of the answer’s being given in the book is strong primd
facie evidence in its favor. If you don’t, come out like it, the probability is that you are wrong, not the book. Reconsider the conditions, then. See if you understand them thoroughly. See if the given answer will Verify them. Try and work the problem in. several ways. Refer to the judgment of other people, who are careful and patient workers, and if you cannot make it right, devise some logical method of showing that it is wrong. Apply the redutAio ad absurdum, using the answer as one of the given quantities.
Having decided that there is an error, the next thing is to find out where it is, and what it is. It is very often a printer’s error, and then itris as likely to be in the conditions or the given numbers, as in the answer. For instance, if the answer “ comes out even,” and the given numbers won’t cancel, see if a slight change in one of the figures won’t make them cancel, and fetch the answer. If it will, it is highly probable that the figure that required changing was inserted by a “ printer’s error.”
. But some errors are made in the figuring by the author of the work himself or his assistants; and these are generally in substitutions made in complicated formulas, or tedious operations in extracting roots. Mr. H. L. Eisenman lately discovered an error of this kind in the examples given at the end of Loomis’ Analytical Geometry— an error which had gone through nineteen editions of that valuable work unperceived, or at least uncorrected. It was in the 46th example, page 272. The answer given is
$=1.4825 or—0.5209 y=10.4125 or 0.3955 while the true answer is	■	■
a:=1.4809 or—0.5194 y=l@.4O45 or 0.403 This mistake was made in extracting the square root of 2705, which occurs during the course of the operation, and which is 52.0096, not 52.096, as would bring the answer given. A cipher too little in extracting square root is an error very hard to detect, and the gentleman whose patience and diligence effected the correction is worthy of all praise.	.
Another error in this edition has been detected since by the Analytical Geometry Class, and we give the correction here, believing that the sooner errors are pointed out in standard works, like tlfose of Professor Loomis, the sooner these errors will be corrected and the value of the'works enhanced; and also thinking it right that the honor of having detected and corrected an error of long standing in such works is not small, and should be lawfully claimed by the individual, or
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
77
at least by the class, whose industry has effected the correction. Both the errors mentioned in this article are to be found in the 19th edition bearing the date of 1807; whereas the book was copyrighted in 1858.
Page 274, Ex. 63. In an ellipse whose major axis is 50 inches, the radius vector is 12 inches, and the variable angle is 36 degrees, determine the minor axis of the ellipse. Erroneous Answer, 42.47 inches.
Now this is evidently intended to bo worked out by the polar equation given in -Prop. XVI of the Ellipse. It may be done in many ways:
1st. Substitute for p and e their values in terms of A and B. The equation will then be a biquadratic of quadratic form in respect to B. This is perhaps the most direct way, but involves very high numerals.
2d. Substitute for p and e their values in terms of A and c. The equation will then be quadratic with respect to c, and the value of B may be found by multiplying (4-[-c) by (A—c), and extracting the square root of the product.
3d. Substitute for p its value in terms of A and e. The equation will then be quadratic in respect to e, from which e and B may be easily found.	.
The last was the method we took to work the example, and finding the answer -5=41.6, immediately supposed we had made some mistake in our work. A quadratic equation with an indeterminate decimal for the coefficient of the first power is a nasty thing. It is highly probable that any one would make a mistake in it* Reviewing our work, and finding no error worth noticing, we determined to abandon the polar • equation and have recourse to Trigonometry, which is shorter and works nice.
Subtracting the given radius vector (12) from the major axis, we get the other radius vector=38. The two radii vectores with that part (2c) of the major axis intercepted between the foci, form a triangle in which two sides and an angle (36°) opposite one of them are known. Whence find c, and from c find B. To our surprise and delight the value of B came out 41.6, exactly the same as out of the nasty quadratic equation.
Having, in our opinion, sufficiently verified this correction, we submit it to the mathematical public—greeting.
We subjoin a few remarks on the nature of this problem. The case in trigonometry under which it falls is that called the ambiguous case. The quadratic equations also show double roots,
and even when c is negative {A—c\(A-]-c) will be positive. Hence we might find .5=16.9, showing an ellipse of ’ much greater eccentricity than the other, in which the radii vectores meet at an obtuse angle on the circumference, and the given angle (36°) opens towards the center instead of towards the vertex, and this might .be regarded' as another solution of the problem.
But if we must regard the variable angle as beginning always from that vertex nearest the focus taken for the pole, then this second answer will not apply. For the variable angle would be 144° instead of 36° and would change the sign in the denominator of the polar equation. In fact the polar equation is really of the first degree, and -when it takes the quadratic form, as in the present problem, one of its roots must be regarded as a root of solution. This root of solution always corresponds to the supplement of the variable angle, and to the second answer obtained by trigonometry.	•
We hope that our friends may be stimulated by our success in the search after errors, which forms a pleasing variety in the great search after truth, the chief aim in all scientific investigations. All corrections of errors found in popular text-books should be not only'noted at the time, but also brought under the notice of those whose business it is to attend to them, as such errors are a source of great annoyance to the private student, and a loss of time even to those who attend classes in which they can be corrected.
We will publish in the Scholastic Year, all such corrections as are of any importance, with the name (if desired) of him whose industry has thus contributed to the public good. S.
CoHege of Sainte Croix.
Outside the walls of the great city of Paris on the north side of those long shady avenues which Mr. Hausman’s genius lately opened through the park like city of Neuilly sur Seine arise the white walls of the College of Ste Croix founded some ten or twelve years ago by Rev. Father Champeau S. S. C. ■
There a stranger hailing from America, and especially from dear old Notre Dame, finds a home and good friends. There the student who has crossed the deep ocean in order to secure in his young days a more abundant harvest in the rich field of knowledge finds sympathetic in-
78	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	
structors, men of science who are desirous to help him to carry out his designs. If we intended to give a full description of Notre Dame de Ste Croix and make our readers acquainted with its many advantages with regard to studies not only of the branches taught there but of. other branches taught by lectures in the many chairs of the capital, we would have to extend this brief sketch beyond the limits which we have traced to ourselves; all that we can say now is that the College of Ste Croix is a suitable place to a young man who wishes to perfect himself in the study of the French language and enjoy the many literary privileges which-Paris affords. Add to this that it is situated probably in the most eligible spot that can be found around Paris, only a few hundred yards from the fortifications, in the very centre of the city of Neuilly noted for its many •oillas its long avenues bor deled with double rows of trees, its many institutions colleges and academies; then the famous Bois do Boulogne whose long macadamized roads circle round Neuilly and have their issues there; and finally imagine that you are only half an hour’s drive from the Place de la Concorde which is the radiating centre of all Paris so that . although living outside of the great city you are. however, enabled to enjoy its benefits. It is at the College de Ste Croix that Very Rev. Father Sorin will reside during the winter. No doubt during that tune he will make with the Rev. Father Champeau all the arrangements which will be found necessary for receiving students from America. - This is an idea which Rev. Father Sorin has long cherished and which he will no doubt carry into execution As to the expenses which a voyage to Paris may entail, they can be reckoned from the prospectus of the steamship lines. The terms of the college of Ste Croix being paid in gold currency fully equal ours so that the cost maintained in a college of Paris or in a college of this country are very near the same. With regard to the time when a young man who can afford to spend a few yegrs in Europe should go there, we cannot give any decision on this important matter. We think however that in order to receive some real benefit from foreign teachers, a student should have gone through a good course in his country and should already be somewhat acquainted with the language spoken in the country where he desires to complete his education.	*	jBuX.lLiETrN'.
	students’ Address to Very Reverend E. Sorin, On Occasion of his departure from Notre Dame for a short stay in Stance: Very Rev. Father General.—It is with feelings of sorrow, mingled with those of veneration, love, and gratitude, that your children, the students of your own beloved Notre Dame, meet together to give you this heart-felt greeting and wish you a happy, a wry happy journey again to the sunny clime of your nativity. If you were one whose thoughts are of the glory of this world, what contemplations might well fill your breast as you return now for the first time to the home of your boyhood loaded with the highest honors of one of the great Orders of the Holy Church! But, dear Father, you are General of Holy Cross, and we know that in this world, you are pleased rather to bear the weight of the Cross, after the example of your divine Master, that, like him, you may wear the Crown of Honor and Glory in the next. It is your high privilege to bear the honors of this world and to know that they are as dross to the honors awaiting you in the But the thought that should occupy our minds now in the thought of love and gratitude. How much owe we to you, God only knows. We do know how well off we are here, but we know not what we should be were it not for the blessed training and example we have received at this Institution founded by your charity and -wisdom. Did we feel that we were bidding you good-bye for good, this would-be indeed a sad parting to us. But we do not feel so. When the pleasant spring returns again you will return with it, and thus our pleasure shall be doubled. It is this reflection that sheds a halo of happiness over the present moment. You will be with us again in the joyous spring time, and we shall prepare together to celebrate with exceeding great delight the beautiful Silver Anniversary. Ah! what bliss will be added to that happy day, when we shall see in our midst your beaming fatherly presence. It twill indeed be good for us to be there. 			—	:	_i


THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	*	79
With these bright anticipations, and wishing you a pleasant voyage, during this pleasant Indian Summer weather and under the protecting care of your blessed patron, your guardian angel our Blessed Mother, whom you love so well, and our Heavenly Father Himself in whose care we all are,	.
We remain, as ever,
Your dutiful Children,
The Students of Notre Dame.
Arrival of Students at W. I>ame.
November 2th. .
Homer Johnson, Elkhart, Ind.
November 4th.
Frank M. Curtis,	Lafayette, Ind.
Talbart S. Iddings,	“	“
James H. Falley, . “	“
Robert Beygah,	Chicago, Ill.
November 5th.
Alfred Wile,	Laporte, Ind.
Lambertis B. Logan	Cleveland, Ohio.
Tables of Honor.
For the present Week.
Senior Department
D. A. Clarke, James’Edwards, H. L. Eisenman, W. P. McClain, Wm. Hoynes, A. J. Chane, P. Fitzpatrick, Chas. Hertich, J. H. Leompte H. P. Morancy.	.
Junior Department.
J. Broderick, C. Marantett, E. Lafferty, M. McGinley, L. Hayes, F. Nicholas, R. Brouhton, V. Hackman, D. Eagan, H. Beaky.
Minim Department.
H. Fear, E. De Groof^ W. Hendricks, H. Jones, A. Phillips, M. Smyth.
Errata.—On the 60th Page of The Scholastic Year, second column, third stanza of the poem, the first line should read—
O, thus ’tis with Passion when held in control Whilst Reason refrains her and guides, ’Tis the beautiful energy nerving the soul Who triumphant in virtue abides.
St. Edward’s Literary Association.
At the literary session of this association held on Tuesday evening, Nov. 3d, the question, “ Resolved that the acquisition . of wealth and the Political prosperitiy of a nation exert a bene- ■ ficial influence on the morals of the people,” was discused by Messrs. Rogers and Eisenman on the affirmative, and by Messrs. Whyte and Curran on the negative.
The gentlemen .were well prepared to discuss the question, and so cogent and convincing were their arguments.that the Rev. President declared that it was almost imposible to render a decision.	•
, Known that their progress and final success depend almost exclusively upon their own personal exertions. The members of St, Edward’s Literary Association, have resumed their literary exercises this year with a determination of laboring strenuously, and it is a well established maxim that “Labor omnia qindt." Reporter.
BASE-BALL.
An interesting game of base-ball was played on the 4th inst. between the first nine of the Enterprise and that of the Juanita Base-ball Clubs. Both nines played remarkably well. The score is as follows:
Pos	Enterprise	।	0	R	Pos	Juanita.	0	a
p	H. Murphy.	3	4	P	W. Rhodes.	2	5
9	L. Towne.	2	4	c	S. Hibben.	2	5
lb	B. Coddington.	5	3	lb	J. Hull.	1	6
2b	C. Nunnamaker	3	5	3b	A. B. White.	3	3
3b	J. Fritz.	1	6	3b	J. Garhartstine.	5	2
s s	T. Watson.	3	3	s s	S. Ryan.	3	3
1 f	T Green.	.	4	4	If	J. Dickinson.	2	4
c f	R. Campau.	3	5	c f	J. Lane.	4	2
r f	G. Atkinson.	13	14	rf	J. O’Reilly.	5	2
Total---------- - - 27 38 Total ------------------27 32
Time of game, three hours and five minntes.
George Atkixsox, Cor. Sec’y
A match game was played on Wednesday last between the 2d nine of the Excelsior and a picked nine of the Junior Department, the game resulting in favor of the Excelsior.
Pos	Excelsior.	0	B	Pos	Picked nine.	0	
c	Trentman		5	2	c	Rehm		2	
p	Billings		1	6	p	Terrell.........	2	3
s s	O’Brian			3	8 S	English.. ...	3	5
1 b	Doherty		3	4	1 b	English				3
2 b	McGnire		1	6	2 b	Delahay... ....	3	2
3 b	Beakey		3	1	3 b	Wellington ....	2	2
I f	Arrington		5	5	1 f	Lafferty		6	1
c f	Dnnkle .1		3	4	c f	Dum ."		3	3
r f	Cochoran		4	3	r f	Morgan		3	.5
	Total		- 28	34	Total			-28	_29
9.
6. Total, 34.
0. Total, 29.
Innings, 1,	2.	3,	4,	5,	6,	7,	8,
Excelsior, 2,	0,	5,	6,	6,	5,	3,	1,
Picked nine, 4,	5,	3,	3,	12,	0,	1,	1,
Home runs—Excelsiors, 1; Picked nine, 1.
Fly catches—	“	8;	“	2.
Foul muffs—	“	4;	“	6.
Foul catches—	“6;	“4.	.
Fly muffs—	“	4;	“	6.
Passed balls—	“	.7;	“	5.	-
Umpire, W Clark. Scorers, J. Nash and J. Crevoisier.
J. C. Dohertt,
Sec’y.
80	.	*	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
^AINT ^ARY’S ^CADEMY.
Saint Many’s, November 3d, 1868. .Ajnt’rvals.
October 29th—Miss AdaDingess, Chicago, Ill;
October 30th—Miss K: Armstrong, Chicago, Ill.
'	Table of Honor, Sr.	.
Misses L. Barnett, M Ogle, E. Henry, N. Burridge, I. Byers, B. Gardner, L. Coining, C. Foote, T. Vanhorn, N. Tabor, E. Simms and M. Carraher.
Honorable Mention.
Graduating Glass: Misses V. Livingston, L. and L. Tong, A. Ewing, E. Crouch, M. Twomey, F. Hosmer, J. Hynds and. E. Longsdorf.
First Glass Senior: Misses A. Carmody, A. Mulhall, O Brady, E. Kirwan, N. Tracy, J. Dobson, F. Grimes, E. Ewing, B. Mukautz, A. Darcy, M. Johnson, M. Alexander, M. Walton, C. Davenport, M. Chouteau, L. Lewis, L. McManaman and C. Bertrand.
Second Glass: Misses M. Edwards, K Medill, S. Thomson, E. Bland, R. Rettig, L. Ingersoll, E. Lindsay, L. English, A. Byson, L. and N. Leoni, A. Carpenter, M. King, N. Sherburn, E Carr, N. Thomson, A. Heckman, T. Lafferty, L. Chouteau, K. Carpenter, W; Corby, A. Walker and T. Vanhorn.	’
Third Glass: Misses M. Tuberty, F. Butters, H. Niel, E. Plamondon, J. Cheseboro, H Higgins, E. Ruger, M. Kirwan, E. Scott, M. Sherland, K. Kent, A. Fulwiller, A. Wiley, S. Beebe, R. Joslyn and J. Stevens.
First Preparatory Glass: Misses A. Mast, S. O’Brien, A. Lyons, J. Gittihgs, M.- Foote, E. Cooney, M. Rumely, M. Cochrane, E. -Darst, J. Lonergan and C. Warner.
Second Preparatory Class: MissesH. Sprochnle, K. O’Toole, J. Davis, A. Minnie, K. Zell and K. Cline.
Third Preparatory Glass: -Misses J. Denny, C. Hoerber, M. Coffey and J. Davis.
‘ Musical Department.
Harp :
. Guitar: Miss N. Tabor. .
French.
First Glass: Misses L. and L. Tong, K Livingston and E. Longsdorf.
Second Glass: MissesM. Alexander, A. Mui- ’ hall and EL Cardenter.
Third Glass : Misses N. Leoni and L. Corning.
Second Div.: • Misses N. Tracy and M. Twomy.
German.
First Glass: Misses E. Ruger and N. Simms, Second Glass: Misses M. Johnston and E.
Henry.	-
^Drawing.-	-
Misses E. Kirwan, J. Dobson, E. Bland, M. Lassen, E. Alexander, E. Cooney, H. Heckman, A. Carpenter and L. Leoni.
Table of Honor, Jr.
Misses M. Letourneau, M. Bader, B. Meyers, B. Fensdorf, L. McNamara, L. Thomson, A. Longly, A. Byrne-and Struby.*
'	Honorable Mention.	-
First Preparatory Glass: Miss A. McKenny
Second Preparatory Class: Misses L. J ones.
A. Clark and A. Boyles.
Third Preparatory Glass: Misses A. Metzger and A. Robson.	’
First Glass Junior: . Misses J. Wilder, M.
Moon, A. Garrity and F. Taylor.
Second Glass : Misses B. Wilson and B. Henry.
Piar-o, First Class :
Second Class: Misses L. and L. Tong, M. Walton and K. Livingston.	.
Third Class: Misses K. Carpenter, B. Meyers and M. Carraher.	.
Fourth Ciass : Misses L. McNanaman, B. Meyers, M. Carraher, L. Ingersoll and L. Corning.
Harp :—M. Sherland.	'
RELIGIONS SOCIETIES.
•(Composed of the Catholic pupils.)
The Nocturnal Adoration Society •
Was organized on the eve of the Feast of the Holy Rosary. The following officers were elected:
Directress—Mother M. of Bt. Charles.
Presidents—Misses L. and L. Tong.
Vice-President—Miss E. Carr.
Secretary—Miss A. Ewing. •
Treasurer—Miss E. Ewing.
Rosary Society.
This Society held its annua! election of officers on Sunday the 4th inst. The following is the result:	•
Directress—Sister M. of St. Euphrosine:
President—Miss E. Carr.
Vice-President—Miss A. Ewing.
Secretary—Miss E. Ewing.
Treasurer—Miss A. Mulhall.
Sacristan—Miss A. ®unnea.
Children of Mary.	.
This Sodality held a meeting last Sunday for the purpose of appointing officers, pro tem. The following were selected to act till the annual election takes place:	.
Directress—Sister M. of St. Anastasia.
President—Miss L. Tong.	.
Vice-President—Miss L. Tong. •
Secretary—Miss A. Ewing.
Treasurer—Miss M. Carraher.
Sacristan—Miss C. Mulhall.