Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper 'victnrus : vive quasi eras moriturus. 1
Volume XIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 22, 1879.	Number 16-
The Rainbow of Hope.
BY ARCHBISHOP HUGHES.
[The following stanzas are from the pen of one whose memory will always be held in veneration by American Catholics—the late Archbishop Hughes. The great prelate is familiar to the present generation as one of the most vigorous prose-writers of the age; but to many it will be a revelation to learn that he occasionally paid court to the poetic muse. And yet, some of the productions of his earlier days show that be possessed poetic ability of no mean order, which, had his subsequent career but afforded him leisure to cultivate it, might have won for him distinction in a sphere different from that for which beseemed so peculiarly fitted. “The Rainbow of Hope” has been published but once, in the journal of the New York Cathedral Fair. The manuscript is still in the possession of the venerable Father McAleer, pastor of St. Columba’s Church, one of the schoolmates of the great Archbishop at Emmitsburg. Father McAleer is one of the survivors— and by no means the least distinguished one—of that heroic age of American Catholicity which has given us the Hugheses, McCloskeys, Loughlins, Purcells, and many other prominent members of the hierarchy. A ripe scholar, accomplished gentleman, and zealous priest, Notre Dame has had reason to appreciate the interest which he takes in the cause of Catholic education, as the writer of these lines has had occasion to appreciate his kindness of heart.—Ed. Scholastic.
It is Hope that creates the aurora of bliss	'
On the hills of Futurity gleaming,
To attract weary man through a bleak world like this, Where Happiness lives but in seeming.
For when man was expelled from the garden of love, While Happiness saw and forsook him,
And Innocence fled to the angels above, Hope pitied the pilgrim and took him.
The sharp-piercing thorn and the thistle are spread Where the outcast of Eden reposes,
But Hope makes the pillow so soft to his head That he slumbers—and dreams but of roses.
He awakens to woe: but she wipes off the tears That are sadly though silently stealing,
And points to a day through the vista of years, The Holy and Just One revealing.
When the rainbow appeared, dove-eyed Mercy was there To soften each hue that arrayed it,
’Twas a beacon of joy in the land of despair, But Hope was the seraph that made it.
Man wistfully gazed—and his grief-stricken heart
Was soothed into much resignation,
The tear that had gathered forgot to depart, For joy was infused through creation.
And hence while fond Hope leads us on through life’s way Tho’ still disappointed with sorrow,
We sweeten our cup of affliction to-day With the bliss we desire for to-morrow.
A Trip to Jerusalem.
Leaves from an Unpublished Journal.
(continued.1
Abdullah and two officers having ridden ahead and reached Nazareth in the afternoon, had bespoke accommodation for the party in the Monastery of the Annunciation, and here we found Abdullah with a huge black bottle of anniseed, from which he welcomed each comer with a stiff dram and promises of a good supper and bed in a short time—for which he would have got three cheers had we been anywhere else than within the walls of a monastery.
Just as our appetites were about to get the better of our patience, a smoking supper was placed on extemporised tables in the lobby; the bill of fare consisted of boiled rice and vegetables, drenched with beef gravy, boiled macaroni, baked meats and plenty of table wine, and the way we cleaned out the trenchers did really astonish the natives, and the wine was decanted in a manner which would have gladdened the heart of every vinedresser throughout the length and breadth of the land. Mattresses having been laid out on the floors of three rooms, the whole party soon sought for “ Nature’s sweet restorer.”
The rain continued during the night and for the three following days without any abatement, flooding the plains and rendering our further progress a questionable undertaking. Notwithstanding the rain, we rambled through the village and suburbs of Nazareth, and found it but another Kiaffa on a large scale. The only houses having anything like a civilized appearance were those dedicated to the service of God and those occupied by the clergy. The others were of a very primitive construction, built of the undressed stones from the hills, mud supplying the place of mortar, and covering the roof about a foot thick. The major part of the village would not bear comparison to the meanest of our out-houses at home, and being situated in a hollow of the hills, the streets during the heavy rains were like common sewers in a bad state of repair. The owners of these “ mud edifices ” looked so lazy and filthy, that
“Each, kindred brute might bid them blush for shame.”
The shops were but mere dog-kennels, and copper coinage
240
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
sufficed to liquidate the commercial transactions of their proprietors. The only silver coin, apparently, in circulation was equivalent to fifteen cents of our money, hut of such value did these coins appear in the eyes of the Naza-renes, that the married ladies of the village proclaimed the fortune they had brought their husbands by sporting the whole amount of their dowry in a chain of them worn round the face; so that, in Nazareth, the happy husbands have at one glance a comprehensive view of the better half of their earthly treasures. Mahomet’s followers were decidedly in the minority, and the principles of the Roman Catholic faith were professed by the majority of the villagers. Here, as elsewhere, the creed of the great unwashed—the rag, tag, and bobtail of the Nazarenes— consisted of one word, u Bukhsheish” which from morning till night assailed our ears at every turn. It was alike the watchword of the merchant and the catchword of the beggar, the salutation from a fellow-passenger in the street, and the valedictory request of the heathen who blacked your boots; and under the transmogrification of “Buckcheese ” became quite a byeword among the party. The word was applied to us essentially to extort charity, but its true meaning implies a present, a keepsake, or a something into the bargain.
Chapels have been erected to mark the spots where the remarkable events took place which are recorded in Sacred History, and the Chapel of the Annunciation is erected over the place where the Blessed Virgin Mary sat when the angel appeared to her, and told her she would conceive and bear a Son. It has a very plain but substantial appearance, and is situated within an inner court, on the opposite street from the monastery of the same name— and is surrounded by store-rooms and offices, occupied as the “Farmacia” and “Frateria”—Laboratory and Community rooms. The internal fittings were similar to those of the chapel on Mt. Carmel. The floors were paved with the same diamond-shaped stones, and the walls were hung with embroidered tapestry, very much faded in color, on which we could barely trace the outlines of some scriptural representations.
The altar and the organ gallery occupied nearly the whole centre of the room, leaving two alley-ways on each side. The priests and choir were distinctly heard, but entirely concealed from view, and in the unoccupied corners confessional boxes were placed, which in more western countries would have been taken for sedan chairs, so similar were they in appearance. In one of these sat an old monk with shaven crown and cowl thrown back, vehe. mently exhorting some kneeling sinner, amid the pealing of the organ and chanting of the choir. Under the altar, and immediately facing the door, a flight of steps led down to a little marble recess, divided into an upper and lower compartment by a thin slab of marble placed horizontally in the centre. The under one contains the stone on which the Blessed Virgin sat, and the upper one is fitted up as a miniature altar—the whole brilliantly lighted by wax tapers. Above the stone is the following inscription: “In hoc loco, Vebbum cabo factum est,”— “ In this place, the Word was made flesh.” The outward forms of respect observed were kneeling, kissing the stone, and making the sign of the Cross. A broken column stands at the foot of the steps, the one half pendent from the roof, and the lower still embedded in the original founds, ation. It is said to have been broken by the Turks in a fit of fanaticism. There was something impressively
grand in the rich, swelling strains of the music, and the solemn recitation of the Rosary of the Blessed Virgin, together with the sacred associations of the spot, which made one linger and dream of its ancient sanctity, thus preserved in our day, and still to be perpetuated among future generations.
The Blessed Virgin’s Well
Js about an eighth of a mile from the village. Here another chapel and also a school are erected. It is surrounded by a wall, on the outside of which the surplus water in the well finds an outlet, and here the matrons and maids still resort to draw water, which they carry away in stone jars, on their heads, balancing them with the greatest ease ; and here also the household linen is brought to be washed, and bleached on the surrounding slopes.
We next visited the Mount of Temptation—the high mount into which the devil carried Christ and showed Him all the kingdoms of the earth; and also the precipice over which the Jews intended to throw Christ when He disappeared from their midst. The latter is a flat table spot, on the side of the hill facing the plains of Esdraelon ; it would afford standing room for about 20 persons, and two flat boulders about nine inches thick, standing on end, form a sort of parapet. On looking over, a casual observer would not judge the declivity so steep or so rugged as to cause death by the fall, but on descending by a circuitous route it will be seen that a rather deep chasm has been formed, the inner side of which is so sharply perpendicular as to deceive the observer from above. It is, moreover, cut in the solid rock, and the fall could hardly fail to prove fatal. It is said to have been used as a place of execution by the Nazarenes in the olden time, for grave offences. A small ravine separates the precipice from the Mount of Temptation—a steep, rocky hill, which commands a far-extended view of the country. The plains of Esdraelon, over which we must pass to reach Jerusalem, lay beneath us,—a perfect lake, and as it would take three days for the waters to subside, we began to have some misgivings that we could prosecute our journey no further. Immediately at the foot of the precipice were still some vestiges of the ancient city of Nahal, and far away on the plains we could see the villages of Naiu, where Christ raised the widow’s son, and Endor, the residence of the noted witch. On returning, a flat rock by the side of a brook was pointed out as one of the spots where Christ fed His disciples; and on nearing Nazareth we saw a beautiful instance of “ the sheep knowing the voice of the shepherd.” The shepherd stood on a high rock in view of his whole flock, and giving a clear, ringing “ purr,” the most distant of the flock pricked up their ears and began to rejoin the main body. .
Cana of Galilee is a small village about five miles distant from Nazareth; but from the bad state of the roads, and the unceasing rain, the distance appeared much longer, and was altogether a very uncomfortable journey. A chapel, similar in appearance to that of Nazareth, is built near, and the ruins of a chapel still stands over the spot where the marriage ceremony was performed, and the fountain from which the water was procured is still to be seen about 200 yards in the rear.
On our return to Nazareth, we were told that the officers had made up their minds to return to Kiaffa as soon a8 the country was passable,—which was, of course, to the whole party, very mortifying intelligence. Some vented their spleen on Abdullah—who, they thought, kept us in
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	241
ignorance of other roads in order to make money by detaining us, but he tritely answered: “It was the work of - God,” and beyond his ability to further our progress.
/ However, a party was got up to visit Mt. Thabor—the Mount of the Transfiguration—which is distant about eight miles from Nazareth, and after a rough two hours’ ride we found ourselves at its foot. It is a rugged, steep, cone-shaped hill; the ascent was by a mere bridle-path, which at some places lay close to the edge of precipitous steeps; but the horses were accustomed to such paths, and trudged along with all the ease and surefootedness of accomplished mountaineers. On reaching the summit,:the splendid view of the country around well repaid the fatigue and danger of our journey. Spread out like a map at our feet were some of the most interesting localities in the land. Here on this very mount had the voice of God Himself proclaimed, “ This is My beloved Son in whom I am well pleased.- hear ye Him,” and all the country within the circuit of our vision had been consecrated by the footsteps of our Saviour. At about a distance of seven miles stood the Alons Beatitudinum, or Mount of the Beatitudes, where Christ preached the famous “ Sermon on the Mount.” It seemed formed by nature for such a purpose, and was the most appropriate of all the hills around for collecting and addressing a multitude—the summit being of platform shape, and around it the table-top of the
, mountain would afford standing room for thousands. Here also, during the wars of the Crusades, the Christians fought one of their bloodiest battles with the Saracens under Saladin. Towering within a short distance was Mt. Gilboa, where Saul committed suicide after his defeat. Behind us was the Sea of Galilee and the head waters of the Jordan, the cliff in the country of the Gadarenes— the steep place from which the herd of swine possessed with the devils were precipitated into the sea—and, stretching far away on the plains, the ancient city of Jezrael. It was amidst these localities that Christianity first dawned upon a benighted world; here it was that our Saviour first taught the principles of the Christian faith, illuminating them by His miracles, and illustrating them by His daily conduct and conversation. Here first had shone that light whose refulgent rays had dazzled all nations. From this arena, civilization may be said to have commenced its march, sowing broadcast over the earth science, art knowledge, peace and good will to men—and with what enraptured interest did we contemplate the whole landscape within our view, and stamp it indelibly on our minds! The whole party dismounting, one of the officers H-------, offered up a prayer of thanksgiving, which found a corroborative echo in every heart.
/ (TO BE CONTINUED.)
Nicholas Rowe.
The age which followed the Restoration was very fertile in dramatists, and the subject of our sketch was certainly mot the least distinguished among them. Nicholas Rowe was born in 1673. He received the first rudiments of his education at Highgate, and was subsequently transferred to Westminster School, where he acquired a thorough knowledge of the Greek and Latin languages. At the age of sixteen, his father, who was himself a member of the legal profession, entered him as a student in the Middle Temple, with the view of having him prosecute the study of the law under his own immediate supervision. Un
fortunately for the success of the worthy barrister’s plan, the future poet failed to develop the slightest trace of vocation or inclination for legal studies.
Rowe was, however, called to the bar, and there lay before him in that profession great prospects of advancement, but the drift of his genius tended in another direction. “The poet born” seems ever irresistibly driven to sing.
Young Rowe found more delight and charms in Euripides, Sophocles and jEschylus than in the, to him, musty parchments and crude legal records of antiquity. The beauties of Shakespeare and Mi’ton so deeply impressed him as to inspire him with an aversion for everything but the enchantments of poetry and the drama. In abandoning the profession of the law he relinquished bright prospects, for he had in the person of Sir George Treby, Lord Chief Justice of Common Pleas, a patron who was able and willing to further his advancement.
The first dramatic effort of our author was “ The Ambitious Stepmother,” which he produced when only twenty-five years of age. It is remarkable that in no other of his plays does he display so much elevation of thought and’ sentiment. It has much fire and energy, yet it seems to lack that admirable judgment displayed in all his other works. This same play called from Mr. Wellwood a high eulogium. “ The purity of the language,” he says, “the justness of his characters, the noble elevation of the sentiments were all of them admirably adapted to the stage.” His next tragedy was “Tameriane,” in which he aimed at a parallel between King William and Tamerlane, between whom no very striking resemblance can be detected by many in our day. The glorious ambition of Tamerlane to break asunder the chains of enslaved nations and to free mankind from the encroachments of lawless power, are painted in colors the most lively, and at the same time most amiable.
The following year, 1703, appeared one of the most finished of his performances. The domestic nature of the plot, and the harmonious language in which it is developed, give to this play a charm which causes it to be retained on the stage even to the present day. “The Fair Penitent ” was dedicated to the Duchess of Ormond. The character of Sciolto is strongly marked, and the amiability of Horatio is not less forcibly portrayed. Another of his plays, which has now disappeared, is “ Ulysses.” It is to be regretted that we have lost this, as, to judge from the comments it excited, it conveys a moral extremely suitable at the present day. The admirable example of conjugal fidelity of Penelope would bring a blush to the face of many who have, in addition to that contract, so inviolably sacred, received also a Sacrament. The same year he turned his attention to writing comedy, but his muse was not “comic.” “The Biter,” a comedy in three acts, was received unfavorably by everybody but himself. “The Royal Convert,” is taken from dark and barbarous times; the scene is laid among our ancestors. Rhodogune, the hero, is a character highly tragical. In him we find a mind which, though vicious, had in it the elements of true heroism, had it been formed to virtue. • The plan of “ Jane Shore ” is regular, and in that sense it does not partake of the weirdness of Shakespeare, whose style he intended to imitate; the uniformity of the poetry marks it as his own. The excellency of Shakespeare does not consist in soft language or descriptions, but in the general power of his drama, the boldness of his images, and the force of his characters.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The last plays of Mr. Rowe were “ Lady Jane Grey ” and “Phaedra and Hippolitus.” The latter is a play almost devoid of passion, but the versification to some extent makes up for this defect. In this respect it is inimitable. In the words of a modern poet, we may say of it that “not the character but the poet speaks.” As an example of the versification of the dramas of Rowe, we may reproduce a few verses of a classical imitation as a specimen of his style. It is a translation from the third book of Horace, and exhibits much ability.
“Hail, gentle cask whose venerable head
With hoary down and ancient dust o’erspread Proclaims that since the vine first brought thee forth Old age has added to thy worth.
• Whether the sprightly juice thou dost contain Thy votaries will to wit and love, Or senseless noise and lewdness move, Or sleep, the cure of these and every other pain.
The wretch who pressed beneath a load of cares, And lab’ring with continual woes despairs, If thy kind warmth does his chill’d sense invade From earth he rears his drooping head.
Revived by thee he ceases now to mourn. His flying cares give way to haste, And to the god resigns his breast
Where hopes of better days and better things return.”
Rowe also published an edition of the works of Shakespeare to which he prefixed a life in which be shows much erudition and research. Some time after he added to this edition a preface. He deserves much credit also for his translation in verse of Quillet’s “ Callipaedia” and Lucan’s “ Pharasalia.” For three years under the Duke of Queens-bury he held the office of Secretary of State. At the death of his patron he gave up the office and devoted the remainder of his time to literature. An anecdote ts related of this period of his life which it may not be uninteresting to mention. He waited on the Earl of Oxford one day, and was asked if he understood Spanish? He answered in the negative, but assured the Earl that in a short time he would be able to understand and speak it. Of course he thought he was going to be named for some office. He retired into solitude, and in a few months returned giving an account of his diligence. His lordship now asked him if he knew it thoroughly, and received an answer in the affirmative. “ How happy you are,” said he, “ that can enjoy the pleasure of reading ‘Don Quixote’ in the original! ”
On the accession to the crown of George I he was made poet laureate, and one of the collectors of the customs of the port of London. In the succeeding reign he held the position of clerk of his Majesty’s council, and secretary of the presentation.
Mr. Rowe was twice married. By his first wife he had a son, and by the second a daughter. He died at the age of forty-five, on the 6th Dec., 1718, and was interred in Westminster Abbey, close to the tomb of Chaucer. A splendid monument was afterwards erected to his memory by his wife, for which Pope wrote the following epitaph:
“Thy relics, Rowe! to this sad shrine we trust, And near thy Shakespeare place thy honored bust; Oh! next him skilled to draw the tender tear, For never heart felt passion more sincere;
To nobler sentiment, to fire the brave, For never Briton more disdain’d a slave. Peace to thy gentle shade, and endless rest I Blest in thy genius, in thy love too blest!
And blest that timely from our scene remov’d Thy soul enjoyed the liberty it lov’d.
To these so mourn’d in death, so loved in life,
The childless parent and the widow’d wife, With tears inscribe this monumental stone That holds their ashes and expect their own.”
' P. J. M.
A Trio of Illustrious Soldiers and Statesmen.
General Firmin A. Rozier, of St. Genevieve, Mo., lately read before the St. Louis Historical Society an interesting paper, from which we take a brief extract that we deemed would be interesting to many readers of the Scholastic. General Rozier’s paper was published in full in the St. Louis Republican, and the extract to which we allude was reproduced in that live and spicy newspaper, the Burlington Hawk-Eye, with display headings and editorial comment. Notre Dame has, we believe, no truer friend living to-day than General A. C. Dodge, one of the heroes of the sketch, and the students of former years have more than once had the pleasure of hearing the old war-horse and eminent senatorial orator at the annual commencement exercises here. We believe Notre Dame has also the honor of the acquaintance, and perhaps friendship, of Senator Jones, of Dubuque, one of the four eminent men mentioned by General Rozier.
SENATOR GEORGE W. JONES.
George W. Jones was born at Vincennes, Indiana, April 14, 1804. He removed to St; Genevieve about the year 1826. Senator Jones married at St. Genevieve a Miss Josephine Gregoire, a descendant of an old and respectable French family who had settled in Upper Louisiana in early times. Latterly, at Dubuque, on the 7th of January, 1879, he celebrated the fiftieth anniversary, or golden wedding, surrounded by numerous friends and relatives. Senator Jones was educated for the profession of law. He was appointed clerk of the U. S. District Court of Missouri, and afterwards served as aide-de-camp to General Dodge in the Black Hawk war, became a colonel, and afterward general of militia. In 1830 he removed to Iowa, which was then part of Michigan. In 1835 he was elected delegate to Congress from the Territory of Michigan. In 1839 he was appointed by President Van Buren Surveyor-General of the Northwest Territory. He was removed in 1841 for political reasons, but reinstated by Polk in 1845, and held the office until 1846, when the State of Iowa was admitted into the Union. In 1848 George W. Jones was elected United States Senator and served faithfully and honorably until 1859. He was appointed Minister to Bogota (United States of Columbia) and served in that capacity till 1861. During the late civil war, on his return to the United States he was arrested and imprisoned in Fort Lafayette on an unwarranted charge of disloyalty. Senator Jones is still living, and has reached a ripe age. He is affable in his manners, devoted to his friends and people, and possesses all the courage and chivalry of the early inhabitants of the West.
GOV. HENRY DODGE
was born at Vincennes, Ind., in the year 1782, whilst his family was removing to the town of St. Genevieve. Gov. James Wilkinson, of Upper Louisiana, appointed him sheriff of the St. Genevieve district. This was the first office Gov. Dodge had filled, and he acted in that capacity some fifteen years. During the war of 1812 he raised at St. Genevieve a mounted rifle company destined for the protec
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
243
tion of the inhabitants against the Indian depredations in the then Territory of Missouri, and was afterwards major of the territorial militia, and served until the year 1814. He further continued in the military service with the rank of lieutenant-colonel, and commanded an expedition up the Missouri River against the Indians. In the year 1832 he was commissioned Major of the United States Rangers, and on tbe 4th of March, 1833, was promoted Colonel of the first United States Dragoons. In the Black Hawk war he served with distinction and courage. When the Territory of Wisconsin was organized, President Jackson appointed Col. Dodge its Governor, and he continued its Governor until 1841.
Governor Dodge was elected delegate to Congress from Wisconsin and served in that capacity until 1845. He was again in 1844 appointed governor of that territory until 1847. When Wisconsin was admitted as a State he was elected United States Senator, and in 1851 was re-elected Senator until 1857. Governor Dodge was in figure tall, strong and muscular, of dignified deportment, and a bold and brave man. For half a century be served his country in various capacities with distinction and usefulness. His life and character in the civil and military fields has become a part of the history of the West. Governor Henry Dodge died the 19 th of June, 1867, much regretted by the people; he died and was buried west of the Mississippi—at Burlington, Iowa.
AUGUSTUS C. DODGE, his son, was born June 2, 1812, in the town of St. Genevieve, Mo. He is a tall, well formed person, stands erect, and bears the character of a courteous gentleman, and is remarkable for .sobriety and punctuality in his relations with mankind. In boyhood he aided his father in different occupations. He married a Miss Clara Hertick, a daughter of Professor Joseph Hertick, who had established an educational academy in St. Genevieve County about the year 1820; he was a native of Switzerland, a ripe scholar and taught the French, German and English languages. Senator Dodge after his marriage removed to Iowa, where, in a short time, he gained the confidence and esteem of the people by his integrity and generous impulses. He represented Iowa as a delegate to Congress from 1840 to 1848. Senator Dodge acquired reputation for close attention to his public duties and devotion to the interests of his constituents. The Legislature of Iowa elected him United States Senator, and he served in that capacity from 1848 to 1855. At the same period could be witnessed the two Dodges, father and son, occupying seats in.the Senate, representing two sister States, Wisconsin and Iowa, united by blood and advocating the same principles, as in the case of the two Adamses. What a remarkable coincidence and beautiful spectacle presented to tbe statesmen of the world! It forces us back to the pages of Grecian and Roman history for examples, and illustrations of this character.
When Senator Augustus C. Dodge’s term in the Senate of the United States expired, he was appointed Minister to Spain, and in that capacity served his country well, and especially in arranging the troubles arising out of the seizure by Spain of the steamer Black Warrior. He was the first Minister to Spain that addressed the court in the Spanish language, in his valedictory address to Queen Isabella. Senator Dodge is yet strong, active, and a vigorous man, and still resides at Burlington, Iowa. It was but a few days ago he was visiting the scenes of his boyhood, and receiving the congratulations of his relatives and friends.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Anthony Trollope, who recently published a small volume on Ctesar, is said to be engaged on a more elaborate work, with Cicero for subject.
—Poe’s preceptor, Prof. Clarke of Baltimore, now 93 years of age, describes the poet while his pupil at Richmond, in 1820, as “ a boy with very pretty eyes and hair, and rather an effeminate face.”
—Mr. George Augustus Sala received a thousand pounds on leaving England, fcr his volume of American travels, and will receive another thousand on its announcement. He has been offered the seat-in Parliament for Brighton at the
next election, but, like his friend Dickens, he has no political ambition.
—The late Bayard Taylor, writing before Victor Emmanuel’s seizure of Rome, said: “The city of Rome has more free public schools than New York, in proportion to her population, and what is still better, a larger proportion of children attend them.”
—The death of Mgr. Gaume, who long ago attained a world-wide celebrity on account of the many excellent works that came from his pen, took place in Paris, on the 19th of November. Mgr. Gaume had been totally blind for some years, but nevertheless continued his literary labors. Requiescat in pace!
—The London World says that the reason why express search has been ordered to be made in Zululand for the Prince Imperial’s watch is that, attached to the chain, his highness wore that relic—a fragment of the true Cross— which belonged to Charlemagne, came into the hands of the first Napoleon, and was always worn by the late Emperor.
—The Board of Directors of the Musical Protective Union came to the conclusion last Friday that the musicians of the Fifth Avenue Theatre could play for the terms originally agreed upon, “ as ‘ Pinafore ’ was not a comic opera, but merely a musical extravaganza.” One man, styling himself a musician, thought “Pinafore” to be nothing more than an English “ Mulligan Guard Chowder.” The Union thus beats a disgraceful retreat, after stirring up rebellion against a manager, with such an asinine excuse for their reprehensible conduct.—American Art Journal.
—We learn from the American Art Journal that the twenty-three compositions sent in to compete for the prize of $1000 offered by the Musical Festival Association are already in the hands of the judges. According to the terms of the circular, announcing the competition, the names of the authors are as yet a profound secret. The competition was confined to a work for solos, orchestra and chorus, which should last at least half an hour. There was no prescription as to style, contents, or choice of subjects, and a great variety has been found in these particulars. Among the titles we notice “ The Bells,” adapted to Poe’s poem, and “ The Golden Legend,” a cantata after Longfellow.
—A new edition of the “ Lyra Apostolica ”—a collection of poems, by Cardinal Newman and a few friends—first published more than forty years ago, has recently been issued. These poems were written under peculiar circumstances, as related by the Cardinal himself, in his “ Apologia.” Of the 179 poems in the volume, nearly two-thirds are by Cardinal Newman; Richard Hurrell Froude, his inseparable friend and associate, wrote eight, and upwards of fifty are from the pen of John Keble. In the preface to the new edition, the Cardinal says that the “ Lyra ” and the “ Tracts for the Times ” had a common object, that of enforcing “what the authors considered to be primitive and Apostolic Christianity at a time when its principles, doctrines, disciplinejusages and spirit seemed in the length and breadth of the Anglican communion to be well-nigh forgotten.”
—Two volumes containing nearly a thousand pages of Charles Dickens’s correspondence, have recently been published. By many admirers of the novelist’s unquestionable genius, the publication of these letters will be greatly deplored. It is claimed that they will materially lower the estimate in which Dickens has hitherto been held as a man. One reviewer says of them that they are devoid of loftiness, idealism, or disinterestedness, and show only a selfish, narrow, and petulant character. Many of them are especially offensive to Americans, since they afford new evidence—if any were needed—that while enjoying to the full the hospitality lavished upon him on this side of the Atlantic, he was privately reviling and belittling his hosts. A narrow, abusive, coarse and selfish spirit seems to pervade the whole correspondence. “He is occasionally affectionate, in a formal and stiff way, to thosejwho belong to him, and he is polite enough to the few friends who do him favors; but all the time he is petty, waspish, dissatisfied and querulous.” As these letters are edited by Dickens’s sister in-law and his eldest daughter, the responsibility of lowering the estimate in which he hqs hitherto been held will rest with them.
244	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Scientific Notes.
—Mr. Edison’s electric-light machine is said to be perfected at last. Heretofore we have refrained from making more than a passing record of the rumors concerning Mr. Edison’s progress with his electric machinery, but the following from the New York Sun gives some assurance of his success:
If the inventor’s prophecies are fulfilled, it is very safe to say that of all the Christmas festivals next month, not one will command such universal attention as that which is to be held in Menlo Park, N. J. Then is promised that Ions-looked-for achievement of science, the economical subdivision of the electric light. On Christmas eve the “Wizaid of Menlo Park,” Thomas A. Edison, will illuminate all the buildings in the modest Ji tie hamlet in which he lives and works. To that end wires have been run from house to house, and connected thence with his laboratory. The illumination will be by means of what might be called electric jets, but which, more properly speaking, are small spirals of platinum and iridium in a state of incandescence in a vacuum. The dynamo-electric machines, whence the current is generated, are already set up in the laboratory. One of these, having a power of forty horses, will generate sufficient electricity for one hundred and sixty lights, each of 16-candle power, which is the measurement of electric intensity. That is to say, the extraordinary phenomenon may be seen on Christmas day in Menlo Park of electric lights toned down to the intensity of gas jets. In a few days Mr. Edison will begin the task of affixing the jets, so called, upon the gasburners in the several houses. Instead of running the wires that are to transmit the current through the gas pipes, as it is his intention to do shortly in this city, for tnis occasion he will lay the wires along the pipes.
“ I shall send invitations far and wide,” said Mr. Edison, last Wednesday, “ in order that all may see that what has been considered as visionary and impossible has been accomplished. The thing is done. I have protected it in this country and every considerable country in Europe. That is to say, there are only a few unimportant parts of Europe yet remaining uncovered, and these will be so before the advent of the holidays. You ask me if I can compete with carbureted hydrogen gas. Let the gas companies reduce their price, and then reduce it again, for it is well known they can still do this and make money, and I can undersell them and make a large profit.”
The methods and steps by which Mr. Edison claims to have accomplished the undertaking that had its inception in the electric shops in Ansonia, Conn., is now for the first time made public.
When Mr. Edison received from Ansonia the Wallace dynamo-electric machine, or the telemachon, as Mr. Wallace calls it, he at once began his experiments. The amount of power he recovered in the second machine was so incommensurate with the original power applied to the first machine, and transmitted by a wire, that both machines were cast aside. Then Mr. Edison experimented upon the Gramme, the Brush, and the Siemens machines. These were better, but still the loss of power was excessive. Mr. Edison at once left the beaten track upon which scientists have been toiling for years with unvarying results, and struck out into fields altogether new. Instead of exciting the field magnet by the current from the armature, Mr. Edison charges the field magnet by means of a separate machine. The batteries of these generators are charged by means of a Faradic machine. It does not require more than a minute to charge the immense magnets. The internal resistance of the armature is only one half ohm
Mr. Edison’s new generator differs essentially from the Gramme, Siemens, Brush, and Wallace machines. The field magnets are about fifty-four inches high, and weigh one thousand pounds. The magnet cores are of wrought iron. They are six inches in diameter, and thirty-six inches long. They are mounted upon heavy east-iron blocks, ten and one half inches high and nine inches wide, and are connected at the top by a wrought-iron yoke six inches high and seven inches wide. The cores are wound with three layers of No. 10 cotton-covered wire, the ends of which are connected with binding-posts the base of the machine. The two blocks upon which the cores rest, as well as the bearings of the armature, are supported by a cross-shaped brass casting.
The armature, revolving in a cylindrical space between the poles of the field magnet, consists of a wooden cylinder mounted on a 1%-inch shaft, and having attached to its ends soft iron plates, between which are several layers of No. 20 soft iron wire wound circumferentially. Outside of the iron disks there are vulcanized fibre disks having their peripheries notched to receive the several coils of insulated wire wound lengthwise on the cylinder and connected with the copper bars of the commutator cylinder. The field magnet is charged by the aid of a separate machine.
Thus, as it may be seen, Mr. Edison began at the foundation. At first he hoped that the machines already in the market would at least furnish him with sufficient power, and he so ex
pressed himself at the time. His hope proved fallacious. The loss of power was altogether too great for economy. In his new machine Mr. Edison says he recovers 65 per cent, on his second machine of the power applied at the first.
After completing his dynamo machine, Mr. Edison began to work upon his electrometer, for without some kind of a measure he could not tell how much of the electric current was expended at any one point This was soon done. For nearly eight months he has been experimenting upon the little contrivance that is to furnish the light. First it was made to consist of a small platinum spiral without coverin g. This would not do, because after the current has been withdrawn oxidation to a greater or less degree set in. Then he made a composition, with lime as a base, and with this he covered the spiral. It was transparent, but had defects. Finally he hit upon the ex; edient of completely covering the platinum with a small glass globe filled with oxygen gas. The globe being air-tight there could of course be no-combustion. This gave the inventor great satisfaction, but still he experimented, and found that the gas was unnecessary and troublesome in charging, and he rejected it, but retained the sealed globe. Then came the difficulty of preventing the intensity of the current from fusing the platinum. This problem, which has puzzled electricians ever since the first experiments in this direction was met. A solution was found, after great labor and almost innumerable experiments, by an ingenious device. It is well known that the fusing point of platinum is greater than any other metal. That is to say, if the temperature be raised about a series of metals, each piece of which is of the same size, the platinum will go last; but a heavy piece of brass, for instance, will staud a greater heat than a piece of platinum one-twentieth its size. This knowledge was made use of by Mr. Edison In each globe he places a block of brass.
Platinum is very expensive now, an ounce costing in the market between §7 and $8. Nevertheless the spirals, which furnish the illumination through incandescence, are so small that it is thought they will not cost more than fifty cents apiece. The company propose, however, to make the fixtures part of their plan. Platinum, which comes almost exclusively from Russia, is said to be monopolized by two English firms, who fix the price to suit them. Mr. Edison has had pieces of native ore shown him that was mined in the West, but no considerable quantity has been found.
Exchanges.
—The Harp for December is a more than unusually interesting numper; in fact, The Harp has of late shown signs of a gradual and marked improvement. The new departments of “Notes and Comments” and “Chit-Chat” add much to the interest of the magazine. The Harp is published by John Gillies, ^160 St. Peter St., Montreal, at §1 a year. J
—The holiday number of Church's Musical Visitor— which is a superb one—is introduced by a page of music, a Christmas piece, from Arthur Sullivan, of “Pinafore” fame, entith d * U;1 n r>n S’n.CI >1 E • th.” The words are appropriate aud beautiiul, aud we have no doubt the music is in keeping with them. This is followed by a finely written poem—“ A Christmas Idyl,” by Eben E. Rexford, and a page of portraits of five of the most eminent tone-poets—Weber, Mozart, Haydn, Beethoven, and Gluck. So much for introduction, after which comes the regular matter of the Visitor, fifteen pages of contributions on various subjects relating to music, musical chitchat, etc., followed by thirteen pages of music—all under a chaste and handsomely engraved cover. The subscription price of the Musical Visitor is §1.50 a year.
—The. University, the new paper started at the University of Michigan, the first number of which has reached us, purposes to be the medium or organ of the professional students of that institution. The Laws are represented in its editorial corps by Messrs. A. J. Babcock and Chas C. Black; the Medics, by J. 8. Johnson and C. J. Thomas; the Pharmics, by R. S. McCulloch and C. D. Lord; and' the Dentals, by W. S. Whisler and H. De Puy. In size and general make-up, the new paper is much like Ihe Chronicle, and the first number evinces high literary culture on the partof theeditorsand contributors. Wedonotseeauy material difference in the two papers except that, perhaps, The Chronicle is of a more general literary character than the new venture; however, we presume The University will soon assume a more distinctly professional character, as it becomes known and patronized by those for whom it is
't
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
24R
especially intended. The University of Michigan should give two monthly papers a handsome support, and will do so if the students are true to their own interests. The new paper gives a field for literary labor to many who perhaps could not obtain space in the older one.
f ‘	New Publications.
; ___________________________________
—Two new books from the Catholic Publication So,	ciety Co. came to hand too late for notice this week;
'	namely, the story of “ Pearl,” by Miss Kathleen O’Meara,
and a collection of “Five Minute-Sermons,” by the Paulist
I Fathers.
*	—We have received from that indefatigable composer,
Prof. Singenberger, a pamphlet of new music, namely, “ The - Four Antiphons of the Blessed Virgin,” under a neat blue cover. The arrangement, as explained on the cover, for two or three voices—soprano, alto and basso “ad libitum,"— , would be a contradiction in terms. It should have been written soprano and alto, with basso ad lib. There is an accompaniment for organ or melodeon. The pieces are not difficult, are of a smooth and mellifluent character, '*■ and their special arrangement will make them very acceptable in two places usually difficultto accommodate—namely, , choirs composed exclusively of females, and boy choirs, as '	- well as being adapted to mixed choirs. This of itself
shows much tact on the composer’s part, and that he un-
•. derstands the wants that most need supplying. For this . we feel sure he will have the thanks of many. The collection is for sale in New York, by Pustet and Fischer, in Chicago by Muhlbauer & Behrle, in St. Louis by Herder, (i,h and in Milwaukee by Rohlfing & Co.
College Gossip.
I	—Harvard has a bycicle club.
—Oberlin has a new telegraph department.
—Bates College has a floating debt of $56,000.
r ,	—Roanoke College has lately received a legacy of $10,000.
—Card-playing and the use of tobacco are forbidden at r Oberlin.
—Two hundred of the two hundred and fifty colleges in this country publish papers.
'	—Rutgers has conferred the degree of Ph. D. on T. A.
Edison, the inventor.—Queen's College Journals
■	—Prof. Von Holst, of Freiburg, Germany, declines the
. invitation to the chair of History at Johns Hopkins University.
k —“Sic transit gloria Monday,” as the president said when the Seniors scored five flunks out of a possible nine. —Brunonian.
—“ The University of Michigan purposes to start a daily.”
—Ariel. Journalistic efforts over-estimated, that’s all.— ! The University.
—A Columbia Senior posted on the bulletin board a r notice offering for sale a set of Junior text-books “very I	little used." Ahem!
*	—It is with great sorrow that we are told of the death of
Rev. John O’Brien, a professor in St. Mary’s College, Em-t mittsburg, Md., the author of “ The History of the Mass.” Bequiescat in pace !
—We learn from the Queen's College Journal that The Tyro, Woodstock, Ont., and the McGill Gazette, have both ► “gone up Salt Creek” for want of support. It is only a short time since the Packer and (Estrus suspended.
—The result of broken down tissues partly dried up is technically known [among medics] as a caput mortuum, or dead-head. Are the living “dead-heads” the results of "( broken down humanity partly dried up?—Queen's College Journal.
—They are about to elect a new Chancellor at Queen’s. Those who are directly interested present the claims of < their favorite men in the college paper in pretty much the same way that political candidates are held up in the „ - United states.
—The junior class congratulate themselves on the fact that 1881 reads the same forward and backward. But gentlemen, gentlemen, don’t you know that it is only among the very lowest orders that no head-end is distinguishable? —Brunonian.
There was once a Freshman quite meek, Who vowed he would not study Greek;
So he scraped up some money and purchased a pony, Which he exercised three times a week.
—Columbia Spectator.
—We understand that some of the students at Columbia College are making efforts to have French and German introduced in the curriculum of that institution. As both these languages are among the elective studies at Notre Dame, and placed at a merely nominal charge, we hope students will avail themselves of the opportunities afforded them.
—The students of the University of Michigan who were arrested during the recent trouble at the post-office are going to prosecute the city authorities for false imprisonment. As a bitter feeling exists between the students and some of the city authorities, it is better, perhaps, that a legal decision should be given. Messrs. Walker and Kent have agreed to conduct the trial for the students.
—We learn from the Georgetown College Journal that the venerable Prof. Joseph H. Clarke, of Baltimore (the same who was for a time the preceptor to the unfortunate, but gifted Edgar A. Poe,) who entered Georgetown in 1804,' is about to celebrate his 89th birthday. The venerable professor fell down a flight of steps not long since, but does not seem to have minded it, and walks to Mass every morning as usual.
—The Acta Columbiana, with which we have not the honor of exchanging, but which is spoken of in very flattering terms by the college press, strongly discountenances co-education, and keeps up a warm discussion with the Faculty about the matter. The Acta men have, in our opinion, a level head. On general principles, we would not have a sister of ours mingling in class with young men who were perfect strangers to her, and with whose character she was not acquainted. The Oberlin Beoiew gives in its last number a page of quotations on co-educatton from the college press which in the main are strongly opposed to the innovation.
—The Chronicle for December is, as usual, crammed with college news, but literature is not neglected. Among the contributed pieces is an account of “A Trip to Brazil,” that we hope will prove instructive and interesting; as one of ourselves has been over the ground, we will take unusual interest in it. “A Day in Concord” is a very pleasant description of a visit to the home of Hawthorne the novelist, and Emerson, the transcendental philosopher, who, as the writer well remarks, when on the verge of the grave, has “ no word of consolation for the present and of hope for the future, to speak to his disciples, more assuring and more cheering than was spoken upwards of two thousand years ago by the sage of Athens, as a farewell to his friends.”
Society Notes.
—The 15th regular meeting of the St. Edward Literary Club was held on Wednesday, Dec. 17th. L. Brehmer and W. Fitzpatrick read essays. Declamations were delivered by M. Buchmeire and T. O’Hara.
—The 20th regular meeting of the Sodality of the Blessed Virgin Mary was held Wednesday. Visitors present were: Rev. Father Condon and Messers. A. M. Kirch, and T. McNamara, C. S. C. Essays were read by A. Spangler, C. Brehmer and T. Victory. Rev. Father Condon favored the Sodality with an excellent and instructive discourse.
—A very interesting meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held in Columbian Hall, on Tuesday evening 16 inst. Rev. Father Condon honored the Society with his presence. The debate, “Resolved, That Irish Nationality is not virtually dead,” was ably conducted by Mr. J. Brice on the affirmative, and Mr. Bums on the negative. Mr. Wathan read an essay upon the merits of which he was elected a member of the Club.
246
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, December 22, 1879.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thirteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Liter ary Gossip of the day. •
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.	’
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, 1-50 Per Annum, Postpaid..
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—It has sometimes been said that good music is not sufficiently appreciated at Notre Dame. We do not know what foundation there may have been for this charge in the past, but when we are priviliged to hear a really fine piece—as, for example, the Overture by the University Quartette at the last exhibition—there are very few who show any lack of appreciation for it.
—A copy of Maurice F. Egan’s promised book of poems, the proceeds of which the author has been generous enough to devote to the rebuilding of the University of Notre Dame, comes to hand as our first pages are making ready for the press, and we open them in order to announce its reception. We hope to be able to present a more extended notice in our next issue. “ Preludes ” is a very handsome volume of 96 pages, 12mo., printed from clear type on plate paper, is neatly bound, and, altogether, reflects infinite credit on the publishers, Peter F. Cunningham & Son, of 817 Arch St., Phila. The price, we understand, is $1. This is the handsomest book we have seen lately, and is very suitable for a Christmas or New Years’ gift. Send for a copy.
A Time Honored Custom.
Among the various customs of merry Christmas there is one in which the boys take particular pleasure, and of which we would speak. It is that of striving, upon meeting a friend or companion, to salute him with the expression “ Christmas gift” before he is able to do the same, and thereby, as the custom prescribes, to become entitled to some little gift from him. The custom probably derives its origin from the fact that gifts are supposed to be plentiful on this day, and it serves besides to keep every one lively to see who can ” catch ” the other. Now, the Scholastic likes to assist in
keeping up these good old customs, and knowing that a great number of our boys will be far away from us upon the day itself,we find ourselves forced to anticipate the time a little, in order to “ catch ” them. Therefore, to those leaving, we would most vociferously exclaim “ Christmas gift! ” and if you'would like a suggestion.of what will be an appropriate gift, we would say, let each bring back some new subscribers; these-can be secured among your friends without a great deal of exertion, and will be a valuable present to us. We do not, however, desire to appear greedy in the least; and, therefore, to show that your efforts will be appreciated by us, we shall have waiting for the one who brings us the longest list, a handsome present, and one which we know the recipient will consider a full reward for his endeavors.
The Lecture.
A lecture was delivered in Phelan Hall on Saturday evening, Dec. 13th, on the subject of electro-magnetism. The lecturer after a few general remarks on electricity and magnetism, briefly alluded to Oersted’s discovery, and called attention to a few of the remarkable consequences by which it had been followed. A comparison was then instituted between some of the most powerful electro-magnets that have as yet been made, and the rank to which the monster magnet lately added to the Cabinet of Physics is entitled was assigned. Many experiments were made illustrating the subject; nails, iron filings, horse-shoes, etc., were for a time in active demand, and many of the younger members of the audience received happiness enough to last till the Christmas holidays by having their pocket-knives magnetized. The most interesting feature of the lecture was, of course, the experiments, tending to show the great power of the “ big magnet.” The fruitless efforts of two robust Seniors, armed with a crow-bar, to remove the armature, excited great hilarity, which was in no way diminished by the strenuous exertions of two equally-bodied Juniors to force a bar of iron between the poles of the magnet. At the close, the lecturer was greeted with prolonged applause. At the next scientific entertainment a more powerful battery will be used, when it is expected that experiments even more interesting will be performed.


Christmas.
Time in its revolving course has led us on through the varied scenes and incidents, with all their accompanying joys and sorrows, of another year almost complete. The last fading year, however, seems to stop as it realizes its fast approaching end, and following the example of its long line of ancestors, arouses its weakening energies and strength, determined at least, while yet it lives, to spread abroad throughout the world, rich joys and precious blessings with such a generous hand, rendering its few remaining days a season of such universal happiness, that it may hope to have, even though it will be forced to say farewell, and step out into the mysterious never to return, the consolation of a long and kind remembrance in the hearts of all mankind. Its aim is surely well directed; for what could it announce more apt to make the very universe resound with joy and mirth; what could it bring more fit to cheer the hearts of all mankind; what, as a parting gift, more welcome could it leave, than Christmas, with all itg
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	247
attendant scenes of merriment and joy ? None, to be sure.
- For in the glorious festival, now so near, that of the Nativ-X ity of our Divine Saviour, we see the celebration of a mystery so infinitely sublime, so sweet to the heart of the v faithful, consummated but for our own true happiness, and :	by its very nature so suggestive of joy and gladness, that
its annual commemoration has been retained in the Church since the time of the Apostles as an event of rapturous delight, and has been handed down to us from generation to generation, marked with the various festivities peculiar to the ages through which it has passed, and to enumerate *, which a volume would be needed, but all expressive of the same great joy experienced upon the occasion.
'	Far from dying out or becoming lukewarm, the spirit of
this glorious Feast seems to have been rendered by time in fact more universal and more animated; it seems to have I been but enlivened by the many attacks of those who would, forsooth, have reformed, its celebration by wiping out its characteristic merriment or joyous pastimes; and strengthened by the cruel assaults of the cold-hearted materialist, who would deny the slightest reason for a festival— yes, crush the very object of its joy—until we find it at the present day the festival of festivals, the most anxiously-awaited and gladly greeted throughout the world, not only K for the joys of its religious solemnities, but for the many and various circumstances of mirth and pleasure—of » happiness—that it brings.
Christmas, then, bids joy to all—young and old, rich and poor; invites us all to banish care and sadness from our hearts, and enjoy the pleasures of its bright season. Its very nature sanctifies it to all who understand its glorious mysteries; and the faithful tradition that has preserved it for almost nineteen centuries, forces, as it were, even r • those whose ignorance or prejudice deny to them its true enjoyment, to at least yield to the spirit of the day and r join its general happiness. Notre Dame, of course, will participate in the general joy of the approaching festival.
I In fact, thesingular assistance that she has received in meeting the many trials and troubles of the passing year, cannot fail to animate all here to swell the praises of God with
A particular fervor and devotion. The chime of bells will . ring its greeting with its loudest, richest peals; the differ* ent chapels and shrines will be supplied with the customary beautiful representations of the Crib of Bethlehem; the ■ church will be adorned with its most precious ornaments and tastiest decorations; its organ sounding its sweetest
• strains, and its doors thrown open, inviting all the faithful to approach—lati triumphantes—and join the angel-chorus in the grand chant of the day—“ Gloria in excelsis Deo."
As for the religious celebration of the day, so also does r Notre Dame make extra preparations for the various >	amusements and merry pastimes appropriate to the occa-
sion. She realizes, as the boys would say, that
.	“ Christmas comes but once a year,”
and strives always to prove to them that
“ When it comes it’s welcome here.”
► She remembers, too, that during this holy season
“----heart to heart kind wishes sends,
'	And soul with soul more closely blends,
And friends draw nearer unto friends, ‘	Around the social fires.”
And for this reason she permits the inconvenience of an interruption in the classes, and grants to those of her stu- dents,who feel that the joys and pleasures of this happy
time must be shared in the family circle, a short vacation to spend with those who are near and dear to them.
To render happy those that choose, as we believe, the better plan, and which, we think, by the way, the majority of our students, would so admit, by cool and prudent thought upon their return, and decide to spend the festive season at their college home—no pains will be spared. The days will be spent in all the jolly sports of the season; the evenings interspersed with pleasant games and pastimes, so that all can assure their comrades, upon their return, that they have had in every way a “ splendid’’ time.
The Scholastic, too, expects to feel a more than ordinary joy upon the occasion. Our hearts are filled with the blissful feelings inspired by its approach; and we take occasion now, before the students leave, to express to them, as also to those remaining, and all our friends, our hope that they may not entirely forget us.
To those intending to go, we wish the enjoyment of their happiest anticipations, with nothing like trouble or sickness to mar the pleasures that they expect, and when the feast is over, a prompt and cheerful return to their duties at Notre Dame,Jwhere they may feel sure of a hearty welcome. To those remaining, we would wish an equal amount of happiness. May the Christmas boxes be numerous and large, and the time be spent with all true mirth and cheerfulness by all.
In conclusion, we would, in the fulness of our joy, extend to all our friends at home or abroad, far or near, the sincere, heartfelt wish of
A Merry Christmas!
The Entertainment.
The first dramatic Entertainment of the season was given by the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association on Saturday, Dec. 20th. Heretofore, the ice has generally been broken on the 13th of October; but this year, owing to the want of a suitable hall, the usual exhibition on St. Edward’s day had to be dispensed with. The St. Cecilians have always been favorites at Notre Dame, and, as at their recent entertainment they produced the first play we had seen on the college stage formany months, they could count on a warmer welcome than usual.
The principal fault that has in past years been found with our exhibitions has been the length of the programmes, and the great number of addresses, declamations, recitations, etc., that had to be gone through before the play, the feature of the evening, had been reached. Whatever reason there may have been for such complaints in the past, no fault could certainly have been found with the programme of - the recent entertainment. An opening march by the Cornet Band, a beautiful Christmas Address, read in excellent style by Master W. J. McCarthy, a short Prologue, delivered in a stirring manner by Master M. J. Burns, a recitation by Master C. Tinley, in which he maintained the favorable opinion created by his recent effort at the Euglossian Entertainment, an Overture by the University Quartette, and the curtain rose on the first act of the drama “ If I were a King.”	’
This play, written expressly for the Cecilians, is one of the most popular in their repertory. The plot is substantially as follows: In the first act of shepherds are discovered watching their sheep near the Bay of Ischia. They find a letter announcing that the Prince is to be
248
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
drowned, and that a conspiracy has been entered into against the King of Naples. The letter closes with an allusion to “ two brothers ” that puzzles the shepherds A shepherd boy of superior appearance, Genaro, enters and is greeted with affectionate reproaches for his long absence. After a while he falls asleep, and is left to rest in quiet, but soon awakens, and in soliloquy reveals the fact that he has that day saved the Prince from drowning, has been rewarded, and promised the lasting friendship of the royal heir to the throne of Naples. This event seems to have aroused in the youth an ambition for something higher than his present condition, and he alludes with bitterness to the cruelty of his overseer, Banquo, but despairs of escaping from it, when Banquo himself enters, and abuses and menaces Genaro, who turns and defies him. The overseer leaves the stage venting his rage in threats. Genaro, discouraged, is about to go as commanded to tend the sheep, when he is joined by his little brother Valerio, who enumerates the wrongs he has suffered, and is assured by Genaro that he shall never be subjected to the like again.
Conspirators enter, and discuss their plan for the assassination of King Ferdinand; but Genaro, under cover of a large tree, overhears their conversation, and is startled to find Banquo a bribed accomplice in the projected treason and regicide. Buisco, Gonsalw and Banquo are the conspirators. Buisco, being the king’s cousin, has determined to betray Naples into the hands of the Spaniards (the Spanish Naval General, Cesare, being in the secret), on condition that when Ferdinand is dead Spain will recognize him as King of Naples. Buisco discovers Genaro. Alarmed, he questions him, to find if anything had been overheard. Genaro boldly rebukes the villain for his pres ence in this lonely place at such an unseasonable hour, but gives him no satisfaction, and Buisco leaves the scene, undecided whether to kill Genaro or not.
Left alone, the shepherd immediately summons his companions, and, telling them all, declares his determination to take them with him to Naples to inform the king in time to prevent the crime. In the next scene, Genaro, considering the dangers that hang over the kingdom, expresses his desire to be possessed of power, of armies, fleets, fortifications, etc., that he might be enabled to execute justice, protect innocence, encourage virtue, and make the world happy. He falls asleep on the green sward, and, dreaming,—sings, “I wish I were a King.” At this moment the royal cortege passes. The king overhears his wish, and resolving to give the shepherd boy a taste of royalty, steps from the litter and orders that Genaro be carefully laid upon it, and carried in this way, asleep, to Naples. In the palace Ferdinand collects his courtiers and tells of the joke he is playing, informing them that they must treat the new king as if he had reigned for years and that he abdicates his crown for three days in favor of the shepherd. While yet asleep, the major-domo of the Palace observes a remarkable white lock of hair on the head of Genaro, and is struck by the fact because this is peculiar to the present royal line of Naples.
The youth awakens, wonders, at his surroundings, is obsequiously greeted by courtiers, and, though quite mystified, finding all persist in treating him as a king, he resolves to embrace this providential opportunity to rescue the kingdom from impending danger. Meanwhile, a meeting of the conspirators takes place and their confidence of success is shown.
The scene following finds Genaro assembling the entire court. From the throne he announces the intended attempt to assassinate the King; pointing to Buisco and Gonsalw, he orders them to be searched, and conclusive evidences of guilt are found. The royal joke turns out a miraculous defeat of treason and murder. While this is going on, Spanish forces are moving upon Naples, and as Ferdinand is listening to the story of the white lock, the alarm is given, and he rushes out to battle.
Alberto, the Prince, hears the cannonading, sees the flames, and the palace in disorder, enters, calling pitifully for his father, when Genaro meets him, and they recognize each other.
Genaro, left alone, is attacked by a party of brigands in the pay of Buisco, with that villain at their head, who is about to slay him for having defeated the plot, when Gecato, a shrewd shepherd, who with his fellows had come to Naples to give information, inflicts summary justice, and the shepherds, Genaro and Cecato, leave, tired of royal life, for their home, glad to know that Banquo will never torment them again. Banquo, seeing the turn of affairs, and meeting with much trouble, with brigands, being arrested and nearly murdered once or twice, determines to leave the world and play the hermit until danger is over. The qualms of a bad conscience torment him, however, and we see that crime carries with it its own punishment, for this overseer had stolen Genaro and Valerio, princes, from the palace, in their infancy, being bribed by Buisco.
Naples once quiet, after the defeat of the Spaniards Ferdinand sends for Genaro to reward him in a manner, becoming the great service he has rendered. In Naples the identity of Genaro and Valerio with the stolen princes is attested, and the youth, who as a simple shepherd had saved the life of the prince and the throne of the king, finds himself at last heir to the crown he has rescued in so singular a manner from the grasp of the usurper.
This play was first brought out about a dozen years ago, in the palmiest days of the Association, and the roles were originally taken by the O’Connells, Footes, Wiles, Dodges, Staleys, and others whose names figure most prominently in the Cecilian annals of the time, and whose portraits now adorn the walls of the Society-room. It is on record that its first presentation was a decided success. However that may be, it should certainly go on record that all those who took part in its reproduction last Saturday evening have every reason to be satisfied with the success of their efforts. The principal roles were filled in such a manner as to sustain the old-time reputation of the Society, and many of those who took the subordinate parts gave proof that when their time comes to assume the leading characters, they will not be found wanting. W. J. McCarthy, as the King, had all the gravity and impressive dignity befitting one who sustains the cares of state; M. J. Burns displayed the wisdom to be expected of an old and trusted counsellor; C. Tinley, G. Orr and A. Caren, the heavy villains of the play, succeeded very well in their roles of dark and bloody conspirators; T. F. McGrath, the Shepherd King, and A. B. Mergentheim, his young brother, who are both eventually recognized as the long-lost sons of King Ferdinand, played their parts in a very creditable manner,—Master McGrath, especially, doing some of the best acting of the evening; F. H. Grever, E. A. Otis, J) Weitzel, J. Homan, C. F. Rietz, P. Perley, J. Morgan, H. Bose, R. McCarthy, N. Weney, J. Schobey, J. W. Guthrie,
4
4

' A
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	.	249
G. Foster, J. F. Quinn, C. J. Brinkman, as courtiers, officers of the palace, pages, attendants, etc., added all the necessary pomp and dignity to the court scenes; E. Orrick, the leader of the shepherds, and his comrades, J. A. Gibbons, F. Phillips, A. Rietz, and A. J. Burger, who appeared for the first time in important roles, give good promise for the future; while the brigands—those indispensable accessories of all Italian dramas, were ably personated by J. O’Neill, E. Sugg, and R. Fleming. The epilogue, which contained beautiful sentiments couched in elegant language, was delivered by Master T. F. McGrath.
The closing remarks were made by Very Rev. President Corby, after which all retired convinced that the Cecilians are neither dead nor sleeping, and that if the reputation of the Society is destined ever to be diminished, it will certainly not be through the fault of the Juniors of ’79-80. Before bidding them adieu for the time, we cannot refrain from congratulating them on another point which deserves at least as much credit as their dramatic success, viz., that their play was prepared and gone through with, without necessitating the sacrifice of a single hour that should have been spent in the class-room or study-hall.
k '
Personal.
—J. Morton Burge, ’74, is in business at Nashville, Tenn.
—J. D. Montgomery, ’78, is flourishing at Montgomery, Ind.
^W. Waldo, ’70, has gained several lawsuits lately at Independence, Mo.
—0. A. Kreiter (Commercial), ’74, is engaged in business in Toledo, Ohio.
—Dr. Von Donhofif, ’68, intends to visit his Alma Mater next commencement.
^-T. F. O’Grady, ’78, is practising medicine in New Jersey, We wish him success in his profession.
—P. J. Mattimore (Commercial, ’77), is employed as a clerk in the House of Representatives, Washington, D. C.
—Colly Clarke, ’79, will be pleased to receive a call from his old friends when they pass through Chicago during the holidays.
—Queen Margarita lately sent to Prof. Gregori, from Italy, an elegant gold watch and chain in recognition of his eminent talent. The queen’s monogram and arms done in diamonds and pearls decorate the case of the watch {
—Eugene F. Arnold received the degree of Master of Laws (L. 8. M.) last June at the University of Georgetown, and was lately admitted to the Bar of the District of Columbia., Mr. Arnold, before returning home, received the degree of LL. B. at Notre Dame, in ’78.
—The Sunday Times, of Lafayette, Ind., informs us that Joseph P. McHugh, ’77, “thinks of abandoning the study of Blackstone, Chitty and Kent to enter the newspaper world.” In the latter case, we think Joe’s practice in the Scholastic editorial corps, during schooldays, will help him not a little.
—Among the visitors during the past week were Rev. Father Duhmig of Avila, and Rev. M. F. Noll, the popular and energetic pastor of Elkhart. Father Noll has lately developed quite a taste for numismatics, and amongst other curiosities which he has collected, he showed us a very antique coin which possesses a peculiarly romantic historical interest.
—D. A. Clarke, of ’70, Editor of the Catholic Columbian, who, both as student and professor is so favorably remembered at Notre Dame, was raised to the dignity of the priesthood by Rt. Rev. Bishop Borgess, of Detroit, on Saturday, Dec. 20th. In Father Clarke, the diocese of Columbus has gained the services of a scholarly, whole-souled and devoted priest. We trust soon to have the
pleasure of a visit from him at Notre Dame, where he knows that a cordial welcome is always ready for him
—We have had the pleasure of a visit from Mr. Edward J. McPhelim, of Chicago, a late graduate of St. Joseph’s College, Memramcook, N. B., and who during his schooldays wrote choice verses occasionally for the Scholastic, over the initials “E. J. M.” His contributions have, as we learn from other sources, already found favor with some of our best magazines and newspapers. Mr. McPhelim is a young man of much promise. We wish him success in whatever career he enters upon, and if he occasionally favors our college paper, which has a hrge capacity and cannot easily be kept stuffed, he will place us under obligtions.
Obituary.
It is our painful duty to announce the death of Mr. Chas. O’Hara,—late of Batavia, Ill., but for some years a resident at Notre Dame,—which took place on Friday, Dec. 19, in the 67th year of his age. Mr. O’Hara had borne a long and very painful illness with truly Christian fortitude, and departed this life strengthened with all the rites and the last Sacraments of Holy Church. When Notre Dame lay a mass of ruins, a victim to the fire-fiend, Mr. O’Hara was among the first to contribute a mite towards its rebuilding, and his memory will not be forgotten in the prayers daily sent to the Throne of Grace for its benefactors. He is the first of the generous few who has passed hence; each of us can say, “May our end be like to his.”—Reguiescat in pace.
Local Items.
Merry Christmas! Happy New Year!
—Pass the bread, Tommy, my boy!
—Gallants should never prevaricate.
—Sharpen your skates; oil your joints.
—Good skating, and the boys are happy.
—Chess is a popular game with Juniors.
—Splendid skating on the lakes these days.
—Who has found our legal friend’s locket?
—What has become of the Seniors’ Orchestra?
—I object, Big Injun; Grand Mogul. The boys of’76!
—Kinney is the best handball player in the Senior class.
—Our Peoria representative has a magnet of his own.
—The St. Cecilia Entertainment was all that could be desired.
—Kirchoff, the spectroscopist, will be here before long, incog.
—Sixty Juniors are to remain at Notre Dame during the holidays.
—When you return after the holidays bring us a few new subscribers.
—That wonderful Soph, is not as graceful on the ice as he is on land.
—We noticed a number of the students with elegant holiday cards.
—We tremblingly request our tenors robusta assoluto not to go it so noisily.
—Items are like snifters—they are of no use until they are collateralized.
—South Bend will eventuate nobly throughout the dim vistas of the worn-out past.
—It was really too bad he didn’t have his supper before he commenced that debate.
—Judge an institution of learning by its libraries, and students by what they read.
—All students going south will be favored with halfrates over the I. P. & C. R. R.
250	-	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—George says he really can’t invite that friend of his to visit him during the holidays.
—Boys going West will take the five-o’clock train Tuesday morning; East, the noon-train.
—Rev. Father Condon has promised to deliver a lecture for the Columbians after New Year’s.
—The Scholastic Annual is now out. Everyone should procure a copy. Price, twenty-five cents.
—We don’t like the anpearance of that second-hand clothing establishment in Freshman row.
—The Preps, write most of the items for this column of the Scholastic ; so please make allowance.
—When the swallows homeward fly. Let us swallow ere we die! Oh my 1 In my eye there is a sty.
—Every one is expected to return before the third of January. Classes will be resumed on the second.
—The St. Cecilia Philomathean is decidedly the most energetic and liveliest Literary Society at Notre Dame.
—There is no necessity why the Scholastic should appear during the holiday week. Hence it will not do so.
—The usual monthly Conference was held in the Presbytery last Wednesday, Very Rev. Father Granger presiding.
—The Junior prefects have sent in a requisition for more desks. They have but one vacant desk in their study-hall.
—The Philosopher par excellence has been exhorting the man of war to declare hostilities against the Scholastic.
—Sailing vessels were all the go with the Preps, during the earlier part of the week. Skating is the rage at present.
. —Our dog “Dick” has taken his departure for Denver, Col., to see what he can find in the shape of game. We miss him.	-
—We have been officially informed that one of the Senior Commercials has been engaged to teach the Zulus penmanship.
—Everybody is highly pleased with the manner in which the Philomatheans rendered the “ Shepherd King.” We have heard no one speak of it except in terms of praise.
—Brice won the debate by strength of arguments, philosophical reasoning, persuasive eloquence and graceful gestures.
—The magnet is a very attractive theme for the lecturer. It attracts iron, steel, attention, nickel, scientific research, and cobalt.
—The Juniors play hand-ball with such gusto that there is great danger of their knocking the. north end out of their play-hall. .	’
—Uniform editions of the complete works of.Cardinal •I Wiseman and Father Faber have been added to the Le-monnier Library. .
—Those who remain here during the holidays can have a good time if they wish to. Let all join in the,sports with a hearty good will.
—A large number of German papers are distributed every week, bv order of the President, to those who are studying that language.
—Father Zahm will repeat his lecture in South Bend and Laporte. The crowbar business will be done without the aid of the class in Physics.
—The Seniors, under the supervision of B. Marcellinus, cleared the ice of snow last Tuesday. On Wednesday the skating was all that could be desired.
—If you wish to make a Christmas present to your friends, give them a Scholastic Annual. It is full of information, and articles “rich, rare and racy.”
—There will be no issue of the Scholastic next week, in order that those who are employed in our office may have an opportunity to enjoy the holidays.
— Our friend John has concluded to keep off' the ice until h e learns to skate. Although he is not made of glass he is afraid he might be taken for a tumbler.
—Antediluvians should reinember lbqt they themselves
were boys. What pleases boys may not be of interest to old ' men, and vice versa. Give the boys a chance.
—Don’t forget to give an alms in honor of the Infant J Jesus. There are many persons in the world suffering for the necessaries of life while you are enjoying its luxuries. v It is an old saying and a true one that one half the world does not know how the other half lives.
—One of the slaters who worked here on the Infirmary roof last summer was lately killed in Chicago. He fell from a building and was dashed to pieces on the pavement below.
—The pupils in drawing are making rapid progress under their instructor, Bro. Albert. We noticed several pieces of well executed work during our last visit to the Studio.	’
—That Freshy with the large sole wants it thoroughly understood that the low price at which he purchased his boots was not the cause of the New York Leather Establishment going into bankruptcy.	.
—Masters Foster and Fleming have superseded the old ' generals of the Turks and Russians. Both parties have gone into winter quarters for the present, but the next -« campaign will begin early in January.
—One of the smallest preps., Frank Z—, wrote in the autograph album of bis great rival in class, Adolph B---:
“ Remember me when I am dead;
Be sure your right, then go ahead.”
—A horizontal bar and pair of swinging rings have lately	;
been put up in the Minims’ recreation hall by their in-	‘
defatigable prefect. Bro. Albert does not like to see any	•
round-shouldered boys among his young charges.	<
—A half-holiday was given Tuesday afternoon to the . students. All deserted the campus to enjoy a skate on St.
Mary’s Lake, which had been cleared of its light coat of snow by Bro. Marcellinus and a squad of Seniors.	_ z
—When an alleged young resident of South Bend agrees ' to escort an alleged young friend from the sunny South out to Notre Dame, there is no necessity to stop and * ’ announce the fact at the Academy. Sophomoric mashers, please take notice.	"/'1
—Bro. Edward, the devoted treasurer of the University, has moved his office from Science Hall into the main building. He is now located to the left of the entrance,from the College court, where he can always be found during business hours, ever ready to do a favor for a friend.
—On Thursday next, the Feast of Christmas, Hissa Regia will be sung at o’clock Mass. The 1st choir part will be sung by four voices, the 2d choir responding as usual.	j
Vespers of the Feast, p. 64.
' —Bros. Leander, Lawrence aud Hugh are determined a to do all in their power to make the vacation lively for the sixty Preps, who intend staying here for the holidays. Christmas trees, excursion parties, spelling-bees, sociables, athletic sports, and contests of various kinds, will be among the amusements on the programme. •	,
—We desire to call the attention of those who shall have
occasion to go to South Bend during the holidays to the	-1
advertisement of J. Mish. He keeps a well selected stock of all goods in his line, with everything of first-class quality. His store is in Odd-Fellows’ Block, and you may be
sure of a hearty welcome. Give him a call.
‘ —The Minims’ building since it was remodelled interiorly is a great improvement on the old one. Their studyhall, dormitory, and lavatory are kept as comfortable as can be fly the new and much improved system of steamheating. This accounts, no doubt, for the excellent health enjoyed by all the members of this department.
—Father Granger lately received from France several beautiful medals of Our Lady of Lourdes; two of them he gave to the teacher of the Minims, for two of the best boys	i
in that department. They were awarded to Master A.
Van Mourick, of Houghton, Mich., and F. Mattes, of Des
Moines, Iowa	’
—These obit lines on a mustache, taken from the y Queen's College Journal, are republished by us for the benefit of the Class of Mechanics:
We shall look, but we shall miss it,	*"
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
251
There will be no downy hair; ' We shall linger to caress it, Though we know it is not there.

I •
T'

—We lately visited the piano department of the Con- Grand Opening March., servatory of Music and found everything in excellent con- • Address of the Evening, dition. We were particularly pleased with the playing of > ‘Indian’s Revenge”... C. Rietz, E. Sugg, and J. Homan. The director informed !	.............
us that R. Keenan, and several others whom we did not ..........................
have the pleasure of hearing, were making rapid progress. We may expect some good music from these gentlemen during the January examination.
—Very R;v. Father Sorin has sent a beautiful picture, La Vierge de la Chaise, from Paris to the best student in the Minim department; but as there are several good boys among the Minims it was agreed to let all draw for it. The fortunate one was Master F. Leach, of Detroit. The Minims return thanks to Father General, who. amid all his cares in France, does not forget them. They wish him a merry Christmas and a very happy New Year.
—Rev. Father Walsh made his usual monthly visit to the Minim Department last Friday. He examined the Arithmetic, Reading, Spelling and Geography Classes, and expressed himself well pleased with the progress made by the students since his last visit. Among those who received special notice were: Masters W. Coolbaugh, Leo Spalding, Chicago; M. Olds, Columbus, 0.; D. G. Taylor, St. L uis, Mo.; J. S. Courtney, Washington, D. C.; and F. Mattes, Des Moines, Iowa, in Arithmetic; Master F. Leach, of Detroit, Mich., in Spelling; F. B. Farrelly, of Chicago, III.,'in Reading; and W. V. O’Malley, Chicago, in Geography, to whom the Rev. examiner awarded prizes.
—We learn from our college exchanges that card-plav7 ing and the use of tobacco are forbidden at OberlinT Although not a sin in itself, card-playing has such"*repulsive associations connected with it as to make.it stink in the nostrils of many. Needless to say, it is-under the ban at Notre Dame. The gentlemen in the' Senior department are permitted the use of tobacco,--however, under certain ^restrictions, and we hope ouexdr two will not make such leather-heads of themselves^lis to break through these restrictions and depriveJb<Twhole department of the privilege, as was the case-in former years.
—Castor is now favorably situated for astronomical observation. tris a brilliant double star, of a blueish white light, an an be resolved into its component elements by a lovyzthagnifying power. Castor and Pollux together the constellation Gemini, and their mythological istory is simply a “Physical Myth.” Castor represents the oil that still bears his name, and Pollux—(pukes agathon Polydenkea) is evidently an emetic. One of them was supposed to be mortal, the other immortal—that is, while one went down to Hades, the other ascended to the skies. Few physical myths are so well and satisfactorily ex plained as this. ’
—Here is what The “Are Maria" says of The Scholastic Annual for 1880: “ No one, we think, who invests twenty-five cents in this attractive little volume will regret it. We are not surprised to hear that it has become very popular, and that its appearance is looked forward to with such interest. It would be hard to have a greater variety of useful, entertaining, and instructive matter in a small compass than is contained in this brochure. Together with the usual astronomical calculations, calendars, etc,, we have the latest postal regulations, tables of the movable feasts, holydays of obligation, days of abstinence, fasting days, and even some astrological predictions which are highly amusing. Besides this, there are sixty or more pages made up of short essays, sketches, and poems, many of which are of considerable literary merit. “The Old and New Notre Dame” is set off with two excellent engravings. Chief among the more solid articles are “The Truth about Galileo,” “Shall and Will," and “Golden Words of Counsel to Young Men,” the oration delivered at the thirty-fourth annual commencement of the University of Notre Dame by the zealous and gifted Bishop Spalding. Any one of these articles is worth twice the price of the pamphlet.”
—The following is the programme of the twenty-second anniversary exercises (transferred) of the St Cecilia Phil-
omathean Association, which took place in Washington Hall on Saturday, the 20th inst.:
"	PART RIRST.
..N.D. U. Band W. J. McCarthy ....C. Tinley ....M. J. Burns ....Orchestra
PART SECOND.
“IE I WERE A KING!” A Drama in Four Acts. DRAMATIS PERSONS.
Lueio
Padro... Ursro... Marzzo.. Marine.. Lino----- Cerano..
Genaro (Shepherd King)......................T.	F. McGrath
Ferdinand (King of Naples)..................W.	J. McCarthy
Melchiore (1st Courtier)......................M. G. Burns
Ruisco (Cousin of King, and Conspirator) .....C. A. Tinley Don Gonsalvo (Spanish Ambassador, and Conspirator)...-G. Orr Bozza (Major-Domo of King’s Palace)............E. A. Otis
Valerio (Shepherd King’s little Brother).A. B. Mergentheim Alberto (Son of King Ferdinand)..........F. H. Grever
Orazzio (Duke of Otranto)....’..................J. Weitzel
Banquo (Observer of Shepherds)................A. A. Caren
Cecato (Chief Shepherd).......................E. C. Orrick
Philippo.......1	f..........J. a. Gibbons
Marco...........J	(..........a. J. Burger
Alonzo, (General of the King’s Armies)..........G. Foster
Verdi............1	i ........J. W. Guthrie
Beppo ...........V Pages .....................F. A. Quinn
Giovine..........)	(.........C. J. Brinkman
Stephano (Chief of the Brigands) ...............J. O’Neill
T	'	.....E. G. Sugg
C. J. McDermott ...W. Thompson ...R. E. Fleming ....J. Homan .....C. F. Rietz ....A. P. Perley
1
Brigands
Courtiers
Doria...........
Leandro (Royal Usher)
Laurenzzo (1st Officer) Hugoni (2d Officer)... Lupo (Chamberlain....
■J. L. Morgan ....Ft. Rose , R. McCarthy ... N. Wenny . .J. Schobey
—There was quite a lively time in the Juniors’ refectory on Sunday evening. The holidays were to begin on Mon-dajr morning, and a review of the session’s "work since September was made. The names of the following young gentlemen have figured every week on the R *11 of Honor: A. J. Burger, J. C. Brinkman, M. J. Burns, T. Flvnn, A. Hintze, J. Herrmann, F. McPaiIlip\ W. J. MeCirtby, E. Orrick, E. A. Olis, F Phillips, A. Rietz, W. Rietz. J. Ruppe, C. Thiele, N. Weney. Twenty three were mentioned as having never received notes. A vote by ballot was taken to determine who, in the opinion of the * boys, was the best student in the department. W. J. McCarthy, of Boonesville, Mo., received the highest number of notes, 18; M. JI Bums, 14; F. McPhillips, 14; A. Rietz, 11; M. Weny, 10; C. Tinley, 6; F. Phillips, 4. Votes were also cast for C. J. Brinkman, A. J. Burger, J. A. Gibbons, E. Orrick, R. McCarthy, J. M. Scanian, R. Le Bourgeois, J. Weitzel, J. Homan, W. Rietz, R. Fleming, F. Dever, C. Thiele, and A. S. Rock. The two best classrecords were made by students of the Collegiate Department; the name of M. J. Burns having figured on the List of Excellence 13 times, and that of A. S. Rock, of Lincoln, Ill., 10 times. The best record in the Preparatory Department was that of R. Le Bourgeois, of New Orleans, who had led his classes 9 times. The best in the Commercial Department, was F. Phillips, of Fort Wavne, who had been on the List of Excellence six times. The other students deserving honorable mention, are the following:" E. Croarkin, Prep., first in Competition, 7 times; A. B. Mergentheim, Commercial, 7 times; J- B. Wilder, J. F. Browne, Prep., 6 times; W. J. McCarthy, Collegiate, 5 times; F. Grever, Collegiate Preparatory, 4 times; J. Devitt, M. A. Vedder, P. Rasche, A. Rietz, C. Rietz, C. Tinley, C. Brinkman, J. Rose, N. Weney, A. Cogh-lin, Preparatory and Commercial, 4 times; W. Cogli-lin, H. Dunn, J. Homan, R. McDermott, R. Fleming, Preparatory and Commercial, 5 times; E. Orrick, A. J. Burger, J. A. Gibbons. A. Hellebusch, E. Gaines, H. Bachman, O. Farrelly, R. Semmes, J. W. Guthrie, J. Schobey, J. Weitzel, A. Caren, 3 times; and a long list of
252
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
others whose names had appeared on the List of Excellence once or twice. A few premiums were awarded or promised, which in no way tended to diminish the enthusiasm.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. M. Anderson, R. C. Adams, J. B. Berteling, A. J. Burger, J. P. Brice, J. G. Brady, F. Bell, M. F. Burns, B. J. Claggett, J. Carrer, L. Clements, T. B. Campbell, J. Casey, B. Casey, G. Clarke, F. Clarke, T. F. Conlan, W. Connolly, D. Donohue, J. Dempsey, J Delaney, H. L. Duginger, G. Donnelly, H. Deebsn, M. English, M. B. Falvey, E. Fogarty, E. Gooley, I. J. Gittings, F. Humbert, J. Halloran, A Hayden, T. Hinderlang, J. Jordan, R. C. Johnson, C. L. Johnson, J. R. Kelly, J. Kurz, P. B. Larkin, A Lent, J. B. McGrath, W. B. McGorrisk, J. McErlain, P. McCormick. J. O. McNerny, J. A McIntyre, E. Murphy, Ed. Molitor, J. R. Marlette, L. Marantette, P. H. Maguire, J. D. McRae, W. McAtee, M. Maloney, J. Malone, J. Noonan, G. Nester, J. Osher, R. C. O’Brien, Geo. Pike, H. B. Pollock, J. Perea, J. Rogers, W. Ryan, J. Ryan, F. Reeve, R. H. Russell, S. T. Spalding, J. Spalding, T. W. Semmes, T. D. Summers, G. Sugg, J. Solon," J. Strawn, P. F. Shea, W. Scholfield, J. S. Smith, S. Smith, A. W. Stockwell, 8. P. Terry, P. Terry, P. H. Vogel, F. X. Wall, W. Wilson, H. Wathan, A. Zahm, T. Zeien.
Junior department.
J. F. Browne, A. J. Burger, C. J. Brinkman, F. Becker, M. J. Burns, G. C. Castauedu, F. L. Carter, A. A Caren, E. H. Croarkin, A. M. Coghlin, W. S. Cleary, H. P. Dunn, H. F. Devitt, F. T. Dever, T. F. Devitt, T. F. Flynn, G. C. Foster, O. J. Farrelly, J. Gordon, F. H. Grever, J. \V. Guthrie, J. A. Gibbons, Fred Glade, E. H. Gaines, M. E. Herrick, A. C. Hierb, A. J. Hintze, J. A. Hermann, A. F. Hellebusch. J. T. Homan, F. R. Johnson,'P. A. Joyce, F. A. Kleine, J. W. Kuhn, R. L. Le Bourgeois, J. E. Litmer, J. A. Larkin, S. Livingston, A. B. Mergentheim, F. McPhiilips, C. J. McDermott, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy, R. E. McCarthy, A. B. Manning, P. P. Nelson, N. J Nelson, E. C. Orrick, R. E. O’Connor, E. A. Otis, G. A. Orr, A G. Payro, C. F. Perry, F. B. Phillips A. P. Perley, F. A. Quinn, G. J. Quinn, A. Rheinboldt, A Rietz, W. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, J. Ruppe, H. L. Rose, C. F. Rose, A. S. Rock, R. J. Semmes, E. G. Sugg, J. A. Seeger, J. M. Scanlan, F. C. Scheid, J. K. Sehobey, C. A Tinley, C. H. Thiele, W. M. Thompson, M. A. Vedder, J. B. Weitzel, J. B. Wilder, W. T, Weney, B. A. Zakind, F. X. Zeis, J. D. Coleman, H. G. Foote, L. Coghlin, S. Dering, P. Rasche.
Note.—Fred Glade’s name was omitted from the Junior Roll of Honor last week, by mistake.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
H. A. Kitz D. G. Taylor, C. H. McGrath, W. J.Coolbaugh, W. Hanavin, C. E Droste, 8. P. Van Mounck, A. Van Mourick, J. S. Courtney, G. E. Tourtilotte, H. C. Snee, L. Mattes, E. A. Howard, J. W. Bannister, J. S. Chaves, W. M. Olds, F. E. Leach, L. J. Young, J. S. Garrity, F. Garrity, W. Wright, W. V. OMally, J. A. Kelly, E. N. O’Donnell, C. Young A. A. Molander, J. Bender, G. Woodson.
Class Honors.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions which are held monthly—Director of Studies.]
■	COLLEGIATE COURSE.
A. J. Burger, J. B. McGrath, J. B. Berteling, J. P. Kenny, F. Bloom, R. H. Russell, R. Anderson, H. Wathan, J. G. Brady, M. McEniry, D. Harrington, J. Noonan, R. O’Brien, R. Stewart, B. J. Claggett, M. T. Burns, G. Sugg, J Norfleet, W. B. McGorrisk, A Zahm, M. J. Burns, T. Simms, A S. Rock.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. J. Coolbaugh, J. M. Courtney, J. S. Courtney, D. G. Taylor, G. Tourtilotte, G. Woodson, A. Van Mourick, J. W. T, Spaulding, W. A. Hanavin, C. G. Droste, C. W. McGrath, C. Welty. E. A. Howard, H. C. Snee, F. Mattes, H. A. Kitz, F. Leech, F. B. Farrelly, J. A Kelly, J. Chaves, A Schmiickle, E. Donnelly, J. H. Dwenger, L. J. Young, C. Young, M. Olds, J. Garrity, F. Garrity, A. Molander, J. Bender, W. Wright, E. J. Johnson, W. O’Mally, J. Bannister.
List of Excellence.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Moral Philosophy—A. J. Burger, J. B. McGrath; Latin—J.B.
McGrath, F. W. Bloom, J. B. Berteling, J. Norfleet, A Zahm;
Greek*—J. B. McGrath, F. W. Bloom, B. J. Claggett; English Composition—J. Norfleet, R. Anderson, H. Wathen; Rhetoric— A. S. Rock, M. T. Burns, P. Larkin, A. Zahm ; English Literature--; History—M. J. Burns, G. Sugg, A. Rock, D. Har-rinton, J. B. Berteling, T. Simms, F. Wall, T. B. Campbell; Logic—T. B. Campbell, F. Wall, D. Donahoe; Algebra—J. Jordan, J. Kurtz, J. Brady, A. Rock; Geometry—J. Norfleet, J. Kurz, R. Anderson, F. Brennan, P. Larkin, W. Connolly, J. F. Mug, T. Conlan, T. F. Clarke, A Wathan; Trigonometry—R. D. Stewart, Gen, Geom. and Calculus—G. Sugg; Mechanics—G. Sugg; Astronomy—F. Bloom ; Linear Drawing—R. Anderson; Physiology—F. Reeve, R. Anderson; Botany—A. Rock, M. J. Burns, R. Anderson ; Zoology—R. Stewart, M. J. Burns ; Physics -------; Chemistry----; Mineralogy;-----Geology------.
Note.—No report has been banded in from the above classes. * The name of A. Caren was inadvertently omitted from the List of Excellenc for Greek in the Preparatory Course.
Jiirgs
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—At the regular meeting of St. Gertrude's German Lit-terary Society the reading was: “Der Eispalast”; readers: Misses Smith and Scloman.
—Visitors: Mr. C. Donnelly, Sr., Michigan City; Mr. Atwood, Sycamore, Ill.; Mrs. Fox, Chicago; Mr. Newell, Elkhart, Ind.; Mr. Allen, South Bend.
—At the weekly Academic reunion of the Junior Department the reading was: “One Hundred Years Ago,” by E Lloyd; “ Generosite royale," by E. Populornm; “Eulenspiegel und ein Fuhrmann," by C. Campbell; “One by One,” Procter, by L. French.
—At the regular meeting of St. Clotilde’s French Liter ary Society the reading was: "Une esquisse de la m de Fenelon." Spirited conversations on the topics of the day were maintained in French, and the increasing facility in the use of the language was made a subject of mutual congratulations.
—Three beautiful even’s have been signalized during the past week—the regular exposition of the Blessed Sacrament for the Archconfraternity of Perpetual Adoration ; the celebration of the Feast of the Immaculate Con-cepiion on the twenty-fifth anniversary of the declaration of the dogma; and, lastly, the commemoration of the Feast of Loreto.
—The Adoration on the 7th inst. served as an appropriate introduction to the great festival of the following day. A notable fact, rendering this year doubly interesting, is this: that the Silver Jubilee of the establishment of the Mother House, General Novitiate, and Academy of St. Mary’s of the Immaculate Conception coincides with the Silver Jubilee of the declaration of the great dogma of the Immaculate Conception, this institution being among the first dedicated in honor of the new title conferred upon the Blessed Virgin after the definition was proclaimed.
—The feast of the Translation of the House of Loreto was commemorated by the usual observances. The Holy Sacrifice of the Mass was offered in St. Mary’s Banta Casa, or Holy House of Loreto, at six o’clock. At this Mass, said by Rev. A. Saulnier, the community assisted. The second Mass, at which the pupils assisted, was at o’clock, and was said by Rev. Father Kelly. According to a custom observed at St. Mary’s on this feast, the various religious societies of the Academy, after Mass, partook of the “Pilgrims’ Breakfast” at Loreto. In the evening, Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament was given by Rev. Father Shortis, preceded by a clear and interesting account of the Translation, in the thirteenth century, of the Holy House of Nazareth.
—At the weekly Academic reunion .the reading of “St ifary's Chimes," edited by the young ladies of the Second and Third Senior Classes, entertained the visitors. Readers: the Misses Lloyd, Gail, Smith, and Winston. This number twas the second of the third volume, and was beau-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
253
£ r
*
lil'ully copied by the Misses Neu and Geiser. Couleuls— Editorial: Happy Convalescence; December Eighth; The Feast of the Translation; The Court of Morpheus; The Chimes of Baltimore; November 12; Words of Condolence; Transparent Veneering; High Art; A Hunt for the Authors; The Silver Jubilee of our St. Mary’s of the Immaculate Conception; Mellifluent Ode; Shells of Preternatural Loveliness; The Sunday Hexagon; Wanted; Two Fine Birthday Gifts; A Great Sensation; Gratuitous Advice; News from Over the Sea; Happy Return; Ossianic; The Immaculate Conception—Poem, by a member of the Third Senior Class, Dedicated to Very Rev. Father General. After the reading, the Rev. Chaplain commented on the articles in the paper. He alluded particularly, and in a very touching manner, to one entitled “ Nov. 12th,” in which mention is made of Rev. Father Gillespie and his connection with St. Mary’s. In another article, “ Words of Condolence,” allusion was made to Rev. Father Lilly—to use the words of the speaker, a merited tribute was paid to “ the living and the dead.” Rev. Father Zahm followed Rev. Father Shortis, in a pertinent and encouraging speech. Among the visitors at the reunion was Mr. Donnelly of Michigan City.
Roll of Honor.
SEMI-MONTHLY REPORT OF THE ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Silverthorne, Neteler, Ewing. 1st Senior Class—Misses Gordon, Cavenor, Sullivan. Danaher. Hackett, Cortright, Rosii g, Galen, Kirchner, Buck, Farrell, A. Ewing. 2d Sr. Class—Misses Herrick, Lloyd, Dillon, Winston, A. McGrath, Geiser, Mattingly, Jones, Mitchell, Neu, Joyce, Claffey, Usselman, Otto. 3d 8k. Class—Misses Fitzgerald, A. Dillon, Dallas, Roys, Gall, Bannister, Wells, McMahon, Feehan, Fox, De Lapp, Julius, Bischoff, S. Wathan, Loeber, C. Wathan, Palmer, Donnelly, English. 1st Preparatory Class—Misses Murphy, Taylor, Zahm, Stitzel, Keena; O’Connor, Lancaster, Simms, Piersol, M. Hamilton, Wall, Price, Hackley, Keyes. 2d Prep. Class—Misses Hammond, Soloman, Rasche, 8. Semmes, Papin, Horner, Thompson, Fishburne, Reinhardt, E. Hackett, Lemontey, Casey, McFadden, Halloran. 3d Prep. Class—Misses Edelen, J. Wells, E. Dallas, Garrity, Tallman, Reynolds, Cox, Moxon, W itson, Moll. Jr. Prep. Class—Misses Legnard, C. Lancaster, Duncan, L. English, Carter, Ginz, Reut-linger, Barlow, Paquette, E. Populorum. 1st Jr. Class— Misses Hale, Harrison, Hutchison, E. Papin, Considine, Clarke. 2d Jb. Class—Misses M. Fitzgerald, B. Garrity.
FRENCH.
1st Class—Misses Silverthorne, Rosing, A. McGrath, Lemontey. 2d Div.—Misses Dallas, I. Semmes, Geiser, O’Neill, Maloney, Cavenor, Neu, Cortright, A. Ewing, M. Campbell. 2d Class—Misses S. Wathen, C. Wathen, Cox german.
1st Class—Misses Gall, Usselman, Reinhardt, Soloman, Julius, Horner. 2d Class—Misses McMahon, Smith, Bischoff, Claffey, Loeber, C. Hackett, Van Namee. 3d Class—Misses M. Fitzgerald, Hamilton, Ward, Joyce. 4th Class—Misses A. Dillon, Quinn, Reutlinger, Ginz, C. Campbell, Bruser, Piersol, Stitzel, Gibbons, Duncan, Harrison, Carter, S. Semmes, Casey, Moll, Hutchison, Considine, Fleming, Zimmerman.
Tablet of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, AND CORRECT DEPORTMENT.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Silverthorne, Kilielea, McGrath, Woodin, Maloney, Ewing, Neteler, Cavenor, Sullivan, Ward, Ryan, Buck, Hackett, Galen, Cortright, Rosing, A. Ewing, Quinn, Farrell, Danaher, Kirchner, Gordon, I. Semmes, A. McGrath, Joyce, Dillon, Usselman, Otto, Mitchell, Winston, Smith, O’Neill, Mattingly, Fitzgerald, Gal), Donnelly, Bannister, De Lapp, Julius, Dallas, Loeber, Roys, Bischoff, Bruser, Wells, C. Wathen, S. Wathen, Palmer, Bassett, McMahon, Zahm, Piersol, Campbell, Keys, O’Connor, Murphy, Lancaster, Semmes, English, Hamilton Kinzie, Stitzel, Taylor, Dillon, Keena, Dessaint, Wall, Gavan, Baroux, Price, Wright, Thompson, McFadden, Horner, Rasche, Tallman, Soloman, Reinhardt, Halloran, Moxon, Edelen, par excellence. Misses Keenan, Hambleton, Lloyd, Neu, Herrick, Jones, Geiser, Callinan, Hackley, Reynolds, Hammond, Cox.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Claffey, A. Dillon, Fox, C. Campbell, French, Populorum, Van Namee, 8. Semmes, E. Hackett, Casey, Leydon, Fishburne, Joseph, Moll, G. Taylor, McCloskey, E. Ryan, C Ryan, Carter, Gibbons, C. Lancaster, Fleming, Legnard, E. i Populorum, L. English, Ginz, Paquette, Hale, Hutchison, Har- : rison, Robinson, V. Orr, M. Baroux, M. Chaves, par excellence. ; Misses Feehan, Lemontey, Papin, McN. Garrity, Wells, E. ; Dallas, Watson, Lloyd, Duncan, Reutlinger, Barlow, E. Papin, : Considine, I. Hackett, B. Garrity, M. Fitzgerald, Wilkins. '
St. Mary’s Academy,
(One Mile West of Notre Dame).
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
Conservatory of Music, under the charge of a competent corps of teachers, comprises a large music-hall, and twenty-seven seperate rooms for Harps and Pianos. A thorough course for graduation in Theory and Practice, Aesthetic Composition, large musical Library in French, German, English and Italian —four weekly lessons and daily practice, weekly lectures and recitals.	.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.
Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department. "
Prize Gold Medals awarded in the following courses:—German, French, Christian Doctrine, Painting, Drawing and Domestic Economy, in the Senior Department; and for Polite and Amiable Deportment in both the Senior and Junior Departments.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address .
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
Now Ready.
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems,
BY MAURICE JT. BOAJV.
Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame University.
Price, $1, postpaid.
j^ddrcss
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON, Philadelphia, Pa.
Copies may also be had at the Students’ Office.
L. S. & M. S. Railway
On and after Sunday, Nov. 10,1878, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 35 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo950; Cleveland 23f> p.m; Buffalo 8 * 5 p. m.
' 11 05 a.m, Mail, over Maiu Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p.m Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
13 16 i). m. Special New York Express. over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 40p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 a.m.
9 13 p.m. A' lantic Exoress. over Air Line. Arives at Toledo 2 49 a.m: Cleve and, 7 01 a m; Buffalo, 110 p.m.
4 50 and 4= p.m, Wiy Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 43 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a.m, Chicago 6a.tn.
5 05 a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 a.m, Chicago S2il a m.
4 50 p.m, Special Chicago Expres-. Arrives at Laporte 540, Chicago 8 p.m.
8 03 am, Ac ommodation. Arrives at Laporte 905 a.m; Chicago, 1130 a.m.	•
7 30 and 8 03 a.m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup't West Division., Chicago.
CHARLES_PAINE, Gen’l Supt.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
1 <
(MAIN BUILDING.)
THIS UNIVERSITY" was founded in 1842, by the Congregation of the Holy Cross, under the direction of Very Rev. E. Sorin, and was char tered by Ihe Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the midst of the fine, and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can easily be reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the Co'lege grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the recently-built railway between that place and South Bend, which runs within a half mile of the College. At the Michigan Southern Railroad depot, South Bend, omnibusses or private conveyances can be obtained.
Hie buildings are well adapted for the purposes for which they were erected. The Study-Halls, Class-Rooms, Dining-Rooms, Sleeping Apartments and Recreation-Halls are commi'dious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The Education given at Notre Dame is calculated to form both the heart and intellect of the students. Every attention is given to the'r moral and religious culture. Every day the students have an opportunity of attending classes where they may acquire a knowledge of Chris-tian Doctrine. Twice a week, lectures and instructions on religious topics are delivered to all the students together. Finally, a regular course of Dogmatic Theology is established in the University for the benefit of the more advanced students, who may desire to enter the world < having their minds stored not only with profane science but also with what is much more important—a thorough knowledge of their religion. The reliirious instruction is, of course, confined to Catholic students. The intellectual training is carried on with care and diligence by the ■ , officers and Professors of the University. The best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected ; so that no pains are spared to secure the objects which the University has in view as an educational institution.
Terms greatly reduced.
Studies were resumed at the usual time, the first Tuesday of September, but students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President,	y
Very Kev. W. CORBY, C. S. C^ Notre Dame P. 0., Indiana.