
k
Ije	tic IJear.
WEEKLY AT NOTRE DAME.
flmtd fa ihe.gtotemte of the JiidenK
“LABOR OMNIA VINCIT.”
Vol. II. UNIVEBSITY OF NOTBE DAME, IND., MARCH 6, 1869. No. 26.
A Letter from Bavaria.
The following letter is from an old student of Notre Dame, A. Boisrame, concerning whom we had long endeavored to obtain information. We are glad to see him so mindful of his friends and his Alma Mater, and hope that now and then he will enliven our columns by some interesting letters from the mountain-girt city of Kempten.
Kempten, Jan. 3,1869.
Having lately heard that Notre Dame possessed a weekly paper entitled the Ave Maria, I should be happy if you would permit me to be one of its accidental contributors. Although I do not possess any of the eminent qualities that are required to be a good foreign correspondent, yet I hope that you will be kind enough to insert this article in your commendable paper, if you do not find it too bare of interest, or too decidedly op* posed to the principles of Bullion’s Grammar.
I must confess that my English library is not at present in a very prosperous condition; a dilapidated old grammar, printed in Leipsic in the year 1776, and two small volumes of Longfellow’s poems, which were kindly lent to me yesterday, form all my English literary luggage, and I have remarked, to my shame, that several persons of this town who do not know a single word of either French or English’ possess notwithstanding a well stocked library in these two languages, and discuss voluminously upon the different books in a manner that clearly proves ’ that they are well acquainted with their respective value.
Among foreign works, Shakespeare holds, all over the continent, a prominent place. This great author has now an immense reputation both in France and Germany. His immortal plays are translated and performed in all the principal theatres of both countries, but I regret to say
that they are nearly all disfigured by the translators. Macbeth, Othello, Hamlet have become household words, and whoever does not profess a great intimacy and profound admiration for these popular heroes is instantly strongly suspected of ignorance or perverted taste, and to avoid such an accident everybody speaks very familiarly and very admiringly of Shakespeare and his works.	’
I am now living in Kempten, and consequently an inhabitant of that beautiful little Kingdom of Bavaria, whose capital, Munich, has lately won such a world wide reputation for having been the first to fully appreciate and sustain the musical genius of Wagner.
This celebrated composer has signed at least forty grand operas the last four years, among which are “ Cannhaiiser Vin Meistersanger,” etc He has made numerous discoveries and innovations in music, and has moreover written an innunferable number of pamphlets, all very advantageous to himself and very detrimental to his detractors.
Kempten is a quaint old town of about 8000 inhabitants, who are only remarkable for their equanimity, industrious habits, and love of beer. ' It is watered by Iller, a humble tributary of the Danube, and surrounded oh all sides by green hillocks, pasture lands and fine woods; and it would be a delightful vine-growing climate if the neighborhood of the mountains of Tyrol did not give us a winter as severe as in the north of Indiana.
Among modern edifices, the catholic church is the most remarkable; it has two high heavy whitewashed towers like Notre Dame of Paris, a whitewashed cupola like Saint Peter’s,' and the inside paintings and ornaments have as much pretension as those of the Sistine chapel.
It is magnificently situated on an eminence in the center of the town; and at night, when the deceiving rays of the moon change the white

202	THESCHOL
A STIC YEAR.
wash , into gray stone, then and only then it possesses a very imposing appearance.
Very poor in monumental beauties, Kempten boasts justly of her Burgh-heralde. Placed in a strong position, on a steep high bluff, this ancient castle is now only a pile of ruins. The watch-tower alone still stands up, but threatens to fall every moment. A large gray-stone, covered with Latin inscriptions, tells the learned tourist the vicissitudes of the castle.
Built in the fourth century by a powerful baron called Erghald, it became afterwards an abbey, and later a fortress, which was successively occupied, taken, retaken, destroyed, and rebuilt by the Swedes, Austrians and French.
All Saints’ Day and Christmas have been celebrated here with great religious solemnitv. 1 was astonished at the great veneration which the Germans have for the dead.
On the morning of All Saints’ Day, men, women and children were seen running to the cemetery with flowers, crowns of evergreen and ornamental plants; and a part of the afternoon was spent by the rich around the marble headstones, and by the poor around the wooden crosses, where they prayed silently with heads uncovered, watching with tears in their eyes the small tallow candle that was burning in memory of their departed relations. On that day, all the gardens and hot-houses were put to contribution to adorn the tombs; not a grave, however humble, was forgotten.
I would do a great wrong to the burghers of Kempten, if, after having told you that their church was not constructed on the purest model of architecture, I did not also tell you that the music was, notwithstanding, beautiful and good. At high Mass, especially, it is really splendid. The military band aud the solemn peals of the church organ, blending with the hundred voices of the assistants, all combine to render it grand and attractive. This reparation made, 1 hasten to terminate my remarks.
------w
Right Rev. Bishop Liters arrived at Notre Dame, Thursday, 4th inst. During his visit the Bishop will ordain to the priesthood Mr. Peter Lauth, S. 8. C.
----:—<■>
The Tobacco Plant (Scientific Department).—This fine but lengthy article has been for a few weeks past inevitably crowded out to give room to less recent contributions. It will appear 1n our next.
•	, [Revised Poems.]
V.—Summer and Youth.
By Fanciullo.
Smiling Summer skips along, ' Laden with the woodland song;
Flowers are blooming, fields are green, Naught but joy around is seen.
Rippling rills are keeping time With the evening’s merry chime;
Rushing rivers seek the main, Singing their majestic strain.
Gentle zephyrs whisper love
Through the field and shady grove;
Lively insects skip and play, . Making merry all the day.
But drear winter comes along, Nips the bud and stops the song; Robs the fields of flower and bloom, Clothing all in dreary gloom.
Then the rippling rill is bound With strong icy fetters round; Sterner rivers brave the strain Of grim Winter's icy chain.
Storms replace the gentle breeze, Naked stand th’ unmantled trees;
Trembling insects seek a hold From the season’s nipping cold.
So with youth, so blithe and gay,— Lovely as a morn in May;
- Soon old age comes on apace— Strips it of its bloom and grace.
Then poor man will feel the smar Of old age’s magic art— Stealing from his eyes their light, Changing jetty locks to white.
But Winter does not always last, Spring returns when storms are past;
So will youth, with' virtue crowned, Return as life’s swift wheel goes round.
Then one and all, with cheerful might, Pursue the path of truth and right, Aud when the cares of life are o’er, With youth more beauteous than before, To realms of endless bliss you’ll soar.
-----------------
[Correspondence of The Scholastic Year.]
Crossing the Bay of Bengal.
My last letter to you, I apprehend, was very uninteresting, arising from the fact that the port of Galle, Ceylon, contains nothing excepting that which I have recorded; but leaving the latter port brought us to the present article, which again may have no interest until we get along nearer our destination. On the 13th of February, at 5 a. m., we were the recipients of the refreshing order “All hands up anchor,” shortly after which
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR
203
we headed towards Penang Island. This run will take about fourteen days.
Feb. 14th. Bright and pleasant. Yards and topmasts sent up for sailing, as the current is adverse to our progress. At 1 p. m. the lookout at the mast-head reported a sail off our weather bow, which we could not see from deck, but shortly afterwards saw a barque to leeward.
Feb. 15th. Steaming along lazily; nothing in sight all day. Heavy rain and swell the whole night.
Feb. 16th. Fourth day out;lat 5°41'N., and long. 84° 55'. This afternoon on the spar deck forward, the “ lucky bag ” was opened. This contains all trinkets found lying around on deck during the week. The things are sold by bids, the owner who has mislaid them can buy them in or lose them by default. It is a capital idea, or the decks never could be kept in order. To-day the contents were composed of old boots, odd shoes,. neckties, jackknives, &c. . . . No vessels sighted during the day.	•
Feb. 17th. Five extra furnaces started to-day. We are making more headway now, and are just 900 miles from Penang. Found the ship’s bottom; thick with grass and barnacles—discovered while she gave a heavy lurch to leeward. This occasions such slow progress.
Feb. 18th. Lat. 5° 58', long. 88° 35'. Feel exceedingly dull and dispirited to-day. It can be accounted for by the monotony of the duties.
When the sun goes down, in the silence of the night, Oh, my heart how it sighs for home;
Yet still I would stay in my solitude away, If a change o'er her spirit would come;
For all that I prize is that light merry laugh, And my fate on her friendship depends, My heart it would break, if me she’d forsake When I greet her at home with my friends.
There;—I feel much better after that, and nd one knows but it is only home-sick—or more expressive, when stated in the German language,—heim-weh.
Feb. 19th. Lat. 6° 06', long. 90° 57'. All furnaces in operation, and we are just streaking along the waters. Captain told the chief engineer that he “ didn’t want the steamer blown up.” This was because we were going so fast. The other day, when going at a crab gait, he asked, “Are we going to a funeral ? ” We would all rather see twenty revolutions with 12 knots, than nine revolutions w’ith 3 knots. At 10 p. m. a vessel ’ passed on our starboard bow standing to westward.
Feb. 20th. Our speed continues.... Lat. 6° 06',
long. 93° 55'. At noon we are 125 miles from Penang. At 11 p. m. sighted the northern extremity of the island of Sumatra.
Feb. 21st. At 1.30 p. m. shortened sail... Passing Sumatra all morning. . . . Lat. 6° 09' long. 96° 23'. ... Early this morning a target was rigged up for great-gun practice. It was composed of sheeting ten feet high and mounted on four barrels. At 3 it was set adrift. Steamed away from it until 1500 yards intervened, when the ship was swung around to bring her starboard battery to bear on the obj ect. Twenty rounds from the rifled guns and howitzers were fired, none of which struck fair enough to destroy it. Lowered the dinghy, and brought the target alongside. It was discovered to be torn in several places by fragments of shell, and the top cross pieces parted in two. Had it been as large as a ship, our pivot guns would have knocked it “sky-er than a high.”
Feb. 22nd. Fired a national salute of 21 guns in respect to the memory of Washington. His' spirit must have complained, for it was badly and irregularly done. ... At 9.45 sighted an island ahead. At 1 p. m. sighted a sail off starboard bow. At 12.50 came up to the island, and when within a mile of it, slowered down the engine and stopped. This island is called Pulo Pera. Two boats’ crews were sent over, and brought off immense quantities of eggs. The birds are similar to the duck, and the island is positively covered with them. A ship a hundred times as large as this could be filled with eggsand squabs. These eggs are more bitter than gall, but when a sailor has nothing but pork and “ hard-tack ” for more than a week since leaving port, he can eat" “a dead child that died with the smallpox.” This quotation is their own, and I do not desire the credit of its origin. At 4 started ahead again, shortly after which our wheel-ropes parted, rendering the ship for a while unmanageable. A spare one was soon rigged and we were soon on our course again.
Feb. 23d. Land in sight at daylight. At 8 took a Mohammedan aboard. At 11 came to anchor in Penang harbor. The place is swarmed with shaved-head Mohammedans, Chinese junks and bum-boats. All these junks have eyes painted on the bows, and it is the Chinese people’s belief and saying, that “ No eye, no can see; No see, no savez.” I would like to describe Penang, and will. Faugh!!! It is the ugliest and meanest place in the world;—land low, and sickening;
i
u
to*
-
204
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
population composed of Oriental trash,—and no more can be said for it, unless derogatory to the people residing at the place.	’
Geo. F. B. Collins.
Our Exchanges.
The following Exchanges of the. Scholastic O	D
Year are now before us—each having its own peculiar claim to our attention.
Yale Literary Magazine.—The February No., (No. 4, vol xxxiv,) of this spirited monthly is before us. The leading article: “ T. Jones Esquire’s Elephant,” is a stroke in the right spot. Another: “ Two Flaws in the System,” we consider particularly good, although we are not prepared to go the whole distance with the acute writer. In his first proposition wTe agree fully with him, that more cordial relations should exist between Faculty and Students, than usually do in colleges. But that the Faculty should be deprived of all power (save the power to dismiss a student), we cannot sanction; for a greater power than this is often beneficial to the student himself, and, where cordial relations exist, the exercise of power by the Faculty rarely goes beyond moderation.
The Northwestern Chronicle.—Published weekly by Devereux & Tell, Saint Paul, Minn.,‘ is a family newspaper of a very high character. Its matter this week is interesting and instructive. We heartly recomend this valuable paper.
The Guardian Angel, published monthly in Philadelphia, by D. F. Gillen, J. P. McGuigan and M. I. J. Grifiin. • This excellent little journal for the young, though not a “ College paper” is yet calculated to promote the object which every college should have in view, viz: to improve the mind and morals of the young. The February number, now before us, is full of interesting, instructive and moral reading matter suited for children. All should take the Guardian Angel.
The College Courant, published weekly at Yale College, by Charles C. Chatfield, Editor and Publisher. The present number, No. 6, Vol. IV, fully justifies the reputation enjoyed by this excellent college paper. Its articles are of a high literary character and full of useful information.
The Indiana Student, published semi-monthly at the Indiana State University, under the aus
pices of the Senior and Junior Classes. No 6 of Vol. Ill is before us and enlists our sympathy^by the youthful freshness of its articles. There is, however, in our opinion, a little too much of the “jovial and free” and not quite enough of the “ sober” in the present number. But we cannot expect to find “ old heads on young shoulders.”
Eureka College Vidette, published monthly at Eureka, Illinois. No. 2 of the lid Vol. has been received. This little paper contains some interesting reading matter, considerable college news, and lots of religious squabble—its editors have evidently made up their mind to let the people knowr what denomination they belong to.
The Targum.—Published monthly at Rutgers College, New Brunswick, N. J., and edited by members selected from the Literary and Scientific Societies. We hail with pleasure this new college journal; and, judging from the articles in No. 2 of Vol. I, we predict for it a successful cource.
College jBtjzlzzlzetizzv.
Arrival of Students at ZN. Dame.
February 20th.
E. N. Thomson, Valparaiso, Indiana. February 23d.
Samuel C. Hoover, Lafayette, Indiana.
February 24th.
John W. Ryan, Terre Coupee, Indiana.
February 26th.
John Louis Marshall, Louisville, Kentucky.
. February 27th.
Henry C. Barlow, Dayton, Ohio.
Joseph C. Page, Nashville, Tennessee.
March 1st.
Jeremiah O’Connell, Chicago, Illinois.
James B. Carroll, New York, N. Y. ’
March 2d.
Peter Hohler, Monroeville, Ohio. ’ March 3d.
Major C. Harris, Sturgis, Michigan.
Tables of Honor.
Minim Department. •
G. Berry, W. Byrne, J. Ford, J. McDermott, A. Philips, H. Voorhees.

- i -	-	-—
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	205
Honorable Mention, Minim Department,
Grammar.
First Class.—George Lyons, E. Lyons, F. Obert, George Trussell.
Second, Class.—George Jenkins, H. Jones J. Chandonai.
Third, Class.—C. Bleazy, G. Berry, C. Canysan, W. Emonds.
An Excursion of the St. Cecilia Philo* mailman Society to Niles.
Wednesday, February 24, 1869.
।
►
Mr. Editor :
Were you ever on an excursion with students ? Of course you were. But was it with half a hundred gio wingyouths, yourself as much a boy as they, all bursting wild from college? “Ah! there’s the rub.” And if you were not, I can assure you that you have one golden pleasure still to enjoy. Perhaps you would be pleased with a little chat concerning one that visited Niles on Wednesday last. At 8 o’clock, carriages drawn by horses gaily plumed for the occasion arrived from South Bend. In a few minutes the St. Cecilians rolled into the gliding cars, shouting, not exactly the “Battle-Cry of Freedom,” but farewell to studies for that day; and such a rolling and packing of boys was never seen. They were thick, thicker, thickest, especially in the first carriage, under the charge of the Vice President, Mr. J. F. Ryan, the soul of everything fine. And so we passed from Indiana to Michigan—from the ancient towm of Bertrand (now known in history as being the place where Stacius Jr. placed the best scenes of his drama, “ The Prince of Portage Prairie ”) to where the spires of Niles wrelcome us from a distance. Soon we were winding over the beautiful streets of the city; now along that fine bank above the river, now through crowded business streets, until we arrived at the Bond House. Though our large party was unexpected, a generous table was soon spread before us, to which I need hardly say ample justice was done by youthful appetites which never knew a fear of that “bugbear” Indigestion. Dinner over, there was another feast, a real literary one. The President of the Association rose and addressed the members briefly on their success this year, on their gentlemanly deportment, etc. After this, Mr. Mark Foote, Secretary of the Association, rose and read the
firsttoast, “The day we celebrate;” responded to by the President of the Association. The second toastwas, “VeryRev.E.Sorin,thefounderofNotre Dame University, and Superior General of the Order of Holy Cross—Long may he live.” Responded to in a touching manner in a speech of some length by Rev. Father Lemonnier. Third toast, “ The President of the United States; whatever may have been the party that elected him, let us rally around him as the representative of our liberties.” Responded to by Mr. D. J. Wile, in an eloquent and pointed speech. Fourth toast, “The Press—may it long enjoy its present liberty> and never be made the instrument of demoralization and sedition.” Responded to briefly by Mr. Shakspeare, editor of the Niles Democrat. 5th toast, “ Ireland: the land of Orators, Poets, Statesmen, and Christian Warriors. May soon the epitaph of Emmett be written.” Responded to by James Curran of the Senior Department, in an eloquent and patriotic speech. Before he concluded he said “ that there . were several rising orators in the St. Cecilia Association, and as Mr. Michael Mahony, a live-Celt, was present, he would like to hear him speak.” Whereon Mr Mahony arose, and, after a few remarks, delivered by request the “ Brigade at Fontenoy,” with his usual animated manner. Sixth toast, “ Our Sister Societies.” Responded to by Prof. C. Von Weller, who paid a glowing tribute to their progress. Seventh toast, “ The St. Caecilia Philo-mathean Society.” Responded to by Mr. James F. Ryan, in a neat and appropriate speech. Eighth toast “The Archconfraternity. .May it continue to be the great Religious Association of the University.” Responded to briefly by Mr. Peter McKeon, of the Senior Department. Ninthtoast “ Our religious Associations of the Junior Collegiate Department; may they always continue to be the flower of the College. ” Responded to, by Mr. James F. Edwards, also of the Senior Department, in a very tasty manner.	’
Tenth, “ Our college days; the brightest in our memories;” responded to by Master Rufns McCarthy in a short but witty speech. Eleventh toast, “ Our fellow-students—the glory of the United States.” The President called upon Marcus Foote to respond to this toast, which he did in an elegant and appropriate manner, to the great delight of all. When he had concluded, he was called upon to recite the Excursio levis legionis, and he delivered it in such a fine manner as to receive great applause. Twelfth toast: “ The Science and Art of Music,”—responded to by
206	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
Vincent Hackmann, who also sang one of his many beautiful songs. Mr. Hackmann’s voice seemed to us this time to be sweeter and more melodious than w’e ever heard it before. After Mr. Hackmann had resumed his seat, amidst rounds of applause, Mr. Robert Staley was loudly called for. Whereon he arose, and after delivering a very creditable little speech, he sang by request one of his choicest songs. He was loudly applauded. Thirteenth toast, “ Our Alma Mater. May she always continue to be the pride of the West, cherished by the fond care of her Superiors and the love and veneration of her students.” Responded to by Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M.
Fourteenth toast, “ The City of Chicago and the Velocipede.” Responded to by Mr. C. Bur-dell, whose remarks, though brief, excited our risible' faculties. He concluded by a spicy recitation entitled “The Western Mosquito.” The Fifteenth toast, “ The Memory of 1868-69. May its lessons and progress be the forerunner of tyumph to all of us, and may the great Silver Jubilee which will adorn its cycle be a new and glorious era in the history of our Alma Mater,”— responded to in a very feeling manner by Rev. Father Lemonnier, who said he was very sorry that Rev. Father Corby, the President of the University, was not here to respond to this toast, as he would do it in the most .appropriate and fitting manner. After some advice to the students, concerning the close of this Session, and congratulating the members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, he concluded by announcing the hour for returning to the college. After giving great applause to their much beloved Director, and Vice-President of Notre Dame> Rev. A. Lemonnier, the members dispersed to see the city, and at the appointed time they bade adieu to the beautiful and friendly city of Niles, the scene of so many happy days to us at Notre Dame. The ride home was joyful, and as cheer after cheer arose on nearing the college we all felt that such a day was one of a thousand, a bright memory to gladden our hearts down to future years. -
Happy the college IwyI did he prize his bliss, ’Twere ill exchanged for all the dazzling gems That gaily sparkle in Ambition’s eye, His are the joys of nature, his the smile, The Cherub smile of innocence and health; Sorrow unknown: or, if a tear be shed, He wipes it soon, for hark! the cheerful voice Of comrades calls to meeting or to Lyons. . --------------------«»-----
The Monthly Bulletins will be sent to the parents during the course of the following week.
Philharmonic Association.
This Association, one of the most popular musical societies of Notre Dame, held its semi-annual election of officers on the evening of Feb. 14th, which resulted as follows:
Director, Prof. M. T. Corby, A. M.; President, M. S Ryan; VicePresident, S. Corby; Secretary, J. A. O’Reilly; Corresponding Secretary, .7. M Moriarty; Treasurer, W. P. Rhodes; Librarian, Ivo W. Buddeke; First Censor, F. Ingersoll; Second Censor, H. B. Reeler
The Society, under the immediate management of Prof. M. T. Corby, has popularized music at Notre Dame. There are at present over fifteen members in the Society, all possessing good voices of two and three years’ practice. The First Tenors are under the supervision of the Director, while the Second Tenors are taught by Professor W. J. Ivers; and the First and'Second Basses by Brothers Joseph and Leopold.
Since the beginning of the scholastic year the Society has mastered many choruses, such as the even-voiced compositions of Mozart, Keichen, Krentzer, Abt, etc., some of which were performed on the evening of the 22d of February.
J. M. Moriarty, Cor. Sec.
St. Edward’s Literary Society.
This Society held its regular literary meeting on Tuesday evening, 16th inst., and after the transaction of business and the remarks of the critic on the exercises of the preceding session, Mf. D. Clarke read an essay: “ Thoughts on New Year’s Eve?’ From the title, the hearer might think that Mr. Clarke was nearly two months behind time; but the thoughtsit conveyed were good for any season of the year. It was written in a pleasing style, though at times it almost bordered on the melancholy. It brought before the mind, in a natural manner, regrets for the misspent past, with the recollection of the loved but departed friends of years gone by, and bright hopes for the future. Both the sentiments and style were alike creditable to the head and heart of the writer.
Mr. A. W. Arrington came next and read a lengthy essay on “ The Injurious Effects of Novel Reading.” He met all the arguments that are offered in favor of this practice, admitting that it was a source of amusement, and that some few novels might improve the style; yet he proved to our satisfaction that the pleasure and improvement was overbalanced by the secret poison the majority of novels instil into the hearts of the young.
Mr. A. B. White next took the stand, and read an essay. Subject: “Thoughts on Man and Nature.” Without wishing to institute any comparison, we can say with perfect sincerity that this was the finest imaginative production we have heard read in' the Society. Mr. White’s description of natural scenery was simply grand, his similes original, and his moral reflections in keeping with the whole. •
Mr. L. B. Logan came forward and rendered “ Mark Antony’s Apostrophe over the dead body of Cassar.” Mr. Logan’s delivery is very good. By payi- g some attention to his gestures he will in time become a good declaimer.
Mr. T. Ewing, the last performer of the evening, delivered a speech, choosing for his subject “Centralization and Civilization of the Nineteenth Century.” From the manner in which he handled his subject it is evident that Mr. Ewing is a close student of history. '
The hour of adjournment having arrived, we separated, well pleased with the pleasure and profit derived from the exercises of the evening.	'	.	'	"
Reporter.
The Honorable Mentions, discontinued since the Examination, will be published in future as they were formerly.	.
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	207
St. Cecilia Philomathean Association.
The seventeenth regular meeting of this Society was held Monday, Feb 1st. The order of exercises vas as follows: reading Essays, delivering Speeches, Kecitations, etc. Master J. Nash came forward and read an essay on “ Man," after which he was unanimously elected a member of the .Association. Then came Master Dooley, who read a very well written essay on “ Selfishness.” Master V. Hackmann was next called upon to represent his branch, which he did in a carefully prepared essay abounding in fine thoughts on “ Music.” Tiie essay reflects great credit on the youthful writer, and augurs much for him as a rising musician. Master P. O’Connell, on ‘’History,” Master C. Maran-tette on “ The Duty we owe our Parents,” acquitted themselves with credit in neatly written compostions. Next on the programme were the Declamations. Master C. Burdell “brought down the house ” while rendering the “Battle of the Mosquitoes.” Master Robert Staley appeared next, and astonished us not a little at “ Ills Leap for Life.” .Master P. O’Connell then delivered with effect “Bernardo and Alphonso.” AH the recitations were very well committed to memory.
The eighteenth regular meeting was held Tuesday, Feb. 16th. At this meeting Masters James McGuire and Frank Spencer presented themselves for membership, and after performing the usual duties required of them by the Society, they were unanimously elected members. This over. Master James Deehan rose and read an essay on the “American Indian.” Then came Master Mahony on “Hunger is the best Sauce,” and iMaster W. Clarke on the “Twenty-fourth of June,” or, “CommencementDay ” All which essays were prepared with taste and care. Several declamations were then given by volunteers.
The nineteenth regular meeting was held Saturday evening, February 20th. At this meeting, Master R McCarthy read a very well written essay on “ Perseverance.” By the manner in which he treated the subject,, he showed that at no far distant day with a little “Perseverance” he will become an excellent essayist, and we shall hear of him in the literary world. The next one announced was Master J. F. Ryan, who rose and read a masterly composition on “ Elocution ” It was well arranged and contained much useful and practical information. Master Ryan is a pleasing reader and a graceful speaker, and if he practice the art of Elocution he will make bis mark as an orator.' Then followed the declamations. Masters F. P. Dwyer, Nash and Hutchings did very well, and with a little attention will make rapid improvement in Elocution. Those who deserve special mention for retentive memory, pleasing gestures and good delivery at this meeting, are as follows: Masters D. J. Wile. Mark Foote, C Burdell, R. Staley, G. McCartney and H. O’Neill. We ’ must not omit to mention here the name of Master Harold Hayes, who, after reciting inavery graceful manner the “Suliote • Mother,” was elected a member of the Association.
«»»
decent Publications.
Poems bt Alfred W. Arrington, with a Sketch of his Character, and a Memoir. Chicago: E. B. Myers, 1869.
This is the title of a book of no ordinary merit. The grand thoughts which these poems express— the manly beauty of the style in which they are written, mark them as the scintillations of a mighty genius, while the scrupulous purity of the language and thought, make them welcome to the most delicate mind. But the chief interest of this book lies in the fact that it displays the
multiform genius and natural disposition's of the writer in a distinct and striking manner. Thus, the poem entitled: “ The Wanderer in the West,” portrays his youth of that ardent, fearless nature, which, under proper influence, rises to eminence and real uobility; but, if once enticed into the path of dissipation and wrong, would have been capable of auything desperate. The author recognizes this fact, in the following lines, taken from that part of the poem which describes, allegorically, the passage from youth to manhood, (p. 32, last stanza):
“ My boat escaped ;—I know not how It made the flying leap so well.”
On page 37 (two last stanzas,) he pointsout the influence which saved his ardent disposition from wreck in early life:	.
“ Not all alone, but half exiled!
An Angel seated by my side,	•
’ With such dear love and pity smiled,
I knew she was my spirit’s bride;
Alas l her task was hard, to save My soul from doubt, so seldom free.”
In “The Unseen” (page 66) we discover, all through, the giant mind grasping and reading with penetrating glance the deep and often concealed secrets of nature’s philosophy, while the ardent aspirations of his great soul after something above what the senses can comprehend, are evident in the “ Hymn to the Unknown,” (page 126), and in the “ Hymn to Mary,” (page 62). That his philosophy was r.ot mere theory, as is too often the case with n-asoners, is shown by the manly resignation expressed in the poem “ To Adrian that was,” (page 5). Here, while he expresses the natuial grief of a father for the loss of a dear son, he bows with submission to the decrees of an all-seeing Providence.
Thus far we have seen the strong, the mastering side of this great character; but turning to the poems: “To Flora,” (.page 1)—“To Genevieve,” (page 7)—and “The Father to his Daugh ter,” (page 12), we discover a heart as large and vigorous as the mind which ruled it. The closing stanza of the last mentioned poem sketches in a few words the real character of the man :
‘•Love for love—the grand equation Round the arch of nature’s dome, Squares the circle of creation,
Realizes heaven and home ”	*
Yes, he could bear a heavy blow of affliction, provided it did not come from a beloved object, or imply a slight upon his affection ; but to receive no return for affection bestowed, would have been torture insufferable—he would have “ love for love.'"	■

.208
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR
Thus we trace the character and natural disposition of the man in his writings, and we would not have been deprived of the pleasure of reading for ourselves this rare combination of noble qualities, for ten times the cost of the book which contains them, and hence we need not say that we recommend “Arrington’s Poems” to all lovers of the truly beautiful and elevating in literature. No library is complete, and no parlor table is well adorned without them. Read and see.
Fanciullo.
Mentions are requested for next week in the Classes of Moral Philosophy, Logic, Rhetoric, Composition, Grammar, Orthography, Penmanship, Jr., Geography.
ML S. & N. I. RAILROAD.
Going Ekst:
Leave South Bend, 8:35 a. m. “	11:10 a. m.
"•	“	8:06 p. in.
“	“	12:19 a. m.
Arrive at Toledo, 4:26 p. m.
“	••	5:00 p.	m.
“	“	1:55 a.	iu.
“	“	6:15 a.	m.
Going West :
Ltaie South Bend, 6:12 a. m.
. ••	“	6:40 p.	m.
“	“	2:42 a.	m.
«	“	4:10 a.	m.
Arrive at Chicago, 10:00 a.tn. “	“ 10:00 p. m
“	“ 6:30 p.m.
“	Laporte, 5:48 a. m.
^aint Raby’s Academy,
St. Marv’s, Feb. 16th, 1869.
Arrivals.
March 1st, Miss M. Grier, Chicago, Illinois. ‘March 2d, Miss L. Marshall, Chicago, Illinois.
Tables of Honor, Sr.
Misses J. Byers, K. Armstrong, E. Rogers, A. Walker, M. Tuberty, E. Williams, M. Sherland, H. Sprochnle, J. Davis, J. Denny, L. Blaizy, A. Bryson.
Honorable Mention, Sr.
Graduating Class.—Misses E. Longsdorf, K. Livingston, A. Ewing, E. Crouch, K. Cunnea, M. Livingston.
First Class:—Misses J. Hynds. A. Carmody, A. Cunnea, A. Radin, E. Kirwan, L. McManaman, E. Ewing, M. Alexander.
Second Class.—Misses S. Thomson, E. Bland, R. Rettig, C. Foote, E. Lindsay, L. English, N. Leoni, A. Carpenter, N. Thompson, S. Gleeson, L. Chouteau, K. Carpenter, T. Vanhorn, E. Smith, K. Young, BL Neil, E. Livingston, L. Leoni, M. Kirwan.
Third Class.—Misses M. Dillon, L. Ramsdell, E. Ruger, R. Joslin, F. Stevens, E. Williams, E. Hill U. Gill.	’
Prep.—Misses A. Mast, S. O’Brien, M. Foote, E. Darst, E. Lonergan, L. Barnett, E. Henry.
Second Preparatory.—Misses H. Sprochnle, M. ! O'Toole, K. O’Toole, M. Clune, M. Vanhorn, Mt j Minor, E. Ritter, K. Moore.
{	Third Preparatory.—Misses C. and R. Hoerber,
M. Rumely, E. Price, M. Coffey, A. Dinges, E. Seiler, E. Whitfield, E. Spillard, T. R. Fox.
French.
First Claes:—Misses K. Livingston, M. Carmody.
Second Class:—Misses M. Shirland, K. Carpenter, A. Walker, J. Hynds.
Fourth Class :—M. La Brash, N. Gross, K. Tell. German.
First Class.—Misses C. and R. Hoerber, E. Ruger. '	Piano.
First Class.—Miss E. Longsdorf.
Second Div.—Miss M. Sherland.
Second Class.—Misses N. Thompson, M. Walton.
Second Div.—Misses E. English, E. Plamondon.
Third Class.—Misses S. O’Brien, E. Ruger, R. Rettig.
Fourth Class.—Misses B. Meyers, T. Lafferty, M. Foote.
Second Div.—Misses E. Crouch, G. Thomson.
Fifth Class.—Miss M. Bader.
Sixth Class.—Miss M. La Brash.
Seventh Class.—Miss A. Longley.
Eighth Class.-^liss R. Fox.
Harp.—E Longsdorf.	.
Guitar.—N. Tabor.
Vocal Music.
Misses M. Walton, M. Wilder, M. Edwards, E A. Carmody, M. Rumely, M. Sherland, E. Smith, L. Boss.
Drawing.
Misses K. Young, M. Bader, E. Kirwan, E. Carr.
Table of Honor, Jr.
Misses B. Meyers, B. Frensdorf, A. Woods, A. Roberts, L. James, F. Taylor, R. Leoni, B. Wilson, B. Henry, N. Strieby, N. Price, M. Reynolds.
Honorable Mention. .
Second Preparatory.—Misses A. Clark, L. Neil, W. Gross, M. Durant, M. Bader, A. Metzger, V. Jones.	’
Third Preparatory.—Misses M. Letourneau, L. Thomson, M. and L. McNamara, Q. Wilder, J. Walton, M. O’Meara, A. Garrity.
First Class Jr.—Misses M. Roberts, J. Byrne, A. Longley, M. Nash.
Second Class Jr.—Misses K. Farmer, R. Canoil.