Jotre Dame Scholastic.
Disce Quasi semper victiiras ; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, SEPTEMBER 13, 1879.
Number 2.
>
[Selected.]
The Gold of Hope.
Bright shines the sun, but brighter after rain;
The clouds that darken make the sky more clear;
So rest is sweeter when it follows pain, And the sad parting makes our friends more dear.
’Tis well it should be thus; our Father knows
The things that work together for our good;
We draw a sweetness from our bitter woes— We would not have all sunshine if we could.
The days, with all their beauty and their light, Come from the dark, and into dark return;
Day speaks of earth, but heaven shines through the night, Where in the blue a thousand star-fires burn.
So runs the law, the law of recompense, That binds our life on earth and heaven in one;
Faith cannot live when all is sight and sense, But Faith can live and sing when these are gone.
We grieve and murmur, for we can but see The single thread that flies in silence by ;
When if we only saw the things to be, Our lips would breathe a song, not sigh.
Wait, then, my soul, and edge the darkening cloud With the bright gold that Hope can always lend;
And if to-day thou art with sorrow bowed, Wait till to-morrow, and thy grief shall end.
And when we reach the limit of our days, Beyond the reach of shadows and of night, Then shall our every look and voice be praise To Him who shines, our everlasting light.
Education in Catholic and Non-Catholic Colleges Contrasted.
We have from time to time endeavored to show that the meaning of the term education as generally understood, or rather misunderstood, in this country of late years, falls below the mark, and that the mere drawing out of the intellectual faculties does not constitute an education. Day after day, and week after week, the press in commenting on the police reports and educated rascality in high places, shows that no matter how much people may wish to shut their eyes to the fact, the stern truth stares them in the face. A few years ago, a man who would attempt to draw attention to the fact that Godless education could not fail to produce such evils, would be sneered at as a cynic, and made the butt of ridicule. Now, however, the seed of licentiousness then sown begins to bear fruit, and the scoffers are appalled at the sorry harvest of sin and shame that
everywhere meets their eyes. Will they attempt to remedy the ’evil? Many, we fear, will not; or if they do, they will not go to the root of it. It behooves those, however, who would preserve their progeny from like evils to take measures in time, or greater evils will surely follow in the not very distant future. Those who have read the bitter comments of the President of Dartmouth College should not fail to mark the fact that the deterioration in manners and morals, the throwing off of parental control and disre- ’ gard of educational discipline, began with the present Godless system of education in non-Catholic schools and colleges, and that the education received in the latter produces entirely contradistinctive results. Twist or distort them as you will, these are facts. Although we cannot deny that the spirit of the age and the effect of evil associations beyond the college walls have a strong counteracting tendency, the education in our Catholic colleges has produced excellent results. This is acknowledged even by those who give the meed of praise with some feeling of regret, and who would prefer to have their children educated elsewhere if equal advantages were derived. Non-Catholics^visiting Notre Dame have often told us that they were charmed by the conduct of the young people educated here and at St. Mary’s, and that if they had children to educate they would send them here in preference to all other institutions with which they were acquainted. The cause of this may be inferred from President Bartlett’s remarks regarding some of the principal non-Catholic colleges of the country, which he names. We have not seen his paper, but the following article from the Catholic Review gives an idea of it :
EDUCATION IN PROTESTANT ESTABLISHMENTS.
An interesting and very important discussion concerning the higher education of Catholic youth arose in England last year. The Rev. Mr. Petre, a Catholic priest, and, we believe, a member of the respectable English Catholic family of Petre, was the originator of the discussion. He complained that the Catholic system of education was not really liberal. It cramped the nature and intellectual endowments of the boy. It subjected him to constant supervision and a system of espionage foreign to the English nature and habits of thought. It seemed afraid to trust him to himself, and sent him out incapacitated to take the manly stand of young men from the higher non-Catholic educational establishments. Moreover, the Catholic professors were, as a rule, below the standard of the professors in the non-Catholic institutions.
Dr. Ward, in the Dublin Review, took upon himself the chief burden of the answers to Mr. Petre. He denied that the education of Catholic youth was lower than that of Protestants. He denied that the Catholic system of education produced young men less robust in character and
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
training than others. He resented the word espionnage as applied to the careful supervision exercised by Catholic professors over the youths under their charge. He went farther, and maintained that even if that supervision were far more exacting than where it is most exacting, such supervision would be infinitely preferable to the freedom allowed in non-Catholic establishments, which, he alleged, resulted in the moral corruption of the greater part of those trained in such establishments. This startling charge he fortified with numerous proofs drawn from parliamentary and other unimpeachable documents, as well as from his own extensive personal experience. The reply of Dr. Ward was, we regret to say, crushing; we regret to say it because it is sad to think that young men should set out in the world by having tasted fully of the knowledge of evil.
Such are the bare outlines of the controversy, which is now ended. In this country there have been exhibited during the past year many side proofs corroborative of Dr. Ward’s strong position. College riots, misbehavior, and general insubordination, have furnished frequent items of the news of the day; the colleges in which they occurred being one and all non-Catholic, some of them clerical establishments. Public feeling was shocked and scandalized, and the Rev. Dr. Bartlett, President of Dartmouth College, has this week dealt with the subject in a long article in The Independent.
He begins by stating that “ the past two years have been marked by an epidemic of college disorders.” He attributes “part of the melodramatic aspect of the case” to “ the sensational press reporter.” He confesses, however, that “ there has been an unusual epoch of disorders—at Princeton, Williams, Amherst, Dartmouth, Trinity, Harvard, California, and other colleges and universities, reaching even the Military School at West Point,” so that the “ sensational reporter ” may be dismissed as a very poor scape-goat President Bartlett, however, takes comfort in the strange fact that “it is not true that worse things are done now than formerly.” People, fathers and mothers, who intrust their children, body and soul, to the care of these institutions, will find small consolation in this. They are concerned with the confessedly bad things that are done now, and Dr. Bartlett’s cautiously worded con-trast*between now and forty years ago is very weak and futile. Now, he tells us, “there is less gross vice and violence; more of morality and appearance of religion.” That is not the point. The point is this: there is vice, more or less gross, and violence; and the “appearance of religion” is a very vague phrase. A Catholic president who could make no better defence than this of a college under his charge, were it attacked, might as well advertise the place “ to let ” to-morrow, as Catholic parents would, beyond a doubt, at once remove their children from his charge.
“The young men in our Colleges,” he says, “are undoubtedly the flower of our youth, both in intellect and character.” Well, let us see what fruit comes of the flower. “ The average is high. In general, no more honorable and high-minded companies can be found, and when moral, and religious influences are exerted, no more receptive or hopeful soil could be asked.” But most of the institutions he names are chiefly devoted to preparation for the call to the ministry, so that, from a Protestant point of view, there • is no lack of “moral and religious influences.” The conclusion is obvious: the moral and religious influences in
those establishments fail in great part, and the failure is accounted for by President Bartjett: “ They enjoy a freedom f' em supervision that to most of them is new and tempting." So much for the efficiency of non-Catholic supervision.
. Indeejd, the entire conduct of these Colleges has come to a serious pass. “The late disturbances,” says Dr. Bartlett, “ have passed beyond individual follies, and taken the form of riotous combinations and demonstrations.” He goes on to classify them in a manner unnecessary to quote. It is strange at this late day to find the President of Dartmouth College insisting that “ it is important that young men in the highest institutions of learning be trained to habits of subordination to authority ,and the observance of the laws of gentlemanly intercourse.” Important! Surely it is more than important. Is it not absolutely necessary ? What can a Catholic think of this, coming from such an authority ?—“ Students are not in their class-day exercises to make offensive allusions to some estimable young lady, or exhibit themselves overcome with strong drink; proclaim in print the government of some neighboring and excellent college, like Williams, to be ‘ a hellish despotism,’ sing insulting songs to an over-faithful instructor, nor give horn serenades to the principal of some young ladies’ school, or some newly-married couple. Our high institutions of learning will have deserved but ill of the community if they give us educated rowdies.”
All our Catholic colleges may not be; and are not, all that we could desire in point of intellectual status; for we are yet young and poor, and intellectual training requires long years of patient labor and large endowments to carry out well-devised plans. But they are certainly not hot-beds of vice or training schools for “educated rowdies.” They are saved from this by the wise supervision which Mr. Petre strangely deplored. Nor does this supervision pass beyond reasonable bounds. Our Catholic boys are free enough and happy enough and manly enough. They have precisely the same natural impulses as the young men at Dartmouth and elsewhere. It would be worth Dr. Bartlett’s while to satisfy himself as to the real difference in moral status that exists between students at Catholic and nonCatholic colleges, and to account for the difference.
Two Modern Irish. Composers.
X	___
Erin in days of old was a land of poetry and song; her poets, bards and senachies were among the first in Europe, excepting only those of Greece and Rome, as we are told by such historians as have studied some of the remnants of ancient lore that have escaped the long and serious devastations of the Danes and the no less barbarous burnings and pillages of the English. Fragments of the old Erse and the more modern Latin and Irish poetry that have come down to us confirm the high estimate of archmologists, and it may be that the strong impulse lately given the study of the Gaelic language by European scholars will bring forth many old MS. from their receptacles and throw further light upon Irish literature in the days when Ireland was the school of Europe.
Later on, notwithstanding the ban placed upon education by the English oppressor, Ireland had not a few poets and song writers who attained considerable, eminence, and one of these—Moore—whose centenary was lately celebrated, obtained a world-wide reputation. Thomas Davis, James
A
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	19
rt.
Clarence Mangan, and a number of others, have attained eminence as writers of song. A lengthy essay might be written on the merits of these, and samples of their impassioned writings might be given that would show they are less known than their merits deserve. We will not dwell on these at present, however, but will take a glance at - some of Ireland’s modern composers of eminence, foremost
among whom are Wallace, Balfe, and Rooke.
’ WILLIAM VINCENT WALLACE,
as we learn from a lecture lately delivered by Sir Robert Stewart in Dublin, was born at Waterford in 1814. His career reads like a romance. Wallace was so musically precocious that he became organist at the Catholic church of Thurles at the early age of fifteen, and before his sixteenth year was completed, and while yet in his boy’s clothes, he became violinist and leader of the orchestra at the Hawkins-street theatre. Becoming weary of the stagnation of affairs in Ireland, young Wallace emigrated in 1835 to Australia and there buried himself in obscurity in the bush for a considerable time. Being induced to give concerts in Sydney, he came forth from his solitude and completely convulsed the city by his wonderful performances, attaining uuparalelled success. The Govenor of the countiy paid his admission fee in the shape of a hundred sheep. Wallace next crossed over to the island of Tasmania, and travelled through that country. Falling into the hands of the native savages, he was saved after the manner of John Smith in colonial times, by the chiefs daughter. From here he went to the East Indies, and played before the Queen of Gude, who presented him with valuable gifts, praised his musical powers, and showed him every mark of respect. South America became the next scene of his musical performances, which were attended in Chili with their merited success. At Santiago the entrance fee consisted of everything imaginable: even gamecocks of great value were presented for payment at the door. From this novel way of acting on the part of the populace, young Wallace netted over $3,000 for a single night. In Lima a single concert brought him the round sum of $5,000.
Quitting the productive countries of South America, Wallace passed into Mexico, where he composed and produced his Grand Mass with prodigious success; our composer was the recipient of such honors there as were seldom awarded to anyone. Thence he came to the Southern States, where he at once became a favorite. His romantic and dreamy style enchanted everybody who appreciated music, and his unassuming manner won their confidence. He returned to London in 1845. Meeting Hayward St. Leger, he once asked him, as if half in j est: “ Could I compose an opera ? ”
“ To be sure you could, twenty! ” was the reply.
“ But what shall I do for a libretto ? ”
“ St. Leger conducted him on the moment to the house of Fitzball, who had just completed the libretto of “Mar-itana.” The music was furnished, “Maritana” made its appearance, and the musical world knows what success attended it
Passing from England into France, Wallace made friends wherever he put his foot, and was commissioned to write an opera for the Grand Opera House at Paris. His sight failing him, however, he was compelled to abandon his pen for a time.
Germany, too, enjoyed the presence of our artist, and here he also met with great success and received every mark
of attention. He next visited the United States, and after spending one season with us repaired again to London, where he produced in 1860 “ Lurline,” his best work, the overture of which was lauded all over the globe as a perfect classic production.
But death was now on his track, and in his fiftieth year claimed him as his prey. The great composer sank into his rest in 1864, and the world mourned the loss of a great composer, a friend to the poor and benighted, and a brilliant light of the musical and operatic world.
We now turn our attention to another modem composer even more remarkable than the one of whose career we ■ have just attempted a brief outline.
MICHAEL W. BALFE
was born in Pitt Street, in the city of Dublin, on the fifteenth of May, 1808. It seems that Balfe’s father was a Protestant, but his mother was a Catholic. As sometimes happens in the case of mixed marriages, the boys went with the father and the girls with the mother; this is, of course contrary to the rules of the Catholic Church in regard to mixed marriages, but we simply give the present case as it was. There is no doubt, however, but that young Balfe eventually became a Catholic.
His tuition was intrusted to a man by the name of O-Rorke, and at the age of nine he composed a pretty ballad. Left an orphan at the early age of thirteen, he shortly after was taken to London, where he was fortunate enough to recommend himself to Count Mazzari, a Roman noble, who brought him to sunny Italy and bestowed special marks of kindness upon him. He was petted by the Countess as if he were her own son, and no filial privilege was denied him. After having completed his musical studies, he married an Hungarian lady, and the union, proved a most happy one. She reveres to this day the memory of her beloved and talented husband, and sympathizes heartily with every effort made to do it honor.
Balfe came to London in 1835, and produced a most successful opera, “The Siege of Rochelle,” which was played for three months in succession. “ Vive le Roi,” one of the airs composing this piece, was adopted as the hymn of Henry IV. In 1836, the “ Maid of Artois,” written for Malibran, was produced. It contained one of the most popular ballads ever written, “ The Light of other Days.”
The various productions of Balfe were everywhere well received. The reception given his works abroad was everything that could be desired, and he himself was known all over Europe as “M. Balfe de l’Air,” from an air of his popular in every court Europe.
In Paris, Balfe produced in 1839 “ Les Puits d’Amour,” to the great delight of the critical Parisians. After winning for himself fresh laurels in the French capital, he returned to London and produced “The Bohemian Girl,” which was first performed in 1843 with the most gratifying result. “The Bohemian Girl ” also became very popular in vz this country, and was translated into French, German and Italian, but there can be no question that it is inferior both to “ Les Puits ’’and “ Les Quatre Fils d’Aymon,” another opera from the pen of this great composer, and which attained marked success in Germany. There is, however, a certain charm about “ The Bohemian Girl,” which contains many fine soul-stirring melodies.
In London he composed many other operas and was eminently successful in the management of Her Majesty’s Opera and the National Concerts. But not the least remarkable work of Balfe’s life was the music composed
20
.THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
by him for six of Longfellow’s songs, which has been pronounced, by those competent to judge, as simply beautiful.
Balfe seldom visited Dublin, the place of his birth, yet whenever he did go there he was well received. On one occasion he sought out an old woman to whom he was indebted for some lollipops, and gladdened her heart with a pound note. He was genial and unconceited in manner, and capable of adapting himself to any circumstance or station.	'
The closing years of our composer’s life were spent industriously. He worked till the-last, and -brought out in his declining years no-less a production than “ Il Talis-mano.”	-
Compulsory Education.
One of the threatening questions of the day is that of “ compulsory education." They say, that in such States as Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania, and the like, illiteracy is on the increase, notwithstanding the immense cost of their common school systems. They say that, with this illiteracy, there has been an increase of crime. They conclude, from these premises, that the States should force their educational system on the individual. Strange that the forcible conclusion has not forced itself into their slow minds, viz: This means does not accomplish the end for which we designed it; therefore, it is not adapted to that end; some defect must exist in the system itself. Strange, we say, that statesmen cannot be brought to appreciate that the ignorance is in themselves; that the illiteracy is in themselves. The man is a fool that concludes everybody is a fool; the man is drunk that thinks everybody is drunk; the man is illiterate that thinks everybody illiterate that is not educated as he is. Such ideas belong to the “ heathen Chinee,” not to free-born American citizens. Yet the American statesman concludes, when his system fails, all is failure. Verily, my friend, the world goes right on and up the way of progress, under the law of the “survival of the fittest” Of all the blind follies, that is the most silly that would attempt to burnish diamond as marble or clay or leather, and then conclude this matter is not diamond, because, forsooth, it refused to respond to his burnishment. We trust the day never will come in America when a majority of the States attempt compulsory education.—Kentucky Military Institute News.	'
Art, Music and Literature.
—Messrs. Gill & Son, of Dublin, will shortly publish a biography of the Founders of the Irish Sisters of Charity.
—His Holiness Leo XIII has felicitated the Abbe Moigno on his "■Splendours de la Foi,” a work in four volumes.
—Benziger Bros, have published “ General Confession Made Easy," by the Rev. A. Konings, C. SS. R. It will be found of great value to both priests and people.
—It is reported that the venerable Father Lemcke, having finished a history of Northern Cambria, Pa., and an autobiography, is engaged upon a new “ Life of Prince Gallitzin.”	-
—The merit of Gerster’s voice was first recognized by a Vienna musical director, who heard her sing at the head of a Catholic procession in a Hungarian town, and who put her under suitable instruction.
—Flasks of arabesqued pottery, containing ambergris, Which the passion for Oriental notions has revived, are in
high favor. Others of glass, very fragile, too, are favorite mantel ornaments though they seem out of place there.
—Longfellow and Fields were making a short pedestrian tour a few years ago, when to their surprise an angry bull stood in the pathway, evidently intending to demolish both poet and publisher. “I think,” said Fields, “that it will be prudent to give this reviewer a wide margin.” “Yes,” replied the poet, “it appears to be a disputed passage.”
—News has been received from Dr. Kirk, of Zanzibar, of the death of the eminent geographer, Mr. Keith John ston. He died of dyssentery on his way to Nyassa. He was at the head of an expedition promoted by the Royal Geographical Society for the exploration of Central Africa. The expedition, it is stated, will still proceed, Mr. Thompson taking the lead.
—Father Cooke, O. M. I., of London, has completed his work, “Sketches of the Life of Mgr. de Mazenod, Bishop of Marseilles, and Founder of the Society of the Oblates of Mary Immaculate,” which will soon be issued in two volumes. This work will give interesting particulars of the missionary labors of the Oblates, and its profits will be applied to the poor schools in Great Prescott Street, Tower Hill, London.
—Dr. O’Callaghan, the historian, has made an interesting discovery in the course of his researches in Spanish literature. In a book entitled “ Collection de los Viages y des Culrimientos, Madrid, in la imprenta Real quo de 1825," in volume ii, page 19, he found a list of the crew of the “ Pinta,” one of the vessels that accompanied the “ Santa Maria,” the vessel in which Columbus sailed in the voyage in which he discovered America, Among the names appears Guillermo Ires, natural de Galway de Irlanda (William Eyre, native of Galway, Ireland.)
—In the library of Georgetown University may be seen a copy of a very remarkable engraving. It refers to the institution of the Eucharist. In it Jesus Christ is seen distributing the Holy Sacrament to the Apostles, and by His lips are uttered these words: “ This is My Body.” On the right, Luther offers the Holy Communion, and says: “ In this is contained my body.” At the left, Calvin does the same, and declares •. “ This is the figure of my body.” At the bottom of the picture the artist has written in prominent letters: “ Whom shall we believe ? ’’
—The Lake-Shore Visitor calls attention to Johnson’s Cyclopaedia as a wretched anti-Catholic production. Catholic exchanges generally should notice this fact. The surest way to put down bigoted authors who appeal to the general public for support, is to inform that part of the public which is Catholic, of the malign tendencies of such publications. Then we hit these unworthy authors and publishing houses in their only vulnerable part—their pockets. To be sure the more ignorant and lying their works, the more they injure their cause; but that is not the point. Let our readers refuse all canvassers who approach them with Johnson’s Cyclopaedia.—Catholic Universe.
—The talented young actress, Miss Anna Boyle, who has been pronounced by the critics of the Washington and New York press, the ideal Juliet, has offered to give a dramatic reading in connection with the Bazaar of the Ladies’ Aid Society, Cincinnati, Ohio, which will be opened the last week of this month. Miss Edmonia Lewis, the colored sculptress, desires to put her latest and best work, “ Spring,” on exhibition at the Bazaar, with the understanding that this work has not yet been shown in Cincinnati, and will be then seen for the first time. The Ladies’ Aid Society is composed of the most prominent ladies in the various parishes of the city and vicinity, who have volunteered their services to aid their aged and beloved Archbishop out of his pecuniary difficulties.
—The Ladies’ Aid Society, of Cincinnati, Ohio, open a grand Bazaar in that city the last week of this month, and appeal to all' the ladies of the United States to contribute whatever works of art, decorative or otherwise, painting, on porcelain or china, wood-carvings, embroidery, plain needlework—anything, in short, which skill or ingenuity may devise or charity collect to aid them in their praiseworthy enterprise. They have lately given a concert to satisfy the wants of the most pressing of the Archbishop’s

TELE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC?
21
creditors and met with signal success. The corresponding committee are: Mrs. J. F. Meline, Mrs. J. B. Mannix, Miss Lincoln, Miss L. O’Shaughnessy, and Miss Rossiter. Communications may be addressed to either of the above, care of Jno. B. Mannix, Esq., N. E. Corner Fifth and Maine Sts., but all contributions of goods or work should be sent, carefully marked, to the President of the Society, Mrs. T. D. Lincoln, 296 West Seventh Street, Cincinnati, Ohio.
—It has been determined to open the Bazaar in aid of the venerable Archbishop in the last week of September. It will be open for two weeks. During that time twelve numbers of the daily paper, of which we have already spoken, will be published. This enterprise is in the hands of a committee of ladies of literary experience, who have the assurance of original contributions from some of the best living writers of the English language. The ladies who have it in charge request us to appeal to our exchanges to announce that the whole twelve numbers of the paper will be forwarded to any address in the United States or Canada, postage paid, for one dollar. A limited space will be reserved tor first-class advertisements. Subscriptions to the paper may be sent to any of the following ladies, in care ot the editor of the Catholic Telegraph, viz.: Mrs. J. B. Mannix, Mrs. M. O’Connell, Miss Lincoln, or Miss Lucy B. O’Shaughnessy.—Catholic Telegraph.
—Elihu Burritt, “ the learned blacksmith,” who died on the 7th of last March, at New Britain, Conn., was born at New Britain, December 8, 1810, and was the youngest boy of rive in a family of ten children. His parents were of Scottish stock, and his father and grandfather Revolutionary soldiers. Soon after his father’s death, in 1828, young Elihu apprenticed himself to a blacksmith. While at work at the bellows he indulged his fine natural talents as a mathematician. Every moment that he could snatch from the toil of the forge was given to his book. In half a dozen years he learned more French, Latin and Greek than most graduates take away with them from the college. Later he attacked other languages, including Hebrew and Icelandic, with the same indomitable resolution that had carried him through the Iliad at 22, without any other help than a Greek-Latin dictionary. His memory has a claim on our people from the fact that he was one of the first to translate and publish the Scandinavian “ Sagas,” which have since been enlarged on and which show that the Irish were the first discoverers of America.—Irish American.
—It is said that the late G. W. M. Reynolds had made more money by his sixty or seventy cheaply sensational novels than many of the most distinguished authors in Great Britain. His earnings from his stories have been estimated as high as £60,000, which may be an exaggeration, although that would not be much more than £4,000 a novel, and some of his novels are reported to have brought him in §8,000, §9,000, §10,000 and even §12,000 apiece. Tyndall, Darwin, Huxley or Carpenter has, we venture to assert, never made one-third as much by his life-long devotion to science. Matthew Arnold, considered one of the most cultured and intellectual authors in Great Britain, could not count, it is said, £10,000 as the direct product of his pen. Carlyle, has alter a career of continual activity and the publication of forty or fifty volumes, acquired, in his 84th year, an income of little more than £1,000. Robert Browning, held by a number of critics to be the first of living poets, would not have been able to support himself had ne not had a private fortune.
—A. L. S.—Before another year shall have glided into the buried past, the three initials at the beginning of this paragraph shall be mentioned in almost every household throughout the country in connection with the most popular, interesting and highly moral tales of the literature of the present day. Very few of the numerous readers of “Barbara Leigh” and “Gretchen’s Gift” are acquainted with the name of their gifted authoress, as hidden under the above initials. Visitors to the commencement exercises of Mount St. Vincent’s Academy, on the Hudson, in June, 1874, will remember the bright features of Miss Agnes L. Sadher as she stepped forward to receive the Highest honors of her class, the reward of a year’s hard intellectual labor. Unlike the majority of academy ladies, Miss Sadlier did not consider that her literary pursuits terminated instantaneously with the reception of her graduating
medal, but vigorously pursued her studies, the results of which may be seen in the two charming tales mentioned, above. A. L. 8. has also enriched our novellette literature by an admirably executed translation of Paul Feval’s great work on “The Jesuits.” The works of A. L. S. are published by D. & J. Sadlier & Co., 31 Barclay Street, New York.—Hew York Tablet.
—The fates of the English poets are rather peculiar. Shakspeare and Milton each died without a son, but both left daughters, and both names are now extinct. Shakspeare was soon so. Addison had an only child, a daughter, a girl of some five or six years at his death. She died unmarried, at the age of eighty or more. Farquhar left two girls dependent on the friendship of his friend Wilkes, the actor, wno stood nobly by them while he lived. They had a small pension from the Government, and had long outlived their father and seen his reputation unalterably established. Both died unmarried. The son and daughter of Coleridge both died childless. The two sons of Sir Walter Scott died without children—one of two daughters died unmarried, and the Scotts of Abbotsford and Waverly are now represented by the children of a daughter. How little could Scott foresee the sudden failure of male issue ? The poet of the “Fairie Queene ” lost a child when very young by fire when the rebels burned his house in Ireland. Some of the poets had sons and no daughters. Thus we read of Chaucer’s son, of Dryden’s sons, of the sons of Burns, of Allen Ramsey’s son, of Dr. Young’s son. Ben Johnson survived ail his children. Some, and those among the greatest, died unmarried—Butler, Cowley, Otway, Prior, Pope, Gray, Thomson, Akenside, Shenstone, Collins Goldsmith and Bogers.—Boston Courier.
—T. W. Higginson writes of Howells in the Literary World: It has perhaps been a misfortune to Mr. Howells that in his position ot editor of the Atlantic Monthly he has been practically shielded from much of that healthful criticism which is usually needed for the making of a good author. . . . Compare the position, in this respect, of Mx. Howells and Mr. Henry James, Jr. Their writings are equally conspicuous before the public; their merits are equally marked, and so also are their demerits, real or fancied; yet what a difference in the amount of criticism awarded to each! Each new book by Mr. Howells is received with an almost monotonous praise, as if it had no individuality, no salient points; while each story by Mr. James is debated through and through the newspapers and in the “ Contributors’ Club ” itself as if it were a fresh Waverly novel. I see no reason for this difference, except that Mr. Howells edits the Atlantic Monthly, and that all other American writers are, as it were, sitting at his table, or wishing themselves there. The greatest step he [Howells] has ever taken, both in popularity and in artistic success, has been won by trusting himself to a generous impulse, and painting in “The Lady of the Aroostock” a character worth the pains of describing. The book is not, to my thinking, free from faults; the hero poses and proses, and the drunken man is so realistic as to be out of place and overdone, but the character of the heroine seems to me the high-water-mark of Mr. Howells.
—Brother Azarias, Professor of English Literature in Rock Hill College, Maryland, has made a volume on “The Old English Period.” His intention is, if precarious health will permit, to follow it by two others in which the subject will be brought down to the present day. This volume is clearly written. The plan of it is good. “The author has laid every available source of information under contribution. Dry land-grants, antiquated law-codes, the decrees of councils, the lives of saints, legend and history, the researches of scholar and critic and antiquarian have all of them directly or indirectly been brought to bear upon the subject, and have been made use of to throw light upon the purely literary documents.” Chap. I treats of “The Continental Homestead,” with special reference to the origin of English customs and habits of speech; Chap. H of “Celtic Influence”; Chap. HI of the Conversion to Christianity ; Chap. IV of Whitby, St. Hilda and Cedmon; Chap. V of Canterbury, Theodore, and Aldheim; Chap. VI of Jarrow and York; Chap. VII of Winchester, Alfred the Great, and the Spirit of Laws; Chap. VIII of Abingdon, the Two Alfrics, and Tenth Century Poetry. The author is a fervent Roman Catholic, but his religious bias is
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
not objectionable in this period of English history. When it becomes his duty to write of Wickliffe and Chaucer, there may be some difference of opinion as to the wisdom of his conclusions. (“The Development of English Literature; The Old English Period. By Brother Azarias. 12mo. Cloth. New York: D. Appleton & Co. $1.25.)—Chicago Dotty Tribune.
Scientific Notes.
—Lesseps, the great civil engineer, has planned to visit America next winter.
—Dr. George B. Johnson of Richmond, Va., has been elected Professor of Anatomy in Atlanta, Georgia.
—M. Kayser, of Nuremberg, reports that in a mixture of sand and sulphur he placed fifteen per cent, of peroxide manganese and obtained a deep black glass, showing, when broken, sombre shades of violet, and exactly imitating the Vanetian black glass.
—An Austrian resident at the court of Siam reports that in that country the monkey is trained to fish for crabs with his tail. Occasionally the animal gets a “ bite ” from a monster crab that he is totally unable to land, and falls a victim to the superior weight of his cancer ferox, which drags him into the water, drowns, and finally devours him.
—The telescope was invented by Jacob Metins, a wealthy Hollander, who found great pleasure in making burningglasses and mirrors. One day while looking over a lot of glasses he happened to look at the same time through two glasses, one of which was a little thicker in the middle than on the edge, and the other thinner in the middle. He afterward fixed them in a tube, and in that way originated a telescope which has formed the basis of the construction of all since that time. '	•
—A lady inquires of the Practical Farmer for a remedy for the whooping cough, and gets the following answer: “ Dr. Warren says that muriatic acid diluted to the strength of lemonade, with water and kept for a drink, using nothing else, will cure the disease in three weeks’ time. We have tried it with four or five children, and find it to be good. To relieve the paroxysm sprinkle sulphuric ether on the hand and hold to the nose.” When a regular physician cannot be had, of course.
—According to the official report of a telegraph company in Sumatra, it is no easy matter to keep the wires in operation in that tropical country. Their most redoubtable enemies are the wild elephants. In May of last year these animals completely destroyed a line eighteen miles long. Where the wires lead through jungles the workmen engaged in putting them up and keeping them in repair are frequently interrupted by attacks from buffaloes, tigers and bears. More troublesome still are the monkeys, who use the poles and wires for gymnastic exercises, and take a peculiar pleasure in stealing the glass insulators.
—Galileo’s Apocryphal “ E pur si muove!” according to the researches of the late Prof. Heis (cads his “ Wochen-schrift fur Astronomic,” etc., 1868, No. 36), is to be found for the first time inVol. IVof the “Dictionnaire Historique,” published in 1789 at Caen, in these words: “ Au moment qu’il se releva, agit^ par le remords d’avoir fait un faux ser-ment, les yeux baisses vers la terre, on pretend qu’il dit, frap-pantdupied: E pur si muove!”—“When he rose, agitated by the remorse of having taken a false oath, his eyes bent to the ground, they pretend that he said, stamping his foot: E pur si muove,’—‘ And still it moves.’ ” Afterwards this statement has been reprinted many times, but without the “ on pretend.” We challenge anyone to adduce an earlier printed record of these purely supposititious words of Galileo Galilei.
—A Mexican Barometer.—On board the Mexican steamer is a barometer of the most simple construction, but the greatest accuracy. It consists only of a long strip of cedar, very thin, about two and a half feet in length, about an inch wide, cut with the grain, and set in a block, or foot. This cedar strip is backed, or lined, with one of white pine, cut across the grain, and the two are tightly glued together. To bend these when dry is to snap them, but on the approach of bad weather the cedar curls over until the
top at times touches the ground. This simple instrument is the invention of a Mexican guitar maker, and such is its accuracy that it will indicate the coming on of a “norther” lull twenty-four hours before any other kind of barometer known on the coast. Had this been the production of Yankee ingenuity it had been patented long ago, and a fortune made by its inventor.—Mobile Register, March 1.
—Dr. Brunton, in the Contemporary Review, remarks that there are two nerves, known as the “ fifth pair,” which are distributed to the skin of the head and to the mucous membrane of the eyes, nose and mouth. These nerves are closely connected with the heart and vessels, and by stimulating their branches the circulation may be greatly influenced, as in the case of fainting. It is a curious fact that people of all nations are accustomed, when in any difficulty, to stimulate one or another branch of the fifth nerve, and quicken their mental process. Thus, some persons when puzzled, scratch their heads; others rub their foreheads; and others stroke or pull their beards, thus stimulating the occipital, frontal, or mental branches of the nerves. Many Germans when thinking have a habit of striking their fingers against their noses, and thus stimulating the nasal cutaneous branches, while in other countries some people stimulate the branches distributed to the mucous membrane of the nose by taking snuff.
—The bill of a mosquito is a complete institution. It is admirably calculated to torment. The bill has a blunt fork at the end, and is apparently grooved. Working through the groove, and projecting from the centre of the fork, is a lance of perfect form, sharpened with a bevel. Beside it the most perfect lance looks like a handsaw. On either side of this lance two saws are arranged, with the points fine and sharp and the teeth well defined and keen. The backs of these saws play against the lance. When the mosquito alights with its peculiar hum, it thrusts in its keen lance, and then enlarges the aperture with the two saws, which play beside the lance until the forked bill with its capillary arrangement for pumping blood can be inserted. The sawing process is what grates upon the nerves of the victim, and causes him to strike wildly at the sawer. The irritation of a mosquito bite is undoubtedly owing to those saws. It is to be hoped that the mosquito keeps his surgical instruments clean, otherwise it might be a means of propagating blood diseases.
About sixty eruptions of Etna are recorded, the most notable within the last 125 years being those of 1792,1811, 1819,1832. The first of them continued an entire year, the streams of lava then being thirty feet deep. During the last one mentioned there opened on the sides of the mountain many flaming mouths, in the midst of tremendous explosions and convulsions emitting prodigious discharges of ashes, cinders, and lava, which overran miles of cultivated fields and threatened the town of Bronte with ruin. The river of lava was then twenty miles long, over a mile wide, and forty feet deep. The lava which in 1669 overtopped the walls of Catania may still be seen coiling over their summit like a frozen torrent. On that occasion much of the city and fifteen thousand of its inhabitants were destroyed. The earliest eruption mentioned in history was four hundred and seventy-six years before the Christian era. Four years later a vast volume of salt water is reported to have rushed down the mountain side. It was supposed to have come from the crater, showing, apparently, the connection between the volcano and the sea. A great eruption occurred in 1852, when mighty clouds of ash-gray dust were expelled, covering the whole surrounding country.
—Death of an Eminent Catholic Astronomer.—At 4 p. m., on August 8, at Bagenhausen, a little parish cem-etry near the “English Garden” at Munich, the mortal remains of Dr. John von Lamont, the Director of the Observatory erected there, were deposited in their last resting place. He was born at Braemar, in Scotland, and as a boy full of ambitious hopes, came to Germany to be educated at the Scottish Benedictine Monastery of Ratisbon. In those early days he was supposed to have an inclination towards the clerical state; but the star-world exercised an overwhelming attraction for him, and he finally devoted himself altogether to astronomy. After working for some years at the Royal Observatory in Munich he was appointed director of that establishment, in which capacity he
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	23
achieved a very considerable reputation, becoming an honorary member of most of the scientific societies ot Europe. In 1852 he was appointed ordinary Professor of Astronomy in the University of Munich. During his lifetime he established two exhibitions in the University for mathematical students, and he was also most benevolent towards the poor. He died in the 74th year of his age, fortified by the Sacraments of the Church, and quite resigned to the will of God. Requiescat in pace.—Cleveland Catholic Universe.
—The following letter was published in a recent number of the London Tablet:
Sib :—Having been for some time looking in our English journals for some detailed notice of the great work accomplished by the late Father Secchi, my attention has been directed to an admirable little sketch of one branch of his labors in the Catholic Progress of this month, evidently written by the contributor of the Geological Sketches which appeared last year in the same periodical. The degree in which the modern sciences of physical astronomy and meteorology have been indebted to the persistent labors of Father Secchi is little known even among educated Catholics, and still less to the general public, though fully acknowledged by the most eminent living astronomers. Neither his grea t work on “The Sun” (though translated into every other European language), nor his last on “ The Stars,” has yet been rendered into English. Also his patient daily record of meteorological observations, extending without intermission over a period of twenty years, and his minute daily records of the sun’s variations during ten years, have not received anything like an adequate recognition, though we are reaping the fruit of his unwearied toil; he having thereby laid the necessary and sure foundation for further discovery, and for the advance of a science which promises to be of the utmost advantage to mankind. It is strange considering how inadequate have been the notices of Father Secchi’s contributions to the greatest of modern discoveries in our English scientific periodicals, that more effort has not been made in our Catholic journals to call attention to the writings and labors of an astronomer of whom we may be so justly proud.—I am, yours, etc.,
A Catholic Lover of Science.
August 5th, 1879.
Books and. Periodicals.
—Me Gee's Illustrated Weekly and the American Art Journal have been welcome visitors to our sanctum during vacation.
—The Cacilia, full of interesting and instructive matter in regard to liturgical church music, is a most welcome exchange. It advocates a good cause, and we wish it continued success in its praiseworthy efforts. Prof. John Sing-enberger, the President of the American St. Cecilia Society, is still the editor; Pustet is the publisher.
—The Printers' Circular for August is to hand with a choice variety of matter pertaining to journalism and bibliology. A well-written and interesting letter from Paris is a new feature in the Circular. The Circular is an excellent specimen of typographical neatness. It is published by R. S. Menamin, Philadelphia.
—Messrs. Murphy & Co., the enterprising publishers of Baltimore, have recently issued in one volume the Kyriale, containing a choice selection of Masses in Gregorian Chant, and the Vesperdie, containing Vespers, Hymns and Antiphons for all the Sundays and principal feasts of the year, forming a handsome and portable volume. The notation is given in either round or square notes, as purchasers may desire. This is, we think, the finest and most practical book of the kind ever issued from the press, and Messrs. Murphy & Co. deserve great praise for the handsome manner in which it is gotten up. We should have said that the Masses for the Dead and Complin service are also included in this beautiful volume.
—The Ohio Waisenfreund, a German Catholic paper, published in the interest of the orphans by Rev. Father Jessing, Columbus, Ohio, is one of our most welcome visitors. It contains so many excellent features that space prevents
our enumerating them. We merely mention the fact that its department of information in answer to correspondents, sound moral stories, news, etc., make up. a good, solid family paper in the true sense of the word. We are glad to learn from another German periodical that the Waisen-freund has a circulation of about 20,000. May its sphere of usefulness never grow less!
—The La Salle Advance and Calvert's Magazine have united their forces, and now appear under the title of The Catholic Advance. Surely, if the old publications did so well individually, the truth of the motto “ In union there is.strength ” cannot fail to make them not only better but more prosperous. The Advance is a 16-page 3-column quarto, is neatly printed on super-sized and calendered paper, with a fawn-colored cover, and altogether makes a handsome appearance. Published from the Catholic Advance Printing House, 1308 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pa., at §2 a year. Harry J. Calvert, publisher: Stephen J. Burke, editor.	’
—There are light, quick, surface voices that involuntarily seem to utter the saying, “I won’t do to tie to.” The man’s words may assure you of his strength of purpose and reliability, yet his tongue contradicts his speech. Then there are low, deep, strong voices, where the words seem ground out as if the man owed humanity a grudge, and meant to pay it some day. That man’s opponent may tremble, and his friends may trust his strength of purpose and ability to act. There is the coarse, boisterous, dictatorial tone, invariably adopted by vulgar persons who have not sufficient cultivation to understand their own insignificance. There is the incredulous tone that is full of a covert sneer, or secret “ you can’t fool me, sir,” intonation. There is a whining, beseeching voice that says “sycophant ” as plainly as if it uttered the word. It cajoles and flatters; its words say, “I love you; I admire you; you are everything that you should be.” Then there is the tender, musical, compassionate voice, which occasionally goes with sharp features but always with genuine benevolence. If you are full of affectation and pretense, your voice tells it. If you are cold and calm, and firm, and persistent, or fickle, and foolish, and deceptive, your voice will be equally truth-telling. You cannot change your voice from a natural to an unnatural tone without its being known that you are so doing.	‘
—The Catholic Times speaking of the resolution of the French Rabbis, adopted on the 5th of February, 1870, thanking the Supreme Pontiffs for their constant protection of the Jews, recount these services as follows: “It is in consequence of the sacred principles of morals, that in different times the Roman Pontifis have protected and invited to their States the Jews, persecuted and expatriated from the different parts of Europe. About the middle of the seventh century, St. Gregory defended the Jews and protected them in the whole Christian world. In the tenth ;century, the Bishops of Spain opposed with great energy the people who wished to massacre them. The Pontiff Alexander H wrote to those Bishops a letter full of congratulations for their conduct in this matter. St. Bernard defended them in the twelfth century from the fury of the Crusaders; Innocent II and Alexander IH equally protected them. In the thirteenth century Gregory IX preserved them, as well in England as in France and Spain, from the great misfortune with which they were threatened; he defended them under pain of excommunication. Clement V did more than protect them; he gave them the means of education. Clement VI gave them an asylum at Avignon, when they were persecuted by all the rest of Europe. In the following century Pope Nicholas wrote to the Inquisition to forbid compelling the Jews to embrace Christianity. Clement XHI calmed the fear of parents alarmed lest their children might be taken from them, as frequently happened. It is easy to cite an infinity of the charitable actions of which the Israelites were at different times the object on the part of ecclesiastics instructed in the duties of men and those of their religion.”
24
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
I antt
Notre Dame, September 13, 1879.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thirteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.5O Per Annmn., Postpaid,
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Honors for ’79-’8O.
Quite an important decision has lately been arrived at by the Faculty in regard to honors. The rule almost invariably followed heretofore has been that the recipient of a first honor should have previously obtained a second honor. It has, however, been decided that all the students of ’78-’79, in consideration of their noble work on the day of the fire, may, if their deportment be entirely satisfactory during the present scholastic year, receive first honors at the next Annual Commencement. This will, we trust, have the good effect which it was intended to secure. Those who would have received second honors last year, had the fire not occurred, will, we hope, not discontinue their efforts, and those whose names did not invariably appear on the weekly roll of honor ought to feel encouraged to make greater efforts in the future.	.
A Word about the University.
The University of Notre Dame is arisen from her ashes more beautiful, more majestic than before. Her halls are already filled with students from all parts of the United States and Canada. The prospects of the scholastic year 1879-80 are therefore good—very good,—and we tbink the authorities here have every reason to feel satisfied for the manner in which the College is patronized and assisted by the generous American people. Notre Dame does not forget a good turn, but in regard to this we have little to say and will leave that same little to be said by others—by those who know the institution in this respect.
The College-is at present in perfect running order; classes are taught with extreme regularity, and we have no hesitation in saying that every one augurs cheerfully for the
future. The discpline of the institution is in the hands of the Rev. P. W. Condon, C. S. C., who has been for some years past President of the College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, Watertown, Wis., and he is assisted by an experienced and able corps of prefects. Father Condon has filled the office of disciplinarian at Notre Dame before, and is well and favorably known to the students and patrons of ’72-’3. The Vice-Presidency and Direction of Studies is intrusted to the Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., whose ability for the faithful fulfilment of this important office needs no comment. Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., is again President of the University. He is too well known to need an introduction from us.
Notre Dame, resuscitated, now enters upon a new career, and she sets out fully determined to do what good lies in her power to do—to lend her aid to the all-important cause of education at a time when true education is much needed.
The New Year.
When the crescent form of the new moon shall appear in the western sky, as it will do on the 18th or 19th of this month, the Jewish festival “ Tishree Rash Haslianah ” will inaugurate the hieratic year of that venerable form of worship. Our scholastic year is somewhat earlier in its starting point than the hieratic year of the Jews. It has already commenced. Ere the full moon of August showed perceptible diminution on its western limb, students had already commenced their year of mental toil—toil that brings with it its own reward.
Arriving at the new College we find ourselves at once in an atmosphere, as it were, of unlimited possibilities. The new building itself opens out possibilities to the view oP even the unimaginative. Possibilities for the fresco painter, in the vast areas of ceiling and wall spreading themselves for decoration. Possibilities for the sculptor in the niches that stand vacant around the rotunda. Possibilities for the poet in the majestic proportions of the rotunda itself—the picturesque character of the new edifice and its surroundings, breathing, as it seems to do, the spirit of antiquity even in its very novelty, with the haunting phantoms of the past looming up through oubliettes and darting out upon one at unexpected turns and emergencies. Possibilities for the philosopher—the metaphysician—the theologian— but above all, possibilities for the young and earnest student.
Yes! the splendors and proportions of the material structure are but dim shadows and types of those more glorious beauties of the intellectual edifice designed, planned and staked out, so to speak, in the brain and heart of every one that is drawn to these classic halls by the true love of ' learning. To build this structure is the aim of each, and in his teachers he will find cheerful and hearty cooperators. They will furnish the material: the ashlar of literature— the rubble of natural science—the brick of mathematics— the lumber of philosophy—the'galvanized iron of the fine arts—the sand of routine—the lime of discipline, and the bolts and bars of seclusion and strict attention. But he himself must be the mason—the carpenter—the bricklayer. His teachers can only supply the means and smooth the way. The student must do the solid work himself. Remember this, boys! and let the beginning of this new year find you with hearts prepared and good resolutions to make the best use of the opportunities afforded you here,


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.?	25
h
so that each month, as it passes, may find us wiser than the month previous.
Physical growth is a beautiful spectacle. Whether in vegetables or animals, a visible increase, day by day, or even month by month, excites sentiments of delight and interest of a higher order than any other material phenomenon can call into life. The child plants a lily bulb in the spring, and with what joy does he behold the first green sprout appearing above the moist earth, rising higher day by day and expanding into a leafy cluster, from the midst of which is gradually developed the elegant stem. And as the stem grows higher, how delighted he is to see the coronal of buds appear at the top, and finally the buds themselves bursting open into beautiful, white and fragrant bloom. What the lily is to the child, the child himself is in a far higher degree to his fond parents. They watch with loving gaze his increasing stature and strength—his aptitude and dexterity—his gaiety and grace. But sometimes a sharp pain paralyses the young limbs for a moment. “Never mind, my son,” says the parent, “these are but ‘growing pains.’ They are a good sign. Grown people never have them. They come without warning—inflict no serious injury,—and pass away as quickly as they came.”
But if physical growth is beautiful, what must we say of mental growth, of which it is but the image ? Truly it is a joy unspeakable, both to him who’grows and to them that witness his growth, but it has its “growing pains” also, and remember that to have them is a good sign. Be not discouraged if the path to learning is not a royal road —if its hills are not all laid low and its valleys all filled up. The levelling of the hills and valleys is part of the work to be done as you proceed; and when you turn to look back over the extended vista of past triumphs, how delightful will be the vision—how stimulating to new exertions I
Begin then manfully—earnestly—cheerfully. And if sometimes your strength seems unequal to the sacrifices which the serious pursuit of learning demands, remember that Divine Providence, which has placed these opportunities within your reach, will also grant you the strength to lay hold of them. Seek, therefore, that strength at its fountain-head. Seclusion is a trial to those unaccustomed to any form of restraint. Routine is monotonous, and discipline irksome. But to a willing heart these necessary pains appear trifling in comparison with the true pleasures which accompany growth in wisdom and virtue. Moreover, custom soon makes them easy, and at length delightful, so that what at first seemed painful, because of its contrast with previous habits of life, finally appears pleasant’, because of the concomitant happiness with which it is ' associated.
Under these conditions, therefore, we feel justified in wishing you a Happy New Year. The time looking forward to next June seems long; but when June arrives, looking backward the same period will appear very short, and even the best students will regret haviiig failed to improve it as well as they might have done. Remember, again, that with yourselves rests the realization of the heartfelt wish which we reiterate—a Happy New Year to AB.
—A falsehood has no legs, and cannot stand; but it has wings, and can fly far and wide.
The Feast of the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin.
By an oversight on the part of our advertiser it was announced in some of the newspapers that the dedication of the New Notre Dame would take place on the beautiful festival of the Nativity. As Notre Dame has always been placed under the special protection of the Blessed Virgin we did hope and wish to be able to re-dedicate to her on that day our beautiful and commodious buildings, just erected, but, as often happens, our fond expectations could not be fulfilled. The amount of work to be done was simply immense, and as so many parties in different sections of the country had to be depended on, it was found an utter impossibility to place the front extension in proper condition for such a grand and solemn occasion as it is intended to make the dedication. Our principal energies were therefore directed towards the completion of the main building, so that our students would find, on their return, ample accommodations and necessary convenience. In that point, thanks to kind friends everywhere, to hard work on the part of those engaged, and to the blessings of Providence, we succeeded. Although the dedication had necessarily to be postponed, it was resolved by the Faculty that the Mass celebrated at the beginning of the session for the success of school and scholars, and to call down the blessings of God on both, should this year be celebrated on the 8th instead of the 2d. Consequently solemn High Mass, with Rev. W. Corby, President of the University, as Celebrant, Rev. T. E. Walsh, Director of Studies, as Deacon, and Rev. T. Collins, as Subdeacon, was sung on the above day. After the singing of the Gospel the Rev. President addressed some eloquent words of instruction and wisdom to the students. If the young men will only follow the advice given on that occasion, not only will their work of the year be blessed and they be successful, but they will become an honor to their families and model citizens of this great Republic. Some of the Rev. Father’s words were of so much importance that we wish they could be placed before every teacher in the land. “ Education without religion or moral training,” he said, “ is a very dangerous thing. It is like sharp tools in the hands of an infant The tools in themselves are good, fit for use by those who know how to handle them, but destructive to those who know not how to use them—even death-dealing, at times, to the infant. So education without moral training is one of the most dangerous instruments used by the enemy of man’s salvation for a greater destruction—death to the souls of men.” These words are borne out by sad experience in our own fair land. Every day we read of embezzlements, forgeries, crimes unfit to be named by any Christian; these, and murders and suicides, are not committed by the uneducated only; no, but in most cases by those who had received an education above the common, but devoid of moral training. Graduates of High Schools and Colleges figure entirely too prominent among the perpetrators of such deeds. The reason is evident. While these men’s intellects were well trained, the heart and the morals were neglected.
Godless education leads to anarchy, and unless the tide be stemmed there is danger that it will eventually lead to the corruption of society and the disruption of this the grandest republic ever known. It is time for the educators of the country to take this matter into consideration. The sooner they do so, the sooner we may look for a nation of citizens whose lives will be an example of truth, honor,
26	THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC
justice, and all that makes men noble, to every other nation on the globe. The American people possess more than an average share of intellect, but—it must be said with regret —moral principle'is frequently wanting in that strength and purity which ennobles man; it must therefore be the aim of all true educators to develop the moral as well as the mental faculties in those committed to their charge.
Study at Notre Dame.
The work of the present scholastic year is now fully commenced at Notre Dame. Study is the chief thing in view. All the students have entered on this arduous duty with no little amount of courage and perseverance—something which is of primary importance to them from the moment they enter the college to the time in wrick they go forth from the serene and quiet home of their Alma ifat&r,—in order to be enabled to overcome every obstacle that may present itself before them.
The students that are at present within our walls seem one and all to acquire without much delay a special apti. tude for the observance of the college rules and regulations; and also to understand what they must do if they wish to earn for themselves the confidence and respect of their teachers and fellow-students, if they wish to carry off academic honors or distinctions on next Commencement day, ifthey wish, in a word, to fit themselves for the faithful discharge of those duties incidental to the position which they may hereafter hold in society. But students must not forget that what is well commenced is already half finished, and hence it is their duty now not to relax in energy, in industry, but quietly and perseveringly to keep on the right path, on which they have started out, without diverging to one side or the other.
Knowledge can only be obtained by patient toil and industrious labor. Our natural knowledge is very limited; indeed it is a question how much we would know were we left to ourselves to develop the faculties of the mind. We depend on others in a certain sense for whatever we may acquire in the wide domain of knowledge, which seems to be continually enlarging. It necessarily follows, then that all who wish to employ their time well must be attentive to what is told them in class, listen with all due attention to the explanations given by their professors, and follow out their directions in every detail. There is no more appreciative feature, in fact, in a young man than to be attentive, industrious, and courageous, from which qualities arise the formation of a noble character, of a disciplined heart and mind.
The life of a student is for the most part very trying; many obstacles will from time to time present themselves before him; he will be puzzled, he will be perplexed; and perhaps it is when he is on the very point of surmounting these difficulties that he becomes discouraged and gives . up the task as useless. This may be especially the case in the commencement of the study of languages by the young, who are apt to be too impatient in the beginning, and in place of following the rules given them by their instructors, follow their own notions, which for the most part a bad effect.
We should first be guided, if we wish to guide; we must be willing to be led, if we wish ever to be able to lead others. Industry and order should be the two main char
acteristics in a student, and constitute the fountain from which success is sure to flow.
Without order, no matter how industrious a student may be he can never accomplish much. There is a time for everything, and everything should have its proper time. In all institutions of learning there is a time marked out for study and another for play. One cannot interfere with the other without danger. Two things cannot be very well done at the same time; one or the other must necessarily suffer. It is but right and conformable to reason that students should be serious both in the class-room and study-hall. No one ever received his learning without working for it; in fact, as Euclid says, there is no royal road to knowledge. No student can enjoy an hour of recreation so well as he who spent the previous hour, or part of the day, in serious study.
Youth is the spring-time of life, in which should be sown the seeds of a good and virtuous life—a life befitting man, and conformable to his nature and to the many gifts and graces bestowed upon him by the hand of his Creator. What God wills us to do is the best, and it is worse than useless to strive to follow a contrary road to that marked out for us by a kind and munificent Providence. If God has been good enough to give us a free will, and thus permits us to do what is wrong, it should not follow as a consequence that we should do the wrong; we should rather strive the more to please God for the liberty He has given us, for the freedom with which He has constituted our nature, and leaving us at liberty to follow out the dictates of reason, the rules of law and order, and whatever is conducive to our own welfare, both temporally and eternally, gaining merit or demerit as we fulfil or oppose God’s holy designs in our regard. If God gives us time and means for the doing of anything it is but right that we should do it; and youth is the time given us for the acquiring what is good* or woful for the remainder of our lives,—for storing our minds with the knowledge that at once pertains to God as our Creator and Redeemer, and to ourselves as men living in society and forming a part of a most stupendous work—_ God’s Creation; so that by knowing what we are we may the better be able to live in conformity to our very nature and constitution, and to those laws God has been pleased to give us for our guidance, for our welfare in this life, and for enabling us to merit heaven in the next.
Local Items.
—Isn’t it grand!
—New arrivals daily.
—Have you entered ?
—“Well, I reckon I can.”
—Classes were called Tuesday.
—The Medics are hard at work.
—Guthrie is here, but where is Cannon?
—Example is a better teacher than words.
—Chicago leads in the number of students.
—What do you think of our Roll of honor ?
—All the classes are well attended this year.
—The prefects have retired from the “ stage.”
—The new home is more beautiful than the old.
—Kentucky is well represented. Thanks to Sam.
—Science without religion is superficial and vain.
—Class honors will not be published for a few weeks to come.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
27
—The old boys have not forgotten the Lemonnier Library. •
—The Columbian Literary Club will hold its first meeting this week.	-
—Wanted immediately a complete set of human bones. Apply to Dr. Neyron.
—The Seniors are indebted to Very Rev. Father Sorin for a valuable oil-painting.
—Round tables; marble basins, single desks. Who would not desire to be a student ?
—The Cecilians and Columbians are refitting their assembly-rooms in fine style.
—The Thespians will hold a meeting Saturday night for the purpose of reorganizing.
—The Preps are the boys who can enjoy a barrel of apples or a good square meal.
—The Juniors, accompanied by B. Laurence, took a walk out in the country last Sunday.
—A full report of the officers, etc., of the St. Cecilia Society will appear next week.
—The class-rooms look well with their new settees, beautiful pictures and large windows.
—Father Granger has given a beautiful medal to each of the Knights of the Blue Ribbon.
—A late arrival among the Minims weighs more than some of the professors. Jones is eclipsed.
—Brother Moses has a choice collection of plants and hanging baskets to beautify his lavatories.
—The President’s extension will be roofed next week, and ready for occupation about St. Edward’s day.
—Our friend John says that the best things and nicest in the College are the desks and marble wash-stands.
—The place formerly occupied by the students’ office is now a cosy drawing-room for the reception of visitors and patrons.
—Two commodious apartments in the main building have been reserved by President Corby for the use of the societies.
—The Kentucky Regulars, under the leadership of the gallant Colonel Sam Spalding, are a fine-looking set of young men.
—All the students are glad to find Father General so vigorous and youthful-looking after the trying events of the past season.	'
—The Juniors are again under obligations to Prof. Lyons—this time for a handsome present m the shape of a new patent French foot-ball.
—Artisans are constructing machinery for the generating of gas for the College buildings. They will finish their work during the coming week.
—Mr. Boyce, who has been engaged to erect the gasometer, thinks he can have it in working order and light up the College with gas this evening.
—“Pard, give me a cigarette,” alias “Snacks,” is studying law in the sunny South. Report says he is engaged. We wish him success and happiness.
—The Fat Men’s Club has been augmented numerically and in ponderosity by a Minim from St. Louis who will tip the scale against any member present.
—An antique oil-painting of the Crucifixion has been placed over the prefect’s desk in the Senior study-hall. Connoisseurs pronounce it a fine work of art.
—Who will send in the first essay for the Scholastic? Three accepted essays entitles to membership in the editorial club, the Academia, of which more anon.
L-4Prof. Edwards has received several donations of books from various parts of the country, and also from England and Canada. He expects a donation from Italy.
—The students’ office is conducted as usual on strictly business principles by the never to be equalled Father--- we are positively forbidden to mention his name.
—The Director of Studies is incessantly engaged examining the “ new-comers ” and placing them in the classes for which their abilities and acquirements have fitted them.
—We are glad to see a number of the graduates of last year back. They pursue a higher course of philosophy, and are engaged in the corps of tutors for the coming year.
—Anyone who sends us three new subscribers for the Scholastic will be entitled to a copy free for one year, sent to any address he may designate. Who comes first?
—Bro. Francis Joseph and his force, and Mr. Otis S. Howes and his corps of steam-fitters from Chicago, are working like bees to get the steam into the new buildings.
—The Psalmist says: Let the young and the old join in singing the praises of the Lord; therefore all should lend their voices to swell the tone of the grand old Gregorian Chant.
—Hereafter the High Mass for the students will be celebrated on Sundays and holydays at 8 a. m., thus allowing full use of the church for the congregation and visitors at a. m.
—The Juniors’ study-room is well supplied with paintings and engravings; these, with a beautiful statue of Our Lady of Lourdes, give the hall a cheerful and elegant appearance.
—The Senior and the Junior Campus are in splendid condition. The trees have been trimmed, the baseball diamonds put in good order, and the promenades are hard, and smooth.
—The students this year are all Knights of the Round Table. Formerly this privilege was accorded only to a few of the more deserving. Who will be the Sir Galahad among them ?
—Old Pluvius kept the sun from shining for several days, and made things as disagreeable as he possibly could. Sol finally drove him away, and now all are happy and every place looks its best.
—When you find a boy lagging around for two or three days without attending to study, under the pretense that he has not entered, put him down for a person who has no desire either to learn or to do what is right.
—The cry is “Still they come!” but all are not here yet. The faces of the Juniors brighten every time an old boy puts in an appearance, and that is several times a day —often accompanied by one or more new-comers.
—All who like a first class illustrated periodical should subscribe for McGee's Illustrated Weeldy. It is the only illustrated Catholic paper in the United States, is enterprising, and deserves the success which it has attained.
—The first game of foot-ball this session was played on the 7th inst., between the “ Reds ” and “ Blues ” of the J un-ior Department. The game was for a barrel of apples. The game was called after the first inning, owing to rain.
—We promised not to say anything about it, but still we can’t help thinking that if he continues to give them peaches on the sly they will soon begin to style themselves Father Mabe—’s—there! the name almost escaped us— Minims.	_
—Now is the time to renew your subscription to the Scholastic. Twelve large pages of reading matter every week for only $1.50 a year, making it th’e cheapest periodical in the English language. Will you not help us with your subscription?	-
—From a notice elsewhere it will be seen that all the students who were here at the time of the fire are eligible to a firsthonor in June, without having previously received a second honor. This is a special favor from the faculty, for this occasion only.
—On Wednesday, the 10th, the new steam-fixtures in the College were connected with the boilers and steam turned into the building. It was welcome too, for the weather for a day or two had been quite chilly owing, to heavy rainfalls here and elsewhere.
—The new desks for the study-rooms and seats for recitation rooms—designed by Bro. Philip, and manufactured , by the Noble School Furniture Co., of Goshen, Indiana, ‘	’
are decidedly the most perfect and convenient we have yet seen, and give entire satisfaction.
—Master W. J. McCarthy, of Boonesville, Mo., and Master Alexander Rietz, of Chicago, Hl., have been appointed J to take charge of the Junior study-hall. Mr. 8. T. Spald
28
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ing, of Lebanon, Ky., and Mr. J. B. McGrath, of New York ' city, have the Senior Study-hall.
—The Law Class is larger this session than at any time in the history of Notre Dame. As the class is composed of very intelligent young men it is expected that excellent work will be done and that the sessions of the Moot Court will be even more interesting than ever before.
—Very Rev. President Corby deserves great credit for the energetic manner in which he has pusned the work of constructing the new buildings. He did it in the quiet way peculiar to himself, without much talk, but with every order well weighed and matured before giving it utterance.
—Mr. J. J. Henneberry, who has charge of the force employed in putting in the gas fixtures, is ahead with his contract, and is ready for the gas to be turned on. This speaks well for Mr. Henneberry and his aids, and we believe his work will prove alike creditable to themselves and their employers.
—Most of the students have voluntarily taken a pledge to abstain from the use of intoxicating liquor during their absence from their homes. These young men will never regret the step they have taken. Tney by this determined act command not only the esteem of their teachers but the admiration of their companions.
—M. Buysse, of South Bend, has the thanks of the Junior Department for the beautiful bell which he has presented them and which now graces the Vice-President’s round table in their refectory. Mr. Buysse is cordially invited to drop in to dinner some day before long to hear how beautifully the bell sonuds.
—We had the honor of a visit from Right Rev. Bishop D wenger, of Fort Wayne, on Thursday and Friday last. His nephew, Joseph D wenger, Jr., accompanied him, and remains at the College. We hope our young friend Joseph will not get homesick here in St. Joseph County and on the banks of the picturesque St. Joseph River.
—Many of the students have returned accompanied by two, three, four, five, and even more new students. This shows, far better than words can express, the deep-rooted affection these young men have for their Alma Mater. May God bless them and make them efficient members of society, and reward them with a happy hereafter.
—The 1st Arithmetic, Sr., starts out with a larger complement of students than any other class in the Preparatory Department, and with a firm determination to be the banner class. Several Juniors of famous record have affiliated themselves thereto, and will make it lively for their older brethren. Prof. Ivers still has charge.
—From an editorial in the Western Watchman, Aug. 30, entitled “Educational institutions of note, whither sons and daughters may be sent,” we clip the following: “As for Indiana’s pride, the Notre Dame University, like a veritable phoenix, it has risen from its ashes. The description of it given elsewhere will be found good reading.”
—On Tuesday evening, the 2d of September, the lighted dormitories could not fail to strike the beholder. Three months before, the College was wiped out of existence; the new one was only on paper. Who can compute the vital energies that have been spent in planning and erecting the noble building? No one but God; few even give the matter a thought.
—From the South Bend papers we learned that Prof. Ivers and family made an overland excursion to Elkhart during vacation, driving there and back in a day, and that he was enthusiastically received and royally entertained by several old students of Notre Dame, principally among whom were Orville T. Chamberlain, A. M., of ’62, and C. M. Proctor, M. S., of ’75.
—The last number of McGees Illustrated Weekly—an exceptionably good one—contains a picture of the main building of the University of Notre Dame and a very flattering notice of those conducting it. We commend the Illustrated Weekly to the patronage of the friends of the University. It is published by J. A. McGee, 121 Waverly place, New York, at §3 a year.
—The Lemonnier Library will soon be in working order. Many books have been donated by generous friends, and others have been purchased by the Librarian. Rev. Presi
dent Colovin, of the Sacred Heart College, Water town, has promised to send a collection of valuable works, which will be thankfully received by the Association as a token of affectionate remembrance from the generous giver.
—The reorganization meeting of the Sodality of the Blessed Virgin Mary, at the Manual Labor School, was held on the 3d inst. The following officers were elected: A. F. Spangler, President; Jas. Fenton, Vice-President; M. W. Buchmeier, Secretary;----------------, Censor; Jas. Ward, Librarian. Mr. P. Moran, C. S. C., Director. Rev. Mr. Collins, C. S. C., gave the ten-minute instruction.
—The St. Cecilia Philomathean Association held the last meeting in the old College on the morning of April 23d, the day of the fire, at 9 a. m., for the distribution of the various parts of the play “ If I were a King,” which was to have been played on the 26th of May following; now they are the first Society reorganized, having met for that purpose on Saturday evening, the 6th inst., in their new and splendid room on the south side "bf the new College building.
—His Honor Mayor Tong, and lady, paid Notre Dame a visit on Sunday last. En passant we may remark, for the benefit of those who knew Mayor Tong in days gone by, and who have not visited this region lately, that he makes as good a city governor as he was and is a teacher, and that all will concede is first-class. This is what we can understand from members of all parties and no party. He is an honor both to his Alma Mater and to South Bend.
—A long and well contested game of baseball between the Excelsiors and Mutuals was played on Wednesday; score, 20 to 8, in favor of the Excelsiors. A ball was the prize. Some splendid playing on both sides. Many of the Mutuals were new boys at the game, so the brunt of the playing fell upon the few old and skilful hands, among whom Masters O’Neill and Burger were prominent. The game lasted two hours. Needless to say those boys slept soundly Wednesday night.
—An organization of the Mutual B. B. C. took place on Wednesday, the 10th. The following officers were elected: Director, Bro. Leander, C. S. C.; J. P. O’Neill, Captain; C. A Finley, Secretary; F. Kleine, Treasurer;’ A. J. Burger, Field-Captain. Positions: R. E. Fleming, catcher; J. P. O’Neill, pitcher; C. A. Finley, short-stop; C. McDermott, 1st base; F. Kleine, 2d base; A. Hellebusche, 3d base; A. J. Burger, left field; R. McCarthy, centre field; M. A. Vedder, right field.
—An organization of the Excelsior Baseball Club took place Wednesday, the 10th, and the following officers were elected: Director, Bro. Leander; Captain, J. Gibbons; Secretary,F. Grever; Field-Captain, A. Caren; Treasurer, R. O’Connor. Assignments to positions are: R. O’Connor, catcher; J. Gibbons, pitcher; J. McCarthy, shortstop; A. Rietz, 1st base; E. Sugg, 2d base; F. Grever, 3d base; A. Caren, left field; J. Brown, centre field; G. Foster, right field; J. Seeger and G. Rhodius, substitutes.
—The 1st Geography, Sr., starts out with a large number of industrious and well-disposed young gentlemen. As the reputation of the class has heretofore been A 1 for conduct and study, and the present members are resolved to maintain the same, any class that intends to capture the banner must get up and work lively. (That’s right, boys; nothing like good resolutions, hard work and emulation, to make ’79-’8O the best year on record. Do not flag in your efforts, but stick to your good intentions.—Ed. Scholastic.)
—Mr. Henry Bond, who for the last seven years has so efficiently discharged the duties of Assistant Postmaster in the neighboring city of South Bend, has retired from the position amid feelings of universal regret. Mr. Bond’s position kept him much before the public, and during his long term of office he has by his uniform gentlemanly courtesy and obliging manner endeared himself to a host of friends, at Notre Dame as elsewhere. The gallant soldier and obliging official has won golden opinions on every hand.
—The College and Church have recently been insured in the Companies for which Mr. Jacob Wile of Laporte acts as agent. The recent disasters have, it is useless to say, made_everyone at Notre Dame alive to the importanc
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
29
of having property insured at figures somewhat in the neighborhood of its real value. The friendly services of Mr. Wile during the past few months in adjusting the insurance on the old College, besides securing for him the grateful regards of all at Notre Dame, have made it a matter of course that business relations should be continued with the Companies which he so well represents.
—The old students when returning, miss an old landmark on the avenue leading to the College—the residence occupied by Prof. Ivers. No, boys: it was not a fire, as some of you may think—it was only a piece of Yankee skill and enterprise. The Professor engaged the boss mover of the Northwest, W. A. Staple, of South Bend, who moved house and other buildings a distance of more _ than a mile without accident or jar, and even to a more desirable location, near the Sisters’ place, in Lowell, a very convenient and agreeable site. The Scholastic wishes him and his estimable wife health and happiness in the old house and new location.
1/—We hear that a kind friend and benefactor of the Library has donated the opera omnia of Kuhney (Leipsic, 1842) comprising 12 vols., nicely bound: On Contracts (an exhaustive treatise); Travels; Commercial Law; BookKeeping ; Life in the Army; Orations, Patriotic and Religious, 2 vols.; Every Man his own Banker; Alcoholic Poisons; Total Abstinence in Theory and Practice (profusely illustrated); A Tour in Ireland; Vaticanism; The Mystical Portmanteau—A Tale of Recent Times; On the Evil Effects of Breathing Foul Air in Churches (An exceedingly rare work). Each of the volumes is embellished with a portrait of the author.
—Mr. Manly Tello, the editor of the Cleveland Universe'has the thanks of the young men of the Lemonnier Library Association for a free copy of his excellent periodical. The gift is the more appreciated because it was unsolicited. We are sure that all those who read his paper will appreciate the gift, for a better edited weekly can hardly be found. Mr. Tello is a live editor, as the well-filled columns of his paper bear witness. There are others whose merit in this respect commands admiration, who, like the Uni-• verse, not only keeps up with the times but ahead of them, that if time and space permitted we should like to mention but must at present defer the pleasant task.
—A large party of Methodist ministers who were in attendance at the late conference at South Bend, visited Notre Dame a few days ago, accompanied by the Rev. Mr. Stover. They were conducted through the University bv Father Walsh, Brother Assisi and Prof. Edwards, and were greatly surprised when told that the main building and the Minims’ Hall had been erected in less than ninety working days. Several of the gentlemen showed themselves to be persons of cultivated taste by their critical appreciation of the works of art which the cnurch contains. One of the guides was especially pleased with Brother Jones, who is the personification of good humor and kind-heartedness.
—As the “Kyriales” and Vesperals of last year were burned with the College, a large number of new ones have been procured from the publisher. Copies may be had at the students’ office. The Kyriale and Vesperal are now bound together, so there will not be the trouble of two books, and the hymns for Benediction which are in the Kyriale will be at hand. It is to be hoped that all who have good voices will join in the singing, both at Mass and Vespers, thus making a thank-offering to the Creator who » has so bountifully enriched them with natural gifts. In this way they will undoubtedly draw a blessing on themselves and their studies. The books will be given at the cost price, §1.25 a copy, and if returned in good order at the end of the year the money will be refunded.
—Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.—These educational institutions have opened this year with a much larger attendance of students than at any previous opening. They feel the effect of the good times boom as well as the industrial interests.— South-Bend Baily Tribune.
With regard to the University, the Tribune might more correctly have said “with a much larger attendance of students than at any opening for the last three or four years,” The number this year is much in excess of the last few years, but most of the'old students have not yet
returned, although they have made arrangements to do so. Besides coming themselves, many have promised to bring one or more new students with them. As to the Academy, we are not as well posted as our indefatigable friend of the Tribune, and we hope, and have good reason to believe, that what he says is true. No better place than St. Mary’s, we believe, for young ladies to obtain a first-class education, from plain sewing and cookery up to the highest accomplishments in music, painting, needlework and the languages.
—We are glad to learn from a communication to the Boston Musical Record of the 6th that the Conservatory of Music at St. Mary’s has met with such signal success in its efforts to cultivate this pleasing and usefol accessory to a refined education. The faculty at St. Mary’s have for years been pushing music, as well as the other fine arts, with a success that surprised and gratified every one acquainted with the institution, and now it seems music is pushing them for more room. May they soon have it! We hope the hard times just passed through, and which weighed so heavily on all private educational institutions, will not prevent the immediate supplying of the need. St Mary’s is one of the best educational institutions in this country or in Europe, and ’twere a pity it should be cramped for room. The following is the communication referred to: “The Conservatory of Music of St. Mary’s Academy, at Notre Dame, is distinguished for its excellence and thoroughness. 'The Musical Department of the Academy, which occupies one wing of the main building, is fast becoming too small to accommodate all of the musical pupils, and the piano-forte and harp students have to find other rooms. Besides the large vocal hall and its dependencies, and twenty-six rooms devoted to private lessons, more space is even now required, and a new building must soon be erected. The recent public exercises at the Academy, conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross, were very largely attended, and reflected great credit upon teachers and pupils. Among the works given were portions of Haydn’s ‘ Seasons.’ ”
—It was with deep regret we learned from the Chicago papers of July 19th of the very sudden death of one of our young Minims in that city, Patrick Fitzgerald, of Chicago, who was run over by the cars. Last year was his second at Notre Dame, and during that time he endeared himself to both his companions and his teachers, not only by his affability of manner, the offspring of a mild and generous heart, but also by his attention to duties both religious and secular. He was a member of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association and also of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary. He took a particular interest in everything. pertaining to these societies, and was one of their best and most active members. Though doing his duty with fidelity and punctuality in the Sorin Society, he seemed to be more especially interested in the Society of the Guardian Angels. His greatest delight seemed to be in being allowed to serve Mass. If it were not his “ turn,” and he learned that a server was unwell, he was always the first to ask to be allowed to take his sick companion’s place. He gave an instance of piety remarkable in one so young, when on a certain festival of the Blessed Virgin each Minim laid a written petition at the foot of the statue of our Lady, asking for some special grace or favor; his was: “ Mother of God, assist me at the hour of death.” And who can for a moment doubt but that when, a short time after, he was suddenly called from earth, she whom he had invoked was there to assist him ? His bereaved mother has the sympathy of the faculty and students of Notre Dame in her great affliction. Reguiescat in pace!
Personal.
—Rev. Father Stoffel occupies the chair of Greek.
—A. Hamilton, of ’77, is doing well at Flint, Mich.
—Mat. Kramer, of ’73, is flourishing at Detroit, Mich.
—Mr. Jas. Minton, of ’72, is in business at Alpena, Mich.
—E. Cleary is in business at Chicago, and is doing well.
—F. Luther is in business with W. H. Kinkaid, at Albion, N.Y.
30	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—	S. Marks, of ’74, is selling hats by the wholesale at Chicago.
—	Luke Evers, of ’79, has returned, to pursue a course of - theology.
'i-r-J. P. Quinn, of ’79, is about to enter the Seminary at Baltimore.
—	Father Lilly has not yet recovered from his long and painful illness.
-	L-F. St Aubin, of ’72, is residing at Grosse Point, near Detroit, Michigan.
—	C. Van Mourick (Commercial), of ’79, is in the drygoods business at Detroit, Mich.
—	W. R. Van Valkenburgh is book-keeping for his father at Huntsville, Alabama.
—	J. Marks, of ’74, is with A. 0. Slaughter, Banker, 136 Clark Street, Chicago, Ill.
—	A. W. Widdicom.be, of’79, is travelling in Wisconsin in the interests of a large firm.
—	Logan Murphy, of ’77, is editor of a paper in Texas. He was married a short time ago.
—	L. Martineau (Commercial), of ’74, is keeping books for Bascom & Co., at Doonto, Wis.
—	Rev. Father O’Keeffe, C. S. C-, is assistant pastor at St. Bernard’s Church, Watertown, Wis.
—	Rev. Father Peter Gormley, of ’63, is the highly esteemed and zealous pastor of Ohio, Ill.
—	Brother Celestine holds his old position in the students’ office, and gives instruction in Telegraphy.
—Edgar, Frank and Walter Carqueville (Commercials), of ’77, are residing with their parents in Chicago, Ill.
—	Geo. Hoffmann (Commercial), of ’69-70, is doing well in business with his brother at 191 South Clark St., Chicago, Ill.
—	Mr. O. Farrelly, of the Western News Co., Chicago, was at Notre Dame on Thursday, bringing two of his boys to school.
—	Mr. M. J. McCue, of .’79, has been appointed one of the tutors for the present year. He will also pursue a postgraduate course.
—	Jack Lambin, of ’77, paid us a visit during the past week. All the old students and professors were glad to see him looking so well.
—Little Louis Bassett, who visited Notre Dame last February with his mother, the sister of Prof. Edwards, died suddenly on Monday morning.
—	Mr. Hurth, C. S. C., formerly Director of the Manual Labor School at Notre Dame, has been appointed professor in. St. Joseph’s College, Cincinnati, Ohio.
—	R. McDonald (Commercial), of ’74, is with one of the largest wholesale and retail houses in Bay City, Mich. /He expects to visit his Alma Hater shortly.
f t —Rev. P. J. Golovin, C. S. C., formerly President of '* Notre Dame, now fills a similar position in the College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, Watertown, Wis.
—	Mr. L. L. Watson, of Vincennes, called to see us Sunday. The next time he comes North we expect him to remain with us at Notre Dame, not at South Bend.
—	Bro. Philip Neri enjoyed his business trip to Cincinnati. He found the old boys prosperous, and returned with several little fellows for the Preparatory Department.
—	Mr. A. B. Miller, the talented and gentlemanly editor of the South Bend Tribune, in company with Mr. Birdsell, of South Bend, paid us a visit on Sunday. Call again, gentlemen.
—	J. D. Wilson, of ’74, is engaged in the grocery business with his father at Hillsdale, Mich. John is one of the famous Hillsdale four who carried away the honors at the Saratoga regatta.
—A. Kreichgauer (Commercial), of ’74, whose home is in Paris, France, is at present residing in Chicago, Ill., being a refugee there from the yellow-fever-infected districts of the South.	.
"^-Rev. N. Stoffel, who has been at St. Benedict’s Church, in Brooklyn, N. V., for the past two months, returns his
most sincere thanks to his friends there for the many kindnesses shown him during his stay.
X—J. Rice (Commercial), of ’73-’4, is with a law firm at Chicago, where he is doing extremely well. He will be admitted to the bar some time this fall. Notre Dame has no more sincere friend than John.
—Rev. Wm. Murphy, of ’59, the lately deceased pastor of Bloomington, Ill., was so much loved and esteemed that the citizens erected a monument to his memory which was unveiled on Sunday, Sept. 7th.
—Mr. P. V. Hickey, editor of the Catholic Beaiew, in company with Rev. Father Cashman, of St. Jaris,th’s Church, Chicago, paid a short visit to Notre Dame during the past week. They are most welcome visitors.
—James and George Crummey, of ’75, are married and living at Summti, near Oconomowoc, Wis. A friend who lately visited them informs us that they have one of the best farms and most beautiful homes in the State.
—A member of the faculty who called at Watertown during the latter part of August returns his heartfelt thanks to Fathers Golovin and Carroll and Brother Paul for the many courteous attentions paid him during his visit.
—We were pleased to meet Mr. Jeremiah H. Falvey, of ’73-’74, who came here on Wednesday last with a younger brother whom he places at school here. Mr. Falvey resides at Winamac, Ind., and is County Auditor of Pulaski County. _
—One of the faculty had the pleasure of seeing Dr. C. J. Lundy at Detroit, where he has built up for himself an extensive and very lucrative practice. He desires to be kindly remembered to all at Notre Dame. His office is at 52, Lafayette Avenue.
'^cJames and Jack Quinn, of ’79, stopped over a few days at Notre Dame on their way East. They brought their brother and three or four other boys to remain here as students. They themselves are going to St. Charles’s Seminary, Baltimore, for Rt. Rev. Bishop Spalding of Peoria. We wish them success.
—Among the visitors here during the past week was Mr. E. F. Kelley, of the firm of Kelley & Enright, Chicago, and an old and esteemed friend of Notre Dame. He came to place his son at the College. Also Mr. Peter Ruppe, his friend, of Hancock, Mich., who, at Mr. Kelley’s suggestion, came on Monday to place his son at school here.
—Mr. Wile paid us a short visit a few days ago. Notre Dame appreciates the friendship of this gentleman, who although pastor of a congregation of Israelites at Laporte, is one of the firmest friends of the University. His children were educated here, and he has from year to year sent us several representatives of his faith to be benefited by the moral instruction imparted at Notre Dame.
—Married, at Notre Dame, Indiana, in the Church of the Sacred Heart, Very Rev. Father Provincial officiating, Daniel E. Maloney, Esq., A. M., of ’74, to Miss Mary A. Miller, both of Elgin, Ill. Mr. Maloney is a rising young lawyer and deserves success in his matrimonial as well as his legal career. It is unnecessary to remind his many friends here that he was one of the brightest ornaments of the Class of ’74; and has since been meritoriously occupied in preparing for himself the brilliant future his talents deserve. It is needless to say that Mr. Maloney and his consort have the sincere wishes of all at Notre Dame, that Heaven may bless their union, and that their wedded life may be a truly happy one.
—We are glad to learn that Hon. John Gibbons, A. M., a notice of whom we gave from a Keokuk paper in the last Scholastic, has been elected to the chair of Lecturer on Medical Jurisprudence in the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Keokuk, Iowa. The Annual Circular and Catalogue of that institution, speaking of Mr. Gibbons, says: “ Hon. John Gibbons, A. M., whose name is so familiar to the Legal profession of our State, has been selected to fill the vacancy occasioned by the death of John-Fyffe, A. M., our former able teacher in this department. Mr. Gibbons, in taking charge of this important department, will devote especial attention to the discussion of the principles of Legal Medicine, and the duties of medical men as experts in courts of justice, and in the examination
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	31
of medico-legal questions in insanity, suicides, infanticide, legitimacy, poisoning, injury and death from violence, duties of coroners, etc. His experience and learning warrants us in saying that this department will be clearly and practically taught, and made a favorite study by all members of the class.”
Roll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
M. T. Burns, T. J. Burns, J. B. Berteling, W. Boulger, F. Bloom, T. F. Conlan, W. Connolly, B, J. Claggett, B. Casey. J. Casey, Geo. Clarke, F. Clarke, L. Clements, T. B. Campbell, R, S. Campbell, D. Donahue, Geo. Donnelly, H. Deehan, L. Demick, L. H. Duginger, H. B. Dulaney, J. Delaney, M. English, E. Fogarty, M. B. Falvey, P. J. Hagan, C. L. Hagan, J. Halloran, F. Humbert, Geo. Harris, A. Hayden, J. H. Jordan, W. J. Jones, R. Keenan, J. R. Kelley, F. Kinsella, J. Kurz, A. Lent, P. B. Larkin, W. McGorrisk, E. McGorrisk. L. Marantette, J. Murphy, J. J. McErlain, J. R. Marlett, P. F. McGuire, J. D. McRae, W. McAtee, P. McCormick, E. Molitor, J. Moffett, J. Osher, R. C. O’Brien, J. Perea, Geo. Pike, R. C. Russell, F. Reeve, Geo. Sugg, S. T. Spalding, Thos. Simms, P. Shea, T. Summers, J. Solen, L. Smith, W. Scholfield, C. B. Van Dusen, F. X. Wall, C. Whalen, F. Weisert, A. F. Zahm, Thos. Zeien, W. McGee, M. Wolf, P. Vogel.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. J. Semmes, G. C. Castanedo, A. Mergentheim, J.F. Brown, R. L. Le Bourgeois, A. J. Burger, C. F. Perry, E. C. Orrick, F. L. Carter, T. F. Flynn, J. A. Herrmann, J. Gordon, A. Rhein-boldt, A. C. Hierb, H. P. Dunn, A. J. Hintze, T. P. Byrne, R. H. Pomy, A. Burmeister, H. G. Guynn, J. K. Schobey, R. E. O’Connor, J. A. Larkin, E. H. Croarkin, F. Quinn, G. Quinn, C. J. Brinkmann, A. A. Caren, A. Rietz. W. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, J. V. Cabel, F. H. Grever, E. G. Sugg, F. J. Rettig, L. Cole, R. E. Flemming, J. A. Gibbons, C. H. Thiele, F. Glade, J. Weitzel, A. Bodine, C. A. Tinley, A. Hellebusch, J. E. Litmer, J. P. O’Neill, J. T. Homan, F. A. Kleine, M. J. Burns, W. J. McCarthy, E. A. Otis, G. J. Rhodius, J. W. Kuhn, F. McPhillips, C. J. McDermott.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. R. Bender, J. 8. Courtney, J. N. Courtney, L. J. Young, C. Young, J. S. Garrity, G. E. Tourtillotte, W. F. Coolbaugh, G. Van Mourick, A. Van Mourick, C. L. Garrick, J. Banister, J'. Chaves, C. Welty, H. A. Kitz, Guy Woodson, E. N. O’Donnell, A. Kelley, H. Snee, E. Howard, Wm. Hamilton, F. Garrity, F. Farrelly, F. J. Leach.

—Never did St. Mary’s set out on her annual scholastic career with brighter sunshine on her pathway, with a more cheering prospect.
—It has been determined that excptional care will be taken with the English reading classes, and no one is to be deprived of the opportunity to secure facility in the art of good reading.
—On the morning of the 9th inst, Mother Superior left St. Mary’s on business connected with the Eastern houses of the Congregation of Sisters of the Holy Cross. Her stay will be short.
—Very interesting accounts come from the Academy of St. Mary’s, Salt Lake City. The Rocky Mountains are cordial in their welcome to those who promote Christian education, as the flourishing condition of the institution there fully attests.
—The Mass of the Holy Ghost was celebrated on Monday, the Feast of Our Lady’s Nativity, by Very Rev. Father General, C. S. C., this being the formal opening of the session, and now the noble clockwork of education moves to mark the golden hours of solid improvement. •
—Ladies who twenty years ago received the graduate’s medal now come to place their daughters under the shelter of iheir Alma Mater, and those who have learned of St. Mary’s from her best advertisements, the pupils who have been most true to her teachings, come to test her system of education by their own experience.
—A. gold medal for excellence in penmanship is to be given this year in the writing classes by Very Rev. Father General, and no pains will be spared to excite emulation in this most useful branch of scholarship—this art which, they say, is a sure tell-tale of character. Letter writing is to receive a like attention, and every inducement will be held out to render pupils perfectly at home in epistolary composition.
—Now the constant stream of carriages winding along the flower-bordered avenues, and amid the fragrant groves, fills the charming seclusion, for the time being, with the sound of city life and bustle; the unloading and unpacking of trunks, the examination and classification of new pupils, the parting with love home-friends, and the meeting with dear school-friends, remind all that the grand work of the year is really opening before us—that vacation is over.
—The September night falls early. Already the loquacious katydids have ceased their evening controversies, and in about half an hour after supper time the bell for gathering the pupils into the recreation hall summons the young ladies from their walks on the grounds; but that half hour beneath the twilight sky fortunately belongs to the most charming of the twenty-four, and of that period the young ladies make the very best possible use, if we are to judge from the light-hearted laughter and merry voices greeting the ear.
—The fable of the phcenix promises to be realized in the prosperity of “ the twin institutions, the University of Notre Dame and the Academy of St. Mary’s,” so lately visited by what at the time appeared to be a hopeless disaster. The destruction of the University buildings by fire in April last was a mutual calamity, but the sympathy and affection clustering around the ruins of the old Notre Dame, and which have so lovingly, and speedily erected her magnificent successor, the new Notre Dame, have also spread a fresh interest in, and exhibited more extensively the claims of St. Mary’s upon the esteem and confidence of the public.	‘
—The grounds, already so lovely, have greatly enhanced their rural beauly during the past summer^the lawns have been widely extended, and many fine ornaments have been added. Indeed, every object within and around the Academy breathes an air of freshness and encouragement, an affectionate welcome, so to speak, to the dear youthful intelligences, the young souls who come to St. Mary’s to avail themselves of her educational advantages; who come to grow in beauty, the beauty of mind and heart which can never die, just as the sweet transient flowers of the garden unfold on her consecrated soil and expand in their loveliness beneath her peaceful shades.
—Among the visitors of the current week, are the following: E. B. Moch, Editor Finter Era, Ind.; Jessie Hill, Chinto, Ind.; James H. Liddall, Ladoga, Ind.; W. W. Jones, Argos, Ind.; J. B. De Motte, Callen, Ind.; F. M. Wright, Ladoga, Ind.; W. F. Clarke, Fountsville, Ind., Dr. James Dunbar, Battleground, Ind.; Rev. J. H. Stover, South Bend; J. J. Thompson, Lafayette, Ind.; J. J. Briggs, Brookston, Ind.; L. T. Armstrong. Brookston, Ind.; James F. Darnall, Greencastle, Ind.; G. M. Blackstock, Lafayette, Ind.; David Huff, Althea, Ind.; J. C. Suit,Frankfort,Ind.; Whitefield Hall, Lebanon, Ind.; Rev. J. S. Morrison, Greencastle, Ind.; F. P. Patch, Brownsburg, Ind.; J. A. Clearwater, Goodland, Ind.; S. B. Town, Rossville, Ind.; J. B. Combs, State Line, Ind.; Delass M. Wood, Westville, Ind.; R. M. Richie, Lebanon, Ind.; Wm. Buck, Lafayette, Ind.; L. M. Hurt, Jamestown, Ind.; L. J. Ball, Kirklin, Ind.; C. F. Moore, and J. E. Wright, Waveland, Ind.; besides a large number ladies and gentlemen.
—General Ewing, John Sherman, Blaine, and Don Cameron are all bound together in one beautiful family tie. John Sherman’s brother, William Tecumseh, married Thomas Ewing’s sister, and Donald Cameron married a daughter of Judge Sherman, brother of John and Tecumseh. Mr. Blaine’s mother was a Gillespie, and the Gillespies are related to the Ewings. If these important jamilies form a combination to walk off with all the offices in the country, ordinary people will be compelled to take back seats.—Lafayette Times.
32	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Three Great Cities of the West
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R.
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Cars, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Cars and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
No extra charge for seats in the finest Reclining Chair Palace Gars in the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of any Class between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS
Tire Sliort Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Nebraska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the North and, South, and, to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Mining districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply at any coupon Ticket Office in the United States and Canada, or to
•James Charlton,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent, Cor. Dearborn and Adams sts., Chicago.
W. C. Van Hobne,	J. C. McMullen,
’ Gen’l Superintendent	Gen’l Manager.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical '	___and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
|^“ The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe.
tSF” In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.
Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Gold Medal for German, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger, of Fort Wayne.
Gold Medal for Domestic Economy, presented by Right Rev. Bishop Gilmour, of Cleveland.
Gold Medal for French, presented by Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Order of the Holy Cross.
Gold Medal for Drawing and Painting, presented by Dr. Toner, of Washington, D. C.
Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, presented by Mrs. M. Phelan, of Lancaster, Ohio.
Number of teachers engaged in Preparatory, Academical and Classical Departments, 14; Modern Languages, 6; Drawing and Painting, 5; Instrumental Music, 10; Vocal Music, 2 ; Dress-making, plain and fancy needle-work, 7.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address,
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame P. 0., Indiana.
GREAT SOUTHERN RAILWAY^LINE
C. I». ATMORE, General.Passenger and Ticket Agent.