Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disco quasi semper victurus; vivo quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 2, 1878.	Number 27.
Died.
At Rome, February 7th, Pope Pius IX, in the 86th year of his age and. the 32d of his pontificate.
A dirge for the Pontiff dead! a dirge of grief and pain, For the world will grow grey In the fading day
Ere it sees his like again.
A song for the Pontiff grand ! a song of joy and power ; For he stood as the rock -When the tempest’s shock
Breaks over it hour by hour.
A dirge for the Pontiff dead! a dirge that our grief will tell; A king, uncrowned, A captive bound,
( We have loved him long and well.
A song for the Pontiff grand! a song in the silent even, Whose swelling notes From million throats
Shall be heard in the star-gemmed heaven.
A prayer for Pius Ninth ! a prayer that his soul may rest, Washed pure and white In the dear Lamb’s sight,
In the City of the blest.
Bring ye the orphan’s prayer, bring ye the widow’s moan,
.	Bring the Christian’s tear
To his holy bier, Of these build high his throne.
Bring laurels for his brow, crown him with bays and oak, For he fought till death, He has kept the Faith,
And never his courage broke.
He spoke with the living tongue; and his words were words of r	fire,
As he taught the world,	'
And ’gainst sin he hurled
The wrath of his holy ire.
But his was a Father’s heart—for he was the Father of all— And his hand to bless With its tenderness
Was stretched out at the moment’s call.
, “Guard, well the Church I’ve loved,” these were the words he said
i-i	As heaven burst clear
I	On his vision there,
-I And men then called him dead.
. I	Oh no! the good ne’er die, they live with us al way;
;	And this golden chain
Will be linked again
; Adown to the latest day.
A song for the Priest of God! a song of triumph free, As that which rang When Miriam sang
O’er Egypt’s broken sea.
A prayer for the widowed Church! a prayer in her trial hour; That God will guide O’er the troubled tide
The bark that holds her power.
Give her, 0 Christ! at the helm a hand like this that is cold, And a heart as pure, And a mind as sure,
And a tongue as gentle and bold.
Give her back Pius IX, whatever the name he may take, To drive the waves
To their ocean caves
That o’er Peter’s ship may break.
♦ * * * * « *
A prayer for Pius IX! a prayer that his soul may rest, Washed pure and white
In the dear Lamb’s sight,
In the City of the blest.
War. Louis Kelly,
St. Paul, Minn., Feb. 10,1878.
—Northwestern Chronicle.
Leo XIII.
Cable dispatches from Rome on the 20th ult. announced that His Eminence Cardinal Joachim Pecci, the late Pontifical Camerlengo, had been elected Pope, and assumed the title of Leo XIII. The dispatches state that the smoke of burning ballots having been seen at 12.30 p.m., the crowd before the Vatican thinking the ballot was again without result had almost dispersed when, at 1.15 p. m., Cardinal Cateroni appeared in the grand gallery of the Vatican Basilica and announced in the customary formula Cardinal Pecci’s succession to the Papacy. The bystanders cheered most enthusiastically and a large crowd soon assembled, densely thronging the open space before the Vatican and the approaches thereto. At 4.30 the newly-elected Pope, surrounded by all the Cardinals, appeared in the inner gallery of the Basilica. The crowd vociferously shouted, “ Long live the Pope! ” The Holy Father at length made a signal for silence, then intoned the Benedicite and pronounced a benediction. After this the cheering was renewed and continued until the Pope withdrew.
The crowd before the Vatican waiting for the benediction of the Pope is estimated to have numbered twenty thousand. Only a portion of the crowd was able to hear the benediction, as the inner gallery from which it was pronounced looks into St. Peter’s.
As soon as the result of the election became known, the
418
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
bells in al! the churches of Rome were rung, and the diplomats went to the Vatican to congratulate the new Pope.
Cardinal Pecci was born in Carpineto, diocese of Ag-nagni, on March 2,1810. He is therefore fourteen years older than was Pope Pius IX at his accession. Having been ordained priest, his exceptional executive ability and fervent devotion attracted attention to his labors, and he was assigned to difficult posts, the duties of which he discharged with uniform success. Consecrated Bishop while still young, he was installed Archbishop of Vescovo di Perugie; and on Dec. 19,1853, Pope Pius IX published him Cardinal, his titular church being St. Chrysogonus trans Tibere. During the period of the Pope’s temporal administration, Cardinal Pecci exercised the functions of protector over Corciano and Denita. His duties in Rome related chiefly to the Congregation of Rites, of immunities, and of the regulations of discipline.
There are three Cardinalitial orders, namely Bishops, Priests, and Deacons; of a total of seventy constituting the Sacred College, six are Cardinal Bishops, fifty Cardinal Priests, and fourteen Cardinal Deacons. Pope Leo XIII was a Cardinal Priest. Only the six Bishops of the sub-urbicary dioceses of Rome are Cardinal Bishops. All other Cardinals, even though Bishops by consecration and in charge of dioceses, are but Cardinal Priests or Cardinal Deacons. The Cardinal Camerlengo is selected with a view to the discreet and able transaction affairs of the Church during an interregnum. Assisted by the heads of the three orders of Cardinals,—the Bishops, Priests, and Deacons,— the Camerlengo has charge of all the affairs of the Church from the death of a Pontiff until the election of his successor. Pius IX displayed singular tact in the selection of men for difficult and delicate duties. During the first session of the Vatican Council, Cardinal Pecci resided in the Quirinal Palace, and was known as one of the workers, not one of the orators, of that memorable body. He was much observed by the foreigners in attendance, for the first glance at his stature discerned the tallest member of the College—and a man who is the tallest of sixty-four is one to attract notice. His figure, too, is straight, graceful, and supple. He stands erect and firm, his frame well knit, and his movements notable for their grace. Age has scarcely told upon him beyond the lines and furrows and gray hair; and although now sixty-eight, he is said to have the vitality, the self-composure, and the nerve of a strong man of fifty. He was very industrious in attending to committee duty in the Council; and whenever he tarried in a corridor to greet a new-comer, especially if from abroad, his courtly manners compelled passers-by to stop and take a second look. “He has the most suave countenance I ever saw upon a human being,” said Rev. Dr. Roles. Rev. Father Burke describes him as resembling Cardinal Manning strikingly in a certain austerity and dignity of countenance, but the great English convert lacks somewhat the warmth and winningness of the Italian prince, and never more charmingly illustrated than by the suavity of Leo XIII.
When the Piedmontese soldiers possessed themselves of Italy, and Victor Emmanuel determined to take the Quirinal for his family residence, Cardinal Pecci was forced to find other quarters; and Pius IX, who had had ample opportunity to study his character and become thoroughly acquainted with its dominating traits, evinced a liking for his society, which was well known in Rome. There was something essentially noble and benignant in his manner, which was not unlike the benignity of the late
Pontiff himself, and while his intellectual strength and ex-quisite^nesse have caused him to be likened to Richelieu, his rare sweetness of address endeared him to the simplest of those with whom he came into contact. When, therefore, Pope Pius IX, on Sept. 21st, 1877, appointed him Camerlengo, the general endorsement of the action of His Holiness arose not only from the personal admiration and esteem in which Cardinal Pecci was held, but also from the general conviction that the Holy Father had displayed his characteristic wisdom. For it was apparent that in making a choice, Pius IX was conscious that his end was not far off; and who could foretell the conditions in which the Church would be placed until a Pope could be chosen ? What assurance did the aspect of European affairs give that the Conclave would be permitted peaceably to assemble in Rome, and proceed undisturbed to the conclusion of its labors ? There was reason to fear that if the Italian Government did not embarrass it, the mob of secret society revolutionists, who comprise the dangerous element of Rime, would undertake to break it up by violence. Ground for apprehension existed that Germany, usurping the veto power, and assisted by the royal cabinet in Rome, would claim the right—in conjunction with the so-called" Catholic powers,” Austria, France, and Portugal—of objecting to any Cardinal except one who would pledge himself to surrender the principles of spiritual supremacy to the dictation of political despots. That the Conclave might not be able to meet in Rome was not impossible, and that its assembling abroad might be attended with embarrassment and interruption it was not unreasonable to expect. The Camerlengo, therefore, should be a man of invincible courage, such a man as Gonsalvi, one versed in the intricacies of diplomacy, and prepared to foil intrigues and break up cliques; one whose personal virtues would gain over enemies, and whose talents, as well as his virtues, would be capable of sufter-ingwithout weakness the severest strain. Profoundly impressed with the possible dangers of the situation in which the temporary head of Christendom might be placed, Pius IX selected Cardinal Pecci as Camerlengo.
The fact that his name had been mentioned as one of the few from whom the new Pope would be chosen, had the effect of creating the belief that he could not possibly be Pope. There is an Italian proverb, “ He who enters the Conclave Pope, comes out Cardinal,” which has been heretofore held almost as tenaciously as if it were doctrine and the free circulation of rumor making any particular member of the College Pontiff was accepted as virtually putting an end to the wishes of his friends. Cardinal Pecci’s case is the first exception to to this rule in nearly a century.
It has been represented by the cable that Leo XIII has been chosen chiefly on account of his moderate opinions, and of the probability of his compromising with the Italian Government concerning the temporal interests of the Church in Rome. But it is emphatically declared that the Pope elect is not a compromiser where rights are involved, and Leo XIII will faithfully and loyally perpetuate the policy of his august predecessor, so far as the unacknowledged injustice of the seizure of the Eternal City by the invading Piedmontese may come before him for review.
The newspapers further state that the election of Cardinal Pecci to fill the chair of St. Peter has given universal satisfaction to the various magnates of Europe, even including Bismark and tlje Piedmontese Government officials at
4
r
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
419
Rome, but we reckon this of little or no importance. Pius IX, prisoner and all as he was, proved a rock in the way of European despots and political corruptionists, and they are no doubt glad that he has been removed; but they will find Peter in his successor, as did the conscienceless Henry of Germany in Pope Gregory VII, who as Cardinal Hildebrand had been recommended for the tiara by Henry himself. There is this difference however between Pope Gregory VII and Leo XIII, that the latter takes his place in the Chair of St. Peter without the recommendation of any earthly potentate. These have cut themseves loose from the Church; the loss is theirs, the gain is that of the Church, which in former times condescended somewhat to the caprices of princes for the sake of their spiritual welfare and that of their subjects, which alone is what the Church has any interest in. Those princes and dynasties have passed away, but the Church and the See of St. Peter still remain, and will continue to the end of time. Leo XIII but takes his place as a link in the glorious chain of Pontiffs from Saint Peter down to the present time, and all the powel-s of earth cannot destroy this chain or break one link of it. They have tried it for over 1800 years, but have always failed. Leo XIII is the 263d link in this unbroken chain: he will in time pass away, to be followed by another and another, and so on down to the end of time.
Pittacus.
Pittacus, the fourth upon whom Grecian history has bestowed the title of wise, was born about the 29th Olympiad (660 B. C.) at Mitylene, a small town of the island of Lesbos. He was the son of Hyrradius, who seeing the enterprising spirit of the boy, had him carefully educated in the military branches and all the other accomplishments suiting his age and disposition. Pittacus accordingly became a brave soldier, a renowned officer, a good philosopher, and, better than all, a good and respectable citizen. He held throughout his life the maxim that a man ought to suit himself to the times, and avail himself of opportunities,—a very good maxim indeed, when a person is directed by good principles, although those actuating Pittacus, as we shall see, are seldom such as command our approbation.
As his first enterprise, he entered into a league with the poet Alcmus against the tyrant Melanchros, who had usurped the sovereignty of their country, and succeeded in defeating him. The high honors which the city conferred out of gratitude upon him, and the uncontrolled power which it placed in his hands, raised a bitter enmity against him in the mind of Alcrnus, who but too frequently made him the object of his satires and scourged him with the most bitter invectives, calling him an oppressor and ridiculing the peculiarities of his personal appearance. Alcteus was in consequence driven into exile, and endeavoring by force to free his country he fell into the power of his former friend, who, forgetting all that had passed, generously granted him both life and freedom.
A dispute concerning the island of Achillea, where the shades of the ancient heroes were fabled to have their Elysian field and to enjoy the perpetual felicity to which their benevolence to mankind had entitled them, had given rise to a long and destructive war between the Mitylenians and Athenians. The Mitylenians chose Pittacus for their commander. When the two armies were in sight of each other and ready to engage, Pittacus proposed to decide the
battle by single combat, challenging as his antagonist Phrynon, the Athenian general, a man of uncommon size and strength, who in every kind of combat had always come off victorious and had been frequently crowned in the Olympic games. Phrynon accepted the challenge, and it was resolved that the victor should be held the undoubted conqueror of the territory in dispute. The two generals, without any attendants, advanced to the open space between the two armies. Pittacus had provided himself with a net which he concealed under his shield, and of which he so artfully availed himself that when Phrynon seemed to have nothing to fear he threw it over his head and entangled him in it, exclaiming: “I have not caught a man, but a fish.” In this action there was no valor, and in the speech accompanying it there was less of wisdom ; but, even so, Pittacus availed himself of the opportunity, and slew his antagonist, in sight of the two armies, thus remaining master of the territory. According to Strabo’s account, Pittacus came into the field armed with a casting-net, a trident, and a dagger, and it is said that from this stratagem of the Mitylenian was borrowed the mode of fighting practiced by the Roman gladiators who were called retiarii.
Henceforward Pittacus was held in high esteem among the Mitylenians, and was entrusted with the supreme power of the State. Age, however, had tempered the ardent spirit of Pittacus, and a long and painful experience had taught him to meet the different aspects of fortune with undaunted firmness. Having established good order in the state, he voluntarily resigned his office, which he had held for twelve years, and entirely relinquished the management of state affairs, to give himself up to philosophical studies.
After having long desired the gifts of fortune, and sought them with eagerness, he now at length had come to look upon them with contempt. As a reward for his many services the Mitylenians offered him a fine estate, watered by rivulets, and beautifully diversified with woods and vines, —likewise several farms, the revenues of which might have enabled him to live with splendor in his retreat; but he accepted only of as much as he could measure by a cast of the javelin, and one half of this small portion he afterwards dedicated to Apollo, saying that “ a part was more advantageous than the whole.”
According to Cornelius Nepos, the Mitylenians offered Pittacus many thousand acres, but he took only a hundred, saying that these gifts, free from the envy and covetousness of many, were sufficient to indicate both his own moderation and their good will: small presents are lasting, rich ones are neither permanent nor becoming.*
Being invited by Croesus, the rich king of the Lydians, Pittacus gave the following answer: “You wish to bring me into Lydia, to see your treasures: without seeing them I have no doubt but the son of Halyattes is the most powerful of kings; but though I had all you possess, I should not be richer than I am. I have no need of wealth: with the little that is necessary for the subsistence of myself and a few friends, I am contented. To gratify you, however, I shall pay you a visit.” When Pittacus arrived at Sardis, Croesus had just subjugated the Asiatic Greeks, and was now preparing a fleet to set out against the islands. Croesus asked whether he had any news from Greece. “O king,” answered Pittacus, “ the islanders are enlisting a large
* Trasybulus, IV.

420
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
number of cavalry; they have resolved to make war upon you and to attack Sardis itself.”
Croesus understood the philosopher to be sincere, and exclaimed: “May the gods inspire the islanders with the thought of attacking the sons of the Lydians with horse 1 ”
“I suppose,” returned Pittacus, “you wish to see the islanders on horseback upon land, and I must say you are in the right: but do you not think that the islanders also will laugh heartily when they understand that you intend to bring a naval force against them ? They will be charmed with meeting you and your Lydians at sea, and will have the satisfaction of avenging the hard fortune of the Greeks whom you have reduced to slavery.”
Croesus supposed that Pittacus was acquainted with his design; he accordingly abandoned it, and made an alliance with the Greek islanders.
The person of Pittacus was very unprepossessing. He was very corpulent, had always sore eyes, in dress was negligent, and from weakness or distortion of his feet his gait was very ungraceful. He had married the daughter of the legislator Draco, who was a woman of fiery temper and insupportable insolence. She valued herself very highly on her birth, and entertained the most sovereign contempt for her husband, because he was not handsome. One day he had invited several of his friends to dine with him. When all was ready and dinner on the table, his wife, who was always in an ill humor, overturned the whole; Pittacus apologized to his guests, saying, without the least emotion: “ This is a silly woman; we must excuse her weakness.”
- The great misunderstanding which had always subsisted between himself and his wife gave him much aversion to ill-matched marriages. A certain person came to him one day to ask his advice in a case of this kind. He had in his choice two women, the one nearly on a level with himself, the other of a rank considerably higher both by birth and fortune; the question was, which of these two he should choose. “ Go,” said Pittacus, raising the staff on which he was leaning, and pointing with it, “ go to those children that you see at play there, and follow their advice.” Having approached the children the young man heard them say to each other: “ Take a match thatjs your equal,” which at once decided him against taking the lady ■whose station was above his own.
So temperate was Pittacus, that although Mitylene abounded with the most delicious wines he seldom drank anything but spring water. He secretly advised Periander to abstain from wine if he wished to succeed in his design of becomming master of Corinth and of retaining the tyranny.* He ordained that a man, who has committed any fault in drunkenness, must be doubly punished.
He used to say that necessity was a thing so strong that even the gods were subject to its laws; that it was in the government of a state that a man might best discover the extent of his genius; that wise men ought to anticipate the misfortunes that may befall them, so as to be able to prevent them; and that when they had taken place, men of spirit ought to support them with magnanimity; that it was very dfficult to be a good man; that there was nothing better for man than to execute well what he is at the
* So absolute power or monarchy was termed in such cities as had heretofore enjoyed perfect liberty of government, no matter how plausibly it may have been obtained and how leniently it may have been exercised, in ancient times. ' '
present engaged in; that, in order to succeed, a man ought to form his plans with caution and execute them with promptitude; that those victories are the most valuable which are gained without the effusion of blood; and that in order that an empire may be properly governed, the king and all in authority ought to be as obedient to the laws as the meanest subject. “Never boast of your schemes,” be used to say to his followers, “ lest, if you fail to accomplish them, you be exposed to the double mortification of disappointment and ridicule. Never reproach any one with his bad fortune lest you yourself should be reduced to the like situation. Speak ill of none, not even of your enemies. Pay attention to your friends, and take care not to lose them; but live among them with as much circumspection as if they were one day to be your greatest enemies.* Love charity, frugality and truth. Reverence the gods. With fidelity restore what is committed to your care, and never reveal a secret. Whatever you do, do it well.' Do not that to your neighbor which you would take ill from him. Be watchful of opportunities. Hide your fortune, but by guarding against envy do not excite pity. If you wish to know a man, invest him with great power; if you want to be well treated by your children in your old age, respect your parents in your youth.” The most fortunate state is that in which the bad are not allowed to rule. The best regulated house is that in which there is nothing superfluous, but everything necessary.
Pittacus had also composed some verses in which he laid down that a man ought to take his bow and arrows, and whenever he met a bad man, to kill him, because, as he was always double-minded, no confidence could ever be reposed on what his mouth uttered. A large sum of money having been sent to him by Croesus, he refused to accept it, and coldly answered: “ I am already one half richer than I wish to be; for my brother has died without children and I succeed his fortune."
The answers and replies of Pittacus were always prompt and striking. Whatever question was proposed to him, he was never embarrassed for an answer. Being one day asked what was the most changeable thing, he answered : “The course of the waters and humor of women.”— What is it that ought to be put off as long as possible? “The borrowing money of a friend.” What is it that ought to be done in every place and at every time? “To profit by the good and evil which take place.” What is most agreeable? “ Opportunity.” The most secret? “Futurity.” The most faithful ? “ Land.” The most unfaithful ? “ Sea.”
Tyrracus, the son of Pittacus, happening to be one day at Cumae in a barber’s shop, where the young people usually met to discourse about the occurrences of the time, a tradesman unguardedly threw a hatchet which struck the head of Tyrracus and split it in two. The inhabitants of Cumae laid hold of him as a murderer,.and brought him before the father of the deceased. Pittacus, having obtained accurate information of all the circumstances, found that no blame ought to be attached to the man; he sent him back acquitted, because, said he, a fault committed without intention merits pardon; and he who avenges it by punishing the innocent unjustly, himself becomes culpable.
There are many things in the life of this philosopher
* This is to treat our friends as enemies, but if we were to form a maxim on this subject consistent with the spirit of Christianity, we should say: “Treat your enemies as friends and they will soon become such.”	'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	421
that are certainly worthy of admiration and imitation, but there are others which have no just claim to our approbation. His conduct toPhrynon was cowardly and cunning; and his speech on the occasion unmanly and silly. In his conversation with Croesus he does not hesitate to lie; and in another place he advises Periander to avoid one vice from whose effects he himself suffered, that he might be enabled to carry on a series of crimes and barbarities which would injure thousands. Many similar passages might be quoted, but their truly pagan sense and their inconsistency with the revealed doctrines of Christianity are so apparent that they could not fail to be detected and detested even by the youngest of our readers. In these pagan philosophers we meet with much to admire and much to avoid. But if our conduct be not better than theirs, we ourselves are far worse, because our advantages are infinitely greater.
Pittacus passed the latter part of his life in retirement, occupied, as is related, in grinding corn. Part of his time however, he devoted to poetical compositions, and obtained some celebrity as an elegiac poet. Only a few lines of his productions are extant, preserved by Diogenes Laertius. His death occurred on the island of Lesbos, in the 52d Olympiad, about 5G9 years before the Christian era.
Purity of Language.
There is nothing that more readily conveys to us a good or bad impression of a person, or that more clearly distinguishes the man of refinement and culture from the rude and pretentious upstart, than language. In the same manner that we know the moral worth of a man by the company he keeps, so also can we estimate a person’s intellectual worth by the language he uses. Language is the medium through which we express our thoughts, feelings and sentiments to others; it is, in short, one of the distinguishing characteristics between man and the brute creation. Asa ray of light is transmitted through glass with a brilliancy proportionate to the clearness of the glass, so are our thoughts and ideas expressed with a brilliancy according to the perspicuity of our language. We should endeavor then, to make this medium through which we express our thoughts as clear as possible; in other words, we should aim at purity of language. Now, what is the meaning of this term, purity of language? does it signify a use of high-sounding words, turgid and metaphorical expressions? Not at all; for when we hear any one thus expressing himself, we at once take it as a sign that he is a person of limited attainments, and, like all such, is desirous of showing off what little he knows. Although it is from a mistaken idea of their propriety that persons often indulge in the use of such words and expressions, yet it is far better to err in this respect than to go to the opposite extreme, of indulging in low and vulgar language. This at once characterizes the person as being of a depraved turn, low and vicious in disposition. In looking at a stream, you will often notice that the water instead of being clear and transparent, presents, on the contrary, a murky and disagreeable appearance; this you will at once attribute to the nature of the soil through which the stream runs. In the same way, precisely, when we hear a person using vulgar or profane language, we at once judge that it is but the effusion of an impure corrupt heart. We may, in some degree, excuse the pedant, but for the one who uses mean or low language, there is no excuse, for
“Immodest words admit of no defense, For want of decency is want of sense.”
Our language, then, to be pure, should be simple,—that is, devoid of all that would give it an appearance of affectation, or make it savor of pedantry, and at the same time, and above all, free from vulgarity. The great fault with young writers is that they are too solicitous of introducing into their writings foreign words, for the purpose, it would seem, of displaying their linguistic attainments; and again, in their endeavors at rounding off their periods, and regulating the cadences of their sentences, instead of beautifying or strengthening, they weaken the whole by useless pleonasms. To acquire purity of language we should use such words only as have received the sanction of our best writers and speakers; together, with this it should be the object of the beginner to write with all the perspicuity and clearness possible. It is by this means alone that one can learn to write, or even to speak, with any degree of elegance and grace.	K. C.
Scientific Notes.
—During a recent expedition to Costa Rica, Mr. A. Bou-card collected about 1,000 specimens of birds, representing 250 species. Two species are new to Science (Zonotrichia boncardi and Sapphironia boncardi of Mulsant), and many are of great rarity.
—A curious candle used in Alaska is a fish eight inches long, almost transparent, and very fat, the fat being pure white and very sweet. The Indians dry this fish, then light it at the tail, and it burns with a clear, sparkling flame, which the wind will not extinguish.
—Twelve species of moths have been found in Iceland, but butterflies are said not to inhabit the island. When Sir William Hooker visited Iceland, in 1809, not one of the latter species had up to that time been met with, nor has their occurrence since then been recorded.
—The centennial of the death of Linnteus was observed, on the llth of January, in most of the cities of Sweden. At Frankfort-on-the-Main, the day was celebrated at the Goethe House. At Amsterdam, where Linnaeus passed the early part of his life, ceremonies in his honor took place on the 10th.
—It is argued by a French physician that persons suffering pain should freely indulge in crying and moaning, as these expressions are intended by nature as a means of lessening physical anguish. The attempt to suppress crying in children is deprecated, as the consequences may be St. Vitus’ dance, epileptic fits, etc.
—The Berlin Geographical Society, founded by Alexander Von Humboldt and Karl Ritter, will celebrate its fiftieth anniversary on April 27 and 28. Delegates from all the Geographical Societies of Germany and Austria have been invited, and it is expected that over 1,000 persons {will partake of the banquet closing the festival. The Ber-in Society has 700 members.
—Several communications from different observers have appeared in Hardwicke's Science-Gossip, which tend to show that the blackbird and song-thrush (Turdus musicus) sometimes mate. One writer testifies that he watched the thrush on its nest for many days. Its eggs combined the markings of the eggs of the thrush and blackbird; and, when hatched, the thrush was assisted by a blackbird in the care of the young birds.
—The staminate and pistillate flowers of the ailanthus are borne on separate trees, and the blossoms of the first-named sort alone have the disagreeable odor which has brought the tree into such evil repute. If the trees bearing pistillate flowers were solely cultivated in our cities and towns, they would become the favorites they deserve to be from their beautiful foliage. The Botanical Bulletin notes an instance, lately recorded, in which an ailanthus hitherto bearing staminate flowers put forth a branch having pistillate flowers, succeeded by perfect fruit.
—Three vacant places in the French Academy of Sci


422
THE NOtTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC/
ences have been occasioned by the deaths of Regnault, Becquerel, and Leverrier. The full number of members is sixty-six, who are divided into eleven sections of six each. Ten French Free Academicians also belong to the body, with eight Foreign Associates and one hundred Corresponding Members. Of these last, France has thirty-two; Germany, nineteen; Great Britain, sixteen; Russia, six; Italy, two; Austria, one; Denmark and Sweden, four; Switzerland, four; Belgium, two; United States, three; Brazil, one; and there are eleven vacancies.
—H. Von Siebold, Attache of the Austrian Embassy at Yeddo, has lately discovered a prehistoric mound at Omuri, near Yeddo, from which over 5,000 articles in stone, bronze, etc., were obtained. The origin of the terracotta images found in old Japanese burying-grounds he ascribes to a custom prevailing in Japan down io the year 2 B. C-, of surrounding the grave of a dead emperor with a circle of his attendants, buried alive to the neck: their heads, in a ghastly row, encircling the burial-spot These living sacrifices were replaced by terra-cotta images when the barbarous custom of human slaughter was abolished, at the date referred to.
—It is proposed in England to divert a portion of the flood water of the Nile into the deserts of Lybia, Nubia and Soodan. The yearly Nile floods are caused by the influx of water laden with soil from the Abyssinian plateau. This soil is now principally deposited in the Mediterranean, where it is forming a new delta. The projector of this gigantic scheme is Sir Samuel Baker, who suggests the construction of sluices and dams at different points of the Nile, including the cataracts, and asserts that these latter would then be rendered navigable, and enable craft to sail from the Mediterranean to Gondokoro. Sir Samuel thinks that, by meaus of an irrigation of the deserts, a range of cotton fields could be created which would render England independent of America for the great staple.
—The Roman correspondent of The Pilot (Boston), writing on Feb. 2d, says: “The illustrous astronomer and Jesuit Father Angelo Secchi has been ill for some days. He has received the last Sacraments, and little hope was entertained of his recovery. He is afflicted by cancer in the stomach, which may be reckoned as au almost incurable disease. The bulletins published daily concerning his health exhibit varying states, but no special ground for hope. His robust health has supported him through the wearing malady that he suffers'from. His mind is calm and clear, and his thoughts as brilliant as his words. Not only does he discourse with great facility with the physicians and with those who assist him, but he also occupies himself with what goes on in his beloved Observatory, near to which his room is situated. Every day he confers with the Jesuit Fathers Ferrari and Marchetti, and the Oratorian priest Father Lais, who attend him in his sickness, and who are also astronomers. The Tare ability of Father Lais in astronomical science has gained him the friendship and familiarity of Father Secchi. The illustrious Jesuit was born in the States of the Church about the beginning of the present century. His reputation is world-wide. For many years he has been Professor of Astronomy and Director of the celebrated Observatory of the Roman College. The Italian Government, after the invasion of Rome, strove to have him in their pay, an offer which he refused. He was, however, permitted to continue his beloved scientific researches in the place where so many years of his life were passed. Many discoveries in astronomical science are owing to Father Secchi, and many important works have been published by him. He has written upon recent discoveries in Astronomy upon the True Epoch, and upon Galileo’s Blindness, upon Solar Physics, and the latest Discoveries made on the surface of the sun by means of the Spectroscope, and a very large and important work upon the Sun, containing an Exposition of the principal modern Discoveries concerning' the structure of this planet, its influence, and its relation with the other heavenly bodies. The hope that he may conquer the disease that now renders his state so dangerous is sincere and widespread.” Since putting the above in type, the Atlantic cable brings intelligence of the death of Rev. Father Secchi, which occurred Feb. 25th. He was born in the States of the Church, and at an early age entered the Society of Jesus, of which he died a devoted member.
Art, Music and Literature.
—An elaborate book on “ Railroads and Railroad Ques- I tions,” by Charles Francis Adams, Jr., is in the press.	|
—An interesting fragment of a historical papyrus, record-	|
ing the fifty-fourth and fifty-fifth years of Barneses H, has	J
been lately acquired by the British Museum.	!
—Turgueneif, the famous Russian novelist, has under- ' taken to edit a new series of letters by Pushkin, the poet, and chiefly addressed to his betrothed in 1830 and 1831.
—The Athenaeum states that the new Folk-lore Society . has some idea of inaugurating the commencement of its career by undertaking a translation of Jacob Grimm’s “ Deutsche ATytTwlogiey
—According to the Leipsic catalogues sixteen thousand four hundred and seventy-three works were published in Germany during the year 1877. This is two thousand more than the average of the last eight years.
—Remarkable relics of Odinic Myths, still current as folk-lore rhymes, have reached Karl Blind from Shetland, and will be published and discussed by him in an essay showing their origin and connection with the ancient -Teutonic creed.
—“The Temptation” and “The Expulsion of Adam and Eve,” by C. M. Duboufe, are on view at the Royal Danish Gallery in London. They were painted for Charles X of France, and their author was a pupil of David. Copies of the pictures were years ago exhibited in the United States.
—The coming book about Sothern is called “ Birds of a Feather; or Talks with Sothern,” and is in the nature of a series of interviews, in the course of which he gives an autobiographic sketch of his life, from the time when he did not become a surgeon, and entertaining reminiscences i of his theatrical experience and practical jokes.
—The London Times has entered the field as a publisher of books. Its first venture was a “ Summary of Events Since the Year 1851.” Its next will be an octavo of four hundred pages, combining a diary of each day’s events, with meteorological reports and a review of the year’s occurrences, all made up from the columns of The Times.
—A series of panoramic views of Paris are being prepared by the Municipality for the approaching Exhibition. They are taken at a bight of 500 metres, and each one is five metres square. One of the views gives the Champs Elysees, in which every house is faithfully represented; and another shows the Tuileries and the course of the Seine.
—Mr. Seymour Haden, .whose- etchings receive the highest praise in England, will publish twelve new plates in the spring, upon the plan adopted by the old painteretchers ; that is, he will retain control of the plates, and sell the impressions himself. There will be no proofs struck oft’, and the number of impressions will not be declared beforehand, although the plates will be destroyed while yet in a good state.	t
—There were published in 1877 in England 5,095 new books or new editions, as against 4,888 in 1876. Novels, as usual, take the lead, summing up the frightful number of 854 new works of fiction. Theology comes next, with 737 books; educational, 529; juvenile, 522; history, biography, etc., 373; poetry and drama, 358; voyages and travels, 209; commerce and political economy, 189; arts and sciences, 189; law, 118; medicine, 215, and miscellaneous, 802.
—Two important sales of Rembrandt etchings are announced to take place in London. One consists of the collection of the late Mr. Danby Seymour, in which it is-supposed there are some great rarities. The other comprises about 300 duplicates from the Cambridge Library. Among these there are many superb impressions and early plates. They were collected by the Bishop of Ely, who died -in 1714, and were bought and presented to the library by George the First.	-
—The sixth tomb in the Acroprolis of Mycenae, which ( was discovered by M. Stamataki last November, contained two skeletons, one of which had a gold mask. With them were found a gold-embossed cup, two gold trifurcated orna
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	423
ments for greaves, gold pendents for a breastplate, gold buttons and nails, and bronze swords and caldrons. In the earth thrown aside by Dr. Schliemann’s workmen there has been recovered, with other objects of interest, a gold ornament representing two lions face to face, and resting on a three-leaved lotus-flower. It resembles the sculpture over the Gate of Lions, and is strikingly Assyrian in character. The excavations are being prosecuted with diligence, but no traces of other tombs have been met with. The discovery of the sixth and last is regarded by many as a complete confutation of the theory of Dr. Schliemann, that those which he unearthed were the five tombs mentioned byPausanias as belonging to Agamemnon and his companions. A large mass of pottery is accumulating from the excavations, besides ornaments and beads of ivory, glass, and stone, weapons and tools of various kinds, and some remarkable intaglios.
—The Cincinnati Biennial Musical Festival will take place the coming 14th, 15th, 16th, and 17th of May, under the direction of Theodore Thomas and Otto Singer. The soloists are: soprani, Mdme. Eugenie Pappenheim and Mrs. E. Aline Osgood; tenori, Chas. Adams and Christian Fritsch; baritone, Sig. G. Tagliapietra; contralti, Misses Annie Louise Cary, Emma Cranch, and Louise Rollwagen; bassi, Messrs. M. R. Whitney and Franz Remmertz; organist, George E. Whiting, The evening concerts take place Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, May 14,15,16, and 17. The choral and instrumental music for the concerts is of the highest character. It has been chosen with the view to represent great historic masters together with distinguished modern composers, as “Scenes from Alceste,” Gluck; “Dedication Cantata,” Singer; “Messiah,” Handel; “Scenes from Romeo and Juliet,”Berlioz; “Grand Mass,” Liszt; “Eroica Symphony,” Beethoven; “Scenes from Gotterdamerung,” Wagner; “ Ninth Symphony,” Beethoven; “Chorus from the Meistersinger,” Wagner. The matinee concerts take place on the afternoons of Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, May 15, 16, and 17. These will be among the most attractive entertainments of the festival. They will introduce the Grand Orchestra in varied and popular music. The distinguished solo vocalists will also appear in choice arias, duets, trios, and concerted pieces from operas, oratorios, and other compositions, by a great number of composers. The Festival of 1878 will also have the honor of opening the magnificent Music Hall, which has been the gift to the people of Reuben R. Springer and his associates. These ceremonies will take place on the night of Tuesday, May, 14. The renowned Thomas Orchestra will be increased to one hundred performers by the addition of the best musicians of the New York Philharmonic and distinguished soloists. There is no exaggeration in saying that the Festival Orchestra will be the most perfect in the world. The Mass Chorus is composed of singers carefully selected for their voices and power of execution. There are eight Cincinnati Societies in the Chorus, and one each from Hamilton and Dayton. Many of the singers in the Chorus are soloists of pronounced merit and wide celebrity. The splendid new organ, built for the Music Hall by Hook & Hastings, and one of the five great organs in the world, will, on this occasion, be played for the first time. Season tickets, including reserved seats for all the evening and afternoon concerts, will be sold at ten dollars each. The choice of seats for the season tickets will be sold at auction on April 15 and 16, commencing at ten o’clock a. m. No person will be permitted to purchase more than ten tickets. On April 17 the sale of season tickets will be opened in the ordinary way; only those tickets which have been sold at auction will be marked from the plat, and this sale of season tickets will continue until April 27, after which no more season tickets can be purchased. The sale of reserved seats for single concerts will begin on April 29, and continue until the Festival.
—There is almost an unbroken wilderness in the Northeastern portion of Minnesota, along the British boundary line, which, though containing no great amount of arable laud, is filled with lakes that are well stocked with fish and abounds in iron, lead, zinc, copper and silver. Pine timber is also abundant and granite without end.
Books and Periodicals.
—We have received from the publishers, Messrs J. Fischer & Bro., 226 E. 4th St., New York city, Fischer's Practical Organist, which we will notice next week.
—We have received the first volume of Rev. A. J. Thebaud’s “The Church and the Gentile World,” publishing by P. F. Collier, 38 Park Place, N. Y. In a week or so we will give it a proper review.
—We have received from Van Antwerp, Bragg & Co., of Cincinnati, Ohio, Bay's New Primary Arithmetic, Bay's New IntdlectuaL Arithmetic, and Bay's New Practical Arithmetic, which we will notice at length next week.
—The Atheneum, of Springfield, Ill., the February number of which lies before us, is a monthly journal devoted to elocutionary literature. The number under our eye is replete with choice selections. We can recommend it to all wishing to spend half-hours with the best authors, for it culls from the classic literature of the language. $1.50 per annum. Address, The Atheneum, Springfield, Ill.
—There is no magazine that we take more pleasure in recommending to our young readers than Our Young Folk's Magazine, the March number of which we have just received. The editor, Rev. Thos. Scully, possesses the rare tact of judging just what is suitable for the young mind, and this he furnishes in his magazine. We are somewhat tired of the phrase added to nearly every book-notice we see, “No Catholic family should be without it,” but in this case that may truthfully be said.
—“ The Teacher of Our Faith" is the title of a lecture delivered in the Cathedral of Alton, Ill., by Rt. Rev. Bishop Baltes, and published by Mr. B. Herder, No. 19 South 5th St., St. Louis, Mo. The lecture is written with great logical clearness, and with a vigor which will command the attention of the intelligent reader. It must carry conviction to the unprejudiced mind, for there is no evading the arguments. Lectures such as this before us and that of Bishop Ryan on “What Catholics do not believe” will certainly do good; they will dissipate many illusions and prejudices existing against Catholics, and should therefore be well circulated among non-Catholic readers.
—Douglas Jerrold, being a very nervous man, usually suffered torments of apprehension on the first representation of any of his pieces. A brother dramatist—remarkable for his successful specimens of “ fair adaptation or imitation” from the French—on one such occasion sought to rally the trembling scribe by stating that he himself never felt any nervousness on the first production of his own pieces. “ Oh, my boy,” said Douglas, “ but then you are always so sure of success! Your pieces have all been tried before!”
—The Pantheon, wherein they have laid the carcase of Victor Emmanuel, was a pagan temple. It stands in the centre of Rome. Time seems to have dwarfed it. The fact is that the city of to-day is built upon the ruins of ages, and is at least thirty feet higher than it was two thousand years ago. Pantheon is a Greek word, and means “ To all the Gods.” It was built 27 years before Christ by a private citizen of Rome, who wished to dedicate it to Augustus Ctesar, but as he refused the honor, it was made an earthly home for Jove and the whole crew of Olympian deities. It is circular, with a dome and an imposing portico. Formerly it was cased outside with marble, but time and barbarians have laid bare its walls, which are massive though unsightly. A gigantic statue of Jupiter once occupied the centre, and the gods and goddesses of all nations, in silver and gold statuettes, decorated the niches within. It remained pagan until the year 610, when it was handed over by the Greek Emperor to the reigning Pope, who freed it of its idols and consecrated it to the Mother of God and all the martyrs. Raphael, the prince of painters, lies there under the Lady altar. The great cloaca or main drain of the city runs under it, and when Father Tiber is restless and angry in his bed, it is through the middle of the pavement of this church that he first finds vent for his overflow. The Pantheon will often lie buried in ten feet of water and mud, but its foundations are uninjured.
424
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Jjanit
Notre Danie, 31arcli 2, IS7S.
College Rowdyism.
Doubting Thomases who have of late felt their orthodoxy shaken by the pulpit utterances of the Farrars, Beechers, Swings, et hoc genus omne, would do well, before fully making up their minds as to the non-existence of hell, to pay a short visit to the institution presided over by the learned Dr. McCosh. New Yorkers always did seem to have an idea that hell was situated somewhere in New Jersey, and the recent hazing and shooting disturbances at Princeton must have enabled them to fix its latitude and longitude with greater precision. A long time ago— many years before the world had grown to be as humane and civilized as it is at present—we see from the old comedies, if they may be supposed to reflect the manners of the age, that such nocturnal diversions as beating policemen, tearing down signs, insulting the passers-by, etc., etc., were not considered unworthy of gentlemen. At about the same remote period it was generally taken for granted that a young man on entering boarding-school or college bade farewell for a time at least to anything savoring of delicacy, humanity, or regard for the feelings of others. The type of the collegian of the period may be exhumed from such works as “Ratlin the Reefer,” or “ Charles O’Malley.” However, we were under the impression that the world had got beyond all that, and that the age of progress had completely eliminated such relics of barbarism from the work of education. And yet, we find that our conclusions had been formed too hastily. For downright cruelty we would be willing to back the Princeton undergraduates against any crowd of schoolboys that young Ratlin ever had to deal with. The fact is that in reading the account of their recent exploits we occasionally found trouble in persuading ourselves that we were not perusing some of Mark Twain’s veracious sketches of life in the flush times of Nevada, or Bret Harte’s history of the Argonauts of ’49. This too, not in some obscure, straggling institution on the outskirts of civilization, but in a pretentious, high-toned college under religious direction and within a few hours’ ride of the Empire City. “ ‘ Boys will be boys ’ you know,” is the excuse that will be put forward for the Princeto-nians, but since when is “ boy ’’ to be taken as the synonym of rowdy or blackguard ? Were a crowd of poor Polish or Bohemian laborers to imitate the example of the young bloods of Princeton, we wonder how strong such arguments as the hot-headedness of youth, etc., would prove in shielding them from punishment ? And we humbly suggest to the peace-officers of the staid old town of Princeton that a week or two in the lock-up, with a bill of fare of bread and water, would be found an excellent method to cool the over-heated blood of the average riotous “ hobble-de-hoy”—“man” he would perhaps feel inclined to style himself in New Jersey. If there is anything which we have in utter aversion it is Pharisaic boasting, and yet we do feel sadly tempted to congratulate ourselves on the fact that Notre Dame has never been obliged to take steps to repress the senseless, barbarous, inhuman practice known as hazing.
The Thespians’ Entertainment.
Somehow or other we have had bad weather on the evenings of all the Entertainments given during the past scholastic year. It rained outright when the St. Cecilians appeared in Washington Hall, and if the Thespians did not have it on the 2lst they had a near approach to it, for the sky was dark and lowering and the air was chill and damp, and the roads were very bad. May the Columbians and the Philopatrians be blessed with better weather.
The evening, then, of the 21st was not such as would lead one to expect much of an audience in Washington Hall, but when the Thespians appear it must be very bad weather—nay more, it must be frightfully bad weather that will keep the people away. Consequently, notwithstanding the bad roads, the lowering clouds and moist atmosphere a fine audience assembled to witness the presentation of “ Henry IV.”
The Hall was beautifully decorated with evergreens, and the national colors hung suspended from all places where it could be done without obstructing the view of the stage. All who possessed flowers were laid under contribution, and lilies and other hot-house flowers were used with profusion but at the same time with taste, to make the hall look its loveliest.
The Entertainment began at 7 o’clock with music by the College Band. We might say at the start that the music of the Entertainment, furnished by the Band and Orchestra, has been spoken of so often in The Scholastic that no further mention of it need be made, other than to say it was of the usual quality. The singing of Mr. M. T. Corby, of Chicago, was highly relished, and he gracefully responded to an encore given with such a heartiness that it could not but be appreciated by the excellent vocalist.
The Oration of Mr. John G. Ewing was, as are all his productions, replete with thought and sentiment. It was not a panegyric, after the usual style of Fourth of July orators, but a review of the works accomplished through the instrumentality of the great man the anniversary of whose birth was that day celebrated. The recitation by Mr. P. J. Hagan of the selection entitled “Benedict Arnold” was marked by considerable art and was well received by the audience.
The play selected for the evening’s Entertainment was Shakespeare’s “Henry IV,” part I. This play, considerably abridged, has ever been a favorite here, containing as it does such a number of good characters. There is the fiery Hotspur and graceful Prince Hal for those who are fond of the tragic, and then there is §ir John Falstaff and his roistering crew for those who believe in the adage of “ laugh and grow fat.” And right here we would wish to say a word or two concerning the drama at Notre Dame. If our college were in a city, where young men could attend innocent amusements, where they could attend Thomas’s Concerts, and other entertainments of the kind, we would be one of the first to discourage dramatic exhibitions by the students. But here in the country there must be something done to afford entertainment, and there is nothing which accomplishes this more thoroughly than the drama, as here given. It does more towards making the winter months pass by pleasantly than all other things combined. Besides, the Entertainments are given by different societies, so that no one student loses any considerable time in preparing for them.
As we said before, the drama chosen by the Thespians
\
\
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	425
was “Henry IV.” The parts were as a rule well distributed, and although we judged that some one or two parts might have been acted much better than they were, yet on the whole the roles were well played. When we speak here of people taking parts well, etc., we mean that as amateurs they took them well, for we do not wish to compare their playing with star professionals, for that would be folly. Joseph P. McHugh (Prince Hal) had a very good conception of his part, and portrayed the character with success. August K. Schmidt (Hotspur) displayed great fire and graceful acting. Eugene F. Arnold assumed the character of “Sir John Falstaff” with considerable happiness, and was the occasion of much mirth. J. J. Quinn made a very good “King Henry,” while Ambrose J. Hertzog (Bardolph), E. J. McMahon, (Prince John), William L. Dechant (Worcester), Patrick J. Cooney (Westmoreland), William H. Arnold (Northumberland), Martin J. Regan (Blount), John P. Quinn (Vernon), Luke J. Evers (Poins), John J. McEniry (Gadshill), John J. Coleman (Quickly), J. D. Montgomery (Roby), and W. Ohlman (Douglas), were successful in the personation of the characters assumed by them. Some of them were more than happy, but, alas! that we must say it, some there were who paid but little attention to the management of their voices, and others who emphasized so much that there was not an emphatic word in all they said. The remaining roles were taken by Messrs. V. McKinnon, P. J. Hagan, H. C. Maguire, P. J. Mattimore, J. Lambin, M. McCue, P. F. McCullough, T. F. O’Grady, and others, all of whom acquitted themselves to the satisfaction of the audience. The epilogue was well spoken by Joseph P. McHugh, and, we had almost forgotten it, the prologue by Wm. Ohlman.
The play over, the closing remarks, by request of Very Rev. President Corby, were made by Rev. P. J. Golovin, of St. Bernard’s Church, Watertown, Wis. His remarks were practical and to the point, and elicited general applause. The Entertainment was, taken altogether, very pleasing, and passed off with credit to all who took part in it; but above all, praise is due to the energetic Director of the Association for the hard work and great painstaking displayed by him in arranging and preparing for the Entertainment, and for the severe drilling to which he subjected all at the rehearsals.
Personal.
‘ -	—L. McOsker, of ’73, is in business at Elgin, III.
.—T. J. Dundon, of ’73, is teaching school in Marquette, Wis.
—	L. D. Murphy, of ’77, is studying law at Ann Arbor Mich.
—	E. Halpin (Commercial, of ’74,) is farming near Toledo, Ohio.	,
—	F. Phelan (Commercial, of’74,) is in the mercantile business in St. Louis, Mo.
—	J. H. Cooney, of ’76, resides in Washington, D. C., where he is studying law.	'
—	J. Morton Burge (Commercial, of ’74, is reported as doing well in Nashville, Tenn.	.
—	E. Mullen (Commercial, of ’73,) is travelling for Ricker & Crombie, of Milwaukee, Wis.
—	P. Reilly Commercial, of ’75,) lives near Monroe, Mich; he is following farming.
—	J. Hogan, of ’75, is studying Theology in Mount St. Mary’s Seminary, Cincinnati, O.
—	Joseph Shanks (Commercial, of’70,) is clerking for Flint & Kneeland, Milwaukee, Wis.
—	Albert Potter (Commercial, of ’74, is residing in Kalamazoo, Mich., where he is prospering.'
—	Lewis and James Smith (Commercial, of ’75,) are in business with their father in Cleveland, O.
—	We were pleased to see C. M. Proctor, of ’75, last week. Mr. Proctor is looking well, and, we learn, is prospering.
—	Thos. M, O’Leary, of ’75, who is teaching school for Father O’Rourke, had a grand exhibition by his scholars on the 9th.	*
—	Revs. A. B. Oechtering, Mishawaka, M. Noll, Elkhart, and T. O’Sullivan, Laporte, came over to see the Thespians on the 21st.
—	Chas. A. Krieter (Commercial, of ’74,) is now employed in the Freight Department of the Pennsylvania Central R. R. at Toledo, where he is doing well.
—M. T Corby, of ’65, came over from Chicago to witness the Thespian Entertainment. Mr. Corby is now connected with the house of Durands & Co., Wabash Avenue, Chicago.
—Rev. W. F. O’Rourke, well known here as a Professor for some four years, delivered before a crowded house in Middleton, Ohio, a lecture on “Prejudice and its Consequences.” It is spoken of as a fine effort by the Middleton Journal
—Everyone should make it his duty to inform us when any of his relatives come to Notre Dame. It is impossible for us to meet all who come, and frequently friends of the house come and go and we are not informed of it. This is not right. We waut The Scholastic to chronicle everything of interest to students and their friends.
Obituary.
Sister Mary of the Sacred Heart, during the past few years infirmarian at Notre Dame, departed this life at the Convent of the Sisters of the Holy Cross here on Monday, February the 25th, after a long and painful illness borne with edifying patience and resignation. Those of the students who had occasion to experience the care of this devoted Sister will no doubt remember her with grateful hearts, for she was ever kind and attentive in her ministrations to the sick under her charge. The care of the sick is, as all know, one of the most arduous and apparently most thankless duties that can devolve upon a person, and what with sleepless nights and wearing care this good Sister was ever devoted and attentive, ever thoughtful in forseeing the wants of her patients. It is only when health returns that this thoughtful kindness is felt and appreciated as it should be, and there can be but little doubt that those of the students of former years who passed any time under Sister Sacred Heart’s care will learn the news of her death with regret, and will breathe a prayer for the repose of her soul. May she rest in peace.
Local Items.
—The different baseball clubs are now reorganizing.
Mass will be sung on Monday and Tuesday mornings at 9.30.
—The property-men of the Thespian Association are very tasty.
—Soft and moist weather was what we had at the close of last week.
—The Juniors are grateful inasmuch as the benches in the centre of their play-hall have been removed.
—The Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary has the neatest badge of any society in the College.
—The new statue of Our Lady of Lourdes which is temporarily in the new Scholasticate is one of great beauty.
—The Philopatrians are all engaged in learning to fence, as each one expects to get the fencing part in their play.
426
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The second nine of the Excelsiors was beaten by the Actives at baseball last Wednesday by a score of 12 to 7.
—The committee of arrangements at the Thespian Entertainment deserve great credit, especially Mr. W. Dechant, chairman.
—The coming 4th of March is the one hundreth anniversary of the birth of one of Ireland’s greatest sons, Robert Emmett.
—Why not return a vote of thanks to the Senior Orchestra for the excellent music rendered on these long recreation days ?	•
—Messrs. O’Grady, Mattimore, McCullough, McCue and Lambin at the Thespian Entertainment showed themselves first-class military men.
—Occasionally there is heard a solitary gobble in the Senior department, which has led some to believe that there is a turkey over there.
—Next Wednesday is Ash-Wednesday, the first day of Lent. Services will be held in church as usual. The Mass sung will be Jifissa Parvulorum.
—We see the statement in a number of our exchanges that Pomeroy's Democrat has ceased to live. Well, all we have to say is that it’s a mighty lively corpse. *
—The receipt of an interesting acoustic instrument, donated to the Cabinet of Physics by Master George Rhodius, of Indianapolis, Ind., is gratefully acknowledged.
—The first regular game of the season was played Feb. 26th, between the University and Enterprise Baseball Clubs. The score stood 19 to 29 in favor of the Enterprise.
—The Junior Class of Calisthenics are trying to gain a vast amount of good, and if they only keep up as they have begun they will come out perfect next April, when the Class closes; so let them try.
—At a meeting of the Active Baseball Club held Feb. 26th, the following officers were elected: Director, Bro. Leander; Captain, T. O’Hara; Secretary, James McNellis; Treasurer, A. Sievers; Field-Captain, A. Rietz.
—The election of officers 'in all the Societies took place some time ago. In the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association the officers are the same as during the last session, except that Masters Baker, Bloom and Berteling were elected monitors.
—At a meeting of the Enterprise Baseball Club, held Feb. 12th, the following officers were elected: Director, Bro. Theodore, C. S. C.; President, John P. Hagan; Secretary, Virgil F. McKinnon; Treasurer, William L. Dechant; Censors, John Lambin and Harry Nevans; Captain, William Ohlman.	-
—The 23d regular- meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held on Saturday, February 23. Essays were sread by Masters Healy, Carroll, Berteling and Cassidy. The following delivered declamations: Masters Widdicombe, Baker, Jones, C. Hagan, Burns, F. Cavanaugh, and T. F. McGrath.
—The “Forty Hours’Devotion” to the Blessed Sacrament begins to-morrow. Tnere will be a procession after Mass through the aisles of the church, after which the Litanies will be chanted. The Mass sung will be Afissa Regia. Vespers will be those of the Common of Pope and Confessor, page 48 of the Vesperal.
—The 22d regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopa-trian Association was held Monday, February 25th. Among other things, the feature of the evening was a little comedy entitled “A Cure for Deafness, etc.,” by which the vocal powers of Masters K. Scanlan, McCarthy, and Gibbons were displayed to advantage. Masters J. Scanlan and P. Nelson were elected members.
—We have received several numbers of The Spectator, published by the students of St. Francis’ College, Brooklyn, N. Y. The Spectator is an eight-page monthly publication, neatly printed on tinted paper, and makes a very creditable appearance. We trust that it will receive a liberal support from the students, alumni and friends of St. Francis’ College, and in the course of time come to us not monthly but weekly.
—R meeting of the Mutual Baseball Club was held Feb. 27th, and the following officers were elected: President
and Directer, Bro. Leander; Secretary, J. G. Baker; Treasurer, F. E. Carroll; Field Captain, W. Doyle; Captain, M. Byrnes. The following are the positions: Catcher, J. Matthews; Pitcher, G. Donnelly; Short-stop, E. Pennington; 1st Base, J. S. Lemarie; 2d, W. D jyle; 3d, J. Baker; R. F., G. Crawford; L. F., M. Byrnes; C. F., F. Carroll.
—Bradshaw, Rande’s counsel in chief, wound up his address to the jury in the following luridly impassioned style: “If you are to be governed by that feeling (prejudice) it would be better for my client to be in an ocean of blood, in a boat of stone, with oars of iron, and sails of lead, and the wrath of an avenging God for a gale, and hell for the nearest port, and then expect to land on Canaan’s happy shore, as expect justice from such a jury.” How is that for rhetoric ?
—The 10th regular meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary took place Sunday, Feb. 24th. The ten minutes’ instruction was given by Mr. A. M. Kirsch, C. S. C. The following took part in the exercises; Frank W. Cavanaugh read a “ Sketch of the Life of St. Alphonsos Liguori,” C. Cavanagh read an essay on “ Confession,” and W. A. Widdicombe delivered a short discourse on “Indulgences.” After the closing hymn the meeting ajourned.
—The 23d regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held February 25th, and the election of officers for the present term took place. The result was as follows: Director, Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C.; Honorary President, J. F. Edwards, LL. B.; President, J. A. Lyons, A. M.; Promoter, Bro. Theodore, C. S. C.; Dramatic Instructor, A. J. Stace, A. M.; Vice-President, J. J. Fitzgerald; Secretary,S. T. Spalding; Corresponding Secretary, P. J. Dougherty; Treasurer, A. Keenan; Censors, J. Houck, F. McMullen; Critics, T. Fischel, C. Nodler; Sergeant-at-arms, J. H. McConlogue; Librarian, J. H. Lambin ; Prompter, A. Congar; Marshal, M. Bannon.
—Rumor has it that a certain gentleman here, who is at times very absent-minded, was one day taking a walk, and being in deep cogitation at the time, he suddenly and unexpectedly collided with a cow: “ Excuse me, madam! ” exclaimed the absent-minded gentleman. The feelings of the good man after he discovered his mistake may more easily be imagined than described. Continuing his walk, however,-he gradually fell into his accustomed train of thought, when, as ill luck would have it, he ran against a lady from Lowell, and shocked the ears of the young lady by exclaiming: “Ha! you old brute! is this you again!” Since then the good old man has contented himself with a walk around the Senior Campus.
—At the 10th regular meeting of the Thespian Association, held January 28 h, the following officers were elected for the ensuing session: Director, Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C.; Assistant-Director, Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C.; President, J. A. Lyons, A. M.; Dramatic Critic, A. J. Stace, A. M.; Promoters, Bro. Theodore, C. S. C., J. F. Edwards, LL. B.; Vice-President, J. J. Quinn; Treasurer, W. L. Dechant; Corresponding Secretary, P. J. Cooney; Recording Secretary, J. P. Kinney; Censors, A J. Hert-zog, V. McKinnon; Librarian, M. J. Regan; Prompter, J. J. McEniry. At a special meeting held after the Exhibition of the 22d, a vote of thanks was tendered to Prof. Edwards, Bro. Simon and to the members of the Senior Orchestra for favors.
—On Tuesday evening last the St. Cecilians had one of their most enjoyable feasts. The spread was such as their worthy and zealous Director, Prof. Lyons, well knows how to give, and shall need no mention but that of praise. After a perfect enjoyment of the good things placed before them, Father Corby furnished the boys with a neat little speech in his happiest manner. The remainder of the evening was passed, as Juniors do know how to make it, in singing, dancing, and declaiming. Among the quests we noticed Very Rev. Father Corby, Rev. Fathers Walsh, Kelly, and Zahm, Prof. Edwards, and Bros. Leander and Paul. The evening passed off well and joyfully, and we echo the wish of all present of long life to the Cecilians and their energetic Director; and may we enjoy in their company many more such occasions.
—The writers for the Notre Dame Scholastic invited us to attend “ the carving of a turkey ” on January 29th, but get-

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	427
ting the invitation on the 28th, the turkey was safe from us. It was well for the company we were not there— though it made no difference to the turkey, we don’t suppose.—The I. G. B. B. Journal. The invitations were mailed one week before the “ carving ” took place. We cannot understand why it was they were so long getting to their destinations. However, next year (B.c.) we will send them off one month in advance, so that there will be plenty of time for everyone to get here, and if our friends of The I. G. B. B. Journal, the Catholic Mirror, and other papers, will honor us with their presence, they can “ make up” over a “drum-stick” and start their Association of f	Catholic Journalists without opening a subscription.
Remember the 29th of January, 1879—“when oysters are i	at their prime.”
—Now we object, in all sincerity, that the old complaint made that “ the critcisms in The Scholastic of entertainments are simply complimentary notices of those who took part,” is unfair. The reports in The Scholastic are just, with a little leaning to the opposite of puffery. Being confined to our room on the 21st, it could not be expected that we should report the Entertainment. At first we were inclined to modify some things in our reporter’s account, because, although we did not witness the play, we were fearful lest he might be too complimentary. But after reading the reports in the South Bend papers, reprinted in our paper, we have come to the conclusion that our reporter was almost too stinted in his praise. The fact is, the most severe reports of Entertainments at Notre Dame are those which appear in The Scholastic, for the Chicago and South Bend papers are nearly always enthusiastic iu their praise.
Notre Dame, Feb. 21,1878. To the Editor of The Scholastic.
Dear Sir:—lam happy to inform you that the means of solving the long-vexed question of our whereabouts are at length at my disposal. We are in Latitude 41° 42' 12”.7, and in Longitude 86° 14' 19”.3; hence we differ from Greenwich time by 5h. 44m. 57s.29. As the decimal of a second in Latitude represents a distance of only ten feet, and in Longitude here of about 7}/ feet, it may be well that your readers should know that the point whose Latitude and Longitude are thus designated is the statue on the summit of our dome.
The Michigan State line, immediately north of us, is in latitude 41° 45’ 39'.3, showing a difference of about two-fifths of a mile from its reputed position in 41° 46'. This is an encroachment on the part of our neighbors which it is now too late to reclaim.
I have the honor to be, Mr. Editor, your most obt. very humble servant,
The Professor of Astronomy.
—If any thing will bring poetry to the soul of a Ken tuckian, it is roast turkey or spring chicken. The Notre Dame folks invited the editor of the St. Paul Chronicle to a “turkey carving” and instanter he smacks his lips and glides into rhyme. We subjoin the poem, with the suggestion that “Bill Kelly ” should have shown better manners than to have asked the boys if they really meant to let him have any of the turkey after the carving. He always was a hungery fellow though—(to parody an old song, “ We have fished and lunched together.” This is what Manly Tello has to say of us in the Cleveland Catholic "	Bniverse. We copy it to protest to our young friends of
Notre Dame that it was not bad manners, but simply an abundant caution, that made us hint at having our share. The recollection of having “ fished and lunched ” with a certain editor, and how hungry we remained after he had lunched rendered us a trifle careful. That’s all.—North-Western Chronicle. If Mr. Tello and Mr. Kelly will promise to attend our banquet on the Feast of St. Francis de Sales next year, we (B.v.) will guarantee turkey and all the etceteras sufficient in advance for them, besides keeping in reserve a wing for ourselves.
—The Chicago Times, under the headings “ The Hero of the Hatchet—Exercises at the University of Notre Dame in honor of the boy who had the moral courage to chop down a Cherry Tree,” publishes a special despatch of a reporter sent to Notre Dame on the evening of the 21st, as follows: —“The annual celebration of Washington’s Birthday at the University of Notre Dame, by the Thespian Association,
to-night, drew an immense audience, notwithstanding the unfavorable weather. The occasion was graced by the presence of Very Rev. Father Granger, Provincial; Very Rev. Father Corbv, President; of the University; Rev. Father Walsh, Vice-President; Rev. Father Golovin, ex-President of the University, now of Watertown, Wis. ; M. T. Corby of Chicago, brother of the President; T. Nelson, and E. Esmer and lady, of Chicago; Rev. T. Sullivan, of Laporte; Mr. Coghlin and lady, of Toledo; Hon. P. Gibbons and lady, of Keokuk, Iowa; Rev. M. Noll, of Elkhart, and Rev. A. B. Oechtering, of Mishawaka. The oration of the evening was delivered by John G. Ewing, son of Judge Ewing, of Ohio, nephew of Hon. Thomas Ewing. The string and brass Bands of the University furnished the music of the Entertainment. P. Hagan, of Dungannon, O-, gave a declamation on the last hours of Benedict Arnold, and Prof. M. T. Corby, formerly teacher of vocal music for some years in the University, sang a song by request, and obligingly responded to the enthusiastic applause with a second. The principal feature of the programme was the play, somewhat abridged, of “Henry IV.” The king was personated by Jas. J. Quinn, of Tolono, III.; the prince by Jos. P. McHugh, of Lafayette; and Hotspur by A. K. Schmidt, of Chicago; and Falstaff by E. F. Arnold, of Washington. The play was received with great satisfaction, and the characters named were indeed presented with a good deal of ability. The University of Notre Dame is flourishing finely, the attendance being 20 per cent, better than last year, and larger, in fact, than for several years past.”
—The Thespian Association of the Notre Dame University entertained their friends at Washington hall last evening in honor of the birthday of the Father of his Country in royal style. There was music, vocal and instrumental, an oration, a declamation, and the drama of King Henry IV. Considerable numbers were present from this city, in spite of the rain and mud, and altogether the large "hall was crowded to its utmost limit, about as usual on more favorable occasions. Among the Notre Dame dignitaries present were Very Rev. Father Granger, Provincial; Very Rev. Father Corby, President; and Rev. Father Walsh, Vice-President. Rev. Father Golovin, of Watertown, Wis., the former President of the University, was there, besides Prof. M. T. Corby, of Chicago, brother of the President; T. Nelson and E. Esmer and lady, of Chicago; Rev. T. Sullivan and Mr. J. Wile, of Laporte; Mr. Coghlan and lady, of Toledo; Hon. P. Gibbons and lady, of Keokuk, Iowa; Rev. M. Noll, of Elkhart; Rev. O. B. Oechtering, of Mishawaka, and others. The Entertainment began and concluded with music by the University cornet band, and the orchestral band furnished several intermediate pieces. An overture for “Figaro’’and another form “ Semiramis,” which were played, will give an idea of the character of the music presented. The bands showed good drill and in the main tasteful execution. The vocal honors devolved upon Prof. Corby. He is now of the Chicago Apollo Club, but was formerly for several years vocal teacher at Notre Dame. Being on a visit to the University, he complied with the general desire to hear his voice again and sang. The storm of applause which he received was well merited. High culture and fine natural powers have made the Professor a singer to whom it is a rare pleasure to listen. Mr. John G. Ewing delivered the oration on Washington. Mr. Ewing is the son of Judge Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio, and a nephew of Thomas Ewing, Representative in Congress. The scion of the old stock at Notre Dame bids fair to do no intellectual discredit to his progenitors. He talked on the well-worn theme of Washington with a grasp of his subject and consideration of his points seldom heard in one of his years. P. Hagan, of Duncannon, Ohio, gave a declamation entitled “ Benedict Arnold,” which was a very fair effort indeed. ’ The crowning feature of the evening, however, was the play of King Henry IV, which although somewhat shorn in order to make its production possible within reasonable hours, gave an excellent idea of the drama as written by Shakespeare, and furnished an entertainment of deep interest and pleasure to all. The costumes, which added not a little to the effectiveness of the production of the drama, were procured for the occasion from Chicago. The part of the king was played in a highly praiseworthy manner. The personation was dig-
428
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
nified, as befitting royalty, the delivery of the language was clear and without haste, and the whole deportment graceful and majestic. Falstaff created roars of laughter with his “ quips and quiddities,” and merry Prince Hal, Hotspur and others were prime favorites. Who among the delighted audience, we wonder, knew, or remembered if he knew, how large a share of their pleasure was owing to Prof. Lyons, the able and painstaking dramatic in structor and general prime-mover behind the scenes ? No doubt he asks no praise, and is content to see in the success which his pupils achieve that his labors are not in vain. The consideration, however, which is his just desert, is none the less large, and has its proper place in mention of this kind. The Entertainment was concluded shortly after 10 o’clock, President Corby addressing a few words of thanks to the audience, and Ex-President Colovin words at some greater length, expressing appreciation of the work of the students, before the curtain made its final descent.—South Bend Tribune.
—Washington’s Birthday, for more years than this writer’s memory runs back, has been a day for special observance at Notre Dame, of patriotic observance which might put to blush the pretensions of other colleges we know, claiming to teach the only real patriotism, and the only real religion. It is a day of yearly pilgrimage by a large number of our citizens, who have set it apart as a time when they are always sure of a rare intellectual and musical treat. Last evening was no exception to the rule. Overhead the night was cloudy, a slight rain was falling, and underfoot the mud was deep and the way forbidding, being the worst, according to Mons. Shickey, he has ever experienced between Notre Dame and the city. Yet the grand old Washington Hall, the scene of so many memorable occasions, was packed to overflowing, and a large proportion of the audience was ladies. We fancied that under more than one bright bonnet, or gay plume, that from behind more than one half-turned veil, bright eyes of fair misses looked tenderly down upon the gallant young actors with more than passing interest. The hall was splendidly prepared for the event, the trimmings of a former occasion having been renewed, the stage being decorated with fltgs, and in front of the stage was a stand of choice flowering plants, water-lilies, and others. The event was made all the more pleasant by the ever-welcome presence of Rev. Father Colovin, the late President of the College, but now pastor of the large church at Watertown, Wis., who had come once more to look upon “ his boys” and see how they acquitted themselves. Other visitors were present from abroad, some from Chicago, among them being Prof M. T. Corby, brother of Very Rev. Father Corby, President, now of Chicago, but once a professor of music at Notre Dame; E Esmer and lady, T. Nelson, all of Chicago; Rev. T. Sullivan and J. Wile, of Laporte; Mr. Coghlan and lady, of Toledo, Ohio; Rev. M. Noll, of Elkhart; Rev. A. B. Oechtering and sisters, of Mishawaka; Hon. P. Gibbon and lady, of Keokuk, Iowa; and Rev. Fathers Lauth and Czezewski, L. G. Tong, Esq., G. L. Elliott, and other prominent citizens of South Bend. The Entertainment opened with music by the Notre Dame band. John G. Ewing, a true scion of the Ohio Ewings, who is cut out for the law by nature, and politics by nature, supported by the very careful training from the “ Governor,” followed with the oration of the evening, a tribute to Washington, and description of the great results for human good that followed from his noble life. Young Ewing is a natural orator. His delivery is much beyond the average, and the subject matter of the oration evidenced much thought and ability. He was roundly applauded. Music followed, and then came the prologue to the tragedy of Henry IV, the play of the eveniug, by W. Ohlman, then more music, and then the play............The play was long but it
was very interesting. Prof. Lyons displayed even more than his usual tact in selecting the actors for the different characters. Henry the IV is a heavy play for amateurs to venture upon, but so carefully was it handled, so well sustained were all the leading parts, that it was really beyond criticism and possessed of a thrilling, unflagging interest from the beginning to the end. The King was quite kingly; Hal, Prince of Wales, was quite like a prince, and the hero of the evening; Hotspur was a real blood, a genuine scion of a noble race; brave, rash, and gallant to the
last. And then there was old Sir John—Jack Falstaff. He was immense. He was bound to be immense if it took all the pillows, sheets and towels in the college to accomplish a gigantic appearance, but it was not overdone. He was “ immense,” to use a stage phrase, in action, manner and speech, as well as in size. In fact he was a boss Falstaff. He delivered Falstaff’s soliloquy on “ honor” with fine elocutionary effect. Coming down to hard-pan, what is honor to a dead man? What is honor to a poor soldier who lost an arm and become diseased in his country’s service, and starves by slow degrees, while he sees a valiant home-guard, who served his country by getting Iris wife’s relations to go into the army, grow fat in his village postoffice on Government Pap. We took to old Jack Falstaff, particularly, and have a warm side for the other boys. The play closed with a magnificent tableau—all of the actors on the stage. J. P. McHugh delivered the epilogue. Between the second and third acts, P. Hagan delivered the “ Death of Arnold the Traitor,” with fine elocutionary effect, and between the fourth and fifth acts Prof. Corby sang that beautiful ballad, “ Good Bye at the Gate.” He was in fine voice and sung with much expression and feeling. He was roundly encored and responded with “ Then you’ll remember me.” The Entertainment closed with a few remarks appropriate to such a meeting from Rev. Father Colovin, the late President who was presented to the audience by Very Rev. Father Corby.—The Register man makes his acknowledgements to Rev. Father Zahm for attentions shown, and to Rev. Father Walsh, V. P-, for the little “ matinee” after the close of the Entertainment.— May the shadows of Notre Dame, and its able and genial corps of instructors, never grow less.—South Bend Register.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, W. Arnold, M. W. Bannon, T. Barrett, P.-J. Cooney, J. E. Cooney, J. J. Coleman, J. J. Carroll, A. Con-gar, W. L. Dechant, E. J. Davenport, A Dorion, C. K. De Vries, J. Deehan, J. G. Ewing, L. Evers, L. Eisenman, J. J. Fitzgerald, W. Farrer, J. Fuerstein, E. Gramling, 8. Gooley. A J. Garrett, J. Hertzog, E. Calkins, F. Hellman, P. Horn. P. J. Hagan, M. Hogan, J. J. Houck, J. F. Hoffman, F. S. Hoffman, A. J. Hettinger, O. J. Hamilton, P. J. Kinney, F. B. Keller, A Keenan, J. F. Krost, P. Kratzer, P. Krueper, J. J. Kotz, F. C. Luther, P. W. iVIattimore, W. J. Murphy, H. Murphy, H. C. Maguire. E. Maley, O. 8. Mitchell, V. McKinnon, J. P. McHugh, J. J. McEniry, M. McCue, P. F. McCullough, J. H. McConlogue, H. Nevins, T. F. O’Grady, W. O’Brien, C. O’Brien, R. Price, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, M. J. Regan, R. Routledge, O. Rettig, J. Rabbitt, E. W. Robinson, J. Rogers, J. Rice, T. 8. Summers, J. J. Shugrue, 8. T. Spalding, C. L. Stuckey, G. Sampson, J. 8. Smith, G. Walters, E. A. Walters, F. J. Walter, F. Williamson, E. M. Richardson.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Arentz, R. M. Anderson, J. G. Baker, F. W. Bloom, M. H. Bannon, A. J. Buerger, J. M. Byrne, J. B. Berteling, C. J. Brinkman, A. J. Bushey, W. M. Cox, J. F. Caner, W. D. Cannon, F. E. Carroll, C. E. Cavanagh, G. P. Cassidy, F. W. Cavanaugh, G. H. Cochrane, D. S. Coddington, G. H. Donnelly, E. Donnelly, R. French, J. A. Gibbons, H. A. Gramling, M. E. Herrick, G. L. It-teubach, R. E. Keenan, J. A. Lumley, J. A. Larkin, W. J. McCarthy, P. P. Nelson, G. J. Orr, 8. S. Perley, E. J. Pennington, W. Rietz, M. Rougban, K. L. Scanlan, J. Scanlan, A. Sievers, W. Stang, C. Van Mourick, E. S. Walter, F. Weisert, F. Pleins.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. Coolbaugh, J. Courtney. A. Hartrath, J. Inderrieden, W. McDevitt, R. Costello, C. McGrath, O. Farrelly, A. Coghlin, W. Coghlin, J. Seeger, Jos. Courtney, J. Boose, C. Garrick, A. Herzog, H. Snee, H. Kitz, E. Esmer, J. Barrett, J. Crowe, I. McGrath, J. McGrath, Jos. Inderrieden, C. Bushey, S. Bushey, T. O’Neill, J. Devine, W. Rheinhardt, P. Fitzgerald, F. Berry, F. Farrelly, C. Welty.
Class Honors. •
PREPARATORY COURSE.
W. Arnold, T. Barrett, B. Claggett, J. Cooney, J. Fitzgerald, E. Gramling, O. Hamilton, J. Kotz, J. McConlogue, J. Murphy, W. Ohlman, C. Mueller, M. Regan, J. Rogers, J. Smith, G. Walters, P. Horne, A Dorion, A. Congar, W. O’Brien, H. Nevins, E. McMahon, F. Williams, C. K. De Vries, J. Deehan,
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
429
A. J. Burger, F. Clarke, W. Cannon, H. Canoll, F. Carroll, C. J. Clarke, W. Doyle, W. Cox, G. Donnelly, R. French, J. Gibbons, H. Gramling, J. W. Guthrie, J. Herrick, G. Ittenbach, J. Itten-bach, H. Fenner, J. Kelly, J. Lawton, F. Lang, J. Larkin, J. McNellis, G. Orr, J. Perea, 8. Perley, K. Reynolds, A. Rietz, M. Roughan, Jas. K. Schoby, F. Singler, G. Sugg, W. Stang, C. Van Mourick, W. B. Walker, S. C. Welty, E. S. Walter, F. Weisert, R. P. Mayer, C. L. Hagan.
The name of F.C. Luther should have appeared on the list of Class Honors last week.
List of Excellence. .
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Reading and Orthography-----; Grammar—H. W. Nevans, W. O’Brien, C. A. McKinnon, W. D. Cannon, A Rietz, J. Arentz, C. E. Cavanagh, H. A. Gramling, G. Donnelly, J. A. Lumley, H. Newmark, F. Lang, J. McNellis; Arithmetic—C. F. Mueller, G. J. Orr, F. Lang, W. B. Walker, C. A. McKinnon, W. Stang, J. Murphy, F. Williams ; Geography and History-; Algebra —H. Newmark, A. J. Hettinger.
The following names should have appeared on the List of Excellence last week for Geography and History: E. W. Robinson, G. Orr, H. Newmark, J. Matthews.

—The “ Cecilians ” met on Saturday evening, and listened to an erudite and profound treatise from the Directress of Music. The subject was the “Promotive History of Music” with remarks on “Dance Music,” of great importance, and discouraging the affectation which can hear nothing but Beethoven, etc. Dance music has its choice composers as well as other music.
—On Sunday evening Miss N. Keenan read “Proclamation de Bonaparte d ses Soldatsp and Miss H. Russell read “ Adieu de Bonaparte d Fontainebleau. Miss M. Way read “ Die goldne Bruck, von E. Geibel." “ The Battle of Fonte-noy,” by Bartholomew Dowling, was read by Miss K. Lloyd, and “The Dying Soldier” (the author not given) was read by Miss Mary Sullivan.
—Instead of the usual public instruction on Christian Doctrine before Vespers on Sunday, Rev. Father L’Etour-neau, C. S. C., read an interesting account of the conversion of Alphonse Ratisbon, written on shipboard during his late voyage by Very R 'v. Father General, C. S. C. The vivid and beautiful picture drawn is one not soon to be obliterated from the hearts of the young and generous auditors.
—Last fall Mrs. M. S. Foote, of Burlington, Iowa, kindly sent to St. Luke’s Studio a quantity of hyacinth bulbs placed in appropriate bottles. They are now in full bloom, and are charming to behold. Members of the Studio tender anew their thanks for the gift, as they are reaping the opportunity of arresting the fleeting beauties ere they fade, to transfer them to panels, canvas, etc., as permanent treasures. These lovely hyacinths adorned the altar at Benediction when the Te Deum was sung on receipt of the news of the accession of Pope Leo Kill to the Pontifical Chair.
—Washington’s Birthday was celebrated in the StudyHall on Thursday evening. Rev. Father L’Etourneau, C. S. C., who had presented the translated drama of the “Two Crowns,” favored the young ladies with his presence. Rev. Father Shortis, C. S. C., was also, we are glad to say, so far recovered from the effects of bis late accident as to be present. He made some very fl ittering criticisms upon the entertainment. Rev. Father Soulnier, C. S. C., was also present, and many ladies, visitors at the Academy, were of the audience, among them Miss B. O’Neill, graduate of’71. An impromptu programme was given on Friday, which we insert after that of Thursday. Thanks to Miss H. Foote and Miss E. O’Connor for their beautiful contributions to the entertainment.
•v’The semi-annual election of officers in the various
literary societies of the Academy took place on Wednesday, the 20th. The results were as follows: St. Teresa’s Literary Society—Directress, Mother M. Annunziata; President, Miss Pauline Gaynor; Vice-President, Miss Mary Ewing; Secretary, Miss Elizabeth O’Neill; Treasurer,Miss Bridget Wilson. The election over, Miss Wilson read an essay on “Rhetoric,” and selections were also read from the Catholic World. The St. Catherine’s Literary Society—Directress, Sister Mary Angeline; President, Miss N. McGrath; VicePresident, Miss Z. Papin; Secretary, Miss M.Way; Treasurer, Miss N. Davis. Miss Strickland’s “Lives of the Queens of England ” was read, as were also some poetical selections. The St. Angela’s Literary Society—Directress, Sister Mary della Presentazione; President, Miss M. Ussel-man; Vice-President, Miss A. Geiser; Secretary, Miss A. McGrath; Treasurer, Miss E. Thomas. The book read at present is “The Ancient Inhabitants of Britain.”
RoH of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
Graduating Class—Misses B. Reynolds, P. Gaynor, L. O’Neill, J. Cooney, M. Spier, M. O’Connor, A. Harris, A. Henne-berry.
1st Senior Class—Misses C. Boyce, H. Russell, B. Wilson, E. Lange, M. Ewing, S. Moran, I. Fisk.
2d Senior Class—Misses N. McGrath, C. Silverthorne, M. Way,N. Keenan, A. Woodin, S. Hamilton, M. Danaher, Z. Papin, N. Davis, M. Luce, B. Thompson, N. King.
3d Senior Class—Misses J. Burgert, T. Pleins, M. Brown, E. Shaw, F. Cregier, M. Sullivan, M. Galen, A Gordon. A. Morgan, J. Winston, M. Halligan, L. Otto, E, Schwass, F. Brazelton, M. Winston, H. Buck, M. Wagner, C. Hackett, A. Brown, A. Thomas, G. Lloyd, B. Anderson, F. Kingfield, A. Ewing, A Kirchner.
1st Prep. Class—Misses M. Cleary, S. Rheinholdt, M. Ussel-man, B. Parrott, A McGrath, L. Chilton, A. Geiser, E. Mulligan.
2d Prep. Class—Misses E. Miller, E. Thomas, M. Mullen, E. Kelly, M. White, E. Wright, I. Richardson, J. Barnes.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses L. French, L. Fox, M. Hake, A.Mc-Kinnis, L. Wood, F. Sunderland, L. Van Namee, E. Hackett, M. Lyons.
1st Jr. Class—Misses J. Butts,E. Wooten, M. Cox, J. Sunderland, N. Lloyd, P. Felt, M. Ivers, B. and T. Haney.
LANGUAGES.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
1st Latin Class—Miss J. Cooney.
2d Latin Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, M. Plattenburg, M. Luce.
1st French Class—Misses N. McGrath, C. Silverthorne, H. Russell, B. Wilson, N. Keenan.
1st Drv.—Misses B. Reynolds, M. O’Connor, J. Cooney, J. Burgert, A. McGrath.
2d Class—Misses S. Moran, M. Ewing, A. Geiser.
3d Class—Misses L. Kirchner, M. Birch, M. Wagner, A Ewing. M. Winston, M. Casey, E. Shaw, M. Danaher, F. Kingfield, M. Cox.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses A. Kirchner, A. Geiser.
2d Div.—Misses M. Usselman, S. Rheinholdt.
2d Class—Misses L. O’Neill, A. Reising, A. Hennebery, K. Barrett. F. Cregier.
3d Class—Misses M. Way, S. Hamilton, E. Miller, C. Boyce, M. Lambin.
2d Div.—Misses N. King, A. Farrell, M. Loeber.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
Graduating Class—Misses B. Wilson and T. Pleins.
1st Class—iMisses C. Silverthorne, A Geiser, L. Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses M. Spier, A. Harris, L. O’Neill, N. Galen, N. Keenan.
2d Div.—Misses A. Gordon, F. Kingfield, M. Usselman, H. Buck, A. Henneberry.
3d Class—Misses L. New, J. Burgert.
2d Div.—Misses W. Dudley, A. Farrell, A. Kirchner, E. Foster, M. Brown, L. Walsh, E. Lange, A. McGrath, N. McGrath.
4th Class—Misses A. Reising, P. Gaynor, B. Anderson, A Maloney, K. Hackett.
2d Div.—Misses M. Winston, E. Richardson, M. Way, M. Mullen.
5th Class—Misses M. White, J. Winston, K. Reardon, M. Danaher, A. Wooten, F. Cregier, K. Barrett, L. Papin, E. Shaw, M. Wagner, A. Cavenor.
2d Div.—Misses B. Thompson, L. M. French, N. Hackett, L. Wood, C. Van Namee, M. Plattenburg, C. Boyce, A. Ewing, E. Miller.
6th Class—Misses I, Fisk, L. Fox, 8, Rheinholdt, L. Schwass,
430
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
A. Brown, M. Mulligan, Mt Ewing, M. Loeber, E. Thomas, M. Casey, A. Peak.
2d Div.—Misses B. Parrott, M. Birch, M. Hake, F. Brazelton, L. Chilton, E. Kelly.
7th Class—Misses A. McKinnis, J. Kingsbury, L. Ellis, S. Hamilton, M. Cox, A. Barnes.
8th Class—Misses M. McFadden, E. Wooten.
Organ—Miss W. Dudley.
Guitar—Miss B. Anderson. '
Harp—3d Class—Miss L. Chilton.
Harmony—Misses Wilson, T. Pleins, L. Kirchner, A. Geiser, C. Silverthorne.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class, 2d Drv.—Miss L. Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses A. Kirchner, M. Usselman.
3d Class—Misses D. Gordon, J. Winston, A. Brown, L. Otto, K. Hackett.
2d Drv.—Misses S. Rheinboldt, A. Geiser, E. Richardson. ■
4th Class—Misses M. Casey, A. Farrell, W. Dudley, A. Wooten, M. Winston, C. Silverthorne.
5th Class—Misses M. Mulligan, E. Galen, M. Hake, A. Ewing, M. White, M. Ewing, A. Peak, A. McGrath, L. Schwass, N. McGrath.
Chorus Singing—Misses B. Thompson, B. Parrott, J. Barnes, N. Hackett.
General Class—Misses J. Butts, L. Van Namee, L. Miller.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
1st Class—Miss E. Lange.
3d Class—Miss A. Kirchner.
4th Class—Misses M. Plattenburg, J. Burgert, A. Farrell, S. Hamilton, H. Buck, J. Butts, E. Thomas.
5th Class—Misses E. Miller, IL Way, L. Chilton, K. Riordan, L.- Otto, E. Mulligan, L. Schwass, H. Russell, L. French.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Miss L. Kirchner.
3d Class—Misses S. Moran, B. Reynolds, P. Gaynor, N. Davis, M. O’Connor. Promoted to this Class, Misses M. Spier, 8. Rheinboldt.
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses E. Lange, P. Gaynor, B. Reynolds. ’ 3d Class—Misses N. Davis, L. Kirchner, M. O’Connor.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ORNAMENTAL NEEDLE-WORK.
1st Class—Misses L. Neu, L. Schwass, M. Mullen, M. Usselman, J. Winston, M. Winston, S. Henneberry, M. Luce, N. McGrath.
2d Drv.—Misses D. Gordon, A. 'Morgan, B. Thompson, M. O’Connor, J. Kingsbury, M. Wagner, F. Sunderland, J. Sunderland.
2o Class—Misses F. Cregier, E. Miller, B. Parrott, L. Ellis, A. McGrath, K. Lloyd, M. White, L. Fox.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN PLAIN SEWING.
Misses HL Mullen, M. Hayes, E. Miller, J. Barnes, M. Sullivan, M. Loeber, E. Shaw, Z. Papin, A. Peak, N. Keenan, M. Birch, L. Kirchner, M. Halligan, M. Winston, J. Winston, C. Boyce, LFisk. .
PROGRAMME.
Washington’s Birthday, February 21, 1878..
Entrance March................................A. Geiser
THE TWO CROWNS.
Translated from the French. Prologue....................................E.	Mulligan
Scene 1st.
Mary.....................................'...A. Kirchner
Georgette Lanier............................D. Gordon
Josephine.....................................L, Chilton
Adelaide......................................L. Wood
Flora.........................................L. Otto
Gertrude......................................S. Moran
Scenes 2d and 3d. Catherine Lanier..............................B. Wilson
Scene 4th. Mother Vital..................................M. Way
Scene 5th. Madame Charlotte..............................C. Boyce
Scenes 6th, 7th, and 8th. Princess Louise.............................L. Kirchner
Rosette.......................................E. Wooten
Louise............................E. Mulligan
Marcelline....!...............................H. Ewing
Music—Chopin..................................B. Wilson
ORIGINAL PLAY.
THE GRADUATES, OR CONTRASTED EDUCATION.
Prologue......................................A. Harris
Act 1st—Scene 1st.
Mrs, Hawthorne.....................     ......	M. Ewing
Mrs. Danforth..............................B.	Reynolds
Mrs. Wadsworth...............................J. Cooney
Scene 2d.
Anna Wadsworth..........................A. Henneberry
Augusta Wadsworth..........................M.	O’Connor
Mollie Wadsworth.............................M. Spier
Eudore Lacon.................................P. Gajnor
Annette Danforth.............................H. Harris
Scene 3d.
Fannie Haskell...............................L. O’Neill
Song.........................................D. Gordon
Act 2d—Scenes 1st and 2d.
Marion Trent.................................N. McGrath
Duett—Mozart.........................A.	and L. Kirchner
Star-Spangled Banner.........................H. A. Foote
Programme—Feb. 22,1878.
Rory O’More..................................H. Buck
Thoft Thrains for an Introducthion...........P. Gaynor
Paul Revere’s Ride—H. W. Longfellow..........M. Ewing
An Equestrian Apostrophe...................A.	Cavenor
Difficulty in Extinguishing the Nocturnal Luminaries,
I
Jacob Strauss.. •...........................A.	Kirchner
The Silent Sell—A Melancholy Elegy....N. Davie, M. Spier
Alpine Song...........................L.	and A. Kirchner
A Gem from the Opera........................N.	McGrath
Little One’s Christmas Prayer.........................E.	Mulligan
Song........................................E.	O’Connor
Sleep of Mary—George H. Miles...............B.	Thompson
Song—Judith...........................................L.	Kirchner
Song—Nightingale......................................M.	O’Connor
Barbara Fritchie—J. G._Whittier...............N. McGrath
Benny (Recitation)............................A. Harris
Star-Spangled Banner, Solo....................H. Foote
Tablet of Honor.
For Neatness, Order, Amiability, and Correct Deportment. senior department.
Misses J. Cooney, A Henneberry, L. O’Neill, M. Spier, M. O’Connor, A. Reising, B. Reynolds, H. Russell, S. Moran, E. Lange, C. Boyce, C. Silverthorne, M. Way, N. Keenan, M. Casey, L. Kirchner, L. Keena, M. Luce, M. Danaher, N. King, Z. Papin, M. Maloney, C. Riordan, M. Halligan, L. Otto, M. Brown, M. Wagner, T. Pleins, M. Plattenburg, A, Brown, J. Burgert, F. Brazelton, M. Sullivan, M. Galen, A. Farrell, M. Foster, M. Winston, J. Winston, S. Rheinboldt, M. Usselman, M. Hayes, M. Cleary, B. Parrott, L. Neu, M. Loeber, E. Thomas, M. Mullen, E. Kelly, 100 par excellence. Misses I. Fisk, S. Hamilton, N. Davis, M. Birch, EL Hackett, A. Thomas, E. Walsh, K. Lloyd, E. Schwass, B. Anderson, E. Miller, J. Barnes, M. White.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Kirchner, F. Kingfield, A. McGrath, J. Kingsbury, L. Fox, M. Hake, A. McKinnis, L. Van Namee, M. Ivers, B. and T. Haney, 100 par excellence. Misses L. Chilton, A. Geiser, M. Lyons.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
' Notre Dame, Ind.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
431
Attorneys at Law.
BROWN <fc HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attomeys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER	MITCHELL IN. S. Mitchell, of ’72],
Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Ravenport, Iowa.
rpHOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of '621 Attorney at
1. Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Repositions.
FANNING & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of 74], Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Ill.
JOHN E. McIIUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE «fc DODGE [Chas. J.. Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney a* Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Reeds.
Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
MOAf R»IDJhl	IMCHuUAlB<D (Jas. E. McBride, of
’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty. Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the H. S. Office, 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
Il/ILLIA NI J. OHL A RK.E (of ’74) Attorney at Law, W Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JAMES A.. O’REILLY—of ’69.—Attorney at Law, 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN T>. McCORMICK—of’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Noy. 11, 18'7'7.
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles 	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		7 00 a.m 9 28 “ 10 45 “ 12 35 p.w 3 45 “ 6 45 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 “ 1 40 p.m 4 05 “ 6 30 “	3 45 p.m 6 20 “ 8 14 “ 10 00 “ 5 20 a.m	5 15 p.m 7 35 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	9 00 p m 11 15 “ 12 35 a m 2 17 “ 4 55 “ 8 CO “
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 15 p.m 3 11 “ 4 40 “ 6 55 “	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 40 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	4 00 a.m 6 10 “ 7 50 “ 10 30 “	9 50 p.m 12 45 a.n 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6 20 p m 9 40 “ 2 25 a m 12 38 “ 4 15 “ 6 45 “ '
Niles and Soxrtli Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p m. “ N. Dame— 8 52 ••	6 38 *• Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl.	Gen’l Manager. Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
O’M. PROCTOR [of’75] Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. STAGE [of’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
"Weekly Newspapers.
THE C ATHOLIC COETJNIBT AN. published weekly at Columbus, 0. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. ClARKf, of ’70.
TJH Hi AVE MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturdav at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, $2.5».
THE SOUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74) $1.50 per annum. '
Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
THE BOND HOUSE. A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Michigan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Book Binders:
EDWARD I*. FLYNN, Plain and Fancy Book-binder, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
0 pS CALLING CARDS—no two alike, with name Lit) neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
•	Mishawaka, Ind. * ••
0ps CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic Almanac for 1878. Address
••	'	'	’ J. A. Lyons, .
' Notre Dame, Ind.
The Naturalists' Agency has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects ol Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any Amer ican for “Collections of Minerals.”
My Mineralogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before copy, was struck off. Bjr means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the spec! es and th more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fractureh, araness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Owing to an increase in stock, it has become necessary to obtain a larger and more convenie: t location. This has been found at No. 1223 Belmont Avenue, about 2 squares from the Trans-Continental hotel.
Over 38 tons, and nearly $35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales wera over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections ate labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Dlustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Number of Specimens	25 inbox	50 inbox	100 inbox	100	200	300
Crystals and fragments	 Students’ size, larger	 Amateur's size, 2J4 in.xl^.... High School or Acad, size, 2^x3 College size, 3*4x6 in., shelf sp	$ 50 1 50 4in.sh< ecimens	$1 3 jlf spec 		$1 50 .6... 1 imens |	$ 1 5 10 25 500	$ 2 10 25 50 100	$ 3 25 50 100 3 00
Send for the. bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Felloio of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Scie-ences and of the American Museum of Natural Bistory, Central Park, New York.
43
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Sept. 24,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 35 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 05 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 pm; Cleveland 10 10 pm; Buffalo, 4 am.
7 16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo 6 52 a m.
9 13pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 240 a m; Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 1 05 p m.
4 38 and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 5 40 am.	’
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 am.
4 38 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5.30; Chicago, 7 40 p m.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 a m; Chicago 11 10 a. m.
8 45 and 9 35 am, Way Freight.
F. C. .Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Geirl Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
MANUFACTURER AND DEALER IH
AMATEUR TOOLS,
FOR
Amateurs, Boys and Girls.
Turning Lathes,	Scroll Saws,
Hand Saws,	Saw Blades,
Fancy Woods,	New and Handsome
SmaH Engine Castings,	designs for Brace-
Small Tools of all Kinds, lets, etc.
Also, Publisher of
The Amateur Mechanic,
A Monthly Journal of Practical Information for Amateurs, Boys and Girls. 50 Cents per Annum.
Said Stamp for sample Copy. Address '
SAMUEL HARRIS,
decstf 15 South Canal Street, Chicago, Ill.
SHICKEY,
PROPRIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maiy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
•	1	P. SHICKEY.
ON THE RECEIPT OF FIFTY CENTS,
-we will send, Postage Paid, to any address, a handsome Chromo of
“ His Holiness, Leo XIII,”
from an authentic Portrait loaned the publishers by his Grace, Archbishop Wood. Address,
CHROMO DEPARTMENT,
BUREAU 02s ENGRAVING,
mch2-2t 513 Pine Street, TMiiladeLpltia.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
. THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its •
QMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska,AVyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. It’s
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lae, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its	»
' FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points.via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one .passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road. .
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Marier?Luse&Co.
TYPE FOUNDERS, CHICAGO,
Have the largest and most complete Type Foundry in the West. All Type cast from vest quality of metal. Estimates furnished on application. Goods shipped promptly. Complete outfits supplied on short notice.
The Notre Dame Scholastic is printed from type manufactured by Marder, Luse & Co., and which has been in constant rise for over seven years.	Jan 5-3m