The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE pTUDENTS.
Disco quasi semper victUTiis; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume VIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE, 5,1875.	. Number 37.
JNO. HAGERTY,
City Judge.
L. G. TONG,
• Notary Public.
~p~AGERTY & TONG,
ATTORNEYS-AT-LAW,
REAL ESTATE’and INSURANCE AGENTS,
Agents for Steamship Lines.
.	COLLECTIONS SOLICITED.
9 Oddfellows’ Block, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
o24-ly
Before going elsewhere, go to
ES. PECKS,	.
.	Dealer m
HATS, CAPS, TRUNKS, Boys* Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., o24-tf	South Bend, Indiana.
J) J. HOLLAND, & Co., Wholesale Manufacturers of HAVANA AND DOMESTIC CIGARS, —ALSO—
WHOLESALE JOBBERS and GENERAL DEALERS IN SMOKERS' ARTICLES.
1OO MICHIGAN St., - SOUTH BEND IND., o24-tf.
£ E. CUMMINS,
DENTIST,
No. 90 Michigan Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
(Over Wyman’s.)	o24-3m
Do you want a drive ? Go to
JgEN COQUILLARD’S	.
LIVERY STJVBLES
Corner of Michigan and Jefferson Streets,
■	South Bend, Indiana.
o24-2m
THE
BOND HOUSE
Niles, ----- Michigan.
McKAY, Proprietor.
Free Hack to and from all trains, for guests of the house.
nov 2S-%tf.
NICAR & Co.,
* HARDWARE MERCHANTS, 118 MICHIGAN St., - - - SOUTH BEND, INDIANA' HEADQUARTERS FOB
Cutlery, Skates, Cartridges, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.
Desk-Locks, Padlocks, Japanned Boxes, etc., -	o24-tf
y” NICAR,
DEALER IN HARDWARE,
91 MICHIGAN St., - - SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
ALL SORTS OF
Cutlery, Yale Desk-Locks, Fishing-Tackle, Etc —ALSO—
Skates, Cartridges, Tin Trunks, Etc. o2Atf
J. STAGE,
* COUNTY SURVEYOR,
Is now prepared to execute work in the Departments o
Land Surveying, Grading, Hydraulics, etc. ^“Orders expeditiously attended to.^^	.
Office with M. Stover, Room S3, over Wills & Stems Washington St., South Bend, Indiana.
nov 28-% tf.
j^RS. C. S. STOVER,
MILLINER,
129 Michigan Street, South [Bend, Indiana.' toat.br in	■
Millinery Goods, Hats, 'Bonnets, Laces, &c.
^~Tha young ladies at St. Mary’s Academy will find it to their advantage to give her a call.	apllT
Q.EORGE HEHR,
FASHIONABLE TAILOR,
AND GENERAL DEADER IN	,
Cloths, Cassimeres and Vestings.
No. Ill MICHIGAN STBEET,	SOUTH BEND, IND.
.	(Up Staiis.)	%o24-tf
The Students’ Office! SSISTTaTT EI1TTAZE,-Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Cigars, Tobaccos, Pipes, etc.
No, 54 Waslilngtoii St.,
SOUTH BIEJSED, I3ST2D--	ap!24 -
546
THE SCHOLASTIC.
NATIONAL HOTEL
South Bend, Indiana
At the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railway Depot, opposite Studebakers’ Wagon Works.
FTTHOSE who patronize the National Hotel will find during their ± stay at South Bend all the comforts of home. Conveyances to and from the College and St. Mary’s can be procured at the Hotel.
S-AZNTTHEL EHUCHEL,
THE CLOTHIER,
Invites your attention to his Merchant Tailoring Establishment, No. 90 Michigan Street, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Only First Class Work Made Up
At Very Reasonable Prices.
Garments Warranted in all Respects.
. READY-MADE CLOTHINTG-
In Fine Selection, Very Cheap.
If Desired, Will Bring Samples and
Take Measures at the College,
We keep constantly on hand a full line of
GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS.
MACDONALD.
THE PHOTOGRAPHER,
Is still at his
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET.
T_i. E. TAA-TTZR,,
DEALER IN
BUZBY & GALLAGHER.
CLOTHIERS,
Merchant Tailors,
AND DEALERS IN
Gents’ Furnishing Goods,
Hats, Caps, Etc.,
109 nYEIOlTIG-JlTT STREET,.
SOUTH BEND, IND.
HAIR-CUTTING, SHAVING,
SHAMPOOING, ETC.
TLEINTRHr SPETH, Corner W’ashington and Nlicliigan Sts., [Under Coonley’s Drug Store] SOUTH BEND, INDIANA. my-22
CLOTHIHG BZOTTSE.
MEYER LIVINGSTON, CO Washington Street, [Three Doors West of Blum’s Cigar Store] south zBZEzrsrrx, ttsttdia-jsta..
^^“Keeps on hand a large stock of Hats, Caps, Clothing, and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. All the Students should give nim a Call.	a!7
A. KLINGrEL & SONS, 69 'Washington Street, SOUTH BHDSTT?, ITTJOULTSTA..
Keep constantly on hand a complete assortment of
MEN’S AND BOYS’ FINE BOOTS AND SHO.ES
OF THE Celebrated BURT, LILLY YOUNG PRATT and
Bracket & Boyden’’ Hand and Machine Sewed Goods.
THE
LARGEST STOCK IN THE CITY.
Give us a Call and See the Nobby Styles.
LADIES,	-
We would call your attention to our immense stock of PINE SHOES of all the standard makes.	a!7
AND SILVERWARE.
PRACTICAL WATCHMAKER, JEWELER AND ENGRAVER.
No. 105 Michigan St., Sontli Bend, Ind.
Chicago, Bock Island.and I’acitic U. R.
'Depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman sts. Ticket-office, Grand Pacific Hotel.
Trains.	leave.	arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and
Atchison Express,	10.13 a m	3.30 p m
Peru Accommodation,	5.00 p m	9.30 a m
Night Express,	10.30 p m	6.15 a m
The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE JnTEI\ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS.
Disee quasi semper victurus; vi5 e quasi eras moriturus.
Volume VIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE, 5, 1875.	Number 37.
Evening? Shadows.
BY FLO.
Softly, as the eve approaches, And the sun recedes from view,— When the day with lingering footsteps Follows in its pathway too,— When all Nature dons a mantle,
And prepares to greet the night— Come the hesitating shadows, Creeping forward in their fright.
Some recline upon the hillside, Others fall upon the plain ;
Whilst a number of the deepest
On the quiet lake remain :— Then again within the forests, Shadows deepen, thick and fast, Some remain in hollows buried— Others still go sweeping past.
Thus o’er village, town, and country, In the meadows, fields and hills, Everything the evening monarch With his sombre shadows fills.
Soft they come, and slowly deepen, Till in murky darkness grow, When the heavy veil of midnight Drops her folds on all below.
Alchemy and the Alchemists.
[conclusion.]
VTI.—Theory of the Unity of Matter.
But although we have many reasons for believing in the diversity of matter—that what are now called elements, are, when exposed to a sufficiently intense heat, or subjected to any of the other powerful forces of nature, ca-l pable of being resolved into still simpler forms of mat-j ter, and consequently that the number of these elementary [ bodies will be thereby increased (though should it be found that some of the elements, as above stated, are only modifications of the same substance, the number would be proportionally decreased), still there are also grounds for believing in the unity of matter, scarcely less substantial than those which favor its diversity. According to the theory of the unity of matter, all its various modifications now known to us were originally derived from one only primordial form of matter, or Urstoff as the Germans call it. The existence of this hypothetical Urstoff is rendered probable by recent astronomical investigations—and particularly by the surprising results of observations with the । spectroscope. The celebrated nebular hypothesis of Sir ! William Herschel assumes that all-’the heavenly bodies, the
stars with all their attendant planets, are the result of the condensation of a very attenuated, self-luminous, homogeneous form of matter,—a theory which, with certain limitations, accounts quite satisfactorily for the different degrees of density and incandescence exhibited by the stars, planets and nebulae. Now if this hypothesis has any foundation in fact, the spectroscope should show it; nebula of the same age and in a like state of condensation should give the same or at least very similar spectra. The same should also hold good for the planets and stars. Observation now leaves this no longer a matter of conjecture. Father Secchi, the illustrious Jesuit astronomer, has, after an extended series of spectroscopic observations, divided the stars into three classes—viz.: yellow, white, and what he calls colored stars. In the white stars, which are supposed to be the youngest and hottest, the spectrum consists of only a few lines, revealing the presence of only a small number of elements, hydrogen predominating. The yellow stars, which are older than the white, disclose spectra of the metals; whilst the spectra of the colored stars all give characteristic metallic lines, and exhibit certain channelled spaces which would seem to indicate the presence of compounds, the existence of which, at least some of the more staple, are rendered quite possible, owing to the comparatively low temperature of this class of stars. J. Norman Lockyer, who has made a special study of the sun, commenting on the above mentioned division of Father Secchi, and observing that the elements with the lowest atomic weights are found in the hottest stars, whilst the metals of higher atomic weights are found only in stars of lower temperature, asks himself the question: “Are not the first elements the result of a decomposition brought about by the extreme temperatures to which the latter are exposed; and taking them all together, are they not the product of the condensation of very light atoms of an unknown primordial matter which is perhaps ether?” The same conclusion, by different processes of reasoning, has been arrived at by other investigators, notably Dumas and Hinrichs, justly celebrated for their important contributions to science, but it would be too long to give their arguments in support of this view—a view which is at most a mere hypothesis—an hypothesis, however, which seems to gain ground as science advances.
The fact is, we know little or nothing of the ultimate constitution of matter, and continued observation only serves to show how much more we have to learn concerning things of which we imagined ourselves to possess a pretty accurate knowledge. Indeed, however much we may pride ourselves on our detailed knowledge of the properties of bodies, and the various affinities which they manifest for each other, the peculiar phenomena they exhibit under certain circumstances, how they are affected by the
548
THE SCHOLASTIC.
different manifestations of force, heat, magnetism, light, and electricity, we are but little if any farther advanced in our theories of matter than were the Greeks of more than two thousand years ago. The atomic theory, of which so much is now made, was taught in the schools of Greece and Rome in almost the same words as are found in explanation of it in the latest text-books of modem chemistry. The theory, likewise, of one primordial element was taught not only by the philosophers of antiquity, but also, as we have seen above, by some of the alchemists. The views of the latter concerning the making of gold by analysis or transmutation, instead of being rejected as absurd, as they were not long since, are now being reconsidered, and although it may be practically impossible to realize what the alchemists so long endeavored to effect, still it cannot be proved by any observation of modem science that they were theoretically wrong. Accept the theory of many elements: gold-making, as we have shown above, is possible by analysis. Adopt the theory of one element, and the possibility of transmutation follows as a natural consequence.
But I must close, for I fear I have already sufficiently tried your patience to make you desire to hear the end. However, before concluding, permit me to make one more remark. You have doubtless already observed that the Greeks and alchemists, in their various theories of the constitution of matter, endeavored to find unity in multiplicity,—a thing natural to man,—and to bring all the multifarious, and seemingly contradictory, phenomena of which matter is the subject, under the action of a few, simple, unchangeable laws. But this view with them never amounted to more than plausible hypothesis, for they had no means of experimentally demonstrating its truth. Modern science, however, has the honor of proving its correctness. The various “forces”—heat, light, electricity, magnetism, etc., formerly considered entirely distinct, are found to be only different “ modes of motion,” and mutually interchangeable. It is even probable that all the phenomena of inorganic matter can be explained by the one simple law of “attraction” or “affinity,” to which the different forces above mentioned are ultimately reducible. The same law which governs the smallest atom directs the worlds and systems of worlds which make up the universe. Metamorphoses the most extraordinary are observed in the simplest elements; changes in compounds never imagined a few years ago are now effected in the laboratory of the chemist; and what is still more marvellous, all these protean changes, more complex and more varied than alchemist ever dreamed, are brought about in accordance with a few certain fixed laws,—laws which regulate the formation of the minutest crystal as well as the movements of those giant orbs which play with unalterable precision through the realms of space. Truly nothing could give us a more exalted idea of the simplicity, unity and power of the Creator than the consideration of those simple laws by which He rules the whole of inanimate nature with such order and harmony; and in which He gives us a glimpse of those infinite perfections, of which He has promised us, if obedient to His precepts in this life, an eternity of enjoyment in the life to come.
—A party of Sioux Indians stole a patent ice-cream freezer, supposing it to be a hand organ, and their “ big medicine man” turned the crank a week before he would confess his inability to get music out of it.
Manufacture .and Composition of Gunpowder.
It seems indeed almost an imposition to invite the attention of the intelligent readers of the Scholastic to the perusal of an article on so commonplace a subject as gunpowder. Yet, as in this subject we have so stricking an example of the mighty effect which often results from the simplest and most insignificant causes, we may be pardoned for entertaining the idea that an essay worthy of perusal might be written on this simple but well-known compound; a tiny seed might here be sown, which in the fertile brain of some of our intelligent readers may yet spring up, and form an insurmountable barrier to protect the world from the fierce ravages made on human life by this mighty engine of death, as it pursues its endless course from nation to nation, and state to state, rendering sad and desolate by its baneful and fiery breath so many peaceful homes, acting as a medium by which the vigilant demon of Hell decoys into his dark dungeon thousands of brave, ambitious souls.
Yet to place so grand a design in a favorable and attractive light, would need a more artistic pen than mine. Hence, in the present short sketch, I will confine myself to a few of the more interesting features in its composition and manufacture.
As you are well aware, an almost fabulous antiquity has been ascribed to the invention of gunpowder. Its composition and character seem to have been known to the Hindoos even as early as the time of Moses. Yet its preparation as it now exists is popularly ascribed to Schwartz, a German monk and alchemist of the 14th century, who speaks of it as a substance already in existence, used for the amusement of children. He gives the following receipt for its manufacture: “ But yet take of saltpetre with pounded charcoal and sulphur, and thus you will make thunder and lightning, if you know how to prepare them.”
Roger Bacon is also credited by some with its invention, as he described it in his writings about 1270.
When Schwartz, the holy old monk, first mingled together the simple elements, sulphur, saltpetre and charcoal, forming gunpowder, could he have been conscious of the mighty power he was placing in the hands of men to be used by them as an instrument to destroy their fellowbeings, an instrument which was to seal the death-warrant of so many thousands, yes, millions, of his fellow-men, would he not have hesitated before making known to the world his magic dicovery? Yet why? Though it may seem strange, it is a well authenticated fact that there is as much gunpowder consumed in time of peace as there is in time of war. It is for mining, engineering, quarrying, and for industrial purposes generally, that gunpowder is chiefly used; and as strife and peaceful industry cannot exist together, a war, on the whole, tends to lessen rather than increase the consumption of explosive substances. Strange to say, during the time of the late Rebellion the import of gunpowder was much less than at other times. The same fact was noticed in France during the time of the Crimean war. Thus we see evil does not result directly from the use of gunpowder, but from the malice and ambition of its employers, and hence it deserves rather to be looked upon as one of the most useful inventions for the promotion of scientific and mechanical labor.
The amount of saltpetre, charcoal and sulphur used in the manufacture of gunpowder is different for different
THE SCHOLASTIC.
549
Countries. Generally, each Government adopts a particular ’ receipt, stating the amount of each constituent which is to enter into the composition of the powder manufactured for its own use. Private establishments produce different mixtures, according to the purposes for which their powder is required. The mixture adopted by the Governments of the United States, France and Prussia, is: saltpetre 75 parts, sulphur and charcoal 12^ parts each, in one hundred. All powder manufactured for the English Government consists of 75 parts of saltpetre, 10 of charcoal and 15 of sulphur.
. Of the three materials of which gunpowder consists, only charcoal and saltpetre are, strictly speaking, essential; for from them the gas is actually generated, and a mixture of them, when ignited, will explode. Yet the explosion from this mixture is comparatively feeble. The addition of sulphur greatly facilitates the combustion, since it ignites at a much lower temperature than either of the other elements, and therefore greatly accelerates both the decomposition of the saltpetre and the generation of the gas, by combining with the potassium of the saltpetre and liberating the oxygen. Also by heating the nitrogen and carbonic acid, their volume is considerably increased, and consequently their explosive power.
The sulphur and saltpetre used in making gunpowder are thoroughly purified by a process of distillation. The charcoal is made either from alder or willow wood for common powder, and from black dogwood for fine rifle powder; this wood is used on account of the fineness of its grain. The wood is allowed to season many years before charring. It is then sawed into short lengths, packed into iron cylinders, called “slips,” which are placed on a small carriage, and run into a retort much like those used in gasworks. Here it is allowed to remain from two and a half to three hours. The gas issuing from the wood is consumed by the fire; and the superintendent of the work is able to tell when the wood is thoroughly charred, by the tinge imparted to the flame by the burning gas. After the wood has been thoroughly charred, it is withdrawn from the fire, and ground in an immense mill. It is then sifted, when it is ready for use. The various ingredients being thus prepared, a charge of 50 pounds of the mixed constituents is poured into a “ churn,” which is made to revolve until the ingredients are thoroughly mixed. It is then known as a “green charge,” and is ready for the process of incorporation, by which the ingredients are so intimately mixed as to form an entirely new and highly ex plosive substance. Fifty pounds of the green charge is placed in a large cylindrical vat and rubbed together by large, heavy stone runners. It is subjected to this process for from three to five hours, according to the fineness of the powder to be manufactured. This is the part of the work which is attended with the most danger, and the bauds are forbidden to remain in the mill while at work. When incorporated, the gunpowder is in the form of a soft cake. It is then pressed in layers between plates of copper or gun-metal, by a hydraulic press, to increase its hardness and density, and then made into grains of the required form, by machinery. The question of the density given to gunpowder by pressure, and its effect, is one which is now receiving much attention. It has been found that the greater the density the slower the combustion, therefore making the strain more gradual on the gun; and this point is of particular importance in the case of heavy cannon. Much of the powder now used in heavy guns is
formed in little cubes, with sides about four-fifths of an. inch square; these pebbles are formed by passing press-cake of that thickness between two pairs of rollers, with sharp* cutting edges. After the powder has been formed into grains or pebbles, it is then taken to the dry-house and placed in thin layers, in copper or wooden trays, which are supported on racks. The dried grains are finished by being placed in a revolving barrel (called a glazing barrel) with a certain amount of powdered black-lead, with which the grains become coated; this serves to make them bum more slowly. Such is briefly the principal part of the process of manufacturing this wonderful explosive compound; which is at the same time one of the greatest curses and blessings to mankind.	Bloomfield.
The Feast of Ou? Lady of the Sacred Heart
AT ST. MARY’S ACADEMY, NOTRE DAME, IND.
Editor Scholastic Dear Sir,—The evening of the 31st of May witnessed the celebration by the Sisters and their pupils at St. Mary’s Academy, of the annual festival in honor of our Blessed Mother, in her double character of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart and Queen of May. To the writer, who had never before assisted at this lovely May festival at St. Mary’s, it presented a scene of genuine enchantment. The vast buildings of the Academy, the Convent and the Novitiate, illuminated in every window from the basement to the fifth story; the extensive grounds, whose winding paths were outlined by the lights disposed at regular intervals in the grass on each side; the numerous highly decorated shrines, in each of which a statue of the lovely Queen of the festival stood surrounded by lights and flowers and waving draperies of snowy lace, combined to form a dazzling and fairylike scene. But the most impressive and beautiful feature in the festival celebration was the procession formed by the Sisters and pupils of St. Mary’s, as with lights, banners and music it wound its way through the illuminated paths of the garden and park, stopping at every shrine to chant hymns of praise to their heavenly protectress. The inmates of St. Mary’s assembled first in front of the beautiful little chapel of Our Lady of Loreto, in the rear of the Academy buildings. Here a temporary altar had been erected, and most tastefully decorated, and before it they formed in half circles; the young ladies in the inner circles, the Sisters without, all holding lighted candles.
After singing the Litany of Loreto, they listened with, deep interest to a brief address from the Very Rev. Father General, who took for his theme the subject dearest to the hearts of all present—the graces and glories of Mary, and the duty of an early consecration of the heart to her service, and to the imitation of her perfections; especially of the virgin heart of youthful womanhood. As I beheld that scene; as I listened to those words of paternal counsel, and gazed upon those innocent, upturned faces—those youthful, virgin forms—so faithfully guarded and sheltered from evil, so gently guided towards all goodness; and then remembered what the world without is to-day; what the flood of corruption that threatens to overwhelm all virtue, all sanctity; I blessed God from my heart that the Church of Christ provides such sure asylums as this for youth.
After leaving Loreto, the procession next visited the shrine of Our Lady of Peace, passing by, as it went, the two beautiful little shrines erected in front of the Noviti
550
THE SCHOLASTIC.
ate; one raised in honor of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, the other adorned by a lifelike statue of Blessed Margaret Mary Alacoque. These two shrines were, though small, among the most beautiful—if not indeed the most beautiful—of all. There were in all eight shrines erected, which were disposed as follows. Besides the chief one in front of the Chapel of Loreto, and the two already men’ tioned at the Novitiate, there was one in the Grotto of Our Lady of Peace, one in the arbor of the Holy Angels, one in the arbor of the Holy Trinity; one before the statue of St. Joseph, and one directly in front of the main Academy building, erected in honor of Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception. Before each of these the procession halted, to offer prayers and sing some lovely canticle of praise in honor of our Queen. Last of all they proceeded to the Academy chapel, where, after crowning the statue of Our Lady with a beautiful floral crown, they received the Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament and were dismissed to their innocent and peaceful rest, secure under the protecting care of her whom they had loved to honor.
The procession was formed in the following order. First the young ladies of the Academy, Seniors, Juniors and Minims, preceded by a few Sisters; next the Children of Mary, bearing banners and lights, in the midst of whom walked the young lady who was honored by being the bearer of the crown for the Blessed Virgin; then came the Sisters of the Holy Cross; postulants in advance, followed by the novices and professed in regular order; and lastly our honored Father General, and Rev. Father Vagnier. As the procession wound along through the woodland paths, and the clear, fresh, young voices swelled in adoring chorus of praise, it could but remind the pious hearts of the children of Jerusalem who met our dear Lord as He entered that Deicidal city, and by their chorus of Hosannas made that entry a triumph inspite of the wicked rulers and the cruel Jews. And although we would fain hope that our world of to-day—especially in this favored country—is not quite so completely given over to reprobation and despair as were the murderers of Our Saviour, yet they surely take slight pains to honor Him. How many blessings upon our country and our people have the fervent prayers and oblations offered up in every convent, every Catholic school, church—and, I trust, family— throughout the land on this thirty-first day of May obtained from Heaven! The day will come, and some of these children may live to see it, when the feast of the Immaculate Conception—the patronal Feast of the United States—will be a national holyday, and an entire and united people will delight to honor her whom God has delighted to honor.	M. J. C.
Carelessness.
This is a habit into which a great many fall. Students particularly are apt to become careless in the discharge of their duties. Why is this? They surely know that time employed carelessly is lost, and that lost moments can never be regained. They know if they bring duties carelessly written to a Professor he will consider the writers of them ignorant students and mark their notes accordingly. They know that if they are inattentive in class they will learn nothing. They are aware of all this, and yet persist in being careless. The reason for this is quite evr
dent. The student passes away a great many hours determining to begin on the morrow and do better. He hurries over his duties and studies, saying to himself that he doesn’t feel in the humor for studying, and that he will begin after the next “rec.” day and study hard. All these excusesare very good, that is, for himself, but not so good for others. The student must learn to acknowledge the stern xact that he is never in the humor for studying. He must often study against bis will. How do we distinguish the careful student? By his punctuality, his good deportment, his neatness in dress, his precision in attention to his duties, and by a general air of scholarship which he carries with him. He is never late in coming to class; when there, he knows his lessons, recites them well, hands in a neat and well-written duty, and is ready at all times to answer questions relative to his lessons.
The careless student we find entirely different. It matters not to him whether he prepares his lessons or not: he glances over them, and then throws his books aside. Reclining in a languid posture, he either allows his mind to be distracted from his lessons, or fixes it upon some novel, and thus passes away the time. He is indolent and inattentive, and the consequence is that at the end of the year he finds he has learned nothing.
The careful student, on the other hand, receives the honor due to his exertions. He feels satisfied, and knows that others are likewise satisfied with him.
• Thus we see that carelessness should be avoided. There is an idea prevalent among a certain class of society that carelessness makes a person fashionable. Thus we see young men with their neckties arranged carelessly, their hats placed on one side of their heads, carelessly swaggering along the streets, thinking they are indeed the very personification of style;—but it is a known fact that he who appears the most careless in this respect is the one who stands longest before the mirror, in order to produce this careless, and, to him, stylish appearance.
Thus we perceive the evil of carelessness, and we should endeavor to profit by the knowledge. In our daily habits, in our studies, choice of vocation, and in all things, we should be careful, and in the end we shall be the gainers thereby.	H. H. H.
Literature.
—A work is announced on the theory and practice of journalism.
—M. Michel Levy, the well-known Parisian publisher, died on the 5th of May last.
—The volumes lately published by Gen’l Sherman have had an enormous sale.
—The Count de Montalembert’s unpublished work, entitled “Les Papes Moines,” will appear next October.
—Victor Hugo is about to spend a fortnight in Germany for the purpose of completing a volume of poetry, entitled “ Les Francs et les Germains."
—A French translation, in verse, of Goethe’s “ Faust ” is about to appear from the pen of M. Marc-Monnier, the witty author of the “ Theatre des Marionettes.
—A new work by Professor Ferrier is in preparation. It will be entitled “ Functions of the Brain Experimentally Investigated,” and will be published by Messrs. Smith, Elder & Co.
—A new novel by Christian Reid, entitled “ A Question of Honor,” will soon appear from the press of D. Appleton & Co. The same house will reprint “ The Italians ” by Mrs. Elliot.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
551
~ —“The Unseen Universe; or Physical Speculations on Immortality,” is the joint production of Prof. Guthrie Tait of Edinburgh, and Prof. Balfour Stewart, of Owens’ College, Manchester.
—Mr. Tennyson has at last sent to the press the drama which he has had so long on hand. It is entitled “ Queen Mary; a Drama;” and embraces the life of Mary Tudor, from her accession to her death, together with the chief scenes in her reign.
, —One of the colossal works the next generation will probably see is Mr. Thiers’ “ Memoirs ” which he is bringing down to the present time with wonderful activity. Sixteen has been mentioned as the number of volumes necessary to tell his life.
—Judge C. R. Brown, of Kalamazoo, Michigan, is now having engraved a very interesting map of the Old Northwest Territory, showing the locations of the old forts, trading-posts, missions, and other points of historic interest, giving dates and other particulars concerning their establishment. This map will be furnished, by addressing the publisher, for fifty cents.
—The Prince of Wales’ visit to India is likely to create a stir in the world of journalism. It is rumored that four well-known members of the Press will accompany the Prince along his whole route through the East: that Dr. Russell will represent the Times, Mr. Forbes the Daily News, Mr. Henty the Standard, and not Mr. Sala, but Mr. Edwin Arnold, the Daily Telegraph,.
—A reprint of Allan Ramsay’s “ Gentle Shepherd,” to which a glossary will, for the first time, be added, containing references to the passages to which the words occur, the Messrs. John Ross and Go., of Edinburgh, will shortly publish. A new memoir, prepared with some care, will be added, and a discussion of the scene of the classic pastoral. The text will be a reprint of that of the subscription edition of 1728.
—A memoir of William Smith, the author of “Thorndale,” by his widow, we mentioned some time ago as having been privately printed and a few copies distributed among friends. We are glad to hear that in compliance with a wish generally expressed, the volume will shortly be given to the public, accompanied with selections from some unpublished writings. Messrs. Blackwood Sons will publish the volume.
—The Manhattan and De la Salle Monthly for June contains : I, Heroism; II, Ballooning in France; HI, Sleep and Brain-Work; IV, The First Violet (Poetry); V, The Battle of Bunker Hill; VI, Never Too Old to Study; VH, Monte Cassino; VIII, Famous Memories of the Month; IX, Salt Lake Gradually Enlarging; X, Legend of Mu-cross Abbey (Poetry); XI, The Coming Home, A Tale ; XII, Disappointment; XIII, The American Cardinal; XIV, Sorrow Outlived; XV, A Glimpse of the Genesee Falls; XVI, Decoration Day; XVH, Miscellany; XVIH, Current Publications. Mr. Savage continues to add interest to the pages of the Manhattan. It is a most entertaining magazine, and we wish the editor and proprietors every success.
—The “Encyclopaedia Brittanica’s” second volume is nearly ready. It appears that, as the work advances, the mere revision of a large proportion of the articles of the last edition is found to be altogether insufficient, and not less than fonr-fifths, it is said, of the matter of the second volume is, therefore, entirely new. The more important geographical articles it contains are: Asia, by General Strachey; Asia Minor, by Mr. E. H. Bunbury; Arabia, by Mr. W. G. Palgrave; Assam, etc., by Dr. W. W. Hunter; Andaman Islands, by Cole. Yule; and Argentine Republic, by Mr. F. Parish. Prof. Max Muller contributes the article Aryan; Dr. E. B. Tylor, Anthopology; Prof. Daniel Wilson, Archaeology (Pre-historic); Mr. A. S. Murray, Classical Archaeology, and a variety of classical articles besides. Prof. Huxley furnishes a zoological classification, under the heading Animal Kingdom; while Anthopoda is supplied by Prof. Young, of Glasgow; Arachnida, by the Rev. O. P. Cambridge; Annelida, by Dr. W. C. M’lntosh; and Ape, by Prof. Mivart. The lengthiest article in the volume, exceeding ninety pages, is Architecture, by Prof.
Hayter Lewis and Mr. G. Edmund Street, the latter treating of pointed architecture and of the application of color. Mr. W. Wallace (of Merton College, Oxford,) writes on Arabian Philosophy; and Prof. Groom Robertson' on Mental Association. The number of contributions of a theological or ecclesiastical type is considerable, including Apocalyptic Literature and Antichrist, by Dr. S. Davidson; Angel, Apostle, etc., by Prof. Robertson Smith; Apologetics, by Dr. T. M. Lindsay; Apostolic Fathers, by Dr. James Donaldson; Archbishop, etc., by Sir Travers Twiss. Of other articles we may note (following alphabetical order) Annuities, by Mr. T. B. Sprague; Aristophanes, by Mr. R. C. Jebb; Army, by Col. Pomeroy Coley: Art, by Prof. Sidney Colvin; Astronomy, by Mr. R. A- Proctor; and Athanasius, etc., by Principal Tulloch. The third volume, which is being diligently proceeded with, opens with Athens, by the Rev. E. L. Hicks; and will contain, among numerous other articles of importance, Atlantic, by Dr. W. B. Carpenter; Atom, by Prof. Clerk Maxwell; Attica, by the Rev. H. F. Tozer; Augustus, by Dean Mer-ivale; Babylonia, by Mr. A. H. Sayce; Banking, by Mr. L. H. Courtney; Bible, by Prof. Robertson Smith; Biology, by Prof, Huxley; and Birds, by Profs. Newton and Parker.—Athenaeum.
Adhemar de Belcastel ; or, Be Not Hasty ix Judgiwg. Translated from the French by P. S. A., Graduate of St. Joseph’s, Emmitsburg. New York: The Catholic Publication Society, No. 9 Warren Street. 1875. pp. 314.
The above is the title-page of an elegantly bound volume sent to us by the Catholic Publication Society. The story is simply and charmingly told by the author, and the translation has been well rendered by P. S. A. It is a matter of importance that good books be furnished our young people to read, and books of this nature answer the need. Good moral tales are as necessary for young men as works of any other nature. If Catholic tales are not given to them, they will read novels which will in nowise aid in improving their morality. We can recommend teachers giving premiums to students to purchase Adhemar de Belcastel. It will make an excellent prize, as we know that every young person receiving a copy will be more than delighted with the charming story. 1
The Child : By Monseigneur Dupanloup, Bishop of Orleans. Translated with the author’s permission by Kate Anderson. Boston: Patrick Donahoe, 23,25 and 27 Boylston St. 1875. pp. 294.
The education of children is a matter full of concern to all parents. A knowledge of their dispositions, their natures, likes and dislikes, is what everyone having charge of them should make his special study. Having attained this knowledge, it is then their duty to make use of it in training up the child in the paths of virtue and religion. How. to put this knowledge to good use is eloquently told by the great Bishop of Orleans. The style of the book could not be otherwise than pleasing and entertaining, coming as it does from such hands. The translator has done her work faithfully and conscientiously, and has given a faithful rendering of the words of the great Bishop. We recommend the work not only to parents, but to clergymen, teachers, and all having aught to do with the training of youth. Mr. Donahoe has issued the book in a beautiful manner. It would make a good book for premiums.
—The pectoral cross that was given to Cardinal McCloskey last week was presented to Archbishop Hughes by the late Queen Louise of Belgium. This cross, the personal property of the Archbishop, he bequeathed to his sister, the late Mother Angela, at the time Superior General of the Sisters of Charity, and by her death it came into the possession of the community of Mount St. Vincent. When Dr. McCloskey succeeded Archbishop Hughes it had been the wish of Mother Angela and the Sisterhood to give him. the cross. But by the advice of Vicar-General Starrs the presentation was deferred to some future occasion. And now Providence has so ordained that the gift of the sainted daughter of Louis Philippe to the prelate who stood in the eyes of the Old World and the new as the most illustrious representative of the American Church shall rest on the gentle and fatherly heart of our first American Cardinal
$52
r THE SCHOLASTIC.
The
Published every Week during Term Time at NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana.
.	TERMS:
Oneyear...............................$1 00
Single copies (6 cts.) can be obtained at the Students' Office.
The Scbolastic.for the 2nd Session.
The subscription price of the Scholastic for the 2nd session of 6 months is fifty cents ; besides which all new subscribers are requested to send ten cents for postage, making in all sixty cents.
Address: Editor of the Scholastic, Notre Pause P, O-, Ind.
—At the close of the scholastic year, when Commencement Day is over, and honors and prizes have been awarded, it is not uncommon to have complaints from some young gentlemen who feel themselves wronged in the fact that they receive no honors whatsoever. There never has lived any man in any college who has not heard such complaints. Not unfrequently do we hear some Air. A., when the honors have been distributed, with some show of wonder say: “Why should B. get a first honor, and I not so much as a second ? He received as many notes as I did, and I think that I am as deserving of a first honor as he is.” It may be that A. is never known to misbehave in studyhall, dormitory or recreation,—that is, misbehave by acts which cause confusion and trouble, and these deserve notes and punishment. But he has never been known to speak a good word for anyone. He is one of those persons who have nothing but a sneer on his lips for everybody. He is one of those grumbling, fault-finding persons who are never satisfied with any person or anything. Speak to him of his teachers or prefects, and he will charge them with being partial. Speak to him of his companions in the yard, and he has good words for very few of them. He is lacking in true charity and common politeness, although he feigns politeness when in the presence of any member of the Faculty. He is a grumbler, who by his talk, while prefects are away, does more harm among the students in the yard than the disorderly conduct of some who are given to dissipation and levity of conduct. He thinks he is not known, because he would conceal what he says from prefects and teachers, and be heard by students alone. But he id known, among all under whose charge he comes, in his true colors. Do you suppose that the persons who know that A. has by his uncharitable remarks caused bad feelings to be spread among other students—that he has sinned against common politeness in his remarks concerning teachers, students, and all—should or could in conscience award him a gold medal for good conduct? Has not his conduct been the reverse of good; has it not been really bad ? And A. is the person who will grumble because he has received no honors, while B. has. Yet the conduct of B. is quite the opposite. He is never known to utter an uncharitable word against professor, tutor, prefect or student. It is true that he has received as many notes as A.; but the members of the Faculty are willing at the close of the year to forgive his acts of frailty when they consider his many good qualities, especially his politeness, which is the first thing required in anyone who receives a first honor. They are willing to overlook his little acts occasioned by thoughtlessness,
when they know that there is nothing malicious in him and that his conduct as a rule through the year has been excellent.
Again, it is sometimes remarked by those whose conduct is such as to prevent their receiving a first honor: "It would be no use for me to try for a first honor I I could not be a wooden man like those first-honor boys.” Now no person desires them to make wooden men of themselves. It is the earnest desire of the members of the Faculty to see all join in the sports and games; and as a general thing some of the very best boys take the lead in the outdoor sports. If you will glance over the roll of honor each week you will find that those whose names figure in it are those who do take exercise in the field or on the lake. Honors are not given for proficiency in the games of the yard, but the games are no bar to a person’s receiving an honor. A good baseball-player knows very well that'base-ball does not stand in his way. A good oarsman knows that a row over the lake does not keep his honors away from him. And, at the same time, those who are of a more quiet disposition and do not play baseball, but enjoy a quiet walk, know that their promenade will not cause them to lose their honor. It is not play during the time for recrea-ion which deprives students of honors ; it is want of politeness, of application, and of good will; it is neglect of studies, and a failure to observe the rules of the house. These are the things which bar those guilty of them from receiving honors. Enjoyment in the yards can be had to one’s heart’s content and yet no rule be broken, nor conduct displayed contrary to that of a gentleman.
If any person, when Commencement Day comes, finds himself without honors, he will know to whom to attribute it. He will know that it is owing to his own bad conduct or to the ill use he has made of his tongue.
Musical Notes.
—Nillson is coming back in October, 187G.	f
—Ole Bull, the renowned violinist, celebrated his G5th birthday on the 5th of February, at Bergen, Norway.
—There are 55G pupils in the Conservatory at Stuttgart. &9 are Americans, 10 are Russians, 1 Hollander, 1 French, 1 Turk and 1 African.
—At the little Bijou, Robinson Hall, New York, an . English version of Lecocq’s popular opera Girofle-Girofla is being played with much dot.
—The new American tenor, Mr. F. C. Packard, picked up by Carl Rosa at some insignificant Italian theatre, has made quite a hit in England.
—The preparations for the celebration at Rouen of the centennary of the famous composer, Boieldieu, are assuming large proportions, and the festival promises to be one j of the most generally interesting ever held in a French . cathedral town.
—Herr Von Bulow, it now appears, will positively visit America in the fall. Mr. H. D. Palmer, who returned last Wednesday in the Baltic, brings with him the contract signed between Herr Von Bulow, Mr. Ullman, and himself. It is not yet decided which piano the eminent performer will use.
—Robert Schumann’s monument was unveiled in Leipsic on the Sth of April. It is erected in the public gardens, close to the Burgher School, and consists of an obelisk of polished grey syenite in which is inserted a bronze medallion portrait of the composer with the simple inscription “ R. Schumann.”
—The New York Herald says: “Gilmore is hard at work turning the Hippodrome into a summer-garden, and it is promised that it will be, when completed, one of the
THE SCHOLASTIC.’
553
most magnificent in the world. Concerts will be given nightly by Gilmore’s band of 100 performers, and, to add to the attraction, eminent European soloists, never before heard in America, will be introduced to the public.”
—The Academy, in criticising the great violinist Wil-helmy, at a recent concert, says a more astonishing series of tours deforce was never heard. The most extraordinary difficulties were compassed with the greatest ease and purity of intonation. But his performance, wonderful as it was, seemed wanting in that indefinable charm which in the case of such players as' Joachim goes straight to the heart and makes the hearer think more of the music than the player.
—The London Atlienaum of the 8th says: “Herr I Johann Strauss, eldest son of the famed dance composer, has met with signal success at the Renaissance, in Paris, with his three-act opera bouffe, ‘La Reine Indigo.’ It was originally produced in Vienna, some four or five years since, and Herr Strauss subsequently was fortunate with three other comic operas, of which ‘ Cagliostro ’ was the last. It seems that it was M. Offenbach who advised Herr Strauss to compose operas, being struck with the vein of melody shown in his dance compositions.”
—The Harvard Musical Association have just completed their tenth year of symphony concerts (100 concerts in all); Mr. Thomas has just completed his first season, for the symphony concert must be looked upon as the really proper sphere for an orchestra like his, and the various too miscellaneous concerts he has given in Boston for the last five years can only be recorded as so many light, fascinating hors diceuvrcs to whet the appetite of a confessedly uncertain public, but of no marked nutritious properties. Now that the season is well over, we find ourselves forced to admit that Mr. Thomas’ concerts have been in general far more successful than those of the Harvard Musical Association. We do not care to conceal the fact that we are sorry for this.—Atlantic Monthly for June.
—Though few additional details of the first performance on the 20th ult. of the new opera, “The Maccabees,” by Herr Rubenstein, the pianist, at the Imperial Opera-House in Berlin, in presence of the German Emperor and the court, have yet reached us, it seems to have been a great success. The composer was much cheered at the close of the opera. The orchestra saluted him with a triple fanfare, and in the royal box he received from the Emperor the Order of the Red Eagle of the Third Class. The composer is now in Paris, for the production of his oratorio, “The Tower of Babel,” and his fifth pianoforte concerto. He was Io commence a series of soirees at Erard’s saloon on the 29th ult.
—The Berlin correspondent of the London Daily News writes on April 30: “No Emperor on his return from the victories of a brilliant campaign was ever received with greater enthusiasm by his faithful subjects than was Richard Wagner last Saturday by his Berlin votaries, whose name is legion. All the avenues to the concert-house in Leipzigerstrasse, where the two performances took place, were blocked up with a dense throng of private carriages and vehicles of every sort, th converged in endless lines toward this point from every quarter of the city. When ।	the great composer appeared, to make his bow before tak-
r	ing his place at his music-stand, which was a very bower
of evergreens and flowers, a shout arose that seemed as |	though it must bring the roof down upon us. The shout
|	was followed by another and yet another; handkerchiefs
w	waved from every side, crowns and wreaths were thrown
1	from above and below toward the orchestra,—most _of
t hem, of course, missing their aim and settling on quite other objects than that for which they were destined.”
<	—In its account of the Concert given by Miss Sophia
Flora Heilbron, the young yet eminent pianiste, Watson's Art Journal says :
Miss Heilbron’s second Recital of her third series took place at Steinway’s large Hall, last Wednesday afternoon, before a fashionable audience, which, considering that it was composed mainly of ladies, was very enthusiastic. The pieces selected by Miss Heilbron had not been played at any of her previous Recitals. The first was Chopiu’s Grand Polonaise op. 53. Her reading of this difficult composition was refined and artistic. It| was thoughtful, and evinced careful study of the com
poser’s intentions, in the well-marked contrasts of grace and sentiment, with brilliance and stately power. Her manipulation of the work was almost faultless in its clearness, delivery, and precision, white her power was used with judgment and effect. Her interpretation of this work places her on a higher artistic plane than anything she has hitherto done. In Wallace’s First Concert-Polka she displayed much brilliant pianism, doing full justice to that graceful and brilliant composition. The great success of the Matinee was the new duo for two pianos, composed by Mr. Alfred H. Pease, on themes from'* La Fille de Madame Angot,” which Miss Heilbron played with the composer. The piece was composed for Miss Heilbron, by Mr. Pease, and displayed the genius, and the dashing, brilliant, and the accurate manipulation of the young pianist, by introducing new, ingenious and elaborate difficulties which she threw off with the easy dash of executive certainty. It is a well-considered composition, ingenious in its construction, tasteful in the selection of the themes, with a view to contrast of color, the whole being so broadly treated as to be almost orchestral in effect. It was most brilliantly executed by the two artists, and the excellence of the performance, and the popular character of the composition, secured for it an enthusiastic encore, to which the artists were compelled to assent, and acknowledged the compliment well-deserved by playing in the most effective manner Mr. Pease’s brilliant transcription of the Nautilus Waltz.
Scientific Notes.
—Cincinnati is about establishing a Zoological and Botan ical Garden in the northern suburbs of the city.
—All the steamers afloat on the Caspian Sea use petro leum exclusively for fuel, burning it with the aid of a bias of steam.
—During, a German physician, asserts that an average dose of four grammes of chloral hydrate suffices not only to procure rest and sleep in case of sea-sickness but even to entirely cure the disorder.
—Dr. Gustav Leipoldt, as the result of an elaborate cal* culation, gives the main height of Europe as about eleven hundred and fifty-seven feet, which is two hundred and sixty-eight feet higher than the average given by Humboldt.
—M. Perrotin, of Toulouse, has discovered another small planet (No. 144,) on the 28th of April. Now that the list has reached &gross, and exhausted the “ multiplication table,” is it completed? Probably not. The present is the second of M. Perrotin’s contributions to the group.
—Antimony, equal to the best English, is produced in San Francisco from native ore, and might be sold there at a far lower price than the imported article. In practice, however, the California metal has to be shipped to New York, and then returned to San Francisco as imported antimony, consumers persisting in the belief that unless it comes from England it is of little value 1
—It appears that the Chinese are not satisfied with the artificial dwarfing of their women’s feet, but have carried their experiments into the vegetable kingdom. There is now on exhibition at the Acclimatization Gardens in the Bois de Boulogne, Paris, a dwarf-tree about two feet in height, with a trunk the thickness of a man’s finger, and roots that would hardly fill the palm of the hand; and yet this tree is an oak one hundred years old. The dwarfing was effected by artificial means, and is the result of continued experiment in this grotesque branch of horticulture.
—It is proposed to apply the tempered glass of M. de la Basti to safety lamps for the use of colliers. It is a peculiarity of this toughened glass that it is not easily broken; but it appears that by sudden cooling it is rapidly reduced to powder. M. Chauselle, of the St. Etienne Society of Mineral Industry, proposed, as we understand the BecueIndus-trielle, to obviate this objection by engraving on the glass lines of less resistance. M. Euverte attempts to show that the annealing of glass by De la Bastie’s process has a great analogy to the tempering of steel by oil, as for artillery.
—A letter has been received in St. John’s, Newfoundland, from a gentleman in Grand Bank, stating that on the 10th of January a gigantic cuttie fish was cast ashore, the body of which was 13 feet in length and 10 feet in girth. The arms (the long tentacles) were 26)4 feet in length and
c54
THE SCHOLASTIC.
16 inches in their greatest circumference. The beak was larger than that of an owl. The account is thoroughly trustworthy. Unfortunately the people who found it, not knowing that it was of any value, cut it up for their dogs; and the coast being blockaded by ice, no account reached here until a few days since.
—A means of rendering ships insubmersible, through a peculiar application of compressed air, has lately been brought to the attention of the Academy of Sciences, Paris, exciting no little interest. This plan proposes that the hull of the vessel be divided into two parts by a bridge across at the water line, in such a way that air cannot penetrate from the lower to the upper part. If a hole be made in a hull through a collision the water will of course immediately enter: but it will not wholly fill the lower compartment, for the enclosed air, not having any outlet, is necessarily compressed, and will ere long equilibrate the external force. From this moment, therefore, the ship will cease to sink—she will, in fact, be in the position of a diving bell. It is claimed that experiments made with this arrangement prove it to be in all respects successful.
—Lieutenant Conder, R. E., the officer in charge of the survey of Palestine, reports the recent discovery of the city and cave of Adullam. M. Clermont Ganneau found last year the name of Ayd el Mich attached to a ruin in the “Shephelah,” a low country of Judah. The spot has now been visited and thoroughly examined by the survey party, the conclusion arrived at being that it is the veritable site of Adullam. If this be agreed upon, fresh light will be thrown on the principal scenes of David’s outlaw life. Ayd el Mieh is placed in a commanding position in the presumed valley of Elah, where David killed Goliath, and in which the Philistines always had, unless barred by strongholds such as this, an open highway, a mile broad, up which they could made their forays on the fertile cornland of Judah. It lies half-way between Socoh and Krilah, and about eight miles north-east of Beit Jibrius. The ruins comprise the usual confused remains of dwellings, ■with wells still open, aqueducts, tombs, hills, terraces for cultivation, and rock fortification, Without the •walls and on both sides of the valley are a series of caves, still used as dwelling-places or stables, in which abundant room might be found for David and his followers. Photographs have been taken by Lieutenant Kitchener (who has succeeded the late Sir. Tyrwhitt Drake in the survey,) and doubtless the ruins will be sketched and planned by Lieutenant Conder. The district in which the party are now engaged has yielded an abundant harvest of Biblical names, the list of those recovered by the expedition in this neighborhood exceeding in number all those found by previous travellers together—a fact illustrative of the value of systematic research.—Westminster Gazette.
Art Notes. .
—The column of Vendome is to be restored, with the statue of Napoleon, as it was before the Commune.
—Twenty American artists have sent pictures to the French salon this year. Of these, four are ladies.
—JL M. Gerome and Bouiauger, the celebrated French painters, have received commissions from the Sultan for several of their works.
—The president of the French Republic has appointed M. Barbe, Conservator of the Middle-Age collections at the Louvre, to represent the Government at the centenary fetes of Michael Angelo, at Florence.
—It is understood that Mr. Stacpoole has accepted a commission to engrave Miss ’I'bomson’s “ Quatre Bras,” to form a companion in the famous “Roll Call” of last year.
—Miss Harriet Hosmer is engaged on a new conception of Beatrice Cenci in marble.
—Within the past month three important pictures have been added to the Corcoran Gallery, Washington. These are Zeriu’s “ Constantinople at Sunset, from the Golden Hour.” “ The Beach of Scheveningen, Holland,” by Kaem-merer; and “A Scene at Fontainebleau ” by Compt.
—The busts of the following will be placed on the thirteen pedestals recently erected in the private assembly
room of the French Academy: Villemain, Lamartine, Casimir, Delavigne, Alfred de Musset, Berryer, Montalem-bert, Lebrun, Duke de Broglie, Cousin, Guizot, Jocqueville, Rossi, and Jouffroy.
—Rottmaun’s celebated fresco-paintings of Italian scenery under the arcades of the Hofgarten of Munich have hitherto only been known to visitors of that town; but the firm of Bruckmaun, of Munich, have recently rendered them accessable to all by publishing a reproduction of them in chromo lithography.
—Among the most interesting exhibitions of the year, in New York, is the collection of crayon drawings from the Antique School of the National Academy. There are about fifty studies from the cast, an'd for the progress they show in American art-instruction, and as being the work of the most considerate art-school in the United States, they are full of significancy and importance.—Appleton's Journal.
—Wilkie’s original sketch for the “Blind Man’s Buff” was recently bequeathed to the National Gallery by Miss Bredel, and it will shortly be placed before the public. It is signed with the painter’s name, and dated “ 1811.” It appears to have been the first work produced in the comparatively magnificent residence which the modest Scotchman had, together with his friends the Coppards, ventured on at this period, for, writing to his sister from 29, Lower Phillimore-place, Kensington, he says, “ ‘The Rat-Catcher’ ” (this is now among the diploma pictures in the Royal Academy collection) “is now nearly finished, and I expect to begin the oil sketch of ‘The Blind Man’s Buff’ very soon.” He had previously resided at 4, Manor-terrace, Chelsea, and had just been, to his great delight, elected an A. R. A. The larger picture of “Blind Man’s Buff” was painted for the Prince Regent, at the price of 500 guineas. It, then unfinished, was comprised (1812) in Wilkie’s unsuccessful exhibition of his works at 87, Pall-Mall. It will be remembered that the picture called “ The Village Holiday” was distrained by the sheriff for rent due, not by Wilkie, for the premises occupied for this exhibition. To this circumstance was owing, probably, as A. Cunningham suggested, the admirable and pathetic “Distraining for Rent.” The picture of “Blind Man’s Buff" is now at Buckingham Palace. The sketch, sold by Wilkie to his patron, the Earl of Mulgrave, was re-sold, with other pictures belonging to that nobleman, in 1832, the price obtained being £115 10s. It is worth noting that the Earl also had the sketches for Wilkie’s “ Blind Fiddler,” “ Village Politicians,” “ Cut Finger,” “ Rent-D.iy,” “ Alfred,” “Caid Party,” “Sick Chamber,” “Digging for Rats,” above mentioned, “Jew’s Harp,” “Wardrobe,” and “Village Festival,” besides the pictures known as “ Sunday Morning ” and “ The Rent-Day.” The new acqusition is a desirable one, full of spirit, and rich and warm in tone and color.
Society Notes.
—The eighth regular meeting of the Notre Dame Scientific Association was held on Sunday evening, May 23d. Mr. E. J. McLaughlin read a very pleasing dissertation on Arsenic; the gentleman handled his subject in an elegant and masterly manner. Mr. James Caren next favored the Society with a very interesting and instructive article on Tobacco; though his subject was very commonplace, Mr. Caren found many new and interesting ideas to advance.
—The ninth regular meeting of the Notre Dame Scientific Association was held on Sunday evening, May 30th. Messrs. E. S. Monahan and H. C. Cassidy were elected members of the Association. The Secretary then read a very pleasing letter from Rev. Father Carrier, in which he stated his willingness to favor the Society with a lecture, in compliance with their request. Mr. T. J. Murphy then favored the Association with-a highly interesting article on “ Aerstation,” in which he set forth in an elegant style the facts connected with the invention and discovery of aerial ascent.
—The 36tb, 37th, and 38th regular meetings of the St. Cecilia Philomathcan Association were held respectively May the 10th, 18th and 26th. At these meetings, the
THE SCHOLASTIC
555
following read compositions or delivered declamations: Masters D. O’Connell, Minton, Downev, Best, McHugh, Schmidt, Walker, E. Arnold, Solon, McNamara, Wood, and O’Hara. At the last of the above meetings, Rev. Father Golovin, Director of the Association, was present, and after a few appropriate remarks assigned to each member his respective parts in the next Exhibition.
—The 32nd regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Association was held May 20th. The following delivered declamations: Masters Quan, Del Vecchio, Roelie, Whipple, French, Dryfoos and J. Nelson. At the 33rd regular meeting, held May 24th, Rev. Father Golovin was present, and spoke at some length on the merits and demerits of their; Exhibition. The members were very much pleased with his remarks on reading and elocution, and they hope to have the pleasure of hearing him soon again. Before the meeting adjourned, Bro. Marcellinus was elected an honorary member.
Pessonal.
—Rev. Wm. Murphy, of ’58, is now stationed at Lockport, Ill.
—Mr. Cash, of Chicago, spent last Monday afternoon at the College.
—We are pleased to see M. J. Moriarty, back again at Notre Dame.
—Rev. Father Quinlan, of Elkhart, was at the College on Thursday.
—Geo. P. Colvin, of ’61, is connected with the United States Express Co., Chicago Ill.
—Signor Gregori has made great progress on the portrait of Judge Stanfield of South Bend.
—“Father” Me Laughlin regrets that he had not enough time to remain and hear the young musicians at St. Mary’s.
—Rt. Rev. Dr. D wenger, of Fort Wayne, arrived here ou Wednesday. He sang Pontifical Mass on Friday, the Feast of the Sacred Heart. .
—Rev. John Conway of London, Ohio, and Rev. Wm. Sidley, of ’61, of Springfield, Ohio, paid a visit to Notre Dame, on Thursday afternoon. We hope to see them here frequently.
—Ed. Brown, of ’65, is spoken of as the Democratic nominee for Attorney General in Ohio. He would be the right man for the office, and we hope that the Democratic convention will honor themselves by nominating him.

Local Items.
—Hot!
—Judgment.
—Tim is back.
—’Rah for June!
—New clothes are the rage.
—Times are becoming brisk.
—Alley-ball has a few admirers.
—Mr. Shickey has three fine rigs.
—The small organ has a fine tone.
—The oak trees are now in full leaf.
—Prof. Paul has charge of the Concert.
—Football is not played here just now.
—Now days for perspiration have come.
—Remember the organ recital to-morrow.
—Are they training well for the boat-race ?
—Home—Home—Home—is all the the talk.
—The stained glass from Chicago is very fine.
—Examination is expected to commence soon.
—Just wait for the last numbers of the Scholastic!
—The Toms are a strong body in the Scholastic corps.
—Work has been commenced on the new steam-house.
—Work has been commenced in the Botanical Garden.
—The Cecilians have commenced their general rehearsals.
—This is the season in which the students enjoy themselves.
—“ ’Rah for the 1st of June! ” was the cry of many last Tuesday.
—Father Golovin’s Lecture last Monday evening was a little gem.	.
—Mr. Bonney takes many photographs every day he comes out.
—Gounod’s Htfesse Solonndle will be sung at the Mass for the Alumni. •
—The Orchestra rehearsed with the new organ last Wednesday.
—What was the matter at the St. Cecilia rehearsal the other evening?
—Prof. Paul is preparing a grand Mass for Commence- • ment morning.
—There are several private societies, amongst the Seniors especially.
—Our friend John has been sitting on the “ ragged edge ” this last week.
—The Sacred Concert to-morrow afternoon is expected to be a grand one.
—Mr. Bonney’s pictures of the repositories last Thursday are very good.
—It is almost as hard to get recreation these days as to have a tooth pulled.
—Wednesday was one of the best days yet that the baseballists had to play.
—We admire the Prince Albert coat on some: but on others it looks ridiculous.
—Rt. Rev. Bishop D wenger of Ft. Wayne arrived here last Wednesday morning.
—Our friend John says he prefers to change his attire before taking a lake bath.
—Bro. Norbert has had some seats placed under the shade trees near the play-hall.
—To-morrow is the Golden Jubilee of John of Tuam, “ the noblest Roman of them all.”
—Don’t embrace on the boat-house platform, lest you meet the sad fate of our friend John.
—The red, white and blue man attracted the attention of many, but especially of Jack, last Thursday.
—The Boat Club, or rather the Commodore, has built a very nice pier on the east side of the boat-house.
—The Junior yard has been thoroughly cleaned, and the debris carted on by Thomas Gegan. Bully for Tom!
—We return thanks to Mr. McKay, of the Bond House, for his hospitality during our sojourn in Niles.
—The Band serenaded Judge Stanfield and the party of ladies and gentlemen who were at the College last Saturday.
—The Juniors are under many obligations to Bro. Simon for having their yard cleared, back-stop and seats erected, etc.
—It’s a hard task to write locals when a friend is blowing some melodious notes out of an E-flat horn into your ear.
—All seem to be very much pleased with the stained glass from France. It is the most beautiful we have ever seen.
—A secular friend of ours was by mistake shown through the Academy the other day as “ Father M.” Good joke on the portress.
—The St. Cecilians and Philopatrians had an equal num her on the Roll of Honor last week—namely, thirteen members each.
—The Band had a rehearsal every night during the past week. We understand they are going to try to play their best to-morrow.
—This is the hardest part of the year for the students;;
556
THE SCHOLASTIC.
the heat and the expectation of going home soon make them feel rather unsettled.
—South Bend was very lively on last Sunday. The citizens turned out in large numbers to decorate with flowers the soldiers’ graves.
—Our friend John says that St. Mary’s was beautifully illuminated last Monday night. But what seemed to pleas’e him best was the singing.
—The organists had to work nights during the fore-part of the week. It seems there was too much noise around, so the tuning had to be done at night.
—We had the pleasure of hearing the South Bend Cornet Band on last Sunday. It is evidently a credit to the city, and deserves the enconiums of both press and public.
—This is a bad time of the year for getting reckless. It’s poor policy to work nine months for honors and then counterbalance all by three weeks’bad conduct. Very! /
—The Juniors took a walk on Sunday evening, aftersup^ per, with Br. Marcellinus; it being too warm to take their accustomed walk in the afternoon. Only ten boys remained in the yard.
—We have received from W. L. Kizer Esq., Sec’y of the South Bend Trotting Association, the programme of the races on the 16th, 17th and 18th, which we will notice at length in our next issue.	-
—Our friend John volunteered to keep score for the Excelsior and Juanita B. B. C. on last Sunday. Before starting out he lit his pipe, thinking no doubt that it would keep his nerves steady. Some parties were scandalized.
—The Philopatrians, accompanied by Bro. Leandei’ spent Saturday afternoon in fishing in St. Joe River. One of the party, who neglected to bring fishing-tackle, made a line from the bark of a tree, using a pin for a hook; he caught three “ sunnies.”
—The Minims return their sincere thanks to Rev. Father Golovin for a favor recently received at his hands. They congratulate themselves on the honor shown them; they would like to mention it, but do not wish to excite feelings of jealousy among their big brothers the Seniors and Juniors.
—Our friend John was in a frightful predicament last Tuesday evening. - Whilst fooling with another person in the bow of one of the new boats he lost his balance and fell—not into the water—but into the mud. Oh! what a fall was there, my friends! We were very sorry that Mr. Bonney was not at hand.	'	’
—There will be an excursion on the Niles and South Bend R. R. to-morrow, leaving Niles at 3 p. m., and returning at 7 p. m. It is given in order that the citizens of Niles and South Bend may have an opportunity of attend-
• ing the organ concert. Half-fare tickets will be issued. The fare from South Bend to Notre Dameand return will be only 10 cents; from Niles and back, 30 cents.
—Rt. Rev. Bishop D wenger, of Fort Wayne, accompanied by Rev. Father Borg, arrived at Notre Dame on Wednesday forenoon, and on Thursday morning he conferred the Order of Deaconship on Messrs. John Z ihm and D. Hudson, of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. At the same time, Minor Orders were conferred on Messrs. John O’Keeffe, Peter Franciscus, Christopher Kelly, Valentine Czyefsky, and Aristide Daumet.
—The young gentlemen who visited St. Mary’s Academy, on Friday last, return their most sincere thanks, first to Very Rev. Father Granger, for the extra recreation and permit; likewise to Rev. Mr. Kelly for his kindness in introducing them while out on their little tour, and for procuring them a nice lunch. Also to Sister Angeline for her kindness and courtesy in showing them through and about the Academy; and finally to the junior refectorians, who prepared the excellent lunch.
On Friday morning at eight o’clock, Solemn High Mass was celebrated, by the Right Rev. Bishop, assisted by five priests at which Rev. Messrs. Zahm, and Hudson were elevated to the Priesthood. Among others who were present at the ordinations were Rev. Fathers Sorin, Granger, Golovin, Louage, Borg, Conway, Sidley, Toohey, O’Mahony, Letourneau, Lauth, Vagnier, Maher, Frere, Delehanty,
Ford, and O’Connell. On the same day the Right Rev. Bishop administrated Confirmation to 112 persons at Notre Dame, and to more than 80 persons at St. Joseph’s Church Lowell, of which Rev. Father Letourneau C. S. C. is pastor.
—The Directors of Lemonnier Library Association acknowledge with thanks the receipt of the following donations: Very Rev. Father Granger gave three books—“The Young Doctor,” “Ludovic and Gertrude,” by Hendrik Conscience and “Domus Dei” by Eleanor C. Donnelly. The Editor of the Scholastic presented two volumes. Mr. T. Bartlett, of Chicago, “Life of Napoleon”; Master W. G. Morris, “Archibald Hamilton”; Mr. C. Louis presented “ History of Louisiana ”, “ Selections from French Classics ” and “ Life of Henry XIV ”. Hon. Mayor Jones of Toledo, “Mayor’s Address for 1874”; Master Robert Walker, “ Life of St. Aloysius ”.
# —The new Organ, just erected in the new church of •Our Lady of the Sacred Heart at this place, was built by the Derrick & Felgemaker Pipe Organ Company, of Erie, Pennsylvania, at a cost of about $6,000. The instrument as it stands in the yet incompleted edifice presents a pleasing appearance. When the church shall have been finished, the contrast in build and color will be less, and consequently its artistic design will be shown to a greater degree.
The casement is of Gothic structure and rosewood finish, standing 40 feet high, 20 feet wide, and 12 feet deep. The cross on top stands 60 feet from the ground floor. The compass of the manuals is from CO to C, 61 notes—two more than is generally used; compass of pedals, from COG to F, 30 notes. It has a range of nine octaves. Complications have been made by which the keys can be raised or lowered to counteract the effect of the weather. It is a full organ, consisting of 2,041 pipes, the longest metal pipe measuring nineteen feet six inches; longest wood pipe 16 feet; the shortest metal, five-eighths of an inch, and shortest wood, one and one-half inch.
The following is a detailed statement of the registers: Gbeat Manuals.
16 ft. Double Open Diapason, mctil, 61 pipes;
16 ft. Bourdon, wood, 61 pipes ;
8 ft. Open Diapason, metal 61 pipes ;
8 ft. Geigen Principal, metal, 61 pipes ;
8 ft. Duleiana, metal, 61 pipes ;
8 ft. Melodia, wood, 61 pipes ;
4 ft. Choral Elute, wood, 61 pipes ;
4 ft. Principal, metal, 61 pipes;
2% ft. Twelfth, metal, 61 pipes;
2	It. Fifteenth, metal, 61 pipes ;
3	Banks Mixture, metal, 183 pipes ;
2 “ Doublette, metal, 122 pipes ;
4 “ Clarion, impinging reed, 61 pipes;
8 “ Trumpet, free reed, 61 pipes;
Swell Manuals.
16 ft. Bourdon, wood, 61 pipes;
8 ft. Open Diapason, metal, 61 pipes ;
8 ft. Salicional, metal, 61 pipes;
8 ft. Double-toned Diapason, wood, 61 pipes ;
8 ft. Zephyr Gamba, metal, 61 pipes;
8 ft. Still Gedacht, wood, 61 pipes ;
4 ft. Flauto Traverse, metal, 61 pipes ; •
4 ft. Fugara, metal, 61 pipes ;
2 ft. Flute Angelique, metal, 61 pipes ;
3 Ranks Dolce Cornet, metal, 183 p.pes ;
4 “ Octave Horn, reed, 61 pipes ;
8 “ Oboe with Bassoon Bass, reed, 61 pipes ; Pedals.
16 ft. Double Open Diapason, wood, 30 pipes;
16 ft Double-Stopped Diapason, wood, 30 pipes ;
8 ft. Floete, wood, 30 pipes ;
8 ft. Violoncello, metal, 30 pipes ;
16 ft. Trombone, free reed, 30 pipes;
Mechanical Registeks.
Couple Swell to Pedals; Couple Great to Pedals; Couple Swell to Great; Tremulant; Bellows.
Pneumatic Combinations.
Full great Manuals; Solo great Manuals ; full to 4 ft. great; Reversible—great to pedals; Balance swell pedal; Pneumatic Key action in Bass.
Mr. S. L. Derrick, the President of the Company, is the gentleman who superintended the erection of both this and the organ now in Grand Rapids, Mich. He gave perfect
THE SCHOLASTIC.
551
satisfaction in the first instance, and he will no doubt do the same in this. He has shown by the manner in which his work has been performed here, so far, that he thoroughly understands his business. To-morrow all will
> have an opportunity of judging its musical qualities.
Programme of Ezaminatioa June 14,1875.
Committees.
Classical Course, Room No. 4.—Rev. A. Louage. C. 8. C., President; Rev. J. O'Connell, C. S. C.; Rev. J. Fr5re, 0. S. C.; Profs. J. A. Lyons, W. Ivers, T. Howard.
Scientific Course, Room No. 3.—Rev. J. Zahm, C. S. 0., President; Rev. F. 0. Bigelow, C. S. C.; Rev. D. Hudson, C. S. C.; Profs. W. Ivers, A. J. Stace, T. Howard, T. F. O’Mahony.
Commercial Course, Room No. 13—Rev. P. J. Golovin, C. S. C., President; Bro. Philip, C. 8. C.; Profs. L. G. Tong, W. Ivers, J. A. Lyons, T. F. O’Mahony, 0. M. Schnurrer.
Preparatory Senior, Room No. 1.—Rev. J. Toohey, C. S. 0., President; P. Collins, C. S. C.; D. Haggerty, C. S. 0.; J. O’Keefe, C. S. C.; Bro. Marcellinus, C. 8. C.; Bro. Paul, C. S. C.; Prof. J. F. Edwards.
Preparatory Junior, Room No. 7.—Rev. C. Kelly, C. S. C., President; Mr. J. Shea, C. S. C.; Bro. Leander, C. S. C.; Bro. Alexander, C. S. C.; Bro. Hubert, C. S. C.; Profs. T. A. Dailey, M. S. Foote.
Modern Languages, Room No. 6.—Rev. L. Franciscus, C. S. 0., President; L. Oliver, C. S. C.; W. P. Johannes, C. S. C.; J. Schirrer, C. S. 0.; Bro. Hubert, C. S. C.; Prof. 0. M. Schnurrer.
Fine Arts, Grand Parlor—Rev. J. Frere, G. S. C., President; Bro. Basil, C. S. C.; Bro. Leopold, 0. S. C.; Bro. Albert, C. S. C.; Profs. J. Paul, J. Gillespie, J. Ruddiman.
Minim Department—Free members of the Faculty.
• Glasses.
Classical Course.—Nos. 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 46, 47, 48, 50, 51, 51 or 51	52.
Scientific Course.—Nos. 49, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59. 60, 61,61^, 62,63, 64 65,.66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74. 75, Commercial Course.—Nos. 4, 8, 11, 15, 20,123, 26, 29, 31, 32.
Preparatory Senior.—Nos. 18,*21, 22,24, 27,28, 30.
Preparatory Junior.—Nos. 1, 2, 3, 5,6,7, 9,10,12,13, 14,16,17, 97, 98.	.
Modern Languages.—Nos. 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82.
Fine Arts.—Nos. 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 93, 94, 95.
Special Facutlies.
Commercial.—Profs. L. J. Tong, W. Ivers, J. A. Lyons, T. F. O’Mahony, 0. M. Schnurrer, Bro.'Philip Neri,jC. 8. C.
Classical.—Rev. A. Louage, C. 8. C.; Rev. J. Fr^re, C. 8. C.; Rev. J. A. O’Connell, C. 8. 0.; Profs. J. Lyons, T. E. Howard, W. Ivers.
Scientific.—Rev. J. Zahm, C. S. C.; Rev. J. O’Connell, C. S. C.; Rev. Louis Neyron, Profs. T. E. Howard, A. J. Stace, T. F. O’Mahony.
Law.—Prof. L. J. Tong, LL. B.; Rev. F. C. Bigelow, C. S. C.; Rev. J. O’Connell, 0. S. C.
.Medicine—Rev.LouisNeyron,M.D.; J.Cassidy,M.D.
Civil Engineering.—Profs. A. J. Stace, T. E. Howard, W. Ivers.
•	Found.
A silver watch has been found in one of the College halls. The owner can recover his property by applying to Rev. Father Toohey.	’
—The smallest dewdrop that rests on a lily at night holds in itself the image of a shining star, and.in the most humble, insignificant person something good and true can always be found.
I —The 17th Annual Summer Exercises, of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, complimentary this year to Very Rev. A. Granger, C. 8. C., will take place next Tues-dap evening, at 7 p. m. The following is the programme presented for the occasion:
part first.
Grand Entrance March....................N.	D. U. C. Band.
Overture......................................Orchestra
Address of the Evening, and Prologue......D. J. O’Connell
Song.......................................T.M. O’Leary
Declamation............................. .J. P. McHugh
Apostrophe to the Sword—(Selected)........'A. K. Schmidt
Music—Quickstep..........................N.D. U. C. Band
part second.
“THE MALEDICTION.”
A Drama in Three Acts, Translated From the French.
-	Dramatis Personae:
Don Vasco de Gomez, a Spanish nobleman Don Alonzo, Son of Don Vasco............ Don Lopez, Confidant of Alonzo.......... Tarik, Lieutenant to the Caliph......... Pedro, Peasant...........................
Pedrillo, Son of Pedro.................. Fabricio “ “ “ ......................... Ibrahim, Rich Mahometan................. Juanino, Slave of Ibrahim................
Mendoza, Spanish Officer.................
Marrietto Basilia... Sancho... Virginio.. Leon...... Leandro..
Spanish Soldiers
Abdallah—Mahometan—Officer, Jirmibechlick, Turkish Slave...,
Megig......
Tchad....... Ugani.....'. Pain-Tchad Gensaro.... Dion....... Virgilio.... Ruisco.....
Turkish Soldiers.
f
J
f
J
TABLEAU.
....J. W. Minton ............AK. Schmidt ......J. P. McHugh .... .T. McNamara ......J. E. Wood ......R. J. Downey ......J. D. O’Hara ......J. P. Dore ......L. P. Best ......F. E. Foxen ....J.D. McIntyre ......J. L. Perea ......-T. J. Solon .......W. C. Byrne ......AT. A. Kramer .... ..M. J. Murphy ......E. _F. Arnold F. J. Weisenburger ......A. S. Leitelt ......J.C. Golsen ......F. Frazee ......A. H. Mitchell :.....H. D. Faxon
..........R. J. Walker .....C. W. Hake ......E.F. Riopelle
Epilogue.
Closing Remarks.
March for Retiring.
.N. D. U. C. B.
In the Second Act, Alonzo bears the name of Almanzor and in the Third, that of Fernando. In the Second Act, Lopez bears the name of Soliman.
After Act First, music by the N. D. U. C., Band; after Act Second, music by the Orchestra.
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
V. Baca, F. Brady, J. Berringer, J. A. Brown, W. Ball, J. Caren, J. Crummey, G. Crummey, H. Cassidy, W. Canavan, F. Devoto, B. Euans, J. Ewing, M. Foley, C. Favey, J. Flaherty, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, H- Hunt, T. Hansard, J. Hogan, W. Hughes, A. Hertzog, J. Kennedy, J. Kopf, M. Keeler, G. Kelly, J. Larkin, P. Lawrence, G. McNulty, J. Marks, E. McPharlin, R. Maas, E. Maas, F. Montgomery, W. McGavin, J. Mathews, E. Monahan, E. McLaughlin, Peter Mattimore, Patrick Matti-more, L. Moran, A. Mohan, E. Marshall, P. McCawley, J. Ney, T. O’Leary, C. Proctor, G. Roulhac, J. Rudge, P. Skahill, F. Schlink, P. Shaul, J. Soule, J. Thornton, C. Walters, R. White, J. Whalen, C. Welty.
junior department. _
E. F. Arnold, W. Arnold, A. Bergck, J. Buckels, A. Burger, J. Crummey, J. Dore, J. Del Vecchio, R. Downey, F. Ewing, L. Evers, H. D. Faxen, J. French, W. Edwards, J. T. Foley, G. J. Gross, J. Griffith, F. Hoffman, W. Hansard, H. Harvey, J. E. Kurtz, F. Klaner, A. Leitelt, J. Leitelt, C. E. Leonhardt, J. Mclnryre, R. McGrath, H. McGuire, T. Monahan, M. J. Murphy, W. Nicholas, D. Nelson, C. R. Post, H. W. Quan, E. F. Riopelle, J. A. Smith, A. Schmitd, T. J. Solon, H. Weber, C. J. Whipple, J. E. Wood, G. Woodward, F. Weisenberger, F. Rosa, T. Quinn, 0. Meyer, G. R. Serrill, W. Roelle, F. Phelan.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Francis Carlin, Edward Raymond, John O’Meara, Colly Clarke, Ralph Golsen, Michael McAuliffe, Joseph Carrer, Samuel Goldsberry, Francis McGrath, John Duffield, Lee J. • Frazee, Joseph A. Beal, Thomas Hooley, Hugh Colton, Albert J. Bushey, Louis Goldsmith, Harry Ordway, Willie Coolbaugh, Sylvester Bushey,Charlie Bushey.
558	THESCHOLASTIC.
Class Honors.
TOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, JUNE 3. preparatory course.
Senior Crass—G. Roulhac, W. Canavan, R. White, P. Mat-timore, E. Maas. W. Fullerton, T. Carroll, C. Wisner, A. Wisner, E. Marshall, J. Reidy, A. Hertzog, J. Kopf.
Junior Crass—J. Nelson, J. Del Vecchio, R. Walker, P. Fitzpatrick, D. Nelson, J. French, M. Katzauer, F. Rosa, C. Post, A. Beteher, C. Leonhardt, J. Foley, C. Hitchcock, J. Smith, H. Webber, R. McGrath, G. Woodward, H. Sickel, A. Leitelt, J. Leitelt, F. Rollin, E. Gramling, C. Ottoway, H- Harvey, J. Colton, W. Kreigli, J. Haffey, W. Edwards, T. Quinn, O. E. Myers, F. Phelan, O. Ludwig, G. Serril.
MINIM DEPARTMENT
Edward Raymond, Colly Clarke, Ralph Golsen, Joseph Carrer, Colly Campan, Samuel Goldsberry, Francis McGrath, Francis Carlin, Otto Lindberg, Clement Moody, John Duffield, Lee J. Frazee, Robert Haley, Joseph A. Beal, Walter Cunningham.
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY.
—The examination in Music was commenced on Friday in the lower classes. On Saturday afternoon the Primary Classes were also examined. On Monday that of the Class in Thorough Bass took place. So far, the results have given the greatest satisfaction, as the notes forthcoming will prove.
—The com petition in English History mentioned last week deserves more than a passing notice. Miss Julie Kearney and Miss Anna Curtin were the leaders, and though the competition continued for two hours, not one of the eleven young ladies could be puzzled or made to fail. Perfect good humor and courtesy characterized the combat.
—On the triple feast of the closing of May, St. Angela, and Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, everyone endeavored to satisfy the devotion cherished so warmly by all at St. Mary’s for the beloved Mother Superior, whose feast it •was, so far as distance would permit. It was, however, very lonely in her absence. High Mass was sung at six o’clock, and the customary procession took place in the evening, but the presence which has made the 31st of May so great a pleasure, so dear for so many years, was wanted. It could not be supplied. Beautiful memorials of the heart were forwarded to Mother Superior in Baltimore, in time to reach her upon her festival.
—The Graduating Class are applying themselves to the acquirement of skill in “ Domestic Economy.” Practical lessons are received by them every week in the Culinary Department. Several of the class display considerable proficicency already, and we believe any one of them could set out a table if required, furnished with palatable dishes prepared by her own hands. This “ accomplishment”— for without a systematic, thorough knowledge of housekeeping, no American lady is deserving of the title,—is one which the Graduates have the good sense to prize, and they would value praise given to a batch of biscuit made by them as equal to that bestowed upon some fine essay or musical performance which they had produced, because in the three supposed cases honor is paid to their efforts to render themselves useful members of society: valuable alike in adversity and in prosperity; not ashamed to be seen in the kitchen, and yet not unfitted to entertain the most polite social circle.
AItT NOTES.
—Miss Lizzie Ritchie painted a beautiful spray of fu-schias on the cover of the address to Mother Superior from the pupils of the Senior Department, for her Feast.
—Miss Lulu Henrotin has painted a bunch of meadowviolets on a whitewood easel; and on the edge, which was cut into leaves, upon a trellis, are young grape-leaves with their variegated hues; thus preserving the "signs of the season.”
—Miss Belle Wade painted some very delicate anemones on the address from the German Class; and pansies beautified—almost perfumed, so exquisitely were they rendered on the paper—the address from the French Class, for the game happy occasion.
—Miss Carrie Morgan has also painted a bunch of meadow-violets, on a whitewood case. We have never seen the meadow-violet more delicately painted, especially the half-open ones, with their tinge of crimson, than in Miss Morgan’s very modest bunch of very modest flowers.	•
We notice a decided improvement in the painting of these delicate subjects among all the water-color pupils. Ruskin says: “All high art is delicate art.” The old Catholic chroniclers used to compare a rich chasuble to a tulipleaf. It belonged to modern sentimentalizing—which deals only with human affections, and never recognizes the innate love of the soul for God, or the joy of its oblations and worship—to stigmatize the tulip as the symbol of pride. In the Catholic ritual the heart of man finds a supernatural use for even natural beauty; and the tulip, instead of typifying a worldly woman’s pride in dress, in velvet and diamonds, typifies the “garment of joy” with which the Church of God arrays herself on high festival days. We had been thinking of all this for a full week, as we saw, day by day, fresh tulips and fresh lilacs on the altars ; but when, on Sunday morning, to these' were aggregated all the glories of the ivies in episcopal magnificence of tint, all the tenderness of the blue field-lupine, the grace of the swinging columbines and the white corollas of the fragrant May-apple, with their rich anthers in Naples-yellow, we said: Could there be a more charming combination of color? and do we not, if we array the seasons and the festivals of the Church in the garments of joy provided for them by the Creator, always secure results which art humbly tries to imitate?
—Although due notice of the “ Week of processions” will appear in other columns of the Scholastic, the Art reporter claims the privilege of enriching her column with what has been, in all the free ages of the Church, one of the choicest sources of inspiration to the Christian artist. The weather on the Feast of Corpus Christi was absolutely perfect; and the procession—as it moved slowly on, to the rythm of the Church-song, from the humble portal of the old Notre Dame (which is soon to live only in the memory of those who love and venerate it for what it has been) before the University and its village of dependencies, along the borders of St. Joseph’s Lake, towards the novitiate, and thence to the borders of St. Mary’s Lake; now under festive arches, and again pausing before the richly-decorated repositories to give the Benediction to the kneeling crowds, —was a magnficent repetition of what has always seemed to us one of the most precious privileges of Notre Dame; the privilege to carry God forth into His own world, and to worship Him in the beauty and the joy of holiness as it was known to our Catholic ancestors. With all this charm of landscape and summer atmosphere, and overarching sky, and waters that reflected the out-door procession, and thus doubled its beauties, perhaps the most impressive part of it all was when the procession, returning past the Chapel of Our Lady of the Angels, pressed up the steep ascent that leads to the church door. Tlje bells chimed their sweetest and their strongest peals: one after another the Societies and their banners gained the level: priest after priest, in surplice, vestment and stole, gained it also; and then came the canopy, under which was carried that Host, to which colors, and lights, and sweet music, and crowds stepping in unison, were now offering their joyful homage. The late twilight tipped with glory the rays of the precious remonstrance holding fast its “ Prisoner of love;” touched, also, with a venerating ray, the head, white as moonlight, of the Patriarch of the Order of the Holy Cross, who bore the heavy remonstrance and its Divine Host, with a strength and ardor of faith like that of St. Christopher when he bore the weight of the Divine Child on his shoulder. There have been long years of toil and care for this venerable Patriarch; but the new church was on his right hand and the old church on his left, when he, too, reached that level; and we saw in store for him, a rich fulfilment of high dreams and holy aspirations for God and His Church in this New World. Nothing could exceed the grandeur of the closing Benediction. Every spot in the church in profound gloom, excepting the sanctuary, which was ablaze with lights; and the only voices, the deep voices of vested priests and acolytes, with the solemn music of those '■'■breathing instruments” of sweet sound
THE SCHOLASTIC.
559
which the old artists did not hesitate to put into the hand of angels.
.—The joy of the Corpus Christi procession had hot died out of our souls, when the 31st of May, and the Feast of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart came, with its procession at St Mary’s; and one so beautiful, so like a dream of paradise, that we can still hardly credit its reality. The summer twilight was just passing into “still evening,” when the societies of the Academy, the pupils, novices, Sisters, were duly ranged, in one semicircle after another, before the shrine of shrines, on the front of the Chapel of Loreto; and pupil, novice, Sister, each bearing her wax taper like a truly “ -wise virgin.” After a few words from Very Rev. Father General, the procession moved on to the music of May hymns, through the grape arbors towards the north; when suddenly every one became aware that a general illumination was going on, beginning at the House of Loreto, continuing with the Novitiate and Academy ! The shrines on the wall of the Novitiate were of great beauty; and when we found ourselves between the lines of tapers that marked the way to Our Lady of Peace; saw the newly opening leaves shimmer in the light of our candles; saw the young leaves of the vine, and their budded flowers, by the light of hundreds of tapers, brighter than any stars; when we passed the place where the Sisters lie in silent ranks in their green beds, each with a cross of living moss on her breast and the rose-bush at her head, and saw the lights gleaming at the foot of the tall cross that marks their cemetery (being, as its name signifies, a place of rest); when we saw the waving lines of light pausing, re-arranging, around Our Lady of Peace, and heard the Salve Regina, on the calm air, while the newly leaved acacias stood relieved against the outer darkness, we felt how solemn and beautiful a thing it was to be a child of the Church, to assist at her festivals!
The procession then returned past Loreto, followed the windings of the high bank overlooking the St. Joseph, with its shrine at'the arbor of the Holy Angels, turned through the garden, passing Trinity Arbor, and the fountain in full play, to the steps of the Academy with its shrine in honor of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, and St. Angela; thence to the shrine of St. Joseph—every step of this green, winding way, marked by candles set in the fresh turf—and then through the convent halls to the chapel, where Benediction was given.
Thus closed the month of May and its devotions at one the shrines of Mary in the New World. Was there a Catholic child that did not feel proud to be a Catholic in that procession, or was there one girl who did not feel proud that Mary, Virgin and Mother, was her sister; for Mary is the perfect woman, in whom is realized more than our sex claims and more than Eve lost.
As we passed the Sister’s cemetery, we were reminded of what Bryant says in his poem on June, of the sounds of the village, and the songs and shouts of the school children, coming up to his green place of rest in the village burying-ground: were reminded of it to realize that Bryant, true master of song as he is, has yet been deprived of the inspirations which the poets of other climes have enjoyed, for he has never seen what we saw last evening, or he would have given a deeper charm to his verse, by hoping, that when he should lie down in his green grave, the melody of the May hymns and canticles of the daughters and children of Mary might reach his place of rest!
One sentence more in connection with the procession of the last week—banners. In America we hardly understand how precious they should be, or how they should receive the choicest touches of the religious artist. Ansano of Siena painted a banner for the spiritual sons of St. Bernardine of Siena, which is one of his claims to glory to this day. Perugino painted banners that were used as prayers before “ high Heaven.” Raphael himself, like a disciple of the Umbrian School as he was, painted his never to be eclipsed Sistine Madonna as & banner! We Know that more than one pious dream of banners, religious banners, not large, but choice and perfect, has been dreamed at St. Mary’s. The time for their fulfilment, in part at least, and giving the necessary time, is not far distant. Processions, and the banners that belong to them, these should be themes to kindle the imagination of every true artist as well as every true child of Mary.	* * *
TABLET OF HONOR.
For the Week Ending June 2.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
For Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct. Deportment and strict observance of academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled:
Misses M. Walker, A. Curtin, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, E. Haggerty, A. Lloyd, J. Locke, J. Kearney, R. Green, A. Smith, L. Dragoo, G. Walton, A. Clarke, J. Fanning, H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, L. Arnold, A. St. Clair, A. O’Connor, M. Daily, A. Walsh, L. Wyman, J. McGuire, E. York, A. and F. Dilger, J. Bennett, M. Faxon, E. Dougherty, J. Nunning, B. Wade, M. Julius, M. Dunbar, L. Johnson, M. Brady, S. Harris, C. Woodward, M. Walsh, K. Hutchinson, M. Pritchard, R. Nete-ler, K. Morris, P. Gaynor, R. Canoll, L- Henrotin, E. Quinlan, J. Kreigh, R. Klar, A. Byrne, M. Roberts, J. Pierce, B. Spencer, K. Spencer, M. Bryson, K. Greenleaf, E. Manu, M. Poquette, A. Duncan, S. Hole, M. Carlin, M. Sheil, K. Casey, M. Gaynor, M. O’Mahony, M. and E. Thompson, C. Morgan, H. Russel, S. Moran, M. Hutchinson, H. Parks, S. and I. Edes, M. McKay, N. McFarlane, D. Cavenor, J. Riopelle, E. Edes, S. Reising, C. West, M. Anthony, L. Gustine, F. and G. Wells, D. Allen, E. Colwell, E. Pierce, N. King, C. Maigrey, L. Bosch, G. Hills, L. Schwass, M. Railton, S. Swalley, L. Ryan.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses B. Wilson, A. Harris, M. O’Connor, I. Fisk, M. Cravens, M. Ewing, E. Lange, A. Cullen, M. and B. Siler, B. Golsen, J. Brown, S. Cash, L. Kirchner, N. McGrath, M. Hooper, A. Goewey, M. Hogan, L. Hutchinson, C. Yates, L. Walsh, H. Kraus, M. Hoffman, E. Lappin, A. Koch, I. Yates, M. Redfield, M. Derby, K. Hudson and M. Bell.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Ewing, N. and I. Mann, A. Peak, M. and C. Hughes, E. Simpson, A. McGrath, C. Trull, R. Goldsberry, Y. Mier.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ENGLISH LESSONS.
Graduating Class—Misses M. Walker, A. Curtin, HI. Wicker, L. Ritchie, E. Haggerty, A. Lloyd, J. Locke, J. Kearney, R. Green, A. Smith, L. Dragoo.
1st Sr. Class—Misses G. Walton, A. Clarke, J. Fanning, H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, L. Arnold, A. St. Clair.
2nd Sr. Class—Misses A. O’Connor, M. Daily, A. Walsh, L. Ritchie, L. Wyman, J. McGuire, E. York, A. and F. Dilger, J. Bennett, M. Faxon, E. Dougherty, J. Nunning, B. Wade, M. Julius, M. Dunbar, L. Johnson, M. Brady. '
3rd Sr. Class—Misses L. Kelly, S. Harris, C. Woodward, M. Walsh, K. Hutchinson, M. Pritchnrd, R. Nete-ler, P. Gaynor, R. Canoil, L. Henrotin, J. Kreigh, R. Klar, A. Byrne, J. Pierce, B. and K. Spencer, M. Bryson, K. Greenleaf, E. Mann, M. Poquette, A. Duncan, S. Hole, M. Carlin, M. Sheil, M. O’Connor, K. Casey, M. Gaynor, M. O’Mahony, B. Wilson, A. Harris, M. Cravens, I. Fisk.
1st Prep. Class—Misses M. and E. Thompson, C. Morgan, H. Russel, A. Cullen, S. Moran, M. Hutchinson, H. Parks, S. and I. Edes, M. McKay, N. McFarlane, B, Golsen, D. Cavenor, M. Ewing, E. Lange, M. Schulthies, M. and B. Siler.
2nd Prep. Class—Misess J. Riopelle, E. Edes, L. Gustine, M. Hooper, F. and G. Wells, L. Johnson, D. Allen, E. Pierce, N. King, N. McGrath, L. Kirchner, S. Cash.
3rd Prep. Class—Misses C. Maigrey, L. Bosch, L. Brownbridge, L. Schwass, S. Swally.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses M. Hoffman, M. Derby, C. Yates, A. Goewey, M. Hogan, E. Lappin, M. Redfield, A. Ewing and N. Mann.
1st Jr. Prep. Class—Misses K. Hudson, A. Peak. I. Mann, C. Hughes, E. Simpson, A. McGrath, M. Bell, M. Hughes and 0. Trull.
2nd Prep. Jr. Class—Misses Y. Mier, R. Goldsberry.
Conservatory of Music left over until next week...
560
THE SCHOLASTIC
"pALMER & VanWINKLE, Dealers in CONFECTIONERIES, Musical Instruments, Gold Pens, School and Miscellane ous Books, Stationery, Slates, Inks, Newspapers, Periodicals, Magazines, Etc. 8®“ Special attention paid to filling orders for Students. o24-tf	JRELAND & SON,	. proprietors op LIVERY AND FEED STABLE, No. 54, MICHIGAN St., - SOUTH BEND, IND., (Opposite the Dwight House). —o	 HACK BINE To and from all trains to the Dwight House or any part of the City, and to the College and St. Mary’s.	%o24-2m
	“THE NINE CENT STORE!” . 	0	 DROP IN AT “THE NINE CENT STORE!” .	AND See the Curiosities. No. 114 Miohigvn Stbeet, - South Bend, Indiana. %o24-tf.
p DUBAIL, * BARBER AND HAIEDBESSEB, 71 Washington St., -	-	- South Bend, Ind. Mr. Dubail spares no pains to make his work satisfactory He will be in attendance every Wednesday at the College-at 9 o’clodk A M., to attend to all students desiring his services.	o24-tf	
	THE OLD “RELIABLE” DWIGHT HOUSE, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA. "A TESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the AYL above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first-class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation. Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre D ome and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of home during their stay, JERRY KNIGHT, 1 CAPTAIN MILLS, j "opnetors. o24-tf
JJR. C. H. MIDDLETON, DENTIST, 109 Michigan Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana. ■	o24-tf	
J^DWARD BUYSEE, Dealer in WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELRY, Etc., 76 Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana. Repairing promptly done, and all work warranted.	J^-tf	
	POPULAR CLOTHING HOUSE! 	o	 M. LIVINGSTON & CO?, 94, Micliig’im St., South Bend, Ind., We invite the attention of the public to our large stock o FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING —AND— KURKISITINTGL GOODS, /“XUR stock is always large and carefully selected, and everything Xj you want in our Line will always be found bn our shelves. Our Full DRESS SUITS show an amount of pains-taking scaacely ever seen in Ready-Made or Custom Work. The Prices are MUCH LESS than the same material would cost if made to measure. Money is scarce but Clotlxing is Clieap. If you don’t believe it, drop in and see our Goods and Prices. Our NBereliant Tailoring Department is in fall blast. We have a full Stock of Clotlis, Cassi-meres and Vestings, and we turn out the best Fits. We sell for Cash, and our Prices are about One-Third Lower than any other house in the business.	o24-tf.
\ HANAUER, Nos. 32 & 34 Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana. Dealer in READY-MADE CLOTHING, GENTS’ BURNISHING GOODS, STAPLE AND FANCY DRY GOODS. All goods sold are guaranteed.	o24-tf	
JAMES BONNEY, PHOTOGRAPHER, Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., Over Goonley's Brug Store, South Bend, Indiana. Mr. Bonney will be at his old stand at the College every Wednesday morning at 8 o’clock. He has on hand photographsof the Professors of the University, members of the Col- ,	lege Societies, etc., etc., Which he is prepared to furnish to all desiring! -	o24-tf	
	ICE CREAM! SODA WATER! OYSTERS! For the Best Confectionery, go to ED. GILLEN’S RESTAURANT, 99 MAIN STREET, - -	- SOUTH SEND, INDIANA.
E. MAYR,	• Engraver, Watchmaker and Jeweller, 105 Michigan St., ... South Bend, Ind. Special attention given to FINE ENGRAVINGS, in Script and Old Hnglish, on Watches, Rings and Badges. decl-^tf.	MEALS AT ALL HOURS! Fruits, Nuts, Confectionery, and Choice Cigars, ALWAYS ON HAND! Fresh Candies Made Daily. Mo24-U