Edited by the Students-.
Labor omnia vincit.”
Vol. I.	NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY, MAY 23, 1868.	No. XXXVUI.
Editors of the Present Number:	,
John Rogers, J. 0. Keveney, A. B. White.
HpHE “SCHOLASTIC YEAR” is devoted to the Interests of A the Students, and will be issued weekly, at $2 50 per annum, payable in advance.	-
Students of the University of Notre Dame, and the Pupils of St. Mary’s Academy, may obtain the Scholastic Yeah at the reduced rate of $1 00 per annum.
Contributions must always be accompanied with name of author, otherwise no attention will be gven to them.
All business letters should be addressed to
W. R. SPALDING, Cor. Secretary,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Rev. A. LEMONNLER, S. S. C., Director.	•
During the Recreation Hours.
It may be interesting to parents to know how their sons spend their recreation. If they will lie kind enough to follow me in imagination, for a short time, I will endeavor to show them that the vast majority of the students work hard, not only in the study-hall, but also in the playground. During the first recreation—immediately after breakfast—no lengthy games are started, because the shortness of the time forbids it. But at the half hour’s suspension of studies, at half past* nine o’clock, each student hastens to enlist himself as one of the players in his favorite game. •The moment ranks are broken there is a rush to the ball-alley. See how they run! Ah 1 there’s one poor fellow who was almost on the alley; one moment more and he would have been one of the fortunate six, but in that moment he tripped and fell. His mishap is greeted with a shout of merry laughter by his companions. With- a bright smile on his face he picks himself up and volunteers to tally. The six boys who were first on the ground are the ones entitled to play; and as no more than that number can play on one alley, those who wish to have “ a hand in the ’ game,” must needs make haste. See how, when the sides have been chosen, the players take off their coats and enter with a zest into the spirit
of one of the best’ games in existence. Let us, now leave them “ all alone in their' glory,” and see what those athletic youths -are doing on the parallel bars, rings, turning polls, etc. Ah 1 yes, • they are jumping, and some of them are very hard to excel. Ha! ha 1 my dear fellow, I would advise you after this to alight on your feet when you jump. If you habituate yourself to fall always as you did last time, you will— “Take care 1 ' Watch out for your head, man 1” Oh! it’s ‘ nothing but a base ball, if it should strike you on the head it might hurt you bad; but we soon become accustomed to those things here. This reminds me that I have not shown you the way those who pay their homage to the goddess of ball and bat (if such a one there be) pass this morning recreation: Generally they scatter around the field, and play what is technically called “ Catch,” sometimes “ Ketch.” See, there are four playing it now. It is very simple. That one in ■ his shirt sleeves, with a straw hat on his head, throws the hard ball very swiftly to one neighbor here. He catches it on the “fly,” as you
-see.—Well done! Charleys that was a very good catch.—In this manner the ball passes around to the others. You may ask what good it does these boys to spend their precious time in this way. Permit me to say that they derive immense advantage from it. Besides the exercise in catching, throwing and chasing the ball, they gain that skill which is necessary to all who play base ball. Come with me on some recreation day and you will see that those four boys are the best players in their respective nines. Hence we must conclude that by this practice of playing “ Catch” they become skillful base ball players; and you know that base ball is one of the most healthful games in existence. To deny this would be high treason. But the bell is calling the students back to their studies. Coats are put on, balls and bats laid aside, and ranks formed. Do you-see those few delicate-looking young men, who
9
THE SCHOLASTIC TEAR.
appear to drag themselves along with the greatest difficulty. They do not smile like the others,' and, perhaps, they will not be able to study. They do not take any part in the athletic games, and the consequences are now apparent. Soon all the students are in the study-hall, and laboring with a will to acquire an education.
The recreation after dinner lasts one hour. During this time the Students amuse themselves in the same manner as before, with the exception that the base ball players, who have a longer period of time at their disposal and the . privilege of going into a larger field than at the other recreation, generally engage in that venerable game of ball called “ Pig-Tail.” During this • recreation, also, the lazy youths, before mentioned, generally take a walk in the large field. The half past three o’clock recreation is spent in the same manner as that after dinner.
After supper we have another half hour’s recreation. In my opinion, this is the most important recreation’of the day, and I think.that those students who, after eating a hearty supper, retire to bed without taking any exercise whatever, are slowly committing suicide. During this recreation the ball-alleys are thronged with eager players. I see that several of the Professors are playing. No doubt, the game is very interesting ; and, if it be your pleasure, we will draw a little nearer in order to witness it. How ? Yes, the alley is very rough, and this is a great detriment to a good game. It should be lengthened. Several loads of good clay thrown upon it, care-' fully raked,- leveled and rolled’ with the large roller, would make both alleys excellent, and thus benefit many who take an interest in the game. However, when we consider ajl the improvements made for our comfort, we may feel confident that our alleys will soon share in the general amelioration. Ah! the chimes warn me that it is time for the May-Devotion, and I must bid you farewell forthis evening.
---:----------— •
♦
A grim old Judge, after hearing a flowery, discourse from a pretentious young barrister, advised him to pluck out the feathers from the wings of his imagination and stick them in the tail of his judgment.
' One good turn deserves another, as the cat said when she saw the monkey tumbling down stairs.
Etymologies.
a
The /%unny P/mllow signing himself “Pangloss, i. e., All-tongue, (we would be curious to know how many tongues he has got, and how many of them he can contrive to use at the same time; perhaps his panglossian romance, “ The Classics Ventilated,” might, however, sufficiently enlighten us,) appears to have such a decided talent for finding out the most abstruse etymologies of words, even in “sombre forests—swampy and marshy—where no light ever penetrates,” as he has shown in an article in the last Number of . The Scholastic Year, entitled “ Derivations,” that -we cannot refrain from emulating him, by furnishing our young tyros in the study of Geography the etymologies of the most prominent countries and cities of the world. But we must premise that our derivations should be accepted with seriousness, and—we venture to say—with confidence.
America.—Named after the Italian navigator, Amerigo Vespucci, who, in 1499, discovered and described the coasts of the present State of Venezuela (South America).
The four following words are common to all ' the branches of the great Indo-European family t>f languages: North.—Direction, rule; because the polar or north star rules the other points of the heavens. South.—Sun, sunny. East.—Dawn, rise. West.—Decline, fall.
Europe.—(from the Semitic languages hereb} West,.evening; ’because Europe lay west .of East-’ ern Asia where the Semitic languages were spoken. '
Asia.—(from the Greek aos,' autos) Dawn or morning star: that country being east of Greece.
Africa.—(from the Latin aprica, corrupted into aphrica, exposed to the sun; or from the Greek a, priv. and phrike, chill; a land not chilly) Warm land; on account of the hot winds which blow from that country into. Greece and Italy.— Josephus (Jewish Antiq., lib. i. cap. xv) says that Africa is derived from Aph&r, grand-son of Abraham, who first went to settle in that country.
• Australia.—(from'the Greek auo, auein, to dry up, to kindle; Latin auster or ustus, scorching, .
. burning) Hot south winds.
Ireland.—(in Greek lerne, perhaps from ear, spring; in Latin ■Eiber'nia, tram hiems, water-, in Irish Erin,.Green Isle) Western land, or isle.
Scotland.—(from the Greek shotia, darkness) A land of gloom.
Iceland.—(from the Danish iislanE) Land of ice
/
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR. *	3
I
I
England.—Land of Engles or Angles—a tribe of people from Holstein, that went to settle, towards the end of the fifth century, in. the north and east of that country. •	.
France.—So called after the Eranks, a powerful tribe of Korthern Germany that invaded that territory towards the close of the fourth century. Frank means free, noble—from the Teutonic/reZ. In Latin Gallia, which may be derived from the Greek kallos, beautiful. ■
Germany.—From the Teutonic word Hermann, a warrior; on account of the ehrly warlike character of its people.' The Latin Alemannia is but a corruption of the same original word.
Spain.—-(from the Greek Iber—eria; the Latin Iberia} Land by the foaming or dashing water.
(to be continued.]
“	•' “Tyro.”
^Wliy the “iStg Belt” 'was Exempted from duties by Act of Congress*
That most brilliant of all newspapers, “ The Sun," of Baltimore, condescended some time ago to throw considerable dark light on the “Big Bell” at Notre Dame, which it said to have been made of coppers sent by some religious order in America, to the members of the same order in France, who kindly superintended the casting of the said bell, upon which §23- 00 having been received at the New York Custom Housp, as the toll on a bell of 14,000Ibs, application was made to Congress by the payers of the §23, and the money returned according to a vote which passed unanimously both Houses. The truth is that §2,300 were paid on the bell at the custom house, and this being done, a petition was filed by the authorities of Notre Dame for the return of the duties paid, and by act of Congress the said duties were graciously and unanimously refunded. For the good of those who wish to know, also for that of those who think that it “ wasn’t fair” to allow a private and sectarian institution to receive foreign goods free from duties, we will here state the following reasons why the large bell should not be taxed: 1st. The metal of which the bell is made is from this country, from the copper-mines of Michigan, and the duties were paid on it before it was sent to France. 2d. It is the completion of a chime which was .exempted from duties long ago.' 3d. The impor--tatipn of such'things tends to foster the progress of art in this country. 4th. The “ Big Bell” is an
ornament to the country. There is not in the United States a single bell as large, and not one so well-made, or with a sweeter tone. It is a very common thing for Congress to allow our cities to receive such objects free from duties, simply because they are ornaments; and why should not the University of Notre Dame, receive the like-privilege? Is it wrong in Congress to encourage private Educational Institutions, because our bright contemporary calls them sectarian, but at which, nevertheless, young men of all denominations are received? We do not bear to others any childish envy for the privileges and favors which they may receive, and we sincerely hope that American liberality shall never be subservient to the narrow mindedness of jealousy.
.	------«9------
* Ease Bali.
This invigorating’and health-giving game has, • within a few years, become the favorite of all young Americans. It first originated in England, though under a different name, and was, with many changes, introduced into this country, sometime previous to the year 1845, and christened base-ball. The first club of which we have any record, however, was the “ Knickerbocker,” of New York; it was organized in the above-mentioned year. Since that time the rules of the game have undergone many changes.; many new rules have been found necessary, and introduced,, so that, at the present day, it is an entirely different game from the one to which it owes its origin. -	-	.
. We are pleased to see this game receive such attention at Notre Dame; it is certainly the best exercise a student can take after spending many hours in the .study-hall; and we always find those who indulge in this -game, returning to their studies, after recreatibn hours, with bright rosy faces, and invigorated with new life, so that they are prepared to meet hard lessons and overcome them.
There have been but few match games played this year, which sribtracts greatly from the interests which would otherwise be taken in the game. This is probably owing to the rainy recreation days we have had this spring; but now the weather has become pleasant, and we hope to see -our base-ball clubs enter into the sport with a little more animation. Competition certainly makes it lively and interesting; and a match game, occasionally, would make our base-ball field a place of attraction.	-
1 r
V
4
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
- Hie Surveying Class.
"	“ One morn a Peri at the gate .
. Of Eden did triangulate.”
.	—Paradise and the Peri.
We are sorry to say that an error crept into our report on the distances lately measured by the Surveying Class, by which St. Mary’s Academy was' dislocated to the amount of about fifteen rods. To make all ‘ thO amends in our power, we not only give the true distance from Notre Dame to St. Mary’s, but also make the latter place a centre of radiation, and give the distances from it to the chief places of interest in the neighborhood:

Erom St. Mary’s Academy to—	« M.	F.	Ros.
Notre Dame University is (as corrected),	1	0	5
Missionary’s Home,	1	0	15
Chapel in the Graveyard.	1	1	25
Residence of Prof. Howard, ‘		3	15'
Court House, South Bend,	‘ .	‘ 2	0	25
Bailroad Depot,	2	5	20
St. Joseph’s Academy,	2	1	30
Northern Indiana College,	2	1.	.30
These distances,, of course, are to be considered			
as. measured in a perfectly straight line, and not round the road. Eor instance, the distance to St. Joseph’s Academy is put down the same as that to the Northern Indiana College, whereas the latter institution, if you go by the road, is at least a mile further than the former. St. Joseph’s Academy is full three miles, .by the road, from St. Mary’s.	' •	.
How TO FIND THE AREA OF AN UMBRELLAGBAM.
“Surely; he meansaparaZteZogram,” we think we hear a scion of the---- Geometry Class exclaims No we don’t, my dear young friend; ■we mean an umbrella^v&vcL, and it«.s just as much like an umbrella as an ungula is like a horse’s hoof, as you will learn when you get as far as the ungula. You don’t know all mathematics yet, by a considerable amount. An umbrellagram is a spherical polygon of any number of sides, equiangular and equilateral. When the number of sides is about twelve, it looks very like an umbrella indeed —that is, like the upper surface of an expanded umbrella. The handle of the umbrella may represent the diameter of the sphere. In order to measure an umbrellagram we must know one of the equal angles, the number of sides, and the radius of the sphere. Then you subtract the given angle from 180° and multiply the remainder by the number of sides. Subtract the product from
360° and divide by 90°. Multiply the quotient by the square of the radius of the sphere, and by 1.5708-J-. We leave the demonstration as a useful disciplinary exercise, for the student, but give one practical example just to show how. the rule works:	.
There is a certain umbrellagram on a sphere whose radius is three feet, the equal angles of the figure being 160° each, and the_ numb'er of sides 12, required the area.
Operation:	t	'
1SO°—160°=20°. 20°xl2=210°. 360°—240°=120°.
120°-:-90°==l}^. I^x3x3=12. 12xl.57OS-;-=lS.849Gsq.ft.
’ MATHEMATICUS.
Tlie Brass Band, t	*	-
I am now, at this moment, listening to the sweet music of our Brass Band.'Without intending to flatter; I .must say that I never heard better music. It is astonishing how the Band has-improved lately. Prof. O’Neill must possess some potent charm, whereby he instills into the minds of his pupils a thorough knowledge and love of music.' Those parents who have sons in the Band, may be assured that they will be. superabundantly repaid for the time they spend with Prof. O’Neill, by the pleasure and knowledge of music which they have received* The Band is now passing the College on its way to walk, and is playing the “ Happy Land of Chanaan.” May it have a pleasant walk.
* Professor J. O'Neill was-presented, since wo wrote the above, with a magnificent gold ring, as a token of esteem-from the members of the Band.	'	•
11
I
The United Scientific Association.
This Society was formed on the 12th inst., for the furtherance of scientific objects.	.
The Constitution .was approved by the Rev. President and Vice-President of the University on the 18th inst., and ratified by their signatures.
As the qualifications for membership in this Society restrict it to students of the very highest grade, it has not been deemed necessary to pub- • lish a fuller account of it. ■	'
By order of the director, ■ H. M. D.

The University of Notre Dame gratefully acknowledge, the generous action of Hon. Schuyler Colfax in reference to the exemption from duty, on the big bell, mentioned elsewhere in the columns of The Scholastic Yeah. ’	■ '
f
KJ


THE SCHOLASTIC. YEAR. ‘	.	5
First Communion at Notre Dame.
Ascension day, May 21st, instant, being a festival of obligation, was celebrated with all the pomp and solemnity becoming the occasion. It being moreover the First Communion day of many of our young friends, the beauty of the feast was greatly enhanced by this never-to-be-forgotten ceremony. For two days'previous to the Great Day, the First Communicants, already well prepared and instructed,..had been making a retreat in the hallowed grove and amidst the sanctuaries and shrines of St., Joseph’s Novitiate, under the direction of Reverend D. J. Spillard, and, when the morning of Ascension arose, it seemed to be fraught with unusual heavenly blessings.' The sun never appeared brighter nor the air calmer than on that glorious morning, which "was to be the dearest of all to twenty or more of the students of Notre Dame. Their names were:	-
E. Haydel, D. Cooney, W. Hendricks, R. Cure, J. Chandonai, S. Beaubien, G. Bader, L. Hilsende-gen, C. Enis, J. Connor, Geo. Kurt, Geo. Tobin J. Campbell, C. O’Neil, J. Rumley, Jas. Dinnen, J. Ogle, M. Daly, F. Wicker, W. Wallace and Wm. Manning.	’
Many of the parents of the young communicants attended the ceremony, which was rendered more touching yet by the beautiful and heartfelt sermon of the Mass. The Acts were recited with great, .sentiments of piety by those who were chosen for that purpose, and we need scarcely mention how beautiful and edifying were the countenances of the youth, sas they knelt at the Holy Table.
During the time that Communion was given to them, the bells of the chime and the large bell sent up to heaven joyous peals of harmony; we must declare that nothing on earth could give-more solemnity to the moment than those mighty Voices, which took on themselves, as it were, the duty of glorifying God aloud, .whilst so many persons were praising Him in their hearts.
The music at Mass, from, the choir and the brass band, was very beautiful; but at Vespers the music was perfectly grand, and the thanks of all are justly due to the members of the choir and of the -.band, and to their able Professors, M. Girac and J. O’Neill. .
Ascension day vyll long remain engraved in the remembrance of the students of Notre Dame.
Departure of Very Keverend Father .	'	. Provincial!.	.
• «
Very Rev. E. Sorin, Provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross in the United States, left Notre Dame on the seventeenth instant in order to repair to Rome, where, he is called by the General Superior, to attend a'General'Council of the Congregation. We need not say that although our best wishes accompany our beloved Father on his long journey, it is however with feelings of deep regret that we see him gone from our midst. If we have not been able to give our esteemed Father the tokens of gratitude which we expected time would permit us to give him before his departure, (and, moreover, we had to yield him to St. Mary’s kind hospitality,) we hope, on his return, to greet him with a reception worthy of our respect and esteem. Meanwhile the good wishes and prayers of the students of Notre Dame, and of the large community which he has founded here, will earnestly implore the protection of God and of the Blessed Virgin upon our dear Father and all his works. May he return safely and promptly to his beloved home.	j '	.
Classes of Notre Dame, 1867-68, * .
One who looks at the Catalogue of our beautiful University, and especially at that page of it which bears the title of Course of Studies, will come to this conclusion: that none, however young, heed be afraid of not finding classes to suit *--hiin here, and none, -however proficient, need be afraid of having nothing to acquire by a stay at Notre Dame.	'
For the information of our readers we will give a list of the branches of studies taught’at Notre -Dame during the scholastic year, the number of the classes pertaining to each branch, and the average number of students in those various classes. -
We will begin by the lowest branches; or elementary studies, which prepare the student for the Collegiate Courses.:	'	•*
Reading, 5 classes, average number of students 150; Orthography, 5 classes, 200; Penmanship, 3.classes, 300; Geography, 3 classes, 50; Arithmetic, 11 classes, 300; Book-keeping, three classes, number’of students, 100; Christian Doctrine, 3. classes, 190; Grammar, 8 classes, 170; Algebra,
6	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
4 classes, 80 ; Geometry, 2 classes, 25 ; Spherical-Trigonometry, 1 class, 6; Calculus, 1 class, 6; Surveying, L class, 10; Civil Engineering, 1 class, 6; Astronomy, 1 class, 7; Natural Philosophy, 1 class, 8; Chemistry, 1 class, 8; Botany, 2 classes, 15 ; Geology, 1 class, 10; Mineralogy, 1 class, 10; Anatomy, Surgery and Physiology, 1 class, 6; Drawing, 2 classes, 25 ; Composition, 1 class, 20; Rhetoric, 2 classes, 30; Logic, 1 class, 10; Mental Philosophy, i class, ,1; Greek, 5 classes, 20; Latin, 7 classes, 70; French, 3 classes, 30; German, 7 classes, 100; Vocal Music, 3 classes,-30. Instrumental Music : Piano, 45 . students ; Violin, 35; Flute, 10; Guitar, 10; Brass Band, 30; Choir, 25.	•
There are, moreover, in the University, many • Literary Societies, whose object is the promotion of-the intellectual attainments of ,the,students who belong to the higher classes.	.
$ The St. Aloysius Philodemic Society, whose origin dates back 18 years, possesses' a valuable library of over 300 select volumes. Its exe’rcises comprehend Debates, Essays and Declamations;
■ a Mock Court is also established in this Society, and a paper called The Tico-Penny Gazette is.published weekly by ’some of its members. The number of members is twenty..
The St. Edward Literary Association, estab-, lished in 1867, pursues the same object as the St. Aloysius; has a good library and about thirty • members. .	« - ’	-
The Thespian Society (extinct since "a month), whose object was the cultivation of the Dramatic Art and the study of Elocution.	" , .
The St. Cecilia Philomathean Society, one of the oldest and best at Notre Dame, is both a. Debating and a Dramatic Society; possesses a good library, and has twenty-five members, the elite of the Junior Department. This Society is not sur-
; passed.by any in the Dramatic Art, and can boast • of giving the tone to the College stage at large.
Its plays ’are in manuscript, but will soon be published.	’ '
■ The Euglossi’an Society, whose object is the study- and practice of Elocution, was established this year and has since progressed rapidly; it numbers twenty members. .	..
The Philharmonic Society, whose object is the
’ cultivation of Vocal Music, has always been .a fa-sorite Society and has twenty members.
. The United Scientifice Association, formed lately, and justly deserving an illustrious future.
We might continue our list by speaking of the ‘ Notre Dame Brass Band and of the Choir, * *but
our readers are so familiar with the above named that we deem it unnecessary to speak of them here. We likewise omit the Orchestra, whose music however is granted to be unsurpassed. _
Not to lengthen these observations, we will reserve, for another occasion, the notes which we have taken on our religious societies, and add, whilst we finish, that the labor entailed' on the faculty of Notre Dame is indeed immense, but that it is wqII repaid by the serious application of the students, and that nowhere better than here, is the greatness and extent of the work simplified and reduced to an easy comprehension by the system which directs it. •	•
Social
. The first regular meeting of the club was held Wednesday, April 22d. The meeting was called to order by the director,-John R. Dinnen; the term of the previous officers having expired, the Club proceeded to the-election, with the following result:	•
Director,—John R.'Dinnen.
Vibe-President,—W. B. Smith.
Secretary,—James O’Reilly. •	- '
Treasurer,—M. S. Ryan.
- The boat has been refitted at a cost of $10, and the club are now enjoying themselves. They are always rready to render assistance to the “ Tub” whenever their services may be required. We 'would like to see another' rowing-boat on the lake, so as to have some exciting races^
. James O’Reilly, Sec.
GORRESP ONDEN CE.
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY.'
' TABLES OF HONOR. _
• Senior Department—Misses Florence Alspaugh, L. and L. Tong, Mary Carraher, Mary. Oephtering, ■L. Chouteau, Virginia Brown, Rose. Gittings, Harriet Craul, J. Slurray, Mary Morrill, Ophelia Brady.
Junior Department.—Misses H. Neil, M. Shetland, Amelia Boyles, L. McKenney, L. Jones, A. Woods, N. Niel, Anna Booles, Anna Clark, C. North, M. O’Meara, Agnes Longley. •
1
I

THE SCHOLASTIC TEAR. .	7
HONORABLE MENTION.
Graduating Class.—Misses L. and L. Plimpton, * Mary Tripp, H. Brooks, Blanche 'Walton, J. Schutt, M. Forrester, K. Doran.	.
First Senior Class.—Misses K. Livingston, A. Ewing, K. Cunnea, Laura Lewis, Emma Longs-dorf, Eunice Crouch, C. Wolfe, Augusta Pool.
Second Senior Class.—Misses Agnes Mulhall, F. North, Iola Conway, Anastasia Darcy, L. McMan- * man, M. Walton, Frances Gittings, Emma Conan, Christina Thompson, Sarah Gleeson, N. Taber, K. Jarvis, Teresa Stapleton, Emma Carr, B. Millington, E. Howard, M.' Noel. ’
Taird Senior Class.—Misses Lorena Rettig, A. Sissons, Josephine Greishop, K. Carpenter, Leon-ena and Louisa Leoni, Clara Foote, L. Cummerford,. L. Bicknell, N. Simms, K. Conor, E. Linds-day, Rose Joslin, Nora ’ Sherburn, M. Toberty, Julia Walker, E. Longwell.
First Intermediate Class.—Misses E. Cooney, M Simms, A. Wiley, Josephine Lonergan, Julia Gittings, M. Hally, M. Gordon, Clara Casteeter, B. Moriarty.	•	.
Second Intermediate Class.—Misses M. Walker, ’ Helen Sprochnle. -	.
First Junior Class.—Misses Mary Sissons, Ada-laide Metzger, Mary Clare, Anna Garrity. -
First Communion at Saint Mary’s. .
On Sunday morning the ITfhinst., nine of the young ladies experienced the greatest happiness, for,upon that day they received, for the first time, the Holy Communion. Our Blessed Redeemer ’ has said in. the Gospel according to • St. John, ’ chapter sixth, “I am the living bread which came down from heaven. If any man eat of this bread he shall live forever, and the bread that I will give is My flesh for the life of the world.” '
Napoleon Bonaparte was once asked which was the happiest day of his life-. Every one expected that he would name that day upon which he had achieved some great conquest. He waited , for a moment. No doubt the entire panorama of . his wonderful life, his victories, his great exalta. tiqn, past in review before the eye of his memory.
But what was his reply-? ’He had forgotten Ar-cole; the echo of clanging arms at Marengo •floated off and diec^away on the tide of reminis' cence; Austerlitz was no'more remembered. The
greatest conqueror of modern ages, the idolized hero of unnumbered battles, went back to a point of time before the frightful revolution, before religion and innocence had been trampled under foot by anarchy and infidelity: went back to a period prior to that, when his ingratitude had led him to defy .the authority of the-Holy Father. There he rested. There he found the oasis in the desert of his ambition. “ The happiest day of my life," he said, “was that of my First Communion.”
The following are the names of the First Communicants :
- Misses Katie Conor, Lily Chouteau, Rose and Frances Gittings, Emma Carr, Virginia Brown, Maggie O’Meara, Mary Clark, Maggie Walker.
Very Rev. Father Provincial addressed .these children in language that they will never forget. He said that he regarded it as providential that he had been detained to assist at such an occas-. ion—h(?alluded to his immediate departure for Rome—and said that he rejoiced to bear away with him the impression of the sweetest vision “that the human eye can rest upon. A group of children clothed in white, the symbol of purity, white crowns, emblematic of their royal inheritance in heaven of which they were that day to receive the first glorious assurance: children in the fresh morning of life, and with consciences doubly purified by the’ir careful preparation for the Sacrament • of Penance, receiving their First Communion. He applied the beautiful Gospel of the day especially to t hem, and, remarking their number, said that they represented the nine choirs of angels, whose companions they had now become in a most emphatic manner, and whose "virtues- and purity they, had pledged themselves to emulate.	.	*	-
At vespers four of the First Communicants, Misses L. Chouteau, Emma Carr, Virginia Brown and Frances Gittings, together with Miss Mary Oechtering, received the badge of aspirants to the Association of Children of Mary.- The* nine also -made a formal renewal of their baptismal vows, before the altar, thus forming a link in the chain of lovely views -to accompany Very Rev. Fatheron his long voyage. The “Itinerary,” or payers for a journey, were read publicly, all joining with fervor in- the requests they made . for the happy progress and safe return of one whom all so deeply esteem and revere. The young ladies who made their first Communion had the honor of breakfasting with the Very Rev. Father. At dinner they were seated at the Table
• of Honor, out of consideration for the beautiful

g	. THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
and. impressive act they had just performed, and. the recollection of which will stand forth as the cherished and blissful event of their lives.
Leave-Taking.
Saturday evening the Graduating Class made a parting visit to Very Rev.Father Provincial, baton Sunday evening there was a formal leave-taking in the Study-Hall. Addresses were read from both departments, and every' one accompanied him as he passed out to the carriage which was to convey him to the depot. His eloquent instructions and sincere interest in the advancement of every member of the Academy, has so won the esteem' of the children, that all regret even his temporary absence.	■
St. Mary’s, May 18th, 1868.
—----------
A Thought. *
It was in the times before-steam and hot-air registers were so common, that I sat by my fire which was kindling in the grate. Slowly and with smothered blaze it burned, until my room' became dark with the smoke arising from the repressed flames. Tears came to my eyes without any appeal to the internal fountain of tears, while walls and drapery were threatened with • an unseemly deepening of color. -
“ Open the doors,..that this smoke may escape!” I cried, and presto! every door connecting mine with the adjoining apartments swung backwards upon its hinges. By this time the flames bad grown swift and strong, and the unpleasant’-provocative of the lachrymal secretion ascended without furth’ef parley into its legitimate channel ; but the smoke first driven down from the flue, continued to float in dense blue wreaths, not alone in my own, but in the apartments adjoining, while the senses were scarcely conscious of any change in the atmosphere, and the ' walls and hangings of those rooms were absorbing the. dark particles, without relieving my own. “ The windows I the outside doors 1 let us have .communication with the open air !’4 and in a 'moment the soft morning breeze swept gently through, scattering the offensive’vapor, without burdening her soft wings with the faintest trace of- impurity, while the air within partook of the light and freshness of the free air outside. ■	•
. Thus, thought I, it is with.our misfortunes..
When in the spirit of blame and complaint we communicate them to others, like the ventilation of my room at the expense of those adjacent, they only serve to cloud the atmosphere of another’s joys, without affording actual relief to ourselves: but when, in charity and humility, we open our souls to the ingress of the'purer air of heaven, and breathe into the Heart of Divine Wisdom the burden of our anguish, Infinite-Love, like the soft morning zephyr, will bear the dark weight from our spirits, and infuse into our souls the tranquillity and joy of that better world, where angels behold the requirements of our spiritual growth, the hecessity and wisdom of our earthly sufferings. •	. w ’
• St. Mary’s, May 10th, 1868.
.   ——— --------- •
St. Angela’s Academy, SEorris, III.
It seems lately as if St. Angela’s was entirely forgotten in-the prized columns of The Scholastic Year, not being aware, I presume, of the lovely aspect its surroundings present on this beautiful May-day. Recent visitors have called it charming—the little gem of Illinois,—and say that May-eve was piously and pleasantly spent in. its fair abode, with the statue of the Good Mother most tastefully arranged, the procession, opening sermon and unequaled singing, all in due order and highly impressive; supper something extra, gliding forms in fancy* costumes entering the recreation-room, where the seasonable hour of ten P. M. closed the gay dance and festive scene. The new addition promises to make St. Angela’s buildings as large again by the ‘end of this queen-month,- when another entertainment on.the feast of its hallowed patron • is granted to gladden its new halls. The intel-' lectual messenger from Notre Dame will please remember our St. Mary’s western nursery, and shade this little violet ’neath the mantle of her full grown sister. ■ '	.
' Mollie Grady, at St. Angela’s.
A witty rogue, when asked how he got out of prison, replied—“I got out of my cell by ingenuity, ran up stairs with agility, crawled put of the back window in secrecy, slid down the lightning rod with rapidity, -walked out of town with dignity, and am now basking in the sunshine of liberty I’’	■