The Scholastic
PIVOTED TO THE
pTUDENTS.
Volume VII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 13, 1873.
Number 16.
The Sixteenth Annual St. Cecilia Festival.
fX The St. Cecilia Society has becjome classic with age, but the Cecilians themselves remain-.romantic and ever young.
BB	Herein we may perceive the rationale of the recent celebra-
tion: the past glory of the Society overshadows the most W	heroic efforts of its youthful associates; we remember what
its long trained geniuses have done, and, unthinking, we HH expect the same excellence from the young recruits who have just joined its ranks. Thus does the past tyrannize ■ I	over the present; so does the old man fancy that the he-.
J I	roes of his youth and the worthies of ancient days are more
I | excellent than those of the present time. Removing this ; £ unfair prejudice -roar our mind, I think w.e. shall have no > difficulty in concluding that the recent entertainment was in every way worthy of the hopeful youths, most of whom appeared for the first time upon the stage.
You’d scarce expect boys of their age to speak in public on the stage, or if they chance to fall below Berdel and S.
> Kelley, Dodge & Co., don’t view them with tooi-sharp an -eye, they’ll do much better by and by. But there are some who, as this critic thinks, do not need even this indulgence. General Watson was all that could be wished; and so was Phineas, a splendid comic fellow; pity he had not more to say and do; and then Mr. Martin, Tightfist and Angelo were very well personated, only that we could not-forget how very well these same parts were once rendered on that stage. But all these, Frederick included, will do much better, as they promised, next May. Whatever difference"of opinion may exist concerning the “Prodigal,” there is but one voice as to the excellence of the other parts of the prA gramme. Mr. Breen’s Salutatory was delivered in capital style. The same may be said of the English, German and Spanish addresses; the latter was indeed admirable, and well deserved its encore. Mr. Bafea was the prince of the evening. It seems a pity that'this is the second time that the French address has been marred this year. The English address should, of course be first in excellence, but after this it would seem that, at’ Notre Dame, the French should be a perfect specimen, in composition and deliv-< ery, of that beautiful language of salutation and compliment.
Dickens has written a great deal of poor stuff, as time will tell, but he has said one good thing: Be content to be ignorant of a great many things that you may know a few. I am therefore bold to be known as a mere natural in music, and yet" I do know, even if I were not told so by everybody, that the music on this evening was exceedingly good. Of the band we expected good music, and we were not disappointed ; but the music of the orchestra was a complete surprise. That fine, strong, even union of .-many instruments has not before been heard at Notre Dame. If such excellence has been attained in three months, we may
promise ourselves many an evening of exquisite .pleasure between December and June.	“T '	.
The “linked sweetness” of Prof. Broder’s.closing words was such as has often flowed from.his eloquent lips at Notre Dame. His earnest appeals to duty, hisjnanly words-of encouragement, awakened the spirit of- heroic endeaVor in his youthful audience; while his ready command of. choice English, his admirable selection and arrangement' of words and phrases, charmed alike the ear' of young and old. Thus, with music and eloquence, closed the beautiful ’
festival of St. Cecilia.
.. N.
ADDRESS TO VERY REV. E. SORIN, Cl S. C., Superior General of the Order of the Holy Cross,
From the St. Cecilians, December 2nd, 1873.
The following address was read by Master-W. Meyers:- ' Very Rev. Father General: Everyreasonprompts. us to address you on this beautiful festival, for there seems to be every reason why yoiisboulAbe" pleased to hear us. First, we are students-of-Notre. Dame; and how large a place the students occupy-in your thoughts is very evident Secondly, we are Juniors; and wehave always- beent.un-der the pleasing impression—we trust- it is mo delvson^-’ -that there is a soft spot in your.heart for-the Jufiiors. Thirdly,.we '.are Bt. Cecilians; and we—that is, ourances- " tors—have actually heard you say—so runs the tradition— that we are the flower ;’of the Junior Department	you-
must think us the blossom. of:NotreDame;that.'is,:the pink of perfection. ' Hence we.;bloont before you on- this pleasant winter evening, blushing vermeil red in presence of the whitening snows of .-hale December. . Hale and hearty with the youth and: strength, of .the Christmas month may be that form that bears its noble.crown of white, emblem of a pure, an active and a .well-spent life. ; ~ ' .-May our beautiful Patroness look down on -you this even--ing and aid in giving you a youthful and beautiful old age; -may she also look upon; us with her blessing, on all our.fel- • low-students, on Notre Dame, on our dear country, and on our blessed mother the Church, now passing through one of her most glorious periods of suffering. .So pray the St. Cecilians to St. Cecilia, and so pray we for our blessed father who is so well aiding the work.of.Heaven in our land and for us.
Your beloved children,	...
The St. Cecilians.
Prof. Broder’s Remarks. .
At the dose of the evening,Prof. Paul Broder, of Beloit, Wisconsin, was called upon to address the audience, and he made substantially the following remarks;
On occasions like this, when called upon' for remarks I make them, and nearly always at considerable length."
•I
122
THE SCHOLASTIC.
But to-night I shall be 'unusually brief—and for this you. have reason to be exceedingly thankful. It is an old and oft-repfeated saying of mine that costly articles are generally wrapped up in little parcels.. A dime in size is smaller than a cent, but in value ten times larger. A like package of silk may be vastly more valuable than a large pile of sheeting. Quality it is, rather than quantity, that gives value to the mercbandise of men, as motive is the proper measure of the merit of their deeds. A little cistern a few feet deep and a few wide is capacious enough to contain water sufficient to be diffused into a cloud whose huge proportions, overhanging, might embrace a considerable portion of Notre Dame. A little jet of steam sent out from the warm heart of a locomotive and rushing.rapidly through its veins into a small and narrow cylinder, acquires by compression there a propelling power sufficient to whirl with race-horse speed a long train of heavily-laden cars over the rails of one of our iron bighwaj s.. But when that little jet of steam, so powerful when confined to its own little sphere of action, shakes off its compressure and leaves its limits, when freed from restraint it expands and spreads itsdfin. the open air, it becomes a spent force and passes away in misty vapor. And here the thought, without mucu seeking, suggests itself, that he who at a time and place like this is requested to say something, resembles that little jet Of steam at least in this; that he should confine himself to just one struggling, energetic and gushing effort. When he expands into the pretentions and proportions of a speechmaker, when he spreads himsdf on outside objects, he must necessarily do so at a sacrifice of strength; and becoming weak and watery in the light and heat of the shining sun of intelligence, he naturally evaporates, perhaps not into misty vapor, most likely into a gorgeous cloud of gaseous glory.
And here allow me for a moment to.,-call your attention to an inference easily drawn from the preceding,—through-out all the realms of nature and all the realities of life, this great truth stands, that condensation is-the grand,process by which power is evolved. In. looking out upon flower and fruit, rock and river, .anything in or upon the earth beneath us, or visible in the heavens above us, we find these other equally important and evident truths, that na. ture’s processes producing permanency are all-gradual aud slow but unceasing, and that everything reaches forward to the perfection of its being and best fulfils its-mission by yielding a full and ready obedience to all the requirements of the laws pertaining to its existence. Concentration and continuity of efforts well-directed are the essential and winning prerequisites of success. Life is too short, and its pursuits too many, and man’s faculties too few and frail, and competition too great, for anyone to become pre-eminently distinguished in everything, for anyone to be a “ prodigal,’’ even a “prodigal student,” “prodigal ” in wasting time and effort “ plowing furrows in the sand,” from which no harvest can be reaped except that bitter one of heart-made chagrin and sorrow that sprouts and grows from a consciousness of golden opportunities neglected and talents of-much prom-, ise left unimproved, or wasted in wickedness, or thrown away in trivialities of no importance or worse. “ How blessings brighten as they take their flight” is an exclamation that proceeds from a sad realization of an ignorance perhaps criminal because voluntary, or a careless or culpable inactivity.	-
This is a fast age, and he who leads must be fleet of foot and throw away all unnecessary burdens. He who now-a-
days would be prominently successful in any pursuit must be a sort of a worshipper of success in that pursuit, a faithful and accordingly a practical and punctual devotee at its shrine. No lingering laggard loitering lazily on the way can be first or even second in anything. Quaint and curious Carlyle has said: “The race of life has become intense, the runners are treading on each other’s heels; woe be to" him who stops to tie his shoe-string.” Since Carlyle penned this, times have changed wonderfully and the race of life . has become more intense, so intense indeed that he who in ' it now would not be trampled under foot should wear shoes ~ with elastic in and not shoe-strings, or else he should have boots that are so fashioned to his feet as to fit and at the .. same time such as to go on with a jerk and off with a kick;
Do you wish success in any praiseworthy undertaking? ' Then, wake up, and, concentrating your efforts, “go for it” in earnest, remembering that what you plan is not ot so much importance as what you perform, that what you desire is not of so much consequence as what yon do. Good resolutions are worthy of admiration, but after all of what avail are they unless through noble actions they bear in beauty the blossoms and fruits of blessed deeds ?
The world is generally, if not always, ready to accept merit at par, and to the aspiring it says—Do something worthy of reward, if you wish reward. Do something worthy of honor, if you would be honored. Ingratitude is a negative and zero is an icy nothing; bolh are alike. There' is something Godlike in man, and so in the heart? of his highest nature there -blooms the divine principle of recognizing and rewarding merit and of giving “ honor to whom honor is due.” As in your drama “ the Prodigal reformed ” and “triumphant” received promotion and public honor for distinguished and heroic services faithfully and unselfishly rendered, so in real human life those who merit it generally hear the welcome words—“ Deserving one, go up higher.” And even if in the race of life the prize be not procured, what of it, since	.
“In the race, and not the prize, Glory’s true distinction lies.?’	.
In your drama the characters-you assumed have been well personified. Among the members of the St. Ceeilia Society in former years there were many who were fully up to the average of professional actors and a few who on this stage shone with the splendor of “stars.” But they" had the benefit of a long experience, and I am told that this is your first appearance “in public, on the stage.” For the present, tben,your starry twinkling should be satisfactory. Be patient and persevering in practice, constantly aud carefully attentive to the instructions.and suggestions of your Professors. “Sic itur ad astra."
You have given expression to many beautiful and touching sentiments. An idea in your Epilogue I noticed particularly because it recalled to mind a similar one which in my academic days I.met in Horace, and which I spread out into what I then called poetry. You say in your Epilogue:
“ If what all say is true, then this is sure ,. . Impressions made in youth, must needs endure.”
I said in my boyish brilliancy:
As Horace sang in days of old, A cask wiU long the tincture hold (If that which first is in it placed. And; thus the child if onward traced
. Tinctures the man; for loss or gain	- -
. The. tinctured man will long retain

THE SC H O L A S TIC
123
The essance of the child. We know Though basswood sprouts may upward grow And ‘ toss their giant arm aloft ’ Like sturdy oaks, that still-they’re soft Huge basswood trees, not oaks. Ah, no! From basswood sprouts oaks never grow.
If then it is a fact, and fact it is, that acorns alone bud into oaks, that “ impressions made in youth must needs endure,” how hopeless is the expectancy that high-souled, honorable men will be the result of a misspent youth with morals corrupted, hearts hardened and depraved by . evil associations, minds, disciplined .in deception and deceit! If “impressions made in youth must needs endure," how fortunate are you in being placed in an institution like this while yet the blessings of youth are resting on your brows; an institution in which you breathe an atmosphere of purity and piety, situated aloof from the dissipation of cities, untempted by the knavish tricks and demoralizing decoys of “ treacherous Tightfist,” such as portrayed in your play; an institution in which you have the tender care of men whose sole object is to do good, men of great learning and ability, acquired through long years of serious study; an institution that deservedly stands in the-front rank of educational establishments in this country. So conduct yourselves here, so live .that when you leave here to “ act your parts ” in-the world outside, among the men and women “of the.earth earthy,” your deeds may be ‘-‘the good fruit of agood tree and the sweet fragrance of a genuine flower.”
?Tis true we all may pass through life With scarce one Christian thought, one strife, One effort noble, with a heart ..
Dead with the life-blood that should start. Bounding and leaping through our veins ....
’ With indignation when the gains Of Wrong and Sin are greater made By us ourselves, because afraid' To boldly battle for the Right ’Gainst things displeasing to God’s sight. ’Tis also true that we may go Angels through life, and always show A saintly spirit, always be
True heroes in humility.	•	.	•
Where’er you are, wbate’er your lot, Let this plain truth be ne’er forgot—
Our very gain oft seems our loss, His Kingdom Christ gained on the Cross;
■ Then, nobly act, my dear young friend, And God will bless you to the end.
Correspondence.
St Joseph’s Church, East South Bend, Indiana.
Mr. Editor :—There is in the last number of the Scholastic an article that speaks of the improvement in your choir at Notre Dame. I read it with great pleasure and delight, for I am a great lover of church music. I think that next to the grand and imposing ceremonies of Holy Mass, and a short practical sermon, there is nothing so likely to draw and attach our young Catholic generation to the church and to religion as good singing.
Would one of your devoted friends be asking too much of you to have these few lines inserted in the columns of your widely-circulated journal ? - The choir of this parish is composed chiefly of young ladies, who belong to a society designated by the beautiful name of “ The Children of
Mary.” The number of those that sing in the choir is about twenty. The chant approved and encouraged by the Church is sung by them. Miss Mary Higgins plays the organ and directs the choir, assisted by the Rev. Pastor. They sing Mass remarkably well; and Vespers, I may say,is sung'to perfection, for they are well trained, practicing twice a week. They sing the proper Psalms, hymns and antiphons of each Vespers. At early Mass on Sundays and feasts of devotion they sing English hymns and the chants of the Church, in which they are joined by the. children of the parish school. What I admire in it is that.it draws and attaches air the young people to the church. Vespers, more especially, is not a burden, but a pleasure to them; they feel interested in the singing, and take an active part , in it. They deem their presence necessary in church, attend regularly, and by their good example induce others _ to attend. The fact of the matter is, I never saw Vespers better attended by the young people in any parish than I do here. One great advantage of such a choir is that it is permanent; it does not depend on one or two soloists, ’ whose absence, from sickness or other cause, would break' up the choir.	_ . .
I am not at all ignorant of the fact, that many, even Catholics, find fault with this chant: it is too monotonous they say; too old,—behind the age. Their complaints arise from, the fact that they never heard it sung well. There • is a wide difference between a musical composition and its execution; even the masterpieces; of .a. Mozart .or i a Haydn would not and could not attract any attention;were they imperfectly executed. This chant.,.moreover, is not destined to appeal to the senses but inspire the heart with devotion; to create a loy.e for religion and holy things. Is there anything more sublime than the “ Te Deum" when • well sung by a large number of male voices? What is more solemn than the “Pange lingua" when well sung, at the procession on Corpus Christi? Who is not edified on hearing the Preface sung well? Even in giving vent to feelings of sadness and grief, there is nothing that can excel or come up to the Requiem, and Libera. Besides, all this, it is not destined for the few, but for all; all who wish can join in with the rest and make congregational singing. Where it is sung well, the people like it, as experience shows. I remember-to have heard about two hundred and ten seminarians in the Petite Seminaire at Montigny, near Metz, in France, and I am sure that any Catholic who is imbued with the spirit of his holy religion would be more edified and inspired with devotion to hear them than 'to-listen to some of those operatic pieces, more fit for the stage than for the sanctuary, performed income’of our. churches. It would also be well for those that have such a repugnance to this chant to call to mind that it is not so very easy a matter to sing it well. Great patience on the part of the teacher and a great deal of practice on the part of those'that sing ere required. I would therefore highly encourage the idea of having both our boys and our girls taught how to sing this chant, to form permanent choirs, Catholic-choirs, choirs in which every member of the parish may be able to take an active part.
A Member of this Parish.
Steel bars have been advocated in place of bells for churches and similar purposes. They produce a pure, distinct and melodious sound, and are said to be cheaper, lighter, andnot so liable to crack as bells. .
124	THE SCHOLASTIC.
Thp Scholastic,
Published every Week during Term Time, at . NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
AH communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS: Oneyear....'.................... $1 oo
Single copies (Sets.) of the publication can be obtained at theJStu-dents'OSSce. -■	.
As we go to press we receive a communicatioa from “Sixty,” which, with several articles crowded out this week, will appear next week.
We have received too late for publication this week, from the Novitiate, a communication in which the writer states that two umbrellas pertaining to the denizens of that secluded retreat have been taken feloniously, or at least surreptitiously, by some person or persons in the College, much to the discomfort and injury of ihe lawful owne;s.
Ou December 10th Marshal Bazalne was found guilty of the Charge of the capitulation of Metz and of the army in open field without doing all that was prescribed by honor and duty to avoid surrender, and unanimously condemned to death, and to be degraded from his' rank previous to his execution. All the members of the court signed an appeal for mercy. This sentence was commuted to twenty years seclusion.	_ _
Publications.	'
The Acts of the Martyrs. By J. A.’ M. Fa st re, 8. J. Third Series. ■ No. 5 of the “ Messenger Series.” Philadelphia : Peter F. Cunningham and Son, 29 South Tenth Street. .. ’
We have no recollection of reading the firs’ and second series' ofthe “Acts of the Martyrs,” bit if they are equal to the third series before us we cm recommend them highly, as we do the book before us. The Messrs. Cim-ninghafn, father and’son, have done their part well, and gbt the work but in fine typographical dress, on good'pa per. As for the subject-matter of the book, there is no subject that ought to interest a Christian reader more than the Acts, the glorious deeds, of his forefathers; and he has them here, taken from authentic sources, and presented in a style whose simplicity, al vays pleasing, becomes at times sublime. :	.
’ The present series consists of the Acts of St Tarachus and his companions; SS. Theodora and Didymus; St. Blasius and his companions; St. Eulalia; St. Clement; St. Susanna; SS. Faustinus and St. Jovita; St. Polyeuctus.
Christmas Holidays.
The departure of the students for home will take.place Tuesday, 23d inst Classes will continue to be taught till the 21st. The programme for those spending the Holidays here will be made known in due time.
The return to the College should be no later than the 3d of January. Students returning later than the 3d, without excellent reasons for it and explanatory letters from home, will forfeit their claims to the annual rewards for conduct. The Christmas Holidays, which necessitate a suspension of
studies for ten days, are decidedly a great detriment to the work of the session, and may be pronounced a serious evil to all concerned.	.
Splendid Prize for Telegraphy.
It gives us great pleasure to announce to the members of the Class in Telegraphy that Mr. Bliss, of Chicago, the well-known manufacturer of telegraphic instruments, has proposed, to give, as a prize to the best graduate in . this interesting branch next June, a beautiful plated “Sounder.” The honor of winning the first prize ever offered for Telegraphy at Notre Dime should be an incentive for all our young electricians to strive earnestly for it, and we hope they all will do so. Only one of course can win; but all can compete, and all have an equal right to hope that his efforts will be successful; but it will require close attention and diligent practice to accomplish the desired result.	Director of Studies.
Boll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. Appleyard, H. Ackhoff,. W. Ball, J. Browne, J. Berry, C. Berdel, W. Bastarache, J. Brogan, J. Callery, H. Clarke, M. Caldwell, H. Cassidy, J. Crummey, G. Crnmmey, P. Cooney, T. Cashin, E. Dunn, J. Devine, H. Dehner, F. Devoto, T. Daily, J. Egan, H. Esch, T. Flanagan, J. Falvey, J. Fielding, C. Falvey, J. Grace, J. Girard, J. Gregory, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, E. Graves, E. Gribling, C. Hess, V.' Hansen, W. Hughes, E. Halpin, A. Horne, J. Hogan, T. Hansard, 8. Hitt, J. E Kelly, P. Lilly, J. Lonergan, J. K. Mullen, E. McCunniff, J.' McManus, S.- Marks, F. Morass, T. McDonough, B. McGinnis, J. McDermott, J. Murphy, M. McCullough, M. McGovern, E. McSweeney, T. Murphy, E. Monohan, A. Mooney, J. McDonough, P. McDonald," J. E. ■O’Brien, J. M. O’Brien, M. O’Day, P. O’Sullivan, P. O’Meara, P. ,0’Mahony, E. O’Connell; M. Proctor, H. Pendill, F. Pendill, J. Rudge, T. Rorirke, G. Rulhar, H. P. Small, H. T. Small, L. Sanders, F Scrafford, J. Trabbic, P. Van Dusen, J. Wolfe, J., Ward, C. Walters.	’
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
G. Amann, W. Ames, B. Baca, G. Burbridge,' J. Beegan, J. Bennett, W. Breen, J. Buchanan, L. Bu«ch, A. Crunkilton, J. Crummey, P. Corbett, - J. Cullen, J. Delvecchio, J. Dalley, J. Dore, J. Ewing, F. Egan, C. Faxon, F. Frazee, C. Freese, W. Gross, J. Golsen, G. Gross, D. Gorman, B. Hersey, C. Hake, M. Kinsella, A. Kramer, J. Kielty, L. Loser, C. Lewis, B.Le Fevre, J. McGrath, J. McHugh, A. Mooney; C. Meyer, W. Meyer, J. Minton,. J.-Marks,-F. Mullen, L; Marantette, C. Nichols, W. Ohlen, E. Ratigan, A. Schmidt, F. Sweeger, T. Sauvageot, F, Stamm, J. Soule, W. Schultheis, L. Smith, J. Smith, H. Shephard, F. Thalman, R. Walker, F. Wittlesburger, F. Weisenbur-ger, H. Zuber, G. Lehman, J. Wood. ’
- MINIM DEPARTMENT.
M. McAuliffe, H. Canoil, E. Buchanan, L. Goldsmith, L. Frazee, H. Middleton, P. Carlin, R. Golsen, C. Campeau, F. Campeau, J. Blaine.	’
. Class Honors.
FRIDAY DECEMBER 5th, 1873. Preparatory Department.
SENIORS. .
German.—H. Ackhoff, V. Hansen, C. Hess, J. Golsen, F. Miller, J. McHugh, C. Otto, A. Kramer, H. F. Mathews, A. Schmidt, W. Schultheis, F. Stamm, F. Flanigan, F. Wlttlesberger, W. BaH, P. O’Meara, C. Kreiter, G. Hart, G. Burbridge, N. J. Mooney, J. Soule, J. N. Dryfoos, C. Fuhrer, C. Stucker, T. P.
I
T H E SCHOLASTIC.	125
White, U/M. Proctor, J. Girard, J.’D. Callery,. W. Appleyard; ' E-McSweeney, M. Keeler, D. McGinnis, B. McGinnis, J. Egan,
W. Fitzgerald, H. Fearon, W. Ames, T. Ratigan, J. Cullen, W. Gross, N. S. Dryfoos, C. Faxon, C. Burnham, E. Stichtenoth, C. Walsh, R. Golsen. •.	,	'
French.—B. LeFevre, L. Best, J. Minton. G. Gross, J. Borie, J. Trabbic, H. Hayes, R. Walker, J. Lambin, C. Hake, R. Bull, J. Delvecchio, B. McGinnis, J. Roll not, G. Frauenknecht.
Spanish.—A. Horne.	.	•
Piano.—J. Callery, W. Breen, P. Lilly, J. M. O’Brien,.A. Kramer, V. Phelan, W. Ball; C. Otto, A. Stichtenoth, J. Gillen, C. Stucker, C. Hake, H. Ackhoff, J. Campbell, W. Appleyard. N. Dryfoos,- A;'Schmidt, H. Fearon, J. Beegan, J. Golsen, T..Gal-. lagher, W. Gaar, C. O’Connor, Jules Borie.
.Violin.—E. Kimm, J. Brennan, J. E. O’Brien, T. Culliton, J.
Lyons, W. Fitzgerald, C. Burger, J. McHugh, F. Miller, J. O’Connell, J. Lynch, L. Loser, J. N. Dryfoos, T. Hunt, J. Quinn, J. .Delvecchio.	■
Clarionet.—P. O’Brien, C. Fuhrer. .	•
Flute.—W. Ohlen.
.	Drawing.—H. Zuber, W. Schultheis, W. Ohlen, L. Busch,-
J. Cassella, A. Schmidt, W. Van’t Woud, V. Hansen, W. Appleyard, W. Linberger, W.- Gaar, J. Lambin, F. Strong, E. Grambling, H. Long. ________________________
. All Around. .
This is a free blow-out. .	;
Foot-and-a-half is the game for the boys.
The new society is the Secret Order of Muttonheads.
ChHiSTMAS is the principal topic of. conversation. ’
The Bulletins for November were sent home last week.	•	.
The B. T. L. with their blue ribbons are as fine a looking set as ever. ...	■	’
•	M. R. Keegan spent a few days at the College not long since. He is a devoted friend of Notre Dame, and as such he is always welcom.	’
Prof. Melville Bonham surpassed all our expectations. We seldom enjoyed any entertainment as well as we did his two Readings. •	■	'	’ •
We expect Prof. McAfferty this week. The Professor, is well known to the students of last year. He is a fine Reader, and will no doubt gratify his friends with.some of his best selections. ’	,.
The Junior Orchestra, can make a considerable noise-when it tries. We do.not think it is unreasonable to expect a soiree from them soon. ■	- •
We understand that the Columbians are to make their debut before Christmas. We wish them entire success^ They possess both “ grit ” and talent.
The Infirmary is-lonely and deserted: can’t raise a man to potronize it. - Nothing scares out sickness and disease like a doctor.
The Juniors have finally come out in force to follow the course of Dancing-Lessons just begun. We are told that they are all young gentlemen. Good for the Juniors!
Mr. Grummet, of St. Paul, was with us last week, visiting his sons. Mr. T. Grace of the same city was here this week, also on a visit to his son. St. Paul is well represented here.
Some very warm discussions take place between the • members of the Philosophy classes. There are good
logicians on both sides, hence it is very difficult to tell who gets worsted.
•	Man’s understanding can’t grasp everything. No indeed I we saw a boy the other day whose understanding—of considerable extension too—was unable to grasp the front steps, and the consequence was he took a back-action slide.
Last week was intervened in a great degree with exhibitions, there being three during the week. Students are always glad to see these entertainments come, for they are not only amusing but instructive.
A game at snow-balling is a fine thing; indeed it is sublime; but we came to the conclusion that “ distance lends enchantment to the view ” after the first round of one of these games not long since. Does any one doubt it?
The Population of-Notre Dame -3 720; South Bend is growing to be one of the largest cities in Indiana. Her population is now about 8,500, and her manufactories are more numerous than in many cities of double its population.
Some parties who are disposed to be belligerent at times, declare hostilities with many a fierce and alarming demonstration, causing their opponents to quake before their’ terrible Squint. However, not so much as the blood of a “ kid ” is ever shed.
We notice that the Telegraphy Class has been at work for the past few days erecting the poles for the wire to the Novitiate. There are about a dozen poles, we should judge. When the wire is stretched it will give still more practice to the Class.
A good thing is always appreciated by the Faculty and Students of Notre Dame. This they clearly evinced on the sixth inst. by giving a benefit to Prof. Bonham. It was very successful, there having been over two hundred and eighty tickets taken at the door.	'
The Choir distinguished itself on Monday - last, Feast of the Immaculate Conception. . Some parts of the Mass were excellently rendered. The Ace Maria at the Offertory was well sung. At Vespers we noticed particularly the Alma'Redemptoris and'the .0 SdLutaris, bith of which
■ were given in the bld Choir’s best style. We hope to see it redivivus.	,
Some think that possibly the stringency in money circles will affect the next session. Well, we have better ’ hopes than that. It is not that money is scarce, but peo-’ ple want to make good investments and take stock in what will bring good interest. Education-is the best security. Invest in that, and your money will be returned to you a Hundredfold.	'
” Prof. Bonham’s Entertainment. ■
When we go to a public entertainment given by a man who comes highly recommended we have a right to expect a good, programme and to have it well executed. We did expect-to enjoy a pleasant evening and to receive a: few hints on the ever-important subject of elocution last Thursday evening, and we were not disappointed. Should we express ourselves in the least dissatisfied, we fear some one would have us by the ears at once and accuse us of cynicism, lack of appreciation, or something of the sort, yet we will hazard this much: we were dissatisfied that we could not have more of it	’
Yes, the public reading was a success, and met the ap
126	THE SCHOLASTIC.
probation of all—from the President down to the smallest Minim; and there were several reasons wh’ch conspired to this end. First, Mr. Bounam is an elocutionist of decided merit; and when he adds his genial, happy manner, ready comprehension and adaptation to the character he is representing, his power over his audience is complete. He is not only an elocutionist but a delineator of character; and it would be difficult to say in which he excels, for he has combined the two in the most perfect manner and it is impossible to separate them. His control over his facial expression is admirable, while the rapidity with which he can turn, from sighs and tears to merry peals of laughter, is somewhat startling. He brings his men and women before his audience so forcibly that one might easily fancy himself listening to the joys and sorrows of his living characters so charmingly told by the authors he represented. His programme for the two evenings was so varied and interesting that we must hasten over it very rapidly as space will not perm’t even a mere notice of the many beauties of each particular piece. He introduced the programme Thursday evening with a fine selection entitled “ The Painter of Seville,” which was followed by “ Darius Green and his Flying Machine,” a scene .from “ Hamlet,” a selection from “ Roughing it,” by Mark Twain.. He next sang that beautiful little song, “ Castles in the Air,” playing the accompaniment on the guitar. Then followed that serio-comic poem by Will M. Carleton entitled “ The Editor’s Guests,” “ The Dutch Magistrate,” E. A. Poe’s celebrated poem “ The Raven.” Then a characteristic speech by that ambiguous supermundane creature known as a “Sophomore in College,” and here again be played and sang a sensible song entitled “ Let it Pa«s,” which was followed by “The Quaker’s Troubles,” “The Little Church Round the Corner” the song and accompaniment, “Old Simon the Cellarer,” “Gone with a Handsomer Man,” by. Carleton, and closed the programme with that tender, heart-thrilling poem by Samuel Lover, “ Shamus O’Brien.”
Saturday evening the students assembled again in Wash-, ington Hall to listen to what proved to be the best entertainment of the season. Mr. Bonham inaugurated the evening’s entertainment by reciting Bret Harte’s famous poem, “ John Burns of Gettysburg,” which was followed by, the rendition of “ Abel Law and the Ghost,” “Hamlet’s Instruction to the players,” “ A Yankee in London,” “ The Moneyless Man,” a selection ''om the “Bedott Papers,” “The Widow’s letter to Elder Snivels,” which was received with roars of applause, “ Betsey and I are out,’ “ and sequel —“ How Betsey and I made up,” “ by Carleton, that beautiful patriotic poem, “Independence Bell,” an extravagant, bit of hyprebole entitled “ Poetry gone mad,” song “ Going up and Coming down.” Then came the most difficult as well the most delightful exercise of the evening, a poem entitled “Anna and Willie’s Prayer,” which was listened to in breathless silence by the audience; this was immediately succeeded by a very ludicrous burlesque, “The Young Lawyer’s Speech.” Then came an old Irish Ballad, entitled “ Patrick Rahour,” song “ O Where is my Nancy ? ’ ’ followed by such a persistent encore that he reappeared on the stage guitar in hand and sang that sene from real life, “Between you and me and the Gate-post.” Hethen. repeated (by request) “ The Raven,” and closed the even ing’s entertainment with that terrible warning to the drunkard—John B. Gough’s most earnest plea, entitled—“Over the Falls.” To criticise would be to praise, and the audi-
ence have already forestalled us there; but we will hail with pleasure the time when he can make it possible to return and favor us with another Public Reading. In conclusion, the N. D. U. Band was promptly on hand each evening, and—as is customary on such occasions—discoursed some very agreeable music and received its com-omplement of applause.	Ulen Spiegel.
Subscriptions to the New Tabernacle..
[continued.]	' f
Hon. Judge P. B. Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio.........* 10 00.'
Hon. Mrs. P. B. Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio.......... 10 00
Mrs. M. M. Phelan, Lancaster, Ohio............... 10	00
James W. Miers, Esq., Lancaster, Ohio............ 10	00
Henry M. Bigelow, Esq., Lancaster, Ohio. ........ 10	00
Miss Regina Herbert, Cincinnati, Ohio............ 10	00
Mr. Edward..Slattery, Niles, Michigan,..;..;.... -10.00
Mrs. Maiy Slattery, Niles, Michigan.............  10	00'
St Joseph’s Novitiate, Notre Dame, Indiana...... 21 55
Christopher Kelly, per Rev. A. Louage............ 10	00
A Friend, Illinois............................... 10	00
Maurice Stark, .Niles, Michigan.................. 10	00
Edward O’Brien, Niles, Michigan.................. 10	00
Louis Dellone, Pennsylvania.....................  10	00
Mrs. Ellen Toomey, New York..................'... 10 00
Mrs. Margaret Haffey, Illinois................... 10	00
Mrs. Lydia Clarke, Burlington, Vermont........... 10	00
Miss A. Hemenway—‘ Marie Jos phine," Burlington, Vermont.................................     10	00
Frances M. Enos, Louisville, Kentucky............ 10	00-
Mary Lenno daffy, Bertrand, Michigan............. 10	00
William Hagen, St. Mary’s, Indiana............... 10	00.
James Quigley, St. Mary’s, Indiana............... 10	00
John Qu’gley, St. Mary’s, Indiana............ 10 00
James Farrel, St. Mark’s, Indiana................ 10	00
Joseph Kinley, St. Mary’s, Indiana............... 10	00
Cornelius Carney, St. Mary’s, Indiana............ 10	00
Patrick Hogan, St. Mary’s, Indiana............... 10	00
Joseph Nelson, St. Mary’s, Indiana............... 10	00
Assumption School, New Lowell, Indiana, per Sis-
ter M. Cyprian................................. 10	00
Thomas Grace, St. Paul, Minnesota................ 10	00
Matthew Connor, New Brighton, New York.......... 10 00
Mrs. EHen -Mary O'Brien, Dubuque, Iowa.......;. 10 00
Wm. O’Dwyer, Notre Dame, Indiana................. 10	00
Fred. Borenkamp, St. Joseph’s Farm, Indiana..... 10 00
Joseph Bauder, Notre Dame, Indiana............... 10	00
Mrs. Helching, Brooklyn, New York........ .... 10 00
Mrs. M. Hart, Cincinnati, Ohio................... 10	00
Prof. Beleke, Illinois........................... 10	00
John O’Meara, Sr., Cincinnati, Ohio............■	10 00
John O’Meara, Jr., Cincinnati, Ohio.............. 10	00
'	[to be continued.]
“My wife,” saida critic, “is the most even-tempered person in the world—she’s always mad.”
A drunken fellow wandered into a Sunday School and ooka seat with the primer scholars, when the teacher thus accosted him: “ Well, James, do you know what condition you are in?” “Yes, ma’am—in the gall of bit’ness an-bonds of’niquity. Ask me some hard questions.” .
THE SCHOLASTIC.	127
SAINT MABY’S ACADEMY. .
St. Mart’s Academy, Dec. 7, 1873.
Tablet of Honor.	-
Senior Department.
Miss L. Niel, M. Kearney, N. Gross, R. Devoto, M. Brown, R. Spier, L. West, L. Biack, N. Langdon, L. Dragon, J. Walker, A. Lloyd, J. Kearney, B. Reynolds, M. Letourneau, J. Lock, E. Boyce, K. Finley, A. Curtain, M. Walker, S; Sweeney, G. Walton, J. Fanning, A. Keeline, A. T. Clarke, A. St. Clair, M. Quan, G. Phillips, R Burke, A. Maloney, E. Sweeney, E. Bohen, C. Wheaton, M. Reilly, M. Johnson, N. Foote, E. Denehey, E. Dougherty, L. Pfeiffer, B. Wade, R. Woolman, N. Bill, M. Quill, N. McEwen, F. Moore, E. Quinlan, M. McGuire, A. Roberts, J. Bennett, JL Huber, A. Nichols, A. Minton, L. Wyman, J. McCool, L. Keena, R. Rosesco, K. Attwood, E. Colby, A. Sullivan, M. Bell, L. Henroten, C. Germain, D. Simo, s, A. Marantette R. Carrnoli, R. Klarr, L. Johnson, L Kelly, E. Gosse, C Sautroup, H. M'ller, C. Strother, R. McKeaver, M. Quill, M‘. Ayd, J. Haney, M. Paquette, N. O’Connell, M. Klotz, A Garies, F. Gunzert, A. Mertz, A. Manz, C. Morgan, K. Irmiter, K. Engel, K. Patteson, J. Adams, N. Hinkston.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN VOCAL MUSIC.
First Class—Lillie West.	•	■'
Second Division—N. Foote, C. Miller, E. Haggerty, L.
Henroten, E. O’Connor, L. Black.	'
Second Class—S. Taylor, M. Quan, Ml Wicker,' T. Heckman.	-	•	" ’
Second Division—J. Kearney, M. Kearney, D. Simonds;
A. Dougherty, A. Morrison. -	-	’' '
•Third Class—E. Taylor, C. Strother, A: Roberts,' A? Keeline, J. Stimson, L. Pfeiffer, A. Paulsen, E/Parker/E: Klotz.	• '	’ ’	■.....'	‘
Second Division—C. Morgan, M. Jackson, J. Brown,' J. McCool, J. Hatch.	-	" ' " ’
.	. INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC. -
First Class—Miss E. Black, J. Walker.	' '
Second Division—R. Spiers, E Quinlan.	' '
Second Class—N. McEwen, M. Emmons; M. Kreigh, T. Heckman.	■ * '
Second Division—M. Ward, N. Foote, A. Smith. *
Third Class—D. Simonds, M. Quan, M.'Letoumeau, E. Colby, R. Devoto, N. Gross, A. Roberts, A. Morrison. '
Second Division—A. St. Clair, M. Resche, A. Nichols, C. Nason, A. Minton, F. Moore, E. Gosse, E. Dennehey.
Fourth Class—E. O’Connor, E. Ives, L. Wyman, M. McGuire, A. Keeline, M. Ayd, J. Towers, C. Morgan, J.' Bennett.
..Second Division—E. Parker, L. Henroten, J. Stimpson, M. Barry, R. Rosesco, J. Locke,.S. Taylor, B. Golsen, E. Ross, M. Brown, L. Tinsley, A. Shores.
Fifth Class—M. Faxon, M. Booth, L. McKinnon, E. Boyce, M. Pritchard, M. Kaeseberg.
Second Division—F. Lloyd, M. Brown, C.'Miller, M. Hoover.
Sixth Class—A. Mertz, I. Hatch, A. Goewey, G. Phillips, E. Lang, M. A. Roberts, J. Huber, M. Thompson, E. Thompson, M. Cummings, S. Bohan, K. Patterson, L. Germain, M. Hayes, J. Adams, A. Paulsen.	-
Second Division—Miss Andrew, M. Schultheis, D. Bullen, L. Shnoback, K. Irmiter, H. Miller, E. Wade, A.
O’Connor, L. Johnson, M. Johnson, L Fisk, N. McAuliffe, K; Morehead, J. Sink.
' Seventh Class—F. Hoyt, R. McKeever, N. O’Meara.
Eighth Class—M. Reynolds,' E. Lappin. -
Ninth Class—T. Cronin, M. DeLohg, B. Pfeiffer.
Tenth Class—A. Ewing, G. White, E. Simpson, J. Brown.
Harmony—R. Spiers, E. Black, J. Walker.
Theoretical Clashes—M. Quan, M. Emmons, D. Simonds, N. Foote, H. Resch, J. Kearney, N. McEwen, A. St. Clair, E. Gosse, L. Henroten, L. Niel, C. Mason, A. Nichols, E. Richardson, N. Gross, G. Phillips, E. O’Connor, E. Ives, L. Wyman, L. Lilly, A. Shores, E. Boyce, A. T. Clarke, K. Finley, E. Parker, F. Gunzert, M. Kaesburg, E. Ross, L. Tinsley, A. Allen. L. Johnson, M. Johnson, H. Miller, J. McCool, I. Fisk M. Booth, A. Mertz, S. Sweeney, M. Hayes, A. Goewey, J. Brown. E. Simpson, T. Cronin, A Ewing, G. White.
Harp—J. Walker, M. Wicker, M. Walker, E. O’Conner.
DRAWING.
First Class—Misses R. Devoto and B. Reynolds.
Second Division, First Class—Misses N. McEwen, N. McAuliffe, B. Quan, M. K-’.eseOerg.
Second Class—Misses L.-Henrotin, E. Sweeney, M. Cummings, G. Walton.
Third Class—Misses N. Huber, C. Morgan, N. Hinks-1 ton, R. Klarr, M. Resch, M. A. Schultheis, M. Ewing, M. O’Corihor, A; Koch, A. Cullen.
WATER color painting.
First Class—Misses B. Reynolds and B. Wade.
Second Class—N. Me Auliffe, B. Quan, C. Sottrup, M.
O’Connor and C. Morgan.
Second Division Second Class—Misses M. Kaesburg, Mr Resch; M. O’Connor, C. Morgan.
■ •	OIL PAINTING.
First Class—Misses L. Black, B. Wade, A. Keeline, E;‘Wade.	.
Second Class—L. Pfeiffer, R. Woolman, M. Cummings.:
First French Class—N;‘Gross, M. Quan, L West, M. Kearney,' J. Kearney, M: Letourneau, L. Dent, M. Po-quette, J. Walker, M. Walker, M. E?Roberts.
Second French Class—L. Tinsley, B. Reynolds," M. Thompson, M. Barry, M. Brown, N. Langdon, L. NieL
Third French Class—A. Smith, A_ T. Clarke, A. St. Clair, F. Moore, E. Parker, K. Morehead, K. Atwood, B. Golsen, S. Taylor, K. and M. Hutchinson.
First German Class—A. Mertz, L. Black, A. Kengel, L. Pfeiffer, M. Faxon, M. Klotz.
Second German Class—Misses R. Finley, R. Klar, B. Golsen, M. Dennehey; A. O’Connor, E. Richardson, M. Kaesburg, K. Attwood.	...	- ,	.
Third German Class—Misses C. Germain, M. Hoover, M. Emmons, B. Pfeiffer, A. Shores, A. Koch, A. McGuire.
Latin—Misses M. Emmons, A. Curtain, E. Colby, E. Taylor.	'
Junior Department.
E. Richardson, A. Smith, M. Faxon, A. Walsh, K. and M. Hutchinson, M. Resch, M. Carlin, A. Shores, A. Lynch, M. O’Connor, L Fisk, B. Wilson, M. Reynolds, M. Walsh, E. Parker, M. Brown, M. Ewing, E. Lang, M. Pritchard, B. Quan, D. Bullen, M. and J. Thompson, EL Morehead, M. Summers, N. O’Meara, M. DeLong, M. A. Schultheis, J. Brown,' A. Koch, M. Kaeseburg, M Booth, A. Cullen, G. Hooley, A. Paulsen, E. Schnoback,-A. Ewing, L. Walsh, B. Golsen, B. Pfeiffer, A. Goewey, M. Francis, E. Lappin, L. Germain, T. Cronin, 'J. Sink, K. Lassen, G. Barry, J. Andrews, M. Ware, E. Simpson, M. Hayes, LandN. Mann, J. Thallman, B. Thomas, M. and C. Hughes.
128
THE SCHOLASTIC
THE SUN.
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
WEEKLY, SEMI-WEEKLY, AND DAILY,
THE WEEKLY SUN is too widely known to require any extended recommendation; but the reasons which have already given it fifty thousand subscribers, and which will, we hope, give it many thousands more, are briefly as follows:
It is a first-rate newspaper. All the news of the day will be found in it condensed when unimportant, at full length when of moment, and always presented ;n a clear, intelligible, and interesting manner.
.It is a first-rate family paper, full of entertaiingand instructive reading of every kind, but containing nothing that can offend the most delicate ana scrupulous taste.	.
It is a first-rate story paper. The best tales and romances of current literature are carefully selected and legibly printed in its pages.
It is a first-rate agricultural paper. The most fresh and instructive articles on agricultural topics regularly appear in this department.
It is an independentpoluical paper, belonging to noparty and wearing no collar. Ir fights for principle, and for the election of the best men to office. Itespecially dev >tes its energies to rhe exposure of the great corruptions tnat now weaken and disgrace our country, and threaten to undermine republican institutions altogether. It lias no fear of knaves, and asks no favors from their supporters.
It reports the fashions for the ladies and the markets for the men especially ’he cattle-markets, to which it pays particular attention.
Finally, it is the cheapest paper published. One dollar a j ear will secure it for any subscriber. It is not necessary to get up a club in order to have THE WEEKLY SUN at this rate. Any one who sends a single dollar will get the paper for a year.	'
We have no travelling agents.
THE WEEKUY STUN.—Eight pages, fifty-six columns. Only §1.00 a year. No discounts from this rate. '
THE SEMI-WTEEKLY STTV.-Sawe size as the Daily Sun. $2.00 a yew. A discount of 20 per cent; to clnbs of IO or over. ' ‘	,
THEDALLY	A large four-page newspaper of
twenty-eight columns. Daily circulation over 130,000. All • the news for 2cents Subscription price, 50 cents a month or $0.00 ayear. To clnbs of 10 or over a discount of 20 per cent. Address, “THE STUN, ”Ncwr York City.
THE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIGHT HOUSE,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the - above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furuisbed-it with new, first-class furnitnre. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and .Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of home during their stay,
JERRY KNIGHT, I Ppn„,5„tnra captain mills, j Pr°prietors.
PENNSYLVANIA CENTRAL DOUBLE TBAOK BAILEOAD.
On and after Sunday, November 2,1873, trains will leave South Bend as follows:	'
GOING EAST.
2.32 a. m. (No. 8j, Night Express, -over Main Line, Arrives -at Toledo, 10 30; Cleveland, 2.45 p. m.; Buffalo, 8.55 p. m. ’
10.10 a. m (No. 2), Mail, over Main and Air Lines; Arrives at Elkhart, li>.50; Toledo, 5.10 p. m.
11.58 t. M. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5 25; Cleveland, 9.40 p. m. ; Buffalo 4.05 a. st.	•
9.11 p. m. (No. 6), Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40: Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo, 1.10 p. m.
5.10 p. st. (No 52), Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
7.05 a. st. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 8.10; Chicago • 11 a. m. ‘
5.20 a. m. (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 6.15; Chicago, 8.50 a. st.	■	.
5.42 a. m. (No. 9). Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 7 35; Salem Crossing. 8.05; Grand Crossing, 9.37; Chicago 10.15.
5.45 p. st. (No. 1), Special Cliicigo Express Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 6:40; Chicago, 9.20 p. m.
9 10 a. m. (No. 51), Local Freight.
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers pon Through Freight Trains.
J W. CARY, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H PARSONS, Snp’t Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GED DINGS, Freight Agent.
C. M. BROOKE, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Snp’t.
Passengers going to local points West, should take Nos. 7, 9 and 15: East. Nos. 2, 10 and 16. Passengers taking No. 2 for Air Line points change cars at Elkhartwithout delay. Warsaw Express (connecting with No. 4) leaves Elkhart at 1.40 p. m.. running through to Wabash. Grand Rapids Express leaves Elkhart at 5 a. m., and 4.05 p. m., rnnning through to Kalamazoo and Grand Rapids. Passengers for Detroit must take Nos. 2,8 or 16, as through tickets are not good via Air Line,—2 and 8 carry through coaches. Through Tickets to all competing points in eveiy direction. Local Tickets, Inniraiice Tickets, K. R. Guides, etc., will be furnished upon application to the Ticket Agent; or R. M. Betts, Ticket Clerk, at the Depot, at tne head of Lafayette and Franklin Streets, South Bend. No trouble to answer questions. S. POWELL, Ticket Agent.
NILES I SOUTH BEND R.R.
GOING SOUTH.
Leave Niles, -	6.50 a m. Arrive South Bend, -	7.30 a.m'
“	9.35 a.m. “	“	10.15 a.m
“	4.50p.m.	“	5.30 p.m
GOING NORTH.
Leave South Bend, - 8740 a.in. I Arrive Niles, -	- 9.20 a.m
“	“	11.45 a.m.	“	12.25 p.m
“	“	■	6.30 p.m. |	“	7.10 p.m
• SUNDAY TRAINS.
Arrive South Bend, - 9.30 a.m. I Leave South Bend, - 10.00 a.m ‘	’ 5.30 p.m. I	“	“	6.30 p.m
S. R. KING, Agent, South Bend. -
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Chicago Alton ano St. Louis .Line.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New ’ York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m Arrives at New York 1130 a. m*
2d train “	“	5.15 p. m “	“	6.41 a. m*
3rd train “	“	9.00 p.m “	'	“	11.30 p.m*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and a Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. MCCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, AssistantSuperintendent, Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jb., Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia.
F. R. MYERS, Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Ag’t. Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLaND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
• Second day.
ZaOVXBVZXXS N. ALBAN? & CHICAGO B.H.
On and after Sunday. Nov. 12, 1873, trains pass New Albany and Salem Crossing, as follows:	* *	-
GOING NOE TN.
Pass.....'......7.29	n. m.
Freight...........2.48 a.	m.
freight...........8.57 p.	m.
Pass.............9.24 a.	m.
GOING SOUTH
Pass...................8.23	p.m.
Freight...............10.47	a.m.
Freight................4.45	a.m.
Pass..................11.23	a.m.
H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
O'RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
X St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisi-	LEAVE. AliBIVE. *9:30 a.m. *8:00 p.m
ana, Mo.	*9:45 a.m. *4:30 p.m
Wenona, Lacon and Washington	
Express (Western Division)^	♦9:30 a.m. *4:30 p.m.
Joliet Accommodation,	|,*4:10 p.m. *9:40 a.m.
St. Louis and Springfield Night	
Express, via Main Line,	+6:30 p.m. *4:30 p.m.
St. Louis and SpringfieldLightning Express, via Main Line, ana	
also via Jacksonville Division	$9:00 p.m. 17:15 a.m.
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, HL, and Louisiana, Mo.	
	$9:45p.m. §7:15 a.m.
♦ Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only $ -Except Saturday. I Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.	■
Pullman Palace Pining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO.	CHICAGO.