The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE pTUDENTS.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume VIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 14, 1874. Number 8
JNO.HAGERTY,	L. G. TONG,
Cure Judge.	Notary Public.
. JJAGERTY & TONG,
ATTOBNEYS-AT-LAW,
REAL ESTATE and INSURANCE AGENTS,
Agents for Steamship Dines.'
COLLECTIONS SOLICITED.
No. 9 Odd Fellows’ Block, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
o24-ly
Before going elsewhere, go to
ES. PECKS, _ , . .	Dealer in.
HATS, CAPS, TRUNKS,
Boys’ Clothing and, Gents’ Furnishing Goods.
Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., o24-tf	South. Bend, Indiana.
JQ .J. HOLLAND, & Co., Wholesale Manufacturers of
HAVANA AND DOMESTIC CIGARS,
—ALSO—
WHOLESALE JOBBERS and GENERAL DEALERS IN SMOKERS' ARTICLES.
1OO MICHIGAN St., - SOUTH BEND IND., oSl-tf.
JQ E. CUMMINS,
DENTIST,
No. 96 Michigan Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
(Over Wyman’s.)	■ o24-lm
Do you want a drive ? Go to
JgEN COQUILLARD’S
LIVERY STABLES,
Comer of Michigan and Washington Streets,
South. Bend, Indiana. o24-2m
STUDENTS' OFFICE!!^
-p-ENRY BLUM, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER KT
CIGARS, TOBACCOS, PIPES, Etc.,
No. 34 WASHINGTON St., -SOUTH BEND, IND. %o24-tf
•g NICAR & Ca,
HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
118 MICHIGAN St-, -	-	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
. HEADQUARTERS FOR
Cutlery, Skates, Cartridges, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.,
Desk-Locks, Padlocks, Japanned Boxes, etc., _____________________________________o24-tf -yr NICAR,
DEALER IN HARDWARE,
91 MICHIGAN. St; - - - SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
ALL SORTS OF
Cutlery, Tale Desk-Locks, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.
—ALSO—
Skates, Cabtridges, Tin Trunks, Etc. ___________________________________. oa^tf y£RS. C. S. STOVER;
MILLINER,
129 Michigan, Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
Dealer in .
Millinery Goods, Hats, Bonnets, Laees, Etc.
Es^The young ladies at St. Mary’s Academy will And it to theft advantage to give her a call.	o24-J*n 1
JJIGHT & PAIRFIELD,
JEWELLERS,	7
. South Bend, - - - Indiana. '
Solicit the Patronage of the Students of Notre Dame and St. Mary's confident in	- • •
THEIR LARGE AND VARIED STOCK, -
None Can Fail to be Suited.
^"Particular attention given to repairing fine Jewelry and Watches.	o24-3m
. Q.EORGE HEHR,
FASHIONABLE TAILOR,
’ AND GENERAL DEALER IN
Cloths, Cassimeres and Vestings.
No 111 MICHIGAN STREET, - SOUTH BEND, IND. (Dp Staiis.)	o24-tf „
THE KNOBLOCK STORE,
99 WASHINGTON St.,	. SOUTH BEND, IND.,
Is the Place For all Kinds of
. CHOICE FRUITS (FOREIGN and DOMESTIC), )
—ALSO—
CHOICE BRANDS of CIGARS and TOBACCO, Cheaper than at any other place in the city. o24-lm
82
THE SCHOLASTIC.
e
pALMER & VanWINKLE,
J.	. .	Dealers in
- _ pOM'ECTIOlSrErilES, Musical Instruments, Gold Pens, School and Miscellaneous Books, Stationery, Slates, Inks,
~ Newspapers.Periodicals, Magazines, Etc.
Special attention paid to filling orders for Students. o24-tf
Jp DUBAIL,
BABBEB AND HAIBDBESSEB,
71 Washington St., -	South Bend, Ind.
Mr. Dubail spares no pains to make his work satisfactory. He will be in attendance every Wednesday at the College, at 9 o’clodk A M., to attend to all students desiring his services.	o24-tf
JQR C. H. MIDDLETON,
.........DENTIST,
109 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana. o24-tf
^DWARD BUYSEE, Dealer in
WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELRY, Etc.,
76 Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana. Repairing promptly done, and all work warranted. J6-tf
A HANAUER,
Nos. 32 & 34 Michigan Stbeet, South Bend, Indiana.
.	Dealer in
READY-MADE CLOTHING,
GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS, STAPLE AND FANCY DRY GOODS.
All goods sold are guaranteed.
o24-tf
Students wishing well made Clothing should go to TDUZBY & GALLAGHER,
~	CLOTHIERS,
MERCHANT TAILOBS,
,	AND DEALERS IN
Gents’ Furnishing Goods, HATS, CAPS, &c. '
No. 109 MICHIGAN St., - SOUTH BEND, IND. o24-2m
SATIN GLOSS PHOTOGRAPHS.
For the most improved Satin Gloss Photographs or Gems (4 for 50 cents), go to	.
BECKWITH’S GALLEBY,
107 & 109 Michigan Street, - -	- South Bend, Indiana.
(Over National Bank.)	% o24-6m
JRELAND & SON, PROPRIETORS OF
" LIVERY AND FEED STABLE, '
..No. ^4=GMLCHIGANBL, . - SOUTH BEND, IND.,.
~ Opposite the Dwight; House).
■ _	----o--
HACK JCliNE
To and from all trains to.the-Dwight House or anypartof the City, and to the College and St. Mary’s.	J£o34 2m
“THE NINE CENT STORE!”
----------------0---
DROP IN AT
“THE NINE CENT STORE!”
AND
See the Curiosities. . •
No. 114 Michigvn Street, - South Bend, Indiana. J^o24-tf.
THE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIGHT HOUSE,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
4TESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the ±VJL above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it witb new, first class furniture. The travelling public-may rely on finding the best accomn cdation.
Ladies and Genuetuen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of hon e during their stay,
JERRY" KNiGHT, 1
Captain MILLS, J Pinetars.
A. KLINGEL •& SONS,
69 WASHINGTON St., - SOUTH BEND, IND. Keep Constantly on hand a Complete Assortment of
Mens’ and Boys’ Fine Boots and Shoes
‘or the Celebrated BURT, LILLY YOUNG PRATT and Brackett & Boyden’s Hand and Machine sewed Goods, THE Largest Stock In The City.
Give us a Call and see the Nobby Styles!
LADIES
. We would call your attention to our immense Stock of FINE SHOES of all the standard makes..	o24-3m
ICE CREAM! SODA WATER! OYSTERS!
For the Best Confectionery, go to
ED. GILLEN’S BESTAUBANT,
99 MAIN STREET, -	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MEALS AT ALL HOURS!
Fruits, Nuts, Confectionery, and Choice Cigars,
ALWAYS ON HAND!
Fresh Candies Made Daily.
J$024-tf

The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE STUDENTS. -
Disee quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus. -
Volume VIII. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 14, 1874.	Number 8. ■
The Blessed. Sand.
BY S. TEACKLB WALLIS.
[There is a legend of an English Monk, who died at the Monastery of Aremberg, where he had copied and illuminated many books, hoping to be rewarded in Heaven. Long after his death, his tomb was opened, and nothing could be seen of his remains but the right hand, with which he had done his pious work, and which had been miraculously preserved from decay.]
For you and me, who love the light
Of God’s uncloistered day, It were indeed a dreary lot
To shut ourselves away
From every glad and sunny thing,
And pleasant sight and sound,	I
And pass from out a silent'cell	|
Into the silent ground. -	1
Not so the good Monk, Anselm, thought, For, in his cloister’s shade,
The cheerful faith that lit his heart, Its own sweet sunshine made;
And in its glow he prayed and wrote,	I
From matin-song till even,
And trusted in the Book of Life To read his name in heaven.
What holy books his gentle art
Filled full of saintly lore!	j
What pages brightened by his hand
The splendid missals bore 1
What blossoms, almost fragrant, twined
Around each blessed name, .	j
And how his Saviour’s cross and crown
Shone out from cloud and flame!	. I
But, unto clerk as unto clown,	I
One summons comes alway,	I
And Brother Anselm heard the call,
At Vesper-chime one day, His busy pen was in his hand, His parchment by his side—
He bent him o’er the half-writ prayer,	I
Kissed Jesus’ name and died.
They laid him where a window’s blaze Flashed o’er the graven stone,
And seemed to touch his simple name
With pencil like his own ;	I
And there he slept, and one by one,	I
His brothers died the while,	I
And trooping years went by and trod	I
His name from off the aisle.	I
And lifting up the pavement, then,	I
An Abbot’s couch to spread,	I
I	They let the jewelled sunlight in	.	•
I	Where once lay Anselm’s head.
I	No crumbling bone was there; no trace
I	Of human dust that told,
I	But, all alone, a warm right hand	'
I	Lay fresh upon the mould.
I	It was not stiff, as dead men’s are,	-
I	But, with a tender clasp,
I	It seemed to hold an unseen hand
I	Within its living grasp,	-
I ■ And ere the trembling monks could turn, .
. To hide their dazzled eyes,	' " ’ ‘
It rose, as with a sound of wings,	' * ■
I	Right up into the skies.	—Exchange,
I ' Autumn.
I Autumn is the most beautiful time of the whole year. It is that grand season which, clothing the earth in a* golden gloom, breathes into the soul a spirit of joy, I mingled with sadness. Some persons may prefer the. early, verdure and joyous song of the Springtime ;• others may I wish.for the bright skies and flowery bloom of Summer; and still others may long for the sports and pleasures of the cold Winter; but the majority of people, I think, love far I more the tender and beautiful Autumn. For who does not admire the many-tinted Autumn? the season of fruit, of harvest and of vine,—when the earth is covered with her. I brightest robe, and all Nature seems to have exhausted her beauty on the pictured landscape of mountain and valley.
I Yes! lovely Autumn! thou art far the grandest of all I the seasons. Nothing can be more beautiful than to see'a I large forest which has been tinted by the early frosts of I Autumn. Every shade of color meets our eye, from the bright yellow to the dusky brown. To the lover of Nature this season of the year presents a view of indescribable
l beauty. Indeed we must all admit that we have, at some time in our lives, been impressed by its grandeur and beauty.
I One of the loveliest sights imaginable is a sunrise or sunset in Autumn. One evening, a few weeks ago, I took a stroll down to St. Joseph’s Lake. There a picture met my gaze which in beauty of coloring I never saw surpassed. The shades of evening were just falling, and the western sky was painted with the burnished gold of the setting sun. Not a breeze raffled the placid waters of the lake. All around were the dark-green banks with their forests of bright-colored trees—the brilliant red of the maples, and the yellow locusts forming a pleasing contrast with the sombre oaks. Away to the west was a line of goldenleaved poplars. While I stood and watched all these beauties, the moon arose from behind the trees on the east bank and enhanced with her silvery light the scene, already

THE SCHOLASTIC.
enchanting. With a friend I entered a boat and rowed E man, during his life, is loved and esteemed by men for his out'into the lake; there we lay on our oarsand watched ■ goodness of heart, and his gentleness; and the remem-
the deepening'shadows. All around us was the crystal water. Not a sound was heard but the distant hum of the play-ground and the plaintive murmur of the Vesper prayer as it floated from the Novitiate on the still evening air. I would fain have watched still longer, but the sound of the Prefects’ bell warned me that roy time had expired. And, yet, around all this beauty there seems to hover a kind of sadness, a feeling of awe and of reverence. The
brance of him will long be cherished by men; and he will be held up as the. model .of .a..truly good and humble man, who was loved by all. So we see that humility leads to virtue, wisdom and respect, while pride leads to dishonor and vice; and the man who follows the first.eourse. and. practices humility, will succeed, because he has laid-his
foundation low.
J. G. E.
Humility.
s^on of ^tumn seems to suggest t^	on	Jr0^ess
of death. We see in the decay and fall of the leaves anB	•	- •pt,-—:- , e •	:
image of the close of our lives. As the leaves wither and H	01 * AysiGa* OGieaGe.
drop off at the approach of Winter, so do we wither away B
when the chilling blasts of old age come upon us, andB	. .	.
finally drop into the cold and narrow tomb. May theH	' AS^°CIATI0N’
Spring and Summer of our lives be so spent, that when the B	.	. .	,
Autumn shall have arrived we can await with peace and H	- l - . 1	J „	. ... -
•	-rar- .	, - . - .	,	m -o n B With the facts just mentioned before them, inquisitive
resignation the Winter, which is death. T. F. G. B	,, ,	„	...	,
“	■	■■ men would have gone farther. But the philosophers of
Greece and Rome were, it seems, satisfied with the knowledge of the existence of-these phenomena, and never troubled themselves about inquiring into their nature or'
He who would build lastingly, must lay his foundation B causes—or how, by studying them, they might arrive at1 low. This though a true saying, is one which few are will H results of real practical importance,—results which would ing to follow. It is opposed to the very nature of man to B ultimately conduce to the comfort and convenience of their submit to others, however much it may be to his advan- B fellows. Indeed the age in which they lived seems to have tage. Not to revenge, but to forgive; to submit to being B been unfavorable for the prosecution of practical science, called a coward when fighting against our pride; to sub- H The philosophers and learned men of the day, who should mlt to insult and abuse,'while men taunt us, and nature B have profited by the study of phenomena which in modern teaches us to revenge ourselves. Still this is a true saying, H times have been fruitful in such important consequences, that-you must learn to be humble and lowly if you would H disdained to stoop to anything like physical experiments succeed. For if a man values himself as little, when he is Bor chemical manipulation. Tne common people were inworthy of respect and esteem, he will be more thought of B capable of taking advantage of what the philosophers
than he who, worth little, claims respect when it is not his B passed over untried and almost unnoticed. Princes, as a due. The proud man is always a fool, let him have all B rule, were too intently engaged in pursuits of a far differ- . the perfections and good qualities possible; for in beingHent nature to lend a favorable hand to what would not proud he is a fool. Heis proud of what is worth little, B visibly and immediately further their own private interests, and he claims respect for his folly from others, yet never H flatter their pride, or satisfy their insatiable craving for receives it; whereas the meek and humble man, whoH conquest and supreme dominion. The worth of men of knows his worth, yet remembering is humble, is loved and H genius can be rightly estimated only by their peers. Many respected by all. The proud man is nearly always forget-Hof the ancient kings and princes were as ignorant as the ful of his fellows, and when he does notice them it is with H meanest of their subjects. Others, who were really men of scorn and indifference; he never lends a helping hand to a H learning and ability, adopted the same mode of thinking suffering brother, while the humble man assists and com- Has the philosophers. .Others again were entirely opposed forts such a one, knowing that he some day may want the H to the study of science, or of a diffusion of scientific knowl-same comfort and aid himself. The proud man is hated H edge among their subjects. We have an illustration of for his pride and haughtiness by all, while the humble man H this in the case of Diocletian, who ordered all the writings is loved and respected for his kindness and gentleness, for H of the Egyptians treating on alchemy and chemistry to be no one ever lost the respect of a wise man by doing a H burned, thinking that their acquaintance with these ’ humble kindness.	Hsciences enabled them to transmute the baser metals into
We are told to go to the dove for innocence, to the lion B gold, and thus procure supplies during their rebellions for valor, to the serpent for wisdom, but to God for hu-H against his government. Another familiar instance of this mility. Perfect humility belongs to God alone, and He E kind, of a somewhat later date, was the burning of the has given us an example of it in His life. Christ de- B famous Alexandrian Library by command of the Caliph dares for the publican’s humility rather than for the Phar- H Omar, A. D. 640.
isee’s boastings; and He says: “ Learn of Me, for I am g Moreover the ancients cultivated, as a rule, the pleasing meek and humble of heart;” and, “ Blessed are the Harts, as sculpture, painting, poetry, music, etc., entirely dis-meek, for they shall possess the land.” So we see that H regarding what would conduce to the convenience and both God and man teach that humility is the better H comforts of domestic life. They labored for immortality, course. The proud man is always hated and feared while H and they considered the surer road to this much-coveted on this earth, though men may seem to respect and es- El goal to be that of literature and art. Perhaps the pre- . teem him; and he will be forgotten when he is gone, un-E cariousness of the success in practical scientific investiga-less he maybe remembered and held up as an example Etions, no less than the low esteem in which such pursuits of a proud man, -who was hated by all. But the humble B were held, deterred them from trusting their fame to in-
THE SCHOLASTIC,
Ventions anddisco veries possible indeed, but still uncertain.
But if we deem ourselves justified in condemning the speculative tendency given to science by the philosophers of antiquity, we must nevertheless admit that some of their theories were really ingenious, and even correct. As an instance, we may mention the theory of the universe, as propounded by Pythagoras, B. C. 540, and more fully’ developed by his followers, especially Philolaus, who first declared that the earth had an annual motion around the sun, and Hicetas of Syracuse, Heraclides, and others, who asserted, that besides this, the earth has a diurnal motion on its own axis. We may also here notice their system concerning the ultimate constitution of matter, as it is now pretty well agreed that the real founders of the Atomic Philosophy were the ancient philosophers of the Eleatic school. The first to propose the Atomic theory—-more fully enunciated by Dalton at the beginning of the present century, aud since that time the means of clearing away many of the difficulties of chemical science—was Lecucippus, a disciple of Zeno. He lived about 500 years before the Christian era, and the chief supporters of j his doctrine were two of his disciples, Democritus, com' tnonly known as the laughing philosopher, and Epicurus. Indeed in reading what these philosophers have left us concerning their ideas of the ultimate particles of matter, we are almost led to believe that the modern expounders of this most convenient theory have copied nearly word for word from their predecessors of 2,000 years ago.
But notwithstanding the correctness of the doctrines of the ancient philosophers in particular instances,—as in the two just cited,—the deleterious influence which their various systems exerted on the advancement of science was felt for many ages afterwards. After the mighty geniuses of antiquity had passed away—when the golden ages of Greece and Rome were no more—the study of the physical sciences, as indeed of all science, was almost entirely neglected. But as the last glimmerings of science were fast disappearing from the western horizon, soon to leave all the nations of Europe in comparative darkness, at least as far as the study of physical science was concerned a new light was observed in the east. The Arabs, who had extended their conquests over the fairest provinces of Asia and Africa, revived the last faint sparks of European learn;	ing, and soon became the most zealous promoters of science
and literature. Haroun Al Raschid assembled about him in his court at Bagdad learned men from all nations, and had them to translate into the Arabic and Syriac languages the books on science and art which thejr had procured from the Christians. What was done by Haroun Al-Raschid in * the East was imitated by Abderame, also a Mussulman prince, in the West He established schools at Cordova, in Spain, not inferior to those founded by the philomathic Caliphs of the Orient. From these famous seats of learning —the Athens and the Rome of that epoch—was it that the Europeans derived their knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences, particularly algebra, geometry, chemistry and astronomy.
[ But why, it may be asked, was the progress of the 5	sciences so backward among the nations of Europe, whilst
■	they were flourishing with such lustre among the Moslems
| of the Eastern and Western Empires? This is a question which as been often asked and often as answered. Many . have said—and. strange to say, there are yet found persons
। even in our enlightened nineteenth century who blush not-i to repeat this imputation—that the Church was the causs of the retardation of scientific progress, because, say they,-। she laid restrictions on the investigations of men of science, lest perchance they might discover aught which would conflict with the teachings of revelation. How absurd how unfounded such a charge, is patent to all. To one in the least conversant with ecclesiastical or profane history this is nothing less than a foul calumny fabricated by those who, having little or no regard for truth, would have others as contradictory and inconsistant as themselves. Was the Church so benighted as not to know that truths of revelation and the conclusions of science, when logically deduced, can never disagree? For as Cardinal Wiseman in his learned work on “ Science and Revealed Religion,” justly observest “If we are firmly convinced that God is as much the author of our religion as He is of nature, we must also be thoroughly assured that the comparison of His work in both orders must necessarily give a uniform result?’ “The laws of physical science,” says Lord Bacon, “are none other than the voice of God revealed in facts.” “ Fo« \-Dei in relnis reeelata.”	:	-
The Church, then, they would have us believe was afraid that the law of God. immediately revealed, would be found to contravene that which is made known to us only indirectly I by the study of natural phenomena, or, more plainly, she was apprehensive of finding God the author of a contradiction! What puerility! Risumfenetdis, amice?" If particular in-’ stances are sometimes met with in which the inferences of science seem to be at variance with the facts of Divine revelation, we must attribute this discrepancy to a mistake ! in the former or a misapprehension of the latter. So the-[Church has ever acted. When geologists, for instance, declared that the Mosaic cosmogony could not be accepted,' because disproved by the facts of geological science, it showed nothing more than that they had misinterpreted the texts of Scripture, upon which they rested their objection, and had, consequently, raised a difficulty which st right understanding of the terms therein employed immediately removes. But, as our modern savants would have us believe, the doctors of the Church, composed as they were of the most learned men of their time, were ignorant of this. An age which produced such mighty geniuses as Albertus Magnus, St. Thomas Aquinas'and others, and gave birth to the most famous universities now in Europe,—Oxford, Cambridge, Paris, Lyons, Padua, and others, scarce less celebrated—was not ignorant of a truth comprehensible by every child that has attained the age of reason, viz.: God cannot contradict Himself—He cannot affirm and deny the same thing. But our adversaries insist. They bring forward particular instances—in vain, however,—to prove'their rash assertion viz.: that the Church opposed the diffusion of scientific knowledge, and that the Popes, by restricting its study within certain limits, retarded its progress' until the dawn of the sixteenth century, when was ushered into the world an era <f liberty of thought and free investigation. They all, without exception, recur to the case of Galileo—a particular hobby of theirs, it would seem—to prove their point. But if they peruse attentively any reliable history of Galileo, they will find that all the foundation which their objection has is a mere mass of distorted facts and malicious misrepresentations. Were we to give ear to some of our modem biographers of Galileo, we would be forced to con-
I
86
THE SCHOLASTIC.
hide he was a “ martyr of science,” that he was imprisoned, Is of Galileo’s life, but our reasons for so doing were because ortured and persecuted even unto death by the unrelent- q it is always referred to by anti-Catholic writers to prove ing Inquisition, and that, too, for maintaining the doctrine g that the Popes were the enemies of learning and scientific of the Earth’s rotation. But as the real facts of the ease E advancement; and also because in the same manner can be> have it, Galileo was neither imprisoned, tortured nor per- H answered all objections of a similar nature. Those who gecutedand still more, his system was not condemned. ■ desire to know more fully the particulars of the case will The imprisonment of Galileo was nothing more than three fl find an able article on the subject in the Catholic World, days’ detention in the Holy Office during the process of E Vol. VIII, Nos. 45 and 4&, which will remove all doubt as his examination, where, as he himself says, he was treated fl to the statements, which we have been compelled to em-with the greatest possible hindness and regard. During-fl body in the smallest space possible.
the rest of his stay in Rome he remained at the palace of H ' A word more, and we shall have finished this portion the Tuscan embassador, where the most sumptuous apart- E of our essay. We think our adversaries have been most ments were assigned him, and where he enjoyed the most E unfortunate in the choice of a subject to prove their point perfect liberty. The torture so often referred to is noth- g for in .connection with Galileo the student of scientific his ing but the fabrication of those who have shown themselves ■ twy will naturally be led to read the story of his great either to have had but little regard for the truth, or to E contemporaries, Kepler, Tycho Brahe and Descartes. The have been wofully ignorant of the real state of the case. E former—whose contributions to astronomical and physical If Galileo was so tortured as historians generally represent E science are second only to Newton himself—was compelled him to have been, why is it that he never says even a word K by the Protestant theologians of Tubingen to flee from his about it in any of the numerous letters which he after- K home and seek an asylum in the Jesuit college at Gretz. wards wrote to his friends? and how is it that, all the E Here, on account of his eminent scientific attainments, he original documents'of his trial are silent on this subject ? E secured a professorship, although an avowed Lutheran. Evidently because such a thing never occurred. Again, E Tycho Brahe also, the-eekbrated Danish astronomer, after Galileo was not condemned for defending the system of the having his- property confiscated, was banished by the Earth’s rotation. In the first place this system was not || Lutheran court of Denmark and forced to take refuge in a original with him, but was that of Pj thagoras, not K foreign land, Kepler was exiled for holding the doctrine long before revived by a Polish priest, Copernicus, and»^of the Earth’s revolution around thesun;andtheonlyrea-developed within the very walls of Rome itself. Indeed g sons assigned for the shameful treatment of Tycho Brahe the work of Copernicus—“De Dtrolutionibug"—in which E were that the-treasury was exhausted and his studies this theory was put forth, was dedicated to no less a per-1| ngetegg. The same can be s tid of D .-scartes who, on ac-sqnage than the head of the Church, Pope Paul III. P count of his scientific pursuits was forced to undergo the Moreover, this was the theory most generally adopted by E persecutions of the Protestant theologians oi Holland, the greatest scientists of the age. It \vas taught through - E These facts certainly do not accord very well with that li-out Italy, France, Spain, Germany, more than three quar- fl berty of thought and scientific inquiry which our modern ters of a century before Galileo was summoned befere the E anti-Catholic controversialists pretend were granted to the tribunal of the Inquisition. Besides, Pope Urban VIII, g nations of Europe by the Reformers, of the 16th century, who at this time occupied the chair of Peter, and all the g We think the above-mentioneel faets,so well authenticated', principal members of his court, as well as the most distiu-g conclusively prove, without further comment, that the guished among the Cardinals, were adherents of the Coper- fl Church has not been an enemy of progress and scientific mean system.. They could not, then, condemn a system fl research, and consequently that the objections drawn from upheld by Galileo, without at the same time condemning E particular instances are entirely foreign to the question or that which they themselves maintained.	g	have no other foundation- than a bjld misrepresentation of
But then the question arises: Why was Galileo brought § facts or a shameless denial of truth.
before the Inquisition, if not for defending the doctrine of fl	(to be continued.)
the Earth’s rotation? Because he -went beyond his sphere, fl	------------- ------------
Instead of confining himself within the limits of scientific M —Mgr. Deschamps, Archbishop of Malines, has ad-inquiry, he wished to meddle with Scripture. To interpet E dressed to the clergy of his Diocese an important instruc-Scripture dogmatically is the exclusive right of the B tion relating to the performance of ecclesiastical music Church. Anyone may comment on Scripture, if he wishes, fl from which we extract the following:	•
leaving, however, his works subject to the supervision of fl 5. The words which are sung should always agree with the proper authorities; but when he presumes to teach g the spirit of the Church and the office she is celebrating, those who should be his masters, or advance doctrines con-H They may not be taken from anjr other source than the trary to those universally received by the Church, his con- fl Holy Scriptures, the Missal, the Breviary, or other Litur-duct is at once censured, and his doctrine condemned. B gieal books. .
Such was the case with Galileo., He was summoned be- fl Besides this, it is necessary to be careful that the words fore the Inquisition, not for upholding the doctrine of the fl sung should be perfectly and distinctly heard.
.Earth’s rotation, but on account of the heretical tendency fl It is forbidden to make use of the vulgar tongue during .of some of his interpretations of Scripture. Had he heark- fl the Liturgical offices. It is only before and after any office ened to the oft-repeated advice of Bellarmine, “ to confine fl that the vulgar tongue may be, employed in singing.
himself within his mathematical studies, without interfer-fl 6. The singing of the Introit, the Offertory, and the ing with the Scripture,” he might have continued his H music which takes place after the .Elevaton and during the .scientific pursuits, as did his predecessors Copernicus and fl Communion, ought not to be prolonged so as to cause the many, others, without contradiction, at least by eccle’siasti-fl priest to wait, and interrupt the celebration of the Holy cal authority, and without molestation.	fl Sacrifice.
We have spoken somewhat diffusely of this circumstance B The music of the Gloria and Credo and the motets at
THE SCHOLASTIC.
ST
Benediction ought to be so regulated that the Mass, exclus- ■ sequence is, that parents are unwilling to impose upon I've of the sermon, shall not ekceed one hour, and Benedic- 3 their often overtasked boys a study which' for some' years tion three-quarters of ala hohr. Experience proves that a 9 must necessarily be tiresome, and to most children unin-too protracted service is Very hurtful to the piety of the 9 teresting. The frequently adopted plan of waiting to see faithful.	9 whether children ‘ have any taste ’ or ‘ show any love ’ for
8.	If during processions and other offices instr Amenia 3 music is a wrong one. Ito child would prefer practicing "music is employed without singing, it is necessary that the H scales to playing ball; and few boys, if the cultivation'of pieces executed be grave, worthy of the majesty of God, 9 their tastes depended upon the whims of their ever-flying and of a nature to nourish piety. They must not be of such 9 fancies, would turn into educated men. First give them an immeasurable length as to engender ennui. '	- 9 the opportunity of forming a taste, and for its development
9.	From religious music all that is foreign to the aim 9 trust to the aesthetic element of their nature. Thisprin-which religion proposes must be banished, all that also 9cipie once recognized, as it is to a very great extent on the
which only tends to show off the talent of the performers, or to satisfy curiosity and musical sensualism.
10.	The organ-loft being primarily and solely destined for the organists, the choir, the musicians and their assistants, all access thereto is strictly forbidden to others, unless the parish priest judge that necessity or just reason require the contrary. Silence must be strictly and constantly preserved there.
11.	It is not permitted to women to sing the praises of •God or to touch the organ, except in churches' and chapels belonging to nuns or congregation's of women.
12.	The clergy appointed to churches and chapels ought I to explain these present statutes to the chapel-master, the I choristers, and the musicians. They ought to recommend to all those whom it may concern to bear constantly in mind the end which the Church has in view in admitting singing and music into the Lhurgy. •
They are bound also to see that the blameless lives of the choristers and the musicians may do honor to the House of God and Holy Church.
*
—Under the head of “Musical Education in America" a writer in Appleton's Journal declares that we Americans imagine ourselves making wonderful progress in the culture of music, whereas in reality our growth in musical enthusiasm is but popular belief formed by inadequate observation. He asks what system should we adopt in our hopes for the ultimate advance of musical taste? What plan for the cultivation of an art the pursuit of which develops and calls into play all nature’s finer feelings and emotions? Can we hope to transmit to future generations a taste or tendency which, in view of its many elevating influences, could almost be termed a blessing? To this we answer, ‘ Yes.’ What we at first require is an acknowledgment from the educated portion of our community that music has a value beyond the mere charm of an accomplishment ; that it should be part of a man’s education, as much as Latin or geometry. In all of our schools we should have music taught in a thorough and systematic manner.. To many it might be an uninteresting study, but to few a useless one; for, if they did not in after-years continue the actual practice of music, there might still be a possibility of retaining that appreciation of its value which would lead their children to cultivate what they themselves had neglected.
“ This might be a slow process by which to raise and to create musical standards, but who could doubt of its being a sure one? We can not suddenly make a musical nation of America by symphony concerts, regimental bands, and national jubilees. At present music is looked upon as such an entirely unnecessary accomplishment that our private schools give it no attention, and allow no extra time to such of their pupils, as undertake the study. The-con-
continent of Europe to-day, would, ere many years, insure to music an important place in the education and estimation of Americans. Then, and not till then, shall we feel in their full power those refining and civilizing influences which music, like all beautiful arts, brings to those whb award her the place which her votaries hope and believe she will yet hold in the New World, as she does in the Old.”
I	Oxford.
I A writer in the London Register, speaking of Oxford, I says:
Term has begun; and a certain number of members of the University have indulged themselves, as they do three times a year, in service in “ an unknown tongue ” at St. Mary’s Church. Sermon, Litany and Communion Service are all, for the nonce, in Latin. The preacher gets a handsome fee, and the congregation get, certainly, no spiritual food, and very little aliment of any kind. However, it is a time-honored custom, if few but Time think of honoring it; and, there is no doubt, to many of the auditory a soupfon of that interest attached, to stolen waters in listening to a service in a language “not undecsUnded of the people.”	'	■	•
Latin, your readers will say, ought to be well understood in Oxford; alas I it is not so. Many ludicrous positions have Oxford tutors found themselves in when travelling abroad, and endeavoring to converse with “foreigners” in that language which they have professed to learn and to teach for so many years. Indeed, in Oxford itself the difficulty of speaking ift Latin is constantly felt. Formerly all the debates in Convocation were in Latin; that is to say, the debates were confined within the narrowest possible limits, and an altercation was practically impossible. Not many years ago, Mr. Keble and another leader of the High Church party came up to speak against some new “ Liberal ” measure, and went into the Convocation House with Latin speeches carefully prepared. Few more finished Latin scholars were to be found than Mr. Keble, but his natural diffidence made him tremble for the-result. However, as he said, to his great relief, no sooner did the ViceChancellor put the question than the Professor of Latin, got up and begged leave to speak in English!
I was asked the other day by an eminent German litterateur whether his native tongue was taught in Oxford as part of the University curriculum. I was obliged to say that only Latin and Greek were compulsory. Indeed, a German in Oxford who knew no language but his own would find very few people with whom he could converse.	'
—A few years ago a hungry crowd sat down at the well-spread supper table of a Sound steamer, upon which one of the dishes contained a trout of moderate size. A serious looking indivdual drew this dish toward him, saying, apologetically, “ This is a fast day with me.” His next neighbor, an Irish gentleman, immediately inserted his fork into the fish, and transferred it to his own plate/remarking, “ Sir, do you suppose nobody has a sowl to be saved but yourself ? ”
W8
THE SCHOLASTIC
Th® Suhiilasth.
Published every Week during Term Time ail
KOTBE DAME UNIVERSITY. I
' All communications should be sent, to Editor Scholastic! Notre Dame, Indiana.	'	।
-	■ .	TMM8:	I
One year..........................51 CO I
- ' Single copies (5cts.) csn be obtained at the Stsdenta’ Office. j
Death of Bev, IT. H. Gillespie, C. 8, C. I
This day two weeks ago, with a sorrowful heart, we I chronicled the death of Bev. Father Lemonnier. To-day I we announce the death of one who has been identified I with the history of Notre Dame-^an announcement which I will cause many a tear to flow.	|
On Thursday last, at twenty-five minutes past eight, I Bev. Father Gillespie breathed his last. He had been I ailing for very nearly a year, and in January last he was I not expected to live. He however overcame that attack E of sickness, and his numerous friends hoped he would be I long spared to them. But his disease had not been entirely I conquered. He suffered daily from it, until last summer, I when he relinquished, his duties for a short while, and 0 'sought relief among his friends and relations in Lancaster, I Ohio. There he had another severe attack and was again g brought to death’s door, but recovered sufficiently to return I to Notre Dame. He then went to Chicago, where he | consulted the best medical men of the city, but obtained I no relief from- them. Beturning to Notre Dame, be was E associated in the Chaplaincy at St. Mary’s. Here his] illness continued to increase and though be was attended E by the faithful religious there, many of whom were his i own relations, little hope of his recovery was entertained.! . This was in September last, and every day since his return ] has been one of most intense suffering. His physician, Dr. E Cassidy, of South Bend, was still in hopes of saving his life. | An abscess had-formed in the groin, and it was supposed! •that if he would have the strength to bear the lancing of E it he would recover. But he was so reduced by his suffer- g ings that on Sunday last when the operation was per- g formed he had scarcely six pounds of flesh upon him. I From the time of the lancing he sank, gradually until last | Thursday morning when he died..	g
. Rev. Neal Henry Gillespie, was born at Brownsville, | Pennsylvania, in the year 1832, and was consequently, at| the time of his death, in his forty-second year. His early | years, so we learn from the Silver Jubilee, were passed at g Lancaster, Ohio, and without incident beyond the usual I catalogue of events common to youth, whose chief oecupa- B lion i» to attend school and prepare themselves for useful-1 ness inafter-life. He was among the first students who E entered the University of Notre Dame. In this Institution | he completed his studies, and in June 1849 be received the | degree of A. B., being the first graduate, in course, of the ] University. In the year 1851 he entered the Novitiate of] the Congregation of the Holy Cross, and began his theo- ] logical* studies. After finishing his novitiate, being yet] ■too young to make his profession, he taught a class of ] mathematics in the College. . In the year 1854, having |
I made in the previous year his religious profession, he was sent by his Superior to Borne, to complete his theological! course in the celebrated schools of the Eternal City. This he did in the following years, and was ordained priest on I the 34th day of June, lg56.
Having returned to Notre Dame, Father Gillespie was appointed Vice-President and Director of Studies in 185$, which position he occupied with ability and success until 11859, when he was appointed President of. the College of i St. Mary’s of the Lake, Chicago, Ill. In the.year 1860 he? was recalled to Notre Dame and again filled the post’of Vice-President, which he did as before with great energy and success. In the year 186J, the Very Rev. Superior General called Father Gillespie to Paris, where he resided i one year. Then being summoned to the Mother-House aft ;Mans, he remained there until 1866, when he returned to Notre Dame. On bis return he was appointed Editor of the “Ate Maria” and in 1868 was appointed Master of Novices. He filled this position in addition to his duties as Editor, for three years, when at his own request he was relieved in order io devote al) his time to ibe “Ate Maria” For eight years he edited the “Ave Maria” with distinguished ability, and relinquished his work only when it waa impossible for him by reason of his sickness to prosecut® it further.
Father Gillespie was a man of great energy and enthusiasm. In his younger days, when a student*, he was one of the originators and a most prominent member of the St. Aloysius’Debating Society, and bis attachment for this Society remained with him through after life. There was nothing which was in his power that he would not do for the Societies, even in late years, and to him are the members of the Societies indebted for help ahd.counse).	.
He was an ardent student of history and, in order to encourage this study, he founded, while Vice-President of the College, the “Historical Society," which after many years of usefulness was united to the St. Aloysius’ Society,
It was to the efforts of Father Gillespie that the semimonthly publication called the “Progress” owed its success. This periodical, which rarely- passed beyond the manuscript, and which was read publicly before the students of the College, was, under his direction and management, conducted with great success, and ctasid only to make its regular app< arance when Father G illespk Ts obedience called him to France. On his return from France he found a printing office at Notre Dame, established there by Very Rev. E, Sorin, for the publication of the “Ace Maria” Ever zealous for the literary welfare of the studmts, he easily found means of procuring the issue of another paper from the same office, devoted to the interests of the students, and to which the title of Scholastic Year was given. This was in 1867. The title was afterwards changed to The Scholastic, and with the exception of one year, during which time Rev. Father Lemonnier had charge, and of three months during which Rev. Father Brown had control, Father Gillespie has had the management of the paper, and relinquished this charge in September, when his health would not admit of his further work.
Rev. Father Gillespie was the first Director of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society after its organization by Prof, Lyons in 1859, and to him are the members of the Society indebted for many acts of kindness and encouragement.
SCHOLASTIC.
99

' He always showed great delight in encouraging and help- jg of such deaths, however, that whatever loss they may seem tor iug the younger students of the College, and bv none will » bring, they may well be taken, when viewed in a proper light, ’.he be more regretted than by the old members of St las dccided	only for those whose apparently prema-
Cecilia	'	k tUre demi3e we deplore, but also for the Commnnity Which prem .1	..	• -to/M C T. .1	■	pared them for a better life.
To the exertions in 1861 of Father Gillespie is due the S This morningi at our Dear Rev	Kather	H Q e
formation of the Thespian Association, for it was he who 9 eSp-ired at St Mary.?j forlified by tbe	of onr	Holy
first gave them a regular organization. To his training g church and the fervent and unceasing prayers of the Common-are many persons now engaged in the professions indebted 3 ity.- Far several months he had been subjected to intense and for their knowledge of elocution.	almost uninterrupted pains, which he bore with such heroic pa-
He was always ready to forward the plans of our musical § tience and such evident marks of piety that we may truly say: teachers in arousing the enthusiasm of their pupils and in ® where our sorrow abounds, our consolation abounds more, and encouraging the pupils themselves to greater exertions. H eaceecls all regrets.	*
But while aiding the literary, dramatic and musical societies, S For	state from personal experience that I.
, x °	„ as never witnessed a more edifying scene, or a death that filled my
, he was at the same time no less active in the behalf of the	,	,	...	, „
, newuv uuvumu uu	‘	® soul with greater hope and more perfect assurance; and far
religious. While a student of Notre Dame, he had at-»from seeing in this additional bereavement a reason to doubt tached himself to the Archconfraternity of the Blessed ja the efiicacy of our prayers to the Holy Mother of God, I freely Virgin Mary, and to the Nocturnal Adoration Society, and confess an increase of confidence in her power and. tenderness, he did not neglect when he entered into office to encourage ® as I remain fully convinced she has done more than we asked

the students to join them. In 1850 he established for the t0'vard;i th<we whom we wished to recover.
younger students the Sodality of the Holy Angels. In ■ 1858, this Sodality having ceased to exist, was then again! ■ organized by Prof. Lyons, and from them the servers in I . the sanctuary have been taken. -
. Father Gillespie was a man of great modesty. There! are few men who have done so much work and who, from! those outside of the Community,-have received less credit for it. It was his own humility which was the cause of j this. We doubt whether his name has occurred more j than once in the pages of the “Ave Maria” although he| was connected with it for eight years. Nor has his name I appeared over four or five times in the Scholastic during | its whole existence. At the commencement of the year,« when his name .was mentioned in a short personal, he was | not at all pleased. Yielding to the entreaties of hist .many.friends, we noticed his sickness a few weeks ago. I .Knowing his dislike to having his name in print, we hesi-1 tated for a long time to make the announcement; and we 5 . will never forget the injured look with which he greeted j us after having seen it.	■
Father Gillespie’s piety was thorough and sincere. He a
a Father Gillespie was in his forty-second year, and his Frofes-E sion dated from the 15th of August, 1853i We certainly have H reason to believe that by such long and painful sufferings, so K admirably endured, he satisfied in a great measure even the H most rigorous demands of Divine Justice, and qualified himself a for a no distant enjoyment of eternal bliss.	•
3 While we pray for his precious soul, let us try to secure to ■ ourselves the unspeakable blessing to die the same most consol-m ing death. Jiequieseat in pace.- -
3, His funeral took place this (Siturday) morning, at nine 3 o’clock. A solemn requiem Mass was sung, attended by ■ many pries s, his friends through life and his mourners in ■ death. We will give a full account of the obsequies in our ■ next issue.
Our Lists.
As may be seen by the advertisement of The Scholastic, its chief object is to keep the- parents and friends of the students of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s informed on the various subjects of study and discipline, and of the progress made by the students. This is not the only object
was not one of those persons who exhibit their piety and g for which The Scholastic is published. It is published religion to every person; but those who saw the resigna- to accustom the students to newspaper writing, and to tion and submission with which he bore his intense suffer® furnish to those who were formerly students of the Uniings know well the sincerity of his faith and the firmness”^ versity and who are now in the busy world outside, with of his hope. Although his. pains were most excruciating, S an the College news. But the chief object of our paper is and, in the words of his physician, “enough to haveBto let parents and guardians know of the progress and killed four men, months ago,” he never allowed a single » standing of their children or wards, etc. Such having been word of complaint to escape his lips.	®announced as the object of the piper, it is not right for
The last articles which he wrote for the “Art Marin" m persons to complain of our publishing long lists or rolls were, “Surprising—Is it not?” and the short extract, ® of honor.
“ Gratitude to the Souls in Purgatory,” from Father Mum- g The mere mention of names is not to be confounded, as ford’s work. His devotion to the Blessed Virgin was ar-g90ine hypercritical people have imagined, with the giving dent and sincere, aud his last original piece of writing was g of priZes. We distinguish between a prize and an honorin her honor. No doubt but that she will reward him for S abie mention. The first is given to the most proficient in it in heaven. The last extract which he copied while ® the ciass; the latter is given to those whose study and prog-racked with pain was one on prayers for the dead. Let us ® re9s have been satisfactory to all their teachers.
follow the instructions of this article, and pray fervently a however, this honorable mention is not equal to a for the repose of his soul.	.	®	prize, it is not for this reason to be treated lightly, and as
The Very Rev. Superior General of the Congregation m of little use; nor can any student of the University, or of the Holy Cross, in his circular announcing the death of 3 parent interested therein, ignore its importance. The Rev. Father Gillespie to the Community, says:	S	manner in which these mentions are given will be sufficient
“ Another death has thinned our ranks. Indeed, of late, I have II to satisfy any one of their importance.
appeared before the Congregation but as the herald of death;® The members of the Faculty, and all these who have
• ■
THE SCHOLASTIC/
90
aught to do with the students,—some forty in number,— assemble once a week in the faculty-chamber for the purpose of making out their lists of Class Honors, etc. At these meetings the name of each student in the College is read twice: the first time for study, and the second time for discipline. One dissenting voice is sufficient to prevent the name of a student from appearing on either of the lists. Surely that student must be worthy of praise when among some forty professors, tutors and prefects, there is no one found to object to him for conduct or for recitation; and he mtist be worthy of an honorable mention.
It is true that these lists are sometimes long—much longer than those given in some other colleges; but so likewise is the list of students attending Notre Dame. If we have a large number of students attending class, a largelist should be expected. Some colleges have not adopted this system of encouraging -emulation among- their students, but this may not be the only point of difference between Notre Dame and other colleges. That parents appreciate the value of these lists may be found in the fact that the parents of nearly all the students here subscribe to The Scholastic; that our other real friends do not complain is evidenced by the fact that every day our subscription list is increased, and that our'circulation equals almost one thousand copies weekly. -
△ Letter from Very Zev. Father General.
- Notre Dame, Nov. Sth, 1874. Very Rev. Father Provincial, Notre Dame.
. Very Rev. Dear Father:—Were it not contrary to rule, I would certainly reply to the Associations of the Institution to thank them for the touching notices and resolutions which appeared in the Scholastic of yesterday, on Rev. Father Lemonnier’s death and burial service.
I cannot, however, let such expressions of sympathy pass unheeded; and I now beg of-your Reverence to convey them my heartfelt thanks for the beautiful tokens of affection and
• esteem with which they have honored the memory of their

lamented President, I know for certain that his relatives in B France will be very sensibly affected by the same. As to me, I g will not say they have reopened the wound, for I only begin to n ' realize my loss; every day since the burial deepens my sorrow ■ and regret. But I wish the honorable Faculty and the Associa- S tions of the College to accept my unfeigned thanks for the I -balm of consolation they have afforded my distressed soul. I
I would not have dared, even after bis demise, to state- his I personal merits as they have; and yet I can scarcely refrain from subscribing to their declarations ; for I honestly believe he was, or would soon have been, what they represented him. I fully coincide with them when they assert that the Congrega. tion has sustained, in Father Lemonnier’s premature death, a sad and serious loss, which shall be felt especially here ; for had he lived, he would have very probably brought out Notre Dame to a conspicuous rank among the Institutions of the land. - His whole soul was here ; his whole heart was set on Notre Dame, .its students, its patrons, and friends. During the past two years he never ceased to urge a considerable enlargement in its buildings, a beginning of which had been promised him for next spring. But there is one thing in particular which, as a last request, I feel bound to respect; a dying friend’s wish presents itself to the living with a special sacredness, claiming, as it were imperiously, an undelayed satisfaction. It was on the eve of his death, as your Reverence is already aware, that he intreated me not to refuse the Blessed Virgin the fulfilment of a promise he . had made her with your consent and mine, viz.: to erect here, if he should be restored, a Chapel of Our Lady of Lourdes ; “For,” . said he,- “ although I am not going to be cured, I owe her more for dying as I do, than even for a longer life.”
I promised him to see to it; and he. seemed to feel much re' joiced. It was the last consolation I could give him.
I now beg of you to Communicate the same to the. various Commitees whose names appear at the bottom of the resolutions, and to form among them a special Board of five members, to help your Reverence in putting up said Chapel. I need not add that it should be in every way the gem of Notre Dame, a real monument, somewhat in keeping with the countless favors already obtained throughout the couiitry by Our Lady of Lourdes, and-a fit acknowledgment of the gratitude so uni vet-sally felt by our Catholic population at large.	-
Besides the general sympathy of the country, I have reasons to believe that many personal friends of the dear departed will gladly avail themselves of this opportunity to testify their regard for the honor of his memory,	•
Allow me to subscribe, in the name of his sister in France, $500 towards the erection of the above votive -Chapel of Our Lady of Lourdes. I feel confident of your promptly realizing the necessary funds for the undertaking; for no other name will awake around you more gratitude or better will. Its place is already marked in the plan of the new Church, namely, immediately behind the sanctuary.	-
Very sincerely, yours, etc.,
_	E. Sorin, C. S. C.
P. S.—Since inditing the above, I am happy to inform your Reverence of the receipt from Rome of a special Brief conferring on the Establishment of the Confraternity of O”.r Lady of Lourdes hire, the same indulgences and privileges as at Lourdes; you will please forward it to Fort Wayne, for the usual Episcopal recognition, before you publish it. E. S.
Personal
—Geo. Darr, of’72, is still in Cincinnati, Ohio.
—	E. B. Gambee, of ’72, is in San Francisco, Cal.
—	Rev. J. McManus, of ’63, is in Columbus, Miss.
—	Rev. E. Mears, of ’63, is pastor in Belbone, Ohio,
—	L. B. Logan, of’70, is practicing law in Cleveland.
—	Michael Toohey, of’60, is in business in St. Louis, Mo.
—	Jno. Dillon, of ’64, is in the P. 0. Department, Chicago.	'
—	Rev. P. Reardon, of ’57, is pastor of St. James’ Church Chicago, 111.	•
—	Phil Cochrane, of ’72, is with H. n. Schufildt & Co., Chicago, Ill.
—	T. D. Flanigen of '73 is in the P. 0. Department, Nashville, Tenn.
—	Rev. P. Conway, of ’57, is pastor of St. Patrick’s Church, Chicago, 111.	*
—	Charley Hutchings, of ’72, is in business with his father in Brooklyn, N. T.
—	Jim Noonan, of’72, is in the Engineer Dept, of the L. S. and M. S. R. R., Cleveland.
—	Chas. Hibben is with his father in the grocery business Chicago. So also is his brother Louis.
—	Rev. W. Elliott is with the Paulists; so also is Rev. L. Rosecrans, both of whom were students of Notre Dame.
—	Capt. Ed Streatch, of’64, with his cargo, was wrecked on the coast of Ireland. Happily, Ed escaped a watery grave.	.
—	Geo. Mayer, of ’64, spent the day with us last Sunday. He reports all well in Fort Wayne. We understand that George intends making a “ new departure ” in his manner of housekeeping. .
—	“ Charles J. Dodge, son of Gen. Dodge, of Burlington, and Valedictorian of Class ’74, of Notre Dame University, Ind., is one of the promising students of this year’s Law Class.—Iowa, University Reporter.
—	Rev. Father Byrne, of Toledo, Ohio, and M. T. Carr, of ’72, Editor of the Toledo Review, spent Wednesday last at the College and St. Mary’s. Mr. Carr is succeeding excel-ently well with his journal, which is a wide-awake weekly.
THE SCHOLASTIC,
61
Local Items
—Turkey soon.
—“ Bounce him.”
—Trees are leafless.
. —Delicious weather.
—Where are the footballs?
—Subscriptions come in daily.
—Plenty of visitors every day.
—Overcoats are in great demand.	"
—The Juniors claim the Best boy.
—The “lazy list” is not very large	•
—Beat forts for soldiers—comforts.
—A favorite American letter—An X.
—The chimes are not in running order yet.	‘ ’
—Our “box in the hall” has been ornamented
. —Plenty of experiments in the Chemistry-room.
—The plumbers have been repairing the steam-pipes.
—The hands were put on the church clock on Tuesday.
—Bro. Louis is building an addition to the Post Office.
—The College Library is open every day from 3Xto
P.M. ■	.	"
—When will the new’ scenery .in Washington Hall be finished?	.
—Carpenter, the hatter, has removed to 105 Michigan street.	[<>24-lm
—“Joseph” wants to know how “James” is these times ?
—The wash-room at the Manual Labor School has been renovated, etc.
t

*
—The Excelsiors hold two meetings regularly on days of rec-to raise funds.	- a
—The w’orkmen have been busy fixing the ventilators s in the wash-rooms.	■ i
—New goods always on hand at Carpenter’s, 105 Michi-1
gan street.
[o24 Im
—A memorial chapel to Rev. Father Lemonnier is to be erected just back of the sanctuary of the new church.
—The new organ which is to be placed in the new church
will be ready next May. Mr. House, of Erie, Pa., is building it.
—“What can be the matter with my hands ?” said onen> „	.	..	,....	...	, .. -
Junior to another the other dnv “ Thev are dirtv ” was "I knowing the ability and other sterling qualities of Father junior to another, the other uay. iney are dirty, was J Colovin, XotreDame wiH tiud in bim an able and an eloquent the answer.	gs reprCoeutat,iVc, of whom any University might feel proud.”
—Weare happy to learn that a dentist’s chair will be3i put in one of the rooms, for the accommodation of both g dentist and students.	||
—I have spared no pains nor expense to make my store la one of the most attractive places in the city. Call and see me.	E. C. Carpenter. [<>24 Im
—“Why do you give so much milk to your pigs?” asked Is a young hopeful of a staid farmer. “ That they may make || hogs of themselves,” was the reply.	'
—There will be an exciting debate at the Manual Labor M School this evening. The question is “Resolved, ThatB Baseball should be forbidden to all Students in Colleges.” Eg
—Please give us the proper credit. We see some articles gj copied in the Catholic papers with the simple acknowledg- It ment “Exchange," when it should have been “Scholastic.” ||
—A new Chapel has been fitted up at the Professed Bl House. It is said to be one of the neatest about Notre Dame. Father Frfire has exhibited great taste in its decora- h tions. .
—We have run out of Nos. 2 and 6 of this volumne of The Scholastic. We would like to have eight or ten copies 3 of each for binding. Cannot some of our friends let us have them?	■
—One of the little Jnniors said that he was recently H travelling through Ohio, and that everybody he met called ■
potatoes “ taters,” except one young lady who called him a small “ pertater.”
—All Essays, etc., for The Scholastic should be in by
£ Monday afternoon. All persons sending communications should remember to write on one side only of the page and give their name, otherwise the article will be rejected.
—Rev. Father General is having prepared a magnificent large lithograph of the College and Church. It will be San excellent picture for framing. In six weeks, we under-
stand, it will be ready. Oa the same sheet there will also be some five or six photographs of former officers of the College.
How much is yer stick candy ?” inquired a boy of a candy dealer, on Tuesday. “ Six sticks for five. cents. ” 1“ Six sticks fer five cents, eh ? Now lem’me see, six sticks fer five cents, five fer four cents, four fer three cents, three fer two cents, two fer one cent, one fer nothin*. I’ll take one," and he walked out, leaving the candy man in a state of bewilderment which lasted three days.
—The worthy and talented young gentlemen who edit the Philonathean Standard had quite a grand lunch in the Junior Refectory on Tmsday last. Oysters, tfiikey, etc., were dished up in the best style and were plentiful. We did our share, as an invited guest, to help put away the many good things which were served. The Standard corps are a fine set of young fellows, and we wish them every succ. ss iu their labors this yean .
—Prof. A. J. Stace, is the recipient of a handsome pair of moccasins, made by the squaw of a celebrated Indian chief in Texas. They were forwarded, with a photograph of the two daughters of the squaw, by Mr. Bonifacio Baca, who was a student here last year. Mr. Stace is quite proud of his moccasins, and regrels that they are not large enough for his feet. He will be forced to procure some Junior to wear them out for him. He is greatly pleased with the beautiful bead-work and painting which adorn his present, and is firm in his belief that none of the young ladies at St. Mary’s ever made the like ornaments on slippers.
—Rev. Father Golovin is to lecture at St. James’ Church, Chicago, on Sunday evening, Dec. 6th. The Committee, writing to us, say:	•
■ “The Sc. Vincent de Paul Society of this parish consider them selves fortunate in having the Rev. P. J. Colovin, the worthy* Vice-President of Notre Dame University, accept a pressing invitation to deliver a lecture on the evening of December the 6th, at St. James’ Church, for the benefit of the poor.
—Speaking of the illness and death of Fr. Lemonnier the [Register, of South Bend, says:
At times his condition was so low that reports gained credence that he had passed away, and on one occasion, a few weeks i since, a report of his death, considered reliable, was thus an-nouuced in the First M. E. Church Sunday School by the Assistant Superintendent:	-	’
•• It is said that the world mourns when a good man dies. Last niuht Rev. Father Lemonnier, President of Notre Dame • University, died. He was a good and kind.man, possessing a sweet spirit and was much beloved by all who knew him, especially by the students, for whom he felt a deep interest. His jast words were, “ Be good to the students.”
—A young man, not a thousand miles away from Notre Dame, has a cordial hatred of cats. He can stand a Scotch bagpipe or a young man taking his first lessons on the violin, or almost anything else that is frightful; but cats— they are to him past endurance. The other day he beheld a noor puss quietly sunning herself in the yard. He determined upon its death, and straightway shouldered his , double-barrelled gun and started out intent on a cat murder. Then he took the dreadful weapon from his shoulder and with great care put the charge of powder in; then he poured in the shot and rammed it down. With cautious steps he approached the slumbering cat, took a careful aim and blazed away. To the surprise of our young man. the cat, somewhat blackened, was seen, as the smoke cleared away, climbing over a neighboring fence. Now, he had '
‘&2
THE SCHOLASTIC.
heard of a cat having nine lives, and all this-and-tbat, but that a cat could be so nimble with a handful of buckshot in its body7 rather stumped him. However, au examination of his gun disclosed the fact that he had put the powder in one barrel and the shot in the other!
—Among the letters received on the death of Rev, Father Lemonnier, was one sent by Will M. Carleton, who writes as follows:	■
Hillsdale, Nov. 2,1874. I
Mr Dear Friend t—Your letter brought to me again the 8 throb of sorrow with which I had read the Press dispatch of | Father Lemonnier’s death. Few men ever inspired in me so s much interest upon a short acquaintance us did he upon my j recent brief visit to your Institution. His plain but elegant £
hospitality; his brilliant conversation; his attachment and self-sacrifice to his work; but above all, his sweet courtesy and kindness of heart, combined to draw heavily upon my sympathy and regard. I had promised myself the pleasure of some, time renewing the precious acquaintancea promise whose fulfilment is now, alas I hidden by the black veil of death.
Accept for yourself and all my pleasant acquaintances at Notre Dame my condolement for the great loss.
Fraternally,
Will M. Carleton.
P. S.—Will you kindly send me some of the published sketches of his career and death ?	C.
Scientific Notes.
obtain a good view of the moon for any length of time with* out interruption, nevertheless our observers were not to be disheartened; therefore they did not retire until they beheld Luna arrayed in all her beauty, save that her left limb was as dark as the clouds that “ o’er her passed.”
—Chateaubriand says: “ Genuine philosophy is the inno* cence of the old age of nations, when they have ceased to possess virtues by instinct, and owe such as they have to reason. This second innocence is less certain than the first, but, when it can be attained, it is more sublime.”
—Motion is either essential to matter or communicated to it. If it were essential, the component parts of matter would always be in motion. But there are many bodies iu a state of repose: therefore, motion is not essential to matter, but communicated to it by some being out of the material order.
■ —The Fan Palm, an East India species, has leaves in the form of an umbrella, eighteen feet across.
la —According to M. Argo, the effects of the internal heat 9 of the earth have not affected its mean temperature one* ■ tenth of a degree for 2000 years.
Musical Hotes.
—We are pleased to see that Rev. Father Fr^re has reorganized the Arion Quartette Club. . We expect to hear some good music from the Club.
—On Wednesday morning the Orchestra rehearsed the overture “Fidelio,” by Beethoven. It was passably well rendered.
,	4.	t. .	, ,	, , . ■ —The University Cornet Band rehearses regularly twice
—An electro-magnetic copying machine has been devised 9 a week Several new and choice pieces have been placed
by Hencker, of Munich, which transmits by telegraph, and 9 nn jls repertory, sr> there is ample room for practice. So that, too, without the assistance of an operator; writing 9 far their progress has been excellent.
maps, plans, portraits, etc: An impression of the object to a be copied is taken with a prepared ink, on a sort of silver paper, which is then rolled on a revolving cylinder and the message, whether in writing or in the form of a drawing, is at once forwarded to its destination, a perfect facsimile of the writing or drawing being produced at the other end of the wire.—Popular Science Monthly.
—After the Orchestra rehearsal, the Quartette Club spent an hour enjoyably iu rehearsing a new quintette, by Schubert. It was a treat to the'performers, who are better able to judge of the merits of such compositions than are the public generally.
—Three new sopranos have been taken into the Choir on
-Mr. Richaifl Proctor, the celebrated English astron-8 !riaL J’1'6 should be the most* prominent part, omer, says of the United States Signal Office7orecasts ofS !ustfad (* 'Y11,c1 11 Js now the weakest. Don t be afraid the weather, that they are “singularly accurate, the per- St0 sin= out 111 chuich, JounK men.
centage of error being little more than ten or twelve, and 9 —Lt last Wednesday’s rehearsal of the Choir only one of constantly diminishing.	B the lassi was present, and no tenori As some of them
—The number of measurable asteroids discovered up to 1 ind^ging their voices afterwards in an impromptu the present time is about 137.	g ^uette they were strongly reprimanded by the proper per*	_	.	, „	.	, , ,, g son, which reprimand it is to be hoped will be attended to.
—The apparatus for steering balloons, invented by Mr ■	___________ ___________
Bowdler, and recently tested at Woolwich, England, g	’ * ’
though a failure in its main purpose, yet serves to demon- g	Sooistv Not6S.
strate the fact that by the use of properly7 constructed pans, 3	_ 
air, like water, may be made to act as a resisting medium, a _piie Thespians have their play ready.
The apparatus is described ss consisting of fans, like the 9	. ,,
screw-propeller of a ship, three feet in diameter, and mak- i -The Cecihans will begin their rehearsals shortly, ing, when w_orked by hand, from twelve to fourteen revohi- S —The picture of the Thespians of last year will soon be tions per second. By this contrivance it was shown that g ready.
when a balloon was perfectly balanced its vertical direc-g —The	regular meeting of the St. Aloysius Philo-
tion would be changed, that is, it would be made to rise or 9 demic Society was held on Tuesday, Nov. 10th. The ex* fall, but the horizontal pans were found to have no effect |p ercjses consisted of a criticism on the previous meeting by whatever tn guiding the direction.—Appleton s Journal, g q Kelly. a declamation by Jos. McManus; an Essay “ On —An ingenious apparatus has been invented by M. E Copy,” by T. M. O’Leary, and a debate. The question Grimonsin, of Paris, for the in halation of oxj’gen gas by7 per- S debated was: “Resolved, That Cremation should be adopted sons suffering from asphyxia, asthma, consumption, dys- g instead of the common manner of Burial.” The debaters pepsia, cholera, etc. The inhalation of oxygen has a most S were, on the affirmative, Messrs. M. Foley and P. Skahil; beneficial influence on persons enfeebled by age or ex-9 on the negative, Messrs. Jno. Ney and S. Monahan, hausted by disease, as well as on those suffering from the 9 The question was well debated by all, but decided in favor effects of severe mental labor.	. Bl of the negative. .
The examination of Coggia s comet, by Padre Secchi, 9 —The	and nth regular meetings of the St. Cecilia
by means of the spectroscope, proves that its rays consist 9 Philomathean Association were held, respectively7, Nov. mainly of light emitted by carbon or an oxide of carbon. 93rd and 10thj 1874 At these meetings the debate: ReG. Abbe Moigno asks: May not a comet be a giganticSoivedi “ That Moral Suasion is more powerful in settling diamond volatilized r	eg international Difficulties than Physical ” took place. The
—Our young astronomers were busily engaged on the ® affirmative side was supported by the following: J. F. night of Oct. 24th taking observations on the eclipse of^Beegan, D. J. O’Connell, J. P. McHugh, E. J. Wood and the. moon. Although ,the sky was nearly7 covered with g P. J. Solon; while the negative was defended by Messrs, 'dense clouds, thereby"rehdering it almost impossible to m W; S. Meyer, J. F. Soule, A. K. Schmidt, E. Arnold and
THE SCHOLASTIC.
93?

W. N. Lawless. The best speeches were made by Mast. § p-	™	p- McDonald, G.
J. F. Beegan on the.affirmative, and W. S. Meyer on the H	r r*
negative side. The President summed up the debate and g Summere M. Burge, M. Caldwell, F. Miller, M. McCormack, J. gave his decision, m lavor of the affirmative. Masters A. gS h Lyons M J Murphy E Maas
H. Mitchell and Con. A. Quinn applied for admission to | JcxioR’ C^*_T, D o’Mahoney, V. Baca, J. F. Larkin, A. the Association, and after fulfilling the necessary condi-g3	,r .	_	, ’ „ _ , _	’ __
tions were elected. -	■ 0 Bnen’ K MontSomery. p- Shaul, F. P. Brady, F. Ferry, W.
mi o j	t. ,	.. c	E Schultheis, F. Wilhelm, J. Thornton, H. McGuire, L. Evers, J.
—The 3rd 4th and oth Regular meetings of the Philo-® .. „	’ T „	’ „ „	’	,	_ ’	_	’
patrian Society were held respectively Oct-AGth, 24th, and £ Gre°ne’J’JD°,r,e’ Nov. 5th. At these meetings the following delivered de- Korty,C. Hake, T. C’.cott, T. O Leary, T. Crelly, W. Roelie, clamations: J. Delvecchio, H. Quan, C. Welty and J-EP- H-Farrell, G. W. Hoyt, P. E. Lawrence, C. Otto, A. Lons-Kielty. Masters J. Crummey, J. W. Rolle, F. Ewing, E. || torf, R. Maas, C. Favey, S. Kennedy, J. E. Marks, P. Egan, J. Grumbling and L. Pelliod were admitted to membership S McManus, J. B. Waters, J. Berringer, L. Chamberlain; R, after giving specimens %f declamations.	■ White, J. Brennan, e’ Gault, F. G. Bearss, F. Dill, C. Lane, D.
—The following Resolutions were adopted by the Arch- H Thompson, T. Flannagan, F. Morass, R. Barrett, P. Mattimore. confraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary at their meeting M W. J. Fullerton, E. Ayers, Peter Mattimore. •
held Nov. 8tb, 1874.	-	S| Minim Department—Ralph Golsen, Michael McAuliffe, Colly
Whereas, It hath pleased Almighty God to remove from our g Clarke Francis Garlin Lee J. Frazee, Clement Moody, Eddie -midst the beloved President of Notre Dame and our reveredgS_	, _	. „
friend. Rev. Augustus Lemonnier, C. S. C„ be it therefore ® Raymond, Francis Campau, Willie Cash, Wilhe Linsey, Sylves-
Resolved, First, That the Archconfraternity of the Blessed 9 ter Bushey, Willie Van Pelt, Eddie Joyce Dubois, John Duf-Virgin Mary has lost a devoted triend one who, for such a rag field, long time, by the faithful performance of his priestly functions a ■ * and religious duties, has shown himself worthy of our imitation. ™
Resolved, Secondly, That while we .humbly bow to the de-
crees of an Allwise Providence who doth all things well, we | cannot but feel that in his death we have lost a pious father f and zealous patron.	■ •	|
Resolved, Tnirdly, That we condole with his venerable 8 uncle, Very Rev. E. Sorin, and his sorrowing relatives and s friends.	'	I
Resolved, Fourthly, That a copy of these resolutions be pre-| sented to.his afflicted uncle, and that they be printed in the|
Out-Door Sports.
Scholastic.
Hequiescat in pace.
T. J. Murphy, ]
FCCrTves?’ r Comm5ttee-
AL. li- UKAIE», . j
J. A. Browne, J
Doll of Honor.
.—The members of the Boat-Club spend their recreations in fishing.
—On the Sth inst. the “Excelsiors” beat the “Mulligan Guards” at base-ball. Score, 40 to 11.
—The champion games of hand-ball for the Junior Department will be played on the Juniors’ alley on the 15th. The following persons, so far as we could learn, are partners, and will play. Hayes and Monahan, Soule and Murphy, Best and Gross, McNamara and Walker, and Golsen and Solon.
.—All reports, of out-door sports should be in by Wednesday evening.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
V. Baca, F. Brady, J. Berringer, J. Brown, J. Burge, F. Bearss, L. Chamberlain, J. Caren, T. Cicott, J. Crummey. G. Crummey, H. Cassidy, J. Cullen, J. Claffey, W. Dechant, F. Devoto, W. Doherty, B. Euans, M. Foley, J. Ferry, C. Favey, F. Farrell, T. Flannagan, W. Fullerton, J. Green, J. Girard, P. Guilloz, E. Graves, f. Grier, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, G. Hoyt, F. Hubard, C. Hess, 11. Hunt, J. Handley, T. Hansard, A. Horne, J. Hogan, H. Hoffman, J. Kennedy, 8. Kennedy, J. Koph, M. Keeler, J. Kelly, G. Kelly, J. Larkin, P. Lawrence, G. McNulty, J. Marks, E. McPharlin, R. Maas, E. Maas, F. Montgomery, W. Mc-Gavin, T. Murphy, N. Mooney, J. Mathews,"E. Monohan, E. McLaughlin, J. McManus, P. Mattimore, P. J. Mattimore, J.Ney, .
’ A. O’Brien, T- O’Leary, T. O’Mahony, C. Oito, C. Proctor, J. g Errata.—In number seven of The Scholastic, Miss-Quinn, G. Roulhac, W. Ryan, J. Rudge, G. Rudge, P. Skahi), a Smith was printed in the place of Miss R. Spiers, Post-F. Schlink, S. Studebaker, P. Shaul, F. Scraffo’rd, G. Summers, gg Graduate.	'
J. Thornton, F. Wilhelm, C. Walters, R. White, L. Zeitler.'	|g|	‘	’ .. ,	„	— j j -c ’
’	’	’	’	H —The Festival of St. Charles Borromeo afforded a fine opjunior department.	H portunity for the young ladies of the 2nd Senior Class to
A. Betcher, J. Beegan, W. Byrne, J. W. Connolly, A. Crunkil g enjoy a long walk with their esteemed teacher, whose fes-ton, A. Byrne, F. Buckman, G. Budd, A. Burger, J. Dore, J. 3 tival they commemorated.
Delvecchio, R. Downey, L. Evers, F. E. Foxen, J. T. Foley, F. ® —The	Bishop Gilmour distributed the points
Se?DUjSSsoi?F'im^	tickets of conduct to the young ladies, on-
P. Kurtz. II. Kerry, J. Keilty, F. Kleiner, C. V. Larkin, A. Lei- ® Sunday evening, Sth inst. At the conclusion, he honored telt, 0. E. Leonhardt, J. Lambin, J. McHugh, H. McGuire, W. 9 them by giving a brief but valuable instruction.
S.	Meyer, M. J. Murphy, G. Nester, J. Nelson, C. Peltier, D. J. g —On Tuesday, 10th inst., the young ladies of the Gradu-O’Connell, C. R Post, H. W..Quan, E F Riopelle, L. P.Smith, g ti Class rcad the 3nd No of Vol. Second of the “ Au-E. Gramling, J. A. Smith, W. a. Scout, J. F. boule, T J. bolon, H	R R Bishon Gilmour Verv Rev Father
T.	Summers, P. Sehnurrer, N. Van imee, H. Weber, C. J- Whip- g a- .	„ P > ??r ’	a n *n?“
pie, J. E. Wood, G. Woodward, F. J. Weisenburger, E. Wash-S General, C. S. C.,and Rev. Father Vignier, C. S. C., Chap-burne, W. Smith, H. Colton, J. Crummey, J. Johnson.	g lain of St. Mary s, were present. The Bishop made some.
minim dep \rtmnt.	S witty and pertinent remarks at the close.
„ „	,	,r. / ", * „ *T 1 -T ip	® —The new sanctuary lamp in the Chapel of Loreto is
Colly Clarke, Michael McGauliffe, Lee J. Frazee, Joseph® -	* . ..____P	______o _____
Carrer, Tommy Hooley, Eddie Raymond, Hugh Colton, Harry IS ^ie admiration of all observers. It is of rare and exquisite Ordway, Louis Goldsmith, Charlie Bushey, Colly Campau, S workmanship, formed entnely of colorless glass; except Francis Carlin, John O’Meara, Francis McGrath.	0 the reflector, just under the light, which is of enmson.-
The supports are of silver, and the whoie is supended from a chain of silver passing through the corol as of two lilies,
SAINT LADY’S ACADEMY.
Additional Arrivals.
Miss M. Derby,..
“ B. Spencer,.
“ C. Spencer,.
“ F. Taylor,..
MJ Bryson,.
/• R. Golsen,..
. .Fort Penbina, Dakota*Ter..
..Port Huron, Michigan.
. .Port Huron, Michigan.
. .Cleveland, Ohio.
. .Chicago, IIlinios.
.;Chicago, Illinois.
Class Honors.
in glass, base to base, one upright, the other inverted. Altogether, it constitutes in its crystal beauty a most appro-FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12. priate lamp for a chapel built to honor the earthly home of commercial course.	K the “purest of creatures.” It is the gracious donation of
Senior Class—G. Roulhac, J. Girard, T. Solon, S. Studebaker, § Mrs. M. M. Phelan, of Lancaster, Ohio.	.	_
94
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Tablet of Honor.
2nd Sr. Class—Misses A. O’Connor, M. Daley, A. Walsh, L. Ritchie, L. Wyman, J. McGuire. E. York, A. Dilger, F. Dilger, F. DeLong, J. Bennett, M. Faxon, E. Dougherty, J. Nunning, L. Tinsley, B. Wade.
3rd Sr. Class—Misses L. Kelley, M. Julius, M. Dunbar, S. Harris, C. Woodward, L Johnson, M. Walsh, K. Hutchinson, M. Quill, R. Neteler, M. Brady, T. Gaynor, R. Canoll, L. Henroten, E. Quinlan, J. Kceigh, R. Klarr, A. Byrnes.
1st Prep. Class—Misses E. O'Connor, M. Thompson, E. Thompson, C. Morgan, M. Poquette, A. Duncan, M. Shiel, E. Mann, S. Hole, H. Russell, E. Bowman, J. Stough, S. Moran.
2nd Prep. Class—Misses J. Riopelle, H. Parks, S. Edes, J. Edes, E. Edes, S. Cunningham, B. Hildebrand, L. Mead, E. Cody, M. McKay, E. McFarlane, B. Turnbull, L. Moran, A. Smith, S. Reining, F. Easton.	I
3rd Prep. Class—Misses C. Maigrey, G. Hills, L. | Brownbridge, F. Reppetan, A. Lehman, M. Railton, M. I Quinn.	I
Walsh, H. Peak, N. McAuliffe, F. DeLong, J. Stough, L. Stimson, E. Dougherty.
-nxTnTwn o	ra	Div.—P. Gaynor, M. O’Connor, R. Neteler, A.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING NOV. 8, 1874. g Sweeney, E Simpson, G. Hill, I. Fisk, M. Brady, B. Siler, Graduating Class—Misses M. Walker, A. Curtin, M.® Siler, L. Brownbridge, M. Quill, M. Summers, F. MidWicker, L. Ritchie, E. Haggerty, J. Locke, J. Kearney, R. ® dietou, C. Thayer, S. Edes, L. Moran, S. Hole, Alice Green, A. Smith.	|g Smith.
1st Sr. Class—Misses G. Walton, A. Clarke, J. Fan-Eg 7th Class—I. Edes, C. Maigrey, E. Edes, F. Reppetan, ning, H. Foote, M. Riley, _E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, L. Ar-®L Grant, H. Parks, M. Daily, L. Kelly, S. Moran, E. nold, L Bradford, J. Stimson, E. Sweeney, A. St. Clair, ® Sweeney, S. Cash.
M. Johnson.	g Sth Class—A. McGrath, J. Brown, K. Hudson.
. 9th Class—M. Ewing, J. Corrigan, M. Bell, A. Ewing.
I 10th Class—A- Peak, R. Goldsberry, M. Hoffman.
I Harp—J. Walker, M. Wicker, E. ©’Connor, M. Walker.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING NOV. 6.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses M. Cravens, I. Fisk, M. Ewing, M. Reynolds, M. Pritchard. M. Schultheis, M. Siler, M. Jackson, D. Allen, K. Peak, J. Brown, L. Cash, C. Orr, N. McGrath, L. Hutch- ■ inson, A. Goeway, N. Mann, L. Kirchner, C. Yates, M. -Hogan,'L. Walsh, E. Lappin, J. McDougall, M. Hoffman, L. Vincent, J. Corrigan, M. Derby, K. Hudson, A. and M. Ewing, A. and L. Schnurrer.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses J. Mann, E. McDougall, A. McGrath, E. Simpson, M. and C. Hughes, L. Schnurrer.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
3rd Sr Class—Misses M. Cravens, M. O’Connor, M. Carlin, I. Fisk, A. Harris.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN. ENGLISH LESSONS. Eg —	1^r^C^ar^’
„	_	...	,r ..	. ~ .. O Ewing, E. Lange, M. and B. Siler, M. Schultheis.
Graduating Class Misses M. Walker, A. Cuitin, M. g 2nd Prep. Class—M. Jackson, D. Allen, H. Peak, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, E. Haggerty, J. Locke, J. Kearney, R. g Summers S Cash
, T • tt ® JR- Prep. Class—C. Orr, N. McGrath, J. McDougall, ^alton> Clarke, J. Fanning. H. is Ewing, N Mann, L. Hutchinson, A. Koch, M. Hogan, Foote, MR. ley, E Dennehey, K. Joyce, L. Bradford, J. Hoffman, C. Yates, A. Goewey, L. Kirchker, E. Lap-Stimson, E Sweeney, M. Johnson.	IB pin
T ,S-R’r^^v-88*-^ P xr°nn"r’	E lsT Jr- Class—M. Derby, E. McDougall, J. Corrigan,
L Ritchie, L. Wyman, J. McGuire E. York, A Dilger, F. g K Hudson, A. McGrath, E? Simpson, I. Mann. D1^er’oF- -DeLong, M. Faxon, E Doughertv, J. Nunning. § 2nd Jr ’CliASS_j. Keedy, R. Goldsberry.
3rd Sr. Class—L. Kelley, M. Julius, M. Dunbar, S. @	J	J
Harris, C. Woodward, L. Johnson, M. Walsh, K. Hutchin- g son, M. Quill,. R. Neteler, M. Brady, P. Gavnor, R. Canoll, -L. Henroten, E. Quinlan, J. Kreigh, R. Klarr, A. Byrnes.
1st Prep. Class—E. O'Connor, M. Thompson, E. Thompson, M Poquette, C. Thayer, A. Duncan, M. Shiel, R. Greenleaf, E. Mann, S. Hole, H. Russell, N. Myhan, E. Bowman, J. Stough, S. Moran.
2nd Prep. Class—J. Riopelle,’H. Parks, S. Edes, E. Edes, I. Edes, S. Cunningham, B. Hildebrand, L. Meade, E. Cody, M. McKay, N. McFarlane, B. Turnbull, L. Moran, A. Smith, S. Reising, F. Easton.
3rd Prep. Class—F. Reppetan.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses R. Spier, E. Quinlan.
2nd Class—N. Foote, A. Smith, R Green, J. Kreigh.
2nd Div.—J. Nunning, M. Quan, M. Julius, E. Greenleaf.
3rd Class—E O’Connor, S. Harris, K. Hutchinson, J. Kearney.
2nd Div.—E. Dennehey, A. Harris, J. Stimpson, A. St. Clair, L Arnold, L. Henroten, L. Wyman, M. Craven, L. Tinsley, M. Hutchinson, A. Koch.	I
4th Class—A. T. Clarke, J. Locke, J. Bennett, A. Dilger, E. Cody, C. Morgan, L. Bradford.
2nd Div.—H. Kraus, B Wilson, L. Kirchner, A. Pool, H. Russell, E. Haggerty, N McGrath, E. Richardson, M. Faxon, K. Joyce, B. Turnbull, A. Byrnes.
5th Class—M. A. Roberts, M. Pritchard, L. McKinnon, E. Bowman, L. Johnson, L. Hutchinson, L. Ritchie, A. Dunean, A Allen, M. Rilev, F. Dilger, M. Jackson, A. I Cullen, A. Lehman, M. McKay.
2nd Div.—E Thompson, M. Thompson, A. Curtin, M. Schultheis, E. Lange, C. Orr, A. O'Connor, R. Canoil, M. Johnson.	L
6th Class—C. Woodward, E. McDougall, J. McDou-| gall, B. Hildebrand, A. Goewey, M. Walsh, A. Walsh, L. 1
31
—A politician, wishing to compliment a well-to-do farmer, said, “You must have begun life early to accumulate such an estate as this!” “Yes,” replied the farmer ‘‘ I began life when I was a mere baby.”
The inhabitants of Toulouse (France) must be a hard set. A tourist, speaking of the city, says: “ It is a large tow’n, containing ninety thousand inhabitants, built entirely of brick.”


FOR SALE.
The Magnificent ORGAN now Used in the Church at Notre Dame,
So much admired for its sweetness and power, containing 36 Stops and 1,700 Pipes. PRICE $3,500— to be paid: $1000 cash, and the rest in 6, 12 and 18 months, with interest.
Such a splendid Organ could not be built anywhere now for $5,000. The reason why it is offered for sale is solely because the place for the organ in the New Church does not admit of its depth, which is 12x18 feet
in width.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, Notre Dame, Indiana
Address, nov 7-tf.
THE SCHOLASTIC
9&
?
THE
“AVE MARIA,”
A CATHOLIC JOURNAL
Particularly Devoted to the Holy Mother of God.
Published Weekly at
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
POPULAR CLOTHING HOUSE!
----o------
91 YTicliig^m St., Soutlx Bend, Ind
ENCOURAGED AND APPROVED BY
HIS HOLINESS POPE PIUS IX
And Many Distinguished Prelates.
THIS Paper, the first established in the New World for the inter ests oi the Blessed Virgin, is addressed not to nominal Christians, but solely to su< h as love the Mother ol Jesus and wish to see her honored throughout the land; commending itself not only to lie various pious Associations in honor of Our Blessed Lady—such ts the Living Rosary, Scapulars, Children of Mary, Sodalities, etc.— auttothe whole community.
b Subscribers for one year"and upwards will share in the benefit of Mass once a month. .
a Life Subscriptions may be paid at once, or in four installments within the space of one year.	.	■
■	Terms:
One Year,	-
Two Years, -Five Year.-,	-
Life Subscription,
$ 3 00
5 00
10 00
20 00
All Subscriptions, Communications, Books or Periodicals, for notice, etc , should be addressed to
Editor of “AVE NARTA,”
.	Notre Dame, Indiana.
We invite the attention of the public to our large stock of
FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING
ITIJ IRjNISIII j\T Gr GOODS.
OUR stock is always large and carefully selected, and everything you want in our Line will always be found on our shelves.
Our Full DRESS SUITS show an amount of pains-taking scaacely • ever seen in Ready-Made or Custom Work. The Prices are MUCH LESS than the same material would cost if made to measure.
Money is scarce but Clotliing Is Clieap. If you don’t believe it, drop in and see our Goods and Prices.
Our Merchant Tailoring Department
is. in full blast. We have a full Stock of Clotlis. Cassi* meres and Vestings, ’and we’ turn out the best Fits. We sell for Cash, and our Prices are about One-Third Lower than any other house in the business.	o24-tf. _
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY,
J^OTRE pAME, JNDIANA.
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY, under the direction of the Sisters of the Holy* ross, is situated on the St. Joseph River, eighty-six miles east of Chicago, via Michigan Southern Kailroad, and two miles from the nourishing city of South Bend.
The site of St. Mary's is one" to claim the admiration of every beholder. 1c would appear that nature had anticipated the use to which the grounds were to be applied, and had disposed her advantages to meet the requirements of such an establishment. Magnificent forest trees, rising from the banks of one of the most beautiful rivers in the Mississippi Valley, still stand in native grandeur: the music of bright waters and healthful breezes inspire activi y and energy, whilethe the quiet seclusion invites to reflection and study.
For Catalogue, address
.	MOTHER M. ANGELA,
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Indiana
DEALERS IN
Pianos, Organs, Guitars, Stools, Covers, Strings
SHEET MUSIC AND MUSIC BOOKS.
AND ALL KINDS OF
MUSICAL MERCHANDISE.
: Instruments tuned and repaired in the best manner and-
at the lowest prices.
/ t
NATIONAL HOTEL,
SSovitli Bend. Indiana.
At the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railway Depot, opposite ’	Studebakers’ Wagon Works.
THOSE who patronize the National Hotel will find during their stay at South Bend all the comforts of home. Conveyances to /and from the College and St. Marv’s can be procured at the Hotel. '	AUGUSTUS F. BAKER, Proprietor.
nov 7 8m	’
No. 72 Washington street, - South Bend, Indiana.
■	J4o24-tf
JAMES BONNEY.
PHOTOGRAPHER.
CANDY! CANDY!
The Low Pbices Still Continue at
P. L. GARRITY’S
Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts.)
Over G'oonl&y's Drug Store,
South Bend, Indiana.'
FACTORY
100 Van Buren Street, Chicago.
Broken Candy -	-	-	- .	15e.
Fine Mixed Candy -	-	-	- 25c.
Choice Mixed Candy -	-	_	35e.
Caramels - ’	- -	-	-	-	- 35c.
Molasses and Cream Candy -	-	25c.
Proportionately Bow Prices to Wholesale Casli Buyers.
Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
o24-tf
Mr. Bonney will be at his old stand at the College every Wednesday morning at 8 o’clock. He has on
. hand photographsof the Professors of the.	.
University, members of the Col-
lege Societies, etc., etc-,
Which he is prepared to furnish to all desiring!
■	' oM-tf
THE SCHOLASTIC.
96
K
BOOTS & SHOES.
TO THE STUDENTS!
Michigan Central Railroad
Timo TaL>le. .
Before Buying Your Boots and Shoes,
—WE INVITE—
YOUR ESPECIAL ATTENTION
—TO—
OUR LARGE and COMPLETE STOCK,
SELECTED WITH GREAT CARE
—AND—
Superior to any ever offered in this City.
WE EEEL WARRANTED IN SAYING
—THAT—
FROM OUR FACILITIES
—AND—	’
TWEMY TEARS EXPERIENCE
—IN THE—
Boot and Shoe Business in South Bend,
We can offer greater inducements to buyers than other dealers
We keep Honest Work, Glean Stock, Latest Styles, which we will sell at Low Prices.
We pledge ourselves to please all who may favor us with -a call.	Respectfully,
D. H. BAKER, & Bro.,
1OO Michigan Street,
o24-2m	South Bend, Indiana.
l. s. & aM. serail way.
On and after Sunday, May 24, 1874, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2.35 a. m. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10 30; Cleveland, 2.35 r. m.; Buffalo, 8.55 p. m.
10.38 a. m. (No. 2), Mail, overMain Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5 35 p. m. ; Cleveland, 10.20
12.27 a. it. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.50; Cleveland, 10.10 p. st.; Buffalo 4 05 a. st. '	•
9.11 p. x. (No. 6), Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40; Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo. 1.10 p. st.
7.54 p. st. (No. 10) Toledo Express, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo,'2.30 a. st,, Cleveland 7.05 a m., Buffalo 1-10 p. sr.
3.55 r. st. [No.70]. Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
3.20 a. st. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicago 6 30 a. sr. -
4.50 a. st (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.40; Chicago, 8 00 a. si.
5.55 p. sr. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives al Laporte, 6 55; Chicago, 9.10 r. sr. •
4.51 p. sc. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte 5.45; Chicago, 8 00.
8.00 a. st. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Lapoote 8.55 a sr , Chicago 11.10.
720 a. sr. [No. 71J Local Freight.
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers upon Through Freight Trains. -
J W. CARY, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H Parsons, Sup’t Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.
S. J. POWELL. Ticket Agent, South Bend.
’	CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t.-
1.OVISVXX.Z.E nr. albant & Chicago h.r.
On and after bunday, Nov. 12, 1873, trains pass New Albanjand Salem Crossing, as lollows: GOING NOE TN.
Pass .. . Freight.. Freight. Pass....
7 29 p .2.48 a. .8 57 P.
sr. sr.
9.24 a. m.
Pass ... Freight Freight. Pass....
GOING SO UTE.
..8 23 p.rc. 10 47 A M. .4.45 A.M. .11.23 a.si.
H. N. CANLFF, Agent
From and after May 24th, trains on the Michigan Central Railroad leave Niles as follows:
TRAINS EASTWARD.
Night Express,	-	-- --	--	--	12.45	a
Mail. -........................................ 9.10 a
Day Express, -	-	- - - -	-	-	.	-	•	12.12 a
Accommodation,	7.35 p
Atlantic Express	---- -	-	-	-	-	8.55	p.i
Way Freight, -	-	-	--	--	--	8.00 a
TRAINS "WESTWARD.
Eveninsr Express,	-	-	-	.	-	-	-	-	2.35 a
Pacific Express, -	--	--	--	--	4.40 a
Accommodation,	-	--	--	--	--	6.25 a
Mail -............................................3.57 p
Day Express	-	--	--	--	--	- 4.35 p
Way Freight -	- ’ -	-	-	-	-	-' -	-	1.45 p.
AIR LINE DIVISION.
EASTWARD.
Mail—Arrives in Niles --------	9.15 p.
Three Rivers Accommodation ------- 7.40 p.
Atlantic Express -	--	--	--	--	9.00 p.
Way Freight -	--	-- --	--	-	10.30	a.
WESTWARD.-
Three Rivers Accommodation—Leave Niles'	-	-	‘	-	6.05 a.
Mail -	--	--	-- -----	-	3.45	p.
Pacific Express -	-	-	--- - -	-	-	-	5.05 a.
Way Freight- - -	-	-	- - -	-	- - -	- 5.05 p.
SOUTH BEND DIVISION.
Trains lea.te South Bend—8 15 a m, 1110 a m, 3.00 p m, 6.30 p m.
Arrive at Niles—8.42 am, 11.40 am, 3.30 p m. 7.60 p m
Leave Niles—6.30 am, 9.20 a m, 12.45 pm, 4.35 pm.
Arrive at South Bene—7.05 am, 9.55 a m, 1.20 pm, 5.10 pm.
Sunday Trains Leave South Bend 9.00 am, 7.00 pm.
“	“	Arrive at Niles—9.30 a m, 7.30 p m.
NOTRE DAME STATION.
Arrive—7.00 am, 9.50 am, 1.15 pm, 5.05pm.
Leave—8.20 a m. 11.15 a m, 3.05 p m, 6.35 p m.
Sunday Trains.
Arrive—8.3) a m, 5.30 p m.	Leave—9.C5 a m, 7.05 p m.
H. E. SARGENT, Gen‘1 Superintendent, Chicago, Illinois.
S. R. KING, Passenger and Freight Agent, South Bend.
B. CELESTINE, Agen tNotie Dame
B B B |3 B B 0 B BB0B0B B “ B & B 0
Chicago Alton and Sr. Louis Line.
tJWRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near fly Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
LEAVE. ARRIVE.
♦9:30 a.m. *8:00 p.m.
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night . Express, via Main Line,
St.Louisand Spri noieldLightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division
•9:45 a.m. *4:30 p.m
♦9:30 a.m. *4:30 p.m,
♦4:10 p.m. *9:40 a.m.
>
16:30 p.m. »4:30 .m. /
/
$9:00 p.m. |7:15 a.m. /
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-	•
vill, Ill., and Louisiana. Mo.	$9:45 p.m. §7:15 a.m
♦ Except Sunday, t On Sunday runs to Springfield only 1 Ex cept Saturday. | Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St.Lonis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.	,
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains. ■ JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,	;
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO.	CHICAGO
PEOS1LVANU CENTRAL	]
DOUBLE TBA0K EAILB0AD.	j
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.	j
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New
York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9 00 p. m | Arrives at New York 11.30 a.m.*
2d train “	“	5.15 p. m. “	• “	6.41 a m.*
3rd train “ u 9.00. p. m. |	“	“	11.30 p.m.*	.
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and
Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M.C. CRElGHTuN, Assistant Superintendent Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jr., Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Phielphia.
F. R. MYERS. Gen’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
♦Second day.	‘