Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victiirus; vlve quasi eras moriturus.
Volume X.	. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 17, 1877.	-	Number 28.
The Loving Cup "of the Papyrus.
BY JOHN BOYLE 0’REn.I.Y. '
*
[On Saturday, the 3d Inst., at the dinner of “The Papyrus,” a club composed of the literary men and artists of Boston, a beautiful crystal “ Loving Cup ” was presented to the club by Mr. Wm. A. Hovey, Editor of the Transcript. The following poem was read by Mr. John Boyle O’Reilly, Vice-President of “The Papyrus”:]
Wise men use days as husbandmen use bees, And steal rich drops from every pregnant hour;
Others, like wasps on blossomed apple-trees, Find gall, not honey, in the sweetest flower.
Congratulations for a scene like this!
The olden times are here—these shall be olden When, years to come, remembering present bliss, We sigh for past Papyrian dinners golden.
We thank the gods! we call them back to light— Call back to hoary Egypt for Osiris,
Who first made wine, to join our board to-night, And drain this loving cup with the Papyrus.
He comes 1 the Pharaoh’s god! fling wide the door Welcome! Osiris ! See—thine old prescription
Is honored here; and thou shalt drink once more With men whose treasured ensign is Egyptian !
A toast! a toast! our guest shall give a toast!
’ By Nilns’ flood! we pray thee, god, inspire us!
He smiles ; he wills: let not a word be lost—
His hand upon the cup, he speaks:—
“ Papyrus ! ”
“I greet ye! and mine ancient nation shares
In greeting fair from Ammon, Ptah, and Isis,
Whose leaf ye love—dead Egypt’s leaf, that bears Our tale of pride from Cheops to Cambyses.
“ We gods of Egypt, who are wise with age—	•
Five thousand years have washed us clean of passion—
A golden era for this board presage,
While ye do keep this cup in priestly fashion.
■“ We love to see the bonds of fellowship
Made still more sacred by a fine tradition;
We bless this bowl that moves from lip to lip
In love’s festoons, renewed by every mission.
“Intern the vessel from profaning eyes;
The lip that kisses it should have special merit;
Thus every sanguine draught shall symbolize
And consecrate the true Papyrian spirit.
“For brotherhood, not wine, this cup should pass;
Its depths should ne’er reflect the eye of malice:
Drink toasts to strangers with the social glass,
But.drink.to Brothers withthis lovingchalice.
“And now, Papyrus, each one pledge each;
And let this formal tie be warmly cherished, No words are needed for a kindly speech—
The loving Thought will live when words have perished.* *’
[The cup now passed from hand to hand and from lip to lip, each member rising to receive it from his neighbor. When it reached the head of the table, the President, Mr. Henry M. Rogers, read these lines:]
BROTHERHOOD I	’
Voiceless is Memnon and the Sphynx forsaken!
Dust is the scroll that bore the magic spell;
Not e’en Belzoni’s art again can waken
. Egypt’s dread god, more mysteries to tell.
I drink that toast of the great god Osiris!
No meaner thought this chalice should profane!
The pledge is Brotherhood with you, Papyrus!
The god who spake it must not speak in vain!
Mirabeau the Tribune.
Mirabeau was under prosecution for the publication of a disreputable work, “The Secret History of the Court of Berlin,” when the elections of 1789 began. The great ability and vigorous eloquence which he h id displayed in conducting his early legal difficulties were still fresh in the memory of his native province. Nevertheless a bitter humiliation was-in store for him; for, having presented himself before the college of nobles as a candidate for election, he was rather contemptuously rejected. It was then that he pronounced those formidable words which may serve as a preface to the career of the great tribune. “Aristocrats have always conspired to ruin those of their number who have declared themselves patrons of the people. So perished the last of the Gracchi, but before expiring he hurled towards heaven a handful of blood-stained dust, and from that dust sprung Marius.” On leaving the assembly of the nobles, he entered the college of the third estate, where he was received with enthusiasm and elected by acclamation. Marseilles followed the example of Aix, his native city, so that the man scornfully rejected by his peers appeared as the chosen representative of the two leading popular constituencies of Southern France.
To understand the magnitude of the career which now lay open before Mirebeau we need only cast a glance at the state of French society in 1789, at the opening of the States General. Since the last reunion of the national body in 1614, society had advanced, but institutions and laws had remained stationary. The assembly found itself face to face with a situation which can never be other than perilous: public opinion was far in advance, facts far in the rear; the government must step forward nearly two
434
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
centuries in order to overtake the nation. But with what energy of character, promptness of decision and genius was it not necessary that the royal authority should be endowed in order to conduct so tremendous a movement! And what foresight, wisdom, moderation and good will must not the Assembly have possessed in order to second the monarch in so formidable an undertaking! Unfortunately, everything was out of place. The royal authority, represented by Louis XVI, was gifted with wisdom, prudence, and a sincere desire of promoting the public welfare, but possessed neither the genius nor the energy of character demanded by the situation; the Assembly was conspicuous for firmness, decision, genius and passionate ardor, but utterly devoid of prudence, wisdom, moderation, or good will. Add to this that it met in the heart of a city and in the midst of a population inflamed by the burning theories of Voltaire and Jean Jacques; and that it found itself from the first placed between two sovereignties independent of if not hostile to each other: the sovereignty of the Bourbons with its fourteen centuries of traditions and recollections, - and the sovereignty of public opinion which, like Minerva from the brain of Jupiter, had sprung armed and terrible from the writings of the philosophists of the 18th century and which burned with eagerness to convert into facts all the ideas and theories which had been circulating with general approval for upwards of fifty years. Besides, it must not be forgotten that the perils and difficulties of the situation were still more complicated by the profound corruption of morals which had infected all classes since the days of the Regent and the ascendancy of Pompadour, and by the ardent longing for novelty and change inspired by the writings of the so-called philosophers, which was fermenting in the minds of all.
Such was the state of affairs with which Mirabeau and his colleagues found themselves face to face. It must be said to the credit of Mirabeau that for a time he seemed to hesitate in choosing one of the two courses which lay before him: to conduct the movement in conjunction with the monarch, or to precipitate it with the Assembly so as to transform it into a revolution. At first, indeed, he even seemed anxious to place his powerful services at the disposal of Keeker, but Keeker had all the inefficiency and selfsufficiency of mediocrity; and though too weak to give the impulse himself, he was yet too vain to be indebted for it to another. Thenceforth Mirabeau’s decision was taken. After a last stormy interview with the minister, he burst from the palace exclaiming: “I shall not return, but they will hear from me,” and the history of the next decade proves how faithfully his promise was kept. What he desired above all else was employment for his great powers, and the political influence to which they must inevitably lead him. As he had linked his fortunes with those of the third estate when rejected by the nobles, so now when repulsed by the minister he cast his genius and eloquence on the side of the factious Assembly. Another Prince Eugene spurned by another French monarch, he too carried his sword over to the enemy; but the sword of Mirabeau was a sword of fire which was destined not only to humble but to consume the French monarchy. The fault was one that could not be repaired; the Bourbons had refused precisely the two things of which they stood in most urgent need— the eagle eye and lion strength of Mirabeau.	'
On the 23rd of June, 1789, the great tribune entered upon his new role. In revolutions as in battles there are critical moments when a charge ordered or a word said may de
cide the fate of the day. Such was the case too on this memorable occasion. When the messenger of Louis presented himself before the Assembly, ordering the members to disperse, the majority remained hesitating and undecided ; but when Mirabeau arose and with a voice of thunder cried out the memorable “ Go tell your master that we are here by the will of the people and that we shall withdraw only at the point of the bayonet,” the altered situation was clearly defined—a democratic revolution stood face to face with royal reform, the sovereignty of the people confronted the sovereignty of the king. ’
The storming of the Bastille, the sacking of the Tuileries and the murder of Louis XVI were all foreshadowed in this harangue of Mirabeau; they were, we may say, only the necessary conclusions drawn from his premises by such logicians as Marat, Danton, and Robespierre. From this day forth the spirit of revolution seems personified in the Constituent Assembly, and the Assembly is personified in one man, Mirabeau. All power is in his hands; his word is law; his will reigns supreme, he rules in the name of the Revolution as Richelieu ruled in the name of Louis XIII, and overawes friend and foe alike by his iron force of character and reckless audacity as well as by the instinct which all seem to have of his genius.
The whole of the first part of his career is devoted to placing on a solid basis the new-born power of the Revolution, because the power of the Revolution is his own. He fairly buries the throne beneath mountains of humiliation, insult, and outrage, because the power of the throne interferes with the power of the Assembly, which is wielded by Mirabeau. In this manner we may, to a certain extent, explain though not excuse the most glaring faults, errors, and political crimes of the great tribune, his factious harangues, his passionate appeals to insurrection, and his long and bitter struggle against order, religion and the princi-ciples of political morality. The whole history of France in fine during the momentous years ’89, ’90 and ’91 is scarcely anything more than the history of Mirabeau, and while we find recorded in its pages the destruction of numberless abuses we also find inscribed therein the ruin of the French monarchy; it is the history of a revolution which might have been simply a salutary reform had the genius and energy of Mirabeau, instead of being cast on the side of the mob, been thrown into the balance on the side of legitimate government.	.
But time and space do not permit us to dwell at greater length on the annals of this interesting epoch. Let it suffice to say that Mirabeau once fairly engaged in his life and death struggle with the old regime, once fairly started on his careerof destruction and demolition, marched forward with such boldness and resolution that royalism had soon no other refuge left it than the arms of its redoubtable adversary. When at length all the barriers which separated Mirabeau from authority and power were overthrown, when events had reached such a crisis that it became not only possible but even necessary that he should succeed to the helm of state, he began to perceive that the danger which threatened his own self-created authority was to be apprehended not from the throne but from the mob, and that anarchy like a wild beast which he himself had unchained was there ready and waiting to destroy him. The necessity of a fresh and radical change of tactics then became apparent to him. Mirabeau the fiery tribune thenceforth sought to disappear, and Mirabeau the future minister to substitute himself instead; He opened negotiations with Louis and
i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	435
composed pamphlets filled with professions of respect for the royal family, but unfortunately no sooner had he determined to oppose the movement which he had hitherto led on, to repair the evils of which he had been the author, than he felt himself stricken by the hand of death. His genius was for evil; when he wished to turn himself towards good his strength and energies failed him.
The details of the last moments of this strange and powerful man are sad and afflicting. No word of God, no thought of the immortality of the soul. During his whole life a prey to the two passions of sensuality and pride, he seemed to the last to believe in nothing but sensual pleasure and the strength of his own genius. During his last agony his thoughts are all of himself, his pleasures, and his past triumphs—never once an allusion to the life beyond the grave. “ My death is the funeral of the monarchy,”—“ This head of mine is the strongest in all France,”—“ They will soon have to prepare the funeral of Achilles,”—such were his reflections. “My friend,” said he to Cabanis, “I shall die to-day, there is nothing therefore left me but to wrap myself up in perfumes and die crowned with roses.” Shortly before expiring he demanded in imperious tones that opium should be brought him, and after drinking off a potion he breathed his last.
Thus died, on the 21 of April, 1791, Gabriel Honore de Mirabeau, that extraordinary combination of qualities and defects—the man of so much genius who might have been a man of so much glory—a man in fine who lacked only virtue to be entitled to our unqualified admiration. He was a giant among men, but a giant whose head genius held high aloft while passion dragged his feet through filth and mire below. Were it not an idle question to discuss, it might perhaps be asserted that by his death, however premature, he escaped a wreck of fortune and influence which he himself had rendered inevitable. It is all in vain that great men fling themselves before critical political situations, as Attila flung himself before his fierce and clamorous hordes;—political situations are changed with much less facility than armies are moved. In ’89, Mirabeau, hand in hand with legitimate authority, might have been the instrument of much good; in ’91 it was too late; he had done too much for the Revolution, and the utmost he could aspire to was to die in combating its excesses. But this palm was too bright and glorious to be added to his crown; this wreath of which he had shown himself unworthy was not destined to decorate his tomb. W.
Origin of Gothic Architecture.
The most ancient specimens of masonry on the globe are the Pyramids of Egypt, which were built about 1570 B. C. ; and the most ancient in Europe are the Round Towers in Ireland. The object for which the latter were erected is still a mystery; the faculty of Trinity College, Dublin, offered a large gold medal for the best essay on the uses for which they were intended, but the prize was not won. The tower on the Island of Inniscatby, or Scattery, in the river Shannon, near Limerick, is 120 feet high and only 22 feet in circumference at the base, the height being seventeen times the diameter; it was struck by lightning and split at the top. The verticalness of these towers, which are scattered over the whole island, is truly wonderful, after standing little less than three thousand years! Surrounding the fine tower already mentioned are the ruins of nine churches, some in a fair state of preservation; of others the founda
tions only can be traced. Where enough of the ruins are standing, all show the high-pitched roof, the large pointed arched windows in the gables, and other windows and doors pointed. At Clonmacnoise, founded by St. Kieran in 548, on the lower Shannon, we find the ruins of a monastery as large as a town, with numerous ruins of churches. The mullioned tracery of the great window and the sculptured ornamentation of the principal door of the Cathedral are subjects of wonder, while the fame of the great cross in the graveyard is worldwide. Coeval with these are the ruins -in Glendalough, called also the Seven Churches, also St. Kevin’s Bed. Here is found another of those mysterious round towers, with the ruins of seven churches, all in the pointed style of architecture.
These buildings must have been erected about the time of St. Patrick’s death, in 493; for when St. Kevin was elevated to the episcopal dignity he built a cathedral near the abbey church, and it is recorded that the Saint then paid a visit to his friend St. Kieran at Clonmacnoise, in 549, but found that he had died three days before his arrival.
Many legends are told of this interesting place. High above, in the face of the beetling rocky mountain, is a small cave 100 feet above the black waters of the lake, which was used by St. Kevin as a sleeping place. The population of the surrounding country hold a pilgrimage or patron there on the 3d of every June. The person who enters the’“ Bed ” risks his life in doing so. The writer once attended one of those patrons, and had the good for tune to get into the “ Bed ” safe, and, what was still better, got out of it without breaking his neck or being drowned.
St. Patrick was not the first missionary sent from Rome to convert the Scoto Milesians. The appointment of St. Patrick as Bishop of all Ireland, or Archbishop, was owing to the death of St. Palladius, who had first been sent by Pope Celestine. It is asserted that four former Bishops had been sent from Rome to preach to the pagan inhabitants of Hibernia, but had only poor success, probably owing to their ignorance of the Gaelic language. Palladius and his four companions were less than a year in Ireland, when, according to Venerable Bede, he was expelled by the natives and died amongst the Albanian Picts or Scots, in the year 431. When Pope Celestine heard of the death of Palladius he immediately consecrated the young Celtic priest a Bishop, at the recommendation of St. Martin of Tours, who was his maternal granduncle, under the name of Pa-tricius, patrician being a title of honor among the Romans.
It would seem that from the very first announcement of Christianity to the Milesians they devoted themselves with a loving ardor to the erection of edifices suitable to the worship of Almighty God, then just made known to them. Although there were Christians in Hibernia before the arrival of St. Patrick in 432, it is doubtful if there were any permanent stone churches built there until several years after the Saint had commenced his apostolate. But after they did begin to build, so permanent were their structures that innumerable ruins, emblems of the piety of our forefathers, still cover the face of the country. In examining that valuable work “The Lives of the Irish Saints,” by Conyngham, I have found recorded the date of foundation and the name of founders of one hundred and sixty-five abbeys and monasteries before the close of the seventh century, all of the larger and more important class, while numbers untold of parish churches and country chapels are not mentioned; in fact they are so numerous that they could not be counted. The total number recorded
436	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
is five hundred and twenty-one, and numbers of these display the finest lines of architecture and are the admiration of persons skilled in that science.
The amount of destruction committed by the Danes upon this class of structures can never be known; it must have been great, as the valuable articles enriching them tended to excite their cupidity, besides which the pious inmates never offered any resistance. In the Abbey of Bangor there were slaughtered in one day nine hundred monks. The Danish power in Dublin was broken however, by their defeat at Clontarf in 1014, where the venerable old king, Brian Boroimhe, was killed in his tent after the battle was over, by fugitive Danes; still they held their own in many other places, in Cork, Belfast and Carrickfergus, for instance; but as they received no more reinforcements from the north, they gradually became absorbed in the general population. Their descendants can be traced to this day, by the word “son,” terminating their names, as we see so commonly the case with the Scandinavians in the Northwestern States here at this time.
The first man of British birth who ever wrote or made a record of Saxon events was Gildas, surnamed the wise. He doubts' if his countrymen, the ancient Britons, left any manuscripts to transmit to posterity a knowledge of their origin, as he says he was obliged to follow in his writings the accounts given of his country by foreigners. .He wrote in the 6th century, about 550. Venerable Bede flourished in his monastic home in Yarrow, or Jarrow, at the beginning of the seventh century; he wrote from documents and records prepared for his especial use by the Saxon Bishops of Britain, at the express orders of the Abbot of St. Augustine’s in Canterbury, and approved and blessed by Pope Gregory in. These documents are still extant, and great rivalry was exhibited by various churches in Europe to obtain a copy, as they had to be written on parchment and their production was very slow. The writings of Venerable Bede are held in the highest esteem. Providence seemed to have ordained him to fill up that portion of the history of the Anglo Saxon-Church which would otherwise have remained a blank- Such was the state, of education in Britain in the seventh century. Letters were unknown, except to such monks as passed over from Ireland to serve in connection with missionaries from Rome. Forty-eight years after the landing of St. Augustine in the Isle of Thanet, on the coast of Kent, Oswald, King of Northumbria, solicited a supply of missionaries from the monks of St. Columkill, or Columba, on the island of Iona, one of the Hebrides on the coast of Caledonia. This was about the year 644. From this Irish monastery came St. Aidan. He obtained a grant from the king of the Isle of Lindisfarne, on the coast of Northumbria, on which he founded another monastery like that on Iona. From these two great establishments afterwards issued nearly all the missionaries and patron Saints of the Northeast of Europe, from the German Ocean to the Black Sea, and the wilds of Sarmatia. St. Aidan himself is the patron of the Northern Saxons; St. Wilfrid converted the Frieselanders, and St. Virgilius was patron and Bishop of Salzburg. But it is impossible to enumerate the names of all those missionaries who founded monasteries in the various countries they converted. That illustrious Frenchman, Count de Montalembert, in his “ Monks of the West,” states that the number of monasteries founded by Irish monks outside of Ireland was so great that he had to condense the number from an ancient and truthful historian,, who felt conscious that it fell far short of the actual num
ber : namely, thirteen in Scotland, twelve in England, seven in France, twelve in Armorica or Brittany, seven in Lorraine, ten in Alsatia, sixteen in Bavaria, fifteen in Rhetia, Helvetia and Allemania, six in Italy, and many in Thuringia and on the left bank of the lower Rhine—say one hundred.
And to more fully illustrate the piety and holy zeal of those devoted men, whom the gratitude of European nations—converted, edified, and civilized by them—has placed upon their altars as the founders and patrons of their churches, whose foundations they have moistened with their blood, and .whose holy relics are still venerated under the pointed roofs and groined ceilings erected by their own holy hands in the same pointed style of Celtic architecture that they were accustomed to in their own beloved country. Count de Montalembert also informs us that there were one hundred and fifty (of whom thirty-six were martyrs) in Germany; forty-five, of whom six were martyrs, in Gaul; thirty in Belgium; thirteen in Italy; eight, all martyrs, in Norway and Iceland.
No more illustrious name can be found among the patron saints of any diocese in Italy than that of St. Cataldo, patron of Tarento, in the South of Italy. His name in Ireland was Cathal, and he had been president of the great monastic school of Lismore; but on his return from a pilgrimage to Jerusalem he was retained at Tarento and consecrated Bishop of that city, by order of the Pope, and from there his fame for piety and learning spread over Europe.
Early in the 11th century the Christian religion was more widely disseminated by the preaching of the Irish missionaries through the North of Europe than through the South. As the Northern Kings led their armies south they were accompanied by their chaplains, Irish priests, who at every available point erected churches for their Christian children in the Celtic style they had seen in the country of their birth, and as they had done in the countries they had just converted—temporary buildings at first, as we have seen here in our own day, but by degrees rhe style became more elaborated as the times became more peaceable.
Sir David Brewster, in his article on Universal Chronology, under date A. D. 1005, says: “ The old churches began to be rebuilt in a new style of architecture; for soon after the battle of Clontarf, fought in 1014, the Irish displayed a wonderful desire to rebuild their ruined churches, monasteries and convents, and it was within the next two centuries that nearly all those splendid churches were erected whose ruins now cover the land, and whose destruction was effected chiefly by order of Cromwell about the middle of the 17th century, and from the middle of the 19th century their places are being supplied by a great improvement on the former beautiful style, and which is the only style now used in the erection of ecclesiastical edifices by any class of Christians.” The style here referred to is what is now called the Gothic, on account of its prevalence through the northern countries of Europe, where it was introduced by the Irish missionaries, who had long been familiar with it in their native land, and which should be more properly called the Irish or Celtic style of architecture. “ To Ire-Inad," in the eloquent language of Professor GSrres, the German philosopher, “ to Ireland the affrighted spirit of truth had flown during the Gothic irruptions in Europe, and there made its abode in safety until Europe returned to repose, when those hospitable philosophers who had given it asylum were called by Europe to restore its effulgent light over her bedarkened forests.”
The personal prowess of endurance and desperate valor
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
437
of the Danes, Saxons and Goths were such as the world - had never before seen. They believed their god, Odin, was the god of war, whose favors they received in correspondence to the number of enemies they slew. It was the right of the warrior to drink his meath or spruce-beer out of the skulls of the enemies whom he had killed in battle.
• And as it requires time to convert a nation to Christianity, time to tame down the instincts of the fierce warriors r	to those of peaceable and devout Christians, the more
।	turbulent went to the'front and never returned ,• those who
• remained at home were humanized by the missionaries, and in those intervals of peace, churches were erected and i	bands of mechanical monks were formed, headed by experi-
|	enced men in the various trades required in architecture,
known as the Building Monks, or Free Masons, whose con-j;	stant practice gradually led them to the attainment of a
*	degree of perfection.
:	During the wars that had existed on the Continent of
Europe up to the 11th, 12th and 13th centuries the science of architecture was lost, and only restored by being brought from Ireland. The first time that the word Gothic, as applied to architecture, was used, was in the 16th century, l	during the reign of Elizabeth, when many of the venerable
>	ecclesiastical institutions were blown up from their foun-
dations with gunpowder, and the old Irish style of build-[	ing was cried down. Sir William Wotton wrote against it,
i	calling it "■Gothic," which term meant in England any-
|	thing ruffianly or savage. Sir Christophen Wren, the Eng-
[	lish architect of the 17th century, called this style, “ a gross
I	conglomeration of heavy, melancholy monkish piles.” He
►	scowled upon Westminster Abbey, St. Stephen’s Chapel,
York minster and Salisbury Cathedral. But the superior beauty of this Irish or Celtic style for ecclesiastical purposes is proved by its adoption in every country on earth where there are Christian congregations, the Catholic Irish ■	priest, even in the far-off Australia, being always first to
||	show the example. The Germans make no claim to this
style, because in the sense in which the word Gothic was i*	first used it was intended by the English as an insult to
I	the whole Teutonic race.	J. F.
I	--------------------------
।	.	Plautus.
/	T. Maccius Plautus, by far the most celebrated as well
.	as the wittiest of the Roman comic dramatists, was born in
i|	the little town of Sarcini, in Umbria, about 227 years be-
ll •- fore the Christian era. His original name, according to *	the most reliable authority, seems to have been Titus
■	Maccius; but, to use an old saw, being gifted by nature
with a very fine understanding in both senses of the word, the cognomen Plautus was subjoined, which in the Umbrian or Oscan language means “flat feet.”
The early years of Plautus were spent in a state of most abject poverty, his father being a poor uneducated slave* without any means of support save what he could acquire by his own private industry. At an early age, chafing under the yoke of hardships and poverty, and ambitious to emerge from obscurity, he resolved to go to Rome to try and better his fortune in that great capital, where he arrived about the end of the first Punic war. Here, if we may credit tradition, he served an apprenticeship to the dramatic profession, similar to that which was many centuries afterwards the means of revealing the powers of a much greater dramatist, Shakespeare, having engaged as a common servant He soon, by what might be termed the
most rigid economy, realized a considerable little fortune. Ambitious to gain still more, he embarked his little all in some mercantile speculation, but, having neither commercial training nor tact, he soon lost all his fortune, and was quickly reduced to such a degree of poverty as forced him to labor in a mill for his daily support. Here he toiled and moiled from morning to night, engaged in grinding corn and in other menial employments of a similar nature. However, he occasionally found a few spare moments, apart from his many occupations, to devote to the comic muse and it is said that at this period of his life he composed two comedies, but neither of them is now extant. At length convinced of his genius for dramatic writing, he turned his attention solely to that pursuit, and in a short time became very popular. He is said to have written in all more than one hundred and thirty plays, only twenty of which have come down to us. His plays, sparkling with wit and humor, soon gained great popularity amongst the Romans, who appreciated jokes, rude satire and boisterous mirth, better than anything else, and these were ever the true characteristics of the writings of Plautus. Whenever any of hh plays were brought forth upon the stage they were attended by a large crowd of interested spectators, and these included not only many of the Roman nobles but likewise persons of every rank from the most renowned patricians to the lowest plebeians, so much did the execrable puns, shrewd aphorisms and often senseless wit contained in these plays enhance his popularity amongst the masses.
The writings of Plautus have often been the objects of very harsh criticism, in consequence of a certain coarseness and indelicacy which runs throughout the greater number of them. However, without these now undesirable qualities he could never have acquired the popularity which he did amongst the Romans. He wrote simply to please and gain the applause of the people, and never could he have been successful in this had he not sometimes degenerated into triviality, buffoonery, scurrility, and sometimes even obscenity. It was precisely such literature as this that the people of his time looked for; and this he tried, and not without success, to give them; and hence was forced occasionally to descend to those rude and indecent expressions which are noticeable in his works.
We have no desire to conceal or misrepresent the defects of this dramatist; what we wish to be understood as saying is, that many of them are due to the times in which he lived, the people he studied to please, and the meagre circumstances in which his poverty placed him. It must be remembered that his plays were written solely to be represented and not to be read, and little did he think when he was writing them that centuries after his death they would be in the hands of the learned—that they would be transmitted from generation to generation, and would be the fountain whence many of our modern writers were to draw in abundance that excellent quality which they style "vis comica” the principal characteristic of the plays of Plautus. Moreover, it must be remembered that Plautus had no aristocratic patrons like Ennius and Terence. He was in fact the most plebeian of the plebians, and had very few, if any, opportunities of familiarizing himself with all the niceties, refinements and elegancies of the Latin tongue. Plautus wrote at a period, too, when his country as yet possessed no writer of literary language. Every phrase was drawn from the living source of conversation, and, being compelled to associate himself with peo-
438
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
pie of the lowest rank, it was but natural that he should frequently make use of the vulgar and sometimes indecent phrases which were constantly used by those with whom he conversed. But why attack the heathen poet who was nurtured under the influence of a pagan mythology with such harsh terms and pursue him with such invectives and censures, when even some modern writers, professing to be Christians, may be almost placed on a par with him in point of vulgarity of language and indelicacy of expression ?
With all his shortcomings there is perhaps no poet who can lay claim to so many successful imitators as Plautus. Moliere, for example, the great French dramatist, has imitated the “Amphityron,” one of the first pieces of Plautus, in a piece of the same name, which is one of the most immoral among the comedies of that writer. He has also imitated and even surpassed the “Aulularia,” wherein he depicts in his truest colors a picture of the “ Miser.” Even Shakespeare consulted the writings of our heathen poet, and has imitated him, and even surpassed the “ Menaechmi ” or “ Comedy of Errors.” Many others could be cited who have had recourse to his writings, such as Schiller, Dryden, Fielding, Addison, etc., all of whom availed themselves of plots and scenes suggested by him.
The Latin style of Plautus excels in briskness of dialogue as well as in purity of language, and Varro, speaking of him, says: “ Si Musae Latineloquivelleut, Plautino sermone lo-querentur.”—If the Muses were to speak Latin they would use the language of Plautus. His plots are carefully and intelligently drawn, the language though Archaic in form and construction, is plain and intelligible, and the humor genuine and seldom offensive. The chief excellence of Plautus is generally reputed to consist in the wit and comic force of his dialogue, and indeed one can hardly understand how Horace, a man of refined taste and evidently very capable of appreciating humor, could pass upon his writings such a harsh criticism in his “ Ars Poetica ” as:
“At vestri proavi Plautinos et numeros et Laudaveu salis; nimium patientes utiumque Ne dicam stulte, mirati,”— .
“ But your ancestors praised the poetry and wit of Plautus; too tamely, I will not say foolishly, admiring each of them.” This is considered as a too severe and unjust criticism, since it is evident that wit and vis comica are the two principal characteristics of the writings of Plautus. His writings did not all suit the refined and elegant taste of the writers of the Augustan age, hence it is that they pronounce unfavorably on the merits of this favorite comedian, in the same manner as the wits of Queen Anne’s time found fault with the “ barbarism” of Shakespeare. No greater compliment can be paid to his abilities , as a comic writer, and no greater censure can be passed upon his successors in dramatic composition than to observe that for the space of 500 years, with all the disadvantages of obsolete language and diction, he commanded and received that applause which no other writer was able to dispute with him. Plautus died, it is generally believed, in the year 184 B. C., when Terence was in his ninth year, having achieved success as a writer unprecedented among his countrymen.	A. M.
—Indolence is a shameful vice, that of base souls, of apathetic hearts, of narrow minds. A constant ardor for work shows a superior intellect and a powerful will.—Mgr. Peschoud.
Scientific Notes.
—The hydra-polypus is found in stagnant fresh-water.
—There are forty species of animal anemones or actinia.
—The Soophytes which produce coral reefs are of the genera Meaudriua, Caryphyllia, and Astrea.
—Bory de St. Vincent makes 82 genera of Microscopic Animalculae. 400 species have been drawn.
—Wilhelm Hofmeister, the distinguished vegetable anatomist, successor to Von Mohl in the chair of Botany at Tubingen died on the 12th of January last.
—Infusoria, so little contemplated, have been raised by Ehrenberg into scientific estimation. He fed them with agreeable colored substances, in order to perceive the internal organs.
—Mr. F. B. Meek, the eminent Paleontologist of the Smithsonian Institute, died at Washington, D. C., on the 21st of December, 1876, having reached the completion of his 59th year.
—Alfred Smee, the inventor of “ Smee’s Battery,” for which he received the gold medal of the Society of Arts, and the author of works on electro-metallurgy, electrobiology, and other subjects, died on the 11th of January, in his 59th year.
—Sponges are cities of animaculae, their openings or pores being like streets and lanes, and the animals living in minute holes in the partitions. Sponge is obtained in commercial abundance at the Island of Sime, near Rhodes. It is brought up by male and female divers, whose endurance of water lasts ten or twelve minutes.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Campana has written an opera called “Harold, the Last King of the Saxons.”
—Elizabeth Stuart Phelps is at work on a'story which is to take up the woman question.
—Leon Vasseur is writing a new opera for the Bouffes Parisiens, entitled “ La Sorrentide.”
—Charles Matthews wishes it understood that he is not, as has been reported, engaged in writing his autobiography.
—The Library Table is to be issued henceforth as a weekly. It will try to fill the same place which The Bound Table tried to fill.
—Strakosch is advertising exhibitions of Prof. Elisha Gray’s telephone at New York, when music played in Philadelphia will be heard.
—A new opera bouffe by Offenbach, called “La Foire Saint-Laurent,” has met with partial success only at the Folies Dramatiques, in Paris.
—Longfellow will have in the April Atlantic a poem about the destruction, in October, 1745, of the French fleet, which was sailing to attack Boston.
—Francois Krezma, a violin prodigy, aged 15, a Croatian by birth, and ex-pupil of the Vienna Conservatoire, is in Paris, and is going to London in the se ison.
—England depends much on Americans for its information in the East. Mr. W. J. Stillman’s book on “Herzegovina and the Late Uprising” is awaited with interest.
—The “Philharmoniker” of Laibach, said to be the oldest musical society in Germany, celebrated, on January 22, the one hundred and fiftieth anniversary of its foundation.
—A short autobiography of Barry Cornwall is in press in England. The volume will also contain a biographical notice and some unpublished poems and sketches of his literary contemporaries.
—Dr. Schliemann, it is reported, has sold his forthcoming book to Mr. Murray for $33,000. The excavations continued at Myheuae by the Greek government resulted lately in the finding of some additional rings of massive gold and of great value.
—Miss M. A. Dawson, of Addison, Steuben County, N.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
439
Y., who had lately published a volume entitled “ Puzzles and Oddities,” which contains a great deal of matter capable of affording amusement to children, died last month. She was a well-educated lady and a good Catholic.
—The violinist Remenyi, at a soiree given to M. Pierre Veron, of the Paris Charivari, related a remark made by Paganini, which is not generally known: “When I have been a day without practicing,” he said, “ I at once perceive a difference, but when I remain two days without playing, then the public find it out.”
—Miss Rosalie Poe, the sister of the poet, who died in Washington several years ago, once told a bookseller of that city, to whom she went and asked permission to borrow a copy of her brother’s poems, that everything belonging to Poe had been taken from her by certain parties for a mere pittance, $10 or $12, and afterward sold at high prices to English publishers.
—The king of Sweden decorated the composer Svensdeu last month, after hearing his new symphony. Svensden was married to an American girl when he lived in this country a few years ago. The symphony was performed in the palace in the presence of about sixty leading citzens, who sipped chocolate and munched cake while listening to the different movements.
—“Templeton” writes from Boston to Tice Hartford Courant: “Longfellow celebrated his 70th birthday, this week, as the nation now knows. Emerson must be considerably past this period. Dr. Holmes is fast drawing toward it, though he is so slight of form and brisk in motion that he appears several years younger. Lowell is probably ten years less advanced in life. Whipple is still younger. After these we have no distinguished literary men till we reach Mr. Howells, of another generation. It is hoped that all these gentlemen may reach the age of 70 as peacefully as our greatest poet, and may be as courageous in facing the fact before the public.”
—The Brothers Hug, of Manchester, have become possessed of the pianoforte of Ludwig von Beethoven. It is the instrument he used in Vienna, and according to the name-plate on the front, the maker’s name is Conrad Graf, of Vienna. The piano is an old-fashioned grand, but is tetrachord throughout the treble, the bass being trichord. The three deepest bass notes (trichoro) are wrapped thinly with copper wire. The piano has three pedals, and at one time was prob ibly a powerful instrument. It has been very much played upon, bearing the marks of excessive wear and tear. The keys, especially in the middle portion of the key-f board, are quite hollowed by excessive use.
\ —Lord O’Hagan, speaking of Irish music, says: “‘The touching language of our country’s music’—as it was described by the lyrist by whom it has been ‘married to immortal verse’—is a unique possession which we should cherish tenderly and proudly. It had its birth in a remote antiquity, and has continued through all the chances and changes of weary centuries, to be the delight of our people, interpreting, in its mingled gayety and plaintiveness, their peculiar nature, and associated with all the varying details of their mournful history. It has been the subject of admiration to other countries since the early days when teachers were brought from the Abbey of B tn-gor to instruct the students of France in Irish psalmody. It compelled the praises of Cambrensis and of Bacon, and drew from Handel the declaration that he had rather be the author of one Irish air than of all the compositions which had won his reputation. Our musical talent is described by Moore, no doubt with something of exaggeration, as ‘the only one for which our English neighbors ever deigned to allow us any credit.’ And that talent is still spread broadcast through this island, but wasted and useless for lack of cultivation. Multitudes of our ancient melodies, notwitstanding the pious care of such men as Petrie and Joyce, remain uncollected, and are gradually perishing as generations succeed each other, and a permanent record of them is wanting still. Surely considerations like these should rouse us to labor for the preservation of all that remains of the‘sweet sad music’ of our ancestors, and to cherish the living genius of the race which gave it being. What nation is there, if gifted with such a heritage from the past and such a capacity in the present, which would not be reverentially careful to preserve the one and generously
enthusiastic in developing the other? The world is filled with the fame of Irish music by the great composers of other lands, who have made its melodies—its ‘ Aileen Aroon,’ its ‘Last Rose of Summer,’ its‘Minstrel Boy,’—familiar to every civilized nation in the most popular operas of the modern world; and why should the country from which they come—the country of Moore, and Balfe. and Wallace —allow itself to suffer the reproach of being still lincuriosa slarum] and refuse to put away that indifference which is too clearly shown in the state of our subscription list?’”
Books and Periodicals.
Eighth Annual Report of St. Mary’s Industrial School for Boys, Near Baltimore, Md. 1877.
Our attention has been more particularly called to the above report owing to the very favorable notice given of the Institution by the Grand Jury of the city of Baltimore, sometime ago, when deputed to visit and examine its workings. It seems to be a model reform school, conducted on principles the most Christian and humane, and the success of the plan over that generally followed in State Reformatories is the hightest testimonial in its favor. The Grand Jury, in their report, say : “Here system, warmth, healthproducing and health-sustaining influences were found. The inmates [261 in number] seem contented. The dormitories, arranged in large open rooms, well ventilated yet sufficiently warmed, presented a comfortable and cleanly appearance. This and other humane and reformatory institutions in our midst, though little known to the public at large, go on year by year, under the providence of God, doing their work of charity and general beneficence. The good achieved by them is immeasurable.” There is printed at the institution a weekly paper entitled the Sunday Companion, a juvenile publication of some merit, and very well printed—the work of the boys themselves,—showing that the printing department is not much, if in anything, inferior to the other departments where trades are taught. The Eighth Annual Report is also printed by the boys, and is quite a neat piece of work. With the training and instruction given in the school-room, it seems to be the aim of the directors of St. Mary’s Reformatory to keep before the minds of the boys the important fact that to a great extent they have the shaping of their future destiny in their' own hands; that they are forming habits which will accompany them through life, rendering them useful respected and happy if they shall choose the way of virtue and industry, or miserable and wretched if they shall follow the paths of idleness and vice. The directors say they find the boys tractable under their discipline, and show good material for moral and religious training.
—At the last regular monthly meeting of the St. Paul (Minn.) Academia (savs the Pioneer Press) the Rev. John Shanley, of the Cathedral read a “paper” before that body on the unhappy Tasso and his times. A student himself of the glorious' Propaganda, and a true admirer of that classic land of genius now clouded by insane infidelity and vexed by the foolish and wicked Carbonari, Tasso and his Christian muse were to him a love-study; and the charming result was shown in a paper unsurpassed for true sublimity, profound erudition and varied instruction by any previous one presented to the Academia. Touching lightly on the poetry and literature of other lands, and the decadence of its Catholic spirit in Tasso’s day, and glancing at the grosser conceptions of the Germanic and English minds, in poetry, art and literature—regretting that American literati seemed still under their tutelage—he showed the claims of Catholic countries in poetry, jurisprudence, science, art and literature; and, how, even in her St. Thomas alone, Italy might well lay claim to a crown of glory over all. Il was when the heroic spirit of chivalry, culminating in the Crusades, felt itself confused and blushing under the relentless novel ridicule of the Spanish Cervantes, that Tasso’s Homeric epic on “Jerusalem Delivered” rescued it, in the glory of his Christian muse, grateful to those heroes of the Cross for crippling the aggressive Saracen, and planting the seeds of Christian civilization, international amity, and commerce throughout Europe.
-
440	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, Marell 17, 1^77.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
Choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former Students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should tase it; parents should take it; and above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address Editor Notre Dame Scholastic,
Notre Dame, Indiana
Neglect of Small Things.
Although it is the desire of all men, in their endeavors ;.	through life, to acquire wealth, honor and fame, yet they
seem in many cases to have the idea that these prizes can be gained by a sort of lottery, or that some kind goddess bestows them upon her favorites. The clerk, longing for his employer’s ease and wealth, nevertheless neglects the industry and economy by which they were acquired. He ' ।	is desirous of becoming a great merchant, but would shirk
H	the trifling details of trade. Visions of a golden harvest,
f	reaped by a single brilliant speculation, float before his
mind. He thinks that in this age of steam, electricity and ;i;	daring speculation, only a dull mind should consent to
'1'	plod along on the road to competence.
The apprentice at the bench wishes to become a skilled . i	mechanic, but he deems the time and labor spent in acquir-
;	ing the rudiments of his trade as so much lost. He sees,
’	perhaps, companions younger and weaker than himself en-
(;	gaged in work that requires more skill, and this makes him
;■;	discontented and causes him to become disgusted with the
small and seemingly unimportant parts of his trade. He cannot patiently endure the toil that crowned the success .	of his master.
;	The student, eager to acquire the scholar’s reward, can-
not bear the weary, patient toil by which it is acquired. The world is not wanting in models for our imitation, but ’	we desire to obtain our objects without labor. Few pos-
[:	sess genius as defined by Carlyle: “ A transcendent capac-
!	ity for taking trouble.” We overlook one important fact:
i:	that the life of every truly great man has been a life of con-
7	tinual labor. We are satisfied with viewing the great from
the position on w hich they stand, never tak ing into consider-tion the bitter disappointments and discouragements they \	encountered and overcame before they gained the object
which they sought. We are all willing to be employed in £	something great, something which will attract the attention
of the world, but we do not wish to pass through the novitiate necessary to attain these positions. We have no desire to attend to the small affairs of life. What a delusion! It is the small things which make up the sum of life'. They are the stepping-stones by which we ascend to the summit of success. They are the foundations on which the illustrious of all ages have erected the structures on which rest their honor and fame.	?
If we neglect to give our attention to the small affairs in life we will never be competent to manage those which	‘
require more attention. Had Napoleon despised the simple	I
duties of a lieutenant, he would not have become the great	|
general; had he not cultivated by severe study his mental	|
powers, the code which now bears his name would not now exist. There is no calling, no matter how humble, which has not been filled by great men, and the majority of them attained their high positions by faithfully fulfilling the duties of their more humble offices.
It is folly to expect success without labor, and it is equally	'
unwise to think that we all can stand so far above our fellows that our names will be conspicuous. In the past there has been but one Caesar, one Demosthenes, one Shake- •	;
spear, one Washington, one Napoleon. If a young man can-	|
not be a sun in the literary or political world, let him remember that the smaller planets contribute their share tow-	’
ards the harmony and beauty of the heavens. Let him	1
bear in mind that the world is composed of atoms the small-	j
est of which is useful. Because the sphere he is able to fill does not come up to his high notions of what is proper and	I
becoming, let him not reject it, for if he does he will surely	/
fail in life.
---- - w (
The Columbians.	|
There are two reasons why St. Patrick’s Day should be	►
celebrated at Notre Dame. The first is, because of its	k
being the natal day of the great Apostle of Ireland, and a	r
large portion of the students here are of Irish parentage	f
or descent; the other, not only because St. Patrick is the	'
patron Saint of the worthy President of the College, but also that on the Feast of the Saint ten years ago Rev. Father
Golovin was raised to the priesthood. As the Rev. Presi-	;
deut celebrates to-day the tenth anniversary of his ordina-	,
tion, his “ tin wedding,” as it were, to the Church, the cele-	’
bration of the day is naturally entered into with much zest	1
and the arrangements made for it are proportionally great.	£
For the last two weeks the Columbian Literary and De-	1
bating Society have made use of all their spare time in pre-	Is
paring a suitable Entertainment with which to commemo-	ft
rate the event, and that they succeeded well all who at-	11
tended the gathering in Washington Hall last evening can	J,
attest.
According to a custom of long standing at Notre Dame, Entertainments in honor of any festival are always given	Y
the evening before, and as the day following is a holiday	|
the extra sleep given to the students in the morning in no-	j
wise interferes with their studies; no time is lost, thusdoing	i
away with the objection usually made against Entertain-	J
ments by those who would make the year one of dry study	J
merely. The Columbians did not depart from this custom, and thus it was that their celebration of St. Patrick’s Day took place last evening.
The Entertainment was given in Washington Hall, and began at seven o’clo.ck, the hour which seems now to be fixed upon asthat when allExhibitions given in Washington
'6

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	441
Hall are to begin. The weather during the week past has not been favorable; we have had snows and thaws enough to make a couple of winters, to lay up one half the people with bad colds and rheumatism, and predispose the other half not to take a drive of several miles even to attend a celebration given in honor of St. Patrick. Yet notwithstanding the long two weeks of bad weather, Washington Hall was filled with a large and educated audience, many of whom came from cities farther distant than South Bend. There seems to be an attraction in the Entertainments given here, which draws to them people who are obliged to undergo many inconveniences to attend. The recollection, perhaps, of the many excellent programmes carried out as well as amateurs can carry them out, exercises a potent spell on our friends; and, come heat or cold, they honor us with their welcome presence.
We always feel embarrassed when we come to speak of the first part of a programme. We have given our ideas so frequently concerning the merits and demerits of the music at our Entertainments that we scarcely know what else to say. There is no necessity of repetition, and when we say that the music by the Orchestra and Cornet Band was of usual excellence we feel that we have said enough. Of that excellence, however, we may be pardoned for quoting the remarks made by a reporter of the Chicago Times on a former occasion: “ It was fairly good, and was rendered very entertaining from the fact that it was contributed entirely by ‘ home ’ talent, which was of vastly more interest to anxious parents and to the friends of the institution than anything imported could have been.”
The addresses read to the Rev. President of the College were all in exceeding good taste, elegantly written, and gracefully read. The Columbians were represented in the person of Mr. J. Kinney; the Senior Department had Mr. W. P. Breen for their spokesman; the Junior Department congratulated through Master D. Ryan, and the Minim Department through Master H. Riopelle.
It was fitting that on the national feast-day of Ireland a play in which one of Ireland’s patriots is portrayed should be enacted, hence the drama given at the Entertainment was that of “ Robert Emmet,” not as it is usually played, but entirely revised. Although the plot and much of the dialogue of the play going under the name of “ Robert Emmet ” was followed, nevertheless there were a number of scenes, and much of the dialogue and many speeches, rewritten for this occasion. It is not necessary to speak at length of the character of Emmet, for there are none of our readers unfamiliar wirh his life. During the troubles in Ireland he was arrested, tried before a court organized to convict, condemned, and executed on the charge of treason. “ His fate,” says Irving, “ made a deep impression on public sympathy. He was so young—so intelligent—so generous—so brave—so everything that we are apt to like in a young man. His conduct under trial, too, was so lofty and intrepid.” These qualities, joined to an intense love of country and hatred of oppression, have thrown a halo of. glory around his name and made it a watchword among all lovers of liberty. Such being the character of the leading role in the drama, it required much native ability to portray it truthfully. Mr. Patrick Hagan, who took the role, had been laboring under a severe attack of cold for several days, and though marks of it were still evident, his delineation of the character was good, bringing out the distinguishing traits in it with great skill. His carriage is graceful, his voice pleasant, and his elocution showing
marks of care in training. Mr. Wm. Arnold took the part of Emmet’s father with much credit, while Mr. D. Leary acted the old soldier, whose name was nearly the same as his own, in a manner deserving of praise. To Mr. Thos. Quinn was given the role of “ Kernan the Traitor.” Meanness not being a trait in Mr. Quinn’s character it evidently was a difficult task to assume for the evening, but he did assume it creditably. Mr. McGorrisk as “ Dowdal,” the friend of Emmet, did well.
The three comic characters in the play were O’Gaff, O’Doherty, and Sergeant Topfall. Mr. Lambin, as “ O’Gaff,” was very successful in bringing down the house with his drollery, and though not of Celtic descent was able to portray some of the more humorous traits of the Irish peasantry. Mr. Regan was a capital “ O’Doherty,” Irish to the brim, and flowing over with fun. His appearance alone was greeted with pleasure, and his acting was excellent, keeping the audience in the best of humor. J. Patterson, as “Sergeant Topfall,” was an excellent cockney, and succeeded well in bringing out the character. The other characters were as follows: “Corporal Thomas,” E. Sugg; “Lord Norbury,” J. Fitzgerald; “Baron George,” J. Kinney ; “ Baron Daly,” E. Saylor; “ First Soldier,” E. Davenport; “Second Soldier,” R. Calkins; “Foreman of the Jury,” W- Turnbull,-. “Connor,” J. Burke; “Casey,” V. Baca; “O’Brian,” F. Schlink; “ Kelly,” W. Dodge; “McGrath,” J. Proudhomme; and “ O’Sullivan,” E. Lonstorf. All these gentlemen took their parts with credit, although at times there was some hesitation, some awkwardness and timidity. To have perfection on a college stage is not possible ; an approach to it is seldom the case. That there were many things in the acting this night which could have been better done we do not deny; on the contrary we believe that there was much room for improvement. But when we remember that with one exception all the young gentlemen appeared for the first time, we cannot but assert that, take the Entertainment all in all, it was an honor to the Society under whose auspices it was gotten up.
The closing remarks of Rev. President Golovin were appropriate to the occasion and were warmly applauded by the students. The credit of engineering this Entertainment is due to Prof J. F. Edwards, the energetic and efficient Director of the Columbian Society, who spared no pains to make it first-class in every respect.
Personal.
—	J. H. Retz (Commercial of ’76), is living at Serena, BL
—	J. Abbott (Commercial of ’74), is in business at Morris, Ill.	-
—	Thomas Flanagan, of ’54, is practicing law at Shreveport, La.
—	Hon. John Gibbons, of ’67, has a large law practice in Keokuk, Iowa.
—Mr. Vincent O’Donald, of Peru, Ind., was at Notre Dame on Wednesday last.
—	Martin O’Brien, (Commercial) of ’65, resides at Kansas City, and is engaged in farming.
—	W. P. Freeman, (Commercial) of ’65, is in the wholesale grocery business, Iowa City, Iowa.
—	Edward Ohmer (Commercial), of’73, is with his father^-* in the furniture business, Day ton, Ohio.
—	P. F. McCullough (Commercial), of ’76, is teaching school at Pin Oak, Dubuque County, Iowa.
—	James Cuunea, of ’69, is banking at Morris, Hl., where,z \ having married, he has settled down for life.	'
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—	William Waldo, of '70, is living at Independence, Mo. Rumor has it that he is succeeding excellently.
—	Frank Gahan, (Commercial) of ’72. is connected with the firm of Gahan & Hutchinson, Clintonville, Ill.
—	Wm. Abel, of ’49, is one of the leading merchants of San Jose, California. He has succeeded well in life.
—	Thomas W. Flynn, (Commercial) of ’58, we have been told, is a cashier in the dry-goods house of A. T. Stewart & Co., New York.	’
—	F. H. Green, (Commercial) of’64, has married and settled at Grand Rapids, where, we understand, he is engaged in an extensive business.
—	James Nolan, (Commercial) of ’67, is a civil engineer connected, with the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad, Cleveland, Ohio.
—	Messrs. Carl Fetch, the artist, and E. Kitz, of Indianapolis, were at Notre Dame on the 14th. Mr. Fetch is completing a portrait of Rev. President Golovin.
—Rev. C. W. Killian, Prof. H. G. E igleston, D D., Mrs. and Miss Dodge, Misses Booth and Eberhart, of Mishawaka, and R. M. Whitner, of Goshen, Ind., were among our late visitors. ' .
—Arthur C. O’Brian (Commerciil). of ’76, has enlarged his Young Folk's Friend, published at Loogootee, Ind. We wish him every success. One of bis principal contributors is Gerald E. Sullivan, (Commercial) of ’76. We see that Mr. O’Brian has been elected Secretary of the Loogootee Thespian Club.
—The following, from the Toledo Blade, will be read with interest by the students of ’76: “ Mention was made in the notice of the drowning of Frankie Burns, last Thursday evening, of the heroic efforts made by Louis Pilliod to save the little fellow. Louis boldly plunged from the dock into the icjr current of the stream and struck out manfully for the body that was fast disappearing from view. He would undoubted^ have reached it, had not the chilling water completely exhausted him. He was obliged, in order to save his own life, to turn for shore, and it was only by the greatest exertion that he was able to feach it. Louis Pilliod certainly deserves some public recognition of his bravery. During the past three years he has saved no less than six lives, by jumping into the creek and swimming ashore with the persons who, but for his timely aid, would have been drowned. Mrs. Burns, the mother of the unfortunate lad whom he tried to save Thursday evening, it is hardly necessary to state feels a debt of gratitude to him that cannot be expressed in words, for his noble and heroic efforts in her son’s behalf.”
Iiocal Items.
—Two weeks more and Lent is over.
—General satisfaction is reported from most of the classes.
—To-morrow is Passion Sunday, and two weeks' after is Easter.
—The ground-hog theory of the weather has been well substantiated this year.
—To day is St. Patrick’s Day, and it is now being properly celebrated at Notre Dame.
—One of the Seniors has engaged the Class of Surveying to take his measure for a pair of boots.
—The Columbians have every reason to be proud of the success achieved by them last evening.
—In a short while, when the snow goes, there will be a general cleaning up around the premises.
—Rev. T. E. Walsh and Prof. Howard have consented to lecture again before the close of the season.
—The Junior Orchestra have begun their rehearsals, which have given satisfaction to the leader.
—The pressman of the Scholastic office has invented quite an ingenious cutter to be attached to the press.
—The Choral Union has in preparation a number of vocal pieces for the soiree to be given the Monday after E ister.
—The artistic drawing classes show,marked improvment
in their studies, and exhibit new specimens almost every week.
—The Band and Orchestra continue their rehearsals and show great improvement. It is safe to predict good music in June.	4
—Winter seemed to have set in again in real earnest at the end of last week, and there were several days of good sleighing.
. —The return of the snow has compelled the Minims to give their velocipedes a lift into winter quarters again in their trunk-room. •
—By mistake in the List of Excellence, Collegiate Course, published last week, the name of J. F. Larkin was omitted in the Rhetoric Class. •
—The name of John G. Ewing was omitted by mistake, last week, from the List of Excellence (Collegiate Course), under the head of Greek.
—The mammoth snow-ball in the centre of the Junior Campus is immense. We saw over forty boys tugging at it and could not move it an inch.
—The nimrods intend having a shooting tournament this afternoon, 21 yards rise and 80 yards boundary, for the championship of Notre Dame.
—Rev. Father Zahm will deliver a lecture in Phelan Hall next Thursday evening, March 22d, on “The Lintern as an aid in Scientific Demonstration.”
—By mistake, the names of A. Sievers and I. Rose were omitted from the List of Excellence last week, under the head of Reading, Preparatory Course.
—The Columbians got out real nobby cards of invitation. We like to see novelty in the invitations issued, and trust that the example will be followed hereafter.
—Vespers to-morrow afternoon are the First Vespers of St. Joseph, pages 134,135 and 136 of the Vesperal, with a Commemoration of Passion Sunday, page 83.
—The soiree which was to come off last week was postponed until Easter Monday, when the musicians intend giving something grand both instrumentally and vocally.
—The Juniors broke the monotony of the day last Wednesday, confined as they were by the snow to their hall, by getting up a little dance. R------, of course, was the best of the dancers.
•—The manner in which the General-Office has been decorated is really fine. It was in a dilapidated condition and needed a little overhauling. The carpenter-work and painting are very neat.
—In Senate vainly Blaine may blaze With oratorio spurts;
For though he “wave the shirt” for Hayes, Hayes will not waive his Schurz. '
—Messrs. Willie Coolbaugh and Willie and Amedius Coughlin, of the Minim Department, were lately the happy recipients from their parents of two velocipedes of substantial build and latest pattern.
—Work will shortly begin again on the painting in the new church. This work was interrupted by the cold weather, and as soon as mild weather sets in for good the artists will resume their work.
—Making large snow-balls seemed to be the favorite pastime of a large number of students during the week. The Seniors and Juniors seemed to vie with each other as to who could make the largest ball.
—“After gradually going and going and going, the ice has completely disappeared from the lake”; so we wrote at the beginning of the week, but the weather changed, and now the lakes are covered with ice.
—The foundations of the chapels forming the rear part of the new church will be laid this spring, and the work on this building will be continued until it is completed. Bros. Charles and Alfred will have charge of the work.
—We would be greatly obliged to our subscribers if they would send us the names and addresses of all who have ever attended class at Notre Dame. Don’t wait for some one else to do it, but please attend to it yourself.
—Mr. Clarence Faxon is agent here for the sale of The Little Shamrock, published this day at Logansport, Ind., by
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Mr. McSheehy. Every one should purchase a copy as a memorial of St. Patrick’s Day. The price is only five cents a copy.
—The Vocal Class in the Minim Department assemble regularly twice a week for practice, and second cheerfully the zealous efforts of Bro. Leopold and Bro. Albert for their improvement in this agreeable and useful branch of their education. ■
—The Columbians had the programmes of their Entertainment for the 16th inst. printed on green paper. They were real pretty, got up in fine style from a typographical point of view. The Columbians never do anything by halves, but do things in a grand style.
—The sixth regular meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception took place on the 11th inst. The Secretary and Treasurer handed in their reports. Mr. E. Moran was then elected a member of the Association. The exercises were closed by a few remarks from the Director, Mr. T. D. Collins, C. S. C.
—The music at the Columbians’ Entertainment was of the kind and quality which has always distinguished the Exhibitions at Notre Dame, and the leader is to be complimented on the excellent state in which the Orchestra now is. May the members increase in their power and mastery over their instruments with each public appearance!
—The ceremonies of Holy Week, shortly approaching, are the grandest and most solemn of the year. As they are here carried out fully, they- will be very imposing. The first Lamentations each evening on which the Tenebrw is sung will be harmonized as well as the Miserere. The singers have begun their rehearsals in order that everything may be well rendered.
—We noticed a table in the Junior refectory last week that seemed to be supplied with all the luxuries and delicacies of the season. We could not imagine what it meant, until some one whispered: “Jimmie got a box.” “ Jimmie ” is one of those good-natured fellows—in fact we think a little too much so; he will always share whatever he has with a chum or companion.
—The Notre Dame (Ind.) Scholastic is one of the best college papers published in the country. It comes to our desk weekly, and we invariably find it full of choice literary contributions and interesting local news. No old student of Notre Dame, or no parent who has children there should be without it. In typography and general neatness it compares favorably with the leading Eastern magazines.—Pomeroy's Democrat.
—The 25th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society was held on March 8th. The minutes were read and approved of. Declamations were given by G. Donnelly, L. Sievers, F. Rheinboldt, E. Pennington, F. Lang, K. Scanlan, A. Congar, W. Nicholas, B. Keenan, W. Taulby, J. Reynolds, F. Phelan, J. Duffield, 0. Peltier, J. English, F. Pleins, and T. Wagner; and selections were read by L. Frazee, E. Anderson, and W. Jones. Messrs. A. Sievers and I. Rose were admitted to membership.
—The 25th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association took place on the 10th inst. Declamations were delivered by Messrs. C. Clarke, J. Hagerty, C. Faxon, J. Mosal, W. Hake, C. Hagan, R. Golsen, G. Sugg, F. Cavanaugh, A. Widdecombe, J. Burger, O. Lindberg, R. Mayer, J. Healy, M. B. Kauffman. Essays were read by J. Healy, C. Clarke, and J. Burger. Mr. S. D. Ryan, the Chronicler, gave an historical account of the States of Illinois, Iowa, and Wisconsin. The above, with the weekly reports of the Society, formed the chief exercises of the evening.
—On the evening of the 5th, Mr. Kirsch, C. S. C., delivered an interesting and instructive lecture before the Scientific Association on the study of Biology. The lecturer gave the history of the term Biology, stating that its origin was due to the necessary growth of Natural History, and defined it as the history of living beings, whether plants or animals, including also the history of human life. He showed why biology should be studied: 1st, because of its intrinsic utility; 2dly, because of an indirect command of God, who. having finished man, told him to rule over the inferior animal creation. Man must first know himself,
that he may be enabled to use all his faculties to the best advantage; and secondly, in order to rule the animal creation, he must know something about it. His only way, then, is to become acquainted with the animal functions by the study of biology. Since biology is a physical science, the method of study must be analagous to that followed in the physical sciences. A man who wishes to become a chemist not only reads books on the subject, but goes to the laboratory and there makes the fundamental experiments for himself. Biology must be studied in a similar way. But some may say: It is impossible to examine all the different specimens of animal and plant life. We can examine at least one of every group in botany—a ranunculus or buttercup, an anemone or wind-flower, a rose, some of the composite family, etc. In zoology we can examine specimens found in the museum, or the common animals, by dissection,—a polyp, a star fish, a sea-urchin, corals, snails, etc. By this means we form a clear and distinct conception by means of sense-images, of each of the distinguishing modifications of the animal and vegetable kingdom. The museum also affords the biologist a good field for study. And when and where can biological study be best pursued ? The lecturer could not see why it should not form a feature of ordinary school training, if the instructions were adapted to the capacity of the youthful mind. It would be absurd to place in the hands of a student a book on any of the sciences in which definitionsand descriptions are written in scientific language. The main point is to form in the minds of the young an idea of what animal and vegetable life really are. A noted scientist of Europe seems to think that dissections would do this, but objects that it is impracticable. The young beginner should study only the broader facts of vegetable and human physiology. In colleges, students should have some practice in dissection, that they may become acquainted with the distinguishing modifications in the animal form, and the same with regard to plants. In studying this science we should begin by examining the lowest form of life, and not, as Huxley recommends, begin with the most complex form of lifj—man. The lecture was ably diversified and illustrated throughout with interesting facts. At its conclusion a vote of thanks was returned to Mr. Kirsch.	.
Roll of Honor.
[In the following list are the names of those students who durinn the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
# SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. Arnold, A. Baca, J.- Burke, P. Cooney, R. Calkins, J. Coleman,’ VV. Dodge; E~Davenport^ VV. Dechant, L. Evers, J. Fitz-gerald^TTGarf ity7~T. G afso, P. Hagan, J. Johnson, J. KrostTJ. Kinney, J. Kuebel, F. Keller. wTKeilv. J. Lambin. J. Larkin, G. tnrRtbrf, H. Maguire, P. J. Mattimore, P. VV. Mattimore, T. MWhfffi, J. McEniry, Vy.^MiJJorrisk, Carl Otto. P^Q’Learv. C. O’Donald, L. Proudhomme, J..Patterson, T. Quinn, A Skahill, G. Saylor, F. Schlink. J. Silvefthorn, G. Saxinger; P. Tumble, VV. "1'nrnburi, FWandervannet, J. Vanderhoof.
~	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. Bergck, W. Brady, A J. Burger,* * T. Barry, F. Carroll, G. Cassidy, H. Canoll, C. Colwell, F. Ewing, J. English, P. Frane, R. French, VV. Hake, P. Gibbons, F. Lang, J. Lumley, F. McGrath, R. Mayer, J. Me Tague, T. Nelson, F. Pleins, E. Poor, J. Rothert, F. Rheinboldt, I. Rose, P. Schnurrer, K. Scanlan, A. Sievers, J. Stewart, J. Sill, C. Taylor, C. Van Mourick, G. Ittenbach.
* A. J. Burger was omitted through mistake last week.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
G. Lowrey, R Pleins, VV. Coolbaugh, J. Seeger, W. McDevitt, G. Rhodius, P. Heron, E. Carqueville, G. Hadden, G. Lambin, A. Coughlin, A. Sehnert, H. Riopelle, A. Rheinboldt, C. Kauffman, F. Carqueville, VV. Carqueville, J. Inderrieden, Jos. Inder-rieden, W. Coughlin, H. Kitz, J. Scanlan.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
FOR THE MONTH ENDING MARCH 15.
collegiate course.
Seniors—J. G. Ewing, C. Otto, N. J. Mooney.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Juniors—J. Coleman, J. McHugh.	•
Sophomores —A. Hertzog, P. Skahill, J. McEniry, W. Deehant.
Freshman—H. Maguire, L. Evers, J. P. Quinn, P. Cooney, F. Maas, F. Hastings, J. C. O’Rourke, A Burger, T. McGrath.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES.
German—P. Sehnurrer, F. Vandervannet; French—G. Saxin-ger ; Christian Doctrine—W. Hake, F. Carroll, F. Ewing, F. McGrath, W. Ohlman, J. English, W. Taulby, P. Gibbons, F. Cavanaugh, F. Rheinboldt, A. Bergck, O. Lindberg, G. Itten-bach, T. Wagner, J. Bell, A Burger.

—After the distribution of good notes on Sunday evening, Misses Faxon and Beall read a charming number of “Rosa Mystica.” The new frontispiece, an exquisite moss-rose, was much admired, and the articles, so varied and original, were listened to with much satisfaction At the close of the reading, Very Rev. Father General informed the young ladies that according to custom he would present to one pupil from each department a Latere Rose, said pupil to be chosen by lot from among those who had for the present scholastic year received par excdlent notes. The following pupils drew lots: Senior Department— Misses M. Faxon, L. Ritchie, B. Spencer, S. Moran, M. and E. Thompson, M. Halligan, M. O’Mahony, M. Brady, J. Nunning, M. Cravens, A. Walsh, L. Johnson, L. Weber. Junior Department—C. Correll, A. Kirchner, A. Morgan, M. Ewing. Minim Department—M. Lambin, E. Mulligan, L. Cox, F. Fitz, L. Ellis, M. Cox, A. Hackett, L. Vannamee, A. Williams, J. Butts,- A. Getty and E. Wootten. The lucky ones were as follows: Senior Department—Miss Eugene Thompson, of Chicago, Ill.; Junior Department— Miss Alice Morgan, of Centralia, Ill.; Minim Department —Little Ella Wootten, of Memphis, Tenn. The applause that followed the presentation of the Rose was enthusiastic, and all were delighted with the ceremony. Many other young ladies of the Senior department had received par excellent notes, but this being their first year at St. Mary’s, they were not admitted to compete with those who have been here for at least two scholastic years.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses L. Ritchie, A. Walsh, A. O’Connor, M. Julius, M. Cravens, M. Faxon, M. Brady, L. Johnson, J. Bennett, J. Nunning, L. Beall, A. Byrne, B. Spencer, J. Cooney, A. Henneberry, A. Reising, H. Russell, J. Cronin, H. Hawkins, E. and. M. Thompson, E. Rodinberger, S. Moran, M. O’Mahoney, M. Carroll, L. Weber, G. Kelly, C. Silverthorne, A. Woodin, E. Pleins, D. Cavenor, E. Kirchner, K. Kelly, G. Breeze, M. Dunn, L. Tighe, M. Pomeroy, G. Conklin, M. Smalley, S. Cash, M. Halligan, K. Martin, K. Gibbons, I. Cooke, L. Brownbridge, E. Black, E. Wright, S. Rheinboldt, 100 par excellence. Misses M. Walsh, E. O’Neil, M. O’Connor, L. Kelly, M. Spier, C. Boyce, A. Cullen, E. Lange, E. O’Connor, B. Wilson, E. Forrey, A. Cavenor, B. Siler, E. McGrath, E. Davenport, J. Bergert, M. Coughlin, H. O’Meara, M. Usselman, M. Hungerford, J. Burgie, N. Johnson, L. Wier.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A Kirchner, A Morgan, and D. Gordon, 100 par excellence. Misses M. Ewing, C. Correll, L. Walsh, L. Chilton, A. McGrath, J. Kingsbury, M. Mulligan, M. Robertson, M. Davis, A Peak, I. Mann”and A Ewing.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Mulligan, M. Lambin, L. Cox, F. Fitz, L. Ellis, M. Cox, N. Hackett, L. Vannamee, A Williams, J. Butts, A Getty and E. Wootten.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ENGLISH STUDIES.
Graduating Class.—Misses L. Ritchie, A. Walsh, A. O’Connor, M. Julius, M. Cravens, M. Faxon, M. Brady, L. Johnson, L. Beall, J. Bennett.
1st Sr. Class.—Misses A. Byrne, M. Walsh, H. Julius, P. Gaynor, E. O’Neill, A. Harris, M. O’Connor, L. Kelly, J. Cooney, A. Henneberry, M. Spier, A. Reising.
2d Sr. Class —Misses H. Russell, C. Morgan, C. Boyce, H. Hawkins, A Cullen, E. Lange, H. Dryfoos, E. Thompson, E. Rodinberger, S. Moran, M. O’Mahoney, M. Carroll, B. Wilson.
3d Sr. Glass.—Misses L. Weber, G. Kelly, M. Schultheis, C. Silverthorn, E. Forrey, E. Pleins, D. Cavenor, A. Cavenor, E. Kirchner, K. Kelly, G. Breeze, B. Siler, E. McGrath, M. Dunn.
1st Prep. Class.—Misses L. Tisrhe, A. Koch, M.Pomeroy, K. Burgie, J. Burgert, G. Conklin, E. Davenport, M. Smalley, S. Cash, M. Halligan, K. Martin.
2d Pbep. Class.—Misses M. Usselman, M. Hungerford, I. Cook, J. Burgie, N. Johnson, L. Brownbridge.
3d. Prep. Class.—L. Weier, E. Wright.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
2d Sr. Class—M. Ewing.
1st Prep. Class.—Misses A. Ewing, A Morgan, A|Kirchner, D. Gordon, L. Walsh and M. Mulligan.
2d Prep. Class—E. Mulligan, A. McGrath, C. Correll and L. Chilton.
Jr. Prep. Class—M. Lambin, L. Cox, F. Fitz, M. Robertson and J. Kingsbury.
1st Jr. Class—L. Ellis, M. Cox, N. Hackett, L. Vannamee.
2d Jr. Class—A. Williams and A. Getty.
PLAIN SEWING.
Misses L. Ritchie, E. O’Connor, M. Faxon, M. Brady, L. Johnson, L. Beall, J. Nunning. L. O’Niel, L. Kelly, J. Cronin, H. Dryfoos, N. O’Mahony, L. Rodinberger, B. Wilson, M. Carroll, L. Weber, G. Kelly, M. Coughlin, A. Woodin, L. Pleins, A. Cavenor, K. Kelly, L. Tighe, I. Cook, K. J. Burgie, J. Burgie, G. Conklin, S. Cash, K. Martin, M. Usselman, M. Halligan, M. Hungerford, L. Wire."
—When one has not worked in one’s youth, one knows nothing, is nothing,and can do nothing.—Lacordaire.
—Do not think to have done all because you have finished successfully the course of your first studies; a greater work ought to succeed them, and a longer Career opens itself before you. All that you have done till now is still only the first step or preparation to raise you to studies of a superior order.—D'Aguesseau.
—The first material ever used for transmitting writing to posterity was stone. The first pages of the “History of Oriental Nations” were written on the walls of their temples; the Scandinavians inscribed their records in Runic characters on the rocks of ■ Sweden and Norway. The Tables of the Law, which Moses broke to pieces at the foot of Mount Sinai, were stone, and the Chaldeans marked their first astronomical observations on brick. The stone was succeeded by metals. Aaron was commanded to wear a plate of pure gold, with the words, “Holiness to the Lord ” engraved upon it; this plate to be attached to his mitre with a blue lace (Exodus, xxviii, 36, 38.) The Roman Laws of the Twelve Tables were engraved on bronze. The works of Hesiod were written on leaden plates and preserved by the Boeotians in the Temple of the Muses. Such collections of laminae used to be put away in boxes, and could not, therefore, be properly called volumes; but when silk and linen stuffs, skins, leaves and the bark of trees, began to be used for writing, a sort of book-binding began, the Latin word liber, a book, was borrowed from liber, the inward rind of a tree. Papyrus was particularly prized. Its stem was cut into pieces of a given length; its pellicles were then skilfuly peeled off and stretched out on wooden boards, where they were duly scoured and polished; other pellicles were glued upon these, and so on, until the requisite thickness was attained. The leaves so preserved were then put under a press, dried, beaten with a mallet, and polished for use. This method was in use at the time the Book of Job was written. The Septuagint version of the Old Testament was written on papyrus, and made into a book called biblos by the Greeks, whence our word “ Bible” Parchment owes its name to Pergama, the kings of which city, Attains and Eumenes, caused skins to be prepared smooth on both sides for writing purposes, the king of Egypt. Ptolemy Euergetes, having, under the severest penalties, forbidden the exportation of papyrus, in order to prevent his rivals from Pergama from founding a library equal to that of Alexandria.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
445
Attorneys at Law.
SPEER & MITCHELL TN. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
T TJCIUS Gr. TONG, [of’65] Attorney and Counsellor I J at Law, and Beal Estate Agent, Boom No. 2 Arnold’s Block, South Bend, Ind.
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FANNING & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’74], Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph Sts., Chicago, Ill.
JOHN E. McIIUGH [of ’72], Attorney at Law. Office, 65 and 67 Columbia St, Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE <fc DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney a* Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
MCBRIDE «fc MIEEARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of tne IT. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
WILLIA M J. CE A BEE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JA.NXES 2V. O’REILEY-of ’69—Attorney at Law, 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOII1V T>. McCORMICK-flf ’73-Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Uhio.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St.; Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
BTHUB J. STACE [of’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Weekly Newspapers.
THE CATHOEICCOLUMBIAN.pub ished weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited.	D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
THE A. V E MARIA, a Catholic journa1 devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturdav at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, §2.50.
TETE YOENG FOLKS’ FRIEND, published monthly at Loogootee, Ind. 50 cts. per year. Subscriptions solicited from the friends and students of Notre Dame.
Arthur C. O’Brian, of ’76.
Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodium, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
rpHE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich- ± igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
MONALD,
THE FHOTOG-RAPHER,
Is still at his
The Scholastic Almanac
FOR 1877.
Price 35 cts., postpaid.
Orders should be sent to
J. A. LYONS,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday Nov. 26,1876, trains will leave South Bend as follows:	~
'	GOING EAST.
3 35 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 10.
IO 07 am, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 4 55pm; Cleveland 9 45.
1X 59 a m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 10 p m; Cleveland 9 45 p m; Buffalo 4 00 a m.
9	1 O p m, Atlantic Express, over Air Ltne. Arrives at Toledo 2 40 a m; Cleveland, 7 (5am; Buffalo, 1 10 p m.
4	40 p m, Way Freight.	.
GOING WEST.
3 45 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 55 p m,Chicago 6 30 am.	.
5	38 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 7; Chicago 9 a m
405 p m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50; Chicago, 8 20 p m.
8	OO a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 a m; Chicago 11 30 a.m.
8	30 a m, Way Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West, Div, Chicago. ~
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Snpt.
Thomas M. McSheehy’s
“Little Shamrock,”
FOR ST. PATRICK’S DAY.
Owing to the success attending the first issue of the Little Shamrock, I have determined to issue on St. Patricks Day, 1877, a second, number. It will be a large six-column quarto paper (the size of the Chicago Timex). The issue will be 25,000, and will be printed in green, the national color of Ireland.
It will be edited and its columns controlled by one of America’s most brilliant female journalists (a lady resident of Chicago, but whose name I reserve) and will contain contributions from the best journalistic talent of the country and the most distinguished Irish patriots, and will be Illustrated with
ENGRAVINGS
made especially for it.
It will contain such articles as will call to the memory of Erin’s exiled children their dear Emerald Isle, and cause them to love the country of their adoption with a deeper and more abiding love.
It will be sold in all the large cities of the United States, and on all trains leaving Chicago, Cincinnati, Indianapolis and St. Louis on the morning of St. Patrick’s Day.
As an advertising medium it will furnish unexampled facilities. It is not a money-making scheme, and the price of advertising has been put at the lowest figures simply to cover the actual cost. .
This is the only enterprise of the kind ever undertaken in this country, and will be of peculiar interest to thousands of its citizens.
Arrangements will be made by which a sufficient number of these papers will be at the College and Academy on St. Patrick’s Day, affording students an opportunity to procure copies of this novel paper for themselves and friends.
THOMAS M. McSHEEHY,
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET. P. O. Box -486, - - Logansport, Indiana.
446	THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
,LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Free-• port, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
This is the ONLY LINE running these cars between Chicago and St. Paul and Minneapolis, Chicago and Milwaukee, Chicago and Winona, or Chicago and Green Bay.
Close connections are made at Chicago with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, Baltimore & Ohio, Pittsburgh, Ft. Wayne & Chicago, Kankakee Line and Pan Handle Routes, for all points EAST and SOUTH-EAST, and with the Chicago and Alton and Illinois Central for all points SOUTH.
Close connections are also made with the Union Pacific R. R. at Omaha for all far West points.
Close connections made at junction points with trains of aU cross points.
Tickets overthis route are sold by all Coupon Ticket Agents in the United States and Canadas.
Bemember. you ask for your Tickets via the Chicago & North-Western Railwav, and take none other.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No: 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under.Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES,
Union Dep: *, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, H . and Louisiana, Mo.....4	00	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Lou’s Ex. via Main Line.8 05 pm 9 30 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line...........................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.....................4	00	pm	9	30	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.......7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express...8 05 pm 9 30 am Streator, Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 4 00 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation.....................9	20	am	4	30	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable propert y consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two story frame h ouse, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage ehed, coal- house, young trees,grapes, shrubbery, etc., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TjABZILE.
DEC. 10,1876.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
		No.i, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
	Pittsburgh,	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	'.	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive	11.30 P.M. 12.40 a.m. 3 05 “ 447 “ 6.50 “ 7.30 “	9.00 A.M. 10.15 “ 1250 P.M. 232 “ 440 “ 515 “	2.00 P.M. 3.14 “ 555 “ 7.42 “ 955 “ 1030 “	6 00 A.M. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12 55 p.m. 311 “ 3.50 “
	Crestline,	Leave Forest,		7.50 a.m. 925 “ 10.45 “ 1.20 p.m. 345 “ 7.20 “	5 40 p.m. 7 40 “ 9.35 “ 12.10 a.m. 3 20 “ 7.20 “	10.35 p.m. 11.53 “ 1 05 A _M.		
	Lima,...-					
	Ft.Wayne,	.'				325 “ 5.49 “ 9.20 “	
	Plymouth,					
	Chicago,	Arrive				
		>ING EAST.			
		ho. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
	Chicago,	Leave Plymouth,		10 40 p.m. 2.40 a.m. 6 55 “ 8 55 “ 1010 “ 11.45 “	8.20 A.M. 11.25 “ 210 p.m. 405 “ 520 “ 6.55 “	5.35 p.m. 9.00 “ 11.45 “ 1.39 A.M.	•	
	Ft. Wayne,					
	Lima,						
	Forest,				2 50 “ 4.20 “	
	Crestline,	Arrive					
	Crestline,........Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville,	 Alliance,	 Rochester,		 Pittsburgh,	Arrive	12.05 P.M. 12.35 “ 2.32 “ 4.10 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.44 “ .9.38 “ 11.15 “ 1.20 A.M. 230 “	4 30 a.m. 5.00 “ 6.58 “ 8.55 “ 11.06 “ 12.15 p.m.	6.05 a.m 6 50 “ 9.15 “ 1120 “ 2.00 p.m. 3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City. Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. E. MTEES, G. P. & I. A,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
447
jansen, mcclurg & co., Importers and Dealers in Fine Books and Stationery, 117 AND 119 STATE STREET, OHIOAGO, ILT-iIJSTOIS.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-November 21, 1875.
	♦Mail.	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Nigh Express
Lv. Chicago						
“ Mich.~City..	7 32 “	11 00 “	6 30 “	7 40 “	11 15 “
“ Niles ..	9 02 “	12 09 p.m	8 20 “	8 55 “	12 35 “
“ Jackson. ..	2 08 p.m	3 55 “	Express.	12 40 a m	4 52 •*
Ar. Detroit .. ..	5 45 “	t- 25 “	10 15 “	3 30 “	8 00 a m
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	10 05 a m	4 00 p-m	5 40 p.m	9 50 pm
“ Jackson		0 40 “	12 32 p.m	7 15 “	9 25 “	12 42 a.m
“ Niles		3 45 p,m	4 23 “	6 10 a.m	2 30 a.m	4 30 “
“ Mich. City..	5 10 “	5 35 “	7 50 “	4 05 “	5 50 “
Ar. Chicago. .	7 30 “	8 00 “	10 20 “	6 30 “	8 00 “
zy’A-Tkyozec shiokey,
PROPRIETOR OP THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE !
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maty's, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
t*. S HICKEY.
DJiles and Sou.til Bend Division.
GOING NORTH.
Lv. South Bend—8 15 a.m. 7 15 p m. §9 06 a.m. §7 00 p.m
“ Notre Dame—8 22 “	7 23 “	9 07 “	7 07 “
Ar. Niles—	9 00 “	8 <M» “	9 40 “	7 40 “
GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles—	6 30 a.m. 4 20 p.m. §8 00 a.m. §5 00 p.m
“ Notre Dame—7 07 “	4 56 “	8 32 “	5 32 “
Ar. South Bend—7 15 “	5 05 “	8 10 “	5 40 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily.	^Saturday and Sunday excepted
§Sunnay only.
G. L. Elliott,	Wm. B. Strong,
Agent, South Bend,	Gen’l Snp’t, Chicago
Henby C. Wentworth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dame.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
ZF1- ZMZZZETYIEZR/, Agent
FOR
The Naturalists’ Agencr has been established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any Amer ican for “Collections of Minerals.”
My Mineralogical Catalogue of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about §900, before a copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an ex cellent check list containing the names of all the species and the more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The speces number indicates -the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, hardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
The large increase of my business has compelled me to rent the store No. 3727, and use it emirelv for Birds, Mammals, Shells, Plants, Books. Fossils, Mound Builders’ Relics and other objects of Natural History. I have secured the services of one of the best taxidermists in the country, and can do the best custom work.
Over 38 tons, and nearly §35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. §19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over §1.500 and cash receipts over §1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections ate labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the §5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
DOMESTIC AND
Fine Havana Cigars.
101 MAIN ST., SOUTH BEND, IND.
Branch of SHIRE'S, 184 E. Madison Street, Chicago.
s 30-ly
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Fotmded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
Number of Specimens
25	50	100
in box in box in box
100
200
300
Crystals and fragments.....	§ 50 §1 §1 50 | § 1
Students’ size, larger.....	1 50	3	6 I 5
Amateur's size, 2% in. x 1%.................... I	10
High School or Acad. size,2}Zx3J4 in s-helf specimens | 25
College size, 3)4x6 in., shelf specimens ...... |	500
§ 2
10
25
50
100
$ 3
25
50
100 3'0
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. Situated near the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, and the Peninsular Railroads, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
TERMS.
Matriculation Fee............................;..
Board, Tuition (Languages, Linear Drawing and Vocal
Music included), Bed and Bedding, Washing and a Mending of Linens, per Session of five months.... Instrumental Music................ Use of Piano...................... Use of Violin....................................
Telegraphy.......:.............."................
-er—Zi t — J General Class Principles........... Vocal Lessons, j Vocal Culture...*............ .
Elocution—Special Course.........................
Use of Library (per session)..................... Drawing—Landscape and Artistic................... Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus......
(Classical Course.................
Graduation Fee,-J Scientific Course.............. (Commercial Course...............................
Students who spend Summer vacation at the University are charged extra...........................
• Doctors’ Fees and Medicines at Physician’s charges.
Students received at any time, their Session beginning with date of entrance.
PAYMENTS TO BE MADE INVARIABLY IN ADVANCE.
Class-Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices. •
The first session begins on the first Tuesday of September the second on the first of February.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, addrese
Rev. P. J. Golovin, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
Notbe Dame, Ind.
§5 oo
150 oo 12 50
10 00 2 50
10 00 10 00
15 00 5 00
1 00
15 00 5 00
10 00 10 00
5 00
40 00
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Scien ce Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of A'atural^Sci-ences and of the American Museum gf Natural' History,,Central Park, New York.
448
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
THE “WESTERN CITIZEN.”
The Western Citizen, the only Journal published in Indiana in the interests of the Irish race, "will be furnished at
One Tear -	-	-	-	$1 50
Six Months -	-	-	-	90
Three months -	-	-	50
Sample Copies sent on application.
Address,
“WESTERN CITIZEN,”
INDIANAPOLIS, IND.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, Comer Van Buren ana Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m.	3 45 p.m.
Peru accommodation.............. 5 00 p.m.	9 35 a.m.
Night Express...................10 00 p.m. 6 50 a.m.
A M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	' General Superintendent.
1 St Harm's Jicadcmy.
(One Mile West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED BT THE SISTERS OF HOLT CROSS.
This Institution, situated on the beautiful and picturesque banks of the St. Joseph River, is everything that could be desired as a locality for a female academy. All the branches of a solid and complete education are taught here. Masic, both vocal and instrumental, and the modern languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction.
Particular attention is paid to the religious instruction of Catholic pupils. Pupils of all denominations are received, and for the sake of order required to attend the public religious exercises with the members of the Institution.
The buildings are spacious and commodious, suited to the educational requirem- nts of the day, and furnished with all modem improvements Every portion of the building is heated by steam, and hot and cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartments.
The grounds are very extensive, beau'ifully adorned, and situated in that charming seclusion which is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power.
The proximity of the two institutions to each other is a great convenience to parents having children at both, when they visit their sons and daughters.
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the Twentieth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy or the year 1874-75, oraddress
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Ind..
OUR COUNTRY!
JAMES BONNEY
THE PHOTOG-RAPHER Comer Michigan ancL Washington Sts., SOUTH EEKD, T2STZDT A.3ST A_.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
.A. CATHOLIC JOTTHNAL
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
APPROVED BY HIS HOLINESS PIUS IX., AM MANY EMINENT PRELATES
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may be mentioned.
Aubrey be Vere,	Grace Ramsay,
Henbi Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author of “ Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
TEHMS: One Year.......................................§	2 50
Five Years......................................10	00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of $2 each).. .20 00 A specimen copy sent free to any address on application. Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
REV. EDITOR OF THE “AVE MARIA,” Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company, 115 & 121 Nassau St., New York.
What WiH Become of It ?
Is a question now agitating the public mind.
' The grave issues before Congress; the final settlement of the late Presidential election; the incoming Congress; the new President; the Policy of the next Administration; and future welfare of the country and people, are matteis of great interest to each and every individual. Such a crisis has not been presented since the Declaration of Independence.
A Truthful History of events, and doings of Congress, will be given with impartiality and fairness in the
CINCINNATI ENQUIRER,
a public-spirited paper echoing the wishes of the people, advocating submission to the Laws, good Government, and the Rights of the People to be heard upon all matters that pertain to the country’s welfare.
The Tricky Politicians, always ready to organize trouble, but who never participate in danger, will be shown up in their true characters. By subscribing for the Enquirer, you will get a faithful record of events as they transpire, without Party Coloring and unbiased by Party feelings, as the true merit in a newspaper is its ability and willingness to give the
NEWS AS IT COMES
and not as it is prepared by party demagogues to mislead the people. Specimen copies free.
TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
Single Copy, one year Five Copies	“
Ten “ .	“
Twenty “	“
FOK WEEKLY.
.........$1	75 each...........
..........1	60 “ ..............
..........1	50 “ ..............
FOK DAILY.
Without Sunday Issue.
By Mail, one year.....$12	00
Six Months............. 6	00
Three Months........	3	25
One Month...........1	25
$2 00
8 75
16 00
30 00
With Sunday Issue.
By Mail, one year....$14 00
Six Months........... 7 00
Three Months........ 8	50
One Month........... 1	50
Most liberal terms to club agents. Send for specimen copies and agents’ outfit.
Agents wanted at every post-office.
Address all letters to
FABA3T & McLEAN, Publishers,
CINCINNATI, OHIO.
dec23-10t	?