The Scholastic.
*	pEYOTED TO	THE JnTEI^ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS.	■ "" ■
Volume VII.	NOTRE	DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 13, 1874.	Number 42.
■ On Bells.
THEIR ORIGIN AND HISTORY.
From remote antiquity, cymbals and hand-bells were used in religious ceremonies. In Egypt it is certain that the feast of Osiris was announced by the ringing of bells. In the time of Moses, Aaron and other high-priests were ordered to wear small bells attached to their garments or vestments. The priests of Cybele used them in their rites. The Greeks employed them in their camps and garrisons, and the old Romans announced the opening of the baths and of business by the ringing of bells.
Their first introduction into Christian churches is usually ascribed to Pauhnus, Bishop of Nola, in Campania A. D. 400; but there is no evidence of their use till a cen-.tury later. They were introduced into France about the year 550; and Benedict, Abbot of Wearmouth, in England, brought one from Italy for his church in 680. Pope Sa-binian, in 600, ordered that every hour should be announced by sound of bell, that people might be warned of the approach of the hours of devotion. Bells came into use in the East in the 9th century, and in Switzerland and Germany in the 11th. Several specimens—some of them, it xs believed, as old as the 6th century—are still preserved in Ireland, Scotland and Wales. They are made of thin plates of hammered iron, bent into a four-sided form, fastened with rivets and brazed. Perhaps the most remarkable is that which is said to have belonged to St. Patrick, and known as “ St. Patrick's Bell." It is six inches high, five inches broad, and four inches deep, and is kept in a case or shrine of brass enriched with gems and gold and silver filigree, made, as is shown by an Irish inscription, between the years 1091 and 1105. The bell itself is mentioned in the annals of Ulster as early as 552. This valuable relic of antiquity is preserved in the city of Belfast. The four-sided bell of St. Gall, an Irish missionary, is preserved in the monastery of that name in Switzerland where St. Gall died in the year 646.
It will be seen from the above description that the cowbells now in use are an exact pattern of the first and most ancient bells ever used; from engravings of these old bells now before the writer, a person would suppose that they were taken to represent the bells we hear tinkling at the necks of our cows and sheep when roaming through the woods; and it will require but a small stretch of fancy to suppose that we are listening to the sound of what was formerly thought to be a fine bell, calling our forefathers to prayer.
Church bells were for a long time comparatively-small; a cast bell, which a king of France presented to the church of Orleans in the eleventh century, and which weighed only 2,600 pounds, was the wonder of its age. In the thirteenth century much larger bells began to be cast.
The bell “ Jacquiline," of Paris, cast in 1300, weighed 15,000 pounds; another bell, cast in 1472, weighed 25,000 pounds. The famous bell of Rouen, cast in 1501, weighed 36,364 pounds; those of Olmutz and Vienna weighed nearly 18 tons. The first bell cast for the new Parliament houses in London, but afterwards cracked, weighed 14 tons; that in the Roman Catholic Cathedral in Montreal, Canada, cast in London in 1847,13% tons; “ Great Peter,” in York Minster, cast in 1345,10% tons; the great bell in St. Paul’s Church, London, 5% tons; and “ Big Tom,1’ at Lin-coin, 5% tons, and, if inverted, would hold 4,024 gallons. The Bell Dunstan, at Canterbury Cathedral, weighs 7,000 pounds; the great bell at Exeter Cathedral weighs 12,500 pounds; the tenor bell at St Mary-le-Bow, in London, weighs 5,300 pounds. The well-known title of “cockney,” in London, is meant to apply to all those who are born .within hearing of the sound of “ Bow Bells.” The largest bell on the Continent of America is at Montreal, Canada, as given above; and the largest in the United Statesis at the University of Notre Dame, Indiana. Thia fine bell was cast at Le Mans, in nearly, the centre of France, in 1866. Its weight as it now hangs is 16,650 pounds; its height and its diameter, seven feet; its circumference is 22 feet, and its total cost as it hangs was $7,889.67—not including the great frame on which it rests, which cost $500. It has been heard at a distance of 20 miles, although only at an elevation of about 30 feet at present; by next year it will be elevated into the fine tower of the new Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, now in a forward state of construction. The bell will then be 70 feet above the ground, when it will be heard to much greater advantage. This bell swings upon its axis so smoothly that it causes scarcely any tremor in the frame, .which is constructed of 12-inch oak timbers. ' :	:
The tolling of the “passing led" was to give notice.tb all people within its sound that a soul was about passing to its last judgment, and required that all who heard.it might offer up their prayers for the departing spirit; The tolling of the dead-Ml was to give notice that a soul had departed to its final account, and requesting prayers for its final repose. “ The curfew hell" was an institution introduced into England for political purposes, by William.the Conqueror, and only strictly observed till the end of thereign of William Rufus, his son and successor. All church bells were ordered to be rung at eight o’clock in the night, the object being to warn every person to extinguish all lights and fires at that hour and go to bed. It was in fact martial law, and was intended to keep the English Saxons in greater subjection. The English are very fond of keeping up old customs, and the ringing of the church bell at 8 o’clock every night by the sexton is still practiced in may parts of England and Scotland. This custom was never established in Ireland.
The tocsin bell is rung in times of war, revolution, fire,
338
THE SCHOLASTIC.
or other alarm. At this time the hells are rung in a quick, ] monotonous manner, and in many instances have struck 1 terror into the hearts of the inhabitants of a city.	<
In all that relates to bell-playing, the people of the 1 Netherlands, (the Dutch and Belgians) are the most s successful. Tn some of the church towers of that country ] the striking, chiming and playing on bells is incessant. -The tinkling called chimes usually accompanies the strik- i ing of .the hours, half-hours, and quarters; while the play- 1 ' ing of tunes comes on as a special divertisement. In some instances these tune-playing bells are driven by clockwork, bn the principle of a barrel-organ or cylinder oh which are movable keys, which can be set to any piece of music; in others they are played on by keys, by a musician. The French give the name of carillons to the tunes played on bells, but the English give the name of carillons to the bells on which the music is played.
The tower of Les Halles, a large building in Burges, is allowed to contain the finest carillons in Europe. There is also a fine set of bells of this kind in the Church of St. Giles, in the city of Edinburg, Scotland; on these, tunes are played for an hour every day at certain seasons, by a person paid for that purpose. Many of the church towers inLondon and other cities in England are provided with ■chimes of bells, generally called joy-bells; these are rung in a quick, animated manner, on stated occasions, and at times of public rejoicing—or, as the old proverb says,
“ When all goes merry as a marriage bell.”
■These bells are rung by hand, by a company of men who are well trained to the task, and who ring for any private parties who will pay them. There are three such sets of bells in Dublin, in St. Patrick’s and Christ Church ■Cathedrals and in St. Werber’s Church.
• The finest chime in America is in St. Joseph’s Cathedral, Buffalo, N. Y.; it consists of 40 bells, rung by clockwork; they were exhibited at the great Exposition in Paris, and ’.received a gold medal. They were lately set up in that fins church. From 1856 until the erection of the chime in Buffalo, the chime of 22 bells in the tower of the church at Notre Dame, Indiana, ranging from 1400 to 14 pounds, also rung by clockwork, were the finest in America. The orna-. mentation on these bells is very elaborate, and finely exe-,cuted. From neglect, or some other reason, the sweet music of these bells has not been heard for a long time-It was most pleasing on a summer evening to listen to the melody of some holy song, such as the “Are, Maris Stella” ■ floating over the surface of the two beautiful lakes that :iest almost beneath the walls of the church, the sound -thence taken up in echoes by the forests fringing their ■ borders, and carried for miles in waves of harmony, being -distinctly heard, at that time, passing over the streets of the city of South Bend. Their position in the tower of the new church will be 100 feet above the ground surface. .It is expected that the interior of the new Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart when finished will present the grandest appearance of any church in the West; its interior length, when completed, according to the present •designs, will be 261 feet.
A curious event is recorded in history of the effect produced by the ringing of bells. It may cause a smile in these days, but at the time it happened it was a very serious matter. Clotaire H, king of France, laid siege to the city of Sens in the year 610, when, on a Sunday morning, the bells in the tower of St. Stephen’s Church suddenly began to
ring. Such a sound the besieging army never heard before; they took it to be some supernatural manifestation in favor of the garrison, and being seized with a sudden panic they fled from their camp in dismay, which was immediately seized by the citizens, who thanked Heaven for their unexpected victory.
There is a chime of bells in the Church of Shandon, a town situated on the River Lee, in the County of Cork, Ireland, that has received a world-wide fame from a poem written on them by Father Francis Mahony, who wrote over the nom de plume of “ Father Prout.” If the sound of the chime of the bells of Shandon is as sweet as the rhyme that was written in their praise, then will their fame be as lasting as that of the “ Izar Kolokol ” of Moscow.
The Russians have a great passion for bells, and the largest bell in the world is the great bell in Moscow, called the “ Izar Kolokol,” or Queen of bells. It was cast by order of the Empress Anna Ivanovna, to replace a great bell cast in the reign of the Emperor Alexis Michaelovitch, but in what year we have not been able to ascertain. This first great bell was called the “ Bolshoi” or, The Great. It was suspended in the tower of St. Ivan, in the Kremlin, or royal palace, in Moscow. Russia was not as well known to travellers then as it is now; but Mr. Clarke, an English gentleman, describes it as suspended a little above the surface, on a vast frame, and required 24 men to ring it. A number of ropes were attached to each side of the great clapper, when at a given signal they-commenced to run backwards and forwards, thus causing the clapper to strike the sides. A conflagration occurred in the Kremlin in 1701, the framework of the bell was burned, and the bell' with several others fell and was broken. This bell was said to weigh 115,000 pounds, or 51% tons.
It was to replace this bell that the Empress Anna Ivanovna ordered the “Izar Kolokol” to be cast, in 1733. It was cast near the tower of Ivan Velakoi, but after the casting it w’as found impossible to transfer it to the Cathedral as Russia did not then possess any engineers of sufficient ability to do so; it was determined to elevate it over the place in which it was cast, and to erect a tower over it there. This was done after great exertion, and the hearts of the Muscovites rejoiced in the voice of their “ Queen of Bells.” ■ ■
Unfortunately the new bell-tower took fire in 1737, only four years after it was erected, the frame gave way, and the mass of fire made the bell red hot—it fell and buried itself in the earth, covered with burning timber. The people, in their anxiety to save their bell, poured great quan tities of water on it, which caused an irregular contraction and the bell' broke, causing a great piece to fall off from its side; in this state it remained for a hundred years.
In giving the dimensions of this bell, I shall quote the words of Mr. Cox, an English traveller, who saw it before it was elevated from the ruins; he says: “ Its size is so enormous that I could scarcely have given credit to the accounts of its magnitude if I had not examined it myself, . and ascertained its dimensions. Its height is nineteen feet, its circumference at the bottom 63 feet 11 inches, and its greatest thickness 23 inches; it is supposed to weigh 432,000 f lbs. It was-cast in the reign of the' Empress Anna Ivan-■ ovna, but the tower in which it was suspended taking fire, it fell, and a large piece was broken out of it. It lays in i a manner useless.”
> When the Kremlin was burned at the time of the French
THE SCHOLASTIC.	339
invasion in 1812, the Bolshoi bell, and 32 others which were ruined in the conflagration, remained buried in the ruins, but on the arrival of the Emperor Alexander in Moscow, in 1817, he ordered these old bells to be excavated and new metal added and the whole mass recast into a new bell, which weighs 180,000 lbs.; this bell stands 20 feet high, and is 18 feet in diameter; the clapper alone weighs 5,900 lbs. The great melting took place on the 7th of March 1818, in' presence of the Greek Archbishop of Moscow, who gave it his benediction, most of the great officers of state, and a vast number of the inhabitants, who proved their devotion by throwing great quantities of gold and silver plate.and jewelry into the fusing mass, as their forefathers had done before them at the casting of the original bells then being refounded or recast.	.
bn the 25th of February, 1819, the new bell of Alexander was moved in great pomp from the place of casting to the cathedral, part of the walls of which had to be torn down to allow it to enter.; the citizens contended for the honor of assisting to draw it along; when it arrived at its destination the people rushed to congratulate Monsieur Bogdanof, the directing engineer, who came near losing his life in the crush, and had nearly all his clothes torn from his person, to be held as tokens of remembrance of his great exploit.	.
About this time it was resolved to attempt the raising of the great “ Izar Kolokol,” but there was no Russian engineer willing to undertake the task, its weight being about 432,000 pounds. A French .engineer in the service of Russia reported favorably on the work, and he, Monsieur de- Montferrand, commenced by excavating round the bell and constructing enormous frames and numerous'capstans and lifting machinery. When all was ready, silence was ordered, and the people beheld with awe and reverence the huge monster slowly rising from the tomb in which it had lain for 100 years.
Monsieur de Montferrand began his difficult task on the 26th of July, 1836. All being ready, at 5 minutes past 6 A. M., September 30th, 1836, the signal to “Hoist away.’.’ was given; nothing was heard but the creaking of capstans and the voice of the director. As the monster rose up out of its tomb, the multitude seemed spell-bound, and at the breaking of some of the cables they were seized with terror and fled in a mass. All being again set to rightj the work proceeded, and at the conclusion of 42 minutes, 33 seconds, the resurrected bell stood above the surface of the earth. Great beams, forming a platform, were passed under it, and with the assistance of rollers and other means it was passed along, through deafening cheers, to its final resting-place, on a great platform of stone, near the tower of Ivan Velikoi, to which it was elevated by means of an inclined plane.	'
The broken piece is so placed that persons can pass to the inside; the interior has the appearance of a great tent, in which the services of the Greek Church are at stated times celebrated. The Emperor ordered a ball and cross to be placed on the top of the bell; this has increased its height to 21 feet, and in order that the new addition should consist of the same standard as the bell, a small piece had to be chipped off for that purpose; but with such superstitious care do the Russians regard their bell that an imperial order had to be obtained before any person would dare to violate the sacred bell. Its composition was found to be as follows: copper, 84.51; tin, 13.21; sulphur 1.25; loss, 1.13.
The architectural ornamentation of the exterior of the bell is of an order -superior to what a person would expect from a people as semi-barbarous as the Russians certainly were at the time of the casting of this vast pile of metal,> for in reality it has more the appearance of a monument than of an actual bell.' The full-size likeness of the Czar Alexis Michaelovitch, and Empress Anna Ivanovna, are -n fine sculptures; in large medallions are the Redeemer, the Blessed Virgin and St. John the Baptist, and the Grand Dukes Constantine, Nicholas, and Michael, while round the lower and upper rims are elaborate mouldings and other architectural ornaments. It is to be hoped that - . the hearts of the Muscovites are now happy in their two great bells, the “Izar Kolokol” and the bell of Alexander,” with some 200 other bells of large size in different churches. . .
China comes next in order in the vast size of its bells. Nankin in China was anciently famous for the largeness of its bells, but their enormous weight brought down, the tower in ruins and the bells have ever since lain upon the ground. One of these bells is nearly 12 feet high, the diameter 7J^ feet, circumference 23J£ feet; the figure is mostly that of a cylinder, except a bulge in the middle. The thickness of the metal at the edges is 7 inches.-From the dimensions of this bell, its weight is computed at 50,000 pounds, which is more then double that of -the great bell at Erfurt, which was at one time supposed . to be the largest in the world. These bells were cast in the reign of the first Emperor of the preceding dynasty, about 350 years ago, so that they must be twice as. old as the great bell “Izar Kolokol,” of Russia, that we Lave, spoken of above. Father le Compte in his memoirs of' China speaks of seven great bells in Pekin, each of which-weighs 120,000 pounds, but the sound of even their largest bells is very poor, being struck with wooden instead of iron clappers. These last bells were cast in the reign of the Emperor Youlo. In China the gong, is more used than the bell.	. .
; The Mohammedans regard the sound of a church bell . with the most implacable animosity, as they hold itto.be ' antagonistic to their own prophet’s teachings; and wherever the Mohammedans rule, there, the sound of a.bell isun-, known: and in their invasions of Christian countries the first thing doomed to destruction was the bell. .	-
It was to supply the place of the.-bell .that induced the Turks to erect those tall and slender minarets that give such-a striking character to Oriental architecture. From the., top of these slender turrets, at certain hours of the day and-night, the voice of the muezzin is heard calling to. prayer,■ and in the still, calm atmosphere of the Oriental countries^ the stentorian voice of the muezzin can be heard.oyer a. city of considerable extent.	, J. F. '
“ Stubs, my dear fellow, isn’t it about time you repaid' me that little loan?” “Augustus, my boy, it isn’t a question of time, but a question of money.” ’ - ' ■	•
A young, lady wants a cookery book full of pictures. ; She says: “What is the use of telling us how to makea ‘ dinner if they give us no plates?”	’
A cheerful savant has discovered that mosquitoes are . a providential guard against disease, upon the supposition' that in summer the human system is peculiarly liable to fever, and the insects, by depleting the quantity of blood, get up'a counter-irritation.	' '
340.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
The Suhobatw,
Published every Week during Term Time at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana.	.
TERMS: One year...................................$1 00
Single copies (5 cts.) of the publication can be obtained at the Students’ Office. • '
Time to think of packing up.	.
The new house has its cornice on and is almost ready to recieve occupants.
.Says an exchange, and we believe it, Next to a dairy, the most difficult thing to keep is a lead pencil.
Accounts are closed in the Students’ Office, we hear. Henceforth cash and no trust, is the motto of F. Maher.
The Graduating Class at the Academy spend Tuesday afternoons at. the agreeable occupation of making pastry and cooking beefsteaks.
•Mr. Shickey’s ’bus is always on hand at the Michigan Southern Depot—especially for the noon train, that leaves Chicago about 10 a. m.	■
Notre Dame had the pleasure of a short visit from James F’ Joy, Esq., President of the Michigan Central Railway Comp., in company with H. E. Sargent, Gen’l Sup’t, and J. S. Hopper, Sup’t Western Division.
General Lynch, of Elgin, will address the Alumni at their next annual meeting. We had the pleasure of meeting the General and having a brief conversation with him. He is looking well, and and we anticipate much pleasure from his speech to the Alumni.
At the splendid Entertainment given by the Senior young ladies of. St.- Mary’s on the occasion of Mother Angela’s patronal feast, as Very Rev. Father Granger was still suffering from the effects of severe, illness he called upon Professor Ivers to make the customary closing remarks. The Professor, who extemporizes almost as felicitously and successfully as he demonstrates the intricacies. of mathematical problems, performed his pleasing task with ease and elegance, and was followed by Rev. Father O’Mahoney, Pastor of St. Patrick’s, South Bend, who said many good things in a few words delivered in his suave and graceful style.
The Conductor of a railway train can make or mar the pleasure.of a trip for such a timid and diffident wayfarer over the rail as we are. We have nothing to say against any that we have met these many years back. On the contrary, quite the reverse. The Lake Shore Road conductors we have known, boy and man, these many years, and have always found them to be men whose heads are level and whose hearts are in the right place, who punch your tickets with a'smile, and are graceful and gentlemanly even if they have to put a would-be D. B. off the train. It is only recently, comparatively speaking, that we have travelled the Michigan Central. On it, too, we have found the conductors well-chosen, particularly the one who runs the train between South Bend and Niles.
We give a correct Time Table of the Michigan Central, sent us by Mr. Snow, General Ticket Agent. Hereafter we will make no changes except on notification from Railroad headquarters,—as was the one from Mr. Snow,—for we find we cannot rely on the time-tables printed in the newspapers.
Later in the week, changes of time on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern came to hand, from S. J. Powell, Ticket Ag’t at South Bend.
Boll of Honor
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, JUNE 11, 1874.
.SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	•
J. Andre, J. Brown, W. Ball, V. Baca, C. Berdel, M. Bas-tarache G. Cunnea, J. Caren, H. Cassidy, J. Crummey, G. Crummey, W. Clarke, T. Cochrane, H. Dehner, F. Devoto, T. Dailey, C. Dodge, W.' Dodge, B. Euans, M. Foley, C. Favey, -J. Flaherty, J. Girard, T. Grier, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, E. Graves, C. Hess, A. Home, J. Hogan, H. Hayes, J. Handley, J. Kennedy, M. Keeler, J. E. Kelly, A. Kreichgauer, J. Luby, J. Mathews, S. Marks, T. McDonough, B. McGinnis, T. McGinnis, M. McCullough, J. McMahon, E. McSweeney, E. McLaughlin, P. McDonald, T. Murphy, E. Monohan, A. Mooney, D. Maloney, J. Ney, F. O’Brien, J. O’Brien, P. O’Meara, P. O’Mahony, T. O’Mahony, C. Proctor, J. Rudge, G. Rudge, L. Sanders, R. Staley, F. Scrafford, P. Skahill, J. Wolfe, H. Walker, C. Walter, L. Watson.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
B. J. Baca, J. F. Beegan, W. P. Breen, L. P. Best, J. Cullen, J. Cohen, J. Dalley, A. Byrne, N. Dryfoos, R. Downey, J. Ewing, J. French, J. C. Golsen, C. Hake, M. J. Kinsella, L. Loser, C. A. Lewes, B. Le Fevre, G. McNulty, C. Myers, W. Meyer, F. Miller, N. J. Mooney, J. O’Connor, E. O’Connor, D. J. O’Connell, H. Quan, E. L. Ratigan, W. Robinson, J. F. Soule, F. Smyth, L. Smith, J. Smith, T. Solon, E. Washburn, F. Wittels-burger, J. E. Wood, R. Walker, D. Gorman, J. Borie.
All ApouacL
_____ ‘ . -
Commencement-Day is near at hand.
The St. Stanislaus Philopatriaus are all-alive.
Written Examination for the Collegiate-s is over.
The St. Cecilia Philomatheans are resting on their well won honors.	-
Feasts are extremely numerous these days. None, we believe, are very sumptuous.
Some of our students are getting very fine suits made in ' South Bend for Exhibition Day.
Base-Ball Championship has been decided. The Star of the East is the champion club.
The Minims beat the third nine of the Excelsiors “ every . shot”-now. Bully for the Minims!	.
Mr. Bonney has taken an immense number of pictures this summer. We believe he is giving general satisfaction.
We understand that Father General’s house will be tenable by Commencement-time and will be occupied by visitors.	’
Some few days recently have been veiy warm,—but, there have been many days of cool, pleasant weather, during which the boys enjoyed field sports with a good zest during recreation time.
Thos. Cunnea, of Morris, Bl., an old student, was at the .
i
■i
s
I . *
1
THE SCHOLASTIC.
841
College on Wednesday and Thursday. He was looking very well.	’
■ The Thespians have commenced their rehearsals of the play, “Waiting for the Verdict.” They are to play it on the eve of Commencement-Day. It is generally thought that they will give the best dramatic Entertainment ever given here.
Bathing in the lake commenced on Wednesday. The Minims were the first. They enjoyed themselves greatly. The students when bathing are not permitted to go out much beyond their depth.
Examination of the Senior Class commences , on Monday, and will continue until Tuesday evening. The Seniors are all very anxious, and some pretty nervous, about the result of this examination. We wish them all success.
‘	The members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Associa-
tion return their sincere thanks to Bro. Marcellinus, Prof. A. J. Stacc and. Prof. J. F. Edwards, for kind aid afforded them in preparing for the Sixteenth Anniversary Exer,	cises.	.
‘	Obituary.
DEATH OF MICHAEL MAHONEY.
At a special meeting of the Holy Angels’ Sodality held on Sunday, June the 7th, the following resolutions were passed on the death of their deceased fellow-member, - Michael Mahoney, who died recently in New York:
.	Whereas it has pleased Almighty God to call from this
world in the prime of his life our late fellow-member Michael Mahoney, and as we most heartily sympathise with his parents in their bereavement, be it therefore Besolved, That we, in accordance with the doctrines of the Catholic Church, and for the welfare of our deceased member, pray for the repose of his soul,
Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be forwarded to the relatives of the deceased, the Notre Dame Scno-lastic and the New York Freeman's Journal.
Rev. A. Granger, Director;
J. G. Ewing.
•	M. McCormack.
W. P. Breen.
.	Committee on Resolutions.
BHnSSESESSSSESSEE&BEEBSSSSBiaSSSSBESZSSSISSSSSeSSB
St. Aloysius Kdlodemio Society.
(	Editor Scholastic : Dear Sir,—A special meeting of
the St. Aloysius Philodemic Society was ordered by the President, Reverend Mr. J. Zahm, C. S. C., on Monday, the 1st inst. The object of the meeting was of a somewhat miscellaneous character, as it was to be the last for the present scholastic year. All the members were present, and our worthy President in the chair. Though all were feeling as those who have regularly met and associated as companions, literary antagonists and fellow-laborers in the field of knowledge, and friends at all times are wont to feel when assembled together for perhaps the last time for many, the
|	buisness of the meeting was immediately begun.
1 .	The ostensible object of the meeting was the appoint-
[	ment of a member to represent the Society on Society-Day,
I	a committee for procuring badges, and a committee to
make arrangements for having a photograph of the Society taken. By nomination of Mr. B. J. McGinnis, and the unanimous vote of the members, Mr. Edward McSweeney was chosen representative for Society-Day. Not having the names of those who were appointed to perform other duties, we cannot give them from memory. These, seemingly preliminary, duties being finished, it was moved that a vote of thanks be tendered to our Director, Rev. Joseph . C. Carrier, 0. S. C. Somebody moved an amendment to this motion—'namely, that at the same time a vote of thanks be also tendered to our President, Rev. Mr. Zahm, C. S. C. Though it was undoubtedly the intention of the . Society to tender the President a vote of thanks after that . tendered the Rev. Director, the movement for amendment was seconded and a vote of thanks was tendered to both the Director and President at the same time. This vote gave entire satisfaction to all, as it expressed, though in a formal manner, the gratitude of each member to his Director and President. This being over, the President spoke for a short time. He expressed his satisfaction at the industry and earnestness of all the members in performing the various duties assigned them during the year, and also at tbe marked ability with which many of the members performed those duties. He also expressed his desire that each member would ever deserve the approbation of the whole Society as a body, that all would succeed in their various undertakings in the world, and become worthy members of whatever profession or occupation they would devote themselves to. Concluding his remarks, he intimated • a desire that all the members would again meet, if not altogether, at least in parties of two and upwards, and said he was sure that whenever such a meeting would take place it would be signalized by the warmest friendship, a hearty shake-hands, and every demonstration of attachment. It was evident that the President but expressed the sentiments of all the members, and his remarks elicited signs of sincere friendship and general good feeling.
There being, apparently, no further business to be transacted, somebody moved that the meeting adjourn; but before the motion had time to be seconded, Mr. B. J. McGinnis, whose special characterist:c seems to be always to suggest some happy and appropriate expedient at the proper moment, arose and said that as it was to be the last meeting he deemed it proper that each member should say a few words expressive of his feelings. This idea met with unanimous approbation and was immediately acted upon by the President, who called on Mr. E. McSweeney, the Vice-President. Mr. McSweeny arose, and fully indorsed what the President had said, but stated that as he was to represent the members on Society-Day he would reserve all he had to say for that occasion. The President then allied on Mr. B. J. McGinnis, who arose, and in a short but affectingly eloquent address expressed his gratitude to the President for the kind interest he had taken in the welfare of the Society, his own good feeling towards all the members, his satisfaction at what he had accomplished while a member, and closed with a brief exhortation to the members to be ever faithful to those useful precepts and sound moral principles which have been taught them while students at Notre Dame, and the habits of emulation and industry which characterize the St. Aloysius Society; in short, never to cease until the highest round of the ladder had been attained, and then to act the part of true men and good citizens.	.	■	-
342
T HE SC H O L ASTIC.
Mr. McGinnis having finished, others followed; hut there being so many members in the Society, should we endeavor to give a synopsis of what each one said, we fear that it would be trespassing too much on your columns. Suffice it to say that each member spoke with much warmth, and that many found it difficult to restrain their feelings while some of the most affecting of the addresses were delivered.
Though it was our intention to mention particularly only what was said by the first speaker, we feel that we would not be faithfully discharging the. duty incumbent on us were we not to notice a few of the more marked addresses. Mr. O’Meara, being one of the old members present, gave a brief summary of what he recollected the Society to have achieved while he was connected with it, and reiterated the sentiments of approbation and friendship which had already been expressed. Mr. Dehner not only surpassed the anticipations of all, but spoke with much feeling and pathos. When it came T. A. Dailey’s turn to make his remarks, there was a change of programme, from the affecting to the mirthful. • He had been laboring under the inconvenience of a slight headache and did not wish to make a long speech. Mr. Berdel, having in a few well-chosen remarks stated that he had derived much benefit from his connection with the Society, and expressed his kind feeling towards all the members, showed his good taste by closing with a beautiful quotation on friendship, from Burns. Mr. W. Ball, who as he sat next to us assured us that he could say nothing, and that he would make a poor show in endeavoring to excuse himself, soon undeceived us, and proved, though much affected by the feelings which had been already expressed, that he was master of the situation, as well by the elegance of his language and the beauty and pathos of his expression, as by his easy and graceful yet commanding delivery. We thought that everything had been said that was capable of awaking tender and melancholy emotions, together with resolutions to be more ardent in the discharge of our duties to ourselves and our fellow-beings,—that already the cups were full and the fountains exhausted,—but how little do we know what we are capable of enjoying or enduring, or what may be in store for us! We regret that we do not recollect Mr. Ball’s address entire, and especially the exact words of what to us seemed the grandest and most beautiful metaphor that we ever heard—a metaphor which could only be the spontaneous language of a soul richly endowed with loftiness of thought, refinement of taste, and a true poetic instinct; but though we forget the words, we will ever remember the substance, and in imagination will look with pleasure from the dark and stormy sea to that green and tranquil island which he so vividly portrayed.
Mr. Ball having finished, there remained several others to give a few parting words, to express their feelings, desires, regrets, and anticipations, all of whom, your humble servant excepted, aquitted themselves with credit. All finished, the President expressed his pleasure at the proceedings, and said that he had one favor to request of all the members: namely that none of them would leave for home on Commencement-Day without seeing him before starting. We have no doubt whatever but this favor will be granted, if indeed it is a favor to others to do ourselves an honor and a pleasure. The Society then adjourned, to reorganize in September. .
Before concluding, I would beg to state that by special
stipulation with the Corresponding Secretary I have endeavored to perform a duty which does not rightfully belong to me, and on behalf of the whole Society tender you our thanks for kindly extending to us the privilege of having our various transactions published in your valuable journal.	One of the Philodemics.
SAINT MAST’S ACADEMY.
Miss M. Railton, “ J. Keedy, “ S. Harris, “ A. Harris, ■ “ M. Roach, “ A. E. Pool,
Mary’s Academy, June 8, 1874.
ARRIVALS.
Chicago, Illinois.
South Bend, Indiana;
Niles, Michigan.
Niles, Michigan. * * Baltimore, Maryland.
Chicago, Illinois.
• On Wednesday last, St. Mary’s was honored by a visit from the Right Reverend Bishop of Detroit. His words .of kind encouragement to the pupils were gratefully appreciated. He has very graciously accepted the urgent invitation given to be present at the Commencement Exercises on the 24th inst. The Right Rev. Bishop was accompanied by Very Rev. Rather Schutjes, V. G.
; Mr. and Mrs. Daggett also paid a visit to St. Mary’s, and on Wednesday evening the Sisters and pupils had the pleasure of listening to a highly interesting and instructive lecture on “Raphael,” by Mrs. Daggett, the talented translator of Carl Blanc’s Grammar of Painting. The lecture was illustrated by many fine photograph copies of Raphael’s masterpieces. All present were delighted, and return thanks to the amiable and accomplished lady who has given.such an artistic treat to our Art students.
_ The Examination in Instrumental Music commenced last Friday and will continue during the week.' To-day the examination of the pupils of the Graduating Class commenced. Answers to be written. On the 18th the General Examination commences, and will end on the 22nd, to be followed by the examination of the highest in Composition, and in Vocal and Instrumental Music. Everyone seems in earnest; very few are frightened, for nearly all have been industrious students.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses L. Niel, M. Kearney, A. M. Clarke, N. Gross, R. Devoto, M. Brown, R. Spier, L. West, L. Black, N. Langdon, J. Walker, L; Ritchie, M. Letourneau, J. Locke, E. Boyce, K. Finley, A. Curtin, M. Walker, A. -T. Clarke, M. Foote, M. Quan, E. Sweeney, E. Bohan. M. Johnson, E. Denehey, E. Dougherty, S. Sweeney, R. Burke, L. Bradford, L. Pfeiffer, A. Conahan, N. McEwen, F. Moore, J. Bennett, N. Huber, L. Wyman, L. Keena, R. Roscesco, M. Bell, A. Minton, M. Kengel, L. Henrotin, E. Ross, F. Taylor, E. O’Connor, C. Miller, K. Graham, M. O’Mahony, H. Miller, R. Neteler, M. Ives, S. Harris, M. Poquette, N. O’Connell, M. Klotz, C. Sottrup, M. Sheil-, A. Boser, A. Garies, C. Morgan, K. Iremeter, K. Engel, M. Railton.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ENGLISH CLASSES.
All the young ladies of the Graduating Class.
1st Sr; Class—Misses Curtin, Boyce, L. Ritchie, Letourneau, Hagerty, J. Kearney, Finley, Wicker, V. Ball, Dent, Walker, Locke.-
THE.SCHOLASTIC.
343
2nd Sr. Class—Misses Bradford, Foote, Fanning, Burke, Keeline, A. T. Clarke, Reilly, Quan, Stimpson, E. Sweeney, Bohan, M. Johnson, Denehey, Arnold.
3rd Sr. Class—Misses McEwen, Moore, Keena, Ros-cesco, Tinsley, Bell, Minton, Pfeiffer, Conahan, Wade, Wyman, Kengel, M. Barry, L. Ritchie, Roberts, Bennett,
1st Prep. Class—Misses Ross, Kreigh, Lilly, L. Johnson, O’Mahony, H. Miller, Casey, O’Connor, Canoil, Klar, C. Miller, Kelly, Graham, McKeever, Neteler, Ives, A. Harris.
2nd Prep. Class—Misses Riopelle, Railton, Sottrup, Quill, Haney, Poquette, Klotz, Shields, Boser, Garies, C. Morgan, Iremeter, Engel, A. Sweeney.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Richardson, A. Smith, M. Faxon; A. Walsh, M. Resch, M. Carlin, K. and M. Hutchinson, K. Morehead, M. O’Connor, I. Fisk, B. Wilson, M. Reynolds, M. Walsh, L. Harrison, A. Harris, H. Hand, M. Pritchard, M. Ewing, E. Lang, M. Brown, J. and M. Thompson, H. Peak, M. Summers, M. Jackson, M. Kaeseburg,-M. A. Schultheis, J. Brown, A. Koch, A. Cullen, D. Allen, L. Germain, B. Golsen, L. Walsh, E. Lappin, A. Goewey, E. Schnohack, G. Barry, L. West, L. Lynch, M. Ware, E. Simpson, R. Gallary, N. and I. Mann, C. Orr, M. Roach, E. McDougall, J. Keedy, C. Hughes, B. Thomas, K. Nolan.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st Sr. Class—E. Richardson, A. Smith.
3rd Sr. Class—M. Faxon, A. Walsh.
1st Prep. Class—M. Resch, M. Carlin, K. Morehead, K. Hutchinson, M. O’Connor, I. Fisk, B. Wilson, M. Reynolds, M. Walsh, A. Harris.
2nd Prep. Class—L. Harrison, H. Hand, M. Ewing, E. Lang.
Jr. Prep. Class—J. and M. Thompson; H. Peak, M. Jackson, M. Hutchinson, M. Kaeseburg, M. A. Schulthies, J. Brown, D. Allen, L. Germain, L- Walsh, E. Lappin.
1st Jr. Class—E. Schnohack, A. Ewing, A. Goewey, K. Lassen, L. West, E. Simpson, R. Gallary, N. Mann, C. Orr, J. Andrews, M. Roach. '
2nd Jr. Class—I. 'Mann, C. and M. Hughes, H. Mier, J. Keedy, B. Thomas.
Be not too Positive.—Do not be too sure that you are right in your opinions. Remember, if you are right in one particular, you may be wrong in others. Do not boldly contradict, but calmly express your reasons, and patiently bear with those whose understanding is less clear, or whose reason may be disturbed by passion. •Rather than“Itis” and “It isn’t,” or “You did” and “ You didn’t,” say, “It seems to me,” or “I think it is,” or “If I mistake not.” Avoid all rude and ill-natured expressions, as calling one foolish, obstinate, or provokingly stupid. Our aim should be to advance the truth, not ourselves. It often happens that much time is wasted and temper lost in matters of no great consequence. Let us readily yield in trifles. While in all cases concerning duty' and happiness we are faithful to the right, let us remember to hold the truth in meekness.
Sophronius, a wise teacher, would not suffer his grownup sons and daughters to associate with those whose conduct was not pure and upright. .	. .
“ Dear father,” said the gentle Eulalia to him one day,
when he forebade her, in company with her brother, to visit the volatile Lucinda—“dear father, you must.think us very childish, if you imagine we should be exposed to danger by it.”
The father took in silence a dead coal from the hearth, and reached it to his daughter.
“It will not hurt you, my child, take it.”
Eulalia did so, and behold, her delicate white hand was soiled and blackened, and, as.it chanced, her white dress also.’
“We cannot be too careful in handling coals,” said Eulalia in vexation.
“Yes, truly,” said her father ; “ you see, my child, that coals, even if they do not burn, will blacken. So it is even with the. company of the vicious.”—Translated from the German.
■ o-«
“One thing,” said an old toper, “was never seen coming through the rye, and that’s the kind of whiskey we gd now-a-days.
A Scotchman went to a lawyer one day for advice, and detailed the circumstances of the case. “ Have you told me the facts precisely as they occurred?” asked the lawyer. “ O! ay, sir! ” replied he; I thoot it best to tell ye the plain truth. Ye can put the lies into it yourself.”
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
Tihs Institution, incorporated in 1S44,enlarged in 1S66, and fitted np with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, is easy of access from all parts of the United States.	—
. TERMS:	.	.
Matriculation fee, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	$ 500
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing'
and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, -	- 150 OO
French, German. Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	■ - . 12	50
Use of Piano, -	--	--	-	-	--	--10	00
Use of Violin, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	- 2	00
Drawing, -	--	--	--	--	--	- 15 00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, - - - --	-" ■ 5'00
Graduation Fee—Commercial; $5;-Scientific, $8; Classical, -- 10 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are
charged, extra; -• -- . • -- -- -- -- - . -	-	35 00
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class Books,-Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on th 1st of February.
For further particulars, address ....
Bev. A. LEIGONNIBH, C.S.C.
President.
THE OLD “RELIABLE” DWIGHT HOUSE, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the above popular and reliable -House, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first class furniture. The. travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of home during their stay, JERRY KNtGHTjp. - t GaPPAIN MILLS, J "opnetors.
nor 15—tf
EMPLOYMENT.
EVERY man, woman, boy and'girl who would like to engage in the business of selling Pictures, Charts, &<?.» should send their address at once. From $3 to $15 per day can easily be made. Send for private terms and < atalogue. Andress W. Mi BUKROW, 200 Main Street, .
je 13-4t.	Bristol, Tenn. .
344
THE SCHOLASTIC.
CANDY! CANDY!
The Low Pbices Still Continue at
L. GARRITY’S
I L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
C! JY TT ZD NT FAOTOKY, 100 Van Buren Street, Chicago.
Broken Candy ----- 15e.
Fine Mixed Candy -	-	-	- 25e.
Choice Mixed Candy -	-	-	35e.
.Caramels ------ 35c.
Molasses and Cream Candy -	-	25c.
Proportionately JL.o’vr Prices to Wtiolc-sale Casli Buyers.
WAITED—For Cash—Five or ten. tons of Maple Sugar
Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
apl 25 —tf
A Great Offer to All!
tl.oo WORTH SEEDS
AND
Vick’s Guide GIVEN -A-NAr-A-T-Young Folks’ Rural AND TWO Lovely Chromos.
The Young Follc’s Hural is pronounced the “handsomest and best paper for Young People published.'1 It is for city or country, combining numerous features not found in any other periodical, and has proved a wonderful success. For every subscription received before May 1st, at the regular single subscription price for one year, only §1.50, we will give (in addition to the paper) two lovely landscape chromos, “Morning on the Mississippi,” and “ Sunset on the Sierras" mounted and postpaid: Vick's Floral Guide for one year, and an order on Mr. Vick for One Dollar’s Worth of Flower or Vegetable Seeds (such as you may select) to be sent by him, postpaid! Inclose the money to H. N. F. LEWIS, Publisher, Chicago, saying what you wish.
Sample of paper, 10 cents, postpaid.
Apr. 18—Gt.
On and after Sunday, May 24, 1874, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2.35 a. m. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10.30; Cleveland, 2.35 P. m.; Buffalo, 8.55 p. m.
10.38 a. sr. (No. 2), Mail, over Main Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p. x.; Cleveland, 10.20
12.27 a. M. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.50; Cleveland, 10.10 p. x.; Buffalo 4.05 a. st.	•
9.11 p. x. (No. 6), Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40; Cleveland, 7.05; Buffalo, 1.10 P. x.
7.54 p. x. (No. 10) Toledo Express, Main Line. Arrives at Toledo,’2.30 a.x„ Cleveland 7.05 a. x., Buffalo 1-10p.m.
3.55 p. 3i. [No.701, Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
3.20 a. m. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicago 6 30 A.m.
4.50 a. st. (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.40; Chicago, 8.00 a. m.
5.35 r. 3i. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 6 55; Chicago, 9.10 P. x.
4.51 p. x. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte
5.45; Chicago, 8 00.	•
8.00 a. x. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Lapoote 8.55 a. x , Chicago 11.10.
730 a.m. [No. 71] Local Freight.
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers upon Through Freight Trains.
J. W. CARY, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.	.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t Western Division, Chicago. ■
W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.	'
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t.
5
Michigan Central Railroad
-	Time Table.
From and after May 24th, trains on the Michigan Central ^Railroad leave Niles as follows: .	.
Night Express, Mail. -	-	-
Day Express, -Accommodation, -Atlantic Express Way Freight,
.TRAINS EASTWARD.
Evening Express, Pacific Express, Accommodation, Mail -	-	-
Day Express -
Way Freight -
TRAINS WESTWARD.
AIR LINE DIVISION.
12.45 a.m
9.10 a.m
12.12 a.m
7.35 p.m
8.55 p.m.
8.00 a.m
2.35 a.m
4.40 a.m
6.25 a.m
3.57 p.m
4.35 p m
1.45 p.m
285" Passengers going to local points West, should take Nos. 7,9; and 71; East, Nos.2and70. Warsaw Express (connecting with No. 4) leaves Elkhart at 12.30 p. x., running through to Wabash. Through tickets to all competing points in every direction. Local Tickets. Insurance tickets, R. R. Guides, etc., will be furnished upon applies* tion to the Ticket Agent._____________________ -
PEOSTLVAA'IA CENTRAL ‘
DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New ■
Fork without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9 00 p. m. ] Arrives at New York 11.30 a.m.* 2d train “	“	5.15 p. m. “	“	6.41 a.m.*
3rd train “	“	9.00. p. m.	|	“	“	11.30 p.m.*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J. N. MoCCLLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.	•
J. M.C. CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jb., Gen. Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Phielphia.	’
F. R. MYERS, Gen’l Pass.and Ticket Ag’t, Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago. .
* Second day._________________________________ .
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line;
CWRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near
Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
I
,1
i
1
)
EASTWARD.
Mail—Arrives in Niles -------	. 9.15 p.m
Three Rivers Accommodation ------- 7.40 p.m
Atlantic Express -	--	--	--	--	9.0<>p.m
Way Freight ----------	10.30 a.m
WESTWARD.-
Three Rivers Accommodation—Leave Niles	-	-	- 9.05 a.m
Mail -	--	--	--	--	--	-	3.45 p.m
Pacific Express - -- -- -- -- - 5.05 a.m Way Freight- ---------- 5.05 p.m
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via - Jacksonville, Hl., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line,
St. Louis and Spri ngfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and. also via Jacksonville Division Kansas City Expre ss, via Jackson-vill, HL, and Louisiana, Mo.
LEAVE.
*9:30 a.m.
♦9:45 a.m.
♦9:30 a.m.
♦4:10 p.m.
+6:30 p.m.
$9:00 p.m.
$9:45 p.m.
arrive.
*8:00 p.m.
*4:30 p.m
*4:30 p.m.
*9:40 a.m.
*4:30 .m.
17:15 a.m.
§7:15 a.m
SOUTH BEND DIVISION.
Trains leaae South Bend—815 a m, 1110 a m, 3.00 p m, 6.30 p m.
Arrive at Niles—8.42 a m, 11.40 a m, 3,30 p m, 7.00 p m
Leave Niles—6.30 am, 9.20 a m, 12.45 p m, 4.35 pm.
Arrive at South Bene—7.05 am, 9.55 a m, 1.20 pm, 5.10 pm.	,
Sunday Trains Leave Sont h Bend 9.00 a m. 7.00 p m.
“	“	Arrive at Niles—9.30 a m, 7.30 p m.
NOTRE DAME STATION.
Arrive—7.00 am, 9.50 a m, 1.15 p m, 5.05 p m.
Leave—8.20 a m. 11.15 a m. 3.05 p m, 6.35 p m.
Sunday Trains.
Arrive—8.3'l am, 5.30pm	Leave—9.r5 am, 7.05 pm.
H. E. SARGENT, Gen'l Superintendent, Chicago, Illinois.
S. R. KING, Passenger aud-Freight Agent, South Bend.
B. CELESTINE, Agent, Notie Dame.	.
* Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only $ Ex cept Saturday. 11 Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO. CHICAGO.
LOUISVILLE N. ALBANY & CHICAGO R.H.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 12, 1873, trains pass New Albany and Salem Crossing, as follows: G-OING NORTH.
Pass.'... Freight. Freight. Pass...,
7.29 p. x.
Pass,
GOING SOUTH■
.2.48 a. m. Freight .8.57 p. m. Freight. .9.24 a. m. Pass....
...............8.23	p.m
..............10.47	A. M ...............4.45.A. x
..............11.23	a.m
H. N. CANIFF, Agent.
,1 t
j
I
4