The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE
. “ Vita Sine Literis Mors Est.”
Volume VI. UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, IND., SEPT. 21, 1872.
Number 2.
Weary of Life.
BY THE AUTHORESS OF “ BEAUTIFUL SNOW.”
Weary of life and weary of sin, ’ The ceaseless strife and worldly din, Struggling ever to act a part, .
Veiling my soul and shrouding my heart, Hating the world, and longing to be Alone, at rest, untrammelled and free, Struggling ever in endless strife— Father iu Heaven,T’m weary of life.
Weary of life that once was fair, That precious gem, that jewel rare; Life, with its changing, sunny hours, Its golden smiles and wealth of flowers; Life of my infant, childish years,	'
With its rippling smiles and sparkling tears; Tears that knew nought of my anger or StrifeFather in Heaven, I’m weary of life.
Weary of life that once was so bright, With its rainbow hues of dazzling light, The light of my girlhood’s early days, With the gorgeous glare of its noonday blaze, Ah! deeming my life but one endless day, Nor counting the hours that passed away, Hours with joy and? pleasure once rife— Yet, Father in Heaven, I’m weary of life.
Weary of life, its sin and its crime, Its-poisoned breath and its noisome slime. O sin 1 O crime ! how bitter to taste The tempting fruit of the desert waste! That fruit so fair and bright to the eye On the lips will fade, and in ashes die, Filling the heart with woe and strife, Till, Father in Heaven, we weary of life.
Weary of life that has grown so dark, Pining away in this prisoned ark, Weary, dear Lord, as the captive dove, Longing to soar to the light above, Seeking some spot where my foot may rest From the deluge of sin in the human breast, Battling ever in care and strife— Father in Heaven, I’m weary of life.]
Weary of life, shall one so lost, So tempest-driven, so wildly tossed, -Dare to weep as a Magdalen wept,	.
When in lowly sorrow, a sinner, she crept, And knelt at Thy feet in tears and sighs And sought but a glance from Thy sacred eyes, The glance that dispelled all sin and strife When her heart was weary and sick of life.
TUDENTS.
-	Weary of life, but ah I in Thy love
I look for a truer life above, The life that fades not nor passes away, The dawning sun of eternal day, The morning that breaks o’er the tempest wave. And shines through the gloom of the yawning grave, Cheering us on through woe and strife With the lasting joys of a brighter life.
Weary of life, and weary of sin,	'
This worldly strife and worldly din, Looking in hope for the promised land, Watching the veil on its golden strand, Watching that veil so misty and bright Shrouding its shores from my yearning sight, • Watching the Hand that shall send it away, Giving me life and endless day.
Idiosyncrasies.
Each member of the human family hath that in his nature which distinguisheth him from every other member, otherwise two different beings would exist without a difference, which involveth a contradiction in terms. Well, then, must it be for him who differeth from his fellow-beings by some superior excellence—some unapproachable perfection—in which alone his peculiarity con-sisteth—which constituteth his glorious and inimitable idiosyncrasy. But in many cases where idiosyncrasy is very marked, we are reminded of the peculiar significance of the termination of the word—the idiosyn-crazy appear-eth to consist in that which, logically developed, would terminate in insanity. It is, in short, an oddity of speech —a trick of manner—an obliquity of mental vision—an inability to assimilate ideas—a tension of moral principle in one direction with a corresponding relaxation in the other. Such are the little peculiarities which wise men strive to diminish, or at least to conceal from the notice of their fellow-creatures, whereas foolish men exaggerate them till they end in monomania.
We have heard of persons so persuaded that all diseases to which humanity is subject arise from the teeth, that they have had all their teeth pulled, and false ivories substituted. We could scarcely say that this is “ tooth in ”— and yet no dentist would induce us to follow their example. Others will persist in spelling it “ Sybil ” instead of “ Sibyl,” and that for reasons as incomprehen-Sibyl as the Sibylline books themselves. In short, everybody has some little odd streak, and we ourselves are willing to acknowledge our own. We have said, indeed, that it is the part of a wise man to conceal his foibles as much as possible, while endeavoring to reduce them, but we are not
10
THE SCHOLASTIC.
impugning this aphorism by exposing our own, because we are writing anonymously, and nobody has the faintest idea who we are, except the Editor, and he won’t expose us. We therefore pronounce boldly that our idiosyncrasy consists in never travelling in the Pullman palace cars, and particularly not in the dining cars, for fear of catching the Pullinariary consumption,’ which prevails there to an alarming degree. Even on ember days, such as the present, when your breakfast is reduced to zero, and your . dinner merely soup-or-fish-all, we prefer snatching up stray bites that chance throws in our way to entering one of those dreaded vehicles.	.
If, then, our peculiarities be so often our foibles, and our foibles be our principal misfortunes, how can we appeal for sympathy in these misfortunes to those who must be of necessity free from these same peculiarities? How can we address those simple and pathetic words: “You know how it is yourself” to one that doesn’t and cant and never will know how it is himself? Alas! such is the aggravation of these unfortunate idiosyncrasies, that sympathy, the genial balm applied to other and less poignant wounds, from them must ever be withheld.
Reader, if your idiosyncrasy be a singular excellence, such as being able to climb a smooth pole of indefinite altitude—to edit a newspaper with satisfaction to all your readers—to drink fifty-nine glasses of lager beer in rapid succession, without making either a corpse or a beast of yourself—or otherwise to distinguish yourself among your fellows, rejoice exceedingly; and cultivate the faculty with assiduity; but if, as is more likely, you are remarkable for nothing in particular, don’t let any one know it if you can help it.	R.
Mischief-Makers.
There is no blessing which kind Providence bestows upon us that may not be perverted by the malice or selfishness of man. One mischief-maker alone is enough to cause innumerable quarrels, slanders, and contentions, in communities where all should be at peace. Some people seem to take a fiendish delight in making all the trouble they possibly can in the world. By continually whispering their suspicions, and by publishing to the world all they know to the detriment of their neighbor, they succeed in stirring up in the breasts of others feelings which are often most contrary to Christian charity. These mischief-makers are found everywhere, and may be known by the eagerness they always manifest to hear all the news, scandals, mishaps, quarrels, litigations, feuds, and everything else that may disturb the peace and good order of society. This is their capital, and unfortunately they are never at a loss to find means of increasing it.
The most innocent persons are often the victims of their malice; neither do they spare those whose position or calling should command universal respect.
It should be the rule of everyone never to listen to these tale-bearing, mischief-making, devil-helping individuals, whose very manner betrays the malice that is lurking in their hearts. They should be driven from the haunts of men and thrust into obscurity as dangerous individuals.
Advice to a Student.
It must be plain to every intelligent student that industry and perseverance are the first requisites for success in: study as well as in .everything else, and it should be the first care of the student to form in the beginning of his college life habits of these virtues which will crown bis studies with success, and be like guiding-stars in after life. Nothing can be gained in life without labor, and the stu-. dent who imagines he will ever become a learned man without real hard, earnest study wofully deceives himself.
Perseverence, too, is hot less necessary; it is not sufficient to have begun well; the same persevering effort must be continued to the end. The student in the first place when entering college should leave to those more enlightened and experienced than himself the entire direction of his studies and should never quit those he has once under-, taken. The indiscriminate studying of one branch' to-day and another to-morrow is one of the worst habits a student can form, and has filled the world with half-educated men. It should be the earnest endeavor of every student to make the best possible use of every moment of his time; and to accomplish this, nothing is of more importance than order in the distribution of time, allowing to each study the space it demands. No affair, however important, should be allowed to encroach upon the hours reserved for study. Everything has its proper time. The hours of recreation are necessary to afford the mind as well as the body the relaxation which it requires.	.
A bow that is always bent is sure to break, and experience amply proves that those who study during free time have lost by it in the end. Many students who have a just appreciation of time study only those branches which they know will be of most service to them in after life. Their wisdom is to be commended; but at the same time it is to be regretted that so many others entirely lose sight of this, arid after years spent at college are neither fitted for a commercial nor a professional life. The fault is almost invariably their own, and generally arises from a want of system and order in study. Many young men who enter college expect to do everything in a shorter time than that marked out. That which ordinarily requires five or six years they hope to accomplish in three or four at most, and it is often useless to try to convince them of the folly of such an undertaking. To commence at the beginning and pass through, in regular order, each class, is the only way to obtain a thorough and solid education, and if this be wanting nothing can supply its place. Wealth and position may command respect, but education constitutes the aristocracy of manhood.
1
New Publications.
A French Verb Book. By Ernest Lagarde,’ A. M., Philadelphia: Eldredge and Brother, Publishers.
This is a neat volume of 130 pages, giving a full and clear description of the French Verb, not only in regard to its form, but also in regard to its use. It is just the book long needed, by students of the French language. We bespeak for it a favorable reception by all who wish to know French.
“Thebe isn’t a mite,” says Lavater, “ but what fancies itself the cheese."
Ths greatest nutmeg ever known met with a grater.

THE SCHOLASTIC.
,n
Ths Americas. Elocutioaist.
SECOND EDITION REVISED.
[From the Chicago Times.] .
The American Elocutionist and Dramatic Reader. For the use of Colleges, Academies and Schools. By Joseph A.
‘ Lyons, A. M. With an elaborate introduction on Elocution and Vocal Culture. By Rev. M. B. Brown, A. M., Professor of Theology in the University of Notre Dame. Philadelphia: E. H. Butler & Co.
In a country of free institutions, where public speaking is such a potent engine of swaying public sentiment, the study of elocution becomes one of the. most important branches of education. It is not too much to say that no element of popularity in a school or college is so effective in attracting numbers to its teaching as an able and vigorous elocutionary system. * For aside from the mere question of increased usefulness through the faculty of speaking in public in a pleasing manner, the training of the organs, the improvement in inflection and modulation lends ah augment to the influence of the individual in private life. Elegance and clearness of enunciation constitute one of the most palptble distinctions between the well-bred gentleman, the man of culture, and the rude, half-educated masses, the canaiUe, if it is allowable to use such a word in the great American republic.
Prof. Joseph A. Lyons, the compiler of the present book, gives us the fruit of the study of years in his volume of ' selections. It contains examples of every variety and style of declamation, sufficient to meet the wants of all. Care has been exercised to avoid all selections illustrating the local politics of the present d ly, in the desire to avoid wounding the prejudices of any.
Another feature of the pieces collated for this volume is the avoidance as far as possible of the old hackneyed things, which have been embodied so often in school speakers. Many new and fresh compositions, particularly of the dramatic form (some of them written expressly for this work) are given, and they are of sufficient ability to prove widely acceptable without a doubt. -Rev. M. B. Brown prefaces the book with a vigorous and thoughtful essay on vocal culture, which is full of valuable suggestion and cannot fail to meet the approbation of all those critical - on the subject.
Loxa, III., February 19,1873.
Lyons’ Elocution is singularly adapted to my classes, and I shall put it in the hands of my next class in elocution, as the text book of the Academy in that specialty. I very much approve of the plan. The diagrams have long been needed, for they depict to the eye what words must always fail to do—the additional force of expression given to language by attitude and gesture. Without some such accurate pictures to stimulate a class to emulation, what ought to be a pleasing study, both in imparting instruction and the receiving of it, becomes otherwise a dry and insipid branch in theory and practice.
T. J. Lee.
.	St. Mary’s Mission, Kan., February 13, 1872.
Lyons’ American Elocutionist is, in my opinion, one of the best that has yet appeared. I shall endeavor to introduce it into our school next scholastic year.
P. i. WAB9, S.J. I
«»•	■*	•« s'--*	"	-	-
A Hot Climb.
I was riding in the cars some days ago, and sat alongside of a fellow who was as weather-beaten as if he had been sitting six weeks astraddle of a water-melon trying to put out the sun by spitting at it We conversed; I said to him:
“ What’s your name ?”
Says he, “ Adolphus.” ,
Says I, “ Your mother’s name ?”
Says he, “Mary.”
I looked amaz?d, and says I, “Mary, Mary! can it be possible that you are the lamb ?”
Says he, “ The what ?”
Says I, “ The lamb that Mary had.”
He revealed the fact that he was not the lamb, and be further observed, “ It is all-fired hot! ”
Says I, “ Did you ever visit a tropical climate?”
Says he, “A what?"
Says I, “ A hot climate.”
Says he, “ Jimminy crix, stranger, I’ve plowed up a hill-side Fourth of J uly, when the sun set my straw hat on fire, and if that ain’t a hot climate why I ha’nt been to one as yet.”
Before I had time to reply, the conductor came along and shouted out “ Tickets!”
Greeny—“ I’ve got none.”
Conductor—u Money then.”
Greeny—“ I havn’t any.”
Conductor—“ Got a pass »”
Greeny—“ No, I haint got a pass.”
Conductor—“ Thunder and spikes! you don’t expect to travel on these cars for nothing, do you?”
Greeny—“ You advertise to take a fellow for nothing, anyhow.”	’	•
Conductor—u How so?”
Greeny — Why, down there in your orfice in Cincinnati you’ve got a great big sign stuck up in store-writing; it says, ‘Through to New York without change.’”
The conductor dropped his anchor and put that fellow ashore right by a big white post with some black letters on it which read “ C. 30 miles.”
Late Statistics of the Educational Establishments Directed by the Clergy in France.—The clergy of France has under its immediate charge the u education secondtire” or college classical education of 60,000 youths. Of these. 42,000 are educated by the secular clergy, and 18,000 by religious of various orders. 33,000 belong to 180 “petite seminaires” and 32,000 to 200 other ecclesiastical houses. 42,000 complete their studies, including philosophy; 12,000 continue their studies as far as the class of philosophy; 4,000 discontinue after the 3d or 2d Latin classes. These statistics made from the particular statistics of all the Bishoprics of France, do not.include several establishments of inferior grade likewise in tbe hands of the clergy. 4,000 priests are occupied in the work of education in France. ’	'
“Ike,” said Mrs. Partington, “how do astronomers measure the distance of the sun ?” “ Why,” replied the young hopeful, “ they guesses a quarter of the distance, and then multipliea by four.”
12
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Th® Scholastic.
Published every Week during Term Time, at NOTBE DAME UNIVERSITY..
Rev. M. B. Brown, C. S. C.,-----Editor.
ATI communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS: One year........................$2 00
One session (5 months).......... 1 25
Single copies (10c) of the publication can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
Persons wishing to receive The Scholastic regularly, will please send notice before our next issue, as we shall not, henceforth, send it, unless notified to do so. The number of copies printed will be limited—back numbers scarce. Hence, subscribe at once to secure the complete volume.
Ou Aiiamistration.
We had intended to give, last week, a report of the local changes made at Notre Dame at the close of the General Chapter, but were prevented by other duties which claimed our whole time and attention. We do so this week, on the principle “ Better late than never.”
The changes were as follows: Rev. W. Corby, who occupied the double office of Provincial and President of the University, having been chosen to superintend the opening of a new establishment in Watertown, Wisconsin, Very Rev. A. Granger was reinstalled as Provincial, and Rev. A. Lemonnier, for the past six years Vice-President and Director of Studies, was appointed President of the University. The office of Vice-President and Director of Studies was provided for by the appointment of Rev. M. B. Brown. Rev. P. W. Condon, was continued in the office of Prefect of Discipline, and also appointed to the important position of Professor of the Evidences of Christianity. Rev. Father Condon will be ably assisted in the maintenance of discipline by Bros. Alban, Norbert Joseph and James, in the Senior Department; Bros. Camillus, Paul and Cyril, in the Junior Department, and Bro. Emmanuel in the Minim Department.
But little change has been made in the teaching body of the University. The following, however, may be noticed here: . Rev. T. Vagnier, who formerly presided over the department of Chemistry and Physics, having been appointed chaplain to St Mary’s Academy, these important classes have been placed under the control of Rev. J. C. Carrier. Mr. J. Zahm, will also assist in this department. Messrs. T. O’Mahony and N. S. Mitchell, both graduates in the Scientific Course, will also assist in teaching some of the Preparatory Classes, while pursuing some of the higher studies of the University. Prof. C. A. B. Von Weller resumes the direction of the studio of Painting, after an absence of one year. Rev. J. A. O’Connell has been appointed to the chair of Philosophy. Prof. G. Van de Velde occupies the position of Prof, of Vocal Music and Leader of the Choir. Mr., J. H. Gillespie takes the leadership of the College Band,"with - Bro. Camillus as
Director. The remainder of the teaching corps is substantially the same as last year.
Judging from the harmony which reigns, and the unanimity of views and action manifested in every department, as well as from the earnestness with which all our students have entered upon their labors, we feel justified in predicting that the present year will be one of happiness and success to all, while we rejoice to see that the judgment of the Council who appointed the present administration is so universally approved not only in word but in deed. If union is strength, then Notre Dame is truly strong.
Guided by many years’ experience, the authorities of Notre Dame have decided to prohibit all that class of papers known as “illustrated.” Though some of this class are not really objectionable in themselves, still the general character of the matter which they contain is light, and tends to distract the student’s mind from his serious work. Hence the prohibition. The daily papers, though not forbidden, are yet discouraged; and as the reading of papers is permitted only on two days in the week, the taking of a daily would be rather unsatisfactory. All objectionable papers are, of course, strictly forbidden.
Creep Before Attempting to Walk.
In the ordinary course of nature all things attain the degree of perfection for which they were destined slowly and by a fixed law of progress.
The giant oak was at first but an insignificant plant, and gradually increased by the action of the elements which naturally contributed to its growth, till it became a majestic tree; the lordly palace was once but a disjointed mass of stones or bricks, and grew by the slow process of arranging those stones or bricks in their places, one by one, till there resulted the magnificent structure which now excites the admiration of all beholders;' man himself was once a helpless infant, and attained to man’s proportions only after years of gradual growth.
If this is true in the physical order, it is equally so in the mental. The intellectual faculties operate through the brain, and a healthy, vigorous action of these faculties requires not only a proper growth and maturity of the brain —which comes only by time—but also practice or the habit of thought, which is acquired only by long continued practice; for as the fingers of the musician require long training before they can obey promptly the will in the execution of a difficult piece of music, so the mental faculties require considerable training before they can act freely and vigorously in the process of thought.
As for the physical training of the musician, so for the mental training of the thinker,—the practice or exercise must be graded. The musician begins by playing the gamut or scale slowly, and by degrees, attempts pieces more difficult of execution ; so the thinker begins with the simplest rudiments of knowledge, and gradually extends the field of his labors till he finally soars into the highest regions of thought, and grapples with questions most difficult of solution.	'
His success, however, in the higher flights of intellect, will depend mainly on the thoroughness with-which he .has mastered the primary principles which underlie all
THE SCHOLASTIC.
IS
knowledge. Hence in schools and institutions of learning the labors of the student are graded with a view to a complete mastery of those principles, and the interest of every student requires that he should pass through the various grades of study, as laid down in such institutions in accordance with the dictates of long experience, and every attempt to deviate from such a course can only result in failure, and retard the progress of the overambitious
Let those of our readers, then, who are actually engaged in the noble work of cultivating their miuds, keep constantly in view the fact that their progress must be gradual—that they must creep for a while that they may walk with a firmer tread as they advance in their important undertaking.
i
Notes by the Way. '
The Choir has reorganized, with full attendance.
Prospects for a brilliant musical year have opened very favorably.	.
The Orchestra will be directed by Prof. Van de Velde, who will also conduct the Vocal Classes and the Choir.
Bro. Basil and Bro. Leopold have their time fully occupied with the Music pupils.
It is intended that Elementary Drawing shall be taught free to all students.
There is a praiseworthy disposition on the part of the students to make the best possible use of their time.
A splendid carriage-drive is about to be opened around the lake. Visitors should not fail to profit by this to see the beauties that lie behind the College buildings.
Rev. J. C. Carrier, C.S.C., has been appointed to the Classes of Chemistry and Natural Philosophy, with Mr.
. Zahm, C.S.C., as assistant.
Silence should be observed in the small rooms just at the head of the second and third staircases on the right side of the College.
Rev. Father Neyron will begin his course of Anatomy on the 1st of October. Students who intend to follow the course should report at once to the Director of Studies.	’
It should be remembered that no student can enter the Class of Book-keeping unless he is able to pass a satisfactory examination in Arithmetic as far as “ Interest ” inclusive.
Prof. L. G. Tong has been appointed to the chair of Law. The regular course will begin on the 1st of October. None but students having gone through a thorough English course will be allowed to begin the study of Law.
Mr. J. H. Gillespie has been appointed to the training and teaching of the Brass Band, with Bro. Camillus as Director. Rev. Father Lilly will also contribute the aid of his musical talents to the success of the N. D. C. B.
No wonder there are no homesick Juniors. Take a peep into their study-hall. The arrangement of the pictures, hanging baskets, et cetera bdla, speaks highly for the artistic hand that arranged them. .
All persons living on the upper stories of the house are earnestly requested not to throw anything on the roofs, or into the yards. Passers-byi are sometimes unpleasantly reminded that it hails. J ■	• • -	■
Many of the old students are returning, at which we rejoice, for we feel that
“ ’Tis sweet to meet and warmly greet The friends of other days.”
Prof. C. A. B. Von Weller has been engaged to preside over the Studio of Painting.- A large room, 40x45 feet, has been expressly set apart for the studio. Quite a large number of young artists are expected to enter the class.	-	■
Thus far all our students, with one or two exceptions, have manifested a most commendable spirit. They have cheerfully submitted to the direction of the Director of Studies in the regulation of their classes, and show a determination to work that is truly encouraging.
The Societies and Clubs have organized, and are devoting themselves earnestly to their several objects. The Band is under the Leadership of John H. Gillespie; its sonorous notes have already been heard. We hope to hear it often during the coming year.
Boll of Honor.
September 13, 1872.
At a meeting of the Faculty, held September 14th, it was decided to repeal Rule Sixteenth of the Regulations of the University, relating to the “ Table of Honor.” It was then resolved to publish in the columns of The Scholastic the names of all those students whose conduct during the preceding week had given entire satisfaction to the Officers, Prefects and Professors of the Institution. The Faculty were led to make this change by the fact that the increased number of students now attending at the University would render it impossible to mention in a public manner the names of many deserving young men more than once in four or five weeks were the number limited to those few chosen weekly to sit at the “ Table of Honor.” By the present arrangement every student deserving it will be mentioned each week in the list to be called the “Roll of Honor.” In accordance with the aforesaid resolution, the following list of names has been chosen from those students who were present last year, and who returned before the 7th of September:
SENIORS.
W. J. Clarke, J. E. Hogan,	J. B. Comer, T. F. Hansard,	J. C. Eisenman, E. Halpin,
C. M. Karst,	J. McGlynn,	D. E. Maloney,
P. O’Meara,	P. J. O’Connell,	J. M. Rourke,
H. N. Saylor,	S. Valdez,	T. P. White,
C. W. Walter,	H. W. Walker,	B. W. Drake,
E. G. Greaves,	W. J. Lucas, E. Morancy. JUNIORS.	P. J. Cooney,
F. Egan,	H. Enneking,	H. Nirdlinger,
A. Kleine,	0. Waterman,	W. Meyer,
V. McKinnon,	W. Breen,	F. McOsker,
J. Stubbs,	J. Quill,	J. Caren,
O. Tong,	D. O’Connell, J. McGrath.	S. Wise,
J. F. Edwards, Secretary.
Most of the Minims enjoyed their vacation so hugely that they have grown to be Juniors and now help to swell the ranks of that Department.

14
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Arrivals.
William Wallace, Temple Noel, Benjamin F. Roberts, Peter Frain, Timothy Fitzpatrick, Thomas John Culliton, William A. Schultheis, Eddie Raymond, Charles E. Wheeler, John E. Porter, Walter Kinzie, Max Basterasche, William H. Vestal, Louis Hibben, John Hoffman, Henry Hoffman, James McDermott, Joseph Rotinot, James EL Ward, Anthony Mooney, Thomas J. Dutidon, William Van’t Woud, Louis Van’t Woud, George Leon Gerew, Denis Tansy, Thomas E. Hopkins, F. P. Leffingwell, Mark Foote, Reuben Hutchings,
Milwaukee. Wisconsin. Paxton, Illinois.
Independence, Missouri. Lowell, Indiana.
Defiance, Ohio. Chicago, lilinois, Detroit, Michigan. Chicago, Illinois. Mechanicsville, Iowa. Louisville, Kentucky. Chicago, Illinois. New Brunswick.
Mount Summitt, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois.
Chicago, lilinois. Chicago, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois.
Green Bay, Wisconsin. Clarksburg, Michigan. Chicago, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois. Chicago, Illinois. Lowell, Indiana.
Louisville, Kentucky. Lyons, Iowa.
Burlington, Iowa. New York, New York.
Rersoual.
Rev. Father P. Lauth is on his way back from Germany, with seventeen companions bound for Notre Dame.
Rev. A. A. Brown, of Cincinnati, paid us a short visit last week. We were glad to see him looking so well.
Rev. P. H. Brown, of Youngstown, Ohio, paid us a short visit last week. We regret that his stay could not be longer, but pastoral duties called him home.
Hox. Wilt. Cumback, Lieut.-Governor of Indiana, honored us by a short call last week. He was accompanied by Hon. Lucius Hubbard and Mr. E. Egbert of South Bind.
Mr. R. H. McCarty, a graduate, of’70, paid us a flying visit last week on his way to Ann Arbor, where he is pursuing his medical studies. Success to the future physician.
Mr. J. F. McHugh, A. B., spent a few days with us last week. We.were delighted to see him looking so well, and wish him success in the vocation he has chosen. We hope he will call and see,us often.
We have seen 1 he wedding card of Mr. Henry C. Allen, a former student al Notre Dame, and congratulate him on his success in having secured the heart and hand of the amiable Miss Minnie Shrewsbury. We wish the young bride much joy, and both a long life of happiness.
We are pleased to hear, from our old friend J. A. O’Reilly, now attorney at law in Reading, Pa. He writes to a member of the Faculty:	'	‘	’
“ When I think of good old Notre Dame it seems to me that' ’ I must return and have a good look'at the grand old place. Never can I forget my Alma. UTaier; she has been a second home to me, and among her inmates to whom I must attribute my success, none deserves, as much .praise as yourself; and I feel lonesome when I think that I can never be an inmate and re-
..new those happy limes which I spent at Notre Dame. •	"
. “Hoping that you are in a splendid state of health, I remain -	’ -... ’ “Your sincere young friend; ‘‘
,	• ■ James A?0’Reiu.t.’’ .
Society Reports.'
The Holy Angels held their first regular meeting Sunday, September 15, 1872, at which the following officers were elected:
Director—Rev. A. Granger, C.S.C.
President—Mr. D. Hudson, C.S.C.
Honorary Vice President—Mr. M. Mahoney, C.S.C.
Vice-President—H. H. Hunt.
Treasurer—W. Meyers.
Secretary—W. Breen.
Librarian—J. Campbell.
Assistant Librarian—A. Kleine.	■	•
Censor—V. McKinnon.
.	W. Breen, Secretary.
Obituary.
It is with feelings of the most profound regret we are called upon to chronicle the death of an old and dear fellow-student, Mr. John J. Mulquin, who departed this life.on the 29th ult., and who, though he passed but a short time with us, won a high place in the memory of every student of Notre Dame. His manly qualities, gentlemanly-deportment and magnanimity of soul inspired respect and gained for him many and dear friends among the Professors and students of the University, who will receive the news of his death with the deepest feelings of sorrow and regret. Death regards neither rank nor station, age nor condition; the old and young are alike its victims. Yet when one is called from our midst who was about to set out on a career of usefulness, as was the case with our lamented friend, a deep feeling of solemn regret pervades our heart. And while we bow submissively to the will of Heaven, we say from the bottom of our hearts requiescat in pace for the repose of the soul of our dear friend whom it has pleased God to call from this “ vale of tears.”
, ■_	A Student.
Out College Exchanges.
The Annalist, published at Albion College. Mich., is received. It is one of the handsomest of our College papers.
The Santa Clara Owl is on our table. It contains several fine essays and choice selections. The Owl is al ways welcome.	.
The Yale Record, published at Yale College, is a very neat ’ little sheet, much like The Scholastic in size and form. Its typography is beautiful. .	' r'
The Schulblatt, published in St. Louis, comes regularly among our exchanges. Il is a neat monthly of thirty-two pages.	■	■	•	. , ............... -	"
We are glad to hear that the South Bend Weekly Union is receiving the support which it so richly deserves.
Our old friend the St. Joseph Valley Register comes to us regularlyj and is welcomed with new interest each week. -'
The South Bend Tribune is one of. our most welcome exchanges. It is ably edited and neatly printed.
Base-Ball and Class.—Base-ball has ceased to be the ■great topic .of conversation among the students while in the yard, and “.class’’.has taken-its place.- .'This certainly is no. retrograde movement	. ...
1

iz	.	THE SCHOLASTIC.					15	
	SAIHT MARY’S ACADEMY.			a	L.- Weinreich,	Sacramento City, California.	
				cc	C. Germain,	Chicago, Illinois.	
				cc	A. St.- Clair,	Chicago, Illinois.	
		Saint Mary s Academy, September 18, 1872.		cc	E. Crawford,	Dowagiac, Michigan.	
	From the large number of pupils now present, and the			cc	H. Newton,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	daily arrival of others, it is very certain that each depart-			cc	M. Martin,	Marshall, Michigan. ■	
	ment	of the school will be unusually full. There are		cc	A. Eby,	Roan, Indiana.	
	already one hundred		and thirty pupils enrolled in the	cc	K. Hossler,	Warsaw, Indiana.	
	Musical Conservatory.		The young ladies of the different	cc	S. Smithy	Chicago, Illinois.	
	departments seem determined to make this year pre-em-			cc	C. Smith,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	inent for the best pupils in point of diligence and deco-			cc	G. Crapser,	Lyons, Ohio.	
	rum.	The following list of arrivals closes with the en-		cc	L. James,	Kokomo, Indiana.	
	»	trances on the 18th:			cc	L. Harrison,	Kokomo, Indiana.	
	Miss	H. Kiel,	St. Louis, Missouri.	cc	M. Prince,	St. Paul, Minnesota.	
	<c	L. Niel,	St. Louis, Missouri.	cc	F. Kendall,	Winona, Minnesota.	
	IC	N. Gross,	Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.	cc	L. King,	Ravenna, Ohio.	
	«	M. A. Roberts,	Columbus, Ohio.	cc	B. Grace,	St. Paul, Minnesota.	
	II	K. Lloyd,	Muskegon, Michigan.	cc	K. Zell,	Peoria, Illinois.	
	IC	N. Lloyd,	Muskegon, Michigan.	cc	M. Cochrane,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	Cl	A. Lloyd,	Muskegon, Michigan.	cc	E. Ives,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	(C	F. Lloyd,	Muskegon, Michigan.	a	A. Monroe,	Chicago, Illinois.	
11	CC	E. Burney,	Toledo, Ohio.	cc	R. Conrad,	Warsaw, Indiana.	
II ■3	” IC	A. Burney,	Toledo, Ohio.	cc	M. Comer,	St. Paul, Minnesota..	
		M. Faxson,	Chicago, Illinois.	Cl	T-. Cronin,	Marshall, Michigan.	
	cc	M. Mooney,	Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.	cc	L. McKinnon,	Chicago, Illinois.	
L	CC	F.‘ E. Butters,	Chicago, Illinois.	cc	E. Wade,	New Carlisle, Indiana.	
	st	S. Lynch,	Chicago, Illinois.	cc	B. Wade,	New Carlisle, Indiana.	
	cc	M. Ware,	Chicago, Illinois.	cc	R. Woolman,	New Carlisle, Indiana.	
Hl	- (C	R. Devoto,	Cairo, Illinois.	cc	E. McAuliffe,	Chicago, Illinois.	
VI	cc	Monica Gall,	Nashville, Tennessee.	cc	M. Quill,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	cc	Mary Gall,	Nashville, Tennessee.	cc	D. Allen,	Chicago, Illinois.	
£	, cc	R. Manzanares,	. Pueblo, Colorado.	cc	L. Pfeiffer,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	, cc	J. Valdez,	Conejos, Colorado.	cc	B. Pfeiffer,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	cc	N. Vigil,	Conejos, Colorado.	cc	F. Rush,	Lakeville, Indiana.	
	cc	A. Green,	Chicago, Illinois.	cc	Lettie Ritchie,	Pinkneyville, Illinois.	
	cc	Agnes Green,	Chicago, Illinois.	cc	Lizzie Ritchie,	Pinkney ville, Illinois.	
I [	cc	M. Green,	Chicago, Illinois.	cc	J. Walsh, '	Chicago, Illinois.	
ll	Ct	M. Brown,	Cleveland, Ohio.	cc	M. Walsh,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	cc	M. Thompson,	Chicago, Illinois.	cc	A. Walsh,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	cc	E. Thompson,	Chicago, Illinois.	cc	L. Walsh,	Chicago, Illinois.	
ll	cc	K. Bolton,	Chicago, Illinois.	cc	J. Walker,	St. Paul, Minnesota.	
	<•	E. White,	Albany, New York.	cc	M. Dillon,	Notre Dame, Indiana.	
A	cc	M. White,	Albany, New York.	cc	A. Keeline,	Council Bluffs, Iowa.	
	cc	L. Daly,	Rochester, New York.	cc	N. Cox,	Chicago, Illinois.	
li	cc	J. Fanning,	Syracuse, New York.	cc	M. Kearney,	Kansas City, Missouri.	
ii)	cc	S. O’Malley,	Chicago, Illinois.	cc	J. Kearney,	Kansas City, Missouri.	-
i VS	a	L. B. Johnson,	Bloomington, Illinois.	cc	I. Hatch,	Elkhart, Indiana.	
1	cc	M. Lowery,	Bloomington, Illinois.	cc	K. Miller,	Richtou, Indiana.	
$	cc	A. Reid,	Titusville, Pennsylvania.	cc	H. Miller,	Richton, Indiana.	
M	cc	K. Young,	San Francisco, California.	cc	I. Reynolds,	Cassopolis, Michigan. ■	
	cc	A. T. Clarke,	Notre Dame, Indiana.	cc	B. Reynolds,	Cassopolis, Michigan.	
V II	cc	S. Chenoweth,	Chicago, Illinois.	cc	N. McMahon,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	cc	K. Finley,	Dixon, Illinois.	cc	M. Lasson,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	cc	J. Walton,	Ypsilanti, Michigan.	cc	A. Stockton,	St. Louis, Missouri.	
	cc	L. Dent,	Washington, D. C.	cc	M. Cobry,	St. Mary’s, Indiana.	
	cc	A. Tucker,	Sevastopol, Indiana.	cc	E. Stuart,	St. Mary’s, Indiana.	
1	cc	K. Hector,	Chicago, Illinois.	cc	L. West,	Council Bluffs, Iowa.	
1	cc	M. Reynolds,	Chicago, Illinois.	cc	M. Hepp,	Muskegon, Michigan.	
	cc	J. Conners,	St. Louis, Missouri.	cc	E. Plamondon,	Chicago, Illinois.	-
	cc	M. Wolff,	Chicago, Illinois.	cc	V. BaU,	Chicago, Illinois.	
	cc	M. Holcomb,	Chicago, Illinois.	cc	N. Ball,	Chicago, Illinois.	
_	cc	A. Paulsen,	Chicago, Illinois.	cc	K. Haymond,	St. Paul, Minnesota.	
	cc	M. Dillon,	St. Louis, Missouri.	cc	G. Kelly,	St. Paul, Minnesota.	
	cc	E. Richardson/	Chicago, Illinois.	cc	A. Shea,	Milwaukee, Wisconsin.	
16
THE SCHOLASTIC.;
cc	L. Black,	Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
cc	M. E. Roberts,	St. Paul, Minnesota.
<c	K. Haney,	Sorinville, Indiana.
•	a	A. Hambleton,	Mound City, Illinois.
tt	B. Crowley,	Cairo, Illinois.
Ct	N. O’Meara,	Cincinnati, Ohio.
<c	M. R. Ewing,	Lancaster, Ohio.
Ct	A. Ewing,	Lancaster, Ohio.
<c	M. A Brown,	Cleveland, Ohio.
Ct	E. Howell,	Seneca, Illinois.
° «	L. Hull, .	Seneca, Illinois.
<1	K. Schmidt,	Chicago, Illinois.
Ct	I. Wilder,	Chicago, Illinois.
-	CC	C. Creveling,	St. Louis, Missouri.
cc	J. Tucker,	-	Lima, Ohio.
cc	A Gollhardt,	Chicago, Illinois.
CC	E. Jackson,	Chicago, Dlinois.
CC	L. Schuerle,	Chicago, Illinois.
CC	D. Simmonds,	Hinsdale, Illinois.
CC	M. Nash,	Rockford, Illinois,
CC	D. Green,	Topeka, Kansas.
CC	M. Quan,	Chicago, Illinois.
CC	I. Quan,	Chicago, Illinois.
>	CC	E. Lappin,	Seneca, Kansas.	.
CC	A Clarke,	Chicago, Illinois.
CC	M. Wicker,	Chicago, Illinois.
CC	A Noel,	Paxton, Illinois.
CC	M. Farnum,	Chicago, Dlinois.
CC	M. DeLong,	May wood, Dlinois.
CC	B. Hossler,	Warsaw, Indiana.
Ct	E. Hossler,	Warsaw, Indiana.
CC	E. Quinlan,	Cleveland, Ohio.
CC	L. Beckman,	Cleveland, Ohio.
CC	J. Noonan,	Cleveland, Ohio.
CC	M. Kelly,	Evanston, Dlinois.
CC	M. Booth,	Muskegon, Michigan.
CC	E. Parker,	Muskegon, Michigan.
CC	E. Boyce,	Muskegon, Michgian.
CC	L. Tinsley,	Springfield, Illinois.
CC	M. Letourneau,	Chicago, Dlinois.
CC	B. White,	New Carlisle, Indiana.
CC	J. Haney,	’	Sorinville, Indiana.
CC	A. Mast,	Springfield, Ohio.
CC	R. Klar,	Chicago, Dlinois.
CC	M. Booth,	Muskegon, Michigan.
CC	HL McGuire,	Cleveland, Ohio.
CC	M. Roberts,	Independence, Missouri.
CC	S. Shipley,	Defiance, Ohio.
CC	M. Hughes,	Chicago, Dlinois.
<c	C. Hughes,	Chicago, Dlinois.
CC	C. Bishling,	Francisville, Indiana.
CC	M. Schley,	McFarlane, Wisconsin.
TABLE OF HONOR—SENIOR DEPARTMENT. -
September, 15.—Misses K. Zell, M. Cochrane, A Shea, EL Haymond, L. King, J. Walker, L. Kiel, M. Kearney, I. Reynolds, IL Brown, R. Spiers, G. Crapser.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
Graduating Class.—Misses K. Zell, M. Cochrane, M Lasson, A Shea, K. Haymond, B. Crowley, L. King, J. Walker. -
First Senior.—Misses L. Kiel, M. Kearney, I. Reynolds, R. Devoto, M. Brown, R. Spiers, G. Crapser, M. Comer, L; Black.	.	*
Second Senior.—I. Kearney, M. Quan. B. Reynolds, L. Daly, B. Grace, K. Finley.
Third Senior.—Misses C. Creveling, N. Ball, L. James, E. White, J. Fanning, A. Clarke, L. Weinreich.
First Preparatory.—Misses A. Hambleton, R. Woolman, L. Pfeeffer, K. Miller, E. Crawford, F. Rush, M. Quill, N. McAuliffe, E. Ives, E. Quinlan.
Second Preparatory.—Misses M. Holcomb, H. Newton, A Eby, J. Connors, S. Smith, S. Chenoweth, I. Hatch.
Third Preparatory.—Misses J. Valdez, R. Manzanares, N. McMahon, A. Monroe, A. Tucker, M. Lyons, H. Miller.
Salmagnindi.
Old maids are fond of pairs, but cannot bear any reference to dates.	.
A Swedish dictionary which has been eighty-six years in preparation has just got through the letter A, at a cost of $50,000.	.	■
Hearth and Home is responsible for the statement proving a fine musical ear in mosquitoes, that they sing “ Oft in the stilly night.”	.
Milk sells at one cent per quart at Faribault, Minn., which price, says a local authority, will not pay for the wear and tear of a cow’s tail in switching flies.
A school-boy in a composition on the Horse describes that animal as being “ square and having a leg at each corner.”	.
“Say, stranger! you don’t know of nobody that don’t want to hire nobody to do nothing, do you?” was the inquiry of a young man from the country in search of employment.	.
The poet Longfellow on one occasion was at a dinnerparty at which Mr. Nicholas Long worth, was also present. Some one remarked to Mr. Longfellow that his name and that of Mr. Longworth’s started out alike, but made a very dissimilar ending. “ Yes,” replied the poet, “ and it affords only another proof, I am afraid, that worth makes the man, the want of it the fellow.”
A Scotch Definition of “Nothing.”—At Banchory in Scotland, lately, the parish schoolmaster,' out of curiosity, put the question to the scholars, “ What is nothing ?” A pause ensued until an urchin whose proclivities for turning a penny were well-known among his schoolfellows, got up and replied, “ It’s when a man asks you to baud his horse and just says thank ye.” The answer has since earned considerable notoriety for the youngster.
1
Advertise in The Scholastic.
We have concluded to take a limited number of choice advertisements this year, should our business friends conclude to patronize us in this department.	•
This arrangement, however, will not interfere with the reading matter, as we propose printing the advertisements on a separate sheet, to serve as a cover to the present Scholastic. This will be done as soon as a sufficient number of advertisements are secured.
ADVERTISING BATES.
1 page.................§150	। column..............S 30
1 column................ 80	% column .......-..... 18
column............... 50	11-16 column..........-.. 10 ■
Advertisements for a shorter time than one year, at~proportionate
rates. Address Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana. ~ - .