Notre Dame Scholastic.
Il
Disce quasi semper vieturus; vivo quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 16, 1878.	Number 25.
Sonnet.
Upon a rose-tree bending o’er a river A bird from spring to summer gaily sang;
r	For love of its sweet friend, the rose, for ever
Its beating heart with happy music rang, In sunshine warm and moonlight by the shore, Whose waves afar its voice melodious bore, Blent with its own. But when, alas! the sere Grey autumn came, withering those blooms so dear,’ Still full of love but full of sadness too, Changed the sweet song as changed the rose’s hue,
.	Mourning each day some rich leaf disappear
j	Until the last had dropped into the stream,
j	Anguished by wintry breezes blowing keen.
.	Then, on the bough forlorn, mute as a dream,
?	Awhile the poor bird clung, and soon was seen no more.
—Dublin University Sfayazine.
Pius IX.
!	The death of our Holy Father Pope Pius IX, which took
’ place on the 7th of this month, has filled the whole Church with grief. In dur editorial columns we speak of the char-:• acter of the great and good Pope; here it remains for us to give a short sketch of his wonderful life and labors.
John Mary Mastai-Ferretti was the son of Count Jerome ' Mastai-Ferretti, of Sinigaglia, in the duchy of Urbino, near Ancona, one of the Papal States. The Pope deceased was born at that place on the 13th of May, 1792. The surname ' of the Pope’s family was originally Mastai, and a union between the last representative of the illustrious house of Ferretti and another of their own blood enabled the Counts Mastai to blend the two names, and the family became known as Mastai-Ferretti.
ft The future Pope Pius IX, when a boy of twelve years of age, was put to school at the College of Vol terra, in Tuscany. The gentleness of his disposition and the gifts of his mind and person soon won for him the esteem of all his youthful associates, while his progress in scholarship was so rapid that his acquisitions at an early age challenged the attention and excited the admiration of the visiting professors.
At this college he passed some years, finally emerging from it possessed of a strikingly handsome person and a richly-cultured mind. Some of his relatives wished him to adoptt the vocation of the law, but his father desired for him the career of arms. He visited Rome, where he was enabled to gratify his father’s wish to commence life as a soldier, and upon the reconstruction of the Noble Guard ' of Pius VII he was granted admission to that historic corps. But in his case the spiritual power of the crucifix was to supersede the prowess of the sword, even though it
was devoted to the banner of the Cross. Just before entering the Guard he was taken sick with epileptic fits, and the illness threatened to be severe and even fatal. His mother, the Countess Mastai appealed to the Blessed Virgin, night and day, with all the tender supplication and fervent faith that could lend power to the prayers of an agonized mother to save the life of her son. Though the illness had baffled the skill of his medical attendants the mother’s prayer was heard and the young Count soon recovered his health, and while yet weak from the effects of his sickness he determined that his future life should be solely devoted to God and to His Church; and renouncing all the tempting advantages and delightful pleasures of his high and wealthy position, he shunned forever the gayeties of the world and proceeded to study for Holy Orders in the Seminary of St. Apollinaris. He received minor Orders on the 5th of January, 1817, when 25 years of age; subdeaconship on the 20 th of December, 1818; deacouship on the 6 th of March, 1819, and was ordained priest on Holy Saturday of the same year, at the hands of Monsignor Caprano. His first Mass was celebrated on the 10th of April, 1819. His first work as a priest was passed in comparative obscurity at Rome, though he was even then becoming noted for his thorough devotion to the sick and the indigent. He visited the hospitals, prisons, and orphanages, and with his own hands nursed the sick and administered to the necessities of the distressed. His practical benevolence and tender care of the sick have always been a leading characteristic of the late Pope, while he had always been munificent, and, indeed, lavish, in his private charities.
The young priest was sent by Pius VU to Chili as assistant to Monsignor Muzi, who was Vicar Apostolic to that young Government in 1823. They spent two years of fatigue and danger in this journey, visiting the churches of Chili, Peru, and Colombia, and crossing the continent in bullock carts—a ride which took them two months. Returning to Rome in 1825, Father Mastai was promoted to the prelacy, and placed at the head of the great Hospital of St. Michael, founded two centuries ago by Innocent X. When Monsignor Mastai assumed the presidency of this vast institution it was burdened with debt and on the verge of bankruptcy. He reorganized every department of the hospital, repaired its dilapidated revenues, extended the range of its charities, and in less than two years brought order out of confusion, by the sacrifice, however, of his own patrimony.
Not long after the accession of Gregory X VI, Mastai-Fer-retti was made Archbishop of Spoleto. Gregory XVI, in 1832, transferred him to the see of Imola in the Romagna, and he devoted himself to the manifold duties of this charge with unrelenting vigor and the most careful attention. In 1833 he was Nuncio at Naples. While there tjie
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
place suffered terribly from a scourge of cholera. The Archbishop made the needs of the sick people his own personal care, and such was his practical interest in and pains'' taking attention to them that his name is mentioned with blessings and gratitude to-day by people who remember his devoted services. .
His see of Imola received his most vigilant attention, and he was never weary in well-doing for his people. His charities he carried to such an extreme that he frequently completely impoverished himself. On one occasion, having no money with him, he told an applicant for assistance to take some of the silverware off his table and pawn it, which the mendicant did at once.	•
While assiduously engaged in the duties of his charge, s he was nominated Cardinal on the 23d of December, 1836, and was proclaimed in consistory on the 14th of December, 1840. His purely pastoral duties absorbed all of his time up to the date of Pope Gregory XVIth’s death, when Cardinal Mastai-Ferretti was elected to the papal throne.
When the new Pope ascended the throne it was at a very dangerous time. Home was upon the verge of anarchy, and the whole of Italy ripe for revolution. The Pope was fair and conciliatory, even generous to the liberal party, but he would not entertain for a moment any suggestion that should look towards curtailing one iota the legitimate and proper privileges and prerogatives of the Holy Church.
One of his first acts after ascending the throne was to proclaim a general amnesty for all political offenses. The debts of the indigent and the sick in prisons and hospitals were paid, and thousands were devoted to sustaining the the various charities of the city. The Pope was anxious for reforms, and willing to make concessions, but could not abrogate or ignore one jot or tittle of the sacred and time-honored privileges of the Church. He called a council composed of representatives from the provinces, but no good resulted after all, for instead of making moderate demands and co-operating with the Holy Father to secure the welfare of the people, the parliament sought to override all the objections of the Pope by a show of parliamentary authority. For a time the Pope was exceedingly popular with the masses, because he had done so much for them in the way of charities and gifts. For a short time after his accession it was a perpetual gala day in Rome, and the people, if thoughtless, nevertheless appeared to be happy. But they were capricious, and in the hands of vicious agitators. Mazzini and his co-conspira-tors had by this time set all Italy in a blaze, and the Pope found that for the safety of the Church he would be compelled to take a reactionary course. From this time his personal popularity waned. The restless, ignorant mob could not understand that it was impossible for the Pontifical Government to be anything else than of an absolute and patriarchal character. The Pope’s sincere endeavors to promote constitutional liberty at last brought him into collision with the revolutionary party, which insisted upon popular despotism. This the great head of the Church despised, and would by no means submit to, and, to aid him in taking a middle course, he called to his aid the services of an eminent statesman, the Count Pelegrino Rossi, as Chief Minister. Rossi was a moderate liberal, and was himself in favor of many popular reforms. He took hold of the Papal Government on the 16th of August, 1848, and on the 15th of November of the same year he
was brutally assassinated on the steps of the Cancellaria, „ or parliament house.
As for the Pope, wise, gentle, and winning as he was, he could not still the storm. There was but one course	।
left open to the outraged sovereign, and that was flight.
This he effected in the dress of an ordinary priest, under	J
the escort of the Count Spaur, Minister of the King of	I
Bavaria. He took refuge in Gaeta, aud for seventeen '	|
months he partook of the hospitality of the King of Naples.	|
Immediately upon the Pope’s arrival at Gaeta he sent an	|
ordinance to Rome protesting against the junta of the	’■I
state appointed to supersede his sovereignty and pronouncing its actions null and void. This protest the junta treated with disrespect, and when published it was torn	j
down from the walls of Rome and trampled upon.
Mazzini, the centre figure of the insurrection, now rose	'
into eminence, and the Eternal City became the attraction for all the lawless and the refuse of Italian society. In	i
the mean time, however, the Pope had been invited by his	j
rebellious subjects to return, but he mistrusted their sin-	®
cerity, and would not do so. Things continued in this	»
insurrectionary shape until the 18th of February, 1849. Then His Holiness appealed to the great Catholic powers and demanded their armed assistance. Europe had become shocked at the atrocities committed under the triumvirs, Mazzini, Armanelli, and Safli, and on the 25th of April, 1849, the French squadron, on board of which was Gen. Oudinot’s expeditionary army, anchored before Civta Vecchia. A desperate resistance was made by the besieged, but it proved of no avail against the power of the French	•
arms. On the 2d of July Gen. Oudinot entered Rime with his army, and the keys of the liberated city were laid at the feet of the Sovereign Pontff, who upon the 14th of April, 1850, re-entered Rome amid the tumultuous acclamations of his people.
Among the most notable events of the lengthy pontificate of Pius IX may be mentioned the policital amnesty of July 16,1846; the condemnation of the principle of mixed education in the queen’s colleges in Ireland; his bill re-establishing the Catholic hierarchy in England in 1850; the promulgation of the dogma of the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Dec. 8, 1854; the Encyclical Letter of Dec. 8,1864, directed against many . flagrant evils of the times; the Brief in the same year to the Congress of Munich, setting forth and specifying with great distinctness the differences existing between scientific discovery and the grounds of religious faith. He has thrice summoned the Bishops to Rome, the last time being upon the occasion of the General Council convoked at the Vatican, the nineteenth General Council of the Church, called in the twenty-third and convened in the twentyfourth year of His Holiness Pius IXth’s pontificate. At this great Council the dogma of Papal Infallibility was -defined and affirmed.
Pius IX has canonized many saints, has celebrated the Eighteenth Centenary of the martyrdom of the Princes of the Apostles, and has increased to a very large number the episcopacy throughout the world. In 1857 he purchased the ancient Convent of Umilta for §42,000, for the purpose of turning it into a college for the American clergy.* This became the American College at Rome, whence so many of our clergy , have received their higher theological and doctrinal education. The Pope directed that it should be . governed by a rector appointed by him from three candi-	4
dates, recomended by the Bishops of the Church in the 'j
THE NOTRE, DAME SCHOLASTIC.	387
United States. Nor must be forgotten the bestowal of .an American Cardinalate and the erection of nearly half a dozen additional archdioceses as ample proof of the strong and loving feeling the Holy Father had towards the American Church. One of the last acts of Pius the-Great was the re-establishment of the Scotch hierarchy.
Pope Pius IX goes to his grave amidst the blessings and gratitude of the whole world, as a Pontiff whose career has been amongst the most remarkable of the successors of of St. Peter. He was a true and close follower of our sr Lord’s gentleness and humility, full of zeal, fortitude and piety. To any one desirous of reading fully the life of our late Holy Father we would recommend the excellent work of Father Brennan, published by the Benziger Brothers.
The Resumption Argument. II.
BY JOHN G. EWING. ,
The first portion of Mr.'Garfield’s speech, which has been considered, treats almost exclusively of the doctrine of forced resumption, and is occupied with a defense of that doctrine. The second part treats of the theory of equalization? This theory it is that finds general favor among Western Republicans. He now defends the law as a practical effort not to destroy the greenback, but to bring it up and make it equal to gold, on and after Jan. 1,1879.
But let us quote Mr. Garfield’s own words. “We do not propose to destroy the greenback. The law of Resumption preserves the volume at §300,000,000, and makes it equal and convertible into coin. Although I do not believe in the greenbacks as a permanent currency, yet I am willing to allow them to remain in circulation to the amount of §300,000,000, as long as the wants of trade show manifestly that they are needed. Is that contraction ? The law is not entirely free from ambiguity, yet this, Secretary Sherman says, is his interpretation of it.” This construction of the Act is the one generally adopted by Western Republicans, and it finds its most able advocate and defender in Senator Matthews. By a defense of it, does Mr. Garfield seek to draw the support of such men as he to the Act? As it stands, it appears most wonderfully like an inflation theory. To stamp a piece of paper and say that it shall always be equal to gold in value, and to maintain this statement in the face of the changes of trade, is the furthest limit of inflation. Allow, in the first place, that this interpretation of the Act is correct, and consider how it can be executed. No brain ever devised a scheme of convertible paper currency that will stand unless by absolute convertibility at all times and all places. If this convertibility fails, the whole scheme fails, and gold goes where it is wanted. Furthermore, the belief in this convertibility must be universal and unshaken. How, now, will the Government procure coin to render our currency convertible? to keep afloat 300,000,000 of greenbacks ? And how much coin will be necessary? Or is it thought that men, knowing the Government has not the coin in its vaults, will believe that it can pay it anyhow, if they want it, and therefore will not offer the greenback for conversion? To render a convertible currency sound and trustworthy, the amount of coin should be larger than the amount of paper afloat No nation ever attempted it on less without failure. We must have an amount of coin greater than oqr paper,
which, says Mr. Garfield, shall be §300,000,000. Where shall we procure the coin? In 1860, we had §285,000,000 of gold and silver, and since we have produced 1,007 millions of gold and 255 millions of silver, about one half of which, or 631 millions, has been coined. Where has it gone to? It has gone abroad to pay our debts. Over one half of our National debt is held abroad, and the interest on our other deb’s there held is greater thanthat on our National debt. Add to this, our expenses for shipping, done by foreign vessels, and for foreign travel, and we must pay abroad yearly, in coin or equivalent, from 180 to 250 millions. We pay first by shipping the bullion and coin. From 1860 to 1876 we shipped 1014 millions more than we received. The balance we have payed in part by the balance of trade being occasionally in our favor; but/ almost wholly, by contracting new debts. In 1860 we had 285 millions of coin, and could barely keep afloat 215 millions of paper; in 1878 we have 165 millions of coin, and with it, says Mr. Garfield, we shall keep afloat 300 millions of paper. And we must do this with our coin drain constantly increasing. If the Act be as Secretary Sherman states that it is, we could but look on it as a specimen of superlative folly on the part of our legislators. But it cannot be so interpreted, and has not been so by our Secretaries. If, after the Secretary has provided the gold for redemption of the greenback, and has redeemed it, he may reissue it, and then be compelled again to buy gold and again to redeem, and so act whenever the greenback were presented, where would be the end of our indebtedness? It would be one of the grandest pieces of folly imaginable. Secretary Sherman’s opinion is based on Section 3579 of the Revised Statutes, which reads as follows : “ When any United States notes are returned to the Treasury, they may be reissued.” Returned for payment of the public dues; not redeemed for payment of a public debt, which payment involves destruction of the evidence of the debt. Secretaries Bristow and Morrill both declared our Government was pledged to final redemption and removal from the currency of the legal-tender notes; and the action with regard to the fractional currency retired under the same law, shows this to be the true construction. The currency was destroyed, and not reissued. The law means naught but destruction of the greenback, and the assertion that the Government will redeem the greenback with gold, of which it can procure no more than fifty millions after three years of preparation, and then reissue it, to be again redeemed in gold, is either madness or blindness on the part of its affirmers. It can be characterized as nothing else. As said a noted opponent of Mr. Garfield in tbe House debate, “ Our legislators slavishly borrowed this scheme from British statute-books, while shutting their eyes to every lesson its history taught the world. They are blind to the fact that, while resumption was possible in England, it is wholly impossible here. When she attempted resumption the paper money to which her values were adjusted was about §232,000,000; ours, §733,000,000. She had far mofe gold in the country than we have. All the world owed her; we owe all the world. The precious metals flowed to her from every land; they flow out from us at every port. With her small volume of paper money, her comparatively large accumulation of coin, her supreme command as the creditor, the merchant, and manufacturer of the world, resumption might well have seemed practicable to her statesmen. With our large volume of paper money, our petty and diminishing

388
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
supply of coin, in our helpless situation as the financial slave of the world, unable either to get or keep coin as the foundation of a redeemable paper currency, the attempt at forced resumption is theory or craft run mad.”
Turning from defence of the theory, Mr. Garfield next examines the means provided for Resumption, which he enumerates as follows: a surplus of gold in the Treasury of §66,000,000, to which an addition is made monthly of §5,000,000; a surplus revenue of §35,000,-“ 000; a balance of trade in our favor; and a revival of business throughout the country. For the revival of business, Mr. Garfield might have exhibited the list of bankruptcies in New York for December, 89 cases; Assets, §4,118,777; Liabilities, §7,714,391; over-production no doubt he would attribute as the cause. As to the balance of trade helping Resumption—in 1876 we shipped abroad, according to the Bureau of Statistics, forty-one millions more than we received; and in 1877, sixteen millions. In what did the favorable balance of trade in the last year help us ? In the last three years 129 millions more have gone abroad than we imported, and yet during that time we have striven to keep our coin. According to the Secretary of the Treasury, on Oct. 31,1877, we had in the Treasury §57,436,071, from which subtracting accruing interest, we have left §32,545,978, available for resumption after three years of pre paration. With no stock of the precious metals on which to draw, with our out-going drain of coin to pay our debtinterest, we have less than fifty millions of coin with which to redeem or keep afloat three hundred millions of paper.	,
Mr. Garfield has defended the Act as being a destruction • of the greenback currency, and as being a retention of it to the amount of 300 millions, and now his last argument is brought forward. He says: “Gentlemen fear that if the Act is enforced, greenbacks will be presented by the people and gold demanded. But they will not do so. The greenback will not be presented,” and therefore, as a necessary consequence we shall not have the resumption, for which Mr. Garfield has so eloquently pleaded. In the first place can the Government take the risk of the greenback not being presented? Bylaw it is now compelled to collect in its vaults gold to redeem every greenback dollar outstanding. There is no choice, but to make the debt, and call in the greenback. The people, it is true, will not present the greenback, but the people will have naught to do iu the matter. It will be carried out as has been the rest of our financial policy. The holders of gold will present the greenback for redemption and destruction as fast as the gold can be paid over the counters of the Treasury. It will be but a grand gold speculation for the holders of gold. Secretary Sherman says he can resume, and his idea is about as follows: He will limit the resumption to §2,000,000 per day, and contract with a chosen syndicate to furnish him daily §2,000,000 in gold for gold bonds. The syndicate will then present §2,000,009 of greenbacks for redemption, and procure the gold. The gold would flow* from the markets of Europe and America, to the Treasury, throughout the syndicate, and back again. It would but fund the greenback as far as possible in gold bonds. The greenbacks would be destroyed as far as possible, and the result would be what? A gold currency? Will any sane man pretend that we can keep the gold with the bank demand for it, and the Governments of all Europe struggling to obtain it as a foundation for their currency and debt ? We cannot. It will go abroad as does our gold at present, and we shall but
have added to our debt to resume, and then be compelled either to fall back on bank issue nominally redeemable, with all its defects, or on the greenback as a second resort. We would destroy our greenback, contract an immense coin debt, and produce a greater drain of gold from out our country. In the future we would have in all likelihood a reissuance of the greenback, which then cannot be redeemed without greater disaster to the nation. The enforcement of the Resumption Act would end in a greenback currency, as evil, if not more so, than Mr. Garfield paints our present one to be.
The sanctity of the public faith does not require the retirement of the greenback, for it was issued to be redeemed only when the business interests of the public might require it The material prosperity, both present and future, of our country, far from requiring the withdrawal of the greenback, demand its retainance as the best currency our nation ever had. Mr. Garfield says the Act makes the greenback better every day. “Repeal the Act and you make it worse. In the name of every man who wants his own .when he has earned it, I demand that we do not make the wages of the poor man to shrivel in his hands after he has earned them.” Which is the better, to restore to the laborer his work by which he earns his daily bread, and yet mayhaps lower a little, as Mr. Garfield says, the value of his wages, or to deprive him of the value of his labor until we can make “ his dollar and that of the rich one and the same.” The latter is starving a man whom, you say, is injured by his food, in order that you may begin his life anew. Allow that the issuance of our paper currency was injurious, it is doubly injurious to attempt resumption when you are unable. The greenback irredeemable, is better for the poor man than bank issue but nominally redeemable. The gold in our day, and in pur country,-it is impossible that he should have. Look at New York city, where the failures for December were 89 cases; assets, four millions; liabilities eight millions; for January, 129 cases; liabilities, over seven millions; assets, two millions five hundred thousand. Let Mr. Garfield plead for the poor men there thrown out of employment, and he will have a subject worthy of his ready words. He ridiculed the idea of more money being wanted, and yet fails to point out any cause for such unprecedented distress. The laborer and the business man can always be found united against Mr. Garfield’s theories.
Looking over the effort of Mr. Garfield to defend the Act, we will find three prominent statements, which form the three lines of argument of. the resumptionists. The first is the idea of forced resumption and of payment in gold. That we can and shall thus act, is the evident meaning placed on the law by those commissioned to enforce it. The second, that the Act but brings up the greenback and makes it equal always and everywhere to gold,' and keeping its volume always at §300,000,000. It is the idea of equalization with a fixed volume of currency, and is adopted by the Western Republicans. Its all-sufficient answer is the fact that it would be a counterpart to the old bank issue. The third and the last idea is that we shall resume, and yet, as the people will not present the greenbacks for redemption, we cannot retain them and therefore will not resume. The currency in 1875, was §733,000,000; in 1878, §658,000,000. And this contraction before Resumption sets in. Fortunately for common sense in our land, but few can see the force of this weighty argument. The first idea is madness for the nation to follow;
THE HOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the second, folly; and the third, a reflection on common sense and reason; and on national honor.
Scientific Notes.
—Father Secchi, the astronomer, has made the discovery of a law by which a high barometrical pressure in England is sure to reach Italy in two days.
—The American Geographical Society, which was incorporated in 1852, has 1,750 fellows, and possesses a library of about 10,000 volumes and a large collection of maps.
—At a recent exhibition of the Columbarian Society, in England, above 800 birds were entered, forming one of the best displays ever made in the country. Fine specimens of a long list of varieties were shown, and the carrier pigeons were allowed to demonstrate their powers by a flight to their respective homes.
—Gen. D. Seager has been engaged for above four years in surveying the northwest coast of Africa, especially in the unknown region called Sedee Hascham. His object has been to discover the shortest and easiest route to Timbuktu, and this is now nearly accomplished. Some of his companions have twice penetrated to the place, and the General is preparing a map of the surrounding country.
—At a late meeting of the London Linntean Society, Mr. Worthington C. Smith stated that, in a specimen of Boletus subtomentosus, a species of mushroom, there are 17,000 pores or tubes. Each pore, when cut across, shows 2,000 cells on the surface. The number of surface-cells on the under side of a specimen is 36,000,000. The cells in an entire specimen are calculated to be 62,500,000,000, and the entire number of spores produced by the same specimen 5,000,000,000.
—The Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society give the result of a long series of experiments conducted by Er. Haynes to test the action of nicotine as a counteractive of strychnia. Dogs, cats, rabbits, and rats were submitted to the experiment, which led to the conclusions that strychnia and nicotina are in no degree antagonistic poisons, but that each increases the convulsive action of the other, and both cause death by paralyzing the respiratory organs,—possibly in different ways, b.ut with the same result.
—Some facts have been recently added by a Spanish naturalist to the knowledge previously given us by Darwin of the mode of growth of the batrachian from Chili named Rbinoderma Darwinii. The males are furnished with a broodsac, developed as a pouch from the throat, and extending over the greater part of the ventral surface. In this pouch, in numbers of individuals, living tadpoles were found by the observer, measuring about 14 mm. How these tadpoles are first developed and nourished, is not yet known.
—In order to test whether there actually is, as was supposed, a real connection between the Danube and the Aach, a solution of phthalein of resorein was introduced into the former at Emmendingen, and about two or three days after the bright green fluorescence of the solution was seen in the latter. The Upper Danube thus sends part of its waters into the German Ocean as -well as into the Black Sea. There must be a subterranean channel through the five miles of limestone which separates the apparent source of the Aach from the Danube.
—Judge Jeffreys when on the bench told an old fellow with a long beard that he supposed he had a conscience as long as his beard. The old man replied, “ If you measure conscience by beards your lordship has none at all.”
—“ Walking,” says Mr. Wickins, “ one day with Dr. Johnson in my garden at Lichfield, we entered into a small meandering shrubbery, whose ‘ vista not lengthened to the sight,’ gave promise of a larger extent. I observed he might, perhaps, conceive that he was entering an extensive labyrinth, but that it would prove a deception, though I hoped not an unpardonable one.” “Sir,” said he, “don’t tell me of a deception; a lie, sir, is a lie, whether it be a lie to the eye or a lie to the ear.”
Art, Music and Literature.
—A history of New Jersey, by John O. Rium, is shortly to be published.
—A. life of Gen. Albert Sidney Johnston, by his son, will be published soon.
—Wm. Morris, who is devoting himself rather more to household art than to poetry, recently delivered before the Trades’ Guild of London a comprehensive lecture on “ The Decorative Arts.”
—An abridgment of Adam Smith’s “Wealth of Nations,” by Prof. Stanley Jevons, is in preparation. The volume, intended for the use of students, will contain a large amount of original matter in the shape of notes. •
—The Ecole des Beaux Arts at Paris has established a gallery of plaster-casts, which is intended to include models of all the known statues of the antique Greek, and Roman, aud Medieval schools of sculpture. Munich has imitated this excellent example, and now the question is being agitated of founding a similar gallery in London.
—S. C. Griggs & Co. will publish, early in March, anew work entitled “Between the Gates,” by Benjamin F. Taylor, author of “The World on Wheels.” The same firm have in preparation an entirely new edition, from new plates, of Dr. Boise’s First Six Books of Homer’s Iliad, with references to the leading Grammars.
—The literary executors of Thiers are reported to be actively at work on his papers. He has left a complete work on “ the financial negotiations concluded with Germany as to the payment of the indemnity of the war, and the arrangements made with bankers, etc., to conclude the business; fragments relating many political events of the time of Louis Philippe; and the history of certain episodes in the lime of his own Presidency.”
—The announcement that the publishing houses of James R. Osgood & Co. and Hurd & Houghton have been united, and will be known henceforth as Houghton, Osgood & Co., will be received with much interest in all literary and bookselling circles. The new firm will print the works of a most extensive and celebrated array of both English and American authors, while among its periodical publications are the Atlantic Monthly, the Law Reporter, the Medical and Surgical Journal, and the American Architect.
—A complete collection of the works of the English engraver, Mr. Samuel Cousins, R. A., is now on exhibition in London. The catalogue embraces 182 examples, representing about sixty artists. His first work (1826), the “ Lady Acland and Children,” after Sir Thomas Lawrence, is one of his masterpieces, and gave him immediate repute. Mr. Cousins was born in Exeter, in 1801, and showed a talent for drawing at the early age of 9. He studied engraving under Samuel Reynolds, and was elected A. R. A. in 1838, and R. A. in 1855.
—A volume of twenty-five etchings after designs by Eugene Fromentin has been recently published in Paris. A biography of the painter precedes his designs. Fromentin was born in the hamlet of Saint-Maurice, in the neighborhood of Rochelle, France, in 1820, and returned to his native place to die in 1876. He will be remembered as a vivid painter of Arab life in the deserts of Africa and Asia. He was also an author, and published a novel called “Dominique,” and two volumes of travels, “Ete dans le Sahara,” and “ L’Annee dans le Sahel.”
—The Unita Gattolica, in several of its numbers, has published letters of many of the principal Catholic booksellers of Italy, whereby they protest against Father Curci for having arbitrarily made use of their names as having his lately published pamphlet for sale, and declare that they absolutely refuse to have it and sell it. This protest and this resolution speak volumes of Curci’s hook, which he refused to have revised by the ecclesiastical authority. The wretched ex-Jesuit has fallen into the paws of the Revolutionists, but he is already being kicked off by them.
—A study into the age of the antiquities found at Mycenae and Spata has inclined Prof. Kohler, the head of the German Institute at Athens, to the opinion that they are the work of a primitive Carian population, of which they constitute the first definite traces on the mainland of Greece. It
390
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
has been suspected that some other objects of extreme antiquity found in the Greek islands were relics of the primitive race which is known to have occupied the region, but there has never been any positive evidence determining the question nor is there any now. Prof. Kohler assigns the culminating influence of the Carians to about the eleventh century B. C.
—Douglas Volk has been using to good advantage in Paris the studies he made at the quaint French village of Grez, near to the town of Barbizon, which is associated iu the minds of art students with the late Jean F. Millet, who united with his devotion to art, admiration for the rustic peasantry and worship of the grand old poetry of the Catholic Church. Often he used to say no anthem was so beautiful as the solemn music of the “ Dies Irae," and his whole life was so simple that he could not be induced to wear gloves to meet the nobility lest his hands should be spoiled. In this region, on the river Loire, our Chicago artist lingered, studying the quaint bridges, the aged mills, and the old-time costumes. The interior of an old mill, in which appeared the figure of a peasant woman, was the subject of one of his pictures, now owned in London. With a son of Sir James Simpson, the inventor of chloroform, he stopped for ten days at an old-fashioned hotel, in whose public room was the yawning fire-place, at which the meat was roasted* for dinner, and screaming peasants made it as unsuitable a a place for study as a busy railway depot or the vicinity of a Corliss engine. From the garden, rambling down to the river banks, he brought back some studies, and one balmy morning the two pilgrims walked over the hills to Mon-tigny, noted for where they found at home Charles Volk-mar, another art devotee from Baltimore.
Books and. Periodicals.
St. Francis de Sales Depicted by his Contemporaries. In Thirty-one Considerations upon the Virtues peculiar to this amiable Saint and Doctor of the Church. Baltimore: Kelly, Piet & Co. 1S7S.
This little book is especially appropriate now that St. Francis has been proclaimed a Doctor of the Church. The meditations are simply charming.
Physiological ^Esthetics. By Grant Allen, B. A. New York: D. Appleton & Company. Chicago. Jansen, McClurg & Co. Price, §1.25.
This is one of the most remarkable specimens of that division of recent scientific literature which is devoted to the study of mind, and which seems almost sure to seriously affect all the old systems of philosophy. The aim of the present work is to show that all our pains and pleasures, including the aesthetic feelings, are referable, ultimately, to direct physical impressions, pain and disgust being the result of the destruction, or a tendency toward the destruction, of bodily tissue, while pleasure is the result of the normal action of such tissue, muscular or nervous. The beautiful is defined to be that which affords the maximum of stimulation with the minimum of fatigue or waste, in processes not directly connected with the vital functions. From this foundation is built up the new theory of {esthetics and the fine arts, culminating in painting and poetry. The book is a most ingenious piece of reasoning and illustration, written in that matchless clear and limpid style which characterizes recent scientific literature of the higher class. There are, however, in places, a crudeness in thought and a diffidence of assertion which display the author in the light of a novice or pupil rather than master, and give to his work the character of a first attempt.
Many of the positions, too, which are assumed by the author will, we are convinced, be found untenable as scientific investigation proceeds, and the relation between mind and body becomes better understood. Spiritual beauty, if not indeed the spirit of beauty itself, seems to evaporate under his garish and mechanical analysis. It was not to be expected that this disciple of Darwin would fail to treat man as developed fifon animal, but we have a right, in the name of the moral, the spiritual, and even of the beautiful, to protest against his treatment of man as animal. No philosophy can stand which considers the
perception of the beautiful as merely the pleasiirab le feel ing arising from the normal action of bodily tissue. The essence of beauty is in the harmony of things, not in our agreeable feeling, nor even in our perception of this harmony. Beauty would be the same even though man never existed. In other respects also his theory of {esthetics is utterly at fault,—as for instance in his failure to give a sufficient reason for the pleasure we take in tragic compositions, or for the delight we experience in self-denial. The beauty of charity, or the pleasure of unrequited love, would seem to be beyond his comprehension. Evidently he has never known that “It is more blessed to give than to receive.”
No feature of modern scientific study is more to be rep-	w
reheuded than this morbid desire which seems to possess so many of its votaries, impelling them to present every fact in such a light as to adorn the natural at the expense of the supernatural. As Gibbon gloats over a Christian’s imperfection and lauds a pagan’s virtue, so too often do	i
our men of science extol the excellence that is in matter and scoff at whatever may be mysterious in spirit. Could	I
this malevolent, though perhaps unconscious, desire to de-	|
grade what is noblest in human nature be removed from	f
this little book, it would be a most instructive and fasci-	f
nating piece of composition.	t
Yet the sentiments of the man, as is often the case,	I
sometimes rise superior to the theories of the author,	F
particularly in his delightful chapters on painting and	I
poetry. One sentence will illustrate this,—“Whatever is	|
low, mean, or impure must be banished irrevocably from	|
poetry, as from all fine art.” Many others equally noble	i
and truthful might be selected. As a further illustration	f
of his beautiful thought, and also to give a specimen of his	i
exquisite prose, we quote the concluding paragraph of his	|
chapter on poetry: “ Before concluding this chapter let me meet one objection which is certain to be raised against	|
this analysis. Where, it will be asked, in such a system, is there room for Genius? If Poetry consists merely of	•
such special combinations of such special elements, why cannot any man sit down and write a poem? The answer is that poetical genius is the power of thus combining and arranging these elements. Not every man has his mind so stored with the beautiful and sublime objects of external nature, with the noble and pathetic emotions of the human heart. Not .every man can so adorn whatever subject he touches with grand images and eloquent words. Let us take a parallel from a sister art. Painting is merely the combining of certain colors and shapes in accordance with certain laws. Any man may learn them and recognise their truth. But only the born artist has the power to employ them in the production of great pictures. Only	'
the born artist has the imagination to group together his	J
ideal figures, the eye to catch the faint harmonies of light	S
and shade, the hand to trace those delicate tints and grace- -ful curves which make up the glorified countenance of a Madonna. So it is with the poet. First in his mind rises vaguely the conception of some touching tale or some stirring lyric. Next comes the spontaneous choice of a metre that harmonises with his theme. Gradually he shapes his idea and fleshes it out with episode or senti-	■
ment. Finally he selects for every stanza and every line the loveliest and choicest words or pictures, drawn from the inexhaustible stores of his memory and his imagination, where he has gathered together, as in a treasure-house, all that is glorious and beautiful, without and within, in the boundless universe or in the soul of man. The total result so obtained is that harmonious and noble work of art, a poem.”
—When Mozart, at six years of age, made his first musical tour through Germany, the Elector of Bavaria, by way of encouraging the boy, told him he had nothing to fear from his august presence. “ Oh !” said the child, “ I have played before the Empress.” Her Majesty was one of the first who took notice of his extraordinary talent, and used to place him upon her knees while he played at the harpsichord. When Mozart, two years afterwards, visited England, he published'at London some sonatas for the harpsichord, which he dedicated to the Queen, subscribing himself, “Your humble and very obedient little servant.”

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
391
—Aristides being judge between! wo private persons, one of whom declared that his adversary had greatly injured Aristides. “ Relate, rather, good friend,” said he, “ what wrong he has done thee, for it is thy cause, not mine, that I now sit to judge.” Being desired by Simonides, the poet, who had a cause to try before him, to stretch a point in his favor, he replied, “As you would not be a good poet if your lines ran contrary to the just measures and rules of your art, so neither should I be a good judge or an honest man if I decided right in opposition to law and justice.”
—Air-tight flooring is a most important factor in the construction of practically fireproof buildings. An English brewer made the floor of his malt-house of three-inch planks grooved together. A fire broke out in the house. The roof over the floor fell in and the fire raged twenty-four hours above the floor without burning through it, because the substantial, well-grooved planks prevented a supply of air from below. An easy test of the soundness of the explanation may be made by any one. Fasten a piece of board on the ground and build a fire on it. The time taken to burn the board will surprise most people.
—When the father of young Jerrold was manager of the theatre (the barn) at Sheerness, good company sometimes appeared among the audience. While his ship, the Pallas, lay in Sheerness roadstead, Lord Cochrane (afterwards Earl Dundonald) was often at the play; and he was remembered by the old doorkeeper not less for his naval renown, than by his good-natured whim of always paying for his box twice. Little Douglas was then a flaxen-haired boy, in whom Lord Cochrane was to find, in after life, one of the staunchest of his friends and defenders, as acknowledged in the following letter, one of the few preserved by Jerrold: —“Sir—Ypur generous and very powerful advocacy of my claim in the investigation of my case has contributed to promote that act of justice, and produced a decision of the Cabinet Council after due dliberation, to recommend .to her Majesty my immediate restoration to the Order of the Bath, in which recommendation her Majesty has been graciously pleased to acquiesce. I would personally have waited on you confidentially to communicate this (not yet promulgated) decree; but as there is so little chance of finding you, and I am pressingly occupied, I shall postpone that pleasure and duty.—I am,sir, your obliged servant, Dundonald, 8 Chesterfield-street. 10th May, 1849.”
—Haydn and Mozart, two of the greatest composers of ancient or modern times, had the highest respect for each other. “ Mozart,” said Haydn, when asked his opinion, “ is the greatest composer now living.” And Mozart hearing a German composer find fault with Haydn, said, “ If you and I were both melted down together we should not furnish materials for one Haydn.” At a concert where a new piece, composed by Haydn, was performed, a musician present who never discovered anything worthy of praise, criticising the music, said to Mozart, “There, now! why that is not what I should have done.” “ No,” replied Mozart, “ nor should I; but the reason is that neither you nor I would have been able to conceive it.” After Mozart’s death Haydn was asked by Broderip, in his music shop, whether he had left MS. compositions behind him worth purchasing, as his widow had offered his inedited papers at a high price io the principal publishers of music throughout Europe. Haydn eagerly said, “ Purchase, them by all means. He was a truly great musician. I have often been flattered by my friends with having genius, but he is my superior.” Though this declaration had more of modesty than truth in it, yet if the genius of Mozart, who died at the early age of thirty-six, had been granted as many years to expand as that of Haydn, the assertion might have been realized.
—The Declaration of Independence was signed by fifty-six names, of whom nine were of Irish origin. They were Matthew Thornton, James Smith, Geo. Taylor, George Reed, Charles Carroll of Carrollton, Thomas Lynch, Jr., Thomas McKean, Edw. Rutledge, and Charles Thompson. Matthew Thornton, born in Ireland in 1714, signed it for New Hampshire. He was afterwards Chief Justice of the Common Pleas, and died June 24,1803. Jas. Smith, who signed for Pennsylvania, was born in Ireland in 1813, and died in 1806. George Taylor, a signer from the same State, was born in Ireland, so poor that his services were sold on his arrival to pay the expenses of his passage out. He died at Easton, Pa., February 23,1817. George Reed, of Dela
ware, was the son of Irish parents, one of the authors of the Constitution of Delaware, and afterwards of the Federal Constitution. It was he who answered the British tempters, “I am a poor man, but, poor as I am, the King of England is not rich enough to purchase me.” He died in 1798. Charles Carroll, of Caroilton, was of Irish descent, and very wealthy. He fixed his address after his name that the pledge of his “fortune” might be beyond doubt. He was the last survivor of the signers, and died Nov. 14, 1832. Thomas Lynch, of South Carolina, succeeded his father, who died while in Congress in 1776, and signed the Declaration. He went abroad soon after for his health, and afterwards was lost at sea. Thomas McKean, a signer from Pennsylvania, was successively Senator, Chief Justice, Governor of Pennsylvania, and President of Congress. After fifty years of public life, he died on the 24th of June, 1817. Edward Rutledge, of South Carolina, was also a signer, fought in the Southern campaign, and was for three years kept a prisoner in Florida. He became Governor of South Carolina, in 1799, and died in January, 1806. Charles Thompson, born in Magbera, county of Derry, in 1739, came to Pennsylvania at the age of eleven years. His father died while the emigrant ship was entering the Delaware. In his youth he became intimate with Benjamin Franklin, with whom he “agreed on all subjects except religion.” In 1774 he was chosen Secretary to the first Congress, and continued to fill that onerous office until 1789, when the formal adoption of the Constitution closed its functions. He wrote out the Declaration of Independence from Jefferson’s draft, and was the medium through which Franklin received his instructions, and Washington was informed of his election as first President of the Union.
—On Saturday evening, one of our sporting editors, mistaking an order meant for a music critic to write up “Land-liche Hochgeit,” etc., as an* order for him to obtain the points of a new horse, proceeded to the Academy of Music, and on his return wrote the following criticism. The regular report of the performance of Landliche Hochgeit, by the Philharmonic Society, wus printed. The sporting man’s report is: The most conspicuous part of this exhibition was the entire absence of pool-selling, though there were many people present who would have liked to put up a few ducats on the big roan fiddle at the start. It seems, however, that the late decision of John Morrissey has had its effect in all sporting circles; time was called exactly at eight o’clock, and, as near as we could judge, about sixty fiddles, fifes, and bugles entered for the contest. The fiddles won the toss and took the inside, with the chandelier right in their eyes. The'umpire, with a small club, acted also as starter. The timer was not in sight, and when we asked for the bottleholder, we were told that he was chalking up at Theis’s. Just before the start, the umpire stood upon a cheese-box, with a small lunch counter in front of him, and shook his stick at the entries to keep them down. He continued to play single-stick with himself during the entire fight, but not one of the contestants looked at him. They first socked it to “Landliche Hochgeit,” by Goldmark, out of Op. 26. They got off nearly even, one of the sorrel fiddles gently leading. The man with the French horn tried to call them back, but they settled down to work at a slogging gait, with the big roan fiddle bringing up the rear. At the first quarter, the little black whistle broke badly and went into the air; but fiddles on the left kept well together and struck up a rattling gait. At the half pole there was a big change, and the man with the straight horn showed signs of fatigue. He evidently had got the cross-buttock in the first round.' There was a little bobtailed flute that wrestled sadly with the sorrel bugle at the half mile, but he was wind-broken and wheezed, while the big roan fiddle threw a shoe on the back stretch. The galloot with the big fat bugle kept hallooing “whoa” all the time, but he seemed to keep up with the rest until the end of the race. They all came under the string in good order, but the judge ■ on the cheese-box seemed to reserve his decision. He seemed tired, and the riders all went out to find their bottleholders, and to get weighed for the handicap in the Beethoven race. It was a nice exhibition, and for a rainy night, when there is no sparring at Harry Hill’s or cock fighting at Hoboken, the Philharmonic may be a good thing. It is a little tiresome to the observer, and must be hard on the big roan fiddle.—JYeio York Telegram.
392	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Wotx*e Dame, February 16, 1S78.
. The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame Ind., and of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it: parents should take it: and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Pius the Glorious. A
“Pius the Ninth is dead!” “The Holy Father is no more!” Those were the words that on Thursday last, starting from the Eternal City, travelled to the ends of the world, announcing to all the children of Mother Church that their well-beloved Father had gone to his rest, gone to receive his crown of triumph. He has gone from us in person, but the memory of his character and actions remain, and shall imprint themselves deeply on the hearts of all.
Great men, they say, are formed for great circumstances. The events of the last quarter of a century surpass in every respect the events of any similar epoch in modern history. Called to the Chair of Peter in the middle of revolution, Pius IX ended his life deprived of his lawful and time-honored rights as temporal ruler of the States of the Church. In all trouble and in all danger did he stand forth undismayed, trusting in the promises of God, who in all times has protected His beloved Church. Born at Sinigaglia, May, 13, 1792, consecrated Archbishop of Spoleto, May 21, 1827, transferred to Imola, Sept. 17,1832, created Cardinal Dec. 14,1840, he upon the death of Gregory XVI was proclaimed the Father of the Faithful on June 16,1846. Europe was trembling on the verge of revolution, and Italy was to experience theshock. The youngPope, beloved as Cardinal Mastai, prosecuted with great vigor the reforms he proposed in his States. Austria in alarm protested, and invaded his territory. His people flew to arms, and the invaders withdrew. But soon fired by the incendiary agents of young Italy, they rose in revolt against their sovereign Bishop and he was compelled to fly, but in 1850 he re-entered the Eternal City amid the acclamations of the people. In 1860, he was stripped of nearly all his possessions by Victor Emmanuel, King of Sardinia, and in 1870, through Porta Pia came the invading hosts, destroying the last of his earthly possessions.
Yet not as a temporal ruler was Pius IX especially known, but as the Head of Holy Church. Many and time-enduring were his great spiritual works. In his exile in Gaeta he wrote to all the Bishops of the Catholic world on the question of the Immaculate Conception, and on Dec. 8,1854, he declared the conception of the Mother of God without sin to be a truth of Catholic faith, believed from all ages. On Sept. 10,1860, by an Apostolic Brief he formed England’s Hierarchy, with Cardinal Wiseman as Archbishop of Westminster. Three years later he re-established the hierarchy of Holland. On Dec. 8,1864, the celebrated Syllabus was issued, in conjunction with a protest against the new Government of Italy. The effect of that famous condemnation of errors is well-known. On April 11, 1869, the Golden Jubilee of his priesthood was celebrated the world over. On Dec. 8th of that same year the most illustrious event of his reign occurred. The great Council of the Vatican met, and the Constitutions of the Church proclaimed on Reason and the Unity of the Church. The noble and eloquent Allocutions against the so-called Italian laws so often delivered by the great Pius, are known and familiar to all.
The last act of the great Pope was the re-establishment of the Scottish Hierarchy. Two Archbishops and four suffragans were created, and to the Archbishopric of Edinburgh the new created Cardinal Howard was assigned. Such were the noted religious events of the reign of Pius IX. During his whole pontificate he attended to anctexamined the multitudinous affairs of the various Congregations. In reality he attended far more closely than any other Pope of modern times to all the minute workings of the Church. Two other great events of moment, purely religious in their effects, which should not be passed, over, occurred during his reign, the canonization of the Japanese martyrs on June 8,1862, and the celebration of the Centenary of St. Peter in 1867.
Pius IX was a most zealous fosterer of learning and art. His kindnesses to scholars of all faiths in regard to the noble libraries of the Vatican were many and great. He was most particularly devoted to Catholic journals, and his blessing on them is well-known. “ May God bless and direct, through the intercession of St. Francis de Sales, under whose protection they wish to be placed, the writers of Catholic journals who defend the cause of religion, its rights, and those of the Apostolic See, and adhere to its doctrines and precepts with devotion and fidelity.” As a man, no word was ever spoken against him. He shone forth as an example to all of virtue and holiness. His character was one of unsurpassed loveliness, and the winning looks of the great.Pontiff have often conquered those who expected to see him with unconcern. As an example of the high regard entertained for him by those without the pale of Mother Church, we give the following glowing eulogy from a purely secular paper commenting on his death:
“ In person, Pio Nbno was rather above the average Italian height. His voice would, if but once heard, be ever remembered, so impressive and so mellifluous was it. His countenance was expressive of the native benignity of a disposition no misfortune could sour, and of a quiet courage no danger or calamity could crush. In his personal habits he was singularly abstemious, and it was only in late years that, at the order of his physicians, he consented to drink regularly even the light wines of the country. In the business of the See, and the affairs of I tens of millions who owned his spiritual supremacy,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	393
he was indefatigable in attention, energy, and patience. No one ever applied for his assistance in vain. The charity that paid the debts of the prisoners and portioned the maidens in 1846 never abandoned him. His purse was ever open to all, even to those who had no claim whatever on him for relief.
“The whole world will, in his death, mourn a good man. But even the mourners would scarcely wish to protract beyond his eighty-five years the sufferings arising from the complication of painful diseases under which he has so long been languishing. From first to last; from his cradle to his grave; from the early piety and affection for his subjects which was first shown at the Tata Giovanni, to the later days when he bid an atheist blush, and by the effect of his example, like another Hoses in a greater and a better era, brought a mocking infidel to his knees by prayers for the soul of his mother, the great Pontiff who has passed away has been the living representative, if so it may be said, of the Rock of Ages and of suffering humanity.
“It has perchance seemed strange, almost miraculous, that the allotted time granted by the Psalmist has been so far exceeded by the age of that Venerable Head of nearly 250,000,000 of Christians which has now passed away from time to eternity, from the Headship of the Church in this world to the fruition of his reward in the next. But though for his honored head Time for a moment seemed to have expanded his enexorable limits, the infirmities of age have at last smitten Pio Nono, the great successor of the great Hildebrand, the Vicegerent of the greatest Church of God upon earth. It is impossible that the shock of his death should not exert a most tremendous effect even on the tribes and nations recalcitrant to the Faith preached from the seven hills of Rome ages before the birth of Luther or Calvin, Erasmus or Melancthon— ages before the poetry and the heart of the active pulsation of religion were made morbid and semi-paralyzed by the poison of a pretended science, and the misapplication of a frozen morality which has but little of love for man, and recks but scantily of religion or tradition, or even the innermost mysteries of the Godhead.”
Pius IX is gone; at last he is at rest. He was truly one of the greatest, if not the greatest Pontiff that filled the Chair of St. Peter. The grand actions of his life, both as a true statesman and_ as a man of religion, will be remembered for ages to come. His heroic endurance of trial, suffering, and persecution, and his grand and noble forgiveness of his enemies. His reign has had a more lasting effc-cf on the Church than that of any other Pontiff. None ever lived so beloved by his children. After his long life of eighty-five years, and his pontificate of thirty-two, filled with glorious triumphs and heroically endured trials, he has passed from his earthly to his heavenly crown. Glorious were his triumphs, glorious his trials; and his name in the love of his children, and the Church which he guarded and governed so well and sacredly, shall be enrolled in the list of the illustrious Pontiffs as the great Pope, Pius the Glorious. - '
The Papal Obsequies at Notre Dame.
A solemn requiem service was celebrated at Notre Dame, on Wednesday last, for our late Holy Father, Pope Pius IX. The decorations in the church were at once solemn and magnificent. All the pictures, and there are many,
were draped in black. Large streamers were suspended from the arched aisles to the bases of the pillars, and chandeliers, lamps, pulpit and organ were draped in black. The catafalque was the finest we have seen in a long time. It was some six feet high, with a canopy surmounting it to a height of fifteen feet. The canopy was covered with lustreless silk intermixed with white, which gave it an appearance at once so magnificent and solemn that it struck all with inconceivable effect. The catafalque was covered with black cloth, fringed and spangled with gold. Around the catafalque were tapers which shed forth a subdued light, while at the head and foot were placed with artistic care many mementoes of the late Sovereign Pontiff. Chief among these was a magnificent chalice blessed by the Holy Father and used by him at Mass in his private chapel.
The College Band, before the beginning oL,Mass and. at the conclusion, played two dirges. Mass waSsung by Very Rev. A. Granger, with Rev. Fathers L’Etourneau and Roche as deacon and subdeacon. The Mass sung was the grand old Gregorian Requiem, and the deep voices of the older members of the congregation mixing with the clear soprano voices of the younger students gave to the singing a power which touched all hearts.
Very Rev. President Corby preached the panygeric. He began by speaking of the great men of the Old Testament, showing how Almighty God raised up great' men for extraordinary occasions or emergencies, and in the conclusion he drew a parallel between the figures and types of the Old Law and the realities of the New, between the Patriarchs and Prophets and the Sovereign Pontiffs, the Vicars of Christ upon earth. Having graphically described the great dignity of the priesthood and the powers given it by Christ, placing it far above even that of the Old Law, which in one instance called down fire from heaven to consume the sacrifice, he went on to show what must be the dignity of him who stood at the head of Christ’s clergy. Passing from the dignity of the Pontiffs in general, he came to speak of Pope Pius IX, and of his virtues, which had gained him the admiration even of the most bitter enemies of the Catholic Faith. He eulogized his all-embracing charity, his humility, his faith, his confidence in God. At times the orator became extremely eloquent, and produced great effect by his happy allusions, his forcible illustrations, and his moving exhortations.
The Mass concluded, the Absolution was given by the celebrant of the Mass, the clergy and students joining in the solemn chant of the Libera. This done, the clergy retired to the sacristy and the Band and grand organ played a solemn dirge, after which the congregation retired.
Personal.
—	John F. McHugh, of ’72, possesses a constantly increasing law-practice at Lafayette, Ind.
—	We are pleased to see B. Paul around again after being laid up with a cold for a week or two.
—	Francis McOsker (Commercial), of ’72, is with the Western News Company, Chicago, Ill.
—	Mr. E. Kitz, of the Circle House, Indianapolis, Ind., visited Notre Dame on Wednesday last.
—	J. B. Patterson (Commercial), of ’77, is with P. H. Kelly & Co., wholesale grocers, St. Paul, Minn.
—	T. A. Dillon (Commercial, ’71,) is keeping books for Cavanagh & Bodie, 222 Wabash Avenue, Chicago, Ills.
—	Charles Berdel, of ’74, is now living at Havana, Ill. Our informant did not tell us whether he had opened a law office there or not.
394
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Rev. Peter Lauth, C. S. 0., of St. Bernard’s, Watertown 1 Wis., spent a day with us last week. He gives glowing accounts of our friends there.
—Rev. E. Mears, of ’62, recently had a mission preached in.his parish at Youngstown, Ohio, by Revs. P. P. Cooney, J. M. Toohey and W. F. O’Mahony. Father Mears’ parish is quite large and in a flourishing condition.
—Letters from Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, are dated from St. Croix de Neuilly, Paris. He will proceed shortly to Rome, if he has not already started for that city. His health is good.	.
—Joseph Rumely (Commercial), of ’72, is still with his father, keeping books for the firm of J. Rumely & Co., Laporte, Ind. As a proof of his still remembering Notre Dame he renewed his subscription to The Scholastic last week.
—Thomas A. Dailey, of ’74, although he retains his one-third interest in the South Bend Herald, is still engaged in teaching in the High School at New Carlisle, St. Joseph’s County, Ind. Mr. Charles L. Murray has succeeded his son as editor-in-chief of the Herald. Mr. C. T. Murray has accepted a position on one of the Washington, D. C., dailies. .
Local Items.
—To-morrow is Septuagesima Sunday.
—Next Friday is Washington’s Birthday.
—In a couple of weeks Lent will be with us.
—The Band will be out serenading on the 22d.
—The Thespians are rehearsing for the evening of the 21st.
—The St. Cecilians hold very interesting meetings weekly.
—It began snowing last Saturday morning, and on Sun day there was very good sleighing.
—The cornet Band played several dirges at- the Requiem Mass for Pope Pius IX on Wednesday last
—The Katholische Volkszeitung, of Baltimore, favors the establishment of the diocesan school boards.
—The panegyric of Pius IX by Very Rev. President Corby on Wednesday last was admired by all.
—The Thespians have been giving their spare time in the evenings to rehearsals during the past week.
—The decorations in the church last Wednesday for the Requiem Mass for Pope Pius IX were really grand.
—When ye local is laid up for a week with a severe cold it is no easy thing for him to gather up items.
—When will the next spelling-bee take place in the Junior department ? The boys are anxious to know.
—Last Thursday was St. Valentine’s day. There were not many valentines passing through the post-office here.
—A rolling-pin gathers no moss.—Utica Observer. Neither does a rolling-mill.—Oil City Derrick. But a rolling prairie may.
—The Senior Orchestra will give a musical matinee on Washington’s Birthday. Of course it will be a tony affair.
—It has been proposed to start a fair-sized nursery at the St. Joe Farm. We have no doubt that it would prove successful.
—The University Orchestra is preparing for the night of the 21st, when we expect to hear good music from this organization.
—Quite a number of people, taking advantage of the heavy fall of snow this last week, came sleighing out to Notre Dame.
—We understand that one of the members of the Senior department is quite proficient in mesmerism. The victim, however, protests.
—The costumes to be used at the coming Entertainment are to be procured from Kellogg, the costumer for McVicker’s Theatre, Chicago.
—The number of strangers attending the Requiem Mass on Wednesday last, although not as large as expected, was by no means inconsiderable.
—Who is it that don’t believe in the ground-hog now? There was sunshine and rain and snow last week, and there are four weeks yet before us.
—We have not heard much lately about the Latin drama which it was proposed to put upon the boards at Notre Dame. How is it, ye who study Plautus?
—It is expected that there will be a large audience to greet the Thespians on the 21st. The Entertainment will begin promptly at 7 o’clock in the evening.
—The Mass sung to-morrow will be Missi Parmdorum. The psalms sung at Vespers are those in the Common Vespers of Sunday, page 32 of the Vesperal.
—The Director of the Thespian Association says that the Entertainment on the evening of the 21st will far surpass any ever given by that body at Notre Dame.
—The Philopatrians claim, and with much truth, that their weekly meetings are more diversified and interesting than those of any other society in the College.
—The manner in which the catafalque at the Mass of Requiem on Wednesday last was arranged, its decorations, etc., are worthy of the high praise given by all who saw it’
—The Katholisches Wbchenblatt, of Chicago, last week contained an excellent article on the Catholic School question, sustaining the views of The Scholastic on this subject.
—Invitations to the Entertainment to be given next Thursday evening were sent off this past week. We expect that if the weather is fine there will be a large audience to greet the Thespians on that occasion.
—The pictures of the late Holy Father in the parlor, the study-halls, the dormitories, and a number of class-rooms, have been draped in black. The drapery will be left around the pictures for thirty days.
—The Curator of the Cabinet of Physics has lately received a large number of optical and acoustic instruments from Philadelphia, and some very interesting apparatus for illustrating magnetism and electro-magnetism.
—The Columbians this year form one of the most active and go-ahead societies in the College. It is very seldom that the exercises of an evening are postponed for want of preparation. As a consequence, the meetings are lively.
—We fear the astrologer of the.NoTRE Dame Scholastic has miscalculated. The thaw was to lake place on the 16th of last month, and the Russians to enter Constantinople on the 5th of May.—Catholic Columbian. How is this, Mr. Astrologer ?
—We gratefully acknowledge an ivitation from the writers for the able Notre Dame Scholastic to be present at the carving of a turkey at Notre Dame University. We should like to be with you, gentlemen, and enjoy the sparkle of your wit over the savory .bird,—but the Union forbids.—Catholic Union, of Buffalo.
—We know of no place where Washington’s Birthday is celebrated so enthusiastically as at Notre Dame. It is said that Pio Nono greatly admired the character of Washington, and we hope at the coming Entertainment something of Pius IX may be said along with the panegyric of America’s greatest hero. Let us unite our patriotism with our religion.
—The regular weekly meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception was held last Sunday evening. Master E. Walters read “A Sketch of the Life of Blessed John Berchmans,” Messrs. Widdicombe and C. Clark read essays on “St. Francis de Sales” and on “The Society of Jesus.” After the usual hymn the meeting adjourned. The Confraternity is. in a prosperous condition.
—Why do not the Senior students imitate the Juniors and join more in the singing in church ? A Junior wanted to persuade us that it is because the Seniors can’t sing; but this is not true, since the singing in the Senior Archconfraternity is fully equal to that in the Junior one. If the Seniors would sing one half as well in church as they do at the Confraternity meetings the singing in the church would be vastly improved. '
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	395
—The Juniors sang with great effect at the Requiem at Notre Dame as a lay Brother. A few days previous to Mass on Wednesday last. Why do not the Seniors take his death he was in the best of health, but a severe cold the same interest in the singing in church that the Juniors which he had taken settled on his lungs, causing inflam-do? We know, for we have heard them with pleasure '	................... ’	'
do? We know, for we have heard them with pleasure mation, and terminated in his almost sudden death on at the Confraternity meetings, that there are many good Monday night. May he rest in peace.
voices among the Seniors, and they should make use of j —The following, entitled “ Good-Natured Editing,” we them in Church. Indeed the general verdict of most ; going the rounds of the press, and we republish it for nonnlo nnrn ia font (Ka Wa^iav^ Ann PiiIItt nnimi i-Fma*
people here is that the Seniors can fully equal, if not surpass, the Juniors.
—At a meeting of the Philodemic Association held Feb.
13th the following gentlemen performed their assigned duties: Messrs. McCullough, J. P. Quinn and Ewing answered questions; Mr. Maguire declaimed. The debate was “ That Monarchy was the stronger and more stable form of Government,” Messrs. J. J. Quinn and Hertzog for the affirmative, and Messrs. McCue and Ewing for the negative. The President gave his decision in favor of the affirmative argument.
—Thanks to the committee and writers of The Notre Dame Scholastic for an invitation requesting our presence at the carving of a turkey. We are sorry for not being able to be present. However, we suppose it to have been the only turkey they had the pleasure of carving for a long time, and feel sure they demolished the same without much trouble. We will wait the report of the “carving,” when no doubt, we will hear of:
“A bard being selected to witness the fray, And tell future ages the feast of the day.”
—Parkersburgh Catholic Messenger.
—The Scholastic Almanac for 1878, now in its third
year,
is replete with many excellent articles, besides the great variety of miscellaneous matter throughout its pages. Its typographical work is good, and reflects credit on those in charge of the “ Scholastic Printing Office.” The Notre Dame Scholastic, a neat college journal, is the main contributor to the numerous articles in this volume. The Calendar for every day in the year is a ready reference for every Catholic family. We congratulate the compiler, Prof. J. A. Lyons, on this the third volume. Send 25 cts. for a copy. Published at Notre Dame, Ind.—Catholic Messenger.
—During the past few weeks the “Life of Pope Pius IX,” by Rev. Richard Brennan, A. M., was read in the Junior refectory, and will be finished in a couple of weeks. The day it was announced that he had ceased to live, the same work was begun in the Senior refectory. We are glad of this. The grandest character of the nineteenth century is Pio Nono. No monarch, or minister, or statesman, or warrior, or man of any rank, can be compared with him, and t he virtues of his life were those which every young man should strive to imitate. We would advise every student to procure a copy of Father Brennan’s “Life of Pius IX,” and make it a study.
—The other day, while some of the students of Notre Dame were receiving lessons in athletics, a tramp who had been fed at the college was looking on. After watching the fencing-master and his pupils for a time, the tramp asked permission to try his hand. He was given the foils, but declined them. One of the larger pupils took a turn with him but was quickly vanquished, much to the surprise of all present, and greatly to the.chagrin of the defeated swordsman, who expected some fun for the boys, and an easy victory. The teacher was then invited to try his hand, and he was about as easily “scooped” as his pupil had been. The tramp was sinewy, lithe and quick, and wielded his sword with a master hand. He departed as mysteriously as he came.—South Bend Register. The tramp referred to w'as at one time, so he claimed, an Irish officer in the British Navy. He was a first-class swordsman.
—Brother Richard, whose family name was Wm. H. Stoney (a convert to the Catholic faith), departed this life on Monday night last, at the Professed House. This good Brother had for several years past been engaged with the chamberlain’s corps at the College, and during that time had drawn to himself the favorable attention of everyone with whom he came in contact—for he was humble, simple-minded, and ever ready to oblige. Before entering the Community, Mr. Stoney had served in the 24th New Jersey Volunteers, during the late civil war. Shortly after the termination of the war his attention was favorably drawn to the Catholic religion, which he embraced, and in 1871 he joined the Congregation of the Holy Cross
the benefit of whom it may concern at Notre Dame: ‘“Good natured editing,’says some wise man, ‘spoils half
the papers in the United States.’ Yes verily. ‘Will you please publish the poetry I send, ‘ it is my first effort;’ and some crude lines go in to encourage budding genius. “Our church is in great peril,’ says another, ‘will you publish our appeal! ? ’ and a long dolorous plea is inserted. ‘ My father took your paper for twenty years,’ writes another, ‘I think you ought to publish the resolutions passed by the Big Brake church when he died,’ and in go resolutions of no interest to a majority of readers. ‘ I am particularly anxious that the views I present go before the church this week,’ and out ‘go a covey of small, pithy contributions to make room for three columns from a ponderous D. D. ‘ There is immediate necessity for the exposure of one who is a bitter enemy of the truth,’ writes another, as he sends an attack upon an antagonist which will fill an entire page. ‘ I am about to publish a book identifying the great image of brass, iron and clay, and I would be obliged to you to publish the advance sheets of chapter V which I enclosed to you.’ ‘Why don’t you publish in full, Voorhees’ great speech in the Senate? It would increase your circulation largely.’ ‘ If you will publish the sermon I transmit to you I will take eight extra copies! ’ ‘ The church must be aroused on the subject of foreign missions,’ says a pastor, as he forwards the half of his last Sabbath’s sermon. And the ladies—the good-natured editor surrenders to them at once, and they go away happy, utterly unconscious that they have helped to spoil the paper.”
—The following is the programme of the Entertainment to be given on Thursday evening, February 21st, at 7 o’clock, by the Thespian Association :
PART I.	•
Music.....................
Oration of the Evening... Overture—“Figaro ”—Mozart Song and Chorus.......... Prologue................. Overture—“ Semiramis ”...
March....................
. N. D. U. C. B. John G. Ewing .... Orchhestra . .Choral Union ... W. Ohlman .....Orchestra .N. D. U. C. B.
PART II.
KING HENRY IV, PART I.
.A Tragedy in 5 Acts, by William Shakespeare. Slightly Abridged for the Occasion.
King Henry IV.........................Jas.	J. Quinn
Harry Monmouth (Prince of Wales).Jos. P. McHugh Harry Percy (surnamed Hotspur)...August K. Schmidt Sir John Falsfaff................Eugene F. Arnold
Archibald (Earl of Douglas)............Wm.	Ohlman
Bardolph......................  .Ambrose	J. Hertzog
Prince John of Lancaster............John	P. Kinney
Thomas Percy (Earl of Worcester).Wm. L. Dechant Earl of Westmoreland.............Patrick J. Cooney
Henry Percy (Earl of Northumberland).. .Wm. H. Arnold Sir Walter Blunt..................  Martin	J. Regan
Sir Richard Vernon....................John	P. Quinn
Poins.................................Luke	J. Evers
Gadshill............................John	J. McEniry
Jack Quickly (Host of a Tavern in Eastcheap)
............................John	J. Coleman
Roby (a Courier)... Francis (a Drawer)
Address.. Edgar.... Gregory.. Anselm... Everard.. Sheriff.... Eustace... Alaric ... Alfred.... Wilfrid ...
•J
..................J..Montgomery 	Virgil	McKinnon .......................P.	Hagan '.........................Henry Maguire
Courtiers. ( ..................John Lambin ..................Patrick	J. Mattimore
' > Guards of Honor. <
.....M. McCue P. McCullough .T. F. O’Grady . .E. Davenport
396
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Travellers, Lords, Soldiers, etc., etc.
Epilogue................................J. P. McHugh
Closing Remarks......................................
March for Retiring......................N. D. V. C. B.
Note.—During the play the Band and Orchestra will discourse appropriate music. If time permit, the exercises will close with a comedy.
Besolutions
ON THE DEATH OF OUR HOLY FATHER, PIUS IX, BY THE FACULTY OF NOTRE DAME.
At a meeting of the Faculty of the University of Notre Dame, held Thursday, Feb. 14,1878, the following resolutions were adopted:
Whereas, It has pleased our Lord to take to Himself His Vicar, the visible head of His Church upon earth, our Holy Father, Pope Pius IX, therefore be it
Resolved, That as Catholics we bow to the will of Him who doth all things well, while at the same time we sorrow with our Holy Church in her bereavement, and for ourselves mourn as children who have lost a benevolent father.
Resolved, That as citizens of the Republic we shall ever hold the name of Pius IX in grateful remembrance. His warm sympathy with our country was proverbial. He has under God nurtured the Church in this land from a feeble missionary existence to the noble and vigorous growth presented by her this day; and he has always looked, with a solicitous and fatherly eye on all that is noblest in American institutions.
Resolved, That as educators of youth we are especially called upon to remember our Holy Father as the great teacher of truth to this generation, the promoter of sound doctrine, the encourager of good writings, the patron of science, art and letters; as the fearless rebuker of all false teaching in religion and morals, whether relating to individuals or to society. With the sublime faith of his predecessor, St. Peter, he combined the intrepidity and wisdom of St. Paul and the meekness of the Beloved Disciple. The men of his day have not disclosed his equal in what the world calls greatness, while only the canonized saints of God show forth the pattern of his heroic virtues.
Resolved, That while we lament the loss which the Catholic world has suffered in the death of Pius IX, we thank God for the great things which he has done, and especially for the sublime example which he has left us; and we look with confidence to the Divine Wisdom to raise up a head to His Holy Church who shall worthily follow the light of his great predecessor, and continue in joy and triumph the work which he so nobly carried on for the glory of God and the welfare of mankind.
W. Corby, C. S. C., President, j
T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Vice-President, C. E. Kelly, C. S. C-,	g
Bro. Philip Neri, -	)- B
Bro. Alban,	s
O. Schnurrer,	§
T. E. Howard,	J
Boll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
. W. Arnold, E. Anderson, T. Barry, M. W. Bannon, P. J. Barrett, P. J. Cooney, J. E. Cooney, A Congar, J. J. Carroll, P. Crueper, E. C. Davenport, C. K. De Vries, J. G. Ewing, F. C. Ewing, J. English, J. J. Fitzgerald, L. Evers, W. C. Farrar, E. C. Gramling, 8. Gooley, M. Hogan, A J. Hertzog, J. J. Houck, J. S. Hoffman, F. J. Hoffman, A. J. Hettinger, O. Hamilton, A W. Johnson, F. Keller, J. Kelly, J. J. Kotz, P. W. Mattimore, W. J. Murphy, H. Maguire, J. D. Montgomery, C. F. Mueller, E. Maley, V. F. McKinnon, J. P. McHugh, M. McCue, P. F. McCullough, J. H. McConlogue, E. McMahon, H. W. Nevans, T. F. O’Grady, W. Ohlman, W. O’Brien, C. O’Brien, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, M. J. Regan, O. P. Rettig, J. Rice, J. Rabbitt, T. 8.
Summers, S. T. Spalding, C. L. Stuckey, F. Williams, F. Walter, J. Deehan, O. S. Mitehell.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Arentz, R. M. Anderson, J. G. Baker, F. W. Bloom, M. H. Bannon, J. A Burner, A. J. Buerger, J. Berteling, C. Brinkman, J. Carter, F. E. Clarke, W. D. Cannon, F. Cavanaugh, C. J. Clarke, G. H. Donnelly, W. P. Doyle, J. W. Guthrie, H. A. Gramling, J. F. Herrick, J. R. Kelly, R. E. Keenan, F. W. Lang, J. Lumley, J. D. McNellis, R. P. Mayer, T. F. McGrath, J. Matthews, G. J. Orr, F. T. Pleins, R. C. Pleins, S. S. Perley, R. W. Reynolds, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, G. E. Sugg, J. K. Schoby, M. Roughan, W. Stang, C. Van Mourick, W. B. Walker, W. A. Widdicombe, C. F. Walsh.
Note.—The name of E..S. Walters was omitted last week, through mistake, from the Junior Roll of Honor.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
A Coghlin, G. Lambin, J. A. Bushev, G. J. Rhodius, J. A Seeger, J. Courtney, W. Coghlin, F. Gaffney, R. Costello, Jos. Inderrieden, H. Snee, H. Kitz, C. Bushey, S. Bushey, E. Herzog, O. Farrelly, J. McGrath, I. McGrath, C. McGrath, C. Long, T. O’Neill, W. Rheinhardt, F. Farrelly, P. Fitzgerald, C. Garrick, P. Nelson.
Class Honors.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
J. G. Ewing, J. P. McHugh, J. J. Coleman, J. McEniry, W. Dechant, A. Hertzog, L. Evers, H. Maguire, M. J. McCue, J. P. Kinney, J. A. Burger, J. D. Montgomery, P. W. Mattimore. P. F. McCullough, F. W. Bloom, W. A. Widdicombe, G. Cassidy, F. Cavanaugh, F Berteling.
—On last Sunday evening, at the usual weekly reunion, compositions by the Misses B. Wilson, I. Fisk and C. Boyce were read. Very kind and encouraging remarks were made by Rev. Father Shortis, C. S. C., upon each one.	<
—On Sunday evening, the 3d inst., the following young	।
ladies read essays after the monthly distribution of Bulle-	।
tins: the Misses A. Henneberry and J. Cooney, of the Grad-	[
uating Class, and the Misses M. Ewing and H. Russell, of	1
the First Senior Class.
—Mr. James H. Ward, of Chicago, and his fair young bride (formerly Miss Agatha St. Clair, graduate of ’76), paid a visit to the Academy a few days since. Before leaving, Mrs. Ward presented her lovely bridal wreath to the Chapel of Loreto. She is a devoted Child of Mary, and in this graceful way has exhibited her devotion to the Queen of Heaven.
—The painful tidings that our beloved Pope, the cher-	-
ished and tender Father of the Faithful, had passed away	J
from earth, has spread a deep sorrow over St. Mary’s.	i
Solemn Requiem Mass was offered for the repose of his soul on Monday. A clear and impressive summary of the	j
principal events of his wonderful and saintly life was	I
given by the Rev. Chaplain. The chapel is heavily draped in mourning.
Boll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
Graduating Class—Misses J. Cooney, B. Reynolds, L. O’Neill, M. Spier, M. O’Connor, P. Gaynor, A. Harris, A. Henneberry.
1st Senior Class—Misses C. Boyce, S. Moran, H. Russell, M. Ewing, E. Lange, I. Fisk.
2d Senior Class—Misses N. McGrath, C. Silverthorne, M. Way, N. Keenan, Z. Papin, L. Keena, B. Thompson, N. Davis, A Woodin, S. Hamilton, M. Luce, M. Danaher, L Kirchner.
3d Senior Class—Misses M. Sullivan, J. Winston, M. Brown, M. Galen, M. Wagner, A Brown, A. Thomas, F. Cregier, L. Otto, C. Hackett, J. Burgert, E. Shaw, T. Pleins,	-
C. Lloyd, A. Farrell, A Gordon, A Morgan, F. Kingfield, A.
Kirchner.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
397

1st Prep. Class—Misses M. Winston, A. McGrath, L. Chilton, A. Geiser, E. Mulligan.
2d Prep. Class—Misses M. Mullen, J. Kingsbury.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses L. Fox, M. Hake, A. McGinnis, L. Van Namee.
1st Jr. Class—Misses J. Butts,'M. Cox, E. Wootten, N. Lloyd.
2d Jr. Class—Misses P. Felt, M. Ivers, B. and T. Haney.
’	LANGUAGES.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
1st Latin Class—Miss J. Cooney.
2d Latin Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, M. Luce.
1st French Class—Misses N. McGrath, C. Silverthorne, N. Keenan, H. Russell, B. Wilson, A. Harris. •
2d Div.—Misses B. Reynolds, M. O’Connor, J. Burgert, A. McGrath.
2d Class—Misses N/Galen, S. Moran, J. Cooney, M. Ewing, A. Geiser.
3d Class—Misses L. Kirchner, I. Fisk, Z. Papin, M. Birch, M. Winston, M. Brown, E. Mulligan.
2d Div.—Misses M. Danaher, M. Cox, M. Mulligan, L. Fox, L. French, F. Kingsfield.
Miss Z. Papin is promoted to the Third French Class.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN GERMAN.
1st Class—Miss A. Kirchner.
2d Div.—Misses S. Rheinboldt, D. Gordon, L. Walsh.
2d Class—Misses L. O’Neill, A. Hennebery, K. Barrett.
3d Class—Misses M. Way, 8. Hamilton, F. Cregier, E. Miller, C. Boyce.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
Graduating Class—Misses B. Wilson and T. Pleins.
1st Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, A. Geiser, L, Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses M. Spier, A. Harris, L. O’Neill, N. Keenan, N. Galen.	.
2d Div.—Misses A. Gordon, H. Buck, M. Usselman, A. Hen-neberry, M. Kingsfield, G. Welch.
3d Class—Misses L. New, J. Burgert.
2d Div.—Misses A. Farrell, W. Dudley, A. Kirchner, M. Brown, L. Walsh, E. Lange, A. McGrath, N. McGrath.
4th Class—Misses A. Reising, A. Morgan, P. Gaynor, B. Anderson, J. Cooney, K. Hackett, A Maloney.
2d Div.—Misses M. Winston, M. Way, E. Richardson, M. Mullen.
5th Class—Misses M. Danaher, W. White, K. Reordan, J. Winston, »A. Woodin, K. Barrett, F. Cregier, L. Papin, E. Shaw.
2d Div.—Misses B. Thompson, L. M. French, N. Hackett, L. Otto, M. Cleary, L. Wood, C. Van Namee, A. Ewing, M. Plat-tenburg, M. Halligan, C. Boyce, E. Miller.
6th Class—Misses I. Fitz, 8. Rheinboldt, L. Schwass, A. Brown, M. Mulligan, M. Ewing, E. Thomas, M. Lambin, L. Fox, A. Peak, M. Casey, M. Louber.
2d Div.—Misses B. Parrott, M. Birch, M. Hake, F.Brazleton, L. Wright, L. Chilton, L. Kelly.
7th Class—Misses A. McKinnis, J. Kingsbury, L. Ellis, S. Hamilton, E. Mulligan, M. Cox.
Sth Class—Misses M. McFadden, E. Wooten.
Organ—Miss W. Dudley.
Guitar—Miss B. Anderson.
Private Harmony—Misses Wilson, T. Pleins, L. Kirchner, A. Geiser.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class, 2d Div.—Miss L. Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses A. Kirchner, M. Usselman.
3d Class—Misses D. Gordon, L. Otto, A. Brown, K. Hackett, J. Winston, K. Reardon.
2d Div.—Misses 8. Rheinboldt, E. Richardson, A. Geiser.
4th Class—Misses W. Dudley, A Farrell, M. Casey, B. Anderson.	_
5th Class—Misses E. Galen, M. Hake, M. and A. Ewing, M. Mulligan.
Chorus Singing—Misses B. Thompson, B. Parrott, J. Barnes, N. Hackett.
Gen. Class—Misses J. Butts, L. Van Namee, K. Miller.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED. -
1st Class—Miss E. Lange.
4th Class—Misses A Kirchner, J. Burgert, A. Farrell, 8. Hamilton, E. Thomas^	.	'
5th Class—Misses- K. Riordan, H. Buck, E. Mulligan, J. Butts, L. French, M. Way, L. Chilton.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses L. Otto, L. Neu, M. Luce, B. Wilson, N. McGrath, M. Cleary, B. Parrott, K. Lloyd, M. Danaher, M. Mullen, A. Thomas, K. Barrett, B. Anderson, A. Peak, E. Wright, E. Richardson, J. Barnes,
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses M. Lambin, L. Wood, A. Kingfield, J. Kingsburry, M. Mulligan,F. Fitz,.A. McKinnis, L. Van Namee, N. Hackett.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
3d Class—Misses L. Kirchner, S. Moran, G. Welch, B. Reynolds, P. Gaynor, M. O. Connor.
4th Class—Misses N. Davis, M. Spier, 8. Rheinboldt.
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Miss E. Lange.
3d Class—Misses N. Davis, M. O'Connor.
Tablet of Honor.
For Neatness, Order, Amiability, and Correct Deportment.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses J. Cooney, A. Henneberry, A. Reising, B. Reynolds, H. Russell, 8. Moran. C. Boyce, C. Silverthorne, M. Way, M. Casey, L. Kirchner, L. Keena, M. Luce, M. Danaher, Z. Papin, M. Halligan, M. Brown, M. Wagner, T. Pleins, M. PJattenburg, A. Brown, M. Sullivan, J. Winston, M. Galen, A. Farrell, 8. Rheinboldt, M. Hayes, C. Kelly, 100 par excellence. Misses P. Gaynor, A. Harris, L. O’Neill, M. O’Connor, M. Ewing, B. Wilson, N. Keenan, G. Welch, N. King, W. Dudley, C. Riordan, E. Bhaw, L. Otto, L. Hackett, E. Walsh, J. Burgert, E. Schwass, F. Brazelton, M. Winston, M. Usselman, D. Gordon, A.|Morgan, M. Foster, M. Cleary, B. Parrott, L. Neu, M. Loeber, E. Thomas, E. Wright, J. Barnes, M. Mullen, E. Richardson.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses F. Kingfield, L. Chilton, A McGrath, J. Kingsbury, L.' Fox, A. McKinnis, L. Van Namee, M. Ivers, B. and T. Haney, 100 par excellence. Misses A. Ewing, A Geiser, E. Mulligan, L. MiUer.
Chicago, E. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00a.m. 3 45p.m.
Peru accommodation .............. 5 00 p.m. 9 35 a.m.
Night Express....................10 00 p.m. 6 50 a.m.
A M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO
KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo , West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City nd Denver Express via Jacksonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo.......3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Lou’s Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am
Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.....................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.......7 30 am 9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express...8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation...................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
Sets ’Em Up.
HENRY BLUM on hand with a full stock of Imported and Domestic CIGtARS and TOBACCOS at the
“ STUDENTS’ OFFICE, ”
B4 Washirgton Street, SOUTH BEND, IND,
i
398
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Indianapolis, Pern & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, December 36, IS77.
Northward Trains.	No. 5. Peru and Mich. City Ex.	No. 3. Chicago & Toledo Ex.	NO. 1. Mail, Ft. W., Tol. and Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis.'.		4.35 P. M	12.25 P. ST.	7.25 A. ST.
“ Kokomo		7.10 “	2.42 “	9.52 “
Ar. Peru		8.10 “	3.50 “	10.47 “
Lv. Peru	 “ Plymouth	 “ LaPorte	 “ Michigan City		8.25 P. ST. 10.25 “ 11.55 “ 12.40 A. M.		11.10 A. sr. 1.14 P. sr. 2.45 “ 3^30 “
Southward Trains.	No. 2. Mail Ft. W„ Chi. & Detroit Ex.	No. 4. Chicago and Mich. City Ex.	No. 6. Ft. W., Toledo & Detroit Ex.
Lv. Indianapolis.... “ Kokomo	 Ar. Peru		5.30 p.sr. 2.55 “ 1.50 “	4.10 a. sr. 1.50	“ 12.38	“	9.10 a. sr. 6.33	“ 5.37	“
Lv. Peru	 “ Plymouth	 “ LaPorte......... “ Michigan City..	1.27 P. sr. 11.24 “ 10.00 “ 9.10 A. SI.	12.33 A. sr. 10.25 P. sr. 8.50 “ 8.05 “	
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, NDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holv Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
No extra charge for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of Studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe, by nine teachers in Instrumental and two in Vocal Music.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe, are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting.
Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.
Special terms for two or more members of a family.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule.
For Catalogue, address:
’	MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary's Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ind.
Pittsburgh, Ft. Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
F. P. Wade, G. P. & T. A., Indianapolis.
V. T. Malott, Gen’l Manager, Indianapolis.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
C. &. N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its	■
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office. 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House ; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin- Hughitt,
, Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
JUNE 24, 1877.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No. 1, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex.	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 p.m. 12.53 “ 3.10 A.sr. 4.46 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9.00 A.M. 10.15 “ 1250 p.sr. 2.30 “ 440 “ 5.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.58 “ 5.35 “ 7.12 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	6 00 A.sr. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave Forest,		7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.30 p.m. 3.45 “ 1 7.00 “	5.40 p.m. 7.35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2 46 a.m. 6.30 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 “ 12 25 a.m.			 •
Lima,					
Ft. Wayne,	:	 Plymouth,	 Chicago,	Arrive			2.40 “ 4.55 " 7.58 “		
GOING EAST.				
	bo. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,	Leave Plymouth,	 Ft. Wayne,	 Lima,				9.10 p.m. 2.46 am. 6 55 “ 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 11.45 “	8.00 A.M. 11.25 “ 2.10 p.m. 4.05 “ 5.20 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.m. 9.00 “• 11.35 “ 1.30 A.M.		 ■
Forest,				2.48 “ . 4.25 “	
Crestline,	Arrive					
Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,	' Orrville,	 Alliance,	 Rochester,	 Pittsburgh,	Arrive	12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.30 “ 4.05 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.44 “ 9.38 “ 11.15 “ 1.21 A.M. 2.30 “	4.30 a.m. 5.00 “ 7.10 “ 9.00 “ 11.06 “ 12.15. “	6 05 a.m. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 p.m. 3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday. .
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cars, from Chicago 1o Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
.	FjB. MYERS, G. P, & T, A.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.'
399
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Bailroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Bailroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advancement of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to •
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Sept. 24,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 35 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
IX 05 am, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 pm; Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo, 4 am.
7 16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo 6 52 a m.	*
9 13pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 210 am; Cleveland, 7 05am; Buffalo, 1 05pm.
4 38 and 4 p m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 5 40 a m.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 am.
4 38 d m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 30; Chicago, 7 40 p m.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 am; Chicago 11 10 a. m.
8 45 and 9 35 am, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland. .
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’c West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Snpt.
FBOPBIETOB OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BPS LINE
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maiy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P. S HICKEY.
TYPE FOUNDERS,
CHICAGO,
Have the largest and most complete Type Foundry in the West. All Type cast from __ best quality of metal. Estimates furnished on application. Goods shipped promptly. Complete outfits supplied on short notice.
The Notbe Dame Scholastic is printed from type manufactured by Marder, Luse & Co., and which has been in constant use for over seven years.	, Jan 5-3mn
The Scholastic Almanac
For 1878
Is now out, and can be had on application to the publisher The Scholastic Almanac is beautifully printed on tinted paper, and bound in a glazed cover. It contains one hundred pages of excellent reading matter.
CONTENTS :
Introduction, Our Year, Astrological Predictions, Eclipses, Days of Obligation, etc., Groundhoggery, Calendars, . The Months—description, etc.,
January, February, March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November, December, The Two Rules,
The Great American Count, St. Bernard to Our Lord, Classical Education of Women,
Pio Nono,
A View of Astrology, Night Scene, The Letter Q, In October, Silent Letters, St. Augustine’s Prayer, The Duty of our Young
Men,
Over the Leaves, Negro Minstrelsy, Questions, Who was She ?	.
Sonnet, Mirabeau the Man, Mirabeau the Tribune, Maris Stella,	’
Aerolites.
Price, 25 cents, postpaid.
Address,	J. A. LIONS,
Notre Dame. Ind.;
or, The Scholastic Printing Company, Notre Dame, Ind.
MANUFACTURER AND DEALER IN
AMATEUR TOOLS,
FOR
Amateurs, Boys and Girls.
Turning Lathes,	Scroll Saws,
Hand Saws,	Saw Blades,
Fancy Woods,	New and Handsome^
Small Engine Castings,	designs for Brace-
Small Tools of all Hinds, lets, etc.
Also, Pub-isher of
The Amateur Mechanic,
A Monthly Journal of Practical Information for Amateurs, ‘ Boys and Girls. 50 Cents per Annum.
Send Stamp for sample Copy. Address
SAMUEL HARRIS,
dec8-tf 15 South Canal Street, Chicago, Ill,
400
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attorneys at Law.
BROWN «fc HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER	MITCHEEL [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72],
Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of ’621 Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all' the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fnlton), New York. Special attention given to "Depositions.
FANNING &	[D. J. Hogan, of ’741, At-
torneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, 111.
JOHN I?. McIIUGH [of ’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE dt DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE «fc MILL ARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
WLLIA NT J. CL A. TIKE (of ’74) Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
TAMES A_. O’REILLY-of ’69 —Attorney at Law, tJ 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN r>. McCORMICK—of’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Noy. 11, 1877.
	♦Mall	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago		7 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	3 45 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 p m
“ Mich. City..	9 28 “	11 10 “	6 20 “	7 35 “	11 15 “
“ Niles 		10 45 “	12 15 “	8 14 “	9 00 “	12 35 a m
“ Kalamazoo..	12 35 p.m	1 40 p.m	10 00 “	10 26 "	2 17 “
“ Jackson....	3 45 “	4 05 “	5 20 a.m	12 50 a.m	4 55 “
Ar. Detroit		6 45 “	6 30 “		3 35 “	8 CO “
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 35 a m		9 50 p.m	6 20 p m
“ Jackson		10 20 “	12 15 p.m		12 45 a.n	9 40 “
“ Kalamazoo..	1 15 p.m	2 40 “	4 00 a.m	2 53 “	2 25 a m
“ Niles		3 11 “	4 07 “	6 10 “	4 24 “	12 38 “
“ Mich. City..	4 40 “	5 20 “	7 50 “	5 47 “	4 15 “
Ar. Chicago		6 55	7 40 “	10 30	8 00 ”	6 45 “
Wiles and Sontli Bend Division.	
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p m. “ N. Dame— 8 52 -	6 38 u Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South"Bend, Ind.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75] Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
A RTHUR J. STACE [of’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
"Weekly Newspapers.
THE C ATHOLIC COEUMI3TA.W.pub'i8hed weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, §2 per annum.'
.	D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
THE A.VE MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturdav at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, $2.50.
THE SOUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74) 51.50 per annum.
Hotels.
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
rpHE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich-JL igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Hl. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be fonnd at tbe Matteson.
Book Binders.
EDWARD I?. FLYNN, Plaii and Fancy Book-binder, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
Qpf CALLING CARDS-no two alike, with name AO neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie, .
Mishawaka, Ind.
CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic AO Aimxukc for 1878. Address
J. A. Ltons,
Notre Dame, Ind.
The Naturalists’ Agency has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any American for “ Collections of Minerals.”
My Mineralogical Catalogue, of-50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about 5900, before copy, was struck off. Bjr means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the speci es and th more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The spepies number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fractureh, ardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Owing to an increase in stock, it has become necessary to obtain a larger and more convenient location. This has been found at No. 1223 Belmont Avenue, about 2 squares from the Trans-Continental hotel.
Over 38 tons, and nearly 535,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections ate labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
J
Number of Specimens	25 inbox	50 inbox	100 inbox	100	200	300
Crystals and fragments		$ 50	SI	$1 50	$ 1	$ 2	$ 3
Students’ size, larger		1 50	3	6	5	10	25
Amateur’s size,2U in.x 1U....				10	25	50
High School or Acad. size,2Ux3U in. shelf specimens				25	50	1 00
College size, 3^x6 in., shelf specimens					500	100	3 (0
Send for the, bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of natural Sne-ences and of the American Museum of natural History, Central Park, New York.