_ $
Jotre Dame Scholastic.
Disco quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moritTUims.
Volume XIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 6, 1880.
Number 26.

Friendship.
A SONNET. TO E. C. B.
While seated by a limpid stream one day,
Where nature in her beauty reigned supreme, Forgetful of the world, I seemed to ween
That Eden was not clad in such array Of beauty as around me then did lay.
But as I chanced to leave this lovely scene
I saw ’mid forest thick a grove of green, Where Sylvans merrily danced the time away. It was the feast of Friendship, heaven’s bower,
For as they marched in glee they each did bear A banner showing Friendship’s brightest flower,—
These words in golden letters penned were there: “ True Friendship ne’er from earth has had her power,
But from heaven ”— such as I for you do bear.
J. McD.
Metamorphoses of Insects.
“Nature is nowhere more perfect than in her smaller works.”— Pliny.
In the whole field of natural history there is no study so interesting and inexhaustive as that of insects. Their number, variety, and marvellous organization fill our minds with wonder, and produce in us a feeling which cannot be easily expressed in words.
When we look at the number of insects this world of ours presents, we wonder how a man can ever be able to study them at all. But in this as in every other branch of study, method and order is required, and by having recourse to classification the task becomes comparatively easy. When looking at their variety, generalization—that powerful auxiliary to the naturalist—gives us much assistance, helps us in tracing out the single plan on which an All wise Creator constructed all of these His creatures. Again, when we study their marvellous organization, we can see the variety of the execution of that single plan which underlies the structure of animal life.
What, in fact; would the insect world be without order or plan ? A perfect chaos. No wonder that some of our great naturalists were struck with the beautiful order in the insect world; and insignificant though these animals may appear, they have often been the cause of the return of their votaries to a belief in the one true God and to an acknowledgment of His Holy Church here on earth: for, judged they, God has order in all His works, and therefore that religion which presents to us a perfect order must be the one coming from God. But it is not our purpose to write a treatise on the divine origin of the only true form of religion; this would not be in accordance with the title of our subject.
In the study of nature, there is probably nothing more curious and interesting than the study of the peculiar transformations which an insect has to undergo in reaching its perfect state of existence—transformations which would hardly be believed but for the patient observation, and the careful study of the student of insect morphology. Who would believe that the beautiful butterfly, with its bepearled mantle, was once a caterpillar—that offensivelooking glutton which devastates our gardens by devouring the foliage of our most favorite plants and trees ? Who would believe, if it were not proved beyond a shadow of doubt, that our buzzing May-bugs, our chafers, etc., were once grubs, living under ground, and fed on the roots of plants. Metamorphosis is a fact; it has been satisfactorily proven, and has been known from the most ancient times. Aristotle describes it with tolerable accuracy. The Greek word for butterfly is psyche, and signifies also the human soul, and through the popular misconstruction the metamorphosis of the insect was also applied to the soul. The error is a natural one. Psyche means both soul and butterfly, and therefore the common mass believed that whatever properties one possessed the other must necessarily possess the same, and therefore an analogy between them naturally existed. However strange this may appear, we have an analogous belief established in the writings of St. Paul, with regard to the resurrection of the dead. We pass into the grave, and shall rise again, transformed in body, according as we are to be an inhabitant of heaven, or a victim for the fire of hell.
Nature teaches us many an interesting lesson; and she is always willing to bestow her knowledge upon those who care to listen to her teachings.
In order to understand the metamorphoses of insects I will classify those creatures into three great divisions. First, insects that do not undergo any metamorphic change; they come into existence as we find them, when they appear, full grown, except that they are smaller; and hence the only change they actually undergo is in regard to size. For these insects naturalists have a beautiful and euphonious name, that of Ametabolic. Secondly, insects that undergo a partial change: the larva, differing from the imago chiefly, in the absence of wings and in size, and in the activity of the pupa, are called by naturalists Hamimeta-boUc insects. Finally, we have insects whose metamorphosis is complete; the larva, pupa, and imago, differing greatly from one another in external appearance. The larva is vermiform and the pupa quiescent—such are called Holometdbolic insects. In the first division are included the order of Anoplura—an order which comprises certain parasitic insects, sometimes found on man and animals. In the second division we have the order of Hemip-tera, or plant-lice, field-bugs, boat-flies, cochineal insects,
400	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and the cicadas; as also the order of Orthoptera, such as - crickets, grasshoppers, locusts, cockroaches, etc. To these we may add the order of Neuroptera, or dragon-flies, Mayflies, caddis-flies, ant-lion, and the termites. In the last division we have, first, the order of Diptera, or house-flies, flesh-flies, gnats, forest-flies, crane-flies and gad-flies; secondly, the order of Lepidoptera, or butterflies and moths ; thirdly, the order of Hymenoptera, or bees and wasps; and finally, the order of Coleoptera, commonly known as beetles.
I believe I have made use of some terms that need an explanation. They are “ larva,” “ pupa ” and “ imago.” Ths larva (Latin larva, a mask) was so called because it was thought to mask the form of the perfect insect. The larva of butterflies and moths are called caterpillars; those of beetles, grubs; and those of two-winged flies (Diptera) maggots; the larva of other insects have no special name. The pupa takes its name from the Latin—pupa, a doll—and is that stage of insect life when the larva wraps itself up in a cocoon and remains quiescent for an indefinite period; this state is sometimes also called the chrysalis. After remaining torpid in this shell for a time, it breaks forth as the perfect winged insect, or imago. But how does it do this ? If any one ever takes the pains and musters sufficient patience to watch the operation, he will never forget the enjoyment caused by it. Generally, the bursting of the chrysalis takes place at the dawn of day, as if the allvivifying orb of light gave force to the insect to come forth from its tomb. Let us stand and watch how the skin of the chrysalis bursts open, first near the head, then with arduous grappling a small being, climbing out of his grave, so to speak, all moist, puffed, and shapeless. Fatigued with its laborious effort, it pauses a while, then stretches out its antennae, and keeps up a rapid vibration, whilst moving them to and fro as if to explore the atmosphere that was hitherto unknown and forbidden. Next the legs are unfolded from under the thorax, and the insect walks once or twice around the shell of the chrysalis as if it abandoned it with reluctance. From the flanks, and in the position of the wings, hang down two club-like objects, which are in reality the wings, and need only be expanded to complete the new being. Now, by a slight effort, air is admitted into the tracheae, it escapes into the nerves of the membranatious wings, drying up the liquid with which they are drenched, and pressing them out into their proper shape. Then the insect sets up in them a rapid vibration, turning them alternately to the drying air, and in a minute later they have attained their regular size. Soon a glow of heat, wafted by the rays of the sun, strikes the torpid insect; it darts off without fear, beating the air with its wings in measure; the elastic fluid bears it up, and as it advances in this subtle medium, it appears to hold in contempt the earth that nourished its infancy; imagining itself more kingly than the king of creation, it soars away, enamored of liberty, buoyant with life, and elated by the sunshine. As it advances from flower to flower, it drinks in the nectar of their calyx, which henceforth will be its sole nourishment.
But let us not imagine that the phenomenon of metamorphoses is confined solely to the insect world. No: we find this in all classes of animals. The bird comes forth from the egg entirely naked, and it is afterward that it receives its coat of feathers, with their manifold beautiful colors. The frog appears first in the shape of a fish, destitute of limbs'and provided with a tail; gradually the tail is ab‘
4
sorbed and limbs bud forth, the breathing organs in the shape of gills are absorbed also, and lungs are developed to perform the functions of breathing. We could enumerate countless numbers of examples of transformation, but let these few suffice. Nature is unlimited in everything, and man with all his genius and power of mind is not able to study it entirely; he must be contented with the little he is able to glean from the large volume which God has placed before him, and be contented with the saying of the pcet,	•
“Where ignorance is bliss ’twere folly to be wise.”
.	A. M. K.
The Present Condition of Italy.
On reading the accounts which appear from time to time in reviews, newspapers, etc., of the deplorable state of Italy, one is irresistibly led to institute a comparison between the present state of that country and that of former times, when, under the Popes, that “Garden of Europe” enjoyed the beneficence of these their ever vigilant and paternal rulers. By such a contrast it may be seen more clearly how miserable the impiety and iniquity of the usurpers of the papal sovereignty has failed in the realization of what they expected—a more prosperous issue.
A description given in the Whitehall Review by a modern English novelist tells a doleful tale of the actual condition of that Italian kingdom for which Garibaldi, Cavour, Victor Emmanuel, and the rest, were so fond of predicting so glowing and prosperous a future.
Ouida—who, by the way, is not necessarily worthy of praise or of commendation for all that she has written—has of late made Italy her abiding place, and continues to give a considerable share of time and attention to matters transpiring under her observation. It is in Rome she chiefly resides, and it waq the action of the Government in regard to these monuments in which Rome abounds—monuments pagan as well as Christian—priceless monuments, standing testimonies of what Rome did and believed in back centuries, and which she now sees doomed to destruction, that first aroused her indignation.
Ouida has enthusiastically advocated the. preservation of those relics, so venerable and at the same time so attractive. Graphically does she describe the times, the thoughts, and the deeds they were destined to perpetuate. A diligent student and a careful observer, the accomplished author casts aside the veil of prejudice, and penetrates at once to the secret of Italian misery and distress. She speaks in glowing and eloquent terms of the Papal sovereignty, and holds up to derision the rulers of the new dynasty. She shows from facts that the nation is in a state of bankruptcy; the nobility, the middle, and the poorer classes being alike “ impoverished, discontented and alarmed.” Honesty, commercial or otherwise, she brands as a farce; religious liberty, nothing better than a myth; and she declares emphatically that under a Government nominally Catholic, a sincere Christian finds that he is an object of contempt, and in consequence of his honest convictions every public office is closed against him. As for political freedom, it is but a “shadowy sham,” inasmuch as the despotism of paid officials prevails. This bureaucracy, day by day assuming more gigantic proportions, is the curse of the entire Italian administration; for, all these officers being allowed votes they carry the majority. So much for freedom! What is the necessary consequence of all.this?
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. *	401
The people are oppressed, demoralized, weighed down; the offices are crowded; the state of the finances is in a deplorable condition,—in a word, the nation is insolvent; and, to add to this, taxation is crushing the people to the last extremity. Ouida warns the English press against giving credence to the delusive stories of Italian prosperity, and tells them to leave off repeating the foam of flattery and the bubbles of bombast, with which the public men of Italy strive to fill her ear and mouth. What a contrast! compare this ghastly picture of that fair land with the Italy of the Popes!
To Rome, Christian Rome, are we indebted for much that we possess—schools, colleges, and hospitals; the tillage of uncultivated land, the construction of roads, the enlargement cf towns and villages, the institution of post-houses and inns; arts, trades, and manufactories,—commerce, internal, and external; laws, civil and political,—everything, in a word, has emanated from Rome. It was her influence that tamed the savages, that transformed even our own ancestors from barbarians to a state of civilization.
If we remember rightly there was a time when in Rome poverty was not a crime; yet there was then in the Eternal City, as elsewhere, persons “ashamed to beg,” and who would rather endure the most extreme want than make their distress known to others. Rome had also at this time a ruler and a Father to soothe the pains of the suffering and alleviate their wants’; yet mendicancy was never encouraged, nor was there room around the papal throne for a single parasite or an idler.
But, for the satisfaction of our readers, let us take a cursory glance at what has been done by Pontiff after Pontiff for the welfare of their subjects from the days of Pius VI to those of Pius IX.
It was Gregory XIII that prepared the monastery of St. Sixtus for the reception of the destitute; and it was Sixtus V who assigned some houses near the Ponte Sisto as an asylum for the relief, and the seclusion of mendicants. Industrial relief, however, was one of the most important branches of charity administered in Rome. Although the Popes devote much attention to the safety of objects so dear to the scholar and the man of taste, yet the public works were undertaken with a view to the industrial relief of the persons who would otherwise be idle, perhaps utterly destitute. The use of industrial relief, which the Branch Administration used advantageously as a means of employment, as well as restoring to light many half-buried monuments of ancient art, was borrowed from the example of Sixtus V and Innocent XII. Leo XII took the same means, and used it for the same end. Gregory XVI greatly increased the annual sum devoted to this purpose; but the liberality of Pius IX far surpassed that of his predecessors, as may be seen by the many works which he had carried out. A sufficient proof may be here established, from the class of men employed, that the work was undertaken with the sole view of giving employment. The men employed were, in fact, scarcely able to wield the pickaxe or trundle the wheelbarrow at the base of some ancient monument. Removing obstructions, directing dangerous streamlets in a safe channel, and casting away rubbish which centuries had accumulated, such was the light work they had to do.
Where now are the numerous asylums in which old age and infirmity were sheltered ? where are those hospitals for temporary relief, such as those of St. Giulia and St. Luigi T Then, there was no badge of degradation, no such term as “ pauper,’’ no “guardians of the poor ’’ to curtail their fare,
no selfish rate-payers to grudge them their happiness. Age and infirmity were a sufficient title for the care they were receiving.
But Rome already feels that she is in bondage. She haa sold herself into slavery, and already is entire Italy getting discontented, for now does she
“ In the flay of her mourning, Remember the bright things that blest her of old. ”
P. J. M.
The Music of Ireland.
Edward Bunting classes the music of Ireland under thre'e heads—the very ancient, the ancient, and the modern. The first includes what is believed to have existed before the introduction of Christianity; the second, what had been composed from that period up to Carolan’s time; and the last begins with Carolan and ends in our own day, “The Lamentation of DeirdrS over the Sons of Usnach;” “The Children of Lir;”the piece called “Er-ragan Morecertain caoinans or dirges, and airs called Ossianic, form the first class. Exclusive of their repute from the earliest Christian times, there are marks of their pagan origin as convincing to the musical expert as certain structural appearances are to the architectural antiquarian. Very many of the airs of the early Christian period come to us like those of the previous one, without the names of their authors. The time of their composition can be only inferred. But, as a fragment of sculptured marble found in the Greece of to-day comes to be described in the museum as “ a foot of Minerva by Phidias,” so the fragmentary music of Ireland can be sometimes ascribed to certain periods and composers, the difficulty of completing the statue from the foot in the same exquisitely perfect style being not greater than that of constructing and rehabilitating the fragment of ancient music.
The style or special character eludes pursuit, and like Apollo chasing Daphne, the anxious lover catches something else than what he sought. There are several of the one-part Irish airs to which the finest composers of Ireland and of Italy have in vain attempted to add the lost second part—a second part which would satisfy the taste and judgment as equally perfect and sui generis as the first and as its natural and legitimate offspring. The spirit of a tune while the tune remains with us, like an immortal spirit lingering upon our earth is inviolable. This is exemplified in any one of many Irish airs I might mention. “ Aileen Aroon ”—of which Handel said, “ I would rather be the composer of ‘ Aileen Aroon ’ than of all my symphonies and Hallelujahs ”—has had different sets of words put to it in Irish and English by several generations of poets, but the music remains the same. In Scotland it may be slightly changed to adapt it to the words of “Robin Adair,” as several of the melodies were altered to suit Moore’s poetry; but musicians know the true rendering. Boucicault took the setting of the airs he introduced into the Colleen Baton and Arrahna-Pogue from Bunting’s music, not from Sir John Stephenson’s.
The characteristics of the old Irish music are beyond the power of the most gifted pen to describe. A visitor to one of the great picture galleries sees a painting by one of the great masters, representing a sweet scene of rural festivity; youths and maidens with light step and gleeful faces weaving the joyous dance while a shepherd plays
402	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
on the flageolet beside a spreading tree. Sunshine from above, and flowers and fruit and foliage, seem to make the spot the native home of true happiness. The eye, well pleased, feasts upon the scene, till, finding in a corner a tombstone, with the inscription, “Et ego in Arcadia, fuif strange feelings softly but swifty steal over the observer, and give to the whole picture a new and deeper meaning. Just so the presence of a certain note or chord after certain musical sequences changes the expression of the Irish melody, and stamps it with its distinctive character. The intervenient tone, like the inscription on the tombstone, has its effect on account of its location. Even on that imperfect instrument, the bag-pipe, ihe effect is at once produced which gives the air its Scotch or Irish character and announces the presence of an Irish melody. The most frequently recurring of these master-tones is the submediant tone, or in other words, the time of E in the scale of G. An instrument called the kaleidophone was invented by zealous musical critics to account for this chord; but, like the fairy Leprechaun of the country, it was “ beyond the reach of art to catch.”
After the introduction of the Norman-French and English into Ireland—as for some centuries they found a settlement only in parts of three or four counties, and the old Celtic families in consequence remained—the bardic succession was preserved. How excellent their music was, the reader has seen from the quotations given from Cam-brensis. At a later period the philosopher Bacon says of the harp of his day, “ No harp hath the sound so mdting as the Irish harp.” Evelyn in his description of the form of the Irish harp of his time says, “Such music did I never before or since hear.” What protest ever was so beautiful as that made against Henry VIII’s law in reference to the Irish fashion of wearing the hair, in the notes of the “ Coolin” ? But when the O’Neills and the O’Donnells left the land, and the persecution of Elizabeth and her successors reduced the Irish to a state of misery only equalled by that which the English themselves endured under Elizabeth’s ancestors, the spirits of music and song, like frightened birds, arose and departed, always returning to their nests, however, with the first faint smile of peace.
One of the most eminent of the harpers of the Tudor or Stuart time was Rory Dall O’Cahan, one of the O’Cahans of the O’Cahan country. He was a blind man. Many of the harpers were the children of the most distinguished Irish families, who, being blind from various causes, found the profession of the harp congenial. O’Cahan’s pieces are—all that we have of them—very fine, and worthy the golden age of music in Ireland. “ Port Mahon ” and “ da mihi manum ” are examples of his style. He visited with some nobles the court of James 'VI of Scotland, before that monarch was called to the throne of England, and played for the royal pedant, who condescended to place his hand affectionately on O’Cahan’s shoulder. One of the lords of the court remarking that such was a condescension the king was not wont to use to any of themselves, O’Cahan said, “ A greater man made free with me,” which the king hearing caused him to demand of O’Cahan who was that greater man. “The O’Neill, sire,” answered the patriotic bard. Sir Walter Scott introduces O’Cahan in the Legend of Montrose under his two first names, “ Rory Dall,” as “ the most famous harper of the western Highlands.” (Strange how lightly the dwellers north of the Tweed value the obligations of the seventh commandment!) Gerald O’Daly and Miles O’Reilly of KHlincurran succeeded O’Cahan as “ the
most famous harpers” of their day. The beautiful air “ Lochabar,” was composed by the latter during a tour in Scotland, whose people appreciated, though they could not imitate, Erin’s “ masters of the lyre.”
The greatest of those of the ancient school of whom we have authentic records was Thomas Connellan. He was born at Cloonmahon, in the County of Sligo, in 1640. O’Neill, a celebrated harper, of whom I shall speak further on, called him “ the great harper.” Unlike many of his musical brethren, he enjoyed the blessing of sight. He was of good family, was well educated, and possessed gentle, manly and engaging manners. He became exceedingly popular in Ireland, as the following verses from an ode addressed to him, translated by the late Mr. Hardiman, of Galway, from the Irish, testify :
“Enchanter, who reignest
Supreme o’er the North, Who hast wiled the coy spirit Of true music forth;
In vain Europe’s minstrels To honor aspire, • When thy swift, slender fingers Go forth on the wire.
“ There is no heart’s desire Can be felt by a king, That thy hand cannot snatch From the soul of the string, By the magical virtue
And might of its sway; For, charmer, thou stealest Thy notes from a fay.”
O’Connellan was the composer of “ The Dawning of the Day,” “Love in Secret,” and many other beautiful airs, most of which are now lost. When he visited Scotland, the people of that country became enamored of him, and made him a “ baillie,” or magistrate of the city of Edinburgh, where he died. He bestowed on many of the airs which he composed in Scotland, names such as “ Bonny Jean,” indicative of the soil on which they originated, and gave an astonishing impetus to the musical talents of the patriotic peasantry of the Lowlands and the Highlands, who finding the harp too costly and difficult an instrument, filled the lochs and glens of Scotia with the echoes of his strains upon the bagpipes; and it is most probably to the inspiration derived from these sweet, suggestive strains that Caledonia owes the greatest cf her song-writers. There is a centenary of Burns, and great festivals have been held in honor of Moore, and statues erected to commemorate those great lyric poets; but, alas! how few bless the memory, or even know the name of their master and inspirer—the Prometheus who stole from heaven for them the sacred fire. ’Tis little more than a hundred years since he lived. Where are his descendants in Scotland or in Ireland ? Ye antiquaries and genealogists, look to this! Here lived a greater than Guelph or Ghibelline, to whose breathings, even now, the airs of heaven soften. The Hetman of the Don hears his music at the fair of Tobolsk, and his heart grows mild; the prisoner in his hard, cold cell feeds his brave spirit on the virtuous whisperings of his music; the belated traveller is not alone nor in the dark, the void and the darkness are filled as he whistles O’Connellan’s bright creations; the boatman of San Francisco lightens his labor with his song; and when that poor exile of Erin listens to him, his hea/rt is away in “ The green Woods of Truiga.”
We do not honor great souls as they were honored in
'	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	403
I ancient tinieg for the goodness with which they enriched *	the world. Of all those whom we honor (excluding the
5	inspired of God), how many can be placed in the first
t rank? Homer, certainly, the father of song, “the blind . r bard of Chios’s lonely isle,” who, in the absence of revela-1	tion, made	a kingdom of heaven, and peopled it with the
/	immortals	of Olympus. Who next? Dante is worthy—
।	Dante, the	Christian, the enchanter, the teacher, the suf:	ferer, who	directs the minds of men to immortal things,
;	opens the	clouds, and gives us a glimpse of the eternal
f " splendors, or shows us in the yawning abyss the frightful, | everlasting home of the evil-doer. Who next ? Mozart ? :	Oh! yes. All hail to thee, Mozart 1 Angels listen to such
k.	strains as poured from thy pure soul to Heaven, and are
now repeated, from the rising to the setting of the sun, from convent and cathedral choir round this planet of t ours. Greater than this the sons of men know not. As ,*■	John among the twelve, is he in the assembly of the great-
I	est bards of earth. Who shall be placed beside these three ?
v Who but he who combines simplicity and purity with height and depth of soul and feeling never surpassed; who is known by his good works in every land, himself the great unknown; the fountain of joy, which summer cannot dry nor winter freeze; who dispelled many a sigh, but never a raised a blush; who knows no difference between men, but spreads the feast for all, and speaks in the same lan* guage; the representative bard to whom the old bards left their cloaks—alas! the only one of them with whose works and life history makes us tolerably acquainted—that son of Connaught, who was called by all other bards of his day ’ “the great harper,” by composers who came after him, ' “the great composer,” whom the elder and the younger Scots loved—the so little known and seldom named Thomas O’Connellan.
O’Oonnellan’s sun had not long set when that of Carolan r arose, the interval being illumined by a galaxy of milder lights, in .which the stars of Murphy, Keenan, and Lyons 1 shone forth most conspicuously. In Walker’s Memoirs of the Irish Bards will be found a most interesting account of Keenan and Lyons, whose friendship was remarkable even in Ireland, the land of warm hearts. Keenan was the greater harper and musical genius; but Murphy added to x his great musical talents the gift of poetical inspiration rarely equalled. Lord Mayo was Keenan’s patron; but the f patron and the bard having a dispute, the latter left the Castle. After a period of absence and wandering, he was induced to return, and then was produced that charming air, “ Lord Mayo.”
r The “County Mayo” is sometimes called,“The Lament of Thomas Flavelle,” or Lavelle, and was composed by a * sweet bard of that name, of the Island of Baffin, off the Mayo coast.
“ Lord Mayo,” as translated by Furlong, begins thus:
“ Here I rest, my wanderings ending; Here the generous wine we quaff;
*	Here where sunny smiles are blending
With the song and jest and laugh.
►	May the powers above presiding
On our host each bliss bestow, Evermore his footsteps guiding Far from guilt and free from woe.”
Cornelius Lyons was a contemporary and friend of Carox Ian’s. He was harper to the Earl of Antrim, and was a man of good manners and attainments.
5 Lyons was the last of the bards who composed and
played in the pure style of the older days. Only one of his melodies has been preserved, “Miss Hamilton”; but hia variations to the “ Coolin,” “ Aileen Aroon,” “ CaUeena, a lock a shiv Shearsa?" and other pieces, prove his graceful and elegant genius.—Peters' Musical Monthly.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Wagner’s health is daily improving.
—Remenyi’s three violins are worth over $13,000.
—The latest version—or perversion—is: “Better late than hardly ever! ” Next.
—§500 per week is to be paid to Mr. Levy for playing at -Coney Island next summer.
—John Boyle O’Reilly, the editor of the Boston Pilot, is said to be at work on another story.
—According to the Boston Transcript musicians are judged by the accompaniment they keep.
—“Pinafore” is about to close-its run in London, when “ The Pirates ” will be brought out there.
—The Princess Louise has invited Mr. Arthur Sullivan to visit her at Ottawa, Canada, and he has accepted the invitation.
—A Bostonian has written a burlesque on Messrs. Gilbert and Sullivan’s latest opera, calling it “The pie rates of Penn’s aunts.”
—The conductorship of the Leeds, (England) Musical Festival has been offered to Mr. Arthur Sullivan. He will probably accept it.
—The last nights of “The Pirates of Penzance” in New York are announced. The Company will appear in Brooklyn, March Sth, for one week.
—A telegram informs us that Samuel Franks, a young American violinist—pupil of Joachim—has made his • debut in Paris, with gratifying success.
—The work entitled, “Vestiges of the Natural History of Creation,” is now generally admitted to have been written by the late Dr. Robert Chambers.
—For the benefit of the Irish Relief Fund, Mr. W. H. Sherwood will soon give two concerts in Boston. Mr. Sherwood is still compelled to use crutches.
—The London Athenaeum says that about fifty forged Babylonian tablets in terra cotta, having dates from Nabu-chodonosor to Darius, have been sent to London for sale. They are supposed to hale from Bagdad.
—Professor H. Draper’s photographs of the spectra of the stars Arcturus and Capelle shows that their chemical composition is almost exactly like that of the sun; while that of Vega and Aquilse is totally different.
—Miss Annis Montague very properly declined to sing in “ Pinafore ” or any other opera on Sunday evenings, so the manager of the San Francisco theatre closed his doors on those nights. Every prima donna should take the same ground.
—A new weekly periodical, the Troubadour, has appeared in London. It proposes to unite with information about all that concerns art, in the widest meaning of the word, literary articles, tales, poems, and other more or less original contributions.
—The New York Musical Review copies from the Boston Herald the accusation that Mr. Gilmore is a plagiarist; that the first eight bars of “ Columbia ” are an exact transcript from the “Marche du Sacre ” of L. Antony Lamotte, published many years ago in Paris. Mr. Gilmore is in good company. Tennyson is also accused of plagiarism, and there are people silly enough to believe the accusation.— Boston Musiccd Record.
—Arthur Quarterly is engaged upon a large sized canvas that he intends to exhibit at the Artists’ Fund Exhibition. It is entitled, “ Waiting for the Wind,” and represents a group of small sailing vessels becalmed, and with their sails hanging in folds ready to catch the first puff of a returning breeze. It is an early, morning effect, and the
404	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
treatment of the uncertain light is one of the happiest points in the picture. The artist is now acknowledged to be one ot the strongest marine painters in America, and his progress, especially within the Last twelve months, has been exceedingly rapid.
—The third volume of the political correspondence of Frederick the Great has lately appeared. It embraces the very remarkable year of 1744, al the time when England, Saxony, and Hungary were forming a coalition against Prussia. Many letters treat of the efforts made to win the Russian Court. The letters are also very numerous which speak of the rupture with England, the understanding with France, and the events of the campaign. The correspondence will certainly excite much interest, as it contains the criticism of Frederick the Great on the state of politics in Europe.
—The 7th of March next will be the Feast of St. Thomas Aquinas, and on that day, fifty years back Gioacchino Pecci, then a student, made a public disputation in science. To commemorate the double event Leo XIII will, on the 7th ot March, 1880, receive in solemn audience the representatives of universities, academies, scientific bodies, institutes, seminaries, and colleges, and also professors and students from all parts 'of the Catholic world. These deputations will be headed by Bishops and Prelates, and the organizer of this important demonstration is Mgr. Tripepi, who arranged so successfully a year ago the deputation of the Catholic Press. On the 6th of March mere will be a preliminary meeting, and on the morning of the 7th Mass will be said at the altar of St. Thomas, and a sermon will be preached. The audience with the Pope will be followed in the evening by a special extraordinary meeting of the Arcadia. Those who wish to take part in this demonstration are requested to furnish their names to Mgr. Tripepi, and will present addresses, or offerings themselves in person, or by their representatives, to the Holy Father.
—The annual ladies’ night of the Boston Papyrus Club brought together at the Review House, in the above named city, on the evening ol the 19th ot February, a company of a hundred and fifty ladies and gentlemen. At this “ feast of reason and flow of soul ” an address was delivered by the President of the Club, Mr. Towle, in which he explained the nature and significance of the Papyrus. After the President’s address, Mr. H. M. Rogers read a delightful comic poem giving the position of the Papyrus on “ The Woman Question,” as illustrated by Adam and Eve. Col. Higginson and Governor Long responded to toasts. Mr. John Boyle O’Reilly read-a poem entitled “Love’s Secret.” Rev. George H. Ellis responded in a most graceful manner to a toast in which his name was coupled with that of Boston. Mr. B. E. Wolf read a poem entitled “ What is Woman? ” which was well received. Mr. E. B. Haskell, the editor of the Boston Herald, made a speech on “ Journalism.” Mr. Nat. Childs contributed a poem, and Dr. R. D. Joyce a song, entitled “Fair Gwendaline and Her Dove.” It is needless to add that the the evening was a most joyful one; and in this festival, as in others ot a similar nature, the Athens of America showed off to good advantage.
Exchanges.
—The ne^ board of editors of The Chronicle, University of Michigan, is as follows: Managing Editor, N. W. Haire; Various Topics, C. L. Dubuar; Things Chronicled, J. M. Brewer; Exchanges, J. L. Ambrose; General Literature, C. A. Towne; Secretary and Treasurer, Max Zinkeisen; Personals, F. M. Townsend; Literary Notes, W. Boughton. The retiring board leave an excellent record. We wish their successors equal, if not greater success. Since writing the above, the first number of their paper has reached us, and it does them credit. Far from bringing e The Chronicle down from the high position it has already attained, the new board seem determined to elevate it still higher.
We know our readers will be gratified to learn that the subscriptions to the Western Watchman for the year 1880, thus far received, have trebled the number received during the same
period of 1879. If this increase continues, we will have at the close of the year the largest circulation of any Catholic paper in the country. We would ask our friends to assist us to this end, and would also ask our old subscribers to renew their subscriptions promptly.—Western Watchman, St. Louis, Mo.
The first few lines of the above item are gratifying. The Western Watchman is a live paper, its editor a ripe scholar, and his wit needs no touch of the grindstone or emery wheel to give it edge or point. We are glad of the success of his paper, and wish it as. much more.
—The present number of The Harp for March, contains reading matter of a very pleasing and instructive nature. Its contents are: The Famine in the Land (Poetry); The D’Altons of Crag: An Irish Story of ’48 and ’49; Easter Morning (Poetry); Canadian Essay: Education; A Few Words on the Ogam Monuments of Ireland; Irish Faith and Nationality ; Chit-Chat; The Battle of Cremona; Indian Lyrics (Poetry); The Religious History of England; Is a Change necessary in the present system of Land Tenure in Ireland; Meagher’s Sword Speech; Extracts from Father Burke’s Lectures; Bernard Develin, Q. C. (Portrait and Sketch); Vitiated taste for Reading; Literary Miscellany; Anecdotes of Swift; Gems of Genius; For the Young Folks; Literature: Facetiae; Notable Anniversaries in March.
—The South-Bend Saturday Tribune is an exceedingly neat and readable paper.—Laporte Argus.
Of course it is. Why shouldn’t it be neat, under the careful personal management of Messrs. Crockett & Banning, first-class printers both of them, and members of the firm; both are thoroughbred gentlemen, as well as practical printers. And why should it not be readable, and more than readable, coming from such able and scholarly editors as Messrs. Miller and Lyon, also members of the firm ? Mr. Alfred B. Miller, editor-in-chief of The Tribune, is an accomplished English scholar, and a gentleman of fine literary culture. Before and during the late civil war, Mr. Miller was a frequent contributor of serial stories, poetry, etc., to Harper's and other magazines, but since he engaged in the newspaper business it has entirely engrossed his time. He was an officer in the army during the war, and although having had several years’ campaigning in the service, he left the army with the same simple and abstemious manners with which he had entered it—entirely free from the small vices to which soldiers, as well as others less exposed, are addicted. He neither smokes nor chews, nor indulges in any kind of intoxicant, and a profane word never escapes his lips. Such a man is Alfred B. Miller, senior editor of The South-Bend Tribune—and. a genial gentleman in every sense of the word.
—The Illustrated Catholic American for Febuary 28th, is an excellent number of this new and handsome periodical. The Illustrations of the present number are: Waiting for a Valentine—full page; The Old Civilization and the New— the first rails laid in Syria; A Plea for Liberty—a Russian peasant trying to force an audience with the Czar; Hippopotamus Hunting in Angola, West Africa—a fine fullpage picture; Picking up a Meal on the Coast of KiUery Bay, The Last Journey to Market, and Bringing Huet from the Hills —three scenes in poor famine-stricken, misgoverned, persecuted Ireland; Breaking up the Zee—scenes of the Marne and Seine, finely shown; with others. Besides the excellent serial stories, and the serial sketches “ Heroes, Saints and Sages,” the articles of the present number of The Illustrated Catholic American are very good. “A Lesson in Geology ” is interesting and insructive; and the poetry of the number is up to a high standard. The Checker and Chess and the Juvenile Departments are characteristic features. The last page, with its gossipy “ Memorabilia ” and personalities, and its handsome illustration for the young folks, is always our favorite page of this excellent periodical. We should like to see this department encroach still further on the space of the paper. We hope “ Toto’s Dream of Paradise” will have as worthy a successor when the twenty-two tableaux are completed. The subscription price of The Illustrated Catholic American is $3 a year. Publication Office, 11 Barclay Street, New York.
—The last number of The Princetonian has, besides the usual articles on current college matters, some excellent and spicy ones of a literary nature. The first of these,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
405
“Dancing the German,” is a strong plea for calisthenics among students; at least there was one college student who wished he had learned something about dancing before he took a young lady to the german at the house of a friend. “ Cheek ” is well written up. “ Calm, brazen cheek,” the writer says, “ manifests its supremacy under the most trying circumstances. It is always master of the situation. Its virtues are displayed to good advantage in the class-room. AU must acknowledge that as a help over hard places, cheek takes the cake over the most persistent and adroit boot-licking. It is even much superior to that uncertain factor of grade, Reputation.” But here is what we wished to come at: “Il is a fact in physiology not generally known, to which our professor in that branch will certify, that in many specimens of the human race the back bone is composed entirely of cheek." We knew all along we had an idea to express, and couldn’t; this clever Princeton writer has expressed it for us. In the next article, “Confessio Diggionis" the college dig is capitally hit off, and here again the use, or rather the want ot calis-thenic exercises comes in, for without them a fellow’s poetical teet are all spondees, and in somebody’s way or on somebody’s train, at a dancing party........We used to think The Princentonian rather dry reading for outsiders, but the three last numbers have redeemed it wonderfully.
New Publications.
—Turner's South-Bend Annual and Business Mirror for 1880, now on our desk, is a most welcome visitor. Few men possess such a scintillant pen as Judge Turner, and even in a business Annual his talent as a writer shows itself prominently. The Annual is handsomely gotten up; it is printed on tinted paper, and the typography and presswork reflect credit on the printers, the Register Company of South Bend.
—We notice with pleasure the Hymni Sacri ad Benedic-tiones et Novenas, published by the Benedictines at St. Vincent’s Abbey, Westmoreland Co., Pa. This is a neat little pamphlet of 16 pages, containing various hymns, 0 Salu-taris, Tantum Ergos, and Litanies, as found in various books of Gregorian Cnant. They are arranged both for mixed voices and the organ, and are easily executed. It is just what a good choir of Gregorian Chant needs in order to produce an occasional change in the singing, and thereby have variety. The price of this useful pamphlet is 25 cts. a copy, or §2.50 a dozen.
—It seems that Prof. Singenberger (“ Singing Mountain ” or “ Mount of Song,” whichever you please—an appropriate name, by the way) is determined to spare no pains in levelling the hills and filling up the hollows that have heretofore annoyed our small-choir leaders so much. In country places, where enough cultivated voices cannot be had to take up such music as was in general use—all more or less difficult—the poor leader, who hadn’t the “voices” and wished to have any music at all, had to go to work transposing and tinkering “ masses” and motetts in order to make them suit such materials as he had, and the consequence was, that, after a world of labor, and waste of midnight oil, if Mozart, and Haydn, and Lambillotte, and Schmitt, and Dumont, or any other of the Singing Mountains of former times, called in, they wouldn’t know their own music in its new shape, and would go off on their ear. It was the same with the choirs in our female academies (“ colleges ” they are called by some) where no “base” material was admitted, and the base parts of the music being kicked out, the leaders had to patch up the hiatus as best they could. It seems to be Prof. Singenberger’s object to remove the necessity of such razeeing, and patching, and tinkering, in future, by abundantly supplying the want that caused it, and, like Michael Angelo at a block of stone with chisel and hammer, he, figuratively, makes chips enough fly for three men. It is only a lew weeks since we announced several pieces from Prof. Singenberger, and now we have two additional large pamphlets—one of 12, the other of 8 pages. The first is an easy “ Mass in Honor of St. Gall,” for two or three voices—the basso being ad lib.—with organ or melodeon accompaniment (25 cents a copy; 12 copies, §3.50); the second pamphlet contains an “Asperges
me," “ Vidi Aquam," and “ Ecce Sacerdos ” for two voices, soprano and alto, with organ accompaniment The price of the latter is 30 cts. a copy; 12 copies for §3. Pustet of New York, Muhlbauer and Behrle of Chicago, Herder of St Louis, Rohlfmg of Milwaukee, and others, have Prof. Singenberger’s works on sale.
Short Meditations fob Every Day in the Year ; Intended. Chiefly for the Use of Religious. By an Anonymous Italian Author. Translated by Dom Edmund J. Luck, O. 8. B., Priest of the Cassinese Congregation of the Primitive Observance. Prefaced by a Recommendation irom His Eminence Cardinal Manning. New York and Cincinnati: Er. Pustet This is an excellent manual of meditation, replete with heavenly thoughts; and, notwithstanding the many other works of the kind that have lately appeared in an English dress, we have no hesitation in saying that it compares favorably with the best of them, both in arrangement and general plan. The work is in two volumes, 16mo. (price, §2.50), and is prefaced by a recommendation from His Eminence Cardinal Manning, in which this great Prelate says: “Everyone in every state in the world, in the priesthood, and in the cloister, will find in it what is enough for Christian perfection.”
College Gossip.
—The Columbia challenge cup, given by the Juniors, cost §500.—Echo.
—Seven Columbian Seniors are debarred from their degrees on account of chapel absences.—Harvard Echo.
—President Hayes has presented a full-length portrait of himself to the Philomathean Society of Kenyon College.— Ex.
—A graduate of Amherst, ’78, has given an annual amount of §40 for the heavy gymnastic prize.—Harvard Echo.
—A large part of the expenses of the Museum of Com-paritive Zoology is paid by Mr. Agassiz out of his own private fortune.—Crimson.
—The diplomas of the dental departments of Michigan and Harvard are the only ones in America that admit their possessor to practice in the British kingdom.—Madisonensis
—The glass for Princeton’s new telescope has been ordered from Clark, of Cambridge, Mass. It will be twenty-two inches, about the fifth or sixth in size in the world.
—Tutor: “Your writing is so wretched, sir, that I can’t make anything out of it. How have you rendered CasarU bona leges? " Sub-Fresh.—“ Why, the bony legs of Caesar, I believe."—Ex.
—A secret society for lady pupils is said to have been established at the University of Michigan. Well, now that is a pretty good joke. As if the young lady pupils there, or anywhere else, could keep a secret!
—Columbia College has refused to admit women. Now the Acta can rest in peace, and say: “Our work is done; let us now depart this life.”—Yale News. But the Acta doesn’t seem inclined to depart; it displays its usual Activity in other directions.
—“Bethany College was destroyed by fire on the 23d of October—loss estimated at §30,000 ”—is one of the items we find in the last number of an exchange. Was Bethany College located at the antipodes, or in some part of the world so isolated that it took the news three months to reach the United States ?
—The New York Independent publishes in its issue of Feb. 19, a number of opinions from college presidents on the much mooted question of co-education. For ourselves, we have no objection to the higher education of women, but we do think that that the mingling of the two sexes, -even in our high schools and academies, tends to rob the girl of that modest reserve which is the great charm of womanhood. Pres. Seelye, we think, expresses the whole thing in brief when he says:—“ At the age usually attained in a college course, the distinctive traits of each sex require so distinct a treatment that co-education is really a disadvantage to both.”—Amherst Student.
406	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, March 6, 1880.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thirteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.	4
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
is not necessary to mention here—much less so. In future, whether the number of students competing for a medal be large or small, none will be granted unless the student’s examination average exceeds ninety per cent, and the Fac-। ulty of the course for which the medal is granted pronounce him worthy of the honor.
—The devil seems to have a very nice time of it in this nineteenth century. Formerly, he was compelled to work hard in order to keep the less concerned imps engaged in trying all their efforts to destroy men’s souls; but now the principal occupation of these ministers of darkness is taken completely out of their hands, and the old prince himself lives at his ease, and need not bother himself any more about directing his subordinates to tempt men. In fact, all he now has to do is to put it into the mind of some silly woman, or talented, but evil-minded young or old man to write a book—a novel—with an attractive title, and simply direct this personage to put into it a few pictures—pictures the devil himself could not think of—and get the publisher thereof to adorn it with a nice yellow cover, and lay this attractive volume before the eyes of youth—the young and unsuspecting. Then the evil one can stand at hell’s gate with his hands in his pockets, and witness with satisfaction the wholesale destruction of souls.
If a euBcriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
—Rev. Father Zahm delivered, in Phelan Hall, a very interesting and instructive lecture on “The Physical Properties of the Atmosphere ” on Thursday evening last. The lecture was listened to by a large and appreciative audience.
—We are glad to learn that Prof. Tong is preparing a text book for the Commercial Law and Book-Keeping Classes, and that the work of preparing it is already far advanced. The Professor thinks he will have his material completed in time to have the work published and ready for the classes in September next. This, we know, will be welcome news for those in the Commercial Department who will not finish this year. It the whole of the work cannot be ready in time, the Professor intends to prepare such extracts as he considers most important, and put them into the hands of the printer. Prof. Tong has taught for so many years, and with such signal success, that we should not wonder if his work met with a large demand from other educational institutions.
—The Class Medal, is perhaps, the highest honor which a College cau confer, or to which a student can aspire during his College Course. Such being the case, a high order of merit is naturally looked for in the'recipient. To make sure of this in every case, an important decision of the Faculty of the Univertity of Notre Dame in regard to class medals has lately been reached. There are many courses of study pursued in the University for which these medals are granted; in some the competition is extremely lively; in others—for causes which
Never, perhaps, in the history of the Church did society stand in greater need of being thoroughly imbued with the principles of sound Christian philosophy than it does today.
Both in England and America the inroads which infidelity has been making for the past few years, upon the faith and morals of the people, are most sad and alarming. Various aspects does this infidel movement assume; at one time, it is called Materialism; at another, Atheism, or positivism; then again, Darwinism, or Communism; but its principal object is to deny the existence of God and the soul, thereby leaving us nothing, save sense and matter.
When we consider the moral tendencies of these Godforsaken doctrines, it is not by any means difficult to see how such systems reckon so many followers.
Let a man force himself into the belief that God does not exist—that everything he feels like doing is lawful—that there is no such thing as conscience, then, indeed, life would be very enjoyable and pleasant. But if all mankind were to think after this fashion, society and the world at large would present a strange appearance indeed. Laws would no longer be obeyed, since men would recognize no Supreme Lawgiver. The rights of property would cease to exist, for the simple reason that men would admit no such right. Robbery, licentiousness, and crime, in all their varied forms, would be the order of the day, simply because man, stifling the voice of conscience, and denying the im-mortailty of the soul, would give vent to his passions, and act according to his corrupt inclinations.
This is the logical tendency of infidelity. The Church knows it, and, knowing it, she supplies the remedy.
Pope Leo XIII, in his late Encyclicals clearly demonstrates the fact, that bad and distorted philosophy is at the bottom of the religious errors of this God-forsaken nineteenth century of ours; and it is in order to grapple with the evil, and to establish a reliable standard, that the Soverign Pontiff calls upon all Catholic institutions of
?	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	407
* ___________________________________________________________
i learning to use the works of that greatest of Christian 1 philosophers, St. Thomas Acquinas, in the Angel of the Schools.
- At present, Pope Leo XIII has several eminent prelates r engaged in compiling philosophical text-books from the . “Summa” of St. Thomas, and when they are complete and issued, it is to be hoped that they will be introduced into every Catholic institution of learning throughout the ! length and breadth of the land.	•
If there is anything ennobling in a youth—if there is any!	thing that elevates him in the minds of his companions, it
" is a love of truth and a hatred of falsehood. Who can have any confidence or trust in one who has been known to pollute his lips by saying what he himself well knew was t	untrue—and all perhaps for a selfish motive. The play
entitled “Heartwell at Hamford, or, Firm Friends and Fast Friends,” so well and admirably rendered by the young gentlemen of the Thespian Association, on Wash-t ington’s Birthday, was an illustration of this point, and showed most perfectly that although a young man may go on smoothly for some time by lying, trickery, and deceit, he will be caught in the end, and his anything but manly spirit made apparent to all.
Truth is something so intimately united to God—having * in fact its foundation in God, that it is our first duty to love it, and to have faith in it; for if we love truth we must at the same time love Him who is truth itself, as every beauti-r, ful and grand prerogative that can adorn the soul of man, is found in a pre-eminent degree in the Author of everything good.	*
Truth must be searched for, and adhered to when found, y and we must never allow ourselves to be deceived by a false philosophy, by the false eloquence of those heartless v- and bitter sophists who would sink the world in a sea of .	doubts by assuming nothing as true, nothing as self-evident,
‘	and consequently nothing but doubt, doubt; doubt con-
cerning everything. He who commences to sustain a proposition without having a principle or a truth upon 4 which he may base his arguments, is like a man throwing chaff against the wind. His labor is all to no purpose. He bases his arguments upon something doubtful, or he draws his conclusions from false premises, and the result "	of all this must be nothing more or less than a doubtful one.
“Reason,” as a certain French author thoughtfully remarks, “ is useless, and also injurious, when turned to combatting truth, to discrediting it, to sustaining ignoble r propositions; when deducing desperate consequences from , the evils dispersed through life, it denies that life is a blessing; when enumerating various apparent disorders of •	the universe, it refuses to recognize in them an order; when
struck by the palpability and the dissolution of bodies, it abhors to believe in a being all spiritual and immortal; when it terms the distinction between vice and virtue a *	mere chimera; when it desires to consider man a developed
ape, and nothing more.”
*	If there is no truth in the world, then our very constitu-
tion is founded on falsehood, the Author of that constitution who is God Himself is also a false principle. He is not truth, He is not an absolutely perfect being, and the con' sequence is that the world is nothing else than a medley of nonsense, nothing but chaos and confusion. But this is absurd, opposed to reason itself, to the very intrinsical 1 < feeling of each and every individual. Truth, then, exists;
God, who is truth itself, exists—all-powerful, all-holy. It is, then, the business of each and everyone to seek for the truth, without being influenced by prejudices or any false or base motive, and then adhere to it when found in all becomingness as a Christian.
There are some who will argue and contend about that of which they actually know nothing; they put forth a pile of words meaningless and useless, and all this, for the want of knowing the question at issue, and building their arguments upon sound and solid principles. It is true everyone is at liberty to assert whatever he pleases, but all should remember the philosophical axiom, “Gratis asseritur, gratis negatur.” This is it and nothing more. God Himself has given us reason as a guide; He does not want us to be duped by the nonsensical assertions of this one or that one. And it is only when a higher authority intervenes, the authority of God Himself, who can neither deceive nor be deceived, that the intellect of man is called upon to hold out that free assent to things that it cannot comprehend, and which assent is commonly called faith. By believing then, we only act reasonably, we act simply in a manner conformable to our very nature, and which no one can gainsay and remain anything else than a downright infidel.
Youth is the grand season of life to cultivate a love for truth, and there is ,no place better calculated for this than when pursuing our course of studies in a College or University. We are there prompted by many things to be men of integrity, of stability, of energy and action. Who can read Demosthenes and not feel a love for the spirit with which this great man was actuated ? and so on with the hundred and one other noble characters that come up before us—all eminent in one thing or another—in statesmanship, in generalship; eminent as poets, philosophers, orators, etc., etc. Our college days, then, is the time to fill our souls with noble traits of character, to acquire a manly and noble disposition of mind, so that we may always act our part well, when called upon to face the battle of life on the hard contested field of a cold and cheerless world.
Personal.
—C. Hodler (Commercial), ’78, is in business in Keokuk, Iowa.	•
—R. J. Williams (Commercial), ’79, is assistant postmaster, at Denison, Iowa.
—J. J. Quinn (Law), ’78, is pursuing a course of Theology in St. Mary’s Seminary, Baltimore, Md.
—Hon. John Gibbons, ’68, formerly of Keokuk, Iowa, and Professor of Medical Jurisprudence in the Medical College there, is in business in Chicago. He delivered his valedictory to the Graduating Class of the Medical College at Keokuk, Iowa, the other day.
—Lewis N. Hilsendegen (Commercial), ’70, paid Notre Dame a visit on the 21st ult., and attended the Thespian Exhibition. Lewis is now connected with the Forsyth Scale Works, Detroit, Mich. He has made a trip to Europe since leaving college, and relates a remarkable incident of the accidental meeting of himself and two other Notre Dame students in Dresden.
—We learn from The University that Dr. Benjamin L. Euans, who graduated in the Scientific Course here in ’76, and afterwards took a course or Medicine at the University of Michigan, and taught there for some time we believe, is now practicing at Watseka, Illinois. Dr. Euans while at Notre Dame was, as we learn from some of his many friends here, a general favorite and an excellent student,
408	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
■	and the doable diploma which he possesses is but an
earnest of his good work at both Universities. We wish
■	the Doctor success, and have but little doubt that he will
i	become as popular in his professional career as he was at
.	college.
i	—Rev. D. A. Clarke, Class of ’70, still continues to edit
:	The Catholic Columbian, an interesting and ably conducted
•	weekly published at Columbus, Ohio. In the Columbian's
issue of the 26ih ult., the Rev. editor thoughtfully remarks ;	in regard to the invitation received by him to be present
at the Entertainment given at Notre Dame to commemorate the birth of Washington, and complimentary to our esteemed President, Very Rev. W. Corby: “We are sorry that our duties did not permit us to accept the kind invitation of Rev. Father Walsh, Vice-President of Notre Dame University, to be present at a musical, literary and dramatic entertainment, given last Saturday evening, complimentary to the President of the institution, Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C. We recall to mind, with pleasure, similar entertainments at Notre Dame in days gone by, when the responsibilities of life were not yet realized. These exhibitions are milestones in the student’s year at college, and were always highly appreciated.”
Docal Items.
—The steam-fitters are now at work in the Juniors’ playhall.
—Competitions next week will be in the Commercial Course.
—March did not come in this year like a lion—but like a lamb.
—At present, handball is the favorite game among the Juniors.
—Bulletins for the month of February were made out last Monday.
—There are some good football players in the Junior department.
—Now that the sleighing is at an end, how about burying the dead ?
—Agrand new billiard table now graces the Seniors’ recreation-hall.
—Last Wednesday being a rainy day, the usual field sports could not be indulged in.
—The new Scholasticate is now occupied. Rev. L. J. L’Etourneau is the amiable Superior.
—The St. Cecilians, the pride of the Junior department of the University, are now in a most flourishing condition.
—The instruments lately added to the Band were obtained from St. Joseph’s College, Cincinnati, Ohio, and are in good order.
—Mr. Daniel Douahue, of the Law Class, delivered a lecture on “Bailments” before the 1st Book-Keeping Class, Saturday, Feb. 28h.
—Lost, at Notre Dame on Sunday evening, February 22d, a scarf-ring, The finder will confer a favor by returning it to Bro. Theodore, Senior Department.
—We hope to see the boats soon removed from their winter quarters, and gliding as smoothly as ever on the beautiful waters of the St. Joseph Lake.
—The Orchestra is rehearsing “Dame Blanche” by Boieldieu. This is a favorite overture here, and no doubt will rejoice many on its first presentation.
—Rain prevented the playing of the long expected game of football which was to have taken place between the Juniorsand the Seniors on Wednesday last.
—The plastering of the College extension is almost completed. It seems to us to be very well done; and we think Toledo need not be ashamed of her mechanics.
—In the report of the individuals composing the Juniors’ Football Club, which was given in our last issue, the names of Masters Bodine, Brown, Payro and Foster were omitted.
—The Notre Dame Scholastic, a weekly of great
merit and usefulness, is always welcome to our table. As a medium between the collegian and his home it is invalu--able. The students of Notre Dame should cherish it.— Turner's Annual.
—The members of the Band return thanks to President Corby for the additional instruments he has kindly secured for that organization. The Band is now as well furnished as it could wish to be, and no doubt will make things lively as soon as spring appears.
—Seed Catalogue.—Joseph Harris, of Moreton Farm, Rochester, N. Y., sends us his Catalogue of Choice, Garden and Flower Seeds for 1880. It is sent free of charge to all applicants. Drop him a postal card with your address, and tell him you saw this notice in the Notre Dame Scholastic.
—A beautiful picture, sent by Very Rev. Father General from Paris, to the members of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association, shows that amid the many serious duties which at present engage his attention there, he thinks of the Sorins, and takes a lively interest in their success.
—The Class of Botany has already begun its work of analyzing flowers. The flower given out last Saturday, for Monday, was correctly determined as to genus and species by E. Murphy. Mr. F. Reeve determined the genus, but instead of taking the first species he took the second. The flower was the Stellaria Media.
—The 20th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-patrian Association, was held February 27th. The principal readers and deciaimers on this occasion were: Masters P. Nelson, W. Coghlin, N. Nelson, W. Cleary, E. Croarkin, O. Farrelly, P. Fletcher, F. Becker, L. Larkin, J. Seeger, W. Devitt and Cable. Master C. Perry was elected a member.
—At a meeting of the St Aloysius Philodemic Society, held Tuesday evening, March 2d, the following officers for the present session were elected: Rev. T. E. Walsh, President; J. B. McGrath, Vice-President; W. B. Mc-Gorrisk, Recording Secretary; A. J. Burger, Corresponding Secretary; J. B. Berteling, Treasurer; W. H. Arnold, 1st Censor; G. Sugg, 2d Censor.
—Realizing that a home without a baby is of all things the most desolate, Mr. Marsh and the elder Fassett “ pooled their issues ” and the result is the beautiful though little Sunday Register. It is a thing of beauty, betokening infinite possibilities, unless the gods love it too well. It is a sturdy little “cuss,” and ought to grow fat while leap year lasts.—Turner's Annual.
—Fair weather has set in, and navigation is again open on our lakes. We have no doubt the members of the Boat Club are rejoiced at this, as they can again take an occasional turn at the muscle developing sport on the upper lake. A personal in another column gives tidings of a former popular President of the Club, B. L. Euans, B. S., of ’76, now Dr. Euans, of Watseka, Ill.
—We have read with delight a small volume of poems called “Preludes,” by Maurice F. Egan, a faithful friend of Notre Dame, to aid in the rebuilding of which the volume is published. It is a noble tribute to the University, as well as a highly creditable exhibition of poetic talent on behalf of its author. It is also, we think, a premonition of superior achievements in the near future.—Turner's SouthBend Annual.
—Popular songs—“ I am King o’er the Land and the Sea ” —A beautiful bass solo by Will L. Thompson, price 35 cts. “ I’m Wandering in Distant Lands ”—An easy, but very pretty song and chorus, by Calvin Bushey, price 30 cents. All lovers of popular music should order these favorite songs. The two will be mailed for 50 cents. Catalogues sent free on application to W. L. Thompson & Co., East Liverpool, O.
—The following are officers of the Columbian Literary Club for the present session: Director, Very Rev. W. Corby; President, Prof. J. F. Edwards; Hon. President, Prof. J. A. Lyons; Vice-President, T. Simms; Recording Secretary, D. Donohue; Corresponding Secretary, B. Clag-get; Treasurer, W. Connelly; Prompter, R. Keenan; First

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	409
Censor,P. Larkin; Second Censor, R. Campbell; Sergeant-at-arms, T. Conlan; Marshal, R. O’Brien.
—The seventh regular meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary was held February 29th. At this meeting, Master Phillips read a short instruction on “ The Rosary,” R. Semmes told about “ Christmas Time,” N. Nelson read a sketch of the “ Life of St. Thomas of Canterbury,” and Master Otis read an instructive composition on “The Mass.” Masters M. Vedder, P. Fletcher, and C. Schneider were elected members.
—The 24th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philo-irathean Association took place February 24th. At this meeting Masters W. Thompson, M. J. Burns, F. Quinn and J. Homan read well-written essays. Selections from British authors were given by J. Gibbons, W. McCarthy, C. Tinley. C. McDermott, J. O’Neil, F. Grever, E. Otis, and J. Weilzei. W. Weney delivered a declamation in German ; and Masters A. J. Hintze, J. Herman were admitted to membership. Public readers this week are J. A. Gibbons, C. Reilly, J. Guthrie, A. S. Rock, J. O’Neill, G. Foster, E. Otis, and G. Rietz.
—A rehearsal of the Orchestra was held Wednesday morning at nine o’clock. The names of the members of the organization, and the instruments which they, play are as follows: A. J. Burger, B. Claggett, andF. Bloom, first violins; F. Smith, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, and M. Foote, second violins; B. Basil, viola; A. M. Kirsch, clarionette; L. J. Evers, J. Berteling, first and second cornets, respectively; F. Frfird, Trombone; P. M. Kollop and F. Grever, flutes; E. Gooley, French horn; R. Campbell, violin ’cello; T. McNamara, double bass. In a few days some more instruments will be added, and then we may expect to hear some good music, as good perhaps as has ever been heard at Notre Dame.	■»
—The following books from the talented pen of Miss Hemenway, of Burlington, Vermont, have been donated to the College Library by the authoress: “ Rosa Mystica, or Mary of Nazareth, the Lily of the House of David ”; Rosa Immaculata, or the Tower of Ivory in the House of Anna and Joachim; The House of Gold and the Saint of Nazareth, a Poetical Life of Saint Joseph; Poets and Poetry of Vermont; Clarke Papers; Mrs. Meed and her Family; Vermont Historical Gazatteer, Nos. IV, VI, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI, with two separate pamphlets on the history of Essex and Stowe Counties; Fanny Allen, the first American Nun, a Drama in Five Acts; Songs of War. The generous donor will please accept the most cordial thanks of the Librarian for this new, valuable, and appreciated contribution.
jX —Rev. Father Cooney, C. S. C., so well known as a zealous promoter of the instruction of youth, has provisionally donated the whole of his extensive library, consisting of about 1500 volumes, to the College Library. Some time ago he made the liberal offer of the following interesting volumes: Why people do not Believe, by Mgr. Laforet; Elements of Logic, by Rev. J. Balmes; Lenten Lectures, by Rev. Thomas Maguire; Catholicism, Protestantism and Infidelity, by F.X. Weninger, S. J.; Julia, or Sister Agnes, by Rev. J. W. Vahey; Essay on Catholicism, Liberalism, and Socialism, by Don Juan Donoso Cortes; Religion in Society, by Most Rev. John Hughes, D. D.; The Four Gospels, by Right Rev. Bishop Heis; Catholic History of America, by Thomas D’Arcy McGee. The warmest thanks of the Librarian are extended to Father Cooney for his kind and generous donation.
—In last week’s Scholastic there was a “ pointed ” joke aimed at some anonymous individual, stating that the fellow that “sat down” on a crooked pin was a vain, or profane, “ upstart,” or something of the sort. Our friend John is horrified even at the thought of the “crooked” ways of some people, and says that such fellows as go “ angling ” with crooked pins deserve to be soused in the lake, where both themselves and the pin should have been dropped. We advise our friend not to waste words on them, or allow them to harrow his feelings. These fellows will go on in their crooked ways, despite remonstrance, until somebody knocks them flat or straightens them out. Such is the bent of human nature in some, such their hardened, brassy indifference, that moral persuasion doesn’t
affect them in the least; and there is no end to their an gularities until they are “ sat down ” upon.
—The 15th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held Tuesday evening, March 2d. Declamations were delivered by Masters Campau, Tourtillotte, Knight, Dunn, J. Courtney, and T. Van Mourick. Masters Schmuckle, F. Farrelly and Echlin sang comic songs. Very Rev. Father General sent a beautiful picture from Paris, where he now is, upon which was written in his own familiar handwriting, “To the one who acted his part test at the Sorins’ Exhibition. E. S.” By a vote of the Society, the picture was given to Master H. Snee. Another nice picture was presented by a friend of the Association, to be given to the second best. This was awarded to Master Joseph Courtney. Master-L. Young was then admitted to membership. A vote of thanks was tendered Very Rev. Father General for his manifestation of the esteem in which he holds the Sorins.
—“ Procrastination is the thief of time,” and those who are always slow in making out their monthly bulletins ought to remember that they are trespassing unnecessarily on the time which others may desire to devote to other purposes. The day fixed for making out these bulletins is, as all know, the first Wednesday of the month; the hour, eight a. m. There is no earthly reason why all the members of the Faculty—at least all those who live in the immediate neighborhood of the College—should not be present at the appointed time, and the Director of Studies, and Prefect of Discipline, would be spared a world of annoyance and trouble, if all would show themselves obliging enough to be on hand promptly when requested. One worthy individual, through whose hands all the bulletins must neces- -sarily pass, has repeatedly in our hearing declared himself so annoyed by these meaningless delays, that during the last few days of bulletin week he feels himself constantly “ trembling on the imminent verge of profanity.”
—I have received, by mail, from some person in Wisconsin, an excerpt from last week’s Scholastic, with a request for a translation. If the matter were my own, I might favor this friend of mine—“ a reader ” he signs himself—but as the passage in question is an extract from another publication, and as it is barely possible it might meet the writer’s eye, I respectfully decline the office of tutor, or translator, in the present instance. If “ a reader ” will hand the matter to some one in his neighborhood who is even moderately acquainted with the intricacies of the English language, I have no doubt that the matter will be made plain and comprehensible enough for the least educated intellect. The sentences in question are in good, if not elegant English, but of course I would not advise “ a reader,” if a schoolboy, to take it as an example for his compositions. Privileges of this kind should be attempted only by those who are further advanced. If “a reader” had sense enough to do as I have advised him he might have saved his “ stamp ” and paper, but perhaps he has more of these articles than he knows what to do with. If so, he can send me what he may have to spare, and I will put them to good use by handing them over to the Scholastic or to the rebuilding fund. This anonymous correspondent should have addressed his missive to the editor of the Notre Dame Scholastic and not to a Professor who is unconnected with the paper.	E.
—The following is from the educational columns of burner's South-Bend Annual for 1880, just issued: “ When, on the twenty-third day of last April, it became known that the University of Notre Dame and several buildings accessory to the main edifice were a mass of charred and smoking ruins, the friends of liberal culture were distressed, and the hearts of the immediate managers and devoted promoters of that great institution were overwhelmed with discouragement. Particularly was it a source of sorrow, almost despair, to the Father General of his order, ■ Very Rev. E. Sorin, whose energy, industry, and great ability, nay, whose life and all which the term implies had been devoted to the upbuilding of the great school. The first shock over, however, Father Sorin and his noble associates and subordinates, with a determination and zeal which brooks no impediment, addressed themselves to the labor of restoration. Perhaps no work of construction or reconstruction presents a parallel to the rapidity and perfectness of their performances. The celerity with
410
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
which cremated Chicago was rebuilt astonished the world; but Notre Dame surpassess any individual case of enterprise known to that city. In a little over 90 days, plans were matured, funds, material and labor procured, and an edifice, larger, more substantial, safer, more convenient, and, in every particular, better adapted to its uses, than the old one, was ready for occupancy, and an unusual number of students were studying within its walls................. Another year will fihd Notre Dame among the largest, healthiest, most convenient, and best conducted institutions of learning in the country, if not in the world.”
Roll of Honor.
[The nameS'Of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. M. Anderson, R. C. Adams, J. B. Berteling, J. B. Brice, F. M. Bell, F. Brennon, M. T. Burns, B. J. Claggett, J. Casey, B. Casey, T. F. Conlan, W. Connolly, G. E. Clarke, F. Clarke, L. Clements, D. Donahoe, J. Dempsey, D. Danahey, H. J. Delaney, J. Delaney, H. B. Dulaney, G. Donnelly, A Dob-son, H. Deehan, M. English, E. Fogarty, E. Gooley, D. Harrington, G. Harris, W. Hamilton, R. C. Johnson, C. L. Johnson, J. Keena, C. Karins, F. Kinsella, J. Kurz, P. B. Larkin, F. Lynch, E. Lynch, R. Lanham, J. B. McGrath, W. B. McGorrisk, J. McNamara, E. Murphy, J. Molitor, P. McCormick, C. Moore, M. McEniry, J. McIntyre, W. McAtee, M. Maloney, L. Mathers, J. F. Mugg, J. Noonan, G. Nester, H. H. Noble, L A. Newton, R. C. O’Brien, J. O’Reilly, J. Osher, G. Pike, L. N. Proctor, W. Ryan, F. Reeve, T. W. Simms, H. Simms, P. F. Shea, J. Solon, G. Sugg, C. B. Van Dusen, F. Wall, C. Whalen, W. Wilson, A. Zahm, T. Zeien.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Brown, A Burger, C. Brinkman, A. Burmeister, T. Byrne, A. Bodine, A Bachman, F. Becker,'M. Burns, M. Butler, V. Butler, G. C. Castanedo, F. L. Carter, J. V. Cabel, A A Caren, A M. Coghlin, J. Coleman, J. W. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, T. F. Devitt, J. E. Davis, G. W. De Haven, T. F. Flynn, R. E. Flemming, H. G. Foster, H. G. Foote, P. J. Fletcher, J. J. Gordon, F. H. Grever, J. Guthrie, J. A Gibbons, F. Glade, H.G. Guynn,F. W. Groenewald, A U. Hierb, A J. Hmtze, J. A Hermann, A. F. Hellebusch, J. T. Homan, F. R. Johnson, P. A Joyce, J. M. Kelly, F. A. Kleine, J. W. Kuhn, R. -L. Le Bourgeois, S. Livingston, J. A Larkin, F. McPhillips, C. J. McDermott, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy, A 8. Manning, P. P. Nelson, N. J. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, R. E. O’Connor, J. P. O’Neill, E. A Otis, C. F. Perry, R. H. Pomey, F. B. Phillips, A. P. Perley, F. A. Quinn, G. J. Quinn, A. Rietz, C. F. Kietz, W. Rietz, G. J. Rhodius, P. H. Rasche, J. Ruppe, C. Rose, A. 8. Rock, R. J. Semmes, J. K. Sehobey, J. Seeger, J. M. Scanlan, F. C. Sheid, C. Schneider, C. A Tinley, C. H. Thiele, W. M. Thompson, M. A. Vedder, J. B. Weitzel, W. T. Weny, F. Zeis.
MINIM DEPAETMENT.
D. G. Taylor, J. M. Courtney, G. E. Tourtillotte, E. A. Howard, W. H. Hanavin, J. J. Henry, G. C. Knight, A J. Campau, F. Mattes, G. P. Van Mourick, A Van Mounck, H. A. Kill, C. E. Droste, C. C. Echlin, H. P. Dunn, A. F. Schmuckle, A. A. Molander, J. S. Chaves, J. R. Bender, L. J. Young, J. A. Kelly, H. J. Ackerman, W. V. O’Malley, E. C. Campau, E. H. Bourdon, E. N. O’Donnell, C. Young, W. M. Olds, E. L. Oatman, F. B. Farrelly.
Class Honors.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions which are held monthly—Director of Studies.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
J. Mug, J. Brice, E. Gooley, L. Mathers, T. Kavanagh, H, Simms, M. A. Vedder, G. Castanedo, J. Browne, R. Le Bourgeois, J. M. Kelly, C. Roberts, F. Carter, J. Gordon, A. Hierb, B. Zekind, J. W. Guthrie, M. Herrick, R. Pomy, E. Croarkin, F. McPhillips, F. Quinn, A Hellebusch, J. Homan, F. Kleine, J. Larkin, E. Otis, G. Rhodius, H. Bachman, P. Rasche, L. W. Coghlin, O. Farrelly, 8. Dering, A. Manning, N. Weny, T. Devitt, C. Rose, F. Johnson, P. Nelson, J. Simms, W. Thompson, J. Coleman, V. Butler, I. Newton, W. Schofield, L. Conlan, T. Zeine, P. B. Larkin.
List of Excellence.
[In the following list are the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—H. Foote, V. Butler, C. Roberts; Grammar—I. Newton, T. Kavanagh, W. McAtee, R. Lanham, J. McNamara, J. Kelly, C. Roberts, J. Gordon,F. Groenewald, M. Herrick, P. Nelson, M. A. Vedder, J. Simms, A Hierb, L. W. Coghlin, C. Rose, W. Cleary, A. Coghlin, J. Seeger; Arithmetic—J. Simms, C. Roberts, C. Schneider, J. Boose, O. Farrelly, C. Moore, I. Newton, G. Castanedo, R. Le Bourgeois, E. Ewell; Geography and U. S. History—F. R. Johnson, C. Schneider, W. Cleary, A. Hellebusch, R. Pomy, N. Nelson, E. Croarkin, S. Dering; Algebra—T. Flynn, D. Danahy, B. Casey, J. Asher, C. Whalen, E. McGorrisk, F. Grever, J. Casey, E. Otis, R. Keenan ; Latin—A J. Burger, E. Otis, N. Weny, P. Larkin, R. Anderson,G. C. Clarke; Greek—R. O’Brien, J. Homan, A. Zahm, A. Caren, J. Kurz.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University,
—The sermon of Sunday, by the Rev. Assistant Chaplain, was on “ Confession.”
—The Juniors gave a very creditable entertainment in the north recreation-room on the 23d.
—At the regular meeting of St. Agnes’s Literary Society the reading was “ Stories from Modern History.” Reader: Miss C. Campbell.
—At the regular meeting of St. Gertrude’s German Literary Society the reading was “ Zusammenkunft Friedrichs und Kaiser Josephs. Readers: Misses Smith and Greene-baum.
—At the regular meeting of St. Catharine’s Literary Society the reading was “ The Grotto,” from “ Holiday Conversations,” by the author of “Tyborne,” and selections from literature. Reader: Miss Dallas.
—At the regular meeting of St. Teresa’s Literary Society subjects for essays were given. The reading was the “Introduction to Father Burke’s Lecture on Ireland.” Readers: Misses Keenan and Kirchner. Valuable suggestions on the subject of essay writing were made.
—At the regular meeting of St. Angela’s Literary Society the reading was “ Hart’s Literature,” and miscellaneous selections. Readers: Misses Zahm and Hammond. Historical notes, derived from the reading of the previous meeting, were given by Miss Wall.
The singing in honor of St. Joseph at Mass on Monday morning, by the Children of Mary, was very sweet After the Elevation, the grand old hymn of St. Thomas seemed more touching than ever, uttered by pure young voices—a fitting tribute to his approaching festival on the 7th inst.
—At the regular meeting of St. Clotilde’s French Literary Society the reading was “ Petits Portraits—La Grande Lemo\sdle trap tot ”—by T. d’Aatimorre. The Misses Dallas, Semmes, A. Ewing, Cavenor, Cortright, Campbell, and S. Wathen gave spirited, correct, and entertaining accounts of the reading.
—Visitors: Mrs. Cullen, Mr. Richey, Chicago; Miss Finnegan, Summit, Ill.; Mrs, Jennings, Mrs. Hill, Battle Creek, Mich.; Mrs. Julius, Master Julius, Mr. Cooper, Mr. Hoadley, Niles, Mich.; Miss Lowry, Elkhart, Ind.; Mr. McEnsry, Rock Island, Ill.; Mrs. Tweedale, Constantine, Mich.
—A generous contribution to the fund for procuring an appropriate statue to surmount the dome of the new University has been received. The donor is Mrs. M. B. Salisbury, Graduate of the Class of ’75, who now resides in Helena, Montana. A like zeal on the part of each member of the Soliciting Committee would soon secure a beautiful statue.
—The monthly Exposition and Adoration of the Blessed
.■rW'	*
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	411
Sacrament for the Archconfraternity of the Perpetual Adoration opened the Month of St. Joseph, which is a special one of the Institute. At Benediction, the Rev. .	Chaplain gave an instruction on “ The Earthly Trinity
L	of Nazareth,” and made many impressive reflections on
the consistency, as well as beauty, of devotion to '< St. Joseph. As January is consecrated to the Holy Infancy, and May, to Mary, the Holy Mother of God, ,	so March is set apart to honor St. Joseph, Patron of
!	the Universal Church. Lilies bloomed their fairest, and
'	tuberoses exhaled their richest perfume, to pay their mute
L but loving tribute to the Guardian of Purity, while they were symbolizing the adoration paid to Christ Jesus, > very Innocence, who was committed to his care.
,	—Rosa Mystica, Vol. VI, No. Ill, was read at the regul	lar Academic reunion. Editors—Misses Silverthorne, Cav-
j	enor and Kirchner. Contents: Editorial—Visit of Rt. Rev.
*	Bishop Dwenger; The Question of the Exhibition Hall;
j	The Graduates in Music; A Half-holiday, Not much like
\	a Journey from Lancaster to Florida, Ky., but Somewhat,
“ True Liberty; A Gift to the Statue; Welcome to the Month of St. Joseph; Conquerors of Pannonia; A Ramble Through > the Domain of English Literature; Ostrogoths and Visigoths; Destroyers of the Roman Empire; The Christian ■	Art Society; Systematic Thought, the Basis of a Solid
Education; The First Senior’s Eccentricities of Speech. Rosa Mystica closed with a selection from Eleanor C. Donnelly—“The Lenten Vigil.” Some very valuable hints as to the charac ter which should mark the books and authors ’	to be read by young ladies were made by the Rev. Chaplain
SEMI-MONTHLY REPORT OF THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Glass—Misses Galen, Keenan, Dillon. 1st Class —Misses Gordon, Buck. 2d Div.—Misses Usselman, Neu, Sullivan. 2d Class—Misses Kirchner, McGrath, Rosing, Killelea, Farrell, Campbell. 2d Drv.—Misses McMahon, Hackley. 3d Class—Misses Semmes, Callinan, Gall, Salomon, Bruser, Reinhard, Wells, Piersol, Dallas, Cortright, Maloney. 2d Div. —Misses C. Hackett, Julius, E. Hackett. Bischoff, Donnelly, 7	Woodin, English, A. Ewing, Horner. 4th Class—Misses Da-
vis, Crummey, Price, Palmer, Cavenor, C. Campbell. 2d Div.— ;	Misses French, Garrity, Otto, Hamilton, Fox, Mitchell, Leydon,
F	Van Namee. 5thClass—Misses Wurtzburg, O’Connor, Regens-
burg, C. Wathen, Purdy, Claffey, Loeber, Keys, Danaher, Casey, O’Neill, Paddock, Gavan, A. Dillon. 2d Div.—Misses Orr, Dessaint, Harrison Gibbons, Hutchinson, Legnard, Lancaster, J. Wells, Hammond, Feehan, 3. Wathen, Reutlinger, Wall, Populorum, C. Lancaster, Simms, E.Populorum, Lloyd, Moxon, Tallman, Thompson, Fitzgerald. 6th Class—Misses Rasche, .	Fleming, Barlow, Duncan, Greenebaum, Murphr, McFadden,
Neteler, De Lapp , Baroux, Ryan, Chirhart, E. Ryan, Papin, Carter. Classed—Miss Knighton. 2d Div.—Misses Fishburne, A	Ginz, G. Taylor, Zimmerman, Ward, Clarke, Edelen, Taylor,
i	Cox, Moll, Wilkins, Wright, Lemontey. 7th Class—Misses
Engel, Halloran, E. Lloyd, McCormick, Smith, McCoy, Reynolds, McCloskey. 8th Class —Misses Butts, B. Garrity, Cleghorn, Heeney. 9th Class—Misses M. Fitzgerald, Chaves, M. Baroux. 10th Class—Misses P. Ewing, T. Ewing, Strawn.
Harp 1st Class—Miss Galen. 2d Div.—Misses Semmes, Dil,	Ion. 3d Class—Miss Bruser.
'	Organ—Misses C. and S. Wathen.
Technical Exercises—Misses Galen, Dillon, Keenan, Buck, »	Gordon, Sullivan, Usselman, Neu, Kirchner, Killelea, Farrell,
Campbell, McGrath, Dallas, Hackley, McMahon, I. Semmes, Gall, Callinan, Salomon, Bruser, Wells, Reinhard, Piersol, Julius, Bischoff, A. Ewing, Horner, C. Wathen, S. Wathen, Casey, Garrity, C. Campbell, O’Connor, Dessaint, Cortright, Lloyd, Donnelly, Otto, Danaher, Lancaster, Fitzgerald, Gavan, Crummey, E. Populorum, Halloran, Ginz, Reynolds, Davis, Wurzs-burg.
■	VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class—Misses Silverthorn, Kirchner, Gordon. 2d Class *	—Misses Usselman, Hackett. 3d Class—Misses Bruser, Rosing,
O’Connor, Rheinhard, Callinan, Buck, Julius, McGrath, A. Ewing. 4th Glass—Misses. O’Neill, Otto, L Semmes, E. Hackett, Purdy, French, Mitchell, Wells, Hackley, Davis. 5th Class—Misses Moxon, Rasche, Simms, English, S. Wathen, Greenebaum, Regensburg, Brown, McMahon, Halloran, Paddock, Dillon.	'	.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
2d Class—Misses Lancaster, C. Lancaster, J. Wells, Fox, t	Thompson, Wall. 3d Class—Misses Callinan, Baroux, Feehan,
Crummey, Horner, Hammond, Kinzie, Barlow, B. Garrity.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Misses Sullivan, Papin, Gavin. 3d Glass—Missea Otto, Winston, Casey, Butts.
China Painting—Miss Dallas.
OIL-PAINTING.
1st Class—Misses Neteler, Hambleton, Buck. 2d Class —Misses Cortright, L Semmes, Killelea, Dillon, A. Ewing. 3d Glass—C. Campbell, Dessaint, Gavan, French, Zahm, English.
GENERAL DRAWING.
Senior Department—Misses Fitzgerald, C. Hackett, A. Ryan, Tallman, Murphy, Quinn, Halloran, Simms, Edelen, Donnelly, Rasche.
Junior Department—Misses Gibbons, Clarke, Carter, Hutchison, Legnard, Reutlinger, Duncan, Claffey, Harrison, E. Populorum, C. Ryan, E. Ryan, P. Ewing, T. Ewing.
Ornamental Needlework.—Misses Quinn, Danaher, Otto, Gavan, Mitchell, Smith. Donnelly, C. Wathen, S. Wathen, Murphy, Callinan, Orr, Populorum, Piersol, Wall, Hammond, Rasche, Thompson, Reinhard, Halloran, Saloman, Horner, Cox, McCloskey, E. Populorum, Papin, Carter, Gibbons, Wilkins, E. Papin.
Plain Sewing.—Misses Ewing, Gordon, Sullivan, Killelea, Wall, Lancaster, Horner, Reinhard, Winston.
General Mending—1st Class—Mises Ewing, Gordon, Usselman, Killelea. Hackett, Cavenor, Ward, Ryan, Cortright, Rosing, Kirchner, Danaher, Neu, Bischoff, Wall, Taylor, Hamilton, Zahm, Salomon, Purdy, Lloyd. 2d Glass—Misses McGrath, Woodin, Sullivan, A. Ewing, Hambleton, Reinhard, Hackley, Mitchell, Winston, Loeber, Donnelly, Gall, Keys, Wells, Wright. 3d Class—Misses Lancaster, C. Wathen, 8. Wathan, Campbell, Callinan, Keena. Thompson, Cox, Hammond, Reynolds, Moxon, Julius, De Lapp, Baroux.
Tablet of Honor.
POR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, AND CORBECT DEPORTMENT.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Silverthorne, Killelea, McGrath, Woodin, Hambleton, Ewing, Neteler, Sullivan, Ward, A. Ryan, I. Semmes, Quinn, Dillon, Smith, Walsh, Cronin, Fitzgerald, Dallas, Wells, Bischoff, Bruser, O’Neill, C. Wathen, S. Wathen, Pa'.mer, Taylor, Zahm, Murphy, Campbell, Keys, Lancaster, Simms, Kinzie, Dessaint, Baroux, Davis, Gavan, Regensburg, Hammond, Salomon, Thompson, Rasche, Halloran, Wright, Engel, Wurzburg, Ede. len, Tailman, Reynolds, McCormick, Paddock, McCoy, Brown, Krieg, par excellence. Misses Keenan, Maloney, Cavenor, Hackett, Cortright, Rosing, Buck, A. Ewing, Galen j Farrell, Danaher, Kirchner, Gordon, L'oyd, Neu, Usselman, Otto, Mitchell, Loeber, Donnelly, De Lapp, Gall, English, Julius, McMahon, Callinan, Piersol, O’Connor, Hackley, Hamilton, Price, Moxon, Orr, Greenebaum, Horner, McFadden, Purdy, Reinhard, Cleghorn, Wall, Leydon, Keena, Cox.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Claffey, A. Dillon, C. Campbell, Van Namee, I. Semmes, Crummey, Fishburne, J. Wells, G. Taylor, McCloskey, Lancaster, Fleming, Chirhart, Paquette, Hutcheson, Harrison E. Papin, Jaeger, P. Ewing, T. Ewing, Knighton, Robinson, M. Baroux, par excellence. Misses Feehan, Populorum, S. Papin, Joseph, C. Ryan, Carter, Gibbons, Duncan, Reutlinger, Barlow, Legnard, Ginz, Considine.
Attorneys at Law.
JAMES H. MARD, (of ’73,) Attorney and Counsellor at Law, Rooms 63 and 65 Metropolitan Block, N. W. Cor.
La Salle and Randolph Sts., Chicago, Ill.
SPEER & MITCHELL (N. S. Mitchell, of ’72)
Attornejs at Law, No. 225 Bra-’y St., Davenport, Iowa.
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD (of ’62). Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway <coi. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
JOHN I?. McIIUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office
65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
Orville t. chamberlain (of ’6i), Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
WTT.T.T AM J. CLARKE (of ’74), Attorney at Law.
Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S High St, Columbus, O.
J ANTTI St A_. O’REILLY-of ’69—Attorney at Law, t>27 Court St., Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
DAJNTE1L B. mBBA-TCO, Jr : (of ’70), Attorney at Law. Special attention given to Collections. 96 Griswold Street, Detroit, Mich.
412
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
St. Mary’s Academy,
{One Mile West of Notre Dame).
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
ygy NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
Conservatory of Music, under the charge of a competent corps of teachers, comprises a large music-hall, and twenty-seven seperate rooms for Harps and Pianos. A thorough course for graduation in Theory and Practice, Aesthetic Composition, large musical Library in French, German, English and Italian —four weekly lessons and daily practice, weekly lectures and recital.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course. Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Prize Gold Medals awarded in the following courses:—German, French, Christian Doctrine, Painting, Drawing and Domestic Economy, in the Senior Department; and for Polite and Amiable Deportment in both the Senior and Junior Departments.	.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
INMAN LINE.
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS. NEW YOBZ to QUEENSTOWN and LIVERPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons. CITY OF BERLIN, 5491 CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607 CITY OF CHESTER, 4566 CITY OF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS. 3775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS, 3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.	•
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G. DALE, Agt.
15 Broadway, New York.
Or to JACOB WILE,	'
Foreign Exchange and Passage Agent, oct&tf	Porte, Indiana.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Nov. 1«, 1879.
	♦MaH	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -“ Mich. City-“. Niles	 “ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson - - - Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 90 a.m 11 13 “ 12 15 p. m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 80 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 05 “ 9 50 “	515 p m. 740 “ 9 00 “ 10 28 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	910 pm 1130 “ 12 48 am 2 28 “ 5 00 " 8 00 “
	•MaH	♦Day Express.	♦Jackson Express.	+ Pacific Express	tEven’g Express.
Lv. Detroit - - -“ Jackson - - -“ Kalamazoo - -“ Niles 		 “ Mich. City - - Ar. Chicago		7 00 a. m 10 20 “ 1 15 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 50 “	9 35 a. m 12 15 p. m 2 37 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	5 55 p. m 4 50 a, m 6 50 “ 8 08 “ 10 35 “	9 50 p m. 12 45 a.m. 243 “ 415 “ 530 “ 8 00 “	8 10 p.m 115 “ 1 33 a.m 830 “ 4 55 “ 7 30 “
INI les and South Bend Division..
•GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p.m. “ N. Dame-8 52 “	6 88 “ Ar. Niles— 9 25 “ 715 “		♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 415 p.m. “ N. Dame—740 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—745 “	4 55 “
•Sunday excepted.	tDally.	+Saturday and Sunday excepted'
Henby C. Wentworth, H. B. Ledyard, G. P. & T. A., Chicago, HI. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich. G..L, Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after January 1, 1880, trains will leave South Bend *■ follows:
GOING EAST.
2 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 230 p. m; Buffalo 8 05 p. m.
11	05 a.m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 525 p.m; Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
12	16 p. m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 40 p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 a.m.
9 12 p.m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arives at Toledo 2 40 a.m: Cleveland, 7 05 a.m; Buffalo, 110 p.m.
4 50 and 4 p.m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 43 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a.m, Chicago 6 a.m.
5 05 a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 a.m, Chicago 820 a.m.
4 50 p.m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 540, Chicago 8 p.m.
8 03 am, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 905 a.m; Chicago, 1130 a.m.
7 30 and 8 03 a.m, Way Freight. •
F. C. Raw, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Supt.
A
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
1
Condensed Time Tail Ie, Noy. IO, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, COR. CANAL AND MADISON STS. (West Side), ON ARRIVAL OF TRAINS FROM NORTH AND SOUTHWEST.
GOING WEST.
	No. 1 Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburg,	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Abbive	1145 p.m. 12.53 a.m. 3.10 “ 4.50 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9.00 a.m. 10.12 “ 12.50 p.m. 2.26 “ 4.40 “ 5.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.55 “ 5.35 “ 7.13 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	6.00 a.m. 7.45 “ 11.00 * 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
Crestlin	Leave Forest	 Lima	 Ft. Wayne,	 Plymouth,	 Chicago,	Abbive	7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.20 PJi. 3.50 « 7.00 “	5.40 p.m. 7.35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2.46 a.m. 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 12.25 a Ji. 2.40 ‘ 4.55 “ 7.58 “	•••••••••
GOING EAST.
	No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Atlan.Ex.	No. 8, Mail.
Chicago	Leave	9.10 P.M.	8.30 a.m.	5.15 p.m.	• •••»••• • •
Plymouth,	......		2.46 A.M.	11.48 “	8.55	
Ft“ Wayne,			655 “	2.25 p.m.	11.30 “	
...............	8.55 “	4.20 “	1.30 a m	
Forest,		10.10 “	5.27 “	2.33 “	
Crestline,	Abbive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.05 “		
Crestline	Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.15 ajt.	6.05 A. M
Mansfield,		12.35 “	7.45 “	4.55 “	6.55 “
Orrville,..'		2.26 “	9.38 “	7.00 “	9.15 “
Alliance,		400 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	11.20 “
Rochester,		6.22 “	1.20 A.M.	11.06 “	2.00 pji.
Pittsburgh,.... Abbive	7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 p.m.	3.30
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday
This is the only Line that runs the celebrated Pullhan Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F, B.MYEBS, G. P. &T.A.

i

7


j
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	413
The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Dame in	for the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &c., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. EDWARDS,
Notbe Dame, Indiana.
HI ft
H
CLi
WHO IS unacquaintedwith the geography of this COUNTRY. WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP, THAT THE
Chippewa Tails
inneapolis
Pl
inona
war*
7^2
« $
G>
Centra, v
6X S* \
uincv
Onaga
ope
.Menasha
N
Steoais^Poi

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R,
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST & THE WEST I
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo. Moline, Rock Island. Davenport, West Liberty, Iowa City.Marengo, Brooklyn, Grinnell, Des Moines (the capital of Iowa), Stuart, Atlantic, and Avoca; with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon, Belknap, Centreville, Princeton, Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth, Atchison, and Kansas City; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa, and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Ben-tonsport, Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa. Eddyville, Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe, and Des Moines; Newton to Monroe; Des Moines to Indianolaand Winterset; Atlantic to Lewis and Audubon; and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad, which owns, and operates a through line from Chicago into the State of Kansas.
Through Express Passenger Trains, with Pullman Palace Cars attached, are run each way daily between Chicago and Peoria, Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison. Through cars are also run between Milwaukee and Kansas City, via the “Milwaukee and Rock Island Short Line.”
The “Great Rock Island” is magnificently equipped. Its road bed is simply perfect, and its track is laid with steel rails.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Illinois ana Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining Cars that accompany all Through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents.	. _ .
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes (and the immense passenger business of this line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars for sleeping purposes, and Palace
i
i
■5
$
Gen’l Superintendent,
PULLMAX PALACE CARS are ran through to PEORIA, UES MOINEa. COUNCIL. BLUFFS, KANSAS CITY, ATCHISON, and LEAVENWORTH.
Ticket* via thia Line, known a* the “Great Bock Island Route, are*oldby all Ticket Agent* In the United State* and Canada.
For Information not obtainable at your hone ticket oflee, adore**, A KIMBADL.	E. ST. JOHN,
EDWARD BUYSSE, DEALER IN Watches, Clocks,
JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Bone.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Dining Cars for eating purposes only. One other great feature of our Palace Cars is a SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your “Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Kansas City, Leavenworth, and Atchison, connections bemgmade in Union Depots.
TTHC PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
At Chicago, with all diverging Hues for the East and South.	_
At Englewood, with the LB. 4M.S., andP^ Ft. W. AC. R. Rds.
At WASHINGTON HEIGHTS, with P-, C. * St. L. R. R.
At La Salle, with Ill. Cent. R. R.
At Peoria, with P. P. & J.; P.D.4E.; LB.4 W-; III. Mid.; andT.P.AW. Rds.
At Rock Island, with “Milwaukee & Rock Island Short Line,” and Rock Isl’d A Peo. Rds.
At Davenport, with the Davenport Division C.M.&St. P.R.R.
At West Liberty, with the B..C.R. 4 N.R.R.
At Grinnell, with Central Iowa R. R.
At Des Moines, with D. M.&F.D.R.R.
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R-R.
At OMAHA, with B. & Mo. R. R. R. in Neb.)
At Columbus J unction, with B.,C. R. 4 N. R.R.
At Ottumwa, with Central IowaR-R.;W., St. L. 4 Pac., and C. B. 4Q. R. Rds.
At Keokuk, with Tol., Peo. 4 War.; Wab^ St. Louis 4 Pac., and St. L., Keo. 4 N.-W. R. Rds.
At Cameron, with H. St. J. R. R.
At Atchison, with Atch.. Topeka & Santa Fe; Atch. 4 Neb. and Cen. Br. U. P. R. Rds.
At Leavenworth, with. Kan. Pa<t, and Kan. Cent. R. Rds.
At Kansas City, with ail lines for the West and Southwest.
Geu'l Tkt. and Paa*’gr Agt, Chicago, DL
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
(MAIN BUILDINGS
i
j
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, by the Congregation of the Holy Cross, under the direction of Very Rev. E. Sobin, and was char, tered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the midst of the fine and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from_the river. The College can easily be reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the recently-built railway between that place and South Bend, which runs within a half mile of the College. At the Michigan Southern Railroad depot, South Bend, omnibusses or private conveyances can be obtained.
The buildings are well adapted for the purposes for which they were erected. The Study-Halls, Class-Rooms, Dining-Rooms, Sleeping Apartments and Recreation-Halls are commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The Education_given at Notbe Dame is calculated to form both the heart and intellect of the students. Every attention is given to their moral and religious culture. Every day the students have an opportunity of attending classes where they may acquire a knowledge of Christian Doctrine. Twice a week, lectures and instructions on religious topics are delivered to all the students together. Finally, a regular course of Dogmatic Theologyis established in the University for the benefit of the more advanced students, who may desire to enter the world having their minds stored not only with profane science but also with what is much more important—a thorough knowledge of their religion. The religious instruction is, of course, confined to Catholic students. The intellectual training is carried on with care and diligence by the officers and Professors of the University. The best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected; so that no pains are spared to secure the objects waich the University has in view as an educational institution.
Terms greatly reduced.
Studies were resumed at the usual time, the first Tuesday of September, but students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalogues giving full particulars, will be sent free on application to the President,
Very Rev. W. CORBY, C. S. C^ Notre Dame P. 0., Indiana.