£lj e ^djalaettc
miSJL.TSIIEI* WEEKLY A.T NOTRE DAME.
goofed to the |utereoto of the gMmts.
“ LABOR OMNIA VIINCIT.”
Vol. II. . UNIVEESITY OF NOTEE DAME, IND., JULY 3, 1869.
No. 42.
Commencement at Notre Dame.
We copy from Chicago Tribune of the 24th ult., the most widely circulated paper in the West, the following report of the Commencement Exercises celebrated hereon the22d, and 23d inst.;
. The charming little city of South Bend, Indiana, situated eighty-four miles from Chicago, on the line of the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana "Railroad, is experiencing an event, or rather passing through an epoch, in its history. This thriving, picturesque place, now the home of 12,000 souls, and the centre of many busy industries, marks this week the expiration of one-quarter of a century from the time when its leading institution was authorized to be. We state the case thus, because it was two years before that time, or twenty-seven years ago, that Father E. Sorin arrived on the southern bend in the St. Joseph River, and then and there determined to found a religious institution which should be to the great West a focus of Catholic culture and power. The site was then a wild one. The Indian had scarcely been banished to the trans-Mississippi hunting grounds by the Chicago treaty, and the wild animals still held possession of the prairie and the glen which the red man had vacated. All was a wilderness, and much of the surrounding country an undrained waste, little better than a bog, which promised anything but a transformation into the beauteous scenery which now meets the eye. But he was strong in the faith, and planted the standard of the Cross. That act was not the nominal beginning of history to South Bend, but it was the actual commencement of vitality to that region. The Brothers who soon gathered there were workers as well as talkers. Their community was a busy one. They began to till the soil as well as instruct the people, and, while
they grew in numbers and enlarged their circle of operations, their settlement formed, at once a nucleus and a stimulus for gathering activities on the other side of the river. That community, which, it is facetiously remarked, commenced with but “ half a pupil,” has now grown into a mighty college, with a faculty of thirty-four priests, a force of about one hundred lay brothers, and a total of some eight hundred residents to be fed daily from the commissary. More than this: It has proven to be the starting point whence have gone out builders of many other similar institutions. Prominent among its connections we may note that of St. Mary’s, situated about a mile westward—the real estate of the two comprising a total of some 2,700 acres.	*
St. Mary’s Academy is devoted exclusively to the education of yonug ladies; the University of Notre Dame is in like manner appropriated exclusively to the culture of youths of the male. sex. In connection with the commencement exercises of this, the twenty-fifth year, the alumni of the last-named institution held their annual gathering on Tuesday last, a goodly number being in attendance.	_
The twenty-fifth anniversary is appropriately marked with a Red Letter in the College Calendar, and prominent among its especial incidents we note the issue of a neat volume, entitled the ‘‘Silver Jubilee,” which contains a concise history of the institution, a few leading facts in the biographies of its founders and present professors, several of its alumni being also honored with a place in its pages, and a. sketch of the proceedings at the anniversary exercises of the present week. The work has been prepared by Professor Joseph A. Lyons, and is a credit to both author and publisher. It will long be treasured as a valued souvenir of the occasion which called it forth, and will be read with even increasing interest by succeeding generations.	.
The exercises commenced at 8 o’clock in the


330	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
morning with a solemn Mass, celebrated in the chapel of the college, by the Rev. Father General, to the music of Prof. Girac’s Third Mass in B flat, with instrumentation by the Notre Dame band, in addition to the organ. The service was largely attended and was very impressive.
The second regular meeting of the alumni was held at noon in the spacious parlors of the college, Rev. Father Gillespie, the President, in the chair.	.
After the reading of minutes, and transaction of some miscellaneous business, the association proceeded to the election of officers for the ensuing year, with the following result:
President—Rev. N. H. Gillespie.
First Vice President—Prof. T. E. Howard, A. M.
Second Vice President—John Cassidy, M. D.
Treasurer—Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M.
Secretary—Prof. M. T. Corby, A. M.
Orator—Prof. Paul Broder; alternate, J. B. Runnion.
Poet—Prof. A. J. Stace, A. M.; alternate, Rev. M. B. Brown.
The association then elected the following as members: Profl Max Girac, LL. D.; C. A. B. Von Weller, F. R. S., and Rev. T. O’Sullivan. The meeting then adjourned.
At one o’clock, the members of the Alumni As. sociation, with a few invited guests, sat down to dinner in the spacious refectory. The President— Rev. Father Gillespie—presided. Among the guests of the occasion were the Right Rev. J. H. Luers, Bishop of the Diocese of Fort Wayne; Very Rev. Father Sorin, S. S. C., the founder of the College, and now Superior General of the, Order; Rev. Father Boyle, of Washington; Very Rev. Father Kundig, Vicar General of Milwaukee. Rev. Dom Paul Jaussion, of France; Rev. M. M’ Hallinan, of Lafayette, Ind., and several other distinguished priests. The spread embraced an ample supply of substantial food, cooked in the best manner, but containing nothing calculated -to pamper the appetite. The dinner was full without satiety; good without luxury; frugal without abstemiousness. The oratorical dessert was ably managed by Prof. Wm. Ivers, who officiated as “ Toast Master.”
Letters were read from E. M. Brown, of Cleveland, Ohio; E. M. O’Callaghan and J. B. Runnion, of Chicago, regretting unavoidable absence. After this, toasts were in order. The first was:
“ Our Country,—unrivalled in energy, blessed in its institutions. May it hold its place as the
greatest republic the world ever saw, until all nations be blotted from the earth.”
Responded to by the Right Reverend Bishop Luers, of the Diocese of Fort Wayne. He answered the question: Is this a great country ? Yes. We have everything that can make it great; ample and fertile territory which makes us independent of other nations, both in agricultural and mineral products. The nation, too, possesses energy, perseverance and go-aheadativeness which mark no other nation. It would have taken the people of the Old World centuries to build the Pacific Railroad, and take as long to lay the first brick as it does here to build a house. In the liberal arts and sciences we rival the Old World, and in the useful arts we are decidedly ahead of them. We owe our tremendous progress, in a great measure, to our liberal and free institutions, which draw out the faculties of the human mind, while the governments of the Old World repress those energies. There is no reason why our progress should not continue till the end of time.
“The Hierarchy and Clergy of the United States—pastors of the flock, promoters of Education, guardians of virtue, protectors of true liberty. May they continue zealous for the real interests of mankind, and be rewarded eternally for the good they have done, do, and will do.”
Responded to by Prof. Paul B. Broder, of Beloit, who said that everything truly great and good is in some way connected with the Christian religion, and, if there be anything attractive in the Christian religion, it is connected with the character of the priest. Thoughts which shine out to make the past grand and glorious have been enunciated by the priest. The life of the priest and bishop is one of self-denial from beginning to end, and it is his task to aid in relieving the sufferings of others, and help them in the struggle upwards towards the beatitudes of the Excelsior.
“The Press—Mighty in its influence for good or evil; the grand conductor of useful knowledge or startling ideas of man. May its energy be ever found on the side of justice, honor and virtue.”
Responded to by Elias Colbert, of The Chicago Tribune.
“ The Bar.—The safeguard of our rights. May it ever be found true to its calling.”
Responded to by Mr. P. Dechant.
“ The Medical Profession—Grand is their vocation; to give health to the sick, hope to the despairing. May they be prompt to attend every
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
331
call, successful in every operation, honored among men, smiled upon by a beneficent Providence.” Responded to by Dr. John Cassidy, of South Bend, who gracefully acknowledged the compliment. He believed that the alumni of this institution had been preserved from the tricks of the profession, and he hoped that, as in the past, no member of its graduates will be found dealing in diluted nonsense or practising eclectic absurdities. He trusted that the few among the Alumni of Notre Dame who had embraced the practice of medicine, would ever do honor to their Alma Mater by shining in their adopted sphere of labor.
“ The Professoriate—The fountain head of all professions; their calling is divine.”
Responded to by Rev. M. M. Hallinan, D. D. He said that the Educator does harm to the community if he does not succeed, while with many professions a failure is simply detrimental to the individual. If the professor fail to cultivate the heart of the pupil, he risks the loss of an immortal soul. He believed that the professors of this institution have always had a proper aim in view, and he trusted that their self-sacrifices will be -abundantly blessed in the future growth of the college.
“ The University of Notre Dame. May its past typify its future.”
Responded to by James McBride. He was pleased to note a great increase in the favor with which the public regards the institution, and he wished it to be remembered that the success of Notre Dame in the future will largely depend on the conduct of its alumni.
“The Alumni. May their deeds continually intertwine the brow of their Alma Mater with a bright halo.”
Responded to by Professor A. J. Stace in a humorous speech, which brought down roars of laughter.
“ The Silver Jubilee. May the pleasant recollections thereof be fresh in our memories when we meet to celebrate the Golden Jubilee.”
Responded to by E. S. Pillars.
Very Rev. E. Sorin was called on to speak to the last subject. He responded in an account of his personal experience in the Holy City. Nothing rejoiced him more than to meet the friends of Notre Dame on such occasions. For whatever of good had been achieved in the past, “ to God be all the glory.” It is the work of the Most High, and for it His name be praised. He thanked them for the interest they had shown, and hoped that
future occasions would be even more numerously attended.
Father Boyle, of Washington city, was next called out, and edified the gathering for about five minutes with a sparkling discourse, referring to the pleasant character of the associations formed, within those walls and the large amount of good done by such institutions.
The party then rose, and proceeded up stairs, where many of them spent the afternoon in examining the different rooms of the building, or in social converse in the parlors, while some paid their respects to the sister insitution of St. Mary’s about a mile distant, and looked over the beautiful grounds connected with the buildings in which hundreds of young ladies are being educated by the Sisters of the same Order (of the Holy Cross), under the direction of the talented Mother Angela.
We may'not omit mention of the really excellent library, curated by the accomplished Rev. J. C. Carrier, whose heart is in his work, and whose work shows itself in a large and well-selected library and museum. The former, being originally nucleated by donation, contains some books of no great value, but the great majority of the works have been very judiciously chosen. We note a collection of seventeen different encyclopedias; a complete set of the writings of the “ Fathers,” in 145 volumes ; a full list of the classics ; and a wide range of authors on Church history and the exact sciences. The museum is principally local, though it has been enriched by contributions from the continent of Europe, brought by members of the Order from the Old World.
Notre Dame has a fine telescope, the gift of the Emperor Napoleon, and a resident Professor of Astronomy—Professor T. E. Toward,—but as yet has no.observatory building. It is proposed, however, to erect a tower as soon as may be, and mount the instrument equatorially, when other aparatus will be procured, and the work of scientific observation be systematically prosecuted. Professor Howard is one of the best mathematicians in the West, and is well known in connection with his former astronomical labors at the Ann Arbor University.
In the evening a large number of students and friends assembled in the Washington Hall to listen to an entertainment furnished by the member? of the several college Societies and Classes. The hall was well filled, and the stage was well mounted, equal to that of many a more pretentious theatre. The following was the programme:
832	THESCHOL
ASTIC YEAR.
Grand Entrance March. -	-	-	- N. D. U. Brass Band
Overture—Zampa—(Herold) - -	-	- N. D. U. Orchestra
Grand Cantata of the “ Silver Jubilee ” composed expressly for the occasion, (music by Max Girac, LL. D., words by Bev. M. B. Brown, S. S. C-), given by the musical societies of the University, numbering 40 voices ... - Prof. Max Girac, Conductor Greek Speech ------- Wm. Walker Music—Piano, 8 hands ------
J. O’Reilly, A. Hemsteger, D. Wile and G. Kahman Latin Address ------- W. McClain Song -------	- Vincent Hackmann
Address from the Philodemic Society -	-	- Jas. Cunnea
Address from the St. Edward Society - - - D. Clarke Symphony, 1st movement in A flat. Haydn’s 4th,
N. D. U. Orchestra
“ Richelieu; or, The Conspiracy,” a play in four acts, by the members of the Thespian Association, under the direction of Prof. M. T. Corby. The following were the principal dramatis personae : Bichelieu—Premier of Prance	-	-	- - M. S. Ryan
Baradas—Favorite of the King	-	-	-	- A. B. White
Chevalier de Mauprat ------ J. Fleming Francois—Page to Richelieu -	-	-	-	H. Morancy
Joseph—A Capuchin, Richelieu’s confidant -	- H. B. Keeler
Louis the XIII—King of France	-	-	-	L. B. Logan
Gaston—Duke of Orleans	-	-	-	- A. W. Arrington
The musical portion of the entertainment was, almost without exception, most excellent. The overture to Zampa was performed by an orchestra composed exclusively of members of the college, under the direction of Professor Girac, and was given in a style fully worthy of a Chicago string band. The Cantata of the Silver Jubilee is a fine composition, rich in combination of effects, and full of counterpoint; a little florid, perhaps, especially for execution by amateurs, but it was well given, except towards the last, when its length told severely on the vocal organs of the Juniors, making their tones uncertain. The opening recitative, by Mr. Von Well er, was sung with much good taste and considerable power. The music for the two pianos was not so great a success, the two pairs of players failing to keep together throughout. The movement from Haydn’s fourth symphony was a most enjoyable performance, and its execution reflected great credit on the band and their leader.
The oratorical efforts were also very creditable. The address in the Greek language was spoken fluently and clearly. The Latin address was equally well delivered, and was a model composition, except that its length was an objection to it. The address by the representative of the Philodemic Society was an able attempt to prove that the civilized progress of the past three or four centuries is not an effect of the Reformation. It was delivered with good oratorical effect. The
address from the St. Edward’s Society was rather too prosaic to be exceedingly interesting; but it was very neatly worded in reference to the conclusion of the first quarter of a century in the official existence of the society, and the closing wish that the future of the college may be prosperous was so gracefully couched as to draw forth considerable applause.
The dramatic portion of the programme is worthy of much commendation. The piece was well mounted, and the dresses were appropriate, while the young men who assumed the leading roles were all well up in their parts, and really would not suffer by comparison with many of our stock professionals, though these were but amateurs, and, to many of them, it was a first “appearance.” Of course Richelieu was a different person to what he would have been in the hands of a Kean or a Booth, but the wily Cardinal was present on the stage nevertheless, and the delineation was one of great merit. The parts of Joesph, Gaston, de Mauprat and Baradas were also well sustained. The piece was remodelled rather extensively to fit it for being played “ by male characters only.”
[Special Dispatch to The Chicago Tribune.]
South Bend, June 23, 1869.
The twenty-fifth Annual Commencement and Silver Jubilee of the University of Notre Dame is being celebrated here with more than the usual degree of enthusiasm attending such occasions. To day was Commencement Day proper, the great day of the college year; and the parents, > guardians and friends of the students assembled from all parts of the Union to witness the conferring of premiums, honors and degrees, and to listen to the young orators and musicians, or to applaud their efforts on the mimic stage.
The exercises of the day were inaugurated by an early breakfast at 7 o’clock. At half past eight the grand entrance march was played by the Notre Dame University Cornet Band, after which the orchestra gave Rossini’s overture, “ Gazza Ladra,” which was rendered in a highly creditable manner.
The address from the St. Cecilia Society was then delivered by Mr. D. J. Wile, and elicited a cordial expression of approval from the audience. It was a well-written production, and delivered with great force and spirit. It was appropriately supplemented by a song by V. H. Hackmann and other members of the St. Cecilia Society.
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR. '	333
The orations’ of Messrs. H. B. Keeler, A. B. White, and. J. J. Flemming, representing respectively the Scientific, Commercial and. Law Departments, were quite above the average of productions presented, on such occasions. Mr. Keeler, a graduate of the present year, showed, in his speech from the Scientific Department, a mind, well stored, with the lore of science, and carefully disciplined. In the intervals between the addresses Mr. Wile contributed, a well executed piece on the piano, and Mr. Staley sung, with applause, that song: “ Oh, Native Land.”
The forenoon exercises concluded, with a drama in four acts, entitled. “The Prodigal Law Student,” written by a lady for, and performed, by, the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association of the Junior Collegiate Department. The play is a composition of considerable merit, representing the chequered scenes of joy and. grief in the journey of life; the trials, temptations, sad fall, and. final repentance of the prodigal law student.
Of the actors and the acting, without entering into an elaborate criticism of the performance, it may be said that each and all entered into the spirit of their respective parts with true artistic earnestness. Mr. D. J. Wile sustained the part of Mr. Martin, the broken-hearted parent of the prodigal, to perfection. It was a role in which sighs and tears were not wanting, and these were produced with pathetic effecrt. Mr. Staley acquitted himself well in the part of Fred, the law student, while the generous Angelo, the brother of the old man, was well taken by :Mr. Mark Foote. Tightfist, a crabbed, close-fisted old miser, .was represented by Mr. Burdell, while the rival newsboys found energetic and humorous exponents in Messrs. Mahony and Arrington. Among the others in the cast who did credit to the occasion may be noted Messrs. Coppinger, McHugh, Hutchings, Clarke, Dwyer, O’Connell, Cochrane, McCartney, and Hayes, while the commodores, generals and privates, the land and sea men, citizens and servants, were all ably represented.
The afternoon exercises opened very pleasantly with the addresses from the Minims, in which Master Eddy De Groot and George Jenkins came out with flying colors. Mr. Mark Foote made an excellent speech on “Boys,” from the Junior Department. It was a sparkling piece itself, and well suited to the oratorical powers of the speaker, who delivered it in a spirited and manly manner. The valedictory, which was spoken by Mr. J. A. O’Reilly, was touching in sentiment, andwas delivered in a clear, earnest voice.
The distribution of premiums, honors and degrees was the portion of the entertainment which was, doubtless, of most interest to the students, and probably also to many of the lookers on. The exercises closed with the grand retiring march, played by the University Band, and the audience passed quietly out and away to remember with pleasure for many a day to come the happy Silver Jubilee of Notre Dame.
[From the Chicago Tribune, June 26th J
The twenty-fifth annual commencement of the University of Notre Dame, on account of the Silver Jubilee and its increasing excellence, was celebrated on Wednesday, the 23d inst., with more enthusiasm than any preceding one. The attendance of visitors from abroad was large, and, in addition to those noticed in The Tribune of Thursday, were: Hon. S. S. Hayes, Daniel' O’Hara, Esq., and W. W. Kennedy, Esq., Superintendent of the Police, Chicago; Hon. P. B. Ewing, Lancaster, O.; and Chas. McCabe, Esq., General Passenger Agent Great Western Railway, Canada.
MORNING EXERCISES.
The exhibition exercises of the morning were inaugurated with excellent music by the Notre Dame University Brass Band, and Orchestra, the latter under the direction of Prof. Max Girac, formerly of Chicago.
Mr. D. J. Wile of Laporte, Ind., followed with an address from the St. Cecilia Society, which was a fine production and called forth a general approval of the audience.
Mr. H. B. Keeler, of the Scientific Department, made a speech, the subject of which was the Influence of Mathematics on Civilization. This was a superior production and elicited hearty applause.
The speeches of Messrs. A. B. White and J. J. Fleming, of the Commercial and Law Departments, were fine efforts and well received, as was also the address from the Scientific Association by Mr. J. Dickinson, the only fault found with any of them being their extreme length. Fine singing was interspersed between the speeches.
A drama in four acts entitled the “Prodigal Law Student,” written for the occasion, was rendered by the Juniors with much credit to themselves and those under whose direction it was produced. The cast of characters was as follows:
Frederick, a law student............................  B.	Staley
Mr. Martin, bis father...............................I). J. Wile Alfred, bis friend....................................F.	Dwyer
334	THESCHOLASTICYEAR.	
Angelo, bis brother	.	M. Foote Tighrfist, a Wall-street broker	 	C. Burdell Mr. Richards, a friend of Mr. Martin	P. O’Connell Prof. Allgood, teacher of Angelo		J. W. Coppinger General Watson, commander of Zouaves	 P.	Cochrane Barry,	f V. Backman Foster, ^riends of Frederick?.	 ]	G.MrfW Eugene,	( W. Clarke Mr. O’Fiaberty, (late of the Emerald Isle)	J. Deeban Doctor Fuzby	.....A. Hemsteger Jesse, )	II	O’Neill Jake, |	C. Hutchings Bob, ) Servants	 J.	Dooley Spencer I	.	J. Maguire • Samuel J	(J. McHugh First Citizen	  E	Bahm Second Citizen	 J	Combs First Newsboy	 M.	Mahony Second Newsboy.	.	  T.	Arrington Zouaves, Citizens, &c. ( C. Marantette Aids to General Watson	•< F. Spencer (	J. Nash Admiral Ross ........ L. Wilson Captain Henderson	L.	Wilson Epilogue .......... W. Clarke The exercises for the forenoon closed with a Junior valedictory, by J. W. Coppinger—a very creditable composition. Last year the University decided that henceforth the compositions of students should be preserved, that the public might have the inspection of them. They are required to be written on uniform paper and then turned over to the Director of Studies, who has them bound in elegant morocco and placed in the grand parlor, where visitors may inspect them at their leisure. During the day much interest was manifested in their inspection. At 12 o’clock the visitors were invited to the large dining hall of the University, where dinner was served. AFTERNOON EXERCISES.	. In the afternoon the exercises were resumed by the University Band playing an entrance march, followed by “Unfurl the Glorious Banner” (solo), sung by James Edwards with chorus by the Philharmonics, under Prof. AL T. Corby, A. AL, which was most excellently rendered and elicited great applause. The first- address from the Alinims, by Alaster Eddie DeGroot, was the funny part of the affair, and was greeted with great merriment. The second Alinims’ address, by Alaster Geo. H. Jenkins, though a good one, was more serious, and followed too quickly to be well appreciated. The chorus—“ What Beams so Bright,” (Kreut-zer), “Praise of the Soldier” (Boieldieu), and “Where Would I be?” (Zbllner), by the Philharmonics, were most excellently rendered. The poem of the Alumni, by Prof. T. E. Howard, A. AL, entitled the “ Silver Wedding,” is the crowning effort of that eminent Professor and	author, and may be found at length in the book of the “ Silver Jubilee,” published by Prof. J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame, and previously noticed in The Tribune.	- The speech by Alaster Alark AI. Foote of the Junior Collegiate Department, was a master effort, which was made quite a topic of conversation and praise. The Juniors rivalled the Seniors throughout in the attention of the audience, and Alaster Vincent Hackmann gave the farewell song in a style that was very affecting. The valedictory of Mr. J. A. O’Reilly was very excellent. In its retrospective, a gloom seemed to have settled over the audience, but its prospective joy and hope in the future made all happy again. The “ Grand Cantata” of the “ Silver Jubilee ” was again rendered by the musical societies, with an improvement over the evening before. Now came the conferring of the collegiate degrees upon a few of the number of hopeful expectants, and the students did not fail to give expressions of delight when great favorites received the distinguished honors, while those not favorites were passed by in silence. The diplomas conferring the degree of Bachelor of Arts were awarded to Wm. P. AIcClain, Henderson, Ky.; James Cunnea, Alorris, Ill.» James A. O’Reilly, Reading, Penn; Thomas W. Ewing, Lancaster, 0., (grandson of Hon. Thomas Ewing. Alaster of Arts—John Bleckmann, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Anthony Alessman, Fort Wayne, Ind.; T. Daly,- Rochester, N. Y.; John O’Connell, N. Y. Bachelor of Sciences—Hiram B. Keeler, Union, Mich.; Stacy B. Hibben, Wilmington, 0.; James Cunnea, Alorris, Ill; E. E. Hull, Detroit, Mich. Alaster of Accounts—Joseph Harrison, Hardin, Ill.; John Alber, Logansport, Ind.; Ed. Bahm, Batavia, Ill. ;II. H. Schnelker, New Haven, Ind.; Louis Schmeider, Alinster, 0.; John Vocke, Napoleon, Ind.; C. Sage, Adamsville, Alich.; Jas. Alontgomery, Afontgomery, Ind.; James Wilson, Trenton, N. J.; Bernard AIcGinnis, Ottawa, Ill.; Jas. AI. Grier, Geneva, HL; D. J. Diemer, Tiffin, O.; Ed. O’Brien, Louisville, Ky.; A. B. White, Hanover, Ill. For this degree there were seventy-one candidates, but only fourteen were able to pass the rigid examination. Preparatory medical certificates were awarded to Chas. J. Lundy, Detroit, Mich., and Henry G. Allen, Canton, Alo.

THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	’	335	
A law professorship has been introduced this season, and will hereafter become a branch of the University course. The competition prize gold medals were awarded to J. Eisenman, Louisville, Ky., of the Preparatory Department; J. F. Wilson, Trenton, N. J., Commercial Department; D. A. Clarke, Columbus, 0., Scientific Department; Wm. A. Walker, Malden, W. Va., Classical Department; and for field sports to J. W. Coppinger and Wm. Clarke. In the Preparatory, Commercial, Scientific and Classical Departments first silver medals were awarded to George Kahman, Washington, Mo. > Edward Bahm, Batavia, Ill.; F. Crapser, Lyons, Iowa ; Wm. Waldo, Independence, Mo. Second silver medals to Daniel Eagan, Chicago, Ill.; J. Montgomery, Montgomery, Ind.; A. W. Ar-_ rington, Chicago, Ill.; John Zahm, Huntingtom Ind. The second honors in the Junior and Senior Departments were awarded to eighty-two students, residing in nearly every State in the Union- For superior excellence in penmanship, Mr Henry P. Beakey received a splendid gold pen Senior Department. The first honors awarded for excellence of deportment, during no less than two years passed in the University, were received by Messrs. Henry Allen, D. A. Clarke, Austin Cabel, F. Crapser, James Edwards, Jos. Harrison, James McGlynn, A. J. Reilly, D. Tighe and Wm. Waldo. The second honors awarded to Messrs. A. W. Arrington, W. M. Bird, James Cunnea, James H. Curran, Michael Carney, Jas. A. Dickinson, John M. Duffy, Jacob Eisenman, John E. Garrity, E. B. Gambee, Jas. M. Grier, Thos. Heery, C. H. Hgen-fritz, T. A. Kinsella, H. B. Keeler, Jas. Montgomery, H. P. Morancy, A. H. Menard, Jas. O’Reilly, J. W- O’Brien, Wm. P. Rhodes, J. P. Rogers, J. Roby, H. H. Schnelker, H. Schnelker, C. Stewart, Louis Schmeider, Carleton Sage, B. Vocke, John Vocke, A. B. White, Henry Wrape, J. Wilson, G. M. Webb and John Zahm. Junior Department. The first honors awarded to Edward Bahm, J. W. Coppinger and John Nash. The second honors awarded to John Broderick, H. P. Beakey, F. P. Dwyer, Jas. Dooley, D. Egan, Jas. Falley, Vincent Hackmann, C. Hutchings, Geo. Hug, Hugo Hug, A. Hemsteger, John Klein, Geo. Kahmann, C. Marantette, Geo. McCartney, Jas. McGuire, C. J. J. O’Neill, Joseph J. Rumely, Patrick Tinan, Jas. H. Ward, C. W. Walter.	Minim Department. The first honors awarded to Martin Smith, Henry Jones, Harry Fear and Henry Voorhes. The second honors awarded to Wm. Byrne, Wm. Canavan, Ed. DeGroot, Geo. Jenkins, S. Hopkins, Geo. Lyons, C. Whitney and John Wilson. • The prize gold medals for good conduct and for improvement in Elocution and English Literature, during the Scholastic Year 1868-9, were awarded to the following young gentlemen of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society, in the Junior Collegiate Department: General Medals—J. W. Coppinger, Alton, Hl.; Mark Foote, Burlington, Iowa; V. H. Hackman, St. Louis, Mo.; Robert Staley, Sedalia, Mo.; D. J. Wile, Laporte, Ind. First Honors—C. Berdell, Chicago, Hl.; John McHugh, Lafayette, Ind.; F. P. Dwyer, Chicago, P. O’Connell, N. York; Wm Clarke, Chicago; L. Wilson, Trenton, N. J.; J. Deehan, Philadelphia, Pa.; G. McCartney, Vinton, Iowa; P. Cochrane* Chicago, H. Hayes, Chicago, J. Dooley, Chicago’ H. O’Neill, St. Louis, Mo.; C. Hutchings, New York. Second Honors—James Maguire, Chicago, HL; E. Bahm, Batavia, Hl.; M. Mahony, New York; F. Spencer, Warsaw, Mo.; John Nash, Rockford, HL; C. Marantette, Menton, Mich.; A. Hemsteger, Piqua, Ohio. The Grand Gold Medal of Excellence was awarded to Notre Dame’s favorite little musician, Vincent H. Hackmann, St. Louis, Mo., for superior excellence and marked proficiency in both vocal and instrumental music, and especially for his invaluable assistance rendered to the Choir for the past two years. These medals are of heavy solid gold, and of the Greek cross pattern, bearing the inscription, “ Optime Merenti," with the department and name of the recipient—on the reverse, “ University of Notre Dame, Silver Jubilee, June 23d, 1869.” When the distribution of premiums had concluded, President Rev. W. Corby, introduced Rev. F. P. Boyle, of Washington, District of Columbia, as the orator of the day, who is celebrated for his oratorical attainments. The reverend gentleman addressed himself to the Graduating Class, lauding the excellent manner with which they acquitted themselves. He said that much combined to inspire them for future years. There is a deep interest felt by the public in the progress of this great home of learning which God has so abundantly blessed. Like a scene of magic, this goodly pile of buildings and beauti
336
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
ful grounds had sprung into existence from five and twenty years ago, when these grounds were covered by a vast wilderness, through which the wild Indian roamed in chase and war path, now stands this magnificent palace of learning that is granting its credentials of learning to the youth of our country, which are recognized authority throughout the world, and rivalling in its excellence the proudest universities of the land. It is no magician’s wand that has done all this; it is the untiring devotion of these holy Fathers and Brothers to the cause of education: To the recipients of these parchments this is a day to be long remembered, and may they be omens to them of future success, these parchments of the Silver Jubilee—may their lives be silvery, and their reward be golden when this day of life shall have ceased-with each. The parchment is but the key to unlock the storehouse by, where lies the treasure of . knowledge—’tis but the be-.ginning—youth is ever hopeful. It is a mistake to believe that knowledge centres in the brain of him who receives the. last blessing of his Alma .Mater.	'	■
..His oration was delivered with much feeling, .and .was well received.- ,	•
Then came adieus with many promises to return at the coming session. . ’	-
; . / Oeation by Rev. F. P. Boyle.
[The following is the substance of the excellent! oration pronounced by Rev. Father Boyle, writ-' ten out from notes taken in long-hand at the time; we publish it on account of the beautiful ideas which it contains. Although it cannot compare with the oration as delivered; yet we sincerely thank the gentleman who has furnished the following synopsis].
It is said “ speech is silver and silence is gold,” but when our thoughts are all golden they must needs find silvery expression. The exercises of yesterday and to-day have awakened emotional ideas, have stirred the depths of feeling in all hearts, and swayed our souls by their variety, beauty, and intellectual character. Hard would it be to express such sentiments, and difficult to forbid them utterance. The tear of joy has sprung unbidden and coursed the cheeks, gladdened by these evidences of intellect profusely lavished by kind, merciful Providence, and carefully nourished by the watchful guardians of this home of science. If a tear is the result';of rapid thought
meeting profound feeling in sudden shock, then the joyous tear-drop springs to-day from their proper source. Ingenuous youth scintillating the mental force God has bestowed upon it,—votaries of science and of letters showing their proficiency in many varied evidences,—self-sacrificing tutors gathering the fruits of industrious care,—these large,cultivated assemblages of the people rejoicing in the progressive training of the young intellect, music, poetry and the freshness of youth,—religion presiding over the scene, and lending its heavenly charm—these, all these, and more, cause thought to course our brain and descend to the wells of feeling, deep down in our softened hearts.
But when we add to all the celebration of this Silver Jubilee of the University of the great Northwest—this twenty-fifth anniversary of its inception—our joy is kindled afresh, our faces glow with new excitement, and the throbbing heart beats with another gladsome emotion. Some such are the masterful ideas, sentiments springing to-day from amid these many scenes of intellectual life, now passing before us and from these halls sacred to Religion and Science. Who shall marvel at our pleasurable feelings, who keep silence under these crowding happy thinkings ? When we turn our eyes to yon goodly pile of buildings, this beauteous landscape surrounding them, its flower-decked walks and ample playgrounds, we are tempted to ask if this be fairy work,—if the enchanter’s wand has been waved above the spot and all be fruit of its potent spell. Five and twenty years ago and all here was wilderness and the prime face of nature ; •here roamed the savage and the wild beast. Five and twenty years ago and the place was nameless, unsought, unknown, save as the central point whence journeyed a pious missionary to save the Indian and the settler in a large circumference of arduous priestly labor.
Now behold the shrines of religion, the halls of science; these thronging youth hurrying for the food of intellect; this body of devoted self-sacrificing men, solely intent upon their work of graceful training of the young, leading minds through the paths of science up to God, in whose great name they labor and towards whom they point their youthful charge, as to their true destiny and the end of their existence. No, it is no fairy land, no enchantment, but “ the finger of God is here.” Under invocation of His great name, for His glory and by trust in Mary, Mother, this work had its beginning and progresses to its full development. It is the union of grace and
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
337
'•Uli.*
intellect, religion and science, faith and reason— a home where heavenly truth descends upon man’s godlike faculties to bless and comfort them in their earthly pilgrimage and to prepare them for immortal life. And to-day this revered Alma Mater sends forth a group of young athletes, over whose intellectual life she has watched, labored and prayed during years of incessant toil. To them she gives credentials for the kingdom of letters and a warranty as gentlemen and scholars, fit to mingle in the professional ranks of life, to move in commercial circles, to adorn the social walks, to gladden domestic scenes, and to serve this great republic and to sanctify existence to its consummator in heaven.
Yes, gentlemen of the Graduating Class, to you she gives anhonorable testimonial of successful studies and the possession of intellectual gifts, better than hereditary lands and the deeds that record estates and heaps of hoarded gold. You possess your intellectual powers and can wield their influence for God’s greater glory, your own success, the happiness of mankind and heaven’s reward for evermore. Immortality of earthly fame is a snare, a stratagem of the enemy, the creature of man’s fleeting breath and the fickleness of the multitude. What you hold of intellectual store will go with you into the true immortality which is beyond the grave. Your life is undying,— God has given you share in His own everlastingness and these fruits of study and mental, discipline are your possession, ever to be yours in time and in the eternities to which death will unbar the entrance. But be not deceived. The parchment that attests your proficiency does not confer the sum of all knowledge, nor does it attest your unchallenged superiority over your fellows.
Youth is full of hope, bright imaginings and daring, ambitious aspirations. It is apt to consider the diplomas as the evidences of complete science, the undisputed proof of entire mastery in the realms of thought.
No, gentlemen, the parchment only attests your preparation, your will, your fitness—the battlefield opens before you. In the arena of thought you must bear also the standard of your Alma Mater and never permit her fair fame to be disgraced. This is indeed Commencement Day for you. In your hand you bear the key to the store house of knowledge: open it and enter courageously. -But, gentlemen, be ever mindful that true science confesses to itself its own insufficiency. There are truths higher than what is called human science,
and even in this there have been, and now are, many stronger masters than yourselves. The great Sir Isaac Newton in the evening of his life declared that he was standing on the shore of the great ocean of truth, which lay all undiscovered before him. So shall you observe with what humility the truly scientific demean themselves. Dogmatism, the claim of personal infallibility, intolerance of others’ opinion, pride of intellect, are sure indications of the charlatan the sciolist, the pretender. The Master Divine said of old “ Unless you become as little children, you cannot enter the kingdom of heaven;”—nor yet, gentlemen, “ unless you feel as children of truth are you fit for the kingdom of science.” Ihave nearly accomplished my allotted task and it only remains for me to say a word of caution, based on an experience, starting from an occasion like the present for myself, and running its course for three and twenty years.
The duties that shall devolve upon you are not strictly of choice, still less of chance or imperious fate. God has allotted you work by an eternal decree, and the rest of your days must be sacred to its performance. Fix your minds on this central truth—God is Alpha and Omega. Whatever path you may pursue—whether the courts of law and the career of jurisprudence invite you—or the honorable science that cares for the suffering and contends against death—or whether you be called as were Saul or Barnabas—or pass your years in the varied walks of commercial activity, ever remember the goal of your efforts, the term of your labors and the appointed reward, the God of truth to whom you dedicate to-day your young lives, for whose glory you lift your hands in hope and upon whom you fix your gaze, never, I trust, to lose His saving light, at this moment pouring its brilliant rays upon your souls. Believe me, gentlemen, there is no truth other than God’s truth, no science, no philosophy save that upon which He has placed the seal of His approval, the sanction of His Church. Deeply interested in your welfare, anxious for your success, may the coincidence of the Silver Jubilee and your graduation be ominous of your future. Silvery successattend you; may you be blessed of God and loved of men.
Mr. Colbert, the Chicago Tribune's reporter, having omitted in his report any allusion to his answer in reply to the toast, “ The Press,” at the banquet of the Alumni, we beg his modesty not to be alarmed if we print his improvisation in
2
U
838
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
h r
! .
If
full. Air. Colbert is well known to the scientific world by his work on astronomy published recently. In response to the toast, Air. Colbert said:
' “ One of the humblest members of the great fraternity for whom I am called upon to respond, I am sure that I do but express the unanimous opinion of the newspaper press in saying that the institution of Notre Dame is an honor to the great Northwest, as it has been an instrument of immense power in elevating the educational status of what were, till very recently, the Western States.
“ The Press has especial reason to be proud of our schools and colleges. They form the basis on which is built up all that is valuable in the mental and moral wings of the great social edifice, and are largely identified with the structure of the physical portion, which we may call the main building. And without the preparations which they give, the Press would labor for naught, and soon die out for lack of support. The forces which move the moral world can only act through fit instrumentalities, and they find in the schoolroom their fulcrum, while the Press furnishes the lever by which the vis inertia of ignorance is overcome and the individual and the mass lifted out of the condition of brute existence, and brought nearer to Him who is the perfection of wisdom, of justice, and of love.
“ I am free to confess that the functions of the Press are too often distorted from their proper use; but that is perhaps traceable to a defect in the educational hall. If the Press be sometimes applied as a lever of the second order, debasing humanity by its issues, instead of educating and blessing it, that process involves an inversion of the fulcral point to'some extent. Hence it should be the first aim of our educators to so build up the rising generation on a knowledge of facts, and a love of the truth, as that this perversion shall not be possible. I believe this to be the aim of the conductors of this institution, whose Alumni I have the honor of meeting to-day; and on this point, not only myself, but the whole Press —and not alone the newspaper, but the great public—recognizes the peculiar value of that mighty growth in the last quarter of a century, which was planted twenty-seven years ago as a grain of mustard seed by the venerable Father Sorin, and whose branches are now spread so wide that it forms a type of the kingdom.
“ I sincerely trust that the past success of Notre Dame, and its sister institution, may prove to be
but small as compared with that of the next two and a half decades, and that the Press which now seeks to do justice to its present prosperity may find its mission magnified a hundred fold in the future.”	'
The following extracts are taken from the poem “The Silver Wedding” by Prof. T. E. Howard. The poem may be found entire in the book entitled “The Silver Jubilee” published by Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. AI.
What is it, Notre Dame, that thou wouldst celebrate?
Why is it all the people gather at thy gate?
The Jubilee, the Silver Jubilee, they cry, [sky. And lift their voices high, high o’er thee, to the
The old are here, they who did know thee in thy youth;
They who, long years ago, sipped from thy fount of truth;
They who have seen thy growth, beheld thy powers expand,	[land.
Thy beauty bloom, thy fragrance fill the happy
The young are here, the children, who but know thee now,	.
As here thou sitt’st, mature in grace, with matron brow,
Winning, with thy mother love, thy wisdom meet, The generous, gifted spirits gathered at thy feet.
But why have they come, O Notre Dame, why lovingly stay?
Why gather these fathers and mothers and children around thee to-day?
Why shinest, O brilliant sun, from on high, in thy yearly noon,
Flooding glad earth with the beauty and promise of gorgeous June?	•
And why, o’er all, through all, do these harmonies surge and roll ?
Why on thy brow, O Founder, beams thy tranquil soul ?
Why! why do we feel, enrapt, the sweet, the holy power,
Of this Jubilee of Joy, this Silver Wedding hour?
Ah! Notre Dame, thou wouldst rejoice, thou wouldst be glad,
Remember all thy happy years, forget the sad: Thy spirit moves and breathes in all this bright array;
Thou wouldst give vent to bursting thankfulness to-day.
So did the chosen children, in the days of old, When, seven times seven, the Father’s years had o’er them rolled:
So doth the Afother Spouse, all fair, the spotless Dove,
When the silver years o’erflow with the gifts of her heavenly Love.
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
339
Thine is, 0 Alma Mater, thine this holy joy, This Jubilee of Love, this blessed Saints’ employ; For gladness dwells within thee, for the bounty given,
While swells thy soul ■frith gratitude to gracious Heaven.
Lo! too, the Jubilee sits on thy reverend brow, Thou favored toiler, gathering in thy harvest now:
Dark days were thine; but now the silvery beam for thee:
Ah! long may they beam, till glows thy Golden Jubilee 1
But while we celebrate this double Jubilee, Our Father’s and our Alma Mater’s, joyously; No less these surging crowds, this great display, Proclaim, we celebrate a Silver Wedding day.
Here in the wilderness, one-fourth a century gone, Were Faith and Science wed, and made forever one. Here have they dwelt, and reared their goodly sons, Children of mind and soul, whose nature even runs;
Not superstitious, taking aught on human -trust, Not plunging mad, but pausing where frail creatures must;
By science unto wisdom led, where science can, While faith discloses realms beyond the realms of man:
So DantS, led by Virgil, paused beneath the stars; Saint Beatrice ’twas led beyond the golden bars.
Thus, taught of earth and heaven, men reach their proper stature,
Filling the plan marked out by God and perfect nature;	’
Not monsters, not o’ergrown, or dwarfed, in whole or part;
But each in just proportion, body, mind, and heart. ‘	_
This is creation’s voice, would we but rightly take her,
Ever in her works suggesting her great Maker; This, too, the voice of calmer reason, when the mind
By no poor prejudice or passion is confined.
The culture of the heart must be no more neglected,
If we desire our better nature be perfected.
If we would not have all our budding greatness blighted,	.
The living spirit in us must no more be slighted;
No more the good within us from the great divorced—
Unnatural, the soul and mind asunder forced!
********
What would we have men practice in maturer age, That, says the maxim, should their early thoughts engage.
And time confirms this teaching:—while the Grecian state
Preserved the morals of her youth, she still was great;
But Greece, her morals gone, with mind yet bright and keen,
No orator could save from fall most base and mean: So Rome, while stoic virtue ruled her youthful mind,
Stood, in her strength, the mighty mistress of mankind;
But Rome, corrupt of heart, and reveling round her boards,	.	-
Fell, in her shame, the prey of rude barbarian hordes;
England, the Catholic, wrung charters from her kings,
Charters to which, e’en still, our blessed freedom clings,—
Wrung victory from those would make her children slaves,—
Then sought the main, to shout, Britannia rules the waves;	[fear;
But England, rotten to the core, trembles with Her sceptre is gone, and the boding future draws near and more near.
********
Should we not act to save our children, save our nation,
From this utter shame, this abject degradation ? Less of boasting would befit us, without measure Highly favored, while wetrifle without treasure: Much is given us, much again will be expected— Woe, woe, dear land, if thy rich talents are neglected !
A duty links with every privilege: and our youth, While taught all science, should be taught all moral truth.
’Tis good to seek for wealth, lead roads from sea to sea,
Found cities and commonwealths for a people great and free,
All this is noble; but far nobler’s yet to do: To rear a virtuous youth, a mahly and a true.
Our hobby and our pet, our lauded common school, Must train up men, fit to be free, and fit to rule; Religion must with science there again unite, If we would have our great free people live aright.
Ah! then the silver age, and soon will come the golden;
When laws are good, and power by good men will be holden.
No offices will then be bought for treacherous gold,
Nor debts be paid by votes, and trust and honor sold;
No thieves escape their just deserts, no murderers rife;
No good men wronged, no modest men kept down by strife;
No hasty marriage, quickly made and broke for sport,—	.
Made by a justice, and unmade by act of court; But moral law, the higher law, will rule the free,— Good faith and honor guarding our proud liberty.
Then shalt thou celebrate thy Jubilee, dear land, From the blue Atlantic to Pacific’s purple strand.
340	THE SCHOLASTIC TEAR.
Then from far Alaska unto sunny Mexico,
From Rio Grande to Maine, shall milk and honey flow.
From Allegbanies to the Parks of Colorado, All the vallies shall put on a fine bravado;
And Peace, strong Peace, shall wave her blessed banners o’er us,
While the Gulf shall laugh and the Lakes respond in mighty chorus.
O that will be the wedding of the great and good, The Jubilee of universal brotherhood ;
When the troubled waters shall heed the whisper, Peace, be still!
O day for which we hope and strive with all our will,
When thy blooming morn shall dawn, from the pine land to the palm,
May they not forget, in their joy and their grand triumphal psalm,
This Silver Wedding day, this Jubilee of Notre Dame.
Mr. Howard’s poem was placid, somewhat melancholy, very high in tone and in its teachings, —for it partakes largely of the didactic element. Mr. Edwards’ debut as a vocalist was another in-teresting'episode in the afternoon, and we will say of him, without flattery, that he did well, and pleased his audience.	'
Never, we think, did we have so large a crowd —not even on the great 31st of May. The length of time was greater, too, than that allotted to any former Commencement exercises. We think our Silver Jubilee will not soon be forgotten. It has been the means of bringing together many old friends, and many new ones. We believe that in future the graduates of one year will no longer be strangers to those of succeeding ones, but that all will meet at least annually, as children of a common alma mater.
The Associated Alumni.
Of the meeting of the Associated Alumni, such of it as may be made public, we leave the able and efficient secretary to speak as becometh his position. Be ours to laud the welcome song: “ ’Tis sweet to meet, and fondly greet,” &c., that preceded, and express our appreciation of the social banquet that succeeded it.
We wish that more of our Associated Alumni had managed to be in time for th# banquet. A social dinner rightly conducted is an excellent bond of union and good-fellowship. Our friends nearly all came “ the day after the fair.”
As to the Cantata, we do not think that it has been fully appreciated in any of the reports that we have read, nor do we feel ourselves capable of attempting a scientific analysis of its merits. We will say, however, that Prof. Corby never before (and surely that is saying much) conferred upon us so great a satisfaction as by his brilliant tenor solo, and we must not omit to express our delight at the deep and sonorous bass of Prof. C. A. B. Von Weller. The vast number of singers that formed the chorus, uttered the fullest and most harmonious mass of voice probably ever heard at Notre Dame.
The speeches were at least up to our average, and the Greek and Latin orations were above it. We think Mr. Walker’s Greek is decidedly the best we ever heard from the stage of Washington Hall. Mr. McClain’s Latin, though rather philosophic than classical, was delivered with a graceful ease and emphatic gesture which secured for it the pre-eminence we have given.
We had expected to be honored by General Sherman’s presence at our Annual Commencement till the following dispatch made us relinquish the hope we had entertained:
Washington, D. C., June 21,1869.
Rev. E. Sorus, Notre Dame, Ind.:
Just back from West Point. Am very sorry that I cannot be present with you on the 23d inst. Accept my best wishes for the prosperity of your truly great institution. .
W. T. Sherman, General. -
Professor Girac’s magnificent compositions, the “ Song of the Alumni,” the “ Farewell Song,’’ and, above all, the “ Grand Cantata,” will last as imperishable monuments of his genius. Prof. Girac has won for himself the esteem and admiration of all by his high talents and singular modesty.
The Premiums for Politeness, Neatness and Diligence have been abolished by the universal suffrage of the members of the Faculty, at a meeting held June 19 th.
The reasons which led the Faculty to this resolution are obvious enough; for although old customs and ancient usages are to be respected and honored in their proper time and place, as may have been once the premiums aforesaid, when Notre Dame counted a few students from the neighboring counties, now that hundreds of young men of good education congregate at Notre Dame, rewards for Politeness or Neatness are no longer in accordance with our progress' and the present standing of the University.
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
341
A New Ghurcli for Notre Danie.
The obvious need of a new and capacious church at Notre Dame, somewhat in keeping with the College, has been felt so much of late years, and the encouragement from various parts has been so promising and universal, that at last the board of administration of Notre Dame have decided upon the erection of a sanctuary which shall correspond to the wants and satisfy all expectations. The new church will be a splendid structure, of a size to afford accommodation to all even on our greatest festival days. The foundation will be laid next fall, and the walls will be raised and made ready to receive the roof in fifteen months hence. The new church will be completed within two years. We need scarcely say, that all the friends and patrons of Notre Dame are kindly invited to help in the good undertaking.
A copy of the “ Memorial ” was presented to us by Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M., the compiler, for which valuable gift the Professor will please accept our heartfelt acknowledgments. For some time past we have kept our readers interested in the progress of the work, which was intended to commemorate the celebrations just ended. We did so because we felt that thousands of friends were anxiously waiting for the appearance of the book, and because we knew it would then do more than confirm all the good we have said of it. Now, the Memorial is elegantly printed and bound, and for sale at §2 50 per copy at the office at Notre Dame. What we could add in its praise would scarcely do justice to the work, so we simply refer our readers to the numerous favorable notices of the public press.
The Examination.—The Examination passed off very satisfactorily for both students and Professors.
The notes sent us from the different Boards show a much higher percentage than at the February Examination. This, we expected, would be the case. It follows naturally from the greater proficiency attained by the students in their Classes and their serious application during the last months. The competitions written in all the Classes help not a little to bring this good result about, inasmuch as it refreshed the memory of the students and obliged them to master the matters gone over during the Session.
The attendance at the Examination has been
very prompt and regular; and, with the exception of a very few who tried to evade it, and whose notes bear record of the fact, we must congratulate all the students for corresponding so well to the desires of the Faculty. The notes of the Examination of June, 1869, will be kept as a standing record in the archives and published as soon as time and space will permit.
Competitions.—We have never seen a finer collection of beautiful Compositions than was exhibited in the parlor of the College during the Commencement days.	.
Eleven enormous volumes in quarto, beautifully bound, still more beautifully illustrated by the matters which they contain: such is the extent of the work of a few days. These Compositions have been written with the greatest care, and as far as cleanliness is concerned they cannot be surpassed by any ulterior ones. As to their accuracy and perfectness, it is evident that such a desideratum could be expected at least from the greater number, and therefore it is not so much models of their kind that are exhibited as specimens of each student’s ability and proficiency in his Class. Indeed we have detected many mistakes in some of them; in some others we have found very few, and in not a small number we have found signs of real excellence and even exemption from the casual mistakes which are wont to creep into a student’s works.
We invite all our visitors to an attentive examination of the above-mentioned Compositions.
Mr. Chas. C. Chatfield, editor and publisher of The College Courant, New Haven, Conn., will send his paper for one year, commencing July 1st, 1869, for $3, provided the subscription be received before July the 10th, 1869. The College Courant has become an invaluable paper to all Professors and students whodesire to be acquainted with the college affairs of the country. It is very ably edited and is worthy of the patronage of all the friends of education, to whom its columns are open for a free discussion of the important school-questions of our day. s
■ ■ m
The time of vacation is usually understood to be a time of enjoyment—so it should be within certain limits, yet no time requires more caution, on the part of the student, to prevent the relaxation and reaction following ten months of close study from being too great.
343	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	
Farewell! BrCoz. “Farewell!” The word is sadly said, ’Mid falling tears— . And tho’ the sound be quickly sped, Its echoes linger in the soul Long days and years 1 “ Farewell!” How many joyous scenes, Devoid of strife, Brom dark oblivion’s power it wins, And, Godlike, from the dead recalls Again to life! “Farewell!" The suns of fairer days Bright beam again— Dispelling with their golden rays, From many a cloud-enshrouded heart, Dark nights of pain 1 “ Farewdl! ” The friends of vanished years Before us rise— With looks of love that banish tears, (Fond Nature’s witnesses of woej From streaming eyes! “Farewell!" The hopes of younger days Bevive again— And brightly on our pathway blaze, Tnat we the footprints there may trace Of nobler men! “ Farwdl!" The warrior strides afield, To win renown—	. With stroke of sword and dent of shield, As God doth will, to die, or gain The victor’s crown I “ Farewell!” The suffering Christian’s head And humble heart Are bowed in love to Him who said, “ Well-chosen, child, be thine for aye Thebetterpart!" Friends of the days of “Auld lang syne,"	■ All! who can tell What weight of woe this heart of mine Oppresses, as, to one and ah, I say, Farewell! Number of Students at Notre Dame, 1868-9. —Illinois, 126 ; Indiana, 95; Michigan, 51; Ohio, 37; Missouri, 31; Iowa, 27; Kentucky, 26; New York, 16; Wisconsin, 14; Pennsylvania, 8; Tennessee, 5; Massachusetts, 3; New Jersey, 2; Louisiana, 2; California, 2; Kansas, 2; Arkansas, 1 ; Oregon, 1; Colorado, 1; Mississippi, 1; District of Columbia, 1; New Mexico,1; Canada, 1; South America, 1. Total, 455. This list does not comprehend the students from the Manual Labor- School, numbering over fifty.	Closing Exercises at St. Mary’s Female Academy. [From the Chicago Tribune, Jnne 26th. St. Mary’s Female Academy held its annual exercises on the 24th, the day following Notre Dame, and for which occasion many of the visitors of the day before remained to witness the exercises of the latter institution. The young ladies, who have been under the guidance of the talented and faithful Mother Superior, M. Angela, who marks each year with substantial progress, made a very fine appearance. For the scholastic year just closed, Mother Angela notes in the full tide of success the establishment of a School of Design, which was very generally remarked by visitors as being an honor to the West. The instruction is given by a lady teacher who is not a member of the order which governs the school, and who is paid an exceedingly liberal salary. • The first instruction is from blocks of cubes, squares, angles and rounds, placed in every conceivable form and shape, that the student may cultivate correct ideas of perspective; then follows drawing from plaster casts of hands, feet, faces, busts, etc. When proficient in these, comes drawing from nature, of which the magnificent and picturesque scenery of St. Mary’s, with its artistic cultivated scenery as an adjunct, affords ample scope; and in one of the parlors were displayed many pieces of rare excellence, but want of space forbids a more extended notice. Another of the superior branches is that of vocal and instrumental music, the first being under the direction of Miss Smythe, upon whom was bestowed the best musical education afforded in England, Switzerland and Germany, receiving the finishing touches under Signor Blanchard and Senora Corrilli. In the musical department were 185 pupils, many of whom gave evidence of their superior training. Another branch upon which the institution prides itself is that art known to a few ladies of the present day—the art of domestic economy— which they denominate the crowning department of the institution. Five of the graduates received premiums for excellence in this department, consisting of beautiful pointed cases of pins and needles brought from the Old World by Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of' the Order. In each of the cases was written the name of the recipient, together with appropriate mottoes from the Proverbs: “ She has made for
I
THE SCHOLASTIC TEAR.
343
herself clothing of tapestry; fine linen and purple are her clothing.” “ Give her the fruits of her hands, and let her works praise her in the gates.”
At 11 o’clock a. m. the exercises opened with a grand entrance march from Tannhauser, executed on four pianos and two harps, by ten fair young ladies, in beautiful style. During this performance, the school entered upon the stage from each side, headed by the Minims. They came forward by twos, courtesying, and then retiring to their seats. There was the courtesy haughty, proud, sedate, grave, gay, coquettish, frank, joyous, and the courtesy easy and graceful. To the beholder it was a fine study.
As soon as they were seated, the audience was served with a treat not in the programme. Miss Smythe came forward by special request previously made, and sang the “Nightingale’s Trill,” which was received with rapturous applause.
It has come to be an established custom for Bishop J. H. Luers, of Fort Wayne, to be present both here and at Notre Dame and distribute the varied premiums, which next took place, to the junior and preparatory departments; these consisted of books.
The vocal classes of 28 members next gave a chorus—from “La Sonambula” (Bellini), under the direction of Miss Smythe. It was a grand success.
The salutatory of Miss E. Crouch, of Jackson, Mich., was a very creditable composition, likening the members of the Graduating Class to the several virtues, Modesty, Humility, Hope, Patience, Candor and Benevolence. The members of the Class to whom these virtues were assimilated are, Miss E. Crouch, Miss M. Twoomey, Goshen, Ind., Misses Laura and Lizzie Tong, Columbus, O.; Miss Kate Cunnea, Morris, Ill.; and Miss Kate Livingston, Kankakee, Ill.
Miss A. Mulhall sang an aria from “ L’Africaine” (Meyerbeer). She has a fair voice with fine cultivation.
Miss M. Twoomey then gave an essay on the Contemplation of Nature, which was well received. This young lady is but 15 years old, but is one of the brightest of the Graduating Class.
A vocal duet from Mendelssohn, by the accomplished Carrie Davenport, of Elkhart, and Kate Medill, of Chicago, followed. This was rendered with exceeding artistic grace, and was highly complimentary to the musical talents of the young ladies. Miss Davenport has been for several years noted as a most gifted musical artist, and
acquitted herself on this occasion in a maimer satisfactory to all.
The Misses Tong read an alternate essay on Light and Shadow, which was as beautiful as these accomplished twins, between whom, in feature, form, action or voice, none but the most intimate can distinguish.
Miss Mulhall sang a solo, “ Farewell, My Only Love,” in fine tone.
Miss Cunnea’s essay on “Logic,” was another of the excellent compositions.
Miss Ella Ewing, of Ohio, read a fine address to the Rev. Father Sorin, Superior General of the ■ Order, in honor of the Silver Jubilee.
“ The Two Sisters,” an operetta, by Saroni, was then given by the following young ladies:
Mable Stanley, Queen elect .... Miss C. Davenport Florence, her Sister ,	.	.	.	. '. Miss J. Hynds
Marina	MissM. Edwards
Corina ........ Miss’ C. Foote Anna	Miss K. Medill
Preciosa, afterwards Florence Maritana, Miss L. Chamberlain Aragona.....................Miss	A. Walker
Maud........................Miss	M. Walton
Leona.....................  Miss	R. Rettig
Esther......................Miss	E. Ewing
Miss Jenny Hynds was marked, in addition to the others before noticed, as having superior musical talent.
Cavatina, “The Vision” (Verdi), by Miss Davenport, was a master effort.
“ The Juniors’ Choice,” a play by the little ones was an affair which created great enthusiasm.
Overture to Figaro (Mozart), Pianos—Misses C. Foote, Laura Tong, A. Mulhall, C. Davenport, K. Livingston, K. Young, M. Sherland, Lizzie Tong and J. Hynds, was rendered with perfect time.	•
The conferring of the graduating honors, consisting of large gold medals of the same pattern but larger than those of Notre Dame, and crowns of honor, were conferred upon Misses K. Livingston, L. and L. Tong, E. Crouch, K. Cunnea and M. Twoomey.
Crowns of honor, Senior Department, for amiable, polite and correct deportment, were awarded to Misses A. Mulhall, A. Ewing, M. Alexander, J. Dobson and E. Kirwin.
Second and third honors, twenty-two each.
Crowns of honor, Junior Department, to M.’ Letourneau, J. Wilder and B. Meyers.
Second honors to thirteen.
Third honors to two.
Also, honors to several Minims.
First premiums in domestic economy to Misses
I
344
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
K. Livingston, L. and L. Tong, E. Crouch, and K. Cunnea.
Premiums for plain sewing were awarded to nineteen young ladies.
Miss K. Livingston read the valedictory, bidding an affectionate farewell to all.
Rev. F. P. Boyle was introduced by Rev. W. Corby, and made an excellent oration.
The exeicises then closed with the March, “ Chant du Bivouac” (Kuchen), Misses J. Arrington, M. Kirwin, L. English, N. Thompson, M. Walton, E. Ruger, K. Rettig, T. Van Horn; Harps, Misses M. Shetland, C. Davenport, with accomplished grace. The guests were then invited to an elegant repast, after which adieus were exchanged, and then a rapid drive to the railroad depot at South Bend.
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY,
Notre Dame, Ind.
St. Mary’s Academy, under the direction of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, is situated on the St. Joseph River, eighty miles east of Chicago, via Michigan Southern Railroad, and two miles from the flourishing town of South Bend.
The site of St. Mary’s is one to claim the admiration of every beholder. It would appear that nature had anticipated the use to which the grounds were to be applied, aud had disposed her advantages to meet the requirements of such an establishment. Magnificent forest trees rising from the banks of one of the most beautiful rivers in the Mississippi Valley still stand in native grandeur; the music of bright waters and healthful breezes inspire activity and energy, while the quiet seclusion invites to reflection and study. For Catalogue, address
Mother M. Angela, Superior,
St. Mary’s Academy, aul-6S	Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
M. S. & N. I. RAILROAD.
Shortest Line I Quickest Time !
PENNSYLVANIA CENTRAL.
Double Track Railroad.
Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago,
On and after January 1, V69, the 9:00 P. M. Tra n from Chicago arrives in New York at 11:00 A. M the second day, hours in advance of any other route-, with co. responding reduction to Boston, Philadelphia, Baltimore aud Washington.
The 4:30 P. M. Train from Chicago arrives in New York at 6:15 the second morning, ly hours in advance of any othen line This Train has an elegant Silver Palace Car running through between Chicago, Philadelphia and New York without change 1
The 8:00 A M. Train from Chicago arrives in New York at 7:00 the second evening, with silver Palace Cars attached! Through between Chicago and New York ivithout change! 3J4 hours in advance of any other route, ar.d in time to make connection for Boston. No other Line oilers this advantage.
Special Train on Saturday afternoon with Silver Palace Car attached.
Trains from principal Western towns which connect with the Saturday evening Train from Chicago and Fori Wayne, and Sunday morning Train from Crestline, run through on Sunday without delay, arriving in New York, Philadelphia. Baltimore and Washington City, hours in advance of all Ili-val Lines! Fares always as low as the lowest route East!
JOHN GRAHAM,
T L. KIMBALL, Gen. West. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago.
Emigrant Ag't, 141 Madison St., Chicago.
JOHN MCDONALD, New York.
mch6 It
Going Most:
SEES
Leave South Bend, 5:17 a. m.
“	“	4:51 p.	m.
“	“	4:09 p.	m.
“	“	2:50 a.	m.
Arrive at Chicago, It	ll
Arrive at Laporte,
a. m p. m p. m a. m
Ihiiwitg uf game,
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
T ZE n M s :
Matriculation Fee......................$	5 00
Boaid, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition
(Latin and Greek included); Washing and .Mending of Linens; Doctor’s Fees and Medicine, and attendance in sick-
ness, per Session of five months....... 150 00
French, German, Italian, Spanish, and Hebrew, each................................ 10	00
Instrumental Music.......................... 12	50
„	Class Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The first Session begins on the first Tuesday of September, the second on the 1st of February.
For further particulars, address	’
I1 twerds to be made invariably in advance.
Use of Piano........................... 10	00
Use of Violin........................... 2	00
Drawing................................ 10	00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus................................. 5	00
Graduation Fee........................ 1.0	00
Students who spend their Summer vacation at the College are charged, extra.................................. 35	00
Bev. W- 00EBY S. 8. 0-, President.