©Ije	IJear.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY AT NOTRE DAME. DEVOTED TO THE INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS.
Vol. I. Notre Dame University, Sept. 14r, 1867. No. 2.
THE OPENING- AT ST. MAEYJS.
While the University of Notre Dame'is rejoicing in the attractions of the magnificent new bell lately arrived from France, St. Mary’s has to congratulate herself upon the acquisition of many little Belles from various quarters of the United States, whose fine tone—mental and moral, we mean, Mr. Editor—already indicated by their modest and elegant deportment, will be brought out, we trust, in the course of the year to come.
Although the classes were principally organized, and studies fairly begun last week, the regular opening of the year, by the Mass of the Holy Ghost, did not take place until Monday morning, September 9th. Upon this occasion the young ladies were addressed by Very Rev. E. Sorin in a sermon replete with instructive suggestions, and important advice, “calculated to inspire them with the firm resolution to make the best possible use of their time while at school, and in this way to reward their parents and guardians for the sacrifice made in the separation, and also to render the absence, from home, of their children, fruitful in improvement. Never, at St. Mary’s, has there been a more cheerful and encouraging beginning; never more docility and earnestness on the part of the pupils, or greater satisfaction on the part of the Faculty.	.
We will not infringe upon the limits of The Scholastic Year, designed for the young gentlemen of Notre Dame, by presenting the entire list of pupils, but will be satisfied to mention the names of those students who have been promoted in the various classes. They are as follows:
From the Third Junior, to the Second Junior, little Ada Burns; from the Second Junior, to the First Junior, little Anna Garrity; from the First Junior, to the Second Intermediate, little Anna Clark, and Katie Swinehart; from the Second Intermediate, to the First Intermediate, the Misses Augusta Sturgis, Mary Lassen, Alice Dunlap, Fannie Butters, Mary Welch, Sarah Walker and Eva Longwell; from the First Intermediate, to
the Third Senior, the Misses Hattie Niel, Laura Shults, Mattie Shirland, Maggie Tuberty, Emma Ruger, Clara Foote, Maggie Keenan, Sarah Teet-sel, Tillie Lafferty, Emma Wheeler, Florence Hines, Mollie McCarthy, Lena Ingersol, Florence Davidson and Jane Ketring; from the Third Senior, to the Second Senior, the Misses Ella Ewing, Carrie Davenport, Fannie North, Alice Gates, Sallie Rooney, Elmira Smith, Mary Blair, Mary Caraher, Bridget Bergan, Frances Grimes, Emma Carr, Carrie Bertrand, Ellen Camp, [who was promoted from the First Intermediate,] Iola Conway and Alice Radin; from the Second Senior, to the First Senior, the Misses Nora Maher, Lizzie Tong, Laura Tong, Agnes Ewing, Laura Lewis, Jennie Arrington, Mary Van Patten, Gerty Leedy, Anna Wheeler, Anna Machin and Kate Livingston. ~	.
The young ladies promoted from the First Senior to the Graduating. Class, are as follows:
The Misses Jennie Schutt, Clemie Plimpton, Lizzie Plimpton, Kate Doran, Mary Twomey, Mary Tripp and Flora Arrington.	-
As the regular points have not yet'been awarded, we shall not be.expected to furnish a general report from the classes, but can scarcely refrain from mentioning two compositions from the Graduating-’Class; and although there were several very good, must pronounce that written'by Miss Jennie Schutt, of Elkhart, Indiana, to be the best. Her theme was “Ambition.” The second w’as written in a facetious strain, on “ Chirography, as Indicative of Character,” by Miss Mary-Tripp, ■ of Wellington, Ohio.	-
We are happy to state that a highly esteemed member of the First Senior Class of last year is engaged as a contributor to the pages of the Catholic Telegraph, of Cincinnati, her former place of residence. Those of our friends who have had the pleasure of listening to the excellent compo-’sitions read by Miss’Cecilia"Ascher, at St. Mary’s, upon various occasions, will be pleased to find that one with such unmistakable ability has entered the literary arena at so early an age, and in


a manner so honorable to her sound j udgment and good heart.
Professor Ziegfeld, on Wednesday, the 11th inst., gave his first lessons in vocal music, and the young ladies are delighted -with their good fortune in being placed under the instructions of this finished gentleman and accomplished master of his art.	-	,
Although the Religious Sodalities, Literary Associations, etc., of the Institution are not yet reorganized for the year, the <;St^Iary’s Debating Club” is, however, in full operation.' We beg the good friends of dur quiet retreat not to be startled at this announcement, for we will explain ourselves.	•
While .the charming moonlight of these Septemberevenings is improved by the members of the University, in athletic sports, in boating on those pretty lakes, perhaps, in games at,base ball, or in viewing the planets through the telescope, while the air resounds with the music of the new bell, so that “ animated nature” is out of breath, and holds its peace, the illuminated grove in front of the Chapel of Loretto is the theatre of a remarkable controversy by the abovenamed Debating Club, or Katy-Did Congress, we might better call it, which holds its annual session every September, in this very spot. We know not what the question is, about which they are disputing, but presume the astute pleaders may .desire to confer the elective franchise upon all the . Katies in the-world. If this is the case, we know that there is not a’Kate at St. Mary’s who will be influenced by their misguided benevolence; for we believe that woman’s province is in the quiet of the home circle, and that the ambition to vote, and to perform masculine duties, robs woman and home of their most sacred rights. Consequently, we recommend these innovating Katy-Dids to the tender mercies of Rev. Father Carrier, or Brother Peter, that they may learn a conservative lesson in the Museum of the College.
Three of our Graduates have afforded us the pleasure of a visit since the first- of the month: Miss Nellie Schutt, of Elkhart, Indiana, a Graduate of 1863 ,• Miss Mary Mukautz, of Bourbon- -nais Grove, Illinois, a Graduate and recipient of the Cross of Honor in 1866; and Miss Mollie Shults, of Wabash, Indiana, upon whom the medal was conferred at the last Commencement.
On Thursday, Sept. 13, the following pupils . arrived:
Miss Katie Connelly, of Toledo, Ohio; Miss . Mary Morrill, of Paw Paw, Michigan; Miss Alice
Dunn, of Chicago, Illinois; Miss Katie Jarvis, and Miss Anna Briggs, both of Madison, Wis-
consin.-	-	•
■■■	MO	‘
ADDITIONAL LIST OF STUDENTS OF NOTES DAME.
September 9th.
John W. Ryan. Albert B. White, Louis Hilsendegen, H. J. Falkenbach, Michael O’Meara, John B. Gaunt, . .. George Warn, Francis Jennings, Otis S. Walker, . Edward S. Walker, Rudolph Cure, Homer Johnson, Burr Woolman, Andrew Celia, ‘Porter S. Rhodes, William P. Rhodes John Keveny, Hiram B. Keeler, Gabriel Summers, Edward M. Callahan, F. A. O’Connor,
Terre Coupee, Ind. Hanover, Ill. Detroit, Mich. Columbus, Ohio. Cincinnati, “ El Paso, III.
Chicago, “ Notre Dame, Ind. Chicago, III. .
It	Cl
Elkhart, Ind. , New Carlisle, Ind.
Chicago, HE Savanna, “
<C	IC
Chicago, “	-
o J
Union, Mich. Notre Dame, Ind.
Delphi, “ Monroe, Mich.
September 10th.
William B- Wallace, John McHugh, George Ruger, Frank B; Ingersoll, Charles K. Hibben, William P. Weaver, Michdel Horgan,
Rochester, Ind.
Lafayette, Ind.
Cl	cc
> U	It
Chicago, Ill.
Miamisburgh, Oliio. Rockford, Illinois.
September 11th.
Richard G. Heffernan. Benjamin Heffernan, George W. Morgan, Z. F. Coup, Joseph Winterbotham, John D. McCormick,
Louisville, Kentucky. « «
Marco, Indiana. Delevan, Wisconsin. Fort Madison, Iowa. East Rush Creek, Ohio.
Why is a piece of India Rubber, with sand in it, like a race horse covered with ink ? Because it’s an Ink Eraser—(inky racer).	-
’ Why does the skunk adopt his peculiar method of defense against his pursuers? To throw th pm off the scent.
4
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
down trees ha ve produced the effect intended. Cut and lop off dead limbs, Messieurs les Ostrogoths, as much as you please, but, pray, “ spare the tree.”
Special Observations.
It must to distinctiy understood that the Editor declines Icing responsible for the opinions of his correspondents.
All commnnications for Tut: Scholastic- Year, intended for publication, must arrive here the Thursday lefore the Saturday of publication.	-	.
All cominunicatjcits must be signed by the real name ef the correspondent, who may, however, choose another name as a signature to his article.	'	'
As Use “ Administration" of The Scholastic. Year is entirely' disconnected from that of the Ave Maria, all letters referring to The Scholastic Teak should be addressed to
•	Bev. X. JI. GILLESPIE, Ed. S. Y, •
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Tree Question.
Mr. Editor: Your opening fusillade reminds me of an occasion, during the war of the great rebellion, when I was quietly seated beneath a fine old tree, my horse eating clover, and myself dining on “ hard tack” and coffee. I was congratulating myself on the luxury of my.fare; for luxury it was in those days. I was congratulating my trusty .steed, as well, for the choice and rare morsels in which he was at the moment reveling. Thus occupied and musing I sat, when all of a sudden the simultaneous crash of thirty cannon burst on my affrighted car, some of them sending their shells through the very boughs of the trees ■ beneath which I was seated. It was a fearful opening, sir, take my word for it,—on'e that I shall always remember with commingled feelings of terrorand joy—terror, by reason of the shock I got—and 'joy, that I wasn’t hit. And hence it is that your opening fusillade reminded me so forcibly of that eventful day; for your opening, Sir. Editor, was, if you permit me to say it, terrible, terrible, sir, to all wood-cutters; and I was so glad that I “wa’nt hit,” for I’d hate you know
•'that I, too, am in the wood-cutting business. And ' my joy is all the greater that I had a project in mind, which T was on the eve of carrying into ' execution, when my attention was called to your onslaught on “ Vandalism,” which so terrified me that I have postponed my project till having asked, through your able columns, an answer to
■ this question: Is there any known recipe for restoring a dead limb to life ? Of course, you will understand, the dead limb of a tree. “ I pause
for a reply.
Yours, very terrifiedly, A Neighbor.
Wild Woods, Ind., Sept. 11, 1867.
We are glad to see that our remarks on cutting
That Venerated Oak.—Will our kind friend, theLocal Editor of The Scholastic Year, please' to have a little patience with us, and to suspend, for awhile, his judgment? We ask this favor of him in the very “name of all that is aesthetic.” It is certainly ^j^seworthy-in the author of the article entitled “An Act of Vandalism,” to entertain such deep-felt veneration and respect for whatever is hallowed by the reminiscences of “long and endearing associations,” and it must be pardonable to him should he denounce with extreme indignation any.real “ unhallowed work of vandalism” he may witness in his daily peregina-tions; but does it not, we would respectfully ask, —does it not positively verge on the ridiculous when the cutting down of tin old, jagged, ill-shaped oak tree is sufficient to excite all the indignant feelings of his (esthetic mind? Truly, he must have shed abundant tears,—(tears, * * * oh! how sacred* and precious!)—when he saw that the Ostrogoths had already proceeded too far “on their unhallowed work for his intercession, (the good, tender-hearted, aesthetic man I) to be of any avail.” Well, let him be comforted; there are yet many oak trees behind. Saint Joseph's Novitiate, just as old, as heautiful, as asthetic as “ the time-worn and venerated trunk,” the object ■ of his poignant regrets! As to the tree’s forming a natural cross, we are inclined to believe that ' the ■writer has stretched someicliat 'his visual powers. It has been remarked that when a man looks intently at.any far-distant object, his imagination is wont to give it a particular, ,or, not unfrequently, a fanciful aspect or shape. Might not our ajsthetic friend have strained his optical organs in like manner, and fancied that that oddlooking, ragged tree was built in the shape of a cross ?	-	. .
Vandals—Ostrogoths—are rather hard words, for the worthy nations of old which bore these Lames have not left after-them, we are told-, the best of records, at least with regard to their appreciation ' of or their respect for, “ all that is. (esthetic and, no doubt, our aesthetic friend holds them in perfect horror; and to call people by the names of -Vandals or Ostrogoths is surely in his eyes a most bitter reproach. - However, let him permit us to entertain a different opinion of our brave ancestors, and willingly to accept with a noble pride the names he considers as opprobrious.

h
1
' Y
t
I
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
5
Grotius, a man who knew something also about {esthetics and-history,—the erudite Grotius, in his . Historia Goth-rrum. et Vandctlorvm, says: “All the Gothic princes and tribes were distinguished, ■ in some degree, as friends Mfine arts, science and learning. * * * They were highly commendable for morality, integrity, love of justice and good faith.” -	.	.
With such an array of virtues in a people, ice may well rest satisfied to called Ostrogoths. Would that the sayiug of th^Sothic King, Theo’ doric, were that of the Ostrogoths of St. Joseph’s Novitiate: “ The only regret of the people of Notre Dame should be that the Goths had not come at an earlier period!”	•’	'
In the first line of this article we requested our kind friend to have a little patience with us, and most assuredly he will do so, for his goodness of heart knows no bound,—particularly when the subject of {esthetics is not in question; he will also suspend his judgment when he is told that the Ostrogoths of the St. Joseph’s Novitiate intend, D. V., to replace, next spring, that uglylooking, ill-shaped oak tree by quite a number of finely-built Lombardy poplars 1
An. Ostrogoth.
We perceive by the concluding words of the above communication that we were slightly in error as to the particular barbaric tribe to which the wood-cutters belong. It seems they are neither Vandals nor Ostrogoths, but Lombards. We have doubt their poplars will be popular among those who have no regard for the relics of the past, and that the opera of I Lombardi will be pronounced admirable by rhe fashionables of the new collegiate generation.
------
For The Scholastic Year. Shipping.
Why have not all the tars of Notre Dame taken to the water yet ? Where is that fearless captain, Louis Moran, who commanded the Lady of the Lake on our beautiful lake St. Joseph. Where is pilot G. Myers, and the well-tried mate, James Scott ? We understand that the captain will return when . the white fish of the St. Clair river will give him leave of absence; and his mate, now owning a ■ beautiful craft on Lake Michigan, whenjhe bad weather sets in. We wish them a speedy return trip. In the meanwhile it would be well for the surviving members of the St. Joseph Boating Club to get ready for some lake excursions during the
Fall, and have the'sails and riggings of their-boat repaired at once. -	.
The Social Bowing Club seems, for the present, to have suspended all business. Their host is laid up for repairs. More boats on the lakes would be very desirable, as it would give us a chance to see some of those exciting races, so popular in our age. A few energetic men could do' a great deal in the way of getting up the object desired.	-	A Friend.
. '	.	-------w———	___
For The Scholastic Year/
Mr. Editor: Last Wednesday, the first recreation day of the session, I was much pleased with the general deportment of the students in ranks, on review, but the effect produced on my mind was lessened by the variety of costumes. Can we not have uniformity in dress as well as in all things else in the Institution ? I doubt not that the students themselves would prefer it to any other dress if the officers were so inclined. Who gives the impetus to the movement ?	.
A Looker-on.
2
St. Joseph’s Musical Association. '
The Notre Dame University Cornet Band was newly, organized September 12th, 1867. The.of-ficers are as follows:
James Dickinson, Presideht.	.
- R. V. Tillman, Vice-President.
M. Keating, Treasurer.	.
N. S. Wood, Secretary.
E. S. Ball, Corresponding Secretary.
George Darr, Librarian. .
Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M., Business Manager.
Prof. John O’Neill, Musical Doctor, Teacher and Director.
There are at present 22 members.
Saint Cecilia’s Society.
We understand that this Society, which was established some three years ago for the purpose of improving the musical and dramatic talent of the Junior Department, has had a meeting pre-— paratory to the reorganizing for this scholastic year. We have learned that several new pieces, among which are the “ Prodigal Law Student,” the “Alpine Horn,” have been written expressly for this Society, and will be rendered by the members before long.
The anticipations of all are sanguine over the
i

6	'	THE SCHOL success they are sure of having. It will certainly be a grea€ source of pleasure for us to see them once more marching through our pleasant groves with their martial music giving life and joy to their fellow-students. Success to themI Base Ball. The Star of the West Base Ball Club was reorganized on Sunday, the Sth inst. Brother Florentins retains his previous office as Director. The following officers were unanimously elected by the active members of the club : John 31. Flanigen, President. Thomas Dupuis, Vice-President. H. D. Eisenman, Secretary.	- James Sutherland, Treasurer. John Burns, Assistant Treasurer. David Wile, Censor.	. J. 0. Skelly, Field Captain of first nine. L. Wilson, Field Captain of second nine. We will endeavor to give to the readers of The Scholastic Year az few interesting items of games to be played during the year. ‘	J. M. FLANIGEN, Pres’t. H. L. Eisenman, Sec’y. -	7 P. S.—This Club is composed of Junior stu--dents.	. Our Dramatic Society seems to be behind the times—instead of behind the scenes—as it should be, practising for the coming festival. It is in the Thespians we put our chief trust for an evening’s entertainment, and they should not only feel honored by the confidence reposed in them, but should endeavor to increase and strengthen it by keeping up their reputation. We read in an exchange that the young Prince Imperial, who one day will likely ascend the ’ throne of France and be Commander-in-Chief of all the French soldiers, is now corporal in the army and acted as sentry in the camp at Chalons when he was there. The young prince has to go through all the military grades, and, what is more, learn the duties of each, and perform them, too.	' Here in America every boy is a prince .imperial—at any rate—and every boy may hope one day to become the Commander-in-Chief of our army. It would be well, then, for our American princes to learn a lesson from the young prince across the sea; and the lesson is, that to know how to command they must learn how. to obey.	ASTIC YEAR.	’ * > LOCAL.
	The Minims and the Peach Basket. ' • Among.the various improvements recently made at Notre Dame, not the least remarkable are the new quarters prepared for the Minims. They ha’ve moved from the West to the East, leaving nothing behind save, perhaps, a little regret at goipgaway from the close neighborhood to the cakes, plum puddings, pies; etc. But they have found a compensation even for this, in the fact that their splendid new quarters are close by Rev. Father Provincial’s apartments.	.	.. A few days ago the latter received, by express, from Hon.	, a magnificent present of western peaches. Knowing that before he could eat all, nine-tenths of the delicious fruit would be spoiled, he silently went to the Minims,’ and opening the door of the study-room, wffiere each and all were busily taken up with their books, he exhibited, before the whole assembly, the rich Express present.	.	.. To start to their feet; to fix their eyes on the basket, with joined hands and joyful countenance, was a strategic movement, made with alarming rapidity and precision. They seemed to be ready to make an instantaneous attack on the enemy as they cried out, in full chorus: ‘ “ Peaches— peaches.”	' There were enough peaches for all; and no doubt each one blessed in his heart the h^iorable gentleman who had sent such an acceptable gift. How easy it is to make little, innocent hearts happy! This was given them as a reward for their excellent conduct since their return; and no doubt they have resolved to study even better hereafter, at least until the peach season is oyer. - .	‘ NILES. ’ Fall of an Aerolite.—r0ne of these interest-, ing atmospheric phenomena was observed at Niles lately, striking the ground- in the middle of the principal street, and frightening a .respectable team of horses out of a due regard for the proprieties of civilized life. On examination it proved to be of spherical form and about three inches in diameter, but of a tough leathery consistence, very different from the ordinary run of aerolites. The energetic and inquisitive inhabitants of Niles, having scrutinized it thoroughly through their gold-bowed spectacles, finally placed it under a


THE SCHOLASTIC* YEAR.
A
glass case in the post office, for the gratification of the curious. Here it was recognized by a visitor from Notre Dame, as a ball struck some days before by an athletic member of the Mutual Base Ball Club, and which had never been heard of since. This should be a warning to all athletic young men not to strike too high. If the ball'had fallen-into the middle of Lake Michigan, or the Great Desert of Sahara, instead of a well-organized and properly-behaved city like* Niles, Michigan, the members of the Mutual Base Ball Club might never—never—have seen it again.
. —
Ti e Missionaries’ Home.—This interesting establishment has *begun at last to show signs of completion. We noticed a large and competent body of workmen busily engaged about the precincts this morning, and to judge by the brisk appearance of things in general, a few weeks will be sufficient to add a new and prominent feature to our northern landscape. The building, as the sick have often observed, forms the terminus to the vista looking north down’the infirmary corridors, and in the semi-chaotic state which the last several years have witnessed, it was not an object ’ calculated to elevate the drooping spirits of those whom temporary suffering had obliged to sojourn in that institution. But nowj brilliant and complete in its creamy brick and facings of Joliet stone, with the sun shining gaily on its southern . front, it will arouse bright thoughts in the hearts of the depressed, and cheer the sorrowful, and lonely with dreamy foreshadowings of a happier laud. No doubt the taste of the gentlemen for whose dwelling-place it is destined will prompt them to adorn the neighboring grounds with parterres and plantations, such as already form the charm of "the two novitiates, and thus the environs of our lovely lake will rejoice in a new attraction.	•
_ ------------------.
The Eagle.—This interesting creature was lately inducted into its new cage, which the ' kindness of our carpenters had provided for it.
The inferior accommodations of the old cage were not calculated to meet the requirements of a bird accustomed from childhood’s hour to high life, and it is hoped that the new cage will be found better adapted to the exigencies of the case. It is ten feet in length (the cage—not the' Eagle) the same in height, and a little more than five feet in breadth. The ceremony of scaring the Eagle out ofthe old cage into the new one was
performed by a numerous and apparently intellectual body of young gentlemen, whom we suppose to be members of the association for the promotion of Ornithological Knowledge and the Personal Comfort of the Feathered Race. We might suggest that, great as has been the trouble taken to minister to the wants of our winged friend, his new cage affords little or no protection against the inclemency of the weather. The position also, selected for the cage, exposes its inmate to the assaults of the passers-by, and the temptation to poke at it is sometimes irresistible. We purpose that it should be placed a little to the southwest, under the branches of the honey locust which adorn that part of Brother Peter’s beautiful and blooming (principally with phlox) garden.	.
--------'
Our Visitors.—The number of visitors at Notre Dame during the past.two weeks has been so great that we are not able to furnish our readers with a detailed record of their names, the more particularly as the proposed visitors’, register has not yet-been opened. We stop the press, however, to notice the arrival of Mr. Claude Riopelle, a rising young lawyer of Detroit, whose reminiscences of college life at Notre Dame are pleasant, both to himself and-his numerous friends. We are happy to see Mr. Riopelle in such good health and spirits, and to hear that he bids so fair to become a distinguished ornament to the legal profession in his native city.	.
A New Building.—A structure—we are at a loss to give it a specific name, but it might be called a parallelopipedon if it were not for the roof,—is now in course of erection over the frame of the big bell, and has been nearly completed. It will suffice to protect the bell against the fury of the elements and screen the delicate susceptibilities of the ringers from the overwhelming compliments of the admiring multitudes below. We hope the time is not far distant when a tower worthy of the bell itself can be built, for regarding the present structure in an aesthetic point of view—well, perhaps, on reconsidering our correspondence, we had better let the testhetic alone in . future. There is a theory about the effect of the sound of bells.on the atmosphere—the bell-weather theory we believe they call it—which deserves the attention of our natural philosophers. It is said that the ringing of large belts, like the firing of cannon, by causing the atmosphere to vibrate, collects and breaks the clouds, which descend in the form of rain. -





A PSHIODICAI.
DEVOTED TO THE LOCAL INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS' OF NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S,
IS published every Saturday, at Notre Dame, Indiana, from the Ave Maria Press. It contains matter under the following heads:	’
1st. Arrivals of Students and Friends at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.
2d. Honorable mention of Students, 'both in regard to Conduct and Studies.
3d. Promotions.
4th. Articles from the Classes in English Composition, selected by their respective Professors.
5th. Bulletins of General Health.
6th. Correspondence from the various Schools connected with the College and St. Mary’s Academy.
7th. Notes and Notices of Field Sports. Boating, etc.
Sth. Matters of General Interest. .
9th. Interesting Correspondence from Schools throughout the Country.	’
All Communications intended for this Paper should be addressed to
BEV. IE H. GILLESPIE.
DAME,
THIS Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, afiords accommodation to Five Hundred Students. Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad, it is of easy access from all parts of the United States.
Matriculation Fee.............................................!............!
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition, (Latin and Greek included;) Washing and Mending of Linens; Doctor’s Fees and Medicine, and attendance in sickness, per St ssion of five months..............................................'......
French, Geunan, Italian, Spanish and Hebrew, each.....................
Instrumental Music.................;........................................
the of Piano.................................................................
Use of Violin.......;.......................................................
Drawing.....................................................................
Painting.....................................".	............................
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus.................................
Graduation Fee....................................................:.........
Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are charged, extra..
PAYMENTS TO BE MADE INVAPMAB LY-IN ADVANCE.
Class-Books, Stationery, etc., Furnished at Current Prices.
§ 5
150
10
10 a
10
20
5
10
35
00
oo co
50
00
50
00
00
00 00
00
The First Session opened on. Tuesday last. The Second Session opens on the 1st of February.
For further particulars address	.
KEV. W. COSSET.


Notre Dame, St. Joseph. Comity, Indiana
.	TWO MILES FROM SOUTH BEND,
ITAS earned its wide-spread popularity by .the devoted efforts of the Sisters of Holy Cross to
J render it the perfection of an educational house. In the Sciences and in the accomplishments the best Teachers aie.secured.	-	.	■
&	AVJ. J xp Zi W V A XS. XV XV U X?i a
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the .“Twelfth An- .. nual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy,” for the year 1866-7, or address
,	ANGELI, Superioress.
Poire Dame Post Office, Indiana.