getee laae

ta th# interests nt th# Stetxtents.
“LABOR OMNIA VINCIT.”
Volume IV.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 11, 1871.
Number 11.
Our Chinese Correspondence.
Hotel of the Nine Moons, ( Pekin, China, etc. j
Editor Scholastic—Dear Sir: I am unable to send you by this mail, the account I promised to give you of politics in this country, because I hadn’t time to make out a translation of two speeches by two of their political leaders on the eve of the election for the national Scavengership. This is understood to be a very important office here, on account of its “ emoluments,” “ pickings,” “stealings,” etc.; and, therefore, as at home, all the truly loyal and patriotic citizens “go for it” To do the subject full justice, however, I am obliged to give you entire the speech of a leading man in each party, and as this requires time, I will wait until my next communication. In the meantime, and as a kind of a substitute I send you two poems entitled respectively, “The Modern Fop,” and “The Modern Belle.” The first was written at the instigation of tiie Empress who wished to give the Emperor a hit, because he splits his hair in the middle, and generally pays more attention to his personal appearance, than he does to the happiness of his subjects. When she read it, I thought she would split her sides laughing at it. “ It’s just gay!” she said, “and must be published in the imperial organ.” The Emperor was flaming mad when he read it, and threatened to lick me, unless I should write a set-off to the “ Fop,” and call it “ The Modern Belle.” Of course I had to comply under such inspiring influences. He had the “Belle” published with great flourishes in the imperial organ, and then to cap the climax, he mounted his throne and read it himself with the most provoking delight before a picked audience of his nobility whom he invited for that special purpose. Weren’t the Empress aud her ladies furious! “Mean,” “hateful,” “contemptible,” “brute,” and such like were the gentle epithets applied to myself. Some of the ladies even went so far as to come over where I was sitting, and pinch my arm-until I came nearly shouting out from the pain. “Youthink it’s funny?” said one “It’s ridiculous,” said another. “Throw something at him!” said all. I’m afraid I’m in a fix. I must close for the present.
Yours, etc.,
'	Larry Doolan.
THE MODERN FOP.
Of all the tilings this wond’ring world has seen, None can compare with modern fops, I ween. In human forms, they mingle with the throng, And with the human current roll along;
Their phantom forms with flimsy fashions change, And, Nature’s laws, a tailor’s hands derange!	,
Apparent men, with pilfer’d thoughts they talk, And boldly dare with real men to walk:
Pan’s self, capricious god, would faint to seo A flock so odd, or, frighten’d from them, flee: His sylvan fauns would all hut die from fear, And distant dwell, nor in their sight appear. Wide he of old, u hose sides with laughter shook Would, o’er such forms, with tears convulse a brook; And that moist eye, whose never ending wave In pity gushed, man’s sable stains to lave, Would close its flooding fount and flame with joy, To see such beings—neither man nor boy!
What nodeseripts! Not pen, nor word can tell From what chaotic primal source they fell.
What fear hath op’d that womb! what omens dread I Whence they have nameless, brainless, formless fled. Astounded reason seeks, but seeks in vain, To find a parent for this mongrel train.
All nature’s works we learn by special name ; But these, by long descriptions, how they came. Now, as we know, so will we one describe, Intending neither scorn, nor jest, nor jibe.
(We must describe the things we can’t define; For shadows, though not men, have still a line.) Think not, dear reader, we refer to you,— The absent, we mean, for him it's a clue.
If you take up the thread, and follow out, You shall not wander long in mazy doubt; But should you chance to know him, hence, speak not, Lest from the signs, yourself, perhaps, be eaught. Around his finger plays a slender cane, While lazy dullness dances in his brain;
And all so vast the mighty void within, His pate scarce bears a “ plug ” without a brim. A massive chain of counterfeited gold Adorns and decks his breeches’ ample fold, Which laps around, and laps, and laps again, A puny form, of nothing, proudly vain.
His parted locks are dress’d with daily care, And nature’s red is turned to raven hair. And geese are kill’d to grease the'gosling’s head, Whence all, alas! but feathers, long have fled. His tiny digits bend with monstrous rings, Presenting forms of strangely wondrous things: Long bushy curls conceal a vacant eye, Or dare, in learned tufts, the distant sky.
Green spex, of course, supply his lack of lore, As windows oft display the shopman’s store. On fancy's dream he builds a formal man, And art attempts what nature ne’er began ; His coat so tightly fits his shade-like frame, He’s call’d : “ What-is-it!” for want of a name; His feet, too, are so long, his boots so short, That these to fit must ever those distort.
But why detail ? He’s all a thing of art. So ends my song, dear fop, and we must part: I’m sure I can’t divine for what you’re made, If not to be a sign for ev’ry trade.
THE MODERN BELLE.
Good Fop, my story here begins to tell A word or two about a modern belle. Ye gods! a draught from high Parnassus’ spring To aid my lowly thoughts the way to sing: That spring so potent, sparkling, and so clear, How soon I’d there engulf this rising fear!
Great Phoebns, nymphs and fauns, ye warbling Nine I wish this task were yours instead of mine.
Muse of Aquinas! greatest of them all, Awake, and, fav’ring, hear my earnest call. Thy shade is mould’ring ’ncath forgotten days. But mcm’ry’s snn still adds its brightest rays. Triumphal Rome and gods have passed away; In might entomb’d, their epitaph—Decay! Yet Time’s relentless hand shall try in vain To cloud thy name with one effacing stain. Ah ! hadst thou lived to sing in modern days, What countless themes had claim’d thy scorching lays! Far diff*rent shields had met thy pointed darts;
Shields—thrice defiant of all warlike arts,— Before whose strength the Briton’s hosts recoil’d, And savage Paekenham was nobly foil'd.
Gods 1 how has Jackon’s glory passed away, When flirts and blushless belles can now display, In artificial busts, and limbs, and shape, The bales that saved him from the Saxon’s grape I ■
The works of God, from clay to cotton chang'd, Are now so far from Adam’s rib estrang’d That naught but mount-removing faith can trace Their dim connection with the primal race Frail shades, that sleep the day and dance the night. Or swoon at will, and faint at phantom fright;
Whose swelling orbs of hoop, unmeasur’d round, Usurp more space than Dido’s city-ground;
Weak, helpless things, who sink at thought of care, A camel’s load of wadding eas’ly bear!
While bursting hooks at ev’ry move explode, And gasping nature curses A La Mode. The modest skirt that should the ankles cov’r Is looped np high above the knees to hov’r; And painted cheeks no woman’s blush bestow On shoulders naked to the waist below !
Yet any object call by proper name,— Just mention leg,—the rouge is in a flame. To fashion now, my strains oppose the taste, To show you when both words and acts are chaste. Whene’er, at meals, you have the host to play. Be sure not stuffing, but concealment, say ; For pepper, pungent, and for wind, say air, And for a small potato, pomme-de-terre.
When called by greens, white cabbage is polite; And cock as rooster, ass as donkey’s right. For pollen, say prolific floral dust, And reddish rind for ev’ry metal rust.
Root is a word of origin so low, That branches only from a radix grow. Ventrical orb for belly is the word; A carving knife, you’ll call a mensal sword Adhering to the laws of etiquette, YonUBfeib a fork a dining bayonet.
UnpHBn'd shall you live, unpardon’d die, Unless the/emur hide the vulgar thigh. Thoracic duct, orpharynx for the throat; As for a muddy pool, a stagnant moat. The blust’ring bull is know by gentleman keou, And ganders grow to manly geese just now. Ebon, funereal, are words for dark;
Celestial songster for the groundling lark. The lowly lungs but breathe as lat’ral lobes, And pins are spears; their heads are brazen globes. In fine, your prude in words displays each grace, But acts, like Janus, with a twofold face.
I own this bat is not of Paris make, Bnt whom it fits may claim and gratis take; The trimmings, pattern, stuff, are all your own,— I charge no tariff for the labor done.	-
And now, to suit yourself, the colors blend,— My inspiration’s drawing to an end;
But yet, before I throw aside my task, I would some further information ask; Can you who gloat o’er Swinburne's beastly rhyme. Or joyful gaze on Gaunt’s repulsive crime,— Can you, I say, with Truth offended feel If she from murder’d Virtue draws the steel,— The leprous-pointed shaft that from your hand Shot eager, straight, and deep as Satan’s brand ’ In sinless Eden fell, when Death and he Made vassals of a race created free ?
Gustave Dore, the French artist, has his hands full. He was recently waited upon by an enthusiastic savant, equally learned in paleontology and music, who wished him to take a sketch of a specimen of icthyosauraus that had fallen into his hands. The artist refused to look at the pile of bones, until his attention was attracted by the passionate exclamation: “Do-re! my fossil-aii! see, do!” The artist was familiar with the gamut language and yielded.
2
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Misrepresentations.
Wilson’s Outlines of History, pp. 892, published by Ivison, Phinney & Co., New York; also publishers of Sander’s Headers, Robinson’s Arithmetics, &c., <fcc., Ac.
“ History for the last tbreo hundred years is a grand conspiracy against the truth.”—LLWit dt Jfatscre.
“Forgery—I blush for the honor of Protestantism while ! write- seems to Imre been peculiar to the reformed. I look in rain for one of these accursed outrages among the disciples of Popery."—ftev Jfr. Whitaker ,a Protestant minuter^, in bis idle ol Mary Stuart, Queeu of Mbits, p 65.
Du Plessis, the Pope of Calvinism in France, in the year 1600 published a book that was received as gospel truth by the reformers, but whose audacious falsehoods, forgeries and misrepresentations startled the Catholics. The praise bestowed on the work by Protestants so intoxicated the author, that in his rashness he openly challenged any Papist to point out a single false or erroneous quotation in the whole book. This was answered by’ the Bishop of Evreux, afterward Cardinal du Perron, who publicly’ announced that he was ready’ before any’ competent authority to show and prove that the book contained Five Hundred and Fifty falsehoods and forgeries. This declaration of the Bishop attracted the attention of all France, Catholic and Calvinist, and amoug the rest that of Henry the IV, then a Protestant, who had just succeeded by inheritance to the throne of France. The parties met before the king, by whom judges were appointed—one half Calvinists, one half Catholics. Fifty passages were to be examined in a day; but they’ had only proceeded as far as the ninth, when Du Plessis “got sick at the stomach and retired" for good from the contest. On hearing the arguments on both sides, the judges unanimously convicted him of falsehood; and two of the Calvinist judges, Freme-Canaye and Sainte du Mont, were roused from their delusion and became Catholics, as did Henry himself about three years afterwards. Sully —a Protestant—acknowledges that Du Plessis’ defence was weak and ended in his disgrace.—(Sully’s Memoirs, vol. ii, p. 354.)
“ From diligent inquiry it has been ascertained, that party spirit aud prejudice have thrdflHthe most undeserved obloquy upon the religioffsand practices of the Roman Catholics: in scarcely a single instance has a case concerning them been fairly stated, or the channels of history’ not grossly, not to say wickedly, corrupted.”—(Rev. Mr. Nightingale, a Protestant—“All Religious,” p. 65.) In another place Nightingale acknowledges that “no religion is treated so unjustly;” and the infidel Hume declares that “Protestants seem to have thought that no truth should be told of the Papists" ; and Bishop Jewell is reported to have urged during his life, to his followers, “to throw all the dirt you can at the Papists, some of it will stick.” It is true, that on his death-bed he wished “to publish to the world that what he had written, he had done against his own knowledge and conscience, only’ to comply’ with the state and the religion which it had set up.”—(Dr. Richard Smith’s “Prudential Balance of Religion,” p. 51) The bigoted Mr. Wox says the Catholic religion is “ ca-lumnlated cruellt;” and Dr. Parr states that “ IT IS INSULTED BARBAROUSLY.”
The learned Grotius, fearful that the forgeries and calumnies of the Protestant ministers would recoil on the Reformation, complains of their conduct, and received for reply, “ that they found it necessary for the public good of the Reformed religion.”—(Letters to Vossius.) And Vossius himself though a fierce and fanatical anti-Catholic, in the same correspondence, writes, that when he reproached the ministers of Amsterdam, they’ admitted the iniquity of the proceeding, “but,” added they, “ if we leave off such language, our people will soon, leave us."
We have here, without quoting a single Catholic authority’, the assertion of the Count de Maistre
fully borne out, that “ History for the last three hundred years is a grand conspiracy against truth;" but the many’ defeats of the conspirators, the frequent exposures of their lies aud calumnies, the detection and exposure of their forgeries, nor the fear of God—the reputed spread of enlightenment, and progress of the age, have prevented the disciples of the Jewells, the Du Plessises and the ministers of Amsterdam from thinking that “ no truth should be Md of Papists": that Catholicity should be “cruelly calumniated,” Catholics “barbarously insulted" that “dirt should continually be thrown, hoping some of it would stick," but in every case where Catholics or the Catholic Church is concerned, to state the case unfairly, and grossly’ and wickedly to forge and corrupt the channels of History.
If anyone has the curiosity to examine the works of one of the modern disciples of our day of the conspirators against truth, let him take up the work at the head of this article, and he will find that Marcius Wilson is determined that none of the forgeries, slanders, calumnies, misrepresentations, and gross mid wicked corruptions of historical channels, shall be allowed to die out; but that, as far as he can, they shall continue to carry’ out the original object of the conspiracy against truth and the Catholic Church. And the Messrs. Ivison, Phinney & Co. have brought out this repertory of libels, and gross historical corruptions, in the best style of art, with maps and plates to make it attractive, and sent their agents to all parts of the country for the purpose of introducing it into the schools of the country. And the.-c gentlemen tell us that the work has met with immense success, and has the approval of thousands of eminent professional educators aud school-men all over the Union. I will submit one extract from this national historical text book, for consideration, and ask auy’ intelligent man, Catholic or non-Catholic, what is sure to result from training up our youth in the principles of this misnamed history ?
“As the avarice and corruption of the court of Rome went hand in hand, the next step in iniquity was for the officers of the Roman chancery to decree the precise sum to be exacted for the pardon of every particular sin. A book was actually published by authority, containing all the specifications. A deacon guilty of murder could be absolved for twenty crowns. A bishop or abbot might assassinate for three hundred livres. Any ecclesiastic might violate his vows of chastity, under the most aggravating circumstances, for the third part of that sum. The doctrine of granting indulgences for crime, opened the way for a traffic still more profitable to the Holy’ See. Not only were indulgences, or pardons, granted for past offences, but if a man meditated any crime, he might, beforehand, purchase pardon, or exemption from the penalty. The gross immoralities and the wickedness which such a system introduced into society may be more easily conceived than described.”—Wilson's Outlines of Ancient and Jfodem History, pp. 789-90.
Protestant parents, do you, canyon, believe such infamous libels on our common humanity, and ought you tolerate for an instant to have the minds of your children darkened and contaminated with such monstrous falsehoods? And, O Catholic fathers and mothers, will you expose your sons and daughters to shame, sin and apostasy, by sending them to schools where they have to listen, aye, and take part in such blasphemy against truth, justice, and the religion you profess to hold dearer than life?
While this hook was in use in the public schools of Dubuque, one day whilst it was being read in class Willie’Sullivan, a bright intellectual boy, when it came his turn to read, became convulsed all over and so choked that he could not utter a word. When the teacher a^ked what was the matter, he could make no reply’ but burst out into a paroxysm of crying. After a few moments he got the use of his speech, and the first use he made of it was to cry out at the top of his voice, “IT’S A LIE I IT’S A LIE! IT’S A LIE!”
Punishment, threats, entreaties were all in vain, his only reply’ being “ It’s a Lie ! It’s a Lie !” After a while he got out of the school, and on his way home still continued crying; and to each inquiry of what was the matter, he replied, “It’s a lie! It’s a lie!” The late Right Rev. Bishop Smyth examined the matter, and the following Sunday publicly proclaimed from the altar that any’one who would send his children to school where that book was used should not be allowed to approach the holy Sacraments by him or any of his priests. The school directors, some of whom were Catholics, stated that they' were not aware of the character of the book, and instantly’ rejected it from the public schools. In these schools there were hundreds of Catholic children, but only one Willie Sullivan: the others would have continued daily imbibing its poison, and becoming every hour less and less Catholic. When will the proper action, by the proper authorities, be taken to rescue the youth of our beloved country—Catholic and non-Catholic—from the evil influences of this loathsome book ?	Columbus.
The Sponge.
Gentle—no, Dearly beloved reader—that’s the expression I like best—I’ve dabbled in a great many things; in the mud, for instance, when I was just a sproutin’; in other peoples affairs, when I grew bigger, and thought myself biggest, but did not, for all that, have sense enough to mind my own business. Further on in life, I dabbled in politics, law, medicine, and the arts and sciences generally. Finally, I devoted moself to the study of nature, within the wide, expansive range of which there is nothing—there can be nothing—so curious—so absorbing as the Sponge.
The general appearance and structure of this interesting object in nature is well known to every one who has enjoyed the luxury of a sponge bath, on a bright morning in July, after a night of restlessness and perspiration, so I will not pause to describe the ordinary sponge.
There is one species of sponge which, in all my extensive reading, I have never seen adequately described, unless, perhaps, in that excellent treaties on natural curiosities, in blank verse, by Quintus Horatius Flaccus. This is the sponge, I would make the subject of my enthusiastic periods at present.
The sponge of which I speak—and would that I had the genius of Shakespeare to do it justice—is a living, walking, talking, smiling, sponge. He, she, or it, as the case may be, is always very much interested in everything you do, and to show that deep interest, of course calls very often, smiles most bewitchingly; glances with an air of wisdom over your private papers; reads your letters—no doubt with a view to being able to suggest their contents when occasion offers, and thus save you the trouble of remembering or re-reading them; talks incessantly when you are most occupied, to prevent you from overworking yourself—and if there should be any cigars on your table, of course he helps himself (without troubling you to invite him) or, if there be no cigars; well, a pipe will do ; for, although he seldom smokes anything hut the best havanahs, still to oblige you, he will do violence to his taste, and run the risk of making himself sick by smoking a common pipe.
Now isn’t he a darling! Time is nothing to him, provided he can help you to spend yours as uselessly as possible! Why, I wouldn’t be without a sponge for all the world; it’s such a curiosity! Now I’ve been studying lately how this new species might be utilized. It may be that it could be used in taking baths, and I think seriously of trying some of these days, whether it will absorb water as easily as it absorbs Time.
Afflictus. -
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
In Memoriam.
Ben Barron is dead I This announcement, though not unexpected, has affected me deeply. A few weeks ago I was talking of him to appreciative friends, who knew that his death was not far off. It was touching to see how sadly they anticipated his premature departure. Then I was sad too on learning of his state of suffering; but my feelings were partly of admiration at the success which he had attained so early in life. Now, however, when he is gone, I realize better what he was, and what they lose to whom he was near and dear.
Dear Ben, twelve years ago we sat together at the same study-desk in good old Notre Dame. Seldom have we met since; but I have not forgotten the youth of rare parts who was my admired and beloved companion then, and whose promise in life has since been so great. “ The boy is father of the manand the greatness, goodness and intelligence, which made you so dear to all who knew you then, have marked your short but brilliant life. The Master chooses to take those whom He loves, and whom we also love,—the talented, the good, the young. May the sods of the valley rest lightly on your breast, and may your fair spirit rejoice with the angels of God.	E.

Funeral of Sen B. Barron.
The last public tribute of respect was paid yesterday to the remains of Bed B. Barron, in a manner that testified how truly he was esteemed in this community. Long before the hour appointed for the procession to move, the residence of the deceased was filled with numbers of our best citizens, assembled to view his mortal remains before they should be forever hiidden from their sight, At 10 o’clock A. M., the Lafayette Typographical Union, about thirty in number, marshalled by the President, Mr. C. S. Dresser, and headed by the Lafayette Silver Cornet Band, made its appearance, and the funeral cortege was formed. The procession, under the general marshalship of James Murdoch, Esq., moved to St. Mary’s church, of which Mr. Barron was a member, where High Mass was offered, and a funeral oration pronounced by the pastor, Father Hamilton1 in the presence of a very large audience. The eulogy upon our late associate was earnest, and found a response in the hearts of all who heard it. His shining virtues—and they were very many—were dwelt upon with appreciative fervor. How he suffered patiently for months and months, yearning to live, for the sake of his family and of the labor for society he devoutly wished to perform, yet ever ready to die if it were God’s will that he should, was eloquently depicted. The speaker had known him well, and he felt how great was his loss to the community. The voice of the people of this city to day, unanimously approving his virtues, was the voice of God, proclaiming the divine attributes of right.
At the close of the funeral sermon, the rite of final absolution was administered by the Rev. Dr. Hallinan. After appropriate music by the choir and the band, the relatives of the deceased took a last look at his remains, when the procession reformed and proceeded to the Catholic Cemeteiy, south of the city, where the coffin was deposited without special ceremony. The day was cold, and the ground covered with snow; but our dead friend and co-laborer felt no chilliness therefrom. His earthly senses had ceased their functions. That his spirit was walking in the warm sunshine and plucking the bright flowers of Paradise, we can but believe. It was hard, however, to leave the body of dear, generous, unselfish Ben. Barron in an icy grave on such a bleak day! What infidel hand would crush the faith out of our hearts that we shall see him again ?
As matters of fact, addititional to those already
stated in the city press, we give the following: Benjamin B. Baron was bom in Palmyra, Wayne county, New York, April 9,1841. He was the only son of Charles and Louissi Barron, who removed to Indiana soon after his birth. In I860, he was married to Msss Anna M. Jacoby, of this city. He leaves her a widow with three children, for whose comfortable support his prudence, in the days of his health, made provision. He was educated at Notre Dame, where his religious nature was strongly drawn out He, however, upon leaving his Alma -Vater, connected himself with the Episcopal Church. But about a year and a halfago he became a devoute Roman Catholic, and died very happily inthatfaith. Peacetothyashes,Ben.Barron; thou wert a true friend, a true husband, a tree father, a true citizen and a true Christian. May the influence of thy example grow forever in the wicked world.
In Memoriam.
Died at Burlington, Iowa, January 29,1871, Rev. James B. Doxelan, pastor of St. Paul’s Church.
He lias fought the good fight, he has finished his course, He has gone to receive the reward.
He has passed far away from the toils of the earth, He now sleeps the good sleep in the Lord.
Like the lark in the morn, has his soul taken flight To the clouds far away upon high;
But the lark will return to the earth ere the night, Her dark mantle has spread o’er the sky.
But the soul of this priest will in glory repose In the halls of its maker and God,
While his body now free from this life and its woes, Calmly rests, now, beneath the green sod.
Rest thee well, 01 thou soul of God’s pastor, rest well, Let no mark of earth^s sorrow remain,
For thy sheepfold with great joy hereafter shall tell Of thy life without fear, without stain.
They will tell of thy trials, thy labors, thy woes, Of thy patience ’mid calumnies base,
Of thy courage ’mid dangers, afflictions and snares When proud man would bring on thee disgrace.
And thon in thy new home, far np in the skies Of thy sheepfold will not careless be, Thou wilt aid them and list to their confident cries Calling often on God and on thee.
'	P.
The Couse of Scientific Lectures.
As annouced in the catalogue of the last June Commencement, Notre Dame is to be favored, during the present scholastic year, with a series of scientific lectures from the pen of Rev. J. C. Carrier, S.S.C. "We have already had the pleasure of list-ning to two of those lectures, and can only regret that the number promised may not be rendered many times greater than it is. The first one delivered was entitled, “The Tendency of Modern Science—Its Mode of Wafare, and how to combat it.” The second, which was, in reality the first of the regularly established course, had for its subject, “ The Record of the Rocks and the Record of the Bible not Conflicting but Proving each other.”
The first was entirely unexpected, inasmuch, as it was not contained in the regular series, and oc-casioncd considerable speculation as to the object of its being delivered. We think, however, that it was admirably choosen to occupy the place allotted it by the reverend lecturer. Before we can be influenced in any way by the doctrines of truth, the mind must be entirely cleansed from all preconceived notions of error. In the discussion of scientific matters, particularly, this should be the grand object to be first accomplished.
The press of the present day is teeming with every absurd and monstrous system that human ingenuity can invent; and all of them very modestly and consistently claiming to be the exponents of
true Science. Add to this the ridicule heaped on scientific pursuits by men unwilling or unable to understand their true importance; and we can easily perceive what a vast amount of error in this respect may be prevalent among the mass of genearl readers. For this reason, we say, this lecture was well adapted to be the first, and foundation, as it were, of the promised course. To overthrow those false and subtle theories, to purify the mind from any prejudices that might have been engendered by them and to place science in its proper position and its teachings in their true light, previous to discussing each branch separately, must have been felt as an absolute necessity by the reverend lecturer. This object he must certainly, have accomplished; and his auditors left the lecture-room, all of them delighted, and many of them impressed with new ideas concerning the true nature of Science.
The subject of the second lecture, interesting and instructive in itself, as regards the great principles of the eaath’s history, is rendered doubly important when we reflect on the part it has played in the religious and scientific world during the last half century.
When men first began to turn their thoughts to the investigation of geological history, skeptics and infidels seized with eagerness on the new science, imagining that it furnished them a weapon that might be used with irresistible force for the overthrow of Christianity. The Mosaic Record was most condusiedy (?) proved to be false, because Geology declared the earth to have existed for thousands of years before the epoch assigned by Moses for the creation of man. Matter was evidently eternal,- and man, after all, was but a “favored” species of monkey. To the deduction of such and many other equally preposperous conclusions was Geology first applied by atheistical minds. These doctrines, advocated with a pertinacity as commendable as their foundation was absurd, spread with the rapidity always characteristic of the dissemination of error; and, at the present day, render the object and teachings of Geology as much misunderstood as can be imagined. The reverend lecturer took Historical Geology andaBe first chapter of the Book of Genesis as con-tainingthe two records to be compared, and showed to the satisfaction of everyone present that in every particular they agreed with each other. He took up verse by verse of the inspired author, and, as he brought forward proof after proof establishing the truth of the proposition contained in the subject, we wondered how men could maintain, in the face of such overwhelming testimony, that Geology contradicted the declarations of Scripture.
The lecture was remarkable throughout for logical precision and originality of thought; and, from the long list of authorities brought forward to corroborate his statements, it was evident that year* of labor, both ecclesiastical and scientific, in the observation of nature, had made him thoroughly conversant with his subject The style was easy, elegant and appropriate, often becoming elevated in its earnestness, and again touching on the hn- , morons when the lecturer reviewed the ridiculous theories of modem system-makers. The only fault which we noticed in the style was the great length of the sentences, which, in some instances, rendered the meaning difficult to be comprehended. This was especially the case with the first lecture, and wascertainlysusceptibleofimprovement. Listening to a lecture is not like reading a book, inasmuch as in one you may reread and reflect, while in the other the meaning must be caught as the sentence is read.	'
It is unnecessary to add that we were much pleased with these first two Ic.-tures, and if the rest are of equal excellence, as we have every reason to suppose they are, we may look forward to their being delivered in expectation of enjoying a rich literary treat.	G. -
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
^otre ^ame Scholastic.
PUBLISHED AT NOTES DAME UNIVERSITY.
Ail communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
TERMS:
One year............................... $1 00
Copies of the publication can be obtained at the Students' Office.
The Scholastic for the Second Term, and for Vacation, 1871.
The first number of the Scholastic for the second term will appear on the 11th of February, and will be the eleventh number of the volume. Fifteen numbers will be printed during the second session and the following long vacation. ’ Our friends who have not yet subscribed would do well to commence with No. 11, as it will begin a new series, for we intend to have no continued articles running over from No. 10. No. 11 will prove of great interest to our friends, as it will contain the result of the January examination.
We will furnish the fifteen numbers of the Scholastic for 75 cents.
Semi-Annual Review of the Classes anti College Societies.
The exercises of the semi-annual examination were concluded Tuesday evening, 31st ult. It is only just to say, that the extra labor which these exercises entailed on both the professors and the students were amply compensated by the satisfaction which they afforded. We do not wish to intimate, however, that in every case the tercher felt proud of the pupil, nor that the pupil felt peS^lctly at ease when his proficiency was put to the test, on the contrary, we must confess that there were some exceptions, and that some few were found sadly deficient. The evident reason of their deficiency, was the want of application and earnest study during the session. The vast majority of the students, however, did honor to themselves, and responded to the most sanguine expectations. They proved that they had done their work faithfully, and that they had labored for themselves and not for others, ad occulum sercientcs. It would be our desire to chronicle the names of all those who have deserved to be well noted at the examination, but as space does not permit us to do so, we will confine ourselves to making a special mention of those who have particular]}’ distinguished themselves as well during the session, as at the examination, and who have deserved to be promoted to higher classes.
To make this report complete we will also mention the changes which have taken place in some classes, and give all the information necessary to form an idea of our present status.
CLASSICAL COURSE.
iforaL Philosophy—This class composed at present of six members is deserving of praise for its proficiency. Rev. Father Brown, S.S.C., professor.
First Latin—This class has completed in toto the reading of authors under Prof. J. A. Lyons. It will during the second session occupy itself with the study of Ancient Literature under the direction of Rev. Father Quinn, S.S.C. J. Zahm, T. Johnson, 3L Mahony, a special mention.
Second Latin—This class is excellent in translation. Latin Composition will be its principal study
during the second session. It is composed of studious young men. The best notes were awarded to T. Ireland, E. B. Gambee and J. Keely. J. A. Lyons, A. 31., professor.
Third. Latin—The best notes in this class were awarded to J. 31. Gearin, 31. Keely, 31. Carr, D. Egan, and D. Hogan. This class shows good progress. It will begin Horace’s odes, and practice composition. Prof. T. E. Howard, A. 31. professor.
Fourth Latin—The best noted in this class were J. C. Heine and C. Hutchings. It will continue under 3Ir. J. A. O'Connell, S.S.C., the translation of Sallust, and begin Cicero. The progress of the class is very satisfactory; we only wish that it had a larger attendance.
Fifth Latin—This class was called sixth Latin previous to the examination, by its steady progress it has deserved to be elevated to the the rank of fifth Latin. Its best members at the examination were T. O’Mahony, J. 3IcGinnity, D. Hudson, and N. 3Iitchell. This class is under Prof. IV. Ivers’ direction. It will study the Eclogues of Virgil and continue Latin composition, in which it is particularly good.
Sixth Latin—This class, formerly the seventh, has been raised to the rank of sixth Latin. Its progress has been very good during the past session It will read C;esar under Rev. John Lauth, S.S.C. The best notes at the examination were awarded to C. Dodge, and W. J. Clarke.
Setenth Latin—This class began last September, and has met with a fair sliare of success for the short time of its existence. It is under the direction of Prof. A. W. Arrington, A. B. The best noted members were J. A. Fox, W. Dum, F. 3Iur-phy, and J. Hogan.
Eighth Latin—This class began last October. It will be a good class no doubt, when it will have become more familiarized with Latin. Thus far it has done veiy satisfactorily under 3Ir. Tighe’s teaching.
Eighth Latin, 2nd div.—A new class just formed, with Prof. Lyons for teacher, and composed of fifteen good members.
As a whole the study of the Latin language shows a steady progress and a larger attendance. We earnestly recommend the study of Latin to those students whose College time is not limited to a few years. And when we speak of the Latin we do not wish to exclude the Greek, whose claims in the formation of the English tongue are not second even to those of the Latin. These two languages are nearly indispensible to the earnest student of the English, and a partial knowledge of them will not prove amiss. Let, therefore, all those who seek a good English education apply themselves also to the Greek and Latin tongues. We reccommend likewise to the Latin and Greek students, a greater zeal in the practice of Latin and Greek Composition.
Without meaning to detract from the great benefits arising from the translation of Authors, and from Version exercises, we call the special attention of the classes to Latin Composition, without the knowledge of which, no amount of translation avails in forming a Latin scholar.
First Greek—This class has finished the course of Authors, under 3Ir. J. A. O’Connell, S.S.C., and will devote its attention to the study of Ancient Literature under Rev. Father Quinn, S.S.C., during the second session. The best notes at the examination were awarded to J. Zahm, T. Johnson, J. 3IcHugh, and E. B. Gambee.
Second Greek—This class under Rev. Jacob Lauth, S.S.C., will study Demosthenes and Sophocles. It is composed of earnest students. The best notes were awarded to T. Ireland and 31. Keely.
Fourth Greek—The best notes were awarded to D. J. Hogan, D. Egan, and R. Staley. This class will study 3Iemorabilia, under Prof. 31. A. J. Baasen, A. 3L
Fifth Greek—T. O’3Iahony, J. C. Heine, D. F.
Hudson, and J. Shanahan, obtained excellent notes in this class. It will study analysis, under Prof. J. O’Reilly, A. B.
Sixth Greek—This class has commenced with the second session and is taught by 3Ir. J. Garrity, S.S.C.
The classes in 3'fathematics of the Classical Course were examined together with the same classes of the Scientific Course and will be noticed farther on.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
Logic Class—This class has gone through the course marked in the Catalogue and will study 3Iental Philosophy during the second session, under Rev. L. Chemin. 3Ir. J. Gearin, deserves special mention for proficiency.
English Literature—The standing of this class is excellent and worthy of commendation. The course of English Literature will continue under Prof T. E. Howard, A. 31. The members of the class who deserved the highest notes at the exam-inatiou were T. O’3Iahony, J. Heine, E. B. Gambee, D. Egan, J. Rourke, and T. Dillon.
Chemistry and Fat. Philosophy—This class will continue under Rev. T. Vagnier, S.S.C., J. Zahm deserved the best note at the examination.
Natural Sciences—The classes of the Natural Sciences, viz., Physiology, Zoology, Botany, Geology and 3Iincralogy, will continue the course under Rev. J. C. Carrier, S.S.C. The highest notes were deserved by R. 3IcCarthy, J. IVillson, J. 3IcCor-mack, J. Gearin, 31. 3Iahony, N. 3Iitchell, and T. Ireland.
Trigonometry—This class completed its course at the end of the session. J. A. Fox and N. 3Iitchell deserve special mention. A new class has commenced with Prof. T. E. Howard, A. 31.
First Geometry—This class discontinues, its members will study Trigonometry during the second session. 31. Spellacy and D. Harding^obtained the best notes at the examination.
Second Geometry—This class becomes the first and will continue under Prof. D. A. Clarke, B. S. The best notes were awarded toF. B. Shephard, T. Keely, F. Ireland and 31. 3Iahony.
A new Geometry class has commenced with 3Ir. J. A. O’Connell, S.S.C., as professor.
First Algebra—Titis class finished the course with the session under Prof. W. Ivers, A. 31. The best notes were received by T. O’3Iahony, J. Heine, F. Shephard, J. A. Fox and J. Wilson,
Second Algebra—This class now becomes the first and will continue using Robinson’s University Algebra under Prof. D. A. Clarke. The best noted at the examination were J. 3IcConnack, G. Darr, and 31. Spellacy.
A new Algebra class has commenced with the session, A. W. Arrington, A. B., professor.
ENGLISH COURSE—SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
First Rhetoric—This class has a large attendance and made good progress during the session under Prof. P. Foote, L. 31. The best notes were awarded to F. J. 3Iurphy, J. 3IcCormack, J. 3IcGinnity, J. 3IcHugh and C. Dodge.
Second Rhetoric—This class has just commenced with 3Ir. F. C. Bigelow, S.S.C., as professor.
First Grammar—A large class under Prof J. A. Lyons’ direction. During the first session many promotions were made from this class to that of Rhetoric, and were noticed at that time in the Scholastic. At the examination the following members were promoted to Rhetoric: A. Riopelle, W. Dum, C. Ortmayer, W. Crenshaw, P. Scott, R. Lange, T. Foley, C. 3Iorgan, 31. 3Ioriarty„ J. 31c-Carthy, J. 3IcGahn, J. Rumley, C. Berdel, W. Clarke, G. Darr, H. Huiburt, J. Ward.
Second Grammar—In this class, taught by Bro. Ephrem, R. Finley, T. Dundon, E. Sweeney, E. Gillen, were promoted to Rhetoric. C. Wheeler was allowed to discontinue. D. Harding, E. Mul-larky, J. Curran, 31. Daly, J. 3IcFarland, P. Coakley, P. Fcderspiel, A. Goodell were promoted to first Grammar.

JTOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Third Grammar.—In this class—taught by Prof. Arrington—J. Heintz, C. Hundley, L. Batson, Geo. Riopelle, J. Murnaue, A. Barth, J. Hogan, 0. Vinson, N. P. Wooster, L. Rupert, J. Buehler, A. Brown, L. Batson, were promoted to 2d Grammar.
Fourth. Grammar.—The members of this class— taught by Br. Alban, S. S. 0.—who deserred the highest notes at the examination, were J. McDermott and J. JIcGinniss.
A new Grammar class has commenced with the session, under the direction of Br. Gabriel, S. S. C.
First Arithmetic.—In this excellent class—taught by Prof W. Ivers, A. M.—the following members ■were allowed to discontinue: P. J. O’Connell, S. Ashton, W. Dum, J. McGuire, T. Dillon, C. Morgan, C. Swenk,-R. Lange, 0. Bell, T. Foley, L. Rupert, W. Crenshaw, R. Staley, A. P. Rogers, J. Antoine, R. Finley, Geo. Goodel, J. A. Loranger.
A first class of Arithmetic has begun with the session, under Prof. D. A. Clarke, for the special benefit of the scientific students.
Second Arithmetic.—In this class, taught by Br. Ephrem, S. S. C., the following members deserved promotion to the first class: P. Finnegan, J. Clarke, T. Dundon, C. Hundley, W. Atkins, J. Rourke, P. Coakley, J. Miller, E. Dunn, J. McFarland, J. Culver.
Third Arithmetic—This class taught by Mr. A. Arrington, B. S., were promoted to second class, N. P. Wooster, J. Zimmer, J. Hogan, E. Sweeny, T. Hurley, J. Riopelle.
Fourth Class—Some members of this class taught by Bro. Emmanuel, S.SC. were promoted as follows: Langan, R. Tarkington to first class, M. Martin, R. Wallace, W. Layfield to third class.
Fifth Class—This class remains unchanged and is united to the fourth class, having Bro. James, ' S.S.C. for teacher. .
In the senior Penmanship classes, taught by Prof. M. T. Corby, A. M., the best compositions were presented by J. L. McGahan, T. Dillon, E. Gillen, T. Dundon, J. E. Hogan, C. Swenk, T. Murphy, W. Crenshaw, A. Riopelle, J. Zimmer, P. J. O’Connell, Geo. Riopelle, E. Sweeny.
In the junior Penmanship class, taught by the same Professor, the best specimens were those of W. Wilstach, H. Jones, H. Waldhauser, J. Antoine, D.McGinniss, Jos. Goesse, Jos, Heinz, Geo. Lyons, C. Vinson, L. Hilsendegen, H. Breckweg, L. Hib-ben, V. Hackmann, P. Reilly, B. Luhn, J. McGuire, T. Foley, and M. Moriarty.
Fint Reading—W. Wallace, 0. Connerton, R. Costello, F. Murphy, R. Tarkington, were allowed to discontinue. The class remains otherwise unchanged, with Prof. D. Clarke for teacher.
First Orthography—R. Costello, R. Tarkington, C. M. Johnson were allowed to discontinue. The same class is again under the direction of Mr. James O’Reilly, A. B. A special class of Orthography for those who attend the evening book-hceping class commenced with Prof. A. J. Lyons for teacher.
Geography—This class has done well'under Prof. D. Clarke’s teaching. Mitchell’s Geography has been introduced instead of Guyot’s
ENGLISH COURSE—JR. DEP’T.
Second Grammar—This class has been promoted to the rank of first class under Bro. Benjamin’s, S.S.C direction, the best notes at the examination were those of G. Lyons, J. Wuest, L. Roth, A. Hoerber, J. Goodhue, F. Obert, B. Luhn, W. Gross, J. Ireland, H. Potter, J. Goesse.
Third Grammar—This class taught by Bro. Ephren, S.SC. becomes second class. The best notes were awarded to H. Bourdon, J. Quill, J. Langanderffcr, A. Dickerhoff, C. Lenhart L. Hibben.
Fourth Grammar—Taught by Bro. Albert, S.SC. becomes third class. The best notes were awarded to H. Waldhauser, F. Devoto, H. Krueger, P. O’Brien, J. Dunn, W. Emmonds, E. Davis, M. Cummings, T. L. Ely, H. Ely.
Fifth Grammar—Fourth class under Bro. James’
direction. E. Gault, E. Gribbling, E, Marshall, M. Lum, J. Fawcett, J. Pumphrey deserved the best notes. A new class, a division of the above has been formed and is taught by Bro. Ephrem.
First Arithmetic—This class taught by Prof. W. Ivers, A. M. will continue without change. C. Dodge, H. Bourdon deserved 100 per cent, next to these. V. Hackmann, J. Rumley, J. Wuest, F. Arantz, C. Ortmayer, C. Berdel obtained the best notes.
Second Arithmetic—Will continue without change with Bro. Benjamin for teacher. The best in the class are E. Newton, C. Vinson, C. Sollit, E. Sheehan, N. Woltring, G. Hoflman, W. Wilstach, L. Roth.
First Reading—First Division—This class composed oft he best readers of the J r. Dep’t. will devote its time to Declamation exercises under Prof. J. A. Lyons. The best notes were given to L. Hibben, A. J. Dickerhoff, G. Hoffman, E. Lyons, V. Armstrong, W. Meyer, J. Goodhue, C. Lenhart, H. Ely, T. Ely, L. Roth.
First Retding—Second Division—This class is but little inferior to the first division, and is under Bro. Benjamin’s charge. Among its best readers are: W. Gross, G. Lyons, E. Davis, E. Sheehan, P. Reilly, H. Potter, M. Winegar, J. Dunne, J. Fawcette, J. Graham. Declamation will be a part of the exercises of this class during the session.
Second Reading—Among the best notes given at the examination to the members of this class taught by Bro. Albert were tho=e of E. Marshall, J. O’Hara, Weldon, M. McCormack, M. Heely, R. Kelly, C. M. Sollit, V. McKinnon.
Third Class—This class taught by Bro. James numbers among its best members J. Repetto, J. McCormack, L. Forbes, J. Pumphrey.
First Orthography—Taught by Bro. Benjamin. J. Heintz, J. Langandeffer, A. Dickerhoff, C. Morgan, A. Ashton, H. Kinkead, W. Fletcher, F. Arrantz, and G. Lyons obtained the highest notes.
First Orthography—Second Division—Taught by Bro. Albert J. Quill, J. J. Goodhue, W. Gross, W. Meyer, C. Hoffman, L. Hibben obtained the best notes.
Second Orthography—Taught by Bro. Emmanuel. The best notes were awarded to F. Devoto, J. Dunn, W. Fitzgerald, J. Graham, M, Weldon, J. O’Hara, J. McManus, JI. Weldon.
Third Orthography—Taught by Bro. Celestine. P. O’Brien, F. Tolerton were promoted to second class. J. McGinniss, E. Marshall, and J. Fawcett deserved the best notes.
First Geography—The best numbers of this class taught by Bro. Benjamin are: C. Vinson, E. Sollit, A. Sharai, T. Smith, L. McOsker, J. Goodhue, A. Hoerber.
Christian Doctrine—The best compositions in Christian Doctrine were those of H. Bourdon, D. Hogan, P. O’Bryan, H. Jones, J. Antoine, J. Ward, F. Obert, J. Heinz, L. Staley, W. Meyer, M. Mahony.
LANGUAGES.
First French—J. Gearin deserved a special mention for his remarkable progress.
Second French—T. O’Mahony, J. Loranger, and J. Antoine showed a commendable proficiency.
Third Frcuch—N. Myers and E. Haydel, deserved the best notes. Rev. L. Chemin teaches the above French classes.
A new French clas has commenced with the second session.
GERMAN.
In the seven German classes the following students obtained the best notes :
First German (S’r. Dep’t)—Taught by Rev. J. Lauth, S.S.C. D. Egan, T. Dillon, J. McHugh, C. Duffy.
Second German. (S’r. Dep’t)—Taught by Rev. P. Lauth, S.S.C. J. Walsh, C. Hutchings, C. Ortmayer, J. Shanahap, J. Ward.
Third German (S’r. Dep’t.)—Taught by Rev.
Jacob Lauth, S.S.C. A. Brown, J. McCormack N. Wooster, J. Murnaue.	.
First German (J’r. Dep’t)—Taught by Rev. P_ Lauth, S.S.C. J. Wuest, J. McGuire, J. Ireland.
Second German (J’r. Dep’t)—Taught by Prof. M. A. J. Baasen, A. M. C. Peterson, H. Ackoff^ F. Obert, H. Krueger.
Third German (Ft. Dep’t)—Taught by the same professor. C. Dodge, R. Lange, L. Roth, J. Langandeffer.
Fourth German (J’r. Dep’t)—Taught by the same professor. H. Jones, H. Waldhauser,. E. Gribbling, F. Joseph, F. McDonnald.
Two new German classes have commenced this session.
arts.	.
Drawing—Taught by Prof C. A. B. Von Weller. N. Mitchell excels in figure drawing; J. McGaha inlandscape; C. Ortmayer in academic figures; C. Connorton in machine drafts; J. Rumley in flowers. A new class has commenced with Bro. Albert as teacher.
Vocal Music—The Nocal class under Prof M. T. Corby numbers among its best singers in the Senior department, A. and G. Riopelle, N. Mitchell, W. Roberts, A. Brown. In the Junior department V. Hackmann, R. Staley, D. Egan, J. Campbell,L. Hayes, R. Hutchings, E’ Davis, and F. Obert. In the Minim department, A. Foster, C. Tarble, and L. Montedonico.
Instrumental Music—This branch of art so extensively cultivated here will not be examined before June,when all the members afe expected to appear before a musical committee and display their proficiency. There are, at present, one hundred and twenty students studying music.
Bro. Basil, S.S.C., is pirector of the musical department and is assisted by Mr. E. Lily, leader of the band, Bro. Leopold teacher of the Violin and-Prof. M. T. Corby teacher of the Piano and of Vocal music, Bro. Placidus teacher of the Violin,, and other assistant teachers when required.
Certificates.
Several times during the year certificates of good conduet.and improvement in class are awarded to-the students whose conduct has been blameless, and whose progress in their studies has been remarkable. The certificates given at the end of the session just closed, to the students whose names follow, may be regarded as a fair verdict, rendered by the Faculty, either upon the conduct or the progress of the recipient. Quite a number of students have deserved certificates in each of their classes: others have not been so fortunate. A few have failed to attain the mark, and are thus left in oblivion. Some arrived too late to compete, and these form the majority of those whose names were omitted in the following lists. As space is wanting, we only publish the names of the students ’ who have received three or more certificates:
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. Brown 3, R. Crenshaw 6, W. Crenshaw 6, J. Curran 5, W. Clark 5, P. Coakly 6, C. Connorton 5, G. Darr G, T. Dillon 4, T. Dundon 6, C. Dufiy 3, E. Dunn 3, M. Daly 4, J. McFarland 4, J. Fox 4, P. Federspiel 3, P. Finigan 4, R. Finley 5, E. Gillen 4, J. Gearin 4, D. Hudson 6, C. Harding 4, T. Hurley 6, J. Heine 4, T. Ireland 7, J. Hogan 5, K Gambee o, G. Goodell '4, J. McGinnity 4, J. McCormack, 3, J. Martin, 5, F. Logan 3, E. Mullarky 7, M. Kelley 8, R. McCarty 5, J. McGlynn 3, F. Murphy 6, J. McGahan 7, J. Murnane 4, N. Mitchell 9, J. Mees 3, T. Mahony 6, J. McCarthy 4, J. O'Connell 5, A. Riopelle 3, G. Riopelle 4, W. Roberts 6, L. Rupert 4, A. Rosenblatt 3, E. Sweeney 4, W. Smith 4, J. Shanahann 4, C. Wheeler 5, C Swenk 4, J. Wilson 3, J. Walsh 3, N. Wooster 6, J. Zahm 3, J. Zimmer 6, F. Egan 3.	‘
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Campbell a, C. Curtis 4, D. Egan 4, S. Egan 3.
6
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
J. Crummey 3, T. Foley 8, J. Ely 5, H. Ely 5, J. Antoine 7, H. Ackhoff 4, V. Armstrong 4, S. Ashton 6, T. Arantz 7, C. Berdel 5, J. Bracken 8, H. Bourdon 5, H. Breckwig 3, C. Dodge 6, F. Devoto 5, J. Drake 4, S. Dum 6, J. Dum 4, A Dickerhoff 5, W. Dunn 3, E. Davis 4, J. Forbes 4, S. Hoover 6, C. Sollitt 5, R. Staley 6, E. Sheehan 8, J. Spillard 4, F. Obert 4, J. O’Hara 3, P. O’Brien 3, C. Ortmayer 10, J. Quill 7, J. Pumphrey 6, C. Peterson 3, W. Dum 3, F. Livingston 4, H. Potter 8, E. Newton 4, R- Lange 5, R Kelly 4, H. Kinkead 4, W. Wilstach 3, J. Ward 8, H. Woltring 5, H. Walthauser 4, B. Vogt 3, C. Vinson 5, J. McGinnis 4, C. Morgan 8, L. McOskar 5, P. 8. McDonald 5, M. McCormack 3, F. McDonald o, D. McGinnis 7, M. Mahony 4, M. Moriarty 9, J. McGuire 7, W. Mayers 6, V. McKinnon 3, T. Whitney 3, J. Wuest 6, B. Roberts 3, A Ransom 3, P. Reilly 4, M. Weldon G, J. Rum-ley 8, M. Winegar 3, L. Roth 5, J. Repetto 5, J. Ruddiman 3, C. Lenhart 6, E. Lyons 3, G. Lyons 6, L. Hibben 6, H. Jones 8, J. Ireland 7, J. Gocsse 6, E. Kaiser 3, G. Hoffman 5, H. Kreuger 3, R. Hutchings 4, J. J. Hintz 5, T. Smith 6, E. Shea 3, A Scbarai 4, C. McClure 4, P. Scott 9, T. Smith 4, W. Hughes 3, E. Gregg 3, E. Gribbling 4, W. Gross 4, J. Taylor 5, F. Tolerton 6, A Hoerber 6, M. Healy 4, EL Hunt 4, M. Freaney 3, E. Howland 3, V- Hackmann 6, E. Gault 3, E. Haydel 3, J. McHugh 6, D. Hogan 3, C. Jevne 5,	’
Ail Around the University.
We have seen nothing of that new labratory.
Washington’s birthday will come on Ash-Wednesday this year.
The soiree held in the parlor on Sunday evening was a decided success.
A very interesting debate took place in the St. Ed’s on Tuesday evening the 17th ult
Certificates of good conduct and improvement in class were distributed to the Students Sunday evening.
The Study-halls are rapidly filling up with new volunteers equipped for active service for a period of five months.	''
The election of officers of the literary and dramatic associations for the second season took place last Wednesday.
The Elocution class practice Sunday evenings after supper, and from all reports seem to be making rapid improvement.
We regret very much to chronicle the departure of M. J. A Loranger, an efficient member of the Thespian Society and leader of the orchestra.
The Thespians intend to contribute to the enjoyment of the vicinity by producing a play entitled “Rory O’Moore,” on Tuesday evening the 21st inst
/ We are happy to record the return ofMr. James Edwards, of Toledo, an old and favorite student of this University. Mr. Edwards has since entered the Novitiate.
A class of Ancient Literature will be taught on Mondays and Thursdays, by Rev. J. Quinn. This class is comprised of the members of the first Latin and Greek classes.
The weather has been quite favorable for several days past, just cold enough to remind us that it is the winter season, in the meantime the sun shining as a token of the success of the recent examinations
A flying machine or ice boat has been put upon the lakes through Mr. J. Mees exertions. The machine will no doubt be a success, and under a fair wind will sail gracefully over the frozen surface.
Don’t forget to put on steam in class rooms Nos. 6 and 10, as the members of the literary associations deem it a great pleasure to employ their spare time in perusing the volumes afforded by their respective libraries. They must have steam.
The Dancing class taught by Prof. Ivers—closes with the session. This class is very large, and the Professor says it is decidedly the best class he ever taught—and in return for their industry and gentlemanly behavior they were allowed the privilege of using the exhibition hall for their dancing room.
On Sunday last as the Students were going in ranks to the Church, quite a serious accident befell one of the Seniors—Geo. H. Luddington. In going out of the Study hall he made a misstep which recipitated him on the brick pavement below. It would be ornamental as wTell as useful to erect a nice balustrade on each flight of steps.
Mtrabile Dictu.—We hear from reliable sources that there has not been one single case of examination fever among the Seniors. This is very commendable and at the same time remarkable, saying considerable in their favor—as there always have been some who were so severely indisposed that they were compelled to seek this Refugium Pecca-torurn during the examinations.
The lamp chimneys of the Seniors study-hall have been on a “ bust ” lately—hardly a day has elapsed but that some chimney would “ bust ” over the head of a poor individual who was so unfortunate as to be seated in proximity to said chimney, thereby scaring him out of his wits so that he could not tell whetherthe woild was coming to an end or whether it was his class called up for examination.
A platform has been erected in the south end of the play-room for the benefit of the Senior orchestra. The orchestra whose members are as follows: J. A Loranger, M. S. Atkins, J. Watts, R. Crenshaw, G. Riopelle, J. Ireland, J. Walsh and T. Huriy, kindly fulfilled their agreement by contributing some lively music to the members of the dancing class last Wednesday afternoon. Their programme consisted of quadrilles, waltzes, schot-tisches, etc. The afternoon passed by veiy rapidly and pleasantly, and we would say that all who availed themselves of this opportunity feel grateful to the gentlemen whose names we have mentioned.
The examination in the Commercial Course was unusually satisfactory. It occupied two days, during which time book-keeping and the collateral branches were examined by the board selected for that purpose. The Arithmetic continued three hours and the Students evinced a degree of proficiency not equalled in preceding years. The Grammar seems to have had more attention than that other branch, known to Students as Orthography. Geography also claimed its proper rank in the Commercial Course. The penmanship was in general very fair. Owing to the thoroughness of the examination and the strict requirement of the course, many of the aspirants were disappointed. The decision of the Commercial Board was made known on Thursday following the examination. The classes were again formed on Friday the 3d, and now number in all 110 Students.
A Poughkeepsian wrote Horace Greeley asking how he, a life-long temperance advocate, could indorse a certain article of intoxicating liquors as perfectly pure, etc. “H. G.” replied in vigorous English, as follows: “As President of the American Institute, I sign all the premiums awarded by the appropriate committees or examining boards. If there be any fool foolish enough to suppose that I recommend the articles so awarded a premium, I advise him to drink Pease’s liquors, and so quit speedily this state of being, for which he is too innocent entirely,”
Thirteenth Semi-Annual Exercises of the St. Cecilia Shilomathean Association.
PROGRAMME. pabt fibst. Grand Entrance March.........N. D. U. Brass Band
Music...............................Orchestra
Sona (Duet)...........V. Hackmann, C. Hutchings
Address..............................R. Staley
Song (Fishes in the Sea)..........V.	Hackmann
Eulogy on Laughing...................R. Staley
Music........................N. D. U. Brass Band
Recitation (Latin) The last Flower in Brother
Peter’s Garden..................M. Mahony
Solo..................................R. Staley
Speech (Tremendous Battle)...........C. Berdel
Recitation (Man was made to mourn)...J. F. Cummey An attempt at delivering a Greek selection. J. McHugh Speech (Don’t put on too much Style).J. McGuire Solo (Fashion on the brain)...................V.	Hackmann
Mariner’s Drcam......................C. Dodge
Prologue.............................R. Staley
Music................................Orchestra
PABT SECOND.
The Miser—A Comedy in Three Acts.
Translated and Adapted from the French of Holiere.
DRAMATIS PERSONA!.
Harpagon—Father to Cieonte and Polyander.C. Berdel Cieonte.............................J. McHugh
Polyander..........................V.	Hackmann
Anselm—A rich Notary...................J.	Ward
Orontes—Citizen, Neighbor to Harpagon...J. McGuire Lapierre—Stewart to Harpagon..........C. Dodge
Lafleche—Valet to Cieonte...........C. Huchings
Maitre Jacques—Cook and Coachman to Harp-
agon............................S. Ashton '
A Commissary...........................L.	Roth
Lamerluche 1	T. Foley
Brindavoine >•.....................C.	Ortmayer
Antoine )	J. Antoine
Epilogue..............................J. McHugh
Closing Remarks............................... Music.........................................Orchestra
March for Retiring...........N.	D. U. Brass Band
During the Comedy, V. Hackmann will sing several of his very choice songs.
On the evening of the 7th inst., Washington Hall was well filled by an appreciative audience. The occasion which brought them together is explained by the foregoing programme. One remarkable feature in the exercises, was the prompt and ready alacrity with which each part of the performance succeeded the other. The continuity of the entire exercises was so well kept up throughout the evening, and every part of what was promised so faithfully carried out, that no one, except a professional growler, could find fault with the entertainment on that score. The discipline and training of the students was simply all that could be desired. Some may think—as a matter of taste—that the preliminary exercises might have been briefer; and yet, each of the speeches and addresses was so pleasing in itself, that it would be difficult to say which one of them should be dispensed with, without leaving a gap in the whole. If called upon to decide which ought to be left out, we confess we could not determine. The St. Cecilians always do well, whatever they undertake to do. They labor to please, and they certainly succeed in pleasing those whom they entertain with their literary exercises. Considering their youth, and the little time they had to prepare for the present occasion, their success would have done credit to old and practised hands. The conception of the Miser’s character, and its rendering by C. Berdel was as nearly perfect as such a thing can be. He is a decided favorite on the stage, and he deserves it well.
Not being much of a “singster” we defer our own judgment on that point, to the opinions of others; and all we heard speak of the music, pronounced it very good. The “very choice songs”
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of V. Hackmann were in great demand during the evening; and he, with his cheerful and usual good nature, contributed his full share to the pleasure of the audience. His part in the play was also well sustained. C. Hutchings has shown two things on this occasion: the first is that he has made very remarkable improvement in his reading, enunciation and acting; and iu the second place that he is a talented boy. We regret that L. Roth did not have a wider field in which to display his inimitable humor. He is brimful of that generous humor which can only find a place in a good heart.
We missed Prof. M. T. Corbz at the piano, but his pupils, Staley and Hackmann, did him credit in their accompaniments to the singers. As the whole belonged to the St. Cecilians, and as these two are also members of that excellent Society, it was very proper that the Society should have an opportunity of doing all that was to be done, when they possessed, within themselves, the ability to carry out their programme. All this they did well, and satisfactorily. We are not of those who like to growl at every little defect iu the exhibitions of students. For the good they achieve in public, let them be praised, not censured, in public, and if some slight faults occur, we believe in leaving their correction to time and to kindly private instruction. Every name you see in the programme, gentle reader, deserves praise, which we would willingly give if we had time. This we would give because it was merited, and because it is a pleasure to us to add our share of encouragement to all those noble, generous young souls who are laboring so earnestly to educate their minds and hearts. Holding this view of the matter, and having been greatly pleased with the entertainment of the St. Cecilians, we give them our thanks, and hope they will afford us a similar pleasure before long. Judging from the hearty laughter of the venerable Father General, and the other reverend gentlemen present, we feel justified in saying that no other exhibition in Washington Hall has given higher satisfaction. We should like to see some of the addresses published in the Scholastic. If M. Mahony has got the “ Last Flower in Brother Peter’s Garden," he ought to give it to the public; for we have looked in vain there for a long time, for either a first or a last flower. The “Mariner’s Dream,” by C. Dodge, was excellently rendered. R. Staley’s address, “The times mutantur and nos, are changed in Ulis," together with his “ Eulogy on Laughing,” caused those who heard to “laugh enough for one evening.” Those who sported mustaches didn’t feel exactly comfortable, we thought, while J. McGuire had the boards to himself and his freund Hans floundering among broken eggs. J. F. Crum-mey is a smart boy, and knows how to take advantage of politics in the sale of his machines. The “ Greek Selection,” ending in “ Iscr rolling rapidly,” gave J. McHugh a thundering encore and brought him out again.
At the close of the proceedings, the Rev. Presi-Corby, S.S.C., in the name of the Faculty and of the others present, complimented the society on the skill and talent displayed, and praised the success of their speeches, addresses and play, with that encouraging and generous indulgence so characteristic of his life and labors among students at all times, and on every occasion.
Aliquis.
The Musical Soiree.
Last Sunday evening, Jan. 29tb, the large parlor of the University was crowded by an audience composed of the little Minims, Juniors and some fortunate Seniors, and a few invited personages, to listen to one of the finest musical entertainment that has been given for a very long time.' The evening selected was very favorable; the examination had been going on with great strictness for
several days previous, and the Students required relaxation to keep their minds in proper order to commence the new session. The programme was very creditably carried out.
The quartette by the University orchestra opened the evening’s entertainment: then followed a “quadrille” from the Junior orchestra, and a “schottische” by the Senior orchestra. The quartette by the University orchestra was very beautiful, but in the other orchestra the Juniors surpassed the Seniors both in time and execution. The two orchestras have been organized only a short time, nevertheless they play well.
The chorus by the Junior Vocal class was very good; the time was well marked.
The chorus by the Senior Vocal class was also very pleasing. We noticed in this chorus many familiar faces, and expected something good of them, and we were not disappointed.
Mr. Arthur Riopelle’s solo, “Too Late, Too Late, Ye Cannot Enter Now,” was given with very fine effect. Mr. Riopelle possesses a good voice, and his modulation was very pleasing.
The instrumental selections by S. Dum, J. Buehler and C. Ortmayer were good. Master Dum plays well, but he is too fast, paying no attention to the spirit of the piece, and hurrying through it as a school-boy does through his lesson. Master Buehler has a good touch, but requires practice and energy.
Master Ortmayer performed very well. The solo by Master R. Staley was excellent. His voice was up to its usual standard. Master V. Hackmann next followed. He surprised us by his many comic songs. He was repeatedly encored, and was always willing to please the audience. The duetto by A. and G. Riopelle was with one exception the best of the evening.
The chorus by the entire vocal class then concluded the vocal part of the programme. It was received with great applause. “ Gipsy Polka ” by the Junior orchestra and “Gallop” by the Senior orchestra concluded the entertainment.
Very Rev. Father Corby, S.S.C. then addressed the Students, thanking them for the pleasant evening’s entertainment they had given. He praised them for the progress they had manifested, and urged them to make greater progress than before. He spoke of the pleasure music afforded, and concluded that he hoped they would soon giveanother entertainment. Among the many visitors present we noticed Veiy Rev. Father General, S.S.C., who always takes great interest in music. Father Lemonnier, Vice-President; Prof. P. J. Foote, A. M. and wife; Prof. T. E. Howard, A. M. and wife; Prof. W. J. Ivers, A.M., and wife; Prof. J. A. Lyons and many others of the Faculty. Prof. M. T. Corby, A. M., and Bro. Leopold deserve all credit for the success of the entertainment.
Z.Z.Z.
Tha Tiano-Forts.
At the beginning of the second session there are generally a number of students who take up the study of music on some instrument. Very often the choir of instruments is quite a puzzle; they consult their friends who are as divided in their opinion as they themselves. They finally determine on one instrument, and as soon as they find it difficult and irksome, they wish to change for another. In this way they lose their time and learn nothing; besides giving a great deal of trouble to the teacher, who has the drudgery of teaching the first rudiments, without hope of success. If the student has the choice of the instrument, let him consider well before hand how much time he wishes to give to the study of music; also what amount of talent he possesses, a good ear, patience and perseverance; and let him not be carried away by the present rage for orchestras, quartello, etc. For the study of the violin, the above qualifications are
indispensable, and if the desire of the pupil rises no higher than to be able to fiddle a few jigs, reels, and such trash, we would inform him that those times are nearly gone by, and a more noble taste for music has taken its place. Bat we may speak' of the violin more at length in some future number. The instrument which is above all others to be preferred, except by the poorest classes, and which enables almost every one, with some diligent practice, to add to his own enjoyment and that of others; which is also free from the danger of leading to dissipation by going to serenade bands, negro minstrels, etc., isthepiano-forte. This isso well understood by the students at Notre Dame, that we have always a majority over all other instruments together, and some are only prevented by the foolish prejudice that it is only an instrument for ladies; or they measure the difficulties of the size of the instruments. The following is an extract from Moore's Encyclopedia :
“ The piano-forte, above all other instruments,"is best calculated to form a musician; it is the epitome of a orchestra—an abridgment—a multum inparco, which can unable the performer not only to conceive, but express all possible harmonious combinations by himself, independent of the aid of others; the degree of his success, of course, being in proportion to his capabilities of developing the almost inexhaustible powers of the instrument Even if he be not able to render them adequate vindication, he can arrive at a better notion of harmony or counterpoint by the help of ths piano-forte, and in less time, too, than is possible through the means of any single-voiced instrument The piano-forte has been the means of developing the sublimest ideas of the composer, and the delicacy of its touch has enabled him to give the lightest shades as well as the boldest strokes of musical expression. It is, of all instruments, pre-eminently the best for the accompaniment of the voice; and no performer, however skilful, can so well support the singer as he who is able to rent his feelings in the power of song. If the piano-forte can not show itself to advantage amidst a crowd of instruments, it plays its part well in private. On what instrument can we find, the score of a composition in all its meanca, its delicate shades of meaning (in construction as well as expression), so well interpreted together, as on the piano-forte, when it is under the magical fingers of a Henselt or a Chogin, or is awakened into almost conscious musical existence at the Promethean touch of a Liszt! Who that ever heard this Last mentioned marvel sing Schubert’s serenade^ or instrument Rossini’s magnificent overture to “ William Tell ” on the piano-forte, was not enraptured to the highest enthusiasm which the musical art can awaken in a sensitive mind!”
, -
First Regular Meeting of the Sb Gregory’s Society. *
At a regular meeting of the members of the choir held on Monday evening, January 30, 1871, the Rev. A. Granger, Superior of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, at Notre Dame, honored the assembly with his presence and assumed the chair. The Rev. Father then stated that he had proposed the formation of a new Society, and that the Rev; Dr. W. J. Quinn would explain its nature and ob ject. Dr. Quinn arose and said that Father Superior wished a Society to be formed whose name should be “St. Gregory’s Society-” Its object would ba to take part in the offices and form the choir of the Church. Its members wouldbe known as choristers. They would be dressed while in Church in cassock and surplice—the smaller members in cassocks of a red color, and the larger in black. The music which they are to sing will be Gregorian, principally, harmonized. Their banner will be as follows:
Colobs.—White and yellow (Papal.)

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Front Side.—St. Gregory penningtlie notes of sacred music as dictated to him by a heavenly dore.
Reverse.—Tiara with Papal keys, the Antiphon-arium and cove.
Motto.—Cantate Domino canticun novum.
It was announced that the Rev. Father Superior would be President, Rev. Father Quinn, Tice-President; Prof. Von Weller, Director; Bro. Basil, Organist, and Prof. Baasen and Bro. Celestine, Ceasors.
The meeting then proceeded to the election of the remaining officers which resulted as follows, viz: F. C. Bigelow was elected Secretary, J. A. Zahm, Treasurer; Janies Wilson, Librarian. The meeting then adjourned to meet Monday evening, Feb. 6,1871.
SECOND MEETING OF THE ST. GREGORY SOCIETY.
On the evening of Feb. 6,1871, the second meeting of St. Gregoiy’s Society was held, the Rev. A. Granger, President, in the chair.
On motion the following constitution was adopted unanimously, to wit :
bules of st. Gregory’s society at notre dame
UNIVERSITY.
By combined assent let it be agreed, That
1st. The University choir be called “ St. Gre gory’s Society,” and the members thereof Choristers, whose duty it will be to perform the religious music required for the service of the Church on all occasions.
2d. The regulation of the Society be managed by a body of officers consisting of a president, a vice-president, a director of choir, an organist, two censors, a secretary, a treasurer, and a librarian: the first six to be appointed by the Father Superior for the time being, the other three to be elected by vote.
3d. The active members to be selected by the Director of choir, and proposed for approval of president and vice-president. Persons seeking admittance to the Society as honorary' members must be proposed for acceptation at a general meeting of active members.
4th. AU members whether active or honorary must be dressed in cassock and surplice while in choir: all must attend and take part at rehearsals and actual performances of music. Absentees to be marked by the Censors, and obliged to account for their absence when called upon to do so.
5th. General rehearsals will take place on Mondays and Thursdays at 7 P. M., and at other times if necessary, at which the president will preside and take the chair, and to the chairman alone is reserved the right to comment upon the duties and bearing of members, and to judge of proposals or complaints regarding the Society.
6th. The Society must hold one meeting every month to transact business, for which due notice must be given, and at said meeting the minutes of the Society’s doings will be read out by the Secretary and registered for publication; the names of applicants will be received and presented for acceptation ; the social re-unions of the Society arranged, and all sundiy matter discussed. In fine the Society to have its appropriate banner and motto, its meeting room, and the day for election of officers fixed for the 2d Monday of September of each year.
The meeting then began the regular evening practice, after which the Society adjourned.
St. Edward's.
This well-known and prominent Association held its semi-annual business meeting, for the purpose of receiving the semi-yearly reports of the Librarian Treasurer and Secretary, and of electing officers for the coming session.
These‘reports were read before the Association, and unanimously adopted. The Rev. President remarked that they were very complete and satisfactory, and complimented the respective officers
upon the meritorious manner in which they had executed their laborious tasks.
After these remarks the election was proceeded to, resulting in the unanimous selection of the following gentlemen:
President and Director—Rev. A. Lemounier, S.S.C.
Vice-President—T. O’Mahony.
Secretary—R. H. McCarty.
Librarian—J. D. McCormack.
Assistant Librarian—J. M. Rourke.
First Censor—J. McGahan.
Second Censor J. C. K. Heine.
After a brief response from each of the above officers, the meeting adjourned.
R. Halsey McCarty, Sec. PROSPECTS OF ST. ED’S.
The Librarian reports 110 volumes, all in good condition and comprising the works of the best authors. There are twenty-three volumes of the American Encyclopedia. . The Secretary says that they have admitted ten members during the session —four have resigned; have had sixteen literary sessions, seven debates, and twenty-nine essays. Treasurer reports finances in a flourishing condition.	SlNGULARIUS.
St. Cecilia Ehilomathean Association.
The eighteenth regular meeting was held Janu-aiy 28th. R. Lange presented himself at this meeting for membership, and, after reading an essay on “ Tlie Power of Habit,” was unanimously elected. The debate, “Resolved that Public Education is better for a Citizen than Private,” was decided on. Declamations followed. M. Hunter delivered “Against the American War,” with very fine effect. His improvement in articulation was visible. A humerous selection by C. Peterson, was given with much grace and modulation. “ Dandified," by J. McGuire, brought down the house without doing any damage. B. Roberts then delivered “ Sym-phronius Speech for War.” Mr. Roberts will have to practise a good deal before he will appear like Symphronius. J. Crummey appeared very well in “ Shamus O’Brian,” and C. Berdel, in “ Bernardo del Carpio.” Of the essays read, C. Dodge on “Loquacity,” and P. Scott on a “Description of Niagra,” were the best. The parts of the comedy entitled “The Miser,” wrere then distributed to the members, after which the meeting adjourned.
D. Egan, Cor. Sec.
The Thespians.
At a meeting of this Society held on Wednesday, 1st inst., the following officers were elected for the ensueing session:
Director—Rev. A. Lcmonnier.
President—J. Wilson.
Vice-President—J. Gearin.
Recording Secretary—R. McCarty.
Corresponding Secretary—J. Mulquinn.
Treasurer—T. Dillon.
Frst Censor—W. E. Roberts.
Second Censor—G. Darr.
First Stage Manager—F. Shephard.
Second Stage Manager—E. Gambee.
The Thespians of this year intend to keep up the excellent reputation of this society, one of the oldest at Notre Dame, and are doing all in their power to make a grard display of their dramatic alUiticx during the coming session. The first appearance of the Thespians this session will be in the drama entitled, “ Rory O’Moor,” -which will be played on the evening of the 21st inst.
J. J. Mulquinn, Cor. Sec.
A class of Spanish has commenced, this session, with Rev. L. G. Chemin as Professor.
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY.
St. Mart’s, Feb. 7,1871. arrivals.
Miss Anna Duffield, Martinsville, Ohio.
“ Jessie Duffield, “	“
“ Clara Bay,	Chicago, Hl.
“ Esther Blum,	“	“
“ Agnes Conahan,	“	“
“ Ella Drake, Willow Springs, Ill.
The examination closed on Wednesday the 1st inst. Each pupil was patiently and thoroughly examined in the studies of her class by the Boards of Examiners, and noted according to the clearness and intelligence of her answers.
A number of the young ladies gave evidence of high intellectual capacity and close application. The majority pissed a creditable examination, and but very few fell below a good average: these few were so chagrined at being the exceptions to the rule, that they have commenced the new term with the noble resolution to repair past negligences and stand at the next examination among the best in their class. A full report of notes and progress in classes has been forwarded to the parents and guardians of the pupils.
The examination in vocal and instrumental music lasted a week. The young ladies comprising the First Class showeel a marked improvemi nt—playing in an intelligent manner selections from Thalberg, Chopin, Zael, Goria and Wagner. Miss Shirlnnd deserves special mention for her superior performance on the harp.
TABLE OF HONOR—SR. DEP't.
February o—Misses H. Niel, A. Sturgis, A. Radin, M. Kirwan, N. Moriarty, K. Young, A. Locke, B. O’Neill, C. Foote, A. Rhinehart, E. Marshall, M. Kellogg, M. Toberty.
TABLE OF HONOR—JR. DEp’t.
January 24—Misses L. Niel, L. Jones, M. and J. Kearney, F. Rush, M. Hoover, L. Wood, M. Reynolds, H. Ely.
HONORABLE MENTION—SR. DEP’t.
Third Senior Class—Miss N. Gross.
First Preparatory Class—Misses M. Kreutzcr, M. Quan, B. Frank.
Second Preparatory Class—L. Tinsley, C. Stanffers, A. Garrity, M. Cummings.
Third Preparatory Class—Misses M. Sweeny, F. Lloyd, H. Seipp.
Junior Preparatory Class—Misses O. Darling, E. Horgon.
First Junior Class—Misses F. Prince, M. Reynolds, A. Garrity.
Second Junior Class—Misses M. Ely, K. Lloyd, G. DeHaven.
HONORABLE MENTION FOR PLAIN SEWING.
Misses L.Niel, M. Kearney, M. Sweeny, L. Wood.
FOR FANCY WORK.
Misses M. Kreutzer, M. Cummings.
In connection with the above honorable mentions in plain sewing, we will here insert an extract from a letter received by little Lizzie Niel from her father, M. J. Niel, of St. Louis, acknowledging the receipt of a shirt made entirely by her hands. He says: “ I have shown your work to a very particular gentleman with whom I room, he was surprised at the work for a girl of your age. He said it equalled the sewing of one who is regarded as the best seamstress in the city.”
Adelaid Phillips, the eminent singer, attended a musical party where the amateurs led ofi' with most difficult selections from the operas; but the great opera singer simply seated herself at the piano, and sai.g “Kathleen Mavoumeen” nith such thrilling sweetness, that the young Irish girl who was setting the supper-table in the next room, forgot her plates and teaspoons, threw herself into a chair, put her apron over her face and sobbed as if her heart would break.