Bwated, to th® interests nf th® Stitxbnt^
“IjABOB O3L2VLV VINCIT.1’
Volume III.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JULY 9, 1870.
Number 21.
For the “Notre Dame Scholastic.”
JLaiitiidinarianism.
By this term is meant the modern systematic repudiation of any_^red belief. It is the name under which the denial of divine authority has become too popular, and it numbers that widespread but unhappy class of men known as in-differentists, among its most zealous defenders.
Indeed, by denying divine authority it lias paved the way for contempt of all authority. Latitudinarian views have made fools of wise men, and slaves of those who boasted of their freedom. With their malicious alchemy, they have filled the innocent heart with criminal thoughts and desires,—all in the name of Liberty, forsooth! And they have by imperceptible steps led even the faithful soul to bold apostasy. Is such an enemy not to be feared ?
Latitudinarianism is a monster with a hydra head. It assumes the most subtle forms, excuses the most dangerous vices, and upon the plausible pretext of humane and benevolent legislation, or of noble and generous toleration, gilds crime with a romantic character, and holds the criminal up to public sympathy as an injured party, who, by the severity of laws and the cruelty of society, has been compelled, to be a villain. Latitudinarianism is diametrically opposed to everything which relates to Christianity, and delights in exposing its most sacred principles to the ridicule of those who are so shallow as to become the dupes of empty sophistries. Always voluble and self-reliant, full of artifice, and never without an advocate in the evil inclinations of poor human nature, watchful and humble, faithful and wise indeed must be the heart not seduced by its snares. The first Latitudinarian upon earth was the same who appeared to Eve. In a characterist’c manner he opened to her the flattering prospect of immunity from punishment, even should she disobey. At the present day, as then, the Latitudinarian serpent employs his fangs with very rigid prudence. The slime of flattery must completely envelop his intended victim before the venom is displayed, and on this account he is greatly to be feared.
lie adopts various names, but “ Reform” is his favorite generic name; yet the specific title under which he has done most mischief of late has been that of “ Universalism.” His most successful conquests against virtue have been achieved under the patronage of that degrading and ridiculous doctrine; the hypothesis that there is no eternal punishment for sin ; that there is no hell; that all men will be saved no matter how great tlieir crimes, how hard their hearts, how unre pentant they are, or how intensely they hate God. Some may be startled at the statement made in so plain language, and yet those very persons who are shocked may, by their indifference to positive truths, encourage in the young the very belief which revolts them when openly stated.
The changes are rung upon this the favorite “ dogma” of pretended theologians; and admirers of elocution who have embraced this Satanic “ dogma” will find their ears as pleasantly regaled upon this point by Henry Ward Beeclier> Dr. Bellows, Prof. Rush, and the like, as by E. H. Chapin, Theodore Parker, Ralph Waldo Emerson, or those who boast themselves most liberal. Manner may be unlike: matter is the same. Defunct or living, Old School or New, Unitarian, Swedenborgian, Rationalist, or what not, all return most consistently to the key-note, “ There is no hell; There is no sin; Christianity is an interesting system of mythology, or a malicious fabrication of designing villains,” according to the incipient or advanced, stage of the learner in this latitudinarian school.
But what has all this to do with yonng men at college ? Much, indeed, when we look at the na ural results of imbibing the principles in question. But a few years ago, R. W. Emerson, before an audience of the elite of Chicago, expressed his hope that “ the time was not far dis tant when the great metropolis of the west would not number her churches by hundreds, but by thousands, and hundreds of thousands; when every man should be his own. Church." And the elite of Chicago paid this refined defender of cut-throats, burglars and profligates, round sums in money, smiles and applause; but when the longed occasion arrives upon which cut throats, burglars and profligates are each “ their own church,” perhaps they may not be aware of how much trouble they wsu’.d have saved themselves by frowning down a sentiment so licentious and destructive to good morals.
It is the fatal effects produced upon the young which imparts to this principle of false liberty its most startling feature. It throws parents off their guard. Children are left to their own inclinations. however depraved, and to companions of their own choice—too often adepts in vice. Christian duties are despised. The father, doubting the promises of faith, doubts also the utility of anything less substantial than dollars and cents, and plunges headlong into the vortex of business; whilst the moral training of his children is made secondary to the increase of his bank stock. Perhaps he leaves that training to his wife. Accustomed to the same mental food of her thrifty husband, she finds no higher motive than self gratification: and society, dress, shopping, and frivolous reading, are made paramount to any obligation of protecting her children from bad example.
Latitudinarianism lowers the aim of life in every way. It begins by questioning the only standard by which right and wrong can be properly judged. It bides the true destiny of man from his sight; and brutal desires, low objects and ignoble conduct are but natural. Self-sacrifice even for the sake of those we pretend to love, is the last thing thought of. Mothers are no longer mothers in heart. If they have affection fortheir
children, it is only an animal regard, a desire to see them in good physical condition—well dressed, well fed, admired, and with the prospect of a “good chance” in the world. Count me the children today who have the first idea of self-abnegation ! Show me the youth who will humbly, and without palliation and excuse, admit that he has wronged his companion, or committed any given fault! Show me those who will not take the occasion to revenge upon their enemies! If there are a few, charge their small number to the protection which Christian faith has exerted over them. If they are not to be found, lay it to the account of the false liberty which we are endeavoring to expose. “ There is no hell: heaven is a fanciful region very like the place Joe Smith or Mahomet would like to have the earth. Ralph Waldo Emerson or Theodore Parker are superior author-rity to those unfortunate people who witnessed the establishment of Christianity, and who believed in overcoming the evil inclinations of the human heart for the purpose of living a pure and holy life.”
To these sentiments, peddled in newspapers, spouted in country school-houses, preached in stylish edifices, and devoured by selfish men and women, to free them from the obligations enjoined by Christianity, we owe the frightful prevalence of crime. The recital of hideous depravity no longer disgii'ts. Murder has well nigh ceased to be a capital offense, it is so easy to prove insanity in every case; and how often the ready acquittal leaves the accomplished murderer or forger free to continue his career, and to teach his fiendish lessons of crime to youth who are their own masters. Suicide has become honorable in the estimation of a large class. Books that our fathers would shudder to hear mentioned, are necessary to complete a fashionable library. These misfortunes can be directly traced to the popularity of the" universalian” aide.
Youth blest with the restraint of faith, how happy your lot! Prize it then, nor trifle with its protection. Let your companions see the advantages which it bestows upon you, and scrupulously avoid whatever it condemns, whether in social intercourse, literature, or habits of thought and action. Earth and time can never reveal to you the prvilegeyou have received. Your heart is pure because shielded from the obscenities and evils which lurk everywhere to gain entrance. Pray that it may always be thus shielded. Your mind is enlightened because heavenly patrons have excluded therefrom the ridiculous sophistries which have sapped the foundation of virtue and intelligence in other souls, and imposed upon the credulity of your neighbor. By your gratitude for this distinguished mercy, honor the religion which drew this grace upon you. Never permit a light or doubting thought respecting it to creep into your heart. If you do, you will be nursing the viper to sting you in a day when you may be powerless to defend yourself against its
s>»-
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
deadly attacks. Honor nothing so much as your faith. Do this, and every noble disposition will follow. Reverence for your spiritual guides, honor and obedience to your parents; patriotism, heroism, all that is holy and true, will become as second nature; and in this way, and by this means alone, you will become invulneiable to the insidious approach of the Latitudinarian serpent which lurks around your Paradise of Faith, Hope, and Charity.
An Old Contributor.
Tor the “Notre Same Scholastic.**
SATIRES.
Htpocrist.
5Fhat’s in an empty name, beside Its sound ? the Bard or Avon cried. u Vox, et praeterea nil" he'd say: ' Ah 1 did he Ihe until our day, Tho’ wise, much wiser he had been, Beholding but tho fearful scene The world present*, of wilful woes, Of bitter words, of angry blows, Of hate, of envy, malice, crime. And sin, tn every age and clime— For what? blush crimson, man, with shame, Bor nothing but an empty name!
Weak creature of a fleeting hour. Unto the dread Almighty power Whose wisdom shaped the tiny ball On which thou crawlest—thee, and all That thou beholdest —dost thou raise Thy feeble voice in love and praise? For pity on thy countless woes ? For mercy on thine erring foes ? For blessings on thy friends? Ah, no! Naught asked save anger, vengeance, woe! Forgetting that thy Maker's will Is, to thy fellows do do ill Nor evil wish; love all, hate none, But do as thou wouldst have it done By them to thee—nor thickest thou That He, to whom His creatures bow In reverence, and MFather*’ call, Paternal, loves not one, but all. Zftou servest Him in body, they In spirit lowly kneeling, pray. Hence, bigotry and hate and lies Are rife, while true religion dies. So much is in an empty name— For shame, ye jarring sects, for shame!
Patriotism.
God gave thee liberty, a home, a land To love, joined with the just command	*
To rule it wisely—fruitful vales, High mountains, rivers, wooded dales. Lakes, teeming cities, boundless seas. With smiling peace to crown all these— God save that country, M<n, from thee! Since from high mountain-top to sea *Tis red with blood—'tis filled with slain. And woe, and want—both land and main Cry out against thee—orphans sigh, And wailing widows raise on high Their hands to curse thee—why is this? Why want for plenty, war for peace?
Each studious of the common good Two rival factions fierce upstood; Thus shall ye think, and speak, and do, Loud shouted one; the other, too, Was stiff necked, proud and stubborn—so This howling waste of want and woe: They differed most in what? a name— 0 citizens, 0 freemen, shame!
Bigotby.
In some obscure, forgotten spot, Or when or where unworth a thought, Upon a noteless day or night It chanced thy Saintship saw the light— Hence, every matron, maid or man. Whose earthly pilgrimage began In other lands beyond the sea, Tho* wiser, better far than thee, Is hated, wronged, despised, belied, Nature and nature's God defied; Forgotten all the sacred ties That from a common parentage arise, With common hopes, that live within The heatt, and “make the world akin "___ For what? a chance-begotten name________ 0 sons of Adam, brothers, shame I
“ O Tempora ! O Mores !”
The earliest task imposed on man Is, to be born—if he can ! The second next that be must do Is, buy or beg a name or two To serve as weights, when iu the race Of life be takes his destined place 'Gainst Time to run, the nimble knave, Speeding from cradle on to grave !
“ On dit ** that Adam had a name, Of Eve we mav affirm the aame. And Cain,aud Abel, with the test Descending fiom that first and best Of loving couples— every wight Forth-issuing frum gloomy night Of nothingness to being's day, Deceives a name without delay, And b ’nietimes two, or three, or four Precede the on*- his daddy bore. Some, staking life 'gainst deeds of fame, Win for themselves a worthless name, While others gain it, doing naught, Sooner than it for it they fought; Since *tis a favor that a friend Or foe may freely grant or lend Without great loss, or breaking bones, To nameless Smith, or Brown, or Jones! Our hero's father owned a Dame In ancient times well known to fame. And heralded oft. by her mouth Both east, and west, and north, and south, Sonorous on the winged wind To every classic ear refined— Some shout fur king or queen or snob— Iler constant cry was, “ Patt O’Gob!”
Philology.
Those who the ancient Gaelic speak Say, “gob" means jaw, or bill, or beak, Or open mouth, w hile gaping “ 0 " Doth son, or offspring plainly show; Hence may we gather that some odo, Dead long before the life begun Ofouryoting hero, 'mung his sires, For whom in vain the Muse inquires, Had famous been for wit or sense, * Or loud, long-winded eloquence, Like zEsop, or Demosthenes, Who made stump^peeches to the seas.
A bag of wind, a big balloon, O'er mens' heads sailing to the moon, Till punctured by the dart of death, Dow*n flat it pops -out pops its breath, And nil collapsed, it quiet lies, • To swell no more, no more to rise— Or like an ancient cask of wine, Was that progenitor ot thine, O’Gob; evaporating fast. Till but the keg remained at last; The empty name, still fit to hold A spirit strong as his of old!
Patres Conscrifti.
Old Marcus Tully wore a wen His Roman nose upon, and when Bold Cataline of it made fun, “It proves I am mj father's son,” He frowning said; the same is true Of names, both “ sir,” aud *• Christian,” too: Since oft in families we see How pride of ancient ancestry Doth make the father name the son
( From some great great grand-dad who ran His mortal course long yeats before, And whose pruud name, in days of yore Was noble deemed The very same Befel our hero, and his name.
When first he raised bis feeble cry. The smiling father, standing by, Burst forth in tunes of pride aud joy, “The Latins camo frum ancient Troy, And we from them through sunny Spain, Swift speeding o'er the watery main; Hence will I give my son aud heir Tho Roman “nomeu” that I bear, The noble name my fathers bore For countless ag s: long before They lauded on this island, when The Komuli were living men.” This said, lie pave the babe a ‘•bus” And christened him—Patritius 11
A Barrister, noted for his absence of mind, was once witnessing the representation of Macbeth: and on the witch’s replying to the Thane’s inquiry, that they were “ doing a deed without a name,” catching the sound of the words, he started up, exclaiming, to the astonishment of the audience, “A deed without a name! it’s not worth sixpence.”
For the “Notre Dame Scholastic.”
Law and Lawyers.
Address by Jas. O'Reilly, A. B^ of the Law Class, delivered at the Twenty-sixth Annual Commencement of the University
of Notre Dame, June 22,2870.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
The subject on which it has become my part to make a few remarks, is one of high importance. I could wish that I had the time and the ability to do it the justice it deserves. With your indulgence, however, I shall attempt to present, as briefly as may be, a few of the most general principles which belong to Law, which, rightly understood, is the first and the noblest of all human human sciences.
Law is said to be a rule of civil conduct; and properly so,—for there is no act of man with man in society into which the Law does not enter, which it does not govern, direct and control. Whether expressed aud promulgated by legislatures, or written on the tablets of conscience by the hand of the Creator, it is all the same a rule of civil or social conduct, everywhere commanding what is right and prohibiting what is wrong. It may be called Civil Law dr Municipal Law; Common Law or Constitutional Law, or whatever the fancy of the Commentator may please, but still it is the guide of man’s conduct in society> whether he be the citizen of a republic or the subject of a monarchy.
The Creator is primarily the source of all Law and thus viewed it is necessarily founded on a moral basis from which in fact it derives its efficacy and its binding force. All things created have their laws to follow and obey, from the sun rolling in his majesty through the broad blue heavens, down to the little bee that banquets on the breath of the rose: and from man created little below the angels, to the insect that dies after a day’s existence.
• There cannot be a more interesting study than that of the law, although often spoken of as being dry and uninteresting; for it enables us to distinguish the criterion of right and wrong; it teaches us to establish the one, and prevent, punish, or redress the other; and it requires in its application and study the noblest faculties of the intellect. Not only, then, is the study of Law interesting and useful, but a knowledge of it is necessary ; for almost the whole life of man implies, or rather is a continual application of law, under the name of contracts.
Social life rests its foundation upon contracts either expressed or implied; for out of these proceed all duties, all rights, and all obligationsEven those acts of kindness and affection which seem to be the most remote from any idea of compulsion, are, nevertheless, within the scope of legal obligations.
All human laws have their type in the Divine Law, and are only modifications of it, in so far as man can adapt and apply it to the various relations and wants of society; and hence human laws are just, desirable, and good, in proportion as they reach this model. Every act of right or of duty which we perform, is performed in obedience to the dictates of some law expressed or implied. The Law presumes that all men have contracted to do what reason and justice dictate. It is, for example, comformable to reason and justice that the parent should have the absolute right to control and educate his children, and the law presumes that the exercise of this right carries with it the duty of the conscientious performance of these things. Hence it is constantly acting on society, either by express enactments, or by implications; by express enactments
J
I.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
when it prescribes our duties through constitutions, legislatures, or judicial decisions; and by implication, when it holds us responsible for the fulfillment or nonfulfillment of those social obligations and duties which nature and reason have plainly pointed out. If men were all that they ought to be, the law would have only to instruct or ad vise; and it is because they are not so, and for the preservation of the social tie, that the law exercises a compulsory power.
Whatever men have agreed to do, but have not done, or whatever was their duty of right to do, even without any express agreement, but they have failed or refused to do it, this the law will compel them to do, and force the wrong doer to compensate the injured patty.
Considering, then, the nature and functions of law, and the important part it plays in the social order, whether as a protecter of rights or as a punisher of wrongs, it will be readily seen that the very highest possible degree of mental as well as of legal training is necessary in whosoever undertakes the serious task of expounding and applying this rule of civil conduct to the actions of his fellow-men.
It may, indeed, be safely said that no other human science requires so high a degree of moral integrity, nor so many and so varied intellectual accomplishments in its followers, as does that of theLaw,—and thisismost logically true; forasit deals with and affects every interest and relation in human society, it is clear that he who undertakes to direct and apply its mighty force in such grave concerns ought to be morally and intellectually, as nearly as may be, a perfect man.
As/have been taught to understand the Law, this is the only true view of it; and so viewing it, it may well be regretted that the ruinously indiscriminate practice of admissions to the Bar has brought so much disgrace on so noble a profession, and laid it open with some show of reason to the attacks of malice or of ignorance.
It may, indeed, be admitted, and perhaps it would be uncandid to deny, that a great reformation is needed in many things in the Legal Profession. But let us be just, and stop to think before casting the stone: it is not fair to put the sins of society upon the shoulders of a particular class.
If the expounder of the Law of Sinai refuses to give to Ctesar what belongs to Cmsar, and employs and pays a lawyer to aid him in his dishonesty, the advocate may indeed be a scoundrel, but is the expounder then a saint ? When the drunkard goes into the tavern and gets drunk in violation of the law, he is clearly wrong in two ways: but when he employs a lawyer to defend him, according to the law which says he may not pay for the liquors in such cases, it may not be strictly honorable in the latter to prevent the poison-vender from getting the price of his poison, but it was his poison nevertheless for which he paid, and deliberately purchased from him by the drunkard. Is the latter honest in refusing to pay under the circumstances? He is not. Well, these are examples of the tendency of the age. “ Take all you can, and keep all you get,” is the practical motto of these times. Practically, this enlightened age ignores abstract truth, and sneers at morality and moral obligations.
Certainly every true lawyer wishes to see the accomplishment of the needed reformation in his noble profession, but though he were spotless as an angel he could not prevent the evil effects of the “free-lunch” systems of manufacturing and turning out famishing swarms of lawyerlingi upon the community every nine months!
These “ free-lunch " institutions have multiplied to an alarming extent in our midst, and seem to have little else in view than material or pecuniary success. Whatever may be the general theory as
to qualifications for admission to the Bar, the general practice is simply “ a farce, a mockery, a delusion, and a snare!” Discourses about morality and education are charming gewgaws to please the public ear, and make at the same time admirable cloaks under which the honest dolt and the penitentiary candidate may enter these law-yerling’s factories, and pass through them, and out of them too, and “ no questions asked,” if their pockets can but respond to “matriculation,” “ extra,” “graduating,” and other similarly moral and intellectual demands. This is the one thing necessary; all other qualifications, if not positively objectionable, are at least indifferent, and the fewer of them with which the “ law student” encumbers himself, the sooner will he revolve around the nominal circle sarcastically called “ a course of studies.” Quo magis neszitur, eo magis admiratur. The less he knows, the more cause shall he have to wonder at the dexterity of his instructors in making him a lawyer!
All true and honest men must protest against this state of things. Under a transparent cover of public decency, inducements and baits of all sorts are thrown out for the purpose of catching numbers in the venal nets of “special committees" and “free lunch” institutions, and hence we have those crowds who should be expiating their crimes in penitentiaries, ministering at the altar of justice.
It is therefore to little purpose that those who control legal education say high sounding-things about the qualifications of lawyers so long as they practically ignore the most ordinary degree of fitness in the individuals whom they pretend to train for the profession, and so long as these cheap lawyerlitig systems, finding the business a profitable source of revenue, turn themselves into channels through which the scum of society may flow into the legal profession! The morbid sentimentalism and the gross materialism of the age have labored with unmistakable success not only in establishing their boasted equality between morality and licentiousness, but they have gained the prominence if not the preference for the latter. If, then, no one can defend the abuse which unconscionable men have made, and are making, of this profession, so neither can anyone commend the condition of things which has made this abuse almost honorable. Subtlety in circumventing, and not honesty in aiding justice, is the primary, perhaps the only quality which litigants, as a class, demand in those whom they would employ to transact their legal business.
I am making no apology for the disreputable practice of the swarms of lawyerlings who infest the legal profession, any more than I am for the swarms of infant murderers who infest the medi cal profession but, since these thingsareso,society cannot fairly play the Pharisee, and pretend to be piously amazed at the nature and quality of the supply created by the nature and quality of its own demands! One may plant thistles and thorns in the spring time, if he will but from these he must not expect to gather in figs and grapes in the harvest-time. This would be too much to expect; and accordingly the fruits which we are gathering possess the nature of the seeds which we have sown. Let us stop sowing these seeds; let us require more than a legerdemain familiarity with formalities in everyone who aspires to enter this profession, and then we may confidently hope to remove the many abuses by which it is disfigured, and leave the Law free in the fulness and glory of its own majesty to command what is right and prohibit what is wrong.
The transgressor who has felt the weight of its unerring justice, or the flippant wit who is ignorant of its grandeur and dignity, may say harsh things or rail against it, but it is not from their
ranks have come a Choate, a Webster, a Burke, or an O’Connell.
In all times the best lawyers have been the truest patriots, and the most generous defenders of popular rights and liberty.
The study of the Law, then, is a generous, a liberalizing, an ennobling study; its history is the history of justice between man and man, and though around the beantiful temple in which that justice dwells may be accumulated the abuses and slanders of hoary ages, still the beauty and magnificence of that temple are untarnished; its glorious proportions are undiminished by the hand of time, and its strength and solidity are unshaken, because its foundations rest on truth itself.
[From Special Correspondence of the Chicago Evening Journal.} Commencement Exercises at the University of Notre Dame, Ind.
Notre Dame, Ind., June 27,1870.
The tweuty.sixth annual commencement of the University of Notre-Dame took place on the 21st and 22d inst. Excepting the State University of Michigan, the University of Notre Dame has a larger number of scholars in attendance than any other university or college in the Northwest, a fact which speaks well for its superior merit, and evinces the confidence of those patronizing it.
So much has already been written descriptive of the magnificence and splendor of the exterior and interior ofthe university building, the healthfulness, picturesqueness and loveliness of the location of Notre Dame, that we deem it quite superfluous to make any more than this passing allusion to them now.
Tuesday forenoon was devoted to a solemn High Mass, breakfast, reception ofthe Alumni; in the afternoon and evening, the banquet of the Alumni, a regatta, supper, and musical and other exercises, including a representation, by the Thespian Association, of the tragedy of “William Tell,” and the comedy of “The Benefit of Hanging,” under direction of Prof. Corby.
Wednesday—Commencement exercises, address, poem, and music; after which, “ The Upstart,” a comedy, oration by Professor Broder, conferring of degrees, etc.
As will be seen from the programme, the exercises occupied two days. The principal feature of the forenoon of Tuesday, 21st, was the Alumni business meeting, which commenced at half-past nine and continued till half-past one in the afternoon. After the transaction of the customary business, the election of officers of the Associated Alumni resulted as follows: President, Rev. N. H. Gillespie, S. S. C.; First Vice President, Prof. A. J. Stace, A. 31.; Second Vice President, 0. T. Chamberlain, A 31.; Treasurer, Prof. J. A Lyons, A. 31.; Secretary, Prof. 31. T. Corby, A M.; Orator, 0. T. Chamberlain, A. 31.; Alternate, T. A Corcoran, A 31.; Poet, Rev. 31. B. Brown, S. 3. C.; Alternate, F. C. Biglow, A 31.
At this stage of proceedings the Alumni, together with invited guests, sat down to a sumptuous dinner, after which Prof. A J. Stace, A BL, with a few facetious preliminary remarks, read the toasts for the occasion, which were responded to briefly and appropriately by those whose names are annexed:
The Pope—Response by Very Rev. Fr. Sorin. The Hierarchy and Clergy—Rev. W. Corby. The Laborers in the field of education—Prof.
T. E. Howard, A 31.
Our Country—Rev. Fr. Gillespie.
Our Alma Mater—O. T. Chamberlain, A IL
The Press—Prof. Paul Broder, A 3L The Ladies—Prof. W. Ivers, A M.
A regatta on Lake St. Joseph, immediately in
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
in the rear of the University, was the chief object of attraction in the afternoon. The banks were crowded with spectators assembled to witness the boat race. After a spirited contest between the student crews, the prize, a handsome silver goblet, was awarded to the winners and by them’confided for safe keeping to one of their number, IL Roe, of Newark, Ohio.
In the evening the exhibition hall, although large and commodious, was crowded with spectators assembled to witness the performancce of “ William Tell,” a tragedy in three acts, presented by the members of the Thespian Association, under the direction of Prof. M. T. Corby. The students are, of course, amateurs, and not professional actors, and hence we cannot expect all the brilliancy that we might anticipate from stars. The students all did well in their respective characters taken,and more than a few did a good deal better.
“ The Benefit of Hanging,” a comedy in one act, was a laughter-provoking affair, and a very creditable performance. With this, Tuesday’s entertainments closed in merriment and glee, just as they should, for it is much wiser to be merry than erable, especially if it costs no more.
Commencement proper began on Wednesday, and the Wednesday morning trains from Chicago and the east brought large numbers of visitors, The adjoining city of South Bend was crowded to repletion with them, and from early sunrise till bright noon, carriages came carrying each its full quota of spectators from the surrounding country and towns. The day was beautifully clear and pleasant, and “ everything was lovely." The scenery around Notre Dame was in the high noon of itsglory. Midst flowers and foliage, fresh air and bright sunshine, beauty and music, one might indeed fancy himself in a fairy Eden. Promptly at 8:30 in the morning the Notre Dame University Brass Band, composed of students of the University, struck up in lively tones the “ Grand Entrance March,” and lively was the manner in which the exhibition hall was filled till it could hold no more.
The exercises were so long that we cannot enter into a detailed account We shall, therefore, notice only a few of the meritorious, leaving many deserving without that mention which, had we space, we should gladly give.
“ The Columbian” was delivered by L. Hayes, son of Hon. S. S. Hayes, of Chicago, in an able manner.
The “Address from the Law Department,” by J. A. O’Reilly, did credit to himself and was really a gem.
And here it may not be amiss to say a word for the Law Department. While in other institutions the students merely sit and listen to oral lectures from their professors, and finish their law studies in two terms of not quite six months each, at Notre Dame the Law course extends through two collegiate years of ten months each.
The Valedictory, by A. W. Arrington, son of the late Judge Arrington, of Chicago, was a composition evincing a considerable depth and grasp of thought and control of language. Young Arrington will yet reflect honor on his Alma Mater.
Next came the conferring of degrees, as follows: The degree of Master of Arts was conferred on Wm. T. Johnson, of Sedalia, Mo.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on Alfred W. Arrington, Chicago, Ill; Wm. Waldo, Independence, Mo.; Thomas B. Miller, Peru, Ind.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science was conferred on Dennis A. Clarke, Columbus, Ohio,
Medical Certificates were given to Chas. J. Lundy, Detroit Mich.; Michael J. Skilling, Waterloo City, Ind.; Lafayette Batson, Niles, Mich.; Eugene Bucher, Cedarville, HL
j-----------------------------------------------
The Degree of Master of Accounts was conferred on Lawrence Wilson, Trenton, N. J.; Wm. EL Roy. Palmyra, Mo.; John Broderick, Cairo, Ill.; John C. Leunig, Mount Vernon, Ind.; Charles Marantette, Mendon, Mich.; John Mulhall, St Louis, Mo.; John M. Duffy, Watertown, Wis.; D. Fitzgerald, Kildare, Wis.; James Sutherland, Chicago, HL; Charles Clarke, Notre Dame, Ind.; Thomas Dillon, Notre Dame, Ind.; Samuel Dum, Amanda, Ohio; Jacob C. Eisenman, Louisville, Ry.; Knud L Espy, Fort Madison, Iowa; Wm. Kiley, Delphi, Ind.; Nathaniel Shelton, Notre Dame, Ind.	.
After the distribution of premiums and honors, the Right Rev. Bishop Borgess, of Detroit, addressed the audience in a well-timed speech of a few minute’s duration, in which he uttered graceful compliments and kind farewells. The Rev. W. Corby, S. S. C., President of the University, in his felicitous way, occupied a few moments, after which the immense audience repaired to the spacious refectories of the University, where ample justice was soon done to a tempting dinner.
The musical portion of the exercises, as is always the case at Notre Dame, was of a very superior order.
Before closing, we would wish to express our thanks for kindness and favors shown us by Prof. J. A. Lyons, of the University, who, perhaps, has done as much as “ any other man” toward making the University what it is. For similar good works we also thank Prof. W. Ivers, A. M.
P.B.
The “ Silver Jubilee.”
Silver Jubilee of the University of Notre Dame, compiled and published by Joseph A. Lyons, A. M. Second edition. Chicago: E. B. M^ers & Co.
In this volume of 344 pages the students and friends of Notre Dame will find a very pleasing souvenir of the twenty-fifth annual exercises, which occurred last year, marking the Silver Jubilee of this highly successful institution. The volume contains a history of Notre Dame, a description of the university, brief biographical sketches of the alumni, and a full graphic report of the proceedings of a year ago, with a more brief summary of the principal features of the commencement exercises of the present year. The book has been compiled with great care, is beautifully printed on tinted paper, illustrated with several interesting views and faithful portraits, and bound in style which fits it for the drawingroom-table. Professor Lyons, the compiler, has evidently had his heart in the work, and has done a lasting service to all who have ever been connected with the institution, in furnishing them with the principal facts in the history of itself and the individuals who have been most prominently connected with it
Silver Jubilee of the University of Notre Dame. Second edition. By Joseph A. Lyons. Chicago: E. B. Myers A Co. 1870.
The alumni of the University of Notre Dame ought to patronize this handsome volume, devoted to their Alma Mater and their own achievements very generally. Here are over 300 pages elegantly' bound, printed on tinted paper, and illustrated with portraits of the founder and principal officers of the university, and many interesting views of Notre Dame. It is one of the most complete college souvenirs we ha ve ever seen, and altogether the handsomest. It was first brought out last season, but has been greatly enlarged and improved the present year. Prof. Lyons has filled bis part as editor with taste and discrimination, producing a really beautiful volume.
[From the Musical Independent Chicago. ]
Kotrc Dame Commencement.
We had the pleasure of a somewhat hurried visit to the University of Notre Dame (South Bend ) on the occasion of the Annual Exhibition, June 22. The exercises consisted of Gieek. Latin and English addresses, several pieces by the Notre Dame University Brass Band, two overtures (“William Tell’’and “Tancred” by the orchestra), two dramatic performances by the Thespian Society (the tragedy of “William Tell ” and the comedy "The Benefit of Hanging”), and a repetition of the late Mr. Girac’s cantata composed for the Silver Jubilee of Notre Dame University, which occured last year.
The cantata occupies about twenty minutes and contains two or three very clear choruses and recitatives. It does not, however, contain a single striking melody or air, this we regard as a pity. The orchestral score was very imperfectly represented in the absence of trombones, French horns, kettle drums, without which a modern orchestra is scarce half made up. The chourses were taken by the choir of about thirty (the sopranos being, of course, boys) and gave admirable evidence of the thorough drill they have been subjected to by the very capable instructor of singing. Prof. M* T. Corby. The orchestra was too small to do much with the somewhat formidable overture to “ Wiliam Tell,” especially as one of the two first violins was compelled to act as conductor much of the time. Still it is no small achievement to have an orchestra at all, and we have no doubt that year by year the standard of execution will be elevated as the resources multiply, until grand symphonies by the old masters will ring through the classic groves of-Notre Dame. The principal first violin, Prof. Muhlberger, S. S. C., is a great enthusiast, and possesses three choice violins, one of which is a genuine Amati. The Brass Band played excellently, and the dramas were very well put upon the stage and carried through with spirit. We also took a look at the spacious and elegant buildings, saw the great bell (the largest in America) which weighs fourteen thousand pounds, takes four men to ring, has been heard a distance of sixty miles, they say, and vibrates like the peal of an organ full five minutes tafter it has been struck; saw also the, library, the beautiful grounds, and sampcled the eatables. By virtue of which we perceived the University has but one drawback— no woman disurbs the classic retreat! A perfect paradise of bachelors—some of “arts” and all of nature.
For the sake of what the Yale Literary Magazine used to be, in point of dignity and ability, we regret exceedingly that its management seems to have fallen into the hands of some inexperienced boy. But even boys ought to have a sacred regard for truth and good breeding, and as the Lit. has abundance of room for improvement in these two respects, we trust that it will not be guilty of telling any more fibs about some of its 'exchanges.
The examination of Music passed off very creditably on the 13th ult. Of the 70 candidates who presented themselves at the examination, the following deserved promotion:
To the Conservatory.—J. Rumely, Laporte, Ind, Violin; S. Dum, Amanda, Ohio, Piano; E. Buehler, Chicago, HL, Piano: C. Ortmayer, Chicago, HL, Piano; R. Staley, Sedalia, Mo., Piano; C. Hutchings, Brooklyn, New York, Piano.
To the 1st Class—J. Duffy, Watertown, Wis., Violin; W. H. Murphy, New York, Flute; J. McGuire, Chicago, Ill., Violin; W. Clarke, Chicago Ill., Flute.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
^otre Jame Scholastic.
PUBLISHED SEMI-MONTHLY
AT NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
TERMS:
One year........................................$2 00
Five months..................................... 1 00
Clubs of five, iu the University, one year...... 100
Single copies ............................... 5	cents.
The Notre Dame Scholastic can be obtained at the Students’ office.

Exhibition Day at Notre Dame University.
The 26tb scholastic year of our Alma Mater closed, the Annual Commencement pomps over, and the quondam students rusticating “sub tegmine fagi” in many a rural home, we seize our pen and dot down a few impartial remarks concerning the acts and actors in the pleasing drama of celebrations on occasion of the Twenty-sixth Annual Commencement of the University of Notre Dame, on the 21st and 22nd of June.
To refresh the memory of those who had the pleasure of being present, as well as to enlighten those who were absent, we will mention the different exercises in order, making such remarks as we think pertinent and proper—hence the programme. Tuesday forenoon..—Solemn High Mass, at G.00 o’clock, A. M., Celebrant, Very Rev. E. Sorin, S. S. C.; Deacon, Rev. IV. Corby, S. S. C.; Subdeacon, Rev. A. Lemonnier, S. S. C; Master of Ceremonies, Rev. D. J. Spillard, S. S. C; Italian Mass of Generali by the Notre Dame Choir; breakfast at 7:30, A. M; reception of the Alumni, and business meeting, 9:00, A. M. Afternoon and Evening.—Banquet of the Alumni, 1:00, P. M.; regatta on Lake St. Joseph, 3:30, P. M; supper 6:00, P. M; Evening entertainment, 7:00, P. M., in Washington Hall, commencing with a Grand Entrance March by the N. D. U. Brass Band; Overture, “Domino Noir," Auber, N. D. U. Orchestra; Grand Cantata of the last Silver Jubilee, Vocalists of Notre Dame ; Greek Speech—“ Oratory”—M. Mahony of the St. Cecilia Pbiloma-thean Society; Latin Address, W. Waldo, of the St. Aloysius’ Philodemic Society; Quartet, brass instruments; Address from the Scientific Department, D. A. Clarke, of St. Edward’s Literary Society ; Address from the Commercial Department by J. C. Eisenman, of St. Edward’s Literary Society; Music, N. D. U. Brass Band.
As the public duties of the year began, it was eminently proper that they should also end with prayer, in thanksgiving to the bountiful Giver ofall good, for continued life, health and strength to carry on to completion the great work so happily, so auspiciously begun twelve months before; and as we beheld the highest and most venerable authorities of the institution offering the Holy Victim at the altar in the name and behalf of all, we felt that such indeed was the true idea of a Christian school!
Though the Italian Mass of Generali is not as pleasing to us as some others of lesser pretensions, yet we must confess that it was rendered with all the elan and precision for which the University Choir is so'justly noted.
The Alumni teceived a warm and hearty reception; aud after some time agreeably spent in mutual recognitions and congratulations, they held a solemn meeting with closed doors for the transaction of “biz”—the precise nature of which we do not feel at liberty to divulge at present, but venture the hint that it was one of importance —calculated to “ring” loud in the future, and make many an ear tingle— dixi. As this,is a
plentiful country wherein every event, from a birth to a burial, is celebrated by a banquet, of course the Alumni had a feast—and such a feast I If you, dear reader, were ever an Alumnus, ’tis needless to describe it; and if not, ’twere utterly impossible—so, giving them two full hours by the clock to do justice to it, let us stroll down to Lake St. Joseph and prepare to take a few notes of the coming regatta.
The picturesque shores were lined by eager crowds of ladies and gentlemen, students, and members of the “ craft” in general; our country’s colors, the glorious “star-spangled banner,” gaily floated from the amphibious boat house; all eyes were turned seaward, and when the “old salts” hove in sight the enthusiasm visibly increased —the sturdy crew of the stately “Santa Maria” and the plucky lads of the graceful “ Pinta” entered the list together to struggle, for the prize— in the present contest a finely chased silver goblet The signal is given—they bend to their oars —brawny arms send the sharp prows through the foaming billows—cheer after cheer rends the air as now these, now those seem to gain on their adversaries—“a long pull, a strong pull, a pull all together” and the jolly tars of the “Santa Maria” sweep past the buoys and cast anchor, amid long and boisterous shouts, cheers and congratulations, the conquered heroes consoling themselves with the thought that they were at least second best, and reflecting that by great good luck they bad in the same boat with themselves Vice-President Lemonnier, the founder of the fleet, who shared at one and the same time the chagrin of the beaten and the joy of the victors.
Safely landed on terra firma, the Band strikes up a lively tune, and all march to the refectory, where, after a bountiful repast, they rest on their oars—laurels we should rather say—till the open ing of the evening entertainment.
Though Washington Hall is of goodly proportions, it could not hold the throngs that eagerly crowded around its classic portals, attracted by the fame of our histrionic societies; hence, as a necessary consequence, the “ first come, first served ” was the order of the night. Many had to take “ back seats,” and standing room, even, was soon precious; while many a poor wight nervously paced the gravelly walks outside, and listened to the martial music of the Band while picturing to himself the charming scenes that delighted the optics of more fortunate Smith aud Brown within!
' And here, once for all, we would say that Prof. M. Boyne of South Bend deserves the unqualified praise of every lover ofsweet sounds, for the pains that he so successfully took during the past year in training the University Brass Band, bringing it, as he did, in a few short months, to such a degree of perfection that it need not fear to compete with any similar organization of twice its age and size. Success is sure to follow conscientious, pains taking labor, especially when, as in the present case, that labor is a labor of love, and the right man in the right place!
The Grand Cantata of last year’s Silver Jubilee, the joint production of Rev. M. B. Brown, S. S. C., and the lamented Prof. Max. Girac, proved a grand success, and the profound silence amid which it was listened to by the cultivated audience showed that it was justly appreciated. The complete success of the Cantata is mainly due to the tireless energy displayed by Rev. M. Muhl-berger, S. S. C, who, though Prof. M. Corby had very ably drilled the vocalists during the year, had many difficulties to surmount, owing to the short time given for preparation.
The Greek speech was well conceived, well written, and well spoken by Mr. M. Mahoney, who well knows how to pour forth the sonorous
sentences of ancient Hellas in Demosthenian periods. Greek is par excellence the language of oratory, far superior to Latin, approached nearest by the stately Castilian or modern Spanish, and we wonder not that its thundering invectives paled the cheek of Philip of Macedon.
IV. Waldo showed by his delicate handling of his Latin Address that the stern, unyielding language of ancient Rome has many a beauty, and at the same time proved himself a worthy representative of the classical and rising young Society of St Aloysius.
D. A. Clarke’s Address from the Scientific Department was very well written and charmingly delivered—the noble subject was beautifully treated and richly deserved the rapturous applause with which it was greeted.
J. C. Eisenman’s Address on Commerce was sound and practical—there was the ring of the “almighty dollar” in it, and that was one reason perhaps, among others, why so many a gray;— bearded, keen-eyed man of business attentively listened. The young gentleman’s enunciation is remarkable for its purity, and the ambitious young St. Edward’s Society has reason to be proud of him as a member.
“William Tell,” a tragedy in three acts, was presented by the members of the Thespian Association, under the direction of Prof. M. T. Corby, A. M., with the following dramatis persona : Gessler, L. B. Logan; Sarnem, John Mulhall; Rudolph, W. H.Murphy; Lutold, E. B. Gambee; William Tell, J. R. Boyd; Albert, J. Sutherland; Melctal, Marcus J. Moriarty; Erni, J. R. Fox; Furst, Jonn Duffy; Verner, Daniel B. Hibbard; Michael, H. P. Morancy; Theodore, T. Dillon; Pierre, F. Kaiser; Hermann, L. F. Wilson; officers, archers, soldiers, villagers, citizens, etc. Music after first and second acts by theN. D.U. Brass Band.
All the overtures were well executed by the Orchestra, led by C. A. B. Von Weller, F. R. A., especially that of “ Wm. Tell,” by Rossini—the low murmur of discontent, the growth of dissatisfaction, the open revolt, the heroical opposition of Tell to tyranny, and finally its complete overthrow were well dipicted, conceived in the true spirit, and ably executed by the “elbows” that bravely fought the stubborn notes in the cause of “ Tell” and liberty!
The scenery of the tragedy was appropriate, the costumes of the actors en regie, aud J. R. Boyd, as Tell, ably supported by his compatriots, gave us by his natural and impressive rendition of the role of the Swiss hero a good idea of the truth of the patriotic remark of Horace, that
M Dulce et decorum est pro patrla mori.”
Tragedies in general are grand, but—fab, that “but”!) gloomy; and when well acted, as in the present case, make us forget that they are not real, fill the soul with sadness and the eyes with tears—but (again!)
“From grave to gay, to lively from severe ” was not forgotten as “ The Benefit of Hanging,” a comedy in one act, by the Thespian Association, was presented with the following dramatis persona-. Old Screw, D. B. Hibbard; Old Nail, John Mulhall; Goliath Spiderlimb, J. A. Fox; Captain Darling, Lawrence Wilson; Giles Sowthistle, H. P. Morancy; Theodore Button, James Sutherland; Old Gammon, F. Kaiser; Old Spinage, T. Dillon ; Music, N. D. U. Brass Band.
Our tears of sadness were soon changed to those of mirth while watching D. B. Hibbard as “ Old Screw ” an unscrupulous, overreaching and finally overreached village attorney, prove the “benefit of banging”. Scarcely had he met the fate that he so richly deserved, when the falling of the curtain ended the play, and with it the scenes of the first day’s entertainment
r • >-
‘.I
166
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
s a 3
Wednesday Forenoon.—Part First.—Breakfast, 7o’clock; Commencement Exercises, 8:30 o’clock; Grand Entrance March, N. D. U. Brass Band; Overture—“ Domino Noir ”—Auber—Orchestra; Address from Law Department, J. A O’Reilly; Duet—“I would that my love”—Mendelssohn— Messrs. A. Riopelle and J. Mulhall; “Hail Columbia,” N. D. U. Brass Band ; “ The Columbian ” L. Hayes, of the St. Cecilia Society; Song—“Sem-iramide”—R. Staley, Joseph J. Rumely, Charles Hutchings, T. Foley, and R. Hutchings; Poem of the Alumni, Prof. A. J. Stace, A M.
Bright and early in the morning the booming of the big bell and the noisy clanging of the “little ones” again filled the Hall to overflowing. The marches, overtures, and songs were, as usual, perfect, asakowasthe beautiful address on“ Law,” by J. A O’Reilly, Esq.
“Columbia,” a patriotic poem composed expressly for him by Rev. Patrick D’Arcy, S. S. C., was well read by Master L. Hayes, of the St. Cecilia Society. If the old saying is true that “the child is father to the man,” young Hayes will yet make his mark in the world of intellect. Some boys from very childhood show signs of the genius slumbering within, which time and circumstances are to awaken to active life; and he is undoubtedly one of that number.
Prof. A J. Stace, A M., the poet of the University, then read “ Our Lady of Lourdes,” the Poem of the day: of it we will merely say en passant that we hope soon to have the pleasure of perusing it at our leisure in the pages of the Ave Maria, a high honor of which it is well worthy.
Part Second.—Overture—“William Tell,” N. D. U. Orchestra; “ The Upstart,” a comedy in three acts, translated from Moliere, and arranged for the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society, of the Junior Collegiate Department, by a member of the Facul ty. Prologue, Scott Ashton; Mr. Jordan, the Upstart, C. Burdel; Old Mr. Jordan, his father, S. Ashton; Cleon, in love with Mr. Joidan’s daughter, T. Foley; Covielle, a valet to Cleon, W. B. Clarke; Doranto, a Count, F. P. Dwyer; Dorimenes, a Marquis, B. Roberts; Signore Profundo, Professor of Philosophy, J. Nash; Signore Bassillo, Music Teacher, R. Staley; Fio-rello, his Pupil, Joseph J. Rumely; Figaro, Dancing Master, C. Hutchings; Jeronimo, Fencing Master, P. Cochrane; Nicholas, a privileged servant of Mr. Jordan, M Mahoney; Ali Bey, the Mufti, J. McGuire; Signore Crispino, D. Brown.
Tradesmen :—Giacomo, J. Dougherty; Paolo C. Forrestal; Beppo, J. Thomson; Pedro, C. Morgan; Baptisto, 1st Footman, J. Kilcoin; Carlo, 2d Footman, C. Ortmayer; Musicians:—Pas-quela,D. Egan; Rigoletto.J. Kinkaed; Filippo, H. A Neill; Poliuto, V. McKinnon. Terpsicho-reans:—Prestolo, K. Espy; Alvina, J. Christy; Rigolo, L. Hayes; Francesco, E. Shea. Turks:— Bourn, Leo McOsker; Fenail, S. Dunn; Robert. H. Gallagher; Bachisaid, L. Roth; Kamyl, H. Ackhoff; Fraud Bob, II. Luhn; Haroun, J. Han-naher; Selim, W. Wilstach. The Dervises:— Abdelkish, F. C. Randall; Alraschid, J. Antoine.
Culled Pussums ” J. Goodhue; J. Shanks.
Grand Turkish Dance, by the actors; Epilogue C. Burdell: March, N. D. U. Brass Band; “ O! Home, Sweet Home”—Address, W. B. Clarke: Quartete—0 Lorenz,R.Staley; Joseph J. Rumely; C. Ortmayer; C. Hutchings; R. Hutchings; T. Foley. Grand Cantata, Vocalists of Notre Dame; Valedictory, A W. Arrington; Music, N. D. U. Brass Band.
Though Julios Cmsar wrote and thought As telegraphic as be fought. And “ c/ni, ridi, cici,'’ fill The world with admiration, still
it is our humble opinion that the best specimen extant of laconic, “ multum in paroo ” speech is the prologue to the comedy of “The Upstart”
which we here copy as a sample of condensed stage writing.
“ We introduce the silliest Upstart of the age;
He comes—be silent all, and guze upon the stage 1 ” of equal brevity, beauty, and merit is the epilogue, which reads as follows:
“Dear friends and patrons, kindly gathered here, We hope to meet you all next year! ”
of the play itself, together with its players, we beg to offer the following criticism which we wrote on the occasion of its first presentation to a Notre Dame audience.
If ever a real Upstart appeared upon our boards and showed, amid peals of laughter, mingled with some few sighs of pity, the folly of his entire race, that upstart was, pro tern., C. Burdell. From being the natural-born big fool that nature made him, the Upstart made himself a greater one by trying to become a “ big bug,” a great personage, un Grand Monsieur, and wound up by figuring as a, if not the Grand Turk! He will have something to answer for in so mercilessly shaking our sides with laughter, and filling our eyes with tears! Would that many of our shoddyites, our “wmt riches" our codfish aristocracy, our leaders of fashion, or self-conceited members of hon ton. were present—(as, alas, they were not!) to learn a lesson of wisdom, and
“See themselves as others see them!”
Burdell’s acting was inimitable, and he was ably seconded by Messrs. Ashton, Foley, Dwyer, Roberts, Nash, Rumely, Hutchings, Cochrane, and others.
We had often read and heard of Moors, but never had the pleasure of seeing any “ in propria persona" till now, when two small specimens of simon pure “cullud pussuns” suddenly burst like two black clouds of personified ugliness upon our astonished gaze. Colored? Shades of Othello, how dark they were! As black as ink, as night, as Erebus,—as—as—certainly they were! How graceful and fair-faced young Shanks became transmogrified into a crooked, grinning little imp of darkness, as hideous as sin and the—satan combined; and how handsome Goodhue, cameleon-like, so suddenly and completely changed his hue to nigrissimus from fairest “Circassian white,” will ever remain the profoundest of mysteries to us! They seemed somewhat ashamed of parading their unearthly ugliness, and visibly trembled before the storm of hoots, hisses, yells and merry shouts that greeted every roll of their ghastly eyes and smirk of their ebony phizes whenever they emerged from the dark corners in which they loved to lurk. They acted their parts like dutiful pages, however, and should feel consoled by the reflection that
"Honor and fame from no condition rise,”
Act well your part; there au. the merit lies.”
“Home, Sweet Home,” a beautiful poem by Coz., 'teas, next spoken by W. B. Clarke, after which followed the Oration of the day by Paul Broder, A. M., a former Professor of the University ; being unavoidably absent during its delivery, we are unfortunately unable to decide personally upon its merits, but hear it highly spoken of by some who were present.
The “ Valedictory,” by A. W. Arrington, was a touching composition, feelingly delivered, and most effectively too, because the natural expression of the sentiments of its author.
Next came the conferring of degrees, solemn distribution of premiums, and awarding of Diplomas in Commercial Department; of prizes in Classical, the Scientific, Commercial and Preparatory Departments; awarding of First and Second Honors.
Palmam, qui meruit, feral! tSAny and beautiful premiums, prizes and honors were conferred—
none, we are confident, that were not well deserved. Among the premiums we noticed some valuable, beautifully bound books—suitable and suggestive tokens of appreciation of literary toils and triumphs. Irish as we are, it gave us no small pleasure to see among them the History of Erin, together with the poems of her talented and lamented historian, bard and .statesman, Hon. Thomas D’Arcy McGee.
The flattering remarks of Rt. Rev. Bishop Bor-gess regarding the progress and high standing of Notre Dame as a literary institution, and his kind words of encouragement to its numerous and talented students, were listened to with profound attention. Here ended the Commencement Exercises of the University, and we thought of our own college days as we watched the joyful meeting of bright boys with proud parents, and noticed the kindling eyes and flushed cheeks of many a happy lad while receiving the sincere congratulations of his friends upon the completion of college laborsand the obtaining of well-earned and highly-prized University honors.
Among the hundreds present, we recognized many, some few of whom we take the liberty of mentioning by name:
Clergy: Rt. Rev. Bishop Borgess, Detroit, Mich ; Very Rev. J. B. Donelan, Adminstiator of the diocese of Dubuque; Rev. F. Limpens, of Detroit, Mich.; Rev.E. B Kilroy, St. Mary’s, Wis; Rev. E. Joos, Monroe, Mich; Rev. E. Vandyke, Adrian, Mich; Rev. R. A. Siedley, Sandusky, Ohio; Rev. II. Beerborst, Grand Rapids, Mich; Rev. A Lebel, Kalamazoo, Mich.; Rev. F. Beck, Michigan City, Ind.; Rev. G. Hamilton, Lafayette, Ind.; Rev. A. Eustace, Lockport, Ill.; Rev. P. Lyons, Chicago, Ill.; Rev. J. Waldron, Chicago, Hi.; Rev. P. Noonan, Chicago, III.; Rev. F. Hannon, Toledo, Ohio; Rev.-----, Delphi Ind.; Rev. T. Sullivan, Laporte, Ind.; Rev. J. .11- Grogan, Chicago, Ills.; Rev. F. Ankley, Wooster, Ohio; Rev. P. Gormley, Chicago, Ill.; Rev. F. Carroll, Chicago, Hl.; Rev. L. Baroux, Dowagiac, Mich.; Rev. John Dinnen, Lafayette, Ind.; Rev. W. Halley, Cleveland, Ohio; Rev. D. McGinnity, Darlington, Wis.; Rev. E. P. Walter, Crawfordsville, Ind.; Rev. A Oechtering, Mishawaka, Ind ; Rev. H. Oechtering, Elkhart, Ind.; Rev. T. Mah mey, Cleveland, Ohio; Rev. P. Doyle, Chicago, Ill.
Among the laity: Hon. P. B. Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio; Hon. Judge Stanfield, South Bend, Ind.; Hon. Judge Daly, Delphi, Ind.; Hon. J. J. McKinnon and lady, Chicago, Ill.; P. A. Moran and lady, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. Judge Arrington, Chicago, HL; Mrs.’ Senator Boyd, Paducah, Ky.; Mrs. J. Wile, Laporte, Ind.; Mr. J. Mulhall and lady, St. Louis, Mo.; T. Shea, Esq., Milwaukee, Mrs. Shanks, Milwaukee, Wis.; Hon. Claude Rio-pelle, Detroit, Mich.; T. B. Miller, Peru, Ind.; J. V. Clarke, Chicago, Hl.; P. L. Garrity and lady, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. Quan, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. M. Foote, Burlington,Iowa; Mrs. Lieut. Col. Walker, St Paul, Minn.; J. Blain, Chicago, Hon. D. O’Hara, and lady, Chicago, HL; J. W. Twobig and lady, Chica go, Hl.; Mrs. Taylor, Chicago, 111.; Miss Hayes, Chicago, HL; L. Eisenman, Esq, Louisville, Ky.; John Clarke, Esq., Columbus, Ohio; Dr. Cunningham, Chicago, HL; E. Brown, Esq., Buffalo, N. Y.; W. J. Onahan, Esq., Chicago, HL; P. Forrestal, Philadelphia, Pa.; Mr. John D’Arcy, Joliet, 111.; W. A. Green, Esq., Gen’l Pass. Ag't, Illinois Central, R. R., Chicago.
Among the alumni were present Capt. 0. T. Chamberlain, attorney at law, Elkhart, Ind.; 8. B. Hibben, Wilmington, Ohio.; J. Healey, attorney at law, Elgin, Ill.; T. Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio; John Fitzgibbon, Chicago, III.; T. B. Miller, Peru, Ind.; James A. O’Reilly, Reading, Pa.; Prof Paul Broder, Beloit, Wis.
But while we stand idly here, gazing upon the


9
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
167
(I
varied scene, and dreaming of the days of Auld lang syne, the surging crowd are hurrying off with eager pace—whither ? to St. Mary’s Academy. This only a ten minutes walk, through verdant fields by a path shaded by overarching trees—we follow, and soon enter the hallowed precincts of St. Mary’s, a report of whose exhibition we leave to an abler pen than ours.
P. D.
[ For the “ Notre Dame Scholastic.]
Circular of the “.Notre Dame Union enterprise.”
The students of the University of Notre Dame having organized themselves into an association under the name and title of the “ Notre Dame Union Enterprise,” deem it necessary to place their motives and purposes before the public, ^and especially before the many friends and patrons of the Institution.
The sole object of this organization is to raise sufficient funds to build the to-wer of the new church just commenced at the University, and to purchase and place in the tower a grand chime of seventy-two bells.
In order to realize our idea, which is primarily for the honor and glory of God, and that those who aid us may not co-operate without some kind of a compensation for their services or contributions in so laudable an undertaking, we offer, to those who may assist us, ten valuable considerations. Our friends may rely upon it, that the subscriber or contributor who ought to get any one of the articles hereinafter mentioned, shall have it as a compensation for his or her contributions, as soon as the right thereto shall have been determined upon by our special committee of rewards.
Consider our object and our intentions, if you please, and help us to add one more gem to the crown of generosity which so peculiarly distinguishes the American student in responding to the claims of his Aina .Water. We are enthtisi-astically determined to accomplish this object, and to leave behind us a monument of esteem and gratitude for our Alma Wafer which shall speak for our devotion to her, over these broad prairies and by the banks ot the historic St. Joseph to future generations, when we shall have passed away, and when the flourishing and prosperous city of South Bend shall cast the shadows of its buildings into the bounds of the no less flourishing and prosperous University of Notre Dame. We most earnestly ask your assistance, kind reader, and that you may see we arc in earnest, wc guarantee to the subscriber or contributor who shall have earned it, some one of the following named articles, which at our earnest request have been place at our disposal by the administration at Notre Dame. They are worth working for:—
First—The present chime of twenty-three bells;
value
§9,000 00
Second—A large town clock; yalue... .§900 00 Third.—2k lot of ground in the city of Lafayette,
Ind.; value
§300 00
A. lot of ground in the city of Lnfay-
Fourth.—.! ette, Ind.
value
.§300 00
Fifth.—A masterpiece Madonna from Rome.
Sixth.—A splendid St. Mary Magdalene, pronounced by Pius IN., when holding it in his hands, to be “ beautiful!”
Seventh.—An imported telescope; value, §t00 00
Eighth.—A gem of statuary representing the Blessed Virgin resting under a palm tree, during her journey into Egypt.
Ninth.—A magnificent Haydock Bible; value,
§50 00
Tenth.—A massive Parisian statue of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart.
Single subscription,50 cents; but each subscriber may give as many such subscriptions as he pleases, and will be entitled to a receipt for as many subscriptions as the single subscription is contained in the whole amount he may subscribe. We also offer the following inducements:
1st. The seventy-two bells to bear the names of their sponsors, a gentleman and a lady to each, the largest bell having for sponsors the largest subscribers, and descending progressively to the last, after the same method.
2d. Every subscriber of at least ten dollars to have his name engraved on some bell of the chime; the largest one bearing the name or the names of as many of the largest subscriptions as will cover its cost, &c.
3d. All the sponsors, viz., seventy-two gentlemen and seventy-two ladies, to receive a splendid Diploma—3 feet by 2, engraved in Paris— “in memory of the event,” and as a noble family record that such a family was one of the chief donors of the grandest chime in the world, erected at Notre Dame in 1870.
4th. That every student of Notre Dame’who has spontaneously entered his name among the chief originators of the grand enterprise shall be entitled to the grateful memory of the association, and that the seventy-two most successful ones shall receive an appropriate Diploma testifying the same.
5th. The students or friends who will canvass for the chime and tower of Notre Dame, will report to the General Secretary the subscriptions they have received; and the General Secretary shall enter upon the general book the names of the subscribers as they come in, and acknowledge to the parties the receipt of the amount and the exact order of the places they are entitled to on the general list. This certificate will be a receipt enabling the proprietor to claim, when the transaction is closed, any considerations to which he may be entitled.
.	PROF. FOOTE,,
President.
J. E. S HANNAHAN, F. P. DWYER.
Vice Presidents.
D. A. CLARKE,
Recording Secretary.
J. M. GEARIN, W. B. CLARKE,
Cor. Secretaries. BRO. EDWARD,
Genl. Treasurer and Secretary.
Notice —Books are opened for subscriptions at the general office, Notre Dame, Indiana.
St. Mary’s Academy.
I had the pleasure of being present at the closing exercises and exhibition of St. Mary’s Academy I say the pleasure, for though it is becoming rather a favorite theme for such old ones as I am, who have been present I will not say how many years past at several college commencements and academy exercises every year, to grumble somewhat at their length, or at the warm weather, yet I must admit in my heart, and here publicly proclaim that it was a pleasure to be at St. Mary's. And I shall prove it, if you have any music in your soul,—prove it so clearly that you would say I had no music im my soul had I not taken great pleasure.
Now, I am not going into rhapsodies about what I saw and heard,—but I shall thoughtfully and briefly tell you what I did see and hear. Do
you love music* Do you like to hear evidences of talent and improvement?
If you say “yes,” then listen to what I have to tell you about music.
I like music. I can sit down and listen even to a young beginner who sometimes gets astray, or skips over a hard passage, or, which is worse, muffles it. But that must be in the drawingroom and very small doses. At an exhibition of musical talent in an academy for young ladies, I want: 1. Good Music; S.Excellent execution. On the afternoons of the,16ih, 17th and 18th of June I had both.
Those three delightful afternoons were devoted to the reunions of the pupils of the First and Second Classes of Instrumental Music. The one hundred and thirty pupils of the lower Classes had passed a creditable examination during the preceding days.
Briefly as may be, I give you the programme, and will pass my remarks on the players, and occasionally on the music. You will perceive from the names of the pieces that the music was first-class ; and if you take my word for it, the playing was worthy of the music.
Archer’s “La Facorita" was rendered by Miss M. Walton with great clearness and precision, the wrist motion being perfect.
Cramer’s “ Last Idea of Weber ” was played with much sweetness and sympathy by Miss A. Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio.
Mason’s “Silver Spring" was given by Miss M. Kirwin with all the purling of limpid waters. This young lady excelled in retaining every arpeggio subordinate to the humming melody.
Prudent’s “ Lucia di Lammermoor,” played by Miss Sherland, was worthy of every commendation. What was particularly noticeable was the accuracy with which she united the even time of the left hand with the uneven groups and sexto-lets of the right	'
Ascher’s arrangement of ‘'La Semiramidef which is one of his most difficult pieces, was carried out to his fullest intentions by Miss A Mulhall.
“ Lucretia Borgia," by Goria, was given with power and brilliancy by Miss C. Foote. Too much stress cannot be laid upon this young lady’s octave execution, and I can truly say that it exceeded anything of the kind I have ever heard from any young lady of her age.
Rossini’s “ Charite," transcribed by Liszt, played by Miss C. Davenport, was a perfect gem. Anyone acquainted with the vocal trio could not fail to distinguish the three voices prominent through all the intricacies of Liszt’s classical arrangement
Though these youug ladies gave a treat to charm the ear, they were surpassed by three others, who each received a gold medal as graduates in music.
The first who received a .Medal was MissEditha A Lilly, whoperformedMendelssohn’s Grand Concerts in G. Woll, Op. 25. This classical work—and the style in which it was given—was the crowning point of the examination. Miss Lilly possesses a thorough knowledge of music and harmony, an electric technique, added to the high appreciation of the soul and spirit of great compositions, which was manifested particularly in the andante movement of the Concerto. The singing notes were rendered as purely and clearly as though struck by another hand on another instrument. Next, the fine Crescendo given with such gradual power, and the Diminuendo sinking with equal delicacy. The rapidi ty and accuracy of the Presto movement were in no way inferior to the foregoing. Miss Lilly has often been compared to Miss A Topp by competent judges who have heard that charming artist.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The second who received the graduating Meda was Miss F. Arrington, daughter of the late Judge Arrington of Chicago,—she played Chopin’s Polonaise,” Opus 26. No. 2. It is unnecessary to speak of the merits of this well-known composition. Miss Arrington played it with great power and in graceful style; it was evident that she had been an arduous and careful student, and may well wear with honor the splendid medal presented to her.
The third medal was awarded to Miss E. Longs, dorf, who played Thal berg’s Grand Fantasia. She is evidently a careful and zealous student; not a single slipped note nor a bar of incorrect time could be distinguished through this difficult and grand composition.
Enough of the exercises of the 16th, 17th and 18tb—though I could mention many other young ladies whose proficiency in music was a mark of their own talent and application, and of the thoroughness with which music is taught at Saint Mary’s. Before proceeding to the exercises of the last day, however, I would congratulate the teachers of this institution upon three points: 1. The pupils are made to understand and keep time; 2. They are taught a correct touch and the proper use of the pedal; 3. And last though not least, they are imbued with a thorough appreciation of the merits of the works and the intentions of the composers.
But if you like music certainly you are fond of singing, or of hearing others sing. The Department of Vocal Music at St. Mary’s is no way behind the Instrumental. It has been for the past two years under the direction of Miss L. Smythe, a European lady whose musical studies were pursued under the direction of the most eminent men of Europe. It is enough to say that Garcia and Corrodi were her instructors for some years. During her residence at St. Mary’s her time and attention have been exclusively devoted to the pupils of the Academy, and her labors have been marked with signal success. Judging by the exercises of the 23d, her culture of the voice is incomparable. The young vocalists acquitted themselves admirably, and the beautiful ballads, duets, bravuras, songs, choruses and concerto pieces I heard are to be long remembered. On the 23d the hall was crowded by the friends of the institution, some of whom arrived that morning from"their distant homes, while others had remained over after attending the college exercises at Notre Dame the day before.
Right Rev. Bishop Borgess, of Detroit, presided over the exercises, and quite a number of reverend gentlemen from Michigan, Ohio, Illinois and Indiana were present. All these, and the im-•mense crowd, expressed their surprise at the perfect intonation; time and execution of the young vocalist I spoke of above, and the critical listener could at once perceive that great attention must have been paid during the year to scales of solfeggios, and vocal exercises.
To particulars.
I shall pass over the grand march from Athalia, by Mendelssohn, which was played as the young pupils entered two by two and took the seats assigned to them. I have already said enough to convince you that the instrumental part of this day was excellent, as of course the best performers were chosen.
After the Recitative and Aria (from Handel’s Oratorio of Jeptha, rendered by Miss Smythe, the Premiums were awarded to the pupils of the Preparatory and Junior Departments. Had I not so many facts to state I would here give you my opinion of the general arrangement of this Distribution of Premiums, I have been at some in which
the distribution came after two or three, sometimes more, hours of speeches, music, essays and plays,— when, no matter how pleased they may have been, the audience was pretty well fagged out, and all save the parents hurried out of the hall. But here the Distribution was considered the main object, and the music and plays as very agreeable occasions which I consider the right light to take the matter in. But I will not dw’ell on this though it is a subject for the pious consideration of all academies and colleges. '
It would take a book to inscribe the names of pupils who received premiums. I will send you the Catalogue for your own use,—if I have excited your curiosity you can fully satisfy it.
It was a pleasant sight indeed to see the little girls—there are little girls at St. Mary’s, as well as young ladies—tripping down from their seats to the place occupied by the Right Rev. Bishop, and receiving their “reward ” from him. Though I do not go to the full extent of Mr. Turvytop in his views of “ Deportment,” still I am sure everyone was pleased with the graceful and modest manners of the little girls, and mentally said that attention had been bestowed upon f-em in this. To finish the subject, I may add that the gracefulness and modesty of demeanor was as remarkable in the young ladies of the higher classes as in the little Juniors.—But I digress uselessly,— of course this was so; as it is in every well-conducted Catholic Academy.
After this distribution of premiums the Juniors came, the Grand Chorus from Martha, given by fifty-six voices. It was full and effective. I can mention only one singer, Miss Wood, whom I would like to compliment for the artistic style in which she rendered the soprano role. She has a voice of great sweetness and good compass striking D in alt with perfect ease. Her great flexi. bility of voice showed itself more particularly in the solo. (Swiss Boy, with variations, by Pixio.)
Two of the series of Essays by graduates were then read by Miss Agnes Ewing and her sister Eleanor. I have not the heart to dissect and analyze these or the following Essays—nor would you have the space to grant me, nor, in fine, would your readers thank me. To have one of my years take apart the beautiful production of the combined good sense, natural talent, acquired science, charming imagination’, and pure and elegant diction of young lady graduates would be simply preposterous, and would give satisfaction to nobody.
Besides, the Right Rev. Bishop in a few concise pithy remarks summed them all up; and if, in the proper place, I can recall a skeleton of his remarks, O I will give them, and from his words of commendation you may gather that music is not the only blanch to which special care and attention are given at St. Mary’s.
These first Essays were followed by a Bravura, by Centenneri, sung by Us Walton. I was sur prised to hear that this young lady had been-studying music but one year; her roulades were clear and perfect, and her trills like a bird’s.
Two other graduates, Miss Cunnea and Miss Mulhall, having read their essays,—of which more anon,—Miss Carrie Davenport, who for years past has charmed with her sweet voice and gentle manners the audiences of St. Nary’s, electrified them this time, by her rendering of the touching and beautiful Italian song from Imartiri. Her voice is a mezzo-soprano of rare quality, and her execution not mechanical but full of soul and expression ; add to this her dignity and modest composure, and you will not accuse me of undue enthusiasm when I say she was the center of all admiration.	'
While theechoesof MissDavenport’s voice were yet resounding in the souls of lovers of good music, under its influence the premiums were given to the young ladies of the graduating Class.
Again I must refer you to the accompanying Catalogue, and come to the close of the first part of this Distribution of Premiums, which was closed by a quartet, “The Lord is my Shepherd,” by Schubert, sung by Miss Lindsay, Miss Davenport, Miss Walton and Miss Foote. AU accquainted with this choice piece of music must acknowledge that it is one of no ordinary difficulty.
The young ladies of the senior Classes then received their premiums, after which the second part was concluded by an operetta, prepared principally to suit the popular taste and was very prettily caroied out. “Lilia, or the Lost Child,” was the name of the operetta. This was followed by a melo-drama, the prologue to which was most effectively delivered by Miss Gross, of Philadelphia, a little girl who pleased all no less by her winning manners than by the intelligence manifested in all she did.
I need dwell on neither the operetta nor melodrama, for doubtless all others who write about this distribution will make them the chief points of their theme.
This was followed by the grand overture of William Tell played as a quartet, on two pianos. Having al ready spoken of the ability of the young pianists, it is unnecessary to say anything further than that the overture was rendered splendidly.
I now come to the most interesting part of the Distribution, that is, the conferring of Graduating Honors. You will find the names of those who received the Honors in the Catalogue; I have room to give only the graduates, they were:
Misses Agnes Ewing, Eleanor Ewing, Genevieve Arrington, Alice Carmody, Agnes Mulhall, Annie Cunnea, Caroline Bertrand. Emma Kirwan.
Between the awarding of Medals to the graduates, and of Honors to the Seniors and Juniors, the Duet from Compana, was sung by Miss Smythe and her charming pupil Miss Davenport. It is saying very little to state that it far surpassed many a peice we have heard sung on the public stage or in the concert room.
For the Awarding of Honors to the young ladies of the Senior and Junior Departments we must refer you to the Catalogue, that we may have time to speak of the last piece of vocal music.
Mendelssohn’s “Hymn of Praise” most appropriately closed this classic and interesting entertainment. All were delighted with it. Had you been there you would have taken pleasure to notice the artistic working out of the parts, the accuracy with which the piano and pianissimo passages were observed, as well as the crescendo, and you would have heartily congratulated the young ladies’ proficiency and progress, as we now do; and you would have heartily recomended them to continue in this course as faithfully as they have hitherto done, especially as the rewards they received for other branches of study showed that when they go home they can not only enliven sweet home with music, but can adorn it with their virtues and solid acquirements.
It was our intention to give this week to the readers of the Scholastic the beautiful historic Poem “ Gaston de Foix,” by Prof. A. J. Stace, A M., of the Notre Dame Associated Alumni, but a press of pre arranged matter obliges us to defer its publication till the next number.
It was originally published together with much other interesting matter, in the second edition of Prof. Lyons’ “ Silver Jubilee,” an elegant, gilt edge book of 344 pages 8vo., and is for sale at the students’ office, Notre Dame, $2 50 per copy. .
(