Votre Dame Scholastic.
JOisce quasi semper victui'iis; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 15, 1879.
Number 28.
The Youth and Father Time.
i.
“Ah ! Time, the woes of life Fall heavy on thy head;
Behold the grief of manhood’s strife, Behold the millions dead I
“ Our Fathers felt thy breath, That chilled the rosy day;
Our Mothers knew the pace of Death, And wept thy fatal sway !
“0, Master, hast thou nought To answer for thy deeds ?
In vain has man thy mercy sought, In vain still intercedes ? ”
Thus questioned I of Time On drear December’s close;
His dying son in trembling rhyme, His thoughts did thus dispose :
“Judge not, dear youth, so hard , The deeds of Father Time;
Full gladsome gifts are his award, And pain but comes of crime.
“ Nor takes he unawares
Or health, or youth, or charms; In bitter grief his bounty shares, In loss his love alarms.
•“ One lock is flowing wild Upon his ancient"head;
This may you grasp, and like a child Old Father Time is led.”
ii.
Then sighed the dying Year:—
“ It is my Father’s call,—
The winds are moaning far and near, My hours are growing small.
“ The New Year slips along, I feel his killing breath, My limbs are weak, his grasp is strong,— Oh, Time! and‘is this death!”
“ Fear not, mine honored son, Thy father stands beside, Whose days, like thine, are nobly done, In glory shall abide.
“ Return, but not to die, Old Time but bears thee home;— And thou. New Year, his place supply, While seasons go and come.
“ Give man thy days and nights, For labor and for rest, With morn and eve, for pleasant sights, T9 gulden Mg
“ And months of frost and snow, To nerve his soul for strife;
Springtime, and Bummer’s ardent glow, To bless the land with life.
“Let every season run Its blessed course along, In gentle change from one to one, A sweet, inspiring song.
“ Stretch out the pleasant hours When Summer smiles in June;
And still while awful Winter lowers, Let morning rest till noon.
“ Nor close the golden course Till Earth is glad with fruit, Till man has won and nature’s force Yields to his fond pursuit.
“ Give youth and graver age Long days for duty’s need, While pleasure’s hours their cares assuage, When the restful moments speed.
“ But take no care for drones, Let them still lag far behind, While sloth weighs down the weary bones, And deadens more the mind.
“ Thy hours are given for men, For those that prize their worth,— And ne’er again, ah, ne’er again, Those hours shall bless the Earth 1
“Farewell 1 the midnight stroke Is sounding through the halls.— Arise, Old Year, thy varying cloak
Upon thy brother falls.”
m.
And then a rushing sound
I heard along the floors:
Old Time had changed the years around And sought his secret shores.
The New Year paced the halls, A youthful, godlike form;
His snowy robe around him falls, To change when seasons warm.
I sought my morning rest, To dream of Father Time, And quietly his name I blest, While rang the New Year’s .chime.
—Frederick the Great, conqueror as he was, sustained a severe defeat at Coslin in the war of 1755. Some time after, at a review, he jocosely asked a soldier who had got a deep cut in his cheek, “Friend, at what alehouse did you get that scratch ?” “I got it,” said the soldier, “ At Gosling ^jiere your Majesty pai4 fee reckoning,” - '
438	-	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Nature, and. Nature’s God.
Nature presents us everything in so admirable a manner, —all things in it have so charming an appearance, are in such order, in so perfect an agreement, each so well adapted for constituting something at once simple, undivided, and whole, that we are never tired of admiring, of contemplating, and of meditating upon their truly transcendent beauties.
Nature is to us, indeed, a wide field of science—a field over which we may rove at pleasure and at leisure, drinking in, as it were, lessons of wisdom, and nourishing our souls with good thoughts and heavenly contemplations; for who can look upon her, dressed, as she may be, in her richest attire, and not feel himself—his soul, his thoughts—raised to that God who is the Author of life, of creation—the primary Cause, the first and the last End of every existence ?
But, notwithstanding this, there is a class of men who become so infatuated with the concord, the harmony and the beauty of the spheres, that they quite forget the Author of creation—Him who brought all things from nothing—and totally lose themselves in the consideration of physical objects, and in the contemplation of nature’s charms, never thinking perhaps that all the objects of their admiration are centred in an eminent manner in Him who is the Author of all good. •
God is, indeed, the centre of all goodness, the fountain of all happiness, the source whence eminates the beautiful, the sublimf,—all perfections, all bliss. He is the One in whom all things have their existence,—whatever they possess,—and on whose creative act they depend, for the reason that the creative act of God is continuous in its nature, and so creates us and all other existences from nothing every moment of our lives. Hence those who, in place of seeing God in everything—of looking upon Him as a Being of infinite majesty, power, and perfection—of accustoming themselves to see in Him supereminently, whatever tends to the beautifying and perfecting of the visible universe— content themselves with beholding everything with corporal eyes,—in a manner that excludes every notion of the supernatural,—cannot b}r any means see or realize the extent of the real beauties and perfections that may be found in His works.
Who, for instance, that does not acknowledge that man is composed of a body and a spiritual and immortal soul can have anything like a correct idea of this wonderful creation ? Who, again, that does not admit the inspiration of the Bible, along with the necessity of having an infallible interpreter of it, can know anything about the exalted state in which our first parents were placed immediately after their creation ? We read in Genesis, i, 26, that man is made to the image and likeness of God—Faciamushominem ad imaginem el simditudinem nostrum; and again in Ecclesiastes, vii, 30: Solummodo hoc invent, quod fecerit Deus homi-nem rectum—“ Only this I have found, that God made man right” These passages of Holy Scripture tell us in unmistakable terms what kind of a being man really is, and the state in which he was before his fall; and, belter than all else, they give us an idea of his nobility, his excellence, and worth. To create the sun, with all its train of attendant planets—to create the animals that roam the plains, the fishes that swim in the waters, the fiat of the Almighty was sufficient. But for the creation of man there was a consultation, at it were, between the three Per-
of the Most Adorable Trinity, ajjd heuQQ th?'words’.
“ Let Us make man,” etc. Who then that does not fully realize the importance of the foregoing words can behold in man those distinguishing marks that make him a “ a little less than the angels ” ? Who, again, that does not believe in future punishments or rewards—in meriting or demeriting in the life to come—can attach the requisite importance to a life of virtue and honor, or duly appreciate it ? Is it not too often the case that men who thus believe, or rather persuade themselves to believe in this way, lead a life so natural, so inconsistent with the state they are placed in by God, and so much resembling that of the lower animals, that we sometimes are incited to look upon rational existence as something at once strange and difficult to analyze? On looking around us we behold with surprise, not far from astonishment, the brute creation leading a life in every way consistent with itself, each species of animals having its own peculiar mode of existing—of living a life that is best adapted to its nature and wants; but man, the most noble of all—a rational being—pursues for the most part such a different course, living a life the very opposite of that which God wants him to live, that were we to look upon him with no other assistance than what is innate, we would in all probability have a curious notion of him—of ourselves; and'would so imagine ourselves to be something the very opposite of what we are; we would be « ignorant of our superiority and lordship over all animal life, as also the place which we hold in the sight of Him to whose image and likeness we are made.
But at this juncture a serious thought might fltsh across our minds; it might occur to us whether we are really so important, so far above animal life as we are inclined to believe; do we not often see and feel that we are very weak, very inferior in some respects to even the beasts of the plain? do those latter creatures not surpiss us in swiftness, strength, endurance, etc. ? AU this is certain, because their mode of subsisting is very different from ours. We were destined by God to lead a social life, to live in society, etc., etc., and thus there is such a space between us as to constitute us something entirely different both as regards our end, which is a supernatural one, and our constitution, which is rational. Hence we may see that our natural faculties are insufficient of themselves to establish firmly in our minds, so as to last, the true idea of God or of His works; and so it may be said that reason gives us but the beginning of this idea; something else is required for its completion. By the beauty, order, etc., which we find in the works of nature we are raised up to the contemplation of a Supreme Being, One that sways the heavens in His hands and rules over all things in an admirable and perfect manner, and by this latter act or consideration we are ag lin enabled to look upon created things in a clearer light and trace out, a thousand-and-one distinguishing qualities that before were hidden from us; our souls are impressed more deeply with their transcendent beauty, grandeur, and sublimity; we behold with wondering eyes the image of the S »vereign Lord stamped upon them, and thus are rendered capable of appreciating their goodness, and the power of Him whom they unceasingly proclaim.	'
It is truly the Christian soul that takes in at one grasp the power of God manifested in His works; it is the Christian soul, too, who penetrates their mysteries, unveils their obscurity, and seems to get a glance at the very manner in which they were produced from nothing, as also how they are §u§taine4 and goyerped, . gence we may see that
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	439
nearer we approach to God, the more facility we have for , fully understanding everything connected with the world around us; while, on the contrary, the more we estrange ourselves from the Author of life, the Creator of whatever exists, the less is the beauty, order and harmony that we see in His works. Our senses are of too gross a nature to produce upon our soul a sense of the sublime and beautiful, and consequently we must always fall far short of catching that something which so enhances the beauty of the most insignificant of God’s creatures.
But notwithstanding God’s manifestation to man, how many there are of the human family estranged altogether from Him, and never think of returning once more to His truth and knowledge! They are content, it seems, with the world, its pleasures, and whatever may be had in it, and so look no more to anything supernatural; nature, in their sense of the term, becomes their all, nor do they care to rise any higher, cr “look through nature up to nature’s God.” Indeed we, Christians, feel sorry for the sad fate of those poor mortals who pass their lives in such a degraded condition as never to raise themselves, their souls, or their thoughts to the contemplation of the one eternal and true God.
All men, it is true, have some kind of an idea of a Being higher, nobler, and more powerful than themselves, but with many this is all. Hence it should be the aim of every true follower of Christ to do his utmost in bringing those who do not absolutely refuse to receive the doctrine of Christianity, to a knowledge of the true Faith and the light of the Gospel of peace. Christians, one and all, should remember that were they themselves in a similar condition—they would feel grateful for having drawn out of the superstition and blindness that ingulf so large a portion of the human race; they should remember, too, that were they left to themselves, without any other means of finding out and knowing who God is and what He requires of them save the light of reason which is within them, and which so easily becomes dimmed by the circumstances in which they might be placed, it would be very difficult, for them to find out God, or have a correct idea of that Supreme Being who has so admirably fashioned the universe,'and whose omnipotence He has stamped thereon. Hence they might consider themselves inclined to look upon things in a far different light from that in which they now find them, and might, perhaps, be content with what they saw and beheld with corporal eyes rather than trace all effects to their cause, a cause which it would be so easy to lose sight of when the admiration of the works of nature would be only in question.
It is thus, indeed, we ought to reason in regard to those creatures before alluded to, and so do our best to bring them to a light of the Gospel of Christ, in order that they may know the God and Saviour whose children they are.
. But while we render what assistance we can to those who are steeped in the darkness of paganism, we should pray for and pity those who, although they may have received a good education, and a religious training from, perhaps, the lips of pious parents, follow their own blinded notions so far as to deny that on which is based all our hopes and aspirations, Christianity itself. It is, indeed, sad to think of a man going so far beyond the path of rectitude as to mock every form of religion, ridicule morality and virtue, deny the existence of either hell or heaven, and also strive to persuade himself and others that there is no God. We jnay perhaps shudder St such d thought, but nevertheless
it is true; scattered all over the world are Nihilists, Materialists, Pantheists, Atheists, and others of a like tenor, who all either directly or indirectly deny the existence of that Being whom nature itself proclaims. The poet says:
“ The heavens declare Thy glory, Lord!
Which that alone can fill;
The firmament and stars express Their great Creator’s skill;
The dawn of each returning day Fresh beams of knowledge brings;
From the darkest night’s successive winds, Divine instruction springs :
Their powerful language to no realm Or region is confined ;
’Tis nature’s voice, and understood Alike by all mankind.”
Yet, in spite of all this—notwithstanding the many ways in which God manifests Himself, and has manifested Himself to us, those aforesaid classes of illogical unbelievers may be found; and not only this, but they have the daring effrontery to spread their erroneous opinions far and wide, in order, of course, to make themselves the better known by the holding of this strange doctrine, and also to see themselves leaders of diabolical factions. But we, for the most part, treat such persons with contempt, laugh at their follies and their daring presumption in attempting to overturn everything in the divine, and consequently in the natural order, for to the establishment of their own blind opinions.
If we are forced to smile when reading the ancient authors on account of the many silly passages we meet with, should we not be compelled to laugh when reading the pages of modern authors (we need not mention their names) who reject everything of the supernatural order, and tell us that we ourselves are just as good as anything else they know of, and that we have only to keep ourselves quiet and be not afraid of either hell or heaven, because the former does not exist, and the latter of course we need not be afraid of, even if it does exist. We may, too, according to this teaching, follow our natural inclinations while in this world, as we shall not be punished for our actions in the next; and if we be rewarded—well, that’s all right. Now, is this not fine “ doctrine ” for divines of the nineteenth century? But they receive a handsome salary for it, just because it suits.
This is downright infidelity, and it is all the more dangerous as it assumes a form so well calculated to deceive men and lead them to the very brink of destruction. Men, indeed, seem at the present day to be actuated by a spirit dangerous to society and to religion; and notwithstanding that their theories are revolting to reason—notwithstanding the manner in which they oppose themselves to the laws of God and of His Church—notwithstanding that society itself is threatened by their daring assaults, they are fast gaining ground, rapidly spreading their poisonous and diabolical opinions, and unless something is done to check their onward course we have reason to fear the worst. Already we have in our midst men who believe nothing,— who deny, or at least doubt, everything in revealed religion. The very existence of their God and Creator they call in question; they deny the Divinity of His only-begotten Son, and doubt whether there was ever such a person as Christ, although even from a historical point of view there shonld not remain a shadow of doubt. Now all this arises from the natural way in which men wish to live. They must §ee, feel, and touch everything, otherwise it is nothing to
•> *
440	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
them. They dare not think of hell, or any kind of future punishment, because it would restrain their evil inclinations, and be a check to the perpetration of the most wicked, inhuman and unnatural acts.
But let us retrace our steps a little. It may, perhaps, appear to some that this free-and-easy kind of teaching, if it may be so termed, is best suited to the wants of the times, and not in any way inconsistent with the order in which God has been pleased to put us, or with what He expects of us as His creatures. It may not, perhaps, appear to them that in its mildest form there is aimed, more than indirectly, a blow at the denial of Christianity, and the undermining of its very foundations. For if people can do just as they please, overrule Divine and human laws, violate with impunity the laws of God, His Commandments, and those of His Holy Church, then those laws and Commandment would have no sanction; they would be but mere idle words, and the object or end of the Incarnation and Death of our Divine Lord would be frustrated; Christianity would be a meaningless something, the religion of a set of fanatics, guided, to say the least, in a strange and wonderful manner,—guided by neither faith, reason, nor common sense.
Now the Incarnation is the foundation of Christianity, the centre around which all the other dogmas of the Church revolve. Hence, by denying its necessity, its end, or aim, the whole frame-work of religion, the whole and mighty structure of Christianity tumbles to the ground. Now this is exactly striven to be accomplished by preaching, teaching, or adhering to any of the opinions quoted above; the curse of God is brought upon the world, and man becomes a most ungrateful, hard-hearted, and contaminated wretch.
But let us see what proof those persons have for their assertions. There is no dogma of the Christian Faith so clearly established and laid down in Scripture as the dogma of the Incarnation of the Son of God; there is scarcely a page in the Old and the New Testaments that has not something referring to it, and this no doubt is a special proof of the condescension of a good and bounteous Lord. St John wrote his Gospel expressly to confirm this, and put it beyond all doubt in the minds of men. Now the end of the Incarnation was, as we may learn from the book of Genesis, iii, 15, as also from many other passages of Holy Writ, the rehabilitation of the human race, the taking away of sin, both original and actual, and the communication of grace and of spiritual life to man; hence St. Luke, xix, 10. says: “For the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which was lost”—Venit Filins hominis quoerere et salvum facere quod perierat. Christ, then, came to redeem fallen man, to give him a new dispensation, and to open heaven to him. All this He did in a manner worthy of Himself, and most pleasing to His Eternal Father. He proved beyond the least shadow of doubt that He was Christ, the Messias, the Redeemer promised by God to our first parents immediately after their fall. In Him were all the prophecies of the Old Testament concerning the Messias fulfilled, and in Him and through Him was accomplished and effected the redemption of mankind. That Christ proved Himself God is beyond all dispute. He calls Himself God, and to prove His assertion does the works of God, and is also exhibited as God, as the Son of the Most High, both by the prophets and evangelists.
That Christ is also true man is proved from many passages of Scripture. In John, viii, 40, we read: “But now you geek tQ JdlJ $ paaq ^ho Ji$ve pppkeii the truth |o * • * ’ ’ ’ ' .«"«•*» ' '
you, which I have heard from God.” And, again, in th first chapter of this same evangelist, we read: Et Verbum caro factum est, et habitavit in nobis. In St. Paul’s Epistle to the Galatians, iv, 4, we have these words: Misit Deus Filium suum factum ex muliere. But there should be no need of quoting passages of Scripture for those who profess to adhere so closely to the Bible, and who make it their sole rule of faith (if they have any), interpreting it, however, according to their own individual notions—according to their own individual way of thinking and reasoning. The Bible is indeed all to them, and again the Bible is nothing to them. All the isms go to it for their respective tenets; thus making it a book suitable to every religion and to no religion. The very same text that one of the so-called divines quotes in order to the establishing of his erroneous opinions, another uses for the establishing of his opinions as equally erroneous and perhaps just the opposite. And so those men would have God leave us in such a chaos, groping our way in the dark, without even a beacon or light by which we might keep clear of the shoals and rocks and reefs of the tempestuous ocean of life. In this case God would have commanded us to hear His Church, but at the same time would have given us no means of finding which is that Church, among the many that lay claim to the title. He would, again, have promised to abide with His Church until the consummation of the world, command her visible Head on earth to confirm his brethren in the faith, and at the same time this visible Head might lead them (his brethren) into error. But so we might go on for an indefinite length, exposing the foolishness of those who directly or indirectly endeavor to sap the very foundation of Christianity, the rock on which Christ founded His Church and against which the gates of hell shall never prevail.
It is necessary, from the very constitution of things, that order should be in the moral as well as in the physical world; but order cannot be found if there is not an authority to which all should be subject—by which all should be guided—and to which all should render a strict account of their each and every action committed against the laws that govern our moral nature.
For the maintenance of order and peace in civil life we have the laws of the State, to which all must conform themselves if they wish to live as reasonable and social beings. But the highest authority on earth is the Church of God— an authority which all mankind are bound to respect, and to whose laws all are bound to submit themselves. Her words are those of God Himself, her admonitions are His admonitions, and her teachings are His teachings. When she speaks, the whole world is bound to hear her voice; and when she commands, all are bound to obey. There is no alternative: man must obey the Church of Christ, or be an enemy to God. Now, since this is the case, it would be well for those pretentiously great men of our day—those men who are so wise in their own conceit—to reflect a • little, and see how far they are carrying themselves. A just God is over their heads,—a God who has done so much for them, and who sees their actions, the rebellious spirit by which they are actuated, and the manner in which they use His most precious gifts; He sees that His words are despised, that the Institution which He established for the guidance of the human race is ridiculed, mocked, laughed at, and that men are inclined to reject altogether everything spiritual and follow the promptings of $ blinded re^on and of a tpd vitiate^ mind,
TSE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
441
If Almighty God be lenient towards such persons on the last day, it must be either on account of their gross ignorance or want of bad faith; but yet it is to be feared that this plea of ignorance or of good faith will avail but very few on the day of retribution. Then it is that those men who now choose to grovel in the dust, mire, and filth of a material world, whose very thoughts or aspirations never reached above the earth, and who could see nothing beautiful or fascinating in morality, honor, or virtue,— then it is that they will have reason to fear the just judgment awaiting them, and learn but too late how much they were mistaken in refusing to follow the dictates of conscience and the infallible teaching of the Catholic Church. Man here below has a fearful responsibility upon him. He has an immortal soul to save, and this he should do at any cost. The world with all its charms, the purling streams, the sylvan dells, the beautiful valleys and the charming hill-sides will all one day vanish from his sight. Nature herself, which seemed to be continually whispering in his ear 1 God is here,’ will likewise take her leave of him, and he shall stand alone—deserted by everybody and everything—either as a friend or as an enemy of his Creator, to receive reward or punishment in accordance with his actions. That man, then, may be prepared to depart from this world, he should accustom himself while here below to observe all the laws of God, and learn to love and respect that Church which is the salvation of society and the civilizer of the world; he should, too, acknowledge the wisdom and power of God manifested in His works, meditate upon His goodness, justice and mercy —upon His infinite perfections.	J. R.
American Antiquities.
Editor of "The Notre Dame Scholastic The scholarly article entitled “American Antiquities,” which appeared in the 25th number of the current volume of the Scholastic, has attracted my attention and evoked the memory of a few gleanings which I made on that subject in Cincinnati some two years ago. I was then perusing a very interesting Latin work printed in 1837 at Copenhagen, and published under the auspices of the Royal Society of Antiquaries of the North. Prof. Rafn, the Secretary of that Society, and editor of the work, gives copious extracts from original MSS. which are carefully preserved in the Royal Archives of Denmark.* The learned and judicious author of the aforesaid article has, in my humble opinion, done full justice to those writers who rather gratuitously claim for the Celts the discovery of America; but he has hardly given enough credit to the real discoverers, viz. : the Scandinavians. While disclaiming any merit for originality of research, permit me, Mr. Editor, to adduce a few well-authenticated historical facts which are deemed sufficient to establish the claims of the latter beyond the possibility of a reasonable doubt.
As early as the year 861, f a bold Norwegian seaman, famous in the annals of France and England in the 10th century for his piratical excursions along the coasts of Normandy and Essex, discovered Iceland, then uninhabited,
* The work is kept under key in the Art-Room of the Public Library of Cincinnati. It is a thin square 12mo vol., with the title of“Antiquitates Americana"
f “J. G. E.” made a few chronological mistakes, which I beg leave to correct.	I
and called it Sneeland (land of snow). Seven years later, several lords, exasperated by the tyranny of Harald Haar-fager, left Norway, and went, under the leadership of Ingolf, to colonize the newly discovered island, to which they gave the name which it still bears at this day. The colony increased very rapidly; and such indeed was its flourishing condition that in little more than half a century later, —that is, in 928,—we see established on the island a regular form of government—a sort of aristocratic oligarchy; Christianity was soon afterwards introduced (981).
In the year 977, Gunnbjorn, an intrepid Icelander and able navigator, went in search of new lands; and, sailing from Reikiarig westward, he discovered, in the month of August of that year, the islands named after him Gunnb-jarnasker, in lat. 65° 20’, and from which he first saw the extensive coasts of a land which was afterwards called Greenland (green land), on account of the green color which a certain kind of lichen (Centraria Islandica), growing most luxuriantly in all Arctic regions, gives, in summer, to the soil. In the spring of the year 936, Erick Randa, the Icelandic chief, left his country and went with his family and a few adventurers to establish a settlement in Greenland. Among his companions of colonization, there was a certain Herjulf Bardson, whose son Bjarne was then sailing off the coasts of Norway. When he—Bjarne Her-julfson—returned to Iceland, he resolved to rejjin his father. So he at once set sail for Greenland; but on his way thither he lost his bearing in a heavy fog, and, by stress of weather, was driven southward to a thickly wooded and level country, which did not correspond to the description that had been made to him of Greenland. He then turned his course to the North, and, after seven days’ sailing, reached a good port on the southwestern part of Greenland, called Herjulfnes, after his father’s name. The glowing description which Bjarne Herjulfson published of the land he had discovered south of Greenland created much excitement, not only in Greenland, but also in Iceland and Norway.
Fourteen years later, in 1000, Leif, the fortunate son of Erick Randa (the Red), determined to visit the country described by Bjarne. He therefore equipped a vessel, and with a well-trained crew of thirty-five men, set sail in quest of adventures. He directed his course due south, and soon descried the lands previously visited by Bjarne. He, however, explored them more thoroughly, described them more exactly, and gave them names which conveyed an idea of their respective characteristics. Thus he named the first land he visited HeUuland, on account of the rounded bowlders with which it is covered. [These bowlders had been transported there by glaciers, or by floating fragments of glaciers—i. e., icebergs.] This is the island now called Newfoundland. Continuing his southward course, Leif came to a flat country covered with thick forests, which he called ATarldand (wood land). This was undoubtedly the land which Bjarne had described, and which is now called Nova Scotia, including the island of Cape Breton. Sailing still further south, the daring Greenlander reached the 41° 30' of N. lat., a point near New Bedford, in the State of Massachusetts. This he called Vinland (land of j »y, or smiling land, and not vine land, as some translate the Norse word m). After having thoroughly explored this beautiful new country, Leif went back to Greenland, but not to remain there, for he soon abandoned the inhospitable clime and sterile soil of Greenland, and returned with many of his countrymen to the mild climate and rich soil
442	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of Vinland, where they multiplied and waxed prosperous, maintaining a constant intercourse with the mother-country down to the 14th century.
In the extracts of MSS. published by Prof. Rafn, and which were written by the explorers themselves, or even by natives of Vinland, we learn that the companions of Leif built rude huts at first, but they soon erected very commodious houses. Mention is also made of several unsuccessful attempts at colonizing other parts of the surrounding country, of the strenuous resistance made by the_ aborigines of the country to the strangers, etc., etc. It is even reported that a Catholic Bishop of Greenland— Eric Upse by name—undertook a voyage to Vinland in 1121, and endeavored, but without success, to preach the Gospel to the natives of the country. That the Icelanders were well acquainted with the natural productions of Markland (Nova Scotia) is evident from the recorded fact that one of their vessels went, in 1347, to that country for timber. But with that fact end all authentic and trustworthy reports concerning the colonies. Towards the middle of the 14th century, all- relations between the mother-country and the colonies of Iceland, Greenland and Vinland ceased, for, by a royal edict, strangers were forbidden to visit those lands. It naturally followed that those distant colonies, not being as yet well and securely established, and not having therefore sufficient life in themselves, were doomed from that day to decay and die; and they did decay and die, just as a branch, however vigorous, must do which is cut oft’ from the parent tree. The state of profound ignorance in which the northern nations of Europe were plunged in the 11th and 12th centuries, and the remoteness of those Scandinavian colonies, sufficiently explain how those bold but very ignorant adventurers and settlers on the continent of America left no material vestiges of their presence in the lands they occupied, and that nothing grand or durable resulted for the increase of geographical knowledge or for civilization. True, the colonists of Vinland have left, as far as is now known, no lasting monuments after them; but I submit that this is not a valid reason for impugning their claim to the discovery of America; the genius of the Northmen does not consist in building monuments, but i n pursuing those peaceful avocations which conduce to the honest enjoyments of life in the family and society. Go to Greenland or even to Iceland, at this day, and I contend that you will find but few, if any, archaeological works of any kind; and yet those countries have been inhabited for a thousand years. The colonists of Vinland were, no doubt, exterminated in the latter part of the 14th century by the warlike, treacherous and ferocious native savages, the Skrallingers.
I have, Mr. Editor, but one more word to say; and it is this: may we hot be warranted in supposing that Christopher Columbus, who certainly visited Iceland in 1478, obtained from the inhabitants of the island much precise information concerning the discoveries made by their countrymen many centuries before ? This remains an open question.	<	J. C. C.
—A lawyer of Strasbourg being in a dying state sent for a brother lawyer to make his will, by which he bequeathed nearly the whole of his estate to the Hospital -for Idiots. The other expressed his surprise at this bequest. “ Why not bestow it upon them ?” said the dying man, “you know I got the most of my money by fools, and, therefore, to fools it ought to return.”
Scientific Notes.
—Sir John Lubbock has made out that ants do not recognize ants of the same nest by any sign or pass-word, though he thinks it impossible that in the case of nests containing 100,000 each all the ants know each other individually.
—Mr. Preece and Mr. Stroh, who have been working for the past twelve months upon the acoustic properties of the phonograph, have completed their labors as far as the vowel sounds are concerned, and their paper on the synthetic examination of these sounds will be read before the Royal Society probably on the 27 inst. Several new instruments of great novelty and marvellous ingenuity will be exhibited, including a new phon-autograph, an automatic phonograph, a compound curvetracer,a new syren, and a new musical instrument.—Nature.
—In a recent series of demonstrations at La Salpetri^re, Paris, Prof. Charcot has shown, inter alia, that it is possible to produce in one subject a state of catalepsy on one side of the body and a simultaneous state of lethargy on the other. The patient is first thrown into catalepsy by looking at the electric light (in this state the limbs are supple, and will retain any position one chooses to give them). To produce the state of lethargy or somnambulism on one side, it is sufficient to close the corresponding eye; or shut off the light with a screen; the two states are then coexistent on the two sides of the body.
—In examining a large collection of South African fossils, obtained by Mr. T. Bain, and forwarded by him to the British Museum, Prof. Owen has recently found a few water-worn fragments of bone which indicate a huge The-riodont reptile new to science. For this, creature he proposes the name Titanosaurus ferox, a name suggestive at once of its great size and of its ferocity. These characteristics are inferred from the nature of the teeth. Possibly it found its prey in such creatures as the pariesauri, the oudenodonts, and the tapinocephalans, which existed in the same geological period and in the same area. The new genus is founded on the merest fragments of bone.
—At a late meeting of the Anthropological Institute Society, in London a paper was read from Mr. D. Macal-lister on the Australian Aborigines. The author concludes that he had no doubt that, had the Continent of Australia remained undiscovered by Europeans for a few thousand years longer, the climatic and general physical changes which would doubtless have occurred, together with the contact at intervals with their more civilized Polynesian neighbors, would have constituted an environment more favorable to progress than any which has ever existed, and would also have tended to an improved condition of the people. As it was, the total absence from the continent of ferocious or powerful animals, and the comparative ease with which the poor and limited quantity of their food was obtained, and their national isolation may have been a potent cause for the non-progressive character of the people.
—The Abbe Debaize, sent out by the French Government, was, when last heard of, on the way from Unyanyembe to Ujiji. He is an energetic man and a quick traveller. It is reported that before reaching Uyn-anyembe he came into collision with some men of an Unyamwezi chief, a relative and rival of the present Uny-.ambezi Sultan of Unyanyembe, much given to highway robbery. The Abbe found with these men ten tusks of ivory which they had plundered from an Arab caravan, and were spying out his position in order to bring down a gang of robbers upon him. This ended in the Abbd kill-ing'the men and taking the ivory to Unyanyembe. After this a party of the Church Missionary Society—apparently under Mr. Stokes—came up, but having discovered that the chief Myungu was plundering, they took the road by Ituvu, and thereby avoided him. Another church missionary party, seemingly under Mr. Penrose, fell into his hands, and was attacked near a lake or pool of water, where the trees gave cover to the enemy. Mr. Penrose was killed, and also sixty-two of his men, chiefly Unyan-wezi porters, but including ten Zanzibarians. Mr. Penrose is said to have fought bravely, holding the robbers in check so long as his cartridges lasted, killing sixteen with his own hand before he fell. Everything was lost; and a
THE NOTRE LAME SCHOLASTIC.	443
few days after, the empty packing cases lay on the ground, and sixty-three dead bodies were counted, including that of a white man, supposed to be Mr. Penrose.
•	Art, Music and Literature.
—Elihu Burritt, “ the learned blacksmith,” died on the 6th.
—Munkasy’s picture of Milton and his daughters, which figured at the Paris Exhibition, has been sold at Vienna tor $40,000.
—Mr. Frank Foxcroft, for many years the literary editor of the Boston Journal,, has collected and edited a volume of poems celebrating Easter, which will be published this Spring.
—Prof. Stanley Jevons has prepared a new and very thoroughly revised edition of his ‘‘Theory of Political Economy,” which will be published by Messrs. Macmillan & Co.
—It is hinted that Fanny Kemble has more records in store. Certainly she could make an interesting book from the time she married Pierce Butler until the present.— New York Herald.
—George Macdonald, the Scottish poet-novelist, has been spending the winter at Porio Fino, Italy, with his family. He says in a recent letter that he has not been so well in thirty years as he is now.
—The current number of the Musikalisches Wochenblatt contains the first detailed notice we have yet seen of Max Bruch’s latest important composition,—his setting oi Schiller’s “Lied von der Glocke.” The work as a whole is very favorably criticised, though some numbers are spoken of as weak, if not trivial. The notice concludes with the remark that “the evening produced a not very deep yet pleasant impression.”
— The musical journals of Vienna are discussing the merits of an interesting discovery made by the Professor of the Flute at the Imperial Conservatoire of Austria. This clever instrumentalist has constructed a bass flute, which stands in the same relation to the ordinaiy flute as the alto does to the violin. The sound is lull and rich, and of great sweetness; and the invention has attracted much attention in Viennese musical circles.	-
—The Manuscript Department of the British Museum has acquired a large collection of papers relating to John Wilkes. Tney comprise many unpublished documents, among which the most interesting are a fragment ot autobiography and a commonplace book. The more important particuiais in these papers will be incorporated tn a new woik on Wilkes, which Mr. W. Fraser Rae, the author of “ Wilkes, Sheridan, Fox: the Opposition Under George HI,’’ is preparing.—Athenaum. ’
-—The Pieleciure of the Seine have just published the first two volumes of the great National Catalogue of the artistic riches oi Paris. These two volumes begin two series respectively, viz.: buildings tor civil and buildings for religious purposes, the first comprehending all the maires, fountains, and theatres; and the second the churches of four arrondissements, with all the works of art they contain, and a history oteacn church attached, so that, judging by that already accomplished, even this part of the work will be likely to occupy' four or five volumes.
—Mr. J. Brander Matthews has written a paper on New York actors,—i e., that is actors who have played in that city,—which will appear in the April Scribner. The article will be illustrated with portraits in character of John Brougham, John Gilbert, Harry Beckett, Coghlan, Clara Morns, Kate Claxton, Mrs. Agnes Booth, Miss Jewett, Mrs. G. H. Gilbert, and others, made from original sketches by Abbey and Reinhardt. In the same number ot this magazine will also appear a complete and auihor-ized account of the inventions and personal lite of Ericsson, written by his friend, W. C. Cnuich, late editor of the Galaxy. This will be the first of a series on inventors.
—Tne latest discovery of unknown musical works is announced in a German paper to have taken place in Vienna, and this time Beethoven is the selected man. A 1
double chorus, with orchestral accompaniment, which dates back to the time of the Vienna Congress, and a rondo for piano solo, with orchestral accompaniment, are the two compositions mentioned. These announcements in the German papers will probably be received with some incredulity, since the story of the discovery by Robert Franz of a quantity of Bach’s manuscript sonatas was shown to be a fabrication, though the contradiction did not appear until long after the paragraph had been copied all over the world.
—Early in March the splendid philological library of the celebrated Hellenist, Wilhelm -Dind >rt, is to be sold by auction. The catalogue includes 4.700 items, 2,600 being philological works, and 1,900 dissertations. Tue Greek diamatists are represented by 432 distinct works, the orators by 56, Homer and Pindar by 120, the historians and Plato together by 162. On Sophocles alpne there are 116 works and 101 dissertations; on H3s-cbylus, 124 woiks and 165 disseitations. The value of the collection is greatly enhanced by the many manuscript annotations written with their own hand by Wilhelm and Ludwig (who died in 1871) Dindorf, extending in many cases to the size of supplements and whole treatises. This choice library has been formed by careful selection spread over sixty years.
New Music.
—We have received from O. Ditson & Co. their elegant Dollar edition of H. AI. S Pinalorie, or The Lass that Loved a Sailor. New Comic Opera. Words by W. S. Gilbert. Music by Aithur Sullivan.
Both the above gentlemen have merited the thanks of musical people. Air Gilbert has had the good sense to write words which are very witty, and at toe same time unobjectionable in point of morals. Air. Sullivan has also shown good sense as well as talent, by comp >sing good and bright music which is, at the same time, easy enough ior common singers. ThertJ is but one scene; the deck of Her ALajesiy’s Ship. As this may be easily rigged up by ama-teuis, and the sailor’s uniiorm of the brave tars that sing may as easily be procured, there is no reason why this popular thing should not be brought out in every town having an average number of solo and chorus singers. The excellence ot the music is endorsed by the best critics.
Books and Periodicals.
—We have received the Young Scientist for March. It is quite an interesting magazine ior the young. Price, 50 cents a year; address, Innustnal Publication Company, 176 Broadway, New York.
—The first number of The Meteorologist, a monthly journal devoted to the science ot meteorology, has been received. It is readable and instructive, and will occupy a place in public favor shared by none other. Price, 50 cents a year; address, J. AI. L. Stump, Greeusburgh, Pa.
—The Alarch number of Church's Musical Visitor, a popular journal ot music, contains some uncommonly valuable articles for singers, piano-players, music-teachers, and indeed for all musical people. Prof. Howard’s “Vocal Process” is the first paper; “Desultory Musical Chats” follows; then Eben E. Rexford has an interesting article on “A Music Teacher’s Trials”; the editorial departments are full and the news of the month is complete. There are also letters from London, Boston, Chicago, and other cities, together with particulars of all the musical conventions throughout the country; several pages of short articles, poems, etc. Dr. Geo. F. Root’s “Normal Corner,” in which all the new methods and improvements in teaching are discussed, is an important ieaiure ot the. Visitor. I'lte music in ibis number embiaces eight pieces, Songs and instrumental, including solus, quartets, sacred songs, piano ana organ pieces. Price of single copies, 15 cents; year’s subscription, with premium, §1.50. The publishers, John Cnurch & Co., Cincinnati, Onio, will send full particulars on application.
i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	’
^4^ janu
Notre Dame, Marell 15, 1879.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twelfth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.*
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.5O Per .An num, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana,
Inconstancy.
Pope has said: “The proper study of mankind is man ”; and he might have added that not the least interesting portion of that study is the unsuccessful man. There are, in truth, few tasks more entertaining or profitable than to examine the qualities, and study the dispositions of those who have failed to attain prosperity. A critical analysis of the different causes which have combined to strand the many lives we see around us, would bring into relief many defects of character, many evil habits and deplorable peculiarities of temper. In a large number of cases, perhaps none of these would stand out more prominently as a reason of failure than inconstancy. A seeming inability to fix the powers of the mind on one particular undertaking, and prosecute it with firmness of purpose until its completion, appears as a very general characteristic of those whose career in life has been unfortunate. Energetic will and persistent labor are so essential to the happy termination of any real work, that persons lacking these qualities are seldom found among the successful competitors for the world’s prizes.
The shifting purposes, vacillating will and capricious conduct of the inconstant man repel success, and render the achievement of any satisfactory results impossible. Continually roving from one occupation to another; to-day devoting himself with ardor to a work which he is fully decided to perform, to-morrow throwing it aside for a new employment, which is begun with equal fervor only to he abandoned with a like fickleness, he wastes more time and energy in commencing half a dozen designs than, well employed, would be sufficient for the successful execution of any one of them. Of how many “golden hours, each studded with sixty diamond minutes,” does not this fickleness occasion the loss! How often do men of genius spend weeks and months in laying the foundation of some
magnificent edifice, whose exemplar is furnished by their brilliant fancy—devote to its construction the most assiduous labor and intense application; and just when the lower walls are ready to receive the beauteous mass of superstructure, lose their energy, and leave the work unfinished—striking evidence of a miserable weakness! What wondrous creations have been lost to the world of letters through the inconstancy of some of the greatest authors! Men subject to this infirmity cannot, properly, affirm anything with certitude respecting their future conduct, for no matter how determined they may be on a course of action, at one moment, a slight change in their temperament or the most trivial external circumstance is often capable of vanquishing their feeble wills, and overcoming their strongest resolutions.
Although it is in manhood that the evil effects of this fault are most apparent and disastrous, it is not usually acquired in that stage of existence, nor is it then that it can be most easily remedied.. A disposition to which we would seem especially inclined by nature, it is very common among youth. Few students are entirely free from this defect, and in the character of many it is the distinctive feature. Nothing can be more detrimental to their advancement. No matter how remarkable the talent a young man possesses, how quick his perception or correct his judgment, without a real serious and sustained application of his mental faculties he will never prove a scholar. Earnest, persevering labor can alone draw from the deep wells of science those precious draughts so invigorating to the intellectual powers. Without it, all progress is deceptive, and all success unreal. Who are they that carry off the' prizes annually distributed in our colleges—that are destined to win the greater prizes in the lottery of life ? Not always, nor in the majority of cases, those to whom nature has been most prodigal of her gifts. How frequently is it not the boy of only moderate talent, whom all considered far inferior to his “smart” fellow-pupils! What is the secret of his success ? It is his energy. He possesses that indomitable will and invincible determination that never abandons a difficulty until it is overcome. When, after deliberation, he decides upon some work, he not only sets about it boldly, he pursues it perseveringly. If, in its progress, obstacles arise, instead of becoming disheartened after two or three unsuccessful trials to surmount them, he is only incited the more to use greater diligence, and receives additional pleasure from his victory. That he eventually surpasses more brilliant companions is but another exemplification of the fact, patent above all others to observant minds, that in the contests of life, great or unimportant, inconstant genius is ever outstripped by energetic' mediocrity.
If, then, constancy be so indispensable a requisite to insure success in the schemes of life, it becomes a duty of paramount importance for all young men to acquire this quality. To those who are accustomed to spasmodic exertion, who are “ everything by fits and starts, and nothing long,” it will doubtless seem an arduous undertaking, attended with many difficulties; but if they set about it resolutely, half of those difficulties will prove imaginary and the rest will succumb to the determined force of an energetic will. In this, as in all other struggles with our passions, the first victory won, greatly facilitates succeeding conquests. The main obstacle is the fighting of that first battle, the forming, and keeping, of a resolution to complete the first work, worthy of our attention, which we
THE^NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
begin. Be that action ever so insignificant, its accomplishment will advance us one step, and the longest one, in the necessary work of correcting a bad habit. To neglect this correction is to engage in the struggle with the world, bearing within oneself an element of almost certain failure —to launch our bark on the ocean of life, with an adverse wind o£ our own volition forever impeding our progress towards any of the desired havens of wealth, fame, honor or happiness.
“Know Thyself.”
Never perhaps before was it more necessary for men to weigh well the meaning of that ancient maxim, “ Know thyself,” than at the present day. We live in an age in which unfortunately it seems to be entirely forgotten or ignored, when men, instead of studying well their own character and seeing what they themselves really are, pry into that of others .and constantly try to find out their many little failings in order that they may have something to hold up before their eyes as a reproach and which may injure and lower them as much as possible in the eyes of others. In fact, nowadays it would seem that men make it their first duty to know others rather than know themselves. They imagine that a knowledge of oneself is something easy, and scarcely worthy of attention—something that will come natural to them, without any effort on their part, and something which they think that they know but too (well already. That such persons labor under a very false impression can readily be seen by all true thinking men.
Now, perhaps, there is nothing more difficult to be obtained than a true knowledge of oneself, and hence it should be the first aim of each and every member of society to acquire this knowledge,—a knowledge that will render him worthy of admiration in the eyes of others, and enable him to avoid many little snares into which he is otherwise liable to fall.
To Thales, the great philosopher of old, who seems to have been the first that bore the name of sage, nothing appeared to be more difficult than a true knowledge of oneself. This consideration led him to that excellent precept which was afterwards engraved on a plate of gold in the temple of Apollo, and which Juvenal attributed to the god himself: “Know Thyself.”
Every day experience teaches the pertinence of this maxim, and if everyone would first try to find out what he himself really is, and not trouble himself so much about others,—if he would try to find out his own many defects and correct them, society to-day would not be as it is. All must admit that a knowledge of oneself is the first thing incumbent upon us, and hence should be the first aim of everyone. But far from being the first duty that men of our day turn their’ attention to, it seems to be entirely the last. We meet constantly with men who seem to have no knowledge whatever of themselves, but who pretend to know all about others; who seem to mind every other one’s business but their own. How often in these days do we not meet with men who pretend to know everything! Talk to them about any subject whatever, and they will tell you that they know all about it. Speak to them about the sciences, and they will tell you that they are quite at home. Speak to them of mathematics from the lowest to the highest, and they will try to convince you that they are fully conversant with every
thing in this line. In fact, you cannot mention a subject which they do not know, and in which they will pretend to be well versed. Now, such persons are just exactly the ones that have the most scanty knowledge of any of the things which they would have others believe that they know thoroughly. They may not know the first principles of the subjects they speak about, and yet they are never done talking about them, trying to make others believe that they are geniuses, whereas they are* shallow egotists. They possess not that knowledge of themselves which they really should, and which they may very easily obtain if they will only give it half the attention they give to other things which should concern them very little, if at all. Such persons forget that their first duty is to know themselves; that self-knowledge enables a person to know his proper place in the world and in society, and having this knowledge and living in accordance with it he will with middling talents raise himself very high in the estimation of others.
What, for instance, is more disgusting than to hear people constantly blowing the trumpet of their own fame, imposing upon the good nature of others by trying to make them believe that they are this, that, and the other, when in all likelihood they are only venting some of the gassy air with which their self-conceit has filled and puffed them up! It may be a relief and pleasure to such people to get rid of so much of their puffy material, but they should also be aware that they should not seek this relief, this pleasure, at the expense of others, on whom courtesy imposes a forbearance that is still painful. Had these young gentlemen the gift of self-knowledge even in a slight degree, they would see the folly of such an action, and in avoiding it they would not only increase in others the estimation of what they do know, but also, sometimes, obtain by it credit for things they do not know, or only in a slight degree; this, besides the making their company more agreeable to their associates and keeping them out of false and ridiculous positions. Such persons should especially lay to heart and consider well the maxim, “Know thyself.” If all would weigh well the importance of this maxim there would not be so many disputes and difficulties, and people would be only too glad to have something good to say of others whenever an occasion presented. They would not be trying to find out the many little defects of their neighbors, for they would then be aware that they have defects of their own which require their attention. They would see in themselves but little worthy of praise, and would be ever ready to give expression to the admiration inspired by the virtues and good qualities of others.	’
Everyone, then, should make it his first duty to know himself, and never mind others, and by eradicating the really slight—but disgusting—defects that mar his really excellent qualities he will be benefitting himself and others.
“ Let each man learn to know himself;
To gain that knowledge let him labor;
Improve those failings in himself
Which he so oft sees in his neighbor.”
—An old gentleman who frequented one of the coffeehouses being unwell, determined to make free with the professional man who attended occasionally, and steal an opinion on his case. Accordingly, seated perchance in the same box with one of the faculty, he inquired what he should take for such a complaint, naming nis own. “I’ll tell you,” replied the doctor, sarcastically, “you should take advice.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Personal.
—John G. Duffield (Commercial), of ’77, is in business at Rockland, Texas.
—Rev. J. Fr&re is recovering from his sickness, and is now able to walk around.
—Andrew Holmes (Commercial), of ’76, is in business with his father at Cleveland, Ohio.
—Rev. R. Shortis, of’49, the esteemed Chaplain of St. Mary’s, pays us a visit once in a while.	'
—George B. Saylor (Commercial), of ’77, is connected with the Antwerp Stove Company, Antwerp, Ohio!
—Frank C. Luther (Commercial), of ’78, has entered the Commercial house of Wm. H. Kinkaid, Albion, N. Y.
—Mrs. Brady, of Tuscaloosa, Alabama, is spending a few days at Notre Dame visiting her two sons who are students here.
—Prof. Gregori’s beautiful painting of Mr. Chapman’s family is on exhibition at O’Brien’s studio, Chicago, Ills.— Chicago Times.
—Among the visitors of the past week were A. B. Trent-man, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Geo. W. Howe, Niles, Mich., and Wm. S. Howe, Buchanan, Mich.
—Mr. L. A. Barnes, President of the Peninsular Paper Co., Ypsilanti, Mich., ran over to see us last week. Mr. Barnes is a gentleman who needs only to be known to be respected and admired.
—Mr. Moses Adler, late of Livingston & Co., of South Bend, will open by April 1st a first-class store for the sale of gentlemen’s furnishing goods, hats and caps, under the St. Joseph Hotel. Mr. Adler is a man with whom it is a pleasure to trade. We wish him success. *
—Very Rev. President Corby left for Milwaukee, Wis., last Tuesday morning to attend the funeral of the late Very Rev. Vicar-General Kundig. Father Kundig has been a friend of Notre Dame for over thirty years, and his death was sincerely mourned here by all who have had the pleasure and honor of his acquaintance.
Local Items. •
—The snow has at last disappeared.
—The Campus commences to look lively again.
—The gardeners are getting ready to begin work.
—All the spring games are now going on on the Campus.
—Work in the garden in front of the College has begun.
—To-morrow week is Lsetare Sunday, the middle of Lent.
—Now that the weather is so fine walks are very frequent.
—The competitions next week will be in Modern Languages.
—Our horticulturists are commencing to work in their gardens.
—It is about time, we think, that the baseball clubs reorganize.
J —The Athletics beat the Mutuals by a score of 28 to 8 last Wednesday. .
—There is every appearance of our having an early spring this year.
—The advent of the blue birds and the robins is a harbinger of spring.
—Bass-ball is the favorite game with the boys during the recreation hours.
X
K —The validore in the Minims’ yard is well patronized by the young fellows.
—Let all corresponding secretaries see to it that reports are handed in on time.
—Raking, scraping, and cleaning up things began with the departure of the snow.
—The ice on the lakes is melting rapidly. It has not yet disappeared, however.
—The Thespians’ and Columbians’ meeting room has been greatly improved lately.
; —Mr. Bonney, the photographer, will soon be at work at Notre Dame, on Wednesdays.
J —The second competition for the gold medal in Christian Doctrine will take place to-morrow.
, —We would suggest that some more trees be planted J his spring on the banks near the boat-house.
—There will soon be some imorovements made in the tailor-shop connected with the Manual Libor School.
—It is now about time to .lay down the Sidle and the bow, and take up the shovel and the hoe for spring work.
—Judge Turner, of South Bend, has issued his Annual for 1879. The trade of the city m tkeaan excellent showing.
—Brother Robert has the thanks of the Minims for putting the garden in front of their study-hall in such good order.
—Club nines, scrub nines, picked nines, and any number of kinds of nines were on the Campus last Wednesday, at baseball.
J —The Juniors have been engaged in jumping during the recreations. Tne best jump made from the swing was /by R. O’Connor.	' ‘
—A pair of swings has lately been added to the Ap-sprentices’ play-room, and now the boys have every facility of enjoying themselves.
—The 18th regular meeting of the Association of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary was held Sunday, March 9ih. The usual instruction was given. ’
I —Tom Collins delivered his lecture to the Columbians nast Wednesday. It will be printed, we believe, and sold for the benefit of the yellow-fever sufferers.
—The Actives and Young Americans, two nines of the Junior Department, played a spirited game of baseball on Wednesday last, the Actives winning by a score of 15 to 4.
—The second instruction on the “ Commandments ” was given last Sunday. It was greatly admired by all. Very Rev. President Corby is the preacher of this series of instructions. ,
—A pair of smill black beads was lost, probably on the premises here, last Sunday, which the finder will confer a favor by leaving at the printing-office or sending to Rev. Father Hudson.
—Of all the inhabitants of Notre Dame, the Minims seem to make the best use of the fine weatner. No one hearing their merry laugh at recreation could doubt^if their happy hearts and light spirits.
—Spring weather seems to have come at last. The beginning of the week was lovely overhead, and though there was mud under the feet every one enjoyed the warmth. There was no need for overcoats.
—To-morrow afternoon the First Vespers of St. Patrick will be sung. The psalms are from the Common of a Confessor Bishop, page 48 of the Vesperal. In the morning the Missa de Angelis will be sung.
—The usual reports of the St. Cecilians’ aud Philopa-trians’ meetings will appear in next week’s Scholastic. 0 wing to the late illness of their President, they were not given in time for the present issue.
—We are sorry to say that the Weekly Union of Ne w York eprints “The Lady Anatomist” without giving the Scholastic its proper credit. All translations from the Aube Tirebouchon have first appeared in our columns.
| —In the junior Department an anti-detention society was formed with John Qiincy as President. Any member getting in detention is to be fined five cents. The funds of the society are to be invested in peanuts.
—The regular semi-monthly meeting of the Sodality of the Blessed Virgin took place on the evening of Wednesday, the 12th inst. Rev. M. P. Fallize gave the ten-minute instruction. Masters James Fenton and E. Hughson read papers—the first on “ The Life of St. Thomas Aquinas ” ; the second, on “ The Colors Used at Mass.”
—The 8th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held Saturday, March 8th. Declamations were delivered by Masters Snee, Crowe,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
*
447
Woodson, Hartrath, W. Cogblin, Kitz, J. McGrath, C. McGrath, N. Nelson, Rheinboldt, Garrick', Fitzgerald, and Jos. Inderrieden. Masters Woodson and Snee were the singers of the evening.
—A very interesting game of baseball took place Wednesday between two picked nines of the Senior Department. As it was tbe first game of the season it was highly appreciated. The most interesting feature of the game was a liner taken with one hand by Mr. Dempsey. Messrs. McGee and Crawford acted as captains. Tne score stood 21 to 8 in favor of the former. Umpire, E. J. Maley.
—A contest has been going on for the last two weeks in the Junior 1st Geography Class between two sides, captained by Masters John Gibbons and Park Perley, the side losing to pay the expenses of an oyster supper. The! contest1 ended last Saturday, and was decided in favor of Perley’sside. Mister Frank Phillips made the least number of mistakes during the time, his record showing but five.
—The Active Baseball Club was reorganized March 12th. The following are the officers and positions of the members : Bro. Leander, Director; J. Seeger, Captain; R. Pleins, Secretary; W. McDevitt, Treasurer; W. McDevitt, c.; F. Campau, p.; J. Kennedy, s. s.; J. Seeger, 1st b.; Moses Foote, 2d b.; R. C. Pleins, 3d b.; J. Boose, r. f.; E. Gallagher, c. f.; T. Devitt, 1. f.; 0. Farrelly, scorer; Moses Foote, field-captain.
—The Young America Baseball Club was reorganized March 12th. The following are the officers and positions of the members: Bro. Leander, Director; J. Scanlan, Captain ; E. Sugg, Secretary; P. Perley, Treasurer; R. French, c.; F. Grever, p.; J. Scanlan, s. s.; E. Sugg, 1st b.; P. Perley, 2d b.; F. Pleins, 3d b.; M. Herrick, c. f.; J. Guthrie, 1. f.; A. Mergentheim, r,f.; F. Grever, field-captain; G. Castanedo, scoreT.
—The St. Aloysius Philodemic Association held a meeting on the 11th, when the following officers were elected: President, Rev. T. E. Walsh; Vice-President, M. J. McCue; Corresponding Secretary, F. Devoto; Recording Secretary, J. J. Quinn; Treasurer, J. P. Quinn; 1st Censor, A. Hertzog; 2d Censor, J. P. Kinney. An essay was read by R. Russell; W. J. Murphy answered a question. The debate was on “Charles Dickens as a moralist.” Messrs. C. Clarke, A. J. Burger, A. B. Congar and J. Kinney took part in it.
—The Comets and Stars, two picked nines of the Junior Department, played a match game on Wednesday last. The positions of the Comet nine were as follows: J. Schoby, c.; H. E. Canoil, p.; E. Murphy, s. s.; Fogarty, 1st b.; A. Zahm, 2d b.; A. Stimuli, 3d b.; Kurz, r. f.; L Garceau, c. f.; E. Ewell, 1. f. Of the Stars: G. Orr, c.; S. Walters, p.; H. G. Niles, s. s.; F. Pleins, 1st b.; L. Dimick, 2d b.; Foster, 3d b.; C. Walsh (Sr.), r. f.; R. J. Semmes, 1. f.; A. Caren, c. f. There were seven innings. The result was 11 to 12 in favor of the Comet nine.
—On the 9th inst. a meeting of the resident graduates of the Commercial Course was held for the purpose of taking the preliminary steps towards the organization of the Commercial Alumni. Eleven graduates were present. Mr. L. J. Evers, of ’75, was chosen President pro tern.; Mr. P. J. Dougherty, of ’78, Secretary pro tem. After some of^ the many advantages which may arise from this organization had been discussed, a committee of three was appointed to see that full arrangements be made for permanent organization in June, The following is the committee: _ Messrs. P. J. Dougherty, of’78; J. P. Kinney, of’77; G. F. Sugg, of ’78. It is desired that as many of the graduates as can be present in June.
—Very Rev.E Sorin, Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, honored the Sorin Literary and1" Dramatic Association with a visit last week. At the re-_ quest of the members, the Very Rev. Father addressed the Association, selecting as the subject of his discourse “Devotion to St. Joseph.” It would not be easy to reproduce the beautiful and impressive speech; suffice it to say that he left his audience highly gratified and delighted, their only regret being that the multiplied and onerous cares'attendant upon Very Rev. Father General’s office do not admit of his favoring them with more frequent visits. The Association tender their- deepest thanks to their honored
and beloved Patron for his visit and his eloquent and delightful speech.
—On the 12th the Junior Baseball Association organized the nines which are to play for the annual championship. The officers and members were chosen and assigned positions as follows: The Athletics—J. Mug, 1st b.; G. Donnelly, c.; F. Bloom, p.; A. Rock, s. s.; W. G. Jones, 2d b.; M. J. Burns, 3J b.; F. Scheid, 1. f.; J. Gibbons, r. f.; F. McGrath, c. f. The Excelsiors—A.. Rietz, c.; F. Clarke, p.; R. Williams, 1st b.; J. McCarthy, 21 b.; E. Cleary, 3d b.; J. Lumley, r. f.; K. Seanlan, s. s.; L. D. Kies, c. f.; J. Nelson, 1. f. The officers of the Athletics are: J. Mug, Captain; M. J. Burns, Secretary; F. Bloom, Treasurer; J. GibbonstField-Captain; W. Cannon, Scorer. The officers <jf the Excelsiors are: A. Rietz. Captain; K Scanlan, Secretary; F. Clarke, Treasurer; R. Williams, Field-Captain; C. Van Mourick, Scorer.
RoH of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
.	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. M. Anderson, J. F. Arantz, M. W. Bannon, J. J. Kotz, M. H. Bannon, James P. Brice, A. J. Burger, J. B. Berteling, M. T. Burns, T. J. Burns, J. M. Byrne, J. G. Baker, J. F. Buchanan, James Bell, Thos. Barrett, A. B. Congar, G. P. Cassidy, T. F. -Conlan, Wm. Connolly, B. J. Claggett, E. E. Collins, G. Cochrane, J. M. Carroll, E. Calkins, C. B. Cones, D. Donohue, E. Dempsey, J. Downey, F. Devoto, L. J. Evers, J. Eberhart, A. J. Hertzog, M. J. Hogan, J. C. Herrman, T. J. Harrison, P. Horn, J. P. Kinney, J. Krost, A. M. Keenan, R..E. Keenan, P. B. Larkin, W. J. Murphy; C. F. Mueller. E. Maley, M. J. McCue, J. B. McGrath, J. J. McErlain, R. C. O’Brien, G. Palmer, L. N. Proctor, S. 8. Perley, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Qumn, R. Russell, W. Ryan, M. Roughan, 8. T. Spalding, J. Spalding, J. J.Shugrue, T. W. Simms, Jno. Simms, Geo. Sugg, T. S. Summers, A. Scheiber, E. Schifferle, P. Shea, R. D. Stewart, S. P. Terry, P. H. Vogel, F. Williams, F. X. Wal).
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	’
T. G. Arthur, H. G. Guynn, F. Glade, F. Becker, B. A. Casey, J. C. Casey, P. C. Crowley, H. E. Canoil, A. A. Caren, T. F. Clarke, J. V. Cable, G. H. Donnelly, T. F. Devitt, J. W. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, L. D. Dimick, R. L. French, M. L. Foote, J. W. Guthrie, J. A. Gibbons, F. H. Grever, L. H. Garceau, J. Haney, J. B. Inderrieden, J. Kurz, L. D. Kies, G. C. Knight, W. A Lent-ner. E. Murphy, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy, R. E. McCarthy, J. F. Muir, H. G. Niles, J. A. O’Donnell, G. A. Orr, R. E. O’Connor, R. C. Pleins, F. B. Phillips, A P. Perley, W. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, A. 8. Rock, W. F. Reinhardt, K. L. Scanlan, J. M. Scanlan, J. A. Seeger, G. A. Schnull, E G. Sugg, J. K. Schoby, R. J. Semmes, C. P^ Van Mourick, M. Wolf, R. f. Williams, A. F. Zahm.	•
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. J. Gordon, C. M. Long, W. Rea, C. McGrath, J. S. McGrath, P. S. Fitzgerald, G. Tourtillotte, F. P. Brady, J. A. Crowe, J. M. Courtney, C. M. Crowe, A. Chirhart, A. Hartrath, A. Hierb, C. L. Garrick, C. J. Welty, Harry A. Kitz, A. Rheinboldt, A. F. Schmiickle, J. S. Inderrieden, F. K. Parsons, F. I. Garrity, J. H. Garrity, J. Chaves, L. J. Young, A. Van Mourick, P. Campau, Thos. McGrath, W. V. O’Malley, C. J. Young, F. B. Farrelly, E. A. Howard, I. C. Williams.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
A. Hertzog, L. J. Evers, M. J. McCue, J. P. Quinn, J. J. Quinn, J. A Burger, J. P. Kinney, R. Russell, G. Sueg, G. Cassidy, A ZB. Congar, J. B. Berteling, J. B. McGrath, F. W. Bloom, M. J. Burns, R. D. Stewart. ~
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Moral Philosophy—J. J. Quinn, L. Evers; Metaphysics—M McCue, J. P. Quinn, P. J. Dougherty; Logic—T. Simms, R.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Keenan, G. Sugg; Latin—J. J. Quinn, F. Bloom, R. Russell; Greek—A.J. Heitzog, J. Kinney, F. Bloom; J. B. McGrath; English Composition—W. Connolly, R. Anderson, J. Downey, A. Rock; Rhetoric—8. Spalding, G. Schnull, K. Scanlan ; History—J. Shugrue, A. Hertzog, G. Cassidy, W.- Arnold, M. McCue, G. Sugg, W. Murphy, S. Spalding, L. Evers; Criticism —F. W. Bloom; Algebra—R. O’Bnen. W. McGorrisk, R. D. Stewart; Geometry—J. G. Baker, R. O’Brien, M. J. Burns, W. McGorrisk; Trigonometry—W. McGorrisk ; General Geometry and Calculus—J. P. Kinney, A. J. Burger, J. Berteling; Mechanics—M. J. McCue; Descriptive Geometry—M. J. McCue; Astronomy—J. B. Berteling; Surveying—G. Sugg, A. B. Con-gar; Physiology—R. E. Keenan; Botany—W. B. McGorrisk; Geology—J. McCue; Physics—G. Sugg, J. P. Kinney; Chemistry—W. Connolly ; English Literature--.
—All the societies have regular meetings.
—The Theoretical Music Classes are aware “ time ” is passing, and other subjects must be mastered ere the closing of the term.
—The snow took “French leave,” and the green sward is_tempting to those who enjoy long walks; better wait a few days, says Aunt Prudence, or you may find some of the colds Jost by nobody.
—At the weekly Academic reunion, three of the pupils— Misses M. Brown, A. Cavenor, and A. Kirchner—read the paper of the 2d and 3d Senior Classes (“The Chimes.”) Every article was creditable to the contributors, and exceedingly well read.
—The literary societies meet regularly. Last week in St Teresa’s Society, sketches from “Legendary Art,” by Mrs. Jamison, and a selection from Washington Irving’s “Sketch Book” were read. St. Catharine’s Society read “Reed’s Lecture on British Poets.” St. Angela’s Society, “ Selections from the Lives of St. Clotilde, Queen of France, and St. Agnes, Virgin Martyr.”
—Among the visitors during the week were Mr. Robert W. Stanley, St. Louis, Mo.; Mrs. Cavenor, Mrs. Dwyer, Chicago; Mrs. Howard, Mrs. Gish, Mrs. Geit, South Bend; Mr. C. M. Proctor, Elkhart; Miss Maud Lewis, Miss M. Williams, Prof. H. Coyle, Mr. Hagerty, Mr, Colluta, Chicago ; Mr/ Stace, Indianapolis; Mr. Goodlen, Mound City; Mrs. L. D. Cortright, Hyde Patk; Mrs. D. G. Becker, Chicago; Rev. Father Demers; Mr. L. A. Barnes, Ypsilanti, Mich.; Mr. W. O. Gorman, Grand Rapids; Mr. E. Kennedy. Miss H. Townsend, Berrien Springs; Miss M. Dennis, Detroit; Mrs. Gerrish, Denver City, Col.; Mr. and Mrs. Pampel, Chicago, 111.; Mr. G. W. Norman, of McGee's Weekly, N. Y.; Mrs. E. Lemontey, Mrs. Anderson and daughter, New Orleans, La.
Roll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Hope Russell, Sarah Moran, Ida Fisk, Louisa Kelly;
1st 8b. Class—Misses Teresa Killelea, Clara Silverthorn, Ellen McGrath, Eleanor Keenan, Annie Woodin, Anna Maloney, Zod Papin, Rebecca Neteler, Sarah Hambleton, Mary Birch, Aurelia Mulhall.
2d8r. Class—Misses Catharine Hackett, Catharine Danaher, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Woltord, Angela Ewing, Ellen Galen, Adelaide Kirchner, Annie Cavenor, Harriet Buck, Grace Glasser, Adella Gordon, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Alice Farrell, Mary Piattenburg, lorantha Semmes, Mary Brown, Catharine Lloyd, Elizabeth Schwass, Elizabeth Walsh.
3d Sr. Class—Misses Alicia Donelan, Anna McGrath, Emma Gerrish, Anna Cortright, Henrietta Rosing, Adella Geiser, Lucie Chilton, Ellena Thomas, Agnes Joyce, Pauline Hills, Annie Jones, Martha Wagoner, Catharine Hoadley, Louisa Neu, Angela Dillon, Catharine Claffey, Mary Usselman, Josephine Mitchell, Ella Mulligan.	.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses Mary Mullen, Mary Fitzgerald, Kathleen Wells, Marie Dallas, Mary Feehan, Ollie Williams, Ina Capelle, Della McKerlie, Linda Fox, Minna Loeber, Caroline Gall, Mary English, Anna Hermann.
2d Prep. Class—Misses Teresa Zahm, Laura French, Lilly
Lancaster, Mary Campbell, Charlotte Van Namee, Mary Hake, Agnes McKinnis, Margaret Cleghorn, Johanna Baroux, Annie Orr, Ca'barine Campbell.
2d Div.—Misses Bridget Kelly, Julia Butts, Sarah Purdy, Ellen Kinzie, Ida Torrence, Mabel Hamilton.
Junior Prep.—Misses Sabina Semmes, Matilda Kildaire, Annie Leydon, Marie McN. Garrity, Maud Casey, Mary Lyons, Julia Wells.
1st Jr.—Misses Ada Clarke, Elise Papin, Elise Lavoie, Mary Paquette, Mary Chirhart, Julia Cleary, Jessie Pampel, Amelia Morris, Minnie Fisk, Elizabeth Consadine.
2d Jr.—Miss Jane McGrath.
3d Jr.—Miss Alice Esmer.
Latin—Misses lorantha Semmes, Pauline Hills.
FRENCH.
1st Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Eleanor Keenan, Ellen McGrath, Annie McGrath.
2d Class—Misses Henrietta Rosing, Ellen Galen, Marie Dallas, Elise Lavoie.
2d Class—Misses lorantha Semmes, Grace Glasser, Elizabeth Kirchner, Ella Mulligan, Zod Papin.	'
2d Div.—Misses Angela Ewing. Martha Wagoner, Mary Casey, Mary Birch, Lucie Chilton, Ida Fisk.
3d Class—Misses Annie Cavenor, Louisa Neu, Annie Cortright, Mary Brown, Mary Campbell, Laura French, Linda Fox.
4th Class—Misses Philomena Wolford, Annie Ryan, Ollie Williams, Mary Feehan, Johanna Baroux, Della McKerlie, Mary Sullivan, Sophie Papin, Annie Jones, Mary English, Catharine Wells, Annie Orr, Mary Hake, Ada Clarke.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Adelaide Kirchner, Rebecca Neteler, Mary Usselmann.
2d Class—Misses Caroline Gall, Elizabeth Schwass, Adella Gordon, Elizabeth Walsh, Martha Pampel.
3d Class—Misses Ina Capelle, Minna Loeber, Louisa Kelly, Alice Farrell, Catharine Hackett, Charlotte Van Namee, Catharine Claffey.
4th Class—Misses Martha Pampel, Alice Donelan, Catharine Ward, Mary Fitzgerald, Agnes Joyce, Anna Woodin, Adelaide Bisby, Mabel Hamilton, Maud Casey, Julia Butts, Catharine Hoadley, Mary Chirhart, Martha Zimmerman, Alice Esmer.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
Graduating Class—Misses Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Elizabeth Kirchner, Minerva Spier.
1st Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
2d Div.—Miss Eleanor Keenan.
2d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck.
2d Div.—Misses Angela Dillon, Mary Usselman, Mary Sullivan, Henrietta Rosing, Teresa Killelea, Louisa Neu.
3d Class—Misses Annie McGrath, Mary Brown, Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Campbell, Emma Lange, Alice Farrell, Catharine Hoadley.
2d Div.— Misses Mary McGrath, Elizabeth Walsh, Aurelia Mulhall, Caroline Gall, Catharine Hackett, Anna Maloney.
4th Class—Misses Annie Cortright, Mary Mullen, Marie Dal -las, Mary English, Emma Shaw, Kathleen Wells.
2d Div.—Misses Annie Hermann, Emma Gerrish, Ann Leydon. Zoe Papin, Angela Ewing, lorantha Semmes, Ellen Hackett. ’
5th Class—Misses Martha Pampel, Annie Woodin, Mabel Hamilton, Annie Cavenor, Ida Torrence,’Josephine Mitchell, Della McKerlie, Marie Piattenburg, Charlotte Van Namee, Laura French.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Garrity, Annie Jones, Sarah Purdy, Mary Birch, Linda Fox, Mary Mulligan, Catharine Claffey, Minna Loeber, Elizabeth Schwass, Agnes Joyce, Mary Hake, Eleanor Thomas, Paulina Hills, Catharine Danaher, Matilda Kildaire.
6th Class—Misses Mary Casey, Bridget Kelly, Julia Wells, Maud Casey, Rebecca Neteler, Annie Orr, Ellen Cavanagh, Elise Dallas, Mary Feehan, Ellen Mulligan.
2d Div.—Misses Agnes McKinnis, Catharine Lloyd, Johanna Baroux, Alicia Donelan, Philomena Wolford, Lucie Chilton, Mary McFadden, Annie R3 an, Grace Glasser, Mary Fitzgerald, Ellen Kinsey, Catharine Ward, Julia Barnes.
7th Class—Misses Elise Papin, Julia Cleary, Mary Chirhart, Isabella Hackett.
8th Class—Misses Blanche Garrity, Martha Zimmerman, Ada Clarke, Manuelita Chaves.
2d Div.—Misses Ellen Lloyd, Emma Fisk, Julia Butts.
9th Class—Misses Sabina Semmes, Alice Esmer, Angela Watson.
Harp—2d Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
3d Class—Misses Angela Dillon, lorantha Semmes, Mary Brown, Mary Campbel), Alice Farrell, Annie McGrath.
Organ—Miss A. Hermann.
Harmony—1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Elizabeth Kirchner, Clara Silverthorn, Minerva Spier.
2d Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
3d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class, 2d Div.—Misses Elizabeth and Adelaide Kirchner.
‘j

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	449
2d Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Mary Usselman, Adella i	Gordon.
|	3d Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Catharine Hackett, Alice
Farrell, Aurelia Mulhall.
4th Class—Misses Mary Casey, Mary Sullivan, Zod Papin, Mary McGrath, Annie McGrath, Mary Birch, Angela Ewing.
5th Class—Misses Hattie Buck, Sarah Purdy, Mary English, Annie Jones, Della McKerlie, Mary Mulligan, lorantha Semmes, Ina Capelle, Mary Plattenburg, Mary Hake, Laura French, Ella Cavanagh, M. Wagner.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
2d Class—Misses Angela Dillon, Anna Cortright, Laura French.
r	3d Class—Misses Elizabeth Schwass, Mary Sullivan, Catha-
Irine Campbell, Angela Ewing, Sophie Papin, Julia Butts, lorantha Semmes, Sarah Purdy, Minna Loeber, Maud Casey, Ellen Mulligan, Mary English.
CRAYON.
1st Class—Misses Emma Lange, Elizabeth Kirchner. PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
2d Class—Misses Rebecca Neteler, Sarah Moran, Sarah Hambleton, Harriet Buck.
3d Class—Misses Agnes Joyce, Marie Plattenburg, Hope Russell, Mary Campbell, Marie Dallas, Teresa Killelea, Ellena Thomas.
OILPAINTING.
1st Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Emma Lange.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Teresa Zahm, Josephine Mitchell, Elizabeth Walsh, Ollie Williams, Minnie Loeber, Martha Pampel, Caroline Gall, Adelaide Bisby, Mary English. Catharine Hackett, Mary Campbell, Mabel Hamilton, Nellie K'nzie, Martha Wagoner, Ida Torrence, Mary Fitzgerald, Ella Cavanaugh, Annie Jones.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
*	Misses Agnes McKinnis, Anna M< Grath, Linda Fox, Catharine
" Campbell, Maud Casey, Ella Mulligan, Annie Orr, Charlotte Van Namee, Julia Wells, Mary McFadden, Johanna Baroux, g Mary Lyons, Mary Chirhart, Catharine Claffey, Mary Paquette, Ellen Hackett, Isabella Hackett, Rose Kildaire, Lilly Lancaster, Anna Leydon, Angela Watson, Marie McN. Garrity, B anche de Chantal Garrity, Ada Clarke, Elizabeth Consadine, Elise Papin, Martha Zimmermann, Isabella Scott, Alice Esmer, Sabina Semmes.
ORNAMENTAL NEEDLEWORK.
1st Class—Misses Annie Herrman. Louisa Neu, Mary Hake, Sarah Purdy, Alice Donelan, Della McKerlie, Adelaide Bisby, Elizabeth Schwass, Rebecca Neteler.
2d Div.—Misses Ellena Thomas, Mary Sullivan, Angela Dillon, Lucie Chilton, Marie Plattenburg, Minna Loeber, Ollie Williams, Mary Casey, Agnes Joj ce, Annie Cavenor, Grace Glasser.
PLAIN sewing.
1st Class—Misses Mary Usselman, Ina Capelle, ‘Mary Brown, Mary Birch, Mary Plattenburg, Annie Jones, Emma Lange, Ellen McGrath, Clara Silverthorn, Ellen Keenan, Annie Maloney, Teresa Killelea, Catharine Lloyd, Adella Gordon. Elizabeth Walsh, Ellen Galen, Catharine Hackett, Elizabeth Schwass, Alice Farrell, Annie Ryan, Mary Sullivan, Alicia Donelan.
2d Class—Misses Philomena Wolford, Catharine Ward, Mary Casey, Lucie Chilton, Angela Dillon, Anna Cortright, Henrietta Rosing, Mary Mullen, Ellena Thomas, Minna Loeber, Julia Barnes, Catharine Wells, Mary English, Ollie Williams, Mary Campbel), Della McKerlie, Teresa Zahm, Caroline Gal), Annie Hermann, Mary Hake, Sarah Purdy.
13	For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct
deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Hope Russell, Sarah Moran. Ellen McGrath, Clara Silverthorn, Rebecca Neteler, Teresa Killelea, Zod Papin, Aurelia I	Mulhall, Adella Gordon, Ellen Gaien, Catharine Hackett, Alice
Farrell, Mary Brown, Mary Plattenburg, Emma Shaw, Catharine Lloyd, Catharine Danaher, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Grace Glasser, Annie Cavenor, Elizabeth Kirchner, lorantha Semmes, Mary Usselman, Henrie'ta Rosing, Angela Dillon, Emma Gerrish, Alicia Donelan, Anna Cortright, Anna Jones, Ellena Thomas, Agnes Joyce, Josephine Mitchell, Martha Wagoner, Catharine Hoadley, Mary Mullen, Ina Capelle, Mary English, Mary Fitzgerald, Ollie Williams, Annie Hermann, Della McKerlie, Martha Pampel, Mary Hake, Mabel Hamilton, Teresa Zahm, Mary Campbell, Sarah Purdv, Bridget Kelly, par excellence. Misses Louisa Kelly, Ida Fisk, Eleanor Keenan, Anna Woodin, Annie Maloney, Mary ? Birch, Mary Casey, Emma Lange, Adelaide Kirchner, Elizabeth TyaJeii,	Harriet ©ucK, Lucie Qbjiton, Ade?
laide Geiser, Panline Hills, Julia Barnes, Kathleen Wells, Caroline Gall, Ida Torrence, Ellen Kinzie, Ella Cavanagh.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Angela Ewing, Annie McGrath, Marie Dallas, Linda Fox, Charlotte Van Namee, Agnes McKinnis. Johanna Baroux, Ellen Hackett, Lilly Lancaster, Maud Casey, Elise Lavoie, Mary Chirhart, Sabina Semmes, Marie McN. Garrity, Matilda Kildaire, Angela Watson, Annie Leyden, Mary Paquette, Julia Cleary, Elizabeth Consadine, Elise Papin, Isabella Scott, Alice Esmer, Manuelita Chaves, par excellence. Misses Catharine Claffey, Mary Feehan, Laura French, Ada Clarke, Ellen Mulligan, Jessie Pampel, Isabella Hackett, Blanche de Chantal Garrity.
The Notre Dame Scholastic,
PUBLISHED DURING TERM TIME
AT
KOTBE pjLZMZIE, INTZOTA-TSTA..
Subscription, $1.50 per Annum.
—Exhibits more journalistic industry, taste and skill, than any college publication we are favored with.—Manhattan Monthly.
—We wish some of our professional journalists were half as clever as the Editors of The Notre Dame Scholastic, the beautiful little paper published at the University of Notre Dame, Indiana. -Boston Pilot.
—Our brave little college contemporary The Notre Dame Scholastic enters upon its Twelfth Volume. We wish it twelve times twelve of usefulness and prosperity; some one else can take up the wish at that time.—Catholic Universe.
—The rare ability of its editorial articles, the tact and good sense shown in its make up, and the admirable, even elegant character of its contributions and selections, have challenged our admiration, and we watch for its visits with much interest.—St. Joseph Valley Register.
—Although The Scholastic is professedly a college journal, yet its columns abound with varied topics of a useful and enjoyable character which, we are sure, will be just as acceptable to people jostling ’mid the crowd in the great world, as to those surrounded by classic walls.—Catholic Union (Buffalo).
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best Conservatories of Europe.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course. Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Gold Medal for German, presented hy Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger, of Fort Wayne.
Gold Medal for Domestic . Economy, presented hy Right Rev. Bishop Gilmour, of Cleveland.
Gold Medal for French, presented by Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Order of the Holy Cross.
Gold Medal for Drawing and Painting, presented by Dr. Toner, of Washington, D. C.
Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, presented by Mrs. M. Phelan, of Lancaster, Ohio.
Number of teachers engaged in Preparatory, Academical and
Clssical Departments, 14; Modern Languages, 6; Drawing and Painting, 5; Instrumental Music, 10; Vocal Music, 2; Dress-making, plain and fancy needle-work, 7.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address, MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy,
J?ptr? p?me P, 0.,
450
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
A RTHUR J. STACE [of ’64], County Surveyor for _/A_ St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
"Weeklv Newspapers.
THE CATHOEICCOEUMBIAN. published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, §2 per annum. .
.	D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
THE A V JLJ M ARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscripion price, $2.50.
Hotels.
rpHE BOND HOU^E, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich-_L igan. Tree Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.	• '
Book Binders.
ED WARD I*. FL1WN, Plain and Fancy Book-binder. Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
0p/ CAEEING CARDS—no two alike, with name neatly printed, for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
'	Mishawaka, Ind.
0 p' CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic Almanac for 1879. Address
J. A. Lyons,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Attornevs at Law.
BRO WIN «fc HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER	MITCHEEE [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72],
Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
THOMAS B. CETFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FAININTING- & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of 74], Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph Sts., Chicago, DI.
JOBIN F. McHUGH [of’721, Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE	DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and
Wm W., both of ’741, Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa. —
ORVIEEE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61)
Attorney a* Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE «fc MTELARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68). Att’y" at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Ad, miralty. Practice in all tho courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
\UILLIA M J. CL A RKE (of 74) Attorney at Law, VV Room,. 3 &4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JAMES A. O’REILLY-of ’69.—Attorney at Law 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to
JOHN D. McCORMICK-of ’73-Attomey at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
DAINIBL. B. HIBBARD, Jr., (of 70), Attorney at Law. Special attentipn given to Collections. 98 Griswold Street, Detroit, Jugbi^W; ' ’	Eopl4-ly
L	. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 10,1878, trains will leave South Bend : follows:
;	GOING EAST.
I 2 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo9 50; Cleveland 2 30 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11	05 am, Mail.over Main Line,arrives at Toledo,5 25 pm;
Cleveland 10 10 pm; Buffalo, 4 am.
12	16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 540pm. Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo4 am.
O 12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
240 am: Cleveland, 7 <5am; Buffalo, 1 10pm.
4= 50and4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte3 35 am, Chicago 6 am.
5 05 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 20 a m. .
4 50 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 40; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 a m; Chicago. 11 30 a. m.
7 30 and 8 03 a m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
Time Table, in Effect MAY 19, 1878.
Going	North.	STATIONS	Going	South.
1.40 a.m. 12.55 “ 12.28 “ 12.07 “ 11.27 p.m. 10.31 “ 9 55 “ 9.25 “ 9.1'3 “ 8.33 “ 7.52 “ 7.10 “ 6.10 “	3.20 p.m. 2.30 “ 2.08 “ 1.44 “ 1.17 “ 12.10 “ 11.26 a.m. 10.47 “ 10.26 “ 9.56 “ 9.13 “ 8.30 “ 7.25 “	Arrive	Leave. - - Michigan City, - -- - - - LaPorte, - - -- - - Stillwell, - - -- - - - Walkerion, - - -- - - Piymomh, - -- - - - Rochester, - - -- - - - Denver, - - -- - - - Peru, - - - -- - Bunker Hill. - - -- - Kokomo Junction, - -- - - - Tipton,- - - -- - - Noblesville, - - -- - Indianapolis, - - -- - - - Cincinnati - - -- - - Louisville, - - -- -	Saint Louis, - - -	9.35 a.m 10.25 “ 10.45 “ 11.10 “ 11.47 “ 12 40 p.m 1.17 “ 2 00 “ 2.22 “ 3 00 “ 3.38 “ 4.25 “ 5.25 “ 10.00 “ 10.45 “ 7.30 a.m	8.05 p.m. 8 55 “ 9.20 “ 9.47 “ 10.33 “ 11.32 “ 1212 a.m. 12 40 “ 1.01 “ 135 “ 216 “ 3 02 “ 4.00 “ 8.15 “ 8.20 “ 5.00 p.m.
PERU & INDIANAPOLIS EXPRESS.
Leave Peru 6.10 a. m, - - - - Arrive Indianapolis 9.35 a. m-“	“ 9.00 “	- - -	“	“	12.00 noon.
RETURNING
Leave Indianapolis 12 25 p. m, - - - - Arrive Peru 3.50 p. m.
•“	“	1110 “	- - -	“	“ 2 55 a.m.
WOODRUFF’S SLEEPING AND PARLOR COACHES Through to Indianapolis I
Allowing Passengers the privilege of remaining in Car until a Late Breakfast Hour. •
SSFBerths SI.25- Chairs 50 and 25 cents, according to distance.
F. P. Wade,	V. T. Malott,
Gen’l. Pass. Agt., Indianapolis. Gen’l. Manager, ludianapolis
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo', West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at Depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City - nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo.......3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Lon;s Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am
Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line..............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.......................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........7 30 am 9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express....8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation.....................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J, C. McMullin, Gen. Manager. J. Chaiimvn, Qen, Pa§s, Agt,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
451
I
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-JNov- 11. 1877.
	♦Mall	♦Day Express.	♦Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ .Niles .. “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson.... Ar. Detroit		7 00 a.m 9 25 “ 10 45 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 43 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ (i 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 “ ♦Jacrsdn Express. 5 40 a.m 8 40 “ 4 45 p.m 4 30 a.m 6 30 •“ 7 55 “ 10 30 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	19 00 p m 1 15 u 12 35 a m 2 17 “ 4 45 “ 8 00 “
					
	♦Mail	•Day Express.		tPacific Express.	t Evening Express.
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 55 ••	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		9 50 p.m 12 45 a.a 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6 20 p m 9 40 “ 12 35 a m 2 38 “ 4 15 “ 6 45 “
Niles and South Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 pm. “ N. Dame— 8 52 -	6 38 “ Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar.-So. Bend—745 “	4 55 “
^Saturday and Sunday excepted. H. B. Ledyard,
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. Henry C. Wentworth,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl. Gen'l Manager. Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE ’ Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac. Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.	'	•
New York Office. No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House ; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets. For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to	.
W. H. Stennett, . Marvin Hughitt, - • gen, P&58,Chicago,	Manager, Chicago,
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
NOV. 10, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). • On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
		No.l, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,..		11.45 P.M.	9 00 A.M.	1.50 PAL	6.00 A.M.
Rnnhftster. __		12.53 A.M.	10.12 “	2.55 “	7.45 “
Alliance, 				310 “	12 50 p -m	535 “	1100 “
Orrville,			450 “	2.26 “	7.13 “	12.55 p.m.
MAnRfip.ld.			7.00 “	440 “	920 “	311 “
Crestline,....	.. Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline,....	... .Leave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 P.M.	
Forest				925 “	7 35 “	11.25 “	
Lima			10.40 “	9.00 “	12 25 a.m.	
Ft. Wayne,			1.20 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Plvmonth			350 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,.'...		7.00 “	6.00 “	7.58 “	
GOING EAST.
		No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Atlan.Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,.......		9.10 pat.	8.30 A.M.	5.15 p.m.	
Plvmonth			2.46 am.	11.48 “	8.55 “	
Ft. Wayne,			6 55 “	2.25 P.M.	11.30 “	
Lima,			8.55 “	4.20 “	1.30 A.M.	
Forest				10.10 “	5.27 “	233 “	
Crestline,		.Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.05 “	
					
Crestline,		..Leave	12.05 P.M.	7.15 p.M.	4.15 A.M.	6 05 A.M.
Mansfield	 			12.35 “	7.45 “		
Orrvilie,....				2.26 “	9.38 “	7.00 “	9.15 “
Alliance. 	 			4.00 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	11.20 “
Rochester,		_ 		6.22 “	1.20 A.M.	11.06 “	2.00 p’.m.
Pittsburgh,		. Arrive	7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 p.m	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.	'
F. B. MYEBS. G. P & T. A.
INMAN LINE.
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS.
NEW YOBK to QUEENSTOWN and LIVEBPOOL,
Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.	Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491 I CITY OF BRUSSELS, 3775 CITY OF RICHMOND. 4607 ' CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500 CITY OF CHESTER, 4566 I CITY OF PARIS. 3080 CITYOF MON fREAL, 4490 | CITY OF BROOKLYN, 2911 These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G. DALE, Agent.
15 Broadway, New York.
Or to JACOB WILE,
Foreign Exchange and Passage Agent, oct§-ic LaPorte, Indian^	- .
452
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
W. S. Golsen.	D. R. Mullins.
GOLSEN & MULLINS,
Dealers in Chapin & Gore’s
NATIVE AND IMPORTED WINES.
FINEST IMPORTED CIGARS.
K. 13. Cor. ILaSalle <fc Monroe Sts.
Henry Styles, Manager.	Chicago.
122-ly	.
EDWARD BUYSSE
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
A.3STD "
□"IE WELIR/Y".
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
.SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
A MAN
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUNTRY, WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP, THAT THE
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST AND THE WEST!
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs and Omaha, -passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo, Moline, Rock Island, Davenport, West Liberty, Iowa City, Marengo, Brooklyn, Grinnell, and Des Moines, (the Capitol of Iowa) with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon, Belknap, Centreville, Princeton, Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth and Atchison; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Bentonsport, Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville, Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe, and Des Moines; Des Moines, to Indianola and Winterset; Atlantic to Audubon and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad which owns, controls and operates a through line between Chicago and Kansas.
This Company own and control their Sleeping Cars, which are inferior to none, and give you a double berth between Chicago and Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, or Atchison for Two Dollars and FiftyCents; and a section for Five Dollars, while all other lines charge between the same points. Three Dollars for a double berth, and Six Dollars for a section.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Illinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining and Restaurant Cars that accompany all through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents; or you can order what yon like, and pay for what you get.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes, (and the enormous passenger business of this line warranting it,) we are pleased to announce that this Company runs its PALACE SLEEPING CARS for Sleeping purposes, and its PALACE DINING CARS for Eating purposes. One other great feature of
our Palace Cars is a SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your “Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by;this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison, connections being made in Union depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS :
AtCHlCAGO, with all diverging lines for the East and South.
At Englewood, with the Lake Shore & Michigan SouthernandPittsburg, Ft.Wayne & Chicago R. Rds.
At Washington Heights, with Pittsburg, Cincinnati & St. Louis R. R.
At LA Salle, with Illinois Central R. R.
At Peoria, with P., P. & J. ;P., L. & D.; I. B. & W.; Hl. Midland: and T., P. & W. Railroads.
At Rock Island, with Western Union R. R. and Rock Island & Peoria Railroads.
At Davenport, with the Davenport & NorthWestern R. R.
At WEST Liberty, with the Burlington, Cedar Rapids & Northern R. R.
At Grinnell, with Central R. R. of Iowa.
AtDES MOINES, with D. M. & Ft. Dodge R, R.
At COUNCIL Bluffs, with Union Pacific R. R.
At Omaha, with B. & Mo. R. R. R. (in Neb.)
At Columbus Junction, with Burlington, Cedar Rapids & Northern R. R.
At Ottumwa, with Central R. R. of Iowa: St. Louis, Kan. City & Northern and C., B. & Q. R. Rds.
At Keokuk, with Toledo, Peoria and Warsaw; Wabash, and St. Louis, Keokuk & N.-W.R. Rds.
At Beverly, with Kan. City, St. J. & C. B. R. R-
At Atchison, with Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe; Atchison & Neb. and Cen. Br. Union Pacific R. Rds.
At Leavenworth, with K. P. and K. Cen. R. Rds.
P UACE CARS are run through to PEOKIA, UES MOINES, COUNCIL JSLUFFS, ATCHISON and LEAVENWORTH:
Tickets via this Line, known as the “Great Bock Island Boute,” are sold by all Ticket Agents in the United States and Canada.
For information not obtainable at your home ticket office, address,
A..KIMBALL.	.......... jE. ST. JOHN.
'•*	§ea’| Superintended ..	, ' GeinTdpndFass’gr Act.. „
-	•	-	. - •	' ' C^lcan9»Slli