!
Votre Dame Scholastic.
Disco quasi semper viotnriis; vive quasi eras morlturus.
Volume XI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 13, 1877.	Number 7.
tri
Gathers still the sad procession, as the fleet comes slowly nigh, Where the cross above the chapel stands against the northern sky.
Every tribe and every hamlet, from the nooks along the shore, Swell the company of mourners, who shall see his face no more.
Forth, then, thro’ the deepening twilight sounds the service, high and clear,
And the dark-stoled priests with tapers guide and guard the rustic bier.
In the centre of the chapel, close by Little Huron’s wave, Near the tall and stately cedars, Pdre Marquette has found his grave.
Still I hear the Miserere, sounding loud within my soul;
Still I hear the De Profundis, with its solemn cadence roll;
“ For the blood of thy red brother, who shall answer in that day
When before the throne of judgment earth and heaven shall pass away ? ”
August 15th, 1877.
Laughter.
A few days ago the question was asked by a certain intelligent individual, whose wit and judgment are unmatched, what is laughter? Many have defined laughter, but very few have given it anything like a proper, or, at least, a satisfactory definition. Even Webster himself, the so-called spoiler of the English language, has fallen far short of expressing exactly, in plain terms, the definition of the word. But this is excusable, to a certain extent, when we take into consideration the cause that produces this wonderful effect. Whether it comes from a cause or not, seems to be doubtful, for we have persons who are said to laugh, and that, too, to a considerable and perhaps an unpardonable extent, without any apparent cause whatsoever. The majority of mankind have come to the conclusion that such persons as these should by no means be imitated; on the contrary, they have declared them to be for the most part ignorant and good-for-nothing men, who do not know the first principles of politeness. Be this as it may, it is obvious that some persons are more given to laughter than others; but whether such are more foolish or more wise than the rest of mankind is a question that needs probari. The consensus poputorum already quoted concerning it is a sufficient proof. “He laughs best who laughs least” is as old as Jerusalem, and has generally been put in practice by all right-thinking men. It would be a good thing both for lungs and ears if some of our neighbors would “ go and do likewise.” It is a terrible thing to hear some men—young men—giving vent to that inward satisfaction which they feel, by opening their mouths in a most unbecoming manner, and roaring like-----; the difference, if there be any, is only in proportion to the cause. Among the different
Re-Interment of Pere Marquette.
-	A DAY-DREAM FROM POINT LOOKOUT.
BY GEORGE DUFFIELD.
[We are, says the editor of the Ave Maria, under obligations to the author, a Presbyterian minister of Lansing, Mich., for a copy of the following beautiful and appreciative lines on Pdre Marquette, which it affords us much gratification to reproduce in the Ave Maria. May the gifted author, who finds much to admire in the exterior magnificence of the Church, come to see its beauty from within.]	*
i.
Where the gently flowing river merges with the stormy lake, Whereupon the beach so barren ceaseless billows roll and break, There the barque so frail and gallant, known throughout the western world,
Glides into the long-sought haven, and its weary sails are furled.
“Here,” says one, “I end my voyage and my sun goes down at noon;
Here I make the final traverse, and the port comes not too soon;
Let God have ‘the greater glory,’ care have I for naught beside, But to bear the blest evangel, Jesus Christ, the Crucified! ” Slow and faint, into the forest straight he takes his quiet way, Kneels npon the virgin mosses, prays as he is wont to pray, Jfunc dimittis,—then they hear him sweetly sing as ne’er before ; Then the angels join in chorus, and Marquette is now no more. This the prayer he left behind him, ere was said the latest
Mass,
“ One day bear me to my, mission, at the Point of St. Ignace.” Entered into rest from labor, where all toils and tempests cease,
Every sail outspread and swelling, so he finds the port of peace.
n.
Once again, that spot so sacred hears the sound of human feet, And the gently flowing river sees a strange funereal fleet.
’Tis the plumed and painted warriors, of their different tribes the best,
Who have met in solemn council, to fulfil that last request.
Down their cheeks the tears are flowing, for the sainted man of God;
Not the bones of dearest kindred, dear as those beneath that sod. -	'
Reverently the grave they open, call the dear remains^ their own,
Sink them in the running water, cleanse and whiten every bone;
Place them gently in the Mocock, wrought with woman’s choicest skill,
From the birch, the very whitest, and the deepest colored quill. In the war-canoe the largest, to his consecrated tomb, Like a chief who falls in battle, silently they bear him home.
'A -J
98
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
kinds of laughter may be. mentioned the smile, dimplelaugh and horse-laugh. The latter should altogether be avoided, for it becomes not a young man to trespass upon his companions in this way. But you may say a laugh only comes from a good heart. That is generally true. Still we have persons whose hearts are almost too large for the frame that encloses them, who very seldom show any inward pleasure that they may feel except by a smile. It is not our intention to condemn laughing, because it is natural, after all; and, as was said before, generally shows a good and generous heart. ,Still, when carried to excess it is a serious fault, and renders a man of very little worth in the eyes of his companions. You will hear persons who, when they want to tell anything, are laughing all the time; almost at every word there is a sound heard, made by the joy which they experience at their own expressions. They think that their hearer cannot appreciate the narration unless it is accompanied by laughter. This is a fault that cannot be overlooked; and although the hearer may say nothing, stilj he sees the abuse, and almost becomes disgusted with the whole affair. Never laugh at anything you say yourself; leave that to your neighbor or hearer. There are others, again, who glory in considering themselves easily made laugh, and think that they are smart by doing so, and that they will be considered smart for laughing at every little blunder they may hear; even a fault against grammar is remarked by them, and corrected in a somewhat sarcastical manner. Now, it is a very good thing to correct a person’s mistakes provided you are asked to do so, but otherwise you should pass no remarks on them unless you want to hurt the feelings of your companion. Again, never laugh at the mistakes of others; it shows a want of charity. Charity should be practiced; for if charity be wanting, all other good qualities are necessarily wanting. We will expose the manner in which each one should regulate himself in the use of that peculiar expression of the countenance or muscular movement, which has been denied all other animals. For, as Milton says:
“----Smiles from reason flow, to brutes denied, And are of love the food”----
The dimple should be used to give a graceful appearence to the features; to show in a certain sense that the temper is mild and the mind endowed with noble qualities, such as respect, sympathy, etc. It is mostly used by such persons as want to captivate and win the affections of others. The smile should be used in about the same manner as the dimple—for giving a silent approbation to what may be told the person spoken to or addressed. The laugh is used in a more familiar way, between persons on terms of intimate friendship, etc.; and also by those who wish to show that their heart is free from care, or at least not overburdened by it. The horse-laugh is generally used by those who wish silence, or gain a victory over an opponent in any disputed affair—to make him believe that he is vanquished whether he is willing or not. It was formerly practised in England, and some other countries, in coffeehouses, etc., where the person on whom the general laugh turned was considered the beaten party. Such, then, being for the most part the use of laughter, it follows that what has been said should be put in practise by all young men who have never regulated that motion of the physiognomy, according to order—for order is Heaven’s first law.
It has been remarked, too, and that by a great number of men, that the man who is incapable of a hearty laugh is anything but what may be called a good-hearted man. Again,
it has been said that a good hearty laugh is as good both for the constitution and the mind as the compounded prescription of the physician, hence an ingenious author published some years ago a collection of sonnets, entitled “ Laugh and be Fat.” And all who became contributors to this treatise accordingly became dignified by the corpulency which the humorous productions gave them. The story of the cure of the imposthumate man by a sudden fit of laughter maybe also quoted as an instance of its wonderful effect. Democritus was one of those men who owed his enormous size and strength to the exercise of this risible faculty. Juvenal says of him:
“ Perpetuo risen pulmonem agitare solebat.” .
It may be noticed also that that peculiar individual known by the name of Butt indulges to a great extent in this healthful agitative and physiognomical movement, even at his own expense, for not unfrequently he is bound to have a laugh through the blunder of his neighbor or himself. Such men are usually called gooA-hwmored fellows. So much for the present. If part of the foregoing be true, it is no wonder to see some men enjoying good health, for the appearance of their physiognomny often changes, and puts on that which poets love to ascribe to nature when they describe her in her richest attire.
C.C.

Some of St. Mary’s Shrines.
[The following extract from a letter describing the shrines of St. Mary’s was received at that Academy, and has been handed to us for publication.]
“ In the distance was a group of children and Sisters, sketching some object across the river. It was evident they had not noticed the carriage, it being no doubt of hourly occurrence, as the driver informed me of their great number of visitors. Sometimes a merry laugh and snatches of a hymn fell on my ear. How happy they seemed, all around so peaceful and secluded! no sound but the rippling murmur of the water below and the singing of merry birds in the grand old forest trees, which still shade with their grateful foliage this sacred spot. Through a vista among the trees, I caught sight of the well-remembered old Academy. By its side has nestled a pretty little cottage. It looked so restful and picturesque! I turned to look for the little mound surmounted by a statue of the Guardian Angel. Ah! there it stood, but so covered with foliage and creeping plants that it had almost eluded my eager eye. Dear Angel of St. Mary’s! Surely you have guarded well this earthly paradise.- Light steps aroused me from my reverie. Two Sisters approached. I arose, remarking how much I had enjoyed the few remaining points which had interested me many years ago. They offered to conduct me through the new buildings. I thanked them, saying, if it were not too much trouble I should prefer to see some of the numerous places of devotion which the driver had pointed out. “ Willingly,” said one of the Sisters. “This is Mount Carmel, she continued, as we entered the beautiful arbor, large enough to contain some twenty persons. It is built on the bend of the hill, and connects by a half-dozen steps with an octagonal arbor large enough to contain two hundred persons. This charming affair, built high on strong pine piers, hangs as it were on the side of the hill, and commands a beautiful view of the windings of the clear, sparkling waters of the St. Joseph River, with its verdant, fertile groves. It is quite a favorite
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
99
place of resort on account of the fine river scenery. It was "blessed on the Feast of Our Lady of Mount Carmel, hence the name. That plain stretching in the distance is not unlike some of the views in the Holy Land. “ May I ask what that roofed building is—that at the end of the bank ? it must stand on the site of a former little shrine for which I have been seeking in vain.” “That is the Chapel of Loreto. Sit down under the shade of Mount Carmel while I tell you about the Holy House of Nazareth, which was borne by angels from Palestine, and now rests at Loreto in Italy. This Chapel is a facsimile of-that House of our Lady, in which she dwelt when the Archangel Gabriel announced to her the stupendous mystery of the Incarnation.” “ I have read the book written by Bishop Kenrick.” “ Well,” she re plied, “ the house before you is in every detail like the one whose miraculous removal has been proved past doubt, as you know. Our late Chaplain, Reverend Father Gillespie, made his studies in Rome. After bis ordination he visited Loreto, and brought hence all the drawings and measurements necessary to make yonder Chapel a perfect facsimile. He also obtained from the Holy Father all the indulgences which had been granted to the real house, and also partial ones which may be gained at every visit to the Blessed Sacrament, which is always kept in the tabernacle The Societies of the Children of Mary, of the Holy Angels, of the Rosary and Nocturnal Adoration among the Catholic pupils on every Monday throughout the year have the especial privilege of hearing an instruction and assisting at Mass, which is generally said by Very Rev. Father General, in its sacred precincts.” “ You may well say sacred precincts, Sister! No wonder, while resting on the bench below, I felt the influence of peace, and rest the very atmosphere of Mary! ” “You would be still more impressed with that idea if you could witness the many beautiful processions which wind through the paths among the trees and along the bank of the river. Every May morning the Children of Mary walk, singing the Litanies, and finish their devotions by hearing Mass in Loreto. At the close of the month the whole place is illuminated, every building is brilliant with lights, and all the shrines which dot the grounds blaze like planets among the starry lights hanging from the trees, and even among the grass on the ground. Arches decorated with colored lamps, draped with flags, monagrams, pictures, everything that taste and devotion suggest, are erected, through which passes thelong procession composed of all the members of the house.”
Stepping into the holy house a feeling of awe thrilled through my soul. I have visited magnificent cathedrals, and joined in pious devotions in splendid churches, transported thus suddenly from the busy world to this earthly paradise, throwing myself on my knees, no words came from my lips, for two words, “Ave Maria,” high above the altar in golden letters, brought before me the sublime and wondrous message sent by the Archangel to greet the humble Virgin of Nazareth. Never before had I understood the grandeur of her response; and, bowing down, I adored the same Jesus dwelling under the veil of bread who waited for her an swer before taking flesh.
As we left the Chapel the Sister said: “ We have another shrine, the perfect facsimile of Lourdes. It stands between the Convent and the Academy.” “ I shall be delighted to see it; for last week, at Sadlier’s, in New York, I purchased a book, written by Henri Lassere, giving a full description of the Grotto and its history.” “ Indeed! ” replied the Sister; “ our Mother Superior met with the author four years ago
when at Lourdes?” “Did "she witness any of the wonderful miracles which take place so frequently?” “I heard her speak of two to which she was an eye-witness. Mother and the Sister who accompanied her were kneeling in the Grotto one morning, when they heard an old lady say the words: “Je vous salue, 0 Marie!” and the words were hesitatingly repeated after her by a child of eleven years who was born deaf and dumb, and these were the first words it had ever uttered; “Je—vous—salue—0 Marie!” it said distinctly. That morning the grandmother had bathed the child in the fountain, and put some of the water on the little one’s tongue. The people who knew the woman and child entoned the Magnificat™. thanksgiving. Another day a woman, twenty years of age, who had not walked for nine or ten years, after being bathed in the fountain, was instantly cured, and walked up the steep road to the Church of Lourdes, which is high above the rock, thousands of people following, to assist at a Mass of thanksgiving, all joining in the Magnificat, which it is the custom to entone immediately after a miracle occurs. Our Mother Superior had ample opportunity to examine every part of the • world-famed shrine, and ours is correct in every detail, not a crevice even missing. She had the good fortune also to meet at Paris the artist who had made the statue of the Blessed Virgin, which is according to the description given by Bernadette, and now marks the exact spot where the apparitions took place. She immediately ordered one exactly the same size as the one at Lourdes, and a life-like statue of Bernadette, to place in the facsimile she intended to erect, which is just one half the size of the original.”
We had now ascended to a long corridor, which runs the whole length of the edifice, 250 feet in length, and opposite to the grand staircase, in a large alcove fronting, is the Grotto, to all appearance like a rock. From the descriptions I had read, I should have recognized it even if I had not been told what to expect. The entrance is in the shape of a crooked arch; the rock sloping back from the entrance becomes narrower on either side; above, to the right is a niche-like orifice; a wild rose springing from a fissure in the rock at its base; tangled brambles extending their roots into the crevices of the rocks. In the niche is the statue spoken of above. The long white robe falling in folds suffer her feet to appear, reposing on the rock; on each of them is a rose of bright golden hue; a girdle of blue, knotted in front, reaching almost to the feet, and a veil descending as far as the hem of her garment. A chaplet of white beads hang from her hands. Above her head is inscribed in golden letters: “I am the Immaculate Concetion.” (This was the answer given by the Apparition to Bernadette when she asked her name.) Kneeling at the base of the rock is a life-size statue of Bernadette in peasant costume; a dark worn dress, and white capulet which covers her head and falls behind; a kind of kerchief covers her shoulders, sabots on her feet. She looks towards the Virgin, her whole countenance expressive (as mentioned by Lasserre) “ of the majesty of innocence.” In one hand she holds her beads, in the other is usually placed a lighted candle, during novenas which are often asked by devout clients of our Lady, and a lamp is kept burning before the statue for special intentions. An altar is inside the arched Grotto, to represent the one at Lourdes. To the right of the altar, and nearer to the front, is a small receptacle to represent the fountain from which the miraculous water flows. A small iron railing is placed along the whole; on the outside is a stone ledge
100	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
where all who pass kneel for an instant. I was so intent in examining this truthful and beautiful representation that I had not noticed the absence of one of the Sisters, until she came back and placed in my hand a small package, saying : “ Mother Superior begs you to accept, with her compliments, a few vials containing some of the water which, she obtained herself from the fountain at Lourdes.” As we turned to leave, I noticed a box filled with little round bits of pasteboard, each having a number; above was a picture representing the Holy Souls in the flames of Purgatory ; below was a tablet covered with names, and a number by each name. “ May I ask what devotion this is, Sister ? ” She picked up one of the numbers in the box, which I perceived had a partition, and placing it in the empty half, pointed her finger to the corresponding number on the tablet: “ You see, sir, this card contains the names of our members deceased, also deceased parents and relatives of the members of the Order, pupils and benefactors. As we pass the shrine we draw a number and, kneeling at Lourdes, say a short prayer for the soul of the person named. By this - practice, every one of our dear dead is remembered many times through the day.” “The design is something like the Tablets of Honor in the parlor,” said I; “ the same artist, perhaps?” She smiled, and replied: “Our Sisters do all they can. One of them painted the Translation of the House of Loreto on the tabernacle-door; and many of those which decorate the church and elsewhere are the Sisters’ work.”
As we reached the parlor, I remarked a large painting of the Immaculate Conception. “Is this also the work of one your artist-Sisters?” “Yes, it is her own design, based on the idea of the Blessed Virgin listening to the ‘ Definition of the dogma of the Immaculate Conception.’ Love and devotion to our Holy Mother prompted her to embody her thoughts on canvas. Our Mother Superior placed that little lamp before it as an ex-voto.” I had been so absorbed in the picture that the small light escaped my no. tice. “ A generous benefactor sent our Mother sixty of those small lamps for Lourdes,” she continued; “they will be imbedded in moss and placed on the ledges of rock just in front of the statue, where they will burn for twelve hours, or as many hours as desired, for the intentions of persons who ask favors of Our Lady of Lourdes.” Noticing how much we were interested, the Sister said: “ Perhaps you would like to see some of the church vestments we make. If you will step into the work-room I will show you a cope and suit of vestments embroidered in heavy gold on thick white watered silk, to match the cope and Benediction veil, which the Sisters expect to finish for the next Corpus-Christi procession.” “ I never saw more beautiful embroidery; and the emblematic pelican on the cope is charming. You appear to have quite a supply of elegant material for vestments.” “Yes, sir; through the kindness of ladies, who sometimes give their wedding and other rich silks, which are seldom used but once. Mrs. Maitland, of New York, is a great benefactress to our pious ‘ Association to Furnish Poor Churches with Suitable Vestments,’ etc. Would you like to see our lace-makers at work? They are from Brussels; their time is devoted to making real Brussels, Point, and all kind of laces for surplices and all white ornaments.” Saying this, she went to the far end of the apartment and asked the Sisters to show me some of their patterns. I never saw lace of such delicate texture and rare beauty. They sat down to let me watch the operation of making this wonderful work, done entirely by hand, with
cushions and bobbins. The design is marked by pins, around which the numerous little bobbins are thrown with a dexterity far in advance of any pianist in use of fingers which, fairly fly. One was making an exquisite cover for a bourse to go over one of silk; the centre shows the remonstrance above a chalice, surrounded by wheat and flowers, through which winds the passion-flower. The other was making a surplice, and she showed me the elegant edgings and insertions. I enquired how long it would take. “ Six months; for some a year.” “Is not this devotedness!” I exclaimed.
To our regret, the carriage was announced before I had completed my survey of this beautiful department of religious art. “Your visit has not been accomplished,” remarked the Sister; “as you wished to see St. Mary’s shrines, some of the most interesting you have not yet seen. Among them ‘Our Lady of Luxemburg’ and ‘Notre Dame de la Paix’; but as one is in the Novitiate grounds and the other beyond our cemetery, we would not have time to go there to-day.” But before leaving, I asked and obtained permission of my. kind hostess to visit them on my return from the West.	‘	*
Religion in Education.
BY P. J. COONEY.
People at the present day are beginning to awake to the great importance of this matter, owing to the evil influence which its absence for the last thirty years has exercised on society Never was the question more discussed than at the present; and, in fact, never was there more necessity for its serious consideration. To suppose that intellectual culture, without the co-operation of religion, is capable of producing great and good results, is a most egregious error. We need but revert to Greece, the most polished nation of antiquity—at whose tombs Byron received his inspiration, and amid the ruins of whose forum the orators of the modern world learn to sway the souls of men; Greece, prolific in men of genius—in’philosophers, in statesmen and in warriors—possessing such men as Solon, Lycurgus, Socrates, Plato and Demosthenes,—yet wehe ar her bards bewailing in all the grand eloquence of their genius the moral degradation of her people! Notwithstanding the wisdom and sagacity of her statesmen and philosophers,—despite the strongest appeals, the most patriotic harangues and the spirit-stirring philippics of her orators, we have seen Greece tottering, falling into the lowest stage of moral degradation, into the deepest slough of debasement —and to-day, a weak and insignificant country, a few mouldering columns, remain to mark the place where once was to be seen the most polished nation of the world.
Nor was Greece the only nation of which this can be said. There was Rome, once the mistress of the world, within the circle of whose seven hills was nearly all the polish and refinement of Greece,—Rome, too, fell from her lofty pinnacle, down, down into the tomb, the common receptacle of dissolute and corrupt nations. Ah! is not this a sufficient proof that besides arts and sciences, poetry oratory, history, philosophy—although carried to the highest degree of perfection—there is something else required, and without which no nation can gain more than an ephemeral glory ? Yes: there must be some life-giving element coursing from the heart through the veins in order to perpetuate the moral life and civilization of a
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
101
nation,—and that element is Religion, without which all science, all knowledge
“Butleads to bewilder, and dazzles to blind.”
What a striking exemplification of the pernicious consequences of education without religion have we not had in the history of France—and that, too, not many years ago. France, from whose lofty pinnacles of learning shone those beacon lights of intellectual culture and development which dispelled the clouds of darkness and immorality overhanging the surrounding nations—we have seen her refuse to adore God, and prostrate herself in adoration before a harlot, as the high priestess in apotheosis of reason, and exert the highest arts of her genius to re-Paganize the world. Yes: we have even heard one of her most gifted sons, Voltaire, declare in the most horrible and blasphemous terms that he would make a plaything of God.
And in our own day and country do we not see as a natural result of education without religion the abominations of Socialism and Communism, the frightful murders and suicides of almost daily occurrence, the undisguised corruption of our public men, the embezzlement of our public funds, and the quasi legal dissolution of the marriage tie ?
The foregoing should furnish sufficient proofs of the terrible consequences of educating the head at the expense of the heart—the Intellectual nature at the cost of the moral nature, and the sooner the people of this country begin to understand it, the better.
During the first sixty years of their national existence, the United States of America had eclipsed the splendor of the oldest countries of the world—having in that short period, by their achievements, caused the monarchies of the old world to pay them tribute. Contrast America of to-day with the most polished and refined nations of the world, and behold the result—in point of intellect, she is, most undoubtedly, their equal; as regards her power, she is able to cope with the most formidable of them; and so far as progress and advancement are concerned, we have every reason to believe that our country has outstripped them all. This is certainly flattering to all Americans; but while we have reason to feel proud of this, we must at the same time, be pained to observe the giant strides we are now making towards infidelity, and licentiousness. Although we have in a single century attained a greatness that other nations did not acquire only after many hundreds of years, so we have, in the same brief period, become almost as irreligious, aud consequently nearly as corrupt, as those nations had become when they attained the zenith of their power.
To what must we atribute this corruption of morals? Undoubtedly to Godless education. A certain physician, a Protestant, in describing, from a professional point of view, the fast increasing immorality of our country, attributes it to our present irreligious school system. Here is what he says: “ Irreligion and infidelity are progressing pari passu with the advanced guards of immorality and crime, and all are fostered if not engendered by our materialistic system of school instruction. The entire absence of religious instruction from the school room, which has resulted from the utter impossibility of harmonizing the conflicting creeds, is fast producing fruit in a generation of infidels, and we are fast becoming worse than even the Pagans of old, who had at least their positive sciences of philosophy and their religion, such as is it was, to oppose which was a criminal offense.” Is not this sufficient to send a thrill of horror
through the breast of everyone who reads it? and yet, day after day, we behold convincing proofs of the truth of the statement. It appears to be the belief, and a very prevalent one too, of Americans that so long as the intellectual faculties of the youth are cultivated it is sufficient for the production of good citizens, and a sufficient guarantee to the country of the permanency of its institutions. Alas! did not Rome, Troy, Priam and Thebes of old think so ? and now they live only in history. Such also was the belief of Persepolis, and now
“ Yon waste where roaming lions howl,
Yon aisle, where moans the grey-eyed owl, Shows the proud Persian’s great abode, Where sceptered once an earthly god, His power-clad arm controlled each happier clime, Where sports the warbling muse and fancy soars sublime.” This, also, was the belief of all the nations of antiquity, and now th ey are as if they had never been. This country, which was at that time an unknown, a neglected and barren waste in the bosom of a then unexplored ocean, now rises proudly above the waters of the Atlantic, and shows to the nations of the Old World a country that rivals the eloquence of the Grecian and Roman Senates,—that rivals the glory of their arms, the ubiquity of their commerce, the genius of their philosophers, and the writings of their inspired bards. If we would outlive the nations of antiquity, if we would perpetuate to the end of time our glorious Republic, and keep her in the ascendant—if we would even have her reach the years of the Achaean League of old, we must profit by the untimely end of those proud and potent nations which have preceded us. We must recollect that it was owing to their disregard for religion, and the consequent corruption and immorality of their citizens, that they owe their downfall. By so doing we may arrest the evils which now menace our country, and prepare her for a glorious future.
A Few Hints on Fall Work in the Garden.
BY AN AMATEUB.
For those who wish to have a nice garden in the spring this is the proper season to begin their preparations. All the woody stalks of such flowering stock as phlox, lilies columbines, etc., etc., should be cut down; rosebushes out of bloom should be all trimmed down, particularly those kinds that are inclined to send up strong single shoots; these should be cut down to about a foot above ground, for the rose always blooms on new wood. The Prairie Queen is one of our finest roses,—pity it has no perfume. It is a rampant grower, and when it can be placed against a wall with a southern aspect it soon has a beautiful effect.
All weeds should be removed by hand-pulling, if possible, before the seeds fall; if not, the work in the summer will be doubled. Before the frost and snow comes, all dead leaves and other useless things should be taken off, the edgings trimmed and walks raked, so as to leave everything in apple-pie order; this will show that one understands his or her buisness, and acts upon established and sicentific principles. Nothing is more offensive to the eye than to see the walks of a flower-garden in front of a city residence sunk down some six inches below the surface of the beds; an inch or two is all that is required for the edging to keep the clay from falling on the walk. A band of grass, say three inches wide, of that fine soft
102
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
white clovery kind that we see along the sides of country roads, is the very best; avoid the coarse, rampant kind that spreads all over creation as you would a nest of rattlesnakes.
By the close of this month all bulbs should be in the ground, where they will begin to form root and gather strength to throw up a strong flower-stalk in April or May. You can, when the first leaves are only an inch or so over ground, tell the number of blossoms there will be in each clump of tulips in the garden, by observing that it is those little stocks or leaves only that come up double—one little leaf folded within another—that will bloom. Tulips should always be planted in clumps of a dozen bulbs, say a double row of six each side, two or three inches apart in in the row—the row say five inches apart. Open the earth with a small spade, hoe or trowel, three nches deep, loosen the botton well, then taking the largest bulbs between the finger and thumb press them down in the soft clay till the top of the bulb is two inches below the surface. If you have small seedlings drop them between the rows, to grow to be bearing bulbs. Place a stake in the centre of each clump of bulbs to show that the place is occupied, cover all in with earth snugly, and leave the rest to nature They are as hardy as wild ducks; and in March, while the earth is still as hard as a rock, you will see the little red spike peeping up as soon as the snow disappears in spots. If you wish to know how that little tender thing worked its way up through that frozen clay, I must refer you to a higher authority and one having more space at his disposal.
Bulbs planted in the spring will not bloom that year, as they have not time to form roots before blooming time; except gladiolus or sword-lilies which will not stand the frost. They bloom late. All the lily tribe are very hardy and make a fine show.
It is a source of great trouble to persons possessing a garden lot not to know where they can send for such gar den stock as they may wish to have for their gardens at the proper time or season, and countless gardens have to run wild on that account, when otherwise a few dollars’ worth of plants or seeds would cheer the hearts of their owners and those of the neighbors and passers-by. The writer received a few days ago four catalogues, three from those eminent florists and nurserymen, Messrs. Storrs, Harrison, and Co., Painsville, Lake Co., Ohio. Nos. 2 and 4 relate entirely to the flower-garden, and are beautifully illustrated; No 1 to the orchard, shrubbery, and fruits. The other is the catalogue of E. P. Barnum, of Detroit, Michigan, being a beautifully illustrated list of his wire flower-pot stands for parlor use, which are very handsome. Every article in these catalogues is priced, with full directions for ordering. The catalogues are sent free on application, a three cent-stamp being inclosed to pay postage.
Scientific Notes.
—The centennary of Hans Christian Oested, the discoverer of the laws of electro-magnetism, was celebrated in Denmark, Aug. 14.
—Mr. Layard, the British Ambassador at Constantinople, has obtained a firman from the Sultan allowing excavations at Nineveh.
—The largest aquarium-tank iq the world is now in the Westminster Aquarium, at London. It is 150 feet long, twenty feet broad, and has a capacity of 94,000 gallons.
—Among the ancient copper instruments collected for the State Historical Society of Wisconsin, by its Secretary,
Porf. J. D. Butler, is a copper axe, weighing four pounds twelve and one-quarter ounces,—the heaviest prehistoric object of copper hitherto discovered.
—Mr. S. E. Cassino has projected the publication of a popular illustrated work on • American ferns. The drawings will be from sketches by Mr. J. H. Emerton, and the text of Prof. Eaton. The phites will be colored, and the work is promised at a low price.
—Prof. O. C. Marsh has described a fossil lizard found in a bed on the eastern side of the Rocky Mountains, which proves to be the largest land-animal yet known to science. It must have been from fifty to sixty feet in length, and was probably a herbivorous reptile.
—A deposit of fine white marble with amber-colored veins has been discovered at Tehachepa, Kern County, Cal. It is said to be identical with the ancient yellow marble of Italy, which is highly prized by antiquarians, but the original source of which has been for centuries unknown.
—A large number of rattlesnakes, nesting in the homes of the burrowing owl, have been killed on the Staked Plain by Lieut. C. A. H. McCauley. He examined the contents of their stomachs, but in no instance found that they had fed on the birds with whom they were domesticated.
—In Southern California the tomato is perennial. A vine in Los Angeles has been trained over the sunny side of a house, and is now twenty-five feet high. It has blossoms and at the same time fruit in all stages of growth. In San Bueneventura, a grapevine planted seventeen years ago measures forty inches around the stem, and covers an area of about eighty feet. It yields an annual crop of about 1,000 pounds, single clusters averaging three and a half pounds.
—In the proceedings of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences, Mr. Joseph Willcox makes an interesting observation on the crow-blackbirds of Florida. He noticed a commotion among the birds on the bank of a river, and, seeking the cause, saw a large bass chasing a school of small fry, which in their desperate efforts to escape, jumped out of the water, and some of them so far as to land on the shore. The blackbirds, eagerly watching the operation, as though familiar with the results, seized upon the unhappy fish before they could make their way back to the water, and swallowed them with relish.
—A German zoological gazette announces that in the caves of Pappenheim, near Solenhofen, Ernst Haeberlein has discovered a second specimen of .the arclueopteryx lito- ■ graphica, the first specimen of this extraordinary bird of the antediluvian era. It was found by him nearly twenty years ago. The second specimen is much more complete, its head being very well preserved. The curious fossil, long a subject of study for naturalists, is half reptile, half bird. From traces left on the stones, displaying clearly the wings and vertebrae, it is proved that this animal had a genuine tail like that of a mole, as long as its body, formed by twenty diminishing vertebrae covered with feathers.
Art, Music and Literature.
—	More American books are getting reprinted in London than formerly.
—	A new and extended edition of John R. Bartlett’s “Americanisms” is promised.
—	M. Lionel has lately presented a fair example of the painter Constable to the Louvre.
—A new life of Genghiz Khan, from Chinese sources, by Prof. Douglas, is in Trubner’s London press.
—Walter Shirlaw is to be Professor of Drawing and Painting at the Art-Students’ League, New York, this winter.
—The excavations at Delos for the purpose of revealing the ancient Temple of Apollo have been suspended for the present season.
—A new critical biography of Shelley, with what are called fresh information and incidents, is being prepared by Mr. George Barnett Smith.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.’
103
—Dr. Leopold Damrosch is organizing an orchestra with which he is to give a symphony matinee every Satur-pay during the coming season.
—Prof. Max Muller has returned to Oxford, and is busy editing the universal collections of scriptures, in English translations, which he has undertaken.
—The Municipality of Berne has refused an offer of 500,-000 francs by a Paris museum for the tapestries taken from Charles the Bold at the battle of Morat.
—Farquhar’s “Inconstant,” a comedy written over a century ago, has been adapted by Boucicault for Lawrence Barrett, who put it on the stage in Louisville.
—The fresh pictures of the French artists will be hung in the Salon of 1878, and the best of those heretofore exhibited will be placed in the Paris Exposition.
—Mr. J. R. Green's new “ History of the English People,” which will be in four volumes, will cover the whole period from the Roman occupation down to the year 1870.
—The new work of Ambroise Thomas, “ Francois de Rimini,” will not be given at the Paris Grand opera this winter, owing to the engagements of Capoul, who is to create the tenor role.
—Gerome has finished the clay model of the group of two gladiators taken from his famous picture, “ Pollice Verso.” The work will be cast in bronze, and placed in the coming Exposition.
—The late Henry D. Thoreau, philosophical Yankee and poet of Walden Pond, will form the subject of a forthcoming book by H. A. Page, an English writer, entitled “Thoreau ; His Life and Aims. A Study.”
—Dr. Joyce, of Boston, author of “ DeirdrS,” which remains the only poem yet in the No-Name Series, is at work on another epic, whose theme is the ancient days of the Isle of Man, full of curious history and ghostly mystery.
—We are to have a new book on China, being a thorough history of the laws, manners, and customs of the people, by Archdeacon Gray, who has lived in China ’ twenty-five years. It will be illustrated by Chinese artists.
—The fine group of St. John, which, was molded in clay by Thorwaldsen, and set above the entrance of the True Church at Copenhagen, has been copied in marble by Danish sculptors, to insure its preservation. The copy is to replace the original piece.
—Rev. Samuel Manning has written “ American Pictures, Drawn with Pen and Pencil,” describing our country in a genial aud pictorial spirit. Dr. Manning pronounces the scenery of the Hudson river on the whole superior to that on the Rhine or Danube.
—The Corcoran Art-Gallery will soon be in possession of the picture, by George H. Boughton, of Washington Irving’s old Dutch Governor of New York, Wilhelmus Kleft, known as William the Testy. The work was ordered by the Trustees of the Gallery and has stimulated the best efforts of the artist.
—A monument has been lately raised to the memory of Jordaens, at his burial-place in Putte, Holland. It consists of a bronze bust of the painter on a square pedestal with caryatides, and an inscription stating that the work was raised by private subscription during the tercentenary of Rubens in Antwerp.
—At Rue Fortuny and Avenue de Villiers, Paris, the French architect Escalier is erecting a house for Bernhardt, the actress. The style is that of the Renaissance, adapted to modern uses. One of the most important things is a large studio, enriched with beautiful furniture, fabrics, and decorations.
—Wilkie Collins has made a drama out of his “ Moonstone;” not a melodrama, as one would expect from the character of the story, but a comedy, founded solely on the episode of the robbery of Miss Verinder by her somnambulistic lover. It seems to meet with a good degree of suc-’ cess in London, where they are playing it at the Olympic theatre.
—The certificate of baptism of Rubens has lately been discovered. It is dated at Bois-le-Duc, Flanders, 1594. It says that Pierre Paul Rubens, then 17 years of age, could not be baptized at his birth because he was born in a district occupied by Protestants. This tends to refute the belief that the great painter was born in Antwerp, where his tricentennial anniversary was held in August.
—A reason why the Forrest Home for Decayed Actors has no more than five inmates is that there is no ready money to carry out the provisions of the will. Mrs. Sinclair was paid §90,000 in lieu of dower, and the bulk of the property left by Forrest was in real estate. That in Philadelphia is in a dilapidated condition, and the taxes upon it are heavy. The real estate in Cincinnati cannot be sold for its original cost, and the same may be said of the other real property. The Clipper says that the Rev. Mr. Alger was paid §7,000 for his services as a biographer, and that he presented a written order for that amount (signed by Forrest during his lifetime) to the executors of the will; also, that the executors were obliged to pay the publisher of the work §2,000 before he would issue it.
—A Paris paper gives the following particulars on trade in books in ancient times: “The book trade was highly esteemed. The shop of a librarian in Athens was a place of meeting for the idle and for wits. There the author of the latest publication gave a public reading of it; literary, artistic, and even political matters were discussed without the slightest molestation on the part of the police. Hence the taste for and the price of books went up. Pythagoras’s treatises were sold for 9,147 francs for single copies; it was the material upon which books were written that made them then so dear. Tne prices fell when the secret of parchment was found out. At Rome the book stores were kept in perfect order and with a certain elegance, like our own. Inscriptions and notices covered the exterior of the shops; inside the volumes were carefully classified on shelves, called nidi."
Books and Periodicals.
Die Tochter des Kunstreiters. Ein Roman von Ferdinande Freiin von Brakel. Coin am Rhein. 1876. Verlag von J. P. Baekam.
Rarely has a romance of a religious tendency received such a general approval as this. It made its first appearance in the feuilleton of the Kolnische Volkszeitung, one of the leading Catholic newspapers of Germany. The authoress, whose first literary production this charming tale chances to be, has wou by it a name which not only places her upon a level with the distinguished writers of her own country, but also, as the English translator, Princess Liechtenstein, remarks, ranks her equal to such eminent writers as Lady Fullerton in England, and Mrs. Craven in France. We need not wonder, therefore, at the general approval her work, and, we may add, the English version, under the title of “ Nora,” has met with from critics both in Germany and England. To our knowledge, the first, edition of "Die Tocfder des Kunstreiters" in book form, published by the proprietor of the Kolnische Volkszeitung was sold in less than eight months, and a second edition has been advertised. The English translation is published by Messrs. Burns & Oates, in London, who have had the kindness to send advanced sheets to the Rev. Editor of the “ Ace Maria" thus enabling our cotemporary to give American readers the benefit of this really charming tale. Much is said in favor and in deprecation of novels of a religious character. We will not enter into controversy on the subject, but only remark briefly that the efforts of our leading Catholic book-firms, such as Murphy & Co., the Catholic Publication Society, Kelly & Piet, Benziger Bros., Fredrick Pustet, and others, to satisfy the cravings of the public for entertaining literature, have been approved even by the highest ecclesiastical authorities. It is a real necessity to counteract the publication of pernicious works from the anti-Catholic press. By the publication of light reading with a Catholic tendency no injury is done to religion and morals; on the contrary, much good is effected, much evil is prevented.
104
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, OctoTser 13, 1877.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame Ind., and of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
Choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Lit erary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.	■
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.	•
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, §1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
A Common Vice.
We doubt whether among the many vices which hold sway among the people, there is one so common as that of profane swearing. Indeed it seems to be the vice of men in every grade of society, and wherever one may go he is in danger of having his ears shocked by some one or other who calls upon his Maker’s name with an irreverence one would-scarcely expect from an out-and-out infidel. Without the least semblance or shadow of reason, the sacred Name of the Creator is brought in, sometimes even by those of the better class of society, to express every passing passion or emotion of their souls. In all places and at all hours of the day we hear the Holy Name of God taken in anger or in jest.
This is not a vice common to one country alone. People of all nations are given to it, so that it may be called one of the great vices of the age. It is, besides, a vice which is not only offensive to God but repulsive to man—at least to those possessing any refinement of feeling or delicacy of conscience,—therefore strenuous efforts should be made by all addicted to it to overcome this evil and ugly habit—for an evil and an ugly habit it certainly is. Were we inclined to speak of it from a religious point of view, we might give here a long sermon on the evil effects of profane swearing. But it is not our intention to do so. Every one knows, for he has heard it from the many pulpits throughout the land, on occasions without number and with an eloquence which we do not possess, that it is the duty of all Christians to glorify the Name of God with their tongues; that His mercies should be extolled, and that our words and deeds should be for His greater honor, Every one has heard and knows that man should live as becomes the child of God, and that it is written of those who do not lead such a life that “through them the Name of God is blasphemed.” In his childhood he has read in the
decalogue: “Thoushalt not take the Name of the Lord thy God in vain,” and, as he grows older, this command given by God on the mountain to His servant, is impressed on his mind by teachers in class-room and in pulpit. He j knows the terrible judgments which God will execute upon ] him who is so audacious as to use that Name—which He demands shall be glorified—in an irreverent and contemptuous manner. Everyone knows these things; small use, then, there is for us to call upon the swearer to give up the vile and wicked custom of swearing because of them.
But if the reasons given by the preacher have no weight with the young man who has given way to the practice, there are other considerations which, though less weighty and less worthy, nevertheless may persuade him to abandon it. There are few, if any, young men who’ do not wish to be considered gentlemen. Whether they really be gentle in manners, they desire to be thought so, and one of the greatest insults you can offer to any man, no matter what may be his character, no matter how steeped in vice, is to say that he is no gentleman. But how can he who is given to the habit of cursing and swearing by the Holy Name claim any title to such an appellation, since it is impossible for a man to be a gentleman and yet be one who is given to profane swearing ? He is the real gentleman—he alone has a right to that grand title—who on all occasions makes it his purpose never to wound the feelings of his companions in any way, and the blasphemer does wound the feelings of all who in their hearts have the least reverence for their Creator; hence he cannot claim any title to the grand old name of gentleman.
It is related of a Senator of Ohio, now dead, who was was known to be a thorough Atheist, that on one occasion when he 'heard his son taking the Name of God in vain, he called this son to him and rebuked him, telling him never again to be heard swearing. “But,” said’the son, “ how is it that you,’ who do not believe in the existence of a God, rebuke me for taking His Name in vain ? ” The father answered that it was because no gentleman was ever guilty of such a practice.
Let every one remember what feelings of disgust enter into his inmost soul when he hears a curse or blasphemy fall from the lips of a woman. And if it be unladylike in a woman to swear, is it not also ungentlemauly for a young man—or an old man either—to do so? What would be thought of the man who would utter a blasphemy in the presence of a lady? yet, is not the same thing to be thought of the man who unblushingly uses the Name of God profanely in the presence of his fellow-men ?
Use, then, no words, on any occasion, which you would not use before the most refined ladies. Let everyone remember that if be would be considered a gentleman he must act as a gentleman, and abstain from the nearest approach to profanity.
The Pilgrimage to Notre Dame on Rosary Sunday.
Pilgrimages are as yet but little known in this country. Perhaps by a great number of the American people they are still less understood. They read of great pilgrimages in Europe—in France, Spain, Italy and Germany, but more particularly in France of late years, owing to the extraordinary occurrences at La Salette and Lourdes, which stirred up the popular devotion, and led the people in thousands and hundreds of thousands to visit those sacred
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	105
places where the Mother of God had shown herself to innocent children. And the newly awakened faith and devotion of the people visiting those places has been so wonderfully rewarded as to excite the fervor of Catholics throughout the world. Only a week or two ago we had accounts in the newspapers of twenty miraculous cures in one day at Lourdes, granted to the members of the great national pilgrimage from Paris. Many of those cured were people who to all appearance had run their sands of life to the end, for on their way to Lourdes they were supposed to be sinking from exhaustion and had received the last Sacraments on the cars. On their arrival at Lourdes the cures were instantaneous and perfect, leaving not a shadow of doubt on the minds of even the most incredulous as to their being wholly miraculous. On the 3d of July, last year, the day on which the statue of the Immaculate Conception was crowned at Lourdes, while three little girls from the viilage of Marpingen, in Germany, were gathering whortleberries in the neighborhood of the Hartlewood, they were favored with an apparition of the Blessed Virgin, who in answer to their questions said she was "Die unbefleckt Empfangene," literally “the spotless conceived, one,” or the Immaculate Conception. These apparitions were repeated for the space of two months, and hundreds of diseased persons who had been conducted by the children to the apparition were miraculously cured. The Apparition was seen frequently from the 3d to the 11th of July, when other cures were performed in a similar way, the children conducting the sick to where they saw the Apparition, and touching their hands to her feet. Her face, they saidt was radiant as the sun. On the 12th of July, pilgrims to the number of 20,000 thronged the little streets of Marpingen, and the place of the apparition was constantly besieged by at least 3,000 pilgrims. On the 12th of July the children were engaged from 8 in the morning until 11 at night in laying the hands of the sick on the feet of the Blessed Virgin and telling them the “penance” of prayers enjoined by our Blessed Lady in return for their cure. Owing to the excessive heat, the children fainted several times, and were carried to an open space where they could breathe a little fresh air. They found hardly time to eat the meals which were sent them from the village. In this respect, however, they fared better than thousands of pilgrims who, the whole day long, had not a crust of bread. Such was the beginning of the great Marpingen pilgrimage, such the reward which the Holy Mother of God vouchsafed to the suffering who visited the favored spot chosen by her, and had recourse to her through the agency of the innocent children who had the privilege of beholding her. N otwithstanding the opposition of sceptical persons in power, the miraculous water continues to flow at Lourdes, and notwithstanding the interference of Bismark’s soldiers at Marpingen the wonders of healing continued, and may continue if the people there are true to God and themselves.
The extraordinary events above related have reanimated in no small degree the devotion of Catholics to the Holy Mother God in this country, and pilgrimages have begun here, although as yet on a comparatively limited scale. On the 4th Sunday after Easter, the Feast of the Consolatrix Afflictorum, patronal of the city of Luxemburg, a pilgrimage of several parishes took place to the Chapel of our Lady at Carey, Ohio, headed by their pastors, and on Rosary Sunday every year there is a pilgrimage here to Notre Dame from the neighboring parishes of Mishawaka,
South Bend, etc. This pilgrimage was initiated three years ago by Rev. Father Oechtering, the energetic and devoted pastor of St. Joseph’s Church, Mishawaka, and his congregation was the year following joined by the parishes of South Bend and Lowell. It was truly edifying to witness the long line of pilgrims, headed by their pastors, as they filed along the avenue and entered the church.
This year the weather on the morning of Rosary Sunday.
seemed very unpropitious. It continued to rain slightly during the early morning hours, but about 9 o’clock the weather cleared, the clouds dispersed, and about half-past 10 the pilgrimage reached the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, where solemn High Mass was sung for the pil grims by Rev. F. Oechtering, with Rev. Fathers Kelley and Gleason as deacon and subdeacon. As the Holy Angels’ Sodality, with their beautiful banners, filed into the Sanctuary the church was crowded to its utmost capacity. There were probably, notwithstanding the threatening aspect of the weather, between 1500 and 2000 persons present in the church, the students having High Mass celebrated for them at 8 o’clock in order to leave the church exclusively to the pilgrims. The singing at the pilgrims’ Mass was by the Mishawaka choir, one of the best in the State of Indiana, under the leadership of Prof. Henry Winkeler. The Mass prepared for the occasion was Stehle’s Prize Mass, Salve Regina, but owing to the illness of some of the members of the choir it was replaced by the Gregorian Missa de Beata Maria Virgine. An “Aw Maria ” for four voices, by Ett, was sung at the Offertory, and a “ Venie Creator" by Kaim, before the sermon. The latter—also for four voices—is a more than ordinarily fine piece of music, full, round, and rich in harmonious expression, and the manner in which it was was rendered reflects credit on both choir and leader.
After the Gospel, Rev. Father Walsh, C. S. C., VicePresident of the University, preached an able sermon, in which he dwelt at considerable length on the doctrine of intercessory prayer on which is founded the devotion of Catholics to the Blessed Virgin and Saints, and from which pilgrimages are an outcome. He showed clearly, from various passages both of the Old and New Testaments, that the doctrine of intercessory prayer was held both by the prophets of the Old Law and the Apostles of the New Law, that it was a part of the Divine Economy, and that therefore that it was both reasonable and beneficial. He cited many quotations and examples from Scripture showing the great regard in which intercessory prayer was held by Almighty God, for instance Genesis, xlviii, 15,16; Exodus, xxxii, 11,14; Kings vii, 8-10; Job xlii, 7, 8; Zacharias, i, 12; Josue v, 14; Ezechiel, etc.; Luke xvi, 9; Corinthians xii, 8,- Apocalypse, v, 8, etc.
In the afternoon the pilgrims paid a visit to the fac-simile Chapel of the Portiuncula, or Our Lady of the Angels, in order to gain the great indulgences attached to the annual visit to the chapel, after which they again assembled in the Church at half-past two o’clock, for the Rosary and the Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament. After the Rosary a beautiful German motett in four parts, O Du Hedigste, arranged for the music of Greith’s O Sanctissima, was given by the choir, and was beautifully rendered. Kaim and Greith evidently well deserve the high place given them in the catalogue of the St. Cecilia Society, if the Veni Creator and O Sanctissima of Rosary Sunday are any index to their other compositions. The O Salutaris and
106
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Tantum Ergo were also Cecilian, composed by Prof Sing-enberger.
After Benediction Rev. Father Oechtering intoned the Te Peum Laudamus in Latin, in a loud, clear voice that rang in clarion tones through the church, after which the choir and the congregation burst forth in grand harmonious strains with the German paraphase of the Hymn of Praise: “ Grosser Gott, wir loben Eich / ” It were futile to attempt to describe the grand effect produced by the hundreds of strong and well-trained voices swelling forth this hymn; all we can say is, judging from the effect it produced on us, that we think there was more heart than voice in it, although the share of the latter was beyond question. After this, Rev.lFather Oechtering re-formed his ranks for Mishawaka, and the weather continued fine until all had reached their homes. Thus ended the Rosary Sunday Pilgrimage of 1877. May it be our happy lot to witness many more like it.
Personal.
—Michael Foley, of ’75, is still at St. Mary’s Seminary, Cleveland, Ohio.
—Mrs. Rhodius, of Indianapolis, was visiting her son George this last week.
—Rev. Father Marine, C. S. 0., of New Orleans, La., has been spending a few days at Notre Dame.
—John D. O’Hara, who was a student iu the Commercial department in ’72, is now connected with The States newspaper, Chicago, Ill.
—Stacey Hibben, of ’68, spent a few days at Notre Dame this last week. Mr. Hibben is married, and settled at Albion, New York. He looks the very picture of health. ,
—Thomas Hansard, of ’75, is studying law at Cleveland, Ohio. Tom is also a notary public. He expects shortly to enter the matrimonial state, and we wish him all joy.
—Mr. Owen Farrelly, city agent of the Chicago Pilot, visited Notre Dame at the beginning of the week. Mr. Farrelly is a brother of the general manager of the American News Company.
—Rev. Martin Noll, of Elkhart, Ind., and Bro. John, of the Alexian Hospital, Chicago, were at Notre Dame, Tuesday and Wednesday. The Alexian Brothers have a noble work in Chicago, and Bro. John is a fine representative of his Congregation.
—David J. Wile, of ’72, visited Notre Dame on the 9th. Mr. Wile is the junior partner in the law firm of Osborne, Calkins & Wile, of Laporte, Ind. The senior partner was for some time on the bench of the Supreme Court of Indiana, and Mr. Calkins is Congressman from this district.
—The free exhibition of Signor Gregori’s works, at No. 231 Wabash Avenue, is one of the most interesting places to spend an hour in the study of art that it has been our pleasure to encounter for a long time. The portraiture, sacred decorations and landscape work represent a style of advanced art-work not to be seen in any other spot this side of Italy, Signor Gregori’s home. By all means, every lover of art should visit this free exhibit. The painter of the pieces is now engaged in sacred decorations at the celebrated Notre Dame buildings, in South Bend, Ind.—Chicago Journal.
—A correspondent of the Cincinnati Enquirer, writing from Chicago, speaks in high terms of Prof. Gregori, the distinguished artist who has been working for the past three years at Notre Dame. About the painting of the church here, the writer says it is “ a task of such' magnitude that it fills us with astonishment to know that, besides fulfilling it, he has found or made time to paint several life-size portraits and a number of exquisite genres. His frescoing is done, not in the modern fashion of simply painting on dry walls in oil or water-colors, but in wet plaster, the old and more difficult style, very little of which is done iu this country.” After speaking in glowing terms
of the different paintings in Signor Gregori’s free Exhibition in Chicago, the correspondent says: “ In personal appearance Professor Gregori shows the Italian gentleman, of fine appearance, with fiery, dark eyes and white hair, and, with the vivacity of his race, in conversation he is a more than usually attractive man.”
Local Items.
—Everything pursues the even tenor of its way at the Manual Labor School.
—Overcoats, cloaks and shawls were brought into requisition during the week.
—The bat and ball were laid aside during the cold spell and foot-ball substituted.
—The prefects speak in flattering terms of the boys in their department this year.
—The cold, raw, rainy weather on Wednesday put a stop to base-ball, and kept the students in the recreation-halls.
—The Psalms sung at Vespers to-morrow are those of the Common of the Blessed Virgin Mary, page 36 of theVes-peral.
—Let every one desiring extra copies of the next Scholastic leave their orders at the Students’ or the Scholastic Office.
—At the sixth meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club, Essays were read by Messrs. Luther and Fischel.
—The cold, or rather chilly weather, at the beginning of the week, caused the first use of steam for heating purposes this year.
—Why was there such a run on the Scholastics last week? Was it because there was an extra number on the roll of honor ?
—The Orchestra will soon commence rehearsals of the overtures to Semiramis, Martha, Marriage of Figaro, and Peter Schlyml.
—The Seniors are thinking of starting a “ nine-pin alley” for winter amusement. Go in for the pins, but look out for your shins.
—Work has begun on the church at St. Joseph’s Farm. The church was much needed, and will prove advantageous to those residing in the neighborhood
—The Juniors had last week the required number on the roll of honor, and received the promised reward, “rec.,” at meals on Wednesday and Sunday evening.
—The Weekly Visitor, of Providence, R. I., comes to us this week in an enlarged form. The Visitor is a diocesan apper, edited in a manner such as to command success.
—Every one should remember, for we don’t know when one may not come upon us, that a good dose of water will cure the worst fit imaginable.
—Sixty Juniors went nutting on the 7th inst. They returned in the evening with over fifteen baskets of nuts. Masters Hagan and Donnelly had a basket and a half between them
—The sixth regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association took place last Saturday. Messrs. F. Cavanaugh and J. Perea delivered declamations. Essays were read by Messrs.' A. Widdicombe and R. P. Mayer.
—The new dormitory for the Minims is now ready and taken possession of; it is just above their study-hall and will prove very convenient. Brother Albert, the Minims’ prefect, has now quite a large department to look after.
—There are more music pupils this year than for many years past. We are glad to see this. Music furnishes a fine source of social amusement for winter-nights and spare hours in after years.-
—Not a single copy of last week’s Scholastic remained in the office on Saturday evening, notwithstanding the large number printed. We hope those desiring an extra number will hereafter give word beforehand.
—We wish that every one sending us news items would make them strictly correct. When we receive two or three
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	107
versions of the same occurrence it is impossible for us to tell which is the correct one.
—On Friday afternoon, the 5th inst., was witnessed one of the most closely contested games of foot-ball that has taken place in the Senior department for some time. The captains of the respective sides were Messrs Cooney and Luther. Cooney’s side came off victorious.
—Of the lectures lately published, there is none which have given us more pleasure than that of Rev. J. F. Callaghan, of the Catholic Telegraph, lately delivered in Cincinnati. The Telegraph, an able and staunch defender of truth, is the oldest Catholic paper in the United States.
—We are pleased to see that our friend the Catholic Universe has come out in a new dress, an evidence of pros; perity. The Universe has long held an honorable place in , Catholic newspaperdom, and it will, under its present man' agement, maintain it
1	—Extra recreation at table is promised the Juniors on
; condition that the roll of honor is unusually large—the ; number of these extra recreations depending on the num' her of names on the roll of honor. The Juniors received the announcement with much applause, and they will, ' no doubt, endeavor to avail themselves of the promised . privilege.
/	—The fifth regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philo-
' patrian Society was held on the 4th inst. Messrs. Gibbons, Haffner, Lamar, and Vanmourick were elected members.
; Declamations were delivered by Messrs. Lamar, Gibbons, Abrahams, Pleins, Buerger,Pennington, Lang, Seivers, and Walters. Master McCarthy was elected to the office of Promoter.
—On the 5th a very interesting game of foot-ball was played on the Juniors’ campus between Seniors and Juniors —the Seniors coming oft- second best. Among those who distinguished themselves for good playing were Messrs. Cooney, Williams, Nodler, Keenan, Campeau and Hale, of the Seniors, and Messrs. Sugg, Keenan, L. Seivers, Walsh, | Bannon, Healey, Burger, and Larkin, of the Juniors.
|	—The Orchestra is composed of the following members:
g B. Leopold, J. P. McHugh, and A. K. Schmidt, 1st vio-IEt lins; A. Sievers, P. Schnurrer, and J. Rothert, 2d violins; I	B. Basil, viola; J. A. Burgpr, clarionet; L. Evers and J.
i Houck, cornets; H. Maguire and M. Lauth, French horns; I J. Walters, violoncello; A. Lilly, doublebass. There may t be other performers, but their names were not given to us. ?	—We will give a full account of the celebration of St,
[ Edward’s day in our next issue,—of the evening’s enter-i tainment, the boat-race, the out-door sports and everything, j Parties desiring extra copies of next week’s Scholastic g	should leave word at the Students’ Office. Unless we are
I	notified that extra copies are desired we will print only the
| usual number.
'	—The congregational singing in the church on Sunday
has decidedly improved of late. With a little more practice they may be able to reach the degree of success at;	tained last year, which certainly was no mean one. Even
i	as it is, many visitors have been heard to speak in terms of
high praise of it. We would be glad to see the students
7	and others j oining in the Asperges at Mass, and the JDomine,
| ad adjuvandum at Vespers, as well as in the responses.
I	—The Weekly Union, of New York city, has lately been
| added to our exchange list. The Union is the official | paper of the American Catholic Temperance Union, and I the fact that that organization is able to sustain a weekly [ newspaper speaks well not only for the intelligence of the । members of the Temperance Union, but also for the news-I paper itself. The Weekly Union is indeed well edited, by । live men.
I ■	—The proprietors of the Boston Pilot, Most Rev. Archb’p
r Williams and Mr. J. Boyle O’Reilly, have declared a |	second dividend of ten per cent, to be paid to the creditors
J	of Mr. Patrick Donahoe, the late publisher. We are
| pleased to record both the generous spirit of the proprietors I and this sign of the journal’s prosperity. The Pilot is an 1*	excellent family paper and deserves the patronage of all
classes of people.
—The Juniors are reading “Excelsior,” in the refectory, and judging from the way in which the reading is listened
to, and the raising of heads and smiles at the many happy illustrations in it, the book is as much enjoyed by the older students as by those who hear it read for the first time. This is more particularly the case when there is a good reader at the stand, for everything is then so clear, notwithstanding the clatter of knives and forks, that the reading gives zest to the meal.
—The University B. B. C. was organized on October 5th. The following officers were elected: Director, Bro. Theodore, C.S.C.; Secretary, J. Fitzgerald; Treasurer, J.Cooney; Captain, H. Whitmer; Field Captain, E. Fishburn; Censor, J. Steward. The following are the positions of the players: H. Whitmer, catcher; J. Stewart, pitcher; E. Fishburn, short-stop; J. Fitzgerald, 1st base; J Cooney, 2nd base; W. Farrar, 3rd base; J. English, left field; J. Price, centre field; 0. Rettig, right field.
—We feared there would be no pilgrimrge to the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart and the Portiuncula on Rosary Sunday, for on Saturday evening and Sunday morning there was every indication of rain. Many were, no doubt, deterred from coming from this fact, but about 8 or 9 o’clock on Sunday morning the weather cleared, and Rev. Father Oechtering’s and Father Czyzewski’s congregations reached here in procession about half-past ten. The weather continued fine ail day, and the pilgrims seemed to enjoy the visit. It was very edifying.
—The second regular meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary was held on Thursday, Oct. 4th. Very Rev. Fr. Granger was present, and made a few remarks concerning the object, etc., of the Society. Master Widdicombe read an address on the Progress of the Devotion to the Blessed Virgin in the United States. Master J. L. Healy delivered a short but instructive sketch of the life of St. Dominic and the origin of the Rosary. The chairman, Rev. T. E. Walsh, then made a few interesting remarks, and the meeting adjourned.
—The editor of this paper regrets that he was prevented from attending the exercises in the church here last Sunday, on the occasion of the Pilgrimage from Mishawaka, having been called to assist at the dedication of a new church at Bourbon, Ind. The new church is under the charge of the Rev. Father Zurwellen, of Plymouth, and is amply large enough to accommodate the Catholics livingin the vicinity of Bourbon. A special train was run from Plymouth on Sunday morning to enable the several Catholic societies of that city to attend the ceremonies. Quite a large number of people from Bourbon and the country about it also attended. After the church was blessed by Father Zurwellen, High Mass was sung; the Mass over, the celebrant preached to an attentive audience a sermon on the Catholic Church. A fine dinner was served up in the public hall for the visitors, and Father Zurwellen is very thankful for the efforts of many non-Catholics to make it successful. In the afternoon Vespers were sung and a short discourse was given, after which the visitors from Plymouth returned to their city. The dedication ceremonies were beautifully carried out.
—We advise all our readers to forward their address and 10 cents to Orange Judd Co., 245 Broadway, New York, who make a special offer to send for this sum (half price and postage) the number for October 1st of the American Agriculturist. This splendid number, besides over 50 engravings, contains a great amount of useful, practical, reliable, seasonable information, not only for the farm and garden, but for the household, children included. Most will get from it hints and suggestions worth ten or twenty times its cost......Better still, to send $1.60 and receive the paper, post-paid, from now to the end of 1878—that is all of volume 37, with the rest of this year/ree. (Two copies for $1.50 each). Nowhere else can one get so much really valuable, paying information for so little money— not 3 cents a week, a sum easily saved or produced, which the paper will be sure to help one to do. This journal is prepared by practical men and women, who know what they talk and write about from actual experience and large observation,and they can and do greatly aid oth ers in profitable planning and working. Many single hints and suggestions, each abundantly repay a year’s cost. The fearless exposures of quackery and humbugs in every
108
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
number, are invaluable, and have saved its readers and the country millions of dollars. The departments for the household and children are pleasing and instructive. Every number of the paper is beautifully illustrated. In short, the American Agriculturist is full of good things, for every man, woman, and child, in city, village, and country. Take our advice and send §1.60 for 14 months, or at least send a dime for the half-price-specimen now offered, and see it for yourselves.
Roll of Honor.
[In the following list are the names of those students who dur, ing the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty,]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. F. Arnold, W. Arnold, T. Barry, J. Bell, J. Carroll, B. J. Claggett, P. J. Cooney, J. Cooney, J. J. Coleman, E. Chatterton, J. AL Devine, W. D. Dechant, J. G. Ewing, L. J. Evers, L. Eisenman, J. English, J. Fitzgerald, E. Fishburn, W. C. Farrar, F. Fulkerson, E. Gooley, S. Gooley, J. Houck, W. Hoyte, L. Horn, AL Hogan, J. Hoffman, F. Hoffman, J. Q. Johnson, J. P. Kinney, F. Keller, J. Kuebel, J. Kelly, B. Krautzer, J. J. Kotz, F. U. Luther, P. W. Mattimore, L. D. Murphy, W. J. Murphy, J. D. Afontgomery, V. J. McKinnon, H. Maguire, J. P. AlcHugh, AL AfcCue, P. F. McCullough, F. AfcAfullen, J. J. McEniry, W. Prudhomme, J. Perea, J. Pembroke, E. Poor, M. Began, E. W. Bobinson, J. Bice, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, T. Bummers, G. Saxinger, J. J. Shugrue, C. L. Stuckey, AL Williams, G. Williams, E. Walters, E. Ward, F. Walter.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Arentz, J. G. Baker, F. W. Bloom, AL H. Bannon, J. N. Byrne, BL E. Canoil, J. Carrer, F. E. Carroll, G. P. Cassidy, G. H. Cochrane, C. J. Clarke, G. H. Donnelly, B. French, L. Gar-ceau, J. A. Gibbons, H A. Gramling, J. P. Hafner, J. Herrick, G. Ittenbach, J. B. Ittenbach, C. E. Johnson, B. E. Keenan, J. Larkin, A. A Afiller, F. T. AfcGrath, J. D. McNeills, W. J. AIcCarthy, B. P. Mayer, T. Nelson, T. O’Hara, George Orr, J. O’Donnell, B. Pleins, K. W. Beynolds, A Beitz, K L. Scanlan, J. K. Schobey, A Sievers, F. J. Singler, C. Van Mouriek, W. B. Walker, E. S. Walter, P. Frane, J. E. Halloran.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. J. Coolbaugh, G. Bhodius, A Coghlin, W. AfcDevitt, J. A. Seeger, O. Farrelly, A Bushey, P. Nelson, M. Herrick, G. Knight, G. Lambin, A. Hartrath, J. Courtney, J. McGrath, Jos. Inderrieden, H. Kitz, F. Farrelly, J. Devine, C. Bushey, C. Garrick, C. Herzog, J. Crowe, L McGrath, E. Herzog, P. Fitzgerald, C. Welty, C. Long, C. Crowe.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
SPECIAL COURSE, COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, MUSIC, ETC.
J. Ittenbach, G. L. Ittenbach, H Gramling, E. Gramling, A. Ginz, B. Pleins, F. Pleins, A Beitz, E. Walter, L. Horne, J. Boehm, G. Walters, W. B. Walker, Wm. McCarthy, Wm. Ohlman, G. Williams, F. Walter, C. Nodler, W. Widdicombe, E. Walters, K. Beynolds, B. P. Mayer, W. Vander Hayden, E. Pennington, A. Heitkam, B. Johnson, C. Johnson, A. Abrahams, J. Krost, L Chatterton, J. Bogers, AL Burns, J. Pembroke, E. Ward, J. Prudhomme, L. Prudhomme, A Keenan, B. Keenan, K. Scanlan, E. Fishburn, F. Ewing, J. Coleman, AL McCue, J. Burger, J. D. Montgomery, Wm. Hoyte, H. Whitmer, M. Williams, A. Ginz, L. D. Murphy, J. J. Quinn, W. Murphy, Joseph Perea, E. Arnold, J. J. Shugrue, L. Garceau, C. Walsh, T. Barry, J. Bothert, J. P. McHugh, J. Gibbons, A Sievers, J. English, J. Healy, O. AIcKone, L. Evers, J. P. Quinn, J. J. Houck, A- K. Schmidt, T. Fischel, J. Fitzgerald, T. Hale, B. Price, J. Arentz, F. Walter, P. McCullough, G. P. Cassidy, C. Clarke, W. Cannon, ‘ E. Walter, F. Hellman, J. Stewart, L. Sievers, G. Sugg, J. Baker, J. Guthrie, C. Van Mouriek, J. Houck, A J. Burger, A Hatt, V. McKinnon.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
German—B. P. Mayer, J. Ittenbach, G. Ittenbach, J. Le-mariA L Chatterton; French—A. Keenan, B. Keenan; Law— J. J. Quinn.
Boll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COUBSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Afisses J. Cooney, A Harris, A. Henne-ebrry, E. O’Neill, M. Spier, P. Gaynor, B. Beynolds, A. Piet.
1st Senior Class—Misses H. Bussell, M. Ewing, S. Moran, AL Lange, C. Boyce, B. Wilson, I. Fisk.
2d Sr. Class—Misses N. McGrath, C. Silverthorne, AL Way, B. Thompson, N. Keenan, H. Hoag, S. Hamilton, M. Burch, A Woodin.
3d Sr. Class—Aliases E. Tighe, F. Cregier, M. Halligan, H. Alillis, M Brown, H. Buck, AL Wagner, T. Pleins, M. Plettenberg, C. Hackett, A. Brown, A Thomas, L. Hoag, C. Ortmeyer, AL O’Neil, C. Schwass.
1st Prep. Class—Miss J. Winston.
2d Prep. Class—Miss E. Thomas.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
3d Sr. Class—Miss A Kirchner.
2d Prep. Class—Miss J. Kingsbury.	•
Jr. Prep. Class—Alisss L. Fox, M. Hake, A McGinnis, L. Van Namee.
2d Jr, Class—Afiss L. McFarland.
LANGUAGES.	.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st Latin Class—Misses Alice Piatt and J. Cooney.
2d Latin Class—Alisses C. Silverthorne, AL Plattenburg, E. Tighe, O. Franklin, M. Luce.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THB
1st French Class—Misses A Harris, H. Bussel, N. McGrath, C. Silverthorne, B. Wilson, P. Gaynor.
2d Div.—Misses M. O’Connor, B. Beynolds, N. Keenan, J. Bur-gert, A. McGrath, H. Millis.
2d French Class—Misses AL Ewing, S. Moran, L. Kirchner, A Geiser, I. Fisk, A. Ewing.
3d French Class—Misses J. Cooney, M. Brown, AL Wagner, AL O’Neill, M. Winston, M. Buch, T. Whiteside, A Ddpp, E. Shaw, L. Chilton, L. Fox.
MARKED IMPROVEMENT IN FRENCH CONVERSATION.
Afisses L. Kirchner, M. Ewing, M. O’Neill, S. Moran, M. Birch. T. Whiteside, M. Brown, A. Dopp, L. Chilton, E. Shaw, A, Geiser, M. Wagner.
GERMAN.
2d Class—Afisses A Kirchner, M. Usselman, D. Gordon, E. Walsh.
2d Drv.—Misses A Seising, E. O’Neill, C. Ortmeyer, S. Bhein-boldt, A Henneberry, C. Barrett
3d Class—Misses E. Afiller, M. Way, F. Cregier, S. Hamilton, C. Boyce.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses T. Pleins and B. Wilson.
3d Div.—Afisses C. Silverthorne and A. Geiser.
2d Class—Misses N. Keenan, A Harris, L. Kirchner.
2d Drv.—Misses E. Miller, L. O’Neill, AL Spier.
3d Class—Misses M. Whiteside, H. Buch, M. Usselman, A. Henneberry.
2d Drv.—Misses A Gordon, J. Burgert, L. New.
4th Class—Misses E. Lange, A Beising, L. Walsh, A Kirchner, H. Millis, M. Brown, E. McGrath, A iMcGrath.
2d Div.—Misses J. Cooney, C. Hackett, P. Gaynor, A. Farrell.
5th Class—Misses B. Anderson, H. Hoag, F. Cregier.-^
2d Div.—Misses M. White, L. Hoag, M. Way, B. Thompson, E. Shaw, K Barret, C. Beardon, L. French, M. Cleary.
6th Class—Afisses M. Mulligan, E. Hackett, C. Van Namee, M. Halligan, A Ewing, S. Bheinboldt, M. Ewing, 0. Franklin, H. Thomas, C. Boyce, A Thomas.
2d Div.—Misses A Brown, AL Lambin, I. Fisk, AL Hake, A Peak, E. Tighe, M. Plattenburg, AL Casey, B. Parrott.
7th Class—Afisses L. Fox, A. McGinnis, S. Hamilton, AL Birch.
8th Class—Misses L. Ellis, E. Mulligan, J. Kingsbury, L. McFarland.
9th Class—Misses M. McFadden, E. Parsons, E. Wooten.
Guitar—Afiss B. Anderson.
Thorough-Bass—Misses A Geiser, B. Wilson, T. Pleins. E. Kirehner.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
2d Class—Afisses E. Kirchner, AL Usselman, A Beising, A Kirchner.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	109
3d Class—Misses A. Gordon, A. Brown, L. Otto, C. Hackett.
4th Class—Misses M. O’Neill, J. Winston, A. Farrell, 8. Rheinboldt.
5th Class—Misses M. Mulligan, B. Anderson.
Chorus Singing—Misses E. Hackett, B. Parrott, M. Hake, B. Thompson.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st Class—Miss 8. Moran.
2d Class—Misses E. Lange, P. Gaynor.
3d Class—Miss L. Kirchner, B. Reynolds.
. 4th Class—Miss M. Spier.
5th Class—Misses S. Rheinboldt, N. Davis, T. Whiteside, A. Kirchner, J. Butts, E. Mulligan, L. McFarland, A. Farrell, E. Thomas.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses T. Whiteside, J.Burget, N. Davis, S. Moran, L. Otto, 8. Rheinboldt, H. Hoag, T. Pleins, M. Way, A. Thomas, B. Thompson. A. Brown, K. Barrett, J. Winston, A, Dopp, C. Ortmeyer, M. Brown, H. Buck, B. Paarott.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Morgan, D. Gordon, A. Kirchner, L. Ellis, V. Me Ginnis.
Madame Hortense Mdlle. Josephine. Mdlle. Emille.... Mdlle. Lucille....
.....Miss L. Chilton ... Miss Ella Wotten Miss Nellie Hackett
.Miss Florence Craiger .....Miss N. McGrath
Anahe?Ue Maids of Honor j	----
Anabel )	(.....Miss B. Thompson
Maria Malsherbes )	_ ,.T ..	( Julia Butts
Isabel	J Chlldren of Nobleman { £ VanXe
Camille (a Gerondine Leader, and sister of Angelique)
Jeanette
Annette •
Charlotte
Femme La Gosse “ Santerre “ Clotze
Gerondines
Herbert
Sampson).
Simon Mountain Party
“ Adele
“ Eulalie
“ Victoire
Prologue.......
....Miss A. Harris ... .Miss B. Wilson ....Miss N. Davis ....Miss Birch Miss M. O’Connor
“ M. Spier
“	S. Moran
“ C. Ortmeyer “	M. Ewing
“	E. Lange
“ I. Fisk “ M. Plattenhurg Miss A. Kirchner
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
3d Class—Miss 8. Moran.
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses P. Gaynor, E. Lange.
3d Class—Misses B. Reynolds, M. O’Connor.
Tablet of Honor
For Neatness, Order, Amiability, and Correct Deportment.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses J. Cooney, A. Harris, A. Henneberry, E. O’Neill, M. Spier, A. Reising, P. Gaynor, A. Piet, M. O’Connor, M. Ewing, H. Russel, 8. Moran, I. Fisk, E. Lange, C. Boyce, B. Wilson, A. Dopp, N. McGrath, C. Silverthorne, M. Way, M. Casey, M. Burch, A. Woodin, E. Kirchner, L. Burger, L. Otto, L. Keena, M. Luce, L. Tighe, K. Reordan, E. Shaw, H. Millis, M. Halligan, M. Brown, T. Pleins, M. Wagner, M. Plattenberg, C. Hackett, C. Lloyd, M. Hayes, C. Ortmeyer, M. O’Neill, B. Parrott, M. and J. Winston, A. Brown, S. Rheinboldt, M. Usselman, M. Mullen, M. Cleary, A. Farrell, M. Whiteside, 100 par excellence. Misses K. Barrett, B. Thompson, N. Keenan, F. Cregier, L. Walsh, L. Burgert, L. Schwass, O. Franklin, E. Miller, E. Thomas, L. New.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Gordon, A. McGrath, EJHackett, L. Fox, M. McFadden, F. Sunderland, E. Mulligan, F. Fitz, C.VanNamee, M. Lyons, E. Wootten, L. McFarland, 100 par excellence. Misses A. Ewing, A. Morgan, A Kirchner, L. Chilton, A. Geiser, M. Hake, ' A McGinnis, L. French, M. Cox, E. Lloyd, J. Butts, L. Walsh, B. and T. Haney, M. Ivers.
—The following is the programme of the Exhibition to to be given to-day at St. Mary’s Academy:
Overture to “Figaro”—Trio....................(Mozart)
Misses L. Kirchner, Geiser and Silverthorne.
Chorus—“Hail, Smiling Morn”...................(Spofforth)
Vocal Class.
Felicitation Fran^aise.................Miss P. Gaynor
Seniors’ Greeting......................Miss B. Reynolds
“The Fisher’s Song”—as played by Madame Essipoff
.................................(Leichetezky)
Miss B. Wilson.
German Address.........................Miss A. Kirchner
Welcome to St. Edward’s Feast.......Juniors and Minims
Song—“ Russian Nightingale ”..................(Alaneff)
Miss Foote. Accompanied by Miss Silverthorne.
THE TIMES OF MARIE ANTOINETTE.
An Original Drama in Four Acts.
Dramatis Persona:
Marie Antoinette.......................Miss H. Russell
The Dauphin (Louis Charles)...............Ella	Mulligan
Princess Royale (Marie Therese)...........Miss	H. Buck
Princess'Clotilde ) • t	f T , vvt f Miss M. Way
Princess Elizabeth f slsters ot ^o™8 XVi j Miss Kirchner Princess Louise de Bourbon (cousin of Louis XVI)
...................................Miss	L. Walsh
Princess de Lamballe...................Miss A. Gordon
Madame de Tourzel......................Miss A. Morgan
Act 1st—Scene 1st.
HALL OF THE GERONDINES. Vocal Trio...........•..............(Bandegger)
Misses Foote, Usselman and Reising.
.	Act 1st—Scene 2d.
PALACE OF THE TUILERIES. Vocal Duett.......’.................(Donizetti)
Misses Foote and L. Kirchner. Act 2—Scene 1st. STORMING OF THE TUILERIES.
Vocal Trio—“Protect us through the coming night” ......................................(Guschman)
Act 2d—Scene 2d. SUBURBS OF PARIS. Act 2d—Scene 3d. TOWER. Intermezzo Scheznino..................(Von Bulow)
Miss A. Geiser. Act 3d—Scene 1st. COBBLERS’ APARTMENT.
Vocal Duett........................(Bubinstein)
Misses L. and A. Kirchner. Act 3d—Scene 2d. TOWER. Act 4th—Scene 1st. PRISON—LA FORCE. Act 4th—Scenes 2d and . 3d. TOWER.
The Chimes...............................(Pape)
Miss B. Wilson.
Act 4th—Scene 4th.
DEATH OF LITTLE LOUIS. TABLEAU. Solo and Chorus.......................(Falkenstein)
Vocal Class. “Salut a Pesth”......................(Kowalski)
Misses Miller and Buck.
JAMES BONNET THE PHOTOGBAPHER, Corner Michigan and. Washington Sts.,
SOUTH BEJSTZD,
110
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, May. 13,1877, trains -will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 22 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 50 p m;
Cleveland 10 30 p m; Buffalo, 5 20 a m.
7 16 pm, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 10 56 p m; Cleveland 144 a m; Buffalo 6 52 a m.
9 12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2 40a m; Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 1 05 p m.
4 38 and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING -WEST.
2 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am.
5 05 am, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 20 a m.
4 38 p m. Special Chicago Express.- Arrives at Laporte 5 35; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 02 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9am; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
8 45 and 9 25 am, Way Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div , Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. B. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABEE.
JUNE 24, 1877.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No.l, Fast Ex.	No. 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 p.m. 12.53 “ 3.10 A.M. 4.46 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9.00 A.M. 10.15 “ 12.50 P.M. 2.30 “ 4.40 “ 5.15 “	1.50.P.M. 2.58 “ 5.35 “ 7.12 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	6.00 A.M. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave Forest,	 Lima,	 Ft.Wayne,	 Plymouth,	 Chicago,	Arrive	7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.20 p.m. 3.45 “ 7.00 “	5.40 p.m. 7.35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 246 a.m. 6.30 “	9.55 p.m. 11.15 “ 12.25 a.m. 2.40 “ 4.55 “ 7.58 “		
GOING EAST.				
	No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,	Leave Plymouth,	 Ft. Wayne,	 Lima,	 Forest,	'.. Crestline,	Arrive	9.10 p.m. 2.46 a.m. 6 55 “ 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 1145 “	8.00 A.M. 11.25 “ 2.10 p.m. 4.05 “ 5.20 “ 6.55 “	5.15 P.M. 9.00 “ 11.35 “ 1.30 A.M. 2.48 “ 4.25 “		
Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville,	 Alliance,	 Rochester,	..... Pittsburgh,	Arrive	12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.30 “ 4.05 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.44 “ 9.38 “ 1L15 “ 1.21 A.M. 2.30 “	1.40 A.M. 20 5 “ 3.40 “ 5.03 “ 69	“ 70 p.m.	6 05 a.m. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 p.m. 3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
FjIUTOIBS, G. P. & T. A.
PATRICK SHIOKEY,
PBOPBIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE I
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maiy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P. S HICKEY.
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate con stitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST., opposite Shennan House, Chicago, Illinois.
Sets ’Em Up.
HENRY BLUM on hand with a full stock of Imported and Domestic CI Gt AR S and TOBACCOS at the
“ STUDENTS’ OFFICE, ”
54 Washington Street, SOUTH BEND, IND
TOWLE & ROPER, WHOLESALE DEALERS IN CIGARS § TOBACCO, 41 & 43 Wabash Avenue, CHICAGO, -	•	• TILTiTITOTS.
SEND FOK PRICE LIST.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
. A.3srr>
T ZE W ZE L ZEL Y".
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
M. Livingston & Co., -AZHZE TZE3ZZE
Leading1 Merchant Tailors in South Send.
91 MICHIGAN ST., SOUTH BEND, IND.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Ill
Attornevs at Law.
Michigan Central Railway
BROWN & HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER at MITCHELL [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
mHOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of ’621 Attorney at
A Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FAJTWIWG & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of 741, Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and
Randolph sts., Chicago, Ill.
JOHN F. NToUTIGII [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St-, Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE & DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and
Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61),
Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
MCBRIDE at MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68). Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty. Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
Time Table- June 34, 18 7" 7.
-	♦Mail	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago		5 00 a.m	6 00 a.m	3 45 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 pm
“ Mich. City..	9 23 “	11 10 “	6 25 “	7 35 “	11 15. “
“ Niles . ...	10 46 “	12 15 “	8 20 “	9 00 “	12 35 am
“ Kalamazoo..	12 25 p.m	1 38 p.m	10 10 “	10 26 “	2 17 “
“ Jackson		3 35 “	4 05 “	5 20 a.m	12 50 a.m	4 55 “
Ar. Detroit		6 25 “	6 20 “	8 40 “	3 35 “	8 00 am
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 35 a m	5 00 a.m	6 05 p.m	9 50 p.m
“ Jackson....	10 20 “	12 15 p.m	8 00 “	9 30 “	12 45 a.m
“ Kalamazoo..	1 16 p.m	2 40 “	5 00 a.m	12 16 a.m	2 53 “
“ Niles		3 11 “	4 07 “	7 00 “	2 35 “	4 24 “
“ Mich. City..	4 40 “	5 20 “	8 10 “	4 05 “	5 47 “
Ar. Chicago		6 55 “	7 40 “	10 30 “	6 30 “	8 00 “
Wiles and Soxitli Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 30 a.m. 630 pm. “ N. Dame— 837 ■’	635 “
Ar. Niles— 910“	715“
•GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 7 40 “	448 “
Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. IDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted. Henby C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl.	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago, Hl.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
WILLI AMJ. CLARKE(of'74) Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
TAMES A_. O’REILLY-of ’69.—Attorney at Law, eJ 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JO IT PT D. McCORMICK—of’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR (of 75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTllLJFt J. STACE [of’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
"Weekly Newspapers.
THE CATHOLIC COETTMBIjAW.pub’ished weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clause, of 70.
THE A. VE MI ARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.50.
THE YOUNG FOLKS’ FRIEND, published monthly at Loogootee, Ind. 50 cts. per year. Subscriptions solicited from the friends and students of Notre Dame.
Arthur C. 0’Bbian, of 76.
THE SOUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of 741 $1.50 per annum.
The Naturalists’ Agency has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any American for “Collections of Minerals.’’
My Mineralogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about $900, before a copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the species and the more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage, or fracture, hardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
Owing to an increase in stock, it has become necessary to obtain a larger and more convenient location. This has been found at No. 1223 Belmont Avenue, about 2 squares from the Trans-Continental hotel.
Over 38 tons, and nearly $35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13tn, my cash sales were over $1,500 and cash receipts over $1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections ate labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the $5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
Hotels.
Number of Specimens
25 inbox	50 inbox	100 inbox
$ 50	$1	$1 50 |
1 50	3	6
100
Crystals and fragments.... Students’ size, larger.... Amateur’s size, 2J4 in. x 1]4 High School or Acad, size, 244x344 in.shelf specimens College size, 344^6 in., shelf specimens........
$ 1 5
10 25 500
200 300 .
$ 2 10 25 50 100
$ 3
25
50
100 300
CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Ruodius, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
THE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Michigan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave, and Jackson St., Chicago, HI. All .Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science , Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences and of the American Museum of Natural History, Central Park, New York.
112
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
-A. CATHOLIC JOTTB1TAL
Quoted to flte ^onor of the ^tad^irgin.
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
jansen. McClurg & co., Importers and Dealers in Fine Books and Stationery, 117 AND 119 STATE STBEET, OHICAG-O, ILLINOIS.
APPROVED BY HIS HOLINESS PIUS H, ABD MABY EMINENT PRELATES
Organ for Sale.
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria, may be mentioned
Aubrey de Vere,	Grace Ramsay,
Henri Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author of “Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
„	terms:
One Year........................................$ 2 50
Five Years......................................10 00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of §2 each).20 00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application. Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the	*
KEV. EDITOK OF THE “AVE MAKIA,”
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company, 39 & 41 Chamber St. New York.
(One Mile West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED B¥ THE SISTERS OF HOLT CROSS.
This Institution, situated on the beautiful and picturesque bank, of the St. Joseph River, is everything that could he desired as a locality for a female academy. All The branches of a solid- and complete education are taught here. Music, both vocal and instrumental, and the modern languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction.
Particular attention is paid to the religious instruction of Catholic pupils. Pupils of all denominations are received, and for the sake of order required to attend the public religious exercises with • the members of the Institution.
The buildings are spacious and commodious, suited to the educational requirements of the day, and furnished with all modem improvements. Every portion of the building is heated by steam, and hot and cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartments.
The grounds are very extensive, beautifully adorned, and situated in that charming seclusion which is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power.
The proximity of the two institutions to each other is a great convenience taparents having children at both, when they visit their sons and daughters.
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the Twentieth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy or the year 1874-75, oraddress
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
A PIPE ORGAN, nearly new, made by the same firm as the large Organ now in the Church of Our Lady of the. Sacred Heart at Notre Dame, is now offered for sale. The case is of a neat design, with front speaking-pipes, ornamented in gold and colors. Dimensions, 6 feet wide, 3 feet deep, 9 feet high. Manual, compass C. C. to a3, 58 notes. Pedale, C. C. to d, 27 notes, 10 Stops, 232 Pipes, with a Swell Pedal and Blow Pedal. All inclosed in an effective swell, except the Pedale.	.
Manufacturers’ price, $700; will be sold for $500.
For further particulars address
Very Bev. A. GBANGEB, C. S. 0.,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, comer Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express.. 10 00 a.m. 3 45 p.m. Peru accommodation................. 5 00 p.m. 9 35 a.m.
Night Express......................10 00 p.m.	6 50 a.m.
A M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City. nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, D ., and Louisiana, Mo......3	40	pm	12	30 pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line.............................7	30	am	9	00 pm
Peoria Day Express......................3	40	pm	9	00 am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express....8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation....................;.... .9 20 am 5 00 pm.
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two-story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage-shed, coal-house, young trees, grapes, shrubbery, etc., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Scholastic Almanac
Contains, besides the ordinary calendars, selections in prose and verse, both serious and humorous, from the pages of the Notre Dame Scholastic. It is printed on tinted paper and in the best style of typographical art.
Every student should procure a copy.
Every one acquainted at Notre Dame should take a copy.