^otre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vlctnriis; vive quasi eras morlturus.
Volume X.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 26, 1877.
Number 38.
Flowers of Spring.
How fresh and fair the early flowers, Adorning field and courtly bowers, In morning light So gayly bright
Bedecked with dewy diamonds of the night!
The Golden Stars, enshrined on trellis, Whom poets christen Amaryllis ;— ' Narcissus too, But loth to view, And pine away to lovelier forms anew.
And Hyacinth of pleasing power, . Apollo’s dearest friend and flower : The purple cells Of tiny bells
Contain the heart that still with sadness swells.
But more at ease, in beauty wreathing, The violets their fragrance breathing, Where each reclines In velvet lines
Displaying full the butterfly designs.
And sweeter still the Alma—seeming Ever drooping, ever dreaming;
Each bud that grows Blooms forth a rose And everywhere a scent of perfume throws.
Whilst all around the blushing tulips, Upraise their soft and trembling dew-lips That sunbeams kiss In amorous bliss
And sport about in playful happiness.
These gentle sprites of joy and gladness, Dispelling care and soothing sadness,— Exert a power In every hour
More welcome than the cooling summer shower.
No -need to name the numbers teeming With petals rich, and colors beaming, The beauty shows In each that grows
From marshy-caltha to our garden-rose.
Freemasonry.
BY M. B. DRAPIEB.
There are various and conflicting opinions regarding the origin of Masonry—one writer, William Preston, being a little over-anxious for the dignity of Freemasonry, goes so far as to assert that it is coeval with the creation of man.
As a rule, however, members ofthis secret association claim that it has derived its system from the Eleusinian Mysteries. Eleusis, the seat of these celebrated mysteries, was a town in Attica, situated on the bay of Salamis, and was, according to ancient mythology, founded by Eleusis, son of Hermes. During the reign of Ericthonius, fifteen hundred years before the Christian era,* these mysteries were instituted. The subject of their dramatic representations was the Myth of Ceres, and the Rape of Proserpine, her daughter, by Pluto; the celebrations symbolized the institution of marriage, and propagated the belief in the immortality of the soul. The Dionysian Mysteries, in honor of Bacchus, were also instituted about the same time. We have, from the testimony of the Greek poets and many eminent historians, every reason to believe that the Eleui-sinian Mysteries exercised a most salutary influence on the morals of the people. A certain writer summed up their doctrine in these words: “ One supreme God—the eternity of matter—the immortality of the soul—the deification of the elements and of the heavenly bodies—free will—a judgment after death—the metempsychosis, and eternal felicity after certain expiatory punishments in the next world; such,” he says, “it appears to us, were the dogmas taught in these mysteries.” Besides, the Pythagoreans, the most moral and the purest among the. Greeks, were intimately connected with these mysteries; and this shows, conclusively, that, instead of being, as they are represented by many persons, the scenes of riot and debauchery, they were an effective means in making those who were initiated into their mysteries, as Diodorus Sicnlus says, “ more pious, more just, and in every respect better men.”
But that Freemasonry has no doctrinal affinity to this in-stitutioni and has, likewise, no historical connection with: it, will appear from the exposition of its doctrines. It is not surprising, then, since we see them tracing their origin to these ancient mysteries, that they have the audacity to institute a comparison between their association and that of the Essenians. Whatever may be the common opinion among Masons regarding the relationship between themselves and theEssenians, certain it is that they are all unanimous in the belief that Masonry existed at the building of Solomon’s Temple (begun 1016, and finished in 1008, B. C.) Tn fact, many of them expressly state that it was here Masonry originated; and the one to whom they attribute its organization was a widow’s son who headed the Di-onysiac workmen sent by Hiram, at the solicitaton of Solomon, to assist in the building of the Temple. Among the many symbols of Masonry, Solomon’s Temple figures most prominently. But it is evident that if Freemasonry did exist at that time it would certainly have flourished
i n.t fl
* Robertson’s Greece, p. 58-59.
594
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
in after ages in Judea, which was not the case; for neither sacred nor profane historians make mention of any such institution. About the year 1849 a friend of mine was in Jerusalem, and being a man who was familiar with the history of the place, he interrogated the British Consul, Mr. Finn, concerning the whereabouts of the cave where the stones used in the building of the Temple had been prepared; he told the consul that the cave must be under the city, for so Josephus says; but the consul, who was also an antiquarian of some note, expressed much surprise at this; for he said be had never before heard anything concerning this cave. Three years subsequently however, (1852), an incident occurred which brought this place to light. The consul and a gentleman by name of McGowan were one day taking a walk through the city, when suddenly a little dog of the consul’s was seen in full pursuit of a rabbit, and, to their great surprise, the dog and rabbit suddenly and mysteriously disappeared. After many fruitless endeavors to find the dog, the consul finally remembered what he had been told about the cave being under the city, and in company with Mr. McGowan and several other antiquarians he commenced to explore the place. Their perseverance was finally rewarded, for to the eastward of the Damascus Gate they discovered a small hole which on examination was found to increase in size according as they descended. This proved to be the very place where the stones used in the building of the Temple had been cut and dressed. Enormous blocks of marble, worked into the most beautiful forms and designs, evincing the wondrous skill of those who were engaged in the erection of that magnificent edifice, were found here—in fact the very tools used by the workmen were still to be seen. If, then, Masonry did originate at this period (the erection of the Temple) how comes it that to-day it pretends to have the very words, signs and grips used two thousand years ago by the masons of the Temple and not have the faintest idea of the existence of this cave ? It does not at all seem reasonable to suppose that they could have handed down bjr tradition what was in itself so foolish, so insignificant, and not know anything concerning the existence of this important place—as well might they say there was such a building as the Temple, and not know that there ever existed such a man as Solomon: the latter is as reasonable as the former.
No matter, then, what they may say about the antiquity of their institution we have every proof that the origin of Masonry dates from the Masonic Lodges of the Middle Ages. It was founded by Erwin Steinbach, in the city of Strasburg; and this was the centre and model of all the other lodges which soon sprung up throughout Europe. On the 25th of April, 1459, the heads of all these different lodges assembled at Ratisbonne, there drew up the Act of Incorporation, and in this way was instituted in perpetuity the lodge founded by Erwin Steinbach. Steinbach was then looked upon as Grand Master of all the lodges in Germany. In the year 1498 the Emperor Maximilian gave to it his sanction, and this sanction was afterwards ratified by Charles the Fifth and Ferdinand the First. In order that they might be distinguished from those mechanics who could do nothing more than handle the hammer and trowel, the Freemasons invented signs by which they could recognize those of the craft, and as symbols adopted the square, level, compass and hammer.
Such was the origin of Freemasonry. In the course of time, admission was not restricted wholly to those ac
quainted with the architectural art, and, later on, other objects than those connected with the craft began to engage their attention. Shortly after the Revolution of 1668 Freemasonry was introduced into France, but Louis the Fourteenth soon put a stop to its extension. In the year 1725 it was again revived, and in 1744 was again prohibited, which only served to strengthen it the more. The Society of Masons, says an Italian historian, “ retained in Great Britain a serious character; but in other countries is was soon converted into convivial meetings, and became a sort of gay heresy, apparently innoxious, and which even by acts of beneficence sought to render itself useful. Its mysteriousness served to attract and excite the imaginative: the visionary thought to perceive in the order a school of chimerical perfection and transcendental mysticism: the' charlatan, an abundant source of illusions: some, under the mantle of its name, practised knavery; but a greater number looked on this institution as a means of relief of indigence.” All lodges in France were proscribed in the year 1729, those in Holland in-1735, and afterwards in Flanders, Sweden, Poland, Portug il, Hungary and Switzerland. Three years subsequent to this, Freemasonry in Italy was condemned by Pope Clement the Twelfth. Such was the origin and early progress of this now numerous order.


S'
[to be continued.]
Advantages of Education.
When an all-wise Providence made man He thought proper to endow the being He had created with a desire of knowledge, which is, we may say, innate. This is apparent even in the infant; for as soon 'as it can lisp a few words, and thus express its ideas, the little child asks: “What is the sun?—why does it shine?—and who made it?” “Why does it rain?—whence does the rain come?— and to what place does it run?” “What is the wind?”— and why does it howl and whistle ? ” “ Who made the birds?—where do they dwell?—why do they not fall to the ground ? ”—and other queries of a like kind which will immediately suggest themselves to those acquainted with the ways of young children. If they are not silenced by being told that “little children should be seen, and not heard,” there is no end to the questions they will ask of those around, no bounds to their slow but sure increase of knowledge.
The nourishing of this intellectual craving by instruction is called education. Education includes the formation of the mind, the regulation of the heart, the establishing of the moral and religious principles, also good-breeding or outward conduct. “Good instruction makes one wise; good breeding, more polished and agreeable; a good education really good.”
In order that an education may be good it must be harmonious ; that is to say, the intellectual, the physical and moral faculties must be developed with equal care. This is quite clear to all persons, for how can one get strength of body necessary to study without physical exercise ? or what must not be the degraded character possessed by one who entirely disregards and avoids moral and religious culture ? How chilling is not that knowledge from which is absent every ray from the warm sun of morality? How repugnant to the Christian scholar is not that learning which is devoid of the resplendent beauties of Religion, which when entwined with Science is the grandest of all
V
I i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
595
pursuits; but when separated, they often seem not to be harmonious, but on the contrary to be in contradiction with one another.
The pleasure derived from the study of the works of God as displayed in nature is inestimable. It was the beauties of nature which inspired the poet Homer to speak in nature’s language, and it may also be said, and said with great truth, that it has inspired all pre-eminent poets to speak in the same tongue.
Education is of vast importance to us, in order that we may comprehend nature. The little boy, when rambling over bill and dale, thinks not that in crushing the tiny flowers which lie in his path he destroys objects which contain worlds of knowledge, and which when examined and explained to him by the skilful scientist would fill him with wonder and amazement. What a world of learning which is nothing more nor less than mere stuff to the uneducated person is open to the erudite man? With what pleasure does not the geologist read from the mass of rocks, as plainly as in a printed volume, the history of the earth! With what delight does not the astronomer examine and contemplate the myriads of stars in the intense blue of the arched vault of heaven ! Never was a sentence more true than the following which was uttered by Daniel Webster: “If we work upon marble, it will perish; if we work upon brass, time will efface it; if we rear temples, they will crumble into dust; but if we work upon the immortal mind, if we imbue it with principles, with the just fear of God and love of our fellow-men, we engrave on this table something which will brighten for all eternity.”
It is likewise absolutely necessary that the reader of history should have a good education, for without it how is it possible for him to weigh the facts and appreciate the beauties of style exhibited by ancient and modern historians of note ?
It is not without deep meaning, therefore, that the great literary characters of the world have lavished upon science the most beautiful eulogiums, for it is the fountain from which those who pant and thirst after its invigorating waters may drink continually, but who after having drunk their fill still desire more and more.
What must be the longings of the ignorant after knowledge? Behold the poor man who has received no education : he has the capacity of thinking, but it is, we may say, a barren faculty, for it is never able to explain the most ordinary objects in nature. Such a person may toil with persevering and indefatigable industry, but he is not contented with his labor. When the day’s work is done he can hardly rejoice, for there are no books for him to peruse; no literary pursuits, no scientific lessons, no philosophical principles find way to his uncultivated mind and arouse his dormant powers of thought; the whole field of learning is to him a mystery. He returns home in search of relaxation, but how few are the charms of such a home! He has little taste for the quiet and the social exchanging of feelings and sympathies which should greet him in his home. If the dark cloud which now obscures his vision were removed—if a few rays from the sun of learning were let in upon his chilled faculties—if he imbibed some drops of blessed water from the fount of learning—then indeed would he look upon his occupation in a different light. He should then Jearn to profit by the experience of generations, and tread undiscovered paths. Instances of selfmade men are abundant in the annals of the world. I will cite only two great men who have dwelt in a foreign coun
try. I refer to John Bunyan and William Shakespeare, both of whom attended only a common school and gained the remainder of their learning bv studious self-application. These two men are pre-eminent in their department of letters: one, the prince of dreamers, the other, the prince of poets; and both have added treasures of undying lustre to the literature of the world. Our own history has numerous examples of self-educated men, such as Benjamin Franklin, Horace Greely, Andrew Johnson, Henry Clay, and a host of others who shall now for want of space and time be nameless. It will suffice to dwell an instant on the celebrated Clay, who, although he attended a common school for a few months only, was a lawyer, an orator, a politician, a diplomatist, a statesman, a farmer; sometimes defending and vindicating the character of a fellow-man before the tribunal: sometimes with his voice—which was capable of expressing the deepest emotion as well as the most severe sarcasm—thrilling the heart-strings of his admiring countrymen; now canvassing the State of Kentucky, and everywhere gaining the goodwill and support of its citizens; nownegotiating the treaty of Ghent; then regulating the disturbed financial condition of the country, or presiding over the House of "Representatives, or with his peers, Webster and Calhoun, debating some question of vast import to the nation and soon after returning among his devoted constituents and seeking repose and relaxation in the humble pursuit of agricultural affairs.
It was mv intention to say something of other great men, and to dwell for a few moments on the diffusion of knowledge as tending to ameliorate the sufferings of the poor; but fearing that this poorly-written essay will in length bear much more semblance to a dry old lecture than a composition for class, I hasten to bring it to an ending. However, I must say a few words relative to the necessity of devoting all our energies while young to the acquisition of knowledge. If education were necessary for no other purpose than to make good citizens of us, it should be enough to induce us to devote our energies to the gaining of knowledge; for it is a noted fact that the nation whose inhabitants are best educated, that nation is most honored and respected, and shall hold the highest place in arbitrating and directing the affairs of other nations. Remember, then, Edmund Burke’s wise remark: “ Education is the chief defence of nations”; procrastinate no longer, but commence in the season of youth and vigor; and if you do, you may feel well assured that when old age with its disagreeable appendages shall have come upon you—when your hair shall be whitened, your flesh wrinkled, your limbs become weak and your step begins to falter and your hand to tremble, you shall then have a consolation and solace of which no thief can rob you. Reflect, then, on the maxim: “ The night cometh, when no man can work,” and profit by this meditation, for it is certain that those who persevere in their application shall at length obtain “ a crown of glory which passeth not away.”
* “Do you covet learning’s prize,
Climb her heights and take it.
In ourselves our fortune lies ;
Life is what we make it.”
___________ _	W. H. A.
—“ Wordsworth,” said Charles Lamb, “ one dav told me he corfeidered Shakespeare greatly over-rated. ‘There is an immensity of trick in all Shakespeare wrote,’ he said, ‘ and people are taken by it. Now. if I had a mind, I could write exactly like Shakespeare.’ “ So you see,” proceeded Charles Lamb, quietly, “it was only the mind that was wanting,”
r
596	THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Musings.
BY APOLLO JETTICK.	,
The Sweet by-and-by.—Several very fine jokes have already been elaborated on this popular hymn of Sankey’s, such as the sweet buy and buy of the ladies going shopping, and this wheat by-and-by of the expectant farmer; but we have still to expect “ The suite by-and-by,” as a substitute for “To be Continued,” at the end of a serial tale; while the “ sweat by-and-by” has yet to show us how a slight vocalic variation may change a pleasant prospect into one of an entirely different character.
Bendemeer’s Stream.—This is the ancient name of the St. Joseph River, before it was baptized by Father Marquette, in the old heathen times when the Princes of Portage Prairie held their court at Mount Pleasant. In the archives of the Principality, or rather in such fragments of them as were saved at the Burning of Bertrand, we find that the city of St. Joseph, Mich., was at that time also known as North Bendemeer, but changed its name with the river, while South Bendemeer unwilling to lose its heathen appellation entirely, simply abbreviated it and became South Bend. We think it was Mewer who wrote that beautiful poem on the river, in which he alludes in such flowery terms to his friend, Franz Bauer, then the courteous landlord of the Union Hotel:	-
There’s a Bauer of roses by Bendemeer’s stream,
And the standpipe is squirting there all the day long, etc. Those idiotic persons who imagine that the name “South Bend” is derived from a local flexuosity in the course of the river, should consult the map, and there they will find that the river, tortuous as it undoubtedly is, and unsurpassed in its way for circumbendubiquity throughout the United States, does not present any prominent angle as it passes the original plat of South Bend. On the contrary, although it does bend a little here—to the east, though, not to the south,—a portion of its course more nearly straight could hardly have been selected.	-
Might is not always Right.—This applies to the translation of the Latin subjunctive, when the auxiliaries of the English potential are to be employed. As there are cases in which “could” “would” or “should” is the only correct rendition, we must necessarily infer that “ might ” is not always right.
Dead Beatitude.—This term, denoting the state or condition of a Dead Beat, is not, as the ignorant and weak-minded may fondly fancy, to be ranked among the Eight Beatitudes. Consult your catechism.
Moss Agate.—This is a mere vulgar contraction for Moss Aggregate, a substance formed at the North Pole by the subjection of rein-deer moss to severe hydraulic pressure by means of icebergs. Hence the compact form in which we find it.	•
Tarred and Feathered.—Pupils arriving late’at schcjol in ancient times were marked “ tardy,” and if the excuse offered was of a flimsy nature it was set. down as “feathery.” From the constant recurrence of the words “ tardy and feathery” in school records some barbarous persons have imagined the existence of a punishment consisting in the application of a coat of tar and feathers to the person of the offender. It is needless to remark here that in a civilized country, such as in our own, so savage an idea is entirely without foundation in fact. •
Cutting up.—In order to cut a tree up it is advisable
first to cut it down, but whether or not you can burn a house up without burning it down is- problematical still.
Comes Infelicis Ulyssel—Zach. Chandler.
Our Climate: such as it is.—The Greeks had only three seasons: Eunomia (Good order) which was seedtime; Dike (Justice), or harvest; and Irene (Peace), or winter, regarded as the cessation of the farmer’s labors. We have also three, of equal length, which should be named “Expectation,” “Fruition,” and “Resignation.” “Expectation” begins with the palpable lengthening of the days in the middle of January and lasts till the trees are covered with foliage, which is not till the middle of May. This season is one of perpetual disappointment. Every bright day—every twitter of a song-bird, arouses hopes of spring, hopes doomed to be continually blasted, until the season of “Fruition” fairly sets in, during which our climate is somewhat of the tropical order—to speak somewhat tropically. “ Fruition ” lasts till the “ kindling of the leaf" in the middle of September. Then comes the season of “ Resignation ” during which we always enjoy ourselves most, because we expect nothing better than we get, and are thankful for the glorious “Indian summer” weather— every nice day during this period, till after Christmas at least, is an “Indian summer day.” The present month is appropriately called May, because we may have almost any kind of weather that you can mention during its course,— and then again we may not.
De End justifies Demesnes.—That is how the Louisiana bulldozing darkies justify the seizure of their former masters’ estates.
City of Mobile.—The primum motile of the solid South. Alabama signifies “ here we rest,” and yet its metropolis is always mobile. •	•
The Communion, of St. Jerome.
The Communion of St. Jerome is the masterpiece of Doninichino Zampieri, otherwise known as Dominichino. This work, in spite of a little dryness and heaviness in the execution, may be compared with the Transfiguration of our Lord, by Raphael. Pouissin considered the Transfiguration, the Communion of St. Jerome, and the Descent from the Cross, by Daniel de Volterre, as the three finest paintings in Rome. Dominichino is, if not the most illustrious, at least one of the most celebrated masters produced by the city of Bologna. He began his studies under Denis Calvari; and confpleted them in Rome in the studio of Anibel Carrachi.
Dominichino did not reduce art to a system. He believed with Raphael that its grand aim is to reproduce nature, amplified and ennobled by thought, and he never sought after success by strained and unnatural effects. Though sober in invention, he is judicious in thought, correct in design, brilliant and vigorous in coloring, and as regards expression, he is so true to nature that the author of the lives of illustrious painters does not hesitate to assert that Dominichino is in nowise inferior to Raphael himself.
In the Communion of St Jerome, Dominichino follows the rule laid down by his master, Annibal Caracchi, who never allowed more than twelve figures in a tableau. The composition is extremely simple. The scene is supposed to take place under the roof of a temple of most noble and graceful architecture. Ou the right stands the Bishop, presenting a resplendent Host, while the deacon carries the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	597
chalice. An assistant kneels at the foot of the deacon, while on the left may be seen the Saint, supported or rather carried in the arms of his friends. An aged female kisses his trembling hand, whilst another contemplates him with a look of veneration. Behind this group are a few of the faithful come to assist at the Communion. Nothing distracts the attention from the grand central piece> which is the Saint’s head; age and afflictions have bowed it down. He can support himself no longer. He retains scarcely a breath of life, but his face glows with an ecstatic joy mingled with a sort of respectful fear at the approach of the Saviour. On his brow are depicted the triumph and the humility of the Christian, and nevertheless three seraphs appear to receive the prayers of the Saint, and no doubt his soul with his prayers, for to consider the weakness of the body, which faith endows with new life, it cannot be doubtful that the intention of the artist is to depict the last Communion of St. Jerome. Never did the artist reach a higher flight of inspiration; and moreover there was a sort of analogy between himself and the learned doctor. Both had spent their lives in the service of a grand thought. The one was devoted to art, the other to the Church, and both had suffered for their Faith. Posterity has done justice to both, in canonizing the learned Doctor, and ia ranging the painter immediately after Michael Angelo, DaVinci, Raphael, Corregio and Titian.
Wind.
It may be of interest to some of our younger readers to know something of that phenomenon of everyday occurrence—the wind. We will not speak of the disagreeableness of a cold north wind in winter, nor of the agreeable breezes in summer-time—this we leave to the poets; what concerns us now is to ascertain the cause of the wind, and some other little items connected with the subject.
Hot or warm air is lighter than cold air. This is the principle or the law on which the cause of winds is based. Anyone having studied a few lessons in natural philosophy can tell you that the cause of the lightness of hot air is the heat itself, for he will say heat expands the atoms of air and makes it less dense, consequently allowing less atoms in a given space, the result of which is that the air becomes lighter. Now just the reverse takes place with cold air. Cold air is heavy, because cold contracts and brings the atoms of air closer together, allowing as a consequence more atoms in a given space, and the result is that the air is heavy. Now upon just such differences of temperature in the air the formation of winds depend.
An easy experiment will explain this more fully, and will satisfy those who always desire proofs for what is put down as a natural law. Suppose you sit in a cold winter evening near a warm stove: now throw some very fine bits of paper near the stove, and mark the course they take, which is upward. But to satisfy you still further, take the poker, and heat the end of it in the fire until it is red-hot. Withdraw it, and gently bring some small bits of very light paper to within a few inches above the heated surface; the bits of paper will be at once carried up into the air. This happens because the air heated by the poker immediately rises, and its place is taken by colder air, which on getting warmed, likewise ascends.
On this principle it is that our fire-places are constructed. The fire is placed above the floor, and a chimney is put over it to make a way or*passage for the heated air. Now
as soon as the fire is lighted the air next it gets warmed, and begins to mount, the air in the room being drawn in from below to take the place of that which rises. You will understand from this that we do not get all the warmth of a fire, but that the greater part of the heat passes up the chimney and is diffused in the cold air outside.
Now what happens on a small scale in our houses takes place on a far grander scale in nature. The sun is the source4 of heat, which warms and lights our globe. But here we must understand that the sun does not heat the air, but the surface of the globe—the land and water. But, you will say: How is the air, then, heated? Well, this is effected by the contact of the air with the surface of the earth, for there is a law in natural philosophy stating that if two unequally heated bodies be brought together the colder will draw from the warmer as much heat as is necessary to equalize the heat. So it is also here. The cold air coming in contact with the warm surface of the earth is heated, and ascends, and the colder air flows in from the neighborhood to take its place. This flowing in of air is wind. With this explanation I may be considered to have fulfilled my proposal, but as the young reader is probably interested in the subject, he may wish to know a little more about this phenomenon. Well, I will tell you two things more connected with it. The first is, why it is that at the sea-coast we notice in the evening and during the night a gentle breeze coming from the sea, and in the morning and during the day a breeze blowing from the land out to the sea. This is simply owing to the unequal heating and cooling of the sea and land, and also because the land parts more easily with its heat than the sea, causing therefore first a flow towards the land and then towards the sea. Now take a common school-globe, and notice some of the lines which are drawn round it, and we will see the second. Midway between the two poles you will notice a line running round that part of the globe which has the greatest projection. This line is called by geographers the equator. It divides the globe, as you can very easily see, into two halves or hemispheres. Now over the parts of the earth immediately near this line the sun shines with intense heat all the year round. The air is constantly heated to a high degree, and streams upwards in ascending currents. But just as the hot air on that circle mounts up to a certain height the cold air rushes in from both sides, and this constant streaming of air into the equatorial regions forms what are known as, and what I wished to tell you of—the Trade Winds. Some of our younger friends are not yet satisfied. They wish to know also why and how the clouds move? Well, to tell the truth, I never was up there; neither do I want to go, for many a one piid for the ascent with his life, but those of our balloonists who return safely say that when they came to a certain height their balloon was swept away by a current of air. These are the currents which move the clouds, and of course the stronger these currents are the faster the clouds move.  A. M.
Scientific Notes.
—M. Leverrier has been elected President of the Association Scientifique de France for the fifteenth time.
—The American Association for the Advancement of Science will hold its annual session this year in Nashville in August.
—The Trieste papers describe an extensive stalactite cavern, consisting of several galleries, lately discovered in the neighborhood of that city.

598
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—A work has just appeared in Berlin from the pen of Friederich von Baerenbach, in which the author endeavors to show that the main features of the evolution theory were partially comprehended and advocated by Herder.
—The German Ornithological Society instituted, during the past year, an extensive series of observations by means of schedules, on the dates of nest-building, appearance of the young broods, movements of migratory birds, etc. The statistics resulting from the first year’s observations are now being compiled, and will shortly be issued in bookform.
—At the Paris School of Arts and Trades experiments were lately made with a paper alleged to be incombustible. Sheets of it were exposed simply to the fierce flames of a spirit lamp without other effect than to slightly wither it. When the paper was exposed in bulk no effect was apparent. It was thought very desirable for the manufacture of bank notes. The secret of the manufacture rests with the experimenter.
—Prof. Lewes, in his Studies in Animal Life, says of the scientific knowledge of Prof. R. Owen: “I was one day talking with Professor Owen in the Hunterian Museum, when a gentleman approached with a request to be informed respecting the nature of a curious fossil which had been dug up by one of his workmen. As be drew the fossil from a small bag, and was about to hand it tor examination, Owen quietly remarked: ‘That is the third molar of the under jaw of an extinct species of rhinoceros.’ ”
—The U. S. Congress having appropriated 18,000 dollars for a Commission to report on the depredation of the Rocky Mountain locusts, the Secretary ot the Interior has appointed as members ot the Commission Prof. C. V. Riley, Dr. Cyrus Tuomas, and Dr. A. S. Packard. The Commissioners have already mapped out their work for the season, and will direct their attention to insect enemies and parasites, mechanical means for the destruction of the pests, geographical distribution, agricultural bearings of the subject, anatomy and embryology, remedial measures and migrations, etc. Bulletins giving the results of the Commission’s inquiries will be issued at intervals.
—In a recent lecture in Edinburgh on “The Stars,” Prof. Grant said that a railway train, travelling day and night fifty miles per hour, would reach the moon in six months, the sun in two hundred years, and Alpha Ceutauns, the nearest of the fixed stars, in forty-two millions of years; a cannon ball, travelling nine hundred miles per hour, in 2,700,000 years; and light, travelling 185,000 miles per second, in three years. Light from some ot the telescopic stars takes 5,760 years to reach the earth; from others 500,000 years. These stars, therefore, may have become extinct thousands of years ago, though their light comes to our eyes. Alpha Lyra is 100,000,000,000 of miles from us, and its magnitude and splendor are as 20 to 1 compared •with our sun. The sun is neither greater nor smaller than most of the stars.
—A fine white whale was taken, May 16th, to the aquarium, New York, from the coast of Labrador. Its length is about fifteen feet. It is over five thousand pounds weight, and is a remarkably fine specimen. The manner of catching these whales is novel. A large tank is sunk in one of the bays on the coast, and when the whales make their appearance within the inlet a strong net is stretched across the mouth of it. As the tide recedes, the creatures make for the open sea, but are prevented by the nets. They then naturally seek the deep water of the sunken tanks, and are thus secured. Afterward they are hoisted upon a vessel in waiting, transported to Quebec, and from there to this city. Upon their arrival here they are hoisted, tank and all, into the immense iron and glass tank at the aquarium, and are allowed to again disport themselves in their native element.
—It is the practice of the French Department of Public Instruction to send agents, specially qualified, to foreign countries on tours of artistic or scientific research. In 1875 grants were made for no fewer than twenty-eight missions of this kind, including those to such distant points as Peru, Alaska, Central Africa, and Cochin China. M. Cournault was despatched to Germany, Austria, and Hungary to make drawings of Gallic antiquities in those coun
tries, and has brought back a portfolio which will go to enrich, the National Library. M. Wiener has sent home many cases of curiosities illustrative of the early history of Peru, to which great interest attaches, while Dr. Jobert is collecting natural history specimens in Brazil. M. Fagnan has been sent to Oxford to transcribe in Arabic the text of the work of Ibn Bassam, very important in connection with the history of the Spanish Arabs. ■> Only one copy of this work is known to exist. The first volume is at Paris, the second at Oxford, the third at Gotha. France hopes soon to have a perfect copy. M. Saldi is on an inquiry as to the early art of engraving in London; M. Hebert on geological research in the maritime Alps; M. Guinet is studying on the spot the ancient faiths of China and Japan; Dr. Pietra Santa is on sanitary research in Turin. Many others are engaged in work equally interesting and important. Their reports are all submitted to the head of the department, and a committee decides what portion of them shall form a part of the national archives.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Gomez has written a new opera, “ Maria Tudor,” for the Scala next autumn.
—A life size statue of Esculapius, with both arms gone and a broken nose, has just been .unearthed at Athens.
—Au elaborate treatise on perfumes, odors, and cosmetics, by MM. Piesse, Chardin, and Massignon, is just out in Paris.
—Cardinal Manning is the author of the article in the current number of The Dublin Review on “Poland and .Russia.”
—Capt. Burnaby proposes publishing a supplementary volume to his “ Ride to Khiva,” descriptive of his journey in Asia Minor.
—M. Rubinstein has just given a concert, the programme of which consisted wholly of selections from his own works, in London.
—The Rev. Father Monsabre, the eloquent Dominican preacher of the Lent at Notre Dame, has lately appeared in Paris in the character of an eminent composer of ecclesiastical music.
—The Astor Library has 165,854 volumes, 13,408 having been added in 1876. During the year, 143,545 books were delivered to 47,853 readers, against 135,065 books and 42,606 readers in 1875.
—Hurd & Houghton have in press an illustrated work on “ The American Antelope and Deer, and their Domestication,” by the Hon. J. D. Caton, late Chief Justice of the Supreme Court.
—A new contribution to “ blue glass ” literature is announced from Philadelphia in a treatise on “Blue and Red Light,” which is to be printed in blue ink with red bordering and bound in blue cloth with red lettering. Dr. Pancoast is the writer.
—M. Palme, of Paris, publishes a new work by M. Ie Chanoine Chapiat, Histoire de V Egline UnvcerteUe, from Adam to Pius IX. The Univers speaks highly of it, saying that it is at the same time brief and clear. It is in one volume of some 700 pages.
—Messrs. Henry S. King & Co., of London, are about to publish four sermons by Cardinal Manning on the Pope’s recent Allocution. The Allocution itself, in the original Latin, together with an English translation, will form an Appendix to the sermons.
—A splendid bronze fountain has lately been inaugurated at Berlin. Around the base are four allegorical figures, representing the Rhine, Elbe, Oder, and Weser, each with its appropriate tribute, and in the middle of the basin are four smaller figures, representing Agriculture, Trade, Defensive Warfare, and Art.
—Miss Lily Eglantine Vogelbach, the young Philadelphian, who began her musical studies there and has since followed them in Germany and Paris under Mme. Garcia and M. Deserti, has appeared in Paris with considerable success. She attracted the noticq of Carlotta Patti, and was invited to sing at one of her soirees.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	599
—The pictures and water-color drawings of Eugene Delacroix, the property of Comte de Morny, have been sold in Paris. His celebrated painting of the Emperor Charles V at the Convent of St. Just sold for $1,960, and an interior for $90. Twenty water-colors painted in Morocco and considered among his most spirited productions were sold for $13,089.
—Herr Richter has prevailed upon Wagner to allow the whole of the “Nibelungen Ring” to be done at the Vienna opera. So the “Rhinegold” is to be mounted in the •autumn. The difficulty lay in the quarrel between M. *	Jauner, the director of the Vienna opera, and Wagner, be-
cause the former had invited M. Wolff, a Paris critic, and an avowed anti-Wagnerite, to accompany him to Bayreuth.
—Mr. Aubrey de Vere will issue, in a corrected form, his secular poetry published previous to 1872, in two volumes; which will be entitled Poems Meditative and Lyrical, Among the contents of the work will be “ Antar and Zara,” an Eastern Romance,” “Inisfail,” “The Fall of Rora” and “ The Search After Proserpine.” The author’s religious poems will be collected later, in a separate volume.
—It is announced in the Echo des Deux Mondes that the .	Very,‘Rev. Toussaint Mesplie, of Fort Boise, Idaho, a French
missionary, has been for several weeks engaged upon a work to be called “ Thirty Years of Missions in the Rocky Mountains.” Il will be in two volumes, of about six hundred pages each. The publication, in the French language, of this work—which, we have no doubt, will be interesting in every point of view—will commence in about a month in the Echo.
—Solomon Hirzer, publisher, whose death has been announced, has left the whole of his precious collection of Goethe books and MSS. to the Leipzig University, upon the condition that it be kept undivided and be exhibited' as the Hirzel Goethe Library. Its importance to Goethe students may be judged from the fact that, amongst other things, it contains nearly 400 original MSS., besides 16 quarto volumes of extracts from various publications con?	, cerning the author of “ Faust.”
—M. Philarete Chasles, according to an announcement in the Athenaeum, wrote a work on Shakspeare’s Sonnets, which his widow has translated and for which she hopes to.find an English publisher. M. Ghasles maintains in this work that the Sonnets were addressed, in different sections, to the two Lords Southampton and Pembroke, and to three ladies, one beauty in the summer of her prime, a second younger than the poet, who was then in the decline of his autumn, and a third, the dark, black-eyed musician, who alone is generally recognized.
—It is well known that Byron left an autobiography, which he gave to Tom Moore. The latter sold it to Murray for £2,000 for publication, but subsequently Moore, at the instance of some of Byron’s friends, who deemed it totally unfit for publication, bought it back. Among those who read it was Washington Irving, who, in his later days, often gave to his intimate friends many particulars regarding this work. It is now stated that the son of one of these friends intends to publish a work under the title of “The Suppressed Biography of Byron," and great indignation is expressed. Washington Irving, we happen to know, expressed his opinion most strongly against its publication.
—At the little seaport of Roscoff in northern Brittany is a small chapel now in ruins dedicated to Saint Ninian. This chapel was erected in 1548 by the unfortunate Queen Mary Stuart, on the spot where she landed coming from •	Scotland, then the happy bride of the dauphin Francis the
II. It is historical that in commemoration of this event, a' ac-simile of the foot of the young princess was engraved on the rock, and on this very spot was afterwards built the little Gothic chapel, charmingly beautiful in its simplicity, as even the very ruins testify. The roof has for a long time disappeared, but the arched portal although damaged by the considerable number of years, is still in existence. The chapel was near falling to pieces, when at the instigation of some pious souls, the Marquis of Bute promised a sum of 4000 francs for the purchase of a lot, on which a house of refuge for Roscoff is to be built. The chapel will thus be saved. A subscription has been opened in which the Bretons will take part, and there is every hope that the sanctuary will be rebuilt in its primitive shape.
—In connection with the recent sale of some pictures by Adrian Van de Velde the Flemish painter, the Journal d'Anvers relates how he became possessed of his country house near Antwerp. This house belonged to the great Lord Clarendon, and Van de Velde, happening to pass by it one day, was so much struck by the beauty of the site and of the gardens that he determined to transfer them to canvas. He took up his quarters in a neighboring village, and after completing the picture went with it to London, where he put it into a public sale with a heavy reserve upon it. Lord Clarendon, who was in London at the time, happened to attend the sale, and, recognizing his own house, bid for the picture. There were several other offers, and Lord Clarendon, after being outbid several times, said, “I will give the original for this copy.” At the word “copy” the painter, who was in the room, apostrophized Lord Clarendon in no measured terms, and asked him what he meant by suggesting that the picture was a copy. Lord Clarendon repeated his offer, adding, “I know that Van de Velde is the painter, and I will give him the original for the painting.” There was no mistaking what this meant; the picture was withdrawn.
Books and Periodicals.
—The contents of the May number of the Catholic Record are: I, Dean Stanley and “ The Religion of the Future ”; II, A Chaplet of Verse for our Blessed Lady’s Month; HI, The Birthday Greeting; IV, John Nelson’s Marriage; V, A Thought in Springtime; VI, Pilgrims of the Olden Times; VII, At Valentano, 1867; VIII, Lacordaire; LX, Lost Alice; X, Editorial Notes; XI, New Publications. Known too Late. By the Author of “Tyborne,” “Irish
Homes and Irish Hearts,” etc. Baltimore: Kelly, Piet & Company, 174 West Baltimore Street. 1877.
“Known too Late” is a charming story, told by Miss Taylor in a manner at once easy and elegant, and is worthy the author of “Tyborne,” a novel so well known to Catho-lie readers. The book is well got up; the paper is tinted, the press work good and the binding neat and tasty.
Hortense: An Historical Romance. Translated from the
French by R. J. Halm. Baltimore: Kelly, Piet & Company.	(
1877.	•	.	-
Bessy: Or The Fatal Consequence of Telling Lies. By the
Writei of “ The Effects of Disobedience.” Baltimore: Kelly	■
Piet & Company. 1877.	■
These two books contain a good moral, and are suited to	j
the wants of children: hence they will do good service in Sunday school libraries. They are printed on tinted paper,	!
and are neatly gotten up in cloth binding.	|
—The following are the contents of the June number of	|
the Catholic World: I, The Papal Jubilee; II, Pope Pius	i
the Ninth; III, A Vision of the Colosseum, A. D. 1873;	1
IV, The Doom of the Bell; V, Wild Koses by the Sea; VI,	|
Divorce, and Divorce Laws; VII, From the Hecuba of	I
Euripides; VIII, Six Sunny Months; IX, To Pope Pius .
IX; X, Tne Present State of Judaism in America; XI, Letters of a Young Irishwoman to her Sister; XII, Prose	,
and Poetry of Ancient Music; XHI, The Romance of a Portmanteau; XIV, The Brides of Christ; XV, Shaks-	,
pere, from an American Point of View; XVI, New Publications.
—The contents of the June number of Our Young Folks' Magazine are varied and interesting, and will doubtless be read with great eagerness by boys and girls. The frontis-	i
piece of the number is embellished by a portrait of the Pope. The contents are: I, Little Barefoot; II, Little . Jenny’s Mistake; III, Good Rules for Life; IV, The Young Wanderer; V, Cryptography; VI, A Good Name; VII, Father Michael; VIH, The Story that Lorrimer Told; IX, Little Feet and Little Hands; X, Molly; XI, The Two Friends; XII, A. Nameless Hero; XIII, A. Story of an Anniversary; XIV, Aunt Tuankful; XV, Up and Away; Departments:—Evenings at Home; Our Post Office; Our Young Contributors; Puzzle Drawer; A Chapter on Magic.	  .
—“You’ve heard Brown’s married again?” “No! Has	;
he? Stupid ass! He didn’t deserve to lose his first wife.”
—Punch.	‘	;
600
THE NOTRE^DAME SCHOLASTIC.

jWotre Dame, May 26, 1S77.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
Choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former Students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should taae it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, Post paid.
Address Editor .Notre Dame Scholastic,
Notre Dame, Indiana
The Church and Liberty.
Even a casual observer cannot but wonder at the rapid growth of the Catholic Church in the United States during the last one hundred years. At the beginning of this period there were but few Catholics in this country, for although they were persecutedin England, Ireland and Scotland, aud^deprived of the open ministrations of their spiritual pastors in those aud other countries, yet they could find just as little toleration in the Colonies at that time. Until Lord Baltimore and his colony of English and Irish emigrants,—“ nearly all of whom,” says McSherry, “ were Catholics, and gentlemen of fortune and respectability, who desired to fly from the spirit of intolerance which pervaded England, and to rear up their altars in freedom in the wilderness,”—there was no religious freedom in America, or at least in that portion of it which is now the United States. This was in 1634. At the same time the Puritans of Massachusetts were persecuting or banishing anyone who.happened among them of a different religious belief; there was no toleration there, and we see Roger Williams and others compelled to seek a home elsewhere or give up their religious belief. In fact they were getting off cheaply enough if they left in sano corpore. The Indians of Maine were hunted down because they professed the Faith of Columbus, and we see them spurning the offer of Governor Dudley of Boston in 1713 to rebuild their burned church if they would accept a minister instead of a “ black-gown.” O’Kane Murray in his Popular History of the United States tells us that an act of the penal code of New York in 1700 made it a felony to proclaim one’s self a Catholic there, a few of the penalties being (1) Any Catholic clergyman found within the limits of the Colony of New York after November 1st, 1700, should be “ deemed an incendiary, an enemy of the Christian religion, and shall be adjudged to suffer perpetual imprisonment.” (2) If a Catholic priest escaped from prison and was retaken, he was to suffer death.
(3) Anyone harboring a priest was liable to be fined $1,000, and to stand three days on the pillory.’ Another law, passed in 1701, excluded Catholics from office, and deprived them of the right to vote. lu .1702, Queen Ann “granted liberty of conscience to all the inhabitants of New York, Papists excepted.” The British Parliament in 1718 passed a law to the effect that any Popish Bishop, priest or Jesuit, found saying Mass or exercising any other part of his office, was to be perpetually imprisoned, and any Cath- ’ olic convicted of keeping school or educating youth was to be perpetually imprisoned. Thus “ the tyrannical Government of England,” continues O’Kane Murray, “did its utmost to rob every man professing Catholicity of the rights bestowed upon him by the great God of earth and heaven! ” This was 84 years after the Catholic Lord Baltimore proclaimed universal civil and religious liberty in Maryland, and 57 years before the breaking out of the Revolutionary War that gained us our independence—that struggle in which the Catholic names of Pulaski and Kosciusko from Catholic Poland,—Barry, Moylan, Montgomery and a host of others from Catholic Ireland,—Lafayette, De Grasse, Rochambeau and others from Catholic France, and the gallant Baron de Kalb, German by birth, French by adoption, shine in a galaxy beside those of Washington, Jefferson, Franklin, Adams, Hancock and the Catholic Carroll of our own country,—and in which the Catholic Indians of Maine, the famed Abnaki, furnished some of the truest and bravest soldiers of the Revolution.
In the face of such facts is it not siugular that many of our modern journalists—and among them in particular some of the editors of our American College papers—speak as though the Catholic Church were the enemy of freedom of every kind, religious, civil, and scientific! Only the other day we received an enlightened journal from the enlightened North, the Colby Echo, in which such a principle was advanced, and the enlightened journals of Harvard we believe it was who took the University Chronicle to task for exempting the Church from the charge of persecuting Galileo. They seem to be ignorant of the fact that the belief and practice of Catholicity refine, elevate, and expand the human mind; that the philosophy of history first found a habitation and a name in St. Augustine’s “City of God”; that the Catholics Bossuet, Schlegel and Balmes continued the work in their respective limes; that the invention of water-mills, glass, and silk manufactures belongs to the 6th century; that bells and organs for churches were invented in the seventh century; that the music scale was invented by a monk; that double-entry book-keeping originated in Catholic Italy; that powder was invented by a monk; that Roger Bacon, the Franciscan monk of the 13th century, was a far more learned man than Francis Bacon, the Protestant chancellor, of the 16th; that printing, the making of paper from rags, oil painting, and postal routes, owe their origin to the Catholics of the 15th century; that the luminous Catholic intellect of St. Thomas Aquinas built up the Summa; that the Catholic Leonardo da Vinci constructed the first canal with a series of locks; that as great architects the names of the Catholics Michael Angelo, Raphael and Bramante stand unrivalled; that the Catholic Virgilius, an Irish priest, first discovered the sphericity of the earth; that another Catholic priest, Copernicus, gave us our present system of astronomy; that Galileo, Torricelli, Boscovich, Gessandi, Descartes, Pascal, Piazzi, Malebranche, Galvani, De Vico,,Volta and Secchi lay claim to the title of children of the same Church; that
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
601
Pope Gregory it was who reformed the Calendar, and Protestant England, rather than agree with the Pope, fonght against the sun and stars for nearly two hundred years; that the great universities of Paris, Salamanca, Coimbra, Bologna, Oxford, Cambridge, Pavia, Vienna, and others, were founded and maintained by Catholics; that most of the great poets were Catholics or drew their inspiration from Catholic sources—that Dante, Petrarch, Chaucer—styled by some the “ Father of English Poetry ” —Shakespeare, Tasso, Calderon, Vega, CamoSns, Racine, Dryden, Pope and Moore were Catholics; that the Catholic names of Palestrina, Beethoven, Haydn and Mozart stand first in the list of musical composers.* It would be well if some of these college editors and others read up a little before casting a slur on an honorable body, one to whom they owe nearly all that they have worthy of prizing. If they but read up history they will find that for the liberty we of the United States now enjoy we are greatly, aye mainly, indebted to Catholic arms and Catholic money. They will find that although Catholics were in the proportion of only one to one hundred and twenty in the population of the Colonies, they were largely represented in the gallant army which wrenched them from the clutches of tyrannic Protestant England. The Catholics took a noble part in the Revolution, says O’Kane Murray; with an admirable magnanimity the persecuted followers of the creed of Alfred and Charlemagne, of Columbus and Carroll, drew the veil of oblivion over all past grievances, thought only of present duty, and threw their whole weight into the scale of independence. One of the most famous and learned of the Signers of the Declaration of Independence was the. Catholic Charles Carroll, of Maryland. “ There go millions,” said Franklin, as Carroll, in a bold hand, wrote his name on the immortal document. Another remarking that he might, unlike Hancock and Adams, still escape with his neck and fortune in case of failure, as there were many Charles Carrolls, the heroic Marylander answered that there was but one Charles Carroll “of Carrollton,” as he added these memorable words to his signature. “ The Lexington of the Seas,” as Cooper terms it—the first sea-fight in the interest of American independence—was fought under a Catholic commander, Jeremiah O’Brien. This naval encounter took place May 11th, 1775, in Machias Bay, Maine, and resulted in the capture of two Brittish store-ships, O’Brien and his four brothers doing noble feats of valor on that day. Commodore John Barry, justly styled the “Father of the American Navy,” was also a pious Catholic—and a truer, braver man than whom, perhaps, never lived. He not only founded our navy, fought and won its early battles, but also trained those other brave and skilful commanders, Murray, Decatur, Dale and Stewart. “There was no Catholic traitor during our Revolution,” says Archbishop Spalding, although Catholics were to be found in all positions, from the simple sailor to the head of our navy, from the private to the major-general. The brave Moylan, a brother to the Roman Catholic Bishop of Cork, was, at the head of his dragoons, in nearly every important engagement during the war, and General Washington’s “Life Guard,” a chosen body of men, was composed largely of Catholics, in the list of whom may be found such names as Charles Dougherty, James Hughes, Denis Moriarty, William Hennessy, Jeremiah Driscoll, L. Dajley, John Finch, Thomas Gillen, and others, whose patronym alone is
enough to show whence they sprung, but whose descendants would be excluded only a few years ago from all office and privilege by the know-nothing descendants’of the Tories of ’76. The rank and file of the Revolutionary army not only contained thousands of such men,—and, what to Catholics seems quite natural, but to those who have been brought up in a prejudiced school may appear extraordinary, there was also “a Jesuit” leader among them, for when Franklin, Chase and Carroll were despatched by Congress to Canada in order to gain the Canadians over to their cause, Father John Carroll, of the Society of Jesus— afterwards appointed Bishop of the United States at the suggestion of Benjamin Franklin—was invited to join them, and De Courcy writes of him that he was ever “ a sincere patriot, a zealous partisan of liberty, and one of the real founders of American Independence.” Also, in 1780, when great distress prevailed, we see among the names of Philadelphian merchants contributing to the common fund such Catholic ones as James Mease, $25,000; Hugh Sheil, $25,000; John Mease, $20,000; I. Delaney, $4,000. And, then again, the great assistance lent our armies—in fact an equivalent, and more than an equivalent, to all they could of themselves, unaided, accomplish—by Catholic France and Spain, the former having supplied to the cause of the America^ Revolution 10,000 men and $300,000,000, while ' our army was mainly indebted to this the “ eldest daughter .of the Church ” for artillery and skilled engineers, while
Catholic Spain threw open all her ports as neutral to the marine of the then struggling Colonies—“as yet unknown, even by name, to the political world, and ceased not until the powers of Northern Europe joined with her in proclaiming the ‘Armed Neutrality-Act,’ to which John Adams declared America owed her independence as much as to any other cause. Catholic Spain made a present of 1,000,000 francs to our struggling Republic, sent 3,000 barrels of gunpowder, and blankets for 10 regiments, threw open Havana to our navy, intimating that military stores could be got from the magazine there; paid the salary of the American Minister at Madrid; in a word proved herself a true friend in the hourof distressing need.” At home we see the Catholic Vicar-General Gibault, in 1778, using his influence here in Indiana in favor of the Colonies, and inducing his flock to declare in theirjfavor and against England. When Vincennes was captured by the British iu 1779, and Colonel Clarke assembled his troops to recapture the town, Father Gibault made a patriotic address to them and bestowed his blessing upon “ the heroic little band.” It is also stated that he administered the oath of allegiance to the American Government in his little church with great solemnity at a period anterior to this event. In fact his exertions are said to have greatly facilitated our conquest of the northwest.*
It was therefore not without good reason that Washington, when he went to the camp at Boston and found that the bigots there intended to burn the Pope in effigy, issued the following order, in 1775, condemning such an outrage-our proceeding: “ November 5th.—As the Commander-in-chief has been apprized of a design formed for the observance of that ridiculous and childish custom of burning the effigy of the Pope, he cannot help expressing his surprise that there should be officers and soldiers in this army so void of common sense as not to see the impropriety of such a step........It is so monstrous as not to be suffered, or excused. Indeed, instead of offering the most remote in-
* O’Kane Murray, Popular History, pp. 534-5.
* Prof. Clarke’s “Lives of the Deceased Bishops,” Vol. n, p. 32.
602
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
suit, it is our duty to address public thanks to our (Catholic) brethren, as to them we are indebted for every late success over the common enemy in Canada.” We commend this extract from the writings of the Patri Patrice to the consideration of such College and other editors as make it a point from time to time to cast their slurs upon Catholics and the Catholic Church, without any just cause, for neither has ever done them or their forefathers any injury—in fact the injury is all on the other side; if they wish to read up a little iurther they may obtain a copy of Bishop Gibbons’s “Faith of Our Fathers” (and their fathers), and O’Kane Murray’s “ History of the Church in the United States,” which may prepare them to take a step further, and further, until they come to St. Thomas Aquinas’s grand compend of Catholic Theology. There they will learn what the Catholic Church really is, and that she is not what they supposed her to be.
True, the Church has neither done nor instigated these things, has not been the cause of the foregoing acts in the history of the United States—for she is inimical to no par-particular form of government, whether monarchical or republican,—she is a spiritual body, leaving her children free in politics and to any form of government they deem best, requiring only of them what her Divine Founder exacted, namely that haviug given to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s, they give also to God the things that are God’s,— but we think it is enough to convince the veriest blockhead that she in nowise hampers freedom of thought or action when conducted within the limits drawn by the Divine Law, the root and foundation of all beneficial laws, civil or religious. No: although the Church loves'liberty, and everything else that tends to the happiness of her children without trenching on the Divine Law, she does not interfere directly or indirectly in the measure or manner in which they choose to have their civil liberty—whether in a monarchical, oligarchical or republican form; these are temporal—her domain is spiritual; they are for time, she works for eternity; she cau therefore without partiality take to her bosom a Constantine, a Charlemagne, an Alfred the Great, a Bruce, or a St. Louis, as kings, as she can on the other hand give her maternal embrace to a Hofer, a Tell, a Moylan or a Barry. It our saying so has no weight, at least historic facts should, and would bring conviction if presented impartially. Therefore those who seem to be so much afraid of the growing influence of the Church should set their minds at rest on the matter. Her supremacy is only a question of time, and when it does come it will be the better for all concerned.
It is in nowise surprising that the Catholic Church has made such rapid strides in the United States since they became a free country, for the Church is the only true friend of freedom, moral, civil, or religious. She it was that freed humanity Irom the degrading thrall in which paganism held it at the coming of Christ, that rehabilitated woman, raised her irom a condition of the most abject slavery, and placed her as the queen of the household ; and she it is who still protects her rights in the matrimonial bond where her benign sway is acknowledged. The Church can only thrive and grow strong in a free country, for she and tyranny are incongenial companions. She gives liberty without allowing it to deteriorate into licenliousnes, and this latter is the true reason why she is condemned and persecuted; the two extremes of tyranny and licentiousness are condemned in her code of morals, hence it is that tyrants and profligates are her sworn enemies.
Personal.
—D. J. Hogan, of ’74, recently sailed for a short visit to Ireland.
—George McNulty (Commercial), of ’76, is City Recorder of Alton, Ill.
—George Duffy (Commercial), of ’72, resides in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
—Rev. D. J. Spillard, of ’64, is building a beautiful church at Austin, Texas.
—John Dunn (Commercial), of’72, is living in St. Louis, doing well, we are told.
—P. H. Davis (Commercial), of ’70, is superintendent of the Milwaukee omnibus line.
—Louis Hibben (Commercial), of ’72, is in the County Clerk’s office, Marshalltown, Ill.
—William Gross (Commercial), of ’73, is in the drygoods business at St Charles, Ill.
—John O’Connell (Commercial), of ’73, is in the Western Union Telegraph Office, Alton, III.
—John W. Coppinger (Commercial), of ’69, is secretary of the Alton Gas Works, Alton, Ill.
—Rev. Dr. E. B. Kilroy, of ’49, finds it impossible to be the orator of the Alumni this year.
—Rev. John Fitzharris, of ’69, is assistant pastor of St-Joseph’s Church, No. 40 West Washington street, New York city.
—Louis Ross and Robert Hinde (both Commercial), of ’65, are in the dry-goods business at Lewiston, Ill. The firmname is Ross & Hinde.
—T. A. Dailey, of’74, called on us last Wednesday. He reports everything connected with the Herald office, South Bend, as lovely as could be wished.
—According’ to the Chicago Times, Prof. Gregori expects to finish his work here by next August. This accomplished, he will open a studio in Chicago.
—F. W. Montgomery (Commercial), of ’75, is now manager W.U. Telegraph Office, and Freight and Ticket Agent 0. and M. R. W., at Montgomery’s, Indiana.
—Among the visitors the past week were: Chas. Hert-zog, of Chicago; Mr. Sievers, of Chicago; C. Wohlrab, of Niles; N. Kern, of Detroit; F. Fenton, of Niles; and M. Zaukweert, of Gand, Belgium.
—Mr. Louis S. Hayes, of ’74, in a very welcome letter received last week, desires to be remembered to all his friends at Notre Dame. We are happy to hear that Mr. Hayes is doing well, and to know that he does not forget his classmates and friends.
—Michael Walsh (Commercial), of ’70, paid a short visit to the College during the past week. Mr. Walsh has done excellently well since his departure from College. He is at present keeping books for the best hotel (Aveline House) in Fort Wayne, Ind.
—The lecture delivered before the Total Abstinence Society in St. Patrick’s Church, Sunday evening, by Rev. A. B. Oechtering, of Mishawaka, was one of the most finished, eloquent and classical discourses ever delivered in this city. His theme, “The Catholic Church of To-day,” was followed closely from point to point with clear, forcible logic and easy graceful language. The church was crowded, and the proceeds go entirely to the Temperance Society.— South Bend Herald.
Local Items.
—To-morrow is Trinity Sunday.
—We are having our office repainted.
—The Band has been out serenading quite frequently of late.
—Are we to have a musical soiree before the end of the year?
—Br. Alban’s little bird met with an untimely death on the 22d.
—Br. Leander will give his Juniors a grand picnic next Wednesday.
—There should be plenty of vocal music given during Commencement week.
—The Members of the Choral Union are rehearsing Keller’s National Anthem.
—Bro. Albert had his young artists out sketching, last Saturday, for the first time.
—By mistake the name of W. Dechant was omitted from the roll of honor last week.
—The religious societies will appear in regalia at the procession on Corpus Christi.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
603
—Douglas Ryan has been chosen to represent the Archconfraternity on Society Day.
—The Junior fishermen were out on their regular fishing excursion last Wednesday.
—Workmen have been engaged for some time making repairs on the dome of the College.
—Br. Eusebius has returned to Notre Dame after a long journey through the Southern States.
—The two crews are now at practice regularly, and. a close race may be expected on the 26th.
—The Band will give open-air concerts every Wednesday afternoon until the end of the year.
—Messrs. Ireland & Son will be on hand during Commencement week with their livery teams.
—The Catalogues will not be given out this year until a couple of weeks after the Commencement.
—After the close of the month of May the evening recreations will be longer than they now are.
—This time the Juniors did their fishing in the St. Joe. They were not as successful as at the lake.
—In a few weeks the decorations of the interior of the tower of'the church will be entirely completed.
—The Junior societies of the-College had a grand union ice-cream trekt last Thursday. The boys enjoyed it.
—The last of the month of May sermons will be preached next Wednesday evening by Kev. President Golovin.
—All who intend erecting arches for the procession on the Feast of Corpus Christi ought to begin making them.
—Messrs. Kauffman, Widdicombe and Ohlman will act as marshals for the Archconfraternity on Corpus Christi.
—The usual monthly Conference was held on Wednesday, at which a number of interesting papers were read.
—As Thursday next will be a holyday of obligation the regular weekly meeting of the Faculty will be held on Tuesday.
—The parts in the play of “Damon and Pythias,’’ to be given the night before the Commencement, have been assigned.
—The championship game of baseball to have been played on last Wednesday was postponed for some reason or other.
—Mr. Shickey will be on hand during Commencement week, prepared to furnish conveyances from South Bend to Notre Dame.
—At the conclusion of the Mass of the Alumni, June 26 th, the Te Deum will be sung iu unison with accompaniment by the organ and Band.
—The Choral Union are rehearsing the Pope’s Hymn for the 3rd of Juue, the Golden Jubilee of Pius IX. We hope it will be well rendered.
—The Orchestra is engaged on a number of new pieces for Commencement week. Among other overtures is that of “ Othello,” by Rossini.
—Who was it said the potato-bugs were leaving us? Why, they are just loafing around here in crowds waiting for the young potatoes to sprout.
—The Curator of the Museum acknowledges with thanks the receipt of the seventh volume of the Geological Survey of Indiana by E. Cox, State Geologist.
—Messrs. Ireland & Son still continue their livery businessin South Bend, and are prepared to accommodate every oue wishing to travel between South Bend and Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.
—We understand that the Catholic societies of the three churches in South Bend will take part in the procession on Corpus Christi. We believe also that the societies of Mishawaka will also attend in regalia.
—The May devotions will finish this coming week. We believe that most of the students will regret that this is the case, for the exercises of the month have been conducted in a manner which has delighted every one.
—Mr. Bonney does a good business here in the line of photography every Wednesday. Towards the end of the
scholastic year he will come to Notre Dame every day until he has photographed all who desire to sit.
—Who in the Junior Department will come out ahead in the average percent, of the examination? There should be a lively competition for the highest percent., and now is the time to go to work iu real earnest to make it.
—We learn that there will be a great number here on Commencement Day. With Hon. Frank Hurd, of Ohio, orator of the day, and T. A. Dailey, of the Herald, poet of the Alumni, we doubt not every one attending will be delighted.
—The 36th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopa-trian Society took place May 14th. After the usual exercises a unanimous vote of thanks was tendered to Brs. Leopold and Paul, also to Profs. T. E. Howard and A. J. Stace for special favors.
—The chimes are soon to be put in order so as to play an air once each hour in the day. The cylinder by which the bells were played has not been arranged since the bells were put in their present position. We are glad to know that it is now to be attended to.
—There are only three English papers published in Indiana having over 5,000 subscribers: the Ave Maria of Notre Dame, and the Journal and Farmer of Indianapolis.* So we learn from Pettengili's Newspaper Directory. The Ave Maria has the greatest, viz: over 10.000.
—Rev. L. J. Letourneau lately paid a flying visit to La Salle, Springfield and Alton, 111. At La Salle the Brothers of Holy Cross have 250 pupils; at Springfield, 290; and at Alton, 130. During the winter months the number of pupils is much larger in each of these cities.
—Those who are to take part in the exercises of Society Day are busily engaged in preparing for the occasion. We think the entertainments given on Society Day.and Graduates’ Day will be even more interesting than in former years. The orations will be prepared with great care.
—Formerly it was a barbarous custom to toast distinguished personages on state occasions, but the custom is now growing into disuse. We presume people think that unless distinguished personages lead better lives they will have more toasting than they want in the life to come.
—A few days’ work done in improving the bank of the lake near the boat-house would be appreciated by every one visiting the lake. That spot is the only eyesore on the whole bank, and could it be put in keeping with the remainder it would beaconsummation devoutly to be wished for.
—Everyone seemed to be effected more or less by the h eat last Saturday.
“ ’Tis dreadful hot! exclaims each one
Unto his sweating, sweltering, roasting neighbor;
Then mops his brow, and sighs, as he had done, ‘A quite herculean labor 1 ”’	-
—Next Thursday should be celebrated with all the display possible. It is not only the Feast of Corpus Christi, but also of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart. Besides, it is the closing of the month of May, the anniversary of the blessing of the statue on the dome, and of the laying of the corner stone of the new church.
—You may talk about your salmon, brook-trout, etc., but take the students on a recreation day after a fishing excursion, and lay before them common rock-bass that were caught and prepared by themselves, and they want nothing better. We might exclaim with the darkie: “Say dem greasy words over agen.”
—Vespers to morrow are of Trinity Sunday,. Vesperal, pages 96 and 97, witn Commemoration of St. Urban and of the Sunday. The Mass will be Missa Parvulorum, page 38 of the Kyriale. On Thursday, Vespers will be of Corpus Christi, pages 98, 99 and 100 of the Vesperal. The Mass will be Missa Regia, page 32 of the Kyriale.
—Most of the classes are engaged in reviewing, and the spirit displayed by the majority of the students, giving as they do serious attention to their work, is highly commendable. We expect that all the classes will make fine showings at the examination. Which class will come out with the highest percent, is now impossible to tell. We expect there will be serious competitions.
604
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—On the 23d inst. a game of baseball was played between the Quicksteps and Young Americas. For the benefit of those to whom results of match games between the above nines are often misrepresented, we would remark that at the close of the last half of the 5th inning the Young Americas were obliged to return to their yard, the score standing —Quicksteps, 18; Young Americas, 10.	.
—The South Bend Herald, quoting from an article which appeared in our last number, says: “The Scholastic of last week has the best written article on the “ Classical Education of Women” which we have ever read. The strong, logical ground taken in favor of high culture and the Addisonian rhetoric are alike a credit to the author’s intellect and grace of expression. We have room for only one quotation, and it is a gem.”
—The South Bend Herald says: “ We have had several communications asking the date of the College Commencement. A great many people want to hear Hon. Frank Hurd, the hero of the last Congress. For their benefit we will state that the programme will be announced in time so they can all come.” Mr. Hurd will give his oration on the 27th of June, on which day we expect to see our friends from all quarters of the Union.
‘ —The 34th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Society was held May 22d. The following delivered declamations; A. Burger, W. A. Widdicombe, W. Ohlman, M. Kauffman, F. Cavanaugh, C. Hagan, J. Hagerty, D. Ryan, Gr. Cassidy R. P. Mayer, W. Hake, 0. Lindberg, T. Fischel, G. Sugg, F. McGrath, C. Walsh, T.. Nelson, R. Golsen, C. Fax6n, J. Mosal, G. Sampson, J. Phelan and N. Vannamee. Master Hatt was then elected a member.
—The following are the crews of the Boat Club: Minnehaha—stroke, H. C. Cassidy; 2d, T. McGrath; 3d, W. T. Ball; 4th, T. C. Logan; Sth, W- P. Breen; bow, P. Skahill ; and coxswain, J. P. McHugh. Hiawatha—stroke, J. Coleman; 2d, J. Hynds; 3d, N. J. Mooney; 4th, R. Calkins; Sth, E. White; bow, P. J. Mattimore; and coxswain, J. G. Ewing. The race comes off on the 26th of June. Would it not be well to have it come off in the morning instead of the afternoon ?
—Mr. Thomas A. Dailey—as we learn from his paper— business manager of the Herald, has been invited to deliver the Commencement poem at Notre Dame this year; and Hon. Frank Hurd, of Toledo, will be the orator. The honors conferred on these gentlemen by this selection, is one on which they may be congratulated. Speaking for Mr. Dailey, whom we know, we feel sure he will prove happily equal to the occasion. A few years ago he was a member of the faculty of this institution of learning.— The St. Joseph Valley Register.
—The pupils of the Artistic Drawing Classes show great enthusiasm for their studies. Sketching from nature is very popular with them at present. By the close of the session they will have learned sufficient to enable them to continue to practice without a master during vacation. They will thus spend many a delightful hour that they would otherwise be at a loss to employ usefully. This is the case especially with those whose homes are situated amidst piciuresqne scenery. A. K. Schmidt, A. Hatt, J. Mosal, R. Golsen, C. J. Clarke and T. Nelson deserve special mention for marked improvement and close appli cation in this useful branch of education.
—The young gentlemen of the Law Class were engaged on quite an important case on the 9th inst. The Grand Jury of the Circuit Court of Notre Dame having found an indictment against J. P. McH. for the murder of his servant, the case was entrusted to Messrs. Gross and Arnold on behalf of the'State, whilst Messrs. Logan and McIntyre appeared for the defense. The witnesses for the State were Messrs. E. White, F. Maas, W. T. Ball and J. P. Quinn, and for the defense, the prisoner himself and Mr. W. L. Dechant. The jurors were C. Otto, foreman, J. Coleman, N. J. Mooney, H. C. Cassidy, W. P. Breen and J. G. Ewing. The case was remarkably-well argued on both sides, and during the progress of the trial it became apparent that those engaged were well drilled on the many intricate points of the law, and that each of the members of the Class was the possessor of no small amount of legal acumen.
Roll of Honor.
[In the following list are the names of those students who dur. ing the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
; J. Burke, P. Cooney, R. Calkins, J. Coleman, W. Dodge, W. Dechant, J. Ewing, L. Evers, J. Fitzgerald, T. Garrity, P. Hagan, J. F. Krost, J. Kinney, J. Kuebel, F. Keller, W. Keily, J. Larkin, H. Maguire, J. Montgomery, P. J. Mattimore, P. W. Mattimore, J. Murphy, T. McGrath, J. McEniry, W. McGorrisk, Carl Otto, J. O’Rourke, P. O’Leary, L. Proudhomme, J. Patterson, J. Perea, T. Quinn, E. Riopelle, M. Regan, P. Skahill, A. Schmidt, G. Saylor, F. Schlink, P. Tamble, F. Vandervannet, M. Williams, C. Whittenberger.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Anderson, A Bergck, J. A Burger, A. J. Burger, J. Bell, G. P. Cassidy, H. Canoll, C. H. Colwell, M. Condon, J. English, C. Faxon, R. French, W. Hake, J. Ingwerson, G. Ittenbach, C. E. Johnson, R. C. Johnson, R. E. Keenan, M. B. Kauffman, O. Lindberg, F. W. Lang, J. Lumley, F. T. McGrath, C. McKinnon, J. McTague, T. Nelson, C. T. Orsinger, E. Pennington, F. T. Pleins, E. F. Poor, C. Peltier, W. J. Rogers, H. Rogers, W. J. Ryan, F. Rheinboldt, J. P. Reynolds, P. Schnurrer, K. L. Scanlan, J. R. Schobey, G. E. Sugg, J. W. Sill, W. Taulby, C. Van Mourick, W. Vander Hayden, T. Wagner, L. Wolf, V. Hanson, T. Fischel.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
P. Nelson, P. Heron, Rudolph Pleins, John Seeger, W. McDevitt, W. Coolbaugh, Geo. Rtiodius, Geo. Lambin, Geo. Lowrey, J. Scanlan, G. Hadden, E. Carqueville, A. Coghlin, W. Cash, C. Reif, F. Gaffney, J. Inderrieden, F. Carqueville, A. Rheinboldt, C. Kauffman, H. Riopelle, W. Carqueville, W. Coghlin, Jos. Inderrieden, C. Long, H. Snee.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
FOR THE MONTH ENDING MAY 24.
COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, ETO.
German—A. Abrahams, C. Orsinger, B. Heeb, R. Mayer, J. Haererty, P. Schnurrer, M. Kauffman, J. F. Krost, E. Pefferman, J. Krost, R. Golsen, T. Wagner, J. Ingwerson, A. Burger, F. Vandervannet, F. Lang, J. Mosal, G. Crawford, L. Frazee, F. Cavanaugh, J. English, W. Widdicombe, J. Larkin, C. Faxon, I. Rose, J. Ittenbach, C. Clarke, A. Bergck, E. Carqueville, C. Kauffman, C. Reif, G. Lowrey, W. Carqueville, H. Kitz, C. Hertzog, F. Carqueville.
French—A Hertzog, L. Proudhomme, K. Scanlan, E. White, G. Saxinger, M. Kauffman, W. Taulby.
Drawing—A Hatt, A Schmidt, J. Carrer, C. Clarke, O. Lindberg, R. Golsen, G. Ittenbach.
Painting—A. K. Schmidt, A. Hatt, J. Mosal.
Telegraphy.—J. Proudhomme, M. Smith, T. Quinn, F. Ewing, T. Fischel, E. Pefferman, J. Fitzgerald, J. Burke, J. Rothert.
Violin.—A K. Schmidt, W. Vanderhadden, J. McHugh, W. Taulby, E. Moran, J. Rothert, M. Kauffmann, G. Sampson, E. White, G. McGorrisk, F. Rheinboldt, A. Sievers, C. Walsh, P. Skahill, F. McGrath, W. Hake, R. Keily, P. Schnurrer, J. Barry, C. Peltier.	.
Flute.—W. Chapoton, J. English, T. Wagner, G. Laurans.
Cornet.—A. Sievers.

—Great preparations are being made here to celebrate the Feast of Corpus Christi with becoming solemnity. Three altars will befitted up on St. Mary’s grounds. The friends and former pupils of the Institution will have a lovely opportunity of assisting in decorating these temporary altars by sending suitable ornaments.
—On Whit Sunday the altars of the Convent Chapel were beautifully decked for the grand Feast of Pentecost. The Rev. Chaplain celebrated the Solemn High Mass. The necessity of a more spacious chapel at St. Mary’s is becoming more and more evident every year, for the inmates of the house form a large congregation.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	605
—As a present reward for their close application to study and practice, the members of the Vocal Class have been promised an excursion this week, which will no doubt prove a grand affair. Those of the party who are artists will have a rare opportunity of enriching their portfolios with sketches of Gothic architecture and ancient rivers. Some one of the party should certainly send in next week a graphic account of the excursion.
—On the 16th inst. the young ladies of the Graduating Class had a spirited competition in History. The right was led by Miss M. Julius, the left by Miss A. Walsh. The contest waged for three hours, and ended in a drawn battle; for neither side failed, either in the promptitude, clearnees, or correctness of the answers. The History of France, England, Spain, Germany, and America seemed perfectly familiar to the competitors. The Rev. President of Notre Dame College, Rev. Fathers Shortis and Zahm, C. S. C., with several visitors, honored the occasion by their presence, and though the competition lasted so many hours, all present seemed much gratified at witnessingthe proficiency displayed in this most important and interesting study.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses L. Ritchie, A. Walsh, A. O’Connor, M. Julius, M. Cravens, M. Faxon, M. Brady, J. Bennett, J. Nunning, L. Beall, A. Byrne, M. Walsh, H. Julius, P. Gaynor, E. O’Neil, M. O’Connor, B. Spencer, J. Cooney, A. Henneherry, A. Reising, H. Russell, C. Boyce, H. Hawkins, M. and E. Thompson, E. O’Connor, E. Rodinberger, S. Moran, M. O’Mahoney, M. Carroll, B. Wilson, L. Weber, G. Kelly, C. Silverthorne, A. Woodin, E. Pleins, D. Cavenor, E. Kirchner, K. Kelly, M. Dunn, H. Millis, J. Burgert, M. Smalley, S. Cash, M. Halligan. K. Martin, K. Gibbons, C. Ort-meyer, M. Plattenburg, M. Usselman, I. Cook, S. Rheinboldt, 100 par excdlence. Misses L. Johnson, L. Kelly, C. Morgan, E. Lange, N. McGrath, L. Tighe, A. Cullen, A. Koch, M. Pomeroy, G. Conklin, L. Brownbridge, L. Weier
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses D. Gordon, C. Corrili, E. Parsons, M. Lambin, L. Cox, E. Mulligan, E. Hackett, M. Cox, L. Vannamee, A. Williams, A. Getty, J. Butts, E. Wooten, 100 par excellence. Misses M. Ewing, A. Morgan, A. Ewing, M. Mulligan, L. Chilton, A. McGrath, M. Redfield, M. McFadden, J. Kingsbury, M. Davis, F. Fitz.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
2d Class—Miss E. Lange.
3d Class—Miss M. Smalley.
4th Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, M. Spier, A. Williams and A. Getty.
5th Class—Misses K. Gibbons and J. Butts. PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
3d Class—Misses M. Smalley, A. Cullen, L. Kirchner, M. and E. Thompson and S. Moran.
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses L Ritchie, C. Morgan and P. Gaynor.
3d Class—Misses E. Lange, A. Koch, S. Moran, M. O’Connor, D. Cavenor and M. Schultheis.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses M. Faxon, -A. O’Connor, M. Julius, L. Weber, L. Kelly, H. Julius, L. Kirchner, M. Schultheis.
2d Class—Misses M. Usselman, D. Gordon, L. Johnson, A. Koch, M. Spier, S. Hennebery, C. Boyce, A. Reising, C. Ort-meyer, S. Rheinboldt.
LATIN.
Misses Cravens, Rodinberger, Cooney, Carroll, Russell and Hawkins.
PRENCH CLASSES.
1st Class—Misses L. Beall, N. McGrath, M. and E. Thompson> P. Gaynor, B. Wilson, A. Harris.
2d Class—Misses H. Russell, C. Silverthorne, J. Burgert, L. Rodinberger, A. McGrath, M. O’Connor, J. Bennett, A. Walsh.
3d Class—Misses M. Brady, A. Byrnes, M. Walsh, H. Millis. 4th Class—Misses S. Moran, A. Ewing, M. Ewing, E. and M. Mulligan, A. Getty, A. Williams, J. Butts.
PANCY-WOHK.
Misses S. Cash, H. Hawkins, C. Correll, M. Schultheis, A. Koch, M. Halligan, L. Kirchner, L. Tighe, M, Dunn, B. Wilson, I. Cook, C. Ortmeyer, K. Gibbons.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
-A. CATHOLIC JOUBNAJj
(16 pp. Imperial 8vo.)
Published. Every Saturday at Notre Same, Ind.
APPEOVED BY HIS HOLINESS PIUS H., AUD MY EHKST PRELATES
Among the many contributors to the Ave Marta may be mentioned
Aubrey de Vere,	Grace Ramsay,
Henri Lasserrb,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author of “ Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tybobne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
„	„	TEBMS:
One Year..........................................$	2 50
Five Years........................................10	00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of $2 each)...20	00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Offiee- Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
REV. EDITOR OF THE “AVE MARIA,” Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company, 115 & 121 Nassau St., New York.
St,
(One Mile West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED BY THE SISTERS OF HOLY CROSS.
This Institution, situated on the beautiful and picturesque bank, of the St. Joseph River, is everything that could be desired as a locality for a female academy. All ’he branches of a solid and complete education are taught here. Mtsic, both vocal and instrumental, and the modern languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction.
Particular attention is paid to the religious instruction of Catholic pupils. Pupils of all denominations are received, and for the sake of order required to attend the public religious exercises with the members of the Institution.
The buildings are spacious and commodious, suited to the educational requirem- nts of the day, and furnished with all modern improvements Every portion ot the building is heated by steam, and-;hot and cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartments.
The grounds are very extensive, beau’ifnlly adorned, and situated in that charming seclusion which is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power.
The proximity of the two institutions to each other is a great convenience to parents having children at both, when they visit their sons and daughters.
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the Twentieth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy or the year 1874-75, oraddress
St. Mary's Academy,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
JAMES BONNEY THE PHOTOGRAPHER, Corner Michigan and Washington Sts., SOYTTU: EELSTD, USTUX-AZST-A..
606
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attorneys at Law.
SPEER «fc MITCHELL IN. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa. -
TUCIUS Gt. TONG, [of’65] Attorney and Counsellor J at Law, snd Real Estate Agent, Room No 2 Arnold’s Block, South Bend, Ind.
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of '621 Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FANNING & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’741, Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, 111.
JOHN E. NTcTTUr&IX [of ’72], Attorney at Law. Office, 65 and 67 Columbia St, Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE «fc DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney a’ Law, No‘arv Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE «Jt MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68). Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the IT. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.	'
\\r JLLIA M J. CL A BK.E (of ’74) Attorney at Law, VV Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S High St., Columbus. O.
JAMES A.. O’REX J	W—of ’69 —Attorney at Law,
527 Court Street, Reading, Pa Collections promptly attended to.
JO TUN D. McCORMICK-of ’73-Attomey at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, May. 13,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05. .
IO 37 am, Mail.over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25pm;
Cleveland 10 10pm; Buffalo 4 am.
12 30 p m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 4” p m; Cleveland 10 10 p m; Buffalo 4 00 a m.
9 12pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2 40am: Cleveland, 7 < 5 a m; Buffalo, 1 05pm.
4= 38 and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
2 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am.
5 05 am, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 20 a m.
4 38 pm. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 30; Chicago. 8 pm.
8 02 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 a m; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
8 4 and 9 25 am, Way Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div , Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
TOWLE & ROPER, WHOLESALE DEALERS IN CIGARS i TOBACCO, 41 & 43 Wabash Avenue, CHICAGO, •	•	• ILZCTITOTS.
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
ONI. PROCTOR fof ’75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
KTTITJK J. STACE [of ’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
"Weekly Newspapers.
THE C ATHOLIC COEUNTBTVTN. pub'ished weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited.	D. A. Clarke, of ’70.
TJtLiD A. V E MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price. $2.5”.	‘ '
THE YOFNG FOLKS’ FRIEND, published monthly at Loogootee, Ind. 50 cts. per year. Subscriptions solicited from the friends and students of Notre Dame.
Arthur C. O’Brian, of ’76.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, Published weekly during term time at Notre Dame, Ind. Terms, $1.50 per Annum.
THE SOUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74' $1.50 per annum.
Hotels.
Organ for Sale.
A PIPE ORGAN, nearly new, made by the same firm as the large Organ now in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame, is now offered for sale. The case is of a neat design, with front speaking-pipes, ornamented in gold and colors. Dimensions, 6 feet wide, 3 feet deep, 9 feet high. Manual, compass 0. 0. to a3, 58 notes. Pedale, C. 0. to d, 27 notes, 10 Stops, 232 Pipes, with a Swell Pedal and Blow PedaL All inclosed in an effective swell, except the Pedale.
Manufacturers’ price, $700; will be sold for $500, For further particulars address
Very Bev. A. GBANGEE, C.S.C.,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Sets ’Em Up.
HENRY BLUM on hand with a full stock of Imported and Domestic CIGrARS and TOBACCOS at the
“STUDENTS’ OFFICE,”
34 Washington Street, SOUTH BEND, IND.
CIRCLE HORSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rnodiua, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
r ■ UtUbl BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich-_L igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THEMATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Hl. AH Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
The Scholastic Almanac .
Contains, besides the ordinary calendars, selections in prose and verse, both serious and humorous, from the pages of the Notre Dame Scholastic. It is printed on tinted paper and in the best style of typographical art.
Every student should procure a copy.
Every one acquainted at Notre Dame should take a copy
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
607
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA. AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
This is the ONLY LINE running these cars between Chicago and St. Paul and Minneapolis, Chicago and Milwaukee, Chicago and Winona, or Chicago and Green Bay.
Close connections are made at Chicago with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, Baltimore & Ohio, Pittsburgh, Ft. Wayne & Chicago, Kankakee Line and Pan Handle Routes, for all points EAST and SOUTH-EAST, and with the Chicago and Alton and Illinois Central for all points SOUTH.
Close connections are also made with the Union Pacific R. R. at Omaha for all far West points.
Close connections made at junction points with trains of dd cross points.
Tickets overthis route are sold by all Coupon Ticket Agents in the UnitedStates and Canadas.
Bemember, you ask for your Tickets via the Chicago & NorthWestern Railway, and take none other.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House ; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to	‘
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KAi^SAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depr', West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City . nd Denver Express via Jacksonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo........4	00	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Lou’s Ex. via Main Line.8 05 pm 9 30 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line.............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express......................4	00	pm	9	30	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express....8 05 pm 9 30 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 4 00 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation....................9	20	am	4	30	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two story Dame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage-shed, coal-house, young trees.grapes, shrubbery, ere., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
-A-^ria
IE WELBY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
DEC. 10, 1876.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOT1NO WEST.
	No. 1, Fast Ex.	No 7, Pac. Ex.	! No .3, [Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,	Leave	11.30 p.m.	9 00 A.M.	2.00 p.m.	6.00 A.M.
Rochester,		12.40 a.m.	10.15 “	3.14 “	7.45 “
Alliance,		305 “	1250 P.M.	555 “	11.00 “
Orrville,		447 “	232 “	7.42 “	12.55 p.m.
Mansfield,		6.50 “	440 “	9.55 “	3.11 “
Crestline,.	Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	1030 “	3.50 “
Crestline,	Leave	7.50 a.m.	5 40 p.m.	10.35 p.m.	
Forest,.					925 “	7.40 “	11.53 “	
Lima		10.45 “	9.35 “	1.05 A.M.	
Ft. Wayne,		1.20 p.m.	12.10 a.m.	3.25 “	
Plymouth,		345 “	3 20 “	5.49. “	
Chicago,			Arrive	7.20 “	7.20 “	9.20 “	
GOING EAST.				
	No. 4.	No. 2,	No. 6,	No 8,
	Night Ex.	Fast Ex.	Pac. Ex.	Mail.
Chicago - - -			10.40 p.m.	8.20 a.m.	5.35 p.m.	
Plymouth,		2.40 A.M.	11.25 “	9.00 “	
Ft Wayne,		6 55 “	2.10 P.M.	11.45 “	
T.ima,	.-	8 55 “	4.05 “	1.39 A.M.	
Forest,		10.10 “	520 “	250 “	
Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.20 “	•♦••••
Crestline,	Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.30 a.m.	6 05 a.m
Mansfield,			12.35 “	7.44 “	5.00 “	6.50 “
Orrville,....					2.32 “	9.38 “	6.58 “	9.15 “
Alliance,		4.10 “	11.15 “	8.55 “	11.20 “
Rochester,		6.22 “	1.20 A.M.	11.06 “	2.00 pac.
Pittsburgh,	Arrive	7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 pai.	3.30 “
Train No. 6 runs Daily. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily ex cept Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without . change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
IE B. MYEHS, G. E & I. A.
608
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
JANSEN, McCLURG & co.,
. Importers and Dealers in Fine
Books and Stationery,
117 AND 119 STATE STEEET,
CHICAGO, ILTjIJSTOIS.
HJk-TZRTCTC SHICKEY,
PROPRIETOR OP THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE !
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maty’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
t*. S HICKEY.
Michigan Central Railway 	a Time Table-May 13, 1877.						
	♦Mail.	♦Day Express.		•Kal. Accom.	+Atlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles “ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson. . Ar. Detroit .. ..	5 00 a.m 7 33 “ 9 01 “ 10 50 “ 2 15 p.m 5 45 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 “ 1 38 p.m 4 05 “ (. 20 “		3 45 p.m 6 25 “ 8 20 “ 10 10 “ 5 20 a.m 8 40 “	5 15 p.m 7 35 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a m 3 35 “	9 00 pm 11 15 “ 12 35 am 2 17 “ 4 55 “ 8 00 a m
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago....	7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 16 p.m 3 11 “ 4 40 “ 6 55 “	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 40 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		4 45 p.m 8 00 “ 5-00 a.m 6 50 “ 8 02 “ 10 15 “	6 05 p.m 9 30 “ 12 16 a.m 2 35 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	9 50 p.m 12 45 a.m 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “
INI les and South Bend Division.						
♦GOING NORTH. Lv.'So. Bend—815 a.m. 630 pm. “ N. Dame— 8 22 •	6 35 •• Ar. Niles— 855 “	715“			♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles—	6 5G a.m. 4 15 p.m. “ N. Dame— 7 25 “	448 “ Ar. So. Bend—7 30 “	4 55 “			
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted. Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyabd, G. P. & T. A., Chicago, HI.	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago, Hl. G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.						
						
		i X Hi FOy AgGDt FOR				
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
The Naturalists’ Agencv has bten established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the pnrpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.	,
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any Amer ican for “Collections of Minerals.”
My Minera’ogical Catalogue of 50 pages, is distributed free to all customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about §900, before a copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the species and the more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The spec’es number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, hardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.
The large increase of my business has compelled me to rent the store No. 3727, and use it entirely for Birds, Mammals, Shells, Plants, Books. Fossils, Mound Builders’ Relics and other objects of Natural History. I have secured the services of one of the best taxidermists in the country, and can do the best custom work.
Over 38 ions, and nearly §35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. $19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over §1.500 and cash receipts over §1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known 'Element. The collections aie labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the §5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Illustrated Catalogue and table of species.
DOMESTIC AND
Fine Havana Cigars.
101 MAIN ST.. SOUTH BEND, IND.
Branch of SHIRE'S, 184 E. Madison Street, Chicago.
s 30-1
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedj' for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate con stitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST., OMOsite Sherman House, Chicago, Illinois.
n
4
Numbbb of Specimens
25 inbox
50 inbox
100 in box
100
Crystals and fragments.
Students’ size, larger...
$ 50 1 50
§1
3
§1 50 | § 1
6 I 5
.... I 10
Amateur's size,2*4 in. x 1*4-- -- --- ______ -
High Schoo) or Aca’d. size,2^x3 J4 in.shelf specimens | • 25
College size, 3J4x6 in., shelf specimens . ..| 500 [
200	300
$ 2	$ 3
10	25
25	50
50	100
too	300
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
'	Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express.. 10 00 a.m.	3 45 p.m.
Peru accommodation............... 5 00 p.m. 9 35 a.m.
Night Express....................10 00 p.m. 6 50 a.m.
A M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences and of the American Museum of Natural
History, Central Park, New York.
M. Livingston & Co.,
THE
Leading Merchant Tailors in South Send.
94 MICHIGAN St, SOUTH BEND, IND.