Bwntexl to to® interests nf to® Sto£®nte»
“L^YBOR OMNIA VIN’CIT.”
Volume V.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 8, 1872.
Numbee 22..
Philip Freneau. '
In the early history of the United States we meet with the names of but few poets, and these were not even of a fourth-rate order. There were many things which caused the men of those days to neglect altogether or, at least, to pay but slight court to the muses. Chiefly among these causes was the fact that in those times men were acting one of the grandest of epic poems. Their minds were too busily engaged in the stirring events which were then taking place. They were too much absorbed in the active duties of life to dally with the muses. There were lands to be cleared; the resources of the country to be developed; a commerce to be established; a nation to be founded. When matters like these filled men’s minds, can we wonder that Apollo should seek other climes and leave these men to politics, to jurisdiction and to statistics ?
Then again, all colonists look to their mothercountry for their literature. The ancient Greek colonies took with them the poems of Homer and Hesiod. None of the Roman colonies created, for a long time at least, a literature of their own. It was not until some eighty years after Christ that Spain produced a Latin author of any note. What writers did Great Britain present to the world during the entire time in which the Romans occupied the island? All of the Roman colonies depended upon Rome for their literature. Then again, when the nations from the North occupied the territory of the Romans, they brought with them their wild legends, and these served them for their fireside tales.
The same has been the case with all modem colonies. The Spanish, French, and Portuguese colonies were not, and are not to this day, prolific in writers of note. The East Indies have not as yet built up a distinctive literature. Nor has Australia. The same was the case with the American Colonies until they separated themselves from all connection, politically, with the mother country.
It was usual, half a century ago, in England, to sneer at all literary pretensions put forth by the United States, and the Edinburgh. Review asked in derision, “Who reads an American book?” We can see, now, how unjust any such treatment was. It was but natural that the colonies should cherish the rich legacy of literature' left them by their ancestors in England, that they should claim Milton and Shakespeare and Spencer as belonging partly to them. It was but natural that they should mould and fashion their thoughts after the models left them. The moral feelings, domestic tastes and habits of life of Americans were the same as those of the mother country—at least in all the essential points. Naturally enough then, they retained the style of expression which they received from their forefathers. These then, are the reasons why no strikingly original composition was ever given to the world by the Americans some eighty years ago.
The literature of a country is. built up by degrees. Before Homer, there lived rude writers of songs. Before Virgil, came Ennius—before Ennius, the minstrels. What were the poets who preceded Chaucer? In a like manner our earlier
poets were the mere forerunners of the great poets who were, and are yet to come after them.
Before the Revolutionary War there was written by Americans very little verse worth preserving; but with the dawn of independence a new era began to dawn also in the history of our literature. Among the first of the poets of the time of the Revolution was Philip Freneau.
Freneau was born in the city of New York, on the 13th day of January, 1752. He was of French descent, his ancestors having removed to America on the revocation of the edict of Nantes. In his fifteenth year he entered the College of New Jersey. Here he made the acquaintance and became the warm friend of James Madison, the future President of the United States, and of Hugh H. Brackenridge, who became well known in later years as the author of “ Modem Chivalry.” These three friends were highly gifted with satirical powers, and they took occasion to use them not only against those students who were leaders of rival parties, but also against all prominent public men who were opposed to the rising enthusiasm of the people for liberty.
In the year 1768 he wrote the “ Poetical History of the Prophet Jonah,” and a tale, “The Village Merchant.” He graduated in 1771. With Brackenridge he wrote his valedictory exercise, “The Rising Glory of America.” This poem was a dialogue in blank verse, and contains many animated and vigorous descriptions.
Freneau’s first intention was to devote himself to the Law, but for some reason he abandoned this design. After leading a desultory life for some three yearn he went to sea. In 1775 he turned up at New York, where he began the publication of political burlesques and satires, for which at a late day he became quite popular. The speeches of the king and his ministers were travestied in an amusing manner; every event of any importance which happened was taken up by him and celebrated in easy flowing verse, none the less welcome to the American Whigs in that there was a strong tinge of coarseness. In 1776 he was in the West Indies, where he wrote his two poems, “The House of Night” and “The Beauties of Santa Cruz.” Three years afterwards he was in Philadelphia editing a literary journal. This periodical was not successful, and he again betook himself to the sea. He sailed in May, 1780, in the ship Aurora, which was captured by an English cruiser off the Delaware. Freneau was sent to the prison ship, where he suffered much from ill-treatment. After some time he was released, and he returned to Philadelphia where he wrote a poem in four cantos, entitled “The British Prison Ship,” in which he described with great energy and force the brutality of his captors. In 1781 he edited the Freeman's Journal, published in Philadelphia by Francis Bailey. In this journal he published his “Philosopher of Forest”
Tn 1784, Freneau translated Abbe Robin’s Nouveau Voyage duns VAmerigue Septentrionale en Cennee 1781. During the following years he wrote much both in prose and verse. The first edition of his poems was published by Bailey, in 1786, under the title of “ The Poems of Philip Freneau;
Written chiefly during the late War.” His second volume was published in 1778—“The Miscellaneous Works of Mr. Philip Freneau; Contain-: ing his Essays and Additional Poems.” In this * second volume are a number of Freneaus best pieces.
Freneau was for some time connected with the New York Adcertiser: and afterwards, when he became translating clerk in the State Department, under Mr. Jefferson, he became the editor of the National Gazette at Philadelphia. The articles abusive of Washington which appeared in the Gazette, gave the paper an infamous reputation, and though Freneau stated under oath that Jefferson did not compose or suggest any of the articles, yet the author of the Declaration of Independence certainly approved of them. Freneau in his old age acknowledged that a number of them were written by Jefferson.
In 1793, the publication of the National Gazette was suspended. In 1795 he edited the Jersey' Chronicle, published at Middletown Point. The periodical was not a success, and died in one year, on account of its opposition to Washington. In 1797 he became connected, for about six months, with The Time-Piece, published at New York. In 1798, Freneau went to South Carolina. The following year he visited the island of St. Thomas; he-repeated his visit in 1801. In 1804 he was at Tene-riffe, and in 1806 we find him back at New York, which city he leaves the same year in command of the ship Industry, for the West Indies.
Freneau had in the year 1795 issued a volume of poems. Another volume he published in 1809, when he had given up his seafaring life. When ‘ the war of 1812 broke out he again appeared as a poet, and sung the victories of the navy. His poems are still popular among our seamen. These poems were collected and published in a volume, in 1815, entitled, “A Collection of Poems on American Affairs.”
In his old age Freneau resided in New Jersey, but made occasional visits to Philadelphia. He perished in a snow-storm, in the eightieth year of his age, during the night of the 18th of December, 1832, near Freehold. Memoirs of Freneau may be found in Griswold’s “ Poets and Poetry of America,” and in Duyckinck’s “ Cyclopaxlia of American Literature,” to which memoirs we are indebted for most of the facts mentioned in this short paper.
Freneau was a man of much genius. He possessed great power in influencing the public mind of the day by his poetry. Had he chosen more suitable subjects, more of his poetry would be read at the present day than is now the case. Most that he did write was written for his own times, and with his own times has died. That more would have survived, is evident from the fact that whatever he wrote not directly touching the events of his day are still to be met with in our readers and selections from the poets. “ The Dying Indian ” is still read and admired as it deserves to be. “ The Indian Burying Ground ” is a beautiful little poem, from which Campbell did not hesitate to steal a line. Freneau says:	■
“ By midnight moons, o’er moistening dews, .
In habit for the chase arrayed,
2	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
None, none but shadows to those mansions go;
I leave my woods, I leave the Huron shore .
For emptier groves below I
Ye charming solitudes,
Ye tall ascending woods,
Ye glassy lakes and prattling streams, Whose aspect still was sweet, Whether the sun did greet,
Or the pale moon embraced you with her beams— Adieu to all!
To all that charm’d me where I stray’d,
The winding stream, the dark sequester’d shade:
Adieu all triumphs here 1
Adieu, the mountain’s lofty swell, Adieu, thou little verdant hill, And seas, and stars, and skies,—farewell, For some remoter sphere 1
“ ’Perplex’d with doubts, and tortured with despair, Why so dejected at this hopeless sleep ?
Nature at last these ruins may repair,
When fate’s long dream is o’er, and she forgets to weep, Some real world once more may be assign’d, Some new-born mansion for the immortal mind! Farewell, sweet lake! farewell, surrounding woods I To other groves, through midnight glooms, I stray, Beyond the mountains, and beyond the floods, Beyond the Huron Bay!
Prepare the hollow tomb, and place me low, My trusty bow and arrows by my side, The cheerful bottle and the venison store; For long the journey is that I must go, Without a partner, and without a guide.’ He spoke, and bid the attending mourners weep; Then closed his eyes, and sank to endless sleep !”
We are afraid we are taking up too much space in the Scholastic, but we cannot refrain from quoting his lines
TO THE MEMORY OF THE AMERICANS WHO FELL AT EUTAW.
“ At Eutaw Springs the valiant died;
Their limbs with dust are cover’d o’er; Weep on, ye springs, your tearful tide—
How many heroes are no more !
If, in this wreck of rnin, they Can yet be thought to claim the tear, Oh, smite your gentle breast and say, The friends of freedom slumber here!
“ Thon who shall trace this bloody plain, If goodness rules thy generous breast, Sigh for the wasted rural reign;
Sigh for the shepherds sunk to rest 1 Stranger, their humble graves adorn;
You too may fall, and ask a tear;
’Tis not the beauty of the morn That proves the evening may be clear.
“ They saw their injured country’s woe— The flaming town, the wasted field, They rushed to meet the insulting foe;
They took the spear, but left the shield. Led by the conquering genius, Greene, The Britons they compell’d to fly:
None distant viewed the fatal plain ; None grieved, in such a cause, to die.
“ But like the Parthians, famed of old, Who, flying, still their arrows threw;
These routed Britons, full as hold, Retreated, and retreating slew.
Now rest in peace, our patriot band; Though far from Nature’s limit thrown, We trust they find a happier land, A brighter sunshine of their own.”
The hunter still the deer pursues,— ’ The hunter and the deer, a shade 1” In Campbell’s “ O’Conor’s Child ” we have—,
•* Now o’er the hill in chase he flits—	'
The hunter and the deer—a shade."
Neither did Sir Walter Scott disdain to borrow from our poet a beautiful idea, Freneau writes in his lines “To the Memory of the Americans who fell at Eutaw Springs ”:
“ Then rush’d to meet the insulting foe;
They took the spear, but left the shield.” Scott, in his introduction to the third canto of “ Mannion,” says:
“ When Prussia hurried to the field, And snatched the spear, but left the shield." Freneau had great satirical powers, and he used them without stint. He scrupled at nothing in using them against his opponent. His were no keen polished thrusts, but were heavy blows. His weapons were not those always polished and sharpened, but were those that were often blunted and coarse, and made the wounds they gave rankle and fester. His invective was coarse and insulting, but he used it with great effect. He lived in war times, and his writings are mostly tinged with a warlike spirit. He battles against all those who oppose him in the least of his principles. His wit and his verse are to him what the sword and shield are to the soldier. He seldom draws them unless to attack or to defend. Occasionally he uses them for sport, but he generally unsheathes his sword for an earnest fight.
Freneau handles his versification with great skill. The triple rhyme in octosyllabic measure he uses with uncommon skill. But what is remarkable in him is, that at a time when all poets followed without any protest in the beaten walk trod by Dryden and Pope, Freneau followed a path wholly new. He is no imitator. The incidents which he commemorates in verse are often the facts and realities which he met with in everyday life. Over these he threw the glow and romance of poetry. If the poems of Freneau are little read to-day, it is not because they are not meritorious.
The following is his poem entitled
THE DYING INDIAN.*
“ ‘ On yonder lake I spread the sail no more 1 Vigor, and youth, and active days are past; Relentless demons urge me to that shore On whose black forests all the dead are cast;
Ye solemn train, prepare the funeral song, For I must go to shades below, Where all is strange, and all is new;
Companion to the airy throng 1
What solitary streams,
In dull and dreary dreams, AU melancholy, must I rove along! To what strange lands must Chequi take his way 1 Groves of the dead departed mortals trace ; No deer along those gloomy forests stray, No huntsmen there take pleasure in the chase, But all are empty, unsubstantial shades, That ramble through those visionary glades;
No spongy fruits from verdant trees depend, But sickly orchards there Do fruits as sickly bear,
And apples a consumptive visage show. And wither’d hangs the whortleberry blue.
“‘Ah me! what mischiefs on the dead attend I Wandering a stranger to the shores belo w. Where shall I brook or real fountain find 1 Lazy and sad deluding waters flow: Such is the picture in my boding mind I
Fine tales, indeed, they tell . Of shades and purling rills,
Where our dead fathers dwell Beyond the western hills;
But when did ghost return his state to show, Or who can promise half the tale is true ?
“ * I, too, must be a fleeting ghost I no more;
* Tomo-Chequi.
A Cairo Bulletin Story for Little Folks.-A lad nearly ten years of age “ cried his eyes out” recently at the trick of a passenger train locomotive. The lad had a nice, bright, silver ten cent piece, and was of the opinion that the weight of the locomotive would spread it out to the dimensions of a quarter. He laid it on the track and awaited the result. The locomotive came thundering along, picked up the dime on one of its wheels, and flung it nobody knows whither. The boy bellowed most heartily, and is firmly convinced that the Illinois Central is by odds the meanest of railroads of which he has any knowledge. -
ERIC; or, Little by Little.
A Tale of Boslyn School.
BY FREDERIC W. FARRAR, Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge.
FA.RT SECOND.
CHAPTER V.
RIPPLES.
Our echoes roll from soul to soul,
And live for ever and for ever.—Tennyson.
Owen and Montagu were walking by Silverbum, and talking over the affairs of the school. During their walk they saw Wright and Vernon Williams in front of them.
“ I am so glad to see those two together,” said Montagu; “I really think Wright is one of the best little fellows in the school, and he’ll be the saving of Vernon. He’s already persuaded him to leave off smoking and other bad things, and has got him to work a little harder, and turn over a new leaf altogether.”
“Yes,” answered Owen; “ Pye seen a marvellous improvement in little Williams lately. I think that Duncan gave him a rough lesson the other night which did him good, and dear old Rose too has been leading him by the hand; but the best thing is that, through Wright, he sees less of Eric’s friend, that young scapegrace, Wildney.”
“Yes; that little wretch has a good deal to answer for. What a pity that Eric spoils him so, or rather suffers himself to be spoilt by him. I’m glad Vernon’s escaped his influence now: he’s too fine a nature to be made as bad as the general run of them. What a brilliant little fellow he is; just like his brother.”
“Justlike what his brother was? said Owen;
“ his face, like his mind, has suffered lately.”
“Too true,” answered Montagu, with a sigh; “ and, cool as we now are in our outward intercourse, he little knows how I love him, and yearn for the Eric I once knew—Eric the fair-haired, as Russell and I used sometimes to call him in fun. Would to God poor Russell had lived, and then I believe that he wouldn’t have gone so far wrong.”
“Well, I think there’s another chance for him now that—that—what name is bad enough for thatBrigson?—is gone.”	‘	•
“I hope so. But”—he added after a pause— “ his works do follow him. Look there!” He took a large stone and threw’it into the Silverbum stream; there was a great splash, and then everwidening circles of blue ripple broke the surface of the water, dying away one by one in the sedges on the bank. “ There,” he said, “ see how long those ripples last, and how numerous they are.”
Owen understood him. “Poor Eric! What a gleam of new hope there was In him after Russell’s death!”
“ Yes, for a time,” said Montagu; “ heigh ho! I fear we shall never be warm friends again. We can’t be while he goes on as he is doing. And yet I love him.”
A sudden turn of the stream brought them to the place called Riverside.
“If you want a practical comment on what we’ve been talking about, you’ll see it there, ” said Montagu.
He pointed to a party of boys, four or five, all lying on a pleasant grass bank, smoking pipes. Prominent among them was Eric, stretched at ease, and looking up at the clouds, towards which curled the puffed fumes of his meerschaum—a gift of Wildney’s. That worthy was beside him similarly employed.	’
• The two sixth-form boys hoped to pass by unobserved, as they did not wish for a rencontre with dur hero under such circumstances. But they saw Wildney pointing to them, and, from the fits oif
NOTRE DAME .SCHOLASTIC
.3


laughter which followed his remarks, they had little doubt that they were the subject of the young gentleman’s wit. This is never a pleasant sensation ; but they observed that Eric made a point of not looking their way, and went on in silence.
“ How very sad!” said Montagu.
' “ How very contemptible!” said Owen. “ Har-fagher among his subjects!”
“ Did yon observe what they were doing ?”
“ Smoking?”
“ Worse than that a good deal. They were doing something which, if Eric doesn’t take care, will one day be his ruin.” ’
“What?”
“ I saw them drinking. I have little doubt it was brandy.”	'
“ Good heavens!”
“ It is getting a common practice with some fellows. One of the ripples, you see, of Brigson’s influence.”
Before they got home they caught up Wright and Vernon, and walked in together.
“ We’ve been talking,” said Wright, “ about a bad matter. Vernon here says that there’s no good working for a prize in his form, because the cribbing’s atrocious. Indeed, it’s very nearly as bad in my form. It alws^’s is under Gordon; he can't understand fellows doing dishonorable things.”
“It’s a great bore in the weekly examinations,” said Vernon; “ every now and then Gordon will even leave the room for a few minutes, and then out come dozens of books.”
“Well, Wright,” said Montagu, “if that happens again next examination, I’d speak out about it.”
“How?”
“ Why, I’d get every fellow who disapproves of It to give me his name, and get up and read the list, and say that you at least have pledged yourselves not to do it”
■ “Humph! I don’t know how that would answer. They’d half kill me for one thing.”
“Nevermind; do your duty. I wish Pd such an opportunity, if only to show how sorry I am for my own past unfairness.”
And so talking, the four went in, and the two elder went to their study.
It was too true that drinking had become a common vice at Roslyn School. Accordingly, when Eric came in with Wildney about half an hour after, Owen and Montagu heard them talk about ordering some brandy, and then arrange to have a “jollification,” as they called it, that evening.
They got the brandy through “Billy.” One of Brig-son’s most cursed legacies to the school was the introduction of this man to a nefarious intercourse with the boys. His character was so well known that it had long been forbidden, under the strictest penalty, for any boy ever to speak to him; yet, strange to say, they seemed to take a pleasure in doing so, and just now particularly, it was thought a fine thing, a sign of “ pluck,” “ anti-muffishness,” to be on familiar and intimate terms with that degraded and villainous scoundrel.
Duncan had made friends again with Eric; but he did not join him in his escapades and excesses, and sat much in other studies. He had not been altogether a good boy, but yet there was a sort of rough honesty and good sense in him which preserved him c<wm the worst and most dangerous failings, and his character bad been gradually improving as he mounted higher in the school. He was getting steadier, more diligent, more thoughtful, more manly; he was passing through that change so frequent in boys as they grow older, to which Eric was so sad an exception. Accordingly, Duncan, though sincerely fond of Eric, had latterly disapproved vehemently of his proceedings, and had therefore taking to snubbing his old friend Wild-ney, in whose favor Eric seemed to have an infatuation, and who was the means of involving him
in every kind of impropriety and mischief So that night Duncan, hearing of what was intended, sat in the next study, and Eric, with Ball, Wildney, Graham, and Pietrie, had the room to themselves. Several of them were lower boys still, but they came up to the studies after bed-time, according to Wildney’s almost nightly custom.
A little pebble struck the study window.
“Hurrah!” said Wildney, clapping his hands;
“ here’s the grub.”
They opened the window and looked out. Billy was there, and they let down to him a long piece of cord, to which he attached a basket, and, after bidding them “ Good-night, and a merry drink,” retired. No sooner had they shut the window, than he grimaced as usual towards them, and shook his fist in a sort of demoniacal exultation, muttering, “ Oh, I’ll have you all under my thumb yet, you fine young fools!”
Meanwhile the unconscious boys had opened the basket, and spread its contents on the table. They were bread, butter, a large dish of sausages, a tart, beer, and, alas-! a bottle of brandy.
They soon got very noisy, and at last uproarious. The snatches of songs, peals of laughter, and rattle of plates, at last grew so loud that the other studyboys were afraid lest one of the masters should come up and catch the revellers. All of them heard every' word that was spoken by Eric and his party, as the walls between the rooms were very thin; and very objectionable much of the conversation was.	.
“ This won't do,” said Duncan emphatically after a louder burst of merriment than usual; “ those fellows are getting drunk; I can tell it to a certainty from the confused and random way in which some of them are talking.”	•'
“ We’d better go in and speak to them,” said Montagu; “ at any rate, they’ve no right to disturb us all night. Will you come?”
“ I’ll join you,” said Owen; “ though I’m afraid my presence won’t do you much good."
The three boys went to the door of Eric’s study and their knock could not at first be heard for the noise. When they went in they found a scene of reckless disorder; books were scattered about, plates and glasses lay broken on the floor, beer was spilt on all sides, and there was an intolerable smell of brandy.
“ If you fellows don’t take care,” said Duncan, sharply, “ Rose or somebody’ll be coming up and catching you. It’s ten now.”
“What’s that to you?” answered Graham, with an insolent look.
“ It’s something to me that you nice young men have been making such a row that none of the rest of us can hear our own voices, and that between you you’ve made this study in such a mess that I can’t endure it.”
“Pooh!” said Pietrie; “we’re all getting such saints, that one can’t have the least bit of spree now-a-days.”
“Spree!” burst in Montagu indignantly; fine spree to make sots of yourselves with spirits; fine spree to----”
“ Ameni" said Wildney, who was perched on the back of a chair; and he turned up his eyes and' clasped his hands with a mock-heroic air.
“ There, Williams,” continued Montagu pointing to the mischievous-looking little boy; see that spectacle, and he ashamed of yourself, if you can. That’s what you lead boys to! Are you anxious to become the teacher of drunkenness?”
In truth, there was good ground for his sorrowful apostrophe, for the scene was very painful to a high-minded witness.
They hardly understood the look on Eric’s countenance; he had been taking far more than was good for him; his eyes sparkled fiercely, and though as yet he said nothing, he seemed to be resenting the intrusion in furious silence.
“How much longer is this interesting lecture to
last?” asked Ball, with his usual insufferable tone; “ for I want to finish my brandy.”
Montagu rather looked as if he intended to give the speaker a box on the ear; but he was just deciding that he wasn’t worth the trouble, when Wildney, who had been grimacing all the time, burst into a fit of satirical laughter.
“Here, Wildney,” said Graham; “just hand me ‘The Whole Duty of Man,’ or something of that sort, from the shelf, will you? That’s a brick.”
"Certainly. Let’s see; Watts’ Hymns;—Z bag those for myself,” said Wildney; “they’ll just suit:
“‘How doth the little’” ....
“Let’s turn out these impudent lower-school fellows,” said Montagu, speaking to Duncan. “ Here I you go first,” he said, seizing Wildney by the arm, and giving him a swing, which, as he was by no means steady on his legs brought him sprawling to the ground, and sent Watts’ Hymns flying openleaved under the table.
“ By Jove, I won’t stand this any longer,” shouted Eric, springing up’ferociously. “ What on earth do you mean by daring to come in like this? Do you hear?”
Montagu took no sort of notice of the threatening gesture, for he was looking to see if Wildney was hurt, and finding he was not, proceeded to drag him out, struggling and kicking frantically. ’
“ Drop me, you fellow, drop me, I say. I won’t go for you," cried Wildney, clinging tight to a chair. “ Eric, why do you let him bully.me?”
“You let him go this minute,” repeated Eric; hoarsely.	,
“ I shall do no such thing. You don’t know what you’re about”
“ Don’t I ? Well then, take that, to show whether I do or no!” And suddenly leaning forward, he struck Montagu a violent back-handed blow on the mouth.
Everybody saw it, everybody heard it; and it instantly astounded them into silence. That Montagu should have been so struck in public, and that by Eric—by a boy who had loved him and whom he had loved—by a boy who had been his schoolfellow for three years now, and whose whole life seemed bound to him by so many associations, it was strange and sad indeed.
Montagu sprang straight upright: for an instant he took one stride towards his striker' with lifted hand and lightening eyes, while the blood started to his lips in consequence of the blow. But he stopped suddenly, and his hand fell to his side; by a strong effort of self-control he contrived to master himself, and sitting down quite quietly on a chair, he put his white handkerchief to his wounded mouth, and took it away stained with blood.
No one spoke; and rising with quiet dignity,lie went back into his study without a word.
“Very well,” said Duncan; “you may all do as you like; only I heartily hope now you will be caught Come, Owen.”
“Oh,’Williams,” said Owen, “ you are changed indeed, to treat your best friend so.”
Bnt Eric was excited with drink, and the slave of every evil passion at that moment “Served him right,” he said; “ what buisness has he to interfere with what I choose to do?”	‘
There was no more noise that night Wildney and the rest slunk off ashamed and frightened, and-Eric, leaving his candle flaring on the table, went-down to his bed-room, where he was very sick. He had neither strength nor spirit to undress, and-flung himslf into bed just as he was. When they heard that he was gone, Owen and Duncan (for Montagu was silent and melancholy) went into his study, put out the candle, and only just cleared away, to the best of their power, the traces of the carouse, when Dr. Rowlands came up stairs on his usual nightly rounds. They had been lighting brown paper to take away the fames of the brandy,'
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and the Doctor asked them casually the cause of the smell of burning. Neither of them answered, and seeing Owen there, in whom he placed implicit trust, the Doctor thought no more about it.
Eric awoke with a bad headache, and a sense of shame and sickness. When he got up he felt most wretched; aud while washing he thought to himself, “ Ah! that I could thus wash away the memory of last night!’’ Of course, after what had occurred, Eric and Montagu were no longer on speaking terms, and miserable as poor Eric felt when he saw how his blow had bruised and disfigured his friend’s face, he made no advances. He longed, indeed, from his inmost heart, to be reconciled to him; but feeling that he had done grievous wrong, he dreaded a repulse, and his pride would not suffer him to run the risk. So he pretended to feel no regret, and supported by his late boon companions represented the matter as occurring in the defence of Wildney, whom Montagu was bullying.
Montagu, too, was very miserable; but he felt that, although ready to forgive Eric, he could not, in common self-respect, take the first step to a reconciliation ; indeed, he rightly thought that it was not for Eric’s good that he should do so.
“You and Williams appear never to speak to each other now,” said Mr. Rose. “ I am sorry for . it Monty; I think you are the only boy who has any influence over him.”
“ I fear you are mistaken, sir, in that. Little Wildney has much more.”
“Wildney?” asked Mr. Rose, in sorrowful surprise. “ Wildney more influence than you ?”
“ Yes, sir.”
“Ah, that our poor Edwin bad lived!”
So, with a sigh, Walter Rose and Harry Montagu buried their friendship for Eric until happier days.
How A Quarrel was Kaie.
The way a thing is said, often has more to do with the effect of it than the matter or meaning. There are disagreeable people in the world, who always have an insolent grunt or rough reply ready for every ordinary remark made to them.
Two men in Kentucky, who had been the best of friends for thirty years—never had a cross word, and would do anything for each other—got into a wagon, and started to Lexington, on business. They lived about twelve miles from Lexington. One was named Brown, and the other Clure. About six miles from Lexington, they passed a . tract of land belonging to a man named Barbee. It had a brook running through a gully on it.
“Tom,” says Brown, coming to the gully, “if Barbee wanted to build a pond, all he would have to do would be to throw a wall across that gully.”
“Yes,” says Clure, “but Barbee don’t want a pond.”
“Well,” replied Brown, raising himself up, “I did not say that he wanted a pond, did I? I said if he wanted a pond, all he would have to do would be to throw a wall across that gully.”
“Well now,” said Clure, firing up in his turn, “I did not say that you did say he wanted a pond, did I? All I said, was that Barbee did not want any pond.”
“ Well,” shouted Brown in an angry tone, I did not say that you did, did I ? I said if—if he wanted a pond, all he would have to do would be to throw a wall across that gully.”
“ Well,” said Clure, now thoroughly enraged, “you are a fool, and I won’t ride with you any further. Stop the wagon.”
So Brown stopped the wagon, and Clure walked all the way to Lexington, six miles, rather than ride with him.
That was seven years ago, and the foolish men have not spoken to each other since.
This incident illustrates one-half of the misun-, derstandings and subsequent quarrels of our race.
OTRE SJP«AME SCHOLASTIC.
Published every WeeTc during Term Time, at
NOTSE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editors Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Ono year.
TERMS:
$2 00
Single copies (10c) of the publication can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
Rev. Father P. W. Condon, S.S.C., has been appointed Prefect of Discipline.
The concert is announced for next Saturday evening. We hope we will have no disappoint^ ment.
Tuesday last, 6th inst, Very Rev. Father Sorin was 58 years old. We hope that his 59th birthday will be celebrated in a worthy manner, and that no secret will be made of it.
Mr. Gustave Vande Velde has just written from Ghent that he will be at Notre Dame in the first part of March. Mr. Vande Velde has been engaged to teach in the Music Department and take the direction of the Choir. The Professor is a reputed violoncellist and excellent leader of choral societies, and graduate of the class of Prof. J. Regnier.
The number of classes for the second session is as follows:
Moral Philosophy, 1; Logie and Mental Philosophy, 1; English Literature, 1; Rhetoric, 2; Greek, 4; Ancient Literature, 1; Latin, 8; Chemistry, 1; Natural Philosophy, 1; Modem History, 1; Astronomy, 1; Surveying, 1; Natural Sciences, j 5, viz., Physiology, Zoology, Botany, Mineralogy and Geology; (Analytical Geometry and Calculus I are postponed to next session); Trigonometry, 1;! Geometry, 2; Algebra, 4; Book-keeping, 3; Commercial Law, 1; Grammar, 8; Arithmetic, 8; Orthography, 6; Reading, 4; Geography, 2; United States History, 1; Penmanship, 3; Christian Doctrine, 2; Instructions in Catechism, 2; ---------- French, 3; German, 7; Drawing, 3; Vocal Music, 2. The Department of Instrumental Music occupies 4 regular teachers.
Tables of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
January 26.—R. J. Curran, J. M. Rourke, T. Garrity, J. Ireland, E. W. Barry, E. Newton, C. M Karst, C. M. Proctor, D. Maloney, Jos. Karst.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
January 26.—JI. Foote, C. Hutchings, J. Spil-lard, W. Campbell, P. Cooney, F. McOskar, F. Phelan, G. Gross, J. Stubbs, A. Klein.
D. A. C., Sec.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
January 27.—A Jforton, A. McIntosh, C. Clark, H. Edge], D. Salazar, C. Walsh.
Honorable Mentions.
Piano—J. McHugh, G. Darr, W. Breen, F. Obert, J. Bowen, R. Staley, C. Hutchings, W. Ball.
Vocal Class—D. O’Connell, F. Smith, E. McMahon, S. McMahon, G. Riopelle, J. McGlynn.
A man who was told to remember Lot’s wife, replied that he had trouble enough with his own, without remembering other men’s wives.
Additional Entrances
Isaac Bennett,	Prairie Creek, Hlinois.
Martin Roach,	Notre Dame, Indiana. ’
E. Cavanagh,	Notre Dame, Indiana.
C. K. Parmelee,	Chicago, Hlinois.
William 8. Hitchcock,	Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Michael Frain,	Notre Dame, Indiana. ■
Franklin H. Lang,	Tiffin, Ohio.
Philip O’Mahony,	Lake Forest, Illinois.
George Madden,	Mendota, Hlinois.
Bernard Vogt,	Louisville, Kentucky.
Michael T. Shiel,	Shielsville, Indiana.
George A Duffy,	Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
William H. Canavan,	Susquehanna Depot, Pa.
Jloses Davidson,	Laporte, Indiana.
Carl Stonehill,	Laporte, Indiana.
Willie W. Dodge,	Burlington, Iowa.
John H. Gillespie,	Notre Dame, Indiana.
’Marcus J. Moriarty,	Norwich, Connecticut.^
George L. Gerew,	Chicago, Hlinois.
James Cunnea, AB.,	Morris, Hlinois.
William Allen,	Chicago, Hlinois.
William Fitzgerald,	St. Louis, Missouri.
Col. M. Johnson,	Harvard, Hlinois.
John M. Haynes,	Clinton, Iowa.
Louis Hilsendegen,	Detroit, Michigan.
Richard Costello,	Morris, Illinois.
V. Cottin,	Detroit, Michigan.
William M. Hughes,	Chicago, Hlinois.
Thomas A Bless,	Mishawaka, Indiana.
Thomas H. Finnegan,	Chicago, Illinois.
E. B. Gambee,	Adrian, Michigan.
Joseph Langenderfer,	Toledo, Ohio.
Edward Gribling,	Lafayette, Indiana.
Report on the
The Examination just ended has given proofs of the earnest application of the large majority of the Students during the first part of the year. We feel proud and glad in saying that the last five months , have been well spent, and that the Students as well as the Faculty have a right to congratulate themselves on the good work they have done. During the latter part of the preceding week the notes of the Examination were read to the Students, the promotions in the various branches duly made, and the organization of the classes for the new session completed. Now the College routine has again resumed its onward course, an energetic spirit seems to have been inspired in the hearts of all, and great expectations are anticipated for the close of the second session. The Faculty has been increased by the addition of several Professors and assistant Teachers. Rev. Father P. Condon, S.S.C., lately of New Brunswick, has been installed in the Prefectorship of - Discipline; wc« Rev. J. O’Connell, who retires at his own request, and has been appointed to teach some classes of the Scientific Course. The classes of Logic and Mental Philosophy, as well as that of Ancient Literature, all of which were commenced at the beginning of the second session, are in able hands. Several assistant Teachers for the languages have been obtained from the Novitiate. An able Music Professor is daily expected from Europe to complete the Music Faculty, while another Professor, also from Europe, has been written for to take the direction of the Painting Class.
During the second session Literary Entertainments of an interesting description will be given by our flourishing Societies. The Thespians will probably lead the van by their grand annual exhibition of the 22d inst., unless, perhaps, the Music Societies, which the severe weather of the last four weeks had severely tried, give their promised con-, cert at an earlier date, which, we think, will be the case. Prof. Griffith’s Course of Elocution is announced for the beginning of next week; it may be that the Professor will have begun before that'
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
time. Of course the Professor’s class will gratify the public by an exhibition, in which many of its members will join. Prom February till June the horizon appears pleasant and cloudless, the programme is cheering, the prospects for all desirable success quite hopeful, and with God’s blessing and the good will of all we have reason to expect that the work so well begun will end well.
The following is the general report of the Examination:
CLASSICS.
Moral Philosophy.—This class, taught by Rev. C. Calovin, deserves special mention tor its excellence. The note of the whole class was 100. Its members are M. Keeley, J. McHugh, T. Ireland, M. Mahony, M. Carr and J. Shannahan.
First Greek Class.—This class, having gone through the Greek Classics, will devote its time during the second session to the study of Ancient Greek Literature, under Rev. A. Louage. The average standing of this class was 97. Messrs. Keeley and Ireland were best noted.
Second Greek Class.—Not examined.
Third Greek Class.—This class will continue Memorabilia during the second session, under Prof. A. J. Stace, A. M. The average note of this class was 90. Messrs. T. O’Mahony and D. Hogan received the best notes.
Fourth Greek Class.—This class, taught by Prof. M. A. J. Baasen, A. M., will continue the Anabasis, and, subsequently,-will translate the Memorabilia. The average note was 80. Best notes awarded to D. Maloney, F. Chamberlain and T. Watson. Mr. D. Maloney was promoted to the Third Class.	'
Fifth Greek Class.—This class, taught by Rev; J. O’Rourke, will read Anabasis next session. Average note, G8. Messrs. C. Dodge, P. T. White and M. Foote were best noted.
A new Greek class, composed of seven members, has been formed and is taught by Mr. John Zahm.
First Latin.—This class, taught during the first session by Prof. J. A. Lyons, having finished the regular course of Latin classics, will study Ancient Literature and continue Latin Composition under Rev. A. Louage. Average note, 90. Best notes awarded to Messrs.'M. Keeley, M. Mahoney, T. Ireland and J. McHugh.
Second Latin.—This class, taught by Rev. J. O’Rourke, will study Livy and De Ofiiciis during the second session, and continue Latin Composition. Average note of class, 80. Messrs. M. Foote and D. Hogan deserved the best notes.
Third Latin.—This class will continue the Orations of Cicero and translate Horace’s Odes, under Prof. T. E. Howard, A. M. Average note 95. Best notes awarded Thos. O’Mahoney and P. T. White.	-
Fourth Latin.—This class will continue the JEneid, under Prof. J. A. Lyons, and apply to Latin Composition. Average note, 70. Messrs. W. S. Mitchell and L. Hayes had the best notes.
Fifth Latin.—This class is united to the Fourth, and is to be taught during the second session by Prof. J- A. Lyons. It will continue the jEneid and translate in Sallust. Average note, 80. Messrs-F. Chamberlain, Jas. Walsh, F. P. Lifflngwell, D. Maloney, Charles Dodge and W. J. Clarke deserved best notes.
Sixth Latin.—This class will translate the Eclogues and part of the Georgies during the second session, under Prof. A. J. Stace. It has been promoted to the rank of the Fifth Class. Average note of class, 75. Best notes awarded to Messrs. T. J. Murphy, J. E. Hogan, H. Walker and T. Watson.
Seventh Latin.—This class, which was promoted to the rank of the Sixth Class, will read Caesar during the second session, under Prof. J. A. Lyons. Average note, 75. Best notes deserved by W. P. Breen, W. J. Dum, J. Rourke, P. J. O’Connell, H,.
L.	Dehner, J. D. McCormick, J. Caren and A. J. Dickerhoff. .
Eighth Latin.—This cla§s, which has become the Seventh Class since the Examination, will begin translating Historia Sacra, and continue exercises in Arnold’s First Latin Book, under Prof W. Ivers, A. M. Average note, 68. Best notes deserved by Messrs. J. Stubbs, T. Hansard, F. Egan, T. Renshaw, J. McGinnis and E. Marshall.
A new Latin class, composed of ten members, has just commenced under Prof. W. Ivers.
English Literature.—This class will continue the course under Prof. T. E. Howard’s direction. Average note, 75. Messrs. Hogan, Mitchell, Foote and Murphy distinguished themselves.
First Rhetoric.—This class has been joined to the class of English Literature, a promotion merited by its members. Average note 70. Best notes awarded to W. J. Clarke, Thos. Watson, P. J. O’Connell, C. Dodge, J. Hogan and C. Hutchings.
Second Rhetoric.—This class is raised to the rank of First Rhetoric, under Mr. F. C. Biglow S.S.C., Average note, 65. Best notes received by D. Maloney, T. J. Dundon, P. J. White, W. Breen, S. E. Dum. A new class of Rhetoric has been formed with Rev. Father P. Condon, S.S.C., for teacher.
sciences. ■
A- Class of Logic and Mental Philosophy has just commenced under Rev. Father Louage.
Chemistry.—This class, taught by Rev. Father T. Vagnier, S.S.C., was examined only orally. Average notes, 65. Best notes awarded to T. O’Mahony, M. Foley, J. McHugh.
Physics.—Taught by Rev. T. Vagnier, S.S.C., was examined only orally. Average note 70. Best notes awarded to T. O’Mahony, T. Ireland, M. Carr, J. McHugh.
Botany.—Taught by Rev. J. C. Carrier, S.S.C. Oral examination, average note, 73. Best notes awarded to T. O’Mahony, M. Mahony, M. Keeley, P. J. O’Connell.
Mineralogy.—Taught by Rev. J. C. Carrier, S.S.C. Average note, 90. Best notes deserved by T. O’Mahony, N. S. Mitchell and M. Keeley.
Physiology.—Taught by Rev. J. C. Carrier, S.S.C. Average note, 86. Best notes deserved by J. McCormick, J. McHugh, T. O’Mahony, T. Ireland.	'
Geology.—Taught by Rev. J. C. Carrier, S.S.C. Average note, 70. Messrs. J. McHugh, T. O’Mahony, M. Foote, N. Mitchell, M. Carr, M. Keeley, T. Ireland received the best notes.
Zoology.—Taught by Rev. J. C. Carrier, S.S.C. Average note, 70. Best notes were given to Messrs. O’Mahony, Foote, McCormick, McHugh and Keeley.
Modem History.—Taught by Prof T. Howard, A. M. Average note, 75. Best notes awarded to Messrs. R. Curran, T. Phillips, H. Dehner, J. Stinson, E. Barry, C. Hodgson, D. Hogan, R. Lang and L. Godefroy.
Trigonometry.—Taught by Prof. T. E. Howard, A. M. Average note, 65. Messrs. M. Mahony, H. Walker and P. Fitzpatrick received best notes. This class has completed the course.
A new class of Trigonometry has been formed, under Prof. T. E. Howard, A. M.
First Geometry.—This class has completed the course, under Prof T. E. Howard. Average note, 85. Best notes awarded to T. Dundon, P. J. O’Connell, T. P. White and J. D. McCormick.
Second Geometry.—Becomes first, under Prof. D. A. Clarke, A. B. Average note, 65. Best notes awarded to F. P. Leffingwell, R. Curran, M. Foote, G. W. Darr.
First Algebra.—This class, taught by Prof. Ivers, has gone over the matter required for the Classical Course. It will continue with the Scientific Students. Average note, 72. Messrs. T. P. White, D. Maloney, T. J. Dundon, received best .notes.
Second Algebra.—This class is taught byProt. A. J. Stace. Average note, 80. Messrs. J. Walsh, M. Foote, S. Dum, W. Dum, F. Leffingwell and R. Curran were awarded the best notes.
Third Algebra.—This class is taught by Prof D. A. Clarke. Average note, 60. Best notes awarded to Messrs. T. Murphy, J. Carr and C. Dodge.
A Fourth Class of Algebra has commenced, under Mr. J. O’Connell’s direction and is largely attended.	•
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
First Book-keeping Class—Average note 95. Best notes awarded to J. Stinson, R. Lang, J. McFarland. This class is dissolved.
Second Book-keeping Class—Average note 100. Best notes awarded to C. Hodgson, H. Dehner, E. Barry, J. Smart, L. Godefroy, H. Waldorf, C. Ber-del. This class becomes the First.
Third Book-keeping Class—Average note 95. Best notes awarded to T. Phillips, J. Bowen, J. Darmody, C. Donnelly, J. Poundstone, J. Carr, E. Olwill, D. Gahan. This class becomes the Second. A new class called the Third Class of Book-keeping has just commenced with some thirty members. All the Book-keeping classes are under Prof L. G. Tong’s able management
First Grammar Class, (Sr.)—Taught by Prof J. A. Lyons. Average note 85. Messrs. F. P. Leffingwell, H. L. Dehner, J. Bowen, were promoted to First Rhetoric. A. Dickerhoff E. Barry, M. Bastorache, B. Roberts, F. Arantz, H. Waldorf, L. Godefroy, T. Renshaw, J. E. Hogan, were promoted to Second Rhetoric.
Second Grammar Class, (Sr.)—Taught by Prof. A. J. Stace, AM. Average note 85. Messrs. J. Stinson, J. Darmody, J. Ireland, P. O’Meara, C. Hodgson, W. Fletcher, H. Hunt, J. Stubbs, J. QuiU, C. Hughes, H. Schnelker, J. Smarr, J. Zimmer, J. Noonan, O. Wing, were promoted to the First Class.
Third Grammar Class, (Sr.)—Taught by Rev. J. O’Rourke. Average note 75. Mr. J.Wernertwaa promoted to the First Class. Messrs. T.Phillips, J. Kinney, C. Donnelly, M. Fitzgerald, E. Cavanaugh, E. Graves, T. Hansard and J. Comer, were promoted to the Second Class.
Fourth Grammar Class, (Sr.)—Taught by Mr. D. Tighe, S.S.C. Average note of the class 70. Messrs. B. Drake, P. Logue, C. Harvey, were promoted to the Second Class. D. Gahan, R. Dooley, P. Fitzpatrick and A. Filson, were promoted to the Third Class.
First Grammar Class, (Jr.)—This class, taught during the first session by Bro. Benjamin, S.S.C., had for average note 75. J. Wuest was promoted to Rhetoric. F. Devoto, J. Kilcoin, E. Dougherty, F. Phelan, J. Caren, J. Spillard, F. Anderson and V. McKinnon, were promoted to the First Grammar (Sr). J. Dunne, J. McGinnis, E. Olwill, J. Caren, F. Anderson were the next best noted.
Second Grammar (Jr.)—Taught by Bro. Benjamin. Average note, 70. Best notes awarded to D. O’Connell, W. Ball, J. Devine, H. Shephard, F. Sweger, E. Roberts, W. Beck and J. Hoffman
Third Grammar (Jr.)—This class was taught by Bro. Marcellinus, S.S.C., during the first session. It is now taught by Mr. J. F. Edwards. Average note, 65. Best notes awarded to E. Milburn, A. Kline, H. Quan, J. Bracken, G. Gross and H. Heckert, who were promoted to Second Grammar Class.
Fourth Grammar (Jr.)—This class is taught by Bro. Albert, S.S.C. Average note, 80. Best notes awarded to F. Smith, T. O’Neil, L. Munn, W. Roulhac, J. Birdsell, W. Murphy, J. Burnside, F. Miller.
Fifth Grammar (Jr.)—This class is taught by Bro. Emmanuel, S.S.C. Average note, 75. Best notes awarded to D. Glickhoff W. Kane, F. Bower, B. Fisher, A. Paquin.
First Arithmetic (Sr.)—This class, taught by Prof. W. Ivers, shows a large list of promotions. Average note, 85. Messrs. F. Arantz, J.. Stinson,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
H. Dehner, C. Berdel, J. Bourke, E. Barry, O. .Wing, J. Ward, J. Crummey, H. Waldorf; J. G. .Bowen, T. P. Phillips, J. Smarr, L. Godfrey, L. Mc-Osker, E. Newton, P. O’Meara, J. Walsh, J. E. .Hogan. J. Bumely and T. Watson were awarded the highest notes, or allowed to discontinue.
Second Arithmetic (Sr.)—This class was taught by Prof. A J. Stace during the first session. Average note, 80. The following students were promoted to the First Class: Jos. Karst, P. Logue, S. Poundstone, T. A Ireland, A Dickerhoff and -J. D. Waters. Best notes awarded to Messrs. E. Graves, J. Darmody, H. Schnelker, W. Easton, G. Wirthlin, T. Garrity, C. Hodgson and J. L. Noonan.
Third Arithmetic (Sr.).—This class, taught by Prof D. A Clarke, has been promoted to the rank of 2d Class. Average note 75. Best notes awarded to M. Bastorache, J. J. Kinney, T. Hansard, C. •M. Karst, B. W. Drake, D. F. Gahan, J. Dehner, - G. Riopelle, J. W. McCallister, W. Moon, H. Hunt.
Fourth Arithmetic (Sr.).—Taught by Prof. W. Ivers during the first session, and by Bro. Gabriel, S.8.C., during the 2d session. It has been promoted to the rank of 3d class. Average note 70. Messrs. C. M. Harvey, J. McIntyre, A Filson, and C. Salisbury, received the best notes.
First Arithmetic (Jr.).—Taught by Prof. W. Ivers. Average note 65. Best notes deserved by J. Spillard, W. Wuest, F. Devoto, F. McOsker, C. Hutchings, and J. Stubbs.
Second Arithmetic (Jr.).—Taught by Bro. Benjamin, S.S.C. Average note 80. Best notes deserved by T. Anderson, F. Phelam, H. Beckman, J. McMahon, W. Meyer, and E. Plummer.
Third Arithmetic (Jr.)—Taught by Brother Emmanuel, S.S.C. Average standing, 80. Best notes awarded to E. Milbum, W. Ball, D. O’Connell, J. Hoffman, T. O’Neil, E. Asher and V. McKinnon.
Fourth Arithmetic (Jr.)—Taught by Prof D. A Clarke. Average standing, 80. Highest notes awarded to J. Graham, W. Muller, H. Shephard, E. Edwards, B. Fischer, W. Byrne, F. Livingstone, S. Munn, J. Roulhac, J. Juiff, J. Kurt, F. Smith, W. Murphy.
Fifth ArithTnetin (Jr.)—Taught during the first session by Brother Maurice, and during the second by Mr. J. F. Edwards. Average note, 60. Best notes received by W. Ohlen, F. Bower, W. Morgan, R. Kelly and J. Gleeson.
First Geography (Sr. and Jr.)—Taught by Prof ,D.SA Clarke. Average note, 90. Best notes awarded to Messrs. J. Wernert, T. Phillips, J. Kinney,<H. D ehner, E. Graves, V. Baca, J. W. McAlister, and Masters T. O’Neil, H. Shephard, J. Marks, W. Gross, W. Meyer, G. Gross, E. Dougherty, D. O’ConndL
Second Geography (Jr.)—Taught during the first session by Prof M. A J. Baasen; during the second session by Mr. J. F. Edwards. Average note, 75. Best notes awarded to Masters W. Kin-zie, W. Sample, J. Sherlock, A Paquin, W. Quan, W. Murphy.
First Spelling (Sr.) — Taught by Rev. J. .O’Rourke. Average note, 90. Best notes were awarded to Messrs. E. Barry, J. Wernert, T. Phillips, F. Hansard, J. Comer, J. Kinney, M. Bastorache.
Second Spelling (Sr.)—Taught by Mr. F. C. Bigelow, S.S.C. Average note, 55. Best notes deserved by W. Easton, M. Fitzgerald, C. Donnelly, J. Dehner, T. Fitzpatrick and A Brown. . First Spelling (Jr.)—Taught by Brother Benjamin, S.S.C. Average note, 70. Masters A Dick-erhoff, G. Roulhac, F. Devoto, H. Shephard, W. .Meyer, S. Ashton, J. Bumside, received the best notes at examination.
Second Spelling (Jr.)—Taught by Bro. Emmanuel, S.S.C. Average note 75. Masters E. Marshall, ,T. O’Neil, G. Gross, H. Hunt, W. Beck, A Paquin, J. Pumphrey, received the highest notes. ,
Third Spelling (Jr.)—Taught by Bro. Albert, S.S.C. Average note 55. Best notes were awarded to H. Hoffman, F. Miller, T. Stubbs, S. Wile, J. Birdsell.
First Reading, (Sr.)—Taught by Prof. J. A. Lyons. Average note 75. Best notes awarded to J. Wernert, J. Comer, J. Noonan, T. Renshaw, W. Easton, D. Gahan and M. Fitzgerald.
First Reading (Jr.)—Taught by Prof. J. A Lyons. Average note 90. Masters L. Hibben, D. D. Hogan, J. Kilcoin, W. Fletcher, G. Gross, J. Caren, J. Devine, E. Dougherty, E. Edwards, E. Asher, J. Spillard, received the highest notes.
Second Reading (Jr.).—Taught by Bro. Benjamin, S.S.C. Average note 65. Masters J. Birdsell, L. Munn, F. Sweger, T. O’Neil, H. Shephard, F. Livingstone, J. Hoffman, and J. Bumham, received the best notes.
Third Reading (Jr.).—Taught by Bro. Gabriel, S.S.C. Average note 70. Best notes deserved by Masters A Wile, J. Dore, A. Schmidt, E. Poor, W. Ohlen, J. E. Darrow, and E. Bower.
First French.—Taught by Prof. Deloulme during the first session. Average note 75. Messieurs T. O’Mahony and T. J. Badeaux deserved mention.
Second French.—Taught by Rev. P. W. Condon, S.S.C. Average note 70. Messrs. Godfrey and Berdel received the best notes.
A beginning Junior French Class, taught by Rev. P. Condon, S.S.C., and a beginning Senior French Class, taught by Rev. A. Lemonnier, S.S.C., have commenced this Session.
First German (Sr. and Jr.)—Taught by Rev. Jacob Lauth. Average note 90. Best notes deserved by J. Rumely, F. Leffingwell, R. Lang, J. Miller and J. Kauffman.
There was no Second Class during the first session.
Third German (Sr.)—Taught by Rev. Jacob Lauth, promoted to the rank of Second Class. Average note 70. Best notes awarded to D. Maloney, W. Walker, J. Comer, J. Karst.
A new German class has commenced, with Mr. E. P. Schneider for teacher.
Second German (Jr.)—Taught by Prof. M. A. J. Baasen, AM., has been promoted to the rank of First Class. Average note 70. Masters J. Luebke, F. Devoto, H. Heckert and B. Fischer, receive the highest notes.
Third German (Jr.)—Taught by Prof M. A J. Baasen, is now the Second Class. Average note 75. Best notes were awarded to F. Anderson, J. Carr, J. Devine, W. Nelson, H. Beckman and J. Bracken.
Fourth German (Jr.).—Taught by Rev. John Lauth, has become the Third Class. Average note 63. F. Arantz, G. Roulhac, C Bloomhoff and J. Pumphrey, distinguished themselves.
A Fourth German Class has commenced, with Rev. J. Lauth for teacher.
St Aloysius’ Ehilodomic Association.
The Association, on the 1st of February, 1872, assembled for the purpose of electing officers for the second session of the scholastic year 1871-72. The result of the election proved as follows:
Director—Rev. J. C. Carrier, S.S.C.
President—Prof. A J. Stace, A. IL ^Vice-President—M. J. Moriarty.—. / Recording Secretary—P. Fitzpatrick. I Corresponding Secretary—T. A Ireland.’. ; Treasurer—L. J. Godfrey.	\
' Critic—M. Carr.	\
Assistant Critic—B. Chamberlain.
1st Librarian—J. F. Wernert.	I
2nd Librarian—J. L. Noonan.	I
Censor—O. A Wing.	\
Assistant Censor—J. Crummey..	\
| The object for which the meeting was called neing accomplished, the members again adjourned, I	Thomas A Ibeland, Cot. Sec. \
St. Cecilia Ehilomathean, Association.
The fifteenth regular meeting of this Association took place January 13, 1872. At this meeting B. Hughes, after reading a fine composition on “ Base-Ball,” was admitted into the Society. Next in order were the essayists: Frank Egan knows well the “ Value of Money.” J. Spillard “ Came from Home ” splendidly. D. J. Hogan “ Crossed the Atlantic without getting Sea-sick." F. Pheo-lan has written funny “ Notes on the Way.” B. Roberts "Employs his Time Valuably.” P. Cooney spent “ Christmas Holidays ” joyfully.
Then followed declamations, of which C. Ber-dell’s and J. Rumeley’s were the best delivered.
The 16th, 17th, and 18th meetings were held, respectively, January 20th, 26 th, and 29 th.
At these meetings, after the subject for debate was given out:
“ Resolved, That the Works of Fiction ought to be abolished,”
the following members read essays and delivered declamations:
M. Foote gave us a splendid essay on the “ Solar Eclipse of 1869.” It was the best essay of the season, and was read with that clear articulation for which this young man is so remarkable. H. Hunt’s “Trip on the Mississippi” was delightful. J. McHugh’s “Criticism” was rather critical, and remarkably impartial. C. Dodge’s “Rhetoric” was profound, and rich in ideas. We hope to see this essay in the Scholastic. It was well read. F. McOsker’s “Sailor’s Life” was rather nautical. D. J. Hogan’s “Irish Live Wake” was very descriptive and occasionally amusing. E. Robert’s “ Hunting” was full of game. L. Hibben’s “Recreation Day at Notre Dame ” was very sunny. J. Quill’s “Judge not" proves that he will make a just judge though he lives in Chicago. C. Hutch-ing’s “Day at Rockaway Beach ” was very soulstirring. Charlie is a magnanimous youth. His advice to those visiting there is sound.
Of the declamations, S. Ashton’s and C. Dodge's were the best. C. Dodges’ “ Gladiators ” was probably the best ever delivered in the institution. His style is worthy of an old elocutionist.
M.	Foote closed the exercise of the evening with a very well written criticism on the beauties and defects in the compositions and declamations of the.past session.
There are many other things worthy of note which I would like to mention, but for fear of trespassing too much on the space kindly allowed us in the Scholastic, we omit them for the present, and content ourselves with having given a few bare facts.
Dennis J. Hogan, Cor. Sec.
Examination at St. Mary’s.
Towards the end of the Examination an excellent programme of English, French and German readings, and of vocal and instrumental music was listened to by a number of invited guests from South Bend and the College:
PBOGBAMME.
Air-Castles—Composed and read by Miss L. Marshall, Graduating Class.
Exercises in Elocution—French, German and English. Damas par Lamartine—Bead by Miss M. Sherland, Graduating Class.
Damas (continued)—By Miss M. Quan, Third Senior Class.	.
“Poor Little Jim”—Miss D. Willey, Second Preparatory Class.
Erl King—Miss A E. Clarke, Graduating Class.
Letre de Mme. Liviqui—Miss N. Gross, Second Senior Class.
L’Arabe et son Cheval—Miss A. Clarke, Second Senior Class.
The Tyrant and his Captive—By Miss G. Hurst, Gradu-. ating Class.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Empty Stocking—Composed and read hy Miss H. Tompkins. MUSIC.
Chorus—“Happy Hours,”..............Vocal Class
Sehnsucht Ann Meere, (Willmers).Miss R. Spiers Romance—Harp, (Spohr)...........Miss K. McMahon
Romance—Nouvclle, (Wheli)..........Miss G. Hurst
Song—“Haunted Stream ”..........Miss M. Toberty
La Somnambula (Legback)...........Miss	A. Todd
Song—“Lost Birdling”—(Centeneri)...Miss K. Mc-
Mahon.
Les Nymphs des Bois—(Ascher)...Miss E. Plamondon Vocal Duet—(Kuchen).......Misses West and Forbes
“ Cujus Animam,”—(Liszt)........Miss K. McMahon
Song—“ Merry Zingara”—(Balfe)...Miss R. Devoto
Fantasis—“Dinorah”—(Hoffman)....Miss A. Borup
Aira from Traviata—Harp—(P. Alvera).. .Miss M. Shir-land.
“Last Hope”—(Gottschalk)........MissF. Tompkins
Song—“Happy Birdling”—(Wallacs)...Miss J. Hynds “La Juire”—Fantasis—(Prudent)....Miss M. Kirwan Vocal Duet—"Maritana ”—(Wallacs)...Misses Hynds, and Tompkins.
Sonata, Adagio, Allegro, Andantino, ((Mozart)... .Miss M. Sherland.
Chorus..............................Vocal	Class
Cari of Thanks.
The members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association return their sincere thanks to the St Edward’s Literary Association for their kind invitation to attend a Literary Soiree given by them January IGth, and they take this occasion to say that they were highly delighted with such a great display of talent, and hope before long they will witness a like entertainment.
J. A. Lyons,	S. E. Dot,
President.	Secretary.
A Funny Typographical Blunder.—A funny typographical blunder occurred in the columns of the Paris Constitutionnel, in connection with M. Thiers, who was writing for the paper at the time the mistake occurred. It was in the days when Thiers was prime minister of France, under Louis Phillippe, forty years ago. Then, as now, M. Thiers was veiy sensitive upon the subject of adverse votes of the chambers, and was always ready to resign his office at the slightest provocation. One of these emergencies occurred, and M. Thiers sent in his resignation, but at an interview with the king, he was induced to withdraw it. On the same day a noted burglar had been captured and brought before the juge d'instruction, whom he grossly insulted. The Constitutionnel contained the following two items about it: “After his majesty had informed M. Thiers of his desire to keep him at the head of the government, the prime minister, deeply moved, replied to the king, ‘ you rascally old fellow, I feel like wrenching your head off!’ ” “ The burglar, Jenneuse, was captured yesterday by the gendarmes. He was taken in irons before the jugs d'instruction, to whom he had the impudence to say: ‘Your majesty, the confidence you repose in me, touches my heart extremely. I shall try my best not to disappoint your expectations.’” The closing paragraphs of the two items had of course been transposed.
During the Franco-Prussian war a great deal of fun was poked at the New Jersey editor who read in the cable dispatches that “ Bazaine has moved 20 kilometres out of Metz.” He thereupon sat down and wrote an editorial, in which he was delighted to hear that all the kilometres had been removed, and that the innocent people of Metz were no longer endangered by the presence of those devilish engines of war—sleeping upon a volcano, as it were. And then he went on to describe some experiments made with kilometres during the Crimean war, in which one of them exploded, and blew a frigate out of the water.
SAZ2TT MARY’S ACADEMY.
St. Mary’s Academy, )
February 6, 1872. J
ARRIVALS.
Miss Nora Duggan, Miss Laura B. Johnson, Miss Martha Farnum, Miss Ella Paxon, Miss Maria Donohue, Miss Emma Greenleaf, Miss Kate Greenleaf Miss Mollie Ball, Miss Lillian James, Miss Laura Sutherland, Miss Ella Lappin, Miss Ella Wilcox, Miss E. Howel,
Saginaw, Mich. Bloomington, HL Chicago, HL Monroe, Mich. Mendota, HL Ottawa, HI. Ottawa, Hl. Chicago, HI. Kokomo, Ind. Englewood, HL Seneca, Kan. St. Louis, Mo. Seneca, HL
The examination of the English classes continued for eight days. Three bureaus were occupied six hours a day each. A special bureau was formed for Music, French, German and Latin. The following list contains the names of those pupils who, having received notes in class ranging from one to two, are entitled to honorable mention:
GERMAN.
First Class—Misses A. Clark, K. Zell, K. Brown, L. Pfeiffer, B. Schmidt, V. Miller, M. Dillon, E. Rollins.
Second Class—Misses M. Faxon, V. Ball, J. Millis, R. Wile, A. Rose.
LATIN.
Miss C. Davis, Miss F. Munn.
FRENCH.
First Class—Misses L. Marshall, M. Sherland, J. Forbes, G. Hurst, H. Tinsley, M. Kirwan, A. Borup, R. Spiers, N. Gross, M. Quan, A. Clarke.
Second Class—L. West, J. Kearney, M. Letourneau, M. Cochrane, M. Kearney, K. Haymond.
Third Class—Misses L. Tinsley, E. Plamondon, A. Todd, A. Lynch.
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
First Class—Honorably mentioned, Misses Sherland and Kirwan.
Second Division—Honorably mentioned, Misses Tompkins, Borup and McMahon.
Second Class—Honorably mentioned, Misses Plamondon, Todd, Hurst and Spiers. Promoted to this class, Miss A. E. Clark.
Second Division—Honorably mentioned, Misses Goldhardt, Rollins, West and Logan. Promoted to this class, Miss L. Duffield.
Third Class—Honorably mentioned, Misses Lassen, Prince, H. McMahon. Promoted to this class, Misses Quan and D. Greene.
Second Division—Honorably mentioned, Misses K. Brown, Emonds, Tuberty, C. Lange. Promoted to this class, Misses Devoto and Coffee.
Fourth Class—Honorably mentioned, Misses Zell, Forbes, Brandenbury and Wilder. Promoted to this class, Misses Byrnes, Gross, A. Woods and A. Clarke.
Second Division—Honorably mentioned, Misses Corcoran, Moore and S. Johnson. Promoted to this class, Misses Davis, Honeyman, Schmidt, Shea and J. Kearney.
Fifth Class—Honorably mentioned, Misses M. Kelly, G. Kelly, M. Pinney and J. Millis. Promoted to this class, Misses M. Walker, J. Walker and M. Cummings. Promoted and forming the Second Division, Misses Tinsley, L. McKinnon, M. Booth and L. Woods.
Sixth Class—Honorably mentioned, Misses Luce, Haymond, Hamilton. Promoted to this class, Misses Conahan, Pfeiffer and Buehler.
Second Division—Honorably mentioned, Misses Edwards, B. Wade, E.'Wade and A. Lloyd. Pro
moted, Misses Faxon, Taylor, Carlin, Germain, 3. Duffield and F. Lloyd.
Seventh Class—Honorably mentioned, Misses Eutsler, Reynolds, V. Ball, H. McLaughlin, A. McLaughlin, A. Rose. Promoted, Misses Sylvester and Horrigan.
Eighth Class—Honorably mentioned—M. Hildreth. Promoted, Misses A. Walsh, F. Munn, M. Reynolds.
Ninth Class—Honorably mentioned, Missal-Wile, N. O’Meara, K. Fullmer. Promoted, MisaOT M. Walsh, L. Walsh and V. Hupp.
Tenth Class—Misses Cronan, J. Valdors and R. Manzauras, deserve credit. They have taken les- • sons only a few weeks.
Harp—Misses M. Sherland and K. McMahon Guitar—Misses H. Tompkins, B. Crowley.
VOCAL MUSIC.
Misses J. Hinds, M. Toberty, H. Tompkins, R.-' Devoto, L. West, I. Logan, K. McMahon, J. Forbes, M. Prince, J. Coffee, M. Wicker, J. Millis, K. Brown, M. and J. Kearney, F. Moore, L. Pfeiffer, I. Edwards, F. Lloyd and M. Kelly.
General Vocal Class—Misses M. and S. Lynch, H. O’Meara, B. Schmidt, H. and A. McLaughlin.
DRAWING.
First Class—Mises D. Green, J. Millis, A. Shea, A. Woods, A. Emonds, M. Lange.
Second Division—Misses L Edwards, E. Rollin, B. Reynolds, S. Honeyman, N. Sullivan, M. Kelly.
Second Class—Misses M. Cummings, B. Wade, L. Harrison, E. Wade.
WATER COLOR TAINTING.
Misses A. Emonds, A. Woods, N. Sullivan, L. Harrison, M. Kelly, E. Rollin.
OIL PAINTING.
Misses D. Green, A. Shea, M. Lange, J. Millis, A. Woods.
Taking Things Easy.—When a man tells yon that he “always takes things easy,” and “never puts himself out of the way for anything or anybody,” set him down in your mental memorandum book as a case of chronic laziness and selfishness. Such easy-going individuals never win either fortune or fame. They may call their indifference independence; but if so, they make amiserablemis-take. Real independence is the offspring of well directed energy; and the “philosophy of indolence” is nothing better than a mean and contemptible sophistry. “ Whatever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might,” is the vigorous lan* guageof inspiration; and David Crockett’s “ Be sure you are right and then go ahead,” is simply the divine command translated into rough Anglo-Saxon.
A man went to Mr. Greeley the other day and told him he was destitute, he didn’t even have a cent, and wanted to know what he should do. Horace scratched his head, and thought a minute, and then said:
“Pll tdl you what to do. You buy a ten cylinder Hoe press and go to some station on the. Pacific Railroad, away from civilization, and start an eight-page morning paper, and grow up with the country.”
f'l
In one of our law courts a witness was testifying, regarding his connection with a case where offers, had been made him to assault a man, but he declined the job. With great solemnity the counsel asked, as if anticipating a high moral reason for his refusal, why the witness did not commit the assault “Well sir,” was the candid reply, “I am a little lame, and I was afraid the police would catch me.”
“ I feel,” said an old lady, “ Eve got about through with this world. I shan’t enjoy much more trouble.”
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
It’s your tall fellows who are luckiest in love. The ladies are always in favor of Hy-men.
Why are books your best friends ? Because you can shut them up without offending them.
Why is a moth fluttering around a candle like a mm getting off a horse? Because they are both going to a-light.
A Pennsylvania music-teacher fell from a third story window and found the “pitch” uncomfortably high. ■
What is the difference between an awful row in the street, and a morsel of Oh-no-I-couldn’t-mention-’ems ? Why one is a breach of the peace, and the other is a piece of the breech, to be sure.
Wife.—“ The most beautiful words in the English language are Mother, Home and Heaven.” A young married man at our elbow says, that all the beauty and happiness connected with the above three words are associated with the single word “Wife.”
An eccentric old gentleman, in order to test the sincerity of his friends, one morning hung out a piece of stair carpet out of his first-floor window with a sheriff’s auction announcement affixed. It had the desired effect. It was like firing a gun at a pigeon house.
Equal to the Situation.—The Parson—1 Well ■Lizzie, your mother’s come out of prison, I hear. How is she now?"
Lizzie—“ O, thanky sir, she’s ev’ so much better. She’ve had capital times in there. Bather’s out o’ work, and rather poorly, so he got took up last night
Temperature of Foreign Cities.—The average temperature, Fahrenheit, taken for the whole year in some of the principal cities abroad, is as follows:
Constantinople, 60 degrees; Home and Lisbon, 57; Jeddo, 56; Pekin, 52; Vienna and Paris, 51; Brussels and London, 50 Edinburgh, 46}£; Stockholm, 42; St. Petersburgh, 39.
The following is said to be an exact copy of an official placard issued by the city authorities of Janesville, Wisconsin, twelve years ago:
“ Talca Notice:—All persons residing in the city of Janesville owning or having in his or her possession any dog or pup, and suffering the same to run at large without being securely muzzled so as to prevent her biting, will be killed if found running at large after April 26th, 1859.
“ By order of the mayor.”
UNIVERSITY or NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted np with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Bailroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States
TERMS:
Matriculation Fee, -	-	-	-	-	.	- $ 5 00
Board, Bed and Bedding, andTuition (Latin and Greek);
Washing and Mending of Linens; Doctor’s Fees and
Medicine, and attendance in sickness, per Session of five months, ..................................... 150	00
French, German, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, -------	-	-	- 10 00
Instrumental Music, -	--	--	--	12	fin
Use of Piano, -------	-	-	10	00
Use of Violin,	g	qq
Drawing, -	-..................................15	oq
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus,	-	-	5	00
Graduation Fee—Com’l, $5 00; Scient’c, 88 00; Classi, 1G 00
Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are charged, extra,	-	-	35 00
Payments to be made invariably tn advance:
Class Books, Stationary, etc., at current prices.
The first Session begins on the first Tuesday of September die Second on the 1st of February.	*
For further particulars, address
Very Bev. W. COBBY,
Brasideiit,
The “A.VJE MARIA,”
A Cathouc Journal, particularly devoted to the Holy Mother of God. Published a eekly at Notre Dame University, Indiana, encouraged and approved by the highest authority of the Church.
’	TERMS:
Life subscription. $20, payable in advance, or by installments paid within the year.
For 5 years, $10, in advance. For a years. in advance. For 1 year, $3, in advance. Single copies, 10 cents.	.
To clubs often subscribers, for one year, eleven copies of the Ave Maria for $25, in advance.
To cl nbs of ten subscribers, for two years, eleven copies of the Ave Mabia for $15, in advance.
To clubs of twenty subscribers, for one year, twenty-five copies of the Ave Mafia for $50, in advance.
The postage of the Ave Ma!ua is but five cents a quarter, or twenty cents a year, when paid in advance—either by remittance to the mailing office here, or paid at the subscriber’s post office.
Address,	Editor AVE MARLA,
Notre Dame, Indiana,
^AINT ^ARY’S JUaDEMY,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY, under the direction of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, is situated on the St. Joseph River, eighty-six miles east of Chicago, via Michigan Southern Railroad, and two miles from the flourishing town of South Bend.
The site of St. Mary’s is one to claim the admiration of every beholder. It would appear that nature had anticipated the use to which the grounds were to be applied, and had disposed her advantages to meet the requirements of such an establishment. Magnificent forest trees rising from the banks of one of the most beautiful rivers in the Mississippi Valley still stand in native grandeur; the music of bright waters and healthful breezes inspire activity and energy, while the quiet seclusion invites to reflection and study.
MOTHER M. ANGELA, Superior,
St. Nary's Academy, Notre Name, Ind.
OLD, RELIABLE AND POPULAR ROUTE.
Chicago, Alton & St. Louis Line.
THE ONLY FIRST-CLASS ROAD IN THE WEST.
(See Classification of Railways by Board of Railway Commissioners.)
The Shortest, Best and Quickest Route
rnoM
CHICAGO TO ST. LOTTIS,
'Witlioii't Change of Cars.
®RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, DI., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, and also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, DI., and Louisiana, Mo.
LEAVE.
♦9:15 a.m.
♦9:15 a.m.
♦9:15 a.m.
*4:10 p.m.
ARRIVE.
♦8:00 p.m,
*4:30 p.m.
♦4:30 p.m.
♦9:40 a.m.
♦4:30 p.m.
♦ Except Sunday, t On Sunday runs to Springfield only. $ Except Saturday, i Daily. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Time, only 11 Sours-
The only Line running Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars between Chicago and St. Louis.
Close Connections in St. Louis for all points in Missouri, Kansas, Colorado and California. The Direct Route and the only all rail route to Memphis, Vicksburg, Mobile, New Orleans, and all points South.
Avoid a long Steamboat Transfer of Twency-Five Miles, and changes of Cars by taking this Route.
Pullman Palace Cars run on this Route only from Chicago to New Orleans, with but one change.
Louisiana, Mo., New Short Route, Chicago to Kansas City via Chicago & Alton and North Missouri Railroads, passing through Bloomington and Jacksonville, HL, and crossing the Mississippi at Louisiana, Mo.
The best Short Route, from Chicago to Kansas City without change of Cars.
Close Connections in Union Depot, Kansas City, with all Western Roads for Kansas, Colorado, New Mexico and California, and in Chicago with trains of all Eastern roads.
Elegant Day Cars and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars run through from Chicago to St. Louis and Chicago to Kansas City	_____ ___
WITBOUT CHANGS.
Pullman Palace Dinf ng and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
The only Line running these Cars between Chicago and St. Louis, and Chicago and Kansas City.
■TAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gcn’l Pass, and Ticket Agent, Gen’l Superintendent, CHICAGO.	CHICAGO.
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
SUMMER ABRASGEMEST.
rp^RAINS now leave South Bend as follows:
GOING
Leave South Bend 10 S8 a. m.
**	•*	12222 p. m.
“	“	9.20	p.m.
“	“	12.35	a.m.
EAST,
Arrive at Buffalo 2 JO a. m «	“	11.00 a. m
“	“	2.00 p. m
*	°	5.30	p.m
GOING
Leave South Bend 5 05 p.m. “	“	3J5 a. m.
“	M	4 30 a.m.
“	“	022 p. m.
WEST, Arrive at Chicago 8.20 p. m “	«	6.50 a. m.
«	«	7^0 a. m
«	“	940 p. m
Making connection with all trains West and North.
43* For full details, see the Company’s posters and time tables at the depot and other public places.
Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes faster than South Bend time,
J. H. DEVEREUX. General Manager, Cleveland, Chie.
CHARLES F. HATCH, General Superintendent, Cleveland.
C. P. Leland, Auditor. Cleveland, Ohio.
Jno. Desmond, Sup’t Western Division, Chicago, Ill.
J. W. CART, General Ticket Agent Cleveland, Ohio.
C. Morse, General Passenger Agent, Chicago, Illinois.
M. B. Brown, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
A. J. Whits, Freight Agent, South Bend.
NEW ALBANY CROSSING.
To Lafayette and Louisville.
Going North—Express passenger, 4.20 a.m.,and7:30p.m. Freight, 4:05 p. m.
Going South*—Express passenger, 11:13 a. m., and 6:20 p. m.
Freight, 4:50 a. m.
PENNSYLVANIA CENTRAL]
DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman’s Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New York without Change.
Direct Route to Baltimore and Washington Oily.
ON and after June 1,1871, the 9 p.m. train from Chicago arrives in New York at 11.30 a.m. the second day, 1)^ hour in advance of any other route ; with corresponding redaction to Boston, Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington. Leaves Chicago daily except Saturdays and Sundays.
The 5.15 p.m. train from Chicago arrives in New York at 6 41 a m. the second morning, 1J4 hour in advance of any other line. This train has an elegant Silver Palace Car running through between Chicago, Philadelphia and hew York without change. .
The 9 a.m. train from Chicago daily (except Sunday), with Pullman Palace Cars attached. Through between Chicago and New York, ‘icithout change, 3J4 hour* in advance of any other route, and in time to make connection for Boston. No other Line offers this andvantage.
Trains from Chicago to Clevelandcfa Crestline and uBee” Line, connecting at Cleveland with trains on the Lake Shore Railroad for all points reached by that route.
Connections made at Crestline for Columbus, and at Mansfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
Passage and Sleeping-Car Tickets can be purchased at the Company’s Office, b5 Clark Street, and at the Passenger Depot, corner Madison and Canal Streets, Chicago.
9 HOMAS L. &COTT, President.
j. N. McCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, Ass’t Sup’t, Pittsburgh.
H. W. GWINNER, Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia. F. R. MYERS, Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Ag’t, Chicago.
DUNBAR’S
Waudnfnl gferomf. |
BETHESDA MINERAL SPRING WATER, OX* WAUKESHA, WISCONSIN.!
COL. DUNBAR, Director and General Manager of the Bethesda Springs, of Waukesha, Wisconsin, has opened a depot for the sale of this wonderful water at 139 Dearborn street. Tribune Building, Chicago, Illi, nois. The efficacy of this water in cases of Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, Chronic Diseases of the Liver, Bilious Affections, Diseases of the Kidney, and its associate organs, Dropsy, and Gouty Swellings, is unsurpassed.
It was this water that re-established Chief-Justice Chase’s health.
Call or send for Circulars. Testimonials of cures. Directions how to nse the water accompany each package sold.
BICHABD DVNBAB,
139 Dearborn st., Chicago, Or EDWARD P. DUNBAR, at the Springs.
v5nl	,
I