Bwntetl fa ihe	nf th# Staxl#nfe>
“LABOR OAEJiTA. V1NC1T.”
Volume III.	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, DECEMBER 11, 1869.
Nctber T.
For the “ Notre Dame Scholastic.”
The (Ecumenical Council.
In this issue of the Scholastic, and in some subsequent numbers, I will endeavor to explain, as succinctly and clearly as possible, the great re ligious movement that is now being inaugurated by the Catholic Church in the convening of the (Ecumenical Council. The great cardinal tenet of the Church of Rome, as the readers of the Scholastic may be aware, is the admission of a supreme authoritative tribunal established by tfur Lord in all things appertaining to faith and morals. All Catholics hold that the Pope, as Vicar of Christ and successor of St. Peter, is the chief executive of this supreme power. In virtue of this authority he is invested with the right to exercise spiritual jurisdiction over all Catholics: bishops and priests, as well as simple laymen; and to the exercise of this right we are indebted for the present grand religious demonstration which is now agitating the entire Christian world. Well might the haughty Roman Emperors boast that their banner floated over every nation,—savage and. civilized,—and that their power was felt even to the remotest regions of the earth: and yet how insignificant their domination when compared with the influence of the Roman Pontiff, an old feeble man without an army, a navy, or any other temporal prestige. During the last few months Romeward wend their way the Catholic Bishops of every Christian country of-the globe. Europe, America, Asia, Africa, and the Islands of the oceans have heard the voice of Christ’s Vicar, and without hesitancy or deliberation respond to the invitation of the successor of St. Peter. The journals of the day may very justly announce that “they are tired noticing the departure of bishops for the Eternal City.” If any argument were necessary to convince the most skeptical that the Catholic Church, though old, is. still as young, fresh and vigorous as she was when the' Holy Spirit breathed on the Apostles and sent them forth to do battle in the cause of God, it is to be found most conclusively in this general outpouring of learning and sanctity from all parts of the Christian world. Napoleon, in his last admirable speech before the Legislative Chamber, has very properly styled this sublime assemblage as the “ grand convention of wisdom and conciliation.” No more appropriate terms could be used by the great ruler of the most powerful Catholic country of Europe. The Council of the Vatican will be emphatically the most august assembly that was ever convened to deliberate on momentous questions, either of Church or State. The Saviour of the world has promised that “ where two or three are assembled in His name, there He will be in their midst.” If this promise is infallibly fulfilled when some fervent souls in common implore light and aid from on high, with what hope and confidence may we not await the result of the Vatican deliberations,
which assuredly cannot fail to be under the especial influence of God’s Holy Spirit’ - It will not do for the anti Catholic world to affect to ignore or contemn this extraordinary event. Those* outside the Church are as intensely excited, perhaps even more intensely, than Catholics, who certainly are the most deeply interested. Already they have dispatched to Rome their most able reporters, who no doubt are expected faithfully to chronicle the details of all the proceedings. This fact alone is sufficient to convince the least credulous that the world cannot afford to look with apathy or indifference on this gigantic Catholic movement Now the question naturally presents itself: What has prompted these unusual solemn deliberations ? what will be their object and aim? As lam neither a Yankee, nor endowed with Yankee prpclivities, I will not have recourse to guessing, or pretend to know the inviolable secrets of the Vatican, which are confided only to those who are engaged in systematizing the material for the deliberations of the Council. Yet as an ordinarily well-instructed Catholic, who has observed the workings, wants, and aspirations of the Church, I think I can safely venture to lay before the readers of the Scholastic, some of the leading motives that dictated to the Church authorities this vast and superhuman undertaking. ,
At the outset, I can confidently assure the readers of the Scholastic, that so far we have no sufficient reasons to believe that the Council has any intention to define the doctrines of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin, or the Infallibility of the Pope. If, however, these points of doctrine shall be defined, it will be on the assumption that they are immediately revealed and contained in the deposit of faith which all Catholics are bound to accept when proposed for their belief by the unerring Church.
Divine revelation is in safe-keeping when intrusted to the pastors of the Church, who from the beginning have preserved it in all its^integrity.
The first mutterings of the fierce storm which wrenched the former GreeS branch of the Church from the parent tree, were distinctly heard shortly after the removal of the seat of empire from Rome to Constantinople. The Byzantine patriarchs, always jealous and envious of the power of the Bishop of Rome, affected to believe that the authority of the Pope had arisen from no other source than the temporal and social superiority of the See over which he presided; and as the imperial seat had been transferred from Rome to Constantinople, the privileges and prerogatives hitherto claimed by the Bishop of Rome, should in future be exercised by the Patriarch of that See. An open rupture, though for a long time imminent, did. not, however, occur till the ninth century, under the Patriarch Photius. "With the exception of the doctrine of the Pope’s supremacy, the teaching of the Greek Church for many years did not differ from that of the Latin or
Catholic ‘ Church. Subsequently, however, the Greeks rejected the doctrine of the Procession of the Holy Ghost from the Father and the Son, and were thenceforth treated by the Church as pertinacious heretics. In the Second (Ecumenical Council of Lyons, celebrated in 1274, the Greeks renounced their errors and subscribed to the teaching of the Catholic .Church. But their conversion did not prove very sincere, for they very soon afterwards relapsed into their former errors. Again in 1434, by invitation, they assisted at the (Ecumenical Council of Florence, submitted to the authority of the Holy See, and were again reconciled to the Church. This second recantation of errors did not differ from the first. Like the Jews, their thoughts were still among the fleshpots of Egypt, and they once more returned to their idols. May we not hope that the present Council, at which they are expected to assist, may be more successful than the two former;—perhaps the means of effecting a reconciliation that may be so sincere and permanent as to prevent the name of Greek schismatic to pass into future Christian history.	■	.
Again it is evident from the history of the Reformation in England, that intellectual conviction had no part in the so-called grand reform. Henry VHI, the former defender of the faith, was at heart a firm believer in the doctrines of the Church, but his mad ungovernable passions would not permit him to tolerate their restraint. Elizabeth had embraced Protestant worship, for the Protestant party espoused her cause, and she could not hope to secure the warm sympathy of her Catholic subjects. From that period down to the present time the Anglican Church has been emphatically a government institution. But time has worked its changes, and the grand human monuqrcnt of Henry and Elizabeth is now tottering from centre to circumference. Dr. Ewer, of New York, one of the ablest divines of the Protestant Church, had some time ago frankly and boldly declared that Protestantism has proved a failure, and Dr. Ewer’s avowal is but a faint echo of the deep latent feeling that rankles in the bosom of every intelligent Protestant. Now, however, we have reached a point when the thoughtful educated Protestant has to decide between Rationalism and Catholicity,—the cold, stoical, fluctuating operations of the intellect, or the inspired wisdom of Heaven. Of all the extravagances of Protestantism in modern times, perhaps the most grotesque and pitiful is that of the Ritualists. They are not content, and imagine that something may be found to satisfy, without entering the Catholic Church,—a delusion and a snare —the legitimate offspring of Satan’s wiles!! They will have a temple without the Lord of the temple, an altar without a sacrifice, Mass without a victim, priests without an office, lighted tapers, curling incense, and gorgeous paraphernalia, which might be used with as much propriety by a Jewish Rabbi.	'
50
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Friends of the Ritualistic persuasion: there is no middle course to pursue. Desist from your unprofitable pursuit after shadows and phantoms, as the reality is within your reach Be reconciled to the Church of ages. Intellectual conviction, peace of soul, and the highest and purest aspirations of our nature can find repose only in her loving bosom. May we not confidently hope that the Spirit of light and grace, overshadowing the deliberations of the approaching Council, shall have mercy on the wandering children of religious error, and lead them back to the one fold of the true Shepherd.
IL M. H.
For the “Notre Dame Scholastic.”
The First Thoughts of the Day.
BY AX OLD CONTRIBUTOR.
0, Piety fair is an angel bright, And he came from above at the dawn of light, Whilst the world was lost in dreams;
But the fiend of Godlessness saw his feet As they passed the stones of the silent street, And his eyes shot fearful gleams.
He sprang from his lair, like a beast of prey, His shield caught the light of the morning gray
As he crept or bounded along;
But Piety rose on the wings of prayer, And his course was swifter along the air Than the foe iu his armor strong.
A College stately and nobly wrought " As a temple worthy of mind and thought, Stood clear 'gainst the morning cloud:
Here the angel entered, and pausing oft Wherever a Crucifix hung aloft, To shame the boast of the proud,
He cast himself down and he kissed the floor, To show that he honored that image more
Than works of the shrewdest skill : Then glided he on where a hundred boys In slumber had buried their cares and joys, Till the Night should her measure fill.
The spotless couches were lying in rows, , Like graves when the hillocks are covered by snows.
And each sleepless youthful face Lay prone on the pillow, unconscious of all That fiend or that angel might work in that hall, WAat crimes or what m irvels of grace.
0, beautiful Angel of Piety! thou .
With the glow in thy heart, and the light on thy brow,
Could the children of men know'thy worth, Ah! countless dark dens of debauch and despair Would be emptied, and robbed of their pleasure and snare;
But alas! they are mad in their mirth.
Meek Piety folded his arms on his breast And gazed on those active young spirits at rest, Then passed he a moment near each.
Tears fell over some: over others he smiled, For the love of his heart is alike for each child
Whom he came down from heaven to teach.
But the fiend of Gndlessness artful crept To dry up the tears that the angel wept, ■ And he laughed with a howl of scorn: “ I hold full dominion / None other shall claim The first thoughts of youth, fbr they honor my fame
From nightfall to break of the morn.
The seraph of Piety heard the sound
That started each youth from his sleep profound, But his lily-white sceptre arose;
Then countless angelical princes of grace
Stood around to defend, and to sweetly embrace, Those children when fresh from repose.
The ranks of the fiend, though, as swiftly were filled,
And joy in each breast was as suddenly chilled As are buds when the hoar frosts descend.
But a conquest began that in annals of time Hath never been equaled in virtues or crime, Nor will be till ages shall end.
Dark Godlessness whispered his curses, and threw Such unction of evil those hearts to imbue, Every youth was entrapped in his snare;
But the forces of Piety, bearing in band White crucibles burning, the flames softly fanned, To transmute every curse to a prayer.
At his zenith the sun, triumphant looked down On the crushed ranks of evil, day’s glory to crown, Since the youth of that temple had given, Like fresh bud of Spring, or first fruit of Fall, Their first waking thoughts, to offer them all As their loving allegiance to Heaven.
For the “Notre Dame Scholastic.”
■ Robinson’s Mathematical Series.
Great minds are either synthetic or analytic. Little minds, no doubt, possess by nature either the synthetic or analytic faculty in predominance; but it is iu great minds—great by nature and improved by education*-that the predominance is marked. The predisposition given by nature is so much increased by culture, to the neglect of the opposite faculty, that we find no difficulty generally in assigning a distinguished intellect at once to the class to which it belongs. Few if any are those minds in which the two faculties are so evenly balanced that they are equally great in synthesis and analysis.
How ill-judged it is, then, for one individual to attempt to compose a complete course of mathematics! What science requires such elaborate synthesis as geometry? * How clear must be the axioms—how close the definitions,—how secure the methods of reasoning,—how tightly the first propositions must fit into the axioms and definitions, their foundations,—how cautiously the superstructure must be raised! What care must be exercised not to put more on any principle than it will bear—not to build one side of the edifice too high, even if unshapeliness be the only risk!
And in algebra quite the reverse mental operation is to take place. Here brevity is the desideratum. The edifice is to be pulled down instead of built up, and the man that can pull it down quickest without burying himself in the ruins is the best algebraist. It is a tangled skein to be unraveled, and judgment and skill are required to effect the unraveling as briefly as possible without pulling it into a worse snarl than before.
A course of mathematics very extensively used in the west of America has suggested these reflections. The author had evidently analytical talent of a very high order. He published a work on algebra which obtained popular favor. This book, after passing through numerous editions, in every one of which the delight of the author in his favorite work is apparent, stands now before the public as “ Robinson’s New University Algebra,” one of the most valuable of our text-books, and justly appreciated as such. Unluckily, however, the idea of a “ complete mathematical series” was suggested, probably by those worst of all foes to science, the booksellers and publishers of ourEastern cities. The works on arithmetic which form part of this series are excellent, some of the
other books—as the Analytical Geometry and Calculus—are tolerable, but the “ New Geometry and Trigonometry” is simply execrable.
Such an epithet, gentle reader, it would not do to use without sufficient consideration, and accordingly we submit the following category of charges against this book, to show that we have not spoken rashly.
It is not pretended th it the following are all the defects that can be noticed, even by beginners; we have, however, selected quite enough to warrant us in stigmatizing it as “ execrable.”
The copy we have under hand bears the date 1808. Some of the errors that we shall notice could not be corrected without changing the whole plan of the work, and therefore we hardly think they have been amended since.
Definitions.
Page 14, paragraph 47, “Similar figures have equal angles, and the same number of sides ”
If this is intended as a definition, it makes all rectangles similar to each other, or any rectangle similar to a square. If it is not a definition, but only a premonitory symptom of the definition of Similar Polygons, Book II, page 62, paragraph 16, it may pass,—although we do not quite see the necessity of putting it where it is.
Page 16, IT 60 Lemma : After the paragraph devoted to the explanation of this term, the word itself does not occur again in the whole work.
Book I.
Theorem V.—The author has prepared his definitions of “An Angle” and “ Parallel Lines” very carefully, with a view to striking out a short cut to the theorems relating to the intersection of parallels by a straight line. Unfortunately, however, in his anxiety to jump over the time-honored fences, he blunders into a circulus vitiosus. The principle on which he bases this Fifth Theorem is afterwards made a corollarg to the 'Sixth! and referred to as such ever afterwards in the progress of the work.
Theorem XL Sccond Demonstration. The Scholium appended to this demonstration should have been embodied in it to make the conclusion valid. ‘ Theorem XVIII, Cor. L This Corollary makes us see the advantage of Euclid’s •method of never requiring a line to be drawn in the demonstration of a theorem, unless a previous problem has drawn it. In this theorem, how do we know that we can make “BE=AE”? Would A1J in all cases be a possible line?
Theorem XXII. If the triangles were both acuf&angled, the figure would take a different shape, and require a different demonstration.
Theorem XXIV. Half this theorem was proved long before—by Theorem IX
Theorem XLIL We do not know what Euclid would think of this helter-skelter algebraic fence jumping.
Book IL
Why should there be a Theorem for “ proportionals taken inversely,” and none for proportionals taken alternately ?
What principle guides our author in the assignment of his corollaries to his theorems and in deciding which shall be the corollaries and which the theorems ?
Why has he chosen the reductio ad absurdum for the demonstration of his Theorem XVII, when the direct method of proving this important and fundamental theorem is so much more concise, so much more elegant, and so far superior in every respect ?
Wherever he multiplies or divides (except by 2) equals by equals, he has not a geometrical axiom to stand upon.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Theorem XX. In proving this proposition he assumes that similar triangles have bases in proportion to their altitudes,—a truth which- we do not find previously demonstrated anywhere in the book.
Theorem XIV. Why introduce this everlasting rehash of the “ sum of the squares, <6c,” which was proved long before, and ought to be at re-1. It appears again, however, not only here but in the corollary to Theorem XVII, Book III.
Book III.
We have less fault to find with this book than with some of the others, though why the author should poke the Peak of Teneriffe up into the middle of the eighteenth proposition is more than I can pretend to account for.
The whole talk about the number o'f degrees, minutes and seconds in an angle, too, should be postponed to the treatise on Trigonometry.
Book IV.
As this book contains all the geometrical constructions given in the treatise, except the unsolved “ miscellaneous” at the end of the eighth, we think it should have been made a little more complete. As the square is the unit of superficial measurement, the pupil should be taught how:
To construct a triangle equivalent to any given polygon;
To construct a rectangle equivalent to'any given triangle; and
To construct a square equivalent to any given rectangle—so that he may see how every polygon may' be reduced to an equivalent square. After thus understanding what is meant by the quadrature of surfaces in general, he is better prepared for the celebrated problem of the quadrature of the circle, whose numerical solution is the principal subject of the following Book.
Problem XXX. This problem, from beginning to end, is ineffably absurd. “In a given circle to inscribe a regular polygon of any number of sides, and then to circumscribe the circle by a similar polygon." This would lead one to imagine that any regular polygon—a heptagon, for instance,—was possible as a geometrical construction, and that we were to learn how to construct it; whereas, all that is really done is “ To circumscribe about a circle a regular polygon similar to one already inscribed." After showing us not exactly how to do this, but how it looks after it is done, he maunders through two mortal pages to prove that the circumscribed polygon is similar to the inscribed one It is astonishing that having once proved the corollary to Theorem XXXIX, Book I, he will not use it when he wants it, but goes back to the theorem itself. This he does in the present demonstration and in Theorem III, Bo k III.
Book V.
Proposition I. It is bad enough to have to imagine a circle as made up of isosceles triangles, hut when it comes to making them right-angled triangles the idea of a jagged edge is unavoidable. If it were desired to find the area of a circular saw this theorem might do well enough.
Proposition III. Oar author seems never to have formed any notion of the importance of keeping the geometrical idea perfectly pure from all pollution of arithmetic. It is true, he is going to give the approximate numerical solution to the problem of the quadrature of the circle, and this theorem is intended as introductory to it; but making all allowances for the necessities of the case, there was no necessity of introducing such an absurdity as the “ numerical ” or any other kind of equality between a line and a surface..
Proposition VIII. "Why should this proposition be called a “ Theorem” and the VII a “ Problem ” ?
Eight propositions being apparently too little for a Book, the remainder is made up of problems in Mensuration. No doubt the pupil should learn to apply the principles he has acquired, but that is no excuse for filling up a manual that should contain nothing but pure geometry with practical applications such as any competent teacher can provide his class with at a moment’s notice, and which, found in this place, tend to confuse the learner’s notions of what geometry really is, in contradistinction to mensuration.
Book VL
As this book contains scarcely anything origi-inal, we may also say that it contains scarcely anything objectionable.
Book VII.
Theorem X. First demonstration. To use the “ method of exhaustions” except in cases of absolute necessity, is inexcusable.
Theorem XX. To deduce the measure of the convex surfaces of the cone and cylinder from that of the frustum of a cone, may shorten the book a little, but it is working from the complex to the more‘simple, which is the very opposite of the synthetic method.
Theorem XXVII, with its corollaries, should in mercy to the student, be divided into four at least, as it might easily be.
Theorem XXXIL—Scholium.—IVe beg to be informed what the author’s idea of a scholium is? Scholium, corollary, and theorem seem to be convertible terms with him.
The Recapitulation at the end of this Book is an affair of mensuration, not of geometry.
Book Vin.
It is a pretty good joke, after the prevailing character of the preceding books has been taken into consideration, to entitle this one “ Practical Geometry,” and under such a head to give us a farrago of general and particular numerical problems, jumbled together without order or system. The word “Miscellaneous” applied to the Geometrical Propositions which close the treatise, is admirably chosen, though how such a hash can constitute what is understood by a “ Book” of Geometry is more than I can understand.
Trigonometry.
The author has given his reason for putting the Book of Spherical Geometry in a novel situation. He has not given his reason, however, for mixing Analytical Trigonometry in with the rest. Of the reason given and the reason withheld we have about the same opinion.
But our ungracious office has been performed; and we are not sorry to bring these remarks to a close. Let those interested criticise us as freely and with the same good intentions as we have criticised this “ Geometry.” A J. Stace.
Since our last issue we have received letters from Very Rev. E. Sorin, announcing his safe arrival at Brest and Paris. According to all probabilities our next letter from him will be dated at Rome, where no doubt Very Rev. Father General is at present, with Rev. F. Pietro Battista, Procurator of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
Interesting letters about the General Council may be looked for by our readers.
The Certificates for Good Conduct and Improvement in Class will be awarded to the students before the Holidays. The Bulletins will be sent home next week.
For the “ Notre Dame Scholastic.’*
Chapter About; or, What is It t
BY GEMINI.
“ Two minds with but a single thought,— Two hearts that beat as one.”
CHAPTER V.
Mrs Toothpick Dismissed.—A new Compound, with its consequences Chemical and Matrimonial.—An invisible Lecturer.
It was my firm intention to have Flora Jemima Toothpick killed in this Chapter. I can’t do it. I therefore denounce her as an irrepressible conflict I couldn’t kill her in fifty Chapters Necare genus hoc, mimime autum occidi, natum est. Mos etenim timore deorum immortalium ipsaque na-tura drag ini talidior. This was the judgment of the philosophy that deified a Venus, concerning the no—gender monstrosities so well represented by the numeronsMrs. Toothpicksof these times. But since I can’t kill my heroine within a reasonable time or limit, I’ll give her the benefit of a few brief sentences, and then dismiss her, and pass on to other topics which I perceive await their turn for a passing nod.	*
On a former occasion the reader and I left Flora Jemima at the Convention, and the Doctor having charge of poor dear little Mag at home. Who or what poor dear little Mag was, and how the Doctor executed his trust, are points which may be gathered from the reading of so much of this my last chapter as thereunto belongs. I therefore proceed to say that Mrs. T. delivered her great speech at the said Convention, and thereat, and thereby covered herself with glory, by claiming for the sex she had abandoned everything but what belonged to it. At two o’clock in the morning, Mrs T. separated from the .other neutralities which came to hear and applaud at the Convention, and soon after she reached the house ornamented with the big sign of Timothy T. Toothpick. In one part of the house, and in one part only, was there a light. That light was in the Doctor’s laboratory. The Doctor was there too, pondering over the “ laws, effects, and operations of Chemical Affinity,” and almost as completely involved in wreaths and clouds of smoke, ascending from his chemical experiments, as were the immortal gods and goddesses in celestial mists, when they took it into their immortal heads to come down from lofty "Olympus and help the Greeks and Trojans to break each other’s heads around the walls of Ilium. Alas, poor Timothy T. Toothpick ! little didst thou imagine that the loving hand of Flora Jemima—her of the seven divorces —was so soon to give the world a chemical compound which thy dream of years and thy life of study had not been able to accomplish! Surely, it might be said with some truth, that man proposes some things, but woman disposes those same things. As the reward of a life devoted to the advancement of science, Dr. Toothpick proposed to himself the ownership of a new patent-right for having discovered a chemical compound that would astonish the human race-, and throw railroads, telegraphs, Atlantic cables, and all other inventions, possible or impossible, into the shade t But as the mighty oak that stood for ages on the mountain’s summit, and bade defiance to the angry elements, and scarcely bowed to the burri-canesand the whirlwinds, is rent into splinters in an instant by the merciless fury of the lightning,' so in the twinkling of an eye the almost—as he thought—realized work of three score years, was dashed to atoms, analyzed, reduced to its elemental condition. A tight grasp, a heavy pressure on the back of his neck, and the Doctor thought he had the nightmare! A tighter grasp, a heavier

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
J
!


0
pressure in the same place and the Doctor thought of Hamlet’s ghost! Three quick, instantaneous shakes, a cuff on the cheek, the stars flying from his eyes, and “ Oh,yon wretch!” ringing in his ears, and now the Doctor thought of Mrs. Toothpick! Fond memory might have brought the light of other days, and of other nights too, around him sooner. Whack! dash! crash! splash! jingle! jingle! jingle! and down come chairs, tables, shelves, lamps, jars, glass tubes and crucibles, with such a simultaneous rapidity that the Doctor, who lay gasping beneath, began to think that an earthqu ike had suddenly reduced our mundane planet into atoms, and that he himself was the bottom one of all that huge mass of chaotic confusion!
The amiable Mrs. T. thought differently however; and for that once the Doctor might thank his stars that his loving spouse knew so little about the art of durable button-sewing. If the buttons of his shirt collar had not quickly yielded to the " connubial clutch of Mrs. T., the Sieeptown press would have had to chronicle on the following morning the verdict of a coroner’s jury, to this effect: “ We the jury, after mature investigation of all the facts in the case, and after a searching examination of numerous witnesses, namely of Mrs. Fiora Jemimi Toothpick, the bereaved and inconsolable relict of the deceased, do solemnly record it as our verdict that our late worthy and renowned scientific fellow citizen, Timothy T. Toothpick M D., Ph., and S. G., came to his lamented death by suffocation; said suffocation, in our opinion, being caused by mysterious influences while the late lamented was engaged in his laboratory, in the prosecution of his wonderful theory. And we further solemnly find that the last moments of the said deceased were cheered and consoled by the feeling presence, as well as by the most striking demonstrations and the loudest possible screaming on the part of his patient and affectionate Flora Jemima, and that, when his spirit took wing for the starry realms, all that was earthly of the late lamented was found to be reposing calmly, though sadly, in the arms of her to whom he had sworn eternal fidelity on that auspicious day when he led her, in all the gush ing joy and blushing pride of youth and beauty, to the temple of Hymen.” This I say, might have been the verdict; but it wasn’t, because the ' buttons flew from the Doctor’s collar, and thereby hangs a tale which I may not unfold, but which certainly frustrated the loving ambition of Mrs. T. to be a conjugal heroine.
On the following day her angelic form was seen coming out of the office of a “ learned counsel,” and in a few hours thereafter the chancery docket of a divorce court had this case: “Flora Jemima Toothpick, vs. Timothy T. Toothpick.” Charge: “ Extreme and repeated cruelty.”
The Bill, wrapped up in the usual circumlocutory verbiage and deliberate falsehoods of an adroit pettifogger, was a master piece in its way: “ And your oratrix humbly complaining sheweth unto your honor, that she, since her marriage with ■the said Timothy T. Toothpick hath always behaved, demeaned, comported and conducted herself towards him as a chaste, loving, forbearing, devoted and affectionate spouse, but that on the contrary thereof, he, the said Timothy, wholly and entirely forgetting, disowning, ignoring, and dis regarding his marriage vows,, duties, covenants and obligations, hath been guilty of extreme and repeated cruelties towards your humble com plainant; that is to say, on divers days and times, to wit,” &c. The next paragraph in the Bill went on to state in classical language how “on
divers other days and times, to wit,” &c., the said Timothy went on a “spree” (!!) and how on such occasions he was in the habit of “ cutting up tricks,” and then crowned the enormity of his marital guilt by humbly showing how “on divers other days, to wit, &c., to wit, to your ora-trix’unknown,” the said Timothy “cruelly and brutally expelled poor dear little Mag out of his office,” notwithstanding that the said poor, dear little Mig was a sensitive and refined “ female dog” of the Pug family, and notwithstanding that he the said Timothy was well aware that the said poor, dear little Mag held the first and highest place in the affections of her “ your humble complainant, whose life has been rendered miserable, to wit, &c. Wherefore she prays right and justice, and that she may be divorced from the bonds of matrimony,” &c.
All the chemical ingenuity of the Doctor was unable to cope with the allegations in the Bill ; so Flora Jemima was once more enabled to make a practical vindication of Woman’s Rights, and to adopt anew her poetic patronymic, and thereunder to set out for the capture of her ninth lord of creation I
Thus far and no farther shall I go with Mrs. Toothpick. Not being a prophet, I can’t tell her future: and not having been able to kill her, as I had designed, I dismiss her -with all the grace and politeness that may be reasonably expected from an author whose ambition and pride are sorely wounded at his inability to crown his work with a single tragedy! In.commencing this story, it was my firm, and—let me humbly add—my laudable intention to have produced, a book which for biting sarcasm, literary eminence, and dramatic intensity would have compelled the most fastidious critic of coming generations to say of me what was said of another great man:
“ He left a name at which the world grew pale. To point a moral or adorn a tale!”
I know the world of critics will be little
dis-
posed to give me credit for such an humble and candid confession. "Well, no matter; I’ll bear it all in patience. It is enough for me to know that the saying of Solomon is still true. I’ll turn me now to the Young Men’s Christian Association, and in this connection it gives me unspeakable pleasure to be able to say that the Public whose interests came so near destruction on a late memorable occasion, shall be treated to another invisible lecture, by an invisible lecturer, at an invisible point, at some unknown time to be hereafter duly an-
nounced.
Pollux
P. S. This invisible performance will be sup plemented with the invisible side-splitting afterpiece: “He failed .to make connections.” The whole to conclude with a grand phosphorescent tableau, wherein Mr. Larry Doolan, as the central figure, with his celebrated opaque lamp for a calcium light, appears in the character of a Peripatetic Philosopher, expounding the mysteries of Lindley Murray to the Y. M C. A.
The Harvard, Advocate, it seems, can afford to laugh at typographical errors. It twits us with spelling “ genious (sic)" Let it take care how it mocks at its neighbors’ infirmities. Its own devil some day perhaps may have a “ sick spell,” or may become imbued with the conviction that since Genius owes so much to the Press, the Press might afford to o a little to Genius. That o is in-genious,
it must be acknowledged.
S.
Bro. Francis Xavier keeps a splendid assortment of choice pictures, etc., which might be purchased for Christmas gifts.
“Tlie Silver Jubilee.” ,
[From the Boston Pilot.]
Silver Jubilee of the University of Notre Dam?, June 23d 1869 Compiled and published by Joseph A. Lyons/A. M. Chicago: E. B Myera £ Co.
A book like this receives “a hundred thousand welcomes ” in our sanctum. The book is finely -got up, on tinted paper, and adorned with fine portraits and other illustrations. But it is to the contents that we give the welcome: and would that we had more such works presented to the public by our colleges. This Silver Jubilee will be treasured as a monument of Catholic history. The histpry of the College, the biographies of the professors and alumni, with so many other items and incidents, are" thus preserved. Why do not other colleges give us records like this ? Georgetown College has been in existence eighty-four years, and Mount St. Mary’s fifty-one. What a treasure of precious recollections 1 Yet what care is taken to preserve them ? Within few years the last links which bind this generation with the Carrolls and Dubois will be broken, and the future historian will be at a loss for data and facts. We hope accurate diaries are kept: but we know, of certain knowledge, that such is not the case in every institution. Of Notre Daine we can only say: Esto Perpetual
1
[From the St. Louis Times.]
The Uuiversily of Noire'Dame,
Silver Jubilee of the University of NoyRE Dame, June 23,1869. Compiled and published by Joseph A Lyons, A. XL Chicago: E. B. Myers & Co., 87 Washington street. 1869.
For the above elegant volume of two hundred and sixty-six' pages, a specimen of typographic and binder’s art seldom equaled, we are indebted to the courtesy of the compiler. It is not only a book of beauty however, illustrated by portraits of Very Rev. E. Sorin, founder of the University and Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Rev. "William Corby, President of the College, and of the Rev. Alexis Granger, S. S. C., Provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross, but it is a volume of rare interest and replete with information."
It contains in the first place a history of the University from its foundation, and a full description of its methods of instruction and discipline, followed by biographical sketches of its alumni, and closing with a very elaborate account of the Twenty-fifth Annual Commencement and Silver Jubilee, held on the 22d and 23d of June last, introducing at length the various exercises,o rations poems and addresses, incident to this interesting celebration.
Altogether it is the most entertaining volume of similar character and object which we have ever seen, and in its dedication conveys not only a kindly but most substantial tribute of respect “ To the Students of Notre D due, as a memorial of their college days and a' happy presage of days to come.”	‘
A suitable book for holiday presents.
The Exhibition of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society is postponed to the evening of the 21st inst. The St. Cecilians intend to surpass themselves on that night, and will be pleased to see the Hall crowded with their numerous friends. The programme of the Exibition will appear in our next, with the report of .the performance. The play “Bellarosa,” which was written for the Society, contains a cast of thirty-six characters.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
My Thanksgiving Speech.
[Graphically written by our reporter for the Scholastic, • as delivered on the 18th ultimo.}
Thanksgiving is exclusively an American holyday. No other nation in the world can boast - of such a day. It is the holyday of all holydays, and one of which the Yankee nation may well be proud, since its origin may be traced back to the founding of this glorious Republic of ours,—to that heroic band, the Pilgrim Fathers, who, after perilling the unknown dangers of the \ sea, landed at Plymouth Rock three hundred years ago. I repeat we may justly be proud of Thanksgiving Day, since it recalls to us that we, the quintessence of creation, are descended from the Pilgrim Fathers, the lovers of religious liberty.
To prove that we the descendants of the Pilgrim Fathers are the foremost people in all the world, is my aim in this speech. I do not anticipate much difficulty in showing clearly our superiority over all other nations, civilized, semicivilized or uncivilized. It is so evident in itself, and so generally admitted by Americans themselves, that it needs no proof. It is incomparably more evident than a geometrical axiom. But still, as there may be some benighted individuals or universal sceptics, I deliver this speech for their especial benefit. The Yankees are first in all great undertakings and vast plans, support the heaviest taxes, produce the greatest geniuses, either in war or in peace; in fine, to make the statement of their superiority short, they excel in everything,—from stealing horses, negroes, etc., and embezzling Uncle Sam’s money, to carrying on the finest government under the sun. Prove all'this, and the sceptic must believe; if he-does not, he doubts his own existence, is non compos mentis, and should be sent to Jacksonville, Ill., or some other asylum.	'
Let us first look at the genius of our great men. Where shall we find such evidence of mighty intellects as in the United States of America. ? The Dutch Gap Canal still remains, as a lasting monument of that brilliant conception of the Governor of New Orleans, to take a certain place in Virginia without the effusion of blood. For this, and several other brilliant ideas, the namE of the Governor shall be inscribed in golden letters in the pages of history, as that of one of those rare intellects combining the military genius of a great warrior with the administrative talents of a sapient legislator. The Governor is only one of the numbeiless proofs of American mental superiority.	.
Is there, can we find any nation whose great men have uttered such original and pithy expressions as those of Yankeedom—expressions indicating an immense deal of thought in a very few words? We have a living example. How pithily did our modern Ulysses report the demoralization of the Army: “The Army of the Potomac resembles a spavined horse!” Would we not search in vain to find another such sentence, unless from the same genius? Undoubtedly we would. Does it not go to show our superiority ? Beyond a doubt.
Clearly perceiving our military men tower above those of other nations, let us see if it is not the same with our statesmen. I need give but one instance to prove it is the same—the purchase of Alaska, the most sagacious ministerial act of the nineteenth century. What difference did it make to theprince of legislators if Alaska wereof so little value that Russia jumped with joy at the chance of disposing of it upon such liberal terms! What difference if Alaska was a barren and inhospita
ble country ! What odds, if the place were populated by only twenty-five Russians, a few thousand Esquimaux, and three or four hundred thousand walruses and polar bears! What, if it does add a few millions more every year to the national debt, thereby increasing taxes! No difference whatever. The great mind of our statesman is only made more evidently apparent. His sagacious intellect foresaw that by the acquisition of Alaska we would hem in British America both on the north and on the south. Hence, at no distant day, proud Albion’s Lion shall tremble with fear and draggle his tail in the dust before the American Eagle, while we shall reign triumphantly over all America. Can we doubt, after this, Yankee superiority? Again, the United States ourtanks all other nations in the grandeur and number of herphilanthropical schemes. You cannot pick out any small town in Massachusetts in which you will not find more such associations than there are in all Europe. You will find associations for the benefit of every country and of every description: from the one for the civilization and general amelioration of the benighted Hottentots, or for the education and equalization of our colored brethren who fought nobly during our past memorable struggle, to the one for the relief and republicanization of the despot-ridden inhabitants of Europe. Does it not show our greatness ? All these things stamp us as a great nation, a nation of geniuses in which there are no ordinary persons—in fact no one who cannot deliver a stump speech.
Moreover, we are an inventive people. The newspapers of the day teem with numberless and certain cures of consumption, bunions and corns, and with improvements upon the Atlantic telegraph.
I had almost forgotten ’that since we live under a republic we necessarily know more, do-more, and are a deuced sight better off than the unfortunate, down-trodden, oppressed inhabitants of Europe who obey the behests and caprice of a king or an emperor. It is a mark of inward nobility and superiority when a man governs himself and does not suffer anyone else to do it for him. Likewise, people governing themselves are superior to those who obey a king. Now each American, so to speak, runs the American Republic since every citizen by his privilege of voting has a voice in directing the affairs of the government. Hence the obvious conclusion of our superiority. What odds if the majority of the voters do not know for what they are voting or what they want ? What difference if a vote can be bought for a drink of whisky? Even if the masses are deceived, and led by the nose by a few artful demagogues, does it injure our boasted superiority? Not at all. According to my proposition the American people, since they govern themselves— although they are dt ceived and fooled by a few sharp political tricksters,—are by far the superiors of those who are wisely governed under a monarchical form of government.
Having thus proved that we are the foremost nation under t he sun, the question naturally arises: What shall be the future destiny of this grand Republic, but ninety years in existence, overshadowing whose vast domains the mighty American eagle, with his left wing brushing the shore of the vast Pacific on the north west—and his right dipping into the briny waters of the almost unfathomable, limitless Atlantic on the east, gazes fiercely and savagely at British America on the north, all the while flapping his tail in defiance at Mexico and South America on the south. What is, I repeat, the destiny of this mighty
bird ? Let the approaching knell of Europe and Asia answer. A few years more and. over the broad land of those continents the mighty wings of the American eagle shall be spread.
Such is the glorious destiny of the United States. Her glory shall be transmitted from generation to generation through countless ages, and so-her greatness shall be attributed to the tax of a penny a pound upon tea, imposed upon the observers of Thanksgiving in 1775.
For the “Notre Dame Scholastic.”
“ Mr Bonner, of the New York Ledger, paid out <30,000 to the newspapers for publishing the first chapter of k The Broken Home,* as an advertide^lent.,’—Begiater.
All well enough for such a one as Bonner; but how as to the honesty of the “ newspapers,” who not only take up with advertisements the space due to their readers, but grossly deceive these same simple readers by palming off as a short story this miserable fragment of Bonner’s!
For our part, this does not strike us as fair dealing between publisher and subscriber, even if the New York sensationalist does bribe the “newspapers” to the tune of $20,000.
It certainly must have been a qualm of conscience that induced any of the “ newspapers,” to refer to that advertisement, thus publishing their own shame by way of repentance. At least we will charitably presume so, and therefore here record our own forgiveness, provided they will be good boys and not do so any more.
Harper’s Weekly.
A somewhat noted paper under the above heading, with the subtitle, A Journal of Civilization, is published in New York. It boasts of an immense circulation, and truly, for there is hardly a hamlet in the Union in which it may not be found. But why it should be called a Journal of Civilization is a question hard to answer, as a reference to the No. for November 27th readily shows. As soon think of Nasby as a teacher of politeness, as look in a paper that publishes, and by publishing indorses, such low scurrility and ribald buffoonery, for evidence of that good breedihg and sense of honor which should characterize a Journal of Civilization. We can safely say that any Catholic who would, after that evidence of blackguardism on the part of the managers of Harper's Weekly, give them countenance so far as to advance ten cents for a copy of it, is not a true, honorable Catholic—not a true honorable man. If he takes the paper, he truly deserves to be insulted. It is not the first, and not likely to be the last effort of the Journal in question to heap ridicule on the Holy Father, and through him to insult the whole Catholic world. Of course, when the Catholic priesthood or Catholic journals attempt to denounce such ribaldry, the cry is raised at once that they wish to restrain discussion, to keep the people downtrodden under their heel, and to prevent them from learning the two sides of the question. ■ But when a man’s honor is in question, or his mother’s reputation at stake, is he expected .to sit down quietly, cast up the account for and agaiust himself, and when he strikes the balance, coolly take his revenge in just proportion to the truth o*f the charge against him ! Is he to be charged with shutting off .discussion and refusing to investigate truth, because with the generous impulse of his manhood he strikes at once for his honor, and with all the strength of his nature defends the fair fame of his mother?— Catholic Tdegraph.	-
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
^otre ^ame Scholastic.
PUBLISHED SEMI-MONTHLY
AT NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
CASTOR, POLLUX, and AUDITOR ....Editors.
TERMS: Ono year.........................................$2	00
Five months..........•........................... 1	00
Clubs of fire, in the University, one year......	1 00
Single copies...................................   5
The Notre Dame Scholastic can be obtained at the Stu* dents'* office.
Arrival of Students.
CONTINUED FBOM LAST NUMBER.
3Iajor G. Harris, Henry Clark, Michael S. Walsh, James Donahoe, James Dixon, Thomas Ward, James McCabe, James Farrell, James Dwyer, Jeremiah Mulvcny, Martin O’Day, Joseph Deehan, Richard Costello, William Hughes, P. Hennessy, Edward O’Regan, J. R. Boyd, James. P. Kane, W. F. Ray,
Sturgis, Mich. Lafayette, Ind. Vincennes, Ind. Memphis, Tenn. Marysburg, Minn. Philadelphia, Pa. Columbus, Ohio. Washington, D. C. Ottawa, III.
Philadelphia, Pa. New Dublin, Ind. Philadelphia, Pa.
Morris, Hl. Peoria, Hl.
South Bend, Ind. South Bend, Ind. Paducah, Ky.
Ypsilanti, Mich. Indianapolis, Ind.
Table of Honor.
Senior Department.
Nov. 2G.—T. Stratton, J. McGlynn, A W. Arrington, W- E. Roberts, J. Thiel, J. F. Edwards, P. Hohler, F. Bodeman, W. Waldo, D. Tighe.
Dec. 3.—S. B. Rowland, J. Eisenman, T. Murphy, J. E. Shannahan, J. Wilson, H. Wrape, L. Wilson, C. Ilgenfritz, E. B. Walker, D. A. Clarke.
Junior Department.
Nov. 26.—F. Kaiser, P. Cochrane, D. Egan, E. Ottenville, L. Hibben, R. L. Long, J. Kilcoin, M. Brannock, D. Brown, T. McNamara, S. LeGault.
Dec. 3.—W. Dodge, J. Sutherland, J. McFarland, J. Klein, C. Walter, W. Fletcher, J. Taylor, J. W. Wilstach, P. Reilly, A. Barth, L. Hilsende-gen.
Minim Department.
Nov. 19th.—H. Trentman, C. Clark, G. Berry, A Armstrong, S. Hopkins, D. Harnette.
Dec. 4.—M. Smith, M. Wison, J. O’Hara, C. Carey, H. Jones, F. Butters.
Honorable Mention.
. ...	t
Philosophia Moralis.—W. Waldo, G. Atkinson.
First Latin.—Theme: W. Waldo, AAV. Arrington, J. E. Garrity. Translation: A W. Arrington, W. Waldo, J. E. Garrity, R. McCarty, D. Tighe, G. M Atkinson.
Second Latin.—Theme: _J^ahm, 31. Mahony. Translation: J. Zahm, T. Johnson, J. Dickinson, J McClain, J. Edwards. Prosody: J. Zahm, M. Mahony. Mythology: J. Edwards.
. Third Latin.—J. Dickinson, J. E. Shannahan.
Fourth Latin.—J. Robinson, E. B. Gambee, D. Egan, J. McGlynn, T. Watson; P. Cochrane.
. Fifth Latin.—3L Carney, J. Eisenman, D. Hogan, F. Kaiser, J. Nash.
Sixth Latin.—J. Gearin, L. B. Logan, H. Bar-low, M. Nolan, C. Walter, J. Walsh, F. Bodeman. J. Hogan.
Seventh Latin.—J. McGinnity, H. Goddard, N. Mitchell, C. Dodge, S. Dum, W. Dodge, S. Rowland, J. Thiel, E. W. McFarland.
Eighth Latin.—R. M. Robinson, W. H. Turner, J. W. Wilstach, H. Hayes, J. Shanks, F. Witte.
First Greek.—J. B. McClain, JI. Mahony.
Second Greek.—W. Waldo, J. E. Garrity, T.
Johnson.	•	z
Third Greek.—J. Zahm, E. B. Gambee.
Fourth Greek.—J. Dickinson, T. Watson.
Fifth Greek.—A. W. Arrington, J. Edwards. J. Nash, D. Egan, D. J. Hogan, F. Dwyer, J. E. Shannahan.
First German, Sr.—D. Clarke, J. Wilson, F. Kaiser, J._ McGuire, C. Duffy, N. Mitchell, P. Cochrane.
First German, Jr.—J. Rumely, J. Staley, B. J. Vogt, O. Baker, A. Hoerber, W. S. Mayer, G. Hug, H. Hug, J. Beuhler, C. Vinson, J. Wey, A. Thaler, L. Hilsendegen, J. Klein.
Second German, Sr.—D. Egan, T. H. Dillon, J. A. Fox, R. Robinson, T. IL Grier, C. Hutchings, S. B. Rowland, D. Fitzgerald.
Second German, Jr.—F. Karst, C. Berdel, C. Walter, J. C. Doherty, R. Delahay, W. P. Nelson, F. Obert.
Third German, Sr.—H. Goddard, J. Leunig, F. Bodeman, B. Mathers, J. Lacey, J. Robinson, J. E. Shannahan, J. Broderick, W. K. Roy, L. Gibson.
ThirdGerman, Jr.—S. LeGault, C. Dodge, W. H. White, W. Dodge, J. Walsh, H. Potter, J. Hannaher, T. McNamara, Z. Vanderveer, W. B. Clarke, H. Ackhoff, E. Shea.
First French.—J. Gearin, F. Dwyer, M. Mahony.
Second French.—J. Robinson, W. Ryan, G. * Irish Class.—J. Garrity, D. Tighe, J. McGlynn. Brewning, W. Clarke, L. Me Arthur.
English Literature.—T. Johnson, J. E. Shannahan, J. Eisenman, J. Garrity, J. Zahm, L. B. Logan, H. Wrape, EL P. Morancy, H Barlow.
Rhetoric.—T. F. Heery, E. B. Walker, E. B. Gambbe, F. Kaiser, D. Egan, C. EL Ilgenfritz, J. Wilson, W. B. Clarke, J. M. Duffy, E. Fitzharris.
First Grammar.—Composition: P. Rhodes, W. K. Roy, J. A Fox, T. H. Grier, T. Dillon, F. P. Dwyer, L. Wilson, J. Walsh, H. Goddard, M. Carney, W. H. Murphy, J. Nash, C. Marantette, J. McGlynn, Jos. Mulhall, D. J. Brown, J. Dooley. Analysis: J. A Fox, J. Walsh, H. Goddard, T. H. Grier, T. Lappin, P. Rhodes, W. K. Roy, D. J. Brown, L. Wilson, F. P. Dwyer, M. Carney, W. H. Murphy, T. Dillon, J. Nash, H. Hayes, H. Graves, J. Dooley, G. Hatchett. Descriptive Composition: P. Rhodes.
Second Grammar.—Recitation : J. McGinnity, N. Mitchell, S. Rowland, J. Leunig, C. Clarke, R. M. Robinson, W. Roberts, H. H. Owen, J. Can-ovan, C. Hutchings, G. Holeman, B. Mathers, R. B. Coddington. Composition: F. L. Gregg, N. Mitchell, J. Weldon, C. Clarke, R. M. Robinson, J. Leunig, J. McGinnity.
Third Grammar.—P. Hohler, W. C. Hunt, S. D. Morrison, O. H. Bell, L. Trudell, T. Murphy, D. Harding, R. Long, P. O’Connell..
Fourth Grammar.—A Mooney, E. Mullen, J. Roberts, W. Keilly.
Fifth Grammar.—L. Watson, P. Davis, R. Metzger, T. Armstrong E. Jamison, J. Murphy. F. Morris, D. GitchelL
Second Grammar, Jr.—K. Espy, S. McArthur, J. Rumely, C. Morgan, J. Doherty, J. Thomson, W. Trussell. .
Third Grammar, Jr.—J. Antoine, M. Fitzger
ald, W. Odendahl, L. McArthur, R. Delahay, J. Taylor, H. Ackhoff, J. W. Murphy.
Fourth Grammar, Jr.—W. Fletcher, J, Echlin, F. Obert, A Barth, W. Mayer, J. Goodhue, J, Glynn, W. Canavan, W. Browning, R. Hutchings, W. P. Nelson.
Fifth Grammar.—W. Dolamore, L. Hibben, G. Summers, L. Steward, R. Smily, E. Meussel, V. McKinnon, J. McCall, A Hoerber, E. Ottenville, J. Kenrick.
Elocution, Sr.—A W. Arrington, L. B. Logan, J. . A Fox, G. McAtkinson, J. Wilson, L. Wilson, T. Dillon, H. P. Morancy, T. Watson, J. McGinnity. J. Ryan, W. C. Hunt, L. Trudell, John Mulhall, R. B. Coddington, M. Carney, P. Hohler. All the members of this large Class deserve credit for great attention and earnestness.
First Reading.—E. Sweeney, W. G. Whittle, J. McMahon, T. Armstrong, P. Ryan.
First Rhetorical Reading and Elocution, Jr.— H. Hayes. L. Marshall, L. McArthur, L. Boyles, W. Taylor, 0 Baker, W. Gross, H. Graves, W. Fletcher, T. Burns, E. Lyons, M. Moriarty, J. McFarland, J. Kilcoin, W. H. White, G. Breu-nig, A. Barth, C. Vinson, J. Taylor, W. E. Kellogg, L A Roth, C. Morgan, J. Goodhue, G. Lyons, J. Rumely, J. Klein, B. F. Roberts, J. Hannaher,-F. S. Karst, J. P. Way, P. Mulhall, J. Shanks, J. Thomson, J. Antoine, P. P. Reilly, E. Schuster, B. Luhn.
Elocution, Jr.—C Burdell.H. O'Neil, L. Hayes, H. Hayes, L. Boyles, W. Taylor, P. P. Reilly, B. F. Roberts, 0. Baker, 'W. Gross, L. A. Roth, J. Kilcoin, ,G. Breuuig, L McArthur, C. Morgan, J. Goodhue, E. Lyons.
Third Reading, Jr.—J. Echlin, G. Green, M. Healy, E. Goffinet, L. McKernan, W. Mulhall, L. H. Steward.
First Orthography.—J. Campbell, R. Carton, T. Meehan, S. Morrison, J. Orff, W. P. Patton, J. Roberts, R. Robinson, W. Rooney, S. Rowland, A Stevens, T. Stratton, L. Trudell, E. Woolman.
Second Orthography.—Jos. Mulhall, B. L. Morgan, L. B. Maguire, E. B. Jamison, J. Hand, J. McK. Murphy, J. S. McCallister, J. McMahon, P. Davis, W. Carson, P. Federspiel, T. Armstrong, C. Goetter.
First Orthography, Jr.—T. Foley, H. Ackhoff, J. C. Doherty, L. McArthur, W. Kellogg, W. Trussell, C. Forestal, J. Buehler, F.- Karst, T. Burns, H. Potter, W. Odendahl, J. Taylor, C. Jevne, 0. B. Saiter, G. G. Green, L. Boyles, J. Glynn.
Second Orthography, Jr.—J. Antoine, C. Vinson, 31. 3felancon, W. Browning, R. Echlin, J Echlin, W. Fitzgerald.
Second Orthography, Jr.—31. Fitzgerald, H. Taylor, J. Kenrick, L. Hibben.
First Reading and Orthography, 3Iinim.—3L Smith, G. J. Gross, E. Haydel, G. Berry, H. Jones, 31. Weldon, F. Hunt, C. Carey, W. Byrne, J. O’Hara, E. De Groot, E. Forester.
Second Reading and Orthography, 3Iinim.— H. Trentman, F. Butters, J. Frank, P. Dolamore, 0. Tong.
Third Reading and Orthography, 3finim.—W. Haney, J. 3IcDermott, D. Hartnett, C. Tarble, E. Dwyer, 31. Wilson, S. W. Hopkins.
Fourth Reading and Orthography.—G. Dwyer, R. Doherty, A Armstrong, F. Hoover.
Subscriptions to the Xcw Church.
3Ir. John O’3Ieara, Cincinnati, Ohio...$50 00
3Irs. Rose 3Iitchell, Davenport, Iowa... .50 00
NOTRE
SCHOLASTIC.
, aa
How the Chronicle can say that the University I An Edifying Sight.—A truly beautiful sight of Michigan is not richly endowed is more than it is to witness nearly all the Catholic students
we can understand. It is true there are other institutions of far inferior merit whose endowments are greater; but it seems to us that a University with an income “originally estimated at from fifty to seventy thousand dollars” is pretty well endowed. AVe only wish that Notre Dame were as well provided for.
By the way, while the regents of the University of Michigan are searching for a president, why do they not turn their attention to the Founder? Does the bigotry which banished the grand old “Chancellor” still keep him away; or is that august body of regents loth to confess its narrow spirit in depriving the University of a man whose breadth and dignity of mind were commensurate with tire noble proportions of the institution to which he gave life and form? If the University of Michigan has quite forgotten Dr. Tappan, then indeed may we better understand the insinuations of those who seem to think that she is no longer advancing in that splendid career which has placed her, though still young, among the foremost universities of America. '
Here and There.
The Weather.—Gruff old Winter has at last commenced his reign in earnest, causing us to experience again his cold, piercing breath. Within the past two weeks we' have had the severest weather of the season so far, yet we must anticipate worse ere Spring blossoms make their appearance.
Skating.—The campaign was commenced with great vigor on Sunday, the 28th ult., on a large pond not far distant from the College, known as Ryan’s Pond. The recent cold snap had produced quite a thick rind of ice of a very good quality. Our lakes are still open, but it will not be long before we shall have the pleasure of see: ing two hundred or more skaters gliding over their frozen surfaces.
Bishop Luers.—Our good Bishop spent a few days of last week amongst us. He is apparently in very good health. At the earnest request of the students, the Bishop granted recreation on Thursday afternoon, Dec. 2d, which was very generally enjoyed in skating on the above-mentioned pond.
A Beautiful Statue.—A fine statue of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart was blessed on Wednesday last, the Feast of the Immaculate Conception. It is a very large statue, and occupies a conspicuous position .in the church of the Sacred Heart, being situated above and behind the main altar.
A general meeting of the old students of Notre Dame is talked of as probable to take place at the next Commencement. If so, the June exhibition of 1870 will throw in the shade all the preceding ones.
A meeting of the resident Alumni is to be called next week.
The St. Aloyisus and St. Edwards Literary Associations are making preparations for the literary soiree of the 11th prox.
The steam heating apparatus of the University buildings was thoroughly overhauled last week by Mr. F. J. Obert, of Reading, Pa. We can only say that this skillful mechanic has doubled the power of the boilers, and engineered their repairs in a very satisfactory and speedy manner.
congregated in the college chapel each Saturday morning, assisting with devout hearts at the august Sacrifice of the Mass, and afterwards with bowed heads, reverently receiving the benediction of the Blessed Sacrament.
Cabinet of Natural History.—Through the skill and untiring exertions of Rev. Father Carrier, Curator of the Museum, this Cabinet contains numerous fine specimens, selected from the wide domains of nature’s three kingdoms. The Rev. Curator during the past season made an addition of a collection of various kinds of plants, in which we distinctly see the embryo of a future conservatory.
A Deserved Compliment.—Through the instrumentality of Brother Alban, Prefect in the Senior Department, an oyster supper was served, week before last, to the members of the Students’ Orchestra, in consideration of their kindness in furnishing such excellent music for the edification of the dancing portion of the students.
A Muskrat (?)—It is said witn more dr less truthfulness, that certain persons lose the power of discriminating between objects after a certain hour of the day. "We believe, however, it was not yet 4 o’clock P. M. when a certain young gentleman was observed expending his powder and shot, and tasking his aiming powers to their utmost in endeavoring to kill, as he supposed, a muskrat. But imagine his feelings when he discovered that it was only a harmless piece of decaying wood which he was “ salting and peppering” so vigorously.
Oysters.—On Friday, the 3d inst., the students of the University were treated to a dish not very often served to so great a number;—we have reference to oysters. It would indeed be a gross falsehood to say that they were not generally relished, for they were, and we have the best of proof for it in the fatigue of the waiters at the end of the meal.
The departure of the students for the Christmas Holidays will begin on the 22d inst. Their return to the University is fixed for the 4th of January. Students arriving later will be required to bring a letter from their parents or guardians authorizing the further delay.
During the Christmas Holidays the Thespian Society will give an exhibition consisting of the plays “ Handy Andy” and “The original John' Smith,” music etc.
The Minims return their sincere thanks to the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society, and to Rev. F. Carrier, also to Professors Baasen, Tong, Stace and Von Weller, for respective donations of books to their Library. Brother Celestine of the students’ office also deserves their acknowledgment, for many little favors.	•
St. Aloysius Phiiodemie Association,
Mr. Editor:—The ninth regular meeting of this Association was held on Tuesday evening, Dec. 7th. After the business of the Society had been transacted, the question,
'•Resolved, That Capital Punishment should be Abolished,” was debated.
Mr. J. Gearinv the first gentleman on the affirmative, after having stated the question, introduced it in a very clear and concise manner. He brought forward several arguments in defence of his side of the question; and the manner in which he treated it showed careful and deliberate preparation.
Mr. T. Johnson, the first on the negative, then took the stand. He quoted the opinions of several authors on this subject, and also refuted some of the arguments of his opponent.
Mr. It L. Akin then arose and entertained the Society with a very interesting speech. He treated the subject in a manner highly creditable to himself, and also refuted some of the principal arguments brought forward by the negative.
Mr. J. McClain, the last gentleman on the negative, handled the subject in a very skillful manner. He supported his colleague by several strong arguments, refuting also some of those brought forward by the negative.
Mr. Gearin then reviewed the arguments of the negative, and refuted some of the most important, after which the President summed up the arguments brought forward on both sides, and decided in favor of the affirmative.
The manner in which the debate was carried on made it unusually interesting. All who took part in it were well prepared and seemed to have a fair understanding of the subject.
The Philodemics ’seem to take great interest, in the affairs of the Society, and are determined • to make their weekly meetings, more than here-\ tofore, a source of entertainment and instruction. J
J. H. Zahm, Cor. Sec’y. ■
St. Edward’s Literary Association.
SEVENTH REGULAR MEETING.
The usual preliminary business being transacted, the exercises of the evening were opened by the reading of the criticism of Mr. D. Tighe, critic of the last meeting. Mr. Tighe, with his usual quick discernment, had taken notice of the faults and errors that were made in the style and manner of delivery of the different members of the debate of the previous evening, and, after dwelling on these, pointed out concisely the improvements that could be made in regard to each. Having given us all some useful hints, Mr. Tighe descended from the stand, and was succeeded by Mr. Shannahan who read a very beautiful and interesting essay entitled “ Reflections on the Passing Year.” To attempt to give your readers any idea of the beauties of this composition would be- , a failure oqmy part, so I can only hope they may have a chance of appreciating them, by perusing the “ Reflections” in your columns at no very distant day. Mr. Shannahan’s productions are always characterized by the easy and graceful flow of his ideas and the elegance of his language, and for beauty and true gracefulness of style, I think he holds the highest rank among the students. Mr-A. Arrington, being next on the list of the evening’s “ entertainers,” occupied the stand and read a humorousessayentitled “TheSupeiiority of the Yankee nation over all other nations.” He succeeded in keeping his auditors in a continual state of laughter during his reading, and retired amid the applause of the whole society. Mr. Arrington has quite a fund of ridiculous sarcasm, and as a humorous writer he is a “ success.” Mr. J. C. Garrity read a very fine essay on “ The Comparison of the two philosophers, Socrates and Seneca.” This essay was very entertaining and imparted to “we youngsters” quite an additional amount of knowledge concerning those great men. Mr. Garrity is possessed of fine powers of composition, and has a clear and concise style of putting forth his ideas clothed in a plain but elegant dress. Through selfish motives I hope Mr. Garrity will be appointed often as “ Essayist.” Mr. Barlow
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
followed Mr. Garrity with an essay entitled “ Contraries.” This gentleman set forth in well-chosen and choice language the varieties in the character of humanity; he cited as examples the lives of many celebrated men, and exhibited the contrarieties of their nature, proving quite conclusively that “men are not what they seem.” His composition was tinged with a certain drollery which was the occasion of more than one smile; it was also quite interesting, and the only comment I heard made upon it, was, “ too short.” Mr. D. Tighe closed the essays of the evening. “ Christianity before its Triumph” was listened to very attentively. Mr. Tighe possesses a great knowledge of Church Histoiy, and he put it forth in a very pleasing manner. After the applause which Mr. Tighe received had died away, having yet some minutes before the hour of adjournment, Mr. L. Logan complied with the desires of the Society, and read with great spirit “ Spartacus to the Roman Envoys in Etruria.” Mr. Logan enjoys the reputation of being the finest reader in the Society, and whenever we desire a treat (which is quite often) we call upon him, and he always very kindly complies with our request. Mr. Shannahan wound up the exercises of the evening by an extemporaneous speech, which was hailed with laughter and applause. After a few remarks from our Rev. President, expressive of the pleasure he derived from the evening’s entertainment, the members adjourned. Eevery one enjoyed the evening, and it is the general opinion that it was the most entertaining of the year, at least such is the opinion of the
Krtttk.
St. Cecilia Philomatlican Association.
The members of this Society have been holding their meetings regularly. At the 13th meeting, held Nov. 29th, Masters R. Long, J. Kilcoin, and F. Witte presented themselves for membership. After having read their essays they were unanimously elected. “The O’Kavanagh,” delivered by Master H. O’Neil, was the best declamation of the evening.
The 14th meeting was held Dec. 5th. Professor C. A B. Von Weller, F. R. A, read a play entitled “ Bellarosa,” which will be performed some time before Christmas. After the coming exhibition I will give the readers of the Scholastic a full account of the exercises, etc., of this Society. I take great pleasure in saying that the Society is well organized being 36 “ strong.”
W. B. Clarke, Cot. Sec.
.Arrivals.
-Miss M. Lang, “ A Adams, “ N. Burridge,
Red River Landing, La.
Marshall, Mich.
Benton Harbor, Mich.
Table of Honor.
Senior Department—Nov. 18th. .
Misses M. Cook, M. Warren, C. Heckmann, B. 'Leonard, M. Tuberty, A Mast, M. Cochrane, K. Zell, M. Doty, N. Carpenter, C. Hoerber, R. Hoer-ber.	.
Honorable Mention.
Graduating Class.—Misses A Mulhall, A. Carmody, A Ewing, E. Ewing, G. Arrington, A
Cunnea, C. Bertrand, E. Longsdorf, E. Kirwin, S. Price. 1st. Sr. Class.—E. Linsday, H. Niel, B. O’Neil, F. Mesmore, A. Rhinehart, K. Carpenter, C. Foote, M.'Edwards, M. Kirwin, J. Billings, M. Beam, A Locke. 2d Sr. Class.—M. Dillon, M. Warren, B. Heckmann, M. Sherland, J. Hogue, M. Kellogg, J. Forbes, K. Parks, E. Horton, T. Sweig-man, M. Murphy, 3L Blanger. 3d Sr. Class.— Misses A Mast, M. Cochrane, M. Foote, J. Ken-sella, S. Sarber, J. D’Arcy, K. O’Toole, M. O’Toole, M. Doty, J. Walker, E. Hunter, K. Robinson, A Jennings, T. Qhaly, A. Unruh, K. Zell, IL Bahm, L. Hoyt.	•
First Preparatory Class.—Misses V. Leoni, J. Leoni, C. Grannis, A Montgomery, B. Smith, R. Moore, N. Carpenter, A Schollard, S. Carver, F. Sharp, C. Shgrp, A Holman, M. Curtis, E. Tib-bits, M. Ford.
Second Preparatory Class.—Misses A. Mathers, C. and R. Hoerber, E. Whitfield, J. Wilder, M. Letourneau, J. Davis, M. Wicker, M. Stocker, J. Falvey, R. Nelson.
Third Preparatory Class.—Misses M. Landgraff, A Hayes, E. Price, M Coffey, ML Lacy, L. Coles, L. Pierce, D. Jennings, L. McFarland.
Oil Painting.—Miss M. Cook.	,
Water Colors—First Class.—Misses C. Heckman, EL Robinson, L. Martin, E. Henry, E. Kirwin, A Robson.
Drawing from Casts.—Miss A. Ewing.
Drawing.—Misses E. Horton, A Unruh, M. Curtis, M. Dillon, li Marshall, B. Gardner, A Woods, M. Beam, M. Murphy, M. Lasson.
French. '
Misses A Mulhall, C. Bertrand, M. Doty, M. Cook, A Cunnea, K. McMahon. 2d Div.—Misses M. Quan, A Clarke, B. OJNeil, K. Robinson. 2d Class.—Misses L. Marshall, B. Leonard. 2d Div. —Misses L. English, E. Linsday.
German.
First Class.—Miss M. Cook. Second Class.— Misses M. Kreutzer, L. English.
Instrumental Music.
Misses C. Foote, A. Mulhall. 2d Div.—Misses IL Kirwin, B. Leonard, J. Walker. Second Class. —Misses A. Montgomery, A Ewing, L. English, E. Plamondon. 2d Div.—M. Edwards, EL Carpenter, N. Carpenter, K. Parks. Third Class.—Misses M. Lasson, E. Kirwin, G. Hurst, C. Sharp, M. Foote, A Carmody, B. Bryan. 2d Div.—Misses S. Price, B. O’Neil, J. D’Arcy, 3L Clarke. Fourth Class.—Misses L. Davis, M Tuberty, E. Hunter. 2d. Div.—J. Warren, E. Whitfield, L. James. Fifth Class.—Misses A Rhinehart, J. Forbes. Sixth Class.—B. Cable, A Hoerber, M. Landgraff. Seventh Class.—Misses M. Beam, V. Leoni, J. Dooley, L. Marshall, A Jennings, F. Woolman. Eighth Class.—A Garrity, A McKinnon.
Theoretical Class.—E. Ewing,( E. Horton, H. Niel, K. Parks, C. Foote, A Ewing, L. Kellogg, R. Fox, E. Kirwin, L. Davis.
Exercises.—A Carmody, J. Walker, L. English, A Montgomery, IL Sherland.	‘
On the 25 th of November, the first Musical SoirGe of the present scholastic term came off with great success.
Among the visitors present, were several accomplished musicians and able critics, whose apparent satisfaction gave great encouragement to amateur performers.
We give below the programme of the evening:
Opening Chorus—(Trovatore)......Vocal Class
Piano Solo—(Chapin).............M. Sherland
Vocal Solo—(Messiah)............B. Leonard
Piano Solo—(Ascher)...............M. Kirwin
Vocal Duet—(Glover).........A and E. Ewing
Vocal Solo—(Abt)-.........-.......L. Martin
Chorus—(Rossini).........Private Vocal Class
Piano Solo—(Cramer)............. . ,C. Foote
Vocal Solo—(Gounod)................M. Wood
r G. Arrington
Quartette—(Rossini)........| Vwood
’	( . B. Leonard
Sonata—(Beethoven).............F. Arrington
Vocal Solo—(Wallace)............F.	Mesmore
Closing Chorus—(P. King)... .Gen’l Vocal Class
Table of Honor.
Senior Department.
Misses J. Hogue, E. Hunter, M. Lasson, C. Grannis; C. Sharp, F. Sharp, M. Curtis, K. Nelson, M. Landgraff, E. Price, L. Entsler, M. Clarke.
Honorable Mention.
Graduating .Class.—Misses A Mulhall, A. and E. Ewing, G. Arrington, A Cunnea, M. Cook, E. Longsdorf, E. Kirwin, A Carmody, C. Bertrand, 1st Sr. Class.—Misses E. Linsday, H. Niel, B. O’Neil, M. Edwards, M. Kirwin, F. Mesmore A Rhinehart, K. Carpenter, C. Foote, S. Price,. S. Beam, A Locke. 2d Sr. Class.—Misses M. Dillon, M. Tuberty, L. Marshall, E. Henry, M. Sherland, M. Kellogg, K. Parks, S. O’Brien. 3d Sr. Class.— Misses A Mist, M. Corcoran, M. Foote, G. Hurst, J. Kcnsella, E. Sarber, J. D’Arjy, K. and M. O’Toole, M.Doty, J. Walker, J. Wade, F. Holman, KL Robinson, A Jennings, L. Qhaly, EL Zell, M. Bahm, L. Hoyt, M. Lang.
First Preparatory Class.—Misses E. Tibbits, M. Ford, J. Dooley, A. Holman, S. Carver, A Schollard, N. Carpenter, K. Moore, P. Smith, A Montgomery, L. Martin, R. and V. Leoni.
Second Preparatory Class.—Misses M. Stocker, J. Davis, F. and R. Fox, J. Falvey, R. Hoerber, C. Hoerber, A. Macher.
Third Preparatory Class.—Misses E. Jening, ML Pierce, S. Roach, E. Price, M. Hays, M. Lacy.
The members of the St. Agnes Literary Society held their annual election on the 1st inst., the result of the ballot is as follows:
President—Miss Annie Clarke, Vice President—Miss Lizzie Niel, Treasurer—Miss Lizzie Thomson, Secretary—Miss Nellie Gross, Librarian—Miss Minnie Quan.	■
The -above-named Society is formed in the Junior Department. The course of reading is both instructive and entertaining. The works selected are such as tend to elevate the mind of the young and create a healty taste for literature; thus providing them with a remedy against idleness and frivolity.
Table of Honor.
Junior Department.—Nov. 24th.
L. Niel R. Leoni, M. and J. Kearney, M. Kreutzer, M. Walker, L Davis, K. and M. Hutchinson, L. McKinnon, N. O'Meara.
Honorable Mention.
Second Preparatory Class. Miss A Robson. Third Preparatory Class.—Miss M. Quan. First Junior Class.—Miss B. Quan.
Table of Honor.
Junior Department.—Dec. 1st.
Misses L. Thomson, M. Quan, B. Quan, M. Clarke G. Darling, B. Frensdorf, N. Healy, A Byrnes, A Clarke, N. Gross, H. Hunt.
First Preparatory Class.—Misses L. Niel, R.
Leoni.	’
Second Preparatory Class—Misses M. Kearney,
M. Kreutzer.
Third Preparatory Class.—J. Kearney.