Berated ta tW interests nf th® Studwte.
“JDAJBOXt OMNIA. VINCIT.”
Volume V.	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 18, 1871.	Numbee 11.
The Fashionable Lady’s Prayer.
Give us this day our daily bread; pies, cake, and meat beside.
To load the stomach, pain the head, and choke the vital tide.
And, if too soon, a friend decays, or dies in agony,
We’ll talk of “ God’s mysterious ways,” and lay it all to Thee.
Give us, to please a morbid taste, in spite of pain and death,
Consumption strings around the waist, almost to stop the breath.
Then if infirmity attends our stinted progeny. In visitation for our sins—we’ll lay it all to Thee.
Yes, give us coffee, wine and tea, and hot things introduce,
The stomach’s warm bath thrice a day, to weaken and reduce,
And if, defying nature’s laws, dyspeptic we must be, We’ll scorn to search for human cause, but lay it all to Thee.	—Er.
[Selected.]
ERIC; or, Little by Little.
A Tale of Roslyn School.
By Frederic W. Farrar, Fdlow of Trinity College, Cambridge.
PART FIRST.
CHAPTER XI.
ERIC IN COVENTRY.
And cither greet him not, Or else disdainfully, which shall shake him more Than if not looked on.—Troilus and Cressida, iii, 3.
Upton, expatriatecMrom his study, was allowed to use one of the smaller class-rooms which were occupied during play-hours by those boys who were too high in the school for “the boarders’ room,” and who were waiting to succeed to the studies as they fell vacant. There were three or four others with him in this class-room, and although it was less pleasant than his old quarters, it was yet far more comfortable than the Pandemonium of the Shell and fourth-form boys.
As a general rule, no boys were allowed to sit in any of the class-rooms except their legitimate occupants. The rule, however, was very generally overlooked, and hence Eric, always glad of an opportunity to escape from the company of Barker and his associates, became a constant frequenter of his friend’s new abode. Here they used to make themselves very comfortable. Joining the rest they would drink coffee or chocolate, and amuse themselves over the fire with Punch, or some warlike novel in a green or yellow cover. One of them very often read aloud to the rest; and Eric, ■ being both a good reader and a merry, intelligent listener, soon became quite a favorite among the other boys.
Mr. Rose had often seen him sitting there, and left him unmolested; but if ever Mr. Gordon hap
pened to come in and notice him, he invariably turned him out, and after the first offence or two, had several times set him an imposition. This treatment gave fresh intensity to his now deeply-seated disgust at his late master, and his expressions of indignation at “ Gordon’s spite” were loud and frequent.
One day Mr. Gordon had accidentally come in, and found no one there but Upton and Eric; they were standing very harmlessly by the window, with Upton’sarm resting kindly on Eric’s shoulder as they watched with admiration the network of rippled sunbeams that Hashed over the sea. Upton had just been telling Eric the splendid phrase, I have counted the many-twinkling smile of ocean, which he had stumbled upon in an JEschylus lesson that morning, and they were trying which would hit on the best rendering of it. Eric stuck up for the literal sublimity of “ the innumerable laughter of the sea,” while Upton was trying to win him over to “the many-twinkling smile of ocean.” They were enjoying the discussion, and each stoutly maintaining his own rendering, when Mr. Gordon entered.
On this occasion he was particularly angry: he had an especial dislike of seeing the two boys together, because he fancied that the younger had grown more than usually conceited and neglectful since he had been under the fifth-form patronage; and he saw in Eric’s presence there, a new case of wilful disobedience.
“Williams, here again.1" he exclaimed sharply; “why, sir, you seem to suppose that you may defy rules with impunity 1 How often have I told you that no one is allowed to sit here, except the regular occupants?"
His voice startled the two boys from their pleasant discussion.
“ No other master takes any notice of it, sir,” said Upton.
“I have nothing to do with other masters. Williams, you will bringme the fourth Georgie, written out by Saturday morning, for your repeated disobedience. Upton, I have a great mind to punish you also, for tempting him to come here."
This was a mistake on Mr. Gordon’s part, of which Upton took immediate advantage.
“ I have no power to prevent it, sir, if he wishes it. Besides,” he continued with annoying blandness of tone, “ it would be inhospitable; and I am too glad of his company.”
Eric smiled; and Mr. Gordon frowned, “Wil liams, leave the room instantly.”
The boy obeyed slowly and doggedly. “Mr. Rose never interferes with me, when he sees me here,” said as he retreated.
“ Then I shall request Mr. Rose to do so in future; your conceit and impertinence are getting intolerable.”
Eric only answered with a fiery glance; for of all charges the one which a boy resents most is an accusation of conceit. The next minute Upton joined him on the stairs, and Mr. Gordon heard them laughing a little ostentatiously, as they ran out into the play-ground together. He went away full of strong contempt, and from that moment
began to look on the friends as two of the worst boys in the school.
This incident had happened on Thursday, which was a half-holiday, and instead of being able to join in any of the games, Eric had to spend that weary afternoon in writing away at the fourth Georgie; Upton staying in a part of the time to help him a little, by dictating the lines to him—an occupation not unfrequently interrupted by storms of furious denunciation against Mr. Gordon’s injustice and tyranny; Eric vowing, with the usual vagueness of school-boy intention, “ that he would pay him out somehow yet.”
The imposition was not finished that evening, and it again consumed some of the next day’s leisure, part of it being written between schools in the forbidden class-room. Still it was not qnite finished on Friday afternoon at six, when school ended, and Eric stayed a few minutes behind the rest to scribble off the last ten lines; which done, he banged down the lid of the desk, not locking it, and ran out
The next morning an incident happened which involved considerable consequences to some of the actors in my story.
Mr. Rose and several other masters had not a room to themselves, like Mr. Gordon, but heard their forms in- the great hall. At one end of this hall was a board used for the various school notices, to which there were always affixed two or three pieces of paper containing announcements about examinations and other matters of general interest.
On Saturday morning (when Eric was to give up his Georgie), the boys, as they dropped into the hall for morning school, observed a new notice on the board, and thronging round to see what it was, read these words, written on a half-sheet of paper attached by wafers to the board:
“ Gordon is a surly Devil."
As may be supposed, so completely novel an announcement took them all very much by surprise, and they wondered who had been so audacious as to play this trick. But their wonderwas cut short by the entrance of the masters, and they all took their seats, without any one tearing down the dangerous paper.
After a few minutes the eye of the second master, Mr. Ready, fell on the paper, and, going up, he read it, stood for a moment transfixed with astonishment, and then called Mr. Rose.
Pointing to the inscription, he said: “ I think we had better leave that there, Rose, exactly as it is, till Dr. Rowlands has seen it. Would you mind asking him to step in here ?”
Just at this juncture Eric came in, having been delayed by Mr. Gordon, while he rigidly inspected the imposition. As he took his seat, Montagu, who was next him, whispered:
“ I say, have you seen the notice board?”
“No. Why?”
“Why, some fellow has been writing up an opinion of Gordon not veiy favorable.”
“And served him right, too, brute!” said Eric, smarting with the memory of his imposition.
“Well, there’ll be no end of a row; you’ll see.”
2
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
During this conversation. Dr. Rowlands came in ■with Mr. Rose. He read the paper, frowned, pondered a moment, and then said to jMr. Rose: “ Would you kindly summoa the lower school into the hall ? As it would be painful to Mr. Gordon to be present, you had better explain to him how matters stand.”
“ Halloa! here’s a rumpus!” whispered Montagu; “lie never has the lower school down for nothing.”
A noise was heard on the stairs, and in flocked the lower school. When they had ranged themselves <>n the vacant forms, there wasa dead silence and hush of expectation.
“ I have summoned you all together," said the Doctor, “on a mostserious occasion. This morning, on coming into the school-room, the masters found that the notice-bnard had been abused for the purpose of writing up an insult to one of our number, which is at once coarse and wickei- As only a few of you have seen it, it becomes my deeply painful duty to inform you of its purport; the words are these—‘ Gordon is a surly devil.’ ” A very slight titter followed this statement, which was instantly succeeded by a sort of thrilling excitement; but Eric, when he heard the words, started perceptibly, and colored as he caught Montagu's eye fixed on him.
Dr. Rowlands continued “I suppose this dastardly impertinence has been perpetrated by some boy out of a spirit of revenge. I am perfectly amazed at the unparalleled audacity and meanness of the attempt, and it may be very difficult to discover the author of it. But, depend upon it, discover him tre will, at whatever cost. Whoever the offender may be, and he must be listening to me at this moment, let him be assured that he shall not be unpunished. His guilty secret shall be torn from him. His punishment can only’ be mitigated by his instantly’ yielding himself up.”
No one stirred, but during the latter part of this address Eric was so uneasy, and his cheek burned with such hot crimson, that several eyes were upon him, and the suspicions of more than one boy were awakened.
“Very well,” said the head master, “the guilty boy is not inclined to confess. Mark, then; if bis name has not been given up to me by’ to-day week, every’ indulgence to the school will be forfeited, the next whole holiday stopped, and the coming cricket-match prohibited.”
“ The handwriting may be some clue,” suggested Mr. Ready’. “ Would you have any objection to my examining the note-books of the Shell?”
“ None at all. The Shell boys are to show their books to Mr. Ready immediately.”
The head boy of the Shell collected the books, and took them to the desk; the three masters glanced causually at about.a dozeu, and suddenly’ stopped at one. Eric’s heart beat loud, as he saw Mr. Rose point towards him.
“We have discovered a handwriting which remarkably resembles that on the board. I give the ' offender one more chance of substituting confession for detection.”
No one stirred; but Montagu felt that his friend ■ was trembling violently’.
“Eric Williams, stand out in the room!”■
Blushing scarlet, and deeply agitated, the boy obeyed.
“ The writing on the notice is exactly like yours. Do you know anything of this shameful proceeding?”
“ Nothing, sir,” he murmured in a low tone.
“Nothing whatever?”
“Nothing whatever, sir.”
Dr. Rowlands’ look searched him through and through, and seemed to burn into his heart. He did not meet it, but hung his head. The Doctor felt certain from his manner that he was guilty. He chained him to the spot with his glance for a
minute or two, and then said slowly, and with a deep sigh:
“Very well; I Aope you have spoken the truth, but whether you have or no, we shall soon discover. The school, and especially the upper boys, will remember what I have said. I shall now tear down the insulting notice, and put it into your hands, Avonley, as head of the schobl, that you may’ make further inquiries.” He left the room, and the boys resumed their usual avocation till twelve o’clock. But poor Eric could hardly get through his ordinary pursuits; he felt sick and giddy, until everybody noticed his strange, embarrassed manner, and random answers.
No sooner had twelve o’clock struck than the whole school broke up into knots of buzzing and eager talkers.
“ 1 wonder who did it,” said a dozen voices at once.
“The writing was undoubtedly Williams’,” suggested some.
“ And did you notice how red and pale he got when the Doctor spoke to him, and how he hung his head?”
“’Yes; and every one knows how he hates Gordon.”
“ Aye, by the bye, Gordon set him a Georgie only’ on Thursday, and he has been swearing at him ever since.”
“ I noticed that he stayed in after all the rest last night,” said Barker pointedly.
“Did he? By Jove that looks bad.”
“H:ts any one charged him with it?” asked Duncan.
“Yes,” answered one of the group: “but he’s as proud of it as Lucifer, and is furious if you mention it to him. He says we ought to know him better than to think him capable of such a thing.”
“And quite right, too,” said Duncan. “ If he did it, he’s done something totally unlike what one would have believed possible of him.”
The various items of evidence were put together, and certainly they seemed to prove a strong case against Eric. In addition to the probabilities already mentioned, it was found that the ink used was of a violet color, and a peculiar kind, which Eric was known to patronize; and not only so, but the wafers with which the paper had been attached to the board were yellow,and exactlyofthe same size with some whichEric was said to possess. How the latter facts had been discovered, nobody’ exactly knew, but they began to be very generally whispered throughout the school.
In short, the almost universal conviction among the boy’s proclaimed that he was guilty, and many urged him to confess it at once, and save the school from the threatened punishment. But he listened to such suggestions with the most passionate indignation.
“What!” he said angrily, “tell a wilful lie to blacken my own innocent character? Never!”
The consequence was, they all began to shun him. Eric was put into Coventry’- Very few boys in the school still clung to him and maintained his innocence in spite of appearances, but they were the boys whom he had most loved and valued, and they were most vigorous in his defence. They were Russell, Montagu, Duncan, Owen, and little Wright.
On the evening of the Saturday, Upton had sought out Eric, and said, in a very serious tone: “ This is a bad business, Williams. I cannot forget how you have been abusing Gordon lately, and though I won’t believe you guilty, yet you ought to explain.”
“ What? even you, then, suspect me ?” said Eric, bursting into proud and angry tears. “ Very well. I shan’t condescend to deny it. I won’t speak to you again till you have repented of mistrusting meand he resolutely rejected all further overtures on Upton’s part.
He was alone in his misery. Some one, he per-
ceived, had plotted to destroy his character, and he saw loo clearly how many causes of suspicion told against him. But it was very bitter to think that the whole school could so readily suppose that he would do a thing which from his soul he abhorred. “ No,” he thought; “ bad I may be, but I could not have done such a base and cowardly’ trick.”
Never in his life had he been so wretched. He wandered alone to the rocks, aud watched the waves dashing against them with the rising tide. The tumult of the weather seemed to relieve and console the tumult of his heart. He drank in strength and defiance from the roar of the waters, and climbed to their very edge along the rocks, where every fresh rush of the waves enveloped him in white swirls of cold salt spray. The look of the green, rough, hungry’ sea, harmonized with his feelings, aud he sat down and stared into it, to find relief from the tumult of his thoughts.
At last, with a deep sigh, he turned away to go' back and meet the crowd of suspicious and unkindly companions, and brood alone over his sorrow in the midst of them. He had not gone many steps when he caught sight of Russell in the distance. His first impulse was to run away and escape; but Russell determined to stop him, and when he came up, said:.
“ Dear Eric, I have sought you out on purpose to tell you that I don’t suspect you, and have never done so for a moment. I know you too well, my boy’, and be sure that I will always stick to you, even if the whole school cut you.”
“ 0 Edwin, I am so wretched. I needn’t tell you that I am quite innocent of this. What have I done to be so suspected ? Why, even your cousin Upton won’t believe me.”
“ But he does, Erie,” said Russell; “ he told me so just now, and several others said the same thing.”
A transient gleam passed over Eric’s face.
“ Oh, I do so long for home again,” he said. “ I hate this place. Except you, I have no friend.”
“ Don’t say so, Eric, this cloud will soon blow over. Depend upon it, as the Doctor said, we shall discover the offender yet, and the fellows will soon make you reparation for their false suspicions. And you hare one friend, Eric,” he continued, pointing reverently upwards.
Eric was overcome. He sat down on the grass, while intense pride and the consciousness of innocence struggled with the burning sense of painful injustice. Russell sat, silent and pitying, beside him, till at last Eric, with sudden energy, sprang to his feet and said :
“ Now, Edwin, I have been conquering my cowardice, thanks to yqp, so come along home. After all, the fellows are in the wrong, not Iand so saying he took Russell’s arm a.<d walked across the playground, with almost a haughty look.
When they got home Eric found three notes in his drawer. One of them was from Mr. Gordon and ran thus:
“ I have little doubt, Williams, that you have done this act. Believe me, I leel no anger, only pity for you. Come to me and confess, and I promise, by every means iu my power, to befriend and save you.”
This note he read, and then, stamping on the floor, tore it up furiously into twenty pieces, which he scattered about the room.
Another was from Mr. Rose:
“ Dear Eric: I cannot, will not believe you gnilty, though appearances look very black. You have many faults, but I feel sure that I cannot be mistaken ia supposing you too noble-minded for a revenge so petty and so mean. Come to me, dear boy, if I can help you in any way. I trust you, Eric, and will use every endeavor to right you in the general estimation. You are innocent. Pray to God for help under this cruel trial, and be sure that your character will be cleared.
“Affectionately yours,
“Walter Rosb.”.
“P.S.—I can easily understand that just now you
NOTREDAME SCHOLASTIC
will like quiet. Come and sit with me in the library as . much as you like.”
He read this note two or three times with grateful emotion, and at that moment would have died for Mr. Kose. The third note was from Owen, as ’ follows:
“Dear Williams: We have been cool to each other lately; naturally, perhaps. But yet I think that it will be some consolatiou to be told, even by a rival, that I, for one, feel certain of your innocence, and, moreover, think that I can prove it, as I will tell you in time. If you want company, I shall be delighted to have a walk.	Yours truly,
“D. Ownx.”
This note, too, brought much comfort to the poor boy’s lonely heart. He put it into his pocket and determined to accept Mr. Rose’s kind offer of allowing him to sit for the present in the library.
There were several boys in the room while he _ was reading his notes, but none of them spoke to him, and he was too proud to notice them, or interrupt the constrained silence. As he went out he met Duncan and Montagu, who at once addressed him in the hearing of the rest:
“Ha! Williams,” said Duncan, “we have been looking everywhere for you, old fellow. Cheer up! you shall be cleared yet. I for one, and Monty for another, will maintain your innocence before the whole school.”
Montague said nothing, but Eric understood full well the trustful kindness of bis soft pressure of the hand. His heart was too full to speak, and he went on towards the library.
“I wonder at your speaking to that fellow,” ~ said Ball, as the two new-comers joined the group at the fire place.
“ You will be yourself ashamed of having ever suspected him before long," said Montagu, warmly; “ ay, the whole lot of you; and you are very unkind to condemn him before you are certain.”
“I wish you joy of your friend, Duncan,” sneered Barker.
“Friend?” said Duncan, firing up; “yes! he is my friend, and I’m not ashamed of him. It would ' be well for the school if all the fellows were as
honorable as Williams.”
Barker took the hint, and although he was too brazen to blush, thought it better to say no more.
[to be continued.]
Vulgarity.
We commend the following extract to the thoughtful study of the young. Nothing is so disgusting and repugnant to the feelings of the noble and good as to hear the young, or even the old, use profane, low, or vulgar language. The young of our towns are particularly guilty of profanity. In our day it seems the “boy” does not feel himself a “man” unless he can excel in this great sin.
“We would guard the young against the use of every word that is not strictly proper. Use no profane expression, allude to no sentence that will put to blush the most sensitive. You know not the tendency of habitually using indecent and profane language. It may never be obliterated from your heart. When you grow up you will find at your tongue’s end some expression which you would not use for any money. It was used w’hen quite young. By using care you will save yourself a great deal of mortification and sorrow. Good men have taken sick'and become delirious. In these moments they used the most- vile and indecent language imaginable. When informed of . it after restoration to health they had no idea of the pain they caused; they had learned and repeated the expressions in childhood, aud though years had passed since, they had been indelibly stamped upon the heart. Think of this, you who are tempted to use improper language, and never .disgrace yourselves.”
Astronomy’—Wo. 6.
A SYNOPSIS OF US HISTORY.
[continued.]
Thus the astronomical improvements in the seventeenth century have been owing to the great perfection of instruments, and to the establishment of regular observatories in various parts of Europe.
Rosner, a celebrated Danish astronomer, first made use of a meridian telescope, and, by observing the eclipses of Jupiter’s satellites, was led to his discovery of light, which he communicated to the Academy of Science in Paris, in 1675. Mr. Flamstead was also appointed the first astronomer royal at Greenwich about the same time, where he observed all the celestial phenomena for more than forty-four years, and, as the fruits of his labors, published a catalogue of three thousand stars with their proper places to the year 1688. Cassiui, also, the first French astronomer royal, greatly distinguished himself by his numerous observations of the sun, moon, and planets.
In 1719 Mr. Flamstead was succeeded by Dr. Hally, the friend of Newton, a man of the first eminence in all classes of literature and science, who had been sent, at the early age of 21, to the island of St. Helena to observe the southern stars, a catalogue of which he published in 1679. Dr. Hally’s observations on the moon amounted to 1,500. About this time an attempt was made in France to measure a degree of the earth, which was the occasion of a warm dispute concerning its figure. M. Cassini concluded from the measurement of Picart, that it was an oblong spheroid; but Newton, from a consideration of the laws of gravity, and the diurnal motion of the earth, had determined its figure to be an oblate spheroid, flattened at the poles and protuberant at the equator. To determine this point, Louis XV, King of France, ordered two degrees of the meridian to be measured, one under or near the equator; the other as near as possible to the pole, the result of which arduous undertaking was a confirmation of Newton’s investigation.
On the death of Dr. Halley, in 1742, he was succeeded by Dr. Bradley, who has rendered himself highly celebrated in astronomy by two of the finest discoveries that have ever been made in the science: the aberration of light and the nutation of the earth’s axes. Among other things he also formed new and accurate tables of Jupiter’s satellites, as well as the most correct table of refractions yet extant, also with a large transit instrument, and a new mural quadrant of eight feet radus, constructed by Mr. Bird in 1750. He made an immense number of observations for settling the places of all the stars in the British catalogue, together with 150 places of the moon, the greater part of which he compared with Slayer’s tables.
Dr. Bradley was succeeded in his office of astronomer royal, in 1762, by Sir. Bliss, who died in 1765, and was succeeded by Nevil Slaskelyne, who rendered great service to the science by his publication of the “ Nautical Almanac.”
In the meantime, many other eminent mathematicians, of various countries, were assiduously employed in endeavoring to promote the science. Sir. Slayer computed a set of lunar tables that were considered so valuable that he received a premium of £3,000 sterling as a reward, from the board of longtitude in London.
Among the French astronomers, who, about this time, particularly distinguished themselves, we are indebted to SI. de la Caille for an excellent set of solar tables, in which he has made allowance for the attractions of Jupiter, Venus and the Sloon, as well as for observations which he made at the Cape of Good Hope, in 1750, in concert with the most celebrated astronomers of Europe.
Such was the state of Astronomy when Dr. Her
schel, by augmenting the power of telescopes beyond the most sanguine expectations, opeued a scene altogether unlooked for. On the 13th-of Slarch, 1781, he discovered a new primary planet attended by six satellites, and which, being at twice the distance of Saturn from the Sun, has doubled the bounds formerly given to the solar system. This new planet was first named by astronomers in honor of its discoverer, “The Herschel;” but Herschel himself named it the “ Georgium Sidus,” in honor of King George the Third. These names, however, have been laid aside and that of “Uranus” universally adopted. It was then calculated that this planet was eighteen hundred million of miles from the Sun, with a diameter of 33,000 miles, and requiring eighty-four years to make one revolution round the Sun.
In the year 1782 J. E. Bode, astronomer at Berlin, published a set of celestial charts, containing a greater number of stars than in those of Mr. Flam-stead, with many of the double stars and nebula, with large.additions from Hevelius, de la Caille, Mayer aud others. But the most complete catalogue that had yet appeared, was that published by Dr. Wollaston of the Royal Society, in 1789, regulated for January 1st, 1790.
The first day of the nineteenth centuiy was rendered remarkable by the discovery of a new planet between Mars and Jupiter. This we owe to the observation of Piazzie of Palermo, in Italy. This planet has received the name of “Ceres.” Another new planet was discovered by Dr. Olbers, in Germany, on the 28th of March, 1801, which is called “ Pallas.” A third was discovered by M. Harding, at Lilienthal, near Bremen, September 4, 1804, called “Juno,” and a fourth by Dr. Olbers, on the 19th of March, 1807, called “Vesta.”
Uniting together these discoveries, it will appear that in less than two centuries there has been added to the known bodies of our system no less than five planets and seventeen satellites, about three times as many as were known at the time’of the promulgation of our present system, by its renowned author, Copernicus. The figure and magnitude of the earth had, from the earliest date, occupied the attention of the learned. We have seen that this problem had been attempted by Erastosthenes, and again by the Arabian mathematician, Almamon; but we know little of their determinations. We may, however, easily imagine how very imperfect their conclusions must have been, when we see that the early attempts of this kind in Europe were not attended with much better success. We shall briefly notice those which seem to be of the greatest importance.
J. F.
[to be continued.]
Degradation of Swearing.—It is no mark of a gentleman to swear. The most worthless and vile, the drunkard and the prostitute, swear as well as the best dressed and educated gentleman. No particular endowments are required to give a finish to the art of cursing. The basest and meanest of mankind swear with as much tact and skill as the most refined; and he that wishes to degrade himself to the lowest level of pollution and shame learns to be a common swearer. Profane swearing never did any good. No man is richer, or wiser, or happier for it. It helps no one’s education'or manners. It is disgusting to the refined, abominable to the good; degrading to the mind; unprofitable, needless, and injurious to society; and wantonly to profane His name, to call His vengeance down, to curse Him, is perhaps of all offenses the most awful in the sight of God.
Ax exchange says there are seventy different kinds of rice cultivated in Europe. In this country there is a kind called ava-rice that grows without cultivating.—Picayune.	.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Published every Week during Term Time, at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should he sent to Editors Seno-lastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
tingle copies HOc) of the publication can be obtained at the Students' Office.
Evaaiag Entertainments given 'ey the Students.
We said nothing of the evening entertainment given by the Thespian and Philharmonic Societies last week, as a long report was published, in which “ Obadiah” g-ive bis views, and we did not entertain the idea of taking up too much space with one subject.
We think it proper to give our opinion this wjeek:
First of all, we would respectfully submit a proposition to the Directors and Presidents of the Societies, who do us the favor of breaking the monotony of class days and class duties by giving us, irregularly and spasmodically during the year, a few hours of amusement. Wc would propose that, instead of the long entertainments that come once in two months, on an average, and which keep audience and performers up until a late hour of the night, and which, by their length, fatigue the audience instead of amusing them, the Societies give an entertainment once every two weeks, and so limit the programme that the exercises would not exceed two hours, at most, and would usually be only an hour and a half in length.
We must not be considered as finding fault with the quality of what we get; we complain only of the quantity. We like oysters, but after having taken our usual quantity we would be pretty apt to quarrel with any one who would insist on our taking as many more. It is the same with these evening entertainments: we like them, and for an hour or two they please, amuse and interest us, but after that length of time they begin to do just the contrary.
How can it be otherwise? Even though the Hall be ventilated, yet the air gradually becomes impure from the breathing of so many; this alone would bring on discomfort, but when you add to this the flattening of the voices of the singers, who ’become fatigued both by singing in such an atmosphere, and by singing too much, and by taking part in other exercises of the evening, you at once perceive that more than two hours would be too long to really enjoy the performance. The musical instruments are less resonant in sound, and frequently the failure of a singer or of the Orchestra to come up to our expectations should be attributed not to any fault on their part, but to the foulness of the air.
Now, all this would be avoided by having only two hours taken up every evening. We know there is one serious objection to this, and it is in the number of pei formers who ought to appear,— that is, who have a right to appear. This has been the cause of the programme being too long.
But this objection is at once answered by the suggestion to have the entertainments more frequently and not so long. Those who do not take an active part in one may do so in the next one.
We think that it is doing an injustice to the young men. Of course, we do not find fault with the Directors, for we are aware that their wi-h is to do justice to all; and, through this motive, the programme is imperceptibly lengthened out. But, in
fact, an injustice is done them by taxing their powers too much on a single evening. A professional singer, indeed, will sing you the evening through and not be hoarse nor fatigued, because he has obtained control over his voice and knows how to use it. The same can be said of the professional reader and speaker.
But, though several of the students have attained considerable skill both in music and elocution, yet they are comparatively young, their organs of speech are not yet “ iron clad ” and able to resist any amount of pressure. The consequence is that young men, who acquit themselves well in the beginning of the evening, and would have had everything in their favor had the exercises closed at a reasonable hour, are obliged to exert themselves to continue on to an unreasonable length, and the further consequence is a failure or, at least, a partial failure.
And, in regard to the Thespians, we think it a bad arrangement of the programme to keep the audience an hour or an hour and a half in the Hall, and have the keenness of their appetite taken off by such a long waiting—even though they be enlivened by music and speeches—ere the well-prepared play or drama is commenced. The audience are tired by the vety fact of being kept so long wailing.
The play, when well-prepared, should be the feature of the evening, and should begin after a piece from the Orchestra or Band. One address, by way of prologue or in honor of the day, or simply “ to rise and explain ” should be the extent of speechifying before the play.
When the Juniors have a drama, it might be introduced and interspersed with declamations, from those who have no part in the play or musical performance.
When the Philharmonics, the Orchestra and the Band unite to give an exhibition, let their music be accompanied by speeches, readings and declamations.
By these remarks we are finding fault with nothing but the length of our evening exhibitions; we are not finding fault with what is there done to entertain us: and we are endeavoring to persuade the Directors to have the exhibitions more frequently. We know it is quite a labor outside of class duties to furnish an entertaining programme; yet we think with the essays that have to be written in class, the speeches and debates in Societies, with some extra-class pieces by the Thespians and St Cecilians, these short two hour evening entertainments could be given, at least, every two weeks.
As for the exhibition on the 4th inst., we were present and ei joyed it very much, because we were determined, before going, to stay only a certain length of time and no longer. This determination we took for two reasons: first, we could not remain longer consistently with duties we had to, attend to, and secondly, that determination fixed our minds on the fact that the exhibition would not be too long for us, and we, consequently, enjoyed the time we remained.
The music by the Orchestra needs no praise from us; the leader and all the first class performers who compose it would no doubt feel gratified if we were capable of appreciating the high class of music they give us; but, knowing as they do our want of musical culture, they would merely shrug their shoulders and smile if we were to undertake to give an appreciative report of the music played and the style in which it was executed.
We would remark this, however, that the more we have of such music, the more we will be delighted, and the oftener the students hear such music the better they will learn to appreciate what good music is.
Wc feel the same diffidence when writing about the baud and the vocal music. We could give our own impressions, certainly, but in doing so we
might do injustice to some, as it might easily happen that what pleased us most might not have been best, and that which pleased us least might have been really artistic and delightful to those who understand music.
This we know of the band. The leader is a thorough musician; not only does he perform to perfection on the instrument he plays when leading, but he has musical genius that is rarely given to any man. We know less about the other performers, but some of them would be an acquisition to any band.
We here allow ourselves a criticism because we think we are capable of making it—the accessory instruments of a band should be played with more judgment than was displayed by the young men who performed on drum, &c. These instruments are for out-door performances.
The singing was a treat to us. We have heard better, certainly. We have heard better than Parepa Rosa’s, aad yet we would not shut our ears to her voice nor say it gave us no pleasure, because we had heard belter. When we go to hear students sing we do not expect the same from them that we would from a professional singer, and wc may add that we have been far more pleased with the unaffected singingof hearty, jovial college students than with the pretentious stifle ot would be artists.
The three students who sing solos that evening gave proof of having done already a great deal to improve the good voice which God has given them. George Riopelle needs only more self-assurance to be a good soloist; it is not only in speaking but also and especially in singing that a little nervousness tells on the voice and prevents the speaker or singer from giving out his true tones. Robert Staley has a highly cultivated voice, and in his singing one is charmed not only by the sweetness of his notes, but also by the absence of all affectation. Alfred Filson did full justice to the magnificent voice God has given him. When we hear such golden richness of sound proceed fromtlielipsof a young man wecan never help thinking that it was given him for soma good purpose,—not merely to amuse for a few moments, not merely as a means of gaining a li velihood, butas an instrument to elevate the souls of his hearers to high and holy thoughts. Such a voice as that ought to be—as we have every reason to believe it is—united to a soul capable of feeling the grand music of the great Catholic composers. We would consider it a desecration to hear such a voice singing a negro melody with words, or uttering the namby pamby nonsense of one of your sentimental songs.
The chorus by the whole Society showed that Professor Regniers has already drilled them well; and with such material, a thorough teacher, as he is, will soon have them in proper trim to give us frequent demonstrations of their progress.
In regard to the addresses and declamations, we have nothing to say adverse to the young gentlemen who appeared before us. On the contrary, we cannot but praise them for the creditable manner in which they acquitted themselves of a task that was too hastily imposed upon them, and which with right good will they undertook in order to please the Director and audience, although they felt assured that they could not with such short preparation do justice to themselves. We have known for years back the ability of Mark Foote,—a more self-possessd and thoroughly capable speaker than Mark never appeared before an audience here; and if he did not come up the expectations pf his friends—that is, the whole of the audience—the fault was not his, but must be attributed to the fact that you cannot compress in a four or five hours the time and work of that number of days. The same may be said of T. O’Mahony, who, though a good reader and having an excellent voice, failed through want of preparation and be-enuse he did not know the poem by heart, to bring out the beauty of the masterly verse of Mariaphi-
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
«»
,.os. As we listened to Mr. O’Mahony we felt as we would at hearing a good musician playing for the first time a difficult and charming piece of music on the piano:—we could tell from his touch that he was a good musican, that he perceived the beauties of the piece, but that he merely glanced over them without bringing them out full toned and well modulated as he would the second or third time he would play it over. How we longed, that evening, to hear the magic words of the poem uttered by sucli a reader as Murdock or such an actor as Booth!
We need say nothing of our special friends, the Minims. They are always ready, and they always please.
The play coming, after all this, had not a fair chance. Let us talk reasonably and look things in the face. Supposing the entertainment up to this point to have been perfect in every respect, could the audience help getting weary sitting on uacush-ioned seats,—not even cane-bottomed? And at this point they are requested to give their attention to a play which may take another hour or more for representation I What is surprising to us is, that young men, who have so many,other things to attend to, can prepare themselves so well as to keep their audience pleased for so long a time—for certainly the audience were pleased; and perhaps we were the only one who was discontened with the length of the programme. Yet how much more would they have been pleased bad the play commenced while they were yet fresh and just come from the outside air?
Our attention has been called to a criticism on the Ghost in the report of last week. It was considered by tlte reporter a defect that “Fantome” wore the regimental dress of the person he represented,—he should have put a white sheet over him. We do not know whether the reporter would object to the Ghost of Hamlet’s father appearing in armor, and would have the old gentleman wrap a white cloth around himself before appearing. The objection stands as the opinion of the reporter—who would not make a very good stage manager—and we suppose he has no ambition to be one. However, the criticism is so trival and so mal d propos that there is no use making any fuss over it.
. We perceive that in speaking of the singing we did not mention the trio, G ratios Agimus, sung by Prof. Regnier, G. Riopelle, and R. Staley. It was one of the best things of the evening; and here we may again come back to our main proposition: with all the singing, instrumental music, speeches, readings, and play, was there not sufficient matter for two first class evening entertainments? Echo answers: “Yes, certainly; there is no doubt of it.”
Out Acolytes.
Young students do not, we think, fully appreciate the honor conferred upon them when they are allowed to serve before the altar during the celebration of the august mj’steries. After the priest, they occupy the highest and most honorable position of all personsattendingMass—higher than do thechor-isters. Indeed, after the priest, they, more than any others, receive more of the general graces or fruits of the holy sacrifice. They are the assistants in offering the grandest, holiest and most efficacious of sacrifices. They should, therefore, seek to render themselves worthy of the high honor that is conferred upon them. They should make it their study to lead lives of innocence and purity. Their conduct, not only in the church but also in the ordinary routine of College life, should be blameless,—should be above reproach. They should show to the whole community, in which they live, that they are worthy’ of being chosen from the many to assist before the altar of God; that they are, with reason, raised to the dignity of young Lecites.
Their bearing before the altar should be such as to inspire the congregation with the deepest piety. They do not know how many persons are edified by the grace, modesty and devotion which the Acolytes exhibit in the sanctuary—in the very presence of God. Nor do they know what pain and distraction they cause when they display awkwardness of motion in devotion, and the slightest levity of manners.
It has always been customary at Notre Dame to select as Acolytes, those of the younger students of the College, who, by their conduct in the class rooms, iu recreation and, in fact, everywhere, show themselves to be perfect little gentlemen., in the true sense of the word. We are glad to say that this year we do not know of there being any exception to the rule; that the members of the Sodality of the Holy Angels have shown themselves worthy of enjoying the privilege of assisting in the sanctuary; that they attend promptly and well to the duties incumbent upon them; that their conduct has, as a general thing, been very good. Of this latter fact the lists of the Table of Honor serve to prove.
It appears, however, that there might be more members of the Sodality. Surely, twenty more students could and should be found among the younger ones who, by their conduct, render themselves worthy of membership—worthy of taking part in the ceremonies of the church. No young student should, through diffilence, or rather bashfulness, dislike to serve Mass; but all should endeavor to become members of the most interesting religious society in the College.
The Sodality should make it a point to have a grand display on the 8th of December next—the Feast of the Immaculate Conception.
-------< — ।------
Wb hear nothing about the public debate.
The first snow of the season fell on the 15th inst.
We learn that the Thespians are preparing a play for the holidays.
The last census of Notre Dame showed a population of 5G3 persons.
The Juniors are jubilant. The Star of the West is still in the ascendant.
The first regular musical soiree of this year will take place Sunday evening, 19th inst.
The wind has commenced its usual winter spree, and is blowing around the College in high style.
Thanks to a friend in Ohio who has sent us some London papers. They are always welcome.
WnAT about the funds realized for the Chicago sufferers? We are one. Our umbrella “got” burned up in the store.
The exhibition at St. Mary’s on the anniversary day of St. Charles was well attended and highly appreciated by all present.
The best pianists among the students will be. required soon to give an evening entertainment in the large parlor. We expect a rare treat.
Somebody made the ill-natured remark that though the students are not heavy on dancing, they promise well on break-downs. What does he mean?
A large cistern for rain water is now being built in the rear of the College building. It will be a reservoir, capable of holding twenty-five thousand gallons of water.
Rev. A. Oechtering-passed us by in a great hurry one day last week.- WeTiad the following cheerful conversation: We—How are you? He —How deedoo? {Exeunt omnes.)	■
Mr. Ed. Brown, of Cleveland, mide a short visit to the College, and proceeded to Waukesha to meet his Rev. brother. Must we add he will, doubtless visit the springs of Bethesda? '
During the fires that were raging in the turf region about South Bend, two hundred tons of turf belonging to the college were consumed. It is a very discomfortable loss, inasmuch as turf generates a far greater heat than wood.	. ’
Our thanks are due, and hereby given, to th*. Rev. Vice-President, for his kind invitation to be present at a soiree on Monday; the weather sadly-interfered with our wishes, and prevented us front enjoying a pleasant evening in pleasant company.
Some young men lately dismissed from the college either afraid or ashamed of going home again are loafing around town. We hope that none of our students will associate with these pernicious youths inasmuch as the marshall is in town now!
In the list which appeared in the. last Scholastic of the classes taught in the University, an omission was accidentally made which we correct t there are two classes of Theology, one of Ecclesiastical History, one of Holy Scriptures, one of Mental Philosophy, and one of Log o. ’
Tub Senior and Junior Orchestra are alive again, under the leadership of Bro. Leopold. Charles blows the clarionet; Frank, the horn; Charles No. 2, the trombane: while Mark and Joe play the violin. Several others have also some important part in it. We hope to give soon complete reports of the organization.
The members of the St. Cecilia Philomatbean Association are preparing for their annual winter Exhibition in honor of their Patron Saint. The play which is to be represented is not yet decided upon. We anticipate a grand exhibition from this talented association. Music, speeches and declamations will largely enter into their programme. Pray, do not make it too long.
Edward M. Brown, City Attorney of .Cleveland, and a graduate of Notre Dame, was here Sunday ‘on a visit We were glad to see him looking so well, and feel proud of his success in hi* profession. Mr. Brown has gone to Waukesha, Wis., to meet there his brother, Rev. Father Brown, who at hist account was much improved, in health.	.
We acknowledge the reception of “The American Elocutionist and Dramatic Reader,” by Prot Lyons, with introduction by Rev.'M. B. Brown. It will receive a full notice as it well deserves. In the meantime we must say that a mistake has ' been made in assigning the authorship of one piece to the person named. We should judge from the style that either Prof. Howard or Father Brown wrote the piece.
The work on the church is rapidly pushed on now during the intervals of sunshine which follow the frequent showers by which we have been favored lately. The walls have been raised very nearly to the top of the windows, or perhaps to one-half of their total height. If everything be prosperous next year, the church will be roofed and the exterior work completed. However, the rapid erection of the church depends mainly on the generosity of our friends, esnecially the friends of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, to whom the new structure thus far owes its being. .
Several musical soirees took place last week and this week, at which some of our visiting friends were present. Among others, Mr. P. Roberts, Esq., and lady, of Independence, Mo.; Mra. Ivers, and Mrs. Campbell, of Philadelphia. The musicians who distinguished themselves on these occasions were Prof. Regniers, who sang and played
4
6
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
in his usual happy style; Prof. Deloulme, who also favored the audience with a few songs; G. W. Biopelle, B. Staley, and A. W. Pilson, who in turn regaled the delighted listeners with choice songs. The interludes on the piano hy Prof. Beg-niers were likewise highly appreciated. We hope to have often such soirees, and that our musical artists will not grow weary of being often called upon.
The “duties” written for the classes are often done with great taste and accuracy.. It is not a • matter of surprise to find in each class a few students whose duty-books are kept as neatly as if they were precious manuscripts; for as it is natural that the good workman should be proud of his work and take good care of his tools, so also the good student ought to set great value on every thing that costs him time and labor. However, when all the members of a class without exception display their good taste and show their application in their daily work, good results may well be anticipated from such a class. We have been pained at times to see the carelessness with which duty-books were kept, and the lack of labor and earnest application which they manifested. The first sign of idleness is shown in the dutybook. If the Professor allow carelessly written : duty-books to come to his desk and pass unre-- buked, we would not give much for his class. ‘It will become useless to insist on good lessons being given, if poorly-written duties are allowed to be handed in as good coin. However accurate the work of the student may be, if it is badly written, without regard to order, symmetry, and fine appearance, we consider the work very imperfect and unsatisfactoiy. Por in a young man, besides close, calculating and sharp reasoning, something more ought to be cultivated—something which is especially lacking in youth; we mean a correct taste and the love of the beautiful To impress the student with this is principally the duty of the teacher, who ought to be himself par excellence a man of fine taste as well as of good attainments. We hope, therefore, to see more and more the taste of the students displayed in their works. It will be the best sign of their progress in their classes, and the evidence of their good training.
Tables of Honor.
SEXIOR DEP’T.
J. Karst, E. W. Barry, J. T. Smarr, C. V. Gamache, J. J. McGahan, L. Godfroy, M. Carr, C. M. Karst, W. J. Clark.
junior dep’t.
L. Munn, M. S. Kelly, P. Cooney, E. Howland, P, Jacobs, W. P. Breen, F. Arantz, J. A. Crum-mey, E. Halpin, J. Danz, F. Devoto.
Let. 10,1871,	D. A C-, Sec.
Honorable Mentions.
CLASSICAL COURSE.
Fourth Year—T. Ireland, M. Keeley, J. McHugh, J. Shannahan, M. Carr.
Third Year—J. McGlynn, M. Foote.
,	Second Year—J. P. White,
First Year—W. Clark, P. Fitzpatrick, C. Gamache, T. Watson.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
. Fourth Year—N. Mitchell, T. O’Mahony.
Second Year—T. Dundon, G. Darr, P. O’Connell, B. Curran.
First Year—F. Leffingwell, T. Murphy, W.
Breen, M. S. Kelly.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Second Year—E. Sweeney, J. Brown, J. Crum-mey, J. Carr, P. Cochrane, J. McFarland.
■ First Year—J. Bowen, E. Barry, T. A. Philips, ■ J. Smarr, F. Egan, L. Godefroy, W. Gross, W.
Kelly', O. Waterman, J. Waters, H. Waldorf J. Darmody, E. Woolman.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Second Year—(1st div.) J. Hogan, J. Bourke, J. Walsh, E. Sheehan, E. Malony, F. Arantz.
Second Division—T. Badeaux, J. Devine, F. Devoto, J. Dunne, E. Howland, A Klein, J. Kaufman, W. Myers, F. Beady, E. Boberts, J. Caren, P. Cooney’, C. Hughes, T. Noel, M. McCormack, D. O’Connell, J. Pumphrey', F. Sweger.
Second Year—T. O’Neill, J. Noonan, W. Quinlan, A Schmidt, F. Smith, J. Wernert, W. Moran, J. Cherlock.
The following list for honorable mention in the Drawing class was handed us too late for appearance in the preceding number of the Scholastic:
N. Mitchell, J. Zimmer, T. Dundon, W. Clark, J. Bumely, B. Luhn, W. Quinlan, W. Kelly, J. Kaufman, C. Campeau, E. Marshall, F. Obert, J. Kilcoin, F. Devoto, A. Schwab, W. Lucas.
minim department.
Arithmetic—E. DeGroot, E. Baymond, L. McIntosh, M. Fambaker, P. Gall, H. Faxon, T. Nelson, A. Morton, F. Buck, C. Elison, E. McMahon, S. McMahon, C. Beck, C. Walsh, C. Faxon, H. Edgell, G. Voelker, J. O’Meara, J. Porter.
In Memorials.
Brother Jerome has gone to liis home. He departed this life last Saturday, and his mortal remains now rest in the unpretentious cemeteiy of the religious of Holy Cross.
Brother Jerome was one of those hardy men who, years ago, entered the community here, when it was struggling against poverty to maintain its seemingly precarious existence. He was a living witness of the truth that those Catholic institutions which are intended by divine Providence to do a certain work on earth, depend not at all upon human aid for their existence and success, but simply onpon the fidelity and zeal of the members in observing their rules, and doing their utmost for the success of their undertaking.
Brother Jerome came to Notre Dame in 1844, and never quitted the precincts of Notre , Dame during the whole of the time that elapsed from the date of his entrance to the day of his death. Though he served the community only in a subordinate capacity during that number of years, he performed his duty well and faithfully, and to him, no doubt, have been spoken those words of reward: Evge scree bone. Welcome, faithful servant ; enter into the joy' of thy Lord.
St. Aloysius’ Thilodemic Association.
The sixth regular meeting of this Society was called to order by the Bev. J. C. Carrier, S.S.C., Director, on Tuesday evening, November 14th at the usual hour. The attendance of members was punctual, and there were besides a number of res pected visitors present, among whom we may mention Veiy Bev. Father Provincial S.S.C., Bev. Father Colovin, the Lecturer of the evening, Bev. Fathers John and Jacob Lauth, Professors F. C. Bigelow, A.M., D. A. Clark, S.B., with many others.
The minutes of the previous meeting having been read and adopted, the Kev. Director requested Father Colovin to ascend the rostrum. Father Colovin’s lecture, being delivered without manuscript or even notes, it is impossible for us to report as we should desire to do. He took for his subject the History of Literature, and placed in strong contrast the literature of the Augustan age with that of Christianity. He drew a vivid picture of the cruel amusements of the ancient Bomans, who though possessing the superb literary
productions of a Horace, a Virgil, an Ovid, a Livy and others, could still place their chief delight in witnessing the savage spectacles of the arena. He adverted to the perfections and imperfections of Boman law, and then exhibited the sweet influence of Christianity slowly but surely stealing over the great system of equity, softening and toning down all that was harsh and severe, and preserving and fortifying all that was just and true. He contrasted the conduct of the victorious Belisarius towards the conquered Vandals of Africa, with the barbarous horrors of an ancient Boman triumph. He then adverted to the invasions of the Northern tribes, and exhibited Charlemagne as the beau ideal of a Christian monarch, as opposed to Nero, the exemplar of a heathen tyrant. Having descanted at some length upon the virtues of Charlemagne, and his useful and admirable career as a sovereign and a civilizer, he proceeded to show that Charlemagne had few, if any, of the advantages afforded by literature, while Nero had at hand those sublime classic works which are still the admiration of the learned. From this he drew the conclusion that literature although a powerful auxiliary when its aid is rightly afforded to religion and morality, is by no means the source or principle of civilization, understanding by civiliza tion all that makes mankind truly noble, or all that tends to human perfection.
Bev. Father Golovin’s lecture having received the earnest attention of all present, was followed by a unanimous vote of thanks, which the Director immediately tendered to the Bev. Lecturer.
An essay on “Liberty,” composed in glowing terms, and read in a spirited style by Mr. F. W. Chamberlain, next followed; and then declamamations from several members. “Bingen on the Bbine” was neatly rendered by Mr. J. F. Wer-nert. Mr. D. Maloney’s correct and inspiriting address to the combatants of the arena, was much admired, and was well chosen as an appendix to the lecture. Mr. .0. Gamache’s pathetic piece, Les Enfans Tromes elicited a great deal of sympathy; but the gem of the declamations was Mr. M. J. Moriarty’s impersonation of Bichard HI. All who 'liave had the pleasure of seeing Mr. Moriarty/ on the stage can form an idea of his talents in tragic declamation, and need no description from us to describe them.
Mr. Carr, as critic, then, after some expressions of reluctance very creditable to his modesty', took the stand, and performed, in his usual gentlemanly style, the delicate office assigned him, blaming, indeed, where blame seemed needed, but generously acknowledging the praise deserved by all, and adding many valuable original hints on style in declamation.
After the proposal of three new members to be ballotted for at the succeeding meeting, and some other miscellaneous business the meeting adjourned.
We may here be allowed to congratulate ourselves and the University in general on the present prosperity of the oldest Literary Society of Notre Dame. The St. Aloysius’ Philodemic contains within itself that Phoenix principle of perpetual rejuvenescence which enables it to weather all storms both from within and without.
A J. S., Special Cor. Sec.
It is mentioned, as an evidence of the destructive influence of a moist climate upon rocks, that the famous obelisk of luxor, in Paris, which was brought from Egypt forty' years ago, where it had stood perfect and unchanged forty centuries, is now full of small cracks and is completely bleached out.
A Boston confectioner has taught his parrot to say “pretty creature” to eveiy lady that enters his shop. His business is rapidly increasing.
NOTREDAMESCHOLASTIC-.	7
St. Edward’s.
FEAR OF FUNISHMENT AND HOPE OF REWARD.
Editors Scholastic:
Eesolved, “ That the fear of punishment is a greater incentive to exertion than the hope of reward,” was the interesting subject which came up for discussion before the St. Edwards Literary Association oa the evening of the 14th inst. The peculiar and almost fascinating interest which clusters around this subject and others of a kindred nature, was heightend by the able and comprehensive manner iu which it was discussed.
Mr. J. D. Hogan, appearing as an exponent of the affirmative, presented an admirable category of sound arguments in defense of his assumed position; and though he had to use his manuscript, yet the effect of his speech was but slightly impaired, and he left the floor with the full consciousness of having rendered the stronghold of his arguments impregnable.
Mr. T. J. Murphy defended the negative with no less tact and tenacity of purpose. Dissecting the question, he arranged the parts with the eye of a skilful connoisseur; showed how they were related to, and powerfully acted upon, individuals and nations, in respect to the motives which influenced them to do or not to do. Missionary zeal, and the efforts put forth by the Church in the great work of salvation, were especially dwelt upon, and beautifully illustrated as one of the strongest proofs of the noble efforts which the hope of reward can alone inspire.
In the absence of one of the speakers, M. Keeley volunteered in his place.
In closing the debate for the negative, Mr. Mc-Gahan exhibited not little knowledge of the powers of argumentation, and in replying extemporaneously to the reasonings advanced by the affirmative, did so quite handsomely.
In conclusion, to particularize between the three prepared debaters would be an injustice; yet we must say in the case of Messes. Hogan and Murphy, who appeared for the first time in the capacity of debaters, that they exhibited a self poise and confidence rarely found in beginners, and truly commendable.
The President having rendered a decision favoring the affirmative, the Association adjourned, well pleased with its evening’s entertainment.
M. Keeley,
Cor. Sec.
[We would be greatly pleased to hear this debate in public.—Ed.]
The Western News relates the following anecdote of the ex Emperor Napoleon, who had been made exceedingly comfortable at the Imperial Hotel, Torquay:
A few days ago he expressed a wish to see the cook—a Frenchman—and on his entering the room said he wanted to tell him in person how much he had been pleased with the cooking.
“I have not enjoyed my dinners so much anywhere since I left the Tuileries,” said Napoleon.
“ Sire. I am honored,” was the reply; “but will your Majesty permit me to mention that I have| had the honor of cooking hundreds of dinners for you and the Empress: I was cook at the Tuileries until two years ago!”
At a dinner, at which no ladies were present, a man, in responding to the toast, “Woman.” dwelt solely on the frailty of the sex, claiming that the best among them were a little better than the worst, the chief differences being iu their surroundings. At the conclusion of the speech, a gentleman rose to his feet and said: “ I trust the gentleman, in the application of his remark, refers to his own mothers and sisters, not ours.”
Base-Ball.
“Sold Again.”
The “Big Okes” in the Shade.
The fourth and deciding game for the championship of the University came off Wednesday, November 8th. The battle has been fought and won, and to the Star of the West belongs the honor of championship. The members of the Star of the East B. B. 0., made a plucky uphill fight, but the fickle dame frowned upon them.
The following is a complete account of the game by innings. The coin was tossed, and Reilly lost, and the Star of the West went to the bat
first innings.
Juniors—S. Dum out on a foul to “Darby? McOsker to first on Clark’s error; second by a a passed ball; steals third, and comes home on Dodge’s bat for first, who steals second; to third on a passed ball; steals home. Berdel to first by Staley’s error; to second and third on passed ball; left on third. W. Dum out on fly to Sweeney. Hogan ditto to Roberts.
Seniors—Roberts out on a fly to Reilly. Leffing-well ditto. Badeux to the rescue by a safe bat to left; second by Walsh’s bat; steals third; home by Reilly’s muff. Walsh to first by Hogan’s error; steals second; out on third by Taylor’s throw.
second innings.
Juniors—Parson to first by Schnelkers muff; round on Darmody’s wild throw. Taylor to first by Badeaux’s fly muff; second by wild pitch; home by Reilly’s bat. Reilly to first by safe bat to centre; second by S. Due’s bat; steals third; home by Clark’s muff. S. Dum to first by Staley’s error; steals second; to third by Clark’s muff; steals home. McOsker out on foul to Darmody. Dodge ditto. Berdel to first by safe bat; to second and third on passed ball; left on third. (Here some straggler remarked: “the Juniors are chawing them up!”) W. Dum to first on called balls; left on second. Hogan out by bat to Badeaux.
Seniors—Darmody to first by safe bat; second and third on past ball; out on home. Staley to first on balls; steals second; left on third. Schnel-ker out on foul to Taylor. Clark on a fly to Dodge. Total, six to one in favor of Juniors.
THIRD INNINGS.
Juniors—Parson to first ou balls; second by Clark’s error; home on a wild pitch. Taylor to first by Clark’s error; home by McOsker’s bat Reilly to first on balls; home by lie's, bat. S. Dum ont on fly to Walsh—a good catch. McOsker to first on safe bat; home by passed balls. Dodge to first by safe bat; second and third by passed balls; steals home. Berdel out by Staley’s throw to Badeaux. W. Dnm to first on balls; second and third on passed balls; left on third. Hogan out on foul by catcher.
Seniors—Sweeney to first on balls; steals second, third and home. Roberts out on fly by W. Dum. Leffingwell to first on bulls; to third by Badeaux’s bat; home on Walsh’s. Badeaux to second by safe bat to left field; home on passed bail. Walsh out by Reilly’s throw to W. Dum. Donnody to first on called balls; second and third by McOsker’s wild throw; home by Staley’s bat Staley to second by safe bat to left field; home by Schnel-ker’s bat to left field. Sweeney to first by Reilly’s bad play, sending Schnelker home. Roberts to first by error; second and third by passed ball. Leffingwell to first by safe bat to left field, sending Sweeney home. Badeaux out on fly by Hogan. Roberts left on third.
FOURTH INNINGS.
Juniors—Parson to first on balls. H. Taylor out on fly by Clark. Reilly to second by good bat; to left field, sending Parson home. S. Dam to first by bat to left, sending Reilly home. McOsker out on fly by Walsh. Dodge to first on safe bat, *
sending S. Dum home; home by Roberts’ wild ■ wild throw to Clark. Berdel to first by Staley’s error. W. Dum takes first by Sweeney’s error,, sending Berdel to second. Hogan to first by Schuelker’s slow play, filling the bases. Parson to first on balls, forcing Berdel home. W. Dum out. in endeavoring to steal home.	,
Seniors—Walsh to first by safe bat to right. Dar mody to first by Parson’s muff Staley to first by Dodge’s muff Schnelker to first by Reilly’s error. Walsh’s home on the error. Clark out on foul to.-catcher. Sweeney to second on safe bat to left, send--ing Darmody and Staley home. Roberts to first by safe bat to left field, sending Schnelker and Sweeney, home. Leffingwell to first on safe bat. Badeaux. to first, forcing Leffingwell out at second, and. sending Roberts home. Walsh out by the Dum brothers.
FIFTH INNINGS.
Juniors—Hogan to first on balls; second and third bypassed balls; home on a poor throw by Roberts. Parson struck ont.. Taylor to first by Walsh’s muff; home on passed balls. Reilly to first by a safe bat to centre. S. Dum to first by Staley’s poor play; Reilly in the meantime stealing home. McOoker out on a fly to Schnelker. Dodge to first by safe bat near third, sending S. Dum home; steals second. Berdgl ont by Sweeney to Badeaux. Dodge left on Second.
Seniors—Darmody to first by safe bat to centre’; second and third by passed balls. Staley ont on fly to Dodge. Schnelker struck out Clark out on fly to S. Dum. Darmody left on second.
SIXTH INNINGS.
Juniors—W. Dnm to first by Staley’s error; second aud third on passed balls; homeouDarmody’s wild throw. Hogan to first on balls. Parson to first on Leffingwell’s error, sending Hogan to third. H. Taylor out on a fly to Walsh. Reilly to second by safe bat to left, sending Parson and Hogan, home. S. Dum to first by Sweeney’s error, and Reilly to third. McOsker out by Staley’ to Badeaux. Dodge ditto. Reilly home on the play. S. Dum left on second.	’
Seniors—Sweeney out on a fly by S. Dnm. Roberts to first by a very close decision; second on a passed ball. Leffingwell to first by Dodge’s error, Roberts going to third. Badeaux out on foul to catcher. Walsh out by careless play at first. Roberts and Leffingwell left on third and second.
SEVENTH INNINGS.
Junior—Berdel out on fly to Staley—good catch. W. Dnm to second by safe bat over right fielder’s head; third on passed ball; steals home. Hogan out on foul to Roberts. Parsons out on fly to Badeaux.	‘
Senior—Darmody out on first by Hogan to W. Dum. Staley to second by safe bat near third; out in trying to steal third. Schnelker to first on balls. Clarke to first by safe bat near second, sending Schnelker to second. Clarke to second on passed ball. Schnelker to third ongame. Sweeney to first on balls. Roberts out on fool to catcher. Schnelker, Clarke, and Sweeney left.
EIGHTH INNINGS.
Junior—Taylor to first by Sweeney’s muff; round on passed ball. Reilly out on fly to Staley; S. Dum ditto to Sweeney. McOsker to first by Schuelker’s bad play; second and third by passed balls. Dodge to fi rst by Badeaux’s muff; sending McOsker home; to second on passed ball, and third on wild throw. Berdel to second by safe bat to right field, sending Dodge home. W. Dum out on foul to catcher. Berdel left	■	’
Senior—Leffingwell out on liner to Reilly—excellent catch. Badeaux out on fly to Dodge. Walsh to first by S. Dum’s muff Darmody to second by splendid bat, sending Walsh home. Darmody home by wild throw. Staley to first by S. Dum’s error; second and third by passed balls., Schnelker out on foul to catcher. Staley left. s.
8
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
NINTH INNINGS.
Junior—Began to first by Badcaux’s muff—something unusual for him;—steals second and third. Parson to first byLcffingwell’s error; Taylor ditto, sending Bogan home, Parson going to third, and home on passed ball and "wild throw. Reilly out on a fly to Darmody. S. Bum out by Barmody to Badeaux, sending Taylor home. McOsker out on fly to Schnelker.
Senior—Clarke out on fly to S. Bum. Sweeney to third by S. Bum’s wild throw. Roberts to first by safe bat to center field, sending Sweeney home; steals second. Leffingwell to first on balls. Badeaux to first by bat to short stop, forcing Roberts out on third, .and sending Leffingwell to second and home on passed ball. Walsh to first on bat to short field, sending Badeaux home. Barmody out by a good throw of Reilly to W. Bum. -Walsh left on second.
The following is the
scoke :
8TAR OF THE WEST.
O.
STAR OF THE EAST.
o.
R.
S. Bam, a. a.... McOeker, p.... Podge. 1. f. Berdell, r.f.... W. Pnm. 1st b. Hogan. 3db...< Parsons, c. f... Tavlor, c.... Reilly, 2d. b....
4
5
3 3
4
2
Total
3 3 4
I
311
Roberts, p...... Leffingwell, c. f.. Badeaux, 1st b.. Walsh, l.f...... Barmody, c..... Staley, s. s... Schnelker. r. f..
Clarke, 3db.....
Sweeney, 2db...
Total
SCORE BY INNINGS:
6
4 0
7
1 0
3
2
pl
3—20’
■Umpire—Mr. J. FarrelL Time of Game—2:30.
4
3 3
4
3
3 4
7
3 2
3 2
2 1
4
20
Scorers—Messrs. H. Hunt and R. Staley.
Yours truly,
Jack.
A Lady Railroad Contractor.—A Mrs. Conway has been awarded the contract for building a railway in Maryland, and already have her workmen busily engaged in digging, carting and track-laying. This is much the most noteworthy of the recent manifestations of female determination to rival man in fields heretofore exclusively occupied by him. We have become so accustomed to the Western girl who cultivated a farm of forty acres, planting, plowing and irrigating it in manly fashion, that she is no longer an item of interest Also the young' woman who perpetually goes out upon a raging sea in a small boat and rescues shipwrecked sailors, bids fair to exasperate mankind by her wearisome iteration of what was once a pleasing and philanthropic novelty. But a woman who undertakes to build a railway, and proves herself a mistress of grading, ballasting and bridging, who understands the mysteries of “ chairs” and “ switches,” who can oversee gangs of track-laying navvies with discretion and authority, deserves at least a transitory fame.—Picayune.
Epitaphs, Queer and Quaint.
A recent number of Appleton's Journal contains an interesting variety of old epitaphs. Among them are the following. In a church-yard in Cheltenham, England, may be seen in the following, which has appeared in the newspapers with some variations:
Here lies I and my three daughters,
Killed by drinking of the Cheltenham waters;
If we had stuck to the Epsom salts,
We’d not been lying in these here vaults.
The following quaint inscription on a noted beerdrinker may be found in a church-yard in the city of Durham, England:
Beneath these stones repose the bones Of Theodosius Grimm.
He took his heer from year to year, And then his “ bier” took him.
An eccentric old man in Houghton-le-Spring, England, ordered the following inscription to be placed on his tombstone:
Here lies the body of W. W.
Who never more will trouble you, trouble you.
“ Sir ” said Dr. Johnson, “ it is a shame to speak ill of a man behind his back, but I think the gentleman who has just left the room is—an attorney’ I" A similar sentiment as to the prevailing rascality of lawyers of the lower grade is found on the gravestone in Swaffham, Norfolk, England:
Here lieth one, believe it if yon can,
Who, though an attorney, was an honest man.
The gates of heaven shall open wide, But will shut against the tribe beside.
In an epitaph which we have not found in any of the collections, the composer met most ingeniously the impossibility of making the dead man’s name rhyme with the cause of his death: ■
There lies Richard Dunn, Who was killed by a gun; His name was Pryme, But that wouldn’t rhyme.
The following epitaph may be found upon a tombstone in Connecticut:
Here lies cut down like unripe fruit, The wife of Deacon Amos Shute;
She died of drinking too much coffee, Anny Dominy eighteen forty.
The death of Mr. Babbage, the celebrated mathematician, is reported. Sir. Babbage was hardly known to the present generation, except in connection with the persecution to which he was subjected by itinerant organ-grinders, but some thirty or forty years ago high hopes were entertained of his accomplishing a work on which he had set his heart—the construction of a calculating machine. It was, however, never finished. Mr. Babbage was the author of several works on scientific and mathematical subjects.
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY.
St. Mart’s Academy, 1 November 15,1871. j
ARRIVALS.
Miss Angela Rose,	Chicago, Illinois.
“ Isabella Quan,	“	“
TABLE OF HONOR (SR. DEP’T.)
November	—Misses B. Crowley, N. Piatt, V.
Ball, R. Spiers, M. Tompkins, R. Devoto, I. Edwards, C. Latta, D. Willey, B. McCarthy, E. Drake, E. Lafferty.
HONORABLY MENTIONED.
Graduating Class—Misses M. Kirwin, M. Shirland, M. Toberty, M. Dillon, L. Marshall, A Clark, J. Hogue, A Borup, J. Forbes, G. Hurst, H. Tins-iy-
First Senior Class—Misses K. Zell, A. Mast, M. Cochrane, M. Lange, A. Shea, A Todd, El Haymond, K. Brown
Second Senior Class—Misses L. Duffield, N. Duffield, I. Reynolds, E. Rollins, J. Coffey, J. Millis, C. Woods, I. Logan.
Third Senior Class—A. Lloyd, I. Wilder, M. Prince, M. Letourneau, B. Reynolds, M. Armsby, N. Hogue, E. Culver, M. Leonard, J. Walker, M. Wicker, L. Richie, T. Donahue.
First Preparatory Class—Misses A. Emonds, M. McIntyre, K. McMahon, A. St. Clair, G. Kellogg, A. Hamilton, M. Moon, C. Crevliug, N. Sullivan, J. Walsh.
Second Preparatory Class—Misses M. Mooney, H. McLaughlin, M. Nash, F. Moore, M. Pinney, I. Washbum, N. Bower, R. McIntyre, M. Goodbody, M Standard, F. Taylor, J. Luce, L. Eutzler, M. Kelly, E. Brandenburg, E. Wade, B. Wade.
Third Preparatory Class—Misses M. Roberts, A. Hunt, K. Miller, J. Hupps, M Luzon, L. Pfieffer.
Third French Class—Misses M. Lassen, E. Culver.
First German Class—Misses K. Brown, J. Hogue, K. Miller, M. Dillon, E. Rollins.
Second German Class—Misses V. Ball, E. Lafferty, R. Wile, J. Millis.
TABLE OF HONOR—JR. DEP’T.
Nov. 8<7i—Addie Walsh, Angela Sweeny, Clara Germain, Annie Gollhardt, Flora Munn, Mary Sylvester, Katie Fullman, Mary Carlin, Annin Burney, Maud DeLong, Minnie Walsh.
HONORABLE MENTION.
Second Senior Class—Maiy Kearney, Lizzie Niel, Nellie Gross, Annie Clark.
Third Senior Class—Minnie Quan, Julia Kearney, Carrie Davis.
First Preparatory Class—Mary Walter, Bell Gaffney.
L. S. & M. 8. RAILWAY.
SUMMER ARRAKCESIEKT.
“ What a censorious liar,” exclaimed old Mrs. Partington, as she read in a paper an account of a new counterfeit which was said to contain three women and a bust of Washington on each end. “ What,” said she, “ General Washington on a bust? ’tis not so.” And the old lady lifted her specs and declared that she had known the old gentleman for the last thirty years, and she never heard of his being on a bust—much less with three women.
The distinguished geologist, Sir Roderick Murchison, died at his residence in Belgrave-Square, a short time since, at an age of nearly eighty years. Some months ago he was seized with loss of speech, accompanied with difficulty in swallowing. These symptoms, however gradually abated, and his general health continued good until, in taking a ride, he caught cold. This brought on a slight attack of bronchitis, and under it he gradually and quietly sank.
rpRAINS now leave South Bend
'	GOING EAST.
Leave South Bend 10 £8 a. m.
M ”	1222p.m.
“	•*	940 p. in.
* *	“	12.35 a.m.
Leave South Bend 4 05	p.m.
“	“	3.14	a m.
“	M	5.W	a. m.
“	“	442	p m.
as follows:
Arrive atBuffalo 21ft a. m *	'* 11 00 a. m
a	“	2 00p. m
6.30 p.m
GOING WEST.
Arrive at Chicago
7.20 p. m 6 50a.m 8.20 a. m 840 p.m
“ Oh! I see you are afraid of me,” said the Rev. Sydney Smith to a young lady who sat beside him at dinner. “ You crumble your bread, and that is ■ an undeniably proof of shyness. I do it when I sit by the Bishop of London, and with both hands when I sit by the Archbishop.”
The Atkenaum records the discovery of what it describes as the largest diamond yet found in the South African diamond fields. In July last two adventurers, Messrs. Stevens and Raath, are said to have discovered, on the first day of working their claim, a diamond weighing 124 carats. Of the quality of the gem there is no information.
Making connection with nil trains-West and North
£5* For inil details, see the Company's Dosters nmi	-
at the depot and other public places. • P aud Ume tah,ei Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is IS Tninn^. faster than South Bend time.	15 minutea
CHAR?Cleveland,Ohio. CIlARLEd F. BATCH. General Superintendent Cleveland C. P. Lilami. Auditor. Cleveland, Ohio.	Lttveiand.
Dtsuoxn. Snp’t Western Division, Cliieagn DI J W. Cart. General Ticket Agent Cleveland oi,io ’ C. Moxsv, General Passenger Agent. Cliicngo Illinoia M. B. Brown, 1 irket Agent, South Pend. ° ‘	S0"
A. J. Wains, Freight Agent, South Bend’.
I