I
Notre Dame Scholastic.
I
f i	'	~	~ 1	'
X
Disee quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
‘s	______________________________________________ ______________________________
Volume X.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, SEPTEMBER 16, 1876. -	Number 2.
Another August.
That ash tree light of limb
No more shall grace the heather, Nor pine in winter grim, Nor in the summer wither.
The restless youth looks up, His eye dim future showing : “Ah, then ’twas green ; my cup Of joy was overflowing! ”
Fair ladies’ pensive eyes
No more shall gaze thereon ;
The thrush’s sweet surprise
From those dead boughs is gone.
Not cold that heart could smite, With keenest lanee of zero;
’Twas heat with subtler might— Too ardent reckless hero !
Heart, proved in deadly strife, More deathly friendship shivered;
And warmth that wooed to life, Excessive grown, has withered.
Dry August ash, the year
Has changed more than, thy beauty: Another world is here, New life, and hope, and duty.
A. B.
Narcotics.
The study.and history of the various narcotics used by mankind form a mo§t interesting subject not only to the chemist but also to every one who is liable to come under their influences. It is on narcotics in general that I would now speak.
Man, ministering to the wants and cravings of his nature, passes through three stages. In the first he. but seeks to - provide for his material wants and necessities. He does this by means of fruit, grain, and meat. Next, he wishes to soothe all the cares and anxieties of his mind and banish disagreeable reflections. In satisfying this craving, he procures his liquors, his wines and brandies. And lastly, he strives to increase, and for a time at least exalt, his mental and bodily enjoyments by means of the different narcotics.
As all mankind found means to provide for the first two wants, so they have procured their narcotics to provide for the last. And so every nation on the earth, and every race, has either its native or imported narcotic. Ages before Columbus set foot on this Western world, or before Sir Walter Raleigh saw the light of day, did the Indian, as now, dream away his life in smoky reveries. Long years be
fore the Peruvian of to-.day used the coca-leaf, did his Indian ancestor practice that custom. The use of opium, hemp, and the betel-nut among the Eastern Asiatics; that of the pepper-plant in the South Sea islands and the Indian Archipelago; that of thorn-apples in the Andes and the Himalayas; in Europe, of the ledum and the hop; and in Siberia, of the fungus, has its origin in the remotest antiquity.
This is the first and more natural reflection when we consider this subject, the universal use of narcotics. Siberia has its fungus; Turkey. India, and China, their opium; Persia, India, and Turkey, all Africa from Morocco to the Cape of Good Hope, and the Indians of Brazil, their hemp and haschisch; India, China, and the Eastern Archipelago, their betel-nut and betel-pepper; the Polynesian islands, their ava; Peru and Bolivia, their long-used coca; New Granada and the Himalayas, their red thorn-apples; Asia and America, and all the world, one may say, their tobacco; Northern Europe and Armenia, their ledums and sweet gale; the English and Germans, the hop; and the Frenchman his lettuce.	(
“No nation so ancient but has had its narcotic soother, from the most distant times—none so remote and isolated but has found within its own borders a pain-allayer and narcotic care-dispeller of native growth—none so savage which instinct has not led to seek for, and successfully to employ, this form of physiological indulgence. The craving for such indulgence, and the habit of gratifying it, are little less universal than the desire for and the practice of consuming our common food. The tendency to narcotic indulgence, evidently a part of our nature, cannot be suppressed or destroyed, by any physical, fiscal or statutory restraint.”
It has been questioned whether more people are engaged in the raising of the common necessaries of life than in cultivating and preparing these indulgences. No other crops certainly, except corn and cotton, are the subject of a more extensive commerce, and the source of a more extended wealth. Of tobacco, opium, the hop, coca, and betel, aloue, 6,110,000,000 lbs. are yearly produced on about 7,825,000 acres, at a cost of about 427,500,000 dollars. By this we see what is the importance of the influence exercised on the moral labors and commercial intercourse of mankind.
In the effects produced on the human system by the various narcotics, the physiologist finds a most attractive, interesting, useful, and at the same time mysterious study. By what action does hemp produce that diseased condition we call catalepsy, or the thorn-apple the condition in which men see visions and dream dreams, or the fungus the fearful state of the most dreadful nightmares? We can but ask, it is not in our power to answer those ques-
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	.
tions. Yet by means of chemistry we are enabled to find the constituents of these substances, and by it we may find by artificial and chemical means a way to counteract them, to restore the mind to a healthful condition and retain it in that state. If by our narcotics we can produce virtual - insanity, may not real insanity be produced by the same cause within the system itself? If we can cure our virtual insanity by chemical means, why not our real ? It is a question of absorbing interest, but, unfortunately for us, we cannot solve it.
Besides the wonderful action many narcotics exert on the human system, each narcotic exhibits its own effects on man. These effects are many and various, and a description of them would occupy more than would be allowed in an essay of this character. There is also another reflection ■which occurs while on this subject, and that, is the different selections made of narcotics when more than one is easily procured. England uses much hopped beer, Scotland and Ireland but little; Germany and Sweden smoke more than France; opium and haschish, so much loved in the East, is but little used in Europe. In regard to the different forms of the same substance we notice the same selection. France, the North of Scotland, Iceland and Northern Scandinavia are consumers of snuff; England, Germany, Southern Scandinavia, Ireland, and Russia preferred to burn their tobacco and inhale its smoke. It may be said that these are but differences of taste; but national taste, though at times the child of habit, is generally the offspring of constitution and bodily temperament.
The conclusions drawn from a consideration of all our knowledge of the different narcotics, are the following: that there is a universal craving, founded in the nature of man, in the human, race for narcotic indulgences; this craving differs in different countries, being modified by climate, by race, and last and least by opportunity ; that in the individual this craving is also modified, first by individual constitution, and then by opportunity; and lastly that the differences in physiological action between the more dreaded and less dreaded narcotics, the narcotics and the fermented liquors, the mildest and the fiercer alcoholic drinks, the mildest fermented drinks and the teas and coffees. And in conclusion I will but say that, “ with the enticing descriptions before him, which the history of these narcotics presents, we cannot wonder that man, whose constant search on earth is after happiness, and who, too often disappointed here, hopes and longs and strives to fit himself for happiness hereafter—we cannot wonder that he should at times be caught by the twirelly glare of this corporeal felicity and should yield himself to habits which, though exquisitely delightful at first, lead him finally both to torture of body and to misery of mind ; that, debilitated by the excesses to which it provokes, he should sink more and more under the influence of a mere drug, and become at last a slave to its tempting seductions. We are indeed feeble creatures and small in bodily strength, when a grain of haschisch can conquer, or a few drops of laudanum lay us prostrate; but how much weaker in mind, when, knowing the evils they lead us to, we are unable to resist the fascinating temptations of those insidious drugs.”
__________ ______________ M. S.
—Two Hibernians were passing a stable which had a rooster on it for a weather vane, when one addressed the other thus: “ Pat, what’s the reason they didn’t put a hin up there instead of a rooster?” “An’ sure,” replied Pat, “that’s aisy enough; don’t you see it would be inconvainent to go for the eggs.”
Wagner.
It is a difficult thing for a writer of this generation to fix a just estimate of the genius of Richard Wagner. By some, he is undoubtedly overrated—placed far above most musicians, and looked upon as a prodigy having scarcely an equal in the field he has chosen. By others he is decried, and placed on a much lower step on the ladder of fame than his genius deserves. Again, there are others who, belonging to the school of the past, and yet desirous of keeping pace with the progress of the age, do not in so many words deny him. genius, but simply regard him as erratic, and look upon him as the Walt Whitman or Tupper of Music.
For our part, we do not regard him with either admiration intense or with contempt We look upon him as the leader of a new school of music which counts among its followers such men as Lizt, Von Billow and others who, having, by their merit, extorted the praise of their contemporaries, should be allowed some voice in the decision of mankind with regard to questions affecting music.
So much being stated concerning the composer, we condense from Church's Musical Visitor the following account of the grand operatic performance of the great Trilogy at Baireuth: When, thirty years ago, Wagner’s opera of “ Rienzi ” was produced at Dresden, it was but the reflection of the style of his early friend, Meyerbeer. Since that time his artistic nature has cast off all fetters of servile imitation, and the culmination of the labors of a lifetime is found in the great music drama which commenced to-day in this town of Baireuth. The performance of “ Rheingold,” which is the introductory music drama to the “Ring of the Nibelungen,” commenced at seven o’clock this evening and lasted three hours. Long before the prescribed hour for the opening of the festival theatre, all Baireuth was excited, and the vast concourse of visitors was out of doors, eagerly awaiting the moment when they could enter the temple of music, the Walhalla of the lyric art. At seven o’clock eight trumpeters, stationed in the opening or front of the theatre, over the amphitheatre, gave the signal for the commencement of the work, and the echoes of the long trumpet call had scarcely died away toward the distant Fichtelgebirge and-Kulons, when from the “ mystic abyss” the opening strains of the invisible orchestra of Hans Richter floated through the house. To those accustomed to the brilliantly lighted effect of the great opera houses of Europe the appearance of the Wagner theatre was very singular. The auditorium was quite dark, light there being considered by the composer as calculated to distract the attention of his hearers. Another strange feature was the suppression of all outward applause, which is also regarded by Wagner as annoying and destructive to that continuity of thought necessary for the full appreciation and enjoyment of his great work. When the curtain rose on the first scene, the bed of the Rhine, the effect was so life-like that it was difficult for the audience to restrain their delight. The three Rhine nymphs or nixies, Wog-linde, Wellgunde and Flosshilde, appeared, gliding about, singing and chasing each other among the rocks. The “water music,” which accompanies this scene is of that flowing, undulating character that fits the dreamy songs of the nymphs, and is full of charm.	'
“ The appearance of the dwarf, Alberich, and his seizure of the magic *Rheingold ’ formed.the next feature in the

THE NOTBE DAME* SCHOLASTIC.
19
opening scene. From the waters of the Rhine to the mountain tops, on which the gods were discovered slumbering, was a noiseless and remarkable change. Here occurred a long duet between Wotan (Odin), the sun god, and Fricka, his wife, followed by some characteristic music for the giants, Faffner and Fasolt. As the scene progressed, Freia, the goddess of Love and Spring, Froh, her brother, Donner (Thor), Loge, the fire god, and Erda (Earth) were heard, each having some peculiar instrumental motif tty which he or she might be recognized. This phrase, although generally short, partook much of the character of the personage it represented. From the mountains to Nibelheim, the dark abode of Alberich and his dwarf, was a sombre change. The repulsive Alberich monopolizes the greater portion of the music of this scene, and it was a severe test for the baritone voice of Carl Hill, and in which, however, he was entirely successful. The scene ended with the capture of the dwarf king by the sun god and fire god. Back to the mountain again, an agreeable change, especially as in the Nibelheim scene every part of the theatre was in gloom. The gods dragged in their unwilling prisoner and forced him to give up the ring and all his other treasures. The curse which Alberich hurls after the ring is a grand piece of musical declamation, and Herr Hill delivered it with rare effect and emphasis. Erda’s prophecy of the sad ‘twilight of the'gods’ is one of the features of the work, and it received due justice from Mlle. Louise Laide. The appearance of Erda, as she rose up in the midst of the gods, was very picturesque.
The last scene represented the gods crossing over by what was designed to represent a rainbow bridge into the palace of Walhalla, rejoicing at the recovery of their goddess Freia, while from the depths below rose the sweet voices of the Rhine daughters, apostrophising the magic ‘ Rheingold ’ of which they had been robbed. The concluding trio of the nixies was very beautiful.
The scenic effects were grand beyond description. There • was no noise nor delay in the changes of scene; everything worked like a charm. The lighting arrangements of the stage were perfect. The curtain fell on the last scene at ten o’clock. The artists, one an'd all, acquitted themselves to the satisfaction of the maestro himself, and Hans Richter deserves all praise for the admirable manner in which he handled the orchestra and led his 120 instrumentalists safely through the intricacies of the score.
The second performance at Wagner’s Festival Theatre, on the 14th, proved to be a more pronounced success than its predecessor. ‘ Rheingold,’ being only an introduction to the great musical drama, it could not be expected to possess the same degree of interest as any of the trinity of operas that compose the‘Ring of the Nibelungen.’ On the second night, at the presentation of the ‘Walkdre,’ there was the same eager crowd of visitors and the same profound attention at the theatre during the representation. The auditorium was darkened as before, but silence had to give way to rounds of applause in some of the scenes.
The curtain rose while the last notes of the VorspieL floated up from the ‘ mystic abyss,’ and the dreary ball of Hunding, with a large tree in the centre, was unfolded to view. This scene was exceedingly sombre, more so even than the music in which Ortrud and Telramund reproach each other in the beginning of thesecond act of‘Lohengrin.’ There were some suggestions of lovely melody here and there in the commencement, but they were of an evanescent character. Sieglinde, represented by Madame Schefzky,
proved'to be a very ungrateful role, as it was permeated with the deepest melancholy, and there seemed not to be a single ray of light to dispel its gloom. Hunding (Herr Nierihg) was scarcely better, although cast in a more robust form of music. The passion and expression infused into the role of Siegmund by the celebrated Berlin tenor, Niemann, and the varying themes, always clad in the richest orchestral raiment, of the unhappy son of Wotan, formed the main attraction of the first act.
One of the grandest effects ever produced on the stage was the camp of the Walkilren in the third act. The war maidens on horseback, each with a slain warrior lying across her saddle bow, dashed across the stage among crags and fir trees, all singing the wild chant, the Walkure motif, brandishing their spears and shaking their burnished shields.
The close of the opera, however, was the principal feature of the performance. As Brunnhilde sank into her magic slumber the fire god appeared at the command of Wotan, and as the noble voice of Betz declaimed forth the words, ‘Loge hot I’ the stage, auditorium, and the surrounding plaza became crimsoned with light. It was the most perfect illusion ever witnessed on any stage. One would imagine that an immense conflagration was in progress. On this scene the curtain closed for the last time, and then the enthusiasm of the audience reached fever pitch. Wagner.was repeatedly called for, but it was of no avail. He would not appear before his admirers. Then calls were made for the artists, but they also declined to acknowledge the tribute paid to them. The performance commenced at four o’clock, the signal being given in front of the theatre by eight trumpeters, as on the previous evening. At the close of each act there was an intermission of an hour, during which time the audience betook themselves to different parts of the town, returning to their seats whep the well-known trumpet call was heard. The curtain fell on the last act at half past nine o’clock.
The climax of the performances of the “Ring of Nibelun-gen” was attained to-night by a magnificent representation of “ Siegfried,” the second opera of Wagner’s Trilogy. It is the most important feature of the cycles, as around its central figure, the legendary hero Siegfried, are grouped all the supernatural beings of Walhalla as accessories. The performance was of unusual length, lasting seven hours and a half. If you deduct from this two hours of intermission between the acts, there will remain five hours and a half of solid music.
The sword song, and the forging of the sword of Siegmund by Siegfried in the first scene, was sung with wonderful effect, and the feelings of the audience could not be restrained. The applause was overwhelming. The scene between Siegfried and the wood bird, after the slaying of the giant Faffner by the former, was one of wondrous musical beauty. The part of the Waldvogel (wood bird) was was sung by a boy behind the scenes. Fantastic though the introduction of such a feature in opera may appear, the manner in which it is developed musically is very ingenious, decidedly novel, and incontestibly charming.
The grand duet, at the close of the opera, between Brunnhilde and Siegfried, when he awakes her from her magic slumber and dispels the flames that surround her again aroused the enthusiasm of every one present. The roles of the hero and the Valkyr are, without exception, the most trying that can be found in the whole range of opera. Few voices could hope for a successful rendering
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of the music, and two such representations in succession in two daily newspapers named The World and The
would go far toward ruining the most robust voice ever given to a human being.
The last performance of the series was as great a success praise to the attention of the public. The book was en-as any of the preceding nights. The last opera of the j titled “The Album,” and was published by Bell, the printer, trilogy, ‘ Gotterdammerung’ (Twilight of the Gods), pro- These effusions, though weak and puerile, were received
duced even a greater sensation than either of its predecessors. The same concourse of distinguished people attended the representation. We have no space left for the notice which the occasion really deserves, but will go to the closing scenes of the great festival.
The Wagner banquet on the 18th was a splendid affair, both in point of numbers and in the character of the guests. No fewer than 500 persons were present.
Herr Wagner made a long speech, explanatory of his words uttered during the festival previous to this evening. The remarks then indulged in meant only that, France, and Italy having operas of their own, Germany wished that she, too, could now have a new lyric and dramatic art. He then thanked the artists, to whom all were indebted.
As he finished, the guests and the public outside of the hall applauded to the echo, and cried, ‘Hoch! Hoch! liochl Wagner,’ in the usual demonstrative way. Wagner was then escorted about the hall, the guests rising and saluting"him as he passed. Mme. Lucca and his wife were with him. At the end of his walk, his Milan publisher placed a silver crown made in imitation of laurel leaves on his head. The composer was deeply touched, and made a second speech expressive of the great impression which the festival had produced upon him. Deputy Duacker, of Berlin, made a most happy address. Warm congratulations were also extended to Wagner by Von Beust and M. Apponyi. Then Wagner paid a glowing tribute to Herr Liszt, his old friend and teacher, saying that but for that great man, no note would ever have been heard from him. The venerable Liszt rose, and said, with much emotion, ‘ Other countries greet Dante and Shakspeare,’ and then, turning to Wagner, ‘so am I your most obedient servant.’ He was visibly affected. After this touching scene, Wagner, amid great merriment and informal intercourse, commenced in endless hand shaking with all those present. There was no end of kissing, and the scene was exceedingly unique, and aptly illustrated the artistic fraternity and good humor of the assemblage. The demonstration was more expressive of real interest in, and gratification at the success of the performance than anything yet witnessed. The whole affair was a fitting close to a grand festival.
The Della Cruseans.
No queerer school of poets, or rather of poetasters, ever appeared in the history of all literature than that of the Della Cruscan, which arose in England towards the close of the last century. The two things for which they were most conspicuous were their bad taste and their high-flown panegyrics of each other.
It seems that a number of these writers, by chance, had assembled together for a short while at Florence, where they edited a volume entitled “ The Florence Miscellany.” After leaving that city, they, with a number of their admirers and imitators, began in England the publication of their odes, elegies, epigrams, songs, sonnets, epistles, etc.,
Oracle. From these newspapers they were collected and published in a volume which was commended with great
with considerable favor until they at length received the attention of Gifford, who severely satirized them in the “ Bariod,” which appeared in 1794. This brilliant author followed up his attack on the Della. Cruscan school by the publication in 1796 of the Maeviad, a most powerful satire> in which he slashed the Della Cruscan authors with a severity which was as great as it was merited.
The name Della Cruscan was given to the whole tribe of these rhymesters from Della Grusca, the nom de plume of a Mr. Robert Merry, because he was, probably, the most notorious of all of them. This gentleman had travelled considerably in Europe and had been elected a member of the celebrated Florentine Academy Ddla Gruscan, founded for the purpose of purifying the Italian language. In assuming the name, Merry in all probability had no reference to the society, but wished all to understand that what he should write should be free from chaff, and as exquisite as was possible from an English pen. He was not the first of these writers whose compositions delighted the readers of the World and the Oracle, for Gifford says: “While the Epidemic malady was spreading from fool to fool, Delia Grusca came over from Italy and immediately announced himself in a sonnet to Love. Anna Matilda wrote an incomparable piece of nonsense in praise of it; and two ‘great luminaries of the age,’ as Mr. Bell calls them, fell desperately in love with each other.. From that period, not a day passed without an amatory epistle, fraught with lightning and thunder, el quidquid lidbent tdorem armamentria cadi. The fever turned to frenzy; Laura, Maria, Carlos, Orlando, Adelaide, and a thousand ether nameless names caught the infection; and from one end of the kingdom to the other, all was nonsense and ‘Della Cruscan.’”
Among the writers of this school besides Mr. Merry are two gentlemen of property and good family, Messrs. Bertie Greathead and William Parsons. Mr. Edward Jer-ningham, who wrote under the name of “ The Bard,” was the author of a number of plays and poems. Another of the school was Mills Peter Andrews, who wrote a large number of prologues and epilogues. Mr. Edward Topham, the proprietor of the World, and Rev. Charles Este, or, as Gifford calls him, “ Monosoph Este,” the leading editors of that journal, were distinguished leaders of the school, while among the lesser lights were Mr. John Williams (Tony Pasquin) Thomas Adney (Mit or Mot Yenda) Thomas Vaughan (Edwin), Joseph Weston, Frederick Pilon, and James Cobbe. James Boswell, afterwards celebrated as the author of the life of Johnson, as well as the dramatists O’Keefe, Sheridan, Morton, Reynolds, Holcroft and George Coleman the younger were in their early youth partizans of the school, but later on 'in life scorned their connection with the folly, and lived to establish their reputations as writers of ability.
The school numbered among its members a large number of followers, the most distinguished of whom were Mrs. Thrale-Piozzi, the widow of Johnson’s friend, but at the time the wife of the music-teacher to his daughter; Mrs. H. Cowley, who wrote under the name of “ Anna Matilda,” and was later on in life celebrated as the authoress of the clever play called the “ Belle’s Stratagem ”; and
«
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
21
the notorious Mrs. Robinson, who, notwithstanding her levity, was possessed of great literary talent and poetic feeling.
After the publication of Gifford’s great satires the Della Cruscan school fell to pieces, and it is now only known in connection with them.
Geology and the Development Theory.
Materialists, who do not recognize the creation of man .by the hands of God, try to explain his origin in their own way. Some maintain that he has been brought forth directly by the power of nature, others suppose him to be developed from some already existing species.
One and we might say the chief supporter of the first opinion is Professor Lorentz Oken, and the principal representatives of the second are the “Darwinists.” We say Darwinists, because, as von Cotta says: “Darwin has purposely limited his theory in not following out the organic differences of form to their first beginning and last consequences. And nowhere in Darwin’s writings do we find it expressly said that man is the developed ape. What Darwin said is, that by natural and artificial selection one species may be developed into another.”
Oken teaches that every organized living being comes from the sea. “ This is a truth,” says he, “ which no one, who in any way claims the name of naturalist and philosopher, can deny.” Listen to the story of Oken, describing the origin of man: “ A child of two years would be able to keep up life if it had plenty of food near by, for at that time it would have teeth and could already walk. Embryos of man are formed in the sea by thousands. The young embryo developes itself and becomes a child, which when two years old is thrown on the shore; there it flees to the high land, where it digs out worms and roots on which to live. Why should not this ‘Meermensch’ [as he calls it] give forth sounds of joy as well as sounds of pain? Who can doubt this for a moment? Language grows out of man, as he himself grew out of the sea. That children grow out of the sea, and develop themselves afterwards on the high land is, then, shown.” But, Mr. Oken, how do they get into the sea ? “ Surely not from the outside, since everything in the organic world originates from the sea. They have then been developed in the sea.” But how is that possible ? “Very easy to explain! Without doubt, just as other animals are produced in the sea, at the present day. As, for example, Infusoria and Meduste.”
Such in a few words is the teaching of Professor Oken, a man of great talent and erudit ion, and one who in Natural History has especially distinguished himself. But no one can suppose that Oken himself believed the tenth part of what he has written concerning the origin of man. But you may ask what, then, makes him develop such a story? Oken could not explain the origin of man in a way favorable to his theory,—that all organized living beings come from the sea,—aud the result was that he dismissed this intricate question with a joke.
To attempt a refutation of Oken’s theory would be unreasonable, and would simply be subject-matter for laughter. Even Darwin himself says: “Is there anything, that would favor the belief, that inorganic elements could produce a living being, without the co-operation of organic beings, simply by the influence of some known force? They have blamed me,” he says, “for using in a scientific
work, the expression of the Pentateuch, when I speak of the ‘Lifegiving breath ’ being introduced into a prototype.” This theory of Darwin, of the Lifegiving Breath being introduced into a prototype, is almost as faulty as that of Oken; for at least Darwin seems to recognize a Creator. The theory of Darwin, as it runs, means this: There was one prototype created, and from this all animals, man also, are developed; and this is what is meant by the theory termed the development theory of Darwin.
Oken in another part of his works says: “There are two kinds of generation in the world, creation proper and propagation that is sequent thereon, or the original and secondary generation. Consequently no organism is, or ever has been created, which is not microscopic. Whatever is large has not been created thus, but developed, first from the brute, and the brute itself from some other smaller animal as a mollusk or monad, which itself has been smitten into life by the action of electricity upon a portion of gelatinous matter.”
What nonsense! What blasphemy! To hear a man, a rational creature created by the hands of God,defiling himself with such language! To see a man endowed with Reason, the noblest of faculties, prostituting this Reason, dragging it in the mire of materialism, and proclaiming God a liar! We may say with Professor Agassiz in his book on the “ Methods of Study in Natural History,” that “ although man looks heavenward, nevertheless is rooted deeply in the animal kingdom, in him we have the dawning of those family relations, those intimate ties between parents and children, on which the whole social organization of the human race is based. Man is the crowning work of God on earth; but though so nobly endowed, we must not forget that we are the lofty children of a race whose lowest forms lie prostrate within the water, having no higher aspiration than the desire for food, and we cannot understand the possible degradation and moral wretchedness of man, without knowing that his physical nature is rooted in all the material characteristics that belong to his type and link him even to the fish. The moral and intellectual gifts that distinguish him from them, are his to use or to abuse; he may, if he will, abjure his better nature and be vertebrate more than man. He may sink as low as the lowest of his type, or he may rise to a spiritual height that will make that which distingushes him from the rest a far more controlling element of his being than that which unites him with them.”
If the theory ycleped the development theory be true, then we ought to find in the earliest geological ages beings miscroscopic in size and lowest in structure; but if we find, instead of mere embryos, full-grown and mature beings, then we must hold that the testimony of Geology is not only not in accordance with the development theory, but is in positive opposition to it. Regard the Asterolepis of Strommer, described by Hugh Miller in his book entitled the “Footprints of the Creator,” and see whether it is a mere embryo, or attained at least the ordinary bulk, and for its class an average organization of the finny tribe; and yet this is one of the earliest vertebrates. All hypotheses’ and theories of the origin of life when tested by other sciences are unstable except in so far as they agree with the one great theory of Moses as laid down in the first book of Genesis, written by inspiration from on high, and which must be true since it contains the words of Him who said: “ Heaven and earth shall pass away, but My word shall not pass away.”	A. M. K.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Art, Music and Literature.
—Pope’s famous villa at Twickenham is for sale.
—The Wagner festival closed with a deficit of 400,000 francs.
—“English Traits” will be the next volume in Osgood’s “Little Classic” edition of Emerson’s works.	'
—The author of “ Clytie,” Mr. Joseph Hatton, is coming to this country to write a new novel of American life.
—The Tycho Brahe, the famous Danish astronomer, has just been honored with a statue-monument at Copenhagen.
—A collection of stories for American boys, about “ Boys of Other Countries,” by Bayard Taylor, will be published soon.
—Mr. Schuyler’s book on Central Asia, and one by Capt. Barnaby on the same subject, will both appear in October.
—The silver question has been further illuminated by a little treatise of Herr Cohnstadt—“Zur Silberfrage: eine Studie,” just out at Frankfort-on-the Maine.
—One of the early volumes of the “ Sans Souci Series ” will be a life of Shelley, made up out of previous lives and more recent material, by Mr. Stoddard himself.
—A monument has been unveiled in Paris to the artist Henri Regnault and his fellow-pupils of the Ecole des Beaux-Arts; who fell during the siege of the city.
—The fertile Hungarian novelist, Moritz lokai, has published the enormous number of 160 volumes, but not satisfied with that number is now composing two romances.
—Prof. J. Morgan Hart, now of the University of Cincinnati, has just finished another volume of his series of German classics. The name of the new volume is “ Goethe’s Select Prose.”
—The British Museum library expended in 1874 £9,996 on printed books, and £3,074 on manuscripts. In 1875 the purchase of printed books amounted to £10,201, and of manuscript to £2,948.
—Herr Zumbusch, the sculptor, has just completed, for his Majesty the King of Bavaria, marble statues of six of Wagner’s heroes. They represent Tannhauser, Lohengrin, the Flying Dutchman, Walter Von Stolzing, Seigfried, and Tristan.
—There is to be a new issue of Mrs. Anne Grant’s “ Memoirs of an American Lady,” with a life of the author and notes, by James Grant Wilson. This book is a fair picture of manners and scenery in America before the American Revolution.
—The Paris wits are not done with the Wagner festival. Here is one of the latest squibs: A ticket speculator offers a visitor a ticket for Wagner’s first night: “Fifty francs? That’s awfully dear.” “Possibly, but this is for the best seat in the house.” “ Where ? ” “ Nearest the door.”
—A historical work has been undertaken by the Fathers of the London Oratory, at the instance of Cardinal Manning. It is to be entitled “Documents Concerning the History of the Church in England During the Times of Persecution,” the period thus designated being the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries.
—It is stated that Lord Edmond Fitzmaurice will print, in his new volume of his life of his grandfather, which is to appear in England in October, a map of North America, showing the partition of that continent between England, Spain, and the United States, proposed by France in 1782, and rejected by the United States.
—The copy of Beaumont and Fletcher which Charles Lamb used in making his selections for the “ Specimens of Early English Dramatic Poets” was sold in London a few ’ days ago. It was printed in 1679, and has markings of the extracts and manuscript corrections in Lamb’s handwriting. It was purchased for the British Museum.
—John M. Loretz, Jr., composer of The Pearl of Bagdad, has almost completed his grand opera entitled Ivanhoe, on which he has been engaged for some years. The ochestra-tion, as far as done, is said to be extremely beautiful in its rich coloring. The young and talented composer purposes
to have'his new work produced in Paris at an early day. —American Art Journal.
—John M. Loretz Jr., composer of The Pearl of Bagdad, has almost completed his grand opera entitled Ivanhoe, on which he has been engaged for some years. The orchestration, as far as done, is said to be extremely beautiful in its rich coloring. The young and talented composer purposes to have his new work produced in Paris at an early day.—American Art Journal. ’
—Henry Mayhew, writing of “Jerrold’s London,” describes Jerrold as a young Adonis with hair “the color of ripe corn, large full unfathomable blue eyes, exquisitely chiselled Roman nose, skin fair and smooth as a baby’s, and fresh-looking as new-shed rose leaves,’’—altogether more like “ a good-tempered dare-devil of a young middy ” than a man living by the hardest of literary labor.
—A recent work, “ German Composers from Sebastian Bach to the Present Time,” having been favorably received in Germany, a similar one by Dr. Emil Naumann, entitled “ Italian Composers from Palestrina to the Present Time,” has just been issued in Berlin. In view of the interest which the Bayreuth performances have aroused and the controversies they are likely to provoke, both the above works seem to be timely.
—The Philadelphia Festival will consist of eight evenings and two matinee performances. The programme will embrace Wagner’s Inauguration March, Buck’s Cantata, Paine’s Hymn, Bach’s Triple Concerto, Beethoven’s Buins of Athens, march and chorus. The special features will be a Mozart, Beethoven, and Wagner night. The Women’s Centennial Chorus has been rehearsing and training for two weeks past under Mr. Thomas.—American Art Journal.
—At the Westminster Aquarium is the original plate of the bank note of George Cruikshank, which is said to have put a stop to hanging for passing forged notes. He saw two women executed for that offence, and he made a promissory note, signed “J. Ketch,” with ghastly accessories of fetters, halter and gibbet, and Britannia, with skulls and crossbones for a border. Such a crowd surrounded the shop where copies were sold that the Lord Mayor ordered the street to be cleared.
—Denmark has lost one of the ablest of her younger . philologists in JDr. Richard Christiansen, who died on the 2d inst, at the village of Vebaek, in attempting to save the life of a drowning child. He had but lately married the well-known artist Miss Athonore Tscherning. His latest was a volume of Opuscula Latina, printed by the University of Copenhagen, which opens with a monograph by Dr. Christiansen on certain points involved in the relation of Athens to the smaller Greek states.
—Last month, says the Augsburger Allgemeine Zeitung, an exhibition of Schiller’s relics was opened in a room in the Johanneum of Hamburg. Various articles belonging to to Schiller and his nearest relations, family portraits, water-color drawings by his sister Christophine, etc., are among the objects shown. There are twenty-three autograph letters of Schiller’s: The first, dated Sept. 1, 1782, a petition to the duke of Wurtemburg and Teck; the last letter addressed by the poet to his sister Louise, and dated March 27,1803. In it he complains of his failing health.
—The French National Library has just come into possession of some very curious documents. Owing to a legacy made to it, it has just received the voluminous correspondence of Napoleon III with his foster-sister, Madame Cornu. The communications commence, says the Fran^ais, at the moment when Prince Louis was 10 years old, and the last letter was written by the Emperor two months before his death. By the will of Madame Cornu those papers are not io be published before 1885, consequently they were immediately placed under seals. The testatrix has indicated as editor of that publication M. Renan, or, in default of him, M. Duruy.
—One of the greatest bibliographic treasures in the world is in the collection of the Prince de Ligue, France. The title of the book is Liber Passionis Domini nostri Jesu Christi cum characteribus nuUa materia compositis. This book is neither written nor printed, but all letters have been carefully cut out from the finest parchment and pasted

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
23
upon blue paper. The text is as legible as the best print. The patience and endurance evinced by the artist at the ■work must have been extraordinary, especially when the small size of the letters, of which the beauty is really marvellous, is considered. The German Emperor Rudolph the Second offered 11,000 ducats for it, an enormous sum in his time. A very remarkable feature of this book is, that it bears the English coat of arms,-although it has never been known that it came from England or that it ।	ever has been there.
—We learn from the New York Freeman's Journal that the third annual convention of the St. Cecilia Society was opened at Baltimore on Tuesday, the 22d of August, as previously announced: On Wednesday morning, at seven o’clook, solemn High Mass was celebrated for the deceased members of the Society, and at ten o’clock Right Rev. Bishop Becker pontificated in the Cathedral, Most Rev. Archbishop Bayley, Right Rev. Bishops Lynch, Kane and Seidenbusch, and many priests from all- parts of the country, being present. The Mass sung was Dr- Witt’s In Honorem Goncilii (Ecumenici Vaticani, in six parts, without organ accompaniment. At the conclusion of Mass, Rev. John J. Keane, of St. Patrick’s Church, Washington, D. C., welcomed the Society in the name of the Most Rev. Archbishop Bayley, whom ill health alone prevented from addressing them in person, as he took a great interest in the work in which they were engaged—the reform of church music, and which h: desired to see established in every parish of his diocese. In this he was united with all the hierarchy throughout the world, who desired that the music in the churches should be more worthy of its sacred character, and the Holy Father Himself had shown his sym-• pathy with the movement by giving the Society his special blessing. Father Keane’s sermon was a most eloquent one; the importance of the cause in which he spoke seemed to have evoked the most ardent feelings, and his words were but the expression of the sentiments of his heart. In the Il	afternoon of Wedneseay, the 2-3d, during one of the meet-
ings of the Society, in response to a cable despatch sent to the Holy Father, an answer was received from Cardinal Antonelli stating that the Pope cordially bestowed his blessing upon the organization. This announcement was received with cheers. In the evenins the second concert took place at St. James’. Two High Masses were celebrated on the morning of the 24th, in St. Alphonsus’ and St. Michael’s, then followed a public rehearsal, after which another meeting closed the Convention. At one of the meetings the Secretary, Rev. J. Young, reported that there are now 1,680 members, against 983 last jrear; 48 parish choirs against 28 last year; and 33 honorary members, among whom are His Eminence Cardinal McCloskey, Most Rev. Archbishops Purcell, Bayley, Wood, and Williams; Right Rev. Bishops Lynch, Becker, Ryan, D wen-ger, Borgess, Kane, and others. It is truly gratifying to notice that the work of church music reform, inaugurated by the Society some years ago is making such steady and rapid strides, and we hope ere long to see it universally
■ adopted.
Books and Periodicals.
—The September number of Church's Nusical Visitor contains a full account of the great Wagner Festival, and many other interesting articles, including one entitled “ About Pianofortes,” which imparts a vast amount of valuable information in the most pleasant manner possible. The editorial articles, correspondence, etc., in this number, are fully up to the standard of this excellent musical monthly, and in the matter of music it surpasses all predecessors. We have in this number a new song by Bliss, entitled"Arise and Shine;” a peculiar piano piece, called “ Danse Macabre; ” a song by the popular writer, George W. Persley, entitled “Little Log Cabin is Gone;” and the beautiful “Persian March,” by Strauss. In addition, there are several pages selected from H. R. Palmer’s new work, “The Song Herald.” The Visitor's plan for determining who are the most popular composers is attracting much interest, and the result will be announced in the October
number. The publishers of the Visitor contemplate a number of important improvements in the journal for the new volume, which begins next month. Subscription prjee, $1.50, with premium. Sample, with full particulars, will be sent on receipt of stamp. Address John Church & Co., Cincinnati, Ohio.
“ The Whippoorwill.” Song Book for Public Schools and Juvenile Classes. By W. O. Perkins. Boston, Mass.: Oliver Ditson & Co., 1876.
We doubt not that Mr. Perkins’ new bid for favor among the Juvenile portion of the community will meet with the success it deserves. He has filled one hundred and eighty pages with cheerful, lively music that will not fail in making it popular in every school into which it may be introduced". Besides the many songs on “ School subjects ” and <>n more general ones such as Chippenaye, Our Uncle Sam, Snow Song, Farmer’s Song, Aim High, Morning Glories, Little by Little, Switzer’s Call, Catch it on the Fly, Little Weavers, Splash! Splash! Splash! the book contains an excellent elementary course of music with plenty of exercises. The cover-picture, printed on bright paper, is quite attractive and pretty.
“ Golden Bricks.” No. 2. By Mark M. Pomeroy. Published Monthly by Mark M. Pomeroy, Chicago, III. Price 10 cents.
To those who have read Mr. Pomeroy’s Saturday Night Letters it is only necessary to say that “ Golden Bricks’’ are a republication of these excellent letters’in pamphlet form, four or more in each number; to those who have not read them as issued weekly in tbe Democrat, we would say that they are in reality what the author styles them, Golden Bricks, golden bits of advice with pointed illustrations from actual, everyday life. The second number of these pamphlets, now before us, contains four of the Saturday Night chapters, entitled respectively: “With a Child to Lead Him,” “Making a Bargain,” “Little Drops of Water,” “Here I Is, Papa!” all written in an elegant, pleasing style. One number seen and read, the others will undoubtedly be secured, for the matter and the style of these unpretending little volumes make them very entertaining as well as instruclive. They will be in number about one hundred, all uniform in size and price.
—“The captains of the river-crafts,” says Irving, in his legend of the Storm-Ship, “talk of a little bulbous bottomed Dutch goblin, in trunk-hose and sugar-loaf hat, with a speaking trumpet in his hand, which, they say-keeps the Donder Berg. They declare that they heard him in stormy weather, in the midst of the turmoil, giving or- . ders in Low Dutch for the piping up of a fresh gust of* wind, or ihe'rattltng off of another thunder clap. Sometimes he has been seen surrounded by a crew of little imps in broad breeches and short doublets, tumbling head over heels in the rack and mist, and playing a thousand gambols in the air, or buzzing like a swarm of flies about Anthony’s nose; and that at such times the hurry-scurry of the storm was always greatest.” The romancer tells us that at one time a terrible thunder-gust burst upon a sloop when passing the Donder Berg, and she was in the greatest peril. Her crew saw at the mast-head a white sugar-loaf hat, and knowing that it belonged to the goblin of the Donder Berg, dared not to climb to get rid of it. The vessel sped swiftly through the Highlands into Newburg bay, when the little hat suddenly spring up, whirled the clouds into a vortex, and hurried them back to the Donder Berg. “There is another story told of this foul-weather urchin,” says the romancer, “ by Skipper Daniel Ouseesl-ticker, of Fishkill, who was never known to tell a lie. He declared that in a severe squall, he saw him seated astride of his bowsprit, riding the sloop ashore, full butt against Anthony’s nose, and that he was exercised by Dominie Van Giesen, of Esopus, who happened to be on board, and who sung a hymn of St. Nicholas, whereupon the goblin threw himself up in the air like a ball, and went off in a whirlwind, carrying away with him the night-cap of the dominie’s wife, which was discovered next Sunday morning hanging on the weather-cock of Esopus church steeple, at least forty miles oS—Benson J. Dossing.
24	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
JVoti’e Dame, September 16, 1876.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, Ind., and of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the tenth year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
Besides the Local News which will appear weekly, the readers of the SCHOLASTIC 'will find in it many Literary and Scientific articles of general interest.
Terms, $1.50 Ter Annum, Postpaid.
Address Editor Notre Dame Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind.
Discipline.
In younger days we have.read both Hobbs and Smith and Rousseau and Hume; we have heard of social compacts and mutual agreements and free concessions and unanimous appointments, and a score of other things of similar importance or insignificance, all intended to form or explain the formation of society. We are not a philosopher, and what is more we don’t care to be considered one. Our doctrine is that men should, nay, must, live in society. In that society we must have authority. That authority supposes submission, and from these two as causes we have order, right, happiness and justice as the result.
If this be social philosophy, be it so; if not, it can’t be helped so far as we are concerned. It is as far as we can go in philosophy. The development of these ideas sets forth all the necessity and beauties of social organization. To object to these principles is to not understand one’s own nature, upset society, and oppose one’s wisdom to that of God Himself. -
Divided as mankind is into superiors and inferiors, the necessity of this distinction once admitted, the next thing to examine is the duties of each. If to be a superior, no matter what his peculiar title, meant nothing- else than to command at random, display power and wield authority according to the dictates of simple caprice, then many rulers, instead of being regarded as they now perhaps justly are, as a reproach to human reason, would be clothed in all the glory of sages. But the reality is that recklessness untempered by charity or affection and uncontrolled by law, should never enter into the mind of the man in power. There is no art more difficult than that of commanding. It is one which cannot be acquired. Like the divine spark which distinguishes the man of genius, in other branches it must come from Heaven. The ruler is a father. The authority which he uses is not his own. Those whom he commands, though subject to him, are far less his inferiors than his children. The perfect family on earth, next to heaven, is the model of the perfect society. The care, the solicitude, the watching, the prudence which bring forth success are the portion of the front girt with authority.
When the man who rules governs to appearances with the least show of power, which he does when he practices the virtues of his position, then Jie governs best. Reason guides his words, caution, affection and a heartfelt sense of duty his actions. His will pervades society as like the atmosphere. He never grows by lapse of years into a false conceit of self-importance nor degenerates into a doting tyrant, his wisdom, virtue and devotedness increasing with his days. He has a great, a noble, a godlike duty to perform, and his recompense in heaven, nay, on earth, is commensurate with his merits. The good ruler is less feared than loved.	.
But for the great mass of the world, the most important thing to be considered is the duties of the governed. The pride of men and the exalted ideas which they generally cherish of their own wisdom and capacity exposes them to all those vices and excesses which have so often proved the ruin of states and the demoralization of the human family. Mankind in general, considered in a social sense, require to be guided, to be instructed aud to be corrected. In the family they fall beneath the influence of the parent; in the school they must trust to their master; in the army to their captain, and in the state to the Government; but in all cases they must look to those above them for guidance and for wisdom in the direction of their conduct, else they act as those unwise. All authority comes from the Almighty and hence should command respect. It is a manifestation in sec md causes of the Divine will, and should-be obeyed. It is the institution of the wisdom of God established for our good, and should therefore be loved. The just man, then, feels not the weight of the law. It is the vice of the human heart that makes authority irksome. When disorders do occur in society it is to this source they can invariably be traced. Tyranny brings'revolution, and insubordination brings forth tyranny. The abuse of power and corruption of the Bourbons gives rise to the Revolution. A patient and chivalrous nation bears, until forbearance can scarce deserve our praise. Crushed and downtrodden, it at last bursts its bonds, lifts aloft its giant limbs and in its frenzy deals to corrupt potentates the wild justice of revenge. But when the storm subsides, and the demon of disorder has done its worst and no man knows or respects authority, then arises a tyranny more dire, dreadful, calamitous and enduring than that which revolution had cloven to the earth. What secures the peace, prosperity, happiness and progress of the human family, is well-organized society, where all practice with equal care the virtues and fulfil the duties of their station— the governor, by his wisdom, his prudence, his kindness and his firmness; the governed, by their docility, their confidence and their affection.
Integrity.	.
Moral soundness or purity is a thing which, we are sorry to say, is not generally cultivated. The press may thunder against corruption in high places and petty thieving among lower officials, but it has no effect in purifying the State. Corruption and thieving go on the same. One official who has been detected in fraudulent dealings or downright stealing is removed, but only to make way for another, who, empty-handed on entering offi:e, has a greater grab to make into the public treasury. Detection and exposure may stop for a short time systematic plunder, but in a short
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
while it is found to be as great as ever. What is the cause of this state of affairs, which even the heaviest penalties of the law and the indignation of all righteous men are unable to reform, and which threatens the very safety of the Republic? It must be that we look for it in the general culture which the young men of our age receive, not alone in the schools for instruction in letters, but also in that greater school of the world.	.
Public opinion has been corrupted. The petty thief is held in indignation and is regarded as deserving the full penalties of the law, while the great criminal who by trickery or a flaw in the law is enabled to rob his country of millions is looked upon by the mass of the people as a shrewd man of business. Trade has of late years in many cases ceased to be an honest means of acquiring a competence. It has become depraved, and in many cases a gentlemanly means for gambling. Boards of trade and similar institutions have become to a certain extent the occasions for men, by sharp manipulations, to acquire fortunes which are no more honestly acquired than those obtained at the faro-bank. The young man is taught to look upon these business exploits of speculators as honest; they are held up to him as things worthy of imitation. The stock-gambler, the gold-gambler and the grain-gambler is regarded as the most respectable man of the town, and all fall down to worship him. The man who by trickery and fraud acquires wealth, at the same time acquires respectability and the reputation of being a shrewd business-man. Is it any wonder, then that the official who sees the dishonest business-man succeed, is tempted to be dishonest and imitate their acts in his dealings with the public treasury?
In order that the people of our country may return to the path of honesty which for the last sixteen years they have deserted, it is necessary to have corruption, fraud and trickery in all business transactions frowned down; to have young men educated to look upon the man of integrity, and not the man of success, as his model; to hold up the Fisks, the Jay Goulds and Jay Cookes as men unworthy the admiration of their fellow-citizens; to educate them up to a high moral standard which can brook nothing that savors of trickery or fraud; to make them understand that money is not the sole thing worthy man’s struggle for in this world, but that a good honest name is far above “ all the wealth of Ormus or of Ind.” To stem the tide of corruption it is necessary that the people recognize those high principles of morality which the Church demands of all men, and to follow them.
What breaks down Young Men.
It is a commonly but erroneously received notion that hard study is an unhealthy element of college life. But the tables of mortality of any institution will clearly demonstrate that the excess of deaths for the first decade of years after graduation is found is that portion of the class of inferior scholarship. Among those who have passed with distinction, the death-rate is much smaller during the same period of time. It is well known by all who have seen the curriculum that where Xenophon and Calculus weaken the constitution of one, late hours and fast living break down a dozen. Dissipation has more to do with the shattered constitution than JEschylus and Euclid. It is a sure destroyer, and those who follow it are certain to perish, sooner or later, from its effects.
The number of young men who are led away into the
paths of dissipation is great, and their ruin is simply a matter of time. The loss of a few hours of sleep now and then, high living, and dissipation, make war on every function of the body. The brain, the nerves, the bloody the lungs, the liver, the bones, and every part of the body, every faculty of the mind, are overtasked and weakened, until the constitution at length gives way, fiills into ruin and decay.
Under the disciplinary regulations of the college here, but little chance is given to young men to fall into habits of dissipation, yet we have seen some who have taken advantage of a trip home, or the like, make use of that short time in which to indulge their desires of fast life. The folly of this manner qf acting will become apparent to the young man when perhaps it will be too late for him to amend. Every one should obey the rules and regulations of the house; and in after-years, when he will see the habits of regularity and sobriety into which he has been trained, he will rejoice at the thought of how much good has been done for him.
The-Germ an. Course. ,
A notable change has been made in the German Course this year. The study of this language having been made free, a larger number of students have now taken it up; and, with this large increase, an improvement in the course was demanded and has been made. In order that those students of German descent may have the opportunity of speaking the language while in class, two separate courses have been established. The one course is for those who. already able to speak the language, desire a knowledge of its grammar. This course has been put into the hands of able professors, and in the class-room no other language except German will be spoken. The second course is for English-speaking, students who desire to obtain a knowledge of the German language. In this course English will be spoken, and the exercises will consist in translations from English into German and German into English Students when they have mastered this course will be promoted to the purely German course, where they will. have opportunities of conversing in the language of which they are striving for a mastery. The good results which will naturally flow from this method of teaching the language cannot but be apparent, and it is to be hoped that it will be an inducement to all to begin the study of a language which will be not only an accomplishment to them but also of great practical use, for it is now almost indispensable for people doing business in the West to have a knowledge of the German language. Every day. business men are thrown' in contact with our Germanspeaking fellow-citizens, and a knowledge of their language cannot but be of service, for people will naturally deal with those who are able to converse with them in their own tongue.
With the present improvements in the German Course, we feel certain all must be pleased. It will enable the German student to have daily practice in conversing in his own tongue; while the English-speaking student, after he has mastered the grammar of the language, will be enabled to profit by a familiarity with the spoken language which be seeks to acquire. We are pleased that the improvement has been made, and feel confident that our readers will share in this pleasure.
26
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Personal.
—	Hon. S. S. Hayes, of Chicago, HL, spent the 13th with us.	’
—	Henry Lindsay (Commercial), of ’61, is farming near Kokomo, Ind.
—	Very Rev. Fr. Granger returned from his western trip greatly improved in health.
—	Rev. J. A. Zahm will continue in charge of the Scien-\ tific Department at the college this year.
<	—We were pleased to receive a visit from our old friend,
Rev. John Ford, of St. Joseph’s mission.
—	August Thaller (Commercial), of ’70, paid us a visit on the 11th. He is railroading in Chicago.
—	D. J. Clarke, B. S., of ’71, gives the readers of the Catholic Columbian a very readable local miscellany.
—	We are happy to state that the Rev. Thos. Walsh has returned from the Waukesha Springs greatly improved in health.
Dame, besides Rev. Fr. Brown, there were D. J. Clarke, B. S., of’70, W. J. Clarke, A. B., of ’74, and David Brown, of ’73. The bride is a sister of Thos. Ewing, A. B., of ’69, and a granddaughter of the late Hon. Thos. Ewing. She graduated at St. Mary’s Academy in 1870.
—L. O. Hibben, captain of the Marshall Baseball Club, which has won so many victories during the past season* was made the surprised recipient of a graceful presentation yesterday afternoon. For some time his friends and admirers in baseball circles have been looking about for some way in which to show their esteem of his many good qualities of head and heart and also his skill on the diamond field. The feeling took shape on this occasion in the presentation of an elegant gold watch, valued at $120. It is a Swiss movement, full jewelled, with heavy cases of 18 karat gold; stem winder and setter. In the inside of the back case is engraved the following inscription: “L. O. Hibben, Captain of the Marshall Baseb ill Club, from his many friends. Marshalltown, Iowa, Aug., 10th, 1876. A handsome compliment and very worthily bestowed.”—Marshall Daily Times.
*
—We are pleased to see that Rev. Thos. Vagnier has resumed his place as a member of the Faculty of the College this year.
—Profs. Ivers and Tong possess fine rigs, and it is a delight to one’s eyes to see them driving out to the College every morning.
—Jas. D. Christie (Commercial) of ’73, D. J. Hogan, A. B., of ’74, and Thos. Farrell, of New York, spent a few days with us this past week.
—Hugo Hug (Commercial), of ’72, is with Judge Roach, Indianapolis, Ind. His brother George (Commercial), of’71, is in the real-estate business in the same city.
—Arthur C. O’Brien (Commercial), of ’76, is editing The Young Folks' Friend, at Loogootee, Ind. The Friend is a lively little paper and we wish the Editor every success imaginable.
—Rev. A. Louage, Master of Novices, arrived at Notre Dame, from France, where he made a short visit, on the 5th. He was warmly received by the young men over whom he has charge.
—We are sorry to have to announce that on account of ill-health Rev. Father J. A. O’Connell has been found it necessary to resign the office of Director of Studies at Notre Dame. We feel certain that our readers will share in our regret, for never has there been here a Director of Studies who has filled the office with more ability and given satisfaction to others than he has. Rev. Father J. A. Zahm succeeds him in the office.
—We understand that Rev. J. C. Carrier, C. S. C., formerly professor of the natural and physical sciences in the University of Notre Dame, Ind., has been appointed Professor in St. Joseph’s College, Cincinnati. Father Carrier is a member of the American Science Association, being a deep student of Nature’s laws. To every scientific student of Notre Dame the name of Father Carrier is synonymous with intellectual labor. We congratulate the scientific circles of Cincinnati.—Catholic Columbian.
—Among the many visitors to Notre Dame during the past week were Mr. D. Riopelle, G. E. Price, A. F. Vander-hoef, L. Devinny, M. M. Plott, P. M. Guthrie G. D. Eliel, H. I. Miller, J. Cox and lady, Mr. and Mrs. Wile, G. Adler, W. Maurer, B. Kramer, D. W. Stern, M. Lail, F. Mayer, H. J. Leuzen, C. Ottsch, J. Becher, H. Coyle, E. Holley, T. McCarthy, C. F. Simon, A. E. Bolen, L. P. Elder, Mr. and Mrs. Terpany, Mr. and Mrs. Irish, Rev. G. F. Carstensen, W. W. Giddings, Wm. Ryan, E. N. Taylor, J. D. McIntyre, of’76, and Jesse Johnson.
—As announced in the last number of the Scholastic, the marriage of E. M. Brown, A. B., of ’65, to Miss Eleanor M. Ewing, took place at St. Mary’s Church, Lancaster, Ohio, on the 26th of July last. The ceremony was performed by Rt. Rev. Bishop Rosecrans of Columbus, Ohio, assisted by Rev. Fathers J. B. Smith, J. Pabisch, D. D., Volkert, M. B. Brown, J. Goldsmith, D. Theilheimer, and other priests. At the reception which took place at the residence of the bride’s father, a great many friends and relatives were present. Among the ex-students of Notre
Iiocal Items.
—The societies are already organizing.
—The Minims’ validore is never idle during recreation time.
.—Excursions for watermelons are taken about once a week.
—The scaffolding in the new church has been taken away.
—The Scholastic Almanac for 1877 will be issued in December.
—A few additions to the gymnastic apparatus would not be unacceptable.
—Do not be any way backward in sending in contributions to the Scholastic.
—Are we to have many musical soirees the coming year? It is to be hoped we will.
—Large cisterns are now being built where the old steam-house formerly stood.
—The cold, wet. weather the first few days of the session, made things somewhat disagreeable.
—We understand that a number of airs are being arranged on the cylinder for the chimes.
—Some of the Minims are looking for the arrival of velocipedes to be used in the coming races.
—The St Cecilians of last year say that as a director of societies Prof. J. A. Lyons cannot be beat.
—The football games in the Junior Department have been very exciting. The new football is well used.
—The Congregation of the Holy Cross has fine establishments in New Jersey, Wisconsin, Ohio, Illinois and Texas.
—When David dreaded Saul and saw that he had in him a powerful rival, he sent him into foreign countries to fight the Philistines.
—The St. Cecilia Philomathean Association reorganized on the 11th. A full report of the meeting will appear next week.
—The Minims are anxious to have their play-room enlarged so they can use their velocipedes during the winter season.
—The Juniors are under obligations to B. Polycarp for the favors he has shown them since the commencement of the year.
—Next week we will publish a report of the meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society which took place on the 14th.
—The new altar will be placed in the church sometime in November. It is now on exhibition at the Centennial Exposition.
—In the Junior Refectory the readers are engaged on “ Excelsior ”; in the Senior they are occupied with Rollin’s Ancient History.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
27
—The Minims’ Campus has been widened, consequently they will not be so likely to trespass on the crops growing around their grounds.
—Among others who have given donations to the Lemon-nier Circulating Library, Mrs. Hug, of Indianopolis, Ind., has subscribed twenty-five dollars.
—In making out the roll of honor this week great liberality was shown by Professors and Prefects. From this out during the year they will be stricter.
—We are asked if Fouche was an ex-tailor. We are determined to let up on this man; we have some respect for him more than for the man who employed him:
—The Scientific Course will be made more interesting this present year by the lecture course, which will number many and able lecturers on its programme.
—The Orchestra will soon begin their regular weekly practice. We expect that every member of the organization will do his whole duty this coming year.
—The bad weather at the beginning of the session interfered a great-deal with baseball, but we will hear of some well-contested games on the Campus in a short while.
—The library at the Presbytery has been divided. That of the Ave Maria will be for the exclusive use of the Editor. The house library has been removed to another apartment.
—We have heard the new Director of Studies remark that the books of his predecessor were found in such perfect order as to make the difficulties of his new position a matter of no moment.
—It is most commendable to see with what care and discernment the societies care making their selections for the coming year—one worthless member may spoil an otherwise brilliant record.
—Large numbers of visitors are to be seen here every day, and as the accommodating janitor, B. Francis Assisi,shows them every attention, we have no doubt of their being well pleased with their visits.	■
—The box in the eastern corner of the hall in the College, just alongside the door leading to the Commercial study-hall, is for contributions to the Scholastic. We hope that it will be well patronized.
—Classes are now in fine running order, and we will be surprised if, taking into consideration the fine class of students and the energy they already display, the examinations do not show well both for teachers and pupils.
—An addition is to be built to the music-hall- This will consist of a large hall to be used by the members of the Band, Orchestra, Glee-Club and Choir. This has been - needed, and we are glad to learn that work on it will soon be commenced.
—In addition to the competitions in all the classes, there will be weekly notes given to be read to the students. The roll of honor, the class-honors and list of excellence will continue to be published every week in the Scholastic. The weekly notes for conduct will be read every week as usual.
—We trust that the Philopatrians, Philomatheans Philodemics, Thespians, Columbians, and all, will do their level best to make the winter pleasant and agreeable to everybody. After the study-hall and class-room, the society room should be the arena in which every one should endeavor to shine.
—We hope that the secretaries of the different societies will send in their weekly reports with promptitude. Let them make them concise yet full, slating just what took place at the meetings and' adding no words of praise or blame. Our readers will judge of what is worthy of commendation or disparagement.
—Vol. 48 of the Dublin Review, bound in half morocco, and Vol.2 of “ Notes on Doctrinal and Spiritual Subjects,” by Father Faber, are missed from the library of the Ave Maria. The Editor is very desirous to recover these books as they are both out of print. Of the latter there are two of the first volumes; in some other library there must be two of the second.
'—The first baseball game of the scholastic year was played on the 10th inst. between a Junior nine and the Minims, on the grounds of the latter. The toss of the
nickel resulted in sending the Minims to the bat. At the end of the ninth inning the score stood 12 to 9 in favor of the Juniors. The Minims kept the lead until the seventh inning, when some wild throwing and other errors in the field on their part allowed their opponents to score the runs which won the game. The umpiring of Mr. M. Kauffman was very satisfactory.
—We learn that the analytical mechanics now incorporated into the Scientific Course has been confided to the care of Prof. Howard, who resigns his Literature to Rev. T. E. Walsh. Prof. Howard has now figured in our halls for some twenty years, during which time he has taught with success the greater number of the higher branches both of the Scientific and Classical Courses. We are happy to see his courage and vigor undiminished, and whilst we wish him success we congratulate the students who will be entrusted to his careful and skilful training.
—On Tuesday, Sept. 12th, was held the first annual meeting of the St. Aloysius Philodemic Society, for the purpose of electing officers for the ensuing sesssion. The election resulted as follows: Director, Rev. J. A. Zahm, C. S. C.; President, Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C-; VicePresident, W. T. Ball; Rec. Secretary, Carl Otto; Cor. Secretary, John G. Ewing; Treasurer, P. H. Skahill; Censor, P. J. Cooney. The names of Messrs. A. Hertzog, T. C. Logan, and Eugene Arnold were proposed for membership and the gentlemen were unanimously elected.
—Shelves in the Lemonnier Circulating Library have been named after the following persons who have donated volumes, viz.: Hon. P. B. Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio; W. J. Onahan, Chicago, Ill.; Frank E. Foxon, Detroit, Mich; Very Rev. E. Sorin, Notre Dame; J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame; O. M. Schnurrer, Notre Dame; Very Rev. A. Granger, Notre Dame; Mrs. G. Rhodius, Indianapolis, Ind.; G. Edwards, Toledo, Ohio; Mrs. C. Hug, Indianapolis, Ind.; Thos. Ewing, of ’69, Lancaster, Ohio; Rev. N. H. Gillespie, Notre Dame; and Rev. P. P. Cooney, Notre Dame.
—There is a certain species of dwelling in which there may perhaps be no great sin to reside, but from the nature of things when persons have made choice of such abodes it is a matter of proverbial prudence that they should deny themselves the recreation to be derived from the unnecessary projection of offensive missives. Should their mental aud physical constitution be of such a character as to morally preclude the possibility of their refraining absolutely from indulging in this peculiar pastime, it would be at least advisable fbr them to enjoy their diversion as privately as circumstances may permit.
—The following is the score of a game of baseball played on the 13th:
EXCELSIOR.
Sugg, c.........’.......
Larkin, p...............
Shehon, s. s............
Ohlman, lb..............
Kauffman, c. f..........
Phelan, 3 b.............
Burger, r.f.............
Hagerty, 1. f...........
Streit, 2 b.............
Total...............
o.
PICKED NINE.
O. E.
2
3
3
4
2
3
3
4
3
27
Roelle, c..............
Hagan, p...............
Ames, s. s.............
Quinn, lb..............
Fitzgerald. 2 b........
Turnbull, 3 b..........
Fowler, 1. f...........
Leonard, c. f..........
Hamilton, r. f.........
4 5
2 3
4 4
2 1
2
0 0
1
2
1
1
1 2
1
Total......................................................................,....27	9
Umpire—W. W. Wells.
Scorer—Ad. Widdicombe.
Time of Game—2 hours, 15 minutes.
—The question of smoking is one which moralists variously discuss. Some judge it to be a good habit, others to be a bad habit, and others a habit indifferent in character. Then again they consider -it in se and secundum quid and according to circumstances. For our part we do not aspire to pronounce any opinion on the merits of the subject from a moral point of view; but practically, so far as students are concerned, our views are fixed and settled. No matter how wisely it may be controlled or prudently permitted in the College, it leads to disorder. For some time past, for the older students and with the permission of their parents, and with other restrictions, the custom has been tolerated, but we admire the determination now en-
28
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
-tered into by the University to cut the matter short and thus preventany abuse by a peremptory and absolute prohibition of the use of tobacco in any shape or form.
—The first regular meeting of the Thespian Association ■was convened Sept. 11th, 1876. The ballot for officers resulted as follows: Director, Rev. P. J. Golovin, C. S. C.; Dramatic Instructpr, Rev F. C. Bigelow, 0. S. 0.: President, Prof. J. A. Lyons; Promoters, Prof. J. F. Edwards and Bro. Alban; Vice-President, Win. T. Ball; Rec. Secretary, N. J. Mooney; Cor. Secretary, Carl Otto; Treasurer, John G. Ewing. Several gentlemen were proposed for membership. The requisites for admission being complied with by the following gentlemen, viz.: Mr. Eugene F. Arnold, who declaimed “ The Battle of Waterloo,” T. C. Logan, “ On the Shores of Tennessee,” Ambrose Hertzog, “Liberty or Death,” W. P. Breen, “ Still the Sime,” and A. K. Schmidt, “The Maniac,” they were elected members of the Association. At a subsequent meeting the following additional officers were elected, viz.: 1st Censor, H. C. Cassidy ; 2d Censor, T. C. Logan; 3d Censor, E. F. Arnold; Librarian, W. P. Breen; and Promptor, A. Hertzog.
—The Lemonnier Library Association acknowledges, with many thanks, the receipt of the following donations: Mrs. C. Hug, of Indianapolis, presented “ Clarke’s Travels in Various Countries of Europe, Asia and Africa,” full calf gilt, 11 vols.; “Cooke’s Voyages Round the World,”6 vols., calf. Very Rev. A. Granger gave Arnold’s Lectures on Modern History; Bacon’s Novum Organum and Advancement of Learning; Fletcher on Controversy; Graziella, translated by J. B. Runnion; Appleton’s Instructions; How to Write Letters, by Westlake; Life of Bishop Brute, by Lady Herbert; Halleck’s Poems. W. J. Onahan, LL.D., of Chicago, donated “ History of London,” Hunter, 2 vols., 4to., London, 1811; Henry’s History of England, 7 vols., 4to., London, 1771; History of India, 4to., London, 1791; “ History of Great Britain,” Jas. P. Andrews, 2 vols., 4to., 1794; “ History of the United States,” Chas. Mackay, 8 vols.; Literature and Dogma, Arnold. Mrs. Buegrig, of Indianapolis, presented “Photographic Views; or Religious and Moral Truths,” Rev. F. X. Weninger, S. J.; “ Treatise on Punctuation,” Wilson; “The Book of Nature,” Schoedler and Medlock; “ History of Vincennes,” Judge Law; Homer’s Illiad; Troubat’s and Hally’s Practice; Wright’s Lectures on India; Hitchcock’s Geology; Degerando on Self-Education ; “ Points of Controversy,” Smarius; German Books, 3 vols. Master G. Rhodius, of Indianapolis, gave Burke on the Sublime and Beautiful; “ Familiar Science,” Peter-. son; Jamieson’s Rhetoric; Kit Carson’s Life and Adventures; Belden, the White Chief; Comfort’s German Course. A Friend presented “ Memoria Technica, or the Art of Abreviating”; “A Journey to the Moon,” Jules Verne; “The Old Masters and their Pictures,” Sarah Tytler. The Librarian purchased the following works: Penny Cyclopaedia, 27 vols.; The English Universal History, 65 vols.; Travels of Anacharsis, 6 vols., and Atlas, bound in full calf; Crevier’s Roman Emperors, 10 vols.; British Biography, 10 vols.; Lamartine’s Girondists, 3 vols.; The Complete Works of Xenophon; Ferguson’s Rome; Baker’s Livy, 2 vols.; Murphy’s Tacitus; Napoleon’s Julius Caesar, 2 vols.; Memoirs, Journal and Correspondence of Tiios. Moore, 8 vols.; “How to Work with the Microscope,”Beale; Life of St. Liguori; Life of St. Theresa; Life of Bishop Timon, of Buffalo; Life of Las Casas; “ Words, their Use and Abuse,” Matthews.
E,oH of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
T. Aylward, J. Burke, J. Coleman, P. Cooney, R. Calkins, W. Dodge, L. Evers, J. Ewing, J. Fitzerald, W. Fowler, G. Fish-burn, J. Gray, T. Garso, A. Hertzog, P. Hagen, F. Hastings, J. Krost, J. Kinney, T- Kerby, T. C. Logan, H. Leonard, J. Larkin, L. Murphy, H. Maguire, W. Murry, N. Mooney, J. Montgomery, W. Proudhomme, T. Quinn, P. Quinn, E. Rich, G. Saylor, F. Sehlink, M. Smith, P. Skahill, P. Tamble, F. Vandervannet, J. Vanderhood, W. Wells, P. Mattimore, P. J. Mattimore.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Abby Abraham, A. Bergek, W. Brady, A. Burger, J. Burger, G. Crawford, F. Carroll, C. Clarke, G. Cassidy, W. Connelly, G. Donnelly, F. Ewing, R. French, P. Frane, J. Fox, L. Frazee, R. Golsen, A. Gerlach, B. Heeb, J. Hagerty, C. Hagan, R. Healey.
J. Johnson. R. Johnson, C. Johnson, R. .Keenan, A. Keenan, J. Krost, T. Knorr, M. Kauffman, O. Lindberg, J. A. Larkin, C. V. Larkin, F. Lang, F. Lancaster, F. McGrath, J. Mosal, E. Moran, W. Nicholas, W. Ohlman, C. Orsinger, E. Pennington, F. Pleins, E. Poor, J. Reynolds, J. Rothert, F. Rheinboldt, K. Scanlan, P. Schnurrer, W. Shehon, H. B. Scott, G. Sampson, G. J. Sugg, W. Taulby, J. White, W. Widdicombe, C. F. Walsh, J. Duffield.
minim department.
Joseph Lumley, Rudolph J. Pleins, George Rhodius, John A. Seeger, Willie McDevitt, Edward Carqueville, John Scanlan, George Hadden, Presly Heron, Charles Reif, George Lambin, Willie Coolbaugh, Peter P. Nelson, Charles Kauffman, Aloysius Reinboldt, Harry Kitz, Joseph Inderrieden, Charlie Long, John Inderrieden. Frank Carqueville, Arthur Sehnert, Henry Riopelle, Frank Gaffney.
Class Honors.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, SEPT. 15, 1876.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. Seeger, G. Rhodius, R. Pleins, J. Lumley, G. Lambin, W. Coolbaugh, P. Heron, W. McDevitt, P. P. Nelson, J. Scanlan, G. Hadden, C. Kauffman, A. Reinboldt, C. Reif, E. Carqueville, Frank Gaffney.
—No cases of protracted homesickness.
—The painting and frescoing of the refectory and Junior recreation-room make a great improvement in those departments.
—The return of the old pupils is always the occasion of great satisfaction, for every class is eager to move onward and upward in a solid body.
—The classes commenced on the 4th inst. with a pretty fair attendance—since then the daily arrival of old pupils and new has filled up the ranks, and now St. Mary’s presents its usual quota of earnest students.
—One of the most puzzling questions is—who is the donor of that very elegant carriage and harness presented last week to “ Mother Superior, by a Friend” ? The pupils are more than eager to express their thanks for the beautiful gift, for they hope as soon as some other unknown friend presents a pair of elegant horses to match, that Mother Superior will give said pupils each a turn at a pleasant carriage-ride in that beautiful new carriage. The generous donor of said carriage will no doubt be happy to know that the Sisters are invoking blessings on the kind individual who has so delicately contributed so liberal a gift.
—The following list, comprising the name .of God in forty-eight languages, was compiled by the-well-known French philologist, Louis Burger, in the following manner: One day, as he was walking along the streets of Paris, he heard a voice beseeching him to buy some nuts. Upon looking back he discovered that it was the voice of his old barber, who was gaining a scanty living by selling nuts on the street. To aid him, he hastily made out and gave him the following list: “Hebrew—Elohium; Chal-daic—Eilah; Assyrian—Eleah; Syriac and Turkish—Alah; Malay—Allah; Arabic—Allah; Language of the Magi —Oris; Old Egyptian—Teut; Armorian—Teuti; Modern -Egyptian—Teun; Greek—Theos; Cretan—Thios; ^Eolian and Doric—Hos; Litin—Deus; Low Latin—Diex; Celtic and Gallic—Diu; French—Dieu; Spanish—Dios; Portuguese—Deos; Old German—Diet; Provencal—Diou; Low Breton—Done; Italian—Dio; Irish—Dia; German and Swiss—Got; Flemish—Goed; Dutch—Godt; English and old Saxon—God; Teutonic—Goth; Danish and Swedish— Gut; Norwegian—Gud; Slave—Buch; Polish—Bog; Pol-lacca—Bung; Lapp—Jubinal; Finnish—Jumula; Runic —As; Zemblian—Fetizo; Pannonian—Istu; Hindostanee —Rain; Coromandel—Brama; Tartar—Magatal; Persian —Sire; Chinese—Prussa; Japanese—Goezur; Madagascar—Zannar; Peruvian—Puchecammae; Olalu Tongue— Deu.” By the sale of these lists the barber was enabled to make as good a living, if not better, than M. Burger himself.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
29
LUCIUS G. TONG, ATTORNEY 8c COUNSELOR AT LAW. REAL ESTATE AND INSURANCE AGENT.
Collections Promptly Made. General Business Solicited.
Examination of Titles to Real Estate made at Reasonable charges.
' Office, Boom No. 2, Arnold’s Block, P. O. Box, 1411.	SOUTH BEND, IND
JANSEN, McCLURG & co.,
Importers and Dealers in Fine
Books and Stationery,
117 AND 119 STATE STREET,
CIETTCL^G-O, ILLIJSTOTS.
Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne 8s Chicago,
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED' TIME TABLE.
NOVEMBER, 1875.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side) On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
0 Trains with Through Cars t	No. 2. Day Ex. Ex. Sund'y	No. 6. Pac. Exp Daily.	No. 4. .Night Ex Ex Sa&Su
° NEW YOKK.			
Lv. CHICAGO		9 00 a.m.	5 15 p.m.	10 00 p.m.
Ar. FT. WAYNE			2 10 p.m.	11 25 “	6 15 a.m.
“ Rochester		1 04 a.m.	11 12 a.m.	5 54 p.m.
“ Pittsburgh		2 10 “	12 15 “	7 05 •'
Lv. Pittsburgh	 Ar. Cresson...................	2 55 “	1 10 p.m.	8 10 “
“ Harrisburg		11 30 a.m.	ii 05 “	3 45 a.m.
“ Baltimore		6 25 p.m.		7 35 “
“ Washington		9 07 “		9 02 “
“ Philadelphia		3 30 “	3 10 a.m.	7 35 “
“ New York		6 45 “	6 50 “	10 25 “
“ New Haven	 “ Hartford	 “ Springfield		11 52 “ 1 27 a.m. 2 20 “	10 40 “ 12 11 p.m. 12 57 p.m.	3 26 p.m.
“ Providence		5 10 “	3 48 “	7 40 “
“ Boston		6 15 “	4 50 “	9 05 »
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. MYERS, G. P. & T. A.
THOMAS B. CLIFFORD
(Of the Class of ’62)	„
ATTORNEY AT LAW, NOTARY PUBLIC, AND
COMMISSIONER EOR ALL THE STATES, 206 BROADWAY (Cor. Fulton), NEW YORK. Special ^Attention Given to Depositions.
The Naturalists’ Agency
Has been established at 3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects of Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging duplicates or collections, not to be equalled for the next hundred years.
I have now (July 1st) in stock over §30,000 worth of Minerals and have sold over §5,000 worth since the 17th day of January when I put the first box into my establishment. Every specimen has been sold separately, as I have had no time, till now, to put up collections that have been ordered.
_ I have the best specimens ever seen of Amazon Stone, Brookite, Nigrin, Green Wavellite colored by Vanadium, Peganite, Smoky Quartz, Rock Crystal, Perofskite, Schorlomite, Aegerite, Feldspar, (pink, red, gray brown and green,) Embolite, Melan-ite, Ozarkite Chlorastrolite, and very fine specimens of Rubellite, Lepidolite, Samarskite, Datholite, Wollastonite, Roepperite, Chalcophanite, Willemite, Greenockite, Galenite, Blende, Copper, Elaeolite (like sunstone,) Zircon, Warwickite, Allanite, Fowlerite, Jacksonite, Amphibole, Beryl, Tephroite, Amethyst, Agate, Chalcedony Pseudomorphs, Cassiterite, Gothite, Anatase, Brucite, Hematite, Limonite, Cryolite, Pachnolite, Hagemannite, Wire Gold, Petzite, Sylvanite, Nagyagite, Silver, Platinum, Iridosmin, Hexagonal Prisms of Graphite, Sulphur, BismuthCinnabar, Millerite, Pyrite, Chalcopyrite, Linnaeite, Cerargy, rite, Atacamite, Fluorite, Zincite, Melaconite, Cuprite, Salt, Corundum, Spinel, Magnetite, Rutile, Arkansite, Opal, Epidote, Allanite, Axinite, Muscovite, Leucite, Albite, Chondrodite, Tourmaline, (red, brown, black, green, blue and white,) Andalusite, Fibrolite, Kyanite, Topaz, Sphene, Staurolite, Pectolite, Laumonite, Dioptase, Chrysocolla, Calamine, Prehnite, Cerite, Pyrosmalite, Apophyllite, Thomsonite, Natrolite Mesolite, Analcite, Chabazite, Herschelite, Phillipsite, Harmotome, Stilbite, Heulandite, Talc, Pyrophyllite, Serpentine, Deweylite. Margarodite, Damourite, Cookite, Genthite, Jefferisite, Penninite, Ripidolite, Prochlorite, Margarite, Clintonite, Columbii-:, Euxenite, Apatite, Pyromorphite, Amblygonite, Vivianite, Erythrite, Olivenite, Lazulite, Wavellite, Childrenite, Turquois, Dufrenite, Torbernite. Autonite, Soda Nitre, Seybertite, Boracite, Borax, Ulexite, Cryptomorphite, Warwickite, Wolframite, Scheelite, Cuproschcelite, Stolzite, Wulfenite, Vanadinite, Barite, Celestite, Anhydrite, Anglesite, Crocoite, Gypsum, Polyhalite, Picromerite, Epsomite, Chalcanthite, Halotrichite, Rhombspar, Nailheadspar, Dogtoothspar, Oolite, Madreporic Marble, Shell Marble and all other varieties of Calcite, Dolomite, Magnesite, Siderite, Rhodochrosite, Smithsonite, Aragonite, Witherite, Strontianite, Cerussite, Hydromagnesite, Hydrodolomite, Zaratite, Hydrozincite, Aurichalcite, Malachite, Azurite, Petroleum, Ozocerite, Amber, Asphaltum, Coal, Aquacreptite, Durangite, Hallite, Hortonolite, Jacobsite, Metacinnabarite, Pucherite, Ralstonite, Sussexite, Calaverite, Ardennite, Byerite, Ludwigite, Pricite, Syngenite, Wapplerite, Zeunerite, Zonochlorite, and. hundreds of other species.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
FOE STUDENTS, AMATEURS, PROFESSORS, PHYSICIANS, AND OTHER professional men. These collections illustrate all the principal species and all grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; all the principal Ores and minerals containing every known Element. The collections are labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels give Dana’s species, number the name, locality, and in most cases the composition of the Mineral.
All collections accompanied by an Illustrated Catalogue and table of species, by means of which many Minerals may be identified without apparatus. Catalogue and table sent free to all customers, to others on recept of 10 cents to pay postage and trouble of sending. The price-list of species and varieties form an excellent check-list.
100 Crystals and Fragments for Study,..........§	1.00
100 Specimens, Students’ Size, Larger,........ 5.00
100 Specimens, Larger, Amateurs’ Size, 2X+1X inches, 10.00 Co.lections of Gems, Ores, Earthy Minerals, Minerals used in any Arts or Agriculture, on hand or put up to Order.
Fancy Boxes representing the Minerals of Colorado, the Rocky Mountains, Arkansas, Lake Superior, and other Localities on hand or put up to Order. Each box accompanied by a printed list referring to numbers on the Specimens.
We have in stock a large number of showy Specimens for Museums of Amazon Stone, Cairngorum Stone, Loadstone lifting horse-shoes, &c., &c.
We sell Minerals by weight, for the Chemist and blowpipe use, at very low prices, as Samarskite 25c. per lb., Allanite 25c. per lb., Brookite Pure Crystal 25c. per lb., Rutile pure, 25c. per lb., Wavelite, 25c. per lb., Blende, 10c. per pound.
Several §1.000 Worth of Rocky Mountain Birds, Fossils, Shells, Botanical Specimens, Mound Builders, &c., Relics, &c^ on hand.	A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Prof. Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow Am. Ass'n Adv. of Science.
3725 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, Pa.
30	,	THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
TOL O. SPEER.
N. S. MITCHELL, (Class of ’72 )
SPEER & MITCHELL,
ATTORNEYS AT LAW,
225 Brady St., . . . Davenport, Iowa
THE “AVE MARIA,”
CATHOLIC JO"CTTi2SrA^X.
quoted to the fmor oftte rated
ir^in.
Published. Every Saturday at Notre Name, Ind.
APPROVED BI MS HOLINESS PIUS IX., AND'MANI EMINENT PRELATES
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may be mentioned.
Aubrey de Vere,	Grace Ramsay,
Henri Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton,	Eliza Allen Starr,
The Misses Howe, The Authoress of “ Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
One Year............................................§	2 50
Eive Years.........................................10	00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of §2 each)....20	00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably-in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All subscriptions, communications, books or periodicals for notice, etc., should be addressed to the
BEV. EDITOB OF THE AVE MARIA, _	Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company, 115 & 121 Nassau St., New York.
St,	Ji ca du my.
(One Mile West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED B¥ THE SISTERS OF HOLT CROSS.
This Institution, situated on the beautiful and picturesque banks of the St. Joseph River, is everything that could be desired as a locality for a female academy. All the branches of a solid, and complete education are taught here. Masic, both vocal and instrumental, and the modern languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction.
Particular attention is paid to the religious instruction of Catholicpupils. Pupils of all denominations are received, and for the sake of order required to attend the public religious exercises with the members of the Institution.
The buildirgs are spacious and commodious, suited to the educational requirem nisof the day, and furnished with all modern improvements Every por ion of the building is heated by steam, nd hot and cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartments.
The grounds are very -ixtensive. beautifully adorned, and situated in that charming seclusion which is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power.
The proximity of the two institutions to each other is a great convenience to parents having children at both, when they visit their sons and daughters.
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the Twentieth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy for the year 1874-75, oraddress
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Ind
CALIFORNIA
Have you any thought of going to California? Are you going West, North, or Northwest? Yon want to know the best routes to take? The shortest, safest, quickest, and most comfortable routes are those owned by the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company. It owns over two thousand miles of the best road there is in the country. Ask any ticket agent to show you its maps and time cards. All ticket agents can sell you through tickets by this route.
Buy your tickets via the Chicago and Northwestern Railway for
SA.NT ZFZRJLNTOTSCO,
Sacramento. Ogden, Salt Lake City, Cheyenne, Denver, Omaha, Lincoln, Council Bluffs, Yankton, Sioux City, Dubuque, Winona, St. Paul, Duluth, Marquette. Green Bay. Oshkosh, Madison, Milwaukee, and all points West or Northwest of Chicago.
If you wish the best travelling accommodations, you will buy your rickets by this route, and will takeno other.
This popular route is unsurpassed for speed, comfort and safety. The smPoth, weil-b’ lasted and perfect track of steel rails. Westinghouse a,r brakes, Miller’s safety platform and couplers, the celebrated oiullman Palace Sleeping Oars, the perfect telegraph system of movins trains, the regularity with which they run, the admirable arrangement for running through cars from Chicago to all points West, North, and Northwest, secure to passengers all the comforts in modern railway i raveling.
PULLMAN PALACE CARS
are run on all trains of this road.
This is the only line running these cars between Chicago and St Paul, or Chicago and Milwaukee.	•
At Omaha our sleepers connect with the Overland Sleepers on the Union Pacific Railroad for all points west of the Missouri River.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
Marvin Hngbitt,	W. H. Stennett,
General Superintendent.	Gen’l Passenger Age
a
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, ITTZDIJLiTJL-
Founded. 1842.	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. Situated near the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, and the Peninsular Railroads, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
’ TERMS.
i
Matriculation Fee................................. §5 00
Board, Tuition (Languages, Linear Drawing and Vocal
Music included), Bed and Bedding, Washing and a
Mending of Linens, per Session of five months.... 150 00
Instrumental Music................................
Use of Piano......................................
Use of Violin.....................................
Telegraphy........................................
Vocal Lessons 4 General Class Principles..........
Vocal Lessons, j vocal’Culture....................
Elocution—Special Course..........................
Use of Library (per session)......................
Drawing—Landscape and Artistic....................
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus.......
(Classical Course..................
Graduation Fee,-< Scientific Course............... (Commercial Course................................
Students who spend Summer vacation at the Univer-sityare charged extra.............................
Doctors’ Fees and Medicines at Physician’s charges.
Students received at any time, their Session beginning with date of entrance.	.
PAYMENTS TO BE MADE INVARIABLY IN ADVANCE.
Class-Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The first session begins on the first Tuesday of September the second on the first of February.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, addrese
Rev. P. J. Golovin, G. S. C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
10 00 2 50
io oo io oo 15 00
5 00 1 00
15 00 5 00
10 00 10 00
5 00
40 00
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
31
JAMES BONNEY
THE IFZEYOTOG-IRYLZPIHZZEZR,
Corner Michigan and. Washington Sts.,
SOUTH ZBZEJSTTD, ITTJDTJkTsTJL.
Mr. Bonney will be at his art gallery near the Scholastic office every Wednesday morning at eight o’clock. He has on hand photographs of the Professors of the University, members of the College Societies, together with a large collection of the Students who figured prominently here in former years. Orders by mail promptly attended to.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST, LOUIS AND CHICAGO, KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Dep , West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
. Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City nd Denver Express via Jack-
OTTO VON TESMAR,
TAXIDERMIST,
124 Orcbard street, North Side, Chicago, Ill.,
Does all kinds of work pertaining to the Taxidermic Art at reason able prices. Also prepares Skeletons, refits Cabinets of Natural His tory, renews Specimens, etc., etc. For further particulars address s above.	mb 11-tJy
sonville, D ., and Louisiana, Mo........2	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Lou!s Ex. via Main Line.7 50 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line...............................7	40	am	9	00	pm
Pekin and Peoria Fast Express.............4	00	pm	10	00	am
Peoria Day Express........................7	50	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex..........7 40 am 9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express.....? 50 pm * 9 00 am Streator, Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 2 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation.......................9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt. J. Chaklton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
Chicago, R. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are-run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, comer Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha. Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m. 3 45 p.m.
Peru accommodation............... 5 00 p.m.	9 35 a.m.
Night Express....................10 00 p.m. 6 50 a.m.
A. M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE, •
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
Michigan Central Railway
ZPJATHHCTC SHICKEY,
PROPRIETOR OP THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE!
Whilst I return my thanks to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I beg leave to inform the public that I have, at the urgent requestor many of my patrons, purcnased SEVERAL NEW CARRIAGES and BUGGIES, and moved into the LIVERY STABLES
AttacliecI to tile IVationiil Hotel. andA <1-jacent to tlie Ivalee Shore and JVCicliigan Southern Depot.
Now, that telegraphic communication has been made bet veen No.re Dame and my office, through the Michigan Southern Denot, I sha ll be prompt to have passengers in time to meet all trains.
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Maij’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P. S HICKEY.
Time Table-November 21, 1875.
	♦Mail.	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	tNigh Express
Lv. Chicago		 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles .. .. “ Jackson. .. Ar. Detroit .. ..	5 00 a.m 7 32 “ 9 02 “ 2 08 p.m 5 45 “	9 00 a.m 11 00 “ 12 09 p.m 3 55 “ t. 25 “	4 00 p.m 6 30 “ 8 20 ‘* Express. 10 15 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 8 55 “ 12 40 a m 3 30 “	9 00 pm 11 15 “ 12 35 “ 4 52 •* 8 00 am
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 OO a.m 10 40 “ 3 45 p,m 5 10 “ 7 30	10 05 a m 12 32 p.m 4 23 “ 5 35 “ 8 00 “	4 CO p-m 7 15 “ 6 10 a.m 7 50 “ 10 20 -	5 40 p.m 9 25 “ 2 30 a.m 4 05 “ 6 30	9 50 p m 12 42 a.m 4 30 “ 5 50 “ 8 00 “
Niles and Sou tlx Bend Division,
GOING NORTH.
Lv. South Bend—8 15 a.m. “ Notre Dame—8 22 “
Ar. Niles—
9 00 “
7 15 p m.
7 23 “
8 00 “
39 06 a.m.
9 07 “
9 40 “
§7 00 p.m 7 07 “ 7 40 “
Lv. Niles—
6 30
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, April 16,1876, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
,	GOING EAST.
2 40 a. m., Night Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 40 p m; Buffalo 9 05.
IO 36 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 35p m; Cleveland 10 10.
ia a? p m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 50; Cleveland 10 10; Buffalo 4 00 a m.
9 11 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2 40; Cleveland, 7 CO; Buffalo, 1 05 p n .
11 25 p m, Fast Mail, Maio Line. Arrives at Toledo, 3 50 a m; Cleveland 7 10 a m., Buffalo 12 45 p m.
7 OO p m, Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 41 am, Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 p m, Chicago 6 am.
5 06 am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 6; Chicago 820 am.
4 54 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50; Chicago, 8 20
8 O1 am, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 01 a m; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
3 38 a m., Fast Mail. Arrives at Laporte 4 28 a. m.; Chicago, 6 55 a. m.
8 55 am,Local Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
“ Notre Dame—7 07 Ar. South Bend—7 15 ’Sunday excepted.
a.m.
GOING SOUTH.
4 20 p.m.
4 56 “
5 05 “
§8 00
8 32
8 40
a an.
§5 00 p.m
5 32 “
5 40 “
G. L. Elliott.
Agent, South Bend,
tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted. §Sunday only.
. Wm. B. Strong, Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago
Henby C. Wentworth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago.
,	B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dame-
CANDYI CANDY! CANDYI
The Low Prices Still Continue at
P. L. Garrity’s Candy Factory,
200 S. Clark St., CHICAGO, ILL. Cross-Town Cars Pass the Door.
Broken Candy................................  15c
Fine Mixed Candy.................•............25c
Choice Mixed Candy............................35c
Caramels......................................35c
Molasses and Cream Candy......................25c
Proportionately ILonv Prices to Wiiole-sale Cash. Buyers.
32
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
M. Livingston & Co.,
. LA-IRZE THE
Leading* Merchant Tailors in South Send
They Have tlie Best Cutter intheCity. n d make'suits in the latest styles at the lowest prices. Their stock of Clothing, Clotlis, Cassimcres, Vestings, and Gents’ Furnishing Goods, is he largest and most complete, and comprises all the new styles. Satisfaction guaranteed on all goods.
BEMEMBEB THE PLACE.
91 MICHIGAN St., SOUTH BEND, IND.
McDonald,
THE FHOTOG-RAFHER, Is still at his OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage shed, coal-house, young trees, grapes, sh'-ubbery, e>c., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Bund
A. McKay, Prop., riles, MIOHIG-JMET. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House
THE OLD BELIABLE
DWIGHT HOUSE,
South. Bend, Ind.
Messrs. Knight and Mills have become managers of the above reliable and popular house, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first-class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladie- and Gentlemen visiting.Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts ot home during their stay.
JERRY KNIGHT, I
- CAPTAIN MTT.T.S f Proprietors.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER nr
Watches, Clocks,
•A-ztra
EE WEE’E»Y“.
1*776 MUSIC BOOHS. 1876
Centennial Collection
OF
NATIONAL SONGS.
All the prominent National Songs, in an elegant collection, well harmonized, and with piano (or organ) accompaniment. Every American needs a copy of such a book as this, and the Songs are the best of all Songs for use in this_ Centennial year-
Contents:
Keller’s American Hymn. Hail Columbia.
Star-Spangled Banner.
Our Flag is there. ' Red, White and Blue.
Yankee Doodle.
To thee, O Country.
Columbia the Gem.
Watch on the Rhine.
Fatherland. [German.] Wearing of the Green. St. Patrick’s Day. Russian National Hymn.
God save the Queen.
Rule Brittania.
Roast Beef of Old England. • Men of Harlech. [Welch]. Partant pour Syrie.
Marseilles Hymn.
Garibaldi Hymn.
King Oscar. [Swedish.] Campbell’s are Cornin’.
Bruce’s Address.
King Christian. [Danish.] Spanish National Hymn. Austrian “	“
Pi ice in Cloth, 75 cents; Boards 50 cents; Paper, 40 cents. Mailed, post-free, for above price.
MUSIC
appropriate to the year will be found in “American Tune Book.” (§1.50) in “ Father Kemp’s Old Folks Concert Tunes.” Tourjee’s Centennial Collection (40 cts), and in Sheet Music, Martha Washington Quadrilles, Centennial March, &c., &c.
CENTENNIAL HYMN
as sung at the Opening Ceremonies in Philadelphia. Words by Whittier. Music By J. R. Paine. In 4 parts, for Mixed Voices. Price in Sheet Music form, 30 cts. In octavo form for Choruses, 10 cts. No celebration this year will be complete without the singing of this magnificent Hymn.
Centennial, Machinery, Horticultural, Memorial, and Agricultural Marches, each 50 cts; Washington’s Old (40 cts), and New (60 cts) Marches. Martha Washington’s Waltz [75 cts] and March. [50 cts]. Grand March, by Downing [60 cts]. Centen nial Waltzes by Fliege [75 cts], and Crobe’s Medly of National Airs [75 cts]; all have Splendid Illustrated Titles! and. the best of music.
Centennial Collection
OZF
NATIONAL SONGS.
An elegant and attractive volume, contains the National Songs of this and 12 other countries, in convenient form for Solo or Chorus singing. In Paper 40 cts. Boards 50 cts.
Camina Collegensia. (cioth. §3.00; Gnt, $4.00).
New, Enlarged Edition. All the famous College Songs, forming the wittiest, most entertaining, musical and classical collection of genial Songs and Glees for social singing ever brought together.	'
OLIVER DITSONT & CO.,
BOSTON.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
J. E. BITSON & CO., CHAS. H. BITSON & CO.
Successors to Lee & Walker,	711 Broadway, Uh H YORK.
I?hila.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
LYON HEALY, Chicago.