The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE pTUDENTS.
Volume VII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 21, 1874.	Number 30.
Geysirs in the Distance.
By A. Spouter.
No. II.
During our two days’ camping at the Hot Springs several of our party enjoyed the luxury of bathing. Those wonderful baths formed by nature are of all sizes, and the water of every degree of temperature; in the lower basins it is al-‘ most cold, but increases in heat the nearer it lies to its source, until close to the summit the hand cannot be dipped into it without being scalded.
I noticed that none of our party entered these upper basins, but contented themselves lower down. The baths are very pleasant, but the skin must be thoroughly dried, or an incrustation is formed, giving one rather a contracted feeling. The mineral held in solution is deposited very rapidly; pine cones, twigs, even dead bodies of animals if placed in the running water, in forty-eight hours will be incrusted an eghth of an inch in thickness. On the morning of the third day we broke camp, and had we not had anticipations of greater wonders, would have regretted leaving so soon the neighborhood of this great marvel. At this point the wagons were abandoned, and all the camp equipage and provisions had to be packed on mules. Once more on the trail, our twenty-seven animals—not including bipeds—presented rather an imposing appearance as in single file they fell into a walk, a gait that was seldom altered during the rest of the trip. Descending the precipitous mountain to Gardiner’s River, we safely crossed the two forks of that foaming torrent,—not without some little peril,—and commenced the ascent of the canon of the East Fork. The trail for a mile is very narrow and steep, scratched out of the side of an almost perpendicular mountain. It comes out on a small plateau just over a fall of ninety feet in the river, but the walls of the canon are sb abrupt and the growth of timber so dense that it is impossible to obtain a view of the cataract. The only point from which it is visible is some half mile down the trail,—and the picture of the leaping waters, set in a frame of dark green pines, is very beautiful. From this table land we obtained our last view of the Hot Springs. Set far up the mountain, immediately fronting the mouth of the canon, they again presented the appearance of an immense frozen cascade, and the rays of the morning sun were reflected from the foamy whiteness in almost dazzling brilliancy. We travelled twelve miles that day, through broad rolling valleys of great altitude—lunched at a clear mountain lake, and about two o’clock in the afternoon camped near a crystal stream in a grassy meadow. The place selected was really beautiful, and one of the young ladies of the party, in a moment of poetical inspiration, named it the “ Camp of the Whispering Pines.” Three old monarchs of the forest kept a near guard over us, and, to those who were
en rapport, in the mystic twilight might have whispered—. what?—I do not know.
‘Specimen hunters’were successful in the evening, and gathered in the neighborhood of the camp amethyst, crystals, cornelians, agates, and many curious petrifactions, ■ for their respective cabinets. In riding through the mountains, hunting, Icameacross thetrunk of a tree—about thirty feet long and twenty inches in diameter—a solid petrified mass. ’Twas a very fine specimen—but I let it lie. That afternon a black-tailed deer and antelope was added to our mess, and the broiled steak, liver and roasted ribs were not to be sneezed at. At any rate we didn’t do it. Towards night a large bear appeared at the edge of the camp, and in the excitement I lost the odd trick by playingthe wrong card; but Bruin walked off without doing any more damage? and I won the next game. The succeeding morning the sun rose in his usual good humor and smiled down his brightest beams the rest of the day; towards noon ’twas rather more of a laugh. We passed through some beautiful scenery—over grassy plateaus and through pine-clad gorges, and about one o’clock reached a table land ending in a wall of the Grand Canon hear the junction of Tower Creek. Stand with me a moment near the brink, and view for a thousand feet to the valley, the wonderful formations in the volcanic rock, wrought by the action of the elements. Towers, spires, columns, statues, ruined monuments, battered-down fortifications, crumbling churches,—all these appear to your astonished vision. A ruined city—but living in destruction. In many instances the resemblance to human habitations is very striking; and, as one of our party remarked, “ ’tis easy to imagine that the style of Gothic architecture was suggested by some such freaks of nature”. The dark green Yellowstone is seen for a short distance where the imprisoning walls of the canon open, to receive in their gloomy embrace the waters of Tower Creek. The eastern wall of the chasm is composed almost entirely of sulphur, and the immense bank is a brilliant yellow in the sunlight. Ranged along the summit, like a cornice to some gigantic cloth of gold tapestry, are perpendicular columns of trap rock—of the same length, and so evenly placed as to seem almost an artificial construction. Descending the precipitous trail, where a false step in the shaley rock would probably enable one to see more wonders than we were in search of, we crossed Tower Creek and encamped on a small bottom land a few hundred yards above the falls.
Although the dull roar of falling water had been heard for sometime past, as yet we had obtained no glimpse of the cataract; so, hastily taking the saddles off our horses, we hurried to behold its beauty. Arriving at the point of view, a scene was presented to our vision which in all bur wanderings nothing surpassed in loveliness. The char waters, coaxed by the sun from some snow glacier far up in the mountains, curve into sight round the base of a turretlike
I
234
THE SCHOLASTIC
rock and leap from their airy perch one hundred and seventy-two feet, into the gorge the Yellowstone reaches up to receive them. On either side, the rocks rise abruptly from the brink of the falls, over two hundred feet—forming two immense towers, which have given a name to the creek. In the background is the mountain of the ruined city, with its crown of tall green pines a thousand feet above he river. The walls of the canon immediately below the falls are of a vivid velvety green, some bright moss finding a home on the rough surface, nourished by the waving spray. On the brink is an enormous boulder, resting where it was left by some boy Titan, who tired of building a dam and probably got into some other mischief. It divides the waters into two equal sheets, but it is likely this feature will pass away in a few years, as the rock already overhangs the chasm. The volume of water is about the size of Minnehaha, but the cataract is just three times the height. What a wonderful country we are in! These falls, if in any eastern State, would have a world-wide reputation, and yet in the descriptions of wonderland tourists they have received but a passing notice. After “ lunching our curiosity,” we returned to camp to fortify ourselves for a descent into the Grand Canon of the Yellowstone, which is here comparatively easy. The fortification consisted of broiled antelope-steak and grouse, hot biscuits coffee and canned fruits. The work progressed rapidly and we were soon in condition to bid defiance to hunger (?) for two or three hours. Equipped with a meerschaum filled with ‘ Lone Jack,’ some fishing tackle and a box of grasshoppers, we left for the Canon (Jack alone occupied the pipe). After a scrambling slide down the mountain, we landed in a pile of rocks, on the shore of the river. I fully intended to admire the scenery when I left camp, but after the first cast of my line in the green waters, Pluto took possession of my intention to use in paving his dominion. No sooner had the grasshopper touched the surface than it disappeared, and with a sizz! my line cut through the water, describing circles and numerous geometrical figures before I succeeded in landing my prize. It was a five-pound trout, and I allowed it to dance Von Weber’s “Last Waltz of the Maniac” among the rocks before I unhooked it. It was fine sport, and one after another of the speckled beauties was rapidly added to my string, until in half an hour there was a hundred pounds less trout in the river. But then, the sport began to have rather the appearance of wanton destruction,—so, though loth to leave it, I returned to camp witn a load of ‘ brain food,’ sufficient for at least one of our mess. Soon after, five other fishermen returned, each with a heavy string of trout, and the camp looked very much like a Friday market. I am not an epicure, so instead of a dissertation on the fine delicate flavor of the fish, I will simply remark they were luscious. Supper over, myself and one of the young ladies took a stroll towards the falls, and after rather reckless climbing, gained a new view from the summit of the towerlike rock above them. We were the only ones who attempted this breakneck feat, but were fully repaid for our hardihood. The mass of rock bn which we crouched so far overhung the falls that a stone dropped from its edge ailghted but a few feet from the boulder on the brink. My hair, as I gazed, certainly had an upward tendency, and I drew back with a nervous shudder, having the sensation that our rock was felling with the waters. My companion gave but one glance—and then, with pale cheeks, we turned and made
our way down from the dizzy height, crawled around the “Devil’s Hoof,” and soon were back in camp, relating our exploit to an incredulous audience. In the twilight I walked down to where I had encamped the year before,. and nothing so impressed me with the solitude of this wild country as the undisturbed remains of our camp fire; the grassy bed we had used, decayed, yet still bearing the im- • pression of our bodies; and the tin plate, recording the date -of encampment and number of our party, still pinned with an old fork to the trunk of a pine. All was untouched. No human footstep had again disturbed the solitude which we had broken for a few hours—perhaps for the first time. I took the rusty fork out of the tree, read the inscription on the plate and then replaced it, perhaps not to be handled again until the snows of another long winter will give way to the short summer, and some strange tourist will gratify his curiosity and moralize on the brief legend. The ashes of a dead fire are sometimes suggestive:—those had again a bright blaze, and in its light I saw the three forms gathered round it, each preparing his evening meal. They recalled the night of physical suffering, when acute pain kept me awake during the long starlight; and I heard again—but in reality—the rushing waters, the loud roar of the fells in the still night, and saw the tops of the pines swaying gently, swept by the waving wind. They recalled the keen disappointment that my unfortunate accident should necessitate the abandoning of the trip, aud the blessings heaped on the horse whose stupid stumble was the cause of a. bruised body and broken bones. But the light of the dis-, tant camp fire coming through the trees showed at my feet nothing but a heap of ashes; so I returned to the tent, and with nature’s lullaby soon fell into a calm, restful sleep.
[to be continued.]
What Use!
The discourse on wine, copied in a former number of The Scholastic, has been the occasion of a few reflections in my mind, which ran something like this: Yes, I do thank God every day of my life, when I see a man drinking a glass of wine or liquor, that I am not like him, not so unfortunate. I would not become a censor of public morals, nor condemn any man; and I think the reference to the publican in the temple' very unjust, save in the few exceptional cases where a man who professes temperance is a hypocrite, and uses cant to insinuate himself into society, when the knowledge that he was a drunkard would have excluded him. The gentleman uses many Illustrations to prove his point. Of what value are they? Would he illustrate, let him ask the orphan reduced to beggary, and worse still, moral degradation, depravity intellectual and moral, brought about by the wine-cup in the hands of a parent who is now suffering the torments of hell. “ The drunkard .... shall never enter the kingdom of. heaven.” Ask the widow’s tears, or the wife mourning the moral death of a once noble and loving husband. Let. him ask
“ The crumbling bones of victims fallen low.”
These are illustrations, practical ones, and by no means hard to find. We have all met them, and it makes my heart sick to see those who are in high station attempt to justify the useless, insane practice. How ofc
The men, whom we have named and sought To fill?the highest place,
i
THE SCHOLASTIC.
235
Have turned upon us, in their shame, and taught -Us lessons of disgrace.	•
And yet the gentleman brings forward logic to his aid, and makes a long speech in favor of moderate drinking. The main argument is this: “ A man may take a glass of wine or liquor and commit no sin,” and the principle that is to regulate his conscience is this: “when he discovers in it the approximate cause of sin, and not till then, is he bound to abstain from it as from the association of a fiend.” Mow that looks plausible enough, and in a general sense may be true; but’ affirmative promises cannot produce a negative conclusion, neither can a principle which is in itself true and good produce an evil result. Now anyone who has devoted his attention for any length of time to the study of human nature 'will tell you the direct result of this principle is the cause of three-fourths the misery and crime with which the world is burdened to-day. And the explanation is i The principle is an abstract one, and impossible of application. The difficulty in this case is the impossibility of determining where the practice ceases to be a virtue (?) and becomes a sin. If you were excecuting a piece of drawing when your instruments were required to be absolutely correct, and suppose they were not correct and were growing worse at each succeeding step, would you expect to arrive at a true result? Now this is preceisely the case in regard to liquor. Your moral nature is to be your guide, and it requires the utmost delicacy of balance, the nicest precision; but the first effect of liquor is to increase the desire for more, and at the same time to destroy that moral nature which is, under the hypothesis, your only guide. It is not destroyed at a single blow, but gradually it is weakened as the desire increases, and at last the victim of this pernicious principle drifts away from all restraint and is dashed to pieces on the rocks of intemperance. “If it endangers his moral nature?” “If it becomes a source of temptation ? If it impairs the duty he owes to his family ? ” It does endanger his moral nature. It is a source of temptation, for surely the unhappiness and crime brought about by drunkenness was not deliberate and wilful on the part of the agents. No; they were firm in the sense of possession of this same moral strength, anc they fell. “ He who trusts to his own strength shall fall.” That maxim, uttered more than eighteen hundred years ago, has never been proved untrue, but is strengthened by observation every day.
It does impair the duty he ows to his family. It is .money worse than thrown away. But who is to tell him of this? Who has the right to warn him? His conscience, according to the principle, is to be his guide. But when it is removed, or worthless, what then?
“ Is there a churchyard in this Christian land That holds not drunkards’ graves ?”
I affirm it as the experience of the world since the time of Noe, down the long centuries to the present day, that there is no safety save iu absolute abstinence, the assertions of Governor Lowe to the contrary notwithstanding. “ Enter not into temptation.	T. A. D.
Sham Hayas’ Bull Base.
Some 40 years ago the managers of a race course near ' SrownsVille, bn the Monongahela, published a notice of a race, one-mile heats, on a particular day, for a purse of $100, free for anything with four legs and hair on. A man in the neighborhood, named Hayes, had a bull which he was in the habit of riding to the mill with his bag of corn, and he determined to enter him for the race. He said nothing about it to anyone; but he rode him around the track a a number of times on several bright nights, and the bull had the hang of the ground pretty well, and would keep the right course. He rode him with spurs, which the bull considered particularly disagreeable; so much so that he always bellowed when they were applied to his sides. On the morningpf the race, Hayes came upon the ground “on horseback” on his bull. Instead of a saddle he had a dried ok-hile, the head part of which, with the horns still on, he had placed on the rump. He carried a short tin horn in his hand. He rode up to the judges’ stand and offered to enter his bull for the race, but the owners of the horses, objected. Hayes appealed to the terms of the notice, insisted that this bull had “ four legs and hair on, ” and that therer fore he had a right to enter him. After a good deal of “cussin’ and discussin,” the judges declared themselves compelled to decide that the bull had the right to run, and he was entered accordingly. When the time for starting arrived the bull and the horses took their places. The horse-racers were out of humor at being bothered with the bull and at the burlesque which they supposed was intended, but thought that would be over as soon as the horses started. The signal was given, and they did start. Hayes gave a blast with his horn and sank his spurs into the bull’s sides, which bounded with a terrible bellow, at no trifling speed, the dried ox-hide flopping up and down, rattling at every jump, making a combination of noises, that had never been heard on a race-course before. The horses all flew off the track, every one seemed to be seized with a sudden determination to take the shortest cut to get out of the Redstone country, and not one of them could be brought back in time to save their distance. The purse was given . to Hayes under a great deal of hard swearing on the part of the owners of the horses. A general row ensued, but the fun of the thing put the crowd all oh the side of the bull.	^.5
The horsemen contended that they were swindled out of the purse, and that if it had not been for Hayes’ horn and ox-hide, which he ought not have been permitted to bring on the ground, the thing would not have turned out as it did. Upon this Hayes told them that his bull could beat any of their horses anyhow, and if they would put up $100 against the purse he had won, he would take off his oxrhide and leave his tin horn and run a fair race with them. -His offer was accepted and his money staked. They again took their places at the starting post, and, the’signal given; Hayes gave the bull another touch with- his spurs, and the bull gave another tremendous bellow. The horses remembered the horrible sound, and thought all the rest was coming as before. Away they went again in spite of all the exertions of their riders, while Hayes galloped his bull around the track again and won the money.. From that time they nicknamed him Sham HayeS’k He afterwards removed to Ohio, but his nickname stuck to him as long as he lived.	•
What State is round on both ends and high in the middle? Ohio.
O ver the shop door of a pork-butcher, in an English village in the eastern counties, may be seen a sign-board representing a man in a black coat brandishing a hatchet, with the inscription, “ John Smith kills pigs like his father.”
230
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Th® Scholastic*
Published, every Week during Term Time, at NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
' All communications should be seiit to Editor Scholastic
Notre Dame. Indiana. '	-
.	TERMS:	'
Oneyear.........................$1 00
' Single copies (6 cts.) of the publication can be obtained at the Students’ Office.	-	- - -
The weather is delightful this week.
A notice of the Pliiloaemic Debate on the 17thJ will appear next week.	....	...
. Rev. Father O’Reilly had a grand celebration of St. Patrick’s Day in Valparaiso. '	.
Rev. Father- O’MahonY preached an eloquent sermon at St. Mary’s on the 15th inst. .	.	.
Rev. Father P. Lauth, C. S. C., celebrated St. Patrick’s Day in his parish of Lowell.	.
We heard the Plain Chant last Sunday, and we freely confess that we heard several good voices.
Rev. Father ToonEy, C. S. C., pronounced the pane* gyric of St. Patrick in the College Church on the 17th inst.
Very Rev. Father Provincial is absent, on a two Weeks’ visit to the Establishments of the Congregation in Ohio. _	.	.......... .	..
An account of the. celebration of St. Patrick’s Day. at Notre Dame was received too late for publication this week.	...
We are soriy that a temporaiy absence from home debarred us from the pleasure of being present at the debate, on the evening of the 17th.
. We are glad to hear that Prof. Dowling intends to go into business for himself in Laporte. Were he to leave that dead:alive little city his loss would be sorely felt.
. E. Blaine Walker, of Helena, M. T., an old. student of Notre Dame, is with us for ,a short time. , We wish he
' .could remain longer, but business takes him away after Easter. ,
. We had anticipated the pleasure of spending the 17th ia. Chicago, but circumstances which came not a bit under our jurisdiction prevented us from realizing our anticipations. .
. The cars on the Michigan Southern and Lake Shore road are jammed full every train west. We found a comfortable seat however this week, and moreover made the acquaintance of one of the most amiable conductors of the road, the son of our old friend Colonel Palmer.
•. The best way to get rid of several saloons in South Bend would be to - prosecute unmercifully those saloon keepers who have abused their license. The ladies of South Bend would get rid of the grog-shops in less than a week byresorting to this simple plan—and it is lawful, too.
, We failed to chronicle last week the visit of Mr. Edward Dunbar, of the celebrated Bethesda Springs, Waukesha, Wisconsin. Ed is well remembered by. all his Professors at Notre Dame, and is always a welcome guest at Notre Dame. _ His. last visit.was too short. We ask for an encore, and hope it will soon be given.
Rev. Father Sfillard’s letter to the Temperance meet* ing in South Bend last Sunday afternoon was the best thing on the programme. This is the opinion of the Professors of the College who were present, and our own after reading the full account given in the enterprising and eminently successful Daily Tribune of South Bend.
. It was a premature announcement, given by our “All Around man,” that the ladies of South Bend had been going around praying in the saloons. We think they have the good sense not to do so. We know there are many who will not take part in any such farcical performance, just because they Would not bring religion arid temperance into bad reprite.
The ladies of St. Patrick’s congregation, South Bend, had a supper prepared for their friends, in the Academy of Music, on the evening of the 17th, the proceeds of which were to be, applied to the liquidation of the debt on the new parochial school-house. We are glad to hear it was a success, and even surpassed the anticipations of the most sanguine. The ladies of St. Patrick’s congregation are always a success in anything they undertake.
Notre Dame has been visited lately by quite a number of railroad men, among others by Messrs. H. E. Sargent, Gen’l Superintendent; F. Hoops, Gen’l Freight Agent, and Sir. Hopper, Western Superintendent, all of the Michigan Central R. R. The General Passenger Agent of the Great Western and the Western Passenger Agent of the Erie Road were here at the same time.
A . new Depot is soon to be erected on the Michigan Central Road in close proximity to Notre Dame. Tickets to all the principal points East and West will be sold at this depot. It will be quite an accommodation to many of our visitors. ,	,
South Bend and Niles are equally distant from Chicago. Niles may be reached by rail as quickly as South Bend is by carriage. The fare to Niles will be somewhat less than the fare to South Bend.
Roll of Honor.
seniors. ,
J. Browne, L. Burridge, W. Ball, C. Bowman, A. Baca, M, Bastarache, C. Berdei, 3. Brogan, O. Corcoran, H. Cassidy, G. Crummey, W. Clarke, P. Cooney, T. Casbin, J. Caren, E. Dann, H. Dehner, T. Daily, C. Dodge, B., Euans, J. Egan, M. Foley, C. Favey, J. Flaherty, 3. Girard, T. Grier, T. Gallagher, J.Gillen, E. Graves, C. Hess, 3. Hogan, T. Hansard, B. Hersey, A. Kreieh-ganer, 3. Kennedy, M. Keller, J. Kelly, P. Lilly, 3. Luby, J. McManus, E. McCunniff, S. Marks, T. McDonough, B. McGinnis, D. McGinnis, M. McCullough, J. McMahon, E. McSweeney, T. Murphy, E. Monohan, A. Mooney, D. Maloney, E. McLaughlin, P. McDonald, B. Mathers, J. Mathews, J. Ney, J. O’Connor, J. E. O’Brien, P. O’Mahony, T. O’Mahony, P. O’Meara, 3. O’Toole, 3. Ott, M. Proctor, J. F. Budge, J. Budge, G. Budge, G. Boulhac, L. Sanders, F. Scrafford, P. Skahill, S. Studebaker, H. Shephard, J. Van Dusen, J. Wolfe, H. Walker, C. Walter, L. Watson.
.	.	juniors. -	-	•
Bonifacio J. Baca, Joseph Beegan, W. P. Breen, Joseph Buchanan, L. Busch, L. Best, John Cassella, A. Crunkilton, John Cullen, J. Doyle, W. Darst, J. Ewing, Frank Ewing, F. Frazee, C. Freese, G. J. Gross, J. C. Golsen, D. Gorman, C. Hake, L. W. Hatch, M. J. Kinsella, S. Kennedy, J. Keilty, James Kinley, C.-A. Lewis, B. Le Fevre, G. Lehman, M. McCormack, G. McNulty, F.H. Farrell,..T. McNamara, Janies O’Connor, N.J. Mooney, W. S. Meyer, Thomas Monahan, Joseph E< Marks, F.

THE SCHOLASTIC.
237
Sillier, C._ J. O’Connor, E. Riopelle, E. S. Ratigan, J. Willis, R. Sobey, John F. Soule, William Shulthies, Louis Smith, James Smith, T. Solon, F. Wittlesberger, Edgar Wood, John Cohen, John Dalley.	.
Class Honors.
LANGUAGES AND FINE ARTS.
Friday, March 13th, 1874.	-
,, .	GERMAN.	.
C. Burger, W. J. Ball, G. Burbridge, J. D. Callery, J. Cullen, C. W. Cohen, J. Egan, G. Fraueuknccht, J. Goisen, J. Girard, W. Gross, J. P. Hunt, J. S. Hughes, A. Kramer, W. Meyer, F. Miller, B. Mathers, J. Marks, S. Marks, B. McGinnis, D. J. McGinnis, E. McSweeney, M. J. McCullough, J. B. McDonough, G. McNulty, K. Norris, C. Otto, J. Quin, G. Roulhac, A. Schmidt, E. Sugg, W. Schuithics, G. Sugg, J. Soule, T. Serafford, R. Soby, F. Thalmann, F. Wittlesberger, J. P. White, J. E. Wood, C. Walsh.
-	FRENCH.
J. Borie, R. Bull, J. Delvecchio, G. Frauenknecht, G. Gross, ,C. Hake, B. Le Fevre, J. Lambin, J. Minton, G. Roulhac, J. Rofinot, C. Stucker, F. Smyth, R. Walker,
AI US IC.
. Piano—J. Beegan, J. Borie, W. Breen, C. Burger, W. Ball, C. Clarke, G. Cunnea, J. Campbell, J. D. Callery, N. S. Dryfoos, J. Goisen, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen, H. Hayes, J. Hughes, C. Hake, A. Kramer, P. Lilly, J. Luby, D. J. McGinnis, J. McDonough, C. O’Connor, C. Otto, E. Stichtenoth, G. Sugg,
Violin—J. Brennan, J. N. Dryfoos, J. Delvecchio, T. Gallagher, F. Hoffman, E. Kimm, J. Lynch, L. Loser, J. P. McHugh, J. Mathews, F. Miller, E. O’Connel’., C. Otto, J. E. O’Brien, J. Quinn, G. Roulhac, T. Sauvageot.
Guitar—J. B. Crummey, G. Crummey, T. Cochrane.
Flute—W. Ohlen, J. Rofinot.
Drawing—R. Bull, J. Cullen, J. Cassella, N. S. Dryfoos, J. French, V. Hansen, J. Lambin, J. Lynch, E. S. Monahan, W. McClure, F. Peril, A. Schmidt, W. Schuithics, C, Stucker, L. Smith, G. Stong, H. Zuber.
All Around.
Shamrocks were quite abundant on Tuesday.
There were a great many visitors around the College last Sunday.
St. Joseph’s Day was not especially observed on Thursday.
The Infirmary is getting somewhat thinned out.
The smoking room is not patronized much these days.
Can’t we say to some of our friends “ Go in lemons, or oranges ?”
The two recreation days, Tuesday and Wednesday, were excellent ones.
. We know a base-ball nine that is pretty well scared, since Wednesday especially.
The young legal-cap letter paper is a favorite among the students. It is so very convenient.
: The traffic in those pretty little square letters has been decreased by the Prefect of Discipline.
Base-Ball has been getting quite lively lately. There was an excellent game played on Wednesday. There is a nine taking up arms for active service which’ promises to eclipse all others.
We have heard nothing of the Atlantic Base-Ball Club for a long time. We would like to see them in the field for championship. Trot them out, John 1
Sticking one’s nose in a tumbler may be tolerated some
times, but we do not think there is the least excuse for doing so with the butter.
We had the pleasure of tasting (a big taste too 1) of a nice cake the other day. We disposed of our share with the greatest avidity, for we thought it tinctured some of matri* monial-alliance cake. But it was a birthday cake.
In the morning, during the day and at night, plaintive strains of unearthly melodies issue forth from the west wing of the College. “Oh dear, what can the matter be?”
“ Plug ” hats and swallow-tail coats are much talked of by the members of the Senior Class. We do not think it would be beneath their dignity to wear such articles; on the contrary, it would be consonant with their rank.
Rumor says that the Minims are going to give a public debate ou the following momentous question: “Resolved —That Detention ought to be Abolished.” This is the leading question of the day. It is one that interests us all, and one whose decision is for our weal or woe.
Those things which they call “lookin”’-glasses are very abundant in the study halls. They are a part of the necessaries of our bon-ton. Some of our handsome students keep them just to take a peep at once in a while; but lo! when they behold their beaming countenance reflected they are struck with admiration.
Subscriptions to the Hew Tabernacle.
[continued.] Hannibal Green, Troy, Ills..................$10 00
Mrs. Helena Bluman, Victoria, Texas.........10 00
Mrs. Esther Devine, Dubuque, Iowa.............10	00
Nicholas, H. Thouron, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.. 10 00 James Claffey, Bertrand, Michigan.............10	00
Peter Daily, Niles, Michigan..................10	00
John Curran, Trenton, New Jersey..............10	00
[to be continued].
St. Cicilia. Philomathean Association.
, The 29th regular meeting was held on March 16th. The following members destinguished themselves in Declamation : W. P. Breen’s “ Fate of Dr. Marshall,” was agreeably told. John Cullen well displayed “ Belshazzar’s Feast The “ Old Oaken Bucket,” by C. Nichols, did not fair to pieces; F. Miller’s “Warrior’’fought well for a young fellow. J. E. Wood’s “Naval Engagement” was sea-like; “ Cataline’s Conspiracy,” by W. Meyer, was well contrived; L Loser’s “ Last Hours ” were thrilling; Mr. Ewing’s “ Jeriy the Miller ” was full of sympathy. C ompositions were next on the programme: “ America,” by J. F. Beegan, was nicely written and well read. “ Washington’s Birthday,” by E. Ratigan, was sensible; “The Present Day,” by C. Campeau was pretty well described for a new beginner. These over, W. Breen read selections from the “ Philomathean Standard.” The following articles were the best: “1873, and a Glance into 1874,” by FideUio, is replete with good, sound, sensible thoughts; eveiy young student ought to read the article. “ A Brief Criticism on a Musical Euter-tianment, by “ Trix,” is truthful and well written; “A Religious Festival,” by W. N. L., was well described; the “ GreatMen of New York,” by “ Cetera desunt” was historical, interesting, and instructive; the Localisms, though not very numerous this week, were listened to with much pleasure, and are a sure cure for the “ blues.”
•	J. F. Beegan Corresponding Setty.
23B	. / THE SCHOLASTIC.
• Excelsior Base-Ball Club.
Mr Editor.—On March 8th a meeting of the Excelsior Ease-Ball Club was held for the pUpose of electing officers for the remaining portion of the scholastic year, which resuited as follows;
Director—Bro. Marcellinus, C. S. 0.
President—Wm. 8. Meyer.
Vice-President—Chas. Campeau.
Secretary—J. F. Beegan.
Treasurer—B. J. Baca.
Monitor—Jos. Campbell.	.
Captain First Nine—Chas. Campeau.
Captain Second Nine—Jos. Campell.
’	Jos. F. Beegan, Sec'y.
Mission; at Meexae.
We clip the following from a Manitowoc paper.*
*	Neeme, March 3,1874.
Mr. Editor:—The Week just closed has been a remarkable one in Meeme. ’ The Rev. P. P. Cooney and Father Mahony, members of the Order of the Holy Cross at Notre Dame, Indiana, gave a mission in St. Isidore's Catholic Church, commencing on Sunday, the 22d of February, and'ending on Monday, March the 2d.. Crowds of people daily thronged the spacious edifice to listen to the eloquent preachings of the fathers. Eloquent indeed they were, especially that of the Rev. P. P. Cooney, who is a.man-of extraordinary intellectual power, sublime moral character, and passionate, soul-stirring eloquence. In the course of these nine days he delivered more than twenty five sermons upon the various topics connecteiwith the salvation of man, which for depth of reasoning, soundness of logic and force of delivery, surpassed any thing'that it has ever been my good fortune to listen to/ But the principal jewel incite crown of his glory was theorganizatibn of a Temperanccj&eiety, on Sunday afternoon. After a po werful discourse oh the evils of intemper" ance, he invited all the sterner seX who wished to sever the - cbainsjtbat bound,'.them' to King Alcbohol to step forward.
He was nett prepared for the result, nor did his most sanguine hopes anticipate such a general uprising. Nearly every male member present arose as one man, fully impressed with the solemnity of the occasion and the awful responsibility of the act , which they were about to perform, advanced to the altar, before which all reverently knelt. The scene was now impressive in the extreme. There, in the presence of four holy ministers of the Gospel, and beneath the gaze of mothers, sisters and sweethearts, who were weeping .tears of joy, knelt more than one hundred of the youth and manhood of the congregation. There, in the presence of those solemn and living witnesses, this honored one hundred firmly and fearlessly renounced all further connection with the accursed poison that is wrecking thousands of families and filling the world with wretchedness and woe. There, with intellects unimpaired, and in the full possession of their faculties, they gladly bid adieu to the “ demon of destruction ” and successfully leaped the “ bloody chasm ” into which sooner or later will be hurled the tippler and the drunkard.
Rev. Father Cooney delivered his lecture on ‘* The Question of Questions” last night. The reverend gentleman, with his associate, leaves here to-day, bearing the good wishes of all those who had the happiness to be present at even one of their discourses.	•	■
;	'	Kook.
Young girl of the period, remember that if thouwearest a tight boot thou wilt have a narrow understanding, and that if thou makest the waist of the body too small, thou mayest make the waste of thy health too great.
Washington, ca Educathn without Religion.
In his Farewell Address, Washington said.- “ Of all the dispositions and habits which lead to political prosperity, religion and morality are indispensable supports. In vain would that man claim the tribute of patriotism who should labor to subvert these great pillars of human happiness— these firmest'props of the duties of men and citizens. The mere politician equally with the pious man, ought to respect them. A volume could not trace all their connections with private and public felicity. Let it simply be • asked, where is the security for property, for reputation, for life, if the sense of religious obligation desert the oaths which are the instruments of investigation in courts of justice? And let us indulge with caution the supposition that morality can be maintained without religion. Whatever may be conceded to the influence of refined education, on minds of peculiar structure, reason and experience both forbid us to expect that national morality can prevail in exclusion of religious principles. It is substantially true that virtue or morality is a necessary spring of popular government. Who that is a sincere friend to it, can look with indifference upon attempts to shake the foundation of the fabric?”
A Correspondent of the Daily Graphic, writing from London, discusses the impurity of liquors there, and says the wine called sherry is adulterated with sulphuric acid and alcohol, and contains over fifty per cent, of proof spirits. A sample of sherry called “ Hambro ” was recently analyzed in London, and was found to be composed of forty gallons of potato spirits, fifty-six gallons of water, four gallons of “ capillaire,” and ten gallons of grape-juice. The whole cost of this mixture of one hundred and ten gallons was thirty-seven dollars, and it sold, when bottled, for nearly two thousand dollars! But monstrous as was the price of this mixture, there are other species that have been of viler compounding, and have sold for even a higher price; and yet men will pay for and drink sulphuric acid and water, and pronounce it “ very goodalbeit the chemist stands by and tells them that they are drinking liquors formed of base and most deadly ingredients.
A curious way has lately been discovered to rid premises of rats. 'A little girl had a pet cat; she also had a small sleigh-bell; she playfully tied the little bell round pussey’s neck and let her run. From that night no rat was seen on the premises. The family at first wondered what became of their old pests; some one laughingly suggested it was the cat’s bell. To test the matter, the bell was taken off the cat and in a few weeeks the rats returned. The bell was again replaced, and again the rats disappeared, but the neighbors complained loudly of the great increase in rats. They were advised to try the bell, did so, and that whole side of the country is cleared of the intolerable nuisance. Try it, and report the effect.
House keeper.
Sydney Smith once fell into an argument concerning he comparative stature and amount oFbrains among the men of his day. “ Why,” said he, “you would never suspect our friend Jeffrey of knowing much, and as for-, he has not body enough to cover his mind decently with; his intellect is improperly exposed.” .	.
THE- SCHOLASTIC. :	239
SAINT MARY’S ACADEMY.
St. Mary’s Academy, March 17,1874.
Last Sunday, being Latare Sunday, the beautiful ceremony was performed of presenting a Golden Rose to the most exemplary young lady of the Senior Department, The pesentation was made by Very Rev. Father General. He gave an interesting account of the origin of the ceremony. It has been the custom for many centuries for the Pope to sent a Golden Rose to some one of the crowned princesses of Europe who is deemed most worthy of the honor. Crowned ladies are now rather scarce; but in our blessed land, where every one is a sovereign, there would be a great number of candidates even at St. Mary’s; therefore the aspirants have to be limited to the pupils who are in the Graduating, and First and Second Senior Classes, and have received their monthly ticket of conduct.
The following young ladies were on the list, and had the privilege of drawing lots for the Rose:
Misses N. Langdon, R. Spier, R. Devoto, L. Black, L. Niel, M. Letourneau, M. Quan, M. Kearney, M. Brown.
Miss N. Langdon, of Joliet, Ill., was the fortunate one, and she received the Rose from the hands of Very Rev. Father General, amid the applause of her schoolmates and congratulations of all present.
Several others who stand number one were not put on the list because they have not been present during the whole term. The ceremony closed by the reading of some very fine selections by Misses L. Black, N. Gross, and L. West.
TABLET OF HONOR.
Misses L. Niel, M. Kearney, A. M. Clarke, N. Gross, R. Devoto, M. Brown, R. Spier, L. West, L Black, N. Langdon, L. Dragoo, J. Walker. A. Lloyd, J. Kearney, B. Reynolds, M. Wicker, V. Ball, L. Ritchie, L. Dent, M. Letourneau, J. Locke, E. Boyce, K. Finley, A. Curtin, M. Walker, G. Walton, J. Fanning, A. Keeline, A. Clarke, N. Foote, A St. Clair, M. Quan, G. Phillips, J. Stimpson, C. Nason, E Sweeney, E. Bohan, M. Johnson, E. Denehey, E. Dougherty, L. Arnold, R. Burke, L. Pfeiffer, A. Conahan, N. Ball, N. McEwen, F. Moore, J. Bennett, N. Huber, M. Emmons, L. Wyman, L. Keena, R. Roscesco, M. Kengel, A. Sullivan, M. Barry, M. Bell, A. Hambleton, M. Hoover, M. Cummings, F. Lloyd, A. Minton, L. Bradford, L. Henrotin, E. Ross, E. O’Connor, R. Cauoll, R. Klar, L. Lilly, C. Miller, L. Johnson, T. Heckman, E. Gosse, K. Graham, M. O’Mahoney, H. Miller, F. Gunzert, A. Mertz, T. Howard, J. Haney, S. Murrin, M. Poquette, M. Klotz. C. Sottrup, M. Sheil, A. Boser, A. Gareis, C. Morgan, K. Irmiter, K. Engel, J. Adams, R. Netti er, J. Riopelle,
1st French Class—Misses A. M. Clarke, N. Gross, R. M. Spier, M. Kearney, L. West, J. Walker, M. Letourneau, L. Dent, M. Walker, M. Poquette.
2nd French Class—L. Ritchie, J. Stimson, M. Barry, C. Sottrup, M. and E. Thompson, M. Resch, B. Wilson.
3rd French Class—Misses L. Dragoo, A. T. Clarke, A. St. Clair, A. Conahan, F. Moore, L. Bradford, C. Morgan, B. Golsan, A. Smith, K. Morehead, K. Hutchinson, M. Hutchinson.
Latin—Misses A. Curtin and M. Emmons.
1st German Class—Misses M. Klotz, M. Kengel, L. Pfeiffer, L. Black, II. Miller, M. A. Faxon, A. Garies, A. Mertz, F. Gunzert, K. Irmiter.
2nd German Class—M:sses B. Golsan, E. Richardson,
R. Roscesco, L. Dennehy, R. Engel, M. Martin, M. Kaese-berg, C. Germain; M. Hoover, M. A. Schulthies. .
3rd German Class—Misses G. Phillips, C. Miller, L. Kelly, E. Schnoback.
Plain Sewing—J. Locke, J. Kearney, G. Walton, A; T. Clarke, J. Fanning, G. Phillips, R. Burke, F. Moore, A. Mertz, F. Gunzert, L. Henrotin, N. McEwen, K. Casey, T. Heckman, N. Huber, E. Ross.
DRAWING.
1st Class, 1st Division—Misses R. Devoto and N. McEwen.	.	.
1st Class, 2nd Drv.—Misses L. Ritchie, L. Henrotin, E. Sweeney, G. Walton, N. McAuliffe and M. Kaeseberg.
2nd Class, 1st Div.—Misses C. Morgan and M. Cummings.
2nd Class—Miss M. Resch.
3rd Class—Misses N. Huber, R. Klar, M. A. Schulthies, M. O’Connor, M. Ewing, A. Koch, A. Cullen, L. Harrison, M. Jackson, G. Phillips, L. McKinnon, F. Taylor, E. Ross, F. Howard and R. Nettler. ' ’
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN VOCAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Lillie West.
2nd Div.—N. Foote, C. Miller, E. O’Connor, L. Black, E. Haggerty, M. Quan.	. .	:
2nd Class—T. Heckman, J. Walker, J. Kearney, J.
Riopelle.- ---
2nd Div.—M. Kearney, J. Locke, E. Dougherty, A. Minton, M. Riley.
3rd Class—A. Roberts, A. Keeline, J. Stimson, L. Pfeiffer, A. Garies, N. Huber, C. Orr, L. Arnold.
2nd Drv.—M. Klotz, M. Jackson, J. Brown, R. Canoil. instrumental music.
1st Class—J. Walker, E. Black.
2nd Class—N. McEwen, T. Heckman, M. Emmons, N. Foote, A. Smith.
2nd Div.—M. Quan, A. Roberts.
3rd Class—A. Clarke, E. Gosse, E. O’Connor, N. Gross,. C. Nason, R. Devoto,' A. Minton, M. Letourneau, M. Barry, M. Resch, K. Hutchinson.
2nd Div.—A. St. Clair, L. Wyman, A. Nichols, L. Arnold, E. Denehey, M. Kearney.
4th Class—M. Hutchinson, J. Stimpson, A. Keeline, A. Boser.	.	.
2nd Div.—B. Wilson, L. Henroten, B. Golsen, N. Hubert, M. Klotz, C. Miller.'
5th Class—M. Pritchard, L. McKinnon, M. Faxon, M. Johnson, K. Engel, M. Kaeseberg, M. Jackson, A. Allen, . L. Bradford.
2nd Div. M. Brown, F. Howard, L. Lilly, J. Andrews L. Johnson, G. Phillips, E. Lange.
6th Class—A. Mertz. H. Peak, H. Hand, A. Goewey -L. Walsh, M. Walsh, A. Walsh.	'
2nd Div.—E. Schnoback, E. McDougall, J. McDougall, : N. McAuliffe, R.‘Canoil, H. Miller, I. Fisk.’
7th Class—C. .Orr. E Dougherty, R. Callery, M. Mar- • tin, M. Reynolds, M. Summers, R.- McKeaver, S. Kenna, M. O’Connor, E L ippin, K. Casev, E. Neteler.
8th Class—Fl Dee, E. Simpson.
9th Class J. Brown.
10th Class—M. Poquette, K. Graham, C. Hughes, M.
Hughes.
Exercises—N. McEwen, E. Gosse, E. Denehey. A. ■ Smith, M. Emmons, N. Foote, M. Quan. A. Clarke, E. O’-Connor. C Nason. A. Nichols, G Phillips, L. Bradford, M. Barry. M. Klotz. M. Hoover, A. Cullen.
Harp—J. Walker, M. Wicker.
2nd Class—E. O’Connor, M. Walker.
Guitar—L. Harrison.	. .
Harmony—R. Spier, J. Walker, E. Black,
240
THE SCHOLASTIC. -
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1814,enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.	.	_
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Bailroad, is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
TERMS:
Matriculation Pee, --------	$ 5 00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing
and'Mending of Linens, per Session' of five months, -	- ISO 00
French, German. Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music, - - - - - - - - - 12 50 Use of Piano,	-	-	-	-	•	-	-	-	- ' -	*10 00
Use of Violin, ---------- -	2 00
Drawing, -	--	--	--	--	--	- 15 00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, -	- _ -	-	5 00
Graduation Fee—Commercial^ $3; Scientific, $8; Classical, - 10 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are
charged, extra, -	-	35 00
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The First S-ssion begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on th 1st of February.	.	•	'	•
For further particulars, address
Bev; A. LBMONNIBR, C.S.C., President.
NILES I SO UTH BEND R.R
GOING SOUTH.	GOING NORTH.
Leave Niles, - - - 921am. Leave South Bend, - 6.30 a.m. “	5.20 p.m. “	'	11.00 a m.
“	7.35 p.m. “	“	6.15 p.m.
SUNDAY TRAINS.	'
Leave Niles, - - - 10.00 a.m. I Leave South Bend, - 8.00 a.m.
••	*’	7.35 p.m. |	“	5 00 p.m.
S. R. KING, Agent, South Bend.
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, December 14,1873, trains will leave Sonth Bend ’ as follows:
GOING EAST.
1.47 a. st. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 9 53; Cleveland, 2.15 p. m.; Buffalo, 9.10 p. m.
1O.1O a. m (No. 2), Mail, over Main and Air Lines; Arrives at Toledo, 5.10 p. m.; Cleveland. 9 50 p. m.
11.58 p. m. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line;
Arrives at Toledo, 5.25; Cleveland, 9.40 p. m.; Buffalo ' 4 20]a. m.
9.09 p. m. (No. 61, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40: Cleveland, 7.05; Buffalo, 1.25 p. m.
3.45 P- st. (No 70), Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
3.20 a. m. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.25; Chicago 6 55 a. m.	'	-
5.20 a. sr. (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 6.15; Chicago, 8 30 A. 3t.
6.34 P- m. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 7.30; Chicago, 10 p. m.
5.45 p. m. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte, ' 6.40; Chicago, 9 00.	....
9.05 a. st. (No. 71), Local Freight.
Noth. Conductors are positively forbidden, to carry passengers upon Through Freight Trains.	' '	’
J W. GARY, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H. PARSONS, Snp't Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.	-
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
'	CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t. -
Passengers going to local points West, should take Nos. 7, 9, ana 71; East, Nos. 2 and 70. Warsaw Express (connecting with No. 4) leaves Elkhart at 12.30 p. st., running through to Wabasu. Through tickets to all competing points in every direction. Local Tickets, Insurance tickets, K. R. Guides, etc., will be furnished upon application to the Ticket Agent.
THE OLD ‘ RELIABLE”
DWIGHT HOUSE,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and -.enllemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of home during their stay,
JERRY KNIGHT, Captain MILLS, f Proprietors.
MICHIGAN CENTRAL RAILROAD Time Table.
PENNSYLVANIA CENTRAL DOUBLE TBA0K BAILE0AD. PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO. Three daily Express Trains, with, Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between. Chicago, Pittsburgh,, Philadelphia and New ' York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9.00 p. m Arrives at New York 11 30 a. m* 2d train “	“	5.15 p. m “	“	6.41 a. m*
3rd train “	9.00 p. m “	“	11.30 p. m*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and a Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Railroad.
J.' N. MCCULLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.	'	•
J. M. C. CREIGHTON, Assistantsuperintendent, Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jr., Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia. " '
F. R. MYEXS. Geu’l Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C.' CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
* Second day. •
From and after March 1st, trains on the Michigan Central Railroad leave Niles as follows:	■
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line.
Night Express.
Mail.' -	-	-
Day Express. -Accommodation, Way Freight, '
Evening Express, Pacific Express, Accommodation, Mail -’ -	-
Day Express -
Way Freight -
TRAINS EASTWARD.
TRAINS WESTWARD.
12.22 a.m
9.10 a.m
11. 5'1 a.m
7.35 p.m
8.0J a.m
GSfRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Mad-Qp ison Street Bridge, as follows:	- '	"
AIR LINE DIVISION.
EASTWARD.
2.20 a.m
5.10 a.m
6.50 a.m
4.2u p.m
5.20 p.m
1.45 p.m
Mail
Three Rivers Accommodation ------
Atlantic Express'
Way Freight ----------
WESTWARD.
Three Rivers Accommodation—Arrive -	-	-	-
Mail -	---	-'	-	- - -	_	. .	_
Pacific Express -	-	-------
Way Freight- ---------
NILES AND SOUTH BEND DIVISION.
9.15 a.m - 7.40 p.m
9.0D p.m
10.33 a.m
6.45 a.m
3.5<t p.m
5.05 a.m
5.05 p.m
LEAVE NILES.
9:23 am—Connects at Niles with trains from Chicago and Michigan City. 1 '	'	'	• '
5:2 < pm—Connects at Niles with trains from Detroit and all stations on Main and Air Line. ' ''	•	■	•
7:35 p m -Connects at Niles with trains from Kalamazoo, Chicago, and Three Rivers.	■	”
' - LEAVE SOUTH BEND.
6:33 a m—Connects at Niles with Kalamazoo Accommodation direct for Chicago. 11.00 a m—Connects at Niles 'with fast Day Express east over the miin line. 6:15 a m—Connects at Niles with Atlantic Express, Kalamazoo and Three Rivers Accommodation.
„	H. E. SAKGENT, Gen’l Superintendant. -
Marl4-tf.	'	'	•■	CHICAGO.
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line	.
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo.	•
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Mairi Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning ' Express, via Main Line, ana also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, Ill., and Louisiana. Mo.
LEAVE.
*9:30 a.m.
♦9:45 a.m.
♦9:30 a.m.
[♦4:10 p.m.
{+6:30 p.m.
$9:00 p.m.
$9:45 p.m.
ARRIVE.
♦8:00'p.m
♦4:30 p.m
♦4:30 p.m, ♦9:40 a.m.
♦4:30 p.m.
|7:15 a.m.
§7:15 a.m.
♦ Except Sunday, t On Sunday runs to Springfield only $ Ex* ccpt Saturday. B Dail y. -§ Except Monday. •	■
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.	• '
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent, -
CHICAGO.	CHICAGO.
LOUISVILLE N. ALBANY & CBZCAGO B.B.
On and after Sunday. Nov. 12, 1873, trains pass New Albany and Salem Crossing, as follows:
G 01 N G N 0 Ji T H.	GOINQ SOUTH
Pass...............7 29 p. 3t. I Pass ............8 23 p.m. -
Freight............2.48 a. m. | Freight ..........10 47 a.m.
Freight............8 57 p. m. I Freight...........4.45 a.m.
Pass...............9.24 a. m. I Pass..............11.23 a.m.
' '	1	■	-	- H. N. CANIFF, Agent