Jotre Dame Scholastic.
►
DIsce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume X.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 18, 1876.	Number 11.
-i
Cross and Crown.
There is a cross of heavy weight For every human life to bear, There is a chaplet formed of thorns
For each and every brow to wear:
Oh ! when the cross of pain and woe Shall soon forever be laid down, May we receive in recompense A beautiful and fadeless crown.
A cross of toil and worldly grief, A burden of suspense and care,
Has life imposed upon us all, And each its heavy load must bear;
The clouds may lower overhead, The brgiht stars fade before our eyes, Yet faith shall point us out the path Where sacrifice, where duty lies.
A crown awaits each faithful heart, Each earnest self-denying soul,
That carries cheerfully the cross To death’s cold, unrelenting goal;
And when the veil shall roll away,
Disclosing Heaven’s endless bliss, The crown of love shall compensate The cross of such a life as this.
—Anonymous.
Modern Church-Music.
The successful cultivation of the musical drama and the different forms of instrumental music after the death of Palestrina, eventually changed the whole character of musical composition; even the old forms of Church-Music finally succumbed to the levelling influence of modern tonality. But this transformation of ecclesiastical keys was, however, gradual. The immediate successors of Palestrina, on account of their religious conviction and exalted taste, adhered to the established principles with great emulation and fidelity for more than a century.
It was then an understood matter of fact that a composer would not dare to write Church-Music, in the best sense of the word, without a consummate knowledge of contrapuntal art, based upon the system of ecclesiastical keys. Most of the composers of that time were also successful opera composers, but if one compares their masses, motets, and other ritual.pieces with their operatic efforts, the difference is clearly noticed. They well knew where the Church ended and the opera commenced, nor did they neglect religious propriety in their productions. They did not compose holy operas for the stage, and operatic masses for the altar.
Towards the beginning of the eighteenth century, how
ever, things began to change. The influence of the now universal popular dramatic music banished from the composer’s mind the old tradition of a strict Church-Music style. The composing of Church-Music was then considered but a mere secondary occupation, and thus the forms of the opera gradually crept into the mass. This transformation of style, as well as corruption of Church-Music, was in a great measure due also to instrumental music; for we even see able solo-instrumentalists rivalling gifted vocalists during the service of Mass, in the display of their acquired virtuality.
The Roman school of music remained longest true to the traditions of Palestrina’s style. It furnished many celebrated composers, among others, Allegri, the author of the renowned Miserere, which has been made the subject of so much exalted praise, and, on account of its peculiar beauty and merit, has been placed above anything written for the Church. This Miserere is still performed in the Sistine Chapel at Rome, during Passion-week.
Antonio Lotti, a pupil of Legrenzi’s, upheld the Venetian school in the true spirit of its masters, such as Andrea and Giovanni Gabrieli, Croce, Monteverde, Cavalli and Ferrari. The sacred compositions of Lotti are distinguished by truthful feeling and expression. His style is marked by great pathos and clearness in form. Lotti, like his master, was a learned contrapuntist, and understood the art of writing true Church-Music.
There are many and able representatives both of the Neapolitan and Bolognese schools. Of the former we have only to mention A. Scarlatti, who took a conspicuous part in the development of Church-Music. His masses and motets are numerous, and give ample proof that Scarlatti was an earnest disciple of and an unflinching adherent to the art principles of his great Roman and Venetian predecessors. Francesco Durante, Scarlatti’s successor and pupil, was a composer of ample resources, both in counterpoint and general musical sciences. He devoted his talent exclusively to the forms of Church Music.
Church Music in France was, with little exception, based upon the Gregorian Chant. But under the reign of Louis XIV things changed, and the opera, with its composers, singers, and instrumentalists, entered the Church and banished the Gregorian Chant from the choir. Henry Dumont, principal organist and chapel-master at the head of the king’s Church Music, was very much attached to the practice of Gregorian Chant; he had the courage to refuse to comply with the king’s wish, and thought fit to resign his position. One of Dumont’s masses “La Mease Royale," is still popular in the Church of France. Lalande, a favorite musician and composer of King Louis’, became Dumont’s successor. Lelande wrote Church-Music principally; his greatest aim was to compose according to the taste and desire of his
162
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
royal protector. Lelande’s sacred compositions were not profound with regard to harmonic treatment, though not without appropriate melodic expression. With these few exceptions, the Church-Music of French composers was in general, at this epoch, much inferior to that which they composed for the operatic stage. There was, indeed, little difference between their opera choruses and those sung during Divine service. It very often happened that the latter were simply adaptations from the opera—a favorite occupation of our modern organists and leaders of churchchoirs.
Towards the end of the first half of the eighteenth century the transformation of the formal character of Church Music, independent of the Gregorian Chant, was an accomplished fact. The purely melodic element—the principal agent of the opera and instrumental music, also became supreme with composers of Church Music. The whole treatment of the mass, the motet, the psalm and other ritual songs of the Catholic Liturgy, was henceforth wholly the product of the subjective inventiveness of the composer. The themes and motives were no longer taken from the Gregorian Chant. The importance of richly varied instrumental accompaniments, as well as the introduction of solo vocalists of great virtuality, were gradually made free use of by church composers. One could scarcely notice then the difference between the pieces that composed a mass and those that were heard in an opera. But for the words, it was indeed diffiult to make any distinction between the aria of an opera and that of a mass. By means of this radical change of the original forms of the mass, the relation which formerly existed between the intonations of the priest and the responses of the choir was entirely done away with. The distance which separates the form of the old Gregorian Chant from that of modern melody is too vast. The contrast between that noble but simple recitative, which found an adequate artistic response in the masses of the masters of the sixteenth and seven teenth centuries, and the musical treatment the mass has experienced at the hands of more modern composers is, in every way, a striking one, and not always to the advantage of the modern formal treatment.
At the present time the chaos that reigns within the domain of Church Music has arrived at such a pitch that if a healthy, purifying reaction against the profane, superficial practice current in many churches does not soon appear, the idea of true Church Music will have to be lamented as one of the lost arts. The sense of the necessity of a purification and thorough reorganization of the musical part of Church Music, based upon healthy traditional principles, has of late pressed into its service men of great knowledge and pure enthusiasm for art and art matters. The disparity of their aims and views with regard lo the inauguration of a beneficial reform in matters of Church Music, and in no small degree with the views of ordinary organists, and especially the want of efficient choirs, has, however, so far, prevented these men from penetrating into the right places. While one advocates the peremptory renovation of Palestrina’s style as the only true church style, another, though tolerating Palestrina to a certain degree, founds his ideas on Haydn’s, Mozart’s, and Cherubini’s efforts; this one declares the compositions a capdla of the masters of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries antiquated, and not in accordance with the wants and taste of our modern times. Some lay the gradual demoralization of Church Music to the introduction and use of purely instrumental
pieces; others, again, urge a speedy return to the simple form of the ancient Gregorian Chant as the sole remedy for the common evil. That in the midst of such different views and opinions the right solution of the great problem is not to be found, is a natural consequence. If we must have music in our churches, why not try to have the genuine article ? The possession of true proficiency in art is, however, gained only through careful and persevering cultivation. Efficiency is not attained by a merely superficial occupation, with the subject of art: it is the fruit of the devotion of a man’s whole life.	L.
The Elizabethan Era.
The Elizabethan era is so eminently and distinctly characterized as to claim a prominent position in the literary history of the world. In this period the English language had reached its highest perfection, and the study of ancient and foreign models furnished a vast store of literary forms. Therefore this age was characterized by an immense fertility and originality of thought, and by its highly diffused intellectual cultivation. First in point of time among those distinguished writers is George Gascoigne (1530-1577), who as a satirist enjoyed a high degree of popularity on account of his “Steel Glass.” George Tuberville (1530-1594), who employed various modes of versification, and whose writings chiefly consist in love epistles, epitaphs, and complimentary verses. A poet whose writings of a lofty tone exerted a great influence was Thomas Sackville (1536-1608), who at one time filled the office of Lord High Treasurer. He projected and commenced “ A mirror for Magistrates,” and although writers of great merit undertook the continuation of it there is a perceptible diminution of grandeur and effect. But the illustrious Edmund Spenser (1553-1599), who is acknowledged to be the greatest poet intervening between Chaucer and Shakespeare, is eminently the highest type of Romantic Poets. His first work of merit is. his “ Shepherd’s Calendar,” which was composed on a plan similar to Virgil’s Bucolics, and which placed him among the highest poetical names of bis day and attracted the patronage of the great. Through Sidney, and Dudley, Earl of Leicester, he was brought under the personal notice of Elizabeth. But the poet in his courtly career exposed himself to the hostility of the enemies of his protectors, and hence has left us a sorrowful picture of the miseries of courtly dependence.
On the nominal ion of Lord Grey de Wilton as Lieutenant of Ireland, Spenser accompanied him to that country as secretary. During his residence in Ireland he composed his principal works. He was obliged to leave that country on account of the action of the insurgents, who burned Kilcolman Castle, where he resided, and he was thus bereaved of a young child who perished in the flames. Overwhelmed by so deep an affliction, he returned to London; where he died in poverty, thus showing how transient is courtly favor. The people of his country, so sincere and unanimous was their admiration, had him buried with great pomp in Westminster Abbey, near the tomb of Chaucer-His greatest work, “ The Fairie Queene,” is a poem whose execution is somewhat similar to the productions of Ariosto and Tasso. It consists of twelve books, each describing the triumph of a virtue. The mythical Prince Arthur is the hero—a model of perfect virtue; having become enamored of the Fairie Queene, who appears to him in a dream, and having arrived at her court, he finds her hold
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
163
ing a solemn feudal festival during twelve days. At her court there is a beautiful lady for whose hand the twelve most distinguished knights are rivals; to settle their pretensions they undertake various adventures which furnish the materials for the poem. Spenser had not time to complete his extensive plan, and the first six only were completed; it is probable that the misfortunes amid which he closed his life prevented him from perfecting his design. The influence of his misfortunes on his works is perceptible in his last three books, which are inferior to the three first in vigor and splendor of expression. He has united three elements which appear as incompatible: the framework of the poem is taken from the chivalric legends; the ethical sentiment is taken from the elevated philosophy of Plato combined with the loftiest Christian purity; and the form and coloring of the language are “ saturated with the flowing grace and sensuous elegance of the great Italian poets of the Renaissance." The principal defects are its want of unity and its monotony of character. In exquisite harmony he has no superior in English verse. His richness of descriptioJ and an intensity that makes visible and tangible the objects represented constituted the power of his genius and secured for him the most brilliant name among the poets of his age.
Sir Philip Sidney (1554-1586), the friend of Spenser, was a poet of merit, and remarkable for a refined elegance which pervades his writings, especially his Sonnets. His prose writings, especially his “Arcadia,” are remarkable for their grace, animation, and elevating moral tone.
Samuel Daniel, Michael Drayton, Sir John Davies, J no. Donne, Joseph Hall, are poets, though not of the highest merit, yet whose writings are marked by a solid and scholarlike dignity. These were great writers, and had they lived in other times they would have been the most eminent writers of their day; but as it was, they were eclipsed by the brilliant productions of Spenser and Shakespeare, and thus “ darkened with the excess of light.”
One of the most extraordinary personages of this time was Sir Walter Raleigh (1552-1618), whose great talents and extensive literary accomplishments are admired by all. During his imprisonment he commenced a “ History of the World,” which comes down to the second Macedonian War.	.
Among the greatest theologians of the Anglican Church, Richard Hooker (1553-1598) occupies a prominent position, and his “Treatise on Ecclesiastical Polity” has placed him among the best prose writers of his age.
In the great revolution of philosophy, Francis Bacon (1561-1626), as the apos'le of the new philosophical faith, was a man of deep learning, and in whom were concentrated all the qualities requisite for the introduction of the new system. When we contemplate the vastness of the work which Bacon undertook, the difficulties which must have obstructed him for a time, we must acknowledge him to be the greatest of modern philosophers and one whose services in the cause of truth and knowledge have placed his name among the foremost benefactors of the human race. His “ Magna Instauratio ” consists of six books, of which the most important is the “ Novum Organum,” in which the principles of the inductive method are set forth and demonstrated. His weighty and vigorous style and his inimitable conciseness appear to greater advantage in his “ Essays.”
John Lyly, George Peel, Thomas Kyd, Thomas Nash, Robert Greene, and Christopher Marlowe are some of the
dramatic poets anterior to Shakespeare. Marlowe’s powerful genius would undoubtedly have secured him a prominent position among the poets of his day had he duly developed his genius, but his life of vice and debauchery prevented this.
Unquestionably the greatest poet of this era as well as of all time was the immortal Shakespeare (1564-1616). His early education was neglected, and, as Shaw says, “perhaps, too, the imperfection of his intellectual training was an advantage to his genius, in allowing his gigantic powers to develop themselves, untrammelled by the bonds of regular education.” He rendered useful services to the company with which he was connected in his double character of actor and arranger of pieces, of which we have examples in many of the plays attributed to him, but which would be unworthy of a dramatist of inferior genius. “ Othello,” “ Hamlet,” “Lear,” “Macbeth,” “Julius Caesar,” “Romeo and Juliet,” among his tragedies, and the “Tempest” and “Merchant of Venice” among his comedies, are the best of his plays. He is unequalled in the exhibition of human nature and human passion; no matter whether the play be founded on history or fiction, he always adheres with the strictest fidelity to general nature. In his manner of delineating passion and feeling, Shakespeare differs from other dramatic poets, for his characters are the men and women of real life. “The wonderful power of conceiving complex character is at the bottom of another distinguishing peculiarity of our great poet; namely, the total absence in his works of any tendency to self-reproduction.” Shaw, in speaking of his plays,says: “ The thoughts rise so fast under his pen, and successfully generate others with a portentous rapidity, that the reader requires al most as great an intellectual vivacity as the poet, in order to trace the leading idea through the labyrinth of subordinate illustration. His diction may be compared to some elaborate monument of the finest Gothic architecture, in which the superficial glance loses itself in an inextricable maze of sculptural detail and fantastically fretted ornamentation, but where a close examination shows that every pinnacle, every buttress, every moulding is an essential member of the construction. There is no poet, ancient or modern, from whose writings may be extracted such a number of profound yet practical observations applicable to the com. mon affiirs and interests of life. Every grade of folly, from the verge of idiocy to the most fantastic eccentricity, every shade of moral perturbation, from the jealous fury of Othello to the frenzy of Lear, or the not less touching madness of Ophelia, is represented in his plays with a fidelity so complete that the most experienced physiologists have affirmed that such intellectual disturbances may be studied in his pages with as much profit as in the actual patients of a mad-house.” In Shakespeare, the Elizabethan era, that prolific period of incomparable intellectual personages, culminates.	M. P.
A Catholic University.
A distinguished Catholic author, and Professor in one of the largest Ecclesiastical Seminaries in the United States, wrote the following letter to a friend who had mailed him a copy of the Scholastic. We have his permission to publish it:	.
“Rev. and Dear Friend : I have read very attentively
164	THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the Notbe Dame Scholastic which you were pleased to send me. Do you know what conclusion I came to—for the one hundred and tenth time—when I arose from its perusal? Startle not, esteemed friend! but here it is. We practically are the stupidest set of people on the face of the earth. Every one of those articles you have marked [“ The Catholic University, etc.,”] bear me out in my polite and kind assertion. For it cannot be but the result of arrant stupidity that such a set of men as we Catholics are should know so clearly and understand so practically what should be done, and yet are doing nothing at all, at all. Here in this very Seminary much could be done towards accomplishing what the Scholastic, the Quarterly Revieio and kindred papers show should be done, nay how it should be done, and yet nothing and 0; 0 and nothing!
“I wish I had strength and leisure to dilate on this subject—but cui bono? we are great at pointing the way, like the ministers whom the profane Yankee compared to finger-posts at the turn of country roads,—a post that points the road the traveller should take, but which itself never moves. It is exactly our position.
“When I consider these matters, and this state of things I wish I were a Trappist, that had no other business to attend to but theunum.”
On the same subject the Catholic Mirror, however, speaks in a more hopeful strain. It says: “The time has come for the Catholics of this country to found a national university—a capstone to their educational edifices, and a realization of the aspirations expressed by th'e Bishops of the Second Plenary Council of Baltimore. The feasibility of founding and maintaining a university is evident from the number of Catholics, their wealth, their willingness to establish and support such an institution, the possibility of obtaining competent teachers, the certain attendance of a crowd of students after a beginning shall have been made, and the almost certain attendance of a number of students at the beginning. The Catholics of the country number seven millions. Although the majority of them are poor, and as a body they are poorer than any other class of equal number, they possess considerable wealth. In all the large cities there are considerable numbers of Catholics possessing means. Besides these, there are the never-failing • classes of the well-to-do and the comparative^ poor, who are able to contribute their mite. Having the means, they have the will. The orphan asylums, the hospitals, the homes for the aged and the blind, the countless parish schools, the academies, the colleges, bear testimony to the charity of Catholics, to their will to promote the interests of the Church and the welfare of their children and of their unfortunate brethren. They have, therefore, the means and the will. ‘We ourselves,’ says Right Rev. Bishop Becker, in the American Catholic Quarterly Review, ‘know personally of several instances in which anxious inquiries have been made by Catholics, within a few years past, for just such an opportunity of bestowing their means during life, or posthumously; and we are fully assured that we have heard of but a minute fractional percentage of the similar cases that have occurred and are daily occurring throughout the country.’ To this may be added, that not long ago some wealthy gentlemen, Catholics and nonCatholics, offered to the Jesuit Fathers a large sum of money, if they would engage in this very enterprise. After serious deliberation, the offer was rejected, because the sum proposed was not considered sufficient to found a university on a fitting scale and a permanent basis. Let, then,
the first steps be taken towards making abeginning, and ample means will be forthcoming. ’
“The next requisite is the obtaining of competent professors, who must be possessed not of average ability, but thorough masters of the subjects they would be called upon to expound. Already in our colleges there are some educators qualified to fill the chairs in the proposed university. Others, not at present engaged in the work of teaching, but who are masters of particular branches of science and who would be willing to devote themselves to the great work, could be found in this country and in Europe. So that, on that score, no obstacle appears, for even should all the chairs not have as their first occupants the eminent men desired, the corporators having power to remove incompetent professors will in a short time give an example of ‘ the survival of the fittest’ by decapitating sciolists and replacing them with master-minds.
“ With means and men at hand, the next step will be to secure students. This step presents the greatest difficulty of all. For the number of parents sufficiently wealthy and willing to bear the expense of a university course for one, two, or three sons, is not large. And the majority of the young men themselves will not readily add three or four years to their pupilage. Those who will be able to enter the university will see other youths getting the start on them in the race of life, and settling down with a fair prospect of success. They will not at first consider that the race is not always to those who start first, nor that the additional years spent in preparation will not be time lost. But their unwillingness to pass through the university will soon vanish. The prestige which the graduates of the proposed institution will possess at the inception of their active career, the guarantee of worth that a degree will confer, the trust that will be placed in them, no matter what they may undertake, and the solid 2nd thorough knowledge they will be able to bring to bear upon their pursuits, will give them au assurance of victory over their less prepared competitors, will cause them to be imitated in their training, and fill the university halls with admiring successors. All the chief difficulties are at the beginning, for when once the university is started its success is certain. But who will make the beginning? Assuredly the Bishops of the country are the proper persons to break the ground. Right Reverend Bishop Becker, of Wilmington, has begun the agitation, and from the two articles that he has already written it is evident that he has given time and thought to the subject. He has already proposed a plan, demonstrated its feasibility, and made valuable suggestions. He may make further suggestions, such as the place where the university should be situated, which place we think should be at Washington, New York, or St. Louis. Now, let the other Bishops of the land^ unite .7ith him in settling the preliminaries, call upon the generous Catholics to found this noble, necessary, and beneficent seat of learning, and we shall soon see the Catholic National University not as an idea, but an established fact.”
Poetry After Cowper.
On comparing the poetry of the present century with that of the past, we find that there is not only a difference but also an essential difference between them. The chief characteristic of the poetry of the eighteenth century is its dependence on the ancient Greek and Latin models, wherefore it has been regarded as dull and of the fugitive kind.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	165
But the poetry of the nineteenth century is distinguished by its conformity with nature and truth, more especially by its spontaneous emanation. This is chiefly due to the contrast between the conservative and the revolutionary schools. They all came to the conclusion that poetry was becoming an affair so cold and lifeless in the extreme that an immediate change for the better devolved upon them in. awakening in themselves theoriginal powers of the human mind to the development of literary forms produced by true inspiration. It is a well-known fact that for more than half a century after the death of Alexander Pope he who in any way deviated from his standard was considered unworthy to be called a poet and only fit to figure in the “Dunciad.” But the artificial, mechanical and didactic school rendered intolerable by Pope’s successors ' was now opposed by what may be called the theory of the spontaneous. This theory then, as also originality, had Its rise at the very opening of the present century, whereby that so-called mode ofimitating, curtailing and constructing, so much practiced for so long before, was doomed to depreciation. Poetry is indeed the mode of expressing the thought and feeling of an excited or elevated imagination. Where can we find this better exemplified than in the productions of such noble mental faculties as those of Scott, Byron, Shelley, Keats, Wordsworth, etc. ? That “ the poet is born, not made,” is a true saying, for it is as absurd for a person whq: is not really a poet to pretend to write anything worthy of poetical genius, as if he were to try to construct or make some natural object, for instance a flower, which can alone be formed by nature’s hand; the result would be in either case the same, something lifeless and cold. It is obvious too, that whatever comes from the true poet is spontaneous; he cannot help expressing the ideas which are by nature in the mould of his own individual soul.
It would seem that such a theory as that already mentioned should have its effect in silencing the inferior class of poets; but such was not the case. They however under -went a remarkable change; for, beiug deluded by the present attempts at poetry, they despised the idea of construction and revision, and trusted solely to their rapid conceptions, mistaken for the spontaneity of genius. The productions of such writers were for the most part limited, and constituted only a few considerable poems which emanated from their congenial souls at their brightest moments; but the general result was a promiscuous heap of worthless trifles. The moralists no longer attempted to amuse the world by communicating their important information that would both please and at the same time instruct. It may be seen by what has been said that thenew theory had its advantages is well as its disadvantages. This remark can be especially applied to real genius. Socratism, so much aimed at by the poets of the eighteenth century, was totally despised by the advocates of the new school. To trace nature in all her forms, to commune with her and their own souls in quiet and solitude, was loved, and considered by them the source from which materials could alone be drawn and the fountain from which true inspiration could alone arise. The result was satisfactory. The productions were considered worthy of the beautiful thoughts and expressions in them contained. The “ Skylark ’’ of Shelley and the “ Hyperion ” of Keats may be regarded as reaching as high a perfection in regard to beauty of form as ever was attained by any poems. Yet the forms of the new school were by no means of the highest order; for the consent of many generations
has given the preference to the Epopee and the Drama and has unhesitatingly awarded them the palm of superiority. In neither of these was there anything of great moment achieved by the school in question, which may,of course be attributed to the new theory. It is evident that none of these extensive and complicated poems were ever without the use of the constructive faculty of the mind; even Shakespeare himself is known to have changed and reconstructed some of his plays, which goes after all to show that perfection arises not exactly from the spontaneous emanations of an elevated imagination; something more is required, and that something is the use of the constructive faculty.
The most eminent characters of the present century were Scott, Byron, Keats, Shelley, Wordsworth, Coleridge, Southey, Campbell, etc. Scott’s poetical works may be considered on the whole as possessing many noble qualities, and some have not hesitated to say that some of his productions surpass in many respects the works of Byron. This opinion arose from the fact that Scott bowed to nature, appealed to tradition, history and observation, which is manifest from his poems as well as his prose, especially from his famous “ Waverly.” Yet he had no hesitation in yielding the palm to his lordship on the publication of “Childe Harold,” “ The Bride of Abydos,” etc., saying that he had given up poetry because he deemed it prudent to give way before such a powerful and trauscendant genius. Byron was a voluminous writer, which goes far to make up for the many loose passages that his works contain. He was evidently the greatest poet of his day, and must ever rank with the first class of England’s noble poets. Perhaps he has been the only poet dying at so young an age that wrote so much remarkable for a high order of abilities and strength of passion. Keats, who gave evidence of a brilliant career by his grand and beautiful conceptions as well as by his intelligent and methodical mind, has left behind him a testimony to his genius in his famous production, “Hyperion.”
“ Oh! who so well could sing love’s joys and pains ?
He lived in melody, as if his veins
Poured music; from his lips came words of fire The voice of Greece, the tones Homer’s lyre.”
Shelley, possessed of a strong imagination and an exquisite sensibility, as manifested from his works, especially his minor poems, was what may be called the poet of fancy. He is generally known by his shorter pieces, as “The Cloud,” “The Sensitive Plant,” and “Skylark.”
Wordsworth was pre-eminently the poet of nature and originality, and a strict, adherer to conservative principles; he was also the most philosophical poet of his day. Nowhere can we find in the whole range of English literature works that are in such conformity to nature and truth, to social and religious life, as those of William Wordsworth He was indeed a child of nature—ever faithful, ever unassuming, ever using his talents to the best interests of mankind. His genius is especially characterized in his lesser poems, such as “ The Primrose of the Rock,” “ Solitary Reaper,” “Yarrow Revisited,” etc.
These are a few of the striking characters of the poets at the commencement of the present century. Concerning the rest it will suffice to say that they all display to great advantage the noble endowments of their respective souls. Nature, it is true, has endowed some men with more noble mental faculties than others. But each one may be considered to have acted his part well if he employ the talents which God has given him for the honor of God, to the best advantage of his neighbor and himself.	R.
166	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
“The Continental Cadets.”
Sixteen or seventeen years ago the “ Continental Cadets ” were an “institution ” at Notre Dame, which engrossed much attention. It was a military company, and as fine a company as could he found in the State of Indiana. It was organized in the spring of the year 1859, by W. F. Lynch. Lynch was an enthusiastic lover of military display and an energetic organizer of military companies. No sooner had he arrived at Notre Dame than he set about organizing a company among the students. He soon succeeded in interesting some seventy students in his plans, and a company was then formed. They adopted the old blue aud buff uniforms worn by Washington and the heroes of the Revolutionary war. The coat was of blue, with buff facing and braiding, and buttons of brass; the vest was buff and the necktie was white. The breeches were of blue cloth and came down to the knee, where they were fastened with brass buttons. The stockings of white reached to the knee, while the tops of the boots were ornamented with buff. The hat was three-cornered, ornamented with a red and white cockade. Altogether, the dress was very picturesque, beautiful and showy. They never failed to excite the admiration of all who witnessed their parades. From their dress they took the name of “ The Continental Cadets.” Very Rev. Father Sorin obtained arms for them from the Governor of the State.
The “Continental Cadets” were all Seniors. It was Lynch’s intention to form a company among the Juniors to be called the Washington Cadets, but though this company was organized and officered yet they never appeared in public.
Supposingthat two companies would be organized, Lynch had a major and some other staff officers elected. As the second company was not successful in all its organization, the staff officers were not re-elected the following year. Yet several good jokes have been told of these officers, two of which we wiljgiye.
Mr. ^^y^^wasfge major. One of his relatives, (we will call him George,) ‘doomed ” with him—a youngster who did not have in him all the reverence which he should have had for his older relation. Soon after the swords and uniforms arrived, George, to the great amusement of all the little fellows in the yard, related how D-got up earlier than usual; how, supposing George to be asleep, he donned the full suit; how he stood .before the mirror in the room, and with great gravity went through, very awkwardly, many of the sword exercises. Now he was leading a charge against the enemy; then he was warding off a blow. Again he was plunging his sword into the heart of one of his foes. All the motions, to our great delight, George went through. Perhaps he added a little to them—but it was a great thing for us youngsters to repeat them for—not the edification of Major---------------------------------.
The “Major” was very proud of his military suit—and walked with all the dignity it behooveth a Major to walk. I remember the first excursion the company made was to Mishawaka. The “ Major ” was all in his glory; the writer, wishing to compliment him, hinted in rather a broad way that the “Major” was a perfect image of Gen. Scott. “ Oh no! no!” said the “Major,” with truly becoming modesty, yet, perfectly convinced that the writer had no idea whatever of humbugging him. “Indeed ” said Charlie Healy, a gallant cadet, “ to me he seems to resemble Gen. Taylor.” This was another compliment to the “Major,” which he
acknowledged with bows and smiles. The crowd, seeing how easily he swallowed the compliments, walked up to him and in the space of one hour had him looking like Gen. Jackson, the Duke of Wellington, Napoleon Bonaparte, Gen. Blucher, Alexander the Great,—and nearly every General that ever lived. The good old “ Major” believed them • all.
The company made at different times trips to South Bend, Mishawaka, Laporte, Elkhart and Niles. Lynch was very anxious to have the members go to Chicago, but Commencement-Day coming on, he could not persuade them to remain here after it had passed, and the trip to Chicago was abandoned.
One day the company went over to Laporte. Just before coming home, one of the citizens insisted on treating “ the boys.” Now it was a rule that no member should, under pain of expulsion, enter, while wearing the uniform, any saloon. So the gentleman had to be satisfied with treating to the cigars. He was somewhat “ mellow ” himself, not having any rule to restrain him from imbibing just as much as he pleased; after the treat, he expressed his desire to address the “soldiers,”and he did so in this style:—“Ladies and Gentleman, hie! you see before you, hie! the men who fought, hie! bled and died on Bunker Hill—” He was here interrupted by his friends, who insisted that his wife wished to see him at home. We laughed over our dying, all the way back to Notre Dame.
The company broke up at the commencement of the rebellion—most of the members enlisting in the army.
Prof. Howard, once a student at the College, was a member of the “ Cadets.” He afterwards enlisted in a Michigan regiment, was wounded and received an honorable discharge. Captain Lynch served with honor in the Union ranks, and was brevelted Brigadier General at the close of the war. Captain Healy entered the ranks, and was also brevetted Brigadier General during the war. “Josh” Lonergan was killed'on the battle field. Besides these, ' many other members of the “ Cadets” enlisted in the cause of the flag—too many for us to name here on the spur of the moment; many were laid in Southern graves, many were crippled—and many returned to their homes to take upon themselves positions of honor and trust in the civil service. We know that all of the old members recollec-with pleasure the days they passed shouldering a musket in their younger days.	. A.
Art, Music and Literature.
—A great “ Cyclopaedia of Insurance,” to fill six volumes in octavo, is in the London press of Messrs. Layton.
—The latest production of Paul Heyse, the German novelist, is a drama, the publication of which is awaited with great interest.
—Freiligrath’s German translation of Coleridge’s “ Ancient Mariner” is to be published in Leipsic this month with 40 illustrations by Dore.
—It is stated that Offenbach’s next opera will be founded on Jules Verne’s tale, “ Dr. Ox’s Experiment.” The principal part is to be played by Madame Judie.
—Mme. Jenny Lind Goldschmidt has earned 40,000 crowns for the Stockholm Academy of Liberal Arts, which is to be applied for the benefit of needy students. •
—Berthold Auerbach aims, in his hew series of tables just published, to give a correct representation of the German village life in railway times, as in a former series he illustrated that of an earlier age.
—The literary works of Robert Schumann, translated by
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	IpT

Fanny Raymond RiUer,—who has done so much service of this sort to musical literature,—are soon to be published simultaneously in England and America.
—Offenbach’s “ Voyage en Amerique,” with a preface by Albert Wolff, the musical critic of Le Figaro, has been completed. It has, says Parisian rumor, been purchased by a foreign (query, American ?) paper which will publish it' as as a feuilleton.
—The Princess Liechtenstein, authoress of “Holland House,” has in preparation a novel entitled “Nora,” taken from the German. It may be described as preluding an entirely original work by the same authoress. 'The publishers will be Messrs. Burns & Oates.
—Ditson & Co. have in press, and will soon issue, “Biographical sketches ot eminent musical composers, arranged in chronological order,” by Madame L. R. Urbino, including sketches of Alendelssohn, Beethoven,Mozart, Handel, Bach, Haydn, and all other musical celebrities.
—Gounod has promised to M. Carvalho the score of “ Georges Dandin.” It is, properly speaking, a musical sketch in two acts, in which the greater part of Moliere’s dialogue has been retained, as in the case of the “ Medecin Malgrelui,” adapted by the same composer.
—The new work on “Historic Chateaux,” by Mr.-Bailie Cochrane, M. P., which Messrs. Hurst & Blackett announce, will contain descriptions of Blois, Fontainebleau, and Vincennes, among other places. The title of Mwss Craik’s novel, which the same firm promise, is “Anne Warwick.”
—Extract from a romantic novel of the 'time of Henry IV. The king, who has wandered from his army, has found refuge over night in a little mountain inn. “ ‘ Vive Henry Qjuitre!' cried the host as he saw his guest disappear up the mountain side, and he clinked joyously together the five Napoleons that the king had at parting slipped into his hand.”
—According to official statistics, 5,206 books were issued in Russia during the years 1873 and 1874. Of these 679 were theological, 322 legal, 113 agricultural, 247 historical, 247 geographical and ethnographical, 195 mathematical, 135 military, 34 scientific, 244 medical, 438 philological, 94 artistic, while 1,851 treated of lighter literature, and 447 were translations of foreign helles lettres.
—Verdi’s personal appearance is that of a vigorous middle-aged man, who is in the prime of life. He has regular features, dark-blue- eyes full of spirit and fire, abundant hair just turning gray, a face without a wrinkle, and a nervous well-knit figure made to support activity without fatigue. He is gentle-tempered and courteous to musicians, and the orchestra under his inspiration narrate many pleasant anecdotes of his urbanity and goodness.
—Neither Erckmann nor Chatrian was an Alsatian, although they have together created an Alsatian literature. They were both born in Lorraine. Edmond About says that the method of their curious literary partnership is for both to elaborate the plan, and then for Erckmann to write the book and for Chatrian to correct it or put it in the fire. A certain feuilleton destined for the XIXme Siede is now being written for the third time in thfe manner.
—Mr. Stevenson, who has been for some time examining the archives of the Vatican on behalf of Record Office, has sent in his resignation. Many of the documents to which the liberality of the Pope and his advisers gave Mr. Stevenson access, and of which he has sent home copies, have proved of much interest to English Roman Catholics, several of whom have visited Fetter Lane to study them, and have also proved of use to Protestant historians.
—The London literary journals are looking forward to the publication of an essay “ On Anonvmous Criticisms,” written by an author who, according to The Examiner, is evidently determined not to submit quietly to the attacks of his reviewers, but who appears desirous of opening up the whole question of the responsibility of the reviewer to the public and the reviewed. The author, we are told, is somewhat bold in his assertions, and his line of argument is likely to cause some stir among reviewers.
—Von Billow has been staying in Hanover, at the house of Hans von Bronfort, the manager of the Royal Theatre in that city. He received a slight shock of paralysis while in London, which deprived him for a time of the use of
his right hand, and he went to his friend’s house to recuperate. There is no foundation for the reports' that his mind is affected. Liszt visited him in Hanover, and says that Von Bulow, though taken down with paralysis, is nevertheless much more in his senses than any other pianist.
—The third series of Father Morris’ Troubles of our Forefathers is passing through the press. It relates exclusively to the persecutions of Catholics in the north of England, and is compiled from MSS. preserved at Stonyhurst, Oscott, and in private hands. These narratives, from Catholic sources, are largely illustrated from official records, and especially from the hitherto unransacked “Housebooks” of the city of York. This volume will, it is said, throw as much fresh light on the history of the reign of Elizabeth as any of those which have preceded it.
—Lord Houghton gets criticisms from The Examiner. It says of his poems: “ They are all far too much the carefully-executed works of a cultivated English gentleman,— Lord Houghton is of course, highly cultivated, in some things perhaps hyper-cultivated,—are all too much the ‘Lines to a Lady of Quality’ kind of thing. The suggestion of culture is kept too palpably prominent—it lurks in allusion, it peeps up perpetually from foot-notes. Apart from this, many of the poems convey little or no impression of any sort.” Edmond About calls Lord Houghton a philosopher of the eighteenth century who through some lucky caprice of fate has strayed into the nineteenth.
Books and Periodicals.
—The contents of the GcecHia for November are: St. Ctecilia; Principles for Church-Music Schools; Ad-dresses Delivered at the Baltimore Convention by Father Wapelhorst, Rector of the Ecclesiastical Seminary at St. Francis’ Station, Wis., and by Rev. Th. Bruener, Rector of the Teachers’ Seminary at the same place; together with notices of the press, correspondence, etc. The music consists of a continuation of the services of Vesper hymns, by Prof. J. Singenberger.
—If you ever come up for a high office you must expect to encounter the charge that you stole wood. Therefore lay in your supply while these heavenly nights last
—Carlyle is now very feeble through age, but his memory is still marvellous, and the flow of his talk—doubtless the most eloquent of the age—is unabated. Take this as a sample:
“ I have known three generations of the Darwins, grandfather, father, and son; atheist all. The brother of the present famous naturalist, a quiet man, who lives not far from here, told me that among his grandfather’s effects he found a seal engraven with this legend: l0mnir exconchis,' Everything from a clam shell! I saw the naturalist not many monthsago; told him that I had read his‘Origin of the Species ’ and other books; that he had by no means satisfied me that men were descended from monkeys, but had gone far towards persuading me that he and his so-called scientific brethren had brought the present generation of Englishmen very near to monkeys.
“ A good sort of a man is this Darwin, and well-meaning, but with very little intellect. Ah, it’s a sad and terrible thing to see nigh a whole generation of men and women professing to be cultivated, looking around in a purblind foshion, and finding no God in this universe. I suppose it is a reaction from the reign of cant and hollow pretense, professing to believe what in fact they do not believe. And this is what we have got to do. All things from frog spawn; the gospel of dirt the order of the day. The older I grow—and I now stand upon the brink of eternity —the more comes back to me the sentence in the catechism, which I learned when a child, and fuller and the deeper its meaning becomes: ‘ What is the chief end of man?’ ‘To glorify God and to enjoy Him forever.’ No gospel of dirt teaching that men have descended from frogs through monkeys can ever set that aside.”—Hartford Gourant.
168	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, November IS, 1S76.
Single Copies of THE SCHOLASTIC may now be procured at the Student’s Office, at Five Cents per copy.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, T’ostpaid..
Address Editor'Notre Dame Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind.
Where Shall we Look for the Great Men of the Future?
It is said of the popular literature of the present day, and the fact cannot be denied, that it has the effect to enervate and enfeeble the mental powers, to blunt and vitiate the moral perceptions, in short, to enslave the whole nature, by undermining every noble and pure principle implanted therein. Notwithstanding this fact, how eagerly and indiscriminately does the so-called reading public devour this literature ? The sound literary merit of a work is the last question thought of, the result of its perusal upon the character of the reader being a matter not deemed worthy of consideration.
Many a parent who would smile at the advice to be cautious in the choice of books to be placed in the hands of his child, would prefer to see him in his coffin rather than to expose him to habits of falsehood, dishonesty, etc., and yet there are unmistakable proofs that a passion for light reading is scarcely less disgraceful or injurious than the vices cited above; indeed this passion, once in the ascendency, is the fruitful source of almost every other vice.
A sound mind must be accustomed to sound, vigorous and healthful reflection, just as the strength of the muscular system must be maintained by regular aud healthful exercise: but in light literature what is there to promote vigorous mental exertion ? The best that can be said of the more respectable works of this class is that they afford relaxation to the mind when overtaxed.
If the portrayal of selfish and evil passions, mingled with insignificant gossip, and specious immorality, the insidious poison of unchristian and false principles, promotes a good result, then is our popular literature falsely accused, and we may look for Newtons, Humboldts, Herschels and Au-dubons to arise from the swollen ranks of our modern novel-readers; but if, on the contrary, familiarity with evil imagery destroys the moral vigor, and weakens mental force, have we not everything to fear for those young men who experience no pleasure in reading books of a more elevated stamp ?
Light reading does not exercise the mind. It only entertains the imagination, and through this channel stimulates the passions: or if not so bad as that, it diverts the attention from more worthy pursuits. The effect is similar to that of the gossiping disposition so deplorably universal, and so destructive to 'the peace of society and of families. Indeed a passion for light reading and a love for slander and detraction generally accompany each other.
Show me a lover of scientific works, and those published for the purpose of ennobling the mind and the heart, one
who has a care for some reading above the current news of the day and the last new story, and I will show you one whose conscience will not permit him to be entertained by the tongue of the slanderer and the detractor. Show me a confirmed novel-reader, and I will show you one who avoids the society of the learned and the thoughtful, and who seeks that of the trifling and the vicious.
We have, it is true, much pretty writing which has even won for the authors great celebrity, but which, if dissected, proves that if there was a purpose on the part of the writer, that it was not designed to strengthen the moral powers.
To sum up the charge against popular literature, it inculcates the indulgence of sensuality, and deifies evil passions; hence selfishness, wilfulness, disobedience and irreverence, with all the countless vices that follow in their train, are more prevalent than ever before.
It is the happy prerogative of youth to decide his own future, by forming his own habits. Happy those who have escaped the passion for ligh treading; for it is from the ranks of this class of vigorous-minded, whole-souled, whole-hearted young men that we must look for the great men of the»future.
St. Bernard’s, Watertown, Wis.
As the majority of the readers of the Scholastic are personal friends of the Bev. Father Corby, formerly President of Notre Dame, and at present pastor of St. Bernard’s Church, Watertown, we have no scruple in giving an ex-dended notice of the dedication of hisbeautiful new church. And in connection with an account of this ceremony it may not be out of place here to trace the origin of church dedications. The first writer who speaks of the ceremonies of the Church which relate to the dedication of her temples, is Eusebus, the historian, who says that it is a beautiful and consoling spectacle to see the solemn dedication of the Christian churches and oratories which spring up from the earth as if by enchantment. And this sight, he continues, is so much the more imposing and august that it is everywhere graced by the presence of all the Bishops of a province.
But although we cannot give anything positive as to the dedication of churches during the first three centuries of the Christian era, yet it is fair to presume that the early Christians celebrated the divine mysteries in buildings blessed and dedicated to God by prayers and sacred rite. The learned Cardinal Bona, a great authority on all questions of the kind, is of opinion that this dedication of edifices to God has come down to us from the times of the Apostles themselves. However, certain authors attribute this sacred institution to St. Evaristus, who was chosen Pope of Rome in the year of our Lord 96. It is certain that during the first three centuries, until the reign of Constantine, no great pomp and display were given to this ceremony; and indeed it seems impossible that they could be given; for, during those ages, the Church was afflicted with persecutions, and the faithful were necessitated to attend to their religious duties, as it were, by stealth. It seems improbable that in such a matter as the dedication of houses of worship the Church should not adopt the custom of the Jews. If the Temple of Jerusalem, which was nothing more than the figure, was worthy of solemn consecration, how much more would not the temples of the Living God be worthy of the same after all the figures of the Old Law were fulfilled? We have, besides, the word of Eusebius, that the Councils of Jerusalem aud of
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
169
Antioch were held on the occasion of the consecration of the churches in those cities by Constantine. And the Basilica of Tyre, which was erected on the ruins of a former basilica, was consecrated in 315, on which occasion Eusebius of Cesarea preached the consecration homily to an innumerable number of the faithful. The Basilica of St. John Lateran was erected two years before that of Tyre, but was not consecrated until afterwards.
We have the inscription, also, which shows that Pope Damasus, chosen A. D. 366, dedicated a church in the Holy City; the inscription is in these words : “ Titulus in Christi nomine. Eyo Damasus urbis Romes episcopus hanc domum consecraoi.”
It is not known, precisely, what the form of the rite of consecration in the early ages was, as it has not been handed down to us as the canon of the Mass has been, but we know that it was a religious act accompanied with many rites. St. Gregory of Tours, speaking of the consecration of an oratory of St. Euphronius, says: “Having taken the holy relics, we carry them into the oratory with the cross and a great number of lighted wax tapers, accompanied by a great number of priests, deacons, etc., in albs, of the most distinguished persons of the city, and a crowd of people who follow us.” That is what we do now in our own times when performing a like ceremony.
From what we have said it can be seen that the Church has from a very early period, if not from the times of St. Peter, dedicated her places of worship of God by prayer and by display of pomp and sacred rites.
And surely there was no lack of display in Watertown on Sunday, November 12th, when the new Church of St. Bernard.was dedicated by Most Rev. Archbishop Henni, of Milwaukee. All the Catholic societies turned out in regalia, and were joined by several from Milwaukee. Headed by bands of music, and carrying many banners, they formed a procession larger than any of the kind ever seen in Watertown. The number of people inside and out of the church has been variously estimated at from two to five thousand souls, the great majority of them being Catholics.
The ceremony of dedication began at half-past ten o’clock and was performed by Most Rev. Archbishop Henni, assisted by some fifteen priests. This over, solemn Pontifical High Mass was sung by Bishop Heiss, of Lacrosse, the Archbishop assisting in cope and mitre. The deacons of the Archbishop were Rev. James Keogh of Milwaukee, and Rev. J. A. O’Connell, of Notre Dame. The chaplain to Bishop Krautbauer, of Green Bay, who was also present, was Rev. P. J. Golovin, President of Notre Dame. The officiating Bishop was attended as follows: Assistant Priest, Rev.P. W. Condon, President of the College at Watertown; Deacon, Rev. F. Etchman, of St. Henry’s, Watertown; and subdeacon, Rev. P. Franciscus, of the College at Watertown. The ceremonies were very imposing, and were carried out with great faithfulness to the rubrics of the Church. Among the clergy present in the sanctuary were Very Rev. C. Wapelhorst, Rector of the Seminary of St. Francis de Sales; Rev. W. Corby, Watertown; Rev. M. J. Ward, Rev. M. J. Joerger, D. D., Rev. E. McGuirk, Rev. W. O’Mahony, and others whose names we did not learn. Rev. Father Bigelow was Master of Ceremonies, with Messrs. Carroll and Akers as assistants.
The sermon was preached by Rev. Father Garesche, S. J., whose fame as a pulpit-orator is so well known through the West. His effort on this occasion was in keeping with his reputation, and we are only sorry that we are unable to
give in outline the substance of his glowing and eloquent discourse. In the evening the sermon was preached by Rev. W. O’Mahony, who was even more eloquent than when here at Notre Dame.	.
Rev. Father Corby has every reason to feel proud of his new church, one of the finest in Wisconsin. It is so well proportioned, so commodious and conveniently arranged that it has justly been called a gem. We gave, several weeks ago, a description of the buiding, and consequently we need not describe it here in detail. We will say, however, that the architect, Mr. Keeley, has every reason to take pride in his work; the contractors have the same reason to feel proud; and Father Corby justly rejoices because he has a beautiful church and it is out of debt.
Personal.
—	Thos. H. Grier, B. S., of ’75, is doing business at Geneva Lake, Wis.	'
—	Robert Tillman (Commercial, of ’66) is married and prospering in St. Louis, Mo.
—	Rev. Father Paul Gillen visited us on the 15th. He is in the best of health and spirits.	‘
—	Mr. George Orsinger, of La Salle, Ill., spent last Sunday at the College, visiting his son.
—	Vincent Hackman (Commercial, of ’71) is book-keeper for the firm of Spaunhorst & Hackman, St. Louis, Mo.
—	The health of Very Rev. Father Sorin is greatly improved, and he expects to be able to walk about shortly.
—	J. M. Ridiehuber, the gentlemanly agent of the J. W. Butler Paper Co., of Chicago, called in to see us on the 15th.
—	E. Blaine Walker (Commercial, of ’69) is living at Helena, Montana Territory. He is in the mining business.
—	J. W. Montgomery (Commercial, of ’69) is in the employ of the Ohio and Mississippi Railway, at Montgomery, Ind.
—	Rev. Father Sacques, of Quebec, Rev. F. Cote, of Chicago, and Rev. F. Paradis, of Kankakee, Ill., were here on the 10th.
—	Rev. E. B. Kilroy, A. B., of ’49, has lately returned from Europe and has again taken charge of his parish at Stratford, Ont.
—	Rev. Fathers Cooney and Peter Lauth, who have been preaching a retreat at Flint, Mich., arrived at Notre Dame on the 15th.
—	Warren C. Kain (Commercial, of ’67) is a member of the firm of Kain & James, Booksellers and Stationers, Vicksburgh, Miss.
—	Mrs. McKernan of Indianapolis, and Mrs. Hastings of Leavenworth, Kansas, were visiting their sons at Notre Dame on the 15th.
—	Rev. A. B. Oechtering, of Mishawaka, was here last week. Last Sunday his guest was Rt. Rev. Dr. Dwenger, Bishop of Fort Wayne.
—	William Campbell (Commercial, of ’72), is practicing law in Philadelphia, Pa. He read under John L. Shoemaker, No. 611 Vine street.
—Albert Heizman (Commercial, of ’65) is a dealer in sheet music, musical instruments, etc., in Reading, Pa. He is in partnership with his brother.
—Charles Forestal (Commercial, of ’70), is in the wholesale paper business at No. 22, South 5th street, Philadelphia. His establishment is one of the largest of the kind in Philadelphia.
—Rev. A. A. Brown, of the Missionary Society of St. Paul the Apostle, and well known at Norte Dame, preached the panegyric of the late Cardinal Antonelli at the Requiem Mass chanted at the Paulists’ Church in New York on the 13th.
—Among the visitors to Notre Dame during the week past were Messrs. Louis Seivers, B. H. Bean, and Wm. B. Rogers, of Chicago; Mrs. E. H. Norton, of Genesee, N> Y.,
170
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
L. M. Cold rid ge. Warwick, N. Y.; P. M. Nickles. Toronto, Ontario; C. Gaffney and M. Scanlon of Detroit, Mich.; and A. Fischel, Milwaukee, Wis.
Iiocal Items.
—“Look out for your dictionaries.”
—Some of the boys seem mew-sically inclined.
—Winter is now on hand, so prepare your skates.
—Winter came in with a raging snow-storm last Monday.
—Foot-ball still rules supreme in the Junior Department.
—The Minims are now forced to put away their velocipedes.
—The bars are up, thanks to the carpenter and the Scholastic.
—The Band rehearsals are to take place on Wednesdays, at 9 o’clock, a. m.
—There is any amount of work going on at the shoe-shop, and good work it is.
—Thp President and the Director of Studies have been visiting various classes.
—Our .Rt. Rev. Bishop, Mgr. D wenger, is expected at Notre Dame in December.
—Nothing new is to be said with regard to the classes Everything goes along as usual.
—We understand that the Literary Entertainment promised by the Philbdemics is “off.”
—The ammusement clubs are now fully organized, and the boys are enjoying themselves.
—The Band was out serenading last week. The members are making great improvement.
—In the Junior refectory the readers are engaged on Dom Gueranger’s “Life of St. Cecilia.”
—There is some talk of the Columbians giving a Literary Entertainment in January or thereabouts.
—Quite a snow fort was erected by some of the younger portion of the Juniors on Wednesday last.
—Hand-ball, now that the snow has driven most of the students into the halls, is extensively played.
—Prof. Lyons’ Elocution Class is making great progress, as will be demonstrated at the next Exhibition.
—Every old student should make it a point to procure as many subscribers to the Scholastic as possible. -
—Rev. Father Zahm will lecture next Thursday, the 23d inst. Subject—“Magnetism and Electro-Magnetism.”
—It is very interesting to see the young men hard at work in the upstairs study-hall on Wednesday mornings.
—They began putting up the double windows on Wednesday last. Now according to S’s theory we should have a warm season.
—The youth who insisted on taking the inflated rubber from the toe of his friend’s boot, little expected to receive the same in the eye.
—There have been a few more photographic groups of ancient St. Cecilians framed and hung in the St. Cecilian room. No. 4 can’t be beat.	.
—The plank walks are convenient now that the rainy, and consequently muddy, days are coming on. They were very serviceable the past week.
—We expect shortly to have a couple of columns filled with the business cards of the old students, similar to those in this issue of the Scholastic.
—The St Cecilians, so we are told, will not produce “ The Broken Sword” until about the first of December. The parts will be given out the coming week.
—Our neighbor the “Ace Maria" has a circulation in many foreign countries. Only the other day two subscriptions from the island of Ceylon were received.
—The painting of the ceilings of the transepts of the new church is now about to begin. The work will be similar to that on the ceiling of the main part of the church.
,	—The last baseball game of the season was played on the
10th, between the Juanitas and the Star of the East, for a barrel of russets. The Juanitas won by a score of 10 to 16.
—The boys are under obligations to H. Canoll for the : grand foot-bill which he allowed to be used in the late ex-j citing games played by the members of the Junior department.
—The St Cecilians and the Philopatrians make their halls echo and re-echo with their eloquence. By the way, the St. Cecilians have not yet let us take a look at the first number of the Standard.
—The 6th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopa-trian Society was held Nov. 9th. The following declaimed: Masters Cougar, Fox, Taulby, Keenan, Inguerson, Donnelly, Pleins and Anderson.	•
—A. tablet on which will be inscribed the names of all the old members of the Sp. Aloysius Literary Society is to be placed in the room of the society. The names of the honorary members will also be inscribed.
—Someone has taken away a copy of the “ Raccolta ” and “ Illustrated Catholic Almanac” from the Ave Maria proof-reader’s office. It is to be hoped that the party taking them will return them without delay.
—On the 12th inst., the match game between the Star of the East and Juanita B. B. Clubs for a barrel of apples resulted in favor of the Juanitas by a score of 16 to 10. Mr. Win. Meyers and Bro: Paul, C. S. C., acted as umpires.
—We-understanfllhat a Solemn Requiem Mass will be sung, some time next week, for the repose of the soul of the late Cardinal Antonelli, whose death occurred a few days ago. Very Rev. Father General would be celebrant, but his health will not permit it.
—There is to be shortly a new time-table on the L. S. & M. S. RR. We hope the managers will put on the old three-o’clock afternoon train, or if they can’t do this couldn’t they put on a western bound train leaving South Bend at nine or ten o’clock in the evening.
—The bath-rooms in the steam-house building are well patronized. By the regulations of the house, every one must bathe once every two weeks. It may be that when the remainder of the bath-rooms are finished everyone will be enabled to go at least once a week.
.—We notice that B. Columkille is actively engaged in fitting up the new College chapel. This chapel will be a great convenience, as the old chapel was too small to accommodate the students attending from the three departments. It will be ready for use in a week or two.
—There are some very good readers occupying the pulpit in the Junior refectory. We would like to give the names of three or four of the best readers, and probably will do so in a few weeks; so let everyone of them do his best. Look out for your pronunciation, your voice, and everything else.
—We learn that parties have been sent to Philadelphia to superintend the packing of the new altar, which has been on exhibition at the Centennial. We may, then, expect to see it here in the course of the coming two weeks. The statue on exhibition there will be brought here at the same time.	,
—Messrs. Foster and Marsh of South Bend will give up their lecture course, but the concert by the Philharmonics will be given under their auspices. This concert will take place on Friday of next week. All who last winter listened to the music given by the Philharmonic Club will be only too anxious to attend the concert. • '
—The person in charge of the lamps (which, by the way, are by no means small in number) having vacated the several small rooms in the steam-house temporarily occupied by him, and taken possession of the building specially erected for his use, the additional bath-rooms can now be fitted up, which will, no doubt, be done shortly.
—We trust that the managers of the lecture course, of the musical soiree, and of the literary as well as the dramatic entertainments, will make it a point to have their notices, programmes, etc., appear in the Scholastic on the Saturday preceding the evening on which the entertainment is to take place. It is a great convenience not only to our-

!
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
171
t
i
I
selves but to our readers here at Notre Dame and South Bend, and even in other places.
—An anxious crowd is almost dying to know positively whether it is realty a wild duck on the lake that the three nimrods have been hunting without success on divers occasions. Rumor has it that the duck in question is realty a tame one which has strayed from its yard into the lake. It is also whispered that it is not a duck at all, but a goose. At all events the hunters have all been on wild goose chases, one of which was bad in its results to one of the hunters.
—The regular 7th meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association took place Nov. 11th. The debate was: “Which was the greater man, Washington or Napoleon ? ” Masters Burger, Healey, Clarke, Hayes, and W. Hake spoke on the affirmative; while the negative was sustained by Masters M. Kauffman, W. Widdecombe, J. Hagerty, and R. Mayer. The affirmative won the day, Master Burger making the best speech. Declamations were delivered by 0. Lindberg, W. J. Davis, R J. Golsen, W. Ohlman, C. Hagan, J. Hagerty, and W. Sheehan. G. Cassidy was elected a member.
—The Archonfraternity of the Immaculate Conception held its 3rd regular meeting Sunday evening, Nov. 5th. Very • Rev. F. Granger, the Director, was present. He spoke at some length on devotion to the Blessed Virgin, and distributed among the members-a number of books, pamphlets, and medals. He then made a few remarks with reference to the society. At this meeting Messrs. C. Or-singer, A. Widdecombe, F. Carroll, W. H ike, J. Nelson, J. Knight, G Sampson, C. Roos, F. Rheinboldt, G. Cassidy, J. Carrer, F. Wagner, J. Fox and R. White were elected members of the Association.
—One of our coin collectors was lately presented with a copper piece, bearing the date 1792, which was found under the pavement of a street in Paris. On one side is an embossed impression representing a statue of the goddess of Liberty in the Champs de Mars, surrounded by members of the National Guard and deputies from the department of France, with outstretched arms, taking the oath to the Constitution. Above the picture are the words, Pacts Faderati; below is the date, July 14th, 1790. Around it is the legend, Vivre Libres ou Mourir. On the reverse is the following inscription: “Medaille de Confiance de Cinq Sols Remboursable en Assignats de 50 et an-Dessus. L’an IV. de la Liberte.”
—The Choral Union, we understand, are going to produce “ The Picnic ” by J. R. Thomas, at the next musical soiree. This pretty little Cantata was produced some four years ago with great success by the vocal class under Prof. Corby, and we hope the Union will do as well this year .as the vocal class then did. The rehearsals have already begun, and we trust that all the members will take the greatest interest in practicing the various solos, duets, choruses, etc. Without great interest is manifested in the rehearsals, nothing can be produced to advantage. When the performers are lukewarm, a failure will be the only result. Let regularity and zeal, then, characterize the rehearsals, that success may crown the work.
—The manager of the Scholastic was among the number from Notre Dame who went to see the dedication of St. Bernard’s Church, Watertown, Wis. That he enjoyed himself while there is a matter of course, for who would not enjoy himself in such company as he finds both at the Presbytery and at the College there. Fathers Corby, O’Mahony, Condon and Franciscus, Messrs. Carroll and Akers, and Bros. Marcellinus, Aloysius, Bruno, Norbert and Stephen, and Bro. Gabriel who came up from Milwaukee, are all in the best of health. Among the old students met while there, were Messrs. Baasen of Milwaukee, Hogan of Chicago, Maloney, of Harvard, Ill., Shannahan of Wa tertown, and Corby of Chicago, all of whom had a good word for the old place.
—The Director of the Association of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary has for some time past had a great demand for tickets of admission. This Society, which was estab-liehed at Notre Dame about a year ago, has been approved by the Pope and has branches in many cities in the United States and Canada. The objects of the Society are to pray for the deliverance of the Holy Father, and for the conversion of America, and to supply olive oil for the churches where local branch societies are formed. In this
way it is hoped that the pastors of the thousands of Catholic churches in the United States and Canada may in time be supplied with pure olive oil, the donation of the young children living in the various parishes. The pastors can easily see how much good might in this way be accomplished by the children of their respective congregations.
—What with the various amusement clubs, the societies, musical, literary and dramitic, opportunities for playing handball and racket, and the many other means of enjoying themselves during the winter, no one should complain of its being dull. We often hear people complain of students . occupying their leisure hours with games and societies, but surety complaints of this kind are not reasonable. “All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.” So long as the various amusements do not trespass on the time allotted to study and class, it is no waste of time to give it to innocent recreation. There is scarcely a student who loses any study time in preparing for his society. The entertainments given through the year, and which do more to cheer up and brighten the boys than anything else, do not infringe on a great deal of study time, and all taking part in them attend their classes regularly. As a rule those who take part in these entertainments are among, those who recite the best in class.
—One of the most difficult things for the manager of this paper is to obtain a knowledge of the whereabouts, business occupation, etc., of the old students. He is forced to enquireof everyone he meets who is likely to know anything of them, often without much success. We desire in order that the personal column mav be as full and interesting as possible that our friends would send us the names, occupation, etc., of all whom they know. Where the old student lives in a large city like Chicago, Cincinnati, St. Louis, etc., we would be only too well pleased to have the number and street either of his residence or place of business. There are members of the Alumni whom, having changed their residence, it is impossible to reach. It would not be amiss if every old student would, when changing his residence or place of business, inform us of the fact. It frequently happens that old students write to us for the post-office address of those who went to College with them and we are unable to furnish them the desired information. This could be remedied were all to give us their addresses and notify us whenever a change is made
—Many of our college exchanges complain that they do not receive the support—especially from the old students of the institutions where the papers are published—which they deserve. It is argued that it is the duty of the former students to sustain the paper. We do not go so far as that, but we think it is right that the former student should, by his subscription, help to sustain the paper representing the students of his alma mater. The Scholastic numbers among its subscribers many of the old students of .Notre Dame, but there are many others whose names are not yet on its subscription list, for what reason we cannot tell. If it is because our paper is not worth the money, we have nothing to say. We do not call upon anyone to subscribe just simply to help us along. We endeavor by our personals (and if the old students knew how hard it is to hunt them up, buttonholing a man here and there, they would say that this department alone of the Scholastic was worth the subscription price) by our locals, and by our essays, to give subscribers a readable paper, and one which, to every, one acquainted with Notre Dame and her old students, is worth more than the subscription price, $1.50 per annum.
Roll of Honor.
[In the following list are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. Arnold, A. Ames, P. Cooney, R. Calkins, M. Cross, E. Davenport, W. Dechant, J. Ewing, L. Evers, T. Garrity, J .Gray, T. Garso, J. Hermann, J. Kinney, J. Larkin, H. Maguire, J. Montgomery. P. J. Mattimore, P. vV. Mattimore, T. McGrath, J. McEuiry, C. Otto. J. O’Rourke, P. O’Leary, L. Proudhomme, J. Patterson, T. H. Quinn, J. Quinn. P. Skahill, G. Saylor, T. Summers, F. Schlink, P. Tamble, J. Vanderhoof, J. Kuebel.
172
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A Bergck, W. Brady. F. Carroll, G. Cassidy, F. Cavanaugh, A. Consrar, E. Curran, F. Ewing, C. Faxon, A. Gerlach, J. Haney. W. Hake, J. Ingwerson, G.Ittenbach, J. Johnson. R. Keenan, A. Keenan. J. Krost, T.Knorr, J. Knight, R. Mayer, E. Moran, T. Nelson, J. Nelson, W. Ohlman, C. Orsinger, C. Pennington, F. Pleins, E. Poor, J. Perea, J. Rothert, F. Rheinboldt, W. Roughan, P. Schnurrer, EL Scott, W. Taulby, W. Widdecom.be, T. Wagner.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
E.	Carqueville, W. McDevitt, G. Lambin, J. Seeger, G. Hadden, G. Lowrey, C. Reif, J. Scanlan, G. Rhodius, W. Coolbaugh, H. Riopelle, H. Kitz, C. Kauffman, A. Reinboldt, John Inder-rieden. Jos. Inderrieden, C. Long, A. Sehnert, F. Carqueville, F. Gaffney.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Senior.—J. Gray, T. Summers, J. Murray, W. Turnbull, J.-Larkin, J. D. Montgomery, W. Farra, EL Henkel, W. McGorrisk, E. Davenport, P. O’Leary, J. Kuebel.
Junior.—J. Johnson, J. Duffield, W. Nicholas, G. Donnelly, A. Keenan, R. Keenan, F. Lang, K. Scanlan, F. Carroll, J. White, E. Pennington, C. Johnson, R. Johnson, W. Taulby, B. fleeb, F. Pleins, W. Widdecombe, E. Poor, F. Lancaster, T. Knorr, A Burger, F. Ewing, H. Scott, F. Rheinboldt, J. Healy, F. Cavanaugh, T. Wagner, R. Hayes, F. Cole, W. Ryan, T. Nelson, J. English, W. Jones. J. Boehm, J. Ingwersen, J. Carrer, L. Garceau, J. Haney, C. McKinnon, J. Rose, W. Hake, E. Zeigler, E. Anderson, J. Nelson, J. Ittenbach.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	"
F.	Carqueville, A. Reinboldt, John Inderridden, C. Kauffmann, Jos. Inderriden, A. Sehnert, F. Gaffney, C. Long, H. Riopelle, H. Kitz.	.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the Competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.] FOR THE WEEK ENDING NOV. 9.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
J. Fitzgerald, Arithmetic, Geography, and Book-Keeping; G. Fishburne, Grammar, Book-Keeping; J. Patterson, Grammar, Book-Keeping; A Baca, Grammar, Book-Keeping; T. H. Quinn, Book-Keeping and Penmanship; J. Rothert, Penmanship; J. Herrmann, J. B. Coleman, P. J. Mattimore, G. Saylor, J. Krost, R. Calkins, E. Fishburne, P. W. Mattimore, J. Haggerty F. Rettig, J. Burke, W. Fowler, E. Pefferman, M. Kauffmann, G. Sugg, W. Brady, C. Larkin, W. Sheehon, T. Aylward, J. Gray, P. Hagan, C. Clarke, E. Moran, J. Ingwerson, T. Garso, J. Kenny, M. Smith, C. Orsinger, L. Wolf, T. Garrity, R. Kirby, J. Vanderhoof, BookKeeping.

For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
. SENIOR DEPARTMENT. •
PAR EXCELLENCE.
Misses L. Ritchie, A Walsh, A. O’Connor, M. Julius, M. Cravens, M. Faxon, M. Brady, L. Johnson, J. Bennett, L. Beall, J. Nunning, A. Byrne, M. Walsh, H. Julius, P. Gaynor, R. Casey, K. Hutchinson, L. O’Neill, M. O’Connor, B. Spencer, J. Cooney, A Henneberry, H. Russel, C. Morgan, C. Boyce, J. Cronin, J. Richards, H. Hawkins, E. Lange, M. and E. Thompson, E. O’Connor, L. Rodenberger, S. Moran, M. O’Mahoney, M. Carroll, G. Kelley, M. Schultheis, C. Silverthorne, E. Bouton, G. Wells, M. Dalton, E. Forrey, A Woodin, E. Pleins, D. and A Cavenor, L. Kirchner, L. Schwass, E. Dalton, M. Pomeroy, K. Burgie, J. Wilhelm, J. Burget, G. Conklin, D. Locke, L. Davenport, M. Smalley, M. Usselmann. M. Halligan, J. Burgie, L. Wier, C. Taylor, J. Loman, M. Dailey, L. Kelly, M. Spier, H. Dryfoos, L. Weber, E. Davis, I. Cook, E. Wright.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
Misses C. Corrill, M. McFadden, J. Kingsbury, E. Mulligan, L. Cox, F. Fitz, M. Lambin, M. Cox, C. Van Namee, E. Woot-ten. N. Hackett, A. Williams, J. Butts, A. Getty. M. Robertson, L. Ellis, 100 par excellence. Misses M. Ewing, N. McGrath, A. Ewing, M. Mulligan, A. Morgan, L. Walsh, L. Hutchinson, D. Gordon, A. McGrath, A. Kirchner, L. Chilton, A. Peak, M. Hayes.
HONORABLY MENTIONED FOR IMPROVEMENT IN ENGLISH
LESSONS.
Graduating Class—Misses L. Ritchie, A. Walsh, A. O’Connor, M. Julius, M. Cravens, M. Faxon, M. Brady, L. Johnson, J. Bennett, L. Beall.
1st Senior Class—Misses A. Byrne, M. Walsh, H. Julius, M. Dailey, P. Gaynor, R. Casey. K. Hutchinson, L. O’Niel, A. Harris, M. O’Connor, L. Kelly, J. Cooney, A Henneberry, M. Spier.
2d Sb. Class—Misses H. Russell, C. Morgan, C. Boyce, J. Cronin, J. Richards, H. Hawkins. A. Cullen, E. Lange, H. Dryfoos, M. and E. Thompson, E. O’Connor, S. Moran, M. O’Mahoney. M. Carroll, B. Wilson.
3d Sr. Class—Misses L. Weber, G. Kelly. C. Silverthorne, E. Bouton, G. Wells, M. Dalton, E. Davis, A. Woodin, E. Pleins, J. Stough, D. and A Cavenor, L. Kirchner.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses L. Schwass, E. Dalton, M. Pomeroy, K. Burgie, J. Wilhelm, J. Burgert, G. Conklin, L. Davenport, M. Smalley.
2d Prep. Class—Misses M. Usselmann, M. Halligan, ,M. Hungerford, J. Burgie, L. Wier.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
2d Sr. Class.—Miss M. Ewing.
3d Sr. Class.—Miss N. McGrath.
1st Prep. Class.—Misses A Ewing, A Morgan, L. Walsh, L. Hutchinson, D. Gordon.
2d Prep. Class.—Misses A. McGrath, A. Kirchner, L. Chilton, E. Wight, E. Mulligan, I. Mann.
Junior Prep. Class.—Misses C. Carroll, M. Hayes, L. Cox, F. Fitz, M. Lambin..
2d Jr. Class.—Miss A. Williams.
LATIN.	.
1st Class—Misses M. Cravens, N. Davis.
2d Class—Misses L. Rodenbergen, M. Carroll, H. Hawkins, J. Cooney, H. Russell.
FRENCH.
1st Class—Misses L. Beall, N. McGrath, M. Thompson, E. Thompson, B. Wilson, A. Harris.
2d Class—Misses H. Russell, A. McGrath, J. Burgert, E. Wight, J. Bennett, C. Silverthorn.
3d Class—Misses M. Brady, L. Rodenbergen, M. Daily, A Byrnes, M. Walsh, M. O’Connor.	'
4th Class—Misses S. Moran, J. Cronin, J. Stough, D. Locke, M. Ewing, D. Hayes, A. Ewing, A. Getty, J. Butts, A Williams.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses J. Nunning, M. Faxon, A O’Connor, M" Julius, L. Kirchner, L. Weber, L. Pleins, A. Kirchner, H. Julius, H. Dryfoos.
2d Class—Misses M. Usselman, A Harris, N. Davis, L. Walsh, A. D. Gordon, L. Johnson, M. Spier, S. Henneberry.
3d Class—Misses J. Wilhelm, S. Boyce.
FANCY-WORK.
Misses M. Faxon, M. Usselman, L. Wier, E. Dalton, M. Dalton, A Koch, H. Dryfoos, M. Brady, M. Halligan, J. Wilhelm, A. Byms, M. Hungerford, I. Cook, L. Schwass, E. Balton, J. Richards, L. Kirchner, C. Taylor, M. Smalley, G. Wells, M. and E. Thompson, J. Loman, A. Morgan, M. McFadden, D. Gordon, A. Kirchner, if. Lambin, A. Getty, A. Williams, J. Butts, E. Cox, L. Van Namee, C. Corrill, G. Conklin, D. Locke.
PLAIN SEWING.
Misses L. Ritchie, M. Faxon, J. Nunning, A Walsh, M. Brady M. Daily, K. Hutchinson, M. Spier, S. Moran, J. Cronin, M. Carroll, H. Hawkins, L. Pleins, L. Weber, E. Forrey, E. Bouton, D. Cavenor, L. Schwass, K. Burgie, M. Pomeroy, G. Conklin, M. Usselmann, M. Halligan, M. Hungerford.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN VOCAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses E. O’Connor, and B. Spencer. 2d Div.— D. Cavenor
2d Class—Misses C.Morgan and A Byrne. 2d Drv—Misses M. Usselman, L. and A Kirchner.
3d Class—Misses, J. Bennet, A Walsh, Gordon, E. Dalton, M. Walsh, M. Dalton, L. Walsh. 2d Div.—Misses R. Casey, D. Locke, H. Dryfoos, J. Cronin, L. Weber, L. Hutchinson, H. O’Meara.

—To do an evil action is base; to do a good action, without incurring danger, is common enough; but it is-the part of a good man to do great and noble deeds, though he risks everything.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	17S
ATTORNEYS AT LAW,
1776 MUSIC BOOKS. 1876
SPEER «fc MITCHELL [N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
LUCIUS G-. TONG, [of'65] Attorney and Counsellor at Law, and Real Estate Agent, Room No 2 Arnold’s Block, South Bend, Ind.
mHOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of '621 Attorney at
A Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FANNING & HOGAN [D. J. Hogan, of ’74], Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N.E. tor Clark and Randolph sts , Chicago, III.
2F. ZbZEZEYZEZRz, Agent
FOR
DOMESTIC AND
Fine Havana Cigars.
101 MAIN ST.) SOUTH BEND, IND.
Branch, of SHIRE'S, 184 E. Madison Street, Chicago. ■	s30-ly
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two story frame house', well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage shed, coal-house, young trees, grapes, shrubbery, etc., will be sold at reasonable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, Notre Dame, Ind.
Centennial Collection OF NATIONAL SONGS.
All thq prominent National Songs, in an elegant collection, well harmonized, and with piano (or organ) accompaniment. Every American needs a copy of snch a hook as this, and the Songs are the best of all Songs for use in this Centennial year-
Contents:
Keller’s American Hymn. Hail Columbia.
Star-Spangled Banner. Our Flag is there.
Red, White and Blue.
Yankee Doodle.
To tbee, O Country. Columbia the Gem. Watch on the Rhine.
Fatherland. [German.] Wearing of the Green. St. Patrick’s Day. Russian National Hymn.
God save the Queen.
Rule Brittania.
Roast Beef of Old England.
Men of Harlech. [Welch].
Partant pour Syrie.
Marseilles Hymn.
Garibaldi Hymn.
King Oscar. [Swedish.] Campbell’s are Cornin’. Bruce’s Address.
King Christian. [Danish.] Spanish National Hymn. Austrian “	“
Pi ice in Cloth, 75 cents; Boards 50 cents; Paper, 40 cents.
, Mailed, post-free, for above price.
MUSIC
appropriate to the year will be found in “American Tune Book.” (81.50) in “ Father Kemp’s Old Folks' Concert Tunes.” Tourjee’s Centennial Collection (40 cts), and in Sheet Music, Martha Washington Quadrilles, Centennial March, &c., &c.
Th® Bimd
A. McKay, Prop.,
NILES, LLTOTTIG-7KLT.
Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House
(One Milo West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED B¥ THE SISTERS OF HOLT CROSS.
This Institution, situated ou the beautiful and picturesque banks of the St. Joseph River, is everything that could be desired as a locality for a female academy. All the branches of a solid and complete education are taught here. Music, both vocal and instrumental, and the modern languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction.
Particular attention is paid to the religious instruction of Catholicpupils. Pupils of all denominations are received, and for the sake of order required to attend the public religious exercises with the members of the Institution.
The buildings are spacious and commodious, suited to the educational reqnirem' nts of the day, and furnished with all modern improvements Every poriion of the building is heated by steam, and hot and cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartments.
The grounds are very extensive, beautifully adorned, and situated in that charming seclusion which is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power.
The proximity of the two institutions to each other is a great convenience to parents having children at both, when they visit their sons and daughters.
For further particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the Twentieth Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy dr the year 1874-75, oraddress
- St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Ind.
MUSIC BOOKS,
FOR MUSICAL SOCIETIES, CONVENTIONS, ETC.
Mals Voice Glee Book
a large number of new Glees and Quartets of the very best quality.
Emerson’s Chorus Bobk^.'S.^S^ the choruses are first class, and worthy of practice by the best singers.	■
People’s Chorus Book, f	a°
glees and choruses are all “ gems.”
For Choirs, Singing Schools, Contentions;
mi,.	($L38- Per dozen §12.) By L. O. Em-
OaiKcaulQa. erson. Hymn tunes, Anthems and
Music for Singing Classes. One of the best Church Music Books of our publication.
mi, a ■PnaATO cts- or ^T'50 Per doz-) By L- Em-fiuGure. erson. Designed especially for Singing
Schools, for which it is an admirable book.'
For Schools, Academies, Seminaries, etc.
The Whippoorwill.
Common Schools, new, very bright and attractive.
The High School Choir.
peared.
OLIVER DTTSOIT & CO.,
BOSTON.
C. H. DITSON & CO., J. E. DITSON & CO., 711 Broadway, Biff YORK. Successors to Lee 4 Walker, FliUa.
174
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
McDonald,
THE PHOTOGRAPHER,
Is still at his
OLD STAND ON MICHIGAN STREET
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Have you any thought of going to California? Are you going West, North, or Northwest? You want to know the best routes to take? The shortest, safest, quickest, and most comfortable routes are those owned by the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company. It owns over two thousand miles of the best road there is in the country. Ask any ticket agent to show you its maps and time cards. All ticket agents can sell you through tickets by this route.
Buy your tickets via the Chicago and Northwestern Railway for
SJLNT FRAHCISCO,
Sacramento. Ogden, Salt Lake City, Cheyenne, Denver, Omaha, Lincoln, Council Bluffs, Yankton, Sioux City, Dubuque, Winona, St. Paul, Duluth, Marquette. Green Bay. Oshkosh, Madison, Milwaukee, and all points West or Northwest of Chicago.
If you wish the best travelling accommodations, you will buy your tickets by this route, and wifi take no other.
This popular route is unsurpassed for speed, comfort and safety. The smPoth.well-b1’ lasted and perfect track of steel rails. Westinghouse a.r brakes. Miller’s safety platform and coupler3, the celebrated o’ullman Palace Sleeping <’ars, the perfect telegraph system of moving trains, the regularity with which they run, the admirable arrangement for running through cars from Chicago to all points West, North, and Northwest, secure to passengers all the comforts in modern railway t raveling.
CARS
are run on all trains of this road.
This is the only line running these cars between Chicago and St Paul, or Chicago and Milwaukee.
At Omaha our sleepers connect with the Overland Sleepers on the Onion Pacific Railroad for all points west of the Missouri River.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
Marvin Hugbitt,	W. H. Stennett,
General Superintendent.	Gen’l Passenger Agent
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES,
Union Depot, West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City . nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, Il., and Louisiana, Mo.....2-40	pm 12 30 pm
Springfield and St. Lou’s Ex. via Main Line.7 50 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line.............................7 40 am	9 00	pm
Pekin and Peoria Fast Express...........4 00 pm	10 00	am
Peoria Day Express......................7 50 pm	9 00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex........7 40 am	9 00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express....7 50 pm	9 00 am
Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 2 40 pm	12 30 pm
Joliet Accommodation....................9 20 am	5 00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
Chicago, E. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Route to California.
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m. 3 45 p.m.
Pern accommodation............... 5 00 p.m.	9 35 a.m.
Night Express....................10 00 p.m. 6 50 a.m.
A. M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gen’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent.
Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne & Chicago,
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE. NOVEMBER, 1875.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
Trains with Through *'ars l
NEW YORK.
Lv. CHICAGO..., Ar. FT. WAYNE.
“ Rochester... “ Pittsburgh...
Lv. Pittsburgh.... Ar. Cresson......
“ Harrisburg.., “ Baltimore..., “ Washington.. “ Philadelphia. “ New York... “ New Haven.. “ Hartford .... “ Springfield.., “ Providence.. “ Boston........
No. 2. Day Ex. Ex Sund’y	No. 6. Pac. Exp. Daily.	No. 4. Night Ex. Ex Sa&Su
9 00 a.m.	5 15 p.m.	10 00 p.m.
2 10 p.m.	11 25 “	6 15 a.m.
1 04 a.m. 11 12 a.m.		5 54 p.m.
2 10 “	12 15 “	7 05 “
2 55 “	1 10 p.m.	8 10 “
11 30 a.m.	11 05 “	3 45 a.m.
6 25 p.m.		7 35 “
9 07 “		9 02 “
3 30 “	3 10 a.m.	7 35 “
6 45 “	6 50 “	10 25 “
11 52 “	10 40 “	3 26 p.m
1 27 a.m.	12 11 p.m.	
2 20 “	12 57 p.m.	
5 10 “	3 48 “	7 4“
6 15 “	4 50 “	9 05 “
THIS IS THE ONLY LDXTE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City. Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. MTEBS, G. P. & T. A.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, April 16,1876, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 40 a m.. Night Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 40 p m; Buffalo !t 05.
IO 36 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 35 p m;
Cleveland 10 10.	.
12 27 p m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 50; Cleveland 10 10; Buffalo 4 00 am.
9 11 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo.
2 40: Cleveland, 7 (0; Buffalo, 1 05p u .
11 25 pm, Fast Mail. Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 3 50am; Cleveland 7 10 a m., Buffalo 12 45 p m.
7 OO p m, Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
8 41 a m, Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 45 p m, Chicago 6 am.
5 06 am, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 6; Chicago820am.
4 54 p m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 •
Chicago, 8 20	’
S 01 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 01 a m; Chicago 11 30 a. m.
3 38 a m., Fast Mail. Arrives at Laporte 4 28 a. m.; Chicago 6 55 a. m.	’
8 55 a m, Local Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland. •
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	175
The Naturalists’ Agency
TAZIDERMY.
The large increase of my business has compelled me to ren, the store No. 3727, and use it entirely for Birds, Mammals, Shellst Fossils, Mound-Builders, Relics, and all objects of Natural History except Minerals. These latter we still keep in No. 3725.
The demand upon me for taxidermists’ work has induced me to secure the services of one of the best taxidermists in the country, a gentleman who was employed by the Smithsonian Institution in South America for 3 years. I am now fully prepared to do the best kind of taxidermists’ work at exceedingly low prices. I have a very large stock of Western and Southern birds on hand. Also, Heads and Antlers for Museums, Dining-Rooms, Halls and Libraries.
As it is the intention to issue a Zoological Catalogue at no very distant date, those having collections or specimens for sale will consult their interests by forwarding particulars at as early a date as possible.
Our Mineralogical Catalogue, illustrated by over §300 worth of engravings, is now ready for distribution. Free to all customers; to others on receipt of 10 cents for postage. I desire especially to call attention to my remarkably fine specimens of Amazon Stone, of which I have or have had nine-tenths of all the specimens ever found. I have made six trips to the locality and think I may safely say that no more will be found. Good crystals from 15 cents to §1 each.
My Titanium Minerals are the finest ever known. Besides the Hydrated Titanic Acid, Hydrotitanite, a mineral recently analyzed by Dr. Kcenig, of Pennsylvania University, I have also remarkably well-crystalized Perofskites, Brookites of enormous size. Rutiles geniculated till they form a circle, Schorlomite, Warwickite. &c.
In Peganite we have large surfaces covered with minute bright-green crystals. We have the most beautiful green Wavellite ever known, colored by vanadic acid.
The Columbite crystals that occur in the Amazon stone are very interesting. The Graphite from New Mexico occurs in hexagonal prisms.
The Embolite from New Mexico is the best ever found at any locality. We are selling Amethyst at far lower prices than it was ever sold before. We have sold over $1,000 worth since the 10th of July.
Oct. 20th.—We have just received over 3,500 lbs. of minerals from the Yellowstone National Park Company, comprising magnificent Amethyst, Agate, Zeodes. saddle-shaped dolomite crystals, several inches; fine chalcedonies, geyserites, Pealite, &c., &c. I have also just received 2,000 lbs. of'Amethyst from north of Lake Superior. These I am selling at about % the rate that they have ever been sold for before' in the East. Have also received boxes from North Carolina, New Hampshire, Canada, Colorado (Hamiltonite, Bismuthinite) Rhode Island, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Maine, New York, New Jersey, Virginia, Maryland, &e., &c.
100 Crystals and Fragments for Study,...........$	1.00
100 Specimens, Students’ Size, Larger, ....... 5 00
100 Specimens, Larger, Amateurs’ Size, 2X+1J£ inches> l°-°° Chalcophanite, Rcepperite, Ludwigite, Jacobsite, Trogerite Zuenerite, Hexagonite (?). and most new species on hand. Lithia mica, 20 cents per pound, or $15 per hundred weight.
We have on hand a magnificent suite of crinoids from Illinois; Trilobites, coal measure plants, &c., from Missouri, Ohio, Tennessee, and other States.
In Shells we have recently received invoices from the Pacific coast and islands, Florida, &c.
Of Prehistoric Relics we have a very interesting assortment
Water vessels in the shape of frogs, fish, women, some painted. Pipes, axes, skinners, arrows, &c. Water bottles of the present fashionable shape made thousands of years ago. We shall soon issue a circular illustrated by engravings of some of the more remarkable forms that we have.
Our collection of plants is very fine, comprising many that are rare, from the far North and West.
We have several hundred volumes of rare old works on Mineralogy, Chemistry and the Natural Sciences. Among them are many of the most interesting of the State and Government Reports.
Collections of Gems, Ores, Earthy Minerals, Minerals used in any Art or in Agriculture, on hand or put up to order.
We have in stock a large number of showy Specimens for Museums, of Amazon Stone, Cairngorum Stone, Loadstone lifting horse-shoes, &c., &c.
A. E. FOOTE, M. D.,
Prof. Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow Am. Ass'n Adv. of Science.
3725 and 3727 Lancaster Avenue, Philadelphia, Pa.
THE “AVE MARIA,”
-A. CATHOLIC JOURNAL
ir^m.
(16 pp. Imperial Svo.)
Published Every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind.
APP?J)YSD BT HIS H3LIN3SS PUTS IX., AUD MAH EMINENT PRELATE
Among the many contributors to the Ave Maria may be mentioned
Aubrey de Verb,	Grace Ramsay,
Henri Lasserre,	Anna H. Dorsey,
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Eleanor C. Donnelly, Lady Fullerton, Eliza Allen Starr, The Author of “Christian Schools and Scholars.” The Misses Howe, The Author of “Tyborne,” etc., etc., etc.	etc., etc., etc.
TERMS z
One Year..........................................$ 2 50
Five Years........................................10 00
Clubs of Ten (and over, at the rate of $2 each)...20 00
A specimen copy sent free to any address on application.
Payments invariably in advance. Money should be sent either in Registered Letter or by Post Office Order on Notre Dame Post-Office.
All communications should be addressed to the
BEV. EDITOR OF THE “AVE MARIA,” Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dealers Supplied by the American News Company, 115 & 121 Nassau St., New York.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
TZUTZOT-A-HST-A—
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844*
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. Situated near the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, Michigan Central, and the Peninsular Railroads, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
TERMS.
Matriculation Fee.................................... $5	00
Board, Tuition (Languages, Linear Drawing and Vocal
Music included), Bed and Bedding, Washing and a
Mending of Linens, per Session of five months.... 150 00
Instrumental Music.................................... 12	50
Use of Piano.........................................   10	00
Use of Violin......................................... 2	50
Telegraphy............................................ 10	00
Vocal T essons J General Class Principles........... 10	00
Vocal Lessons, j Vocal Culture...................... 15	00
Elocution—Special Course............................. 5	00
Use of Library (per session)......................... 1	00
Drawing—Landscape and Artistic...................... 15	00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus.......... 5	00
( Classical Course.................. 10	00
Graduation Fee, 4 Scientific Course................. 10	00
( Commercial Course.................. 5	00
Students who spend Summer vacation at the University are charged extra.............................. 40	00
Doctors’ Fees and Medicines at Physician’s charges.
Students received at any time, their Session beginning with date of entrance.
payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class-Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The first session begins on the first Tuesday of September the second on the first of February.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, addrese
Rev. P. J. Golovin, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
176
-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
HOLIDAY, WEDDING, OR BIRTHDAY PRESENT.
Automatic Crystal Fountain.
Self-Acting, Requiring no Pressure of Water.
SHIGKEY, PROPRIETOR OF THE NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY’S ’BUS LINE!
Whilst I return my thanks to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I beg leave to inform the public that I have, at the urgent request of many of my patrons, purchased SEVERAL NEW CARRIAGES and BUGGIES, and moved into the LIVERY STABLES
Attached to tire Na tional Hotel, and A <1- jacent to tire X<afee Slioi-e and
Michigan Southern Depot.
Now, that telegraphic communication has been made bet veen Notre Dame and my office, through the Michigan Southern De^ot, I shall be prompt to have passengers in time to meet all trains.
For my attention to the alrons of Notre Dame and St. Mail’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
F. S HICKEY.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-November 21,1875.
	•Mail.	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	+Atlantic Express.	t Nigh Express
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles 	 “ Jackson	 Ar. Detroit		5 00 a.m 7 32 “ 9 02 “ 2 08 p.m 5 45 “	9 00 a.m 11 00 “ 12 09 p.m 3 55 “ 6 25 “	4 00 p.m 6 30 “ 8 20 “ Express. 10 15 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 8 55 “ 12 40 a m 3 30 “	9 00 pm 11 15 “ 12 35 “ 4 52 8 00 a m
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 0 40 “ 3 45 p,m 5 10 “ 7 30	10 05 a m 12 32 p.m 4 23 “ 5 35 “ 8 00 “	4 00 p m 715 “ 6 10 a.m 7 50 “ 10 20 *•	5 40 p.m 9 25 “ 2 30 a.m 4 05 “ 6 30 '•	9 50 p m 12 42 a.u. 4 30 “ 5 50 “ 8 00 “
Niles and South T5en<l Hi'vision.
GOING NORTH.
Lv. South Bend—8 15 a.m. “ Notre Dame—8 22
Ar. Niles— 9 00 “
7 15 p m.
7 23 “
§9 06 a.m.
9 07 “
9 40 “
§7 00 p.m 7 07 “
GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles—	6	30	a.m.	4 20	p.m.	§8 00	a.m.	§5 00	p.m
“ Notre Dame—7 07 “	4 56	“	8	32	“	5	32	“
Ar. South Bend—7 15 “	5 05	“	8	40	•*	5	40	“
•Sunday excepted. tDaily.	^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
gSunday only.
G. L. Eixiott,	Wm. B. Strong,
Agent, South Bend,	Gen’l Sup’t, Chicago
Henry C. Wentworth, G. P. & T. A., Chicago.
'	B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agt., Notre Dame.
JANSEN, McCLURG & GO.,
Importers and Dealers in Fine
Books and Stationery,
117 AND 119 STATE STBEET,
Patented Feb. 7, 1871.
Price Complete $15.
More elaborate styles furnished; also, Fountains for Counter use, with only silver-plated basin and jet in sight.
^^“Address for Circular,
J. w. TUFTS,
33 to 39 Bowker St., . . Boston, Mass.
M. Livingston & Go.,
-A.T&ZE THE
Leading Merchant Tailors in South Bend.
They Have the Best Cutter Inthe City, nd make suits in the latest styles at the lowest prices. Their stock of Clotiling, Cloths, Casslmeres, Vestings, and Gents’ Furnishing Goods, is he largest and most complete, and comprises all the new styles Satisfaction guaranteed on all goods.
8 00 “
7 40 “
REMEMIBETJ THE PLACE.
CHICAGO, ILLHSTOIS.
94 MICHIGAN St, SOUTH BEND, IND.