Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper victniru.s ; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JULY 5, 1879.
Number 43.
Ita Tenebree Sieut Lux.
BY JAMES KENT STONE (NOW FATHER FIDELIS, C. P.)
This poem, beautiful and simple as one of the old breviary hymns, was written in a student’s album at Kenyon College. The author was then President of that institution, and of course not yet a Catholic. The following translation from the original Latin was made for the Ave Maria:
Eve is now her shades extending,
Night, obscure and dread, descending, Darkness shrouds the earth and skies;
Glorious from Thy bright dominions, Bearing health upon Thy pinions, Rise, 0 Sun of Justice, rise !
Care and grief have long oppressed me, Sin made weary and distressed me, While sweet hope dwells far apart;
Come, and shed on me Thy gladness, Lift, dear Lord, this cloud of sadness, Thou who God and goodness art!
Wings, 0 I quickly might I borrow, Rising, dove-like, care and sorrow, Fault, affliction leaving far,
Swift to Thee my flight were given;
Safe at length in that dear haven, Peace in full my soul should share.
Thon who rulest high in glory, Turning yet to our poor story, With a Father’s tenderness, Help Thy child, so spent, so needy, And his thirsting heart with speedy Bounteous peace, 0 Father, bless I
Thou each hidden pathway knowest; And the guardian care Thou showest Day and night with us remains:
Prove me, search my inmost spirit; Aided by Thy supreme merit, Who shall rashly cause me pains!
When mine eyes have known the vision Of Thy strength, those choirs Elysian
Hovering near shall safety bring;
Nought in night shall more be fearful, Resting in Thy light all cheerful, Saviour, Lord, and Heavenly King!
Kenyon College, May 20,1867.
—An infidel said sarcastically to a clergyman: “I always spend Sunday in settling my accounts.” The reverend gentleman did not wither as expected, but simply replied: “And yon will probably spend the day of Judgment in the same way.”
The Necessity of Civil Authority.
“Civil authority is indispensable to humanity; man being a social being, his nature requires it."
This is a proposition which no one can call in question without betraying a great ignorance of the tendencies of human nature, and a great lack of ordinary experience. Man is a social being. This tendency is implanted in his nature by his Creator, and is so much a part of him that no one has ever succeeded in completely eradicating it No doubt there have been men who lived in solitude, but they were exceptions to the rule, and their perseverance in it was due to the extraordinary helps and graces consequent upon an extraordinary vocation.
If we examine the chronicles of the past, we will find that those who lived away from society were comparatively few,—so few, indeed, that they would scarcely constitute an exception when taking into account the rest of mankind.
The helplessness of his infancy is only nature’s assertion that man needs the assistance of his fellow-man. For even the young of the beasts of the field are better able, at their birth, to battle for life than man would be if left alone in early childhood. Only society can protect him, only society can perfect him, only there can he exercise his inestimable privilege of speech, and find his life varied “ with gleam and shadow and a peace supreme.” Man’s heart yearns after the social throng; his faculties need it for their development; his inborn aspirations to happiness lead him on almost of necessity.
Nature even forestalls the longing by giving him birth in society. Man is born a social being. Social ties bind him with his swathing bands; social loves nestle in his heart when the first rays of light settle on his brow. Nature does not change, and such as our natural aspirations now are, such were they in the beginning. Man now seeks, and he has ever sought, the delights of peace, not the disquietude of strife. Relying, then, on the conviction that man was made for society, that nature destined him to it as to the crown of his highest perfections, and left in his heart a thirst for joys which only society can satisfy, it is worth one’s while to examine the nature of this source of human pleasure, looking into the elements of which it consists, seeking the main-spring whence all its efficacy comes to man, and gazing upon it in the light of the beautiful examples which philosophy holds up before us, with truth for its foundation, with harmony for its action, and with the perfection of order as the obj ect ' at which it aims.
We might proceed with the course of nature, and. recall to mind the gradual evolution of man’s social tendencies in the family, and in the filial and servile relations which the.
666
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
family circle most generally involves. But we will rather dwell upon that more developed form of social organization, civil society.	-
What, then, is civil society ? It may be called “ a perfect union of men gathered together for the enjoyment of their rights, and for the sake of the common good.” Hence we find in it two elements—a multitude possessing individual rights, and an effective principle reducing all to order, making the many one, and directing the activity of that one to the end which is to be attained. Both these elements are essential. For, just as there can be no society without a multitude, so can there be none without authority. Moreover, in their union they make an organic whole, whose parts are vivified and active; a whole whose members have their own private and indispensable functions; for society is not a mere mechanism in which man must lose the dignity of his personality, the father give up his relationship to his child, and the master forego his right to command his servant; but a more perfectly developed moral person, a public guardian by whom all rights are protected and strengthened, and by whom other rights are superadded.
Society, therefore, which is indispensable to mankind, cannot exist without authority, for it is evident if every one in society were to act solely for himself, for his own interests, without regard to the rights and interests of his neighbor, the continual conflicts and shocks of individual interests would soon dissolve society.
The social body, therefore, requires organization. As well might you expect to keep up a healthy circulation of the blood in the veins of the human body if the central impulse of the heart be wanting, as to expect health and unity in the social body, in all its complicated civil and political relations, without a strong central power to direct it and to uphold it.
In other words, society cannot exist without order,— order without justice, justice without law, nor law without some one to make, expound and enforce it; that is, without government, without civil authority.
The conclusion naturally forces itself on us that the very nature of man which makes society necessary for him, makes government necessary for society; but the government of any society, of any country, whether it be king, president, or senate, must always have power in order that all shall submit to the law, since otherwise it could not perform the office of protecting. This power is ‘Civil Authority.’ The very nature of man, then, requires that he should live in the society of others, because neither his physical wants can be supplied nor his moral and intellectual faculties developed, except in society; but society cannot exist without order, nor order without some one to maintain it,—that is, without ‘ Civil Authority.’
Another reflection on this first point. There is in nature a harmony which is exceedingly grand. It exists on earth, and sea, and sky, and all things. This harmony is the unceasing hymn of order which rises from the universe, like the voice of devotion giving to the Creator His glory and His praise. No one who has made himself familiar with the study of nature, with the order which disposes all things well, can fail to perceive that in the great storehouse of beings the ultimate elements of this order and harmony are no other than multiplicity and unity—many reduced to one. Amongst men this multiplicity and unity is what constitutes society, and the motive power which makes men seek society is their inborn love of peace and concord,	I
To preserve this harmony, all things must balance, that the many may find the repose of unity; for unity is peace, and peace is the stillness of order.
If, then, men would give to life the harmony of order and move forward in peace and security to their last and common end, they must lean one upon another; that is, they must maintain the bond of unity, the bond of society, which is no other than ‘Civil Authority.’ From what has been said, then, on this first point, the plain and simple conclusion forces itself on us that “Civil authority is indispensable to man because he is a social being.”
2d Point.—“Civil Authority is indispensable for the maintenance of individual and national rights.” Men are not all equal; all, it is true, possess equal natural rights —rights which spring from human nature by the mere fact of birth; but there are other rights to be considered— acquired rights, rights whose variety spring fundamentally from man’s liberty, inasmuch as various free wills adopt various lines of conduct by which these rights are won.
Such rights are by no means equal in all men. They are different, for instance, in the rich and the poor, in the learned and ignorant. To maintain these individual rights, Civil Authority, the active principle of society, is absolutely indispensable. To be convinced by this truth we have only to consult history, only to reflect on our everyday experience of what happens in the world. We read in Sacred History that when the Jews returned from captivity and began to rebuild the walls of their city, they were so beset by enemies that they were forced to be constantly armed and on their guard, and for fear of a sudden attack each man worked with one hand only, and the other held a weapon ready. In this way it took, at least, two men to do the work of one. Even at this day many parts of Asia are nearly in the same condition; they are so infested with robbers that no man can hope to escape being robbed unless he is well armed and on his guard. When the farmer goes to sow his fields, travellers relate that he has to take with him a companion with a sword or spear, to protect him from being robbed of his seed corn. And notwithstanding these means, the protection of property must be very imperfect, for the robbers will often come in such force as to overpower the defenders, and plunder the industrious of all the fruits of their labors. Accordingly in those countries there is very little land cultivated; the inhabitants are few, and miserably poor; all this is owing to the insecurity of life and property.
The same is the case in all countries where the people are savages or nearly savages. Behold our own American Indians how they live. Most of the time and labor and care of the Indian is taken up in providing for his defence, in providing arms for his protection against those whom he thinks he is able to fight, or in seeking hiding places from those who are too strong for him. Such, then, is the case in all countries where civil authority is unknown
The remedy of this state of things is to be found only in settled, government, where civil authority is known, maintained and respected. The office of government being to afford protection to individuals and to nations, it provides ships of war and companies of soldiers to guard against foreign enemies, against pirates, and against rebels; it also provides watchmen and other officers to protect individuals in their rights; it likewise provides judges and courts of justice for trials; and prisons for confining offenders; and, in short, everything that is necessary for the peace and welfare of the'people and of the nation,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
667
iwtRysyiii
3d Point.—“ Without civil authority we should see nothing in the world hut chaos.” This can be easily seen, easily concluded from what has been already said; it is also seen from the fact that the free will of man acts and plots unseen; man lays his plans and works for his own interest, without regard to the interests and rights of his neighbor. He shirks the labor of his duties, and is always more ready to contend for his rights than for his duties, forgetting that duty is the foundation of all his rights.
Take away this bond of social union, and man’s passions, which are strong even under restraint, will stop at nothing, will do away with all order; man himself will fall from the civilized to the savage state, nor will there be left him in the absence of civil authority the hope or the means of ever rising from the savage to the civilized state; and for the very good reason that in the moral no more than in the physical world can the stream rise higher than the fountain.
Civil authority is the guardian of man’s liberty, of that only real liberty which consists in obedience to the law and to order; for a liberty which is opposed to authority is irrational. Reason tells us that we must dispose the means to the end; that we must maintain order; and what is civil authority but the preserver of order and a grand assistant in the right disposition of means to the end ? For the sake of order and unity, for the sake of preserving man in his dignity, society must have authority, or the power of ruling and securing obedience to the law. Hence without civil authority there would, as we have shown, be “ nothing in the world but chaos and annihilation.”
4th Point.—“To deny the existence of civil authority would be an insult to the wisdom and providence of God, since it would ignore both.” If, as we have seen, civil authority is indispensable to man’s welfare, if without it man cannot hope to maintain himself in his rights, cannot hope to perfect, to develop the powers of his soul,— those powers and faculties which render him so much like his Creator,—to deny its existence, the existence of a matter so essential to humanity, would, then, be an insult to man’s Creator, to the wisdom and providence with which that Creator, the Author of man’s nature and being, directs all things to their end, which is His own glory and man’s individual happiness.
Indeed, to suppose that God, who created man to do honor to Him, and thereby render himself happy, would abandon man so far as to leave him unprovided with this bulwark—civil authority—to leave him to hap-hazard— would be entirely repugnant to any correct idea of God, who declares of Himself that not even a sparrow falls to the ground without His' consent, and that He numbers the very hair_ of our head.
Indeed unless God appointed, and in His goodness and care for man’s welfare instituted civil authority, we should not find it existing at all times and in all places and among all nations. We know that God created all things for Himself. God made man lord of the earth that through man He might receive the homage of all other creatures that exist on the earth; this, then, is man’s office, not only to do homage to God for himself, but likewise to offer to God the honor and glory due to Him by all else that exist on this earth. This duty man cannot perform unless he is furnished all the aids that are needful to its performance; but God, who does not, who cannot demand anything of man without first furnishing the necessary means, does require this from him. He, therefore, gives him the means;
and civil authority which maintains and preserves society, is necessary to man if he would render due homage and glory to God.
To deny the existence of civil authority would, therefore, be tantamount to saying that God is wanting in wisdom, in that wisdom which adapts the means to the end. We said that without society man’s physical necessities could not be supplied, nor his mental and moral faculties developed. We also said that without civil authority, which is the bond of society, the animating element of society, society itself could not exist
To say, therefore, that civil authority does not exist, and is not given to man by God, would be an insult to the goodness, wisdom and providence of God, who is the Author of man’s being and therefore of these necessities.
' - Z.
Watertown, Wis., June 24,1879.
St. Aloysius’ Day at St. Laurent College, near Montreal, Canada.
Among the many festivals that take place during the scholastic year, there is none which the students of this institution of learning take greater pleasure in celebrating than the Feast of St. Aloysius Gonzaga, the patron of the studious and Christian students themselves, and also of their well-beloved Superior, the Rev. Aloysius Geoffrion, C. S. C. The festivities of the day were preceded by a grand entertainment on the evening of the 20th, in the large college hall, which was decorated in fine style: festoons of evergreens were suspended from the ceiling, while the walls were adorned with flags, festoons, etc. At 8 o’clock, the entertainment began with a spirited overture by the college band, under the leadership of Prof. N. Vian. When the curtain was raised, Master Alexander Pinet, one of the charming Minims, appeared on the stage, and delivered in an exquisite manner, and with grace, a short address of welcome. Judging from his talents, and maimer of delivery, we-bespeak for him a bright future. He was followed by Mr. R. Vilatte,—a real Frenchman, all the way from the capital of the world, Paris—who sang, with great effect, “ Maudite soit la Guerre!” Mr. C. Hurley, President of the St. Patrick’s Literary Society, eulogized St. Aloysius. The Band concluded the first part of the programme with some very fine selections.
The drama “ L'Innocence Reconnue” opened the second part of the evening’s entertainment. The acting of the young students who took part in that highly moral play was quite creditable. Messrs. R. Vilatte as the “King,” and C. Rodier as “Ernest,” deserve special praise. After the drama, Mr. R. Vilatte favored the audience with one of his choice comic songs, “Ie Tjedeau de la Paroisse” which was received with great applause and laughter. Mr. Thos. Loughran then appeared, and delivered in his usual grand style the “Polish Boy.” He was listened to with marked attention as he vividly and feelingly pictured the Polish mother begging for the life of her doomed son. Addresses in French and English were then presented to the Rev. Father Superior, to which he responded in a feeling manner, advising the students to follow in the footsteps of their holy Patron, St. Aloysius. During the evening there were represented on the stage several fine tableaux woants, the last of which was a surprise to the Rev. Superior; for he beheld a beautiful oil-painting of himself held by four young Minims, and presented by Mr. Vilatte
1
668
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
in a few graceful words, as a present from the students. The Band closed the exercises of the evening with a stirring march, and all departed much pleased with the entertainment.
On the day of the Saint’s Feast, a Solemn Mass was celebrated, with Rev. A. Geoffrion, C. S. C., as celebrant; Rev. E. Desfosses, C. S. C., as deacon; Rev. J. P. Mannion, C. S. C., as subdeacon; and Mr. Thos. A. Nealon as master of ceremonies. The high altar was covered with flowers, both artificial and natural, and with various colored lights. The altar of St. Aloysius was also very elegantly and richly decked. In the afternoon, the Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament was given. During the day, when not engaged in religious exercises, the boys enjoyed themselves to their heart’s content in various innocent ways; and as the sun disappeared below the horizon and the shades of night began to spread over the campus all retired highly delighted with the festivities of the day.
Spectator.
He Wishes to Look Like a Man.
Here is what the New York Sun has to say on the subject of downy beards. The young lawyers of Notre Dame who spend their precious hours before the glass coaxing reluctant mustaches will read and ponder these words of sunny wisdom.—Ed. Scholastic.
A young friend in North Carolina writes to the Sun seeking information in regard to a matter in which many of our youthful readers are probably interested also. He wishes not only to be a man and earn the respect and confidence well-tested and competent maturity is entitled to, but also to look like a man; and therefore he desires to raise a beard and moustaches. This is his case:
“Sir: I have been working hard for a living for some years, and have just obtained license to practice law; but am constantly twitted about my youthful appearance, and even my friends say that no one will intrust their cases to a boy. I know that I have got the making of a man in me, and only want an opportunity to show it.
“People seem to think that I ought to have a beard on my face; but it is almost as smooth as a baby’s. I see several advertisements in your paper for producing a moustache and a heavy beard in a short time. But they promise so much that I am afraid of being humbugged. Please tell me if those preparations are of any value; and if they are of no account what will increase the growth of hair on the face.”
A very youthful appearance maintained after the age of manhood has been reached may sometimes deceive people and lead to their giving its possessor, on first acquaintance, less credit for experience and judgment than is his due; but if his juvenility is only in his features, not in his character, they will soon learn their mistake. So far from regretting the slow advance of the marks of age, a young man has reason for gratitude because of their delay. The wrinkles and gray hairs will come in due time, and soon enough, too soon he may himself think when he has them in full supply; and to no purpose, other people may say, when they discover that though the physical evidences of age are manifest enough in him, his words and acts prove that he has sat in the school of experience without learning its lessons.	x
- But it is natural that a young man should want to grow
a beard and to see his lip adorned with a handsome moustache, and we cannot much blame him if he mourns in secret his inability to raise the crop. Beard and moustaches set off the manly countenance wonderfully, though some individuals of bad taste shave one or the other or both away, or trim them so that they bear about as much likeness to the symmetry and harmony of nature as one of the conventionally shaped trees of the old gardeners to a graceful elm whose swaying lines delight the eye. The odious mutton-chop whiskers, which violate all the laws of beauty and make a man look like a disfigured Scotch terrier, are happily no longer in vogue, and, the Prince of Wales setting the fashion, neatly tended beards are frequent. The hideous chin whiskers, an American extension of the Mephistophelian goatee, are still too common, and are always a conspicuous sign of ill taste in their pos. sessor. Barbers, indeed, are apt to play the mischief with the masculine face by trying to give an artificial appearance to the growth of the hair on it. It is rare to find among them a man who is a true and faultless artist. Just now some of our young men, who find their models in England, have a fashion of shaving the whole face except the upper lip and little tufts of hair at the tips of the ears. This is better than carving out a bristly and awkard set of whiskers, and may properly be followed when a handsome beard cannot be cultivated, though always that should be the first aim.
But how shall a young man proceed on whose face the hair is laggard in its growth, so that he can raise neither beard nor whiskers, and cannot get even more than a shade of down on his lip ? He must wait in patience for the crop to come. There is really nothing else for him to do. He has no reason to reproach himself for the delay, for he can’t help it, and it is foolish to waste sorrow on things beyond your reach. His wishing for a beard and moustache will not bring them, and his constant watching to welcome their approach may make the time of their coming seem longer than it is. And it is not worth while to lay out money in the effort to force them to grow. We have never tried any of the unguents and preparations advertised as able to produce the result, and do not know how they work; but we advise young men am :.ous for beards and moustaches to let nature alone. The hair will come in due time without the aid of nostrums, and it is very doubtful whether they will materially assist its growth. If you don’t think anything about the matter, but keep to work improving yourself otherwise, when the beard does appear your face will be more fit to wear such a badge of manhood. Sometimes the stalk is heavy and strong while the wheat is poor and shrivelled.
In fine, let our North Carolina friend enrich the soil inside of his head rather than try to force a growth outside. In that way he may gain respect for his legal advice, and people will care little whether he has a beard or not. He need not be afraid that he won’t look like a man when he has really made a man of himself.
—“ Catholics have not the means of furnishing free educational facilities, but some young men and women—whether under false pretense we must not judge—do manage to receive an education that gives them a fine start in the world, without any cost to themselves. They are not generally the'Tnost grateful people either, for what was done for them, but would like to be set up in business, too, and abuse Catholics for not paying them or patronizing them. They feel 'very independent, somehow or other.”—Catholic Columbian.
■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	669
* ■ ~ - ” ■ . - - ...
?	The University of California.
The students of the State University, or at least some of them, seem bent on earning a rather unenviable reputation. Their escapades in Berkley and Oakland have, on more than one occasion, called for the interference of the police. \	We now learn from a morning contemporary that, on ac-
r	count of the recent publication of a “ bogus ” article of a
vile character, President Le Conte and the faculty have under consideration the expulsion of thirty-two sophomores. These amiable young gentlemen, in a weak at-p	tempt at being witty, became vulgarly personal and dis-
*	gustingly obscene, and accordingly concocted and distrib-
uted such a document as the University authorities feel to be a disgrace to all concerned. The whole class of ’81 backs up the guilty offenders, and has the brazen effrontery to defy the faculty—all of which indicates a peculiar state of morals and discipline. We may be thankful that in no Catholic college in the country is there a parallel for such a lamentable condition of affairs as appears to prevail in the petted University of California.”—Monitor, San Francisco, Gal.
Art, Music and Literature.
—The publication of a new work by Father Curci is announced.
—An entirely new story, by Lady Georgiana Fullerton, will shortly appear in the Ave Maria, for which periodical it was written.
—Messrs. Burns & Oates have in press a volume of es-55 says by Dr. W. G. Ward, reprinted from the Dublin Review, and entitled “ Essays on Devotional and Scriptural Subjects.”
—Meissonier as well as Gerome has taken to sculpture. He has modelled a spirited group in wax, of a mounted trumpeter blowing his trumpet, and it is to be cut in bronze.
—Mgr. Capel, it is said, has had an offer to go on a lecturing tour through the United States, during which he will preach in aid of his pet scheme of higher Catholic education.
—The preparation of the life of the late Dr. Livingstone, which, it has been announced, is to appear under the auspices of his family, has been entrusted to Prof. Blaikie, of Edinburg, the Professor of Divinity in the new college.
—The Library Hall of Woodstock College, Maryland, is one of the finest in the United States. The ceiling is artistically frescoed, and on it is represented the solar system, forming not merely an artistic decoration, but a reliable astronomical chart.
—The Exhibition Hall of Santa Clara College will comfortably accommodate 3,000 spectators. The stage is 38 3 feet deep, the opening of the proscenium 34 feet wide. It possesses fourteen sets of scenery, and a large assortment of ancient and modern costumes. •
—A concert will be given in McCormick Hall in Chi chago, to-night for the benefit of Notre Dame University-tendered by the former students of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s. Prof. Benj. Owens, formerly of Laporte, is musical director.—South Bend Tribune of June 28.
—The author of the music of the well-known song “Your Mission,” is Mr. S. M. Grannis, who doesn’t “know one note from another.” He is also the author of the old song “ Do they miss me at home ? ” He is a good singer, however, has given concerts for a great many years, and is still at it.	'
—Goshen, Ind., has a musical prodigy in the person of Miss Madge Wickham, daughter of Dr. W. W. Wickham. She is now under the charge of Theodore Thomas, at Cincinnati, who proffers his services gratis to superintend her. musical education, and predicts that she will become a star of the first magnitude.
—“ Eloquence is the language of nature, and cannot be learned in the schools; the passions are powerful pleaders, and their very silence, like that of Garrick, goes directly to the soul; but rhetoric is the creature of art, which he who feels least will most excel in; it is the quackery of eloquence, and deals in nostroms, not in cures’”—The Avedon.
—On Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday of this week a meeting of the most prominent music teachers from all parts of the United States will be held in Cincinnati. Able essays and the best of music will be delivered, including two concerts by Thomas’s orchestra and one organ concert in Music Hall. Such a body has never convened in this country.
—An excellent etching of Hans Mackart’s celebrated picture, “The Entry of Charles V into Antwerp,” by A D. Lalouze, is furnished to subscribers to the volume of D'Art for this year. The etching is large size, about 30x15,‘ and is printed on heavy toned paper. It is worthy a place in any portfolio. J. W. Bouton, 706 Broadway, is the Ameri-can agent for L'Art.
—The stone work on the main tower of the new college building, Georgetown, D. C., is nearly completed. The tower is one hundred and ninety-one feet high, and an additional structure of wood will surmount the more solid portion. When finished and ready for the reception of visitors, the view presented from the tower will be one of the finest obtainable in the District.
—A society of professional musicians has been organized in Chicago, having for its object the production of a series of orchestral concerts each year. It is also proposed to give triennial festivals. Louis Falk, H. C. Eddy, W. S. B. Matthews, J. A. Creswold, C. A. Havens and other prominent and accomplished musicians are among the members. It is called the Philharmonic Society.
—Sketches of the life of Mgr. de Mazenod, Bishop of Marseilles and founder of the Society of the Oblates of Mary Immaculate, are preparing for immediate publication, in two octavo volumes, by the Rev. Robert Cooke, O. M. I. The work will comprise some curious particulars of the missionary labors of the Society in various parts of the world, more particularly in the Hudson’s Bay Territory and the Red River Settlement.
—The twenty-one New England colleges graduate this year upward of 800 Bachelors of Arts or Sciences, Harvard having, in round numbers, 200, Yale 180, Amherst 75, Dartmouth 70, Brown 50, and Wesleyan and Williams 40 each. Eighteen women are enrolled in the senior classes of the six institutions where coeducation prevails, Boston University, whose graduation exercises have just passed, leading the list with ten; Wesleyan University has two, and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology one.
—David Johnson has just completed a little gem of a landscape for the album of an English gentleman of wealth and taste who is collecting American works. The view represented is a bit of Lake George, trees in the foreground, a rugged mountain heaving upward toward the cloud-strewn sky above the calm water, and a boat with two or three figures balancing on the right the foliage on. the left. The subject is simple and the picture small, but the coloring is delicious and the atmosphere almost palpable in its warmth and dewy freshness.—American Art Journal.
—Our readers know that the great University of Munich is presided over by Dr. Dollinger, who bears the high-sounding title of Rector Magnificus. It is not to be presumed that the university is not Catholic. When Prof. Hergenrother was proclaimed Cardinal all the professors of that institution, save and alone poor Dollinger and Friederich, united in an address to the new Cardinal, testifying their high esteem for him personally and their joy at his elevation. The testimonial breathes the most ardent attachment to the Sovereign Pontiff and the Holy See.—Western Watchman.
—The identical pastoral ring of St. Francis de Sales, worn by him when he wrote his “ Introduction to a Devout Life,” has lately been discovered. This precious relic, of which the gem is lost, is now in possession of a pious family named Goethals. In place of the lost gem a miniature portrait, given by the illustrious Prelate to one
1
670
THE NOTRE DAME . SCHOLASTIC.
of liia relatives, has been encased in the ring. This double relic was presented by a member of the De Sales family to Monsignor Hirn, Bishop of Tournai, on the occasion of his visit to Rome in 1814, who bequeathed it in his last wiil to Miss Goethals in remembrance of her services to religion.
—The Rev. W. H. Platt, of San Francisco, Cal., has published a little volume entitled “After Death—What?” His object is to defend the doctrine of future rewards and punishments by arguments drawn from science and philosophy. The volume embraces the substance of the three lectures formerly delivered in the author’s own church. The discussion is presented in the form of a dialogue between a skeptical scientist and a Christian preacher. The skeptical argument from science is mainly given in the words of several popular writers, to which the preacher replies with acuteness and force. The work occupies a little over 200 pages, and will be read with interest and profit. (“After Death—What? or, Hell and Salvation Considered in the light of Science and Philosophy.” San Francisco: A L. Bancroft & Co.)—Chicago Tribune.
—Dull boys, don’t be discouraged. Slow growth is often sure growth. Some minds are like Norwegian pines. They are slow in growth; but they are striking their roots deep. Some of the greatest men have been dull boys. Dryden and Swift were dull as boys; so was Goldsmith, so was Gibbon, so was Sir Walter Scott. Napoleon, at school, had so much difficulty in learning his Latin that the master said it would need a gimlet to get a word into his head. Douglas Jerrold was so backward in his boyhood that at nine he was scarcely able to read. Isaac Barrow, one of the smartest ministers the Church of England ever produced, was so impenetrably stupid in his early years that his fattier more than once said that if God took away any of his children he hoped it would be Isaac, as he feared he would never be fit for anything in this world. Yet that boy was the genius of the family.
—Some men use words as riflemen use bullets. They say but little. The few words go right to the mark. They let you talk, and guide your face and eyes on and on, till what you say can be answered in a word or two, and then they launch out a sentence, pierce the matter to the quick, and are done. Your conversation falls into their minds as a river in a deep chasm, and is lost from sight by its depth and darkness. They will sometimes surprise you with a few words that go to the mark like a gunshot, and then they are silent again as if they were reloading. Such men are safe counsellors and true friends, where they profess to be such. To them truth is more valuable than gold, while pretention is too gaudy to deceive them. Words without point to them are like titles without merit, only betraying the weakness of the blind dupes who are ever used to forward other men’ schemes.
—A noticeable feature of the literature to-day is the prevalence—one might say the universality—of metrical composition. Every cross-road has its bard, and quite likely some thousands of our young men and maidens are essaying to write poetry, who, for the most part, are lamentably deficient in the King’s English, and whose efforts are suggestive of the couplets in nursery rhymes, though lacking the point and piquancy of Mother Goose. But although poetry of the hand-organ sort, ground to order by love-lorn misses, or bardlings in incipient manhood, fills the pages of the newspapers, it is seldom that one meets with a poem that has the pith and accent of the divine art. Even our leading monthlies, which it would be supposed might select a garniture of verse for their more solid pages, not infrequently give us verses only equalled in the most careless newspapers.—Chicago Tribune.
—Messrs. Estes & Lauriat, of Boston, will publish in the fall an authorized translation of M. Maxime Lalanne’s capital “Treaties on Etching.” According to Mr. Ham-erton’s dictum, M. Lalanne is the best French etcher of the present day, and his treatise on his favorite art is certainly the brightest and clearest exposition ever written of the processes involved in it. The book is illustrated by ten plates etched by M. Lalanne, which will be coveted for their own sake by all lovers of the art. The plates for the American edition have been printed in Paris, so that they will be equal in every respect to those in the French
edition. The translation will be made by Mr. S. R. Koe-teler, the editor of the forthcoming “American Art Review,” who will also add an introductory chapter on the simplest elements of etching for the benefit of amateurs, who may prefer to overcome the first technical difficulties before plunging in medias res with M. Lalanne.
—The London correspondent of the New York Tribune writes: “ The Earl of Carnarvon’s name is now to be added to the considerable list of English Peers who have employed their political leisure in literary work. Mr. Murray has just published his translation of ‘The Agamemnon ’ of JEschylus. That Lord Carnarvon is an accomplished scholar has long been known, not only to his friends, but to whoever has met him in private and listened to his varied and often brilliant talk on themes remote from those topics of the day which give such dry monotony to the greater part of the dinner-table conversation that goes on in a society which almost prides itself on its frivolousness and its contempt for whatever is not of to-day. Mr. Browning not long since gave us a translation of‘The Agamemnon,’ bearing every mark of exact scholarship and of almost equal mastery in the two languages. But he made no attempt to popularize his author. His version was avowedly an experiment; meant to show how far it was possible to go in the direction of assimilating the idioms and even the verbal order of Greek and English. It needs to be read with as much attention as the Greek. Lord Carnarvon has aimed at producing such an Agamemnon as English readers, unlearned in the original, may understand and enjoy.”
Scientific Notes.
—One of the new Cardinals, Archbishop Haynald, of Kalocsa, in Hungary, is an eminent botanist.
—It is said that a decoction made of mosses taken from oak or hickory trees, applied internally and externally is a sure cure for rattlesnake bite.
—At six o’clock on the morning of June the 30th, pumping began at the great Sutro mining tunnel in Nevada. As an engineering work, the success surpassed all expectations. In eight hours the water in the long drowned-out mines was lowered one hundred feet. A brilliant celebration in the evening followed. The work of constructing the tunnel has been going on for ten years, night and day, and has cost §6,000,000.
—Archaeological excavations are now going on at An-dernach near the Rhine, and have so far been very successful, under the supervision of Mr. Koenen of Neuss. Several tombs have been laid open, some showing that the bodies had received a regular burial, whilst others proved a cremation. Near these skeletons have been found veiy rare articles, such as shoulderclasps and buckles richly gilt, several earthen vessels, costly glass cups, and two pieces of copper coin from the time of the Emperor Val-entinian I. One of the tombs held a richly ornamented vase, bearing the ashes of a dead man, two Roman pieces of coin from the time of Augustus, and four splendid breastpins. Near this funeral vase stood three other splendidly adorned vessels, a dish of scarlet clay (terra sigillata) filled with the remnants of a’ meal of fowl, and, what is still more remarkable, a complete cooking apparatus with an iron saucepan. The excavations are being contiued in a southern direction.
—Father Perignon, the Inventor of Champagne. —In 1688 a monk named Perignon was made “ cellarer ” of the Benedictine Abbey at Hautvillers, a little hamlet on the banks of the Marne, about five miles distant from Eper-nay. No man was ever better fitted for the post he held (says the Academy), and discovery after discovery rewarded his zealous toil. He was the first to blend the produce of one vineyard with that of another; to find out that a white wine could be made from the blackest grapes, which would keep good instead of degenerating like that obtained from white ones; and to substitute cork as a stopper for a bottle instead of flax dipped in oil, which had hitherto been used. Nor was this all, for just at the close of the seventeenth century he achieved his final triumph of
$
7
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
671
making an effervescent wine. Why it sparkled he did not know, for the connection between sugar and carbonic acid was as yet undreamt of; but the secret soon spread over the country, until in 1878 the official return of the manufacturers’ stock in the champagne district, as given by the Chamber of Commerce at Rheims, is 70,183,163 bottles.
—A Discovery nr Grape Culture.—A letter to the Secretary of the Ohio Horticultural Society from W. W. {	Scarborough of Woodburn, a suburb of Cincinnati says:
’	“I have received your favor, inquiring about the results
of the new method of protecting grapes from disease, etc., by enclosing the bunches in paper bags. Hearing in 1876, that my neighbor, Mr. Gottlieb Myers, had in that year tried successfully this experiment, early in the summer of p	1877, just after the blossoming had been accomplished
r	and the young grapes fully set, I enclosed in paper bags
2,500 bunches, chiefly Concords and Catawbas, and some few bunches of Delaware, Iona and Isabella, and gathered in the fall 2,450 bunches therefrom of perfect and magnifi cent fruit. Of the fruit that year not bagged there were’ probably one half destroyed by rot, with a further loss by mildew, birds and insects.
“This year I had 7,500 bunches inclosed in bags, with substantially the same result to the kinds or varieties of grapes before mentioned. Some 200 bunches of the Hartford Prolific variety did not do as well as the other varieties. There was less rot this year in our open vineyards than for many years past, but yet there was a disease, al-1	though diminished, and the same loss by birds and insects
to the unprotected bunches, wnich have heretofore existed.
“ The bag used is the common paper pasted bag used by the grocers, made of yellow Manilla paper, and six inches wide, by nine inches long or deep, and fastened to the bunch by two or three pins. These bags (or most of them), if made of good quality of paper, will last for two year’s use, as will the pins also be good for the second years’ use, if of good quality.
®	“The quality of the fruit is improved by its isolation in
" the bag—it is richer in saccharine matter, and of higher flavor. The cost of bags, pins and labor is about one-third of a cent per bag on the small scale of my experiments. The result of the experiments has confirmed the theory which I have held, that the rot is caused by the puncture of the grape by some minute insect, just at the time when it becomes of full size, and when covered by the night dew or the moisture of a foggy night or morning.”—Cincinnati Gazette.
l.	Books and Periodicals.
।	—The Musical Recard of Boston should be in the hands
'	of every musician.
।	—The 0cecilia is now on the Scholastic exchange list
.	and we are delighted accordingly.
—We have received Deharbe’s shorter Catechism of the Catholic religion, translated from the German, revised and corrected by an American ecclesiastic. Such a work *	should need only an announcement. It is for sale by the
f	Catholic Publication Society.
—The Saturday Evening Herald of Chicago is an excellent society paper, giving particular attention to the drama, opera, and other amusements, also correspondence ■	from watering places, social gossip, etc. Its tone is high,
and its general make up elegant.
।	—Church's Musical Visitor for July is a choice number.
( .	It has a full-page illustration, being portraits of the.success-
<	ful Convention directors and song composers of America.
The Visitor should be asked to “stay”—or at least to “ call ’’ once a month—by every lover of music.
An Introductory History of the United States. For the ’	Use of Schools. Arranged on the Catechetical Plan. Third
Edition. New York : The Catholic Publication Society. 1879. This is an excellent history of the United States for young persons. It is of 144 pages, well printed on supersized and super-calendered paper, and with numerous fine engravings. We observe with pleasure that the correct pronunciation of proper names is indicated whenever necessary.
—We have received the first number of the KeReymlle Journal, published at Keileyville, Charlotte Co., Va., and devoted to the advancement of the Irish Catholic Benevolent Union Colony of that place. A portrait of Hon. A. M. Keiley, President of the Union and patron of the colony, adorns the first page of the Journal. The paper contains an interesting account of the colony, which is completely successful. While western colonization is justly attracting so much attention, it might be well to think also of this flourishing colony in the delightful regions of the South.
—The August number of The Harp will contain a graphic description of the Grand Reunion of the Alumni of the College of Ottawa, on the 17th and 18th of June; the conferring of the title and insignia of Doctor of Divinity, by favor of Leo XIII, on the Very Rev. President, Father Tabaret; the presentation of testimonial and address; the eloquent discourses of Messrs. Curran and Foran, together with a splendid cut of the college buildings and a faithful portrait of Dr. Tabaret. Old students and friends of the College should order in advance copies of this interesting number, to preserve as a souvenir of the reunion.
Moondyne: A Story from the Under-World. By John Boyle O’Reilly. Boston: The Pilot Publishing Company. 1879. This story has already appeared in the Pilot during the past year and is now sent out in this permanent form. It is a finely printed volume, on toned paper, and elegantly bound; and is in this respect a credit to the Pilot publishing company. The story is of convict life in Australia, and is told in an admirable manner by Mr. O’Reilly, who shows himself as great a master of prose as he is of verse. The inverted order of things in this “Under-World” is strikingly illustrated in this opening sentence of the second chapter, “ It was a scorching day in mid-summer—a few days before Christmas.”
—Summer Reading that is Safe and Pleasant.— Now, that our Catholic boys and girls are home for the vacation, and that hundreds of older people take their annual summer relaxation, the question, “Where shall we get pleasant and safe reading?” again presents itself. 'Die Catholic press has already explained the high claims to Catholic support possessed by the novels of The Vatican Library series. There are now ready forty of these books, ranging in price from five cents to twenty-five cents, and they supply this want of pleasant Catholic reading for summer holidays in the woods or by the seaside. A descriptive catalogue will be sent to any person, who sends a request by postal card, to Hickey <k Co., The Vatican Library, 11 Barclay Street, New York, N. Y.
—A Treatise on the Horse and his Diseases, by J. B. Kendall, M. D., of Enosburgh Falls, Vermont, is an excel lent work of its kind, and one which cannot be too highly recommended to those interested in the care of horses. Dr. Wm. H. Hall of Canandaigua, N. Y., writing to the author under date of Dec. 3d, 1878, says of it: “Ihave bought books from England that I paid five and ten dollars for, which I do not like as well as I do yours. It is different from anything I ever saw.” The Editor of the “ Western Sportsman and Live Stock News,” under date of Jan. 4th, 1879, says of it: “ It is a book that every owner of a horse should have, and no breeder of horses can afford to do without it. It has 35 engravings illustrating positions assumed by sick horses, and gives treatment of diseases in such plain and comprehensive language as to be readily understood by any one of ordinary intelligence. The price is only 25 cents, but we would not exchange it for any book on the horse and his diseases that we have ever seen, and we have read some books of the kind that cost ten dollars. It contains a large number of recipes, any one of which is worth, double the price of the work.” Orders addressed to the author of this excellent manual will, we understand, receive prompt attention.
—Many people who boast of being very “ plain ” and “ blunt ” are merely coarse and boorish. Such persons are constantly inflicting wounds which neither time nor medicine can ever heal.
672
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
«

Notre Dame, July 5, 1879.
Letter from Cardinal Simeoni.
It is not necessary to call the attention of our readers to this unsolicited fatherly epistle from the Cardinal Prefect of the Propaganda to Very Rev. Father Sorin. The fact that such a letter has been written shows the interest which our beloved Alma Mater has excited in the Holy City. It should, we think, inspire the friends of Notre Dame everywhere with renewed interest in her restoration. We may say in this connection, that this is not the only indication received from those near the person of the Holy J Father of the deep interest taken in Rome in the welfare of this institution. By the same mail, Very Rev. Father General received a letter from another Cardinal, expressing his sympathies and encouragement. The letter is however, too personal for publication.
Very Rev. Father:—From your Procurator residing in Rome I have learned with deep regret that on the 23d of April last the University of Notre Dame, Ind., United States of America, was destroyed by fire, the church, however, being saved. I know well that it must have been a great trial for you to see a work that cost you so much labor thus destroyed in a few short hours. Besides the material loss sustained, there is to be deplored the great loss that Christian education has suffered in the destruction of an institution that gave such bright hopes to the Catholic Church. But since it has pleased Almighty God thus to visit you and your Congregation, in order that you might not forget your dependence on Him, you should not lose courage; but, on the contrary, begin anew, with the means which Divine Providence will not fail to put in your hands, a work which, by reason of the very calamity which which has befallen you, will in the end prove more meritorious to you and more advantageous to religion. Meanwhile I pray God to preserve and help you.
From the Propaganda, Rome, June 2d, 1879.
Your Reverence’s most affectionate,
Giovanni Card. Simeoni, Prefect.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, Sup-Gen. of the Cong, of the Holy Cross.
The Engraving.
The engraving of the new College building has arrived and will be sent out in the Scholastic next week. We shall also print next week a full and detailed description of the building, much more complete than we were able to give in the hurried outline which we published a few weeks ago. Our readers will then have all that writing and picture can do to enable them to form an idea of the new Notre Dame. If these do not satisfy they must come and use their own eyes,—now, to see the work so happily going on, and next September to see the work completed.
The engraving—from the design of Mr. W. J. Edbrooke, the architect, is the work of Messrs. Shober & Carque-ville, Chicago, and does them much credit.
Reduction in the Rates of Tuition.
As many of our readers will soon be turning their thoughts towards the coming scholastic year, and, as we trust, inviting their young friends to accompany them as
students to Notre Dame at the opening next September, we have thought it well to refer to the reduction which has been made in the cost of board and tuition. We therefore append the following note, which explains itself: it is taken from the proofs of the new Catalogue, which is now in preparation:
“The expenses for tuition, board, etc., have been reduced from $150 to $125 per session. We wish to state that this reduction was decided upon before the fire, at a time when our prospects were the brightest, and when we believed we could make the reduction with advantage to our patrons and without injury to ourselves. Since the fire, we have considered, in view of our great losses, whether we should be able to receive students at $125 per session, but have finally concluded to trust to the generosity of our patrons to increase the attendance of students so that we shall not suffer by the redaction. The charge therefore for tuition, board, etc., will in future be only $125 per session, or $250 per scholastic year.
“We would here remind our friends that this sum is at the rate of but six dollars per week—scarcely more than the price for board, rooms, etc., in good houses. It will be found that a student attending even a college where tuition is free, but who has to pay for his board, rooms, etc., in a private family, will be at greater expense for his education than at Notre Dame. On account of our retired location the incidental expenses here are very few, and, as everyone knows who has had experience, it is incidentals that make a college course expensive. We feel therefore that we are justified in the claim that nowhere can a student receive a complete education with so little outlay as at Notre Dame.”
The Third. Story.
But for the patriotic fervor which will not let any American forget “ the Day we Celebrate,” the third story would now be completed and a good beginning made on the fourth. Work has advanced with great rapidity for the last week, and it is the general belief that by next Saturday night the last brick will be laid on the main walls.
It seems that some of our friends cannot understand that such progress has been made in the work of rebuilding. If they were here- they would have no difficulty in understanding it. There are prehaps 300 men here and elsewhere working solely on these buildings. The masons and their help are but a small part of the force. Carpenters have every piece of timber waiting as soon as the walls are ready; stone dressers and workers in galvanized iron in Chicago have their carloads at the station here before the new story is reached; the factories in South Bend have the door and window frames on the ground looking up for their places on the walls; carloads of lime arrive every day;- brick kills in South Bend and Bertrand are connected with the building by a constant line of teams,—but these are not enough, and the cars are pressed into service to bring brick from more distant places. By the way, it is interesting to see how many varieties of brick are packed into the interior walls; not only the brick of the old College, but every color of new brick, from the pale Milwaukee to dark-red pressed brick, hand-made and machine-made. The face-brick is, however, of a uniform light cream color. To raise all this material, three double elevators worked by horse-power are in constant use, besides numerous pulleys worked by hand to lift iron
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. 1	6?3
pillars, joists, etc., to tlieir place. Meanwhile slaters are getting out material to be ready to lay the roof at the earliest time possible. Nor are these all the workmen employed, but we have perhaps mentioned enough to let our readers know how it is that the work has advanced so rapidly, and why it is that the utmost confidence may be
' had that the building will be ready on the first Tuesday of September. Our readers will further bear in mind that it is the College part of the building that will be first completed—dormitories, study-hall, and class-rooms will be roofed, finished and dried long before the front extension or other less needed parts will be completed. Have no fear but all things will be ready.
I
Vacation Reading. -
A few days ago we happened to get a glimpse of a set or part of a set of the Vatican Library series of cheap Catholic publications, and the books as they lay piled around the table in beautiful blue cloth binding were a feast to the eyes. We were told the price of the lot, and were much astonished that such books and in such exquisite binding could be sold at so lojv a price. We have read some of the books of the series, and must compliment the Chevalier Hickey on his excellent taste in their selection. “Fabiola,” Cardinal Wiseman’s beautiful story—the first of the Vatican Library series—is known to everybody, or should be, for it has long been a favorite with young and old; “ Fleurange ” we have not read; but anything from the pen of Mrs. Craven, the gifted sister of the no less gifted Count de la Ferronays, must be good; the story of “Andrew the Weaver ” we read years ago, and a more excellent story could not be given into the hands of a boy or girl—they will like it amazingly, as will also the older folk who have not yet had the pleasure of reading it; “ Dion and the Sybils ” is a wonderful book—and we feel sure that when young folk get as far as the taming of the Sejan steed by young Paulus, one of the principal heroes of the story, they would not exchange the book for the most exciting novel that ever was written,—this book gives most delightful vacation reading, and we hope our young friends will at once procure a copy of it—the price is but 25 cents, in paper cover, although when first published in England, some years ago, it sold at a guinea—about §5.25 a copy—being elegantly brought out, and even at this high price the edition was soon exhausted. Chevalier Hickey is doing a great good work in the publication of the Vatican Library series, and we hope all who love good reading will not fail to send for some or all of his books. In these days of trashy reading we can hardly imagine a better work than the publication of this series. His Catholic Review has made a name and became famous at home and abroad as an excellent periodical, but we think the great event o&Chevalier Hickey’s business life was the inception of the Vatican Library series of cheap Catholic publications. The books we saw were ordered bound from the publisher by a resident of Notre Dame; they cost only a few dollars—four or five, if we remember rightly—and formed in themselves a little library of entertaining reading.	____________
—All of Edison’s children go to bed with electric lamps and have to say their prayers in the phonograph. Then in the morning Mrs. Edison investigates and finds out if they were all up to the mark.
Iiocal Items.	' j
------
—Prof. T. A. Dailey is writing some capital letters from 1 ----- I Elkhart to the South Bend Sunday News.---------------------d
—The directors of the Library acknowledge the receipt of thirty-four volumes of Public Documents from Senator McDonald.
—An umbrella, almost new, is missing. Anybody, who	•
may happen to have found such an umbrella, not belonging to himself, is requested to leave the same at our office.
—The trough or box immediately under the Minims’
pump, about 60 or 80 feet from the Infirmary building, was •	.
partly burned by the great fire. It remained under the pump till a day or two ago, when some one knocked it in pieces.	. *
V—The Sisters of the Holy Cross, whose Mother House is	;
at Notre Dame, Ind., have just opened a house of health	j
and home for convalescents and invalids in one of the most	■ i
delightful suburbs of Philadelphia, which was blessed by	;
Archbishop Wood, June 9.—Catholic Advocate.	'
—The Scholastic brings intelligence of the rapid re-	i
building of Notre Dame. How proud will the benefactor	’
feel, to say, in after-years, that he assisted in erecting such	:
a grand institution! The first day of September will be a grand period in the history of Notre Dame.—Catholic
Columbian.
—The closing exercises of the Catholic school in this city on Friday last were of the most interesting and satisfactory character. The scholars as a general thing showed remarkable progress in their various studies. The entire programme of exercises was highly creditable to both scholars and teacher.—NUes Democrat.	'
—The twenty-fourth Annual Commencement Exercises ' at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind., promise to. be very pretty. The programme sent us clearly indicates the '	.
high standard demanded of the scholars. Mother Mary of	•
St. Angela, the Superior, may well feel gratified at the sue-cess attending her efforts to make St. Mary’s one of the
best schools in the country.—Moore's Rural New-Yorker.	\
—From the report of the annual examination of the
Cathedral schools, Vincennes, which we find published	. 1
in the Weekly Sun of that city, it would seem that the	-
schools are already in a very flourishing condition. Al-	:
though the names of those whose notes were lower than	„ i
90 were not published, the list takes up more than half a column of the paper. Bros. Daniel and Felix have evidently spared no pains in working their schools up to a	»
good standing.	.
—That good results flow from the perusal of sound
Catholic literature finds a notable illustration in the fact	,
that Lord Montague recently became a Catholic after read-	;
ing “The Battle of Connemara,” a charming Catholic	J '
story written by Grace Ramsay, and published in the Ave
Maria two or three years ago.—N Y. Catholic. A commu-	‘
nication to the San Francisco Monitor, a week or two ago, announced that the reading of a story republished in that	:
paper from the first volume of the Ave Maria caused a negligent Catholic to reform his life—a veritable conversion also. The story is entitled “ Ave Maria, Refugium Pecca-	>
torum, Ora pro me." By some oversight likely the Moni-	■
tor neglected to give the Ave Maria credit for the story, although it, with many others, was written for the latter	’
periodical by the talented author, Rev. J. M. J. Graham.	!
—The grand, imposing, and impressive ceremonies of	:
the blessing of the new bell took place at St. Patrick’s .
Church yesterday afternoon. The ceremonies were performed by the Very Rev. Father Sorin, of Notre Dame.	■
The Rev. P. P. Cooney preached a most impressive sermon, in which he explained the meaning of the ceremonies, and	>,
the use of the church bell. The pastor spoke for a few '	1
minutes in German. The church was filled to repletion.	i
There were present with their banners, regalias, and the '	‘
American flag, the stars and stripes, that protect every	j
American citizen in the free exercises of his religion, five societies, viz.: St. Joseph’s Total Abstinence and Benevolent Society of St. Patrick’s Church, it counts about seventy members; St Joseph’s Benevolent Society of St Joseph’s Church 4th Ward, it has about sixty-five members; St Stanislaus Kostka’s Society, and St Casimir’s Society,
674
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
both belong to the Polish Church, and claim ninety members each. Finally St. John’s Catholic Benevolent Society, German, of St. Patrick’s Church. This society is newly established by those members of St. Patrick’s congregation that speak the German language. These societies made so pleasing an impression on the Very Rev. Father Sorin that he hereby publicly invites them to be present at the blessing of the large bell at the College.— South Bend Tribune.
Personal.
—J. McCall, of ’72, is thriving in Detroit, Mich.
—J. Devine, J. Brogan, J. Rabbett and A, Greening are .. all flourishing at Dexter, Mich.
—F. Wittlesburger, of ’73, is in business with his father on Michigan Avenue, Detroit.
—Edward Riopelle, of ’75, is engaged in the drug busion Grand River Avenue, Detroit.
—Master C. and T. Van Mourick are well, and intend to return with .their younger brother next September.
—F. L. Langan, of ’69 and ’78, is married, and is now assistant postmaster at Lima, Ohio, being an exceedingly capable and popular officer.
—We acknowledge the receipt of St. Louis papers from Mr. J. R. Kelly, containing full and interesting accounts of the golden jubilee of the St. Louis University.
—Hon. John D. McCormick, of ’73, is President of the Ewing Campaign Club of Lancaster, Ohio. Mr. McCormick was elected Mayor of Lancaster two years ago.
—Master R. Costello, formerly a Minim here, was very sorry to hear of the fire. He desired to be remembered to all his young friends and will help to swell their ranks in September.
—Bishop Spalding of Peoria delivered the oration at the golden jubilee of the St. Louis University, and the Pope sent a special Brief and his benediction to the zealous Fathers. It was indeed a golden day.
—Our excellent friend, Rev. P. P. Cooney, C. S. C., Miss. Ap., is taking a much-needed rest at Notre Dame, after months of almost constant labor in the missionary field. That he has threatened to write a book we can authoritatively deny. It is exceedingly gratifying to be able to state that the hot weather is in no wise deleterious to Father Cooney’s health.
—The genial Director of the Musical Department, who lately returned from a visit to old-time friends in the Wabash Valley, is in excellent health and spirits. His deed of daring on the occasion of the great fire last April is still talked of with undiminished enthusiasm by admiring friends. The thirty—th anniversary of his birthday occurs on the 13th inst. Ad multos annos I
—The Niagara Index comes to us this week with two supplements, one of the Commencement and the other a memorial of the late Father Rice, President of the Seminary. The affection shown for the memory of the saintly priest is most touching, and the Scholastic desires to unite its sympathies with those of the friends of this accomplished and devoted clergyman.
Letters, etc.
. Academy of the Sacred Heart, Salem, Oregon, June 22, ’79.
To the Editor of the “ Notre Dame Scholastic.’’
Sir:—Enclosed please find our subscription to the Scholastic for the past year.
We all fully sympathize in the great loss which Notre Dame has recently sustained. We knew but little, if anything, of it personally, but we were nevertheless proud of its enlightened progressive spirit, and rejoiced that Catholicity could claim such a noble institution as her chosen own. With thousands of your friends, we hope and pray that Notre Dame University will soon again raise its head, even more loftily than before.
Yours very respectfully,	.
Sb. M. of the Assumption, Superior.
Des Moines, Iowa, June 22,1879. Brother Ildefonsus, Notre Dame, Ind.:
Dear Brother :—Having the opportunity now, I thought I would write a few lines that I might know what you and the other friends at Notre Dame are doing. I will send two new students to Notre Dame next September, and probably more. I think I shall also go back myself.....
I am now clerking in a drug store, but will leave here next September in time for the opening of the new College. James Brice is clerking in a dry-goods store, and John Herrmann is working in a wholesale furniture store.
I must do some hard studying for the next two years, as that is all the time I can stay at Notre Dame. I receive the Scholastic every week, which keeps me well informed on your progress. Hoping to hear from you as soon as convenient, I remain,
Truly yours,	W. B. McGorrisk.
Middletown, Ohio, June 23,1879.
Dear Friend:—Although I expect to see you and dear Notre Dame ere a great while, yet for fear my expectations may not be realized I have concluded to pay for my Scholastic and at the same time lend a helping hand in an humble way to assist you out of your difficulties. To say that I am grieved at your loss falls short of expressing the sympathy I have felt and do feel for you. But sympathy, however good in its place, is not enough; something more substantial is needed. Please accept my small offering. Would it were larger!
Give my regards to all the friends, and please remember in your prayers, •	T. M. O’Leary.
Sing Sing, N. Y., June 25, ’79.
Very Rev. Father Corby:—..............lam greatly pleased to see our Alma Mater rising phoenixlike, and hope she may soon again be the pride of the West. I have a deep affection for Notre Dame, her precincts and professors, and which I now feel the greater when I am one thousand miles away from her. I would rejoice if I were only able, at present, to make some donation to her resurrection ; but I must endeavor to console myself with the adage “ Better late than never.” I hope before September to forward part of my donation. I am busy now arranging matters for the ensuing year, but I still remember Notre Dame. All I am, little though it be, and all I ever will be, shall be credited to Notre Dame. To-day, if the decree of Providence had not been otherwise, would Notre Dame rejoice with her students, and her love and affection would be reciprocated by them. But unsearchable are the ways of the Lord, and what to us may seem a dire calamity may be only the harbinger of greater good. Hoping such is the case, and that I may hear of Notre Dame more flourishing than ever,	*
I am your loving student of ’79,
L. Joseph Evers.
The Concert in Chicago.
In the Ghicago Times of Tuesday appears the following notice of the musical entertainment given on last Saturday evening in Chicago, under the auspices of former students of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s:
THE NOTRE DAME CONCERT.
The complimentary concert tendered by former students of Notre Dame College and St. Mary’s girls’ school in aid of the rebuilding fund took place on last evening at McCormick Hall.
Quite a large number of those whose early memories cluster around Notre Dame and St. Mary’s attended the concert on behalf of the building fund, and within McCormick Hall was a very good representation from all the Catholic churches in the city.
The programme as announced was fully carried out, and many of the numbers were encored, and deservedly, since they were well sung. The ladies and gentlemen who participated were Miss Addie Geiser, Miss Deadie Cavenor, Miss Annie Dennehy, Miss Rose Devoto, Mme. Salvotti, Miss Emily Plamondon, Miss Louise Henrotin, Miss Fannie E. Maloy, Mr. M. T. Corby, Mr. W. H. Smith, and others. The programme was a
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	675
—	U	J
good one, and selected to please the popular taste, and the affair proved in every way agreeable, and financially a success.
Commencement Day at St. Mary’s Academy.
[From the South Bend Sunday News^
The commencement festivities at St. Mary’s Academy, last Tuesday and Wednesday, were only marred by the oft-recurring thought that Notre Dame, that bright particular star, though still circling with the galaxy to which she rightly belongs, had intermitted the lustre of her light, providentially, it is true, but hopefully of new and uninterrupted brilliancy in the near future. Indeed, it seemed as if an air of gentle mourning pervaded the beautiful surroundings of the Academy, whose twenty-fourth annual Commencement has just now so happily passed.
The day was extremely lovely. The fervid warmth of the summer time was tempered by the shadows of floating clouds and such gentle zephyrs as add delight even to a fairy land, while the abundant flora delighted the senses with marvellous beauty and fragrance. The noble forest trees seemed to bow their-lofty heads as if in conscious recognition and welcome, as the long procession of visitors wound through the groves and threaded the walks that led to those pleasant halls where a feast of reason was spread by deft hands moved by gentle hearts.
The number of visitors was just what a selfish desire for comfort would have dictated, though somewhat less than usual, from the fact that the University failed to draw its usual quota, a circumstance much to be regretted as the misfortune of absence falls upon well-tried and devoted friends of those twin-sisters of learning, whose duties and destinies seem to be parallel if not identical.
Tuesday was given to greetings, the exercise of those graces with which refined culture adorns our social commerce, and the afternoon was spent in listening to the able essays and delightful music with which the graduating class emphasized the occasion. The uncommon ability displayed in those exercises can only be touched upon in a general way, want of space compelling us to forego the pleasure of a more full and well-deserved notice. Both the graduating pupils and the Alma Hater might well feel a glow of honest pride in the performances, without the imputation of arrogance or egotism.
The morn of Wednesday broke in beauty, giving presage of the bright day which followed, and which was worthy of the grand finale which closed a year’s toiling along the rugged paths of learning, and marked another point won in progress and virtue. The exercises were largely musical, in which the young ladies gave full scope to their harmonic instincts, and illustrated, as well, the high order of their attainments as the thorough excellence of the teaching and training to which they had been subjected. It would not be pleasant to particularize cases of superiority when so little was faulty; nor is it needful when in rendering Haydn’s great Oratorio of the Seasons the diverse accomplishments of the classes in solo and chorus were blended into a harmonic whole of uncommon excellence.
The more serious duties of the hour were most happily broken at the proper interval by the roguish antics and sweet pleasantries of Juniors and Minims in a mimic argument as to which affords the most enjoyment, city or country.
The venerable Father General, Very Rev. E. Sorin, conferred the medals and prizes and made distribution of the
floral crowns and honors, when Miss Russell of the Graduating Class pronounced a metrical Valedictory of great beauty and such power as to frequently bring tears to the eyes of pupils, teachers and spectators. A fitting close was the eloquent oration of Hon. Wm. J. Hynes, of Chicago. His kindly words of cheer and advice will long dwell in the minds and modify the conduct of his fair auditors and will not soon be forgotten by any.
And now the word is passed that dinner awaits the hungry crowd, and less classic scenes are sought where a atrue inwardness” welcomes “a feast of fat things.” Absorbed in social joys the hours fly swiftly until the lengthening shadows warn us that parting words must be spoken and the pleasant reunion for 1879 is of the past, though long to be remembered.
Another year of usefulness in the lives of the devoted Sisters of the Holy Cross 4s closed; another harvest of piety and progress rewards the intelligent labors of pupils and teachers; another jewel glistens in St. Mary’s typical crown.
[From the South Bend Tribune of June 25.]
The twenty-fourth Annual Commencement exercises at St. Mary’s Academy began yesterday afternoon at three o’clock, and were concluded this afternoon. The weather has been all that could be wished, brightening the ceremonies by almost cloudless and most beautiful days. Visitors, of whom there were many, thus had an opportunity of looking over the grounds and admiring the picturesque and beautiful so manifest at St. Mary’s. Notre Dame, too, although it has no Commencement, has come in for a full share of observation from visitors. In fact the burning down of the University building and its adjuncts has given an additional interest to the place and its surroundings, and there are few visitors to St. Mary’s who do not divide a portion of their brief visit with Notre Dame, to see what Very Rev. Father Sorin, President Corby and his co-workers are doing. All expressed their astonishment at the wonderful progress which has been made on the new University buildings, and conclude that there is no such word as “ fail ” in Notre Dame’s lexicon any more than there is in “ the bright lexicon of youth.” All say, as they turn their faces towards St. Mary’s, “ Notre Dame is doing nobly, and we will be here next year at this time to do honor to the new monument of her indefatigability and her enterprise.”
At St. Mary’s those who have not visited it for two summers are most gratifyingly surprised at the many wonderful improvements made in the grounds. Mother Angela, Superior, and her efficient associates have done all that natural taste and educated landscape gardening could do, combined with labor and money, to render the naturally lovely spot more lovely still. The broad carriageways, the promenades, the foot-paths and by-ways are tree-lined with maple, elm and evergreens, and so shady that one can walk uncovered through all their lengths without a sun-frown. Almost as tree-shaded are the lawns and flower gardens, with their fountains, lawn ornaments of huge dogs and other animals, rustic seats, stone vases, flower-pots, etc., laden with the richest offerings of flower and foliage that June can furnish. No one can visit St. Mary’s without being impressed by the beauty of its surroundings, and a Tribune representative learned from Mother Angela that these are to be increased in the near future. In a brief stroll about the grounds she explained that the laundry below the bluff and on the bank of the
676
THE KOTRE DAME -SCHOLASTIC.
river is to be removed, and the recreation grounds extended down to the water’s edge. These rugged bluffs are the most picturesque points about St. Mary’s. They are thickly covered with a growth of forest trees, massive rocks crop out here and there, and when paths are made down to the gravelly bed of the river, little will be left undone to make it one of the most sought after retreats in all the grounds. Kight at these bluffs the river makes a sudden bend in a western direction, leaving many acres of bottom land, which have been turned into a large and fruitful - orchard. Near this is a beautiful island, which is connected
to St. Mary’s main-land by a bridge, and here many of the pupils are allowed to go and fish on stated occasions. At the edge of the bluffs and on a level with the Juniors’ recreation grounds are two or three summer-houses for their use, and the beautiful little chapel of Our Lady of Loretto. Near this are the immense grape arbors which run northward an interminable distance, and afford a bountiful supply of this delicious fruit for the Academy. Near here is a flower garden, in which a bed is given to every Junior who desires to cultivate flowers. This flower garden and the shaded grounds near it are the Junior recreation grounds. The Seniors’ is in front of the Academy, comprising the different lawns and flower-gardens there, while the Minims have a lawn to themselves on. the left of the Academy and in front of the convent. All are thus provided for in the amplest manner, without any of the departments clashing together.
The exercises in St. Cecilia’s Hall began yesterday afternoon at three o’clock, in the presence of a large number of people, among whom were Very Rev. Father Sorin and other notables. After the Valse Caprice—“ Wahlstimmen,” executed by Miss Minerva Spier, Miss Ida Fisk read an essay on “ A Floral View of Humanity.” A sestette, “ Chi me Frena ” was executed most admirably by the Misses L. and A. Kirchner, Silverthorne, Gordon, Usselman and Ca-pelle, accompanied by Miss Geiser. Miss Ellen Keenan read an essay in French, on “ Jeanne d’Arc,” and Miss Sarah Moran an English one on “ Different Standpoints.” Then followed a Polonaise from Liszt by Miss Kirchner. Miss Silverthorn sang “ Sancta Lucia,” Miss Galen accompanying on the harp, and Miss Kirchner on the piano. Miss Adelaide Geiser then read an essay in German, “ If acid det Granges." Two musical numbers from Rossini and Liszt followed, when Miss Louise Kelly read an essay on “ Order is Heaven’s First Law.” This was the last essay of the afternoon’s entertainment, which concluded with three other musical numbers.
At the close, and before the beginning of the exercises, the paintings and drawings, which were on exhibition in St. Luke’s Studio, were visited by large numbers, as was also the ornamental needle-work, laces, etc., and plain sewing on exhibition in the needle-work department. The plain sewing made by hand and on the sewing machine, was particularly interesting, and composed garments of every description.
All the essays, French, German and English, it is hardly necessary to state, were original, and showed the perfection attained here in these languages.
to-day’s exercises.
There was a greater increase of visitors to-day, and among them quite a number of notables. The exercises were almost exclusively musical, aside from the interesting feature of conferring graduating medals, distributing crowns and honors, and awarding premiums.
The graduates of the regular course were the Misses Hope Russell, Oshkosh, Wisconsin; Sarah Moran, Mil-burne, Illinois; Ida C. Fiske, Niles,-Michigan; and Louise Kelley, Chicago.
The graduates in the Conservatory of Music were the Misses Adelaide Geiser, Chicago; Clara Silverthorn, Charleston, Illinois; Elizabeth Kirchner, Detroit, Michigan; and Minerva Spier, Peoria, Illinois.
The honors for the academic year were awarded as follows:
The prize gold medal in German, presented by Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger, awarded to Miss Adelaide Geiser, of Illinois.
The prize gold medal in Domestic Economy, presented by Rt. Rev. Bishop Gilmour, awarded to Miss Mary Birch, of Indiana.
The prize gold medal in French, presented by Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General of the Order of the Holy Cross, awarded to Miss Ellen Keenan, of Canada.
The prize gold medal in polite, amiable deportment, presented by Rev. H. A. Hellhake, awarded to Miss Clara Silverthorn.
The prize gold medal in painting, presented by Dr. Toner, Washington, D. C., awarded to Miss Emma Lange, of Michigan.
The prize gold medal in Christian Doctrine, presented by Mrs. Phelan, of Ohio, awarded to Miss Hope Russell.
The prize silver medal in Art, presented by Dr. Toner awarded to Miss Teresa Zahm, of Indiana.
The eminent and generous patron of Art—Dr. Toner—in presenting this second medal requested that it be offered to the entire school, excepting the organized classes in the Studio. Drawing for all the pupils is as much a daily class at St. Mary’s as writing or reading. Dr. Toner’s view in regard to the second medal is that it may, perchance, fall to the lot of one in whom a talent for art lies dormant that may be revealed by offering such an inducement to the whole school outside the Art Department. All may compete for it, from the most advanced Senior to the smallest Minim.
In the Junior Department the prize gold medal in polite, amiable deportment, presented by Mr. Garrity, of Chicago, was awarded to Annie McGrath, of Dlinois.
The closing remarks were made by Hon. W. J. Hynes, of Chicago, and the 24th Annual Commencement of St. Mary’s passed into history.
[from the South Bend Evening Register of June 25.]
The twenty-fourth Annual Commencement exercises of St. Mary’s Academy were held yesterday and to-day, under the most favorable auspices. The weather has been delightful. A warm summer sun tempered by cooling breezes has ruled the elements, making the exercises all the more enjoyable for the comfort with which they were witnessed.
St. Mary’s Academy and its vicinage never looked more attractive than under the blue June skies of yesterday and to-day. Nature is in her fullest, freshest and loveliest attire. The greensward is dark and rich under the shadow of the trees; wild birds are singing sweet songs among the branches, and flowers bloom and shed their fragrance on the passing breeze. From the Exhibition Hall there are bright glimpses here and there of the serpentine St. Joseph, which winds its way at the very foot of this queen of Alma Maters. As usual there is a throng of visitors from far and near, parents, brothers and sisters of the students, patrons
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	677
and friends of the Institution. There are many distinguished looking people among them to be seen every year, people from our largest and most distant cities, and people who occupy the highest positions in the land, socially, professionally and politically. One can always find good company at St. Mary’s on these occasions, among the many cultured and distinguished people who assemble there, and in this the aesthetic mind finds an added charm. Tried by the experiences of a quarter of a century, St. Mary’s Academy has proved itself worthy of the attention and patronage of the most exacting on the subject of the training and education of the young, and the gratifying success is a larger attendance of pupils to-day than ever before.
The Commencement exercises opened at 3 o’clock yesterday afternoon, in the exhibition hall, which was tastefully decorated for the occasion. The program for the afternoon was as follows:
Valse Caprice—“Wahlstimmen,” Op. 250..............Tausig
Miss Spier.
Essay—“A Floral View of Humanity ”.............Miss Fisk
Bestette—“Chi me;Frena,” (Lucia)...............Donizetti
Misses L. and A Kirchner, Silverthorn. Gordon, Usselman and Capelie.—Ace’d by Mies Geiser.
Essay—“Jeanne d’Arc,”........................Miss Keenan
Polonaise, No. 2, E. Dur.......................Franz Liszt
Miss Kirchner.
Essay—“Different Standpoints,”...............Miss Moran
Song—“ Santa Lucia,”............................  - .Braga
Miss Clara Silverthorn. Harp—Miss Ellen Galen. Piano— Miss Kirchner.	■
German Essay—“Macht des Gesanges,” ............Miss Geiser
Scene and Cavatina—“0 Patria, di tanti Palpiti,”..Rossini
Miss A. Kirchner. Ace’d by Miss E. Kirchner.
Rhapsodic Hongroise, No. 9, “Le Carnival de Pesth,”.Liszt Miss Silverthorn.
Essay—“Order is Heaven’s First Law,”...........Miss Kelly
Read by Miss Hope Russell.
Song—“ Forsetta, ”................................L'Arditi
Miss Kirchner. Acc’d by Miss Silverthorn.
Grande Fantaisie—“Reminiscences de Norma,”...Franz Liszt
Miss Geiser.
Solo and Chorus—Solo, Miss Devoto; Private Vocal Class. Acc’d by Miss Galen.
Music is one of the specialties at St. Mary’s. One dosen’t hear better in class or execution anywhere outside the galaxy of star songsters and musicians. The training is evidently thorough; and usually with good material to work upon, the best effects are obtained. As may be observed by inspecting the programs included in this report, the music was of the highest order. The vocal parts discovered a number of excellent voices, and the instrumental was none the less fortunate, especially in the introduction of Miss Geiser, the young lady who performed on the piano so acceptably at the concert given by the pupils of the Academy in this city a short time ago for the benefit of Notre Dame.
, The essays of the young ladies were highly creditable from a literary point of view, displaying a fine flow of thought couched in simple but effective English—and we speak of those now that were written in English. The French and German essays were foreign to our tongue, but not so strange that, the correctness of the pronunciation, style of reading and general effect was lost. The young ladies evidently'understood what they were reading about, if we didn’t, and that was the real desideratum. We were es-. pecially pleased with the production of Miss Spier, “ A Floral View of Humanity,” in which she drew some very correct and beautiful analogies between the children of Flora and the children of men. “ Different Standpoints,” by Miss Moran, was another pleasing production, showing how different views affect different and the same minds, and how essential to good judgment it is to view questions and things in every possible light. The essay was read for Miss Moran by Miss Cavenor. Miss Kelley’s essay was an illustration of the proverb “Order is Heaven’s First Law,” and the application to our everyday life was very neatly made.	. .	. . ,
Following the exercises, the visitors were invited to an inspection of St. Luke’s Studio and the needle-work department. In the former was found a beautiful display of works of art in oil, water-colors and crayon, including -portraiture, landscapes, fruits and flowers, on the first of
which the name of Miss Emma Lange was inscribed as the artist. Miss Lange wins the art medal this year. In the needle-work department was a profusion of the most exquisite handiwork, in point and Brussels laces, ornamental work on upholstered furniture, tidies and rugs. There . were also a number of creditable examples of plain sewing.
CONCLUDING EXERCISES.
The concluding exercises of the occasion were held this morning, beginning at 9 o’clock, when the following program was given:
GRAND ENTRANCE OF THE PUPILS.
Kaiser Marsch...........................Richard Wagner
Pianos: Misses Geiser, Buck, Silverthorn, Keenan, Kirchner, Gordon, Spier, and Dillon.
Harps: Misses Galen and Brown.	.
Quintette and Semi-ehorus, (Martha)............Platovs
Misses Devoto, Kirchner, Silverthorn, Usselman and Capelie. Acc’d by Miss Geiser.
Distribution of Premiums—Junior Department.
Fantasia on Favorite Melodies...........For Two Harps
1st Harp—Miss Galen. 2d Harp—Miss Dillon.
Distribution of Premiums—Preparatory Department.
Cavatina—“ Lost Birdling"..................  Centemeri
Miss Devoto. Acc’d by Miss Silverthorn.
Distribution of Premiums—Senior Department.
Harp Solo.....................................Gidfroid
Mrs. Fitz-Gerald.
Overture zu “Tannhauser” (Two Pianos,)..Richard Wagner Misses Geiser, Spier, Kirchner and BUvertbom.
J uniors and Minims will Appear.
Oratorio, The Seasons—Spring and Summer.........Haydn
Soloists—Misses Devoto, Kirchner and Silverthorn.
Chorus—Pupils of Private Vocal Class. Acc’d by Miss Galen. Conferring Graduating Gold Medals in the Academic
Department.
Conferring Graduating Gold Medals in the Conservatory of Music, and Prize Medals.
Distribution of Crowns and Honors in the Senior, Preparatory and Junior Departments.
Coronation Chorus...............Arranged for the occasion
General Class. Acc’d on Two Pianos by Misses Spier and
Campbell.
Valedictory.................................Miss Russell
closing remarks.
March Triomphale, Op. 91........................A	Goria
Misses Usselman, Sullivan, Neu, McGrath, Rosing, Adelaide
Kirchner, Killelea and Lange.
Harps—Misses Dillon and Semmes.
The attendance of visitors was even larger than on yesterday, and the. entertainment afforded by the exercises was thoroughly enjoyed by the large audience. The distribution of premiums, the conferring of graduating medals and the distribution of crowns and honors made an interesting scene. The Valedictory fell to Miss Hope Russell, and in its delivery and subject matter the young lady acquitted herself handsomely.
[From the “Catholic Columbian."]
The Annual Commencement exercises of St Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Indiana, took place on Wednesday of last week. The large and airy hall of St. Cecilia was tastefully decorated, and there youth, innocence and beauty were congregated to solemnly, yet happily, close another academic year. The oration of the day was pronounced by Hon. W. J. Hynes, of Chicago, and was a masterly effort. We were depending upon some of our friends for a full report of the Commencement, and when they failed, we looked anxiously for the Scholastic, but it has postponed the report till its next issue. We are proud to learn that Columbus’s representatives, Misses Annie Jones and Mary English, won many honors. We heartily agree with the Notre Dame Scholastic when it says that “ St. Mary’s Academy has steadily grown into her place as one of the leading institutions for the education of young la
678
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
dies. Intellect and virtue, the ornamental and the useful, go hand in hand, and in this pleasant home at St. Mary’s the young girl grows into womanhood well prepared to take her place as the guardian angel of her own family and the purifier and ennobler of society. We do not think it possible to have a young ladies’ school more pleasantly situated or better conducted.”
We notice that the graduates of St. Mary’s have formed this year an association. It is the first of the kind ever organized in this country ata Catholic young ladies’ academy, and the spirit of generosity that prompted it is worthy a Catholic heart, educated under the influence of St. Mary’s. Its immediate object is the raising of funds for obtaining a large statue for Notre Dame, to replace the one destroyed by fire when the College burned down.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 10,1876, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 35 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 230 p. m; Buffalo 8 <5 p. m.
11 05 a.m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p.m; Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
13 16 p.m. Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 40 p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 am.
0 13 p.m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arives at Toledo 2 40 a.m: Cleveland, 7 05 a.m; Buffalo, 110 p.m.
4. 50 and 4 p.m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 43 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a.m, Chicago 6 a.m.
5 05 a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 a.m, Chicago 820 a.m.
4 50 p.m, Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte 540, Chicago 8 p.m.
8 03 am. Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 a.m; Chicago, 1130 a.m.
7 30 and 8 03 a.m. Way Freight
F. C. Rape, Ticket Agt.. South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Supt.
great southerk^railway line
C. r. ATMORE,
General Passenger aud Ticket Agent.
"Weeklv Newspapers.
The catholic Columbian, published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and Inends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
'	D. A. Clarke, of 70.
THE AvE MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.50.
I
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
OM. PROCTOR ’[of ’75], Civ’l ingineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main Street, Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. ST A.CE [of ’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Hotels.
THE BON D HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House
THE MATTERSON HOUSE, Corner of Was bash Ave. and Jackson Street, Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matterson
Book Binders.
EDWARD E. FLYNN, Plain and Fancy Book-bind er, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
Qpf CALLING CARDS-no two alike, with neatly printed for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
Mishawaka, Ind.
CENTS will obtain you a Copy of The Scholastic Almanac for 1879. Address
J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame, Ind.
Attorneys at Law.
BROWN at HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attorneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER at MITCHELL (N. S. Mitchell, of ’72) Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Bra'ly St., Davenport, Iowa.
rpiIOMAS R. CLIFFORD (of ’62). Attorney a JL Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 20 Broadway ,coi. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FJATVBTIjN'G- & HOGAN (D. J. Hogan, of ’74), Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ash’and Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts, Chicago, Ill.
J OUT IN F. McHUGH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE	DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and
Wm W., both of’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, No'ary Public and Commissioner of Deeds. Office, 93 Mam St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE «& MILLARD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’68). Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty. Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
WILLI AM J. CL AKKE (of ’74), Attorney at Law. Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S High St, Columbus, O.
JAMES A.. O’ R EILLY-of ’69—Attorney at Law, 627 Court St., Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOHN I>. McCORMACK-of ’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
DA2VIEE B. HIBBARD, Jr., (of ’70), Attorney at Law. Special attention given to Collections. 98 Griswold Street, Detroit, Mich.	...	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	679
■ Wl*"	.... .......
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
NOV. IO, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side.) On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No. 1 Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburg,	Lea ye Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 '	Mansfield,	 L	Crestline,	Abbive	11.45 p.m. 12.53 a.m. 3.10 “ 4.50 “ 7.00 «, 7.30 “	9.00 a.m. 10.12 “ 12.50 p.m. 2.26 “ 4.40 “ 5.15 “	1.50 pat. 2.55 “ 5.3T “ 7.1t “ 9.2C “ 9.45 “	6.00 A.M. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
•	Crestlin	Leave Forest	 t	Lima			 Ft. Wayne,	 Plymouth,	 Chicago,	Abbive	7.50 a.m. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ 1.20 p.m. 3.50 “ 7.00 “	5.40 p.m. 7.35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2.46 AM. 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 12.25 a.m. 2.40 ‘ 4.55 “ 7.58 “	•••••••••

GOING EAST.
	No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex	No. 6, Atlan.Ex.	No. 8, Mail.
"	Chicago	Leave	9.10 p.m.	8.30 a.m.	5.15 p.m.	
Plymouth,		2.46 a.m.	11.48 “	8.55	
Ft Wayne,	.'	655 “	2.25 p.m.	11.30 “	
Lima,.!....		8.55 “	4.20 “	1.30 a m	
Forest,		10.10 “	5.27 “	2.33 “	
Crestline,	Abbive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.05 “		
Crestline,	Leave	12.05 p.m.	7.15 p.m.	4.15 A.M.	6.05 am.
Mansfield,		12.35 “	7.45 “	4.55 “	655 “
Orrville,..				2.26 “	9.38 “	7.00 “	9.15 “
Alliance,		4.00 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	1120 “
Rochester,		6.22 “	1.20 A.M.	11.06 “	
Pittsburgh,.... Abbive	7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 p.m.	3.30 “ ’
Trarns Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That, runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore. Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. MYEES, G. P. & T. A.
INMAN LINE.
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS. NEW YOBE to QUEENSTOWN and LIVERPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491 CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607 CITY OF CHESTER, 4566 CITY OF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS, 3775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS, 3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G- DALE, Agt.
15 Broadway, New York. Or to JACOB VILE,
Foreign Exchange and Passage Agent, p$t5-tf LaPorte, Indiana.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
The Chicago & North-Westen Bailway, embracing under one management the Great Trunk Hallway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its Chicago, st. paul and Minneapolis line is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay-Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine. Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street: Omaha Office, 245 Farnham street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner of W. Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to W- H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGHITT,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t., Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Nov. 11, 1877.
	•Mail	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	+Atlantic Express.	Blight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -“ Mich. City -“ Niles	 “ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson - - - Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a. m 11 10 “ 12 15 p. m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 “ •Jackson Express. 5 40 Am 8 40 “ 4 45p.m 4 30 a.m 6 30 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “	515 p.m. 740 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 Am 335 “ ’	19 00 pm 115 “ 12 35 am 217 “ 445 “ 8 00 “
					
	•Mall	•Day Express.		t Pacific Express	tEvening E xpress. 6 20 p m 940 1235 a m 2 38 “ 415 “ 645 “
Lv. Detroit - - -“ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo--“ Niles 		 “ Mich. City - - Ar. Chicago		7 00 a. m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 55 “	9 35a.m 12 15 p. m 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		9 50 p.m. 12 45 a.m. 2 53 “ 424 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	
Niles and South Bend Division.
•GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p.m. “ N. Dame-8 52 “	638 “ Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “		•GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 415 pan. “ N. Dame—7 40 “	448 “ Ar. So-Bend—745 “	4 55 “
•Sunday excepted.	tDaily.	^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henbt C. Wentworth,	H. B Ledyabd,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
Q. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
680	f,THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
W. S. Golsen.	D. R. Mullins.
GOLSEN & MULLIN’S, Dealers in Chapin & Gore’s
NATIVE AND IMPORTED WINES.
FINEST IMPORTED CIGARS.
W. IS. Cor. JLaSalle & Monroe Sts. .
Henry Styles, Manager.	Cliicago.
f22-ly
A MAN
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUNTRY, WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP, THAT THE
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST AND THE WEST I
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs and Omaha, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo, Moline. Rock Island, Davenport, West Liberty. Iowa City, Marengo, Brooklyn, Grinnell and Des Moines, (the capital of Iowa) with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria ; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon, Belknap. Centreville, Princeton, Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron. Leavenworth and Atchison: Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Bentonsport, Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville. Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe and Des Moines; Des Moines to Indianola and Winterset; Atlantic to Audubon, and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad, which owns, controls and operates a through line between Chicago and Kansas.
This Company own and control their Sleeping Cars, which are inferior to none, and give you a double berth between Chicago and Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, or Atchison for Two Dollars and Fifty Cents, and a section for Five Dollars, while all other lines charge between the same points Three Dollars for a double berth, and Six Dollars for a section.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Illinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining and Restaurant Cars that accompany all Through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents; or you can order what you like, and pay for what you get.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes (and the enormous passenger business of this line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs its PALACE SLEEPING CARS for Sleeping purposes, and its PALACE DINING CARS for Eating purposes. I One other great feature of our Palace Cars is a I
PALACE CABS are run through to PEOKIA.DES MOINES, COUNCII. BEUFFS, ATCHISON and LEAVEXWORTH:
Tickets via this Une, known as the “Great Kock Island Koute,” are sold by all Ticket Agents in the United States and Canada.
For information not obtainable at your home ticket office, address,
A. KIMBALL,	:	E. ST. JOHN.
Gen’l Superintendent.	Gen’l Tkt. and Pass’gr Agt,
,	-	.	Chicago, DU
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
JL2srr>
JE WELKyY'.
All Kinds of Engraving1 Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your "Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison, connections being made in Union depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS :
At Chicago, with all diverging lines for the East and South.
At Englewood, with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern and Pittsburg, Ft Wayne & Chicago R. Rds.
At Washington Heights, with Pittsburg, Cincinnati & St Louis R. R.
At LA Salle, with Illinois Central R. R.
At Peoria, with P., P. & J.: P..L. &D.; I. B. & W.; Ill. Midland; and T., P. & W. Railroads.
At ROCK ISLAND, with Western Union R. R. and Rock Island & Peoria Railroad.
At Davenport, with the Davenport & NorthWestern , It
At West Liberty, with the Burlington, Cedar Rapids & Northern R. R.
At Grinnell, with Central R. R. of Iowa.
At des Moines, with D. M. & Ft Dodge R. R.
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R. R.
At OMAHA, with B. & Mo. R. It R. (in Neb.)
At Columbus J unction, with Burlington,Cedar Rapids & Northern R. R.
At Ottumwa, with Central R. R. of Iowa; St. Louis. Kan. City & Northern and C.. B. & O. R. Rds.
At Keokuk, with Toledo, Peoria and Warsaw; Wabash, and St Louis, Keokuk & N.-W. R. Rds.
At Beverly, with Kan. City, St. J. & C. B. R. R.
At Atchison, with Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe; Atchison & Neb. and Cen. Br. Union Pacific R.Rds.
At Leavenworth, with K. P. and K. Cen. R. Rds.