The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE pTUDENTS.
“Vita Sine Lateris Mors Est.” V
Volume VI.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, IND., OCT. 5, 1872. Number 4.
Please Pay Attention.
AU mail matter intended for persons residing at Notre Dame should be addressed simply to Notre Dame, Ind. Many mistakes have occurred and daily do occur, in consequence of addressing the letters, etc., to “Notre Dame University,” or to “ South Bend,” or “ Notre Dame, near South Bend.” Remember, then, the proper address is simply “Notre Dame, Ind.,” as it is by that name our post-office is known.
The Bat that Retired from the World.
Mr. Editor: Lest any of your readers should be tempted to “ cheese it,” I submit the following translation of one of La Fontaine’s Fables:
PREAMBLE.
Go, read our author in his native tongue!— Melodious French La Fontaine’s muse has sung. Melodious French, whose tones no gutturals mar; With consonants dropped, avoiding every jar, It bids the vulgar throat its aspirates cease, And let the gentler organs speak in peace. By rosy lips and pearly teeth compressed, The dainty syllables on tip-tongue hang;
Save when the nose descends to help the rest, And gives the m and n a sonorous twang.
Melodious French still more melodious made By sweet La Fontaine, delicate but strong;
In one short word more power is oft displayed, Than we could find in many a treatise long.-How then, in homely Anglo-Saxon dress, § Can I presume to clothe him ? Yet no less The task assigned by one whom all obey.
I’ll do my best! May saints and angels for me pray!
THE FABLE.
’Tis a Levantine legend quaint How a grey rat, fatigued with worldly care, Retired to a Dutch cheese to play the saint, -And led a hermit’s life, with sanctimonious air.
(Though how Dutch cheese was brought to the Levant La Fontaine’s theory is not extant.)	.
A solitude profound
Extended all within its round, And there he dwelt, and worked with tooth and nail, Until, his hermitage complete, He found all wants supplied—or, in detail, " Shelter and food to eat.	, .
Who desires more ? And growing big and fat,. “ God takes care of his own !” exclaimed the rat. •
One day a hungry throng his door beset— A deputation met
And begged him for an alms to help them on their way, They had not had a meal for many a day— A trifling alms !—they sought a foreign shore;	'
By cats besieged, their home was safe no more, Ratopolis blockaded, They were sent out by funds unaided" To seek for help, so low had famine brought The rats’ republic,—almost come io nought.
A trifling alms they asked, for certain aid Would be afforded to them soon, they said.
“ My friends,” the hermit rat replied,
“ With worldly cares no longer occupied, A poor recluse could scarce supply your need. What can I do for you ? I hope, indeed, That Providence will free you from your cares, And promise you my own most fervent prayers.” With these cold consolations, and no more, Our hermit closed his door.	A. J. 8.
-The Study of Words.*
In order to become a good writer or speaker nothing is more important than the study of words. It is the only means of gaining a command of language and of improving our power of expression.	*
Many persons, it is true, seem to have a natural command, of language, but for the majority it can only be acquired by earnest and persevering effort We should endeavor to have such a thorough knowledge of words as to be able always to choose those which express our thoughts most clearly, forcibly and precisely.
There may be many ways of expressing an idea, but they are not all equally good. So there are many synonymous words, stiil there is always one that expresses our meaning more forcibly.	‘
A good dictionaiy is indispensable to every'student, and should be consulted as often as a doubt arises concerning the meaning of a word. Our language contains many synonymous words but many are synonymous only in appearance and have grades of difference which only the experienced can distinguish.
Many persons seem to think that a dictionary is only for the use of those who cannot spell; but this is a great mistake. If editors, lawyers, statesmen, clergymen, writers for magazines and newspapers and authors of books would consult their dictionaries oftener our language would not be so corrupted with barbarisms, vulgarisms, provincialisms, foreign and newly-coined words—as it is in many parts of our country. It is said that there are only three or four cities in the United States where English is spoken
9
26
THE SCHOLASTIC.
correctly. Nothing savors so much of pedantry and hetrays greater ignorance than the use of foreign or newly-coined words. Our language is rich, and we have no ideas that cannot be expressed in good, pure English.,
Many who are versed in ancient and Oriental languages have no conception of the beauty and fertility of their own.
Use is the law of language; but, asCampbell remarks, it must be reputable, national and present.
The English is suffering violence at the hands of the present generation. The press is teeming with novelties ; carelessness in the usage of words and in the construction of sentences is lamentably prevalent, parents teach barbarous English to their children; the mania for Latin and other dead languages is universal, the study of English is neglected at our schools and universities, and lawyers, clergymen, statesmen, editors, authors and professors seem to have conspired against their mother-tongue. If we could return to visit our terrestrial home about the year 1950 we should discover that the Queen’s English no longer exists.
But we are wandering beyond our limits of time and space.
By constantly reading standard authors whose diction, like Dean Swift’s, is remarkable for the strictest purity and propriety, and the uninterrupted use of the dictionary, and by linguistic studies if we pursue them we may hope to acquire that command of our language on which Fox complimented Pitt, as having not only a word, but the word, the very word, to express his meaning.
Fers Hyacinthe’s Carriage.
Editors and writers for the press have been .busy of late, ventilating the question of the sacrilegious marriage of Charles Loyson, better known as “ Pdre Hyacinthe.”
Some write about the affair as they would about any other litem of news, considering it important only on account of its being uncommon; others set themselves to the task of justifying the course of the ex-priest, on the plea that marriage is natural to man, and therefore Charles Loyson, though a Catholic priest, had a right to many if he thought proper; others still laud the faithless priest, as a hero who had the courage to break the chains of his bondage to Rome and assert his rights as a man; while others severely condemn him as false to his God and a scandal to the people. In a word, each one writes according to his own judgment, ignorance, prejudice or knowledge.
We cannot look upon this as a matter of indifference, because there is a great principle of morals involved; we cannot justify, much less praise, the course of Mr. Loyson, because his marriage is in direct opposition to the moral principle of which we speak; hence we can only condemn.
But what is that principle which he has so seriously violated? That principle.is truth,—a principle which cannot be violated, even in the slightest degree, without fault, but which Mr. Loyson has violated in its highest degree and under circumstances which render the fault a hundredfold more grievous.
If—we would ask those writers who seek to justify Mr. Loyson—if a man were to promise to stand by and support you in a case in which your reputation or some other great interest were at stake; nay, were he to pledge him-
self by a solemn oath to do so, and afterwards, at the mo- _ ment when his support was most needed, he were to desert you, and use all his influence to withdraw others of your friends from your cause, what would you think of him? . Would you praise him as a hero, who had used his right as a man to change his opinion and give his aid and support to whom he pleases ? No, you would condemn him as a hypocrite—as a base liar.
If, in addition to the solemn pledge given in this case, the one who made such a promise were bound to you by other ties—for instance, if he were your son, or your brother,—would not the shame and malice of his defection be greatly augmented ? Most certainly. He would then	4
not only act contrary to truth and honor, but even contrary to nature itself.
Yet, as an individual, that man was free to make you the promise he did make, or not, and had he refused to do so, you might accuse him of lack of interest in your welfare, but nothing more. It is the promise unfulfilled, therefore, that would render him a hypocrite and liar,— the oath unkept, that would make him a perjurer.
Now this is precisely the case with Mr. Loyson, alias P^re Hyacinthe. He, as a man, was once free to marry or not—he was under no obligation to devote himself to a life of celibacy; even after he had tried his powers of selfcontrol, after he had made his theological studies, yes, after he had received the minor orders he was still free to withdraw from the course on which he had entered, and marry. Moreover, when, still persevering, he presented himself for Subdeaconship, in which the vow of celibacy is implied, the ordaining Bishop addressed him the admonition : Ad hue liber es,—As yet you are free; he was then told to reflect upon the step he was about to take, before it would be too late to recede. He still persevered—he professed his readiness to devote himself exclusively to the service of God and the spiritual welfare of his fellowmen; and that he might be free from all earthly attachments—free to labor undisturbed in his important mission —free to sacrifice his life, if necessary, for the glory of God and the good of souls, he stepped forward and made the solemn vow never to marry. With that understanding he was raised sue cessively to the various sacred orders and finally ordained priest. He began his high mission well and did the work of God zealously. Pride, however, crept into his heart; and caused him to rebel against his superiors;'for this he was forbidden to exercise his functions as a priest, until he should repent and submit to lawful authority. Instead of doing this he went a-step further in his rebellion—rebelled against God and broke his own solemn engagements, by doing that which he had vowed not to do. Furthermore, he has endeavored to withdraw	1
from the service of God others who are honestly and sincerely devoted to the work of saving souls.
Such being'the true state of the case, we would ask: Has not Mr. Loyson acted the part.of a faithless servant towards God, to whom he owes his very existence? Has he not violated truth, by failing to keep his promise, and is he not, therefore, a liar? Has he not violated his solemn vow, and is he not therefore a perjurer? How ' then, can any man of honor, any man who values truth and honesty,.seek to justify^such a man? Echo answers: “ How ?”	'	,	,
Yet we do not give up all hope of Mr. Loyson, nor do we consign him to perdition because he has done wrong
THE SCHOLASTIC.
27
Many a one did equally wrong and afterwards redeemed himself by repentance and a good life. The thief found mercy on the gibbet, and we hope that through the mercy of God this faithless priest will yet see his sad mistake and by penance be again reconciled to the God whom he has abandoned, for a woman, who, if report speaks true, is none too good to be the quasi wife of a fallen priest. Our feelings towards Mr. Loyson are those of pity, not of anger. His infidelity to God is more injurious to himself than to any one else.
'	[From the Phrenological Journal.]
as It True?
In a recent novel the writer thus defines his position: “Stories! stories’ stories! stories everywhere! stories in every paper, in every crevice, crack, and corner of the house. We see that this thing is to go on. Soon it will be necessary that every leading clergyman should embody in his theology a social story to be delivered from the pulpit, Sunday after Sunday. . . . Finally, all science and all art will be explained, conducted, and directed by serial stories, till the present life and the life to come shall form only one grand romance.”
This is what we are coming to, is it ? This is the way we are to grow “ weaker and wiser.” We are to become so weak that we cannot appreciate any kind of literature, unless it is told to us in the form of a story. Teachers are to teach stories, and preachers are to preach stories. Mathematical questions are to be solved by weaving them in with a story. The hero will probably give a clear demonstration of various kinds of propositions during the quiet winter evenings. Some other hero will teach his lady-love the languages, and in that story we shall be taken through all the different declensions without once stopping to wonder why “ Latin nouns have so many cases.” Another Adolphus and his fair one will talk of historical events. And as we read that story, those long, hard names, which have always been a dread to the scholar, will become “ perfectly charming,” and dates will be readily committed to memory. Of course all of these things will be talked about during courtship and the honeymoon; for who ever, in a story or elsewhere, heard of a husband and wife having a good social visit after that time?	. .
. But seriously, are we going to allow stories to take the place of other literature? Shall we sit and see our friends reading trashy novels without -warning them of their ruinous effects ? We already have too much day-dreaming and too little real life. Sometimes it seems as though we had forgotten that life was real, but regard it only as a dream, and stories rapidly increase dream-life.
In speaking of novel-reading, a writer says, “ It is a culpable habit; it consumes much valuable time; it is also a waste of money. The inveterate novel-reader, like the drunkard, lays out his money for that which is neither food, clothing, nor shelter.”
The novel-reader’s course is very similar to that of the drunkard. They commence by an “ occasional ” story, which they read to rest them from business, or to pass away the time while travelling. At first they read nothing but stories which are written for the purpose of exposing national or individual follies. Next they read to learn hu
man nature; then, as their appetite increases, they read without any excuse, only to satisfy their longing desire for romance. Finally, business, friends, and many opportunities of doing good are neglected for the sake of a story. The realities of life are irksome to them. They complain about labor, and are constantly wishing Adam had never’ sinned and compelled man to “ earn his bread by the sweat of his brow.” They wish they had been bom rich, or that “ their ship .would come in” in fact, they are desirous of anything that will release them from toil and give them leisure. • ■	'
Now, have we not right here a work to do? Is it not our duty to help clear the land of this curse? Let us awake and be as ready to defend the right as others are the wrong. Let us not sit watching the tide of events, vainly regretting that wrong is on the increase, but stand ready to protect the right. “ Let us not be weary in welldoing, but faithful unto the end.”
Kate Renel.
Remembrance-
La Fayette, Ind., September 23,1872.
Reverend and dear Father : It is now nearly two weeks since I bade farewell* to my dear Alma JUater and its kind inmates, but the memory of that honored spot where I spent childhood’s happy days always remains. I often hear from Notre Dame; weekly I receive that beautiful little paper—The Scholastic. Oh, how fondly, dear Father, do I love to linger over that little lifeless messenger—the silent though significant and touching voice and sentiments of the absent loved ones. Often and often again have I passed golden moments of unalloyed delight and pleasure in perusing word after word and line after line of that ever-welcome messenger—The Scohlastic. But, Father, I did not intend to wander off in this manner. What are the prospects for the coming year? Will Notre Dame be great and glorious in the future as she has been in the past ? Certainly she must; she has all that is necessary and requisite,—excellent officers, a learned faculty and a past of which she may ever feel proud. With all these advantages and glories how could it be otherwise ? Yes, dear Notre Dame, your old students and friends look forward to the time when you will be not only the first institution in this great republic of ours (and surely you equal any now), .but when you will be the institution of the world. This, Ntore Dame, is your destiny, and' prepare to fulfill it.
* * * * * * ■
Your affectionate friend, Jno. F. McHugh.
[Such is the language of warm friendship which comes from one who did his duty as a student for several years, and carried away with him last June the reward of his industry—a Collegiate degree. Such too will ever be the language of those who do their duty at College, for they will inevitably be satisfied with themselves and with their teachers; it is only the indolent or unruly student who can think or speak unfavorably of his Alma JiTater. We wish our'young friend success in his chosen profession— the Law—equal to that which he achieved at Notre Dame. —Ed. Scholastic.]
♦ The writer was then on a visit.
“Iwish,” said an irate lawyer, “you would pay.a little attention to what I say.” “ I am,” answered the witness, “ paying as little as I can.” •
28
THE scholastic;
'The Suhixlastic.
Published every Week during Term Time, at
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
Rev. M. B. Brown, C. S. C.,......Editor.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
TERMS:
One year........................$2 00
One session (5 months).......... 125
Single copies (10c) of the publication can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
He Will Succeed. ..
In our quiet peregrinations in the Seniors’ Study Hall ■we found the following table of hours and studies :
A. M. 6-7—Preparation for Latin.
“	7-7X-Breakfast and Recess.
“	7%-SX—Recitation in Greek.
8J^-9X_Recitation in Latin.
“	9%-10—Recess—Exercise outdoors.
“	10-11—Preparation for Arithmetic.	■
“	11-12—Preparation for Rhetoric.
P. M.	12-1J^—Dinner—Recess—Walk in the grounds.
“	1M~2M—Recitation in Rhetoric.
“	2^-3%—Recitation in Arithmetic.
M	SX-^X"—Recess—Exercise outdoors.
“	Preparation for German.
“	5X-0X-Recitation in German.
“	6X-7—Supper.
“	7-8—Preparation for Greek.
“	8-Sp£—Read something useful.
The Student in whose desk this table was found is remarkable for good recitations in all his classes, and for a uniform cheerfulness of disposition. He is a general favorite with all. Why is this ? Simply because that student has order in his work; he devotes a reasonable time to each of his studies—does it faithfully, and troubles not his mind with useless calculations or anxieties. He ioiU succeed. Suppose others do likewise!
Notes by the Way.
The Minims have good lungs and use them..
The Elocution classes are numerously attended.
The new frescoing is in good taste. It pleases everybody.
The St. Cectlians are preparing an entertainment for the 20th. Where are the Literary Societies ?
Persons who go about to the private rooms stealing pencils and other small articles will get their fingers burned sooner or later. Shame on such small pilferers!
Those who idle their time now, thinking it a good joke on their professors, will be brought to confession in due time. Such individuals may escape for a short time, but a day of reckoning is sure to come.
Calisthenics and Deportment.—Prof. W. Ivers will give instruction in the above during the winter months, provided a sufficient number of pupils can be obtained. Terms same as last year. It is needless to say that every student in the house should avail himself of this opportun
ity, as nothing so highly recommends a young man as gracefulness.
It will be useless for any student to apply for admission to the Book-keeping Class during the remainder of this term, as it would be impossible for one to make up for the study already done, and we cannot permit the progress of the class to be impeded to accommodate late comers.
Students calling on the Director of Studies with a view to change any class or discontinue any study, must bring a note from the Professor of the class which they wish to discontinue, explaining the reasons for the change; otherwise they will simply lose their time and give annoyance to the Director of Studies—which will be borne—to-a reasonatle extent.
As we deem it our duty to protect our compositors from that aggravating cause of ill temper, bad “ copy, ” we feel called upon to make the following suggestions: 1st Write only on one side of the sheet. 2nd. Arrange your matter in the order in which yon wish it to appear in The Scholastic. 3rd. Having so arranged the matter, number the pages, that the compositors may have a guide to follow.
Please do not send us scraps of soiled paper, hustled to^ gether without order.
Absent from Class—Some ten or twelve would-be students would do well to bring their career of independent idleness to a speedy close. No student at Notre Dame is at liberty to attend 'class “ when he pleases ” or “ what class he pleases.” The course is marked out for all, and all reasonable allowances made by the Director of Studies for individual cases. Without his consent no student can depart from the programme of classes which he received on entering, and any one who attempts to do so, imagining that he has the right to direct his own studies, has evidently made a mistake and came to the wrong school. We hope certain individuals will take the hint in time, and save themselves some unpleasantness.
Personal.
Mr. E. P. Schneider has gone to New Orleans, La.
We are glad to see that Rev. Father Louage is convalescent.
Mr. F. C. Bigelow is well and very comfortably settled at Memramcook, N. B.
Rev. Father John Lauth has been stopping with us for a few days. We are happy to see him looking so well.
Rev. P. E. Gillen was here for a little rest this week. He is recovering from an attack of bilious fever.
Rev. Father Beaudet, President of St. Laurence’ College, Canada, is here for a short visit. He is a learned and amiable gentleman, and is very popular with the St. Laurence boys.	'
Bro. Agatho, formerly of Notre Dame, arrived this week from Canada. He is going South, where we hope he will soon recover his health.
Mr. N. S. Mitchell, B. S., has been obliged to return home. He has the kind wishes of his many sincere friends at Notre Dame.
Mr. T. Ewing, called on Thursday, on his return from Lancaster, Ohio, where he had been on a visit home. We were glad to see him, and to hear from him that our friends in Ohio are all well.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
29
Soil of Honor.
Arrivals.
(
k
' [Under this head are given each week the names of those students whose conduct was in every respect satisfactory during the week preceding the given date.]
September 27, 1872.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
V. M. Baca,	C. A. Berdel,	T. H. Buter,
D. R. Bryant,	M. Basterasche,	W. W. Bartlett,
P. J. Cooney,	J. B. Comer, '	A. H. Claflin,
B. L. Dorsey,	C. J. Dodge,	W. W. Dodge,
J. F. Dillon,	T. J. Dundon,	J. C. Eisenman,
T. D. Flanagan,	B. J. Gorman,	J. J. Gillen,
E. B. Gambee,	J. D. Hogan,	J. E. Hogan,
T. F. Hansard,	E. Halpin,	W. Hoffman,
J. Harrington,	C. W. Hodgson,	J. L. Ireland,
P. L. Johnson,	T. F. Keenan,	C. M. Karst,
J. E. Kelley,	M. M. Foote,	J. McGlynn,
E. Morancy,	D. E. Moloney,	E. S. Monahan,
J. Miller,	J. A. Murphy,	A. J. Mooney,
J. L. Noonan,	T. R. Noel,	P. O’Meara,
P. J. O’Connell,	T. J. Renshaw,	J. M Rourke,
G. Ruger,	J. A. Rofinot,	H. N. Saylor,
E. L. Spitley,	G. Stack,	W. H. Snyder,
F. M. Scrafford,	S. F. Valdez,	W. Van’t Woud,
T. P. White,	C. W. Walters,	H. W. Walker,
T. L. Watson,	C. E. Wheeler,	F. P. Lefflngwell.
	(JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. -	
P. Brosseau,	' W. Breen,	G. Berdel,
F. Cronin,	J. Caren,	J. Campbell,
J. Dore,	J. Danz,	G. Fliehman,
J. Grace,	J. Golseh,	R. Golsen,
J.« Hanly,	E. Holt,	V. Hansen,
C. Hake,	L. 0. Hibben,	H. Hoffman,
A. Kleine,	L. Loser,	F. McOsker,
T. McGee,	J. Mullarky,	S. Marks,
S. Marks,,	J. McGrath,	S. McMahon,
J. Morgan,	J. O’Connell,	W. Pollard,
A. Reid,	D. Salazar,	W. Schulties,
N. Vanamee,	0. Waterman,	S. Wise.
H. Zuber.		
J. F. Edwards, Secretary.
Class Honors.
[Under this heading will appear each week the names of those students who have given satisfaction in all studies of the Class to which they belong. Each Class will be mentioned every fourth week, conformably to the following arrangement. First week, the Classes of the four Collegiate years, (Classical and Scientific); second week, those of the Commercial Course; third week, those of the Preparatory; fourth week, Music, Fine Arts, Modem Languages, and special Classes.—Director of Studies.]
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27. COMMERCIAL COURSE—Senior Department.
H. N. Saylor,	J. B. Comer,
E. Morancy,	J. L. Noonan,
C. Hodgeson.
• COMMERCIAL COURSE—Junior Department.
O. Waterman,	F. McOsker.
A moment lost is lost forever; so do not waste time looking for it, but strive to make up for it by extra diligence in future.	........... -
Peter Troudeau, James Francis Gleeson, James K. Finley, Edward McSweeney, Horace G. Templeton, Philip Jacobs, Albert Kreiter, Christian Berger,’ John S. Cunningham, Harry A. Shephard, William 8: Gross, James A. Brown, Matthew L. Brown, John Flynn,
Benton, Indiana. ' Chicago, Hlinois. Emporia, Kansas. Oil City, Pennsylvania. Oxford, Indiana. Wapakoneta, Ohio.
Toledo, Ohio.
Reading, Pennsylvania. Chicago, Illinois.
Jerseyville, Hlinois. Jerseyville, Hlinois. Brownsville, Texas. Brownsville, Texas. Brownsville, Texas.
Our College Exchanges.
The College Courant, published by Charles C. Chatfield, & Co., New Haven, Conn., has reached us, and is, as usual, full of interesting matter.	*
The Yale Courant, published at Yale College, has arrived.1 It is spicy and interesting as usual.
The Teachers' Record, published by J. B. Lippincott, Philadelphia, contains some highly interesting articles. We have just received No. 4.
The Newspaper Reporter comes regularly, and we find it both interesting and useful.
The College Courier, has made its appearance for ’72 and ’73, and looks as natural as life.
The Annalist from Albion College, Mich., and the College Argus from Middletown, Conn., have arrived. We welcome them as old friends.	-
The American Elocutionist.
Racine, Wis., Sept. 20,1872. Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M:
Dear Sir,—I take this opportunity of gratefully acknowledging the receipt of “ The American Elocutionist and Dramatic Reader.” Having examined the work most thoroughly, I think it emintly worthy the title you have given it. The Introduction on Elocution and Vocal Culture by Prof. M. B. Brown is certainly the result of careful investigation and extensive research, and entirely consistent with the laws of nature; it will be found valuable to all persons desirous of cultivating the voice either for speaking or singing. The selections are chaste, and many of them new. On the whole, I think the book has merits sufficient to sustain it beyond competition.
Yours truly,
'	J. K. McAfferty,
Late Prof, of Elocution at Racine Col.
A party of young artists on their way to the studio, were asked where they were going, whereupon one brighteyed lad answered: “We’re going canvassing.”
Several of our young Nimrods went “duckhunting” not long since, and returned with—a woodcock and a chipmonk. We would advise them to tiy it later in the season.
1

30
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Society Reports’.
'	ST. GREGORY’S SOCIETY.
The St Gregory’s Society held its first monthly meeting of the current year on the 27th inst, for the purpose of reorganization. The object of the Society is the performance of the music required in the church. The following officers were elected for the ensuing session;
President—Very Rev. A. Granger.-	.
Director—Prof. 0. A. B. Von Weller.
Secretary—F. Devoto.
Treasurer—O. Waterman.
Librarian—F. Egan.	•	‘
First Censor—J. McGlynn.
Second Censor—P. Cooney.	.
The Society numbers thirty-two members.
.	.	F. B. Devoto, Secretary.
ST. CECILIA PHILOMATHEAN association.
The 1st regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held Tuesday evening, Sept. 24th, 1872. At this meeting the’electicn^pf officers for the ensuing session took place, aud resulted as follows:
Director—Rev. A. Lemonnier. C.S.C.
President—Prof. J. A. Lyons. A.M
Vice President—L. O. Hibben.
“	“	Historic Branch—J. P. Devine.
“	“	Dramatic Branch—F. A. Egan.
Secretary—J. P. Quill.
Corresponding Secretary—J. A. Shanks.
Treasurer—R. L. M Hutchings.
librarian—F. L. McOsker.
Assistant Librarian—T. C. Graves.
Monitor—J. Campbell.
Assistant Monitor—J. Ewing,
First Censor— W. S. Meyer.
Second “	V. McKinnon.
Third “	H. H. Hunt.	'
Fourth “	0. G. Waterman.
Marshal—J. Dunne.
Sergeant at arms—L. Whitaker.
After a few remarks made by the President the meeting adjourned. .	J. Shanks, Cor. Sec.
,	Salmagundi.
Foot-ball is quite popular.
Grape pie is rather “ seedy.” “ We twied to conwince him.”
We have a few six-footers at last. ,
The Library is being put in order. .
Don’t call nicknames—it is vulgar. /
“ Let’s go to de oder end of de boat.”	.
A few flakes of snow fell last Sunday.
■ Alley-bale has its admirers as usual.
The 13th will fell on Sunday this year.
■; Christmas comes on. Wednesday this year. .
Autumn is with us—winter fest approaching.
. The season for “ chills ” is drawing to a close.
Laziness is the vulgar name for “ spring fever.” Where’s the white lady that does whitewashing?
Who was the young man that wished to study “ library.”
Don’t believe every report or rumor you may chance to hear.
We have a Minim graduate this year—for particulars see-Dr. Lundy.
A certain river in Wisconsin is said to be so shallow that the fish have to stand on their heads to drink.
Titf. two trees that were “ pining ” in front of the college have pined away out of sight.
Cornelius a Lapide says: Causa causar um miserere met were the last words of Cicero.
Rev. Father Ford is reported to be in good health and spirits.	•
The extra recreation last Monday was heartily enjoyed by Professors and students.
The gunners are plenty but the game is .apparently scarce as yet.
The sunflowers in the Botanical Garden are beginning to droop—they have lost their golden hue.	’
The swings are in constant use during the recreations, but we have heard of no “ big jumps ” yet.
Many young men are so improvident that they cannot keep anything but late hours.
It has been found that in nearly every civilized countiy the tree that bears the most fruit for market is the axle-tree.
A governess advertising for a situation says “ she is a perfect mistress of her own tongue.” What a curiosity! • -
The afternoon walks on recreation days are not so popular as they were during the melon season.
Man has been defined as a “ biped without feathers." If the definition was intended to include the fairer portion of the human family it was certainly a failure.
Apples have been quite scarce (in the orchard) for some time past, but certain individuals manage to find one or two more.	.
Bro. Thomas thinks the students are considerably inclined to pie-ty, and are remarkably candi-ed. The Doc- < tor thinks they are too much so for their health’s sake.
What is there Jn -a looking-glass so very interesting that many persons spend so great a portion of their time admiring it? It is not surely a mirror of thought, for it too often reflects the very opposite.
An apprentice sailor fell from the round-top to the deck, stunned, but little hurt. The captain exclaimed in surprise, “Why, where did you come from?” “From the North of Ireland, yer honor,” was the prompt reply as the poor fellow gathered himself up. -	•
Brain-work costs more food than hand-work. According to careful estimates and analyses of the excretions, three hours of hard study wear out the body more than a whole day of severe physical labor. Another evidence of the cost of brain-work is obtained from the fact that, though the brain is only one fortieth the' weight of the body, it receives about one-fifth of all the blood sent by the heart into the system. Brain-workers therefore require a more liberal supply of food, and richer food, than manual laborers.	,
THE. SCHOLASTIC.
81;
SAINT MAST’S A0ASE.MT.
Saint Mary’s Academy, October, 3, 1872.
The pupils having now become used to the routine of the house, all pass from one duty to another with ease and promptitude, apply themselves steadily and cheerfully to their task, and each one seems determined to do credit to herself.
. The large number of pupils now in attendance here is, daily increasing, and this bids fair to be, in every respect, a prosperous session. The work of improvement goes steadily on, but not quite fast enough to meet the demands for more room. The wooden building known as the “.Old Academy” was to have been entirely demolished, but it was found necessary to retain at least two thirds of the same until the proposed buildings north of the Academy can be erected.
St. Cecilia’s Exhibition Hall will be used for elocutionary exercises, and on festal occasions for musical and thespian performances.
A temporary chapel has been fitted up in the new building. Loretto chapel is heated with steam. A change has been made in regard to the Tablet of Honor. Every pupil whose notes entitle her to the distinction of being named among the most exemplary will have her name enrolled on the Tablet of Honor, as the number of such pupils is too large to admit of their being seated as formerly, at the Table of Honor. The Religious and Literary Societies are all organized.
It is hoped that the Graduates and First Seniors will soon give evidence of their vitality by publishing their respective papers. ’Tis supposed the “ Gossip ” will continue to gossip, but under what cognomen will the First Seniors express themselves ?
All letters addressed to persons at St. Mary’s Academy sh ould be directed to, St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, P. 0., St. Joseph Co., Ind. It is superfluous to put “South Bend” on said letters, as St. Mary’s Academy is not at South Bend. Correspondents please take note of this.
Next week will appear the names of those who deserve honorable mention in Music, Painting, Drawing, and the Languages. Respectfully, ■	Stylus.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
September Wfh.—E. Richardson, A. Smith, L. Tinsley, M. Faxon, E. Parker, L. . Harrison, F. Lloyd, A. Walsh, M. Hepp, A. Gollhardt, M. Martin, N.Vigil, E. Lang, M. Brown, M. Walsh, J. Thompson, M. Thompson, B. Hessler, E. Hessler, A. Noel, M. Reynolds, M. Booth, A. Paulsen, E. Jackson, E. Lappin, M. Ewing, A. Ewing, D. Allen, L. Walsh, M. Hughes, C. Hughes.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN ENGLISH STUDIES—SR. DPT.
Graduating Class.—Misses B. Crowley, L. King, K. Zell, C. Walker, A. Shea.
First Senior.—Misses A. M. Clark, D. Green, L. Black, M. Brown, M. Comer, G. Crapser.
S econd Senior.—Misses A. Lloyd, L. Ritchie, J. Tucker M. Letourneau, A. Church.
Third Senior.—L. Weinreich, J. Noonan, E. Boyce, A. Reid.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Second Senior Class.—Miss E. Richardson.
Second Preparatory.—Misses A. Walsh, F. Lloyd.
First Junior.—Misses M. Brown, M. Reynolds, K. Lloyd.
Second Junior.—Misses E. Lappin, M. Ewing, A. Ewing, E. Hessler, M. Lowrey, M. Ware.
Third Junior.—Misses M. Hughes, C. Hughes, A. Green, N. Cox, N. Lloyd.
Society Reports.
st. teresa’s literary.
Last Wednesday afternoon, (Sept. 25th,) the members of Saint Teresa’s Literary Society held their first annual meeting of the session. The rules were read, after which 'the election of officers took place. The following young ladies were chosen;
President—A. Shea.
Vice President—L. Black.
Secretary—L. West.
Corresponding Secretary—^1. Cochrane.
Treasurer—J. Walker.
Librarian—V. Ball.
M. Cochrane, Cor. Sec.
ARRIVALS.
Miss E. Hagerty,	St. Paul, Minnesota.
“ H. McMahon,	Chicago, Illinois.
“ A. Rose,	Chicago, Illinois.
“ M. Carlin,	Chicago, Illinois.
TABLET OF HONOR.
X FOR POLITE AND AMIABLE DEPORTMENT—SR. DPT.
Misses K. Zell, A. Shea, K. Haymond, B. Crowley, L. King, G. Walker, M. Lange, M. Cochrane, L. Niel, M. Kearney, A. Clarke, N. Gross, V. Ball, R. D.evoto, M. Brown, R. Spiers, D. Green, G. Crapser, M. Comer, L. Black, M. Langdon, J. Kearney, M. Prince, I. Wilder, A. Church, S. Shipley, G. Walton, L. James, E. White, J. Fanning,- A. Kelme, A. Clarke, A. Weinreich, J. Noonan, E. Boyce, M. Roberts, F. Rush, L. Ritchie, E. Ives, E. Quinlan, L. Beckman, A. Reid, M. E. Roberts, C. German, M. Holcomb, M. Dillon, I. Hatch, D. Simmons, J. Valdez, R. Manzanares, A. Tucker, R. Klar, L. Scheifer, M. Kelly, H. Foote.
According to the census of 1870, the total number of schools in the United States was 141,629; the number of -teachers, 221,042, of whom 93,329 were males, and 127,713 females. The total number of pupils was 7,209,938,—3,621,-996 being males, and 3,587,942 female. The total income of all the schools was $95,404,726, of which §3,663,785 came from endowments, §61,746,039 from taxation, and §29,992,902 from all other sources, including tuition. The total income reported is nearly three times that for 1860, and nearly six times that for 1850. It is considered quite impossible that there should have been any such increase; and the apparent augmentation is, without doubt, referable to a failure on the part of the former census officials to secure complete returns. Of the total number of schools reported, the public schools were 125,059, classical, professional, and technical 2545, and others, 14,025. The total number of teachers in the public schools was 183,198; and in the classical, professional, technical, 12,767. The number of pupils in the latter class was 245,190, and in the public schools, 6,228,069.
32
the scholastic:.
The Paducah News tells this story, for the truth of which it vouches: A professional gentleman, well known in this city, had not seen his son for a long period of time, owing to the fact that the latter retired to bed ere the former
returned home, and in the morning the father always left before the son got out of bed. One morning the lady of the house managed to get the father and son together at the breakfast table, and by way of a joke remarked: “ Son, let me introduce you to your father.” “ How do you do father?” said the hopeful; “I don’t remember ever having met you before, but I have heard ma speak of you.”
Fll Keep ’em Awake.—Near Newark lived a pious family who had adopted an orphan who by the way was ratherunderwitted. Hehadimbibedstrictviewsonrellgious matters, however, and once asked his adopted mother if she didn’t think it wrong for old farmers to come to church and fall asleep, having no better regard to the service. She replied she did. Accordingly before going to church the next Sunday he filled his pockets with apples. One bald-headed, old man, who invariably went to sleep during the sermon, particularly attracted his attention. Seeing him at last nodding, and giving usual evidence of being in the “land of dreams,” he took the astonished sleeper a blow with an apple on the top of his bald pate. The minister and aroused congregation at once turned around and indignantly gazed at the boy, who merely said to the preacher, with a sober, honest expression of countenance, “ You preach; Til keep’ em awake!”
WOOD’S HOUSEHOLD MAGAZINE.
AGENTS may learn something greatly to their advantage and obtain specimens and full particulars free, by addressing.
Wood’s Litebaby and Abt Agency,
Newburgh, New York.
<
Chicago, Alton and St. Louis Line.
SWRAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via Jacksonville, DI., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Main Line,
St. Louis and Springfield Lightning Express, via Main Line, ana also via Jacksonville Division Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, DI., ana Louisiana, Mo.
LEAVE. ABBTVB.
♦9:15 a.m. *8:00 p.m.
«
♦9:15 a.m.
♦9:15 a.m.
♦4:10 p.m.
+6:30 p.m.
$9:00 p.m.
$9:00 p.m.
*4:30 p.m.
*4:30 p.m.
*9:40 a.m.
*4:30 p.m.
B7:15 a.m.
§7:15 a.m.
I
1
* Except Sunday, t On Sunday runs to Springfield only. $ Except Saturday. B Dail y. § Except Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Pining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Superintendent,
CHICAGO.	CHICAGO.
PENNSYLVANIA CENTRAL
DOUBLE TEA0K BAILE0AD.
Advertise in The Scholastic.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
We have concluded to take a limited number of choice advertisements this year, should our business friends conclude to patronize us in this department. '	-
This arrangement, however, win not interfere with the reading matter, as we propose printing the advertisements on a separate sheet, to serve as a cover to the present Scholastic. This will be done as soon as a sufficient number of advertisements are secured.
ADVEBTXSING BATES.
1 page........;.....§150	i column.............§	30
1 column............. 80	% column............ 18
% column............. 50	11-16 column........ 10
Advertisements for a shorter time than one year, at proportionate rates. Address Editob Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.
UNIVERSITY OP N0TBE DAME, INDIANA.
. Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.
Situated near the Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana Bailroad,
it is easy of access from ail parts of the United States.
TERMS:
Matriculation Fee, -	--	--	--	-	5	$ 5 00
Board, Bed and Bedding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing
and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, -	- 150 00
French, German, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, - 10 00 Instrumental Music, -	--	--	--	--	12 50
Use of Piano, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-10 00
Use of Violin, ----------	-	200
Drawing, -	-.-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-15 00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, -	-	-	-	5 00
Graduation Fee—Commercial, $5; Scientific, $8; Classical, - 16 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are
charged, extra, -	-	.	-	-	- '-	-	-	-	35 00
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class Books, Stationery, etc., at current prices.
The First Session begins on the first Tuesday of September; the Second on the 1st of February.
_For farther particulars, address
Rev. A. LEMONNIER, C.S.C.,
• President.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New
York without Change.
1st train leave Chicago 9.00 p. m Arrive at New York 11.30 a. m*
2d train	“	“	5.15 p. m	“	“	6.41 a. m*
3rd train	“	•“	9.00 p. m	“	“	11.30 p. m*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and at Mannsfield with trains on Atlantic and Great Western Bailroad.
J. N. McCOLLOUGH, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
H. W. GWINNER, Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Philadelphia.
F. B. MYERS, Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Pittsburgh.
♦ Second day.
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
SIMMER ARRANGEMENT
rpBAINS now leave South Bend as follows:	-
GOING
Leave South Bend	11 30 a.	m.
“	“	12.53 p.	m.
“	“	9.18 p.	m.
“	“	’	12 35 a:	m.
“	“	8.50	p.m.
GOING
Leave	South Bend 4 30 p. m.
“	“	3.15 a. m.
“	“	4.40 a. m.
“	“	558 p. m.
“	“	6.35 a. m.
EAST.
Arrive at Buffalo 4.25 a.m
4 30 a. m 2.00 p. m 5.25 p. m
6 50 p. m
WEST.
Arrive at Ch
cago 8.00 p. m, ‘	6.50	a.	m
‘	7.25	a.	m
‘	10.00	p.	m
‘	10.30	a.	m
Making connection with all trains West and North.
Fqr full details, see tho Company’s posters and time tables at the depot and other public places.
.©5F-Trains are run by Cleveland time, which is 15 minntes faster than South Bend time.___
J. H. DEVEBEUX, General Manager, Cleveland, Ohio.
CHARLES PAINE, General Superintendent, Cleveland.
J. W. Caby, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio,
J. S. Nellis, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
J, M. Tolchabd, Freight Agent, South Bend.
.	NEW ALBANY CROSSING.	.
To Lafayette and Louisville.
Going North—Express passenger, 6.09 p. m.; 8.58 a. m.; 5.29 a.m.
Freights, 6.30 a. m.; 8.06 p.m. .
Going South—Express passenger, 8.58 a. m.; 10.46 a. m.; 9.25 p. m..
Freights, 1.00a.m.; 4.48a.m.	H. N. CANIFF, Agent.