The Scholastic-
pEVOTED TO THE JnTEI\ESTS OF THE pTUDENTS.
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume VIII. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 23,. 1875.	Number 18.
JNO.HAGERTW,	L. G. TONG,
City Judge.	Notary Public.
JJAGERTY & TONG-, .
ATTORNEYS-AT-L.AAV,
REAL ESTATE and INSURANCE AGENTS,
Agents for Steamship Lines.
COLLECTIONS SOLICITED.
9 Odd Fellows’ Block. -	- South Bend, Indiana.
o24-ly
Before going elsewhere, go to
ES. PECKS,	.
.	Dealer m
HATS, CAPS, TRUNKS,
Boys’ Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods.
Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., o24-tf	South Bend, Indiana.
£) J. HOLLAND, & Co., Wholesale Manufacturers of
HAVANA AND DOMESTIC CIGARS,
—ALSO—
WHOLESALE JOBBERS and GENERAL DEALERS IN SMOKERS' ARTICLES.
tOO MICHIGAN St.. - SOUTH BEND IND., o24-tf.
£ E. CUMMINS,
' DENTIST, .
No. -96 Michigan Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
(Over Wyman’s.)	o24-lm
. Do you want a drive ? Go to
J^EN COQUILLARD’S
. LIVERY STJLBLES i Corner of Michigan and Jefferson Streets, .	South Bend, Indiana.
o24-2m
THE
BOND HOUSE,
Niles, -	-	_	-	_ Michigan.
A. McKAY, Proprietor.
Free Hack to and from all trains, for guests of the house nov28-%tf, _
Jg NICAR & Co.,
* HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
118 MICHIGAN St., -	-	- SOUTH BEND, INDIAN A
HEADQUARTERS FOB
Cutlery, Skates, Cartridges, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.*
Desk-Locks, Padlocks, Japanned Boxes, etc., ________________________________________o24-tf y NICAR,
* DEALER IN HARDWARE,
91 MICHIGAN St., - -	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
ALL SORTS OF	’	...
Cutlery, Tale Desk-Locks, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.
—ALSO—	.
Skates, Cartridges, Tin Trunks, Etc.
.	o2Ltf
J. STAGE, •	•
’ COUNTY SURVEYOR,
Is now prepared to execute work in the Departments of
. Land Surveying, Grading, Hydraulics, etc.
^“Orders expeditiously attended to.^^
Office with M. Stover, Boom 22, over Wills & Sterns, Washington St., South Bend, Indiana.
nov 28-% tf.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
fSoiitli Bend, Indiana.
At the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railway Depot, opposite Studebakers’ Wagon Works.	.
THOSE who patronize the National Hotel will find during their stay at South Bend all the comforts of home. Conveyances io and from the College and St. Mary’s can be procured at the Hotel.
AUGUSTUS F. BAKER, Proprietor.
nov 7-8m	-
Q.EORGE HEHR,
FASHIONABLE TAILOR,
AND GENERAL DEALER IN
Cloths, Cassimeres and Vestings.
No. Ill MICHIGAN STDEET, - SOUTH BEND, IND. (UpStairs.)	%o24-tf.
M. A. smith.	E. P" Halloway.
SMITH & HOLLOWAY,
Dealers in .
BOOKS, STATIONERY, FANCY GOODS, Chromos, Pictures, Notions, Toys and Musical Instruments.
No. 77, Washington St.,
SOUTH BEND, IND, ^decE-%8a
242
SCHOLASTIC,;
J>ALSIER & VanWINKLE,
•	Dealers in
' CONFECTIONERIES,
Musical Instruments, Gold Pens, School aud Miscellaneous Books, Stationery, Slates, Inks, Newspapers, Periodicals, Magazines, Etc.
Special attention paid to filling orders for Stndents. o24-lf
p DUBAIL,
* BARBER AND HAIRDRESSER,
71 Washington St., ... South Bend, Ind.
Mr. Dubail spares uo pains to make his work satisfactory. He will be in attendance every Wednesday at the College, at 9 o’clodk A M., to attend to all students desiring his services.	'	o24-tf
■0R. 0. H. MIDDLETON,
DENTIST,
109 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana.
oM-tf
^DWARD BUYSEE,
Dealer in
. WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELRY, Etc.,
76 Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana. Repairing promptly done, and all work warranted. 54-tf
A HANAUER,
Nos. 32 & 34 Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana.
Dealer in -
READY-MADE CLOTHING,
GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS, STAPLE AND FANCY DRY GOODS.
All goods sold are guaranteed.	o24-tf
Students wishing well made Clothing should go to gUZBY & GALLAGHER, CLOTHIERS,
. MERCHANT TAILORS,
AND DEALERS IN
Gents’ Furnishing Goods, HATS, CAPS, &c.
■Ho. 109 MICHIGAN St., - SOUTH BEND, IND. o24-2m
E. MAYR,	'
Engraver, Watchmaker and Jeweller,
105 Michigan St., -	-	- South Bend, Ind.
Special attention given to FINE ENGRAVINGS, in Script and Old English, on Watches, Rings and Badges.
_	decl-^tf.
JRELAND & SON,
'PROPRIETORS OP	•
LIVERY AND FEED STABLE,
No. 54. MICHSGAN SI,	- SOUTH BEHR, IHD.,
^Opposite the Dwight Bouse). -—o---------
HACK JUNE
To and from all trains to the Dwight House or any part of the City, . and to the College and St. Mary's.	J^o24 2ni
“THE NINE CENT STORE!”
---0--
DROP IN AT
“THE NINE CENT STORE!”
AND -
See the Curiosities.
No. 114 Michigvn Stbeet, - South Bend, Indiana. Jgo24-tf.
THE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIGHT HOUSE,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the above popular and reliable Hous-e, renovated, repaiied and furnished it with new, first class furniture, .’ihe travelling public may rely on finding the best accomu odation.	■
Ladies and uentlemen vi-iting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here all the comforts of hon e duriris: their stay,
JERRY-KN.GHT, lProDrietor8 Captain mills, f «oprietors-
POPULAR CLOTHING HOUSE!
---o--
M. LIVINGSTON & CO!,
94 JMicliigan St., Sontli Bend, Ind.,
We invite the attention of the public to our large stock of
FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING
—AND—
FFKINISIIINTGI GIOODS,
OUR stock is always large and carefully selected, and everything you want in our Line will always be found on our shelves.
Our Full DRESS SUITS show an amount of pains-takine scaacely ever seen in Ready-Vade or Custom Work. The Prices are MUCH LESS than the same material would cost if made to measure. Money is scarce but Clotliing is Clrcap. If you don’t believe it, drop in ana see our Goods and Prices. .
Our Merchant Tailoring Department
is in full blast. We have a full Stock of Clotlis. Cassi-meres and ‘Vestings, and we turn out the best Fits. We sell for Cash, and our Prices are about-One Third Lower than any other house in the business.	o24-tf.
ICECREAM! SODA WATER! OYSTERS!
For the Best Confectionery, go to
ED. GILLEN’S RESTAURANT,
99 MAIN STREET, -	-	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
MEALS AT ALL HOURS!
Fruits, Nuts, Confectionery, and Choice Cigars,
ALWAYS ON HAND!	•
Fresh Candies .Made Daily.
J$c24-tf
Scholastic:
pEVOTED TO THE
OF THE pTUDENTS.
Disee quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras xiioritTiiais.
Volume VIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 23, 1875.
Number 18.
' Ghistone’s Lament.
BT J. M. J. G.
I.
<c 0 sad is the fate of a placeman upset!
The odor of Fame like a tench is • When Britain’s Lycurgus stands out in the wet, Though in sight of the Treasury benches!
A Liberal, I, in this liberal day,
Have lost my exalted position;
Discontentedly biting my hails, I stray
In the cold shades of Opposition, ir.
“May the dickens fly away with John of Tuam, Though others have loud denounced me, He’s my Old Man of the Mountain,—to him
I owe that my party has “ bounced” me 1 ’Twas he that aroused the Hibernian breeze
That caught my proud sail in a “green squall”— “ Ye’ll get up,” says he, “ with the Tory fleas, If you lie with the Liberal dogs, at all! ” in.
“I hoped that Dublin would back me up, well
I trusted Westminster would endorse me I But they joined in th’ infernal Hibernian yell;
And entered the race to unhorse me!
2%ey, Liberals!—bah!—They are no such a thing, For, who but a vagabond high Tory rogue
Could over my hideous discomfiture sing,
And call me—proh! pudorl—Ould Judas na Pogue!
IV.	'
By Solon and Bion, Lycurgus, Justinian,
Ye dogs Ultramontane, I’ll fix—I’ll impale ye!
I’ll swear that each man of ye all is a Fenian,— “ No Popery! I’ll shout as loud as Disraeli!	'
Let Exeter Hall and sweet Shaftesbury’s crew Forget puny Russell and Durham !
I’ll roar ye, sweet bigots, till all is blue, And our Protestant horse, 0 I’ll spur him!
v.
“ Does Mannino forget I’m a real Double First, Still hated by pitiful, pigmy prigs ;
Didn’t Bab Macaulay, in a truthful burst, Call me the “ rising hope of the Whigs ! ”
Does Manning forget I wrote a book—
(It was printed, too)—on “ Church and State,” After all that, shall a Bishop’s crook, -Make me afraid to expostulate ?'
VI.
- “ Great measures make statesmen. Don’t you know
I care not a snap for Paddy’s whine:— In spite of that Disestablishment blow, ’ I believe the Irish State Church is divine !— The time has come for some small relief
Which should make Paddy grateful for niAil,
I crushed, pious Protestants’ State belief, For fear of our rascals at home and Repeal.
VII.
“My chances are gone: I am getting old: Whalley’s place is vacant: I’ll step in.
If I can’t be Premier I’ll be prime scold, And howl at Newdegate’s Man of Sin 1
Pll beat Disraeli at his own game, The wily dog of a Jew I hate!— My ‘Expostulation’ will bring me fame, And my trick shall new votes postulate.”
Thomas Chatterton. ' '
“ I thought of Chatterton, the marvellous boy, 1 The sleepless soul that perished in his pride.” —Wordsworth.	■
There lived in London in the latter part of the last century, a boy-poet, whose writings, or rather impostures, caused a great controversy in the literary world. That boy was Thomas Chatterton. Some poems written by him at the early age of eleven are not inferior to those of Pope at the age of twelve, or Cowley at the age of fifteen; and his imitations of the antique, at the age of fifteen or sixteen, showed such vigor of thought and facility of ver- ‘ silication, to say nothing of their antique character, as to puzzle the most learned men of the day, and to stamp him. as a poet of the first order.	•
Thomas Chatterton, the son of a schoolmaster, was bom in Bristol. November 20,1752. He was educated at a-charity school, where he was taught nothing but English, ■ writing, and accounts. At the age of fourteen he was ap--prenticed to an attorney. He was passionately attached to heraldry, antiquities, and poetry, and was very ambitious of distinction. As lie said,his ruling passion.was-“ unconquerable pride?’ In October, 1768, at the opening-of the New Bridge at Bristol, there appeared a poem entitled “ A Descripton of the Flyer’s first passing over the’Old Bridge,” which the author in an introductory letter to the’ printer states to have been copied from an ancient manu- -script. It excited great attention, and was traced to Chat-, terton, who stated that it had been written by a monk; named Thomas Rowley, a poet of the 15th century. Chat-, terton’s ancestors had long held the position of sextons of St. Mary’s Church, Redcliffe, Bristol, in the muniment room-of which were several chests, among them one belonging to one Mr. Canynge, a merchant of Bristol, who in the reign of Edward IV rebuilt the church. In 1727, this chest was* broken open by the authorities and all the papers of value taken out, but a great number of manuscripts were left. Chatterton’s father, whose uncle was sexton, carried off a great number of these; and from those left, Chatterton-
844
THE SCHOLASTIC.
claimed to have taken these poems, and he said that they had been written by Mr. Canynge, and his friend Thomas Rowley, a monk. He presented a citizen, fond of heraldry, with a pedigree which carried his name up to the Conquest; a religious gentleman with a fragment of a sermon on the Divinity of the Holy Spirit, by Thomas Rowley; a third was favored with a poem called the “ Romaunt of the Cnyghte,” written by an ancestor 400 years before.
Chatterton sent to Horace Walpole, who was writing the History of British Painters, an account of the eminent “ Carvellers and Pryncters ” who had flourished in Bristol. Gray and Mason, to whom Walpole showed this account, pronounced it to be a forgery. On this a warm controversy ensued, in which all the prominent literary men of the. day took part, some claiming that the poems were Written by the monk Rowley, others contending that they . were forgeries of Chatterton.	'
In April, 1770, Chatterton went to London. At first he seemed to be greatly encouraged by his engagements with the booksellers, but not succeeding in obtaining an appointment he desired, he lost all hope of success, and at length was found dead in his bed, August, 25th 1770, from the effects of a dose of arsenic. He was at the time of his death seventeen years, nine months, and five days old.
“No English poet,” says Campbell, “ equalled him at the same age.” His principal poems are: The Tragedy of Ella, The Execution of Sir Charles Bawdin, The Ode to Ella, The Battle of Hastings, The Tournament, Our two Decalogues, and’ The Description of Canynge’s Feast. These, he said,-were written by the monk Rowley.
The poetry he wrote under his own name is inferior to that which he said Rowley wrote. The principal feature of Chatterton’s poetry is his power of picturesque painting. His satirical and town effusions are often in bad taste, yet they show a wonderful command of language. As I mentioned above, the writings of Chatterton raised a warm discussion. Chatterton had so thoroughly imitated the peculiarities of ancient manuscripts, the grammar, the spelling, and the modes of thought, that the poems seemed certainly to be genuine; but the poetry was of so superior an order that that the critics were sorely puzzled. “ If it failed most in what it affected to be,” said Horace Walpole, “apoet of the 15th century, it was because it qouldnot imitate whatnever had existed.” “This youth” said Warton, “ was a prodigy of genius; and would have proven the first of English poets, had he reached a mature age.” “ Chatterton’s was a genius,” said Knox, “like that of Homer and Shakespeare, which appears not above once in many centuries.” Warton, in summing up the authenticity of the Rowley poems, says: “ However extraordinary it was for Chatterton to produce them in the 18th century, it is impossible that Rowley could have written them in the 15th. Chatterton seemed to take delight in thus deceiving the world, and he thought it a greater pleasure than that of gain. He had not a confidant, but worked in secret, gratified only by “ the stoical pride of talent.” He doubtless thought that he could gain greater praises by these indirect means; and he sacrificed the vanity of appearing an origi-ginal author, to the enjoyment of the success^of his inventions and dexterity. Sir Walter Scott said, speaking of Chatterton: “Nothing could be more extraordinary than the delight which Chatterton appears to have felt in executing these numerous aud multifarious impositions. His ruling passion was not the vanity of a poet who depends upon the opinions of others for his gratification, but
the stoical pride of talent, which felt satisfied in the solitary contemplation of superiority over the dupes who fell into his. toils.” In a word, Chatterton was a poet who took delight in deceiving others, not in striving for wealth or fame; he was one who despised the world, and tried in every possible way to make it his dupe. Yet all allow that’ he was a genius of the very first order, and if he had lived, that he would have attained a high rank in the literary world, and would, under the guidance of sound principles and a well-regulated mind, have added many treasures to the English language.	-J. G. E.
Essays on Elvers Matters.
-	BY J. M. J. G.
No. I.—Elocution.
In my opinion there is a deal of humbug in the world which is accepted by sensible people, simply because they do not wish to reflect. Look at Oratory, for instance. You may fill whole libraries with rhetorical tomes, and, ten to one if the whole collection suggest one practical hint on the matter under discussion. It is true, gesticulation is set forth with anatomical exactness. We have la motion concentriquo and la motion excentrirpie of the hand, or, rather, of the very tips of the fingers, but all this, I dare assert, may be known, and yet an individual be far from justified in writing himself down “ orator ad nmguem.”
In Greece and Rome, oratory was carried to a high pitch of excellence. Since the days of Demosthenes and Cicero every age has had its orators, but Grecian and Roman eloquence still occupies the first place. It is the same with respect to the sister arts, Poetry and Sculpture. Homer and Virgil, Phidias and Praxiteles have left works which all ages have admired as masterpieces. Ordinary genius has stood baffled before those splendid conceptions of antiquity so far beyond ils,powers. Even Painting, that other form of oratory, which owes its superiority to Christian inspiration, esn boast but little beside the sublime-fragments which remain as a proof of the genius of Apelles.
The reason of this superiority is, I think, quite evident. The ancients studied Nature profoundly and left theories and principles of art to critics and metaphysicians. Art, of course, has its principles, its theories; but the genius of antiquity grasped, with intuitive power, all that was necessary for the expression of the Beautiful, which has been well termed “ the splendor of the True.” The simplicity of the child reads Nature naturally: the theorist defaces her with -a thousand abstractions. A child would give a Fiji a better idea of ice than could Plato or Aristotle, and in this childlike, natural simplicity consists the superiority of ancient over modern art. Ruskin deplores the striking debasement pf art in this century. But it would be strange if it were otherwise; for in our day, not only the tribes but the prophets, not only the crowd but the Segregati, are skipping madly around the Golden Calf. The world has always been a fostermother to wealth and a stepmother to genius.
The wonderful power of eloquence, it should be remembered, is not so much in the orator as in his subject. - A real, heaven-inspired speaker needs no rules. Red Jacket, that aboriginal word-magician, sat not under Bellew, neither listened he to Mistress Antony, yet he almost succeeded in forming an Indian Confederation of every tribe in .North America; and the United States Commissioners,
THE SCHOLASTIC
245
With the British agents, acute and clever men of an advanced • civilisation, freely confessed that the untutored savage was head and shoulders above any orator of modern times. Honest old Andrew Jackson, who did in Louisiana what Mephistopheles the Little is undoing, swore that Red Jacket had more brains than the whole United States
Senate.
There is a something—a je ne sais quoi-—lying above and beyond every orator, which elevates him as the mighty waveof the ocean raises the frail bark floating upon its bosom. Innumerable men and events conspire to make the orator; like a cloud heavily charged with electricity, a nation gathers in, from ten thousand channels, a latent power which agitates the popular mind without assuming any deflnite form. At last there appears a man a little wiser than his fellows, who studies the current of popular thought, of national aspiration, thinks patiently until he has grasped the subject and made it his own, and then speaks. Like a spark falling upon powder, his wTord causes a tremendous explosion. The pent-up national thought has found its expression, and the speaker is saluted as a heavenly oracle.
There are some men who drift through life without a hope, or thought, or wish, beyond the present hour; but they make up the very small minority of the human family. They are harmless, worthless nonentities, unworthy the name they disgrace; for with men, to hope, to toil and to desire, are agencies absolutely essential to their progress towards the purest and best ideals. It is only when they pervert these agencies to an all-absorbing greed, that they discover .they have been undermining the walls of a temple whose fall must surely crush them. And thus it happens that the former class grow dull, and torpid, and worse than useless through the want of danger, and darkness and sorrow, while their more enterprising neighbors have suffered destruction from the excess of the same power.
Men are not evil from inclination so frequently as from the pressure of circumstances. There, perhaps, never lived a human being in whose soul never dwelt the impulses and monitions to a better, more exalted fife; warnings and promptings which, if heeded, would form the ideal of a great and good m ui out of one who is now content to associate with the vilest outcasts of his race. We are prone to expend our energy in scoruiug and contempt for wickedness, never reflecting that it is with min as it is with trees,—if you abrade the surface of some vigorous branch into which the youug energy of the tree is pouring its vital life-currents the incisure will encrust itself with . some rough boss, and that which might have been a graceful bough throwing out its luxuriant foliage and inviting shade, becomes an oddly-distorted and repulsive member. The tree is not to blame, nor is the branch, for they have both done their part to wards repairing the disaster; but the excrescence remains the same, offensive to the sight, because contrary to the established laws of beauty. And thus it frequently is. with men who have plunged into iniquity. Their lives have been distorted and deformed by some great sorrow or some great injustice, just at the critical moment when they were beginning to expand under the powerful influence of dawning summer. We laugh at the eccentricities and mock the oddities of our neighbors, never heeding that those whimsical deformities may be the scars of some
great calamity which has swept across the pathway of a noble life and wrecked its fair and plenteous aspirations; and that this rugged exterior may be the repository of a noble but broken heart.
It is our duty to be-liberal and generous evento those who appear to us narrow-minded and uncharitable, for we cannot fathom the motions which actuate them, and we can never be called to sit in judgment on their seeming delinquencies. We may denounce the evil of which they have been guilty, and it is our duty so to do; but charity forbids that we extend our antipathy to the creature who may be the victim of some hard sorrow, and far mor® worthy of our pity and sustenance. Little acts of kindness, growing from the great principle of charity, are silent influences which often serve to heal wounds, that,left alone, would result in death—sorrows whose only balm is kindness. Were you to ask the rose what becomes of its fragrance, it would only answer: “ It has departed on the wings of the air,—I know not whither; ” cast a stone into the tranquil waters of the lake, and the waves will roll onward and away beyond our sight, and only cease when they reach the distant, perhaps, invisible shore; so it is with the influence and example of kindness and Christian charity, their order adds beauty and renews the vitality of the atmosphere around and beyond us, and their little waves roll silently away on their beautiful mission, and are caught up with loud acclaim by multitudes of bright angels on the unseen shore of immortality.	-
T. A. D.
Two Tictures.
•	THE POPE.
The Paris journal, Ze Figaro, of a late date, contains the following beautiful pen-portrait of his Holiness Pius IX, which we give our readers in full:
This man, hallowed by a moral splendor, and who has known all kinds of temporal tribulations, when once seen never can be forgotten. How bright and happy were the first years of his reign, and how little promise they gave of an unceasing martyrdom! I was at Rome when the famous speech of M. Thiers came, an electric discourse, which began by those words: “ Courage, Holy Father I1 He needed courage indeed, but it was not necessary to tell him so. That courage was equal to all his trials. At the beginning of his reign, not one of the “Facines” but would have willingly worn on his cap the words “ Viva Pio Hono !" The Roman police had nothing more to do than to protect him in his walks from the enthusiasm, of the crowd.	.
There are princes who fear to let the itinerary of their movements be known in advance to lessen the chances of •being shot at or poignarded—that of Pius IX was concealed to spare him the supplies of triumphal arches and daily ovations.
This prince had to be defended against the zeal of his subjects, and against the movements of his own heart. He used to go and preach in the first church that lay on his path, and towards which the inspiration of the moment carried him. The Christian world, unaccustomed for cen- . turies to see a Pope preaching, felt itself renovated.
And what a fine, intelligent and graceful countenance! A Roman cast of features, such as we see in many of the ancient busts in the museum of the capital. Something
fid
THE SCHOLASTIC
like a Christian Trajan. lu his gaze there is all the hallowed light of evangelical inspiration; grace and peace emanate from it—gratia et pax, those two things so much admired by the prophet. And, above all, his prestige, that t of simplicity and expansion.
If the temperature of Rome is unhealthy he will try to excuse the city for being so inhospitable to strangers. He ■will obligingly give you the best hygienic prescriptions to preserve you from the effects of the atmospheric changes, and in a flow of words, familiar, candid, falling from his lips like flakes of soft snow, and with them he would mix up sermons and deep-felt thoughts, that go direct to the heart—and all that in the tone of simple conversation, without thinking of playing a part, holding a rank, and still less producing effect.
He knows well how to hold his rank as a sovereign, yet he prefers to be a father. His house, so small to-day, and so well watched, is truly the house of the Lord. If you are four or five who have obtained a letter for an audience, you need no fear to make the snow-ball and take with you as many as you like (go to even thirty), and you will be all well received. From these audiences one does not only come away better, but quite different, and possessed by the Pope.
- If it were possible for the Holy Father to be seen by every one, how few Freethinkers would remain in the world. Who even is not affected by seeing him and hearing him, is only susceptible of being touched by a fall or a blow.
Who would not prefer to be the captive and crucified Pontiff in the Vatican than to be William, the allpowerful Emperor of Germany, conqueror, with laurel-crowned head, of Austria and of France,' alas!—for we must say so, and remember it? Who would not prefer to be the Popp, insulted and persecuted, than to be Victor Emanuel with ten crowns, king of United Italy, and on his throne in the Quirinal ?
Neither the Landwehr nor the Landsturm nor the Krupp cannon, nor the white Cuirassiers, nor the audacious Bersaglieri can keep aloof that brigand who despises kings and whose name is Death. There will be heavy accounts to render in the sixth chamber above according to the threat of Gregory XVI to the Emperor Nicholas, who grew pale under the quiet gaze and gesture of the old Pope.
The most incredulous, and those who excuse everything by raisons eCetat, the most hardened against the protestations and complaints for what is right and justice, must sometimes think of him, and it is not probable that they do so without being affected in soul and body. He, the loved and venerated old man, will sleep gently in peace and in glory, blessed for his trials, his labors and good deeds, with the cousolation of having borne up against misfortune, of having courageously accomplished his duty to the end, and of having given to the last hour of his life the example of faith and constancy to the millions of Christians of whom he was the father.
VICTOR EMMANUEL.
In a recent article in the Galaxy, Justin McCarthy draws the following portrait of the King of Italy.-
I have before me now a silver coin picked up in Savoy soon after Italy became a kingdom. Now, the head displayed on that coin is not of kingly mould. The mint has flattered its royal master much less than is usual-with such
portraits. There is the coarse, bull-dog cast of face; there are the heavy eyebrows, the unshapely nose, the hideous moustache, the receding forehead, and all the other beauties and graces of the “bloat king’s'’ countenance. Certainly the face of the coin is not bloated enough, and there? is too little amimatism displayed in the back of the head. But it gave, when it was issued, as fair an idea as a little piece of silver could well give of the head and face of Europe’s most ill-favored sovereign.
Some fifteen years ago, King Victor Emmanul visited England. He was everywhere welcomed with a cordiality of interest and admiration not often accorded to a foreign king. He Was not then nearly so bloated and burly as he is now; but even then, how marvellously ill-favored he was! How rough and coarse looking; how unattractive in manner; how brusque and uncouth in gesture and bearing ; how liable to fits of stolid silence; how utterly devoid of grace and dignity! His huge straw-colored moustache projecting about half a foot on each side of his face, was as unsightly a piece of manly decoration as ever royal countenance displayed.
Victor Emmanual is a man of gross habits and tastes, addicted to coarse and ignoble immoralitea. “The manners of a moss-trooper and the morality of a he-goat,” was the dessription which my friend, John Francis Maguire, gave, in one of his parliamentary speeches, of King Victor Emmanuel. All things considered, this was not a bad description. Moreover, it was mildness, it was compliment—nay, it was base flattery—when compared with the hideous accusations publicly and distinctly made against Victor Emmanuel by one of Garibaldi’s sons, not to speak of other accusers, and privately whispered by slanderous gossip all over Europe. The man has the coarse tastes of a sailor turned ashore after a long cruise—and such tastes are not kingly. He absolutely wants all the elements of greatness.

An Extraordinary Inscription.
The following will, we are sure, prove interesting to our readers: “Amatelli speaks,” says Schlegel, “’of astrange inscription which has puzzled scholars at Rome not a little,”' and then the great classicist goes on to quote opinions from Swankerns, Pigiatelli, D’Albert, etc., as to the real signification of the words. The matter happened thus:—An ancient excavation at Pompeii revealed at a street corner a square marble post, about three feet high, upon which were sculptured a grotesque animal and this legend:—
F0RA3 SESTO RUB ON.
Amatelli was of opinion that they referred, somewhat obscurely, to Ctesar, and that the true rendition should be “Fur es sistere ad Rubicon?' But Schlegel rejects this, and holds that the rude sculptor, in his o>vn barbarous way, really intended a compliment to Caesar, or some other Roman ruler. “Be to outsiders (barbarians) a Rubicon,” meaning a barrier they dare not pass—Disraeli's Curiosities of Literature,—Chap. VIL
Can any of our friends hit upon a plausible interpretation of this mystery ?	R.
I
—There was a small boy in Pawtucket;
He bought him an orange to suck it;
He had a long nose,
And as you may suppose, Into the orange he stuck it.

THE SCHOLASTIC.	247
[Written by the late William MeCarrell, of Louisville, Ky.]
Such beautiful, beautiful hands!
They’re neither white nor small, And you, I know, would scarcely think
That they were fair at all.
Pve looked on hands whose form and hue
A sculptor’s dream might be, Yet are these aged, wrinkled hands
More beautiful to me.
Such beautiful, beautiful hands!
Though heart were weary and sad, Those patient hands kept toiling on, That children might be glad.
E almost weep, as looking back
To childhood’s distant day, E think how those hands rested not
While mine were at their play. ’
Such beautiful, beautiful hands 1
They’re growing feeble now ;
For time and pain have left their work
On hand, and heart, and brow.
Alas! alas! the nearing time,	•
A And the sad, sad day to me,
When, ’neath the daisies, out of sight, These hands will folded be.
But 0, beyond^this shadowy damp,
Where all is bright and fair, I know full well these dear old hands
Will palms of victory bear;
Where crystal streams thro’ endless years ' Flow over golden sands,
And where the old grow young again, Fil clasp my mother’s hands.
A Geographical Dinner Party..
' The following is the answer to the Geographical puzzle given in our last issue:—A royal dinner-party was given by King William, Queen Cbarlotte.and their sons, Prince Edward, Prince of Wales, and Prince Albert. Everything was in perfect order. A Canary made sweet music for this select society, and the aroma of the Java mingling with the fragrance of the Oolong, stole upon the senses so deliciously that they declared they were Hungary and soon practically demonstrated that their appetites were Keene.
The table was elegantly set with China and Silver, and bountifully supplied with good things, such as Turkey, Cod, Sardinias, Eggs, Sandwich, Onions and other vegetables, seasoned of course with Salt and Cayenne.
They were attended by a Negro whose name was Tom, and an aged matron who wore a Hood on her head because she was Bald. A lively discussion soon ensued between Charles and Blanche, concerning the relative merits of Washington and Lincoln. Others soon joined the contest; Tunis and Augusta on one side, while Georgia and Virginia sustained the opposite. Meanwhile Florence was carrying on a great flirtation with Nelson, and so engrossed ■was she that she did not observe St. John passing her a dish containing Candia and Orange. In his attempt to gain her attention he spilled Greece on her dress. She exclaimed “ Mersey, you are a Great Bear,” to which he replied “ Gracious, you are a Darling.” The gentleman said
he was not a Man or he would not be such a Great Slave .to anyone; but the ladies were pleased with his Flattery;
they voted him Nice, and he soon became quite a Lyon. However the Concord was broken up, and the ladies, to cover their disappointment, declared they were Chili, and withdrew to the parlor, and as soon as the gentlemen had finished their Havanas and Madeira the party broke up, and bade the royal family Farewell.	. G. ;
- ' A Memorable Event. . .
We find the following interesting item, relative to th® late war, in the Louisville Catholic Advocate;	’
In the library of General Sherman’s house, in Washington there was a picture over the mantelpiece which commemorated a notable event in the history of our country. The picture represents the cabin of Admiral Porter’s flagship and the conference held there by Lincoln, Grant, Sherman and Porter, when they all met at City Point. The likeness of Lincoln is the best extant. Sherman and his army had not been heard from for some weeks, and the public knew nothing of the’ march he was making from Atlanta. When it was a certain fact that the Confederacy was crumbling and tottering to its fall, Sherman left his hosts and secretly went to meet the President at City Point, and receive from him instructions as to the terms of “Johnston’s surrender.” Mr. Lincoln was heartily sick of bloodshed, and, moreover, really loved the South as a part of his country, and only desired that they should lay down their arms, go home and become peaceable citizens. Mr. Lincoln drew up the terms, which were based upon these principles. General Grant and Admiral Porter approved. General Sherman returned to his army and closed upon Johnston’s forces; but alas! by the time the surrender came, the patriotic President was dead, slain by the hand of the assassin, and the enemies of the South endeavored to implicate them in the deed. It is on record in the War Department that the very treaty which Mr. Stanton caused to be so fiercely rejected, and for which he tried to brand General Sherman with the epithet of traitor, was the same one which Mr. Lincoln drafted, and Grant and Porter had approved.
—George Bancroft’s threat to write a “ History of the Great Rebellion” in two thousand Volumes, as a supplement to bis “History of the United States,” has concentrated public interest upon a paragraph stating that old paper dealers are only paying two and a half cents per pound.
—An honest old farmer on being informed the other day that one of his neighbors owed him a grudge, growled out: “No matter; he never pays anything.”	'
—Mary was the proprietress of a diminutive, incipient sheep, whose outer covering was as devoid of color as congealed vapor, and to all localities to which Mary perambulated, her young Southdown was morally certain to follow. It tagged her to the dispensatory of learning, one diurnal section of time, which was contrary to all precedent, and excited the cacchination of the seminary attendants when the children perceived the presence of a young quadruped at the establishment of instruction. Consequently, the preceptor expelled him from the interior, but he continued to remain in the immediate vicinity, and tarried in the neighborhood without fretfulness until Mary once mor® became visible.
.248
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Th® SchftlastiD* ■
.Published every Week during Tenn Time at NOTES DAMS UNIVERSITY. '
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic
Notre Dame, Indiana.	*
-	TERjIS:
One year.......................................$1 00
Single copies (5 Sts.) can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
• The Scholastic for the 2nd Session.
The BUbscription price of the Scholastic for the 2nd seseion of S .months is fifty cents; besides which all new subscribers are requested to send ten cents for postage, making'in all sixty cents.
Address: Editor of tub Scholastic, Notre Same P, O.. Ind.
—The Semi-Annual Examination, a most important college exercise, will take place next week. Earnest preparations have been made in all the classes, in order that the -members of them may pass through the test successfully. All of our earnest young men, those who come here for the purpose of storing their minds, deem it their duty to do the best possible at the examination, because that will tell to all, especially to their friends at home, what has been their conduct in regard to their si udies. It wiil tell more truly to the parents of the students in what manner their sons have spent their time, than would anything else inform them.
It is not necessary^ for us to state that the Examinations will be as thorough as possible, giving to each student the opportunity of displaying his ability and of giving evidence of his progress during the session. But at the same time we would caution all against that childish fear which grown-up young men often display when under examination; and not only when under examination, but which they even display before the day of trial arrives. There ia no necesssity for any to indulge in fears. The examinations are not held for the purpose of learning what a young man doesnot know, but to learn what he does know. Let every student simply do the best he can, in a frank, upright way, without ostentation and pertness, and without fear, and he has done his part. Let. him not put on the air of knowing everything, for the contrary will soon be found out. He should not be afraid to tell what he does, know nor should he work himself into such a state oi excitement as to cause him to answer wrongly'. Again we say, let him do the best be can. The notes given to him will bemsssigaed faithfully and scrupulously, and should he be so fortunate as to obtain good notes, which we hope and doubt not but that he will, let him be grateful to God who has blessed his labors And let himtake courage from this, and derive a new impetus, a new courage to strive ou until he reaches the bright goal which awaits the earnest student.
—For a number of years there has been a great discussion among the Catholic scholars as to the propriety of substituting the Christian Classics for those of the heathen. In Rome and France the controversy was carried on with great acrimony by two parties, and it has not yet altogether died out.	'
It is claimed by those favoring the Christian Classics that the great works of the early fathers, in Greek and in Latin, should be read in Catholic schools, and that all those parts of heathen literature. which treat of morality should he expunged from the works of Horace, etc., before
they are placed in the hands of Christian youth. They argue that the lives of the poets, philosophers and moralists of Greece and Rome were the reverse of what they taught in their writings; that the reading of their books tends to paganize the minds of youth aud imbue them with infidelity. For of what avail is it, they say, for teachers to show the excellence of Christian morality when the student is able to point out excellent precepts of morality in the works of the pagans, and argue that in matters of morals mere natural teaching is sufficient ?
It appears to us that their reasoning is good. We are not certain that the great revival of pagan letters which took place in the 15th century was of great service to mankind. On the contrary it brought with it much harm. From the time of this revival, there has been a constant endeavor on the part of the world - to make little of the works of Christian civilization; not always by attacks on them, but by an exclusive study and an inordinate praise of what they chose to call pagan civilization. The admirers of that civilization took full possession of literature and of art. History was made to subserve their ends, and the great deeds cf Christian warriors, statesmen and Pontiffs, were maligned; while the feats of arms performed by pagans were unduly exalted. The works of poets inspired by the spirit of Christianity were neglected and’un-dervalued, while those of the poets of Gteece and Rome were lauded to extravagance. Tlie philosophy of the heathen was studied, while that bf the great Christian philosophers were read by none save Churchmen. The grand style of architecture which was the creation of the Church, and in which she built her minsters and cathedrals, was pronounced barbarous aud Gothic, and ceased to be followed. Painting and Sculpture, which under the guidance of the Church surpassed all art of ancient times, was looked upon as unworthy of imisaiion, and art became pagan and dead. The social and political relations of antiquity were praised, to the prejudice of those institutions produced by Christianity. The Latin of the Christian authors was. condemned by the purist writers, who condemned it as barbarous.
Under these inSuenees it ceases to be wonderful that Europe should have’ lapsed into infidelity, and that the Church should lose many thousands of her children. Education having been completely paganized, it was but natural that those receiving that, education should become pagans and infidels in spirit. And all the effects of this revival of ancient letters then, culminated in the dreadful revolution in the last century which deluged France and all Europe with blood. Its effects are still to be seen in our day. It has led to heresy and Communism and to the almost complete neglect of all principles of morality.’
Happily, Catholics are beginning to see the consequences which have followed this paganizing education, and strong and manly voices are heard calling upon Catholic educators to make their education Christian. .
Why, they ask, should the Christian youth know perfectly the deeds of the soldiers of Greece and Rome and yet be ignorant of the glorious achievements of the Cat holic heroes, those heroes who carried, amidst persecutions and untold of dangers, the faith of Christ into far-distant lands ?
Mgr. Gaume has well fought the battle for the Christian classics in France. He has labored for years with his pen, urging upon the people of Catholic France to make education Christian. His work is beginning to bear their fruit; already one diocese has begun to act upon his sug
THE SCHOLASTIC.
249

gestion, and others no doubt will follow. His course has been sanctioned by Pius IX, who, in a brief addressed to him, approves the course which he has'upheld as the proper one to be followed in the education of youth. After the Pope has spoken in this manner, it remains now for Catholic educators to act upon his words and make the education of youth thoroughly Christian.
—One of the most noted literary societies in the world is the Arcadian Society which now exists in Rome. It is composed of learned churchmen, scholars, poets, artists, musicians and people of education. It is its custom to give literary and musical entertainments, at which only the more cultivated persons attend. Not long since they celebrated the centenaries of St. Thomas and of St. Bonaventure, at which the elite of Christian Rome attended ; but on the 17th of December, 1874, they gave the greatest entertainment ever given by it, in commemoration of the poet Petrarch. The exercises were mainly musical, and were given in the hall of the Altieri palace, which was crowded to excess. In a promiment position in the hall, the society had placed a bust of the famous Christian poet, garlanded with flowers. His Eminence Cardinal Borromeo presided, with that grace for which the Roman Cardinals are so famous. A correspondent of The Catholic Review, speaking of the entertainment says: ‘‘Count Campello, a young nephew of the Cardinal [Borromeo], read a fine paper on the poet, which was frequently applauded. Several ladies, who are members of the club, sang, and amongst them was the celebrated Signora Parisoti Ciceroni, one of the best singers in the world, and Signora Armelltni, another distinguished vocalist. Signora Laura Amati della Seta, a Jewish lady, and member of the society, was greatly applauded and complimented personally by the Cardinaldirector, for her exquisite singing. She is a most charming and cultivated lady, and enjoys a high reputation for her learning and acc implishments, and has been for many years a distinguished member of this society, which was recently revived through the generosity of Mgr. de Merode. The programme was very long, and many a celebrated man and woman figured in it, including Padre Giovanni Giordano, Signora De Domenicis Torii, Signor Gaioi, Mgr. Galfieri, Signora Augusta Morelt, and the pianist Signora de Marchis. At no period of its existence has the Arcadian been so flourishing as at present, for It includes some of the most celebrated men and women in the world amongst its members, belonging to every rank and profession and religion.”
The Catholic Church has been accused of not honoring genius, but assemblies such as that which met to honor the memory of the greatest of all writers of sonnets, are a refutation of this calumny. Indeed if any body of people honor and encourage genius it is the Catholic Church, which was the founder of all the great universities in the world, the protector and promoter of science, and the patron of poets, of painters, of sculptors, and of musicians.
Francisco Petrarca, or Petrarch, as he is known, to English-speaking people, one of the most illustrious of the poets and scholars who flourished in Italy, was born in 1304.
y His father had him educated in the law, for which he had no relish. His studies were pursued at Montpellier and ' ©ologna, where he made at an early period the acquaint-•\ ance of many persons distinguished in different avocations ■x. of life. His passion for Laura, which gave shape and color l- ’	.to the rest of his life, was kindled in 1327. She was at the
§	time in her 19 th year, and had been married to Hugues de
Sade. Petrarch’s affection for her was true and penna nent, but it was not returned by Laura, whose conduct, throughout life, was marked by purity, kindness, and good sense. In order that he might overcome or weaken the force of his hopeless passion, Petrarch travelled frequently, and lived for a length of lime in the secluded and lonely valley of Vaucluse. He then took an active interest in the political affairs of his time. He attached himself to the Pope, to whom he became a warm friend, and by whom he was entrusted'with many and important negotiations. It was while taking part in the affairs of state that he rendered himself of great service to literature by his learning, by his laborious and diligent researches and collections of ancient manuscripts hidden away in the libraries throughout Italy. It was he who, by a liberal donation of books to the Church of St. Mark, at Venice, became the founder of its famous libary.
Petrarch was the warm friend of Boccacio, the greatest of story-writers, and with him was the instrument in causing the revival of Classical Literature. He was also attached to Rienzi, with whose enterprise, as tribune of Rome, he warmly sympathized.
It was in 1341 that Petrarch received the highest testimony of renown which he had acquired as a poet and a scholar. In that year he was solemnly crowned as laureate by the Senate in the capital of Rome. This crowning of the poet was, in his day, the greatest reward which the poet looked for, and the greatest honor which he coveted; it was the public recognition of the genius of the poet, made manifest to him by the city whose Pontiff’s sway extended over the whole of the then known world. The death of Laura, which happened -in 1348, made a great impression on him, and he made a most touchingnote of it in his Virgil; yet he survived her many years, dying whilst he sat among his books, on the 18th ol July, 1374, at Aigua.
The works of Petrarch are written partly in Italian and partly in Latin. He rested his reputation on the latter; and in his own day’ he was more renowned for them than for his Italian writings. But in our day he is known on account of those works written in bis own native language. It is curious to note that Milton valued “Paradise Regained” more highly than “Paradise Lost,’’ and yet posterity reversed his judgment. Tasso reckoned his “ Jerusalem Delivered” as iaferior to his‘ Jerusalem me Co.quista,” yet after-ages gite preference to the first. So with Petrarch. He valued his Latin works higher than his Italian: we now " know him only by those written in the latter language; His Italian sonnets, canzoni, and “Triumphs” are all sweet, exquisite and glowing, even when translated into our colder English. They are ail variations on the one theme, Laura; those written after her death have an added purity and loftiness of sentiment, far excelling those written while she lived. His Latin poems, which are also of a high order, consist of an epic on the Second Punic War, entitled “ Africa,” epistles aud eclogues. His letters were • addressed to the most eminent persons and potentates of his time, and, treating of the exciting events amidst which he lived, they are of the highest interest and of great value.
The Arcadian Society has done honor to itself and-to Catholic Italy in celebrating the anniversary of the great poet. It argues well of the culture and education of a | people when they commemorate the anniversary of men . who have honored their country by their genius in litera-' ture.
I
Personal.
[We ■will give each week a great number of Personals, for the purpose of letting the old students know the whereabouts of •their former comrades.] ’
—Bro. James is still in delicate health.
—John Quill, of ’73, is in the grocery line.
—Thanks to Bro. Bonaventure for a morning mail.
—	J. H. Ward, of’73, is studying law in Chicago, Ill.
—	M. H. Smith, of’71, is doing well in St. Paul, Minn.
—	G. HL Madden of ’72, is hale and hearty in Mendota, Ill.
—	T. Finigan, of’72, is in thegrocery business in Joliet, Ill.
—	K. J. Espy, of ’70, is prospering in Fort Madison, Iowa.
■ —Bev. Father Cappon, of Niles, was at the College last week.
—Rev. Father Letourneau called at our “ den ” on Saturday last.
’ —G. Combs, of ’69, is clerking for Finigan & Co., in Joliet, Ill.
—Bro. Thodosius, of La Salle, spent a few days with us last week.
—	James B. Crummey, of '74, is staying in Chicago for his health.	.
—	J. A. Fox, of ’70, is in the G. B. & Q. R. R. office, Aurora, Ill.
—	Frank Sweger, of ’73, is in a wholesale tea house in
Chicago, Ill.	■
—	P. J. O’Connell, of ’73, is assistant County Agent in Cook County.
—	M. J. Spellacy, of’69, is looking for wealth in the oil regions, Pe.m.
—	J. Rhey Boyd, of '69, is practicing law with success in Paducah, Ky.
—	Joseph A Rofiaot, of ’73, is doing a rushing business in Chicago, Ill.
—	Win. M. Jones, of’61, is Principal of the High School in Lemont, Ill.	‘
—	Robert Kelly, of ’72, is in business with his father, in Minneapolis, Minn.
—	S. 0. Hibben, of ’73. is shipping-clerk for Hibben
& Co., Chicago, III.
—	Will-’ Layfield of ’71, who was lately married, is doing well in Joliet, Ill.	-
—Tae McKernan Brothers are in the real-estate business in Indianapolis, Ind.
—	Geo. V. Burbridge, of ’74, is in the hardware business in Springfield, Mass.
—	G. W. Warren, of ’70, is one of the best compositors in the Tmes Offite, Chicago.	#	■
—	M. Spellmin, of ’63, is reading law with Haley & O’Donnell, in Joliet, III.
—	F. B. Shephard, of’71, is in the Banking Business with his father, in Jerseyville Ill.	’
—	John Cochrane, Jr., of '68, is conductoron the Chicago
Alton and St. Louis R. R.	'
—	Al. Randel, of ’69, is accummulating much wealth in his business, in Joliet, Ill.	-
—	Jimmy Taylor, of ’61, is with Moseback & Humphrey, importers of teas, Chicago, HI. ' -
—	P. T. Shanahan, of ’70, is attending Medical Lectures in the Chicago Medical College. '
—	jos. Winterbotham, of ’69, is in the manufacturing business at Michigan City, Ind.
.	—J. B. Comer, of ’73, is keeping the books of a wholesale house in St. Paul, Minn.
—	Bro. Eugene has charge of the Manual Labor School during the sickness of Bro. James.	•
—	We have seen the third article on Astronomy in the 'Watertown Republican, by Bra Peter.
’	—Father Spillard, of ’64, is now holding a fair at Austin, Texas, for the benefit of his new church.
—	R. Stevens, of ’70, is, we understand, doing a prosperous business with his father, in Joliet, Ill.
—	Rev. Thos.K-nnedy, of’65. is Chaplain of the Monastery of St. Francis of Assisi, in Brooklyn, N. Y.
—	J. K. Finley, of ‘72, an old member of the “Happy Family,” is in the real-estate business in Chicago,Ill.
—	John Murnane, of’71, is the assistant book-keeper in the wholesale house of Beaupre & Kelly, St; Paul, Minn.
—Rev. Father Cooney arrived here last Saturday, after having preached successful missions at Monroe, Mich., and-other places.
—Father Ford gave the Minims a grand reception at the St. Joe Farm on Sunday last. He is just the man to make little fellows, happy.
—The Editors of the Ave Afaria return their thanks to Mr. P. J. MacNally, of the Brooklyn Post Office Department, for favors received.
—We are pleased to see that Father Freire has recovered from his late sickness and is again at his post in the church, where he is so much needed.
—Mr. Jos. Rice, of Milwaukee, called at the office on the 14th He is an accomplished gentleman, and we hope to see him at Metre Dime frequently. He brought a son with him, whom be placed in the College.
—It gives us great pleasure to announce that Dr. T. A. Daly, of ’66. has been appointed City Physician of Rochester, N. Y. Dr. Daly, after having graduated at Notre Dame, entered the Bellevue Hospital College, New York City, where he obtained his degree of Doctor of Medicine, standing first in a very large classL We wish the Doctor every success.	”
—We meet the following in the Keokuk (Iowa) Daily Gate City, concerning John Gibbons, of ’69:
Mayor Jaeger received a telegram from Hon. Geo. W. McCrary yesterday, statins that the Iowa City coupon case has been decided in favor of the city. This was a case tried in the United States Suoreme Court and the decision is one which very materially affects the interests of Keokuk, since there are claims against the city for large sums of accumulated interest on coupons, which have become outlawed by the statute of limitaiion, which chums are by this decision n-ndered invalid.
It will also prove very advantageous in the settlement of our city indebtedness.	.	.
The point, as we understand it, is this: The statute of limitaiion commences, to run against the coupons of bonds from the maturity of such coupons, and not from the maturity of their bonds. This point was first raised by John Gibbons, City Attorney, at the May terra, 1873, of the United States Circuit Court at Des Moines, in the case of Austin Corbin vs. the City ot Keokuk, upon which point Judges Dillon and Love were opposed in opinion, Dillon holding that the statute did not begin to run atrainst the coupons until the maturity of their bonds. Mr. Gibbons procured a certificate of division and appealed the case to the Supreme Court of the United States, and prepared a strong argument, which was printed in this office, in support of his point. He proceeded to Washington to be admitted to the Supreme Court and present his brief in the case, but was prevented from so doing by the action of the City Council in compromising the case. As this decision will be of incalculable value to this city, as well as to all cities and counties in the Union that have given aid to railroads in the way of bonds, we deem it justice to state who was the first to raise and ably advocate tbs important point.
_ Musical Notes.
—Bro. Philip will play the contra-bass in the Orchestra.
—They have very good music at the Novitiate at the morning Mass.
—The “new society,” (we can’t learn its name) had a rehearsal on the 17th.	.
—The Junior Branch of the Gillespie Choral Union had a rehearsal on the 17 th.
—Bro. Leopold will plav the ’cello in the Orchestra^ It was formerly played by Prof. Mayr.
—The Band is practicing a new air. The Band is a .credit to the place, as in former years.
—It is expected that there will be a great deal of first-class music at the Examination next week.
THE SCHOLASTIC
Local Items.
—Pie.
—Write.
’ —Itell you!
—Wonderful!	■
..—It’s slippery.	.
—Nary an item.
—" The Old Reliable.”
—Examinations next week.
—Who is the “uncodable?”
—Prepare for hard questions.
—The book-keepers are busy.
—They have finished cutting the ice.
—The Junior Study Hall looks “nobby.”
—No news from our friends in Memramcook.
■ —Bud and Sol attend to biz. these cold mornings.'	"
—A new wire has been added to the telegraphic line.
—We saw only two students out walking on Sunday.
. —The New Sanctuary Lamp has arrived in New York.
—The Classes in the Natural Sciences are well attended.
—“It is not sufficiently materialized ” i~ the phrase now.
- —There is quite a collection of curiosities, etc., in the Museum.	.
—Everybody has been consulting the thermometer the .past two weeks.
—o tons of co il and 5 cords of wood are used at Notre
Dame every day.	•
‘ —Excellent, little libraries are at both the Scholasti-cate and the Novitiate.
—Some young men forgot the week, and were in the Infirmary last Monday.	'
—Marcey's Border Warfare has given much pleasure to certain persons at Ilie presbytery.
—Every week we will endeavor to publish articles on the minor American and English writers.
—The boat-house" was a great accommodation to the skaters, the short time they had good ice. -
—See the description of the “First Station” in this week’s issue, and then see the Station itself.
• —And now the disconsolate members of the Band are made glad, zk bass-drummer has been found.
. —Refused—J he application of a third class tuba player and fourth-class tenor singer, for the bass drum.
—A great number of persons went from the College last Sunday evening to hear Prof. Stace lecture in South Bend.
—The ferret that died last week has been stuffed and now has its place among the hides of other aninnils in the Museum.	-
—Bro. Charles and his force of carpenters are very busy in the new Church. They are engaged in the flooring just now.
—What is the matter with the N. Y. Sun^ For one whole week there was not a word in it about “that truly good man.”
—We have been promised a number of papers on scientific subjects. Good short ones for general reading are just the thing.	.
—There is plenty of work at the Manual Labor School. All the shop* are busy, the boys are cheerful and the Directors satisfied.
.—He gazed upon the ceiling, then cast his eyes upon the floor, but not an item could he give us, when we asked our friend John for some locals..
—The Class of Elocution will now be commenced by the accomplished teacher who received his appointment a few weeks since. We predict for it unbounded success.
—A clerical friend of ours always sits in a rocking-chair when reciting his Office. Our friend John wants to know whether he does so because his piety is founded on a rock?
—We understand that a lecture is being prepared by one
25 J'
who can well entertain an audience here at Notre Dame. It is to be delivered in the hall of the Manual Labor School.-
—Bro. Francis Xavier has a fine collection of pioug pictures at his store. All persons desiring pictures of the late Rev. Fathers Gillespie and Lemonnier can be accommodated by him.	"
—There is a clock at the farm house here at Notre Dame which has reached the venerable age of two hundred and fifty years. Pretty old, isn’t it?
—On Tuesday last in one of the book-keeping classes there must have been something extraordinary on hand. Those right arms were going at lightning speed, and oh! weren’t they tired!	.
—Signor Gregori is engaged in painting the Stations, or Way’ of the Cross, for the new church. When these paintings are finished they will be superior to anything of the kind in the United States.	:
—Uncle Dave says that we have a great deal to say about “our box,” in the Scholastic, but it is not anything to the box which he got on the ear when our friend John met him after coming from the Infirmary.
—We wish that the man that owns the dogs that frequent our < ffbe, that is in the second story of the building; that the Scholastic conies from, would k<<p them at home. There will be murder soon, ot dogs—if he don’t. .
—Our friend John says that he ventures the prediction that next week will be very unhealthy. He refuses to give ‘ his reasons for making the prophecy’. Who can I cl I us why that week, more than any’ other, should bring sickness?
—The Minims went to the St. Joe Farm on a visit last Sunday. They had a grand time. After paying their respects to Father Ford, they sat down to a table loaded with good things prepared for them by’ the good Sisters at the farm.	'
—We paid a visit to the Novitiate the other day, and were shown through the building by the Rev. Master of Novices. Everything is in excellent order. We were particularly pleased with the many beautiful windows, in the chapels, etc., which, though not of stained glass, are in appearance almost equal to it. The Novitiate building is almost too small f->r the number of Novices, and it will be a necessity to build if many more persons tire entered.
■■—In the Commercial Department they have been having some fun lately. In an Orthography Cla«s, the 2nd of the Junior Commercials, the members of the class separated into two factions, the Websterites and the Worcesterites, and had a reil old-fashioned spelling match. The Wor-cesterites were defeated after a very gallapt fight. The best spellers were, on the Webster side, Messrs. Colton, Haffey, Backman, Budd, Davis. Harvey and Hoffman; on the Worcester side, Messrs. Lynch, Goldsberry, Jewell, Foley, Walsh,’ Palmer, L irkin and Claffey.	‘
—Our friend John and Uncle Dave were at the Infirmary last week. .They saw one of the men engaged in working there put a bottle wrapped in paper in one of the rooms. The man had just come from the wine-cellar. It must be wine, they thought, and have some they were determined. The man left the room, and with stealthy steps they enteied; John seized the bottle and took a long draught, and then he laid the bottle down and bolted. Uncle Dave, thinking he left because he feared being caught, then took his “swig” and then he bolted. And then those two young men went to the rear of the Infirmary and there wasn’t much of their breakfast left in them. And our friend John says that codliver oil will not answer for catawba wine, while Uncle Dave says he never did make much by cribbing.
—Our friend John says it don’t pay to play off sick. He went to the Infirmary last week because he didn’t know a lesson. He “had terrible ptins in his back” is what he told them. And then Uncle Dave, who was there, went out of the room and made a rough old mustard plaster. He brought it in to John and said the doctor had prescribed it and that the Infirmarian had told him to put it on him’. Our friend John protested, but Uncle Dave was inexorable; He put that plaster on our friend John and tied string after string around his body. Then he sat down and watched him. Mebbe our friend John didn’t squirm and
<
252
SCHOLASTIC.'
jump: oh no 1 He jerked and tugged for a half an hour at that plaster, but it wouldn’t come off. Then he jumped from the bed, and taking a pair of shears he cut all the strings loose and left. And now he says Ite won’t go to the Infirmary any more.
The Stations.
. Signor Gregori has finished the First Station, for the new church at Notre D ime. The picture, as it now stands in the parlor of the Presbytery, is five feet high by three feet and a half wide; but will appear on the wall of the church in a gothic frame nine feet high. The beauty of the composition itself on the pointed canvass strikes us at a glance, and the closer it is examined the more is this impression confirmed. The head and figure of Pilate, on the extreme left, who is washing his hands while a young page pours the water, is that of a pagan Roman; haughtily and worldly with a certain regularity which might have true beauty in youth. Al his right hand stands the lictor with bis official bundle of rods, an attendant and standard-bearer; the standard being the R >man eagle and the wreath of bayleaves, with the S. P. Q. R'below, standing for a Seitaltis Fopultisque Romann* ” In the foreground at the right appears the figure of Our Divine Lord, much patient, and and of exquisite delicacy, led by a brut al ruffian who seems to regard Him as a condemned wretch worthy only of blows; while a Roman soldier looks into the suffering face of our Lord with a sort of venerating pity. The mildness in every line and lineament of Him who was bruised for our healing, is cent tasted wit h the coarse, muscular strength of His pigan guards, anl the selfish unconcern of His pagan judge. The flesh tints in the figure of the Redeemer have the peculiar tenderness of Carte D’elci’s fiesh tints in his Madonnas, the blue giving an almost ethereal transparency to tnc sorrowful face and unresisting hands. The draperies are all carefully painted, and the tone of the picture, as to the local colors and light and shade, shows the true Italian feeling and taste.
■ We hope that Signori Gregori’s inspirations will bear him through all the fourteen Stations as admirably as through the first one.
Ziiterature,
—The Catholic Publication Society have in press Dr. Newman’s answer to the Gladstone pamphlet.
—Messrs. G. Bell and S ms, Loudon, are about to issue a translation of the Shakspearc commentaries of Prof. Ulrici.
—The Letters of Lord Chesterfield have been translated into Guzerathi by a Parsee lady, and published at Bombay, India.
—The Goiludfc Record for January, 1875, contains a number of interesting articles. Many interesting facts are given in the article on “The Pope,” by the Rev. John O’Brien. “A New-Year’s Welcome,” has a very pleasant ring in its verses. Mrs. M. M. Warde contributes a very pretty sketch entitled “Two Pictures—Merely Suggestive.” There is an entertaining essay on “Christian Schools in the Middle Ages,” by George D. Wolff; and another, by C. H. A. Esling, called “ Sunbeams from Cucumbers.” Mr. Esling also contributes a translation of “An Ancient Christmas Chant.” Rev. Dr. Moriarty is the writer of “Letters to a Protestant Friend” and “How the Esquimaux Live”; both are well written and instruc
tive. Besides, wc note in the contents: “Old New-Year’s Customs,” “The Church of the Cup of Water” and “Father and Child.” Altogether, the Record is very instructive and entertaining. It is well worth the subscription price, ’ which is §2.50 per annum in advance. Hardy & Mahony, 505 Chestnut street, Philadelphia, are the publishers.
—Lessons in* Bible UrsroRt for Catholic .Schools.—By a Teacher. New York: P. O’Shea. 1675.
We have examined this book with some care, and can safely recommend it as a class-book of superior merit. The book is intended for the use of pupils from the age of ten to fifteen, and for the capacity of their minds we know of nothing more fit. The author seems to have had the end for which the book was written always in view, and has succeeded well in accomplishing the task of preparing a suitable text-book of Bible History for youth.
—“The Vatican Decrees and their Bearings on Civil Allegiance,” by Archbishop Manning, and “ The Mistress of Novices Enlightened upon her Duties,” from the French, are announced as in press, by the Catholic Publication Society.
—Kelly, Piet & Co., announce the following works as in press: “ The Ceremonial: For the Use of the Catholic Church in the United States,”—Fourth Edition; “The Sacristan’s Manual; ” “ Seven Stories,” by Lady Georgiana Fullerton;” “Emmore;” “Life of Margaret Roper;” and “ Little Companion of the Sisters of Mercy.”
—The contents of the GatJiolic World for February are up to the usual high standird which characterize the contributions to that Magazine. Aubrey de Vere contributes a letter written to Sara Coleridge, on “Church Authority and Personal Responsibility.” This is followed by an excellent poem, which, if we are not mistaken, was written by A. A. B„ who is wi ll known here; it is in his vein. “Are You my Wife,” a continued story, is very entertaining. “Religion and State in Our Republic” is a thoughtful article, well worth reading by all Americans. “Release” is a poem happily executed. “The Veil Withdrawn,” by Mrs. Craven, is still continued. “The Brooklet” is a very pretty translation from Goethe. The remainder of the articles are: “The Colonization of New South Wales,” “ A Summer in Rome”—very pleasant reading, by the author of “The House of Yorke,”—“Matter,” “Robespierre,” “Robert Cavalier de La Salle”—of much interest to us out West,—“Birthdays,” “The Future of the Russian Church,” “The Bells of Prayer,” and New Publications. The subscription price of the “ World” is §5.00 per year; published by the Catholic Publication Society.

Society Hotes.
—The Scientific Association will meet soon.
—Elections will be held in most of the Societies next week.	.	.
—The 16th regular meeting of the Saint Stanislaus Phi-lopatrian Society was held on Thursday, January 14th, 1875. At this meeting, J. French was unanimously admitted after fulfilling the rules of the Society. Messrs L. Pilliod, F. Hoffman, and J. Delvecchio each delivered Declamations. '
—The 20th regular meeting of the Saint Cecilia Philo-mathean Association was held on the evening of the 9th inst. Masters Meyer, Soule, Minton, ^ood, McNamara, Walker, Riopelle, Best, McIntire, Weisenburger, Byrne,
.THE SCHOLASTIC.
25$
Arnold and O’Connell delivered Declamations, most of which were of a serious order and were excellently well spoken. Masters Meyer and Best convulsed their hearers with laughter; the former by his impersonation of a Hoosier stump orator, and the latter by personating Hans . Breitman in a match game of base-ball. Master Beegan
read awell-written composition entitled “The Choice of a Vocation.”
Scientific Notes. *
—Contributors, to the number of 86,696, have given $9,191.94 to the Agassiz fund.
—A fine collection of shells—mostly univalves—has been sent to the Museum by its former curator, Rev. F. Carrier.
—The velocity of galvanic electricity is about 18.000 miles per second; that of statical electricity, 288,OuO miles per second.
—The gymnotus, a fresh-water fish, found abundantly in the waters of the Orinoco, has four electrical organs, running from the.tail to the head of the animal. So great is the electrical energy of the animal that a fish 40 inches in length, has given a shock which, it has been calculated, is equal to that emitted from a Lex den battery of 15 jars, exposing 3.500 square inches of coated surface.
—Mr. Faraday has calculated that the electricity produced by the decomposition of a single drop of water in the battery by the action of the zinc plate, is equal to that furnished by eight hundred thousand di.-cbargis of a ' powerful plate electrical machine: or that the decompisi-tion of one grain of water evolves a quantity of electricity sufficient to charge a surface of 400 acres, an amount hardly exceeded in the most violent storm. If this amount of electricity were spread upon a cloud two-thirds of a mile distant from the earth, it would exert an attractive force upon the earth beneath it, of 1.664 tons and that if the atoms of oxygen in this grain of water were attached to one thread l-25th of an inch long, and those of hydrogen to another, the force required to separate the thread in one second would be 7.250 tons!
—M. Meisens has proposed a simple method of liquefying condensable gases by making use of the powerful- surface action of charcoal. With chlorine, for example, he saturates the charcoal with its own weight of the gas, places it on one limb of a V-shaped tube, seals both ends thereof, applies boiling water to the tube containing the charcoal, and dips the other limb in a freezing mixture. The chlorine, volatilized by the heat, condenses, by the pressure generated in the confined space, into a liquid in the cooled limb. In this way ammonia, sulphurous oxide, hydrogen sulphide, hydrogen bromide, ethyl chloride, and cyanogen have been liquefied.
—Latest Form of Electric Light.—A thin ribbon of carbon is suspended between two platinum poles, and covered by a globe containing dry carbonic acid gas. The ribbon receives an electric current from a battery, and while in the atmosphere of the gits becomes brilliantly incandescent. The carbon is not c >nsume>l, and the light is said to be perfectly constant. .The method was invented by Professor Osborn, of Miami University, who at first thought it necessary to use very thin strips of carbon; but the light is now produced with much larger ribbons, and with little combustion. The heat generated h :s never, as yet, broken the small glass globe containing the ribbon. This light being constant, and not n quiring the combustion of carbon, may prove much more useful to scientific lecturers than the ordinary electric or oxyhydrogen lights, both of which are troublesome to handle.
—Captain Nares, of H. M. S. Challenger, has been offered the command of the New English Arctic Expedition, and has accepted the same. He will have for first-lieutenant Captain Albert Markham. The previous services of the former in the cause of scientific explorations, and the experience of the latter in the Arctic regions, doubtlessly caused them to be chosen in preference to others. The expedition, consisting of two vessels, is expected to set sail about the first of next June.
—Rev. J. G. Wood has submitted the light emitted by the tropical fire-fly and the English glow-worm to a spectro--scopic examination,-and finds it similar to that given off by an incandescent solid. That is the light which is known as white light, the spectrum of which is antimony.’
—A communication from Mr. Christie, of the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, December 11th, referring to the transit of Venus observations, states that from telegrams received from a large number of stations, astronomers have every reason to be congratulated on the success of their efforts. The weather was on the whole most favorable. About one half of the observations of which we have yet had any information were completely successful.
—The greatest invention of the year just ended (1874)— and perhaps the greatest of the century—is the Quadruplex Apparatus of Messrs. T. A. Edison and G. B. Prescott, of the Western Union Telegraph Company. It is a process by means of which four different messages may be transmitted upon the same wire simultaneously—two in one. direction and two others in the opposite direction. The. invention has been in successful operation for several months past in the New York and Boston < flices of the Company, and is satisfactorily performing an amount of work upon one wire quite equal to the capacity of four wires worked with the ordinary Morse apparatus.
Ths EsamhiatioES.
The Semi-Annual Examinations will take place next Monday, January 25th. The Examining Committees are as follows:
the senior preparatory committee.
P.ev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C., Presiding; Rev. J. O’Keefe, C. S. C.; Mr. Thomas Collins, C. S. C.; D. Hagerty, C. S. C.; Bro. Marcellinus, C. S. C.; Bro. Paul, C. S. C.; Prof. O. M Schnurrer, Prof. J. F. Edwards. It will meet in Room No. 1.
THE JUNIOR’ preparatory committee.
R. J. Kelly, C. S. C., Pres’t.; Mr. J. Shea, C. S. C.; Bro. Leander, C. S. G.; Bro. Hubert, C. S. C; Bro. Alexander, C. S.C.; Prof. T. A. Dailey, M. S. Foote. It will meet in Room No. 7.
The Commercial Committee—Rev. P. J. Golovin, C. S. C., President; Bro. Philip, C. S. C.; Bro. Marcian, C. S. C.; Prof’s. L. G. Tong, A. M,; Wm. Ivers, A. M.; J. A. Lyons, A. M.; T. O’Mahony. It will meet in Room 13.,
The Classical Committee—Rev. A. Louage, C. S. C. ' Pres’t; Rev. J. A.O’Connell,C. S. C.; Prof’s. T. E.Howard, A. M.; J. A. Lyons, A. M.fWm. Ivers, A. M.; T. O’Mahony. It will meet in Room No. 4.
The Scientific Committee—Rev. J. A. Zahm, C. S. C., Pres’t; Rev. D. E. Hudson, C. S. C.; Prof’s. A. J. Stace, A. M-; Wm. Ivers, A. M.; T. E. Howard, A. M.; T. O’. Mahony. It will meet in Room 3.
Committee of Modern Languages—Rev. L. Francis-cus, C. S. C., Pres’t; L. Oliver, C. S. C.; Wm. P. Joannes, C. S. C.; Bro. Hubert, C. S. C.; Prof. O. M. Schnurrer. It wfll meet in Room 6.
Committee of Fine Arts—Rev. Julius Frere, C. S. C., Pres’t; Bro’s. Basil, C. S. C.; Leopold, C. S. C.; Albert, C. S. C.; Prof. J. Paul; Mr. John Gillespie, N. Ruddeman. It will meet in the grand parlor.
The Senior Preparatory Committee will examine classes numbered, 18, 21, 22, 24, 27, 28, 30 and Penmanship.
The Junior Preparatory Committee will examine classes numbered 1,2, 3,5,6,7,9,10,12.. 13,14,16,17, 97,98,99 and Penmanship.
The Commercial Committee will examine classes numbered 4, 31, 32,20, 11, 26,15,29, 8,23, and Penmanship.-
254
THE SCHOLASTIC.
The Classical Committee will?examine classes numbered, 23, 34.35, 33.37,33.39,40,41,43.44, 46,47,48,49,50,51,52.
The Scientific Committee will examine classes numbered 53, 54, 55, 56, 57‘ 53, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70,71 and 75.
The Committee of Modern Languages will examine classes numbered 76, 77, 78, 79, 80,81 and 82.
The Committee of Fine Arts will examine classes numbered 85, 86, 87,88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95 and 96.
We hope that all the students will understand that the class lists have undergone a thorough ievision, and it will be expected that everyone will be on hand promptly when the classes are called. By their promptness they will prevent much delay, and save the necessity of sending for them. As there is no possibility of escaping the examination, everyone should be prepared at any moment for his classes to be called.
Additional Arrivals.
Albert J. Wisner, John W. Egbert,. Martin Reagan,... Henry H.Rice,..
Chicago, Ill.
Goshen, Ind.
Oconto, Wis. • Milwaukee, Wis.
Doll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.^ -
W. Armstrong, V. Baca, J. Berringer, J. Brown, L. Chamber-lain, J. Caren, G. Crummey, H. Cassidy, J. Cullen, T. Carroll, M. Clarke, J. Dryfoos, F. Dill, B. Euans, J. Ewing, M. Foley, W. Fullerton, W. Forbes, J. Flaherty, J. Girard, P. Guilloz, T. Gallagher, G. Hoyt, C. Hess, H. Hunt, J. Handley, T. Hansard, J. Hogan, F. Hebard, J. Kennedy, S. Kennedy, J. Kopf, M. Keeler, G. Kelly, J. Krlly, A. Lonsiorf, J. Larkin, P. Lawrence, G. McNulty, J. Marks, R. Maas, F. Montgomery, J. Mathews, E. Monoban, E. McLaughlin, J. McManus, Peter Mattimore, Patrick Mattimore, E. Maas, L. Moran, A. Mohan, J. Ney, A. O’Brien, T. O’Leary, T. O’Mahony, C. Otto, C. Proctor, T. Pugh, G. Roulhac, W. Ryan, J. Rudge, G. Rudge, M. Regan, P. Skahill, F. Sehlink, S. Studebaker, J. Thornton, J. Verment, C. Walters, R. White, J. Whalen, L. Zeitler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. Arnold, J. Beegan, A. Bergck, G. Budd, A. Burger, J. W. " Connolly, A Crunkilton, J. Crummey, J. Dore, J. Delvecchio, R. Downey, F. Ewing, L. Evers, H. D. Faxen, F. E. Foxen, P. Fitzpatrick, F. Frazee, J. T. Foley, J. M. Green, J. Gairity, G. J. Gross, J. Griffith, C. Greenleaf, E. D. Gleeson, C. Hake, C. Hitchcock, H. Korty, A. Leitelt, J. Leitelt, J. McIntyre, R. McGrath, J. McHugh, H. McGuire, W. S. Meyer, M. J. Murphy, D. J. O’Connell, C. Peltier, F. Palmer, C. R. Post, L. Pilliod, J. L. Perea, J. A. Smith, W. S. Stout, J. F. Soule, T. J. Solon, A Schmidt, T. Summers, T. Talbot, C. W. Welty, H. Weber, C. J. Whipple, J. E. Wood, F. J. Weisenburger, J. K. Jones, F. Rosa, W. Fawcett, H. Rice.
Class Honors.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, JANUARY 21.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Senior Class—G. Roulhac, J. Girard,, T. Solon, S. Studebaker, P. H. Skahill, J. Cuiliton, G. F. McNulty, G. Rudge, H. H. Hunt, C. W. Welty’, A. Crunkilton, E. C. Weisenburger, F. Frazee, G. Gross, M. Caldwell, M. McCormick, M. J. Murphy, J. H. Lyons, E. Maas. .
Junior Class—V. Baca, J. F. Larkin, J. Retz, A. O’Brien, F. Montgomery, J. M. Dryfoos, J. Thornton, H. McGuire, L. Evers, J. M. Green, J. Griffith, F. E. Foxen, J. Dore, H. Korty,
C. Hake, J. E. Obert, T. O’Leary, E. Seibert, J. P. Flaherty, ,L. Proud homme.
—Mathew Kramer deserves an especial mention in 3rd Or. 1 thogrophy for having missed but three words since the beginning of the session.
Chapd of Out Lady of LouicLes.
TO BE ERECTED IN MEMORY-OF REV. A. LEMONNIER C. S. C.
Geo. Wyman & Co., South Bend, Ind
Jno. Treauor, Esq., Mrs. Shirland, Mr. J. M. Poole, Mr. Jas. Bonney,


Master N. J. Mooney, Amboy, Bl..
“ H. Cassidy, Youngstown, O.... “ E. S. Monahan, Louisville, Ky. “ F. Miller, Richton, Ill....... “ G. W. Hoyt Chicago, Ill....... Miss Maggie Muicair. Rochford, Ill.,.. Miss Eliza McCabe, New York,.... A Friend, Notre Dgme, Ind.,..... Miss Mary Corcoran, California,. Mrs. Mary Fenton and Children,..
§25 00
10 00
5 00
2 00
3;
2
1
2
3
00 00 00. 00
2.00
2
2
5
1
20
5
00 00 00
00 00 00



SAIHT MAST’S ACADEMY
—The examination in music commenced on Monday.
—The regular examination of classes will begin on Monday, 25ih inst.
—The friends of Miss Minnie Craven made a fine little feast in honor of her birthday, Monday, the 18th inst.
—At the close of examination, the First Instrumental ■ and the Vocal Music Classes will give an entertainment
—An interesting package was received by one of the far-western young ladies not long since. It had not traversed the long distance that the first appearance indicated
—On Sunday evening, 17th inst, the first No. of “Libra” was read.' The editors were the Misses M. Walker, D. Green and A. Curtin. “Libra” is issued by the Class of Graduates, the members of the class taking their turns as Editors; it is the successor of “Aurora” the paper formerly edited by that' class, and discontinued because the young ladies supposed themselves too much occupied in following the regular course of the class to give the requisite time for the issue of a literary paper. Very Rev. Father General expressed his wish to see the usual appearance of a paper from the class, insisting that, as a means of improvement, the efforts necessary to bring out such'a periodical ate among the most important of academic life; therefore the young ladies, cheerfully acceding to his superior judgment, have united in the production of “Libra.” The approbation manifested gave full proofs of the wisdom displayed by the young ladies in their acquiescence. The entire paper would do honor to the best amateur journal of the day. The exquisite design on the cover is in keeping with everything which issues from St. Luke’s Studio.
ART NOTES.
—The.Christmas Holidays over, the studies from casts have begun in earnest. The perseverance with which these studies are pursued will settle the question of precedence in the correct drawing of heads in the future.
—A copy of a half life-size portrait bust, by Mr. William W. Starr, has been received at St. Mary’s. The modelling is remarkable for its decision of touch and delicacy of rendering. As a likeness, it is a true one in the noblest sense, and gives promise of rare excellence in the’ sculptor’s art. Mr. Starr’s artistic career began in Chicago under the happiest auspices; but since the fire of 1871, he has been' located in Boston, with all the advantages to be secured by an industrious student in the “American Athens.”
—Among the small “Bethlehems” at St. Mary’s was an original design in water-colors, seven inches by ten, very simple and unpretending in arrangement, but possessing a true religious beauty. We could not help thinking as
t

IV
THE SCHOLASTIC.
25§>
we stw this first effort at composition on the part of one who had been studying a little over a year according to the method of instruction at St. Mary’s, that in this very same way did the old D iminican convent of St. Maik, at Florence, obtain her priceless art treasures. They were not sought for from abroad; but the home talent, and the home piety, and the home enthusiasm were put in requisition to meet home necessities. Let these young designers keep on. The day will come when their modest designs will be to St. Mary s what Fra Angelico’s were to the Dominicans of St. Mark’s—incentives to devotion, and wellsprings of piety.	-
TABLET OF HONOR
FOR THE WEEK ENDING JANUARY 15, 1875.
For Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correc Deportment and strict observance of academic rules the following young ladies are enrolled :	-
Graduating Class—Misses M. Walker, A. Curtin, L. Ritchie, A. Lloyd, J. Locke, J. Kearney, R. Green, A. Smith. '	.
1st Sr. Class—Misses A. Clarke, H. Foote, M. Riley, K. Joyce, L. Bradford, J. Stimson, E. Sweenej’, A. St. Clair.
2nd Sr. Class—M. Daley, A. Walsh, L. Ritchie, J. McGuire, E. York, F. Dilger, F. DeLong, J. Bennett, M. Faxon, E. Dougherty, J. Nunning, B. Wade, M. Julius.
3rd Sr. Class—M. Dunbar, S. Harris, C. Woodward, L. Johnson,-M. Walsh, K. Hutchinson, M. Quill, M. Brady, E. Quinlan, A. Byrnes, M. Roberts, F. Taylor, B. Spencer, K- Spencer, N. Myhan, M. Bryson.
1st Prep. Class—Misses E. O’Connor, M. Thompson, E. Thompson, C. Morgan, M. Poquette, A. Duncan, M. Shiel, K. Greenleaf, E. Mann, S. Hole, E. Bowman, S. Moran.
2nd Prep. Class—Misses H. Parks, S. Edes, I. Edes, E. Edes, E. Codjr, S. Cunningham, L. Meade. M. McKay, N. McFarlane, L. Moran, S. Reising, E. Botsford.
3rd Prep. Class—Misses C. Maigrey, L. Brownbridge, G. Hills, A. Lehman, M. Railton, M. Quinn.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Harris, M. O’Connor, M. Carlin. M. Pritchard, E. Lange, A Cullen, M. Siler, B. Siler, M. Reynolds, B. Golsen, H. Peak, M. Summers, J. Brown, C. Yates, L. Kirchner, A. Goewey, M. Hogan, L. Hutchinson, N. McGrath, L. Walsh, M. Hoffman, E. Lappin, K. Hudson, M. Bell, M. Derby and K. Haney.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	*
Misses N. Mann, A. Ewing, A. McGrath, I. Mann, C. Hughes, R. Goldsberry, L. Schnurrer, A. Schnurrer.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN LESSONS.
Graduating Class—Misses M. Walker, A. Curtin, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, E. Haggerty, A. Lloyd, J. Kearney, R. Green A. Smith. •
1st Sr. Class—Misses G. Walton, A. Clarke, J. Fanning, H. Foote, M. Riley, K. Joyce, L. Arnold, L. Bradford, J. Stimson, A. St. Clair.
2nd’Sr. Class—Misses M. Daley, A. Walsh, L. Ritchie, L. Wyman. J. McGuire, E. York, F. Dilger, F. De Long, J. Bennett, M. Faxon, E. Dougherty, J. Nunning, B. Wade, M. Julius.
3rd Sr. Class—Misses M. Dunbar, S. Harris, C. Woodward, L. Johnson, M. Walsh, K. Hutchinson, M. Quill, M. Brady, M. O’Connor. A. Byrnes, F. Taylor, B. Spencer, K. Spencer, M. Carlin, N. Myhan, M. Bryson, B. Wilson, I. Fisk.	-
1st Prep. Class—Misses E. O’Connor, M. Thompson E. Thompson, 0. Morgan, M. Ewimr, M. Poquette, A. Duncan, M. Shiel, K. Greenleaf, M. Pritchard, E. Mann, S. Hole, E. Bowman, S. Moran, A. Pool, E. Lange, M. Schultheis, A. Cullen, M. Siler, B. Siler. '
2nd Prep. Class—Misses H. Parks, S. Edes, I. Edes, E. Edes, S. Cunningham, L. Meade, E. Cody, M. McKay, N. McFarlane, L. Moran, S. Reising, E. Botsford, A. Allen, H. Peak, M. Summers, J. Brown.
3rd Prep. Class—0. Maigrey, L. Brownbridge, A. Lehman,	‘	.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses L. Kirchner, N. McGrath, N. Maim, 0. Yates, A. Goewey, F. Middleton,- M. Hogan, L. Hutchinson, A. Ewing, L. Walsh, M. Hoffman, E. Lappin.
1st Jr Class—A. Peak, I. Mann, A. McGrath, K. Hudson, M. Hughes, C. Hughes, M. Derby, K. Haney.
2nd Jr. Class—R. Goldsberry and L. Schnurrer.
Latin—Misses Currin, York, DeLong, McGuire, Brady, Dougherty, Quinlan, Byrnes, Smith, Locke, Green, Foote, Sweeney, Joyce.
1st Gr. Class—Misses J. Nunning, S. Harris, A. Lehman, M. Kirchner, M. Faxon, B. Golsen, A. Harris.
2nd Class—Misses A. O’Connor, M. Dunbar, M. Julius, S. Reising, L. Kelley, H. Kraus, E. Botsford, A. Koch.
3rd Class—Misses B- Wade, H. Peak, F. Middleton, L. Walsh.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN FRENCH.	•
Graduating Class—Misses M. Walker, J. Kearney.
1st Class—Misses M. Poquette, J. Stimson, S. Harris, F. Dilger, E. Thompson, M. Thompson, K. Joyce, B. Wilson, N. McGrath, A. Harris.
2nd Class, 1st Div.—Misses L Ritchie, P. Gaynor,. L. Bradford, A. T. Clarke, K. Hutchinson, M. Hutchinson, M. Riley, A. McGrath, C. Morgan, A. Lloyd.	.
3rd Div.—Misses K. and B. Spencer, J. Bennett, A. St. Clair.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.	.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN MUSIC DURING THE HOLIDAYS.
MissesE. Quinlan,R. Spier, N.Foote, R. Green, K. Greendeaf. J. Kearney, L. Arnold, L. Wvman, M. Cravens, M. M Koch, J. Locke, A. T.Clarke, J. Bennett.L.Bradford, A. Dilger. L. Kirchner, B. Wilson. A. Duncan, A. Byrnes, E.’ Hagserty, K. J«Ace, M. A. Roberts. L. Ritchie. M*. Pritchard, F. Dileer, L. McKinnon, A. Cullen, M. McKay, M. Riley, M. Bryson. E. Bowman, A. Curtin, M. Schultheis, A. O'Connor, F. Taylor. P. Gaynor, C. Woodward, F. DeLong, A. Goewey. E. Dougherty, A. Sweeney, S. Ed< s, A. Smith, B. and M. Siler. E Lappin, M.Reynolds, I. Edes. E. Edes, C. Maigrey, H. Parks. M. Daily,L. Kelly, E. Sweeney, M. Anthony7K. Hudson, J. Brown, A. Ewing, M. Derby.-
Harp—M’ss M. Walker.
Organ—Misses E. Cody, S. Moran.	.
VOCAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses H. A. Foote, E. O’Connor, E. Haggerty.
2nd Class—Misses J. Riopelle. J. Kearney,
2nd Div.—Misses B. Spencer, L. Bradford, M. Riley, E.~ Dougherty, J. Locke.
3rd Class—Misses C. West, L. Arnold, C. Morgan, A. Curtin.
2nd Div.—Misses A. Walsh, L. Walsb, E. Bowman, J.-Bennett, M. Walsb, M. Anthony, A. Koch.
Gen. Class—Misses L. Kirchner, E. York, S. Edes, E. Edes, I. Edis, K. Greenleaf, M. Brady, M. Carlin, M. Roberts, L. Moran.	'
SCHOOL OF DESIGN.
DRAWING.	.	"
3rd Class—MissR. Meteler.
4th Class—Misses G. Walton, A. Cullen, L. Ritchie, M. Thompson, E. Thompson, J. Stimson.
5th Class—Misses A Koch, M. O’Connor, M. A. Schultheis, M. Ewing, L. Arnold. P. Gaynor, E. Lange, A. Sweeney, F. Taylor, E. Lappin.
W'ATER COLORS.
5th Class—Misses E Sweeney, B. Wade, C. Morgan. PLAIN SEWING.
Misses L. Ritchie, L. Bradford, M. Riley, G. Walton, L. Wyman, A. T. Clarke. J. Fanning, E. Thompson, M. * Thompson, M. Railton, S. Harris, E. Mann, S. Moran, G. Hills, M. Walsh, A. Walsh, P. Gaynor.
C ARPENTER ™ HATTER!

.	105 MICHIGAN St. - i - SOUTH BEND,
dec 5% if.
256
THE SCHOLASTIC.
THE SUN.
WEEKLY AND DAILY FOR 187a'
The approach of the Presidential election gives unusual importance to the events and developmcts of 1875. We shall endeavor to de scribe them fullv. faithfully, and fearlessly.
THE WEEKLY bUN has now attained a circulation of over seventy thousand copies. Its readers are found in every State and Territory, and its quality is well known to the public. We shall not. only endeavor to keeo it fully up to the old standard, but to improve and add to its variety- and power.
THE WEEKLY SUN will continue to be a thorough newspaper. All the news of the day will be found in it, condensed when uniinpor taut, at full length when of moment, and always, we trust, treated in a clear, interesting and instructive manner.
It is our aim to make the WEEKLY S UN the best family newspaper in the world It will be fall of entertaining and appropriate reading of every sort, but will print nothing to ofiend the most scrupulous and delicate taste. It will always contain the most interesting stories and romances of the day. carefully selected and legibly printed.
The Agricultural Department isa prominent feature in the WEEKLY SUN?, and its articles will always be found fresh anduseful to the farmer.
The number of men independent in politics is increasing, and the WEEKLY SUN is theirpaper especially. It belongs to no party, and obevs no dictation, contending for principle, and for the election of the best men. It exposes the corruption that disgraces the country and threatens the overthrow of republican institutions. It has not fear of knaves, and seeks no favors from their supporters.
The markets of every kind and the fashions are regularly reported in its column--.
The price of the WEEKLY SUN is one dollar a year for a sheet of eightpages, and fifty-six columns. As this barely pays the expenses of the paper and printing, we'are not able to make any discount or allowanv premium to friends who may make special efforts to extend its circulation- Under the new law, which requires payment of postage in advance, one dollar a year, with twenty cents the cost of prepaid postage adued. is the rate of subscription. It is not necessary to get up a club in order to have the WEEKLY SUN at this rate. Anyone who seuds one dollar and twenty cents will get the paper, post-paid, for a year.
We hiv.- no travelling agent®.	dec 12-Gt.
THE AVEEKLY SUIS'.—Eight pages, fitty six columns. Only $ 1.2 O a year, postage prepaid, No discounts from this rate. '
THE DAILY SUN.—A large four-page newspaper of tweenty-eight columns. 1 aily circulation over 120,000. All the news for 2 cents. Subscription, postage prepaid, 55 cents a month, or 0.50 a year. To clubs of IO or over, a discount of 20 per cent.
A.d.d.ress, “THE SUIN',” DiTew York city.
L. S. & M. ^RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, May 24, 1874, trains will leave South Bend as follows:	'
GOING EAST.
2.35 a. m. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 1039: Cleveland, 2.35 p. sr.; Buffalo, 8.55 p. m.
10.38 A. M. (No. 2), Mail, overMain Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5 35 p. st. ; Cleveland, 10.20
12.27 A sr. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.50; Cleveland, 10.10 P. m.; Buffalo 4.05 a. sr.	.
9.11 p. sr. (No. 6), Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40; Cleveland, 7 05; Buffalo. 110 p. at.
7.54 p. st. (No. 10) Toledo Express. Slain Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.30 a. sr„ Cleveland 7.05 a sr., Buffalo ITO p. at.
3.55 p- [No.70], Local Freight. GOING WEST.
3.20 a. st. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicago 6 30 A. sr.
4.50 a. sr. (No 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.40 Cnicago, S 00 a. m.
5.5 5 p. sr. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives a-• Laporte, G 55; Chicago, 9.10 P. sr.
4.51 p. m. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte 5.45; Chicago, 8 00.
8.00 a. sr. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Lapoote 8.55 A. ar, Chicago 11.10.
720 a. m. [No. 71J Local Freight.
Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers upon Through Freight Trains.
J W. CARY, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H PARSONS, Snu’t Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t
LOUISVII.LE N. ADBATJT & CHICAGO R.R.
On and after Sunday. Nov. 12, 1873, trains pass New Albanyana Salem Crossing, as follows;
GOING NON TE.
P ass ....
Freight. Freight. —Pass....
.7 29 p .2.48 A. .8.57 P.
31.
SI.
.9;21a. m.-
Pass .. Freight Freight Pass..-.,
GOINGSOUTH.
. .8 23 p.3t. 10 47 a an .4.45 a.m. 11.23-a.m.
H. N. CANIFF, Agent
Michigan Central Railroad.
WINTER ARRANGEMENT.
Taking effect December 27th, 1874.	*
Going	East.	
Trains.	Leave Chicago.	Leave Niles.	Arrive at Detroit.
Mail -	-	-	5 00 a m	9 02 a tn	5 45pm
Day Express -	- 8 30 a m	11 47 am	6 30pm
Accommodation -	3 35pm	7 35 pm	8 45am
Atlantic Express - 5 15pm	855pm	3 50am
Night Express - - 900pm	'	1245 pm	8 00am
■	Going	W est;.	
Trains.	Leave Detroit.	Leave Niles.	Arrive at Chicago.
Mail -	-	-	7 00am	4 05pm	8 05pm
Day Express -	- 10 20 a m	5 20pm	9 00 pm
Accommodation -	1 50 p m	6 30am	10 35 a m
Evening Express - 540pm	2 3i’am	63»am
Pacific Express - - 10 00 p m	5 00am	830 am •
NILES AND SOUTH BEND DIVISION. .
Leave South Bend—8 00 a m, 3 00 pm. 630 pm, *9 00 am, *T00pm.
Arrive at Niles—S 45 a m, 3 55 p m. 710 p m *9 40 a m, *740 p m.
Leave Niles—G 30 am. 9 20 am. 510 pm, * 8 00 am. t 5 00 pm.
Arrive at South Bend—715 am, 10 00am, 555 pm, $840 am, $5 40 pm
NOTRE DAME STATION.
Going East, -via Dfiles.
Depart—8 07 a m, 6,38 pm, $9 07 am, $7 07pm.
Arrive—7 07 am, 942 am, 546pm, $832 am, $532pm
Going W est. yia DTiles.
Depart—3 10 p m. Arrive—9 42 a m.
£37“ Trains marked thus ♦ + run Sunday only.
C. D. WHITCOMB, General Ticket Agent, Detroit, Mich.
FRANK E. SNOW, Gen. Western Passenger Agent, Detroit, Mich.
S. R. KING, Passenger and Freight Agent, South Bend, Ind.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agent, NotreDame, Ind.
H. C. WENTWORTH, General Passenger Agent, Chicago.
W.B. STRONG,
General Superintendent, Chicago.
Chicago Alton and St. Louis Line.
tJS'RAINS leave West Side Union Depot, Chicago, near Qj) Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis arfd Springfield Express, via Main Line
Kansas City Fast Express, via ' Jacksonville, III., and Louisiana, Mo.
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Slain Line,
St.Louis and Spri ngfield Lightning Express, via Slain Line, and also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill. Ill., and Louisiana, SIo.
LEAVE
ARRIVE.
♦9:30 a.m.
♦9:45 a.m.
♦9:30 a.m.
♦4:10 p.m.
$6:30 p.m.
$9:00 p.m.
$9:45 p.m.
*8:00 p.m
♦4:30 p.m
*4:30 p.m,
*9:40 a.m.
♦4:30 .m.
37:15 a.m,
§7:15 a.m
♦ Except Sunday. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only $ Ex' cept Saturday. B Dail y. § Except. Monday.
The only road running 3 Express Trains to St.Louis daily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains. JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent, CHICAGO.
Gen’l Superintendent, CHICAGO
PEANSYLVANIA CENTRAL
DOUBLE TRACK BAILROAD.
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Trains, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and New
.	York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9 00 p. m. 1 Arrives at New York 11.30 a.m.* 2d train “	“	5.15 p. m.	“	“	6.41 a.m*
3rd train “	“	9.00. p. m. |	“	“	11.30 p.m.*
Connections at Crestline with trains North and South, and Mannsfield with traius on’Atlantic and Great Western Railroad. .
J. N. McCULLOUGll, Gen’l Manager, Pittsburgh.
J. M.C. CREIGHTON, Assistant Superintendent Pittsburgh.
D. M. BOYD, Jr.., Gen Pass, and Ticket Ag’t, Phieiphia.
F. R. MYEK8, Geu’i Pass and Ticket Ag’t Pittsburgh.
W. C. CLELLAND, Ass’t Gen’l Pass.-Agent, Chicago.
♦Second day.