Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disee quasi semper vic turns; vlve quasi eras niorltunis.
Volume XIV.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 29, 1881.
Number 19.
Our Staff.
G. E. Clarke, ’81.
G. F. Sugg, ’81.
T. F. Clarke, ’83.
W. B. McGorrisk, '82.
F. W. Bloom, ’81.
H. C. Simms, ’83.
W. H. Arnold, ’82.
R. E. Fleming, ’83.
F. H. Greyer, ’83.
Launching into Eternity.
It was a brave attempt! adventurous he Who in the first ship broke the unknown sea: • And, leaving his dear native shores behind, Trusted his life to the licentious wind.
I see the surging brine: the tempest raves, He on a pine-plank rides across the waves, Exulting on the edge of thousand gaping graves He steers the winged boat, and shifts the sails, Conquers the flood, and manages the gales.
Such is the soul that leaves this mortal land, Eearless when the great Master gives command. Death is the storm: she smiles to hear it roar, And bids the tempest waft her from the shore. Then with a skilful helm she sweeps the seas, And manages the raging storm with ease;
Her faith can govern death; she spreads her wings Wide to the wind, and as she sails she sings, And loses by degrees the sight of mortal things. As the shores lessen so her joys arise, The waves roll gentler, and the tempest dies; Now vast eternity fills all her sight, She floats on the broad deep with infinite delight The seas for ever calm, the skies forever bright.
Isaac Watts.
.	Native History.
BY W. B. MCGORRISK.
History, we are all aware, is an important and useful study; and he who is well versed iu it possesses a storehouse from which he can draw many and useful lessons. It gives him a better knowledge of men and events, and opens to him a more extensive field for observation and study. In the study of history, as with every other study, a method should be pursued. As the same outline or course of reading would not be equally beneficial to all, a course suited to each individual taste should be selected. The geologist will eagerly follow successive stages in
the earth’s formation, and endeavor to ascertain the origin or causes of the many phenomena which it exhibits. The physician, if he wishes to become eminent, will endeavor to obtain an accurate knowledge of the history of his profession, and follow the successive stages of its progress from Hippocrates to the time when it became a science, and then follow it through the various stages of its progress to its present state of perfection. .
Thus it is with the devotees of other professions. They should not only be acquainted with them as they now are, but should also have a knowledge of their development from their germ to their present state of fruitfulness. When selecting a course of reading, we should choose those subjects which will interest and assist us, and with which we are supposed to be acquainted. What can be more beneficial or more interesting than the history of our native land ? Why should we follow in the wake of Alexander, rehearse the exploits of Julius Cassar, or follow a daring and ambitious leader across the Alps, to Moscow, and finally to Waterloo ? Why do we search for martial exploits at Thermopylae, Zama, or Pharsalia? Are..we familiar with the heroic actions of our own generals—Washington, Sherman, and Grant ? Have we shown our gratitude by grateful remembrance of the benefits procured for us by America’s patriots at Bunker Hill, Yorktown, or Gettysburg ?
It is a deserved accomplishment to be familiar with the history of foreign countries, and able to draw a parallel between Scipio and Annibal, or compare Caesar with Napoleon ; but it is more important and a greater accomplishment to be acquainted with the history of our own country and familiar with the events which shaped her progress and destiny. Yet there are students who devote a great part of their time to reading, who are unacquainted with the history of their native land. While at school, they read an abridged history of the United States, and soon throw aside this small volume, not to take up a more extended history of the country, but to pass on to the study of foreign and ancient history. Why is this ? Has not America produced writings and works sufficient for contemplation ? Is there not enough to occupy our attention a while longer in the laws of the country, in the writings of nativeauthors, and in the biographies of her illustrious citizens? America is not deficient in patriots, statesmen, orators, and writers. Her scholars and scientists have made some of the most startling and beneficial discoveries and inventions ever known to the world. Fulton opened the way for the mariner, that he might not lie idly by, waiting for favorable winds, but go steadily forward, whether in the calm seas of the tropics or the more turbulent waters of the Northern seas. Franklin has immortalized his name by his writings, works and discoveries.
290
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The American student need mot look abroad for examples of oratory in a Demosthenes or a Cicero; let him seek a Webster, a Clay, or a Calhoun. Nor is America deficient in novelists, historians, or ecclesiastics. Fenimore Cooper, the most national of our novelists, is entertaining and lifelike in his description of border and nautical life; Washington Irving, the Goldsmith of America, is the most popular of our authors; Wm. H Prescott is not only the most eminent of our historians, but the peer to any of modern Europe. Among our poets there is one that pleases alike the learned and the illiterate, one at least that is a luminous light among EngliA poets, one possessing the greatestpopularity among the poets of America or Great Britan, Of him Cardinal Wiseman says: “ Our hemisphere cannot claim the honor of having brought him forth; but still he belongs to us, for his works have become as household words wherever the English language is spoken. And whether we are charmed by his imagery, or soothed by his melodious versification, or elevated by the high moral teachings of his pure Muse, or follow with sympathizing hearts the wanderings of Evangeline, I am sure that all who hear my voice will join me in the tribute I desire to pay to the genius of Longfellow.”
The Catholics of America have found a zealous advocate and defender of their faith in Archbishop Spalding. He has written many volumes of controversial works, refuting the accusations and calumnies that have been hurled against the Church by sectional and infidel writers. He has left volumes the reading of which will instruct us in our faith and in the trials of the Church during the Reformation. Archbishop Kenrick’s translation and comments upon the Bible have been admired by both Catholics and non-Catholics, and many of the latter have not hesitated to give them the palm of excellence over all others. Bishop England stands prominently among the ecclesiastics of America, possessing talents of a high order, revered and loved by Protestants as well as Catholies. He devoted his life to God, and died in the performance of his priestly duties. If we strive to become use ful citizens in the common walks of life; or, if ambition leads us further, and we wish to rise to distinction, or if we rise above ambition and devote the life which God has given us to good works, renouncing all pleasures, making this life but a pilgrimage to the next, we still have great men to guide us; men who have risen to distinction in the daily walks of life; men who have gained renown at the bar, and in the senate; men who have devoted their lives to labors of love, love for God and their fellow men.
While we have the works and histories of such illustrious men we should not leave our own literature for that of another country. I do not mean to say that it is not a great benefit and pleasure to be acquainted with the history of Greece and Rome, but before taking up the histories of those countries we should become familiar with that of our own. When well acquainted with it, we can benefit ourselves and extend our knowledge by spending what time we have at our disposal in the study of the history of foreign nations, bearing in mind that the history of our own country demands our attention first, because it is of the utmost importance to us.
—Th@ word character comes from a term which means to engrave upon or cut in. Character is that inner substantial and very essential quality which is wrought into the very &ojjl, and makes a man what is.
Cruel Treatment of The Indians.
It is not my intention to enter upon a discussion as to how this country first became inhabited; neither shall I attempt a solution of a subject of Which so little is known at the present day, a subject which more learned men have had the good sense to let severely alone. It is the general opinion nowadays that the Indians were the original inhabitants of this continent; and yet it is certain that long before Columbus was ever dreamed of, this country, or at least a great portion of it, was inhabited by a race of men quite different from our American Indians—a fact to which the ancient remains daily unearthed amply testify.	-
The term mound-builders, as applied to these people, conveys to the mind a very indefinite idea, and only serves to involve the question in greater obscurity. Historians and archae.jlogists do not pretend to tell us what became of this people; but the inference we are led to draw leads to the hypothesis that they were driven southward by the Indians. On some portions of this continent, as in Peru and Mexico, they displayed a high degree of civilization, which we infer from the fact of their leaving behind them unmistakable signs to prove that they had well-organized governments and well-built cities, and that they manufactured cotton and woollen stuffs. They were masters of arts and sciences of which we at the present day, with all our boasted progress, are entirely ignorant. They worked in gold, brass and copper, displaying admirable skill in the manufacture of various ornaments from these metals. Could we have visited Mexico ere the pestiferous breath and ravaging footsteps of the pale-faced invader blighted their fair country, we would have seen a healthy, numerous and thrifty population, totally unacquainted with the noxious diseases and satanic vices of their successors; in fact, a people so uncorrupted that they had no words in their language expressive of cursing or swearing by the Name of their Creator—an infernal accomplishment so highly valued by their ruthless oppressors. They had walled cities and public buildings which, in some respects, were not surpassed by any in the land of the white man. Without the knowledge or aid of steam-engines wheeled vehicles, iron or steel implements, they quarried and transported to incredible distances immense blocks of granite over almost impassible roads, and raised them to such elevated positions in masonry as would set at defiance all the scientific and complicated machinery of our boasted nineteenth century.
We read every day many virulent, distorted and bitter invectives against the poor, simple Indians; appalling narrations of their cruel and blood-thirsty atrocities perpetrated on inoffensive, harmless border-settlers in the dark and silent hours of the night. But let us for a moment place ourselves in their position; and instead of saying “your ox gored my bull,” remember it was our bull that played the deuce 'with their ox. Were some barbarous and powerful chieftain—like Ghengis Khan or Tamerlane, at the head of a fierce and ferocious army of indomitable Tartars—to invade our smiling Atlantic State?, abolishing all our time-honored institutions, appropriating the fat of the land to his own use and that of his followers, and driving our people with fire and sword towards the Rocky Mountains; would we, I say, under such grievous provocation, think it cruel to employ all and every means given us by nature and nature’s God to exterminate the hostile invader,-and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
291
set free the land sanctified by the ashes of our saintly ancestors even at the cost of our lives ?
Experience teaches that the Indian, when treated justlj and honorably, is not one whit inferior to the white man in any of those noble qualities so much vaunted by the latter; and in generosity for benefits received, he far surpasses him, being ever ready to risk life and limb to save his benefactors. The murder of som: of the early Catholic missionaries by them was wholly due to the prior aggressions of the insatiable, avaricious colonists in New York, Florida, and other places—the injured and untutored aborigines looking on all pale faces as chips taken from the same block, coming among them merely as spies, and only awaiting a favorable moment to let loose their dogs of war on themselves and their children. In the French settlements of Canada, where the Indians were treated as men and brothers and instructed in the Christian religion, they might have been seen living in peace and harmony with the whites up to the present day; and England, witnessing these happy relations at the time of the conquest very prudently concluded to let good-enough alone. All history teaches that God punishes nations, as. well as individuals, for their crimes sooner or later; hence the people of these United States have good reason to tremble for the meed of retributive justice due them by a just God for their cruel treatment of the aborigines.
Let- us note well the humane sentiments of the gallant General Crook, uttered to a friend when ordered by Grant to advance in pursuit of the Indians: “ It is a hard thing,” said that lion-hearted soldier, “for the army of a free country like ours to be constantly called upon to sacrifice their lives in settling quarrels brought about by thieving contractors, agents and missionaries of the Indian Department, and still harder to be forced to fight and kill them when we know they are only fighting for their rights, and defending the graves of their ancestors from being polluted by the devastating march of usurping whites.” In a letter to the same friend, Mr. O’Mahony, of Dubuque, Iowa, he writes thus: “The Indians have repeatedly asked our government for schools, teachers and missionaries of their choice, but in vain; they only received political debauchees. The Indian has no protection under our laws. Let me cite the case of the * Red Cloud ’ and ‘ Spotted Tail ’ bands of the Sioux nation living near the British line. During the past six months, organized gangs of white thieves have stolen over 1,030 of their horses; and, as I understand, they cannot be recovered, even though seen in the hands of their captors.
“It is an established feature of American jurisprudence that the only people in this country who have no rights under the law are the original owners of the soil. Greek or German, Turk or Tartar, Swede or scalawag, will be protected in life or property, but the Indian commands respect for his rights only so long as he inspires terror by his trusty rifle.” The Catholic missionary is the only one in whom they will place implicit confidence, because he has never deceived them. He goes forth, crucifix jn hand, without wife or children hanging to his coat-tails, unprotected by bayonets and unsupported by Government gold, to seek his Divine Master’s sheep; and quickly do they recognize his voice. He does not, like the other self-sent Gospel spouters, open a store among them to trade off rotten blankets and damaged calicoes for their valuable furs, wheat and corn; nor does he build saw-mills for his own aggrandizement, to accumulate ft fortune ftnd then turn
merchant, bidding an eternal good-bye to the poor, deluded Indians, and the mutilated Gospel he preached to them, after introducing fire-water among them to swell his ill-gotten gains. Like His Divine Master Jesus Christ, the true Shepherd of souls, he eats, drinks, sleeps and prays in their rude wigwams, no matter how repulsive they may be; and the savages are quick to perceive that their simple black gown comes to garner in a harvest of souls, and not of dollars.
If our -Government wishes to live in peace with the poor savages, it can do so effectually by sending them Catholic missionaries; for in the war of 1847, while all the sectarian Indians deserted the standard of Uncle Sam and his uxorious shepherds, the Catholic Indians remained faithful to the Government and acted as valuable guides and scouts. The lamented Father De Smet, S. J., exercised an influence so potential, even among the pagan savages, who hold his name in benediction even down to the present day, that he often prevented many bloody wars after our ablest statesmen had failed to conciliate them.
Our pseudo civilization, instead of going among the untutored savages, holding out the wand of peace and endeavoring to conciliate them to social and commercial usages by kindness and respect for their rights, invariably begins with force, and thus surrounds itself with enemies instead of friends. The following account of an Indian massacre, the substance of which the writer has from one of the assailants, will more than justify all that I have written on this subject:
On the 10th of May, 1853, Captain Sumner, with a strong gang of beaver hunters and trappers, set out towards the Southwest, near the Rocky Mountains, and was soon joined by another numerous party. On the second day they perceived, with the aid of a spy-glass, about 150 Indians—men, women, and children—advancing to meet them; some were on horseback, fantastically painted and arrayed, with scarlet blankets, fluttering in the breeze; they perceived the trappers before they did them, and peaceably advanced to warn them away from their huntinggrounds. They were the advanced guard of a party of Blackfeet. One of the whites, carrying a flag of truce, advanced to meet the Indian chief, who came forward with the pipe of peace; but while shaking the hand of the confiding savage with his left, he shot him dead with his right. He then stripped him of his scarlet blanket, which was richly ornamented, and galloped off to his camp, the bullets of the enemy whistling after him. The Indians immediately fled to a swamp close by, and began to fortify themselves, the women digging a trench, and throwing up a breastwork of logs and branches, while the warriors from behind the trees kept the trappers at a respectful distance. Couriers were at once dispatched to all the white camps far and near, and before night the locality was swarming with intrepid pale-faced horsemen, burning with desire to avenge their people, and have satisfaction for the imaginary bloody and unprovoked assault of the cruel Indians. The whites, now growing bold in their numbers, which far surpassed the enemies, advanced cautiously into the swamp and got a glimpse of the improvised fortress; it was a mere breastwork of logs and branches, with blankets, buffalo robes, and other covering of their lodges, extended around the top for a screen. The movement of the whites, as they groped their way, was soon descried by the lynx-eyed enemy; and their leader, who was in advance of the others, (many of
282
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
whom preferred leading the charge from behind) was shot through the heart; he was the same scoundrel who shot the confiding Indian chief.
A brisk fire was now opened on the stockade, answered feebly by the poor Indians, who kept doggedly to their positions, and making no overtures of a surrender. As night approached, the whites withdrew, but kept a strict guard near the fort; and when day appeared it was found that the enemy retreated. Thirty-six dead Indians were found, and twenty-eight dead horses; but they carried away all their wounded. At sunset, the previous day, it was resolved to set fire to the Indian fort, but the half-breeds in the employ of the trappers dissuaded them from it, knowing if the fort surrendered that much of the spoil would fall to their lot.
It is thus the injured party is always maligned and misrepresented by his guilty enemies, as we see fully exemplified in Ireland at the present day. When the Irish complain of their wrongs, and demand justice, their country is flooded with troops to provoke them to insurrection, and then their leaders and best men are arrested and tried for high treason, as we see now in the case of Parnell and his associates.	JohnMatha.
Art, Music and Literature.
—“Aida” has pleased the Cubans.
—Franz Liszt has left Rome for Pesth.
—Madrid is to have an International Exhibition in the spring.
—M. Yvon has been elected Professor of Drawing in the Ecole Polytechnique.
—The picture by Millet, called “ Le Tueur de Cochons,” has been sold for 75,000 francs.
—The Emperor of Austria has made Munkacsy, the painter, an hereditary Hungarian noble.
—Mr. "Van Zandt, the father of the young American prima donna, Marie Van Zandt, is a resident of Boston.
—Karl Formes, the renowned basso, resides in San Francisco. He gives vocal lessons, and frequently sings in opera in that city.
—Patti’s contract for America is signed at last. She will remain here two years. Nicolini will be the leading tenor of her company.
—A geographical society has lately been formed at Oporto in connection with that of Lisbon, under the title of Sociedade Portuguese de Geographia.
—Gerome’s recent and important work, “ The Serpent Charmer,” has arrived in New York, and will be shortly exhibited at one of the prominent dealer’s galleries. It is an order from Mr. Albert Spencer, whose collection, sold a couple of years ago, was the most artistic ever brought under the hammer. It cost §17,000.
—A new and great catacomb has been discovered before the S. Pancrazio Gate, at Rome. It has ten chapels, and extends as far as the foundations of the Villa Doria Pam-phili. All the graves have been previously opened, but the discoverer hopes that he may still come upon some which have been left undisturbed. He believes the catacomb to be connected with that of St. Julius, Pope.
—The inedited manuscripts by Da Vinci, twelve in number, written in reverse, as was customary with the painter, which have long been among the treasures of the library of the French Institute, are being published in facsimile, with their accompanying sketches and illustrative drawings and diagrams. The first volume contains notes on painting, drawing, observations on cosmology, geography, the percussion, resistance, and movement of water, light, heat, etc.	v
—There is talk of transferring Mr. Arthur Sullivan’s c7«/ cC autre, “H. M. S. Pinafore,” to the Parisian boards. We think, says the Continental Gazette, the venture would probably prove a brilliantly succesful one. The work hat charmed England and drove all the United States Azy would undoubtedly please a Parisian audience, if
not by the solemn fun of its broad caricature of men and things, at least by the dash and sparkle of its delightful music. Even “LaFillede Madame Angot” is not more full of mirthful and ear-catching melody than is that bewitching operetta. We do not know if it be purposed to produce a French version of the work or the original English rendering. The latter will probably prove the most sucessful, though a French libretto would certainly not prove very difficult of preparation.
—About twenty-five people gathered at Lauter’s piano rooms yesterdav afternoon to listen to the piano-forte playing of Ernest H. Schelling, a child but three months past the age of five years. As the verdict was unanimous, and as the cultured musicians present were quite as enthusiastic as the amateurs, it will be safe to affirm that he is the greatest musical phenomenon of his size and age that has ever appeared in this city. As several artists expressed it, they had come prepared to be astonished over the precocity of a child, but remained to be astonished over the performance of a musician. Master Ernest shows none of the signs of infant precocity, or of forced talent. He “ takes to the piano with an ease and gracefulness that others acquire only by long years of patient training.” He plays without apparent effort, often glancing around him while engaged on a piece requiring great technical skill. He will turn the leaves without losing a note, and never becomes confused or embarrassed. It is a mystery how he can produce such a volume of sound with so slight a physique, and with hands that can barely reach an octave; but, in playing a duet, if there was any difference in force, or in delicacy' of touch, it was in favor of the boy and not of the man. The pieces played yesterday prove that Master Schelling is not contracted in his repertoire. They were a “Sonatina,” by Clementi; “Nocturne,” by Mendelssohn; “March,” by Koutsky; and duets, “Sonati,” by Beethoven; the famous duet from “ Lucia di Lam-mermoor; and the “Philomel Polka,” by Cbr. Kunkel. Several persons were attracted by the strong resemblance he bears to Mozart, and the resemblance extends to the early life of the great composer. In form he is light and active, with a large head for his age; bright, full, large eyes, and a dark complexion. He is given all the opportunity for exercise that he needs, and, away from the piano, he is as active a romp as any boy of his age. His father is the principal teacher at Brooke Hall Seminary, Media, Pa., and it is his desire that the boy shall have a thorough education, and, to this end, he is open to a limited number of engagements for concerts.—Newark Daily Advertiser.
Scientific Notes.
—One of the new inventions or discoveries is that of Kaloo, a compound that has about nine times the explosive force of giant powder. Its inventor, Prof. Collins, of Pennsylvania, has been engaged to use it in blasting rock in the Atlantic-Pacific Tunnel, and will soon be in Colorado to begin its manufacture. It is a liquid, in tin tubes that slip into the hole made by the drill, and is touched off by electricity. A very' little of it does about four times as much as powder or nitroglycerine can do in the breaking and hoisting out rock. This wonderful explosive will greatly cheapen the cost of tunnelling through rock.
—A young lady' of Boston went one day to an oculist with a trouble with her eyes that threatened frightful results. She was already' in a state where reading was out of the question, and any other entertainment was fast becoming a torment. The oculist looked at her with his professional wisdom, asked her various questions, and then suddenly amazed her by asking her to put out her foot. The foot, in its kid boot, with a wicked little high heel, was thrust forth. The doctor eyed it a moment with a stolid face. “Go home,” he said, “and take off those heels; keep them off for a month, and then come to me again, and we’ll see how your eyes are! ” In a rqpnth the eyes were well and the young lady learned by her experience and a little wise talk how near she had come to having no eyes at all. It serves to show that there is the pos
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
293
sibility that with that instrument of torture constantly at work in the centre of the foot, where so many delicate nerves and tendons lie that are so intimately connected with all the other delicate nerves of the body, there must presently come some disarrangement and disease that may work fatal mischief with the health, and the pressure of the toes, occasioned by high heels, has a bad effect on the optic nerves.
—Under the heading of “ Science at Breakfast,” the editor of Science groups together a great deal of information on the action of tea, codec and chocolate. The latter, he says, from its large proportion of albumen, is the most nutritive beverage, but at the same time, from its quantity of fat, the most difficult to digest. Its aromatic substances, however, strengthen the digestion. A cup of chocolate is an excellent restorative and invigorating refreshment even for weak persons, provided their digestive organs are not too delicate. Cardinal Richelieu attributed to chocolate his health and hilarity during his later years. Tea-and coffee do not afford this advantage. Albumen in tea leaves and legumin in coffee berries, are represented in very scanty proportions. The praise of tea and coffee as nutritive substances is, therefore, hardlv warranted. Tea and coffee, though of themselves not difficult of digestion, tend to disturb the digestion of albuminous substances by precipitating them from their dissolved state. Milk, therefore, if mixed with tea or coffee, is more difficult of digestion than if taken alone, and coffee alone without cream promotes digestion after dinner by increasing the secretion of the dissolving juices. The volatile oil of coffee and the empyreumatic and aromatic matters of chocolate accelerate the circulation, which, on the other hand, is calmed by tea.
Exchanges.
—The last number of The Freeman's Journal announces that Mr. Maurice F. Egan will hereafter be associate editor with Mr. McMaster. This is certainly good news for the readers of the Freeman. Mr. Egan, although a young man, has already made his mark ^periodical literature, both in prose and poetry, and we have no doubt the productions of his talented pen will so enrich the Freeman's Journal as to make the investment a profitable and pleasing one for both publisher and readers. Mr. Egan has for some time been a favorite contributor to the pages of Scribner and Lippincott, but we presume he will now devote .his whole energy to the paper with which he has associated" himself. We congratulate Mr. McMaster on the wisdom of his selection.
—The Alabama University Monthly for January is a bright, sparkling number. The poem on “ Tasso ” is a good one, and the prose sketches are well written. Judging from the general comments of exchange editors, who are the “ critics” of the college press, the sketches of The Alabama University Monthly should be popular, for they possess the merit of brevity. There are five in all—“The Switzerland of America,” “Williau Wordsworth,” “The Advantages of Military Discipline in Higher Institutions of Learning,” “Chaucer,” “Ireland: Her Glories and her Wrongs.” The Monthly contains a fair amount of gossip and excerpta, and the only fault we can find is that the latter are not credited. If an item is worth copying it is worth crediting, and crediting an item does not by any means detract from its interest.
—The Lariat comes at last, with an apology for its nonappearance, heretofore, among our exchanges. “Purely an oversight,” says the exchange editor. All right, Lariat. Our Wabash contemporary has spread itself somewhat since our first acquaintance with it; four additional pages give the editors room to spread themselves correspondingly. The Lariat editorial is spicy, and some of it decidedly Pagan or Ingersollian, as it is called nowadays. At least this is our impression; we hope we are wrong in our inference. There is too much of this infidel tendency nowadays—a reaction from the straight-laced, iron-bound religious principles taught by so many would-be reformers. Why, only the other day we saw in a sombre philosophical article in The Varsity, a statement that if a boy took a swim on a Sunday it would be one of the greatest
crimes that a boy could be guilty of! As if swimming were a sin, or swimming on Sunday a sin either, if it was not done to the neglect of some imperative duty, or through disobedience. A wholesome, cheerful religion is one’thing, and sombre sentimentality another. They differ vastly,—in fact, are diametrically opposed to one another.
—“The Notre Dame Scholastic, while possessing some excellent characteristics, either manifestly fails in its design to represent its college, or else represents a college wholly distinct from the typical American institution of that name. The entire literary section of the issue of December 11th is devoted to controversial articles of a theological nature; and this is the peculiarity not of this number alone, but of the general tone of the paper. We admit, of course, that such controversy is in itself altogether proper and desirable, but the sufficient cause of its occupying the columns of a college paper Is not quite apparent. Even in the exchange department five solid columns are devoted to a defence and eulogy of the Catholic Church. The erudition displayed in the discussion almost induces the belief that the prominent study at Notre Dame must be that of ecclesiastical history. Another writer, speaking of Indulgences, asserts: ‘First, that from its very nature, an Indulgence can neither be gained nor purchased by money. Second, that neither Pope Leo X, nor any other Pope, ever sold Indulgences, or sanctioned such sale. Third, that no true Catholic ever dreamed of making eash bargains of Indulgences, as the whole wealth of Vanderbilt could not of itself enable any one to gain even the smallest partial Indulgence.’ These surely are sweeping statements, and evince a greater confidence in the entire purity of the Church’s record than we had been wont to think was held even by Catholics themselves.
“The Scholastic gives evidence in its columns of faithful work by the editors, and in many respects is meriting of praise. The feature to which we have alluded, however, might with advantage be curtailed or altogether omitted.”—TheBrunonian.
While admitting that such controversy is proper, and even desirable, the exchange editor of The Brunonian is hardly reasonable in wishing to deny it a place in the college paper, under proper restrictions, of course. We confess that without such restrictions it should not be admitted anywhere. On almost any other subject, we are apt to give rein to our fancy, but when we touch upon religion we feel that we are treading on sacred ground, and although we may not hold in esteem the doctrines of this or that sect, we yet respect in it the feelings of those who honestly, though mistakenly, hold to its tenets. When we argue upon such matters we will do so in a friendly way, or not at all, and while others treat us in like manner no harm can result.
—Among the “Brevities” in The Cornell Review is the statement that the Era “ is endeavoring to become an illustrated paper.” To be brief, we might say we think so too, but this would not be enough. We enjoyed those wood— no, iridium—cuts, immensely, and every time we look at or think of them, the laugh bursts out afresh. First, in the place of “honor,” is a press representing The Notre Dame Scholastic grinding out a huge Roll of Honor—a Chinaman in clogs at the wheel, doing the grinding business instead of the ordinary steam-engine; the Columbia Spectutor comes next, a big ’tater, with the words “ Columbia Specked-tater "; the Acta Columbiana “ caught in the Act-ah! ” of throwing mud-ah! at the University of Penn, and the C. U. Boat Clubs; the Cornell Sun, with the man in the moon transferred to it, and the words “3-ct. Sun” printed on his forehead, with a huge paste-tub and brush, and a pair of shears to write up the correspondence; the Niagara Index “ rinktum ” with a coffin, a picture labelled “ Sara,” a bottle of kerosene, one with red ink, a barrel of gore, a tub of poison, etc., etc., with a pile of exchanges on the floor, literally half-bound in boards with the blade of a huge dagger; the Oberlin Review man laying down the points to a Sunday-school class in one compartment, and in another politely refusing a fuming tankard of—beer, in a coffee house; then the Yale Record,—“Mistress of the Seize" —represented as an old hag, one of the witches in Macbeth perhaps—seizing the Democratic flag. Such is the representation of a few of the Era's exchanges—according to Nast. The pictures may be, and no doubt are, “nasty” ones in some respects, but we enjoyed them nevertheless. The exchange editor evidently enjoyed the fun as well as we, and, no doubt, has had the first turn at the laugh, for he lets himself out in right royal style in this number, pitches into the Sun without the least seeming regard for the heat
294
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of the solar rays—be careful, old fellow, or you may yet get scorched, or even ^Sun-struck—combs the hair of the Oberlin Review man with a chair, has a dance with the Index man and kicks him on the shin, and finally winds up the enter. tainment with the following speech about the Scholastic :
“The Notre Dame Scholastic comes to the front again; this time with chunks of solid wisdom, of which this is a sample:
‘ Tn conclusion, young gentlemen of the country, instead of exposing vour precious souls to the many temptations and dangers that wifi beset your paths and stare you in the face at every streetcorner, I would honestly advise you to send the following dispatch to all your city cousins : Oh you foolish votaries at the shilne of city life and fashion, who are vegetating in an unhealthy atmosphere, with a greenish-pale complexion, like so many rare exotics In a dark cellar, come out in the open air and warm sunshine of the country, and add lustre to your eyes, bloom to your cheeks, elasticity to your steps, and vigor to your frame. Oh you screwed-up. punv. lean, lank, theatre-going, consumption-mortgaged sons of fashion and idleness, come out in the country
‘ And view Dame Nature’s sunny smiles O’er landscapes vast and grand. Her treasures lavish pouring forth
With an unsparing hand.
Her cheeks aglow with early dawn Of rosy morn so fair.
Will cheer your hearts and banish thence All sorrow, grief and care.’
“Yes, and ‘ chaw terbacker,’ eat salt pork, polish ham-bones with your mouths, etc., etc. Oh! a lordly life. We have been trying to find out for a long time what made the Notre Dame people so saint-like. It must be the fact they were reared in the country. But then, education is hard to get in the country, and that’s the reason, probably, the above extract is wretchedly punctuated. However, the latest number of the Scholastic is the best one that has reached us since we succeeded to the editorial pistol and quill. In answer to the inquiry, ‘ What is the matter with the Cornell Era?' we have only to state that we have been enjoying our three weeks’ vacation, and the temporary riddance from exchanges that have, meanwhile, accumulated. We think that we’ll let that obit, wait at present. If the new board of the Scholastic, to begin its labors in February, does not keep the paper up to its present standard of excellence, an enviable one on the whole, we may perhaps get one ready for the mortuary celebration that ought to ensue. The esteem in which we hold our contemporary seems to be reciprocated, for it says: ‘ We like the Cornell Era, although we have sometimes yielded to the temptation of poking fuu at its exchange editor—he of the foreign ‘roots.’ So great, in fact, is our esteem for the Scholastic, that we have been at a large expense in procuring an authentic portrait of its head-editor, which is given in our gallery of exchange likenesses of this week.
The Era editor when pitching into the Sun seems utterly regardless of coup de soleil; perhaps he had his head chain-plated before engaging in the dance with the Index editor, and in consequence considered himself safe from the radiant attacks of the hot luminary aforesaid; but coup de sole-heel doesn’t always strike a man in the head. So look out, old fellow; keep well out of reach of the bona leges of the Sun and Review men, or you may have to begin a new Era anyhow.
—It will be remembered that about six weeks ago we took exception to certain statements made in The College Courier, and went to some length to disprove them. It is true that the original point at issue was the charge of inconsistency made by us to the statement that the Church was at one and the same time “ a great factor in civilization” and at “variance with the great principles of Christianity,” but in rebutting it the editor of the Courier made a number of other charges, each of them fully as serious as that upon which the dispute originally hinged. These charges we took as our contemporary made them, and new he charges us with dodging the main issue, and launching our thunderbolts at a man of straw of our own manufacture. This is not fair. We did not dodge the original question, and the “ man of straw ” w’as the work of the hands of our confrere of the Courier. He asserted the civilizing influence of Mohammedanism: we disproved the assertion. He asserted the civilizing influence of paganism; we disproved that also. He asserted that the Roman Catholic Church was a richly perfumed corpse: we showed from the testimony of some of the most sturdy of her opponents that she possessed greater numerical strength than nearly alljher opponents combined. Was this evading the question at issue, and setting up a man of straw, of our own making ? We think not. To disprove our assertion that a church or religion could not be a factor in civilization and at the same time opposed to Chris-
tianity, the editor of the Courier pointed to the civilizing influences of Mohammedanism, Buddhism, and the religion of Apollo. We accepted the test, and showed that both Mohammedanism and paganism were too weak to bear the strain. We proved conclusively that, on the one hand, neither Mohammedanism nor paganism could be, from their very essence, factors in civilization, and, on the other, that whatever civilization was possessed by the nations professing a belief in either, was in spite of the effect of such religion upon them. The Courier cites Carlyle against us, but the quotation is so weak, and inapt, that it needs no refutation. It is simply poetic bosh. Here it is:
“To the Arab nation it was as a birth from darkness into light; Arabia first became alive by means of it. A poor shepherd people, roaming unnoticed in its deserts since the creation of the world; a Hero-Prophet was sent down to them with a word they could believe; see! the unnoticed becomes worldnotable—the small has become world,-great; within one cen-I tury afterwards Arabia is in Grenada bn this hand, and Delhi on that—glancing in valor and splendor and the light of genius, Arabia shines through long ages over a great section of the world. Belief is great, life-giving. The history of a nation becomes fruitful, soul elevating, great, so soon as it believes.”
What puerile nonsense, even though it does come from Carlyle! The assertion of our contemporary that we sought to evade the test by citing the present rather than the past condition of the Islamitic nation or tribes, is without weight. We would just as lief have taken Islamism at the zenith of its glory, as now, and have shown how equally shallow is his argument. We took Islamism in its principles, and condemned it upon those principles. Good bread cannot be made of bad flour, first or last. On the other hand, the editor of the Courier calls Curtins, whom Macaulay in bis review of Mitford calls the “romancing ” historian of Greece, to his aid, to prop up the religion of Apollo and varnish it into a civilizing influence, but it is of no avail. Curtius writes, in the passage quoted, in a sickly sentimental strain. We give the quotation entire, to show how utterly worthless it is:
“ ‘In the entire religious life of the Greeks, however, no great epoch is more clearly marked than the first appearance of Apollo. It resembles a second day of creation in the history of their spiritual development. In all the Greek towns Irom which a rich treasure of myths has been handed down to us, there attaches itself to his blessed arrival a lofty revolution ot the social order of things, a higher development of life. The roads ace levelled, the quarters of the towns are marked out, the castles are encircled with walls, things sacred are separated from things profane. The sound of song and stringed instruments is heard; men approach nearer to the gods; Zeus speaks to them through his prophets; and guilt, even the guilt of blood, no longer rests inexpiable, like a leaden weight, on ill-fated man, no longer drags itself as a curse from generation to generation. Rather as the laurel cleanses the sultry air, so the laurel-crowned god purifies Orestes from his stains of blood, and restores to him serenity of soul; the dread power of Erin-nyes broken; and a higher harmony, a reign of grace is founded.’
“Again, Vol. II, page 28: ‘Apollo demands at once a wise moderation, the establishment of a firm reign over sensuality and a strong command over the passions, and the prevalence of a sober calm in the mind. When it is remembered how, through Apollo, the femal sex too attained to an honorable position as the organ of his will, how with him the weak and helpless find protection, the guilty expiation, and the evil doers pardon, it is impossible not to recognize in how high a degree the Delphic god, through the mouth of his priests, taught and fostered what may be designated as the flower of the moral national consciousness of the Hellenes.”
What else could be expected from a pagan like Quintus Curtius? Even his language condemns his statements. It is evident, however, that our friend of the Courier has not read Curtius very closely, as both he and Plato, the latter in his Minos, make mention of the demoniacal rite of offering children to Moloch—that is, the children were placed in the arms of his brazen statue, which at once bent downward and dropped the infants into a burning furnace at its feet. Grote tells us in his History of Greece (vol. i, p. 16,) that the most shameful mutilation of children “was seen with melancholy frequency in the domestic life, as well as in the religious worship of Phrygia and other parts of Asia.” As to the honorable (?) position attained by the female sex under the religion of Apollo, it is certain that it existed only in the mind of Curtius. “The vilest immorality of pagan civilization,” as Manahan asserts, in his chapter

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
295
on the “ Debasement of Woman in Classical Society,” "always began by the abuse of woman, and commonly ended in the degradation, and debasement into slavery, and even the final contempt, of woman. The fate of girlhood and womanhood, all throughout those dazzling empires of old, can never be made faintly visible, or even comprehensible, in all its dismal gloominess, to those whose path through life, however lowly or devious, is still everywhere cheered by the rays of the ‘ Orient Sun of Justice,’ and gilded by the sweet radiance of the ‘ Morning Star.’ ” The doom of the hapless infant, he elsewhere says, even when spared from violent death, was sealed by the fate of the mother iu almost every walk of life. Less wretched was the lot of the female infant that perished in the fire of Melcarth or Saturn, in the running stream, or by the fangs of a brute beast, than the miserable condition of those who lived only to pander from their girlhood even to death to the brutal whims of a pagan monster. The drudgery of the female slaves who turned the mills, worked in the fields and built the palaces of their masters was light when compared to the defilement of the high-born under a religion which worshipped Apollo, a deity represented as a complete slave to his sensual appetites, even in Homer’s time, before paganism bad as yet descended to the depths of corruption of the school of Epicurus. Even Mr. Gladstone admits that he does not find it clear “ that in any place of the poem [of Homer], any deity appears, either as the guardian of purity or as the avenger of infraction ” [vol. ii, p. 379]. With Bacchus worshipped as the god ot drunkenness, Mars as the god of violence and bloodshed, Venus as the goddess of lust, and even imperial Juno, the least debased of all, represented by Homer as so angry at the mean appearance and lameness of her infant son, Vulcan, that she pitched him into the sea, what might be expected from a people who could not be expected to aim even at the quasi perfections of their divinities? Curtius may write his sickly sentimentality, but this does not purge the religion of Apollo from its horrible impurities. Mosheim (chap, i) says: “ Some gods had animals, others had men offered in sacrifice to them: the rites were for the most part senseless and ridiculous, and commonly filthy, obscene and cruel: the festivals and solemnities were soiled with the most uncleanprofligacies and the greatest iniquities: it was allowable to practice these things even in the dwelling-places of the false gods. . . Vicious and most impious were the lives of the upper, middle and lower classes, and they committed with impunity crimes and horrors that decent ears cannot now bear lo hear named." Themistocles, the great Athenian general, sacrificed three handsome Grecian youths, nephews of Xerxes, at Salamis, to Bacchus, at the command of Euphrantides, the soothsayer. And with him, as with the generality of pagans, cruelty and impurity went hand in hand. We confess that as we pored over the pages of Rollin, in our early boyhood days, our sympathies went out much stronger to the mobile and polished Athenians than to those living under the iron-clad civilization of Sparta, but when in later years we read of the same Themistocles harnessing four naked women to a chariot and compelling them lo draw him across the Ceramicus in sight of the multitude there assembled, even the polished Athenians fall very low, in our estimation, in the scale of civilization. Not until the dawn of Christianity was woman, except among the Jews, anything more than a helot, subject to the whim of man, and female servants were goaded by their mistresses with the whip or pricked with the dagger’s point. Virtue was phenomenal, almost unknown even by name, among the pagans. But when a woman was elevated in the person of the Blessed Virgin Mary, the Lily of Israel, and the brightest gem of womanhood, to the dignity of the Mother of God, a new era dawned for the sex, and the Church has always placed her in her proper position and secured her the privileges which are her due. Protestantism has taken a step back to paganism in denying Mary the privilege of Mother of God, and has followed up this by a second step in its divorce laws; but in the Church, woman will always hold her high position. The purity, peace and happiness of the family is the groundwork of civilization, and these rest on the divine law; as mankind recede from this law, they recede from true civilization, no matter what their outward show or material prosperity may be. Again, we say, paganism could not be a
factor in civilization. As this is the test-point given by the Courier in the question as to whether the Catholic religion could be a factor in civilization and opposed to Christianity, we rest satisfied with its utter demolition. That a thing cannot be and not be at the same time is an axiom in philosophy.
Mitford, in his History of Greece, says it is evident from the writings of Xenophon and Plato that even in the golden ages of Grecian civilization there were no commonly received principles to protect the weak and destitute by determining alike, for all, the boundaries of right and wrong, justice and injustice, honesty and dishonesty. Aristotle (Polit. vii, 16) states that child-murder was common, the exposure of infants being permitted by law, and was a common practice throughout Greece, excepting Thebes, where the Government took charge of them only to make them the slaves for life of anyone who was willing to rear them. So common was this, that Tacitus (Hist. v. 5) singled out among the peculiarities of the Jews that they held child-murder to be a crime. Of Rome, which also worshipped Jupiter Apollo, and which our contemporary of the Courier would no doubt call highly civilized in its palmy days—Grotius gives the following testimony: “Almost everywhere human blood was shed to appease the gods, nor did the Roman laws prevent this: the most sacred solemnities of Geres and Bacchus were filled with obscenity : the days sacred to the gods were honored with spectacles which Cato was ashamed to witness: the mutual slaughter of the gladiators formed a public entertainment for the pagans; every day, children were thrown out and exposed to die.” And yet our Christian friend of the Monmouth College Courier calls such a religion a factor in civilization, and such a state of affairs— with innumerable horrors omitted for want of space—civilization! 0 temporal 0 mores! Rollin says: “It would have been desirable, perhaps, that the ruins in which idolatry lies buried bad covered up along with it, never again to appear on earth, all those fatal monuments and filthy remains of paganism that are only too well fitted to poison and corrupt the human mind. But Divine Providence has permitted them to outlive the downfall of idolatry for the purpose no doubt of ever bearing testimony throughout the lapse of all ages to the horrid impurities and excesses which the pagan religion [of Apollo] not only tolerated, but commanded, and even consecrated, by the example of the gods.” What does our friend of the Courier say to that ? It is only when we look back upon the atrocities of preChristian times that we can have a true idea of what the Catholic Church—the Catholic Church, mark you, for there were then no Episcopalians, Presbyterians Lutherans, Quakers, Bablists, or Methodists—has done for the human race in emancipating it from the thraldom of the religion of Apollo.
As to our contemporary’s assertion that “ the mission of the Church of Rome has long been fulfilled,” it finds its answer in the words of Christ, that she shall exist to the end of time; her mission will end only with the end of the world. That abuses have existed we readily admit: but because a terrible abuse existed among the Apostles in the person of Judas Iscariot, is that a reason why the disciples should discard Christianity, or follow Simon Magus rather than Simon Peter? Certainly not. The Catholic Church once acknowledged as the Church of Christ, remains ahcays the Church of Christ, and the fact that the early Cnristians, as far back as the days of Polycarp, the disciple of St. John, were in communion with and dependent from the See of Peter, is proof positive that the Catholic Church of the present, in communion with the See of Peter, is the true Church, and carries with it the promises of Christ. Abuses may exist, but they exist despite her teaching, not as a result of it, as anyone can ascertain by examining her dogmatic and moral codes.
—We should not be surprised if the poet-editor of The Pilot felt like annihilating space and throwing one of his leather-covered spondees at us last week, for calling him a “ darling.” We didn t call him anything of the kind; the types said we did. but the particular type that did the mischief will seldom be found in anything good. Spell heaven as you like, you can’t get that particular imp of a type into it; on the other hand it is a favorite of that dirty fellow, Jupiter Apollo, and has a great affinity for the hot place, and the father of lies. The nearest it can ever get to heaven is limbo, and we hope it will stay there. The turning of “daring ” into “ darling ' was an interpolation on the parttof this mischievous little letter for which we are not at all thankful.
296	THE NOTRE DAME SHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, January 29. 1881,
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fourteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence iu class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, 81.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, .
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If ■> Bnbecrlber falls to receive tbe Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending ns notice Immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies In excess of the subscription list are printed.
—We are happy to state that the management of the Vocal Music Classes has passed into the hands of Prof. Bauer, who will no doubt conduct them to the satisfaction of all concerned. We are also inclined to congratulate those of either the Junior or Senior department who have connected themselves with these classes, for in so doing they have shown that they fully appreciate the kindness of President Corby, who has conferred upon them this favor without entailing any extra expense for the benefits to be received in following a course of vocal music. Nearly two-thirds of the students are now in regular attendance at these exercises, and as this number is constantly on the increase, we are sure that ere long all will have shown that they appreciate the utility of vocal culture by joining the class. We have heretofore had occasion to recount a few of the many good results consequent upon attention to vocalization, so that a further reference to them now is unnecessary. We are confident that all feel the necessity of such a course, and will avail themselves of the opportunity now given them for proficiency in this branch. Since the “ big fire ” of April 23d, this characteristic feature of the University was, unavoidably, more or less neglected, not indeed for want of competent professors of the art, but rather on account of the amount of time and labor required in shaping and perfecting matters of greater importance. Singing by the members of the Vocal Music Classes has ever been a pleasing feature in most of our public entertainments of other years, one which we trust shall be revived at every entertainment during the coming session. We may be charmed with the music produced by the Band, Orchestra, or other musical combinations, but these, however worthy of applause and admiration, are but poor imitations of the music of human voices blended
in perfect harmony. We shall be greatly disappointed if we do not listen to excellent singing by the members of these classes at the dramatic Entertainment to be given by the Thespians on Washington’s Birthday.
v-Death seems bent on carrying away a large number of the many friends of Notre Dame this year. It is but a few days ago that we chronicled the demise of one of her most promising young graduates, M. H. Bannon, of Waukesha, Wis., and, later, that of Col. Anderson, of Circleville, Ohio. This week it is our unpleasant duty to report the death of an old, staunch, and respected friend of the University, Mr. P. O’Reilly, Reading, Penn., father of John F., Francis P., Anthony J., and James A. O’Reilly, all of whom attended the University a few years ago, the latter of whom,'J. A. O’Reilly, received the degrees of B. S. and LL. B., in ’65, and is now a prominent attorney in Reading. The others, John F., Francis P., and Anthony J., are commercial graduates of the University,—all are young men of respectability and worth in the above mentioned city. From the Reading Daily News we learn that Mr. O’Reilly was born in County Meath, Ireland, March 14,1810, and was the eldest of twelve brothers. In 1822 he arrived in this country, and from that time until 1834 his business necessitated his visiting nearly every State in the Union. He gave his undivided attention to railroad contracts until I860, when he retired from business and engaged from time to time in real estate speculation, in which he was peculiarly fortunate. The News informs us that he was engaged in the construction of the Union and Lehigh Canals, Reading Railroad, Dauphine and Susquehanna Railroad, and the Lebanon Valley R. R. He also built the Berks County Alms-house Hospital and the Reading Cotton Factory; from all of which we can readily perceive that Mr. O’Reilly was a wealthy and influential citizen. In concluding its lengthy obituary notice, the Reading News says: “Mr. O’Reilly was the architect of his own fortune, and he learned the lessons of life in the stern school of experience. Within the sacred precincts of the home-circle none may venture, but it can be said of -Mr. O’Reilly that he was a pure-hearted man, an eminently useful and good citizen, and has left behind him the proud heritage of an honorable name.” Mr. O’Reilly was a fervent Catholic, and had passed the ordinary limit of life allotted by the psalmist, dying at the ripe old age of 72. President Corby desires us to extend his sympathy and that of the Faculty to the bereaved relatives of the deceased.
—As staled in our last issue, we will say a few words in reference to that important college exercise, which began last Thursday, is now progressing, and which will be terminated next Tuesday—the Semi-Annual Examination. The object of this exercise, as we are all aware, is to test tbe progress we have made in class during the past five months with a view to promotion at the commencement of the second session, if we pass through the test successfully. All of us will not be promoted; all of us would not wish to be if we could; but we are all desirous of passing a brilliant and successful examination. This we shall cer-tamly do, if we have employed our time well during the past session. We are all anxious to pass through this test successfully, not only on-account of the personal satisfac-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
299
Ackerman, and lady for the pleasure afforded the members on Sunday afternoon.
Personal.
—Please send us a few personals.
—A. Martineau, ’74, is in the employ of Holt, Batcom & Co, Oconto, Wisconsin.
—Mr. Marcus Kavanagh, of Desmoines, la., was here during the past week visiting his brother, Mr. T. Kavanagh, of the Senior department.
—Rev. Father Oechtering, the gentlemanly and zealous pastor of Mishawaka, called at our sanctum during the past week. We are sorry that we had not the pleasure of seeing him.
—Prof. Stace has returned from the far West. His tour through Missouri, Kansas, and other Western States, has improved his appearance (always fine) a hundredfold, we are informed.
—W. J. Clarke, A. B., ’76. was married in Columbus, Ohio, on the 12th inst. He, in company with his accomplished young bride, called at the University on the 13th inst. We wish the young couple every happiness and success.
—A member of the Faculty had the pleasure of meeting N. J. Mooney, M. A., *77, in Chicago, during the holidays. “Nate” is about to start for Europe shortly, where he intends to enter the American College at Rome. He promised to pay his Alma Mater a visit before his departure.
—We had the pleasure of a visit from Rev. Ernest Van Dyke, the erudite and genial pastor of St. Aloysius’ Church, Detroit, Mich., on Tuesday afternoon. He arrived here on Monday evening, and was the guest of Rev. D. E. Hudson, C. S. C. Father Van Dyke has one of the finest parishes in the City of the Straits, where we have spent many a pleasant hour in the reverend gentleman’s company. He left for Chicago Wednesday morning.
"^-During a recent visit in St. Louis, one of the precalled on W. Fletcher, ’73, and P. Fletcher, '80.. He found them both hale and hearty, and doing a thriving business at No. 212 Commercial Street. Willie has settled permanently in business, and is working up a splendid trade by his genial and affable ways, so characteristic of him whilst here at college, but Patrick intends to return at no distant day, and finish his chosen course.
—Rev. Father Kelly, of the Sacred Heart College, received from a few of his many friends here a handsome and costly set of breviaries as a New-Year gift.—Watertown Gazette.
Father Kelly makes for himself a host of friends where-ever he goes. While at Notre Dame, he endeared himself to all with whom he came in contact. His many friends here and elsewhere will, no doubt, be happy to learn that he is as highly esteemed by the “ Badgers ” as he was by the “ Hoosiers.” The College of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, of which he is the honored and worthy President, never was so prosperous as at present.
Local Items.
—“Come off! ”
—Examination!
—Locals are scarce.
—“ South America.”
—“ Boy, let be the hat.”
—Everything is all 0. K.
—“ Attention! Present Arms! ”
—How are those “ steam-pipes?”
—“Say, old fellow, did you pass?” —Vocal Music Classes twice a week.
—“ Did you answer every question ? ”
—The “ Marshal ” is a lieutenant now.
—Mercury at zero "Wednesday morning.
—Did you see those new-fangled cravats?
—Another heavy snow-storm last Saturday.
—Nothing talked of save the Examinations.
—Several new arrivals during the past week.
—The Juniors have discovered Charley Ross.
—Drop a tear for the poor Commercial’s sake!
—When are we to have a lecture in Phelan Hall ?
—“Old gray mare” is all the go with the Seniors.
—“Rover” lives in the steam-house at Mt. St. Vincent.
—B. Augustus can suit the most fastidious. Give him a call.
—“Jim ” is the best checker-player in the Prep, department.
—“ Boouey ” glides around the recreation ballon roller skates.
—Observe the “ Corporal’s ” military step since the guns -arrived.
—The “New Arts” will be produced during the coming week.
—The average of each student will be published in our next issue.	’
—The Cadets drill twice a day in the lower hall of the University. ■
—Masters Grever and Fleming are the censors for “ The New Arts.”
—There has been no skating since the holidays. Too much snow.
—The Juniors are no longer formidable; they have lost their Cannon.
—The time for Vespers on Sunday has been changed to 2 o’clock p. m.
—“ Totum ” is the favorite game with the Preps. It is very interesting.
—Captain Cocke’s name was misspelt in our last; it’s all right this time.	’
—“Aw! now, Tommy, gimme some and 1’11 not forget you next week.” ’
—“ Sancho ” and “ Nep ” are getting over the “ howls ”
—they yell now.	'
—There has been some good reading in the Juniors’ refectory of late.	.
—Rev. N. Stoffel was the celebrant of the 10-o’clock
Mass last Sunday.
—The latest authority (?) says that George Washington discovered America.	”
—The steam-fitters have completed their work Jin the new College Chapel.
—The usual recreations will be a half hour longer during the examinations.
—Rev. Father O’Keeffe was in Chicago, on business, during the past week.
—And now the Juniors’ Cannon has gone off. Nobody wounded. We’re safe.
—The guns for the Notre Dame Cadets have arrived and are now in the Armory. '
—Our "Engraver” has turned up in a new role. This time it is that of a kleptomaniac.
—The Scholastic returns thanks to the L. S. & M. S.
R. R. for its favor of the 25th inst.
—The St. Cecilians have had several lively debates during the past week. Keep it up, boys.
—Who wishes to wager a box of cigars that Mother Jordan’s predictions will be verified?
—“ I never drink, thank you,” said a certain Prep., on being asked to take a dose of castor-oil.
—The Preps, are indebted to Bro. Lawrence for many new and interesting in-door amusements.
—“Charley Ross” has turned up at this University. He can be found in the Prep, department
300	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The snow-plow was again brought into requisition last Monday morning. It did good service.
—We have been informed that the Philopatrians have lost one of their best and most respected members.
—Ba careful not to sit on a wet chair. People, you know, are apt to form hasty and unwarrantable conclusions.
—Rehearsals of the play, “The New Arts,” have commenced ; they are under the supervision of Prof. Lyons.
—Bro. Thomas says that business is dull these days. Examination, you know, stifles the voice of the inner-man.
—We would again request the secretaries of the different societies to be more punctual in handing in their reports.
—The press speaks in flattering terms of Prof. Lyons’ Scholastic Annual. Every student should procure a copy.
—Stonewall Jackson forgot us this week. What’s the matter, Jack? Wake up, and forward some more locals.
—The “Marshal” is getting dangerous. He has been taking boxing lessons of late. See “Duzin” for particu-' lars.
—Manning’s ferret still continues its deadly work among the frisky rabbits, so numerous around Notre Dame.
—Both the Senior and Junior, Departments have organized military companies under the leadership of Capt. Cocke.
—The Class of Calisthenics, Prep, department, is in a flourishing condition under the management of Prof. Edwards.
—Wonderful what hidden vocal powers are brought to the surface under the directorship of the “ Old Reliable” ! Eh, Mose?
—Who suggested the idea of intimidating the Examination Boards by a military demonstration in the rotunda? Eh, “Plato?”
—It is amusing to notice how many boys imagine themselves unwell about the time of the Semi-Annual Examination.
—Masters Echlin, Droste, Tourtillotte, T. McGrath, and' D. Taylor are among the best handballists in the Minim department.
—The Seniors, dissatisfied with a democratic form of government, have re-established a monarchy and recalled their Noble.
—Rev. Father Walsh has the thanks of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association for favors granted on Sunday afternoon.
—When anyone asks you to lend him your Scholastic, give him five cents and request him to buy one. He’ll not trouble you again.
—There are two certain Preps, who do not wish to hear the word “ steam-pipes ” uttered in their presence. Steampipes are hot occasionally.
—“Well I know it, Prof., but cannot explain myself.” “Console yourself, young man! you’re not the only inexplicable being in the world.”
—Bro. Edward received a huge iron safe, Wednesday. The frame work of his office door had to be removed before it could be placed inside.
—The Armory has been fitted up in grand style, and a hundred Sharpe’s latest improved breech-loading rifles give it a formidable appeaeance.
—The ferret took “French leave” one day last week. He was recaptured, however, and now a certain Junior repents of having used any “ cuss ” words.
—It is the easiest thing in the world to discover all the defects in a man when we do not like him. Some of our critics would do well to bear this in mind.
—“Pete” and “J. Willie” were seen in a tragic attitude one day last week. Their upper lips feel the loss of that “ fuzz ” very much during this cold snap.
—At the regular Monthly Theological Conference, held at the Presbytery last Wednesday morning, excellent papers were read by Rev. Fathers Fitte and Stoffel.
—The Arion Quartette of Mt. St. Vincent had its regular
rehearsal last Wednesday morning. They play—well,	g
some say there’s music in it. It’s inaudible, however.	I
—We are happy to welcome our old friend, Mr. G. Nes-	||
ter, back to Notre Dame once more. George brought his	I
little brother and placed him in the Minim department.	|
—We question the right to the title of gentlemen of those having the books of which we made mention in last week’s Scholastic, and which they still furtively retain. -
—The Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association spent Sunday afternoon very pleasantly at Prof. Ackerman’s residence. For full particulars, read our editorial columns.
—We have been informed that Prof. Edwards will pre-	'
sent a gold medal to that member of the Dancing Class who will excel in politeness during the coming session c
—Prof. Paul desires us to state that he has declined the proffered services of two base drummers for the violin, four pianists for the clarionet, and two singers for the French horn.
—Bro. Eugene has an excellent and well-selected stock of boots and shoes. Students desiring anything in this line should not fail to give him a call. He can loot any man from here to Chicago.
—“Oh that I could shake off this mortal coil! ” dramatically exclaimed the “ Corporal ” when, while travelling in South America last summer, he found himself in the embrace of a huge boa-constrictor.
—Our friend John says that it never cost him anything to attend the theatres at home. He used to cut white paper into small pieces, which he, perched above, dropped on the stage in snow-stcrm scenes. Next! '
—Manning’s little “Timmy” is just beginning “ to get his work in.” He caught about twenty rabbits during the past two weeks. Wonder what Manning did with them ? Wonder if he’s good at taking a hint, etc.?
—Please do not place Scholastics, or other mail matter, , in that box near Father Maher’s office labelled “ Scholastic.” . ’ It was placed there to accommodate those wishing to send us locals, personals or other literary matter.	.
—The three first days of the examination have reduced our gallant “Corporal” to a mere skeleton. Nothing daunted, he affirms—yea, swears—that he’ll pass a good ex-	-
amination, or annihilate the first oyster-stew set before him.
—He tilted his chair, and thought by sliding gently backwards, he would accomplish a very funny feat; but the bump raised on the back of his head shows that stargazing in the daytime is not as pleasant as he anticipated. For full particulars, ask M---.
—Brother Paul is an excellent handballist, and has been successful in awakening interest in the game since his arrival in the Senior department. Challenge the Juniors; they affirm that they possess a team strong enough	'
to “scoop” anything in that line at the University.
—Our friend John is a great lover of church music, at least it would so appear from his frequent twistings and contortions of neck and body in order to get a glimpse of the organist and the people behind him in church. It is so polite, and people like to be stared at, you know!
—At the 7th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association, held Jan. 22d., Masters Snee, Metz and Taylor declaimed. Songs were sung by Masters Farrelly, Echlin, O’Connor and Hanavin. A vote of thanks was extended to Vice-President Walsh and Prof. Ackerman for favors received.
—One of the grandest organs at Notre Dame, the large one in the Church excepted, is that owned by Rev. Father L’Etourneau. It was manufactured by Clough & Warren, . of Detroit, and cost §800. We are informed that the Rev. gentleman, intends donating it to the students of the University for chapel service.
—Our old friend, J. R. Lambin, of Chicago, desires us to say that the item which appeared in our December issue . concerning him, is wholly without foundation. “ Jack ” has no idea of forming a matrimonial alliance with anybody. Several, on hearing the above, exclaimed: “0 Jack, thou prevaricator! ”
—The mails have been very irregular between this
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	301
place and South Bend for the past two weeks, causing no little annoyance and trouble to a multitude of individuals hereabouts. They have been transferring the South Bend post-office effects to new and more commodious quarters and this, perhaps, may have been the cause of the disor-! der.
—The “ Corporal ” says that it is impossible for a man I ,	to walk in a straight line from one given point to another:
•	and the reason he brings forward in proof of this	asser-
-	tion is, (wonderful to tell) “ that the earth is round.”	The
* .	" Corporal ” has more potent reasons than the above urg-
P	ing him to pursuade us that what he says is true.	Can
। :	our readers guess them ?
.	—We have received the Scholastic Annual for the year
1881. It is compiled by J. A. Lyons, of the University of Notre Dame, Ind., and having been of acknowledged excellence in former years, the number for the present year is most excellent, and deserves a place in every Christian household. We return thanks for the copy received.— 0 Jornal de Noticing (Portuguese).
—This sixth number of the Scholastic Annual, compiled by Professor J. A. Lyons, of Notre Dame University, Notre Dame, Ind., is better than any of its predecessors. It required no little taste and judgment to select the best out of the many good things which appear every week in the columns of the Notre Dame Scholastic. Professor Lyons has done his work well. Price of the Annual, 25 cts. per copy.—Catholic Union (Buffalo).
’	—The following is a complete list of the Cadet officers
!	of the Junior department: 1st Lieutenant, Jos. P. O’Neill;
2d Lieutenant, Chas. A. Tinley; 1st Sergeant, Henry L. Rose; 2d Sergeant, William Cleary; 3d Sergeant, Robert E. Fleming; 4th Sergeant, Harry Morse; 5th Sergeant, C. Smith; 6th Sergeant, C. F. Rietz; 1st Corporal, M. Butler ; 2d Corporal, A. Bodine; 3d Corporal, J. Homan; 4th Corporal, G. Rhodius; 5th Corporal, F. Wheatly.
. -	- —Through Senator D. R. Leeper, the Military Company
, at Notre Dame, which has been under the drill of Capt.
.	Cocke for some time, has obtained a stand of arms, with
’	officers’ equippments, etc. The rifles being of the latest
- pattern of breech-loaders. We hope the Captain will bring ’ ~ the Cadets over to the city for a review as soon as the ' weather will permit. The company has been highly spoken of as being under precise training, and now with their new guns they will without a doubt make a fine showing.—South-Bend. Herald
—Saturday last being the patronal festival of the venerable Brother Vincent. C, S. C—an enjoyable time was . had by all residing atcMt St.~Vincent,yhe abode of this venerable Brother, now a~nonogenarian. There were present on the occasion Very Rev. Fathers Granger and Reze, ' Rev. Fathers L’Etourneau, Frere, Condon, Hagerty and Kollop. Bro. Vincent enjoys excellent health, rising at five o’clock every morning, and never missing any of the daily religious exercises. He bids fair to live many years yet. That such may be his hapyy lot is the wish of hosts of friends.
—Notre Dame University has received 100 Sharpe’s breech-loaders of the latest regulation pattern for the use of the students’ militarjr company, which is drilled by Capt. Cocke. He is a splendid drill-master, and after the pleasant weather comes our citizens may expect a visit occasionally from the Cadets, and have the pleasure of । seeing them go through their military evolutions.—South-I Bend Tribune. Yes, perhaps we will call on the citizens -	) of the “ city of factories ” before the close of the coming
(session, and show them the proficiency we have made in military tactics under our efficient and gentlemanly drillmaster, Capt. Cocke.	‘
—The Scholastic Annual for 1881 surpasses all its predecessors (five in number) in general excellence. Prof. J. A. Lyons, of Notre Dame University, has shown the best judgment in compiling the book, and has shown us what we thought could not be done—an improvement over the first Annual issued by him in the centennial year. As most of the selections are entire articles from the Notre Dame Scholastic, or excerpts therefrom, the Annual will give the general reader who does not see the College paper some idea of the character of the literature the University
produces. They will, agree with the Tribune that it is of a high standard.—South-Bend Tribune, Jan. 22d.
—The 13 th regular meeting of the SL Stanislaus Philo-patrian Society was held January 24th. Master D. Smith presented himself for membership and was unanimously elected. The office of 2d Vice-President being vacant, Master A. Browne was unanimously elected to fill it. Master G. Woodson was elected Corresponding Secretary; Master Samuel Livingston was chosen Marshal; Master G. Schaefer, 3d Property Overseer; Master J. Bennett, Prompter. Declamations were then delivered by Masters F. Wheatley, A. Schiml, A. Browne, G. Woodson, J. Flynn, E. Cullinene, G. O’Kane, J. Bennett, H. Dunn, E. Smith, G. Haslam, J. Whelan, H. Devitt and F. Prenatt. Master L. Gibert appeared to advantage in two selections from French authors. Prof. Paul played Mendelssohn-Barth oldy’s Grand March on the organ. Mr. Eliot Ryder closed the exercises of the evening with several choice poetical selections of his own composition.
—We are under obligations to the publisher for a copy of the Scholastic Annual, issued at the University of Notre Dame. We had occasion to speak of its excellent predecessor, the Annual for 1880, in terms of praise by no means undeserved, and this number is even an improvement on that. We have examined its various articles with gratified interest, and none has given us more pleasure than its critical and exhaustive treatise on “ A Course of Reading.” The young men of Notre Dame are more fortunate than they are aware of, if the writers for the Annual give us correct samples of the erudition and cultivation of their instructors and of the literary atmosphere in which they move. The Annual is sold for 25 cents, and should be in every Catholic family, while it would repay any Protestant to purchase it, if for no other reason, to convince himself that “good can come out of Nazareth.”—Ypsilanti Sentinel.
—The 17th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association was held January 25lh. A well-written essay on “The Progress of the Nineteenth Century” was read by J. Homan. “ Modern Poetry ” was well given by E. Orrick. “ The Fate of Arnold ” was well depicted by C. Tinley. A debate, “Resolved, That a Classical Education is More Beneficial than a Commercial,” then took place. The principal disputants were Messrs. E. Orrick and J. Homan. E. Orrick made the more powerful speech. T. D. Healy presented himself for membership and was unanimously elected. Public readers for this week are: A. Bodine, J. Burns, J. Homan, F. Quinn, R.' Fleming, C. Brinkman. A well-written criticism on the exercises of the 16th meeting was read by R. Fleming. Mr. Eliot Ryder, late of New York, was loudly called on for a speech, which he delivered in his own happy style, after which he closed the exercises by reciting two of his own poems. The members were much pleased with these poems and desire to see and hear Mr. Ryder very often at their meetings.
—Books recently added to the Lemonnier Library: A complete set of the Edinburg Beriew, from its commencement in 1802 down to Dec. 1879, elegantly bound in half-calf, with gilt backs, 147 vols; Index to same from 1802 to 1859, 4 vols.; Grune’s (Longer) History of the English People, 4 vols.; Endymion, by Rt. Hon. Benjamin Disraeli, Earl of Beaconsfield; The Faith of Our Fathers, byAbp. Gibbons; Faith of Our Forefathers, by Rev. Edward J. Stearns, D. D.; True Faith of Our Forefathers, by The Professor of Philosophy at Woodstock; Daniel Deronda, George Eliot; Mill on the Floss, George Eliot; Adam Bede, George Eliot; The Amulet, Sir Walter Scott; Wonderful Escapes. Revised from The French of F. Bernard, by Richard Whiting; A History of the Catholic Church in the Diocese of Pittsburg and Alleghany from its Establishment to the Present Time, by Rev. A. A. Lambing; The Oddities of Humanity, Characters Taken from Different Authors, L’Abb6 Orse, Translated by Christian Farville; Butler’s Historical Memoirs of the English, Irish and Scottish Catholics since the Reformation, 4 vols.; Sister Dora, A Biography, by Margaret Lonsdale; A Dictionary of Quotations in Most Frequent Use, taken from the Greek, Latin, French, Spanish and Italian, Translated into English, with Illustrations Historical and Idiomatic.
302-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Boll of Honor.
Three Great Cities of the West
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have, by their exemplary conduct, given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT. .
R. C. Adams, W. H. Arnold, J. F. Brown. W. J. Brown, C. A. Brehmer, F. J. Baker, F. M. Bell, T. P. Byrne, G. E. Clarke, T. F. Clarke, J. J. Casey, B. A. Casey, L. F. Callagari, ’ L. E. Clements, F.T. Dever, J. D. Delaney, H. B. Dulaney, B. Eaton, J. M. Falvey, M. L. Falvey, W. P. Fishburn, F. J. Garrity, G. L. Hagan, M. Healey, W. S. Huddleston, W. E. Hoffman, D. A Harrington, W. Johnson, W. Kelly, A. Korty, T. Kavanaugh, F. E. Kuhn, J. C. Larkin, R. Le Bourgeois, W. B. Mc-Gorrisk, W. J. McCarthy, A McNamara, L. Mathers, J. A Me-Intvre, J. R. Marlett, J. J. McErlain, J. J. Malone, M. J. TMcEniry. A. T. Moran, J. C. Newman, G. Nester, E. A. Otis, J. N. Osber. A. Pimyotahmah, E. Piper, L. M. Proctor, D. R. Phelps, J. O'Reillv, F. J. Rettig, J. I. Redmond, J. Solon, F. C. Smith, J. S. Smith,, H. A Sfeis. P. D. Stretch, G. Sugg, B. F. Smith, L. AL Stitzel, W. Schofield, R. J. Seeburger. A. Thornton, C. H. Thiele, E. G. Taggart. S. P. Terry, C. Van Dusen, A. Weisheart. J. F. Weisheart, W. R. Young, A. Zahm, J. B. Zettler, B. H, Pollock, W. G. Jones.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. W Avers, J. H. Burns, A. A. Browne. F. A. Boone, J. M. Boose, C. J. Brinkman, AL G. Butler, Alfred Bodine, W. H. Barron, G. C. Castanedo, A. M. Coghlin, W. L. Coghlin, W. J. Cavanaugh, W. S. Clearv, H. P. Dunn, A. C. Dick, J. W. Devitt, A. J. Dennis, N H. Ewing, T. F. Flynn, J. AL Flynn, J. M. Farrell. J. H. Fendrick, R. E. Fleming, Ed Fischel, F. L Florman, J. J. Gordon. E. F.Gall, A. A. Gall, J. W. Guthrie, F. H. Grever, W. W. Gray, P. G. Hoffman, A. J. Hintze, F. J. Hurley, J. T. Homan, G. J. Haslam, T. D. Healey, F. R. Johnson, A. T. Jackson, P. A Joyce, F. A. Krone, J. M. Kelly, F. A Kleine, Sam Livingston, A. Afendel, J. T. Alaher, W. P. Mahon, Frank AlcPhillips, J. L. Morgan, J. F. Martin, C. J. AfcDermott, C. AI. Alurdock, S. T. Murdock. A. S. Manning, H. W. Morse, AL A. AIcNulty, N. J. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, G. F. O’Kane, J. P. O’Neill, L. L. O’Donnell, C. F. Perry, D. G. Paul, G. J. Rhodius, H. L. Rose, C. F. Rose, C. F. Rietz, Jos. Ruppe, H. G. Sells, W. E. Smith, D. C. Smith, C. Schneider, Geo. Schaefer, J. W. Start, J. AL Scanlan, G. A Truschel, C. A. Tinley, F. J. Woeber, F. W. Wheatley, Thos. Williams.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
C. C. Echlin, D. G. Taylor, C. E. Droste, G. E. Tourtillotte, R. Costello, A. G. Molander, J. A Kelly, F. AI. Moroney, W. Taylor. W. T. Berthelet, T. AIcGrath, L. J. Young, C. Young, J. A Frain, W. H. Hanavin, J. Ruppe, F. B. Farrelly, W. J. Miller, J. E. Chaves, H. J. Ackerman, C. Metz, A. B. Bender, W. Rea, D. L. McCawley, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, E. B. Bagard, J. W. Kent, J. L. Rose, J. Nester.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
L. Clements, F. Dever, J. Delaney, T. Kavanaugh, J. McNamara, H. O’Donnell, A M. Coghlin, P. Joyce, J. Martin C. Rietz, J. AL Scanlan, G. Silverman, J. Falvey, W. Fishburn’ - G. L. Hagan, W. E. Hoffman, W. Johnson, F. E. Kuhn, W. j’. Kelly, J. A McIntyre, J. C. Newman, W. B. Ratterman, H. Steis, R. J. Seeburger, C. Thiele, A Thornton, W. R. Youn«-D. Phelps, T. Flynn, J. Guthrie, H. Hake, J. W. Start, E. Fischel, E. Prenatt.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.] COMMERCIAL COURSE. -
Reading and Orthography—E. Fischel, A Bodine, A. Sehiml A Browne; Grammar—J. Falvey, W. Young, C. Thiele P Joyce, F. Kuhn; Geography and History—F. Kleine, J. Morgan.’ W. Kelly, H. O’Donnell, J. Falvey; Arithmetic-G. L. Hagan G. Silverman; Book-Keeping---; Penmanship—F. Garrity, R. E. O’Connor, F. H. Kengel, E. Fischel, F. Wheatley, A Browne, H^Morae.
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R.
The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Cars, Smoking Cara, Palace RecliningChair Cars and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY,
CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and
ST. LOUIS TO KANSAS CITY.
A’o extra charge for etale in thejlnat declining Chair Palace Care in the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of any Class between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL
POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
Tile Stiort Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Nebraska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the Worth and South, and to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Minins districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
For Tickets and information apply at any coupon Ticket Office In the United States and Canada,"or to
' James Charlton,	J. C. McMullin,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent,	Geu’l Manager,
210 Dearborn st, near cor. of Adams, Chicago,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
“THE GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE”
Calls your attention to tlxe fhUo-whig REASONS "WHY—if about to make a Journey to tlie G-REA.T ‘WEST—you should Travel over it:
As nearly absolute safety as is possible to be attained. Sure connections in Union Depots, at all important points. Nd change of cars between Chicago, Kansas City, Leavenworth. Atchison or council Bluffs. Quick journeys, because carried on Fast Express Trains. Day cars that are uot only artistically decorated, but furnished with seats that admit of ease and comfort. Sleeping cars that permit quiet rest in home-like beds. Dining cars that are used only for eating purposes. and in which the best of meals are served for the reasonable sum of seventy-five cents each. A journey that furnishes the finest views of the fertile farmsand pretty cities of Illinois. Iowa and Missouri, and is afterwards remembered as one of the pleasant incidents of life. You arrive at destination rested, not weary; clean, not dirty; calm, not angry. In brief, you get the maximum of comfort at a minimum of cost.
That the unremitting care of the Chicago, Kock Island & Pacific Railway for the comfort of its patrons is appreciated, is attested by its constantly increasing business, and the fact that it is the favorite route with delegates and visitors to the great assemblages, political, religious, educational and benevolent, that assemble from time to time in the great citiesof the United States, as well as tourists who seek the pleasantest lines of travel, while en route to behold the wonderful scenes of Colorado, the Yellowstone, and Yosemite. To accommodate those who desire to visit Colorado for health, pleasureor business, in the most auspicious time of the year, the Summer season and months of September and October* the Company every year puts on sale. May 1st, at all coupon ticket offices in the United States and Canadas, round trip tickets to Denver. Colorado Springs and Pueblo, at reduced rates, good returning, until October31st. Also to San Francisco, for parties of ten or more, good fbr ninety days, at great reduction from regular fares.
REMEMBER, this is the most direct route for all points WEST and SOUTHWEST. For further Information, time tables, maps or folders, call upon or address
VL. K. CABLE,	.	U. ST. JOEOT,
Vice Prea’t and Gen'l Manager, Chicago.	Gen'l Ticket and Pass’r Agent.
Weeklv Newspapers.
TBEE CATHOLIC COXaTJMBIAJN’, published weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame's students and friends solicited. Terms, ?2 per annum.
D. A. Clabke, of 70.
rpjETE AVE AT A TtT A, a Catholic journal devoted to the JL Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.50.
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
J ZE WELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
Michigan Central Railway
Time ’11?nLie—Nov. IB, 1879,
	♦MaH	♦Day Express.		♦Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -“ Mich. City-“ Niles	 “ Kalamazoo-" Jackson - - - Ar. Detroit - - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a. m 11 13 “ 12 15 p. m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “		4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 05 “ 9 50 “	515 p.m. 740 “ 9 00 “ 10 28 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	910 pm 11 30 “ 12 48 am 2 28 “ 5 00 “ 8 00 “
	♦Mall	♦Day Express.		♦Jackson Express.	+ Pacific Express	tEven’g Express.
Lv. Detroit - - -“ Jackson - - -“ Kalamazoo--“ Niles - - - -11 Mich. City - - Ar. Chicago - - -	7 00 a. m 10 20 ” 1 15 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 50 “	9 35 a. m 12 15 p.m 2 37 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		5 55 p.m 4 50 a. m 6 50 “ 8 08 “ 10 35 “	9 50 p.m. 12 45 a.m. 243 “ 415 “ 5 30 “ 8 00 “	810 p.m 115 “ 1 38 a.m 8 30 “ 4 55 “ 7 30 “
Wiles and South Bend Division.						
♦GOING NOBTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p.m “ N. Dame-8 52 “ 638 “ Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “			Lv. Ar.	♦GOING SOUTH. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m. N. Dame—740 “	4 48 “ So. Bend—745 “	4 55 “		
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. tSaturday and Sunday excepted. Henby C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyabd, G. P. & T. A., Chicago, Hl.	Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich. G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend. T”*						
SOW READY.
The Scholastic Annual
FOR 1881.
CONTENTS.
Astrological Predictions—Astronomical Calculations— Ask Me Not Why (Poetry), S.—Abstinence Days—A Beautiful Thought, Bishop Ryan—A Course of Reading, T. E. Howard, A. M.—Collegiate Studies, W.—Calendars • —Chaisons Physiologiques (Poetry), A. J. S.—Eclipses— Fasting Days—Father Badin, T. E. Shaw—Holy Days of Obligation—Introductory—In Statu Quo, H.—The Lady Anatomist (Poetry), A.' j. S.—Movable Feasts—The Music of the Church, Egg Rock—Memorial Sonnets. E. R. Michael Angelo (Poetry), Eliot Ryder—O’Connell (Poetry), M. F. Egan—Office of the Blessed Sacrament, J. O. C. —Rates of Postage—A Tale of the Middle Ages, H. H. —The Types of God, Edward Hyde—The Way of Success, Hon. E. F. Dunne LL. D.—Winged Words.
Price, 25 cents, post free.
Orders should be sent to
J. A. LYONS.
Notre Dame, Ind.
304
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Lemonnier Library;
Established at Notre Dame in 1812 for the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &c., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be Gratefully received and aekowledged by the librarian. Please address
,T. IT. KDWAKDS.
Notbe Daub, Indiana.
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems,
BY MAUBICE IT. JSGA-N.
I Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame !	University.
JPx’icc, $1, postpaid.
i Address
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON.
Philadelphia, Pa.

LAKE SHORE AND MICHIGAN S0U1HERN RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 14,188J, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST. _
2.25 a. m, Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line. Arrives at Toledo 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland 2.30 p.m. Buffalo, 8 5O.p. m. ~	.
11-05 a. m, Mail over Main Line. Arrives at Toledo, 5.25 p. in.; Cleveland 10.10 p. in.; Buffalo, 4 a. m.
9.12 p. in., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 2.40 a. in.; Cleveland, 7.05 a. m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p. m.
1216p. m„ Special New Yolk Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo 5.40 p. m., Cleveland, 10.10 p._ni.; Buffdo, 4 a. in.
6.21 p. m., Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo 10.35 p. in.; Cleveland, 1.45 a. in.; Buffalo, 725 a. m.
GOING WEST.
2.43 a m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3*35 a. m., Chicago 6. a. m.
5 05 a., in., Pacific Express. "Arrives at Laporte 5 50 a. m., Chicago 8.20 a. m.
O.Q3 a. m.. Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9.05 a. m.; Chesterton, 9.47 a. in.; Chicago, 11.30 a. in.
1.16 p. m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.12. p. m.; Chesterton, 2.52 p. m.; Chicago, 4.40 p. m
4 50 p. ni., Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5 38; Chesterton, 6.15 p. tn.; Chicago, 8 p. m.
WESTERN DIVISION TIME TABLE.
EASTWARD.	2 MAIL.	4 Special N. Y. Express.	6 Atlantic Ex-• press. •	8 Chicago and St. Louis Express.	20 Limited Express.
Chicago	Leave Grand Crossing	 “ Miller’s	 “ Chesterton	 “ Otis	   “ Laporte	Arrive Laporte	Leave South Bend	 “ Mishawaka	   “ Elkhart	Arrive Toledo	  I..	“ Cleveland	 “ Buffalo	 “ New York	 “ Boston	 “	7 35 a.m. 8 09 “ 9 10 “ 9 32 “ 9 47 “ 10 06 “ 10 08 “ 1105 “ 11 15 “ 11 40 “ 5 25 p.m. 4 50 “ 10 10 a.m.	9 00 a.m. 9 31 “	5 15 p.m. 5-50 “	10 20 p.m. 10 56 “ 12 05 a.m. 12 32 “ 12 52 “	3 30 p.m.
					
					
		11 02 “ 11 20 “ 1122 “ 12 16 p.m.	7 32 “		-
					
			8 20 “ 912 “ 9 20 “ 9 45 ■ “	120 “ 2 25 “ 2 35 “ ■ 3 00 a.m. '	9 50 “. 2 55 p.m. 815 “ 10 30 a.m. 2 40 p.m.	5 38 “ 6 21 “
		12 50 “			6 45 “ 10 50 “ 2 00 a.m. 7 40. “ 10 10 p.m.
		10 35 “ 4 10 a.m. 7 00 p.m.. 9 45 “	7 30 “ 1 25 p.m. 6 45 a.m. 9 20 “		
					
					
W. P. JOHNSON, Gen’l Passenger Agent, Chicago.
J. C RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Genl Ticket Agt., Cleveland. .
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t WestDiviBion, Chicago.
JOHN NEWELL, Gen’l. Manager. CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t,