IJear
PUBLISHED AVEEKLY A.T NOTRE D^ME.
fhwtefl tu the Interest of the >tudettb.
“ LABOR OMNIA VINCIT.”
Vol. II. UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, IND., JANUARY 9, 1869. No. 18
German.
[concluded.]
The private labors of the retired scholar, however, were not interrupted during this gloomy period, although he was left destitute of all public encouragement. The Berlin Academy of Science, founded by Leibnitz, led the way to great discoveries in the mathematical and natural sciences. Literary societies and associations were everywhere formed, and the Germans began to make the purity and elegance of their native tongue an object of attention. Von Haller, Gellert, and others gave energy, elegance and ease to their native language. The old Gallomania, which had been for half a century vigorously opposed by sincere poets, and sturdy critics, had become almost extinct. The German genius had already arrogated a dynasty, and found in Klop-stock an altar and a throne. He was an enthusiast for his country and his religion. He felt like an honest man and he wrote like a man in earnest. By his sacred songs he raised the German language and poetry to a pitch of loftiness, richness and originality, which it had never attained. What was begun by Klopstock was continued, with profounder views and on a grander scale, by the illustrious Lessing. Well does Heine exclaim, that “Lessing was the literary Arminius, who freed the German theatre from every foreign domination.” AU German art was embraced by his vast criticism and his vigorous genius. Like Schiller, he loved to delineate human nature in Its nobler qualities, and sympathize with its graver ends, rather than, like Goethe, to dissect its infirmities; or, like Wieland, to trifle with its interests.
Men like Herder, Goethe, Voss, Schiller gave a new impetus to the literary excitement. Under the combined efforts of Schiller and Goethe, German literature was brought to that classical per-
• fection which has given to it a universal influence ! Since their time the number of authors is simply ; legion, a tiring array of names would I but mention them. Nor is it in literature alone that the Germans have of late made such gigantic strides— other departments of human knowlege and science have also received a vigorous impulse from their inquiring mind. In point of fact there is scarcely a single branch of science in which Germans have not excelled. In music, painting, and sculpture they occupy one of the highest ranks among nations. Not even Italy is ahead of Germany in musical compositions, many of the greatest composers of modern times being Germans, as Handel, Mozart, Beethoven, Hayden, Meyerbeer, Mendelssohn, Weber, Gluck. In the art of painting, the members of the two principal German schools of Munich (Cornelius, Kaulbach), and of Dusseldorf (Schadow, Lessing), rival the best artists of all times. In sculpture, Rauch, Dannecker and Rietschel take rank with Thorwaldsen and Canova. Do not Philology, both comparative and special, the science of Antiquity, the Archaeology of Art and their various branches, owe their present state of relative perfection—nay, some of them their very existence—to the patient assiduity, the candid and truth loving spirit of German inquirers? What historian has of late attempted to write the history of Rome or Greece, who has not reared his edifice on the ground explored by Niebuhr, Mueller, Boekh and others? Where has speculative Philosophy found a fostering home, and, as the “Scientia Scientiarum,” asserted its controlling and harmonizing power over every department of human knowledge? Nay, who can write now on any metaphysical subject without being familiar, and appearing either in harmony or conflict with the systems of men who have carried philosophical inquiry to its last results ? Are not the writings of Goethe, Schiller, Herder, Tieck, and of other Coryphaei of German literature, either in the original or in
138
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
translations, on the shelves of every library? The history of German literature for the last century, the rapidity of its growth, the many illustrious names, which either simultaneously or in rapid succession, have added lasting honors to its pages, present to us a fact in the manifestations of national life that may safely challenge a precedent in history; a fact, however, recognized and openly avowed even by writers of rival nations.
Deservedly then is the German language ranked among the leading studies in nearly all American high-schools and academies. The very public schools in our cities have caught the spirit of the age, and are clamoring for its introduction. The American mind is becoming Germanized. A knowledge of the German language is no longer considered a mere accomplishment but an actual necessity. The education of the classical student is incomplete without it, and for the same reason is it defective in the business man. The cause lies in the requirements of the times. We have in our midst an immense and daily augmenting German population. Take, for example, the city of Chicago, Ill. It contains a population of 300,000; of these, 100,000 are Germans, as the late census will show. Take, again, the state of Wisconsin; its population is now reckoned at 1,200,000; of these probably 500,000 or more are Germans. And so on with other States. The language is consequently extensively spoken among us, and hence its high practical value. An estimate may be formed of the vitality and diffusion of the language in this country, from the fact, that, in the United States, there are printed in the German language more than two hundred newspapers.
The language itself, as it exists at the present day, is distinguished by its richness in words, far exceeding that of any other European language; it is capable of being continually developed from its own substance. As an original language, it has its accents on the radical syllables. Hence the additional accents in combinations can be changed with ease, according to the sense. The prepositions may either be connected closely with the chief word, or separated in the construction, which imparts to the language a great pliability of construction, which is still increased by the number of syllables of inflection and derivation. It is thus particularly fitted for a concise scientific style, in which it is of importance to give a series of ideas, which belong together, in the same period, and in logical order; though by this very quality, the German prose writers are often seduced to swell and prolong their periods to a
tiring and confounding extent. The life, and the richness of words, and the capacity for variations, in the language, have prevented the origin of fixed phrases, in which the same words are exclusively used for the same notions. For this reason the language of conversation is not to be used with so great precision as the French, for instance; but the writer retains in a higher degree the power of using words in such away as to show and impress the full force’ of his ideas, independent of any phrase, or construction, as well as to produce, on the other hand, the finest shades in meaning and strength of words, by varying their place and rank in construction. From these united causes, its fitness for poetical expression, its susceptibility of all kinds of rhythm and verse, and its capacity of entering into the spirit of every foreign language, are easily explained.
The Germans have translations of Shakspea're, of Plato’s Dialogues, of Ariosto and Tasso, of Homer and Virgil, in which the spirit of the original is faithfully rendered in the rhythm and meter of the original. The very plays upon words are preserved, or analogous ones substituted. Foreigners often consider the language harsh. It is true that the aspirated consonants and rough vowels, which prevail in the Geiman mountain districts, do indeed strike the ear harshly; and in general the accumulation of the consonants seems incompatible with a soft and harmonious utterance; but that this is not necessarily the case is shown in the pronunciation of the High German by the higher classes. The long and pure vowels of the language, and their capability of being lengthened and shortened, as time and rhythm require, make it well adapted for music.
The character and importance of the German language, then, are in themselves motives sufficient to induce every true lover of art, progress and enlightenment to investigate this language as far as he can. The opportunity for so doing is within the grasp of every student at Notre Dame. And, indeed, a large number has already taken advantage of the golden chance offered, as ’a cursory glance at the German Department of Notre Dame will show.	.
The total number of names registered in this Department during the first session is one hundred and twenty-six. Of these seventy-eight belong to the Junior Collegiate Department forty-six to the Senior, and two to the llinim Department. These students are divided into nine Classes: four set apart for the Juniors, five for the
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	139
Seniors. The number of German professors is six, readily increased to ten if the case requires. In the first Junior Class the instruction is entirely given in German, not a "word of English being alowed to be spoken. The grammar for this class is “ Meuwsen's (Jursus der Deutschen Sprache." All the members of this Class speak and write the German language with ease and precision.
In the second Junior Class Woodbury’s New Method and Adler’s German Reader are used as text-books. All the members of this Class have studied the language a year or more, and are supposed to be pretty familiar with the theory of it.
In addition to the daily exercises of reading, writing and translating both English and German, they receive occasional instruction in German epistolary correspondence, and are required to put it in practice. From the Professor of this class I understand that during the second session, the instruction is to be given in German as far as practicable.
A visit to the Third Class Junior, completely shook my belief in the difficulty of mastering the German tongue. Here are Juniors, who, though scarcely four months ago initiated into the mysteries of German Grammar, read, write and translate their various exercises with a perfect gusto that bespeaks their great pleasure with their newly formed acquaintance. On the countenance of each is depicted the secret of his success— earnestness.
The Fourth Class I found to be a bright jovial set of Juniors, too young yet to appreciate the importance of this study. Although only a beginning Class, the members feel perfectly at home in their 11foreign element,” and give great promise of success. The text-book in this, as well as in the Third Class, is Ahn’s New Method.
The various Senior Classes correspond nearly to the Junior Classes, using the same text-books and receiving the same instructions; it having been found judicious to separate the two Departments for the better improvement and development of both.
It is of importance here to observe, that, besides the large number of German scholars attending class, there are in the University many students of German descent, and many persons connected with the house who speak the German language, a fact that enhances the opportunities offered at Notre Dame for becoming practically acquainted with the language.
Here then there are one hundred and twenty-six students carefully winding their way through
a mighty maze, all doing well, all eagerly acquiring a practical knowledge, indispensable to their greater success in their social and political after-life. This is but a living illustration of Germany and America shaking hands. And indeed the more closely the different portions of the great Anglo-Saxon family are united in one common bond of political and social sympathy, the more richly the blessings of political and social freedom will be enjoyed by the whole human family; and the study of the works of the great German authors will not fail to cement a union of the German and American nations, which the necessities of commerce, the achievements of science, and the inevitable results .’of emigration have so happily inaugurated, and bid fair to consolidate upon the everlasting rock of destiny.	B.
Scientific Department.
The readers of the Scholastic Year—who are all, we are rejoiced to say, persons of intelligence and culture—will learn, no doubt, with pleasure, that a short article on some scientific subject will appear henceforth in every number of our little Journal. In the selection of subjects, we will constantly endeavor to choose such as may prove interesting and useful to our young subscribers, and, at the same time, as can conveniently be treated in a few lines—say a column, at most, of the paper. All hypothetical disquisitions, doubtful assumptions, or gratuitous affirmations, we will carefully eschew; nothing but what modern science authorizes and accepts, will be recorded. We do not, however, pretend to say that we shall always be able to avoid errors; such an assumption on our part, or on the part of any man, however learned and erudite he may be, would be preposterous, to say the least:.for the very seal or characteristic of humanity is imperfection ; and we are very human. With these prefatory remarks, we will speak to-day of that singular and famous plant which is so highly esteemed by the Chinese, and which has formed in this country, for several years past, an extensive article of exportation; we mean the
Ginseng.
This is the Chinese name of a perennial plant of the genus Aralia, and of several species, the most important of which is the A. quinquefolia, Gray (Panax quinquefolium, of Linnaeus). It is

140	THE SCHOLASTIC. YEAR.
frequently called, in popular language, wild sarsaparilla.
Ite habitat.—This famous plant is, as far as observed, confined to some regions of the north temperate zone, especially to Tartary, Canada, and some of our Northwestern States. If is exclusively found in rich, cool and moist forests ; however, owing to the great consumption made of it by the Chinese, and the difficulty of propagating it by artificial means, it has become, of late, very scarce, both in Asia and in this country.
History.—The Tartars and their neighbors and masters, the Celestials, have known this plant from a very remote period of time, as the records of their sacred books testify. But it was only in 1711 that a French Jesuit, Father Jartoux, a missionary in China and topographer of the Emperor Tchao, first conveyed a full description and a design of it to one of the Superiors of his Order, in France. This interesting document is found in the XXVTIIth Vol. of the “Lettres Edifiantes et Curieuses,” page 84, et passim. .(See also a faithful translation of it in “Jones’ Philosophical Transactions,” Vol. 1, page 314.) Soon afterwards, the same species of plant was found also in Canada, as the same Jesuit Father had rightly conjectured. However, it is but quite recently that the Ginseng was discovered in the forests of Wisconsin and Minnesota.
Description.—Its root (the only valuable part of it) is spindle shaped; and when full-grown, i. e., after three years growth, is about the size of a man’s finger, from five to eight inches in length, and forked. Stem, about a foot and a half high ; leaflets, five in number, palmated; fruit, two or three drupes, deep red; flowers very minute, of a yellowish-white color. It blooms in July.
Classification.—Nat. Syst.: order, Araliacece (closely allied to the Umbelliferoe); genus, Aralia; sub-genus, Ginseng; species, quinquefolia (fiveleaved). Artif. Syst.: class, Polygamia; order, Diacia; genus, Panax; species, quinquefolium. Its dioeciously polygamous flowers may account for its slow and uncertain propagation.
Properties.—This plant is highly valued by the Chinese, who consider it the supreme and universal panacea for all diseases (from its supposed universal qualities. Linnaeus called it Panax, from the Greek pan—all, and akos—cure; a cure-all); but it is not much prized by European and American, physicians; still the invigorating and stimulating. virtues of its root, especially when fresh, could not be well, called in. question, after the positive statements made by Father. Jartoux, who
experienced its beneficial power. However, it may be that the American Ginseng is inferior in medicinal properties to that of Tartary; and this is indeed corroborated by the fact that the former does not command as high a price, by far, as the latter.
Etymology.—The word ginseng, according to Father Jartoux, means, in Chinese, the form of man. “ The Tartars,” he adds, “with more reason, call it orhota, which signifies the chief of plai ts}' It is a thing worthy of remark that the nation of the Iroquois, when the plant was discovered in Canada, in 1718, called it Garento-quem, i. e., resemblance, of a man's thigh, from the fact, no doubt, that its bifurcated root presents thesemblance’of a man’s legs separated. It bears a very striking, analogy to the famous plant mentioned in several places in the Scriptures, (see Gen. xxx, 14,) the mandrake of the ancients, who invariably represented it under the form of a man, and who stupidly attached to it the reputation of being not only endowed with human feelings, but also of possessing the most wonderful properties. But of the mandrake we may speak more at length on some future occasion.
The Ginseng as an article of exportation.—No sooner was that plant first discovered in Canada than the French colonists and the native Indians began, with the greatest diligence, to collect it. They exported large quantities of it to China, and realized very handsome profits from the early shipments. Latterly, especially in the years 1858 ’59 and ’60, several millions of pounds were also shipped to China from the. States of Wisconsin, Minnesota, and Ohio. But the trade soon decreased, partly on account of the scarcity of the plant and partly owing to the depreciation of the American article in the Chinese markets. Originally, it found a ready sale at 25, 30, and even 50 cents per pound, but fell to not more than a shilling or a shilling and a half since 1860.
J. C. C.
The more exalted our stashun, the more conspicuous our virtews, just as a rich satin adds to the brilliancy of. a jewel.
If. yu want to learn. a child tew steal oats in the bundle make him beg out ov you everything you give him. ..
Blessed iz he who kan pocket abuse and feel that is no disgrace to be bit by a dog.
Punishments, tew hit the spot, should be-few butredLot.—Josh Billings.

sr
Y
r
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	141	
[Revised Poems.]	Of the cave of golden treasure.
	Now they stop, just at the opening,	*
IV.—The Robber’s Cave.	And with beating hearts, look inward—	.
	Inward, to the haunted cavern.
		—	Now, my friends, please hold your breathing..
Inscribed to the Minims, bi Fanciuiio.	Just a moment, while you listen —
	Listen to what there they witnessed:
		Two big eyes like balls of fire,
Dear Minims, yon are fond of stories,	Fiery eyes—were staring at them—
Stories wild and full of wonder,	Staring at them from the cavern.
Stories of the dismal forest,	Some, faint hearted, fled in terror;
Of the wild and stormy ocean.	Others trembled—yet they fled not,
Listen, then, and I will tell you	While one, feailess and unshaken,
One so wild, and full of wonder,	Fearless—aimed his trusty firelock,
That vour hair will stand up endways	Then a flash, like lightning, darted—	"
On your heads for very terror;	Darted from the roaring fi-elock,
Then you 11 laugh before I finish.	And a brace of furious bullets	■
Laugh, because you were so silly,	'	Whistled through the dismal cavern,
Fearing where there was no danger.	Seeking the enchanted robber.
In a wild and gloomy forest,	When the smoke had cleared a little—
Where the sunlight never entered,	Cleared a little from the entrance,
People say, a mighty robber,	Once again our fearless hero,
Mighty br his strength and courage,	Wishing to display his courage,
Mighty by his deeds of murder,	Seized a lantern and— descended
Had a cave so wild and dismal	To the cave: when lol before him
That no fire could ever warm it,	Stretched, and bleeding, lay the body—
That no light could burn w ithin it.	Of the ghost? Not quite: I’ll tell you,
Many-years this robber plundered—	Lay the body of a nanny	■
Plundered people in the forest,	Of a wild, but harmless, nanny.	•
And though often sought by justice,	Those who fled like foolish cowards,
Never once was caught No weapon, ‘	Told their neighbors how the spirit—	•
Whether sword, or ball, or arrow	How the spirit of the robber
Ever could succeed to harm him,	■	Issued from the cave in fury—	.
So that people said with terror.	In a wild and raging-fury—	•	'
Said, “He surely is enchanted ”	And destroyed their absent parteners.
But at last his days were numbered,	But the brave ones found the treasure—
Days of robbing, days of murder,	'	Found it, and with joy and gladness
And all men were glad to hear it,—	To their homes returned at evening.
Glad because their lives were safer,	Then the cowards blushed and sorrowed;
Safer than if he were living.	Sorrowed for their foolish'fearing,
Years passed by, and now no* robber	For their loss of all the treasure.
Murdered travelers in the forest;	MORAL.
Yet were all so terror-stricken;	So, my dear young friends, it happens,
That no person dared to enter	When you aim at some great virtue:
That dread cave, though all were certain;.	You percei' e somerfeeble’ barrier;. '
Certain it was lull of treasure.	Feeble, yet it seems a mountain ;	4
But at last some neighbors gathered,	Seems a rugged frightful mountain.
Gathered, saying to each other,	Which you cannot pass in safety.	•
-	“ Let us go and search the cavern,	But be brave and stand like heroes,
Search the.dreadful robber’s cavern,	Stand like men of dauntless courage;
And we‘11 share the mighty treasure I”	■ And you’ll find that, liketbegoblin,
Off they started to the forest,	Like the ghost of the dead robber;
Armed with lanterns, guns and arrows;	Changed into a harm'ess nanny,
And in going talked of goblins—	This great mountain will be leveled;
Talked of goblins and they trembled,	And on close examination
Saying, “ Perhaps the robber’s spirit	Will be-fonud a little ant hill.
May be watching in the cavern—	Then you'll gain the hidden treasure;
Watching to protect his treasure?”	And returning in the evening—
Yet they stopped not in their journey,	In the evening of existence
But advanced with manly courage,	To your heavenly Father’s dwelling,
Onward to the sunless forest,	.	You will live in joy forever,
To the dreaded robber’s cavern,—	Blessed with wealth of which no robber
Where they stop to look around them.	Will be able to despoil you.
All is silent in the forest —	
	
Not a leaf upon the tree tops—	
On the high and matted tree tops—	I don't hanker after bad luck, I had rather run
Trembles, in the gentle breezes, While our heroes, on their tip toes,	~	the! risk ov it than trust too much in the profession
Walk up to the very .entrance	ov men.—Josh Billings. '	.	.
142	THE SC HOL College Bulletin.	ASTIC YEAR. again in Washington Hall on the night above mentioned, with many amusing additions by its talented author.	- For those who are acquainted with Prof. Stage’s ability to make wit and humor harmonize with the serious, it is unnecessary to say that “The Prince of Portage Prairie,” especially as remodeled, is eminently calculated to attain the end which the writer had in view; viz., to amuse. For the benefit of those who are not so well acquainted, I will say that, even had they not received a single “ Christmas Box” or “ New Years Gift” they would have been forced to laugh most heartily for nearly two hours, had they been present at the rendering of this amusing play on New Year’s night, not only would they laugh, but they would also have joined in the hearty cheers that were accorded to the young gentlemen who acquitted themselves so vei-y well on the occasion, and were the means of great pleasure and amusement to all residents of Notre Dame. We will be pardoned, therefore, if we, who were present, say a few words in well merited praise of the young gentlemen who took leading parts on the occasion. Mr. G. F. Guthrie, in the character of “The Prince,” sustained the dignity of his position with characteristic ease. Mr. Guthrie won many laurels in past years at our college exhibitions, and is already well known to most of our readers. Mr. G. M. Atkinson, as “ Duke of Goshen” did very well, and put on the “ high born lord” without the least difficulty. This, I believe, was Mr. Atkinson’s first appearance on the stage. “ The Marquis of South Bend” was ably sustained by Mr. H. P. Morancy, of “ Philomathean” celebrity. Mr. Morancy was remarkable for distinct and dignified utterance whenever he had anything to say. “ Alexander” was very well rendered by Mr. R. L. Akin, a young man of considerable promise, both as an elocutionist and vocalist. His “Kathleen Mavourneen” was very correctly sung, but a little more cultivation would improve the smoothness of his voice. Mr. James Wilson, who personated the “ Barber,” took off the darkey to a dot. The only imperfection was that Mr. Wilson’s naturally fair complexion would, in spite of all efforts, show itself through the “burned cork.” Mr. J. M. Moriarty, as “ Drill Sergeant,” displayed a decided talent for Military Tactics. We hope to see Mr. Moriarty a cadet at West Point some of these days. Mr. W. A. Walker, in the double character of “Dr. Pangios” and “Bugler” gave evidence of great self command. Naturally of a nervous disposi-
Arrival of Students at IV. Dame. January 1st. Elias D. Riddle,	Niagara, Canada West. January 4th. Henry Ulrich,	Chicago, Illinois. January 5th. John M. Gearin,	Champohe, Oregon. Edward W. Shoaff,	Fort Wayne, Indiana. January 8th. Robert V. Echlin,	Chicago, Illinois. John P. Echlin,	“	“ 		m Tables of Honor. .	Senior Department. A. Reilly, J. Eisenmann, J. Harrison, J. Roby, H. Schnelker, S. Corby, L. Schmeider, D. Tighe, L Mader, J. Zahm. Junior Department. ' J. Campbell, J. Coppinger, D. Cooney, C. Morgan, Jas. Ryan, Jas. Dooley, M. Foote, Ed. Bahm, J- Broderick, A. Trentman. New Tear’s Kight, a Many were the schemes and devices got up by the students of Notre Dame, to relieve the monotony of the holidays, or rather to substitute for monotony a variety of innocent amusements. But the great excitement of the time was the “ Burning of Bertrand” which took place on New Year’s night, between seven and nine. But, kind reader, do not, I beg of you, allow your imagination to call up the horrible scene of frantic women and screaming children, whose cries make horrid discord with the roaring and crackling of the “ devouring element.” No, do not work yourself up into a nervous fever by picturing to yourself the dreadful sight; for I am only writing of a very interesting play, entitled “ The Prince of Portage Prarie; or, The Burning of Bertrand” published last year in “The Scholastic,” and presented	
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	143
tion, he appeared perfectly calm and collected while he treated his audience to a host of Latin and Greek speeches. The “Hermit” was well rendered by’Mr. James Cunnea. For a first appearance on the stage Mr. Cunnea acquitted himself very creditably, though he showed very plainly that he was not accustomed to wearing a whisker. Mr. Joseph Garhartstine took the character of the “ Indian Chief,” and proved himself well fitted for such a character. Mr. J. Eisenman represented the “Water Spirit,” and rose so naturally from behind a screen, painted to represent a river, that I actually became a little alarmed. Indeed, he looked so much like a blooming little fairy, that little imagination were needed to transform him, under the circumstances, into a veritable sprite. Mr. T. L. Watson played the “ Butler” with becoming activity. The “ Arkansas Traveller,” personated by Mr. J. H. Murphy, did his part very well, especially at the grand dying scene, when he stabbed himself with an umbrella and rolled kicking among the dead (?). Messrs A. K. Menard and L. B. Logan took the part of the “ Spies” and did it to perfection. In addition to these principal characters there were a number of “Zouaves,” “Indians” and “Attendants,” making the number of characters in all about forty—all of whom entered with a hearty good will into the spirit of the play, and laid the whole of the audience under deep obligations for a very pleasant evening.
We must not close without a well merited compliment to the Band and Orchestra, both of which lent the varied charms of their respective style of music to heighten the hilarity of the occasion. We noticed two very nice pieces by the Band* which, we are informed, were composed expressly for the holidays by the leader, Professor John O’Neill.
When we consider that this delectable entertainment was got up during the Christmas Holidays, a time at which college folks find it very difficult to apply themselves to “anything particular,” we cannot be too thankful to Prof. Stace, under whose direction everything was arranged and completed; and to the young gentlemen who generously sacrificed a considerable portion of their recreation time to add to the enjoyment of their fellow-students and friends. We most heartily wish them all a great deal of happiness during the coming year, in return for the pleasure they afforded us on “ New Year’s” night.
“Fanciullo.”
Notre Dame Zouaves.
Notre Dame, Ind., Jan. 1,1869.
At a meeting of the students, held on this day, in the room of Prof. A. J. Stace, the following resolutions were adopted:
1st. That the assembled body of students do organize themselves into a military company.
2nd. That the company be known as the Notre Dame Zouaves.
3rd. That the approbation of the Rev. President of the University be requested thereto.
The election of officers then took place, but was reconsidered at a subsequent meeting.
January 8.
A meeting of the Notre D ame Zouaves was held to-day in Washington Hall, at 10 o’clock a. m. Twenty-five members expressed their willingness to incur the expense attendant on obtaining the uniform. It was estimated that on the return of those absent for the Christmas holidays, many more would be found willing to do so.
On the afternoon of this day the company, waited on the Rev. President of the University and obtained his approbation of their resolutions, accompanied by expressions of warm encouragement.
January 6.
A meeting of the Notre Dame Zouaves took place to-day in class room No. 13, when the following officers were elected :
Society Officers.
Director—Prof. A J. Stace.
Recording Secretary—James Cunnea.
Corresponding Secretary—J. C. Eisenman.
Treasurer—G. A. Atkinson.
1st Censor—J. M. Moriarty.-
'2nd Censor—J. A. Dickinson.
Company Officers.
Captain—J. M. Moriarty.
First Lieutenant—J. A. Dickinson. .
Second Lieutenant—W. P. McClain.
A nniform for the company was adopted, consisting of a red Banks’ cap, blue Zouave jacket, white shirt, red Zouave breeches and buff leg-' gings.
The regular business meeting of the Society will take place on the first Wednesday of every month, at 9 o’clock p. m., in class room No. 7. The ordinary drill meeting of the company will
144
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
take place at 3 o’clock p. m. on all Wednesdays and Sundays throughout the scholastic year.
The Director then- mentioned that the Rev. President had given the company great hopes of securing a stand of arms from the State of Indiana.
The meeting then adjourned.
Jacob C. Eisenman, Cor. Sec’y.
St. Edward’s Literary Association.
After a recess daring the holidays, the St. Edward’s Literary Association held its 12th literary meeting on Tuesday evening, Jan 5th, with pretty full attendance. The exercises of the evening consisted in the discussion of the question: “Is Spain better suited for a monarchy than fora republic.” It was, indeed, quite’a difficult subject, but was handled in a very masterly manner by Messrs T. O’Maliony and A. W. Arrington on the affirmative and Mesers H. L. Eisenman and J. P. Rogers on the part of the negative. Mr O'Mahouy’s arguments were very forcible, resting them as be did on a firm foundation. He exhibited his usual diligence in their preparation. -
Mr Eisenman follow ed in a very agreeable argumentative Style, and doubtless wou the convictions of many of his hearers to his side of the question. Mr. Arrington succeeded Mr. Eisenman in a very powerful and commendable speech in support of a monarchy.
Mr. Rogers then arose as a volunteer in place of Mr. M. S. Ryan, absent. He spoke with that characteristic ease and fluency of language accompanied with close reasoning both - essential to a good speaker.
For the St. Edward's the year 1S69 has dawned favorably, and shows that the members have risen to renewed energy and are determined to move “ Onward, still onward” during the course of the year.	Reporter.
JFaINT ^^ARY’S JUademv.
Saint Mary’s, Jan. 5th, 1869.
A.rriva.ls.
Jan. 5th.—Miss Gill, Walkerton, Ind; Jan. 6th.
—Miss E. Hill, Lima, Ind.
Honorable Mention.
Graduating Class.—Misses Lizzie and Laura Tong, A. Ewing, K. Cunnea, M. Twoomy.
First Senior.—Misses A. Carmody, A. Cunnea, N. Taber, E. Kirwin, M Morrill, J. Dobson, M. ■ Claffey, E. Ewing, M. Carraher, A. Darcy, M, Alexander, M. Chouteau, L. Lewis, L. McManaman, R.JRettig.
Second Senior.—Misses C. Foote, E Lindsay, ’ L. English. A. Bryson, L. Leoni, N. Leoni, A. Carpenter, N. Sherburn, A. Heckman, L. Chou- ’ teau, K Carpenter, W. Corby, J. Vanhorn M. Osle, E. Smith, K. Young.	*
Third Senior.—Misses M. Tuberty, F. Butters, H. Niel, A. Boyles,' H. Higgins, M. Kirwan, A. Fulwilder, A Wiley, R. Joslin, M. Dillon.
( First Preparatory.—Misses K. Robinson, A’ Master, S. O’Brien, J. Gittings, M. Foote, E. Darst, M. Lasson, J. Lonergan, S. Coffee, L. Barnett, E. Henry.
Second—Mi ses C. Edwards, L. Rose, P. Smith, K. O’Toole, M. O’Toole, E. Simms, M. Vanhorn, M. Minor.
Third.—Misses J. Denny, M. Clune, M. Coffey, A. Matthews, J. Davis, E. Leiler.
Instrumental Music.
Piano.
First Class.—Misses C. Foote, K. Young.
Second.—C. Heckman, M. Kirwan, L. and L. Tong, A. Ewing.
Second Div.—Misses A. Darcy, T. Vanhorn.
Third.—E. Ewing, S. O’Brien, K. Carpenter, L. English, L Barnett, M. Lasson, E. Kirwin, L. Leoni, R. Rettig, L. Chouteau, E Smith.
Fourth.—Misses M. Twoomy, L. McManaman, J. Lonergan, H. Kiel, M. Foote, M. Tuberty, L. Selby, M. Chouteau, M. Carraher.
Second Div.—Misses E. Lindsay, E. Lonergan, H. Higgins.
Fifth.—Misses A. Bryson, A. Carmody, N. Leoni, K. Cunnea, J. Dobson, A. Sturgis, A. Mast, W. Corby.
Second Div.—Misses A. Cunnea, A. Dunlap, R.
Joslin, A. Woods.	•
Sixth.—Misses R. Robinson, J. Denny, N. Sherburn, P. Smith, M. O’Meara.
Seventh.—Misses L. Jones, A. Byrnes, L. and M. McNamara. Eighth.—Miss M. Nash.
Guitar.	.
Misses N. Taber, E. Simms.
Table of Honor, Jr.
Misses M. O’Meara, M. and L. McNamara, A.
aBoyles, and B. Henry.	'
MICH. SOUTH. & M. I. RAILROAD.
ON and after Sunday, Nov. 22d, 1868, Passengr Trains will leave South Bend as follows;
GOING HAST:
Leave South Bend, 8 35 a. m. Arrive at Toledo, 4 26 p. m. “	11	11.10 “	“	“	5 00 ”
8 06 p. m.
12.19 a. m.
155 a. m.
6.15 “
Way Freight. 6. G p. m.
nil lour trains make close connection at Toledo with trains
for the East
GOING WBBT:
Leave South Bend, 6.12 a. hl “	“	6 40 o. m
“	' “	2.42 a. m
“	“ ■ 4 40 “
Way Freight.	11.10 p. m
Arrive at Chicago, 10 00 a. m. “	“	1(> 00 p. m
“	“	6 30 p. m.
Arrive at Laporte, 5.48 a. m.
MakingcunuectionB with all trains West and North.
(ST* For full details, see the Company's Posters and Time Tables at the Depot and other public places.
|3C Trains are run by Chicago Time, which is 20 minutes slower than Toledo Time.
CHAS F HATCH, Gen’l Sup’t Toledo. C P. Lkland, Gen’l Passenger Agent Toledo. -H. Snr-wN, Agent South Bend.
