£-
f
PUBLISHED WEEKLY AT NOTRE DAME. DEVOTED TO THE INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS.
Sditors of the Present Number:
J. MCBRIDE,	J. EDWARDS,	T. W. EWING.
Vol. I.
ISTotre Dame Tj niversity, Jan. 2-5, 1868.
No. 21.
SALUTATION.

rr
There are no feelings implanted more deeply in the human heart than those of love, honor and esteem; and the desire to express these sentiments to those whom we deem worthy of them is coeval with them. This desire has begotten a custom of greeting so universal and at the same time so widely different among men, that a form which might in one age and country, be considered a proper manifestation of esteem and the mark of a well bred gentleman, would perhaps in another seem to savor ot ignorance and servility, and be the impress of a weak and slavish mind. As it is something which we practise daily, aye, almost hourly, I hope it will not be thought amiss to take a brief review of the various modes of salutation in use in different parts of the world. The German catholic, instead of the usual greeting “good morning,” “your servant,” salutes you in the form prescribed by Pope Benedict XIII, in 1728, “Praised be Jesus Christ,” to which the person saluted answers, “For ever Amen-” The military salutation, which was introduced among the Germans in the sixteenth century, and which has since been modified according to the custom of the respective nations in which it is employed, consists in touching the hat or cap, the palm of the hand being turned out, raising the colors and the sword, or lowering the musket. Vessels upon meeting, salute each other by a discharge of cannon, “Dipping the flag,” or by the cheering of the sailors. We express our esteem for eminent men, and the fair sex by a slight inclination, and uncovering of the head. The Russian prostrates himself before a distinguished person, clasps his
knees, and kisses them. The Pole uncovers his head, and bends his body almost to the ground. , The Bohemian kisses at least the gown of him, for whom he wishes to manifest his profound respect; while the Turk crosses his hands, places them over his breast and makes his salam. The Hindoo in Bengal when saluting touches his forehead with his right hand and bends his body forward, he then places his right on his breast signifying that it comes from his heart, touches the ground and finally his forehead with the same hand, at the same time calling himself the most humble servant of him whom he salutes. The inhabitant of the Manillos bends his body, profoundly places his hand upon his cheek, raises one leg and bends the knee. In China if two persons meet on horseback the inferior in rank dismounts before his supsrior and remains standing until he has passed. In Japan the inferior takes off his sandals, puts his right hand into his left sleeve, permits his hands thus crossed to fall slowly upon his knees, passes his superior with • short measured steps exclaiming, with a fearful countenance, “Augh, Augh,” (do not hurt me). , In Siam the inferior prostrates himself on the ground before his superior, the latter then sends one of his attendants to examine whether he has eaten or carries any thing of an offensive smell, if that be the case he receives a kick from his superior and immediately retires; if otherwise the attendant lifts him up. The Abyssnians fall upon their faces and kiss the ground; several negro nations take each other’s hands and pull the fingers till they crack. The negroes of Serra-Leone bend their right elbow so that the hand touches the mouth, the person saluted doing the
2	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
same, they then put their thumb and forefinger together and with-draw them slowly; other negroes in meeting snap their finger, pull the comb out of their hair and replace it. In Morocco the Moors salute a stranger in a manner which might well shock the nerves of one unacustomed to it, they ride full speed towards the stranger as if they would run him down, then stopping suddenly, discharge their pistols over his head. The Egyptians extend their hands, place them on the breast and bend their heads; but the greatest act of courtesy among them is to kiss their own hand and aftewards place it upon their heads.
SlRKAZTIF.
ASTBOKOMY.
Magnitudes, Motions and Distances of the Heavenly Bodies.
Astronomy is that science which investigates motions, magnitudes and distances of the celestial orbs, the laws by which their motions are governed and the ends they are destined to subserve in the great fabric of the Universe.
Astronomy is now, as it has ever been, one of the most pleasing studies to man. Divines, philosophers and poets have studied and admired her teachings. Mighty Potentates have descended from their thrones to render her homage, and many of them have enriched her by arduous labors. The humble shepherd, whilst guarding his flock, gazed with secret admiration on the starry heavens, pictured to his imagination many fantastic figures, watched them in their regular and majestic movements, and praised the Omnipotent hand that wrought these celestial wonders. In fact, a study of the starry heavens, seems coeval with the existance of man, for ’tis by it that we are guided on our own little planet. The marri-ner finds his indices in the sky and he knows that they are unerring:. The wanderer in a wild and unknown land is guided by some mark in the heavens, and the poor savage tracks his lonely path with some well known star’ to direct his steps by night, and the powerful sun to lead him by day. The heavenly luminaries make our world beautiful, dispel the shades of night, and render us those substances necessary for our existence.
Light is requisite for vegetation and vegetation for life. In fact we cannot see how the world could exist without the heavenly lamps; and what is more necessary for us to know than those things by which we exist, or that are necessary
for our existence ? Astronomy is divided into three distinct branches, each branch pointing put a separate property of the heavens. Descriptive Astronomy, shows us, in all their beauty, those genial lamps of light and life. She guides our, gaze through Celestia’s broad domains, and names for us those many groupings, which her ingenuity has conceived. She points out to us most distinctly the planets—immense worlds—and their glittering paths. She occupies herself mostly in explaining the starry heavens as they appear by night. Physical Astronomy explains to us the construction of the heavenly bodies their motions and the laws by which these are governed. We are astonished with the description she gives of the magnitudes and distances of the heavenly orbs, yet her theories are lucid, and we are bound to admit them. She tells us that the sun is the grand centre of this universe, around which the -other heavenly bodies move' in subordination: that this potent luminary is 888,812 miles in diameter and contains an area of nearly 400 billions of cubic miles.
“ Great source of day! best image here below Of thy Creator! ever pouring wide, From world to world, the vital ocean round, On nature write, with every beam Ilis praise.” The planets are arranged in an established order, called the planetary system. •
. •, First Mercury, nearest heat and light Is seldom seen by human sight.
This planet though twenty-seven millions of miles from the sun, can seldom be seen on account of the overruling solar light. It is 3,200 miles in diameter and revolves in its orbit at the enormous rate of 30 miles per second, and rotates upon its axis in 24 hours 5 minutes and 28 seconds.
“ Next Mercury, Venus runs her larger round, With softer beams and milder glory crown'd; Friend to mankind, she glitters from afar, Now the bright evening now the morning star.”
Venus is placed in an orbit whose mean distance is 68,000,000 of miles from the sun. Its diameter is 7,700 miles and it traverses space at the rate of 22 miles every second, rotating upon its own axis in 23 hours and 21 minutes. Venus is sometimes the morning and sometimes the even- . ing star, and was termed by the ancient Greeks Phosphor and Hesperus.
“ From realms remote she darts her pleasing ray, Now leading on, now closing up the day;
Termed Phosphor when the morning beams she yields, And Hesp'rus when her ray the evening guilds.”
Next, in order of the system comes the planet earth—our own dear orb. The earth is distant from the sun 95,000,000 of miles, travels in its orbit at the rate of 19 miles per second. It is
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
3
7,926 miles in diameter and rotates upon its axis in 24 siderial hours or at the rate of 17 miles per minute.
And next pale Mars we view.
This planet, the first *in order of the superior planets, is 145,000,000 of miles from the sun, 4,500 miles in diameter, and rotates upon its axis once in 24 hours and 37 minutes.
Jupiter—great Jove—comes next; the largest of them all, and the most truly majestic. At a distance of 495,000,000 of miles from the sun he travels space at the rate of 30,000 miles per hour. His diameter is 92,000 miles, and he rotates upon his axis in 9 hours 59 minutes and 49.5 seconds. Thus whirling at the rate of 28,000 miles per hour.
Saturn we next behold—emblem of the Deity’s brightness and beauty—Saturn is distant from the sun 909,000,000 of miles, and is second planet in size. Its diameter is 75,000 miles and its rate of motion in its orbit 22,000 miles per hour. It rotates upon its axis in 10 hours and 30 minutes.
Uranus is next explained to us. This planet can never be seen by the naked eye. Its solar distance is 1,828,000,000 of miles, diameter 36,000 miles, and moves in its orbit at the rate of 15,000 miles per hour. The cold is so great there that—
“ One moment’s cold, like theirs, would pierce the bone, Freeze the heart’s blood, and turn us all to stone.”
Neptune closes up the mighty train of known worlds. Its solar distance is 2,862,000,000 of miles and it can be seen only with a powerful telescope. Its diameter is 35,000 miles and it makes one revolution around the sun in 164 years.
Between the planets, Mars and Jupiter, there are several small planets, termed asteroids, the total number now known amounting to 82. The planets with their moons or satellites are truly strong evidences that the hand of some Omnipotent Being is near. But what can be the object of the Creator, in the construction of so great a firmament, like which, we are led to believe, there are millions of others? What is the final destination of those huge globes which appear to fill up Celestia’s Vault? Are they merely to fill the voids of space or to gratify a few terrestrial astronomers in peeping at them through their glasses ? Has the Deity hung the heavenly arch with these lamps to enjoy them Himself, or are we to conclude that his Omnipotence is displayed no more than his wisdom and goodness, in forming these vast orbs and peopling them with intelligent beings, to share in his benificence and adore his perfection ? This last deduction is most compatible with any idea we
can entertain of the wisdom and intelligence of the Eternal Mind and the principles of the Divine government.
LITE OF A SOLDIEE.
The life of a soldier is one of many vicissitudes. It has been and is embraced, by countless numbers, and by means of it one may obtain a position on the pinnacle of glory. Nearly all the ancients were soldiers, and at least one half of the names which grace the pages of history, are those of men who have made themselves known by their exploits on the field of battle. In fine, it is a life of thrilling events, and wonderful scenes. The soldier first enters the army as what is called, “ a raw recruit.” At first everything is strange to him, and he has to endure hardships of every description. If it is in time of war, his home is a tent, through which the wind whistles and the heat finds an entrance. His furniture is a few camp stools; his bed is a miserable pallet of straw, covered with a blanket and thrown in one corner on the ground. His cooking utensils are few; his table is the ground; his food “hardtack ” and bacon. Eor “ mess-mates,” he has 4 or 5 comrades, who spend their time in playing cards and carousing. Often he is on the march, traveling through mud and snow over mountains and valleys, across rivers and swamps. When night comes on and time is not allowed to erect the tents, he selects 3 or 4 rails for his bed by placing them in the mud or snow, one of them serving as a pillow, and then covering them with apiece of oil-cloth. He captures townsand fights battles until he is hardened and becomes a veteran in the path of war. Then he may look forward for promotion. In some conflict or other, he has the good fortune to protect the standard from disgrace, or rescue the life of some officer; he is by this brought before the notice of his superiors and is given a position in the army. By successfully discharging the duties of this office, and by some daring deed of bravery he is raised from rank to rank until he becomes a general Then by his skill in carrying out campaigns, he is brought before the public notice by means of the press which so extols his virtues and conceals his faults, as to fire the minds of the people to such a degree, that every place he visits, he is received by enthusiastic multitudes, who vie with each other in doing him the most honor. Volumes and poems are dedicated to him. Songs are composed and sung in his praise. Grand processions
4
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
'are formed, and. banquets are given in his name He has a countless host of friendsand admirers, his acquaintance is sought after by every one until he commits some political offence then his fame commences to decrease and finally sinks into oblivion. People forget all about their former enthusiasm for him, and-they now receive him with hoots and hisses. His name is now execrated as much as it was formerly blessed. So changeable is the public mind. If he has not the misfortune to declare his political opinions, he is sought after by both parties to become their candidate for the next presidency, and if he accepts one or the other of them, and is elected and continues in his office without giving offence to one party, or the other, he is blessed by all, his name is handed down by history to posterity, as being an able General, a brave warrior, and an excellent statesman.
--------------------
The Universality of the English Language.
The English Language is spoken by more people, and used over a greater extent of country, and more diffused in all parts of the world, than any other Language, as the following facts and figeres show:
POPULATION.	EXTENT COUNTRY.
America,............40,000,000,........6,400,000.
Africa,................500,000,......... 500,000.
Asia,..............120,000,000,........1,600,000.
Europe,.............33,000,000,..........200,000.
Oceanica,............7,500,000,........3,300,000.
Grand Total,......201,000,000,........12,000,000.
An American on being once asked how his country was bounded answered: “ On the North by the Aurora Borealis, on the East by the Atlan tic Ocean, on the West by the Setting Sun andon the South by the day of Judgment.” With much more truth could I answer in a similar manner to the question: “ What are the boundaries of the extent of the English Language ?” by saying, “it is bounded on the North by the Polar Star, on the East by the Morning Star, on the South by the Southern Cross and on the West by the Star of Empire.” -----------------------■■ —
Another treat :—On last Sunday evening, an oyster supper was given by the members of the Notre Dame Skating Club. About fifty persons were in attendance, among whom were several members of the faculty. -
Reporters for Literary and other Societies, should make it a point to have their reports as concise as possible!
Review of Modem History.
[concluded.]
The wars of Independence, which overthrew the power of Napoleon, particularly in Spain and Germany, mark the period when all nations except France, awoke to political consciousness. The people of every country hoped, hy acquiriug independence abroad, to obtain freedom at home. They had taken up arms for the injured princes, in the belief that their gratitude (as Sovellanuo expressed liimself to Sebastiani) might induce them to abolish those abuses which had been the cause of the misery which had befiillen them. The insurgents of the South American Colonies, therefore, took the side of the princes of Europe in the wars of freedom in Spain. They only strove at first to shake off the dreadful oppression within their country, but were driven by the ill-timed resistance of the Spanish Central Junta of 1S11 into the first declaration of independence (manifesto of Venezuela), in which they, like the Americans in the North, appealing to the spirit of the age, justified their act of reparation by the natural equality of man. The wars of freedom in South America influenced the expedition of the army of Cadix, 1820, to stir up a revolt against the throne in favor of those popular institutions which had been restored by the self-sacrificing energy of the people. This was the commencement of the determination to effect political reforms in spite of every impediment, and the land which had suffered the longest from the burdens of the feudal system and from the severest despotism of princes, hoped to succeed in establishing a new order of affairs. AU the Roman States of the South (with the exception of France, Portugal, Naples and Piedmont), were affected by the movement of this period; but the combined powers of Austria and Russia had no difficulty in repressing attempts at insurrection in Italy and in a certain degree guided the counsels of France, and obliged her to suppress the Spanish Revolution.
Among other results, the movements in Spain had been the occasion of the insurrection in Greece, which had been long prepared by her intellectual and material improvement, by French delusions and Russian intrigues, and which the general incitement hastened to a crisis. This semi-barbarous nation happily ranged itself on the side of the Christian and human sympathies of Europe; although late in time, and laboring under physical and moral disabilities, she yet succeeded in defeating the evils of diplomacy, whose concord was first interrupted by the outbreak here and in Portugal. The cause of Greece, whose importance was from the commencement justly appreciated by Austria, helped to rouse Europe from the political apathy in which she had sunk after her exhaustion from the great movements of the past years. It exercised a powerful influence on the state of politics in Europe, particularly in France. Without their excitement, the events of 1830 would hardly have had the great results which began to make the eastern alliance of absolute powers despair in their work of the suppression of all free spirit in the people, and -which for fifteen years they had carried on so successfully.	_	G—S.
Gold and Platinum.—Relative Values and Weights.
As one or two discussions have occurred during the past month, and conflicting decisions have been given in regard to the relative values of these metals, I have deemed it not out of place to present to the readers of The Scholastic Year a few facts founded on acknowledged authority (Dana) in regard to them: A Troy pound of Gold varies from §228 to §242.40. And an equal weight of Platinum is estimated at from §90 to §100. Thus we see that the relative values are:
T^HE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	5
Gold, 1; Platinum, .394. The specific gravity of Platinum is 21.5; of Gold, 19.34; hence their relative weights are: Platinum, 1; Gold, .853. Having thus presented these few facts in the clearest manner, possible, it is hoped that if any one is laboring under any false idea in regard to the matter, that he may read and profit thereby. ----------------------
Notre Dame, Jan. 19th, 1866.
Dear Mother :—Your last unwelcome letter I got. I don’t know how it is, but them Editors of the School-house Year are all the time publishing your letters, and sometimes mine—if I was you I would not cumscribe to that paper—and if you was me you would run away and I guess I will. When I wrote that Horse that was put in the paper, some time ago, I thought that they were in earnest, but then when they go and show my letters around I am not going to stand it, so I’m going home next Saturday. You need not think I am running away from that examination, because I have been up in the Infirmity ever since Christmas, and the Doctor says my brain is weak, and I guess it is, for I have the headache all the time. The Doctor says I had better go home and resuste-kate, but I lost my dickshonary and I think I will. I forgot all about telling you that when I come here first, I went into the office, and they commenced to ask me my name and how old I was and where I come from and all about myself, but I was’nt green enough to tell them. At last they asked me what my mother’s name was, and that made me mad. I up and told them, that they need’nt trouble themselves about you, you -were a little too old to come to this school. Then they commenced to laugh at me, but I guess he aint smarter than I am. I guess they think that I’m going to stay here and be a Doctor, but I’m only going to stay until Saturday. I found a piece of paper the other day, and it said: I. Partington, Esq., Dr. to University of Notre Dame. How would this look on a window,, Doctor I. Partington, Esq., M. D. They say that it was me who stole that Eagle, and your goose for Christmas was him—but it aint so. This is not a bit like it was when you went to school. There aint any fun at all, except during recess. If you dont send after me on Saturday, I’ll do the same as Easton did, walk every step of it until I get to Mishawaukie. I am going in the study-hall to get my books on Friday.
No more from your affectionate son. Isaac.
■ N. B. I aint studying Greak and Latin, because they aint no use.	I.
LITERARY.
The seventeenth meeting of the St. Aloysius— Philodemic Society, was held Jan. 21st, 1868; at which the following, formed the programme of the evening:'	.
essays :
By Messrs. TF. T. Johnson on “Love of Native Land,” and Henry Allen on “Knowledge.” Both were given -with force, propriety and ease.
debate.
Affirmative: James O’Reilly and R. A. Pinkerton. Negative: J. C. Dolan and W. McClain.
Question: Resolved, That “Political parties are injurious to the state in which they exist.”
Mr Dolan, first gentleman on the Negative, absent; Mr. McClain, second on the same side, delinquent, on account of a misunderstanding of the question. Mr. O’Reilly took the stand, only to be corroborated in his arguments by the next gentleman ; there being no opposition. His arguments were characterized by solidity and careful preparation.
. Mr. Pinkerton, his colleague, then arose and in bringing forth his arguments, displayed remarkable enthusiasm. He was, however, confident that the victory was won, .(of course).
At the conclusion of the meeting, the Corresponding Secretary announced the reception of two letters; one from Hon. S. Colfax, Speaker of the House of Representatives, the other from Mr. McMichael of Notre Dame. They were previously informed of being elected Honorary Members of the Society, and by medium of the Secretary, express their sincere gratifications at being recognized as such.	B. T.
------«i>---------
St. Edward’s Literary.
The 15th regular session of this society was held on Tuesday evening; Jan. 21st, and the following essays were read.
“A trip to Notre Dame,” by Mr. J. P. Rogers was very fine. The description he gave of the scenery along the road from Pittsburg to Cleveland, must necessarily have impressed the idea of a beautiful landscape on the minds of all.
Mr. J. C. Foley’s production: “The Lake Superior Copper Mines,” was quite interesting, giving as he did a brief history of their discovery and manner of working.
Mr. Ewing having prepared no essay yoluntered to give an extemporary speech which he did in good style, on the growth of the American Republic. After a few remarks on the essays the meeting adjourned.	Buckeye.
J
i
6	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
Before the appearance of the next number of The Scholastic Year, the Examination will be over, and the first session of the year will have expired. Now, then, is the time to review it and consider the work done, the progress made, the success achieved. All, no doubt, began it with a purpose. They laid out their programme at the beginning, and now they may see whether or not they have carried it out.
To such as have made the improvement they had intended, nothing can give more satisfaction than the fact of having done what they meant to do, and that now they may possibly be promoted to higher classes, if need be, or occupy a higher rank in the same classes. Whatever may happen, there is a certain fixed fact, namely, that their labors will not be without reward, and that every branch which they have carefully studied, every book thoroughly known, will prove of immense advantage to them and serve them as a solid step to reach higher; for this is the true philosophy of the serious student—never to leave aside a science without being perfectly conversant with it ; never to consider as ill spent the time given to the study of a branch, the knowledge of which, future studies will strictly demand. As a consequence of this, let none ask to be dispensed with studies not creditably and entirely gone through.
Professor Griffith has manifested his desire to give his lessons on Elocution during the month of February. This very agreeable intelligence will, no doubt, be cheerfully received by those who attended the course of the Professor last year. The lessons, this year, will be attended by all the students, without exception. We are confident that none will repent having spent an hour every day under the teaching of the able Professor. The lessonswill very probably begin with the Session.
Among the striking features of the Second Session will be the lectures which, for various reasons, were not given during the First Session. {The want of a room sufficiently commodious and large, inside the college, where all the students could listen to the lecture, obliged us to postpone them till the weather would permit the use of Washington Hall.)
Rev. Father Mullen has prepared a course of lectures on English Literature.
Prof. T. E. Howard will give two lectures on Astronomy.
Prof. A. A. Griffith will give some of his choicest readings. .
The Philodemic, St. Edward, Thespian and Philomathean Societies will also contribute to
enliven the Session, by some literary tournaments, one of which, no doubt, will be a grand affair.
We need not now point out to all the exhibitions, literary or musical, which will bring their share of enjoyments during the forthcoming Session, but we foresee an unusual abundance of such agreeable recreations.
TTONTORABLB MENTION.
CHEMISTRY.
W. T. Johnson.
NATURAE PHH.OSOFHY.
W. T. Johnson.
GEOLOGY.
H. B. Keeler, E. E. Hull, J. E. McBride, S. Hibben, J. Cunnea, E. S. Pillars and E. Donhoff.
MINERALOGY.
H. B. Keeler, Jas. Cunnea, S. Hibben, E. S. Pillars, J. E. McBride and E. E. Hull.
ANATOMY.
R. Clark, H. Rodman, G. Yeakle, A. Owen and E. V. Donhoff.
FIRST FRENCH.
D.	J. Wile and W. Waldo.
SECOND FRENCH.
EL P. Morancey, F. Nicholas R. G. Heffernan, J. Lafferty and M. Mahony.
THIRD FRENCH.
J. Dickinson, J. Rogers, F. Guthrie, E. Donhoff, O. Walker, N. Dubuis, T. Dubuis, R. McCarthy and F. Dwyer
FIRST GERMAN,—FIRST DIVISION
E.	Eisenmann, D. Wile, J. Staley and A. Hoffmann.
FIRST GERMAN,—SECOND DIVISION.
Vincent Hackman, C. Ewes, J. J. Alber and Geo. Baner. .
SECOND GERMAN,—FIRST DIVISION.
A. B. White, Wm. Rhodes, John Gibbons, W. O’Donnell, J. Srisser, L. Botto and L. Garcin.
SECOND GERMAN,—SECOND DIVISION.
Frank Ingersoll, R. McCarthy, A. Wetherbee, John Noha, John Broderick, Joseph Schmeltz, E. Callahan, C. Hildebrand and Robert Staley.
THIRD GERMAN,—FIRST DIVISION.	•
J. H. Lecompte, J. Rogers, J. E. McBride and
R.	A. Brown.	»
THIRD GERMAN,—SECOND DIVISION.’
E. S. Pillars, D. N. Kelly, C. J. Hertich, Wm. Walker, D. Fitzgerald and Joseph Wilson.
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	.	7
THIRD GERMAN—THIRD DIVISON.
John Dunn, L. Wilson and John Shannon.
DRAWING.
S.	R. Teats, J. Flanigan and I. Buddeke.
VOCAL MUSIC.
J. Dickinson, S. B. Hibben, E. B. Walker E. E. Hull, J. E. McBride, W.- B. Smith, J. J. Sullivan, N. S. Wood, A. O’Reilly and J. Lafferty.
. INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
C. Hertich, E. Donhoff, W. Sanguinel, J. Rumley, P. White, W. O’Donnell and E. Morancey.
PIANO.
H.Falkenbach, J. Lafferty, J. Vocke, A. O’Reilly, J. Edwards G. Trussel, H. Cooney and F. Myers.
CORNET BAND.
J. W. Watts, J. A. Dickinson, A. Hoffman, C. Hertich and N. S. Wood.	.
CHOIR.
V. Hackman, J. Dunne, R. Staley, C. Hutchings, B. Heffernan, J. Crevoisier, J. Dickinson, J. Ward, J. E. McBride, J. Watts and F. Pape.
PIANO, (sr.)
E. Hoffman, F. Pape, A. H. Menard, E. Teats J. Buddeke, T. Fuhrer, F. Nicholas J. O’Reilly and R. Broughton.	•
PIANO, (JR.)
D. Wile, R. McCarty, R. Staley, J. Broderick and F. Kiser.
VIOLIN.
J. Watts.
GUITAR.
J. E. McBride, J. D. McCormick J. Lafferty and C. Dodge.
The National Union, South Bend, and The Mishawaka, Enterprise, come regularly among our exchanges. Both the Union and Enterprise are conducted with spirit and talent, and while upholding respectively, Democratic and Republican Doctrines give an excellent; selection of general reading matter.
We received from St. Mary’s two very good enigmas, one from Miss Ingersoll and the other from Miss Harriet Neil. Both were crowded out this week. We also received a Latin translation, but not knowing the real name of the author, we refused to publish it. However we will admit that he deserves credit.	■
-----w
A remarkable eact:—The Editors of the present number of the Scholastic, are all Buckeyes:—the only triad, from one state, in the Editorial Corps.
Saint Mary’s Academy, 7 • Jan. 20th, 1868. J
ARRIVALS.
Miss Mary Gordon,-------,------.	,
TABLES OF HONOR.
Senior Department.—Misses L. Murray, K. Doran, Florence Alspaugh, Mary Toomey, Mary Van Patten, K. Cunnea, Anna Machin, Lorena Rettig, Nora Maher, K. Graham, Emma Longsdorf, Sarah Gleeson.
Junior Department.—Misses M. Toberty, C. North, Harriet Hunt, Amelia Boyles.
HONORABLE MENTION.
Graduating Class.—Misses Mary Tripp, Blanche Walton, H. Brooks.	•
First Senior Class.—Misses L. and L. Tong, K. Livingston, Maggie Ball, Eunice Crouch.
Second Senior Class.—Misses S. Rooney,’ M. Sterling, Alice Gates, C. Bertrand, Anna Cunnea, L. Lyons, Mary Carraher, Anna-Adams, Rosana Mukautz,. C. Davenport, F. North, Virginia Brown, Mary Morrill, Mary Miller, Anastasia Darcy, Emma Pickett, Mary Druliner, H. Lill, Sarah Teetzel, L. McManman, M. Walton.
Third Senior Class.—Misses N. Ogle, Amanda Sisson, Georgiana and Sarah Blakeslee, Emma Ranstead, Sarah Shipley, Alice Dunn, E. and S. Miller, T. Lafferty, Christina Thompson, Winifred Corby, Emma Conan, Arvada Bragg, Clara Foote, Julia Murray.
First Intermediate Class.—Misses Teresa Stapleton, Anna Tarrant, Augusta Sturgis, S. Walker, Ellen Lindsay, L. Bicknell, H. Cameron, Anna B. Acker, Rose Joslin, M. and L. Cummerford, Henrietta Duval, Mary Hally, Mary Gordon, K. Clark, Clara Ward, Julia Walker. .	-
Second Intermediate Class.—Miss M. Walker.
First Junior Class.—Misses M. Sissons, Mary Clark, Ida Furbish, Adalade Metzger.
Third Junior Class.—Miss K. Foreman.
EXAMINATION.
The absorbing subject of interest and attention among the young ladies at present, is preparation for the examination, now fast approaching. The various branches stand, each as a competitor ready for the contest.' Mathematics, Logic, History, Music, the Languages, etc., are inclined' to encroach upon each other’s premises; to question each other’s rights, for each branch desires to present itself most advantageously. Only by prudent legislation are they kept in a peaceable attitude, since each is so exacting.	:
■A cheerful emulation, however, seems to actuate all, and amusements,—so freely enjoyed in the
*>
8	THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
holy days—now occupy a comparatively small place in the minds of the candidates for promotion, which class, in truth, embraces the entire school.
The days, though constantly increasing in length, are still not long enough to satisfy the studious disposition of those who are most eager to excel. Great satisfaction is felt in the spirited endeavors of the pupils, and there is good reason to believe that all will be prepared to pass a strict examination. '
' SINGING OF THE JUNIORS.
The children of the Junior Department, many of whom possess very sweet voices, sang some pretty hymns in - church on Sunday, the 19th, both at Mass and Vespers.
“ Venite Adoramus 1” the angelic echo of Christmas night, still rings clearly on the air, and childlike hearts still love to bow in adoring love before the Saviour of the world.
The little girls also sang very sweetly at Mass, in the chapel of Loretto, on Monday morning.
Academy of the Assumption, ) New Lowell, Jan. 10th, 1868.
Senior Glass.—The Cross of Honor for superior excellence of deportment, is awarded to Misses Jenny Shank and Mary L. Miller.
Junior Class.—Nellie Turnock and Barbara Karl.
Academy of the Assumption, ) New Lowell, Jan. 17th, 1868. j
Cross of Honor awarded weekly for excellent conduct:	- -
Senior Department.—Maggie Tomlinson and Jenny Shank.
Junior Department.—Alice Nelson and Clara Weston.
Honorable mention in Practical Arithmetic:
Senior Department.—Lowell Turnock and J. Deitz.
Junior Department.—Barbara Karl and Hattie Simons.
Second Division.—M. Cooney, Jennie Ashtin.
German Class, Conduct.—Augusta Snmetz. •	‘
Competition in Geography—Mary Hanson and ' Julia .Numer.
Reading.—Anne Berwangen and Amelia Nier-nun.	•
St. Ambrose’s School, [ Michigan City, Indiana, j
The following deserve honorable mention:
First Glass, First Division.—Mary Fogarty and
L. J. Ashton.	..
Second Division.—Mary Justinson and Maggie . Fitzpatrick.
Second Class, .First 'Division—Ella Shiels and
.Sarah Lynch.	■	•
Second Division.—Anne Ashton and W. Kellogg.
Geman Glass, Gonduct.—Mary Kenger and Augusta Snmetz.
First Division, Reading.—Anne Berwanger and Leo. Snmetz.
Second Division.—J. Snmetz and Emma Sehili.
Holy Angel’s Academy, 1 Logansport, Indiana. $
The following pupils are deserving of mention for superior excellence:
First Senior.—M. Groves and J. Green.
Second Senior.—F. Knowlton and E. Beckley.
First Intermediate.—M. Kreetzer and C. Cornwall.
Second Intermediate.—F. Fetters and A. Falvey.
Third Intermediate.—T. Beckley and J. Leffert.
German Class.—J. Spencer and M. Schlosser. .
PAROCHIAL SCHOOL.
First Class.—M. Lillis and J. Lismeran.
Second Glass.—E. Cook and J. Malay.
Third Class.—K. McTaggant and L. Shnebarker.
[Want of space compels us to materially abridge some of the reports this week.] ■
-------«>-----
Why is Notre Dame University like the St.
Joseph Biver ?—Because there are suckers in it!
-	St. Ambrose’s School, J
Michigan City, Indiana. 'J The following deserve honorable mention: First Glass, First Division, English, Glass.— Competition in Geography and History—Alary Charleton, Alice Doyle and Anistasia Sullivan.
Second Division.—Competition in Beading—T. Beilly and Anne Berwangen.
■ Second Glass, First Division.—Anne McKee and Sarah Lynch.	•
A Chess Club, consisting of twelve Senior students, under the directorship of Prof. M. A. J. Baasen, was organized on the 10th, inst. The following officers were elected:
President—S. B. Hibben.	'
Vice-President—J. E. McBride.
Secretary—J. P. Bogers. *
Treasurer—Geo. Yeakle.
Censor—E. H. Teats.
. S. B. Hibben, Sec. Pro. Tern.