3
5
Jotre Dame Scholastic.
DIsoo quasi semper victTLi’us; vlve quasi eras morlturus.
Volume XIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 13, 1880.
Number 27.
St. Patrick’s Day.
i	FROM “PRELUDES,” BY MAURICE F. EGAK.
r	7
Is there a land in all the great ronnd earth In which thy name’s unknown, O gracious Saint ?
L	Thy people praise thee; wild, strong, March winds faint
Beneath the burden of a pious mirth
In mem’ry of thee. Where’s the sad complaint
Of yesterday ? To-day our preachers paint
1	Thy glory, Truth-bearer. Hope takes new birth;
Old tales of Ireland light the dullest hearth.
Greater than Israel have thy people been ;
Greater than Moses, gracious Patrick, thou :
1	For greater sorrow have no people seen,
And so resigned did no people bow
■j.	Unto God’s will, which, changing all Spring’s green,
Leads them to Spring through Fall and Winter now.
Lamennais.
In the biographical history of modern times there is recorded no character so opposite as that of Hugues Felicite r Robert de Lamennais—the subject of our sketch—born in St. Malo, on the 19th of June, 1772.
r As a native of Brittany, Lamennais possessed a glowing faith, a deep energy, and an unprecarious disposition. His family were of noble lineage, and his father a very wealthy ship-owner. In his early years, however, young Lamennais was doomed to experience the vicissitudes of mis-
S fortune, which were consequent on the demise of his' mother, and also from the condition to which his father ■k was reduced, on account of the capture of his ships by the Spanish, and the failure of a forced loan. Until he was about twelve years old young Hugues Felicite was governed by his elder brother, at which time he fell to the care of an uncle, under whose guardianship he was com-pelled to study, and to spend the most of the day reading in the library. By this close application to study, he soon became conversant with many of the ancient authors, such as Livy, Tacitus, Horace, Homer, etc., and became quite an admirer of Rousseau. About this time he began to evince inclinations to a religious life, and loved to carry on disputes of points of religion, ardently desiring, at the same time, to peruse all kinds of works which treated of re-'ligion, hetrodox as well as orthodox.
> On attaining his sixteenth year he and his brother fixed their residence at La Chenaie, and here he gave himself to the reception of a systematic course of studies, and soon became a thorough scholar in Latin, Greek and Hebrew, as well as master of several modern languages. He stored his mind with the love of the ancient historians, and Fa-
( thers of the Church, and ridiculed the flimsy and seemingly subtle arguments of modern thinkers. But notwith-5 standing the maturity of his mind, and the knowledge he‘
had already acquired, he did not make his First Communion before he attained his twenty-second year, at which time he also chose the ecclesiastical state. He hesitated, however, and doubted for a long time before he took this important step. But, alas! it seems that the influence of pursuasion and worldly motives bore too much influence in his choice, and that it did not proceed from wholly self taste, or from a good intention.
From the life of this man a lesson of wisdom may be learned, namely, what a lamentable thing it is for a person to intrude himself into the holy ministry of God, influenced by the motives of worldly honors. In 1811 he received the tonsure. Lamennais was what may be truly styled, a self-made man; and as Renau says, “ he had no known master; no institution can claim any part of his renown. His profoundly marked character of race, and his ecclesiastical education, Brittany and the Seminary can claim; these alone it was that formed him.”
Lamennais began very early to write, and at the age of twenty-five he translated a work on asceticism, in which he displayed a keen discernment and a forcible diction, which characterize his subsequent productions. In 1880 he published his, “Reflections on the State of the Church,” in which he boldly and openly attacked religious neutrality, and exposed the tenets of the philosophical materialism rampant at the time. No sooner had the latter work appeared than it was destroyed by the public officers. Lamennais now began to attract attention as one of the leading men of the time. He was closely watched by the leaders of the public party, as his caustic arguments and pungent invectives were well adapted to disclosing their secret designs. The next work which appeared was the “ Tradition of the Church on the Installation of Bishops,” in which he disproved the Gallican principle of the right of lay investiture, namely, that the election is valid without papal approbation.
In 1814 he moved to Paris, after having spent some time as teacher in the Seminary of St. Malo, founded by his brother. While in Paris, he led a quiet and sequestered life. Bnt when the house of the Bourbons regained the supremacy, he hailed it as a glorious event, decried the tyranny of Napoleon, declaring that “to study the life and character of such a man in the institutions founded by him, was to sound the black depths of crime, and to seek the measure of human perversity.”
But now as the affairs of the State seemed every day- to assume a more turbulent character, he thought it more prudent to leave the country for a while, and so he betook himself to the small Isle of Guernsey, where he passed under the pseudonyme of Patrick Robertson. Here he watched the movement of public events, but not yet thinking it safe to return to his own country, he made a tour to London, where he taught school and employed his time in reading and writing.
During the year 1815 young Lamennais returned to
416	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Paris and entered the Seminary of St. Sulpice, where he seems to have remained but for a short time, after which he took up quarters in the Seminary of the Feuillantines, where he passed nearly four years. While in this seminary he seemed to have given up his liking for public affairs, and to be wholly given to his spiritual duties. France was still in a very precarious condition, and the cries for restoration were, “Long live the king! down with the tyrant! Long live the Bourbons! ”
In 1816 Lamennais received the dignity of the priesthood, and about one year afterwards appeared his first religious production, Eisai sur I'Indifferenc een Mature de Religion. This work was the fruit of long and dilligent study, and on its first appearance spread over all Europe. It attacked the ruling principles of society at the time, and refuted the scientific doctrines of materialism. Of Lamennais the great Lacordaire said: “ This young priest found himself invested with the powers of Bousset.” It was his aim to bring society back to the state it was in under Charlemagne, or to engraft anew the remnants of the principles of Hilldebrand; and hence he followed up the designs of De Bonald, De Maistre, and Chateaubriand. He became associated with Chateaubriand, Vill&le and others in the publication of a journal called the Conservatoire, the object of which was to weaken the power of certain political associations, and to defend the ecclesiastical authority.
As a defender of monarchical institutions, Lamennais defended the prerogatives of the throne, and thereby more easily secured protection to the Church, and fixed more securely the Catholic authority. It was not long, however, before a rupture took place between him and Villdle; for in 1720 he deserted the party with whom he was allied, and by means of a journal called Drapeau Blanc, and afterwards by means of Memorial Catholique, he endeavored to bring the ministery of Vill&le into disrepute.
It was about this time that marks of that duplicity of character, which afterwards so strongly appeared in all his writings, began to appear by the publication of the first volume of his Essai, in which were foreshadowed many false and dangerous tendencies. In the second volume of this same publication his principles became more apparent. Tn it he rejected the Cartesian doctrine of individual reason, and in its place substituted the principle of the universal consent of mankind, as the fundamental principle of all true belief, and endeavored to make this theory the foundation of an alliance between reason and faith. He also maintained that revelation was not the only means of knowing supernatural truths, but said that there was a sort of a pre-established harmony between human reason and faith, and that therefore the universal belief of mankind was a sufficient ground for the doctrines of faith. In the last volumes of this work he gave his researches on the universal traditions of mankind, which he compiled from records of different peoples, and sought to maintain that Catholicity alone possessed this two-fold principle of universality, in respect to tradition of revealed truths. In this work is shown a vast amount of erudition and diligentjresearch, which show to good advantage the great powers of his mind, though, for the most part, his arguments are not wholly complete.
This work was vehemenfly attacked by the professors of the Sorbonne, and many other great writers of the time* who showed to what fatal consequences the doctrines contained thereinjwould lead, if rigorously maintained. Lam' ennais replied to.the objections made by those men against
his work, and in order to show how much they were at fault, he made a journey to Rome, to lay before His Holiness the work which he considered so savagely attacked; but he was received coldly by the College of Cardinals, although Leo XII had as yet a favorable opinion of him, and, as rumor has it, offered him the Cardinal’s Cap, which Lamennais declined.
This singular individual, now began to feel the opposition of his opponents more severely than at first; but he did not, however, succumb. In fact, both parties became more determined in their opposition in calumny, and in their attacks on one another. Lamennais, however, still adhered to royalty, as his bulwark and support against democracy and public fanaticism, as he was pleased to term the principles of the opposite party.
In 1825, another work entitled, “ Religion Considered in its Bearings to the Civil and Ecclesiastical Orders,” came from Lamennais’ pen, in which he ridiculed the grant of 1682, containing thesecured liberties of the GallicanJChurch, and endeavored to prove that the only solution of the political problem which so greaily disturbed the State at the time, was a papal theocracy. In this production there still lurks those two opposing principles, which he had broached in a former work. The leaders of the antiroyalists at last became exasperated at Lamennais’ attack, and through their influence he was arrested and condemned, after a long and able defence by Berryer.
About this time a strong opposition arose between Lamennais and the Bishops of France, who thought he was carrying his doctrines too far, and if they said nothing before this, they now thought it time to oppose his subversive theories of political and religious liberty.
In 1831 this champion of royalty started another journal called l'Avenir (The Future), of which the motto was Dieu et Lebeti, le Pape et le Peuple. In this he was assisted by many young men who wrote for him, and endeavored to spread its doctrines. Among these assistants may be named Lacordaire and Montelambert. As the motto indicates, the gist of the publication was quite extensive. It asserted that the declaration of 1682 was antagonistic to the Church, and demanded freedom of the press, freedom of education and freedom of conscience. Soon, however, on account of the condition of the times, it was suspended and Lamennais, Montelambert, and Lacordaire repaired to Rome in order to have the VAvenir receive the Papal approbation. But the Pope, refusing to grant them an audience, they returned home poorly repaid for their long and toilsome journey. Before they reached home, however, Lamennais received an encyclical from Gregory XVI, in which the doctrines of the VAvenir were openly condemned. Upon the reception of this document Montelambert and Lacordaire severed their connection with the journal, and submitted themselves, as also did -Lamennais, to the authority of Rome. Lamennais being now deserted on all sides, still continued to wave his controversial pen. He retired into a quiet villa, where he could have more time for meditation; and during this retirement he composed in the short space of one week his Paroles d?un Croyant (The Sentiments of a Believer.) It did not appear, however, until 1834, and from the day of its publication may be dated Lamennais’ final separation from the Catholic Church. In this strange work is embodied the distinguishing marks of his character as a writer and as a man. It combines the deepest passion, piety and simplicity. At one time a person would thin^
A
THE NOTICE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	417
it was the production of a cloistered monk, at another, that of Robespierre or Danton. It spread rapidly throughout Europe, and in the Papal condemnation is called a book small in size, but great in perversity.
After the publication of the aforesaid work, Lamennais somewhat abated his political spirit, and wrote a pamphlet Affares de Rome, in which he seems to lament his severance from the Church. After this appeared many other small essays from his pen, one of which he called Le pays st le Governement for which he was imprisoned for a year.
About this time Lamennais became one of the leaders of the Republican party, and took an active part in the revolution of ’48 ;• he was elected by a large majority a member of the assembly to be convened at Paris. He projected a constitution, which he proposed to the assembly, but it was rejected, as it was too conservative for such an assembly. When the Coup detai of 1821 was passed he retired from the political field, buried himself in silence, and passed his time in study. He soon began to decline in health, and many persons sought admittance in order to bring about his reconciliation with Rome, but he would receive no one, except a few of his nearest friends. He died shortly after, on the 21st of Fetftuary, 1854. His funeral was attended by a great concourse of people, but his obsequies presented a gloomy aspect, by reason of none of the sacerdotal rites of burial being performed; and, up to the present day, I believe there is not even a stone to mark his last resting-place.
Thus passed from this world on to the broad shores of eternity one of the greatest agitators of modern times. His life was a failure. His theories were too idealistic, and these he sought to make the basis of .practical institutions. He was at first one of the greatest and ablest defenders of the Papacy, and afterwards he sought to raze it to its very foundation. The sarcasm and irony of his enemies affected him but little; but the resipiscence of his failure in life caused him great melancholy, especially in his latter days. Had he devoted his talents to some good purpose, he might be ranked as one of the brightest ornaments of the Catholic Church as well as one of the greatest statesmen of modern times; as it is, he can only be reckoned among the number of modern revolutionists.	E. L.
Patriotism.
“Is there a man with soul so dead, Who never to himself hath said, This is my own, my native land ?”
Patriotism is a disinterested love of country—a love in which there is no alloy of ambition or self-aggrandizement, a love that makes our country’s interests our own, that causes us to rejoice in her joy, and to mourn in her affliction. The true patriot leaves no effort untried, no action undone, whereby his country may be honored and respected by other nations; he delights to see her institutions strengthened and her customs perpetuated, and never feels so happy as when engaged in her service, or in the promotion of her interest. For her he will renounce home and friends, happiness and ease, and will always give her the preference to everything else—God and religion alone excepted.
It now may be asked, perhaps, whence comes this love of country? Why does man always cling with his whole heart and soul of to that place where he first saw the light of day—where he first experienced feelings of pleasure and
perhaps, of pain? Do not other climes appear-as agreeable, and other skies as blue as those of his own native land ? Is it becausea country contains one’s relatives and friends, or because native land is but another name for so-cial affections? No: it cannot be this; for the most friendless person living loves the land that gave him birth, and under whose bright sun he first learned to love beauty*, goodness and truth. This country he prefers to all others, and from it his soul’s allegiance cannot be alternated. Hence a man may live for the greater part of his life in a country that in beauty of scenery, fertility of soil, and richness of natural productions far surpasses his own, yet to his mind no comparison between them ever occurs. He loves his own land the best of all.
It was thus the children of Israel felt when they complained that they could not sing the songs of Sion in a strange land. And though placed in the delightful plains, under the pleasant shades of the cedars of Lebanon, still they wept by the waters of Babylon, when they thought on thee, O Sion! It is the actions of a nation’s heroes that spur on men to noble and generous deeds, assisting and keeping alive a spirit of patriotism, of heroism, of disinterestedness, that in whomsoever found, be he king or peasant, charms the admiration of all. Is it not deeds of valor that causes us to be mindful of a Washington, a Wallice, an O’Connell, a Lafayette, an Alexander, a Hannibal, a Caesar, and a host of others. Is it not such men—men who have dona good for their country, either in a religious or a political point of view, that every nation on the face of the globe honors to-day? Does not England honor Wellington because he gained for her the famous battle of Waterloo? Does not France honor her Charlemagne, her King Louis XIV, her “ Maid of Orleans,” and others ? Does not America honor her Washington? does not Germany honor her coterie of great and good men? and does not Ireland honor her St. Patrick, her St. Lawrence O’Toole, Roderick O’Conner, Brian Borough, her Malachy, her Grattan, and others? Is this reasonable? I should think it is perfectly so.
In Tyrol the name of Andrew Hoefel is still a household word. William Tell is said by some to be a myth, but it would require a good deal to persuade the people of Switzerland that such is the case; and it is thus that Thomas Francis Meager discribes the honor in which this singular personage is held. “By the soft blue waters of the Lake of Lucerne stands the chapel of William Tell; over its blue waters, as they glimmer in the July sun, on th* anniversary of his revolt and victory, come the boats of the allied Cantons; at their prows, hang the banneis of the Republic; as they near the shore the madiens of Lucerne sing the hymns of their old poetic land; when the shore is reached, the glad Te Reum bursts forth, and heaven again hears the voice of that wild chivalry of the mountains which five centuries since pierced the white eagle of Vienna, flung bleeding on the rocks of Dri.”
It is with nations as with individuals; those who claim our respect are those who hold as their dearest interest the welfare of their country. It is on this account that Poland, though conquered and enslaved, has our most cordial respect and sympathies; while for Russia, though great, victorious and'tyrannical, we care but little, if anything at all.
I doubt if there was ever a people that have shown such an unfaltering devotion to country and conscience as the Irish. They have certainly done as Wolsey conjured Cromwell to do. For God, country, and truth, they have
418
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
endured for over seven hundred years a persecution, both cruel and unrelenting, with a constancy that elicits our surprise and admiration.
It would, indeed, be useless to attempt to mention the names of Ireland’s countless numbers of martyred heroes. Her patriots have not been confined to any station or position in life, or to any particular locality. It matters not whether we follow the fortunes of the lordly baron, from the time he leaves his stately castle to wage war with an unequal foe, until the day in which he views the destruction'of that castle in which for generations his ancestors lived and died; or the humble peasant, from the time he shoulders his pike to strike a blow for bleeding Erin, until he sees his starving wife and children driven from their miserable home to die of hunger and cold by the wayside; we see exhibited in both cases the same heroic patriotism, a love of country and of religion that challenges our admiration.
In perusing the accounts of the trials and misfortunes of this ill-fated land, I, as an American student, am astonished at the patience and fortitude with which her children bore, up under trials and sorrows that seemed to far surpass the strength of hnman nature itself. And though this generous people were offered peace and plenty, if they would but renounce their religion, nevertheless they refused to do so, and thus never have they proved recreant to the faith or the land of their forefathers; so that in reading the annals of those times of persecution and wholesale slaughter, though we may, perhaps, sometimes weep, yet we have seldom reason to blush. In fine, if we trace the history of Ireland,’from the battle of Clontarf, when this nation drove the Danes from her shores, and when three generations of the kingly house of Borough lay dead upon the field, until in our own day, when the three heroes of Manchester gave testimony of their love for their “dear old Innisfail,” by their well remembered shout of “God save Ireland!” we shall find a patriotism so exalted, so sublime, that in vain may we search the records of other nations for anything to surpass it, or, perhaps, to equal it.
But, may it not be said, that we, who have the honor to claim for our country such a title as “ the land of the free and the home of the brave ” have no occasion to go across the dark blue seas in order to seek for examples of true patriotism,—patriotism so duly admired by all. There is a great deal of truth in this; for when we consider the outlook of this country at the opening of the “ Revolutionary War ” —when we look at a mere handful of ill-equipped, undisciplined troops, oppose themselves to the army of the then most powerful nation in Europe, we are firmly convinced that nothing short of a most ardent love of freedom and country could induce those gallant sons of America to take up arms at so imminent a risk of defeat; yet they took them up, and fought most manfully in the long and bloody struggle that followed, and which finally resulted in the Independence of the United States. These solders, though poorly provided for, as to food, clothing, and pay, and though almost continually engaged in active service, never lost courage, nor for a moment entertained the idea of abandoning the grand object for which they struggled— freedom and independence. Those, then, who have for their ancestors the heroes of Vally-Forge, of York Town, etc., may be proud of these model patriots, and all of us can certainly profit by their example; we can learn from them a love of country, a love of everything noble and generous, and by the sons of America following in their foot
steps we shall never want brave hearts and strong arms to defend America’s laws, and to battle for her rights.
M. J. D.
Rural Happiness.
It is a well established fact that the country is the most pleasant abode of man. Here it is that he finds himself in almost constant communion with nature, the beauties of which not unfrequently enrapture his heart. He is undisturbed by the tumults and uproars of city life, and in no way a slave to that petty tyrant, Fashion, who makes fops and fools of many that would have the world think they are something more than they really are,—Fashion, that forms and festers hollow friendships and alliances; that makes happiness depend on the cut of a coat, or the length of the moustache; that throws all true gentility into a slavish comformity to fixed rulbs, which often look absurd and ridiculous, not to say, unnatural.
In the country, a person is free from the many vices and bad habits with which a person residing in the city is ever surrounded,—vices that can thrive only in the midst of multitudes, and under the guise of trade, fashion", politics, or such things as appear fair without, but which in reality sap the very foundations of morality and virtue.
Why is it that people, worn out with the toils and miseries of city life, betake themselves to the country every year, to seek in the quietness of nature that for which they would have sought in vain amid the customary restraints of city life ? It is because the country, inasmuch as it is agreeable to their physical consitution, affords them those means of enjoyment, Which they could not find elsewhere.
The pleasure which a person finds in roving the fields and climbing the hillsides is the most effective, because the most lasting. How agreeable must be the change, from the hot, and too often dirty streets, to the open fields of a charming country—fields covered with blooming clover, and the thousand and one different kinds of flowers that grow no where else. How invigorating is the fresh balmy air, wafted from the green meadows and the silver-capped hillsides! How sweet it is to rove in the beautiful and enchanting shady dells, or in the gay and silent groves! What can excel all these places, these rural objects in beauty or appearance ? Nothing is wanting to them, either in form, function, or constitution. Nothing is left to chance or accident. The flowers that bedeck the fields have every shape and color, from the chaliced cup of the pure white lily of the valley, to the deep colored “ Dahlia ” or delicate rose. Who, in fact, could not be happy among so agreeable surroundings ?
And to the lover of study, what are the advantages accruing from country life ? He is away from the noise and bustle of the city, which most assuredly are great impediments to a student’s progress. He is in peace and quietness, and the train of his ideas is never interrupted. He is perfectly contented. He delights in pondering over his books under the deep shade of some towering oak, or by the side of some purling stream that wanders on to the mighty deep. These are the bright, happy days of his youth;—these are the days that he will ever hold in fond remembrance; and in after life, when it is perhaps his fate to be confined by business to the limits of a city, he will recall with pleasure the many, many pleasant days of his youth, and especially those that it was his good fortune to spend in the country.
3
X
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.^	419
Among the various pastimes of rural life, I will mention those only that, for the most part, take place on the anniversary of the birth of Washington. Imagine some large old-fashioned country house, with an old man whose locks are silvered by age, standing in the doorway, welcoming his Children and grandchildren, as they come together to celebrate the natal day of the immortal Washington. In a short time everything is in readiness for the feast. Mince-pies, and such things as are always relished by country folks, abound. All gather around the table, richly laden with everything sweet and delicious, and the aged man himself, with bowed head, asks the blessing of God upon the gifts of His bounty. After this, all set to work with a will to do'justice to the good things before them; good natured jokes are indulged in by the young folks, while their elders more serious, relate the tales of bygone days. The healths of the old folks are then drank; toasts are next in order, and everything passess off quietly and pleasantly. This done, all go to different parts of the house and engage in various games of a lively, nature. Thus the day passes; and as the day is passed, so is the evening. Every thing done in simplicity—in that true and engaging way of doing things which are altogether wanting in a city. The evening over, all, pleased and happy, prepare to retire to their respective homes; and after the parting words are spoken the day Is ended. Is this the good nature and feeling that pervades the minds of city folks after a night of revelry and apparent pleasure? No: for although the pleasure which the city affords may be of a very agreeable nature, still there is always, or for the most part, something connected with them that renders them injurious, if not dangerous. Such then is the difference between country and city life; in the one, people enjoy life as God desires them to enjoy it; in the other, at least for the most part, as He does not desire them. It is true the country people may not be as polished or refined as those in the cities, but they are better men in the true sense of the word. Give me the country for my home, let me be where I can see the ever changing beauties of nature, and where I can betimes look up to and adore Nature’s God in peace, quietness and contentment.	F. R.
1
Art, Music and Literature.
—A bronze equestrian statue of Napoleon III is to be erected at Milan.
—Smirkins looked at the painting of a pig, and pleasantly asked: “ Whom is that pigment for.”
—The St. Louis Art Museum now building, is to cost $200,000. An ample endowment has been guaranteed.
—Prof. Palmer’s new translation of the Koran will appear about Eister, in the series of “ Sacred Books of the East.”
—The statues of Froc-Robert of Paris take decidedly the lead; they are the favorites, and promise fairly to outrun the once famous Munich statues.
—Joseph E. Temple has given $50,000 to the Philadelphia Academy of Fine Arts, the interest to be expended for pictures, prizes, and ordinary expenses.
—Dr. McGlynn’s “ Pictorial Lives of the Saints ” is the most popular book that has been published in years. The demand is continually increasing as it becomes known.
—There are 1,700 female authors in France. About 1,000 writers out of 1,700 write novels or stories for the young, while 200 are poets, and 150 devote themselves to educational works.
—A History of Boston, with Mr. Justin Winsor, Rev. Edward E. Hale, Dr. Samuel A. Green, John Boyle O’Reilly, and others, for contributors, is under way, to make four large octavo volumes.
—The two towers of the Cologne Cathedral, which is now nearly completed after centuries of work, are the highest in the world. They are 524 feet, 11 inches, and 415 feet, 1 inch high, respectively.
—His Holiness, Pope Leo XIII issued on the 18th of January—the greatest Roman Anniversary, viz., of the Accession of St. Peter to the Papal See—the Original Decree, de Operaibus 8. Thoma Aquinatis.
—On the 3d inst. John Boyle O’Reilly lectured on “Illustrious Irishmen,” in Fitchburg, Mass. On the 13th he delivered the same lecture in Greenfield, Mass., and on the 17th will deliver it again in New York.
—The Abbe Noirot who, as Professor of Philosophy at Lyons, was the master of Ozanam and other eminent men, and the friend of Lamennais, Lacordaire, and Montalambert, died on Saturday Jan. 24, in Paris, at the age of 86.
—The Boston Art Club has already $30,000 in hand, and $60,000 additional available. A site tor their building is proposed at the corner of Newbury and Darmouth streets; another in the rear of Trinity Church, on St. James’ Avenue.
—Mr. Longfellow is said to write easily, but very slowly, weighing every word before jotting it down in lead pencil. There is hardly an erasure in his manuscript, but when his work returns to him in proof, hardly anything of its original form is left.
—The Earl of Dunmore is coming to give orchestral concerts in New York, Boston and Philadelphia. He has also composed an opera, “ Crescencia,” which he wishes to bring out in this country. It has been heard in Liverpool.
—Gil-Perez, who had no equal on the Paris stage in personating idiots and lunatics, has ended his career by himself becoming insane. In the same way, the no less celebrated Lassague passed, a few years since, from simulated to real idiocy.
—A new edition of the Angelic Doctor, St. Thomas’ Summa Theologica, has been published in Paris. It is fully described in the new list of Latin books; as also Berardi’s “De Recidivis et Occasionaris,” a book that has attracted quite unusual attention.
—Wendell Phillips delivered a lecture on Sunday evening, March 7, at the Chelsea Academy of Music, on the “ Irish Question,” under the auspices of the Chelsea Catholic Literary Union, the entire proceeds to be devoted to the relief of the suffering poor of Ireland.
—Haworth Church, which Charlotte Bronte and her family attended, has been utterly destroyed,—the square western tower only having been allowed to remain,—in order to allow the erection of a new edifice “ in the perpendicular style.” The cost of the new work is to be about $50,000.
—At the twenty-seventh anniversary of an organization in New Haven, known as the L. S. O., Prof. B. Jepson, the well-known instructor of music in the public schools of that city, was the recipient of an elegant conductor’s baton, in recognition of the grand work he has achieved.
—M. de Liesville has bequeathed to the French Government a magnificent collection of works of art, weapons, instruments, furniture, pottery, etc., and ot autographs and historical documents of the revolutionary epoch. It will probably form the nucleus of the Museum of the Revolution to be established at Versailles.
—A little syndicate, consisting of Marchionesses, Duchesses, Countesses, and ‘veteran ladies” with unlimited resources, has been formed to buy in whatever articles Monsignor Capel desires to retain out of the contents of the Scarsdale and Cedar villas at Kensington, England, now offered for sale, especially the many curious gifts presented him.
—The European house of Benziger Bros, has published, as a tribute to the Jubilee of the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin, five cartoons in folio representing the paintings in the Hall of the Immaculate Conception of the Vatican by Fr. Podesti, with introductory text by Dr.
420
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
A. Kuhn, O. 8. B. This classic collection costs only $1.90.
—“L’Appressamento della Morte.” (The Approach of Death), a poem by Giacomo Leopardi, which, although known to be in existence, has hitherto baffled all the researches of the Italian litterateurs, has finally been lound by the poet’s friend, Prospera Viana. Leopardi is esteemed by his countrymen the greatest poet that Italy has produced since Tasso’s time.
—A literary curiosity has just been published at Amsterdam. It consists of three short stories, possessing the peculiarity that in each of them ouly one vowel is employed; in the first a, in the second e, and in the third o, according to which the stories are entitled “A Saga,” “E-Legende,” “O Sprook.” In the Dutch language only would such a teat be possible.
—The latest attractions of Berlin are the Pergamus marbles, which have just been brought from Asia Minor. A Prussian engineer, it appears, found traces of sculpture in certain old walls near Pergamus which the Turks had plastered with mud and lime. He informed his Government of the fact, and they, after due investigation, purchased the walls for about $10,000.
,t—A monument to the memory of Chopin has been erected at Varsovia. It consists of a niche of white marble, in which is placed a bust of the composer, of the same material. Beneath is this inscription: “Erected to the memory of Frederick Chopin, by his compatriots. He was born at Wolga-Zelazowa, the 2d of March, 1809, and died in Paris, the 17th of October, 1849.”
—Trautz-Bauzonnet, the great bookbinder of modern times, recently died at Paris. He worked only tor the very first amateurs, and his finest bindings in mosaic compartments of colored morocco cost enormous prices: 1,000 f., 2,000 f., and 3,000 f. He did not turn out more than a hundred bindings a year; he did his gilding himself, and was aided in his work by only two assistants and a woman.
Scientific Notes.
—Meerschaum is^not petrified “ sea-foam,” as its name implies, but is a composition of silica, magnesia, and water.
—A telegram from Berne, Switzerland, dated Feb. 29th, stated that the work of piercing Mount St. Gothard was satisfactorily completed at 9 o’clock that morning.
—Leo XIII has lately given a private audience to the well-known African explorer, Dr. Pellegrino Metteucci of Bologna, who together with Prince Paolo Borghese, is about to start on a new expedition.
—Experience has shown at the Petroleum Iron Works, Titusville, Pa., that a barrel of petroleum will generate heat sufficient tor making a ton of iron, while a ton and a quarter of coal would be required for the same result.
—Mr. David Matthews, the builder of the first locomotive ever constructed in this country, now lives in San Francisco. This engine was called “ The Best Friend of Charleston,” and was built at the West Point Foundry Works.
—Capt. R. F. Burton is now in Egypt, and is about to proceed, with a surveying party, to the gold mines which he discovered near the shores of the Gulf of Akaba. His visit is stated to be connected with a scheme for working the mines.
—A Russian explorer, Poliakow by name, has lately returned from an exploration of the Grotto of Kungur (a mountain of the Ural chain), and of Mount Ararat. Alter diligent researches he has found no trace whatever of the so-called “diluvial” man.
—A movement is on foot to erect a Roman Catholic Cathedral on the Thames embankment at a cost of a milion and a quarter of dollars. Cardinal Manning is Chairman of the Committee, the Duke of Norfolk Vice-Chairman, and the Marquises of Bute and Ripon^ Secretaries.
—It is announced that the Dutch are intent upon a third Arctic expedition with their tiny sailing schooner “ Willem Barents,” on the strength of a curious Dutch proverb
which says that “ thrice is ship right.” A citizen of Amsterdam has already offered to defray one-fifth of the expenses.
—In a letter to a Berlin journal, Dr. Siemens, the eminent telegraph engineer, contends that he was the first to divide the electric light and to utilize it for practical purposes. In proof of this he refers to his electric illumination of the Imperial Arcades of Berlin, which was achieved long before Mr. Edison’s experiments.
—Mrs. Maria Hopkins, of Sau Francisco, has a Japanese exotic called the baby plant. It is of the genus lily, four feet in height, and blossoms semi-annually. The flower is star-shaped, having five petals of a handsome brown and yellow cover. The calyx encircles and protects a tiny figure, which bears a resemblance to a nude baby, its little arms and legs outstretched, and the eyes distinctly marked. The owner paid $300 lor the plant
—About two years since, in the Island of Melos, near the spot where, over half a century ago, was found the famous statue of Venus, three more statues were discovered, evidently belonging to the golden era of Greek art. They were purchased by the Museum of Athens, but until quite recently remained unnoticed in their boxes m the cellars of the Museum. The boxes having finally been opened, the statues were pronounced most impoyant acquisitions, the largest of them being a masterpiece. Although broken in several fragments, it can be easily repaired. It represents Neptune naked to the waist, his lower limbs being covered by a mantle, the folds of which are superbly executed. Beside him is a dolphin; and the god apparently carried the traditional trident in his right hand, the only part of the statue that has not been found. It is claimed that this Neptune will be the gem of the Athens Museum. The Government, realizing the importance of the discovery, has reserved to itself the right of excavation in the locality where the three statues were found.
V

Exchanges.
—We give the King's College Record (it’s a wonder it did not take the title of Journal, with which so many college editorial boards seem so fascinated) a cordial welcome, and comply with its wish for an exchange. The Record is published monthly by the undergraduates of King’s College, Windsor, N. 8., and in general appearance resembles the majority of our college papers.
—Now, that The College Mercury puts in a regular appearance, we suppose we will be better able to keep an even temperature in our scriptorium, scissorium, or whatever it may be called. The last number of the Mercury Mas an apology for any dryness,—i. e. absence of sap—that the paper might show, as one half the editorial staff were laid up sick, being caught by the recent “ cold ” boom that swept through the country, and played especial havoc at the colleges, as we learn Irom the college press. In our opinion, there is no need of an apology tor this number of The College Mercury; we think it one of the best that we have seen.
—We have received from the Rev. J. C. Drumgoole a copy ot The Homeless Child, a very neat paper published monthly in the interests of the Mission of the Immaculate Virgin, in New York, for the Protection of Homeless and Destitute Children. The Homeless Child is handsomely illustrated, and the price of subscription is only 25 cents a year. We had, of course, heard before of the noble charity, and the self-sacrificing devotedness begotten of that charity, ot Rev. Father Drumgoole, who has, not inaptly, been termed a second St. Vincent de Paul; but we must confess that a perusal of his paper and a recapitulation in the circulars of what the 8t. Joseph’s Union has done, and is doing, for the succor of those poor human waifs, the homeless children, took us by surprise and elicited increased ■ admiration. -God has evidently blessed this labor in a wonderful manner,- and.XhQ^ood done by it will be known only on the last Great Day, when Xhe secrets of hearts will be revealed. Those who subscribe to The Homeless Child by paying 25 cents a year, become members of the 8t. Joseph’s I Union, and sharers m the merits and many spiritual privi-
1
I
4
-4 '
THE NOTBE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	421
* leges which the members enjoy. We would advise all our Catholic readers—and, for that matter, non-Catholic, too— to send on 25 cents, at once, and thus become subscribers to the paper and sharers in the work of Rev. Father Drum--r goole and his noble associates. Subscriptions should be addressed to Rev. J. C. Drumgoole, Pastor, P. O. Box 3512, New York, N. Y. •
—lite Penman's Art Journal, published monthly by D. T , Ames and B. F. Kelley at 205 Broadway, New York, for the very low price of $1 a year, is undoubtedly the handsomest and best periodical of the kind that the English language can boast of. We have no hesitation in saying that the numbers for December, January and February, now lying before us, are well worth an entire year's subscription. Besides editorials of a practical nature, The Penman’s Art Journal contains articles from several of the leading penmen and commercial teachers of the country, L among whom we may mention the names of Profs. J. W. Payson, H. Russell, B. F. Kelley, Gillis H. Burnett, L. D. Smith, H. C. Spencer, and a number of others, together with carefully edited minor articles and notes of great interest to penmen and commercial students. Even to stu-v dents in the best commercial colleges, The Penman's Art Journal will be found of such assistance as to place it beA yond price in the estimation of those who are acquainted with it. The writing-lessons and other matters of interest are finely illustrated, thus making them available for self" instruction and for the quicker advancement of those who wish to practice outside of the class-room. The pensketches by that prince of artist penmen, D. T. Ames, give fine models to those who have time and taste for such * work. As an example of the miscellaneous matter given in The Penman's Art Journal, the number for December, 1879, . has an interesting article on a case of forgery, with a fac* simile of a receipt for three hundred dollars, showing . where the word “ Eighty ” was. inserted, thus making it appear as a receipt tor “ eighty-three hundred ” instead ol three hundred dollars. The forgery was detected through •	the penmanship, by the publishers of The Penman's Art
l	Journal, who were called into court to examine the bond.
In conclusion, we heartily commend this excellent paper to all students, but especially to those in the Commercial Department, and advise them to form clubs at once T and send on their subscriptions. Address Penman's Art Journal, 205 Broadway, New York.
r	—We had set out with the intention of noticing from
time to time those of our college exchanges, or such articles in them, as we thought meritorious, but we regret to say that our good resolutions have, in a measure, fallen through—not for want of will, but for lack of time. Therefore it was that certain articles in several of our exchanges, A and notably in the Vassar Miscellany, the Oberlin lieoiew, the- University, and the University Press, and other papers, passed without deserved comment from us. Nearly every ’ issue of the Oberlin has something apropos, as lor instance, the article in a recent issue on “The Need of Christian Scientists,” by A. W. Lyon, and “ The Reign of Law,” by F. M. Lillie. It is true, as Mr. Lyon says, that theology and science can never conflict, tor both come from the '	hand of God. “ The trouble is not with science, but with
scientists; not with Christianity, but with Christians. The tendency of our age and of our modern education is not to produce men of noble and generous culture, but men p- who are mere specialists; men who are incapable of sound judgment, save in their own narrow sphere and depart-•	ment. As a consequence, wc find theologians ignoring
science, and scientists despising theology. Religious teachers apply their standards to science, and scientists, in turn, insist upon ‘seeing God with their eyes, hearing Him with their ears, and measuring spiritual things with ma* terial instruments.’ Beyond the domain of their own • favorite science they see nothing but ignorance, superstition, > and imposture.” J ust here, we feel like calling attention to some oi the principal causes of this distortion of things that of themselves can never conflict, because running parallel, > but space will not permit. In the last number of the University Press H. C. A.’s article on “ The Decline of the Debating Society,” • and an editorial on the “Duty of the College Press ” give matter for thought. “ A Criticism on 5 a Criticism,” which snuffs out the flickering light thrown on music by Peck’s Sun, is to the point. When classic
music, or the so-called “ music of the future,” is up for review, Peck had better hide his Sun under a bushel, and he himself should refrain from pecking at things he doesn’t understand. But the best article that we have seen in the 'University Press, or, for that matter, perhaps in any other college paper, is that entitled “ Excess of Opinion,” by H. J. Desmond. Mr. Desmond’s article deserves a gold medal, and its intrinsic value would enrich any paper. We saw but the second part of it, but that was enough to form an opinion of its merits, and we must say that it has rarely been our lot to see a better article come from the hand of a college boy. The paper containing the first part of Mr. Desmond’s article either did uot reach us or was misplaced. “ Church and School: The True Relation of the University,” deals with a knotty question, but does it in a masterly way. There is a manliness and a spirit of justice expressed in it that must command respect, even from those who do not agree with the opinions of the writer. We congratulate the editors of the Press on the success of their efforts in freeing themselves from the trammels both of infidelity and sectarianism. Neither should obtain a footing in a State University, and no one should go to the State University until his religious opinions are sufficiently formed and firmly enough settled to carry him safely through his course.
New Publications.
The Sacked Hearts of Jesus and Mary, Venbbated iji the Spirit of the Church and of her Saints: A Manual of Devotion, Especially Intended lor the Members of the Apostleship of Prayer. New York and Cincinnati: Fr. Pustet, London: Burnes & Oates. Dublin: H. Gill. 495 pp. 18mo. Price, $1.
This excellent manual of devotion is compiled from the German publications of the Rev. Jos. Aloysius Krebs, of the Congregation of the Most Holy Redeemer, and the highest recommendation that we can give it is, perhaps, the fact that the three books from which it is compiled went through twenty-seven editions (85,000 copies) in less than nine years. Although uot a prayer-book of the ordinary kind, it contains prayers for morning and evening, devotions for Mass, for Confession, Vespers for Sundays and nolydays, devotions before and after Holy Communion, etc., besides which are several Litanies. There are aslo special prayers from no less than fifty holy souls, canonized saints, or others, who died in the odor of sanctity. The book is well printed and bound, and we have no doubt that it will meet with an extensive circulation among devout souls.
The Brown Scapular of Mount Carmel: A Manual for the Use of Members of the Confraternity of the Scapular and the Third Order of Our Lady of Mount Carmel. By Kev. Father Pius, O. C. C., Prior of tne Carmelite Monastery at Niagara Falls, Canada.
This manual as the preface imports, is designed to give an opportunity to all wearing the Brown Scapular, or the Scapular of Our Lady of Mount Carmel, to become acquainted with the numerous and important privileges attached to it; and as “ the glory or merit of the children is also the glory or merit oi their mother, every spiritual gain of a member of the Confraternity is a victory of the Blessed Virgin.” In addition to what may be found in this little work, profitable and instructive to the laity, the Rev. Clergy are also expected to find therein all that is necessary lor the investing with the Scapular; for the instructions usually given on these occasions; the devotion to be practiced towards the Blessed Virgin; and the numerous indulgences granted by the Church to the members of the Confraternity. This manual will, then, be found useful to all good Christians, young and old, clergy and laity, and seems to supply a want long felt, a full instruction on that devotion so dear to Catholics, the Scapular of Our Lady of Mount Carmel. There is, however, v»-e, serious fault to be found with this new publication; the English is decidedly stiff, and in many places extremely poor. The matter of the work, however, is excellent, and will do much good. The little volume is neatly gotten up, and sold by Er. Pustet, Barclay St., New York, for the small sum of fifty cents.
422
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Notre Dame, March 13, 1880.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME iSCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Thirteenth year of ts existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the *avor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, §1.50 I*er Annum, Postpaid.
% Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a snscriber fails to receive the Scholastic, regularly he will confer a favor by sending ns notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In aU such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
Hon. A. Anderson, of South Bend, delivered a lecture on the evening of the 5th inst., before the Law and Commercial Departments, of the University, on the subject of “ Bills and Notes.” Mr. Anderson announced at the commencement of his lecture, that the subject which he was about to treat was one of extreme dryness—perhaps the driest of all the dry matter included in ihe term “ Law,” but the ready humor which was, now and then, mingled with the statements of barren facts, entirely expelled that fatigue, which, in spite of effort, is often produced by beginners in the lecture field. It is useless to say, that the honorable gentleman’s introductory remarks, which were an account of his first idea of “ Bills,” so riveted the attention of the audience, that what followed proved a great source of interest and information.
From a slight allusion to the ancient mode of commercial transaction, and its gradual development into the grand system which we now have, the lecturer passed to an explanation of a Bill of Exchange, carefully noting the distinction between Foreign and Inland Bills of Exchange, and also explaining the rights and liabilities of all parties connected with each kind.
He then spoke at length upon endorsements, which are likewise subject to the division of blank and special, and showed by illustrations the importance of each. He explained what was meant by an endorsement, and the relations which existed between the endorser and endorsee, and occupied some time in explaining the nature of two terms “ protest ’’ and “ acceptance.” The application of the former to Inland and-Foreign Bills. And the liabilities of the latter to all future parties.
Mr. Anderson then showed, by way of example, the
law that governs promissory notes—saying that there exexisted no material difference in it and that which governs Inland Bills. The lecturer presented the subjects < mentioned in a very explicit manner, and his natural and easy mode of expounding such themes were admired by all present. The students before whom Hon. A. Anderson delivered this interesting and instructive lecture, feel very grateful, and are persuaded that the course of lectures, now entered upon, will be of incalculable advantage to them.
—In our exchange column this week will be found a notice of that excellent illustrated monthly, The Penman's Art Journal, to which we would call special attention-This is, simply, an invaluable aid to all students—not only to those who are in the Commercial Department here, but to all who wish to excel in that useful but most abused of all arts, penmanship. Poor and unlegible handwriting is abominable; there is no excuse for it. A good system of penmanship when once acquired is never wholly lost; no matter how much the hurry of writing, such a hand will, if not always beautifully regular, at least be legible, and the legibility of writing is a matter of the greatest importance. We will leave samples of The Penman's Art Journal with the Professor of Penmanship in the Commercial Department, who, we know, will take pleasure in giving any particulars that may be desired. We have no hesitation in saying that every student in the College, and even some of those in the Minim Department, should at once subscribe to this excellent periodical, and we hope their teachers will urge the propriety of their doing so at once. We have no further interest in the paper than its excellence, which is sufficient to call forth the admiration of everyone that is not wholly indifferent to excellence. The subscription price of The Penman's Art Journd is but $1 a year—50 cents a session!	.
If physical exercise is necessary for the preservation of health and strength, so also is the proper distribution of time equally necessary for the improvement of the mind, advancement in studies, etc.; for if time is not properly distributed by young men while in college, there is ten chances to one that their improvement is slow, that their • lessons are badly .prepared, and that the amount of knowledge they have acquired at the end of any one scholastic year is but small—very small, perhaps, when compared to that which those have acquired who had a time for doing everything, and everything in its proper time.
It is not unfrequently that students are heard to complain of having too much to do—too many classes to prepare for; and all this arises from want of a method in study. The time that should be given to the preparation of one class to-day is given to another; to-morrow it is again changed, and so on, without any regard to order; so that no matter how much time those self-same individuals may have, it is all the same: they will go to class with unprepared lessons; they will come therefrom without learning much, if anything,—and all this from a want of having their time so arranged that so much of it could be devoted to the preparation of one class, so much to the preparation of another, according to the nature of each.
Again, other students may be found who will study half a dozen different branches in the short space of an hour or so, instead of confining themselves to one until it is suf-
JI
V
1
4
A
A
*<
«
N
UI
-< i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	423
ficiently known. This is another grand mistake. Two things can never he done at the same time, much less more. Ne multa discas, sed multum, is but too frequently-lost sight of by those who would climb the “hill of Science.” Some students fail to accomplish much at college because they do not take advice—because they follow their own way of thinking, and will not take direction from those of more experience—their professors, their teachers, and their elders.
It is the practice, we believe, with many students to make or form for themselves a time-table or programme, allowing to each branch of study pursued such an amount of time, and no more. In this way they learn a love of order—they have a time for everything; and the result is gratifying in the extreme—progress is made, satisfaction is given, and the amount of knowledge acquired at the end of the year—at-the time when they go forth from the college walls to face the battle of life, or to spend their vacation at home in their own families—is sufficient to satisfy the expectations of parents and guardians, as well as their own consciences.
Order, then, should be had in everything; and this habit of order and regularity can best be contracted during our college days, when we are young, and capable of receiving this impression—good in itself, and most beneficial in its results.
ri
Americans as a rule love holidays. There is no country in the world which has so many legal holidays as the United States. There are Washington’s Birthday, Decoration Day, the Fourth of July, and Thanksgiving Day,—all days on which the people are bid to observe as holily almost as the Sabbath. We doubt whether any nation in the world can be found which can show as large a number of state feast-days. It is true, in Catholic countries there are many religious leasts observed, but these are not feasts recognized by the law of the land. In the United States, then, more anniversaries and more holidays are celebrated than in any other country in the world.
Americans celebrate the Fourth of July, because of the Independence of the United States; they celebrate the twenty-second of February, inasmuch as that day is the anniversary of the birth of him who led their troops to victory; Thanksgiving day is the one on which they particularly return thanks to God for His favors; and on Decoration day, sorrow for the loved ones lost in the war is manifested.
One would think that with the great number of feasts which we now have, to augment this number would be foolishness. But not so. There is still one day which should be honored by Catholics in all parts of the world, and by Irish and American Catholics in an especial manner—and that day is St. Patrick’s Day.
As the day, honored and revered by the Irish people, the American, whether Catholic or Protestant, should celebrate it, because the people of the down-trodden Isle have, from the dawn of Independence to this day, been faithful in their love for the young Republic, and have materially aided her by their labors. In truth, what will the United States, in a few years, be, if not a new Ireland ? Americans, then, to their long list of feasts ■ should add that of St. Patrick’s Day, that feast so dear to every Irish heart.
But this day should be honored not by Irish and by Americans alone. All the nations of the earth have been
benefitted by St. Patrick. When England reflects that to the Irish priests it now owes its numerous conversions, its learned hierarchy, and devoted clergy, that nation, persecutor, as she is, should celebrate the feast-day of him who first brought Christianity to the West of Europe. France, that nation so favored by God and so neglectful of His favors, owes to the spiritual children of St. Patrick a debt which she can never pay. On every battle-field of Europe, in which the French armies have taken part, the Irishman has bled in the cause of France. Germany, too, owes a debt of gratitude to the Emerald Isle. Irish saints planted the faith along the Rhine, and Irish monks introduced monasticism among the mountains and forests of Fatherland. In a word, all nations owe a debt of gratitude to Ireland’s Patron Saint.
Among the spiritual children of this glorions Saint of God has the faith been ever kept with a constancy known among no other people. They have been a nation of missionaries spreading the truths of the Gospel throughout the world. Wherever the foot of the European has trod, there may the Irishman be found,—among the peaks of the Andes, the Himalayas, and the Rocky Mountains, on the far off isles of the Pacific, on the savannas of South America, and in the jungles of Africa—there may the Irishman be found, the civilizer of mau and the bearer of Gospel truths.
With every Irishman, then, can the Catholics of all countries exclaim on the seventeenth of March “Erin Go Bragh!”
—The following beautiful letter of Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior General, C. S. C., to the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association, in the Minim Department of the University, explains itself:
Paris, Feb. 19th, 1880.
Mx Dear Childkbn:—I received this noon your beautiful ' letter of the 4th inst. with the flue cards of your famous Exhibition. What a pity, indeed, the Professors of the University are so slow in constructing the international Telephone you speak of, between Notre Dame and our little village here I I would have been so glad, so eager, and so proud to listen to every word of that brilliant soiree. But, of course, I take it for granted, that it was an unprecedented treat at Notre Dame. I do not wonder in the least, at the public rapture of the large assembly, nor at the encoring ot the audience, no more than I do at Father Walsh’s unfeigned and loud praises upon your semi-annual examination, and that of your former companions, now among the Juniors. All this shows one thing only, viz.: that you met with fair appreciative and cultivated critics, who did you justice. Your praise especially consists in the eforts you had made to deserve such encomiums.
You seem to be somewhat surprised at my apparent long silence. I was on the point of formulating the same reproach; but what is quite natural to your youthful class would be preposterous in a man whose travels would have carried him seven times around the globe at the equator. Our correspondence is a little longer in time and farther in space, than it was last October; but some of your charming little messages may have been mislayed on the road, to my great regret, while one or another of my cumbrous packages may have fallen heavily to the ground, long ere it reached its destinatian. However, to forget you is impossible. The following words of the Gospel, read at Mass this morning, would be my condemnation: “ Lord have pity on me, for my daughter is sick.” I do not suffer much at present, but enjoy a great deal on your account; and your mothers, I am sure, could say the same.
You wish me to say when I intend to go home. I think I
424
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
will pack up just when I hear that you are fifty first-rate students,—the cream of the University, the pride of your fathers, and the joy of your mothers. Send me word then, and I start Your friend,
E. Sobin, C. S. C.
Personal.
—J. H. Keenan, (commercial), ’67, is conducting a large clothing establishment for a New York firm in Dubuque, Iowa.
—James H. Knight, of ’77, is studying for the priesthood at Georgetown College, D. 0.
—Henry Dehner, of ’75, is Justice of the Peace, in Cascade, Iowa, and by all accounts is doing well.
—Among the visitors for the past week were, Mr. Tour-tilotte and Mr. Coghitn, Toledo, Ohio; Mr. and Mrs. Hennock, Laporte, Ind. '
—F. W. Kavanaugh, who attended class here in ’78, is in the law office of J. H. Shields, Dubuque, Iowa, where he intends to prepare himself for that protession.
—J. Dougherty (Law), of ’79 and who worked so gallantly on the memorable 23rd of April last, is one of the most prominent lawyers of Rockwell, Iowa, and is talked of as a candidate for.city Attorney at the next elections.
—On the 8th inst., Very Rev. Alexander Marine, C. S. C., pastor of the Church ot the Sacred Heart of Jesus, New Orleans, La., and Superior ot the Congregation of the Holy Cross in the South, celebrated his Silver Jubilee, or the 25th anniversary of his ordination.
—We are glad to learn that Mr. John English, Jr., of Columbus, Ohio, who has been very low with congestion oi the lungs,<is gradually recovering his health. Mr. English is an old student of Notre Dame, and -paid us a visit on the opening of the second session.
—Rev. M. F. Noll, the popular and energetic rector of St. Vincent’s Church, Elkhart, Ind., paid a visit to Notre Dame during the week. We were much pleased to learn that he had lately secured for his already extensive museum of numismatical and artistic curiosities a beautiful steel-plate engraving of one of the “ old masters.”
—Rev. Christopher Kelly, C. S. C., will deliver a lecture on St. Patrick’s Day, in tne Church of the Imm.icu late Conception, Springfield, Ill., the proceeds of which, we believe, are to go to the support ot the schools of the parish. The Rev. lecturer’s theme, will of course, be the Great Apostle of Ireland, and we have no hesitation in gauranteeing a grand treat to all who may have the good fortune to be present.
—The genial and deservedly popular chaplain of the St. Joseph’s Farm, paid a flying visit to the College on Wednesday last, and was, useless to say, warmly greeted by his hosts ot friends and well-wishers. No one will be surprised to learn that before his return to his mission he had left a liberal donation in the hands of the treasurer for the Irish relief fund- Father Ford is evidently determined that when his epitaph is written, it shall include that greatest of all eulogiums, translit benefaciendd.
Local Items.
—Cold nights and pleasant days, are now in order.
—The plastering of the College-extension is completed.
—Competitions next week will be in the* Collegiate
Course. "	-	'	" "
—The members of the Surveying Class were out, as usual, on last Wednesday.
—The frescoing of the Senior refectory is being done by Prof. Ackermann.
—Our weather prophet doesn’t know at present which is the “ruling wind.”
—Mr. Condon, the barber, is well patronized by the students on Wednesdays.	•
—The grounds around the Presbytery are undergoing important improvements.
—Now that the Baseball Clubs are organized we may expect some fine playing soon.	•
The Juniors have got the start of the Seniors in the organizing of their Baseball Clubs.
—Some important repairs have lately been made on the refectory of the Professed House.
—Two of the Seniors make their debut this week,—they appear for the first time in print.
—“I shall dwell no longer on this point,” said the professor, as he sat down on an upturned carpet tack.
—Tne Chapel of the Portiuncula is at present undergoing repairs. We believe it is also to be somewhat enlarged.
—It was not “ wood-man spare the tree,” but tree spare the wood-man, on last Thursday morning—we don’t wish to go further.
—A. large number of Juniors, accompanied by Bro. Lawrence, took a long walk through the surrounding country on Wednesday last.	‘
—The opening of the St. Cecilian’s Society-room is about to take place soon, after which a short description of it will appear in the Scholastic.
—Some of the grand old trees in front of the College had so be removed this week, on account of their too close proximity to the main building.
—What, if an irresistible force should encounter an immovable body? The answer came promptly, “Better climb a tree.’’ Au apt student!
—Vespers to-morrow are of the Common of a Confessor, Bishop, page 48 of the Vesperal, with a commemoration oi the fifth Sunday of Lent. Afissa de Angelis will be suug.
—Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. 8. C., Vice-President of the University, will, on tne 17th, deliver the customary lecture on St. Patrick, in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart.
—A Soph in the French class thus renders into English “ Le jours decroissent le'ntement.” “ The days decrease Lentward.” That Soph’s mental vision evidently dwells not a little on the. Lenten fast.
—A. magnificent stereopanoptican exhibition of Views local and foreign, under me auspices of the societies of the Junior Departments, was given last Thursday evening in Science Hall, by Rev. Father Zahm.
—Freshie translates “ .Non, Madame', jai bein froid,''— “ No, Madam, I have been a fraud,” and “ Son habit est tres beau ”—“ His habit is to have three beaus,” Precocious Freshie’. What’s to become of him ?
—R. C. Fleming of Henderson, Ky., received the best bulletin in the Junior Department, lor the month of Feb-uary; M. J. Burns of Ada, Alien., second best, and E. 0. Ornck, of Canton, Miss., received the third best bulletin. ■
—The Columbians are determined to give a fine exhibition on the eve of the seventeenth. Tney are at present busily preparing themselves, and we have no doubt that their acting will come up to, if not surpass, that done by their predecessors on similar occasions.
—Last Sunday, being Ltstare Sunday, Solemn High Mass was celebrated in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, Rev. L. J. L’Etourneau, C. S. C., being celebrant. At this Mass Rev. J. A. O’Connell, C. 8. C., delivered a most instructive discourse on the difficult subject of “ Reason and Faith.”
—We give in-this week’s issue of the Scholastic a por-tionof Lhe programme of the Entertainment to be given at JJqtre Dame op the eve of the seventeenth; as we could not obtain the whole of it from the President of the Associa-iion7 by whom the Entertainment is to be given, at the time of going to press.
—The' 25th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philoma-thean Association took place March 9ih. Readings were given at this meeting by W.J. McCarthy, J. Weitzel, and C. Tinley. Public leaders for the ensuing week are: J. A. Gibbous, A. Rielz, E. Otis, F. Dever, F. Quiiin, W. J. McCarthy, E. Sugg, and F. Guthrie.	’
—The 21st regular meeting of the Phiiopatrian Society
7
the noTre dame scholastic.	425
was held March 7th. At this meeting Masters Hierb and Pomy were elected members. Readings were given by Masters G. Rhodius, L. Coghlin, A. Coghlin, W. Start, H. Devitt, 0. Farrelly, J. Gabel, N. Nelson, J. Kelly, S. Dering, F. Becker, P. Fletcher, H. Foote, J. Larkin, and W. Cleary.
—At a meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary, held Sunday evening, March 7th, the following gentlemen were unanimously elected members: G. W. Clarke, D. Danahey, J. Solon, W. Ryan, J. Noonan, D. Harrington, F. Brennan, M. Falvey, R. and C. Johnson, F. Zein, W. Riordan, J. O’Reilly, J. McNamara, J. A McIntyre, and J. D. McRae.
—The 14th regular meeting of the the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary’ was held last Sunday eve, March 7th, at which Very Rev. Father Granger, the beloved Director of the Association, was present. He gave an entertaining instruction on the “ Guardian Angels;” and promised to assist the Society in replacing their library which was totally destroyed by the lire last April. 'Servers for to-morrow were appointed.
—The man that reads aloud in company, without being asked, may well be considered one of the greatest bores on the face of the earth, in the waters under the earth, or any where else; but he that will thrust himself in upon his fellow-mortal, at his busiest moment, and almost pester the life out of him by his dry and nonsensical gibberish, is not one of the greatest bores on the face of the earth, or under the earth, but the greatest.
—The beautiful play of the “ Corsican Brothers ” will be brought on the boards of Washington Hall on the eve of the 17th, and will be complimentary to Rev. Patrick W- Condon, C. S 0., the beloved Prefect of Discipline of the University. The play will be produced by the Columbian Dramatic Association, of whicn Prof. J. F. Edwards is the efficient President, and under whose guidance we may expect something good, very good. ■
—The 16th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held Tuesday evening, Maren 4th. Masters W. Hanavin, H. Kitz, A. Campau, and T. Van Mourick delivered declamations, G. Woodson sung a new and popular song; J. Courtney declaimed “ Death of Leonidas ”; Masters Snee, Henry, and Knight, sang a pleasing little song; Masters J. Chaves, after fulfilling the the necessary conditions, was unanimously elected to membership.
—In our Scientific Notes this week the term “meerschaum ” is defined as not being petrified “ sea foam,” as the name implies, but a composition of silica, magnesia, and water. Well, we think that many of the “mere shams ” that we often meet with are, at all events, a frothy set of fellows—whether the Irotn comes from the sea or not, we can’t say; instead of silicia, they are stocked with a liberal supply of brass,—but the magnesia ought to be there, if it isn’t.
—The Active Baseball Club of the Junior Department is composed of the following members: Bro. Leander, O. 8. C., Director; R. O’Connor, Captain; F. Phillips, Secretary; F. Glade, Tieasurer; A. Rietz, Field Captain. Field positions: R. O’Connor, catcher; F. Dever, pitcher; M. Buller, short-stop; A Rieiz, 1st base; F. Flade, 2d base; F. Kleine, fid base; J. Scanlan, left-field; F. Phillips, centre-field; P.Fletcher, right-field; W. Rietz, scorer; Messrs. Manning and Weitzel substitutes.
—A reorganization of the Mutual Baseball Club in the Junior Department took place last Wednesday, resulting as follows: Bro. Leander 0. S. C., Director; A. S. Rock, Captain; J. McCarthy, Secretary; M. J. Burns, Treasurer; F. Schied, field-captain; E. Sugg, scorer. The positions the members occupy in the field are as follows: A. Rock, catcher; J. M. McCarthy, F. Scheid, short-stop; A. Hellebusch, 1st base; J. Gibbons, 2d base; M. J. Burns, fid base; A Bodine, left-field; J. Browne, centre-field J. Seeger, right-field; and J. P. O’Neill, substitute.
/ —The following donation of books have been recently made to the N otre Dame College Library, by Prof. M. A J. Baasen, of ‘64, who is so favorably remembered here both as an able teacher and perfect gentleman, and at present an esteemed citizen of Milwaukee. The Holy Bible; The Old
and New Testaments, translated from the Latin Vulgate; Operum Omnium Sancti Bernardi Meiulla; The Ninth Census of the United States; Statistics of Population; Anthon’s Latin-English and English-Latin Dictionary; Compendum Philosophise ad Usum Seminariorum—Tomus Primus; Compendium Theologi® Moralis—Tomus Primus; The Book of Oratory; The Deaf Mute, an Historical Drama in Four Acts, translated from the German; Mitchell’s Ancient Atlas of Classical and Ancient Geography; Mitchell’s New School Atlas; etc., etc. Prof. Baasen has the grateful thanks of the Librarian for this valuable donation.
—We have received a copy of Maurice F. Egan’s charming little book of Preludes. The author is a graduate of Notre Dame University, and the work is published to aid in rebuilding the University, which was burned last year. The book consists of sonnets and mythological songs, in which one can trace the work of a hand that is guided by no inferior muse. Take as an example the following from his beautiful sonnet entitled “Fra Angelico”:
“ Art is true art, when art to God is true, And only then: to copy Nature’s work
Without the chains that run the whole world through Gives us the eye without the lights that lurk,
In its clear depths ; no soul, no truth is there.
Oh, praise your Rubens and his fleshly brush!
Oh, love your Titian and his carnal air!
Give me the trilling of a pure-toned thrush, And take your crimson parrots. Artist-Saint;
O Fra Angelico, your brush was dyed
In hues of opal, not in vulgar paint.”
His Mythological songs are superior to his sonnets, and possess a certain naturalness which renders them very pleasing.—Amherst Student.
—The Class of Botany profited by the recreation of last Saturday, in taking their first excursion to the abode of flowers—the woods and dells. Although so extremely early in the season, and having only a few hours at their disposal, the class was certain of success. The afternoon was pleasant, but not anything too warm. The director of the party, knowing well the haunts of the wild flowers around Notre Dame, took a bee-liue for the expected flowerbeds, and the reward of his efforts was the rinding of two favorites—the cardamine rhomboidea and hepatica triloba. The former occupied the attention of the class for nearly an hour. But it was thoroughly examined aud nothing was left unexplained—all the parts were minutely described. For the study of the minute parts of the flower, a simple microscope was used. One who has ever taken part in any of these botanical excursions, can understand their attendant enjoyment. Every spot where flowers grow has connected with it a history—something in reference to the classes of Botany of former years. In one place, the very log of wood where Mr. N. Mooney tasted lor the first lime a piece of jack in the pulpit; in another, the murmuring brooklet, and the very spot where Dr. O’Grady of New Jersey, practiced his first lessons of Anatomy, by the dissection of some frogs, snukes, toads, etc. Again, we come to the place where Mr. B. Euans, now Dr. Euans, of Watseka, 111., determined his first flower, in company with H. L. Dehner, B. L., both of ’76; in this place 0. Oito, W. Ball, N. Mooney, and H. Cassidy received the first practical hints in the analysis of flowers in ’77; and so we might go on for an indefinite length. The first flower being determined, the class walked towards the St. Joe River—a river that presents as beautiful scenes as may be found anywhere. But soon the word was given to start and disperse in search for another flower. The class started and soon Mr. R. Anderson returned with a full open hepatica triloba. The class now returned to the College, after enjoying a most pleasant afteruoon in searching for those liny creatures—wild flowers.
—The following is the programme of the Entertainment to be given by the members of the Columbian Dramatic Association, in Wasiiiugtou Hall, Tuesday evening, March the 16th, in honor of -Ireland’s Patron Saint, and Complimentary to Rev. Patrick W. Condon, Prefect of Discipline at Notre Dame:
Music—“St Patrick’s Day.”..............N. D. U. C. Band
Address..........................................  '
’5

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
/ t	-	. 1 ’ ‘'	i	*	'	-
Oration........................................T.	W. Simms
Overture.........................................Orchestra
Class Honors.
THE CORSICAN BROTHERS:
A DRAMA IN THREE ACTS.
Dramatis Persona. '
Gamblers
M. Louis deiFranchi... 1 T . Rrnthers J • -George Donnelly M. Patricio dei Franchi f 1 Wln Brotners }.Harry Simms Signor Savilio dei Franchi (Father of the Twins).. .Albert Zahm M. de Chateau Reynard (Parisian Rend)......Charles Hagan M. Alfred Meynard..........................James Delaney
Le Baron Montgiron.......................William Connelly
Le Baron Martilli..........................Thomas Conlan
M. Beauchamp.......].................[..Thomas Cavanagh
M. de Veau.........I	onmhicrR J........Frank Reeves
•M. Favrolles......f	Gamblers 4.........Sydney Smith
M..................J.................(........Frank Bell
Jules de Lesparre (A Young Count)..........Hector Dulaney
Antonio Sanola (Judge).....................William Wathan
Griffo........1	DnmeqfwR	i ...-Joseph Smith
Sancho........I	domestics	j ...Frank Kensilla
Bois-sec (A Wood-cutter)...................Robert O’Brien
Orlando.......1	PpaqantK ‘ ( ....HughDeehan
Colonna.......J	feasants ■( .....CharlesCaren
Domino.....................................Frank Clarke
Tomaso (Coachman)............................. .Jacob Rietz
Francois (Valet de Chambre)................Charles Zarley
M. Bellmonte...............................William Jones
M. Formant...............................Warren Schofield
M. Courcelles.................................M. Falvey
Surgeon.......................................M. English
Villagers, Masqueraders, etc.
Roll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. M. Anderson, R. C. Adams, J. B. Berteling, A. J. Burger, M. T. Burns, F. W. Bloom, F. Brennon, F. M. Bell, B. Casey, J. Casey, T. F. Conlan, W. Connolly, G. E. Clarke, F. Clarke, D. Donahoe, J. Dempsey, J. Delaney, H. J. Delaney G. Don. nelly, H. Deehan, A. Dobson, M. English, E. Fogarty, E. Gooley, C. L. Hogan, D. Harrington, G. Harris, W. Hamilton, R. C. Johnson, C. Johnson, J. Kenney, C. Karens,F. Kinsella, J. Kurz, P. Larkin, R. Lanahan, E. Lynch, F. Lynch, J. McGrath, W. McGorrisk, E. McGorrisk, J. McNamara, E. Murphy, P. McCormick, C. Moore, J. McIntyre, W. McAtee, M. Maloney, J. Noonan, H. Noble, I. Newton, R. C. O’Brien, J. Osher, G. Pike, L. N. Proctor, W. Ryan, F. Reeve, T. W. Simms, H. Simms, J. Solon, R. Shea, L. Stitzel, J. Smith, F. C. Smith, L. Smith, C. B. Van Dusen, F. Wall, H. Wathen, A. Zahm, T. Zeien.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. W. Ayres, J. Brown, C. Brinkman, A. Burger, A. Burmeister, A. Bodine, F. Becker, M. Burns, M. Butler, V. Butler, G. C. Castanedo, J. V. Cabel, F. L. Carter, A. A. Caren, E. A. Croar-kin, A. M. Coghlin, L. W. Coghlin, E. A. Conyne, W. 8. Cleary, J. Coleman, J. W. Devitt, H. F. Devitt, S. T. Dering, F. T. Dever, J. E. Davis, G. W. De Haven, T. F. Flynn, R. E. Flemming, C. G. Foster, H. G. Foote, P. J. Fletcher, J. J. Gordon, F. Grever, J. Guthrie, J. A. Gibbons, F. Glade, H. G. Guynn, E. H. Gaines, E. J. Gallagher, F. W. Greenewald, A. C. Hierb, A. J. Hintze, J. A. Hermann, A. F. Hellebusch, J. T. Homan, F. R. Johnson, P. A. Joyce, J. M. Kelly, F. A. Kleine, J. W. Kuhn, L. S. Keen, R. L. Le Bourgeois, J. A. Larkin, 8. Livingston, F. McPhillips, C. J. McDermott, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, J. E. McCarthy, A. 8. Manning, P. Nelson, N. J. Nelson, E. C. Orrick, R. E. O’Connor, J. P. O’Neill, E. A. Otis, A. G. Payro, E. Phillips, R. M. Parrett, F. A. Quinn, G. J. Quinn, C. J. Roberts, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, C. F. Rietz, G. J. Rhodius, P. H. Rasche, J. Ruppe, H. Rose, C. Rose, A. 8. Rock, R. Semmes, J. A. Simms, J. K. Schobey, A. P. Perley, E. G. Sugg, J. See ger, J. W. Start, J. M. Scanlan,1.F. C. Sheid, C. Schneider, C' A. Tinley, C. H. Thiele, W. M. Thompson, M. A. Vedder, W. T* Weny, B. A. Zekind, F. Zeis.	.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
J. Courtney, D. G. Taylor, G. P. Van Mourick, A. Van Mourick, W. H. Hanavin, G. E. Tourtillotte, J. Campau, F. Mattes, H. P. Dunn, C. C. Echlin, H. C. Snee, C. E. Droste, W. Olds, J. S. Chaves, A. A. Molander, J. E. Johnson, A. F. Schmuckle, J. R. Bender, J. A. Kelly, H. J. Ackerman, J. A. Dwenger, W. V. O’Malley, L. J. Young, E. C. Campan, E. L. Oatman, E. H. Bourdon, C. Young,
[In the following list are the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
J. McNamara, W. McAtee, R. Lanham, T. Kavanagh, R. Johnson, C. Johnson, E. Gooley, C.Whalen, P. Shea, J.Solon, W. Ryan P. McCormick, E. McGorrisk, R. Keenan, M. Falvey, J. Dempsey, F. Bell F. Brennan, B. Casey, J. Casey, M. English. A. Lent, J. Brice, J. Smith, C. Tinley, J. Scanlan, J. E. McCarthy, R. Fleming, R. Semmes, C. Rietz. P. Joyce. J. Davis, A, Burger, C. Brinkman, F. Phillips, a. Rietz, W. Rietz,
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
D. G. Taylor, J. M. Courtney, J. 8. Courtney, E. A. Howard, J. J. Henry, F. Mattes, G. Woodson, H. C. Snee, G. E. Tour-tillotte, A. Van Mourick, G. P. Van Mourick, J. A. Campau, G. C. Knighton, J. W. Burmeister, H. Kitz, C. C. Echlin, H. P. Dunn, C. E. Droste, W. H. Hanavin, A. A. Molander, F. B. Farrelly, J. C. Chaves, J.R. Bender, W. V. O’Malley J. A. Kelley, J. H. Dwenger, H. J. Ackerman, E. N. O’Donnell, E. C. Campau, E. L. Oatman, J. E. Johnson.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions which are held monthly—Director of Studies.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—W. Cleary, A. Mergentheim, L. 8. Keena, N. Weny, E. Conyne, J. Scanlan. Grammar—F. Kinsella, J. Guthrie, J. Solon, M. English, W. Ryan, C. B. Van Dusen, F. Bell, G. Pike; Arithmetic—R. Fleming, H, J. Delaney; Geography and History—M. English, J. Solon, G. Castanedo, P. Joyce; Book-keeping—(no report handed in); Penmanship—F. Phillips, W. Rietz.	'
The name of A. Burmeister was inadvertently omitted from the List of Excellence, for Arithmetic, last week.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Rev. Father Zahm, of the University, offered the Holy Sacrifice in the Chapel of Loretto, on Monday.
—An instructive and beautiful sermon on “The Holy Eucharist” was preached by the Rev. Chaplain on Sunday at High Mass.
—At the regular meeting of the Association of the Children of Mary, an instruction ou “ Devotion to.St. Joseph,” was given, and practices appropriate to the month of March were recommended.
—At the regular meeting in the Junior Department, the reading was “ The Baby’s Complaint,” Mrs. Parton, by Ellen Lloyd; nDie vier Bruder J' read by Mary Duncan; “ Trat de Volitesse du czar Vienne ” par Saint Simon, by Celestine Lemonty.	•
—Visitors: Mrs. Cleary, Miss Cleary, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Mr.and Mrs. Law, New York City; Miss Lyons, Kalamazoo, Mich.; Mr. Howard, Mrs. Ulhe, Chicago, ill.; Mr. Engel, Goshen, Ind.; Mrs. Rohrbuck, Peoria, Ill.; Mrs. Work, Mrs. Mosbaugh, Mishawakee, Ind.; Miss Ball, Lafayette; Mr. C. D. Danaher, Ludington, Mich.
—A reception on Wednesday evening was given by the First Seniors. The Graduates were received. Time passed very agreeably. Some beautiful instrumental pieces were rendered on the piano, and harmonious voices blended in sweet song. In the course of the evening, the essays prepared for the occasion were read: “ Epistolary Correspondence,” by the First Seniors, read by Miss Cav-enor, and “ Criticism, its Province and Utility,” by the Graduates, read by Miss Ewing.
—The reading at the regular meeting of the Christian
THE Nbt^E DAMk SCHOLAStid
4#
Art Society embraced an account of French and English artists from the sixteenth century, up to the present. Instead of the mottoes, or literary items given by the members of the literary societies, short selectionis were read. “ Little Titian’s Palette,” by M. T. Preston, was the choice of this meeting.
—At the regular Academic reunion the reading was “ St. Thomas of Aquinas ”—” S. L. E.” in the Ave Maria—by Miss Wall “ Der Loewe in F'orenz," read by Miss Salomon; La rencontre du Samedi," {Extracts du Hosier de Maria), by Miss I Semmes; and '* Ex>racts from Rev. G. Doane’s account of a visit to Bavaria in 1871,” by Miss McGrath. The Rev. Chaplain and Rev. Fai her Zahra gave some interesting items respecting St. Thomas.
—A very generous donation to the “ Statue Fund ” has been received from Mrs. D. W. Fisk, of Helena, Montana, Graduate of the Conservatory of Music, of the Class of ’74, ' We give a lew words from her beautiful letter: “ Your letter is so beautifully cleat and concise, that I read it with as much ease if it had been written in English. I enjoyed it very much, and even read it aloud, that I might again hear the familiar tones of the beautitul language I was accustomed to hear during the entire time of my stay in Eu-ope. I hope to be soon able to visit St. Mary’s, and then tell you all about my trip, and how greatly I enjoyed those eight months spent in Europe.......I enclose a small donation to Our Blessed Lady’s statue, and only wish the amount were ten times as great; for my heart would dictate all of this, and more too, when anything is connected with dear St. Mary’s, and its numerous good and holy’ enterprises,—all tending to the glory of God, and the honor of His Immaculate Mother.”
.	Boll of Honor.
SEMI-MONTHLY REPORT OF THE ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Killelea, Silverthorne, McGrath, Ewing, Maloney, Hambleton, Neteler, Woodin, Keenan. 1st Senior Class—Misses Ryan, Danaher, Cavenor, Rosing, Quinn, Sullivan, Ward, Hackett, Kirchner, Gordon, Farrell, A. Ewing, Cortright, Buck, Galen, Semmes. 2d Sr. Class—Misses Walsh, Winston, Claffey, Lloyd, Smith, Neu, Ussellman, O’Neil. 3d Sr. Class—Misses Fitzgerald, Dallas, Wells, S. Wathen, A. Dillon, De Lapp, Gall, Julius, Bruser, Taylor, Me Mahon, Fox, Feehan, Loeber, English, Palmer, C. Wathen, Bischoff, Donnelly. 1st Preparatory Class—Misses Zahm, Simms, Keys, Murphy, Hackley, Lancaster, Campbell, Price, Baroux, Orr. Regensburg, Greenebaum, Populorum, Van Na-mee. 2d Prep. Class—Misses Hammond, Thompson, Rasche, Reindhard, Salomon, Wall, Lemonty, S. Semmes, Leyden, Cleghorn, Engel, Horner, Halloran, Wright, Casey, Papin, Crummey, McFadden. 3d Prep. Class—Misses Brown, McCormick, Paddock, McCoy, E. Dallas, J. Wells, Garrity. Jr. Prep. Class—Misses Dunean, Legnard, C. Lancaster, E. Populorum, flinz, C. Ryan, Reutlinger, Fleming, Barlow, Gibbons, Chirhart, Carter, Paquette. 1st Jr. Class—Misses Harrison, Knighton, Hutchison, T. Ewing, Considine, Clarke, Fisk, E. Papin, Jaeger, P. Ewing. 2d Jr. Class—Miss M. Fitzgerald.
FRENCH.
1st Class—Misses Siiverthorn, Rosing, Lemontey. 2d Div.— Misses M. Dallas, I. Semmes, O’Neil, Cavenor, A. Ewing, Cortright, Neu. 2d Class—Misses M. Campbell, S. Wathen, C. Wathen, Butts, Cox.
GERMAN.
1st Class—Misses Gall, Usselmau, Julius, Regensburg, Horner, Salomon, Reinhard, Greenebaum. 2d Class—Misses Smith, McMahon, C. Hackett, Claffey, Engel, Bischoff, Krieg, Cronin, Loeber. 3d Class—1st Div.—Misses M. Fitzgerald, Ward, M. Hamilton, Quinn, Piersol, A. Dillon, Reutlinger, Ginz, Duncan, C. Campbell, Butts. 2d Div.—Misses Harrison, Fleming, Gibbons, Casey, S. Semmes,Carter, Chirhart, Moll, Hutchison, Considine, Jaeger, Joseph, Moxon, Zimmerman,.
Tablet of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, AND CORRECT ■DEPORTMENT.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Silverthorne, Killelea, McGrath, Ewing, Neteler, Sullivan, Ward, A. Ryan, Hackett, Cortright, Rosing, Buck, A. Ewing, Quinn, Galen, Farrell, Danaher, Gordin, I. Semmes, Dillon, i Otto, Mitchell, Winston. Simms, Walsh O’Neil, Loeber, Fitz- J gerald, English, Dallas, Wells, Bischoff, McMahon, C. Wathen, g. Wathen, Palmer, Taylor, Zahm, Piersol, Campbell, Keys, '
Murphy, Hackley, Lancaster, Simms, Kinzie, Dessaint, Baroux, Gavan, Davis, Regensbursr, Horner, Salomon, Thompson, Purdy, Rasche, Halloran, Wright Engel, Wurzburg, Keen a. Wall, Edelen, Moxon, Reynolds, Paddock, Brown, Krieg, Me* Coy, McCormick, par excellence. Misses Woodin, Keenan, Hambleton, Maloney, Cavenor, Kirchner, Lloyd, Neu, Usselman, Cronin, Donnelly, Gall, De Lapp, Bruser, Callinan, Julius, O’Connor, Orr, Hammond, McFadden, Reinhard, Leydon, Greenebaum, Cleghorn.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Claffey, A. Dillon, Fox,C. Campbell, Van Namee, Casey Crummey. Fishburne, McCloskey, C. Ryan, C. Lancaster, Ginz, Chirhart, Paquette, Hutcheson, Jaeger, Knighton, Strawn, Robinson, par excellence. Misses Feehan, French, Populorum, 8. Semmes, Joseph, Duncan, Reutlinger, Barlow, Legnard, E. Populorum, C. Harrison, M. Baroux.
Omitted through mistake last week from the Tablet, par excellence Junior Departent, the name of Miss Maud Casey.
St. Mary’s Academy,
{One Mile West of Notre Dame).
Under the Direction of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
The course of Studies is thorough in the Classical, Academical and Preparatory Departments.
NO EXTRA CHARGES for French or German, as those languages enter into the regular course of studies.
Conservatory of Music, under the charge of a competent corps of teachers, comprises a large music-hall, and twenty-seven seperate rooms for Harps and Pianos. A thorough course for graduation in Theory and Practice, Aesthetic Composition, large musical Library in French, German, English and Italian —four weekly lessons and daily practice, weekly lectures and recital.
jgy In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis for instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may pursue a special course.
Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical course receive the Graduating Gold Medals of the • Departments. Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in the Conservatory of Music er in the Art Department.
Prize Gold Medals awarded in the following courses:—German, French, Christian Doctrine, Painting, Drawing and Domestic Economy, in the Senior Department; and for Polite and Amiable D portment in both the Senior and Junior Departments.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule. For Catalogue, address MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Nov. 16, 1879.
	•Mail	♦DayExpress.		♦Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	INight Express.
Lv. Chicago - -. -“ Mich. City -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 90 a.tn 11 13 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “		4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 05 “ 9 50 “	515 pm. 740 “ 9 00 “ 10 28 “ 12 50 a.m 335 “	910 pm 1130 “ 12 48 am 228 “ 500 “ 8 00 “
“ Kalamazoo-“ Jackson - - • Ar. Detroit -	-_						
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.		♦Jackson Express.	t Pacific Express	tEven’g Express.
Lv. Detroit - - -“ lackeon - - -“ Kalamazoo--“ Niles - - - -“ Mich. City - - Ar. Chicago		7 C0a.m 10 20 “ 1 15 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 50 “	9 35 a. m 12 15 p. m 2 37 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		5 55p.m 4 50 a. m 6 50 “ 8 08 “ 10 35 “	9 50 pm. 1245 a.m. 243 “ 415 “ 5 30 “ 8 00 “	810 p.m 115 “ 1 38 a.m 830 “ 455 “ 730 «
TV Iles and Soxitli Bend Division.						
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p.m. “ N. Dame-8 52 “	638 “ Ar. Niles- 9 25 “	715 “			Lv. Ar.	♦GOING SOUTH. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 415 pjn. N. Dame—7 40 “ 448 “ So. Bend—745 “	4 55 “		
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. tSaturday and Sunday excepted* Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,	- G. P, St T, A„ Chicago, III.	Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich. G..L, Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind,						
428
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Three Great Cities of the West
BY THE CHICAGO & ALTON R. R
_ The entire Trains, consisting of an entirely new and superior ’ equipment of Baggage Cars, Day Cars, Smoking Cars, Palace Reclining Chair Cara and Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars, run through direct, without change, from
CHICAGO TO KANSAS CITY,
CHICAGO TO ST. LOUIS, and
ST. LOUTS TO KANSAS CITY.
So extra charge for seats in the finest Reclining Chair Palace Cars in the world.
UNION DEPOTS IN CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS AND KANSAS CITY.
No Change of Cars of apy Class between CHICAGO and KANSAS CITY, CHICAGO and ST. LOUIS, CHICAGO and PEORIA, ST. LOUIS and KANSAS CITY, ST. LOUIS and QUINCY and KEOKUK, and ST. LOUIS and PEKIN and PEORIA.
The Best and Quickest Route from Chicago to MEMPHIS, MOBILE, NEW ORLEANS AND ALL POINTS SOUTH VIA ST. LOUIS.
Tire Short Line to
Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, Nebraska, Arizona, New Mexico, California, etc.
The Great Excursion Route between the North and, South, and, to and from Kansas Lands and Colorado Health Resorts and Mining districts.
MEALS IN PALACE DINING CARS, 75 CENTS.
Fer Tickets and information apply at any coupon Ticket Office in the United States and Canada, or to
James Charlton,
General Passenger and Ticket Agent, Cor. Dearborn and Adams sts., Chicago.
W. C. Van Horne,	J. C. McMullen,
Gen’l Superintendent, ' Gen’l Manager.
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after January 1, 1880, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
2 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 230 p. m; Buffalo 8 05 p. m.
XI 05 a.m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p.m; Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
12 16 p.m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 5 40 p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 a.m.
9 12 p.m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arives at Toledo
2 40 a.m: Cleveland, 7 05 a.m; Buffalo, 110 p.m.
4 50 and 4 p.m, Way Freight.
G6ING WEST.
2 43 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a.m, Chicago 6 a.m.
5 05 a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 550 a.m, Chicago 820 a.m.
4 50 p.m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 540, ’ Chicago 8 p.m.
S 03 a m. Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 905 a.m; Chicago, 1130 a.m.
7 30 and 8 03 a.m, Way Freight.
F. C. Rave, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Supt.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
Condensed Time Table, Nov- IO, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, COR. CANAL AND MADISON STS. (West Side), ON ARRIVAL OF TRAINS FROM NORTH AND SOUTHWEST.
GOING WEST.
	No.l Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburg,	Leave Rochester,	 Alliance,	 Orrville,	 Mansfield,	 Crestline.	Arrive	11.45 p.m. 12.53 a.m. 3.10 “ 4.50 “ 7.00 “ 7.30 “	9.00 a.m. 10.12 “ 12.50 p.m. 2.26 “ 4.40 “ 5.15 “	1.50 p.m. 2.55 “ 5.35 “ 7.13 “ 9.20 “ 9.45 “	6.00 A.M. 7.45 “ 11.00 “ 12.55 p.m. 3.11 “ 3.50 “
Crestlin	Leave Forest	 Lima	 Ft. Wayne,	 Plymouth,	 Chicago,	Arrive	7.50 A.M. 9.25 “ 10.40 “ • 1.20 p.m. 3.50 « 7.00 “	5 40 P.M. 7.35 “ 9.00 “ 11.55 “ 2.46 A.M. 6.00 “	9.55 p.m. 11.25 12.25 A.M. 2.40 ‘ 4.55 “ 7.58 “	••••••••*
GOING EAST.				
	No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Atlan.Ex.	No. 8, Mail.
Chicago	Leave Plymouth,	 Ft. Wayne,	 Ki Tn a..................	9.10 p.m. 2.46 a.m. 6 55 “ 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 11.45 “	8.30 a.m. 11.48 “ 2.25 p.m. 4.20 “ 5.27 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.m. 8.55 11.30 “ 1.30A m 2.33 “ 4.05 “	• ■••••••a*
PorPAt 						
Crestline,	Arrive					
Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville,	 Alliance,	 Rochester,	 Pittsburgh,.... Arrive	12 05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.26 “ 4 00 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p m. 7.45 “ 9.38 “ 11.15 “ 1.20 A.M. 2.30 “	4 15 A.M. 4.55 “ 7.00 “ 9.00 “ 11.06 “ 12.15 p.m.	6.05 a.m 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 P.M. 3.30
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday
This is the only Line thaf runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Caiib from Chicago to Baltimore. Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
• F. B. MYEBS, G. P. & T. A
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	. 429
r
The Lemonnier Library,
Established at Notre Dame in 1872for the use of the Students.
Donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, &c., for the reestablishing of this Library, which was destroyed by the late fire, are respectfully solicited and will be gratefully received and ackowledged by the librarian. Please address
J. F. EDWA.RU8.
Notbb Dame, Indiana.
EDWARD BUYSSE, DEALER IN Watches, Clocks, -A. ITU
JEWELRY. ' All Kinds of Engraving Dote. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
f
9-
5
7
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING IINK BETWEEN THE EAST & THE WEST!

Its main line runs from Chicago to CouncU Bluffs, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo. Moline, Rock Island. Davenport, West Liberty, Iowa City. Marengo. Brooklyn, Grinnell, Des Moines (the capital of Iowa), Stuart, Atlantic, and Avoca; with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fairfield, Eldon, Belknap, Centreville, Princeton. Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth, Atchison, and Kansas City; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa, and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Ben-tonsport, Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville, Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe, and Des Moines; Newton to Monroe; Des Moines to Indianoiaand Winterset; Atlantic to Lewis and Audubon; and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad, which owns, and operates a through line from Chicago into the State of Kansas.
Through Express Passenger Trains, with Pullman Palace Carsattached.arerun each way daily between Chicago and Peoria, Kansas City, Council bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison. Through cars are also run between MU waukee and Kansas City, via the “Milwaukee and Rockisland Short Line.”
The “Great Rock Island” is magnificently equipped. Its road bed is simply perfect, and its track is laid with steel nils.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Dlinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining Cars that accompany all Through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes (and the immense passenger business of this line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs Pullman Palace Sleeping Cars for sleeping purposes, and Palace
Dining Cars for eating purposes only. One other great feature of our Palace Cars is a SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your “Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Kansas City, Leavenworth, and Atchison, connections being made in Union Depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS:
At Chicago, with all diverging lines for the East and South.
At Englewood, with the L. S.A M.S., andP.. Ft. W. AC. R.Rds.
At Washington Heights, with P-, C. & St. L. R. R.
At La Salle, with Ill. Cent. R. R.
At Peoria, with P. P. & J.; P.D. AE.; LB.t W.; Ill. Mid.; andT. P. & W. Rds.
At Rock Island, with “Milwaukee & Rock Island Short Line,” and Rock Isl’d & Peo. Rds.
At Davenport, with the Davenport Division C. M. & St. P. R. R.
At West Liberty, with the B..C.R.& N.R.R.
At Grinnell, with Central Iowa R- R.
At Des Moines, with d. M. a F. d. R. R.
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R.R.
At OMAHA, with B. A Mo. R. R. R. in Neb.)
At COLUMBUS J UNCTION, with B.,C. R. A N. R-R-
At Ottumwa, with Centra! IowaR.R.;W., St. L. A Pac., and C. B. AQ. R. Rds.
At Keokuk, with Tol., Peo. A War.: Wab., St. Louis A Pac., and St. L-, Keo. A N.-W. R. Rds.
At Cameron, with H. St. J. R. R.
At Atchison, with Atch., Topeka A Santa Fe; Atch. A Neb. and Cen. Br. U. P. R. Rds.
At Leavenworth, with Kan. Pac., and Kan. Cent. R. Rds.
At Kansas City, with all lines for the West and Southwest.
PULLMAN PALACE CARS are ran through to PEORIA.DES MOINES. COUNCIL. BLUFFS, KANSAS CITY, ATCHI8O& and LEAVENWORTH.
Tickets via this Line, known as the “ Great Rock Island Route,” are sold by all Ticket Agents in the United States and Canada.
For information not obtainable at your home ticket office, address,
A. KIMBALL,	E. ST. JOHN,
Gen’lSuperintendent,	Qen’lTkt. andPaae’grAgu
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
WAIN BVILBINGA
THIS UNIVERSITY- was founded in 1842, and chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the fine and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river. The College can be easily reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the railway between that city and South Bend.
The College buildings are massive and commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The University affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of
CLASSICS,	LAW,
MATHEMATICS, *	MEDICINE,
SCIENCE,	MUSIC.
To such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notbe Dame gives a more complete business training than can be ob. tsined in any purely Commercial College.
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution.
In all the courses, the best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected.
New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance.
Catalouges, giving full particulars, will be sent free, on application to the President,
Very Rev. W. CORBV, C. S. C,, Notre Dame P. O. Indiana.