The Scholastic.
	pEVOTED TO THE JnTE^ESTS OF THE	(Students.
	“Vita Sine Literis Mors Est.”	-
Volume, VI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JANUARY 25,	1873.	Number 20.
■. . Canadian CoTiaspondcncs.
■. College of St. Lavbent, Canada Fist, £ January 9,1873. j
EdiTGR-Scholastic—-Ur. Editor: Availing myself of the invitation extended to “ all the students of the colleges under the control of the Congregation of the Holy Cross ” to write for the Scholastic, I venture to give you an account of our seance at the close of ’72, hoping it will not be altogether uninteresting to the readers of your widely circulated journal.
- Agrand Dramatic and Musical Entertainment was given at the College of St. Laurent on the 29th December, 1872. At two o’clock, P.M., the doors of the splendid college chapel were thrown open, and the Bev. F. Beaudet, C.S.C., Superior, attended by the Rev. F.-'Meahan, Assistant Su pe-sior, Rev. F. Guy, Master of Novices, Rev.- F. Shortis, Editor of the “ Spectator,” followed by the invited guests, members of the Community, students and visitors, entered, and took the seats assignedtbem. •	‘
Amongst the many distinguished gentlemen present, we noticed the Rev. F. Bonin, S. J., of St. Mary’s College, Montreal ;'Rev. F. Belanger. Superior of St. Vincent’s College; Drs. A. Deiuagne and Pinnet; Messrs. A. Secours, N:P.; E. H. Oulette, P. M., etc.
- At half-past two, p.m., the Entertainment opened by the ■representation of the English drama entitled “ St. Louis in Chains,” in three acts. The beautiful drama was rendered in a manner which reflects great credit not only on Sir. Thos. Walsh, C.S.C.. under whose auspices it was got up, but also upon the jounj gentlemen who took leading parts in the play. The play is a masterpiece, and one more appropriate for college representation could not well Ite chosen. It paints character strongly, and shows the powerful effect that stern devotion to religion and love of country may exercise over even the most-implacable enemies, of the Cross. The scene is laid in the gloomy .dungeons of the Mahommedan sultan, Almoadam, during the Crusades. The story concerns itself with the imprisonment and final liberation of the renowned “ St. Louis, King of France.” The characters of the two heroes are strong and passionate; and being frequently brought into contrast, the}7 give room for a great deal of fire and the drawing but of much feeling. These parts were well rendered, and the play of the opposite motives of the originals truly and naturally exhibited. Mr. James Coyle, of Providence, R. I., sustained the part of “ St. LauD,” and the role of “ A moadam ” was enacted by Mr. John Bowles, of New York city. Mr. Wm. Meenan, of Providence, as “ Octoi, Ciref of the Mamelukes,” was certainly a success. He had caught the spirit qf his part, and spoke not only discrimination and'
emotion, but to these accomplishments brought a graceful . figure and dignity of bearing which added considerably to the effect. Master .Harvey Gilmotir, as “ Prince Philip, Son of St. Louis,” understood his role well. He has thb materials of an accomplished actor. Master James St. Louis, as “ Adnmar,” Mr. Burke as “ Osman, an Egyptian Prince,” and Mr. James McCarthy as “ Almazor,” each in his individual sphere was excellent. The rich and wellfitting costumes added much to the tout ensemble. The drama of “ St. Louis ” was folio wed by a French piece entitled “ Felix Pautre.”- Apirt from the spirited manner in which this piece was rendered, it was made doubly interesting from the fact that the hero, “ Felix.” Was known to many present, and is actuilly living in Montreal. The scene is laid in Montreal during the rebellion of 1838, and depicts in a lively manner the events and occurrences of that stirring period. “ Felix Pautre,” one of the leaders of the Rebellion, by feigning madness escapes the gallows from which he would most assuredly have been hung had he not played his part in real life so well. Time and space will not permit a description of all the actors, but I cannot close without honorably mentioning Mr. Horace Myron, who, as “Felix Pautre,” was perfect. Mr. Godfroi, as “ Pautre Pere,” was admirably true to nature. Mr. Ogden . sustained the role of “ Camel, the Traitor,” exhibiting a just appreciation of that diffijult part. Mr. Clement, as “Toi non,” a comic character, displayed considerable histrionic talent. All the other? performed their parts well— no mistakes made—and the interest in the performance was kept up to the closing scene.	.
The Montreal Orchestra, of eighteen instruments, under the direction of Mr.. Secours, discoursed sweet music.. Among the pieces w is the famous “ CMiphe de Bagdad,” splendidly executed. We were also fivored with the “ Heart that fears no sorrow,” artistically performed by. the “St. Laurent Brass Band.” At the close, Master Denis McCarthy of New York city, in a few well-timed remarks in English and French, thanked the audience for. the uniform and fe-pectful attention they had observed. . . throughout the entertainment, as also- the great encouragement they had given us by their_ presence. The audience then separated, much please I with the dramatic and musical treat they had enjoyed at St. Laurent.	. .
After supper, the Orchestra kindly volunteered to favor -the students wi’h some choice music; and Mr. Labelle,, -director of the Orchestra, and a professidna! comic singer, gave some inimitable specimens of the art morhetic. .
There was enjoyment enough for one day, and’ at half- . past ten all retired to dreaip of plots and-chains, and victory and music-............. ;
.	. .	-D?&
154
THE S 0 H O L A S TIG
r
- r -	x	"v:
Scaringa Serenade!,
Our Chinees Ccreepcnacnt,
Lastnight as our reporter' was ~going*liotne, at a’ late * [It is unnecessary, we hope, for us tn disclaim solidarity
liqur, he heard in the distance sweet strains of music, or at., leastwhafhe first supposed to be music, but which proved to be principally “ strains” and other "dismal sounds that seemed to come from a bo$onj_racked .with anguish, or a stomach overloaded with green fruit. Softly our reporter drew near, and at last discovered whence the sounds proceeded. -A-youth whose upper lip the barber could not have slipped the back of bis razor-blade over more: than twice, stood leaning, against.a.gate„post,..witKJ)is_.eyes fixed upon a chamber window in tbtFsecond story of the house before him. In bis hand,he held a guitar, .upon, .which.he picked with the air of one who is not certain he is on the right string, while.from his parted lips came the following song:	•	■	-
I have lo-hoved the-he, Zula Zo-hong, Fo-hor th-hy life was all a so-hong— , ’Twa-bas all a chee-heerful smi-hile ;
*	’Twa-has su-hunsbiue all the whi-hile. .
Here the young man, aused to spit and fill -up .again with wind, and then struck into the chorus:	.
■ -	On, Zu-hula, moulder-hing Zu-hula, -
Si-hilent is thy silver so-hong !	•
t .	Oh, Zu-hula, da-harling Zu-hula,
De-hear departed Zu-hula Zong-ong-on.
The singer here took a rest of a few: minutes, looked anxiously down the street to see that no policemen wen
in sight, then, throwing a peculiar plaintive sound in voice, he sang:	. ..	•	'
When the mo-hoon is shi-hi-ning o’er the la-hake, Oh, the-hen I’ll thi-hink of thee he-he hee 1
■ Oh, the-hen, Oh, the-hen I’ll thi-hink of the-he!
his
Here the front door was suddenly opened, and a sepulchral voice said, “Sick him, Tige!” and out bounced a dog agput the size of a flour-barrel, and with a good set ol .natural teeth. The singer turned a back somersault out ot the gate, and with the dog nipping at his coat tail at every lump, disappeared down toward the heart of the city. Our reporter turned and left the spot, but not until he had seen a middle-aged man in a single garment with an abbreviated narrative, rolling over in the hall-way convulsed with mirth, and saying, whenever he stopped laughing long enough to say anything: ' “ Oh-the-hen—Oh-the-hen, I’ll thi’hink of the-he.”
The reporter had walked several blocks from where the scene described occurred, when he met the dog returning with a wild expression in his eye, and a pair of suspenders auu a portion of a coat-tail in his mouth. Such is life among the lowly in Titusville^ and we believe the course of ti ue love is more tumultuous and rough there than anywhere. We do, indeed.—Titusville Press.	-
_ A Western, {of course) paper has this delicate personal Jtem: “Those who know nice'old ME Wilson, of this jilace, personally, will regret to hear that he was assaulted .in a brutal manner last week, ,but was not. killed. . ..
A Paris street scene.—“Dear lady,”;said.a:child with a toy for sale,.“ buy this.” What. is. the price?” “ Judge yourself, madam; I have eaten nothing to-day.” This is dramatic enough to make the fortune of , thre.e English cra^asrof the period.	"
of.sentiment with Ah Cbeek?Ab, D.D. -	,~3
letters _because he boldly maintains his views from his stand point—Ed.] -	‘	' -
M.R: Editor:_l.have-jnstjreard .from -tte.papers.that Louis Napoleon, ex Emperor of the French, i> d. ad, and that he died in a land whose inhabitants from time immemorial have been the “ natural enemies” of the Fiench. •lt»is no new discovery to me, though I have no doubt it -has- never -struck-your: opaque p.-rcepiive"p«wers.‘~ that Christianity has never be n able to quench in the Western nations that.|?ride.which we “pagansV-^is'we ate tenmd by ignorant Eurojtean batbatians, and I accept the teim— consider the great prerogative ofjuan^a-.d that which renders him gnat and powerful. Christians tin orelically profess to follow the maxims of the.Bible, which--itaches humility and forgiveness, qualities diamettically opposed to what philosopher.-1 ke myself—Sensible men—b: heve to be essential to manliness of character: I nnan, prid ■■ and avenging promptly all injuries. I am glad to see; a d. as I remarked above, it is no nqw di.-covery on my pan—dial however strongly Chi is ians may theoretically profess humility and forgiveness, many of them are at boit< m excellent pagans.like mys<-lf,,and can enter on successful competition with tho last pagan of us all in pinle and unforgiveness. That thi< is a clie- dug cmi-ideiation to me, I need .not state • It ite> me good to hear Clnis'ians call two -Christian nations.’* natu al e.a m es.” They may , talk as muclt.as they, please, about Christian chanty, and forgiving injures, and. a'l that sort of thing,—that is J.ke you barbarians say beauty is—only skin deep, t ut it does not touch the heart. Many of you are good pagins, pr?:ud and revengeful at heart, ami 1 rejoice to see that you come out.so frequently, and so strong in your natural < <>!<.j>.
Napoleon HI was a man according to my heart. He exercised all those qualities which render a man truly great and distinguished. L'ke the great B smai.ck, Ue was proud and grasping—two qualities essential in a mighty ruler-. And though it is not to be supposed that such men could ever equal the great Emperor of China, the Brother of the Sun and Moon, yet, as you barbarians sty, to give the devil his due they possess in a rare degree that m ble trait of doing everything for themselvt s. reaaruh ss of the rightsand lives of the vulgar herd of people who were created merely to-work and toil in order to fi;i the coffers of their rulers and to be food for powder when kings and rulers wish to show their power and-greatness in war. Bismarck, however, possesses more cunning than Napoleon did—and therefore I must reluctantly concede that lie is a better, pagan than was the man whose, panegyric I condescend to; write..	■ ’
While he equalled the great Bismarck in those splendid pagan and un-Christian qualities of pride and selfish ambition, Napoleon was almost the peer of the. noble. MaZ; zini in treachery; and though he. never had the opportunity in the beginning, of his reign of «qudiing .that thorqugh?gqing pagan, Garibaldi, in the admirable art of boasting of victories after disgraceful defeats, it is altogether owing to his having such ol,i-fnsbio cd < ffi .ets in his army,as MacMahon and otheis, who, blinded oy thiir Christian bjgotry, were. faiiht,ul, to t.lu ir.( country; _ His 'treachery was. admirable in. the manner Instituted that
L
THE SCHOLASTIC.

detestable ei.emy of paganism, that man who alone has been able to pervt-n auy of our grand old p-igan nations to Christianity. I-cannot sufficiently extol Napoleon for the exquisite fiiie^e he displayed in removing from the Pope alt the support that other nations, like Austiia and Spain, would have gladly given to o,.e on whom they .look vith superstitious reverence as the Vicar on earth of Him you call Jesus. With what consummate skill did he not attempt to deceive the people, and especially the clergy of France, pretending to defend the Papal States against those splendid heroes, Garibaldi and Victor Etn-maniit-1, and then, just at the proper time, withdrawing the pretence of support—thus giving that truly gallant man and precious example to all heathendom, Victor Emmanuel; the opportunity of manifesting some of his splendid pagan qualities!
And here I know not which most to admire, Victor or Napokon, I fear t he enthusiasm which the contemplation ot such brilliant ex nnples of pagan qualities in rulers calling themselves Christians enkindles in my heart may carry me beyond the gravity that all philosophers like myself are wont to imvmain.
If Napoh on in the height of his power seemed to be more a-tute linn Victor, Victor tn the end has come but more successful; and while I admit that Napoleon mani-fcsted a more ptaise«orthy adherence to those -grand iuudiitnental principles of glorious heathenism that aie' oppo.'id to the belief ol Christim s, 1 find I must give the palm to Victor for his persevering and enthusiastic following out of tho.-e pleasant pagan practices which areopposed to the moral teachings of Christianity, especially to what some .Christians call the Stxih Commandin'nr, and others the Seventh; and to the. other Commandment which immediately follows.
■ But L must conclude, not because I could not say more in praise .of those mep that are such shining lights of heattieuism, and have done so much to destroy that old man who puts bis trust in the God of the Christians, and w ho is bigotedly defending the faith of Hini'whose Vicar he is, but because I do not care to write any more on the subject and thus a lorn your columns by a longer lucubration from the peu of	r *
Ah-Cheek-Ah.D.D.
James A. O'Reilly, of Reading, Pa., graduate of’69, lias been admitted io the bar of Beiks County. Tt is with unfeigned" pleasure we read in‘the Reading Eagle the following announcement:	1
“James A. OR-illy, Esq., who was on Monday ad-nii'ted a member of the Beiks County Bar, is the youngest sou of Mf. P. O’Reilly, the well-known contractor. He rlceivid the rudiuienis of his education in the public, schools <>f this city, and from the.Reading High School went to Nitre D .me, Indiana, from which University he graduated wiih high honors in 1869, but .remained at the Institution two years longer.to pursue his b-gal studies. He went through the regular course in the Law Department; but at the time of leaving did; not' receive his degree, owing to his bring under age. Upon returning to' Read-" ing he entered the law < tike of the late John S. Richards, Esq , and was the last registered' student of that popular preceptor. After the death of Hr. R.chards he continued his.siudieSfin,the,office of Garrett- B. Stevens, Esq. Mr. |
O’Reilly, passed a very creditable examination before the Committee on Tuc sday evening of last week. He is a y oung man of splendid education and fine abilities, and. undoubtedly will make his mark in the profession he has chosen. A bright future is before him, and - he has our best wishes for his success.”
We wish the young lawyer all the success he deserves.
....Roll of Hoaox.
[Under this head are given each week the nemes of those students whose conduct was in every respect satisfactory during the week preceding the given date.]
FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 1873. .	. . _
Senior Department.
F.	Buter, W. Briant, A. Blong, C. Berdel, M. Ba»tarache; R. Boyle, G. Brown, J. Brown, J. Begue, M. Allen, A. Allen, P.' Cooney, H. Cassidy, W. Clarke, J. Comer, J. Crummey, J. Claf-fey, J. Deiine. C. Dodge, W. Dodge, T. Dundoh, J. Eisenman, M. Foote, B. Gorman; J. Gillen, E. Gambee^J. Gillespie, J. E. Hogan, E. Halpin, D. Halloran, J. Hand, J. Ireland, C. Johnson, P. Jacobs, T. Keenan, F. Leffingwell, P. Lilly, J. Lee, J. McGlynn, E. Morancy, D. Maloney, E. Monahan, J. Murphy, J. McAllister. T. Murphy, A. Mooney, J. McCormick, E. .McSweeney, E. Mullen, E. McLaughlin, P. O’Meara, C. Proctor, B. Roberts, E. Spit ley, G. StacK, F. Scrufford, J. Scherei, A. Taggart, S. Valdez, W. Van’t Woud, C. Vinson, T. White, C. Walter, H. Walker, J. Wolfe, W. Wallace, T. Watson, J. Ward, J. Brogan, G. Crummey, H. Zeitler.
Junior Department.
G.	Amann, B. Baca, W. Ball, W. Breen, L. Busch, P. Bros*' seau, C. Burger, J. Burke, M. Blake, J. Caren, _M. Casey, B. Cusey, J. Callasrhan, J. Daly, P. Daly, H. Enneking, J. Ewing;-W. Fletcher, G. Fiiehmaun, C. Furer, _G. Gross, W. Gross, J. Graham, E. Holt, W. Hake, W. Haney, V. Hansen, H. Hoffman, L Hibhen, R.'Hutchings, A. Kleine, A. Kreiter, W. Kin-zie, H. Kinley, W. Meyer, F. McOsker, J. Mullarky, S. McMa-hoi\, W. McMahon, 8. .Marks, W. Morgan. E. Milburn,F. Miller, N. Mooney. J. McGinniss, A. Mitchell, J. Nevin, E. O.imer, C. O’Connor, J. Quill, A. Ried, C. Ried, J. Stubbs, A. Schmidt, H. Shephard, A. Schiffer, W. Sehullhies, -L-Whitaker, S. Wise, O. Waterman, J. Williams.
Minim Department.
H.	Faxon, C. Faxon. E. Cleary, F. Carlin; A; Murphy; 'J. O’Meara, C. Walsh, A. Koch, G. McCollum, T. Nelson,-E. Raymond,- C. McKinnon, J. Hilliard.	.
J. F. Edwards, Secretary.
A well known- Judge, when he first went to the bar, was a very blundering speaker. Oirone occasion, when he was trying a case involving a right of property to a lot of pigs, he said: .	-
“Gentlemen of the jury, there were just twenty-four pigs in that drove; just twenty-four, gentlemen—exactly twice as many as there are in that jury-box.” -v.-
One day last week- a lady in the country wrote for" a piece 'of music “ with sentimental words that almost ’ silently flow from the depth of concealed sorrow’, reveal-” ing a sad heart’s tenderest emotion in a tone that would almost "melt* an iceberg and crumble adamant to dust,” and in a postscript infofihed them that her “ paugh ” would be up next week and pay for it.
Geographical Conundrum.—If the world is round, how on earth can it come to an end T - - -
166 -*
THE SCHOLASTIC.
The Scholastic.
PiMished every Week during Tenn Time, at
NOTBE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should he sent to Editor Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana.	f
TERMS:
One year..................................^...4..........$2	00
One session (5 months').................................. 1	25
Single copies (lOc) °f the publication can be obtained at the Students’ Office. '
. Sesd-Annual Ezamination,
Held January 24, 25, 27, 28, 30, and 31, 1873.
The Written Examination took place on the 24th and 25th. The Oral-Examination begins on the 27th.
BOARDS OF EXAMINATION.
' Rev. A. Lemonnier, C.S. C., President—General Supervisor.
■-	CLASSICAL COLLEGIATE BOARD.
Rev. M. B. Brown, Presiding.
Rev. A. Louage, Assistant.
Rev. P. Lauih.
Rev. W. O'Rourke.
Rev. F. Thiele.
Prof. T. E. Howard, A. M.
Prof. M. A. J. Baasen, A. M., Secretary.
CLASSES TO BE EXAMINED.
Moral Philosophy; Second, Third, and Fourth Gre< k; First, Second, Third and Fourth Litin ; English Literature ; Rhetoric ; English Composition; also the Pieparatory Classes in Latin and Greek.	.	'.
•	SCIENTIFIC COLLEGIATE BOARD.
Rev. Jos. C. Carrier, Presiding.
•.	Rev. J. O’Connell, Assistant.
5.	Mr. J. Zahm, C.S.C;
.	Prof. W. Ivers, A. M.
Prof. A. J. Stace, A. M.
Prof. D. A. Clarke, M. S.
■	Adj. Prof.T. F. O’Mahony, B. S., Secretary.
Prof. Schnurrer.
CLASSES TO BE EXAMINED.
Astronomy; General Geometry and Calculus; Trigonometry; Second Geometry; Firtt, Second, and Third Algebra; Chemistry ; Physics; Zoology ; Physiology; Mineralogy; Botany.
-'	COMMERCIAL BOARD.
Rev. A. Lemonnier, Pi esiding.
Prof. L. G. Tong, LL.B., M.A.	•
Prof. J. A. Lyons, A.M.
Prof. W. Ivers, A.M.
Prof. T. E. Howard, A.M.
Prof. D. A. Clarke, M.S., Secretary.
’	Prof. C. J. Lundy, M.D.	•
’	CLASSES TO BE EXAMINED. '
Book-Keeping; Cummeicial Law; First and Second Arithmetic (Sr.); First Arithmetic (Jr.); Geography and U. S. History (Sr.); First Geography and U.S. Hisiory (Jr.); Modern History (Sr.); Modern History (Jr.); First English Gr.in.mnr (Sr.); First English Grammar (Jr).
PREPARATORY COURSE—BOARD OF ENGLISH BRANCHES.
Rev. M. J. Toohey, Presiding.
Rev. E. Lilly, Assistant.
-	Mr. D. E. Hudson, C.S.C.
Bro. Benjamin. -Bro Albert. .
Bro. Leander.	' " ;'
. Prof. C. A. B. von Weller. .
Adj..Prof. J. Edwards, Secretary.
CLASSES TO BE EXAMINED..
Second and Third Grammar (Sr.): Second and Third Grammar (Jr.) ; First and Second Reading (Sr.); First, Second and Third Reading (Jr.); Second Geography (Jr.); Fiist and Second Orthography (Sr.) ; First and Second Orthography (Jr.) ; Third Arithmetic (Sr.); Second, Third, Fourth and Fifth Arithmetic (Jr-)	.
BOARD OF MODERN LANGUAGES.
Rev. P. W. Condon, Presiding.
Rev. P. Lauth, Assistant. . . •
Rer. M. J. Toohey.
Rev. A. Louage.
Rev. F. Thiele.	_•
Prof. M. A. J. Baasen.
Prof. Schnurrer, Secretary.
CLASSES TO BE EXAMINED. ’. ‘
First and Second French; First, Second and Third (Sr.), Third and Fourth (Jr.) German.	' "
MINIM BOARD.
Rev. P. W. Condon. Presiding! ' ’ ' Mr. D. E. Hudson, C.S.C., Assistant.
Mr. J. Shea, C.S.C.
Bro. Albert.
Bro. Celestine, Secretary. •	-
Will Examine all the Classes taught in the Minim Department.
The Classes in Music and the Fine Arts will be examined by special Committees selected for the purpose by the President, and at such time during the regular Examinations us he shall appoint.	'
Matters for Examination in the Various Classes.
‘ "	CLASSICS.
Moral Philosophy—Author, Mannier; Logic, Dialectics and Certitude.	.
First Latin—Juvenal, 1st satire, 162 Verses; 3rd satire, from 152d verse, 152; 4th satire, 154; 7th satire, 241; Pertius, 5lh satire, 160-869; Quintillian, 10th book, 131 paragraphs.
We did not review. Every week the pupils had a Latin composition or a Latin version. The versions were taken from Terentius, (Andria), or Lucretius. Every Saturday we have exercises, viva voce, in the Latin language.
Second Latin—First book of Cicero’s De Officiis; Horace, Ars Poetica; Arnold’s Prose Composition, pages 235-271; Bullions’ Latin Grammar: Syntax, Prosody.
Third Latin—Cicero's Orations; 1st and 2nd Catiline and Ar-. chias; Arnold’s exercises, 50-80.
Fourth Latin—Read 1st and 2d Books of Virgil’s 2Eneid; Arnold’s Prose Composition from beginning to page 60; Grammar, from beginning to 20th Rule of Syntax.
Fifth Latin—26 chapters of Cassar; First 35 exercises of 1st and 2d Latin book; in Grammar, all of Syntax and daily lessons in conjugations, declensions, etc.
Sixth J.-itin—Declensions of Nouns, Adjectives and Pronouns; conjugations of Verbs; first thirty exercises and lessons in Ar- -nold's First and Second Latin Book.
Second Division—To be examined on declensions of Nouns 1st, 2d, 3d, 4tb and 5-h declensions; the Adjective to Numerals; from Arnold’s First Latin Book, page 1 to 28; sketch of Latin Grammar, from page 123 to 142.
Second Greek—Arnold’s Prose Composition, 45 exercises; Demosthenes, “ De Corona,” 50 pages; Sophocles, 450 lines.
: Third Greek—Memorabilia, Book 1st partially reviewed; Homer, Book 1st of Iliad, and as far as 133 in Book 2d, not reviewed ; Grammar (Bullions’) as far as the V.erb in c* inclusive; exercises, Arnold’s, 1 to 27 inclusive. ’	'
Fourtk Greek—Bullioni’’Greek Grammar, beginning to page
T H E *S C HOL A S TIC .
m
'	't	,
First Geography and U. S. History (Sr.)—General questions on Geography of United States, Mexico, South America, and Europe. Leading facts in Goodrich’s U. S. History as far as Revolutionary-War.	•
First Geography and U. S. History (Jr.)—Same as 1st Class Senior Department. Mitchell’s New School Geography and Atlas are used in both these classes.
Second Geography [Sr.]—Mitchell’s New School Geography and Atlas, to page 140.	-
First English Grammar [Sr.]—Bullions’ Grammar, page 163 to 281; Analysis, 15 pages of the “ Dying Soldier’s Dream.”
Second Grammar [Sr.]—Etymology, from p. 17 to p. 158 of Bullions’ Analytical and Practical; partially reviewed; Etymological parsing.
First Grammar [Jr.]—The principal and special Rules of Syntax were studied and reviewed by the members of this class during the session; “Progressive Exercises” were used.for parsing exercises.
■ PREPARATORY COURSE.
Third Grammar [Sr.]—Bullions’, from beginning to Syntax;
also parsing exercises.	•
Second Grammar [Jr.]—Bullions’ Analytical and Practical English Grammar to Syntax.
.Third Grammar [Jr.]—Etymology, Bullions’ School Grammar.	' ,
Second Geography [Jr.]—Goodrich's History, 35 chapters; reviewed from 17th ; Mitchell’s Intermediate Geography, to Map of the United States inclusive.
First Reading [Sr.]—Fifth Reader; American Elocutionist.
Second Reading [Sr.]—This class uses the Metropolitan Fourth Reader. The members read through the book and are reviewing.	.
First Reading [Jr.]—Fifth Reader, American Elocutionist. ’'
Second Breading [Jr.]—Metropolitan Fourth Reader; Examination may take place from page 67 to the end of the book.
Third Reading [Jr.]—Metropolitan Third Reader.
First Orthography [Sr.]—Wilson’s Speller; Dictation Exercises from the Fifth Reader and American Elocutionist.
Second Division—Wilson’s Speller and Dictation Exercises. First Orthography (Jr.)—Wilson’s Speller, to page 100.
Second Orthography (Jr.)—Wilson’s Speller, to page SO.	*
Third Arithmetic [Sr.]—Reduction of Compound Numbers, and Denominate Fractions; Robinson’s Practical Arithmetic, page 150 to 190.	.	•
Fourth Arithmetic [Sr.]—From Fundamental Rules to Multiplication of Fractions.	.
Third Arithmetic (Jr.)—Robinson’s Practical from page 86 to 195, including Common and Decimal Fractions and Compound Numbers as far as Longitude and Time; reviewed Common Fractions.
Fourth Arithmetic [Jr.]—Robinson’s Rudiments of Written Arithmetic as far as Decimal Fractions.	•
Fifth Arithmetic [Jr.] — Robinson's Rudiments, 1st Section, Division of Simple Numbers, pp. 57 to 69; 2d Section, MultipU cation of Simple Numbers, pp. 42 to 48.
. ’	LANGUAGES.
First German Class—Has studied and reviewed m Meuwsen’a Grammar from the Article to the Conjunction. In the Third Reader it has translated on page 4, “Gott in der Natur”; on page 338, “ Die naechtlichc Hershau ” ; on page 343, “ Der Ring des Polykrates ”; also a large number of business letters, beginning on page 389. The most choice Compositions in tha Reader have been read. Parsing may be asked in any part of the Grammar or Reader.
Second German—Woodbury’s Method, pp. 1 to 100, and 308 to 350; German Reader [Adler]—Translations, 61 pages; German reading, writing, spelling.
First Division Third German [Jr.]—Ahn’s Method, 53 Exercises ; Ahn’s Grammar, beginning to Chapter 3; Ahn’s Reader , 10 reading lessons translated; German reading, writing, spelling. ..	.	.
172; Mitchell’s New Ancient Geography, page 1 to 152; Greek, Ollendorff, page 140 to 246; Anthon’s Anabasis, Book 1st, 25 pages.	-	....
Fifth Greek used Bullions’ Grammar; raw as far as Verbs in mi; Ollendorff’s exercises from beginning, Greek and English to page 62.	‘	•
. English Literature—Shaw's Outlines ; principal authors from Chaucer to Pope.
Rhetoric Class—All of Hart’s Rhetoric, twice; 15 essays, besides other written exercises. L
Composition Class studied Hart’s Rhetoric from the beginning of the book to page 147; Punctuation and Capitals, Diction and Sentences.
sciences. ‘
Zoology (Nicholson’s)—The Classes of Aves and Mammalia.
Botany (Gray’s) —The first 10 lessons, and lessons 22d, 23rd, 24th, 25th.	.
Mineralogy (D j na’s) —Crystallography.
Geology (Dana’s)—Physiographical and Lithological parts.
Human Physiology (Dalton’s)—The whole subject.
Chemistry (Barker’s) — Theoretical Chemistry; and of Inorganic Chemistry, Hydrogen and Negative Monads.
Physics (Gatol's)—Preliminary Principles of, and Mechanics of Solids; Mechanics of Liquids; Mechanics of Gases and Vapors ; and Acoustics.	.
Astronomy—Lockyer's work in full.
Trigonometry—Loomis’ Treatise entire ; together with Men.. suration and Navigation. '
Analytical Geometry and Calculus (Olney’s)—Page 1 to 92 , inclusive ; and in the Calculus 1 to 25 inclusive ; no review.
Second Geometry—Six first books; partially reviewed.
.First Algebra—Robinson’s University Algebra from page 182 ' to 323; no review.	.
Second Division—From page 103 to page 228 in Robinson’s University Algebra; reviewed the first part of the book up to page 103.	.
Third Algebra—Robinson’s University, as far as Involution.
■ ■	COMMERCIAL COURSE.
_ Matter gone over in First and Second Book-keeping Classes:
First Class—In Commercial Law: Contracts, Partnership, Sales of Personal Property, Guaranty, Agency, Stoppage in Transitu, ■ Interest and Usury, Negotiable Paper, Carriage of goods and passengers. In Book-keeping: all the definitions and rules of text-book. Practice: Merchandising, Shipping, Consignments, Mdse. Co. Accounts; opening, conducting and closing stock and partnership books—both gaining and losing business; Banking, Steamboating, Railroading; exercises in making, accepting, discounting and exchanging Commercial paper.	'
Second Class—Text-book definitions and rules; special definitions and rules. Practice: Five sets, embracing stock and . partnership business and Compound Company Business. Two sets, Day Book and Journal combined; exercises in negotiable paper (notes).	..
Modern History (Fredet’s)—Seniors: Parts 3d, 4th, 5th and Sth. Juniors: Parts 3d, 4th, 5th, to the Fifth Crusade.
First, Arithmetic (Sr.)—Robinson’s Higher Arithmetic from page 259 to page 370; no review.
First Arithmetic (Jr.)—Robinson’s Higher Arithmetic from page 259 to page 370; no review.	•
Second Arithmetic (Sr.)—Robinson’s Progressive Practical; can be examined on any subject from Fractions to Discount, both inclusive, omitting the subjects of Insurance and CustomHouse Business.
Second Arithmetic (Jr.)—The members of this class reviewed Compound Numbers from the beginning of the session up to the middle of November, when they commenced Percentage, in which they studied and reviewed Commission, Profit and Loss, Insurance, Custom-House Businessand Interest. Tne class may be examined from page 205 topage 246.
i
I
158	TH® S CHO® A^STTC.’
.Third German [Sr]—Ahn’s Method, 52 Ev-icises; Ahn's Re.tdi-r, 12 n-adina lemms translated ; Alm’s Grammar, as far IrreguUr Verbs; Get man reading, writing, spel ing.
Second D.vision—From Ahn’s First Course of German L-m gunge; practical part’fiom page 1 to page 54; theoretical part from page 1 to paste 14.
First French—Fasquelle’s French Course, from page 1031 o 155; in Fiench Verb Book they have, studied the cetini<iona of the Tenses, and the Cot jusaiioiisof the Vet bs “ Avoir, E.re, Aimer, Aller, Eavoyer and Finir.”
Second French — Fasquelle’s Introductory French Course, from the beginning of the book to page 103.
We make room-for- the Director of Studies this week.
The heavy snow storm on Thur.-d iy ealight several of us away from home, and lengthened out to fourteen hours the usual four hours trip from Chicigo to Notre Dame.
• THE.exigencies of the times demand that all the available room i.i the College building be turned to the s’udems’ use. The students in the collegiate c -urs's will so^n have a stub-hall to themselves. , The new s’udy-hall will be r»-ady on the 1st of Febiuary. Improvement-, on alarger scale will ba made for the special bun tic of collegiate students as soon as the contemplated buildings are put up.
Circulating Library.—This interesting institution is increasing i.i popularity—and deservedly so. The stock <il book', consisting of about 400 volutn s, is gradually in creasing by the addili-m of well-selected wotks. It. will soon be one of the most valuable library at None Dame, although it may not be the largest. Every student who can spare §100—the L-e tor membership—ought to give his name to the librarian, and in this manner help in developing and firmly establishing this praiseworthy undertaking. -	. .
Some college papers, we forget their names, whine over the fact that we devote several columns to Class Reports every, week. We would be charmed to devote our pages exclu-ively to the edification of those and such like pa; ers, tiiat stand in need of outsideis to prop them up—we like to do charitable deeds—but as we have a prior engagement with bur friends and especially the-parents of our students, we cannot fill our columns with ma>ler adapted to their capacity of the-paper critics. We me..tion for their benefit that Robinson Ciusue and the Arab an Nights are not out of prim, but may be had of Book-selleis generally. -
The Various Dramatic Socie ics of the College have passed nsoiulio-s which ate fully sane.ion d by the authorities here... It is a wise st* p i.< many respects. Fit st, it will ailoid these Societies means wheiewitn to cover the ex p< uses to which either .they or the College aresulji cted at each Exhibition. Setond, it will, we l.usl, keep out ol the Hall the noisy boys who have no business laue, and are a source of annoyance to every body. Fifty cents entrance fee is a Very moderate sum which nobody will grumble to pay, inasmuch as its proceeds will go to the improv^ menu oi the Hall, sc nes, cos.umes, etc.
Special y eat ly tickets of aduniauce to ihe Exercises of "Washington Hall will be issued at once by the Societies, to their irieuds and patrons. Thite tickets lyill have to be shown to the jauilor al the door of the Hull. Persons not provided with said tickets, or such others as
may beissmd fir each Exhibition, will have to pay the fifty cents e .trance f e, ami take in the Hall the stat which will be appointed them.
' Fly-Catches.
Visitors—Bro. Augustus, who is never happier than when attending to his duty as cicerone of the College, has been quite busy of late in showing strangers and Iriends about the College, etc.
Stone-Cutting—Though the weather has been severe, stillit has not deterred the stone-cutters from chiselling away from “ morn till eve” in their little shop by the side of the “ steam-house,” preparing stone for the buildings which are to rise during the coming warm season, which promises to be a busy one for the masons, etc., at Notre D ime.
Re flued.—The boiler of which we have said so much is now ready .for woik again, having been re-flued, but we hope, we wi l not be called upon again to. say that it has "■r fleueii" for it mi .lit I urt tome one the next time. Ho.vevi r, we have no-apprehension of this, as the shell ba< been pronounced “ excellent” by one who is competent to judge.
Comfort.—Owing to the good management of the steam—w hich is due to Bro. Narcisse—we hear no onecoin-p'ai ing that the College is not sufficiently heated. The fact is, the class rooms, study-halls, etc., are always warm; and though we have had remarkably cold days this winter, yet plenty of steam has been on hand. We like this: it suits us, and we hope it will continue.
Good.—Measures are being taken by the Dramatic Associations,of the University to rid our En'ertaiuments of' those who congregate in ibe Hall on such occasions and disturb the. intellectual portion of the audience by the noi-e and uproar which they occasion. Re-p!u>ions, it is said,, will soon appear in the Scholastic. Every one must have a ticket, or the “ esquigihun," to be admitted to the Hal).
Minims on the Ice.—On Tu< sday oflast week, while tak-ins a promt nade on the lake, our attention was attracted by the sound of many mtrry voices. It was the Minims. They bad-C'-me to skate, and had brought their “family sleigh” along. Tln-y had all mounted the sh igh at the break of ihe hill and landed safe on the glassy surface of the lake; fun was now their object, and iu this all took part. .
A Misplay.—Owing to a “ fearful muff” we lately made, we omitted to give you an account, of the new page which is being raided to the book of honor known to be. kepi open in Washington H ill. A new scene has lately been punted, and but few names have as. yet been inscribed upon ;its back. It will not always be a blank,— so those wishing immortal. honors . had better make haste. •’ ;
Meteorological—Weather! what kind hav.i’t we had withinthe pist- two weeks,— mild, blustry, cold, stormy, warm, pleasant, disagreeable, and in fact all kinds. At one time we saw the rain descendin'!, and from all appear-, ances a January thaw at hand; the highway across the lake had lobe abandoned for a. time :> some wet skating;-and finally, the earth putsonanother overgarment of. white.	...	.	.. . . .
T IIE ’ S 6 H 0 L A ST I Q
159
The'Big Bell, as usual, hasn’t'much to say these, times. It leaves the small-fry to do all the miking. Though one day last wei k, owing to some unknown cir-cum'tance, it was heard to speak from its place <>f retirement. It has been negotiating for a place in the new Church, when finished; and, so far as we can learn, has met with entire success. No doubt it will mike frequent harangu s there, especially in warm weather. • .	.
Optime.—This dav week the Literary Societies are to favor us with an Entertainment, to which we look forward with delight, knowing as we do that, it will be ‘a success. Li’erary Entertainments are not as frequent as we would wish they were. We'often think our Literary Societies are too bashful, for we know that it is neither, from want of ability nor strength that they withhold. But it would appear that those immortal lines of Thomas Gray are applicable to them thus far, this year:	•
“ Full many a gem of purest ray serene
• The dark nnfat homed cav> s of ocean hear;	-
Full-many a flower is born to blush un-een.
And w aste its sweetness on the desert air.”
Entertainments of this kind are even more acceptable to the cultivated mind than tragedies aud comedies. Indeed we look forward to a treat—a literary treat. Tin se are the ones that bespeak the intellectual growth of an institution, as well as being the means of bringing to light the genius and talent of those participating; they teach them most •valuable lessons. Let every one do justice to himself, his Society, and his Alma Mater.	_ _	_
Sleighing—Though they complain on all sides of us that there is no-sleighing, we cannot thus complain, for we have hid upwards of eight weeks’ splendid slipping” It was sleighing when the students went to Niles, as all bear testimony, though it is the last time it has betu thoroughly enjoyed by the Seniors and Juniors. We can’i, of course, say that it is not enjoyed by the Minims, for since the day they washed the “ big ones’ ” face la-a autumn, until now, they have enjoyed the snow to its full extent. They have a sleigh in their yard which one would take for a boat, from the way in which they manage it It holds one or all, just as the occasion may di mand. The Minims are truly a happy crowd.
Not a few remember Joseph M---------------, who left Notre Dame some three or four years ago,—not a graduate, however, except perhaps in the dulce fir niente. Poor Joseph had many good qualities—but alack, for laziness! it shone or rather outshone everything else in him,—s >, one fine day, Joseph was recallcckto New York; Since then nothing was heard of him. It is only a few days ago that a letter written on board the receiving-ship Vermont (Brooklyn Navy Yard), apprized us of the fact that Joseph had enlisted or rather had been impressed into the- Navy. The school-ship had opened its tender bosom to receive him on his arrival at New York, and since then many u clime did Joe see. However, he never forgot Notre D.ime, and he makes us the solemn promise that he will , not die without casting his eyes once more on the scene , of his palmy days.	. .
Joseph gets now a salary of §15.50 a month, which if husbanded with economy would soon atf >rd him the means of satisfying hi." wish. We will have to forego the pleasure oi seeing him fo> sometime, ir we judge by the postscript of his letter' '* Please send some stamps. .... I may
try to get some money to buy piper with [his letter was written on wretched, material].. soz that [ can k< t-p tra<k of youi” That is light, Joe. You will not Lave much trouble in th-it, but how about keeping it ack of
One thing ought to’console Joseph in his hard career: he is the adopted son of a very wealthy lady, and some day, sooner or-laU r, stamps will not be wanting to him.
. L-
The Junior Department award a vo-’e of thanks to Mr. • McMichael for t lie excellent lecure on Educa'ion which he delivered in tin ir Mudy-hall on Mo..day evening. January 20:h, 1373. We hope to have the pleasure of listening to Mr. McMichael soon again.
A sarcastic old lady says the only thing which keeps lent is her best silk umbrella.
Advertise in. The Scholastic.
We have concluded to take a limited number of choice advertisements this year, should our business friends conclude to patronize us in this department.	.	..
This arrangement, however, will not’ interfere with the reading ma ter, as we: p.opo-e printing .the advertisements on a separate sheet, to serve as a cover t» tbe present Scholastic. ’I his will be done as soon as a sufficient number of ndveriisements are secured-
•	- ADVERTISING RATES.
1 page..................§150 1column.................§	30
1 column ............... So coinn-n .................. IS
’. y2 column;. —......... '	5o ' l-lii-column.........	10
Adver>isement«.for a shorter time than one year, at proportionate rates. Addre-s Editor Scholastic, Notre’Dame, Indiana. ‘	.
A Cathoi IC Journal, particularly devoted to the Holy Motl er o’ God. Published weekly at Notre Dame University. Indiana,encouraged and aj -proved by the highest authority of the Church.	.
TERM":
Life subscription. $2<>, payable in advance, or by installments paid within the year. ’
Forby«ais $-o. in advance. .	-	' ’	"
For V years $5 in advance.
For 1 year, $3. in adv.it.ee.
Single copies In cents. <•
To clubs •>! ten suli-cribers for one year, eleven coj ies ot tl e Ave U . hi* lorS25 tn advance.	- - -
To clubs of ten subscribers, for two years, eleven copies of the Au MaRiA for $45. in advance- -
- To club' of twenty snbscril>ersrfor one year, twenty-five copies of.the Avt. M t> I-lot $50 ill advance	,
The postage ol the Air M wta is but Jive cents a quarter, or twenty cents a tear, when paid in advance—either by remittance to the mailing office here. <>r paid at the subscriber’s post office	.
Address,	LDiToK aVR MARIA,
- Notre-Dame, Indiana. ■
THE ILLUSTRATED CATHOLIC MAGlZLXE.
THIRTY-TWO PAGES EVERY RDONTH.
SI OO PER ANNUM. ” ’
Premiums for Clubs.
• . . ' - - . . . ;
■	. Send for a Specimen of
Wlir Sonng
Which will be read through and through by every member of -	the family, young and old.
Volume V begins wiih January, 1873. Subscribe now, by sending
One Dollar, to. the Editor,
'- -'-REV.'WILLIAM BYRNE,
Crusader Office, Boston, Mau.
160
THE SCHOLASTIC.
$20,000.
L. 8. & M. 8. RAILWAY.
TWENTY THOUSAND DOLLARS IN PRE-miuDis, for Distribution among the
82.00 Subscribers of the
CINCINNATI
IN APRIL, 1873.
The number of Premiums are al ways increased when the number of names exceed the number calculated upon.
We now offer the following:
1 Cash Preminin of -	-	$l,00C
20 Cash Premiums of $100 Each. -	- 2.000
60 Siem-winding' Watches. $80 Each,	4,890
100 Cash Premiums of $20 Each, -	2,ooo
200 Cash Premiums of $10 Each, -	- 2,ooo
100 Cash Premiums of $5 Each, -	Soo
100 Cash Premiums of $3 Each,	-	- 3oo
loo Cash Premiums of $2 Each, - - - 2ao 1279 Miscellaneous Prem., $2 to $10 Each, 7,2oo Making a Total of TWO THOUSAND Premiums,
Worth TWENTY THOUSAND DOLLARS-
Every sub4criber who remits §2 00 for a year’s subscription will have his name registered,’and will be furnished by return mail a receipt giving the date and number to which his name is registered, said number being represented by a duplicate in the distribution.
Agents sending 10 names and §20.00 at one time receive a free paper one year and have their names registered as participants for premiums.
Specimen Copies, Posters, Premium Pamphlet and Subscription Blanks sent free to persons desiring them. Address
FARA.N & McLEAN, nl8w6	Cincinnati, Ohio-
NILES I SO UTH BEND RR.
GOING SOUTH.
Leave Niles,	-	GM a m.	Arrive south Bend,	-	7 30 a.m
’’	9.35am. “	“	10.15	a.m
“	4.59p.m.	“	“	5.30	p.m
GOING NORTH.
Leave South Bend, - 8.4y a.m. I Arrive Niles, -	- 9.20 a.m
“	11.45 a.m. I *’	12 25 p m
“	“	6 80 p.m. |	“	7.10 p in
SUNDAY TRAINS.
Arrive South Bend, - 9.3U a.m. | Leave South Bend, - 10.00 a.m “	“	5.30 p.m. I *•	“	0 30 p.m
S. R. KING, Agent, Sonth Bend.
UKIVEESITY OF JiUTEE DAME, INDIANA.
Founded in 1842, and Chartered in 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1841,enlarged in 1860, and fitted tip with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students.
Situated near the Michigan Southern 4 Northern Indiana Railroad, it is easy of access from all parts of the United States.
•TERMS:
Matriculation Pee. •	------	-	-	.	-	$500
Board, Bed and Podding, and Tuition (Latin and Greek); Washing
and Mending of Linens, per Session of five months, -	- 150 00
French, German, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew and Irish, each, • 10 00 Instrumental Music, -	-	-	-	-	.	12 50
Use of i’iano, ------	..... jo 00
Use of Violin, -----------	2 00
Drawing, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	.	-	-	.	-15 00
Use of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus, -	-' •	5 00
Graduation Fee—Commercial. $5; Scientific, $S; Classical, - 1G 00 Students who spend their Summer Vacation at the College are
charged, extra ...........	35 00
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class Books. Stationery, etc , at current prices.
The First S-ssion begins ou the first Tuesday ot September; the Second on the 1st of Fehrnary.
For farther particulars, address
Bev. A. laBKONNXSB; C.S.C.,
-....................... President.
AUTUMN ARRANGEMENT.
rj^RAIXS now leave South Bend as follows:
GOING
Leave Sonth Bend 10 30 a. m. “	“	12.25 p.	m.
‘	“	9.15 p.	m.
“	“	12 35 a. m.
“	“	8.2>i p.	m.
“	“	4.35 p.	m.
GOING
Leave South Bend 4 53 p. m.
“	“	2 55 a. m.
"	“	5.00 a. m.
«	“	505 p m.
“	“	G.37 a.	m.
“	«	8.30 a.	m.
E Ji 8 Tn
ArriveBuffalo 4.05a.m
“	4.05 a. m
“	“ ’ • 1.35 p. m
“	“	5.30 p. m
Runs to Elkhart.
WEST.
Arrive at Chicago 8.20 p. m
•• •’	“	6.50 a.	m
“	«	8.20 a.	m
“	“	9.40 p.	in
“	“	10.30 a.	m
“	“	12.30 p.	m
Making connection with all trains West and North.
IKS'- For full details, see the Company’s posters and time tables at the depot and other public places. '	-
4®* Trains are ruu by Cleveland time, which is 15 minutes foster than South Bend time.
J. H DEVEREUX. General Manager,Cleveland, Ohio.
CHARLES PAINE. General Superintendent, Cleveland.
F. E. MORSE,. General Western Passenger Agent.
J. W. Cap.y, General Ticket Agent, Cleveland, Ohio.
J. S.Nellis, 'ticket Agent,South Bend.	I
<1, M. Tolchakd, Freight Agent. South Bend.
NEW ALBANY CBOSSING.
Io Lafa ette and Louisville.
Going North—Express passenger, 6.C9 p. m.; 8.58 a. m.; 5.29 a.m.
Freights, 6.30 a. m.: 8.'06 p.m.	- '
Going couth—-Express passenger, 8.58 a. m-'; 10.46 a.m.: 9.25p.m.
Freights. 1.00 a.m ; 4.48 at m.	H. N. CAN1FF, Agent.
Chicago, Alton and , St. Louis Line
® RAIN’S leave West'Side Union Depot; Chicago, near Madison Street Bridge, as follows:
St. Louis and Springfield Express, via Main Line ■
Kansas Citj- Fast Express, via Jacksonville, Ill., and Louisiana, Mo. .
Wenona, Lacon and Washington Express (Western Division)
Joliet Accommodation,
St. Louis and Springfield Night Express, via Mairi Line,
St.Louisand Springfield Lightning - Express, via Main Line. ana.
also via Jacksonville Division
Kansas City Express, via Jackson-vill, 1113, ana Louisiana, Mo.
LEAVE.
•9:15 a.m.
♦9:15 a.m.
♦9:15 a.m.
♦4:10 p.m.
+6:30 p.m.
£9:00 p.m.
+9:00 p.m.
ARRIVE.
♦8:00 p.m.
*4:30 p.m,
*4:30 p.m.
♦9:40 a.m.
*4:30 p.m.
17:15 a.m.
§7:15 a.m.
♦ Except Snndav. + On Sunday runs to Springfield only, f Except Saturday. I bail y. § Except Monday.
The onlv road running 3 Express Trains to St. Louis caily, and a Saturday Night Train.
Pullman Palace'Dining and Smoking Cars on all day Trains.
JAMES CHARLTON,	J. C. McMULLIN,
Gen’l Pass, and Ticket Agent,	Gen’l Supenu.undent,
"	CHICAGO.	CHICAGO.
PENNSYLVANIA CENTRAL
DOUBLE TRACK RAILROAD.
/
PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO.
Three daily Express Train*, with Pullman's Palace Cars, are run between Chicago. Pittsburgh. Philadelphia and New
York without Change.
1st train leaves Chicago 9 00 p. m i Arrives at New York 11 30 a. m* 2d train “ .	“	5.15 p.m “	“	6 41a. tn*
3rd train “	’•	9.00 p m |	“	“	11.30 p. m*
.Connections at Crestline with trains North and Sonth. and at
Mannffield with trains on Atlantic and Great. Western Railroad.
J. N. McCULLOUGH. Geu'l Mauager, Pittsburgh.
J. M. C. CREIGHTON. Assistant Supetiuleud.-nt, Pittsburgh.
H. W. GWINNElC, Gen Pass, r.nd Ticket Ag’t. Piuiadelpuie.
F. R. MYErtH. Geu'l Pass, and Ticket Ag’t 1‘ituburgb.
W. C. CLELLAND, Asa't Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
.♦ Second day. .............- -