@ljc	IJcar.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY A.T NOTRE OA.ME. glmteil ta the |ttteeeste of the
“ LABOR OMNIA VINCIT.”
Vol. II.	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, IND., JUNE 5, 1869.	No. 39
Photography.
The term photography, which is derived from the Greek words phon, light, and grapho, I write, signifies a writing or a delineating by means of light, and includes all those operations by which, through the instrumentality of light, a picture may be obtained by means of chemical reagents.
For the discovery of photography, we are equally indebted to L. J. AI. Daguerre and to Joseph Nicephore Niepce, both of whom, unknown to each other, were simultaneously experimenting in the then infant art. In the year 1839, these two great originators of sun-drawing, after having made each other’s acquaintance, entered into partnership, in order that by combining their efforts they might the more effectually mature their idolized explorations.
In 1839, the result of their investigations was published under the title of the daguerreotype process; but not until the French government had secured to Daguerre a pension of six thousand francs a year, and to Isidore Niepce, who on the death of his father became the partner of Daguerre, four thousand francs a year for life. Thus we see that the history of photography, from its discovery to the present time, embraces only a space of about forty years; but yet there is no discovery on record that can boast of such unparalleled success and advancement.
The daguerreotype, which has been the germ of the art, has been of late years superseded, and has now'grown almost into disuse. Its greatest drawbacks are: the lateral inversion of the picture, and the difficulty of viewing it occasioned by the great brightness of the plate. Daguerreotypes are made on plates of silver, or on copper plates coated with silver. The plates are first rubbed with alcohol and rotton-stone until all the scratches and irregularities disappear. They are then polished on a machine
called a buffing-wheel. One of the plates thus prepared is exposed to the fumes of iodine until it assumes a red color, and then to the fumes of bromine until it returns to a bright gray. It is then ready for the reception of the image, or, in other words, a mixed film of iodide and bromide of silver is formed on its surface which is extremely sensitive to light, and will oxidize and turn black on exposure to it. The plate is then taken from the dark-room to the camera, where it re--ceives the impression of whatever is intended to be portrayed. When sufficiently exposed, it is taken back to the dark-room, where the latent image is developed, or made to appear visible, by the vapor of mercury. The next operation is the fixing of the picture. This is done by immersing the plate in a solution of hyposulphite of soda, which dissolves all the iodide and bromide of silver not acted upon by the light. It is then toned with chloride of gold, which imparts to the picture a more lively and agreeable appearance.
After a brief sketch of the origin, progress, and decline of the daguerreotype, we now come to photography proper, the two great divisions of which are: the negative, and the printing process. The negative-departments of the photograph gallery are, the operating-room, and the dark-room. The former is furnished with a skylight, backgrounds, camera*, and such other things as the operator needs; and in the latter are kept the chemicals, and whatever is necessary for the use of the manipulator. Negatives are made on plates of glass. The plate, when cut to the proper size, is cleaned with alcohol and rottenstone, and polished. It is then flowed with sensitized collodion, which is prepared in the following manner: A quantity of pyroxyline or guncotton is immersed in a mixture of ether and alcohol and shaken until it has dissolved. In this state it is called plain collodion, and must be sensitized before it becomes available for photographic purposes. The sensetizers used
306	THESCHOL
ASTIC YEAR.
for this purpose are iodides and bromides. A quantity of each kind, dissolved in. alcohol or water, as the case may be, is mixed with the plain collodion, which, after standing for a day or two, is ready for use. The collodionized plate is next immersed in the silver bath, a solution of nitrate of silver and distilled water containing about forty five grains of silver to the fluid ounce of water. While the. plate remains in the bath it receives a coating of silver which is_ converted into iodide and bromide of silver by means of the iodide and bromide in the collodion film. In this state the plate is extremely sensitive to light, and all subsequent operations, the exposition in the camera excepted, must be performed in the dark-room. The plate is then inserted in the plate-holder, which is a square tablet having a hinged door on one side and a slide on the other both of which must fit so closely as to exclude the light. The tablet containing the sensitized plate is then fixed in its proper place in the , camera, the slide is drawn, and the image of the subject to be photographed, carried through the lenses, is reflected, in focus, upon the sensitive surface. The light thus admitted to the plate forms an oxide of silver wherever it happens to strike it. As soon as it has been sufficiently exposed, it is taken back to the dark-room and flowed with the developing solution, which is a mixture of water, acetic acid and protosulphate of iron.
As soon as the developer has covered the plate, the latent image begins to appear, and step by step it advances until all the outlines become visible. When the operation has proceeded far enough, the plate is held under a stream of water, which stops the advance of the image by removing the iron. The plate is then immersed in the fixing bath of hyposulphite of soda, which dissolves all-the undecomposed iodide and bromide of silver. It is then washed, dried and varnished, and given to the printer.
[to be continued.]
. The most favorable reports reach us from all sides, and we augur from these that the Competitions this year will even surpass in excellence those of last year.
Many Graduates have already responded to the circular letter sent to them by the Secretary of the resident Committee, and propose to be present at the Commencement.
“Dear Erin O!”
BY COZ.
[From the Irish.]
The sun is rising o’er the hills, His rays are sparkling on the rills, Fast roll the chariot’s glowing wheel s, And sad tears flow
Adown my care-worn, sunken cheeks, While gazing on thy sunlit peaks, Thy grassy plains and winding creeks— Bear Erin 0!
I climb the lofty vessel’s side, Like cradle rocking with the tide, To cross the treacherous ocean wide, In grief and wo—
And sighing, view each cherished spot, Each glen and grove, and sacred grot, Which seen but once, are ne’er forgot— Dear Erin Of
The noontide sun now brighter beams, The glassy sea more azure seems, Like snow the billowy canvas gleams, While on we go —
But, fonder, far, fair Isle, to me
Than beaming sun or azure sea
Are the sweet tho’ts of home and thee—
Dear Erin 01
How blest the dwellers in thy vales, Who heed nor sea nor snowi sails, Nor golden orb, whose splendor pales In sunset’s glow—
But toil in peace, or sportive play, Or chant thy poet’s lofty Uy, From dewy morn till close of day— Dear Erin 01
The sun is sinking in the sea, The clouds of night encircle me While musing, all alone, of thee, In silent wo—
But freedom’s star shall gild the skies, To glad again these tearful eyes, And see thee, Phoenix-like, arise—	'■
Dear Erin 0!
My fathers’ home—my native land— Proud mother of the bravest band That ever ata chief’s command ,	Drew blade or bow.—
The Saxon’s grasp doth now profane, As erst did that of pirate Dane, But vengeance shall be thine again— Dear Erin 01
---------»1	11---------
Our Exchanges.
Prominent among our numerous exchanges we are happy to rank the Yale Literary Magazine, and its companion, The College Courant. The former, a monthly, enters upon its thirty-fourth year, hale and hearty, with a new corps of editors and with renewed vigor. The Patriarch of the
------------ —	.	....—-j.

THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	307
race, it wears its honors gracefully, and, like Atlas supporting the ponderous globe, bears with dignity the weighty burden of many revolving years.
Its raison d'etre may be inferred from the classical motto that graces its title page:
“Dum mens grata manet, nomen laudesque Valenses Cantabunt SoboleS unanimique Patres.”
The principal articles in the May No. are: “Knee-breeches—The Lit.’s Raison d'etre—Winter —Rats—Old China—Light Reading—A New Comedy of an Old Error—Can I be a Gentleman —Secret Societies—Memorabilia—Editors’ Table —Editors’ Greeting.”
The second, a rather robust weekly, can boast of almost as many leaves as a birch-tree, and certainly bears more refreshing fruit! Its cheering motto, “ Perseverantia omnia vincit,” is somewhat akin to our “Libor omnia vincit'' and both are . well worthy being written in letters of gold, and imprinted upon the heart and mind of every toiler in the broad field of literature; but “ hie labor, hoc opus est!"
That both hebdomadal and mensal may live long and happily, in the enjoyment of many a “Scholastic Year,” is the sincere wish of “Notre Dame”!
Cojl.jl.egm: Bulletin.
Tables of Honor.
Senior Department.
May 23th.—J. Edwards, A. Reilly, E. Thomas, D. Tighe, H. Schnelker, T. Kinsella, J. Carroll, L. Schmeider, J. Cunnea, D. J. Diemer.
Junior Department.
May 28th.—F. Curtis, H. Hayes, J. Coppinger, J. Deehan, W. Odendahl, C. J. O’Neil, H. Morgan, C. Hutchings, G. Combs, H. Breckweg, J. Ward.
Associated Alumni.
Notre Dame, May 25th, 1869.
At a special meeting of the Standing Committee of the Associated Alumni, called by order of the chairman, it was resolved that a report of the proceedings of the meeting and the rules and regulations of the Association be published anew-in The Scholastic Year, and that a copy be sent to all the members, that there
may exist no doubt as to the day on which the banquet will take place and the time and place of the formal reception and business meeting. The banquet will take place on Tuesday, the 22d of June. The day will open with solemn Mass at 6 o’clock: the reception will be held in the large parlor of the College, at 9% o’clock; the business meeting will commence at 10 o’clock, and the banquet at 1 o’clock P. M., to be followed by dramatic performances in the evening. .A committee of reception was appointed, consisting of Rev. M. B. Brown, Profs. Lyons, Ivers, Stace, Baasen and Johnson.	. .	. -
After discussing some details, unimportant to the public, the meeting adjourned. .
M. T. Corby,
Sec'y of Standing.Committee.
Minutes of the Alumni at which the Constitution was adopted.
On Thursday, at 10^ A M., June 23d, 1868, the Alumni assembled in the President’s parlor for the purpose of organizing an association to be known as the “ Associated Alumni of Notre Dame University.” Rev. Wm. Corby, President of the University, was, by acclamation, appointed’C hairman, and Rev. N. H. Gillespie Secretary pro tem. Having proceeded to the election of officers, .it resulted as follows: .
President—Rev. N. H. Gillespie, A M., Notre Dame, Indiana. _	...	,
1st Vice-President—F. Bigelow, A M., Dayton, Ohio.	.	. .
2nd VicePresident—J. B., Runnion, A M., Chicago, Illinois.	.
Treasurer—Prof. J. A Lyons, A. M., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Secretary—Prof. M. T. Corby, A M., Detroit, Mich.
Orator for next Commencement—Rev. E. B. Kilroy, A. M., Port Sarnia, Canada. Alternate— James O’Brien, A. M., Galena, HI.
Poet—Prof. T. E. Howard, A. M., Notre Dame. Alternate—Prof. A. J. Stace, A. M., Notre Dame.
The Constitution as handed in by the .Secretary of the Standing Committee was then discussed, altered and amended, and now stands- as follows:	.
The name of the Association shall be the “Associated Alumni of the University of Notre Dame. ”
The object of the Association is defined to be: To preserve and strengthen the common tie that
1
308
THE SCHOLASTIC TEAR.
binds ns to each other and Alma Mater, by means of yearly reunions and by literary correspondence.
The regular yearly meeting to take place on that Tuesday in the month of June next preceding the Annual Commencement of the University, when the order of business will be as follows:
Calling of the roll.
Elections. First, of members, according to the conditions of eligibility specified below. (Members thus elected will be invited to attend the same meeting.) Second, of the officers of the Society, to consist of a President, two Vice-Presidents, Treasurer, Secretary, Orator and Poet, with their alternates, for the coming year. The first five of these officers to be chosen from among the regular graduates; the last four, namely the Orator and Poet,with alternates, from among the members in general.
The meeting to conclude with a sumptuous banquet, with commemorations of absent and departed friends.
. The Orator and Poet to exercise their talents, in the departments assigned them respectively, at the Annual Commencement Exercises one year from the time of their election, and their effusions to be published, with the general statistics of the Association, in an Annual Report.
Membership.—1st. All, regular graduates in the Classical and Scientific courses of Notre Dame University, and all who have received honorary degrees, are members ipso facto.
2d. All those who have ever held the offices of President, Vice-President or Prefect of Studies in the University are members ipso facto.
3d. All who have been actively connected with the University as Professors or Students are eligible as members. The election to be by a three-fourths’ ballot of those voting.
The members present at the regular meeting shall be the voters for officers and members.
The annual fee shall consist of ten dollars.
The members of the Association resident at the University of Notre Dame shall constitute a Standing Committee to receive communications, transact the general business of the Association, and hand in its Report at the yearly meeting.
The President of the University shall be the Chairman of the Standing Committee.
The members are requested to attend a Mass on the day of meeting, celebrated in behalf of all the members, living and dead, of the Association.
Resolved, that the list of Graduates be prepared and published in the Catalogue, together with the report of the meeting. Rev. N. H. Gil
lespie, Prof. Howard and Rev. T. L. Vagnier were appointed a committee to select an appropriate badge and motto.
Rev. J. C. Carrier was then elected a member of the Association; and on motion the meeting adjourned.	M. T. Corby,
Sec’y of the Associated Alumni.
Mary the only Queen of May.
By an old Contributor.
Why bud and bloom, ye flowers ?
Why from your thuribles of tight, Upon the air w.th sunshine fair Ca?t ye the incense of your prayer ?
Why, perfumes, seek the azure bight? Wny smile. O earth, ’mid crystal showers ?
Now, music, like the sound That on the day of Pentecost, With gentle force from heavenly source, Took its benign transforming course Where God’s beloved in prayer profound
Awaited thee, O Holy Ghost i
Music from slender bells	''
That cluster on the Lilac stem;
Front Crocus pale, that scents the gale, From fragrant Lily of the vale,— Music arose from each of them, And still their thrilling anthem swells.
The Heliotrope and Rose,
The pendant, trembling, Bleeding Heart The Fuschia too, and Pansy blue, And every flower that drinks the dew,
Still chant aloud their noble part In pean nevermore to close.
“ And what sing they ?” ye ask.
O human language, weak and faint, Ye have no tone that ear hath known, No dialect of either zone,
To well translate. Angel or saint Alone were worthy of the task.
’Tis music in the praise
Of Mary, Queen of sky and s°a. Queen '■'full of grace," whose royal face No artist-hand can justly trace, And yet whose loving cate is free As the warm sun’s benignant rays.
O Mary! would my tongue Had heavenly eloquence untold To teach the race thy peerless grace, With power no power could e’er efiace !
Then would I bind with bands of gold All hearts to serve thee, old and young.
?
Sing on then, glorious flowers 1 The pure of heart can hear your song.
The false and gay may turn away To crown some other queen of May, But unto Mary doth belong
The homage of these hearts of ours.
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	'	303~
' St. Angela’s Day at St. Mary’s Academy.
The lovely Month of May has gone, to be numbered with the past, but not before leaving many pleasing recollections—among which the celebration of St. Angela’s Feast, at St. Mary’s, on the 31st, was the last though by no means the least.
It has been a custom for years with the young ladies to manifest in a public manner their love and esteem for one whose name is identified with the prosperity, the continued success and, we might add, the very existence of St. Mary’s Academy, Mother Angela, Superioress of the Sisters of Holy Cross in the United States.
The pupils of the present year are as quick to perceive and as ready and willing to reward, as far as they are able, every effort made for their advancement in that knowledge which will make them exemplary Christians—dutiful children, faithful wives and model mothers. The joy that sparkled in every eye, and lit up every face,— to say nothing of the merry peals of joyous laughter,—told us as plainly as did the poetic verse or stately period, that they were truly happy because it was their “ Mother’s Feast.”
We were among the privileged few who were not only witnesses to, but partakers in, this “ feast of beauty and flow of soul.”
Imagine your “ occasional correspondent” about six o’clock that evening seated, in company with Rev. guests before a sumptuous board, with the very best of the season on every side and claiming his attention.
I think I hear you say “Pity he did’nt forget to take dinner.” ’Twas indeed; but you know my memory’s best just before meals.
Reluctantly leaving the delicious strawberries and luscious bananas, we walked for half an hour through the gardens and along the banks of the river, and were regaled (figuratively of course) by the enchanting scenery of the place. A signal from the chaplain cut short our reverie, and in a moment we were entering the beautiful study hall, which echoed with sweet notes of a “ March” by the Misses Tong. Then came addresses from the Senior, Junior, and Minim departments, the “ French Address” and the “ Greeting from the Children of Mary” each replete with good wishes, and kind words of encouragement and all pervaded by a spirit of genuine piety. We don’t wish to make distinctions, because Mrs. Partington says “ they are odorous;” still, no one will feel
slighted or jealous if we say that little Annie Garrity deserves the palm for her earnest and natural manner of delivery.
Do not imagine, gentle reader, that these addresses all came hotch-potch as I have jotted them down; no indeed. That wonderful voice of Miss Smythe’s was at intervals heard, and elicited the admiration of those who have had the pleasure of hearing it from time to time; and it was appreciated even more than ever before. Then there was a fine “Fantasia,” from Abb6 Liszt, by Miss Edith Lilly, and a solo from Mendelssohn by Miss Arrington. But we must hasten to the tableau, or tableaux, representing, as Miss Ella Ewing told us in a Prologue, six scenes in the life of “ Mary, Queen of Scots,”—the most highly ex-1 tolled and at the same time most maliciously maligned Queen of any age or nation.
The first"scene, “The Infant Queen and her miniature Court playing at Royalty,” was so well done that we feared that “ the best of the wine had been served at the first of the feast.” But we were too happily disappointed, as each tableau was fully as good if not better than the previous one. Truly little Annie Clarke looked like an artless little queen ; but those who represented the “ Scottish Queen” in the subsequent scenes were quite as well adapted to their characters and as faithfully enacted their parts The tableau of the “ Offering to Our Lady of the Sacred Heart” would require a poet or a painter, perhaps a poet-painter, to portray it perfectly; and, as I am neither, you wilt have to excuse me from even an attempt to describe it. The feelings excited in me, and I would venture to say in all, were those of real piety: and filial devotion to Mary. If, mused I, Miss Carpenter—a devout client of Mary, no doubt—could so perfectly personate her heavenly Mother; what must the original look like as she received the homage of the heavenly court? Andas for little'Miss Henry, who represented the “Child Jesus,” she. looked the very personification of innocence and , humility.
Such tableaux are as welcome to us poor piL : grims as are the gurgling springs to the wayworn traveller of the desert. Can we not have such as this at the Annual Commencement?
An “overture,” from Mozart and the “Song of May,” by the Vocal Class, closed the programme for the evening. No! One other feature was “ The closing remarks,” by the Rev. guests. Rev. Father Sullivan, of Delphi, Ind., in a very nice speech, complimented the young
310
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
ladies on the success of their entertainment, and congratulated the Rev. Mother on her festal day. The speaker showed the true sphere of woman, her high and holy vocation, and rejoiced that there were some in those days of “woman’s rights” who really appreciated their duty and sacrificed all to devote themselves to the true elevation of woman to her proper sphere. Purity, fidelity and devotedness were virtues taught by example as well as precept in the convent schools.
Rev. Father Gillespie, in answer to a call, said he was sorry that both Very Rev. Father Provincial and Father Superior were unavoidably ab
sent,—having, however, sent their kind greetings to all. As for himself, he was pleased, as who would not be, and begged to subscribe to what his friend Father Sullivan had said. He, of„ course, always bragged up the College exhibitions, but hereafter they (the College boys) must do better than they have yet done, to justify him in future comparisons. . But he was afraid that he would trespass too much on their time, as he knew others wanted, to say something, and he would yield to Father Lemonnier, who, after complimenting the pupils on their success, and good Mother Angela on her feast, among her happy, loving children, very naively turned the tables on one of his friends (he has done so previously,)—by saying that Father Spillard was anxious to say some nice things, and he would not deny him the pleasure. Was he, Father S., in “ Fairie land ?” Surely the fairy scenes and silvery voices and enchanting strains were not realities? Were those not fairy voices that so sweetly warbled ?— and enchanted harps, touched by fairy fingers? He thought they were, and said that if he could speak the fairy language he would praise, but would’risk a few words, and finished by wishing that the 31st of May would come round quartei ly, and be celebrated as this one had been.
Father Vagnier said that scarcely anything remained for him to say, so much had been said already, and well said,—yet, the beautiful tableaux he had seen here on similar occasions had left pleasant memories, as those he had seen-tonight would not fail to do. .
Father Letourneau, the chaplain, in behalf of Mother Angela and the young ladies, returned many-thanks to the Rev. guests for the pleasure of their company, and hoped all would enjoy many such pleasant fetes. But the hour was already come for retiring, thinking all needed rest and the young ladies a limited, recreation next day. The restrictions were thought obnoxious
by Father Gillespie, in which opinion he was sustained by the young ladies, and, by common consent, “ Recreation ” was the order of the next day.	•	•
x-TAswe wended our way college-wards how many happy' hearts, we thought, are at St. Mary’s tonight ; how almost incalculable is the good accomplished in a school like this, where virtue and knowledge go hand-in-hand, and where the humble religieuse is fitting the brightest ornaments for Christian society, and, what is better, pure souls for heaven.
\	_	“ Occasional.” .
A Few Classical Remarks.
Some criticism has been provoked lately by the use of the word cyclorcheonis in one of our programmes. It has been said that it cannot be found in Webster’s Unabridged, and is therefore a barbarism. This is a mere cavil. Who was Webster, we should like to know ?—and what are the claims which oblige us to pin our faith to his sleeve? The word cyclorcheosis is regularly derived and compounded from the original Greek, and signifies a circular dance—kuklos, circle; orcheomai, to dance. We have other words derived from each of these component parts. What student has not heard of a cycle—a cycloid—a cyclone—a cyclops—a cyclopaedia?— not to speak of the Ku klux so ably analyzed by Tyko in a Scholastic of last year. And from orcheomai we have “orchestra;” for all the ancient Greek orchestras used to dance. Dancing, in fact, was only discontinued on the introduction of the big fiddle, which was found to impede the saltatory movements of the performers. The inconvenience, however, might have been obviated by attaching a castor, or pantagraph wheel to the lower extremity of the violincello; and we can hardly imagine anything more effective than a solemn hornpipe performed by the leader of the orchestra, beating time with his violin bow, and followed in succession by all the fiddles, large and small, their performers carefully imitating all the gyrations of the leader. A tragedy thus accompanied would be tragedy indeed, and would immortalize the hardy individual who first attempted this improvement on the old fogy style. A grand wheelbarrow dance might conclude the whole. •
While on a classical subject, we may be allowed to animadvert to the derivation of .a common ex
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
311

pression usually regarded as mere slang. “It does not amount to a hill of beans” is a forcible way of giving your conviction of the unimportance of something regarded by your adversary in argument as eminently consequential. Now take a good etymological Latin dictionary and look for the word nihilum. You will find that although it means “nothing” there is a great deal to be said about it. In the first place you are informed that it is derived from ne and hilum; and, on looking for hilum, you perceive its ancient and original meaning to be “ the black speck or mark on a bean, where it was attached to the pod or shell.” Does not this throw a little light on the subject? “Not even the hilum of a bean ” was the old classical synonym for “ nothing.” If they said blamelessly “it does not amount to the hilum of a bean,” can we be accused of slang for saying “it does hot amount to a hill of beans ?”
The similar expression : “ It does not amount to a row of pins,” is not classical, and is unfortunately disguised by the mispronunciation of the word “ row.” It aught to be “ row,” a disturbance—not “row,” a series or array. Perhaps the most frequent source of disturbance in the course of education is the sticking of pins by malevolence into the occupants of neighboring seats. A “ row ” of pins in our time was a matter of daily, and we may say hourly, occurrence, but its very frequency communicated to it a sort of insignificance which warranted the use of the expression “ It does not amount to a row of pins” on occasion of any disturbance of .small importance.
If a similar pronunciation of the word “ row” were adopted by our “ Social Rowing Club ” it would add much to the significance of their appellation. A social “ row ” oh the lake, however, would then—though exhilarating—become somewhat dangerous, and should be confined exclusively to members of the club. Even these might be attached to life-preservers before venturing to engage in the “row.” But this is a digression.	S.
—-------
The “Memorial” which is intended to be published at the occasion of the Silver Jubilee is nearly ready, thanks to the energetic attention of the gentlemen to whom the success of the work was intrusted, also to the publishers, Messrs. Myers & Chandler, of Chicago. The book will be enriched with beautiful engravings of Notre Dame as it was of old and as it is now, and also with fine plates representing persons whose life
has been long identified with that of the- University.
The “Memorial”—of over 275 pages—will be replete with interesting matter.
The Examination will be proceeded with on the plan laid out at the last February Examination. The same number of questions and system of noting will be observed for the Oral Examination. The Written Examination will be
gin on the 11th inst., and will last_two__days. The Oral Examination will begin on Monday,
14th inst., and will last the whole week.
The lists of Boards of Examiners will be pub- I lished in our next number, as also statistics of—»
the Classes, Societies, Clubs, etc.
Special arrangements will be made with the officers of the M. S. & N. I. Railroad to accom
modate our visitors at the Commencement Day. The liberal views of the gentlemen who preside over this excellent road induce us to believe that
they will do all in their power to render the trip to Notre Dame an easy and pleasant one. We do not wish to recommend to our friends, in a special manner, any one of the hotels of South Bend: we think that the attentions paid to our visitors in the past are their best recommendation. As new hotels have been opened since a year, we have no doubt that ample room will be found to satisfy all the demands.
The Secretaries of Societies, Clubs, etc, are requested to send without delay, to Prof. J. A. Lyons, the lists of officers of said Societies and Clubs.
Rev. Father Sullivan honored the members of the St. Cecilia Society with his presence in their meeting-room.
^AINT ^ARY’S JUaDEMY.
Reception of Very Rev. Father General.
St. Mary’s Academy, May 25, ’69.
The announcement of the safe arrival of our Very Rev. Father General sent a thrill of joy through many hearts. Old and young, from the highest officials to the smallest child in the Min-nim department, gave vent to the delight and satisfaction felt on seeing once more our beloved and venerated Father.
The pupils of St. Mary’s could not possibly wait till the time appointed for his formal reception at thatinstitution, but as soon as the big
I
312
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
I
r
bell announced his arrival they hurried over to Notre Dame, to get a glimpse of one who finds x his greatest delight in being surrounded by the young and innocent.
After receiving a smiling recognition from our venerable Father, as he passed into the church at Notre Dame to return thanks to God for his safe arrival, the pupils also entered and joined in the prayer of thanksgiving. Then all returned to prepare for the reception.
In the afternoon of the 28th a procession was formed composed of the members of the community and the pupils of the Academy. This procession went out to meet Very Rev. Father and escort him to the flower-garden known as the “ Rosary Circle,” where a summer-house had been prepared and decorated for his reception.
During the procession appropriate hymns and songs of greeting were sung.
On arriving at the summer-house, addresses were read from the different Departments of the school. Those from the Graduates and Seniors were expressive of their reverence and joy; those from the Minim Department 'Were, as usual, marked by a tone of playful familiarity and sense ofself-importancethatseemed to amuse Very Rev. Father, who, by the great notice he takes of those little people, makes them imagine they are privileged beings. D	O
The address from the Graduate Class was read
weather which he seemed to have brought- from “La Belle France"—those being the first really spring days we have enjoyed since the commencement of “ Beautiful May.” Their request being granted, the committee soon spread the news, and “ Recreation ” was telegraphed through every Department—and “ Long live our dear and venerated Father General ” was the fervent wish of each and every one of his numerous young friends.
Tables of Honor, Jr.
Misses M. Letourneau, J. Watson, A. Clarke, N. Gross, L. Jones, L Niel, L. and M. McNamara, A. Byrne, A. and A. Garrity, B. Henry, N. Scrie-by, M. O’Meara.
Honorable Mention.
2^ Preparatory.—Misses R. Leoni, S. Hoover, A. Woods. 3d Preparatory Class.—Ida Wilder, L. McFarlane, L Thomson, L. James, A. Robson, A. Metzger, B. Wade, B. Myers, M. Hoover.
First Junior Class.—B. Frensdorf, F. Taylor, A Longley, B. Wilson, R. Canoil, M. Roberts, M. Gildersleeve.
Second Juaior Class.—M. Reynolds, E. Barnsdall, N. Price, N. and C. Henry.
by Miss E. Crouch ; that from the Senior Department by Miss Mulhall. The Juniors were represented by .Misses L. McNamarra, A. Clark, and L. Niel. The Minims by little Bridget Wilson, E. Randal and C. Henry.
The addresses and greetings over, Very Rev. Father made some very kind and appropriate remarks, and assured those present that Tie felt quite as much joy at seeing them all well and happy as they could possibly feel at his safe return.
After receiving his blessing all returned to the house, and soon after reassembled in the chapel to assist at Vespers and Benediction.
Very Rev. Father was accompanied by an illustrious visitor from France, Dom Jaussion, a Benedictine Father of the Abbey of Solesmes, and also by many of the Rev. Fathers of Notre Dame. These all assisted at the Vespers. It has been some time since our humble chapel presented so imposing an array of Rev. Clergy. .
Vespers over, a number of the pupils called on Very Rev. Father and presented a petition for a few hours’ freedom from class duties on the next day, that they might enjoy the bright sunny