Votre Dame Scholastic.
Disco Quasi semper vieturus 5 vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume XII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JULY 12, 1879.
Number 44.
The Whip-poor-will.
HENRY S. CORNWELL.
When apple-branches flushed with bloom Load June’s warm evenings with perfume, And balmier grows each perfect day, And rarely smells the new-mown hay, Then, minstrel lone, I hear thy note, Up from the pasture-thickets float—
Whip-poor-will!
Thine are the hours to love endeared, And summoned by thy accents weird, What wild regrets—what tender pain, Recall my youthful dreams again, As floating down the shadowy years, That old refrain fond memory hears— Whip-poor-will!
The garish day inspires thee not; But hid in some deep-shaded grot, Thou like a sad recluse dost wait The silver hours inviolate, When every harsher sound is flovn, And groves and glens are thine alo." P
Whip-poor-will!
Then, when the rapt, voluptuous night Pants in the young moon’s tender light, And woods, and cliffs, and shimmering streams, Are splendid in her argent beams— How thrills the lover’s heart to hear Thy loud staccato, liquid-clear, Whip-poor-will!
Whence comes thy iterated phrase, That to the wondering ear conveys Half-human sound, yet cheats the sense With vagueness of intelligence, And, like a wandering voice of air, Haunts the dim fields, we know not where, Whip-poor-will!
—Scribner for July.
God’s Providence in Human History.
The following is the introduction to a treatise in German entitled “ The History of the German People Compared with Cotemporaneous Events and those of the Old Testament,” with which the author has favored the Scholastic :
God has always been, and forever will be, the absolute Master of His own creation. In His infinite wisdom He has placed in this world reasonable as well as brute creatures. The former have either the quality of spirits, as the good and the wicked angels, and the immortal souls of men
passed out of this life; or they are beings in whom, the spirit is united with a material body, as in the human race inhabiting our planet. Whether other planets of our solar system are peopled by creatures similar to ourselves, has not yet been ascertained.
All reasonable creatures have been endowed by God with a free will that enables them to make their choice between obedience and disobedience to their Creator; in short, to choose between virtue and vice, good and evil. Lucifer and a third part of all the angels chose the evil part by committing the sin of disobedience. According to a pious tradition, they refused adoration to the Sacred Humanity of the Son of God. For this they became devils, doomed to eternals pains in the fiery abyss. Even Mahomet in his Koran makes allusion to the disobedience of the fallen angels, saying that God commanded Eblis, then the first of all the angels, to worship Adam, the first of men, and as Eblis refused to obey this order he was cast at once into hell. Our first parents, Adam and Eve, fell also, giving way to the allurements of the serpent. But God had mercy on them, and on their offspring the human race. He promised them a Saviour, no less a person than His only begotten Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord and Redeemer.
From the time of original sin to the end of the world, the history of mankind has produced and will produce the sublime spectacle of Divine forbearance and love, struggling with human depravity. “All the ways of man are open to His eyes. The Lord is the weigher of spirits.”—Prov. xvi, 2. God does not desire evil to be done, but He_cannotprevent wicked spirits-and.badjnen from committing sin, without annihilating their free will. But in His infinite love and "^wisdom, God makes use of the inevitable sins committed in this world partly to counteract their evil consequences, and to bring some good out of them, partly to punish the wicked by the consequences of their own^crimes. This action on the part of God, conducted in wisdom, justice and love, is called His Divine Providence. In what manner God is able to produce infinite good out of the vilest crimes ever committed by sinful men could be no more clearly proved than by the suffering and death of our Divine Saviour bringing about the redemption of all mankind. A celebrated German historian, Count Stolberg, has written the following sublime passage: “We are not able to comprehend, with our weak reasoning powers, why the human race had to wait more than four thousand years for the promised Redeemer; why God during this period doomed all men, with the exception of a single family, to perish in the deluge; or why it came to pass that God allowed the nations not warned by the deluge, after being scattered over the entire globe, to follow up their sinful ways. We do not know the reason why He selected but one man,
682
> 1
'I
i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Abraham, to whom He revealed Himself, as He did after-1 wards to his son and his grandson, calling Himself after I these patriarchs the God of Abraham, of Isaac and’ of Jacob, to whom He promised the plenitude of His bounty that was to come down first upon their offspring, the people of Israel, and to go out from this chosen people, like a blessing dew spreading over all nations of the world. All this cannot be understood by our weak reason and judgment.”
One of our more recent authors, the saintly and learned Father Faber, gives us the following beautiful lines: “ Not only are we unable to proceed of ourselves to anything like true or reasonable conjecture of any of God’s future and unexampled operations, but what God does, is so unlike what we should have expected Him to do, and full of significancy so completely at variance with the genius of our finite minds or our natural principles of conduct, that we are apparently unable to grasp them and to fuse them into our own understanding.”
But one thing we know of God for certain: it is, that He desires the salvation of every human being. Yet, human nature has been so corrupted by original sin that we are unable to work out our own salvation without the grace of God, and hence we may conclude that God furnishes every man with that amount of grace necessary to gain eternal happiness. Now every individual is obliged to cooperate with this divine grace, by following a peculiar vocation that has been allotted to him by Divine Providence. Since every individual has particular graces and a distinct vocation, we may reasonably conclude that every nation must have its singular graces, and a particular vocation to be accomplished in the history of mankind. We quote again some beautiful lines written by Faber on this subject: “In like manner does He deal with different nations. Each national character has its own grace, and a certain corresponding work to do for God in the history of humanity. The natural virtues of each nation have their reward, as Roman justice and truth were crowned with inordinate length of empire; neither is it impossible that the huge empire of the Anglo-Saxon blood and tongue may have some similar interpretation. There may once have been some natural good in us, whose benediction we have not quite outlived. The history of each nation tells of divine chastisements, in which, however, at the time, the Hand of God was barely recognized. Each nation has had its own witnesses sent to it, such as suited it and appealed to it in the most congenial way. Each has had the Gospel come to its shores after the fashion it liked best. Each has had, and when it needed them, its saints, its doctors, its holy kings, its wars, its peace, its plenty and its dearth; and eich and all these things doled out with wisdom, with love, with peculiar significancy, with choice, with preference, and with intention. Yet it was hidden at the time. On looking back, and studying the chronicles of our country, we can each of us see that it is in its way a repetition of the Old Testament, a series of providential interpositions, a guiding hand directing its vicissitudes and controlling its reactions and invigorating its progress, God is manifest everywhere. But our an oestors, if they saw it at all, saw it only indistinctly at the time.”	‘
For the student of history it must be an interesting task thus to review the annals of his own nation and to draw a comparison between its historical events and corresponding events of the Old Testament,
Valedictory.
-	BY MISS HOPE BUSSELL.
Read at the 24th Annual Commencement Exebcises of St. Maby’s Academy, Notbe Damb, Ind.
How sweet this scene! how joyous to behold Revered and loved ones all assembled here, To honor by their gracious presence those On whom our Alma, Mater now bestows Her prized rewards and honors choice and high 1 O happy day, for which our hearts have longed With all a schoolgirl’s ardent, eager hope!
And now ’tis here, the great Commencement Day,— That in our dear sequestered little world.
Is freighted with an import truly great.
Yet on this day so eagerly desired, So full of long anticipated joy, ‘ Hearts there are whose tenderest chords give forth A sad, sad strain, for ’tis the parting day, The day we leave the teachers, scenes, and friends, Endeared by years of holiest intercourse.
The past so fresh on memory’s sacred page Stands out in bold relief, and we must gaze With grateful, loving eyes upon that page One moment ere we leave these scenes so loved. The pleasant fields where memory loved to roam Are rich with thoughts of happy schooldays spent ’Mid dear St. Mary’s pleasant halls and groves; And every tender reminiscence brings A sense of thankfulness for favors past.
O power of memory! ever fruitful source Of pleasures pure! ’tis thine to make past joy More joyous by thy silver halo thrown . O’er bygone scenes. Of present time there’s none. For ere the watchful mind its stations mark, What seems the present has become the past. Thus reminiscences must ever be Not useless dreams of years forever gone, But source from which we draw rich treasures rare Of sacred wisdom learned ’mid happy scenes, And human science too wherewith to meet With modest confidence our future needs . And daily duties of our future life.
And when life’s trials come, we all shall turn To memory’s storehouse for consoling thoughts; And should temptations come, oh, then we’ll place Pure pictures of the past before our eyes, Presenting to our minds in forms distinct Most noble models, who in turn present Most beautiful ideals of human life, Refining minds and hearts that love them well; With visionary forms of which we dream In listless mood, but for high purpose given As incentive to noble, useful aims.
Christian Philosophy we have been taught;
Its lofty principles engraved on hearts Whose constant duty it shall ever be To use with skill those tests and standards true; To prove and weigh our principles and deeds. We have not the presumption to suppose That going forth into the busy world Its ways we’ll change, its evils we ’ll repair. On pleasure-seeking world of fashion we May look as on a panoramic view, Of which we form no part We’ll seek our joy ’Mid cheerful scenes where love and friendship reign ; Thus each may humbly hope her place to fill In a pure home whose comfort, light and joy	•
Itjwill be her happy duty to become,
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	683
And there in holy love and fear of God Devote herself with pure, unselfish zeal To those who need her labor or her love, In hopeful trust that God will bless her work. Thus solid lessons of the past shall ne’er Like useless creaking hinges rusty grow For want of daily use ; but with the oil Of active duty we shall try to make Each lesson of the past most useful prove In all vicissitudes that time shall bring. With diffidence of self and trust in God, These earnest promises we willing make, And offer as a loving votive wreath Fond memory places on the lovely shrine Of gratitude and pure affection true; The shrine erected in our thankful hearts To those beloved, revered, devoted ones Who’ve labored for our good so Jealously, Whose wisdom and devotedness have been Our help, our stay, our sweet encouragement In all our efforts in the upward path	•
Of science, virtue, and of self-control.
God we must thank with gratitude supreme, Then our loved parents whose wise choice secured Such reminiscences of youthful days Spent ’mid bright scenes of peaceful, harmless joy, Refining culture and improving toil.
Dear, generous parents! may your daughters prove So faithful to the promises here made That every anxious care for us endured Shall meet its own deserved, desired reward— A grateful child’s appreciative love.
And now we turn to those who’ve truly filled Our parents’ sacred place with patient care. Our Reverend Father-General, please accept The thanks of those who owe so much to you. Your kind, paternal, heart-inspiring words Have urged us upward in the steep ascent, Excelsior heights by earnest work to gain. To you, most Reverend Father, well belongs The filial gratitude which children owe To the honored father whose counsels wise Enrich their hearts and minds with wisdom true; Our gratitude with earnest wishes blend, Long life, good health, and power to raise Dear Notre Dame in great magnificence.
Accept our thanks, accept our wishes true, Our Reverend teacher of Philosophy;
Our Mental Science we have learned from you; Your care our youthful minds to luminate Deserves our thanks. May we reward your toil By rightly using all the light we’ve gained. Mother Superior, on the golden page Of memory’s precious record, thy dear name And elevating, soul-refining words Are traced in lines too deep to be effaced.
Our.words but feebly can express the thanks We owe you for the constant zeal and care With which you’ve legislated for our good. The name of mother has a special charm For children exiled from their mother’s home; In you a mother we have always found, With all the traits a mother’s love displays; Accept our heartfelt thanks, you’ve earned them well. Mother Assistant, you to us have been Devoted teacher, guide and mother true;
Your efforts to improve our minds and hearts Have won our grateful love; your name shall be E’er linked with scenes of highest, purest joy. Dear Teachers kind, dear Prefects, faithful, true, No thanks of ours can e’er your toil repay: Unceasing labors and untiring-zeal
Have earned a higher boon than human praise ;— But let us thank you for your patient care. Dear, joyous schoolmates, we shall not forget Our happy intercourse of years gone by;
Your names in future shall the key-note give To pleasant reminiscences of youth.
Thanks for the sunshine you have helped to shed Around our path. May all success attend Your earnest efforts to be good and wise I Dear, loving classmates, what a tender tie Now binds our hearts! together we have shared The toils, the fears, the hopes, the triumphs too Of school-girl life. At last with joy we’ve reached The long desired goal. This day shall be To us a point in life to which we ’ll turn With satisfaction pure and harmless pride.
Oh, may this Class of ’79 e’er be A cause of joy to all who love us well! And may our scoool-girl friendship now so strong Grow stronger, closer, by the lapse of years.
From these most pleasing thoughts we now must turn, For ’tis the moment when with swelling hearts To school-girl joys and friends we bid adieu.
Our venerated Father-General, you " Will bless and pray for us, that we may prove E’er faithful to your counsels good and wise. Your holy words shtdl ever treasured be. Father beloved, revered, farewell, farewell! Reverend Chaplain, your name shall ever be In kind remembrance held; farewell, farewell! Mother Superior, whose kind, gentle voice Has cheered, consoled, the memory of your words Shall dwell with us like music of the heart Oh, let your earnest prayers e’er follow us! Mother so generous, patient, true, farewell I To the dear Assistant Mother whose kind care Has fostered in our minds and hearts the love Of truth and knowledge, we now say, farewell! Your patient kindness we shall not forget. To Teachers, Prefects, all endeared to us By daily intercourse and kindly deeds, . -We bid adieu with grateful, loving hearts.
Farewell, dear classmates 1 classmates all, farewell! No more on earth our voices all shall blend In morning prayer, or oft-sung evening hymn. ■ Farewell to dear St Mary’s halls and lovely groves; Farewell to all her pleasant, shady nooks, Her winding walks, St. Joseph’s silvery stream Upon whose cool green banks we’ve loved to roam; Farewell oh sacred shrine, Loretto dear, Where oft God’s blessing on our work we sought,— To these dear sacred spots, to all, farewell I
Candles and Other Light Subjects.
[The South-Bend Sunday News has a piquant literary contributor, “ Malcolm Duncan,” understood to be the editor’s sister, whose fascinating society-sketches would make the fortune of an ambitious metropolitan correspondent. We here reproduce “Malcolm’s Musings” for this week. The allusion to the candle lit banqueting hall, “not two hundred or more than two miles away,” can be localized by many of our readers—and hence the propriety of the article in this connection.]
“ How far that little candle throws its beams I
So shines a good deed in a naughty world.”
Now if all the Mrs. Bric-a-bracs would do a good deed each time they purchase a new candlestick, what an amount of worthy actions would be done and what a general
684
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
moral illumination there would be in the world! For the modem drawing-room is, to use a paradox of Irishism, nothing if not antique, and candles, being an adjunct of the middle ages, must light up its sconces, its plaques, its dados and its broken teacups in a mild, waxy manner. The pre-Raphaelite dame who trails her neutral tinted robes over polished floors and warms her lily fingers by burning back-logs and real andirons, must, to be consistent, set off her charms of face and figure by the glory that falls from burning wax. Some people, who find gas more convenient and cleanly, retain but the semblance of-the prevailing mania and have the gas fixtures made to perfectly imitate the more artistic candelabra. I wonder what Ruskin would say to that!
Candles are, as the world and ages go, a new invention. One is surprised to learn that the “candlesticks” mentioned in the Bible were lamps used for burning olive oil, the error being in translation. The Greeks and Romans had no candlesticks, only the old household lamps that excavators have made so familiar to our eyes. The middle ages, however, brought the candlemaking art to great perfection, and the queerly gilded griffins and other fabulous animals who hold up waxen sticks over the fire-place tiles are own cousins to those who flourished when knighthood and architecture were in their flower. The Catholic church, as we all know, uses wax candles profusely in her decorations and ceremonies, and surely there is no more brilliant and impressive sight than a high altar and its twinkling
“Tapers burning fair.”
Candlemas, which falls on February 2d, is so named because the candles to be used during the ensuing year are blessed on that day, and its observance is of great antiquity. What connection, if any, all this has with the conventional woodchuck whose shadow or its absence gives the cue to six weeks of winter or the reverse is yet an open question.
Our Puritan grandpapas had little else to light their New England homes than candles, and so we occasionally hear an aged Yankee discourse of early candle-lighting as an authoritative and stated period. He lived in the days when children were sent to bed as soon as it was dark under the table. Those little people addressed their parents as “sir” and “ma’am,” and even treated them with great courtesy and respect. A dose of “early going to bed” might serve to inoculate Young America with similar ideas. It would be well enough to try the experiment.
Candles remind us of extinguishers, and extinguishers remind us of Charity Pecksniff, whose adoring lover, meaning to-kiss her hand in the entry as she passed by with her bed-room candle, made a mistake and kissed the snuffers instead.
The wife of one Governor of Michigan being about to have the honor of entertaining Mr. Emerson, had the gas fixtures removed pro tem. and candles substituted. So much for being a philosopher—or the wife of a maker of “ May Flower ” fine-cut.
Gas is thought decidedly vulgar in England and upon the continent of Europe, being used chiefly by business firms and people devoid of “ culchaw.” You look incredulous at that word, but there is “culchaw,” a little, a very little, where even the tippest top of Bunker Hill monument cannot be seen. The painting of candles really meant to burn is condemned by the Bric-a-brackers, it being contrary to the great and prevailing principle of truth which must to-day pervade all of the really artistic.
The writer saw once in the banqueting hall of an educational institution not two hundred or more than two miles away, a most vivid illustration of the beauty and softness of the light from numberless wax candles. Hundreds of these shed their gentle radiance over the scene, and gave that sesthetic accompaniment which always glorifies the practical in life.
Finally, dames and diamonds look best by candle-light.
Of all the bonny flowers that come and go And breathe a benediction while they stay, The ones that lighten most my weight of woe, And make me see the blessings on my way Are pansies with their purple cheeks afire, Are pansies bathed in eastern dyes of Tyre, Are pansies that with blooming never tire, The April darlings of a cloudy day.	"
Malcolm Duncan.
Matrimonial Prospects.
It would be better if parents gave more thought to the matrimonial prospects of their children. Unhappy marriages are the commonest things that help to make the world miserable; and these are in a great part due to the carelessness of parents, and to our chaotic social system. No attempt is made to keep young men from frequenting the society of young women of an opposite belief; and when an acquaintanceship ripens into marriage, our Catholic parents demand of Heaven why they are so afflicted. When young people are in that state of sentimental feeling that culminates in marriage, it is rather late to urge religious scruples. He will promise anything rosecolored, and religion, if it casts a shade on the hopes of the youthful pair, is likely to be disregarded. Surely parents ought to know that to their sons and daughters the, state of marriage is almost inevitable. Every mother expects her son to have the measels, but few mothers seem to regard the marriage of their sons as a certain thing. When it does come, it throws them into a state of consternation ; for, as a rule, sons always marry the wrong person, in the eyes of their mothers. To encourage a young man to mix in Protestant society, because it is “respectable,” is an ordinary course of conduct with so-called Catholic parents; but when the young man marries a Protestant and loses his Faith—ae most men who marry Protestant wives do—there is a howl of horror from those pious parents. The majority of modern parents learn nothing by experience. With that perfect carelessness which is a mixture of presumption and indolence, they put fire and tow together, and they are amazed at the result! The Irish and French systems of arranging marriages—systems in which the parents were not without influence—cannot be recommended in America without exciting much disapproval ; for public opinion is settled on the subject of “love”; but these systems, faulty, as they may be, never caused so much unhappiness as the carelessness of the parents of to-day in relation to the most important step in life.—McGee's Weekly.
. —The Pope has conferred the grand cross of the Order of Pius IX on Kheredine Pasha, Said Pasha, Caratheodory Pasha, and Osman Pasha, the four principal ministers of the Sublime Porte.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	685
Art, Music and Literature.
—The death is announced of Mgr. Duplessy, many years editor of the Berne Bibliographique. B. L P.
—The Seminary of St. Charles Borromeo, Pennsylvania, has a library of about 10,000 volumes, chiefly of a theological character.
—Phosphorescent paper, for writing or printing, which can be read in the dark, is the substance of a late European invention.
—A recent number of the Paris Figaro states that Mr. Edwin Booth, the tenor, was recently shot in Chicago, Wisconsin. A little mixed!
—Mlle. Aimee is educating, at a convent school in New York, the child of a member of her troupe who died at New Orleans.—Musical Becord.
—“ Roberts’ Rules of Order ” has attained a sale of 18,000 copies, and is becoming the standard manual for deliberative assemblies throughout the country.
—The Chinese Catholics have a college at Naples, the management of the ecclsiastical business being assigned to a congregation of Cardinals in Propaganda.
—The study of Irish is spreading in the old land. The First Irish Book sold 30,000 copies, the Second 12,000, and 4,000 copies of a map of Ireland in Irish have been published.
—In an obituary of Rev. Father O’Connell—Daniel O’Connell’s parish priest—it is stated that he was 102 years old when he died, and that he taught Bishop Moriarty his Latin primer.
—Schumann’s mass was sung at St. James’s Church on Sunday, June 29th, in celebration of the Feast of SS. Peter and Paul. This was its first rendering by any Catholic choir in Boston.
—Miss Ella McMahon, the translator from the French of “ Golden Sands,” “ Vacation Days,” and other interesting and valuable books, is the sister of Gen. Martin T. McMahon, of New York.
—The Cincinnati Telegraph is giving some papers a lively rub about the manner in which they praise each other. A little praise is necessary, and, when deserved, should be given.—Lake-Shore Visitor.
—A woven book has been manufactured at Lyons, the whole of the letter-press being executed in silken thread. Portraits, verses and brief addresses have often been reproduced by the loom, but an entire volume from the weaver’s hand is a novelty. '
—The Most Rev. Dr. Woodlock, Bishop of Ardagh, took farewell of the Catholic University on Tuesday, when the entire staff and students presented his Lordship with an affectionate valedictory address, and heard as affectionate a reply. There was much emotion, for cherished ties of years were being broken forever.
—The late Father Sibthorpe’s valuable collection of China has just been sold at Nottingham, and the proceeds are, according to his last will and testament, to be equally divided between the Earlswood Idiot Asylum and the St. Anne’s Bede House, an institution founded by the Father when he was still an Anglican clergyman.
—The students of the Catholic University College at Kensington are about to change their quarters. A house in Cromwell-road has been taken for the purpose of conducting their classes as before; and the house and grounds formerly occupied in Wright’s Lane, about half a mile distant from the new site, will be sold immediately.
—The Abbe Lalanne, who had devoted his long life to the education of youth, died lately at Besan^on in his 85th year. He formerly directed the College Stanislas in Paris, a branch of which famous establishment he afterwards founded at Cannes. He was a Knight of the Legion of Honor and an officer of the French Academy. B. I. P.
—Victor Hugo was talking about age, and confessed, in a oh arming humor that the most disagreeable advance to him was that from 39 to 40. “ O, that terrible 401 ” he said. “But,” remarked some one, “I should think it a great deal better to be 40 than 50.” “Not at all,” replied
Hugo; “40 years is the old age of youth, while 50 years is the youth of old age.”	-
—Pope Leo XIH is tall and spare, with a patrician air. He has a fine head, crowned with white hair, strongly-marked features, the aspect of an ascetic, with something marble-like in the general appearance of the figure. His face is lighted by a piercing look, and his smile is very winning. His voice is sonorous, not so mellow as Pope Pius’, but more powerful.
—The pretty little Church of the Holy Cross at Santa Cruz,;Cal., served by good Father Adam and his zealous assistant Rev. Father Hawe, has been presented by a worthy Catholic lady with a beautiful large crucifix carved in wood, which is described as a perfect gem of art The cross is twelve feet long, and the figure of our Lord six feet The crucifix was solemnly blessed by the Kt. Bishop Mora on the 25 of May. A mute but eloquent sermon is preached in the little church at Santa Cruz at all times now.
—The Rev. Father Girolamo Pio Saccheri, of the Order of Preachers, and Secretary of the Congregation of the Index, read one evening last month in the hall of the Arcadi a valuable and interesting paper on “ Catholic Civiliza. tion according to James Balmes and Cardinal Gioacchino Pecci, now Leo XIII.” The essay was listened to with great attention. It drew many interesting comparisons between the Spanish priest and the Italian Cardinal, and described the absurdities of the self-styled philosophical writers of anti-Christian and modern schools.
—The earliest newspaper in America was printed in Boston in 1690. It has generally been supposed that the News Letter, published at Boston in 1704, was the first paper printed in America, and certain popular reference books mention that journal as the earliest publication; but in the State Paper Office at London there is a copy of a folio newspaper sheet printed at Boston, and bearing the date of September 25,1690, “ to be issued monthly or oftener, and printed by R. Pierce for Benjamin Harris, at the London Coffee House, 1690.”—Printing Gazette.
—The Irish Language.—An odd addition to the new movement for the revival of the Celtic language comes from an Italian source. In the Ambrosian Library at Milan, and in the Library of St. Gall in Switzerland, there are Latin manuscripts with interlinear versions in the old Irish language, an edition of which, under the title of “ Old Irish Glosses,” by Professor Ascoli, has just been published. It is said that it presents the most ancient specimen of the spoken language of the Irish people, and that from it Zeuss, Stokes and others got the materials for their Celtic studies.
—The New York Sun of June 12 says: “At Harvard College, though good old Dr. Peabody lays down a sound morality and talks of practical religion, there is little real religious sentiment of any sort among the professors and students. And as to Yale College, what can be expected of it with Beecherism rampant at its head ? ” The newspapers of late have talked much of the slough of immorality into which the New England Puritans have fallen, the child murders, the crowded divorce courts, etc., but what can be expected from common people when those who should be educated gentlemen, and who should show examples of propriety, are educated in institutions such as the Sun declares Harvard and Yale to be ?
—“When I wrote the College Irish Grammar I was under the impression, from all I had then heard and known, that the form of the letter called the ‘ Old Irish Character ’ belonged actually to the Irish race, as special to their written speech, just as the Greek letters are special to the language of the Hellenic race. More reading and greater experience proved beyond all doubt that the ‘Old Irish Character,’ as such, was ‘old Roman,’ the parent of the Anglo-Saxon and the German, and like them borrowed from the Romans. The Irish and Latin manuscripts still extant point out this truth clearly. It is only fair to come to the conclusion that as the ‘Old Irish Character’ is really ‘Roman’ also, therefore we, to be up to the age, ought, like men of sense, to adopt that letter which is the best, the most pleasing to the eye, the readiest in writing, and that which from practice is to our own hand ready and easy.”—Father Glick Bourke.
—On the last day of May, the celebrated painter Johann von Schrandolph died at Munich of chest disease, to the
686
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
great loss of Christian art. He was born, in 1808, and was at first brought up to the trade of a joiner, but having learned by himself the elements of drawing and painting, he was admitted in 1825 to the Art Academy at Munich, where he worked under and with Schlothauer, Cornelius, and Hess. He was associated with Hess in the fresco paintings of the Church of All Saints and at the Benedictine Basilica, and he prepared the cartoons for the colored glass windows in the Church of the Auxdium Christian-orum. Then he went to Italy. During the years from 1841 to 1853 he was engaged upon a commission from King Louis, the adorning of the Cathedral of Speier with frescoes; subsequently he painted our Lord’s Ascension for the new pinacotheca, as well as the Nativity for the Maximilianeum. He was not many days ailing, and was fortified by the Sacraments of the Church. K. I. P.
—The praise which Mr. Froude gave the works of Bret Harte a short time ago at a London dinner led the Literary World, of Boston, to underrate Mr. Harte, remarking that he htad written very little that was a credit to American literature except the “Heathen Chinee.” From this, the Traveler, also of Boston, sharply dissents, and makes frank admission of a state of affairs in Boston which the outer world did not think was quite so bad: “ It is Mr. Harte’s temporary misfortune that he does not belong to the mutual admiration literary ring, which has its headquarters in this city, and has for long been engaged with more or less success in foisting a lot of very second-rate writers, whose talents principally consist in a faculty of imitation and the observation of certain conventional rules, upon the public as the representative literary men of America. Mr. Harte has more pathos, humor and originality than all the ‘society’ novelists, mechanical poets and dilettante critics whom the World and those of its kidney delight to honor, combined.”
—Of Joseph Jefferson’s first appearance on the stage when fourteen years old, Mr. L. C. Davis gives in Lippincott a touching description. The young actor’s widowed mother had for weeks trained him in the music, words and business of his part. They were very poor, and both hoped intensely that the debut would be successful. The night came, and young Jefferson took his place upon the stage more dead than alive with fright. He became conscious that his mother was watching’ him, and though half blinded with fear, he saw her hands tremble up to her mouth, saw the tears filling her eyes, and saw her trying to smile encouragment through them; yet after the first line or two he broke down utterly, and amid a storm of hisses he tottered off at the wing to which his mother was clinging for support, so great was her distress. He flung himself into her arms, crying out through his sobs and hers that he had failed—that he never should succeed. The lovely lady and loving mother died, not, indeed, before her son had gained a good position upon the stage, but before he had reached the success that would have made her so proud and happy.
—Rev. Hugh P. Gallagher, pastor of St. Joseph’s Church San Francisco, Cal., has donated the munificent sum of $60,000 to the Grammar Schools of the parish of which he is the founder. On Monday evening, June 16th, Rev. Father Gallagher made the formal donation, in St. Joseph’s Hall, in the presence of a large concourse of people. On the platform were the Most Rev. Archbishop Alemany, O. P.; Very Rev. John Prendergast, V. G.; and other members of the Rev. Clergy. After some preliminary business had been gone through with, Father Hugh Gallagher presented the deed of gift to His Grace the Most Rev. Archbishop Alemany, and the Secretary, Mr. Walsh, was called upon to read the same. According to its terms it conveys an undivided part of the Rancho de San Pablo, containing 17,938 acres, to three trustees, to be by them held for the benefit of the schools attached to St Joseph’s parish, provided that whatever remains after the sale of same over the sum of $60,000 shall revert to the donor. The trustees are to be appointed and vacancies filled by Father Gallagher during his life, after which, in case of death or vacancy, the remaining trustees are empowered to appoint, always provided they obtain the advice of the Archbishop and his successors. His Grace then stepped forward, holding the deed in his hand, and expatiated upon the generous Christian act of Father Gallagher in so liberally endowing the
schools of the parish. Some persons, said he, are commended for their generosity in establishing libraries, in giving fountains and statues, in erecting observatories, where astronomers can gaze upon the heavens and watch the course of the stars. But here is a man who gives the means to learn those truths of Faith—the knowledge of Him who created the heavens and the stars, by means of which the little children of the parish will learn how to obtain that kingdom which God has promised to those who serve Him.
—The Catholic University of Ireland has been in operation for twenty-five years. It was founded by Pius IX, to meet an admitted want in Irish university education, owing to the disappointment at the scheme of the Queen’s Colleges, opened in 1849. No less than £250,000 has been voluntarily contributed to its support. The Catholic Bishops are its legal owners. The decrees of the National Synod of Maynooth, approved by the Pope, require every Bishop in Ireland to contribute, by parochial subscriptions, to its endownment. . It has had a large and admittedly able pro-fessorite. The Catholic Church has favored, in an especial manner, the institution. Its first Chancellor, the late Archbishop Cullen, was raised to the dignity of a Cardinal. Dr. Newman, its first rector, has just been elevated to similar rank. Its first vice rector, Dr. Leahy, was promoted to the exalted rank of Archbishop of Cashel, while Drs. Flannery, Quinn (2) and Moran, who held office in the University, were made Bishops. The elevation of Dr. Woodlock, the late rector to the See of Ardagh, is only a further identification and approval of the Catholic Church with that institution and the determination to sustain it under all circumstances. Just at this moment, when the claims of Catholics for university equality are in the forefront of Parliamentary agitation, the function of yesterday is of special significance. The persistency of Catholics in pressing those claims wrecked one of the most powerful ministries of modern times—that of Mr. Gladstone. No statesman can ignore the proceedings of yesterday as a pledge of Catholic determination to achieve the full measure of Catholic claims. Dr. Woodlock states explicitly in his answer to the address of the professors and staffi that Leo XHI assured him that the signal honor conferred on him in his consecration as Bishop of Ardagh by his own hands, on Whit-Sunday, was a designed mark of respect, in the first instance, to the Irish Episcopate, clergy and people; and, in the next, a pledge of his affection for and interest in the Catholic University.
Scientific Notes.
li ----	7
—Discovery of Rare Coins.—A few days ago some j builders were employed in repairing the floor of the can-tini or cellars in the Casali Palace in via della Stelletta. One of them, when turning up the earth, observed a piece of metal which he took for an old button and threw away.1 When a second and third piece was found he began to suspect that they might be money, and sent to the super-	f
intendent to examine them. The supposed buttons were then found to be golden zecchini, and directions were	•
at once given to send for a cart which had just left the	|
premises laden with excavated earth. On sifting this clay	fl
about 146 gold coins were discovered, many of them of large	4
size and of rare coinage. Mgr. Casale del Drago, to whom, as proprietor, this treasure-trove belongs, will doubtless take care that the coins shall be preserved and placed in some collection, where numismatists may consult them.
—A remarkable discovery has lately been made near Triers, Germany, consisting of about 800 or 900 round pieces of burnt clay, one inch and a quarter in diameter and as thick as.a half-dollar piece. In all appearance these forms belonged to a counterfeit mint carried on on a large scale. One side of each of these forms bore the print of the front	’•
view of an ancient "Roman coin, and the other side the	i
reverse of another piece. The forms dated from the time of the Roman Emperors of the 3rd and 4th centuries.	i
When used it is probable that about 30 or 40 of these	I ■
forms were arranged in a roll and tightened together, leav-ing a little hole between two corresponding forms. A	;
spout of burnt clay, with holes corresponding exactly with	*
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
687
the casting holes in the roll, was then fastened over it, to receive the liquid metal, thus filling in one cast all the intervals between the spring of forms. Only the little forms of both ends of the row had been left flat at the outside, the inside showing the impression of a mint form.
—A. vast enterprise has just been accomplished in Italy by Prince Torlonia, who from 1854 to 1876 was engaged, at his own expense, in drying up Lake Pucino. This prodigious work, which Pliny, Tacitus, and Suetonius say had been attempted by the Roman emperors, had also been taken in hand by the late King of Naples, but neither the ancient emperors nor the Bourbon king could boast of any degree of success. Prince Torlonia has now gained 14,175 hecatres (about 36,000 acres) of excellent soil for the sum of about §10,000,000, and has raised at the front of the basin, where all the water of the drainage is collocated, a magnificent statue of the Blessed Virgin about twenty feet high. The pedestal bears the following inscription: “Under the protection of Mary, conceived without sin, Alexander Torlonia, enterprising and wealthy, began in 1854 a work that the Roman emperors vainly tried to accomplish, and brought it to a successful close in 1876.” It was not till the present year, however, that the lake became completely dry.
—State Surveyor Gardner declares that most of the cities and towns in central New York are from one to two miles out of place on the maps, while the topographical features are equally misrepresented. “Few people realize,” he says, “that the central part of our State represented on their maps as level regions, are mountains rising to such heights above the surrounding country that the eye can sweep at a glance 5,000 square miles of land and lakes, touching here and there blue horizons over 60 miles away.” • Writing of the official survey in which he has been for years employed, he says: “ Ideas of the aspects of the State derived from maps have, in my own case, proved to be so false and vague, that I find in this survey the attractive novelty of exploring an unknown region. Colorado was not a greater surprise to me than has been the structure of my native State. In the study of the origin of some of its most remarkable features lie untrodden tracks of knowledge which are yet to awaken great interest. The configuration of a part of central New York is as unique and as unknown to science as that of any part of the Rocky Mountains.”—N. Y. Sun.	•
—Within the present generation, and mainly during the present decade, nearly all the great geographical problems left us by our adventurous ancestors have been solved; all the great lines of exploration have been taken up and worked out with a success that leaves to the future only the details to fill in. The Northwest Passage was completed more than a quarter of a century ago; the Australian interior has been crossed and recrossed within the past few years; several bright lines now break up the once mysterious darkness of the “Dark Continent”; the sources of the Nile have been traced, and the ;course of the Congo all but laid down; the Russians have filled up many important ’blanks in Central Asia; there is now no mystery to speak of for geographers on the North American Continent, and none of any magnitude on the South; even the great outlines of the ocean-bed have been chartered, and now at last, after a struggle begun more than 300 years since, the Northeast Passage has been made with an ease that makes one wonder why it was not done long ago. A matter-of-fact Swedish professor has shown that with a suitable ship at the proper season this long-sought-for passage to “Far Cathay ” is a question of only a few weeks. Oi Arctic feats there now remains only the “dash at the Pole,” and that the North Pole will be reached sooner or later there can be no doubt.—London Times.
—There was an interesting discussion on the subject of “ Spontaneous Combustion ” at a recent meeting of the French Academic des Sciences. M. Cosson described an accident which had occurred in his laboratory a few days before. While the narrator was working in the laboratory, a portion of the boarding of the floor spontaneously took fire. The boards were in the vicinity of an air-hole, fed with warm air from a stove four metres away on the floor below. A similiar accident took place two years ago, and, in consequence, M. Cosson had the boards adjoining the air-hole replaced by a slab of marble. The board which now ignited adjoined the
marble. The heat to which the boards were subjected was, however, very moderate, being only that of warm air of 25 deg. C. Nevertheless, M. Cosson said the wood had undoubtedly been slowly carbonized. Being thus rendered extremely porous, a rapid absorption of the oxygen of the atmosphere had resulted, and sufficient caloric was thereupon produced to originate combustion. The danger thus disclosed, said M. Cosson, is one to which the attention of builders ought to be directed. In the instance in question, M. Cosson was able to extinguish the fire with a little water, as he was present and witnessed its beginning; but had it occurred at night or during his absence, it would undoubtedly have completed its work of destruction. M. Faye stated that at Passay, a few days before, a similar case of spontaneous fire, due to the action of the warmth from the air-hole of a stove upon the woodwork, had occurred at the house of one of his friends.
—“The subdivision of the light is perfect, but I am improving the lamp every day,” said Mr. Edison to a Sun reporter the other day. “The lamp experiments give me nearly seven gas jets per horse-power, and' there are indications that I can increase the number to ten. Just so long as we can see our way to getting more gaslight per horse-power, we shall give no exhibitions. The platinum burner is a settled thing. In all carbon lights not more than forty-four per cent, of the horse-power goes into the lamps. We get eighty-two per cent, in our lamps. I recognized the impatience of the public over the delay in bringing the light before them, but we must start with a perfect plan. It is a necessity. Suppose we erected our stations and lighted New York city, losing horsepower that might be saved by a perfect lamp or generator. In time the lamps and generators would have to be thrown out and new ones substituted. The company would lose millions of dollars. We are going to perfection even in the supply of metal for burners. I have been bothered to find a dynamometer for measuring the horse-power used to generate the electricity for the light. I made dozens of them before I got one that is absolutely perfect It measures within a thousandth of a horse-power what goes into a generator and what comes out of it. Such are some of our difficulties. We may be able to spread the whole thing before the public in three or four weeks, and the time may be much longer; but just so long as we can see a chance for improvement, we shall continue our experiments.” Mr. Edison says it has cost him about §13,000 to perfect his generator. He has spent about §8,000 in experiments on a lamp. It cost about §3,000 to discover a new method of insulating his wires. The meter experiments ate up fully §2,000, and the dynamometer §3,000 more. He estimates the total cost of his experiments thus far at §45,000.
—The Duke of Longueville’s reply, when it was observed to him that the gentlemen bordering on his estates were continually hunting upon them, and that he ought not to suffer it, is worthy of imitation—“I had much rather,” said the Duke, “ have friends than hares.”
—The sore distress of the Irish farmers goes to the heart of their faithful priests. The Irish clergy are untiring in their efforts to impress upon the landlords the necessity, of reducing their rents for the current year. Several deaneries have sent forth their appeals on behalf the distressed tenants. The priests of Cahirciveen, of Killaloe, and many other parts of Ireland, as well as many boards of guardians throughout the country, have published resolutions calling on the landowners to make such just and reasonable reductions in their rents as will enable the tenants to tide over the bad times produced by bad harvests, heavy taxation, and foreign competition. At the Dungarvan meeting forty priests were present, with Dr. Power, Bishop of Waterford and Lismore. They “ believe that a voluntary reduction of rents on the part of the landowners would be not only fair and right under existing circumstances, but would conduce greatly to the cementing of good will between two grand sections of the community, whose interests are intimately connected with the welfare of the nation at large.” This sentiment they begged leave to recommend to the consideration of the landlords. Alas, ’tis a stony-hearted tribunal they are pleading before I—Irish-American. _
688
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
i
Notre Dame, July 12, 18T9
Vacation.
It is far into the usual time of college vacation, although indeed all time since April 23 has been to us a season of vacation. We have already given our readers even more than the customary number of Scholastics for the current volume; the unusual condition of affairs at Notre Dame, and the interest which the public manifest in the building and opening of the new College, seeming to draw us on from week to week, until we have almost reached the middle of July. With the present number we give our friends as complete a view of affairs here as possible. The masons are hard at work on the last story of the building and the carpenters have the timbers ready for the roof. As soon as the roof is on, the largest force may be put to work in every story from basement to garret. The building, God willing, cannot fail to be ready for students even before it is needed. We therefore leave the workmen to carry out their work in peace. The most sublime period in the late war was the four weeks’ silence of Sherman’s March to the Sea. “Have no fear for me,” said the hero, as he entered on that unknown journey, dropping out of sight and out of hearing of his countrymen. But he rose into the sunlight out of this silence; and so will Notre Dame. After a month’s vacation, the Scholastic will go forth again as usual, and give to our readers the opening chapters of the new year’s history. The first number of the new volume will appear about the 23d of August, and will give an account of the condition of the buildings, the names of the officers of the University, and all other news of interest to our patrons. Let our friends use the vacation to good purpose and each one prepare to bring a new student with him for September. All things will be ready, and Notre Dame will enter on her new and more glorious career.
The Statue for the Dome of the College.
We have received a description of the proposed statue of our Lady which is to adorn the new University, and which the young lady graduates of St. Mary’s Academy generously proposed to themselves to contribute as their crowning gift to Notre Dame. The model of the statue is that adopted by our late Holy Father, Pope Pius TX, in 1854, on the occasion of the solemn proclamation of the dogma of the Immaculate Conception. The material will be of highly polished bronze, sixteen feet in height, the crescent with the serpent beneath, and a starry crown above. Nine of the stars will be seen over and on either side of the head. By day the statue itself and its circle of stars will glitter in the sunlight, an object of beauty for miles around; and by night the nine stars will be lit with the electric light, and thus be a beacon of beauty from a still further distance. As the head will be 186 feet above the earth, it is evident that the jets of light will be seen by night all over the neighboring city and for a great distance on the various railroads entering there.
The young ladies of St. Mary’s have therefore under
taken a beautiful task, a labor of love, in thus placing our Lady’s statue in mid-air, as Michael Angelo placed the faultless Grecian temple above St. Peter’s, a thing of beauty to rest and shine there a joy forever. May their labor of love be rewarded, here, with the success of the object which they have in view, and afterwards with the sweet memory of the noble deed which they have accomplished, and may our Blessed Lady look upon them with her brightest smiles when, as the shades of night come on, her beautiful statue lights up the landscape of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s!
A Walk Through the Building.
We took advantage of the hour’s nooning on Tuesday to pick our way through the new building. It takes an hour to do this now, if one wishes to see all that is of interest; but it would be hardly safe for an inexperienced “land lubber ” to take for this purpose a work hour,—three elevators taking up brick and mortar, and men running all over the loose boards overhead with the loaded wheel-barrows, are enough to make the timid explorer fearful of finding a brick in his hat at every step. In our noon hour we had only to look where we stepped and where we climbed. The rooms have already taken a rude outline, and one can form a good idea of how they will look when completed. The class-rooms look larger and more lightsome than the old ones; there are no posts in the way, and ventilators rise from the floor. As ten or twelve of these class-rooms are on the same floor as the study-halls, it does not seem that they could be improved. The first thing that attracts attention on entering the study-halls is their remarkable height— not only the height of the ceilings, but the height of the rooms themselves, the second story of the new building being almost as far above the ground as the third story of the old. This will set the study-halls well up in the fresh bright air, and give them a much more inviting character. The numerous ventilators will keep the air pure, without necessitating the raising of the windows in cold weather. The rooms will thus be warmer without any impure air. We noticed on this quiet walk what we had not learned before, that all the outer walls were furred for lathing. One of the defects of the old building was that the outside walls were not lathed, and of course the rooms were neither so dry nor so warm, in consequence, as they should be. The improved ventilation and the lathing of the outer walls will add both to the comfort and to the healthfulness of the new building. We had a feeling of satisfaction as we noticed that the prefect of the dormitory was not forgotten in the plans, the little rooms in the towers opening directly into the several dormitories, being just suited to the use of the prefects. We venture to say that these lofty, light, and airy dormitories, with their thorough system of ventilation, will be looked upon with approving eyes by the incoming student. When we came to the centre of the building and looked up and down that noble rotunda, an involuntary expression of pleasure and surprise escaped us: that lofty dome rising from the first floor and crowned by the statue of our Lady will be the pride of Notre Dame. Finally, as we descended and called to mind what we had seen, we were impressed with the exceeding convenience, healthfulness, beauty and strength of the building. It would seem that only an earthquake could shake those walls; and the thought came once again, Was it not indeed a blessing in disguise, that fearful fire ?—a
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	689
purgatory through which we were to reach a more glorious dwelling ?
College Associations in the large Cities.
For those who have spent their school days at the same literary institution, and who afterwards find themselves dwelling in the same city, it would seem to be the most natural thing in the world to unite in societies for purposes of social and intellectual enjoyment. The larger and older colleges have such societies in every large city. The old boys come together once a year, or oftener, and sit at table, tell stories of Alma Utater, sing songs of auld lang syne, make after-dinner speeches, and in various other things show how well they are pleased with one another’s company and how dear to them are the memories of their college days. These reunions are of advantage not only to the students themselves, but also to the institution which they honor; and most graduates take a pride in thus presenting themselves before the world as ready to do all in their power to advance the interests of their old college home.
We were therefore much pleased that the students of Notre Dame now in Chicago should have met a week or two ago and organized an amateur musical entertainment for Notre Dame. We know not what the proceeds were, but we do know what the spirit was that prompted the entertainment. Notre Dame is but a young institution, and it is only reasonable that the first city association of her old students should be formed in Chicago, where she is best known and where her graduates are most numerous. We understand that those who took part in the recent concert are so satisfied with the beginning which they have made that they propose to form a permanent organization, and that they will meet for that purpose a week from this evening. The Scholastic wishes to send greeting and God-speed to the enterprise, and congratulations to those who are engaged in it. “ Be not weary in well doing.”
Description of the New Notre Dame.
The description of the new College building as given in No. 37 of the Scholastic was sketched in haste, and it has beenjthought well in sending out the engraving to give another description somewhat in detail, as it will appear in the Catalogue. Two engravings appear in the Catalogue, one showing the old College and the grounds as they appeared before the fire, and the other showing the edifice now ready for the roof. The latter we give to our readers this week. Another engraving will be prepared soon, showing the College in the centre, the church on one side and the Music Hall on the other, with surrounding buildings and scenery in the back ground.
THE NEW NOTRE DAME.
On the 23d of April of the present year the University of Notre Dame was destroyed by fire. The main College building, the Infirmary, the Music Hall, St. Francis’ Home, and the Minims’ Play Hall were burned to the ground. The insurance was §45,000, about one-fourth the original cost of the buildings destroyed. With this money, and with the aid of the friends of Notre Dame throughout the country, the community went to work to clear away the rubbish and to lay the foundations of new buildings.
The Infirmary was first restored, remodelled, and cov
ered with a roof of slate and tin. Hereafter there will be no private rooms in this building for permanent residence by inmates of Notre Dame; the University offices also will be transferred to the main college building, for the greater accommodation of students and the public. '
THE MAIN COLLEGE BUILDING.
The style of architecture adopted for this edifice is modern Gothic. It presents a frontage of 224 feet, by 155 in depth, somewhat cruciform in shape, or like the letter E with an extended centre. A projection or wing on each side, directly connected with the main building, will make the total frontage 320 feet. The height of the main building is four stories with basement, the height of the east and west wings each three stories with basement. From the ground to the pedestal of the statue above the dome is 170 feet. The dome is unusually lofty, extending 80 feet above the roof.
A rotunda, 30 feet in diameter at the base, passes from the foundations up through the building, supporting the dome, and giving light, air and ventilation to the whole building. This rotunda, surmounted as it is by the glorious dome and crowned by a statue over all, is entirely self-supporting, and constitutes perhaps the finest feature of its kind to be seen in any educational institution in this or any other country.
THE STUDY HALLS.
These are located, as in the old building, in the east and west sides on the principal floor. They are most spacious and beautiful rooms, 77 feet in length, 41 in width, and 15 feet clear in height, well lighted on three sides with large windows. The entrance to the study-halls is from the south, as before, and also from a corridor 16 feet in width extending from each study-hall to the rotunda in the centre.
THE CLASS-ROOMS.
In nothing perhaps will the superiority of the new building to the old be more manifest than in the class-rooms, both as to location and size. Twelve of them are situated on the same floor as the study-halls, thus ensuring convenience to students and professors, and doing away with much of the noise that attended the march of heavy classes up and down stairs. The average dimensions of-the classrooms are 26 feet in length, 16 in width, and 15 feet clear in height. The Commercial Class-room adjoins the Senior study-hall, on the south side of the building, and is 44 feet in length by 20 feet in width. All class-rooms are lighted by two large windows, four south windows lighting the fine Commercial Class-room. .
The floors above are divided in a similar manner to those below. The dormitories are directly over the study-rooms> are of the same lofty height, and are lighted in like manner with large and numerous windows.
VENTILATION.
Particular attention has been given to the subject of ventilation, flues for this purpose running through every story from basement to roof, with openings from study-halls, class-rooms, dormitories, etc., thus securing pure and healthgiving air in every room.
FIRE PROTECTION.
The destruction of the old College has drawn special attention to the protection of the new building from all possible danger from fire. The walls are of solid brick and stone; the trimming and ornamentation of the exterior are of fine cut stone and galvanized iron, and all the roofs and cornices are covered with slate. Then, in addition to the ordinary stairways, there are fire escapes on every floor, so
690
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
that should fire ever again occur, which may God forbid, there will be the most ample means of escape from every story and every room of the whole building. As a still further protection from fire, and also for convenience and beauty in lighting the building, instead of coal oil it has been determined to use gas hereafter.
FRONT EXTENSION.
The principal entrance to the College is from the south, facing the main avenue, as in the old College, by a large and handsome porch approached by an extra large and inviting flight of steps. At the right of entrance are the President’s room and parlor and Vice-President’s room and parlor, two spare rooms for visitors, and one visitors’ waiting room. On the left of the entrance, looking out in front is the main parlor, 40 by 42 feet, with front and side bay windows, corresponding to bay windows in the visitors’ and President’s rooms on the opposite side of the - entrance. In the rear of the main parlor is a smaller parlor, with octagonal front, connecting parlor with toilet room.
STAIRWAYS.
Opposite the small parlor, on the right of the entrance hall, is the large main staircase, ascending in an octagonal niche, well lighted from windows in outside walls. In the hall on each side of the rotunda a large staircase for the accommodation of students extends from the basement to the third floor, is flanked with brick walls, and lighted directly from the outside. Thus there are three flights of spacious stairs extending from basement to upper story, all placed in the most convenient parts of the building, and where best protected from fire, having also an outlet on each floor. There are two closet-towers in the rear, about fifteen feet from the main building, with stairways, which are also intended as fire escapes. These towers are three stories above basement, and are well lighted and ventilated. From the dormitories, besides the exits by corridors and main stairways, there are also fire escapes into the wings on each side of the building. It will thus be seen that the means of ascending and descending through the building, and also of escaping from it in case of necessity, are all most ample.
The rotunda and dome are entirely self-suporting, so that if the rest of the buildings were removed they would stand undisturbed as a lofty tower, extending 170 feet from the ground and surmounted by a beautiful statue of Notre Dame.
THE PROJECTING WINGS.
These are themselves no insignificant buildings, being each 42 feet front and but one story lower than the main building. The west wing will be used exclusively as a Community House, for those members whose occupation •makes it necessary that their residence should be in the College. The east wing will be devoted to the Laboratory and to the sciences in general. The Scientific Class Rooms will be in this wing.
THE MUSIC HALL.
This is the name given to a large and most important building which will be immediately, erected on the east and front of the College building—matching the Church on the west front. The main College as a centre will thus be flanked on the right and left by the Church and the Music Hall, the three buildings matching most perfectly and forming one picture, the garden fronting the College and lying between the Church and the Music Hall. The total frontage of these three buildings will be some 500 feet.
The Music Hall will be 200 feet north and south, by 50 feet
east and west, and three stories in height. The first story will be divided into two play rooms, each 50 feet by 100. On the second floor will be new the Exhibition Hall, 150 feet long by 50 wide, and two stories in height. This will leave two music rooms, one on the second and one on the third floor, each 50 feet square. The play rooms, the Exhibition Hall and the Music Rooms will thus all be larger and more convenient than before. Washington Hall will be devoted to gymnasiums. An Observatory in the front of Music Hall will receive the fine telescope presented by the late Emperor of France.
SIZE OF THE NEW NOTRE DAME.
Those who have noticed the dimensions above given will see that the size of the new buildings and the consequent room are much greater than in the old. Counting square feet, it will be found that there are over 30,000 more feet of flooring in the new buildings than in the old. But another circumstance must be noted which practically adds much to this room, and that is the greater proportion of ground floor. It is well known that the old College was too high, the upper story being practically useless on account of the long line of stairway to be climbed before reaching it. In the new buildings then there is not only much more actual room, but that room is nearer the first floor, and hence much more usable. The new Notre Dame is therefore not only more beautiful and commodious, but also more roomy, and with its room more available than the old.
HEATING, LIGHTING, AND VENTILATION.
The apparatus for heating, lighting and ventilating the buildings are all of the most approved character, and embrace the latest improvements; and these, together with the corresponding sanitary appointments, have engaged the special attention of the architect. The walls are heavy, and thus make the building not only strong but also warm. The windows are large and numerous, and thus afford abundance of light, and also ventilation if needed. The building will be heated as before, by steam, thus ensuring safety, freedom from dust, and uniform and sufficient heat. Coal oil, though never the source of any serious accident here, is nevertheless recognized as subject to danger, and will therefore be discarded in favor of gas, which is not only safer but also gives a much more brilliant and beautiful light. The large ventilating flues extending up through the walls and connecting with every room will keep the air always pure by drawing off a constant current from the floors upward and out through the roof.
In conclusion we need not say that every offbrt will be taken in furnishing the various rooms of the University to secure the comfort and health of the student. And we are led to say that it may be that the good Providence of God in taking from us our former building has but designed to give us one in its place which is in every way better adapted to the purposes of an educational institution such as is needed at the present time. Our loss,'we trust, will thus in the end prove a blessing.
THE SITE
x>f the College is one particularly adapted to the improvement of the students. It is secluded and healthy, and constant care is rendering a spot naturally beautiful still more attractive by art and good taste.
We state only the advantages of
HEALTH AND RETIREMENT
that are enjoyed by the inmates of the Institution; a description of all that pleases at Notre Dame would take us
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
691
beyond the limit of these pages. We prefer to give a hearty invitation to all our patrons, and to all who think of confiding their sons to our care, to come and see, and judge for themselves.
The advantages arising from the
RETIRED POSITION
of the College cannot fail to be appreciated by parents who have at heart the education of their children; and even the careless student, when once interested in his studies, soon finds out the benefits he can derive from an uninterrupted attention to class and study. Though secluded in a great measure from the busy world without, yet the number of students and the extensive College grounds give him a world of his own, in which, what with Class, Examination, Notes, Literary Societies, Religious Associations, Baseball Clubs, Boat Clubs, Dramatic, Musical, Literary, and Scientific Entertainments, he finds full enjoyment and amusement, and companions, ideas and sentiments that all concur to fix his mind on his studies and establish him in habits of piety, application and order, the influence of which will be felt during his entire life. He breathes for a few short years the atmosphere of order, of regularity in all that he does, of profound application to studies, broken only by healthy and regular recreation; and certainly in our times, when serions and solid studies are becoming so rare—when all kinds of inducements to waste and fritter away time are forced upon young students—when morals are so lightly watched over—the advantage of the retired location of Notre Dame cannot be too highly spoken of.
Providence has singularly blessed the Institution in regard to health; and those who have had their sons in the College can give their testimony that the regular course of life, added to -the salubrious climate and the fresh country air, has done much to improve the health of their children.
The disciplinary government is mild, yet sufficiently energetic to preserve order and regularity. The morals and general deportment of the pupils are assiduously watched over, and their comforts and personal habits receive the same attention as if they were in the bosom of their own families.
THE EDUCATION
given at Notre Dame is calculated to form both the heart and intellect of the students. Every attention is given to their moral and religious culture. Every day the students have an opportunity of attending classes where they may acquire a knowledge of Christian Doctrine. Twice a week, lectures and instructions on religious topics are delivered to all the students together. Finally, a regular course of Dogmatic Theology is established in the University for the benefit of the more advanced students, who may desire to enter the world having their minds stored not only with profane science but also with what is much more important—a thorough knowledge of their religion. The religious instruction is, of course, confined to Catholic students. The intellectual training is carried on with care and diligence by the officers and Professors of the University. The best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected; so that no pains are spared to secure the objects which the University has in view as an educational institution.
—What will our students say next September when they find marble basins, with hot and cold water, in the wash rooms? We understand that is what may be expected.
Special Studies, etc.
The student at Notre Dame possesses special facilities for pursuing a variety of studies and accomplishments to j which we here wish to draw our readers’ attention.
THE POST-GRADUATE COURSE.
The students in this course occupy themselves with Philosophy, History, and the Natural and Physical Sciences. Law, Medicine and Civil Engineering may be optional studies of the course.
THE LAW DEPARTJIENT.
We trust to see our Law Department better and better attended year after year. We have every reason to be proud of the young men who each year have sought the classic retirement of Notre Dame to pursue their Law Studies. We shall endeavor to make their sojourn among us an agreeable one, and give them every facility for study.
CIVIL ENGINEERING.
This important Course is now thoroughly established, and will afford our advanced students the opportunity of fitting themselves for the practice of the eminent profession whose name it bears.
LANGUAGES.
It is the desire of the authorities of the University of Notre Dame to promote the study of the foreign languages, the use of which is so frequent and necessary for business or scientific purposes.
The German Language—the classes of which are so numerously attended—has been taught by five Professors during the past scholastic year. The number of German students attending the University is becoming greater every year. The French Language—though more especially the language of the Collegiate Course—will be of great advantage to the Scientific students. Other languages—such as Italian and Spanish—may be taught when required.
PHONOGRAPHY AND TELEGRAPHY.
These two branches invite the special attention of the students of the Commercial Course. The Telegraph Department is fully organized, and is placed under the management of a skilful electrician. Notre Dame is now in direct communication with South Bend and the rest of the world by electric wires.
ANATOMY AND MATERIA MEDICA.
Young men desiring to study for the medical profession will find opportunities to do so at Notre Dame. The Course of Studies in this Department embraces Materia Medica, Anatomy and Surgery. As a Preparatory Course, that which is given here under L. Neyron, M. D., a graduate of the Ecole de Medicine, Lyons, leaves nothing to be desired.
DRAWING AND PAINTING.
The Drawing Classes each year show a large increase over the preceding iyears. The University enjoys means adequate to all demands in this branch. It possesses a large number of models in all sorts of drawing, a fine studio, and' vigilant and zealous teachers of the art. Painting promises, likewise, to be one of the popular branches of Art taught at Notre Dame.
MUSIC.
This Department is complete in all its appointments. It has five Professors, and is divided into classes on the regular Conservatory system. An Orchestra of fifteen pieces, with an excellent Quartette, and a Brass Band of twenty-five instruments, are some of the leading features of the Musical Department.
Vocal music will receive special care. We call the at<
692
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tention of our students and patrons to this favorite and useful branch of music, which is now so deservedly popular. At present it may be studied free of charge.
THE ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORY.
A temporary Astronomical Observatory has been erected, in which the fine instrument presented by the late Emperor Napoleon has been placed. The studies of the Class of Astronomy are now rendered practically interesting.
LIBRARIES.
The College Library before the fire contained some thirteen thousand volumes, very carefully arranged by the Librarian. Donations of books, especially to the Law Library, will be thankfully received.
The Circulating Library was commenced three years ago with four hundred volumes. Previous to the fire which destroyed the old University buildings it numbered over three thousand. All the Libraries which formerly belonged to the Literary and Religious Societies were merged into it, and instead of the dozen or more book-cases which often hid away instructive books, a collection of Literary, Religious, Historical and Scientific works was open to the students, in an apartment fitted up as a reading-room. Active efforts are now making to reopen this library at the beginning of the new year.
THE LECTURE COURSE.
There are a great many students who, owing to different causes, progress but slowly in the acquisition of knowledge in the class-room, but who in the lecture-hall advance most rapidly, whilst all gain a more comprehensive and practical perception of the various branches of Science when clearly and concisely elucidated by the discourse of an expert The importance of Lectures has, therefore, never been overlooked at Notre Dame, but of late the authorities of the University have been led to devote particular attention to the organizing and developing of Lecture Courses on all the more important studies of the Institution. Henceforth, therefore, students may expect to have every facility, without any interruption of classes, to assist at regular Lectures on Philosophical, Historical, Literary and Scientific subjects. In this respect, the success reached during the past few years forms an epoch in pur educational training, and there is every reason for believing that the future will witness still greater triumphs.
The Commercial Department at Notre Dame.
z The course of studies in this Department requires two years for graduation; it includes arithmetic, grammar and letter-writing, geography, United States history, reading, spelling, penmanship, book-keeping, and Commercial Law, —that is, a complete business education.
Considering the character and needs of the country, • especially the great West in which we live, this Course is the most practical and one of the most important that an educational institution can afford.
Those therefore who have not the time or the means to take a complete college course, in the classics and the sciences, would do well to enroll themselves in the Commercial Course. No plan of study is more injudicious than a hap-hazard selection of such studies as an inexperienced student may fancy. The consistent training resulting from a fixed course of studies is of the utmost benefit to the student.
The Commercial Course at Notre Dame has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the University. Notre Dame
proposes to give the graduates of this course a more complete business training than can be obtained in any commercial college. Believing that a business education includes something more than a mere knowledge of bookkeeping, and that a good education cannot be had in a few weeks, this course has been extended over two years, the shortest time in which the studies necessarily used in business life can be mastered. Should a student desire during this period to take up any other studies in which he may be interested, and for which he has time, he will have liberty to do so. General history and linear drawing are especially recommended to the students of this course. Many commercial students find it also to their advantage to take up the study of German or French, for which there are the amplest facilities. A talented and studious young man may thus in the course of two years find himself in possession of a most valuable practical education, which will fit him to take his place in the front rank of educated business men.
The routine of study in the Course of Book-keeping embraces the following:—Preparatory Instructions and Definitions ; Initiatory Sets by Double Entry; 1st Series, embracing the Buying and Selling of Merchandise on Private Account; 2d Series, On account of others; 3d Series, Buying and Selling the same on Joint Account; 4th Series, Importing and Exporting on private account, on account of others, and account of ourselves and others in company; 5th Series, Receiving and-Forwarding Merchandise, the Management and Settlement of Executors’ Accounts, Buying and Selling, Remitting, Collecting, Discounting, Accepting and Paying Bills of Exchange, Banking—Private and Joint Stock—Steamboating, Railroading, Retailing by Double Entry, Farming, Mechanics’ Accounts. The whole Course illustrating the opening, conducting and closing of stock and partnership books—gaining and losing business, etc., etc. Saturdays are devoted to Commercial Law. Particular attention is paid to the explanation of the Law of Negotiable Paper.
Local Items.
—The Fourth of July was celebrated by the Fourth Ward in South Bend—namesakes.
—At the annual distribution of premiums and honors at the Manual Labor School, Masters J. Fenton, D. Clune, C. Pawlick and L. Baroux, received rewards for good conduct, and Mr. H. Deehan for application in catechism-class.
—The corridors on the main floor are to be covered with tiling, or rather with marble squares. This will not only be more beautiful but more cleanly than the boards and matting of the old College. It will in the end be also more economical.
—We have learned that J. B. McGrath, of New York city, one of our best students this year, is getting up a / public entertainment for the benefit of his Alma, Mater. Itz is what we might expect from J. B.’s love of Notre Dame and his enthusiasm as a student.
—It is whispered that the “ authorities ” in the city are considering the feasibility of extending the water-mains i/ to the University—may wisdom and money and all other v things necessary to give vigor to their counsels be present to aid in the carrying out of their good intentions!
— A large party of tramps were encamped to-day in the hollow to the left of the drive leading up to St. Mary’s. Indiana ought to have a tramp law making it a penal offense for these lazy rascals to infest the country, when every one of them might be honestly employed in earning the living which he now begs or steals.—Evening Register.	/
—We believe that the basement under the front exten- / sion is to be used for a trunk room. That would be a most
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	693
convenient arrangement, as the student could pass immediately from wash-room to trunk room by opening a door. We are only beginning to find out how much economy of time and movement results from the large ground space of the new building.
. —We have seen a sample of the new single desk which is to be placed in the study halls. It is simple and convenient, and has a place for everything—the student will of course keep everything in its place. Each student will be ^lord of his own household when seated behind this desk, and will doubtless look upon it* as not the least good drawn from the evil of the fire.
—We are indebted to the politeness of Mr. Crockett, of the ■* South Bend Tribune Company, for a bottle of beautiful red /ink—a new kind, and of a superior quality—manufactured z specially by the Tribune Company. They have succeeded so well with the red we hope they will try their hands at making a good black ink that will drive out some of the villainous stuffs now in the market.
—The wide range of interest manifested in Notre Dame is worthy of .note. Letters of sympathy, and often contributions of substantial aid, come from almost every State in .- the Union, from all parts of Canada, from Great Britian and Ireland, and from France and Italy. It is almost de-• sirable to be severely afflicted in order to be consoled by such widespread and heartfelt kindliness.
—The closets in the rear of the College are to be utilized by making them the supports of water towers. Tanks of l water will rest upon these towers and reach as high as the College itself. The water will be pumped into these tanks /by the pumps in the steam-house, and the water will be \Z drawn off by pipes for use in the garden, for fountains, and also, if there should ever be need, for fire protection.
—The Chicago Tribune has sent a venturesome correspondent to interview Sitting Bull. His experience is most graphically narrated and reads like a genuine romance. The h moral of his story is the old, old truth.—A just judge will some day try this question between the white man and and the red man, and we shall know who acted the better part, the simple wronged savage or the unscrupulous, oath-breaking “ pioneer of civilization.”
—We understand that the system of steam heating is to be changed from “high pressure” to “low pressure.” The design of this change is to save heat by returning the ^/jhot water from the condensed steam immediately into ' the boiler, and thus also stop the “snapping" caused by the steam driving the water before it. It is thought that equal and more uniform heat may be obtained in this way, with the use of one-fourth less steam.
—The concert in Chicago, under the superintendency of [	Prof. Corby, aided by the students of Notre Dame in Chi-
J cago, and even more by the fair pupils of St. Mary’s Acad-
। ’	emy, has brought in about five hundred dollars. This tells
I	well for the management of those who had charge of the
I	concert, as well as for the musical reputation of those who
took part in it. The musical proficiency of the young ladies of St. Mary’s has elicited the highest praise.
’	—Edwin Washington Wile, of '72, has for some time
x held the responsible position of book-keeper at the Peru Flax & Bagging Mills, at Peru, Indiana. E. W. is the I second of two sons of Mr. Jacob Wile, the well-known J banker and passenger agent at Laporte, who were educated at Notre Dame. David J., the eldest, is engaged in the practice of law, at Laporte, being in partnership with Congressman Calkins. He is at present City Attorney of Laporte.
—From Le Moniteur Acadien we learn that the closing exercises of St. Joseph’s College at Memramcook, N. B., took place on the 24th and 25:h of last month. The exercises on the last day were exclusively musical and oratorical, and the Acadien assures us that some of the discourses by the students would not discredit public orators. Amongst the young men particularly distinguished was
|	our contributor, E. J. McPhelim. His subject was “The
Ideal Education.”
—St. Mary’s Academy is well supplied with fire-plugs, ,	/-1 having them on every story, so that in case of fire a good
supply of water can be had there in a way somewhat similar to the Holly system. We understand that owing to
the scare given by the fire at Notre Dame they intend this vacation to increase the water facilities and fire escapes at the Academy. With the machinery already in, they could in case of necessity drive water much higher than the Academy building.
—In each of the four supporting columns of the rotunda is a large open space which seems just suited for vaults to istore valuables. It would seem that the offices of the University should be immediately connected with these, for the greater security of papers, documents, and articles of rare value, and we believe such an arrangement is under consideration. The President of the Thespians will undoubtedly secure one of these strong rooms for the storage of his armor, costumes, flags, etc.
—The people of Niles are rejoicing over the final completion of their water-works. The water is brought into the city several miles by pipes from Barron Lake. The power was sufficient to throw a stream from the hose over the highest buildings on Main Street: so says the Democrat. We are pleased with this news. We always did like Niles, and are glad the beautiful little city will be made still » more delightful with cool fountains, green lawns, and luxuriant foliage—saying nothing of safety from fire.
—According to a communication made by the Hon. John Brownfield to the South, Bend Herald of July the 2d, it appears that no contribution was ever made by the State in aid of the Asbnry University at Greencastle. It would seem, however, that the Presbyterian College at Crawfordsville did receive “ a timely and liberal donation” from the State. As the present Constitution of Indiana provides that “No money shall be drawn from the treasury for the benefit of any religious or theological institution,” we may conclude that the Presbyterian College is the only religious institution that ever has received, or that ever can receive aid from the State treasury. From this point of view the Presbyterian Church holds a unique place amongst the religious bodies of Indiana. It comes nearest of them all to being a State Church.
—We have received the Salt Lake Daily Tribune of June the 29th containing an account of the Fourth Annual Commencement exercises of St. Mary’s Academy, in Salt Lake City. The institution is in charge of Mother Charles, so well known in connection with our own St. Mary’s; while she is assisted by most competent religious, trained in the art of teaching by those who have made St. Mary’s one of the leading educational institutions of this country. We need not therefore be surprised to learn, as we do from the full and entertainng account of the exhibition in the Salt Lake Daily, that the exercises were most creditable to the institution, being such indeed as would honor a much older academy. The standing of St. Mary’s of Salt Lake City may be inferred from the number of medals and crosses donated by citizens of the city and adjacent parts of the territory. The Academy was still fttr-ther honored by the presence of Judge Dunne, who made the closing remarks on the occasion. We are exceedingly gratified at the success that has attended the establishment of this institution by the Sisters of the Holy Cross in the Far West.
Letters, etc.
Bev. Dear Sirs :—We send you this mite by way of a little donation. Hope it may not be unacceptable.
St. Benedict’s Academy, July 3,1879.
Cincinnati, Ohio, June 23,1879.
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Ind.:
Reverend Father:—Permit me, even at this late date, to express my sincere sympathy at the loss of that magnificent structure—the University. From my few but very pleasant visits to Notre Dame, I have become much attached to it, and it will hardly be necessary for me to say that I deply regretted to hear of the destruction of so grand a building. Please to accept my best wishes, and believe me
Yours very truly,	Adam Schmitt.
(With Van Antwerp, Bragg & Co.)
Fort Wayne, July 8,1879. j Very Dear Father General:—In this letter, I shall I employ my native language, for more than one reason.
694
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
In the first place, it is a more docile servant—one that serves me better than all the Johns, past, present or future. Secondly, you cannot give to the press what is in no way prepared or intended for the public. Then again, Frenchman fas I am, why should I reject my own child and attach myself to one adopted, no matter what the qualities of the latter.
Please accept my thanks for the plan of the new Notre Dame. It is much more grand and imposing than its predecessor. All that I can wish you is that Providence may open for you the treasures of Heaven and never cease bestowing them until all expenses are paid, even to the last penny.
I intend sending you $200—which, however, I cannot do before January next.
Perform wonders, dear Father—whilst your old friend rests upon his flattering laurels.
Wholly and heartily yours, J. Benoit, V. G.
L S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Snnday, Nov. 10,1878, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST.
3 25 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 30 p. m; Buffalo 8 05 p. m.
11 05 a.m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 p.m; Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
12 16 p.m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives st Toledo 5 40 p.m, Cleveland 1010 p.m; Buffalo 4 a.m.
9 12 p.m, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arives at Toledo 240 a.m: Cleveland, 7 05 a.m; Buffalo, 110 p.m.
4, 50 and 4= p.m, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 4=3 a.m, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a.m, Chicago
6 a.m.	’
5 05 a.m, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 a.m, Chicago 820 a.m.
4= 50 p.m, Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 540, Chicago. 8 p.m.
8 03 a m. Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 a.m; Chicago, 1130 a.m.
7 30 and 8 03 a.m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, GenT Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Division., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Supt.
GREAT SOUTHERN RAILWAY LINE
C. ATMORE, General Passenger aud Ticket Agent.
Weekly Newspapers.
rpmu CATHOEIC COLUMBIAN, published X weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, $2 per annum.
D. A. Clarke, of 70.
mHE AVE MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the X Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, $2.50.
Civil Engineers &> Surveyors.
CM?. PROCTOR Tof ’75], Civ’l ingineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main Street, Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARl’H U R J. ST A.CE [of ’64], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Hotels.
THE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Mich igan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House
THE MATTERSON TTOTJSE, Corner of Was bash Ave. and Jackson Street, Chicago, Ill. All Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matterson.
Book Binders.
EDWARD I?. FLYNN, Plain and Fancy Book-bind er, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Visiting Cards.
CALLING CA.TVDS—no two alike, with £1O neatly printed, for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
’	Mishawaka, Ind.
CENTS will obtain yon a Copy of The Scholastic £1O Almanac for 1879. Address
J. A. Lyons, .Notre Dame, Ind.
Attorneys at Law.
BROWN	HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), At-
torneys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER «& MITCHELL (N. S. Mitchell, of ’72) Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
rpiIOMAS n- CLIFFORD fof ’62). Attorney a
X Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 20 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.
FA.IN’WnPi'G- «fc HOGAN CD. J. Hogan, of ’74), Attorneys at Law, Room 26, Ash’and Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph stB, Chicago, Ill.
JOTIIN F. Nloli CT GH [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE	DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and
Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
OliVIETuE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61), Attorney at Law, No'ary Public and Commissioner of Deeds.
Office, 93 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McTSTtIDlS & NITTJ\A RD (Jas. E. McBride, of ’63), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty. Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St.. Grand Rapids, Mich.
WILE, TA. Nt J. CL A.KK.E (of ’74), Attorney at Law.
Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S High St, Columbus, O.
JAJMCES A.. O’REILLY-of ’69—Attorney at Law, 627 Court St., Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JOJtuV I>. McCORMACK-of ’73—Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio.
DAN IEU B. HIBBARD, Jr., (of ’70), Attorney at Law. Speeiil attention given to Collections. 98 Griswold Street, Detroit, Mich.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	695
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABLE.
NOV. 10,1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, f	Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side.)
On arrival of trains from North, and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No.l Fast Ex.	No. 7 Pac Ex.	No. 3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburg,	Leave	11.45 p.m.	9.00 a.m.	1.50 p.m.	6.00 A.M.
Rochester,				12.53 a.m	1012 “	2 55 “	7 45 “
Alliance,..		3.10 “		531 “	11 00 “
Orrville,		4.50 “	226 “	7.11 “	1255 p.m.
Mansfield,		7.00 “	4.40 “	9.2C “	3.11 “
Crestline,^	Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Cresflin	Leave	7.50 ajj.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
Forest		9.25 “	7.35 “	11.25	
Lima,				10.40 “	9.00 “	12.25 a.m.	
Ft. Wayne,		1.20 pat.	11.55 “	2.40 ‘	
Plymouth,		3.50 “	246 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,...... Arrive	7.00 “	6.00 “	7.58 “	
GOING EAST.
	No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Atlan-Ex.	No. 8, Mail.
Chicago	Leave Plymouth	 Ft. Wayne,	 Tnma,		9.10 P.M. 2.46 a.m. 655 “ 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 11.45 “	8.30 a.m. 11,48. " 2.25 p.m. 4.20 “ 5.27 “ 6.55 “	5.15 p.m. 8.55 11.30 “ 1.30 A M 2.33 “ 4.05 “		
Forest,					
Crestline,	.Arrive					
Crestline,	Leave Mansfield,	 Orrville,	 Alliance,	 Rochester,	 Pittsburgh,.... Arrive	12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.26 “ 4.00 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.45 “ 9.38 “ 11.15 “ 1.20 A.M. 2.30 “	4.15 A.M. 4.55 “ 7.00 “ 9.00 “ 11.06 “ 12.15 p.m.	6.05 a.m. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 p.m. 3.30 “
Trarns Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
C. & N.-W. LINES.
The Chicago & North-Western Railway, embracing under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minnesota, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona, Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE .
is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE . is the old Lake-Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan; Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee. PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS are run on all through trains of this road.
New York office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street: Omaha Office, 245 Farnham street; San Francisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner of W. Kinzie and Canal Street; Wells Street Depot, comer Wells and Kinzie Streets.	.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. STENNETT, MARVIN HUGHITT, Gen. Pass. Ag’t., Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Michigan Central Railway
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cars from Chicago to Baltimore. Washington City, Philadelphia and New York without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. R. MYERS, G. F. & T. A.
INMAN LINE.
ROYAL MAIL STEAMERS. NEW YORK to QUEENSTOWN and LIVERPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491
CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607
CITY OF CHESTER, 4566
CITY OF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS, 3775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS, 3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G. DALE, Agt.
•	15 Broadway, New York.
Or to JACOB WIDE,
Foreign Exchange and Passage Agent, oct5-tf	JUa Porte, Indiana.
Time Table-Nov. 11, 1877.
	•Mail	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -“ Mich. City -“ Niles	 “ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson - - - Ar. Detroit - -	7 00a.m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 5 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m • 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 »	515 p.m. 740 “ 9 00 “ 10 26 “ 12 50 a.m. 335 “	19 00 pm 115 “ 12 35 am 217 “ 4 45 “ 8 00 “
			•Jackson Express.		
					
	•Mail	♦Day Express.		+ Pacific Express	tEvening Express.
			5 40 a. m 8 40 “ 4 45 p. m 4 30 a.m 6 30 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “		
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson - - -“ Kalamazoo--“ Niles 		 “ Mich. City-- Ar. Chicago		7 00 a. m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 55 “	9 35 a. m 12 15 p.m 2 33 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		9 50 p.m. 12 45 a.m. 2 53 “ 424 “ 547 “ 8 00 “	6 20pm 940 “ 1235 a m 238 “ 415 “ 645 “	-
Niles and South Bend Hlvision.
•GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 30 p.m. “ N. Dame-8 52 “	638 “ Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “		•GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 415 pan. “ N. Dame—7 40 “	4 48 “ Ar. So-Bend—745 “ 4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted.	tDaily.	^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Hbnby C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, HI. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
696
[THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
W. S. Golsen.
D. R. Mullins.
Dealers in Chapin & Gore’s
NATIVE AND IMPORTED WINES.
FINEST IMPORTED CIGARS.
N. 3S. Cor. ILaSalle & Monroe Sts.
Henby Styles, Manager.	Cliicago.
f22-ly
A MAN
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUNTRY, WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP, THAT THE
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST AND THE WEST ’.
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs and Omaha, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo, Moline. Rock Island, Davenport, West Liberty. Iowa City, Marengo, Brooklyn, Grinnell and Des Moines, (the capital of Iowa) with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fair-Held, Eldon. Belknap. Centreville. Princeton. Trenton. Gallatin, Cameron. Leavenworth and Atchison; Washington to Sigourney. Oskaloosa and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Bentonsport, Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville. Oskaloosa. Pella. Monroe and Des Moines ; Des Moines to Indianola and Winterset; Atlantic to Audubon, and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad, which owns, controls and operates a through line between Chicago and Kansas.
This Company own and control their Sleeping Cars, which are inferior to none, and give you a double berth between Chicago and Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, or Atchison for Two Dollars and Fifty Cents, and a section for Five Dollars, while all other lines charge between the same points Three Dollars fora double berth, and Six Dollars for a section.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, while passing over the beautiful prairies of Illinois and Iowa, in one of our magnifleent Dining and Restaurant Cars that accompany all Through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any flrst-class hotel, for seventy-live cents; or you can order what you like, and pay for what you get.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes (and the enormous passenger business of this line warranting it), we are pleased to announce that this Company runs its PALACE SLEEPING CARS for Sleeping purposes, and its PALACE DINING CARS for Eating purposes. One other great feature of our Palace Cars is a
PAJGACE CARS are run through to PEORIA.DES MOINES, COUNCH. BIiUFFS, ATCUISOX and EE.VVENWORTH:
Tickets via this Line, known as the “Great Rock Island Route,’’ are sold by aH Ticket Agents In the United States and Canada.
For information not obtainable at your home ticket office, address.
A. KIMBALL,
Gen’l Superintendent,
EDWARD BUYSSE, DEALER IN Watches, Clocks, -AJSTID JEWELRY. All Kinds of Engraving Done. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
SMOKING SALOON where you can enjoy your "Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnifleent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouri rivers at all points crossed by this line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison, connections being made in Union depots.
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS :
At Chicago, with all diverging lines forthe East and South.
At Englewood, with the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern and Pittsburg, Ft. Wayne & Chicago R. lids.
At Washington Heights, with Pittsburg, Cincinnati A St. Louis R. R.
At LA Salle, with Illinois Central R. R.
At PEORIA, with P., P. A J.: P.. L. A D.; I. B. & W.; Ill. Midland; and T.. P. A W. Railroads.
At ROCK Island, with Western Union R. R. and Rock Island A Peoria Railroad.
At Davenport, with the Davenport & NorthWestern R. R. -
At West Liberty, with the Burlington, Cedar Rapids A Northern R. R.
At Grinnell, with Central R. R. of Iowa.
At des Moines, with D. M. A Ft. Dodge R. R.
At Council Bluffs, with Union Pacific R. R.
At O.maha, with B. A Mo. R. R. R. (in Neb.)
At Columbus Junction, with Burlington,Cedar Rapids A Northern R. R.
At Ottumwa, with Central R. R. of Iowa; St. Louis, Kan. City A Northern and C.. B. A Q. R. Rds.
At Keokuk, with Toledo, Peoria and Warsaw; Wabash, and St. Louis. Keokuk A N.-W. R. Rds.
At BEVERL r, with Kan. City, St. J. & C. B. K. R.
At Atchison, with Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe; Atchison A Neb. and Cen. Br. Union Pacific R. Rds.
At Leavenworth, with K. P. and K. Cen. R. Rds.	'
E. ST. JOHN,
Gen’l Tkt, and Pass’gr Ast., ' ..	Chicago, Ill.