®lje	o Iti $ t i c T) cn v.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY AT NOTRE DAME. DEVOTED TO THE INTERESTS OF THE STUDENTS.
Vol. I. sTSTotre Dame University, Dec. 28,1867. No. 17.
COLLEGrE statistics.
. We clip from the Castalia, a record of the University of Michigan for 1867-68, the following College Statistics. The table comprises most of the prominent colleges of the country, arranged in the order of their foundation. The statistics, with one or two exceptions, have been furnished by the authorities of the colleges themselves. In giving the number of students we have added those in the theological, law, and medical departments, when there were any. The number of alumni; however, includes only the regular graduates: .	■	'
NAME AND LOCATION!	Date of Organization.	Number of Instructors.	Number of , Alumni.	3 Si 02^. pU a o, B CT-CQ	Number of Volumes in Libraries.
Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass				1638	60	7,830	1,020	176,000
Yale College, New Haven, Conn....". 		1701	48	8400	690	74400
College of New Jersey Princeton N J.				1746	15	4420	' 259	23,000
Columbia College, New York City		 ..	1754	55	3,000	750	20,000
Brown University, Providence, It. I				1764	11	2,266	195	35,000
Dartmouth College, -Hanover, N. H		1769	21	3,527	332	37,967
Washington College, Lexington, Va	.......	1782	21	1,800	399	9400
Universitv of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, N. C			1795	9	L780	128	21,000
Williams College, Williamstown, Mass			~.			1793	12	2,150	182	17481
Union College, Schenectady, N. Y	,				1795	13	4,015	150	16400
Bowdoin College, Brunswick, Me,		1802	15	1,590	216	32438
Washington and Jefferson College, Canonsbur0', Pa				1802	13	3,059	211	15400
Hamilton College, Clinton, N. Y				1812	11	.1,219	198	20400
University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va					1819	14	548	490	35400
Amherst College, Amherst, Mass	  ■		1820	16	1,550	244	34,000
Lafayette College, Easton, Pa	'	,.		1826	16	' 348	112	5400
Wesleyan University, Middletown, Conn			1831	8	750	138	15,000
Universitv of New York Citv. N. Y	 ;.....	-----	1832	42	670	414	10,000
Oberlin College, Oberlin, 0						1834	20	945	309	14400
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich. 		1837	32 .	600	1,141	24,500
	1838	15	252	269	6 000
University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind.. .1 		1844	45	112	500	7,000
Beloit College, Beloit, Wis.... 1										1847	7	- 125;	70	6,000
College of the City of New York, New York City	■....	1848	31	370	320	14,500
University of Mississippi, Oxford, Miss			.'		18481	9	355	246	6,000
University of Rochester, Rochester, N. Y.	..’			1851	8	300	. 155	: 7,000
Chicago University, Chicago, Ill						1856	9	48	100	4,500
Kentucky University, Lexington, Ky					1859	17	—	373	15,000
THE SCHOLASTIC YEA[R.
THE CHRISTMAS OFFERING.
For Little Children before the Crib.
ALL.
Hark! coming from the. starlit sky, The angel voices ringing,—
“ Great glory be to God on high, In. sweetest music ringing.
“And peace on earth to willing hearts, Sweet peace, and glad salvation,” Sounds through the quiet midnight air In joyful exultation.
For unto us the Son of God, The Saviour great and holy, Is newly born in Bethlehem’s cave, An Infant meek and lowly.
Oh, let us seek Him where He lies, To praise Him and adore Him, And standing by His straw-filled crib, Offer our gifts before Him.
FAITH.
I offer, Lord, a simple heart, And faith for gift it brings;
And of thy glories,—hidden thus In humblest guise—it sings.
hope. ,
I bring Thee, Lord, a fervent hope, A trust that ne’er shall waver,
A firm, unfailing confidence In Thee, my God and Saviour.
LOVE.
I offer, Lord, a heart to love, First Thee and then my neighbor, And .fain to prove its offering true, By self-denying labor.
MEEKNESS.
To Thee, who bearest all our wrongs. And pitying .all our weakness, Still winning us with gentleness, Meek Jesus, I bring meekness.
PATIENCE.
To do or suffer what thou wilt, • I offer, Lord, a patient heart, That hath no other will but Thine, -If only Thou the strength impart.
humility. • ’
To Thee whom love hath humbled thus, To take our lowly nature,—
I offer, Lord, the lowly heart That best befits Thy creature.
MODESTY.
To Thee who hidest Thy glories bright That angels joy to see,
I offer, Lord, the lovely grace
Of holy modesty.
MERCY.
To Thee who came to win for us,
Mercy and grace and heaven,
I offer, Lord; a heart that would Forgive, as ’tis forgiven.
ZEAL,
An eager heart to know Thy will,
A zealous hand Thy work to do, I offer, Lord, with gladsome mind '
That longs to prove its offering true.
ALL.
The offerings of our guileless hearts ' We bring, dear Jesus, mild and sweet, And ask Thy Mother dear and ours
To lay them for us at Thy feet.
Thy simple little children we,
Whose love is told in simplest strain, Yet wouldst Thou have it mingle with
The angel choirs deep refrain.
“NEW YEARS.”
[Instead of giving to our young friends, the readers of the Scholastic, some rather long, though very interesting words of advice for the coming year, we present to their attention the following reflections from the pen of one they /well know and-whom they have often heard.— Ed. J
We wish “A Happy New Year” to you all young friends, and we. mean what we write. These words are often uttered flippantly or for form sake, but just now we are earnestly and really desiring the happiness of each and every one of our young readers, and especially of those whose interest is the principal object of the publication of our little journal; and, here let us say a few words to you in particular, James, John, Thomas, Edward and all the rest! We .suppose each one Of you think now—as we often thought when a boy—that you will do better in 1868, than you have done in any former year. .That’s right. We all ought to determine to improve more and more every year that passes along. But mere wishing and resolving will never accomplish any good;. Suppose, for instance, James wishes to go a fishing, and having
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	3
obtained permission from his prefect or parents as the case may be, resolves to go early to-morrow morning. Does he rest satisfied with the wish and the resolution? No. He begins to think about the hooks, lines, poles and bait, and he not only thinks and plans about them, but he goes to work at once in hunting them up and getting them ready. He lays specific plans and begins to do something. In the morning he is up and he does something at once, and he keeps doing something all day; walking, hunting a good place, or patiently holding the pole until his arms fairly, ache, and at night he is rewarded with a heavy string of good fishes. What would you think of him if he sat still all the previous evening, and all the morning and all the day thinking how nice it would be to have a glorious nibble, and to haul out plenty of big fishes and to bring home a string full ? But, how many boys (and grown up people too) sit and think over how nice it would be to be kind-hearted, obedient and amiable, to be able to curb an angry spirit, to avoid profane and unseemly words and thoughts, and to speak kindly to every one, even to the brutes; to do acts of kindness, in short, to have a good heart. Yet how often do they rest satisfied with the wish and the resolve, and even take credit to themselves for having these good wishes and resolutions, but do nothing.	.
Now young friends when you think over some bad 'habit you wish to overcome, or some good 'habit you wish to acquire, set right about the work of accomplishing the end. Lay your plans just as James planned his arrangements for fishing. Begin now, and “ hold on until the arms ache.” Don’t say to-morrow, or next week I shall begin, but begin now. Does that quick temper trouble you, set a watch over it now, and the very first time it .begins to rise, remember your resolve and check it at once; keep repeating the same effort every time there is occasion, and by-and-by you will master it. Hold the pole until your arms ache, and you will catch the desired fish. Firm resolutions with well defined plans and prompt action, will accomplish wonders, start right off. Begin now, begin well; keep at it through the year, and at its close if you live till then, you will look back with pleasure upon the year 1868.
The dissection of human bodies was regarded as a sacrilegious act until the time of Charles.the Fifth. This emperor consulted the theologians of Salamanca to know if it was not a crime to dissect a human body in order to discover its structure.	•
.	' EXHIBITIONS.
It is the opinion of some who have either not sufficiently considered the subject, or have not had an opportunity of taking a practical view of it, that exhibitions,-.musical entertainments, debates and lectures, together with the time em-. ployed in their preparation, are no more than so much waste to the college student; or if. looked upon as necessary recreation to relieve the tedium of college life, that they are an unhealthy form of recreation, or at least less healthy than athletic sports. Now this-opinion is a mistake. The development of the intellect is always to be subservient, not only to the religious and moral, but even to the social virtues. We may admire a “gigantic intellect,” as we may admire a giant of physical strength. Both are sublime in their way, and so is the crater of Mount Vesuvius. We like to take a good look at them, and then go and live as far away from them as possible. A man whose whole soul is given up to intellectual ' culture, is necessarily devoid of social virtue—he is in fact a pedant and a bore. It is hard, perhaps, for a student to realize that an act of mere courtesy-to a passing stranger, which will probably be forgotten as soon as performedj is better and nobler, in its kind (we do not say in its degree) than the resolution of a difficult problem in science, which he will remember as a triumph as long as he lives. Nevertheless, such is undoubtedly the case. So that the cultivation of the social virtues should go hand-in-hand with intellectual progress, and intellect itself should be made to contribute its quota to social harmony. Now, independent of the real mental discipline and drilling consequent on the preparation of these exhibitions, and the Eesthetic culture not only of those who take part, but of those who witness them, they afford the chief means of attaining these desired social results, of which the life of a student admits. Lessons of mutual cooperation and forbearance, of generous pleasure in the success of friends, and the union of sympathies on a subject of common interest, are taught and learned. In fact, these days of exhibition are the bright spots in the scholastic year, and are felt to be such by at least ninety-nine hundredths of the sojourners within our college walls.
Our public-spirited societies, literary, musical and dramatic, were never in better trim than at present,—never better able to get up a good entertainment on a short notice. The painting of the interior of Washington Hall has added a
4	THE SCHOLASTIC TEAR.
great deal to the effect of our exhibitions, and the finishing touches that are needed about the stage are promised by our talented artist as soon as the labors of his many duties allow him time. But Washington Hall itself has found a rival in the large parlor, which as a room for entertain-tainments, is certainly more comfortable, though not capable of accommodating so extensive an audience. To Prof. Corby’s Philharmonic Association we owe the discovery of the available facilities of the parlor for exhibitions. We mentioned some time ago, a soiree given by them to a large audience, which has been since followed by another to a larger one. This Association now counts the following officers and members: E. E. Hull, President; W. T. Dunlap, Secretary ; S. B. Hibben, Librarian; J. Dickinson, Censor; J. McBride, N. S. Wood, A. O’Reilly, S. Corby, F. Guthrie, E. B. Walker, Joseph Lafferty, S. M. Dyan, F. Ingersoll, H. P. Morancy, E. Teats and W. B. Smith.
The St. Joseph’s Musicial Association, mentioned in our last, make instrumental music their forte, with incidental digressions into the vocal; the Philharmonics reverse this order, but neither society enter upon the domains of the other any further than to dove-tail the. union between them. The Philodemic and St. Edward’s Literary Societies, keep up a similar generous emulation. A membership of either one of these societies is really as useful to the student as attendance on two classes. The prosperity of literary societies is the best index of the intellectual status of the college, and judging by our present information, it must now be in an eminently healthy condition. The Thespians have as yet no rivals, and as the St. Cecilia Philomatheans aim at uniting all that is literary, musical, or dramatic in their department into one harmonious whole, they may be said to be unrivalled also. We are now on the tip-toe of expectation for the Thespian entertainment promised during the holidays, which we understand is to be appropriate to this season of festivity, though but a moiety of our fellow-students remain to enjoy-ft. But the grand united exhibition to be given by all our societies on Washington’s Birth-day, the 22d February' is expected to be something truly superb, beyond anything we have ever done here before. The improvements mentioned as requisite to complete the appearance of the hall will, by that time, no doubt, be finished; and the roll-calls of the respective associations will be full. The month of February generally finds the study-rooms fuller
than any other time of the year. The beginning of a new term renews the student’s enthusiasm, and the lengthening days begin to raise thoughts of the glories of the coming summer. In fact, all things seem to conspire to make Washington’s Birth-day an era in the scholastic year; and 1868, according to present indications, will bring to light a festival surpassing any that have gone before. ;	'
JUNIORS’ CHRISTMAS TIME.
Last evening we were sitting in our sanctum after a pleasantly spent day with a number of visitors from Ohio and Missouri, (to whom we again wish a happy new year, as well as to all our friends who visited us, and to those who did not) when our ears were delighted with some sweet distant music,—we were going to say sweetly distant—but that would not perhaps convey our exact meaning, as the music’s sweetness did not depend on the space between us and it, and we think all this talk about distance lending enchantment to the view, or sound, or any thing else, is composed principally of bosh, for our general experience has gone to prove the contrary for every thing that has any enchantment about it. But we do not wish to impose our theories-on our readers, especially just now when we have so much to say about Christmas at Notre Dame. We return then to our music: it came nearer and nearer, and became sweeter and sweeter—disproving that theory of - “ distance, etc.,”—we hastily left our chair and threw open windows, thrust out head and ears, and then and there had a complete view of the scene and hearing of the harmony. Some dozen or more of the gallant Juniors were in front of the Study Hall, where Brother Florentius, with his birds and pictures and' flowers and gallant young Juniors, reigns supreme. These dozen or more G. J.’s were giving an early serenade to Brother Florentius and his Study Hall, and were heartily responded to by the canaries and mocking birds, who were, we suppose, as agreeably surprised as we were ourselves. Krookatoa, the great singer, —the Prima Donna of all the canaries, and Joke, a most obstreperous octoroon of black bird affinity, who had to be expelled from the studyroom, sang out most enthusiastically in a duet, and were joined in a grand chorus by the mocking birds and canaries.
Human nature, with us very much given to musical sounds, no matter whether from a hand
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	,	5
I
)
I
organ or a grand, orchestral performance, could stand it no longer, and we went to the studyroom, where we saw what we shall now endeavor to give our readers an idea of.
All the visitors to Notre Dame have seen the Junior Study-room; we do not now intend to give a description of the whole room, as it would take up all our space merely to give a categorical list of the canaries’ and mocking birds’ names. Krookatoa has already been '‘honorably mentioned, ” and would deserve to be so every week if the canaries of Notre Dame had to be as regularly named as the fine singers of St. Mary’s, who distinguished themselves in the Grand Concert given by them and Prof. Ziegfeld, some weeks ago in South Bend. Besides Krookatoa, there are Jimmy and Tommy and Dicky and Laurence, the latter bird named after Laurence, who sings so beautifully from morning to night,—“qui vous chantera des chansons sans fin"—and the mocking birds, Brownlow and Etheridge—and others. We must pass over the pictures, the Chinese Lanterns that during Christmas time adorn the windows,—the beautiful evergreens, comprising such a collection that Father Carrier is the only one around the Establishment who, off hand, could name you the names of each and all.
For the information of our friends who have not seen the Juniors’ Study-Hall, we state that it is, according to our eye, about one hundred feet long by fifty wide. When we entered the studyroom, drawn by the musical strains of Air. Schmeltz, we entered by the front door, and found the long hall brilliantly lighted up by the care of Brothetlsidore, who had paid particular attention to the lamps on this evening. The birds, deceived by the brilliancy of the lamps, thought, likely, the sun had forgot to set, or had hurried himself to get up, and were trilling out all * imaginable notes, from the shrill soprano of Krookatoa to the mellow baritone of the mocking bird, who with an eye to-improvement,—fit model to all gallant Juniors—was even in that festal time eager for improvement, had his ears open for all'new and particular notes, and was repeating them sotto voce for his owm sole edification. A large musical box, which for the present takes the place of the Grand Chickering Piano that the Juniors intend to place in their study hall, was discoursing brilliant overtures from the best known and most approved Operas.-At the end of the study hall opposite the principal .door, was erected the Crib,—the traditionary creche,—which, under the facile hands of Brothers
Benjamin and Florentius, aided by the immense wealth, of vases, laces, artificial flowers, statues, pictures, wax-tapers, candles, colored-lamps and natural flowers, had taken a fairy appearance. And here again, we saw the nonsense about “ distance lending, etc.”—the Crib was beautiful at a distance, but still more so when we came closer,—we now regret that we have not a little of the ability of Jenkins, to describe minutely the little details of the Crib, which give the peculiar character to each individual—we can only say that the general effect was most beautiful, the main objects being the figure of the Divine Babe, of our Blessed Lord, in the manger, and those of the Blessed Virgin and St. Joseph watching over Him. No attempt was made to introduce the sbep-herds-and other figures which add to the picture, or tableau, when well proportioned, but which detract so much from it when they do not harmonize with the main figures. On each side of the Crib were beautiful vases, large sized, filled with white roses, back of which, were evergreens, _ and flanking these the two Christmas trees, well laden with good things to be distributed to the Juniors the following evening. '
These trees are specimens of their kind, the green leaves contrasting well with the bright colored candies, fruits and toys that made the branches bend.	.
We suppose the Seniors will have some grand entertainment, and that our Editors next week will give us an account of it. We know that at St. Mary’s they had a really nice time with Santa Claus redivivus, and we are looking every moment for a line from Kris Kinkle—the Minims too had
quite an evening of it on St. Stephen’s night, but without meaning to praise the Juniors unduly, we must say that to our taste the Juniors in their
Crfiche and Study Hall excel any and every thing we have seen this season. Success to them. May they study hard after tbeir few days of vacation,
and sustain the noble reputation they have long since gained, of being the merriest players, the heartiest eaters, if exception be made for the,, benefit of the Minims, the politest and best be
haved lads, and the most thorough going students
in the great North West.
Poltroon.—Saumaise gives the following etymology of • the expression poltroon. It comes, he says, from the Latin word pollice truncus, (who has the thumb cut off.) In the Eastern Empire of Constantinople many young men, being drafted into the army against their will, cut off their thumbs to render themselves unfit for military service.
6
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.
OHEONI0LE.
CHRISTMAS WEATHER—THE INFIRMARY BAND— EXHIBITIONS, ETC. • ’
As we sit at our window, we see a number of the Seniors engaged in the athletic game of Foot Ball, and enjoying themselves hugely; the Christmas weather is really delightful, and the students think of taking a trip to Niles; we hope they will have a pleasant time.
The skating that was so very good last week is entirely broken up, and the high ways and byways around the college are made almost impassible by the thaw.
We are glad to announce that the old saying of fine weather at Christmas being unhealthy, has been proved to be false this year; for with all the fine weather the Invalid Band, that doth love to congregate in the Senior Infirmary SittingRoom, is wonderfully diminished. It . may be that many of that select companie, of that chosen few, have gone home. We, the chronicler —we say We like the Editor, we suppose that our correspondents have supplied “ The Scholastic ” with reports of Christmas Time from the various neighboring localities. Lowell, we know, had a splendid Christmas Tree. St. Mary’s, of course, had Santa Claus, and we heard from Mr. Neil of St. Louis, our particular friend, that he was greatly taken with Santa Claes, as seen at St. Mary’s. St. Rose’s Academy in Laporte, we hear, had a Christmas Tree, and fixings,—St. Angela’s too ; and the Academy of Sacie Coeur, we opine was not behindhand. St. Joseph’s Academy, South Bend, has been silent for some time past; perhaps the pupils were observing the spirit of Advent, but now that the New Year is close at hand, we hope their mouths will be opened. The Minims have had their time, and the Juniors are par excellence the Christmas observers of Notre Dame.	*
The Seniors are reserving themselves for New Year’s Eve. We say nothing of the midnight mass at Notre Dame, the music of Prof. Girac’s choir, led by Bro. Leopold, on account of the Professor’s indisposition—the Solos, by Profs. Corby 'and Von Weller, and the still finer music at 12 o’clock Mass, directed by Professor Girac himself, with the rich and striking orchestra accompaniment, the organ being presided over by Prof. Lilly.
It is too solemn $ matter for us to describe the Mass, in that august act we never like to bring persons in, yet all who have heard Very Rev. Father Provincial celebrate have had their hearts
raised to God, and gone away edified with the dignity—we might say the majesty, of the ceremonies when he is the celebrant. Very Rev. Father Provincial preached at midnight Mass, and Rev.
Father Superior at 10 o'clock. •
. The interior of the college is being renovated; new carpets and mats put down on the principal halls; the class rooms and study rooms thoroughly cleaned out. When our home visitors return, they will be astonished ar the change for the better.
NOTES AND EEMAEES.
Up to the last moment before going to press we were expecting an account of the Christmas festivities at St. Mary’s. Our great expectations have not yet been realized.
Professor Howard, always in earnest when the interests of his classes are concerned, has sent us • several articles from the pens of his composition class. We thank him; and though the articles vdo not appear in this number, he, and the writers, are informed that The Scholastic Repertoire takes special care of all such good productions, and will give them out in good time.
The next number of The Scholastic, the first No. of 1868, will be edited by three of the students—Messrs. W. T. Johnson, J. Fitzharris and G. Dixon—who, with a score or more of other students, intend to make The Scholastic Year a real college paper, and more interesting than ever. Our readers, we feel certain, will like the change.	.	•
Received—“ Pleasant Memories	by Xenos.
“ The Pleasures of the Memory f* by F. Guthrie.
Crowdep Out—“An Account of the Juniors’ Festival, on the Eye of the Holy Innocents.”
Rev. Father Carrier has been the recipient of a gift from a distinguished clergyman of the diocese, and sends for publication the following acknowledgment.
The Rev. . Simon Barthos, Pastor of the German Catholic Church of Laporte, Ind., has generously donated to this Institution a very valuable collection of exotic Fems and other foreign specimens of natural History. The collection of Fems (Filices) contains more than 150 species divided into about 28 genera.
The Rev. donor is a Pole by birth; and being an ardent lover of the natural sciences, particularly of Botany, he left his country and relinquished^ position of honor which he occupied in the Uni
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR.	'7
versity of Cracow, for the two-fold praiseworthy purpose of evangelizing the natives of New Zealand, and of exploring the natural resources of some of the South Sea Islands. During his long residence in New Zealand and other islands of Polynesia, F. Barthos collected a great’ many specimens of the Flora and Fauna of that remote part of the world. One part of his rich collections he sent to the museum of his native city, and the other part he has now kindly presented to the University of Notre Dame. We are assured that we possess all, or very nearly all, the species of Ferns to be found in New Zealand.
We -beg the Rev. Gentleman to accept our warmest thanks.
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR EOR’1868.
With the first number of The Scholastic for the first six months of 18G8, a new Direction will be inaugurated for our little paper.
The committee appointed some time ago to relieve the Editor from much of his care and responsibility, have determined to give the paper almost entirely in charge of the students,—of course under the control of one of the members of the Faculty.
Some twenty-four students have been chosen to form the Editorial Corps. Three every week will have charge of the number, write the Editorials, and see that contributions be furnished to make the paper interesting. The general news of classes will of course be still given by the Reverend Director of Studies; apart from this and the official reports from Schools and Academies, the Editors will have the control of the paper.
In order to encourage the circulation of the paper among our friends, and to put it in the power of every student of Notre Dame to subscribe for the paper and have it bound and thus keep for years a record of their stay at college, we will place the subscription for the coming six months at One Dollar and a half.
As at least five pages of the eight that at present make up The Scholastic, will be filled exclusively by the students, there is no necessity for us to recommend the paper to them.	.
Messrs. W. T. Johnson, J. Fitzharris and Geo. Dixon will edit the first number.
We will, in our next, give the name of the • present Editors, and the numbers that are to be edited by each.	:
Some of the old students of the college, now : engaged in busy life, think they will find leisure to help along their younger brothers, and add to ! the interest of The Scholastic Year for 1868. * :
The Reading'Eoom.	.	:
There will be a special meeting of the Editori- i al Corps, to arrange their Reading Room. Seve- : ral of that body are now enjoying themselves at , home, and the meeting must therefore bp postponed until after their return. This announcement should make every Senior return to College as soon as possible, for the meeting cannot be put off longer than to the 1st of January. . j
Skating was unavoidably “ crowded out” last week.	-
Skating
Is still in the ascendant, and seems to have gained a decided advantage over the more substantial winter amusement of sleighing, which is at present nowhere, although the threatening (or promising) black clouds which extend from : our zenith to the visible horizon, no doubt contain great stores of the principal sleighing requi- • site. But skating’may continue still through the Christmas holidays, and will, no doubt,’be very acceptable to those who don’t sleigh. Last Monday, the crystal surface of the frozen lake was . bespotted with a moving multitude, rejoicing in the delight of hard-won recreation. Stars appeared even in the noon-day radiance of the solar luminary. There was a perplexing medley of transits, occultations, culminations, binary sys-^ terns, and various other celestial phenomena.
• The descending node met the plane of revolution sometimes with considerable violence.
Parabolic, hyperbolic and even diabolic curves -were visible in all directions. Two members bf the (deceased) Analytical Geometry class undertook to prove that the hyperbola would never meet its asymptote. One skated the curve and the other the asymptote, carefully making the product of the obscissa and ordinate constantly equal to one fourth the sum of the squares of the semi-major and semi-
THE SCHOLASTIC YEAR. ,
minor axis. Unfortunately, however, for the demonstration, they came into violent contact with a young gentleman who was cutting a circle backwards, whereupon hyperbola, asymptote and circle all came to'a sudden conclusion.
True friendship begets a happiness nearly allied to the bliss of heaven. It is the balm of a wounded spirit,—the solace of grief.
Philodemic.
Tuesday evening, Dec. 17, the above society held its regular weekly meeting, at which the question whether “ The death of Cassar was beneficial to Rome,” was debated. The affirmative was sustained by Messrs. B. H. Thomas and A. M. Owen, and the negative by Messrs. H. D. Rodman and W. Cochrane. The life of Caesar was reviewed in a brief manner, and from the weight of the arguments advanced by the affirmative, the decision was given in its favor.
Mr. R. M. Short then delivered the “ Fall of Warsaw,” in a becoming manner. After the reading of the “ Gazette of the Two-Penny Club,” the meeting adjourned.	J. D. M.
Mr. Editor: On last Tuesday evening the Philodemic Society was treated to a. splendid debate. Messrs S. S. Moore and W. Walker on the affirmative, and Mr. James Cunnea and Geo. Dixon on the negative. After a very spirited contest of one hour and a half s debate, the Rev. President decided in favor of the negative.
J. O’R.
•-------------
Literary Rooms, No. Four ) December 18th, 1867.
Mr. Editor : The St. Edward’s Literary Association held its thirteenth regular session last evening, at which the subject: Resolved that the Legislature should have the right; to regulate the tariff on rail-roads,” was discussed on the Affirm-mative by Messrs. J. Keveney and D. Clark; on the Negative by Messrs. C. Campbell and E. B. Walker. The debaters were not sufficiently conversant with the subject, in consequence of which the discussion was not very animated. Mr. Keveney, however, produced some very good argu-mentSj and Mr. Clarke gave some very good reasons for the expediency of such a regulation.
After the close of the debate, Mr. J. Fitzharris • was requested to make an address, but he declined in favor of Mr. T. Ewing, who, very obligingly took the stand, and entertained the society for about fifteen minutes, in a highly interesting speech, on the “ Extent of the English Language.”
’	- Yours truly,
“ Tebpikeraunos.”
Mr. Editor : ■ You will please grant us the pleasure of inserting the following in The Scholastic Year:	-	.
The organization of the St. Edward’s Skating Club, took place on the 9th inst. This association is to consist of Juniors only. The principal object of the meeting, held at the same time, was the election of the officers under the Directorship of Bro. Florentius. The following gentlemen ’ were unanimously chosen as officers, viz:
President—J. M. Flanigen.
Vice-President—J. C. Skelly.
. Recording Secretary—H. L. Eisenman.
Corresponding Secretary—H. P. Morancy.
Treasurer—J. W. Sutherland.
Assistant Treasurer—John Broderick.	•
------<i —1>---;—
St. Rose’s Academy, )
Dec. 16, 1867 f •
The Cross of Honor was awarded in the Senior Department to Miss M. Dunn.
The Intermediate—L. Rumely.
The Junior—B. Steinfeldt.
HONORABLE MENTION.
Senior Department—Misses A. Ranson and E. Weber.
First Intermediate—Misses W. Ludlon and E. Butler.
Second Intermediate—Misses E. Boice and L.
Bader.
First Junior—Miss E. Dallon.
Second, Junior—Miss K. Shanon. ;
Ike has gone home to spend Christmas Day and New Year’s. He wrote for permission and received the following letter, which Isaac, in great glee, read to us:
Dear Isaac: You may come home during the hallow days I guess they are pretty hard to fill up at schools—boys especially—and in these hard times it is hard to fill them any where—I’ve tried to and for that porpus have bought a two (2) turkeys, and one (1) goose and by the time you get here I’ll have another. .
Your Mother.
P. S.—Tell that peark professor that explained the telescope and heavens to me that if he comes with you he’ll be' welcome and that I’ll have a third goose by the occasion.
