The Scholastic.
pEVOTED TO THE
^TUDENTS
Disce quasi semper vieturus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume VIII.
NOTSE DAME, INDIANA, MAY, 22 1875.
Number 35.
JNO. HAGERTY, City Judge.
JJAGERTY & TONG,
L. G. TONG,
Notaby Public.
HARDWARE MERCHANTS.
118 MICHIGAN St.,
- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
REAL ESTATE and INSURANCE AGENTS, Agents for Steamship Lines. collections solicited.
9 Odd Fellows’ Block, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
o24-ly
Before going elsewhere, go to
lu, ‘	’ Dealer in
HATS, CAPS, TRUNKS, Boys’ Clothing and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., o24-tf .	South Bend, Indiana.
£) J. HOLLAND, & Co., Wholesale Manufacturers of
HAVANA AND DOMESTIC CIGARS
—ALSO— -
WHOLESALE JOBBERS and GENERAL DEALERS Office with M. Stover, Room 33, over Wills & Sterna,
IN SMOKERS' ARTICLES.
1OO MICHIGAN St.,
SO UTH BEND IND., oM-tf.
HEAUQUABTESS FOB
Cutlery, Skates, Cartridges, Fishing-Tackle, Etc.
Desk-Locks, Padlocks, Japanned Boxes, etc., o24-tf
y NICAR,
* DEALER IN HARDWARE,
91 MICHIGAN St., - -	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
ALT. SORTS OF
Cutlery, Tale Desk-Locks, Fishing-Tackle, Etc
Skates, Cartridges, Tin Trunks, Etc.
o24-tf
J. STAGE,
’ COUNTY SURVEYOR,
Is now prepared to execute work in the Departments of
Land Surveying, Grading, Hydraulics, etc.
^“Orders expeditiously attended to.SH
Washington St., South Bend, Indiana.
nov 28-56tf.
E. CUMMINS,
DENTIST
No. 96 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana.
J^£RS. C. S. STOVER,
MILLINER,
129 Michigan Street, South.[Bend, Indiana.}
DEALER IN
Millinery Goods, Hats, J Bonnets, Laces, &c.

(Over Wyman’s.)
Do you want a drive ? Go to
JgEN COQUILLARD’S
Corner of Michigan and J(person Streets, South. Bend, Indiana.
o24-3m
^^The young ladies at St. Mary’s Academy will find it to their advantage to give her a call.	apU7
o24-2m
Q.EORGE HEHR,
FASHIONABLE TAILOR, AND GEN ER Alt REALER HT Cloths, Cassimeres and Vestings. No. Ill MICHIGAN STREET, • SOUTH BEND, IND. (Up Staiis.)	% o24-tf
&
THE
BOND HOUSE
Niles, ----- Michigan. UlcKAT, Proprietor.
Free Hack to and from all trains, for guests of the house, nor 2S-& tf.
The Students’ Office!
XXXJJSTZBY’ EXiTTZA, Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Cigars, Tobaccos, Pipes, etc.
Dfo. 54 WasliinRton St., S
apI24
514
THE SCHOLASTIC.
CARPENTER HATTER!
OLOTHIJSTG- TTOTTSE.
■ 10.3 MICHIGAN St. dec 5-jgtf.
SOUTH BEND.
PROPRIETOR OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S ’BUS LINE!
Whilst I retail my thanks to the patrons of Notre Dame and St, Mary’s, I beg leave to inform the public that I have, at the urgent request of many of my patrons, purchased SEVERAL NEW CARRIAGES and BUGGIES, and moved into the LIVERY STABLES
Attached to flic National Hotel,
Adjacent to the Michigan Southern Depot.
Now, that telegraphic communication has been made between Notre Dame and my office, through the Michigan Southern Depot, I shall be prompt to have passengers in time to meet all trains.
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
myl5-tf.
Michigan Central Railroad.
MEYER LIVINGSTON, CO NVasIiiiigton Street, [Three Doors West of Blum’s Cigar Store] SOUTH ZHZElUSTZD.,
ESgTKeeps on hand a large stock of Hats, Caps, Clothing, and Gents’ Furnishing Goods. All the Students should give nim a Call. •	-	al7
A. KLINGEL & SONS,
69 Washington Street.
• SOTTTZEI LBZEZTID, USTTDTJLlSrJL.
Keep constantly on hand a complete assortment of
MEN’S AND BOYS’ FINE BOOTS AND SHOES.
OF THE
Celebrated BURT,
LILLY YOUNG PRATT
and
Bracket & Botden’
Hand and Machine Sewed Goods.
THE
LARGEST STOCK
IN THE CITY.
Give us a Call and See the Nobby Styles.
LADIES,
We would call your attention to our immense stock of FINE SHOES of all the standard makes.	a!7
WINTER ARRANGEMENT.
Taking effect December 27th, 1874.
Going	East.	
Trains.	Leave Chicago.	Leave Niles.	Arrive at Detroit
Mail - -	-	5 00 a m	9 02 am	5 45 pm
Day Express -	- 830am	11 47 a m	6 30 pm
Accommodation -	3 35pm	7 35pm	8 45 am
Atlantic Express - 515 p m	8 55 p m	3 50 am
Night Express - -9 pm Going	1245 pm West.	8 00 am J
Trains.	Leave Detroit.	Leave Niles.	Arrive at Chicago.
Mail -	-	- ,7 00 am	4 05 pm	8 05 pm
Day Express -	- 10 20 am	520pm	9 00 p m '
Accommodation -	150 p m	6 30 am	10 35 am
Evening Express - 5 40pm	230am	630am
Pacific Express - - 10 00 p m	5 00 am	830 am
NILES AND SOUTH BEND DIVISION.
Leave South Bend—8 am, 3 pm, 6 30 pm, *9 am, *7 pm.
’ Arrive at Niles—8 45am, 3 55pm, 710pm *940am,*740pm.
Leave Niles—6 30 am, 9 20 am, 5 10 pm, *8 am, +5 pm.
Arrive at South Bend—715 am, 10 am, 555pm,+ 840 am,+540pm
NOTBE DAME STATION.
Groing East, via Wiles.
Depart—807 am, 638 pm,+9 07 am, +7 07pm.
-	Arrive—7 07 am, 9 42 am, 546 pm, +832 am, +532pm
Going West, via Wiles.
■	Depart—310 p m. Arrive—9 42 a m.
Trains marked thus ♦ + run Sunday only.
C. D. WHITCOMB, General Ticket Agent, Detroit, Mich.
FRANK E. SNOW, Gen. Western Passenger Agent, Chicago, Ill.
G.	L. ELLIOTT, Passenger and Freight Agent, South Bend, Ind.
B. CELESTINE, Ticket Agent, Notre Dame, Ind.
H.	C. WENTWORTH,	W. B. STRONG,
General Passenger Agent,	General Superintendent,
Chicago.	Chicago.
L. S. & M. S. RAILWAY.
On and after Sunday, Dec. 1, 1874, trains will leave South Bend
tfollows:
GOING EAST.
2.35 A. st. (No. 8), Night Express, over Main Line, Arrives at Toledo, 10.20; Cleveland, 2.45 p. si.; Buffalo, 8.55 p. si.
10.12 a. sr. (No. 2), Mail, overMain Line; Arrives at Toledo, 11.57 p. si.; Cleveland, 9.50
11.57 a. st. (No. 4), Special New York Express, over Air Line; Arrives at Toledo, 5.25; Cleveland, 9.40 p. st.; Buffalo 4.20 a. sr.
9.11 r. st.(No. 6), Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.40; Cleveland, 7.05; Buffalo, 1.10 P. st.
8.00 p. st. (No. 10) Toledo Express, Main Line. Arrives at ’ Toledo,'2.30 a. ar„ Cleveland 7.05 a. m., Buffalo 1’10 ?. st.
5*44 r. M. [No.70], Local Freight.
GOING WEST.
3.18 a. sr. (No. 3), Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.15; Chicago 6 30 a. st.
5.24 a. m. (No. 5), Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 6.15 ' Chicago, 8.30 a. sr.
6.31 p. st. (No. 7), Evening Express, Main Line. Arrives at Laporte, 7.30; Chicago, 10. p. sr.
. 5.44 p. st. (No. 1), Special Chicago Express Arrives at Laporte. 6.35; Chicago, 9.
8.00 A. st. (No. 9), Accommodation. Arrives at Lapoote 8.55
• A. st, Chicago 11.10.
9.15 a. sr. [No. 71J Local Freight.
. Note. Conductors are positively forbidden to carry passengers upon Through Freight Trains.	.
J. W. CARY, General Ticket Agent. Cleveland, Ohio.
F. E. MORSE, General Western Passenger Agent.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t Western Division, Chicago.
W. W. GIDDINGS, Freight Agent.
S. J. POWELL, Ticket Agent, South Bend.
f	CHARLES PAINE, Gen’l Sup’t.
Cliicago, Rock Island, and. Pacific Tt. It.
Depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman sts. Ticket-office, -	Grand Pacific Hotel.
Trains. maha, Leavenworth and	HEAVE.	ARRIVE.	1
Atchison Express,	10.13 a m	3.30 p m	<
Peru Accommodation,	5.00 p m	9.30 am	
Night Express*	10.30 p m	6.15 a m	
The Scholastic.
PIVOTED TO THE
OF THE
TUDENTS.
Disce quasi semper vieturus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Volume VIII,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY, 22 1875
Number 35. ■
Ths Angelus.
HEABD IN THE MISSION DOLOBES, 1868.
Bells of the Past, whose long forgotten music Still fills the wide expanse,
Tinging the sober twilight of the Present
With color of romance,
I hear you call, and see the sun descending On rock, and wave, and sand,
As down the coast the Mission voices blending
Girdle the heathen land.
Within the circle of your incantation
No blight or mildew falls;
Nor fierce unrest, nor lust, nor low ambition, Passes those airy walls.
Borne on the swell of your long waves receding, I touch the farther Past—
I see the dying glow of Spanish glory, The sunset dream and last.
Before me rise the dome-shaped Mission towers,
The white Presidio,
i	The swart commander in his leathern jerkin,
|	The priest in stole of snow.
5	Once more I see Portala’s cross-uplifting,
<	Above the setting sun ;
j	And past the headland', Northward, slowly drifting
I	The freighted galleon.
J	O solemn bells! whose consecrated Masses
;	Recall the faith of old—
’	O tinkling bells I that lulled with twilight music
[	The spiritual fold!
i	Your voices break and falter in the darkness—
Break, falter and are still ;1
And veiled and mystic, like the Host descending, The sun sinks from the hill!
—Bret Harte.
Alchemy and. the Alchemists.
V.—Did the Alchemists Make Gold?
The principles of alchemy were now subjected to a severe examination. The dicta of Aristotle, Geber and others began gradually to lose that authority which had attached to them for so many generations past. Men no longer showed a disposition to allow to mere hypotheses the force of dogma, or to accept as true, theories that could not be verified by direct experiment. Among those whose labors contributed most to the overthrow of alchemy may be mentioned, besides Paracelsus and Van Helmont, the learned Jesuit Father Kircher, Agricola, Tiberius, and
Boerhaave, all of whom enriched with many important contributions the then scanty store of chemical knowledge and cleared the way for the investigations of Stahl, Boyle, Cavendish, Black, Scheele, Lavoiser,1 Priestly, and others scarcely less renowned, whose united efforts have raised chemistry to that exalted position among the sciences, it now occupies. To give an idea of the untiring industry and perseverance of these new investigators, it will be sufficient to mention a few of the experiments of Boerhaave. The alchemists had held that mercury could by the continued action of heat be converted into an infusible metal, and that the same substance could by repeated distillations be rendered more volatile. To contradict the first statement, Boerhaave maintained a certain quantity of mercury at a moderate heat for the long space of 15 years without observing any change to take place in the liquid metal; another portion was strongly heated in a closed vessel for six months, with the same result. To disprove the second statement, that mercury could be rendered more volatile by redistillation, he distilled a quantity of pure mercury 500 times, and found that its boiling point still remained unaltered. This forcibly reminds us of a similar operation performed in our own day by the indefatigable Bunsen, who, in 1860, to obtain specimens of two new metals —ctesium and rubidium—whose existence had been previously revealed by spectroscopic examination of an alkaline residue obtained from the Durckheim mineral water, set to work to evaporate so large a quantity as forty-four tuns of this water, and in the end obtained only 200 grains of the chlorides of the new metals.
After Van Helmont, as we said above, alchemy ceased to be specially cultivated. A final attempt, however, to save their favorite art was made by a society of alchemists who went by the name of Rosicrucians, whose visionary projects the recent advances in chemical science had, it seems, in nowise discouraged. The society was but shortlived. By pretending to too much, it soon fell into discredit and disappeared after a short existence of twenty-five years. Even after this there occasionally appeared those who wished to revive.old alchemistic notions, but they were little heeded. The last person of any note who pretended to the secret of transmutation was Dr. Price of Guildford, who, in order, it is supposed, to avoid being detected as an impostor, committed suicide (A. D. 1782.)
After this necessarily brief sketch of some of the leading alchemists, and the theories which they followed, we are in a position to take a more correct view of the principal object of their long and patient researches—the transmutation of metals. Were they in good faith, or were they wilful deceivers ? Were they fools, or men of sense and sound judgment? Both classes of men were to be found among them. Many of those who devoted themselves to alchemi-
516
'THE SCHOLASTIC.
cal pursuits were, as we have already seen, men of surpassing genius and untiring industry—but were misled by a priori hypotheses, and theories having no foundation in fact, or founded on facts falsely interpreted. Assuming the theories of Aristotle, Geber, or those of the later alchemists, to be true, the possibility of transmutation followed as a natural consequence. If, according to Aristotle, substances were the result of the combination of two or more fundamental properties, what was'more natural than to conclude that the properties of one body could be transferred to another—that the properties of gold, for intsance, could be transferred to iron or some other of the metals ? Or if, according to the theory which had with many minds the force of doctrine for so many ages, all metals are composed of only two elements—sulphur and mercury—the relative quantity and purity of these constituents determining the nature of the compound, what was more rational than to suppose that these two elements could be obtained in such purity and combined in such proportions as to constitute silver or gold? And further, if, as was generally believed, gold, or at least its elements, existed in a greater or less degree in all bodies, were they not justified in their search for . a substance which would isolate the precious metal, or at least its constituents—a substance to which they gave the fanciful names of “philosopher’s stone,” “powder of projection,” “the daughter of the great secret,” etc.? Certainly, the philosopher’s stone was to the alchemists what any of the so-called “reagents” are now to the modern chemical analyst—a substance by whose action an element or body could be separated from its compounds by processes of decomposition, precipitation, etc., according to the nature of the body operated on. But their theories were false, and as long as they worked in accordance with them they were essaying the impossible.
Having thus sketched the labors and theories of the alchemists, we are now better prepared to answer several questions which have no doubt suggested themselves to your minds ere now. Did any of the alchemists ever succeed in making gold, as many of them pretended to have
done ? Is the transmutation of metals possible; and, if so, will chemists ever be able to make gold by any process of analysis or transmutation of the baser metals?
. As to the first question, it would be unbecoming for me to give a direct negative answer, although it would seem at first sight that one would be warranted in so-doing. But the records of history and the opinions of men whose judgment is entitled to respect forbids us to be precipitate in giving a positive answer. In addition to Arnold of Villanova, Raymond Lully, and many others above mentioned, to whom was attributed the power of transmutation, there are others of a much later date who claimed to possess the “great secret,”—men of honor and integrity, whose declarations are supported by the testimony of many witnesses who would have been the first to expose any attempt at deception. It would be too long to enter into the details of particular instances, but if anyone will take the trouble to examine the evidence in favor of the claims of Arnold of Villanova, Raymond Lully, an alchemist mentioned by Helvetius, Van Helmont, and Sethon, better known as Cosmopolitan, he will be satisfied that as far as history goes the accounts given of these men possess every character of truth.
But although so many testify to the fact that gold was made,—that they had with their own eyes seen it made,— that they had made it themselves,—nevertheless, if we
cannot suspect the honesty or good faith of these persons,-when we read of the divers processes by which transmutation was said to have been effected, and consider the various circumstances of the cases adduced, we are almost forced to conclude that fraud was practiced somewhere, or that the witnesses were deceived themselves or founded their conclusions on insufficient evidence. For instance, the powder which was presented by his unknown visitor to Helvetius, and which was to effect—and which Helvetius himself says did effect—the transmutation of the baser metals into gold, had the color of sulphur. The powder by which Price changed metals into gold was red, whilst that by which he converted them into silver was white. Price said that the process for making the philosopher’s stone was long, troublesome, expensive and dangerous, whilst the stranger mentioned by Helvetius declared that it could be prepared in three days, without, difficulty and with little expense. Then again, the great amount of metal said to have been changed into gold by a very small portion of the powder of projection is enough to try the faith of the most credulous. Helvetius said that with a bit of the philosopher’s stone, which had been presented him by his unknown visitor, no larger than half a rape seed, he had changed half an ounce of lead into most pure gold. Van Helmont states that he converted 9 ounces and 2 drachms of mercury into gold by means of half a grain of the powder of projection which he had received from an adept. Others declared that much larger quantities of metal could be transmuted by the smallest particle of the precious powder.
Again, if these persons really knew the process of making gold, whence comes it that they never made it known, although the greatest rewards and the highest honors were offered them for so-doing? They suffered imprisonment and even death rather than reveal “ the great secret ” which they pretended to possess, and of which they themselves made no use whatever. They lived in the greatest indigence, when they had the means of enjoying at will the treasures of Croesus. The reason for not making known the secrets given by Sethon above mentioned to Sendigovius, that the possession of the stone of transmutation instead of rendering one happy is a constant source of trouble and persecution, might be adduced as a motive for refusing to communicate a secret which most probably he knew nothing about, but not sufficient to evince beyond a doubt that he had the power to which he pretended, and which was attributed to him by his contemporaries.
. These considerations tell strongly against the declarations of history, and would seem to exclude entirely the probability of any of the alchemists having made gold by any process whatever. Bergmann, and many others who have written on the subject, leave the matter undecided. When, however, we consider that thousands of persons were engaged for upwards of a thousand years in the endeavor to make gold, and that they must have adopted thousands of different processes to effect their object,—that they experimented on all substances of what nature soever, probably with many reagents now unknown to us, it would not be surprising if they should found even more powerful means of analysis—the secret of which died with them—than are even now possessed in our present advanced state of chemical science. True, they worked without method, but the fact that they made so many discoveries, which they have been pleased to make known to the world, would, when we take into consideration the

THE SCHOLASTIC.	51?
J
) i
pains they took to keep secret any new discovery they may have chanced to make, and how jealously they guarded from the public everything connected with the “ great work ” in which they were engaged, lead us to suppose that they made many others of which we have no knowledge. If then the making of gold is possible,—a matter we will presently consider,—it would be nothing surprising that that alchemists after their long and persevering endeavors really did succeed in realizing the object of their wishes. But the simplest and perhaps the most correct way of accounting for various instances of transmutation alluded to above, as well as others reported as facts no less undeniable, would be to suppose those who are said to have accomplished this feat and who are represented as honest and incapable of deceiving, were themselves mistaken,—that they obtained gold and silver not by any process of transmutation, as they imagined, but from some of the ores of the precious metals, by methods analagous to those adopted in modem metallurgy. That this could easily have happened, we may justly presume when we recollect that the alchemists were entirely unacquainted with those delicate “ tests ” of qualitative chemical analysis now so extensively employed, and which if they had known, would have enabled them to prove, before commencing their experiments, the existence or non-existence of gold or silver in the bodies which they are reported to have transmuted, when in reality it was only a chance separation of the precious metal from some of its numerous compounds. [to be continued.]
Fugitive Poems.
BY T. A. D.
A few years ago, William A. Wheeler projected and began writing a book under the title of “Who Wrote It?” but dying shortly afterwards, the work died with him, and has never been revised. The author proposed to collect all the more prominent anonymous poetical compositions in our American literature, and to publish them in one large volume. It was his design to give as complete a history as possible of each poem, analyzing the title by which different authors claimed the same composition, and concluding with his own opinion of the merits of the conflicting claims. It is to be regretted that he was not permitted to finish his work; for, owing to the ability of the author, and his spirit of profound research, we feel assured that the volume would prove not only popular and interesting, but also a perfect treasure to the student and the man of letters. It would seem that any man with a taste for literature would find an intensely interesting employment in a study of the anonymous poetry which occupies and constitutes so large a part of our national literature. It is a well-known and very interesting fact that some of the finest poems in our language are the work of unknown hands. There are in literature as well as in society wanderers and waifs who are doomed to roam from place to place, homeless and unknown. They constitute of themselves a rich feast for the imaginative mind. There is necessarily no limit here to the free range of fancy. We can build up the most whimsical ideals concerning the personality of the writer of these fugitive pieces, without the slightest fear of their destruction by the practical real. And yet there is something tenderly sad and touchingly pathetic in the history of those pieces, whose origin is
shrouded in obscurity and which wake such strange echoe8 in the heart, like the melody of unseen, unknown music. “Home, Sweet Home” has an additional interest for us when we learn the history of the author,—J. Howard Payne,—and we feel that it is the overflow of a yearning, unsatisfied heart fof that which it sought but never found. Here are two directly opposite causes conspiring to produce the same emotions; and unaccountable though it is, they are successful.
It is a native impulse in the human heart to associate the author with his work, and to entertain innumerable ideal fancies concerning the circumstances of good or evil which could call forth the beautiful thoughts that we admire; and it is because of this impulse, which is in itself a real pleasure, that the word “anonymous” holds such a strange fascination for us. Many of these fugitive pieces are supposed to date back several centuries, and through some accident to have been restored to public favor, just as words that have long been obsolete are revived from time to time. Discussion concerning the origin of such poems can never be of any service; they were, perhaps, written by some mono-poet, some all but “ mute, inglorious Milton,” who poured his whole soul into that one effort and then was silent forever. The poetic mood (if I may use the term) is something incomprehensible in itself, and by no means exact and consistent in its operations. Nearly all the great poets assure us that it is a kind of inspiration that may not be wooed at pleasure, but departs and returns at uncertain intervals—and while it is gone they are silent. May we not presume these poems to be the product of a brief inspiration that departed to return no more ? Numbers of those beautiful little poems first graced a corner of some village newspaper and were there accidentally discovered by some more pretentious journal,—and, admired for their grace and sweetness, they were republished without the author’s name, and thus became the property of the world. Passing thus from paper to paper, all traces of their origin was finally lost. Who does not remember that tragic little poem entitled “ Curfew Shall not Ring To-night ? ” Who that has heard it recited by Burnett, or Mrs. Siddons, can ever forget it ? And yet the author, although a highly accomplished young lady, and a most gifted scholar, has written nothing else to compare with it. Indeed, for a long time the world knew not to whom it should be accredited. It floated through the papers for years, unobtrusive and unclaimed, sustained by its own buoyancy, the admiration and praise of the critics. The writer of this sketch remembers distinctly its first publication in a village paper in Southern Michigan, and knew at the time, and the world has since learned, that this inimitable poem was from the pen of Miss Rosa Hartwick.
But poems'of this kind are not often thus returned to the true owner. We all remember that intensely bitter and unprincipled struggle for the authorship of that tenderly pathetic life-like song, or poem, entitled “Rock Me to Sleep.” The poem itself is one of rare melody, and of its kind it stands alone, unrivalled in the literature of the English language. It is no matter of surprise that unprincipled writers of verses should claim such a treasure—it is sufficient to ensure the reputation of any author; but the world has rejected their unsupported claims, one after another, and at the present time the author’s name is unknown The equally well known “Lines on a Skeleton” excited much curiosity when they were first published from a slip of paper picked up (the Editor claimed) on the floor of the
518	THE SCHOLASTIC.
British. Museum. A reward was offered to ascertain the author’s name, but, strange to say, no one ever claimed it.
Beautiful Snow ” can never thus lament a dearth of claimants. The dispute has been going on for years, and we presume will never be satisfactorily settled. It is claimed both in Europe and America, and there are at the present time at least three authors of no mean reputation who boldly claim and publish the poem as their own. Another poetic gem of exquisite delicacy which perhaps never attained the world-wide reputation of the foregoing, but which is nevertheless well known to every true student of American poetry, is entitled “Nothing but Leaves.” The title is taken from Matt, xxi, v. 19: “And seeing a fig tree by the wayside, He came to it; and found nothing on it but leaves only,” etc.
“ Nothing but leaves; the spirit grieves
Over a wasted life;
Sin committed while conscience slept, Promises made but never kept, Hatred, battle, and strife;
Nothing hut leaves! ”
All efforts to ascertain the authorship of this poem, of which the above forms one stanza, have been unrewarded.
A few years ago R. H. Stoddard published a volume of lyrics and included in it a poem which he named “ One more Unfortunate.” The poem vividly portrays the pathetic wail of a despairing heart, but unfortunately for Mr. Stoddard his title to the poem has been severely criticised t>y the press, and, we think, with sufficient reason. No one in particular claims the merit of this composition, but it seems pretty well settled that Stoddard never wrote it. ' But an attempt to mention the names even of all the beautiful little wandering sketches that have taken the fancy captive and tuned the heart to melody by their sweetness, would extend the present sketch to a large volume. There are thousands of them, and their number is increasing every year. But the lustre of such little gems as the “ Sonnet to the Passion Flower,” “ A Beautiful Day in Spring,” “ If this Fair Rose Offend thy Sight,” and a great number of others we might name, will never grow dim wherever the English language finds a representative. In conclusion, we wish that some one would take up the task the lamented Wheeler projectedt and rescue from their wanderings those sweet vagrant melodies.
’Twas the wind that bore them earthward till they lit; Then, like the arrow-seeds of the field flower, the fruitful wit, Cleaving, took root, and springing forth anew where’er they ■ fell, behold,
Like to the mother plant in semblance, grew a flower all gold.’
American' Artists. -
Washington Allston.—(Concluded.)
In 1804 Mr. Allston visited Paris, in company with another American painter, afterwards celebrated, John Vanderlyn. The Louvre then contained a great number of the chief treasures of art from all parts of the Continent, which gave him an opportunity to examine and compare the masterpieces of different schools. A few months were intently occupied with the study of this unrivalled collection of pictures, when he repaired to Italy, where he passed four years in the assiduous cultivation of his art. At Rome, where most of the four years was spent, he became the intimate companion of the sculptor, Thorwaldsen, and of the English philosopher and poet, Coleridge. The latter
fondly remembered, to the last, his intellectual obligations to his American friend. Mr. Allston came home in 1809, and after his marriage to Miss Channing, of Boston, he returned to London. There he finished, and exhibited, “ The Dead Man Revived,” a theme from the Old Testament history, which instantly obtained the prize from the British institution, of 200 guineas, and was soon purchased by the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts. His next important work was “ St. Peter Liberated by the Angel,” ordered by Sir George Beaumont, and now in the church of Ashley de la Zouch. This was followed by “ Uriel in the Sun,” now belonging to the Duke of Sutherland, and for which the British institution awarded him a gratuity of 150 guineas; and by “Jacob’s Dream,” now in the collection of Lord Egremont, at Petworth. The intervals between these great achievements were occupied with smaller but not less characteristic pictures, all of which found eager and liberal purchasers.	'
But unremitting toil, acquiescence in the English custom of late dinner, which compelled many consecutive hours of work and fasting, together with a period of deep affliction on account of the death of his wife, combined to undermine the delicate constitution of this great artist at the very period of his most genial activity and most eminent success. He returned home in 1818, in feeble health and with but one finished picture—“Elijah in the Wilderness,” purchased' and afterwards taken to England by the Hon. Mr. Labouchere.
During the twelve succeeding years, Mr. Allston reside! in Boston. Among the productions of his pencil at this' period, interrupted as they were by ill health, the most celebrated are “The Prophet Jeremiah,” now belonging to Miss Gibbs, of Newport; “ Saul and the Witch of Endor,” purchased by the late Col. T. H. Perkins, of Boston; and “ Miriam singing the Song of Triumph,” owned by Hon. David Sears of the same city. Of minor works, the most memorable are “Dante’s Beatrice,” and “The Valentine;” the former belonging to Hon. S. A. Elliot, and the latter to George Ticknor, Esq., of Boston; while “ Florimel,” owned by Mrs. Baldwin, and “Jessica,” by Hon. Mr. Hooker, of Boston, with others of an exquisite charm as to conception and coloring, will never be forgotten if once seen. '
In 1830 Mr. Allston married a daughter of the late Chief Justice Dana, of Cambridge, Mass. There he fixed his studio, and thenceforth led a life of great seclusion, enjoying the society of a few intimate friends and kindred, always receiving with cordiality visitors of his own profession, and enlightened lovers of art; among whom was Mrs. Jameson, of happy fame. At this time many of his best though less extensive pictures were executed, such as “ Spalatro’s Vision of the Bloody Hand,” for Mr. Ball of South Carolina, and the beautiful “Rosalie,” belonging to Honorable Nathan Appleton of Boston. In 1836, Congress invited him to fill one of the panels in the rotunda of the Capitol, with an historical picture, but his mind was fully engrossed by' a subject conceived and even commenced while in London, and he declined the national commission. This work • of art, so long promised, so eagerly expected by his friends on both sides of the Atlantic, was “ Belshazzar’s Feast.” Had Mr. Allston remained in Europe under auspicious circumstances, we might now see this picture, so grand in its completeness, taking its true rank among the creations of genius. As it was, the want of a proper studio in Boston caused it to be laid
THE SCHOLASTIC
519
aside; and although resumed at Cambridge, various circumstances were unpropitious; among others, pecuniary embarrassments, which led at one time to the confiscation of unfinished works; then the necessity for more lucrative employment; discouragement from the want of adequate models, with frequent indisposition; and the frequent despondency arising from all these misfortunes combined to prevent what would have been a triumph for American art. This noble pictorial fragment is the delight of all artists, and is now the property of the Boston Athenaeum. His original view of the subject and his own design was given in a letter to his friend Washington Irving, and dated London, May 9,1817. Nearly forty years after this letter was written he was advancing on his long neglected work; and although no longer physically vigorous, he was as strong in intellect and as elevated in sentiment as in his youthful prime. Yet just at this time the hand of genius was arrested, and his eloquent tongue forever stilled. About midnight, on a Saturday, after a week of steady labor on “ Belshazzar’s Feast,” having passed the evening - with his family in serious but pleasant conversation, he suddenly but quietly expired, from a renewed attack of disease of the heart, to which he had been for some time liable. He was in the 64th year of his age.
The literary claims of Mr. Allston have been absorbed by his artistic fame. Few of his writings have been published, yet they prove him capable of works of the pen no less effective than those he achieved with the pencil. Indeed it was only to beguile a leisure hour, to gratify the . demands of friendship, or to give play to his own fancy, - that he wrote. But in several instances, the writings and paintings of Mr. Allston exquisitely illustrate each other ; and the precious picture of “ Rosalie,” of which it has been said that music “born of murmuring sound had passed into her face,” has found a voice in Rosalie, the poem.
No painter was more scrupulously true to the high aims of his profession. On one occasion he was crippled in resources in London, but had sold a picture for a considerable sum. As he sat alone at evening, the idea occurred to him . that the subject, to a perverted taste or corrupt imagination ■ might have an immoral effect; and he instantly returned the money, regained and destroyed the picture. Among his brother artists, he was a magnanimous critic and a disinterested friend. He called himself “a wide liker,” and one of his maxims, found in writing after his death, was : “Dwell, first, on what can be praised; afterwards you may be obliged to blame.” For the humblest he had a cheering word or an invaluable counsel; and the number who date their improvement or aspirations from an interview with Mr. Allston, vindicate his claim to be regarded literally, ' as they affectionately called him, “the Master,” in all the old, genuine and personal significance of the title. Many a youthful votary of sculpture and painting can echo the words of Horatio Greenough, in speaking of Allston: “ He was a father to me in what concerned my progress of every kind.” The only person to whom he ever gave lessons consecutively was Miss Sarah Clarke, of Boston, sister to William H. Clarke, Esq., of Chicago. Miss Clarke has made good use of this inestimable privilege, and we shall hope to extend these sketches until we can embrace the name of this true artist on our list.
. There is a bust of Mr. Allston, in the Boston Athenaeum, which gives his spiritual head under the changes wrought ‘ by care and sickness, even more than by time. For our
selves, we prefer to recall, always, the portrait-painter by himself. He was a person of a tall, lithe figure, full, expressive eye, broad and emphatic brow, with, in his latter years, long hair of silvery whiteness. His very aspect revealed his genius and allied him at once to his own ideal creations.	.	* * *
Good Manners.
There is scarcely anything by which society judges men. so quickly as by their manners, and for this reason we should endeavor to cultivate them.
There is no place where good breeding is shown so fully as at table. If you do not know how to behave at table you are immediately set down as a person who has never been in good society. This behavior at table consists in knowing how to hold your knife and fork, in knowing when to use your knife and when your spoon, in your conversation, in eating moderately, and in many other little things which seem but trifles in themselves, but when put together and strictly adhered to make the gentleman.
Parents wish their children to be polite and well-behaved, but does the parent always set the child a good example? I once knew a man who, whenever he wanted his children to do anything, would speak roughly to them; and they, naturally enough, copied after their father, and soon became so uncouth in their manners that nobody would associate with them, and the father would wonder why it was that his children were not better liked; but never for a moment did he think that he was the cause. Hence we see how the truth of the maxim, that “politeness begins at home ” applies to each of us. Nowhere have we. a better opportunity of cultivating our good manners than at college. Here we meet with so many persons of different dispositions, that we are obliged to stop and think how we may act in order to please them; and by so doing we not only gain friends here, but we cultivate our manners, so that when we appear in society we shall not be shunned by everybody, but on the contrary people will court our acquaintance on account of our politeness and good manners.	J. F. R.
Literature.
—The late Odilon Barrot’s memoirs are announced for early publication.
—Mr. W. S. Gilbert, the author of “Shirley Hall Asylum,” etc., has in hand a treatise on the disestablishment of the Church of England.
—Messrs. Low & Co., of London, will shortly publish a translation of a work on the history and practice of photography by M. Gaston Tissandier.
—The Rev. H. W. Pullen, the author of “The Fight in Dame Europa’s School,” has been appointed chaplain to the “Discovery,” on the Artic Expedition.
—A committee, at the head of which is Mr. D’lsraeli, has been formed for the purpose of erecting by subscription a monument over the grave of Lord Byron.
—Dr. Hately Waddell has nearly ready a work to be entitled “ Ossian and the Clyde,” in which an attempt is made to trace Ossianic influences in Ireland, Iceland and the Orkney Isles.
—Prof. Brugset, it is stated, has discovered in the library of a monastery near Sinai, certain hitherto unknown portions of the “ Codex Sinaiticus,” the oldest extant MS. of the Old Testament.
—The Academy states that the Comte de Paris has nearly completed the fourth volume of his “ Histoire de la Guerre Civile des Etats-Unis.” It is, in the author’s opinion, the most important portion of his work, dealing as it does with the turning-point of the war—the events that immediately followed Sherman’s famous march. The volume will be published in the autumn. It has been stated that a translation of the Comte de Paris’s work was about to be issued by a London firm. Negotiations were, it is true, entered into with a view to such an arrangement, but at the eleventh hour the French author announced that he ,would rather his history should be translated and pub-‘ lished by Americans.
520
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Th® Suhixlastic*
Published evsry Week during Term Time at NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
All communications should be sent to Editor Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana.
TEKMS:
On»year......................................$1 00
Single copies (5 cts.) can be obtained at the Students’ Office.
The Scholastic for the 2nd Session.
The subscription price of the Scholastic for the 2nd session of 6 months is fifty cents ; besides which all new subscribers are requested to send ten cents for postage, making in all sixty cents.
Address: Editor of the Scholastic, Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
—So far, there hae been only one Catholic college paper which has given its views in regard to the proposed convention of Catholic Educators for the purpose of discussing all matters connected with Education. The paper referred to is the College Message, published at St. Vincent’s College, Cape Girardeau, Mo. We reprinted the entire article on the subject from the Message, and consequently our readers are aware of the feeling of our friends at “ the Cape.” They are strongly in favor of the convention, but prefer having it held during the term time of our colleges, and not in vacation. We rather like their amendment; but to have the convention this year (if it be held at all) in the month of May or June, would be impossible, so that if it be held this year during term time, it could not well assemble before next September or October.
We would like to hear what are the opinions of the other papers on the matter. By a very awkward mistake in our mailing room the number of the Scholastic asking the views of the college press (as was the case with other numbers of our paper), was not mailed to the Niagara Index, for which reason we could not expectit to give us its opinion. However, we would now ask them what they think of it; and if they are in favor of it, that they would urge the matter in their columns.
The Salesianum notices the proposal, but does not commit itself in the matter, though we believe it is favorable. The remainder of the college press is silent, and we do not know what they believe in regard to the proposed affair. We would like to know how they feel about it, and whether the college which they represent would send a delegate in case a call were formally made by a number of persons connected with educational establishments.
We believe that many Catholic Educators throughout the country desire, and have desired for man years, to have just such a convention assemble as we have proposed; but all have refrained from taking any steps which would lead to its assembling, simply because they knew not how others would regard the matter, and were in dread of failure. We have brought the matter before the Catholic college press, and ask their views in regard to it. There may be objections to it, and if such is the case we would like to hear them. If there are no objections to it—if it would be a service to Catholic Education, then we would like to see it advocated by this press until the convention assembles.
Besides the college press, we believe that it is an affair which should receive some attention at the hands of the Catholic press throughout the country; and we hope that they will take the matter in hand, and if on examination
they find that it would be of service to Catholic Education, that they will agitate it until it does come to pass.
A number of years ago, Mr. McMaster, in the Freeman’c Journal, brought this matter before the public. Nothing was done because, although there were many who favored it. what is the business of many is the business of none. Every one of them refrained from making the call because he was waiting for some one else to do so. We hope that a number of papers will take the matter in hand, and urge it until it takes some good shape, and there will be no danger of its falling through. The Catholic press can do what we would like to do but cannot, viz., call upon those connected with houses to give them by letter their opinions on the subject. Which one of the Catholic papers will do it? '
Art Notes. -
—Mr. H. W. Plckersgill, R. A., died on the 22nd of April, in London, aged 93.
—Gustave Dore is to receive £10,000 for illustrating a pictorial edition of Shakespeare.
—A statue of Campbell the poet and one of Livingstone the traveller are to be placed in George-square Glasgow.	•
—Mr. F. J. Williamson has a commission to execute in marble, life-sized statues of some of the members of the royal family of England.
—At a recent sale in Paris of pictures by the deceased Spanish artist Fortuny, Mr. A. T. Stewart gave 49,800 francs for a picture of the beach at Portici, and 24,000 francs for one of the lower court-yard of the Alhambra.
—Those artists in France whose pictures have been rejected for the Exhibition are again to have an exhibition of their own, and the world will have an opportunity to learn whether committees always do reject the best pictures.
—The Italian newspapers announce the discovery the other day at Pompeii of a painting said to be of more importance than any hitherto brought to light. It represents Laoeoon according to the description given by Virgil. Its state of preservation is such as to warrant a hope that it may be found possible to remove it to the Museum.
—It is proposed to issue a portfolio of photographs of the principal paintings exhibited at the Royal Academy, London, this year, if the consent of the artists can be obtained. Such a thing has never been attempted before, as it would be likely to injure the value of a picture foren-graving, the right to engrave being frequently sold for a higher price than that given for the picture itself.
—Miss Thompson, the English artist, is rapidly winning her way to fame. She has just completed a picture which is receiving high encomiums from art critics. It ia called the “Twenty-Eighth Regiment at Quartre-Bras.” This regiment formed, together with the Royals, into a square in a field of “particularly tall rye,” and was repeatedly assaulted by the French Cuirassiers and Lancers, who closed a long series of unsuccessful attacks by a furious charge simultaneously delivered against three faces of the square, where it was mainly composed of men of the Twenty-Eighth. The picture represents this last effort of the enemy at about five p. m., and is said to be remarkable for the variety of character delineated in the faces of the men forming the excellent grouping of so many figures within so small a space.
—A curious historical relic was recently exhibited at the Lotus Club, New York. It was a miniature portrait of General George Washington, accompanied with a portrait of Martha Washington, eachpainted on ivory and encased in a medallion solid gold frame. The pictures have for nearly a hundred years been in the possession of the Washington family. The portrait of General Washington was painted in the Federal camp, during the siege of Boston, by Charles Wilson Peal, afid presented to the General.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
521
Some years later the portrait of Martha Washington was painted, and the two pictures were inclosed in their present case, with the hair of General Washington and his wife. The expression of Washington’s face gives a different impression from that conveyed by Stuart’s famous portrait—a softer and more gentle expression. But it was taken earlier in Washington's life than Stuart’s picture. •“-The Arcadian.
—The Paris correspondent of the Arcadian says: “There has been a great sale of pictures this week—pictures by Corot, Delacroix, Fromentin, Millet and Rousseau. The Collection comprised over sixty-eight works, and brought in §93,000. A “Ste. Sabastian,” by Delacroix, brought 8,580f.; and a “ Christ on the Lake Genezareth ” 3,500f.; Corot’s “ Orphans ” brought 2,420£; his “ Sleep of Diana,” 2,100f.; and his “Spring,” l,440£; Millet’s “Death and the Wood-cutter,” 4,000f. ,• two of Rousseau’s, “ Sunset ” and “Sunrise,” 5,620f. The highest price paid for one picture was for Roybet’s, “The Page,” 6,020f. Cham has ably caricatured the increase in the price paid for the pictures of deceased painters. “ Oh! if you only knew,’’ says the artist to the purchaser, “ what a terrible cough I have, you would pay me at least twice the sum you offer. My work is worth it. I think in a week or so I shall be go-o-o-ne.’’
Musical Notes.	.
—Mrs. Seguin has rejoined the Kellogg troupe.
—Christine Nilsson has met with extraordinary success in Brussels.
—Herr de Suert, a violoncellist of great skill, has made his debut in London.
—A negro violinist, Brindis de Salas, a native of Cuba, has been playing at the Teatro Regio, Turin.
—Mlle. Varesi, daughter of the once famous baritone, made her debut in “Rigoletto” in London lately.
—M. Rubenstein has been elected by the French Academy of the Fine Arts correspondent of the section of music.
—There seems to be a probability that Tletgens and other lights of Mr. Mapleson’s troupe will go to New York next Fall.
—Mr. F. H. Cowan is commissioned-to compose an oratorio for the Brighton (England) Festival next year. The work is to be entitled “ The Deluge.”
I-" —The late Sir Sterndale Bennett’s library has been sold at auction. The collection included a quantity of interesting musical manuscripts and autographs.
—Wagner has written a letter to a Boston lady wherein he expresses great pleasure over the appreciation of his works as rendered by Theodore Thomas’ Orchestra.
—Verdi gave a performance of his Mass in Paris, with the quartette he is to take with him to London, viz.: Mmes. Stolz, Waldmann, Senor Masini and Senor Medini.
—The Folio for June comes to us filled with any amount of gossip, concerning musicians and music. With each number of the Folio comes a portrait of some distinguished man. It is published by White, Smith & Co., No. 516 Washington St., Boston Mass. Price §1.60 per annum.
—Messrs. Noyes, Holmes & Co., Boston, will shortly issue a volume entitled “ Piano and Song, How to Teach, How to Learn and How to form a Judgment of Musicla Performances.” It is a translation by an American lady, from the German of Friedrich Wieck, who was the teacher of Robert and Clara Schumann. Clara Schumann was a daughter of Wieck.
—We are expecting a letter from Cincinnati describing the great May Musical Festival. In the mean time all that we will say is, that from all accounts it was a great success. The singing is described as grand, and the orchestra as almost faultless. Financially, it was as successful as the most sanguine could expect. But we prefer to wait for our regular letter.
—Mr. L. Dachauer writes to Watson's Art Journal complaining that in the May Festival at Cincinnati there was no evening concert or Matinee given to music by American
composers. He asks that at the Centennial certain days be given to the rendition of American composers, and that the managers of the Exhibition call to their aid a committee of known musical men. His article is worthy the serious thought of those who have charge of the Centennial.
—George F. Bristow, L. Dachauer, A. J. Goodrich, A. H. Pease, S. B. Mills, J. Jay Watson, Geo. W. Morgan, Ernst Eberhard, A. T. Toulmin, and many other eminent musicians of New York, have united in signing a memorial in behalf of the music at the Centennial, asking from the managers such action with regard to the proper representation of the Art of Music in its scientific, practical and aesthetic provinces, as may be in conformity with the nature of the Exhibition.
—In Brainard?s Musical World for May we find as usual a variety of interesting and useful articles on Music, with the exception of “A Tale,” which contains some low and vulgar witticisms, a la Harper, at the expense of that noble class of men, the Irish priests. A very able editorial on “Who should Teach Music in our Public Schools?” deserves the attention of young teachers. It is pretty well understood that in educational matters we are gradually drifting towards European customs, where every teacher is required to take instruction in singing, piano, organ and violin-playing and thorough bass; hence all our teachers should be obliged to make a thorough course of music before entering upon their life as educators, in order that they may be able to give their pupils lessons in vocal music.
Scientific Notes.
—The death of Mr. Seguin, sen., correspondent in the section of mechanics in the Academy of Sciences of Paris, took place at Annonay, on the 24th of February, in the forty-ninth year of his age.
—Professor Richard A. Proctor remembers his visit to America as “among the pleasantest events of his life.” He proposes to try it again, and is expected to lecture in this country next season on the transits of Venus.
—Among the States in which geological surveys are in progress, Alabama is to be enumerated, and a report of operations has recently been made by Dr. Smyth, State geologist. This is occupied principally with the results of analyses of certain limestones, one of which, from Shelby County, is stated to contain over ninty-four per cent, of pure carbonate of lime.
—Of the fortune of §150,000 left by the late Sir Charles Lyell, $10,000 goes to the London Geological Society, the annual interest of which is to be applied to the encouragement of geology or allied sciences. The money, it is provided, is to be appropriated partly for travelling expenses, or for memoirs or papers, and without reference to the sex or nationality of the author.
—An account has just been published of an exploration of the great oasis of Western Egypt by the Grand Duke of Oldenburg, accompanied by Professor Brugsch-Bey, Dr. Liittage, and others. His party was attended by forty camels, and was occupied in a march of four days and a half over the Libyan Desert to the main station, El Khargeh. Here a careful examination was made of .the ruins belonging to the times of the Pharaohs and the later periods of Roman occupation.
—As already mentioned by us, the oldest member of the Academy of Sciences of France died lately in the person of M. Mathieu, this occurring on the 5th of March, in the ninty-third year of his age. His principal publication was his History of Astronomy in the Eighteenth Century; but his scientific and literary work had reference mainly to the Annual of the Bureau des Longitudes, of which he was the editor for many years. He also for a considerable time had charge of the Connaissance des Temps.
—Professor E. Bandelot, a well-known French physiologist and naturalist, died on the 23d of February, at the age of forty, and his death is dwelt upon by the French journals as a very serious loss to science. His principal labors had reference to certain points in the anatomy and physiology of fishes, such as ventral disks, the distribu
522	THE SCHOLASTIC.
tion of the nerves, the structure of the brain, the sucking disk of the remora, etc., although he also published several papers in relation to the anatomy and physiology of mollusks and radiates.
—Professor Schmick has called attention to the fact that iis theory of the existence of regular periodical changes of ■ the level of the sea, and especially of a secular movement from the northern to the southern hemisphere, is apparently supported by the conclusion of the astronomer Nyren. The latter has shown that the latitudes of all ' well-determined observatories in the northern hemisphere have slightly diminished since accurate observations began. This phenomena is, according to Schmick, easily explained by the hypothesis that water of the Southern Ocean is now about perhaps two feet deeper than it was a hundred years ago, which hypothesis accords precisely with the conclusion to which he was-led by the entirely different course of reasoning published by him some years ago in his works on floods, etc.
—An eminent Swedish naturalist has passed away in the person of Professor Carl J. Sundevall, in the seventyfifth year of his age. Born in 1801, he was a graduate of the university of Lund, and in 1824 made an exploration of the fauna of the islands of Gottland and Oland. In 1827 he visited the East Indies, and in 1838 accompanied the French scientific expedition to Spitzbergen under Gaimard, on his return crossing the mountains from Hammerfest to the Gulf of Tornea. In 1839 he became curator • of the National Museum at Stockholm, and devoted himself to the investigation of the natural history of his country, and published works upon fishes, birds, mammals, etc. Professor Sundevall is well known among ornithologists as the author of numerous important papers and ' monographs, and contributed in no mean degree to the • establishment of the modern principles of scientific arrangement and classification of birds.
—It is a curious fact that the little island of Amsterdam, ' in the South Indian Ocean, is known to be covered with ■ trees, while that of St. Pauls, only fifty miles to the south, is destitute of a shrub. Botanists have long been anxious to determine the character of the Amsterdam forest, but • the difficulty of effecting a landing on the island has generally prevented the collection of specimens. In the last part of the Journal of the Linnaan Society Dr. Hooker announces that at length he has received the desired specimens, these having been collected by Commodore Goodenough, who states that they represent the only species of tree growing on the island. Dr. Hooker identifies this with the Phylica arbor eaot Thouars, a tree which, strangely . enough, is found in the remote island of Tristan d’Acunha. It is a problem for those who study insular floras to suggest how the same plant can have established itself on these two little specks of land separated from each other by about five thousand miles of ocean.
Personal.
—Ed. O’Brien, of ’68, is in the Globe Office, St. Louis.
—Rev. Father Delahanty is, we are pleased to see, back again.
'—Arthur Murphy, of ’68, is clerking in the new Lindell House, St. Louis.
Mrs. Dan’l O’Hara, of Chicago, spent a few days at Notre Dame last week.
—Henry P. Beakey, of’69, is in a wholesale hardware establishment in St. Louis.
—Rev. Father Paul Gillen arrived here on the 19th. He looks hale and hearty.
—Capt. Ben Morris, of the Minim Brigade, made a call at the “ den” on Wednesday last.
—Rev. Fathers Demers, Letourneau, and Jacob Lauth, pay occasional visits to the College.
—“Billy” McKernan is in the live-stock business in Indianapolis, doing a rushing business.
—Many of the members of the Thespians of former times ' are expected here on Commencement Day. -
—Jerry Spillard, of’72, and his bride, spent last Sunday at the College. We wish him and his bride all the happiness in the world.
—On Tuesday last we had the pleasure of a visit from Mr. Crockett, one of the editors and proprietors of the South Bend Daily Tribune. Mr. Crockett is always welcome at Notre Dame.
—Married.—In Niles, Mich., at the residence of the Bride’s father, on the 18th inst. by the Revs. Dr. Eddy and J. Hunington, Mr. Wm. H. Potter to Miss Ella McKay, daughter of Mr. A. McKay, Proprietor of the Bond House. The Scholastic staff were favored with a share of the wedding cake, for which they return thanks, wishing the happy couple a long and happy life.
—R. O. M., writing from Jerseyville, His., says:—“ Thinking items from Jerseyville would be acceptable, I send you a few boiled down. Mr. Francis Shephard has returned home to Jerseyville, Ill., from St. Louis, where he has been studying law. He intends coming back to his Alma Mater in June. Harry Shephard sends his best wishes to his old associates. Hon. Wm. Shephard is putting a new addition to his residence, which beautifies its appearance. Mr. Shephard’s health is better than it had been this last winter.”
. Local Items.
—Photographs.
—“How’s that?”.
—Run—run—run.
—How are the T. M. G’s. ?
—Boating is always in order.
—The St. Cecilians are lively.
—Rehearsals will soon commence.
—The fruit trees are all blossoming.
—A. champion game last Wednesday.
—Spring-fever quite bad last Monday.
—There is plenty of work on the farm.
—“ Cucumbers ” is the slang phrase now.
—Visitors arrive at the College every day.
—Boys had better look sharp for the 29th.
—Bulletins as usual for the month of May.
—The new steam-house will be a big affair.
—Men are at work cleaning up everywhere.
—Work on the Catalogue is advancing rapidly.
—In a short while swimming will be all the go.
—Quite a large number of visitors here Sunday.
—Bro. Bonaventure has his garden in fine trim.
—Photographs of all sizes for sale by Mr. Bonney.
—The Societies do not thrive in the month of May.
—The porch back of the Infirmary is nearly finished.
—The telegraph wires will be put up in a short time.
—Mr. Oliver will take charge of the Botanical Garden.
—Tailors, bootmakers, and all, have their hands full of work.
—Charlie Bushey is the champion Minim baseball player.
—A local! a local! “ Silver threads on" the cymbals” for a local!
—The Historians vs. the Book-Keepers to-morrow morning.
—The workmen are busy in the vineyards, trimming the vines.
—We hear rumors that the lakes are to be stocked with white-fish.
—“ Vildeck” will be given by the Thespians at the end of the year.
—In one year from this not a vestige of the old Church will remain.
—Walking is much enjoyed these pleasant afternoons and mornings.
THE SCHOLASTIC.
523
r
—Everybody is preparing to pass an A No. 1 examination in June. .
, —The Excelsiors beat the Atlantics on the 16th, by a score of 15 to 7.	-
—Prof. Paul looks splendid}^. Michigan climate must agree with him.	f ’	•
—The characters in the play of “ Vildeck ” were given out on Monday last.
—The Philopatrians went through on the Lightning Express the other week.
—Bro. Alban has our thanks for a fine string of fish which he caught on the 20th.
—The trees are all putting forth their leaves, and spring has come in good earnest.
• —Three little Italians played for the Students one afternoon during the past week.
—We will have plenty of room for advertising in the two last numbers of the Scholastic.
—The Excelsiors just walked away with the Star of the East on last Wednesday afternoon.
' —We understand that the Cecilians are going to give an Entertainment about the 10th of June. -
: —They have begun putting up the stained glass windows in the new Church. They are very fine.
—Don’t bet the pie on baseball until about the latter part of the 9 th inning; otherwise you may lose it.
—Arrangements have been made with Mr. Crockett of the South, Bend Tribune for binding the Catalogue.
Bro. Robert is fixing his garden up in grand style. A nice fence was made by him around it last Monday.
—Quite a number of persons from Notre Dame attended the lecture of Rev. Father O’Mahony on Sunday last.
—Our friend John had a good joke played on him last Sunday morning. Were it not for “ J ” we would tell it.
—There is very little sickness here now. Who would be sick in such fine weather as has now begun to greet us ?
—The walks from the Scholasticate around the lake past the Novitiate and to the Botanical Garden are very fine.	.
—It is expected that Mgr. Roncetti, Padre Ubaldi and Count Marefoschi wifi, visit Notre Dame some time in June.
—There is great activity manifested in all the classes. Hard work is the order of the day with both teachers and pupils.
—At High Mass on last Sunday the Church was so crowded that it was hard to find standing-room in the back-part.
—The pupils of the High School, Elkhart, were at Notre Dame on Saturday last. They evidently were having a good time.	'
—The Band serenaded Prof. Schnurrer last Sunday evening, also “the future Governor of Ulinois,” so Prof. Lyons says.
—Yesterday Bros. Alban and Marcellinus caught a magnificent string of rock bass. One of the fish weighed -just five pounds.
—There was a meeting of the resident Alumni on the 16th to make preparations for the annual reunion on Commencement Day.
—A large number of the Alumni are expected to attend the reunion this year; the largest number perhaps that have ever attended.
—Prof. Lyons returns his thanks to Rev. F. Shortis, of St. Laurent’s College, Montreal, Canada, for favors shown to the Thespian Society.
—B. Francis has removed his store to the Franciscan House, where he will attend to the wants of all desiring pictures, photographs, etc.
—There will be two ordinations here on the 4th of June next. Two young gentlemen will be ordained priests and five will receive Minor Orders.
—Our South Bend friends will please recollect that B.
Francis has removed his office to the Franciscan House, just east of the Students’ office.
—Trees are being planted in many places this year, and in the course of time they will make a great improvement to the premises about the College.
—The Band had a grand time at Chearheart’s on Thursday last. A good dinner was set out for them, and the afternoon was spent in fun and frolic.
—On account of next Thursday being a holyday, the regular meeting of the Faculty will take^place next Tuesday afternoon, immediately after dinner.
—The Minims return their thanks to Very Rev. Father Sorin for the box of sweetmeats which he presented to them on Tuesday evening, May 18th.
—The new organ arrived last Tuesday, and the builders have begun work putting it up. In a short time it will be up, and then can’t we have a concert?
—Some fellow has sent us a song called “If you love me, lend me 10 cents.” Now that’s a pretty demand to make of an editor. No sir; pay up your subscription.
—Bro. Simon has greatly beautified the north shore of the lower lake. A fine walk has been made, and the lower lake bids fair in a few years to rival in beauty the upper one.	■
—We glanced over the duty books of B. Paul’s English Class the other day and were delighted to see the neat, cleanly and orderly manner in which they are kept by the Students.
—Our friend John was taking lessons on the flute, but the teacher “bounced him” because he “hadn’t lips for the flute,” whereupon he gravely inquired whether he had lips for the bass drum.
—B. Francis will be on hand at the Franciscans’ House every Wednesday from 9 o’clock to % past 11, a. m., and % past 12 to past 1. All persons desiring pictures, religious articles^ etc., will know when to call.
—There are now over one thousand copies of the Scholastic printed. Next year we wish to strike off at the very least two thousand copies. All students procuring us five subscribers during vacation will receive the Scholastic free for one year.
—Mr. L. Mayr, of South Bend, is prepared to make medals for societies at moderate prices. Societies wishing medals for their badges at Commencement Day would do well to give him a call. He has on hand an elegant collection of jewelry, watches, etc.
—There will be a great number of the old students here at the end of the year. The Thespians intend giving the old boys who formerly trod the boards a good reception. We hear also that the other Societies are considering whether they ought not to welcome their old members.
—We understand that a room will be given to the Thespians on Commencement Day, to be used as their headquarters, where the old members will be well entertained during their visit at the end of the year. The Thespians of the days of yore may depend on being well received when they come.
—The first game for the Championship was won by the Star of the East Club; the second game was won by the Excelsiors. These two clubs will play the third game next Wednesday on the Juuanitas’ grounds. The victorious club will then play a series of games with the Juanitas. May the best club win.
—Bros. Charles and Alfred keep things busy about the Church. Carpenters and painters and plasterers and glaziers are all working their level best. It is expected that it will be consecrated the coming summer. We were told that the 15th of August was the day, but we know not how true our information is.
—Work is about to be commenced on the new steam house. According to the plans which we have seen, it will be an ornament to the grounds in the rear of the University. The exact dimensions we have not yet learned, but it may be said with some certainty that it will cover fifty feet square. The “ stack ” will be 120 feet high.
—As far as we can learn, the following are the “ colors ” worn by the members of the different Societies on Society
524
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Day, viz.: White by the Associated Alumni; sky-blue and •white by the Archconfraternity; red, white and blue by the Boat Club; white and gold by the Choral Union; deep blue by the St. Cecilians; purple and gold by the Columbians; green by the Philopatrians; scarlet and black by the Scientifics; turquoise blue and gold by the Thespians; and magenta by the Philodemics.
—Bev. Father O’Mahony’s lecture on “ The Two Paths,” was well attended last Sunday night at St. Joseph’s Church, South Bend. To say that the Reverend gentleman treated his subject in a masterly manner, would be simply to say what all who are acquainted with him know that he would do. The course of lectures given before the Temperance Society of South Bend, have been eminently successful, owing to the incessant labors of Father O’Mahony, and that his parishioners recognized the value of his labors is seen in the affection which they bear to him. Success to the Temperance Society and to its worthy Spiritual Director, the Rev. W- F. O’Mahony.
—Immediately after the sermon on Thursday next, the Students and others will leave the Church and form for the procession. The Apprentices and the Minims will form in front of the Senior Study Hall; the Juniors will form just after the Minims, in front of the College. The Seniors will form on the west of the College. The Community will form on the east of the new Church, and the Pupils of St. Mary’s Academy, and others, will form on the west of the old Church. The procession 'will form in the following order: 1, the Apprentices; 2, the Minims; 3, the Juniors; 4, the Seniors; 5, the Community; 6, the Band; 7, the Altar boys; 8, the Choir; 9, the Clergy; 10, Pupils of St. Mary’s Academy, and others.’
—The reliable and popular P. Shickey, proprietor of the Notre Dame and St.Mary’s ’Bus Line,—whose advertisement see on another page,—has purchased several new carriages and buggies, and moved into the National Livery Stables, where he will be always found by his friends who want first-class rigs. It is not too much to say that a more careful liveryman cannot be than Mr. Shickey. Since he started his ’Bus four years ago, not one of the thousands of passengers carried by him has met with an accident, nor has he lost or mislaid any of the baggage entrusted to his care. While extending his business, Mr. Shickey will not by any means neglect to give his attention to his popular ’Bus. The patrons of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s may rely on being properly cared for by him.
—The second game for the championship of the College took place the 19 th, between the Excelsiors and the Star of the East clubs and resulted in the following
Score:
o.	K.	B.H.
1 4 3 3 3 2 1 4 6	5 3 3 5 5 4 5 3 2	2 1 0 3 3 1 1 1 0
27	35	12
EXCELSIORS.
STAR or THE EAST. o. R. B.H.
Hayes, c...........
Minton, lb.........
Perea, 3 b.........
Murphy, 3 b........
Downey, 1. f.......
Gross, s. s........
Kelley, c. f.......
Pilliod, r. f......
Frazee, p..........
Total...........
Caren, 1. f........
Marks, s. s........
Monahan, r. f......
Lonstorf, lb.......
Devoto, c..........
Soule, 3 b.........
Watson, c. f.......
Ratigan, 2 b.......
Ryan, p............
Total...........
INNINGS.
—By entertaining good thoughts you will keep out bad ones.
—Application and industry are the best preservations to innocence. '
Zoll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
■ y. Baca, F. Brady, J. Berringer, J. A. Brown, W. Ball, L. Berkey, J. Crummey, G. Crummey, H. Cassidy, 3. Campbell, J. Cullen, T. Carroll, W. Canavan, M. Esan, B. Euans, J. Flaherty, T. Grier, J. Grace, G. Hoyt, H. Hunt, T. Hansard, 3. Hogan, W. Hughes? A. Hertzog, J. Kennedy, S. Kennedy, J. Kopf, M. Keeler, G. Kelly, J. F. Larkin, P. Lawrence, J, Lyons, J. Logsdon, J. Lambin, G. McNulty, E. McPharlin, R. Maas, E. Maas, F. Montgomery, W. McGavin, J. Mathews, E. McLaughlin, Peter Mattimore, Patrick Mattimore, L. Moran, A. Mohan, E. Marshall, P. McCawley, J. Ney, A O’Brien, T. O’Leary, Carl Otto, C. Proctor, G. Roulhac, W. Ryan, J. Rudge, J. Reidy, P. Skahill, F. Schlink, P. Shaul, J. Soule, J. Thornton, F. Wilhelm, C. Walters, R. White, 3. Whalen, N. Watson, C. Welty, T. Gallagher, J. Gillen. J. Ewing.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. Arnold, L. Best, A Bergck, J. Buckels, A. Burger, J. W. Connolly, J. Crummey, J. Colton, J. Dore, J. Del Vecchio, F. Ewing, L. Evers, P. Fitzpatrick, J. French, F. Frazee, J. T. Foley, J. Griffith, E. D. Gleason, F. Hoffman, C. Hake, C. H. Hitchcock, M. Kramer, J. P. Kurtz, Max Katzauer, H. Korty, F. Klaner, A. Leitelt, 3. Leitelt, C. E. Leonhardt, P. McBride, R. McGrath, H. McGuire, M. J. Murphy, W. Nicholas, D. Nelson, G. Nester, J. Nelson, C. Ottoway, L. Pilliod, E. F. Riopelle, L. Smith, 3. A. Smith, T. J. Solon, P. Schnurrer, N. Vanamee, H. Weber, C. J.Whipple, J. R. Willis, 3. E. Wood, F. Rosa, T. Quinn,' 0. Meyer, G. R. Serrill, F. Phelan, O. Ludwig, W. Smith,T. McNamara.	•
-	MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Samuel Goldsberry, Francis Carlin, John Duffield, John O’Meara, Joseph Carrer, Colly Campeau, Francis McGrath, Lee J. Frazee, Colly Clarke, Otto Lindberg, Michael McAuliffe, Thomas Hooley, Hugh Colton, Willie Lindsay, Peter Nelson, Willie Coolbaugh, Harley McDonald, Charlie Bushey, Albert Bushey.
Class Honors.
FOR THE WEEK ENDING THURSDAY, MAY 21.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
Senior Class—T. Grier, T. Murphy, C. Walters, J. Hogan, E. McLaughlin.
Junior Class—F. Devoto, T. Gallagher, J. Caren, G. Kelly, J.-Gillen.
Sophomore Class—H. Cassidy, J. Brown, T. Hansard, G. Crummey.
Freshman Class—N. Mooney, J. Ewing, E. McPharlin, M. Keeler, D. O’Connell, J. Marks, T. J. Culliton, J. McHugh, T. McNamara, J. Mathews, J. Ney, R. Maas, J. Soule, C. Otto, G. McNulty, C. Welty, J. Lyons, W. Ball-
MINIM DEPARTMENT	.
Edward Raymond, Colley Clarke, Ralph Golsen, Samuel Goldsberry, Walter Cunningham, Colly Campeau, Francis McGrath, Francis Carlin, Otto Lindberg, Clement Moody, John Duffield, Lee J. Frazee, Robert Haley, Oscar Bell, Joseph Carrer, Michael McAuliffe, John O’Meara, Willie Campeau.
List of Excellence.
[The Students mentioned in this list are those who have been at the head of the Classes named during five consecutive weeks, and whose conduct has been at least satisfactory.—Director of Studies.]
Fifth Greek—J. Ewing. English Literature—F. Gallagher. English Composition—R. Maas.
Note—Through some mistake^the name of H. Korty did not appear for some months—as it should have done—on the list of Class Honors in Telegraphy Department.—Director of Studies.
List of Letters
Remaining in the Notre Dame Post Office, May 22.
Clarence A. Locke, Mrs. Elizabeth Reily, John J. Hanly, Miss Annie Rummel, John Sims,
Martin C. Locke, Mrs. Mary Brady, Miss Frankie De Long, Edward McAnaly, George Yates.
—The stamp of civilization—The postage stamp.
525; :
THE SCHOLASTIC.''
A Centennial Calendar
For Ascertaining any Day of the Week for any Given Time Within the Present Century.
Years 1801 to 1900
1801	1807	1818	1829	1835	1846	1857	1863	1874	1885	1891
1802	1813	1819	1830	1841	1847	1858	1869	1875	1886	1897
1803	1814	1820	1831	1842	1853	1859	1870	1881	1887	1898
1805	1811	1822	1833	1839	1850	1861	1867	1878	1889	1895
1806	1817	1823	1834	1845	1851	1862	1873	1879	1890	....
1809	1815	1826	1837	1843	1854	1865,	1871	1882	1893	1899
1810	1821	1827	1838	1849	1855	1866	1877	1883	1894	1900
ILeaji Years.
NOTE. To ascertain any day of the week in any	1804
year of the present century, first look in the table of years for the year required, and under the months are figures which	1808-
refer to ,the corresponding figures at the head of the columns of days below.	1812
For example: To know what day of the week September 2 was on in 1873, in the	1816
table of years look for 1873, and in a par-	1820
allel line under Sept, is the figure 1, which directs to colum 1, in which it will be seen	
that Sept. 2 fell on Tuesday. This table will give the day of the week on which a	1824
person was born.	1828
ri cs
co
4
5
6
2
3
7
1
1832	1860	1888
1836	1864	1892
1840	1868	1896
1844	1872	....
1848	1876	....
1852	1880	....
1856	1884	....
7
5
3
1
6
4
2
00
7
1
2
5
6
3
4
29
3
1
6
4
2
ci g
co
7
1
<1 o co
3
4
2
5
6^
3
4
4
2
7
7
5
5
1
2
6
7
7
5
3
1
5
3
1
6
4
6
2
ci g
co
5
6
7
3
4
1
2,
© a
th p
GJ
co
1
2
3
6
7
4
5
co
3
4
co
6
7
tn o co
2
co
4
5
2
6
7
1
4
5
2
3
3
4
7
1.
5
6
5
6
2
3
7
1
o co
7
1
2
a
6
3
4
2
7
5
3
1
5
3
1
6
4
7
5
3
1
6
4
2
7
6
4
2
2
3
4
7
1
5
6
3
1
6
4
2
7
6
4
2
7
5
1
6
4
4
2
7
6
4
2
7
5
3
1
5
3
5
3
1
2
7
5
3
6
1 .	a	3	4=	5	6	7
Monday 1	Tuesday	1	Wednesday 1	Thursday 1	Friday	1	Saturday 1	Sunday	1
Tuesday	2	Wednesday 2	Thursday 2	Friday	2	Saturday 2	Sunday	2	Monday	2
Wednesday 3	Thursday 3	Friday	3	Saturday 3	Sunday	3	Monday	3	Tuesday . 3
Thursday 4	Friday	4	Saturday 4	Sunday	4	Monday	4	Tuesday 4	Wednesday .4
Friday	5	Saturday 5	Sunday	5	Monday	5	Tuesday	5	Wednesday 5	Thursday 5
Saturday 6	Sunday	6	Monday	6	Tuesday	6	Wednesday 6	Thursday _6	Friday	6
Sunday	7	Monday	7	Tuesday 7	Wednesday 7	Thursday 7	Friday	7	Saturday 7
Monday	8	Tuesday 8	Wednesday 8	Thursday 8	Friday	8	Saturday 8	Sunday	8
Tuesday 9	Wednesday 9	Thursday 9	Friday	9	Saturday 9	Sunday	9	Monday	9
Wednesday 10	Thursday 10	Friday	10	Saturday 10	Sunday 10	Monday 10	Tuesday 10
Thursday 11	Friday 11	Saturday 11	Sunday 11	Monday 11	Tuesday 11	Wednesday 11
Friday	12	Saturday 12	Sunday 12	Monday 12	Tuesday 12	Wednesday 12	Thursday 12
Saturday 13	Sunday 13	Monday 13	Tuesday 13	Wednesday 13	Thursday 13	Friday	13
Sunday 14	Monday 14	Tuesday 14	Wednesday 14	Thursday 14	Friday 4 14	Saturday 14
Monday 15	Tuesday 15	Wednesday 15	Thursday 15	Friday	15	Saturday 15	Sunday	15
Tuesday 16	Wednesday 16	Thursday 16	Friday	16	Saturday 16	Sunday 16	Monday 16
Wednesday 17	Thursday 17	Friday	17	Saturday 17	Sunday 17	Monday 17	Tuesday 17
Thursday 18	Friday 18	Saturday 18	Sunday 18	Monday 18	Tuesday 18	Wednesday 18
Friday	19	Saturday 19	Sunday 19	Monday 19	Tuesday 19	Wednesday 19	Thursday 19
Saturday 20	Sunday 20	Monday 20	Tuesday 20	Wednesday 20	Thursday 20	Friday	20
Sunday 21	Monday 21	Tuesday 21	Wednesday 21	Thursday 21	Friday	21	Saturday 21
Monday 22	Tuesday 22	Wednesday 22	Thursday 22	Friday	22	Saturday 22	Sunday.	22
Tuesday 23	Wednesday 23	Thursday 23	Friday	23	Saturday 23	Sunday 23	Monday 23
Wednesday 24	Thursday 24	Friday	24	Saturday	Sunday 24	Monday 24	Tuesday 24
Thursday 25	Friday	25	Saturday 25	Sunday 25	Monday 25	Tuesday 25	Wednesday 25
Friday	26	Saturday 26	Sunday 26	Monday 26	Tuesday 26	Wednesday 26	Thursday 26
Saturday 27	Sunday 27	Monday 27	Tuesday 27	Wednesday 27	Thursday 27	Friday	27
Sunday 28	Monday 28	Tuesday 28	Wednesday 28	Thursday 28	Friday	28	Saturday 28
Monday 29	Tuesday 29	Wednesday 29	Thursday 29	Friday	29	Saturday 29	Sunday	29
Tuesday 30	Wednesday 30	Thursday 30	Friday	30	Saturday 30	Sunday 30	Monday 30
Wednesday 31	Thursday 31|Friday	31		Saturday 31	Sunday 31	Monday 31	Tuesday 31
526
THE SCHOLASTIC.
Who Wrote It?
SAINT MANY’S ACADEMY

The above interrogatory has reference to the literary productions of our day. The motives an author has in presenting his works, whether it be money, or to establish feme, or to gain influence over minds already corrupted; or whether honestly intended for the improvement and advancement of the race—these are questions worthy of our most serious consideration. We know “pure waters do not flow from an impure fountain,” nor does safe literature emanate from impure and reckless minds. Now, we are sorry to say that many popular authors are of a very questionable moral character. No one will deny this. But must we stop reading on this account ? No: but we must discard those authors who are unworthy of our respect
Almost everybody reads, but how very few obtain intellectual nourishment or moral vigor from their readings! If you really wish to become acquainted with a subject, secure those works treating upon it which are capable of communicating sound information; study them diligently. But what is the mode of procedure most common at the present day? There is a new book just issued. Everybody reads it. Oh, it is charming! Everybody quotes it! It has been dramatized, and to confess you “ have not read it” will c^use you to lose caste. But of the source! Who thinks 01 that? when in fact it should be the first question upon looking at a work, or judging of its merits. Transactions, depicted no matter in how choice phrases, upon which we should shudder to look if they were really to pass, before our eyes, certainly should not engage the attention of the young. Plots, no matter how adroitly they may cover vice, under the pretence of accident, necessity, and ignorance of consequences, on the part of the characters, which, if realized, and actually lived out, would brand a real character with infamy, should not be brought before an upright mind. Indeed, an upright mind repels them instinctively.
Be sure that while you study—even while you skim it over, be it ever so lightly—you are imbibing the spirit of your author; and when you once realize this fully, will you dare ■ read a work, or more especially presume to give works to inexperienced persons to read, without considering their source ? Would you drink the purest water, which you knew had passsd through a hydrant the interior of which had been coated with poison, knowing that the poison would dissolve and mingle with the water? Certainly you would not. Now, good ideas we may compare to the pure water. The poisoned hydrant, is the mind of corrupt writers; and however pure apparently the images, or eloquent the language of these-authors, they take the taint of the avenues through which they pass. As the face is the index of the mind, so an author’s works are but the reflection of his pure or polluted heart. Take, for example, Lord Byron, and we see that his beautiful rhetoric covers beneath its tinsel ideas as coarse, revolting and criminal, as was his own conduct. Many another name might be cited, whose works show the vitiated spring from which they emanate. Alas, too many authors carry with them a hidden venom, which poisons the purity of the mind and leaves a dark impress on the soul, which time rarely effaces. Who then will have the temerity to peruse literature without understanding well the character of those who produce it ?
■	M. R.
—The Chapel of Loreto has been newly carpeted and renovated.
—The improvements around the grounds are going on with great energy.
—Application to study grows more and more earnest as the approaching examination draws near and nearer.
—Botanizing is now practically enjoyed, for the bright days of last week have made the fields and woods rich in specimens.
—Very Rev. Father Granger, C. S. C., spent' several days last week at St. Mary’s. The Juniors had the honor of repeating their entertainment of the Sth for him.
—On Monday last, the President of Notre Dame College, Rev. Father Colovin, G. S. C., gave a very practical instruc-, tion to the pupils at St. Mary’s. The subject was: “The Blessed Virgin as a Model for her Sex.”
—The exquisitely beautiful burses made and ornamented at St. Mary’s to be sent to the Fair for the benefit of St. Catherine’s Normal School, Baltimore, were exhibited in the Study Hall to the delight and admiration of the pupils.
—The beautiful redbird donated by Miss A. Keline, of Council Bluffs, is a great pet, for it reminds us of one who was a “pet” in the best sense of the word. May her own cheerful voice soon be heard again at her “ other home ” on the St. Joseph River.
—A great number of visitors have called at the Academy since the bright weather has commenced, among them Mr. and Mrs. J. Spillard, of Elgin, Ill.; Mrs. Wells, of-, Ill.; Rev. Father Ott, of Russia, Iowa; Father Abbeline, of Prairie du Chien, Wis.; Father Musun, of Crown Point, and Father Oechtering, of Laporte.
—On last Saturday (the 15th,) quite a sensation was • created at St. Mary’s by the arrival of the Director, Principal and teachers of the Elkhart High School—Professor J. M. Strasburg, Misses Dimond and Drake, accompanied by their pupils. The party spent four hours at St. Mary’s, visiting all the departments of the Institution. The young ladies of the Academy entertained them with vocal ana instrumental music. After many kind expressions of satisfaction from the Professor on behalf of the party, they left -to visit Notre Dame College.
—A. friend at Morris, Hl., writes to us as follows:	-
Editor of the Scholastic—Happening on a Western trip we dropped into St. Angela’s as the young humanity was all alive, celebrating Sister Georgia’s feast, and making her the recipient of some handsome presents. We were indeed surprised to find the Institution on such advanced ground. The Boarding Pupils number fifty-five, among whom 9 young ladies are candidates for the gold Graduating Medal at the next Commencement Exercises. Having in our company some professional musical judges, we are more confident in saying that the young ladies exhibited talent, taste, and correctness, both in vocal and instrumental rendering. Their appearance and deportment quite ladylike, would do credit to any Institution. Having received a pleasant treat during our visit to the interior, we must say something of the surroundings. The grounds are lovely, highly improved, with varieties of shrubs and shade-trees, flower-beds, etc. Another brick addition, 40x36, ft., in progress as high as 2d the story, to the west end of the main building, adds much both to the exterior appearance as a whole, and no doubt in the way of giving much needed room inside, as we counted eight pianos in a Hall not extensive enough for that number.
ATR NOTES.	(
DRAWING.
—Miss Pauline Gaynor has been promoted from the 5th Class in drawing to the 4th Class.
—Miss Alice Cullen has finished a sphere in a manner to deserve special praise. We are looking forward to the pleasure of noting her promotion to a higher Class. Several others are finishing cones very carefully.
—Miss Lulu Henrotin has ibeen promoted from the 4th Class In drawing to the 3d Class. A very beautifulyl finished sphere, drawn (a little out of course)’after the eggs, marked this happy transition, and showed it to be deserved. -	.	■

THE SCHOLASTIC.
527
•WATER COLORS. -	•
—Miss Lulu Henrotin finished two choice clusters of ■wild flowers on silk. Miss Lizzie Ritchie one cluster equally choice, on white-wood.
—Miss Lizzie Ritchie has heen promoted from the 4th, Class in water colors to the 3d Class. Miss Ritchie finished a shell this week very beautifully; so beautifully, that her promotion would seem a tardy one, did we not know how strictly the promotions are governed by the rules of the course. Several other young ladies in the 5th and 4th Classes have only to fulfil the necessary conditions, to rise, triumphantly, into higher Classes. Another year will see all such cases obviated, as every pupil, from the 5th Class in drawing to the 1st in painting, will walk strictly in the path prescribed. We can now, however, congratulate those young ladies on deserving more praise than their actual standing in class would indicate, trad we promise to make faithful note of this. The Annual Exhibition, however, will be their best vindication, if they do themselves justice by unwearied application during the time allotted to them.
TABLET OF HONOR.
For the Week Ending May 10.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
For Politeness, Neatness, Order, Amiability, Correct Deportment and strict observance of academic rules, the following young ladies are enrolled:
Misses M. Walker, A. Curtin, M. Wicker, L. Ritchie, E. Haggerty, A. Lloyd, J. Locke, J. Kearney, R. Green, A. Smith, L. Dragoo. G. Walton, A. Clarke, J. Fanning, H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, L. Arnold, A. St. Clair, A. O’Connor, M. Daily, A. Walsh, J. McGuire, E. York, A. and F. Dilger, J. Bennett, M. Faxon, E Dougherty, J. Nunning, L. Tinsley, B. Wade, M. Julius, M. Dunbar, M. Brady, L. Kelly, S. Harris, C. Woodward, M. Walsh, K. Hutchinson, M. Pritchard, R. Neteler, K. Morris, L. Henrotin, E. Quinlan, J. Kreigh, R. Klar, A. Byrne, M. Roberts, J. Pierce, B. Spencer, K. Spencer, M. Bryson, K. Greenleaf, E. Mann, A. Duncan, S. Hole, M. Carlin, M- Sheil, M. Poquette, K. Casey, M. Gaynor, M. O’Mahony, M. and E. Thompson, 0. Morgan, N. McAuliffe, M. Quill, H. Russel, S. Moran, M. Hutchinson, S. and I. Edes, M. McKay, N. McFarlane, S. Cunningham, D. Cavenor, J. Riopelle, E. Edes, S. Reising, L. Gustine, F. and G. Wells, L. Johnson, D. Allen, A. Smith, E. Pierce, N. King, C. Maigrey, L. Bosch, G. Hills, L. Brownbridge, L. Schwass, M. Railton, S. Swalley, L. Ryan, R. Cordonnier.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses B. Wilson, I. Fisk, M. Cravens, M. Schultheis, A. Cullen, M. and B. Siler, B. Golsen, M. Reynolds, S. Cash, L. Kirchner, N. McGrath, M. Hooper, A. Goewey, M. Hogan, L. Walsh, M. Hoffman, E. Lappin, A. Koch, M. Derby, K. Hudson.	’
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. Ewing, N. Mann, I. Mann, M. and C. Hughes, A. McGrath, C. Trull, R. Goldsberry and Y. Mier.
THE ART SCHOOL.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN DRAWING.
-1st Class—Miss R. Neteler.
4th Class—Misses G. Walton, A. Cullen, E. Thompson, M. Thompson, E. Lange, A. ^Koch, E. Lappin, M. A. Schultheis.
5th Class—Misses M. O’Connor, L. Kirchner, J. Kreigh and E. Colwell.
Promoted to the 3rd Class of Drawing, Miss L. Henrotin.
Promoted to the 4th Class,'Miss P; Gaynor.
. WATER-COLOR PAINTING.
4th Class—Misses B. Wade and C. Morgan.
5th Class—Misses L. Henrotin and N. McAuliffe.
Miss L. Ritchie, promoted from 4th to 3rd Class.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN LESSONS.	•
Graduating Class—Misses M. Walker, A. Curtin, L.
Ritchie, E. Haggerty, A. Lloyd, J. Locke, J. Kearney, R. Green, A. Smith, L. Dragoo.
1st Sr. Class—Misses G. Walton, A. Clarke, J. Fanning, H. Foote, M. Riley, E. Dennehey, K. Joyce, L. Arnold, A. St. Clair.
2nd Sr. Class—Misses A. O’Connor,’ IM. Daily, A. Walsh, L. Ritchie, L. Wyman, J. McGuire, E. York, A. and F. Dilger, J. Bennett, M. Faxon, E. Dougherty, J. Nunning, L. Tinsley, B. Wade, M. Julius, M. Dunbar, L. Johnson, M. Brady.
3rd Sr. Class—Misses L. Kelly, S. Harris, C. Woodward, M. Walsh, K. Hutchinson, R. Neteler, P. Gaynor, . L. Henrotin, J. Kreigh, R. Klar, A. Byrne, J. Pierce, B. Spencer, K- Spencer, M. Bryson, K. Greenleaf, E. Mann, M. Poquette, A. Duncan, S. Hole, M. Sheil, K. Casey, T. Gaynor, M. O’Mahony, B. Wilson, M. O’Connor, L Fisk, M. Cravens.	.	.
1st Prep. Class—Misses E. Thompson, C. Morgan, M. Quill, H. Russel, S. Moran, M. Hutchinson, H. Parks, S. and I. Edes, M. McKay, N. McFarlane, S. Cunningham, D. Cavenor. A. Ewing, E. Lange, B. Siler, B. Golsen, M. Reynolds, M. Schultheis, A. Cullen, M. Siler, L. McKinnon.
2nd Prep. Class—Misses J. Riopelle, E. Edes, M. Anthony, L. Gustine, F. and G. Wells, L. Johnson, E. Pierce, N. King, M. Hooper, J. Brown, S. Cash, L. Kirchner, N. McGrath.
3rd Prep. Class—Misses Maigrey, L. Bosch, L. Schwass, S- Swalley.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses A. Goewey, M. Hogan, M. Hoffman, 0. Yates, E. Lappin, A. Koch, A. Ewing, N. ’ Mann, L. Walsh and M. Redfield.	■	-
1st Jr. Prep. Class—Misses A. Peak, ff. Mann, K. Hudson, M. Bell, M. and C. Hughes, E. Simpson, A- McGrath and C. Trull.
2nd Jr. Prep. Class—Misses R. Goldsberry, Y. Mier.
—Who is the laziest man? The furniture dealer; he keeps chairs and lounges about all the time.
—There is nothing more hazardous than to be bothering an irritable woman with foolish questions on wash day.
—“Johnny, what are you doing, my son?” “Oh! nothing, only trying to hit Frank on the fingers with' the hatchet.”
—Theodore Hook was delighting a few friends one summer’s evening at Fulham, by an extempore comic song, when in the middle of it the servant entered with. “Please, sir, here’s Mr. Winter, the tax gatherer, he says he has called for taxes.” Hook would not be interrupted, but went on at the pianoforte as if nothing had happened, with the following stanza:	-
Here comes Mr. Winter, collector of taxes.
I’d advise you to pay him whatever he axes;
Excuses wont do, he stands no sort of flummery,
Though Winter his name is, his process is summary.
NATIONAL HOTEL
Sorrtlx Bend, Indiana
At the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railway Depot, opposite Studebakers’ Wagon Works.
rpHOSE who patronize the National Hotel will find during their I stay at South Bend all the comforts of home. Conveyances to and from the CoUege and St. Mary’s can be procured at the Hotel.
HAIR-CUTTING, SHAVING,
SHAMPOOING, ETC.
SPETH, Corner "Waslixiigtoii and Alicliigaii Sts., [Under Coonley’s Drug Store]
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
,	my-22
528
THE SCHOLASTIC.
pALMER & VanWINKLE, Dealers in
CONFECTIONERIES,
Musical Instruments, Gold Pens, School and Miscellane ous Books, Stationery, Slates, Inks, Newspapers, Periodicals, Magazines/ Etc.
Special attention paid to filling orders for Students- o24-tf
p DUBAIL,
* HARBER AND HAIRDRESSER,
71 Washington St., -	-	- South Benet, Ind
Mr. Duhail spares no pains to make his work satisfactory He will be in attendance every Wednesday at the College at 9 o’clodk A M., to attend to all students desiring his services.	o24-tf
JJR. C. H. MIDDLETON, .
DENTIST,
109 Michigan Street, -	- South Bend, Indiana.
o24-tf
REWARD BUTSEE,	~
Dealer in
WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELRY, Etc.,
76 Michigan Street, South Bend, Indiana. Repairing promptly done, and all work warranted. %-tf
A HANAUER,
’ Nos. 32 & 34 Michigan Street,
South Bend, Indiana.
Dealer in
READY-MADE CLOTHING,
GENTS’ FURNISHING GOODS,
STAPLE AND FANCY DRY GOODS.
All goods sold are guaranteed.	o24-tf
JAMES BONNEY,
PHOTOGRAPHER,
. Cor. Michigan and Washington Sts., -	Over Coonley's Drug Store,
South Bend, Indiana.
Mr. Bonney will be at his old stand at the College every Wednesday morning at 8 o’clock. He has on hand photographsof the Professors of the University, members of the Col-
lege Societies, etc., etc.,
Which he is prepared to furnish to all desiring!
'	’	024-tf ’
E. MAYR,
JRELAND & SON,	. ~ z
FROPBIETORS OF	'
LIVERY AND. FEED STABLE,
No. 51 MICHIGAN SI., - SOUTH BEND, IND., ^Opposite the Dwight House). *
--o---	'
HACK DINE
To and from all trains to the Dwight House or any part of the City, and to the College and St. Mary’s.	%o24 2m
“THE NINE CENT STORE!” ---------------0--- DBOP IN AT
“THE NINE CENT STORE!”
AND
See the Curiosities.
No. 114 Michigvn Stbbet, - South Bend, Indiana. %o24-tf.
THE OLD “RELIABLE”
DWIGHT HOUSE,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
"A VESSRS. KNIGHT and MILLS having become managers of the ±YL above popular and reliable House, renovated, repaired and furnished it with new, first-class furniture. The travelling public may rely on finding the best accommodation.
Ladies and Gentlemen visiting Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will find here aH the comforts of home during their stay,
JERRY KNIGHT, 1 ProDrietorB Captain MILLS, f Kr°Prietors.
POPULAR CLOTHING HOUSE!
-----------o-
M. LIVINGSTON & CO?, •
94= Micliigan. St., Soutli Bend, Ind.,
We invite the attention of the public to our large stock o FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING
—AND—
FURNISHING GOODS,
OUR stock is always large and carefully selected, and everything you want in our Line will always be found on our shelves. Our' Full DRESS SUITS show an amount of pains-taking scaacely ever seen in Ready-Made or Custom Work. The Prices are MUCH LESS than the same material would cost if made to measure. Money is scarce but Clotliiiig is Clieap. If you don’t believe it, drop in and see our Goods and Prices.
Our Merchant Tailoring Department
is in full blast. We have a full Stock of Cloths, Cassi-meres and "Vestings, and we turn out the best Fits. We sell for Cash, and our Prices are about One-Third Lower than any other house in the business.	o24-tf.
ICECREAM! SODA WATER! OYSTERS!
For the Best Confectionery, go to
ED. GILLEN’S RESTAURANT,
99 MAIN STREET, - -	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA. "
MEALS AT ALL HOURS!
Engraver, Watchmaker and Jeweller,
105 Michigan St., . -	-	- South Bend, Ind.
Special attention given to FINE ENGRAVINGS, in Script and Old
flnglish, on Watches, Rings and Badges.
decl-jjtf.
Fruits, Nuts, Confectionery, and Choice Cigars,
ALWAYS ON HAND!,'
J®** Fresh Candies Made Daily.	!
J(io24-U