Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vlotni'iis; vlve quasi eras nioritnrus.
Volume XI. . NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER 27, 1877.
Number 9.
The Gift of a Little Child.
Children once amidst the sunshine
Of a sultry summer day, In their gambols gay and merry, Laughed the lengthened hours away.
Flowers ’round them sweetly blushing Filled with fragrance all the air,—
Meet companions they of childhood, Oh, so innocent and fair!
Soon an old man, weak and weary, ’
Towards the gate-way tottered slow;
Wrinkles on his brow had written
Time’s hard tale of care and woe.
Saddened grew the gladsome faces, Silent all the voices loud;
Thus the birds oft hush their singing,—
Sunshine darkened by a cloud.
But the pity and the wonder
Faded quickly from their eyes;
One alone, one little fellow, Ne’er forgot that sad surprise. •
With a bunch of rosy flowers,
Towards the old man fast he crept; Laid the offering on that bosom, Looked into those eyes and wept.
Oh, my brother, when you battle On the stormy sea of life, May that gray-haired stranger’s blessing Best upon thee in the strife. .
Oh, the angels must have hastened
That sweet act of love to laud,	•
And the incense of those flowers -
Risen upward unto God 1
E. J. M.
Coral.	'
Besides the pearl, which is produced by molluscan animals, the coral is one of the most precious products of the sea. Its formation is the work of millions of small creatures which can hardly be said to possess an animal structure, but which, by constant labor, not only produce small masses of coral, but build up mountains, islands and even continents. This creature, although one of the smallest is nevertheless one of the oldest of creation, for according to geology it was through the work of these creatures that nearly the whole crust of the earth was at the same time produced and built up.
The coral belongs to the great family of madreporidm, among which we find the d ifferent isis porites, the millepores, tubipores, and hundreds of various other forms, almost impossible to describe on account of their great variety, some appearing to be terrestrial plants, others like feathers, as the gorgoniae, others like mushroons, others again like mosses, etc. Dioscoridus, Pliny, Cesarpinus and Tournefort thought that a polypary was nothing else than a vegetating stone, because its base is always attached to some rock, and the trunk branches out like a tree. It was only in the year 1740 that a physician of Marseilles, by the name of Peysonnal, rediscovered and approved what Im-peratus had done 50 years before. Yet though they knew that there were animalcules living in the coral, still there were a great many things yet to be learned. How do these animalcules produce such a mass of stone ? How do they reproduce themselves? Questions like these were as yet mysteries to them.
Corals grow by the agglomeration of cells, which are constructed perpendicularly on each other so that the series of cells reach from the bottom of the sea to its surface. Thus it is that the archipelagoes of Polynesia and Australia have coral as the foundation stones of these islands. Around these islands we have barriers of coral that protect the coast from the raging waves of the ocean, and these barriers have also been produced by these indefatigable masons of the deep. As soon as a coral reef reaches above the level of low tide it cesaes to grow, and the waves beating against them wear them away and transport the smaller fragments to other places, quieter and more adapted to sedimentary deposits; and the waves thus dashing against the coral-reef carry along the debris of other coralreefs or mud from the mountain wave on the sea shore and deposit them in the interstices of the reef. Soon the sea brings along the seeds of plants from some distant shore and birds transport seeds which had fallen in their plumage, and in a short time the island stands covered with luxuriant verdure.
It would perhaps not be amiss to notice here where the different kind of coral-reefs are to be found, and to give their division according to Darwin. When the masses of coral attain such a size as to be of geographical importance, they are termed “coral-reefs.” The coral producing polypes require for their existence that the average temperature of the sea shall not be less during winter than 66°; and coral-reefs are therefore not to be sought for in our temperate latitude.
Reefs abound in all seas not far removed from the equator, being found chiefly on the east coast of Africa and the shores of Madagascar, in the Red Sea and Persian Gulf, throughout the Indian Ocean and the whole of the Pacific Archipelago, around the West Indian Islands and on the
130	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
coast of Florida. According to Darwin they may be divided into Fringing reefs, Barrier reefs, and Atolls.
1. Fringing reefs are usually of a moderate size; they either surround islands or skirt the shores of continents. Their difference from the Barrier reefs is that there is neither a deep channel of water left between them and the island nor is the outward margin towards the sea of any considerable depth.
2d. The Barrier reefs do not differ greatly from the Fringing reefs. The only difference is that they are farther from the island o.r continent and that the channel inclosed and the outward margin is of great depth.
3d. Atolls are oval or circular reefs of coral enclosing a central lake called a lagoon. They are the same as barrier reefs except that there is not an island in the middle.
Having said so much concerning coral, let us say a word or two on coral fisheries. The coral which is used in Italy is principally taken from the Strait of Messina. The fisheries have been divided by the Cicilian Government into ten parts, of which in one part only may coral be taken in a given year. This is a very wise rule and is based on scientific investigations, since it does not destroy the beds, as only once in a circuit of ten years is any one part worked.
It has been scientifically shown that from nine to ten years are required for an exhausted part to reproduce coral of the size that it generally attains. The coral that is used in France is taken from the coasts of Tunis and French Africa.
The finest and most delicate corals are found in still wa ters; and in the quiet sheltered depths brimstone corals and those of flower-like form appear. The red coral of commerce, so much admired for its fine color, susceptible of a high polish and much used for ornamental purposes, is chiefly obtained from the Mediterranean. It is brought up from a depth of ten to twelve fathoms, rarely twenty, by means of a sort of grappling apparatus dragged after one or more boats, the pieces having been broken from the bottom by beams of wood which are sunk by weights. But much of the coral falls back into the sea and is left to the skill of divers. They are placed in baskets laden with stones and sunk to the bottom, where they can stay from one minute to a minute and a half.	'
From time immemorial coral was highly prized; but although Pliny speaks of coral it appears from other circumstances that coral was not much used by the Romans, for though among the excavations of Herculaneum and Pompeii ornaments made of all sorts of substances are found, ornaments of coral are rarely met with. Every one knows how highly a beautiful ornament of finely polished finish is prized at present. But the preciousness of coral has not changed; it is only the ideas of man that have changed.
Monsignor Capel.
Mr. L. J. Jennings, formerly editor of the New York Times, now London correspondent of the World,—gives, in a recent letter to the latter paper, the following account of an interview he had with Monsignor Capel:—
London, September 26.
It is not possible for any man to travel much about England in the present day without noticing the number of new churches, schools, monasteries and convents which the Catholics have built. A dozen years ago or so they had comparatively few places of worship in England, and
still fewer places of education. Now, go where you will, you soon come into contact with unmistakable signs of their progress. If your attention is attracted in any town by a church of more than ordinary beauty the chances are that you will find it has been erected by the Roman Catholics. The social ban which once attached to members of that Church has disappeared as entirely as their political disabilities. A Protestant does not object to his son marrying a Roman Catholic lady, nor does a man lose his office or appointment, or suffer in any way in his ca- * reer, by joining the Romish Church.- I remember the time when it was all very different. More than one personal friend of my own has had his prospects completely ruined by embracing the Catholic religion. The change , which has taken place in the tone of public feeling, especially among the “upper classes,” oh this subject, would not be credited by any man who knew England twelve or I fifteen years ago and has never visited it since.
It struck me that many of your readers would be interested to learn what are the opinions which are entertained by one of the most eminent and influential of all the Catholic leaders of the day on this important subject—for I need not point out that it is important in both a social and political sense. I, therefore, by the kindness of a ’ friend of mine, obtained an introduction to Mgr. Capel,	1
of the pro-Cathedral of Kensington—the most popular,	;
persuasive and successful Roman Catholic in England. In saying this, I am not forgetting Dr. Newman or Cardinal Manning, both great men, one of them (Newman) gifted ; with a high and rare order of genius. But although Dr. i' Newman may attract the learned, and Manning win over the austere, Capel exercises a sort of charm over people of all ages and degrees of life—he is neither a recluse nor a bigoted ascetic, but a genial and kindly man of the world, while at the same time a devoted priest. You may remember that he is one of the characters introduced into “ Lothair,” where he figures as Mgr. Catesby, although in one chapter, either by a slip of the pen or by design, Mr. Disraeli used his real name and called him Mgr. Capel. At this moment he is certainly the most popular priest in London. His portrait may be seen in almost every shopwindow where photographs are sold, and among the large audiences which gather to hear him preach there are almost as many Protestants as Catholics. I doubt whether any living man has made so many converts to his Church.
I requested my friend to explain to the Monsignor precisely why I wished to see him—namely, to obtain from him his opinions as to the progress of English Catholicism . and its prospects generally, in order that I might lay them before the readers of the New York World. A very obliging and ready assent was made to this proposition, and an interview appointed at Dr. Capel’s house. I found him most free and communicative, shirking no question that I put fo him, but meeting me with the greatest candor; and ' only once when I happened to touch, half accidentally, on a purely religious side of the question, showing the least disposition to adopt any reserve. On the point referred to he said: “That is a controversial topic. I will not enter into a controversy with you now, because we have met for another purpose. But I will meet you again whenever you like, and argue the matter out' with you.”
I said what I felt, that neither then nor at any other time	1
could I desire to open a controversy with him for the sim-	I
pie reason that I was certain to be signally defeated. In-	’
deed, it would require no little study, skill and resource
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	131
to meet Mgr. Capel in the field of argument, as Canon Lid-don, of St. Paul’s Cathedral, found out to his discomfiture some time ago.
“My belief is,” he said, when he got to the actual subject of the conversation, “that Catholics are not relatively more numerous in England now than they were some years ago. In some places we have gained, in others we have lost. Take Kensington as an illustration. We have 1,200 Catholics fewer here now than we had a few years back.”
This much surprised me, for Kensington is the district where the Monsignor himself labors, and where I should have expected to find great progress.
“ The reason of this decline,” he went on, “ is that Albert Grant removed a whole colony of poor Irish, numbering over twelve hundred, and they went to live elsewhere. We, therefore, show a smaller Catholic population than formerly. But there are other places where we have, so to speak, created a new population. When I was a boy I went to school at St. Leonard’s (in Sussex). I well remember one day coming down the street when a mob of twenty or thirty boys set upon me with cries of ‘ Here comes the Pope.’ Presently they began throwing stones at me. My father had always taught me to meet danger and not run away from it, so presently I turned round and faced the little crowd, and said to them—11 cannot fight twenty or thirty all at once, but if I am a Pope I will fight any one of you who chooses to step out.’ Upon this they gave a loud cheer, and went their way and I went mine. A few years ago I led a large party of Catholic pilgrims from that very town, and we sailed from New Haven, an adjoining port, with the Papal flag at the prow and the Union jack at the helm. When I recalled what had happened there when I was a boy, and the altered state of feeling that had grown up since, I fairly broke down. It is more than one could have dared to hope for.”
“It is among the educated and wealthy classes, as it seems to me,” said I, “ that you are making the greatest advances.” “No doubt about it. We are winning over the governing men of the country, the men of thought and influence. In my opinion, however, we are not showing much progress among what I call the middle classes. And yet, if Catholicism is to rest on a sure footing in this country, we must have a middle class. I do not see how we can get on without it.”
“ Is the Ritualistic party in the Anglican Church acting in some degree as a training school for your religion ? ”
“ It cannot foil to do that, although I have a hearty contempt for the Ritualists. Some of them, perhaps, are sincere in their belief that they are but reviving usages and forms of their own Church, but the majority must know better. They are well aware that they are but imitating as far as they dare the Roman service, and their hearts are with the Pope, but they are reluctant to relinquish their positions, and, therefore, still call themselves Protestants. ‘ What am I to do with my wife and family ? ’ some of them will ask; and, indeed, it is for them a very serious question. The effect of their present course is undoubtedly to turn people to our Church. The ripe fruit is constantly falling into our lap. How can any rational man foil to prefer Catholicism to Ritualism—the religion itself to a mere imitation of it? I want you, however, to observe that where we are specially strengthening ourselves in this country is in our educational appliances. Our schools for
girls are now by far the best in England. If anybody wished to see in exercise the finest educational machinery in the world I should unhesitatingly take him into these schools. Their merit is recognized by all sects alike. Nothing like them was ever seen in England before. Recollect, too, that we by no means study the rich alone. We look after the poor more carefully than you Protestants. As an illustration, let me tell you of a little work in which I have taken an active part. Often have I noticed how readily help is extended to the children of the vicious and depraved. But if a poor woman keeps her house clean, and makes her children look tidy, everybody says: ‘ Oh, she needs no help. She and her husband do not squander their little earnings in gin; therefore it is not necessary to do anything for their children. This has always seemed to me very unjust. I do not see why a premium should be placed upon drunkenness. I therefore decided to open a school for the children of the most frugal and well-conducted among the poorest of the poor Irish—such children as would inevitably become mere waifs and strays of the streets. After a time I saw that the day would come when these children must pass from us, and be set to earn a living without help or guidance. I therefore established in connection with the school a place where the girls might be be trained as domestic servants—some as housemaids, some to wait at table, and others of the more intelligent kind to ' go out as lady’s-maids. A kind-hearted lady has given us great assistance, and I can assure you that the servants we turn out are far above the average. They know how to do their work properly. When they go out to service they return us a little of their savings in return for the money they have cost us. But, of course, I could not go on with even this limited experiment without help.”
“The pro-Catbedral is not rich, I believe,” said I.
“It.isnot,” he replied; “and to my office there is nd income attached. These schools are a drain upon both my time and means. One is often obliged to write a little in order to eke out one’s own income. But I do not think you would persuade these poor girls who have been trained by us that the Roman Catholic religion has done them harm.”
“ It is this kind of self-denying labor,” said I, “ combined with the solid ground which you offer to all men of a devotional temperament, that is making for your Church so many new followers.”
“The truth is,” he said, “ that we are living at a critical period. Two forces are now dividing England between them—Catholicism and Infidelity or Free-Thinking; in other words, pure belief and the absence of all belief. These are the antagonistic forces, for Protestantism, as a power, is dead. I speak of it so for as regards the Anglican Church, for undoubtedly Methodism is a power still. For the most part, however, the intellectual men of the day are becoming Free-Thinkers or Roman Catholics—chiefly, I believe, Free-Thinkers. It seems to me that more go to that extreme than to the other. I foresee a great struggle in Europe between these forces,—a struggle which will involve vast consequences for empires as well as for religions. In that contest I expect to see America play a great part— whatever may be her disposition, she cannot fail to exert a tremendous influence. Hence it is that if you had not come here to-day to ask me what I 'thought of Roman Catholic progress in England, I should have liked to ask you what you thought of it in the United States. It is a wonderful thing to me that they are building the second finest Cathe-
132
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
dral in the New World in New York, and that a Protestant should be the architect of it.”
“ If Catholicism is making progress in New York,” said I, “ it is greatly owing to the unfailing tact which has been exercised on many trying occasions by Cardinal McCloskey.”
“ So I believe,” said the Monsignor; “ and I know that he is a man of very great ability. The Americans, too, are a generous people, and I have no doubt that many Protestants besides the architect have given help towards building that cathedral in Fifth Avenue.”
“ I know of some who have done so.”
“ I look with great interest on what we are doing in America. There it is not a question of regaining ground once held and lost—always a difficult task. That is what is before us here. Some people think that England is on the eve of a great conversion. I do not. What we win we shall win by slow degrees. But, although not so sanguine as some of my friends, I have no fear of the ultimate result The Papacy has gone through much greater troubles than those which surround it now, and it has survived them all. You are a Protestant, and cannot, perhaps, understand the feeling which leads me to be as certain of our ultimate triumph over our antagonists as I am that we two are now talking together. I do not underrate our enemies, but I think of the promises which we have from the Blessed .Founder of our religion, and I know that they will be fulfilled.”
His countenance was full of solemnity and devotion, his manner was earnest and impressive, and as he spoke of his Master he made the Sign of the Cross. I thought of his many years of self-sacrificing labor, of his work among the poor, of his efforts to do something towards reducing, even by a little, the vast sum of human ignorance and sorrow. I am a Protestant, as he said, but I should have to- be a very bigoted one if I could not respect, and even reverence, the spirit which leads a man thus to give up the best part of his life for others.
“I wish,” I said, as I shook his hand at parting, “ that I could do justice to what you have said to me in the letter which I shall write to New York.”
“You can at least,” replied he with a smile, “assure your American friends that there is no greater admirer of their national character than I am, and no one who looks forward with greater confidence to their future destiny.”
L. J. J.
Some Curious Words.
At first sight one would take “unshed” to be a monosyllable, rhyming with “lunched” and “punched.” But it really is a dissyllable; the tears that you repress remain un-shed.
“ Redyed ” would seem to be the name of something red, like red lead, for instance; but the color is not necessarily red—it will be left to your own judgment, aided by the suggestions of the artisan who is to dye your duds anew.
It is no doubt allowable, generally speaking, to diminish the signification of an adjective of quality by adding the termination “ish,”as, for example, “greenish,” “ sweetish,” etc. It remained for Cooper—the critical, fastidious Feni-more Cooper—to explore all the euphonies of this appendage. In his Miles Wallingford he introduces, colloquially of course, the form “ richish.” Happily,’ until we
become a nation of inveterate sneezers, the word will never come into common use.
“Peruse” naturally suggests a French origin—like “amuse,” “refuse,” eta But it never was French. It is even a question whether it can be traced back to the Latin. Some say it comes from perutor, perusus, “ to us'e up,” others from penidere peroisus, “ to look through,” turning the ® into a u; but neither etymology is proved. The meaning is a little doubtful too, some persons using it in the sense of “ to read inattentively,” and others making it mean “ to read attentively.”
“Regal ” is beautifully expressive when spelt backwards, and applies more especially to King Gambrinus, beyond and above all other monarchs.
“ Squad ” doesn’t look Frencby, but it is. In French they spell it “esconade,” which lengthens the pronunciation a little, but without impairing its peculiar expressiveness, and it means the same thing exactly.
One who knows French and not Greek might imagine that “ pleurisy,” had something to do with weeping. In Etymology, as in other sciences, a little knowledge is a dangerous thing.
Facts and Figures.
From the San Francisco Monitor.
We frequently meet with statements in the newspapers in regard to the relative cost, to the people of the nations of Europe, of their Church establishments, which do great injustice to the Catholic Church; and as there is no argument so clear and conclusive as that which is founded on facts and figures, we shall present some proofs from official sources, to show that the Catholic Church establishment is the least expensive of any to the people where it prevails. France is the most populous Catholic nation of Europe. Out of a total population of 36,000,000, only about 1,000,-000 are Protestants and 100,000 Jews. The Catholic Church is the Church of the State, but all other denominations are allowed full liberty to worship as they choose, and the Protestants and Jews have allowances from the State. To the Protestants a yearly sum of §600,000, or in the ratio of sixty cents per capita of all of that faith, is paid from the public treasury; while to the 34,000,000 of Catholics the Church allowance is §16,000,000, or less than fifty cents per capita. Contrasted with Catholic France is Protestant England, whose Established Church draws the yearly sum of §40,000,000, and whose population, denominationally, is stated as follows; Established Church, 12,700,000; other Protestant sects, 8,000,000; Catholics, 2,500,000; Jews and others, 600,000. The per capita to the Established Church is above §3, and, while Catholic France allows a greater per capita to her Protestant residents than to her Catholic population, Protestant England allows nothing whatever to the Catholic Church there. And the ratio of Catholics in England is as 1 to 7, while the ratio of Protestants to Catholics in France is only 1 to 34. Austria is the next most populous Catholic nation of Europe. Sixty-five per cent, of her total population is Catholic, only ten per cent. Protestant. Freedom of religious worship is guaranteed to all, and the Church establishment is rated at less than thirty cents per capita yearly.
In Protestant Germany, where the Catholic population is, in round numbers, 15,000,000, and the Protestant 25,000,-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
000, the property of the Catholic Church has been violently seized under Bismark’s rule, and the per capita charge for - the support of the State religion is above fifty cents yearly-
In Italy, Spain, Portugal and Belgium, with almost an entirely Catholic population in each, the per capita cost of the Church establishment is less than 35 cents per annum. There is toleration for all the Protestant sects in each of these nations. On the other hand, we have Denmark, Norway and Sweden, which are almost exclusively Protestant, and the per capita Church tax in each is about 47 cents per year. In Switzerland the Protestant population is 1,600,000, against 1,000,000 Catholics, and the Government is practically Protestant. Jesuits are rigorously excluded from the State. The per capita Protestant tax is 43 cents. To show, in detailed form, the wide difference there is between the allowance to the Catholic Church establishment in Catholic nations, and that to the Protestant establishment in Protestant countries, we will again contrast England and France, and give, incidentally, Belgium and Germany. In France, there are seventeen Archbishops, whose allowance is §4,000 per annum; nineteen Bishops, §3,000 each; one hundred and ninety-two Vicar-Generals, §300; seven hundred and thirty-two canons, §320; three-thousand five hundred and thirty-one cures, §300; thirty-one thousand five hundred and sixty-nine curates, from §100 down to §60. Only the Archbishops and Bishops are provided with residences; the Vicar-Generals, and all other grades below, have to provide their own lodging out of their very scanty allowance. In England, the Archbishop of Canterbury receives a yearly sum of §75,000; the Archbishop of York, §50,000; the Bishop of Durham, §30,000; of Winchester, §35,0000; of Ely, §27,500; of Bath and Wells, of Exeter, of Lincoln, of Oxford, of Rochester, of Salisbury, and of Gloucester, and Bristol, each §25,000; and following these, are seven Bishops, whose salary is each §22,500 : six of §20,000 each; and two, of §10,000 each. Next follow the deans, thirty in number, with salaries from §15,000 down to §3,500; then one hundred and twentyseven cannons, at from §5,000 to §1,750; the seventy-one Archdeacons, at from §4,275 to §500; the parochial clergy, and so on down to the stipendiary curates and rural deans, to a total of about 23,000 persons, who receive all the-way from §5,000 to §200 per year. And to all but the poorest and lowest of these grades there is provided either palace or parsonage or lodgings, free of cost. The reader cannot fail to observe the difference there is between the meagre allowance of the Catholic Prelates of highest rank in France and the enormous salaries of the dignitaries of the English Church, and also how much better the English clergy are paid than the priesthood of France. The Catholic Prelates of Germany and Belgium fare similarly, as also do the clergy. The Archbishop of Breslau receives only §8,500 per year, and the Bishops §5,500 each. In Belgium the Archbishop is allowed §4,200 per annum; -the live Bishops §3,200 each, the canons each §400, and the priests from §150 all the way down to §40. We have presented facts and figures enough to substantiate our position. But, if further testimony w’ere required, we have not to go beyond our own country to obtain it. The amount received by His Eminence the Cardinal Archbishop of New York is actually less than half of that which is paid as regular salary to many of the Protestant clergymen, and there are scores of “pulpit orators,” such as Talmage, Beecher, Chapin, and Frothingham, whose pay is from five to ten times more than the allowance of the Cath
olic Prelates; while the ordinary salary of the clergy of the Protestant denominations is far in excess of the yearly sums allowed to the Catholic priesthood. The truth is, that there are none of the dignitaries or clergymen of any of the various sects who receive so little from their congregations as do those of the Catholic Church in this country; and the same remark will hold good in respect to the missionary service in all parts of the world. But we have shown enough to prove all that we aimed to, and will here rest.
Scientific Notes.
—The number of specimens in the Herbarium of the Royal Gardens at Kew, reckoning as one all the individuals of the same plant from the same locality, were estimated by Sir Joseph Hooker, in his Report for 1870, as considerably above a million.
—The preliminary work for the draining of the Zuyder Zee is being accomplished with energy. It is estimated that the entire enterprise will occupy sixteen years, and cost §67,000,000. The lands rescued from the sea are expected to return more than the sum expended to drain them.
—It is stated in the Naturalist that on the 30th of July last, one of the civil-engineers of the Central Pacific Railroad Company came across a rattlesnake which was en-tirely jet black, not a shade of white appearing even on the under parts. The snake had ten rattles, and measured three feet in length.
—Extraordinary variations of temperature have been noted by Prof. Palmieri at the Vesuvius Observatory during the past year. An unprecedented degree of heat, 31 deg. C., has been reached; and a greater degree of cold,— 7 deg. C., than has been observed since the Observatory was established, twenty-five years ago.
—A note is made in Hardwicke's Scierce Gossip of the growth of three perfect leaves from the summit of a flowerspike of the Plantain, Plantago lancedlata. This transformation of bracts into leaves shows that the former are but modified forms of the latter, and. under certain circumstances revert to their original condition.
—The sea-route to Siberia, opened to commerce by Prof. Nordenskjold, has been traversed by several vessels during the past season. The steamer Frazer, which left Bremen for the Yenesei, July 28, returned to Hamerfest, Sept. 24th. Sept. 16, a vessel arrived at Vardoe after a passage of twenty-one days from the mouth of the Yenesei.
. —As pines and firs have been discovered to have a greater effect than other trees in influencing the rainfall and increasing the general humidity of the atmosphere, M. Fan-tral, of the French Academy, has proposed the planting of these trees in Algeria. The same fact may possibly be utilized with advantage on some of the western lands in this country.
—Mr. E. W. Nelson records in bis recent “ Catalogue of the Birds of Northeastern Illinois” 316 species, and several additional varieties as occurring in Cook and Lake Counties. This is a larger number than has been noted in any other locality of equal extent in the United States. Mr. Nelson mentions, among the interesting facts contained in the Catalogue, the discovery of nests of the gnu-bird, or nightheron, on the ground in the Calumet marshes. The nests were situated in dense patches of wild rice.
—There is a fair chance that we will all become good weather-prophets in time. The Signal Service observers regularly predict the weather for the next day from the sunset, and the correctness of these predictions is carefully noted. In June, at 97 stations, there were 74 doubtful predictions, 670 failures, and 2,162 verifications, so that the latter amounted to 76.3 per cent. In July, at 95 stations • 52 doubtful predictions were reported, 558 were failures, and 2,309 were verified, the latter being 805 per cent. Most people will be satisfied with this average of verifications, and if the methods employed are capable of common use it would be worth while to have them made known. It is hardly probable, however, that ordinary folk
134	THE K01RE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
could attain the same degree of accuracy. Efficient observation is hardly ever the result of following fixed and simple rules. But if the signal service is kept up long enough, there is little doubt that some way will be found to make its methods enter into the public education, and through its influence the American people may slowly become intelligent observers of the weather.
—Among the odd inquiries of scientific men is an attempt by Mariotti to ascertain how fast the ancient orators, Greek and Boman, talked. Still it would be quite possible to arrive at a conclusion, for the length of some of their speeches was regulated by the clepsydra. It is suggested that a study of the speakers in the existing Greek Parliament might be of use in determining the rate of flow of classic eloquence. Of course the invention of phonography fixes very exactly the rate of enunciation of living orators. Mariotti rates some of his countrymen as follows: De Foresta, 60 words per minute; Massimo d’Azeglio, 90; Gioberti, 100; Ratazzi, 150; Mameli, 180; and Cordova, who was quickest of all, could form 210 words in a minute. But too rapid speaking is a defect in an orator, and it is observed that the rapid talkers are more admired than agreed with, for the reason that the mind requires a certain time for the reception of the ideas, and the tongue of a rapid speaker may outrun the hearers’ capacity for assimilation. As to the absolute possible speed of enunciation, Mariotti says that an Italian orator can pronounce as many as 300 words a minute.
Art, Music and Literature.
—A “Life of Sir Robert Walpole,” by A. C. Ewald, will be published this fall.
—Mrs. S. M. B. Piatt is to print a volume of “ Poems in Company with Children.”
—MM. D’Ennery and Cormon have just finished a new five-act drama called “ Une Cause Celebre.”
—More than 200 towns in France possess each a library numbering from 10,000 to 20,000 volumes.
—Richard Wagner is at Bayreuth, and busy on a new work taken from the old heroic legends of Germany.
—A cheap illustrated edition of Schiller, with designs by eminent German artists, will soon appear at Stuttgart.
—At Budapest several learned men are about to propose an encyclopedia which shall be chiefly Hungarian in character.	’
—Hon. W. E. Gladstone is preparing a “Primer of Homer” for the series of literature primers edited by J. R. Green.
—M. Offenbach has delivered the first act of his new opera comique, “Les Contes d’Hoffmann,” to the manager of the Lyrique.
—Dr. Audsen Wood, of Edinburgh, who translated Schiller’s “ Don Carlos,” has just completed a translation of Lessing’s “ Nathan the Wise.”
—The first volume of Jefferson Davis’ book will be ready early in November. The second volume, which is the most “ spicy,” will speedily follow.
—The fourth'volume of Ambros’ “History of Music” has been published at Vienna. It deals with the times of Palestrina and the origin of the opera.
—A forthcoming volume of Bohn’s library will be "Correspondence between Goethe and Schiller from 1794 to 1805,” translated by Miss Dora Schmitz.
—A special catalogue of the engraved work of Hans Sebald Beham is being compiled by Mr. Loftie. Beham was one of the most skilled of the Little Masters of Germany.
—“The Annals of Sennacherib,” which were nearly completed by the late George Smith, will be brought out this year, under the direction of a well-known English Assy-riologist.
—A “ Richard Wagner Lexicon ” is being prepared by Herr Kastner, of Vienna. It will give a complete catalogue of Herr Wagner’s works, and of the various writings and newspaper articles about them.
—A Hungarian paper states that the Abbe Franz Liszt
has composed a new opera. Dr. Liszt will return to Pesili early next month to resume the duties of Principal of the new Academy of Music founded last year.
—A son of Henry Wieniawski, the celebrated violinist, is now in Boston, and intends to remain in that city some time. He is said to be, himself, a fine violinist, and will probably appear in concert at an early date.
—Jansen, McClurg & Co., Chicago, have in press a new work by Prof. E. Whipple, entitled “Analysis of Animals, or a Method of Teaching Zoology,” which is likely to produce a great change in natural history teaching.
—A new book club, called the Scottish Literary Club, has been instituted for the purpose of reprinting rare, curious, and remarkable works pertaining to Scotland. Two works of Adam Petrie will be the first issue.
—A late number of Nature (London), in a review of “Jordan’s Manual of the Vertebrates of the United States,” says, “A glance through it makes us feel how useful a similar one on the English vertebrates would prove to students and collectors.” .	-
—The Municipal Council of Paris appropriates annually §14,000 toward the production of works bearing on the history of Paris, and in consequence chiefly of this aid three new volumes of the “ Histoire Generale de Paris ” will shortly be published.
—The workmen engaged in repairing the front of the Florence Cathedral recently, in removing a thick coating of plaster at one . of the corners of the building, made the discovery of seven marble statues, pronounced by connoisseurs to be of the best period of Greek art.
—M. Victor Schoelcher, a French Senator, is making a catalogue of engravers from the beginning of the art. It is estimated that the list will include about 12,000 in all. M. Schoelcher has in his own collection specimens of the work of 8,000, and is constantly adding to the number.
—Wagner, having abandoned all hopes of another play at Bayreuth, is going to establish a conservatory there to be opened on the 1st of January. The course is to occupy nine months a year for six years. It is proposed to give gratuitous .instruction, but the student will have to compete for admission after studying at an elementary school.
—An album of photographic reproductions of Heinrich Aldegrever’s ornamental designs for goldsmith’s work, book-decoration, and other work, has lately been published at Munich. Aldegrever belonged to the class of “ Little Masters” of Germany, so called because their work, though good, was inferior to that of Albrecht Durer and the few great masters of the art of engraving.
—The first, for the current season, of the monthly artreceptions of the Union League Club was held in New York on the evening of the 12th of October. Fifty paintings and five or six crayon and pen-and-ink pictures adorned the gallery of the Club. The exhibition was smaller than usual, as many members of the Society have not yet returned from their summer-studies, and their names were missing from the list of contributors.
—M. C. Doussault, a French architect, has presented a paper to the Academie des Inscriptions, in which he relates a conversation held by him in 1847 with M. Brest, the Consul at Milo at the time of the discovery of the famous Venus of Milo. According to his statement, M. Brest affirmed that, at the first raising of the Venus, he saw the two arms lying on the ground, and tried to fit them to the statue. One of the hands held an apple painted green, and the other a portion of drapery. This report of a conversation occurring thirty years ago will undoubtedly be subjected to a searching investigation.
—A catalogue of the etchings of Legros, Slade Professor of Art at the University of London, has recently been published at Paris. The works range over a period of twenty-two years,—the earliest being executed before etching had become a popular art. In the opinion of a critic in the Academy, it is the conception that dominates in Legros’ etchings,—the execution being uncertain, now excellent, and new halting and incomplete. Hamerton coincides in this judgment, and yet says of Legros: “The mental qualities of this artist’s work are always nobly serious, and must seem strangely so to those who believe in the universa
7
I
I
I
I 1
J
i!
*
*1
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	133
levity of the French temperament.” La Mort du Vagabond-, La Mort et le Bucheron, and La Savant Endormi are regarded as among the finest examples of M- Legros’ power as an etcher.
Books and Periodicals.
—The November number of The Catholic World opens with a lively article on the “ Free-Religionists ” and their proceedings at their late meeting in Boston. We have a second “ Glance at the Indian Question,” from a man who shows that he. is thoroughly at home in his subject. “ The Two Prophets of Mormonism ” is at once a history of the rise, growth, and development of Mormonism up to its present revolting stage, and at the same time an analysis of the whole movement. In the “ God of Advanced Science” the “advanced” scientists receive very rough handling in the person of one of their leading representatives in this country—Professor Youmans. A very interesting paper is that on Father Marquette and the recent discovery of his remains. “ Charles Lever at Home ” is a bit of personal reminiscence of the favorite Irish novelist. “ St. James of Compostella” gives a pleasing account of the shrine of the Spanish patron Saint and its history. “A Sweet Revenge” is a lively bit of story-writing. “ALegend of Dieppe ” is well told. The poetry is good. In the literary criticisms such works as Cardinal Manning’s Miscellanies and Dr. Schaff’s Creeds of Christendom are treated as only thoroughly competent hands and trained minds can treat them.
New Music.
—We have received from J. Fischer & Bro., 226 East4th St., New York city, Vier Marianische Antiphonen, and “ New Collection of Pieces for Benediction,” which we will notice in a future number. In the last named there are fourteen hymns, the music of which is excellent.
—“Old Unkel Dan” is the title of an excellent new song, by Horace Dunmars. This song is one of the sweetest negro melodies ever put before the music loving public. Price, 40 cents per copy. The title-page is illustrated, and contains a fine view of a Southern plantation scene—can be obtained from any large music dealer, or from the publisher, F. W. Helmick, No. 50 West Fourth Street, Cincinnati, O.
Cantate Domino. A Collection of Masses, Vespers, Hymns, Motetts, and a variety of miscellaneous pieces for the Offertory, Benediction, Elevation, and the Principal Festivals of the Catholic Church. Enthaltend die Musik-Beilagen filr den ersten, zweiten und dritten Jahrgang der “Cjecilia” nebst mehreren anderen iicht kirchlichen Compositionen. Price, S2.50. Published by J. Fischer & Bro., 226 East Fourth Street, New York.
This collection of music is worthy the consideration of musicians. Among the most notable composers whose works figure in the volume, are Dr. Witt, Greith, Stehle, Nairn, Singenberger and others connected with the Cecilia Society. This Society is doing much good both in Germany and the United States, and deserves the encouragement which it has received from the hierarchy of both countries. It is doing a noble work, aiming, as it does at the restoration of the music'suited to the Liturgy of the Church. In the present collection of music we find some six or seven Masses, and a large number of hymns for Vespers, Ave Marias, hymns for Benediction, etc., to which no objection can be made. We are confident that the work will have a large sale and do much to introduce Cecilian, and, after that, Gregorian music into our churches.
Missa Solemnis et Missa pro Defunctis uti in Gradual!
Romano et Ordinario Misste, ab Illustri Domino Frederico Pustet, 8. Sedis Apost. Typographo,—“5u& Auspiciis SS. D. N. Pio PP. IX., Curante Saerorum Bit. Cong.,—Ratisbonce, (Novo Eboraei, Cincinnatii, Nuper Editis Habentur, Quas in Harmonicum Concentum a se Redactas cum Ejusdem Ty-pographi Permissu Evulgavit Quasque Reverendissimo et 11-lustrissimo Domino Ruperto Selden bush, D. D., O. 8. B., Episcopo Maliensi in part, infid., et Vicdrio Apost. Minnesota
Septemtrionalis dedicavit quam devotissime P. Ignatius Trueg, O. 8. B., Magister Chori, et Societatis S. Gregorii Propraesespro temp. Cum permissu superiorum. Opus I. “Cantare. . non pnesumat, nisi qui potest ipsum offieium implere, ut ledificsen-tur audientes.”—Regula 8. Beneuicti. St. Vincenti!, Pa.: 1877. Published by the Author, P. Ignatius Trueg, 0. S. B., St. Vincent’s Abbey, Beatty P. O., Pennsylvania.
It was only a few weeks ago that we noticed in terms of praise Opus list the series of harmonized Gregorian Masses in course of publication by the Rev. Benedictine Fathers of St. Vincent’s Abbey, Pa. The Masses contained in Opus I are equally worthy of praise. The Missa Solemnis, or, as it is better known, de Angelis, is the grandest and best of the Gregorian series, and this harmonized edition will be welcomed by all lovers of true ecclesiastical music. The Missa pro Bfundis'—vie mean the Plain Chant Mass of Requiem unharmonized—is more solemnly, grandly and mournfully beautiful than any Requiem Mass written by Mozart, Verdi, or other composers, no matter how celebrated they may be. But beautiful as the Plain Chant Requiem is, this beauty is intensified when to its solemn strains the aid of harmony is brought in. Father Trueg has executed his work in a manner highly meritorious, and we feel sure that the Catholic public will appreciate it.
—Professor Everett was entertained at a public dinner before leaving Boston for England to assume the duties of minister at the English Court. The celebrated Judge Storey, who was present on the occasion, gave as a sentiment—“Genius is sure to be recognized where Ever-ett goes.” Everett gratefully responded with another sentiment, “Law, equity, and jurisprudence; no efforts can raise them above one Storey.”
—The power of discovering a comic point, of apprecia, ting a humorous hit, and enjoying the fun of a droll position-is a gift not to be despised. It is not a vain, silly or unbecoming thing, assome moping owlsand grave dullards suppose. It is, indeed, like all human faculties, liable to abuse, and capable of being perverted to evil: but it is essentially a good gift, and ought to be turned to the good account of which it is susceptible, and to manifest itself in the increase of the cheerfulness, the happiness and the affection of social and family life. We might go further; we might say, and adduce much evidence to support the proposition, that as humor is discerned only by those who can, to some extent, catch the feeling and the spirit of the humorist, so the sense of discernment of humor is one phase or department of sympathy, and thus the springs of mirthfulness and of kindness are not far apart; and many a home, amid the alternations of joy and sorrow that darken or brighten life’s course, has found an ever fresh gladness in the comic vein and jocund humor of some mirthful member of the family. Many of the best men—the best in the highest sense of the term—with the best heads, and the best hearts, have been men who thoroughly appreciated and highly enjoyed true humor.—Ex.	.
—The water which drowns us, a fluent stream, can be walked upon as ice. The bullet which, when fired from a gun, carries death, will be harmless if ground to the dust before fired. The crystallized part of the oil of roses, so grateful in its fragrance—a solid at ordinary temperatures, though readily volatile—is a compound substance, containing exactly the same elements, and in exactly the same proportions, as the gas with which we light our streets. The tea which we daily drink with benefit and pleasure produces palpitation, nervous trembling, and even paralysis, if taken to excess; yet the peculiar organic element called theine, to which tea owes its qualities, may be taken by itself, without any appreciable effect. The water which allays our burning thirst augments it when congealed into snow; so that Captain Ross declares the natives of the Arctic regions “ prefer enduring the utmost extremity of thirst, rathel than attempt to remove it by eating snow.” Yet if the snow be melted, it becomes drinkable water. Nevertheless, re-though if melted before entering the mouth, it assuages, th thirst like other water, when melted in the mouth it has the opposite effect. To render this paradox more striking we only have to remember that ice, which melts more slowly in the mouth, is very inefficient for allaying thirst.—Ex,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

jSTotrc Dame, October 27, 1877.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame Ind., and of others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the eleventh year of its existence, greatly improved, and with a larger circulation than at the commencement of any former year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
Choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Lit erary Gossip of the day.	’
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct
A weekly digest of the news at St Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it: parents should take it: and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Circulating Library.
We do not know whether it is necessary to call the attention of the students to the Lemonnier Circulating Library, for we believe that it is patronized by all the students in whom the love of study shows itself; yet we cannot but recommend it to those few students who are strangers to it.
The good accomplished by the Circulating Library is indeed great It is necessary for students to have other reading than that contained in their text-books. It is of no use to argue that if the student will confine himself to a thorough study of the books used in class, he will have as much as he can do. The assertion may be true; for our part we will not deny it But the fact that, the textbooks are enough to occupy all a student’s time, and making him attend to them exclusively, are two entirely different things. The student must read, and will read, other books. He feels that he must ease his mind after the study of the day or the week, and if there be no circulating library from which he can procure books he will naturally procure books of his own, and these, since there is no one to direct his reading, the books which he may procure, are not always the best. It is surprising what a number of so-called dime novels are read by young men of education! We have seen, not here but elsewhere, young men well read in Greek and Latin literature occupying their leisure time in this worthless reading. We are happy to state that all such books have been banished from the College, and we believe few, if any, are smuggled in; and the fact that works of this sort are kept out we believe is due in a great measure to our excellent Circulating Library, which furnishes the best of reading to its patrons. It is, then, but right that everyone should patronize this Library, and enable it to advance in the good which it is accomplishing.
On the shelves of the Library may be found good historical, biographical, literary, scientific, art and musical works. If, however, the patron desires works of a lighter nature he may find works of fiction which are classic in style and moral in tone. When, then, the collection of works is so varied that the historical, scientific or classical student may select those works which are to his taste and give him the imformation he desires, it were foolishness in him to neglect it. The annual subscription is very small in amount, so that if a member takes from the shelves not more than two books during the whole year, he would get the full value of his subscription. But he has the use of the books during the whole year, and thus gets more than quadruple the worth of his money.
It would be well if the Library could be made free to all the students. At present, however, it is impossible to make it so. Were there a fund started for the purpose of sustaining the Library, then it could be made free; but there is no such fund, and all additions to the shelves must be made from the money received as subscription from the members. The subscription plan has worked well with the Library so far; beginning with but a small number of books, the Library now contains somewhere near eighteen hundred volumes. And this increase in the number of volumes has been made in the last year or two. We hope that the augmentation may continue, and that in a fewyears instead of eighteen hundred volumes there may be five or six thousand. But in order that such advancement continue it is necessary for the Library to be well patronized.
i
Authority the Support of Society.
Locke, in his Treatise on Civil Government, bases society on the principle of property and individual interest. However strange this foundation is in itself, we are of the opinion that unassisted it would be far from capable of sustaining the grand superstructure which has been raised upon it; and although the notion of a prop naturally suggests the idea of ruin and decay, yet we are forced to admit that society without a support other than that on which it is based would soon become a discordant and corrupt mass.
Nor is if in modern times, when the grand fabric of society has attained such a towering height, that this support first became necessary. Neither does it become less essential as the edifice approaches perfection. This support, which is nothing more nor less than authority, was as necessary to society in its earliest stages as it is at the present time; and it is as important at the present time, and will continue to be, at least so long as human nature remains unchanged, as the very principle on which society is based.
Blackstone remarks that there is nothing which so generally strikes the imagination and engages the affection of mankind as the rights of property. As the chief end and desire of society is to ensure the enjoyment of these rights, we might at first suppose that the principle of property and individual interest would be sufficient to secure its harmonious existence. But unfortunately for the peace of the world it does not contain enough of property to satisfy the. avarice of all its inhabitants. Nay, so powerfully does the right of property engage the affections of mankind, that it may well be doubted whether the possession of the whole earth would be sufficient to satiate the desire of a single individual.
This, in connection with the fact that each member re
l
i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
137
gards his interests as paramount to those of all others, and that many if unrestrained would substitute might for right, is sufficient evidence that society not sustained by authority must soon fall to ruin. It would indeed be a grand triumph for man could society be brought to that utopian state in which fines, penalties and prohibitions would be things superfluous.	’
But as it would be necessary to accomplish a revolution in human nature in order to attain that ideal degree of perfection, it were better for those who interest themselves in the amelioration of society to endeavor to strengthen that support so essential to its existence, and which unfortunately appears daily to grow weaker.
If while authority still holds such a powerful sway over society there can be found persons of sufficient hardihood to make open attempts on those vital principles on which society is based, what may we not expect if that sway be diminished ? If man, with the gallows staring him in the face, will deliberately destroy that which it is the especial province of society to secure, knowing that the penalty attached to that crime is the greatest which it is in the power of man to inflict, will he not grow more desperate in his attacks in the same proportion that the penalty attached to his crime grows less? If the objects of society cannot be fully attained when the punishment is proportional to the offence, is it rational to suppose that the case will be bettered when the penalty is diminished, the opportunities and temptations to commit crime remaining the same ?
Shakespeare says “ you take my house when you do take the prop that sustains my house”: in like manner you take away authority when you take away that which gives it sanction—namely, the punishment which it is in its power to inflict. Although no one that we ever heard of has proposed to dispense entirely with punishment, yet there certainly exists at the present time a tendency to diminish it; and it was this fact that led us to say that authority, the support of society, is daily growing weaker. The notion at present prevailing that imprisonment is as severe a punishment as death, is, we venture to say, a spurious one. Life under any circumstances, especially to those who have no regard for honor, is preferable to death. The parting between the body and the soul is indeed a bitter one, and he that wishes to render a service to society should rather incline to exaggerate than disparage the terrors of execution: for any act which tends to detract from the force of authority, detracts just so much from the security of society.
To suppose that society does, ever did, or ever can prosper without the support of vigorous authority, is to suppose an impossibility. Authority was to society in its infancy what the albumen of the seed is to the germinating plant—namely, that which sustains it while it is endeavoring to take root.
To society in its present state, authority is what the trunk is to the oak of the forest—namely, that by which it is supported in its elevated position, where alone its mem. bers may perform their respective functions, on the proper execution of which depends the welfare of the whole. Remove authority from society, and, like the mighty oak • when its trunk is riven, it will fall prostrate and soon resolve itself into a mass of corruption.	■
—The reading-room will be opened, so we are informed, in a short while. We have not yet been furnished with a list of the papers which will be placed on file in the room.
Personal.
—H. Shephard (Commercial, of ’74,) is at Jerseyville,
—Thos. C. Logan, of ’77, is reading law at Ann Arbor, Mich.
—T. J. Cochrane (Commercial, of ’75,) is doing well in Chicago.
—Rev. F. Duhmig, of Avilla, was a welcome visitor on Tuesday.
—Jno. F. Soule (Commercial, of ’75,) is gold-mining in California.
—Geo. V. Burbridge (Commercial, of ’74,) is in his father’s mill, at Alton, Ill.
—Wm. Gross (Commercial, of ’74,) is in the book and news business, St. Charles, Mo.
—Jno. H. Cooney, of ’76, is with Gilmore & Co., attorneys at law, Washington, D. C.
' —George F. McNulty (Commercial, of ’76,) is reading law with Charles P. Wise, Alton, Ill.
—Mr. Thomas Nelson, of Chicago, was among our welcome visitors last Sunday. We are always glad to see him.
—We have lately had word for the first time in many years of J. A. Hemsteger, of ’57, who we understand is in business at Piqua, Ohio, and doing well.
—We had a pleasant visit on Monday from Rev. Wm. Murphy, of Dayton, Ohio, and Rev. M. O’Reilly, of Valparaiso, Ind. We will be happy to see them often.
—Rev. Michael Zoller, S. J., of St. Mary’s Church, Toledo, Ohio, Rev. A. Oechtering, of Mishawaka, and Rev. J. Oechtering, of Laporte, were at Notre Dame on. Wednesday.	.
—Among the visitors the past week were: Mrs. Rogers and Mrs. Walters, of Mt. Vernon, Ohio; Miss L. Dooley and R. M. Dooley, of’72, of Ogden, Utah; Mr. and Mrs. Ventris, of Chicago; and Henry E. O’Brien, of ’76, and Miss C. O’Brien, of Kewanee, Ill. „
—James H. Ward, of ’73, was married on Thursday evening last to Miss Agnes, St. Clair, in the Holy Name Cathedral, Chicago. Miss St. Clair is a graduate of St. Mary’s Academy. We had an invitation to be present, but our duties here prevented us the pleasure of assisting. We wish the newly-married couple all happiness. May their paths through life be strewn with roses.
—J. J. Gillen, B. S., of ’76, is now at the Troy Seminary, New York, studying for the priesthood. From a letter lately received by a student from him we copy the following in reference to the Scholastic,which he receives every week: “You cannot imagine with what pleasure I read that little visitor from the Hoosier State. How any old student can neglect to subscribe for it is more than I can understand. The locals and personals are especially interesting, but every page is suggestive of ‘ old times.’ ” '
In Memoriam.-
At a meeting of the members of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club of ’75 ’76, the following resolutions were adopted in regard to the death of J. E. Obert:
Whereas God, in His all-seeing Providence, has deemed it wise to take unto Himself our comrade and dear friend, John Edwin Obert, and
Whereas, We, the members of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club of 1875-76 sincerely feel that we have experienced a great loss by the death of our esteemed friend, who was one of our most energetic members, and who was on all oc. casions a worthy representative of our Society, therefore
Be it Resolved, That we hereby extend our heartfelt sympathy to the parents and relatives of the deceased, and that we attend in a body a High Mass to be offered up for the repose-of his soul, and, also,
Be it Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be presented to the parents of the deceased, and that they be published in the Notre Dame Scholastic, the South Bend Herald, and the
leading local papers of Reading, Pennsylvania.
J. P. McHugh,' A. J. Hbrtzog, L. D. Murphy, ' M. J. Regan,
Committee.
138	TEtE NOTRE DAMIJ SCHOLASTIC.
—The following resolutions were passed at the eighth regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association, upon receiving news of the death of James Dore:
Whereas, It has pleased our Almighty Father to remove from us our dear friend and fellow-member, James Dore, who died recently at Hennepin, Ill., therefore be it
Resolved, That in him we have lost a companion whose amiable and manly disposition, whose intelligence and uprightness of character, made his friendship most precious to our hearts and his example most valuable to every member of our Society. It is with a meloncholy pleasure that we now recall to mind his never-failing attention to duty; his active interest in all the exercises of our Society; his assiduity in the study of literature, science, and history; his exemplary conduct in all places,—in a word, the uniform excellence of his life as a Chris tian student.
Resolved, That we extend ou rheartfelt sympathy to his bereaved relatives and friends, from ■whom an All-wise Providence has seen fit to withdraw the fast maturing promise of a wise and virtuous manhood. They have lost him, but Heaven has won him. So bright a spirit was not destined to have the lustre of its pinions soiled by contact with the dust and toil of the earth. In the death of the young there is this consolation, that they go uncontaminated back to the hands of their Maker, and this must be the sweet solace of the parents and friends of our late companion.
Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon the records of the Society, and that a copy be sent to the relatives of the deceased, to the Notre Dame Scholastic, the Hennepin papers, and to the Chicago Times.
J. A. Burger, F. C. Cavanaugh, )
\V. A. Widdicombe, G.E. Sugg, >Committee.
J. Healy,	C. J. Clarke, )
Local Items.
—The first musical soiree will be given sometime in November.
—To-morrow is the anniversary of the death of Rev. A. Lemonnier.
—AH the paintings in the western transept of the Church are finished.
—We hear a rumor to the effect that the anti-shaving mob is to be reorganized.
—Five years ago, on the first of November, the Library Association was organized.
—We would request our itemizers to give us their items on Wednesdays, if possible.
—The lake fleet will not go into winter quarters before the latter part of November.
—After a week of rain and drizzle and cold, the sun last Monday had a veiy cheerful look.
—Next Thursday is the Feast of all Saints, and the Friday after is the Feast of All Souls.
—B. Peter transplanted about one hundred and fifty beautiful little white maples last Monday.
—The Juniors still keep up their weekly nutting expeditions, and they get plenty to bring home.
—Matins and Lauds of the Office of the Dead will be chanted at 8 o’clock a. m. on All Souls’ Day.
—A. biological laboratory for the use of the Classes of Natural History is in the course of erection.
—The monthly conference took place on Wednesday, at which a number of excellent papers were read.
—Mrs. Rhodius, of Indianapolis, has presented to the new Church one of the stained-glass windows.
—There have been a great number of scrub games of foot-ball, baseball, etc., played during the past week.
—The Librarian of the College Library returns thanks to Mr. Wm. Dechant for a number of books given by him to the Library.
—The Curator of the Museum returns thanks to Rev. Father Roche for a number of beautiful specimens brought from Eastern Bengal.
—On the 21st inst.the Minims were out nutting, and were so successful as to find more nuts than they were able to carry back with them.
—A very exciting game of foot-ball was played on Wednesday morning. Two out of the three games were won by the crowd led by Mr. J. A Burger.
—On account of next Thursday being All Saints’ Day the weekly meeting of the Faculty will be held on Tuesday afternoon, at the usual time and place.
—On account of next Thursday being All Saints’, the weekly meeting of the Faculty will be held on Tuesday afternoon, at the usual hour and place.
—The Minims are an industrious little nation. Not a minute is lost either in study-hall or play-ground. Their Campus looks lively during recreation.
—Among the ablest exponents of Catholic thought and Catholic faith stands the Catholic Review, of Brooklyn and New York city. It is a paper well worth subscribing for.
—We hope that all who are to take part in the first musical soiree will acquit themselves with more than ordinary edat; but this can only be done after much practice.
—The first lecture of the regular course was delivered on Thursday eveing by Very Rev. President Corby. As we go to press at an early hour we postpone a report of it until next week.
—One of the very best of our exchanges is the Catholic Standard of Philadelphia. We look out for the Standard every week, knowing that we will certainly find in it the very best of reading.
—The singing of the children at Vespers in St. Patrick’s Church is beautiful, and as a consequence the number of people attending this afternoon service of the Church is much larger than had been the case.
—The University Baseball Club defeated the Olympics on the 25 th by a score of 19 to 17. The chief feature of the game was the splendid fly-catches made by O. Rettig, the right fielder of the University Club.
—The 7th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopa-trian Association was held on the 21st inst. At this meeting the following delivered declamations: J. McCarthy, K. Scanlan, L. Sievers, E. S. Walters, F. Pleins, and A. Abrahams.
—There will be a sacred concert in St. Patrick’s Church, South Bend, on the first of November, on the occasion of the using a new organ. There will be considerable local talent brought into requisition, and the concert will undoubtedly be successful.
—The Quicksteps’ team during the present session is as follows: Nelson,catcher; McDevitt,pitcher; Scanlan,shortstop; Seeger, first-base; Bushey, second-base; Lambin, third-base; Herrick, left-field; Rhodius, centre-field; and J. Inderrieden, right-field.
—The third regular meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary took place on the 21st. Master G-. Sugg read a sketch of the “Life of St. Bernard,” and Master G. Donnelly read a short history of the Scapular.
—The first meeting of the Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary, of the Senior Department, was held on Wednesday evening. The following officers were elected: President, John G. Ewing; Vice-President, A. J. Hertzog; Secretary,?. J. Cooney; Treasurer, P. W. Mat-timore; Censor, L Evers.
—The 8th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held on the 23rd inst. At this meeting Mr. G. Cochrane was elected a member of the Association. Declamations were delivered by Messrs. A. Hatt, M. Burns, A. Sievers, F. Cavanaugh, and A. Burger. Essays were read by A. Widdicombe and C. Clarke.
—The Artistic Drawing pupils since the opening of the session have accomplished a great deal. Among those who have been the most industrious and shown marked improvement are V. McKinnon, E. Gramling, Arthur Hatt. G. Ittenbach, J. Ittenbach, R. Pleins and J. Carrer. A. K. Schmidt has just completed a beautiful fruit-piece in water-colors.
—The St. Cecilia Philomathean Standard was begun for the scholastic year of 1877-78 on the 21st. The following officers of the organization by which the paper is published were elected: Vice-President, A. J. Burger; Record-

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	139
ing Secretary, J. L. Healy; Corresponding Secretary, F. W. Cavanaugh; Treasurer, W. A. Widdicombe; 1st Censor, G. F. Sugg: 2d Censor, G. Cassidy; Sergeant-at-arms, C. J. Clarke.
—We have received a long account of a trip to Bertrand made by a large party of Juniors under Bro. Leander. Owing to lateness in receiving it we condense it, and state that on Wednesday the trip was made, to the delight of all participating. It is said that the large crowd visiting would have surprised the villagers, were it not that the old man had that day hitched up his team and taken the family to Niles.
—The ladies who visited Notre Dame one evening last week for the purpose of viewing the moon and stars through the large telescope desire to tender thanks to Rev. Father Kirsch, who entertained them in Science Hall; Prof. T. E. Howard, who so kindly accompanied the party and was instrumental in procuring the entertainment; Mr. Clarke (one of the students), who discoursed so much fine music on that occasion, and to other members of the institution who aided in making the visit a pleasant one.—South Bend Tribune.
—The eighth regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was held Sunday evening, Oct. 21. Messrs. Nodler and Houck were elected to membership. Messrs. Fitzgerald, Walters, Claggett, and Williams read essays. Messrs. Whitmer and Stuart delivered declamations. The President then appointed Messrs. Keller, Barry, Luther, and Fischel for essays; Messrs. McMullen, Ginz, and Nodler for declamations. The Society resolved to send a vote of thanks to D. J. Clarke for his kindness in sending it the Catholic Columbian.
—The singing of Missa de Angelis last Sunday gave evidence of marked improvement, and under their efficient and able teacher the young choral ists will no doubt soon bring the singing in church to a high state of excellence. A little more attention to pronouncing the words distinctly, also to accenting properly, might be suggested. The time is still a little slow. Father Trueg, 0. S. B., in his late edition of this Mass gives the time for the Gloria as 3 minutes, the Credo 4.30. The Credo on Sunday last took only 5.30; which, considering the distance between the two choirs, by which some time is lost, brought it very near the standard.
—Many, it would seem, are making inquiries for the new and much improved system of German penmanship by Bro. Philip, C. S. G, now being prepared by the publishing house of Pustet & Co., New York and Cincinnati. The first seven books of the series are now printed, but will not be ready for delivery before a week or two. The Eighth No.—the last of the series—has lately had the finishing touches and been sent to the publisher. From the advance sheets which we have seen we can safely say that nothing equal to this series of German penmanship books are to be found either in this country or in Europe, and we predict for them a great success.
—Next Sunday the Hissa de Angelis will be sung, and St. Casimir’s hymn, “Omni die,” after Mass. At Vespers the psalms are Dixit Dominus, page 1 of the Vesperal; Lau-date pueri, page 2; Credidi, page 17; In Convertendo, page 4; and Domine, probasti. The hymn is Exultet, page 36. On the Feast of All Saints the Mass sung will be the Alissa Regia, page 33 of the Kyriale; after Mass, the Te Deum, page 9 of the hymn-book. The Vespers for All Saints may be found on page 214 of the Vesperal. After the Vespers of the Feast, Vespers of the Dead are chanted. We would advise all who sing to make a note of these, so that they may have no delay or difficulty when the time comes. '
—The 6th and 7th regular meetings of the Thespian Association were held on the 10th and 22d of October respectively. At these meetings the following were elected members: Messrs. Coleman, Dechant, McEniry, Montgomery, and Arnold. After this a vote of thanks was tendered to Rev. Father Kelly, Prof. J. F. Edwards, Bros. Theodore, John Chrysostom, Simon, and Crispinian for their many kind favors. The President, among his other remarks, said that he was glad to see that no one misbehaved at the Entertainment, and that On the following day all went to work like men, and had their lessons as well as usual. From what has been seen of the Thespians, they claim
their Society will be the Society of 1877-78 as it has been of former years.
—For the benefit of our younger readers we give the following squib, clipped from a newspaper, to show them what freaks improper punctuation or none at all may sometimes occasion. The art of punctuation should be as strictly attended to as that of writing, a fact which beginners should bear in mind; and strict attention to this point, heretofore so much neglected, will prevent many a blunder. The writer of the following says he actually saw what he describes, and anyone may see the same thing every day: I saw a pigeon making bread; I saw a girl composed of thread; I saw a towel one mile square; I saw a meadow in the air; I saw a rocket walk a mile; I saw a pony make a file; I saw a blacksmith in a box; I.saw ah orange kill an ox; I saw a butcher made of steel; I saw a pen-knife dance a reel; I saw a sailor twelve feet high; I saw a ladder in a pie; I saw an apple flyaway; I saw a sparrow making hay; I saw a farmer like a dog; I saw a puppy mixing grog; I saw three men who saw these too; and will confirm what I tell you. To read the foregoing intelligibly just take away the semi-colon and put it after the first noun in each clause.
—Why is it that so many persons continue to throw their waste-paper and trash around the printing-office? We spoke of it sometime ago, but the cry is still “It comes,” —and apparently from all quarters. There is any amount of waste-paper and rubbish of all sorts, in piles here and there; and when a windy day comes it would seem as if these scraps of paper—brown paper, white paper, and blue paper—red paper, green paper and black paper,—in fact all kinds and varieties of paper, had been touched by a magic wand and transformed into elfin sprites that go dancing around the College, around the Infirmary and printing office—now here, now there—jumping, whirling, and dancing all sorts of dances,—fandango, polka, scbottische and mazurka,—round dance, square dance and contra dance— jigs, reels and break downs—to the infinite amusement of the small boys and the disgust of older and more sensible people. Now as to the waste-paper, there is a place for that, and it should be put nowhere else but'there—there and nowhere else—namely in the shed at the side of the printing office. The rubbish, too, can be thrown in a pile behind the steamhouse shed, if no handier place can be found, where it will be out of sight until it can be carted away.
—We hear every day the same complaint about the scarcity of money. There is misery everywhere, and yet, strange to say, means are offered of making money, such as the oldest inhabitant scarcely ever heard of, and they remain unheeded. A simple and easy opportunity of making a living for three months is neglected, as though everybody were in abundance. Last year we offered the round sum of $100 for the head of a single rat, which we designated in terms unmistakable to the public eye. Who ever heard of such a price for such small game? Neither Jerusalem nor Paris, amid the gnawing pangs of famine, in their most pressing need ever 'offered anything like this for the flesh of a rat. But the offer remains in standing neglect; the rat still goes free, unmolested and happy, grows fat and enjoys life apparently much better than many ragged lads that call here for bread day after day. We feel just now as desirous as ever to obtain possession of the same important individual, whose presence disturbs our slumbers. But as times are harder, we reduce our premium for its capture from $100 to $50. Of course it is to be understood that we hereby mean no common vermin—no ordinary rat. Before the money is paid it must be proved to the satisfaction of impartial judges, that we are absolutely in possession of that'important quadruped called by the Greeks hyslatos and by the Latins ultimus, while in English it may be recognized as that which the cobbler threw at his wife.
I •......................... -
—Boswell complained to Johnson that the noise of the company the day before made his head ache. “No, sir, it was not the noise that made your head ache; it was the sense we put into it,” said Johnson. “ Has sense that effect upon the head?” inquired Boswell. “Yes, sir,” was the reply, “ on heads that are not used to it.”
140
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
a;
Roll of Honor.
[In the following list are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
senior department.
E. F. Arnold, W. Arnold, T. Barry, J. Bell, J. Boehm, T. Bar, rett, P. J. Cooney, J. E. Cooney, J.-J. Coleman, B. J. Claggett J. Carroll, W. L. Dechant, E. C. Davenport, J. AL Devine, E. Dempsey, J. G. Ewing, F. C. Ewing, L. J. Evers, L. Eisenman, J. English, J. Fitzgerald, F. Fulkerson, W. C. Farrar, J. Feuer-stein/E, Gramling, A. Ginz, E. Gooley, S. Gooley, A. J. Hertzog, J. J. Houck, W. Hoyte, AL Hogan, L. Horn, J. Hoffman, F. Hoffman, R. Hazlitt, J. 0. Hamilton, A. J. Hettinger. J. Q. Johnson, A W. Johnson. J. P. Kinney, F. Keller, J. Kuebcl, B. Krautzer, J. Kelly, J. J. Kotz, F. C. Luther, P. W. Afattimore, L. D. Afurpny, J. J. Murphy, W. J. Afurphy, J. D. Alontgomery, V. T. AIcKinnon, H. Maguire, J. J. McEniry, M. McCue, P. F. AfcCullough, O. AIcKone, W. Ohlman, T. O’Grady, W. L. Prudhomme, J. L. Perea, E. Poor, J. J. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, M. J. Regan, O. P. Rettig, E. W. Robinson, J. Rogers, T. Summers, G-. Saxinger, J. J. Shugrue, C. L. Stuckey, S. T. Spalding, C. H. Taylor, H. Whitmer, F. Walters.
junior department.
J. Arentz, J. G. Baker, F. W. Bloom, AL H. Bannon, J. A. Burger, H. E. Canoil, J. Carter, F. T. Clarke, W. D. Cannon, F. E. Carroll, G. P. Cassidy, F. Cavanagh, D. S. Coddington, J. Cassard, G. H. Donnelly, R. French, J. W. Guthrie, J. A Gibbons, H. A Gramling, J. L. Healy, A Hamilton, G. Ittenbach, R. E. Keenan, J. R. Kelly, J. Lumley, J. L. Lemarie,* J. D. AfcNellis, W. J. AfcCarthy, R. P. Mayer, F. T. McGrath, A. A. Miller, G. Orr, F. T. Pleins, R. C. Pleins, E. J. Pennington. K. W. Reynold^ A. Reitz, K. L. Scanlan, G. E. Sugg, W. H. Vander Heyden, E. S. Walter, C. F. Walsh.
MINIM department.
G. Rhodius, J. A Scanlan, W. AfcDevitt, G. AL Lambin, M. Herrick, W. A Coghlin, C. Crennen, J. A Seeger, A J. Bushey, O. Farrelly, J. Inderrieden, R. Costello, G. Knight, P. P. Nelson, F. AL Gaffney, A. Coghlin, Jos. Courtney, N. Nelson, Jas. Courtney, A Hartrath, C. Garrick, F. Berry, Jos. Inderrieden, J. Devine, J. McGrath, C. Bushey, L AIcGrath, 8. Bushey, H. Snee, C. Long, C. Crowe, C. Welty.
Class Honors.
—Miss Starr lias left for a short visit to friends in Chicago.
—The last letters received from Mother Superior gave us the pleasing intelligence that she is in good health.
—It is asserted that the composition and penmanship of the letters this session reflect credit upon the young ladies. They appear to have profited by their instructions in a more than ordinary degree.
—On Tuesday, the 23d inst., the Musical Soiree was turned into a supplementary fete, and a poetical expression of gratitude was read by Miss N. McGrath, presenting the “ vocal gems ” of the evening to the Prefect of Discipline, those portions of the programme having been omitted on the 21st.
—On Sunday, 21st inst., the young ladies were granted “ full amnesty’’ in honor of the patronal festival of their Prefect of Discipline. At about 10 A. M. on the 21st inst. the pupils assembled in the study-hall, to congratulate their devoted Prefect. 'A fine address in French was read by . Miss C. Silverthorn, and another in English, full of affection was read by Miss M. Ewing. A charming little poem, “ The Echo,” was also rendered by Miss B. Wilson.
—The instruction to the Children of Mary after Mass at Loretto on Monday morning was in reference to the festival of the day preceding, when the Church celebrated the Festival of the Purity of the Blessed Virgin Mary. The Very Rev. speaker in the most impressive language exhibited the consistency of Holy church in the celebration of this festival, and demonstrated the constant efforts of the faithful, in the use of the Sacraments, from the first to the last, to attain purity. Baptism is the washing away of the original stain; Holy Eucharist is received after purification by Penance, etc., and finally the last Sacrament seeks to apply the unction of grace in remitting the sins to which the various avenues of sense have given rise.
RoH of Honor.

-■Ar.’,:

[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes daring the month past.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
J. Baker, T. Barry, AL Bannon, L. Eisenman, F. Ewing, A. Ginz, J. Healy, F. Hoffman, J. Hoffman, F. Hellman, J. Houck, J. Q. Johnson, A Hettinger, F. Keller, J. Krost, J. Kuebel, J. Lumley, J. Lemarie, E. S. Poor, G. Saxinger, A. Sievers.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this dist are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
Grammar—F. Hoffman, E. Gramling, F. Hellman; Book-keeping—F. Keller, J. Krost, G. Saxinger, F. Hoffman, J. Kue-bel, C. Walsh, J. G. Baker, L. Eisenman, J. Q. Johnson, R. Routledge, F. Hellman, J. J. Houck, H. Whitmer, J. Hoffman, E. W. Robinson, E. S. Poor, AL H. Bannon, K. L. Scanlan, I. Chatterton ; Geography and History—G. Saxinger, T. Nelson, W. Jones, L. Sievers, AL H. Bannon; Arithmetic—J. Johnson A. Sievers; Grammar—AL H. Bannon, F. Hellman, J. J. Kotz; Orthographv —A. Ginz, F. Hellman.
* J. L. Lemarie was omitted through mistake last week.
—A German once met an Irishman on a lonely highway. As they met, each smiled, thinking he knew the other. Pat, on seeing his mistake, remarked, with a look of disappointment, “ Sure, an’ I thought it was you, an you thought it was me, an’ it’s nayther of us.”
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses B. Reynolds, J. Cooney, E. O’Neill, A Piet, A. Henneberry, M. Spier, M. O’Connor, A. Reis-ing.
1st Senior Class—Misses C. Boyce, B. Wilson.
2d Sr. Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, N. Keen an, AL Way, N. McGrath, B. Thompson,
3d Sr. Class—Misses M. Brown, K. Hackett, L. Hoag, AL Wagner, E. Shaw, F. Cregier, M. Halligan, H. Millis, A. Brown, J. Burgert, C. Ortmeyer, M. O’Neil, L. Papin, T. Pleins.
1st Prep. Class—Misses J. and AL Winston, A. Farrell.
2d Prep. Class—Misses M. Whiteside, L. Neu, E. Thomas, E. Miller, A Peak.
honorably mentioned in the junior department.
3d Sr. Class—Alisses A. Kirchner, A. Ewing, A. Gordon.
1st Prep. Class—Misses L. Chilton, A. McGrath, A. Geiser.
2d Prep. Class—Miss J. Kingsbury, AL Lambin.
Jr. Prep. Class—Misses M. Hake, A. McGinnis, L. Fox, L. French, L. Ellis, E. Hackett, M. AIcFadden, F. Sunderland, AI. Lyons.
a
-LANGUAGES.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st Latin Class—Miss J. Cooney.
2d Latin Class—Misses C. Silverthorne, AL Luce, M. Plat-tenburg, O. Franklin, H. Hoag.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
1st French Class—Misses H. Russell, N. AIcGrath, C. Silverthorne, B. Wilson, ,
2d Div.—Alisses J. Burgert, N. Keenan, H. Millis, A. McGrath, M. O’Connor, B. Reynolds.
2d French Class—Misses A. Geiser, L. Kirchner, M. Ewing, I. Fisk, 8. Aloran, A. Ewing, E. Mulligan, J. Cooney.
3d French Class—Misses M. O’Neill, M. Brown, M. Winston, M. Wagner, AL Birch, M.. Whiteside, E. Shaw, A. Dopp, Z. Papin, L. Chilton, M. Casey, M. Deneher, E. Wright, L. Fox, L. French.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	UI
PLAIN SEWING.
Misses B. Thompson, L. Walsh, M. O'Connor, K. Lloyd.
GERMAN.
2d Class—Misses A. Kirchner, M. Usselman, A. Gordon, E. Walsh.
2d Div.—Misses A. Reising, C. Ortmeyer, A. Henneberry, E. O’Neill, K. Barrett, S. Rheinboldt.
3d Class—Miscss M. Way, E. Miller,F . Cregier, S. Hamilton, C. Boyce.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC.
1st Class—Misses B. Wilson and T. Pleins.
3d Div.—Misses A. Geiser and C. Silverthorne.
2d Class—Misses A. Harris, N. Keenan, L. Kirchner.
2d Div.—Misses L. O’Neill, JI. Spier E. Miller.
3d Class—Misses A. Henneberry, H. Buck, M. Whiteside, M. Usselman.
2d Div.—Misses L. Nen, A. Gordon, J. Burgert.
4th Class—Misses M. Brown, A. Kirchner, E. Lange, L. Walsh, H. Millis, N. and A. McGrath.
2d Div.—Misses A. Farrell, P. Gaynor, K. Hackett, A. Morgan.
5th Class—Misses F. Cregier, M. Winston, H. Hoag, B. Anderson, M. Mullen, M. Donahoe.
2d Div.—Misses M. White, M. Cleary, M. Way, K. Reardon, L. Hoag, K. Barrett, B. Thompson, L. M. French, E. Papin, E. Shaw, J. Winston.
6th Class—Misses N. Hackett, A. Ewing, S. Rheinboldt, 0. Franklin, M. Ewing, _C. Boyce, M. Halligan, A. Thomas, L. Schwass, E. Thomas.	.
2d Div.—Misses M. Lambin, I. Fisk, B. Parrott, E. Tighe, M. Casey, A. Brown, E. Wright, F. Brazelton.
7th Class—Misses M. Birch, M. Chilton, A. McGinnis, L. Fox, M. Cox.
8th Class—Misses L. McFarland, L. Ellis, E. Mulligan, J. Kingsbury.
9th Class—Misses M. McFadden, E. Wooten.
Guitar—Miss B. Anderson.
Theoretical Classes doing very well; average notes from 80 to 100.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
2d Class—Misses E. Kirchner, A. Reising, M. Usselman, A. Kirchner.
3d Class—Misses A. Gordon, A. Brown, L. Otto, K. Hackett.
4th Class—Misses J. Winston, M. O’Neill, K. Reordan, S. Rheinboldt, A. Farrell, M. Casey.
5th Class—Misses B. Anderson, M. Mulligan, L. Schwass.
General Class—Misses B. Thompson, B. Parrott, N. Hackett, M. Hake.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING. - HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE '
3d Class—Miss L. Kirchner.	■
4th Class—Miss M. Spier.
5th Class—Misses S. Rheinboldt, N. Davis, T. Whiteside, A. Kirchner, J. Butts, E. Mulligan, L. McFarland, A. Farrell, E. Thomas, L. French, M. Plattenburg.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses J. Burgert, L. Otto, S. Rheinboldt, H. Hoag, M. Way, A. Brown, K. Barrett, B. Thompson, J. and M. Winston, T. Pleins. A, Dopp, C. Ortmeyer, M. Brown, N. McGrath, H. Russel, M. Luce, E. Miller, E. Shaw, H. Millis, F. Brazelton, H. Buck, B. Parrott, M. Mullen, K. Hackett, B. Anderson, L. Keena.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses D. Gordon, A. Morgan, L. Chilton, A. Kirchner, E. Mulligan, A. McGiath, L. McFarland, L. French, M. Lyons, L. Walsh, L. Ellis, F. Fitz, M. Lambin, M. McFadden, A. Geiser, M. Hake, A. Ewing, M. Ivers.
•	PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
3d Class—Miss S. Moran.	_
OIL-PAINTING.
2d Class—Misses P. Gaynor, E. Lange.
3d Class—Misses B. Reynolds, M. O’Connor.
Tablet of Honor
For Neatness, Order, Amiability, and Correct Deportment.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses J. Cooney, A. Harris, A. Henneberry, E. O’Neill, M. Spier, M. O’Connor, A. Reising, B. Reynolds, A. Piet, P. Gaynor, H. Russel, M. Ewing, S. Moran, E. Lange, C. Boyce, B. Wilson, I. Fisk, A. Dopp, N. McGrath, C. Silverthorne, B. Thompson, M. Way, N. Keenan, H. Hoag, M. Casey, S. Hamilton, N. Davis, M. Burch, A. Woodin, L. Kirchner, L. Keena, M. Luce, M. Danaher, K. Barrett, L. Tighe, E. Shaw, F. Cregier, M. Halligan, H. Millis, L. Otto, M. Brown, H. Buck, M. Wagner, T. Pleins, K. Hackett, M. Plattcnbcrg, A; Brown, A. Thomas, L. Walsh, J. ’ Burgert, K. Lloyd, L. Hoag, C. Ortmeyer, M. O’Neill, L. Schwass,
B. Parrott, B. Anderson, F. Brazelton, L. Papin, K. Reordan, M. and J. Winston, S. Rheinboldt, M. Usselman, N. White, M. Hayes, M. Mullen.M. Cleary, A. Farrell, O. Franklin, E. Wright, M. Whiteside, E. Miller, E. Thomas, A. Peak, L. Neu, J. Barnes.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses M. Mulligan, A. Ewing, D. Gordon, A. Morgan, A. Kirchner, L. Chilton, A. McGrath, A. Geiser, J. Kingsbury, M. Lambin, L. Ellis, N. Hackett, L. Fox, M. McFadden, M. Hake, A. McGinnis, F. Sunderland, L. French,~M. Lyons, J. Sunderland, E. Wootten, M. Cox, F. Fitz, L. McFarland, N. Lloyd, L. Walsh, B.and T. Haney, M. Ivers, P. Felt, 100 par excellence.
A NEW DRAMA.
“THE UPSTART;”
A Comedy in Three Acts, adapted from the French of Moliere’s
LE BOVRGEOISE GENTILHOMME,
and arranged for Male Characters only,
By A. J. STAGE; and Edited by
JOSEPH A. LYONS.
This play is dedicated to the Members of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association,—the former, present, and yet to be.
Price 25 Cents,
“ The Upstart ” has been played at Notre Dame a number of times. Parts in this drama have been taken by Messrs. Berdel, Dodge, Ashton, Roberts, Foote, Dwyer, Wile, Foley, W. Dodge, Clarke, Mahony, Staley, Dum, Hutchings, Cochrane, Spillard, Nash, McHugh, Brown, Reilly, McGinnis, McOsker, Rumely, Goodhue, Shanks, Hunt and others. Hence
Every Member of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association,
PAST AND PRESENT,
should procure a copy.
Sent post free on receipt of price.
E. FOX, Publisher,
14 SOUTH FIFTH ST.,
st. louis, mo.
4
142
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
I. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, May. 13,1877, trains will leave South Bend as follows:
GOING EAST. ’
3 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 50; Cleveland 2 20 p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 22 a m, Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 50 p m; Cleveland 10 30 p m; Buffalo, 5 20 a m.
7 16 p m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrive at Toledo 10 56 p m; Cleveland 144 a m; Buffalo 6 52 a m.
9 12 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
2 40 a m: Cleveland, 7 65 a m; Buffalo, 1 05 p m.
4 38 and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
3 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am.
5 05 am, Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 a m; Chicago 20 a m.
4 38 p m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 35; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 a m; Chicago, 11 30 a. m.
8 45 and 9 35 am, Way Freight.
J. W. CARY. Gen’l Ticket Agt.', Cleveland. •
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Pittsburgh, FtWayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABEE.
PATRICK SHICKEY,
PB0PBIET0B OF THE
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MART’S MS LINE I
For my attention to the patrons of Notre Dame and St.'Maiy’s, I refer, by permission, to the Superiors of both Institutions.
P. S HICKEY.
Look to Your Health.
Boland’s Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron is the best Spring remedy for impoverished blood, physical exhaustion, or impaired digestion.
Ladies troubled with ailments incident to delicate con stitutions will find it invaluable.
Depot, Boland’s Drugstore,
53 CLARK ST-; opposite Stam House,
Chicago, Illinois.
'	JUNE 24, 1877.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
		No.l, Fast Ex.	No. 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, Mail.
Pittsburgh,..	... .Leave	11.45 p.m.	9.00 A.M.	1.50 p.m.	6.00 A.M.
Rochester,...		12.53 “	10.15 “	2.5S “	7.45 •“
Alliance,			3.10 A.M.	12.50 p.m.	5.35 “	11.00 “
Orrville,			4.46 “	2.30 “	7.12 “	12.55 p.m.
Mansfield, ...		7.00 “	4.40 “	9.20 “	3.11 “
Crestline,....	. Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 “
Crestline,....	....Leave	7.50 am.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	
Forest,			9.25 “	7.35 “	11.15 “	
Lima,			10.40 “	9.00 “	1225 a.m.	
Ft. Wayne,...		1.20 P.M.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Plymouth,...		3.45 “	246 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,		...Arrive	7.00 “	6.30 “	7.58 “	
GOIING EAST.
	No. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Pac. Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,	Leave Plymouth,		9.10 P.M. 2.46 A.M. 6 55 “ 8.55 “ 10.10 “ 11.45 “	8.00 A.M. 11.25 “ 2.10 p.m. 4.05 “ 5.20 “ 6.55 “	5.15 P.M.	
			9.00 “ 11.35 “ 1.30 A.M.	
Ft. Wayne,					
Tjma,.................				
~ Forest,				2.48 “ 4.25 “	
Crestline,	Arrive				
				
Crestline	Leave Mansfield,		12.05 p.m. 12.35 “ 2.30 “ 4.05 “ 6.22 “ 7.30 “	7.15 p.m. 7.44 “ 9.38 “ 11.15 “ 1.21 A.M. 2.30 “	1.40 A.M. 20 5 “ 3.40 “ 5.03 “ 69	“ 70' p.m.	6 05 a.m. 6.55 “ 9.15 “ 11.20 “ 2.00 p.m. 3.30 “
Orrville,								
Alliance,					
Rochester,						
Pittsburgh,	Arrive				
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs rhe celebrated Pullman Palace Cabs from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. B. MYEHS, G. P. & T. A.
Sets ’Em Up.
HENRY BLUM on hand with a full stock of Imported and Domestic CIGrARS and TOBACCOS at the
“STUDENTS’ OFFICE,”
54 Washington Street, SOUTH BEND, IND
All Kinds
TOWLE & ROPER, WHOLESALE DEALERS IN CIGARS i TOBACCO, 41 & 43 Wabash Avenue, CHICAGO, •	-	• ILLINOIS.
SEND for price list.
EDWARD BUYSSE, dealer in Watches, Clocks,
JEWELRY.
)f Engraving Done,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
M. Livingston & Co.,
A T?.~F! TTTTl	.
Leading Merchant Tailors in South Send. 94 MICHIGAN ST., SOUTH BEND, IND.
THE NOTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	143
(One Milo West of Notre Dame University.)
CONDUCTED BY THE SISTERS OF ROLY CROSS.
This Institution, situated on the beautiful and picturesque bank of the St. Joseph River, is everything that could be desired as a locality for a female academy. All the branches of a solid and complete education are taught here. Music, bith vocal and instrumental, and the modern languages, form prominent features in the course of instruction.	'
Particular attention is paid to the religious instruction of Catholic pupils. Pupils of all denominations are received, and for the sake of order required to attend the public religious exercises with the members of the Institution.
The buildings are spacious and commodious, suited to the educational requirements of the day. and furnished with all modern improvements. Every portion of the building is heated by steam, and hot and cold baths are attached to the sleeping apartments.
The grounds are very extensive, beautifully adorned, and situated in that charmng seclusion which is so favorable to the healthful development of moral, physical and intellectual power.
The proximity of the two institutions to each other is a great convenience to parents having children at both,! when they visit their sons and daughters
For furthir particulars concerning this Institution, the public are referred to the Twenty-Second Annual Catalogue of St. Mary’s Academy for ths year 1877-3, or address
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Chicago, E. I. & Pacific.
Through trains are run to Leavenworth and Atchison, connecting with trains for all points in Kansas and Southern Missouri. This is acknowledged by the travelling public to be the
Great Overland Ttoxitc to California. _
Two express trains leave Chicago daily from depot, corner Van Buren and Sherman streets, as follows:
Leave. Arrive.
Omaha, Leavenworth and Atchison Express..10 00 a.m. 3 45 p.m.
Peru accommodation............... 5 00 p.m.	9 35 a.m.
Night Express....................10 00 p.m.	6 50 a.m.
A M. SMITH,	H. RIDDLE,
Gcn’l Pass. Agent.	General Superintendent
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with Its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minne apolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
Is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato, St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
' FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and all points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Francisco Office, 12L Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices, 62 Clark Street, under Sherman House; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stennett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Pass. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO
KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Dcpo~, West Bide, near Madison street bridge; Ticket ofilces at depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City . nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, II.., and Louisiana, Mo.......3	40	pm	12	30	pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line...............................7	30	am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.........................3	40	pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.-........7 30 am 9 00 pm Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express......8 00 pm 9 00 am Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm 12 30 pm Joliet Accommodation......................9	20	am	5	00	pm
•T. C. McMullin, Gen. Supt-. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
FOR SALE.
In the immediate vicinity of Notre Dame, and very conveniently located in regard to Church and Markets, a very desirable property consisting of three large enclosed lots, a good two story frame house, well arranged and finished, good stable, carriage-Bbed, coal-house, young trees,grapes, shrubbery, etc., will be sold at rca3onable figures to a good buyer. For further information, address P. O. Box 35, No. Notts Dame, Ind. '
UNIVERSITY OF. NOTRE DAME
TlTZDIJLJSrJL-
Founded 1842.	Chartered 1844.
This Institution, incorporated in 1844, enlarged in 1866, and fitted up with all the modern improvements, affords accommodation to five hundred Students. It is situated near the City of South Bend, Indiana, on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad. The Michigan Central and the Chicago and Lake Huron Railroads also pass near the College grounds. In the organization of the house everything is provided to secure the health and promote the intellectual and moral advance, ment of the students. Three distinct courses of study are established: the Classical, the Scientific, and the Commercial, Optional courses may also be taken by those students whose time is limited.
This is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.	•
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all primary • branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.	,
Full particulars are contained in the Catalogue, which will be mailed on application to
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Pres’t.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
144
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Attorneys at Law.
Michigan Central Railway
BROWN <fc HARVEY (E. M. Brown of ’65), Attomeys at Law. Cleveland, Ohio.
SPEER «fc MITCHELL (N. S. Mitchell, of ’72], Attorneys at Law, No. 225 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa.
TLOMAS B. CLIFFORD, [of ’62] Attorney at
Law, Notary Public and Commissioner for all the States, 206 Broadway (cor. Fulton), New York. Special attention given to Depositions.	’
FAJnVDVG & nOG-^W [D. J. Hogan, of 74], At-
torneys at Law, Room 26, Ashland Block, N. E. Cor. Clark and Randolph sts., Chicago, Ill.
JOTTIV F. McHEGII [of’72], Attorney at Law. Office 65 and 67 Columbia St., Lafayette, Ind.
DODGE & DODGE [Chas. J., Notary Public, and
Wm W., both of ’74], Attorneys at Law. Collections promptly made. Office, Hedge’s Block, Burlington, Iowa.
ORVILLE T. CHAMBERLAIN (of ’61),
Attorney at Law, Notary Public and Commissioner of Deeds.
Office, S3 Main St., Elkhart, Ind.
McBRIDE «St NII 1 /L ARD (Jas. E. McBride, of
’68), Att’ys at Law, Solicitors in Chancery, and Proctors in Admiralty. Practice in all the courts of Mich, and of the U. S. Office, 41 Monroe St., Grand Rapids, Mich.
WT.T.TAM J. CLARKE (of’74). Attorney at Law, Rooms 3 & 4, Law Building, No. 67 S. High St., Columbus. O.
JA.NUES A.. O’REI T JjY—of ’69,—Attorney at Law, 527 Court Street, Reading, Pa. Collections promptly attended to.
JO TUN T>. McCORMICK—of ’73^Attorney at Law and Notary Public, Lancaster, Ohio. .
Time Table—June 34, 1877.
	♦Man	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	t Atlantic Express.	t Night Express.
Lv. Chicago		7 00 a.m	9 00 a.m	3 45 p.m	5 15 p.m	9 00 pm
“ Mich. City..	9 23 “	11 10 “	6 25 “	7 35 “	11 15 “
“ Niles 		10 46 “	12 15 “	8 20 “	9 00 “	12 35 a m
“ Kalamazoo..	12 35 p.m	1 38 p.m	10 10 “	10 26 “	2 17 “
“ Jackson		3 35 “	4 05 “		12 50 a.m	4 55 “
Ar. Detroit		6 25 “	6 39 “		3 35 “	8 00 am
Lv. Detroit		7 00 a.m	9 35 a m	3 15 p.m	9 50 p.m	6 05 p.m
“ Jackson		10 20 “	12 15 p.m	6 10 “	2 45 a.n	9 30 “
“ Kalamazoo..	1 15 p.m	2 40 “	9 CO “	12 53 “	12 16 a.m
“ Niles		3 11 “	4 07 “	7 00 a.m	4 24 “	2 35 “
“ Mich. City..	4 40 “	5 20 “	8 10 “	5 47 “	4 05 “
Ar. Chicago		6 55 “	7 40 “	10 30 “	8 00 “	6 30 “
INiles and South Bend Division. .
♦GOING NORTH. Lv. So. Bend—8 30 a.m. 6 30 p m. “ N. Dame— 8 37 "	6 35 “ Ar. Niles— 910 “	715 “	♦GOING SOUTH. Lv. Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m “ N. Dame— 740 “	4 48 “ Ar. So. Bend—745 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted.	tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henry C. Wentworth,	H. B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A., Chicago, DI.	Gon’l Sup’t, Chicago, Ill.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
Minerals, Shells, Birds, Etc.
Civil Engineers & Surveyors.
CM. PROCTOR [of ’75]. Civil Engineer of City and . County of Elkhart. Office, 67 Main St., Elkhart, Indiana. Special attention given to Hydraulic Engineering.
ARTHUR J. STACE [of ’Gl], County Surveyor for St. Joseph County. South Bend, Ind.
Weekly Newspapers.
rplIE CATHOLIC COLUMBIAN, published JL weekly at Columbus, O. Subscriptions from Notre Dame’s students and friends solicited. Terms, §2 per annum. .
D. A. Clarke, of ’70. ■
THE jWE MARIA, a Catholic journal devoted to the Blessed Virgin, published every Saturday at Notre Dame, Ind. Edited by a Priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Subscription price, §2.50.	-
THE YOUNG FOLKS’ FRIEND, published monthly at Loogootee, Ind. 50 cts. per year. Subscriptions solicited from the friends and students of Notre Dame. .
'	Abthur C. O’Brian, of ’76.
THE SOUTH BEND HERALD, published weekly by Chas. Murray & Co, (T. A. Dailey, of ’74) §1.50 per annum.
Hotels.
The Naturalists’ Agency has been established at 1223 Belmont Avenue, Philadelphia, for the purpose of giving collectors of objects ol Natural History an opportunity of buying, selling or exchanging their duplicates or collections.	_
Specimens sent to any part of the world by mail. An illustrated monthly bulletin of 8 pages sent free.
I received the highest award given to any one at the Centennial Exposition of 1876, and the only award and medal given to any American for “Collections of Minerals:”
My Mineralogical Catalogue, of 50 pages, is distributed free to all . customers, to others on receipt of 10 cents. It is profusely illustrated, and the printer and engraver charged me about §900, before a copy was struck off. By means of the table of species and accompanying tables most species may be verified. The price list is an excellent check list containing the names of all the species and the more common varieties, arranged alphabetically and preceded by the species number. The species number indicates the place of any mineral in the table of species, after it will be found the species name, composition, streak of lustre, cleavage or fracture, hardness, specific gravity, fusibility and crystallization.	•
Owing to an increase in stock, it has become necessary to obtain a larger and more convenient location. This has been found at No. 1223 Belmont Avenue, about 2 squares from the Trans-Continental hotel.
Over 38 tons, and nearly §35,000 worth of Minerals on hand. §19,000 worth sold since the 17th day of January, when the first box was put into my establishment. November 13th, my cash sales were over §1,500 and cash receipts over §1,200.
COLLECTIONS OF MINERALS
For Students, Amateurs, Professors, Physicians, and other Professional Men.
The collections of 100 illustrate all the principal species and all the grand subdivisions in Dana and other works on Mineralogy; every Crystalline System; and all the principal Ores and every known Element. The collections ate labelled with a printed label that can only be removed by soaking. The labels of the §5. and higher priced collections give Dana’s species number, the name, locality, and in most cases, the composition of the Mineral. All collections accompanied by my Dlustrated Catalogue and table of species.

CIRCLE HOUSE, On the European plan, Indianapolis, Ind., close to Union Depot, best in the city. English, German and French spoken. Geo. Rhodiue, Proprietor; E. Kitz, Clerk.
TELE BOND HOUSE, A. McKay, Prop., Niles, Michigan. Free Hack to and from all Trains for Guests of the House.
THE MATTESON HOUSE, Corner of Wabash Ave. and Jackson St., Chicago, Ill. All ^Notre Dame visitors to Chicago may be found at the Matteson.
Number of Specimens
25 inbox	50 inbox	100 in box
§ 50	81	§1 50
1 50	3	6
100
Crystals and fragments.... Students’ size, larger..... Amateur’s size, 2*4 in. xl$£.----- —
High School or Acad. size,2*4x3*4 in. shelf specimens College size, 354x6 in., shelf specimens..........
§ 1 5 10 25 500
200 300
$ 2
10
25
50
100
8 3
25
50
100
300
Visiting Cards.
CALLING CARDS-no two alike, with name neatly printed, for 10 cents.	E. A. Wilkie,
'	’	Mishawaka, lad.
Send for the bulletin stating where you saw this advertisement.
A. E. FOOTE, Iff. D,,
Prof, of Chemistry and Mineralogy,
Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Sdenc Life Member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sentences and of the American Museum of Natural
History, Central Park, New York.