i ..
Notre Dame Scholastic.
Oisoe quasi semper vlcturus; vive quasi eras morltrurvis.
Volume XII.
NOTBE DAME, INDIANA, MABCH 29, 1879.
Number 30.
[Selected.]
Death’s Final Conquest.
The glories of our birth and state _ Are shadows, not substantial things ; There is no armor against fate: Death lays his icy hands on kings;
Sceptre and crown
Must tumble down, And in the dust be equal made With the poor crooked scythe and spade.
Some men may reap the field,
And plant fresh laurels where they kill;
But their strong nerves at last must yield, They tame but one another still;
Early or late,
They stoop to fate, And must give up their murmuring breath, When they, pale captives, creep to death.
The garlands wither on your brow, Then boast no more your mighty deeds;
Upon Death’s purple altar, now, See where the victor victim bleeds All heads must come To the cold tomb;
Only the actions of the just
Smell sweet and blossom in the dust.	■
—Sirleij.
Discoveries.
Editor Scholastic:—While giving all due praise to the learned essays that have lately appeared in the Scholastic on the subject of “American Antiquities,” I would respectfully submit that there is but one discovery of America, that by Columbus. There was some approach to steamboat-making before Fulton—but Fulton is the inventor; men came very near discovering the telegraph before Morse—but Morse is the inventor. Towards every great discovery made by mankind there is a long series of approaches, some men even stumbling on or over the sublime secret, until finally there comes a man of genius and greatness of soul, appointed by Providence in His own good time; this man, as if in a fury of inspiration, seizes upon every clue of knowledge, turns every ray of light upon one focus—and, lo! the prize of ages is in his possession.	,
Had Columbus discovered America, as Cabral did Brazil, by being accidentally blown across the Atlantic; or,as the Northman did Nova Scotia, by accidentally losing his way in a fog; or, as the first Indian perhaps did Alaska, by being driven over the ice by a relentless foe,—then indeed would the discovery of our land be a mere question of
priority in stumbling, and the honor of the first stnmbler might be contended for by the Esquimaux, the Peruvians, and the Patagonians. But the honor of Columbus is that his discovery was the verification of a scientific problem, already solved in his mind before Isabella pledged her jewels in sign of her faith in his deductions; the real dis-coveiy of America was made years before those three small ships ventured from the port of Palos.
The investigation of the remains of the Mound Builders and other early races on this continent, the history of accidental discoveries made by Irish, Welsh and Scandinavian navigators, as well as the traditions of the Greeks, Bomans and Phcenicians concerning a remote knowledge of America, may be of interest, as indeed they are, from antiquarian and historical, as also perhaps philological and religious points of view—but nothing that shall ever be learned from these studies can change the fact that it is to the genius of Columbus the world owes its knowledge of this western land.
The true fame of a discoverer depends on two things, first the genius displayed in making the discovery, and second the intrinsic and practical value of the discovery itself. Herschel discovered the planet Uranus, and Lever-rier discovered the planet Neptune. The actual value of Herschel’s discovery is perhaps greater than Leverrier’s, since Uranus is nearer to us, and its movements consequently of more importance than Neptune’s. Yet the discovery of Neptune is counted one of the most brilliant feats in the history of Astronomy, while that of Uranus excites comparatively little remark. Why? Evidently because Herschel accidentally came across Uranus while he was sweeping the heavens with his monster telescope—it came in his way, and, having eyes, he saw the planet Leverrier, however, weighed the known planets, and determined by patient and unerring calculation that another planet was needed to preserve the balance of the heavens. He wrote to a friend of his who had a telescope, told him the point in the heavens where the new planet lay concealed, and, lo! there it was. That was a true Columbian discovery, not the result of accident, but of an almost divine prescience. In the order of intelligence, to know what will be is greater than to know what is.
Another example will illustrate this. In 1849, Col. Sut-. ter discovered gold in California, one of the most important discoveries of recent times. Col. Sutter, it would seem, ought to be a famous man, yet his name is hardly remembered; still there is nothing unjust in this, for his discovery was a mere accident. How different would it have been had he by skill in geology and mineralogy predicted the finding of the precious metal, and organized a plan for the important discovery! The honors which mankind delight to bestow are those that are won by ex--
i
470	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
cellence in the moral and intellectual world; and it is the glory of human nature and the sign of our immortality that these are the only honors that survive the waste of time, and even grow brighter with the years.
Two geographical discoveries surpass all others in history, the doubling of the Cape by Vasco de Gama and the passage of the Atlantic by Columbus. The latter is the supreme human achievement in this line, being one of the five or six controlling events in human affairs.
S. B.
*	Ancient Scandinavia.
The history of many of the peoples who ages ago inhabited the northern parts of the European continent is almost clouded in oblivion. The reminiscences which the history of ancient Scandinavia can add to those of the other Germanic tribes, though they are of a somewhat later period, nevertheless are clothed in the most antique character. From the history of this country we can form a better idea of the manners and customs which existed before the Roman influence had taken its spread. As one of their own historians has remarked, their internal or social history resembles the physical nature of their country. In the north, as all well know, the geologist can read the book of nature without any trouble, but as he comes south he finds it covered with later alluvia. Here he must" first remove the more modern deposits if he wishes to understand thoroughly the primitive state.. In this comparison the Swedish historian, Geizer, has given great insight into many points which have a connection not only with his own country but also with Denmark and Norway. He has laid open to us the manners, customs, and religious rites of the numerous hordes of barbarians who inhabited the North, and who in the course of time moved down like a mighty avalanche, ultimately subverting the Roman Empire. They, however, in their turn succumbed to the influence of Roman civilization. Their influence, such as it was, combined with the civilizing principles of Catholicity, gave a grand and new inpulse to the moral civilization of the world. The Teutons, Saxons, Franks, Longobards, Germans and Goths were all akin in the principles of their language, customs and institutions. It is a subject worthy of some thought to those persons or peoples who have sprung from these ancient Scandinavians and in whose veins runs the admixture of Northern blood.
The question, Who were the earliest inhabitants of Scandinavia? is one more easily asked than answered. In many of the Greek and Roman writers there is frequently made mention of the people who dwelt at the ends of the earth, and these are supposed to be Scandinavians. These allusions are vague, and give nothing definite; however, the many conflicting opinions which many writers have put forth are founded on the testimony of these writers. There is no doubt that the people of Scandinavia belong to the great Gothic-Germanic stock, but when we begin to seek any farther into their origin we become confused. The opinion which assigns priority to the Goths, is one which is greatly disputed. Some modern writers give a very early date as the time when the Goths became known in Scandinavia, but by others the time of their migration is assigned to more recent times. The Eddas are the earliest records of Scandinavian mythology, and are believed to contain not only the theogony and cosmogony of this people, but also the traditions respecting the first inhabi
tants. The Asas or gods are represented as being in perpetual warfare with gigantic beings, called Thurser, Jetter, and Jonter. These so-called gods were, in all probability, the earliest settlers, to whom great reverence was paid. However, these persons are not believed to represent the people in possession of this land before the arrival of the Goths from their original cradle in the centre of Asia. There are discernible traces of three different peoples, or at least grades of civilization. The most noted of the archaeological monuments of ancient Scandinavian history are the graves. These queer structures are found scattered in every portion of the land. The difference in structure, the manner in which the bodies are disposed and the weapons found in these tumuli, give us reason to make the distinction of three periods, viz.: the age of Stone, the age of Bronze, and the age of Iron. These three ages of Scandinavian history are named from the material chiefly in use in making their weapons. The graves, or mounds, as they may be called, are not the same in all parts of the country. In the southern parts the age of stone is more prevalent. From the fact that those ancient relics of this race of people are found to begin in the south and somewhat eastern part of the country, we are led to conjecture that the migration came from the East, the direction of the land of the primitive Goth. These sepulchres are some of large, others of smaller dimensions. They are formed of large slabs, which on the outer side are rough and irregular, but on the inner side are sometimes quite smooth. In the smaller kind, the entrance is generally marked by small compact stones. In the larger kind the entrance is in an improved condition, being guarded by one large stone. Some of these tombs will measure on the inner side 400x40x16. Many of them are divided into compartments, in each of which was placed one body. The covering slab is generally large, and by some this was considered as an altar on which human victims were immolated. This, however, may be doubted, since in many of them this slab is quite pointed on the upper side. In some of these tombs the bones are in confused masses, from which We infer that they were buried in their natural state. There are also found utensils, such as flint spears, fishing tackle, etc., which show they had not advanced to any very high degree of civilization. Some rude specimens of pottery are also found. We can see that the race were not altogether nomadic, but settled, as the number of bones found in some of these tombs prove. In those sepulchres there are found the remains of many species of animals, such as the horse, fox, elk, etc., which in our time are not found within a great distance of this region.
There is also another source from which we can draw great information of this people, separated from us by at least thirty centuries: I mean the bogs. In the times of these people, those bogs must have been great marshes, and during the lapse of so many centuries have been carbonized. These marshes now yield up their contents, which reveal to man facts of great importance. In many of these beds are found the bodies of human beings, preserved in an almost perfect state by a chemical operation of the bog-water. The remains are clothed in untanned hides of animals then inhabiting these regions. These hides are sewed together in a loose manner by straps of the hide itself. Although these antiquities may suffice to give us some idea of the state of civilization to which the people had arisen, yet it in no way affords us any certain motive of conjecturing who were the original inhabitants-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	471
r
1

The Finns and Celts were the two great races of this part of the continent. To neither of these can we trace in any degree the origin of the Scandinavians. From what Tacitus tells us of the manners and customs of the Finnic people, and from what we have learned of the manners and customs of the Scandinavians, some antiquarians say we can conjecture the identity of race. To this, others make some very strong objections, saying that from the fact that we find many utensils of the ancient Scandinavians similar to those of the Finnic races, we make too bold an assertion when, we say thq.t the Scandinavians are of Finnic origin, without any argument to substantiate it. For we see in America many of those same utensils which are found in the Scandinavian tombs and bogs. We find them also in the Polynesian Islands. But could we be so rash as to assert that the inhabitants of these places were all of Finnic origin ? From the fact that we find these utensils in almost every country, we may rather conclude that civilization follows, as it were, a fixed rule. There are now many ■ things which militate against the hypothesis that the ancient Scandinavians were of Finnic origin; for we have seen that the Scandinavians were not a nomad race, but when the Finns were compelled to leave their lands, situated further south, and seek a settlement further north, they left behind them no such sepulchral monuments as we find among the Scandinavians; and consequently we must conclude that the latter were not of Finnic origin. Nor can we in any way suppose they were of Celtic origin, for the manners and customs cf the Celts, to a great extent, were wholly opposed to those which we know were characteristic of the Scandinavians. Among the Celts the custom of concremation prevailed. They built no sepulchres, nor any structures to preserve the bodies of their dead. Even in the western parts of Europe, the land of the Celts, there are found traces of some of the Scandinavian people who had migrated into those parts while the Celts still in. habited them. In many other places on the continent where many Celtic tribes dwelt for a long time, there are found no traces which would afford us any reason to believe that the Celts were the progenitors of the Scandinavians. As a general conclusion, from these few remarks on the first age, the Age of Stone, we may conclude that the original settlers of the Scandinavian peninsula were neither of Celtic nor Finnic origin.
The second age of Scandinavian history, known as the Age of Bronze,—30 called from the very prevalent use of this metal in manufacturing their implements,—opens to our view some of the progress which this people had made in the social habits of life. Among the antiquities of this age we find weapons resembling swords, or rather the modern sickles, combs, pots, and in some places a rough imitation of the shields. They no longer clad themselves in the untanned hides of wild animals, but there are found some specimens of woollen cloth of different grades. The swords are not very long—about two feet; they are double-edged, and are so formed as to be easily wielded. Sometimes they are found in a case resembling a scabbard. There are also found many ornaments which the young ladies of that time were accustomed to wear, such as amber ornaments, neck-chains, brooches and rings. One of the characters which distinguish this age from the Age of Stone, is the mode of burial. In many of the tumuli there are found cinerary urns, in which the body was burned. They are enclosed in a sarcophagus of a rough kind. The sarcophagi are generally placed on elevations,
and are found in most instances to be directed towards the ocean. These sarcophagi, as I have said, are roughly made, being formed from irregular blocks, and the whole covered with earth. It would seem that in this age they did not pay so much respect to the dead as they did in the former. In order to bring about this change many centuries must have elapsed, since among all. barbarous or semi-civilized peoples the manner of burying the dead is most tenaciously held to. The change cannot be effected in a year, or in ten years, unless they are subjugated by a people who have a different mode of burial. Denmark and Southern Sweden are the parts in which the second age made the greatest progress. Some antiquarians in studying this age have found in many of the sarcophagi relics of the Age of Stone. From this, with too little consideration, they form the supposition that the people must have been divided into a richer and poorer class. This supposition seems to have no foundation whatever. For if the tombs in which the richer classes were buried can only be conjectured from the fact that we find those ornaments of bronze and gold in them, it does not seem consistent that the poorer classes could afford to bury in tombs which required a vaster amount of labor. It is an evident fact that the people of this second age were given to war. That they must have made great progress in naval tactics is evident from the great quantity of bronze, an alloy of copper and tin, which they made use of In all the researches which modem antiquarians have made, they have found no traces of beds of these ores which could have supplied them with such vast quantities as they were continually using. From all this we must conclude that they imported it from some other country. When the Romans first invaded England, in 55 B. C., they remarked that the inhabitants of the southern countries were superior in civilization. Historians account for this by the intercourse which they carried on with traders whom the ores of this country attracted there. It is, then, more than probable that the inhabitants of Southern Scandinavia bartered with the Britons for tin, since among all countries the country of the Britons was called the “ Cassiterides,” or tin islands. In order to carry or this trade they must have had ships of large size. They must also have made some progress in the arts, since we find among the antiquities several clay mouldings on which the bronze articles were formed. It has been ascertained with sufficient certainty that the inhabitants of Scandinavia in the second age were of Gothic-Germanic, and not Celtic origin. I will not here endeavor to give any of the reasons which the defenders of this last opinion bring forward to substantiate their assertion. Our only source whence we can draw any information on which we may rely with any certainty, is the relics which remain of this people. One of the peculiarities of the second age is a new kind of sarcophagi, which have been called ship-mounds. These ship-mounds are so called from the resemblance in form to a ship. They are formed like the hull of a ship, and at the bow end is placed a large upright stone, which forms the bowsprit in modern sloops. In the centre is placed another large stone corresponding to the mast, and several rows of small stones are supposed to represent oars. The most remarkable of these graves are those of the Vekings, whose deeds and skill in piratical art had made the name of the Northmen a terror to all the other nations of Europe. The most remarkable of these graves of which we have a full account is that of King
472
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Gorum the Old, whose reign may be considered as the beginning of the historic period of the Danes.
The luxury which has become so predominant in the latter part of the second and beginning of the third age, was most likely acquired by them during their piratical depredations on the more civilized countries. Their later mythology gives us further proof that their civilization was mainly from Eastern sources. At many of the feasts in honor of their gods songs’ were composed under the direction of Barge, the god of eloquence and poetry. Among the Scandinavians the bards were called scalds. The scaldic art thrived greatly intheAgeof Iron. TheNorthmen, when they had learned to traverse the sea with greater security, made piracy their means of living. Through their contact with Christian peoples they became, in the course of time, imbued with the principles of Christianity, and not many years after made settlements not only in England, but also in France and other countries. The cause which may be assigned for their rapid conquests in those countries is the upheaved condition in which the western states were at the time, and in some degree to the terror which the name caused in all civilized people. Through the indefatigable zeal of-the missionaries of the Gospel, these piratical hordes became a good and industrious people.
L. J. E.
Student Life in Borne.
The following extracts from a letter were handed to us by the recipient. Though the letter has already appeared in the Aoe Haria, we feel that our readers will thank us for giving the extracts in the Scholastic, as they are more particularly interesting to students:
Dear S-------: Whilst musing over a quaint old painting a few days ago in the Church of the Holy Cross (Santa Croce), I bethought myself that I was rather dilatory in writing to a certain individual of an order of the same name as the church I was in. As I was rather tired from the long walk thither, all thoughts of an active character were unpleasant visitors, so I tried to put this one away; but in vain. I tried to fight it down with such reflections as these: “I have to hand in a sermon before the holidays are over; and my first sermon, too. How can I write a letter?” “My sister must have sent her my letters,” and so on:—but “the ghost of Banquo” “would not down.” It haunted me through the church; spoke from every figure of the Cross I met; and even followed me upstairs into the reliquary chapel:—the sight of pieces of the true Cross (the largest in the world), one of the sacred nails, portions of the original inscription written over the Cross, a large portion of the good thief’s cross, each and all kept recalling the same thought to my mind: “You owe S----- a letter.” I procured for you a fac-simile of the nail which pierced one of our Lord's hands, and had it touch the true Nail; and then consoled myself that I had done something for the object of my thoughts. I will send it to you as soon as possible.
Of course I am expected to say a few words of the great historic city I am in. Would that I could give you some idea of it! I would only be too glad to do so. But just as it took centuries to make Rome what it is, it would take more than a lifetime to tell all about it. Now, I can assure myself you don’t expect me to spend my life doing anything of the kind, and so will content myself with some general remarks on what I have experienced during my brief residence here.
Every day we have a walk, between three and four o’clock, to some point of interest, and there are hundreds. Thus I have seen already a great deal of Rome in a passing, imperfect way. I have been to all the great basilicas (excepting St. Paul’s without the walls), to the Colosseum, the Pantheon, the Forum, the Castle San Angelo, etc., etc. St. Peter’s I have visited about five times	i
already, and every time I go there I think I know less	j
about it. I am neither poet nor painter, nor sculptor nor	1
architect; but were I all these I would not attempt a de-	;
scription of its magnificence. Its front is quite disappointing, and, in fact, not half as imposing as the back. Its ex-	«
ternal appearance is vastly inferior in beauty, I think, to that of the Capitol at Washington. But advance within the portals, and the grandeur of the design, the extraordinary dimensions, the grand proportions, the adornments, the statuary, the paintings, the mosaics, simply overwhelm you in wonder. You can scarcely believe it the work of men. Everywhere you move, some new surprise meets you. In fact your eyes are ever deceiving you. For instance, standing about eight or nine feet from a pillar, you behold on it a dove in relievo. Apparently it is no more than two or three feet from the marble floor, and the size of a pigeon; at the distance of two or three feet it seems almost the same. But stand beside it, and you find it high out of your reach, and double the proportions it seemed. Apparently, again, you see a baby angel; advance, and, as it were by magic, you find it larger than a man. One comprehensive idea of St. Peter’s is impossible,—you must take it in piecemeal.
Next to St. Peter’s, I love to look upon the grand old Colosseum, more than magnificent in its ruins, stately and sublime. Palaces and churches have been built out of its stone, yet it stands, still the largest pile in Rome. There is nothing of adornment, nought of flash or display about it to attract the eye, but simply its immensity and grandeur.
I might go on thus from church to palace, from palace to monuments,—from monuments to museums, unendingly, so great a centre is Rome, of art, of science, of all that is beautiful and sublime. Nothing in America can give you any idea of the churches here. Our little chapel, about 40 feet long—if that much—would cost more than any two of the largest churches in Washington. It is but a mass of marbles of all colors, and paintings, and statues, etc.
And now a little about myself and surroundings: Our college was formerly a convent of nuns of St? Frances de Chantal, and is about three hundred years old—everything in Rome almost has a history of centuries. Our convent is quite young in comparison, and does not in fact show any of the	«
wrinkles of declining years as yet, being as fresh-looking inside as a house of yesterday. My little room looks out on the garden, full of orange, lemon, date, and fig trees, , which even now are bending beneath their loads of fruit, whilst the opening rose sends up its perfume near by. A fountain plays and sparkles in the sunshine at one end, whilst fishes of all colors disport themselves in its waters.
Of the students, there are thirty, divided into three bands (or “ camerata,”—room-mates,) which do not meet for recreation except after dinner. I am in the third camerata, which contains fifteen, or half the community. And a happier set than these could not be found. They are as good at recreation as they are at their books, and that is saying a good deal. Several of them play the piano, and all of them sing;—and when on English nights we meet in our	4
room, we make the welkin ring and ring again. I spoke	'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	473
of “English nights.” Four nights in the week recreation (always in the camerata rooms at night) must be taken in Italian or Latin. No English on these evenings is allowed to be spoken. My classes are: in the morning—Moral Philosophy and Logic; in the evening, Hebrew and Physics; the last is taught in Italian, the others in Latin, and all by some of the most learned men in Rome in their departments. For class we have to go to the Propaganda, about ten minutes’ walk from our college.
Our board is excellent. We have been banqueted four times. But the best part of the feast is the chance it affords of.seeing some of the most celebrated men of the day. Such a brilliant assemblage of talent, genius, learning and famed names, could not be had outside of Rome..
I forgot to tell you that in class I have met with students of every civilized nation on earth, of all colors (black included), and of all languages. The first darkey I ever kissed was a Nubian, who in the wilds of Africa had served under five masters, whose brands he bore over his whole body. It was on occasion of his ordination. He now goes back to Africa, a priest. He was quite charmed with us American students, and said he liked us better than the others. He could not keep the tears back when he came so bid us good-bye. We got him to sing solemn High Mass for us, the Rector and Vice-Rector acted as deacon and subdeacon. There was a little feast given in his honor. The poor fellow could hardly contain himself; and when he had kissed us all farewell, he began to cry like a child. He had been a student of the Propaganda for ten years, and was supported by one of the noble families of Rome, who had bought him in Africa. He was continually asking questions about the negroes in the United States, and seemed to love our Republic more than we ourselves, on account of the freedom it had given the negroes.
We have scarce four hours of the day to spend in our rooms, and of course very little time in which to write letters. We have to take daily walks to keep in health, and these consume a considerable amount of time; they are, however, very necessary, as the climate is trying to students. But the advantages repay all. And yet you cannot exactly realize in what the advantage consists. One feels his mind expanding, filling with new ideas, and rectifying old ones; we acquire knowledge everyday that could be acquired nowhere else, and yet know not how or when it comes to us. Truly I feel the benefit of studying in Rome, though at first I did not think there would be any. I came through obedience more than desire, but now am overjoyed that I had the chance.
We have a uniform, as have all the other colleges. The Germans wear a bright red, the Greeks a sky-blue, the Scots a darker shade of blue, the Romans a purple, and so with the rest; each has its distinguishing color. We have a black cassock, something like a Jesuit’s cassock, doubling over in front, and hooking at one side; it has a stiff collar, which meets by hooks, with three blue buttons and three blue cords on each side of the throat. The cassock is kept closed by three blue buttons with corresponding button-holes worked in blue and running slantingly towards the right arm from the collar; the sleeves also have each three blue buttons on the cuffs; the edge of the cassock from the collar to the feet is faced with blue, which turns over a little, so as to make a line of blue down the front; inside the stiff collar we wear another of linen which appears a little on the outside; around the waste is worn a sash of cardinal red. Thus we carry the red, white and
blue, wherever we go, like true Americans. But this is only the cassock: there are two other articles of dress— namely, the “zimara”and the “soprano.” The former, our court and city dress, is worn over the cassock. It fits closely over the cassock, hooks at the the neck, is faced down the centre or edge with blue, having no sleeves, but mere arm-holes, and from the shoulders drop to the feet two leading-strings, such as they train children with here to walk, and signify that we are not yet free from obedience or able to take care of ourselves. They are like two long bands. We must always wear this in the city. The “soprano” is a long cloak reaching to the feet, having sleeves and also a cape, and like the “zimara” hooks at the throat, and is faced with blue down the edge. This we wear in the house, over the cassock, when it is any way cool. ■ Another feature of Our dress is the hat, a regular Mexican “ sombrero.” So much for our uniform, to which we are much attached. Epiphany is the great day with the Italians. Its holidays have given us many chances for amusement and for lengthy visits to places of note. We made a visit this morning of three hours to the Vati -can picture gallery; yesterday, to the sculpture gallery; but, of course, we did not see the tenth part of either. What a grand place is this Vatican Museum! I have seen the Louvre, the British Museum and Kensington at London, but great though they are, they do not compare with that -of the Popes.........
Ever yours affectionately, —
Collegio Americano, Via del ’Umilta, Rome.
The Sepulchre at Notre Dame.
Many have either visited, or, at least, heard tell of the beautiful sepulchre which lies in the cemetery of Notre Dame, about an eighth of a mile distant from the College. This sepulchre was built in 1863, under the presidency of Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C.
It was one smiling morning in summer, while sitting on the front steps of the College, that I saw the Fathers and Brothers advancing in a body to the community grave* yard. Led, as it were, by mere curiosity, I walked along, thinking within myself what the cause of this procession might be, for I knew that it was not a funeral. As I was afterwards informed, it was customary after the annual retreat for the community to visit in a body the graveyard and there to pray awhile for the souls departed.
The morning was a lovely one; the sun was out in all his glory; the air was pure and balmy. The green foliage of the trees near St. Joseph’s lake, around which now stand a few old majestic oaks, the only survivors of the once wild forest, reflected their giant forms upon the sparkling waters of the crystal lake. In the distance could be seen St. Mary’s Academy; the locomotive passing by with unwonted speed, the farmers ploughing or gathering in their grain; the flocks of the neighboring agriculturist browsing m the dewy grass, or at times running in playful sp.xts across the rich meadows; turning towards the south, could be seen the industrious city of South Bend gleaming beneath its uplifted canopy of smoke. But the beauty of the scenery seemed not to woo the attention of the little band of Fathers and Brothers as they moved silently along. After a few moments’ walk they arrived at the cemetery, where some knelt at the graves of their departed brethren and others visited the sepulchre. I, desirous to see and not to be seen, arrived at the graveyard by a path
4U
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
which leads from the Scholasticate directly to the wooden gate which opens the way to the sepulchre. Standing at this gate, on one side you see a large wooden cross, surrounded by cedar trees. On the other side lie the graves of two students who when dying desired to be buried side by side within the precincts of their old Alma Mater The path which lies between these two graves and the large cross leads you to a circuitous hollow place within which lies the Holy Sepulchre, made entirely of brick, in the form of the letter T. Standing on top of the ridge of earth around the sepulchre, you see 14 crosses, near which stand some beautiful cedar trees. Turning to the right you see the last resting place of the noblest men and, if I may so speak, the greatest heroes (for they were conquerors of self) of whom Notre Dame can boast. Come, let us descend these stairs; now, being at the bottom, you stand at the entrance of the silent tomb. The iron gate that you see is elaborately worked out. But let us proceed within. As you enter you see on either side of the little passage two niches which contain the statues of angels. Advance slowly—behold! now you are within the tomb; but step back to yonder corner, from which you can see all the charms of this silent place. A few feet before you stands the little altar, decked with the choicest flowers of the season. Over this altar is a little window of red glass, circular in form, through which, when you gaze, the trees without seem to be ablaze. But now the sun streaming in full glory through it steeps the interior of the place with a bright lustre, giving to the hangings.and the bright ornaments of the altar a richness and magnificence truly royal. The red light of the window, together with the brilliancy of the many-colored lamps reflecting upon the silver crucifix of the tabernacle, which in turn lights up the surrounding walls, casts a solemn glow around the interior. Gaze up to the hemispherical ceiling and you will see hanging in mid-air the little silver sanctuary lamp, displaying, as it were, a silver fountain of mildest radiance, not shooting forth in rays, not scattering abroad fiery sparks, not flickering about in an unsteady flame, but softly and equally diffused from every side, repleting the holy place with a disk of serenest, purest light, and thence overflowing in a bland stream into the remoter parts of the building. On the walls around are hung the Stations of the Cross, recalling vividly to our memory the love He entertained for us within His Sacred Heart who deigned of His own accord to calm the anger of a just God, when, as the poet makes Him say:
“........On Me let Thine anger fall: Account Me man: I for his sake will leave Thy Bosom, and. this glory next to Thee Ereely put off, and. for him lastly die Well pleased.”
But now, before you take your departure hence, look behind and you will see a picture, “The Taking Down from the Cross,” together with the implements of our Saviour’s Passion. What now are your thoughts as you gaze upon that picture and see that Virgin holding in her arms the lifeless form of her Son? Perhaps the pen may not describe nor the lips express your present sentiments, but the silence and grandeur of the Sepulchre seem thus to address you: “See, 0 proud and sinful man, the state in which you have placed Him! Restore that loving Son to the arms of His afflicted Mother! Ask now forgiveness, as did the penitent thief, so that when your turn comes to be laid in the silent tomb you may hear these consoling
words: ‘This day thou shalt be with Me in Paradise.’” J.J.F.
Scientific Notes.
—A very simple method of preserving posttertiary bones is to paint them with gum, which should be as dear and colorless as possible. This is an easy and inexpensive, and, as I know from experience, an effectual way of preserving them. It makes them very strong, and enables them to bear any reasonable amount of handling. The gum must be thin, or it will give the bones a shiny, varnished appearance. All fossils which are liable to crumble and fall to pieces may be preserved in the same way.
—Gen. Myer (our “Old Probabilities”) has presented M. W. de Fonvielle with an improved weather-indicator in acknowledgment of the services rendered by him during the French Exhibition in popularizing the principles adopted by the United States Signal-Office. This weatther indicator will be exposed in the shop of M. Secretan, the optician of the Pont Neuf, in Paris, and forecasts daily published according to the method adopted by the Signal-Office in the several American farmers’ post-offices.
—A correspondent of Science Gossip writes: “I have found a blackbird’s nest with four thrushes’ eggs and five blackbirds’ in it; also a wren’s nest in the roof of a thatched shed, inside, containing several eggs of the common wren as well as three eggs of the house sparrow; I have also several times found pheasants’ and partridges’ eggs in- the same nest, but in none of these cases have I discovered which bird ultimately brought up the brood, as I regret to say in those days I used to take all the eggs I found.”
—The Council of the Royal Geographical Society have presented a remarkable memorial “to H. M. Commissioners of the University of Oxford, to those of Cambridge, and to the Governing Bodies of either University.” The burden of this memorial is that steps ought to be taken for the establishment of professorships of geography in the two universities. The memorial points out forcibly and justly the ignorance of geography in its highest sense, in England, where it is commonly confounded with mere topography.
—The best way to kill a small reptilian or patrachian is to put the animal into a phial which is of just sufficient size together with a piece of folded blotting-paper, saturated with chloroform, and then place the bottle for a few minutes out of the sight of ladies and children. Death will speedly result from asphyxia. The specimen should then be preserved in methylated spirit, which may be diluted to the extent of, say, 25 per cent, with water. The addition of water will very likely make the liquid thick with air-bubbles, but these will disappear in a few hours.
—An unusually brilliant meteor was seen in the north of England on Monday morning (Feb. 24) at about twelve minutes to 3 o’clock. It is described as a pear-shaped ball of fire in the northern heavens, which travelled slowly downwards towards the horizon, and emitting scintillations and a light of great brilliancy almost equal to that of day, so great indeed that it is said the smallest print could have been read. The light having disappeared, a sound described by some as resembling the discharge of heavy cannon, and by others as that of the rumbling of distant thunder, was heard, but in all cases it seems to have been sufficiently violent to rattle windows, etc., and to have raised various speculations as to what could be the cause, some ascribing it to an earthquake, others to lightning, while others who saw the meteor set it to the account of that unearthly visitor.—Nature.
[tiBSKSSSmES
—A patriarch of the forest has been lately felled in California, and the greater portion of the wood taken to San Francisco. It was known by the epithet of “ Old Moses.” If one might infer with accuracy its age from the number of its rings, it must have been 4,840 years old. Its capacity is said to have been so great that 300 persons could find room within its trunk.
THE KoTtlfi DAME SCHOLASTIC.	475
Art, Music and Literature.
—The second volume in the series of lives of American authors which Sheldon & Co. are publishing will be a Life of William Cullen Bryant, by Prof.’ D. J. Hill, of Lewisburg University. The book will have 250 pages, and a steel portrait of Byrant. It will be issued immediately.
—New York has just witnessed the debut of a new pianist, Anton Strelezki by name, a pupil of Rubinstein. The most remarkable thing about him seems to be his memory, for he played nineteen pieces from Beethoven, Chopin, Schubert, Schumann, an<j his master without notes.	’
—Herr Rheinberger of Munich, is translating Mr. Bel-lasis’ “ Memorials of Cherubini ” into German, and Mr. Dannreuther is making a new translation for Mr. W. Reeves of Wagner’s “ Essays on Beethoven,” interpolating in it chapters on the Metaphysics of Music from Schopenhauer’s philosophical works.
—A school-book to be used in Southern schools, for exercises in reading and oratory, is published. The extracts are from the writings of Southern authors, and the book is said to be thoroughly sectional. Among the writers represented are Sidney Lanier, Paul H. Hayne, Sam Houston, Alexander H. Stephens, Wade Hampton, Senator Lamar and J. Proctor Knott.
—An English paper notes a remarkable feat in rapid publishing. Gen. Sir Arthur Cunynghame’s “My Command in South Africa,” a small octavo of four hundred pages, reached Macmillan & Co. in manuscript on Wednesday and the printers on Thursday. Thirty copies of the printed book, unbound, were ready for the officers of the three battalions which left England for the Cape on the following Tuesday.
—Several well-known books in the English language have already appeared in Russia, or will appear there soon. Irvin’s “Tales of a Traveller” have been issued in an excellent form at Moscow. Among books advertised at Moscow as carnival presents were Lecky’s “European Morals,” Motley’s “ Dutch Republic ” and Froude’s “ Short Studies.” The duke of Argyll’s book on the eastern question will soon be ready in the Russian language.
—The third volume of the Comte de Paris’ “History of the Civil War ” will be ready about the middle of the year. This volume will contain, without abridgment, volumes five and six of the French edition. It will embrace the account of the battles of Gettysburg, Vicksburg and Port Hudson, and all other events of the war to January 1st, 1864. Volume four, completing the work, including the seventh and eighth volumes of the French, is expected during the year.
—“Every Man His Own Poet; or, The Inspired Singer’s Recipe Book,” by a Newdigate Prizeman, is published by A. Williams & Co., Boston. If any man or woman wishes to be a Sweet Singer of any place, this is the book to tell him or her how to be the same. It is an exceedingly clever brochure, taking up each of the leading English poets, and giving a recipe for writing verses like his. The book is now generally attributed to W. H. Mallock, author of “ The New Republic.”
—It is certainly curious to hear of a new Roumanian opera, but one has been produced at the National Theatre in Bucharest. The libretto is by the reigning Princess Elizabeth of Roumania, who has assumed the nom de plume of F. de Laroc. The music is by the court pianist, Lioubitch Skibinski. The first representation was attended by the court circle, and many foreigners of distinction. The poem is stated to be superior to the score; perhaps this is said as a compliment to the royal author.
—The Roman correspondent of the Boston Pilot writes as follows under date of February 24th: “ A musical and literary entertainment was given on Saturday evening by the members of the celebrated Arcadian Academy, in.their hall at the Palazzo Altemps, to the members of the Catholic Press. Five Cardinals assisted at it, and many distinguished Prelates. Poems were recited in a variety of languages, such as Armenian, French, Greek, Italian, Latin, Portuguese, Polish, Spanish, Flemish, German, Dutch and English. What surprised me especially was the fact
that the author and writer of the English poem was William W. Story, who, as is well known, is no Catholic. His poem was all in praise of Leo XIII, who was once a shepherd in the Arcadian shade, and is now the shepherd of the Christian flock throughout the world. The verses were neat and sparkling.”
—A London correspondent writes: “Musicians and ‘ lovers of the classic ’ grieve over the loss which art suffers in Mr. Arthur Sullivan’s devotion to comic opera. Oratorio, church music, and the lyric stage of Covent Garden, they think should have absorbed all his thoughts. But Arthur has a family of ‘ his sisters, his cousins, and his aunts’ to keep. He also likes to live in good style himself, and he did not find that the religious world paid him so well as the profane. He, therefore, turned his hand to burlesquing the classical and the sacred. Mr. Sullivan and his collaborator, Mr. Gilbert, are engaged on a new piece to follow ‘ The Pinafore,’ which will eclipse both that and the ‘ Sorcerer ’ in breadth of humor and grotesqueness of situation. Six burglars break into a house and fall in love with the six nieces of the proprietor before the six policemen on the watch have time to interfere. If New York wants the musical drollery I am told negotiations should be made at once, as it is not intended to publish the next opera comique, and thus abrogate copyright in America.”
—“ Templeton,” the Boston correspondent of the Hartford Courant, writes: I am told pretty postively by a lady who professes to know that we are all wrong in attributing the authorship of ‘Signor Monaldini’s Niece’ to Miss Fletcher. She says it was written by Miss Tincker, a lady living in Rome. Miss Tincker is a native of Augusta, Me. She became converted to the Roman Catholic religion several years ago, and soon after took up her residence in Rome. She has written for the Catholic World, and had a story in a recent number of Lippincott's Magazine. I think, but am not sure, that there is a novel of hers in the Leisure-Hour Series of Holt & Co. She has a sister in this city who is a lady of rare accomplishments, and was the secretary of the Committee having charge of the recent Carnival of Authors in aid of the Old South Fund. I have read a manuscript play of this Boston Miss Tincker which is very clever, and much better than the average pieces which obtain representation on the stage. I send you this gossip about the authorship of the above-named novel for what it is worth. Mr. Niles is very shrewd in getting these No-name books talked about, and this one better deserves it than almost any story in the series.”
—When caverns in which the streams disappear are of small extent, and open at both extremities, they form na* tural bridges. These are frequently met with now in localities where no waters exist. A remarkable curiosity of this kind occurs in the Valley of Icononzo, or Panda, in Mexico. It spans a chasm 325 feet deep, at whose bottom winds a small torrent, the Rio de la Sumna Paz, inclosed in an almost inaccessible channel. The principal bridge measures 43 feet in length by 39 feet in width, and is 6J4 feet thick. Sixty-five feet below this first bridge is found a second consisting of three blocks which support themselves without any adventitious aid; the central is perforated with a hole, through which the bottom of the abyss as visible. The Bridge of Arc, over the river Ardeche, is a natural arch 98 feet in height and 195 in span. The Bridge of Veja, near Verona, is 125 feet high. The magnificent rock bridge of Virginia spans an abyss which separates two mountains—an abyss of 225 feet, in the deep obscurity of which whiten and seethe the restless waters of Cedar Creek. This marvellous arch is nearly 100 feet in length and 41 feet thick; it is a natural curiosity which no spectator can survey without feelings of admiration. In the Lebanon, a torrent emptying itself into the Beirut river passes under a natural arch of 215 feet in height, locally known as the Ain-el Liban. A similar bridge is thrown over the Litany, the ancient Leontes, near Tisr Ku-raone, where the river has tunnelled through a rock upward of 90 feet thick. The road from Wady el Teim to Nihah is carried across this wonderful arch. The arch over the Dog River, near the Niban el Liban, is hollowed out in the solid rock. It is 90 feet thick; its span, 157 feet; and the height on the lower side, nearly 200 feet.
476	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
•i
Notre Dame, Marell 29, 1879.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twelfth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal Gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
A weekly digest of the news at St Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Chinese Immigration.
The following veiy interesting letter from the Hon. Judge Fuller, of Coldwater, Mich., now sojourning for his health in California, will be read with interest. The ■ influx of Chinese into that State of late years has created no little dissatisfaction there, and it was only a few days ago that the President’s veto crippled an effort to put an end to, or restrict it It may be added that the question is one on which much difference of opinion exists; the Californians, with very few exceptions, set the Chinese down as an intolerable nuisance, whereas those who know nothing, or but little, of the Chinese are inclined to think the ill-feeling springs in great part from the jealousy of the white working-classes, brought into unwilling competition with the cheap labor of the Chinese immigrants. Owing to their manner of life, the latter can almost ‘ work for nothing and find themselves,’ thus placing the American laborer at disadvantageous odds. But might it not be, after all, the case that heavier and disastrous consequences may result in the not distant future if these barbarians are allowed to swarm, unrestrained, into the United States? If there were any prospect of civilizing them, or weaning them from their barbarous ways, it would be a strong plea in favor of immigration; but there is no such prospect.
•Judge Fuller’s letter is in answer to an inquiry from Very Rev. Father Sorin, C. S. C. The description it gives of the Chinese is one of the best we have seen.
Marysville, Cal., March 13,1879.
Dear Father General:—You want to know something of the Chinese here in California. I wish I knew more of them, and have been studying them as opportunity offered, but thus far they seem enigmatical. They have one redeeming trait—industry,—but are the most servile people I ever knew. They seem to be slaves to the men who brought them here. There are six companies of Chinamen, who hire out the menials; the latter work where they are set to work by their masters, and do any
thing they are told to do by them, cheerfully, and without complaint. They are apt to learn, and will do anything that they have once seen done. Neat in person as they appear on the streets, yet their domiciles are most filthy. Nauseating stenches emanate from them, observable as one passes along the streets. Many of them live in huts just outside of the Levee, and in high water they crawl out, with the rats, bringing loads of filthy bedclothes and furniture with them, the most disgusting to behold. This filthy condition is not confined to the menials, but is found in the abodes of the wealthy, though in a somewhat less degree. I was admitted to the sanctum of one of these, with my son and daughter-in-law, on their new-year’s day, 21st of January. It is a great day with them, and they keep up their celebration five or six days, expending large sums in burning fire crackers. One man, last year, is said to have paid $400 for fire-crackers, which he caused to be burned. The dignitary on whom we called is named Hong Wo. He is a leader of one of the companies spoken of above, and is said to be very wealthy. He is estimated to have at least $300,000 in this State. We first called at his store on 1st street, and on expressing a desire to see his wife and two children he consented—much to our surprise, as his wife had been confined to the second story, where he lives, over his store, from the time of her arrival here from China, six years ago, and not allowed to look out upon the face of nature or man—the veranda in front having been surrounded by boards eight feet high, and no man except her husband having ever before been admitted to her room. This partiality and favor to us spring from the great reverence they have for the attachees of Wells, Fargo & Co. Seeing me about the office, they called me “ Big Boss.” Well, in the abode of this wealthy Asiatic there is the same filthy appearance as in the hovels of the lowly, but not quite in the same degree. Yet his wife seemed quite clean in person, and neatly dressed.
No Chinaman has any sense of a moral principle, and their religion is purely pagan. Self-conceited, they believe in nothing that springs from the white race, and nothing can be taught them in science, literature, or religion. They have a joss-house here, in this city, and in other parts of California, where they worship their idols and burn their joss-sticks. Here, too, I have been gracefully admitted, and saw their joss-sticks burning, but saw no worship except singing psalms in their own language, and the creaking of instruments. They will lie, cheat, steal, rob, and murder the outside barbarian without compunction, and deem it a virtue to do so. We have two murderers in jail here, one of whom is to be jerked to his heathen heaven to-morrow. But neither he nor the rest of his race seem to care for that. There is no way to punish them but to cut off their queue; and before they took to cutting off this appendage at the State’s prison the Chinese had no dread of going there. Now they had rather hang by the neck than go to State’s prison. My opinion is that they never ought to have been allowed to come here, and the sooner the immigration is arrested, the better for the white race. Supposing the Emperor of China should take it into his head to colonize 50,000,000 or 75,000,000 of his subjects in these United States—and he could do it without, seemingly, depopulating his own Empire, what would become of our boasted liberty ? The leaders of the herds that come here are intelligent enough to use power when they get it.
There is a great future for these United States if our
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	47T
statesmen are wise and discreet; or we may suffer ourselves to be overrun by barbarians, peacefully at first, but forcibly ultimately, like Greece and Rome.
I have now extended this letter until I think it has ceased to be interesting to you, and will close by saying, simply, that I am pleased with the climate, the city and people—even the Chinee “ likeame.” My health is good, yet I cannot say this is a healthy climate. Certainly there 'liave been a great many deaths, in proportion to the population, since I have been here; and the inscriptions on the tablets in the cemetery indicate that the people die young.
With kind regards for yourself and all my good friends thereabouts,
I am yours most obediently,
E. G. Fuller.
Honor.
----
,	“ Victue-nud shame from no condition rise;
Act well your part—there all honor lies.”
l	That man is able to attain to a position of honor in any
calling of life is a fact which experience teaches. The word honor may be taken in many senses. It is respect, veneration, esteem, reverence paid to one person from or by another, and it is always supposed to be in acknowledgment of some good quality which the recipient possesses. Such was the idea which even the pagans had of honor, for while they honored a god of that name it was only through the temple of Virtue that anybody could have access to the temple of Honor.
Much more should honor be the reward of virtue non ficta, especially in this age of enlightenment and civilization. We are not speaking now of honor as bestowed by civil powers, for as this is the lowest title that can be conferred, it is also a gratuitous gift. The title “ Honorable ” gives to the receiver no claim to our esteem unless he possesses those virtues which should adorn the character of an honorable and virtuous man.
Honor and fame are to some extent synonymous, but a distinction may be made inasmuch as one is the consequence of the other, for when a man becomes famous he also claims our veneration and esteem. Such is the nature of society that we are impelled to give “ honor to whom honor is due ”; and such should be the case, for it is that which incites that laudable emulation of which the pagan historian speaks: “ 0nines homines, qui sese student press-tare aeteris animalibus, summa ope niti decet, ne mtam si- lentio transeant."
b	To seek such honor, and distinctions is not only lawful,
but praiseworthy; and society even demands, not indeed rivalry, but lawful emulation. “To win gold and wear it" should be the great aim of everyone, and in no place will such an effort be so happily rewarded as here in our glorious republic.
“The private path—the secret acts of men— If noble, far the noblest of their lives."
It is especially in the private life of a man that we find sufficient reason for honoring him. Military prowess, great enterprise, discoveries, not even victories gained by feats of arms, can give a man any claim to honor unless his private life be in keeping with the laws of morality and justice. When we look upon a man at a distance who has taken a prominent part on the stage of life, we consider b him to be something, but when we approach closer we often find we had been deceived. Strip that conqueror of
those laurels which he has gained, for which he fought; for no other end than the gratification of his sensuality and. ambition, and what shall he be ? Would those victories redound to his glory, while his plumes are moistened with the tears of innumerable widows and orphans and dyed with the blood of many noble youths? Assuredly not Take a way his plumage, and you will soon find him on a par with the Roman comedian’s very small man. There is a vast difference, therefore, between honor and fame, for the greatest warriors and most famous men of history have been as a rule the most notorious for all kinds of depravity and licentiousness.	-
In godless colleges we know that the prevailing idea is । that to be an honorable man is to have a leading part in every mischief set on foot, and if .you were to tell one of these that their conduct was not becoming, they might let you know that their‘honor’ was outraged. How many times did not a false idea of honor lead men to decide in. single combat!
Honor, respect, obedience and reverence are due to our superiors, no matter what may be their character in private life, nor is it becoming a young man to be led away by a false idea of what he might be pleased to call independence; no matter where a man is placed, his virtues will always appear, and will be admired the more that they come forth unselfishly.
In this world we need all sorts of men, and if a person fulfils virtuously the duties which devolve upon him in his particular state or calling, he will receive the honor and respect to which he is entitled. An honorable man will never lend himself to envy the superiority of others. The poor man.who is content with his apparently lowly station is not less deserving of respect than if he had been placed in a more exalted position.
The exalted position of a statesman and the social standing which a man attains by his abilities, bestow a certain amount of eminence and distinction. Those positions give an occasion for discovering latent talents, and bring them forth in bold relief, shining brilliantly and becoming val- -uable when employed in advancing the well being of man. Hence they frequently give rise to fame, but we must not mistake this for true honor/ While we admire his abilities, and even wish to equal him, yet we would not be classed with him who possesses distinction, if his private life is not irreproachable.
It is therefore evident that man’s true honor is not to be found in the mere accidental circumstances of fortune, nor in any single qualification which he may possess, but in that which forms the whole man. There must be something which entitles him to rank high among his fellow-men. He must possess the qualities of mind and soul which will irresistibly captivate those with whom he comes in contact; he must not yield to self-interest or curruption; he must be a man fully imbued with sentiments of sight and justice; he should be above yielding to any slavish fear or terror, but act his part with firmness and constancy; faithful in the discharge of the trusts confided to him and faithful to his religious duties. He should be amiable and cheerful with his friends, merciful to his enemies, and affa* ble and kind to all. If a superior, he.should always remember that he has to edify more by example than by words, and that he can never gain the confidence of his inferiors except by manifesting somewhat of self-denial. Nevertheless he must be alive to the necessity of not yielding to any weakness that might be an obstacle to the pub*
.478
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
lie good. He should be endowed with feelings of magnanimity, humility and justice, without being either proud, mean or harsh; stern in his acts when duty demands; and manly in his dealings; a man, in fine, on whose word one could rely with implicit confidence.
Personal.
—Very Rev. President Corby was in Chicago last Wednesday.
—A. Bergck (Commercial), of ’76, is doing well at Chicago, Ill.
—Bro. Ildefonse has been appointed prefect in the Senior ' Department.
—Mrs. Bachmann, of Noblesville, Ind., visited her here son last week.
—A. L. Mercer (Commercial), of ’71, is married and living in Goshen, Ind.
—P. W. McCauley (Commercial), of ’76, is practicing law at Exeter, Nebraska.
—G. Otero (Commercial), of ’75, is in business with his' father at Otero, Colorado.
—J. F. Lynn (Commercial), of ’73, is farming at Austin, Texas, where he is doing well.
—W. Hughes (Commercial), of ’75, is in the merchant tailoring business in Chicago, Ill.
—Frank Rose (Commercial), of ’76, is assisting his father in one of the largest business houses in Chicago, Ill.
—Rev. J. M. Toohey took the place of Rev. Father Becker at Michigan City, last Sunday, the latter being quite unwell. -
—Rev. Richard Maher has been appointed Chaplain at the St. Joseph Farm, woe Rev. J. Demers, who has gone to Austin, Texas.	• '
—Among the visitors this week were Mrs. F. Grever and Miss Clara Grever, Cincinnati, Ohio; and Mrs. Holt, Muskegon, Michigan.
—Clarence Faxon (Commercial), of’77, is at present engaged with the Western News Company, Chicago, Ill. A friend visiting him the other day found him in excellent health, and doing remarkably well.
—A telegram to the daily papers, dated Bloomington, Ill., March 21, announced that “ the Rev. Father William Murphy, curate of the Catholic Church of this city, died to-night at 11 o’clock, of congestion of the brain, after an-illness of less than one week. He was aged 36, born in Philadelphia, educated at Notre Dame, Milwaukee and Belgium, and had served as a priest in Chicago and this city for about thirteen years. He was a great favorite of all classes, and will be greatly mourned by all.”
Local Items.
—Navigation on the lakes here is now open.
—The Bulletins will be made out on Wednesday next.
—Competitions next week in the Preparatory Department.
—Jumping seem$ to be the favorite sport amongst the Seniors.
—The rain last Wednesday sadly interfered with outdoor sports. .
—Recreations on Wednesdays now last until half-past six o’clock.
—It is surprising to see what a number~of tramps visit Notre Dame every day.
\ —The swing in the Junior yard is well patronized by t those who excel in jumping.
j —During the fine weather, most of the boys go walking through the surrounding country.
j	—The pedestrian' mania has at last attacked the students.
Who will offer a belt to be walked for?
J —The altar in the College chapel has been repaired and "painted lately, and now looks very fine.
—The public debate of the members of the Columbian Society will take place in Easter week.
\ —At the late spelling-bee in the class in the Preparatory department, Master O. Farrelly came off victor.
—The Corresponding Secretary of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception is a most efficient one.
—The name of P. J. Hagan was by mistake omitted from the List of Excellence, for Elocution, last week. J —Everybody should remember that it is their right to patronize the Scholastic box in the College corridor.
I —A new foot-ball has been procured for the Seniors, and now we expect that there will be some fine games amongst them.
—In a short while the young fishermen will be seen on the banks of the lakes. Look out for a rush for fishing tackle.
/ —A large number of the classes in the Preparatory 'Department have been visited by the Rev. Director of Studies.
t —The Senior Campus would be a fine place for a good ^walking-match. Will not some of the boys start one some Wednesday?
j —The members of the Boat Club have begun putting the boat bouse in repair and have taken the boats out of winter quarters.
—A friend presented the other day to the Circulating Library a set of Breviaries used by the founder, the late Rev. A. Lemonnier.
—Last Tuesday being too cold for baseball, the members of the Junior Department took a long walk, which they enjoyed very much.
—We learn from our exchanges that St. Patrick’s Day was, as usual, celebrated in grand style throughout the United States and Canada.
—On the 23d a game of baseball was played by the Young Americans and the Actives, resulting in favor of the former by a score of 7 to 10.	.
t —The members of the Junior Archconfraternity went 'to Holy Communion in a body on the Feast of the Annunciation, and attended High Mass in regalia.
—Too bad for the boys that Wednesday last was so wet; a lively game of baseball was anticipated, and very probably a walking match amongst the Juniors.
j —The baseball clubs in the Junior department were to yplay last Wednesday for the choice of grounds, but the rain prevented their doing so. They will play the games the coming week.
/ —Very Rev. Father General received $10 from one of his Alinims for the new Chapel of the Sacred Heart. The ^generous donor, Master Willie Rea, of Trenton, N. J., has the thanks of Very Rev. Father General.
/ —To-morrow being Passion Sunday, the usual sermon ' will not be given, but after Mass the way of the Cross will be made. The Missa de Angelis will be sung. Vespers are of the Sunday, page 83 of the Vesperal.
—Boating on the lakes will soon be the sport of the members of the Boat Club. We think there ought ■ to be more boats here. Why is there not a rival club here ? It would make the races much more interesting.
,—A very interesting and instructive lecture on “Magnetism and Electricity” was given in Phelan Hall on 'Thursday last, by Rev. J. A. Zahm. The Rev. lecturer illustrated his remarks by many fine experiments.
—The work done in the tailor-shop and shoe-shop connected with the Manual Labor School at Notre Dame is ^df an excellent grade. Indeed the shoemakers here have time and again, carried off the premium for good work at tne fairs .held in South Bend.
—A lively game of hand-ball took place on last Tuesday Sorning between the “ fat ” and “ slim ” boys of the Junior epartment. The fats won the game. Who says that fat boys are not lively enough to play, even if some of them do weigh two hundred and two pounds?
—The Philopatrians are beginning to think over what
*

4
1
TSE NOTRE SAME SCHOLASTIC.	479
they will get up for their Entertainment to he given this spring. So far this year, no Society has given more than one Exhibition. All have appeared in Washington Hall except the Philopatrians, so it is their turn next.
—The Columbians return a vote of thanks to M. Bannon, Sr., for the beautiful statue of the Blessed Virgin which* he lately presented to them for their Society room. The same gentleman has sent to Chicago for a bust of Stephen A. Douglas, which he intends to give the Columbians.
—The twenty-eighth regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society was held on Friday evening, the 22d inst. Master French delivered an original speech. Dec-lamatioms were delivered by G. Guthrie, E. G. Sugg, C. Rietz, H. Canoll, W. McDevitt, 0. Farrelly, A. Mergen-theim, J. Halle and C. VanMourick.
—On Tuesday last, the Feast of the Annunciation, Solemn High Mass was celebrated with Rev. L. J. L’Etourneau as celebrant, Rev. T. E. Walsh deacon, Rev. P. J. Erari^ ciscus subdeacon, and Mr. J. J. Sullivan, C. S. C., master of ceremonies. Very Rev. President Corby delivered a fine sermon explaining the meaning of the feast.
—The 10th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held March 22d. Masters McGrath, W. Coghlin, Nelson, Schmuckle, Jos. Courtney, Garrity, A. Coghlin, Woodson, Van Mourick and Rhein-boldt delivered declamations. Masters Fitzgerald and Woodson enlivened the meeting with some songs.
—The anniversary meeting of the Sodality of the B. V. M. was held on Wednesday, March 26th. A sketch of the “Life of St. Patrick” was read by James Ward. Questions were answered by W. Healy—“ What is Lent ? ” and J. Ryan—“How to make the Sign of the Cross.” The ten-minute instruction was given by Rev. Father Toohey.
—There will be an Entertainment given this evening by the members of the Class of Elocution. Original discourses will be given by Messrs. Bannon, Spalding and Dougherty. The subjects are “ Daniel Webster,” “ Henry Clay,” and “ O’Connell.” A number of declamations will be given. The Entertainment will take place in Washington Hall.
—The twenty-ninth regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association took place on Saturday, March 23d. The following delivered declamations: Masters F. Bloom, T.F. McGrath, K. Scanlan, A. Zahm, W. McCarty, E. Murphy, G. Schnull, G. Orr, A. Rock, F. Phillips, G. Foster, J. Mug ,W. I. Jones, E. P. Walters, E. Piekenbrock, W. Rietz, F. Clarke, F. Grever, F. Weisert, A. Caren, and E.Fogarty. A well-written composition was read by Master R. T. Williams.
—Despite the disagreeable weather we had on Wednesday last, the Minims had a walking match in their yard, in which the one covering the most ground in four hours was to be the victor. Quite a number of the little fellows' started in, but found out in a short time that they were as yet unable to walk very much. However, a few of the larger ones did well, Master A. Coghlin covering the most ground in the specified time, and Masters Courtney and Garrick coming next.	.
—It is right to take great interest in the competitions, as on them depend the gold-medal prizes for the various courses; but it is all wrong to take unfair means to obtain the first place. A boy or young man who in class will deal dishonestly with his teachers and fellow-pupils is not a safe one to pin to. A merchant’s money is no more safe in his hands than was the honor of his fellows in class. There is no report from the 1st Geography (Sr.) Class this week. This will, perhaps, explain why.
—One of the pleasantest social events of the season was the Conversazione held in Washington Hall by the Columbians on the evening of March 25lh, the sixth anniversary of the founding of their Literary Club. The most pleasing part of the Entertainment was the reading by Mr. J. Mc-Eniry of Rev. Father Walworth’s Lecture on “Ghosts,” a reply to Ingersoll’s effusion on the same subject. Music of a high order was furnished by Messrs. Miller and Cochrane. The socials of the Columbians have become proverbial as occasions of rare and refined enjoyment.
—Very Rev. Father General honored the members of the Elocution Class with a visit last weeh- After hearing
them read, the Very Rev. Father gave some practical instructions on elocution, at the same time expressing his satisfaction at the progress made since his last visit. He noticed in a special manner the reading of Masters A. M.* Coghlin and W. 9. Coghlin, of Toledo, Ohio; G. J. Rho-dius, Indianapolis, Ind.; F. P. Brady, Tuscaloosa, Ala.; N. P. Nelson, Chicago, Ill.; and C. B. Crowe, Milwaukee, Wis. A word of praise is always an encouragement to a student, but coming from Very Rev. Father General its value is increased in proportion to the veneration and affection in which he is held by the students.
—The members of the Lemonnier Library Association return thanks to Thomas Keenan, Esq., of Lindsay, Ontario, Canada, for “Life and Times of W. L. Mackenzie and the Rebellion of 1837-8, by Charles Lindsay, Toronto, 1862; and for a “ Manual of the Corporation of the City of New York,” compiled by Joseph Shannon, profusely illustrated. They are indebted to Rev. John Ford for “England’s .Conversion and Reformation Compared"; or,-the Young Gentleman Directed in the Choice of his Religion; to which is premised a Brief Enquiry into the General Grounds of the Catholic Faith, in a Conversation Between a Young Gentleman and his Preceptor,” Antwerp, 1753; A friend has placed in the Library “An Appeal to the Protestant Public,” by Demetrius A. Gallitzin, Ebensburg, 1819.
—Last Wednesday afternoon a very exciting walking match took place in the Minim Department. The programme arranged among the contestants was to walk 15 miles in 4 consecutive hours. The length of the track necessitated seven laps to a mile. Master A. Coghlin, of Toledo, Ohio, was declared the champion pedestrian of the Minims at the end of the match, having made 132 laps, or 18-miles and six-sevenths in four hours. Jas. Courtney of Washington, D. C., made 132 laps also, but a few minutes later than the first mentioned. The other contestants, mentioned in the order of merit, are as follows: N. Nelson, of Chicago, 131 laps; C. Garrick, of Chicago, 130 laps; H. Snee, of Chicago, 130 laps. A. Campau and A. Hierb acted as scorers. The youthful pedestrians were at their studies punctually the next morning, strongly asserting that they were none the worse for their tramp of the preceding day.
—The “ army ” of tramps that infest the neighborhood are becoming a perfect nuisance—more than that, destruc-tionists—stealing wood from the neighbors, levelling fences for fire-wood, stealing coal from the cars on the side track of the M. C. R. R., and burning it in heaps at -their haunts in the deep ruts near the lime-yard and in Johnson’s woods. They are said to be some forty or fifty in number, the same gang remaining here for several weeks and then changingoff with another gang. Many of the neighbors have to keep a regular watch during the night and on Sundays, taking turns in guard-duty. Most of the people residing in the neighborhood have put in a supply of fire-arms to defend themselves in case of attack. These fellows take turns also in visiting the refectories at the College for something to eat, generally in threes, fours, eights or tens, and keeping up an almost constant raid on the refectories throughout the day. Heretofore the College authorities never liked to send anyone away hungry, but gave them only bread and coffee of late, since they got so numerous and repeat their visits so often—sometimes the same gang for weeks at a time. Bnt things cannot go on thus. If there is any law to be had for the protection of peaceable, industrious citizens it should be put in force. No one wishes to refuse a hungry wayfarer something to eat, but supporting this “army” of tramps is a different thing. We understand that some of the neighbors have had to drive them away from their doors or wood-sheds several times with fire-arms. It is about time that some general and concerted course of action be taken to rid the neighborhood of this growing nuisance.
—During a rehearsal, Brahm said to Tom Cook, who was the conductor: “Now, Tom, keep the piano quiet here, because just at this part, to give effect, I intend dropping my voice.” “Doyon? By the powers,” said Tom, “ whereabouts? for it’s just the sort of voice I should like to pick up.”	"	.	-	- • .•
r .xc
480
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Report of the Proceedings of the Botany Class.
„ On the genial afternoon of the 25th of March the Botany Class held its first field-meeting. Traces of snow still lingered in fence-corners, but vegetation was already in its early stages, and sufficient objects of interest were found to occupy the class for three hours during a pleasant walk of some miles. Passing through the college front garden, promising sprouts of the Tulipa Gesneriana and Narcissus pseudoNarcissus were observed appearing above the soil, to bloom during the coming month of April; but the Pianthus plumarius with which the borders are edged appeared to have suffered somewhat from the frosts of February. As we passed from the garden to the fields of triticum vulgare var. hiemale which lie between the college and the river, we did not observe so much damage from the alternate thawings and freezings as might have been anticipated; all seemed green and flourishing.
Proceeding onwards to the banks and braes of bonnie St. Joseph, vegetation became of a more varied character. The catkins of several of the amentaceous trees—two species of Salix and one of Populus, besides the well-known " lambs’ tails ” of the Gorylus rostrata Were bursting into bloom. Mr. Walsh secured a specimen of the Caltha palus-tris, onwhich the buds were sufficiently developed to exhibit a trace of the yellow color which would shortly spread over the whole blossom. The bud being opened, the stamens and pistils were readily distinguished. In the same brook were gathered the green shoots of Nasturtium officinale which were duly appreciated. The merit of having discovered the first flower of the season belongs to Mr. R. D. Stewart, who presented the class with a splendid specimen of the Symplocarpus factidus, whose purple-streaked spathe, containing a spadix of still deeper hue, became at once an object of general interest. The leaves and buds of Hepatica triloba covered the high banks of the river, the buds being so far advanced as to promise expansion before the close of the present month; and a large tree, the Acer rubrum was already attracting the insect world by its blossoms.
Zoology offered attractions even superior to those afforded by Botany. The marshes were already vocal with the earlier Banidcc and the woods with the songs of various birds, among which we may mention the Spizella socialis, the Harporhynchus rufus, the Sidlia sialis and the Turdus migratoriu8. Mr. Keenan devoted considerable attention to Ophidia, and secured three very lively specimens of the genus Eutania, which he succeeded in partially domesticating, although not until vitality had become nearly extinct. Several extensive burrowings or excavations in the wilder parts of the forest became the subject of discussion among Messrs. McGorrisk, McEniry, McGrath and Bannon, as to whether the occupant were an Arctomys, a Vulpes, a Mephitis, or a Procyon. The Mephitis hypothesis prevailing, the Class decided not to dig the animal out.
The medicinal character of the water of St. Patrick’s spring formed the next theme of general interest, and Mr. Krost promised to favor the company with the result of a chemical analysis which he intended to make at an early day. The gathering clouds in the west and the chilly evening wind now admonished the gentlemen that the geniality of March weather was not too implicitly to be relied upon, and they turned their steps towards their Alma Mater by a different route. A complete flora of Northern Indiana, so far as the spring months will enable the class to observe vegetation, may be expected from the ardor with which it has already begun to prosecute its researches during the present season.
Eichenlich U. East, Secretary of the Glass for 1879.
Roll of Honor.
[The following are the names of those students who during the past week have by their exemplary conduct given satisfaction to all the members of the Faculty.]
■	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. F. Arentz, R. M. Anderson, M. W. Bannon, M. H. Bannon, A J. Burger, J. B. Berteling, M. T. Burns, J. M. Byrne, J. G. Baker, Thos. Barrett, T. Conlan, Wm. Connolly, B. J. Claggett, W. Carpenter, G. Cochrane, Di Coddington, G. P. Cassidy, P.
Dougherty, D. Donohue, J. H. Delaney, J. Downey, F. Devoto, L. J. Evers, J. Eberhart, M. J. Hogan, A. J. Hertzog, J. Herrmann, J. Harrison, C. W. Hickerson, P. Horn, J. P. Kinney, F. Keller, W. Kreig, P. B. Larkin, A A Lent, W. J. Murphy, C. Mueller, E. J. Maley, M. J. McCue, J. B. McGrath, W. B. McGorrisk, M. McEniry, J. J. McErlain, W. McGee, R. C. O’Brien, L. N. Proctor, J. P. Quinn, J. P. Quinn, W. Ryan, M. Reilly, S. T. Spalding, J. Spalding, J. J. Shugrue, T. W. Simms, J. Simms, G. E. Sugg, E. Schifferle, P. Shea, T. S. Bummers, P. Vogel, F. Williams, F. X. WaU, W. Wilson, J. J. Kotz, E. ■ Dempsey.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
M. J. Burns, J. M. Boose, F. Becker, J. G. Brady, J. C. Casey, G. C. Castanedo, H. E. Canoil, A. A Caren, F. L. Clarke, W. D. Cannon, J. V. Cable, G. H. Donnelly, J. W. Devitt, L. D. Dimick, E. C. Esmer, R. L. French, M. L. Foote, G. C. Foster, J. W. Guthrie, F. Glade, F. T. Gaffney, F. H. Grever, J. L. Halle, J. Haney, J. B. Inderrieden, G. C. Knight, J. A. Lumley, E. Murphy, A. B. Mergentheim, J. L. Morgan, W. J. McCarthy, J. F. Mug, W. A McDevitt, H. G. Niles, G. N. Osher, G. Orr, H. F. Devitt, E. B. Piekenbrock, A P. Perley, A. Ritz, C. Terry, A. Rock, J. M. Scanlan, J. A Seeger, G. A Sehnull, E. G. Sugg, F. C. Scheid, J. K. Schoby, C. P. Van Mourick, E. S. Walter, A. F. Zahm.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. S. Coghlin, H. Snee, C. M. Long, H. W. Bachmann, A M. Coghlin, J. Couitney, J. McGrath, C. H. McGrath, A. Hierb, P. 8. Fitzgerald, C. L. Garrick, G. Tonrtillotte, P. F. Brady, N. P. Nelson, J. A Crowe, H. A. Kitz, A. Chirhart, C. Woodson, J. S. Inderrieden, C. J. Welty, T. McGrath, E. Howard, E. S. Chirhart, L. J. Young, J. Chaves, I. C. Williams, A Rheinboldt, J. H. Garrity, F. B Farrelly, W. V. O’Malley, P. Campau, A. J. Campau, F. I. Garrity, C. Young, G. J. Rhodius, J. J. Gordon.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
commercial course.
J. Casey, J. G. Brady, A. Rietz, W. Rietz, A. Rock, J. Osher, L. Dimick, F. Phillips, F. Grever, W. McCarthy, J. F. Mug, J. A. Lumley, K. Scanlan, A. Lent, E. Dempsey, J. Arentz, T. Hale, 8. P. Terry, T. Conlan, E. Calkins, P. B. Larkin, T. Barrett, J. Byrne, R. P. Mayer, C. F. Mueller, F. Keller, W. Ryan, F. Smith, J. McErlain, M. Reilly, J. F. Simms, W. Krieg, P. H. Vogel, F. Williams, J. Herman, T. Summers, M. Hogan, D. Coddington.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the competitions which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—E. Maley; Grammar—M. Hogan, C. Mueller, E. Dempsey, W. McCarthy, J. Brady ; Geography and History—C. Rietz, F. Philips, J. Mug, J. Schobey, J. Gibbons, A. 8. Rock; Arithmetic—F. Grever, J. Herrmann; Penmanship—G. Crawford, E. J. Maley, T. Conlan, W. McCarthy, G. Sehnull, E. 8. Walter, J. F. Mug; Book-Keeping—A. Lent, C. F. Mueller, P. B. Larkin, J. F. Arentz, E. Dempsey, E. Maley, E. Calkins, T. Barrett, W. Rietz, J. Buchanan, A. 8. Rock, T. F. McGrath, R. Mayer, J. Herrman, T. Hale, J. Byrne, J. Delaney, J. Bell, 8. P. Terry, J. Casey, T. Conlan, A Rietz, F. Phillips, C. Hickerson, G. Crawford, W. Krieg, J. F. Simms, W. Ryan, P. Horne, P. Vogel, J. Kotz, J. Osher.

—The equinoctial storm spent its fury elsewhere.
'—Graduates and Seniors spend Thursday afternoons cooking all sorts of nice things.
—St. Catharine’s Literary Society return their thanks to Prof. Edwards for two beautifully bound volumes of the Ate Maria.
—On Lactate Sunday Very Rev. Father General said Mass in Loretto. High Mass was sung by Rev. Father Hudson, C. S. C., and the sermon, “ On Prayer,” preached by Rev. Father Saulnier, C. S. 0.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	481
—Visitors during the week—Mr. Nicholas Mulligan, New York; Mrs. Reilly, Mrs. Kilroy, Mrs. Brady, Laporte; Mrs. Rhodius, Miss Scotzen, Mr. R. C. Cole, Indianapolis; Mr. Goolow, Mound City; Mrs. Arlington, Chicago; Mrs. Wallace, Chicago; Mrs. Usselman, Goshen; Mrs. Killelea, Ottawa, Ill.; Mr. B. Walters, Fort Wayne; Mr. Cooper, Miss Hadley, Niles, Mich.; Mr. J. Morris, Richmond, Ind.; Miss Ellen McEwen, Chicago, Ill.
—At the Academic weekly reunion Miss Hills read the “Army of the Lord,” by Adelaide Procter; Miss Silver-thorn, in French, “Travail et Industrie, ou Dix Mille Livres de Rente,”—from “ La Semaine des Enfants,” by A. V. Arnault; Miss Caroline Gall, in German, a short piece of poetry," Maria, ” from the “Marien Kalendar ”; and ’ Miss Adelaide Kerchner, “The Chemist’s Dream,” by Dr. House. Very Rev. Father^General, after thanking the readers, spoke at length on the custom of giving the Golden Rose on Latare Sunday by the Popes, for many centuries, to the most worthy among the Catholic queens of Europe. He drew some beautiful comparisons between the life and virtues of a Christian lady and her emblem, the “Queen of Flowers,” and spoke of the long-established custom at St. Mary’s of giving the Rose to one of the pupils who, during a stay of some years in the Academy, had always given general satisfaction. After serious con-I sideration of the claims of the candidates for the honor, Miss Moran was named, and the joyful applause which followed testified the pleasure of her companions.
Boll of Honor.
ACADEMIC COURSE.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
Graduating Class—Misses Hope Russell, Ida Fisk, Sarah Moran, Louisa Kelly.
1st8r. Class—Misses Ellen McGrath, Clara Sil verthorn, Teresa Killelea, Aurelia Mulhall, Eleanor Keenan, Annie Woodin, Sarah Hambleton, Zod Papin, Anna Maloney.
►	2d Sr. Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Ellen Galen, Catha-
rine Hackett, Angela Ewing, Catharine Danaher, Philomena Wolford, Mary Sullivan, Annie Cavenor, Harriet Buck, Grace Glasser, Mary Brown, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Adella Gordon, Catharine Lloyd, Mary Plattenburg, Emma Shaw, Elizabeth Walsh, Alice Farrell, Elizabeth Schwass.
3d Sr. Class—Misses Angela Dillon, Henrietta Rosing, Anna Cortright, Alicia Donelan, Anna McGrath, Lucie Chilton, Adella Geiser, Agnes Joyce, Pauline Hills, Catharine Hoadley, Annie Jones, Ellena Thomas, Louisa Neu, Martha Wagoner, Mary Usselman, Catharine Claffey, Ellen Mulligan, Josephine Mitchell.
1st Preparatory Class—Misses Mary Fitzgerald, Mary Mullen, Marie Dallas, Mary Feehan, Kathleen Wells, Della McKerlie, Ollie Williams, Linda Fox, Ina Capelle, Anna Hermann, Minna Loeber, Julia Barnes, Mary English, Caroline Gall.
2d Prep. Class—Misses Teresa Zahm, Mary Campbell, Lilly Lancaster, Annie Orr, Mary Hake, Charlotte Van Namee.
2d DiV.—Misses Mabel Hamilton, Ida Torrent, Bridget Kelly, Ellen Kinzie, Sarah Purdy, Minnie Cox.
Junior Prep.—Misses Sabina Semmes, Julia Wells, Maud Casey, Elise Lavoie, Mary Lyons, Mary Garrity, Matilda Kil-daire, Angela Watson, Mary Chirhart, Sophie Papin, Mary Paquette, Elise Dallas, Ellen Lloyd, Celestine Lemontey.
1st Jr.—Misses Ada Clarke, Julia Cleary, Elise Papin, Jessie Pampel, Elizabeth Consadine, Minnie Fisk.
[	2d Jr.—Misses Jane McGrath, Blanche de Chantal Garrity,
p Isabella Scott.
3d Jr.—Misses Manuelita Chaves, Alice Esmer. french composition.
1st Class—Misses Eleanor Keenan, Clara Silverthorn, Ellen McGrath, Annie McGrath.
2d Div.—Misses Henrietta Rosing, Aurelia Mulhall, Ellen Galen, Marie Dallas, E ise Lavoie, Celestine Lemontey.
2d Class—Misses Zod Papin, Elizabeth Kirchner, lorantha Semmes, Grace Glasser, Ella Mulligan.
3d Class—Misses Angela Ewing, 100; Emma Shaw, Lucie Chilton, Mary Birch, Mary Casey, Mary Mulligan, Martha Wagner.
2d Div.—Misses Annie Cavenor, Annie Cortright, Annie Maloney, Louisa Neu, 100; Mary Brown, Mary Campbell, Julia Butts, Laura French, Linda Fox.
4th Class—Misses Philomena Wolford, Annie Ryan, Ollie Williams, Mary Feehan, Johanna Baroux, Katie Wells, Annie Jones.
2d Div.—Misses Sabina Semmes, Julia Cleary, Isabella Hackett, Josephine Mitchell.
[	GERMAN.
t	1st Class—Misses Adelaide Kirchner, Adelaide Geiser, Re-
becca Neteler, Annie Hermann, Caroline Gall, Mary Usselman.
2d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Elizabeth Walsh, Martha Pampel, Elizabeth Schwass.
3d Class—Misses Louisa Kelly, Ria Capelle, Minna Loeber, Alice Farrell, Catharine Hackett, Catharine Claffey, Charlotte Van Namee.
4th Class—Misses Martha Pampel, Alice Donelan, Mary Fitzgerald, Catharine Ward, Agnes Joyce, Catharine Hoadley, Annie Woodin, Mabel Hamilton, Maud Casey, Jnlia Butts, Mary Chirhart, Martha Zimmerman, Matilda Kildaire, Alice Esmer.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
Graduating Class—Misses Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Elizabeth Kirchner, Minerva Spier.
1st Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
2d Div.—Miss Eleanor Keenan.
2d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck, Angela Dillon.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Usselman, Mary Sullivan, Henrietta Rosing, Teresa Killelea, Louisa Neu.
3d Class—Misses Annie McGrath, Mary Brown, Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Campbell, Emma Lange, Alice Farrell, Catharine Hoadley, Aurelia Mulhall.
2d Div.—Misses Mary McGrath, Elizabeth Walsh, Caroline Gall, Catharine Hackett, Anna Maloney.
4th Class—Misses Annie Cortright, Mary Mullen, Marie Dallas, Mary English, Emma Shaw, Kathleen Wells.
2d Div.—Misses Annie Hermann, Ann Leydon. Zoe Papin, Angela Ewing, lorantha Semmes, Ellen Hackett.
5th Class—Misses Martha Pampel, Annie Woodin, Mabel Hamilton, Annie Cavenor, Ida Torrence, Josephine Mitchel], Della McKerlie, Marie Plattenburg, Charlotte Van Namee, Laura French.
2d Div.—Misses Mary Garrity, Annie Jones, Sarah Purdy, Mary Birch, Linda Fox, Mary Mulligan, Minna Loeber, Elizabeth Schwass, Agnes Joyce, Mary Hake, Eleanor Thomas, Paulina Hills, Catharine Danaher, Matilda Kildaire.
6th Class—Misses Mary Casey, Bridget Kelly, Julia Wells, Maud Casey, Rebecca Neteler, Annie Orr, Ellen Cavanagh, Elise Dallas, Mary Feehan, Ellen Mulligan.
2d Div.—Misses Agnes iMcKinnis, Catharine Lloyd, Johanna Baroux, Alicia Donelan, Philomena Wolford, Lucie Chilton, Mary McFadden, Annie Ryan, Grace Glasser, Mary Fitzgerald, Ellen Kinsey, Catharine Ward, Julia Barnes, Lally Lancaster.
7th Class—Misses Elise Papin, Julia Cleary, Mary Chirhart, Isabella Hackett.
8th Class—Misses Blanche Garrity, Martha Zimmerman, Ada Clarke, Manuelita Chaves.
2d Div.—Misses Ellen Lloyd, Emma Fisk, Julia Butts.
9th Class—Misses Alice Esmer, Angela Watson, Celestine Lemontey.
Harp—2d Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
3d Class—Misses Angela Dillon, lorantha Semmes, Mary Brown, Mary Campbell, 'Alice Farrell, Annie McGrath.
Organ—Miss A. Hermann.
Harmony—1st Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Elizabeth Kirchner, Clara Silverthorn, Minerva Spier.
2d Class—Miss Ellen Galen.
3d Class—Misses Adella Gordon, Harriet Buck.
Elementary Thorough Bass Class—Misses Emma Lange, Adelaide Kirchner, Mary Brown, Angela Dillon, Eleanor Keenan, Teresa Killelea, Mary Sullivan, Alice Farrell, Mary McGrath, Mary Usselmann, Annie McGrath, Elizabeth Walsh, Louisa Neu, Mary Campbell.
General Theoretical Classes—Best notes for the week— Misses Caroline Gall, Angela Ewing, Catharine Hackett, Annie Maloney, Mary Mullen, Kathleen Wells, Marie Dallas, Annie Hermann, Catharine Danaher, Martha Pampel, Agnes Joyce, Rebecca Neteler, Mabel Hamilton, Eleanor Thomas, Elizabeth Schwass, Mary Casey, Mary Campbell, Laura French, Emma Shaw, Mary Plattenburg, Catharine Claffey, Pauline Hills, Ida Torrent, Josephine Mitchell, Grace Glasser, Mary Fitzgerald, Alicia Donelan, Lucie Chilton, Linda Fox. Philomena Wolford, Annie Orr, Mary Garrity, Maud Casey, Alice Esmer, Mary Chirhart, Martha Zimmerman, Elise Papin, Julia Cleary, Julia Butts, Ada Clarke, Catharine Ward, Ellen Lloyd, Manuelita Chaves, Blanche Garrity, Minnie Fisk.
Technical Exercises—Misses Adella Geiser, Clara Silverthorn, Minerva Spier, Elizabeth Kirchner, Ellen Galen, Eleanor Keenan, Harriet Buck, Adella Gordon, Angela Dillon, Mary Usselmann, Mary Sullivan, Henrietta Rosing, Louisa Neu, Adelaide Kirchner, Emma Lange, Catharine Hoadley, Elizabeth Walsh, Aurelia Mulhall, Caroline Gall, Catharine Hackett, Annie Cortright, Mary Dallas, Mary English, Kathleen Wells, Emma Shaw, Anna Hermann, Angela Ewing, Martha Pampel, Mabel Hamilton, Ida Torrence.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
1st Class—Miss Elizabeth Kirchner.
2d Div.—Miss Adelaide Kirchner.
2d Class—Misses Clara Silverthorn, Mary Usselman, Adella Gordon.
3d Class—Misses Adelaide Geiser, Catharine Hackett, Alice Farrell, Aurelia Mulhall.
i
482
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
I ft
J
I
4th Class—Misses Emma Shaw, Mary MeGrath, Zod Papin, Anna McGrath.
5th Class—Misses Hattie Buck, Sarah Purdy, Mary English, Mary Mulligan, Ina Capelie, Mary Plattenburg, Laura French, Mary Hake, Martha Wagner.
ART DEPARTMENT.
DRAWING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED IN THE
3d Class—Misses Catharine Campbell, Mary Sullivan, Angela Ewing, Elizabeth Schwass, Mary English, Julia Butts, Sarah Purdy, lorantha Semmes, Sophie Papin, Maud Casey, Minnie Loeber, Ellen Mulligan.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLOBS.
1st Class—Misses Rebecca Neteler, Sarah Moran.
2d Class—Misses Marie Plattenburg, Hope Russell, Teresa Killelea, Marie Dallas, Angela Dillon, Anna Cortright, Mary Campbell, Laura French, Ellena Thomas.
oil-painting.
1st Class—Misses Elizabeth Kirchner, Emma Lange.
3d Class—Misses Agnes Joyce, Harriet Buck, Sarah Hambleton.
GENERAL DRAWING CLASS.
SENIOB DEPABTMENT.
Misses Josephine Mitchell, Caroline Gall, Teresa Zahm, Minnie Loeber, Martha Pampel, Ella Cavanagh, Catharine Hackett, Catharine Danaher, Mary Campbell, Ina Capelie, Annie Jones, Mary English, Alieia Donelan, Catharine Lloyd, Mary Hake, Bridget Kelly, Mabel Hamilton, Ollie Williams, Martha Wagner, Ida Torrent, Mary Fitzgerald.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Catharine Campbell, Sophie Papin, Catharine Claffey, Agnes McKinnis, Laura French, Anna McGrath, Annie Orr, Ella Mulligan, Ellen Lloyd, Johanna Baroux, Charlotte Van Namee, L. Fox, Mary Lyons, Mary Chirhart, Mary Paquette, Julia Wells, Margaret Cleghorn, Marie McN. Garrity, Blanche de Chantal Garrity, Elise Dallas, Ada Clarke, Julia Cleary, Elizabeth Gon-sadine, Elise Papin, Alice Esmer, Elise Lavoie, Jessie Pampel, Mary Feehan, Isabella Scott, Matilda Kildaire, Lilly Lancaster, Annie Leydon, Angela Watson, Celestine Lemontey, Minnie Cox, Jane McGrath, Martha Zimmermann, Minnie Fisk.
ORNAMENTAL NEEDLEWORK.
1st Class—Misses Annie Herman, Louisa Neu, Mary Hake, Sarah Purdy, Alice Donelan, Della McKerlie, Adelaide Bisby, Elizabeth Schwass. Rebecca Neteler.
2d Div.—Misses Ellena Thomas, Mary Sullivan, Angela Dillon, Lucie Chilton, Marie Plattenburg, Minna Loeber, Ollie Williams, Mary Casey, Agnes Joyce, Annie Cavenor, Grace Glasser.
For politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and correct deportment, the following young ladies are enrolled on the
Tablet of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Hope Russell, Sarah Moran, Clara Silverthorn, Annie Maloney, Teresa Killelea, Zo6 Papin, Aurelia Mulhall, Ellen Galen, Catharine Hackett, Emma Lange, Rebecca Neteler, Alice Farrell, Mary Brown, Emma Shaw, Catharine Danaher, Annie Ryan, Catharine Ward, Mary Sullivan, Philomena Wolford, Grace Glasser, Annie Cavenor, lorantha Semmes, Mary Ussel-man, Lucie Chilton, Henrietta Rosing, Angela Dillon, Alicia Donelan, Anna Cortright, Agnes Joyce, Catharine Hoadley, Julia Barnes, Mary Mullen, Minnie Loeber, Kathleen Wells, Mary Fitzgerald, Annie Hermann, Ollie Williams, Teresa Zahm, Mary Campbell,Mabel D. Hamilton, Bridget Kelly, par excellence. Misses Ida Fisk, Louisa Kelly, Ellen McGrath, Eleanor Keenan, Anna Woodin, Mary Birch, Sarah Hambleton, Mary Casey, Adella Kirchner,Elizabeth Walsh, MaryjPlattenburg, Elizabeth,Schwass, Harriet Buck, Elizabeth Kirchner, Adelaide Geiser, Anna Jones, Ellena Thomas, Louisa Neu, Josephine Mitchell, Martha Wagner, Pauline Hills, Mary English, Caroline Gall, Della McKerlie, Martha Pampel, Adelaide Bisby, Mary Hake, Ida Torrent, Ellen Kinzie, Sarah Purdy.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Annie McGrath, Catharine Claffey, Ellen Mulligan, Linda Fox, Marie Dallas, Agnes McKinnis, Johanna Baroux, Charlotte Van Namee, Annie Orr, Ellen Hackett. Lilly Lancaster, Annie Leyden, Maud Casey, Mary Cox, Mary Garrity, Sabina Semmes, Angela Watson, Celestine Lemontey, Mary Paquette, Mary Chirhart, Julia Cleary, Isabella Scott, Manuelita Chaves, par excellence. Misses Angela Ewing, Mary Mulligan, Sophie Papin, Elise Lavoie, Matilda Kildaire, Ada Clarke, Jessie Pampel, Elizabeth Consadine, Elise Papin, Isabella Hackett, Jane McGrath, Alice Esmer.
—A very loquacious female witness, whom the opposing counsel could not silence, so far kept him at bay that, by way of browbeating her, he exclaimed, “Why, woman, there’s brass enough in your face to make a kettle.” “And sauce enough in yours,” she instantly rejoined, “ to fill it.”
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 10,1878, trains will leave South Bend follows:
GOING EAST.
9 25 a. m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo 9 SO; Cleveland 2 30p m; Buffalo 8 05 p.m.
11 OS am, Mail.over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5 25 pm: Cleveland 1010 pm; Buffalo, lam.
19 16 p m, Special New York Express, over Air Line; arrives at Toledo 540 p m, Cleveland 1010 p m; Buffalo4 am.
9 12 pm, Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo
240 a m; Cleveland, 7 05 a m; Buffalo, 1 10 p m.
4 SO and 4 pm, Way Freight.
GOING WEST.
9 43 am, Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte 3 35 a m, Chicago 6 am.
5 OS am,Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 50 am; Chicago 8 20 am.
4 SO p m. Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5 40; Chicago, 8 pm.
8 03 a m, Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte 9 05 a m; Chicago, 11 30 a. m.
7 30 and 8 03 a m, Way Freight.
F. C. Raff, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup’t West Div., Chicago.
CHARLES PAINE. Gen’l Supt.
Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago
RAILWAY.
\ ■ ■
Time Table, in Effect MAY 19, 1878.
Going	North.	STATIONS	Going South.	
1.40 a.m.	3.20 p.m.	Arrive	Leave. - - Michigan City, - -	9.35 a.m	8.05 p.m.
12.55 “	2.30 “	- - - - LaPorte, - - -	10.25 “	8.55 “
12.28 “	2.08 “	- - - Stillwell, - - -	10.45 “	9.20 “
12.07 “	1.44 “	- - - - Walkerton, - - -	11.10 “	9.47 “
11.27 p.m.	l.<>7 “	- - - Plymouth, - -	11.47 “	10.33 “
10.31 “	12.10 “	- - - - Rochester, - - -	12.40 p.m	11.32 “
9.55 “	11.26 a.m.	- - - - Denver, - - -	1.17 “	1212 a.m.
9.25 “	10.47 “	- - - - Peru, ... -	2.00 “	12 40 “
9.03 “	10.26 “	- - Bunker Hill, - - -	2.22 “	1.01 “
8.33 “	9.56 “	- - Kokomo Junction, - -	3 00 “	135 “
	9.13 “	- - - - Tipton,- - - -	3.38 “	216 “
7.10 “	8.30 “	- - - Noblesville, - - -	4.25 “	3 02 “
6.10 “	7.25 “	- - Indianapolis, - - -	5.25 “	4.00 “
		- - - - Cincinnati, - - -- - - Louisville, - - - • -	Saint Louis, - - -	10.00 “ 10.45 “ 7.30 a.m	8.15 “ 8.20 “ 5.00 p.m.
PERU & INDIANAPOLIS EXPRESS,
Leave Peru 6.10 a. m, “	“ 9.00 “
- Arrive Indianapolis 9.35 a. m-“	“	12.00 noon.
RETURNING
Leave Indianapolis 12 25 p. m, - - - - Arrive Peru 3.50 p. m. “	“	1110 “	- - -	“	» 2 55a.m.
WOODRUFF’S SLEEPING AND PARLOR COACHES
Through to Indianapolis!
Allowing Passengers the privilege of remaining in Car until a Late Breakfast Hour.
JSTBertlis $1.25- Chairs 50 and 25 cents, according to distance.
F.	P. Wade,	V. T. Malott,
Gen’l. Pass. Agt., Indianapolis. Gen’l. Manager, Indianapolis
CHICAGO, ALTON AND ST. LOUIS AND CHICAGO
KANSAS CITY AND DENVER SHORT LINES.
Union Depo , West side, near Madison street bridge; Ticket offices at Depot and 122 Randolph street.
Arrive. Leave.
Kansas City . nd Denver Express via Jack-
sonville, IL., and Louisiana, Mo.....3	40 pm 12 30 pm
Springfield and St. Louis Ex. via Main Line.8 00 pm 9 00 am Springfield, St. Louis and Texas Fast Ex. via
Main Line............................7 30 am	9	00	pm
Peoria Day Express.....................3 40 pm	9	00	am
Peoria, Keokuk and Burlington Ex.......7 30 am	9	00 pm
Chicago and Paducah Railroad Express...8 00 pm	9	00 am
Streator,Wenona, Lacon and Washington Ex 3 40 pm	12	30 pm
Joliet Accommodation................  .9	20	am	5	00	pm
J. C. McMullin, Gen. Manager. J. Charlton, Gen. Pass. Agt.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	483
Michigan Central Railway
Time Table-Noy. 11. 1877.
	♦Mail	•Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	tAtlantic Express.	tNight Express. -9 00 p m h 15 “ 12 35 am 2 17 “ 4 45 “ 8 00 “
Lv. Chicago	 “ Mich. City.. “ Niles 		7 00 a.m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p.m 3 45 “ 6 48 “	9 00 a.m 11 10 “ 12 15 p.m 140 “ 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 12 “ 10 00 “	5 15 p.m 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 26“ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	
“ Kalamazoo.. “ Jackson						
			•Jackson Express.		
					
	•Mail	•Day Express.		tPacific Express.	^Evening Express.
			5 40 a.m 8 40 “ 4 45 p.m 4 30 a.m 6 30 “ 7 55 “ 10 30 “		
Lv. Detroit	 “ Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo.. “ Niles	 “ Mich. City.. Ar. Chicago		7 00 a.m 10 20 “ 1 13 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 55	9 35 a m 12 15 p.m 2 38 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “		9 50 p.m 12 45 a.n 2 53 “ 4 24 “ 5 47 “ 8 00 “	6 20 p m 9 40 “ 12 35 a m 2 38 “ 4 15 “ 6 45 “
Wiles and Hoxitli Bend Division.
•GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 630 p.m. “ N. Dame— 8 52 •*	6 38 “
Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	715 “
•GOING SOUTH.
Lv. Niles—	7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m
“ N. Dame— 740 “	448 “
Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
•Sunday excepted. tDaily. ^Saturday and Sunday excepted.
Henby G. Wentwobth,	H. B. Lbdyabd,
G.	P. & T. A., Chicago, Ill. Gen’l Manager, Detroit, Mich.
G. L. Elliott, Agent, South Bend, Ind.
C. & N.-W. LINES.
THE CHICAGO & NORTH-WESTERN RAILWAY
Embraces under one management the Great Trunk Railway Lines of the WEST and NORTH-WEST, and, with Its numerous Branches and connections, forms the shortest and quickest route between Chicago and all points in Illinois, Wisconsin, Northern Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Nebraska, California and the Western Territories. Its
OMAHA. AND CALIFORNIA LINE
Is the shortest and best route between Chicago and all points in Northern Illinois, Iowa, Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, California, Oregon, China, Japan and Australia. Its
CHICAGO, ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS LINE
Is the short line between Chicago and all points in Northern Wisconsin and Minnesota, and for Madison, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Duluth, and all points in the Great Northwest. Its
LA CROSSE, WINONA AND ST. PETER LINE
is the best route between Chicago and La Crosse, Winona-Rochester, Owatonna, Mankato. St. Peter, New Ulm, and all points in Southern and Central Minnesota. Its
GREEN BAY AND MARQUETTE LINE
Is the only line between Chicago and Janesville, Watertown, Fond du Lac, Oshkosh, Appleton, Green Bay, Escanaba, Negaunee, Marquette, Houghton, Hancock and the Lake Superior Country. Its
FREEPORT AND DUBUQUE LINE
Is the only route between Chicago and Elgin, Rockford, Freeport, and All points via Freeport. Its
CHICAGO AND MILWAUKEE LINE
Is the old Lake Shore Route, and is the only one passing between Chicago and Evanston, Lake Forest, Highland Park, Waukegan, Racine, Kenosha and Milwaukee.
PULLMAN PALACE DRAWING-ROOM CARS
are run on all through trains of this road.
New York Office, No. 415 Broadway; Boston Office, No. 5 State Street; Omaha Office, 245 Farnham Street; San Fran, cisco Office, 121 Montgomery Street; Chicago Ticket Offices-62 Clark Street, under Sherman House ; 75 Canal, corner Madison Street; Kinzie Street Depot, corner W. Kinzie and Canal Streets; Wells Street Depot, corner Wells and Kinzie Streets.
For rates or information not attainable from your home ticket agents, apply to
W. H. Stbnnett,	Marvin Hughitt,
Gen. Tasa. Ag’t, Chicago. Gen. Manager, Chicago.
Pittsburgh, Ft.Wayne & Chicago
AND PENNSYLVANIA R. R. LINE.
CONDENSED TIME TABT.E.
NOV. 10, 1878.
TRAINS LEAVE CHICAGO DEPOT, Cor. Canal and Madison Sts. (West Side). On arrival of trains from North and Southwest.
GOING WEST.
	No.l, Fast Ex.	No. 7, Pac. Ex.	No .3, Night Ex	No. 5, MaH.
Pittsburgh,	Leave	11.45 p.m.	9.00 A.M.	1.50 P.M.	6.00 A-M.
Rochester,............	1253 a.m.	10.12 “	255 “	745 a
Alliance,.				3.10 “	12.50 p.m.	5 35 “	1100 “
Orrville,	'		4.50 “	2.26 “	7.13 “	1255 pm
Mansfield,		7.00 “	440 “	920 “	3.11 “
Crestline,’.	Arrive	7.30 “	5.15 “	9.45 “	3.50 «
Crestline,	Leave	7.50 a.m.	5.40 p.m.	9.55 p.m.	•
Forest,.			9.25 “	7.35 “	11.25 “	
Lima,.’.		10.40 “	9.00 “	12 25 a M.	
Ft.Wayne,		1.20 p.m.	11.55 “	2.40 “	
Plymouth,		3.50 “	2 46 a.m.	4.55 “	
Chicago,		Arrive	7.00 “	6.00 “	7.58 “	
GOING EAST.
	Ko. 4, Night Ex.	No. 2, Fast Ex.	No. 6, Atlan.Ex.	No 8, Mail.
Chicago,	Leave	9.10 p.m.	8.30 A.M.	5.15 P.M.	
Plymouth,		2.46 a.m.	11.48 “	8.55 “	
Ft". Wayne,		6.55 “	2.25 p.m.	11.30 “	
Lima,		8.55 “	4.20 “	1.30 A.M.	
Forest,		10.10 “	5.27 “	233 “	
Crestline,	Arrive	11.45 “	6.55 “	4.05 “	
Crestline,	Leave	12.05 p.M.	7.15 p.m.	4.15 A.M.	6 On A.v.
Mansfield,				12.35 “	7.45 “	4.55 “	655 “
Orrville,...............	2.26 “	9.38 “	7.00 “	915 “
Alliance,.			4.00 “	11.15 “	9.00 “	11 on «
Rochester,		6.22 “	1.20 A.M.	11.06 “	
Pittsburgh	Arrive	7.30 “	2.30 “	12.15 p.m	3.30 “
Trains Nos. 3 and 6 run Daily. Train No. 1 leaves Pittsburgh daily except Saturday. Train No. 4 leaves Chicago daily except Saturday. All others daily except Sunday.
THIS IS THE ONLY LINE
That runs the celebrated Pullman Palace Cam from Chicago to Baltimore, Washington City, Philadelphia and New Ycrk without change. Through tickets for sale at all principal ticket offices at the lowest current rates.
F. 8. MYEBS. G. P & T. A.
INMAN LINE.
ROYAE MAIL STEAMERS.
NEW YOBK to QUEENSTOWN and LIVEBPOOL, Every Thursday or Saturday.
Tons.
CITY OF BERLIN, 5491 CITY OF RICHMOND, 4607 CITY OF CHESTER, 4566 CITYOF MONTREAL, 4490
Tons.
CITY OF BRUSSELS, 3775
CITY OF NEW YORK, 3500
CITY OF PARIS, 3080
CITY OF BROOKLYN, 2911
These magnificent steamers, built in watertight compartments, are among the strongest, largest and fastest on the Atlantic.
For rates of passage and other information, apply to
JOHN G. HALE, Agent.
15 Broadway, New York.
Or to JACOB WILE,
Foreign Exchange and Paeeage Agent, oct5-tf	ILa Forte, Indiana.
484-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
W. S. Golsen.	D. R. Mullins.
GOLSEN & MULLINS,
Dealers in Chapin & Gore’s
Native and imported wines.
FINEST IMPORTED CIGARS.
W. E. Cor. LaSalle & Monroe Sts.
Henby Styles, Manages.	Cliioago.
fie-ly
EDWARD BUYSSE,
DEALER IN
Watches, Clocks,
JEWELRY.
All Kinds of Engraving Done.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
A MAN
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUNTRY, WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP, THAT THE
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC R. R.
IS THE GREAT CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THE EAST AND THE WEST!

I
Eh
H
P 0 00
Its main line runs from Chicago to Council Bluffs and Omaha, passing through Joliet, Ottawa, La Salle, Geneseo, Moline, Rock Island, Davenport, West Liberty, Iowa City, Marengo, Brooklyn, Grinnell, and Des Moines, (the capitol of Iowa) with branches from Bureau Junction to Peoria; Wilton Junction to Muscatine, Washington, Fair* field, Eldon, Belknap, Centreville, Princeton, Trenton, Gallatin, Cameron, Leavenworth and Atchison; Washington to Sigourney, Oskaloosa and Knoxville; Keokuk to Farmington, Bonaparte, Bentonsport, Independent, Eldon, Ottumwa, Eddyville. Oskaloosa, Pella, Monroe, and Des Moines; Des Moines, to Indianola and Winterset; Atlantic to Andubon and Avoca to Harlan. This is positively the only Railroad which owns, controls and operates a through line between Chicago and Kansas.
This Company own and control their Sleeping Cars, which are inferior to none, and give you a double berth; between Chicago and Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, or Atchison for Two Dollars and Fifty Cents; and a section for Five Dollars, while all other lines charge between the same points. Three Dollars for a double berth, and Six Dollars for a section.
What will please you most will be the pleasure of enjoying your meals, whilepassing over the beautiful prairies of Dlinois and Iowa, in one of our magnificent Dining and RestaurantCars that accompany all through Express Trains. You get an entire meal, as good as is served in any first-class hotel, for seventy-five cents; or you can order what you like, and pay for what you get.
Appreciating the fact that a majority of the people prefer separate apartments for different purposes, (and the enormous passenger business of this line warranting it.) we are pleased to announce that this Company runs its PALACE SLEEPING CARS for Sleeping purposes, and its PALACE DINING CARS for Kating purposes. One other great feature of
our Palace Cars is a SMOKING SALOON where youcan enjoy your “Havana” at all hours of the day.
Magnificent Iron Bridges span the Mississippi and Missouririvers at all points crossed bXthis line, and transfers are avoided at Council Bluffs, Leavenworth and Atchison, connections being made in Uniondepots. -
THE PRINCIPAL R. R. CONNECTIONS OF THIS GREAT THROUGH LINE ARE AS FOLLOWS :
AtCHlCAGO, with all diverging lines for the East and South.
At ENGLEWOOD, with the Lake Shore & Michigan SouthernandPittsburg, Ft.Wayne & Chicago R. Rds.
At WASHINGTON Heights, with Pittsburg, Cincinnati & St. Louis R. R.
At LA SALLE, with Dlinois Central R. R.
AtPEOBlA, withPoP- & J.; P..L. & D-; L B. & W.; DI. Midland: and T., P. & W. Railroads.
At Rock Island, with Western Union R. R. and Rock Island & Peoria Railroads.
At Davenpobt, with the Davenport & NorthWestern R. R.	'
At West Liberty, with the Burlington, Cedar Rapids & Northern B. R.
At GRINNELL, with Central R. R. of Iowa.
AtDESMOINES, withD. M. & Ft. DodgeR. R.
At Council Bluefs, with Union Pacific R. R.
At OMAHA, with B. & Mo. R. R. R. (in Neb.)
AtCoLUMBUS JuNcnqN, with Burlington, Cedar Rapids & Northern R. R.
At OTTUMWA, with Central R. R. of Iowa; St. Louis,Kan. City&Northern and C.,B. & Q. R. Rds.
At KEOKUK, with Toledo, Peoria and Warsaw; Wabash, and St. Louis, Keokuk & N.-W.R. Rds.
At Beverly, with Kan. City, st. J. & c. B. r. r.
At ATCHISON, with Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe; Atchison & Neb. and Cen. Br. Union PaciflcR. Rds.
At LEAVENWORTH, with K. P. and K. Cen. R. Rds.
PALACE CARS are ran through to PEOBIA, DES MOINES, COUNCIL BLUFFS, ATCHISON and LEAVEHVOBTH:
Tickets via this Line, known as the “Great Bock Island Boute,” are sold by all Ticket Agents In the United States and Canada,
For Information not obtainable at yow homo ticket Office, address,
JL. KIMBALL,
■y Gen’I Superintendent,
E. ST. JOHN,
_ Geu'l Tkt, and Pass’gr Agt, Chicago,.IlL
